( ___________________________--c,--,--------:-,0---:--~~-"'.'""""-,....-;o-:"'~~~....,..~,~,~--........~~-----­
VOICE 
University of Notre ·Dame 

Vol YNo.6 page one Mav· rn. IH63 

Southern Comfort And A Geodesic Tara ?? 
This Friday evening the so­clal life o( Notre Dame Seniors will culminate ·in Southern Com­fort, hospitality and surrouna-. ings. Theme for the Senior Ball, to be held in the Stepan Center, will be "Tara" -the memorable andlegendary Georgia mansion of "Gone With the Wi~d'' fame. Un­fortunately Rhett and Scarlett will notbeabletoattend the gathering, 
. out the evening "will' certainly riot C lack any lustre ·for the 600 exci­ted couples in attendance. It is difficult to conceive of the stately Tara being molded into the modern structure of the Stepan Center, but General Chairman Dan 
Baldino, andhis Senior Ball Com­mittee aredoing an admirable job in recreating that scene. Imme­diately upon -entering, the Senior c·ouple will ·pass through a facade of the Tara Mansion, and will then ::::-ae, spread before them, a pict­ure-postcard setting, including a .,mallpatlo,·apond, anample dan­cing space, and a reflecting pool complete with fountains. Provi­ding the smooth Southern sounds 
will be the Glenn Miller Orches­tra, under .the direction of, and featuring, Ray .McKinley. The 
band will play all iis famous ar­rangements from :i specially-con­structedveranda in backof the re-· flection pool, and will send its dul­cet music throughout the dimly­llt, romantic Tara. 
Relgnin~-~ver .this pictur­esque scene will be a familiar face and queen to those_ Seniors who at­
tended their Freshman Formaland Junior Prom. The queen is Miss Marilou Pierson from Chicago, a student at the Loretto Heights Col­lege for Women in Colorado. 
SENATB___ .JI.I_QOSES 

.. ·--­

Dave Ellis' cabinet was cho­sen by the Se,1ate last week. The new Vice-President is TomO'Bri­en, Secretary is Paul Meagher, Treasurer is Larry Beshel. 
Stay members elected to next year's Seni:~'=' w0 r?. Tom Fuller, Jim Harrir,gton Larry Kavanaugh Mike ··cook, .omrien, Meagher, .111d Beshel. · · -• ~-' ' •····•. 
Outstanding Senator awards .for·the past year were given to .Tom O'Brien, John Gearcn, with 
Pete Clark and Mike Cook tiedfor 
third. 
•-.. -......_.. 
...... ­

The Senior Weekend will clo­se with Father Hesburgh celebra­ting 10 o'clock Mass in Sacred Heart. There will be a Commu­nion Breakfast in the dining hall following Mass. 

MARILOU PIERSON 
* * *
* * * "* * * 

ewRegistration Procedure Used 
A definite· attempt is be­ing made to ensure that students will get the courses they pre-re­gister for. As Mr. Leo Corbaci says, . "to _.preserve the course a student pre-registers for, · we are using check-marked courses. \I/hen a course has a'check be­side it in the schedule · booklet, a pre-punched class card for that course will be in the packet when you pick it up in September." 
It is hoped· tha• this new in­novation, which is the only cha­nge in the reg; stration procedure, will keep these courses open for the people who signed up for them. 
The checkcourses are an a­pproach to completecomputer sch­eduling, , which may come in the future, says Corbaci. "Regard­less what you may think, compu­
ter scheduling has a definite ad­vantageofbeing the fairest way to put studentsinto a course. Every­one is given a fair crack. 11 
In the 1963-1964 fall semes­ter, the computor will only be us­ed to·process class cards, lists, a­nd directories, not scheduling. 
w.. No registration out of turn will be -allowed for anyone in the Fall. "Even ·Athletes, ..those with jobs, special health cases; etc.;, will have to register at their reg­ular time. " 
Admiral Anderson Wins Laetare Medal 
Last Sunday, at the annual Presidential Review of the R. 0. ­
T. C. units, Admiral George W. 
Anderson, Chief of Naval Oper­.1tions, received the Laetare Me­dal for 1963 from Father Hes­burgh. 
Each year, the Laetare Me­dal is presented to an outstanding Catholic Layman. Admiral Ander­son characterized the eighty rJ-_ cipients us Christians whose lives were .1.Jase_d (on,. Qod'.s __will, __and . whose .. charilcters . had as their foundation hon-~r, .duty, integrity,'
I

and dedication. ' Admiral Anderson pointed out the inherent dangers of a wo­rld in which the gift of understan­ding "canbe used to create a par­adise .or a holocaust. Man no longer has time to stop and re­flect in an age of missiles and so­nic aircraft. There is a need for a Christian approach to the mo­dern world. It is up to the Chris­tian to hear the voice of the·spir­it, and to let God's will rise a­bove the turmoil of modern me­diocrity and expediency. In a wo-· rld of.selfishness and material­ism, .it should be the goal of the Christian to serve God, and in do­ing thathe will serve his country. God wants us to live in peace and charity, which are the. goals the. United States stands for. Admiral Anderson accepted• 
the award modestly, but proudly. He did not consider it an award, but rather a reminder. ''This is what you thought me; this I will try to be." 
*·
* * 

A PHONE PER ROOM POSSIBLE IN 1965 
Beginningnext fall, the No­tre Dame telephone system will. undergo a series of changes. The first ofthese will be ready for the opening of school in September. This will consist primarily of the additionof a large number of dial phones to the campus. It .is the adm:nistration's hope that there will be a dial phone on every flo­or of the halls, and wherever else they are needed: 
This is the first step to­wards the administration's goal of adding phones to every room: This objective will probablybe re­alized within the next two years, and if St. Mary's agrees to adopt a similar plan, both schools will ·have phones in every room by 
1965. . . 
WHERE THE GIRLS ARE ? 
Last weekend's first annual Spring Open House had every­thing to please the male heart: football, folk songs, and, most of all, the 168, 000 girls who unfortunatly again refused the enticing allurementsofaNotre Dame holiday. The Open House was undoubt­edly a success ~ntertainment-wise but to the Notre I:'''lle masses a failure socially. 
The weekend began Friday evening wah the Freshman Formal In LaFortune Student Center. Over 250 r.ouples dances to the the ­me San Francisco by Night, complete with cable car, Golden Gate Bridge, and a fisherman's wharf. Warren Covington and the Tom­my Dorsey Band provided the entertainment for the Freshman and their dates. 
Spring Open House was formally inaugurated at noon on the next day with receptions for..the girls at the various halls. Enter­prising entertainment committees_ provided music and food to plea­se the feminine taste. Sorin Hall as usual went all out in their in­formal but. entertaining Porch program, with the Apres Singers, a talented freshman folk song group, and the Nightlighters, a fresh­man rock'n roll band. Much to somc·experienced upperclassmen's dismay_ the _entertainment and cordiality did not accomplish its av­owed purpose of alluring the girl. As of noon there were few girls. 
Saturday afternoon of course saw the Old Timer's game in the ·stadiwn. The "old men" showed the strain of years as the deter­mined varsity rolled over them 47-0. An Engineering chariot race provided the most unusual and un_dpubtedly the most bizarre half­time entertainment of the year. Following the game Sorin Porch once more took the spotlight, First to appear were the Four Fifths a barbershop quartet-from the Notre Dame glee club. The Fifths (the ones on stage) entertained with harmonizing renditions of such favorites as IIConey Island Baby" which won them a five minute o­vation when they appeared ·on Long Island. Notre n·ame's favorite folk song group, the Four Winds, were at their singing and satiri­cal best with the addition of Johnny Bill. Needless to say, the pop­ular favorite of the day was.-the anti-. drink, womc~ and cigarette song which harmonized so beautifully with the melodious clamor­
. ings of the Sacred Heart bells. 
At five o'clock the boxlunches were...cJistributed and the crowd relaxed to the antics of a few of the more notable football players obviously weary from the lo~g spring workouts. 
There is no wort! for the Clancy Brothers but great. With their brogue, sharp wit, and hearty singing, they brought laugh-
t~r_ll!!d-~ears t<! t~e eyes ,C>(many an Irishman, and_eve_11 _t)le o~7_"-"·'---"''·" cassional ''subway" Mick. Although to the-Englishman arid the Pro­testant they were ribald and rlsque, there is no doubt that they liv­
ed up to their promise of "Hearty and Hellish" with such tunes as . the "Tinker" and "Brennan on the Moor." The Clancy Brothers and ·Tommy Makem, "I'm from North Ireland and like it, 11 are al­ways wel·come at Notre Dame. _ 
Though the temperature was a bit chilly, the outdoor mixers took place as scheduled behind St. l\fichael Laundry where the ligh­ting was dim enough to suit the most discriminating of tastes. The· music was fast, but unfortunately, once again, there was an acute shortage of girls. Not even St. Mary's in full force would have as­suaged the e·mbarrassingly one-sided ralio. The navy midshipmen were in much better situation that evening when they entertained their dates at the Navy Formal. 
Spring Open House finished with an impressive fireworks dis­·play behind the tennis courts. One spectator remarked that South Benders haven't seenanythinglike this in ten years. The whole day 
was elaborately and imaginatively planned. It is really unfortunate, 
and perhaps typical,  that the element most essential to its success  
was missing.  
TOM ANDERSON  


China's Policy: atd and H:u_rting 
.. ~>­

On Tuesday evening Profes­sor R. G. Boyd, a visiting politi-. cal science prof from Australia and a noted experton Chinese for­eign affairs lectured to a small "crowd in .tii.'e.· Rockne Memo~ial. lounge. His message . contai~ed both a warning and a note of en­couragement about the· prese-nt. situation ·in Southeast Asia. 'He stated that Red China has volun­tarilyg7>'ne into intellectual isola­tion by establishing a pronounced and open·cleavage with the Soviet Union and has set as its prime ob­jective the complete subjection of all Southeast Asia. ·A strong d·o­mcstic need .stemming from party rivalries has arisen. to strengten their ideology and to present a de­termi!led and po:\Verful image to lhe outside world. So far their as­sault has been extremely succes­sful They have· managed to dis­

solve the government in Laos by indirect aggression, pressure Cambodia and Burma by propa­ganda into a state of fear and co­existence, and demonstrate bythe Indian conflict that they mean bus­iness.. The Western counter moves have been too late, too weak, and too misguided to have any effect. And they have also made some ir­
retrievable mistakes. 



Vol. l No. 6 :\lay 16, 1:JG:l 
Faculty 

With Professor John Logan leavingthe University, many won-· der if negligence on the part of the Administration had anything to do with it. It seems incredible that the University would sit back :mddo not~ing while mrn of its top professors leaves the campus Lo accept anothe1· position.· Actuall;i•, the situation is more complex than it seems to be. Professor Lo.,.an was offered a much higher sal;ry and was offererl the position of head of the English Department at St. l\lary's College iii California. Notre Dame offered ·to match the salary, but could not hope to ma­tch the fringe benefits which St. Mary's was prepared to offer. 
l\lany factors . determine a professor's choice of a college. Among the most important arc climate, educational and research facilities, position, and, of course salary. Particularly among Assis­tant-professo1·s, there' is a prac­tice of moving every four or five years, until they find a college with a combination of these factors attractive to persuade them to set­tle down. Therefore, many of the faculty changes at NotreDame may not be the result of negligence on thepartofthe administration, but rather a natural result of faculty­roulette. ·_ 
Many Notre Dame professors are overburdened, since the num­ber of faculty members has stay­ed the same in the last ten years, while enrollment has increased considerably. In the College of Arts and ~tters, for example, there has been a'decline of 18% .in the n'-;!mber of faculty members while the number of students has increased by 35%. This policy has been particularly evident in the 
. ·. English departmer.t, which is very · fully. ·Dean Burke of the Fresh­
ternativ_e than to go to the Soviet 
weakthis year. Itlostseveral As-man Year of Studies has introdu-
Union. We cannot theorize what 
sistant-professors, and.ii-is said . ced this idea to a limited extent. 
the _results , would be,had th~t~__ 
: _ ____ th-3:t at_.Jeas t_two. of. these men-left.:..;..,_:.~..!!..~r~,.-JJ_sh,9-u Id_cer.tainly .be. 
~uatiori-beenotlierw1se. 
because the University did"'not bo­ 
ther to renew their contracts un­ 
til it was toolate. In an institution  
such as this, it is difficult to be­ 
lieve that faculty contracts must  
·Letters To  
The Editor  
Editors,  
.For the past year, we have.  
. listened to student "leaders" aim-.  
lessly call for resolutions.to our  
proble;ms here. at Notre Dame.  
Purporting to speak to a rather  
generaland nebulous "admini~tra,-.  
tion, nin actuality the.» seemed to  
be t:ryi!lg to be_sure we all kne~  
whatourproblems were. Finally,  
they realized to get anythii:;; -~.;<!,  
:you can't just talk to the air in i­ 
dyllic thoughts, bet must sit down  
withpeople who can change the sit­ 
· uation and rationally work out the  
differences. This, I believe, was  
about a month and half ago when  
the Student. Senate' decided to es­ 
.stablish astudent;..faculty-admini­ 
stration board. Fr. McCarragher  
..certainly gave the Senate every as­ 
surance of Administration support  
in the matter,  
At that time, the. board was  
i I r  directed to submit a report to the students within a month. I have heard ·of _no such report. Did the  
I  Senate members ofthe board ever  
f  call sucha meeting? Did they ever  
!  even select the faculty members  
'  who were to sit on the board? Why  
, is. it that student "leaders" have  
.suchloud voices andyet such weak  
muscles when itcomes down to do­ 
ing some difficult work?. \Vhy hav­ 
n't these questions been asked in·  
· .. the Senate? I,: seems that the Sen­ 
ate in its usual way has started a  
job_ and left it hanl!lne-.  
; .  Tom Vitullo, 113 Lyons-.. , ~-••·•......... ~ ,---------­ 



be renewed every year, with all 
· the uncertainty that this ·implies.' L\s a general rule, the Ad­ministratio11's faculty policy is reasonably enlightened, and is the most progressive program in the 11id-\Vest.. Salaries are .the highest in thel\Iid-Wcst,, and are not a great deal 'Ie'ss ·than the Ivy League. The fact that there are fewer faculty members means that the University can give them high­er salaries and better facilities. Also, Notre Dame has a new health and insurance plan for its profes­sors which is highly regarded in 
academic circles. As a result, 
many 1961 professors will be re­turning to the campus next year, and several new men have been 
hired to strengthen weak pcpart­ments. · 
Your ideas about freedom are not 
~ews Staff: Paul Meagher, Howie. 
the only ideas. "We simply don't 
Smith, Tom Anderson, Rog-

use the same blueprint. " 
er Sobkowiak,. Frank Smith, 
i
.Bill O'Brien, John Riffle, 
EVENTS CALENDAR 

Barry Johansen, John Zusi. l Sports Edito·r: Joseph Ryan 
:sports Staff:  John Borda,  Tom  Date  Time  
·  Doty,· Don Dunphy,  George,  May  
Kruszewski,  Bill 1\liles,  16  2:00 pm  
.Frank  Zirille  l6  
Business a·Ianager:  Edward Orsini  
.-'ldvertising: Louis JGpeway, 1 Bucky O' Conner  16  8;15 pm  
Photography: James Berberet Frank Schleicher '  17 18  10;00 pm· ~:15 pm  
Layout Editors: John Buckly,  18  8:30 pm  
Tom Benson  
19  1;30pm  
19  3;00 pm  
19  3:00 pm  
19  3:00 and  
8:00 pm- 
Mr.  Vitullo,  19  7:30 pm  
Kcvi~ Hart  chose  students  
for his board, .but neither faculty  20  7:15 pm  
. nor administratio!J. With the sup­pression of the "Student Declai:a­ 20  8:00 pm  
tion, '' it, was forgotten -entirely. Ellis -plans to start one, but not  ·21  4:30 pm  
until September.  Ed.  22  . j:10 pm  

Event 

BASEBALL: Notre Dame vs. Michigan . 'CONVOCATION: His Eminence Leo Joseph Cardinal Suenens will receive an honorary degree and deliver address. PLAY: "Five Finger Exercise," pre­sented by the Presbyterian Players. Senior Ball 
_PLAY: "Five Finger Exercise,'·' pre­sented by the Presbyterian Players. PLAY: "The Fantasticks," presented by the University Theatre. Bridge Tournament, all invited. RECITAL: Given by organist Marilyn· l\lason. · · · 
CONCERT: Monte Hill Davis, pianist. MOVIE: "The Magician, " sponsored by Student-Faculty Film Society. POETRY IlEADING: Given by John Logan. . Concert: Given by the South Bend R&!ord­er Society. Mendelsson's "Hymn of Praise," Ave Maria Choral. , · . 
,LECTURE: "Stcrcochcmistery: Its Sig­nificance to the Biologist, '' Dr, Elie!. Student-Faculty Coffee Hour. 
IIHss II : Do you feel there is ev­
er a possibility of renewing re­
lations with the United States? .Q._: I would be happy to speak with 
representatives from your co:m­
try. As to the conditions -the fine 
points -Icanmakcnopredictions. 
Miss II : Is the recent exchange of 
prisoners a start in this direction? _:C y es. 
Miss II : Would you be willing to send the Soviet troops now on Cu­ban soil home, in order to renew relations with the United States? 
.Q._: They arenot troops. They are 
technicians that tc:ich my people ----------------1 
to fight and use weapons. As long 
as Cuba feels the danger of war, 
they will stay. 
l\Iiss II : Can you be neutral or 
Western in the future? .Q._: The ideal is not neutrality, the 
ideal is peace. When all count­
ries are made equal there will be 
no neutralism. 
Comments by Senators Kea­t__i~~..!!ng_!!_umphrcy fs>J.loV?:~d,._,_·___ 
**** 

The revolution has ·not been as Castro promised, but the ques­tion now iswhetherCastrocangive Cubans the right of free determi­nation under the present'circums:.. tances. The answer appears to be r,o. With the unstable equilib­rium a free election might only bring the situation from bad to wo­rse; the people-are not ready for it, and it might only see the rise of another Communist regime. 
.Befo!'.£'. negotiations are be.= gun, the U. S. expects Cuba to be­gin acting as a Western nation, butwhat chance have we givenher? We have forced Cuba to turn to Russia with sugar exports, and increased the alienation by oppo­sing her importation ofwheat from 
Armed Force ·Di:iy 

,\FD 1%3 
We arc pleased to report That a superior number Of highly trained, Superbly equipped, Finely coordinated, Incredibly allied, Invading troops . Have carried the day lnspite of one soldier From Company Gray Who, defying orders And plain good taste, Left his detachment To sit on the sands Near some Red Sea Assembling and disassembling One breech loading, Gas operated, Semi-automatic, And (according to the report Of one forward observer) Utlet'ly untried 
l\1-14 rifle. 
THOMAS CULLEN 
MOVIE CALENDAR 

,...r,~1'0-v'""i:-e---------P-l_a_c""t-. 
"Long Day1 s Journey Avon Into Night11 
"The Yellow Canary"Colfax 
11 Criti~'s Choice"  Granada  
"H.ercules and the  Stat  
Captive Women"  

Canada. Ifwe reversed these pol­isies wouldn't we aid them to er:.. feet total independence from Mos­cow? 
\Vhat of the question·of mas:.. tery in Cuba? Certainly it is now only a sattelite of Moscow, and Castro is only ·a figurehead. But if/Castro:wer_e economically free 
--~~~~-~ga}l}st_J!lY.asJ.9..1},_hL....;.:._· might be willing to throw Kru.Sh"'. chev out of Cuba. It is olear that he wants more than anything to be his own boss, and he could hard­ly expect miUtary reprisal from Russia so close to the U.S.. The question is simply one of initia­tive. Certainly Castrohas been of­fensive, but the only hope for a better settlement is for us to of­fer solutions. Castro cannot take the· initiative except by putting himself at loggerheads with both Kennedy and Krushchev. Only Ken­neclv can tak0 tlw :r,ili.,iiv.• ,,..,: 
-with his ec;onom1c ana pouuca1 blockade, he seems very unwil:­ling. This policy must be changed 
, l j 

if any progress is,to be made. .,l 
*
* I ) 
1' 
I 

The University, then, cannot be accused of gross negligence or bacl·wardncss in its faculty policy. There is only one particularly glaring weakness, and that is the lackofstudent evaluation. No mat­ter what they know about a mnn, the Administration carinot· ade­quately evaluate a professor with­out expressions of student opinion. If they find that the students think highly of a professor, they should special pains to keep him here. If they find that the students dislike 
a certain professor, they can en­courage him to go elsewhere. 
Studentevalua.tionwouldha.ve to be kept impersonal, becmi'se a the potential cruelty of personal evaluation. One suggestion would be "course evaluation,·• in which the students would be able to pass judgment indirectly on a profes­sor, while helping each depart­
ment plan Hs courses most fruit-


What isyour present impre­ssion of Fidel Castro, a bearded maniac, an unintelligent mob-ex­citing army sergeant? These no­
tions would have. been quickly dis­pelled if you had seen the intor­view of Dr: Castro on ABC tele­vision last Friday. Herc is the substance of his remarks: Miss Howard : Dr. Castro, whv do 
J 

you export revolutions in Latin A­
·merica? Castro: On the contrary, it is the other way around. We send no weapons but weapons are being sent here. "Revolutions cannot be exported. "Where the situation is right a revolution will arise, We do, however, export propaganda as does the United States. l\liss H: Would you have remained neutral had the U. S. not closed its doors on you .in 1956? Q..: It is true.that Cuba had no al­
applied to the r·est of the Uriiver.: sity as soon·as possible. 
* * * 

,--­
VOICE 
John J. Gearen -Editor 

Features Editor:· Kelly Morris· 
,Features Staff:. Thomas Bren­
nan, Thomas Cullen, Rick Farrell, AlanaMcCrattan, Grover Nix, Jack Quine, Dave. Savageau,. Greg . . Theissen, ·Tom Vitullo ._:News Editoz:: William :.rcDonn)d 
l\1iss H : Dr. C_astro; during the 
revolution you promised -free e­
lections and ·an opposition party. 
\VhY haven't t11ese been fulfilled? 
.Q._: Since the revolution, condi­
tions have been made such by out­
side powers that we consider our­
• self in, o;_· close to, a state of war. Under these conditions we cannot have free elections. Miss H : \Vhy was the revolution so different than you promised? .Q._: We made a revolution to aid Cubans. Since then, we have ·done 
much to bring about agrarian and 
urban relief. We have also made : large steps in wiping out illitera-' cy. Things have been changed. 
Place 
Cartier Field Grotto 
1st Presbyterian Church Stepan Center 
lst,Presbytcrinn , Church Washington Hall 
Student Certer Sacred Heart' Church 
O'Laughlin Engineering 
Little Theatre 
Mem. Presbyterian Church O'Laughlin 
Biology Aud. 
402 O'Shaugness~y 
. l 1 j 
l 
' 
'' 
' 

I 
I 
j: 

Vol. l No. 6 page 3 May 16, 1963 
''. \· 'I 

------------'--------------------------------------------------···-·----~---­
"ARENA'63" 
PARTIAL SUCCESS 
Not qulle sealed off from a 

roof-roaring rain and a sopping 
and screaming pcurile leviathan 
or a Notre Dame mob, the Speech 
and Drama Department of-St. Ma­
.. ~y:s·:coll,cge px:~s~nt,cd "Arena 63" 
. last ·Thursday night. , i ·, ·: -~TI11:'iirq't sccti,on oqhc ev­. eni_ng was a.colleclion.. _of scenes 
plucked Jrom American . plays, 
showfng "WQm~. '.' The attempt to 
tie the~ tog1:th~r., t]:irou;l_l tpe use 
of three ,narrators was an ill­
wrought plan.'' The narration was 
frequently rna\Vkish. and syrrupy.
It gave th_e. production a certain · 
gra(1e schogl didacticism. The fac­ile 'Letween-scenes su~maries. of .~~e ,''points'' intruded, .were some­~imes. ipsulting,. 1.mmetimcs-ab­
&m;d: 
•,The best of the scenes were those from Wilder'&-Skin of Our Tcetl\, Patrick's Hasty Heart, 'and LillianHellman's Children's Hour. In this last, Gail Boller.nnd Rob-' in.Keyw<irth showed fine timing and good control. Nick Frost redeem­ed;hlµiself. in. the Patrick. piece. The failure of several ofthe other scenes was,noL .s9 __much lhe fault of the actors· ~ just the notion of pr.eflentlng little.. snips of larger works.:,The. result ,of.the lack of temporal space for · character 
buildiogwasmoststrlking inStre-etcar-Named -Desire,. which.•gave a flat and .false view of Blanche,, showed the. lie. without the truth of the whole play, _ ;fhe_.. second_part of the e:ve­d b h ning was a one-actcome y y Jo n Mortimer. What . Shall .We Tell Caroline1 · The· play• is verbally
lively, •and has• a: good deal· of 
charm. Jack Pehler perhaps over~ 
boomed his role·as the headmas­
ter of the Spartan. British boys' 
school; but' aham ham~ing 'the part of a buffoon' makes distine­·-:-tions·tedious; Mary Lou' Rogers was·con~lncirig as the Wffe: joah Mikulka's'roleas Caiolinii'had ~1--· rriosina' Iihes· ~d. in Hs way, "\Va~ perhhps the. mo·st 'difficult. 'She has, howe'ver~· Uie abilftyto ~'si.:. 
· · · -· · ; · · ·· · · · · lerit meaningfully --and without pantomine either. The comic cat­alys,t ofthe .action was. T~ny, de:-· lig~tfully piay'ed 'tiy I)avid. Carlin,
I '.fhe l_anky ~ctor cha~ged his ca_:, · · · , · · · ·· · · · : · 
vortings with dozens oflaughs, al:-...
i 
I ways with-asecret_sadness,thougl1 !' to make his; serious. lines stick'. . I Toe p,lay. was· a well-chosen well-:­played success. ._.
I 
KELLY MORRIS •. 
...• 1 . 
. ··,.. 

'~The Two Natural 
by Dr. Edward J. Cronin 

Much inkhas been spilled, many fine and elaborate plans have been devised and re-devised, and many a generation of students-
i. and·of ·faculty members -·have come ·_ and gone and still the ques­tion remains: "how to improve student-faculty relations?" 
! • The question, of course, _has re_levanc~ only to the relation­
! . ship outside the classroom. ·Nothing· can improve ~he relationship· between them inside the classroom except good teaching "and good learning. :And.possibly, also, a good breakfast. I am not so surc,i · either, that anything can improve this extra-curricular relation­ship. For what, after all, does such a relationship mean? It does not mean improving the teaching; this only the teacher can do. It does not mean improving the learning; this only the student can do. ·It doesn't mean adding. p.a. systems and green blackboards: this, only the Administration, .Department of the· Budgets, can do. It only means t~ar the· professor, if reserved and retiring, should become a personality guy.--And these things no one can do. All I'am saying is 'that.if the improvement of student-faculty relationships means amore frequent gathering together outside the room for;social, not academic purposes; then. let us abandon this problem ruid attack one much easier and more capable of solution, like "WhattodoahoutCuber. "·1·am,sorry I have to be so pessimis­tic, but the experience I have had with this problem does not allow 
me to be otlierwtse. · . . . . -. -. ·.. · . . Over myyenrs.here·atNotre.D;une, I have several times been asked by students: to}vork with them fo improve student-faculty re­
l 

lations; mostr~centlyihave_worked\vith -AlKillflea. Besides being one of lh.e finest studentitand young men I bav_e ever 'known, Al has spent many hours and given a' lot of thollght to this problem. Of course, I do not want to speak for him•;. and be may feel more opti­mistic. I don't know. But if intelligence and hard work can move 
1 mountains, then mountains should be on their way. I don't think they are. Iknowregularcoffeehours for students 
. . . and faculty havebeenarrangedforthe faculty room in O'Shaugnes­sy', ·but if ~eary clumps of students on one side of the room and 
, weary clumps of teachers on the other side,· glumly holding coffee . cups and warily checking their watches is "relationship",then Ipre­
fer the warm homey atmospher_e of~ lecture room filled with one hundred fifty students spoken at by a public address system. Be­cause it is not until a teacher Is willing to open his home to a stu.a dentinhis class":""" justas he would be-willing.to open his to a home:_ 

ten lines. In_spiteofthis, ,hls_poem 
:about the. death of the useless old soldier, as well ashis "academic" verses·;._ ~.-im'Presslv~. •. 
·Elyse Meyer and Robin Keywo~th in·s~ene from II The Skin of Our Teeih ... 
TOM CULLEN 

; sick e·xch:inge ~tudent frcim' Upper Nigeria or Outer Mongolia --not until then canwe say there is any real extra-curricular relationship 
· · · · 
between the..two natural enemies. . . Now I know all kinds of teachers --human, near-human, and sub:-human. For the mo!jt part, too, they are very fine people -­just like ordinary people that do brain surgery and operate busses. l For the most part, too, they are good people --warm; human; un.:.-: I derstanding. But-many of my ~olleagues' .. the b~st of the best, sim-• . :j:-:pl.}'. are not the _type that can unbend with iheirs}udents. -:Maybe they -· " are bashful; maybe they cannot shuck their professorial husks when a student is near. Many students, I am sure; cifunot act freely and natµrally w_ith a "prof" in the neighborhood. At l~ast, :the students 
. . . . and teachers who can meet together without embar~sment on one side and condescensi~n·on theother are ~are. Given the two natures of the t;vo beasts it .canhardly be otherwise. When, naturally and . 
j without"art!ficial"pressures and inducements, the two can meet t0.: . ' · gether outside the classroom, they will. When they cannot, the most ! . elaborate pains and strategies'will not brin_g them together. . 
. . . · And is it n_qt said that, sli_m enough though. the chances are of· · , the.two. coming together as peo_ple who should be interested in each ' .. other, the chan_ces are becoming even slimmer? When a man who·
I c_ould me.et with his students outside the classroom had only twen-· ' ty' ·or thirty_ students to know_, there was some chance of even a rich
! · . ~d abiqing frien~ship being.born. But now, classes of one hundred or everi niore students is not uncommon. . ~d. isn't it? That when student..:faculty relatiomih.ips are. ·. most" needed they are least _accessible. . 
. . ,. . . .. ' ' . 
Prize W-mning Poet Reads His ·works 
On ~he evening of May 8, in 

the steaming amphitheatre of the · Student Center, Pulilzer Prize-. winning poet W. D. Snodgrass read some of his· poems lllld'proved to :be a most engaginghost. The ~us­tachioed ·poet;. who said of: him-

Marilyn Petroff, Dave Van Treese, and Sean Griffin• · rehearse for" The Fantastics" · 
-The FANTASTICKS. 
The rhythmic applause bringing back the performers for their 
pay on Saturdaynight signalled triumph for the University Theatre's production of The Fantastlcks. The Jones and Schmidtmusical was presented smoothly·and imaginatively. · · 
I· This "p~ahle about love" is while they seemed to le~ve someI a tightly structured and relative.: comlct possibilities unexplored I ly uninvolvedpieceoftheatre. The.· .were frequently delightful togeth­' music is pleasing and playful. ·The · er. The strength of the: smaller · play teases itself all along, bris!c parts exemplifies the quality oftheIand flippant Its·very theatrical-: · production:BobUrso, ·as·thepaun­ity keeps it from dripping ·into chy Indian with a British a_ccent 
·1 

squeamish sentimentality.' In are-whosetaient is dying, is a master lated way, in 'its _philosophizing piece ofgrossness.:Terry Francke in Act II, the musical is able to . as the Old Actor is splendid in his · be convincing without the usual : tottering ~d forgetful declaim­heavy-handed moralizing. The key ing., 
' to the charm. of this work is its The Fantasticks, directed 
_simplicity. And wha~isthe vigor by Fr. Harvey and staged by Owen and thrustofthis piece is its man-Klein, continues tonight through ner. -Thereal·weight· then, .rests: . Saturday; The curtain-is at 8:30,-~ ·--· 
self ,ii•m a Quaker--'-an atheist j . ece (The Boy) are superb._ Miss Quaker.. (i~ yo1:1•11 ,excuse -~t} re-rPetroffis far b;etter th~ ~deq~ate dundancy)" showed. a concerned . and is a spirited little.actress. :Yit which .:.,as compelling, ifin a I The "RoundandRound"d~et-dance . frail way. Snodgrass, unfortunat-J with Kavan,augh, a strenuous. and.. 
ely, doesno~readhis p.oetry wen. ,· exciting numbe·.r of.high lifts an~ :His thin voice labored whiningly quick steps. while s~gir,g, ~ r,e ,over his' verses,: warped words, : markable. · 
Dick Van Treece ·is easily .. 

andfrequently weakened the writ-i the smoothest s·ing·.· ~r'iri the cast. 
notso muchon the"music and plot 
as on how the cast presents it. 
The players are excellent, 

headed by Dick Kavanaugh . As 
~onewhohas seenlocalproduc­
tions in the last few years is a­
ware, Kavanaugh is wholly at 
home on the stage. In the con­. trolling role of the Narrator, 
Kavanaugh is the fullest. charac­
ter and is abie to manipulate the 
mood and pace of the movement 
in such a way that the serious words in the ·second act are .not pretentiously· out of place in a. farce; but an effective part of the ' whole: ·It is an athletic role --he . :has the . stamina. Kavanaugh's singing voice is edgeless and sli­
ghtly flat, bu! ithas a ce_rtain ma:-· ture· darknes"s which I:ie turns to great.advantage, His 111 can See It" d;et "_ynth Thi B6y was within his vocal range and was perhaps 
the most completely effective ·musical bit in the show, and his almost.interminable death swoon in the riotous·· "liape Ballet"is a 
comic stroke. · · 
l\larilyri Petroff plays the sole female_ .role. ·Pale and big-
eyed, she is The GirL As a some-, what. short-~iuded singer, she slides slightly off high notes in 
•soloes, but she has a_ good, range . , and her d_uets with Dick Van Trc­
His pleasant voice makes or helps to make some of the finest musi­cal moments, and his Dobie Gil­·Us-like 'portrayal of The Boy is somehow amusing where it could be insipid. DavidGarrickandJohn Patr~c~Hai-t play the. Fa_thers and, 
The raucous "1-t Depends-On.What: You Pay" ls wot-th the ·prlc~·.of.th~­ticket.· · 
KELLY MORRIS·· 
Social Action Director Lectures 011 f:nryvlirais .:: 
On May 7, Msgr. George 

Higgins, director ofCatholic-Soci­al Action, gave a lecture on.!'Pope John XXIlI and ·Industrial Rela­tions" before a large .audience of economics majors, faculty .. and other interestedstudents; The talk did not concern industrial rela­tions as much as It did the spirit ofthe Pope's two encyclicals, :r-.1a-. ter et Maglstra~dPacemin T-;;;;: rls, and the role ofpluralist groups ·in a modern democratic society,., 
At the beginning. of. his.talk,-. 

Higgins warned _against confusing·: 
the use of th~.w~ri:l_''S_Q<:ialization' -: 
in Mater et Magistrawith'social­
ism• He statedthat misinterpre­
tation 6fthet~rni had c~~sJcl' cciA­
troversy. 
The Pope favors socializa-. tion with several qualifications. Free enterprise should be control-· led tofavorthe common weal, yet this control should µot be equated with 'government iictton or policy until· it has ~en 'initiat~d by the pluralist groups, i.e. , labor. vo­luntary oig~izations, et~. At the same time, government. sanction is necessaryifthc~-co~i.r~l is to be posltlve and progressive. , · · :. ~x:ing. the"que~tion period that followed: a priest announced that those students required to at­tend.the lecturewere ni> ionger re­quired to remain.. Everyone .left, including Msgr. Higgins. 
DAVID SAVAGEAU 


r.\•.••t-~+"'.'.fh ':',~~.P:9 •:t>,(l..::~~•;~~....,_,r..,. --... '7.,...-~._·,.-~~ 
•' 

Vol. 1 No. r, page 4 May 16, l!)G:J 
-----·-------···----------.. -----··-------·---·-· ---·-· ... -..... -·-•-.--·. 
Huarte Directs Varsity to Record Win. 
'FRESH~AN'DUJ?ANCO, SOPHS PIVEC. KANTOR SCORE TWIGE 
' • , ,•-,. I ,· '' ' 

' . . i ,' 
Top Ranked Bombers Invade_ 
Tomorrow at 1:30, the Notre elc foilowed with a score, as did. Dame Rugby squad will play host 
Jack Murchy, who was playing _his tothe St. Louis Bombers; the top 
·nrst game for. the Irish after a 
ranked rugby team in the midwest. Since their organization three years ago, . the Bombershave gone. . undefeatedandhave been tied only 
once. The Irish hope to average· 
the 3-0 defeat handed them by the 
St. Louis club last season. 

Unbeaten Palmer School of. Chiropractryjourneyed from Dav­enport, Iowa last Saturday and went home stinging under a 42-0 . lashing, administered by the Notre 
Dame Ruggers. 
The Irish tallied five limes 
in the opening half with some tre­
mendous speed and ngilc ball hand­
ling. Ken ~tinson opened the scor­
ing with a brilliant run and three 
point try. Haryy "the HookPr" s,,._ 

The Notre Dame.baseball squ­ad gets another ~rack at Michigan here . this afternoon, concluding whathas been a busy week for theI Irish nine. Monday, senior left"­Al Hooper and_Bob .Lesko. (70) of.Notre Dame.move in on Jim -, . --,---hander-Phil'Donnely-went· against· 
season-long injury. Tom Ger­lacker . toed a field goal before Steele countered with his second try of the afternoon.,'to conclude first half scoring. · . 
The Irish second half offence· was enough to rattle anyone's bones, even those -or' ·Palmer's· outclassed chfropracters-lo-be Mike McManus, Len Frankl, John­Murphy. and Pat 0' Malley each scored a try as Gerlacker booted three two-point conversions as well as his second field goal of the day to lead the Irish attack. Pat Kealy, whose fine riinning led many offensive charges, rammed the ballhome twice to round out the Irish scoring. 

I 
i 

I 
llalfuack Joe Farrell (42) runs ou of blockers during last Saturday's Old-Timers game. John lluarte (7) quarterbacked 
the varsity to their 47-0 triumph. ·
I 
i I 
I 

. · Michigan, Stops .Irish StTing; Lewis College Falls 3-1-,13-2 
.Aaron of West Point, during the Easter tour of the Irish Rugby Club. The Cadets went on to victory, 18-16. 
TRACK 
Notre Dame's trackteamhad little trouble proving itself to be the bestin the statelast Wednesday.. but couldn't cope with Sherman· Lewis and his Spartan teammates · on Saturday as MSU slipped past the Irish, 73-67. 
TENNIS. 
Northwestern lifted its sca­

view the Irish finale on Saturday.
son's record to 21-1 with a 6-3 

conqueetof the Notre Dame tennis ·--------------•i 
teamlastweek. The Irishfinisl1cd 1 secondin lastweekend's quadran­
Compliments
gular meet as.Indiana toppled the netmen 7-2 after ND ·had posted victories over Western Michiga'n and Iowa.· 
Mastic I Corporation ·l 

-·----·--· --'-----1:­
The odds that Notre Dame will 

repeat this barrage against · St. Louis arc rather poor since the ·bomber defence has been reached for only five points through their first ten contests. Over a thou­sand crowded around . tho rugby field behind the tennis courts to .watch last year's battle. • Rugby captain Bob Mier is · hoping that at least that many arc on hand to 
of George· Berliant 

·ANDRAS STUDIO 
·Yours for Photo Pleasure 
114 Lincoln Way West 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
EJwa'tJ c:f/-_ d/-nJ.~ 


Never in the history of the back, the record shows great fa­Old-Timers game has the Varsity voritism toward the Varsity teams rolled to such an overwhelming , as they have complied twenty-four victory. The traditional. tilt was· , victories, compared to the seven started in 1929 under Knute Rockne . triumphs ofthe oldsters 1942 saw in order to lest the varsity at the the only lie of the series, with nei­end of sprir{g practice. Looking ther squad managing to muster a 
score. 
-::::,..... . --.. --~-= ·~ 
~-•• \••·• l 
~--' 
IF , ·., 
...,. . 

Northwestern'. :mdthcvarsity was host to Valparaiso on Tuesday. After . bowing to defending 
NCAAchampi~nMichigan5-lear-. six at the plate, and Counsell had 
lier last· week, the. Notre Dame · two singles and a tdpie. The Lewis 
baseball team notched victories ,fielders helped out by committing 
sixteen '~d sevente~n by toppling sixerrors in the first rwo innings 
Lewis Coll.ege3-1 and 13-2 Friday allowing eight unearned runs. to 
and Saturdayafternoons respectiv-score. Sophomore left-hander Ed 
ely. The Irish, in winning, won Lupton was the man who received 
t~eir seventeenth outofthe twenty-, this support, and won his fifth . one_garnes played, and have eight. game without a defeat. 
games remaining on their sched-. Inthe loss to Michigan, Steve 
ule. . Rustek turned in a fine perfor-
A semi-frigid Friday after-mance, but six Irish errors did 
noon did not deter the Notre Dame not help ·at all. Southpaw Rustek 
nine from handing Lewis their Struckou~eight Michigan batters, 'I 
fifthdefeatintwenty-four contests. ·and gave up only one unearned . 
Curve-balling:Mickey Walker was and ga~c up only one earned run. I 
the starter and finisher and fin-The Irish had six hits in the nine 
ishedoffthe Lewis ·Flyer~ by giv-inning game, and Michigan com­
ing up only six hits, and striking mittedfive errors. However, No­
out nine in the process. Walker's treDamerunproductionwas cur-,. 
won-lostrecordis4-1, and he has tailed by three Michigan double­. the phenomenalearned run avg. of plays. Nine Irish runners were 
nd rule double ·that bounced over 
-~-...:·---------,---;-. :-------------­
· , Concrete· 
. . ... ,• . 

Produ·cts HCorporat,ion 
-----11_1_ 
-·---·••---­

the right field fence for two runs This proved to be all that pitcher Walker needed, 
Irish hitters came·alive on 

.Saturday ·knocking out seventeen bits, andeasilyrunningover Lew­is 13-2. Rich Gonski, and John Coutisell had three RBl's apiece· In ·addition, Gonski went five for 
The 1963 meeting was not tense, butthat•saboutall it wasn't. Color, smoothness, dexterity, and 
' aggressiveness were displayed by all the players. This 47-polnt 
margin of victory was the biggest ever racked up by either team. IL leaves all Irish fans with ari ap­prehensive and hopeful look to­ward the 63 campaign. 
Inadditionto the outstanding defensiveworkof the Varsity, of­
l 

fensive statistics give the entire .,l game to the youngsters. Eight of j thirteen passes were completed ; 
1

and seven of these were hurled by-· . i Huarte for 138 yards. The veter­'i 
!

ans pooled 153 yards in offcnsivf.. .. maneuvers while the Varsity tO:.: : · talled43lyards. Onfifty-fiverun-· nlngplays, the Varsity chalked up-,­282 yards for an· average of 5. 1 yardspercarry, Work-horses for the Varsity were Joe Farrell and Pete Duranko.· Farrell carried · eight limes for 4. 4 yards per, while freshman Duranko pulled 'a 
7. 2 mediumoverthirteen carries . "Murph" Mittlehauser, Bill Wol­. I ski, John Simon, Joe Kantor, and Jim Rakers all were impressive onoffense. Jacj Snow handled the puntingjobfor the Varsity and av­eraged 34 yards per boot. In the ·.; 
pass reception department, the · comblnationofHuarte to Dave Pi­vec was r.:sponsible for two tal­lies, covering 72 yards. Notre . Dame's recordholder; Jim Kelly, was able to flag down three of Hu-, artc's aerials and Jack Snow pul-·· led in one. 
'The Varsity wasted no time lndrawingbloodas Pete Duranko on the si?cdnd play from scrim­
. mage scami,ered 30 yar~s. set-..
1 

. ting up his first tally which came . · severalplayslater from the eight,:.: --! yard line. Huarte converted and ·/ the scorewas 7-0. During this pe-1 riod, Daryl Lamonica hit Ed Rut-. j kowski on several occasions for . , the Old-Timers, but the Varsity held. A Huarte to Kelly pass set upJoeKantor'stallyfromthe two. With less than ten seconds re.'.. maining inthe half, Joe Kantor a­gain bulled over from the two. The -culmination of this 52 yard drive came as a result of Jack,' Snow's 28 yardreception of a Hu­arle pass. Pivek and Duranko added twelvepolntstothe Varsity's cre­ditduringthe thirdsectionand Hu­arte footed two more P.A. T. •s. Rakers·crossed from the four and Huarte again nailed Pivek with a 35 yarder to end the scoring for the day. Final taly: Varsity,47 ­')ld-Timers,0. 
O. 61. The Irishcollected nine hits ~s:;t;r.:;an~d;_;ed~in~t.he.-t.am~e;;,;·-------•------------: 
butcould only tally three runs, all  
coming in the first three innings. Right-fielder John Counsell had three of the teams' nine bits, and  ·Woodworth ·Storage'  
Shaun Fitzmaurice slashed a grou  & Transfer.-Inc.  

.40SJ-11 So: _St.Joseph ·
.INDIANA 

Agen~s. For Allie\:J Vari Lines.
f>RODUCTs· 

Moving, Storage, Packing
COMPA~Y 

...... ·----·-·----·------.-------------------,----------,---­
The,McCaffery Co. Inc..· 
. . '' . , . . 
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS OF ELEC_T~ICAL APPARATUS & SUPPLIES 
-----··. 
WESTINGHOUSE APPLIANCF.S. 
. . . 
TELEVISION & STEREO_-FIDELITY 216 .:. 22 E. Wayne St. CE 2-4821. 
-· ------·-------------­


