

of the University·. of Notre Dame 
. Vol. 1 No.2 MARCH 28, 1963 

._-SCHOLASTIC NO
· Yale· Economist 
On E_ast ·Europe 
'.LONGER FORUM;
ON FREEDOM
Dr. J. Montias, Professor of Economics at Yale; . gave a lecture on the· «Political Eco~ 

FOR STUD.ENT
Unf?rturiately, ~r. Kung had little time the other·:night to en­?omic Policy in Ea~ter"n .Eu~ope" 
gage. in speculative theology. His. remarks addressed to the in the Rockne Lounge Tuesday 
Catholics in th.e audience were uncommon perh.aps, but only in anight. Presented by the:.c'ommit­
common sense. The number of .Protestants present was at times 
OPINION
tee on International Relations.. to the only face-saving justifi­a typically small audience, Dr. 
cation for the young theolo­

Montias pointed out the dramatic and to themselves as well 
gian's accusations and pleas. ·("absolutism of the .indivi-· ·.·. ' The ScholaSfic exists no Father said that the Scho­
reversal of economic objective 
They at least might not be dual, "·a servitude to historical .longer as it has exiSted this fastic will continue under thein. the Communist controlled expected to understand at once fadd and ..whims oJ nature). year. It is to be curtailed as a same name, but it ·will be a•countries of Eastern Europe. 
why the Roman Catholic church ' Christ i~ the only freedom. His forum for. student opinion, and communicative mechanism, that;He also detailed the new at­ought •not be comparable in freedom, Kung says, is freedom• · 'the policy will inStead ·tend Tom Hoobler will be chosen· 
tempt of "planners' prefer­
structure and operation to . an from sin,. Jaw. and death only toward Fr. Bernard's. statement editor; and that there will be no 
ances" to direct the total output 
anti-gospel totalitarianism. in order to. be freedom for of 1959 that " th e logical extent April 26 issue so that .the riew of the individual countries. 
Fr. Kung used DostovskFs salvation of, children of God· ,of the ScholaSfic's expression staff can become established.
"Pl . I

anners' preferences" are "Grand Inquisitor" sequence the glory of the .heir~ .of th~ ,of opi~ion, ~f criticism, of .The student reaction to this artifical · mathematical plans to analyze a frighteningly pre, Father. But the task oLfreedom. ~u~gE:5_tion, wiU .be. to those has .been catacylsmic~ Many of whereby the.. output · of the valent "official" understanding is·· not merely free talk free -'.a~h~ihes of students which fall the Scholastic staff consider country is theoreticaliy· estab­of the Church. At the same time preaching,. or even free theolo-,:-Vlthm the,,scope of student themselves, in effect, fired. 
he poin e ou o e rotest-,gy. ·lS. ree 1 e. e tragic · e new c o ast,c seems
lished and to which .the indus­. . t d t t th P · It . ·f· 1·r Th · government. Th " " 5 h I · trial and agricultural concerns ant· brethren that the Enlight-. threat. within• the· Church is . · This is ·the upshot of a uniyersally unpopular. A com­must abide and fulfill. There enment had done more to effect _that the . i?dividual \,'/ill be· ·flurry of meetings held Wed-mittee of the senior fellowship
has: ,been, however, a marked· .genuine. toleration than the· _;f~rced back. 1into the fortress of ,nesday between the Scholastic winners has been formed.: They 
cnange iii the dogmatic . sub­0 
Christian Reformation; Con-his own fre~ consciousness, or ...editors ..and-members.;oLthe ad~__h~ve drawn · up a petition pro•missi_on to these formulas since stantly moving back and forth even worse,\ that he will turn · ministration. Fr. Hoffman began testin·g · th·e · administration's 1952. The disregard for con­from the Chruch as a community to. seek freedom. entirely away by removing two ai:ticles ·from move as "a denial of the rightis longer able
sume_r goods no to the role· of the individual from the Church. · · Campus. at a Glance on Wed-of free speech" and they "de­
to be done. as easily, ·as under Christian, Kung noted that the Kun.g ,sees the. Catholic _ 'nesday morning. One of 'these mand that the Scholastic b~ re-the .stalinic r.egime•. The eco­Grand Inquistitot can success-:, was a listing of the grievances established as an· uncensored nomic c'ol1apse of Hungary and fully betr~y Christ only if the ProteStant split .in terms of the ': section of the Declaration of organ· of student opinion, for·· P_oland ~;: 1956 further empha­· d"1vi·dua1 d · the capa-principle of the 'order in free-· Student Rights and Grievances Notre Dame to be at all in har­
m enies sised this fact. As a result 'if 

bility. of his conscience and · dom and· freedom·. in °rder. An· passed at the last meeting of· many with the true spirit ofthe choice is between eco~o:iiic lays·down his "burden of free-' overemphasis on th e. lirSl half: the Senate; (this document in-1 freedom as exp.ressed by Dr.
growth -and a · growth in the 
dam". in mere cult. results in the problem of radical; cidentally, -will probably never\:· Kung." Twenty-six of the.·' sta'ndard of living, these Com-. suhj:c~vis,~ and "pseudo-· be passed out because it is· twenty-eight senior fellowship 11 ·munfst countries will now 
Kun g's sense of the. inev-. ~~sChac:hsoml.1' .On. theh c~ntr_ary,., rumored that student government! winners have signed it, and the choose the· standard of living 
itability of human weakness . c overemp asis gives . heads were threatened withl' other two have not as yet been increase. was realistic and.refreshing. If rise to sterile legalism -and a . expulsion .if this mandate of··,.. reached. It is rumored that the · Czechoslovakia has even he preached at all, it was for . stagnant set of "Christian" re-· ' f I
taken the unprecedented step of · th f · 1 ti h' -Th · · -· the Senate were carried out.)'i ac~ _ty is also drawing up a
1 completely giving up hope of a ical stains and the fact of sin opportunity is, _dn one level, 11 
. e cam acceptance o histors. a ons 1ps. e. ecumenical The Scholastic editors and 'iir. petition to the same effect. 
plan for economic advancem~nt . d f th . b d . , 1·ust the Protesta'nt chance t...o Costello, their faculty advisor F ff
iri 1963. . . .an or e a an onment of met with Fr. Hoffman later in r. .Ho man said at the 
ner'vous attempts at' a total see .. the value. of strong min-·· th -• . evening meeting, in response to 
nd th

The political imposition into historical apologetic. What he istry (order and a_uthority) and e m_ormng a ey were told a question whether the Voice ecC:nomic cohtroi' has not been proposed was a definition of the Catholic one ito· recognize of r ·the administration's . new should includ.:-student opinion a success 'for a number of freedom as God-centered and of the· Reformation as a still .un-po icy·. Fr. Hoffman also told "I think it wcJld be very help:
the . Church as the necessa·ry finished neces ·t · them that,. contrary to tradition ful if it \"ould.tt Th1"s seems to
reas~ns,.-' but ..the underlyfog . ! . SI y.. the present editors would not b;
factors are theJack of incentive "dwelling place of freedom." give the ,y Voice the ·license of 
and fear :of' co-operation. The .But he wanted to make clear allowed to write any of the the former Scholastic. On the Communists have introduced a that this understanding is not Choral.· Fe.stival. Scholast;c's editorials after other hand, it seems to be numb.er of corre~tive · factors, contradicted by the external . ~aster. This made tlie laSt is• . twisting. the issue. The raison .. b.ut none .. \>f these have stopped Church, its dark evil un-nature. ' ·sue April s: At this meeting, · d'etre of the Voice was to be a
' h bb · Dr. Costello. resigned. ' · · 
;~ _e , e ing capitalism~ Sunday·, March· 31; St. Mary's-newspaper -in part, to free the .. T.h, .. -_ . I It seems that Kun g's final' College will be host to the In the course of the after-Scholastic as a. forum for. · , , e fetishism• of all. the and " concrete" . demands for· annu.al Catholic Choral'Fe. s'ti'va·1. noon, the three editors, McCabe s tudent opinion. The adminis­
11

._sate .ite' ".,countries matching freedom of conscience,.· speech, .• Partici. pati·ng w1·11. be . groups Wyrsch and .. Ahearn were t·old·' trati'on· seems to want to reverse .. :or Russiadeploym·ent·s of.resources. for and . action were taken some-. from various Indiana· colleges. that if there were any riot or the two; Perhaps.we should just
net investmentratio" · future benefits, which is as what . "personally." As to. Among them are Marion College if they were. at all_ conne~tea' swit~h names. At any rate, 
h. h lQCJI. rather overloaded questions of Indianapolis, St.. Mary's of w_itn·.--.a_·n_..Y.· 's. tude.nt .•Pr.ote.st pub-. duplication is pointless. The . ig ·as .. 1o.a ye.ar..in... Industry · showe·d afterwards, h'is msis-· the Woods of Terre· Ha·ute,· ·the hcabon,· they.-would all be ex-V · ·11 have to be a. forum
· o,ce. Wl an d :7% tn agriculture, i·s. too tenqe on freedom, h'is condem-· local st. Mary's and the fresh-pelled._ They-were also told fo_r studenL opinion, or co.mpete . hard. d.. to· maintai.n.. Even ·in nation-°f fear, h'is, proposa1 of ; man choral group from Notre -!hat""tliere would be no. April 5 with th: .new n_on~Scholastic peno s of economic stability · confidence, had struck closer · Dame. issue,· so that the 1·ssue whi'ch Scholastic~ . It is deplorable 
. ,t.he planners have not been able to h. ome than perhaps might . .· . . . . had al.ready gone to. press .would · from. _this . viewpoint that the
t k h 
: .0 . eep .. . ratio constant. have.pleased h' · · -· ad
t is im. Notre Dame's· The program will ·be present-. be the last of the present edi-mimstrat10n made the dilem~ ···The difficulty with the fo·r~ own domestic version of the · ed in O'Laughlin Auditorium at· tors. It is not clear.whether.the ma necessary. ··nulas is the attempt to consider problem divided at· least sec-·. 3. p.m.· A cantata by· Father· editors. resigned in protest over · The issue is huge It
a one. · .nen. as machines; also they tions of the audience into op-· Hager of the Notre Dame Music the policy statement . in the 
raises the question of the :>verlook the fact that men may posing camps of laughter and ·Department wi-11 · be sung.: Mr;· . morning or were. forced into validity of student opinion, as ::hoose . to work or. not. This applause. Each side waited for · Cole will ·conduct, ·and • Mr: resignation by this·. elimination so many issues have this year. ::onsideration along with . the the :.. theologian's supporting Pedtke will· be accompaniest. of future issues. · · . The student :cannot pretend tol ·1utonomy. that plant managers confirmation. Fr. Kung; how­
. . At. the.: evening. meeting of take a dictatorial position. But \ tave . been able. to retain ·has ~ver, was admiraply ecumen-
I the .,Schplastic;= .staff, Fr. Hoff-neither. can. the administration ' ·epeatedly upset all future 1cal. ·. · -• · · · 
? 
1, man stated that the. new policy , reject the attempts of the stu­>rojections•. Here .again the 
Men by themselves, lie Notre Dame -Collection ha& not. be.en .c.learly fo. rmulated,. ,,,. dent body at communication • .nefficiency. and fear . of : co­
pointed out, are not absolute The history of Notre Dame': but that itis· to tend toward Fr. >peration become obvious in 
masters of themselves~· ·Th'ey ~rt collection goes_ b_ack ver1 • Bernard's statement, and that ' :~e regulated but splintered 
. are SU bservient to o,bjects,,·. early, to .around 1850. . ther~ will_ be f~ll censorship of
?conomy. · 
goods, and forces of the wor.ld,· .,---:-:-:-----------' the issues to insure conformity f \ --Grover Nix' . to the policy'. . : . · . 
i•
\ 


March 28, 1963 ·,page 2 Vol. 1 No. 2 
-l\lOVIE CALENDAR 
. . ,,,

T·H·-·E_··
MOVIE PLACE 
' 

"A Taste of Honey" Avon and "The Man Who Wagged 
.AFTE OON
His Tail., · 
..

"Two for the Seesaw'* Colfax 


·F·­

"To Kill a Mocking Granada This last week, the Statement of the Rights, Responsi­
bird" 

.. bilities and Grievances of the Student Body appeared. on the 
.~·> ~-.~:; •::».• 

,·, Senate floor •. It -was an inadequate, shabby show. It' had ap­"The Courtship of State . peared quickly .into a confused atmosphere. ·Its history and
Eddie's Father" ' handling are' nofclear, but they show some of the problems 
the committee approached, as well as some of the weaknesses of that approach. ,.., 

CITY MOTEL ' 
16~1 Uncol n Way East 

The most blatant flaw of the bill, and the source of much
AT 8-5168 

dissatisfaction, .·was its form ,of presentation. Having the of­
Rooms available ror N.D. 

fensive ring -of a manifesto, it was too short and somewhat strident. The three page document, a brutal· contraction of aroothall games; make rescrvA­
longer report, was unfair to the committee and more unfair to 
"~~e~~ ­
.tions now. Also a few left for SPRING--WtH:N A YOUNG-MIIN1$ A major misunderstanding produced by the presentation
AN1> ANYTHJNQ. LOOl:'S G001> 
involved the _spirit of. the statement, which was_ at one time Commencement. 
called a "Declaration". It purported only to be a single voice, that of some students, which, to affect any consideration (much less significant change), would have to be joined by

The Myth of Neutralism ·· . I 
FANC."(,., 

those of the faculty and administration, in' response and under~ standing, and -most hopefully -in some accord. It was aPresent day neutrals can They catted for the admission -a·tmosphere of our own creation. 
challenging and questioning voice, but ultimately most chal­
generally be _classified into of Red China to the United It had becoine abundantly clear, 
lenging to the students themselves. The statement did not
two groups; the static neutrals Nations and supported ·the ln-at least to India, that this 
sound that way. _
of Europe and the dynamic dependence of numerous Afric• position of playing East against· 
The first of the three parts of the report outlined the theory
Afro-Asian countries. . The. an states. Neglecting the prin-West and remaining unalligned 
In Loco Parentis· -a catch-phrase for t}le authoritarian rela-.
first group is significantly ciples, they ignored the Korean in the cold war was an unreal­
. tionship of the administration with respect to students -and·
barren of members, while the conflict, the war in Indochina, izabl~ dream. 
a theoretical denunciation of the condition. The phrase became
second is distressingly power-the thwarting of human rights Some of these nominal 
a student battle cry easily_but it;si"gnifies. a concept which has
ful. The true neutrals are nee-'in North Vietnam and China, neutrals have been forced away
•essarily small countries, un-·the march into Tibet, the shel-not been openly debated at _Notre Dame,· and it..was not debate4 
able to affect the balance of ling of Quemoy and Matsu, and from their ambbivalent di plo-in the Senate. -_ . · · --_ d t t . the invas1·on oflnd1"a's fron't1·ers. matic-position y the agressive The second part was an .enumeration,.of Student Rights and
power an · con ent o rema10 at policies of the Communist 
. Responsibilities. Again; the Senate!s'.·:neglect, or assumption
their present strength. Most Regarding Russian problems, countries. However. many of the 
-of this section, which provi4es the,rationale behi~d the pro­
:characteristic of these are they ignored Hungary, dismiss-Afro•Asian. nations are still 
:Sweden and Switzerland, whose ed Mr. Khrushchev's road-posals of the last p.art, was,. rather facile. The "valid state­natural resources and national blocks to disarmament and his str0ngly anti-American. It is ment" of the student's role was _open to considerable argument, . temperament leave them rela-denial of self-determination in our.job to lead them away from but it did not appear. -. _ . :· ·' ·_:-· 'tively independent of foreign· Berlin. Moscow and towards the West. Instead, words flew about, for, and at t~e thirg part: "Griev­stimulus. More significant, Further the neutrals could How? It seems that one way is ance.s". The thirteen proposals sat boldly ·bald on the page,howe. ver, &0 r the un·ited Stat.es · -to aid them in developing their
•' tum against _America and sup-with ne.ither elaboration nor argument. The reasons of the more 
are .the •many large and poten-th . d b f . economic resources. True,
port eir stan y some o our A · f · 'd · f lengthy unpublished report _were badly needed. It i s hardly
tially· po~e_rful_-countries of the mencan · oreign a1 is o ten 
_ action. They recalled American th ht d t d b surprising that debate should concentrate upon the dolors, for
Afro.:Asiari bloc: the nominal oug pre a ory, an can e 
it is in these complaints that djssatisfaction is originally felt.
neutrals. (or, more properly, Westem) . resented by. a native· populace imperialism and the bad record which is hypersensitive about.. But it is unfortunate,. for such a· concentration distorts the Since the Second World War, of white, yellow, and black its self-respect. But only when intent of the document, which_ soughFa''de_finition ·of satisfac­
the natioris'have met frequently relations. Finally they saw the _;1 nation is relatively inde-, tory student•faculty-administration interrelations. The naked, ·­'to discusif'c::orrimon problems of American capitalists dealing pendent, both economically.and demanding presentation of_ grieyan~es -seemed:'"cry~tallized . foreign relations." -The.:..most , .not .JVith -them but. with the ''politrcally{ :-can'' the . peo-ple. -grumbling•. ' --, · . -: '· _ ;' '.·,·i'-:_;· . -_ ­
important of these _neutralist ·colonialists, The principles _ make a realistic judgement as The issue is one which calls :the·administration•student 'conferences took place in 1955, -may have been ideal, but the to .political allignment. · relationship to question and is therefore of faMeaching impor­when President Sukarno · of results _were_ hardly neutral. tance; also therefore, it exposed tht: ·problems of the committee Indonesia called a meeting at The myth of neutralism lost There is one other way, • and some faults of Student Government as a whole. The com­Bandung, excluding many much of its persuasive force in however, _which has begun in mittee. was energetic but. too hartily organized, though the 
-· · Western oriented· countries; Ten :1962 with the Chinese invasion the past few years and must be virtually unseen longer report ,.is more representative of their flawless principles for inter-of India. The passive position . expanded until · we reach our· 
efforts and more worthy of consideration. · 
national peace were drawn _ of India at the time was -un­·goal. .This. is to. encourage· 
The Student Senate, in this matter, again exhibited some 
suchprinciples as racial equal-reasonable· and · almost· unbe·­-students :from these -countries 
of the reasons for its impotence. The meeting approached a .. 
·ity, .. ,..nagressi~~. human _rights, ·lieveable_to the West. Finally, to study in America and Europe. ­
parliamentary horror and _the statement's theory was hardly
-Unless we make Western, edu­
:nonil,'·erference with other after _ seeing thousands of 
touched upon, but the crippling factor. seems to be isolation: 
coun · des, and a nuclear test Indians lying dead on the cation. more attractive and. 
from the student body -which could hardly have much of an
'Jan. _ Upon these principles northern Indian plain, Nehru .available to · the Afro-Asian. 
idea of what has happened; from the administration -the· rem-· 
the'. oased their support of the was prompted to say, "We students, the Communist pro•_ 
edy of which condition was the intent of the report; from the 
-,r, 1ed test ban in 1959. _They were getting out of touch with fessors will make· the West a 
faculty -whose influl'!nce or--presence was nowhere seen; and
-::onuemned the · Anglo-French-the realities of the modem :minority group in the community. 
'ofnations. · . · from other universities -who could have been a. great help in
Israel agression -on the Suez; world. We were living in an 
this case. · . What. has been done? Offici.ally, the Senate has approved the statement, without seeming to be in any real agreement.



·_:EVENTS -CALENDAR 
A nine-man board is to be selected, three· each of students,
March 

28 4:10 pm · LECTURE: "Approximate Operational . ; ...•...... 123 Nieuwland 
faculty, and administration, to
Methods for Solving Chemical Engineering 
THE VOICE

consider the· materials of the
Problems", Dr. Stuart W. Churchill. -_ 
John J; Gearen -Editor

Senate committee and make 
~~=:-:;:,;;!':~~C.".'..:~~,... .

· 28 4:3_0 pm MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: '.'Linear.; .-~-226 Computing Center· 
proposals to the Local Council,
Processes of Approximation", Dr. S. Knapowski 
Features-Editor: Kelly Morris
the governing body of the·
28 7:30 pm PLAY: "Long Day's Journey Into Night".......•Washington Hall 
University. That is, nothing has
28 8:00 pm . LECTURE: "A Mathematician Looks at . . . . . . . . . 265 Nieuwland ­
Features Staff: Thomas Brennan;
actually been accomplished; the· 
Mathematics", _Dr. Thomas Stewart. . _ 
Thomas Cullen, Rick Far­

problems are now in the unform­
28 8:00 pm CONCERT: South Bend Trust Fund Quartet • . . • . • Little Thea.ire 
rell, Alnna McGratten,. ·

ed board's hands, out of the·
29 1-5:00.pm _ COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL, .. ,............ Fieldhouse 
Grover Nix,. Jack Quine.,

·senate. Curiously, the board is
29 1-.5:00 pm ENGINEERING OPEN HOUSE, ... , •........•... Stephan ·center 
Dave Savageau, Greg Theis­

to be formed "immediately", 
I • '

·6:30.•10 pm Continued. 
yet subject to Senate approval, 
sen, ·Tom VituUo

29 4:30 pm MATH.EMATICS COLLOQUIUM: ''Quan-.••..·226' Computing Center 
-and the next. Senate meeting is_
tifiers and Martingales", Dr. F.B. Wright. .. · ~ ·. · 
undetermined. 
News Edit.or: _William McDonald
·29 7:3opm · PLAY: ..Long ·nay's Journey Into_ Night".•...·...Washington Hall· . 
Considerable mystery murks

29 -7:30 pm NOMINATIONS: Final Date for turning .•..•.• Blue Circle Office 
the business. First, SBP'Hart's · 
News Staff: Tom Anderson. Tom
in nominations for class officers, coilege · 
abrupt reversal of attitude is 
·Brejcha, Dick Connelly,

senators, and Student Body President.· 
perhaps Justifiable in view .of 
Paul Creelan, Jack.Ger­

30 All Day Book Store will be closed for inventory .•.••.••.• · Book ·store 
the product; but certainly, is -ken, Paul Meagher, William 
30"' 1-5:00 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL . • . • • . • • . . . . . . . Fieldhouse 
.,. not . satisfactorily explicated.· 
O'Brien, JohnScanlon,

30 1 -5!00 pm, . ENGINEERING OPEN HOUSE; ....•:....••..•.• .' Stephan Cen.ter ­
/ :second, -. all students .were to· 
Howie Smith". Frank Smith,

6:30-10 pm . ·continued. -. .. . . _ . . 
-'.•have -received ·-copies of the_ 
Roger Sobkovia.k, John Zusi ·

30. 7:30 pm PLAY: "Long Day's Journey Into Night" •.....• ~·. Washington Hall 
statement but,have not. Third,
31· 1 -5:00 pm, ENGINEERING OPEN HOUSE, ..... .' .• ; .•.••.•. Stephan Center 
.•there is the incalculable quan-
Sports Editor: J_oseph Ryan
6:30..,10 pm Continued. , · _ _ ' . 
'tity,nwhich is the faculty. One·
31 a:oo pm. CHORAL FESTIVAL: Indiana catholic Colleges .•O'Laughlin Au'l, 
wonders how and what, or if, the 
Sports Stailf: Tom Doty, Dan .
31 .7:30 pin PLAY: "Long Day's Journey Into Night".-.......Steplian · ·center· 
faculty thinks of_ the problem. 
Dunphy, William Miles,

31· 1:30 pm BRIDGE TOURNAMENT: Open to all .....•.. .-...Student Center: 
Thus, hope for change

31 2:00 pm -LECTURE: "The Artful Philosophers": ...•.• ; .•-Biology Aud. ·-"from_ below'' rests upon -the 
-frank ZiriUe . . . 

_,Dr.Ralph Mcimerny. . · ,:·,:iH ·-unnamed group, As the first 
Business Manager: Edward Orsini 
. APril ··: ,, ; . 
Advertising: Louis Jepeway_, BiickY
climax of a perceptable under­
3 4:00 Pm _ STUDENT-FACULTY COFFEE HOUR..•.• ;Rm; 402, O'Shag. Hall 
graduate stir, the s'tatement 
Photog~~;~~os~es Berberet,
3 -· a:oo pm LECTURE: "Can the United Nations work?"...... 118 Nieuwland 
was something _of a feeble, 
. Frank Schieicher

NOTICE: ·organizations wishing events to be publicized ~ust notify the Voice by .Sunday .or the' 
mis~anaged~ and abortive ef!ort. -.._L_aY_o_u_t_E_d_i_t_or_:_J_oh_n_R_o_o_s_____,
the week the event is to be publicized. Next Week's calendar begins 4 April. 
---·----­


' 

-
' 
.

E 
of. the University of Notre Dame 
Vol. 1 No. 2 MARCH 28, 1963 
_ ~: 1,000 parents converg­ed on Notre Dame last weekend for the Eleventh Annual Junior Parents-Son Weekend. Begin• ning on Friday night and continuing through Sunday morning, the par en ts and their sons. followed a busy s'chedule of tours, · receptions, and dinners. 
The weekend formally began with a luncheon in the South Dining Hall, followed by re­ceptions . where the parents met the deans and faculty .of their son's college, the cadre of the three ROTC programs, officials of the University administration, and the rectors and chaplains of · the junior halls. 
The we~kend was hi-lited by the President's Dinner in Stephan Center. Over 2,000 people jammed the Center to enjoy a steak dinner and hear Bruce Tuthill, President of the Junior Class, and Fr. Hesburgh speak. 
Bruce, Chairman of this year's Junior Parents' Weekend Committee, reiterated the main 
purpose .of the weekend, which is to honor and thank the par­ents for their sacrifices. In his address, Fr. Hesburgh .tried to express to the parents some of foe spirit of Notre Dame, under which .their sons. live. 


On Friday and Saturday, March. 29-30, Notre Dame's nineteenth.· century fieldhouse will vibrate with the latest in twentieth century sounds iri the fifth annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. There ·will be three preliminary sessions starting at' 
1:30 · and 7:30 on ·Friday and 
1:00 on Saturday afternoon. The final session begins at 7;30 Saturday_ night. · 
Twenty schools will send groups, including Indiana and Michigan which will send both a big ba_nd and a combo. Each group will play for twenty minutes in each of the three preliminary sessions•. At the. end of the third session the five judges will select those· big· bands· and combos which will compete in the finals. At this time the winning soloists also· will be chosen, and these will perform in the finals that night. 
A group of ten.or more, are considered a big band; and so the Lettermen, Notre Dame's entry, ' will compete against ni_ne other big ba'nds. 

Awards will be given in eleven categories ranging from the finest jazz group through the best in strum entalist to the outstanding original composit­ion. A loving cup and a plaque will be given as. a traveling and permanent trophy respec.t­ively. In addition, each member of the winning band will receive a music stand and a scholar­ship_ to the National Stage Band Camp. The winning combo will play at the Village Vanguard in New York.· · 
-----~ 
j j 
. i 
) 

! 
i 
! 
! I 
l 
-,i 
·~ 
i 
. .




~~==3:..:-;!!!~~~=-==~~~~.'•·--:\:./u _-• ' l 
$8,000,000 Library soon· to be completed at the east end of campus. 
SKY ABOVE, 

MUD BELOW_ 

The sands of Indiana have given birth to three new build­ings, which fonn -the new quadrangle .at the east end of the campus; the Library, the 
Computer  Center  and  l\lath­ 
ematics  Building,  and  ·  the  
Radiation  Research  Center.  

The first, and most prom­inent of these, is the new· library. Its 443,000 sqµare feet . are spread over 13 stories, a basement, and a penthouse. The first three floors alone contain 93,000 square feet of floor space. This means that any one of the first three floors is equivalent to a baseball diamond with foul lines of 316 · feet and a center field wall of 560 feet. The library, costing $8,000,000, is capable of hold• ing over 2 million books, which 
Forced Double Anyone?? 
The Office· of Student Ac­counts has announced · the. procedure. which will be used in picking rooms for next year. 
rhe procedure is. designed to encourage students to stay in 
th--e1'r p.re··s·e··-0 t-h·a·11 ·-b-y--·.··g·1-v··1-n-g· -.. th f• st reference 1·n choos 
em 1r P •

ing the rooms in that hall.. 
First, students will be given· a chance to retain their present room if they have an on-campus average. Secondly, those stu:. dents who wish to move out of . their room but to stay in the same hall will be permitted to choose; by average, any of the vacant rooms in the hall. Rooms 
. d . 

are. classified in three ivis­ions (rooms with a bath; natural 
singles, .doubles, and triples; and forced, forced doubles); and students will only be able to move down or to stay in the same division. Finally, during the regular scheduled. period from April 24 to May 6, those who wish to move out of their present hall will be able to choose any vacant rooin. in. a. hall assigned to their class 
, year' or to a higher class year. . 
The ,chief beneficiaries of this plan will be the present juniors, who will be given first choice to move into the best rooms in the senior. or junior. halls; Those who will b-enefit. least from the plan will be the · presen.t freshmen, ·who. w~U be left with the dregs of.the ·upper class halls to choose from• · 
.According to the. philosophy behind the plan, they · will be· encouraged to stay in the saine halls for their last three years ,by · giving them the· chance to move around in· the hall each year, and thus to pick progres~. sively better rooms, Assuming that the idea of stay-hall resi• dency is good, the plan is the.· easiesC and most acceptable . way of encouraging students to stay in the same hall for their upperclass years•. The new system also continues th.e in­cen'tive principle· of the ··old system by makirig academic 
average the criteria~ for intra• hall changes. 
is four times the number con• tained in the old library. The mural which will decorate the

IRISH AT INNSBRUCK side the building
south of stands 90 feet high and was designed by Millard Sheets, ItIf a few.. problems. can be classes at Innsbruck, the stu­will require 122 differentcleared, up, beginning with the dents will be able to travel for shades of granite, and willClass of '67, fifty . students three weeks in Europe. Once at represent the scholars of thefrom, Notre Dame will be able Innsbruck, the• students will ­ages reaching up to a figure ofd ·th · s h take three courses from the 
to· spen eu op omore year Innsbruck faculty, .·two others Christ with his arms outstretch4
studying at the .University • of ed. 

. Innsbruck in Austria. :The pro-from the Holy Cross fathers · accompany1·ng them and w1·11 be Among the. facilities of the
gra~, which rwm_. appeal . pri-. ' manly . to . m~n .. in .. Arts and expected to audit one more from new library will be a display 
-· ·--· · ·~ ·--·-the Innsbruck faculty· room for new · books and ·a
Lett_ers_, will· 1allow the-__ par.tic•·· · ' · · · -----· 
Th t d t '11 f' d th t ·sh·-owroom . for' · the -library·'_s1'pants to earn• Notre Dame's e. s u ens Wt lll a 
, th ·11 t b · ed to at treasured volumes. Group study
required er.edits and a_ t the same ey Wl no e requir • · t d 1 t d th t th Iy rooms will be provided, and
time provide ·them with the en ec ures, an a e on opportunity to understand a new t~st wi!l be an extremely dif~ there will be comfortable . language and new .· customs. -£1cult fina~ exam. • smoking lounges availabl.e to 
According to Fr. Chester A. . . The maJor problem yet to be the student body. · ·· Soleta,· C.S.C.; Vice-Pre.sident solve~ concerns the place for for Academic· Affairs, the costs• t~e fifty t() stay. More than The building at the east' end of. tran-sportation, tuition, room likely, o_ne of the many resort of the new quadrangle is the and board will. be the same as hotels ~ill be leased for a yea,r Computer. Center and Math-. 
a .year at Notre Dame; and at a_ ~11?~· In any e"'.ent, the ematics Building. It contains a 
• h. l h" d d b · th poss1b1hhes for social con-2 million dollar computer which
sc o ars 1ps awar e y e b · d · · 
. · ·t .11 b 1. ·bl tacts seem to e goo • 1nns-is to be used for research. This utnilversbl y kw_i e app ica. e bruck is co-ed, and contact 
computer does problems which O nns rue • · 'th th · 1 1 f t 't'
St d t , .11 b . 1 t. d wt e oca ra ern1 1es. could nof be solved by men in 
u en s w1 e se ec e on h Id k th · · 1 .. l'f
the basis of academic achieve-s _ou eep e soc1a 1 e a lifetime, in a few seconds. ment and a basic knowledge of alive. . A problem. in microwave spect­German. The fifty selected will _Acco_rdmg to Fr. Soleta, the rosity which would have taken arrive in Europe in August and Un1vers1ty of ·In:11s~ruck was the old 1620 computer four spend. six weeks of intensive chos7n because 1t 1s a com-. hours will be completed in 51 study at a German language paratlvely small school (enroll-seconds by t'1e new one. 'Only institute... Before beginning ment of 6000), and a program 16 seconds of this time is 
· such as the one sponsored by actual calculation time; the · Notre Dame would not ·get lost rest of the time giving the · 
printing a chance to catch up.
Innsbruck is very good (part-. On the second and · third icularly the theology depart-floors are the Mathematics The' 1963 Mardi Gras was a ment), and Innsbruck is central-Department offices and class combination of ·a booming fi-.ly located in Europe. rooms. The Math Department nancial success, active co-· · Innsbruck itself is a com-· has already moved in and is operation and successful munity of 130,000 people which ·quite happy in its new home. innovations but; nevertheless, is nestled in the heart of the The new . building provides·raised· some serious· questions Alps _in southern Austria, about needed room for the expandingconcerning future plans for 130 miles from Munich, the graduate program and for math­Notre · ·Daine's· number one cultural center : of Germany. ematical research, as well as 
. social event. As of March 18 · a ~lath library. the Mardi· Gras showed a profit' .of over $25,400 with only small · 
A.Qua1·,11·ed .. Success quite so readily. The faculty at 
The third building is .the
But even though this year's

bills still. to be paid. For one 
Radiation Research Center,
Mardi Gras was such a sue-·
of the few times in the history which is o\med by the Atomic
cess, a .cloud of gloom lays on
of the weekend the ball showed -Energy Commission and . oper­
the horizon.• Th_is is caused by
a profit.' Chairman Jack O'Con­ated with money appropriated
the cold response to the raffle
nel stressed that while the 
by Congress. The building pro­
· which made two or three of the
administration was not pater­vides more space, larger e­
committee work for ten months
nalistic, the committee receiv­
quipment, and a more flexible
· to attempt to promote the raf-· 
ed ·help ·when·ever they asked 
for it. Among the innovations £le to an apparently indifferent means of continuing the work 
begun in the cramped quarters
student body. A. questionnaire
were·· the hiring of. a profes­in Nieuwland Science Hall.
is going to be circulated in the
sionar accountant and the 
This consists,. in part, of a
:spring to ask the students if
Chainpagne Brun.ch. While the study of the effects of radiation
they want a raffle. If not,. the
brunch lost money, it was a on matter through the use of great social · success. It re-raffle -80% of the profits -will radioactive sources such ashave to· be discontinued.
lieved, as O'Connell . put it, Cobalt 60, x-ray equipment, and"thaf Saturd_ay morning lull." 
a high voltage Van der Graff generator. 

March 28, 1963 page 4 
DEVORE 



IRISH TOP· IN.DIANA 
.SELEQS_ 

On what ·was perhaps the. made good the two point con­first. spring day of 1963 in version kick. The score stood South Bend,. i.e., temperature at 11-3, Irish. The Hoosiers above .forty degrees and blue seemed to be tiring rapidly in skies with sun overhead, the the second half. This was evi­Hoosiers from Indiana Uni-. denced when Bob Lesco piled versity invaded Notre Dame to· his way over the goal, taking With the hiring of ex-Irish open the Rugby season. This with him seven of the Irish great, Gus Cifelli, Coarch Hugh was the first year of organized· scrum and seven of the Hoosier Devore completed his coaching Rugby at Indiana and' only the scrum. The final tally for Notre staff for the 1963 Notre Dame second season for our Fighting Dame came when the Irish. football season. Irish, but this did not put any scrum pushed the ball over the Cifelli, who never played in damper on the action as the goal and Captain Bob Mier a losing game while playing for 500 spectators firmly held their pounced on it £or the success­the 1946, '47, '48 and '49 Irish sideline positions. fol try. This concluded the powerhouses,· will serve as an . I.U. drew first blood after a scoring in the tilt with the assistant line coach. 


.scoreless 15 mlnutes. Captain final toll reading Notre Dame He joins newly-hired Dave Bob Pace . from South Africa 17, and Indiana 3. Hurd and Jerry Stoltz, both 
Tim Reardon, the outstanding boxer of. 1963 war~s off _the
took a pass and sped toward Co-captains Bob Pace and 1961 college graduates. 
charge of Ted Valenti on his way to the 160 pound title Friday
the goal line from twenty yards John Scofield, assisted by Art Hurd, who will probably out. However, this was the only Stump and Tom Wallinger led concentrate on coaching the night. · 
· scoring punch the Hoosiers .the play for the Hoosiers. centers, .won two monograms at could manage the entire game. Offensive stars for the Fighting that position on the 1957 and Ten minutes later, Irish full-·Irish were Bob Mier, Buzz 1958 Notre Dame squads. After Reardon ·Named 
. back, Tom Gerlacher booted. a Breen, Dick Bell and Tom a knee injuxy, he served as an · penalty kick through the up-Gerlacher. Defensive standouts assistant Irish. frosh coach in rights to knot the score at 3-3. were Harry Steele and Tom the · fall of 1960 under Hugh 
· ·outstanding Boxer 
With a minute left in the first Tonjack.. Devore. He has served as line half, Tom O'Hara; the Notre · Next Saturday, the second <foach for John Carroll. Univer­
.Tim Reardon took an un-. , Earlier in the evening, it · Dame hind brace, bulled his team of the Notte Dame Rugby sity in Cleveland the past two precedented third straight Larry looked as though it would be way to·pay dirt from three yards Cl~b will journey to Indiana 
seasons.• Ash award as the outstanding the night for the underdog.
away. Gerlacher's kick was off University for a game with ,the Stolz, who quarterbacked boxer in the 32nd annual Bengal Dennis Keefe, a sophomore from to the tight and at the half it Hoosiers. The first team travels the Toledo · University grid bouts held in the fieldhouse··. St. Ed's, decisioned Bill Sanne-' was Notre Dame 6, Indiana 3. to St. Louis, J\!o., to meet· the squads of 1958, '59 and '60, last week. To win the trophy,. man, last yeat's title holder, in
Fourteen minutes into the St. Louis Billikins, a proverbial 
has been definitely assigned to Reardon had to beat two of the the 130 lb. division. Keefesecond half, Dick Bell scored Rugby power. 
work with the quarterbacks. He best fighters in the Bengals, scored sparingly but consistent-for the Irish and Tom Gerlacher 
was freshman ·coach of Toledo_. Tim Brennan and Ted Valenti. ly throughout the contest which· ·in 1961, and served as back-The Brennan semifinal battle ·saw both fighters clinching field coach last season. ' saw the champion· scoring re-whenever possible.. . . -Spring practice for the N·otre peatedly with consistent bursts · In the 137 pound class, Tom
•Gf...··.··•·.···.. -:·.··_ .·.·'".·. .-.··.·-.·..··.....·..··-....;... Damers will·begin on Thrusday, that kept Brennan off balance Echewa, a Nigerian who ex­
: ·:_ · ··.· · , J April 18. Following twenty days throughout most of the contest. hibited the finest defense in
•·. .· .. ·.~-~ ..r of practice, the annual Old The Valenti-Reardon duel the Bengals in his semi-final ,,,....--.--· · • ._ · . ,:_0 ____-_:,__ ~ i :Timers game will be played on gave the packed house the decision over Brian Richardson, 
• '···-r-~ May 11. action they had come to see. changed his tactics and came · · •~!".''"r,.., .".".."•1!•\ .•-,T,..' ,·,· _ Twenty-four monogram men . Valenti, last year•s 156 lb. out sw1·ng1·ng against defending · return from last year's squad, champion, abandoned the wait champion · Sam . Van Ness. 
. with leading giound gainer Don and ·see attitude of .his semi-Echewa downed a surprised Van Hogan missing the "practice final,bout and went· back to the Ness qriefly in the opening sessions. due to a hir injury bullish attack that gave him round but went through a dia­
suf~ered m an auto accident on the crown last year. The first asterous second, allowing Van Chnstmas Day.. Frank Budka, .. two rounds saw Valenti scoring Ness to hit him at will. Echewa stm recove;ing ~rom the broken with •some ~ell-aimed head raHied in . the final round, but 
.leg h~ !~~1.vE:t!~ th~_ ~outh.~m. shots· with -Reardon coui.iteriii1{ it Was n-oi enough· to take ·the Cal. g_ame, is .a_lso unlikely to with strong body blows to keep. decision. participate. , 1 .the Valenti attack from• gaining Ed Hager decisioned John momentum. The third round was McDonald for the 147 pound 
There will be a rally for all probably the worst Reardon has championship in a long range those interested in joining the seen in Bengals action. The battle that saw the fighters try­newest campus activicy tomor-· opening seconds were marked ing to outjab each other. In the 
row afternoon in the freshman with several flurries on both 155. pound class, Tom Hynes
' 
quad. Yes, you. frisbee experts sides. The sophomore from took a split decision over Bill
t,. 
finally \\ill be given an oppor­Dillon suddenly took over and · Meeker as both men held off,
i i tunity to show your wares. The had •the two time outstanding looking for openings, until the Captain Bob 1Hier passing the ball to fly-half Buzz Breen (not rectors have promised to cheer · boxer pinned to the ropes during final bell. The Reardon-Valenti pictured) to start an offensive charge for the Irish. you. on from the sidelines. the latter part of the round. battle followed, closing the When the decision was announ~ pre-intermission action. ced for Reardon, the crowd, Jerry Houlihan dodged Jude 
i

YOU Ski Team finishes ·rlfth much akin to that at the Clay-· Lenehan's jabs and kept the ' 
1
Are Important in Jones fight two weeks• ago, a-· freshman back with powerful i rose· and booed the departing offensive flurries to earn the
Cancer Control ·i
champ. However, when he re-167 pound crown. Tim Brennan,
* * Captain John Turner and his Colorado schools dominated ) 
five teammates on the .Notre the meet with Denver University turned to accept the Larry Ash a loser to Reardon in the 160 ,! ·, Know Eorly W.arning Signs Dame skiing team battled their placing first and Colorado U. a trophy from Moose Krause later lb. semis, came back to topple 
in the eveni'ng, the crowd was Jim O'Rourke · for the 170 lb.
See.Your Doctor At Once way to a· fifth place finish in close second. Dartmouth sneak-just as generous with their championship. · · If Any of th~ Signs Occur the NCAA National Champion­. ed in to take 3rd. Western State 
Have a Yearly Check~up ship meet in Alta, Utah. University of Colorado out­praise. Tim also received an Manion finally unleash­
Dan

award from the senior class in
The official results have not scored the Notre· Dame contin­
t ed that menacing· left on his
recognition of the fine work heyet been distributed, so indivi-gent to take 4th.
* * way to the 177 pound title with
has done in the Bengals in the-dual performances . in events The cross country proved to
I · a victory over Jack DeMarco..
last four years.
t .other than the jumping compet­be the most grueling event of 
l Courtesy_ ~f ..· Footballer Tony Carey fell to '· 
ition aren't· available. Turner the three day, sixteen team
CANCER SOCIETY OF. · the long reach of Bob Moylan.
.led the team in scoring as ne meet. The skiers raced over the
ST. JOESPH CO. Carey dropped Moylen in the
l 
.531 w;st Colfax Ave. . competed in. the downhill, the · ten mile course in fantastic INDIANA. first round but lost the advan-· cross country and the slalom. times, considering the 8000 
~. -tage over the next two stanzas
South Bend I, 'Ind. 

Larry Reynolds, the only .fresh-. foot elevation. • Despite the
i and Moylan was given the split
/. CE 2-1431 · . .· man on the tour, was almost as · altitude, the winning· time was decision. In the heavyweight
r (UNITED .FUND AGENCY) ·outstanding in the slalom and 66 minutes·. PRODUCTS contest, John · Slafkosky made
! ' the· downhill race.
L a gallant effort, ·but could not
! 
f' l keep his 250 pound frame out.



COMPANY
i·· fhe McCaffery Co., Inc. 
'of the reach of tiny (225) Jack 
I. Antoni who was given. the I. 
decision. Wholesale Distributors of 
John · Wyllie . g9t the Mills award as best first year boxer
Jectri~ol Apporat'us .~ Supplies 

t· 
. with Desmond,. man Wyllie beat in the quarter­.Westlngh~use Appliances,. :finals getting the Dooley a-· · 
Corporation Joe the . 
r•,• ward for the best performance
Yours For Photo Pleasure 
in losing. Tom Brennan got the 
· Television 

Concrete· .Fr. Ryan award as the most improved pugilist and Jack 
& Stereo. Fldellty · 114 Lincoln Way West 
Hilde!Jrand got the Huddle trophy for sportsmanship.·.
.. Produc.ts 

Reardon· was given the · out­
· Mishawaka, Indiana 216 • 22 E. Wayne St. standing boxer award.. 
· CE 2-4821 



Corpo_ration 
Edward A.· Andras 
BL S~S695 

f 
. i 







