
.. ..,•..,. .....
_ 
. 
. 
' .
T 

OIGE 
of the University of Notre Dame· 
Vol. l No., 4 

Freshman Year In Retrospect 
For the past year, the ginecring subjects in thetp­Class of 1966 has been en­pcrclass years in order 
gaged in an experiment that to fulfill the degree req­is unique among colleges in uirements, but the advan­the United States, It is the tages of the new curricu­
Freshman Year of Studies, lum seem to outweigh the initiated by Father Hesburgh .disadvantages. and:brought into being by 
In spite of the mistakes Dr. William Burke, Fr. 
which ,vcrc made and the Charles Sheedy, and l\lr. 
people who were hurt byThomas Bergan. . The pur­limitations of curriculum, pose ofthe new program is the common freshmanyear to lower the alarming 17% seems to have fulfilled its 
. of students who drop out of basic purpose during its the University:or flunk out first year of existence. It , .because of enrollment in has· offered freshmenl the wrong college, Under greater opportunities for

l. the newp. r!,Jgram •.· f~eshman. ' 
t; guidance than they have 
"r•:----...,.--..,do,i-ot"irrevocably compiit 
ever had before. ·The rium.:. themselves to any college 
berofstudents on the Dean'st in their first year, tiui in­list Indicates that the .new 
stead. give only a declara­prog·ram ls not any more tion of intent, with the op­· demanding on the freshmen,tion to change colleges if · but that it ,offers them a they find that they are more more equitable curiculum suited tc":i another area of designed to help ~hemad­·studies, -·just to University life more The program will prin­effectively by allowingsipally affect students with them to sample a wide var-.,

'intent_s in the colleges of iety • of courses in their. 

Science or Engineering. At first year, and thus· deter-.• 

the end of the first semes­,mine the area inwhichtheir 

ter, Dean Burke transfer­interests and abilities lie. 

red· 114 freshmen from The unjust crHicism of . Science and Engineering to the new system has been ' the A. B. college, and by that it tends to have a le­

the end of the· present se­velling effect, with no spe­
mester, the total may rise cial incentives for the ex­

to .250, The curriculum 

ceptional student. However,.has been so arranged that fifty freshmen in the ad'­these students will only· vanced placement program. 
·. have a history or social · have been taking Sophomorestudies credit to make up. 

courses; honor courses are 
Some engineers voice the avallable in most subjects;objectionthat the liberal­and there have been more 

ized freshman year will able teachers and less gra­· force them to.take a more duate assistants in the .pastconcentrated load of en-

year than ever before. This · class has paved the · Stanford Wins Troph}' way for students of · future · years to complete thead­
Stanford Hail won first justment to college• with · place and a year's posses­less friction and more lo :.

sion of the Patrick Curran 

gioal judgment than wasi.temorial Trophy in the ever.possible under theFreshman Inter-hall Debate· old system.
Tournament. Joe Alamas, of Havre, Montana, and 

. Foundation Successful
Gary Morrow,, of Geneva, New York, gathered in the Final · reports for ' the trophy for Stanford by com­ninth annual· Student 'Foun'-. · pleting an undefeated day dation Week·. held ·_ March with·· a victory o_vcr the se­24 through 30 show that . cond -place Keenan Hall Notre Dame studenb co~-:-. team of Howard Dooley, tributed $1,366.55•. This Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, amountis thehighest in· the · and John Saiyer of New · history of the, Drive',• top'­
· ,, Town, Pennsylvania. · p!ng tho previous high ' of 
·· · Keenan H_all, which· won sixyearsngoby over eight' the tournament and the tro­hundred dollars'. , . phy last year, placed an­The $1,366.55 w!iL be•, . other team in the top four, used for. two partfal scho­asJedKccofDallas, Texas, larships to be. awarded to 
'and Bill Morrey;, of Chica:..' returning Notre Dame _stu­go, Illinois tied for third dents: The recipients of · _ place with• -Gene Be.eler of these scholarships will be' Glendale, Kentucky· and chosen from .those , . who Jim Kenney of Hazlet, New .have made the regular ap­
. Jersey, who represented plications to the, University _..._.. _•:_.-~~:i:~·)?:C,g.~-:~hiltip+~·~ . :··• ,r .for scholarships. 
"Growing Pains of 

.German Democracy". 
Germany's progress in democracy was the subject · oflast\Vednesday'slecture by Prof. Eric Voegelin of the Political · Science De-· pnrtment. 
According to Professor Voegclin, German· demo·­cracy is beset by unique problems, Divided Germ­any is a depressant -cast-. ing . a , shadow o_ver .all . 
,German affairs. No poli­tician dares to declare the . impracticabilityof reunify­ing,...yet the government runs.on that premise. His.;: torically,. continued Prof. ·Vo/,gelin, the birth of Ger-·· mad democracy is· unique,· . in that its democracy is not revolution -bred 'and thus laek_s a .strong militant 
backing. An awareness of th.e necessity for astrong base for democracy scar­cely exists, 
The rece.nt Der Spiegel ' affair dramatized German ineptitude in democratic . 
; · procedure by showing (1) the lack of necessary un ­dei-standing and .tradition in application of their Con:". stitution, .' and ( 2 ) the . effects resulting from im­proper channeling of lnfor­m'ation through ·· de.part­. ments. Concluding, . Professor · :Voegelin expressea .hop~ by noting the repulsion of the public and press to the_ . ·incident and its authori­tarianhandling, mid the in:_ creasing German aware­ness ofdemocracy's needs and methods. 
·A BSophs Meet Major 

The :Meet Your•l'ofajors Programs for the College 
· of Arts and' Letters were held throughout last' ~eek in the Student Center. At this very important cross­roads in the student's edu­cational del(elopmeut, the college endeavors ·to aid him in evcryway possible to enable him to make a soundand intelligent dcci~ sio·n. 
At each ofthese meetings, the departmenthead, mom­
. bers of the faculty and up­perclassmen ' majoring in the· particular field were present to explain the var­ious major sequences and answer. questions concern­ing. them. The meetings' wcr_e Informal and informa-;­tivc. Refreshments were served causing one sopho­more 'to remark, ·" Me ? I'm majoring in coffee and 
· doughnuts·. " 

pAGE 1  
Ellis Launches "New Deal"  
·.·,  ._ :.  
A  new  power has  bee.~  .these, committees,  then  
born  In  this,  the  spring,  brought to the_ floor.  This  
following the "winter of our ·  · will  give  a detailed  pre-­ 
discontent.•:· .This 'c'i-ner­gent force is Dave:Ems: re­ view to more people, so ·that they will know what  
cently  elected  · S.  B.' P.,· ·  to expect.  
who .has  already  begun ·  ,  , Ellis plans to be the per- 
plans for next year · which  ·. sonal  impetus  behind  hi~  
arc striking in their .con-;­ program.  "I will ask for  
trast to the present, .  .  the recall  of..Senators  if .  
A political  science ma­ they  fall  down-on  thejob.  
jor, he feels that, ''A great  The commissions are going  
power  lag  has been .  left  to have to  work  more with  ,;  
thisyear in student govern­ment, " Ellis is laying ricw · groundwork ·and bringing a new theory that centers aroundhis personal control and an increase in activity.  the halls. I will demand that people do their work or leave." He proposes greater co­operation with the Admini­' stration than was attempted  ' j ·1 ! l j  
,Confidentofthe support be­hind him, Ellis plans, '.'To  · . by the present student go'." yernment. "We begin with  !  
push  for e,verything,  then "  cleaning our own house and  
insure ,,that  the  following·  "in  turn  expect much more  
year will maintain my-shot  ' success in other attempts, II  
in the arm, this vital  sense  He  will  try  to  get Father  
of progress.'·"· . Communic,aticin serves · as the cornerstone' to · the·  . Hesburgh to speak again at · the. opening of the school · year as in the page. "We  j  
new program. "An ·in-· ,. crease In· communication . ·  . want to hear administration yiewpoints, 'in the Stephan  
will come· with. spot .dis-:•. cussions on WSND oversp~c­cial issues, plus the regu­lar monthly report,., in-. creased use of The Voice' .  C~nter, if possible. We want. these to come not as ·dictums,. but as stimulants to understanding. Reaction · could then be channeled  
and a Senate Opinion Com-' mittee to tak~ spot pops in each hall. " He· will al'­ · "  through student government'! ·Ellis also proposes a more diversified social life.  
so require senators to· poll the halls on upcoming·• mo-. tions a week ahead of'. the  !' I ~m _meeting with Saint Mary's s. B. P. now, and . pfan to have the girls do  
meetings. The Senate will meetevery other Mon-:•., ,·" day . ... ,. -_.:: _-­._ -.• , ••:·.... :":. ...He. d~esn't hi:dge:,atiout\' the ~ethods 'for cff~~ii~g.: his plan.-~"There-wi!) ,, be. a surge of action eady In : the Fall. ".This should be- some work for this thing too." ·,There, will be more social .programs. limited to small; equal number· .of people in addition to more .activities ~n the bigwcck­ertds. Campus Pacs may be back  
 
gin with mid-October elec., tions. ·Elections are now ·  next year, and a program will be startedto make loans  
held in late November.  · A·•  to halls for operating money  
"completely revised Con­· . : stitution, includinggreater definition of . commission  at the beginning o(tte year. The ,VOICE has been assured a future; "regardless of how  
responsibility, , detailed."· ·policies for :Mardi . Gras  · we have to work out finances for it, " reports Ellis.·.  
and  C. ·J.  F., as well  as.  Leaningbackin the yelfow.  
student go·vernme;;t., reor-' ·:  chair in the S. B. P; office,:  
ganization" will be written.  Ellis,  to some,  "a Southern  
The Senate will be  divided -·  gentleman lacking only a re­ 
into three standi~g clttees. · New areas  com;. · will , :  bel nag, II is confident ~f his. support as well as his p_ro­ 
·be dealt with as  research·:  gram.·  
profjects,  referred  :to.  

.The Many.Moods or"Mathi~ ·. :_,_ : \ 
On· Wednesday evening , 
· Johnny Mathis performed·.. in the Stephan Center. 1'h~ reason for the concert was that several students from· Notre Dame have been ask.!. . 
'
I 
.edto _be P.articipants in the · '.' 
'J 

Operation Crossroads: -, i · Afr/ca ·program for •next· 
j

summer. The basic .aim·, :··,• 
of the Cr'ossroads,.. Africa ': 
I
progr1,1m is ;o· give college 
l
students a.greater under-· 
I 

standing of Af~ica imd' its I peoples by·permitli~gthem j to live and work wiih tlie 
In light of student apathy l Africans for a 'summer. · · towards the program at the I , beginning of the week, . the I
. Sirice each. particiipant· International Commission,_in the program is rcspon:. •· ·.. 
j
with Joe Simoni as Com~is­sible for $900, the Inter~ · sioncr, wished toemphasizenational Commission has 
the fact that this program !
,sponsored the'. Johnny.Ma-. 
was brought to Notre Dame i 
this concert to help defer • 
with the .·idea. that Notrethe cost of the trip fqr, each. 
Dame students would help .
of the Notre Dame s·tudenis • their fellow students takeIt ,iras. foit that si'niie the'· Pilrt In this worthwhiie and program will' pr~biilily ex-.: ·', valuable program. .

pand in future years' fo in'-·.·. 
· For $5000, the C~mmis­· elude' more and· more ,stu~ •, · ~ion was able·to bring onto

dent participarits; the Inter-. : _the campusJohnny Mathis, . national Commissionshould ..~ folk group, and an orche7 sponsor a largefund,,:ruising stra. At $2. 00 a ticket, theproject so that the students,· ··commissionhoped to_ makecould establish a ·healthy enough morey to establishP,recendent · by raising·i~e · a ·large fund to be used bymoney· themselves in~tead thc.N. D. students partici­
of relyingonthe Administra-·' · · tlon for funds. . ' ·' ..... pating. in the Crossroads7 · Afrlru1' riroirram.. , · 



4"'· 11111111••-wr II' •
'·t\ . '• 4,:-' -.... 
Vol. 1 No. 4 · 
PAGE 2 





9-atllu ctlutu.191:.'~ 1.e.Un 
Hn A Context Of Love &· Complacenf!y 
;I. 
•I

Father Hesburgh's "state of the university" message in his 
/l A ~ t,
;,, IL.; I
Easter letter may take on the aspect of a significant document in 
·the coming months, and demands careful attention. The letter does not strive to define the student's role orclarifypolicy, so much as to wish that "honest love of students established the human context in which mutual respect and productive action are possible.•..••." However, "this still leaves a good deal unsaid•••••. 11 
The letter points to Notre Dame's "rampant" progress; it 
. is gratifying, encouraging. The University has gone far quickly , which means, first or· all, that it had far to go, but doesn't mean that it is there. The prideful presentationof the achievements sug­gested that perhaps the "human context". is not only one of love but of complacency as well. And complacency is one of the fears o! the "discontented. " The letter is not so much illuminating as im­pressive, and ingratiating. · 
It is dreadfullyunfortunate that motives of strategy and tac­tics arise in connection with Father Hesburgh's statement. The conditions of pitched battle may understandably have attractions to those in a faceless mob, . but ft can hardly be pleasant for Father 
· Hesburgh and a few others to be sitting exposed and under fire. Nor can it be very fruitful. · Still, the consideration of the "discontent"is rather curious. .· · After disclaiming the weather as an explanation, Father imrnc-Masher@· Speaks on 
' 
i 
l l 
l 

1 
j 

i 
l 

i 
i 
I 
I 

I 
' 

diately interprets student criticism as a sympton of winter "cabin fever". Before touching the features of the "cabin" against.which the fever was directed, he expands the consideration in applying the term "negativism." After this variation of "label-and-dismiss" · 
Father Hesburgh approaches specifics. He manipulates them in .the same method of grotesque comparison o.nd overstate-to-absur­
• dity as was used by students against the administration. To set "the long rows of crosses," the "hundreds or valiant priests and brothers, " against cars, girls in rooms, and curfews is as unfair 
1 as viewing the administration as sadistic cassocked ogres. It 
l -•serves no purpose to be posing _alternatives in such a misstated manner. 
Indeed, principles and permanent values must guide changes. But surely these values and principles which give Notre Dame its "ui{ique character" are not embodied in car restrictions, limited cuts, and curfews! Father H_esburgh's letter, while a subtle and 
smiling success in framing the "context," has not indicated or fur-I thered the mutual understanding which is essential for productive 
f . _communication between students and administration. 


[ • · lllllTH A VIEW TO 
Castro, went on to point to! _w . . THE FUTURE major problems facing the Latin 
American people. " ..... Tonight 
1
• _ The prevailing op1mon among students seems to be that 130 ·million Latin Americans will Father Hesburgh; in. his Easter letter;.slanimed'° the door-i_n ·the go to·bed-with hunger_pangs ...... . ' face of student leaders in their endeamr to improve the condition of 30, 000 Chilean babies who die of our collective life here. In one sense, those who profess this ·before reaching the· age of one, opinion 'are· cohect. Fr. Hesburgh left no doubt of his thorough 20, 000 die of hunger.... In Mexico 
l.. distaste for "syndicated discontent, " for excessive negativism, and 80% of the ·people are suffering -·_such wholesale attempts '.'to take theiwhole place apart and put it· from malnutrition; 46% of the peo-· 
[ · together in some new _image. " Notre ;Dame must never lose its 
\ 
"unique character," of which certain'rules and regulations are a necessary feature. Furthermore, students must humbly accept their role as learners, not teachers, and mustrealize the limits of· their "modest wisdom".in making their analyses-and· crying for change. '. , . 
Butthose who read no further than this, who find Fr. Hesburgh the biggest "nay-sayer" of all and see in his letter the death-knell of every hope for progress, are taking a sad step backward --from negativism to fatalism. Notre Drune will not. stagnate; it "has changed greatly, and will change more, for the better, one hopes." 
_Moreover, students will riot be denied ashare inthis newdynamism: "How long have we waited for student leadership to organize an honor system that really. works. .'. and a code of student conduct worthy ~f Notre Dame: " Are these areas unworthy of the efforts of the student :government? Certainly they promise less than the grandiose object"ives embodied in the Statement of a Student Rights --success would not bring a Shangri-La. But Fr. Hesburgh, has flung a hearty challenge and put these two tasks on our agenda. If 
· student government succeeds here, especially in creating an honor system, ·it will greatly enhance its stature. 
· I admit that one troubling questions remains. Does Fr. Hes­burgh wish students to acquiesce meekly in every other area? Can­not the Scholastic render some valuable opinions abo1~t :•.? whole context of our lif~ 1-)ere besides merely reporting facts? Docs the student point of view matter so little, or not at all? The letter a­gain provides an encouraging answer: ·"Am I saying that students shouldn't be critical? Of -course not." Events of the winter bear out these.words. Scholastic _was not tampered with until the very end, when the antagonisms which it had helped to build had passed the breaking-point. Too many editorials have violated the bounds ofcommoii sense, and some had insulted nro~bers of the C. S. C. Censorship seems a bad remedy 1n any cnse, but the editors had shown little tact: 
. The same indictment, in muchthc same way, may be applied to the Statement of Student Rights, which was suppressed. The idea was good --there was a need .for some kind of per;pective among students for future ambitions. But the issue was drawn with a tragic immediacy that clouded mature discussion of the do­cument arid made for dog-eat-dog diplomacy within any committee. 
· Th·c Senate made the mistake ofcombining effc~tiveness with speed; pushing the documents through while still in primitive form, .to­gether with a near:_ridiculous list ofgrievances. . 
The letter has pointed out that acrimonious upheaval has no place at Noke Dame. I am -inclined to agree. We must learn· from our mistakes· and show on ·our part that·censorship had no . place here· either.·' Weinust make our_stater.~.mts judiciously.and above-all, not take Fr. 's •insistance on humilHJ 'as an excuse for 
lt1thargy. . • . , 
· of Emilio Masboro, The Executive 
Secretary for the Latin American 
Congress of Christian Labor Unions._. 
The speech was delh,:ered to a me­
agre group of students in the Notre 
Dame Law Auditorium, as part of 
the Latin American Conference of Religious and Social Change. Sen­ior Masboro, 33 years old, and with voice amplitude reminiscence of his Communist counterpart, Fidel the 

Latin Eco1rnomlcs­
"Latin America is go1ng through an intense revolutionary process and all kinds of forces are being mobilized either to slow down this process or to accelerate it. " This quote is taken from an address 
ple live on a corn diet and never taste wheat bread." Contrast with this the fact that the population is 
rising at a rate of 2. 5% yearly and the economic growth is .increasing at a mere 2. 4% yearly, and a pic­ture of the problem is quite dis-_ tinct. · · 
The problem in Latin Amer­
. ica is like the Communist-threat problems throughout the world. The countries are backward, large majorities of the_ population are . ignorant ofthc_ least civilization, politicians and the very few well-· to-do are, for the most part uncon­cerned with the problems thatexist.. 
Pop11lation here, as in most underdeveloped areas, is a major problem. Another basic problem is the wasting offarm land. Acres arc burned away. 
Significantly, a lack of solu­tions pervadedthe whole conference. Senior Mcisboro called for a revo­lution · in the economic, political and social conditions. Bishop McGrath of Panama sugge'sted that many problems could be solved or at least· remedied by a stimulation _ of the latent religious and cultural aspects of the countries. No one, however, introduced a.sould and practical course of remedy. 
Aid was the biggest ques­tionmark. · Never can an aiding 
.country .buck the tendencies of the people-and their leader~. Grants _must be given outright with little or no stipulations. Under these conditions much of it is going to the pockets of the politicians with-. out reaching the people. , Food do­nations will only. bring transient 
relief. · The people must learn to product their own food. American industry_ on fbreign soil is opposed : by the native population. 
True to Spanish-Latin form, the lack of remedies was substi­tuted for by an abundance of hope. H~pe, in capital letters: is one of 
·the few commodities that is not at a premium. Latins are noted for· their hope and, unlike Americans of the city-suburbian variety, hope is a stable of life. A little corn and a great deal of hope and blind 
·faith .in idealic political phrases · will ·sustain the Latins and their pleasantly latent culture. 
EVENTS CALENDAR 

Date Time ' Event May 
MOVIE CALENDAR 

MOVIE THEATER 
"Freud" Avon 
"Come Fly with Me" Colfax "Nine Hcurs to RamaII opens Friday 
"The Birds" Granada "Critic's Choice" opens Friday 
"Days of Wine and Roses" State and, "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?" "Man from the Diner's Club" aud, "Billy BuddII opens FridaY ... 

"VOICE" . PENS '64 STAFF POSTS 
Applications will Le accepted for next year's Vo_ice, for the po­sitions of Managing Editor, News Editor, Features ,Editor, Advt!r­tising Manager, Business Manager, Circulation Manager. Associate Editors, Copy Editors, reporter:; for the news, features, and sports departments,· typists,· editorial assistants and clerics. The staff will be greatly expanded, and many positions arc open. Freshm·an, sophomore and junior applicants from both ND and SMC arc welcome Former newspaper experience i~­helpful, but not mandatory. Ad­cr~ss short letters of applicatior, to the Voice, . LaFortune Student­Center. Interviews will take pl ace by appointment in the week of Ma:-' 12th to May 19th. 
STAFF ·sox 
John J. Gearen • Editor 
Features Editor: Kelly Morris 
Features Staff: Thomas Bren• nan; Thomas Cullen, Rick ) Farrcll,~Alana-McGratten.•..., ..,;.) Grover Nix, Jack Quine, , · · Dave Savageau, Greg •: Theissen, Tom Vitullo 
News Editor: William McDonalc 
News Staff: Tom Anderson, Tom Brejcha, Dick Connelly, Paul Creelan, Jack Ger• ken, Paul Meagher, William. O'Brien, John Scanlon, : Howie Smith, Frank Smith, Roger Sob• koviak, John Zusi 

Sports · Editor: Joseph Ryan 
Sports Staff: John Borda, Tom Doty, Dan Dunphy, George Kruszewski, William Miles, Frank Zirille 
Bus1itess Manager: Edward Orsini ' 
Advertising: Louis Jepeway, Bucky O'Conner 
Photography: J ames · Be~Ecret, Frank Schleicher . · 
Layout Editor: John Roos 
Place 

·2 4:00 pm LECTURE: "Photoactivation and Energy Storage", -123 NSH 
Dr. Martin D. Kamen. 
2 
6:30. pm Annual Senior Class Dinner. 

2 
7:30 pm STUDENT RECITAL: Voice, organ, and piano 

2 
8:00 pm CONCERT: Symphony Quartet for the South Bend . Chamber Music Society. 


3 4:30 pm LECTURE: "Duality", matheniatics colloquium, . 
Prof; Andrew Wallace, Indiana University 
3 
7:30 pm AUDITIONS: "Kismet". 

3 
7:30 pm LECTURE: "The_ Investigation of Wrench Faults" Prof. John Cr_ciwell, University of California 

3 
7:30 pm· FILM LECTURE: "Wherever She GoesII . 


North Dining Hall · O'Laug;hlin 
Public Library 226 ,computer 
First Presbyterian Church 

:4  8:30 am  GOLF MATCH:  Notre Dame, Northerwestern,  Ball  
State,  and 'Bellnrmine.,  .  
4  _7:30 pm  STUDENT RECITAL:  Voice, piano and organ.  
.. 5  4:00 pm  CONCERT:  South Bend Community School  
Symphony Orchestra.  
5  4:00.pm  LITERATURE REAJ;)ING:  Profs. Ramiro Lagos and  
Lloyd Halliburton.·  Selections from Colombian  
'  'poets.  ··_  .  .·.  
8­ 4:10 pm  · Student Faculty Coffee Hour, • . • , • I.•· _;  all invited.  

_101 Geology , O'Laughlin 
Golf Course Little Theatre Morris Aud. 
402 O'Shaugncssy J 
. I 
~,w..dl~:,,,,tt...,..~,~~.!"!J!.C'-1'~,:.~..t~'.:/f.:•;\~~; 

f. ·:.~ .•,: '• .---_........

\. ..
:, 

Vol. 1 No. 4 .PAGE 3 May 2 1963 
i: ··---·-·-.-.-~ ---~:··~ ~,~ ~:~~;-~~-~-~-~:-7: ~~--:~_-·;_~-:.~~~:-,:--·\~:?~'~l ·:.:·_:. .. _. .-.. . . · 
I 
. : . · .~-·,'!:'.:.-, .. , .•.· ·.-.· .. · •>:!·_.;. · ·· tlarvardDoctor "THE CONFIGURATION OF HISTORY" I • · · • · · · · · Lectures on 

t. 
College Problems Professor Voegelin, in his lecture of the 25th of April, spoke on "The Configuration of History" as distinguished from what might 


11::--Dr. Dana Farnsworth, of be termed the meaning of history. The latter expression derives Harvard Medic_al Center, spoke in from the so-called philosophies of history of the nineteenth century, the Engineering Auditorium on those of Marx and Hegel, for example. The general method of April 24, ._With,· a quarter of the these philosophers was first to nation's . population in school, he assume history having run ·us co­began, interest has been particu-urse, and upon this assumption to larly high in the study of how stu-formulate a basic phHosophy. The 
.dents learn, as opposed to the wh9le of history is, however, not more traditional concern with a given factor, and ·hence their as­what they learn. Citing such stu-sumption is invalid. dies as those of J'acobs and Reis-A configuration of history, man, Fransworth gave as reasons on the other hand, is an attempt to 
-'; for' the-height'ened attention:. the find meaninginhistory-to discern _.~ decreased significance ofa college• patterns in history through study · ·. :, .degree, a hope to resist the creep-of both the historical cycles and · ..)nginto impersonality of American interpretations by historians of the 

. education, and worry over the various cycles. It is basically an sinking standard, evidenced in attempt to find order in history ra­fhcating~ · · ther than to impose order upon it. 
Illustrating his point, Dr.
F th th

Dr. arnswor -en com-. 
·· · d -th f t Voegehndcvcloped three examples
·, mence m a ra er per unc ory · . . _ · . 
· . t ·t th f .1. of historical configuration, all of
':\ manner o presen e am1 1ar · . · 
· . · . '. . -which were more or less interre­
.. ·•generalizations produced by these 1 t d Th f' t f th b d · 
, . . , .. . a e . e irs o ese was ase
,,,:·<-studies. He.citedasamaJorpro-. : 
··.. · · · · '·b·1· · · · th · t· . t 11-t 1 . fl upon the observat10n that Israel,
·· · ····· em e an 1-m e ec ua m u-· . 
. · . ·. · f · · · t· t . t· Greece, . and -China seem to have Lastly, Dr. Voege.lin spok
ence o genera 10n o genera 10n . · . · . 
. t d t t d;t. d. . shown a parallel development m of the configurationknowna·s exo
s u en ra 1 10ns an peer-group . . . · . . . 
. . ff f b h . age of the birth of h1stor10graphy-dus -history as a movement outo
dommance o orms o e avior. · ­roughly. 800 B. C.. to 200 B. C. the imperfection of self -love an 
"IPR'lr&" · now in art galler1 ·, 
At .the age when students Parallels occurred in three speci-into the perfection of love· of Goe are entering th·e "liberatingperiod" fie developments: first• the 00-.' This perfection is, then, adefinittA Place for the of college, society assumes that currence of a violent spir.itual out-object, a goal for mankind projec, .the "boys" ,are suddently "men"_hurSt; second, the, overthrow of ted into the future. History itse!J
.Unique Lan·guage_ 
Colleges, -said. Dr. Fransworth, exiSting authority. by imperial au-finds its birth in the emerging cor Today, most important colleges and universities in·. the United 
should workon this same assump-thority; ·third, the birth of histor-sciousness of this exodus move ,tates maintain art galleries (some insist fustily on calling ·them 
. tion. He ·listed five major aims iography. Such a · configuration, · ment. It is this configuratioO: tha 'museums") which, while open tothe public, are primarily intended 
ofcollege life: (1) the achievementhowever, leaves too many ques-Dr. Voegelin appears· to regard a; or the aesthetic and scholarly use of their students. This policy · 
of independence through ''construe-tions unanswered to be sufficient· most worthy of consideration.. ·eflects Newman's observation that the university as a center of ex­
tive rebellion"; (2) learning to in itself. A problem comes, finally
:ellence should have "a place for · ' handle ambiguity and uncertainty; The second example was con-in ·determining exactly what is th :eeing galleries .cif first-rate pie-ings comprising part of the Braschi 
(3) development of healthy sexu-cerned with the idea of a history of subject of~configuration ofhistory:ur·es". Most of these campus art collection in Rome .. AHhough the ality-an area ofspecial difficulty, empire, an apccalyptical theory It is incorrect,' Dr. Voegelin holds ;aperies have been built since original inventory glows with fam­he noted, because deans and ad-first put forth by the author of the .to say that mankind is .the subject,
' VorldWarll, in spite of the often-_ous names, .many ofthe·Braschi 
ministrators can't make up .their Book of Daniel. History, accord-for. the terni. "mankind" is only'I. ·1eard claim that a scientific re-paintings are not waht they were minds on the values and ways toing t? this theory, is a succession symbol for manunder. God,expres.: 
1ascence· is putting the squeeze on once thought to be. ·Fortunately, aid this gr6wth; (4) · emotional0 f five empires, the fifth being the sing thus. the equality of all me 
:--mch activities.· This expensive at-some of them can be exhibited to-;­stability; a~d (5)'the development kingdom of Go?·-. T_his configura:-•,·If, then, it is accepted that m;ention to the visual ·arts is a hear-day as fine examples ofless well 
of ,fadividua\ ethical values and tion, however, seems to come too _kind cannot be the subJect of a his ening indication _that the value of. known· painters, e.g. ; Leone· and 
standards. . ,_ . ne3:r to forcing an order upon his-: torical configuration, ·there is ap .· nan-wrought beauty -"the sweet-AUegrimi, ·. tory to be a?ceptable. parentlynothingleft for the subjec · !St, swe_etest spells" ,-has been· 
The Braschi' group did forni '.Dr. 'Farnsworth buUeirig It_self.


pointed -to_______________
:---. ·~ecognized as an. important part .of· 
. the nucleus for the Universfry coi-. the problems ofthis time of "zoom­.earning. 
lection and stiinulated some signi~ ,.irig standards", particularly in BOOKMEN PLAN 
DIRECT ASSOCIATION Two papers delivered at r~:..
ficant donations. of. paintings arid · handling authority and the pressure . 
There · is no · substitute for gular ·meetings have merited pub­
· sculpturefor the past three'decades. on. students to make ·decisions on .The Boolanen, a prestigous lication in the Juggler this year.,
1,--~ ;he student's direct and continu­..The . coHection had grown large ·. careers. The nation must, he con-albeit scarcely _known, . literary ,us association with original works enough by 1925 to be housed. in · eluded, continue. to put more em-discussion group was one of the Robert Stepsis, · who will do grad ,f art. The unique··1anguage · of four rooms of • the library which phases on education, and on values-ampus organizations recently ac-uate work in English at Harvard, 3culpture and painting provides not were called the Wightman Memorial 'in education. ceptingnew members. The objec-has one ofAllan Tate's The Fathers :mly . the concomitant.enrichment · Gallery.-In 1952, when· an art gal-tive of the Bookmen is to provide and ·John Pl\Store, who is going 
. from __ an· experience with beauty, . lery . was iricluded in the plans for an informal yet dignified atmos-· to ·Yale Medical School,· has one phere . in which to critically ._ev~l-_ · 
out also_ another important means . Lie Down in Darkness by Wil:..
the new College ofArts and Letters on 
by which. one· learns ·to discern' building, the name was changed The ,project of cataloguing uate literary works. -This end is liam Styron. The current presi­
. the trite· and the profound. The simply to_ the Art Gallery. the collectionhas been started and acco_mplished by having one of the dent, Ray Kelly, ·will do graduate _:1rt gallery cannot remain passive . The new.quarters, which oc-itis hoped· that a catalogue can be members deliver a paper on a pre..:. work at Oxford. . in its display either. .It must try cupy an entire wing ofO'Shaugh-published in a few years. -A short viously selected work,. and to fol­. I 
This year has · been one ofto bring to life the evolution of art nessy HaH, include~ large gallery catalog-of the Art Gallery'.s 17th· low this with an open discussion the most successf~l ever ~th o~­
forms within the context of man's used primarily for contimially and, 18th. century protraits was eitherofthe literary merit .or pre-: er ten papers being presented,
existan_ce; · the image of beauty changing special. exhibitions, .and published-bythe U~iversity of Chi-sented interpretation ofthe piece.. and the· new president is anticipa­
should be 'integrated with the image · four adjacent galleries in which , cago in 1961 in connection with a A highly selective group, the ting an.even better year as a num
of history. An understanding of · portions of the permanent callee-. loan exhibition there, . and a study Bookmen is open to students froni her of projections for papers have
mankinds continuing .search for tion are rqtated throughout/the · of a parallel group of 17th and 18th all colleges of the university who already been ·given. these in­
.forms· meaningful .for his moment, year. The. entire gallery wing is ce~tury landscape and figure com-have an interest in literature and . elude among others Milton's poem
not only helps to prevent a relapse, air conditioned and humidity con-. positions was published by the Uni-feel qualified. The Bookmen were 

but creates an _insight into one's trolled for theconservation.'ofthe versity of Illinois in 1962 for ano_-even graced for the 'first time.by own time. . ' : ther · loan exhibition. Selections one application from SMC.
works of art. 
· The Art Gallery here at from -these exhibitions are now' . Even though the works con-Notre Dame is trying to bring to­touring:the country under the aus-sidcr_ed this year generally were gether· a colle~tion of art objects GALLERY TODAY pices of the· American Federation modern novels, next year's pre-. of superior quality from all p~r­Shortly . after· the collection • of Arts. sident Frank. McConnell plans to iods and. cultures. . The quality was moved from the Hbi.-a_ry-to the ·again leave the final selection to . and diversity of the objects will new gallery, iians.'Fietz·e, ·a dis-· , ; . • · the ·members; although exerting · 
. . . . An_ ex_te__n,s1ve program of lee-his_: preference for. Seventeenth · ·. hopefully be presented with a sen-· tinguished scholar, was brought in t d 
se ofhistorical organization. The to .cull . out all works .of infez:ior .•. ures an informal dis<::ussionS, in Century. literature.. . . . · addition to the courses in a7t his-The total ·membership for
center ofan art gallery's activity 
,tory and thep_ractice of art, imple-next year will be thirteen althoughshould not be to collect works of quality, and. only. tho~e which he . 
m_ent the desire of the Art Gallerythe constitution has a maximum
art merely but also to use them. 
endorsed were to be <exhibite'd, .ex-·. 
a_nd. ~he Art -De~artment to ma_keoftwenty~five. To remedy this theThe art gallery has in the •· first · cept for a_smallgro·up ,vh.i~h Tietze t~e visual ar;s an important and m""Bookmen will hold interviews someplace ~n educational function.in· 
suggested be.sent'':i.s'ide.for.study. 
!~gral part o,f every student's edu-time next fall. Asumlrier list of! . the profoundest sense. At this time an enormous conser­
.____.. _ , -• -,,.#'I/ cation at-Notre Dame · -ks. · ·.
~ ~ 
. . · · • · boo , to be compiled by club se­N9TRE DAME COLLECTION.. vat1on problem ·existedJnvolving cretaryJeremiah Courtney, is onepaint loss, dirt, and indisc~imin­· JOHN HOWETT · of the new proposals by which much· The history of Notre Dame's ate over_:..painting... ,A 'pat)ent,and Curator, Art Galleryof the reading. can be done during
1rt collection goes back very ea-. steady program. for-cleaning:anc:i the .vacation to facilitat~ quick re­
dy, to around .1850. The first conservation was begun and is still sumptionwhen classes begin again. 
~ollection was totally · destroyed. going on. JY fire in 1855. A new collection 
"Samson _and Agonistes", Kingsly Aimes, · Lucky Jim, and Tobias Smollett's Roderick Random. 
The faculty moderator for next year will be Mr. Edward Vasta of the English Department who will sit in and aid discussion.· 
.'The general major of the members of the Bookmen is in the field of English, but there are a few exceptions, notably a Physics major. 
.. Next year's members . in­clude Mes,srs: Amann,· Courtney, Craft, DeAngeles, Devlin,Duncan Haddad, Hernan, Farrell, McClin­tock, .McConnell, Pesta, and Zyck. 
THE FANTASTICKS · •l\I~y 9, 10, 16, 17, 18 
8:30 . Washington Hall 

Y,US started . but was not substan­! · .i~!Jy estaplished until alarge p°i.1r -,
l.!has~:;\Vilr..11~~;!eJ Yl •,l~.:t7p!?f,nai?t­
• ,,._~ f .,l ~~•"• ''" . ''!-f: ·, 





PAGE 4

Voi.1 No.4 !\Jay 2, 1963 


Irish Rallies Topple Ohio U. 8-7 16-6 
Plenty of timely hilting and some outstanding re­lief pitching by Ed Lupton andRichRustcckhclped lift 
·the Irish's winning :itrcll.k to ten last wceken<l Ls Jake Kline's Notre D:unc nine trounced Ohio University 16-G after edging them 8-7, 
Shaun Fitzmaurice, a Wellesley, I\Iass.sophomorc who has hit in all sixteen Irish tilts, smashed afast ball over the left-center field fence in Athens with two men on to provide the 
· margin. in Notre Dame's 
· 8 -7 conquest on Friday. The homer climaxed a l:ite­inning fi~c run outbul·st · that brought the Irish their 
·twelfth t•ictory in fifteen contests. 
On Saturday, Ohiobuilt up aG-1 leadagll.inst south­paw Phil Donnelly over the first five Innings and then withtwooutsJoh11 Matthews doubled and Jim Woolwine walked. Catcher, Mike 
.Rieder singled for ono ··un, as did relief pitcher Rich Rustcck and captain Dave Hansen.. In the seventh, Fitzmaurice beat out ~ hit dom1 third to keep his hit­ting streak alive, went to second onfootb:ill h, lfbhck Tom MacDonald's sacrifice and scored on John Coun­sell,'s single. 

k ::;\/:\xt~??:}I;1 
...· :RIGHT FIELDER JOHN COUNSELL vmo WENT 6 
·FOR  8  LAST  WEEKEND  
AND  LIFTED  HIS  BA TO  
. 356  


ABZ BUFFET 
RESTttUIUNT. 1533 \V. ~ample AT-796H Catering Service Free Estimates 
. WOO"DW,01<.._'TH S'TO'l{AGE 
ar;d 'f1(ANSFE1( IN.C· 

409,11 So. St. jc11ph Agmu For Ail,rd V.111 Lim.; ..;\-!OVING, S'TD'.l(ACjE, PACKIN(j 
CITY MOTEL  
1631  Lincoln Way East Af 8-5168 ·.  
Room& anil.11.I.. for N.D.  
. ' '  footkll ~amco; male reacr,;.. fi~ns no;,, Also uJew left for ·  
Co~mcnccmcnt.  

.'/ 
With the score tied, the Irish began scoring with Yankee -like ease while 
1Ohio began fielding with Met -like abandon. Notre Dame sandwiched three hits with three Ohio miscues in 
· the eighth to take theleacl, and then picked up some in­surance markers and added to the insult with a two-out six run bai:rage in the ninth. 
Notre Dame opened the 

•season vtith an impressive show of batting prowess ::-:: l\fatthews poked a three run 
'homer run, Woolwine went four for six and MacDonald collected two dou~le and two singles to knock in five runs and· personnaly out ­score Indianaas the Hoo-· siers fell 20 -3. Indiana scored only nine runs the following day, but it was enough to top the Irish twice 3-2 and 6-5. 
Homers by Matthews and Hanson sparked 6 -3 and 13-5conquests at Cmr:p Le­
. Jeune, North Carolinabe­forc the ::;oldiers scorod an 8 -•1 victory. Notre Dame· began its winning streak with 4-3 and 6-2 wins over the then fourth ranked team in the nation, Duke. It was in the second game that Irish pitching. began to be noticedas Al Cooper pitched a two hitter. Rich Rusteck. followed his lead with a two hitter of his own against. Elon as he retired-the lasf nineteen men he faced. Ed Lupton completed the Irish 7-0, 9-2 sweep with a one­hitter in the finals. · 
Mickey Walker's four hit­ter paced Notre Dame's 
. opening 4 -1 victory over :. Fort Lee and then former battingpracticcpitcherRi.cll:. Tushla had some batHng 
.practice ofhis ownas he had · a single, a homer and a. sacrifice fly for five rbi's in the second contest which · Notre Dame won 17.'..2. 
Toledonext felt the Irish might as they dropped a doubleheader 14-3 and 6-3 · to close the spring tour. 
Fitzmaurice is still the 
·teams top slugger, though his average dropped : 22 · poi~ts lastweekend to. 397. Gonski's. 362 is second and Counsell's . 356 third. 
INDIANA. PRODUCTS COMPANY 
The /llcCaffery Co., Inc. 
Wholesale Dl•tributors of Electrical Apparatus & Supplh ¦ 
Westlnghause Appliance~, ~ 
Television 
& Stereo • Fidelity 
216 • 22 E, Wayne St. 
CE 2-4821 

Concrete. 


Products 
Corporation, 
.Something··:fle,,r: The ~aw-Gee 
...·•.· , .... 

· .Coach .Hugh Devore has •. on~ of the ends to fall back gone the the rants of t~_e pro · 'undhavc more freedom for teams for the Irish offense, . pass re~eptlo~. JimKolly, 1963 style. It wip be a at' .right ·~nd;: and · Jack flanker offense: ·. utilizing . Snow, ·at ourside ,back, will 
· .. but two running backs. ·.on · · . bo the .principle targets of .most plays with a wido -quarterbacks Huar.te a!ld: spread 'outside'.' backwho.· .. Szot•.E~ds Toni Gobervme; 
•sets down .on,tho line , of: Dave Pivec,· and Bob.Papa .. i:,erimmagc. , T~i_s enable~, ., ·will also be pulling In 'aer:-· · 
:.• ~,; . : .~: :\':--.-·~\,,-..,,tjr)i,;1(':,•.:,-i~
',::.. ' " .\·,·~. :...,•·' :~ ''. .. ' ·>; ~ . ' ,..... ·.• •. 
\· ,.: l· ':.;-· ..·: .' >,. .,-:··'-'. i: ··-~· :· Ci:1 ·--,... •iy"-; ,, . ,: . 
~ •"" ·xi: 
~1 •• 
• ,I 
:-;."'° \\~• ,1f • 

JOE KANTOR (11) HAS GOT1.A1;i EYE 'AND:~N Aiu,( OUT FOR DAVE PIVEC (80) AS·.~9B.LEH:r.!Alq6.5), · .,· JIM CARROLL (57) AND TOM GO~E.RVILLE.· LOOK,; 
0 . ... 

Netmen ·Split 
This. past weekend the 
powerful Notre Dame tennis· 
te:im brought its-record to 
10·-2 by defeating Ohio · 
State, said to have one of the best teams in the mid-· ·wests..,. 1, and then drop-· · ping a . 6 -3 match to the. University of Michigan ,. 
•.Spring Scrimmage · ­
Last Saturday. afternoon 

: found a crowd of more than a thousand at. Cartier field for the initial game scrim­mage oft~e s~ring practice season..As.players and 
. . spectators alike sweatted under hot April sun~ Coach Devore ·and his staff were 

' busy ·evaluating ·the efforts of the 163 Fighting lrish.. · Following the prelimin­
. ary calesthentics and drills, the first andthird teams be­gan the action unde~ ·the .close .scrutiny of.our own beloved 'FrankBudka, who ·· acted ~s' referee. Thefirst . teamdrovemostofthe. way downfield to score · with quarterback John Huarte.. ably mixing passes ·. and 
_ground plays: Tom ~<;>~tel­nikat centor andlinebacker for the 3rd team showed himself. .to be an accurate diagnostician. of Huarte's moves as he· repeatedly 
·called the type and direc­. tion°oftho plays before the · snap. The blocking· of the .first team line was impres­
·sive and hard-nosed. The 

.return of Joo Kantor to his fnllback slot .after an ab­sence of a year w:isa wel­
·.. come sight; one of his runs . left would -be' tacklers sprawling inhis wake· and brought cbeers .from .. the otherwise 'silent ·er.owe!. Jack' Snow, taking over Daryle· Lamonica:s · old ·chore, hf:\d several very good punts. . , The second and fourth teams tookto the field soon ·aftor and showed the crowd some exciting football. The brilliant offensive and .de­.fensive work of . lreshi'n.an . fullback Pete' .Duranko paced the' ~ecorid team·_' .·i\l­·1hough this _pai:t of -'the ''day's action was·slopp/at . · times; . '.both teams''' gave fine accounts ofihomselves. · Despite the fact that ·this.was it's first real ac­.tion.as ..a team, the whole squad was very impressive and promising. · · 
. .. :· ·, ·. ·., -'. :, .. '. 


·.fn.WeekendPlay. · 
the defending Big Ten champion. Michigan over­whelmed the Irish in singles play asnui'n.ber two man Paul Katthain posted a 6 -3, trimn.ph in Notre 
. Dam.e's ;sole singles con­quest. · 
The results oftheir rug­ged Easter Tour show that only a 9-0 loss to Southern Illinois; anationally-rank-. ed independent, prevented 
. the Tom Fallon lead ND netman.fromanunblemish.:. 
.ed record.before last week-, end's .action; Purdue, Louisville, Vanderbilt, 
.· ·Murray College, . Iowa,·. Washington University of St. Louis, Bradley, Illinois· und Depaul were set back by the Irish in that order. _The 6 -3. victory over the •-Bears at Washington pro­. vided an extra-added attr­action. Thirteenth ranked Carole Hanks embarassed . ~ne of our top regulars to give other net teams a lit­
, tle more reason to refuse to play her. Perhaps what . , was started at Tulane should .have stopped at Tulane• Pacing the Irish netmen 
this.season· have been Joe Brown:· from Seattle, Paul Katthain, a sophomore from 
Mexico City, andJimGoetz · ··or Cleveland. Brown and .· Katthain ate the. team's 
.·. strongest men in singles 
· play. Backing them up are Bob Vosburg, . Jim Davidson,.JohnClancy, and Ruben Carrideo.. Indoubles 
competition, · Brown . und .: Goetz, · Clanoy and Katthain 
: performed exceilen!ly on the tour, butrecently Coach · Fallonhas changedthe com-· binations to Brownand Kat­thain, Vosburg and Goetz. 
The Irish • Opened their home. season on Tuesday
I . . • • 
against Northwester, a team which has two nation­ally. 'ran.ked playors on its squad..Tomorrow, the Irish tangle with Michigan State. 
' in an attempt tifavcnge last ./.Saturday's defeat. OnFri~ .':day.and Saturday, May 10 -'. ·andi1, N~tre Dame is host i ·10· a Qiiactrangular meet. 
'witii' Iowa, Indiana, and ·, :::',Western Michigan:. Inaddi:-:' ;;,:tion;-· 'ln the·last dual meet ; ofthe season, tho Irish .will , '.-: again fnce Southern Illinois•.. 

ials for the Irish. As things stand now, Hon Biliey ls in the 'running' back slot backed ~p by Biil Pfeifer and freshmen Niel, Eddy and Bill Wolski, thd only underclassmen to crack In­
. to the second team. 
'Backs ·non Hogan and Frank Budka are expeotcd to sec action,.in the fall, but bec~use of injuries arc not presently working out with the squad. Hogan ,will probablybe used in the run­

. ning back spot and Budka primarily as adefensema~. 
'Jim Snowden and Paul Costa.will need. credits to gain eligibility. Defensive halfbacks, McDonald,pre-: . sently onthe baseball_. tearri, and Philips, \vho ts now ii:i,­
jured, are slated to add -·' • . much to the defensive. al­lignment.· 
••'Tackles Penman and Huminek, guards Bednar ~nd Lehman, and . center Jim Carroll compose the .bulwark of the line. They• . are ably support~d by Rich,. · 
.Arrington, Ken Magllcic , .. :Norm Nicola, . Vince Den­.. \;cry, Mike DiCarlo, Wayne 
·· ·. ·. 'Ailcn, and Nick Etten. 
. . .
~ 
With this cxpcrien~c and depth, plus the natural im--:. petus giving a team under a now head coach, the hope that'Notre Dame will finally 

· give its fans a winning sea­son rises anew. 
'HAW' FORMATION 

x (o. b. )' K_ E,_(r. e.) 
x. .x 
(r. b. ) (f. b. ) 
This is the basic setup of· Notre Dame's "Haw"forma.: tion. Specially adapted by Coach Devore, it greatly adds to the potential air at­tack of the Irish. Right end JimKelly, has moreversa­tility and is enabled to r~n added patterns. On the lin.e, JackSn9t, the outside back, may also· act as a pass re­ceiver. In the otherversion of this pattern, the "Gee" formation, the outside back lines up on the left sideof· ! the line and the left end ! drops back. 
I' 
SHORTS 
·..The Notre Dame golf team, with a·4-1 record in dual competition, dropped all three games in their quadrangular: match with Michigan State, Northern Illinois, and Ohio State last weekend. Jim Hiniker's 76-78cardpacedthelosers. 
JackTate has announced that Notre Dame will field a Lacrosse team nextyear. Tate is currently arranging a schednle with the hope that the team will gain var­sity status in a few years. 
A meeting will be held next Thursday night for all those· interested ·in trying out for the new sport. 




Mastic Corporation 
CROWN STUDIOS Photos by Appointment in· your home 1026 E. Indiana .AT 7-3454 








