

r·· 
Mock Election Tomorrow To Show Students' Choice 
As a sequel to last year's Mock1 Off.:.campus students may obtain· Convention, the Academy of Poli-and cast their ballots tomorrow tical Science will hold a Mock . between the hours of II:00 a.m. 
Election tomorrow. 
The voting procedure has been carefully thought out in an effort to stimulate a heavy--and there-l fore possibly a more accurate-­vote. Election ballots will be· slipped wtder the door of each of the rooms in each of the halls to ensure that every student re-. ceives one. This will be done to-'• night, The actual balloting will take place tomorrow between the hours of 10:00 and 12:00 PM in each of the residence halls. 
'11.'111/IE 

OF NOTRE Jf/JAlHJIE 
Volume 3, Number 5 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana October 28, 1964 
Conjerence Approves ·Dept. 
by Rick Schlee! 
On October 10, a new dimension was added to the academic com­plex of the University when it made the final decision fo estab­lish a department-of psyscholgy in the College of Arts and Letters, An advisory committee of eight . eminent psychologistsandeduca­tors met in a series of intensive discussions with c.s.C, the Dean of the Graduate School: Rev. Paul Beichner, C,S.C. Vice-president for Academic Affairs; Rev. Ches­ter Soleta and Rev. Charles Shee­dy, C,S. C., the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. The countil consisted of Professors James 
Fordham University: Nicholas Hobbs, George Peabody; Dorwin Kelly, Ohio State: Anne Anastasi, Cartwright, Michigan; Jeror.-,e Kagan, Harvard : Alan Mirsky, 
-
and I:00 p.m. in the Rathskeilar of the Lafortune Student Center, 
The ballots will offer the stu­dents a choice between voting a straight party ticket or voting solely for one of the presidential candidates, This isbeingdonc in an attempt to see if there is a significant difference between the number of • young voters-to-be who indicate they would cross party lines and the number of voters. who apparently do so in the November 3 elections. 
Hoston University; Donald King, Purdue, and Roger Russell, Ind­iana, 
They came with a common pur­pose--to share with Notre Dame their organizational ability and years of education and practical experience in the fieldofpsycho­logy, 
The discussionswereconcerned with the specific nature of the new department, which will be open to graduate a swell as under­
graduate students, Fr, Sheedy stated that the "pro­gram of studies will be centered on the person and on contempor­ary society," . and will be "ex­perimentaI and developmental in. 
· . Fr. Sheedy stated thatthe "pro-:­of studies will be centered
, 
Jim Muller, (left) Badin hall president, acknowledges receipt of the first place trophy for Homecoming displays won by Badin. Tom Oddo made the presentation. 
Sophomore Named Queen, 
Badin, SMC Win in Contests 
Sharon Burns, a 19 year old sopliomore at DePaul in Chicago, was crowned 1964 homecoming queen by Rev; Theodore M Hes­
. burgh, C. S. C., at the Spirit of '76 ball ;last Friday, Members ofthe queen's court were Mary Jo Burns. Caryle Capparelli, Liz Bermingham, Arlene Oulette and Susan Walker. 
The queen rode in the head car in the Homecoming Parade ·on Saturday, . leading the five floats and ROTC drill units, SMC's . Irish had, "Feather your cap" . 
At half-time of the Irish-Stan­
ford game, Jim Muller, Badin 
hall president, accepted the a­
\Vard for first place in the hall 
homecoming decorations contest, 
Badin' s · exhibit was a rocket 
"blasting off" with the help of a ·borrowed crane. 
Walsh Hall was second, with a 
music box that traded the devel­
opment of Notre Dame football 
through the 76 years with record­
ings commenting on the records 
of four victorious Notre Dame 
football eras, 
Results ofthe Mock Election will be announced Friday by means of posters and \VSND, In addition to announcing the result of the elec­toral vote, the Academy will also give the result of the election in. each state will be given. In cal­culating the winner, the academy will use the results of bothNotre Dame's Mock Election and a sep­arate one to be held at Saint Mary's College. 
All voting will be under the SUJX!rvision of members of the Academy of Political Science, Al Diefenbacher, vice-president of the Academy, is acting as the chairman of the Mock Election. 
on'the person and on contempor­ary society," and will be "ex­perimental and developmental in character --not of a clinical nature," 
It will be mainly concerned with 
research and not theraputics. As 
a fowtdation for an undergraduate 
major the new course will make· 
use of math, the biological scie­
nces and statistics. 
These results were also pre­
sented to the advirsorycommittee 
of the College ofArts and Letters 
in their meetings of October14­
15. Mr, William Druex, pro­minent • New Orleans attorney, N·otre Dame graduate, andchair­man of the committee echoed the views of the entire committee when he admitted his fervant "pleasure and pride in the work of the College of Arts and Letters,'' 
He expressed wishes for their 
continued success not only in their new department, which he \vas assured would play apromi­. nent rple in the growth of the Uni­versity, but also in the modern, · versatile, methods and foresight of Notre Dame's largest college. 
Scheduled to assume its new position in the academic seme­ster-of 1964-65, the· department will be staffed by a numberofin­structors now in the process of joining the university. Initially the department will be open to 45 graduate and 70 undergraduate students, 
Students· Explore Continent 
by Dick Veit 
VIENNA, Oct. 16, Four days re­main before classes begin in Innsbruck, and Notre Dame's 51 students abroad. are spending their ·last days of vacation in Europe's cultural and culinary capital. 
Summer school classes inSalZ­burg ended Sept. ,19. Fr. Engleton presented us each with. $5 for each of the eleven days before registration began in Innsbruck, and we were on our own. Then, after five days of registering and getting settled in Innsbruck we were again free to explore the continent for a week, before re­assembling in Innsbruck for the group trip here. 
During those two vacations there were Notre Dame menhltch-hik­ing through Czechoslovakia, 
and smuggled commandeered at Notre Dame. At mealtimes East German flags through Ber-· we are served by waitresses and .lin's Checkpoint Charlie, are probablythefirstNotreDame 
On returning to Innsbruck we students to purchase-wine or beer were shocked to find the city with meals, snowed in. Those ofuswhocame We will take half our classes at through the Arlberg, Brenner, or the hotel and the rest at the Uni­Aachen Passes onmotorscooters ·versity of Innsbruck. In addition 
· were. suddenly hit by snow, freez-to these, we are free to audit any ing weather, and slippery moun-courses taught at the University. tain roads, which resulted in one As a result, we will be sitting in case of frostbite and more than on courses ranging from philo­one spill, sophy, comparative anatomy and 
Along with Fr, Engleton, John beginning Italian (taught, of Turner (a· 64 graduate who acts course, in German) to crimin­as Father'.s secretary and who• ology and one. course called will give .us skiing lesso'ns), and . "Mountains and their D.pigers." a yet-to-be-named.Austrian stu-Despite efforts to live as Euro­dent (who will be available for peans, we have been -unable to . advice_ on Austrian customs), we avoi~ .Notre Dame's football ·are living in a hotel inthe village . fever, especial! y with the Air of Aldrans. Perched on a hill Force, U,C.L.A. games broadcast 270 meters above Innsbruck, the over Armed Forces Radio. What 
by Earl Guertin. Campus-wide elections of Stu­dent Senate members and hall of­ficers for the 1964-65 school year were held on Tuesday, October 
20. Each of the halls elected a senator, a president, and a secre­tary-treasurer;. An off-campus senator was also elected. 
A total o( 2852 students cast 
their ballots, representing a 
turnout of 54%ofthe student body. 
Keenan Hall had a 94% turnout, 
the best on campus, while the 
other freshman halls along with 
Sorin, Howard, Badin, St. Ed­
ward, and Lyons also showed a 
large percentage voting. 
Walsh Hall which has chosen a 
new system for hall government 
did not participate in this elec­
tion. The hall has been divided 
into eight sectors, each with a 
representative in the hall coun­
cil, .From this council a chair­
man will be elected who will rep­
resent• Walsh in the Hall Presi-· 
dent's Council. Walsh will select 
a Senator next week. 
The following were elected as 
hall officers for the coming 
school year•. After. the name of 
. the hall is listed, in order, ine 
Junior Activities· 
Beginning October 31 with a Hal-is beginning its second year this . loween Party at Holly's. week, and lectures on varied 
The Jwtior Class has social topics by men such as Chicago's activities planned for every Mayor Daley and Teamster Boss weekend in 'the near future, ac-Jimmy Hoffa, cording to John Philips, Junior Interviews for positions on the Class Pres. committee for the Jwtior Parent-
There will be a date party at -.Son Weekend will begin on Nov­Clear Lake Lodge on November ember 2. Applications for all 21 and a trip to B2rat on Decem-juniors wishing to serve on the ber fifth. · committee must be in by Octo-
Academic events include the ber 30. student _discussion series, which 
senator, the 'president, and the secretary-treasurer: . 
Alumni-Drew Kershen, n.· J. Harper, Rudolph Navau: Badin-­Bill Bender,· Jim Muller, Mike Read: Breen -Phillips --Mike Crutcher, John Blake, Bruce Morrow: Cavanaugh --Phil Rath­weg, Charles Ryan, Bill Olvany. Also Dillon--Rich Linting, John Klier, Jim Mc Gauley; Farley-­Louis Pignatelli, Stephen Cant­well, John T, Celia; Fisher-­Larry Poliner, Anthony Petrillo Bob Dillenschneider; Howard-­Thomas Madden, Vice Paternos-. tro, William Staszak;.,.Keenan­Chris Murphy, Jerry Carroll, 
-Steve Freiburger: the officers are Lyons--Thom Mulvihill.Paul Knipper. No candidate ran for secretary-treasurer. Morriss­ey--Dayid McMorrow, Larry Allen, Robert Cuccias: Pang­born--Rick Zito, Leonard Sera­phin, Aram Jarret; Sorin--Anton Ulrich, Spike Stein, Robert Pet-. rero; · 
And in St.· Edwards--James Fish, William O'Connell, John" Austin;-Zahm--Frank Yates, Denny Hoover, Pat McGroder: and Off-campus Senator--Tim O'Neill. 
adorned with feathers indicating ·previous Notre Dame football  In third place was Fisher hall, . drinking liter. after liter of 28­:,vith five Notre Dame football proof beer at Munich's spectacu­ hotel has a spectacular view of the city below and itsbackdrop of  with clippings and statistics being sent to usfrom all overthe United  
victories, . took first prize in the  players mounting a numeral "I"  lar Oktoberfest, and climbing the  Alpine peaks.  Our rooms  are  States, the name ofAra Parsegh­ 
float contest, with the Dixie Club  . into place, in a recreation of the  Eiffel Tower, They drove through  large  and  bright,  most  them  ian is revered just as much here  
second and. the sophomore class  capture of Iwo Jima byAmerican  Liechtenstein without knowing it,  equipped with bedet or sofa, and  as in South.Bend.  
·• third.  · soldiers.  ·  gazed. in awe  at the Matterhorn,  generally better than the rooms  

Smelser (cont.)
Issues Out Of The Mire 
hut a listener. (As one who gets his living, in 
The shoddy Presidential campaign is coming to a close and in an effort to discuss the issues in­volved in the opposing political philosophies of the candidates, the VOICE has contacted a leading exponent of Conservatism and Liberalism on campus to find out their views on the questions list­ed · below. Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer of the Department of International Relations and Dr. Marshall Smelser of the History Department reply for their candidate. 
1. 
To what.do you attribute the apparent rise of conservatism? 

2. 
What do you consider the strength, weakness, and function of extra-politi­cal groups in our governmental system* eg. The Jobn Birch Society, Americans for Democratic Action. 

3. 
Do you feel militant communism is on the wane or spread, and how will your candidate help stem these swelling or ebbing tides of communism? 

4. 
Do you feel that in this election per­


Niemeyer-Goldwa_ter 
1. The opposition against Liberalism has become articulate. Liberalism, a gospel of material sal­vation without Grace, has always been opposed by MarXist Socialism. Those who resisted it in the name of tlie classi.cal view.of man and society were 
·scattered and frequently silenced. We have now a number of periodicals and reviews in which the non-socialist opposition of Liberalism has pro­gressively clarified its views, A rapidly increas­ing number of scholars have underpinned this pro­cess with high grade research. Finally, a number of articulate candidates for public office have en­abled something like a conservative movement to crystallize around them, In Goldwater, thismove­ment has now found a highly attractive President­ial candidate. 
2. The question is not clear, Most people would 
consider the two groups named political groups, What is more, their ·influence is quite different. ADA is a vehicle for the most radical formulation of the Liberal world view, a kind of Office for the Propagation of the~_Faith on the Left, The J~hri 
Birch Society has no flimilar function on the Right. It seems to confine·itself to local practical action. 
3. 
l\lilitant Communism has been steadily expand.:. . ing, now in this, then in another part of the world. The policy of "Peaceful Co-existence" has turned out· to be extremely·advantageous to the Kremlin. Under its cover, Communism has obtained foot­holds, or something, better, in the ivliddle East, Africa, Latin America, and South East Asia (all since 1956), and has moved very far towards a dis-=­rnantling of the resistance to Comrnunism which the West built up in the 'fifties. Our government now proceeds on the assumptionthattheCommunist threat has disappeared or is disappearin~ This is the same kind of illusion under which the wooden horse was moved into Troy. Goldwater is free from this illusion and wiU-move American policy back onto the ground of reality. 

4. 
Goldwater has soughttodebatetheissues,There are now at least six major speeches of his, each spelling out his thinking on a certain area of pub­lic policy,· The Democrats' answert "lie policy. The Democrats' answertothishas con­sisted in charges ofl'irresponsibility,' ~ "extrem­ism," and "trigger-happiness." As a result, the issues were not debated, and the public began to see the contest in tenns of personalities and smears, 

5. 
The new men in the Kremlin and the A-bomb in China do not alter the nature of Com~unism and its threat to the Free World. A shift in US foreign policy is required, not by these events, but by the unrealism of the · policy, our·alliance system has deteriorated to the point of dissolution, The Lab­ouf victory in England only accelerates this pro­


. cess. Goldwater has announced a planforthe call­ing of an Atlantic Conference and the re-constitu­tion and re~dedication. of the Alliance. 
6. Goldwater's most appealing quality is his com­bination of common sense with a character of pro­found integrity, Here is a man whose thoughts and feelings are not dominated by the worship of the bitch-goddess, Success. His religious faith is deep and governs his entire life. He has a strong and ever active .sense of moral cleanliness. He sees government as a public order of man writ large, rather than an opportunity to organize a prolifera­tion of "programs" each putting more bureaucrats on the payroll, more money into government's hands, and more votes at the Party's disposal. I believe that Goldwater's character and integrity will restore to this cowitry a sense of purpose and order which it has not had for more than a genera­tion. His common sense means that he does not wear the blinkers of ideology. Hecan see realities for what they are, Under Goldwater, we.shall have a foreign policy, instead of drifting with eventsand 
substituting "resort to the UN" forUS policywhen­ever we have to do . something. 1-e will re-build our alliance system, give us direction and hope in our dealings with communism, and free us. from the seductive but also paralyzing notion that federal compulsion is the (over-simplified) solution to what ever.we feel is amiss in our society•.. 
sonalities or issues are having a greater influence on the voter? 
5. Do you feel a shift in American poli­cy is probable or needed in view of re­cent happenings? i.e. Ousting of Khru­shchev, A-bomb of. Red China, Labour victory in England. 6 What do you consider your candidate's most appealing political features, and what would possibly be his administra­tion• s greatest contribution to the• U.S. and the World in the coming four years? 
Smelser -Johnson 
I. It is not apparent to me, Self-conscious Con­servatism, with a capital "C", has been a con­sistent force, with about the same proportion of political strength, since the home rule stirrings of the 1760' s. Such Conservatism gains political power only in crises oflongduration. Long dur­ation. Long crises tax the emotional endurance of ~ople. They look for short-range, quick so­lutions to end a tension which is hard to bear. Then they passSeditionActs, Fugitive Slave Acts and constructive treason laws, or, less positive­ly, they set out to learn who in this country'is to blame for the French Chinese, orRussian Revo­lutions. 
Unconscious conservatism, the eclectic ap­proach to politics, as opposed to the doctrinaire approach, is a native trait of the_ American peo,­ple, who have and apparently intend to keep the oldest constitution now in use,, The American approach in politics has been to repair the leaks in the ship of state, not to scrap it a.nd build a new one. 2, The strong extra-political gr~ups in·our po-. litical system today are the economic lobbies (who write most ofthe public legislative bills, although the bills do not necessarily become laws) and the communications media (who, willingly or un­willingly, create the symbols which we recognize as the men, or believe are the issues). 
The organized political pressure _bqgie§ have generally functioned as forums to examine new ideas, and reexamine old ideas. Sometimes, usually after a considerable delay, the result is the adoption of a new idea {female suffrage) or the rejection of an old idea (slavery). I can re­call none of these extra-political pressure groups which achieved any permanent results in' a hurry, More important, only one succeeded in putting over a really unpopular idea (prohibi-. tion), and that took about 75 years, was forced-through malapportioned legislatures, was never acceptea by the people at large, and was of short iluration. ~ •-· . 
3. Communism must be understood as a proper noun, a doctrine which teaches something. What it teaches varies alittle, at least in applications, 
·from time to time• .The present change-over in Russia makes it impossible to know whether the· missionaries ofthe doctrine west of the Uralsare at present stronger or weaker. Those in Asia seem to grow stronger by the tick of the clock, because· of the growth of their population alone. On the other hand, no socialistic or corporate regime (or even feudal regime) has ever had an 
adequate agricultural system, The failure of 
part, by lecturing, I can not find fault with that!) Mr. J°ohnson grows intellectually. He abandons untenable positions, after sufficient reflection, for better positions, Mr, Johnson respects the institutions he has ornamented, and the good sense of the people over whom he has presided. He accepts final decisions of the American IX',!O­ple as final, 'and proceeds from them into the un. known future. Mr. Johnson is energetic, He does his homework, He has used the Congress of the United States as a kind of institute of ap-· plied political science, in which he has studied 
'hard, so that he can operate empirically on the hasis of solid knowledge of public affairs, rather than by a collection of musty axioms from the mu­seum of intellectual history. To legislate is not easy, To gain the sparingly granted respect of the Congress of the United States isnoteasy, In the performance of his duties he has had little opportunity to show purely executive skill -that being confined mostly to diplomatic and military matters -but in the fraction of his duties which are legislative, as constitutionally appointed ad­viser to the Congress, his performance has been more effective than that of any president since Franklin D. Roosevelt in his first tenn (and Roosevelt's constituents had a greater sense of urgency thanJohnson's). Mr. Johnson, asthe sole elected representative of all the people, and as one who ardently wishes to be agreat President, will give us intelligent, prudent, knowledgeable, and energetic service. 
Events Calendar 
\VEDNESDAY , , , •• , , • , , ••• , • , , • , • , , , • OCTOBER 28 
11:30 a,m. to l p. m. Balloting for Patriot of the Year 
5:30 -7 p.m. Coke Bar THURSDAY, . • , , , •• , • , •••. , • , •• , • , • , OCTOBER 29 7 p.m. New Jersey Club ·Meeting 104 O'Shag. 
7:30 p.m. Semper Fidelis Society Organizational Meeting ROTC Bldg. 
8:15 p,m. "Trojan Women" SMC O'Laughlin 
(also Oct. 30 & 3li · . SATURDAY •••• , •••••••••• , ••••••••••• OCTOBER 31 
1:15 p.m. BigScreenTV for Navy Game Fieldhouse 
1:30 -6p.m. Texas Club Smoker Riverview 
Lodge 2 p,m. and 8 p.m, "The Seventh Seal"· Eng. Aud. 
7:30 -11:30 p.m. Soph & JuniorClassDateParty · Holly's 
SUN'DAy ••••••••••••••.••••••••• •-•••••• NOYE.MEER I 
2 p,m. and 8 p.m. "The SeventhSeal" Siv!C Little Thea. 
7:30 
p,m. Harry Belafonte Concert Stepan Center 

7:30 
p,m. "Trojan W_?.men° SMC O'Laughlin 


r,. TONDAY • , •••• , • , , ••••••••••••.••••••• NOVE MEER 2 
7 -9p.m. l'vlilitary BallTicket Sales Coke Bar 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame students assuming a Dear Editor: 
position of leadership " in this most far-reaching and conse­I was particularly happy to see 
quential crisis of·ourtime s:Civil your · editorial entitled, 'Civil .Rights." 
Rights Involvement'. It indi­
The Civil Rights Commission cates that The Voice is aware 
will provide information for the of the Civil Rights problem and student who is interested in be­
is concerned with it-s solution. 
coming acquainted with both sides 
1 am particularly sorry that the 
of the issue. I would 
Civil Rights Commission had not like to encourage you to continue yet contacte,:l The Voice before. 
your editorials on this important_ 
your editorial. The fault is ours 
subject in the hope that they will because until· last week we were shed some additional light on our still in our organizational stages 
p~oblems,
but now we are a functioning or-Sincerely, ganization. Som you will discover .-A,J,_ Cooper, Jr, that there is, indeed, a group of Alumni 
Russian agriculture can be documented. There 
THE 
UB
is no reason to think the Chinese are going to be 
able to feed themselves. My candidate has not 
told. me his. tactical plans. But the broad anti­
Communist strategy of successive Presidents, · both Democratic and Republican, since the Com­OF NtJTllE DAME 
munist take-over of Czechoslovakia arousedthe _P_u_b_l_i-sh_e_d_w_e_e_k-ly_d_u_n-·n-g-th_e_a_c_a-de_m_ic_y_e_a_r_b_y_st_u_de_nt_s_of-th_e_U_m_·­
West, has had many more successes than fail-versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; ures. 1 see no reason to signal to the bull-pen Post Office Box I. for a pitcher who promises only change-ups, 
Board of Review. , • , • , Rev, Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearen 
4. Issues are the stakesofthiselection. I think EDITOR. •• , • • • • , • , • , , • , , , , , , • , ,BARRY JOHANSON that to most northern, urban and suburban]ohn-Associate Editor:••• , • , •••• , ; , •••••• , •.• Grover Nix III son supporters, Mr. Goldwater may seemto have News Editor:••• , • , • , • , • , ••• ·• , , , •• , • , •• ,John Buckley a more attractive personality, lfitwentby gla-Assistant News Editor:•••••• , • , , , , , •••Bob Lumpkins mar alone, they probablywouldnot go all the way News Staff:.••••••••.••.••Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Terry with LBJ. ,ManyvotersactivelydislikedMr.Nix-Murphy, Dan Murray, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, on in 1%0, Few white votcrsfeelthat way about Al Schulte, Jolm Sibley, Dick Veit, Alana McGrattan, Stephen Mr. Goldwater, so far as I have heard opinion Feldhaus, Ray Foery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schleef, Bill expressed. Siska, Tom Anderson, Pat.· Strickler, Bob Campbell and 
S, These are. not problems to be submitted to Jim Elliott · popular referendum, The information neededto Sports Editor:.•• , •••.•••••••••••••••George Kruszewski make such decisions exists, we hope, but no ad• Sports Staff:, .• , .. , , •• Joe Ryan, Mike Mooney, Mike Read, Dan ministration dare lay it outforev.Juation onNo-Ferguson, Ed Huget~ and Mike Granger vember 3. All the reasons .for Jefferson's shift Business Manager:•• , •••.•• , , , , • , •••• , • , .John O'Hanlon 
in policy after'the death of Pitt in 1806 are avail• able now, but were top secr~t then, The thing. to do is to elect the ·apparently wiser candidate and then judge him by results the next time a­round. • · . 
6, Mr. Johnson learns. He knows when and Where there. are gaps in his knowledge, and he takes steps to fill them. He isnot a researcher, Advertising· Manager:. • , • , ••••••••• , • , •••.••Ken Socha Advertising Salesmen:, • , •. , .......... Gregg and Roger Barron Copy Editors:. •• , , ••••••• ~ • , , , , , Bill Met~ Lou Bartoshesky Layout Editor:. • •••••••••••••••• , •••• , •. Dennis Kern Assistant Layout Editor:~ , •·• •• , •••• , •••• , • , , .Neil Bowen Layout Staff:, , , ,. , , , •• , • , , , , • , , ... , •• , • Steve Vogel Proofreader:. • ••••••••••••••• , •.•• John Radosevich Circulation Manag1fr:••• , • , , , ••• , ••• , •• , , • ,Ted Purvin 
Page 3
October 28, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana 
cac:11:a000cc,1:3r::a --:; 000 
New SMC Drama Head Discusses Year's Plans 
St. Mary's Drama Dept. will 
a nervous energythatoneassoci­
soon begin its season of produc­Mary's opening production, will 
ates with creatiVity. 
tions under the direction of its give Mr. Hayes his first oppor-
Over a cup of coffee, he spoke of 
new head, Mr. Dennis James his background and plans. tunity to display his creative Hayes, Mr. Hayes is an affable talents locally, Explaining his
He brings to St. Mary's the ex­
man who speaks and moves with 
perience of a varied past. His B.S. own attachment to the play, he degree was frOm Loras College said, "I think I have a feelingfor in Dubuque and was in Biology. this play because it so well port­He then went on to the University rays war, the Trojan War in this of Iowa on a playwriting fellow­case, and the sufferings of war, 
ship. He explainsthe changefrom . especially it's effect on the· inno­biology ro playwriting as the re­cent individual." He believes that sult of his contact with creative the play will also appeal to a great writing in one of his classes, and many others. an interest in the theater he ac­
"Next to Medea it's probably one 
quired while a backstage janitor of the most popular Greek plays,
at Clark_College. 
especially with modern audi­
Besides, he said, he simplywas ences, Said Hayes, "We'll use quite apathetic towards a future a recording of the human heart­in Biology. After his yearsat the beat foraudio effects, We're hav­University of Iowa, he spent ing the cast enter solemnly from ? years in the Army and then went the back of the theater at the be­on to finish his education at ginning, all to the drurnmingbeat Catholic University, where he got of the heart, lt'sabitoftheatrlc­
his M.F.A. in 196?. Before com­
alism to create a mood of dignity, ing to St. Mary's, he was an in­majesty, of big tragedy, We'll · structor and director of drama­use music, special costuming-not . 
tics at St. Ambrose in Davenport. just white flowing robes-dancers Trojan Women by Euripides, St. to create moods, and specialeff­ects with silhouettes." 
In January will be the student­
Honor Council Officers 
directed one-acts; and in Febru­az:y will be the Drama Workshop,
Put Code into Practice this year centered around the 
director in the theater. Both of 
Notre Dame now has an operat­ing Honor Code and Council. The better means of operating within· 
these are annual events at St. Mary's. ·
Honor Council at its first meet-that spirit. The long range ob­ing, Sunday, October 18, elected jective is to develop·this spir­Trojan Women, first of the sea­Lance Drane Chairman, Doug it of honor so that the mechanics son, opens October ?9 in Lovejoy corresponding secretary of the Code become less impor­O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
and Pat Cha shill as recording tant than the spirit of the Code.' 

secretary. He emphasized that the Code was At a second meeting on the fol-written 'by Notre Dame students 
f?IK~ RE:PA\~S
lowing Tuesday, the 25_man for Notre Dame' and was not Council laid plans for its initial copied from another school. work as provided by the ·code. He descrired the Honor Council 
Since these initial meetings, members.as being representative 
I090 I 
Council members have been gath-o~ the entire Notre Dame student ering in smaller, more informal body. They are not a clique. 'They 
lz3 PANGBOl2N 
groups to discuss the Code sothat were selected by officials who they can understand it as fully as were elected by the Notre Dame possible. . · student body. Members come 
The method of reporting viola-from all four colleges and include tions is to send to the Council a ~ophomores, juniors, and sen­signed letter, explaining the Vio-1ors. T~ey therefore represent lation and giving all pertinent in-all Notre Dame students.' 
· ...__ ----formation. The Honor Council The new chairman feels the_ has procured Post Office Box 81 Honor Council should not re· just for this purpose. The Council is another organization on campus also obtaining a'n office in the but an embodiment and expres­ba sement of Farley Hall. , sion of the spirit of honor atNot-
Drane believes the Honor sys. re Dame, tern will work because 'the spir-If a person turns himself in it of honor already exists atNot-to the Honor Council, his let­
. re Dame and the Code is just a ter is destroyed if it is shown 
to the teacher,
»~,,,~-~=:s(l•,.=ia:1!·$-=!!c~====~
.  I  
''j  Do you wa~t to be top man?  
If you do ...  
,it always helps to improve  
yourself with Barnes & Noble  
Everyday Handbooks.  
Titles on the following subjects:  
ART & MUSIC  
BUSINESS & ECONOMICS SPEECH ENGLISJ;I-& LITERATURE .POLITICS  I  
HISTORY  
LANGUAGES  
MATHEMATICS  
RELIGION  
.RECREATIONS'  
SCIENCE  
SOCIOLOGY  
STUDY AIDS  
ON DISPLAY AT  
T~e Notre Dame Bookshop  

e The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people -the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. · 
e If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited ·in you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an a·ptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 
NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 
415 WEST 59th STREET 
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019 
The most 
walked about 
Slacks on 
· Campus contain 
''DACRON''® 
Hubbard Slacks 
have a faculty 
for fashions of 
65% "Dacron"* 
polyester and 35% 
combed cotton. 
Styled in Classic 
plain front and 
traditional Gay 
Blade models for 
wrinkl!:l-free good 
looks a_nd carefree 
comfort, at Better 
Stores everywhere. 
*Dupont's registeredtrademark . 

• 
~ 
• 
~ 
,-1
0 ~ 
0 
,-1 
~ 0 
E-4 
~ 
,--f 
eo 
...rlJ -= 
~ 
00 
~ ~ 
~ 
= 
0 
• ,-1 
rlJ rlJ •l'"'"I 
e 
5 
0 
u 

Page 4 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana October 28, 1964 
Irish Bottle Up Stanford For Fifth 
Step on Stanford 28 6 
Frustrated on the ground, Stan­ford quarterbacks DeSYlvia and Cook tried the air route._ They got 15 away for 55 yards on 4 completions, Three were inter­cepted by the Irish secondary, and Tony Carey grabbed his sixth. If 
· there could possibly be any con­solations for Stanford, it wouldbe in the punting of Don Lewis. He kicked 9 ~imes for a 44 yard aver­age, __ _Apart from a slipping problem 
'on the turf, the Irish offensive 
machine rolled smoothly. Ken Ivan booted a 28 yard field goal with 9:48 to play in the second quarter. His kick hitthe uprights, but managed to sneak through. Twice before, Ivan had hit the up­rights on field goal attempts and. 
failed. 
Following an exchange of punts, Huarte saw Snow double teained, and alertly hit Wolski cutting a­cross field. Wolski ran unmo­
Jested into the end zone to com­plete a 57 yard play. Ivan's kick was wide, but the 9-0 leadwasall that the defense needed. · 
Staubach Should Be Ready 
·In a joyous reversal ofCuster's · managed only 43 yards. . 
last stand, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame slaughteredStanford 28-6, Even thiswide margin of victory does not indicate the utter futility of the Stanford chm. But for a fumble by Joe Kantor and, an end zone interception of a Huarte pass in the first period, the final tally could easily have 
been 40-0. 
A glance at the statistics made Irish eyes sparkle, Notuntil7:55 of the third quarterdidthe Indians pick up a first down. Stanford left Notre Dame_ Stadium With just four. In comparison the Irish had 29 first and tens. Irish rushing defense remained the best in the nation after five games. They have allowed only 135 yards in these games for an amazing fig­ure of only 27 yards p;r game to rival backfields•. 
Ray Handley, Stanford's leading ground · gainer and before the game the top rusher in collegiate ranks, was superblycontained. In 19 cracks at the IrishBarrier, he 
Instead of putting the game be­yond reach in the third quarteras has been the· custom, the Irish did it this time in the second. Tony Carey grabbed a wayward De-Sylvia passwith less than a min­ute to play in the half. Huarte kept the attack rolling with four quick passes. One second was left on the_ clock. In the play of the game, Huarte faked a handoff 
. to fullback Kantor and then pitch-· ed out to Eddy who scampered over from the two yard line. 
'Wild' Bill Wolski closed out the scoring for the Irish in the seconci half. On a fourth down play~arly in the third quarter, Wolski went over left tackle to make it 21;..0. Joe Azzaro kicked the extra point 
.for a 22-0 Irish lead. 
On the second play of the final period, Wolski ran9 yarosaround right end for six more points. He vias stopped just shy of the goal in a try for two more, Wolski had a great day, amassing over IOO yards on the ground. 
This Saturday the Irish will 
travel to Philadelphia to meet 
Navy. Going into last year's 
game, Navy had a 5-1 record and 
was heading for the Cotton Bowl. 
This year Navy brings a 2'.'"3-1 
record into the game. What is 
the difference? 
Graduation left Navy ali~ethin 
in some positions, particularlyat 
·end; however, most of the thirteen 
returning lettermen had been key 
p;rformers last year. ·Because 
he had a strong and experienced 
first unit, Navy Coach Wayne 
Hardin· decided to usik two-way 
units despite the new substitution 
rule. Hardin tries to start the 
game by using his first team for 
about 8 minutes and then spelling 
them with a new unit. 
The Navy line this year is pro­
bably as good as last year's, Guard Fred Marlin is one of the ·best guards in the· country. 
though Navy will give a little in 
size to the Irish line they are real 
quick. · 
The backfield returnsalmost in­
tact. The one change has been at 
the running haliback slot where _Hardin has been bringingStau­
Kip Paskewich has replaced Johnny Sai, who graduated. Pas­kewich has been more than an adequate replacement averaging close to 7 yards· per carry this 
season. 
Navy fullback Pat Donnelly has 
been hampered this season by a 
twisted knee, but is coming a­
round and should be ready to go 
full speed against the Irish. 
Flanker Jimmy Orr is back a­gain as the number one pass tar­get. And then there is Roger Sta'ubach. Staubach' s ankle in­jury has had a great deal to do with the difference between Navy's record this year and that of last year, 
'Navy has had a series of in-_ juries at key spots this season but .the one to Staubach has been most telling,' says Irish coach Joe Yonto, who has been scouting Navy. Navy's offensive attack de­pends on Staubach' s wide open play. Due to the ankle injury he · was forced to miss one game completely, Since then Coach 
Irish Run.By Spartans 
In a moment of frustration, junior Bob Welsh in third, Ed Michigan State'.s cross-co!llltry Dea·n in sixth, Rich Fennelly and coach shouted: "We don't allow Larry Dirnberger in eighth and 
that here,'" Billy Clark and Mike ninth respectively•. Dean ran in Coffey wanted to cross the finish his first meet after being side­line hand-in-hand, Instead they lined for two weeks with a knee ~an side-by-side for a first-place injury, tie as the Irish crushed the Spar-This Friday the Irish meet Ind­tans 20-28. , · iana's "finest in the state" meet· 
The five-mile race was run last at Indianapolis. Friday at East Lansing on a cold 
bach around slowly, In the Geor­gia Tech game he was used only sparingly, He managed to com­plete six out of twelve passes, but with his timing off had· 4 of 
his passes picked off by Georgia Tech defenders. 
In the Tech game hewasnotable to roll out ofhispasspocketwhen it was broken and scramble in the fashion he did last year. 
Against California the following week he was a little more sue­cessful and finally against Pitt last weekend he was able to carry Navy to a tie. 
In Navy's second touchdown drive, he hit five out of five passes for 66 yards, He also threw to Jimmy Orr for the two point conversion to tie the score. 
'Navy hasalreadyimpressedme as the best team we have seenalf year and now it appears that all their injuries will be healed by the time we play them,' summarized Coach Yonto. 

An honorary member of the Irish "bandit" secondary, Tom Longo tokes off following his fi;>urth period inter­ception. Stanford quarter back Cook was the victim. 
Ara 
Chuckles ·at Statistics 
maining. Also Huarte threwwell and Snow caught well. And Bill Wolski .caught a bomb, didn't he?' 
But he did not praise everything offensive, The failure to score a touchdown in the first quarter 
after they moved so well and the· poor progress of the alternates displeased Ara, 
So to say that Parseghian was satisfied with the performance of his boys is putting it mildly. 'I'm more than impressed by their ef­fort and they are a group of proud individuals, They wanted to win badly and they got their revenge. The statistics reflect Stanford's humiliation.' -Again he laughed. 
The turfapparently gave several players a rougher time than the Stanford tacklers, 'I don't know what the problem is, but I'm go­ing to check it, myself.' Par­seghian indicated that perhaps . there is somethingwrongwiththe cleats. 
_,..._...,_...._...,_...._.._~--.... 
I PUBLIC CAFETERIA ,'
for their drive in the final se­I  South Dining Hall  
conds of the first half. 'They did a ~al good job of mov­i1  SODA FOUNTAlN  ...--1t-,-·  
ing. the ·ball with 53 seconds re-I Cyr's Barber Shop  , Mon. thru Fri'. 7:30 A.M.-9:30 P.M.  t  
MICHl'ANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 100-102 South Maln Street  go Irish  

'They're great, Just outstand­
ing,' acclaimed Coach Ara Par­seghian after his defensive unit held· the Stanford Indians to· just four first-downs and one yard 
rushing. 
'Stanford was unable to move with any degree of consistency,' he continued, 'But,' cautions Parseghian, 'our greatest chal­lenge is still aheadofus. The re­maining teams on our schedule are worthy opponents and possess great quarterbacks.' 
Roger Staubach of Navy and Pittsburgs Fred Mazurek arethe quarterbacks Parseghian had in mind. · 
A good quarterback makes an offensive attack much more dan­gerous, He will compensate for an average line.' 
Parseghian could not help 
laughing as he _glanced at the 
statistic sheet. ' 
'1\venty-nine first-downs••.' he commented, •gosh, that's a lot. John Huarte, 21 for 37, including eight to Jack Snow.' 
He praised his offensive team 
Opposite Court House South &ud, Indiana 

:GOLDWATER Will Make.A President 

.and windy day. · Included in the terrain of the_ course which will be used for the_ NCAA champion:.. ships are hills, marshes and streams, ·Several team members remarked that the route was both challending and interesting. . Behind Coffey and Clark was 
_DR. N. FIZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAiilS 
to 24-Hour Servlc.e . 305 S. Michigan AT 7-5&77 
HOLY CROSS 
Priests·  Brothers  
* Teachers  * Office and  
* Missionaries -* Preachers  * Parish Priests *. Chaplains  * Teachers * Missionaries  '*. Manual * Workers  
* Writers  * Social Workers  
United States  France  Brazil  India  Uganda  
Canada  Italy  Chile  Pakistan  Ghan~  
Haiti  Spain  . ·  Peru·  Liberia  

visit or phone (284-6385 or 284-6497): Father William Melody, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall 
Foto News Li tlio • Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 
