frJlll!E 
Education Center to he.Open Jan. I 

OIF NO'll'JJJlE BAMJE The $1.5-million Kellogg Con­veloped. 
tinuing Education Center should The most striking feature will 
be in operation by January 1966, be the 400-seat auditorium which 
Volume,3, Number 19 University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 28, 1965 
according to Dr. Thomas P. Bev­will have simultaneous transla­
gin, Dean of. Continuing Edu­tion equipment, similar to the
A Voice Tribute 
cation. Already 36 conferences United Nations. Thls will pennit 
are scheduled for the coming the center to accomodate and 
year. expand a program ofinternation-
Thirteen Years of Service The purpose of the center is al conferences. · 
to extend Notre Dame' sfacilities Some of next years conferences Tonight the Notre Dame student or·propelled by FatherHesburgh. sorship of student publications to people outside the university, include a Critisism in the Arts, body honors its president of 13 Fr, Hesburgh' s vision has not is pratically unheard of. 
Dean Bergin emphasized that its Mental Health, Welfare Admini­
years, Father Theodore M. Hes.:-! been limited to the physical plant Perhaps the mostimportant ele­stration, and Solid State Physics, 
aim is not to help adults com­burgh, at a testimonial dinner, · of Notre Dame; as he has said, ment of Father Hesburgh' s drive plete their high school education Dean Bergin says, " ...we will 
It is a tribute well deserved. "the only lasting worksarethose is his tremendous faith in Notre or teach elderly citizens in­invite distinguished people to join Father Hesbu~gh' s concern for of the spirit," The Hesburgh-in­Dame, He believes this institu­
teresting hobbies. It focuses on with the faculty and academic Notre Dame has been manifested spired drive ·for academic ex­tion can be great, and is deter­updating and deepening well edu­resources of the university to 
on at least two fronts. As a mem-cellence has been reflected in the mined to lead it towards great­discuss the problems face
wecated men and women in theirher of the Atomic Energy Com-quality of the studen'ts, ness. It is precisely this ex­today in our society..." When theareas of specializition. 
mission, the Civil Rights Com-College Board scores of fresh­traordinary faith and determi­The new center will provide its center is in full operation there 
mission; and the National Sci-men are 75 points hlgher now nation that we honor tonight. No­will be as many as 200 ~onfer­
o"taff and students with 22 con­ence AdVisory Board, he has than in 1954, and the average tre Dame is--or will ·be--the erence rooms that will accomo­ences per year,
brought for the first time the LQ. is 127, as compared to ll8, great Catholic University. This · Dean Bergin explained in a
date about 1,000 people, ThereCatholic perspective and the No-The number of Wilson, Danforth Father Hesburgh believes. 
will be an audio-visual center speech delivered for Universal 
tre Dame influence into the coun-and National Science fellowships Father Hesburgh, the Voice and theatre where new ideas in Notre Dame night last week that ens of government.· There his · has increased so that inl963 only joins the rest of the student body "our new center for continuing
educational television will be de­interest in science and his con-nine colleges received more than 
tonight in saluting you. education will be available to all cern for human dignity have earn-Notre Dame. those who have a definable and ed respect ro·r him as a man and At the same time, the Notre 
serious educational need." It is 
for the University. through hls Dame student has seen his free­hoped the center will contribute
Circle Elects Chesire,
connection with it. . dorn significantly extended. 
to "an intelligent citizenry.... 
On the campus, Father's sue-Eleven o'clock lights, morning which is able to discover new 
· cess has been even more ob-checks, and other vestiges of the paths which enrich life and free
Inducts New Members 
vious. In the 13 years of his Dark Ages have been abolished, men from hatred, tryanny, greed, presidency, the University has and gradually the strict. cut and The Blue Circle Honor Society Fred Schartz, Forrest Hainline, narrowness and frustrating anx­experienced a phenomenal grow-cu~ew are being relaxed. .,Ceri­elected John Chesire.its chair­Paul Ramsey, Bob Bielski, Vince ieties." 
th, Buildings ranging i_n character 
man for next year and inducted Kohl, John Darrouzet, Henry Bergin said, "It is no longer a from a hotel and residence halls 25 new members Tuesday, April Grinvalsky, Joe Lee, and .Rob . 
question of education for tomor­
to a Germ-Free Lab and Radia..; 20. . Harvey, This brings the total to row. Society's problems must 
tion Lab, from a bus stop to a Founded as a pep club in 1923, 49, an increase made possible be solved today-by adults--' 
$12,000,000 library have been the Circle has evolved into much The generation in command." 
erected on campus, The Notre more than this, According to its Con't on p, 6, 
Dame . budget has more than new chairman, the Circle is doubled, reaching a figure of over "basically a service organiza­$20,000,000. Teacher salaries tion, trying to remain flexible 


600 N.D. Stui!,ents P(l,y 

·. have increased 150% and the re.I enough to accomodate the ever­search. budget 3000%, And the changing needs of the University Tribute To TMH endowment has tripled since 1951, community." . . 
The $18,000,000 Challenge II "Next year. we intend to con-Notre Dame pays tribute to her resent the students in an ex-
drive now in progress was pre­centrate on the student commu-· 
· president tonight, as over 600 pression· of gratitude for the
ceded by Challenge I of the same . nity in particular," Chesireadd­--ed. ____ .. -. ____ ··c.___ -:. :: . • ·-students .are-expected to· gather--thirteen ,years-that Father Hes--· .: _ __:_.,size, and by anearlier $66,000,;.. 
,, in-·the North Dining Hall-to 'ex'-. burgh "has given to the school. .
An English major from Omaha, •
000 Program· for Excellence Rev. Theodore M. H b h . 
drive, All three C.S. C. Nebraska, Chesire was a major press their appreciation to a Presentations will · follow the
were •Initiated es· urg 

m·an whose name has become talks, Mass cards, reflecting the force behing t~e renewal of in_-· equated ,with progress -and · inte_ntions offered for ._ F.at.h.. e.r. 
terest in -Walsh Hall life this 

. achievement. Hesburgh during the S·piii"hall\ ••
Liturgy Changes to be Made 
year with the "Walsh Hall gov-· The dinner . honoring Father masses held today, will be ·pre-.'. > ernment plan.'' He also handled Theodore M Hesburgh, a tribute sented. 
"The difference between the old hopes that all permanent changes . 
public relations for the Circle. form the ·students and arranged Then Hesburgh will receive a liturgy and the new is the differ--will be made by next September. Blue · Circle ·members also by the students, will · begin at large portrait . done by senior 
ence between rubrics and real Plans include building permanent . al
elected Fred Gund, a Lyons H 1 7:15 with an invocation bY Se-artist John Bellamy. The paint;. prayer," according to Brother altars facing the people andcom­Busine·ss Administration major, nior Class President Larry ing of Hesburgh, executed by
James Dorson, c.s.c., Univer-mentator stands to emphasize -vice-chairman and Bob Guenard, 
Beshel. Bellamy form photographs and · sity sacristan. And the change the layman's role, · . 

presently student body secretary Nass Cannon, chairman of the sketches, will also appear on the is already being effected in the There is also .much talk about and ·also from Lyons, as Circle dinner committee, · will act as cover of the .. sixteen page pro-· liturgy at Notre Dame, building another church, possib-secretary.
New members· inducted at the toastmaster for the evening.· gram prepared by the editors ofLast Holy Thursday, 24 priests ly on the east campus whe_re the April 20 _meeting include: After · an introductory note by campus publications. · joined , together in concelebrat-new ·residence halls are to be juniors_ Bill Lynch, DrewKers-Father Edmund P. Joyce; Uni..'. A short performance_ by. the · ing mass, For this years' com-constructed. The need for' such hen, Jay McGowan, Larry Allen, versity executive vice-president, Glee Club and a closing prayermencement, a low mall will be a structure was demonstrated by Jim Schulte,_ Max Graham; and Student Body President John by Student Body Vice-Presidentrecited ,with hymns and dialogue~ the Holy Week services with sophom.ores·. _ Sein.di Sawyer, · Gearen ·and Blue Circle Chair-Steve Walthers will end the pro-­communion will be-distributed at · 2100 persons attendingtheE.aster 
man Ed Burke, will deliver key-gram,_ ­at the ceremony for the first Vigil on Holy Saturday. Dave Buckley,• Tom Madden,

Frank Marasco, Rich McQuaid, note tributes. Nass Cannon, initiator of the
time, Sacred Heart Church can ac-Ted Stransky, Bob Reidy, Bob Speaking on behalf of the entire testimonial dinner, feels that the Under the auspices of Brother comodate • a maximum of HOO.· 
James a has been Burnikel, Dennis Hagerty, Pete student body, Gearen and Burke evening will be enriching. "The
committee Even in Sacred Heart Church it­Tierney, _and Ed Moran. will give their insights into what program will be brief, only about fonried by the local Holy Cross self, there is a possibility of 

· Freshman new members ·are Father Hesburgh has done for 45 minutes to an hour," sayscouncil to propose changes inthe modifications being made in the Notre Dame, They will also rep-Cannon, "but it will be packed." 
hall chapels, Brother James sanctuary, 
Seven .Nohel Winners to be Honored 
the President's Lounge, Notre Twelve eminent figures in the department of physics, · Catholic son, professor of biology atHar-the principal convocation speak­Dame Memorial Library, an opm world of science, seven of them . University of America, Washing­vard ·· University,.. Cambridge, er. house in the several buildings Nobel Prfz.e winners, will re-ton, D. C. ; and Dr. Donald F. 'Mass.; and Dr. Eugene P. Wig-Three lectures on Notre Dame of the College .of Science Sat­ceive honorary doctorates at a Hornig, Special Assistantto Pre­ner, Princeton University phy-science· --past, present and fu­urday (May 15th) from 10:30 a~m. , special convocation Saturday,. sident Johnson for Science and sfcist currently engaged in re-ture -will also be a feature of to 2 p.m.; a President's Lunch".' 
May 15, marking the Centennial Technology and. Chairman-of the search at the Oak Ridge (fenn.) . the centennial weekend. Dr. Law:-:­eon for honorary degree recip­of Science at the University of President's . Science Advisory National Laboratory. rence Baldinger, associate dean ients · and other invited guests; Notre Dame, Committee. Each of the , honorary degree· of the College of Science, will and a Centennial of Science Din­
Honorary Doctor ·of· Laws de-Others who will accept honorary recipients is a member of the speak on the ''History of Science ner, 
· grees will be conferred by Fath-doctorates at the Notre Dame prestigious National Academy of at Notre Dame" in the Memorial Prof. Milton· Burton, director er Theodore M. Hesburgh, Pre-Centennial ofScienceconvocation Sciences. The Nobel Laureates · Libra·ry Friday (May 14th) at 8 · of Notre Dame's Radiation Lab­sident of Notre Dame;' and Dean include Dr, ArthurKornber, pro-:­in the group are Professors Cal-:-p.m, The University's current· oratory, is chairman of the Cen­A. Adrian Albert of the Division fessor and executive head of the vin (1961), Kornberg(l959), Tatum educational program and re­tennial of Science-Committee. of the Physical Sciences at the department of biocheinistry at (1958), Townes (1964), Urey search in science will be de'"'. The group has organized a year­University of Chicago; Prof. Mel-the Stanford University School of (1933), Watson (1962) and Wigner· scribed byDr.BemardWaldman,. long series of lectures, exhibits Vin Calvin, director'of the Law-Medicine, Stanford, Calif.; Prof. (1963), . associate dean of the science and special events to mark the. · rence Radiation Laboratory's Edward L. Tatum of the Rocke.-Father Hesburgh will officiate school, in the library auditorium first· hwidred years of scientific 
.. Chemical Biodynamics Labora-feller Institute, New York, N. Y.; at the 3 p.m. ceremonies in the ' Saturday (May 15th) at 10 a.m. instruction and research at the · tory, University of California at · Dr. Charles H. Townes, provost Stepan Center. Also among those .. Dean. Rossini will follow Wald­University. Notre Dame awarded , Berkeley"; Mr. Crawford H. at the Massachusetts Institute of to be honored byNotreDame is man's presentation with a talk ·its first Bachelor of Science de­Greenewalt, · chairman of the Technology, · Cambridge; Dr. Prof." Michael Polanyi, the cele-on "The Future of Science at gree on June 22, 1865, to John board of E.I. du Pont de Nemours Harold C. Urey. professor of brated physicalchemlst, philoso-Notre Dame.'' Cassidy of ·Chelsea, Michigan, and-Company, Wilmington, Del,; chemistry-at-large, University pher and author from Oxford, ··Other science centennial events who later became a South Bend Prof. Karl Herzfeld, head of the of California; Dr. James D. Wat-England, who earlier was named include a Dean's Reception in physician. · 
A Modest Proposal 
If any· impteus for reform of the room -a·nd inequities should stop, and picking 
picking_ precedurc were ever needed, the can be restricted to legitimate channels. 
recent bloodbath of intrahall and trial The second need concerns stay hall, and 
hall selections should provide ·it. has been brought co light by che experi­
From the confusion, two obvious and ur­ences in the trial halls. Alumni and Dil­
lon managed to make their quotas, but
gent needs have emerged--one tradition­Farley didn't even come close, Only 45
al and one peculiar to this year. The seniors and 19 juniors chose rooms in
first involves the place of the hall rec­Farley; so while it will be a four class
tors in room selection. When three-year hall next year, the proportions will border
stay halls were instituted several years on the absurd. ·· · 
ago, the rectors were handed the juris­If a similar lack of even class distribu­
diction over intrahall selections. Since 
tions is to be avoided in the future, some
then, some rectors have come to look on a sort of enforced quota system appears ne­
hall as their private fief; as a result, -cessary. Such a.system should be insti­
there is no longer any semblance of uni­tuted gradually, -say over a three year
formity in selection ·procedure. In some span, so that no particular class would
halls (e.g., Walsh) ·rectors reserve rooms suffer from _the unpleasant side-effec'ts.
at the asking, dependent more on friend­It would allow anyone already in a hall
ship than average or class. In others, to remain there, and would provide for
like Sorin and Lyons,:whole ~ections can slight variations (perhaps 10%) from the
be closed off to the campus-at-large and established quotas. After three years, the
the people to Live there handpicked. quotas would have-been filled, and the
The imminent institution of the stay hall system would perpetuate itself. · 
system provides ·a natural vehicle for re­The Stay Hall Committee considered a
form of the overall selection procedure. proposal similar to this, but rejected ir
If an equitable system is desirable, and in favor of a system with a shorter period_

· it would seem to he very de~irable, then One thing at least is certain: if Farley

the administration of intrahall picking Hall is any lesson, then an enforced quo­
should be removed from the rectors and ta· system is imperative for the success
turned over to the Office of Student A.c­of stay hall. The only alternative is a
counts, where campus-wide picking is continued repetition of· the class imbal­
done. With intrahall selections thus put ance that is now kiHing three year halls.
on a more formal basis, the favoritism 


-John Goldfarb ·come~ Home 

. Notre Dame might have an easier time seems little short of perversion. The 500 t winning law suits to defend its good name ;.strong crowd who so eagerly awaited the F'--. _if the student body would. behave up to -_· the Thursday. nigh_t performancej as well F'·_:-:~ -the siandards .. of respori'sible. adulthcfod.--::..... as those-there Tuesday and Wednesday, 
1 --h b dF-· ---Undoubtedly' the: scene in the _Rathskel-oug t to e ashame • How can they re• f' Jar last-week would have put Shirley Mac· concile their behavior with their demands Laine and the entire Goldfarb navel ar-for more freedom? And how can campus mada to shame. But while spring time leaders possibly convince the administra­riots are traditional if somewhat frowned tion of the need for student responsibility 
upon outlet for youthful exuberancel pant-if th~ students. compoct themselves like mg -at a sick 16 year old strip-teaser drooling sexual psychopaths? 
I . 
Civi[ Rights: Room for Criticism 

· or-
By Buck McFadden 
.Color Commitment Green 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
I . 
Dear Sir: by other LEPRECHAUN staff members. No question of admin­
1 have no way of knowing ifyour istration censorship was in­record of Robert Farmer'sdeal-valved. The administration has ings with the ·Office of Student always been quite reasonable in Affairs is substantially correct its dealings with us. 

. or not. Thisisbeyondmyconcern The next occurrence which was -or the concern of the LEPRE-of major importance in Bob's 
CHAUN, dismissal -was ·his refusal to_ Your April 7 editorial does, comply with magazine policycon­however, contain some factual cerning cartoon size.' Bob pre­

-___E!~roi:s ~-~ich -~_1:i0 ul<! ~ ..cle3:_3:'Cd _f~rred to do all cartO~Il~?O'EJ~-~---­
up. Robert Farmer did not quit size,and then have them photo-· 
the LEPRECHAUN as the edi-graphically reduced at sub­torial implies. He was fired as stantial additional cost to the LEPRECHAUN Art Editor just magazine. We simplecouldn'taf­before the publication ofourOct-ford this. · ober 1964 issue. One week later The next and last incident in the 
he was fired altogether.Thiswas LEPRECHAUN'S unfortunate re-long before there was any talk of lationship with Bob Farmer in-his publishing his own humor volved a realization on our part magazine, Seen in this light, that the preponderance of the ma-_ Bob's decision to Pl.!1Jlish on his. terial whichwehadacceptedfrom own seems simple seijinterest. Bob.and printed waslineforline, The reasons for the LEPRE-dot 'for dot copying of cartoons CHAUN firing ·Bob were many. from national and college maga­First of all a good number of the zines, He submitted these to us articles and cartoons which he as his own work. ­submitted to us, although well_ drawn, were crude or sexuaily -obsessed. I want to make•it clear ·S~cerely, · that the decisions to reject Bob's Samuel D. McClelland 
In a letter addressed to Dan groes next semester, Bt.rr that order in one's own house that crude work were made by me or Editor, The_ LEPRECHAUN ­
Burns of c,o,N.E,, Mr. Richard the University can afford neither counts._ In this respect, I am 
L. Plaut, President of National·· the scholarship funds nor the cost . somewhat less than• impressed Scholarship Service and Fundfor · of recruiting · Negro students, with our Administration's hand­
THE

Negro Students,· made· these re-· Personally, I·find it difficult to Ung of the housing problems en­-marks: · · believe that the University ofNo-countered by our Negro faculty, "Thank youforyourletter. Your ·tre Dame is financially unable to and even less overwhelmed by 



w 
GIi

aims are worthy, and we will publicize its desire to recruit the ·fact that from a base of zero be happy to work with you, but I Negro students· and· to provide _Negro students prior to 1944, we OF NOTRE DAME, think· to do an effective job, you scholarship and recruitment have "progressed" to 25 (roughly ./will have to get the co-operation funds to implement this desire-15 American and 10 African Ne-
Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni­. · of your Admissions and Financial . if such a desire does indeedexist. _groes) in 1965-a monumental 

versity of-Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; · Aid Office, because uless the It would appear; then, that our e:xample of conscious or uncon-P.O. Box ll. University .wishes to do what so Administration has adopted the scious token integration. many others are doing, i~e., make . somewhat hypocritical position · Of course, I_ realize that Fr. B_oard of Review, •• .,., ·• , ,Rev, Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C, John Gearen a special effort to go afterNegro of being for increased Negro en-Hesburgh can't do everythingand Editor••• ; ••••• ; •••• , ••••••••••••••••••-.Bob Lumpkins candidates and to give them fi-rollment but only on a low must _lean heavily. upon his ad-Managing Editor, ••••• ; , ••••••••••••••• ,Lou Bartoshesky nancial aidwhen theyneeditwith-(miniscular) · _ budget basis. ministrative chiefs, who wlfortu--News Editor, •• , ,·, •• • •••• , •••• ; •••••••••••Dan Murray f out making them compete with Translated with the help of Mr. nately can't do everythingeither: _News Staff•••••••• ,Earl Guertin, Ray Faery, Bob Scheuble, John .
i 
the whole scholarship group, your Plaut's remarks. thiswouldseem thus the wise reliance of the Ad-Sibley, Dick Veit, Steve Fe~us, Rick Schlee!, Mike Gorham, Rkk
!. 
I 
efforts w!ll not be ofmuch avail." to imply that our-Administration -ministration upon student in.itia-Kalamaya, Tom Long, Buck McFadden, Don Pelner, Latanae Parker,
i 
"It niay interest you to know_ actually is not in favor of a pr-o-· tive, Well, C.O.N.E. has shown ,_ Carl Littrell, -Bob Mundhenk, John Mulligan, Al Fong-Tom, Bill ,-that we had some correspondence gressive integration program at some real_ initiative, and until Nage, Steve Rodgers, John Masley, Mike Lonergan, Karen Keres 1 with Dr~ .Alvin S, Ryan of· your--Notre Dame, our Administration gives aggres-Sports Editor•• ; •••••••• • ••••••• • , •• , • , ••Bob Campbelll faculty, and that Dr. Ryan was ---sive support to C,O.N.E, and A_ssistant Sports Editor, • , ·• ••• • ••••• • ~ • ••• • •••Bill Dwyre
r . 
I eager. to do the same sort of · It may be objected that my last "puts its money where its mouth Sports Staff_••••••••Mike Reed,_ Dan Ferguson, Bill Brown, Frank thing that you have in mind. He scatement was too extreme in is/' 1 believe there is room for Marasco,· Jere Locke, Quentin Macmanus, Tom Sullivan, Mike. also :stated that Fr. :Hesburgh view of Fr. Hesburgh' s poSltion legitimate skepticism as to the, Granger, John Corrigan, Steve Kurowski, ChuckVergara, w. Hudson 

was equallyinterested. But in this on the Civil Rights Commission -committment of our Administra-Giles ­cormecdon, we got no expression -of the U.S.· Senate. !,disagree. It tion to the principle of student Business Manager., ••• ~ ••••••••••• , •••••• , ••••Ken Socha 
·ls _all well and good that Fr, initi tive 1·n ge --1 d · ' · k
of interest from the Admissions -Hesburgh -is a member of .that a -nera _an campus Advertising Assistant.·. • • • , • • • • • •• •·• • , ~ ,John Guzaus as Offfce.'' · _ ; Cmnmi hel h i integration in particular. · · , Copy Editor. • ,• • ·• , .•••-••••• ; ••••.-~ • , •• ; .Bob Mundhenk Fr•.Hesburgh. has reportedly . sston: nhonet ess, t,at 5 NEXT-ISSUE: : -. , Layout Editor, •••.••••• , •••• ; ••.; •• , •• .-••• ,Dennie Kern· . . remarked that it would· be en-irrelevant to t e campus mtua-·c · Int · ti' ·A 1 t L Edi · st· V 1··
'. d I . h . i the ampus egra on. -ss stan -. -ayout · tor.· •• ·•• -.-•••.••••,• ; •• ~ •• '• eve _oge · 
i ·· tirely· -pos_·sible to_ e_n_roll 4_0 Ne-tion, an propose t at it 5 L y t Staff · ·-· ' ·' · · Ed B ke · D · Griffi
I 1 a ou •••.• -••• , -••• .-• •-. • • • • • • • _ a r, ave. _ _n __ ! Proofreader. •. .• • -. ~ • •' • -. , ,; ••• , ,: ••_, ••••••Jim tviedeiros · 
l 
.r 
.__________,;.,,,;;.__,.;._______---"---~--....-....--""""---'--'-----'------_,...;.____,;.......;...___llllllllillGl__mlll.:.laa==-----..:,;..--~'---·.::.·I_;__.~_........~-J "1 .. 


Piano Duo to Appear Here 
By John Mulligan 
Ferranta and Teicher, the .''Movie Theme Team" will aP­pear. in concert Saturday, !Vlay 1 at 8:30 P.l'v:I. in the Stepan Cen­ter. 
Their performance here will combine the pop classics with show tunes, and their own ar­rangements of such composers as Gershwin.-Rogers, Kem, and Porter. 
Remaining ticket sales for this . concert will be today and tomor­row in the dining halls, tomor­row from 11:00 A. M till 4:00 
P. M in the social commission office,· and at the door, .If bought in advance, reserved seats' are $3.50, while general admission. seats are priced at $2,00 and $3,00. All tickets are $. 50 more at the door. 
. The personal success of Fer­rante and :reicher will be sum­med up by their six Gold.Record Albums, their three Gold Re­cord· Singles; and by their last 
_'fheology JfajQt Will Be Offered 
Th; Theology Department will . introduce a major in theologyfor -undergraduates this coming fall.· 
Tomorrow night at 7:30 an in­
formal discussion about the pro­gram will be held in .104 O' -Shaughnessy. Father Albert Sch­litzer, the Department head, will 
· briefly outline the proposed pro­gram.In addition, Father John Dunne will speak · about the "New.' Theology'' developing inthe 20th century, ·. Father· Augustin Leon­ard, visiting professorfrom Bel­
. gium, will comment on the ·ca­reer of the "Lay Theologian" in · the world today. 
ONE WAY· 

TRAiLERS BERTZ U HAUL· 
232-1444 Please Call 
Early for Information and 
Reservations. BERTZ U-HAUL 302 Lincolnway East 23'.J.--1444 

three Canadian tours where they 
consistently drew standing­

room-only crowds. Their humor­ous approach to music has also been displayed on television in appearences with Danny Kaye, Perry Como, Ed Sullivan, Steve Allen and Dick Clark. 

Car Accident 
Two ND seniors were injured early S!lllday morning when their car failed to make a curve and hit a utility pole and a tree. The car caught fire but the two stu­dents were pulled from the wreckage by bystanders, 
The pair, Edward Lyznicki and Charles Hall, live off-campus, · Both remain hospitalized, 
Lyznicki suffered severe scalp · cuts, a concussion, and multiple· bruises and abrasions, Hall had facial cuts and a possible skull fracture, · 


EUROPEAN TOUR 
University of.Notre Dame 21:.day"Tour, visiting_ England, Belgium, Ger1nany,. Switzerland, Italy and France, . Frying from New York July. 27th. All inclusive: $665:00:-Twin-bedded-room with bath wher1e available, all meals, sightseeing by luxury coach, etc. Open to students, relatives and friends. · 
For .further information, contact Peter Seifert, 44 Lyons Hall, or Catholic Travel Office. 1436 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036 i 
_,__________________________"'""iii' 
BACK TO 
CLASSES .•• 
Prepo.red for every course with .•• 
BARNES & NOBLE College Outline Series 
famous educational paperbacks perfect for learning and reviewing, Over ,100 titles ·on 
the following 1ubjects:  
ANTHROPOLOGY  LANGUAGES  
ART  LITERATURE  
BUSINESS  MATHEMATICS  
DRAMA  MUSIC  
ECONOMICS  PHILOSOPHY.  
EDUCATION  PSYCHOLOGY  
ENGINEERING.  SCIENCE  
ENGLISH  SOCIOLOGY  
GOVERNMENT  SPEECH  
,HISTORY  STUDY AIDS  

.KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS 
ON-DiSPLAY AT 
The No!re ·oame Bookshop 





Expanded Description Booklet Will Cover 150 AB Courses 
organization, subject matter, re­The AB Advisory Board isplan-courses--all the courses in the quired reading, and the type andning an expandedcourse9escriP-Liberal Arts College with the frequency of the examinationstion booklet forthefall semester. exception of the general survey in their courses.

It is hoped that in its enlarged sourses such as economics and This material will then be col­form the booklet will contain freshman English. 
lected · and distributed in a book­descriptions of some 150 · Questionnaires have been sent let similar to the limited version 

to all the professors in the col-
published for this spring se­Student Govt. lege regarding the courses they mester.

are to teach next semester. They 
Publication of the booklet isbe­Appointments have been asked to fill them out ing planned to enable its use for• 

Student Body President-elect Minch Lewis recently announced the appointment of a sixth cabi­net coordinator along with the billing of nine other student gov­ernment officers. 
Barry McNamera has been named Hall Life Coordinator, McNamera is the incoming chair­man of the Hall President's Coun-· 

cil. Others appointed to student government posts include: How­ard· Dooley, Publicity Director; John McCuen. Chairman N.D,­South Bend relations; Lou Scriba, Special Projects Coordinator; . and Ray Myers, Student Affairs Commissioner. 
Others named to posts were: Jed Kee, Student Conferences Chairman; .Frank Malley, m:.. rector of Hall Improvement Coop; Joe Lemon, N,D.-SMC Social Committee; and Tom Conoscen­ti, 'executive coordinator, 
Beginning Sunday, May 2, the Social Commissions of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will co­sponser a shuttle bus service to Warren Dunes State Park. Succeeding trips will. take place on Sundays !Vlay 9, 16, and 23. as well as on Saturdays,. 

with the requested information pre-registration this spring.
· concerning the prerequisites, 
~~·lfl OnCamput ~~man 
'~.•.· .. [S... (By the author of"Rally Round the Flag, Boys!", "!\,., "Dobie Gillis," etc.) 
VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE BARREL 

As everyone knows, thirteen-twelfths of the earth's surface is water. Thus we can see how important it is to know and under­stand our oceans. Toward this end American colleges last year embarked on a program to increase enrollment in oceanography. I am pleased to report that results were nothing short of spectac­ular: In one single semester the number of students majoring in oceanography rose by 100%-from one student to two! 
But more oceanographers arc still needed, and so today thi::l column, normally a vehicle for slapdash jocularity, will instead devote itself to a brief course in oceanography. In view of the solemnity of the subject matter, my sponsors, the Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blade Co., makers of Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades which give you more luxury shaves than Beep-Beepor any other brand you can name-if, by chance, you don't agree, the makers of Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades will buy you a pack of whatever brand you think is better-my sponsors, I say, the Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blade Co. will today, because of the solemnity of this column, forego their usual commercial message. • • 
W c begin our study of oceans with that ever-popular favorite, the Pacific. Largest of all oceans, the Pacific was discovered by Balboa, a Spanish explorer of great vision. To give you an idea of Balboa's vision, he first saw the Pacific while standing on a peak in Darien, which is in Connecticut. 
The Pacific is not only the largest ocean, but the deepest. The 

Mindanao Trench, off the Philippine Islands, measures morc than 5,000 fathoms in depth. (It should be pointed out here that ocean depths are measured in fathoms-lengths of six feet­after Sir Walter Fathom, a. British nobleman of Elizabethan 
. times who, upon his eighteenth birthday, was given a string six feet long. :Many young men would have sunk in a funk if all they got for their birthday was a string six feet long; but not Sir Walter! String in hand, he scampered around the entire coast of England measuring seawater until he was arrested for loitering. Incidentally, a passion for measuring seems to ha,·e run in the family: Fathom's grandnephew, Sir John Furlong, spent all his waking hours measuring racetracks until Charles II had him be­headed in honor of the opening of the London School of Econom­ics.) 
But I digress. Let us, as the poet Masefield says, go down to the sea again. (The sea, incidentally, has ever been a favorite subject for poets and composers. Who does not know and love the many robust sea chanties that have enriched our folk music -songs like "Sailing Through Kansas" and '"I'll Swab Your · Deck If You'll Swab Mine" and "The Artificial Respiration Polka.") 
:tvly own favorite sea ch:mty goes like this: (I'm sure you all know it. Why don't you sing along as you read?) 
.'O, carry me to the deep blue sea, Where I can live with honor, And every'place I'll shave my face With Stainless Steel Perscmor. 
Sing hi, sing ho, sing mal-de-mer, 
· Sing hey and nonny-nonny, · . Sing .Timmy crack corn and I don't care, Sing Stain!ess Steel Personny. 
I'll harpoon·whales and jib my sails, And read old Joseph Conrad, · And take my·shaves itpon the waves, 
With Stainless Steel Pe_rsonrad. Sing la, sing lo, sing o-lee-a-lay, Sing night and noon and morning, Sing salt and spray and curds and whey; Sing Slainles.~ Steel Persoming. 
·© 1965, Max ShuJman 
·The landlocked makers of Personna® and Personna Injector Blades wish you smooth sailing and smooth shaving-withPersonna and. Personna's perfect partner: Burma Sllave®, • regular or menthol.' It soaks rings around any other lather/ 


\Lj ·, 

Wednesday, April 28, 1965 

lrish Nine Defeats Detroit 5-.l 
By II.like Reed on a cold and damp Saturday scored, This gave the Irish a afternoon. 
2-0 lead. 

Propelled by Dfck Sauget's 4th In the 5th, centerfielder Mark inning home run which broke a Gonring walked to advance on a scoreless tie, the Notre Dame sacrifice by Ed Lupton, and then baseball team rolled to a 5-1 with the help of Tom Tencza' s vittory overthe Detroit "Titans" ground ball and a wild pitch, 
So greaf lo. wea1• 
· ffOU ,ffwaul jeverafl1air 
;.,I 
.\ 

. ---;, \-.. _:.:...~c. -~-.-:-The. Ncitre-Dame,.GolLTeam look_for Tom_ •~eye~ Talaga to. 
t l l w i\@. 
b 
" 
-
, .~ 
''~ 
·. with 
FaraPress 
. . TM 
Never 


Need 


Ironing 
They're ironing while they're drying ,M 
Trim, comfortable Farah 
Walk Shorts are sharply
styled of ideal warm 
weather fabrics. · , 
1Vear 'em, wash'em and 
they're ready for fun .• 
again without ironing. 

.POPULAR SOllD COLORS $500 
.YARN•OYED WEAVES IN .$600 
STRIPES At:ID PLA!.DS . 

\' 
'.\;­
In the seventh, Detroit managed 
to score once to bring to tally 
up to 2-1, With a three-run burst 
in the . · eighth, Notre Dame 
wrapped it up. Pat Topolski sent 
a blooper to center, which could 
not be ·reached, and sent fn two 
runs, John Musto then singled to 
send in Topolski for the final 
score. 
The victory was the_ nth of the 
season for the Irish against 6 
defeats, and a very important 
one at that, Detroit is one of the , top independents in the area, sporting a record of 8-2: 
Ed Lupton started on the Wll for Notre Dame· and went 7 inn­ings before permitting a Titan to cross. the plate, Although, he needed some fine relief help from Ron Reed in the last two innings, his effort was good enough to gain credit for the victory, This · was his 5th of the year against 
only l setback, 
Thursday, the Michigan ''Wol­
verines" will be onCartierFleld 
for one game. Friday, Notre 
Dame faces Bradley in the ·first 
of a two-game series, The se­
cond will be held Saturday. 
After 17 games, Dick Sauget still leads the Irish at the plate with an average of ,395. He is followed by Tom Szajko with. 342 and Pat Topolski at ,309, 
I • ·h· G J£
rIS . 0 1ers 
· . . · · 



Ope W.th·w.

n . I . 

Illoffensive tackle, R~dy Koniec~y ·. · . and Bob Meeker give us a pair By John Corrigan of strong and quick tackles. Also 
opened its season last Saturday be using his long body for a afternoon by taking first place in · little crab. bing at tackle, a five-team field on the Burke If Eddy and Wolski stay well 
Memorial Golf Course, In second they will undoubtedly be the buttons. . place fifteen strokes behind the 
Irish was Southern Illinois, They 
were followed by Bowling Green, 
Dayton, and Aquinas. The Irish· 
are now 4-0, ·· 
An all-night ·rain Friday re-:­
quired the teams to begin some 
~o hours late on the thoroughly­
drenched course.-The grounds­
keeper had to sweep water off 
some of the greens, which were 
slow but firm. A strong._wind 
helped out, on the long, tough 
holes, though. 

After the. first 18 holes, only·. 
three strokes separated the Irish and Southern Illinois, However . Bill Regnier of NotreDametum­ned in an amazing one underpar, 70 on the last 18 holes; coupled with Irish .Ca}Xain Mike O'Con­nell's 74, Notre Dame won go­
ing away. ANOTHER ARM? Frosh Tom Schoen passes ball as. Jim 1 Lynch 
Individually Bill Regnier led all (61) and Alan Page (76) put on rush in Saturiay's scrimmage, Photo by Bill McGuir_e • · 
golfers with a 147 total. Mike 
O'Connell and Mike Thorp. of 
Notre Dame had 149' s, 

Irish Quartet Win Medley· 
. Sailors win Berth 
The Irish quartet of Pat Con­
Notre. Dame's sailing crewtook 

roy, Bill Boyie, Bill Clark and
second in Area C competition· 

Ed Dean staged a dynamic upset 
in a regatta held in Appleton, . 
in. the distance medley this Sat­
Wisconsin. This gave them a 

urday at the Drake Relays; They 
berth in the regionals to be held 

edged the strongcontingentsfrom 
at · Ohio Wesleyan on May 8-9. 

TYPING DRAFT°'! NG 
Term Papers SI ides Dissertations 11 lustrations 
COPIES SATISi=1er:, 
xerox CUSlOMERS 
Mul.tilith 

A. D. S~ copi1es Only 
.n.· 
5t

·/ .....u...•..••Oat11-u 
•Reducing & Enlarging Drawings and TYPing for SLIDES DISSERTATIONS MULllLITH. . 
822 SOUTH 0BEHD .AVE, . , 232 88l.i8 
Page 4 


By C, J, Vergara 
Color l\fe Optimist 

• "The defense is hitting real good, but you might see an tm­polished offenre, We are espe­cially undecided about our skill­ed positions, quarterback and split end." 
This preface, directed at South 
Bend TV land, to the first tele-
Vised scrimmage reflects Coach 
Parseghian' s cautious optimism 
before the points are on the 
board. 
·We possess a sound and effi­
cient offensive unit. with more 
depth than a year ago. Some 
think Ara is a perfectionist who 
works the game down to a sci­
ence. If you were a center hav­
ing your punt snaps timed by a 
stop watch you might agree, 
George Goeddeke is trying to 
push his time down to 7 /10 of a 
second. Ed Knack, who has a little 
better long snap, backs George 
up. 
"Rip'' Arrington and Tom 
Regner are working into an awe­
some team. Tom has always had 
good straight ahead speed, but 
he has had to develop many pull-
Ing teclmlques. 
As Mr. Regner explains ''At 
first I had quite a bit of trouble 
with some pulling skills, but, 
now that I'm getting out there 
(pulling) quicker, I really enjoy 
it", 
. Some guys are just good at 
knocking people down. 
A big freshman, wpose hefty appearance hides his deceiving agility, is fast becoming ourbest 
strong points ot our attack. Eddy 
could be the best halfback to hit 
the campus since Daberio, He's 
no Lola, but you'll see a lot of 
Nick next year. 
Larry Conjar, whose sprint 
times and Harrisburg, Pa, reP­
utation are cause for optimism, 
has 'finally stayed healthy enough 
to show us something. He's real 
quick and is picking up on his 
blocking skills, Bob Merkle and 
Paul May give us. two able· stand­
bys at fullback,. 

Skilled Positions 
Ara Parseghian is a believer 
in fitting the· offense to the ma­
terial, Unless Jim Smithberger, 
freshman receiver, comes on 
strong, don't be surprised to see 
an offense employing two strong 
tight• ends, Phil Sheridan and 
Don Gmitter, From this forma­
tion he can split out one of the 
other, or even both occasionally, 
Gmitter, like Pete Duranko, has 
so much strength and ability you 
know they're going to play some-. 
w.here. ·Don's been going .. both. 
ways with two· badly broken fin­
gers. He feels having them set 
right now would put his offensive 
hands out of commission.for a 
while, You gotta love it•• ,and I 
believe he does. 
Quarter back Tom Shoen show­ed a lot in the scrimmage, Under the direction of the greatdeveloP­er of quarterbacks he.could show some greatness next year, Both Zloch and Bonvechio were ade­_quate, but not as outstanding as this poised (almost cocky)fresh-· 
man. 

All the-way round things on the------·-. . scoring side don't look too un­polished. In fact, I wouldn't be throwing away any "We' re N~ l". 
· by· twenty yards Saturday, · His two-mile • performance was not good .enough to give him a clean J 

sweep; ·Though finishing. second with his 8:56.8 clocking, In the three-mile nin he was timed at 
. I a 14:21.6, 
Kansas and Oregon with 'their 
time of 9:51,3, nine tenths of a 
second . off the standing record. 
This was the first time in eight 
years that Notre Dame has taken 
a team event, 
Conroy turned in a 1:52 half­mile, Boyle a :47. 5 quarter, Clark . a 3:01,5 thre.e quarter mile and Dean clocked a 4:10,3 mile to achieve the mark. . . 
Mike Coffey gave two solid per­
formances, . running the fastest 
two miles of his career Friday, 
and then took the three-mile run 







Forward Mike  Carrofl tips the  Ball into the  Bob Mier grabs the  loose ball bet~een two  Toronto P_ayers. Se;• Jamie Toohey boots the three Point penaft}·  
Irish  backfield to  start  a  play.  Behind  onds later Mfrr made the two short kicks that set _uP Jamie Toohey s kick that gave the Irish ruggers the victory  
bim  are_  Mike _and John Murpby,  game 1f1int1ing penalty kic:k.  Photos by Bill Mc:Guir!?•  . in· the first Notre Dame Tournament.  





Ruggers Win Challenge Cup on Toohey Kick 
By Bill Dwyre suiting in a virtual deadlock. Notre Dame emerged as ana-Toronto threatened twice earlyin · tional rugbyP.<JW:erSundaybywin-the game, but kicks by Gay Pang ning their own · tournament in and Toohey got the Irish out of Notre Dame Stadium via a 3-0 the jams. Toronto continued to Victory overtheTororitoNomads, keep the advantage throughout .. The tournament included many the first half _du~_ to their ex­of the strongest· teams in the ceptional kicking skill, whileNo­country, Besides Toronto, teams tre Dame had bad luck with many ·from Columbia, Anny, Virginia, of their kicks rolling into the end Indiana, Dartmouth, andSt. Louis zone of Toronto, The only Irish . battled for the "Irish Cup''. With threats in the first half resulted this win the lris:1 distinguished in three long penalty kick at­themselves as the power in a temrxs by Toohey, Each of these 
· field of teams 'that contained kicks fell short. · seven· other outstanding· clubs. Early in the secondhalfTorontc 
The crucial victory came on just missed a medium range Jamie Toohey's~naltykickfrom penalty kick, When the Toronto 15 yards out with only seconds kick swerved to the left the Irish remaining in the game, ruggers turned on the pressure, ' Up to this last second kick the and most of the remainder of game was a masterful display the game was played.in Toronto of rugby skill by both teams re-territory. 
Toohey's game winningkickwas set up when Bob Mier found the ball lost in the midst of the Toronto players ·and gave it two 
short kicks goalward. In the fol­lowing action a penalty was whistled and Toohey's straight on kick was perfect, 
Notre Dame· reached the finals by trouncing Columbia 26-3 on Saturday morning. This was fol­lowed by a 19-0 victory over the University of Virginia in the afternoon. .Toronto beat Indiana and Army enroute to Sunday's finals. 
In Saturday's semi-final victory 
outstanding back JoJm Redding 
opened the scoring with a 
beautiful long run. Toohey con­
verted ·after Redding' s try, and 

a short while later Toohey kick-: Club and the poor weather that. macy. ed a penalty kick for an 8~lead. prevailed throughout the week­
··FERR.ANTE 

TEICHER 



THIS.SAT. 

8:30 Stepan .Center 

Bob Mfer, captainMikeMurphy, end, most of the nearly 2,000 and Joe Belden each scored a try people who viewed the tournament in the second half and Toohey' s · at one time or another deemed additional coversion made the it a success by showing a great final total 19-0. a~ourit of enthusiasm for the 
Toronto controlled .Indiana in sport. When Jamie Toohey'skick their opening cont~st, hut ran in-sailed between the uprights,. the to a stubborn West Point team roughly, 600 people who attended in the afternoon semis. The the final game rose to their feet Cadets, who disappointed many and gave the NotreDame niggers spectators when they failed to a vote .of appreciation and con­bring football standout Rollie fidence that has been four years Stichweh to the tournament, play-in the coming. ed a brand of rugby which showed At the end of the game the "Irish superior physical conditioning. Challenge .Cup" was presented Toronto had to overcome con-to moderator Ken Featherstone stant threats by the Army team and team cartain Mike Murphy. and make good use of each break The cup, which was donated by to gain their 11-3 victory. rugby enthusiast Don Gentile,. 
Despite the financial stress will remain a symbol of Notre placed on the Notre Dame ·Rugby Dame Rugby Tournament supre­
·Tickets $2.00 $3.00 $3.50 50¢ more at the door ·On Sale: ·Wed. & Thurs. nights inDiriing Halls Thn~s. &Fri.in Social Comm.Office 

Freshman· Class Council Sponsors "The Whisper" 
On Thursday, April 8 the first edition of "The Whisper'' aP­peared in the freshman halls, Printed by the Ave Maria Press on a sheet the size of the Re­ligious Bulletin, "The Whisper.'' purports to be more than just a freshman newsletter. 
Pat Collins, the editor, believes that "The Whisper" will give upperclassmen a precise idea of the freshman class's impres­sions of Notre Dame after seven month, He hopes" the faculty and administration will see how the freshmen are developing in their awareness of campus and aca­demic life. Collins wantstovoice a freshman reaction to regula­tions, stay hall, honor code, and other current campus topics, 
He also plans to double the size of his next issue, to add an Sl\fC reporter ·to· the staff, and to in-

Prom ·Plans Complete 
On April 30 the sophomores and 

freshmen will stroll into Stepan . Center, converted into an 18th­century park and . dance· to the music of Bobby Christian. Early Saturday morning buses ·and cars -will transport the sophs and frosh to the I\1ichigan Dunes, That night the frolickers will at­,' tend a concert by Ferrante and· Teicher. To cap the weekend they will attend Sunday Mass and the tra­ditional Communion Breakfast ·with Father Hesburgh as their guest or' honor, · 
_Junio·r 

Plans for the Junior Prom ·. Weekend are being completed. . 
The formal is entitlep '~Beyond _Jhe_Sea"_ aridwill be held in the Stepan Center Friday night, May 
7. Billy May and his orchestra \Vill perform. · 

Saturday afternoon there will be a choice between going to the . Dunes .or attending the. Old­Timer's game, Transportation to the Dunes will be available, 

Blue Circle 
Cont. from.Pg. 1 Among the major Circle acti­by the recent constitutional a­
mendment raising the maximum membership from 45 to 50. 
vities in recent years have been assisting in the origin of _the Honor Code system, o-rganizing the Student-Faculty coffee hours in conjunction with student gov­ernment, and creating the first 
.tutoring groups, The next event on the Circle's 

. calendar is the annual "Help .week", to be held on Saturday, May L ND and SMC students will assist at hospitals, rest homes, · and similar institutions. Those interested in participating can coritact George Bernard in 210 
• Walsh who  is chairman of the  
actiVity.  
"RAd,  ..  




~00~~ 
troduce SMC topics to the paper. 
· He wants to continue the paper next year, changing its format so that it will grow with the Class of '68, but be independent of class government. 
The idea for a·class paper was born in the Freshman Class Council, which approached Col­lins because he. had shown in­terest in starting anewspaperfor Breen-Phillips Hall. He agreed to edit "The Whisper" on the conditions that the Council have no censorship powers and that he be responsible only to moder­ator Fr, Michael · Heppen and 

· Student Affairs Vice-President 
Fr. Charles McCarragher. Collins, who worked on the "Washington Daily News" last summer, assembled his staffand began work on the first issue last month. The next issue isdue April 29. 




r"ni~ucc7iirrruA7 
JI S_outh Dining Hall 'I 
SODA FOUNTAIN 
Mon, thru Fri. 

t .7:30 A.M.•9:30 P.M. j.
.,_,.....,..._.._,.__,.._,......,.~~~.,_ 
University of Notre Dame 



Tutoring Play Sponsored 
To raise money to continue the tutoring project, the Neighbor­hood StudyHelp Program is spon­soring a children's musical, An­nabelle Brown -the Unhappy Witch, to be presented on .May 14:-io;-at the Central E.U.B, Church Auditorium. 
At Notre Dame the Tutoring Activities Committee is contact­ing 75 campus organi_zations, asking them to donate blocks of tickets, now on sale for 75¢ a piece. 

Larry Mulligan, committee chairman, reports thatbefore the Easter holidays the Bengal Bout Boxing CllJb, the American In­stitute of Aeronautics and As­tronautics, the Monogram Club, and the New England · Club had _purchased IO tickets each, 
Typing Wanted Thesis, Dissertations or Manuscripts;, Experienced, accurate and reasonable. Can pick up and deliver. 
Mrs. Jcan Motsinger 
Tel. 259·1304 

WA_RNER'S TRUCK AND TRAILER RENTAL 
Rent it in South Bend -leave it at home 901 W. Western Ave. Phone -287-9494 

Page 6 


Fashion leaders for High School and College men 


'I"; . ~ 

ANEW PROGRAM OF INTEREST TO 
· . It isn'-t easy to become an officer in the United States Army. Only the best young men are selected. The training and course of study are demanding. . But if you can qualify-and you should find out 
. if you can-you will receive training which will put you a step ahead of other college graduates. Army' ROTC training will give you experience that most 
1 · 

college graduates do not get-in leading and man­aging other men, in organizational techniques, in self-discipline and in speaking on your feet. This kind of experience will pay off in everything you 

do the rest of your life . 
Army ROTC has a new program designed spe:. cifically for· outstanding. men who already· have two years of college, and plan to continue their college work. During your junior and senior years in this program, you will receive $40 ·per month. Want to find out more about the program? Simply send in the coupon below; or see the Professor of Military $cience if you are now attending an ROTC college. There's no obligation-except the one you owe to yourself. · 
If you're,··good enough to be an Army Officer, don't settle for less 
r--~~------~-----------------------------------1


! · · AR ROTC 
· PROFITABLE BUSINESS• SATISFYIHG HOBBY 
I 
Box 1040, Westbury, New York 11591
FREE CATALOG I 
& SPECIAL Gentlemen: Please send me Information on the new 2-Year Army ROTC Prog"ram.1 am now a student at·
I . .------­
INTRODUCTORY . 
OFFER I ---'--_____(college or university) and plan to continue my schooling at_____________:___ 
Complete easy instruc• I tions for· making sterlingsilver and gold filled ro, 
1I Name•---.,------------------,-------------------­
saries plus rosaries to be 
used by the Missions. 
1I Addres-----------,-----,----------------------------City, 
Send for yours today, No 
obligation. . 
____________________state,__________..;.__Zlp Code,______ 
LEWIS g, COMPANY· 
I . . . _ · . ·. . . . . ., . . C-265 I
500 3rd Ave., Troy,'N. Y. 
, . . . -'


L-~------------~------~-~-------~--------------J
. Foto News'Lit~o ·• Ramarr Publishing; Elkhart, Indiana . 




