.; . 

Roos and Petroshius Talk Way to Trophy 
John Roos andLarry Petroshius this time Notre Dame had a 5-1 The order of finishers in the carrured first place and the record, then went on to defeat tournament was Miami, Florida, Richard D. Schiller trophy for Ohio State, Dartmouth, Kentucky, second; Kentucky, third; and But­Notre Dame in the Notre Dame and finally the University of Ier, fourth. The debate team gave Invitational debate tournament l'vliami of Florida to win the tour-special rival Butler an extra­last weekend. The Notre Dame nament, ordinary welcome, rolling out team· compiled a 9-l record to Larry Petroshius ofNotreDame Johnny Dee's gold mat for the capture its fourth first place won the tenth place speaker's a-Butler coach at the Morris Inn. Victory in the 13-year history ward, Notre Dame debaters have been of the tournament, · The tournament was not without especially successful in the last The topic of debate was "Re-some drama. The plane which few weeks. They placed first at solved that the Federal Govern-brought the Army team crash-Vanderbilt, second at Kentucky, ment Should Establish a National landed at Fort Wayne, and and third at the Azalea Tour­Program of Public Works for the Army's; early Friday debates had nament at Spring Hill College in Unemployed." to be rescheduled. Because of the Mobile, Alabama. John Roos and 
The fifty-four schools attending _ snowstorm teams were arriving Larry Petroshius will enter the the tournament each debated six throughout Thursday evening and District 5 qualifying rounds for preliminary rounds and the 16 Saturday morning, but everyone the National Tournament at West teams with the best recordswere . finally arrived. Point during the spring break. chosen for the octo-finals, At 
Hennigan, Rooney Speak THIE at· Leadership Conference 
·The annual Leadership Confer­tant to the executive director of 

ence, . sponsored by the Blue the Catholic. Conference of In­Circle, will be held in the Me­terracial Justice; Mike Kirton, OF NOTRE DAMIE morial Library· this weekend. a Notre Dame graduate with the 
The keynote speech will be on 
Peace Corps; Don J. Thorman, Volume 3, Number 15 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE_ DAME Wednesday, March IO, 1965
Saturday by Francis Hennigan of author ofThe Emerging Layman the War on Poverty program, Mr. Hennigan will lecture on the 
~~~!~~~o:~~:A;e~~~: Course Evalu· -ation Form 
ways in which ideal Christian Publishing Co. leadership can be -effective in 
Sunday the spotlight ·will be 
R d -_e s d. u
dealing With the' practical pro;.. blems of society, 
:~:mw~~t~e;~u~~i:~s~::::; By_ "ay Feoerya 

y IOr tu -ellt _-_Se. _ ...
Later in the afternoon, a panel addressing the assembly .on the n moderated by Rev, David Burrell, effectiveness of the Catholic col-· , sults of the form, but most of more subtle, possible dividing C.S.C., Will discuss the points lege in turning out capable lead-The Arts and Letters Advisory . the committee members feel that ·the courses into three categories, 
brought up in Mr. Hermigan' s ers. Fr. Rooney is professor of Board, has come up with atenta-the purpose of the evaluation is good, extraordinary, and "spe­speech, as well as any ideas English at Catholic University tice form to be used in the eval..: to aid the student and that the cial.''. category is for courses arising in the preceding student and director of the Catholic Com-uation of courses for the planned results, if used at all, should be tha~ deal with particular in­discussions, The, panel will also mission on Intellectual and Cul-description booklet, made available to the student teresting subject matter, but not include leaders in public life, tural Affairs: Later this year he Granted $100 last week by the body, necessarily are taught by a good such as Dale Kildee, recently will deliver the St. Thomas More university, the board hopes to "Only by allowing such free professor.elected member of the !vlichigan Lectures at Yale, enlarge and improve the booklet evaluation," says senior com-Pepe emphasizes that in this Legislature; John Butler, assis-The moderator for Sund;iy's that came out in January. mittee member Steve Pepe, "can "special" category, the book is 
panel will be Dr. E.A. Goerner, _ , The form includes 53 questions, we weed out the good courses making no judgement of the teach­professor of political science and with extra space given for eval-from the ·bad, which is our real,. er; the course isincluded simply­head of CAP. A wide scope of uation comment. Ranging from purpose/' and only -because the material
Stay Hall 
opinion should be represented by questions dealing with a student's . Pepe feels, however, that at is interesting. the other panel members, in-general average and grade in the least in the near future, "we will Tom Brejcha, chairman of the
The controversy between Fr. 

eluding Sister Charles Borroneo course to those concerning the not be able to do this at Notre Arts andLettersAdvisoryBoard,Michael Murphy, Alumni rector, 
· from St, Mary's: john Gearen, instructor and his lectures, the Dame.'' . agrees with Pepe that the booklet and the Stay Hall Committee has 'Student Body President; Dr. form is intended to give as ac-The planned description and e-(Continued on page GJapparently been cleared up. 
William D'Antonio, professor of curate an evalua~ion as possible, valuation booklet will be much
The details of the compromise sociology; Rev. John Walsh, di-Many of the questions go iritoare not clear, but it appears that rector of the .Newman Club at, de~h in the evaluation. For in­Fr. Murphy's demands have been Wayne State University; and Carl stance, one asks if the class timemet. 

The room selection for present Mershel, science professor at is well spent, another asks the Montieth College, . student to rate the general teach-
Alumni residents, scheduled for Unlike the conferences of the ing ability of the instructor, an­
this week, has been cancelled. Fr. Murphy, irked at a commit-· past few years, this one will be other asks for the course weak­
tee· plan which would have allowed 
open to the entire student bodies nesses as well as strengths. juniors outside Alumni to select 
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Tentative plans suggest giving The schedule for both the Sat-the evaluation form to seniorsrooms before present Alumni 
sophomore's, had scheduled the urday and Sunday sessions will with good averages who are ma­room selection in defiance of the· be the following: a keynote joring in the department offering committee, "The committee's 
address at 1:30 p.m. in the Li-the course; Because. the plans brary Auditorium, student dis-are not yet final, it is not sure
plan would, in effect, reduce 'cussions in the seminar rooms where the fo~s will go after
Alumni residentsto second-class citizens," he said, of the Library, a SO-minute break that. in the faculty lounge, followed by a Suggestions have been that pos­panel. discussion at 4:00 p,m., sibly only the professor and the again in the Library Auditorium. department head will see the re­
, President's Medallion 

Prese_ntation Comes in June, 
Some Folk Festival entrants en• play. (Voice Photo by Mike Ford)

25 Seniors to get Award 
gaRe in a little on•staRe horse• 

· past week. They were: Ramon Murphy, pre-med; instituted this year as a replace-Don Connors, Notre Dame soph-, group to be a finalist in the Mel Noel, history; ment for Who's Who. omore, was awarded the prize evening's competition, was ac­L~rry.Beshel, economics; TomOddo, philosophy; . claimed and re­
Father Hesburgh himself set up for the best individual act in the best vocalist Bill Boyle, philosophy: Heman Puentes, economics; the_ judging criteria, saying: "I Collegiate Folk Festival lastSat--ceived a $50 reward. 
Tom Brejcha, general program; John Roos, English and political believe the medallion should be urday in the Stepan-Center. Conn-The above four winners were a­Ed Burke, history;· science; : conferred upon that Notre Dame ors, who . had won four prizes in mong only seven groups chosen Nass Cannon, pre-med; Nick Sardi, political science; , student who presonifies the high-last year's festival, netted him-to compete in the final . round 
Jim Carroll, communication Bob Stewart, mechanical engi-est qualities that one should look -self $100 in cash in Competition during the evening session. In the arts; neering; for at this university. ' with a field of twenty entries. afternoon and preliminary ses-Terry Daily, English; Jim Tedford, pre-med; Certainly among these should be A similar prize of $100 for the sion of the festival, each groupLance· Drane, electrical· en-Mike \Vilsey, general program; academic achievement on a high best large _ group went to the preformed for ten minutes, while gineering; -Pat Zilvitus, mechanical en-level, evidence of good character Clear Creek Singers, a group of . in the· evening the finalists were John Gearen, English and politi-gineering. · and moral responsibilities in his four boys and a girl form Earl-· allo,ved a full fifteeri minutes for cal science; · -The selections were made by a relationship to the student com­ham College, John Lewis, gui-, their p_!rformances. ,Barry Johanson, communication board of 14 juniors representing munity at Notre Dame, leader-tari st from Oberlin College, won The Winds of Notre Dame,. re­
arts; the major campus organizations. ship in some significant form of $50 as the best instrumentalist. turning tocampusforthefestival,Paul Knipper, general program; Over 130 nominations were sub-student activity, and general re­Ann Hart, from St, Mary's of -were applauded by the audience Doug Lovejoy, general program; mitted, and of these nominated cognition of all these qualities on 
the Springs in Columbus, Ohio, 

.· Paul Meagher, political science; 43 were given interviews,. The behalf of the student body." ­who had been singled out of-her (Continued on pagp 3). 


Page 2· UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Wednesday, March_ 10, 1965 
Sense on the Academic Calendar 
•The size and urgency of the need scicntious pace in the correcting of for a revision of the slated 1965-66 semester exams, and it would offer an University Academic Calendar is ap· opportunity co organize course mated• parent as the time grows short for a al for second semester. Also there change, · · would be no problems created by 
The Academic Committee of the Se-school beginning two weeks earlier nate, headed by Tom Mulvihill, seems than usual in September as the facul­to have spured the acceptance of an ty is already under contract at that exant schedule_ change for the end of cime and usually must be back in this year. Most of their objectives, South Bend for the opening of their including a five day exam period, children's schools~ seemed to be assured of final approv­One drawback might be the loss of al. Official announcement ·should some Christmas job income. It seems, come on this year's exam· schedule however, that the job opportunities before Spring Break. derived from a ~econd semester, mid• 
Backed by _impressive statistics, dle-of-May finish would financially Mulvihill has launched a war on the more than outweigh this disadYantage. slated academic calendar. In a random A source close to Leo Corbaci, Ad­IBM sampling, over 2/3 of the ·stu• · ministrative Assistant, Office of Aca­dents questioned favored· a calendar demic Arrairs; has reported that Mr. where first semester would end before· Corbaci has. an optional plan that in­Christmas: A ~~eighty 85% _of the fac• corporates most of the objectives of ulty also favored this solution. the Senate Academic Committee. It 
The advantages of the proposal, appears, however, that Fr. Soleta is 
which · has · the mild support of Fr. unwilling to take concerted action on Hesbursh, seem clear. It would. end any change, waitins instead for a gen­the stagnation or lame duck atmos• eral meeting of the Academic Council. phere ,that surrounds 'the campus in The Voice urges those faculty mem• the fo!-'t couple of weeks after Christ• ·hers connected with the Academic Stay Hall an unmarried professor ~s rec­
tor,·and free the priests to serve
mas: va-cation. It would further solve Council to exert pressure to bring a-
The new emphasis on hall life as chaplains, A third might be to the problem of the semester break, as -. bout an early Council meeting and to points out more clearly the need give the students more responsi­Fr. Hesburgh remains ada-mant that. further back the overwhelming desires-for improvement of the halls. bility for their own organiz.ation, 
The halls are like barracks, both financial and disciplinary,
there should not be a semester break of their colleagues. To put off a cal.;. 
particularly because of the forced Finally, a more practical item
so shortly. after Christmas vacation. endar revision until it is too late 
rooms. , might be a booklet containing
From the faculties point of view it 

would be a travesty to the clear stu­Student government, with a com-·· suggestions for room decoration would allow a more leisurely and con~ dent-faculty mandate for change. mittee under_ Barry McNamara, most. ·obviously· color com-will try to make the hall the real· b b · 1·
•unit of student identification. One ination, ut a so arrangement
of desks and bookcases, substi­of the changes might be to link tutes for foot lockers, etc:. a' few_ professors and a segment All of these , together with a• · of· St. 'Mary's with each hall. proposal soon to be presented to. Another might :'be to. begin _to the rectors. for later weekend
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR. 
transfer. the administrative func-curfew, ·are an_attempt to make. · tions ortlie priests in the hall-· the hall more livable, The com-­to , lay i;:eople, in. the form of mittee is being formed now, and

Actor Writes UBU Review· 
. graduate/students prefects and. there will be a meeting of the 
Dear Editor: , student'-f~culty-administration board next week to discuss it.
Editors: • To the Editor: . 
Doctor Faustroll~ (Incidentally, 

• · That the Voice did ·not choose the · Paris -based College · de · Re: The Caretaker controversy. Our Airport personnel recently Another issue is. that student (see fit?) to review or even to , 'Pataphysique does (indeed?) pointed out the serious problems government, due mainly to the report the Impersonal" Pronoun "exist''. numbering among its I guess J. Strahs, in his last caused at vacation periods by work of a student named Frank Productions' presentation of Feb. present and past members such week's letter, showed prettywell duplicate reservations booked by Schleicher, will probably be mak­25 is emblematic. As co-head of artists as Jacques Frevert, Eu­that Pinter, according to his own passengers, Often, students will ing possible a new student •di­IPP and involved· in Ubu Roi. gene Ionesco, Jean Dubuffet; An-. notions of what a play should be,_ reserve simila·r space on several rectory for next year which l)· perhaps I should not J?e. the one dre Breton, and Joan lv!iro,) has strictly and successfully con­flights leaving at approXimately will be printed more quickly (ex­to write, ·On the other hand. as ."The afternoon was capped by a formed to his own notions of the same time. This, of.course, pected deadline is about l mo • 
a founder of The Voice andform-· presentation 11! Jarry' s famous what a play should be. prevents others from being able , before this year's), 2) will con-· er associate editor, I feel that Ubu Roi. The play-is, properly · to obtain space~ · tain as many phone numbers and it is high time. _ speaking the realbeginning of the TA Kerns 
addresses as we want -faculty, 
administration, and perhaps St.
First, I'll do your job: "theatre of the absurd": its Dear Editor: If you find the opportunity, we 
Mary's students, 3)willbelarger
"On the Thursday of much snow· presentation in 1896 was one of would appreciate any influence and thicker, with local ad­
and,no classes, IPP appeared the most important, theatrical Referring to Mr, Schulte's ar­The Voice might exert to limit · 
for the second time this year, events in the last 100 years. As ticle of March 3, 1%5 edition.of the practice of double and triple vertizing gotten by a national· 
firm. All this because Frank let
presenting , ''the_ official sub­such, the play represents a vital the VOICE, I wonder at the point booking of space. It eventually · me know that he wasannoyedthat­sumption · of .· the -University . of study piece for students of drama, he is·trying to develope. causes inconvenience to everyone 
the the directory came
Notre Dame into· the College of_ and this was very likely the first He points out that Mardi Gras as guilty ·parties this time so late and 
• was willing to do some research'Pataphysics." The production, .. production of it in the lvlidwest. · seems to have no problem in may find they can't secure space on it after our meetings with the·-styled after last year's memor-More. importantly, the. response growing financially, but does have . during the next vacation period administration. Student govern­. able birthday party. for Shake­to the freely scatalogical cari-difficulty in improving Mard­W.F. Spence ment is yours. Use it.
speare, heralded by two weeks cature whichisUbe offered ample Gras for the student. Obviously, Sales Manager, Urp.ted Air Lines of·mysterious .signs and buttons evidence that too play is not a Mr. Schulte fails to recog­(and a· pataparade sousaed by bookshelf work, but one that still· nize many improvements this 1f'BE Goef Bratz), filled the.Law Audi-· jerks . surprises and laughter. to Bermuda. Instead of having 
·.torium. (Jacques Coi;:eau called it "pure one professional group at the ,.The boisterous crowd was theatre.") concert, :Mardi Gras presented_ ·stirred up by · a proliferation of · "The play was preceded by a two top flight acts. Mr. Schulte 

06'~ NOTRE DAME
•
· pickets--the ''St. l\.fary' s Pru­.short Ballet· Comique, in which also questions a reluctant atti-· 
dence Society" (against: "Some Tom Vitullo, as. "The Faex", tude of Mardi Gras to· assume Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni­
things ·are· NOT done!"), Chris­
produced perhaps the most nau-additional risks. I would suggest versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; tian activists (against: "Ubu is seating grin on record. John he . question some Mardi Gras Post Office Box 1. the Anti;;.Christ'.''), and under­Sheehan and Muffy Jaskunas, as members as to the manyworries Bqa · rd f · · , Rev. D 1 , l C. S.C., John· Ge ' 
. . o Review•••·•••• anie O Nei, arsengradua·re 'pataphysicians, led by Pere and Mere Ubu, raucously, that develop every yearwitheach EDITO
R. •••••••••••••••••••••••• ,BARRY JOHANSON 
John Roos (for: "Eplphenomeno-jounced through Jarry's grates-Mardi Gras weekend..' A Edi ·.
. ssc.. tor: .. ., •. ; .. • ....,•.........._~· •..... ., Jed Kee 
. logy or else!") que_ and a·. --sexual conception · Mr. Schulte also de~ires amore · · · ·· 
"Thes e demonstrators noisily of a Macbethian marriage. Ubi-relaxed, less rushed weekend, by News Editor:. ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ; • ; • • • • • • .Bob Lumpkins : contended until the tropicallyclad quitous Rich Campolucci turned leaving . Friday night open for. News staff:, • • • • • • • • • .Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Dan Murray; · and Larry Kelly assumed -.in. a gem of a comic portrayal .wearied travelers. His brilliant Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, John Sible·y, Dick Veit, Steve Feldhaus, the podium to confront· the . as Bougrelas. . answer to the question is to have . Ray Faery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schleef, Bill Siska, Pat Strickler, throng. -Both his ."Inaugural ·. "The entire elaborate pro-the Ball ·saturday night. ·. But Jim Elliot , . Harangue". and the "mathemor­duction (including pickets and . wouldn't atwo hourconcert, a two -Sports Editors:. • • • • • • • • .Lou Bartoshesky, and Bob Campbell phic" discourse which followed . music) . was originated, or-and one half. hour brunch,. plus Sports Staff:. • • • • • • • • ••Mike Read, Dan Ferguson, lv!ike Granger, (admirably delivered by Dr. Mc.: ganiz.ed, and -directed by Jim ·· a four hour Ball, all between Bill .Brown, Jere Locke, Frank Morasco, Quentin MacManus; Tom 
. · Donald of the English Dept.) made Strahs~ The coordination of an two o'clock and midnight seem Sullivan, Bill Dwyre , , · · .. . 
• use of genuine 'pataphysical do­hour and a_ half of uproariousen-. to create more of a rush? , Business Manager:. • • • • • · • • • • •·· • • • • • ·• • • • .John O'Hanlon . cuments,. and gave · a lucid de­tertal'nment including a t·remen C · · · • · "f' d B • · Advertising Manager:. • ~ • • , , • • , ·• , ,~.-• , , ·, , , • , • ,Ken Socha 
, -' nt1c1sm 1s1ust1 1e , utcnt1­
scrif.(ion·-'of. the ''work"· of the dously,signiflc:ant theatrical do-cism without constructive advice 'Advertising Salesmen:,.•.••.•.•.••.•.••.• .John Guzauska.s · di · f ; La}'out Editor:,· • .. ;. 'i' -. • ••••..•••• .,Dellllis Keni 
••••• ·• •·. · •• :., .,
. College. Dr. Heagher both in­cument, is l!. pro .'gious. eat./ ts absurd•.· , · ·· · · · 
A ss1stant Layout Editor:. •.• ; .,••••• :. ; ."'. ·;.-••••/ .Steve Vogel troduced ·and· was the most fa.:. 
Layout Staff:. , • ~ /, •• , •••• , • , • , , • Ecld Baker, Dave Griffin 
-mous ''pacaphyslcian of all,. 
Ron Stahlschmidt · 

KellY. Morris Proofreader:, • ; • , ••• ~ ·•: ,' , • , • ·, • , , , , • ~ , , ; .Jim'Medeiros 





March 10, 1965 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Page 3 



·Sex and the SMC Girl 
mate with whom she would spendBy Rick Kalamaya 

the rest of her life. This idea was not opposed radi­
Last Sunday the topic of the cally, but there was little agree­Academic Council's discussion ment with the view,at Moreau Hall was "The Chris­Another girl defined her view of tian Life and Sex," and it was a relationship with an ND boy aswell represented with intelligent "like love." lt was explained asand thought-provoking ideas from a plateau of communication where both sexes. 

there wasn't a true love that canThe undertone of the glrls1 view pose a problem with regard towas a combination of saying no. 

the necessity of marriage. Theto the physically :. orientated ND main idea of.this ''like love" was boy and the problem of love with the necessity of communication. 

regard to our position as stu­Here another problem wasdents. Since the boys had to ex­brought up, Apparantly the mainplain• that marriage could not be 
(
interaction between . the twoconsidered in the near future, schools is dating. It was statedtheir position was many times that the prospect of a real com­defensive. 

are munication between two people

These girls students, but is at a disadvantage on a formalthey are also women, and their date, Eac h party puts on their 
e
natural inclination for all re­best face on a formal date, andlationships with males with these girls were interested inmarriage in mind was the general really getting to know a boy forproblem that was kicked around what he is,but actually never solved. 
The discussion was so profoundNecessarily, this meansthatthe as to deal with Marcel's view of ·discussion had a great deal to do love, yet it was friendly and in­with love itself. · 

formal. One girl mentioned as ~ 
One girl seemed to think that a the panel was drawing to a closepurely platonic relationship at that maybe Notre Dame studentsfirst was the ideal way ;or pre­were deeper than the St. Mary's'l)anng for marriage. This was a 

J
girls give them credit for.

means for getting to know the 
Sophs to -Discuss Vietnam 

V 
The Sophomore Academic Com-dents that will "furtherinterests mission ·will sponsor a panel in things intellectual, outside re­discussion, "The United States quired classroom courses." and Vietman," tomorrow at 8 There will be a series of three 
A
p.rn. in the Law Auditorium. This· discussions, "Current Chris­will be the second event in a tianity," on March 31, April 11,. series of panel. and· discussion and May 11, that will be orien­groups planned for the spring tated in much the same way as 
L
semester. the 11 Sex and Christianity" dis-
Professors Bernard Norling, cussion. On March 30, in the History Department, James Art Gallery, Mr. John Howlett Bogle, Government, and James will lecture "Trends of Twen­Carberry, Chemical Engineer-tieth Century Art" in conjunction ing, will present their personal with the gallery exhibit. views and solutions for the Viet­nam crisis. A coffee hour for a more intimate discussion of the topic will follow the professors' presentations of their views, All interested students are invited. 
The commission began its pro­gram last Sunday with a open discussion of the topic "Sex and Christianity" (see review below.) About 70 attended the coed ses­sion at St. Mary's. The discus..: sion was carried on in six small­er groups which examined mod­erator Dan Koob' s presentation of modern sexual thinking. Mike Gorham and Rich Linting were the other chairmen of the event, Commissioner Tom Filardo hopes to initiate a program for Notre Dame and St, Mary's stu-
CFF 
• The Paulist Father is a modern (Continued from page l) man in every sense of the word. He as one of the best acts. Agreeing, is a man of this age, cognizant of the judges awarded this group a the needs of modern men. He is, special commendation for "su-free from stifling formalism, is a 
perb performance"; however, the 
Winds were bypassed in the bal-pioneer in using contemporary loting. for best group since their ·ways to achieve the conversion of material was not strictlyofafolk 100 million non-Catholic Amer• nature, A special commendation icans. He is amissionary to his own · was also given to Lynn Haney, people -the American people. He 
· blues singer from Ursuline Col-utilizes modern techniques to ful­lege in Cleveland. fill his mission, is encouraged to Mr. Cedric Smith of the 5trat-can ·upon his own innate talents to 
ford Ontario Players, one of the 
judges, explained during the help further his dedicated goal. · evening's performance that judg­
. ing would be made on three points: • If the vital spark of serving God vocal blend and harmony, both through man has been ignited in arrangement and playing ·. skill you, why not pursue an investig·a­for insturmenatlists, and finally . tion of your life as a priest? The stage presence. Paulist Fathers have developed an 
Other judges officiating at the aptitude test for the modern man folk festival were Ray Tate from interested· in devoting his life to Old Town School of Folk Musfc, God. This can be avital instrument · 
. Ray Mason of the Ea5tgate Sing-to help you make the most impor­ers, Guy Guillon, backup man 
for the Kingston Trio. Mr. John tant decision of your life. Write for Meagher and Dr. Robert it today. ChriStin of · the N,D. English. Dept., and Mrs, Donald Costello. NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR I. 
Joe Lemon, General Chairman PAULIST FATHERS of CFF, termed the festival both 
415 WEST 59th STREET 

a social and financial success 
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019

and stated that over 2000 per­sons were in attendance. . 
apr 9 -7:15 pm to 11:30 pm -$1•25 apr 10 -1:oopm to 5:oo.Pm -$ ·.75. apr 10-a:oop~ to 11:oopm-$1.50 
reserved seats -$2-00 




Page 4 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME. March 10, 1965 


SBP Race Begins With Race 
By John Buckley The race for next year's stu­dent body presidency began in just that, a race, when the nom­ination period op:med last Fri­day at 6:30. Minch Lewis and John. Phillips, the two canidates for the position as of last Sun­. day, were in a short line outside the Blue Circle office, election headquarters, Their campaign staffs and groups of volunteers waited in nearby rooms, pens poised, to affix 50 signatures to the nomination petitions. The prize to the winner of the race, tl.e first to return his sign­ed petition, was that his name would appear first on the ballot in the elections next Thursday, According to popular rumor,· in Notre Dame's preferential elec­tions the candidate with hisname first on the ballot has a better chance of . winning.· That rumor is still unverified But, worthwhile ornot, this race is part of the Notre Dame elec­tion tradition, and the two candi­dates served the tradit.ion wor-. thily. When the . door to the office 
FOR SALE 
1932 ROCKNE, The car named after the· famous Knute Rockne, of the University• of Notre Dame, 
A sporty ·· coupe. Wire wheels. 
O\vners manuals worth over $50 
included. Rumble seat compart-. 
ment, Excellent mechanical con-·­
dition. Over $240 in engine tune­·up. E~ellent restorable condi­
tion. 
Primed Much more, A rare find,; Must remove from storage. as. soon as possible. Sell at loss. Best offer above $520. 
Thisis an offer to anyinterest­
ed party of the University of No­tre Dame • This car would en­hance. any ~rade, football game, homecoming, \or just any col­lection of Rockne memorabilia, 
Fraternites, alunmi associa­tions, or any ind!Vidual inquiry is invited. Owner enthused over possibility of returning car to its place of history and there­fore makes this special offer. However,· please rush your in­quicy immediately, since it will soon be nationally advertised, 
Why 'not, consult. your organi­:ration? . . . .. Fire engines are for all schools -: ·. A Rockne· is only for Notre Darnel 
Arthur . Skoland, Towns End, l\lfendham, New Jersey. 
opened, Lewis was the first in; after listening to a short ex­planation of procedures by Jim Tedford, election chairman, Lewis raced out to his wniting group. Phillips was in and out of the office quickly, and he tore off to his supporters, 
ln about five minutes, Phillips was back, and ~ople were slaP­ping each other on the back, as if the election had just been won. But P);tlllips raced back to his ·supporters, shouting"I need your 
addresses on this." 
At 6:37, Lewis, with· SO signa­
tures and addresses on his nom­
ination petition, reported in to 
the office, and won the coveted 
first position on the ballot, Phil­
lips came in a minute later, One 
of the students on the p::tition­
signing teams sighed: "Every­
body can go back to normal 
existence now." 
While this mad scramble was 
going on, Tim Gwm, candidate 
for student body vice-;president, 
was getting signatures from a. 
group he had assembled, about 
half as many as needed for nom­
ination, and from the stragglers 

· As part of his duties this year, the secretary is a member ofIthe cabinet, on one of the student , government committees, coor­dinates with the recording sec­,retary and manages all corre­spondence and offi~ supplies. But, according to Guenard, his job is rewarding; it is "the ideal way for anyone really interested to get into student government." · The nomination period for all . offices closes this Friday at7:30 .p.m. The elections will be held in the hallsnextThursday, :March · 18. . 
The : Blue Circle office in La­Fortune Student Center will be open toy{iorrow and Friday, from 
6:30 to 7:30 p.m., for ele.ction information. 
The College of ·Business Ad­

·"L'Am10nce Faite a Marie"
ministration will sponsor an All 

(fhe Tidings Brought to Mary)
College Night for freshmen to­

will be presented at I11diana U­
night at 7:30 p.m. in the En­

niversity South Bend campus to­
gineering -Auditorium. Deans·. 

night at 8 p. m, Tickets are· $2. 
Murphy and Malone will speak. 

JCCl000CCC=:>000000Cl0CCCOC0000CQCC000QOOQ0tlCID0C 
mrilvihill mulvihill mulvihil~ 
~ulvihill mulvihill mulvihill 
mulvihill mulvihill m~lvihill 
Don't Make A Molehill Out Of A Mountain 
mulvihill mulvihill mulvihill mulvihill mulvihill.mulvihill mulvihill ~ulvihill mulvihill_ 
.oc:0000coco00ac00c0co00000000000000000000aooc 
. . . -. 
This card· 

will save you money on Spring vacation· 

*. 
. 
. 
·~ 

(Get one free from your S.M.O.C.) 
. . . ' 
Rich~rd McCarthy, 205Walsh Hall Phone Ce -4-6690· 
Your Sheraton Man on-Campus has a free Sheraton Student ID ·· Card for you. (If you're faculty, ask for a Faculty Guest Card.) .. 
With it you'll get discounts on room rates at Sheraton Hotels . and Motor Inn's all over the world. Even in single rooms. (With two or three in a room, you save even more.) Good Deal. 
Get in touch with your S.M~O.C.: 
95 SheratonHotels& MotorInns 
from the presidential candidates' groups, He reported in with his form filled in about 15 minutes. The only other candidate in any race (as of Sunday), was also there the opening night, Rich Linting, running for treasurer, turned in his petition about 20 minutes after the p::riod opened. Sometime during the evening, reported chairman Tedford, one student, apparentlynotvery neat­ly attired nor freshly scrubbed, wandered into the office. "Some­thing should be done about the StUdent body president!" he an­nounced, and wandered out again. As of Sunday night, there were no candidates, filed. or even ac­curately rumored, for the office of secretary. John Gearen, pre­sent SBP, speculated that this was because of an.apparent lack of active interest in student gov­ernment on the pan of the soph­
. omores. 

Bob Guenard, the present sec­retary, said that his position involved a great deal of busy work, but that a general revi­sion of the student government 
constitution,  now  underway,  
would  relieve  that  problem  in  
in future years.  

The first race won, that to get tqe top spot on the ball?t, ~BP can• didate Minch Lewis, deep in thought, leaves the nommatmg area. In the background John Philips, also a SBP candidate, talks with Paul Walker (right). (Voice Photo by jeTTy Premo) 





This summer, 
adventure through 

has the right tours Bt the right prices. 
·Would you like to sun-bathe on the· Mediterranean? Browse in . the Louvre? Live with a family in Spain? Or just roam through 
.Rome? TWA offers you the adventure of your choice, from . 
14 to 68 days, at a reasonable price. You can visit Europe's 
historic sights, hear delightful music, watch sparkling . . drama. Tours also combine sightseeing with college 
courses at famous universities. 
You travel with people your own age and meet people of 
your own age in Europe. Explore the most interesting 
places in England, France, Spain, Italy and many other 
countries. All accommodations ar~ reserved in advance.· 
Travel by comfortable motorcoach, or visit out-of-the­. way towns a.nd villages by bicycle. Wherever you want 
to go, whatever you want to do, TWA has a tour that suits· 
you perfectly. For further information, see your travel 
agent Orcontactyour local TWAoffice. 
Nationwide· .Worldwide depend on 



March 10, 1965 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Page 5 
. . . ' ' 
'Scholars'· to he Released from Courses 
By Steve Feldhaus could happen when the student 
fails to follow his pro-erranged 
Two progressive proposals have plan for submitting work, or recently been passed by the Aca-when his work is not up to the demic Council of the College of level expected. Arts and Letters. They are con-Students who fail a Special cerned with special plans of study Studies course, or who are dis-for brilliant juniors and seniors enrolled for any reason, may who wish to do fndiVidual and not take a similar course during creative work beyond the scope · the next semester; however, they of their present curriculum. , · will be eligible for consideration 
The first program is called the second semester•following. "Special Studies: Reading and The pro~ram whose participants Research," and those involved are called "Collegiate Scholars" in the second are to be called closely resembles a similarplan "Collegiate Scholars." at Yale, where those enrolled 
The Special Studies program are termed "Scholars of the is a continuation and refinement .House," of the "Directed Reading" The_ passing of this proposal by courses that have existed at the the Academic Council represents University for anumberofyears, a significant development in the 
Unlike the "Directed Reading" intellectual atmosphere _at No-courses, which. were under no tre Dame, departmental or college super-This program is designed to vision and were mostly attempts recognize and complement the of indiVidual professors to help desire of some few mature sen-advanced students, the Special iors who wish to do individual Studies courses will be installed research and who find the re-as regular courses in all the quirements of their departments departments of the College of ·chafing. Arts and Letters, Under careful guidance, and 
One of the main objectives of this proposal is to consolidate all the eXisting Directed Reading 
' 
Thysis and Di.ssertadon Typing 
Each of these beauties is the lowest · 
Wanted. Experienced, accurate, reasonable rates. . 
priced.in its line. But the ride doesn't Mrs, John Motsinger · 
show it. Or the interior. Or the 
1702 E, 12th, Mishawaka 
. performance. . ' 
Tel. 259,·1304 
· That luxurious Biscayne is as roomy · as many expensive ~rs, has color-keyed INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ID 
. , interiors, plush vinyls, fine fabrics, full CARD 
deep-twist carpeting. · Chevelle, America's favorite inter­
-for discounts in USA and 28 countries, 
mediate-size car, has clean new styling, wide doors, roomy, tasteful interiors
STUDENT SHIPS to Europe 
and Chevrolet easy-care features. CHARTER FLIGHTS within Europe 
· · Chevy II got a lot smarter.for '65­but ·stayed. sensible! Still family-size,.
.Write: Dept. CP 
easy to handle, economical, and the U.S.National Student Association 
·_lowest priced Chevrolet you can buy.· 
· after close scrutiny, this select 
group of seniors will be freed 
from all the requirements · of 
the regular curriculum of the 
senior year, and will be allowed_ 
to pursue a program of self­
disciplined research. 
It is emphasized that the title 
"Collegiate Scholar" is not a 
free ticket to wander over the 
intellectual horiz.on during the 
senior year. 
Each student accepted for this 
program, will be first closely 
screened by the Steering Com­
mittee of the C.A.P. andtheDean 
of his college. He will be re­
quired to submit, with the ap­
proval of his advisor, a written 
agenda outlining his projected 
course of studies for the entire 
year. 

The areas of his study must 
comply, if not in detail, at least 
in spirit, with the requirements 
of the University. This is to pre­
vent intensive specialization and 
to insure that the student obtains 
his "college" education. In other 
words, this is a collegiate pro­
gram, and is not a kindergarten for graduate school. 
Central to each Scholar's plan of study is a substantial senior essay or creative project. This is the purpose of the program: to allow brilliant students to es­cape the confines of regular course material and to give them the opportunity to do original work. 
A Collegiate Scholar, just as a student who isinaSpecialStudies course, will be required to find a professor in his major field who is interested in his work and who would be willing to act as an advisor. This advisor, a­long with a reading board who will evaluate the Scholars' crea­tive work, will determine the grade for the course. 
It is a 15 hour course, and the only one the scholar may take. Due to the effect that failing a 15 hour course could have on a stu­dent, the Academic Council has taken special care to set up strict requirements that will al­low no desultory students to enter the program, 
Also, the Scholars will be watch-
courses under one administrative head, and thus to find out who and how many are involved in such programs, 
Once this is done, compensa­tion for these professorswho are doing extra work on their own can be arranged,. with perhaps outside help from . a foundation grant, 
Only juniors and seniors on the Dean's Iist are eligible for the Special Studiescourses,.They must find a professor who is willing to guide them, and with him they must work out before the beginning of the academic 
. year a program of studies that . · is acceptable to the department in question. · 
Special Study courses are worth • three credits_and will emphasize indiVidual · work on the part of the student. A student in such a course will have an advisor with whom he will meet during the 
· course of the year and who will be responsible for his grade. 
This is not, however, a tutorial program. The advisor-: isjust that an advisor-who is to guide the student's· independent intellectual 
· advancement, The meetings be-· tween the professor and student are to be' informal; it is· hoped ~ that they can even take advantage of the new dining hall arrange-:­ment. 
Students who ·do not meet the · requirements of the course may 
,·be disenrolled bytheirinstructor before the end of the semester without failing the course. This 
The Jose Molina Bailes E span­oles,. a Spanish dancing troupe, will appear at O'Laughlin Audi-:· torium at SMC tonight at 8 p,m. 
Typing 
'65 CHEVROLET 
These g_reat performers a~e the. lowest priced models at our One-StQp Shopping Center 
Top to bottom: Checy II 100, CoT11air 500, Chevelle soo, . Ch_evrolet Biscayne. All ~-door models. 
Or get a sporty rear-·engine hardtopin a · Corvair· Sport Coupe or Sport Sedan for fun in the months ahead. 
Chevrolet, Chevelle and Chevy II are available with the Turbo-Thrift Six for fuel economy, quick wannups, quietidling. It's· light, efficient, smooth and 
spirited. · . · At swinging stores. · · • 
Corvair's air-cooled ·rear-mounted Turbo-Air Six delivers the best balance Press-Freee an.d ~raction for discover the
this size car. • Post-Grad 
So be practical. difference · Only you will · • · slacks by 
know. Because it A?hi5£!=if. ·J 
ed very closely at the beginning to see ff they are doing their work. If after a few weeks it is decided they are not adaptable to the plan, . then they will be allowed to switch back into the regular curriculum without any loss of credit. 
Anyone interested in reading more 'about these proposals should pick up literature avail­able in room 345 O'Shaughnessey, 
Those thinking in terms of next semester should not delay in looking into this as the deadline for submitting proposals isApril 25, at which time you must have found a willing professor and have worked out a plan of studies for the coming year. 
Are you still 
. . 
.


wearing those creasy kid slacks? 
0 

Get into some wised-upPost-Grads that know where acrease should always be and where it should never be, and how to keep things that wayThe reason is the Koratron~ fabric of 65% Dacron*/35% cotton. No matter how manytimes you wash andwearthese trimly tapered Post-Grad slacks, they'll stay completely neat and make tne. iron obso~ lete. In tan, clay, black, navy or loden, $6.98 in poplin or gabardine, $7.98. in oxford. 
sure won't show! 


' ,··1:, 
· Drive something really new-:-discover the difference at your Chevrolet dealer's
265 Madison Avenue New YorkJ N.Y. 
Cl1eiJrolet •Cl1evelle •Clle~g H •Coroair· Corvette
· 10010 · 
·11 
I 
I .: I 
I' 

Page 6 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Ma_rch 10, 1965 


Engineering Honor Code. to Allow Group Study 
Student engineers were re­assured last week that group study and the exchange of ideas on theirwork were not considered Violations of the Honor Code. 
This conclusion wasexpressed in a set of guidelines for the engineering student concerning his "unique problem" in rela­tion to the Honor Code. The re­port was drawn up by a special committee of the JointEngineer­ing . Council and distributed throughout the College of En­gineering. 
According to the report, stu­dents can discuss material and exchange ideas only after the assignment is attempted individ­ually. The same principle holds for lab work where each man contributes to part of the ex­periment, and the. report •• states periment, and the report states that, ''the final written report, excepting data, calculations and curves must be the indiVidual' s own." 
The last. section of the pai:er explains that the procedure for tests are not altered. Only the indiVidual student's work is ac­ceptable, and any other aids are considered cheating 
These suggestions were drawn up in close cooperation with professors representing each de­partment in Engineering. Al­though concerned with the matter . of cooperation among students in lab experiments and homework assignments, the report is in no way contradictory to the Honor 
Code. 
Chairman Jim Blue said the committee felt that engineering students could misinterpret the Code to mean that the safest way for them to workwasinisolation. He emphasized hisbeliefthatthis negative reaction to the punitive part of the Code restricts an important part of an engineer's education. Today's · engineers must rely heavily on cooperation in their work both forexpediency and accuracy, and it was decided that the student should be en­couraged to develop this skill of working with a team. 
When the report was originally planned, each department was going to make specific sug­gestions for students taking courses in that department. How­ever, the professors were in a­greement on the main points to the extent that additional sections weren't necessary. 
Greeley Lecture 
Rev. Andrew M, Greeley, na­
tionally known sociologist, will 
speak on ''The Role of the 
Parochial School in America" 
at St. Joseph's Grade School next 
Tuesday evening, March 16, at 
8 p.m. . 
Fr. Greeley is the author of 
Strangers in the House and The· 
Church in the Suburbs, among 
other books. He has also contri­
buted articles to America, Com­
monweal, and the Critic. Pre­
sently he is a staff member of 
the National Opiniori Research 
C.enter ·at the University of Chi­
cago. 

AIE~EC Forms .Chapter 
The "Associationinternationale · leans Public Service. has also des' Etudiants en Sciences et promised a position. 

A mixed audience crowded Washington Hall last Aspects, of Marriage," Residents of Chicago, Wednesday to hear the open_ing talk in the annual they have previously delivered talks at Cana .Ma"iage Institute series. , . . Con/erences and are active in the Christian Fam• 
Mr. and Airs. Jerry Frazell wz/1 deliver the sec• ily Movement. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire) ond talk. tonight at 7:30 p.m. on the "Pr·ict;c_rzl 
Student.Group Assists_ atChildr-en's Hospital 
By Rick Schlee£ St. Mary's. A low, sprawling building on The work done is sometimes Notre Dame Ave. appears .cold discouraging, yet always reward-and sterile on the outside; but it ing. report volunteers. The high-is filled with an inner warmth est l. Q. of the patients at the and love that is seldom if any-hospital ranges about SO;the low-where found. The Voltm.teer Ser-est, those of the "crib cases", Vice Organization of the Northern isn't even measureable, Thevol-Indiana Children's Hospital for unteer student's role, includes the Mentally Retarded is helping playing with the more advanced to add to that warmth, to bring children, helping them to ride to helpless children "the only their bicycles, throwing a· ball world they have." Spearheaded around, looking through a maga­by student chairman Don Zone · zine with· them, trying to :get 
This is the principle behind the volunteer group --persorial con­
tact. . . 
The ratio of staff members at the hospital to patients is roughly one staff member to five or nine children. The 'volunteers, by their close personal association with the child, helps to bring the world into them, to help them o­pen up to the people and events around them, 
The volunteers work at a Vari­ety of times; the "play periods" 
and Vice-chairman Bob Demling, ·them to speak. alwayshopingthat .. of· the children are many and 
Commerciales," orAIESEC,. ·.has During this_ school year, the • the organizationtakes its volun-. by this :rersonal contact theywill therefore easily adaptable to the· 
__established a chapter on campus group· here--,viU arrange· liVing 
this year. The main feature of accommodations, welcoming and the organization, designed to pro-social life for the Visiting stu-Vide a working view of inter-dents. national business and association Campus president of AIESEC is between economics and com-Dennis Dotson. Elmer Martin is merce students of many lands, is vice-president, Robert Seaman a summer"workingtraineeship" secretary and Charles Shamia 
program .in foreign countries. treasurer. Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi 
' This summer, six Notre Dame of the d~partment of marketing students will work in manage-· is faculty adVisor. ment trainee positions with for-Book Dri·ve eign firms. In exchange the local chapter of AIESEC has so far . 1\Text ITT.eek arranged similar traineeships 11, W I for foreign students with four The Academic Commission is firms in this area and one in-sponsoring a book drive for the Louisiana. . newly-formed student paperback 
Supplying jobs are Dodge Man.:. library from Sunday, March 14 ufacturing Corp., Associates In-through Friday, March 19• Door-vestment Co., Wheelabrator to-door collections will be taken Corp. and St. Joseph's Bank, all up nightly in each of the halls, in the South Bend area. New Or-and a final general . collection _ . will be held Friday, There will // / (J}) . . also be a box proVided beneath J/4cttf;;e uWU{/J({ej, the off-campus 'bulletin board 
PROFITABLE BUSJNE,ss • SATISFYING HOBBY for donations. FREE CATALOG 

& SPECIAL The Memorial Library has pur-INTRODUCTORY chased some 250 paperbacks as a OFFER start for the student library. Complete easy instruc­
lions for making sterling
silver and gold filled ro• _· <::?n l• ,u t saries plus rosaries to be p IT) JC, 5
~!~~ 1~r yJ~fs /tJ~~'.0 ~ ~. 
obligation. 

LEWIS & COMPANY 
teers from both Notre Dame and gradually pick up a few words. class schedules of the students. From Monday through Saturday, Science Fair Scheduled for April _the classes occur at 9:30-11:00 
The 1965 Northern Indiana-Re­gional Science Fair will be held at Notre Dame April 2 and 3. 
Between four and five hundred young people, ranging fromfour­th graders through high school seniors,. are expected to .erect exhibits in the biological and physical sciences in Stepan Cen­ter, according to Dr. Emil T.
C E } 
Hofman, director of the affair. 
The science fair isjointly spon­sored by 'Notre Dame· and the South Bend Tribune. It is one of a year-long series of events being held in conjuction with the C.en­tennial of Science. 
Awards will be presented in three divisions ata'stepan Center ceremony at 4 p.m. Saturday. 
OUrSe Va Uation 

(Continued from page 1) 
· as being prepared now will be aries it is paying.•• much moredescrii;tivethaneval-Along this line, Brejcha points 
500 3rd Ave,, Troy, N. Y. 12.3 PANG, · , tions decides. to quit the school ·--------------': if we lose a bad prof, we are all i;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;:;;;;;;;;:.::=;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:.::.:-.:;;;;;;;;;;.:;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;:;ai1· the better for it.'' 
uation. He disagrees though, on the ideal evaluation system. 
Brejcha feels that too much freedom by the students in their evaluative comments will lead only to antagonism and will serve no useful purpose. Hearguesthat the stude_nts really do not have enough knowledge, nor the right to make such judgements, 
Pope answers this objection by pointing out that the purpose of an evaluation book is toincreasethe
l"be f th · ·cy

ca l r o e uruversi courses. 
Therefore, if some ofthe courses are bad, they should not be tol­erated. 11 After all," he says "so what if a teacher who has re­ceived exceedingly poor evalua­

' ~JloJIS( ofVisiPH 1~-· Crlljtsmt,r ;,, OJrki 
.FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES . NOW, IN SOUTH BEND. (HE SHERLAND·BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1468 
'CiteJluusc uf 1!fsitJH l11r. 
· -. Main Office: 135 N. Waba~I, Ave. -Chicago 
"While this in theory might be true,'' others on ,the committee admit, "it doesn't get around the problem that a booklet sanctioned and financed by the university can 
hardly be expected to harshly condemn the teachers whose sal­

Cyr's Barber Shop 
MICHIANA'S LEADING . BARBER SHOP 
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House S~uth Bend, Imlia.na 

out that the Harvard Confidential Guide and its. counterpart at Ceil., Berkley, The State, are not 
•sponsored by those University. 
· students' write and IXJblish both. They receive no funds from the school and thus are entirely in­dependent. 
"By_ the very fact that w_e are receiving $100 from the univer­sity," Brejcha emphasizes, "we have a string attached to our puplishings.'' 
a.m., and 2:00-3:00 p.m., 3:45­
5:00 p.m., and 7:30-8:30 p.m. · 
Night classes usually include physical therapy such as swim­ming (even those who can't walk enjoy the bouyant feeling of the water). Cartoon shows are also shown as part of the evening periods. Volunteers may spend 
as little or as much of their time as they wish, signing up for one or more of the· hour to an hour and a quarter periods. 
Volunteers, especially among the underclassmen, are needed as most of the currentvolunteers are seniors. Those interested in this charitable work may con­tact either Don Zone or Bob Demling in· Sorin, _ Pete Seifert in Lyons or Dr. Bender, Pro­fessor of genetics here at Notre, Dame. 
Th st d t · t ted will
ose u en s m eres 

b , · t f the h sp1·tal so
e given a our o o 
they can see first hand what , work they will be doing. Two letters of reference will also be needed before the applicant will be accepted. 





CJF.Picks· Up Tempo·: 
Plans for the annual Collegiate Jazz Festival are getting a quick 
· ui;tempo as Committee members move the project closer and closer to the opening downbeat April 9th. General ChairmanDan Ekkebus is optimistic about the success of those plans. 
"In the past six years, CJF has grown from an event dreamed up to fill an empty weekend to an event of international im­portance on the jazzscene," says Ekkebus. 
-"I see this year's festival as the turning point· from growth to maturity," he adds. Instead of the 25 more. groups that were presented in the past the field will be narrowed to 18 groups. · 
"This way, the guests a CJF 
will hear only the top big bands . 
and combos from all across the 
nation.'.' 
Clark Terry, "The Most Re­
spected Trumpet in Jazz" will 
be one of the panel of judges • 
sifting the top six groups from 
two initial sessions. 
•The first session begins on Fri­day evening April 9th 'at 7:15 
. p.m., the second on Saturday afte~oon at 1:00 p.m. The final session will be at 7:30 p.m. Sat­urday and will close with the an­nouncements . of individual and group winners. 

March 10, 1965 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Page 7 

Challenge_ 11 Car Sh.ow Becomes Nation's Largest ­
The Challenge 11 Sports' Car 
Show, in its second year, has 
become the largest exhibit of-its 
kind in the United States, claims 
Larry Wind, its publicity man. 
The show will be in the Stepan 
Center April 23 to 25, with all 
proceeds .to go to the Univer­
s1ty' s Challenge 11 Fund Drive. 
One of the prime exhibits, Wind 
said, will be 14 Ferraries, the 
larges t contingent ever as­
sembled in the United States, in­
cluding the world's oldest known 
presently-existing model. This 
collection will be here because 
of the meeting of the Ferrari. 
Chili of America in conjW1ction 
with the show, 
Other exhibits will include the Cord, a. prototyre car made en­tirely of rubber:. the Mercer­Cobra, the styling Winner at this y~ar' s Paris ~uto Show; and a Buesenberg supposedly once be­longing to Al Capone, The first 396 Corvette off the production -line will appear at the show, along with the ScotchplaidGr1ffithcars (with the Scotch plaid Griffith 
girls), , 
Radio station WJVA will broad-. cast remote from the Stepan Cen­ter, AM and FM, for two days of the show, and the South Bend "Tribune" plans a story on the cover of its Sunday magazine be­fore the show, 
Don't stumble through the literary classics. CLIFF'S. NOTES will help yo,1 make better grades! These study a ids give you a clear, concise summary and explanation, chapter by · chapter.CLIFF'SNOTES are now being used by high school and college students throughout the United States. There are over 100 different CLIFF'S NOTES cover­ing the literary classics. 
,· ~~
$1 ,.,,,. ....... "" :::... 
at your~ -favorite · bookstore. . or· write: 
BETHANY ST~IION 
. . ~LN.N(S~~SKA ~s~os .. 


iCliffSiNa.teL 
In addition, the . show has re­ceived a banner proclaiming the show that will be hung by the South· Bend ·Chamber of Commerce's "Committee of 100" over a main street in town•. 
AB_Engineers InJEC 

The Arts and LettersEngineer:, .vere granted membership in the Joint Engineering Council at the JEC meeting Sunday night. 
Don Moran, Gary Morrow, and Jack Gerkin presented the case for the AB Engineers, who ~ly last semester formed an organi­zation among themselves.Nearly an hour of debate followed before the JEC voted 12-11 to give the AB men a seat on the council. However, the council's vote gives them only a probationary seat, subject to reView next year, · 
~ . 

1962--N.D. wanted a newspaper ... it got one, the Voice. 1963--The Voice wanted support ... you gave it, resoundingly. 
1964--The Voice wanted more ads...it built a 1000% increase. NOW--The ever-growing Voice wants to enlarge its staff. 
We are looking for more news and sports writers, copy and proofreaders, layout people, ad. salesmen and edi­. torial writers• 
If this means w:e want you, apply .for a staff position now. 
Mail a brief letter containing your background in journal­ism, class and reason for wanting to join to: 
The Voice, PO Box 11, U. of N.D. Deadline is March 15 
. . . . 
1·didn't think Charlie was that kind of guy... 
That car 
he's ddving tonight... 
He's Yes, 

bucket seats, . always been I know. 
carpeting, · Frankly, I 

Yes, · sort of a, Wide ties, 
who does he think well, ·wide lapels 
console, don't think 
Hi,

he's going ·Charlie.
vinyl trim, he can 
to impress?
big VB. afford it.

you know what. and all. 


It's Dodge Coronet. And frankly, Charlie can afford it. So can you. Coronet. The hot new Dodge at a new lower price. 
.. Coronet 500.sports the following as standard equipment: all-vinyl interior.-hom bucket seats, full carpeting, · padded dash, directional signals.. backup lights, deluxe wheel'covers, center console, 273 cubic inch VB. 
. DODGE DMSION ~~ CHRVSLE_R
-··ss. Dodge Caranet 
. . . ~ MIJTllRS CORPORATION 

S~e all the new Dodges on display at your nearby Dodge Dealer's.. 
-----------WATCH "THE BOB HOPE' SHOW," NBC-TV. CHECK. YOUR LOCAL LISTING.----------­


Page 8 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
March 10, 1965 

Houston· D1,ops Irish From NCAA Tourney 
The University af Houston bas­The Irish held the leadthrough­-fetball team defeated Notre Dame 
out most of the second half, 
·on Monday night 99-98 in an thanks primarily to Jesewitzwho overtime in Lubbock, Texas. The scored 14 points after intermis­loss eliminates the Irish from 
sion. But Houston rallied and tied 
the . NCAA tourney and ruins 
the game with 6:26 left. Fifty­_ Coach Johnny Dee's hopes for a five seconds later WaltSahmwas trip to the tourney finals inPort­
charged with his fifth p;!rsonalland, Oregon next week. foul and was replaced by Bucky The season is over for the Irish 
McGann. and for seniors Jay lv1lller, Walt The lead change9 hands several 
Sahm, Larry Sheffield, Ron Reed times before Houston managed to · and Larry Jesewitz there will be move ahead 88-85 with less than and Larry Jesewitz there will not minute showing on the clock.
a be another. But Sheffield scored on a drive The Irish started slowly before and with 41 seconds to go Miller the partisan Texas crowd, miss­canned a foul shot which tied the.· ing their first four shots and 
game and set up the overtime. falling behind 15-5, They re­bounded, however, and by half­time had taken a 49-40 lead. 


Clark Cuts Five More Secs. Runs Record 8:52. 7 
lt seems that Bill Clark will solid finishing kick in the last not be stopped. Churning around lap and a half, he crossed the 
Jude Lenehan an_d John Wyllie trade wild rights in last year's championship bout. Lene­
the oval track of Madison Square tape with O'Reilly not less than 
/:Jan won a close decision, (Voice Photo by Pat Fo0rd)
Garden. Clark chipped off 4-9 se­60 yards behind. conds from his last record break­But Clark wasnotthe onlyIrish­ing p;!rformance. The rettingwas man to ·return with a sound p;!r­
Bouts Cap Extensive Training·
in New York last Saturday at the fonnance. Out of Notre. Dame's IC4A (Inter-Collegiate American eight man contingent, six quali­
weight • chamP-football player:Amateur Athletic Association) fied for the Saturday night finals. What Notre Dame athletes train In those ·early years Mr. Hurley Bill Hill, 125 lb, champ: Bill
Track and Field Championships. Three of .these (including Clark) extensively for 60 days and com­was the guiding spirit and pro­Predebon, 155; Ray Flynn, 160;moter of the Bouts while Nappy Clark's time of 8:52.7was a re­were able to place. Ed Dean and pete for at most 27 minutes?The 
and Jude Lenehan and Mike Smith, · 
cord, erasingthe previous record Bob Walsh were able to finish Bengal Eouters, of course, They handled the conditioning and 165 pounders,
3,4 in the mile run. These three start after Christmas antl work match-making.
of. 8:58.3 set in 1%2 by Yale's Other outstanding veteran box­
Bob Mack.. But Clark set more accounted for. Notre Dame's 10 right up until fight t(me getting Nappy still handl~s these latter into shape, sparring and pre-duties ,md has assumed Mr. Hur­ers include 165 pounders Ted
than a record this time. He also points. 
Valenti, Jerry Houlihan and John 
scored an over all Next week the team will travel paring to fight. . . ley's duties well.
upset the as· Nappy Wyllie,
to Chicago to enter the Chicago Some compete for no more than watches all the fighters closely
favorite Eamon O'Reilly of The division was out­
Georgetown. With a flashy but Relays. · one round: others get into the throughout their training, ob­165 lb, standing last year and will befinals, But all are dedicated and serves their sparring exercises again this year, Besides theseall go throught the same vig­and from these observations de­veterans an outstanding novice, orous conditioning program. cides which fighters are most
-Swi~ Record is. 5-6 Buck Hunter, will compete at
This year fight time is March evenly matched. The Notre Dame swimmers in diving (fim Kennett), 200 yd. 15, 17 and 19 in the fieldhouse. No fighter ever enters the ring 165. .· completed their reason· last freestyle (Jack Stoltz), 200 yd, . Challenging Schiralli in · the
The Bouts are now intheir 34th with a man who could absolutely . week-end-with a Friday night breast (Bill Ramis);· SOO·yd.·free .year ~and Dominic "Nappy'' Na;.: dominate him. There is.rarely a . heavyweight class wilf be sopho­
more footballer John Lium, Tony 
victory over Washington Univer­Qim Bohan) and 400 yd. medlay politano has been an integral mis-match, (We can only think Carey will not fight this year andsity and a SaturdaylosstoLoyola Oohn Frey, Bob Husson, Tim part of them since their inaug-of one in the last two years: in 
o! Chicago, The team · finished Krist! and Paul Drucker). · neither will 147 lb. Tom Echewa
.uration in 1933. last year's 175 lb, final Dan 
with a 5-6 record. On Saturday night the tankers whose fight in· the finals with
Before 1933 Rockne had spon­l\1anion annihilated his opponent 
were not· so successful though. Farrell last year was one of the 
Friday night most of the team's sored some intra-mural boxing, after a little over a minute of the 
we~ troundea by Loyola highlights of the Bouts,
points were collected from dom­They but it had not been too popular first round,) And there.hasnever .ination of the second and third 59-36. Soph Husson did have a and never was very successful. been a serious injury to a fight­The Bouts are sponsored by 
places in the various events, go~d night however, rettinganew Nappy and a N,D. classmate of er. the campus Knights of Columbus -Washington U. took six first varsity ·record in the 200 yd, and the proceeds go the Holy
the class of '32, Mr. Neil Hur­places to five for the Irish, but breaststroke with a clocking of ley, got together and set up a Seven Champs Cross missions in Bengali, N,D. won the .m~et comfortably 2:23, Stoltz, probably the team's limited boxing program, It pros­Indi~, Knight Frank Malley is
This year the Bouts boast seven 
55-39. most consistent swimmer all the promoterthis year. The Bouts 
pered in their hands and is now 
defending champions, Pat Far­
year, won tl1'.· 200 free again on have campus wide interest, how­
Notre .Dame's victories came nationally known.. "Sports Illus­rell, last yea~ s. outstanding ever, for the trophies for the tenSaturday, Pat.~ Devlin won the trated" did a feature story on the fighter and 147lb, champ returns,
diving and Kristl took the 200 champions are donated by vari­
Bou:s in 1956.
Sailors 4th as do Angelo Schiralli, heavy-
butterfly•.. ous campus organizations,The sailing chili of Notre Dame began its Spring season in New 

Wrestlers Tie Marquette, Bow to Ball State-------~--~
Orleans . by competing in the Windjammer Regatta held on Notre Dame's wrestling.team, and Bill Schickle easily defeated D m , · b k PUBLIC CAFETERIA t
i

b st d b st rf . . a e s come ac • . h . . H 11 t
February 27th and 28th ai: the • o ere Y_ ronr:p;! o~ances Bob Balmes 13-2 in the 177pound Although drawing a full-house Soul OtnlnR a Mardi Gras, · m the heavier Welght_ d1V1sions, d~el'. Arrington gained his 12th and scoring his 13th straight pin, i SODA FOUNTAIN f Notre Dame placed fourth came from behind to tie a strong pm m as many matches by dis-Captam · o·1ck A i gton could ·f · • .• •· f
rr n not · 
against stiff competition due to Marquen_e team 16-16 here last posing of Vince King in _2:41. prevent Ball State from dealing :I . Mon. thru Frt. the fine performances of Captain Fri~~mght, . . Marquette jumped to an early his team a 17-13 defeat in the · 7: 30 A.~1.-9:3o P.~1. f · Happy Fox and Jim Culley of di­/'railwg1 l6-5he~:\ the farsc lead when Jim Peltey pinned the( Saturday afternoon meet, ------­vision A, and Bob Sullivan and 1ve mate 1e:.t s came ond !rish's 123 pounder John Jordan· In the.1231b, class, victorycame ;?, 
· Clayborne Perrilliat of the B di­strong to ta e the last three an m 5:44, Notre Dame evened the · ~ vision. The only other .Mid-· knot the score. Two p~omis!ng · score 5-5 as Ted Purvin won by swiftly for Ball State. It took ::: western entry represented at the sop~omores an:1 Ca,IXam Dick .forfeit. in the 130 pound bracket. Bob Ashman of Ball State ·just r, meet was Indiana. The Hoosiers 
Arnngton provided t~ impetus The Warriors then took ·three 35 seconds to pin a somewhat ~ outscored the Irish sailors by a fo': the late rally. straight as Bob Carey (137) was .. stunned John Jordan. :;, mere three-fourths of a point, Jim. Bowers won a ~105; 5-3 pinned and Clete Williams (147). The 130 lb. class was more of Fashion ~ securing for themselves third decision ~ve • the Warrior~ _J~hn and Mike Eiben (157) lost de-a struggle, as Ted Purvin of the 0 place and a trophy as well. Weidner m the 167 pounddivts1on cisions to set the stage forNotre Irish came alive in the 2nd round; Leaders .,,
only to lose (8-7) in a close i
Florida State won the meet while 
· match, Unfortunately, the Irish }host school Tulane University 
could .not come this dose in the ...
for

finished second. · 
137 lb. division, John Barnett of . ~ 
The club has eight meets re­maining. The toughest one will 
~:!:\~~~oranned all over Bob ~

High School 
be the Mid-Atlantic Conference 
Clete Williams foll to a (2-1) de-·tlntersectional meet to be held at 
feat in the 147 lb. class, despite G
and · 

Annapolis on April 10th and 11th. 
absolutely dominating the final ~ 
Notre Dame has been the con­ference champion for the last 
roW1d and a half; and 177 lb. Bill CII < 
five years. · · 
Schickel t'ost a (10-4) decision O ege men. ~ 
•in his match. Only Jim Bowers 'l:Because' the whole first A di­
and Dick Arrington were able to gvision graduated lastJune, Happy put team points on the sco·re­
Fox sees a great need for im­provement, He feels the team has. 
board for the Irish. Bowers man­aged to hold onto an early lead todeJXh though, as evidenced by win (10-7), and it took Arringtonupp;!rcalss sailors Jim Grant,
j only a minute to remind the crowd 
Tom Malloy, Frank May and ?vfike 
that he could be headed for an·Eiben. Two promising freshmen NCAA championship, The crowd
are Andy O'Conner. and Steve Dick Arrington crushes his Marquette opponent in a contest last• Wright•. ing 2:14, last Friday night, (Voice Ph.oto by Jerry Premo) did not need the reminder. 
Foto News Litho -RamaH Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 





