j 

_I Balls and Concert Marli I 
" 
Spirit of '76 Weekend 
The "Spirit of'76", Notre Dame football revolted, The undefeated · gin her reign Friday night with Homecoming 1964, will officially Irish go· after number five plus -her crowning at Homecoming­begin this Friday, and conclude a national ranking and bowl re­Stepan after the campuswide on Sunday with the Communion cognition against a strong, yet in­election held Monday, She will Breakfast in the North Dining consistent Stanford team, lead the Homecoming Parade a­Hall. The decorations for the Ball at round campus on Saturday start­Just as the thirteen American the Stepan Center (Friday, 9 to 1) ing at 10:30. Floats will be those colonies revolted for freedom in will consist of Revolutionary War made by the campus clubs and a 1776, so too has N:itre Dame in scenes in the entrance tent and at $100 prize will be awarded to the 
Henry Mancini 

Woody Herman the 76th year of Fighting Irish the entrance to Stepan, Drapes club with the best "Spirit of'76" will be hung around the Stepan float. Center, while varied lighting techniques will enhance the dance The parade will form in front of
THE 
the old library, proceed to the
floor and simplify decorations, _Tables, which can still be re­main quad and across the quadto served in the Social Commission the circle, It will approach the 
office before 5:00 p,m, tomorrow administration and cut off bet­will be arrangedaround the dance ween Washington Hall and La­floor which is in the shape of a fortune, then pass in front of the 
cross. ·For convenience, there new library, There the football will be three refreshment stands coaches' wives will judge the around the Stepan Center and floats, 
Volume 3, Number 4 THE VOICE, Notre .Dame, Indiana October 21, 1964 waiters will serve the drinks at 
The traditionalHallDecorationsthe tables, Contest will also be judged onHomecoming II at LaFortune Saturday morning,(also Friday, 8:30 to 12:30) will
_Stay-hall System To Include Froffl 
feature the Billy May Orchestra The Homecoming ConcertSat­Under the direction ofDan Belloc, urday night, featuring Henry
hall unity as the keys to the stu­
Mancini and his orchestra hashadby Stephen Feldhaus in a vote scheduled for Dec. 7, dent's life on campus. and LaFortune will also be decor­a good response in ticket sales.
this bill will enable new students Also stressed was sophomore ated according to the "Spirit of 
escape confines of the '76". As of last weekend all of the Re-
A new stay-hall system isbeing to the class breakupintothepoorrooms -served Seats andthree-fourths of
proposed for next yearonthe Not­freshman ghetto and will allow· of all the halls ifthisbillispass­On the ceiHng of the ballroom i re Dame campus. Seenasthekey them the chance to stayinone hall ed. -there will be an inverted football the Reserved Section were sold l 
to this change is the breakup of for their entire four years here, The incoming freshmen and all field, with the polesasgoalposts. out, There will be an additional j 
ticket sale tomorrownight aswell
the concept of the class and the It is hoped that this would create the upperclassmen would be Each table will have as a center­formation of the hall as the unit a true stay-hall system, in con-piece a miniature football field as at the door Saturday night. 
I
of university life. The impor­trast to the present plan. placed in the halls on a fixed per-with "76" on it, The entrance The "Spirit of '76" will conclude 
tant aspect of this controversial Student Body President John centage basis: Freshmen 32%; foyer will be draped with a thir­on Sunday with a communion I t' change will be the integration of Gearen noted that the classes are Sophomores ?5%; Juniors ?2%and teen-star American flag and a breakfast in theN:>rthDiningHall I the incoming freshmanclasswith becoming too la~e fororgani:zed Seni.ors ?!%, football to again suggest the after the 8:30 Mass. One of the 
l 

the upperclassmen in all the cam­class activities. He stated that No longer restricted to the "Spirit of '76", Ticketsare still speakers will be the University 
f

pus halls. the new residence plan would put Frosh Quad, the freshmen would available in the commission of­President, Father Hesburgh. For If passed by the Student Senate the emphasis on hall spirit and be expected to gafn a more mature fice. tickets, check in the Social Com-outlook .from their associations The Homecoming Queen willbe--mission office.
S-o·lut1·o·n· Prepared 
with the upperclassmen, thusen­
-_ abling them to benefit from and to be a benefit to the University 
·Mexican Children 

For Hitching Pr'ohlem :~s:b;:;rlier stage n is now
tha To Receive Tutoring
A fact-finding committee is The Off-Campus committee of get together toworkoutanagree-_ scheduled to report its findings 
The success of the tutoring pro-spoke before a meeting of the

the Student Affairs Commission ment. to the Student Senate by Nov. 9. 
gram last year has inspired an: campus Council for the Inter­is preparing a proposal to the The editorial reported Mayor Stressing that this bill affectsthe expansion to a needy area inSouth national Lay Apostolate (CILA) •police department and mayor's Lloyd l'vf. Allen's statement at a students and should reflect their ~nd which has previously been about the possibility of extending:office of South Bend to alleviate press conference last week that views, Gearen urges all students missed, This is the Mexican mi-the tutors' services to come of..

the transportation troubles ''a suggestion for designation of to take an active interest in this grant workers who have settled the Mexican high school and jun­
; O; · caused by the recent crackdown a place where students -could issue by .discussing with their on the southwest end of town. ior high students. on hitch hiking. gather to seek rides to the cam-representatives the results of 
Three weeks ago Bill O'Brien. CILA is particularly suited :(orRay Myers, in charge -of the pus 'warrants consideration', this.committee's work, the head of the tutoring program,· this project because oftheirpre­
display for the weekend based on _ Joe Farrell escapes the lunge of several UCLA story of all-Saturday's Fall Open House is on 
page 5. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire.) 
Politics Tonight ­
defenders in the· Notre Dame victory. A picture
the 'Spirit of 76' theme, com­

memorating the 76th Season of Tonight at 7:30 p.ni. the sopho­I Irish football, Who's.Who? Nobody Tickets Available more class Academic Commis­' ,c-.t~ All displays must be completed sion will sponsor a panel discus­-'. ~' by 9:30 on Saturday morning and The Student Senate finally dis­the award. Season tickets for the· upcoming sion on the issues ofthe presiden­
·r judging will begin at approxi­continued the Who'sWho award at The Senate alsomanagedtofirst University Theatre season are tial election campaign. Dr. Paul mately 10:00, its meeting of October 12, and in pass and then reconsiderand send still available atWashington Hall. C. Bartholomew will moderate Pertinence to-the theme, orig­its place instituted the Presi­hack to committee the Desk Pad The season-ticket entitles the -the discussion in the Law Audi­inality and workmanship will be .dent's Medallion award, The de­Policy. The proposed legislation. holder to seatsat King Lear torium. highly considered by the four tails of this award have ncit been originally titled the Blotter Pol-by Shakespeare, the Caretaker The discussion will take the judges, one faculty memberfrom set'. icy; attempts to regulate the han by Pinter and the Brecht and form of statements by represen­the art department and one·from The Who's Who award has been ling of the campus blotterswhich WeiUThreepenny Opera. tatives of each candidate in turn the architecture school, the Pre­the subject of considerable debate are distributed free to the student -To obtain aseason ticket, one concerning the various issues of sident of the Hall Presidents' for the past several years, and body each fall; it also isdesigned should write to University Thea-· the campaign. There will be two . Council and the homecoming was widely. attacked as a mean­to prevent the position of Blotter ter at Washington Hall, or come Democratic and two Republican ·queen, ingless honor which benefits only Chairman from becoming a plum to the secretary's office, rear panelists. The announcement of the prize its Alabama publishers, Two given to friends of _the Social entrance to Washington Hall, any­A coffee hour in the Fiesta winners will be made· during the years ago, an unsuccessful at­Commissioner, time betweenl2:30and4:30week-Lounge of the Student C'.enterwill Stanford 'game, Trophies will be tempt was_ made to withdraw The Senate, after approving the days, The cost is $3,00 for stu­follow the discussion; All stu-­Notre Dame from· membership, 

awarded to the first, second and bill early in the meeting, re-dents and $3.50 for nonstudents, dents are welcome to attend. St.· tMrd place halls, hut at that time the Senate upheld versed itself. Mary's girls have been invited. 








The Speaker's Policy Anew 
We hate to see tacit approval given to Also, it should be made clear whether censorship. The recently passed Speak­or not the control of speakers is now in er's Policy does just this. But being the student senate, really, and if Admin­
realistic•.•censorship is here, now, in istration pressures can overrule (except the Administration, and the best that can for reasons now clearly stated in the be done is to ease the pressure of its policy). heavy hand. Furthermore,. there should be avenues 
If the newly approved senate policy opened for possible reconsideration by can ease that pressure then it could be­the ruling committee after campus ex­<::ome a step in the right direction. Per­pression is registered. haps. But, as the policy now stands it's The ..what to wear, how much to pay., Joubtful if that step is being taken in clauses are outside the senate's realm.--------------------------­
the best· way possible. It was hastily While petty in comparison to other con-WEDNESDAY Events Calendar OCTOBER 21 passed and demands correction and clar· siderations, they should be struck out. ification! It should be· returned to the There seems to be no reason to let the Chicago Club Movie: "Shane" 
7 and 9 p.m. Engineering Aud.

senate floor if its strengths and good chaff remain in what could be good grain points ar·e to be realized. · just because it seems a "minor thing.'' 
Soph Academic Commission: "Meet the Candidates" New thinking should include such a The policy can be defended only if: 7:30 p.m. Law Auditor.ium basic point as what actually constitutes 1) at le ust, the students are now really Dixie Club Banquet grounds for refusal -• what are the rules in more control than before over who 6 p.m. Frankie's and guidelines that senate members must 
they want. to hear; 2) if guidelines are 
New England Club Banquet

follow in reaching a decision on a poten­
clear as to what disqualifies a speaker; 6 p.m. New Rocco's dal. speaker? A well done effort here . 3) if proceedings are open to campus o­THURSDAY Oj'.::TOBER 22 would lessen the charges of Hprejudice" 
pinion; 4) if a decision can be reversed that fellow students can now level at 
Prof. John W. Houck: "Graduate School --Procedures and 

by the original committee; and 5) if the 
Opportunities••comm itte·e members after an unfavorable 

areas outside of senate rule are left out-. 
7:30 p.m. Room 104 O'Shag.

decision. It would also help foster a 
side. sense of student responsibility where it Wisconsin Club Movie: "Some Came Running" rightfully belongs --with the sponsor· B.S.J. Engineering Aud; 
ing club or organization•. 

Ticket Sales: "Henry Mancini Concert" Evening Meal Dining Halls · . FRIDAY· . OCTOBER ?3

A -President's Medallion 
After years of intense-criticism the Stu-Although in an editcfrial last year the Met Cltib Date Party 
7:30 p.m. .New Rocco's

dent Senate has decided to sever Notre VOICE advocated the continuation •Of Dame's affiliation with Who•s Who. In Who's Who because the students select­
tbmecoming Ball: Woody Herman Orchestra 

its place a ·policy committee of the Sen-ed were excellent representatives of No­
9 -1 p.m. . Stepan Center ate is working on plans for a new award tre Dame, there are..decided advantages ,given by the ·University to outstanding in. the :new President's Medaliio~. First tbmecoming 11: Billy May Orchestra 
8:30 -l?:30 p.m. Student Center. 

1.and dedicated seniors. This new award the award has as much; if not more 
. . ' SATURDAY OCTOBER ?4
is to be ca1led the President'-s .Medallion, meaning · on campus to those students 
Homecoming Parade and willb~. given by Father Hesburg to who·receive it. It will be giv~n by the 10:30 · a.m. · Main Qua:d those students who fulfill, liis qualifica-the President of the University at the Homecoming Concert: Henry Mancini 
lions ·of exemplary Notre Dame men. As awards banquet at the .end of the year, 8:15 p,m. Stepan Center . 
now· proposed, Father_ Hesburg will set and the merit of the·medallion will he to­. forth the ·general guide lines for select· tally in relation to Notre Dame and what 
Senior Class Party ing the 20 -25 receipents of the award, she stands for. The receipent will have 8:30 p.m. Robert's Supper Club 
but the selecting process -itself will be qualities that relate to Notre Dame par-OCTOBER · 25 
0 
in the hands of the students and .will be ticularily, and he will not be judged on SUNDAY .carried out in a manner similiar to the on nebulous qualifications handed down 
Homecoming Communion Breakfast 

one used for wh·c,•~ Who. by a national organization. The limit-North Dining Hall 
-· 9:45 a.m. The selection of the recepienrs for the ing from a possible maximum of 34 ·in President's Medallion will be coordina-Who's Who to a ·possible maximum of 25 Fort Wayne·c1ub Movie: "Rear Window" 
Engineering Aud...

ted by The Blue Circle and.decided upon is ·a tightening of the qualifica tions I:3o,. 3:4o, 6:30, 9 p.m. 
. . h . f h. .· 1.f. . .. MONDAY OCTOBER 26 
by representatives from the eight major ts a tig tenrng o t e qua 1 1cattons need-. organizations and four colleges on cam-ed to win an award.· Yet 25 is sufficient-. Pa~american Chili Movie: ."The Millionaires" pus. Applications will be accepted and ly large in number to give a good repre-7 and 9p.m. . . . EngineeringAud. . sentative body.. · · TUESDAY . OCTOBER 27
the twelve representatives will narrow . 
h · ··r· ld f a·d b r Probably one of. the most important im-·. · 
t e 1e -o can .1 ates to a out orty. H 11 p T. k s 1
provements is the .fact that all candi-. a oween arty ic et a es 
Intervie.wing dates will be established • . · Evening Meal Dining Halls dates will be seen by all the inter.view-:_ ... __ ·---------­
with each of chc can<lidates to go before 
·. · · b. ·d · -e.rs. ·· This w.as a. major. handicap.. in the
-two 's1x0 man oar s. THE _ 
What is important about the decision to old process because a few had to argue abolish Who's Who is that fact that it· the merits of an individual to the entire 
......

wasn't done just as a reaction to student board of.selectors who didn•t know the. 
OFNOTRE BAME

pressure; .but was carried· mfr after de-individual under discussion. Conse­tailed scrutiny of the advantag·cs and dis-quently if one person was. strongly in fa: Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni-_ ad,;antages of Who's Who, and i.>.fter a. vor . of. an individual, his . conviction .versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 7A, LaFortune Student Center;. 
Post Office Box 1 • 

good alternative plan had been tentative• . could ·sway the. entire' body~ Another 
. Board of Review ..•..•.• Rev. Daniel O'N~il. c;s.c.,John Gearenly formulated. Paul Walker, who initiated·· person equally qual_ified but without a 
. EDITOR ...•..........•.••. , .••.• , •. BARRY JOHANSON. 
h. · l · h · s d strong friend in the body of selectors
t e proposa • tn. t c enate to o a way .· Associate Editor: .•• , •••• , • , , ••••••• ~ •• , ; • Grover Nix m·. 
· h. h , · mh · d.d · ' k would go unrewarded. This problem· is N Edi · · 
wtt W o s " o; 1 . extensive. wor o• . , ews tor: .•.•. ; ..•...••.•.•..•.•.••..john Buckley 
easily settled by having all the inter-Assistant New5 Edit b · ki
ver the summer contacting large employ-. or:· • • • • • • • • .. , .. , .•• , •. Bo Lump ns m~nt. agencies to find out whether or not . viewers see all the candidates. The News Staff: •• ; •.••.• ; ... Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Terry . · · · breaking down of the selectors into two ·Murphy, Dan Murray, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble,
the Who• s ·Who · award gave any advan-Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick Veit, Alana McGrattan, Dan Fa­tage to a student seeking employment. six-man boatds prevents the· awesome fian, Stephen Feldhaus, Ray Faery, Buck McFadden, ·Rick Their answers consistently 'maintained task of facing-twelve men at once, and Schlees, Bill Siska Dick Ritter, Jerry Pockar Tom Anderson, 
that · what employers S()ught were , the. ins~res e·ach candidate two opportu~i_. and Pat Strickler qua.lilies that lead up to an aw~rd such_ . tie; in which to present himself. · Sports Editor: ..•........• ; ..........• George.Kruszewski.Th~ idea for the President's Medallion . Sports Sraff: • , · · · .. , Jim Hemphill, Vince Kaval, Mike Read, Dan 
as Who's Who, and that they did not con:-: . . · · . ,' Ferguson, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger .;sider the distinction ·an· advantage. in· rt-. is .still in the formulating stages, but its Business Manager: ..................... ; •. John O'Hanlon _. self..· This: evidence, coupled v.ith the, , conception· provides an excellent· oppor-.. Advertising Manager: ......... .:. .....•.• ; ••••• , Ken Socha ''fact' long maintained .that. Notre Dam'e.• .. tunity-forNotre Dameto 'create a mean-Advertising Salesmen: •..• ; ......... Cregg and Roger Barron ''.w.'as. the .onl~ s~hool o.f significance in . ingfui award ro·r. those se~iors who 'ha~e . Copy Editors: .. ; •. : . . ; ... : .. -... Bill Metz, L_ou Bartoshesky: 
1 · , · · · d · · Layout Editor: ••• ; ...•..........·.• ; ..•..• Dennis Kern· 
h.o•s ·. w.ho .t.here..~.y _I.ending· u.nwarr.e.n.te.d contributed the A L . ..
: .•. w. _ f N · ..greatly_:. h . to a vance"ment . ssistant ayout Editor:. .••.. ; •...••... , .• , • , Neil Bowen. <stature: t? the. organization;)ead. to the.· 0 . · ~t~_e Dame. 10 t eir.four years. Layout Staff: ...·..•.•..• ; .... :;.; .•••..•,.Steve Vogel· 15 ~-i vote 'in the Senate for discontinu-.. . 6N iti Proofreader: • · . · ..-.......••.....•• ; , John Radosevich Circulation Manager: ..•. •• .•.••.', .••.•••. ; •• .-Ted Purvin 
. ation. 

,...,, 
.· 


. ' 
::'--.-. 
..,~­

"" 


October 21, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana Page 3 
Ten Figures Nominated for Patriot Award 
are Kevin Regan, Mike Read, and 
Bob Hoag, 
''DACRON"® 
makes 
the 
campus 



scene 
with Higgins and the combination is Big On Any Campus. Tailored 
l 

in traditional Yale and I Trim Fit models of 65% ! ."Dacron"* polyester ! -35% combed cotton for wrinkleless neat looks and carefree wear, at Finer Stores everywhere. 

. / 
,/ 






-\···,•. 

.:,.l 
Ji 
\ . \J\ 


\\ '~ 

I 
I 
.i 
1 
l 
I 
i 
'1' 
1 
l 
I 
'1 
l 
! 
" 
,.. .
.. 
;.._ 
= 

A nominating committee of eight Notre Dame seniors, represent­ing all the colleges of the Univer­sity and a Wide geographical range, have selected ten leading 
U.S. citizens for voting Oct, 28 fbr the Patriot oftheYearAward to be given at the annual Wash­ington Day exercises nextFebru­ary. 
One woman, Mrs. Jacqueline 

Kennedy, was nominated along with the nine men who range from a leading Catholic clergyman to a former U.S. president. Also included in the group for 1964 · is Martin Luther King, recently _given the Nobel Peace Pri7.e for 
1964. 
Included in the nominees is en­tertainer -entrepreneur, Walt Disney, continuing a recent tra­dition of nominati.ons in the en­tertainment field which included 

Bob Hope, winner of the awardin 1962. The total list of nominees is: 
R. Sargent Shriver, director of the Peace Corps and the. anti­poverty program~ Dwight David Eisenhower; Dr. Albert Sabin, developer of the oral polio vac­cine: James Webb oftheNational Aeronautics and Space Adminis­tration and Glen Theodore Sea­borg, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Also nominated were Richard Cardinal Cushing, archbishop of Boston; Frank Keppel, U.S. Com­missionor of Education; Martin Luther King; Jacquline Bouvier Kennedy, and Walt Disney; 
· . Voting by the senior class will take place next Wednesday, from 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Rath­skeller Coke Bar, and from 5:30 
p.m. until 7 p.m.intheSouthDin­
.ing Hall, Ray Burke, chairman of the 

be distributed to seniors and toose cards will be traded for a ballot at the voting places, facil­itating voting. 
On campus studentswill receive the. cards in the mail, and off campus seniors maypickuptheir IBM card next:Tuesdayfromll:30 
a.m. to I p.m. at the Rathskellar Coke Bar. 
Burke said a preferential ballot numbered from one to ten will be employed in the voting process. 
The senior nominating commit­tee, picked and headed by Burke, included Kevin Regan from Bos­
. ton: . Mike Read, of N!w Orleans: Mike Willsey, San Francisco, and John Munson, from Texas. All these seniorsarefromtheLfber­al Arts College, 
Also nominating were Phil Haight, from Kansas, and an en­gineering . senior; John Moye, 


Walt Disney 

Senate Budget Meeting Will Consider Handbook 
The Student Senate will hold its annual budget meeting next Mon­day. At this meeting Marty Stamm, Student Affairs Com­missioner, Will present a request for ftmds for the Student Hand­
book, which has been discussed and worked on for years. 
But this year is the first time that the administrationhasoffer­red assistance _for the project. Rev. Charles McCarragher, Vice-President .for Student Af­fairs, saidthatthe University will provide $1500 of the cost of a handbook. Stamm estimates a cost of $7500 to $?800; thus 'The responsibility for getting the handbook out is e~tirely the Sen­
ate' s', according to him. · Although Stamm is required to be the official editor, much of the work is being done by Frank Of­ner, Executive Editor; Paul Raf~ · {erty is the Copy Editor. In ad-' clition a l? -man committee, in­
. eluding students from .all the classes and all the schools, will put out the 90 to 100 page book­let. .. Included on the committee are all those who worked on the pamphlet introducingfreshrnen to Notre Dime at the beginning of the year. Stamm !eels that the success of this pamphletis one of the reasons for the admini­stration's support of the hand­book. 

North Dakota, and a commerce 
student and John Ujeda, a science 
pre-medical senior from Michi­
gan. 
This committee reported their 
choices during the past summer 
to Burke, and the complete list 
of nominations was released by 
Blrke this week. 
The Patriot of the Year for1963 was John Glenn, first American to orbit the earth, doing it in a triple orbit in ·1963, The United States delegate to the United Na­tions, Adlai Stevenson, was named forthe awardinl962, com­ing here to speak to the student body in February, 1963. 
Burke said thisyear'sWashing­ton Day exercise will be held in the middle of February, and as near to February 22 as possible, 
Working with Chairman Burke for the exercise arrangements 
James E. Webb 
Prof Publishes Book 
Rev, A.L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute here, has published a study on Metaphysics in the Curriculum of Studies of the Mediaeval Universities. The book waseditedbytheThomasln­stitute of the University of Co­logne, Germany. 

Jack's 
Gibson -Fender Harmony -Goya 
Guitars 
Special Prices for Students on All 
Guitars and Accessories 327 South Michigan 

FOR VICE PRESIDENT . 

'ClttJlo11se pf Visio11 /Hr. Craft1mt11 in Optiu 
... 
·FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
NOW IN SOUTH Bti"U rHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 5. MICHIGAN ST~ -CEntral 2-1468 
ri,eflo11se of Visiou :r,,t. · 
/;.ain Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -_Chicago 
I ~ co~~2:~!~y· I 1 

1005 E. CORBY 
SOUTH OF A&P 
Page 4. THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana October 21, 1964 




Positions· ·Opened 
LiGHTS ! 

.For.. Junior Weeliend

CAMERA!


Convention-
Di DACT"iON! · Applications are now being ac­e"ral Chairman, which is tradi­
The Young Democrats of Notre Dame attended the second annual convention of the Indiana Colle­giate Federation of YoungDemo­crats last weekend i1_1 Indiana­polis. A newcomer to the Federa­tion, Notre Dame soon developed into one of the powers of the con­vention--electing their Presi­dent, l\fartin Stamm, to the post of Treasurer. 
The convention opened Friday evening, October 9, with a ban­
· quet featuring speeches by last year's officers. The rest of the evening was spent in either one of the many hospitality suites in the Essex House, or in a serie1e of caucuses which lasted most of the night. It was during these caucuses, that.Notre Dame, re­presenting the second largest club in Indiana, wieldedconsider­able influence. 
After a few hours of sleep, the convention reconvened Saturday morning. Firston the agenda was the Committee meetings. Rep­i;-esenting Notre Dame were Bob McDanicle on the Constitutional Committee; Gail Boller, SMC, on Publicity: Tom Conoscenti on Rules andJedKee on Resolutions. Other officers for this year are Da·ve Maxwell, president, from Indiana University, Karen Kirk­patrick, vice-president, ,from Ball .. State, and Terry Pehler, secretary. Pehler is a Notre Dame grad now representing the lndi~na University Law School CllJh. 
Besides having an officer in the Federation, Notre Dame is slated to lead the Northern Region of Indiana, and hopes to obtair.. 100 per. cent representation· of all clubs in Northern Indiana at he next· convention in the· Spring. 
Law Students Face Simulated Cases 
A unique aspectofNotreDame's law curriculum hasreenthe sim­ulated trial-jury course. A re­quirement0for third yearlaw stu­dents, _· the program projects knowledge· gained in the class­room to realistic and practical experience in the courtroom. 
Procedings are held in the U.S. District ,Coun Office of South Bend on designated Saturdays be­ginning in the fall and continuing through March, Judge Swygert, member of the Federal Court-of Appeals in· Chicago, presides ·over the sessions, Four student lawyers are assigned to each par­
Volunteers from Notre Dame, St. l\tlary' s, and South Bend serve as witnesses, clients, and jurists. A typical Saturday in the court­room begins at about 8:30 in the morning and concludes near 6:00. 
Interested · undergraduates of both Notre Dame and St, Mary's who are willing to participate in the sessions as jurists or wit­
.nesses are invited to contact ProCBirrett of the LawDepart­ment. · Prof, Shaffer, also of the Law Department, · stressed that this program is '"recognized as 
one of the bestinthecountry."· 
By AL. SCHULTE 
LOVE WITH . THE PROPER STRANGER is a little drama that takes place in New York. Steve (McCool) McQueen and Nat (fhe Brat) Wood make a mistake for which the penalty is· heavy. The 
·black and white photography isas good ::i 3 the ending is corny; but then the ending and theme song were just tacked onfortheJunior High set. You don't have to face the usual baloney about the glit­ter and goulash of New York be­cause the settingis realistic, The story is treated with tenderness, and I think there's a touch of art here; Washington Hall. 
I'D RATHER BE RICH is a Ross H.mter Production. It has had some very good reviews in spite of the producer's formerreputa-· tion. I understand, however, that its success is due to the talented television tycoon who directs it, Jack Smight. lnthecastareMau­rice Chevalier, Hermione Gin­gold, Andy Williams, Sandra Dee and Robert Goulet the Rouet. Thus it is termed a situation comedy. Colfax · ' 
WI-ERE . LOVE HAS. GONE has gone the wayofmostlevinefilms: rotten, Hot on the tail of his last success, The Carpetbaggers, he has tried to give us some of the same, but it doesn't pan out as well. It is unfortunate that a few big producers can get away with what they do in providing us with such trashy entertainment, But then Susan Hayward has beenina few of this sort re·cently, as has her co-starBette Davis, Granada SO DEARTOMYHEARTisa Walt Disney comeback about a little boy on a little farm in Indiana. Bring yourcryingtowelsandyour lollipops to the State, · 

ticular case,
,--------=--'----, :····················:·:·:·:::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:;:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::.·.·_·_:_:_·_.,.

HONDA 
HondifofMichiana 2531 'L.W.W., Mishawaka 255-23-88 Open Everii_ngs 

DR. N. FIZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 

CONTACT LENSES 
-Inquiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED 

. OPTICAL REPAIRS l to 24-Hour. Ser-,rJ;_.:, 305 s. Michigan AT 7-5477 , . . . _ 
-'VOICE SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR $2 A YEAR FILL OUT COUPON BELOW 
~SEND TO THE VOICE, BOX 11 
Name • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • City · • -· • · · • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •. M State • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••.••. M Check or Cash Only . 

cepted for executive and commit­tee -positions .for, the thirteenth annual Junior Parents.:.sonweek­end, planned for March4, 5 and 6. 
Jmµor class secretary, Tim Gunn,• who·is accepting applica­tions, says that the weekend "will be one of the .most complex and important i:ictivities the. Junior Class will undertake this year. It will ·oo a concrete opportunity to demonstrate .to the parents the admiration· and respect that we have for them -·and, ,more.im­portant, it is·a sharing of the ex­perience of Notre Dame, an ex­perience that they have made pos­sible." 
Aside from the position of Gen­tionally held by the class presi­dent, the _following positions are open for application: Executive Co-Ordinator, and individual chairmen for the President's Dinner, President's Reception, Luncheon and Breakfast, Accom­odations, Tickets, Publicity, AB Reception, Science Reception En­gineering Reception, Engineering Reception, Commerce Reception and ROTC Reception, 
Juniors should send all applica­tions to Gunn, 381DillonHall, The deadline is Tuesday, Oct.-')7. He requests that· applicants include related experience and any ideas .. or proposals . concerning . the weekend. 
·' 

Cameron To Speak-o·n 'Laymah In The Chu~ch'_ 
On Monday, October 26, at· 
8:00 P. r--1. in the ~femorialLib­rary Auditorium, the College of Arts and Letters will last Pro.;. fessor·James M. Cameron, dis­tinguished ·lecturer and author who will speak on "The Role of the Layman in the Church". 
Presently Professor Cmmeron is giving the Terry Series of Lectures at Yale University. One of the more prominent series in the American University system, the lectures are subsequently 
· published in book form, and in the past have boasted ofsuch schol­ars as Jacques Maqritain, the well-known French philosopher, 
Professor of Philosophy at the University of Leeds in Leeds, England and British correspond­ent ·for the Commonwell, Mr. Cameron is an· accomplished writer in both the literary and philosophical fields,· Author of the The Night Battle (1963), a col­lection .of essays on politics, philosophy, and literature, he.has also written a paperback on John Henry Newman, and is now at work onThe Philosophy of New.;. man. 
Later in the year Professor Cameron will lecture at the Uni­versities ofMinnesotaandColor­
. ado, Following those engage­ments, Mr, Cameron will return to the University in the· second semester as a visitingprofessor, a position which he held previous­ly in (1957-58), 
oocco0oc0aoc00c00coc000c0aocQ0000000000000c000000c00c0000e00000CC0c00000cc00000000c00000c000000ccc0000co000000oc
.. .• . . 
s 

s 
The Voice needs 
hard working people. for its sales staff ·See Ken Socha 
in Rm. 302 Dillon or 

Call John O'Hanlon 
, • . • • • • •• _ 
. CE 3 -:-7306 after 6. pm .. 

,]· 
HENRY MANCINI 

& A 40 PIECE ORCHESTRA . 
T E 
A 
-T 

p 
0 

A 
C 

N 
T 
'8 


2 4 

C 
·•· 

·E 
I 

N
5 

T p E M R 
r 
... 

::---. . 
,. 


. October 21, 1964 

THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana PagP. 5 
A FALL WEEI(END WAS 
0 


An Exclamation Pt. For The Students 
y 
. . 

·A Fifth For Snow 

KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS 

Over i00 titles o,i'the·following subjects: 
ANTHROPOLOGY ENGLISH ' MUSIC 
ART : . ·• GOVERNMENT PHILOSOPHY BUSINESS •· HISTORY PSYCHOLOGY 
DRAMA LANGUAGES SCIENCE · 
ECONOMICS LITERATURE SOCIOLOGY 
EDUCATION MATHEMATICS SPEECH 
... 
ENGINEERING STUDY AIDS 
ON DISPLAY AT YOUR BOOKSTORE 
. :JirJl aooignm,,:.l_ .·· 
/offow 'lour courJe:J wit' · ·. 1/i·e-/amott:J ·_. 
· ·Barnes & Noble. Colleg~· Ouiline Seri~s . 





A Ray Handclap For The Defense 
j 
·1 
. J; 

Page 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana 
SMC ''Number-One'' After Football Win 
"We're Number One!" St, Mary's had their chance to use that cheer for themselves Satur­day as the SMC Maulers bested the Barat Bombers in the "Roll­ing Pin Bowl" by a score of {i-~O. 
The only score came on the la st play of the third quarter when sha·ron Loisel swept around right end to score from two yards out, 
The end playwasthemosteffec­tive and most used play of the game, Barat's passing attack, which struck for three touch­downs last year, fell apart when the SMC line put ·on a heavy rush. The two teams approached the game with moreearnestnessthan 
captain, by Irish quarterback John Huarte, 
l-elen Reichert, SMC defensive halfback and student body presi­dent, said of Barat team: "They played rough," That was true of the whole game, It was supposed to beflagfootball, in which a tack­le is made when a defensive play­er pulls out a pink flag tucked in the back of the ball carrier's ber­muda shorts, But until the play­ers got used to playing conditions, it seemedeasierforthemto tack­le the ball carrier before pulling out the flag. 
Most of the spectators at the 
in past years: they trained for Notre Dame -UCLA game stayed weeks fortheirone-game season. for at least the beginning of the When St. Mary's took the field, battle of the beauties, but the wearing green jerseys with their crowd thinned at the end, knee-length blue jeans, theireyes The_ other main feature of the were underlined by grease "to cut Fall Open House was. the Four the field glare.II Barat wore a Seasons concert that night in the mixture of yellow and purple jer-Stepan Center, The crowd there seys. was big enough for the Social 
The trophy to signifyvictory, an Commission to break evenfinan­engraved rolling pin, was pre-cially for the day, according to sented to Jo Billingsley, the SMC commissivner Joe Sotak. 
CA Gets 
A scholarship in Communication Arts at the University ofN:ltre Dame, valued at $4,000 a year, was announced by Prof. Thomas 
J. Stritch, head of the department of communication arts, Nimed in honor of William F. Fox Jr., the grant was made bythe Central flewspaper Foundation oflndiana­polis. 
A reporter of national promine­nee, Mr. Fox, graduate of Notre Dame, Class of ?.7, was perhaps the most famous sports writerin Indiana, and a loyal alumnus of the 
University.  After  his  death in  
1963, the  Central  Newspaper  
Foundation  decided  upon  this  

grant as a true representation of their respect for this man and of his love for Notre Dame. 
In addition to this grant, Com­munication Arts has announced three other scholarships awarded to the University in theirdepart­ment. They are: 
The Robert R. McCormick Charitable Trust, Chicago, Ill. -­a $50,000 grant to endow an undergraduate scholarship in journalism. 

Scholarships 
Four journalism scholarships, valued at up to a $1,000 a year, named for four midwest news­papers: the South.Bend Tribune, the LaFayette. Indiana Journal, and Courier, the Merion (Ind,) Leader-Tribune and Chronicle, and the Chicago's American. 
The Keating Scholarship, worth $350-$750, awarded to freshmen and sophomores planning to ma­jor in the department of Com­munication Arts; given by Mr. and Mrs. Terence P. Keating, 59, of Chicago. · Describing scholarship assi­stance as ' one· of our greatest needs,' Fr. Hesburgh stated that in today's world of tensions and misunderstanding there are 'few areas more important than jour­nalism and communications.' 
Cornerstones for two new build­ings at St, Mary's were blessed and laid in ceremonies marking Founder's Day last Friday, The new dining hall and residence hall are scheduled for completion in early January. 

October 21, 1964 

Series To Spotlight 
Communism 
G.A. Burlage, Assistant Pro­fessor.in the Department of Com­munication Arts, is directingand producing a series of television programs on the subject of com­munism. 
The half-hour telecasts will be taped and offered by educational stations either as a credit course with discussions and readings or a noncredit general education course. 
Notre Dame' stelevision station, WNJU-1V, is filming the series, which is a joint production of the station and the Institute on Com­munism and Constitutional Dem­ocracy of Vanderbilt University. 
The program will include the lectures of· an institute held at Vanderbilt University during the summers of 196? and 1963. Dr. Gerhart Niemayer, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, and Dr. Ewing P. Shahan,. Pro­fessor of Economics and Busi­ness Adminiscration at Vander­bilt, conducted the institute which covered all phases of commu­nism. Ten visiting' professors who assisted with the lectures will also appear on the program. 
Directed primarily toward the training of secondary school teachers, the lecture series will provide a background for those teachers who are asked by their state regents boards to instruct a class in anti-communism. The 
series will offer three credit 
hours at the senior college and 
graduate level. 
The program is supported by the 
Lily Endowment, Inc., the· Relm 
Foundation, and Mrs. Alan M 
Scaife and family, 
WICKERS BARBER SHOP 
FRI. & SAT. 8 A.M. -·s P.M. CLOSED THURSDAYS I017 CAMPEAU STREET AROUND THE CORNER FROM KUBIAC'S PRICED TO FIT THE N D POCKETBOOK 


-.:1 ,i.: 
~., ' ·,j: t ­

-,l; 




-·--I 
-t"'.1. !.. ~\
( 1 





Page77
· October 21, 1964 
istration, 16 in Arts and Letters,

versity because the student's length of time, and are once again academic workwasunacceptable, returning), 58 juniors, 44 sopho-Tne Freshman Yearcontrlbutei:l . motes and 15'advanced freshmen most to this groupingwith36, fol­ma_ke up the total increase,.  
I THE ITALIAN VILLAGE ' ' NOVI MANAGED·SY THE ORIGINAL OWN· ERS. THE-· FINEST · HOMECOOKED · MEALS IN SOUTH BEND. IT'S OUT-OF THE WAY, BUT WELL WORTH T.HE TRIP:. SO WHY NOT GO, ESPECIALLY SINCE SHE IS THE "VOICE" BUSINESS MANA· GERS LANDLADY. 2101 S. Lafayette Blvd.  
HARRY BELAFONTE 2nd Ticket Sales Tomorrow ­6:30 9:00 pm . COKE BAR OF THE RATHSKELLAR ' $4.50 & $3.50 Reserved Seats $3~oo General Admission Reserved seats are goiiig fast -·.. Dori't miss this ticket s-ale!~.  

Navy Men Get Promotions 
.Promotions have come thick and fast to members of the University of Notre DameNROTCunit, com­manded . by Col. R,J, Spritzen USMC. 
Men promoted or selected for promotion since June include the unit Executive Officer, Capt. L,G.D. Wiemer, Jr., USN, whose selection for Captain came dur­
. ing tl;le summer; Sophomore In­structor Lt. Don Ayer, USN, who is expected to pinonhisnewlieu­tenant bars in October; and En­sign J.L. O'Brien, former Chief Quart.ermaster who was selected 
-:" for the Limited Duty Officer pro-
Freshman Dean 
New freshman are rapidly be­coming 'old' freshman. It is the expressed intention ofDean Will­iam Burke to make these 'old' freshmen into ever 'older' soph­omores. Toaccomplishthistask, Dean Burke is further developing his freshman study course. 
It was in the summer of 1963 that a questionnaire was sent to the sphom?res who had just com­
pleted the maugral year ofthene\l budgeting time writing themes Freshman Year ?f Studies. A-and term pa~rs and outlining. mong the questions were two Of 53 freshman academic drop­which ~oncerned the feasibility of outs over the past two years, 47 a special study course for fresh-of these were interviewed re­man .on a voluntary basis. Over. garding the causes of their fall­75% of the replies to there ques-ure. 'Practically everyone noted tions favored some such course. poor study habits.' Thus, though 
Dean Burke_ state that this year's offering no substitute for individ­F reshman Orientation placed ual initiative and motivation the particular emphasis on 'get~ng . special study course will, Dean off to a good st_art,andde~elop~ng Burke hopes, help to •cut down good study habits •. InconJunct1on freshmen college mortality' with this _ideal the proposed study • 
144 Students Leave 
During .1963~64 Year. 
lowed by 21 in Business Admin­144 students withdrew .from 
·Notre Dame during the 1963-64 .15 in engineering and 3 in science, school year, according to r~cords The mean academic· average forkept by the Office of Academic af­all undergraduates is 2,557,fairs. · This year's enrollment figures 76 ofthese dropoutsWerevolun­were increased with students. ·tary, 47 were for reasons of transferring from other·collegeshealth, 17 for discipline, 3 be­d 
cause. of death and 1 because of an universities to N,D, and by 
return students ( students whofinancial pressure. 
. · 1 1 d atNotre

In a separate category, 91 stu­were previous yenrol e
Dame but dropped out 
dents were dismissed by the Uni­
. gram in Mayandwaspromotedon the first of October this year. 
Enlisted members of the staff earning promotions were J.J. Blank, Jr., to First Sergeant, USMC, in July, 1964; and I-!P. Keath, Jr., selected for Chief Storekeeper, USN His promo­tion is effective November 16, 1964. 
There are eight other officers and enlisted personnel on the staff, but none were elegible for promotion. However, Col. Sprit­zen expressed his satisfaction with the 100% selection record es­tablished, stating, 'You can't do better than 100%.' 
Discusses Study 
program has become a reality. 
Almost ?00freshmanvolunteer­ed for the program. With Dean Burke and Prof. WaddickofTest­ing and Guidance as instructors, 55 students attended the class 
which met at 5:00 p.m. after a $5,00 entrance fee. 
Consisting of five sessions, the course concentrates on the devel­opement of good study habits, 
for any ;a____________
111111._ 

The White Horse Cellar' toasts· Miss 
· :Janet Wimmer; a· gracious · southern belle visiting the Notre Dame Campus · this Homecoming weekend from Memphis, 
Tennessee. 
25,000 EUROPEAN JOBS 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg-25,000 jobs in Europe are available to students desiring to spend a summer abroa:d but could not otherwise afford it. l\lonthly wages range to $300 and jobs in­clude resort, office, child care, fac­tory, farm and shipboard work.. $250 ·travel grants will be given to the first 5000 applicants. Job and travel grant applications and full details are available in a 36­page illustrated booklet which students may obtain by sending $2 (for the booklet and airmail · postage) to Dept. 0, American Student Information Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxem­
bourg. · 
Commission Urges. 
International Interest 
The International Commission has an expanded program planned for this year in ordertogenerate interest among the student body in national and international af­fairs. 
In order to do this, Commission head Jed Kee aims to develop a greater international atmosphere on campus, to work with the for­eign students, especially fresh­men, hoping to make them feel somewhat at home: and to encour­age student travel and study a­broad,' 
As of now, Doctor Kertesz of the Committee on International Re-, 
lations and the International Commission itself are directing publicity and planning a series of lectu'res and discussions of gen­eral interest. 
The Commission is working in conjunction with the International Students Organization to make the campus a place where inter:.. national ideas can be discussed and where Americans can meet people from other countries. 
Upcoming activities are an Election-Eve Party onNovember I where the campaign issues will be discussed, andaninternational Banquet on November 7. 
Much of the year's activity, how­ever, will point to the annual In­
. ternational Forum to be held at Notre Dame on April 2-4, The Forum will be directed jointly by CILA, the National Student Or­ganization and the Pan-American. Club, . 
Senate Debate 
A program of discussions 'on
national and international issues 
will-begin at next Monday's stu­dent Senate meeting. . . .
W
orking· with Student Govern­
·ment President John Gearen, Jed Kee will head a sub-committee of the Policy Commission that con­sists of Al Valkanaar ·and Bob 
Stewa'rt. Valkanaar and Stewart 
· 
will present the liberal 'and the 
· · · 
conservative view points, re­
· 
spectively_, in statementsopening· an hour debate on a topic intro­
duced at the previous ·senate 
meeting. 

The long and skinny arm of a crane stretches out over the skeletal patterns of forms being put up for the new convent behind the Administration building. 
Work is reported as "going smoothly." 
''' ,, ' ,,., '' ,' . ----=-~~---·· r------­
11,000,000 Pledged 
to Challenge II 
· $ll,161,597 In Gifts And Pledges Jingling in the Coffers of the Challenge II Program. This fig­ure represents 55,8% of its goal of $20 million. 
Included in this $11 millionis$3, 720,532 representing the earned portion of the Ford Foundation's matching grant, The FordFoun­dation grant matches $lforevery $7 raisedbyNotreDame'salumni and friends. 
To qualify for the total matching 
grant of $E million Notre Dame 'Challenge II is designated forthe must raise $ 17 million in dona-construction of two additional re­
'd hall
tions' and. non-governmental Sl ence ' s to provide' housing 
grants by June 30, 196 • • . for .appI'.Oximately 800 under-While approximately· two:..thirds graduates._now forced to live off-. of Challenge I's programwa'sde-·.campus. . , . voted to new buildings, f0%·of As a result ofitsChallengelef-Challenge II' s funds are desig-forts when 80% ·of the alumni con-_ nated for what Fr. Hesburghcalls tributed, Notre Dame received 'people and programs'. the American Alumni Council's 
. $E,500,000 is to beusedforfac-G_rand Award of $5,000, ulty development and new aca-1-----m11111111111=m.,.m::11111t;J1 
demic programs. The new aca­demic include the establishment of. an experimental psychology 
department, Latin American and African area studies, and new
• 

programs in anthropology, de­
11111______aa____ 
. ON COLUMBIA RECORDS 
STEPAN CENTER NOV. 14· _ 
mography, and geography. 
The $5,500,000 earmarked for student aid will be used for in­creased scholarships and lowin­terest loans, a program long overdue here at Notre Dame To replace the 66yearoldfield­ho·use, $ 5, million is to be used t1:> erect the newtwin-domedAth­letic aildConvocationCentertobe locatt?d just east of the stadium with a seating capacity of lo, 500. 'The remaining $3 million of 
. Chicago Club Presents *Shane*. 
~o~ig~t ~ct. _21 _, _Eng. A~d. 7pm and 9pm 

IN CONCERT 
j ·.I 


THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana October 21, 1964 
STATISTICS 
U.C,L,A, N,D, 

.. 
First downs 11 .?6 Yards rushing 66 239 Yards passing 158 ?09 Passes Attempted n 11 Completed 11 IO Intercepted by 3 l Punts 6 '} Average 38 ?9 Fumbles lost 5 1 Yards penalized 77 45 

Pete Andreotti grinds out five yards, but is unable_ to break loose Alan Page separates the ball from lJ.C. L.A. quarterback Larry from U.C.L.A. de/enders (Voice Photo by Bjll McC.,uire. Zeno. (Voi'ce Photo by Bill McGuire.) 
IRISH GO A'SCALPING 
Place Unbeaten String on Line Irish Slam Door 
This Saturday John Ralston It was this time last year, that ing their first winning season J. brings his Stanford Ind1ans into the Irish, after beating a top­since 1958. .Notre Dame Stadium. Despite ranked Southern Car team 17-14 With a national TV audience 
On Uclans 24-0 
Stanfords record of two wins and and then walloping UCLA 27-12, looking on, the underdog Indians On two successive· Saturdays, Irish put the game away in the three defeats, there should be nc went up against Stanford. Stan­whipped the Irish ?4-14. After the U,C,L.A. Bruins have had third quarter, reason for a let-down on the part . ford was in the midst of a poor this set-back the Irish never re­weather problems. After a 39-0 On the initial play from scrim­of the Irish. season. while the Irishwereeye-gained their drive, finishing out beating at Syracuse, they com-mage Tom Longo recovered a
the season with three more de­

plained of the snow. Last Satur-Zeno fumble on the U.C.L.A. 16
feats, The embarassmentbefore 

day despite a 76 degree temper-·yard line. Two plays later,
the national TV audience and the 

New Look~ 011 Basl{ethall 
ature and blue skiesinSouth Bend H.!arte threw a strike to Snow to
curtailment of hopes for a win-

Irish Thunder upset them. Next make it 18-0. A few minutes With a new coach and a brand O'Neill and Bob Donaphin, and ning season are not easy to for­they will be talking of the little afterwards Alan Page crashed 
new look, the Irlsh basketballers sophs John B!rnardi, Bob Bent-get. 
green leprechatm they saw at into Zeno who again let go of the began practice for the 1954-65 ley, Jim Monohan, andJoe Vales, Much of the Indians attack Notre Dame Stadium. · ball, This time itwasPaulCosta .season last week, Seven return­The Irish schedule, which opens is built around halfbacks Dick With or without leprechauns recovering on the Bruin 15, Nicking monogram winners and a on· December 1st against Lewis Ragsdale and RayHandley. Hand­Irish Thunder, or green beer.the Eddy then zoomed for seven challenging schedULe should be College, include two eastern ley is currently among the na­Notre Dame Defen9? heldU,C, yards, and Joe Farrell bounced the necessary ingredients _to . swings-one toJamaica, NewYork tions top rushing leaders, Rags­L.A. scoreless. Bruin quarter-over from the one for a 24:...0 
· make this season a thriller. to play St. Johns on Dec, 19 and dale, in addition to his running back Larry Zeno was forced to Irish lead. This ended the day'sCoach John Dee, former Irish the other to Madison Square Gar-and catching chores, can also fumble four times in the game scoring, and finished off theplayer and later assistant coach, den for a Feb. 24 engagement with pass from his halfback slot; he and his elusive halfback Cornell "dirty old Bruins." 
returns to his alma mater after New York University, also handles the punting, Stanford Champion fumbled once. Amidst Once again JimCarrollandbud­successful coaching tenures with The team will also make three would prefer to run against the the action, Tony Carey· added a dies dared an opposing offense to the University of Alabama, the appearances in Chicago Stadium Irish, but if they have to, the Ind­fifth star to his helmet, andcame move the ball, and once again the Denver Truckers of the National against Bradley on Dec. 31, Illi-ian quaterbacks Dick Berg and · close to a few more. enemy found they could not, The Industrial League, and the Kan­nots on Jan. 30, and Duke on Feb. Dave LeWis will try to see what On the offensive side, there was Notre Dame attack kept rolling sas City Steers of the now dis­20, besides taking their annual they can do against thelrishpass some superb running Irish backs along, and the· Irish took their banded American Basketball Christinas trip·to Louisville for defense. End Guy Rousaville, who Farrell, Wolski, and Eddy to fourth straight, Not since 1957 
League. an encounter with the Kentucky was credited with nine tackles in balance Huarte' s passing. Jack has a Notre Dame squad won their Dee brings with him a new en­'Wildcats' on Dec. ?9. last years game, and linebacker Snow caught his fifth touchdown -first four games. They went 7-3 thusiasm for Irish basketball. So ------•--•-• Jack Chapplereturntobolsterthe 
pass of the season-as many six that year, but in 1964 lrishterri­
Johnny Dee, new head basketball Jndian defense, far this means the institution of· 
pointers as were scoredby airall tory is "never-never land" for 
customs at the· games and coach at the University of Notre This is.the fourth meeting bet­
new last season. opposing offenses, Stanford will
brand new uniforms. He also Dame, has a string of 16 straight ween Stanford and Notre Dame; Following afamiliar pattern, the be next test
plans to initiate a new offense college victories going as he the Irish have won two, whilelos­the to this out. employing a basic single pivot starts his first year at Notre ing one. The first encounterwas with an emphasis on the fast · Dame. The last time one of his in the 1975 Rose Bowl. The Irish 
Defense Impresses Ara 
teams tasted defeat? December then under Knute Rockne werebreak. 
When Ara was asked if he was
reading the list of returningvet­28, 1956, in the SugarBowlTour-National Champions that season. in a close game." -Parseghian
pleased with the overall perform­
ney at New Orleans. Who d!a the With the four horsemen in the was also displeased with the play erans is the phenomenal Larry . ance of the team he said, "The
Sheffield, 6-l senior guard from damage? TheUniversityofNotre backfield the Irish romped to a of some of his alternates. 
offensive line made a few mis­
Troy, New York. Sheffield, the · Dame, 86-80. 27-lO Bowl victory. Ara was naturally impressed
takes. These r:enalties will hurt with the playofhisclefensiveunit.
classiest ball player to play at . 

· Notre Dame in the years, ledthe H • · T w · Mo h• "It was our first official shutout. 
team in scoringlastyearwith 535 

a:rr1ers . op . ester~ IC 1gan ~!std::~:g:!~s~/:i:i:t0;c:;,
points in 74 games for a-22,2av­_ only Air Force score came on an 
erage; and also set a single game Lead by Bill Clark the -Irish Rich Fennelly struggled to grab 'It felt as if we weregrosslyout interception."
Notre Dame scoring mark when Cross-Country team nosed out a · 5th and 6th places, respectively, of shape,' remarked Walsh when/ Asked if he consideredU,C,L,A,he hit the nets for 47 points inan spirited Western Michigan squad Sophomore Ebb Walsh, finding it questioned· about the conditions, the strongest team we played.
overtime loss to Detroit. ?8-29 here last Friday• difficult to bear the. lack of The Irish also suffered from 'Ara repUed "Coach Barnes has .Dee also has the number two, Clark's record breaking Ume of oxygen, paced 12th, while Dick lack of depth due to the absence done a lot with what he has.
three, and four scorers· and the 19:19 put him· seventy yards ahead . Reamer closed out the Irish scor-of Senior Bill Welch and Jtlllior Asked what team was the best,two topreboundersbackfromlast. of the field at the end of the four ing with a 13th place finish. Ed Dean, who missed the tripand Ara hesitated only slightly, Afteryear's squad which finished with miles. · .
' The slower times · (by two the invitational meet,. the delay, he said "Purdue,"
adisappointing 10 ~ 14 mark. Ron Mike Coffey was next for the
j. minutes per man) were attributed In the ~reshman ~hree milecon-The spotlight next turned to
,-Reed, 6-5 forward, brings a 20,0 -·llish, finishing · a strong third. 
j to the thin air at Colorado . test Fnday, N.D, s Ken Howard, quarterbacks and receivers. 
average with 360 points in ·1s Bob Walsh · took sixth, Larry
l Spring's, to which the Irish har-left 50 runners far behind. He is Commenting on the. Bruin 
games, and a 17.7 rebound mark Dirnberger seventh and Rich · a top prospect.by Coach Larry he
·riers could not Immediately ad-ra~ed quarterback, Zeno,
into his final year. Walt Sahm, Fennely grabbed, eleventh, 

just. Wilson. stated, 'Zeno is a great com­senior forward-center, and co~. matched against Western' s posi-· petitor, He has great runningcaptain of this year's team, was tions of :?,4,5,8,10, Thelrishjust ability, but ourboys overpowered sidelined for part of the 63 -.l4 edged out a one point victory. 
him." · rt
season. but came on strong at fhe .Coach Alec Wilson ,· proud and "Why did Huarte pass 10 times·end to finish with 313 points, 'a happy,' said, 'You could have given on first down?'' When Parseghian17.4 average, and a 17.5 rebound up because theAirForcebeatyou was questioned if there was any
mark; JayMiller,.6-4 seniorfor-so badly, but you didn't.' ward and the otherco-captain, hit -· particular reason for this, he· stated, "We expected U,C,L.A, 
for ?62 pointsandanll,4average. jusi: two weeKs ago Western 
to blitz a lot.'' Huarte completed. Other monogram. winners re-Michigan clobbered the Falcons, 8 out of 10 first down passes for·.

turning are seniors Larry Jese-and then the Irish were soundly . witz, .· 6-8 forward-center, Pat beaten ?3-36 in Denver. · 173 yards, including five to Jack 
Snow for 114 yards.

Dudgeon , 6-'2· guard, and junior A week earlier, AirForce'sJim When asked to compare Snow to Bucky McGann 6-3 guard. ,!:Ill Murphy, .4th in the 5000 meter . 
Paul Flatley, Parseghian ans-• .. · Kraft, who lettered .last year as race (approximately 3,1 miles) at wered: "Flatley was outstanding·a sophomore, did not return to the final Olympic trials, won the with me at Northwestern and he. school. · --4 mile contest inthe time of ?1:16. 
has a great pair ofhands. Snow,.
-Dee's starting five will probably Notre Dame'scaptain, Bill Clark, · has more speed, andisbiggerandcome from these eight returnees, was second in ?l:36, better than stronger than Flatley."
however, additional help should two minutes off this week's time, · 
.:.

"Our main concern right now iscome from· senior Jim Affeldt, · The Academy copped the next 
· On their way to a close 28-29 · victory over Westem Michigan, Stanford,,, Ara Parseghian snap­
Juniors Tom Bornhorst, Kevin two places, while Mike Coffey and Irish harriers bound .across the Burke Memorial Gp!/ Course. The meet took pla·ce Friday afternoon. ped when asked about a bowl bid. 
Foto News Lith~ -Ramarr Publishing; Elkhart, Indiana · 








