2,500 Hear Miller Call StU.dents Into Politics 
William E. Miller, 1935 Notre established in all areas will our "The extmt to which the de:. Dame graduate, and 196·'. Repub­nation continue to grow, cisions will reflect your aspira­lican vice-presidential nominee, Heurged studentsto enter poli­tions and ideasdepends on the ex­returned to his almater last Sat­tics, "There will alwaysbepeo­tent to which you participate 1n · urday. The theme of his speech ple who want to runfor public off­the politics of America withinthe delivered from the steps ofSorin ice. There will always be people framework of the two-party sys­Hall was a call to the students to who want the power of public off­tem,'' become active in politics. ice, whether you do anything ab­· Miller several times referred 
A crowd of around ?,500 stu­out it or whether you don't, to the growth of the federal gov­dents, supplemented by older "There will be decisions made ernment and repeated a remark spectatorswho are on campusfor in Washington which will deter­he used several times previously the Purduegame, heard Rep. Mill, mine how much you can keep of in the campaign "Any government er's address. Hetold the studrnts the money y<lu earn. whether you that is big enough to give you all "I do hope in the years ahead 1n do anything about it or whether you want is big enough to take C!V­onewayor another you participate ery thing you've got.''
you don't. in the elective process ofAmeri­"There will be dc,cislons made "No government can give you ca within the framework of the in Washington which will deter­anything which it hasn't already 
two-party system, Only through mine whether you or your child­taken away from you." 
the two party system havewebe­ren will be ·called into military Miller was introduced by Rev. come the strongest nation in the Theodore H,sburgh, C,S,C,, who
Stephanie and .Hon, William Miller stand before the crowd of service, whether you do anything 
world" and through this system . about it or whether you don't.'' had hosted him at a luncheon in
Saturday. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire) 
the Morris Inn and at the Purdue 
•Gearen Guest -------------------------THE game, Fr. Hesburgh said that 
whether the students agreed with Miller's political philosophy or not they should regard him as anOf Johnson 
example of a Notre Dame man moving to the top of his field. 
Student Body President John While at Notre Dame asan un-Gearen represented Notre Dame /E DA BAJE dergraduate, Miller was chair-as guest of President Lyndon B. 0 Jll NOTB SP J..V.Jll. man of both theSophomoreCotil-J ohnson this past Saturday at the ----------------------------------------lion and Junior Prom. White House. I d' October 7, 1964 After his graduation, he stud-
The President's invitation was Volume 3", Number 2 Notre Dame, n Iana fed law at Union University Law sent to Fr. Hesburgh, who picked School. He entered the service 
Gearen ·as Notre Dame's repre-. H··.um_P.·h.·r.. ey_ A.t ..Stepan_ during World War II, .and wars.
sentative. The university flew commissioned a first lieutenant Gearen to Washington, where he in 1915, He served in the Judge· joined some ?50 other· student Advocate General's war-crimes 
leaders from colleges and u-section, and wasassistantprose-
F L B J R II 
niversities all over the nation. 0 r . a y cutor at the Nuernberg trials. The group gathered at 5:00 pm O • • . After his discharge from ser­. Saturday afternoon 1n the White vice, he was elected district att-House, tohearaddressesbythree Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, banners and signs, supporting The Young Democrats will soon omey of Niagra County, New cabinet members. Secretary of Senator from Minnesota andDem-Humphrey. . act again as official host on Oct-York, and has been a member of 
di d h · i f ... e pre ober 19, this time to Indiana's
State Dean Rusk scusse t e ocratic nom nee or v ,c --De i d the u.s. House of Representatives problems of the State Deptart-sident, will deliver a major pol-Entertainment for the program Senator Vance Hartke. 5 gne from that collll!y for seventerms ment; Secretary of Defense Ro-icital address on Foreign policy will be provided by the Phoenix mainly for the benefit of club beginning in.1950• 
bert McNamara breifed the stu-in a program beginning at 7:15 Singers, a nationally known folk-members, will include an off-He was Republican National dents on America's nuclear de-Saturday night in the StepanCen-singing group, who will perform . campus banquet a~d ~n a_dd_res~brChairman ·from -1961 until this 
"__.terrent forces;. ~nd.Secretary.of. ter. •·• 1ntermittantly throughout the eve;;-· Senator Hartke i~ eitner ther:.aw summer: · . Cone. on a e 3
:_ · . · La.bor Willard Wirtz talked on ning, They appeared on campus or the Engineering Auditorium. E V \P g, • unemployment, automation, an~ Humphrey will enter the h all at__ last year at a Hootenanny spon-U LJ ~ '0 ; \ L:__ , t" the so-called population explos..: 8:301n a procession ledbythelet, sored by the St. Mary's Social ' \ ion. . termen, a band composed ofNot-Commission. 
President Johnson tqen arr1_ved re Dame students. Rep. Jolm from ,his press conference. to Brademas, who is runningfor re..; Stamm hoped to provide quite an speak. His remarks, both pre-election 1n this district, will in­active year for the Young Demo­pared and off.;.the-cuff, were gen-troduce Hunphrey. The proceed­crats on campus. He sketched erally non-partisan. ings will be televised from 8:30 · his plans. for the coming year, 
Congratulating the students until 9:00 as a paid political tele­stressing his firm conviction that on their dedication, he called cast on wsbt-tV of South Bend. the path to success for the club them the "VolunteerGeneration'' lies in spreading the workload as 
and he urged them to participate . evenly as possible among. the 
The Lettermen will play from in government, He then an­the time thedoors open at7:15 un­membership. 
nounced. the formation of the til Humphrey's entrance. 

In the past, he feels, to much
White House Fellows program, 

was done by the executive board
to give young men and women The YoungDemocratsorganiza­

of the club, thus fostering dis­
first-hand experience in national tion on campus is acting as host 

interest among the membership.
affairs. for the rally, and is sponsoring 

While the YD' s is a smalleror-
Following the President's along with Rep. Brademas. Co­

ganization than the Young Repub­
speech, the students were hon­sponsors include several groups 

licans, Stamm feels he'll have no 
ored at a White House dinner. in South Bend. MartyStamm, YD 

trouble finding workers, as a re ­
Later in the evening, they were president, says that 7,000tickets 

sult of the membership drive con­
entertained by Bob Newhart, the will be distributed toNotreDame 

ducted by Bill Scanlon and Tom
Chad Mitchell Trio, and the Stan and St. Mary's students. The on­
Cognoscenti.
Getz Quartet, Lynda Johnson ly reserved section will be for Libby a.nd Mary Karen Miller preceded their fa. 

acted as hostess for the dinner 

members· of the Young Demo­ther to South Bend. Here Mary Karen chats 
and entertainment. ·crats; they will be equipped with about the upcoming Purdue game with some attracted students, from left, Rich Franco, Bill Boyle and Dan Manion. (Voice Photo by Bill 
McGuire)

Justice Goldberg Shriver to Discuss Peace Corps, Poverty
At Moot Court 

R. Sargent Shriver, Director of Notre Dame hasbeencloselyid­the Peace Corps and the office of entified with the PeaceCorps sin­Economic Opportunity will speak ce its beginning. The first proP­Supreme Court Justice Arthur Schook, are Henry J. Boital, Friday night at 8:00 p,m. in the osal for a project came from Rev.
J. Golclberg·and twootherfederal Brooklyn, N.Y., a graduate of St, Stepan Center, Admission will Theodore MHesburgh, C,S,Candjurists will preside at the final John's University; Kevin Carey, be free. He will discuss the Pe­that proposal resultedin tre esta­round of the Notre Dame Law Yakima, Washington, a Gonzaga Elections ace Corps and the war on pover­blishment of a project particlpat.:.

School's annual MootCourtCom­University graduate; James J. 

ty. ing with the Institute of RualEdu­potition Saturday. The event, Leonard, Jr., Prairie Village, 
Elections for Hall Senators,Hall 
cation in Chile. Prof, Langfordwhich is open to the public, will Kansas, who did his tindergrad:1-. 
Presidents and Hall Secretary­Shriver was invited to speak at
be held in the LibraryAuditorium ate work at BrownUniversity; and .accompanied that project from 
Treasurers will be held Tuesday Notre Dame.by Prof. WalterLan­1961 to 1963, along with eightvol­
at 7:15 p.m. · JohnH, Martin, Sacramento,Cal­Oct. 20. Nominations for there gford of the department of modern unteers from Notre Dame,Sharing the bench with Justice ifornia, who graduatedfromNotre offices will be held from Fri. Oct, languages. Prof, Langford isthe During the summer of 1963 andGoldberg will beJudge Carl rvrc­Dame 1n 1959. 

9 until Fri, Oct. 16. The official campus contact for the Peace Co­1964 Notre Dame served as theGowan of the U.S. Court of AP-
nomination form with 50 signature rps.
. mbi The case to be argued concerns training site for two othergroups · 
peals for theDistrict of Colu a an employer's right to terminate of the proper electorate mustbe Shriver has been head of the Pe­preparing for work in Chile. 
Circuit, and Judge William J. his business during a laboi-di.S-:. remrned to the Blue Circle office . ace Corps since its fotmding In discussing Shriver's Visit 
Campbell of the U, S, District pute. The law srudwts will pre­in the basement of the Student in 1961; · He was to visit Notre 
Prof. Langford said, •~He will be 
Court for theNorthemDistrict of sent their arguments as if they · Center duringthatperiod, Forms Dame last February, but his!irst 
able to give the students asauth­
Illinois. . · were appearing in the U. S, Su-will be available at the sameloca-child was born the day of the sch­oritive a picrure •of the Peace Co-.. The student finalists, all in thei1 preme Court. tion from 6:30 to 7:30 each even-eduled talk, and so he had to can-rps and the war on poverty as _third year 1n theNotreDameLaw · · ing t?tat week. eel. anyone can,", 



-~ 

...,--•------------.-______.,_,.________ -----· -···~----.. -----_ -.--•• --. -·--~----------------·-------------------.---...... -------··-. ··----····--· -.~-------r--------··· 

Page 2 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Indiana October 7, 1964 
~..::::::::e;,, 
Speaker Policy A Gag Rule 

Every recognized club or organiza­tion on · this campus should have the right to sponsor speakers of their choice, as long as they are willing to assume complete responsibility for the speech, and all arrangements. This is not an_ area that the senate should use to mere­ly "inci:ease student responsibility!' Student. responsibiliiy in this case is adequately represented by the sponsor­ing organization, also containing stu• dents. 
If an individual group is making a choice considered actually detrimental to the name of Notre Dame let it face campus disfavor and opinion. Let the club remain open to defend its choice to the student body at large through any me­dium existing.· What right has the se• nate to in effect act in secrecy on a pro­posed speaker? As the new policy now stands: no publicity concerning the speaker•s appearance shall be permitted prior to the first approval." In other words the elected body assumes the right to act without the knowledge of its constituency, the club can't make its hopes available. to campus opinion1andall existing news media are hog-tied in their right to let the campus know what is going on in the senate committee cham• hers, should it chose to. Also the club is hindered by the possibility that a speaker they have linedup will be for­bidden, not ~i-the university adminis­trators, but by fellow students. 
This new policy is based on an excep­tional and probably rare example, Gover~ nor Wallace ofAlabama. In his case the 
_ditio·n of his home state made it blatent­ly obvious that he actually stood for someth1ing differc-nt. If most other men even politicians, said, what Wallace did it would be permissible, and the campus should have the opportunity to that ex­posure. But that entails a big and tricky ulf." What happens if this crucial fine line isn't understood by the committee judging speakers, though1 and truly con­troversial positions are kept from being heard on our campus? 
In addition to -these basic issues, there are the real questions of why the senate, and not the sp msoring club, club, should have the right to set admis­sion fees. And, that students could be turned away from speeches because their tie was forgotten in their room is in most cases absurd. It is now at least possible. 
The new policy is unneeded. It was passed when the Senate wasn't even at 

foll strength as hall senators have yet 1-------------------------­
-to be elected. It only serves to turn a­way speakers that even the Administra­tion would approve since the Adm1inistra· tion still remains the ultimate say, Sen­ate or no. It was passed so early in the year that Senate members. couldn't possi­bly have had enough time to measure student opinion. This paper didn't even get a chance to print it as a proposal this year. 
It was a hasty decision, ill-considered., The senate prides itself on correcting hasty, passed -down decisions. It should now be the measure of its own pride. 

-university's·-µame··-was · wrongly ~used;···-­-·:  ·--•.-­--­ -· ----··· ---·-­ 
but that was because he was gaining an audience -and publicity here by saying  B.S.J..  

one thing, whf:n the politics and the con-

No Unexcused Absences 

Are you going to vote? If you plan 
to, aiid you c:~rtainly should be plan­
ning to -if you are eligible, now is the 
time to make sure you will be able to. 
The majority of N.D. students who can 
vote will be doing so for the first time, 
and they will be away from home, which 
means getting an absentee ballot. 
-Many have already_ taken care of this 
and have registered in their home towns 
for absentee ballots. They are all set 
for now. Others probably forgot, or -didn't get a chance for one reason or another. They aren't set. ­You can still write for an applica­tion for an absentee ballot. Write your 
Usually the voter· has to have his ballot notarized before mailing. For your convenience, The Voice made arrangements with both the dem­ocratic and • Republican headquarters -_for representatives to come to the cam­pus to notarize the absentee ballots for 
free and send them to your home state. Watch for an announcement of a defi­nite time and place to bring the ballots. ­
In most states the ballots must•ar­rive at the registrar or election board in time for delivery to the proper poll­
.ing place before the polls close on elec tion day. Youfnation needs your opinion, make 

Home town or County Regis_trar request-_ _sure you're not the absent one. ing one. When it comes, fill it out and / 
B.S.J.

return it, and you will be eligible to re­ceive the official absentee ballot from your state when they are sent out. _ 

Avenue For Dialogu~ Opens ­

It nearly goes without saying that peo-standings between all three factions. pie can"t get along if they don't under-_The burden rests on all shoulders though­stand others' viewpoints. This is just . · as heavily on the student as on the ad~ 
as true· of tw.o college roomates stuffed into a do~ble-bunked room as -it is of the Negro and .the White in th1is couhtry or the Russian and the American in the com­munity of nations. 
lt is also true of the three divisions on this campus--the srndent body, the admin­istration, __ and ihe faculty. -If one group doesn't understand the headaches and 
_problems of the others, or in the same 
vein, if one group-doesn't give a chance to the others to understand its decisions, -­there will be -friction-often needless fric• 
Asstudents we encourage and look _for this dialogue, this inter~lay of under:. 
ministrator ot the professor--to under­stand and· to be understood through a con­tinuing dialogue. 
Once again this year the Voice offers to play its part in this exchange--opening our editorial· columns at any time to one outside editorial a .week (not more than 
500 .words) from any administration or f,.aeulty representative who wants to make a position clear. 

Let it not be said that no avenue for conversation and -dialogue on a wide plane exists. 
When it's wanted, it does•••on this page. 
., 

GoolJ ! 

• J\ NEW ARA 
Events Calendar 
Oct. 7 Oct. 9 
6:00 p.m. New Jersey l?:00 to 3:30 p,m. Home-Club Banquet; Sunny coming refunds; Coke Bar, ­Italy LaFornme 
6:30 to 9:30 p.m. Home-6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Mavle: coming Winners claim B,ys' 1'1ght Out, sponsor-their bids: Fiesta Lnge, ed by lbckey CltJb; En-LaFortune g!neering Auditorium 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Mill-Oct 10 tary Ball Ticket Sales; ?:00 and 8:30 p.m. Movie: Coke Bir, LaFortune Henry V, sponsored by 
7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Mo-Student-Faculty Film So-
Vie: Bell, Book and clety: Englneering·Audi-Candle, sponsored by torium Oct, II 
7:30 p,m. and 9:30 p,m. Mo-Vie: Advise and Consent, spon.: sored by Political Science Cltib; Engineering Auditorium · 
Oct, 13 
Ticket Sales, Fall Open House Four Seasons Dance: Dining Halls 
3:00 p,m. Banquet, Sponsored 
by Detroit Club, ticket purchase required tonight; Gulsseppe' s, 
8:00 p.m. Lecture, by Peace Corps Representative; SMC 

American Institue o!--~---..7:30 to 7:00-p..m. ... Smoker,--Clubhouse-·__ · · ,_-.:-~-----~~ Chemical Engineering: sponsored by Sophomore Engineering Auditorium Class: Bombshelter 
Oct. 8 3:00 to midnight. Young 
10:30 a.m. Concert. Miss Democrats &rbecue: Ste­Consuela Lopez. South _ pan Center American lyric' soprano, 3:30 p,m, Football, Notre sponsored by music de-Dame vs. Air Force Big partment: Library Audi-Screen TV: Fieldhouse 
torium 7:45 p.m. Moot Court Fl­
8:30 to 9:00 p.m. lbme-nals; Library Auditorium coming 11 winners claim their bids (If necessary) Oct, 11 
Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune 2:00 p,m, and 8:00 p,m. Mo-Oct, 9 vie: Henry V, sponsored by Student Trip Student-Faculty Film Society; 
10:30 a.m. Concert !Miss SMC L!nle Theatre ­Consuela Lopez South 8:00 p,m, Talk by R. Sargent American lyric soprano, Shriver, Director o! the Peace 
sponsored by music de-Corps and Office o! Economic partment: Library Audi-Opportunity, ,Admission free. torium Stepan Center 
THE 


OF NOTICE /IAMB. 
Publishe-d weekly during the academic year by students of the University of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaForture Student Center; Post Office Box· l • 
Board of Review • :. • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • Rev. Daniel O'Neil, c.s.c., John Gearen 
Editor: Barry Johanson 
AUOciate Editor, ••• • ••••••••••••·• ••••••••••••••••••• • • • • ••• • Grover· Nix Editpri&l Staff1 .....~ ............ .'.u Torn Andersen.•Diclt Ritter;' Jerry Poc:kar News Editor, , • • • , • • • • • ••• • • • • • • • , • ••••••• , •••••••••,• • • • •• • John Buckley Assistant News Editors •••• , •••• , .. • ••••• ,., • .......a....... Bob Lumpkins 
New~ Stnff: • . John B~rne, . ~rl Gu¥="tin,. Charles· Kracklauer! Ken \Krivicka._s, Terry Murphy, Dan Murr~y., Stever Pepe, Jack. Quine,-Bob Scheuble, Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick Veit and Alana IICGrat>tan 
Sports F.ditors: • ....~..................... Dave Condon, Gei::oge Krusqewski Sports Staff, •.••••••••• , • • • • • .. • • Jim Hemphill, Vince Kaval, Mike Read, D"'-_n. ~erguson, Ed Nugetz and Mike_ Granger Business Hanagen , ............................·•••••••••••• · John 0 1 Hanlon Adve'rt.is-ing Mana"geri Ken Socha Advertising salesmen, , ................·... ,.. Geroge Cregg.-and Roger aarron copy Editorllt ~ ••••• "' ....... • , ................... ·• 8111 Metz, 'Lou Bartoshesky 
Layout Editor, ....................... .,;. .......................;. ......... 1)(.-M1a Kern 
Auistant Layout Editor, • .....·.....................................·....... ; ••• ~·... Neil Bowen · Layout Staff, •••••.• •••••••• , ..........................·•••• -.,. • • .Steve Vogel 
-
Proofritadert ..; ..........• ..........•·· .................... John. Radosevich 
-
-~----~--­


..;,.:.::;-;;:.,,,,,,,.­

October 7, 1961 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Ind:mna Page 3 


Senate Approves Speaker Policy 
The Student Senate passed the Proposed Speakers Policy at its first meeting of the year on Sep­
ember 28. The new legislation is a substi­tute measure for the original Speaker• s Policy that was pre­sented· at the final Senate.meet­ing last year. Th::itpolicy,origi­nated by StudentBodyVice-Presi­dent Steve Walther, was occ­asioned by the controversial app­earance of Gov. George Wallace last spring: but it stirredup such opposition that it had to·betabled until this fall. The new policy applies to all students and campus organiza­tions who might invite speakers to Notre Dame, with the exeptions of the Academic Commissioner and any organization sponsoring a speaker to address only the members of that organization. Under the policy, the names of. all prospective speakers mustbe submitted to the Senate Speaker · Chairman (who will probably be the Academic Commissioner) for consent or refusal. In special cases the entire Senate Speaker 


Since New Draft Procedure Adopted Army ROTC Down, Air Force Up 
The relaxation of the draft law has apparently had its effect on the Notre Dame ROTC program. with the Army suffering serious declines in enrollment, and only the Air Force increasing its membership. 
·.· . It was just over.a year ago that a new law eliminating married men from the draft went into ef­fect, Notre Dame, along with many other colleges and univer-
Cont. from page 1 

Miller's visit was preceded on Friday by a reception his two daughters, Libby, ;,o and Mary Karen, 17, ancUorBob!'v1iller, Re­publican nlllning locally for U.S. 
Congressman. · Libby, a senior at SacredHea­rt College in Boston, sai~ a few 
words, and advised the 400 att­ending the rally "Please don't be discouraged by the polls, The 
Democrats may have thecolumn-ing from last year's170to"35for ists and th;p011sters, butwehave 1964-65. Col, Blakely, Pr~fessor the people. MaryKa~enis a sen-of Air Science, suggested several ior at Stoneridge Aca emy, . possiblereasonsfortheincrease, 
The reception was sponsored He indicated that those consider-by the Young Americans for ingtheAFROTC program "should Freedom, andthe~ationa!Chair-have a willingness to consider a ;11an andVice-Chairmanbothdel-career in the Air Force because ivered short addresses, of four of five years of duty.'' He 
THE AUTHENTIC FOUR SEASONS 
IN A CONCERT-DANCE OPEN HOUSE WEEKEND 
OCT 17 
8:15 STEPAN CENTER 
TICKET SALES: 1-5 Social Commission Office 
Summer Winter 
Spring Fall 
BOYS ADVANCE SALES $1.25-AT THE DOOR $1.50 

..... ;· 
sities, experienced a decline in also stressedthehighcorrelation time.'' The Colonel mentioned initial ROTC enrollments for the between job preferences and job that Notre Dame contributes the 1963-64 school year. The Army placements in the Air-Force, A largest ratio of commissionedof­ROTC detachment on campusde-possibly more persuasive factor ficers in the Sixth Army Corps. clined from a 1962 enrollment of was the reduction of drill periods This summer Notre Dame sent 1,055 to 778 the next year, This to one per week. 136 Army ROTC cadets to sum-year the Army reported another Thus the-Army's_positi_on in ll"." mer. camp, the highest number of decline in-freshman enrollment; OTC freshman· e:nrollmeni be-· the ?6 schools represented. An from last year's ?34 to the pre-,;,came the subject of appraisal, expected 151 cadets will receive 
sent 19:?. Colonel John Stephens, the new Professor of ·Military Science, admitted his concern o­ver the trend, but felt that the number of personnel ultimately 
commissioned would still behigh.
Lt. O'Neil, freshman instruc­tor for-Naval Science students, reported 103 fourth class mid­shipmen joining this year, and claimed that "There has been no 
noticeabledecrease in enrollment· due to relaxation of the draft law." 
The Air Force, in contrast to the other services, had a gain in its freshman enrollment, climb­Commission, consisting of the SpeakerChairman, the Vice-Pre­sident of Student Affairs, and a Senate member, will determine the advisability of the lecture by a simple majority vote. 
Their judgements, however,can 
be overruled by a majority of the 
Senate. In addition, the President 
of the University has vetopower 
over a .,peaker's appearance; but 
he should submit a letter to the 
Senate explaining his reasons for 
the rejection. 
The policy also empowers the 
Senate to regulate the time ofthe 
lecture, the admission charge, 
the dress of those attending and 
even the format of the lecture;and 
it forbids circulation of any pub­
licity prior to cornmissionapp­
roval of the speaker. 
In other action, tne ;:,enat~ un­
animously approved the Acad­
emic Honor Code, allocated $150 
to Charity Chest, adopted house 
rules after some rather unneces­
sary wrangling, and passed a 
motion condeming the rowdy and 
vulgar behavior at the 9:15 show­
ing of The Best Man, Two days 
earlier. 


Col. Stephens acknowledged that commissions atthecloseofthis the decline may by "possibly at-school year. This is why Col. tributed to, the fact that married Stephens said he was "concerned men cannot be drafted, and to the over the trend" though "notworr philosophy that develops inpeace 
· 

* * * --S.M.C. girls who saw Jack's 
Baby Huey were discouraged when one of the Baby Sitters de­Gibson -Fender cided to keep his clothes on. -­
Harmony -Goya

---The Patio has its beer Ii-
Guitars 
Special Prices for Students on All · 

cense back but don't get excited, you must be 21 and prove it• Guitars and Accessories (sometimes). ---------­
327 South Michigan 

---Libby Miller showed up at Giuseppe's Friday night but nobody booed. ---------­

---Club 65' s pre-game rally Saturday morning managed· to give away their 50 free quarts, but where were the 50 people Rick? --------­
''DACRON"® 
makes the campus scene 
w{th Higgins and the combination is Big On Any Campus. Tailored in traditional Yale and Trim Fit models of 65% "Dacron"* polyester -35% combed cotton for wrinkleless neat looks and carefree wear, at F;/ner Stores everywhere. 
•Dupont's registered
trademark 



October 7, 1964

THE VplCE. Notre Dame, Indiana
Page 4 


-take.-29.hours, or: ab()Ut_$J~.ooo. found out il!.:..~h~-.'l1!e~ionnai~s , Members Added-· they plari a date party at Robert's . . ·' , 
I.B.Mo Finds Neat Nuinhers 

The 1964-1965 social yearatNo­tre Dame got off to a great start last Saturday night with the IBM Dance at the Stepan Center. 
With a few exceptions, So­cial Commissioner Joe ·Sotak said, "About 90% of the couples who made it to the Stepan Center had a great time, judging from the way some ·couples were making cut both on the dancefloor and a1·ot:r;d the buses after tl~ game." Joe went on to relate many other stories of human in­terest, but unfortunately. • • • . 
Slnce this was too first such 
dance ofits kind here, the Social 
Commission .faced difficulties in 
running it which it feels will be 
eliminated in the future. 
The Commission had expected to 
have only around ?00 couples at 
first, but a total of 1?87 couples , wouldn't show and meet new 
were paired up for lastSaturday. This caused everyone connected with the affair, especiallythe So­cial Commission itself, to work almost all day and night up to the day of tre dance. 
Jerry Weiner andFifthianShaw, ND grads, in particular, stayed up until around 4:00 AM one night 
getting the forms ready. Theart staff, composed entirely of SMC students was overburdened as Carol Hart. did much of the art work for the commission. Also, Sue Steele, AnnSlieehan. andc.c. 
Heinl deserve much of the credit on the SMC scene. There ,vas some trouble in get­ting the llsts out in time as the program running through tre computer was wrongand included . superllous information. •.Before 
the program was tried, it was 
estimated the computer time 
would be 29 minutes, The first · 
· trial showed tre program would A lot of interesting things were 
Homecoming·

\BJ 
.. Queen Contest · 

VOTED ON BY THE WHOLE 

-,STlJDENT BODJ ·.WINA FREE WEEKEND S~bmit?-ictures (5x7) to the Social Commission.Office -With her name, age & · · · · · ._.school by Fri Oct. 9 
BACK TO CLASSES ••• 
. ENGLISH
BARNES & NOBLE: 
GOVERNMENT 
HISTORY
·.CoUege ·Outline Series 
KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS 
ON DISPLAY· AT 

. ,...., '. 

worth of computer time, Finally the errors were sound. The new program was nm through the Uni­vac 1107 at 1:30 Friday morning and ·J287 couples were paired up 41/2. minutes later. 
·· Aside from the technical prob­leIUs, there was also some con­fusion in meeting the dates, Holy Cross· hall at St. Mary's had the best organization, even though. there was a line waiting to enter 
· the hall, ., · Lemans worked well,· but not nearly as well as Holy Cross's. On too other hand, mass confus­ion reigned at LaForrune do in part to tre fact that ND students ,vere there who shouldn't have 
been. Also, girls who arrived .. 243 boys. One girl (from Barat) early were either scared tomeet . was communist, While 27. girls 
their dates or thought theirdates 
'friends(' Otherswhotriedtocre­ate some type cif impression or other by coming late also relped confut:e. matters 
As a result, 60 girls each from Barat · and Rosary' were "tm­matched" by ~he computer or otherwise. "AWOL" might be a better term. 
Another problem was caused by a few who l!ed about theirheights and girls ended up a half-inc.h or inch taller than their dates. This was a combination,of the fact that boys who.were 5'10 1/2" rounded 
out their height to 5'11" or 6 feet 
and got dates who were 5'll";al­so girls did not take into accollllt. that they would be wearing heels and gave their height in stocking feet. · On the other side of the fence, there was one girl 5'2" who listed her height as 5'­
7"; reason: "I like tall boys." 
Her date was 6'1". 
Prepared for every course with••• 
famoua educational 113perbnc:Ju perfect for · · learning and reviewing. Over 100 titles on 
the following subjecu: 
·ANTHROPOLOGY· 
ART 
BUSINESS 
DRAMA 
· ECONOMICS EDUCATION 
.ENGINEERING 
concerning religious and political convictions. Most girls had very strong re­
·ligious convictions (901), as op­posed to those with relatively strong (345), not very !mportant (28), and unimportant (6). ·The boys were a little more spread out as 549 had strong convictions, 543 relatively strong, while reli­gious conVictions were not very important to 118 and unimportant to 60 others. 
The political ticketswere pretty well . diVided as· 410 were un­decided. Liberal Democats had 317 Boys and40lgirlsasbackers. .while the .Conservative Republi" cans vtere ne:>.."t with 161 girls and 
and 38 boys, mainly from South · America, answeredanarchistsor · others. 
On the lighter side, there were 
a number of '~ugly pools" being 
run by boys and girls alike, 
There was one couple who had 
been going steady who were sue­
cessfully matched. Anothercou­
ple who met at the Texas-Pixie 
Clubs mixerthenight beforewere 
matched as were two who had 
neighboring rooms in the Hotel 
Lorraine the week before. 
Then there were two seniors, 
the boy from ND and the girlfrom 
SMC, leavingeachotheronlyonce 
since their high school days to­gether, who were matched. 
Library. Council 

.... J~i~-G{;;-Club--.7tudentsPun.lish'' ...c-­
The Notre Dame Glee Club has selected twenty"three new mem­bers for the 1964-65 school year 
· Norman Cousins, president and former editor ofTHE SATURDAY The Notre Dame Glee Club has REVIEW, and Prof; Hi!len Con-selected twentyo\three new mem­stance White. chairman of the hers for the 1964-65 schoolyear. English department at the Uni-The first tenors are Steve Ahlg­versity. of Wisconsin, have been gren, Paul Bonfanti, Gerry Con­named members· of .the Notre. way, John Kennedy, Gerardo•­
Dame Library Cotmcil. · 
· 
LANGUAGES. LITERATURE MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY 
PSYCHOLOGY 
SCIENCE· 
SOCIOLOGY 
SPEECH· 
STUDY AIDS 

. ,Meara, Joel Phillips, Erwin So­iewrew. Included in the Second Tenor : 
section are John Amer, JohnCa­
rey, Steve Griffin. Howard Han­
sen, Keith Harkins, Bob Hofmann, 
Bob· Bradiay, Bob Heineman, 
John Kamp, DaveLando, Ed Mar­
sh, Latanae Parker; John Shee.:. 
han and Denny Simon are the new 
Baritones while' Pat Castellan. · 
Bill Foley, Pete Morris, Denny 
Morrissey, Nick Piacsek, and 
Roger Rowlesarethenewbasses, 
This year, there is no separate 
freshman Glee Club and the new members have been admitted 'di­. rectly into the VarsityGleeClub. 
. STUDENT LOANS . MORRISSEY LOAN FUND· 
Hours

Basement ·M-W,.p 12-1
Student 
T•Th 12:45·1:45 
·center Phone 284~6332 · 
' 


'l:kt11011st of Visklll 1,r. ' 
Craft1mt11 ill Optiu. .. 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT, LENSES 
NOW .11,(souTH B~i...l.} . . . THE SHERLAND BLDG. -.·132 S. MICHIGAN ST. ..:..•c:En!ral 2-1468 
.. r.11(Jlo11se ·of Vision Jn(. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wobash'Ave • ..;.;. Chicago 
• The Univac (not IBM) ·machine almost best• ed the best brains of the Social Commission until a group of students mastered it. Then
it mastered the students, when it chose 'their dates•. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire)


Cl · 
· · · 
h '6 5 p t
u . ar ·y
.· · · . . · . · · . · ..·


s · · 
. .........•
et·. F.. or·.·.· S·a··1· 
The senior Class Club '65 has tentatively scheduledtwo parties for this weekend. During the Ir-ish-Air Force game they plan a tv party, followed by a small 
date party thiltnight. ·Furtherde­tails were not available Sunday. 
The followingSaturday, Oct, 17, · again at Roberts. 
.., 

-. Supper Chili. The band· for this party will be Johnny and the Hur­ricanes• · Still another. date party, fea­turing "the triumphal return of 
Baby Huey and theBabySitters," is planned the next week, Oct. ? ·, 
Sunday nights, distributred .free · to each room and with an off-set circulation of 700. One feature of the paper will be guest editorials by leading Re­
. publican students on othercam­puses, The editors also hope to receive letters of comment. 
Editor of the paper is Jim Kee­nan. with Assistant Editors John Lyons and Lawrence Petroshius, Jr, 
Republican Paper. 
Insight,  a newspaper that  in­ 
tends  to  carry the Republican  
message,  appeared  on  campus  

Sunday, night. ltisindependently · financed and published by Nitre 
Dame students.. . 
Articles by Dr. Bartholemew and Dr. Norling of the faculty were included in the paper. The editor intends· to cover. both the national election and those in the. more populous states, which are well-represented on campus. 
The paper will continue for four more weeks, coming out on 
October 7, 1964 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Indiana Page 5 

Cast Sel~cted For King Lear · 
The University The~ter of Not-speare s tragedy, King Lear, year's The Visit· and gave a part of the Fool, Playingthe part re Dame has taken first stepsto-Dave Clennon has once agalnea-. memorable perfodnance asHen-of Lear's three daughters Gone-· ward beginning its .second decade med the leading r~le, the part of ry Higgins in. My Fair Lady. ril, Regan, and Cordelia w1ll re of performances wfth the casting Lear, Shakespear s tragic hero, Playing the Earl of Kent ~vUl be Carolyn Jaskunas, Angela Sch-
of its first production, Shake-Dave was · Anton S hill i I st · I 
~--..··...•. .r~.·. · v l • c n a . a newcomer tO'UniversltyTheat-refber, and Katherine Lance ot.
T ~ .P. ·.;t. :er's Stage, William Navin, and In supporting roles willbe:Jolm 
Dave Garrick, an old familiar Toth, Duke of Cornwall;AlDunn, By AL SCHULTE most recently nimembered as Duke of Albany: Jim Boho, Duke Los Angeles to Seattle in a big. Tartuffe, will play the Earl of of Burgundy and an Old man, ten-fat jet, Smooth ride. The Stew­
1 · Gloucester. Edgar,. son of Glou-ant of Gloucester; Richard r...Ucal ardess sli~s by and whimpers, 
\ M 
cester will be played by PatKel-King of France: M!keConrad, Du-"Ham or roast beef?" Suddml.y 
,, , } ly and Edmund, bastard son of ran a courtier;· Steve Cacidey, chaos) A crash landing on the Gloucester, will be played by Oswald, steward toGoneril; Greg beach. Only the stewardess sur­J ohn Patrick Hart, TechnicalDi-Grieco, Doctor: Steve Way, Cap,. vives•. And then begins the slow rector of University Theater. tain under Edmund: Dave Sauer, reconstruction of the mishap by 
Terry Francke will take the Gentleman, attendant on Cord-the airline and the FBI. Was it 
· eliaL sabotage or engine failure? Ora snmr.;.prone pilot? Fate Is The Hunter strikes attheColfaxlThis 
week)

Board ·Interviews 
Council Applicants. 
Lord of the Flies, ·a British ApproXimately 75 students have. form. film (not a moVie) shows at Wash­applied for positions on the Uni-The changes include a written ington Hall this Saturday. Artis­verslty 's new Honor Council. pledge, the expansion ofthel-bn­tically done, it posesthe question: Twenty-five of these will be se-or Council to ?5 members, the What happens when a group of lected by a special interview listing of more specific duties schoolboys ar1: marooned on a d.e­board within the next week. for the Council, new methods of sert isl~? Perhapstheyforma The interviewboardincludesthe reporting honor violations, diff­Utopian comrmmity inbred by S.B.P., the chairman of the Blue erent procedures 1n investigation their education at. Harrow. Or Circle, class presidents, college of a reported Violation, the re­perhaps they tum' savagetoin­
. senators. editors of the'Voice, quiring of only five ·out of six sure survival: Heh.· heh. ·' and the Scholastic and the station Honor Council members hearing :1 ,manager of W,S.N.D. . the case 'to vonvlcr, and a pro-
I Immediately after selection the cedure for appeal. · · I thillk it was Madame Polly "iHonor Council. will begin 'ftmcl The proVision of warning by one Adler.who wrote in herautobiog­'Honor Council will begin func-. student to another is regardedas raphy (and I quote) ''A Housels tioning. Besides the judicial du-the key to the Honor Code, since Not A Home." That.heldtruees­ties prescribed inthe Honor Code this stresses the personal re-pecially back in New York in the .the Council will set up conferen-sponsibility of students to uphold 20'sand 30'.s when she cateredto :ces with the faculty. on a depart-the code•. The new feature of the elaborate tastes ofthel,'nder-Jmental basis and enlist the sup-lighter penalties for a student world,. But FiorelloH. LaGuard­
port of student groups and lea-who turns himself in is also de-ia stopped her little game. Sigh, ders. · The Council wm· also con-signed to encourage a sense of So she tramped out to UCLA to · duct correspondence with other _personal honor on thepartofstu-learn to· write; that's how she schools that .already have honor dents. · came up with this matter-of.:.fact systems 1n 9peration. · The requirement that two wit-story that shows at the Granada 
Doug Lovejoy, chairman of the nesses are needed to call a trial this weekend.· committee. which .. proposed the was adopted to .avoid the matter · · Code, is pleased with "the great · of having one person's word be-· 
1?J amount of interest" shown in it. ing opposed to another. A unan­
·1;i But he believes there is· "still imous decision is no longer ne-'"Becket, ah Becket, areyou still a large number of the student cessary for conviction because playing at the State?" body and the faculty who have no the faculty felt it would be Vir-'I am, I am. To thrilled audien­
idea how it works." tually impossible to get six peo-cences. Several changes havebeenmade ple to agree. , · '"Becket, ah Becket, are you . good?" "Good? Why .superb) Remember ,. who I am, my ladl'' 
Library work making you·. ... 
Hungry?? Drowsy?? 
-. 
Take a break! and visit the •• 
Library Vend-:--Cente~ 
....,i ' 
· Soda 

in the Honor Code since itsadop­tion by the student . body last spring. Most of the amendments were the results of suggestions from faculty members before the approval of the Code by the Aca­demic Council. These were ap­proved in the· first Student Sen­ate meeting Sept. ?8. . One of the changes was proposedandef­fected by the Student Senate alone. 
The Senate amendment, which is not includedin the printed Honor Code distributed to students, in­
olves the appeai procedure after the trial of an honor Violation. 
he amendment stipulates that if any two members of the five­man board vote to reverse the 
rial decision, the Violator will then be acquitted. · 
The other changesweremade by the faculty and are incorporated · in the printed copy . of the Code. The main purpose of these

Guess. Who! 
amendments is to streamline the Code and bring it into document 

WIN A FREE HOMECOMING WEEKEND··· 

You Win *Spending.Money ~ Mancini Tickets 
•use of a car • Game Tickets 
•A Ball Bid 
Chances 5 for •$i.00 25tEach 
I • . •. 
Wed. Nite &· Thurs. Nite 
I 


October 7, 1964

Page 6 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Indiana 

Big Drum No Joke Largest In World 
Last Saturday the Notre Dame drum so larg it had to detour a­Marching Band casually watched round the goal post. at halftime as Purdue honoredits The new drum is the world's well-known 'World's Largest larges one-headed bass drum. Drum'. Then after Purdue tnm-The head itself is eightfeetindi­dled its drum back underthegoal ameter, and atop Its carriagethe post,· the. 'Fifing Irish' proceed-, stands ~out ten feet high. The ed to wheel onto the field a new rim of the drum is offlberglass 
constrnction, while thedrumhead 
PUBLIC CAFETERIA is made of three-ply DuPontMy­
South Dining Hall lar plastic. 
._ The drum..was. originally con-..
SODA FOUNTAIN·. 

structed two years agobyRich­Mon. thru Fri. ard Music Company, Mr. Ralph 7:30'A.M.-9:30 P.M. Kester of South Bend designed the drum. Kester has made sev­
All Types of Sandwiches 

eral innovations in drum design. 

THE VOICE Is! 
We Wonder If Campus Groups 
· .Knew That the Voice Is the 
Cheapest And Most Powerful 
Way of Publicizing Their 
Activities. You-_Could Buy the 
·Whole Paper for $480 a Week: 
However We Recommend Smaller 
Ads of $1.50 for a Column Inch. 
Slip a note under our door; it's on 
the secon_d floor of the Student 
Center 
Weight Limits 
A fe-.v additionshavebeenmade to Studmt Trip plans. Dispensa­tion !rom abstinence has hem 
· granted only for the meal aboard the planes, Jack O'Connell, ch­airman, has announced. 
On baggage handling, there will be a strict weight limit of 35 pounds in one suitcase only. This is required to meet weight limits for the aircraft set by the CAA. No handcasesor suitcases,villbe permitted to be carried aboard the plane. 
In accordance with the instruc­tions distributed to all trippers, luggage should betaken to theSte-

Off Base 

There are 1300 students at N.D. who make their residence off­campus. These students are just 
as much a part of the university as anyone liVing on campus.. In the past however, student publi­. cations have not had any partic­ular Interest in off-campus life but instead they have kept main­ly within the realm ofcampus in­
terests, THE VOICE however, 
has decided. to run a column to present the off-campus life to the entire studmt body inaneffort. that the campus and off-campus lives may become more compat­
ible. . . 
and the Notre Dame Marching One issue which concerns all Band has used Kester-designed students ls the recent hitch-hik­.regular size one-headerl bass 
about the field and be spim about a diagonal axis. A large drum beater was made. but experimen­tation showed that a conventional bass drum beater produced the best sound. 
It is not yet certain what the band will do with its Ile$ drum. 
DR. N. FIZDALE 
Ol'TOMETRIST 
CONTACT LENSES 
Inquiries Ill'Vited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED 
OPTICAL REPAlllS 
1 to 24-Hour Servlc.e 
305 s.. Michigan AT 7-5'71 

Set At 35 

pan Center tomorrow from 4:00 p,m, to 7:DO p,m. From there it will be taken to the airport, put on the planes, taken from the planes in Denver and be transported to the Hotel, The procedure will be 
exactly the opposite ingettingthe luggage back 'to Notre Dame. 
It will be ready Monday in the Stepan Crnter from 11:00 a,m. to 
3:00 p.rn. 

Terry Daily, who is handling the transportation phase of the trip adVises trippers to carry their 

drums for several years. 

The large drum was first used in 196?. at the Mason City, Iowa, premier of themovie''The l'vlusic Colonel John J, Stephens has Man"•. The Richards went out of been appointed Army Professor business some months ago, Kes-of Military Science. Hisprevious ter regained the large drum and tour of duty was in the Office of suggested its possibleusetoNot-· the Anny Chief of Information in re Dame.band director Robert.E.__Washington. · O'Brian. Colonel Stephens entered the 
The drum was painted with ND Anny as an infantry officerafter monogram, and-a special carr-attending St, Louis U, andtheUn­iage was constructed so that· the iversity of Iowa, He served as drum could both be moved easily military attache in India and ad­
visor to the Turkish and South Korean armies, His medalsinc­lude the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, with two OakLeafClusters, the Anny Commendation Ribbon, the Purple H=art, andthe Combat Infantry Badge, 
YOU HA VE NEVER SEEN AN 
ENTERTAINER UNTIL YOU'VE.SEEN 



HARRY. 


BELAFONTE 
NOVEMBER 1st -STEPAN CENTER 
TICKET SALES THURSDAY OCT. 15 IN THE COKE BAR OF THE RATHSKELLAR 

HOMECOMING 
FR: OCT 24, 1964 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
TICKET SALES FOR HOMECOMING 2 & ALL OTHER HC EVENTS THUR NITE _6:30-9:.00-FIESTA LOUNGE 




'I ---···-•·--·--·•-· ----·-. -----· ,-.,_,. __ ·"-•··· ·•·----..,.... .,,-...----------•-··-•----,.._... ,_ ----··--··"...... I 
" 
I 
October .7, 1964 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Indiana Page 7 
Sto Joseph's Hall Houses Students With A Difference 
Just north of the Notre Dame 
campus, across St, Joseph lake, stands an old yellow brick build­ing that few people know anything about. It is St, Joseph' Hall and it houses students who someday will play an important role inthe religious lives .of thousands of people around the world. 
The men who liveinthis build­ing are described as ''Notre Dame students with a difference!' by Fr. Joseph Fey c.s.c. super­ior of St Joseph Hall. 
''They areboys pursuing educa­tion with the intention of ulti­going into the priesthood or rell­gious life but not necessarily in the Holy Cross Order. They are boys who want a little time to think and while they have the in­trntfon of becoming a religious, tliey have not committedthem­selves by vows or any otherform of contract." 

St, Joseph Hall might becalled a postulate for delayed vocations though there is no formal name for it. It was organized after World War.ll when the war vete­rans, who had time:to do some serious ·t_hinking, returned to Notre Dame. In theseearlyyears the program occupied onefloor in St Edwards Hall on campus, . Later it was moved to the Old 
· College building and then, three years ago, to its presentlocation 
r 
,_. ·_, -· -, ".HarrycBelafonte, an entertain~ i • ment giant in the concert and re­,cording field and a recipient ofI' , : >'f<television's highest award, ·the ';_ ~ ) ·.: Emmy, ·w111 make hisfir5F college -tour ·appearance fo the United ·· -Statesinada:adewhenheappears , ,· at Stepan Center,. University.of . Notre Dame on November 1st, for the Mardi GrasKick-offConcert, . . . "Belafonte in·Person" intro­~ces the unique voice of Greek songstress Nana Mouskourl, the backing of the Belafonte Singers and spotlights two old-timers in folk-jazz, Brownie McGhee and 
Sonny Terry, . Belafonte opens, his show by simply singing, He sings nine• numbers be.fore he evm ad­dresses the audience, Entering on a darkened stage without any · musical accompaniment orintro­. duction, he opens "cold" 1n the true sense of the word, winning his audiences without bmefit of · introductory acts or any form of the usual "warm up" extendedto a star, 
The entire program consists of ballads, audience-participation songs, standards that are Bel­afonte trademarks, and many ex,.. 
by Brian Miller 
which was form_erly occupied by the regular seminarians until the new Moreau Seminary was built. 
St. Joseph Hall is unusual in that the studmts have wide and varied backgrounds.Amongthose who have completed thclrwork 
-there are a barber, a college pro­fessor, a valedictorian of Notre Dame ··class, and two German youths who were former mein­bers of Hitler's •tyouth Group", Both of the Gennans have since bem ordained to the priesthood. One has stayed at Notre Dame and ts now a teacher while the other is working in St. Mary's Cathedral in Austin Texas, 
"The students at St, Joseph Hall follow .the same course of study as the regular Notre Dame studrnt according to their year in school, but there 1s a special emphasis on philosophy and La­tin,' says Fr. Fey,
In mostcases, the studett stays at St. Joseph Hall for one year. If he wishes to continue, he then goes to the Holy Cross noVitiate at Jordon Minnesota for a period of intensive spiritual training. The candidate spends exactly366 days at Jort'lon and on the final day takes his vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. Moreau · Seminary is the next stop for the future religious. Here he comp.. letes his college studiesandrec­ieves his bachelorof artsdegree, 
Following the candidates educa­tion at Notre Dame, hetakesfour years of Sacred Theology, If a candidate ls a college graduate and qualified 1n Latin and Philo­sophy, he might go direc:tlyfnto Theology after the novitiate year. ~lllCe the program was started 
over 550 men have 'graduated! 
most of whom continued on to the 
novitiate. 
"Most of the studmts at St. 
Joseph Hall continue on. They 
are, for the mostpart, mature 
men who know what they want,'' 
Fr. Fey said. 
Life atSt.Joseph's isnot as lie­
surely as that of the studeits on 
campus. The student rises at 
5:55 a, m. and retires at 11 p.m. The hours berween are well bud­geted with time for classes and study, prayer and recreation. In addition to this the student isas­signed a certainamountofhouse­work which he must do each day, The student has one night free a week and enjoys the same vacat­ions and holfdays as the regular Notre Dame student, 
"At the present time thereare 22 students at St. Joseph Hall, a considerable decreasing number from last year when there were 35, We have 30 vacant rooms and w·e cordiallyinViteanyonein­
terested to Visit , us for a day, a week, or, if they so desire, for the whole year," says Fr. Fey, 

JJelaf onte Begins College Tour · 
•/:,'At Mard_i Gras Kickoff Concert 
. changes with· the audience,· with 
simple, yet dramatic lighting. 
This show is a di~ect program, 
without complex productions and 
tricky staging to sell the-coment, 
It is pure Belafonte. Amanalone 
on a stage with the spotllghtfoc­
used upon his grace and hismag­
ical quality of theatrical hypnosis 
Sonny Terry and Brownie MC­
Ghee in their specialintrumental 
section have won audiences throu­
ghout past tours with their unus­
ual use of the guitarand harmon­
ica. 

Miss Mouskouri, fluent llnguist . 
will touch upon the musical heri­
tage of. many lands, sung In their 
native tongues, 

Such songs as "Back or Th· e 
Bus,• 'Dew Drop,'· 'Glory l\1a­
nager'' and °FourStrongW1nds" 
O.C. STUDENTS 
READ 
OFF BASE. 
·are among the· new ·Belafonte · songs that will join old favorites. 

Be a good dancer and gain confidence! 
Come to Arthur Murray's and learn the secret of smooth graceful dancing. You'll be _amazed and thrilled how . quickly and easily you will be dam:­ing with carefree confidence. In no 
. time at all you will be the envy a( your friends.· But act now I 
ARTHUR MURRAY · 120 E. Wayne Phone CE 2-3339 


HOMECOMING FOR 1964  
Ticket Sales For  ·: ·, • Communion Breakfast .  
*Henry Mancini Concert  
Wed Oct7 ..;.._ for all hid winners  *Game  
Thur Oct 8  -:._  for all others  ·  *A • d • ccomo ahons  

6:30-9:00 in the Fiesta Lounge . 
Irish -Air Force Game On Big Screen TV 
sale Wednesday and Thursday iI, the dining halls at 85 cents for the pair of games. At the door tickets will be 50 cents, The ad­mission will be only 25 cents for 
The Notre Dame-Air ForceAc­ademy football game will appear 
, on Big Screen television Saturday at 3:30 in the fieldhouse, Doors will open at 2:45. 
According to Terry Corcoran, Chairman of Big Screen TV, the Navy game on Oct. 31 and possi­bly the Pittsburgh game on Nov. 7 will be shown through the same medium. 
Advance tickets for the Air Force and Navy games will go on 
HONDA 
Honda of Michiana 2531 L.W.W., Mishawaka 255-2388 Open Evenings 
SMC girls. 

"Big Screen TV provides the next best thing for those who are unable toattendtheseawaygarnes in person." Corcorancomment­ed. 'Besides getting a good view of the action, those srudents att­ending are able to cheer and exp­ress their spirit in a large group," 
As in the past the television sc­reens will be set up on the bas­ketball floor while the spectators wUl occupy the northern stands of the fieldhouse. 
Big Screen TV is presented as a non-profit service of the student Affairs Commision. 
Typing Wanted 
Will Pick Up and Deliver 
Paper Woric -Call Mrs, 
Kaylor 272-0270 



"Authentic. Ivy'' . 3-Piece Worsted Suit 
~-­
-~ 

" 
The well-dressed University man, today, 
wears a vested suit. And for the vested suit 
at its best, he chooses a Brookfield. They're 
superfine IJUre worsted ... authentic Ivy 
all the way . , .. and tailored like $5o 
far more costly suits. • 
at your favorite retailer, or write · BROOKFIELD• 1290 AYe. of An1erkas •· ~ew York 10019 
a complete selection at 

GILBERTS 
the authorized college headquar(ers ' /or Brookfield /ashions . 


I
·Page 8 THE VOICE Notre Dame, Indiana October 7, 1964 
I 
I 





IRISH. HUNT F LCO 
s 
, 

Seek Third Victory 

Air Force coach Ben Martin Either Senior Dave Backus or brought the Falcons a respec-southpaw Tim Murphy will see table 7 -3 record last year. In action against the Irish. The re-. 1964 a break-even season would mainderof thebackfieldisstrong. put him up for Coach of the Year Halfbacks Paul Wargo and versa­honors: Air Force foes include: tile Dick Czarnota areextremely Washington,Michlgan, Missouri, talented. The fullback slot is as U.C.L.A., and Notre Dame. good with Steve AmdorandLarry 
In their opening engagement Air Tallstam sharing the duties. Force squeaked by highly touted The Falcons have considerable Washington 3 -2. Last weekend depth at end. Fritz Greenlee fs while the Irish were turningthe one of them, His tremendous tables on Wisconsin 31-7 Mich-sophmoreye_ar made Greenlee the 
· igan trounced the AirForceAca-first Negro varsity letterman at demy 24 _ 7, Wolverine backs the ~cademy. Coach Martin has made swiss cheeseoutoftheFal-nothing butpraiseforarookiede­
con's Line, gaining 3ll yards fensive flanker John Fuster through the holes. Leading the line corps is se-· 
Air Force enters the Notre nlor guard Tom Gorges. Gorges Dame battle a 14-6 win overCol-will be backed by center -line orado State, a team they defeated backer Wendell Harkleroad. 69-0 last season. With 19 returning lettermen Air 
Force will not be beaten handily, 
Nineteen lettermen returned to but the Irish will be tougher in the Colorado Springs thisfall, but the lfne. This alone should be enough Coach Martin misses most is to begin this new series with 
missle-launcher TerryIsaacson. ':-victory. 


Biseball's fall practice began of third baseman. Tom Blythe, Monday, Sept. 28, --andalthough second baseman, Al Kristowski it is early for predictions this and first baseman, Joe Schrader. year's Klinemen will have a solid Bill Jamison and Shaun Fitzmau­lettermen lineup. rice return in the outfield where · Graduation took quality not Cowirel's right field positionwill quantity, however, in Rlch Gon­still have to be filled. ski, Notre Dame• s shortstop for Fitzmaurice, Notre Dame's the past three seasons. and Jolm centerfielder and leading hitter, Counrel, captain and right field­is not in school this semester er, who have both signed major due to his selection to the United league contracts --Gonski with States Olympic Baseball Team Detroit and Counsell, with .the which has left for Tokyo. New York Mets. . In addition to his veterans.Jake 
Returning are an experienced Kline and his assistant coach, catching staff. Dick Sauget and Chuck Lennon, will have a fresh Chuck Snow; a veteran mound group of sophs plus utility men, corps nucleus, Ed Lupton.. Frank Torn Shigo, Frank Murtha, Jolm 
Karazim and Larry Kemiedy: and Zulberti, and Howdy Oelerich. the 1964 infield, Gonskiexc:epted, 

Clark Leads Harriers Over DePaul 
The Notre D11me Cross.Coun­rado try teamled by Billy Clark easi­ltth. ND lltVitational at ND ly bestedDePaulUniversltyl6-36 last Saturday in Chicago. The I­rish under Coach Alex Wilson Oct. 10th. Air Force at Colora­captUred five of the first sixpla­do 
ces. 16th. ND brvitational at ND 
However, junior Ed Dea~ one ?3rd, Michigan .State Uni­of the finest runners on the squad versity at·East Lan­pulled up with a strained knee sing muscle after a mile and a half. 
31st. Indiana State Meet atHe is definitely sidelined for the. 
Indianapolis·next two weeks. 
This weekend the team travels to the Air Force·Academy with Nov. 6th. Indiana at Blooming~ the Irish football team in what ton will be their first real test ofthe 
13th. c.c.c. at Chlcago
season. 
16th. IC4A M'?et at Ne.v CROSS -COUNTRY SCHEDULE York ?3rd. NCAk Meft at East 
Oct, 10th. Air Force at Colo-
Lansing 
EdHugetz 
Last Saturday, before some60, 
000 fans, the 1964 Notre Dame football team proved they could win under ideal weathercondi­tions as easily astheycouldaway under miserable. 
The convincing 34-15 victory o­
ver Purdue. vanished all suspi-. 
cions that the Wisconsin win had 
possibly been one of thosefreaks 
of football. 
It took a Purdue touchdown 
to get theIrish starteel but byhalf­
time Notre Dame wasaheadl-~-7. 
In the third quarterthelrishwore 
out the Boilermakers and con­
trolled the game the rest of the 
way. 
Purdue, as was expected, was a more formidable foe in the line that Wisconsin had been. Thede­fensive line ofthe Boilermakers was as big as any the Irish will face this year, 
Jim Snowden, starting for the injured John Meyerat offensive tackle, teamed upwithrightguard Dick-Arington to springlooseBill 
Pass protection was again ex.. cellent, Too Purdue line reached John Huarte only once, Jolmcom­pleted 9 out of 20 for 127 yards, Jack Snow, often doubled teamed, caught six of Huarte's passes for 8?. yards. . 
The play selection was again .superb, Picld.ttg away at theten­spots in the Purdue defense, the . 
Irish ran some sixty..sevenplays 
duri12g the game, Wolski, Farrell 
and Kantor ccntbiued theirattack 
up the middle whileNick Eddy ef­
fectively swept the ends, Eddyal­
so threw thekey block that sprung 
Pete Andreotti on his 73-yard 
touchdown run. 
The Irish offense was highlight­
ed by Snow's 87.-yard quick-kick, 
the use of the screen pass, and 
the fake field goal. 
Using tl-e 4-4-3 defense instal­
ed by Parsegian andJohn Ray,the 
inexperiaiced but· spirited Irish 
line baffleq their second Big Te:i 
opponent. 

In many ways the defe1se, which , is origlanl with Ray, workslikea ~ 6-2-3 with the exception that Ray's : --3 has mobility and speed. Thekeyisspeedandpur­
End Alan Page (78) thunders .57 yards for third period touchdown, (Photo by Pat Ford) 
Boilermakers Cooled 
Before Capacity Crowd 
Kostelnik. Ken Maglicic, andJim yards per game. Theblitzing has 
Lynch or Alan Loboy will jumpin also helped the secondarypick off and out of the line before theball · seven passes this season. is snapped. Whentheballissnap.. The play that pleased the Irish ,. peel two of these linebackers will most was sophomoreAlanPage's generally blitz. Inadditionto giv­touchdown. Kevin Hardy rushed ing the defei.se more speed, it the punter untouched, blockedtlie 
also · confuses the· opposition's kick, and· Page snatched the ball blocking assignments. out of the air and outranthePur­The results have been impres­due halfback for 57-yards, Page · sive. In two gamestheoppone1ts may win the 'back of theweek' a­·have rushed for an averageoflS-ward for this one, 
Ruggers Shut Out Indiana 
Sparked by the long runs of Nat Davis and Jack Redding, the No­tre Dame Rugby team topped In­diana 18 -0 Friday night in its first and last home appearance of the 1964 Fall campaign. 
A large crowd flocked to. light­ed Cartier Field following the the pep rally to see the Irish re­cord their second win of the young season in as many outings. 
A week ago, the ruggers opened their season in Madison, Wis­sin by scoring a 5 -0 win over the Badgers. ·In that game, Dick 8!11 scored the only .try of the game as the team was halted four times near the Wisconsin goal.line,. 

Ten lettermen returned at the 
start of the season. Heading the group is lineman Mike Murphy, Captain and. Club President, and last season's MVP. He leads a forward wall made up of such experienced hands as Dick Bell, . John Mauro, HarrySteele and Ben 
Beall, 
In the backfield 'are sixof the ten returning lettermen. Trey in­clude Bob Mier, former Captian and Club President and the origi­nator of the Rug by Club atNotre Dame, Nat Davis, Al Byrne, Rex Lardner and J olm Redding. Since its beginning 3 years ago, the. team record has improved each year. 
Last reason's ll-2-4markwas 
the best effort so far. 
suit at the four linebacker spots, 

Bill McGuire, and Chuck Toeniskoetter make the stretch for a
These four, Jim Carroll, Tom 

loose ball at a lineout during last Saturday's Rugby game. 
Foto News Litho -Ram~rr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 



