Senate Passes New· Constitution 
The Student Senate voted in the perience amongitsmembers, and The seconct major contest in­new Student Government consti­consequently much of the polem­volved the qualifications for tutl on at its transition meeting ics involved its makeup and size. Vice -President. Two amend­Monday night. Later in the meet­Senator McNamara introduced ments were offered, again by ing, the recently elected SG of­an amendment to reinstate the so­McNamara and Stewart. Stewart ficers were installed, and the called Stay Senate (members wanted to limit the vice-presi­Stay Senators elected. elected by the body from withing dency to persons with Senate· ex­Most of the meeting was spent the bodY), which the constitution perience, while McNamara want­in consideration of some 26 a­had dropped altogether, while ed to.broaden the base to include mendments to the proposed leg­reducing their number from anyone with any sort of class, islation submitted by Barry Mc­seven to four. The amendment · hall, or SG experience, Paul Namara and Bob Stewart. Three passed on a narrow 15-11 roll Meagher_introduced a third pos­points were especially contend­call vote, in perhaps the closest sibility--to draw candidates from ed: the composition oftheSenate, vote of the evening, after little both the Senate and the Executive vice-presidential qualifications, debate, Council. After considerable dis­and the method of selection of More heated debate (over 30 cussion and parliamentary hass­the SG Secretary and Treasurer. minutes, worth) ensured on Bob ling, Meagher' s proposal passed 
Under the proposed constitution, Stewart's motion to relieve the easily, the Senate would be composed of college Senators of their duties The final substantial changes only 18 members--one fromeach on the Executive Council and re­concerned the election of the hall, and one for off-campus stu­seat them in the Senate, This Secretary and Treasurer, and 
Newly installed Student Body President Minch Lewis conducts a 
dents. However, the Senate ap­time, the amendment was de­was undoubtedly the ·most hotly
cabinet meeting in the Student Government office. Around the table are Dick. Kennedy, Jack. Balinsky, Jay Cooper, Lewis, and Barry parently felt that it was neces­feated, and the colleges lost their contested point, The post of SG McNamara. (Photo, by Mike Ford)· sary to insure continuity and ex-representation in the Senate. Secretary was not provided for 
in the constitution, and it was presumed that the SBP would ap­_McCarragher· THE point his own Secretary,· How­ever, it took a good hour of name-calling and gavel-pound­
on Stay Hall 
ing, and a· request for a cooling­
Father Charles}. McCarragher, 
off period by McNamara, before vice-president for. student af­the Secretary and Treasurerwlll fairs, says stay-hall will pro­be chosen by and from the Senate. 
OF NOTRE DAME
bably have only one yeartoprove After the lengthy consideration itself, · · of the amendments, the consti­
''The number o.f trial halls will Volume,3, Number 20 UNIVERSITY. of NOTRE DAME Wednesday, May 5, 1965 tution itself passed with no dif­have to· expand the next year to ficulty, five or· six. for instance, o·r, if . --Then the Stay Senators for. next 
it doesn't work, we will probably year were elected. They are Jed ·revert back to the old system." Kee, Tom Mulvihill, Tom Mc­

News Medi~ Change-Hands/ 
He emphasized. that stay-hall is Manmon, and Bill Bender. 
Next year's major officers for Terry Ward will be the editor Gerken, music director: Rick Following that, the outgoing of­
"strictly an experiment." 
· In related matters, Father Mc-the ''Dome", ''Scholastic", and of next year's Dome, Ward is Madden; business director; Bill ficers made farewell speeches WSND have been announced. presently student--rI!eeditor of · Hartman, sales manager; Jim and introduced their successors•
. Carragher noted that the Admin­
The new editor of the ''Scho-the year book and is an English Colleran, head of traffic and a
istration is contemplating no SBP John Gearen received change in the present method of lastic" is John Twohey, Regan major. continuity; Bob Schwartz, public . standing ovation from the Senate room selection. Specifically, Burkholder and Jed Kee will be Assisting him will be Associate relations director; and Jim for his moving. remarks and for rectors will retain authority over associate editors, and John Gor-Editor Joe Starshal<, a history Dwyer, technical engineer. his work throughout the year. man and Brian Graham will serve major who is currently academ­
room selection within their re­Lee McCarthy, station manager, The new clficers are President 
spective halls. as contributing editors. ics editor of the Dome. and Tim Murphy, business mana­Minch Lewis; Vice -President The vice -president also re­Managing editor for the "Scho-John Scanlan, a junior, has been ger, represented WSND at the Tim Gunn; Secretary Mike Dou­lastic" be named to.the new position of copy Radio and Televi­
marked that the Administration will Rick Weirich. International cette; and Treasurer Rich Lint-
V will be unable to give financial Bill Roach will be the news editor editor. Rod Julian will be student sion Society's annual conference . Ing. >,--··--afcftoplans ·of•Minch Lewis for and Tom Bettag, the sports life editor; Dudley Andrew, aca-, in New York on April 8 and 9. editor, Joseph Kaminski is the demics editor; and Dave Ward, · Over 70 college stations were. 
(Cont'd on p. 6) 
new_ business manager. ·sports editor. Dave Heskin will represented. ' · ' be organizations editor and John "Discussion with other student
r. ClLA Elects
Sawyer photo editor, station mangers indicated WSND This year's Domes are expect­appears comparable in quality
i f St. Mary's .·to Accept
! ~ -. ed to be distrib"'iitecT'aboutMay21 •. and performance to any other 

New Leaders
IBM certifications will be re­college radio station in the quired; announcements on how to country," Business Manager The Council for the Interna­200 Additional Students. obtain the certifications will be Murphy reporte~ tional Lay Apostolate (CILA} has made at a later date. "In most cases it far exceeds elected officers for the coming 
By Karen Keres '.exchange system ...The.program The Dome needs new staff mem­the other stations in broadcast­year. Dan Scott will be itschair­is moving along smoothly", but bers, particularly forwritingand ing time and variety of program­man; Drew Kershen, its secre­the number of students involved for .the sports section. Photog­ming." Murphy said the purpose tary; and Jim Lynch,· its new
Two hundred more resident stu­
raphers are also needed. · of the conference is to expose treasurer.
dents will live at St, Mary's Col­can only be approximated until lege next year, according to registration is completed. The ·Tom Cox has been named station undergraduates running stations . Father Hesburgh will celebrate Dean expects that 40 or 50 girls to professional thinking and to
.Sister Basil Anthony,· Dean of manager of WSND for next year. Mass on May 17, for the 36 Not­
Women. will be. enrolled in the Collegiate He will be assisted by Denny create an exchange of ideas, re Dame men who will be en­LeMans, Holy Cross, and the Seminar normally taken byNotre Corrigan as AM program di­Topics·coveredincluded:broad­gaged in CILA projectsthis sum­new dorm will be open to all Dame juniors. · rector and Bob Cavanaugh as FM cast operations, standards -and mer, practices in programming, ad­members will do social
four classes in order to more program director. CILA· 
quickly integrate the freshmen Princess And The Pea Other new appointments include: vertising. sales, ne\vs and public work in the United States, con­
into the college community, A The SMC Department of Speech Bob Anson, news director; Mike affairs coverage, and the respon­struct houses in Mexico, and work program of•. senior counseling and Drama in conjunction with Collins, sports director; Walter sibility and role of the college in hospitals and community de­has also been initiated and is the American AssociationofUni..; Balst, production engineer; Jack . station. velopment projects in Peru. 
versity Women will present its
being directed by SisterMargaret 
annual Children's·Theatre pro­
Rita. 
duction, "The Princess and the
Academic Dean Sister Alma ex­


Architecture Building Dedicated 
Pea," this coming weekend. · 
presses enthusiasm for the co-
Written by William A. Gratton By Latanae Parker was officially dedicated last architecture alumni, and stu-· and Patricia Smanda, ''Prin­Saturday by Rev. Theodore M. dents.Four Seniors cess" has a sophisticated wit With ·. the words "That's it" Hesburgh, Notre Dame's presi-Pietro Belluschi, Dean of the which is brought out through the School of Architecture and Plan­W• F ·}b • ·h style of the Commedia Dell Arte. 
ning at Massachusetts Institute ID u rig ts The play is being directed by of Technology, spoke after the· 
. , , . · , Mr. Gratton and opens Thursday blessing and dedication. In ad­Four Notre Dame seniors have evening. dition to being one of. three received Fulbright Scholarships. s·:.rc, z• members of anNDadvisorycom­
m 1

Bruce Palka, John Anton, Mike . s iggy mittee on architecture, Belluschi Wilsey, .and Charles Tatum have SMC's Ziggywill.behaVingmore is internationally known for. his been awarded the scholarship, customers, since the opening of buildings and planning. given by the \Jnited States gov-the new · dining hall. It is now The rvnT dean identified the emment for students to study impossible to feed the hoards in greatest problem affecting archi­abroad for one year. the Reignbeau, ·. as SMC has tects today as urbanization. Ac­
Bruce Palka and John Anton, · switched to cafeteria style meals, cording to Belluschi, people must who room together inLyonsHall, with fixed portions. not only try to change their en­are both math majors and will The miniature complaints are vironments but also change them-study in Germany. being worked out, and, accord-selves, · 
.Mike Wilsey of Sorin Hall is ing to Sister Basil Anthony, Dean Belluschi commented on the uni­presently in the General Pro-of Women; "it's too soon to tell/' queness and beauty of ND' scamp­gram and will work in Santiago, The food· is .still of the same us, paying tribute to the archi­Chile, He plans to do a study of quality. tects who were able to· use the the Christian Democratic Party · The snack bar-coffee shop re­same materials and forms inde­there, . . mains in the planning stages, signing new and· different build­
Chuck Tatum is an off-campus but will oi;en next year. Visitors ings. student and a Spanish major wh~ will be welcome; hopefully, it . Saturday's event· concluded with 


· ·. plans to continue his studies at will. serve as a convenient place Pie,tro Belluschi, Fr, HesbUTgh, and Walter Grophiu;. at tbe dedica-a reception and dinner that even­the University of Madrid in Spain. for faculty-student dis7ussion. tion of the Architecture Building. (Pboto by Alike Fard) . ing in the North Dining Hall. 

Free Speech Movement 11­
Practically every political observer on Even without the restrictions, the YD's campus has lamented the absence of any and YR's would very likely fai( to stir real political awareness among Notre up lively political discussion. While the 
Dame students. The obvious and probab­members themselves may be politically 
ly.correct explanation is student apathy; · 
\ 
but one of the primary reasons for the apathy is the not quite so obvious uni­
t 
versity limitation imposed on campus po­litical activity._ 
Administration policy toward campus po­litical groups has ranged from general harassmeft of their activities to abso­lute prohibition . of their _even existing. Until 4 years ago, when the Young Dem­ocrats and .Young Republicans were formed, partisan political clubs were not allowed on campus. At that time, the ad­ministration permitted their creation, but established a ludicrous set of regulations that restrict the cl.ubs to an stacademic and educational approach" to politics. The limitations, which appear in the club constitutions, include the following: 
1. "No candidate for public office, whether local, state, or national, shall be ·officially endorsed or op­posed by the President of the Club, · 
.the ExecutiYe Board, the Club itself, or individual members acting alone or with others as Club members. 
2. · "No public demonstrations shall be _sponsored by· this Club. · 
7. "Any failure to observe the above .limitations_ of activities shall result, ­ipso facto, in the ,immediate and perm".' anent dissolution of the Club without hope .of future resurrection. This is·. · 
-the -basic and essential-point of under­
•standing between the Club organizers · and · the University and is .accepted 
~L~O!_~~r_tles as not renegotiab~ --for -the _future. (u-nderlining·-ours). It should be transparent that the accep­
tance _of Section 7 was forced upon the cl~bs as a condition of the coming into hem~.­
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
_ 
Dear Sir: 
The policy _of the Voice con­cerning integration a.t'"Notre Dame andinparticularthe article submitted by Buck McFaddenen­titled "Civil Rights: Room for Critisism, or Color Commitment Green" bears no resemblance to reason or reality. That any stu­dent · should have an equal chance to attend the university is an accepted right, and even that ·in­dependent groups such as CONE can encourage any special group of qualified students to· apply for admission and financial· assist­ance is reasonable. But demand­ing that the administration take on the added expense of both recruitment and expanded finan­cial aid when the majority of .applicants are· already turned away' not for lack· of standards 
l . k f f lb f
ut or ac o · aci ities is a -ludicrous proposal. 

! 
Mr. McFadden accuses the ad­ministration of hypocrisy for• 1-/ stating inability to furnish fi­
r 
t nancial ai~ for Negro applicants ."when they need it, without mak­' ing them compete with the whole scholarship -group.'' However, . for at least two of the past three 
'years rising costs have forced for the most part crude and·sex.:. . the university to raise student ually obsessed, _4)thatBob'scar­tuition $100. I am sure-that if toons were drawn too ·_large and 
· h · · 

t he university ad the money had to· be'phoi:ographically· re­-_ available to f:M..ce ·a prog·ram· duced at sub~~"tial ·cost to the·
I• ......... .,....,,. 
.rec_ommended -by · CONE they ·_Leprechaun, ·and .-5) that most. would also be able to aid the · of the cartoons Bob submitted .­existing stu~ent body, . were stolen from _other maga­
applied to members of all races one at a time. l) Mr, McClelland who apply for· admission. Dis_; · speaks of firing Bob as art editor, 
crimination does not become good 
just by favoring the Negro over 
the white. Lei: CONE seek inde­
pendent· groups to finance their 
needy Negro applicants, And let 
the university admit the most 
qualified applicants of each year 
regardless of race; 
Richard A. Walters 
464 Morrissey 
Dear Sir: 

. Mr. McClelland' s letter on Bob -Farmer's relation to the Lepre­chaun seems to me to be llll­
fortunate at best. I have worked·. out. 3) 1 was working with the for the Leprechawi ·under editors Leprecharm this year -and I saw
the work that-he submitted, In
Dumit, Twohey, and McClelland, and so I think I have some basis my• opinion. it was not crude or for writing this'letter. · sexually obsessei' On the con-
Mr. McClelland makes five · 
points in his letter: 1) that• Bob Farmer was fired ·and_ did not quit, 2) that because Bob was fired he, decided to publish his .own· humor ·magazine, 3) that Bob submitted cartoonsthai:were 
interested, differing ideological factions within the clubs moderate their eventual position, so that in -many cases there's really little choice between the two. If any interest is to emerge, the issue's must be more clearly defined and the lines of battle drawn. Perhaps aware of this, the administration has banned more activist groups which might pi'Ovide such a choice, like .the Americans for Demo• cratic Action or the Young Americans for Freedom. 
The Vice President for Student Affairs claims that applications for a club char­ter (necessary for all campus organiza­tions). _are_ t~eated. individually, on their 
own merits~ lt is apparent; ·ho~ever, char_.~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!~~~~:!!:!!~~!!!!!!!~~~ 
such acti:vist gro'ups. are systematicaUy 
denied. such· a charter. Four· years-ago, a 
. group attempted-to form a YAF federation 
'.on campus; and was squelched. Adminis0 tration officials deny that this ever oc­curred. ­The administration is unquestionably leery of associating its na1tt: with any political: pos1tion •. It would: seem to be ; possible, however, t<:> allow \':AF, ADA and the. like on campus, without endors­ing the _clubs the~selves·. Virtually every .university of comparable prestige, includ~ ing Harvard and many Catholic universi­t_ies sanctions· them. · Thesystem as it now stands is more than farcical-·._it's dangerous.-The clubs that . do exist are effectively hamstrung by un­reasonable -regulations, and_ the few' Stu• dents who might be interested in forming ·-activist organizations -aren'callowed to· do so. So the majority of the student body remains blissfully unconcerned. If Notre Dame were Shangri La, it might not make any difference. -But.·. 
But Bob never did any W()rk as sarily. have a substantial increase art editor and so firing himfrom in our Negro enrollment as athat post ·has· no meaning. . 
prerequisite. I do -not say that· As ·to the firing of 
_such ·a numerical increase per_ Bob from . the magazine . alto­se will effect meaningul camp­
gethei:-, I was not present when us integration, However, I do hold it happened and so I don't know ------------------------­whether he was fired or whether THE 
he quit. 2) This point simply is not true. Bob. was planning a· 

•••:


bigger and better humor maga­zine while he· was · still submit­ting work·. to the Leprechaun. l know this because he approached me at that time (along with several others) to see whether I would be interested in helping 
trary I th0Ught it was ·well done. 
4) 1 think this is the only valid point of -Mr. McClelland' s letter. If the Leprediaun cannot afford to reduce Bob's drawings 
theY certainly have every right -Sports Editor•••• ·, ••• , ••••••••••• , • ~ •••Bob Campbell . 
to not publish them. If Sarri had stuck to this point he·woultl have been all right. 5) _As to most of Bob's work being copied there 
is doubt, I know· that inuch· of ­Bob's work is absolutely origi.~
· 

nal. 1 have -seen Bob borrow a
f · · ­

ace or a pose and place ft in his cartoon but l have never seen 

·wliy yes, my son1 politioa.l spa.thy is an_ "approve4. _ 

tradition•••• 

Cam,·pus Integrari___on__-or Peacef-.1l Co-existence
;J"' 
··. By Buck McFadden· 
The University of Notre Dame is_ indeed desegregated,•· but by no 'means is it integrated. ·As Fr, JohnLeBauve, s.v.D.--him-· self of Negro, French andAmer­ican Indian descent--observed in _his_ '_ recent talk on campus, "Peaceful co-existence· in the _United Si:ate·s is not enough;'; nor is it enough in our University. Twenty-five Negroes in a stu­dent body of approximately 6,600 students do'not create much of a Negro "presence" on campus. It is entirely possible to visit our campus and be unaware that 
'tliei·e-really-are Negro· students among us; furthermore, it is possible--tragically so--for the 
vast majority of our white stu­dents to spend four years in our· University without once having a meaningful encounter with a Negro on a university level. The little "integration" which does exist on· campus is all too often of the Monday through Friday class -time variety, a rather shallow relationship at best. 
I. submit that any change in this unfortunate situation must neces­
OF NOTRE DAME 
Published weekly during the academic year by student of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; 
~~B~~ . 
Board of Review.,., •••••Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C. Minch Lewis Editol'. · ' B b L kin­
· • • • • -. • • • ' • • • • ' • ' ' • • -• ' • • • • ' • ' • • • o ump s
Managing Editor. • , • • • , ••••••••••••••Lou Bartoshesky Editorial Board. ; •••••Jim Cavnar, Joe Perilli, Tom Anderson News Editor, • , •••••• , • , •••••••• ; , •••••••Dan Murray News Staff. , • , , , , • ,Earl Guertin, Ray Faery, Bob Scheuble, John 
Sibley, Dick Veit, Steve Feldhaus, Rick Schleef, Mike Gorham, Rick Kalamaya, Tom·Long, Buck McFadden, Don Pelner. Latanae Parker Carl Littrell, Bob Mrmdhenk, John Mulligan, Al Fong-Tom, Bili Nage, · Steve Rodgers, John l\1asley, Mike Lonergan,· Karen Keres · 
Assistant Sports Editor. , ·, , , • , , • , , , ~., •••••Bill Dwyre Sports Staff. -• •••• ~ •••••• ,Dan Ferguson, Bill Brown, Frank Ma~sco, Jere Locke, Quentin Macmanus,. Tom Sullivan, Mike Granger, John Corrigari, Steve Jurowski, ChuckVe_rgara, w. Hudson 
I

Gi es . · · Art Edlto'r . -­
. . • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • , ·• , , , .• , ,Howard Dooley 
Business Manager

-. • ' • • •. • • • ·• • • • • • • • ••• , , ••••• ,Ken Socha . 
Advertising Salesman••. , , ••••••••. , .••• , . ,John Pavlic Advertising Assistant. , • , • •••• , , , • , • , , • · ,J ob:n Guzauskas 
. that. untii the Negrolfpresence" on campus is made absolutely unavoidable, we will not have · meaningful integration for the simple reason .that, the campus­wide . individual confrontation necessary to trueintegrationwiiI be impossible•. Given a contin­uation of "the present situation, there simply wouldn't be enough Negroes to go around! 
True integration riecessarily 
· entails integration on the social leve_l as well as onotherlevels. Should our .Administration com­~i; -it~lt.to_true_!ntegration-=-_..,._--­
as I pray it will-_;and substan­~fally increase our Negro enroll-· 
..:lnt, then in good conscience it must use its influence to have St. Mary's make a similar increase in the number of Negro students enrolled there. Othernise, the crucial social integration would be impossible. . . 
(NOTE: Granted that the girl situation is unsatisfactory to most of us, the fact remains that whereas any given white N,D. student can try for any. one' of 1,200 white S.MC. students, any given Negro N.D. student can try for _any one of only 4 Negro S.MC. _students--hardly an 1 equitable situation.) · 
(Continued on Page. 3) ._ 

The gentlemen of CONE demand zines. The last three of these Iifm 'steal a cartoon as such. Copy Editor•••••••••••• , ••• , •••• , •••• ,Bob Mlllldhenk ' 
I 
racial discrimination, and· they were given as reasons why Boh Layout Editor•••• ·~ • , •••••••• , , • , • • • • , Dennis Kern I -demand the University of Notre. was fired. I have disagreements. Gerald Rauch Assistan~ Layout Editor, -• ; ~ • , , •••• , • ;:. :. ,•:.Steve Vogel 
t . Dame as an accomplise. I would .on all of these points except the 305 Dillon Layouf Staff. • , , •, • ·• , •••••••• , ••Ed Baker, Dave Griffin rather see_a fair and equal policy foui;th one so I will take them Proofreader, ••.••• , , •• , •••• , , •• ~·.,~,..,Jim Medeiros 
/· 



But I digress. Returning to i\lodem European History, let ti~ now examine that C\'cr-popular fayoritc, France. . 
Foth.er Cy Speltz, C.S.C., N.D. '59, and his fellow . ~ France, us we all know, is diYided into several Departments. missionaries in' Uganda have. their hands foll, if not with There is the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Gns elephants, o! least with. a most challenging task in · their allll ,Yater Department, and the Bureau of Weights and r.lc:is-' 
East African diocese of Fort P~rtal. Uni/er Bishop· Vincent 
urcs. There is also .l'lfadame·Pompadour, hut that is a dirty story and is taught only to graduate students. . . 
McCauley, ·c.s.C., '30, they. help serve the ,pfritual -and· Finally we take up Italy-the 11ewcst Euro11ctm nation. Itah­
. very often !he material -needs :of 120,000 Catholics..in 
did not bccor11c a unified state uritil 184SwhenGaribaldi, Cavour, 
. a population of half a million people. 

and Vietor Emmanuel t.hrcw three coins in the TreYi Fountain. This lovely gesture rn enchanted all or' Europe that Metternich trmlcd Pnrma to Talleyrand for l\Ind Ludwig of Bavaria. Then
D. t :::: s~:i:a~:~:i~:t~;:i;:r::m_r.~n;~:•p~::;h~:;t:~ 
. missions in Africa, East Pakistan, Latin America. University . everybody waltzed till dawn and then, tired but happy, the:( studenls and graduates wishing to ioin them start right started the Thirty Years War. This later became known as Pitt her~ ori--campus in St. Joseph Hall, or in lhe s·,ath'ers',. the Younp;cr. , • . • ' Postu.late in Watertown,. Wisconsin. ··If you're thinking of Space docs not pem1it me to tell you any more about l\Iodern 
European History. Aren't you glad?
a missionary vocation -or 
.. © 1065, :llax Scbuim:i.n

of the Holy Cron Fathers ,and. Brothers -visit or. ph;ne 
* * * 
(284-6385 or 284-6497): 

And aren't you glad you tried Personna® Blades? You'll-be,. FATHER WILLIAM MELODY, c.s.c,, ST: JOSEPH HALL et·tm gladder when you try theperfect companion to Personna:. • new Bt!rma Shm:e®. It soaks rings around any other lathe_r! 



Ch~cago CIC 
Needs Help 
The CatholicInterracial Council of Chicago is requesting volun• . teers to work on several civil rights projects in that city, while collections are being taken for March's Mississippi project. 
An organizational meeting will be held next Monday with the time and place to be announced. The· project is being organized by the same group .that worked . on civil rights projects in Chi­cago over the midsemester .,; 
In other ciVil rights actiVity, a col_Iection is being taken up to compensate English Professor Donald Costello for injuries on his car which was used in the l'vlississippi project. His vehicle was the one brought to Mis­sissippi over the spring break when a group of Notre Dame stu­dent traveled there to rebuild bombed churches, 
An accident during the trip caused considerable damage to the car, and Costello lost ap­proximately $700. Insurance covered the remaining losses. Father Hesburgh has agreed to match what can· be raised from students andfaculty. Solicitations 
.~\ ~,

are being-made in the halls tllis 
. _;:~~;.:~'..~,,: L ..

week, and contributions can be 
made to Joe Ahearn, Box 172, An Irish sno~man in a,ction at. the. Frosh-Soph Formal last Friday Notre Dame. All further pro­night. Prom activity continues tbis weekend with Junior P.rom, and ceeds will go • to the · summer with the Senior Week blowout planned for the following week. (Photo 
. by Mike Ford) · · .. 
. projects. 
Three Penny Opera to Ope~·Tomorrow 
The record -breaking musical one of the "must sees" tourist frequented by the show's under­hit, The Threepenny Opera, will attractions in New York.· world deniz.ens --except possibly be presented by the University The raffish underworld of early the setting in Newgate Prison, Theatre at Notre Dame as its Victorian London is the setting where the gallows await the con­spring musica1May6-9andl3-15. of The Threepenny Opera as scienceless MacHeath until he is 
This is the bitter-sweet· show adapted inl9'i8byBertoldBrecht, reprieved by a spoofing twist of · filled with Kurt Weill song-hits for Berlin audiences, from John the authors. which played 2,611 continuous Gay's London !lit of 1728 called Others in the cast are Virginia performances in New York to The Beggar's Opera. Marc Blitz. Manthe, Joan Werber Tweedell, 
-· surpass the nms of all previous stein's 1954 English adaptation of Dan Roberto, Al Dunn, Terry · musicals•.For six"'.'and-a;..quarter the German,..tells..the. story_ of a Moriarty, _Steve Way, John Shee-_ years The Threepenny·o~ra w~s larcenous hero, MacHeath,tand han, Jack Luby, Bob Marquis, Pat his misadventures _in romance Kelly, Al Cruz., Barbara Morris,In.tegration _ ·and crime. He's known as Mack Doris Wilke, . Pat Harvey, the . Knife, and the hit-parade Cathleen Carey, Terry Francke 
. (Cont. from pg. 2) ballad about him which opens the · and George Flyrm. 
It is true that.our Administra--: show has been heard around the Fred W. Syburg directs this tion cannot make one individual ,vorld. DavidClennonwillportray sardonic musical expose of the accept another indiVidual, How-. the jaunty thief who weds and de-corruptions . that plague all ever, it can work to create an: serts Denise Coakley as Polly countries and all times. Dr. atmosphere which is conductive Peachum, a girl whose parents Charles Biondo is musical di­atmosphere which is conducive ·run a shop for outfitting thieving rector, and Rev. Patrick Ma­to meaningful indiVidual en-· beggars. . loney, C.S.C., is vocal coach, counters pregnant with the pos-The shop specializing in beg-John. Patrick Hart designed the sibility of white and Negro stu-gars' props, presided overbythe sets. · ' 
. dents mutually accepting each . hard-crusted Mr, Peachum and Tickets .will go .on sale for The other as individual human be-his spouse, played by David Gar-Threepenny Opera at the Wash­ings, i.e. true integration. I be-. rick and Carolyn Jaskunas, will mgton Hall box office on May 4, · 
lieve that to the extent our Ad­ministration fails to establish this atmosphere, it is to the same extent depriving us of the OP­portunity to fully realize our­selves 'as mature Christian men., Thus, Notre Dame may be a Great Catholic University, but it is not a great Christian univer­sity, I am · sad that this is the case; I am. sadder still that our Administration seems to remain blind to the fate· of Scribes and 
.. Pharisees, be the most respectable setting Mail orders are being accepted in the procession of gaudy scenes now,. 
Army Team Wins Three 
The Army ROTC drill team, On April 17, they placed third in "Irish Marauders," has taken the John J. Pershing Drill Meet. three· trophies in· drill compe­Cadet ·L. Colonel · William tition this year•. Predebon commands the Maraud­
They won second place in both ers, and Captain Thomas Kelly the University of Illinois Invi­is their advisor. tational Drill Meet, March 13, The team is now preparing for and the Heart of the Nation meet the Annual Tri-Military Meet, at Bradley University, April 3. May 9, ~t 6:00 P. M,, in Stepan 
Eight Win NSF Grant 
Eight Notre Dame seniors, and Ronald W. Sagerson, biochem­graduate students have been a­istry; Robert G. Stewart, me­warded National Science Founda­chanical engineering; and Donald tion pre-doctoral graduate fel­F. Zeller, electricalengineering. 
lowships for 1965-66. 
The NSF fellowship winnersand their specialized fields include: Theodore J. Barth, mathematics; John J. Hirschfelder, mathmat­ics; Anthony C. Hughes, matre.;. matics; and Dean A. l\1alencik, life sciences. 
Also receiving fellowships were John L. Moschner, electronics; 
an· c·.
f§ . .th/
~ -. M 

~~· .impug Mai!lholman~ 
·-~-".··. . (By the author of"J?.ally_R?und the FlalJ, Boys!",··,>.. · "Dobie Gilli.~," etc.) 
IS EUROPE? 
College life is such a busy one. whnt with learning the ~Iaxixe, 
attending public exccutious, and.walking our cheetahs, that per­
force we find our~elvcs sometimes neglecting our studies. Thcri.•­
fore thb column, normally n vehicle for innocent tomfoolery, 
will oecnsionally forego levity to offer a quick snr\'cy course in 
one of the lcari1ed di;;cipliucs. Toda~-, for au opener, we will dis­
cuss l\lod!'rii European History. . 
Strictly defined, 1'.fodern European Hilltory cover:; the hh;tory 
of Europ(' from Januar~· t, l!l!i-1., to the prc;;cnt. However, in 
order to provide !'rnploym_ent for more teachers, the course has 
been moved huck:to the Age of Pericles, or the Henaiss:mce, us 
it is better known :i::;, · . · 
The single most important fact to remember about :\Iodcrn 
European History is the emergence of Prussia. As we all kno\\·, . . Prussia was originall); called Russia. The "P" was purchased from Persia in 1874 for S24 and ::\Ianhattan Island. This later 
beeamc knomi as Guy Fawkes Day. 
Persia without a "P" was of course called Ersia. This so em­
barrassed the: natives that they changed the name of the 
country to Iran. This led to n rash of name changing. 1'.lcsopo­
tamia · became Iraq, Schleswig-Holstein bceamc Saxe-Coburg, 
Bosnia-Herzegovina became Cleveland. There was even talk 
about changing the name of stahlc old England, lnit it-was for­
gotten when the little princes esc;aped from the Tower and in­
vented .lames Watt. This.later he{'ame known as the :\lis.~ouri 
Compron;ise. 


Oul!f /ai;t ii-eek he il1renlc;I the German slwrt-lmirctl pointe1·. 
:\leanwhilc,Johann Gutenberg was quietlyim·entingthc print­ing press, for which we may all he grateful, hclie,;c you me. Why grateful? I'll tell you why: Because without Gutenberg's im·en­tion you would not have this newspaper to rPml and·you might nenr learn that Pcrsonna Stuinlr_,s fitcel Razor Blades are now arnilnble in t,rn varietics..::...thc regular double-edge blade we 
· hm·e nil come to know uml love, and the new Pcrsonnu Injeclor Blade. Users of injector razors have grown moi·osc in recent years,·even sullen, mu! who. eau blame them? How would you feel if you were denied the speed und comfort and durability and truth and beauty of Pcrsonna Stainless Steel shaving? Sot ver.r jolly, I'll wager! But injector sha\'ers may now rejoicc-:-indecd all shavers may-for whether you remo,·e your whiskers rcg­ulnrly or iujcctorly, there is a Pcrsonna blade for you....:.a Per­smmu Stainless Steel Bbde which will give you more luxury shn\'cs than Beep-Beep or any other brand you might name. If by chance you don't ngree, the makers of Persomm will gladly buy you a paek of any brand you think is better. · 
Yes, friends, we may all be grateful to Joharin Gutenberg for inventing the means to spread this great news about Pcrsonua. · _The next time_you're in Frankfurt-am-?\Inin, why don't you drop in and say th:mks to. i\lr. Gutenberg? He is cldcrly--!0S years lust birthday-but still quite active in his laboratory, Only .last week he invented the German short-lmired pointer. · .. 

Cyr's Barber Shop 

MICHIANA'S LEADING 
BARBER SHOP 
100-102 South Main St. 

Opposite Court House 

South Bend, .Indiana 



3 Heisman Trophy Winners to Test Varsity 
By Bill Dwyre grotmd gainer scorect once in added much to the offensive punch ed the Whites with a more in-Rassas, and Tony Carey return. . The first test for the current Saturday's scrimmage on a 20-i n their new formed capacity experienced line in front of him Backing them up are Ken Ivan Notre Dame varsityfootball team yard run, and Eddy scored three· as blockers for the· most part, and still managed to show the and Pete Andreotti, both of whom may be one of their toughest times as the Blues ran up a 38-In the race for the quarterback dash and color of a good quarter-saw much action last year, An­tests, 0 s~ore over the White~, In this job two men seem· to hold the back, Zloch will be a senior next dreotti, along with injuredfresh-The variscy will face three scnmma.ge, the play ofhneback-lea~ In Saturday's scrimmage year, while Schoen will be a man back Rocky Bleier are ex­Heisman trophy winners and ers Jim Lynch, Arunas Vasys, Bill Zloch quarterbacked the sophomore, . pected to be the top reserves for seven fromer All-Americans in and Ron Jeziorslil was outstand-Blues and did an effective job Parsegh.ian's most experienced Wolski and Eddy next year, while the annual ·Old Time.rs Game ing. In ~he offenSive_ line; ends of mixing the slants of Wolski. personnel is in the defensive re-Ivan will p~obab~ysharetheplace Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, Don Gmitter and Phil Sheridan and Eddy, Tom Schoen-engineer-condary where Tom Longo, Nick kicking duties wi~h Joe Azzarro, Heisman Trophy winners Leon ,.,,.._ _,....,....., This Saturday's Old Timer's Ha.rt, Johnny Lattner, and Jolm game may have the added in-Huarte will combine with other terest of the return of George former Irish All -American Izo and Red Mack who put on an choices Al Ecuyer, Neil Worden, aerial show in last year's 30-23 Jim Carroll, and Jack Snow to loss to the varsity. It is not cer­form a very for:rnidable Old tain that they will play Saturday, Timer's team, but if they do it is unlikely that 
Besides these greats, Old they could steal the show from Timer's coach Bill Early will the likes of Huarte and Snow. have the services of John Meyer,· The Old Timers will counter-Tom Kostelnik. Ken Maglicic, . act any Zloch orSchoen offerings . Joe Farrell, John Atamian, Jim with an outstanding defensive Snowden, Joe Kantor, and Norm back of· their own. Returning to Nicola from last year's National roam the defensive backfieldwill 
Ranking team. be Bill Pfieffer, Pfieffer led the This game,villbethelastchance Irish in tackles in 1%3, and he for. many to see the recordbreak-may be joined ondefense by form­ing passing combination of John er offensive starAngeloDeberio, Huarte to_ Jack Snow, It also Also, making his 16th. straight could be the last aerial display appearance to bolster the Old of this year, _for according to Timer's forces will be Gus Ci-last Saturday's varsity intra-felli. Cifelli will play the tackle 
• squad scrimmage Are. Par-position, which he played on the seghian's 1%5 offensive will be 1949 national charri.pionshipteam; orientated to the ground attack. Coach Earley will also have the 
Parseghian wi!l counteract the·· third and fourth team varsity passing of Huarte Saturday with members available for service 
the outstanding running of half-Ara bawls a few words of "encouragement" to with the Old Timers, 
. first-string quarterback Bill Zloch during the 
backs Bill Wolski and Nick Eddy,. Saturday game scrimmage in the stadium. ( Photo Game time for Saturday's con-
Wolski, last year's leading by Mike Ford) · test is 1:30, 






Hardy to Join Three Sport Monogram Club; Added toElite Group Headed by Lujack 
W. Hudson Giles . . . Kevin chose Notre Dame anc. · · · Kevin Hardyisacoach'sdream-his story has now developed to in three sports, When the base-be more of a legend. He hascov­
ball season ends later this month ered over fifty thousand miles By C. J. Vergara he-joins the exclusive three mon-this past year in his travels, He 
..---. ·_ 

ogram chili, a select group head-has known fame, and the cheers 
ed by former AH-American and of the .. crowd .are something he
New Job for-Sandy. 

All-Pro quarterback, John Lu-will not soon forget, But glory's 
jack, Wearing a Notre Dameuni-grind has not been an easy'one,
Several months ago Ara Parseghian explained to Alex Bonvechio 
form is somethingmostboysonly. In the_ past nine months (since·
that he was going to try and develop another wide open attack, Ara 
dream about, but for Kevin it is August 20th) Kev has been ·home 
thought Sandy's arm could be the key. Sandy was game and agreed 
almost an everyday occurance. to his native Oakland, California 
to drop a course and hang around romantic South Bend another year,· 
A three letter winner also in · for only two days at Christmas, 
. Well, .after several weeks of juggling, Ara hasn't come up with the 
high school (baseball, football, Sports can also be cruel -Mr, 
necessary "skilled" players to fill the Huarte-Snow void. Last Fri­Hardy
and basketball), the rather large Hardy has learned that all too 
day Coach Parreghian informed his troops the marchto the top would legia,te ca~er are somet_hingtha
.Mr, Hardy is an above average well. He has tested bitter defeat
be on the gr01.md. . · · . -. will never be replaced.
golfer (high eighties) and a skill-in Souther California and agony
search for split end and long bali quarterback became is Business Admini­
As the a ed high-broard diver, The almost in Houston at the NCAA tourna­Kevin a 
history, Sandy, not being the best ball handling-running quarterback, stration major andthere isa good 
perfect combination of siz.e 'and ment, This is part of sports and 
decided they could find themselves another place kick holder. Actu­chance that his first business
speed, Kevin looks born to play Kevin Hardy, the competitor, ac­
ally, Sandy will be performinga valuabletaskfor Coach Parseghian' s experience will be over his own
defensive tackle, His agilitymys-cepts the good and the bad. 
staff next year. He will be using his knowledge of the game as a pro contract, No one doubts that
tified everyone throughout the To coin a phrase, "Wha~ Makes 
scout. For the past four years Sandy Bonvechio has given much of he will be a professional ath­
baskeball reason and there are Kevin nm?" It is the contest,
himself to Notre Dame football, and he will be partly responsible lete; the big question is in what 
.few who have seen him swing a the challenge of competition
for any success this year's team achieves·, sport. (He's got the scouts' eyes
bat that will doubt his coordina-,which makes sports meaningful; 
popping already in both football
tion. Strangely enough, Notre "beating the man on yourhead"­
and baseball), He has no per­
Dame was the only school that either on the line,· from the com­
Three Yards and a Cloud of Dust 
sonal preference right now but
awarded him a football scholar-er, or in the batter's box. He likes 
looks more to his remainingcol­
Does Ara's decision to go with a nmning game and an adequate ship, All the others -and the defensive football because 11l'd 
legiate career,

passing attack means we_'re back in the days of 3 yards and a cloud list covers quite a few including rather hit than be hit", Team­
Next Fall brings a new year, a
of dust? Never. Ara stays up thinking too late. Creativity and imag-Stanford, California, Navy and work gives him a true sense of 
new sport, and .a new challenge,
ination are his tools. · Davidson .:. were either interest-satisfaction. The relationship 
Notre Dame will see a lot more
As he's said on many occasions,• "A strong passing game keeps ed primarily in his basketball or with teammates, coaches and the 
of Kevin Hardy, · 

the defense honest and makes it easier for a back like Eddy to baseball skills, numerous associations of a col­.. break away," -· .. He might not be able to come up with a strong passing game (I'm Irish Come From Behind .. For Two Wins 
sure he'll be able to work Schoe~ Gater (Zloch), or Pergine into at 
By Mike Read On Saturday, Notre Dame again However, it was a fine running
least a consistently adequate passer,), but no one will be throwing 
came from behind to tie the game catch by John Musto in the 9th
Getting fine relief pitchingfrom
up 8-gap defenses (strictly for stopping the short rush} against an 
at 5-5 in the 6th inning, and then inning when Bradley had 2 on and 
Bob Bentley .and Ray Zolnowski, 
Ara Parseghian offense, He has too many devices to call on. Effec­
went ahead in the 8th on a home none· out that preserved the lead 
and clutch hitting from John
tive screens to just about everybody -halfbacks, fullbacks, ends, 
run by Tom Szajko, which proved · and gave Ray Zolnowski win num­
Musto, l'vtark Gonring and Tom. 
eyen some deal where the quarterback winds up taking a pass. With 
to be the final margin of victory. ber one for the year, · 
his two tough tight ends, he has look-ins and short out patterns to . Szajko, Notre Dame managed to take two one-run victories from
keep enemy linebackers busy, · 
the Bradley Braves this past
The bomb is exciting and gets points quickly but a good ball handler 
Friday and Saturday to boost their ·
who can delivera shortaccuratepasscanalso get the job done, We've 
season record to a very -respec­
. got the horses to make a short game go, Over the years, Woody 
table 14-7 • 

. Hayes hasn't done too badly, Can you imagine how effective the strong 
In the Friday encounte-.·, which
game coupled with Ara's imagination could be? Even his intricate 
lasted 3 1/2 hours, a ioingle by
cross bucks and blocking assignments. are baffling (Right, Rip?), 
Mark. Gonring in the bottom of 
the 11th. inning drove home two

Trippers to 'Witness Revival. 
runs to give Notre Dame a 7-6 
victory and reliever Bob Bentley 
The greatest of all football rivalries is,being renewed next season. 
his. first victory. of the season.
The em~tion,, gambling, and spirit -aroused by the N,D,-Army game It · was the second time . in the
was s~ mt~mse the game was discontinued in order to let the rivalry 
· cool off.· _ . . . ·game that the Irishhad to come 
Well, it's back and the planwas a flop, I can't speak for the bookies· •from behind, In the eighth, Notre Dame trailed 5-1 as they came
h_ut as far .as spirit goes -the game is already sold out. The onl~ · tickets ava1!able to students will be through the trip. This ts one 
to bat. However, they rallied for 
4 runs, behind John Musto's
. game a N,D. football fan wouldn't miss. If you're not so hot on foot­ball, buy a trip ticket, ·and you might be able to scalp your game 
triple, to tie _the game at 5-5 . . ' and send it into extra innings,
1:fcket for the prlce of the trip. Interest is just that keen. 


· Sports Shorts· 
Sports writers like nothing more 
than the opportunity to dressupa 

routine article by making some , 
comparison to past records or teams. Last week Notre Dame's Publicity Director Charlie Calla­. han took advantage of this fact 
in a press release on the 1965 ,',,..·,.. ·,. "-•--•... ,..· . • .
lri h · I d rib" v Jyy, '/ '' '//-. ,;;,'/,'(
s tenrus team. n. esc mg ~~~';2./1,g~< (.~'.'/ l/ ~~;:{1,'.'{ · 
the teams prospects the release . , .r ,~}'':,-..rf,~"/..'<J-•., 
stated, "Many students oncamp-~x,.•;,·•.~.·•,'.,:; .-1'·
...1"~~y<."~[.·-..,;,/,..',,.'; :;:~{ij 

us are comparing the present ;;, ~5,:,~:m~·-c#ly:;r,//:x . · v .:X 
team to the 1959 team that tied 
Tulane for the NCAA Champion­
" Tr; '59 team was probably the best in Notre Dame history. Lead by Max Brown, they,wentthrough the season without a single de­feat, At the NCAA tournament, Brown got to the semifinals be­fore losing to Whitney Reed.Not­re Dame's number one doubles team ·of Brown and Bill Hein­becker also reached the semis before bowing out. Don· Ralph and Ron Schoenberg also con­tributed points toward the vie-
Shi 
tory. · 
In building a case for the com­
parison; Callahanpointedoutthat 
both the '59 and '65 teams start­
ed the season off by winning the 
Cherry. Blossom Tournament, He 
even go(Coach Torri, Fallon to 

:say that, "Potentially this team 
could be as· go~d as the' 1959 
team, but, the_titing la'cki~g is 
maturity.''· ' · -. . . 

.· It appearsto this observer, how­-ever,·tliai·there are a fewother 
things lackini. In fact, the odds 
against the '65 or for that mat­
ter the '66 team repeating the 
Championship performance of 
that '59 team seem unsunnount­
able, 
Callahan's enthusiasm lies in 

··the appearance of two of the best 
division). What is more they have been . playing doubles togethersince they wereIS.Before Reiser . was hurt last week and lost for the rest of the season, he and Brown had not lost a doubles _match all year. They have also won the Doubles National Junior Indoor Tournament in St. Louis twice (Jajit Singh, a Notre Dame 
freshmen won the 16 yr, singles title this year.) In addition to Brown and Reiser, Pedro Ros­sello, a junior,' and Raul Katt­hain, a senior,. have been play­

· · . ing well since the spring trip to Mexico, · · 
And as Callahan further pointed _ out, . the .team is winning. Even with the loss of Reiser, they should finish out the season with-. out another defeat. 
But all of this is still not enough 
three speed. Bill Gallager won the ten speedevent. In a special race between tandum bikes, Bob Chiles and Bill Cleary placed first while the combination of ·.Hugh. O'Brien and Barry Mc­
._______..;...___'i 
. j Cyr's Barber Shop I 
':MICHIANA'S LEADING I ' BARBER SHOP : I , 100-10_2 So.u. th_Main St•.. I 
Qpposlte Court House.. 





l:~~~~~~~J_J·
. . . .. 
~t.'.''lJ-.;t..•:t:,·,· .. · .·'(,...···.~.y.. I...;/.z~·.. <t:..;1)'.:,
... ..·.,.tl.:i'--<"I .. :x:aXY,J'll-7 .J : ,;,. t.x.•'v..'t•.t(,.·»··.·.,;.•.:.-,6.".,1.'~-...:_•,'.·_,v....'· ,,.:,;.l ,. .t , ' , ,. , ­
.,y;tt,,0',,X:~:1/4/,,.~ ;;_:> 

·Masconi Here
Pedro Ro;sello with a backhand in practice for' th; North"i:veste~n · 
meet. ( Photo by Mike Ford) 

, to· stir-.memories of the '59 or of _regainning the NCAA Title, Northwestern' s Clark Graebner, a U.~. Davis Cupper, made this ·pretty obvious when he walloped BiH Brown last week 6-1, 6-0, It is not that Brown cannot play in·. the. same league with· the Graebner; rather it's that he probably will not get a chance to. Brown has a lot of tenms•equiP­ment. qiven the opportunity to develop he might become one of the nations better players, but the odds are that he won't, Much the same could be said of Reiser, Rossello, and-Kattliain. Why? 
First of all, it must be under­stood that this is not just aNotre Dame. problem•.Former Davis 
sophomore prospects to hit the , ·. Cup Captain Billy Talbert as-:. campus since Ralph and Hein-serts that there are more good becker in '59. The two are Bill junior ,tennis players in the u.s. Brown arid Gary Reiser, Brown . than in any other_ country, but and Reiser were both bighlyratecf · that they get lost in the shuffle as Juniors (the 18 yrs. and under. from Junior to men's tennis. 
T~ere. are ~veral reasons for this. Once m college, a playeroften loses interest in tennis. Practice can be a pain in the 
.. neck when you have an exam the next day. Secondly, except for a 
· few spectacular cases the U.S. does not _have the prog~am t~t some nations have to bnng their young players along. 
· If, for instance, Brown, Ros­
sello, Reiser, or Katthain or for that matterSingh wanted to really build up their game, they would have to play from June until September in all of · the major tourneys acrqssthe country, This would not only be time-consum­ing, but very costly. Neither Reiser, Brown, or Rossello are playing any extensive summer tour. Reiser, for one, will pro­bably undergo surgery. (he has 

Ward Takes Grand Award 
Last Sunday's 2nd annual bike Namara was disqualified due to races, sponsored by the Hall Pre~ · a brok~n axle. A special awardsidents Council; providedanadd-· was presented to Ed, Ward, .who
ed bit of excitement to the prom entered three races, wrecked twoweekend. . Eighteen riders com­bicycles and did not finish one.peted in the various divisions. 
race.

Bruce Quinn won the one speed and Rich Cullen was a repeat ----------­winner from last year in the.,. PUBLIC CAFETERIA t 
South Dining Hall l i · · t' ' 
. _ chipped bones in his knee). Only Tonight ·Willie Mosconi will Singhplanstotouralotthissum-. demonstrate his skills at the 
mer. The summer touris a must; billiard table in the Student C.ent­for it is only in stiff competition er, Mosconi, who is a five-time can they hope to improve. world champ, will perform at This brings up another point, 7:00 and 9:00 on the second floor. as a rule good .college tennis is Also Paul Hahn will present his centered in the south and west;. "Wizard ·of Clubs" Golf Show not in the north. Thelongwinters Saturday at 12:00 on i:he first 
· · generally force the Ralston's and tee of the golf course. the McKinley's to colleges like USC and Trinity, where they can 
Blitzkrieg

play year round. As a result the competition in the North is not as tough. · Joe Sommers, newly appointed 
All of this is accentuated by the. Social Commissioner, and Pat conditions here at.Notre Dame. Holland, SMC Social Commis-The lack of indoor facilities sioner, have announced that the makes thelongwintersevenlong-jointly-sponsored shuttle buses. 
er. Then there are the practice to the Warren Dunes State Park ·. sessions t~e~se1ves, The core (better known as Tower Hill) will of practice sessions .in the past: continue for the rest of May.The .have been "challenge matches". buses for either stags orcouples In~tead_ of o~anized and planned. on Sundays, May 9, 16, and 23, dnlls m which the team . works will leave Notre Dame at ll:00 on different strokes, play-:rs · a.m. and return to campus around 
challenge each other for .P?Sitlon 
on the team. The compet1t1ve at-
mo~phere challenge match seems to hmder, rather than provide the development of the player. He is not requir.ed to work on funda­~e~~als of the g~1:1e but m~st be · up forcompetitionatallnmes, 
ONE WAY 
TRAILERS BERTZ UlIAUL 
232-1444 Please Call Early for Information and 
.Reservations. 
. . . 
BERTZ·U HAUL 302 Lincolnway East 232--1444 

SODA FOUNTAIN .t Mon. thru Fri. -f t 7:W A.M ..-9:30 P.M. t
..... _,..,,,... 




EUROPEAN TOUR 
Unl;c~sity of Notre Dame 2l~ay .Tour, ~isiting E~gland Belgium 
Germany, S;;vitzc_rland,. Italy. and France•• flying from 'New York 
July .27th.. All mclustve: ~665.00: Twm b.edded ·room with bath where avarlable,. ;111 meals, flShtseemg by luxury couch, etc, Open to students, relatives and friends, · 
For f';11'ther informa~ion, co__ntact Pete~ Seifert, 44 Lyons, Hall, or · Catholic. Travel Office. l4.?6 Connecucut Ave, N,W., Washington, D,C, 20036 • 
7:00 p,m. Two buses will run on Saturday, May 15 and 22, depart­ing from the Circle at 10:30 and 
lZ:S0 and returning at 6:16 and 10,45 
Tickets will be sold in the So­cial Commission office daily from 3:00-5:00 and Thursday in the dining halls. 
.--~--------­

Although they absorbed their first loss of the year, Notre Dame's Linksmen .raised their season's record to 8-1 by finish-· ing second in a five-way meet Saturday at WestLafayette, Ind. Host ·Purdue's five -man ag­gregate of 766 was fourteen strokes better than the Fighting Irish, who were followed by Ohio State, Illinois, andNortbwestem. 
Co-captain Mike O'Connell and Pat Danahy led the Irish with 15~ over the thirty-six hole distance. Purdue's Rick Radder and Bob Zender shared medalist honors with 149. 
• The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He· is a man of this age, cognizant of. ·the needs of inodern men. ·He ·is · 
.free from stifling formalism, is a .. pioneer in using contemporary:­ways to achieve the conversion of · 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people ...,. the American ·people. He. utilizes .rt1odem techniques Jo _ful-{ fill his mission, is encouraged to.:, call upon his own innate talents to ~ help further his ,dedicated goaL · 
e If the vital spark of serving God .through man has been ignited in 
. 
you, why not pursue an investigac. tion of your lite as a priest? The•. · Paulist Fathers have developed an· · 
-aptitude. test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­t t d · · f rt · 
.an ecision ° your I e. Write for· 
it today. 

NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR · 
PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, H. Y. 10019 





Sophomores 
.order your 
·class ring NOW 

a,t the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
i 
; 
l ! 
l 
' 
' l 
....,~-----.:~-~.~------··-· ~•>-, •--,-.,. ., 
' 
Page 6 UNIVERSITY. of NOTRE DAME Wednesday, May 5, 1965 
Relations Committe To ProvideWork 
Student Body President Minch in the part-time or evening tut­"'•·'• ,_..•,v, . Lewis has instructed his newly oring and coaching programs 
formed Hwnan Relations Com-found in most larger cities, mission to provide an informa-Skriba' s information service tion service to Notre Dame and has a secondary purpose of pro­St. Mary's students concerning . viding full critical · information 
! .. t:,.i 
\'~s.u,'.
~r 
\ 

. . ... " .......... -.t . 
Jo!m Ge~ren addresses the 600~plus students attending rbe FT. Hesburgh testimonial dinner. Photo by 
Mike Ford. a taste 
. . . ­
. dents Thank .work," Skriba added. 
. . Some of the civil rights and
Sorin Announces Program Stu 
· "Super Sorin -Week" continues in full. swing today with a pep rally scheduled at Cartier Field at 4. The rally willfeature Coach Parseghian introducing his play­
ers, . 
Tomorrow a mud tug-of-war will be. held between Badin and Sorin at 3:30 on the· SMC field. It will be followed by a softball game, the tenth inning of which will be played at Sweeney~ s. 
Friday, Sorinites will have a date party at the Embers be­ginning at·B:00, exclusively for 
"friends of Sorin". After the Old Timers Game on Saturday Sorin is sponsoring abarbeque behind . the hall for children in the Notre 
Dame tutoring program. 
The week will conclude Sunday 
with, graduation ceremonies for . 
"Sorin . College". Rory Dolan. 
whom a Sorin press release de­
scribes as a "noted philosopher 
and social critic'' and who is al­
so a resident of Sorin, will de­
liver the commencement ad­
dress. 

Debates -End 
The Notre Dame Debate Team Professor Leonard Sommer, ended a very successful year on Director_ of Forensics, says that an unforttmately sour note, Irish this year's debate team ·never . debaters Larry :Petroshius and lacked. depth. In spite of the John Roos had to settle for sev-, graduation ofND's principal de­-• -enteenth.-place in.the National --haters,-Petroshius . and. Roos, 
Debate Finals held at West Point Sommer is confident the Irish Military Academy on April2land will have a very good team, 22. 
This was the thirteenth year 

that Notre Dame has qualified Circle Foregoes . 
for the final tournament, a tally unmatched by any other school in the nation. · 

Election Auth()r~ty
On the weekend of March 20, . the qualifications for district-The Blue Circle has turned representatives to the finalstook over itsjudicialauthorityinelec­place at the University of Chi-tion disputes to the Student cago. Notre Dame compileda6-2 Senate. Exact details of the record to qualify as one of too · agreement are still beingworked 
five ·representatives, from. In-. diana, Illinois, . Michigan, . arid Ohio. · · 

~cCarragher 
(cont. from pg. 1) 
hall improvement and for paving · the road to St. Mary's. However, the Administration has already 

-begun a long-range program of 
. placing permanent furniture in the halls, . the type of furniture . that is presently used in Keenan and Stanford. 
Father McCarragher endorsed efforts to improve student-fac­ulty relations: "l'm all for it." Regarding liturgical reform in the halls, Father McCarragher noted a University decision last week, ordering no changes in the 
permane~t structure ofhallchaP­

. els while, a committee studies liturgical reforms. The Univer­sity will allow temporary altars facing the people to be used. 


· PROTITABlE BUSINESS• SATISFYING HOBBY 

FREE CATALOG 
& SPECIAL 
INTRODUCTORY 
OFFER 
Complete easy ·1nstruc­
tions for making sterlingsilver .and gold filled ro­saries plus rosaries to Ile used by the Missions. 
. Sen~ for yours today. No 
obligation. 
LEWIS &· COMPANY 500 3rd Ave., Troy, N~ Y. 

out between the two groups, but at a meeting last Wednesday the Circle decided definitely to give up the responsibility. 
The Blue Circle will retain di­rection o(handling the mechan­ics ·of elections and of publi­cizing them. However, it will no longer' concern itself with fact-
finding in violations of election rules nor will it make judge­ments in election disputes, 
Approximately . 200 students participated in Notre Dame's 
· 
Typing Wanted Thesis, Dissertations or Manuscripts, Experienced, accurate and reasonable. Can pick up and deliver. / Mrs, Jean Motsinger 
Tel, 259·~304 .. 


F M h
r.. . _ urp y 
A petition has been signed by 
104 of 126 of the resident's of 
Alumni Hall staying there next 
year thanking their rector, . 
Father Michael Murphy, for his 
work on stay halL · 
Twenty-two students were un­
able to be contacted to sign the 
petition; no one who was aP-· 
proached failed to sign it. 
Father Murphy is neutral on 
the issue of campus-wide stay 
hall but believes in an impartial 
test of it in the three exped­
mental halls. 

He did much work to assure an . equitable room selection system 
and presently is planning to have 
hall elections now for Alumni 
president and senator: 
He hopes to have residents of 
Alumnireturn severaldays_early. 
next September to aid in the or­
ientation of freshman. 

Help Week sponsored by the Blue Circle last Saturday, The volun­· teers raked leaves, washed walls, and gave parties at variousSouth 
· Bend institutions, including the County Home for the Aged and the Logan Center forRetarted Child­ren. A mixer for the workers from both Notre Dame's and St. Mary'. s followed, 
John Chesire, the Circle's chairman, thanked volunteersfor their help and encouraged more to attend next year, 

· Freshman final exam. schedules ··. for this semesterwill be the same as for the first semester• 



WARNER'S· TRUCK AND TRAILER 
RENTAL, 
Rent it in South. Bend -leave it at home 901 W. Western Ave.. Phone ~287-9494 
opportunities for summer work 
in civil rights and poverty pro­
grams. 

An organization of seventeen 
students, one for each hall, is 
already compiling informationon 
more than a dozen Negro aid 
activities. The group is under . the direction of Lou Skriba, 
Skriba describes the program: 
"Our aim is not only to serve 
the highly motivated program, 
but to involve the average guy 
who has his summer committed 
to a iob or a vacation." , 
"I'd like to give someone who 
has thoughtaboutthe Peace Corps 
of this type . of social 
poverty programs are highly de­veloped projects like' CORE's community services and NF­CCS's Appalachia program. Al­though most are volunteers, some offer a minimal wage. Most stu­dents will be chiefly interested 
David C. 'Petre, a 1964 Notre Dame Law School graduate from East Aurora, N,Y., has received "honorable mention" in the na­tional Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition sponsored by the 
American Society of Composers, Authors and Publisher~





ll ' · 
· '. · · · ' · · · · · . · · : 
·.-.nne,,·1 
_ . _'@:: · . . ·· . · 
AJ.WAVS FIRST QUALITY 


SHORT SLEEVE' SWEATSHIRTS. 
169· i\fen's 
'fhe latest rage for school, play or leisure wear. Cotton fleece lined sweatshirts have short raglan sleeve, crew neck, knit cuffs and waistband. Me~'s. sizes ·small, medium, large, x•larne. Several colors! Buy a drawerful! 
Foto News Li tho ~-Ramarr PuMishing, Elkhart, Indiana 
on the many civil rights move­ments for those interested. Critiques of possible summer jobs are available in the seven­teen hall representatives' rooms, . 
., 
,, .
,,.
.. 
,..
,., 
0 
z 
., 
~


Fashion ... 
0 
~

Leaders .,, ::, 
,( 
...
... 
0

for, ... :E 
~

High School .,, 
z· 
::; 
z

and 0 
:r 
"',( 
'J


College men l 
""~ 


\ 
.....~.~~ 
~'.1 -l 



