
Ju;ne Graduation

Science_ To Mark 100 y·ears 
A special convocation will be vocation is one of a series of His articles on pl8.st1C1ty, ab­Plans Announced 
held May 15th to mark the Cen­morning. Here ·the academic a­events being held in conjllllction sorption, crystal structure, On Sunday. June 6, ll69 seniorswith the spring meetingsofNotre chemical reaction kinetics, bond
tennial of Science at the Uni­wards will be distributed, in­
will , be awarded bachelor's de­Danie's Board of Lay Trustees energies and polymerization have 

verslty of-Notre Dame, it was cluding the presentation of the
grees from the University ofand its Advisory Council forSci­frequently appeared in German .

announced last Saturday by Rev. President's Medallion tothe sen­
Notre Dame, followirig a weekend 

and British journals.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., ence and Engineering May 14-15, iors named as recipients, The
of processions, receptions andCentennial lectures, ·exhibits The noted scientist-philosopher

University president•. ROTC Commissioning Ceremony 
concerts.

and several special events have has lectured widely in the United 
Prof, Michael Polanyi, the cele-will be at 1:30 p.m. in the field­
Added to the number of Junebeen scheduled throughout 1965 States in recent years, He served 

. brated physical chemist and house.
graduates will be lll studentswhoto observe the 100th anniversary as Distinguished Professor of

philosopher from Manchester and. Receptions are scheduled for
technically graduated in Feb­of scientific instruction and re­Religion at· Duke University in

Oxford Universities in England Saturday afternoon when teach­
ruary•.

search at the University, 1964 and as a Fellow of the Center
Will be the principal speaker at ers and administrators will meet
Notre Dame's 120thannualcom­Bom in Budapest, Pro, Polanyi for Advanced Study ofBehaVioral 

the ceremonies in Stepan Center, with ·the graduating seniors and
mencement celebrationWill beginwas educated there and in Berlin Science at Stanford University

The convocation will alsoinclude their families. Tours of the cam­
at 7 p.m.. on Friday, June 4, withwhere he was a member of the · during 1962-63, 

the conferring of honorary de­pus will also he given,
a concert\bY the University band grees on number of eminent K11iser WilhelmlnstituteforPhy­, He was Terry Lecturer at Yale

a On. Saturday night there will be 
to be giveri in the fieldhouse. Atsical Chemistry for ten years University in 1962.· and in 1961

figures in the world of science. another band concert ·and a se­
8:30 on the same night the Uni-·

until 1933. was McEnnemy Lecturer at the
The Centennial of Science con-cond performance of "The
versity ·Players will present the.... From 1933 to 1958 he was as­Un!versity .· of California · at Threepenny Opera,"musical comedy, "The Three­sociated with the University of Berkeley and aDistinguishedRe­Four years of hard work will 

Manchester, England, first as a search Fellow at the Unive·rsity. penny Opera" inWashington Hall. Swtday, aca­
culminate on AnThe traditional procession downprofessor of physical chemistry of Virginia, · demic procession from the ad­the steps of the administrationand later. as a professor of so­Prof. Polanyi is a member of ministration building to the Uni­building to Sacred Heart Churchcial studies. From 1959 to 1961 the International Academy of versity Mall will begin at 8:30will be gin at 9 a.m. on Saturdayhe was a senior research fellow Philosophy and· Science and a that m·orning and will be followed morning. At this time the classat Merton · College, Oxford, foreign honorary member of the by the 9 o'clock baccalaureateof 1965 will make its last officialwhere he now lives. · American Academy of Arts and mass. The Moreau Seminaryvisit to Sacred Heart. This visitProf. Polanyi is the author of Sciences. He holds honorary Choir will sing at the mass. Afteris a private ceremony for mem­a number of books including Sci­doctorates from a number of in­mass the class flag, which wasbers of the class.

ence, Faith and .Society: The stitutions including Princeton, presented at the FebruaryWash­Class Day exercises will begin Logic of Lilierty: Tfie ·studyoI Leeds and Aberdeen. 
ington Day Exercises, will bein the fieldhouse at 9:45 Saturday Man; and Beyond· Nihilism, 
blessed and raised for the first time. 

• 
THE 

The commencement ceremony itself will be at 2 p.m. with the presentation of the candidates 
Prof, Michael Polanyi for degrees. This ceremony is scheduled for the mall. Finally the diplomas will be presented at 3:30 in each college and Notre
TMHDinner· OF NOTRE BAME 
Dame's Class of 1965 will move into history, ·· . 

Volume 3, Number 18 
Wednesday, April 21/.1965 .
.For 'April ~8-. . . . . . . . . . . . . ' ~"'.• _. T-hird Soph 
.:::};=d~ft:~;;th:; 
Nieli-N,a-ined Regional Pr,esident, Dies Abroad 
dore M •. Hesburgh, the sixteenth. D• · J•_: •· F N.~vc·cl~ p"l Michael]. Donahue, 19, anlnns­
. 

Pi-esident.ofNotreDame,for.the .. iscusses u_-'ture-.f.' 1 • -.:, • • a_ns. bruck ~ophomore, .died.while on.
_ 

generosity he has shown in the a_ vacation trip in Tunis, accord-students' behalf, Two ·Notre Dame sophomores inefficiency,_ He is totally con-· objective is to eliminate waste ing to word received at the Uni-The 5:10 Mass in every hall have been elected officers of the viricec( however, that changescan in the national budget, which in -versity, will be celebrated for intentiom ·North-Central Region of the Na-he made next·year to make it the past has necessitated very Donahue, the son of Mr. and of Father Hesburgh. The steak· tional FederationofCatholicC6l-more than justaname. . high dues,Atpresent$15,000 goes · Mrs, Francis I. Donahue, Fair­
:: ......CC"-.•-dinner· and testimonials will fol.:. .•: legc .Students at a;convention in ... -One highly -S1..~::essM.-event.oL-to:: pay,_ ~__pjrt-time; s_taff .~£. of~ view Park (Clevel~d). Ohio, was low that evening· at 7:15 in the Detz:oit• recently. TonyNieli"was. this· year was the Advent Sym-ficers, · an~ $13,000 for a weekly asphyxiated by fumes from-·a North DiningHall. .elected President, and William posium on birth control held in ,newsletter, whichNieliconsiders faulty heater in theNorthAfrican Student Body President John LaBarge was elected Campus .· Notre Dame's Stepan Center, De--a waste andwishesto discontinue. city. He is the third Notre Dame Gearen, Blue Circle Chairman Affairs Vice-President. . . spite poor weather conditions, it Nieli proposes a full-time staff student to die of fifty-two who Ed Burke, and College Presidents·. This is the first time Not~ attracted· over 1200 delegates, of non-students, who wo.uld re-originally enrolled in the Notre Larry Beshel, John Phillips, ,and Dame has held two positions on some travelingasfara 500 miles, ceive only $20 a. week plus ex-Dame foreign study program. Joe Perilli organized the dinner. the· .four -member Executive The entire year at Notre Dame penses and free housing, to Donahue was a 1963 graduate of Nass Cannon, chairman for the Council. The other officers are was devoted to re-evaluating the govern the body. A second pro-St, Ignatius High SchoolinCleve­dinner, has arranged for tickets. Sue Rakoczy of .Marygrove Col-· organization. The Senate -aP-· posal concerns the elimination land. He was a student in Notre to be sold through the hall pre-lege, Executive Vice-President, . propriated Notre Dame Study of fourunnecessarysecretarlats. Dame's College of Business Ad7 sidents. The $1.75 admission will andJudith LahettsofMaryManse Committee on NFCCS carried On the positive side, Nieli wants ministration and was on the entitle the student to one meal College, Secretary. · this work out and submitted a the NFCCS to affiliate itself with Dean's Honor List. He lived in with everyone attending shoWing The NFCCS is an organization sixteen page report. l'vlinchLewis the Newman Federation; He pro.;, Keenan Hall last year•. their meal card. of all Catholic college student andNieli servedasco-chairmen. poses better cooperation with the The two Notre Dame students The editors of the Voice, Dome,-governments and calls itself the, The NFCCS National Convention NSA, perhaps i_n joint con-who died ·earlier abroad were and Scholastic are compllfiiga voice of Catholic students will be held in Washington, D,C.., . ferences, MichaelM, Leahy, Orinda. Calif., commemorative program, which. throughout the country, Nieli, the on August 29, and Notre Dame Nieli says. the program manual who was injured fatally in a will include a biography, testi-regional president-elect, said _Will be fully represented with six needs much revision. At present traffic accident in Milan, Italy, monials,. and tributes to Notre that the present lack of vitality delegates, The Study Committee it deals With such non-practical and Jerome Witzel, Villa Park, Dame' c; President. in the Notre Dame chapter is the has seve~l· reorganizational subjects as the historical causes III., who perished in an auto ac­. · · · result ·of poor organization and · proposals which :it will present· _of· Communism. Nieli Wants to· ddent fa Belgrade; YugoslaVia.
·N·0 ...ca·.1·.end·ar C·h_ang·e' 
to the convention. see it changed into an action. Burial arrangements are still 
. _ . According to _Nie!-!_, the main, manual.. incomplet~. · 
Next year's academic calendar gins on February I•. March siwiU remain essentially the same . inai;-ks 'the 'aeaclline for midse­as this year's, ·except for the · mester reports. reinstatement of an Eastervaca-The Easter holiday lasts from tion•. ·. 1 _April 7.to 18, Exams.are from 
Classes will resume· on Sept-May 28 to June l with study days ember '22, with 'midsemester · on the 26th and 27th. Commence­tests being completed by Nov-ment is scheduled for June s. ember 11, Thanksgiving holidays The calendar was not changed last from· noon Wednesday, the· radically because of· previous· 
· 24th, to the following · Monday commitments made by -the Ad­morning, and the Christmas va-ministration, according to-Tom cation extends from December MulVihill, chairmanoftheStudent· 16, to January 3, Senate Calendar Committee. One 
Exams. are on January 22-:-27, . -of the problems was the spring . with two study .days preceding sports schedule which .has al--. them. The secorid semester be-ready been arranged. 
:-Soph Ye~~ Pr~gr~m s~ijor· Fra,ice· 
Because o( ~he notable success · with some background will be of the Innsbruck Program, Notre tested duringthelrOrienationand Dame_ is, planning a second pro-placed in courses best fitted to ' gran:.i.,. thisoneinAngers, F ranee~ their needs, . for: sophomore ''studies ·abroad.-••·· ·The.· ·Administration vtfll -send 

The program will-parallel the detailed information on the Innsbruck freshman course. Only Angers and Innsbruck Programs . 25_ ca~dfda;es will finally go_ to ~o al! Arts anc;l Let_ters _and Bus-. · · ' 
Angers,. Those with no high school iness Administration. intent ,Notre Dame ·stude!l_ts aid last. week's tornado victims _in clean-up operations. L·ast Wednesday 70 student.i 
F traveled to Wyatt and Lakcv_1lle to help; On Friday 90 went to the same two towns, and on Saturday 110 rench ~vm take Fre11ch 11; those freshmen in July. 1965 students travelled to Lakeville and Dunlap. Buses left at 8 in the morning and returned in the afternoon. 
Photo by Pat Ford. · · · 




Wednesday, April 21, 1965 University of Notre Dame 
. -r Veit Travels In Europe 
By Dick Veit . 
TRONDHEIM, NORWAY, April 3 -Three weeks remain of the Innsbruckers' spring vacation. After five · weeks of intensive traveling and sightseeing, funds and enthusiasm are beginning to 
\:)Y·. 

wane, but enough remainforthose last few scheduled ·countries. Random Travel Notes: 


: \ ,)j,
Gilbralta~erseven months it came asa shocktohearEnglish spoken on the streets again, Even . the little things that we had for..; . gotten about were surprfsing, like 
\ 
salted butter, undubbed movies, and hot water and soapdispensers

Spectato.rs crowd around an exhibit' at last yeai';;· Sports Car Spe~­
in public lavatories.

tacular. Tbis year cars valued at over S2,000,000 will be on display. 
Franco has been giving Britian a hard time over the Rock, but 
the determined traveler can still get there and shoot his budget in 

--Seventy -five sports cars Also on view will be tl;le Shera-this duty-:-free port, valued at more than· $2,000,000 ton-Thompson S~cial, .the 1964 Morocco :. Tangier is a complete . will be on view at the Challenge winner of the Memorial Day race · cnange from Gibraltar, A cheap 11 Sports Car Spectacular to· be at Indianapolis; a Mercer-Cobra hotel room (with clean sheets) held at The Stepan Center on the . which won the Paris Auto Show; goes for 40f; in the Casbah. Tour­University of Notre Dame cam-a Cord made of rhyolite; and, ist -are constantly followed ny pus April 23-25(Friday~unday)•. from Mercedes, two SL Gullwings begging ·children and peddlers 
General Motors, Ford andother and a Grand Mercedes limousine. selling black market goods, do.(X'l, organizations are sending styling The show will be open to the etc. · prototypes as well as production public April 23rd (FridaY) from Spain -.Europe's economic boom models to the mammoth student-6 to 11 p.m.; April24th(Saturday) has yet to hit Spain, but after . 
Auto Display This Week-end 
organized auto show, Proceeds· from 10 a.m. to llp.m.;andApril Morocco, it reemed like the land from the three-day event will be 25th (SlUldaY) from 10 a.rn. to of,tomorro,v, Surprisingly;·spain the students' contribution to 8 p.m. Admission at the doorwill has even better Moslem archi­Notre Dame's $20,000,000 Chal-be $1.25 for adults -and 75¢ for tecture than Morocco (es~cially lenge 11 development program. students • Tickets purchased in in the famed Alhambra of Grana­
Col, John "Shorty" Powers, advance, at Gilbert's or Office da), but it fails to match Tangier former NASA spokesmanandnow ·Engineers in South Bend, will be for excitement, ­an Oldsmobile representative, $1 for adajts and 50/: for students, Portugal -Portugal has· beauti­will be among prominent figures Serving as co-chairmen of. the ful beaches for a winter swim in from the auto world attendingthe show' are Gary Kohs, · a junior the Atlantic. • Notre Dame sports car show. An_ from Northville, Mich., and Law..; France -ltis possible_to live exhibit of fifteen Ferraris will be rence Wind, anEastOrange, N.J•.' cheaply ·in France, . though not the largest of its kind ever held. • senior. -· probable. ' · .-. 
The Yirgin Spring, a film by Ingmar Bergman and starring Max von Sydow. will be shovm in the Engineering Auditoriu~ at 7 
~and 9:30 p.m. tonight. Admission,-, will be $. 50. · 


DRAFT! NG 
Term Papers Slides · Dissertations 11 lustrations 
COPIES 
Xerox Mu Iti Ii th 
A,D.S. copies Only .5¢ Reducing & Enlarging_Drawings and Typing for · SLIDES DISSERTATIOHS MULTILITH .


. . . 822 SOUTH BEHD AVE. 232 88lf8 

BACK TO Prepared lor every CLASSES ••• ·course with: •.: .\ 
famous educational p:iperback, perfect for 
learning and reviewing.· O~er 100 titles on 
1be following subjects: 
ANTHROPOLOGY .LANGUAGES · 
ART 

-LITERATURE BUSINESS· MATHEMATICS .DRAMA MUSIC . ECONOMICS PHILOSOPHY EDUCATION PSYCHOLOGY .··_ SCIENCE
ENGINEERING 
ENGLISH .. sociOLOGY 
BARNES & NOBLE 

SPEECH . HISTORY. i··sruov AIDS GOVERNMENT

College Outline Series~ 

K.EYED TO YOUR TEXTS 
. ' . . . ON DISPLAY AT 

NOTRE ·DAME BOOK STORE· 
. 
l 
'?t>
'h 
with 


·FaraPress 

_Never Need Ironing 
They're ironing while · they're drying •M 
_Lightweight, finely woven dress-up slacks with all the advantages of permanent press -· creases stay in, wrinkles stay out · -always look neat. This sturdy spring fabric is tailored for discriminating college ·men. 
SIJPER · ·. 
.5-arex Pop·{L!f_ bffARAH. 
Comfortable, good looking -and 
only $698 


Page 2 University of Notre Dame 




The Changing Of The Guard 
With this issue a new Voice is born. Gone are the seniors. from John Gearen and Kelly Morris to Barry Johanson and John Buckley. who founded the· paper and nursed it through its first two years. We regret their loss. · · . _· 
Still, we must look ahead. The new staff has ambitious plans for the Voice. With news and sports staffs which have doubled in recent months, coverage of campus activities can• only become more thorough. and comprehensive~ In a series of time­ly feature stories, we intend to investigate such areas of campus concern as the dating situation, hall life and stay hall, and the rising University costs. Begin­ning in chis issue, we institute: a regular news analysis· column to provide an in­terpretative view of student government and administration policy. · 
You•11 undoubtedly notice our r~vised. format. The sports. page has been moved inside to break up the advertising copy that sometimes seemed to clog the. inside pages. The sports layout, with facing pages, will be more attracti.ve and easier to read. There'll be no necessity of reading first page eight, then page seven. · The new Voice•s editorials. will be different, too. The paper has been· accused; with som:e justification, of failing to take strong stands on important issues. Per­haps a better criticism could be directed at the dearth of new ideas appearing on our pages. We intend to correct both_ failings~ A. six-man editorial board, meeting twice. weekly, will discuss the issues until a concensus is rea~hed. From chis forum we hope will arise a balanced, original position without a sacrifice of de­cisiveness or uniformity. The result should be a stimulation of student thought and a molding of sttidenc opinion with hard-hitting yet constructive editorials. 
We think r:ou'll like the new Voice. Read it and see. 


Civil Rights:· ~oom For Praise 
It has often been alleged, particularly. by 
that noted but not especially disinterested, observer of the Notre -Dame scene, the Rev..Theodore Hesburgh, that Notre Dame is a Great University. This may ,be stretch­ing things a-bit, but there is no doubt that 
U . . . . h d d . h . . 1 

our mversity is. ea e in t at genera
dtrecdon. One portent. of this is· the cur­
rent campaign on the part of. the Adminis-. ofPubHc Information has recendy includ­
tration to have the-State of Indiana· locate 
a medical ·school on our campus. Another indication._ which I feel to be of greater 
·· · · import, is the. mature attitude which the 
...:... Administr.ation is now demonstrating .in the field of campus civil rights. . 
h. h. h

· On or about t is past Marc 1, t e Com-. 
. . mittee On Negro Enrollment of the Civil 
Rights .Commission of Notre Dame (C.O. ·N.E.) submitted to the Administration an 
impressive• report, containing suggestions for a· Notr_e Dame Negro enrollnJent program as well as. details oL such programs cur­· · rently· in effect at twenty-odd colleges and-
universities in the U.S. In a subsequent report of ·the Civil Rights .. Commission, dated April 9, we find the results of these 
suggestions. These results are most en· 
. · 

couragmg. 
. b • d • 
10

Since the suggeSt10ns were su mltte
March, 'the Office of Admissions. and the 
C.R.G. have separately contacted each of hOl
300 Negro winners of National Merit Sc ­arships, urging them to consider enrolling in Notre Dame. To date there have been 15 
replies tq. these letters. S_mall _as this 
would seem, it would represent a 60fo in-. port of_ the stud_ent_ body in its efforts to
crease in t~e Negro enro11ment onour cam­pus. . meet, these responsibilities. NEXTISSUE: 
· Room for criticism. 
·. Perspective 
by: John Gearen 


The Senate has been in· hi bite·d in w or king with general university policy · 
-al. So, while minor mo~ shown their, capacity for. tions have. been passed this year in the Stay Hall without question~ major.· Residence-Motion, and the .ones like Stay .·Hall have suggestions for change ,in 
required some informal li­ai'son wo.rk with the admin­istration to insure that what the Senate__ . passed 

would stand. In an attempt.· to relieve the problem, the at the last meeting passed a proposal that· any. mo• tions that the Senate ear­marks for the Academic or University Coundls would 
. be treated there. -· · . The reason for the change. is that once it-is clear that 
. lie University, this. Negro recrnitment and 
. 11. . . .h . b . 1 . 
.enro ment program . as een_a ong time 
coming._. Ho_wever, t_ hat is_. not_ the· poi_nt;_· student center on a Sundasyoaftrer-· 
The _point .is that t,he · Administrati_on is .. facing-up to the commitcments required by
h .. .·· .· h' . . . . h Ad .. ~ e 111:age: to w ich lt aspires. T e . mm­istrauon is to be congratulated on us ac­
· ceptance· of its responsibilities in this 
area, and deserve~ the active, vocal sup-
The Administratio·n has also approved the _ Dear Sir: Personally speaking as a Notre 
s l d l' f 700 d . . 1 
c ie u rng o a . wor arttc c on Negro
enrollment and recuitment in the next 
issue of the atu·mni· m·agazi'ne. Connected 
with this are deliberations with regard to 
the direct utilization of our alumni in the 
recuitment program. 
·To further spread "the word" about our· 
·u · · • · . d · · 
mversity s_ revise attitude, the Office 
ed a number of N~gro newspapers on the mailing list for University news releases. 
·. ·• · · ··.. · . -o me o more nause-asli'a . h . . · Such ~ program as this_ obviously· will ating than the movie could ever as 11Vmfg t e 8 1u: Circler w11nte 
__co_st _m __ __Y_~ ______ of_ thi.s;._the .·A_ ~!:J.o ­__.2.ne •.I_n,_yiew_ __ ..dminis-:.-._be. '[he_ profess_or,__ saw fit .. tgorowa upo. Iftyheoupwaanntshteosrun--eacoruw:: 
-·· 
'tration is preparing a statement concerning 
.. 
1 .. • . 

· the program to be su_bmitted to more than
· . . , . 
twenty foundations_ 10 ·or~er to obta10 the necessary scholarship funds. 
· · · 1 
· Perhaps the most dramatic feat~re of the 
C.O.N.E. program is the Administration's 
· · . . . · · . backrng of a student. exchange program in conjunction with Xavier University, a 
· 

Catholic Negro university in New'Orleans. There is good reason to believe that this 
· . · . ·· . . • • . . . . exchan~e will be inaugurated th1s commg academic year· ... ;:. . -. In light of our claim to be a grea(Catho­
· · 
the academic calendar ario class_ attendance require­:ments), the'channels for· 

their .contribution should,. News staff. • • • • • • • • ,Earl Gucitln, Ray Focry, Bob Scheublo, John 
Sibley, Dick Volt, Stevn Feldtiaus, Rick Schlcef, Mike Gorham, lUck 
be made formal, so that• Kalamaya, Tom·Long, Buck McFadden, Don l'olner, LatanacParkcL·, they can beco,m natural.. · Carl Littrell, Bob Mm1dhc11k, John Mulligan, Al Fong.:rom, mu ·The ultimate goal of the . Nagel, Steve Rodgers, John Masley, Mike Lonorgim, Karon Kerns Senate's_.· pro_posal_ · is that Sports Edlto1· · · · L3. 1 c· 1 ll
, •·, ...., ••••••• , ••••• , • • • • • • • ol ,mnp 10 the s·tudents contribute as Sports Staff, •••• , ••Mike Reed, Dan Ferguson, Dill Bt·own, Fl.'ollk fully as.. their concerns ~le-· Marasco, Jere Locke, Quentin Macmanus, Tom S111livnn, UlllUwy1:=1, mand · to the lc$islative Mike Granger, John.Corrigan, Steve Kurowski, Chuck Vo\'ff:m.1, w. · process of the u01vcrsity. -Hudson Giles . . · . · . ·. This will prnbably never Business Manager••• , •••• , ••• , •••• , , , ', , • , • ,Ken Socha mean that students should · Advertising Assistant ••.• ••••••••• , • ·, ••••• ,.John GuZauskas 
versity of Notre Dame. Office, Poom 2A, LaFortune Student Center; . P.O. Box _11.. . 
' Board of Review. • • •" • • ••Rev, Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C. John Cearcn . 
· Editor, • • • • .... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ; • • • • • • • .Bob Lumpkin::;Managing Eclltor•.•••••••••·•• .-•• ; •••••• ~Lciu Bartoshcsky NewsEditor•••••• ; •••••••••••••••••.••••••nanMu1·1·ay 
nknoon. _In chase danthe author doesn't ow it, t at . ce ?e ~fers to 
as the "hooch1coochi" is on ex­hibitions every week at the above two places, only it'scallthefrug, 
or many variations thereof. 
______..:.·------~----_:_-'------­
THE 





;J 1'••••.
. ..-ul'.i · 
. _· \'l.'8__1. ll rtr, . . ,., ·. . . OF NOT·llE DAitlE 
Published weekly during the academic yea~ by students of the Uni­
t h ri h 
o pass t e w ter m Fres man
English should be drumed out of 
the U ... r 't d bl kb 11 ,.
ru,e si y an ac a eu. In my opinion anyone placing any
stock in the writer's somewhat 
l
emoti_on~ _opinions is as ba~ as 
the individual who proclaimsGoldfarb' s value asanexpression of free speech not to be tampered with under the Constitution. 
· 
If the author (anonymous of_ 
c I If ~ 
o~rse, as .myse pre.er to re-· 
mam) considers some of the scenes of "lewd posturing" and dancing as damaging . to his mort1ls, send him back to Sister
M H l b 1 i h 
ary O y,.vater ott e n-t e sev­

enth grade; .but make sure he 
never enters Gw'seppe' . the 
Wednesday, April 21, 1965 salartes, are simply too tendance, or curfew. regu• 
private to be treated in · lations, · or the academic their presence. But .it calendar. And so, it should mean that they seemed clear that the Sen­have a voice in any mat• ate, should try to ,make it 
ter in -which there is gen• possible for the students uine and direct student in­· to initiate legislation of volvement, like class ·at· this sort through the Sen­ate,. 
My slightly amused attitude at Dame student, I do not feel very 
much maligned by the movie, 
seeing "John Goldfarb, Please· maybe a little bored after paying 
Come Home" has been greatly
altered since reading that inane 
article in your publication en­titled "Smut on Our Lady's Face." My opinion of the movie 
was '.'it's a pi_ece of harmless 
junk, amusing in some places,
perhapsalittlebawdyinothers-­so what?" . However this articlewhichcalls 

dseownemsthte wratth obef the Almighty .;~0 1~~a~~~eA~o~a~
:~rii:;t:11: 
$125 . b I he
• to see it, ut am sure t 
author feels maligned enough for the entire campus. . Speaking to the author; I would like to say: "Sir, if you were the
least bit serious about having the company prefix to the film the state!f!ent you mentioned in your article, yo~ l_a~k the int~lligence 
d i qui ·t· 1 t kn 
sa e 0 1: n si ion,_ e ~e . _ow
and. we 11 put you m a pos1t10n
h , · · 
w ere you cant harm ouri~ag~: Till then please keep qtnet. 
A concerned ND student 
. Dea·r Sir•. 
Could Harvard care less?· 
Mi h 1A K 
V. ;::derick8;fc{ey 
Graduate Students 
University of Notre Dame 
. because.'· its · constitution the students ought to con.;. h_ave .full ~ime representa• Copy Editor, • • • • • • • • • , • • • • ••••• , • ; , •• ,Bob Mundhenk has not provided a. chan• tribute in certain policy· uon. on the Councils, be--Layout Editor, • • • • • • • • • • • • , •••••••••••••Donnis Kern nel for its legislation that making areas of the univer-cause some of the matters Layout Staff. • • • • • • • • • • • , .Steve Vogel, Ed Baker, Dave Griffin would lead to final approv• · sity (which · they have di~cussed~ ' like faculty .. Proofreader. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • , , • · • • .Jim· Medeiros 

Page 5 

Ruggers Aim For ~Irish Cup' 
. By Bill Dwyre Rugby, the game that blends the quickness of basketball with the endurance of track and the rug­gedness of football, will be on full display this weekend with the initiation of The Notre Dame In­vitational Rugby Tournament. · "The Irish. Challenge Cup," as the tournament is to be called, will have a field of· eight teams. including Notre Dame's entry. Indiana will send the first Rugby team to· be organiz.ed in the Big Ten Into the· tournament, Also entered are Columbia, which ranks as a ·cop power in the East, along with other Eastern teams West Point and Dartmouth. St, Louis, a very strong team in the MiSS0'l.\ri Valley Rugby Union, will represent the Midwest along· with Indiana and Notre Dame, Rounding out the tournament. entry will be Virginia and anall­star team from Canada, The 

Irish are led by captain Mike 
Murphy and backs Nat Davis and 
John Recllng. Yet, accord.Ing to 
club moderator Ken Feather­
stone, the team's greatest asset 
is its depth anditssoundphysical 
condition.. An example of this 
came two weeks ago when Notre 
Dame routed Windsor, Ontario 
Canada with· seven different men 
scoring. 
Besides the many individual standouts from Notre Dame, a · major attraction of. the tourna­ment will. be last year's Army quarterback, Rollie Stichweh. . Stichweh was mentioned in many 
•post-season All-American polls, and he reportedly performs in rugby as well as he does in foot­ball. 
All preliminary games will be played on·. Cartier Field and the championship game. will take place in Notre Dam~ Stadium. 
Ron Reed shown immediately after releasing ball as Toledo player waits for it. Action was seen in April 

'65ers
10th game here/or Reed's first win. Photo by Bill McGuire, . · . • • 
Senior Week 1965 


Topolski's Circuit Shot Sinks Badgers 
Having seen their 6 game win 
streak shattered In a double loss .to Ohio University, the Notre Dame baseball team bounced back onto the winning track · Monday With a. hard fought 11-9 Victory overthe University of Wisconsin 
on the strength of Pat Topolski' s. 
2 nm homer in the bottom of the 
10th. 

The lead see-sawed back and forth in this one which saw the Irish outhit the Badgers 14-10 in garnering their 10th win of the season against only 5 defeats. 
Ron Reed started on the hill for 
Notre Dame,· but had to be re­lieved in the 8th by Kevin O'Neill · who came in with one out and the score 9-6 in favor of the Badgers, 
t 
O'NeiUretired thenext2batters, . ,_­and then set the Badgers down· again in· order in the 9th. In the meantime, the Irishhitterspush­ed across 3 nins to knot the count at 9 apiece and sentthe game into extra innings. 
Frank Karazim came in to hurl I ·• the 10th, and like O'Neill retired 
the Badgers in order. In the Irish half of the 10th, Dick Sauget struck out to open the inning. but Kevin Hardy followed this with a single · to center field ·to set the stage 
for Topolski' s game -winning clout. · 
Heading into· the remaining games this week against Wiscon­sin on Tuesday and the University of Detroit on Saturday at 2:00, Dick Sauget continues to lead the . 
· Irish at the plate with 17 hits in 39 trips for an average· of .436 

Str.eakSnapped 
Notre Dame's rugby winning streak was snapped at 19 last weekend , when . the·· St, Louis · Bombers upset. the Irish 14-3. 
Notre Dame had rim its streak . to 19 games in a· row with their second Commonwealth Cup Tour­. nament win on·April 11th. In this 
•' . tournament the ruggers beatDuke , , 14-0 to gain the privilege of meet­ing the University of Virginia in the finals. This game was played 
.in ajoaldng rajn_a11d~otreDame won on the strength of Jarrite 
'.I'oo~e}"'s 3-point p;;nalty kick. 
....._

.......··~·--················ 
Last .Saturday, the Irish La­crosse· Team defeated Kenyon College 7-o. The Irish will meet Defiance, Ohio this Saturday there, ·' 
Typing Wanted Thesis, Dissertations or Manuscripts, Experienced, accurate and reasonable. Can pick up and deliver. · · . ·Mrs; Jean Motsinger 
• : • j 
·. .. . Tel. 259-1304 · ·. 
in_vites you to. the seclusion of the "Forbidden City." Second
and 9 RBI'S. He is followed by a est pitchers o·n theIrish staff with 
Ticket sales on Tuesday, April 29 (not the 28th as originally
pair of Sophs, Pat Topolski and records of 4-1 and 3-1 respec­
planned) from 7:30 yo 9:30 in the Coke Bar, Tickets available for a 
Tom Tencza.· with averages of tlvely, however, ·Frank Karazim 
whole week of various events for the "complete ND man," (in-· ,3U and ,2f:J7 respectively, In the with a2-1 record sports the best 
eluding a bash at the Dunes, accomadations, and date plane,) pitching department,. Ed Lupton ERA with a sterling 1.2. and Dan McGinn are the winning­
Don't make me laugh.  
You mean to say,, I could have bought that big,~ : beautiful, luxurious  Dodge Polara, and Iwould have gotten a 383 cu. in;V8,· carpeting, .padded dash,  foam seats, and all those .·· -0 .other things .at no extra cost?  Who's laughing?  

_, 

At Polara's prices, why clown around with smaller cars? See your Dodge Dealer. 
, ' . . -. . . ' . , . . -,·,• . 
· --. · Step right up and see Polara-with a121 inch wheelbas_e. weighing almost 4,000 road-hugging pounds. .Powered .by a 383 cu: in; .va that.runs riot on !egular. Padded dash, full: carpeting·. All at popular prices.
. . . ' . .-. . . 
·ss. Qodg~ PCl!ara DODGE DIVISION dtiCHA.VSLER 
. · . ..,.MOTOR~ CORPORATION 
•/ 


Page 4 , University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 21, 1965 


-Mayl 8:30 Stepan Center. 
Tickets $2.00 .$3.00 $3.50 50¢.more ai the door 
F 
E 
-R 
R 
A 
N 

T­
E 
& 
T 
E 
I 

C 
H. 
-E 
R, 
·By c. J, Vergar11 It's like old times•. All the favorite phrases are floating aromid 
Cartier field, The blmiderers on the offensive unit are being affec­tionately referred to by Ara as "jugheads", an_d anyone guilty of a detensive mental lapse is being labeled a ''knucklehead" by John Ray. . 
Much constructive criticism is also being offered and absorbed. Each coach is a type of amateur psychologist, They all have their own way with the boys. From Tom Pagna's.soft spoken suggestions to John Ray's authoritative manner. ~· . 
Coach Ray's character and manner instill an attitude in the boys that motivates_ them to achleve for him. It's most obvious in Jim Lynch. Jim pursues and hustles 100%, Never have I seen more in­stinctive leadership traits in an athlete, 
· The other day, before a dr-ill, Coach Ray gave an interesting lecture on what it takes to wear a gold helmet. 
To Wear A Gold Helmet ... 
"Thf s is where we pick ourteam. Ourdecisions are based on tough­ness, which you all show, quickness, which, if•a kid doesn't show us much, we can help him develop, and most of all his ability to think and react. The company we keep on Saturdays i~ such that you can 
"be sure we're gonn'a face some ·pretty good boys. But you can be just as sure, we'11 be better conditioned and show more hustle, Most of all weill out think'eml" 
How They Line Up 
Reporting on who's playing where ·is a little like trying to say who's The other·day· Harry Long went up for a rebound. Harry found the in charge of. the Vietnam government. ·It can change every day.. ball but· lost an ankle, Paszkiet says it'll be another couple of days. Linebacker ls a tough place to lose three men, because of the Alan Page has a pulled leg muscle, but Is still making his presence "think and react" nature of the job, PeteDuranko and Dick SWatl and felt during scrimmages, .Toni ''Dusty" Rhoads, who is the fastest have given up standing behind the big four. They're trying to please lineman with a 50 yard dash time of 5,6, is learning the trade at the 
.Coach Ray at.end and tackle respectively. Last week, a messed up other end. · '. · blocking assignment left Freshman linebacker Jim Yacknow to get D.efense Shaping Upacquainted with fullback Alan Loboy. The result was trainer Gene Paszkiet simultmeously convincing Al he was all right and reaching . Coach-Shoul;s is working the same thr-ee defensive backs closer into Jlis pocket for an ammonia capsule~ · _ · . and closer to perfection. ..· : · . There was also an approving glance from Coach .Ray directed at Most of what happens on the .defensive sections of Cartier field are Mr•. Yacknow. This freshman may push John Horney and.Ron drills to develop and polish different skills and techniques. Watch­JeZiorski for the jobs they tenatively hold. Both these sophomores Ing these drills it iseasyto spot the great ones. Even in these simple are exhibiting the kind of detennination and spirit that keeps them exercises, they snap the machines a little harder, spin out a little on the field an extra half hour hitting the ml!-chines. · · ' quicker, and above all never dog it! · · Bear Webster is still delivering the meanest forearm blow on the As the inventor of defensive football says, ''Pride. That's what's ' squad.· !'vtike Wadsworth is on-the shelf; so Harry Alexander steps in gonna.give-us the best dam defensive unit in the t::ountry." for him at ·the other tackle slot, Take a stroll up to. Cartier, Look around and listen to the grunts. 
,__________________________,._Y_o_u_JU=-·_sr___mi~ght walk away believing him. 

Oarsmen Bow: Lose lnaugrals 
Last weekend the Notre Dame crew team lost its second race of the year to St. Peteis (N.J.). On April IO, the eight oarsmen made their debut in . inter­collegiate competition bowing to . the Wayne State· eight by one . length. · · · They did not come close_against St, Peter's though. finishing six lengths behind the Peacocks in 
the 2,·000-inete·r race. . . 


··Ava_Hahl·e Thursday' And· ;Mond~y-Nigh,(hi The· Dining Halls. 


Page 6 University of Notre-Dame . Wednesday, April 21, 1965 



Lewis Announces Appointments 
lent' s council,. who 'has yet to be :ho.sen. 
The six commissioners chosen ire Joe Summers, social com­nissioner; John Moore, aca­:lemic commissioner; Vince 3eckman, internationai com­nissioner: Buck McFadden, ciVil // Ol · · ~ights commissioner; Jim Egan, Jll{'ai:<3 c-:lloxr/Jl(,(?j, student organizations commis­PROFITABlE BUSINESS. SATISFYING HOBe·v 

,ioner; and Ken Moran, off-cam­:rus commissioner• . The commissions and commit­:ees will be organiz.ed under :..ewis' s coordinators, who to­~ethe_r will serve as his cabinet. 
The committees to which Lewis ioi,es to devote special attention ire the joint Notre Dame-St. Mary's Social Committee, the ;;tiident-run · Business Coo~ra­:ives, · and the Student Govern­nent Evaluation Committee. · 
Class .-Offices· 
Almost 2900 students voted in last Wednesday's elections for class officers. _ 
John Buck was declared the wimer over Pat Budetti in the senior class presidency race. Jim Fish collected 469 votes to defeat TomMaddenwith245votes and Ray McDonald with 171 to be elected next year's junior class president,·And Lou Pignatelli de­feated John Darrouz.et,· 682-455, for the . sophomore class ·presi'."'. . 
dency. ---· .·--. 
Malachi Kenny was electedArts and Letters Senator with 450 votes to Paul Freddolino' s 188•. The new Engineering Senator is Joe King who defeated EdKashu­ba 200-80. 
Other winners include: Senior Class -Greg Rust, vice-presi­dent; Dick Angelotti, secretary; Jim Toohey, treasurer; 
Junior Class -Pat Nash, vice­president: Bob Scheuble, treas-. ure: Sophomore Class -Mike Crutcher, vice-president: Roger-­Guerin, treasurer. 
· PUBLIC CAFETERIA· 
t 

Sou1h Dining Hall 
i 

t SODA FOUNTAIN t 
Mon. 1hru Fri. 
'1 i 
t 7:~0 A.M.-9:30 P.~1. I


-----------,,. 
M
.., 
~ 
...N 
,. 
a 
z 
:r: 
. "'0 :::,

Fashion -~ 
z

.Leaders < 
... 
-0 "':::,... 


for t 
z·-'


High School . 
;; 
z


and 0 
.,.i: 
l

College men . l <( 
,;:,
..., 




FREE CATALOG 
& SPECIAL . 
INTRODUCTORY ­
OFFER 
Complete easy instruc­
tions for making sterling
silver and• gold filled .ro­
saries plus rosaries to be 
used by the Missions. 
Send for yours today. No 
obligation. 
LEWIS & COMPANY 
500 3rd Ave., Troy, N. Y. 
L....-wwww ....... ~-wwwwwww-------~•-----•------•-C••"l6•5~~------~~ 
Foto News Litho -Ramafr Publishing, Elkhart: India~a 
E b . k. N · 
aster rea o expenence is necessary. for these posts, and
h h 
e opes all interested students
·11 I 
W1 app y. 
,-----------­
Cyr's Barber Shop · 
MlClirANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
160-lOZ South Main Street Opposite Court House South Bend, lru.!lana. 

HOLY CROSS 
I Priests Brothers l 
" Teachers "' Office and
I 

* Missionaries ·• Manual
* Parish Priests * Tcac.hers 
· *. Preachers * Workers 
* Chaplains * Writers  * Missionaries * Social Workers  
United States Canada Haiti  ·  France Ita:ly Spain  Brazil Chile Peru  India Pakistan  

visit or phone (284~6385 or 284-6497): Father William Melody, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall 

A new Reserve Officer Training Corps program permits selected college sophomores to be commissioned as Army Second Lieuten­ants in twoyears. You can do this by: 
1. 
Completing a special 6-week summer camp between your soph­. omore and junior years. 

2. 
Completing the 2-year Advanced Course at any school offering .the ROTC progr~m. 


What are the benefits of Army ROTC training? 
• _Management training for. success in civilian or-military life. 
. I 
, $40 per month pay while attending the Advanced Course, plus uniforms; pay and paid travel for· summer camps. 
e Eligibility for free flight instruction at selected schools lead­ing to a private pilot's license. ' · · · 
o 
A commission as an Army officer, with all of its accompanying benefits, including higher income, greater opportunity for ad­vancement and officer status. 

o 
The personal satisfaction that comes .from knowing you're trained to assume leadership responsibilities. 


These benefits will put you a· step ahead of other college graduates and will pay off for the rest of your life. You owe it to yourself to investigate these new opportunities.· .: 
For complete information, see the Professor of Military Science at your school, or send the coupon below: 
' ! . . ' '· .

~--~----.----~-----~----------:,­
I.U.S.·_ARMY ROTC I 
I ·Post Office Box 1040 Westbury, New York 11591 I Gentlemen: Please send me information on the 2-year Army I
I

I ROTC program. I undc_rstand that_ there is no obligation. I 
I I
--1 Name,___;.,_____________________ I 
I I

I· . I
Address._______________________ 
I Ci!i:.....___________s101._______,D Code___ . I 
I I
I : I
I plan to transfer I~---Colle~• or UnlversUy, 
Here's ·What the new 2-vear ·Army ROTC. ·orouram meansJo you _ 

r«Jlo11st '1/ Vision'"'· 
Cr411m,11 i11 O/tirs 

FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
NOW IN SOUTH BEND fHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEnlral 2-1468 
n,,J-lo11se of VisioH 1Nr. 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -Chicago 

Uganda Ghana Liberia 
.! 
I 

3y John Mulligan 
. . · " 

After interviewing more than60 tpplicants, Student Body Presi­
lent -elect Minch Lewis an­
1ounced_ the appointment of five :abinet coordinators and six :ommissioners. 
Lewis named Dick Kennedy so­:ial coordinator, Jack Belinski icademic coordinator, Gordon ~ash student affairs coordinator, md ·Jay Cooper human affairs · . .
He hopes to have the Evalua­tion Committee operative before the end of the year. Composed 
entirely of students who are otherwise not involved 1n student ·government, it will Study the pro­grams and activities· of this year's commissions and com­mittees to offer suggestions for 
next year. 
Lewis plans to advert! se for volunteers for positions on the various committees after the 








