
" 
11.'llJlE 
Gearen Receives 
;,. 
I) • Rhodes Scholarship 
-"' The Long legs of John Gearen, Chicago interviewed him along SBP and a former editor of the with students chosen infive otherOJF NOTRE BAMIE Voice,· will stride the lawns of states, Notification of the board's ="'· Britain's Oxford University in-decision came an hour and a half 
stead of Notre Dame's next fall, later. 
r . Volume 3, Number 10 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA January 13, 1965 Reason, a Rhodes Scholarship ••1 was floating on a cloud for 
I!' which he won in national com-'three days after I heard the de­petition, entitling him to two cision", says Gearen, still smil­
. Notre Dame Wins Injunction years at Oxford, ing at the thought, The scholarship provides Gear-. Applicants, after nomination by .. en with 900 pounds or approXi-a local committee with former mately $2,520 per year to pursue Rhodes members sitting on it,
'Goldfarb' Producer Appeals
'I studies at Oxford, and covers are screened for literary and By John Sibley Dame in the case is David Peck,· 1964, but no one purchased ~hem room, board, tuition and trans-scholastic ability, such manly .Y ,: of the law•firm of Sullivan and or remarked on their contents, portation. It also allows and en-qualities as courage, respect for
The New York State Supreme Cromwell•. He is a former pre-Morton Goodman, aLosAngeles courages some traveling.· truth, devotion to duty, humani-Court; in the most recent epi­

·siding justice of the Appellate .lawyer and Director of the Notre Thirty-two Rhodes Scholars are sode of Notre Dame vs. ~• John 
;,. Division of the State Supreme Dame Alumni Association, learn­chosen in the United States each Goldfarb, Please Come Home," 
Court. ·ed in Jtme, 1964, that the movie year, four from each of eight re­
ruled in favor of the University, 

The policy of the University had already been shot. Through­gions. Students from, Canada, issuing an injunction against the' throughout this controversy has out August, September and Oct­Australia, New z.ealand, South movie and the various editions been to refrain from making ober, officials of the University Africa, Rhodesia, East Africa, of its novel form. The producers public .statements so that. the attempted to see the picture•. Jamaica, Bermuda, Malta and, of the picture are appealing the case may be tried strictly with-After many excuses and sev-since 1940, India also are elegi­
decision. iil the courtroom. eral cancelled showings on the .ble for the awards, bringing the 
Justice Henry Clay Greenberg's The University Department of part of Twentieth Century the total to 250 per year.strong opinion upholdingthe right Public Information maintains that trustees and members of the·ad­Robert MacNeill, Notre Dame of the University to protect its no statements have been or will ministration saw the film onNov. '62', is presently studying und~r good name prevented the Christ-be made for the press Wltll the 17 in New York City. It was be­a Rhodes grant. mas Day opening of the film in case is out of the courts. All in-cause of these delaysthatthe Uni-Gearen hopes to leave for Eng­200 theatres around the country formation in the newspapers and versity did not file suit until late land at the begir.:ting of the sum­
• and cancelled a large, expensive magazines has come from the fn November, mer; classes start in October. advertising campaign. Apparent-legal brief prepared by Notre Richard Warren Lewis in the His sequence of studies is en-. ly the decision came too late, Dame's attorneys. December 20 New York Herald 
titled "Modern Greats'' and will however, because several· New One question the press has Tribune disclosed that William center around philosophy, politi­'York City papers·carried large raised and left ambiguous is the Peter Blatty brought the idea for cal science, and economics. He advertisements in their Sunday,· University's apparently late de-the picture to Shirley McLaine will have no formal classes but 
· tarian attitudes and, during theirDecember 20, editions. However cision to take legal action. An early in1962. MissMcLaine sign­will work W1der a tutor, school days, high moral char­the picture has opened overseas. examination of the facts contain-,ed Blatty to write the script, Lectures are . held at night and acter and love of sports.
The next test for the case will ed inthebrief, however, indicates which he did in eight days, and are optional, since the student de­Screening of applicants on thebe Friday, when it appears be-that Twentieth Century--Fox isa the two of them approached both, 
cides with his tutor which will state level was held in Indiana{ore the five-judge Appellate Di-victim of itsowndelayingtactics. Columbia and Paramotmt before 
be of value to him. After his on December 16. Gearen, along~'ision of the New York State Su-The scrii:t for the picture was Twentieth Century--Fox agreed studies .are concluded, Gearen 
with the president of the Uni-· preme Court. The studio, Twent-first submitted to the University to make the picture. Daryl Za­will receive a British Bachelor versity' of Chicago, ware select­

ieth Century-Fox. contends that for approval by Columbia Pie-nuck, head of 20th Century, would of Arts degree, something more ed to represent the state, Thethe proper grounds for the suit tures in May, 1962. The Univer-not let the picture be made until 
than an American Masters, but University of Chicago man thenis libel or defamation, in which sity rejected it. In July, 1963, references to Saudi Arabia were . still not the equivalent of a Doc­went on with Gearen to win the case there would be a cash pen-Doubleday published "John eliminated. He feared a suit from torate. 
scholarships for the Great Lakesalty if Notre Dame were the vie-Goldfarb, Please Come Home." Saudi Arabia, but he miscalcu­The student body president Region, together with a student tor; without an injunction against Only 10,000copieswentintoprint. lated Notre Dame's grounds for learned of his selection on Dec­from ·Haryard and one from Wert

the movie. The Bookstore had two copies in a suit, ember 19. That day a board in Point.
The lawyer representing Notre· stock from Auguest, 1963, toJuly, 

Sophomore Year In .France 1t4vailable. For '65 Frosh
. . 
., 
Due to the success of the Inns-tuition and housing. Dean Burke The students begin their year a-also mentioned the opportunity broad with · a cruise on the USS 
bruck Program, Notre Dame h America which depart. ed on Aug­
... 
is instituting a second sophOJl!.Ore for travel throug out Europe ust 6 this past year. After spend-year-abroad at Angers, France while obtaining an education asan i·ng f1·ve to si·x weeks atthe Lang-
h h f hm xt invaluable benefit of studying a­
statting wit t e res en ne · uage Institute in Salzburg, Aust­
fall, It will parallel the Innsbruck broad. course 'format except that candi-If the successofthisyear'spro-ria, the group arrives at Inns-h · d f gram can be measuredbythe 52 bruck in the middle of September. 
O

dates will take Frenc mstea Its .quarters are at the Pension
German, Placement will be det-sophomores presently in .Inns-ermined duringOrientationtoen-· bruck, the program has a very Steinbock, which is similar to a able those with strong French solid reputation indeed. Three small hotel. At the end of Sept­backgrounds .to be placed in up-course's are taught in German and ember the students startclasses; 
two in English. One course sche-they have five weeks for semes­
per-level courses. ter break•, schoolendsm' the mid­
. d ·11 th duled two lectures inGerman and 
Twenty-five stu ents Wl en dle of June, with plenty of travel
be selected to represent Notre a discussionperiodinEnglish,but Dame in Angers, France, in the the students vctedto havethe dis-ti·me before the return ticket ex­1%6-1967 school year. More de-. cussion in German, also. pires on August 8. 
tailed information for both pro-' ·a E . . . .V. t 
grams will be ~nttothe_L~beral ty ng1neer,, e oes 
Arts and Business Adrrumstra­
tion · intent freshmen this July. 

H·i·tchhi·ki·ng 51.gns
The · Innsbruck Program t!iis year includes ninety freshmen enrolled in the Colleges of Busi­

The South Bend-Notre Dame Re­ness Administration and Liberal lations Committee has encount-· of a driver picking up a hitchhik­Arts who are striving to become ered some difficulty in imple­er; there · would be no means · of the 52 (plus 7 alternates) chosen menting its plans for helping hit­distinguishing charitable drivers in mid.:March to spend their SOP­and true students from more sin­
chhikers. The police departmentcipients have included the late homore year abroad. Last year captain in charge oftraffic and the ister types.
R. Sargent. Shriver, director of President John F. Kennedy, when, 110 freshmen were enrolledinthe city traffic engineer, in a meeting Stamm intends to ask the chiefthe U.S. Peace Corps ani:i head of he was a U.S. Senator, as well as 


program, with Marty Stamm and Ray Mey­of police to issue a statement cl­the federal go\'e rnment' s new Po­Richard M. Nixon. Adlai E. Ste-~ These 52 who will si:end their ers of )mmittee, vetoed the arifying the statute against hitch•· verty Program, will receive the venson, Bob Hope, Bishop Fulton sophomore, ·year in Innsbruck, plan of putting blue and gold posts hiking -that it is legalfor some-· 12th annual Patriotism Award of J. Sheen, General CUrtis LeMay, Austria, will be selected as a re­at key hitchhiking locations. one to hitchhike ifhe stands on the 'the University' of Notre Dame · Robert F, Kennedy, and missile sult of their proficiency in Ger­There is a state statute against sidewalk or on the grassbetweensenior class, class president ·expert Wernher von Braun. man. overall marks, and opinions hitchhiking from curbingto~urb­the walk and the street.
Lawrence Beshel has annoUI¥=ed. 

A highlight of the exerciseswill of teachers who have been in con­ing; they felt that placing these The South Bend Relations Com-.
· Shriver, who holds an honorary be the presentation of an Ameri­tact with or interviewed the stu­poles would simply be an attempt mittee is also seeking additional · doctorate from Notre Dame, will can ffag to the University by the 
dents. to legalize hitchhiking. lighting across from Frankie'saccept the award and deliver a 
senior class. The flag is blessed All in the program have substi­Restaurant. The request will have 
They also argued that ifthey did major address at the University's. 
and flown for the,firsttime on the tuted a six-credit German cour­it for Notre Dame, other schools to be brought before the City·Pu­. traditional Washington's Birth­seniors' commencement· day in se especially designed for the. would request it for the same blic Works Board. 
day Exercises to be held on Fel;,­

June. Innsbruck Program in place of a reasons, The captain and the en­On the committee's agenda for

ruary 18th at 8 p.~ in The Participants in the program, in three. hour Social Science orHis­gineer felt that the city could not the future are more ·dinners inStepan Center. Astronaut ·John addition to Eeshel, will be Rev. tory course, give Notre Dame special treat­South BendhomesforND studentsGlenn was the Patriotism Award 
Edmund P. Joyce, S.S.~. Notre Freshmen Dean of Studies Will­ment. on January 31. simi.lartothe onesrecipient in 1964. 
Dame executive vice president: iam Burke cited the costs as Their third point was that if at . ThanksgiVing, as well as aBeshel, who will make the pre­
class vice president Matthew ranging from $150 to $200 above, these stops were instituted, South compilation of all party Md ban"".'
sentation, said Shriver was Lambert, Needham.· Mass.! and the cost of living here at ·Notre Bend and Notre Dame would have quet facilities in the area. .

chosen as too honor in balloting . Raymond Burke, Scarsdale, N.Y., Dame. This includes the round moral responsibility foranything More publicity is planned to in­

by the senior class. Earlier re-

general .chairman · of the event. trip bqa~ tripon the USSAmerica, that should happen as the result Continued on page 3 

R. Sargent Shriver, director of the Peace Corps, is the winn~r of the -1enior class• Patriotism Award. He is:sbown as he spoke on campus this fall. (photo, by Bill McGuire) 
Seniors Vote Shriver 



'Patribt OJ The Year' 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame University January t3, 1965
Dead End? 
What is interesting about the publica• thetic, one can only hope that the sin• tion of the long discussed course dis• cere. interest of the students to find out cription booklet by the AB Advisory about a course (without thus re lying on 

Board is not that it took 2 years to bring the rumors that result so often of late in this excellent idea into being. disproportionately large classes for a few 'popular teachers') will in the future
· Nor that only 159 copies of the booklet win him over to filling out a question•
were printed and distributed to fortunate 
students. Its publication is a step in aire, To those faculty members that felt the right direction. the bo~klet was going to be a student e­What . is shocking about the course valuation, one would hope that they read description booklet is the reac· the detached clinical tone employed to tion by certain faculty members. While 1 offend no one, if possible I in its first 
·J
)
some faculty members co-operated ex• effort. 
tensively in giving descriptions of their Finally to those faculty members who courses, others did not. Those that did~ violently oppose the idea of describing n't respond either were apathetic to the the requirements and. pre•requisites of a idea of giving the student a chance to · course (and we understand the History find out what kind of course hc,was put· Department has voted never to give any ting his cummulative average up for. Or· · such information. to a student group a· r~acted violently to the idea out of a gain) we hope that a movement could be misconceived notion that the descrip• 
iniated on the part of the-administrators 
tion of the course was going to be an e· 
or faculty members to re•vitalize. the in• valuation by students, in print; or that 
~
adequacy of the course descriptions in .' 
·(:
the description necessarily took away 
the General Bulletin. The idea seems to· 
the right of the teacher to change the· di· la , 
merit its attempt there, •and if it is de• 
rection of his course. once he had out• 
sired that its purpose be taken out of 
lined it for the booklet. 
students' hands, some reconsideration in 
To those faculty members who are apa~ 
that area would be beneficial. 
Bes.t Of All Possible Worlds·· 
Any semblance-of truth about conditions exhalted one of college athletics, John at N.D. in that latest Hollywood mistake, Huarte . pulled an equally impressive 
V ·-
Goldfarb, took another stiff rap with the coup, winning awards from the Heisman 
. naming of John Gearen for · a Rhodes committee and being named UPI Back of Scholarship. This award, one of the most the Year, plus any number of All-Ameri­prestigious the academic world can con-can.selections. 



OllU 


. fer, closely followed the presentation of Huarte's .is the happy, ,Cinderella type 
OF NOTRE DAME 
·of the Heisman 'trophy, athletics treasure tale • • the kind that dedication, proper of the year, to John Huarte. · · ~ttitude and, of course, some luck, bring Published weekly during· the academic year by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room ?A, LaFortune Student Center: 
; . A one-two chop to any insinuationsof true. Another example to disprove that 
r Post Office Box l. . .
!·. of ignorance or flabbiness. adage good guys and last place. 
Board of Review •.••.•••• Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearen 
i We think that these choices, one repre~ To know John Huarte is to know an ex-· 
EDITOR..• : •..•••.••••.•.••.•••.•••BARRY JOHANSONi sencing a pinnacle of academic excel• ample of college athletics that makes Associate Editor: • • .•.... ', •••••••••.• Grover Nix lli lence, the other an equally lofdy peak in you proud to be behind· the · whole affair. · Editorial Staff:..•.••Tom Anderson, Dick Ritter, Jerry Pockar s the sports world; were well-deserved, in · Again, as Notre Dame students, we con• News Editor:. . • • • ; ••••·•• ; ••.••••••••• John Buckley Assistant News Editor::. ··. . • • . • • • .... • • • Bob Lumpkins 
each case. · gratulate him. 
News Staff:. . . • ..•.••• Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Terry
SBP Geiren has a long and distinguished However, Gearen and Huarte are only 
Murphy, Dan Murray, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, record at this University,. both in the the most public of a whole phalanx of . Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick Veit, Alana McGrattan classroom and in the conference chamber students that are bringing credit to them• Sports Editor: . • . • .••.•..•••.••••.•George Kruszewski 
Sports Staff:..........Jim, Hemphill, Vince Kaval, Mike 'Read, Dan
·•·many are as impressed with.his abili­selves and to each other. Behind them 
· . Ferguson, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger

ties as a motivator as tney are with his in · the community come a long list of 
fusmess Manager:........ ; ••..•.....•...•John O'Hanlonbrainstorming. , scholars and athletes. Count the Wood­Advertising Manager:.•. ~ ........•.... , ....•.Ken Socha J As fellow Notre Dame students, we row Wilson, Danforth, NSF, and other Advertising Salesmen:. • • . • . • •. ~ .•Cregg and Roger Barron· congratulate him, proud to see one of national scholarship.winners. Count· the Copy Editors:. . • • • . • • •••.••••Bill Metz, Lou Bartoshesky Layout Editor: ·1 • • • • • ; ; • • • • • ••• , •••••••Dennis Kern ~---.;~ ' 
us get such open recognition for what other All-Americans, the athletic re­....
Assistant Layout Editor: • • , •• , • • .' •••• , ••• Neil Bowen 
we all must believe in. cords and the pro draft choices. · 
Layout Staff:. • • • • •· • •. • . • ; •• Dave Griffin, Steve Vogel In that other world, t.he often heady and Taken as a wh;le, it's the type of force Proofreader:.•.· • . . ••• ,· ••.••• ~ . Jann KaaoseY1cn .that Notre Dame stands for. Circulation Manager:. • • . . • • • ••.••••••• , .Ted Purvin 
Goldfarb, take your medicine. · 
The,Raging Riots·at Berkeley 
Much has been said about the incident health by the Bo~rd of Regents, the body. learn on campus and his freedom to. of students rioting ~at· the University of of men who legally administer the Uni­speak as an }\merican citizen apart. . California Berkeley campus. versity and all of its campuses, points from a university•. to the fact that the Administration did . By assuming that one is in .an·

The incident centered on the students" 
not adequately meet .the .challenge of the · environment to learn, .the student must
attempts to moderate the<recent enforce­
.students and that a change in headship accept the confinements of his civil lib;.
ment of University ·rules go~erning ·cam~ 
was in order and that the channels· of . erties imposed upon him by those who
pus and off-campus activity. J:he Univer· 
sity's ban on communication between the Administra-, teach him~ If he wants to hear speakers .
using the area around.. Sa• 
· that are not approved by his University,
tion, faculty, and students rn:ire not
ther Gate. (University property) to· re• 
effectively used by any of the cont~nd-if he wants, to join organizations that
cruit students for off-campus organiza­
t parties. i · deal in off-campus activity~ if he wants
tions. (i.e.. CORE) caused the students 
I . Most of the blame must lie with the stu• to participate in _any activity that isn't
lI to unite in what they called a Free 
·.1 .dents. Although incensed by the Admin­deemed educational by his ,institution,
t Speech Movement (FSM). Yet what gained 
lie must and has the · right to go outside
istration's bungled handling of the situ­
all the notoriei:y and publicity-was the
i ation, and supported by the failure of the the . university; or. to go off-campus. I extreme tactics . used in order to gain faculty to condemn extreme action, the ·... Clearly· the Berkeley incident did not 
their objectives. Because the Associated
h ·students 'resorted to tactics that can· and have the basic issue of free speech at its · 
Students, the elected representative'or· 
center.
I, should only be used when the· most basic

ganization of th1c. student body, was 11n­
I 
' 
I of freedoms are at stake. The students, Yet at the same time the. strength and
able to deal effectively with the ·admin• 
because . they freely join a University, effect of discontented students I who are 
·istration, the students resorted to the
f must recognize the distinction between not. properly . informed and, Hstened to,
I · tactics of "civil disobedience" ..For 
· areas in w:hich they may· justifiably ex• has been demonstrated. The avenues for . 
' this, as they violated .the law and force~
' I 
ercise·rights· as citizens and rights they, dialogue · should always remain op~n. · 
fully seized the Administration buHding 
can exercise while being students at a Strong arm tactics on the part ofthe ad­
· on the camp.us. They were arrested and 
·~niversity. · . . ministrators can result in the same

bodily carried to jail.~ 
Forcefully brought home to Notre Dame stro'ng "civil disobedient" tactics of students in two· incidents ·· ·· · · o~ganized and .outra~ed students,

. .The removal Clf Chancellor Strong (head ..... 
.It is· clear that there is no direct conL 
.of the :Berkeley .campus) for reason~. of· 
nection b~tweeti a student's freedom fo •·· 

January 13, 1965 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University Page 3 ation from Notre Darr.e in 1920 games and regularly attended the papers Foundation, the philan­
· · · · and became its sports editor in school' s football banquet. thropic affiliate of the Indianapo-
Two Scholarships Announced 1~39. Recipient of the Grantland The Fox Scholarshipisbeingin-lis Star and News, Rice Award for sportswritingex­
augurated in Notre Dame's de-Recipients of the Fox Scholar­
• 
. 
The establishment of two Notre symphonic accompaniment. He Dame scholarships was an­established the Louis Sudler nounced during December. Foundation for the Musical Arts The Louis Sudler Music Found­in May1962 to give annual awards, 
ation, Chicago, Ill., .has estab­scholarships and aid to various lished an annual $500 music scho­muscial endeavors, larship, which is designed to as­Establishment of a scholarship 
sist students recommended by the in memoryofWilliamF. Fox, Jr., Notre Dame Music Department. veteran sports editor and col­It will be awarded annually be­umnist of The IndianapolisNews, ginning next year. was announced at the 45th annual 
Louis Sudler is the host and Notre Dame Football Banquet, commentator of the weekly NBC Dec, 9, 1964,
..
television series "Artists' Show­Fox, who died May 14th, joinedcase," which presentsyoung pro­the News' staff after his gradu­fessional musical artists with 

Soph Killed In Auto Crash 
Witzel, KrobllilandCarlos Her­Jerome Witzel, Notre Dame so­mosillo ·were on a Christmasva­phomore participating in the Inn­cation by car.Hermosillo was in­sbruck program, died in an auto­jured in the accident. 
mobile accident in Belgrade, Yu­Witzel's body was shipped home goslavia, over Christmas vaca­for burial; funeral serviceswereJ:ion. 

held at St, Pius XchurchinLom­Robert Kroblin received a basal bard, Ill., on January 2. Yester­skull fracture in the same acci­day'. Rev~ Theodore M Hesburgh,dent, and was listed in serious C..S.C., celebrateda requiem high condition.in a Belgrade hospital. 
Mass for Witzel • 

Four Join Trustees Board 
Four prominent business and sident of Field Enterprises Edu­professional leaders have been cational Corp,, Chicago, Mr,appointed to the Board of Lay Phalin is a 1928 alumnusofNotre·Trustees of the University ofNo­

Dame,
tre Dame, according to an a­Another new Notre· Dame lay nnouncement by . Rev. Theodore trustee is FranklinD, Schurz, di­M. Hesburgh, C..S.C. 

itor and publisher of The SouthThey are Donald M. Graham, Bend Tribune, whose appointment Vice chairman of the board of di­was announced Nov, 15th. 
rectors, Continental Illinois Na­
tional Bank and Trust Company members of the board serve asof Chicago; FrankE. Mackle, Jr., 

advisors to the University admin­president ofThe Mackle Co., Inc., 
istration, notably in the areas ofMiami, Fla., investment and real finance and development. Theirestate development firm:· Newton principal responsibility is theN. Minow, Glencoe, Ill., attorney holding, investing and adminis­and former chairman of the Fed­tering of the endowment funds oferal Communications Commis­the University. 
sion; and Howard V. Phalin, pre-

Honor Council.Letter Prepared For Parents 
it, Also included is a brief ex­to mail to. all Notre Dame par-, 
The Honor Council is planning 

planation of the processes of the. ents a letter explaining to them 
system. the meaning of the Honor Code, 
Copies of the letterwill be avail­The letter, to be mailed within 
able to students before it ismail-the next two weeks, is intended ed home, / to inform the parents of whatthe 
The Honor Council has also been Notre Dame honor code is, why 
at work finalizing proceduresfor it is and how it functions. Several 
trials, This information will like­pages, long, it summarized the 
wise be available to interested origin and evolution of the Honor 
students. Code, and gives a rationale for 
Dr. Henry Hare Carter, pro­fessor of modern languages atthe University of Notre ·Dame, has been awarded an $1,800 grant-in­aid by the American Council of · Learned Societies to subsidize publication of a new book by the University of North Carolina PI'E!ss. 
Hitchhiking 
Continue·d from page 1 
crease the number of students who will take advantage of eating 

· a holiday dinner in South Bend homes, Signing up for the meals will be handled by the Hall Pres­ident's Council. 
To compile a listofallpartyand banquet facilities in the area, the Committee is sending out a ques­tionaire to any place which may have suchfacilities. Prices, size, and other details will be filed in the student government office. 
The committee ;eels it is deal­ing with a minorityof students when it has to take steps to deal with the damages tolocalmotels. The committee is making avail­able to motel owners forms that can · be filled · out by students and organizations before motel facilities are rented to them. Owners may also require ID 



' 

cards and advance. deposits. __ cellence, he often covered Notre 

partment of communication arts ship at Notre Dame will receive 
Dame's football and basketball 
by a grantfrom the Central News-$1,000 a year for four years. 

in the parking lot1 Richy1 with all those Dodge Coronets Mound it. 
'BS Dodge CoronetSCJIJ 
DODGE DIVISION~~ CHRYSLER 
~ MOTORS CORPORATION 

Got a second? Lend an ear. Dodge's all new, hot new Coronet 500 has got an awful lot going for it (besides your girl). For instance: buckets and backup lights, full carpeting and a console, spinners and a padded dash-a// standard equip­ment. More? Much I Like an engine lineup that would make any car squeal for joy: 273, 318, 361, 383 or 426 cubic inches. Like a lean and hungry look. And like a low, low price tag-Coronet costs less than any full-size Dodge in years. We can't hope to make you a believer with an ad, so we'd like to extend an in­
.vitation-come and see the 1965 Coronet 500 at your nearest . Dodge aealer's. Bring your girl along it makes for a cheap date. 

Ii



Prof·To Prepare Films 'Affa To Combat 'Gobledegook' 
A schedule which begins at 3:30 The same studios, this Febru­in the morning, make-up, highly-ary, will be the sceneofthefilm­paid students --these are the ing of an entirelydifferent series class changes in store for Ed-of four proposed movies entitled, ward A. Fischer, Associate Pro-"How To See A Motion Picture," fessor in the Department of Com-Also scheduled for television munication Arts, He will leave syndication, they will laterbe put 
-Notre Dame this semester to into film libraries as a supple­.. start work on a series of four ment to courses in the relatively films designed, in part, to alert new field of communication arts our present society to the impor-being developed in the American tance of the motion picture idiom, university system. The Univer­the basis on which our society sity of Notre Dame, a pioneer in will be judged in the decades to this field, is one of the few insti­come, · tutions on the tmiversity level to 
·This is the second such project have such a department. 
· undertaken by Mr. Fischer. His The theme of the series is em­first film, scheduled for release bodied in the title, "How To See in March by H.S.F. FilmStudios, A Motion Picture," As Mr. Fis­is the "War on Gobbleygook", a cher explained, "By seeing, 1 do screen dramatization of a lecture · not mean looking, but rather us­given by Mr. Fischer. The film, ing both the. heart and mind to which is being syndicated to 200 see ,what our eyes look at,',' television stations throughout the Of the two scriptsalreadywrit­United States, depicts poorly done ten, the first of the four part ser­
Almost time for finals. Larry Houdek, Ron Schmidt and Joe Kaminski may be seeing their last of card 
man-made thing. ies utilizes the structure of the
playing for several weeks. (photo by John Sawyer) . 
The theme, which started out as all-too-familar horse opera: the a tirade against heavy handed stranger riding into townand, af­writing, has been extended to in-ter demolishing the local saloon, elude all the crass standards of riding off again into the sunset. • 
our society --the neon lights, Acting. both as cowboy hero and. billboards, electric guitars and narrator, Mr. Fischer hopes to many other things that help to get the viewer behind the' scenes cheapen our way·of life~ of film making to see howthe mo.;, 

AB Council Prepares 
I Course ·Description _Bo~klet The picture, which starts and . tion picture looks before editing, 
i ends on the Notre Dame campus, and, in this way, to give the pub­. A Course Description Booklet obtained by means of a question­from Academic Affairs, was filmed for the most part on a lie a true appreciation of the men prepared by the Student Advisory naire filled out by the professors The aim of this library istoen-Hollywood sound-stage;the "stu-behind the scenes--the directors, ' Cotmcil of the College ofArts and of the courses. Mostof those ask­courage general background dents" are ,members of the ·producers, and editors on whom Letters appeared lastweektoas­erreplied, but so111e had too little reading aside from class work, Screen Actors Guild who receive the· basis for-.success is esta­si st students in pre-registration. time before the deadline to pre­the books willcoverawiderange, $100 a day fortheirclasspartici-blished. ' · The Council has also been work­pare an outline for'theircourses, with little.highly technical mate-pation, In the second film of the series, ing to establish a paperback li­Only a few refusedtoparticipate, rial, Brejcha saidthatthelibrary In thefilm, thecamerasd!ssolve Mr, Fischer will portray an art­brary. will also serve as a commons form Mr, Fischer's lecture to an ist in order to demonstrate the
This year the booklet was on an
. The booklet contained outlines, room for informal student-fa-average American on average principle of design and scene 
. experimental basis, and financed 
requirements for enrollment and culty discussions, a facility that work day, a dramatized example placement, It is hoped that this
by student government, Brejcha
reading lists for 35 AL courses, O'Shaughnessy Hall presently of how people are constantly aff-film will demonstrate to the pub-
hopes that the project will be ­
chosen because of especially.in­lacks, · · . ronted by this gobbleygook of lie that while the stage is the ac-­
continued, to encompass a great-.
teresting content or because they 




er number of courses,
are usually misunderstood. 
The Council's second project,
The 150 copies were distributed 

the paperback library to be lo­
to advisors and placed in each 
cated in a promised room on the
hall, 

third floor of O'Shaughnessy, re­
Tom Brejcha, AB Senator and 

ceived aboostfromgrantsof$200
Council· chairman, explained the· 

from the Student Senate and $500 
information in-the booklet was 

MardiGrasRepresentatives 
Serving YOU~.. 
Jim Robison-150 Alum~i Jerry Premo-407 B_adin 
Terry Carrol-150 Cavanaugh Tom Vogelwe.de-325 Keenan Bernard Mahalak-418 Stanford Jim Montie:-435 Farley· Jim McGauJy.:...220 Dillon Pete Gast-253 Morrissey 
Joe Doherty-326Howard Bob Gardner-245 Lyons Denny Hoover~l29 Zahm ]im McGuire-123 St. Ed's G,arr Paquin-431 Walsh 'Rory Dolan-326 Sorin Dave Tchetier_:..41 Pangborn Ed· Moran-130 Breen Phillips .• Andy Howard-224 Fisher .. Ken Manning-Off Campu·s (233.:...384,7) ·. 
I 

··. S~e Them For All Information, 
Regarding The 1965 Mardi"Gras 
The library will be run on an modern society, the instant slums tor's ar1;, the motion picture isthe 
honoi:: system, with no supervi~  of urban living, the inane mailing  director's art,  
sion, and students will be free to  pieces of insurance and magazine  
check out books at their i:liscre­ firms,and the sentimental strings  
tio~  of a blaring juke-box.  




·''when-can I ·.interview IBM?'' 
Feb.18 


''for whatjobs?" 
Business Administration, Finance, Manufacturing,. Product Development, Programming, Research, Systems Engineering, Marketing/Sales. 
If you are majoring in Engineering, the Sciences, Mathematics, or Business Administration, see IBM. The development, manufacturing, and marketing of information systems and equipment offer many opportunities 
to show what you can do. · · · · 
See your placement office for our brochures-and an appointment with the IBM interviewers. Ask where your ideas can best be used at IBM, an Equal Opportunity Employer. There are 20 laboratories, · 17 plants, and over 200 sales and service offices coast to coast'. 
If you cannotattend the interviews, visit the nearest IBM office. Or write, telling us about your interests, to Manager of College Relations, Dept. 882, · IBM. Corporate Headquarters, Armonk, New York 10504. 
Applied Mathematics, Applied Mechanics; .. Data Communications, Digital Computers, Guidance Systems, Human Factors, Industrial Engineering, Information Retrieval, Marketing, Manufacturing Research, Microwaves, Optics, Reliability Engineering, Servomechanisms, Solid State Devices, Systems Simulation, and related areas. 
1B 

:..­
a. 
..
.. 



Alumni Name· New President 
The electionofLancasterSmith, · Dallas, Tex., attorney, as presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association by the organization's 
" 
board of clirectorswasannounced here today by James E. Arm­strong, executive secretary, 
Smith, who was graduated from

• 
the Notre Dame Law School in 1950, was a star halfback on the undefeated Ffghting Irish teams of 1946-47-48. As president of Notre Dame's 35,000 member a­lumni organization, he succeeds Philip J. Faccenda, Chicago, Ill., attorney and president of the l\1id.; west Container Corp, 
Other newly-elected Associa­tion officers include George J. Barlscillo, Jr., Asbury Park, N. J., attorney, club vice president; Paul Fenlon, retired professor 

!t' of English at Notre Dame, class \'.fee president: and Morton E. Goodman, Beverly Hills, Calif., attorney, fuµd Vice president, Smith and hisfellow officerswill .be installed at the winter meet­ing of the Notre Dame Alumni A­ssociation' s twelve.:.rnan board of ·directors at The Morris Inn on the campus tomorrow· through Saturday. 
Tutors Needed 

The Notre Dame-:St, Mary's tu­toring program is in need of new tutors. The program, which en­ables South Bend school age children· to receive free help in subjects in which they are ex­perencing difficulty,-has mush­
roomed durlngthe past semester, This, coupled with the fact that there is an annual turnover, in ­tutors at -the semesters end. 
.. 
·Discover the difference in the 
'65Chevrolets(As different.from other car~ . . . 

-. _· _ _ .as they arefront each other) 
.. 



THE VOICE, Notre· Dame University Page 5 
Midshipman Ensign Ron L.aSpisa, left, leads Col. Spritzen, Navy Unit C.S., through tbe ranks of LaSpisa's platoon irz a major Bat­talion inspection last Thursday in the Stepan Center, Bob Brugger follows the Colonel and Company Commander Mike Conerty in the inspection team. (photo by George Gounares) 
Washington Hall Films Changed 
The Washington Hall series of the Student-Faculty Film Society will continue the rest ofthe year, With substitutions for the origi­nally scheduled films. 
Earlier in the semester, a dis­agreement with the film distri­butors had caused some question about the future of the series. Downtown theater owners pro­tested that the Washington Hall moVies were injuring their busi­ness, and pressured the distri­
butor to cancel Lawrence of Ara-.------------~ 
bia and substitute Bill Budd. Since then, however, an agree-
PUBLIC CAFETERIA 
. South Dining Hall 
SODA FOUNTAIN 
Mon. ihru Fri. 7:30 A.M.-9:30 P.M. 
t f 
t 
i 
ment has been reached: the film society may show older films, 
The films for the rest of the sea­son have been changed, in line with this new policy, The films will be older, but will maintain the same standards of quality, according to Tom Vitullo, film society chairman. There will be ten show dates next semester, and memberships will again be sold for $1. 
J3 t ~ ~ 
. you're . positivelydiabolical 
¦ 
_1n 




Post-Grad slacks by 



hmim 

® 
Adevilish gleam will come into your eyes when you assume the lean and letha I pose that these pants give you. They· trim you up and taper youdown. Post-Grads are the ne plus ultra of campus styles because they're absolutely authentic. Neat belt loops. Narrow-but-not-too-narrow cuffs..Shaped on-seam pock­ets. You can look satanic for a pittance since they cost but $6.98 a pair in 65% Dacron* 35% Cotton. Buy 'em and
hissss! _ · ·· · · . 
•ou Pont's Reg. TM. for its Polyester Fiber 

When professors say, .111he more you know, the more you want to knowl"­Bright .students consult ­BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES Where they always· learn MORE ­. Quickly, Clearly & Thoroughly. KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS Available in almost every subject On Cisplay at The Notre Dame Bookshop  


:. 


:!­
lnnshruck~rs Cover Continent; ... ~; 'Goldfarb' Opens In Europe \ 
__,.. 

for those in Rome, they met for merican court orders don't apply eggnog after Midnight Mass at in Europe. The film begins in the Notre Dame Hospitality Cen-Venice January 8. ~· ter, and in the afternoon ate a Some advice for next year's turkey dinner, also arranged by Innsbruckers: Join Navy ROTC, the extra-helpful center. Laterin. Their ID cards will get you into ·., the week they were guests for any Armed Forces, where you dinner at the Eternal City's can buy everything from cheese­
" J
C.S.C. seminary. burgers and Americantoothpaste 
The movie, John Goldfarb, to German cameras and Swiss Please Come Horre, may never watches, all at the lowest prices 
~ ""'' 

be shown in the States, but A-available. 
Campus Phones Subject Of Vote 
Students will votenextsemester The administration will pay ini­on the question of telephones in tial installation costs if the plan campus. rooms. Paul Walker, is approved. 
.i,.J.•

chairman of the Senate Welfare· At least 750 to 800 telephones Committee, stated that the re-will have to be involved for the ferendum is slated to be held telephone company to perform the within the first two weeks of the service, If the plan is defeated semester. in the referendum, the phones If the referendum passes, all on-may possibly be installed only in ·campus students will be permitt-those halls with a large vote in ed to· have phones in their rooms. favor of the system, providedthe The phones will cost students number is above the 750 mini­
$25 per room for each semester. mum. 
By Dick Veit 
Venice, Italy; January·4---The Innsbruckers are beginning the third and final week of Christmas vacation during which Southern Europe and theNearEastbecame principal holiday target~ A~­though a few visited.relatives m England and Germany, the ma­
jority of the group spent Christ­mas -Day in Istanbul, Rome, or Bethlehem. 
The most adventurous vacation 
is being undertaken by a group of 
nine who drove a rented Volks­
wagon bus to the Hold Land, Since 
the Arabs let no one drive out 
of Israel, the (and the bus) are 

at present are sailing from Haifa to Athens. The long-distance-va­cation record is heldnot~ythen:, 
however, but by Rod Abele, who flew home to New Orleansforthe holidays. 
It was al_so so~ewhat like home 

Skiers :pIan Sem.. Break Trip 
Caberfae, Swiss Valley, Aspen and Crystal Mountain are the destinations of trips scheduled this year by the Notre Dame Ski Club, 
The club will run its annual se­mester break ski trip from Jan. 28 to Feb, 1, Trippers will stay in Cadillac, :Mich., and will ski on the slopes of Caberfae, . 
Caberfae, an already excellent area With its 85 slopes, has add­ed to·its facilities, For the lodge skier, there is a new main caf­eteria• and lodge with a large fire­place and recreationarea;forthe 
Architects Prepare 
Medallion Designs 
Creating a design for one side of the new President's Medallion is an assigned project for.the en­tire architecture department, ,, The medallion is the award in­stituted this year by the St:udent ·Senate to replace nomination to 
Who's Who, The Blue Circle committee on 
· the medallion willchoose the win­ner from the ten top designs, se­lected by • the architecture fa­culty from the 150 enters, · 
The other side of the two-inch diameter ·medallion will bear the seal of the University. 
Paul Walker, chairman of the Blue Circle committee and head of the selection board for the a­ward, will, send letters to the or­ganizations represented on the board to ask for their nomina­tions to the board, This group will be composed of juniors re­.presenting the Band, Blue Circle, Dome, Glee Club, .Hall Presi­dents' Council, Monogram Club, Scholastic, StudentSenate, Voice, WSND and the four colleges, 
The board will select 40 final­ists in the ,;1ward competition or the basis oflettersofnomination, and choose the 20 to25medallion winners after interviews with the finalists. The selection will be completed by March 15, 

outdoor skier there are two new expert slopes in the north ridge section. 
All the,motels to be used are in close proximity, but because of the limited number available, the size of the trip will be limited. 
A· dinner dance.· is planned for Saturday night of the trip. 
The total price for the four-day trip is the same aslast year: base price for bus, food and lodging is $43.50, with tows and equipment raising the total to $69.50. Free instructions will be given. Regis~ tration for the trip is in Room 2C of the Student Center. 6:00to 11:00 on Jan, 17. 
The club will als9 sponsor one day trips to Swiss Valley, every weekend that the club can ifet 30 people wishing to go. 

Med. Inst. Gets 
The Mediaeval Institute has re­ceived a grant of$69,000 from The National Science Foundation for the microfilmin·g of manu­scripts on the history of science at the Ambrosian Library in Milan. 
As the result of an ~arlier 
· $56,000 NSF grant, more than three thousand documents of a scientific nature have already been filmed, stored and cata­logued in the Ambrosian Collec­tion of the Notre Dame Memorial Library, 

Prof. A,L, Gabriel, Institute di­rector, estimates it will take two more years to complete the pro­ject, The manuscripts being copied for use by researchers in 
· this country deal mostly with the 
The International Institute for Conservation ofHt.atoricandArt­istic Works mcently elected the Notre Dame Art Gallerytomem­bership. The hiatituteis!I. subsi­dary of the National Gallery, London. En~ 

-atJlollS( pf VisiPn '"'· 
Cr,zft1mt11 i11 Optia: 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
NOW IN SOUTH BEND rH~ SHERLAND'BLDG. _; 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1468 
rueJf011se uf Vision In,. _ 
Main Office:· 135 ,N. Wabash Ave. -Chicago. 
The cost of these trips will be $2,50 for bus, $2,50 for tows and $3.00 for equipment, Sign upsfor these trips will take place in the dining halls the Thursday night before the trips. 
On the weekend .of Feb. 5 to 7, 50 skiers . will go to Crystal Mountain, where they will stayin the lodge atthe base of the slopes, The club will also sponsor a trip to Aspen, Colo., over spring va..: cation. The tripperswill have five ·days of skiing on the over 50 miles of Aspen's slopes, some ofwhich ai-G-over six miles long. The chairlifts to the top will be within walking distance oftheiraccomo­

dations  at  the . Roaring Forks.  
The  total  cost  of  the  trip is  
under $110;  a  deposit of $10 will  

be required for reservations. 


-Microfilm Grant 

history of science, particularly mathematics, geometry, medi­cine and geography, . 
Actually, the scientific docu­ments make up only a fraction of some twenty thousand classical, mediaeval and Renaissance man­uscrip:s which are being micro­filmed at the 17th century Milan library for deposit in· the new· ,fotre Dame library, 

Richard Robison plays Claudius and Danielle Giose//i plays Ger>' trude when National Playe;.s appears in the greatest of Shakespear­ean tragedies, HAMLET. Saturday in Washington Hall, Robison is an alumnus of Notre Dame. · . 


Catholic Players Present Two Plays This Weekend ... 
The National Players touring coumpany from Catholic Univer­sity in Washington, D,C. willpre­.sent two plays by William Shake­speare during their annual visit to NotreDamethisweekencl. They will perform Twelfth Night on Friday and Hamlet on Saturday, Both performances will be in Washington Hall ·at 8:30 p,m. 
Currently celebrating its 16th Anniversary · Season, the group _has become theforemostnational 
The International Commission is sponsoring a drive to collect books for Asian students. The books, which are shipped to stu­dents throughout the Far East, should be college or secondary school books published since 1950, A collection box will be a­vailable in the International Room, Room IC of the Student Center. 
classical repertory company in America. The troupe will be play­ing here aspartofaneight-month tour of 36 states, 
Richard Robison, a graduate of Notre Dame, will playmajorrole in both productions, He will be seen as Malvolio in1\velfthNight and as Claudius in Hamlet. 
Tickets may be reserved by calling 284-7054 between 1:00 and 
4:00 
daily. The Washington Hall box office will be open daily at 

4:00 
p.m. Tickets are priced at $2,00 and all seats are reserved, Reduced priceforfaculty and stu­dents at Notre Dame· and St, Mary's is $1.50. 


Cyr's Barber Shop 
lUICHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
100-102.. South Main Street· Opposite Court House .South Bend, lnc!iana 


If You Like: 
Skiing?-Girls?-Surfing?-Girls?~Racing? Jumping?-Traveling?-Laughing?-Girls? 
Office work In Europe is interesting 
SUMMER JOBS 


IN EUROPE 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg -You can earn $300 a month working in Europe next summer. The American Student Informa­tion Service is also giving travel grants of $390 to the first 5000 applicants. Paying jobs in Eu­rope include office work, resort, sales, farm, factory, child care and shipboard work just to men­tion a few. Job and travel grant applications and complete details are available in a 36-page illus­trated booklet which students may. obtain by sending $2 (for the booklet and airmail postage) to Dept; J, ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchyof Luxembourg. Interested students should write immedi­ately. 

· 
THEN DON'T MISS WARREN MILLERS 

THE SKIERS 
Sponsored by the N.D. Ski Club Tomorrow, Thursday, January 14 -8:30 P.M. Stepan Center 
Members t .50 
Students I 1, 00 
·DOUBTING THOMAS? 

HOPEFUL AGNOSTIC?. 
' Christianity has more to offer than.,hope, it has positive proof in the form of a MIRACLE which wirs foretold, described· and is intensely personal. Ask the Religious Leaders or send me a card marked ESP-17. My reply is free, non-Denominational, Christian; Martyn· W. Hart, Box 53, Glen Ridge, N. J. 07028 (USA). 





... 
.... 
ls 
.... 1 
Veteran And Youth 
<' 
r 

Spark Wrestlers

f.'w 
l 
by Bill John { Anders; filling the 130 lb. andl37 
After a opening meet loss to lb, classes are Sophomores Tim 

..,,, Western Michigan University (8-Wagner and Ted Purvin: exper­
.., 21), The 1965 Notre Dame Wrest­ienced Senior, Mike Eiben is the ,. ling Team came back to score a ok man fn' the 157 lb, division: So-, strong (20-6) victory overa team phmores Mike Parker and Bill from Valparaiso University. Schickel are contesting for the
~1 With what has to be considered 177 lb. position. .J¾ a young team, NotreDame hasthe With the end of the football sea-­potential . of achieving one of its son, team Ca~ainDickArrington best records in recent years. has returned to fill the heavy­Fine performances have been weight class.It was Arrington who made this year by Sophomores· represented Notre Dame in the Clete Willems (147 lb.) and Jim'. N, C. A.A. Wrestling Tournament Bowers (167 lb.), bothunbeatenin last year. It is· with his inspira­dual _meet competion. tion and leadership that the team Except for two cases the other is looking forward to one of its Captain Dick Arrington. maneuvers for position. (photo by Bill McGuire) weight classes are manned by best seasons. wrestlers in· their first year of The next dual meet will be a­colle!;iate competition. In the 123 gainst Wabash. College, Feb. 4, lb, class is Sophomore Marshall. in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Non-Varsity Athletics Await Challenge II 
by Bill Brown primary level and ''alf"other or-clubs comprise the second level ganizations are independent," of participation, and independent 
Monday marked the begiIU1ingof says D. J. "Nappy" Napolitano, team-clubs form the third. Unlike the 1965 intramural basketball director of inter-hall athletics. the halls, the geographical-social program, with over one thousand During the course of one school clubs (Met Chili, Chicago Chili,· students participating in the cam-year, "Nappy" directsthe opera-etc.} and independent team-clubs pus leagues. Basketllallisbutone tion of.inter-hall tournaments to (Hockey Club, Lacrosse Club, aspect of an extensive intramural decide the hallchampioninfifteen etc.) do notcompeteamongthem­and non-varsity athletic program different sports•. Near the close selves, for an· award comparable involving over 40% of the student of the school year, "Nappy" con-to the President's Trophy, How­body in 21 different sports. This sults his recordsto determine the ever, twice during the year the year the intramural Program is hall whose members accumulated three ·1evels merge to determine looking to the future, withexpec-the greatest number of points the campus championshipintwo tations that Challenge II will pro-from the various inter-hall con-sports--basketball ana softball. 
·vide much-needed facilities to tests, which begin with tackle Otherwise competition is limited further expand competition~ football in September and end· to the hall.level, 
Non-varsity athletics are split with golf in May. The winninghall Although Notre Dame men seem into three levels: (1) the hall level, receives the coveted President's to get more ·exercise than their then the_campus dubs, andfinal-Trophy. Last year's wiIU1er was ·counterparts on other ·college .ly the independent team-clubs. Morrissey Hall. .:campuses, Mr, Napolitano reco­
. The· residence halls occupy the Numerous geographical-social gniz.es a need for more activity. · ''One hundred percentparticipa-
BadgerS Swamp -~an_kers 
!C::vi!~o~ht~a:~f::.e~l~c~~= to available statistics, overfour­cord last season, including a 57-ty percent of the student body
by !\'.like Granger 

38 victory over the Irish, The. tried at least oneofthetwenty­Wildcats have several standout one sports offered; but inadequate Shortly before the Christmas
.... swimmers backfromlastseason. communication and a lackofade.,.
vacation, the Notre Dame swim­All-American Richard Abraham,· quate facilities have kept a goodming team suffered their first . defending Big Ten Champion in· program from becoming a greatloss to an up-and-comingVarsity the 50 freestyle and a fifth place1one. But ''Nappy" believes thatsquad at Wisconsin University, 

80-27~ . 

finisher in the N.C.A.A. finals, the advent ofChallengell, with its leads the Northwestern attack. new dormitories and spaciousIn their victory, Wisconsin Other top swimmers include field house, will abolish most of·broke six meet records.They had· 
j
freestylers John Kastner, Joe the current problems and hcipe­two double individual winners, 
Griffin, and Nick Faul: two good fully swell all levels of competi­lMark Marsh and Gil Lacroix. 
divers: plus a good backstroker· tio1: to one hundred per cent cap.. . ' i
Marsh won the 50 and the 100 yard · • a city · 
and llreastroker, •
· freestyle events andLaCroixwon the 200 Individual'Medley and the 500 yard freestyle. Lacroix set new meet records in both of his. 
. events. 

Encouraging times were turned . in by many Notre Dame swim­mers. Sophomore Boll Husson was clocked at· 2:24.2 for a 200· yard llreastroke, fastest time lly 
· an Irish breastroker. Jack Staly turned in a creditable time in the 200 freestyle and Jack Stoltz 
swam a fast 500 yard freestyle. •·Capitol-Records 
ANY L.P. ALBUM 
• R.C.A. Records Notre Dame captain, Rory Cul­
FROM O.UR HUGE
• M.G.M. Records • Decca Records 
hane, turned in his usualfine per­

STOCK ON SALE FOR.
0 Mercury Records 
· • Dot Records
formance•.. 


•.Kapp Records . 
• A.B.C. Records


ONE PENNY
• Verve Records 
• 'Kiddle Records
The University of Wisconsin built a new eight· lane r,ool 
• Sound Track Albums

• Comedy Albums 
wlth a separate diving area 
last year. An increase in its 

When you buy one in same 
·recruiting program has_ btought 


price range at Reg. Mfg. sug•
"' 
' 
DIAMOND NEEDLES $388
better swimming talent to Wi•~

.i· 
90s_tod Hat price. 
REG. 9.95 OUR PRICE ..
consin. .On the average the Wisconsin ieam, made r1.p of 20 men nearly al/ on st.hofars'bip, practice 2J hours a VJ eek.. No• tre Dame practices l½ hours daily. Team member,1. freely ad­mit that until Notre . Dame 







unt record shop
swimmers get more t:o-opera• ,

... 
tion from our adminisuatlon as 

WEEKDAYSTOREHOURS . 

'·~ 
many other universities do, our 1 
Open Mon,, thvrt,, frL.9:30 to 1130 
swimmers will ct/ways b~ in• 

214 SO. MICHIGAN ST~: 233-4585 . -. .. . ; ~-. 
. ]'.uH., Wed., Sat. 9130'to 5;:SO ·

·\.;;. 
Ierior to.· Big Ten competition• . 

. e 
Notre Dame willtraveltoNorth­western University, Saturday.·. Northwestern compilled a ·5-4 re­



) . 

• London Records 



~ 'i ~ 
'
Cagers Bounce Back .. 
,.1 

After Rough Holidays 
, his worst defeats since coming to the best scoring balance of any by Mike Read 
Kentucky, lll -en. This was the team in the country, Walt Sahm most pointseverscoredonaKen­leads·all scorers with 221 points
After a Christmas tour which 
tucky team and it markedthefir­· and a 20 point average, He isfol­
produced only one win m four 
st time in 10 years that Notre lowe·d closely by Ron Reed with 

. trles, the Notre Dame basketball 
Dame has been able to beat the 215 points (19,5), Jay Miller with
team has bounced back to startthe 
Wildcats, 212 (19.2), and Larry Sheffield

New Year on the right foot by pos­
Going into this week's games a­with 206 (18,7). The team as a 
.ting two conVincingtriumphsover 
gainst St, Louis on Monday and whole is averaging %,8 ppgwhile
Western Michigan and the Uni-
Butler at home next Saturday.No­the opposition is almost 10 points
versity of Houston. The two vic­
tre Dame possesses what maybe behind, hitting for 87,1,tories brought the season record 
up to 7-4, 

Identical 29 point outputs by Ron Reed and Larry Sheffield carried the Irish to their first win ofl965 as they rolledoverthe Broncos of Western 1vlichigan 115-87 on Mon­day January4,Thelrish, whodur-•' ing the holidays lost two heart­breakers to St, John's (16-72) and Bradley (74-72), never left any doubt as to the outcome of this one. They grabbed the lead right from the start, rolledup63 points in the first half, and hit the cen­tury mark with 9:50 to go before the second unit led by Kevin Har­


' . ~ ' .
dy came in to finish up.

Ron Red dunks the ball duri11g the Western Michigan Game. ·Note 
Then on Saturday night, Houston 

the score; Reed's two points have 11ot registered yet. 
entertained the Irish in the first 

· . · . (photo by Pat Ford) 
meeting ever bet\veen the two 

schools, and if Houston was

Fencers, DeCicco · the 
· perfect host, Notre Dame was anything but the perfect quest as
Enthusiastic About '65. they rudely polished off the Cou­
gars 110-80, Walt Sahm led the

Notre Dame's most successful Backed up by juniorsJohn Bishko 
charge 'with 37 points to match

varsity sport in recent years is and Norm Laurendeau, foil is 
Larry Sheffield for the season's

about tobeginanew season.Coach probably the deepest and most ex­
highest output, and Jay Millerfol­

Mike DeCicco is again optimistic perienced weapon of the three, 
lowed him in scoring with 29

about the fortunes of this year's Sabre, headed by co-captain points, Jump ball during the Western Mic igan game. Irish pictured from
edition.of swordsmen despitetlie Mi~ Dwyer and seniors John The Houston game marked the L. to R. J. Miller, R. Reed, W. Sahm, L. Scheffield.
loss of key men in all three wea­Geary· and Joe Malone, is making 6th time in 11 ·games that Notre (photo by Pat Ford)
pons through graduation. an excellent bid for tophonors on Coach DeCicco has his work cut the squad. Sabre also has good 

Dame has scored over 100 points Hockey vi·es For Recogn;tt·on 
out for him in his attempt to_iead and the secondtimethattheyhave . Ill
depth with juniors JohnKlier and 
the Irish past last year's out­Gary Armstrong and sophomore done it on the road. The first was · 
standing 15-2 mark and excellent Pat Korth. during the Christmas trip before By Dan Ferguson Blitzkrieg 
. fifth-place finish in the NCAAfi­Epee, which suffered mosti:h­a crowd ofl8,500iriFreedomHall The return of 13 1 f 
· L · ·11 K k h p ayers rom What happened? was about the 
nals at Harvard University, En­rough the graduation of .30-bout m owSVI e, ent_uc Y, w ere last year's traveling squad has only sound a stunnedlrish hockeythusiasm concerning the upcom:.:. winners Dick Marks and Steve they rolled up lll pomts on Kent-raised the hopes of the season's squad could whisper afterbeinging season is not waning, how­Dreher, has only two experienc­ucky to hand Adolph Rupp one of struggling hockey squad, Coach mauled by the Northern Illinoisever, either on the part of Coach 
ed seniors returning, It is hoped 
Richard Bressler confided that 
Huskies 12-3 at Elmhurst Satur­,!-}

DeCicco or the team. 
that Paul Jock and Tom Buhl will he was impressed with overall 
day night, ~ IFoil led by returning All­
gee needed help from ex-foilman potential of the team, but felt that 
As they then knew, the Huskies >,. .•

American Bill Ferrence, co-caP­Frank Hajnik, Bill Ott and·. Andy even the rough diamonds needed ;
were no team to take lightly. Un­tain Joe McQuade, · and senior ·z.arow, polishing. 

beaten in six starts this season, \l', \;Mike McQuacle seems to .be the a

The Irish season ~gins with Notre Dame was just one more ofstrong point of this year's team. Paul Beliveau, center on . the 
tough Oberlin team onJanuarylS a growing list of victims. Infact,first line for the second straight 
year, was elected captain this .in their last five games, no oppo­
nent has come within four goals of


Phil Sheridan--'65 Captain 
past week. Several years ofMas­matching their total point score,sachusetts hockey under his belt, Game conditions gave them quite 

"Most of you probably don't Fighting Irish. combined with hisnaturalability, know who I am. I play opposite A personable, quiet young man make Paul the top player on the . an edge, Since they provide refe­
rees, only one showed--you need Jack Snow. ontheline.'' So said from Rutherford,New Jersey, the team. 


three, When they had the punch in ,.

Philip Francis Sheridan shortly . 6ft~4in., 220lb.endisrespect­before the ThanksgivingVacation ed by his teammates for his con­Sophomores Tom Heiden and the Irish zone with the score tied 4. I 
;,.
before a cheering cro,vd of 500 sistent all out effort, Phil gradu­Bob Wilkes round out the first 1-1 at the end of the first period, _ line. Tom will be in his second the time-keeper obligingly allow­i.: ;
students gathered infront of Pan-, ated from St. Mary'sHighSchooI, season, while Bob ·is one of the ed the clock to run an extra five ·gbom HalL Twoweekslater, Phil where he won ten varsityletters: brighter newcomers, minutes until' they scored. Off-Sheridan was. named to succeed four as a baseball catcher, three .sides and penalty calls varied inJim Carroll as captai.nofthel965 · as abasketballforward, andthree Playing football in the offse·ason their strictness, depending fan­in football. He captainedhisfoot­is one of defenseman Leo Col­tastically on whether or not the1.all team in both his junior and Hn' s hobbies, and he, along with whistle was frozen.
Senior years, and was basketball junior Tom Badia, are paired as However, Notre Dame had quite captain his Senior year, Irish the top set of back-up men. Grad a period lapse,
second as theycaptain Sheridan received All­• Student Hank Ritter will start in were out-scored 6-2, A shot from . State honors inall three sports, the nets, as the most consistent the blue-line by Tom Badia and tl Phil is looking forward to next _ performer of the group of sixwho two scores by captain Paul Beli­, season vied for t~e spot. veau ended the Irish scoringat the ., ' I 

-+ ...
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE '65 Larry Scheflield prepares to end of this•second peryod. Des­
shoot, (photo by Bill McGuire) On the second line are forwards \
pite an increasingly roughphysi~Stan Colligan,· Rich Payeur, and

Sept. 18 At California cal game, a Northern player still· " t,
Dick Bergen, and defensemen managed to slip the puck behind ~"· fr

Sept. 25 At Purdue BASKETBALL Jack Courtney and Dick Pietr­., :_i;.
hapless goaline HankRitterwhile ~­fitta, The third groug contains lying on the ice, ~:..? ";

Oct, 2 Northwestern at Notre Jan. 16 Butler H · Dan Vale, Phil Quinlan, and Tom ~ i
Changes and improvements

Jan. 19 Purdue T Witliff operating up front, while ...
Dame must be shown for this Sunday's

Jan, 23 Toledo H John. Jacoboice and Dan Fergu­,,; :
crucial meeting with the AirFor­' 

Jan. 30 Illinois A son' cover, Subs Ed O'Neill, Joe <>.>­
Oct, 9 At Army. ~ ' 
c:_e Academy,

Feb, l Wisconsin H Orloff, and Bob Buldin round out Oct, 23 USC at N,D,. Feb, 6 Detroit T the squad. 
'64 Stars Now Pros
Feb, 8 Butler T 
Serious practice began only

, Feb, 10 · DePauI. A iii
Oct, 30 Navy at N,D, John Huarte---New York Jets l'
after the Chrf stmasvacation, and

Feb, 13 Ohio University H "­
although Norther Illinois aP­Jack Snow---LosAngeles Rams Nov, 6 At Pittsburgh Feb, 17 Bowling Green T peared on the schedule last Sat­Norm Nicola-----Buffalo Bills

Feb, 20 Duke A 

urday, the club is pointing for Paul Costa ------Buffalo Bills
Feb, 24 NewYorkUniversity N

Nov, 13 Nonh Carolina at_N.D. 
their Sunday afternoon game with John l'v1eyer--St. Louis Cardinals
Feb, 27 DePaul . T 
Jim Snowden -WashingtonMar, 1 Creighton H the Air Force Academy. TheNov. 20 Michigan State at N,D, Redskinsmatch begins at 1:00 p,m. at the Jim Carroll---NewYorkGiants · *A -Chicago Stadium city · municipal rink, HowardNov; 27* ., At Miami (Fla,) Arrington, Carey, and Longo · N .Madison Square Garden Park, which is located on the bus

4

*Saturday-night game Drafted as futures
line into town, 
Foto News 1Litho • Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 



Phil SbeT/dan ~ '65 Captain(Photo by Bill McGuire) 





