A. 
,.. 
,. ....­
.. 
.. 
'" ,,.
iJ ·~­J 
nt 
~ . 
' 1; 
...·­
.... 
... 

Sign Up Or Get Out Says ROTC Contract 
s1m111ar to the Halloway ProgramBy Rick Schlee! 
in the NROTC, it is assumedthat Under latest ROTC legislation a board wm be established to signed by Pres, Johnson on Oct­interview those young men with 
ober-13,. 1964, ROTC juniors and the education and leadership qua­
senior-sin all branches must sign lifications necessaryfor acareer 
a new comract by Dec. 12, To as a military officer. 
continue in the programs. The basis for awarding scholar­Under this contract, they will ships to the various universities receive a monthly retainer pay of 
is being studied. Col. John Ste­$40 a month, representing a $13 
vens, U.S.A., Commandant of increase, an increase in summer 
Notre Dame's AROTCunit, hares camp pay from $78 to $120 a 
that the awards will be made on month and a incr-ease in travel 
the basis of previous output of allowance to and from summer 
ROTC graduates --a catagory camp from $,05 to $.06 a mile, 
in which Notre Dame leads the A scholar-ship progr-am is also corps,
being developed for the Army and Also being considered are Air Force ROTC; it will eventu­changes in the present ROTC cur­ally result in 5500 scholarships riculum by the l\1arshon Commit­being made available for select­tee at Ohio State, Two courses ed personnel nationally, Since of action might be opened to ROTC the program is intended to be units. Aside from the regular four year course a new two yearBirth Control course is being considered in which the freshman and sopho­~amed Topic more years of studies or basics course wlll be given in a six­·OJ Symposium week summer camp pre-empting 
the junior and senior years,On Saturday, Dec, 5, the Acade­It might also be possible for anmic Commission and NFCCSwill institution to have both a two andjointly sponsor an Advent Sym­four year course but current leg­posium. Entitled "Birth Con­islation indicates that scholar­trol -Its Implications for the ships will only be available forContempor-ary Catholic," it con­those participating in a four yearsists of four lectures presented curriculum.
in the Memorial Library Audl­
The main purpose of this, thetorium as a part of the Distin­
Revolution Not Communist, 
ROTC VitalizationAct, according guished Lecture Series. 
to Colonel Stevens, is to "in­The Symposium will attempt to crease the. attractiveness of the prerent a complete approach to 
Cuban Reporter Claims 
ROTC program with the hope ofbirth control by considering both · extending the number of quali­the theoretical and practical as­By Stephen Feldhaus gain drawing from history and the we had failed. He qualified this · fied officers for service in the rects of the subject and by try­beneficial changes in govern­statement by adding that he be-Armed Forces."
ing to correlate the two. Sever­Herbert L. Matthews, a senior ment, society, etc. that resulted lieves that the Cubans are not Upon signing the contract, theal noted sreakers of liberal in­editor of the New York Times from the· French Rev(!lution, he temreramentally su!tedforCom-student is obliged to accept a
clination will present the pro­who covered the Cuban revolu­stated that the revolution in Cuba munism, and that Communismas commission in his branch of ser­
gram. 
tion, lectured Tuesday evening in is benefitting the ordinaryCuban. such will not· stick in Cuba, He vice, A caqet who willfully vio.:.
Dr, Louis Dupre, a visiting pro­
the Library auditorium on "Cuba sees Communism as a tool used !ates the terms of the contractfessor of theology at George­Today." He stressed in his talk Citing such'examples as irn-by the Cuban revolutionaries to (declines his commission, drops
town University, will discuss that Fidel Castro and his asso­proved public housing, sanitation, help further their social uphea-out of the progr-am, gets married)moral and theological consider­ciate s did not plan and carry out education. tax structure andmore val, not as an intrinsic part of it. Is subject to two years' active ations of the problem. Dr-. Du-· a communist revolution, but rath-· :even dlstribution of wealth, he Mr. Matthews ended his speech duty immediately as an enlisted
pre is widely published in this 
er that Cominunism came about managed to indicateinrnanyways on an ominous note. -He warned man.
field, his latest book, Contra­as a result of the revolution. the people in Cuba are be_tter off complacent Americans that the If the contract is not signed by ception and Catholics, re-
today than before the revolution. the Dec 12 1964 cutoff date the 
. commending a new approach to Noting the parallels between the world ls no longer lookingtoU.S, • ' 
Noting thatU.S. mismanagement current third or fourth year stu­the idea of birth control. French and the Cuban revo­in Cuba eventually led tothecor-capitalism as the only possible dents will be automatically ruled The psychological effects of lutions, Matthews stated that both economic structure, and that CU­
rupt Batista regime, he made it ba is a good example to the ineligible to continue in the pro­·birth control will be covered by unleashed forces beyond the con­
clear that he felt Communism gram
Dr. John w. Higgins. He is a trol of those who began them, In could not be found at fault where masses • everywhere of a work-• practicing psychiatrist andafac­Cuba, Communism was one of ing, non-capitalistic society. Comm'rs Chosen 
ulty member of the St. LouisUn­there forces, brought about not 
iversity Mecllcal School. by intention but rather through a On November 8, five freshmen
An obstetrician-gynecologist in dynamic growth during the revo­chosen activities commis­
Chicago, Dr, Ralph Kenck, will lution. were explain the medical aspect of sioners for the Freshmen Class J.\.1atthews, who has talked with by KenLiss, Freshmen Class Co-,
birth control. He has done simi­lar-work in Chicago ·parishes Castro many times in his role as ordinator. through the Catholic Family In­reporter-, gave his audience a viv­The students selected are: John id picture of the Cuban leader, Moran; academic commissioner;
formation Service, Dr. Donald Barrett, professor Describing him as vain, unor­t.Uke Berkourkk, Freshmen 
of sociology at Notre Dame, will ganized, rash, anti-social andin­prom commissioner; MikeJor­attempt to bridge a gap existing dividualistic,. Matthews pointed dan, religious commissioner; in birth control today, This area out that he was definitely not a Jeff Stuart, athletic commission­of Dr. Barrett's interest is the communist in the Moscow sense er, and Jim. Canastan, publicity 
of the word, but that he had re­commissioner,
difference between both the med­
ical and theological development verted to Communism when it Coordinator Liss plans to keep 
appeared to him the only way out close
of birth control and the actual administrative watch ori 
practice of it withing the family. of CUba' s economic and social · frosh activities until the hall pre­The Symposium will_ be attended difficulties~ sidents and senators become by representatives of NFq:::s familiar with their various fl.lllc­members in the Indiana-Ohio re­Taking a pragmatic point of tions and duties. He then intends gion: in addition, it is open to all view, Matthews sees the Cuban _-to step aside and leavethefresh­interested students. The specif­revolution as having a salutary men in complete control of their 
effect on the people of Cuba, A-class affairs. ·ic · time of each lecture will be 
announced later. 
S.B. Relations Begin .To Ease . 
· By Pat Strickler · munity relations, it was decided Northem Indiana Toll Road. have expresseo a 0esire to re-dents will . have immediately that a marker such as a blue and It was also noted at the meet-medy the dde-getting situation.· changed invitations to N~D. stu-
N.D, students may be hitch-hik-gold post could be placed at key • ing that the original rash of ar-The South Bend representatives dents for Thanksgiving dinners, ing more and disliking it less if locations where students may le-.. rests made forhitch-hildngearly were scheduled to report to Allen The Young Christian Students resolutions made last Wednesday gally thumb rides to school. in the semester has not beenfol-the outcome of the Wednesday group on campus volunteered to night go into effect, although both The places suggested for de-lowed up by further arrests. Walt conclave, . organize the development of this· student· and community repre-. singated hitch-hiking posts in-Collins of the South Bend Tri-Although other officials, such as potential vehicle for the improve­sentatives have indicated some elude the corner of Michigan Ave, bune, sltting)n at the meeting, Police Chief Irving Hampton, ment of relation between the may rather fight than switch. and LaSalle St,, Hill St, and La-said he believed PoHce Chief have also expressed a desire to school and South Bend. · In a two-hour conference be-Salle St,, Jefferson Blvd. and · Hampton was concerned with the see the hitch hiking problem AttitUdes toward ·local resi­tween representatives of theWo--Eddy St., and the corner of Ange-safety of the students, andnotwith solved, a note of warning was dents, .their transit systems and men' Division of the Chamber of·· la Blvd. and Michignn Ave. the promulgation of anti-Notre sounded -last Wednesday. Both plac.es of entertainment. These Commerce -inclucllng the mana-Also suggested was the corner Dame bias, · sides admitted that improved re-essential problems have been a ger of the Town• Tower-Motel -·. · opposite from Frankie's Restau-Both Lloyd Allen, Mayor of lations will not be achieved over-perennial bone of contention with and the Student Government Com-rant: on Notre Dame Ave,, and South Berni, and Rev. A. Leonard night; and some student repre-· · mittee forimprovedschool-com-at the South Bend exit of the Collins, C.S.C., DeanofStudents, sentatives added that not all stU-(continued on page four) 






Page 2 
The Student Senate has decided that debate upon national issues will take place. during its regular meetings on Monday nights. This is perhaps the most ludicrous idea the Senate has come up with since. its assumption that it could draw up a list of rights and grievances. 
. What makes them think that.debate 
on nadonal issues can have any rcat' 
place · in their arena? Who really 
cares what the Student Senate thinks 
about the Viet Nam situation or the­
new Russian, American and British 
Governments? 
The Senate should realize that it 
messes around with too much extran­eous business right now to concern itself with national issues. The con~ cern of the Senate should be student welfare and student problems. It · should no_t be the training ground of student politicans for national off0 
ice. If they want co debate other· 
problems than the ones arising di­
rectly .,uc of the student ,body let . 
2:30 p,m. 
. . . Forget Thqt Buzzing . 
There is .a lot .of whispering going on in the ranks these days. The new contract to be signed by all third and fourth year ROTC students is.the-oc­casion for the buzz, and some occa0 sion it is. After all, if you want to you can legally turn your back on the program an.d high~tail-it into the i-ela­tive obscurity ofa ..non-military man:• 
Your obligation to. the U.S. is now to be determinded by a signatu~e, one scratchy. little signature, -and if you choose. to· withhold it past Dec. ·12 nobody will know the difference. Well, maybe-somebody . will know -you. 
Don't play. the subject to mob men· tality on such, a· basic decision••. on 
· whether or not you are going to up­hold an ho~orable . committment you've already made, and whether or not your personal chances of evading _ a draft are more important than · the service that you owe your country. 
~. Sure there is room for plenty of ques, tioning to go on. There are the prob­lems with graduate school (although deferments are granted very. liberally by .all branches). There is the possi~ bility of marriage, career considera~ 
A ·Lingering Stench? .·· ·· 
, You can talk to anybody in Badin halland they•ll be the first to admit t~at they were bombed last Friday. 01ght. But not in anything like the usual sense• of that bit of slang. 
Actually, the hall was the target of a' HStink Bomb" delivered in the _night. The stench lingers in more ways ·than one, · 
. . . _T~is was easily the most disap­po10t1ng example of the way mis­. guided •'.hall spirit" can burst into 
· fruition. There ,have peen others. It. was a thoughtless, childlish:and dis­gusting ·affront to the residents and rectors of both halls.invol.ved and to the weekend visitors. who had to put up with.it; 
If the petty bickering and physical ··· .,raiding". that halls are now get.ting involved .iit is apt to become an es­sential part of the Stay Hall plan then we don't want anything to do with ~tay Hall._ . . 
We also don't .warit to see fine· tra• ditions trampled on .by people-who are. just plain out of control and off· 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame; Indiana 
•them join the Young Republicans (who are probably in desperate need of new members) or the Young Dem­ocrats (who probably need other than bandwagon riders) or the Political Science Academy (which .doesn•t care what party you belong to as long as you have the ability to in­telligently discuss national prob­lems). . The criticism has been long main­tained that the only re~son Student Government exists is to provide a 
WEDNESDAY.
place where aspiring politicans can find outlet. or where interested stu;. 
7:30 p,m.
_dents can learn· something about the legislative process. If this criticism 7:00 p.m. (based on the assumption that the Senate has no real meaning for' the studen't body at large; but rather just 
8:00_ p.m.exists for those students. in it) is to gain more credance1 let the Senate 8:00 p.m. di'scuss and argue national politics 
8:00 p.m.
to their hearts desire. If not, put a• 
8:30 p,m,side this silly notion and get on 
with the work at hand. · THURSDAY, •• 
Evening Meaf 
tions and· family obligations. · In short, there is a whole list of person­
7-9 p.m.al questions that should be figured out. But· they are per'sonal questions, 7:30 p.m. and__it shouldn't make any difference 
8:00 p,m.
what the .rest ~f the crowd is doing. 
Mull ,the new contract over.and 8:00 p,m. make your own decision. But before wondering about your chances of hon". 8:15 p.m. orably sneaking out of a duty you •ve 

already decided ·. upon . before now,· 
FRIDAY, 
think about the fact that the country Synposium: ''New Frontiwes in.· 
needed 21,000 new officers last 2-4 p.m. Business''
Spring and got 17,000. Instead of 
4:30 p.m. Dr, Harlyn Halvorson: "The
wondering what the. others think, -re-
Sequential Synthesis of member some of the admittedly old Enzymes in Microbial Cells" phrase_s about your duty to protect 8:15 "King Lear" freedom, applie · pie, hot-dogs and 
SATIJRDAY. , , , , , , • , , , , , •• ,.••• , , •.• NOVEMBER 21
grandmothers; and r.onsider. the chance that a few years in the mili-Washington
8:15 p.m. King Lear 
tary can be a darn exc1t1ng experi-Hall Iowa Victory Party· LaFortune
ence if · you choose to make it that 8:00 p,m, way• 
!'vIONDAY, •. ·.,,,·,,,.,.,;.,.,,,,.,,.,.,. NOVE~ER 2.3-. 
. Don•t be talked out of your contract by the chancy prospect of a "'good 6:00 p.m. Texas Chili Banquet Embers thing." . Don't let the buzz take the,' 6:30 p.m. Johnny Dee Banquet K, of c; Hall 
. place of a well-considered personal answer• 
th~ ~eep end in regards to what hall spmt means. 
A hall is a composite unit of peo­ple who are first and foremost living together as members of Notre Dame. Secondly, they are r.csidents in a par0 .icular hall--and in that hall they should be first working to improve their .hall from within, to make it a better, -more exciting and interesting place to· live, without an overly ac­tivc worry· about rivalry or supposed 
· ''.threats to position.. that come from other .halls. 
Hall spiridssuing through sensible or clever expressions is fine; there should be a lo~ .more of it. But this 
.. spirit is taking_' the wrong path if it settles irito a· primary concern for competition. with the· other members of.the N.D. community, or if,it lowers, itself to bad caste ,or physical abuse. 
This smelly ..sort of activity can· 
· rrius~rooni _just.as easily as.·· a ·con­s.tru_ctive and positive kind, ;but .. i:he . envisioned end .result sure,:.isn't a 
pretty . one: ,,,., ,, 
TUESDAY••••••••••• ., ......·••••••• ;~ ••• NOVEMBER 24 
·. 4:30 p.m. Dr, Charles Huggins: "Breast Bio, Aud, . Cancer'' · 7:30 p.m. Intrasquad Varsity Basketball Fieldhouse Game· 
OF NOTRE DAME 
Published weekly during the academic ye~r by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, Office, Poom 2A, LaFortune Student Center;. 
P.O. Box 11. . · · . · Board of Review •••• •.•• • ,Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S,C., John Gearen 
EDITOR. , • , ........ 1 ••• , • ~ , ••.•.• •·, ••• ,BARRY. JOHANSON Associate Editor:. ,-·•. , •••• , ••••••• , •••••• , • ,Grover Nix III 
News Editor: ••.•.•-~·-•••• ~.·.•.• •• ., •••••.•••••• John Buckley 
Assistant News Editor:•••••••• ·••• , • , ••• ; ••••Bob Lumpkins 
News Staff:••••••• ,Earl Guetin, Ken Krivickas, Terry Murphy,. Dan Murphy, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, Al Schulte, . Joh!i Sibley, Dick Veit. Alana McGratin 
. . . ·James Fish Sports.Editor:••••••·••• : •• :. , •. , • ·•••••••George Krusz.ewski · Sports Staff:, , ••• , -~ ~ ,Jim HemphiU, Vince Kaval, Mike Read,· Dan 
. . Ferguson, Ed Hugetz., and Mike G . Business Manager:, ••·· ••·•·••.•• .'••••• , •••••••John O'Hanlon Advertising Manager:. ; . , • , • , ••• , •• , • ; •• , •· • ,Ken Socha Advertising Sale.smem, ,·, , , , ·,., , ••• ,Cregg and Roger Barroff• Copy Editors:••• ; •• ; •••• , •••• ,BiU Metz., Lou Bartoshesky 
· Layout Editor:.·-• • ., ._.,~· ~ •· • ., •, •.• •. • .• '• .-·., •·•. ,DenntS Kern 
...Assistant Layout. Editor:, • • , , , , • , , , , •• , • , ,. ,Neil Bowen Layout Staff:. • ••••• ; ••••••• , ••.• ,·Dave Griffin, Steve Vogel . · Proofreader:,· •., , , •• -~ , , , , • ·, • ; , , , , ~ ; ·, , , .John Radosevich . · . Circulation Manager:, , .•• , ..·, , , , • , • , , • , • ,.• , , • ,Ted Purvin 
November 18, 1964 

Events Calendar 
.••••••••••.••••••••• •NOVEMBER 18 
Intrasquad Varsity Basketball Fieldhouse ·Game · · 
Dr. Madeleine Moran: "The Mem. Lib. Word Is 'Boldly': Shakes­peare as an Experimental :. 
Dramatist'' 

• Philip Mosely: "Europe and 127 Nieuw, America: Allies or Rivals?" Dr, Henrik Scholte: ••Ancient Eng. Aud. Greece" 
Red Cross Water Safety Course Rockne Pool Dr, C.L, Barber: "King Lear'' Mem. Lib, · 
• , •• • , , , , , , , , • , , , ••••• NOVEMBER 19 
Philip Mosely: "Careers In Mem. Lib. International Affairs" Iowa VictoryPartyTicket . Dining Halls 
Sales Student Football Banquet Rathskellex · 
Ticket Sales Sorin Cadet Chm: ''North By . Eng. Aud. .Northwest" (Movie) , · · 
Philip Mosely:"Soviet Foreign Mem. Lib, Policy after Khrushchev" James Sweeney: "The Waylt Art Gallery Is" "King Lear" . Washington Hall. 
Bus. Admin. Bio. Aud. 
Washington Hall 

"' 
. J 
-• 
,,, 
.,._ 1 
'-':'., 
•. .,,,. 
·r 
~~ 
~ 
.t ., 
f-­
.. 
... 

~ .l 
. J
;'l 


William Burke, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, has confirmed speculation that the. university is considering the ex­pansion of its foreign study pro­gram. Father Hesburgh had an­nounced this possibility at an earlier faculty meeting. 
Countries under seriousconsid­eration include Chile, France, Germany, _or even Japan. 
Whether or not study in any of their countries will become a reality for Notre Dame students will depend upon an evaluation of tha current Innsbruck pro­gram. Father Soleta, Vice-Pre­sident of Academic Affairs, will · be in charge of the evaluation. Dean Burke stressed that until 

.... 

this evaluation· has been made, "no decision will be reached for the present." 
Also it was stressedthat such an expansion is not seen in the near future even if all goes well: but rather, ''perhaps withing two or three college, generations." 
Regarding the Innsbruck pro­gram, Dean Burke noted that "everything is going fine at this point."· Especially encouraging is the request of the Innsbruck students that discussions of lec­ture material be held inGerman. Originally plans called for two lectures followed by a dicussion in English. 

According to DeanBurke,:'This. is real progress." 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame; Indiana in the 1964-65 Intercolligiate
Poetry Contest Held 
Poetry Congress Anthology. Selection of winners will beNotre Dame poets are invited to based upon poetic merit andparticipate in a. poetry contest chosen from colleges throughout under the auspices of the Inter­· the country. Prizes will be $25, collegiate Poetry Congress, The $15, and $10. The deadline for en­poems received will be printed try is November 23. Contribu-

Chuck says 
he paid 300 bucks less for 
his Coronet 
than you did 
You really for that turtle 
know of yours 
how to hurt a guy
\ 

,"Chuck's a swinger,"· says she. "His Coronet is quick and clean, with a lean and hungry look. It's equipped with a 426 cubic inch mill that will mock your turtle at the strip or on the street. He's got four-on-the-floor. buckets. belts. carpets, console, spinners, and a padded dash. And he said that everything but the four-speed stick and the 426 ·. was standard." Then she broke his back 
-by asking, "Didn't you pay extra for some of that jazz?" 
Don't let the truth hurt you. Better see the all-new. hot new Dodge Coronet before you buy a(cuckooJ. a (cuckoo-cuckoo), or even a (cuckoo-cuckoo-cuckoo). 

Page 3 tions are to be sent to: 
Inter-Collegiate Poetry Con­gress 528 Market Street Lewisburg, E;ennsylvania 
Further information may be ob­tained at the English Department, 

... 
? 
•"' 
, 
. 

' 
,,,..-..l 
J;: ; 

• i 
November 18, 1964 

Priest Defen!ds Rhythm But Attacks Attitudes 
by Dan Murray He also criticized the fact that only a few theologians will admit 
Father Raymond Potvin of the the population explosion may Sociology Department of the eventually reach such propor­Catholic University of America tions that familyplann!ngwillbe­defended the rhythm method of come a duty. The sociologist birth control in a lecture here praised the recent trend in the last Thursday. But the priest, Church of more emphasis on the who spoke on "Family Planning value of conjugallove in marriage and Christian Conscience", sev-rather than concern orily with the 
erely criticized Catholics for propagation of children. 
several wrong attitudes on the Father Potvin discussed his own 
subject, . theory that the basic reason for 
He pointed out that some Catho-• :;_ the failure of various methods to lies do not like being restricted limit conception, particularly by a calendar in their marital re-rhythm,-is the lack of motivation. lations but they also do not want He ascribed the high failure rate to violate the Church's ban on of Catholics in attempting birth contraceptives. They therefore control not primarily to some in­"rationali:ze by saying the Church efficiency of method but rather in theory is against family plan-to a desire to have largefamilies, ning," They go on to have large· The lecturer also presented the f!lmilies and neglect to consider population problem as being one the consequences this will have that should be of much concern to on society, believing that Provi-the United States. He expressed dence will take care of the prob-serious doubts that the American lem, But, Father Potvinempha-economy will be able to hold up sized, it is "no solution to leave under the population explosion. 
everything to the hands of God." 

Foreign Studies Face Expansion 

I . •101111 !!Ir 
November 18, 1964

Page 4 · THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana 
r 

Library Group Begins Work  
by Rick Schleef In 1%3 a new committee joined· the complex system ofunlversity  · able to all students at the main desk; a sound proof typing room and lockers in which typewriters may be stored for three or four  · of, or as many seem to think, the outmoded use of the index of for-hidden hooks in the library, Also under discussion is the  

!­
1 
\1 


... 
r.,.. 
.., 
... 
management and government., days while a student is working Kno,vn as the Student Library Co-on a theme or term report. ordinatlng Committee, it has as There are also ::emlnar rooms its main purpose, the forming of on the upper floors open to var-a link of mutual cooperation and ious academic and discussion assistance between the library groups. And an order sheet sys-and the student. tern at the main desk where the 
The committee lntendB to seek student can make suggestions re-to Inject the student point o!view · gardlng the selection of books into the formulation of library which the library needs and be policy. With the cooperation and assured that in the majority of . enthusiastic assistance of Mr. cases his suggestion will beack-Victor Schaefer, library direc-nowledged. tor, it plans to publish existing · A full list of these services is library services, to bring about to be posted by the library staff certain reforms, and to help to in the near future. institute new library policies In cooperation with the commit-Tom Brejcha is the chairmen, tee, the library intends to legis­
''The Library offers services Iature a method of group study 
which, while extremely helpful to room reservation whereby the 
the student, havebeenoverlooded rooms might be betterutilizedby 
by the University body as a more students. 
whole", says Brejcha. In the future the committee will 
These include Xerox copy ser-discuss the rather controversial 
vice at $,08 a page that is avail-questions ofbook fines and the use 
·South Bend Relations Cont'd. 
students, it was illdicated by stu­dent committee members, .Marty Stamn a member of the · student committee presentedthe students . side of the hitch-hiking dispute. Regarding students seeking rides for long trips, Mrs, Edna McNab, manager of the Town To­wer Motel on MichiganAve., said many of herguests are oftenwill­ing to take riders as they leave South Bend. She said salesmen in particular enjoy the company of another passenger, Paul · Knipper, chairman of over all student committee, is now work­ing with Mrs, McNab on the or­
. ganiz.ation of . a plan to provide such willing drivers with N;D. passengers, 
Knipper also is prerentlywork­ing on a way to improve relations / ; ,. 
between motel owners and stu­dents. A second letter to local hostelries from . Father Collins has been sent in.the wake of re­cent refusals to students apply­ing for rooms at local motels. Father Colllns first sent a letter in 1962 ill which he asked owners not to rent .rooms to students here, The latest letter asks for cooperation on both sides, and gives his approval of new poli­cies to be worked out between students and owners of the inns. 
A final suggestion was made Wednesday that more students. make it known to their rectors if they will be here over the Thanksgiving vacation; some lo­cal families have extended in­vitations to N.D. • students for Thanksgiving dillllers. · 
The most walked about 
· Slacks on Campus contain ''DACRON''® 
Hubbard Slacks 
. have a faculty for foc:hions of 65% Dacron"* polyester and 35% combed cotton. . Styled in Classic 
·plai_n front and traditio_nal Gay Blade models for wrinkle;free good looks and carefree comfort, at Better Stores everywhere. 
•Dupont's registered
tradema,k 

question of keeping the library open later than thenowestablish­ed 11:45 closing, and coordinating a possible later closing time with ,.. the present curfew system andthe cost of running the library, 
In the foreseeable future ls the possibility that a paperbacklib­racy might be. institutedina third floor room at O'ShaugnessyHall. Mr. Schaefer is concerned with employing the library to the full · benefit of the student and iswill­· ing to delegate more responsibi­lity to him to facllltate a closer connection and· spirit of coopera­don between the library and stu­dent body~ TheStudentCoorcllna­ting has now accepted this re­
. sponsibillty. · 
Canadian Prine J\,linister Lester It's pie in the eye for a· 
B. Pearson has donated 50 books mock-up of a Spartan in a to the Notre Dame Memorial lib­
pre-game rally last Sat. 
on Sorin's porch. (Voice photo by John Sawyer). 
rary. 

Math or Physics, we invite you to inquire about the opportunities at any of our three locations. AC in MILWAUKEE-our ma1n research, development and manufacturing facility. AC in BOSTON-our Research and Development Laboratory specializing in advanced inertial components; spacecraft and avionics guidance/ navigation systems. AC in LOS ANGELES-our 
· Research and Development Laboratory specializing in advanced airborne computers; ballistic missile and space booster guidance/navigation systems. For further · · information, see your college placement office regarding a General Motors/AC on-campus interview,· or write directly to Mr. G. F. Raasch, Director of Scientific and Professional Employment; 
Dept. #5753, General Motors Corporation, Milwaukee, Wis­consin 53201. PhDs, please note: Positions are available in all three AC locations for PhDs, depending on concen­tration of study and area of 


interest. You are invited to · .AC SPARK PLUG contact Mr. Raasch for addi-Tho ElectrohlCI Dlvlilon 
of Geheral Motors

tional information. An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Thursday, Deceµiher 3,.1964, 
R. W. Schroeder 
Sure, everybody's got a career program. But we think you'll find ours a little more stimulating, more reward­ing, and at least intriguing enough to spend the next minute or so reading about it. 
We call it'our "Career Acceleration Program." In it, you'll work on such advanced projects as an avionics system for supersonic aircraft, a guidance/navigation system for the Apollo Command Module and LEM, and a new guidance system for the Titan Ill space launch 
·vehicle. ··· Seven hours a day you'll work on a specific project. You'll spend one hour each day in formal class work.. These classes include courses in Inertial Instruments, Inertial Guidance, Digital Computers, Advanced Tran­sistors,· Advanced Servomechanisms, Integrated Cir­
cuits, Space Mechanics, plus other mathematics and undergraduate·disciplines as required. We also have aTuition Refund Plan that pays all of.your 
tuition ·costs upon satisfactorily completing college• level courS'es of study' undertaken voluntarily. Our "in­
.. plant" evening educational program offers additional opportunities for technical improvement. Ifyou are completing your BS or MS degree·in EE, ME, · 
. . . 

·CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 


November 18, 1964 THE VOICE, Nc,tre Dame, Indiana .Page 5 
Pres. Medal Plan Ok'ed by Sm.,cte 
The poltcy stating selection pro-which students can achieve dis­· the only amendment added to the ceclures for the President's Med-tinction, and excellence in the proposed policy. allion was passed unanimously at various forms in which it isach-The members of the Selection 
. the Senate Meeting Nov. 9. The ieved on this campus.'' Board, all of whom must be Jtm­President's Medalllon was insti-The p,reamble to this policy· iors, will reduce the number of tuted on October 12 to replace the states that the senate has estab-· applicants to approximately 40, Who's Who award for outstanding lished the President's Medallion based on the letters of application seniors. as an awardto graduating seniors 
submitted. These lettersmaybe_Father Hesburgh, whose duty ls who have made significant acade­written by the applicant himself as President of the University to mlc and extra-curricularcontri-or by a friend. If the letter is . define the criteria for selection butlons and "who have displayed 
by a friend of the applicant and of the Medallion winners suggest-those qualities oi Christianchar­
if it lsfound to be deficient in con­ed the following: "I believe the acter, integrity and leadership tent, · the. Student Board, who medallion should be conferred consistent with the Notre Dame 
should be familiar with the appli­upon that Notre Dame studentwho ideal.'' cants, is authorized to ask the personifies the highest qualities The award will be made to 
student nominated to "submit a that one should look for at this uo less than 20, nor morethan25 
letter in greater detail." These 

University. Certainly among seniors. The Selection Board 
letters should contain "all the 

Doug Lovejoy, Army Brigade Commander, signs his
these should· be academic ach-Consists oi representatives of: qualities and activities of the sen­ievement on a high level, evidence "Band, Blue Circle, Dome, Glee ior which make him worthy ofthe new contract as Jim Ronay, left, and John Plunkett of good character and moral re-Cltib, Hall President's Council, 
award.'' await their turn. (Voice Photo by John Sawyer)
sponsibility in his relationship to ·Monogram Chili, Scholastic, Stu­Two interviewing boards, 
con-. the student community at Notre dent Senate, Voice, WSNDandthe sisting of seven men from the 
Dame, leadership in some sign-representatives of each college selection board, will interview 
Rabbi Lectures
ificant form of student activity. as chosen by their respective the remaining applicants, and the · 
and general recognition of all deans . in consultation with the final list will be presented to the . !or classllturgicalcommission­by Ray Foerythese qualities on behalf of the· chairman of the college• s student President of the University for er, who introduced Rabbi Parz.en. 
student body, In other words, I advisory boards.'' The latter part . approval. After this, "The ann-After noting the rather long andFor the first time inNotreDame ... should think that the student concerning· the relection of reP­ouncement of the award shall fol­ambiguous topic on which he washistory, a· sp9kesman from theshould make the choice. What I resentatives of each college as low immediately.'' 
supposed to talk. the Rabbi open­Jewish faith

believe you are reallylookingfor was sponsored by ed his remarks by saying that he students of the university, is distinction within that orderin did-not choose the subject, "and
ND Med School? Last Wednesday night Rabbi 
.;; Victory Dance ~at. Maurice Parzen, sponsored by further-more, I am not going to Ing, explained Beichner, 'You speak on it.'' His main ~rpose,
Is Notre Dame going to have a · the junior class, delivered a lec­
he explained, would be to intro­

The Social Commission is spon-graduate school· of ~dicine? see,' he goes on, 'for a medical ture entitled"The Common Path: soring a Victory Party Saturday 'Certainly. not in any forseeable school, you not only need a lot of The Judieo Christian Tradition" duce to the Christian some of the night in Lafortune Studellt Cen-future,• said Father Paul Beich­specialized equipment and per­in the Pope John XXIII Disting­important elements of Jewish be­
. liefs.

ter from 8:00 to 11:30. The Letter-ner, Dean of Notre Dame's grad­sonnel, but you also need a hos­uished Series at the libraryaudi.­
men Will play for the dance. uate School. It would be more pital in which to work. Without torium. The Jewish faith is a book faith, This is the first victory party expensive to construct and equip such a hospital, there can be no The Pope John Series was de­which centers around the Torah this year, compared to the five · a medical· school here than it med school. It would be like signed to develop the ecumenical and seeks toexpla!nandinterpret 
the -v,ritings within this sacredheld last year. Last year's part-would be to send all of our pre­trying to have a school of ocean­spirit, and itwaswiththisinmind book.

ies lost money,· because of low. med students elsewhere, at our· ography here -where would we that the class presented the talk. attendance. expense, for their iredicaltrain-get the ocean?.' explained Harry McDonaugh, jun-
MICHIGAN 
! in11ites you to a-
SKI 
_EKEND 
... 
, I 
e The Paulist Father is a modern . man in every sense of the word. He 

.,.. ... 
,.. 
is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Catholic Amer• icans. He is a missionary to his own 

.where the boys where the where the 
· people -the American people. He
and girls are snow is accommodations a.re utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to
Join the-migration to _Mic~igan's snowy slopei., and 
help further his dedicated goaL 

winter sports spots. Skiing ·and winter fun for, all. 
• If the vital spark of serving God Come by car, .bus, train, or pla~e-attractive rates. through man has been ignited in 
you, why not pursue an investiga­One easy price for complete ski weeks or tion of your life as a priest? The ·
ECONOMICAL 
-Paulist Fathers have developed an 
package rates th~t 
weekends includes· all your · lodgir:-g, meals, aptitude test for the modern man .interested in devoting his life to'
include everything lifts, rental equipment and instruction. 
God. This can be a vital instrument · to help you make the mosUmpor­

f ,: · . · · · . · · · . . l tant decision of. your lite. Write for 

it today.l For free Michigan Ski Map, fill out coupon and· mail to: NAM · t 
·, MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL ADDRESS__________ I NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR · 
I I PAULIST fAT HERS · 
I Room 85, Stevena T. Maeon Bulldlng, Lanelng 26, Michigan CITY, ZONE, STAT"'-----~----------I 
. . . . I 415 WEST 59th STR~ET
L. , .. _: --: .. -----___.__________ .----.---------.----------.--._J NEW .YORK, N. Y. 10019 



Page 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame 1 Indiana November 18,· 1964 
Band Unveils New Drums At Michigan ·state Halftime 
in a horizontal ora vertical posi­The Notre Dame band introduc­tion, or it can spin.

ed a new set of marching tympani 
The Notre Damehandisthefirst

drums last Saturday at the Mich­band in the country to use the new igan State game. This is one of tympani, The band has, in the many percussion innovations the past, introduced high-stepperband has made. 
drum carries, one-headed bassThe new instrument is called a drums (including the world's lar­Roto-Spln Marching Tympani by ge st), and regulartympaniduringits designer, Mr. Ralph Kester of its halftime shows.

South Bend. It !eatures five sin­The new tympani are still in the gle-headed drums of different experimentation stage so that the sizes, all mounted on a specially band can determine if they arebuilt carriage, more maneuverable and musical-­Each drum is tunable toa differ­ly resourceful than the oldent note, and thus.the drums are tympani.
called tympani, even though they do not have-the kettledrum ap­
Stay-hall· Plan 

pearance usually associated with tympani. Each drum can be held Dave Clennon (King Lear) confronts Car9lyn Jaskunas (Goneril) while Terry FrankMaj Be Delayed (the fool) sits between them and members of Lear's guard look on in the University · Theotre1s production of King Lear. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire) <Mt
Nest Monday, the StudentSenate 
for 
is scheduled to hear t_he proposal on Stay-Hall Residence from a
campus 

Tricks & Good_ King Clennon
committee headed by Nick Sordi, 
The special provisionofthispro­
posal will be the inclusion of
knights 

.: . freshmen in the plan. 
Move Lear Along to Success 

....and da s 

Post-Grad 
slackshll by 
11111 
® 
You're probably too tall to fit into a suit of armor but just right for the long and iea n look of these pants. Post-Grads trim you up and taper you down. They're noble and mobile and absolutely au then-tic. Neat belt loops. Narrow-but-not-too-narrow cuffs. Sh aped on-seam pockets. You can look better than Gal­ahad for a pittance since they cost but $6.98 a pair in 65% Dacron* 35% Cotton. Buy'emand yoicks! ­
'DuPont's Reg. TM to, its Polyester Fiber 
But as late asSlllldaynlght, ·sordi said that he wasn't sure the pro­posal will be ready for the meet­ing. His committee has been gathering facts and details, and 

. has had difficulty handling them all with a final plan. 
Two weeks ago, Sordi met with John Gearen, Dr, Robert Christ­in and Dr. Donald Sneigowski of the English department, andRev. Daniel O'Neill, C,S.C. and Rev, Gerald Wilson, C.S.S., in the first · meeting of the Student Faculty Administration Board, at which they discussedthe proposed stay­hall plan. The main result was· a formulation of arguments for both sides of the question whether to include freshmen in the sys­tem, 

I· Improve yourself with ;;. ~ Barnes & Noble's §" famous educational 
i 

I
~ 

This card 
paperbacks on the
i i 

wi,11 save you,·money
following subjects. 
I
" 
i 
" :~
i
&
I
"ff. 
:::: 
r. 
j fi[
;
i. 
I
I· 
i 
~ 
i 
~ 
.I
III 
~ 
By Jack Quine 
The University Theatt"!:! produc­tion of King Lear was a splendid kaleidoscope of pageantry. and color and sound. The play moved from the pomp of the beginning to the pathos of the end through all the eye and catching tricks that Father Harcey could devise, most of them effective and dramatic. 

Not only was all this· color pleasing and interesting in itself, · but it framed and clarified the action. This was a good means of . leading the · audience through the. dizzying tide of dialogue, 
l\-1any of the devices used were worth a thousand words. After Gloucester's eyes had been put out, for example, his chair was overturned, and helayonhisback in bloody and helpless humilia­tion, a stark picture of man'sin-_ humanity, Again, at the end, the mournful owering and parading of the flags gave striking visual em­phasis to the tragedy of Lear's death, The entire movement of the play was a pleasing poetry· giving clear expression of the action. · 
In all this blaze of action, how­ever, it seemed that character development was progressing at a stepped-up rate, The play· ' moved along rapidly, and certain small parts were cut,· all at the expense of truly believable char­acter development, Even the school of hard knocks requires time before its lessons can sink in, and it seemed that characters 
The present exhibit iri the Uni­versity Art Gallery is a collec­tion of paintings and prints by Don Vogl, of the art department, were a little too quick to learn. In general, characterizations, while clearly defined, were 1n danger of becoming carlcatui-es, because of the accelerated pace of the play. 
Hats off, of course, to Dave Clennon; who as Lear displayed not only a careful attention to every detail of portrayal, but al­. so a lyric feeling for the part. The seriousness with which he. takes his acting assignments has again borne fruit in afine display of subtltty 1n dialogue and move­ment, From the beginning, the audience had confidence in Clen­non, and sympathy• for Lear. 
Pat Kelly gave a uniformly 
· .strong portrayal of Edgar, and came through particularly well in the guise of mad, writhing Poor Tom,· ' 
William Navin disp_layed a good deal of acting finesse in his first role with University Theatre as the earnest Kent, Keut, like Ed­gar, had to be portrayed as dis-­

. guised through half of the play, and Navin pulled this offwell with a nice change of accent, The role of the robust Edmund was a natural for Jolm Patrick· Hart, who has a vigorous and con­fident stage manner, On the ·other hand, the role of the Earl of Gloucester seemed to require mora dignity than Dave Garrick, somewhat of _a more natural comic, could· give it, He did handle the role with evident -skill, however. A · specially effective part was that of the fool, as portrayed by Terry Francke, who made him­self so pathetically lovable that Lear's line, "my poor fool is hanged" became one of the sad­dest of the play. Ukewise Kath­erine Lancelot· portrayed a sweet 
ANTHROPOLOGY 

_on Thanksgiving vacation 
ART BUSINESS ORAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION ENGINEERING 

II
ENGLISH GOVERNMENT HISTORY· LANGUAGES i
ij
l.lTERATURE 
i fl
MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY ~' 


(Get one free from your S.M.O.C.) 
PSYCHOLOGY ·SCIENCE 
r 

Richard McCarthy, 205 Walsh Hall Phone Ce. 4•6690 
SOCIOL.OGY 
I
SPEECH 

Your Sheraton Man on Campus has a free Sheraton Student ID
I
STUDY AIOS 

Card for you. (If you're· faculty, ask for a Faculty Guest Card.)
·1
On Display at !' 

With it you'll get discounts on room rates at Sheraton Hotels
r. 
~ 

.and Motor Inns all over the world. Even in single rooms. (WithJ 
. ·J 

two or three in a room, you save even more.) Good Deal.
The. N~tre Dome 
!1 

Get in touch with your S.M.O.C.: 
Bookshop 

. : f ~-95Sheraton Hotels& MotorInns 
~~«,W,-,',,:'~...;0~//M¢V".k',»-;c+w..e-')~:.;· 
but · strong Cordelia whose loss was a genuine tragedy, 

King Lear still plays at Wash­ington Hall this week Thursday through Saturday at 8:15 p.m. 
IIEY FELLOWS LOOK US OVER 

....... 
ARMY-NAVY 
Discount Center :{20 S. Michigan 
MEET 

Gus & Kent Largest Selection .. SURPLUS ITEMS .... 
CS%&%t%\,S%%%%%%%i Toques--• • • • • • $1.29 Watch Caps, Navy • $1.29 Novy Scarves,--• -S .99, Army Ponchos • --$2.99 Army Parkas • • -• $14.99 Navy Shoes -----$6.99 
Engineer Boots· · · $11.99 · Combat Boots ----$9.99 

I. 
Gloves, Shell, Liner-$3.99 

\-_.,. 
CHECK THIS FLEXIBLE LA Y·A-,VA Y 

;:,;:rs,sssiss,stssss B-9 Fleece Lined 40" Parka ---• • ---$22.99 Air. Force Flight Jackets ------------$15.99 Tanker Jackets ~ -$9.99 Rain Parkas¾ Light $4.99 Sweat Shirts ----$1.49 Sweat Pants• • • -~ $1.99 Winter Cops $1.99 & $3.99 Wellington Boots Unlined & Lined • $9.99 & $14.99 • Rubber Thermal Boots -------~ $4.99 $9.99 Leather Thermal Boots -. --. ---. -. -$14.99 Fleece Lined Boots $14.99 ' ?, 
·--·~-t.,· 
ARMY-NAVY 
Discount Center 320 S. Michigan So. Ilcnd, Ind. 232~8477 
"1001" UNUSUAL ITEMS. 


,, 
......-~.-·..1 
I . 
November 18 1 6 THE VOICE Notre Dame lndiana. Pa e-7 
MEET THE IRISH CAGERS 
by Mike Reed 
Pat Dudgeon 

Pat Dudgeon -No, 32, 6-2,170,Sr, 
Guard, •·.earnedhlsmonogram last season seeing action in 12 games•••best performance a­gainst University of Illinoiswhen he hit for 11 points • , , , one of the best shooters on the squad•• attended Good Shepherd High 1n 
:t Frankfort, Kentucky where he was county scoring champion for two years•••once hit 52 points in a high school game, • ,Econo­mics major in the College of ; Lrberal Arts. 


Larry Jesewitz 
Larry Jesewitz -No. 50, 6-8.220, 
Sr. Center•••saw action in 23 games last year and showed im­provement with each game, ,ave­raged 7.7 ppg. and 7.4 rebounds per game,, ,hadgoodpercentage from free throw line with 725%,, exceptionally strong and ls being counted on for his share of re­bounds this season. • ,prepped at Gage Park High in hisnative Chi­cago, • ,majoring in Electrical Engineering ~t Notre Dame. 
Ron Reed G FG FT 1962-63 16. 9'2 43 1963-64 18 154 52 

Larry Jesewitz 1962-63 18 · 45_ 18 108 6,0 120 6,6 1963-64 · 23 70 37 177 :;,7 167 7.4 
Pat Dudgeon 1%2-63 3 3 0 6 2.0 3 1.8 ·1963~4 12 11 2 24 2,0 14 . 1.22 
Bucky McGann 

1962-63 18 29 10 68 3,8 50 2,8 
:;.. 
Kevin O'Neill 

1%3-64 3 l 0 -2 . .7 3 1,0 
First The Midwest, -Then· The East -~ 
by Dan·Ferguson 
For all but the last 220 yards 
·Bill Clark and Bill Silveuberg of Kansas University were side by side. · Then Billy's closing kick put him 20 yards in front of Sil­veuberg as he grabbed the indivi­dual title inthe Central Collegiate 
-· Conference Meet, breaking the old record by 23 seconds. His time of 18:45 was almost a full minute better thari his race time as a sophmore in this meet when he placed fourth. The other chapters of Notre 
but -decided to run and gutted out the four mile ordeal, On the strength of his finish, the Irish 
barely edged out Western. Kan­sas, the defending champs were a very close third at 59 points, In the meet itself the competition. was remarkable, The first six -· men to finish recorded the six fastest times of the season, and all bettered the old meet record of 19:08, 
Ed Dean dropped nearly 41 sec­'onds from his 'performance at Indiana the week before. His ra­
-.Dame's 53-54 victory overWest-. pid improvement and the O'Verall ern Michigan are just as exciting. effort by the team gave themtheir Another marvelous Irish soph-first reward. They are now one more Bob Walsh was the second step closer to a NationalChamp­
man in, grabbing ninth place in ionship. 
19:14 for the four miles. Behind --·-·-------­him were MikeCoffeyat19:20and :_l PUBLIC CAF£TERIA I twelfth, and Ed Dean at'l9:22 and l Smith OininR llall I thirteenth. The last team man · Larry Dirnberger who finished t ·soOA FOUNTAIN t
..... 
~-twentyfourth _with an· excellent, ·I ·Mon. thru Fri.· · i 
~... 
. time of 19:40. I 7:30 A.M.-9:30.P.M. l Larry was sick before the race; ------~----­
,1' \ 

-r11eJf011sc of VisioJt 1•'· Craftsmtn 111 ·optics
... 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND ·CONTACT LENSES NOW .IN SOUTH .BEND fHE SHERLAND .BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral-2-1468 
; 
,,,... 
:,1ttJ/011sc-of-VisioJt-1',t. · 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.:--' Chicago 
Ron Reed -No, 44, 6-5, 205, Sr, 

Forward. •• Was the second highest scorer last year before academic problems caused loss of eligibility for the final six games • ·• ,hit for 360 pts. and a 20 ppg average. , • ranked in the top ten in the nation in rebounds with an average of 17.7 rer game made auspicious debut as a soph well from outside and has good moves to the basket•••hit for 45 points in intrasquad game last points in intrasquad game last Wednesday•• ·•• ,from Laporte, Indiana and Laporte High School. counted on by NCD baseball coach Jake Kline to work into the pitch­ing rotation ...enrolled in the col­lege of Business Administration lives in Badin Hall on the campus, 
. 
Kevin O'Neill 
Kevin O'Neill-No, 43. 6-2, 175, 

· junior guard•••one of the real' .pleasant surprlses thus far and ' should see quite a bit of action this ~ason, • ,saw action In only' three games last season. ••earn­ed a monogram on tlie mound · compiling a 3-1 record for Coach • Jake Kline's 'baseball team. , , , 1 hails from Albany, N.Y, where he attended ChristianBrothersAca­demy gaining all-city and state honors as a senior in basketball enrolled· in the College of Busi­ness Administration. • ,Rooms with Bucky McGamin WalshHall. 
James 11Bucky" MCanne -No, 33, 6-3, 190 Jr.·Guard -The top sec­
. ond year·man on the squad. , • moved into the starting lineup· moved it to the starting lineup · midway thru last season and did a fine job, ,sawactioninl8games last season averaging 3.8 ppg. , Captained his basketball squadat ­Cardinal Newman High iri West Palm· Beach, Florida during his junior and senior years, ... ,of Irish backgfound. , ,enrolled in the College ofBusinessAdminis­
tratio~ · · 
. 

John Huarte eludes· dive of Spartan St~ve Mellinger, as Irish tackle Jim Snowden moves in to help. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire) 
Don't.Miss Your. Last Chance To'.Honor The Team · VICTORY PARTY 
·FOR THE.YEARS LAST HOME GAME· 
3:00-11:00 Sat. Nov. 21 LaFo,rtun.e $1.50 Per Couple· 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame 1 Indiana
Page8 November 18, .1964 e 

IOWA,USC,NAT'L CHAMPS 
Trojan Finale 
"Southern California possess · the fastest backfield we'll face this year," said freshman foot­
.

ball coach George Sefcik. Sefcik 
who has scouted S~ C. did not be­lieve their line to be as quick as that. of tvUchigan State. Junior halfback iv!lke Garrett and flank­er Rod Sherman can run 9.7 hun­dreds. Slowpoke quarterback Craig Fertig and fullback Ron Heller break t.he tape at 1.0 flat. Even 6 ft. 2 in. 205 lb., Junlorend John Thomas can get under 10 seconds. Thomas is also an ex­cellent receiver and has ability on defense. 
The keys to the SouthernCal. of­fense are Fertig and Garrett. Coach Sefcik sees Fertig as one of the top passers the Irish will encounter. Despite his fleetness, Fertig most likely will throw from the pocket, His best re­ceivers are Rod Sherman and Dave Moton, Garrettisthework­horse of the team. He runs, re­ceives, blocks well, At Stanford, Garrett carried the ball 23 times for 98 yards. Guards Mac Byrd and Bill Fisk are outstanding linemen. 
Frosh Boast 
Team Speed 
Forty-seven players represent­ing eighteen states comprise the 1964 Freshman Football Squad. Included in the roster is Kevin Rassas, brother of varsity play­
er Nick. This year's selection of Frosh is Ara Parseghian's first hand-picked N.D. team. 
The main job of these recently graduated high school studentSis to adjust to the Notre Dame offense and defense. It is hoped that by teaching these youngsters certain fundamentalS, theY will have a basic background in °rder to -be prepared for the spring practice. 
1 

This year's team boasts excel­lent speed and possess a great deal of determination -partially because of theVarsity's success. But alumnus -CoachGeorge Se!­cik is quick to point out that. the team has average si:ze and does not compare to last years squad in this respect, Sefcikwasrefer­ing to the likes of Alan Page, Ke­
.vin Hardy, and Tom Regner. 
The fastest backfield men are quarterback· Tom Schoen and halfback Tom O'Leary. Both boys travel the 100 in 10,2 Ends Mike McGill of Hammond Ind,· and James Yacknow of Cleveland are 
the fastest at the{r respective position. while two South Bend ·boys, 1v1ike Kusmicz and Al Van­Huffel are the quickest interior lineman. 
Schoen. is one of four quarter­backs aspiring to replace Senior star, JohnHuarte. Theothersare 

. left-handed Dennis .Emanuel, from Iowa; Dan Koenings, from Wisconsin: and lastly Bill "Bus­ter"• O'Brien. O'Brien was . a .· passing sensasion at Princess 
· Anne Norfolk, Virginia. 
But, the transition from high school ball to college competition · is keen and more specali~d, thus it is more demanding. Although administration policies do not permit freshmen games, actual g~me situations would be a defi­
nite aid and advantage in the 
development of these players. 


Irish defense led by Captain Carroll halts Spartan fullback Cotton (#44). Irish left to right are Page, Carey, Carroll, Hardy, and Regner. (Voice Photo by Bill McGuire) 
Ara and Leahy Agree State Proved us Best 
The following is a report on the Q. What about Huarte's play, question-answer session in the Ara? Notre Dame locker room afterthe A. John had a great day, 1 don't ND-:tvllchigan State football game see how there can be any doubt last Saturday. The questionsare now, that he is a great quarter-being directed to Irishcoach Ara back. He has real quick hands Parseghian by press reporters. and ·feet, which are the two ne-
Q. Ara, the pre-game publicity cessities for good ball handling. billed this as the game of the year His TD run is a good example of for Notre Dame; now that you have this. In a fourth and two situation, beaten the Spartans byfour touch-he faked Farrellinto the line, then downs, do you feel that was your· bootlegged the ballaroundend. He big game? fooled just about everyone on the 
A. In view of the circumstances play. And how about that pass to surrounding the game, I would Sheridan off-balance. I've never have to sayitwas. One of the cir-had a quarterback who . could 
cumstances was the Pitt game. I throw off-balance like that. still maintain that the game did us Q. What about the running game? more good than harm. (Frank A. We had decided just before Leahy, former Irish coach who the game started that we would was also in the locker room, felt have to go without Wolski. We much the same, "Everyteam has counted on more running from at least one game duringthe sea-Eddy.and Farrell, and asyou saw son in which they are caughtflat. we got it, Merkle did a fine job If they can come out on top by blocking, too, As I said during playing hard, their confidence the week, wewantedabiggerback gets a_ big boost.") But despite in there who could block the big this plus factor, the Pittgame did· linemen better, Merkle did all leave a lot of the fellows on the we wanted him to, and then some. team with some doubts. Sure our Q. What was your game plan a­
.wins had been bigthis season, but gainst State? our schedule wasaloteasierthan · A. What we wanted to work on 
it had been in past years. The 
players were wondering just how 
good the team was. Well, the State 
game supplied them with the an­
swers, Then there was the Mich­
igan State jinx. Duffy had beaten 
us eight straighttimes.The press. 

claimed thattheir recentmomen­tum might carry them past us. ·The .MSU victory has resolvedall these, and showed the whole coun­· try what sort of team we had. 
Q. Was this yourbestgame this year? 
A. Yes. 

was their defensive. secondary.· They usually play a tight man to 
1st. Annual Student Football Banquet 
"An opportunity for_ tlze. students to honor their team" 

· Jim Carroll & Moose Krause-Moderators 
U.S.C. Game Film: Offensive Commentary Huarte, Snow, Farrell Defensive Commentary CarroH, Maglicic, Kostelnik 
..:. Awards: Presented by Faiher Tom Brenn.an · . , & Hughie Devore· Autographed Picture ofTeam ro All Attending. Dec. 2 7 P.M. 
7-9 Thurs. & Mon. 

Robert's Supper Club Limited number of Rathskellar · 
Donation $5.00 , Tickets left 
Coke Bar· 
Snook Next 
Stop Gary Snook and you stop Iowa. Just how good is the Iowa quarterback? Very good, accord­ting to assistant defensive line coach Joe Yonto. Snookcurrent­ly leads the Big Ten in passing, and is rivalingNotre Dame' sJohn Huarte for All-American honors in that position. ''Iowa is prim­arily a passing ball club", said Yonto, ''and Gary Snook will throw the ball an average of 40 times a game.". His 80 yards­

.plus passes make him a definite professional prospect. Against Minnesota, he triggered an 87 yard pass play, and compiled309 yards total passing offense. In a valiant effort at Ohio State, Snook marked off 221 yards in the air. Number one target isflankerback Karl Noonan. Noonan' s sixrecep­tions versus Michigan establish­ed a new Big Ten record of 40 re­ceptions in a season. Anothertar­get for Snook is Rich O'Hara, a split encl. Captain Tony Giaco­bazzi is a fine tight end. Report­edly weak with their running att­ack, Coach Yonto pointed outthat halfbacks Dalton· Kimbel and Craig Nourse have adequate speed. Irish fans will not see too much of them because the Hawk­eyes use the pass play two thirds of the time, The Iowa line istypi­cal of the rugged BigTen, weigh­ing over 230 pounds per man. In­terior linemen Bernard Budzik and John Niland, guards, andcen-· ter Dan Recker will give the Ir­ish more troubles than theirtack­les· or ends. 

Cy1·'s Barber Shop 
l\fiCHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 
100-102 South Main Stred Opposite Court House South Bend, Imliana 


'-' 
~ 
.: 
•f t 
J \ 
~ 
.._,~ 
l 
.. t 
~ .­
.( i
. 
:"-.i; 
. ' 

·¥.... 
~ ·.~( 
., :, 
·~ 
-v'---·; 
·~~ 
.,_,... 
is 
;. --~ 

Forn News Li tho -Ramarr ·Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 

