lawyer for the Project workers, 
. ., TBllfJE 
MISSISSIPPI something that is very rarely 
Eight Notre Dame students spent found in the South when the ques­the spring break wo.:"king on the tion of civil rights is inv0lv•.a:d Mississippi Spring Project in in a case. Meridian. Mississippi, They Through the work of this coun­wer:e accompained by Professor sel, the driv~r of the opposing Mcclatcher of the Russian de­car was forced to pleadnolocon­

fJJIF N@TBIE DAM/IE
'\ partment and his wife. The pur­tendarc, and the Project wo.C'kers 
Volume 3, Number 17 University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 7, 1965 
. R ...
ND H

.i · · ·. , o·nors ·_ -.. oss1n1 
With Laetare '·Medal 
Notre Dame has conferred itif° ·and previous winners include the 
highest honor, the Laetare Medal, 
on Dean Frederick D. Rossini of 
the University's College of Sci­
ence. He is only the second sci­
entist to receive the award in 
its 82-year history and the first 
person to be so honored while 
serving on the Notre Dame fac­
ulty. 

The University awards the Laetare Medal annually to an outstanding American Catholic .! layman. Poetess Phyllis McGin­ley received the award last year, 
i 

Dr. Frederick Rossini, Dean of the College of Science. · · 

late President John. F. Kennedy, Psychiatrist Francis J, Brace-land, and Admiral George W, Anderson. 
In naming Dr. Rossini ·as the 1%5 medalist, Father Theodore tvI. Hesburgh, C.S,C,, president of Notre Dame, praised his achievements as a scientist, ed­ucator, and administrator, 
"In Dean Rossini are combined the gifted mind of a scientist, the teacher's interest in young people, and the executive ability required tocoordinateeducation­al programs and research in science atacomplexuniversity." 
Father Hesburgh · continued, "Both his public and private life · exemplify the high professional competence and deep moral re­sponsibility essential for Catho-He _leadership in the American community. . 
"Notre Dame, as it celebrates during 1%5 the Centennial ofSci­ence on its campus, is particular­ly pleased and proud to honor Dean Rossini, whose nearlyforty · 
· years of dedicated serviceto sci­ence, higher education, and gov­ernrnent is in the finest tradition of the Laetare Medal," 
Dr. Rossini became head of Notre Dame's College of Science 
in 1%0 after earlierassociations 
with the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and the National Bu­
reau of Standards, 
A member of the pi,-estigious National Academy of Sciences, he recently completed a two-year term as president of Sigma Xi, the national professional society for the encouragement of sci­entific research. Currently he is president of the Aloortus Magnus Guild, a national organization of Catholic scientists, 
Dean Rossini also serves as­sociate dean of Notre Dame's Graduate School and chairman of the University Research Council. This year's Laetare winner has received honorary degrees from Carnegie Tech, Notre Dame, Du­quesne University, Loyola Uni­versity of Chicago, and Saint · Francis College, Loretto, Pa. 
He· °is author or co-author of eight books and more than two hundred scientific papers and • lectures regularly. 
The Laetare lvledal consists of a solid gold bar with the words, Truth is mighty and will pre­vail", inscribed around the disc, 
The. center design of the medal and the inscription on the reverse side are fashioned differently each year according to the pro­fession of the recipient, 
Theology Institute Proposed 
I 
·A new Institute for Higher Re­
ligious Study for Notre Dame 
with the most prominent-Cathe­
lie, Protestant, and Jewish 
theologians in the United States 
has been proposed in connection 
with the planned expansion of 
the Theology Department. 

. Father Albert Schlitzer, head ­. of the department, said that the posiums and seminars and might teach graduate courses in the expanded Theology Department, The Institute would also present a full program of lectures for the benefit of the rest of the uni­versity community and the gen­eral public, 
The Theology Department be-· gins its expansion next year, 
scholars would have the opportu-. when an undergraduate majorwill nity to do research on a wide be offered. Soon after that, Fa­range of topics crucialto modem •ther Schlitzer said, the depart­theological thought, They might ment will achieve full .status as_ contribute their work to sym-. a college and be able to offer a 
· . . . . . . -Ph, D, 
Collegiate Jaz~ Festival at Fieldhouse this W eel{end 
· The 1%5 Collegiate Jazz Fes·-judges will be Clark Terry, Na-. tival opens this Friday ~vening tional Broadcasting Company in the, Fieldhouse with 18 ·groups music staff of New York, Paul from a·cross the country com-Horn, NBC Hollywood music 'peting for top honors in the com;. staff: · and Arif Mardin, . avant bo, big band, and individual solo-··, garde composer"'.ananger-from 
ist competition. . ' ' 
There ·Will· be ten combo·en­trants and e·ight big band entrants competing in the Friday evening and Saturday afernoon and even­

ing sessions in the Fieldhouse. Prizes will include scholarships . to the Berkelee School of ·Music 
. in Boston, the National Stage Bands Camps, . and new instru­ments for the top instrumen­talists on each of eight instru-. ments. , Because of the p~ominence the Collegiate Jazz Festival enjoys 
·as the oldest and best· known of college festivals, the audience will include· talent scouts from the State Department and the N~­tional Student Association. Last year several groups from the festival toured the· Middle East, Africa, Asia, and Central and South America: 
There willbe :five judges. Guesi: · 
Father Schlitzer is making plans to build . a graduate staff and to strengthen and expand the undergraduate curriculum. By attacking the problem with this pincer movement Notre Dame will have a first-rate school. of theology as quickly and efficient­ly as possible, 
(cont'd on page 4) 

New York City, The permanent 
judges of the festival are Robert Businessi Manager Ken Socha. Share,· Administrator ·for the. (Voice Photo by Ted Stransky). Berkelee School of music of Bos­ton: and Charles Suber, President T70. s l ·t of National Education Services, ,, tCe e eC S Evanston, Illinois, and former . B1 · • · M 

Editor Bob ·Lumpkins. (Voice Photo by Ted Stransky). 
editor and publi'sher of ''Down-' . USl,lleSS . . . anage_.. T, 


beat" magazine. Notre Dame will be represent-.. Bob Lumpkins and Ken Socha 
. ed by the Lettermen and the Notre 
Dame Jazz Quartet. .. . 
Dan Ekkebus is the general 

chairman of the festival which 
is run under the auspices of Stu­· dent Government, 
The Friday night session will 
begin at 7:15, and tickets ($t25) 

will be available at the door. Sat-
urday's sessions begin at I and 
8 p.m.; tickets are $,75 for the 

afternoon and $1,50 for the even­
ing, Reserved seats are also-available forSaturdayevening. at $2,00 a ticket, · 
have been named Editor and Bus-. .iness Manager of the Voice, it 
was announced this weer.:-
Lumpkins, currently News Edi­
tor, is a junior mathematics 
major from Birmingham, Ala­
bama. He succeeds outgoingEdi­
tor Barry Johanson, Socha, soph­
omore AB · student ·from East 
Brunswick, N.J,, moves up from 
Advertising Manager to succeed· 
John O'Hiµilon. 
ln other staff changes, Lou 
Eartoshe.sky moves up from 
Sports Editor to Managing Edi-pose of· the Project was to aid the Comrn:.ttee For Concern in rebuilding thre,3 bombed Negro churches in Meddian. · The group left in two cars on Friday, April 19, and imm.:dl­ately upon their arrival in Meri­dian the next modng they met with trouble, 
A collision between a Volks­wagon loaned to the group for the trip by Professt>r Coslello of the English · department and a car passing illegally at an intersec­tion waa the first incident that indicated the town's attitude to­ward the project. 
Upon-discovering the purpose of our students'. visit to Meridian, the local authorities imm,?n1ately tried to railroad the case through court, 
Fortunately this incident stirred a few consciences in the eastern Mississippi town of ;50,000. Alo­cal judge provided a competent were free from the charges, al­though they were still made to pay a small fine for no apparent rea­son, 
The trip was also mar.red by veiled threats of hostility and economic reprisals d;rected against the worke.C's and those who helped them during their stay, The last night they were in Me::id1an the workers we.C'e forced to change their quaners for the evening when signs of un­usual activity were noticed out­side their lodgings in an aban­doned wing of an old hospital. No­thing came of this or any other incident during their stay. but the tension was always there. 
The nuns who had giV•£!n the workers the use of the old hosp!­
. tal as their headquarters were constantly receiving threatening phone ·calls, · · 
Outside. of these few incidents (cont.1d on p, 4) 

.Minch Lewis ·Begins Three New Programs Immediately 
Notre Dame's four new student' 
government officers will take 
office on May 1, Cabinet mem­
bers and commissioners, to be 
appointed .during the next two 
weeks, will also begin work at 
the same time, 
Minch Lewis, student body pre­

sident-elect, has announced that he will initiate three programs immediately after taking office, .The first is an evaluation com­mittee on student government, It will include students not di­directly connected with student government, to study and report on its operations. Their report and recommendations will be 
completed before June. 
The other projects are institu­
tion of a Hall Improvement Co­
operative under the direction of 
the Hall Presidents' Council, and 
a jointNotreDame--Saint Mary's 
Social Committee, The Hall Im­
provement Cooi:erative will study 
the feasibility of such services 
as hall water coolers, a student 
drapery service, and purchasing 
of new furniture for recreation 
rooms by the hall councils. 
Structural changes in student 
N Ed·t 
. ew . l, OT'
·. 
~ 

tor, with Bob Campbell taking. over the sports page, Dan Mur­ray is the new News Editor, moving up from Assistant News. Editor, Bob Mundhenk has been appointed Copy Editor, and John Sibley as Headline Editor, 
Layout Editor Dennis Kern and assistant Steve Vogel remain on, as do Circulation Manager Jim Finch, and · Proofreader, Jim_ Mede!rds. · government for next year are currently being formulated and will be submitted to the Constitu­tional Revision Committee of the Senate for approval. The pro­posed changes are intended to strengthen the Cabinet and clarify · 
. the function of the Senate, The operation of the various com­missions will be placed under the Cabinet's direction. 
The new administration will re­ceive applications for the a~ pointive pos1tions in student gov­ernment. through out the re­mainder of this week. An invi­
. tation to apply was published earlier, ·. stating the·· positions available and the general re­quirements .for application, All applicants, upon submitting letter, will be notified of the time and place of interviews. An­nouncement of all· appointments will be ·made oofore the Easte~ break. 
Students Travel· 
to New York for Army_Ganie · 

The renewal of the mostfamous and bitter of all football rival­ries will highlight the 1%5 Notre. Dame Student Trip, For the first time in 18 years the Irish will meet Army in New York City's Shea Stadium on Saturday, Octo-. ber 9, 
Jack O'Connell, chairman of the Student Trip Committee, se­lected New York over Miami as the site because the minimum cost of the l'vliami trip would be $120,. "far beyond the reach of 
.most students.'' 0 1Connell be­lieves an unofficial trip to Miami. will be organized next fall for students wanting to go to the Thanksgiving holiday game~ 
The main issue at present is whether the trip will go to New Yorkby plane or train. The price by train would be approximately $50, Flying to the city would cost $20 more but would allow · students to si:end Friday night in 
· 

New York. The train would not arrive until earlySaturday morn­ing. In either case the trip would leave Sunday. · , The student trip committee is circulating a questionnaire in. the dining halls tomorrow night to. detennine students'. ,pre­~erence on the method of travel. fhe comrilittee asks that seniors 
The rece_nt recrniting drive has. not fill out the questionnaire, more than doubled the size 0f the The committee will collect a . news and sports sfaffs, and the preliminary $10 deposit in May new editors are looking forward and is expecting over a 1000 stu­. to · better and more complete dent to attend the game.· 
coverage, 




Page 2 . . . . » Wednesday, April 7, 1965

ttSmut on Our Lady's Face 
The motion picture industry has hit an all with rich and exotic fooc.s. in a gluttonous WE SHALL ·N<JT time low with the most insidious film that manner, and finally engaging with harem girls 
.8£ cf(UC/F/Ef)

has come to South Bend, or anywhere for that in an immoral dance on the order of the mo­matter, in years. The movie is. "John Gold-· dern. dances popular with some of our more OPCuY rllEC,WS.ffarb, Please Come Home." This _.movie ·con­immature adolescents. tain_s so .many scenes of lc~d p<;>sturing and This malign of the Notre Dame student, the ·Or bOI..JF/IRB.1 dancing that the only word to describe it is future Catholic leaders of America, leaves 
sn,PeN{'PJ'AtJJff :£'
disgusting. Its cdmes against the virtue ·of one with a feeling of ~xtreme nausea. It is re• purity and mockery of the virtue of chastity · volting to think of the damage that can be can only be the creation of a warped and de­done to the Sons of Our Lady and her Uni-generate mind. versity by . this one tasteless blue movie. .....-~ 0 ---· 
But these considerations are not the most judging from the crowds at the State Thea-' · 7µ; ~---~E~___,,~,/ serious threat posed by these revolting reels_ trc, thedlaw suitdwas nhot edri~ug~ tohprothcct~ ~~ J ~.l"fvl-=-A6 C-t9:f
1

of Celuloid. This Hollywood horror has our goo name _an w~ s ou. 11is1s_t t a: c e :::::-. --_ .. =--;;;_~~I __ ~!' dragged the name of the University of Notre pro~ucers of this movie prefix the film w~th a ~f£]!kd::::. ,..' . ~--,:; Dame through its smutty scenes; thereby in­statement to the effect that the real Untver-~,. '., ; , · . ~ J 
,,, \ \ I, I , , 11,1 . -~ 
1

juring the image of our great university. It is. siry of Notre Dame is a community of Christ· \~\~ \ 'j :1 /' . £;,.-.· 
implicit -in this film that the university could ian gentlemen, and that the University itself -=--,.· ! i...4!f£: -~ be dissuaded from its long-standing policy of is a place of academic excellence founded ,. \ . ~-"':.:-' not playing exhibitional football games for on Christian principles that bears no ~ctual x·,' ,~~. n1 / ,.­money; but this is of minor importance when resemblance to the school represented tn the ~1· ,.•_· i \..•~~=·-..; 1 /;tc'•~·-_<t-__/_#..,,,,_,...':----­
set against· the way it depicts the Notre moV1e.. · " 1 -,,.,r= Dame football team thus libeling the Notre Even in the event that the_producers o.f the~-;;.:>­Dame students in general, . movie do comply with this demand, some in­
!n one of the concluding scenes of the film fluencial student ,group; like the Blue Circle the football team is shown at an orgy, the should ·send a letter to alf parish churches nighL before the game and well past 11:30, urging pastors to condemn the movie from ogling harem women who are doing a rather­their pulpits as an obscene slander on the suggestive and vulgar dance commonly known blue and gold robes of Our Lady and her Uni~ as the . hoochi-coochi, gorging themselves versity. Would Harvard demand less? 

Hunchback Dies 
by.BJ.rry Johanson VOICE EDITOR 

Notre Dame Evens Score with Goldfarb Ruling 
·Sports Editors:•• ·•••.• , ••Lou Bartoshesky, and Bob Campbell 
Those swinging sticks in Notre Dame's current attack on humor can now claim a batting average of .500•. The first . pitch, ,.John Goldfarb, Please Come Home", curved by for a called strike, but the second, a slow-ball humor mag­azine named "The Hunchback"• was swatted into oblivion. "The-Hunchback" was to be a campus magazine organized and financed by Bob Farmer, anAB sophomore.Attheend of a four. month series of what were-sometimes bitter e;,<changesbe­tween Farmer and Rev~-Charles· Mc­Carragher, V.P. of Student Affairs, the magazine was squelched, and Farmer was left with a $500. debt. .The odginal story of "TheHunchback of Notre Dame" is a classic. But the issues of its plotline are perhaps no more striking than the issues involved  Fr. McCarragher admits thathispri­mary concern insuchcensorproblems, "comes in the areas of sex and inde­cency." When Farmerreturnedthat day to hear the verdict Fr. O'Neil pointed out ex­. amples of material he considered in poor taste. -"Fr. McCarragher naturally acted in accord with O'Neil's word on this," says Farmer, However, the meeting ended with Fr, lvfcCarragher agreeing that he would have Jim Berberet, Editor of the Dorne, read all the copy when it was finished and make a recommendation as to its Farmer was in favor of such a· student viewpoint, · a viewpoint given in the con­text ofthe whole magazine," With this the Hunchback was left to  Fr. Hesburgh agrees that he isessen­tially pessimistic as to the possibility of a good humor magazine developing, although he added that,· "this doesn't mean I make a decisive pre-judgement .on all attempts."/ . . "I like humor," he adds, "but seeUt­tle that's good, and wouldn't get on my knees and plead for more magazines to develop on campus." As to the Hunchback he says that "I remarked to Fr. McCarragher .that, due to a concern for the student involved we might riot n~ed another humor mag..: azine." Then, however, Farme~ says that he was allowed to continue if he wanted to, but that the magazine couldn't be sold on campus. "This hurt us a great deal," says Far­mer,·who seems well aware of the mo-­ points. Fr. McCarragher says that "There is no purpose in having such a · ,magazine at all. No more such maga­zines Will be associated With the cam­'pus/' .. He.also says that Farmer's parents were not willing to accept the financial responsibiHty for the magazine, and they wanted Farm~r out of the-mag­azine. Farmer, however, feels that he could easily be financially stable and that, "It'_s alright with my parents if it'sal­right with the administration." "I didn't like the copy either," says Fr. McCarragher;, "It was in poortaste and withom point. Berberetwas opposed to it, definitely." Farmer claims.that Fr.McCarragher could not have seen more than one-half the copy when Fr. O'Neil had it, but at  
with this new Hunchback. The other was from ·fiction. This is from the reality that's Notre Dame, and  trudge its harried wayover toBerberet, · who promised a careful and thorough reading of the material planned for the  ney-rnaking possibilities such a maga­zine had. · The staff then announced that they  · that time he told Farmer that he didn't have a chance to see it. Speaking of_ a real concern over the  
·, the problems of censorship, adminis­ coming Christmas issue.  would present their magazine after the  problem of a student selling a product  
trative method and clericalattitude !hat  "On the .whole the magazine wasn't  semester break.  on  campus, Fr. McCarragher is also  
it contains make it a tale worth telling.  bad at all," says berberet.  And with this, as in the attacks on the  "worried  over Farmer's status as a  
According to Farmer, who is regarded by many as one of the most talented car­ "Don't ·misunderstand me, I don't mean that I enjoyed it all. I usually  fictional Quasimodo, the government crashed down the remnants of the de­ student, and whether he would be able t~ hold his current National Merit  
toonists  on  campus,  the  idea  for  don't like  the  "Mad Magazine" type  fenses and the Hunchback was doomed.  scholarship with the extra work load."  
the . magazine grew out of his dissatis­ of humor anyway. However, except for  "I told Farmer that he couldn't dis­ As it reads now though, the Hunchback  
. faction with ''The Leprechaun". an in­ the  few  things -I  marked,  and I  was  tribute on campus, couldn't solicit or  is dead. Farmer, is holding a  bill for  
.dependently published humor magazine.  looking for them, I thought that I was  advenise in anyway whatsoever," says  $500. and is forbidden to publish at all.  
Bitter at the censorshipthat regulated  certainly. within  the  bounds  of good  ·  Fr. McCarragher.  "If he did we'd have an issue.'' con­ 
. the Leprechaun, .Farmerdecidedthat, '.'the only possibility to get something  taste." He recommended  censoring  three  "That means no posters, no buttons, no advertisingincampus publications,"  cludes Fr. McCarragher• It is. obvious that this is not intended  
·better was to work on a magazine com­ lines in  a. story,  one cartoon and one  ·· he added.  as a pun howe:ver, and that there islit­ 
. pletely•divorced from it".  joke out of the total, according to Far:.·  This  reaction  is based  on  several  tle chancethat it means that Hunchbacks  
At thispoint he sounded out the interest  mer. The original two cartoonsthat had  would be hitting the newsstand.  
for this idea, met with a response he  been objected towere not included in t·he '  
considered favorable and in early No­ material seen by Berberet,  
vember began  to assemble material~  By this tim.e it was thefirst week of  .  
Steve Heagan, Ken Socha, Chuck Wor­ December,  and  all ai::rangements for  
dell and Kent Durs.o formed the core of  printing were set with Ramarr Publish­ 
-his staff.  ing, Inc. in Elkhart, the sameplantthat  
First contact with Fr. McCarragher  prints "The Voice.'' The initial bills·  
came at once when Farmer asked for  for typesetting and supplies were start­ . Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni­ 
. permission to sell the magazine on the  ing to mount.  versity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, La.Fortune Student Center:  
campus when it was·printed.Nomater;..  But the speed withwhichblllsmounted  Post Office Box II.  
ial was ready at this time.  was matched by the speed of objections  Board of Review•••••••Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearsen  
.  According to Farmer, Fr. McCarra­ being  voiced  by .Fr.  McCarragher.  EDITOR. •  .  • .  ••••••••••• , .••••. , . ,BARRY JOHANSON  
. gher told him that he didn't want to see  Fr.·· McCarragher,  says  Farmer,  Assc. Editor:  •••••• ~-•••-.......-•••••· • ~·  ••• ~,.  ~· •.• Jed Kee  
. any more such magazines. However, he let Farmer continue, withtheprovision that Rev. Daniel O'Neil, Ass't V.~. of · Student Affairs was to read every word.  named two major stumblingblocks, one the financial angle, the other that Far­mer's parents were opposedto the pro­ject. "I· asked him if when these were  News Editor:.· •.•••••••••.••••••.•.•••• ~ .Bob Lumpkins News Staff:•••••••••••Earl Guenin, Ken Krivickas, Dan Murray, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, John Sibley, Dick Veit, Steve Feldhaus, Ray Foery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schleef, Bill Siska, Pat Strickler, J~Eli~ .  
From· here on the fate of the Hunchback  cleared it wouldbealrfghttogoahead.''  

/was determined by .cir.cumstances. says Farmer. Sports Staff:. ; •••••••••Mike Read, Dan Ferguson, Mike Granger,marked by contradictions, and parts of "He told me yes." . . Bill Brown, Jere Locke, Frank Morasco; Quentin MacManus, Tomits history seems to be recordedin two "Then a couple of days later he. told Sullivan, Bill Dwyre . . different chronicles, that of Farmerarid me that he'd lunched with Fr.Hesburgh, .Business Manager:, ·: •••••••• ( ••• ; •••••• ·.John O'Harilon 
that of Fr>McCarragher.' . and that Fr. Hesburgh had said that no 
··Advertising,Manager:. , ••••••••• ~ •• ·•••••••.•· .Ken Socha "W~ took nearly haif of ~Ur material more humor magazines were tobe con-· Advertising Salesmen:••• , •••• , • , •• ; ; •• , , • ,John Guzauskas · over for ··review by Fr. O'Neil. l knew . nected with the campus. Layout Editor:.••••• ; ••••.•••••••• ;' ~ •••• ·.Dennis Kern· 
that parts would be censored.Afterall, Fr, McCarragher said we . could­
J\ssistan! Layout.Editor:•••·• ~ ·•• •• •••••• , ••• , , • ,Steve Vogel I needed to test' the limits that were in-n't publish. We lost all our Christm·as Layout Staff:. . ~ ••.•• , •••••• , •. , •• , ,. Edd Baker. Dave Griffin
volved." " · · '· ·· material," 
'Proofreader!. ~--• / ..•-•.• ~ -. : ••·. ·..•·-. .•.•.•• . Jim Medeiros 
. l, 


r 
• 
I 
-J.i 
-3 
j. 






Wednesday, April 7, 1965 


Perspective 
by: 
Summer projects of tutoring and social work in major cities in the United States is becoming more available to students. More organiz.ations are springing up and more students are asking to take part in them, Under the suggestion of Dr, Edward Goer-_ ner of the political science de­partment, and with the organi­zation of Nick Vitalich of the Council for the International Lay Apostolate, student government will try _to offer more opportu­nities for these summer pro­jects to Notre Dame students through the geographical clubs. The model will be the work of the Chicago Cltib last summer with_the Chicago Area Lay Move­rnent, What is involved is simply that the club needs to know the name of the -organization and whlt kind of ~rvices it super­

vises. Then, at a general meet­ing at the end of the year, the club simply asks for volunteers frorn · among its members, sub­mits the information to the or­ganization in its city, and then lets the organization do the rest-contacting the volunteers, offer­ing them the closest places to work, putting them into program, and providing facilities and ad­vice, By now, most of the major cities of the country have these ­organizations, and they are small and young, but effective, · 
The main advantage of this stu­dent government project will be to the individual Notre Dame 

,f 


Band Plaque for JFK Center 
A plaque honoring the Notre . Dame Band will be hung in the John Philip Sousa Memorial 
. band shell in Washington, D, C, The bandshell is a part of the new 
... 
John F, Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Mr. George Murray, head ofthe 

• 
Band Alumni Organization, said 

. 
! 
.. 
John Gcaren 
Student Body President 
student; many of those who have 
been engaged in this kind of work 
say that tutoring educates the 
tutoi: even more than the pupil. 
But there are also other ad­
vanra~es, Most of the programs 
offer ~a :. choice of work nights 
and require only one hour per 
week, so that even a student with 
a difficult work schedule can 
generally find a good time, Inad­
dition, this will be a worthwhile 
and perhaps unifying project for 
the geographical clubs, some of 
which have been previously 
limited to providing transporta­
tion and social events, And yet, 
no sophisticated organization is 
demanded of the club -only pub­
licizing the opportunities and 
collecting names -so that.even . a small club can participate well if only the organization in its_ home city is good. 
The student government meet­

ing to organize this will be call­
ed byStudentOrganizationsCom­
missioner Mike Theisen for to­
day, Wednesday, over lunch in the trustees' room; after that, we should be under way. If you are an officer of a geographical club, please consider strongly the advantages of the program to your members. If you are a member, please consider what you have to gain, encourage your club officers to take part, and be watching for the general meet­_ing at which volunteers will.be 
taken. 
that the alumni groupdonated$100 to the bandshell fund. Ths dona-­tion made the plaque possible • The Notre Dame is the : _only American -Catholic -university · band to be so honored, according to official records of the band­
shell foundation. 
University of Notre Dame Page 3 
Nominations_ Open For Student Gopt~ 
As of Sunday, April 4, names were· in nomination for upper­class officers and college sena­tors. Since nominations are open until this Friday (blanks may be obtained at and returned to the Blue Circle office between 6:30 and 7:30 today, tomorrow, and Friday), there should be more nominees. 
At preserit there are two candi­dates for SeniorClass President, John Buck and Peter Budetti, Gregory Rust is as of now un­opposed for Vice-President, with three candidates, Richard An­gelotti, Harry McConagh, and Geary Ellet, goingforTreasurer. The Junior Class has the most 
BACK TO Prepo. red for every CLASSES ••• 
course with •.• 
· famoua educational p:1perb11cks perfect for learning and reviewing. Over 100 titles on the following subjecu: 
BARN~S & NOBLE ­College ·outline Series 
' . 
KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS , ON DISPLAY AT 
-NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE 


nominees, eight: Ray McDonald, James Fish, and Tom Madden for President; Pat Nash, Harold Gleason, and William Staszak for Vice-President; PatrickShaw for Secretary; and Bob Hodgson for Treasurer, 
In the Sophomore Class nomi­nations, Louis Pignatelli andJohn Darrouzet are nmning for Pre­sident, Brian McMahon andSteve Kurowski for Vice -President, Thomas Chema for Secretary, and Roger Guerin forTreasurer, The Senatorial races are the most sparse, with two colleges having unopposed candidates and the Science College with none. Malachi Kenney is in nomination 
for AB Senator, Mark Meiering for Business Senator, and Ed Kashuba and JB King for Engi­neering Senator. 
VOTE PAT SHAW FORJU1VIOR CLASS SECRETARY 

ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS 
DRAMA 

ECONOMICS 
EDUCATION ENGINEERING ENGLISH 
GOVERNMENT 
HISTORY 
\ 
LANGUAGES LITERATURE MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY PSYCHOLOGY 
SCIENCE 
SOCIOLOGY 
SPEECH 
STUDY AIDS 

j 
_1 

University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 7, 1965
Page 4 






Latin Anie:d.can Problems 
The existing social, economic, the needs of the majority of its According to Senor Tomic, the and political institutions of Latin JX'!Ople. only solution to these problems America are ••a failure.'' This Latin America has a population is industrialization. But such a was the conclusion of SenorRod­of 200 million,, one half of which change cannot take place without omirq Tomic, newly-appointed are under twenty years of age. close cooperation between the Chilean Ambassador to the United Two thirds of this 200millionis nations of Latin America; He said States and Co-founder of .the undernourished; one half iswith­that the ••crying need of out time 
Christian Democratic Party in out housing; one third cannot read is Latin American integration." Jo 
Chile, or write; the median level of edu­Senor Tomic warned. that the 
Senor Tomic was the keynote cation is the second grade; yet conditions are ripe for-revolu­
speaker at the 1965 Annual In­the birth rate increases by 3?c a . ation and may contain the seed of ternational Forum of the Univer­year. •another Castro. He enthusias­.. sity of Notre Dame. Senor Tomic stressed the tically expressed his hope that 
He described Latin America as grossly unequal distribution of changes can be made within the 
"the richest and emptiest conti­wealth, Chile has eight univer­framework of democracy and nent in the world." Despite its sities, but only two per cent of, ended with a plea for United States great natural resources, its in­the students come from the work­help and cooperation, !. stitutions have failed to serve ing classes. 
Heshurgh Gets Ho11orary Doctorate 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh was of the University of California state of the University. Kerr, who among the recipients of the hon-in 1868 when Governor. Henry received a honorary Doctor of
Mr. Roderiro Tomic addresses the Latin American• in the Library 
.orary Doctor of Laws degree at Haight signed legislation to char­Laws degree from Notre Dame at, 
Audiwrium. Seated behfrid bim on .lbe sla[;e are Rev, Edmund P. 
Joyce, ·executive vice-president of the University, and Hemrzn the_ annual Charter Day cere-ter· the institution. The cere­the Memorial Library dedication 
P11enfes, (V.oice Photo f,y ,\like Ford). monies of the University of Cali-mony took place in the big out­ceremonies last year, also in­fomia at Los Angeles Friday, door Art Parterre which seats troduced Vice President Hubert April 2nd. 17,000. Humphrey, the principal SfX'!aker
Welensky to Talli on Afri~a 
Fr. Hesburgh left South Bend Chancellor Franklin D. Murphy at the exercises. on Tuesday for St. Paul where he of U,C.L.A., who made the an­Following the ceremony, Hum­Sir' Roy Welensky, former Sir Roy Welensky' stalkisbeing attended the · consecration of· nouncement of the award to Fr. phrey and the honorary degree Prime l\linister of the Federation co-sponsored by . the College of Bishop Shannon. He then flew to Hesburgh on Wednesday, March recipients were honored· at. aof Rhodesia and Nyasnland, will Arts and Letters and the Civil Los Angeles for the commenora-29th., presided at the convoca­luncheon sponsored by thespeak here Wednesday, April 14, Rights Commission of Notre tion exercises which marked the tion andPresidentClarkKerrde-U.C.L.A. Alumni Association 

on "Political and Economic Pro­Dame, 
blems of Africa." The lecture  
will be in \Va shington Hall at 8:00  
I:'M.  
Sir Welensky was elected to the  
Northern. Rhodesia Legislative  
Council in 1938 and continued to  
·hold his seatunopposed untill953,  
when he. was elected the first  
_Federal Assembly. He .was ap­ 
pointed Minister ofTransport and  
Communications· in . January,  
.1954, and l\1inister of Posts in  
February of that same year, He  
.,  became Prime Minister i!} Nov­ 
I  ember, 1956, andremainedinthat  
1 l i  position uritil the dissolution. of the Federal·Government on Dec­ember 31, 1963, ..  
i  
I  
Mississippi  
(cont'd from page I) ' ·..  
the project went exactlyas plan.,._  
ned and was highly siic:cessfut,:  
The students returned :enthused  
·ove'i-their. accomp~.ishri1iints and';·.,: · at the same time realiii'ncr that-'•, . , . . _·. ' . . . -~. . .._,;, ·. ~ .. , : .; ' ·. much more ·needs to ·be· 'done, ·• ..,~  
': Fifte~n other Notre· .Dame stil­ 
; dents spent the break working in .  
. the Chicago slums. Project Chi­ 
. 'cago, an organization·foundlid on  
campus by Wally Davis and Bob  
Brugger. and moderated by Fa­ 
.ther Burrell, had as its purpose  
social work in the Chicago slums. · ·  
· The participants, including  
freshman through grad students,  
· worked on conjunction . with the  
Chicago Catholic Interracial  
:Council, and through their con­ 
' tacts, . the students_ were able to  
see first hand the problems of  
slum life.  
This was a pilotprojectforlater  
work in Chicago, and as a result  
of this trip plans are beingform­·  
· ed to organize a group of students  
to spend a few weeks working in  
the slums this summer,  


.. 
(cont~ from page l)

·v-,··· > 
,· ·,,.'Any schofar would stay at the · ·:/,Institute for two semesters at 
;

··, ;· the·•most so that this frequent 
. '·C. ttirnover, coupled with its close 
. __ connection to the graduate school 
. . ··of 'theology, would give the In­
:,. t ·stitute: a ,unique combination of 
• '., ,freshness and stability.. . • · 
97th Anniversary of the founding livered his annual report on the 
A message of importance to sophomore men 
Ifyo.u"'ve got1Nhat itta~es ito be:an·.Arn1y Officer: you nmay qualify for this ne'tN 
. . ' . . 
.•:on-ca,npus,.~.ra.in~ng, program 
. . . . . ­
A new Ariny ROTC program starts this . coming Summer for sophomore men who apply ·prior to May 1-only 3,000 applicants to be accepted 
. . 
If you're a sophomore now attending one of the 247 colleges and universities that offer.Army Officer training-::-or §ou plan to transfer to one ofthese schools .next •· -Fall...:.you may qualify for the new two-year Army ROTC program, -. . . . 
This new pro~am.-:designed especially for colle~e Jrien .who ha~e not 'taken .• Army ROTC during their.first two·years-will commence with six weeks·oc 
· field training this coming Summer, beginning June 14. Then you'lLhave . · · .. on-campus training during your junior year .•. six additional weeks at cam·p . · during the following Summer ••. and more on-campus traini~g during yoi.Ir . senior year. Even flight training is offered at some schools. · · · 
RO':fC training is really a pr~cess of learning to organizeand direct others-to be a leader. Consider how important this ability can be to you throughout life; yet, to acquire it you will spend re1atively little time in the ROTC classroom. You'll obtain valuable junior management experience •.• a fuller and richer campus life·.•• extra spending money ($40 per month during your junior and senior school years, and even more during Summer training)·•.•·and, when you graduate, an Army Officer's commission as Second Lieutenant. Then you'll normally spend· two·interesting years on active duty, often · abroad with opportunities for travel. · · 
Talkto the Prof~ssor of Mili~ry Science on your campus about this opportu~ity. ~~ him to .describethis new 'short p~ogram in detail. 
Or send'·in the coupon below for domplete information. :There's no obligation involved, and you'll not be subjected to any "hard sell" recruiting effort. The kind of men the Army wants can decide for themselves if this new opportunity is right for them. · 
If you're good ·enough to be an Army Officer, . do,n't"settle for less. Sign up now 1or Army ROTC~ 
·~------:----,--"."-~-~-----:-~-~-.---.;;,~---~-------'---·;.__~----------:.~---.:.-------------..~~------------------~---------~. 

f Send in /his coupon for more Information on this new two-year on-campus Army Officer training program, · · · • ; U.S. Army ROTC, Post Office Box 1040, ~estbury; New York 11591 '· .: 
1. Please send me complete information on the new two-year Army ROTC program. I understand there '. ;,-/• :.·...,
l:,:,•bllg,Uooimol,e,, . com,~Addrn.,,_______ ARMY'>fit 
I 

.& 
.. 
(' 

. . . : . F,ai:her. Schlitz.er • said that the 
· · : , Institute would use' the facilities 
J.·~::;o::r University . •. . Clty,_,;,._;_.__.;...Smt:, ' ROTC !
of.the. Kellogg.Continuing Edu­. cation·, ee·ntei:/ now ''under con.:. 
I _. I expect to ,complete my sophomore year o,,__________195__._ · · · ·· · · · · .. : .. structlo1V1;Plaris· for·, working I ·: . . :·. . . . . . , . . . . I . ..'1Uart{!rs for the members of the ·.• L'While tam.no! now attending a school that offers Ar!!'>' ROTC training, I am plannino to attend the following · • : 
·I ··· .. ,• ··· ·•, . ' . : . ..'>.• ';: , . •. · ·:.· • .'a . . . I 
·.. Institute are sp:culative at this Ls~hocil th~t.dcies nextFall: College or University: -· · · · · ·;' · -;,·,:,.: >•,' . . • c :365 . . f 
. , :,•:·time;-no'plans have ·been made · ..for any construction. ' · · · · 
.:1~-~':'..:~----------:--·-~---~-------~----~-------:""-~-....~-~~------~-~-~---------~----~-------~----~---~--;.~--~----~-------·~.1
• I 


Wednesday, April 7, 1965 University of Notre Dame 
Page 5

.. 




The Hope The Conditions The Apathy 
M@&iJ&dP!!,WI

Christian Commitment Finally 
•·.._ By Steve Feldhaus 
For the first time initshistory, Notre Dame men also worked in 
the Notre Dame student body has • the Chicago slums. 
become involved in ·the Civil Perhaps the effect of these two 
Rights question-actively. projects can best be described 
Under a committee organiz.ed by considering a few comments 
by Joe Ahearn and directed by of those who were effected by 
Dr. Costello· of the English de-them. · 
partment, Notre Dame sent eight "You don't know how much good 
students to Mississippi over the you've done." The man who said 
Spring break to help rebuild this is a white liberal who makes 
bombed Negro churches, his living in Meridian, Mississip-
In a similar project headed by pi, and who cannot afford to of­



WP.::::~:;:~~=~~1:=,~ 
ALWAYS FIRST QUAUTY~ !~<' i,j 

1. .. ::___
:_;_:'_._::_!_i,,.:·'··
,;t ;·
I ­


Therefore he has kept his liberal. ginning stages is the training of 
views to himself. During talks with the N.D. project workers he became aware that the-re were many otherswhothoughtthe same as he did. For the first time, he found a group with whom he could raise his voice and not fear re­prisal, and in this free atmos­phere the problem of civil rights took a much needed airing. He and others talked' about the rights of the Negro where before they had been afraid even to think them. 
"If you only ·knew hO\v much your coming has meant to me." This -came from. a Negro co­·worke'r who{:hangedhisplansand spent his.vacation working atoµe o(the· churches after he had seen the N.D•. contingent arrive ready and eager to wor~ In an,area 
students to work in Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama over the summer in voter registration drives. Similar ambitious pro­jects are being planned for next year. 
Those in charge of Project Chi­cago also plan to return. Plans are being drawn now for a sum­mer project in Chicago, with the possibility -of some sort of per­manent arrangement being made in the furture. 
In every case those involved in these projects benefitted from them. The people in Chicago and Mississippi were given a ray of hope, a ray that_ only scratched the surlace of their needs, true, but it was all aweek'sworkcould produce. The real benefactors of the experience,were-the partici-: 
where hope has•iong been'stifled · pants themselves and the school 
'and is. particularlidifficult to they represented. , . -­maintain, this arrival of the first Those who made the trips have college group. to come to Meri-seen some of the problems of dian -signified to. the . .local -Ne-human existence from the inside, groes that someone is interested and the insight they gained more in their plight, and that there is than regarded.them for their ef­
.still reason to hope~ . fort. They have returned with an 
•"The only word that describes understanding of the people with the,-experience· is satisfying." -whom they worked. Forthem, the· This wasCarlosGorricho'scom-,experience was invaluable. 
·mem after spending a week work--For Notre Dame,·these projects 
ing with the gangs in the Chicago 
slums, ·carlos: ·found-~ that ·• the 
teeriagers·· he worked ·with knew 
_little or nothing of life_ beyond 
the . slums.· Many had not even 
ventured into downtown Chicago. 
Carlos' solution to the problem 
was talking with them and tell­
ing them what life can be like. 
But he wanted to do more than 
just talk, so he invited fifteen of 
them down to.Notre Dame:forthe · Old Timer's Game. · 
"We all returned wanting to do · something more,'' Thus Joe Ahearn expressed· the feeling of · his group upori returning from Mississippi. Already in the be-
CILA. Members Solicit:Funds 
CILA members will canvass the 

· campus next week to ask stu­dents for support for their sum­mer projects inbothLatinAmer-. ica and the United States, Last year they collected about $100 a hall; hopes and quotas are higher 
this year.  ,  
CILA _  has  already  made  ar­ 
rangements  for  this  summer:  

fifteen members will go to the Peruvian Altiplano ·to ' aid in health, education, and.other pro­jects: nine to Tacambaro, Mexi­' co, to build.houses and do hospi-· tal work; twelve to help the mi­grant workers in Texas; four to 
·· _1ct as camp counselors in·Colo­rado. ­In order to work ori" one ofthese 
represent two significant ac-· 
· complishments. For the first time, the most pressing national problem; civil rights, -is being introduced on campus and a solu­tion · is· being offered. No one claims any originality in the so­lution -the fact is that it is be­ing offered by the Notre Dame student body. · The Chicago slum work repre­sents .an important improvement 
ONE WAY 
TRAILERS BERTZ UHAUL 
·-232-1444 
Please Call Early for·. Information and Reserva•tions. 
BERTZ U'HAUL -302 Lincolnway East 233--1444 

projects a CILA volunteer spends 
at least $100 over contributed funds, 1-------------" 
and addition to .the CILA pro­gram, Work with the underpri­vileged has been carried for the first time to the big cities ­again the significance is that it 
has  been  offered  by  the Notre  
Dame student body,  
If the  spirit of, the  returning  

workers is contagious, Notre Dame will be well represented in these projects in the future. Hopefully this will be the case. 
KASHUBA FOR ENGINEERING .-­SENATOR 


e The Paulist Father is a.modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the ..needs of modern men: He· is free· from stifling formalism, is a pioneer. in using contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people -the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful• fill his mission, is encouraged to . .call upon his own innate talents to help further_ his dedi,cated goal. 
e If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not .pursue an investiga: tion of your life as a· priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man ­interested •in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for 

_it today. 
NATIONArVOCATIONS DIRECTOR 
-.. PAULIST FATHERS . 415 WEST 59th STR_EEl'. ·NEW YORK, N. Y.·.10019 _ 




Page 6 
Film _Society Releases Spring Cinema Schedule 

The Student-Faculty Film So-Breathless starring Jean-Paul ciety has p.iblished its program Belmondo a_nd ·J?anne. Seberg. for the remainder of the spring This ~portmg Life, w1nn~r of semester. The program includes Best P1ctu1;' and !Jest Actor A­
l rt sub]·ect and coming at-wards for 63 at Cannes and the 
5 10

a I · l F'l C . . F
tractions at each regularfeature, ~ternationa 1 m rmcs es-as well as ·three Film Society tival, will appear a month later extras and a double feature. with "Short Visi~", a color 
The Society will present two cartoon on the perils of nuclear Akiru Kurosawa movies in the warfare. . near future. This weekend .Yo-. The last ,two pi:sentauons are jimbo, the second part oThis' Mr. Ht:lot s ~ol1day, a Frenc? Samurai trilogy, will appear in come~~ starring Jacques Tat1, the Engineering Auditorium. w~th "The Day_ Manolete Was Washington Hall will feature High Killed , . and Point of Order, a and Low, an award-winning mys-documentary_ study. of the Mc­tcry, on April 10. Carthy heanng~ ,:,rith ,t,he Ac~,­
Easter Stmday' s Washington demy Awa~-w1nrung.. Gla~s • Hall feature will be Genevieve, All Washington Hall showmgs a comedy starring Kay Kendall, are at 3, 6:50, and 9:15. with ''Water's Edge," winner of 
awards at six international fes­The Student-Faculty Film So­tivals. During Easter week Ing­siety is sponsoring a sl1ort-sub­mar Bergman's , The Virgin ject contest. The contest is open Spring will appear. to all students and cash prizes LJnApril 24-25, Cinema '65 is will be awarded. co-sponsoring a double feature: Contestants must submit a The Big Sleep with Humphrey Bo­script to Tom Vitual 16, 348 gart and Lauren Bacall and Lyons. 
This summer, adventure through 


.·has}he right toUrs atthe right prices.
. . .-. . , . 
Would you like to sun-bathe on the Mediterranean? Browse in 
the louvre? Live with a family in Spain? Or just roam through 
Rome? TWA offers you the adventure of your choice, frnm 
14 to 68 days, at a reasonable price: You can visit Europe's 

historic sights, hear delightful music, watch sparkling ·drama.Tours also combine sightseeing with college 
courses atfamous universities. 
You travel with people your own age and meet people of 
your own age in Europe. Explore the ·most interesting . 
places in England, France, Spain, Italy arid many other 
countries. All accommodations are reserved in advance. 
Travel by comfortable motorcoach, or visit out-of-the­
way towns and villages by bicycle. Wherever you want 
to go, whatever you want to do, TWA has a tour that suits 
you perfectly. For further information, see your travel 
agent. Or contact your local TWA office. 

Nationwide 


Worldwide depend on 

Universitj• of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, April 7, 1965 

Impersonal Pronouns Present Symposium .. 
Impersonal Pronoun Produc­tions is presenting a symposium "German Expressionism, 1900­1925" this week. 
The symposium began in the Library Auditorium last' night with a lecture "The Sounds,'' discussing the music of the per­iod by Rev. Carl Hager, c.s.c. A Cinema '65 film, "The Cabi­net of Dr. Caligari," was shown in conjunction With the lecture. Tonight the emphasis shifts to the literature of the p:!riod, At 
7:15. in the Biology Auditorium, !PP will present the play "Job" by Oskar Kokoscha; and at 9:00, 
"Murder, The Hope of Women," also by· Kokoscha. Between the plays, Dr. Frida Grosser, pro-. fessor of German at St. r-.Tary' s, will lecture on "The Words" at 
~ 
:; 
..f;. 
-~ 
...., 
..:.. s 
t 
!:' 
~ 
.. 
~ 
~ 
,>­
... 
e 
?­
~ 
:...;,. 
"-­
·­
o4' 
'!"~ 
"' 

Nothing can take the press ou_t of Lee-Pr.est slacks 
Not that it's on his mind right now. And it needn't be. Those Lee­Prest Leesures can't help but stay crisp and neat. No matter what you put them through. They have a new permanent press. So the crease stays in. The wrinkles stay out. Permanently. And that's without ironing. No touch-ups, either. They're made from Lee's special blend of 50% polyester and 50% combed cotton. For wash and wear... with conviction. 
Incidentally, that permanent press is the only change we've made 
in Leesures. They still have that lean, honest look, .. smart, tailored fit._ Ne,w Lee-Prest Leesures. Test their· permanent press yourself. It isn;t :necessary, but it's a great way to spend an eve_ning. From $5.98 _to $7.98. 

At the final session Thursday, Academic Commission of Student night, "job" and "i'v1urder" will Government, and the Student­be represented, again at 7:15 and Faculty FUm Society. 
9:00. The 8;00 lecture will fea-Admission to the plays is free, ture "The Visions," a discus.:. but tickets will be required due sion of German expressionistic to the limited seating in the Bio­
painting by art historian Mrs. A. logy Auditorium. Tickets can be 
R. Evans. picked up at 441 Lyons, 205 Far­
The symposium is being staged ley, the Modern Languages De­by IPP, under the sponsorship of partment, and, at SMC, 331 Le­the Modern Languages Dept., the Mans and 102 Moreau. 


Nun Gets Astronaut Offer .. 
~\ Benedictine nun studying for NASA's Manned Space Flight her d,)ctorate in physiology at Center in Houston, Texas. The Notre Dame has passed up an letter said in part: "Your name invitation to apply for astronaut was given us,••as a potentially training. qualified person who might be in-. Sister M. Margaret Bealmear, terested in applYing for this na­
o.s.B. received the letter, ap­tionally significant program,' parently sent in error, from 
.tee-PResr•MLeesures® 
fl, D, Lt• Co., lo,,, K•nsa• City 41. Mo. 
I 
l 
!lI 
1 
l 
,I
I 
~ 
Wednesday, April 7, 1965 University of Notre Dame Page 7 
. Tennis 
,.; Distance Men Sharp as UsuaJ 
Big 10 Champs Clip Irish 6-3 
The Notre Dame track team won two· distance relay rnces last Saturday at the Kentucky Relays in Louisville. Sixteen schools com~ced in the Relays. 
N,D.' s finest race was the dis­tance medley, They wonthis race by 30 yards over second place Miami of Ohio, Pat Conroy led off the race with a 1:51.9 half-
mile; he was followed by Bill Boyle' s 48:0 quarter, Bill Clark's 
The Notre Dame Fencing sea­son closed in high fashion, with · 
an excellent showing intheNCAA 
finals held at Detroit University on March 19-20. Despite a rather disappointing team perfonnance (13th in the country), individual . performances were on the bright side. Senior. co -captain Mike Dwyer finished tenth in the coun­
Spri'ng Sports 
l\lr~ Dominick J, Napolitano an-· · · nounced the schedule of .sports · planned for the spring interhall
. . 
athletic season. Organized com­
s. 
petition· will be conducted in · baseball, softball, golf, tennis, squash, fencing, and volleyball.· · Entries are being accepted im­mediately. from. those haUs in­
.tercsted. in fielding teams in softball or baseball. Each hall is allowed as many teams as it has players. Each individual is limited to play on one team in each sport, . In addition to the hall league there will be campus club competition. Entries for all leagues must be submitted by Friday, April 14th • 
. ,..
-.. 
{ 
BUDETTI 
This is a Candidate.: 
See Him Run. 
Color Him Senior Class President. 

.....
,,. 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ID 'CARD 
for discounts in USA and · 28 countrjes, 

STUDENT ..SHIPS to . Europe 
CHARTER J:.LIGHTS within Europe Write: Dept;.cP 
U.S. National Student Association 
• 265 Madison Avenue 
New York,.N.Y, . 10016 

4:09 mile by Ed Dean. scant foot. . . . . 
The victory in the mile relay In the open twom1le Mike.Coffey was more dramatic,HaroldSpiro was Just nosed out by Tom Cun­led off with a 4:20 and handed ningham ~ Miami, Coffey's the baton to Bob Wais? _i~ third , 9:04, 7 was JUst tw_o te~ths of a place: Walsh ran 1:fsmile m 4:16 ·second ~ff the Wit11;ing tune, and moved the Insh into second Th~ Irish two ~1le relay te~m place; Dean followed with a 4_:17 of Jim Lynch, B1U We~sh, Keith (his second mile of the day) which Small and Lnrry D1rnberger was good enough tomoveN,D. in-placed fourth in that event. 
to the lead; anchorman Clark then fought _off the trailing Tennesse 

3:02,0 three-quaner, and a fine runner and won ·the race by a
F • Al.} A.. · ' • · 
.errence IS . mer1ca 
try in Sabre while SP.nior Bill Ferrence took home All-Ameri­can honorsforthe second straight time. 
Left-hander Ferrence, after a miserable start, loss only one of twenty-one bouts in the second day of competition to finish sixth in foil, He lost only eight matches, 
· Six of the losses were of the 5-4 variety. Had he won three of these. 5-4 bouts he would have.been na­tional collegiate championinfoil. 
KASHUBA FOR .ENGINEERING SENATOR 

Mennwhii"e "in"*chic~go -Notre Dame freshman Jasjlt Singh of New Delhi, India was winning the 
Western Indoor Tennis Cham­pionship. The 17 year older who as a fre311ma11 is not eligible for v:irsity competition. defeated Gary Baxter of lndlana in the 
4 6 1

finals 6-, -·• 
Not quite recovered from their Mexican adventure in the sun, the Irish tennis team lost 6-3 to Indiana ·under the clouds fn Bloomington last weekend. 
The team, still recurperating from their spring trip down to Mexico. were not able to cope with the Big Ten champs. In the singles competitionRaulKatthaln 
and Vincent Chinn playingfourth and sixth, were the only ones to pull out victories. Bill Brown (1) 
and Gary Rieser (3) were able to team up and defeat the Hoosiers in one of the three doubles
h mate es. Over the Spring break, the team
flew to !v!exico City to engage in 
~~::::::::;;:;::.:::-=;:::;:;;;;;;;:-;:;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;::;:;.;:;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;::::;;;;:=aU 

a,JlgJJSt of VisioH 1.... 
Crll/llfflflt ill 0/tiu 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
NOW IN SOUTH BEND rHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -·cEntral 2-1468 
'i:htJf011sc of Vision Jnr. , 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -Chicago 
Win a Honda· just for being born 
Your own birth date may have already won you a Honda in Parker Pen's Birthday Sweepstakes! 
For example, if your birth date is December 1st, 1942, your ent!)' is 12-1-42: Just fill in the coupon below-take it to yourParker Dealer for his signature...:and then send 1tto us. And you . might as well know this: you winners have your choice of 
; q:> PA R K E ·R 
Hondas .•. the powerful C-110, or the deluxe CA-102. ~ 
Congratulations! 

Ne·w Compact Jotter. First girl-size ball pen made for girl-size hands. Uses the big 80,000-wor_d Jotter refill. $1.98. 

['};;; 


'~·. 

<iAA s-wei-fiii&tfii=····-9_i3j:3 
T•Ball Jolter. The world's first ball pen with stain­less steel-writes a clean, clear line up to 80,000 
words•.$1,98. · 

Parker 45 Convertible. The pen that fills two ways­
with handy reserve ink cartridges, or from an ink · bottle. Standard,model-$5.00. 
. . . 
@ .:; .:.:: •. : L .•ifiiiiiiiiiiiA~ i, 
0 UU rTHI PAll!Hlt PIN COlf,.ANYt.l,AHIS'rl1.Ut 'WISCOJISIH'~ U.S.A. I 
·Maker of the world's most wanted pens 
r-----------_------------------, 
: Take this coup0n to your Parker Pen Dealer · Il or get a coupon from him l 
I· I 
I
I I
I 
II 
l 
1 
I 
I 
I1 
I 

Nam,L..----------'-----I
I I Addres;s______________ I 
I 

City,_____:____state·_____ I 
See your Parker Dealer right away for complete Sweepstakes l,rules. No purchase required. Contesf voided In Wisconsin, 
1 

. New Jersey, and wherever else, prohibited by law. Contest· 
1

closes April 30, 1965. . . I 
Send to "Parker swee·pstakes," P: O. Box 4909, Chicago, Ill,' 1
sos11 · · l 
Birth Date I ·IMONTH IDAY IYEAR I--------l 
.____.____.,____,_ Dealer Signature '· 
, 

•some matches with private clU?s. in the area, They returned w1th a record of fourwins, two losses, and one tie, Of the seven team members making the tri~, Pedro Rosello, Ruben Carnd? _a~d Brown turned in the best md1v1­dual performances. . 
Next week the team will travel 
to Columbus; Ohfo.to meet Ohio State and Cincinnati in atriangu­lar meet, 

i 
l 
Are you stin· 
•
v1earsng those creasy kid slacks? 


Get into some wised-upPost-Grads that know where acrease should always be anqwhere it should never be, and how to keep things that wayThe reason is the Koratron~ fabric of-65% Dacron*/35% cotton. No matter how manytimes you wash andwearthese trimly tapered Post-Grad slacks, they'll stay completely neat and make the iron obso­lete. In tan, clay, black, navy or loden, $6.98 in poplin or gabardine, $7.98 in oxford. At swinging stores. · 
Press-Freee · Post-Grad slacks by.



h.1.•· 


University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 7, 1965
Page 8 

Basehallers ·Record is 4-3. 
Lupton Hurls 3 Victories 


· , . h ·7 h . . a walk, a double, and a single 
. times mt e t innmg to wrap up helped produce 4 Indiana runs, By rvUke Read the game, and finish the tripwith and the Hoosiers won out 9-8, In a record of 2-2,
Konieczny, but you canbe sure the Behind the fine hitting of sophs
The buzzers are buzzing and the This past weekend, the Irish the second game, Tencza'sbases 
different squads are jumping cl)aches will giw all the Frosh Pat Topolski and Tom Tencza, traveled.down to Bloominton, In-loaded triple broke open a tight from coach to coach again on a a long hard look at this soft spot, and the steady pitching of sen-_2;..l game arid paved the way for _diana fora three game serieswith Notre Dame's 3_2 triumph, Lup­
muddy Cartier· field. ft may be Some voids may be created by ior Ed Lupton, the Notre Dame 
lndiana, one of the top contenders ton started on the hill for Notrecalled "spring practice", but switches. Defensive tackle. which baseball team has fashioned a for the Big Ten crown this year. Dame, and became the ·firstthat' .s where the difference be­sec:ncd sound with the return of 4-3 record to date as it prepares Dan McGinn took themoundinthe pitcher this year to go the dis­tween these drills and prepara­the two sophomore giants, will be to open a week which includes 5 Friday afternoon encounter, and tance as he allowed 5 hits in pick­
tion for the big game stops. There wid: open this spring, Kevin games -4 of which are at home. Hardy may still be swinging a Topolski, a sophomo,-e from despite a shaky start, hung on to ing up his third win. 
may be more fumbles, more record his first win of the season

missed a ssignmcnts, more drop-· bat, and the plan is to move Tom Michigan City, Indiana, has been This week, Notre Dame takes on 
by a score of 6-5. ,In this game Hope College of Holland, Michi­ped passes, but the spirit and Regner to offeuslw guard (How'd the i:-enl sui:-prise of the Irish Notre Dome scored all 6 rims in


anxiety of the biggest ten weeks you like to be a defensive aiid . nine thus far, One of the major gan in the home opener on Mon--'· 
the first inning, with the big blow day afternoon, They then move on 
on campus is being duplicated. facing 1/-1 ton of Arrington and worries before the start of the No where is the seriousness of Regner thundering down 011 you?j . season was the lack of hitting due being a bases loaded triple by to Evanston, m. for single
a Don't be' surprised if the Old to the departure of the 3 leading 
Topolski. In the first game of game with Northwestern on Wed­
the drills echoed more than on Timers game finds two Cana-· batsmen of a year ago. Topolski, 
Saturday's doubleheader, the nesday afternoon, and then returnthe tense faces of the country's ·Irish took an 8-5 lead into the 
most knowledgeable college foot­dians, Mike Wadsworth (hoping · however, has really come into home for a three game weekend 
bottom of the 9th, but an error,
the knee. stays well) and Bear his own, and after the first seven . with Toledo University on Friday
ball coaches, .who are a better Webster-doing the same fine job games sports a batting average
staff as a result of a reason spent they did In that contest two years of .380 with 11 hits in 29 times ....
workin together. 

ago, at ·bat including 2 doubles, I . triple, and 5 RBI' s, Third Halfback? Lupton, the steady lefthander Wolski's and Eddy'simpl"essive was counted on before the season 
yardage figures would tend to started to be the main cog in the make the halfback situation ap-well -fortified mound corps, pear se\V'a)d up, but a good'half-and that he is of the 4 wins to back on this campus is sitting date, Lupton owns 3 of them with­
._.

pretty., You can bet Coach Pagna out a defeat, and in 17 innings has reviewed many fea: of scdm-has an ERA of 2.10. ... mage mm looking for that aH-The season opened over the ­necessary third halfback, If they spring break in Memphis,· Ten­ev;r decide to mO'fe the 'Jeep' nessee where the Irish rallied (Wolski) to fullback; theneedwill from a 5-3 deficit to beat Mem­
bccome even mo~--e apparent. phis State 6-5, in the opener of a 
.":._r

Ara . Right now I'd have to go with a 3 game series, However, the next " These drills and scrimmages, tough freshman from Appleton, two games on Tuesday and Wed­
' 

much of which will be recorded Wis,, who calls himself'Rocky' nesday saw Memphis State co~e on film for summer reference, (Bob Blier), . back to win' the 3 game series· by· 
...~~ (I

-! will confirm or deny ideas the The de a re f scores of.6-1 and 4-3.. . · coaches have formulated forfill.:. P rtu .s O Mr, Kantor , The team then moved over to ­ingthe gapsleftbyourgraduating and M:_. Fa~rell hav~ left a big Jonesboro, Arkansasfora3game Rugger John Redding (58) escorted by Nat Davis (42) heads goal­
ward · in last Saturday's match with the Windsor, Ontario ·,team.
stars. Coach Parseghian will hole _r1ght .m the middle .of the -series with the Indians ·of 
( Photo by Bill ~lcGuire). · .
chiefly feel. the . loss of his backfield. Speedy Larry Conjar Arkansas State.· However, the 
· eighteen monogram winners on and ~9b ~~1:kle: who pro'r_'.ed his first twogainesofi:he serieswere offense· as he considers the de..; blocking anihty mtbe_Stategame, washed out, and the 'only game ·Ruggers·Beat Canadia~s fense "fairly solid". look like the· foremosr con-played was won by the Irish, 5-2. 
times Toohey added the two extraIt's hard to make judgements te_nder_s, but.keep your eye on a In this one, Tom Szajko collect-The Notre DameRugbyClubwon points with his kicking.

before the· spring tests are over, stro_ng .• freshman whose Iam:i_dry ed 3 of the 10 hits and Topolski its 16th str~ight ~ame here Sat­Besides those who scored, it wasfor the coaches may switch a boy tag ~ads ~aul May. . got 2, as the Irish scored three ui:ciay, routmg Wmdsor Ontario, the passing of Bob Mier, the de­completely after a couple ofdays, Phil Shendan' s sure hands and A • . 3 d Canada 3 5-0 before more than fense of Ted Valenti and Mike 
· But here goes•• , aggressive spiritmightmakehim rr1ngtoll r 200 people. . . 
·Carroll, the outstanding long runs 

. None of the defensive backfield an All-Ame:-ican tight end. · . The Irish win came in a superb of John Reding, and the all around will be attending graduation Gmitter for Snow .. i N· 1• . } team effort which.saw. seven dif­play of t_eam captain Mike .
parties. An effective defensive · Around c~mpus there's much. a a IOna S ferent men score and ,at least Murphy that led to the 35 point
backfield is like a basketball zone · · four others 'play outstanding
concern with replacementfor our . , By Tom Sullivan passing and defensive games. In output; defense. It moves like a glove, c lif · · All A · D
a onua -menca..,s. , on Irish wrest11·ng· cap.ta1·nDickAr-fact, the only disappointment of · Notre Dame has scored more The year's . experience should Gmi·tter, · a ~..,,fenSive· ena, doesn•t · gt · h b d h the entire 'afternoon came a half than 35 points only one othertime. 
l~ave us four well .coordinated drop many when he's switched nn on, w o reez.e t rough the This cam against Palmer Insti­
fmgers. ._ to offense. Southpaw Dan McGinn regul_ar season undefeated, won an hour before game time when tute last year when the IrishThe return of a healthy, Harry will oive upfiringforCoachKline 3rd place in the NCAA tourna-the ruggers were notified that rolled up 40 points.
Long (pound for po r1 be o-inent held March 27, 28, 29 in they could not use Cartier Field 
. . un.., may and trot across the roak i:o test Next Saturday the ruggers will
the toughest hitter on the squad) hi re· . . b'lity. S d N" k Laramie, Wyo. as had been planned. 
, . . . s ce1vmg a 1 , pee y 1c N t D th ·d · be going for their third Com­
d

. an a g~owmg Ala~PageWillgi.ve Rassas,. who's one of the most In his firsttwomatchesthelrish ore ame reatene twice mon wealth Cup Tournament vie~ 
us a pair of defensive ends capa-det . . d k th d, star exhibited the great form he , early in the first half before Skip tory at Virginia University. 
ble of turning in any end run.' '.ennme wor erson e squa had shown throughout the season Speth scoredfor a 3-0 lead. Three .. 


. . . · . has been running patters with an · · 
Jim Lynch 1s m need of three eye toward. split end.· Mike by pinning Bruce Jacobson of . minutes later Speth scored again, associates to helpperform Coach M G'll ?lO d f d Pennsylvania in 3:23 and Manka-and from tlµs point on itwasonly Ray's intricate red dogs. The th~ :0 ;/i;;Ha~:,:~l~~~h~:: to State's Mike Pierro ·in 2:so. a matter ofhowmanyNotreDame 
s~ots vacate~ byCarrol_l, Kostel-. a iarge group of freshman ends; Arrington ran into difficulty in . would score. · 
ruk, andMaghe1carebemgsought . his third contest when Oklahoma At halftime the score was 12-0 
b ·er . . f ). J hn The quarte-rba_ck picture iseven , .cin the strength of D1'ck Bell's
Y o mention a. ew • • • o . d T S h · • h State's Russ Win__er gained a last
.· . d . mo4-e crowe • om c, oen 1st e touchd d ·1 ·· · · T h ·,
H (pu

orney' t _so~e. time m unng. best freshman prospcctbut.isun.;.. second take-down to come out on . own. an . amie . oo ey s . CarroU s bnef m3ury). • .Arunas proven. Bill.-'Gator' Zloch, who ·top in a 3-1 decision. penalty. kick. . . . . . V_asys (shows real good speed)... did some C!ltching last season; The. first round consolation T~e second halCwas a scoring Pete Duranko (held the job be-will get anothe_ r s_hot atthrowing. • ,_match brought the.Erie, Pa. jun-. parade for the Irish. FirstHarry
· h rd f h 1 · · · Steele scored, thenBen Bell, then fore his injury)•••Dick Swattl~d , Sandy Boiivechio has dropped a ion a · a oug t ..;o overtime 
(quick and determined soph) and.. required couse, so he'll ·be mak-. win over Ted Tuinstra of. Iowa Nat Davis, then Dick Bell again, Jim Yacknoiv (225 poundurFrosh ing the trip back to South Bend State. In the finals Arrington an_d finally Phil Gra~an. Four ·who likes to knock.) .erther _this summ!r or next fall,. proved to be too/ much for Utah ,----~~""':,_,;__ I· .. · ··L" . (depending on how things break. State's Bob Boughton in a 3-lde-' ICyr's Barber Sh · · t
I

nter1or ine for the little rightyfrom Wain-cision. . op 
Bald George ·aroddeke seems wright, Ohio), Hugh O'Malley, ,-----------• MICHIANA'S LEADING I like the prime·candi&ite!orbald-who prior to his spring injury. . .KASHUBA FOR· BARBEitSHOP •I. _ingNormNicola'sjob(firstinto wasnumingupwiththeHeisman I 100:-102South Main St. I 
· the ·end· zone a!ter a score). Trophy winner, may stand ·che. ENGINEERING ' O · c
Offensive tackle and guard are best.chance. · ppo5 1te. ourt Ho.use .· I the real problem spots. The best · Whoever the general, Ara's SENATOR . South .~end;. Indiana_ J.. bets look like verteran Bob Meek-army l roll' ·g · · l ·
s . m agam. ....,_______.:..____..j .. ---~-:---­er, Harry Alexander, PaulSieler ______..;..:..__ ..,____" ,, •V' "" "'. ····-'-•"•'·~ ------~..;.________.., 
and (now injured)· conv~rted eod , // I ·),../h) · • · TY P I NG. DRAFTING Tom Talaga, but we're.so thin ~..,-l;fali:C ;-1/loJrt/JC(,()I. 
S1 ides ·' 

the transfer ofsomeofour.bigge?r '-' Term Papers'guards (le, Pete Thornton) and. P_RO:ITABL[ BUSINESS. SATISFYING HOBB~ . Dissertations 111 ustrat ions 
ends to tackle wouldn't-be too FREE-CATALOG

& SPECIAL .COP I ES 5AT1SF1eo:
much of ·_Ji· surprise, The top INTRODUCTORY 

Xerox CUSTOMERS 
freshman looks like 245 lb, Rudy OFFER. Mui ti Ii th •re Our best, 
Complete easy instruc­tions for making st~rling ,' A.D.S. copies Only
PUBUC CAFETERIA i sliver and gold filled ro­
I 
saries plus-rosaries to be 
. South Dining Hall used by the Miss ions. 5¢ ...,.1u,,a,1,u11.,,...,..0 
Send for yours today. No 
obtigalion. Reducing & Enlarging Drawings and Typing-for

SODA FOUNTAIN 
; 
,. 

·. ;, SLIDES DISSERTATIONS . MULTILITH 
· .\lon. thru Fri. 

' LEWIS & COMPANY
7::,0 A.M.-9:30 ·P:)L· 822 SOUTH BEND AVE. · 232 88ij8
50D 3rd Ave., Troy, N. Y;



--·-------I 


:-=:. 
\r. :,
--'~1­
1,\ 
,.,·. ,.. ~ 
::: 
•,z0 
:c 


.
:::,
Fashion ~ -0 
!;.
Leaders "' 
:( 
... 
0
for ... .. < 
"':::,
..
High School· z' 
... 
I)
·and 0 
~ 
:c l
College men .,,. < l 
.:>
.... 





.Foto News Li tho -Ramarr Publishing, 'Elkhart, Indiana •. 



