J 
lI:~ " 
'fl,L~ 
j .. 
·~ 


..,.~, 
,~­~VJ.,. 
,. 
I 

Junior Weekend Acquaints Parents With Campus Life 

CommitJee heads fo_r Junior Parent Week~nd pose for a group pic­ture. Seated left to right are Fred Gund (Commerce Reception), Tony Andrea (Accomodations), Bob Basche (Arts and Letters Reception), Barry McNamara (Pr,esident's Dinner), Geoffrey Bartz (Science Re• ceptionJ,. Dick Angezotti (Break~ast and Luncheon), and Gary Mor• row (Military Receptions), Standing are John Buck (AL Reception), Mike Grohman (Engineering Reception), Mike McCarthy (Pres. Re­ception), Steve Haverty (Publicity), and Greg Callahan (Tickets). 
Not pictured are General Chairman Joe King and Executive Chair­man Tom Raeber. 
The annual junior Parents-Son Weekend, the twelfth renewal of an affair originated byMr.J.Ar­thru Haley, presently director of Public Relations at Notre Dame, 
will take place this weekend. 
The letters and anecdotes of the Notre Dame student never ade­quately describe his campus life; so the activities of the Junior Parents -Sons Weekend are geared to expose the parents of Notre Dame students to various facets of the students' academic and cultural life, The schedule of events is designed to provide a tour of the campus anditsfacil­ities and to permit some contact between parents and faculty. 
The importance attached to the weekend by the University admin­istration is evident from the fact that Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has rentedaprivateplane so that he can commute to the campus from his present work at the Mississippi civil rights tri­als. 
Registration will take place on Friday from 4:00 to 8:00 p.m. in the lobby of the Morris Inn. A packet, complete with a map of the campus, various student p.ib­lications, and name i:ags, will be given the parents by the BlueCir­cle which will handle tickets and general direction of the activi­ties. At 8:30 p.rri. on Friday "The Caretakers" will be presentedin Washington Hall by the Universi­ty Theatre. 


Plans Revealed 
THE 


For Projects· In N.D. Future 

' Several details about plans for Notre Dame's not-too-distantfu­

OF NOTBE BAM!E 
ture came out in a discussion be­
On Saturday morning classes will be open in many of the depart­ments for visiting parents, per­mitting . them to get some idea of their sons' daily routine, Also on Saturday morning, tours of the Memorial Library, the germfree labs of Lobund research Center, the Computing Center, the Radia­tion Research Building and Ni-· euwland Science Hall will be con­ducted. 
From 11:45 a.m. to 1:00 p,m., luncheon will be served· in the East Wing of the South Din­ing Hall. 
Beginning at 1:30 p.m. and last­ing lllltil 3:30 p.m., receptions will be held in the various colleg­es with the deans and facul­ty members of each college pre­sent. These receptions have al­ways held the possibility of being the highlights of the Weekend -­due mainly to the congeniality of the professors who participate. 
From 3:30 to 5:30 p.m., Father-Hesburgh and other University officials will be presentinthe La­Fortune Student Centerto receive 


tween student leaders and Fa­the parents. 
-thers Hesburgh, Joyce and Mc­Volume 3, Number 11 · Notre Dame, University. February 10, 1965 The highlight of the Weekend will Carragher Sunday night. be the President's Dinner in the 
Since the Holy Cro~s Brother.s Stepan Activities Cent:r at7:~0
Stay hall Plan Proposed
will vacate Dujarie Hall when • , p,m. Speaking at the dinner will their new center is built, the hall . be Father Hesburgh, John Phil­wm ·· be leveled. It-its place is lips, the Junior Class President, 
planned a new theology center. and Joseph King, Chairmanofthe


Senate Votes, Next Tuesday 
Father Hesburgh hopes to bring weekend. a biship active in the Vatican At last night's Student Senate hall plan, but he expl~ned that will be 120, 112, 104 and 108, and On Sunday the parentswill wor-Council to Notre Dame to head meeting, the Committee prepar­this was necessitated by the fact in Farl:Y 88, 80, n and 78. ship with ~heir sons in Sacred 
this center. ing the new Stay Hall plan submit­that the definite proposal was de-Accordi~g to t~s proposal, this Heart Church at 8:lS Mass. 'i" A social center will be con­ted their final proposalforanex­cided only very recently. He and system will be m eff:ct f~r two Concluding the schedule of e­..-:·, ,., structed on the road betweenNo­perimental system _instituting hi s committee. are organizing . o~ three ye~rs, at which time it vents will be a communion break­
tre Dame and St. Mary's. true four-class integrated halls meetings in each hall to discuss will be subJect to an eval~tion, fast in the North Dining Hall at 
'{ ,;,i.
' ... If it can be handled through stu­for three halls for a trial period. tbe proposal. and considerationforextenSionto 9:SO a.m. Speaking at the break­dent government, it is possible Also in theirreportwasarecom­if the planisapproved, next year the entire_ campus, . fast will be former Notre Dame that the floor prefects maybe re­mendation for a three-class quota Alumni, Dillon and Farley will At that time, there shouldbetwo football star andHeismanTrophy lieved of their disciplinary system in .the other upper-class house almost the same number of new under~raduate residence winner, Johnny Lujack, who will ,status. In this event, the students halls during the time. students from each class, ForA-halls, providing around 600 more speak .· as a graduate on the will handle any cases in which The hall senators have received lumni, it will be 90 freshmen, 82 spaces for ~dents. Probably200 thoughts of aformerNotreDame. some regulation is needed. This questionnaires on the ~stern, and sophomores, .78 juniors and 80 Continued on page 3 · 
is especially relevant to the pro-will distribute · them to: the stu-· seniors; in Dillon the numbers ,1: •. posed stay-hall system, butisnot dents this weekend. The final vote _i: ~ impossible without it. on the. new plan will be taken ~ Recently a ·go-ahead has been the Senate meeting nextTuesday. f given for construction on -the Nick Sordi, who heads the com-· mittee preparing this proposal, 

r,..,,. 
-.{···. ~ planned convocation and athletic 
i _ ·center.,When that is completed said that students noticed the lack ; · · "-)... the fieldhouse will be leveled and of advance p.iblicity on the stay-
r: 2~_,,../ 
that area left open as, anew quad. 
l\r-' 'Caretaker' Opens Fi. In Washington Hall 
:; ,_ The Caretaker, the London and erings by staying on as caretaker ;·; New York hit play written ·by of their decaying old house. But }'. British piaywrightHaroldPi.nter, the whining, . spiteful old bum c' -~. will be presented by the Univer-spoils this offer for more com-r sity Theatre ,in Washington Hall fort than he ever known by trying I' · on Thursday, Friday, and Satur-to turn the brothers against each ;j 't! . day, Feb. 11-13, at_ 8:30. Further other, and he _is finally expeUed ·t; performances are to be Feb. 18, from his. newfound "paradise." ! 19, 20 at 8:30 and Sunday, _Feb, 14 Mr. Fred Syburg, publicity di­
at 2:30. rector .for the production de-· With a cast of only three men, scribes The Caretaker as "un-
The Caretaker ran for .thirteen conventioal ·but pertinent. The monms aner its overwhelmingly main theme is a problem incom-­successful opening in the spring munication," he observed. "Or-SMC's Bonnie Karsh gets a little extra attention from Dean Pedtke in his Music Theory Class. Bonnie of 1960. It was also enthusiatical-iginally the difficulty lies be-is one of several St. Mary's girls taking classes here this semester. (Voice photo by John Sawyer) 
ly received by New York critics tween the two brothers, until the Coed Classes and playgoers when it reached tramp is introduced as a means Broadway in fall 1961. ofcommunicationbetweenthem." 
N D SMC 'B • 
Of the writer Pinter, John Mc-He fails.in this respect by sett-. otre a·me,' . . eg1n
Carten, drama critic of the New ing them at odds with one another. Yorker said, "In his ability to Rev. Arthur s. Harvey, C.S.C. catch and hold and manipulate an is directing the play' s combina-'C ' c·I .
. 

audience he seems to me a dram-tion of comedy and undefined, · o ·operatIv·e · a·Q SeS 
atist of the greastest power." ·poetic terror, and John Patrick . • · · _ . .:::, The Caretaker is a suspense. Hart profides the atmospheric laden close-up of three strange setting of a menace-laden, rubb-The long-awaited co-operative vision (junior or senior) courses needed facilities. For example, 
. and ominous men, each damaged ish-strewn attic in a decaying classes with St. Mary's have in their major at St. Mary's and he pointed out, Notre Dame could 
~,, -~ in a different way. Two of them house. David Garrick isthe stage made a modest beginning this SMC girls may do the same here. make use of the SMC drama and 
,. 
~ .' . are half-crazy brothe·rs, played manager and Robert Melka su­semester. At least five boys are There is no additional charge for ·art facilities, which are far su­,. by Al Bunn and David Clennon. pervised the construction of the taking SMC courses, in subjects the exchange classes, as long as perior to those here, and SMC

\ .... 
The third, played by Terry set. like African History, Acting and it remains on a limited, selective students could take courses like
:,c '·~ 
Francke, isa snivellingoldtramp Tickets will be on sale daily at Stage Design; and six or more basis, and normal credit will be advanced Russian or: Physics,
!.--:· ;­
who has been brought home by 4. All, seats are reserved and girls are studyingatNotreDame, given. However, degrees will still which couldn't· otherwise lie a-, the eerily quiet older brother to tickets are priced at $1.50. Re­in Physics. Russian, Education, be given in the "home" institu-vailable at a small school like share his refuse-littered room. duced price for Notre Dame and Commwiication Arts and Music. tion. St. Mary's. 
.......
--
As . the plot unfolds · each St. Mary's Faculty-.and students According to Rev. Charles Dean Sheedy sees the present Looking ahead 40 years or so, brother-unbeknown to the other-. is $1.00. Phone reservations may Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the Col­program as only the. start of a Sheedy forsees "a single edu­offers the tattered vagrant a be made by calling 284-7054 be­lege of Liberal Arts, Notre Dame broad intercampus cooperation. chance to endhishomelesswand-tween 1 and 4 daily. students may enroll in upper di-in which the schools could share, Continued on page 7 

Page 2 
Staying Powerfor Drooping Halls 

·In the next four days each student will be The new experiment is a step in the right thought that it would be dangerous for fresh-approached by the senator that represents direction to lessen these indoctrination loss-men to mix with upperclassmen and see the him and quescioned as to his feelings about es. way they spend some of their time, whether the.flaring Stay Hall pr_op<>sal. (see article on Objectfons arise as to the practical prob• that be in bull-sessions or downtown. But page one) The Senate; ·guided by those reac• lems of moving upperclassmen into a hall these aren't so dangerous at all. Freshman tions will vote next Tuesday night. . on the freshman quad. Yet in the experiment, Year programs make clear where the first 

The experiment should go on. volunteers, those interested in seeing stay-year students responsibilities lie. Also, \··,.. ·•,.., 
The present system we are trying to live un-hall work, those who can see the challenge; there are a tremendous number, we believe a ' d~r does not .work. lt makes only a naked be-will be the ones to make the initial intcgra-heavy majority, of upperclassmen who would ginning in mixing classes, promoting hall tion. It's likely that only a very few would be willing to shoulder the respon~ibility ol( /~. \ :1 unity and replacing the now outdated and need to relocate because of this trial, . and making it clear to a frosh that education _is~~);J,· ·tl awkward class with the hall unit. There is then not necessarily to the . new quad. first, study is vital, relaxation is controlled, ; ·. ;~l 
· still the migration of the fortunate, to·a few More substantial objections come up in the and always geared to a careful allotment of • ! '_'good" halls. time. ·The new system holds exciting possibilities.--sii": __ ..., =--------..;,.-Freshmen are rumored to say that they want 
•. The first, and perhaps the basic one, is the _ -=::-+= ~ to stay where they are, to "learn how to ad-• f i chance for stimulating personal relationships --~~=-==-just". However, the adjustment value of p~n• -• between student and student as well as r ic, intermingled with wrestling and pillow• between student and priest. Th.is, because . •. fights hardly seems as worthwhile as the people have a chance to live together, let , chance to pr~fit from the mistakes, as weli time go by, grow and develop together. Noth-r: . •as the guidance of upperclassmen.. Not to ing can replace the effects of time in this ,, anyone sincerely interested in why he should z--c: ).
. , ., I 
needed maturation of friendship and under-/ be here at least. · , .. ' •­
:it:::,in!~a!~;fu~a:~1es~~:et~=s~;s~/~;::t;I P. f!e t~:e!e:n::n::1~:rt~:~a~:::::i;;e;;~: ~~-~ 
··1 
; _of a. semester or a year. As it is now, or 1/ 1l cers and the Challenge 11 program secures. 
,1
! . 4 
would be if we returned to the old system, wet I 1/, The class can't fill the gap. The present grow withouts roots, too many of us casting , system makes only the poorest of beginnings, around in loneliness. ·' , showing more of the problem than the worth ~ . Secondly. the new classes that are entering,-m%~1~i;~;r~~l4~ .. ! •,.A because of its self-defeatism, its hodge• · ~ . 
. hold a vibrant potential for.the University, on.-......,_.,. .1,, c.iuorAT MZ"' l1'r. ,~ 111 podge of room switching, trapping of those paper they are smarter, more mature and bet-r~ "o"'t4;'1' twith medium averages in "forced•• rooms and ,,. ter primed for university life each year. Yet -t,.€.u ro migrations to the elder of the tradition-man-,t this statistical potential is not being direct·· e,~e.t _gcrs like Sorin, Badin or Lyons.. _. ed into creative and useful channels --it · "'""f ih41;.llllt1~-.1n., No decent alternatives to the new proposal\ •·~ J-spends itself in hat-thievery, boorishness, ~is:~ ~ Jir""v<J.~~~ ?"exist, either we flounder where we are or we and a sad type of social selfishness. Spent, ,,,1f[. m. SiNf • h 1 1 · h,

•
u-""~ l/Atf-.1 'ff', :-c:-:::J,~X,e,retreat to a pos1t1on · ope ess y .10 t e past. y--...,. -it means seniors graduating with too little l~ ' • "·' ~ . ,·~ Both ways are losing ways, for ourselves an~ -i' consciousness of their worth, .and with too l"rA L"'D1t-r1:oa1 IES h f 11 · · 
much background in vulger t1'me. wasting • _ 41 ,nY IJALL IS l.l8ERTr,· EQl,UU.,J1Y. r#\" 1"'"~/T • t ose to O ow us. · 
'· We need to watch the new experiment. It de;. intec 
mands our · giving it a. chance to succeed. ,,
: 

Junior & The Independents 

. Junior is going to be wearing· a suit this that you can get a firmer grip. on our way of ··· . portance to meet our teachers, we consider it weekend. Members. of the junior class that is. living, a way that you've promoted. • just as. important to have you. Remember,_ ~ ... For dad and mom may be on the campus tak­
But at the same time we want to make a kind . however, that those teachers .. may not. feel ing part in· the 12th annual Junior Parents­of apology, an apology for your missing a 
·that way about you. For they are becomingSons. Weekend.· 
meeting with what makes this school what professional men, not really a part o(the stu­That suit, a bit out of line with the usual it's intended to be, a place of learning. In 
dents life, alienated researchers without a garb, is a mark of the pride and respect that short we apologize for your not getting to 
deep sense of responsibility to what has be­he feels for his parents and his University as you know, the in­
meet with our professors --come their "place. of business". Theirs per­he points out the facets of his many sided spiring teachers we wrote home about· in our haps isn't the same kind. of deeper-than-fund­life here. And from the other side, that pride first couple of years. 
-~a1sing fee~ing that brings Fr.. Hesburgh back ~ . is reflected by the parents, and rightfully so, 
Oh, we know that there are plenty of chanc­tr?m press10g work in the Miss. civil rights . 
as they tour the campus, getting on the "in" es for you to meet with them. There a

are trials, or that last year brought him back from\' ... side of their son's activities. long list of open-houses. There are slews of South America. , \-"' 
Potentially this can be a fruitful weekend. punch bowls. But for every thirty professors · They may be your sons' rightful heroes, but \ One of the most significant any parent inter~ .that could, and indeed should, be taking their we ag~in apologize that you w_on 't get to ' ~. ested in getting the feel of this University ·part around those punch bowls you perhaps meet them, · to feel your interest~
iet . them ~ can spend with a son. To· all those . who can . will find five. · · 
,Perhaps it's like that old saying•.. ''inde­be here we wish a welcome~ sincerely hoping We know that parents consider it of vital im-. pendent as hogs on_ice." 
.Student Government 
This is the first ~ppearance-of 

THIE 
a weekly column. :;tatinR student In Stay Hall Residence, various plans were 
government positron on: cu"ent 
tried until a satisfactory experimental one
issues, It is called for in a re• 
·cent amendment to the Voice was found. For intra-university exchange, a 
w
policy by the. Student Senate.· 11 student-faculty-administration board was cre­


does not necessarily-represerrt ated · and meets twice. monthly, Several im­OF NOTRE llAMIE 
. the editorial position of portant projects
the have gotten impetus here;
Voice. · 

the . South Bend Relations Committee under . . · · 
The intent of this article. Paul Knipper, improved student government•. Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni-
is to give an overview of campus communications of which this col-versity ~f Notre Dame, Office, Room 2A, Lafortune Student Center; 
John Gearen • d h • ·d . • l d .Post Office Box I ·
student government, s'um­umn ts. a part, an t e aca em1c ca en ar -· • . ­

work. . . . . Board of Review•••••••••Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearen
rriarizin_g ~h~ first semes­

ter, and g1v1ng alrospec­The calendar introduces the second semester. Tom Mul-EDITOR.•··•·•· • • • •, • • • • .••• , .• ; •. ,BARRY JOHANSON·. 
tus for die secon . vihill has arranged for a professional poll among stu• · Associat~ Editor:. • • • • • • • • • , , , , •••••••••• ,Grover Nix III 
The major work of the dents and faculty. The aim is to bring the results (the News Editor:. • • • · • • • • • • • •• , ,..•••••••••• John Buckley·· ·{" first semester -was in four overwhelming pr~ference !or. the old exam. sc.hed~le) be• Assis!ant ~ews Editor~. • • • • .• ,., .••• _. •••• ,B~b.Lumpkins .· _.,,,._ . areas·. For the Honor Code fore the Academic Council in March. An 1nd1cat1on that News staff .. • • • • • • • , • • • • • , • Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Dan ,, ·":-, 
.·• student government pro­the second se_nies.ter program· i~ more ambitious is that Murray, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick \_:. .. J 
• 
f.,., , vided eight of the twelve two ot~er '!1aJor issues co~e 10 the _next _tw~ · week~. Veit, stephen Feldhaus, RayFoery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schleef, ;_ t 1 The .fast ts Stay Hall Residence. ~1ck Sord1 and his S · · Bil~ _Sis1:3-, Tom Anderson, Pat Strickler, .and Jim Elliott I'\..• . 
.. . men who during a three 
' · week nightly sessions committee have worked out an experimental system of 5r,ort.s Editor.• • ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •, ,Geo~e_KI:t!_s~L:~.,. \ fqur year integration in three halls and quota systems ports Sraff:, • • • • • • • • • • ,Joe Ryan, Mike Mooney, l\71Ike Reacn3a:J\
period chose from 100 

.. , the Honor in the rest, It will be fully explained and editorialized. Ferguson, Bob Campbell, .Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger· . -l-·
carididates 25 

· . Court. ·. judges. · Student ·The·second is a telephone referendum·' the admiriistra-BuS!nes~ Manager:, • • • ..• • • • • • • • • • • • • • , ••••John 0'Hanlon i, 
· · d h-· bstac1es. ·h d' . d th.1s· Advertising· Manager• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · . . · K socha ,!' · 
government had an $11,000 · t1on an p one company o a prevente . " en. , for three years before Paul Walker cleared them. This ~~vert.ising ~alesmen:. • •. • • • • • • • • • • ,Cregg arid Roger ~arron
.. deficit; the debt was paid 
vote also comes soon · · , PY Editors,, • • • • •." • • • • • • • • • • ,Bill ~tz, Lou Bartoshesky ~ 
· with administration help 
l• .. • . h. ff . . . M 1· . . Layout Editor:, • . . . Dennis Kem .. -,;,..
· and internal controls were 0 1ther po 1cy dmattefrs are 101t ~· o ermg;_ ore rea h1st1c Assistant:Layout Edl;o•r: • • • -• • • • • • ·-' • • • • • • • • • Steve Vogel 
established which should .c ass. cut an cur ew. regu auons, for instance,. ave • • • • ...._. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ... 
b . . . 1·· . . ( d h . ·r bl ) . Layout Staff... • . D ve Griff'
ins~re a •balanced budget . ~en g~ven pre 1m10arY. an . somew at avora e con-P f de • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • a . . . m -: . 
· s1derat1on by the ·adm1n1stratton. · . . · · roo rea . r,. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.• ••••,_.,.,John Radosevichthis year and in the future. · · -· · · · h ·· · . Circulation Manager· · T d p rvin
-Jo n Gear en . _ 1 •• .• • • • • • • •• • ·.• • • • -. • • • -• • · •• e u Student B_ody President 

.. 
'¢ 
Page 3

February 10, 1965 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University
·~­
! 
... 
Stay -Hall (continued from page 1) Marriage Institute Engi,neers Hold 
..P of these will be used to alleviate ' iod, will require a great deal of Open House crowding in the other halls, and ingenuity, Forexample, each hall To Begin March 3 
the rest will be usedto absorb off would have to inform incoming The 1965 Engineering Open campus students. There will still freshmen about the hall, and about The sixteenth annual Marriage English Department. On March House will be held this Saturday be students forced off, though. any particular hallcharacterthat Institute, presented by the Senior 31, the speaker will be. Dr, Louis and Sunday, February 13 and 14, The polls to be circulated this might develop. Class under the sponsorship of Leone, a well-known marriage coinciding with the Junior Par­
·weekend ask if students favor in­Sardi also explained why the the theology department, begjns counselor, who will lecture on ents weekend. In the past large stituting this experimental sys­halls were chosen as they were this year on Wednesday, March aspects of married life as seen compainies had presented exhib­tem, retaining the present ar­for the experiment, Farley was 3. by a doctor; finally on April 7, its, but for the past two years rangement or going back to the picked, especially because it isa Primarily for se~iors twenty-Rev. lmbiorsky, noted marriage the exhibits have been devisedby one-class halls, Another question hall on the freshman quad, with one and over, the Marriage In-counselor, will discuss the topics the students for this annual af-· is whether the students favor the adequate rooms, so that a com-· stitute hopes to provide a proper of love, sex, and birth control, fair, quota system for upper-class parison might be made between attitude and working knowledgb This marks the tenthconsecutive Forty or fifty exhibits are ex­halls. freshmen the~ and in the fresh­of the varied aspects and ideals year that Fr. Imbiorsky has pected from among the eight en­
The proposal isbeingvotedonin man halls, and again with the of marriage from experienced spoken at the Notre Dame Marri­gineering departments: Civil, E­the senate, rather than in a stu­freshmen in the halls on the main lecturers and marriage counsel-age Institute. lectrical, rvtechanical, Engineer­dent referendum, in an effort to campus., ors. The speakers presentedthis Ticket. sales will be held in ing Science, Chemical, Metallur­
focus attention on the senators Dillon and Alumni were chosen year will include Rev. Henry room IE of the Student Center on gical, Aerospace, and Architec­and to force them to take a stand because they were big enough to Sattler, a marriage counselor in February 11, IS, 18 from 7:30 -ture. Some of the featured ex­and defend it, ' compensate for . the amount of New York City, speaking on the 9:30 P,M only, The price is$1.25 hibits will be: SteamTurbineEn­
Sordi feels that the new system freshmen being displaced from spriritual side of marriage, on and only a limited number of gines (Mechanical), Electron .... 
is needed to alleviate a present Farley, while still allowing a pro­March 3; Mr. and Mrs,.J. Razel, tickets are available, Attendance Microscope (Metallurgical), Sand 
problem. The recent change and per proportion between the class­speaking on the practical aspects at four of the five lectures will Flume, Model Spillway (Civil), growth of the university has re-. es in the hall, Also, these halls of married life, March 10; Mr. guarantee the participant a Supersonic Wind Tunnels in Ac­sulted in the fact that studentsare have recently been merely stOP­and ,Mrs. J. Meagher, speaking Marriage Institute certificate tion (Aerospace). 
.. 
at least statistically becoming over places for students who on the romantic side of marri-that fulfills his obligation of at­An award will be made to the better, But the climate seems to wanted to live in other halls. The age on March 17 -Prof rvteagh-. tendance at Pre-Cana· and Cana best department, while monetary 
be changing. With the increasing rectors of both halls were in fa.;. er ls amemberoftheNo;reDame conferences prior to marriage. prizes will he made to the top size· of the school and ability of vor of the new plan, and thought three individual projects, the students, it's becominghard­that this could give their halls Dr. Kertesz Wins Grant Susses -will be · provided for 
er tq get along. There is nqfocal . some sort of continuity and dis­transportation between the five point for the constructive release tinction. For Research In Modern Diplomacy engineering buildings on Saturclay of energy. The new quotasproposedforuP­from 9:00 to 12:00 and on Sunday 
Under the present system, he perclass halls are: for Badin, 50 Dr. Stephen Kertesz., Franklin semesters of 1965 :md 1%6t'lUP.­from 1:30 to 4:00. says, there is no way a new ap­sophomores, 48 juniors and 50 Miles Professor of Political Sci­dertake the project. proach can develop. Certainly a seniors; Howard 120 sophomores, ence_· at Notre Dame, has been A former Hungarian Minister student doesn't feel part . of a 30 juniors and 35 seniors: Lyons awarded a $13,500 grant by the to Italy, Prof. Kertesz joined the class, He is a part of the univer­78, 75 and 80; Morrissey 250, 61, Rockefeller Foundation for re-' Notre Dame faculty in 1950, be­sity, but often an anonymous part. and 65; Pangborn 74, 72 and 75. search' in Europe and North A­came director of the Soviet and 
To Sardi, the hall is the logical The quotas in St,Ed'swillbelOO merica on the methods, role, . East European Stuclii!'f'Frogram unit for this attachm~nt, this in~ sophomores, 20 juniors and 50 _meaning and limitations of mod­in 1955, and was appointed head terest, seniors; Sorin 62, 55 and 59; ern diplomacy. of the Committee on Internation­-He realizes the problems four­Walsh 87, 60 and 56; Zahm 250, Prof, Kertesz, head of the Uni­al Reiations the following year, 
-,._ year stay hall will involve, some 45 and 36. versity's Committee on Interna­In 1963, he received the Lay 
t simply because of the lack of phy­Breen -Phillips,. Cavanaugh, tional Relations and author of se­Faculty Award for distinguished sical accommodations in the Keenan and Stanford will remain veral books in the field, expects service to the Universityandwas halls. The.solution totheseprob­strictly freshman halls, Juniors to visit NATO countries in carry­named tothe FranklinMiles chair lems after the experimental per-and seniors will fill the rooms in ing out his research. Hehasbeen of political science, established 
Fisher not occupied by fifth year granted a leave of absence from by Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elk­
·;.. 
and law students. Notre Dame during the spring hart, Ind. 




" 
discover the dif{':dzC: '65 Chevrolets 



. 
Park out front; at least for a while, and let the neigh-scats, center console and carpeting; the smooth and . bors enjoy that sleek Impala SuperSport styling. easy Chevrolet ride; and Chevrolet power, starting with · · After all, you have everything else to yourself: the our famous 140-hp Turbo-Thrift 230 Six. This '65 
o The Paulist Father is a modern
luxurious Super Sport interior with its cushy bucket Chevrolet's a home improvement if you ever saw one. 

man in every sense of the word.. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men; He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using' contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Catholic Amer· icans. He is amissionary-to his own , people -t~ American people. He utilizes modern techniques 'to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to 
-:.help further his dedicated goal. 
• If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in 

CORVAIR Everything's you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of _your· life as a priest? The
new. but the idea 

-Paulist fathe rs have developed an· The idea still is, make Corvair aptitude test for the modern man the sportiest low-priced. car interested .in devotirig his life to this side of the Atlantic. So God. This can be a vital instrument 
. look: suave new continental. to help you make the most impor-· 
styling, even better handling, tant decision of yolirHfe. Write for · same· rear~engined' traction. it today.Driving's fun. Try it. 
NATIONAL vocATIONs ·omECTOR . · 


· Drive something. really neip-discduer the difference at your Chevrolet dealer's · 
PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET
Chevrowt• Cl,evelk ~ Chevgff.:Corvair• Cor1Jette s4lew, 
NEW YORK, tLY. 10019 

The looks you can see. The luxury that's a Malibu Super Sport you can imagine: bucket seats, full 





THE VOICE, Notre Dame University February 10, 1965 
" I Page 4 
Dr. Stewart Sees Notre Dame As Strong Choice-for Med School 
;. 
i 
·, 
1·,. 
j 
i 
! 
l: . 
l 
i 
I· 
i 
j l 
1_ ­
Dr. ·Thomas Stewart, who re­presented Notre Dame in legis­lative hearings on new medical school proposals threeweeks ago iri Indianapolis, believes the state. legislature will have to approp­riate money for a second medi­cal school site by 1967 when it meets for its next session. "And I presume the overwhelming e­Vidence would indicate thiswould be in North Central Indiana'' at Notre Dame, Dr. Stewart says. Dr. Stewart, head of the math­ematics department here andex­ecutive secretary of the Notre Dame Committee on the r<.'led School, disagrees with a Chicago consulting firm's report on the timing of the school,The Chicago finn of Booz-Allen has recom­mended to the state that a se­cond med school not be built for ten years and in the interim In­
The Notre Dame professor . points to the fact that Indiana U­niversity's entering medical school class is already the larg­est in the· country, "The idea of expanding Indiana is a very radi­cal move in medical education," Dr. Stewart feels. 
"lt would be more prudent to follow the examples of those states who have faced these pro­blems in the pa st, The appropri­ation has to be made in 1%7 for the establishm~nt of a second site," and Dr. Stewart believes if the local community mobilizes sufficiently to demonstrate this ar:ea' s qualifications, the med school will be located here. ' 
He explains that the alternative of locating the school here was not available at the time the Chi­cago firm made its report, since Notre Dame had not yet forn1U­lated its proposals. 

diana University's present medi-. Dr, Stewart expectsthattheonlycal school fac~litie s be expanded. action the Indiana legislature will 
-Artist Adler Here In April 
Arts' Artists-in-Residence-in­Museums Program. With the sup­port of a Ford Foundation grant, distinguished American painters, sculptors and print-makers are spending one month in residence at museums and galleries throughout the country. 
Father Lauck and Notre Dame curator' John Howett describe Adler as an expressionist who works both in abstraction and realist forms. He, paints in both oils and watercolors and also is known for his collage work. He wn(not teach while here, but is expected to lecture, conduct sem­intlrs and demonstrations and through public engagements and 
· the communications media speak ·on the meaning of art. Adler, who is 66 and a native of New York City, has been teach­
. ing drawing ··and· painting since 1935 and has ·been.a·member of NYU's Washington Square Col­lege ofArts and Sciences faculty since 1948, · · 
Notre Dame's seventh annual Finance Forum began last night with a banquet at the MorrisInn. 
The forum is an annual series of ­conferences, sponsored by· the 

·Finance Cltib, in which major. speakers from all areas of fi­nance discuss their fields. Some of the various problems and the opportunities connected with the study and manipulation offinance are also examined. All interested students are invited and will re­ceive cancelled cuts for classes missed during the forum, 
Today's discussions began at 

10:30 this morning and continued · until 5 this afternoon. · 
One of the interesting events of the forum began at a panel held this morning. The members of the · panel were all relatively young business leaders, menwho at their young age have become presidents· of various corpora­tions. These modem captains of industry discussed the problems • 
faced by men in their often-not­enviable positions. 
Tomorrow's sessions _will be conducted at 10:30 am and 1:30 pm. "Electric Utility Stocks" will be the topic for the morning session, featuring Mr. Charles Tatham, manager of the Public Utilities Department of Bache and 
·· Company. Mr. ~arry F. Sullivan, Vice President ofthe Chase Man­hattan Bank, will speak at the afternoon session on "The Com­mercial Banker," 
Samuel M. Adler, celebrated painter and art educator, will be an artist,;,fa-residence at Notre Dame during April, it was an­nounced by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the art depart­ment and director of the Univer-­sity gallery. 
Alder, professor of fine arts at New York University, will come to Notre Dame underthe auspices of the American Federation of take at its current sessionwill be form a committee to study the problem and report back in 1967. He emphatically denied charges made by Ball State Teacher's College inthe hearingslastmonth that Indiana University is•• spon­soring'' the Notre Dame propo­sals to locate the medical school here. 
In the course of the hearings, Ball State's representative, Dr, Thomas Moore, remarked that he hoped "Indiana University would support its sister institu­tion, Ball State, as vigorously as they supported Notre Dame.'' Ball State had before the legis­lature an appropriation bill to e-Stablish a med school tnere 1111­mediately, but no action has been taken on the meas\lre. 

Also at the hearings, contro­ver:sy arose over the Booz-Allen consulting firm's recommenda­tions for Indiana University ~d­ical School expansion, The Ball State rpresentative objected to any further enlargements of the in North Central Indiana, The committee first contacted Notre Dame after deciding the Univer­sity would be of advantage in at­tracting the proposed med school to locate here, Notre Dame's ad­ministration then responded with their proposals. . . · 
Medical school students would not be Notre Dame students, nor 
class there, which already is l00_1s_it..certain_e.YenJ:ha.tl~Loti::epame Freshman Med. students a year. students would have unlimited A more detailed report of the access to enter the med school. Booz-Allen firm was expected since most are out-of-state re­last week, but has not yet been sidents, Dr, Stewart emphasizes released. that the med school, if located 
The Notre Dame med school at Notre Dame, will belongtoand proposal ori~nated with the be run and staffed by the state. Committee on Higher Education 



Meeting Bu!:!~!he~~.!.~~:~!,~.~.~~rnmSou<hBend 
The attempt to "legalize" hitch­hiking is. almost dead, according to Paul Knipper, chairman of the committee for improving re­lations between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
Police Chief IrvinHampton, who met with thecommitteelastWed­nesday, said that it was possible that a light will be installed op­posite Frankie's. 
The only other step he foresees is an investigation of all cases of hitch-hiking violations report­ed to Father Collins, to see if they were flagrant. According to state law, it is legal for a person to solicit rides if he does not stand past the curb. 
When Chief Hampton was ask­ed how he interpreted the hitch-

Chuck Trevasan, senior in arthictecture, was th~ winner of the com• petition to design the Presidental Medallion, with this entry. The oppositie side will bear the university seal. 
Medallion Board 
Accepting Nominations 
made significant contributions to
·The Selection boardfor the Pre­sident's Medallion award is ac­the university community, • The cepting letters of nominationthis winners will be selected by a week until Saturday, February13, board · representing the major Letters, which may be writtenby campus organizations. the student himself orby afriend, This year's winners will be an­should include such information nounced around March 3. as· major, scholasticaverage, and 
Dept. Head To Leave 
Prof, Alvan S. Ryan, head of the department of English of N9tre Dame, has been appointed Chair­man of Humanities and professor of English at the University of_ Massachusetts, ·,·; Boston, ef­fective Septembef-l, accordingto · 
an announcement by President John W. Lederle, . Ryan has served as a member of the Notre Dame faculty from 1943 to 1946 and continously since 1951, He became head of the English department in 1962, A specialist in 19th century English literature and literary 
Tickets to the Washington Day Exercises February 18 will be distributed next Tuesday and Wednesday in both dining halls at the evening meal, and in. the Huddle, Seniors must show their ID cards for tickets to reserved seats, 

J/a;/ce f?llou{/}cteJ, 
PROFITABLE BUSINESS• SATISFYING HOBBY 
FREE CATALOG & SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
Complete easy instruc-­

...-......-., 
tions for making sterling silver. and. gold filled· ro• saries plus rosaries to be used by the Missions. send for yours today. No obligation, 
LEWIS & COMPANY· 500 3rd Ave., Troy, N. Y.
. 


Cr11/t1mt11 in Optiu
someone, but not knowing alltheir activities, should send in a no­
to judge within the spirit of the Mayor Allen, Father Collins and law -that he would charge with the committee_ will be sent'to all violation only students making hotel and motel ownerswithinthe nuisances of themselves. He next week, explaining the need could not speak for the rest of for facilities and the new re­the force, though, Chief Hampton strictions placed by student gov-said that he informed the other ernment on groups using them. officers of the law and told them Responses to a questionnaire to act as they saw fit, included with the letters should A subsequent article inthe South provide a file of sizes and rates Bend Tribune is intended to ac-· of. available rooms .and special 
quaint the people of South Bend with the law, and explain the rea­sons for hitch-hiking: scarcity of cars, expense of public trans­portation, etc. 
The emphasis of the commit-tee's work is now switching to the motel and hotel owners ofthe area in attempt to find more fa.;. cilities for off-campus parties. 
regulations. 
A third area of the commit-· tee's work this year has been arranging meals in the home of South Bend residents for stu-· dents left on campus over vaca­tion periods. Forty students took · advantage .of this over semester break. The next time this will occur is over Easter. 
extracurricular actiVities. A ;;::::;;;;::::;;;;;::;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;.;..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;::;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.=..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.i;I critical evaluation of the char­acter and achievements of the student should also be included. 

o,Jloll.S( of Vision'"'·
Students wishing to nominate 
mination regardless; the nominee wm be asked in such cases to submit a more · detailed letter, , The ~dallionawaro, establish­ed as a substitute for Who's Who, is to be given annually to the 20­25 seniors who best examplify t~ Notre Dame ideal ofcharact-
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
, . · NOW IN SOUTH BEND 
!

fHE SHERLANDBLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1468 
·· · 
(fl(Jlousc o.' '/ Vision ]Jtf._ 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -Chicago 
•er and leadership, and who have l.;::;:::=;;::::;;;;:::::;;;;::;::;;;:-.::;;;;;:::;::;:;;:::::::;;::::;::;;;:::::::;;;;;;:::::;:::;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;;;;:::;::::;;;=5 
criticism. Prof, Ryan is the, edi­
tor of The Brownson Reader and a contributorto Spirit of a Free Society, ---~ 
He is a 1934 graduate of the U­niversity of Massachusetts, and holds a master's degree from Harvard and a doctratefroml946 Harvard and a doctoratefrom the State University of Iowa. He taught at Massachusetts from 1946 to 1949, 
Dr, Ryan was a visiting fellow at Princeton University under a faculty fellowship from the Fund for the Advancement ofEducation during 1955-56.; He was a senior Fulbright lecturer at the Univer­sity of the Saarland, Saarbrucken, Germany, in 1961-62, 
Cyr's Barber Shop 
MICHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 

100-102. South Main Street Opposite Court House South Bend, Imllana 

Be n good dancer and go.In conftdence! 

Come to Arthur Murray's and te·am the :secret of smooth graceful <lancing. You;II be amaz::<l an<l thrille<l how quickly am! easily you. will be dant­ing with carefree confidence. In no time at all you will be the envy <( your frien<ls. But act nowt 
ARTHUR MURRAY 
120 E. Wayne Phone CE 2.3339· 
I 
; ! 

--· 
..,,., 
,. 
\~ 
'> --~ 
Caberfaers THE VOICE, Notre Dame University 
"'I Page 5 
February 10, 1965
C 




BREAK IT IN THE SNOW
I~ • ~z,o~i
... 
J!:" 
.., ~ 
' 

I ' 
't 

.f. 

,,Ir._• 

l ..· _t;~·
;:•. 1/i;> ~-,>:;
'"'y,;·~ . .·· .. ! . ' r 
·.·.· ...i·.•. ·1_,··•::P/_,l

f . ~ .:i:. {. ,.:?~ ,
,,f-' ,:. ( ,-c,
~
!l.>i"· . . ~­



L: ~. t,..,.,.:.
.::, 

...." -·~ .,,.,.,.,
; . ! 


/ 
... 
.. 
Ski Town... 

ln a concerted. attempt to give some literal meaning to the _semester "break" vacation many ND and SMC students point skis to the 
North • -destination, . Caber/ae, f.!ichigan. Perhaps it•s a mere "bump.. compared to what fussy Rocky Mountain men /ind in their !vlarl­boro country, but it's close to home and the ac­tion there is representative. Representative of what? Well perhaps the quick cameras of the 
·brothers Ford can Jill in there. 

Pay and apprentice Mike, _his younger brother, ·teamed up for this special Voice photo-feature at Caber/ae last week• 
Attraction of the Irish. 

A Skier's "mind-body" problem. Chasing a fast shadow. .. 

.. 
. --I 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame University February 10, 1965Page 6 · 


TheOlogy Major Approved ,. 
The Academic Council of the U­The.theology and philcsophyre­for lay professors of theology, niversity of Notre Dame, in a quirements of the College of Arts as well as positions newly open­meeting Monday, approved the and Letters willbe altered slight­ed to laymen within the Church proposal for a major sequence ly to accommodate this new pro-· itself. Money aside, a student in theology submitted by Rev, Al­gram. Four semesters of each possibly could choose a theology bert L. Schlitzer, C. S. C., head of will still be required, but will be major as '-'his own special way the department of theology. distributed evenly, one each rcr of maturing as a man/' 
As proposed, the major se­semester, instead of the present With the acquisition of a teacher quence would include: in the fall ·two semesters of philosophy in competent in th~ field of patri­term of the junior year, courses the sophomore year· and two se­stics (the study of the Fathers in Redemptive Incarnation, Bib­mesters of theology in the junior of the Church), the department 
lical Theology: the Gospels and year. now is in a position to offer a Church History: Select Subjects. Tl_, purpose of this change is truly complete major sequence In the spring term, majorswould to better acquaint the student in theology. Concerning the fac­C. 
take-Theology 52-BiblicalTheo-with theology by his sophomore ulty, Fr, Schlitzer states that he logy: the Epistles, Theology. 62-year in order that he may have a will insist on having lay theology St, Thomas: the Summa Theo!. sound basis to judge whether or teachers on the staff as n nec­and -Philosophy -Metaphysics. not he should opt for a theology essary requirement for a strong Seminar _32 -Elective. major. lay theology, which he hopes will 
Senior year fall courses will be Fr. Schlitzer predicts that the flourish in "a university en­Christian Life, Patristics and theology dept. will have programs vironment, an ecumenical atmos-•, Theol. of the Word of God, with leading to both M.A. and Ph,D, phere and an integrated lay-re­... History of Theology and Con­degrees in theology by the fall ligious faculty.'' temporary Theology : in the of 1%6, spring. Fr. Schlitzer feels that-there 
Also required during these two will be no problem finding stu..: years will be two semesters of dents interested in a theology seminar, one of theology and six major. _There is a crying need electives. 
Fr. Schlitznr stated thai: stu­IVillinm Rushton, like the rest of his·friends of the British Com­. dents majoring in theology will pany of ".That \Vas The Week That Was," has /ittle respect for any• be strongly encouraged to take 
1965 Mardi Gras 
thing. They will present·a show in the Stepan Center Monday at 7:15. 
history and literature courses as their electives, to provide a rich, well-rounded_ education. 
Two Speakers Named For Lottery. -Returns Union-Management Conjerence 'Week That Was' 
Two prominent men in the field and a 30-;ear veteran in the Ia­12-5 p.~. Mardi Gras Office Tomorrow of labor-management relations-bor movement~ Under President Here Monday 
_ have been named as speakersfor Johnson, as well as the late Pre­the 13th annual Union-Manage-sident Kennedy, Burdon has been "That Was The . Week That ­ment Conference to be held on a member of the President's Was", the BBC television show 
_ campus Feb. 26. Committee on Equal Employment noted for the audacity of its style -.Raffle Books niay he Opportunity; -He also served on _and the acerbity of -its satire,
Malcolm L. Denire, vice pre-Labor Advisory Committeeofthe 
will be performed by the origi­
sident for labor relations of the Office. of Civil and Defense Mo­
nal British cast on Mondayeven­turned in any day 
Ford Motor Company since 1959, bilization; 
ing, February 15, at 7:15 p.m. in . ' . will address . the more than 600 . The conference is sponsored by 
the Stepan Center, General ad­

industrial executives and union 
Notre Dame's economics depart-mission .is $1.50, with students from 12 to 5 in the 
-officials expected .for the con.:. · ment in cooperation with the No-
and -faculty members being· ad­
ference. tre Dame -Law School, -unions, 
mitted for $I.OD. Tickets may be
The second speaker will be and management. Rev. Mark J. ­
purchased at any time in the So­Mardi Gras office. 
George Burdon, president of the Fitzgerald, c.S.C., professor of 
cial Commission office andatthe
United Rubber Workers Union economics, is director. 


'. 
\, 
>I­
j 
! 
! 
! 
ii 
n~ 
u 
Ii11 · i'
!I I\:fl 
"i
)i; 
l
I 
I 
J 
II 
!l'. 
u,. t\j 
If 
n 
I• 
r,·· 
i 
i 
11 
i! ,; ,\\_ 
door. _ 

Your guide to highest quality _and dependability in forei~ language dic~ionaries 
.-BARNES &N_O~LE 


" 

LANGENSCHEIDT 

LILLIPUT DICTIONARIES 
Remarkable match-box size volumes contain more than 10,000 entries, with special phrase sections. Approxi-· mat!!lY 640 exceptionally readable pages in each vol­ume,. durable flexible binding.
. ­
English to 11 languages ~ Dcmish, D1.1tch, French, 
German, Modern Greek, Italian, Latin, Port1.1guese, -Russian, Spanish, Swedish; 11 languages to English . plus Webster all-English. _ Only 50¢ _each 
.UNIVERSAL DICTIONARIES 
Ideal for foreign travel, school, and office. Each dic­tionary contains two parts: En;lish to Forcign-lan• guage and Foreign-language to English, with special 
I
sections. Over 30,000 entries, approximately 400 pages each. Light and handy to carry (3 x 4¼). Remarkably legible, sturdily bound, flexible. Includes FRENCH, , 

I '·. . -,_ . . 
GERMAN, ITALIAN; PORTUGUESE, RUSSIAN, SPANISH, 

, produced anddirected by
I
TURKISH,-and WEBSTER (all English), Only 951 each 


POCKEr ·nICTIONARIES 


Easy-to'.;1se ( 4 X 6) .· Hard Covers .. English~German ~ German-English in one complete oolume. 75,000 en­


NBC 






AVID FROSTeec

tries. $3.75. Pocket English-German (Part I) $2.25, • Pocket Germcin-En_..._.,h_ (Part II) ·$2.25 .• Pocket Hobrew-Englbh $2.25 • .Po<ket Greek-English $2.25 • 
AND 
' .
Pocket latin•English ·$2.25 • 
.. 
.NE_D -SHERRIN · 

-noiv available at ~ 
"Februar/1~ i~ the N.D, Stepan Center''. _Tickets on sale N~w in S~cial Commission Office 

The No_tre Dame Bookshop Weds 10. Thurs 11 Mon. 15 'icket Sales in Di11 ing Hall . For TW3 · 
...
... 


~ 




·February 10, 1965 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University Page 7 

j 
Le Petite Mardi Gras

Peace Corps Jt1'"7eek Starts This Monday 
For those interested in finding Ing overseas. Ten percent oflast
The week of Febuary 14-20 has can Weekend, arranged bytheln­The Social Commission is spon­
year's graduating class took the 

out if they are qualified to lead
been designated •as Peace Corps ternational Commission, beginn­
placement tests, with about 25 soring Le Petite Mardi Gras Feb. -?,!

the life of a Peace Corps vol­
Week at the Universit:y. During ing April 3. 
26 in LaForturie Student C.enter,

unteer, placement tests will be of them completing their train­
this time several men from the Accion, financed entirely by a semi-fonnal . dance for those . '.:
ing and going overseas,

Peace Corps as weU as a few given daily. While the Peace Venezuelan money or American 
who didn't get bids to the l\1ardiCorps prefers graduatesfortheir Accion, a project similar to but

Notre Dame volunteers who have money invested in Venezuela, in­Gras Ball. returned from their overseas as­program, anyone interestedisin­smaller than the Peace Corps, volves 40 Americans and SO Ven­.Tickets, for $3.98, are on sale
will receive a publicity drive on

signments will make their head­vited to come in. ezuelans in community projects, tonight in the dining halls and in
campus in the next few months. 

quarters in the International Throughout the week slides and strictly in Venezuela. The group the Social Commission office room (Room IB) of La Fortune a film on the corps will be shown Terry Holcomb, who is establish­started with strictly American 
from noon to 5:00 p,m. daily, ex­
ing a regional office in Chicago,

Student Center. in the Student Center Amphithe­workers,· but gradually hopes to cept Sunday. 
came here this week to arrange

Highlight of the week will be the atre, build up an entirely native force; 
the drive through Jed Kee, In­

presentation of the "Patriot of Notre Dame graduates have al­ternational Commissioner. then it will move on to some otl'.er ~--------_;_­the Year" award to Sargent ready established a tradition with 
Holcomb will return around A-· country. I PUBLIC C:A,FETERIA IShriver, former Director of the their service in the Corps, Ap­

pril 1 to give a talk and will re­· I South 010mg Hall I .

Corps, by the Class of 1965 on proximately 75 men from Notre Febuary 18. Dame have served or are serv­
main here for the Latin Ameri-
If SODA FOUNTAIN f 
~Ion. 1hrn Fri. ti 7:30 A.M.-9:30 P.\!.

Senate Committee Seeks Calendar Improvement I 
_.....,._._,..,_....,_,....-..i.....,.....,..,_...... 
Tom MulVihill and his special 

', student senate committee have \_,..-, ..-· reached the half-way mark in a ~ plan they believe will effect per­
manent improvements in Notre 

,"') 
Dame's academic calendar. Mul­

C 
vihill, a Lyons Hall junior, hopes 

~) to ·incorporate any changes into next year's schedule but believes it would be "a minor miracle on. our part to get any changes for this semester." 
: The senate committee has al-· ready contacted · many of the 


deans, heads of departments and faculty members, encouraging them to write letters of complaint to the administration about the· pr:esent schedule. Committee Chairman MulVihill knows of 35 indiViduals-in the College of Arts and Letters alone who have re­gistered their discontent through letters, as well as letters by en­tire departments. 

The committee earlierthisweek distributed a questionnaire to a representative sample of student body and faculty. A group of pro­fessors in the College of Business Administration, who have done similar work for national con­cerns, drew up the questionnaire, which is expected to be 99% ac­curate. This accuracy will be guaranteed by making sure that all questionnaires distributed are returned. 
MulVihill expects to have the 

/ Four Frosh Hurt In Accident 
Four Cavanaugh Hall Freshmen on their way to pick up dates for the SMC prom were run down by a Corvette in the St. !'v!ary'sdrive about 9 p.m. Friday night. 
Continued from page 1 

cational site," in which Notre · Dame • and St. Mary's would be, except for name, indistinguis­able. Conceivably even . Indiana University Extension in South Bend, if it continues to expand, could be brought into the com­
.:r . plex. Despite this projected close co­operation, however, Fr. Sheedy. ·emphasized that Notre Dame would never go coed, and that St. Mary's would never admit males. In fact, this has been one of the major holdups in _the attempts to integrate classes. Fr. Sheedyin­dicated that he was afraid many students would interpret the co­operative classes as a first step toward a coeducational Univer­sity.
• Another related · obstacle has been ·the understandable .desire of St. Mary's to retain its auton­omy, and to avoid being swallow­ed up. by Notre Dame. Negotia­tions between the schools have apparently been highly sensitive, despite the enthusiastic support of both Rev. Theodore M.. Hes­burgh, C.S.C., and Sr. Marie Renata, C.S,C., SMC president, 
Perhaps this sensitiVity to ad­

. vedm publicity explains the se­crecy in which the entire situa­tion has been shroude~ Only a week before finals, Dean Sheedy insisted that there would be no 
'I, co-op classes until next year.
j: Even after the decision was made 
i:o have them, there was no pub­

·;.,..A. 
licity, no list of the approved

' 
.:i"' ·' ' 
courses was available, and very 

· few students were even.aware of the possibility of taking such courses. ·Now, a week into the semester, 
·the shroud remains. The Office . of Academic Affairs claims to · have rio record of the girls' even · being here; and Dean Sheedy said 
.. 
he wasn't sure of what courses ·-rt--: · they were taking, either. Across 'l' . the road, Sr. Alma, c.s.. Aca­
demic Dean of St, Mary's, re-·. 

,-: 
,... . fused to discuss the matter with 'an interviewer. . 
Taken to Memorial Hospital 

were Dennis O'Fallon and Paul 
Davis. O'Fallon was reported in 
serious condition with a basal 
skull fracture, while DaVis, with 
head cuts and a broken leg, was 
reported in satisfactory condi­
tion. 
Two other students were taken 

to St,JosephHos-pital. Ron Rusko, 
who suffered a broken elbow, is 
in faircondition, andJamesChap, 
man, with a broken leg, isinfair­
ly good condition. 
.The car was driven by another 

Notre Dame student, Tom Hag­·erty. 
All 1966 graduates who want to be in theSeniorSectionofthel966 DOl'v1E, and have· not made an ap­pointment to have their pictures taken must do so either tomor­row, or Friday in room 2-C of the Student Center. 

complete results of the survey in about a week. The committee will then proceed to contact mem_. bers of the Academic Council, informing them of the results of the questionnaire. 
In the questionnaire students and faculty are asked to rate three different calendar alternatives. One is to begin school on Sept­ember!, and end the semester by December 20. The second semes­ter would begin around January 6 or 7, and end by May 27, Other alternatives are the present set­up andlastyear'scalendar. which involved beginning school after Labor Day, ending the first se­
mester on January 20, and be­
ginning the second semesterFeb-.-------------.... 
ruary 1, 
The survey also includes ques­
tions·determining whether two or one hour exams are more bene­ficial. The committee is not con­cerned over no extended Easter holidays, since midsemester va­. cation and Easter will coincide for the next six years, accord­
ing to the present set:..up. 
The senate committee has been 
working since a couple of weeks 
before Christmas on academic 
calendar changes, MulVihill be­
lieves the committee will suc­
ceed in its effort because of the 
thoroughness with which it has 
approached the problem in con­
trast to preVious efforts. 


Phone Referendum Tomorrow 
The referendum on telephones may be installed there, proVided in campus rooms will be held to­.the total vote exceeds the 750 . morrow in the halls, minumum, Paul Walker, chairman of the Cost of the phones is $24 per 
Student Welfare Committee, said semester per room; ie, $12aper­that at least 750 phones must be son for a double, $8 a person for involved for the refenmdum to a triple. 
be successful, However, ii a The referendum will be handled single hall has a particularly by the Blue Circle. heavy affirmative vote, phones 
Folk Festival Accepts Entries 

· Applications are now being ac­
An afternoon session will fea­ture 20 to 25 acts selected fromcepted from folk singers and the applications received. The
groups for the 1965 Collegiate 
Folk Festival, Joe Lemon, gen­finalists will compete in an even­ing session,
eral chairman, has announced. The festival will be held in 
Requests for applications and Stepan Center on_' March 6, as a information should be sent to 
CFF, 306 Alumni, Notre Dame,fllllction of the Social Com­
Ind.
mission. 
j 

Free Refreshments Plus_ Favorsf 
Semi•:formal Dance at LaFortune Fri. Feb. 26, 1965 9:00-1:00 
We can help celebrate the coming of Shrove Tuesday, in Indiana's French Gh,euo, Notre Dame DuLac, just like thousands will do in Louisiana's ;French·_ Quarters. 
Tickets:_-Starting Tues. ,, Feb. 9 at the Social Commission Office from noon 'til 5. 
/ 

Just think only $3.98 for all the Fun and Excitement of the Real Fr~nch Holid~y 
forca·mpus knights 


aaarmd ~ys_ 
Wear Date(!· Post-Grad slacks by


-h.im 

You're probably too tall to fit into a suit of armor but just right for the long and lean look of these pants. Post­Grads trim_you up and taper you down. They're noble and mobile and absolutely authen­tic.. Neat belt loops. Narrow­bu t-not-too-n arrow cuffs. Shaped on-seam pockets . You can look better than Gal­ahad for a pittance _since·they cost but $6.98 a pair in 55% Acrilan* Acrylic, 45% Rayon.Buy 'em arid voicks ! · 

•Chemstrand Registered. Trademarks ••. meaning that these slacks are uncondi• 
tionally guaranteed for one full year's nor­
mal wear. · · 


··--­
.. ..
-

. Page 8 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University 
February 10, 1965 
Hockey Team. 

CLARK PACES IRISH 
The campus got its first taste

Nets 1st Win 

The most surpnsmg perfor­(3), MILE; Bob Walsh (2), Harold 
On Jan. 30 the Notre Dame of track this past weekend as the mance came from sophomore Al Spiro (3), 60-DASH; Nick Eddy Hockey Chili walloped hapless Irish track team took on Purdue Wicklifield. The Notre Dame hur­(4), 880; Conroy (l)-1:55,l, Keith Lewis College 9-1 to record their and Indiana. Some 1500 fans jam­dler's second in the lows andwin Small (3) Larry Dirnberger (4), first victory of the season. Seven ned the Notre Dame fieldhouse to in the high made it easy for Not­SHOT PUf; Tom Regner (3), players figured in the scoring, watch the fast rising spectator re Dame fans toforgetthe grace­POLE VAULT; Bill Peper (4), including three defensemen. The sport. ful Pe ate Whitehouse, who gradu­2-MILE; Bill Clark (1), Mike Irish scored early in the game ated last year. Widdifield's7.5in Coffey (2), Bob Walsh (3), Dick
Clark's p:?rformance in the two 

and then put themselves out of the high and 7.0 in the lows (in Reamer (4), HIGH JUMP; Pete
mile run was by far the most 

reach in the second period when first heat) both approach White­Hanratty (2), Keith Bradley (3),
brilliant of the afternoon. Al­

they tallied three to make it 5-1. houses best time, Mike Chaput (4). The final score
though he only began to con­Last Saturday, hoping to even centrate on the two mile event Other individual performances was Notre Dame 51, Indiana 42 
their season record, the squad and Purdue 36, 
this year, he rounded the field­tur ,ed in included: met Lake Forest in Chicago. De­house track 16 times in 9:02,7. il'i:l·
spite a continuous rain, turning 
Clark's time is all the more re­
the outdoor rink into a large pud­
markable. in that he was unchal­
dle, the teams elected to play. 
lenged. Encouraged by the shout­
Lake Forest scored once in the 
ing of the partician crowd, Notre 
first two periods and appeared in 
Dame runners finished two,
command until the Irish notched 
three, four behind Clark. The two quick goals midway through 
clean sweep in two-mile clinched the final session. The score re-· the meet for the Irish.
Bill Clark breaks the tape to mained tied until the last couple capture the two-mile run at last Ed Dean, who was also hurt by Saturday's meet in the Field·
of minutes, when the Foresters the lack of competition, turned 
house.
banged in two more to take the in a credible 4:12.4 in the mile.,
(Voice photo by Bili McGuire)
contest 4-2. Dave McNamee seemed to be getting as high as ever in the pole vault, However, misses in

Basketball 
the lower heights forced him to settle for a third after matching the winning height of 14 ft.
About Next Year 
I 

Notre Dame, loser of its last three starts and four out of its last Al \Viddifield clears another hurdle en route to winning bis heat ·in five, hopes to bounce back into the win column this week as it tackles 
the low hurdles by a 5-yard margin, He was clocked in 7:00 for the 
beat. (Voice photo by Bill McGuire)
Wrestlers

Butler in Indianapolis onMondaynightandOhioUniversity here in the Field House on Saturda)' afternoon. The Irish, who stood 9 _ 6 at Notre Dame as an independent, The second half ofN otre Dame's
w·orks toward one goal, a berth 



Swimmers Gain Split
wrestling sea son got off to a good mester, suffered the first oftheir the end of the season. Because start lastThursdayevening, when The Notre Dame Swimmers split a pair of weekend home meets, three straight losses, atthehands of this, Dee elected to try some they defeated Wabash College 22­the completion of the first se-in the NCAA championships at downing Kent State 54-44 on Friday and then losing to Western Mich­
of Illinois, in Chicago Stadium on new blood with the apparent 10. Approximately one thousand igan 65-30 on Saturday. Notre Dame waswithoutthe services of CaP­

poor showing of both Sahm and 
students were in the Fieldhouse 

Saturday night Nov.; 30th. 101-87. Jesewitz. Tempers /laired and tain Rory Culhane, who underwent an operation shortly after semes­Notre Dame was right in the disciplinary action ensued. With ter break, and will be out for the remainder of the season.
to witness the team, led by Dick ball game for 30 minutes of the the exoneration of both players, Arrington, capture a quick lead In defeating Kent State, the I-swimmers in an exciting 50 yard

encounter behind the hot hands Dee hoped that a 9-0 showing of 13-0 with two falls and a de­rish built up a commanding 32-11 freestyle race,
might win a berth. \Vitb our loss 
cision in the first three of eight

of Jay Miller and Ron Reed. last Saturday though, these .lead by winning the first five e-Notre Dame's winning streak 
With ten minutes remaining, No-hopes were completely shattered. matches. 

vents -the 400 yd. medley re-came to a halt the. next day as ter Dame stormed back from a 9 Now with only next season to The students were then treated· lay and four individual events, Western Michigan swamped the
point halftime deficit and closed look for, and the lack of a Spring with some spirited competition,

training, we should expect to The individual winners were Irish 65-30. The winners estab­
as the micklle weight classes

the gap to one . point at 64-63, see less of those giving poor freestylers Jack Stoltz and Ted lished four new pool records and 
However, the deadly accurate Ill-performanc.es, and more of the came on the mat. The visitors Egan: Individual MedleyistRock-three new meet records.

ini, who played like and looked likes of Monohan; Hardy and were able to boost their score ie Garcia; and diver Tim Ken-Pacing w. Michigan's attack·like one of the nation' sbest, were Bornhorst who will return next with ten points.while NotreDame 

year. nett. were freestylers Ron Pohlonski'
not to be denied and in the next picked up only four, which was Egan, acting as Irish captain, and Rick Barringer, both double two minutes ran off nine straight With Walt Sahm back in the line­enough, however, to give Notre narrowly edged the two Ke_nt winners, and Ron Klasson, whopoints to_ make the score 74-64, up after a three game layoff, the Dame the meet. 

won the 200 I, M Pohlonski setIrish traveled to Detroit on Sat­With the match victory already records in winning both the 200 
fhe Irish never got much closer. urday for a retun match with the decided in favor of Notre Dame, 

AF Jolt 

and 500 yard freestyle. Barring­Against Wisconsin, Notre Dame Titans whom they had· licked by the fervor of the students, how­er won the 50 and the 100 free­
played-a so-so game against a 21 points in 'the 4th game of the ever, did not recede, as the final 

Fencers 

style, setting a new record inthe
fired up Wisconsin team, and as season 107-86, Detroit remem­match of the evening. was an­latter with a time of 50.1,
a result the aggressive Badgers bered this however, and gottheir nounced: Arrington vs. anyone. Notre Dame's varsity fencing Notre Dame managed only twobecame the first team this sea­revenge to the tune .of 77 -74, Arrington delighted all those pre­team ran their season's record individual winners: diver Ken­son to walk out of the NotreDame knotting Notre Dame's record at sent with his seemingly playful to 7"'.'l this past weekend with nett, and sophomore Bob HussonFieldhouse with a victory. 9 -9 for the season. tactics against his opponent. victories over Iowa (17-10) and in the breastroke,Indiana (20-7) and a loss to an The loss to Western Michiganexcellent Air Force team (7-20), dropped the Irish below the 500Foil again led all weapons in mark at 2-3, 

... 
_,.• 
.. 
total victories for the weekend,

r---Long Distance Runners7 
but sabre was close behind in the 
running for individual weapon 

This year's track team maybreak records and win perhaps the finest group of distance runners inNo­performance. Sabreman Mike individual honors but stillface major difficulties due tre Dame's history, headed by, senior Bill Clark. Dwyer and foil man Bill Ferrence to a lack of depth in team competition. With accom-Clark had a fantastic cross country season during were the bright spots of an other­plished veterans inthemiddleandlongdistancesto-which he defeated boththel%4N.C..A.A. 5000meter 
wise disappointing weekend in gether with a record holder in the pole vault return-and cross count·ry titleholders, He has shown _even which Notre Dame lost to the team ing,. the season success will hinge on the ability of further improvement within the past month, accord­it most wanted to beat, Although sophomores to fill vacancies in the sprints, hurdles irig to Coach Wilson, and'is a definite threat to add the Irish overpowered Indiana and and field events. the N,C,.A.A. three mile crown to his glories, Back-Iowa, this did not seem to make 
Bill Boyle, this year'sca):tain, returns after a jun-ing him up will be Mike Coffey, who turned in an ex-. up for a mediocre performance ior year in which he broke Coach Alex Wilson's cellent 9:08 for two miles last year, and Bill Welch. against Air Force at Colorado school record in the 440 with the time of 46,5 sec-Similar quality is evident in the mile where Ed 
Springs, onds and missed a trip to the Olympics by a scant Dean returns along with Bob Walsh, a 4:12,9 miler One of the best moments of the .3 seconds, When Boyle recovers from a recent as a ·freshman, and fast improving Harold Spiro. weekend was Bill Ference' s case of hepatitis, and if senior Jim Lynch reaches Dean will be gunning for a sub four minture mile seemingly record performance the potential he showed last year be:ore injuries this year after having done a3:46,8forl500 meters against Indiana, lt took him only , hindered him, the quarter-mile should be incapable last summer, the equivalent of a 4:04 mile, The one minute to win a bout by a score of 5-0, However, Ferrence
hands. school record in the mile 15:07, Besides their indi-Sophs Lead Hurdles vi.dual events these runners will comprise possibly was handled easily at Air Force, ­
losing a 5-0 bout, the nation's fine stfour mile and distance medley re­Notre Dame's hopes in the sprintsand hurdles cen­The Irish face a determind De­lays.
ter around sophomores Nick Eddy and Al Widdifield. 
troit team this coming weekendEddy, who was recently clocked in 6.4 seconds for Field Events Weak in Chicago, as well as Waynethe 60 yd. dash, might get some helpfrom Don Ku­Prospects in the field events are somewhat more State, which lost to the Irish bybichek, and Johnny Martin in the short sprints, Widd­bleak. Dave McNamee, who will double in the broad only 14-13 last year, and the Un­ifield holds. the ·freshman records in both the high jump and pole vault, where he holds the Notre Dame iversity of Chicago, On Februaryand low hurdles. Widdifield who has to make up for outdoor record at 14'-9", istheonlyprovenperfor­20, Michigan State and Ohio State his lack of height _with extra speed, is a definite mer returning from last year. Further help in the will poke their way into the Ste­threat to· eclipse. departed Pete Whitehouse' s school pole vault could come from sophomore Bill Peper pan Center for what appears to be

record in the lows: who is aiming at 14 ft. this year. 
an excellent weekend of fencing.
Pat Conroy along with sophomore Keith Small give 

Last year the team relied heavily on place points the squad a pair of half milers capable of breaking 
in the field events anda good deal of the trouble will AF Iowa-Ind.

1:50 this year. Conroy, after a junior year plagued be in compensating for the losses through gradua­
with injuries, is ready to resume where he left off tion in this area. Some who will be counted on are · Foil 3-6 7-2 8-1in his sophomore year, when he was clocked in 1:50, Keith Bradley, Pete Hanratty, and Dick Sauer who Epee 1-8 5-4 4-5are grouped at just above six feet in the high jump; 
Distances Strength Sabre 3-6 5-4 8-l
and Tom Regner in the shot put, although he lacks Total 7-20 17-10

:Juties in the longer distances will be. handled by form at the present. · 20-7 

,,..
.., 
"'.. 
N 
M 
N 
ci 
:c 
:,


Fashion -"' ~ 
z·


Leaders 0 "' < 
... 
0

for ... ... ~ 
:,
...


High School "' 
z· 
... 
C) 
z
and. .,,:i: 0 
~


College men < 
~ 
"' 
~ 


"'. 
.,..,: 

Fot~ 1\TDnrt:Ll_;_thL"ll -ngwasr P:rhlisbiaa Fltrbsct Jediasa 




