.Exam Schedule Change ·Possible For This-Semester 
Student Body President John Gearen and Tom Mulvihill, chair­man of the Senate Academic Cal­endar Committee, met with Rev, Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., last Sunday. They presented re­sults of a questionnaire concern­ing final exams and the Aca­demic Calendar, alongwithaplan to expand exams to two hours this semester, 
The questionnaire showed that 
, 85% of the faculty and slightly over three-fourths of . the stu­dents favored two hour final ex­ams. Father Hesburghexpressed no objections to the plan, but specified that Rev. Chester A, Soleta, C.S.C., Vice-President for Academic Affairs, would have 
·to approve of the plan before any further steps could be endeav­. orecl. . 
The questionnaire was sub­
mitted by the committee to a re­presemative and statistical_lyac­curate sample of the student 
body, following the semester break. Because of the methods used, they felt confident that the results were of a high degree of 
accuracy, 
Through. the questionnaire, the Senate Committee was also able to learn that both the student body (68%) and the faculty (84%) favored a revision in the calen­dar bringing the first semester to an end before Christmas, This would give the faculty ample time 
· in which to correctexaminations, as approXimately three-fourths indicated that they had insuffi­cient time with the present sys­tem. But with the examination question now .pending, the com­mittee does not expect that the question of a general revisio~ of the academic calendarto be taken up by the Academic Council un­til a later date. 
Presently, Father Soleta is al-· so. heading a committee conduct-
Continued on page 4 
1f1111E 

Volume 3, Number 13 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Wednesday, February 24; 1965 
Senate Defeats Quotas, Approves Trial StaymHall 
by Dan Murray 

The Student Senate passed the experimental stay hall proposal but rejected a quota system Mon­day night. Only four senators voted against the experimental stay hall plan while all but six members of the. senate voted to reject class quota forupperclass halls. · Nick Sordi, chairman of the committee which formulated the two proposals, expressed satis­faction with the passage of the major part of his committee's plan. and Student Body President John Gearen remarked after the meeting that "the quota system is not essential." He predicted its eventual acceptance after stay hall has been tried. 
Both· men expressed the belief that an important part of the stay hall committee's work still remains to be accomplished -­in Gearen' s words, "to encour­age ~ople to go into the exper­imental halls." 
Sordi plans for his committe to talk to organizations on campus and to students in hall meetings to encourage them.to reside in the three stay halls next year. He expects the committee to em­phasize personal. contact in gett­ing students to move into the halls. 
Rooms in the stay halls will be selected ~ after midsemester break but· before regular room selection, according to Sordi, The procedure has not been settled yet; there. are some dif-­ferences of opinion whether room selction should be basedonaver­
age or class. But the present 
occupants of the stay_ halls will 
definitely have the first option. 
Results of questionnaires pass­
ed out by the individual haU 
senators showed ten .halls fa­
voring the experimental stay hall 
proposal, six halls against, and 
one a .virtual tie, Students in only 
six halls favored the quota sys­
tem .with eleven halls opposed. 
In ·questionnaire returns the 
halls favoring the experimental 
stay hall system were Walsh, 
Pangborn, Lyons, Zahm, St. 
Edward's and all five of the 

freshman halls, Only Pangborn 
Hall joined the five freshman 
halls to favor the quotas, 
In the balloting Monday, the 
senators from Dillon, Fisher, 
Morrissey and Sorin vot !d a­
gainst the experimental stay !iall 
proposal while Nick Sordi and 
the five freshemn senators sup-­

ported the quota system. . 
· 



be .rolling tonigbt zn tbe Stepan Center as the Mardi Gras weekend gets under way. (Voice photo by Bill McGuire) 
. New Orleans Goes North:
. . . ~. . .. 

Mardi Gras Begins Today 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. the world's hall) from 9:00 p,m. to I:00·a,rn. ing Monday night. Thev will also stiffest competitor for the fame · Friday, . Carnival activities ·in . be at 10:30 p,m. 
of New Orleans opens ai: the Stepan get a night's su~pension. Stepan Center, Notre Dame's Saturday begins with .a light­· Mardi Gras, with its four nights headed approach by featuring a · of gambling, dancesandconcerfs, Champagne Brunch at Robert's · is on. S11pper Club from 10:45 to 1:30. 
Hidden in the revelry, which is This will befollowed by the Mardi traditionally billed. as the third Gras Concert at the MorrisCiVic largest college weekend in the: Auditorium from2:00to4:30p,m. country, is its main purpose of The Serendipity Singers team up earning $25,000 for charity•. · with the Oscar Peterson Trio · Holy Cross Missions, the main~ for the concert, 1 tenance of the Student Center by Except for·a 6:00 to 7 :00 p,m. Student · Government and a gen-break for supper, the Carnival· era! university fund for scholar-will start immediately after the ship are primary among thefiE! . concert and run along until projects. · · midnight, . . 
Carnival doors will remain open Prime teasers forthe Saturday until midnight Wednesday as .· night session will be the. draw-clubs go after the "loose money'•\ ,ings for' the Grand Prize Ford 
·of the opening sessions and as · Thunderbird, a·. Ford Mustang 
. students give tough trials towhat •for a student .winner and one of they hope are "inexperienced'' · two trips for two to Bermuda ·dealers. :fimrsday will see are-. during the Spring break. The . peat performance of the Wednes-drawing 'will be .at· 10:30 P· m. day program. Second drawings, for another ·· The Mardi Gras Ball swirls in-. Mustang and· the .other trip to 

Science, Engineering Schools _._~lq_"f! $!_~. 7 Million Expansi(!~---·· · 
Sunday, a CommunionBreakfast calms the weekend's pace from 
10:00 to ll:00 a.m. in the North Dining hall. Tlds will .follow a 
9:00 a.m. Mardi Gras Mass in Sacred Heart. 
Last night for the lost dollar comes· next .Monday when the Stepan Center Carnival stretches out between 7:30 p.m. and mid-. night. . 
The Camival will have approxi­mately 32 booths, each sponsored by a different campus organi­zation. Gambling will include : 

·everything from black jack to wheels of fortune. Luck teamed . up with bogus dollars worth 10 cents apiece will be used for the 
· gambling. Also· providing its· own enter­
; tainment, _the Carnival Will sprout nightly ten minute stints hy fe­male can.;.can dancers, and a 
rock and roll band. 
By Earl Guertin 

Plans for a $12,700,000 develop-­ment and building program for the Colleges of Science and En­gineering. which could begin in 1965 and end in 1970, were .an­nounced last ·· week by Dr, Frederick Rossini, Dean of the College od Science. 
The plans center around a pro-· posal submitted in December to the National Science Foundation, under the National Science De­velopment Program. The propos­al, which is now. under consider-: ation, asks for $5,500,000,inNSF funds over the next five years, Notre Dame is willing to. add $7,200,000 from other sourcesto the NSF grant. · 
Dr. Rossini said that the de­velopment program "will be im­plernented in any case,'' even if . the proposal to the NSF is not approved. 
A new seven story life science · 

building to ·contain the biology department and Lobund Labora­tory facilities will be erected just south of the·Computer Cen­ter at a cost of $4,000,000. 
South of this, a new engineering building. containing chemical en­gineering, electdcal engineer­ing, engineering science and met-. allurgy departments, will be con:­structed for$3,300,000. Plans al­so include renovation of the pre­sent Engineering Hall· and. the Chemical Engineering wing of Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Among other changes,· Geology will move into. the space va­cated by chemical engineering and ·he located near the·· other sciences for the first time, Civ­il · and mechanical engineering pus, 
The present plans_are the work of the University Commission for Planning and Development for Science and Engineering. Dr, 

_ Rossini is chairman ofthisgroup which has been.in existence for two years. 
The National Science Develop-­ment Program, initiated in March. 1964, attempts to pro:.. vide massive support for a lim­ited number of universities in the "very good" category to help them become "excellent," 
Recipient universities are ex­

.pected to work for improvement · . by means of their own resources,· · and not to rely on the NSF grants• Notre Dame's plan hopes not merely to carry on· the present work, but to increase the quality 
. and quantity of science and en­gineering here. · · 
Dr, Rossini stated that one im-: mediate measure of a univer­sity is the number of PH.D.' s awarded. 
"Our average of 37 peryearfor the last three years in science and engineering ·wm be tripled in the next five years.'' 
The plans call for the addition of some members of the faculty to continuing programs in sci­ence and engineering, but also will provide additions tofaculty 

for new ''interdisciplinary" graduate studies, 
These include chemical physics, chemical· and physical life sci­ence, engineering and life sci­ence, space science, communi­· cation and information, nuclear science .in engineering, environ­'mental health engineering, earth science engineering . and . solid 
. state and materials science, 
will· expand in the present En-. Not forgetting . the · · under-~ 
gine ring building while aero-graduates, Dr. Rossini said, "We nautical engineering will occupy propose to continue im~roving the heat and power building now .. undergraduate curricular andin­. used by the mechanical engineer-proving. the general atmosphere 
· ing department. of undergraduate education, in­
Entertainment at the Mardi Gras 

Dr, Rossini stated thatthispro-eluding opportunities to partici­
.to the North. Ballroom (dining, Bermuda,· will come the follow~ ..·Bail wiH include the Peter 
. ject provides for a consolidation pate in researchworkbothduring
Palmer Orchestra and· Voices. 

Wednesday, February 24, 1965

A Confidential Cookbook 
We aren't overly impressed with. Harvard, never were, but they have one "confidential" little item that's a dandy. It's called the · Confidential Guide to Courses, and is pub­lished by the Harvard Crimson, in other words by students. · 
, What it .,iims to do, indeed, what it has done with varying degrees of success for 39 years, is offer a systematic and sincere student e­valuation of courses, teachers and the qual­ity of the teaching being given. 
At base this works to the advantage of the student; who can · then select his courses with a better idea of what to expect than the all but useless course description booklet like those at Notre Dame give him. More im­portant, however, is that it gives the student, the customer of the university's education process, a chance to evaluate his courses. And it just may be that the ..Confy Guide" plays a decided role in promoting better qual­ity teaching, as can its·. counterpart at Cal., Berkeley, "The Slate". . 
They help to fill the yawning and obvious 
_gap in the modern university where the dis­heartening standard .of "Publish or Perish" reigns supreme, where the best qualified judges of a teacher, the students he teaches, are being ignored. They allow student evalu­ation to play its proper and needed role. 
The Guide isn't confidential, of course, it's "sold and read right out in the open, and the only people who purchase it surreptitiously are section men cager to see what last year's students thought of them." 
The 5p page magazine is based on the an­swers to a questionnaire which is given to students in the undergraduate levels. It asks the questions that concerned stude.nts are in­terested in, and that teachers and adminis­trators should be interested in. 
"Were the lectures valuable to your under­standing of the course?" . Followed by ans"'.ers to be circled. 
"How much overlap was there between read­ing and lectures?" 
"How was the lecturer's delivery?" 
"How was the lecturer's organization~" 
"How many papers we're there? How long? How many hours to do? Average grade? Were they fairly marked with grader's comments? Were they valuable to your understanding of the course? 


A Booster Shot. 
As journalists and publication staff men we salute the Journalism Symposi~m sponsored by the Scho­lastic and the Dome over the past weekend. It was a needed shot in the .arm for Notre Dame's writers, e•ditors and those in related areas. . 
This is the kind of stimulation that our ·c~mpus publishing world can stand and so badly. ne.eds. We honestly hope that other such programs will fol­. _low on an annual basis, maturing enough to include all the campus support it deserves, garnering every bit of el).thusiasm for good. journalism that already 
exists. 

. , .. . ' 
LETTERS· TO THE El)ITOR 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is being written with 
the assumption that the complete 
new Stay Hall system will. have 
been passed by theStudentSenate . on Monday night. · · 
. gated to the Senate rather than ,being put to a_ student referen­· dum. It is certainly a rriore im­portant decision that the recent . telephone question, whichwasput up for referendum. It is i:ruethat that the senators are circulating a questionafre, but they are not 
"Which books · were most useful for under­standing the course? Which were least use-· ful?" 
"How many exams were there? Hour? Quiz­zes?. Final? How weH did they cover the course material? Were they fairly marked?" · 
"Generally, are you satisfied with what you got out of the course? Do you consider it a valuable educational experience? Simply a means of passing a requirement? Or a disap­
pointment?'' "Please give your evaluation of the course with comments." The above are all samples of questions that. are asked. Student editors; who realize full well the dangers of misuse, then compile, evaluate and print the answers in the Guide:­The result is a valuable tool in course judgement for whoever wants to use it stu­dent, teacher or administrator. ·· ' Notre Dame has the beginning of such a 
magazine with the course description booklet published this semester. But ·this is only: a beginning, not to take on the strength and the 
importance it deserves until it also takes on definite, visible and concientious student /evaluation. 
-
-

I 
r 

I have.rio,quarrel with the stay. hall experiment using three pilot halls. It seems to me that this method of deterrning the value of the stay·.hall system is·a fine 
. idea. But the attached quota sys­tem negates the . experimental value of this plan. 
This quota proposal,·. in effect, puts stay hall into every.· hall, Since the three stay halls have · been proposed explicitly. as an· experiment,-the · other halls should not be included until the · results ofthis initial e~periment are 'in. This will keep the stay . hall system on an experimental basis as it .is claimed ·to be, 
It has been my experience that members of one class stick to­gether. This year there· is an approximately equal number of juniors and seniors living on my floor. But· the interplay between juniors and seniors seems to be · limited to saying hello when we meet in the corridor, I don't.see why it would be any different under the new system. 
An· . upperclassman, as such, should, I think, have certain priv­ileges, The one and only real privilege which he has atpresent is the right to choose the hall, and perhaps a room a trifle larger than 8x14, in which he will reside . for his last, and supposedlybest, year at Notre Dame, The quota system proposed seriously im­
-pinges upon this privilege, 
-Finally, and perhaps most im.;.: . portant, I wonder why this very important decisionhasbeendele-­
bound to_ vote according to its mandate •. Our senator, at least, . has indicated that he is totally in 
.favor of the new system, and is · unlikely to. be swayed by the re­sults of this questionaire. 
In a case such as -this, our "re­presentative'' government would · not be truly representative. I think the men of Notre Dame de­serve the opportunity to de ciclc for themselves the merits of the proposals. I call for the Stay Hall proposal to be put up as a refereundum, 
Guy.Williams 228 Walsh 
Dear Sirs: 
Most of the critical absurdities, as well as the two or three to­tally baffling sentences,. in Mr. Earl Guertin' s review ofThe Caretaker are of little conse­quence. What was far more dis­turbing was. that the reviewer gravely called into. question his own . qualifications to intelligent­ly view a modern play (or most · older ones, .for that matter,) That is, Mr, Guertin seemed to bear a great many ready~made and totally threadbare notions (about life, art, the "natural", . theatre, insanity, etc,)--a whole dusty bundle of presuppo­sitions and formulae--into the theatre, expecting a "success­ful" play to meet them; finding neither a ''spark of hope;' nor a neat "solution" in what he sees; Mr. Guertin Is led to such mis­conceptions as these: · 
"9. THE UNIVERSITY WILL NOT TOLERATE GAMBLING IN ANY FORM ON THE CAMPUS." 
GUERTIN:. "ThusPinter'smess-isfaction. His is an uninformed age is that the tramp,.,cannot some a possibility," (Both Pint-. and illegitimate. stance; his is provide a solution tothe brothers' er quotations· are from Ever­not responsible criticism. problem, Unless we · expect a green Review, no. 33, Aug.-Sept, miracle, we will foresee..,." 1964,) , · 


PINTER: "A play is not an es-· In the encl, Mr. Guertin's pallid say, nor should a playwright indictment of the production rest-. J, Stra~:-~ under any exhortation damage the ed upon its failure to fit his consistency of his characters by . own spurious criteria--to suit injecting a remedy orapology for·; his interpretation and/orhis sat-
their actions into the last act, simply because we have been brought up to expect, rain or sunshine, the last "resolution." 
To supply an explicit moral tag to an evolving and compulsive drarnatk image seems to be facile, impertinent and di shone st. Where this takes place it is not theatre but acrossword puz:zle, The audience holds the· paper. The play fills in the blanks, Everyone's happy,'' GUERTIN: "Throughout the play there is a serious inability to communicate between too char­acters," PINTER: "We have· heai:dmany times that tired, grimy phrase: "Failure of communication".... and this phrase has been fixed to my work quite consistently, I believe the-contrary. I think that we communicate . only too well, in our silence, in what is unsaid, and that what takes place is a continual evasion, desperate rear guard attempts to keep our­selves to ourselves,. Communi­cation is too alarming. To enter into someone else's life is too frightening. To disclose toothers 
TBE 


OF-NOTBEDAME· 
Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni­ve~sity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; Post Office Box 1, · ' Board of Review•••••• ,Rev, Daniel O'Neil· C.S.C. ·John Gearsen 
EDITO -' •
R. ••••••••••••••• , •••••••••BARRY JOHANSON Associate Editor:~ • , • • ••••••• , , •••••• , •••Grover Nix lll . News Editor• · J hn B kl 
. •• • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • • • • • ,, • • • _• • ,, ,, • • ,, 0 UC ey
Assistant News Editor: ....... ,.•• , , , ••• , •• , , ••Bob Lumpkins 
News Staff: •••••• , •• , .Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Dan Murray, 
Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, John Sibley,·Dick Veit, Steve Feldhaus, 
Ray Foery, Buck McFadden, RickSchleef, Bill Siska, Pat Strickler 
Jim Elliot . · . ' · · ·· ' Sports Editors:•••• , •• , • , .Lou Bartoshesky, and Bob Campbell Sports Staff:••• , ••••••.•l'vlike Read, Dan Ferguson, Mike Granger, . Norm Laurendeau, George Kruszewski. Bill Brown, Jere Locke Business Manager:, •••••• , • , •• , •• • , • , , ••John O'Hanlon · Advertising. Manager:. , • , •••• , •••••••• ·• ·• • ; • , ,Ken Socha Advertising Salesmen:, ••••••• , • , , •••••• ~ ,John Guzauskas Layout Editor: • •• -.' •••••••••••,.••••••••••• • Dennis Kem Assistant Layout Editor:.. • , , •• , • , , .Edd Baker, Steve Vogel Layout Staff:, • • • • •••• , ••••• , • , .• , •• , •••••Dave Griffin Proofreader:••• , • ,· • , • ; •••••••• , •••.•••••John Radosevich 

..._---:----------------------------------m:::;;:.i::::::.;..,-------~::::.i:DI":~ 
Wednesday, February 24, 1965 UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Page 3 
500 Expected to Attend International Forum 
Notre Dame will sponsor its Annual International Forum this year on Latin America on April 2 to 4, Jed Kee, International Commissioner, expects over 500 students from the 450 schools invited, Kee· and Ramon Murphy, chairman of CILA, are the co­chairmen of the Forum. 
The two reasons for the forum, according to Kee, are to let other schools know that Notre Dame is interested in international acti­vities, and to awaken and further this interest on campus, 
The. program of the conference will c;:onsist of panel discussions on "The Church and Social Pro­gress in Latin America," "Po­litical Change in Latin America" and "Socio-Economic Problems of Latin America" there will al­so be .ii-series of student dis­cussions. 
S~akers · will include Rev, Felipe MacGregor, S,J., .Presi­

Profs to·Open Homes · For· Student ·Gabfests 
A new phases in student-fac­ulty relations is being introduced by the Student Government Aca­demic Commission in the form of a series of student-faculty discussions "gabfests". 
The.format of these ''gabfests'' will be strictly informal, with Notre Dame professors andtheir 
· wives hosting groups of students and other professors in their homes. The groups Will be com­prised of students from . St. Mary's and Notre Dame, and Will be limited to approximately twenty members. 
, The object of this program lsto establish greatercontact between the students and faculty outside the classroom, The "gabfests", 
204 Lyons Hall, 


Folk Festival Winrters Return 
-The Collegiate Folk Festival will take place on Saturday, March 6, in the Stepan Center, There will be two sessions, a preliminary contest from 1:00 to 
5:00 and finals from 7:00 to 11:00. Both male and female soJoists, 
J. 
· trios and quartets have entered the competition. 
Several winners from last year's competion are returning 
with informal formats and with 
no predetermined topic, will 
hopefully range over the gamut 
of conversational topics, thus 
enabling these two groups to see 
just what the other thinks about 
issues pertinent to both. 

Beghming in February, -a' full schedule of these "gabfests" is slated to get under way, They will be held primarily on Satur­day evenings and will include professors representing each of the schools of the University, Anyone interested in signing up for a ''gabfest" is asked to send a postcard listing his name, ad­dress, and major, to: Jim Blonka, 
· 
Contestants fromEastemMich­igan, Notre Dame, University of Detroit; and Michigan State have already entered, Additional entries are expected from Mar­quette, University of Chicago, and Pitt. 
Frank Fried of Triangel Pro-ductions,-_Chicago, will be one of the .judges, Others have.not been dent ·of the Catholic University of Peru: Dr. Charles Cole, form­er Ambassador to Chile, and Dr. George Harrar, President of the Rockefeller Foundation. · 
Notre Dame faculty· members participating in the discussions wm be Dr, William D' Antonio; Dr, Frederick Pike: Dr, John .Kennedy, Chairman of the Latin America Area Studies Program, and Dr. Samuel Shapiro, 
Rev, Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
Francis A, O'Neill, Jr. will be one of three principal speakers 
at the thirteenth annual Union-· Management Conference Friday. .O'Neill, a member of. the Na­tional Mediation Board, will dis-· cuss ''New Trends in Transpor­tation· Bargaining"' at the··open:: 
announced, .

this year, Included in this group--~--------·--•-·-~-----­~:em~:°~:n~;ni;c°::~%~~~~~~DON'T 
MAKE A l\fOLEHIL1 .;i:ni~::, ~~~\~~~:· ~~:f~~; 0 UT. 0 F, .A MOUNTAIN 
Hungry i; and· Patsy Johnston, __.._,____________________ from Milwaukee. · · · . . • · . · 
----...~---·---· . 
C.S.C.,' will deliver the keynote · address: and Dr. George Shuster, 
assistant to the President, will speak at the formal closing. Kee says that he hopes to have a spokesman from Washington to speak on U.S. Foreign policy in Latin America, 
Other organizationscooperating in sponsoring the forum are the Pan-American Club and the Na­tional Student A ssociat"ion. Fi­nancing comes from the admln­
ing session of the conference in 
Washington Hall at 10 a,in. Th.is will be the secondUnion-Manage­ment Conference speech for 0' Neill, who previously addressed the conference in1954, 
istration and from the Ohio-ln-:­
diana region of NSA, of which 
Al Valkenaar of Notre Dame is 
chairman, 
The forum will be the occasion for regional conventions of two student groups, The NSA region and the midwestern region of CIASP, the council of all groups sending student volunteers to ·work in Latin America, will both 
meet in conjunction With the con­
ference, · 
\2.3 
Cologne,Alt_er Shave, Talc, Deodorant, Soap Bar, Gilt Sets • Caryl Richard;, Ne,v York 
River Park Pharmacy .J,luff's Pharmacy 2232 Mishawaka Avenue 1349 Portage,. 
'Ott.J/.iJJISt ofVision lllf. Cr4/tsm,11 In Optifl 
\ 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
NOW IN SOUTH BEND rHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1468 
r11,Jlo11se of Vision lHt. 


Three ROTC Units 
Begin Co-operation 
The three ROTC units at Notre Dame are beginning a phase __ of closerco-operation. Two positive results will be an exchange of military· science professors and the initiation of siluting · cadet officers between the services. In the past, all ROTC cadets have · been required to salute of­ficers of all three services, but now this courtesy will be ex­tended down to the cadet offi­
cers•. 
However, this practice wiil not be emphasized in the main quad 
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Wednesday, February i4, 1965 
..J 
Patriot Shriver Warns Indifference Is Treason 
"To be lukewarm at this time of national and international crisis is more than a mistake; it is to join the enemy, Itistrea­son," warned R, Sargent Shriver, at the Washington Day Exercises last Thursday. At that ceremony, in Stepan Center, Senior Class President Larry Beshel present­ed the Patriotism Award toShri­
ver, "The true patriot," said Shri­ver, "knows that to be anAmeri­can today is more than to be a 
member of the middle class," It . is to be "big enough to accept. the pace of civilizationinanother 
. between classes, because of the .. country ••• big enough to admit number of ROTC students crowd-. that we don't know everything, .that we can make mistakes, and 
ing the walks at that time,_ that we can learn from others," And the experts from whom we learn are the poor, here and in other countries, Shriver attri­
buted the great success of the Peace Corps, of which he is di­rector, to the fact that volun­teers are willing to listen and learn the ways of _the people, without condemnation and with­out attempting to force upon them a solution to their problems, 
The same methods, of programs in ·which the poor help them-· selves, will be the backbone of the national anti-poverty cam­paign. And it will also require volunteers to help the poor on the· same basis of cooperation and understanding. 
In· his presentation of the Pa­triotism Award, Beshel said to Shriver "You have rousedthe too often slumbrous imagination and courage of the young men and w_omen of our generation; you have masterfully kindled our ca­pacity for sacrifice and self­giving.'' 






Tutor Program Nets 60%Grade Increase 
student teachers helpingchildren
By Ray Foery 

from 16 South Bend area schools. According to the South Bend Comments from South Bend Community School Corporation, teachers have all been encour­60%. of the grades of all students aging. most of them noting a rise · tutored by the Neighborhood in students' class participation, a Study Help Program showed an better motivation toward study, increase, Only 8% went down, and an improved academic atti­
while 32% remained the same,. ~de. J M L e of Notre 
These resultswere revealed at an r, , ames . • . e 
; 
evaluation meeting held lastSun-"Dame s education depart~ent has 
1 

day for all Notre Dame and St, stres~d that . the tutonng p:o­
Mary's tutors.·. gram 1s a part of the Johnsoruan 
The tutoring program, begun War on Poverty, in the. very real· last year as a small group pro-sense. that a well-educated com­ject by Blue Circle member Bill munity is a well-endowed com­O'Brien. now. concerns over 200 ~ty. The importance of the P:O-. 
·New ·Prog~ams Pro.vide Coffee, Meals with Profs 
i· 
i 
. 
A three.:..pronged · attack on the 

~problems of studerit:.faculty out: of-class relationships is now in full swing. · Committees headed by ·Terry Daily and Rev, David 
· Burrell, C..S,C. are superheading the programs. 
The first •permits students and faculty to lunch together in the _dining halls, . 
Another utilizes·· the trustee's . room of the South Dining hall for · lunche·s betweenfacultymembers 
and_ clubs -or other groups of . students. . c The tl-Jrd is a daily coffee hour 
in the faculty lounge of the li­brary from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. for students and faculty, . 
Cam~s clubs, organizations, or even inforinal student groups are now being invited to · use the trustee's room of the South Din­ing Hall ·for luncheons with se­

. · lected professors, 
Reservations must be made for a certain day of'. the week and submitted to . the Blue Circle -Committee for confirmation, After obtaining. lunches. from ·t_heir ~spective lines;-_students 

r~succ7iirr;r~7.

I  ·  South Dining Hall  I  
I· I  SODA FOUNTAIN ·Mon. thru Fri.. •  I f  
I  7:30 A.~1.-9:30 r.,1.  t  

and faculty would proceed up to 
the·trustee's: room;· . 
A meeting to outline the proce­dure _is scheduled for tonight in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall be­tween _committee representives 
and campus organizations, 
Also, . students will be able to have professors lunch with them in the student dining halls, The professor or instructorneedonly go through the line with the stu­dents, Other universities conduct similiar practices ,vith success­ful results, Daily says, although success in these cases depends on ''student initiative," 
. The student-faculty relationship has been a subject of major con­cern for several years. Past at­tempts have often failed. The defunct Student-Faculty. Lecture Series and coffee hours are a­mong such short lived attempts, 



Jl!aloo !7/ouwl(/!,J 
PROFITABLE BUSINESS• SATISFYING HOBBY 
FREE CATALOG 
& SPECIAL 
INTRODUCTORY 

OFFER 
Complete easy instruc-­tions for making sterling silver and gold filled ro­saries plus rosaries to be used by the Missions. Send for yours today. No 
obligation. 
LEWIS &· COMPANY 500 3rd Ave., Troy, N. Y. 
in South · Bend of the work of the 

gram has been realized to the 
tutors and of a deepening appre­

point that federal aid has been 
ciation of the program.· ·

asked, . and is expected, to help 
Both speakers mentioned, and

finance some of the expenses that O'Brien reiterated, that the tu­
have ariseri as the project has grown.· toring program now stands at a point where . with more work and 
An improvement in the Notre 
Dame -South Bend public re­devotion, vast results can be. lations was· described by Mr. realized. "It is a chalkTige," says O'Brien, ''that can be met
Luther Ballangei:-, South Bend 
only by continued efforts by Not­

school teacher and former Na­
re Dame men and their counter­

tional Science Fellow. Ballanger 
parts across the road." ·

told of an increased awareness 

Imperso~al Pronouns Present~ ·spectacular· 
The ..~~moniou~ lncorpora-play has been called one· of the 
tion of the University of Notre most important contributions to modern theatre, · • ,.! 
Dame into the College of 'Pata-This ceremonyhasbeenthe sub­
. 
physicsll will take place to-J"ect of much controversy, and . 
. morrow at 4:15 p,m. in.the Law Auditorium. An official spokes-pickets. from St, Mary's Pru-man for the ·Impersonal Pro-. dence Society. -. . noun Productions, the grouppre-Exam Changeparing this event, defines 'pata­physics as the study of the epip-Continued from page 1 henomenon, the quality induced ing an o.verall study of exami­. upon the phenomenon. It ·deal_s nations. The committee is view­with the exception, rather than ing other universities and has a­the general. bout two. more years of'work a-The program will begin with two head before any conclusions can short lectures, by Dr, Daniel be made regarding the role ex­McDonald and Dr, John Meagher, ams should play in the education both of the English department, . of the students in a· university illustrating 'pataphysics andgiv-such as Notre Dame. ing an idea of the work and 
All 1966 graduates who want to

structure . of the . college itself. 
be in the SeniorSection of the 1%6

The program will conclude with 
DOME, and have not. yet made an .

the play "Ubu Roi," by Alfred 
appointment must do ~otomorrow,

Jarry, with a cast of 20. This 
Could co·rning be the company... :you're I.coking.for? 
Why not_ take 1/2 hour and find out? 

Corning has challenging careers available for many types of Technical, Business and Liberal Arts graduates. Check with your placement office for specific opportunities in your field. 
You still have time toe register for your•interview. 


Arrington Tops At Wheaton One Up and One Down 
to survive 2:10 before succumb­
Dick, Arrington, Notre Dame's captain and obviously one of the ing. 

Purdue 

two or three best college heavy­Only one other Irish wrestler Bowling Green 
advanced beyond the first round.
weight wrestlers in the country, It was a different story on Saturday afternoon.
A petite, brunette Bowling Green co-ed somehow
He was 167-pounder Jim Bowers
was named the outstandingwres­however, as the Irish defeated Purdue 56-48, This
misread a blackboard warning, stating that the
who decisioned Mike Papendic of
tler at the two day Wheaton Col­was Notre Dame's first Victory over a Big Ten
ladies dressing room would be turned over to the
Carthage in the first round, but
lege Invitational Wrestling Meet team since 1962. The outstanding performances of
Notre Dame swimmers. When the first arrivers to
lost a decision to Lew Brann of
last Friday and Saturday. N.D,' s second men in many events decided the
the locker room saw her, they asked her to stay,
McMurry in his second match.
Arrington, whose record fs now meet, It was an overall advantage in team depth
She uttered a few words of embarrassement and
In last Wednesday's dual meet
14-0 for the year, simply over­that gave the Irish a victory,
quickly departed, Many of the Irish tankers should
at Bowling Green it was much
whelmed his five opponents-he The meet was as good as over after the 200 yd.
have taken her cue and also have left, as Bowling
the same story. The N.D, team
needed only a total time of 8:18 backstroke event, Before this race the Irish had
Green, swamped the Irish 55 1/2 -391/2 last Tues­
was defeated 33-5, but Arrington
to make all five pins, He pinned held a slim 35-30 lead, but 1-2 finishes by Terry
day,
pinned his man in 7:28. No other 
. wrestlers from Augustana Col­Ryan and John Frey put them comfortably ahead,
Two record-breakingperformances were turned in
Irish wrestlers won their
lege, Lake · Forest College, 43-31. Bob Husson, soph_omore breastroker, won
by Junior Jack Stoltz in the 200 and 500 freestyle
matches against Bowling Green.
Carthage College, McMurry Col­events. In winning the 200 free, Stoltz broke the his specialty, the 200 ycL breaststroke, and set a
The NCAA championships will
lege and Wheaton, Arrington had 

Bowling Green pool record with a time of 1:55,7. varsity record in doing it. His time was 2:33.6.
be held in Laramie Wyoming
two ''tough" matches: inthe first 

He established a new varsity record in winning the Other Irish firsts came in the 200 yd. individual
March 25-27, and Arrington has
· round he needed 2:48 to pin ti.is 
500 race, His time was 5:20.9, nearly 5 seconds medley .:. Rocke Garcia; diving-Paul Devlin: 400 yd.
got to be one of the favorites in
man and in the final match 

faster than, Rory Culhane' s old record. medley relay-Frey, Husson. Tim Kristl and John 
the heavyweight division. Our · 
Wheaton's top heavyweight "ex­

Stoltz commented on how great it felt to own a Blum. Paul Drucker turned in his best time of the 
money is on him.
tended" Arrington and m:m"°"'" Notre Dame record, 11But," he continued, "it year as he churned the 100 free in :51, 9. It was only . 
would have been more significant had we been good enough for a second place, however,
Skiers Earn NCAA Bid The most impressive swimmer of the day was
victorious.'' The only other individual winner was driver Tim Purdue's Harry Wickens. He set a new meet re-,The Notre Dame Ski Club fin­Reynolds finished second in the 
Kennett. After Kennett's victory, NotreDame trail­cord of 2:12,2 in· the 200 yd.·. butterfly and came 
ished. third in the NCAA mid­

downhill and third in the cross­ed by just two points, 22-20. Bowling Green swept back three events later to set a new, Rockne pool
west regional ski championships 

country, Geoff Bray, Bill Shep-the ,next three events to take a commanding 46-23 record in the 500 freestyle• 
last Swiday and Monday in Du­

. ard, Dennis O'Niell, and Bill lead. · · Notre Dame's record noi.•1 stands at 3-5, withfour 
luth, Minnesota. The Irish and 

Dionne each scored high for the , Notre Dame ended on a high note by winning the meets remaining. They close out their home sched­
the two teains that finished a­

Irish in the four events. Thirty­400 yard freestyle relay. The Irish quartet of Paul ule this week-end, meeting Miami of Ohio on Fri­
head of them; Michigan Tech and 

seven skiers representing eight Drunker, Ted Egan, Chris Siegler, and Rocky Gar­day night at 7:30 p.m. and Wayne State on Saturday
the University of Minnesota, all 

schools participated. · cia came within a tenth of a second of eclipsing the · at 2:00.
earned bids to the NCAA finals 

meet record for this relay.
to be heldinYakima, Washington, on the last week-end in March. N,D.' s captain Steve Walther won the "skimeister award" as the skier who performed best in all four events. Riff Rutter won the downhill race and Larry
~.....,..,_,.~.._.~~~,,_.._,.,

ICyr's Barber Shop IIMICHIANA'S LEADING I 
BARBER SHOP. . I 


,,

IOpposite Court House i Here's what the new 2-vear 
-u 
·~··t

t,South Bend,,. Indiana ·J ;,~ 
-,;·~
L~,......···••o--•..,._.,-~.........._. . . . 





-Army ROIC-orogram--means-to-vou '-~~ 



A new Reserve Officer Training Corps program permits selected college sophomores to be commissioned as Army Second Lieuten­ants in two years. You can do this by : 
1. 
Completing a special 6-week summer camp between your sonh­omore and junior years. . · · ·~ 

2. 
Completing the 2-year Advanced Course at any school offering the ROTC progr~m. · · · 


What are the benefits of Army ROTC training? 
o Management training for su~cess in civilian or military life. 
• $4? per month pay while attending the Advanced Course, plus umforms; pay and paid travel for summer camps. 
· • Eligibility for ~re~ flight instruction at selected schools lead­ing to a private pilot's license. 
• 
A commission as an Army officer, with all of its accompanying benefits, including higher income, greater opportunity for ad­vancement and officer status. 

• 
The personal satisfaction that comes from knowing you're trained to assume leadership responsibilities. 


These benefits will put you a step ahead of other college graduates and will pay off for the rest of your life. You owe it to yourself to inve~tigate these new opportunities. · · , . 
For complete information, see the Professor of Military Science at your school, or send the co~pon below. 




'Tough Loss' -Dee 
By Mike Granger 
''It was a tough game to lose, the boys played a fine game." So said . Johnny Dee after Duke walloped the Irish, 101-88, There is no doubt that this was a great effort by the Irish, perhaps their best road performance of the sea­son. They shot well, passed well, and rebounded well, The only trouble was that they were play­ing a great team in Duke, Duke is a fast team and possess three great, young shooters, They are very · quick switching from of­fense to defense and back again; it is very difficult to work an effective fast_ break on them. 
The Duke squad did not fear the Irish team, but, according to · :coach Vic Bubas, they respected the height and the strength of the Irish. 
In closing, Babus said that Not­re Dame was the best team out­side the conference that histeam has faced -except Cazzie Russel and Co. from the University of 

· All-America Bill Ferrence stands ready to score a hit. (Voice photo Michigan. ·· 
Devils Halt Irish 
By Quentin .MacManus gone in the half, 
It was close as they would get 
by BillMcGuire) ·. . . . 
..,_..,....._._..t4111191.......,~.._._,..~,....,--.._..~~-.-~.._..-, 

Fiincers Stop Big 10 Rivals I See the 5th Annual I 
The Irish fencing team took two 
more meets this weekend to run 
their season's record 12-:-1, In a 
three-way meet held at the field-
house, the Notre Dame swords-· 
men brushed by.Ohio and Mich­
igan State by identical 16-11 
scores.
The scores, however, do not re-· · fleet the actual circumstances of either ineet. Notre Daine led
Ohio · State after the first five 
bouts and there did. not seem to 


previous bout, thenassuredNot-
I ROD and CUSTOM I 

re Dame of its twelfth victory I i by winning the crucial fourteenth I. CA-V.AL._CAD"E ,
· bout by a score of S-1, 
Coach DeCicco seemed pleased 1 
with the balance shovm by the I -I 
team in defeating the two Big· I F ·t •· ' ·th ll.f'd W t; 
Ten schools. No weapon had an I ea ur1ng_ . e 1f, 1 -es s 
r 

overall losing .record as foil led. Finest Show and Go Cars i 
with a lZ-6 mark followed by 1 
Sabre (11-7) and Epee (9-9). · t "'11\~~~.IJI I Bill Ferrence and -~like. Mc-I "'HOT RODS *CUSTOMS 1· 
· 

Quade led foil with 4-1 and-4-2 __·, *COMP-ET.ITI<;)N CARS.· _ _I 
,records respectively, Frank· I 
;----:---~::.::~:-:f;;;;,;tt~n~~~~~i~:~;ti:i: :h~~:!c!1~!:;:.~i:a~~~--I-:~~~s:8~~~ :oF~\~:?a~~M~R~-~-~I ~~-R~. ,L 
1 
.
I 
., 


I I · 1,: . 
which resulted in the final score Mike Dwyer also wenttmdefeated 
as he led the sabre with a 4-0 -­being closer than it_ 0therwise : record followed by juriior John 
~~~w~~ 
Klier who had a creditable 4-2
On the other hand, the Michigan · State · meet went right down to mark. · the wire, The Irish held a slim . Next week, the Irish travel to 
Madison to meet both Wisconsin 11-10 lead going into the Iast' six and Illinois, the Big Ten Cham­
. bouts. Thirigs could not have been much tighter as both tea.ms were pions. . 
I 2 NOON 12 lflD i
I MARCH 27 l · • 11 • i 
ADMISSION $1.25 I
I 
STUDENTS $l.OO _ ,-.-. I

I · · I · 
I STEPAN CENTER NOTRE DAME . 
· · . .. _ ' · 
I
I Produced by Coachmen Auto Club, Inc. ,

L.------------~-•-----.i 
tically cheering for their team­
'~t~;Jt:;:es:o~esn::~\~~;: t: __. 
merican Bill Ferrence,· deter..: I · · mined to vindicate himself after 1· losing a heartbreaker on a con­
teBted call by the direct9r in his_ ·I 
.Interhall· ,
I
t~1:k'-t~t1 I
wf~te~:at1!n!~o;.­·,. Tuesday evening at 6:45 p,m. in , . the fieldhouse. All under­
1 
graduates,except mei:nbers·ofthe . freshman orvarsitytracksquads '' I will be eligible to compete, I 
l_ 
Events to be held include:60yd. I , low hurdles; 220, 440 and 880yd. . ,._. 
. runs: 60 yd, dash; 440 and 880 yd, relays; · broad jump, high jump, d 1 · I di "d 1 · dal 
an s iot put. n V1 ua me s_ 
wi_
·11 be awarded to the first, se-, cond and third place finishers in each event, and: points won· at the meet will count towards the 
. h P -· 'de ' 
competition for t e _res1 nt s . Trophy presented annually to the . hall outstanding in interhall ath­
~~& . 
Entries. for the track meet will be accepted anytime at the inter­· hall office on the second floor of the ffeldhouse or on Tuesday
night before the meet, 
. Entries for the interhall hand­ball tournament,-which will be­
-gin next week, must be submitt-, The Chicago Stadium jinx was 
not to be denied . Saturday night 
as the fifth ranked Blue Devils 
of Duke scorched the fighting 
Irish 101-88. 
Despite the reports of the WSND 
announcers who were deceived by 
a defective scoreboard, Notre · 
Dame was never in the lead; but until the final 4 minutes, they were never out of the game, Duke, hmvever, managed to score big when it most needed to, andN,D,' s . "catch up" efforts fell short a­
gain and again. 
A portent of what was to come 
occurred early in the game, With 
the score 17-14 and the Irish ap­
parently on' the move, Duke netted 
a quick 6 points to p.1t the game 
temporarily out of reach. · 
It was a feat they were to per­
form with devastating regularity 
·as the game -progressed. The 
Irish, however, came struggling 
back, and with the aid of some 
fine follow-up rebounding by 
Larry Sheffield and by Jay Miller 
the Irish climbed to within a 
point of Duke with 15 minutes 

·. · ·. ·.. .: ---w_.·-·a·_-ll't -B.J·o· ·. -·
W··. e· _ --O·d'-_ ·1 
h
The Voice is lookingfor blood, new andfresh blood for its s{aff/t at is.:' 1.·· ·In case you don't know ifyou're up to it check the following billet descriptions, 
· as submitted by p~esen:t stafi members_. · : ·1 

headline·man 
"Brief writing stressed." ,i 
.copy and proof reading . 
"We maintain the papers .accurace in spillin,g; grammer and style.''.· 

business 
·  ··  
"You'll  like' working  with  us. There's  
- 

to make .money, ·gain.
opportunity for you 
valuable and needed experience,· make vi­" 1 b · t · d 't l · · 
ca ustness contac s -an t o~ y means 
a mino_r investment of your time•. '. · 
·· 

sports . .. 
"Upsetting old standards of moss.:cov.: ered sports writing, we claw into encounc.:. ·ers with the whirling worlds of the Irish 
gridmen, harriers, _grapplers, swordsmen,
h · l -k d
.oopsters, s uggers, tan ers , an net-,' men•., 
I 

news 1·· 
I·_· 
"Positions on the Voice news staff open .. 1today, Feb. 17, current editors announced· 
here. Curiosity, integrity, persistence and punctuality are· l_isted as qualities most looked for in applicants." 
· t 
" -layou 
· · We try top · 
and , . resent a neat 
. precise ·J . • 
· ayo11r.· •• 


editorial 
. "What ne·ede· d. 1·s .·
1s . a yearnmg to stimulate the manipulations of cereberal ·_ ·. impulses to a'-suffi_cient degr_ee of activi­. ty so that the · f ·
experiences o our environs 
·may be subject to scrutiny in order chat the appropriate. alteration·s,' reirl~dies ·and much desired improvements can be recom­
d d f . ·· 
men e . or the change of the.existing sit-
nation." . . . . . . . . ap· pealin_.g-and 
. 
. 
,,-' . I
1. 
·t
I
I I
I 
l 
. 
· I 
· l 
II 

fJi-E.~~~-:!t~_-·IIJ any oft~:.::__ ,;~::~:se:c:?p~:,:a:~~e'a.c~:;_ar;:gr_· .yi:=~eJ~O::::::semV:.!cc·:_-g'krnoo_u:;,b.out it. ·_·. 
stl!dents may .enter either. of i 'J 'J r . :f!~~v{~f:::i~; 1fi!:~;:~: .I class an~ reasonfor ~a~ting to join_the Vofoe s~aff, :sh~uld be mailed to The Voice, ' :idew;:.~ f;~;~Y~owards the Pre-'--~--:__:_D_l!!:!!;~-_o!~~::__1!_a::!.E.~~~!!!!!.hJ±..~;:_.-~--~---J Foto News Litho -:: Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana .· 




