
-:: 
Shriver To Get Award At Stepan Thurs. 
When his service career ended, presidential campaign committee has declared this Peace CorpsR, Sargent Shriver, Director of and presently an assistant to 
the Peace Corps and Special Shriver on the Peace Corps, he spent a short time with a Wall and in March of 1961 he resigned Week on campus. Among the Shriver graduated cum laude Street law firm, and served two his position as assistant general Corps members staffing. the in­
Presidential Assistant in charge 
of the war on poverty, will from Yale in 1938, having served years as an associate editor of manager of the Merchandise Mart formation center in room 28 ofre­to become director of the newly­the Student Center is Steve
as editor of the student news­"Newsweek." For a year he wasceive the 12th annual Patriotism created Peace Corps,
Award of the Senior class to­paper, He completed Yale Law an associate with Joseph P, Murray, a 1961 Notre Dame 
Kennedy Enterprises, and then Shriver is also in charge of the graduate, He was a volunteer in· 
School in 1941 and was admitted to the New York State Bar As-joined the Merchandise Mart in administration's "War on Pov­the first Peace Corps projectmorrow, The presentation of this 
. award by Senior Class President Lawrence Beshel will be the cli-sociation that year, Chicago as administrative assis­erty" and as presidential as­in Latin America, and is now 
tant, sistant, regularly attends cabi­Liason Officer for Latin Ameri­max of the Washington's Birth-He joined the Navy the same In 1954; Martin Kennelly, then net meetings, President Johnson ca in the Peace Corps Divisionday Exercises, beginning at 8:00 year and was commissioned an major of Chicago, appointed . has said of him. "I regard Sar­of Volunteer Support; p.m. in the Stepan Center, ensign. He later saw action in Shriver to the Chicago Board of gent Shriver as one of the most Placement tests are being given The program will begin with the the South Pacific on the battle­Education, he brilliant, most able and most tomorrow, Monday and
Star Spangled Banner, sung by ship U.S,S. South Dakota, Being and was elected Friday, 
president of this board the next competent officials in the gov­Tuesday,Hilton Hill, Ray Burke, general promoted to lieutenant, he vol.:. 
year, Shriver was also active on ernment, I regard him as my Other members of the commit­chairman of the event, will de-·unteered for the submarine corps real confidant."
liver the welcome, followed by for the rest of the war, He was Chicago's Catholic Interracial tee handling arrangements for 
L Council. Because of Shriver' s visit, Rev. the exercise are Kevin Regan,·
the presentation of a U. S, Flag in the crew of one of the sub­He worked on John Kennedy's Theodore M, Hesb~rgh, c.s.c .. Bob Hoag,: Mike Reed, Jackto Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, c.s.c, marines that entered Tokyo Bay, Dobie and Bill Fabec, by Matt Lamert, senior class 
vice-president, 111/f'f 7flJl'E 
The -evening will close with a J}J. NlJl 
Stay Hall silent prayer in remembrance 
~_r. of patriots who have died in the 
~
l.. /. 
past year, and the alma mater. Vote Moved
< 

Shriver will arrive ·on campus tomorrow afternoon, and attend a press conference, · cocktail 
OF NO'JfBIE BAM/IE to Monday
party and dinner, Accompanying him will be Harris Woffard, · a former professor at Notre Dame, . Volume 3, Number 12 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY Wednesday, February 17, 1965 The votes on the experimental
,l -m.AT.• , s stay-hall proposal and quota sys-
Theatre • ust lf.J.lSSes uccess temforupper~classeshallshave
been postponed until the Senate TY7•th p • t ' 'C t .k ' meeting next Monday, The poll
,,,,, l . in er s are a er of all students in each hall will Throughout the play there is a streets, society's failure, and a be taken Sunday. 
By Earl Guertin serious inability to communicate man unable to direct his own T~e delay will give stay-hall between the characters, Clen-life. His own depravity makes committee time for an extensive The University Theatre's su­. non' s Mick is speechless and him useless to the brothersfrom publicity campaign,. ·including
spenseful and sometimes tragi­even cowering when in Aston's the outset. Thus Pinter's mess-meetings in each hall. 
cally humorous production of age is that the. tramp,. a -being Another reason for the delay is
presence, Distrustful of Aston's
British playwright Harold Pin­of lower stature ·than the half-'that Student government mem­
silence, the tramp turns his alle­
ter's "The Caretaker'' was pre­gience to the younger brother crazy brothers, cannot possibly hers will attend their .annual re­sented in Washington HaU last only to find Mick's intentions provide a solution to the broth-treat this weekend.
weekend. It will again be given hidden by cunning lies, ers' problem. Unless we expect. The purpose of the poll is toai­this Thursday, Friday, aridSatur-. 
The tramp' s position as care­a miracle, we will foresee from low senators to know the opinionday, Feb, 18,19, 20 at 8:30, taker offers a view into the the characterizations the event..;.. of the members of the halls onTuned to the nerve-tingling ping brothers' obscured minds. While ual ouster of the tramp. the two · questions, but the sena­of water as it splashes into a they are kindred. in their in.:.. Here lies the weakness in Pint-tors to ·1<now the opinion of-the bucket set beneath a hole in the sanity, ·the effects of Aston's er's play. The Caretaker could members of the halls on the tworoof, "The Caretaker" takes its shock treatments provide an im­have made a better one-act than questions, but the senators are·eerie and depressing mood from passable breach between them. three-act play. Daviescoinplains not bound' to vote with the hall 
its getting in a crumbling attic-­majority.
Each recognizes the need of a
bedroom, very well designed to 
third person as an intermediary,
include even the stark patches Continued on page 4
But Davies is a bum off the
where plaster had fallen from the wall. 
The delapidated house is owned by·Mick, played by David Clen­non, the younger of two mentally deranged brothers, Clennon stalks about the empty, unlit 
room, and stares blanklyfor long moments as he becomes instru­mental in setting the mood of suspense, Of the characters, Clennon also best achieves the use of the low class Londoner's accent. 
Living in the attic is Mick' s "John Goldfarb, Please Come brother Aston, playedbyAIDunn, Home" could be arriving at whose task is to rennovate the . 
movie theaters 'around the coun-old building. Aston's mind had ry in the near future if last been damaged by the shocktreat­week' s· unanimous decision of ments he had received while a the Appellate Division of the New patient in an insane asylum, Thus York State Supreme Court re-Dunn portrays a sullen and slow­mains in force. minded character, yet his inter-The official spokesmen for Not-pretation is at times unconvinc­re Dame say they will carry the ing, He is occasionally too stiff case to the New York State Court in both his lines and his actions. of Appeals, the highest court of His first responses, "Yes, ••• the state; They were allowed IO yes, • , • '' are too unnatural days to obtainpermissionforthis and one wonders whetherhisten­action. sions are those of the plays slow-
The five judge panel, through witted _Aston or of an actor upon Presiding Justice Bernard Bo-a stage, 
Davies the tramp, played by Terry Francke, cow•
·' tein, claimed ''that courts may Into this filthy den as a place 
ers _before _Mick (Dave Clennon) in ()niver~ity
not muffle expression by passing of refuge, Aston brings Davies, judgment on its skill or clumsi;. an old and vile tramp, played by ness, its sensitivity or coarse:.: Terry Francke, He is at one ness, nor on whether it pains or moment badgering, the next cow­pleases,•i ering, and successfully. brings 


Vote Kills Room Phone's 
Justice Botein' s report, on out the comedy inherent in this. every_· major point, was nearly misfit of society, Ungrateful for There will be no individual · dividual halls. Sorin and Morri--. ferendum will probable force this opposite to the earlier decision his unearned lodging, Daviesccin­phones installed in any campus ssey had over 66% voting pro, issue into the background until in_ a lower court which granted tinually complains; yet each hall. This is too mandat·e handed but.enough students·wereirivolved stay-hall is decided. the. injunction against the movie, brother makes a separate offer the administration by the stu-to meet the minimum require-· If new stay-hall is voted down The court furtoor advired the for him to stay on as caretaker, dent body in too referendum of ments of the phone company, in the Student Senate this coming University to change its plea Soon, however, Davies becomes Thursday, Feb, 11, Although 54,5% These requirements, however, Thursday night, then the phone from· _one of protection of a prop-contemptuous of his benefactor of too students· voting were in were never explicit although 1300 issue might come up again next erty right in its good name and and attempts to ally himself to favor of the installations, this is students voted favorable, almost year., reputation to one of libel. Mick again::;t the oloor brother, far short of the percentage re;. twice the minimum requirement, If .the experimental stay-hall Notre Dame will not'sue for Ii-When in a rash of angerthe tramp quired to make such a transition ·phones are still out. The reason comes in, then the phone issue bel, however, because such action calls "a stinking shed" the struc­feasible, · for this has not been made clear, will probably fall into the back­allows for only a monetary a-ture which was to be the beginn­. No group of halls had a high The lack of student support for ground until the success of stay­ward, not an injunction against ing of Aston's rebuilding, Davies enough percentage for the issue the phones indicated by the re-hall is decided. . showing the fil~ is expelled from the house~ to warrant phones in these _in-



__,... ... 

......,,.. ---~ • -•-----•-"•~----•,__.,,,_,.,,_., ~-_._..____..,.,-~•t • "" •h-• ••••--_..,.••-••,r ,._,....._-• ,,.,~••••••--•-----••..--,--~••~•"'"" ••--• ,_.,.,_ ••-•"'••"--••-"'••-••-•••-•: • ~ • .... • 
........,, ..._....____,,~-~--..., . Page 2 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY Wednesday, February 17, 1965 
New ·Rulebook ·For An Old Game 
., 
'Publish or Perish' is the name of the game. More tragically, the University and the stu­and evalua~ion to give it the proper punch. It's much like chess, and we Irish can play it dent lose. The University becomes mutated It's a natural. By giving out. questionnaires nearly as well as anyone. into a research·· factory, forsaking the devel­to each student at the end of the semester 
Necessary equipment: opment of the student, while the student is student editors can obtain .and include the \~ pawns • -professors kept from getting the education he foots the evaluation, be it negative or positive. manipulating hands --administrators bill for. He makes a bigger investment of Now is the time .to begin such a program. board --Notre Dame University complex time, hope, effort and money than his eventu­Now, when the University is obviously con­
squares "·hich the pawns move on --students al •'education" warrants. cerned with teacher quality and is gearing so Object of game: for nobody to win, especi-This is no surprise, of course. Nearly any much of Challenge 11 to securing it. 
ally if he calls himself a student. honest student can see in his first year here Sincere administrators should be open to it, In the modern scramble of the modern Univer­that he is faced with too many potential for such systematic reports could be import-· sity, which Notre Dame is desperately trying teachers, too few actual ones and some that ant guides to the professors they are contin­
to become, the modern professor either puts are plain ridiculous. ually dealing with. . 
.. 

. up or is squelched, either he researches and This is just the point then --Notre Dame Teachers should encourage it, unless there 
publishes or he leaves. Teachers, the real should have a vital, candid, and systematic are more 'young men in a hurry' here than w:e kind, are made so rare that the dictionary may program for registering students' opinions of are even aware of. yet be their final resting place. And in this their professors. Students are the customers, Students should certainly be open, It would .. way nobody wins and the game is over. and this time they really do have a good part offer the chance to deal some _honest and tell-
The· real teaching professor loses, for he has of the answer. _On the whole they can be the ing blows at time-wasting le'cturers, and to '~ ,,· to quit teaching, or shift his attention to pub­fairest judges of the teaching being given encourage and congratulate better ones. lishing, which for most means the same thing. them. Their answer is .. far more accurate than Imagine the ~ealth of information that could The conscientious· administrator loses, for .the depressing standard of 'publish or perish'. be tapped. For, if you assume that every stu­he has to gear his selection, promotion, sal­The means for this expression are already at dent spends just 30 seconds a class, admit­.ary• and grants of absence and tenure pro­hand, in the student course booklet begun 
tedly not too much, evaluating the teacher's 

grams to a false standard. this semester. All it lacks is a broader scope lecture you can arrive at the figures of 30 hours per day already being given to such evaluation. This sho11ldn't go wasted.

c\-\EE"R dP... coURSE EVALUArioN ~iMPOfi'TRN r:.. o" A,i'lrt,:,,,-:;-· •  isN ·r  

To Have or To Strangle 

Before those of you who have hands at the throat of the new Stay Hall experiment exert enough pressure to throttle it out of existence make sure you're facing the real question, facing it squarely. 
'\­

That is, that this proposal is an experiment; 4 that it is not likely to. make anyone do some-:r. ·•-thing they are violently_ opposed t-o ·and that· 
••.i: 
it is the only sound alternative now open to 
...,
.... 
us. In your consideration don't be blinded _by an unjustified worry over the practical and 
~ 
fail to see the hope a real Stay Hall system 

·. can hold_ for. friendships, development of ma­"" turity and responsibility, easing of outdated ,:.... regulations, and a better hall life. 
6
Don't take. such a tight grip that you wake . 
.. 
some day to find you've choked yourselves and those to follow you. ~ 
Again, we urge you to carefully study the i chance· you have this week. When done with that --vote yes, support a decision for your 
'-"~ 
senator to cast his vote in the same way next ._ 

l
week. 
... 

'We Hang S.uspended,' Says St~dent Body President 
. Since Stay Hall Residence isthe permanent friends of differing at full stay hall in three halls. some evidence upon which to de­ilege of a residence university. most important issue student ages, with the premium on the The quotas in the other halls in­cide which way we will move out govemment has brought .to the hall with a· traditionally good sure ·that the freedom will be of our suspension--which way is John Gearen students in the last four years, · character, preserved in the meantime--that best to exploit this unusual priv-Student Body Preside":t it .seems clearly worthwhile to For many years, Notre Dame no orie will be forced out of the take another-newer and broader-had class halls, Then, three years . desirable, dominating halls; THIE view of it. ago, prompted by the success of What the plan· acknowledges, 

In the historical.development of·. the stay hall system in the Ivy then, is that: first Notre Dame a university, the unit of student . League Colleges, student govern-has, as a· residence campus, the activity changes as the univer-ment offered stay hall to the stu-opportunity that few universities 

0/F NOTRE DAME­

sity gets larger. First, the en-. dents,· and the students voted for have to develop strong" units of tire university can operate as a it. Since the vote was not over-activity within the community, unit, ,then the particular classr .. whelming, .the system was put second, being suspended between • . the larger unit swells until the in without any controls; each stu-class halls and stay halls seems . Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni~ individual becomes faceless, a-.. dent had the opportunity of stay-• to hold less promise than either .vers:ity of Notre Dame. Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; 
. nonymous, and. searches for a ing in his own room in the halls, extreme, and third, the. students·. Post Office Box 1•.· .. · . . ·. · . · smaller. one. In commuter uni-and after that, everyone moved. have voted in some movement Board of Review. , • , , ••Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S,C., John Gearsen. · versitites, · the breakdown goes In ·the next two years, artifi-away from class halls toward EDITOR. •.•••••·••••••• ~ •••••••••••BARRY JOHANSON , on further than the class; uni-. cialities · were added to induce . stay halls. . . . Associate Editor:••••·, ••••••••••• , •••• , ••Grover Nix 111 · \'.'.. ~ . versity activity reaches an,early students to stay, and more did What the plan takes as its basis News Editor:. , • , ••• , , , , , • , , • , •••••• , •••• ,John Buckley . ' -11,; saturation point, and faceless-stay, in the particularly good is that stay hall could be worth-Assistant News Editor:•• ,, ••••••••••••'••• , •• ,Bob Lumpkins
L 
ness is common. The few re-halls, So, Notre Dame hangs while; that it has worked ex-News Staff:••••••• , •• ,Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Dan Murray, \ "; , sidence universities, -though, ca.n suspended between the_·· two trt~rnely well in some of the best . Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, John Sibley, Dick Veit, Steve Feldhaus, breakdown farther into the hall choices of stay 'halls or class universities in the country, and Ray Faery, Buck M::Fadden. RickSchleef, BillSiska, Pat Strickler; unit. And Notre Dame, ·one of halls, enjoying the freedom ofits that it seemstopromisethemost · Jim Elliot ·.. -· · · . · -· · these few, has done. that. , position, but suffering, because definitive way away from anony-Sports-Editors:, ••• ~ , • •• •••Lou Bartoshesky, and Bob Campbell 
Next comes the difficult ques-certain halls begin ·to be over-mity toward the kind of hall unit Sports Staff:••••••• ~ • , .l'vllke Read, Dan Ferguson, l\1ike Granger, 
·· tion whether tochoosedasshalls whelmtngly dominant, at the ex-· which provides traditional char-Norm Laurendeau, George Kruszewski, Bill Brown, Jere Locke or st.a'/ halls, Presumably, the pense of. the others and of the acter and an opportunity ·for real Business Manager:. , • , , , ••• , • , • , , • • , •• , .John O'Hanlon · .:,;:_, . advantage of class halls wouldbe balance of the campus, And the action, . . Advertising Manager:, ••• , • , , • , , , ~ , ·•• , , • , • , ,·,Ken Socha a yearly-changing set of friends dominance Is self-perpetuating What· the plan asks is that you Advertising Salesmen:•• , •• , • , • , ~ ••• ; .Cregg and Roger Barron 
.. of the ·same age, with .the pre-and may well bec_ome more pro-allow stay hall to be tried--:.per-. Layout Editor:. , , .•. , , ,-, •• , • , • , •.••' , , • ,•, , •• ,Dennis Kern mium on a good room; the ad-nollllced. . haps later it willask that yo_u Assistant.Layout Editor:. , ••• , •••.••••• , • , •••• ~Steve Vogel vantage of· stay hall would be What .the present plan provides. try it yourself,Simplythatyoulet Layout Staff:••: ; ·••••••••• , •••• ',,,,.~.~ •••Dave Griffin 
' for is an experimental attempt :it be tried, so that we will have Proofreader:. , ••• , • ; •••·• , • , • ,• •••• , ; ••• ;Jolui Radosevich , ..._..,, 
Wednesday, Febmary 17, 196 5 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY Page 3 \ . 
Civil Rights Commission

·Concern For Stu.dents Nets 
Sponsors Talk on Miscegenation
·•.

Daunf()rth For Costellos' 
Law School. He served on theDr. and !vfrs. Donald P. Cos-· and in bettering the 'relations be-intellectual, moral, and spiritual John de J, Pemberton, Jr., exe­faculty of the Duke Universitytel10 have been appointed the tween student and teachers. Ran-· growth of students,/' Rankin cutive director of the American Law School from 1947 through

first Danforth Associates atNot­kin said Assoc_iates appointments .· said. Civil Liberties Union, will speak 
1950.

re Dame according to an an­are given to faculty members and The Associate a\Vard is· ac­on miscegenation next Wednes­nouncement by Robert Rankin, their wives ''who have demon-companied by a small monetary day, Feb, 24, at 8:00 p.m. in the He was chairman of the Min­
nesota Advisory Committee to.

associate director of· the Dan­strated personal ·concern for stu-stipend, to allow the professor Law Auditorium. His talk is spon­the U.S. Civil Rights Commis­forth Foundation, St, Lollis, Mo. dents, combined With scholarly to continue entertaining and ad­sored by the Civil Rights Com-. 
sion. ­Dr. Costello is an assistant pro­achievement in their fieid of vising his students. Also, As­mission. 

He has bee,n executive director

fessor of English. teaching. •• sociates attend a conference each Pemberton was graduated from of the ACLU since 1%2.
The Danforth Foundation is in­"They are chosen because they summer, where they can ells­Swarthmore College and Harvard 
terested in general areas of high­are actively concerned with the 'cuss their problems with fellow er education and human values, associates. · 
The Associate appointmentScholarship Deadline March 15 winners are determined by a re­gional committee, Most large 
Students wishing to.compete for Scholarship-Service postmared colleges have one or two A sso­Notre Dame scholarships for the by March 15, ciates. 1965-66 academic year and stu­All forms can be obtained from Professor Costello, who joined dents who presently hold scholar-. the Financial Aid-Scholarship the faculty in 1960, is a special­ships from the University to re­Office, Room Ill, tvlain Building. ist in modern fiction and Amer-, 
new them must fill out the proper ican literature. He is a graduate forms before March 15, of DePaul University and holds a The deadline date has been master's degree and doctorate
AFROTC 

changed from the April 15 date from the University of Chicago, 
of previous years in order to Junior Air Fo;ce ROTC cadets utilize the Princeton University assumed command of the 225th selection facilities, according to Cadet Wing informal ceremonies Jlfalw. f?/~ti&J 
Brother Robert Sinnaeve, c.s.c., .held February g and 9. Cadet PROFtnBLE BUSINESS• SATISFYING HOBBY executive secretary of'the schol-Lt, Col Kevin Daly, Wing Com­
FREE CATALOG & SPECIAL
arship committee, mander for the spring semester, 
INTRODUCTORY

Under the new procedure both received the swagger stick and 

OFFER 

new applicants and renewal ap-cord as symbols of his office 
Co~plete easy instruc­plicants must subm_.it a parents' from Cadet Col. PeterHendricks, tions for making sterling
silver and gold filled ro•
confidential financial statement Cadet Major William St. Paul
... saries ·plus rosaries to be . for 1965-66 to the. College · will be the new Executive Offi-used by · the Missions. 
Send for yours today: No. 
.cer•. Ne~ droup Commanders -obligati_on.. 
Tryouts for "UnderMilkwci~d," are Cadet Major John Battison, · to be presented by St, Mary's Group I, and Cadet Major Robert LEWIS & COMPANY drama department in March, are Donophin, Group 2, · 500 3rd Ave., Troy, N. Y. in progress this week. Those in­terested may try out in Moreau 
\ Hall tonight and tomorrow 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. · 
This summer, aC,venture thro~gh ­

.!_.\.-... 
has~ the right-tours,. at the right prices. 
j(fji an·c .
~--. · Mth. 
~~· ampug Ma.t9hulman
~ 
'~· (By the author of "R_ally_R?und the Flag, Boys!",
..·.·. 
·f >;,. "Dobie Gillis," etc.) 
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH 
Today I begin my eleventh year of writing this column in your campus newspaper. · · · 
I wasn't sure I'd be coming back this year. After a decade of doing this column, I had retreated to my country scat, tired but happy, to enjoy a nice long rest. But last night as I sat on my verandah, peaceful and serene, humming the largo from A Long Day's Night and wonning my dog, a stranger suddenly app!'ared before me. · ·· · 
He was a tall, clean-limbed man, crinkly-eyed and crooked­grinned,. stalwart and virile. "How do you do," he said. "l\Iy name is Stalwart Virile and I am with the Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blade-people." · 
"Enchanted," I said. "Take off'your homburg_and sit down." I clapped my hands sharply. "Norman!"I called. "Another chair ..· for Mr. Virile!" 

"Another chair for j,l[r._ Virile!IJ 
Obediently my dog trotted away and returned directly with a. · fanback chair of Malayan rattan. He is the smartest dog in our block. "I suppose you're wondering why I am here," said Mr. Virile, seating himself. · ­"Well, sir," I replied, my old eyes twinkling roguishly, "I'll 
wager you didn't come to read my meter." ' 
You can imagine how we howled at that one! 
'.'That's a doozy!" cried l\Ir. Vjrile, _finally catchii1g his )Jreat_h, 
"I must remember to tell it to Alice when I get home." 
"Your wife?" I said. 
"l\'ly father," he said . 
. "Oh," I said. 
"But enough of wit and humor," he said. "Let us get clown to 
business. How would you like to write a campus column for 
Personna Stainless Steel Razor Blades?" 
."For money?" I said. 
· "Yes," he said. . 
"My hand, sir," I said and clasped his. Wannly he returned 
the pressure, and soft smiles played upon our lips, and our eyes 
were moist with the hint of tears, and we were silent, not trust­
h_1g ourselves to speak. 
"What ,viii you write abouf in your campus coiumn?" asked . l\Ir. Virile when he was able to talk asain. 
"Iwill take up the burning issues that vex the American un­
dergraduate!',' I cried, bounding to my feet. "I will explore, with­
out fear or favor, such explosi\'e questions as 'Are roommates 
sanitary?' and 'Should proctors be given.a saliva test?' and 
'Should capital punishment for pledges be abolished?' and 'Can 
a student of 19 find happiness with an economics professor of 80?"'. 
"And will you also say a pleasant word from time to time about . 
Pcrsonna Stainless Steel Razor Blades?" asked :Mr. Virile. 
"Sir," I said simply, "what other kind·ofword except pleasant 
could I possibly say about Personna Blades, which give me more 
luxury shaves than Beep-Beep or any other blade I might name?" . 
"Another of my products is Burma Shave," said ~fr. Virile. 
"Can you find it in your heart to mention Bunna Shave occa­
sionally?" 
"But of course!" I declared. "For is not Burma Shave the 
whisker-wilt ingest lather in the land?" 
"Ycs," he admitted. , 
And then he shook my hand again and sn1.ilcd bravely and· 
was gone-a tall silhouette moving erectly into the setting sun. 
''Fare,\·ell, good tonsorialist!" I cried after him. "Aloha!" 
Ai1d turned with a ,vill to my typewriter. 
© 1965. lllax sliulman 
* * * 
\ ,,:
. 
The makers of Pcrsonna® Blades andBurma Shave®are happy to bring you another season of .Max Shulman's uncensored, uninhibited, and unpredictable column·. We thinkyou'll be happy too when you try ourproducts. 
Don't stumble through the literary classics. Clfff'S NOTES will help you make better grades! Ttiese study aids give you aclear, concise summary and explanation, chapter by chapter. CLIFrS NOTES are now. being used by high school and col· .. lege !j,ludents throughout the United 
·Slates. There are 100 dillerent CLIFF'S NOHS covering the literary classics. 

·C-•. $1
,,-.;,"~'­
t_ -at your .favorite 
Would you like to sun-bathe on the Mediterranean? Browse in the Louvre?live.with a family in Spain? Or just roam through. 
·Rome? TWA-offers you the adventure of your choice, fr.om • 14 to 68 days, at a reasonable price. You can visit Europe's historic sights, heardelightful music, watch sparkling' drama. Tours also combine sightseeing with college courses at famous universities. 
· You travel with people your own age and meet people of your own age inEurope. Explore the most inte'resting. places in England, France, Spain, Italy and many other countries. All accommodations are reserved in advance. 
Travel by comfortable motorcoach, or visitout-of-the-.. 
way towns and villages by bicycle. Wherever you want 
·.·to go, whatever you want to do; TWA has a tour that suits_ you perfectly. For further information, see your travel agent. Or·contact your local TWA office . 

bookstore ··or write: 

Nationwide ~ Worldwide depend on
-1:liffsrllat~· 
BETHANY STATION . · LINCOLN, NEBRASKA 68505 


·--·"· 
t.
Wednesday, -February 17, 1965

Page 4 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 
Caretaker "· 
.,


How Do You Take·a Trip With 22 Kids? -Patience 
about his shoes, the open window, ... 
-·­

' ,·' ,,. ..,~ 
By Ray Foery 
How do you transport a bus­load of 22 young, happy children from South Bend to Chic.ago' s Science and Industry !Vluseum and back again without losing either some of the kids or all of your nerves? This was the problem faced by a group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's tutors last Satur­day as they chaperoned a field trip in connection with the Neigh­borhood Study Help Program. ·Led by Notre Dame sophomore Frank Marasco, the 13 col­legians-eight boys and girls-and their young pupils left South Bend at 8:00 a.m. Saturday. A couple of hours later their bus, donated by the Indiana Motor Bus Com­pany, pulled up to the Chicago 
who?who? none but 

you,you­

one of itskindintheworld. And Common Market SuhJeCt of Lecture 
of most saw the U505,. ·. · • · Museum of Science and Industry. 
After last-minute instructions from the tutors, the group di­verged upon the. museum's vast number of varied exhibits. Many stopped at the Communications Center where they could test their hearing, see their "telephone voice" on a sound wave machine, and even talk viavideo-telephone to fellow tourists in Disneyland, California. 
Others vi sited the coal mine, an authentic reporduction of a Southern Illinois mine, the only 

course, the world-famous German sub­marine captured in World War 11 The Committee on International and transported to the museum. Relations is · presenting ''The 
.After a break for lunch, the Common Market at the Cross-· group returned to their quest for· roads," a lecture by James H. the interesting and fascinating. Huizinga at 8:00 p.m. tonight in Finally the gang boarded the bus the library auditorium. for the return trip. Sorig soon Educ~ted at the Leyien Univer­premeated the atmosphere asthe sity, Yale and Columbia Univer­tutors and tutees joined in sing-sities, Mr. Huizinga has been fog all of their favorite rnel­
concerned a· St, Mary's junior who had planned to make the trip, While the SMC girlswerewaiting in· Le Mans Hall for the bus •to meet them, Kitty Buckley· went to buy doughnuts for the group, When she returned, the bus had come and gone, leavingKittywith an annful of doughnuts. Fortu­nately, there happened to be enough hungry St. Mary's stu­. dents in the hall to relieve Kitty · 
of her burden. 
• 
London correspondent and roving correspondent for the Nieuwe Rotte.rdamse Courant. In his work for that newspaper, he· has trav­.eled extensively through Afric~. the l\1iddle East and South East · Asia. His specialized field is the study of. European integration. 
and the stove far too often. One 
mention of each seems sufficient, 
unless the actors themselves are 
at fault, keeping the production 
at one level of tension through­
out instead od clearly building 
to the conclusion. 
The final scene poses a serious 
problem, Why does the playwright 
have Mick bring Davies back into 
the room? The play logically ends 
with the tramp' s initial expulsion, 
and Francke' s pleas are neither ' 
convincing nor of any use, The brothers' eyes meet and Mick leaves. If this were meant by the author to be a moment of com­munication· between the brothers in deciding Davies fate, Clennon and Dunn do not convince the audience that this breakthrough has been made, Rather Clennon ·cringes as if he had done some­
thing wrong, and with him leaves · 
the spark of hope that there may 
have been a success in the care­

taker's brief stay. 

odi~s, A stop for ice cream on the way back completed the day, and the bus arrived in South Bend about 7:30 pm. 
Besides the college students, two other people went along to share the driVing. Mr. Jim . Williams, the regular driver of the tutoring buses, was accom­panied by Mr. Glaes, whose wife is head of the tutoring program in South Bend. 
The only casualty of the day 
· · 

I didn't think Charlie was that.kind. of guy... 
That car  
-he's driving  
tonight...  
He's  Yes,  bucket seats,· ·  
always been  I know.  carpeting,  Frankly, I  Yes,  
sort of a,  Wide ties,  console,  don't think  who does he think  
·well, you know what  wide lapels and all.  vinyl trim, big VB.  he can afford it.  he's going to impress?  \  Hi, Charlie.  



It's Dodge Coronet. And. frankly, Charlie can afford it. So can you. Coronet. The hot new Dodge at a new lower price. 
Coronet 500 sports the following as standard equipment, all-vinyl interior, front bucket seats, full carpeting, · padded dash. directional signals, backup lights. deluxe wheel covers, center console, 273 cubic inch VB.: 
DODGE DIVISION,~ CHRVSL.ER


'&5 Dodge Coronet 
~ MOTIIRS CORPORATION 

See all the new Dodges on display at your nearby Dodge Dealer's. 
------------WATCH "THE BOB HOPE SHOW," NBC-TV;, CHECK Y'OUR LOCAL LISTING.-----------­
"' 
,.,,., 

.,. 
_.. 
..,
., 
... 
.. 

ZT
·\. '.'· ~ 
f ~ J, 
\ '-~~' : Jo-~ 
·.... :........
.. 
•J 



Page 5

Wednesday, February 17, 1965 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 
• ment, . easy to compare one hall and floor with another: room dimen­
Floor PlanBooklet To Ai" RoomSelect1ngh~;:~:e;roj~~:1~f~1;;t:!~ 
sions and forced accomodations A residence hallfloor plan book-sidence halls, copied from. the . of the. Hall Presidents' Council. veral difficulties of room se-will be clearly marked," let is scheduled for publication official room selection charts in Printing costs for the proposed lection, 
The students, even the fresh­

in time for room selection. The . the Office of Student Accounts. . booklet--expected to contain ap-"It should save · a lot of leg­
men who have yet to see the offi­

work is being done by a Senate Each plan will indicate the room proximately 80 pages--will be work," he points out, "since 
cial charts, will hopefully be fa-.

Welfare subcommittee headed by classification and dimensions. A absorbed by the Senate Welfare everyone will get an idea of where 
miliar with them and with selec­

~-· Minch Lewis. brief description ofthe individual Committee, A limited number of to start looking without going a­
_tion procedure before they enter

The booklet i~ planned to con-hall spirit and past year's acti-copies will be made available to round to all the halls. It will be 
Student Accounts•.

tain the floor plans of all the re-Vities will be taken from the files each hall through hall govern-
j
. 

rm 



. 





t-
r 
pan 

II 

.., 
How many companies can you name that have grown 106% in the past 6 yea~s? •1· 
.:;;.. 
Put Corning· at the top of your list. 
Interview with Corning. __ 
We could be the company you're looking for. 
Here's why. Come with Corning, and you'll be innovator. From our research comes a constant stream working with a company that has grown 106% in the of new glass formulas, new product ideas. And what past six years. Future growth-even greater. We're big we research we i:nake. 65% of our business is in prod­('64 sales-$327.6 million), but not too big. You'll never ucts we developed in the past 15 years. You'll find the get lost at Corning. . pace fast_ and the challenge constantly changing at 
Come with Corning, and you'll be working with the Corning. world leader in glass,. ceramics and related materials. Come. with Corning, and you'll start with an im­You.'11 be working with men who have developed rriore •mediate assignment. In a job probably opened due to than 43,000 different products for science, industry, recent promotion, or because of Corning's rapid growth. and the home. Missile nose cones, tiny electronic com­Our management is young. Your career will be well ponents, rugged steel mill refractories, heat exchangers under way while many of your classmates are still wait­for gas turbine. engines, foam packaging, even table­ing to get out of formal training programs. _There is no ware. You'll never stop learning as you move ahead limit to how far you can go atCorning. with Corning. Check your. placement office for challenging oppor­

Come with Cor~ing, and you'll be working with an tunities in your _field~ 
We'll -be on Campus Feb. 25. Register now for your interview.· 
i,

.. CORNING-· 
' 

CORNING GLASS WORKS 
Corning, N.Y. An equal opportunity employer 

Page 6 
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY Wednesday, February 17, 1965 ~ q
.J 
Weston To Give 

Finance Lecture 

<t 
~"',I
Dr. J, Fred Weston, professor 

The record is reached! 39½ people finally crowded 
ND Attends 
into the car ta -establish a new world's record /or 
Mock UN 
_car-stuffing. The feat 
Notre Dame is representing 
merited UPI-coverage. Spain in the fourth Annual Mid­west Model United Nations to be held in St, Louis March 3-6, The
39½ in Ford 
delegation consists of Paul Meag­her, Nash Flores, -· Hernan . 
Notre Dame claimed a world Puentes, John McGuire and Al ·record,: in car-stuffing .in: the Valkenaar, fieldhouse last Saturday afterthe The·purpose of this conference basketball game, A total of391/2 is to give the participants an in­
people crowded into a 1965 ,Ford sight into the positions of_ all Galaxie to top the previous mark countries on the issues of the day of 37 set by Belleville Junior The schedule includes two Model College in a 1964 Ford. General Assembly Plenary Ses-· 
The odd number of 391/2 people sions, which are attended by all was achieved by the inclusion in delegates, and meetings of the the packing of 6-year old boy, five Main Committees, which are After the first31, shoes removed, attended by one member from. arranged themselves on the floor each delegation. In addition, there and seats of the car, they began will be meetings of Model Secur­singing the Victory IvTarch. ity; Economic, and Social Coun:.. 
The rules were simple: --the cils, which include the delegates doors had to be closed at the end for t~e nations now on the actual of the packing-in process; there councils. could be no one in the trunk or Student government members under the hood and at least half · are attending a great number of 
the· body of a person had_to -be inside the car for him to count, (The windows were left open,) 
-· The whole thing was a pro­motional gimmick for the Mardi Gras concert Feb, 27, and the Ford Caravan of Stars, 
Locker Sales 
Final locker salesfor off-camp­us students will be tomorrow and ­Friday in the Student Govern­ment office, in the Student Cen­ter, from noon to 1:00, The rate of $3:00 includes a $1,00 lock 
_deposit which will be refunded at the end of a semester. 
Locker refunds from the first semester will.be made_ori those days only. 
wanted! virile men,vho w'ishto earn· $5.()0 · apiece 
The makers of By George! 
Men's IToiletries will pay 
· this magnificent sum if a description of your manly adventures (aided hy the · persuasive fra.grance of By George! of course) is pub-­lished in this or any other ­college newspaper. Tell us your tale in 100 words or less. Omit the gory details please. Send ii, with permission. to reprint in part· or whole, to By George! Men's Toiletries, 1290 Avenue of the -Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019. · 
-Need some success to tell about? See your local . druggist. Ask for 
By George! 
college conferences this year, much more than in pastyears; as part of the recent stress on stu­dent_ awareness of affairs out­. side the confines of the campus, 
Last weekend, Bill Seidenstick-_ 
er and Pete Seifert traveled to 
Miami University (of Ohio) for a 
conference on foreign · student 
projects arid programs fortravel · 
and-study abroad. 



POINT 
OF THE 


LANCE 
by Sargent Shriver 
-16 pages of illustrations 
At all bookstores. Cloth, $4.95. Paper, $1.45 
-Astirring book by the Director_ of the Peace Corps and the War on Poverty 
"This book combines the 
·vision and hardheaded; practical touch of its author, one of the ablest new figures in public life of our genera­tion. It is a book_ to give courage and hope to the anxious and fearful, and to confirm the faith of those who sec what a great-future lies before mankind. If Sargent Shriver's ringing words could be read by mil­lions -as I hope it will be ­it would advance the cause ­
-· of peace and tell Americans more about their true selves than any book I have seen ·, in many a year. It is a dis­tinguished and thoughtful book by a shining person­
ality." · 
-. DAVID E. LILIENTHAL "An extremely valuable re­source and contribution in the War on Poverty around the world and in our own backyard." -PROFESSOR PATRICIA SEXTON, New York 
University 
®~~R~-NewYork,R Y, 10016 
Semi-For~nal Dane~ To Be Held on Fri. Feb. 26, From 9:00 -1:00 p.m. in The LaFortune Student Center. tickets·_ are availahle 
Now i~ the'Social Commission Office 
of business economics and fi­nance, Graduate School of Busi­ness Administration, University of California at Los Angeles, will deliver a Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture here tomor­row. 
He will speak on "The Dynam­ics of Jhe Finance Function" in the libr:ary auditorium at 4:00 
p.m. 
Currently vice president and president-elect of the American Finance Association, Dr, Weston is chairman of .the department of finance at California, 
The annual lecture series inthe College of Business Administra­tion" was established in 1949 in honor of the. late John Cardinal O'Hara, C,S,C., first dean of the college, Archbiship of Philadel­phia and former president ofNot­re Dame,.. · 
Have you dated 

a Lyons Man_. 
Lately? 
Be Particular· 
. . 
...._...,_,..._..,.,_,..,_,.~~,,_,...,_..~. 


1: 
f' 
\ 

,,
.:~--r 
__,. -?'­
. ~ 


s 
......~ 


-~Jf . I 
-31'
rA ' 

.,. 
,.. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1965 . NOTRE DAME U.NIVERSITY Page] 


Bookworms Find Profit,------oouc-Ross----7 
·in Library Contest· I Priests Brothers 
nd

An expanded Undergraduate Stu­course of the library, and the 
dent Library Contest will be held winners will be· selected by the ·1 : ir:.:~~:ics •Parish Priests • Teachers : ~;~~::: at Notre Dame this spring under Library Council during its spring * Chaplains * Missionaries 
the sponsorship of the Notre meeting April 30 and May I. i * Writers * Social Workers·· Dame Library Council, ft was Awards to be made at a lunch­announced by · Rev. Phillip . S. eon lvfay 1 include the $75 Fa­IUn iced St,1 tcs France Brazil India Uganda 
Moore, c.s,C., academic assis..; ther· Hesburgh Prize and a se­Ghana
Icaly Chile Pakis can. 
tant to the president. .. cond place cash prize of $25. 
Spain Peru Liberia
Ii Canada Ila.iii

The purpose of the contest is to Other finalists will receive ~ $10 
stimulate a love for.. books and certificate of merit. an interest In collecting a per­The contest has been held for sonal library, The LibraryCoun­several years, but this year the t visit or phone (284-6:i85 or 284-6497):cil is an official university ad­competition is being extended to visory group made up of book undergraduates in all colleges, collectors, bibliophiles and au­and is being conducted for the · ' Father William Melody, C.S~C., St. J~seph Hall thors who assist Notre Dame in first time under the auspices of 
I........_..,,_,,.._.~-~........._.~.._..~~~.._...,_....~~~~............._.....--~~........
obtaining rare books and out­the Library Council. . standing collections for the _new 
' 

.. 
library, To enter the contest, the student should prepare a list of 25 books 

r---:--~-=-1%5MA:RDIGR..AS___l
which he considers to be the core of his personal library. Ac­companying this list should be an essay of not more than500words 
I
giVing his reasons for building up the' library and for selecting the books • . The student should deposit this material in a sealed envelope in 
.j
the office of his dean prior to April 2. The student's name and local address should appear only .f on the outside of the envelope. The contest is open to all under­graduates except those who pre­
I
viously won first prize. 
.• . Entries will be screened by a faculty -committee, with a re­presentative from each of the 
I
.· colleges, which will select the . finalists, Their book collections 
t 
will be · displayed in the .con­
:
Architects Sho,v 
pr;:;nts I 
SERENDIPITY SINGERS & THE OSCAR PETERSON TRIO 
IN CONCERT 
Saturday, February 27 
•Morris Civic Auditorium 
.;.. 
Interior Designs i TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE IN RM.·2B l
t 
For the first time, the annual . I architectural exhibit at Notri~ · 
I
Dame's department of archi­
I t
tecture includes examples of top professional · interior design materials to underscore the mounting need ·of collaboration 
i
between the two fields, accord­
i
ing to Fran Montana; F.A.LA., head of the architecture depart;­i ment. .. Featured in this special display 
I
of decorative arts will be the 
t
hand-screened wall coverings of · award-winning Chicagoan Jack t Den.st, · · · 1 
t 
The. exhibit of architectural 
i
drawings by the 160 students· of 
i 
. the department include both re­sidential and institutional struc­I tures. The display, open to the I public, will continue through Fri-· 
t 
· day. ­
t 
Shell Grant i 
' 
i 
The Shell Companies Founda;.. .'i tion, Inc., philanthropic arm of ' 
the Shell ·Oil Company and its subsidiaries, has awarded a · $7,500 grant to .Notre Dame. I 
Five thousand dollars of this I· grant is earmarked for the de;. I partment · of chemistry, where it f will be used for support of gradu­ate students and the purchase of I research equipment. The balance I may be assigned for the general 1 

· use of the school.· · · · t ··Some• 206. colleges and univer-·· i sities are benefiting from the 
l 
$1,541,750 aid-to-education pro.: ·. 
gram of the Shell Foundation. 
I 
· Two . Notre ,Dame alumni and ·t. athletes have donated $500,000 . ' I_· . apiece tO\Vard construction of the i 
· planned Athletic and Convocation , Center, Rev. Theodore M. Hes-. i ·.. ,:i~h, C.S.C., announced Satur~ .ii 
·;/~" . (See story on .the. center:,-_, on 
I
Student Center -I to 3 Tues. & Thurs. 
I 
MARDI GRAS RAFFLE, BOOKS MAY 
I· 
_STILL BE RETURNED ;; 
ANY DAY FROM 12 to 5 
RM. 2B of the student center 
DOLLY>&. DOBERMAN ARE LOOKING FORWARD TO HAVING YOU AS THEIR GUESTS 'AT 

*the Mardi Gras Ball 
*the Champagne Brunch 
*the Serendipity Singers ­.Oscar Peterson Concert 
I 
*the. Communion Breakfast 
*the Mardi Gras Carnival 
JOIN THE G.00D -LIFE!. 

ENJOY MARDI GRAS·-1965! 
. . . • · . · · . . • . . . 


:Page•8~) ,f.----~------~---------~--•---~~-----~-.. 

Epee 7_2. 7_ 5-4 . posing of his opponent in 1:03. ,j'
with 25 other entrants, took.the cond team in each weapon in 2 this particular match. 

.~~~:; i1~10 .2~-_15 4-5 t::~1:~t~;eF:f~ ~~:!!g Green /._1 .Challenge·.Nears Goal· ---,_..· ·· Reynolds IS-!2-Cyr's Barber Shop • ;J 
·· I Sweeps 
February 17, 1965 

Sheffield goes up for two more while Reed and Sahm look on, Voice photo by Pat Ford. . 
. . 
Swimmers Lose 4th 
Ohio University handed theNot­re Dame swimmers their fourtlf loss in six meets Saturday after~ noon, 55-40. Notre Dame col­lected two individual victories, both by sophomores, and won the freestyle relay. Bill Gehrke won the SO freestyle with a time of 
23.7, -and Bob }iusson won the 200 breastroke in a time of 
2:24.2. In the sixmeetsthisyear, Husson has suffered only one de­feat, that against Big-Ten.Cham­pion Bob Blanchard of Wiscon­sin. Members of the winning re­lay were Gehrke, Keith Stark· Chris Seigler, and John Blum 
Ohio had ·two double winners, 
Wilson Honored at MSU 
Last Saturday, the track team first spot with a 4:12:8, which is 
.traveled to Michigan State to only 0.6 off of his best of last participate in Stars 42nd an-year•. In the 21/2 mile medlay, nual relays, 'Approximately 550 · the Irish managed a third: Pat other athletes from 27 colleges. . Conroy. running the half mile in and universities in the Midwest . 1:56: Kieth ·small ~he quarter in were entered. 49:8; HaroldSpiro·the three quar-
Notre Dame was honored at the ter. in 3:02:7; and· Bob Walsh meet with the choice of. Alex . running the last mile in 4:12. The Wilson as the Relays Referee. performance by Soph. Spiro was The choice of Coach Wilson at pa:rticularly impressive;. as he this position paid homage to his was having only a mediocre sea-
past 37 years of coaching track son. Bill Clark ran the 2 mile·· match was a long and grueling at Loyola and Notre Dame. As in 9:02:8 to take second behind bout involving N.D., s All-Amer­the referee of the Relays, he had Jim Murphy of Air Force. Mur-ican Bill Ferrence. · At the end the task of interpreting and en-phy and Clark are now 2nd with Epeeists Tommy Buhl and Frank forcing the rules governing the Clark's win in the Nationals last Hajnik with 5-1 and 4-1 records meet and in general to see that year. Jim Lynch churned out a respectively along with foilmen 
·the events moved along smoothly. fine· 1:12:4 in the 600 yd. trials, Joe McQude (5-0) sophomore The tribute to Coach Wilson, a-but was unable· to place in the, Jack Carrol (4-1) led the Irish lorig with the fine performan~ · · finals. Larry Dimberger also . in the three victories. 
turned in bythe distance runners, came up with one of his best · Wayne State was handled easily fieldhouse this weekend. were the only bright spots in the• times in· the first< 1;2 mile of and the Chicago score was close 
Detroit WayneState Chicago .
meet for the· Irish. Ed Dean;: the 2 mile relay with a time of only because Coach Mike De-Foil 7-2 7-2 7-2. running in the open mile along 1:55:4. · · Cicco decided to start the·· se-
The $1,000,000 f~m the two anonymous donors added to the collections made previously brings to over $16,000,000 the total donated to Challenge 11 thus far. This includes $5,000,000 oftle$6,000,000 the Ford Foundation has pledged to the drive, The bulk of. the $20,000,000 Challenge 11 aims to collect will go towards construction of a new Ath­letic and Convocation center. The present field­house, constructed in 1899, has served NotreDame well, but today, its facilities are no longer ade.:. quate (witness the failure of the clock last Satur­day at the basketball game) and overcrowding has 
been a lingering problem. Increased enrollment · will only worsen the situation. When thenewcenter is completed the old Field House will be levelled. 
multi-pu.rpose_ structure· 
. . 
~esides _!Jeing a new• ....?~d house, the ~w b~l-~ng will also be a convocatio_n center with facilities f?~-commen_cemen: ~xerc1ses, academi_c and re-
hgi~s meetm?s, civic events and business andin-.~ house handball and aquash courts which will open 
dustnal exhibits. Thus the center will be a multi-to the.Notre Dame IXililic. · JUrpose st~cture and as such ha_s posed p~blems · · The · second domed arena, designed primariiy for for the architects who recently f1nisted their sev-track and field,· wili also include a full size ice enteenth plan, only to. have it re,jected in part. hockey rink , which; w~n not being used by the Ne~ertheless work ?n the center 1s scheduled to Hockey Club, will be .open to all students. Track begm before the Spnng of 1966. facilities will include a one-tenth mile track along TtiE: complex will be loca~d ~rectly east _of the with broad and high jump pits and an area for shot Stadium and west of Cart1e: Field. _(fhis 1s the .. put, javelin and discus, Within the track there will area now use~ ~or ba~d practice.) Uwill cons!~ of, be a regulation basebalI'infield for varsity and stu­three mai~ divisions. a basketball arena, a track dent use. Here ·also, there will be room set aside and field arena and_ a ~ntr11l co~plex. The total · for.wrestling, boxing, fencing and weightlifting along area of the three will exceed 400,000 square feet•. with a practice area for golf and batting practice. 
Jack Voelz and Terry Randall. Voelz won the 200 and the 500 freestyle events, · edging ·Irish Jack.Stoltz in both races. Ran­dall wori the 200 Individual Med-· lay and the backstroke event. Two valuable seniors; freestyle sprint specalist Ted Egan, and 
. diver Paul Devlin were unable to make the trip as both took a law exam. The team is still without the services of. captain Rory Culhane, who underwent an operation shortly before after semester break. Notre Dame will travel to Bowling Green Tuesday afternoon and will host Purdue · on Saturday. 
1\nc:~~: ~~~~mo j

12;000 capacity 
A central complex.will connect the two domed-a­renas. In this complex all the Athletic department offices will be housed and there will be meeting rooms for all club and varsity .sports, a trophy 
. room, Monogram Club headquarters and a lounge~ 
It Will also boast a projection roo·m and first aid 
room and numerous locker room and shower in­
stallations. for varsity and intramural sports; 
The whol_e center is designed for major varsity 
sports, but it also will provide facilities for minor 
sports and club sports as well as for intremurals. 
Its' only drawback is that itprobablywon'tbe com­
pleted until half of the present student body has 
grad1,1ated. 
.. central complex . · The domed basketball arena _wiil have a permanent 
seating capacity of 10,000 which can be expanded to 
12,000 with temporary seats. This arena will also 
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY Page 8 
Sahm Rallies Cagers 
By Mike Read . Walt Sahm, playing possibly the best game of his·college career, and Larry Sheffield, who put on 
probably the most fantastic dribbling exhibition seen in the field house since its erection some 67 years ago, led Notre Dame to their 12th win of the season and their third in a row as they bowled over highly re­garded Ohio University Saturday afternoon in i:he field house by a score of 94-86. Thiscoupledwith victories over ButlerandDePaul earlier in the week raised the season record to 12-9--well a,­hove the ,500 mark ofa week ago, Tli.e 6-10 Sahm, who had been sidelined for 3 games a while 

· back and whowas having a tough time coming back-around, really came into his own 'in this one. He connected for 27 points andl9 rebounds to • pace the Irish at­tack over the Bobcats, who on Wednesday night take on Miami (Ohio) for the Championship of the Mid American Conference and a berth in ~he NCAA tourna­ment. Ron Reed also played his usually fine game pumping in 18 points and collecting 22 rebounds 
Fencers Rebound 
The Notre Dame Fencing team 
brought their record to a 10-1 mark this past weekend with 
. victories ·over Detroit (17-lO), Wayne State (22-5), and the Uni­versity .of Ch.icago (15-12) at 
Bartlett Gym in Chicago. 
f'.oil again led all weapons with a 20-7 record over the weekend while epee followed close behind with a 19-8 mark. Theepeetotals over the weekend are proof po­sitive that the Notre Dame fenc­ing team does not have below · 
average epee squad. 
The most difficult match of the day was with Detroit. At one point the score was deadlocked at 9-9. The turning point of the 

Over the weekend, foilmenjoe 
McQuade . and. Bill Ferrence 
brought their records to 19-3 and 
17-4 respectively, while sabre-. 
man Mike Dwyer, who admits 
that he had an off-day, ran his 
record up to 22-S. · 
The Irish will take on Michi­· gan State and Ohio State in the 
of regulation time (5 m.in.), the score was'tied at 4-4-The.next . point would determine the winner. Ferrence and his Detroit oppo­. nent both 1 fti f gh i 
' e es, OU t t out
for another 7 minutes. Left-handed fencers are rare and their unique style usually gives them. an advantage. Both Ferrence and the Detroit fencer lost theirnor­mal advantage and found it hard to cope with one another. Fer­rence, · who very seldom stops during a bout, took two time outs in this one. Finally after several· near hits by the Detroit fencer, Ferrence caught his man on a mal-pa.rry, 
for a game high in that depart-. in Notre. Dame scoring for the ment. afternoon. Jesewitz Shines 
Irish blow leads In back up roles, Kevin Hardy The Ohio game marked the se,.. and Larry Jesewitz gave the two cond time in a week that Notre finest performances by reserves Dame had blown a sizeable .lead all season. Hardy made his en-· and in the end had to fightto pre­
trance near the end of the first half and hit 4 out of 5FieldGoals to help the Irish to a 53-39, half­time cushion. But it was Jese­witz, milking his initial appear­ance with 7 minutes remaining in.the contest, who gave thelrish · the drive they needed to contain · an Ohio rally which had cut a 24 point bulge down to 6. The 6~8 Chicago senior hit 3 out of 4 field goals and 4 for 4 at the foul line· in the space of about 5 min­
,utes to keep the Irish on top at a time when a collapse looked imminent. 
However, near the end of the· game it was Larry Sheffield who captured the show . and the ap­plause, of the. fans as he twice dribbled through the entire Ohio team in a tremendous exhibition of one-man ball control-Harlem Globetrotter style. He also col­lected 15 points to finish third 
.. S .100-102 South Main Street .~• -1
Slalom Opposite Court House ·l 
South. Bend, lntl.iana -.{

Larry Reynolds, a junior from ' · Fresno, California, won·. first.· 
place in the slalom . and giant slalom. events·· at a· ·ski meet hosted by Michigan Tech at Houghton, Michigan last Satur­day. Against a field of 43 skiers from 11 different universiti•es and junior colleges, · Reynolds· came from behind to win the slalom in his secorid run with a total . elapsed time of 53,0 seconds, Skiers from Notre Dame who al­so placed high in the final stand­ings were Dennis O'Niell from Cadillac, Michigan and Bill Shep.., , ard from Iron Mr;, Michigan. Competing for Notre. Dame for the first time were Bill Dionne from Van Buren, Maine, and Ralph Rutter, from Hailey, Idaho. In the total combined standings · Notre Dame place third, finish­ing closely behind Michigan Tech and Northern Michigan. La'st year Notre Dame placed first. 
Next week Notre Dame willface these teams and more· in the' 
N.C.A.A. Midwest Ski Champion­
ships, .·  which ..will be  held  at  
Deluth, Minnesota.  .  
.. Foto New~ Li tho  


serve the win. In the DePaul game the Irish were ahead44-3lonlyto turn around a few minutes later and find the score deadlocked at 
52 all. Here it was the _rebound­ing and scoring of Ron Reed that finally won it for Notre Dame. despite a hot scoring night for DePaul's Jim Murphy who hitfor 27 points, mostly from 25 feet out. Reed finished the night with 23 points and Sheffield• hit 18 in this 62-59 win over the Blue De­mons from Chicago. 
NCAA bid possible 
With 5 games left an NCAA bid still doesn't appear to be out of _,_.. the question. Fortunately, the Midwest isn't ripe with good in­dependents this year and a win in four of the last five games would give the team a final re­cord of 16-10. Of the final five .... games, the ·ones with Duke this weekend and DePaul one week 
later seem to be the two biggest 
hurdles. The Blue Devils, rank­
ed 6th in the nation, will defi­
nitely· be the tougher of the two · 
games, and a win in the De p'aul game seems much more .likely. Thus with ·a good showing in the Duke game (win or lose) and · victories in the other four,· the Irish will finish 16-10, andJohnny Dee may get that much hoped for 
NCAA bid after all. . 
Grapplers Spli_t 
Not're D~ine' s .wrestling team split a pair of meets in.Ohio last week-end, defeating . Cincinnati 

University 25-3 on Saturday after •.:. 

J 
losing 23-,5 WMiami University ~ ·I 
of Ohio the day before. Notre · ·1· 
Dame lost 7 of 8 matches. to ·.•."\..·_: 
Miami iind won 7 of 8· at Cin..:C · ­
cinnati, · ,,. ·. Heavyweight Dick Arrington was ,~J 'the only Irish wrestler to record /. ·i~j
two victories, pinning both of his ·. opponents. He needed only 1:24 
to pin his Cincy counterpart, ..... . 
Bob Carey, 137 pounder, also ...., :~ I 
scored a quick pin Saturday dis­
.,, j 
..., .}l f
.., 
~ 
·.·, 
N
.... .l 
.N 






