

Senate Approves-$12,000 Budget 
,_,... ,-. ,,,,_____ 

·•· 7t z · · •. · · ·· ·, · ,If .• y By Bob Lumpkins . 
~ ~ · · · · ·, and passed without question.! The StudentSenatepassedabud-Other larger expenditures, likeH get of $19,363,24 at its meeting of those of the AcademicCommiss-H November 2. ion, attracted only slight scru-­
... ,;, ;, r The budget was actuallyconsid-tiny, Along with these routine al­
•· •1;<.'.H ered, section by section, at two locations, though, were several )'.;~; j j meetings, the first onOctober27. controversial measures, notably '." / 1' overall, nearly nine hours were NSA and NFCCS, which occupied i_;, ,J f spent considering the measure. much of the Senate's time, 
·· ., This budget meeting, like all The National Student Associa­others, was marked by the usual tion question was settled at the picayune squabblings. · At one first of the budget meetings, after ­point, the Senate argued for 10 some 1 1/4 hours of debate. A minutes onwhethertoallocate $15 group of senators, ledby Bob Ste-or $20 to print up cards for the wart and Barry McNamara., at­Rider's Board; but on one mem-tempted to pull Notre Dame out tioned the next item on the bud-of the organization, largelyonac­get, $325 for the Student Govern-cotmt of its leftist political lean­men.t banquet, ings, 
. On the whole; however, debate However, strong backingbyStu­was relevant and thoughtful, and dent BodyPresidentJohnGearen, the meeting proceeded at a rea-who suggested that we stay in and. sonable rate, Many oftheappro-try to assume a position of 
.... priations, such as for Student leadership, helped the pro-NSA Government administrative ex-supporters win their$650 alloca­penses. were of a routine nature, tion by a wide margin. 
The appropriation for the Nat­ional Federation of Catholic Col­Student -Faculty ·"IfllJIIE lege Students was even more in­teresting. Their original budget, Lecture Series 
for $165, was drawn up and sub­mitted by· inexperienced SeniorNo,v Abandoned Delegate Tony Nieli.· The NFC CS 
Robert Gaensslen, Student Gov­organization then decided that this was inadequate, and secretlyernment Academic Commis­
sioner, recently explained why OF NOTBJE IIIAMiE substituted a $630 request in its the commission abandoned the place, Student-Faculty Lecture Series Volume 3, Number 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana November 4, 1964 Paul Meagher, who hadbeenap­
held in orevious years. pointed by Gearen to investigate This series will not be heldthis the advisability of Notre Dame's year because, Gaensslenexplain­continuing in NFCCS, presented
LBJ Wins Campus with 58ol % 
ed, "the lectures were poorlyat­this latter budget to the Finance tended, sometimes to a point of Committee, which promptly vot­embarrassment." Poor attend-By Buck McFadden results are truly representative cent) behind his party. Thereis, ed to drop out of the national or­ance also doomed the Student­of the student opinion.· then, a clear indicationthatthere ganization.
The results of the Notre Dame
Faculty Coffee Hours. But the The official tally sheet yields was a breakawayfromGoldwater To prevent this, National Presi­
Mock Election are. in and Lyndon 
commission will continue to some interesting statistics--and in the Republican ranks on cam-· dent Ollie Barber flew up from 
Baines Johnson is the unques­
sponsor "big name" outside loP-sided figures they are! Four pus. Louisville to plead the NFCCS tioned winner, The "voters" ~ ,1 Ml h N b d w This conclusion is contingent,
guest lecturers in its Dis­states-,v e,; c.~; e .; an • case before the Senate. At that 
gave L. B,J. a handy majorityover
tinguished Lecture Series, Va.--were evenly split and their however, upon the "voter's" un­time, no vote was taken, and im­
Senator Goldwater both in the
To provide an intellectual com­electoral votes discounted, Of the derstanding of the way the ballot mediately following Barber's ad­pensation for the absence of the popular vote (1347 vs. %9) and in remaining 46, Goldwater man-was to be marked in-order to dress, the meeting was adjourn­Student -Faculty Lectures, the t~e electoral :vote (3% vs. 105, aged to.carry only eleven: Ark.; truly reflect his will. ed. 
commission has been forced to with 270 required for election). Calif.;. Colo,; Ga,; 'Ha,; Mont,; Chairman of the Mock Election In the intervening week before devise ·certain specialized pro-Pe_rcentage -wise, Johnson re­. Nev.; Okla,; Ore,; s. Dak,; and was Al Diefenbacher, vice-pre­Monday's meeting, the Finance grams. One brings students to-ceived 58.l per cent of the pop.::: Wis. He failed to carry his home sident of the Academy of Politi­. Committee met again, and re­
gether into the home of a pro-ular vote a~ opposed to the 41,9 state of Arizona, Barry Gold-. cal Science, . continued on page 5 fessor for informal discussions, per cent given to Goldwater. 
water won only one of the "Big

Another provides fordiscussions The.Academy of Political Sci­
Six'' states, California (59vs. 35)

between students and: faculty to ence :e~orts that 51 per cent of · and only one Southern State,take place in previously desig-the eligible students O!l campus 
Georgia; this would seem to 

nated locations on or off campus, ca~ their baliots, Although the 
squelch the much-publicized

According to Gaensslen, these total nuJruJer of votescasts, 2316, "white· bachlash" theory, programs are specifically in-represents roughly onlyl/3 of the 
Most of Goldwater's support

tended "to appeal only to the se-total Notre Dame student body, 
_came from expected sources,

rious, interested student." the Academy is satisfied that the 
California and the Rocky Mount­ain states, In contrast, Johnson carried 35

Latin America Sessions 
states, including five of the "Big Six" states: Ill. (273 vs, 154}: N,Y. (165 vs. 140): Ohio (122 vs.
Begin Tomorrow in Library,_ 
90); Pa. (9'2 vs. 62}; and Tex. (36 · "Education and Social Change in on the International Exchange of vs. 19), The basis of this land-Latin America" is the theme for Persons. slide was a substantial splitting . the annual conference of the Mid-, Dr, Verne s. Atwater, director of ballots by the "voters." 
west Council of the Assc,forLa-of the Ford Foundation's Over-The ballots offered fourchoices tin-American Studies which will seas Development Program, will in voting: 1) straightDemocratic, open in thelibraryauditoriumto-speak at the conference banquet 2) specifically for Johnson, 3) morrow. Dr. William V.D' An-at the M~_rris Inn Friday at 7:15 straight Republican, and 4) spec­tonio of the sociologydepartment p.m. ifically for Goldwater. The taliy' is program chairman of the con-The conference will close Satur-sheet shows that 636 voted ference,' which is expected to. day morning with a session at 9:15· straight Democratic; 711 voted draw more than 50 specialists on . a.m. on "The Peace Corps and the specifically for Johnson; 506vot­Latin America, Political University." Dr. Fred ed straight Republican; and 463 The conference opens at 8:00 Mankiewicz, regional director of · voted specifically for Goldwater, 
'Trojan Women' StudiesWar 
p.m. tomorrowwithanaddressby the Peace Corps' LatinAmerican This means that whereas L.B.J. though it was executed well, the
Prof. Paul Montavonon."Educa-Programs, will be the speaker. ran seventy-five votes (11,8 per By James F. Fish steps reminded one of the stiff
tion for Development.'' At this The sessions are open to the cent) ahead of his pany, B,M.G. session Rev, Chester A, Soleta, public. ran forty-three votes (8,5 per Saint Mary's opened its 1%4 Egyptian figures found on the C.S.C., will extend the univer­dramatic season last Thursday tombs of ancient kings. sity's welcome. night ,vith a presentation ofTro­As the show progressed, the
Band Goes to Pittsburgh 
jan Women, by Euripides. TtTs choreography improved with the
At the session at 9:00 a.m. Fri­help of a silhouetted screen atthe
day, Dr, Martin Carney, of the basically a story of the aftermat"h back of the stage. The dancersBrookings Jnstitutiori, will add­of war and, in particular of the 

Instead of· Student Trip ' 
ress the conference on "Educa­effects of the Trojan War on the were behind the screen and, aided H women of Troy who foW1d them­liy excelient lighting techniques, 
tion in Latin America: An Em­
The Notre Dame Marching Band Mercy College, selves without husband or.home acted out the speeches of the cho-•pirical approach." At 10:45 Dr. 
will represent the University at . The band will leave Pittsburgh after the Greek victory. rus. The result was an impres­Raleigh Fossbr!nk, Purdue Uni­
Pittsburgh this· weekend. Di­at 1:30 Sunday 'afternoon, and is sive hazy, fluid effect. 
versity agricultural economist, Several variationswere made on 
rector Rober F. O'Brlenandband due· back on campus at 10 p.m. The taped music tendedto be too
, Will discuss "U.S. Universities the classical style of presenta­
president Ken McCarthyhavean­The band is.going to Pittsburgh · 1oud, several times drowning out 
as Catalysts for Rural Develop­tion by S,M.C.'snewdrarnaticdi­
ment in Brazil." nounced the itinerary for the 130 this year, rather than on the stu­. rector, Dennis J. Hayes. In an speeches. It was effective, how­man aggregation. dent trip, primarily in_ order to . ever
The conference will continue effort to achieve a unity with the in indicating changing 
The band will depart Friday stay within its budget. The final· moods, and made ·scenery
Friday at 2:15 p.m. with a talk by audience, the cast came on tothe 
afternoon on four Indiana Motor decision was made by the Vice­changes unnecessary.
Dr. Francis Young on "The U.S. stage from the.rear of the audi­
Professor in Latin America: A Buses, and arrive at the Penn­President for Student Affairs. torium, walking solemnly up the Marilyn Petroff did an excellent Sheraton Hotel in Pittsburgh at Last year the b2nd wentwiththe job in her role as Hecuba,. de­
Critique of the Fulbright Pro­aisles. 
gram," The speaker is execu­8 p.m. ·Band social chairman student trip to the Syracuse game There was no speaking for the posed queen of Troy, .. She did not Paul Reiter has arranged for a at Yankee Stadiwn in New York
tive secretary of the Committee first ten minutes: instead, sixfe­
coritinued on page 3

Friday evening mixer at Mount City, male_ dancers performed. Al-
Senators Kirschen, Bender, Crutcher, Madden. Murphy, Mulvihill, and Junior Class President John Phillips listen as John Da"ouzet speaks against continued participation in NFCCS. (Voice photo by John Sawyer,) 

Page 2 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana . November 4, 1964 

It's Oh So Beautiful! 
Almost twenty thousand students . have passed through Notre Dame since 1949 _when we were last Na• tional football champions. Every one of those twenty thousand men were hoping for what we have right now. Notre Dame is again on top of the polls; Notre Dame after so· long is a• gain NUMBER ONE. All those ques­tions about what happened to Notre Dame have been answered. Ara Par­seghian has happened to Notre Dame and it's the greatest! The seniors are lucky as the}' finish their year at Notre Dame on a tri~mphant note. The Freshmen are lucky because they are only beginning on the winning ways. And all those in between and all those outside are lucky to know that the Fighting Irish have a new champ­ion: Ara Pa~seghian. Do it! Do it, Irish! 
Alas The Lonely Music Man. 
Sunday after Sunday a poor little dia rector in Sacred Heart bravely contina ues singing by himself while a good share of the congregation stands with green song cards in their hands and soundlessly reads the words. 
· There are a lot of people at the Sac­red Heart Masses wh~ would like to . sing with that director but just have­n't dared to up until now. There are a lot who want to sing, and realize they should, but because. they feel they would be alone, or that their voi­ces _ aren't good enough, don't. 
These are -the many that now have 
-the community idea. They want to take part, but, they don't want to do it at the expense of looking foolish, 
· "f . l" d
or appearing anauca , or soun ­ing ..silly" or off-key-any numbe~ of personal reasons. 
They should take heart and chance it though--be a little braver next time rnuod--because if they don't they de­~y themselves their part in the-·pub­lic action of the whole Christian com­
. munity, and they deny their friends . the chance to actively participate with them. · 
Singing is a new and fresh_ oppor­
. tunity for you to actively join in the worship of the Mass~ Singing is an­other of the movements in active par­ticipation with friends that is more in the spirit of the Mass than mum­bling a lonely _rosary to yourself or burying your head in your hands after Communion. · 
Silent prayer has its place, certain­ly, but in the community participation and the community cclcbration of Mass, public prayer does too. Of course, there is also the organizer's respons1ibility to ·provi~e worthy songs, suited · to male voices and spirits, and these choices should be · 
. a matter of careful selection. 
In the coming Sundays be more than a '.'nose-in-your-missle-Catholic". When the chance comes up -again, try 
· a tune out, nobody expects you to be a Mario Lanza, after all. And be­sides, you might find that if you have courage enough to stick to it the fel­low next to you might tap you on the should~r and ask you to.pass him a green card. 

Nickel Flipping 
Without an .effective spokesman at the second Budget meeting of the Seu­dent Senate, NFCCS had its budget slashed from the re\\uested $630 to a compromise $80. As anticipated by many students, the question of No­tre Dame's affiliation with NFCCS was hotly debated by the Senate in the consideration of N FCCS's budget. And in the arguments that lasted over two weeks, it was finally. decided to continue affiliation for the first se­only, alloting $50 for national dues and $30 for administrative expenses. 

Tl~is important compromise is in­dicative of the criticism that has been leveled at NFCCS. Supposedly NFCCS is to be an organization that represents the opinions of Catholic college students on issues of nation· al concern. .It hol~s periodic Con­gresses and its members come to dis­cuss issues relevant to such things ·as civil rights, inter-faith dialogues, government legislation _etc. Yet this is its intended purpose, and is soon lost in muddled organizational proce· dures and ba~ic lack of leadership. John Gearen, a recent participant in a National Congress, maintained spe­cifically that he found no real leader­ship in the organizatio!l, that the pro• cedures it had were bottled up in the hierarchy of the Church members who were involved, that the fees for the 
conference were entirely too expen-. sive, and that NFCCS was out of most influential member of the organ­ization; ha·s a number of members in positions of importance who could, and would,· effect changes to_ bring the organization more in line with the new movements of the laity within contact with other national organiza­tions of college . students, NSA. 
In support of NFCCS, it was point­ed out that Notre Dame, long the the Church. These possibilities of change, an_d the present fact that NFQ CCS docs do some worthwhile activi­ries on· our campus (the Advent Sym• posium,. a very good travel bureau), persuaded the Senate to grant the or-_ ganization a chance to work on im­

. prnving its national and regional set up. 
Mr. Gearen promises, however, not to let the question of NFCCS slide by as it has in the past. He repeat• edly says that now is thetime of de­cision. Eicher we go wholeheartedly · into the thing and revamp this organi­zation that is clearly lacking in order and leadership (a great many of its members are small, Catholic girls~ 

· schools) or we discontinue Notre .Dame's large financial support en• drely. . , 
The action taken by Mr. Gearen, al­though harsh to those who have been ~orking for NFCCS for a long period 

· of time, seems to be a fair approach. Moreover, the close-concern he has :with this organization is indicative of the tight scrutiny the endre busi­ness of· allocating Student Govern­
. ment fun~s was g~ven under _his lead-· ership. Nothing was entirely brushed . along as has been done by adminis­trations in the past. Maybe th-e fi­nancial slush· that has been charac­teristic of Student Go~ernment will give way finally to some sound fis­cal responsibility. 
GNlll 


LETTERS TO THE .EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Last weekend, Homecoming, there was a rally on the porch of Sorin College. At that rally, such campus notables as Ziggy, Jimmy Cafeteria, Dr, Harvey Bender, · Dr. Carberry, and basketball coach John Dee appeared before a capacity crowd and gave brief, yet appropriate speeches, Yet, in the Voice issue following Home­coming noi: one mention of this rally was mare. 
In the issue of theVoicepriorto this, there·was a very excellent center section packedwithphoto.: 
graphs of activitieswhichoccur­ed during the u.C. L, A. weekend. Once again, all mention of the Sorin rally ,vas deleted from the 
issue and once again, not one pic­
ture. That rally was· complete 
with a great skit witnessed by many from all halls on the cam-. pus as wellasthetraditional bed-sheet poster which far outdid it­
self in artistry and imagination._ 
.Both were enough to rate _at lea.st 
a small mention in your paper. 
The rallies at Sorin have long
been a tradition at Notre Dame 
·  ·  
and very  few  have been dis­ 
appointing  to  those who have  

viewed them. 
We feel thatthe exclusion of Sor­in and its rallies from the Voice has not justbe.en an oversight, We also realize that the editor of the Voice resides in Badin hall as 
does its photographer. We certainly hope thatinthefu­
· ture issues of the Voice the edi­tor will lift his eyes beyond the walls of Badin and allow his 
photographer to least see if Sor-_ in rallies are worth a few pie­tures. 
L M. Coin & ~incerely, the Men of·Sonn 
THE 
¥0 

Published weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni-· versity of Notre Dame. ·office, Room 2A, Lafortune Student Center; Post Office Box I. · Board of Review•••••• Rev. Daniel 0'Neil,.C.S.C., John Gearen 
·EDITOR. • • , • ; • • , ••• , , ~ , , • , , ••• ,BARRYJ0HANS0N 
· Associate Editor:••• : •.•.•••••• ; .•••• , •• Grover Nix Ill News Editor:•• _. , • , •••• , ••••••••••••••• ,John Buckley Assistant News Editor:, • • • • • • • • • • • ••• ,Bob Lumpkins News Staff:...............Earl Guertin; Ken Krivickas, Terry Murphy, Dan Murray, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble,­Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick Veit, Alana McGrattan, Stephen · Feldhaus, Ray Foery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schleef, Bill 
Siska, Tom Anderson, Pat Strickler, Bob Campbell and Jim Elliott . Spoi;ts Editor: •.•.•••.•..••••••••••••George Kruszewski · Sports Staff:~ • ; , •••••• Joe Ryan, Mike Mooney, Mike Read, Dan 
· Ferguson, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger Business Manager:.•.•• , . , • · •• ; ••••• , •••••John 0'Hanlon Advertising Manager:. , • , • • • , ••• ·....·•••• ~ ••••Ken Socha Advertising Salesmen:. , • , • • • • ••• 1• • • • • Gregg and Roger Barron Copy Editors:. •••• , , • , • , ••••• , .• Bill Metz, Lou Bartoshesky Layout Editor:••••••.• ; ••••. ,,•••••••. ·... Dennis Kern Assistant Layout Editor:•••••• , •••.•• , • , ••• •Neil Bowen Layout ·Staff:. • • •• • •• , , •• ·••• ·_ bave Griffin Steve Vogel Proofreader:. • • . ·• • • • ••••••••••.• ~"John Radosevich Circulation M~nager:. • • • • • • • • '. ••••••••••••Ted Purvin 
Dear Editor: We at Badin are incensed that a picture of our first place Home­coming display was not carried in the VOICE. Is this simply an oversight or is it the policy of the VOICE to always print the pic­ture of a_ third place finisher? 
Harry IIU11;ter 
109 Badin 
(Ed: Ah, the joys of being an edi­tor. By the way, who isl.M. Coin, and who is Harry Hunter?) 
Dear Editor: 
"WE'RE STILL NUMBER ONE!' Some would call into question the leadership of Lyons Hall as the dominating force in 
social, academic, religious, and 
intellectual life· on campus. They 
would point with pride to toilet­. b'rthday cakes paper
paper 1 . , . ­
mache rockets, unconstitutional hall elections, and bogus "col­
lege'' designations as indicative 
of an enduring hall spirit. Feeble. 
attempts to em11late the tradi­
tional Lyons' spirit, · 
Let us remind you that it was Lyons Hall that brought the con­
cept of total hall commitment to 
the fore on the Notre Dame cam"'." 
pus. Hall spirit is more than a 
weekend affair. It means a last­
ing and enduring commitment to the ideals of community, friend­ship and comracerie, This is Lyons! Herein lies the secret of our successes; and herein lies the key to the retention of that trophy which indicates "WE'RE STILL NUMBER ONE!" 
Signed, 
. JT, JG, RJCl'vf, BMcD. DF, JK, PS CDL, P;\-1, (4th Floor) 



November 4, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana Page 3 
Mil Ball Planned For Nov. 13




Committee Aims to Improve 
On Friday, Nov. 13, membersof Kock -accomodations and Chuck 

Relations with South Bend 
A newly formed Student .Senate committee will try to ease the problem of Notre Dame's rela­tions with the South Bend comm­unity. Paul Knipper, who will be chairman of the committee, said that their first activity would be 
to circulate a questionnairetoall the restaurants, motels and other establishments in the area that could accommodate parties, Paul · Walker is Senate Chairmen of the committee, 
The questionnaire will include questions ofprices andcapacities 
Internat'l Comm. Sponsors Banquet 
The annual International Ban­quet, co-sponsored by the Inter­national Commission and the Christian Family Movement of 
· South Bend, will be held thisSat­urday at 7 p.m.Jn the NorthDin­ing Hall. All foreign students at Notre Dame are invited, The food and entertainment will be provided by the Christian Family group. Dr. Langford of--the department of modern languages is scheduled to speak at the banquet, The International Commission also presented an election-eve party on Monday in co-sponsor­ship with the Ladies of Notre Dame, a group of wives of the faculty, Dr. Bartholomew spoke on the political issues and the two-party system in the United States, 
Lockers in the basement of La­Fortune Student Center are still avialable to off-campus students. 
'Trojan Women' Cont. 
merely recite herlines, bufputin more than adequate feeling, a · quality which is often lacking in nonprofessional plays. Her per­..formance had a unifying effect in what otherwise might have been a play which took too long to ex­
press its point, 
Although the play was set in the 
ruins ofTroy'sancient power, the 
theme is timeless. It asks sev­
eral ·questions: "What will hap­
pen to the innocent people who 
are, by circumstance, engaged in 
war?" "What will happen tofo­
men and children?" Whether it 
is the Trojan War, World, War II 
or a future nucleur war, these 
questions still go unanswered, of rooms available for gather­ings, as well as policy on renting to Notre Dame student groups. If establishments indicate opposi­tion to N,D., partieswill be asked if they would change their policy with the stipulations that there be an adult couple acting as chaper­ones and/or a policeman at all gatherings; that the sponsoring club post a $50 ·deposit in case of da'.'llage; and that there be sentto them previous to the party a third copy ofthe student activitiesform each club has to fill out for the 
Campus  Organizations  Comm­ 
issioner  before  each activity.  
Another  aspect  of the  comm­ 

ittee's work will be its activityin seeking to i'mprove relations bet­ween Notre Dame and individual South Bend residents. To this end, a self-appointed committee of three local housewives met with Student Body PresidentJohn 

r~I~1~i~~A1 
i 
i 

SODA FOUNTAIN i 
Mon. lhru-Fri. t 
Gearen; Tom Kirlin, chairman of a Y.c.s. committee working on the problem: and other student ~presentatives and discussed! steps that could be taken. 
,Gearen outlined the work that students have done recentlytoaid the community, such as the tutor­ing program, volunteer work at local hospitals and the annual help week. 
The women asked what they could do to help. Suggestionsin­cluded providing places to stay for girls when they come up on weekends and inviting studentsto South Send homes for meals over vacations, and for the television broadcasts of · away football games. 
The first attempt at such COOP-' eration was made last Saturday, Twelve students visited two South Bend residences for the Navy ga·me telecast. 
Cy1·'s Barber Shop 
MICHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 100-102 South Main street Oppcsite Court House 
South Bend, Intllana. 

the three NotreDame ROTC units Schnepf -decorations. and their dates will march into 
The ND-Pitt game willbe shownLaFortune Student Center forthe on Big Screen TV Saturday in the

annual Military Ball, The ball, fieldhouse. Doors will open ap­
with the theme"Around the World in 80 Days ,, will last from 9 to proximately forty-five minutes 
I. ' before the game. Admission is 
Music will be proved by Teddy fifty cents for Notre Dame stu-Phillips and his orchestra, with dl"'en_t_s_________ 
TO STUDY AND 
REVIEW WITH 
KEYED TO YOUR TEXTS The Notre Dame 
Bookshop 

Colleen Lovett as featured voca­
list. One of the major events of 
the nall will be the crowning of the 
Queens of. Land, Sea and Air. 
The three servicescollaborated 
on the ball, Dan Duffy, NROTC, is General chairman: Kevin Daly, AFROTC, is executive chairman and Dan Boltz, AROTC, isbusi­ness manager. Committee chair­. men are: Gary Bernardin -public relations, John Murphy -tickets, Edwin Harringi:on -licity, oe 
DR.· N. FIZDALE 
OPTOl\IETRIST 

CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited · 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
I to 24-Hour Service. 
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477 
\ 1 
I
' 


Page 4 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana November 4, 1964 
Innsbruck Students Adopt Noll-Government 
. By Dick Veit at Salzburg, it was suggested that sion and action, then yield to any-
Innsbruck, Oct. 27 -A govern-no govemrnentwasactuallyneed-one wishing to discuss further ment for the Innsbruck group was ed. Since we are a fairly small business'. No scheduleforfurther established here last week, but it and close-knitgroup, all business formal meetingswasestablished: came about through evolution, could be discussed at dinner rather, a meeting is anytime rather than election. Forthenext: tables and handled byvolunteers, someone \Vishes to raise a point month w'e will have an experimen-.After heated debate and a close at dinner and calls for attention. tal government which will com-vote, the plan was adopted and, One bow to formality was made . bine features of pure democracy lacking leadership, the meeting with the election of Rags Ragen and Marx's classless society. soon fell into chaos. The proce-as social commissioner, who Will 
At last Thursday's meeting, dure soon evolved that whoever appoint a commfttee and hope-called to elect officers to replace raired a point would serve as fully arrange activities with the our temnorarv committee set i!O chairman for all related discus-local frauleins, 

Of course, from this height you can'tsee much de· 
tail, which makes the imposing expanse of the two main 
buildings all the more intriguing. Perhaps you can guess 
their functions; but it's also .what you can't see (and 
this is summarized in the adjoining column) that makes 
the David Taylor Model Basin a completely unique fun• 
damental and applied research organization -and a 
place you should seriously consider for your career 
as a professional scientist or engineer. As the Navy·s 
advanced facility for research into submarine, surface 
ship, aircraft and missile design concepts, the Model 
Basin can offer the young graduate certain specific ,,opportunjties hard to find anywhere else. 
We have already reaped one folksingers and/or musicians) 
benefit from our "non.'..govern-was joinedinprovidingentertain­
ment" with theestablishmentofa _ment by Mrs. Costello, an ac­
laundry service.· A local firm complished folksinger. Free 
handles our laundry for rates of-beer was served. 
ten as little as half those of the We were also recently informed Notre Dame laundry, by the management that, in order The following night we were to keep the pension clean, we Visited by Dr, Donald Costello, of would no longer be allowedtopo­the English Department, and his lish our shoes. We are to leave wife, and held a hootenanny in them outside our doors at night their honor, Our.talented group and they will return polished, ( We boast no fewer than six Free of charge, in the morning. 
mr~Riiamr-iRtliitiffii'ti:lt,1:B,~s I 
(D The Washington Clrcumferent;al Highway allows speedy ac• 1 cess to best suburban communities In the District of Columbia, 1 Maryland, and Northern Virl,linla. 
. ® HYDROMECHANICS LABORATORY facilltles Include this High. Speed Towing Basin almost 3/5 OF A MILE LONG, 50 feet wide, and 20 feet deep. This Laboratory Js concerned with speed, sta• billty, control and seakeeplng qualities of flo·atlng or submerged naval de&igns, and with fundamental naval hydrodynamics. 
@ APPLIED MATHEMATICS LABORATORY facilities Include the latest, largest computer systems, and feature the I.ARC, the IBM 7090, and a 1401, This Is BuShlps' primary computing fa• cillty, working on engineering, research logistics, and numerical methods.. Work carried on here Involves mathematic simulation of the life cycle of nuclear reactors; automatic caJculatlon of ship Jines; and applications of computers to management prob­lems, 
@ In this giant new Maneuvering and Seak~eplng facility, both fixed and free-running models may be tested under any . sea.state condition. You may also work with the High-Speed 
Phenomena Division at Langley Field, Virginia. 
® AERODYNAMICS LABORATORY facllltles Include several 'wind tunnels-ranging from subsonic through hypersonic at Mach IO-which are us~d to determine and Improve static sta­bility, control and heat transfer characteristics of helicopters, VTOL's, supersonic aircraft, missiles, etc. Air flow studies also · involve bomb design, bridge structures, aircraft turbulence when approaching carriers, and other government and private prob­lems. 
® The unique STRUCTURAL MECHANICS LABORATORY faclJJ. ties at Carderock are the new pressure tanks which permit the study, by means of large structural models, of the hull struc. · ·tures for deep diving submarines and deep sea research vehicles to reach all ocean depths. Additional Structural Mechanics Labo­ratory facilities are scattered throughout the 186 acres, and lnclude a trldlmensional Static-Load Frame, a Pentagonal Test Pond, Explosion Pits, and a 600,000•Pound Universal Testing Machine. With these facllltles, Laboratory scientists and engJ. · neers conduct studies aimed at Improving the hull structure and Increasing the resistance of the Navy's ships to enemy. at• tack.· This requires development of fundamental, theoretical ap­proaches of load and response, and development of engineering solutions based on the Increased understanding. A substantial portion of the ship protection research Is carried out at the Underwater Explosions Research Division of this Laboratory lo­cated at Portsmouth, Virginia. 
(J) The ACOUSTICS AND VIBRATION LABORATORY was just established to intensify research and development of ships of improved detection capability, and reduced vibrations and under­water sound output. fundamental and applied research In hydro• dynamics, structural acoustics, mechanical vibrations, and signal processing are supplemented by conduct of acoustic and vibra­tion trials, and development of acoustic· and vibration Instru­mentation. 
The OPERATIONS RESEARCH GROUP cannot be pinpointed as easily because it ranges over all the RDT&E activities at The Model Basin -hydromechanics, structural mechanics, aerody­namics, and applied mathematics..Special applications today are in .the fields· of naval architecture, ship silencing, ship pro­tection, and weapons effects •.• setting realistic performance goals for ships and submarines in view of probable environ• mental factors .•• handling special externally-generated pro­jects that tie in with DTMB capabilltles : .• and making recom­mendations to .the Technical Director as to Improving research methods and orientation. 
To staff these five operating Laboratories, we are seek• Ing college graduates with BS, MS, or PhD degrees In 
, Aerospace, Electrical, Electronic, Mechanlcal or Struc­tural Engineering; In Applied Mechanics, Mathematics, Physics, and Naval Architecture, 

1. 
Reach the$10,000to$12,000 !eve! WITHIN 4YEARS. 

2. 
Take graduate courses for advance degree with Navy help. 

3. 
Gain diversified RDT & E experience with the best 



INTERVIEWS 

equipment and facilities of their kind. "4. Work on research projects of recognized national im­
· Representatives from The David 

portance. · 
Taylor Model Basin will hold On­

5. Attain recognized professional stature sooner, at which point a number of futures are available. 
Campus Interviews 

Watch for the David Taylor Model Basin Interviewer when he visits your campus, or contact Mr. S. Di Maria 
Monday, Nov. 9th'. 

directly for information. Please contact your CoUege Place~ent 
I , , . , . . . , -~ 
Officer to arrange an appointment. 

David Taylor Model Basin/ U.S. Department !t~~.\!~o~! 
· . · · · . · . An Equal Opportunity Employer 

November 4, 1964 

THE VOIC);:, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Student Senate Cont. AIIE Conference 
The South Bend Chapter of the commended that the NFCCS or­American Institute of Industrial ganiz.atlon be given $50 toward Engineers is sponsoring a one­payment of their national dues. day management-industrial engi­This was the proposal that even­neering conference here Satur­
Symposium Discusses 

Biblical Theology ,
tually passed, although not before dav. another hour of discussion. -All students are inVited to re-
Notre Dame was host earlier of Pennsylvania; Dr. John Strug­
This time Gearen favored pull­

01 ~E REPAIR
this week to a four-day sym­nell, Duke University, and Dr.
ing out, as did Al Valkenaar, 

posium on Biblical Theology. DaVid Daube, Oxford University. 
123
whose NSA budget had just been 

Both religious and lay represen­Topics considered at the sym­
approved after a similar argu­

P'
tatives from numerous colleges, posioum were Biblical Theology, 
ment; They argued that NFCCS 

A
universities and religious or-Middle· East Literature and the
is hop'llessly entagled with the N

. ganfaations participated in the Bible, Gibeon, Qumram texts and
hierarchy, and noted its duplica­event which was held Friday the Holy land, tion of NSA efforts, Neither was through Monday, Notre Dame'sable to muster many votes, and Th.,ology department sponsoredthe• reduced budged passed ea sily, tbe. symposium. 

although Gearen insisted that it 

Guest speakers included Dr. Ro­was subject to a review next land DeVauz, O.P, · Ecole Bib­
'Q,eJl{JJIS& pf 'Visi{JII ""· semester if .NFCCS did not shape 
lique, Jerusalem; Dr. W.F. Al­Cr..jJn,n i11 D/tiu 
up. . 
bright, JohnsHopkinsUniversity:The Voice appropriation of Dr. James Pritchard, University$5000, largest single item on the 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES budget, also caused some debate, 
i;::;:;::;--;"i;:;-"'7~ 't , NOW IN SOUTH BEN~
and a great deal of confusion, as 
i Los Angeles f fHE SHERLAND BLDG. -132 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CEntral 2-1468
the senators attempted to give 
! $130.00
them newspaper the surplusfrom the projected $19,000 budget. The t S{~~::~~~~5e ', "(/Je..Ho11se of Visi(!lf lnr. final decision gave the Voice 
t 6:30 -B:OO Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave. -Chicago$5500. 
I~:--..:.°=.::.:__~1.:::. t 1=-------;:;;;;::;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;...:;;;;:;;;=======------;;;;;;;;;;;;:;i;il 


discount record shops 
COL· BIA REC RDS 
E E TREC DSALE> Last Chance TcTake ·dvantage of This Fabulous Offer! 

•POPULAR. G BARBRA STREISAND 
o ANDY WILLIAMS 
•INSTRUMENTAL· 
ofOLK
o TONY BENNITT · · 
• RAY CONNIFF • JAZZ 
• CHRISTY MINSTRELS • BAND ·o JOHNNY CASH. . • VOCAL 
o RAY PRICE· oCOllNTRY · 
o JERRYVALE o ·ROCK 'N ROLL 
G

• DAVE BRUEBECK CLASSICAL' 
o ALL OTHER o SOUND TRACKS COLUfJIBIA ARTISTS o B'WAY SHOWS 
El . 



RAYCONNIFF 
·PLEASE COME IN ·AND BROWSE

.INVISIBLEii 
THROUGH OUR THOUSANDS OF




!tBII 

ALBUMS-SATISFY YOURSELF THAT 
THIS IS A NO GIMMICKS GREAT VALUE NO TRICKS 
unt 
rds 
Open Mon., Thm., fri. 9:30 to 8:30 
Tues., Wed., Sot. 9:30 to 5:30 -·
214 So. Michigan St. .Ph. 233-4585 

· SALE ALSO INCLUDES,
DIAMOND-NEEDLES ­
TOP HITS
Capitol ••• Mercury ••• MGM ••• 
.Sale . 3ss ,. 
Liberty ••• Atlantic ••• Dot ••• 45 
sac




Price. 

R.P.M•.
Decca ••• Verve ••• All Labels 
Page 5 Planned Saturday . 
gister fortheconferencewithMr. Weger, P.O. Box 1413. 





"DACRON"® 

makes 
the 
campus scene 
with Higgins and the combination is Big On Any Campus. Tailored in traditional Yale and Trim Fit models of 65% "Dacron"* polyester -35% combed cotton for wrinkleless neat looks and carefree wear,··· at Finer Stores everywhere. 
•Dupont's registeredtrademark 


··---..as::..... 

Page 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana November 4, 1964 

Irish Snowfari After Panthers 
No.I Rating On Line 
,.As has been the case with so for them at halfback, ashasBarry many of our opponents this year· McKnight at fullback. "Crabtree Pittisatearnthatlargelydepends is a real good halfback," says on one man," sayslrishoffensive Hurd, "but at times this year he line coach Dave Hurd. "If their-has hurt them more than helped quarterback Fred l'vlazurek isef-them. He has a tendency on punt fective, then Pitt goes." Pitt's returns to give groundinorderto problem this seasonhasbeenthat pick up blocking. Onthewholehe Mazurek has not always been ef-hasn't had much successwiththis fective. There are a number of maneuver, Pitt as a result has reasons for this not all of which frequently found itselfinbadfield 
stem directlyfrom Mazurek him-position," self. Pitt's coach ]ohn Micheloson 
One of the reasons largely con-has another good quarterback in jectural, is that ivlazurek is in-Kenny Lucas. Lucas is more of jured. Pitt has said nothing, but a passing quarterback than Mazu­a number of observers feel that rek. Last week against Syracuse, Mazurek might have a broken toe. the Panthers unveiled a new of­The way he runs on some occass-fense, which the Irish will un­ions seems to verify this belief, doubtcdly sec a lot of th.is Satur­More important, however, and day, InsteadofalternatingMazu­certainly more substantial, has rek and Lucas at quarterback 'as bea: :i the loss of Paul lllartha he had done for most of the anr'i Rick Leeson throughgradua-se:'lson , ivllcheloson switched tion. The latter two along with l'vtazurek to halfback and put Lu­Mazurek led Pitt to a 9-1 season cas at quarterback, This should last year. The loss of Mart'ha and help both their running :'lnd pass­Leeson has cut down on Pitt's ing-game. running game, and at the same The lineistypicallyPitt.Though time lessened r-..tazurek' seffecti-weak at ends from tackle to veness as a pass arid run threat. tackle, theyare physicallybrutal. "I'm becoming more convinced Lead by guard RayPopp, Pitt will all the time that you can't depend throw up against the Irish the big­solely on a passing game in col-gest line they have seenthissea­lege football. You've got to have son. some running to go along with it," Pitt isa betterfootball team than says Hurd. As a result Pitt has their 2-3-2 record indicates. been trying to find a way to re-"All theyneedisonegoodgame." place Leeson and Martha all year. says Hurd. Eric Crabtree has doneafairjob 


Basketball 

Opens Dec. I 
by,Mike Reed 
Heading into their third week of practice, the Notre Dame basket.:. ball team continues preparation for the 1964 -65 season which opens on December 1st against Lewis College, 
Ever since he began coaching, Coach John Dee has been a firm believer in quality rather than quantity and thus is in favor of a small squad. Consequently, Dee has gradually trimmed the squad and is now down to the desired siz.e of 12 men. His plans are to keep a 12 man squad throughout the season and to dress all l2for home games while traveling with only 10. ­
At present the squad is compos­



ed of six seniors -Sahm, Reed, Sheffield, Miller, Dudgeon and Jesewitz -fourjuniors-McGann, Bornhorst, Kevin O'Neill and Billy .O'Neill -and two sopho­mores -Bob -Bentley and Jim 
Monohan. 
During the first two weeks of practice, Coach Dee has placed great emphasis on fundamentals and the building of a sound de­fense. Last year's team gave up 
83.9 points per game, and Dee ho:pes to improve this with the institution of a strongmanto man defense; · 
On offense, Dee will employ a basic single pivot offense with a great amount of stress on the fast break. So far, Sahm, Reed, and Jesewitz have all been taking turns at the center position and have been workingwell, Reed and Sahm also can workfromthefor­ward slot, while Jesewitziscon­centrat!ng mainly on working at the c~nter position. 
The Notre Dame AROTC rifle team bested Loyola in Chicago Sr.mrday by a score of 1383 to 1361, Chuck Steiner was the high shooter for Notre Dame with 290 for 300. 
One of the heroes of Sat­urday's conquest of Navy was Nick Eddy. Nick broke loose on a screenplay from John Huarte, and ran 74 yards to put the . Irish on the score­board. (Voice photo by Bill McGuire.) 
This is a delightful story of a frightening Halloween afternoon 

. for some sailorsfromAnnapolis, Maryland. The sailors travelled to Philadelphia's J, F.K. Stadium disguised as football players to do some trick or treating wuh some Irishmenfrom Notre Dame, Indiana. To their dismay, it was no party, but the Irish had a bag full of surprises for them, The midshipmen even pulled a shot­gwi on the Notre Darners, but the Fighting Irish kept all the am­munition for themselves. When the "Halloween'sDayMassacre" was over, Notre Dame had 40 points worth of booty, and there was none left for Navy•. A 0-0 deadlock inthefirstquar­ter had many Irish fans thinking of lastyear's35-14fiascoatSouth Bend. As the second period o:pen­ed, Navy quarterbackRoger Stau­bach had brought his team inside the Irish 10 yard line, and was knocking at the touchdown door. Roger and the middies could not get any closerall day, Thedeluge commenced when Staubach was hit by Don Gmitter, and fumbled to Alan Page on the third play of the quarter. Navy was down and out aftertwo quarters of play asthe Irish scor­ed three touchdovms, andJoe Az­zaro replacing injured Ken Ivan · .kicked three of his four extra points for a 21-0 half-time lead. 
A 74 yard dash by Nick Eddy fol­lowing a screen pass from John Huarte, A Haurte to Snow bomb­shell covering 55 yards and Bill Wolski's one yai".(lpltmgeclimax­ing an 80 yard drive did the dam­age that sunk Navy before they could begin to fight, 
On the initial march of the third period, Joe Farrell scored his second TD of the seasonfrom the one yard line. Azzaro converted, and the score read:ND 28Navy0. 
ln the final 15 minutes, Huarte found Snowv,ithopenannsforan­other six points and it was 34-0. Finally, to give Coach Parseghian icing on his six candle cake, he discovered the depth he wanted. With. Sandy Bonvechio, Dan Mc.:. Ginn, and Bill Zloch leading the attack, Dennis Conway scamper­ed 25 yards to wind up the scor­ing at 40-0. 
So, Notre Dame won their sixth straight without a defeat or tie for the first time since Frank Leahy' s 1953 (9-0-I) team did it. Jim Carroll, Tom Kostelnik, Alam Page, Tony Carey, and all, re­corded a well deserved second whitewashing. The. rushing de­fense allowed Navy a meagre 48 yards, and Mr. Carey pulled in his seventh interception to halt a fourth period Navy march at the Irish 27. Heleadsthenation's defensive backs in this depart­ment. Quarterback John Huarte 

Harriers Blitz· Hoosier Best PRESENTING ... 
by Dan Ferguson 
"Hard work.during the preced­
ing week slowed the team". said 
Cross Country Captain Sill 
Clark. Their speed, however, was 
devestating as far as the other 
fourteen teams in the Indiana 
State Meet were concerned. 
At the halfway point in the four 
mile race; Notre Dame's seven .entries led· the pack by some thirty yards. The gap continued to widenonallbutlndiana'sTerry Shy who spoiled the Irish shutout 
by placing fifth. 
Bill Clark paced the rout taking first with a time of 19:35. Behind him was Bob Walsh in second at 19:45, Mike Coffey in 19:56, and Ed Dean at 20:06. Larry Dim­berger was sixth, Rich Fennelly seventh and Don Bergan eleventh, 
Coach Wilson explained the rea­son for the strenous practice session as preparation for the three big meets. The first of the big three come within four days of each other. In Chicago, the Ir­
. ish face a stem test as they take ori the midwest inthe Central Col­legiate Conference Meet, Novem­ber 13, Then three days later,· they'll be in New York to defend their crown at the ICCA tourna­ment. 
Junior Ed Dean's amazing re-. covery bas given the team a real morale boost. The possibility of a National Championship is once again held out before them. With this injection of pride, theircon­ffdence will make them real con­tenders. 

connected on 10 of 17 pass at­· tempts for 274 ,yards and three touchdowns. JackSnowcaughttwo . touchdown passes, and his seven 
· 
. 

catches in all tied a Notre Dame mark of 41 recertions set by Jim Kelly in 1%2. 
In all fairness to the two service academy oponents, they tried everything to stop us. AsdidAir Force, Navy held the Irish in the. first quarter. Staubach used the short punt formation with won­derous ability to check the on­rushing Notre Dame linemen. 
.
,. 
one dollar ... 
will lay-a-way any item in our store until christmas. 
diamonds watches 14,K gold jewelry 
fashion jewelry 
we invite ycur account 


<..\· . I)
oaco\>-8,--¦ . 
your diamond center 
121 w. woshington sl. south bend 
between michigon & main 
LIVE IN CONCERT 


Office  
$2.00,  $2.50,  . $3.00  
50¢  More·  at  Door  


· Foto News Litho -Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 



