


~f 
~ .•. 
j 


1fllJJIE 

OJF .NOTBE JI/JAMIE 
Volume 3, Number 7 Notre Dame, Indiana November 11, 1964 


N.Do Freshman 'Arrested' 
While Watching Polls 
A Notre Dame freshman was cial's know he was there, When a many attempts to vote by people taken iµto custody by Gary, Ind., voter is challenged, he may still who were not registered. ''There police as a result of his parti-vote, but to do so must sign an was one girl who could not have cipatlon In a Young Republican affidavit that he Is a legal voter. been more than 16. She gave the poll-watching project in Lake Signing afalseaffidavitisacrim-name of a woman-registered as County, Indiana, last Tuesday. inal offense. 60 'years old." Several people Tom Moore, from River Forest, Moore says that this was the tried to vote twice, he said. Ill., .vohmteered for Operation first time that anyone had chal-Throughout the morning, offi­E agle Eye, and was assigned to lenged a vote inthat precinct, and cials higher and higher in the Gary's 19th precinct. He was he faced constant argument with ranks of the Democratic organi­told by the organiz.ers of the poll-the voting officials and with local zation in Gary began coming to watching project to challenge one Democratic leaders. see him. First was the district or two voters, just to let offi-But, Moore said, he challenged chairman, then the ward commit­
teeman. Occasionally Moore would step

Senate to Debate 
outside the stuffy polling room, and a crowd gathering outside would heckle him. A groupoflo­


Relations with Cuba 
cal steel workers threatened to The Student Senate of. Notre utes. At 11:50 debate willendand beat him up if he continued chal­Dame will begin debate on na-the Senate will recommend an lenging voters, 
. tional and international topics at action chosen by vote, By noon, Moore had challenged their meetings, The topic at Jed ~ee explained, "We are around 50 voters, of whom only a their next meeting, Nov. 23, will aiming at a two fold purpose with few had signed affidavits thatthey 
be the resumption of diplomatic the debates. We hope to place were legal voters, and trade agreements with Cuba. Notre Dame on record on the var­Around 3:30, the mayor, dis­
A special subcommittee under ious issues. Primarily though, trict attorney, assistant district . the Policy Committee and headed we want to develop in the student attorney and two plainclothesmen by International Commissioner body a. real interest in interna­entered the polling place, The Jed Kee, will decide what topics tional affairs. \Ve hope that stu­district attorney acted as a mes­will be considered. Represent­dents will present their views on senger· between Moore and the ing liberal positions will be Al these controversial issues to mayor in· a discussion that took Valkenaar and conservative po­thei.r hall senators and that the place. Technically, the mayor
sitions, Bob Stewart. senate can be a real sounding never talked to Moore. Then the The debate will begin at 11:50 board for student opinion." two plainclothesmen stood on 
p.m. at the senate meetings with Topics to be discussed in future each side, took Moore by the arms a general introduction to the senate debates will be birth con­and aske~ him to go with them, topic by Kee, ValkenaarandSte­trol, the House Un-American and keep quiet. As hewasenter­
wart will then begin debate with Activities Committee and the lng the police car. Moore called each speaker limited tofive min-draft. 
Scott Atwell assists Jim Parker' tviih bis math homework. · Atwell is one of 150 Notre Dame students who spend an hou_r weekly in 
Tutoring Program Priest Discusses Family Planning 
Requires Volunteers 
Rev. Raymond Potvin, Associate Professor of Socilology at the Ctholic University of America,The program for tutoring South students from Holy Cross School wiU speak on "Family PlanningBend high school students ha snow of Nursing were recruitedforthe and Christian Conscience" to­expanded to include 150 tutors program. These student nurses morrow at 3:00 p.m. in the Li­. from Notre Dame andanotherl25 and additional St. Mary's students brary Auditorium. The talk isfrom St. Mary'sworking·inl2dis­will help the clubs to provide the sponsored by the department oftricts, And the project is still 15 to 25tutorsneededto staffeach 

sociology, · 

growing. new district. 
Father Potvin is presently en­Three new tutoring districtswill 

According to DuFour, the South 
gaged by Princeton University,open.in the next two weeks, Dick 

Bend school board will be able to 
doing research on a College Wo-.

DuFour, recruiting chairman, is 
· use asmanytutorsasNotreDame 
men Family · Siz.e Preference· asking for campus clubs to take and the other schools in the pro­Study, . 

over these areas. Presently the 
gram provide. Any club or indi­
He received his MA. and Ph.D. 

Glee Club, CILA, NFCCS and the 
vidual , wishing to participate 
degrees from CatholicU,; andal­Colorado Club sponsor their own 

should contact hhn in 105 Walsh 
so studied at the Universities ofdistricts, · hall, Louvain and Brussels, He hasLast week, a large number of .been teaching at C,U, since 1957. 

Tillich Praises Council For Emphasis on Faith 
The Ecumenical Council and the discussion. Pope John the XXlll were.both 
After an hour of panel dis­praised by eminent Protestant cussion, the audience was allow­theologian, Dr. Paul Tillich, of. 
ed to participate. Questionsthe University of Chicago Divi­ranged over ideas of the Sacra­nity School, in a panel discussion ments, myths of the Bible andhere last Wednesday. 
the relationship between God andHe gave the plaudits for the part 
Man.
both played in the "emphasizing Dr. Tillich returned the sameof the 'experience' of faith." Dr. 
night to participate in a secondTillich holds that belief is like discussion, mainly for thehistorical facts astrue because of 
faculty.
confidence in someone's writing while faith goes deeper in that it is an "experience" that goes on within a person. 
The peppery and smiling Dr. Tillich also placed great stress on the necessary "de-literaliza­tion" now goingonwithingChris­tianity and the Catholic church. The discussion began with com­mentary on Dr. Tillich's new book, The Dynamics of· Faith. Questions were asked by Rev. Burrell, philosophy dept. Dr. Crosson, general program, Dr. Meagher, English, and R. Bradt, a graduate student in theology. Rev, Albert Schlitz.er, head of the theology department, moderated 
Student Handbook 'to be Coff!;pleted This Semester· 
A Student Handbook for the en­each year withoutthenecessityof tire Notre Dame student body is reprinting the entire book. now being prepared by the Stu­Beginning with an .introduction dent Affairs Commission, ac­by Father Hesburgh, the Hand­cording to Marty Stamm, the Stu­book will explain the aims of the dent Affairs Commissioner, University and glance back at the 
In a committeemeetingheldthis traditions of the past, Following week, the outline was agreedupon will be sections on the physical and assignments given out. Plans layout, the administration, aca­were also made to have the hand­demics, the Honor System, and 
book completed by the end of this religious life. semester, For the project a bud­A large portion will be devoted to get of $1975, has been granted organization's, social life, St. 
from the administration and$500 Mary's College, and athletics. from the Student Senate. Discussions of residence living, 
Earlier this year, the Student rules, and off-campus living will Affairs Commission put out a also be given. twenty-page pamphlet for fresh­A final section will contain a man orientation, called " Failte' listing of campus telephone num­-Welcome," Articles were de­bers, office hours, and where to ~ 
signed as a basic summa·ry of stu­go to get something done. dent life for the incoming fresh­Marty Stamm will edit the Stu­man. . dent Handbook. He will be aided 
The proposed Student Handbook by Executive Editor Tim Kristi, will contain about fifty or sixty Managing Editor frank Ofner, pages of glossed paper in an imi­and Copy Editor Paul Rafferty. tation leather coverwitha plastic Rev, Lau~nce Broestl will serve ring binding. The ring binding as Moderator. wiU all~w additions t<;> _be made 
N.S.A. Sponsors Holiday Fast 
The National Students• Associa­Here at Notre Dame, the plan tion is sponsoring a "Thanks­has the endorsement of Father giving Fast for Freedom" to aid Hesburgh and the administration. 
.the . underprivileged Negroes of Students can sign up at dinnerto­Mississippi, morrow or Friday to take part, The program, which has the · backing of all the major ·civil 
Grad Student Hurt
rights groups, calls for college students across the nation to skip 

In Car-Bike Crash
their evening meal on November 
19. The proceeds from this sac­A Notre Dame graduate student rifice are are to be channelled 
was reported in satisfactorycon­through NSA to the Congress of dition at Memorial Hospital Fri­FederatedOrganizations (COFO), 
day following a car-bicycle crash which will use ittopurchase sur­Nov. 3 in the three-hundred block plus food. of W. Angela Blvd. 
Last year, some 45 colleges 
Patrick George Boisvert, 23, a participated in the initial Free­· graduate student In the physicsdom Fast, raising over $10,000; 
department, was struck by a car and 600 families were fed for a 
whlch had crossed over the cen­week with.the food that was pur­ter line, while he was riding his chased. bicycle home aroundllp.m. Bois­
vert lives offcampus at1037 Hud­

Lecture Series 
son Ave., and reportedlyhad been studying at the university~ HeThe JuniorClassis inaugurating suffered a fractured left thigh and the Pope John XXIll Lecture ser­lacerations to his head.
ies with an address by a Jewish. 
South Bend police saidthe driverrabbi tonight. Rabbi Maurice of the car, lvlichael L. Vance, 19,Parzen will speak on "The Com­of 1137 E. Wayne_St., wasticketed mon. Path: . The Judeo-Christian for driVing on the wrong side cfTradition" at 8:00 p.m. in the the street, Vance was. taken to Met11orial Library Auditorium. A Memorial Hospital with Boisvert, sub-title for Rabbi Parz.en' s talk 
hut was released followlngtreat­
is "Prejtidice and The Great Mis­ment for lacerations to his fore­understanding.'' 
head and left thigh. 

Page.2 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana November·u, 1964 

Eight out of the last eight. Ten but HATE STATE! The Irish have out of the last cle\'en. We may be been waiting for this one for a long 
Christiari, but we can't do anything time. And victory shall be ours. 



It's About Time 
Lase year the VOICE proposed the establishment of a Student Faculty· Administration Board at which the members of student government could present, in open session, the propo• sals adopted by and for the students. It-was felt that this Board would e­liminate the problem of the lack of di­alogue between the three bodies (ad· ministration, student, and faculty) on areas of interest to the students. 
The Board would discuss the mer­
its or faults of various pieces of leg·, islation adopted by the Senate, and would giYe a forum in which. the Ad­ministration could make its will known specifically on these issues. PreYiously the acceptance or refusal of legislation by the administra_tion rested solely on the personality of the Student Body President and his ability to represent student. opinion. 
Well the Board has been estab-. lishcd and has held its first meeting. Two in<;mbers of the administration, two members of the faculty, the SBP and another student representing the issue at stake, met and discussed the p_roblem of Stay Hall Residence. 
Many hopes have been placed in this Board. We of the. VOICE are glad to see its final establishment. With th,is forum, perhaps the· Student Senate .can get on with· the important business of passing social legisla­tion benefiting the students directly, and ·forget its time consuming con· ccrn with its own mechanical well­being. 
The Case for Hockey 
By Dan Ferguson· 
The hopes of organized hockey took a punch befow the belt re­cently when the;Athletic Board turned dov.-n the .club's applica­tion for the !'ninor sports pro­gram. 
Participation .in the program would have meant a transfer of responsibility from the Vice Pre­sitient in charge_ of Student Af­fairs office to the Athletic de­partment and ''Nappy" Napali­tano, Also went the hcipe of a limited buaget and the· use of athletic facilities available on the campus--both assets of the pro­gram. 
Rugby, Soccer;. Lacrosse and competitive Skiing are all oper­ating under. the '.new system, a fresh concept at N.D. born from-the pattern here_ that before a sport receives recognition from the University it must prove it­self by ftmctioning at a club le­veL Swimming and wrestling survived long probation periods before attaining· varsity status. The main pre-requisite ls one year of competition on an inter­collegiate level. 
Last year the hockey club play­ed a schedulethatincludedgames with lllinois, Northwestern, Port Huron and Lake Forrest. They were led to believe that theywere undergoing the required year of probation. But this year, be­cause of the Athletics depart­ment' s decision they are liter­ally out in the cold. 
Many maintain that this is "un­justified". For reasons, they list the facts that team members furnished their own equipment (approXimately $125 each), prac­ticed duringtheweekfromlOp.m. to midnight and played all their games away, a rough demand on study time. 
Dr. Lauer, professorofcivilen­gineering and club moderator, has nothing but praise for the group. 
"Their feat· is·really and truly remarkable," he says, "These men showed incredible fortitude and desire in overcoming their handicaps, · I don't believe that you can ask any morefrom them. Given time and experience, I'm sure hockey ,Yill prosper.'' 
Everyone, · however, doesn't share this opinion. Herb Jones, business manager of athletics puts it like this. 
_ "Hockey[ A lost cause since I've been here and th~t•s forty-:­some years. We've tried before and have had ice-rinksinnumer­ous locations, even fished ~ne out of the_ lake. Tlie weather in this area is just not suitable,". Weather-wise that's a legiti­mate complaint. But, organized team hockey is rarely played on natural ice~ven in Alaska. I-_Ioward Parkisan artificial rink serviced by the South Bend Park Commission.. Members of the club work there as rink guards 1n order to pay for ice time for the team, Officers of the club approached· tha commission four years ago whe_n the club was or­ganized. They were refused un­til last year. · During this time, no official intercessionwasmade 
the school's position. Andacon­versation with Napalitano sheds more light on the picture. 
He says, "Now hockey lacks good practice facilities and they don't play home gai:nes. We feel that the Midwest doesn't offer the same opportunity for competition as it does for other sports." 
This is all fine, but this writer was part of an audience that tist­ened attentively as Edward Krause, Athletic Director, out­lined the advantages of the pro­posed Athletic and Con.vocation center and the promised hockey rink it included. 
It doesn't reem to be irrelavent to suggest that the current mem;. hers of the club are making the. sacrifices demanded so that a functional, efficient, hockey or­ganiz.ation is available when the new fieldhouse is completed. 
Also, the team has acquired the services of a permanent coach, Richard Bressler, who has con­siderable hockey experience.His enthusiasm is anythlngbutdamP­ened by the club's restrictions. Indeed, both he and the club are encouraged by the response and offers of assistance from other schools. These have. been both vocal and monetary from the Air Force Academy, Illinois, North­weatern, Ohio State, Wheaton, Lake Forrest and other teams on the schedule. 
Hockey, as it now stands, has a long way to go before it "makes it big" at N.D. But you can't a­
-on their behalf, and even the ar-. void the facts that students have rangements for the current sea-accepted, organized and support­son were conducted between club ed hockey, and that decisions and city. made by the Athletic Board are These difficulties encountered not irrevocable, 
· by the· club. somewhat vindicate 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor, to do it, but only a few do, and . Dear Editor, -Thanks a lotforhavingtheVoice. it isn't abused. -Upon reading your latest publi­airmailed here. The one article The Voice looks ·good. My high cation, I noticed something very that I -wrote aroused more con-school paper switched to offret peculiar about your back page:to troversy.and discussion than all my senior year, andl'mconvinc-be specific, the two pictures of six issues of the Scholastic com-ed that the process has a built in the Notre Dame football team in bined. tendency toward typographlcale-action. .So you guys.thought you 
The subject is student drinking. rrors. Even when you correct could put one over on us: nice In today's mail; besides the them theynevercome out, and be-try men, but erasing the "W" Voice, thare arrived ·a letter to cause it'sthecheapestprocessa-from the helmets of Wisconsin's Fr. Engleton from. Fr•. Solera vailable I think the printers feel football team, didn't quite make claiming that we're all a bunch of. they can do a sloppy job •. And, it. drunkards. Fr. Engleton has nothing will atop the students . Well anyway, I hope you ''Jtmior spent the last two _hours· calling fro;n complaining it's all the edi-Joseph Pulitzers" have learned me names. You didn't help mat-tor s fault. , something from this whole fiasco ters much by editing oi.tt the word Good luck, Another controver-and that your future publications "able" from the phrase 41 first sial-article ,Will come in a week· will at least make an attempt at N,D, students able to order beer. If I'm not sent back first; veracity, . and wine with meals/' -It turns· . Cheers, Ron KurtZ) 
out that we're not really supposedl?ick Veit, Innsbruck-correspon-. ED: !YE SURRENDER. 
dent WEDNESDAY, •• , , ••• , , , ••• , , , , , • , • , , •• , ,NOVEMBER 11 

7:30 p.m. Varsity Intersqti.ad Basketball Fieldhouse Game 
8 p.m. Rabbi Maurice Parzen: "The Common Lib. Aud. Path: The Judea-Christian Tradition'' 
THURSDAY••• , • , •• , • , • , .-•• , •••• , • , , , , • NOVEMBER 12 
3 p.m. Dr, Raymond Potvin: "Family Lib, Aud. Planning and the Question of Conscience" 
6 p.m. New England Club Banquet Frankie's 
7:30 p.m. LS.O, Slide Show: "Rurallndia" Fiesta Lounge 
8 p.m. Norman Pounds: "Sources and . Lib. Aud. Industrial Development in Modern Poland" 
8:15 
p,m. "King Lear" Washington Hall FRIDAY••••• , • , •• , , , , , , , • , ••• , .,_,, •.• .NOVEMBER-13 

8:15 
p.m. "King Lear" Washington Hall 9 p.m. . Military Ball LaFortune 


SATURDAY.,., •••••••••••••• , ••• , ••••••NOVEMBER 14 4 p,m, Junior Class Date Party . Clear Lake Lodge 
8:15 
p.in. "King Lear" . Washington HaU 

8:15 
p.m. Clancy Brothers Concert Stephan Center 


SL'NDAY. • • • • • • • • • • • , • , , ••.• , • , • • • • • , • ,NOVEMBER 15 2 p.m, "King Lear" Washington Hall 
6:30 and 9 p.m. Dixie Club Movie: "Notorious Eng. Aud. Landlady" 
TUESDAY, • , •.•••••••-•• ., •• -••.•••,••• ., .NOVEMBER 17 Evening Meal Iowa Victory Party Ticket Sales Dining Halls 
4:30 p.m. .Dr. Irwin Schultz: "The Clearance Biology Aud. of Virus Particles from the Blood" 
Meetings: 

: Association Internationale des Etudiants en Sciences Economiques et Commerciales -Sunday, November 15, 2 p.m,, 104 O'Shaughnessy~ All business and economics students interested in working overseas this con:ing summer may attend. 

Published weekly during the academic year by students.of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, Office,. Rooin 2A, LaFortune, Student Center; P,O. Box ll. Board of Review ••••••••.Rev. Daniel O'Neil, c.s.c., John Gearen EDITOR. , •••• , •.•••••••••••., • , • , , • ,BARRY JOHANSON Associate Editor:, , •••• , ••••••••• , ••••••• ,Grover Nix 111 Editorial Staff:••• , •••• Tom Anderson, Dick Ritter, Jerry Pockar News Editor:. • • • • • , • , , • • • • • • ••••••• , •• , • ·John Buckley 
Assistant News Editor:, •••••••• , •••••••••• Bob Lumpkins News Staff:•••.•.•Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Terry Murphy, Dan Murphy, Steve Pepe, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, Al Schulte, 
John Sible.y, Dick Veit, Alana McGrattan • 
' James Fish Sports Editor:, , , •• , ••••• , ••••••·• •• •••••George Kruszewski Sports Staff:••••• , •• Jim Hemphill, Vince Kaval, Mike Read, Dan 
Ferguson, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger Business Manager:, ••••••••••••••••••· ••• John 0'.Hanlon Advertising. Manager: •••••••• ~ •• , •••• , ••• , , • , .Ken Socha Advertising Salesmen:.' • • • , • • ••• , ••cregg and Roger .Barron Copy Editors:, • • • '• • • • • •. • • • •••Bill rviet7, Lou Bartoshesky Layout Editor:.......... ~ ••••••••• Dave Griffen, Dennis Kern Assistant Layoui:_Editor:•••••••• ;· •••·, •••••••··• • Neil Bowen 
Layout Staff:••••• , ~ • -~ •••••••••••••·••••• ~SteveVogel Proofreader:, ••• , , ...... , , , •-. , , , • , • , • , , John Radosevich Circulation Manager:.· •••••. ~ ••••• , ••••• Ted Purvin 

. · ,:i, 
_, .,, ,: ~,'. .h~---..· '~ /i __, ~,i" 
' 
-~l 
• .·I ~ 
~~~ 

~~.. 


,17 ~ 

.""'-,--:,_ :1~· . ..:....-.:-·­. 
.... .,,... 
. t .,... 
,.;...,,.._ .. _ ......... 
, 


_______,__--...c....._:____...:.:..._....:.__.__.___..._;,,...__,.......--'---'----:--'--_......;__;_--"-~-.:.;_;.,;.;_.....-~_;__;:...:..._:_:_::.....:.:.:,~_.:.:,_-..;;;.::;..:;.::..::.::..,.,."--'-.-;;;·····.;..··!'.:.i''=:._..__._;.;___'._:_..'--_;__;:~j,;____ 
November 11, 1964 

THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana Page-3 







Conjerence Calls Educ'!tion Key to Latin Development_ 
One of the things·regarded as a ren as rapidly as possible," since Dr. Raleigh Fossbrink, of Pur­symptom of tmderdevelopment is the· " average amount of school­due University, told of Purdue's in fact a major· obstacle to de-fng for persons over 15 years of activities in establishing the velopment, namely, "the low a-age in Latin America in 1%0was ideas of a land-grant university verage level of education that 2.2 years." in Brazil. The land-grant col­characterizes the Latin Ameri-He emphasized that "one of the leges in the U.S. were founded can region." In his statement main flmctions of educationin the "to teach suchbranches of learn­at the opming session of the con-development process is to pro­ing as are related to agriculture ference "Education and Social .vide the labor force with the'nec­and mechanic arts, in order to Change in Latin America", Not-essary complex of knowledge and promote the liberal and practical re Dame's Dr. Paul Montavon skills that makes the human agent education of the industrial class­stated the theme of ;he 3-day more productive and which en­es in the several pursuits _and conference. ables it to Improve the quality of professions of life." It is by as­
Fifty experts on Latin Ameri-other productive agents.'' sisting in this field, Dr. Foss­can affairs came to the campus Donald F. Sandberg, a Program brink feels, that the universities last week for the 1%4 annual Associate with the Ford Founda­of the United States can help the Conference of the Midwest coun-tion, explained the role the found­development of Latin America. cil of the Association for Latin atlon was playing in aiding edu­American Studies. cation in Latin America and 
Education is Investment with a stated that these cowttries need­Navy Outguris Two Opponents favorable rate of return, and also ed a vastly broadened and im­
a development of a country's proved system of university and Me11)hers of the NROTC pistol Meurer, a Midshipman Ensign; natural resources, was the con-higher education. Quoting Jona­team put two more notches on Daniel J. Rooney, F, Harry Rob-sensus of opinion at the con-than Turner, who _instituted the make 
the handle of their record last erts, H.I.... Terhune andTheodore ference. . idea of the land grant university, 
week by defeating gunslingers T. Foley, Meurer is the only Disagreement came only over Sandberg said, "The whole his­like a lion,
from Miami of Ohio and Ohio senior on the varsity team. where the development should be tory of education , •• shows that State. Other Midshipman on the squad stressed. we must begin with the higher in-
you beast 
Notre Dame fired a 1305 score are W, Powers, P. Finneran, and Dr, Montavon said, ''Surely cine stitutions or we can never suc­
while Miami nicked off 1143 and L.V. Garnbacort, First Sergeant of the primary goals should be ceed with the lower-forthe plain 
Ohio S~ate 958. Blank is the team coach and Ma-to proVide at least elementary reason thatneitherknowledgenorTop guns on the squad are team jor L. w. Fischer is officer in education for all school age child-. water can run uphill." · 
captian Midshipman Ensign Tom 
charge~-------------'-----------------­
._HEY FELLOWS LOOK US OVER 


ELL SYSTEM 
ARMY-NAVY 
Discount Center 
, . . . 
320 S. l\Iichigan 



IT IE
·MEET Gus & Kent 

. ' 


17 .& 18, 1964·
Largest'. _Selection 
' SURPLUS ITEMS 
C%S%%Sfi%SSSSSSSSi 


· Toq~es~-:-· -----$1.29 Watch Caps, Navy -$1.29 
The following Bell Syste~ Companies will be represented:
· Novy Scarves ----$ .99 Army Ponchos ---$2.99 Army Parkos ----$14.99 

Indiana Bell Telephone Company
• 

· Navy Shoes --'" --$6.99 

s AT&T_:_ Long Lines
Combat Boot ----$9.99 · Combat Boots ----$9.99 

e West.ern Electric Company
Gloves, Shell, liner-$3.99 

0 Sandia Corporation
i%%,%%%$$$%%%SS%%1 
CHECK THIS 


e .Bell Telephone Laboratories 
FLEXIBLE 


0 All Operating Telephone Companies
LAY-A-WAY 

SS%%¥%%SSS%%%CSSS 
B-9 Fleece Lined 40" 
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA·
Parka ----·----$22.99 
CHESAPEAKE & . POTOMAC TELEPHONE CO.
Air Force Flight Jackets 
CINCINNATI & SUBURBAN BELL TELEPHONE CO.
-----------. -$15.99 Tanker Jackets --~ $9.99 
ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
Rain Parkas¾ Light $4.99 
MICHIGAN BELL TELEPHONE· COMPANY 
Sweat Shirts· ---• $1.49 
MOUNTAIN STATES TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. Sweat Pants -----$1.99 
NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
Winter Caps $1.99 & $3.99 
NEW JERSEY BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Wellington Boots Unlined 
NEW YORK TELEPHONE COMPANY
& Lined -$9.99 & $14.99 · 
NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Rubber · Thermal Boots -------:. $4.99 $9.99 
OHIO BELL TELEPHONE CO. 
Leather Ther~ol Boots 
fACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO. 
-----:. ------$14.99 
PACIFIC NORTHWEST BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Fleece Lined Boots 
SOUTHERN ,BELL TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.
-. '-:-;. -•;• ;. ----$l4.99 ·. 
SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE· CO. 
SOUTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO.


ARMY-NAVY 
WISCO_NSIN TELEPHONE COMPANY_..· 
Discount Center 320 S. lUichig~_n .·. 
Pleas~ contact your Placement Office for an interview C!PPOintment So. Bend, Ind._ 232-8477 
All qualified app/iconls will receive. consideration for· employment wilhoul regard lo race, creed, color or 11aliona/ origin, . . :_ · . · · . , 
"1001 ·UNUSUAL ITEMS"·· 

' 
! 
J 
j
' 

Post-Grad slacks by,:. 
h.i. 


You'll prance and dance and look lean and lethal in these pants. They trim you up and "taper you down. Post-Grads are the king ofcampus styles I because they're absolutely au­thentic.· Neat belt loops. Nar­row,but· notctoo, narrow cuffs. 
l 

Shaped on-searn pockets.You can look regal for a pittance since they cost b.ut $6.98 
I 

a pair in 65% Dacron* 35% . I I Cotton. Buy 'em·and rbarrr! 
•DuPont's Reg. TM for it~ Polyester Fiber 
Page 4 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana· November 11, 1964 
I I Sophs Sponsor Memorial Grant, Graduate· Admission Harder· 
j ' ' 
The Class of 1967 is sponsoring will be a means of showing class
f 
a memorial scholarship in honor unity, and also providingfinancial Doctoral Candidates DesiredI of Mark Buckley, Mike Leahyand aid to class members. 


By Ray Foery mately that many will decide to
master's level. 'This naturally
! " Joe Smith, the three members of Sophomores interested inassis­
... \ raises the quality level of the go else where. '·(;
» the class who have diedwithinthe ting as solicitors should contact In reply to questions concerningMuch has been said, in recent graduate student.' explains Fa­
• last five months~ George Grumley, business mana­Notre students 
ger, in 141 Alumni, years, about the increasing dif­ther Beichner, 'becausewhile re­Dame and the The ftmds for the scholarship ficulty students are havinggetting latively many graduate students Notre Dame graduate school, Fa­will be collected by a solicitation ther Beichner points out that ourinto the college of their choice. are capable of getting a master's
of the class members only. Geographer With the overflow in under­degree, only the most qualified graduate school does 'quite well' 
Pledge cards will be distributed in students with
graduate enrollments has come have the ability to attain a Ph.D.' supporting its 
within two weeks. 'Allpledgeswill Dr. Norman J. G. Pounds, also an increasing difficulty for fellowship's andassistanceships,
Because of this tightening of
be James .collected Fish, within chairman six months. of the geography Chairman at of Indiana University, the department of students to continue their study graduate level admissions,. se­the in comparison same size. to other schools of ~--. 
,. on the graduate level, 'Graduate lecting students has becomedrive, says that the scholarship will speak on "Resources andIn­Where most of our under­schools. too are becoming more 'somewhat of a game, on the part do dustrial Development in Modern
continued}om page 1 qualified. Consequently, gradu­of the student and of the admis­g_raduates go for graduate school? 
Poland" tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. 

ate schools have become more 'Anywhere, it seems, but here,'
sions director,' says Beichner.
out to the crowd, asking them to in the Memorial Library Auditor-· selective iri their admissionpro­For awhile a student Is going to laments Father Beichner. 'Theynotify Republican !)fficials, · ium. The lecture is sponsoredby will break their necks trying to
cedures.' be able to attend only one grad­Moore was put ina basementcell the Soviet andEastEuropeanStu­get into other schools when acru-·Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C,S,C., uate school, he will apply to fourin the .county jail, and officers dies Program. 
dean of Notre Dame's Graduate ally they probably could have done 
periodically asked was .<?F five. Ifhe is accepted at three,
who A native of Bath, England, Prof, 
School, said recently that this better to stay here.' Proba_bly
for instance, two ofthem are to bepaying him, how much, and why Pounds holds degreesfrom Cam­problem has been accentuated by left in the cold, so to speak. holding to 'the grass is alwayshe was challenging voters. His bridge and the University of Lon­the desire on the part of most On the other hand, a graduate greener' axiom, our .students requests to make a telephone call don. He came to LU as a visit-. 
Chicago,graduate schools to have their school will normally accept about travel to Columbia,and to consult a lawyer were not ing professorandwasnamedpro­

students reach the doctor's de­Princeton, Yale.:.and Harvard to
students It can
fessor of geography in 1952, He 30% more than
granted. gree, rather than stop at the handle, knowing that approx!-their post graduate studying,
After an hour and a half, a Re­is the author of 20 books, 
I~·-.._..~~..-..~..-..._...-..~,......,.._..,....,.....,.,_.~~.._...,,_,......,._,.
publican lawyer, arrived; he had ' . ..-..~.......~.......-..,_....-,;:..-,...-..~.,_....-..._ _._......,.~t.-.i..-.....---.~' been notified by a woman in the I . . I crowd in front of the polling place. ·Moore was released im­I I mediately. 
He tnen went back to his dis­


l SALE STILL GOING ON I .... 
trict, this time with four guards. "The hecklers' facesturnedpur­I I ­ple when they saw me coming back," He challenged three or 
II ONE CENT SALE II
four more people before the polls closed. A suit for illegal arrest was 
AN

filed immediatelyagainst the dis­I / .· D I trict attorney by lawyers on the Gary Republican staff, but "mostly for the publicity," said 


I NINETY NINE CENT SALE . I
Moore. "Nothing will become of it, because nobody will testify a­
gainst the district attorney and I PENNY SALE Any L.P. From Our Stock On S~le Fo~· PENNY, SALE I there are no records of arrest." "Some people have told me that 
Your Choice ,Your Choice
it wasn't doing any good to watch i ··c-.-· 1'. the polls, because it didn't make These Artists 
These Artists a difference in the election," 
:!<C •

said Moore, "But still, if a per­· onn1e.• F. ranc1s *Jackie Gleason l son can vote twice, the whole sys­
:em is shot." Joni James. Roger Williams I *Ray Charles 
*J,idy Garland 
,.
Frank Sinatra 

Bobby Darin *Kingston Trio I
*Buddy Greco: 
I
Guy Lombardo Robert Goulet 
I
*Pat Boone

I 
*Gloria Lynne' I Paul Anka I.
Doris Day, *Edie Gorme 
*Tennessee Ernie

ii . I I 
Bo Diddley 
_Ray Price t
i 

*Christy Minstrels t
I *Mort Sahl 
I
I 
t 
AND
t

College ! ' 
All 
Other Merchandise I Outlines ., 'I In The Store On Sale For 99¢ t
·1 

when they buy their text-} I
Ibooks. Easy-to-rend, easy-i, 
. to-study, easy-to-review l' digests • , . work like an { extra sel or notes prepared ti 
· by outstanding educators. ·1·i 
I

I ' 
I


~~, ~:::OLOOY I I C 
t 


ORAMA ~ ECONOMICS. fJ EDUCATION f ENGINEERING fll,, II '""'--~--' When You Buy One At 
1 ' GOVERNMENT m_;
II. 
ENGLISH 

HISTORY ?.J J 99¢ SALE 99¢ Regular Mfg. Suggested List Price 99¢ SALE 9'9¢ 
· . LANGUAGES '~ 

t LITERATURE !J i In Same Price Range ~~;~MATICS
I i I *Barbara Streisand ' ' t 
i PHILOSOPHY Animals *Hen~y Mancini I 
PSYCHOLOGY I B h B
I SCIENCE eac . oys Rollin ·St ·
· l


ones_
SOCIOLOGY 
1



i SPEECH 

I Sound Tracks -Broadway Shows -Folk-Country-Jazz I

Ii~~;&Ull11'.,·· t I 
On Display at I 
.._
The Notre Dame 
r

I di c unt r c rds I ·­
--~/ 
;·

Bookshop 

i 214 So. M·1ch·1gan·St. Ph. 233-458's· Open Mon., Thurs., Fri. 9:30 io 8:30. I
i Tues., Wed., Sat. 9:30 to 5:30 
~--------•---------------~~-~•-----~-----I 
I ! 




November 11, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana Page 5 
'Lear' Unveiled Tomorrow 
.."" 
' 
~ 
: 
J 
.... 
"\­
.•· 

Debaters Tall{ To· Honors 
Two Freshmen debating teams won honors Nov. I when one cap­tured first place out of 40 schools at u. of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and. the other went seven and three for the affirmative totake second place at an SMC tournament. Twenty schools were in the SMC tournament, Both debates were in the novice class, 
Members of the team winning at Milwaukee were Tom Brislin and Jeff Keyes for the affirmative, and Dennis O'Dea and Forrest 
.r Hainline for the negative, Bryan McTigue and Jim Sauter were for the affirmative· in the SMC debate, while Robert Mc­Mennon and Arthur Desmet stood up for the negative, Senior members of the debate team, Larry Petrosius and John Roos, also are marking up scores on the win-side of the tally sheet. They returned with a seven win­one loss record from an exhibi­tion series in New York. · 
Cyr's Barber Shop 

l\IlCHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP . 100-102 South l'tlain Street Opposite Court llouse South Bend, Int!iana. 

by Jack Quine 
In King Lear, University Thea­ter has tackled as usual a bulging bundle of difficulties, and tomor­row an opening night audience will see the outcome. Francis Fer­gusson, noted drama expert, states in his introduction to Lear that it is a show very difficult to produce, Dave Clennon,. who will play Lear, has his own idea of why this has been said. 
Clennon q13scribes the play as "a motionless confrontation, sort of an endurance test for Lear,. Kent Gloucester and Edmund." The 1difficulty with this, he says, 
i:S that it makes for a play short on action, a fact which doesn't help to clarify the complicated plot, 
Father Harvey, the director, has tried to combat this, he believes, by keeping the play in a state of continual excitation, keeping the dialogue moving, and stressing the "guts" in some of the mood of self contemplation, especially in Act IV, but.this i s to be weigh­ed againstthe danger of provoking 

an uncontemplative  audience  to  
restlessness.  
Along with these  general dif­ 

ficulties are some particular characterization difficulties. Dave Clennon, and Pat Kelly must go from the original Edgar, whom he describes as "spoiled and cre­dulous", through Edgar in his lunatic peasant guise, to the final Edgar, the chivalric hero. Dave Clennon must go from a Lear whom he describes as a "cranky old man" in the beginning, to a Lear who dies in tragic nobility after his tortuouspaththrough the hell of rejection. Suchcharacter­
. izations demand much of the act­or. 

The poetry of the play is another challenge that the. production has faced. Shakespeare was a master of the verse medium when he wrote Lear, and the play Lear cannot be separated from the poem Lear. The firstfew Univer­sity Theater readings of the play, in fact, were used by FatherHar-

OPTO.METRIST 
CONTACT LENSES 
. Inquiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED 
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 lo 24-Hour Service 305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477 


·HOLY CROSS 
vey solely to instruct the cast in the poetic rhythms. 
"Shakespeare's meteris a great help," says Pat Kelly," inunder­standing the meaning Shake­speare has given to aline, Poetic stresses indicate the intended in­terpretation.'' 
Dave Clennon .says the poetry was helpful tohiminanotherway. By capturing in the meter the speech patterns of an old man, Shakespeare, Dave claims,· has made the job of being vocally an old man much easier, 
Technical effects in Lear should prove most interesting. Three . pagan-loo~ng monolithic ~rches and some steps are the station­
· 

Priests  Brothers  
.* Teachers  * Office and  
* Missionaries * Preachers  * Parish Priests * ·chaplains  * Teachers * Missionaries  ·• Manual * Workers  
* Writers  ·*  Social Workers  .  
United States  France  Brazil:  India  Uganda  
Canada  Italy  Chile  Pakistan  Ghana  
Haiti  Spain  Peru  Liberia.  

\ 

\'isit or phone (284-6385 or 284-6497):. Father William Melody, C.~.C,-, St. J~seph Hall 
ary set; only lighting variations and music will indicate scene 
changes. The storm scene will be .simulated by two.thundering stainless steel sheets, flashing lights, and a wind machine, all making a commotion that Pat Kelly claims frightens him still, One of the boldest strokes of the show will be the use ofelectronic music which ·it is hoped will establish a mood of strangeness and fright for some scenes, 
Lear opens tomorrow at Wash­ington Hall and will run thisweek­

' 
A payday in Europe can help 
ORK 


IN EUROPE 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg -Every registered student can get a job in Europe through the American Student Information Service, and the first 5000 appli­cants receive $250 travel grants. It is possible to earn $300 a month from a job selection that includes lifeguarding, child care and other resort ,vork, office, sales, ship­board, farm and factory work. Job and travel grant applications and complete details are·availa­ble in a 36-page illustrated book­let·which students may obtain by sending $2 (for the booklet and ahmail postage) to Dept. N, ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Lux­embourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. 
end andnextweekendonThursday Friday, and Saturday at 8:15, This Sunday there will be a 2:00 mat­
. \
1nee. 
__...,_...________~ 
j
.PUBLIC CAFETERIA 
l i
South Dining !fall 
I
i SODA FOUNTAIN 
f
t Mon. thru Fri. t 7: 30 A .~l.-9: 30. P .:-.1. i 
I 

o 
The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people -the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

o 
If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not· pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his .life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor-· tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 


. NATIOHAL,VOCATIONS DIRECTOR ·PAULIST FATHERS , 415 WEST 59th STREET 
NEW YORK; N.'Y. 10019 


The most 
walked about 
. Slacks on 
Campus contain 

''DACRON''® 
Hubbard Slacks 
have a faculty 
for fashions of 
65% "Dacron"* 
polyester and 35% 
combed cotton. 
Styled in Classic 
plain front and 
traditional Gay 
Blade models for 
wrinkle-free good looks and carefree · comfort, at Better 
Stores everywhere. 
*Dupont's registered
trademark · 

Page 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame, Indiana November 11, 1964 





GAME OF THE.YEAR :f 
by Ed Hugetz tin, and Emil Sitko, in their four coach at Michigan State, while at prominence. At half-time the Ir­game, "Michigan State came 
year-sat Notre Dame, had played Notre Dame Terry Brennan took ish had a 7-0 lead, but duringthe after us harder than any team this 
"Even back during the Leahy on three National Championship over for Leahy, In their first intennisslon Duffy made a few year, and that includes Notre era,"· said an Irish fan who has teams ('46, '47, '49) and had never meeting Brennan and his Notre changes in the Spartan' s game Dame. State is thefinestfootball been following Notre Dame foot­tasted defeat. The big game 1n , Dame forces, sparked by Ralph strategy, The results for those team we have faced yet, Theyhad ball since the days of Knute Rock­1949, of course, was to be the Gugliemi, beat Duffy in a 20-19 who do not remember-was a 17-7 everything today: speed, desire, 
thriller, Since then, neither · State victory, behind the fine run­Terry Brennan, Joe Kuharich, or ning of fullback George Saimes. Hugh Devore have been able to After this defeat, the Irish could manage a victory against Duffy, manage only two wins in their In 1955, Duffy and his Spartans, remaining six games, To sum it 
paced by All-Americans Clar­all up, since 1954, Duffy Dau­ence Peaks and Earl Morrall, put gherty's team have beaten Not­an end to·any national champion­re Dame eight straight times by ship hopes Notre Dame and its the average score of 25-6, star Paul Hormmg might have Last week lv1lchigan State wallo­
had, by beating the Irish 21-7, ped Purdue 2i-7. The score This year's seniors can remem-would have been higher if State her 1961, when the Irishwon their had not fumbled twice and had first three gamesandappearedto thi-ee passes intercepted. Purdue be on the road back to national coach Mollenkopf said after the 
Irish~Human: Nip Pitt l 7-15 
and effort," 

State's defense lastyearwasthe best in the Big Ten, Most of the defensive backfield 1s back along •~ with several lineman. The lin~ · appears to be a little on the small side for a BigTen team. However, last Saturday the State line had no trouble handling the huge Pur­due line. 
The backfield is the real sur­prise this year. Graduationelim-. inated the four top rushers on last year's squad, Halfbacks, Clinton Jones (6, 196) and Dick Gordon (5-10,-178) along with Fullback Eddie Cotton, however, have been more than adequate replace­ments, Both Jones and Gordon gained good yardage last Satur­day on power sweeps around the Purdue ends, Gordon is now the Big Ten rushing leader after picking up 146 yards against Pur­
.....
due and 199 yards against Wis-­consin the week before, 

State's passing attack, featuring quaterback Steve Juday, rounds out the Spartan offen'se, Juday is an extremely accurate passer ­he completed eight a~ ten passes , __ ,.,. a gain st Purdue. Ends Gene Wash­ington and Tom Krzemienskia­long with Gordon and Jones are Juday' s main targets, 
There is not much danger that the Irish will wderestirnate State, After early seasonlosses to North Carolina, Michigan, and Indiana, the Spartans have beaten Northwestern, Wisconsin, and Purdue on successive Saturdays. They also own a victory overex­plosive Southern Cal. Clearly Michigan State is an lmproving club, This should be the game of the year, If it is, 60,000 fans in Notre Dame stadium and a nat­ional TV audience will be on hand to see the outcome. 

for her. 

for christmas her birthday ... on saturday night! 


lovely pendants 

from.· .• 


your diamond center 121 w. washington st. south bend between michigon & main w,e invite your oecoont 

ne, ,.when we were beatingteams by thirty to forty points and most teams didn't want to play us, the Michigan State game was always the one wefearedwe mtghtlose." During the Leahy era the Irish beat the Spartanstwice while los­ing three times. These three losses constitute more than a quarter of Leahy' s losses here at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's last National Championship team was Leahy's 1949 squad. The seniors ·on the team, led byLeonHart, Jim rvtar­


-1_M_e_e_t_T_h_e_·_Ir_i_s_h_l 
by Mike Reed 
Michigan State game, The Irish 
had beaten their earlier oppo­
nents by terrific margins, whipP­
ing Purdue 35-12 and Navy 40..0 
(the 1%4 Irlsh squad owns 34-15 
and 40-0 wins over Purdue ·and 
Navy respectively), The '49 Spar­
tans after an early season loss, 
had won five in a row. The Irish, 
however, led by sophomore quar­

terback Bob Williams handed · State a 36-21 defeat. 
Since Leahy things have gotten 
worse. In 1954 Duffy Daugherty 
succeeded Biggie Munn as head . 


Whew, too close for comfort, •• Yes, butlet'scountourblessings, Although somewhat disillusioned, the Irish are 7-0, and should re­tain their number one rating.They proved they could win the close ones as well as the runaways. Coach Ara Parseghian has over­come his win six and fall apart barrier that re built at North.­Western in 1959 and 1%2, End Jack Snow broke Jim Kelley's 1962 pass reception record of 41, and quarterback John Huarte and Nick Eddy combined on the long­est pass scoring play in Notre Dame history, The 91 yard beauty for the second Irish touch­down topred Paul Hornung' s 78 yarder to Jim Morse against Southern California in 1955. Fi­nally, the Sports Illustrated jinx, and. the "number one" hex were overcome, 
Why not the .usual 32-6? The greatest single factor in Notre Dame's 17-lSwinwaspsychologi­cal. Obviously, Pittwas up,up,up,. for this game, The Panthers never stopped hittingandbounced right. up when they were hit. In contrast, Notre Dame's six other victims had suffered such a physical beating that by the start of the third quarter they had had it. Not so for Pittsburgh. • ,They played for an upset, and almost had one, Only Joe Azzaro' s rec­ond period fieldgoal savedthe Ir­ish from defeat, 
There is no doubt that injuries 
hurt .us considerably. The ab­
sence of left linebacker Jim Ly­
nch was notable~ His experience 
made his position difficult to fill 
and therefore vulnerable, Pitt 
fullback Barry McKnight took full 

. 
advantage of this. He scored twice on runs of three yards and one yard, and has been the only opposing back to run withconsis­tency against the Irish defence, McKnight, quarterback Fred Ma­zurek, and halfbackErickCrab­tree racked up 199 yards rushing. This is 129 yards more than the average of ourpast opponents.Al­so, Mazurek prevented a Tony Carey interceptionbyonlythrow­
ing 5 times for 21 yards, 

Offensively, Bill Wolski' s pull­ed hamstring muscle in the sec­ond period stalled the Irish att­ack for the remainder of thE: afternoon. His one touchdown per game and fiveyardsacarrycould not be replaced, Joe Farrell and Pete Andreotti did a terrific job. in the second half trying to take up the slack inthe offense, 
. 

No. 51, 6-9, 240, Sr, forward-cen­ter, Co-Captain Walt had an ex­ceptional soph season, and a fine junior year with·the exception of about six games missed due to a back injury••••best game perfor­mance probably againstSt. Louis with 33 points •• ,shootswell with either hand. ••may see more ac­tion on the outside at a forward post, ...tallest man ever to play for Notre Dame finished second . on the team in reboW1ds with an average of 17,5. , , graduate of Cathedral High in Indianapolis. , an English major in the. College 
Farrell scored the first Irish . touchdown on the first march of· the ballgame. After going 80 yards in 14 plays, Joe went over from the one, 
One Step Closer 
Mike Coffee and Bob Walsh tied for first in a new course record as the Irish cross-country team shot out Indiana, Last. Friday, Their timewas19:35forthe rug­ged course. 
Two years ago Frank Carver and Billy Clark ·ran th.e same course in what was then a course record of 20:51. · Clark did not run Fri­day because of the business board exams. . In third place was Ed Dean at 19:50, followed by LarryDirn­berger and Don Bergan. 
of Liberal Ans, 
.No, 41, 6-4, 200, Sr, forward, Co­Captain Saw action in 23 games last season. ,a startermost of the time•• St, John's when he hit for 25 points, • ,has fine jump shot from the corner and isa good re­bounder •• ; • , possesses un­believeable spring, • ,played at Goshen High in Goshen, Indiana where he averaged 27, 7 points senior year and set a county scor­ing mark. • ,.MVP in North-South all star game of Indiana•• ,a finance major with a B average•• president oftheNotreDamecam­pus monogram chili~ 


Larry Sheffield 
No. 35, 6-1, 175, Sr, guard, ••Led the team in scoringlastyearwith 535 points and a 22.3 avg. , ..has 'two year total of 792, • ,destined to become one of the highest sco.cers in Notre Dame history •• ,Led the team in scorlng in 12 . games last season •• ,best game was record breaking 47 pointsa­gainst Detroit, ,topped the squad in free-throw accuracy with 75% 
• ,playmaker of the squad. .from Troy, N.Y, and attended LaSalle Institute where he ·gained All­American honors i:wo years, ••a finance major in the College of 
· Business Administration, 

'FT. 62 43  TP 372 313  Avg;· .REB, 14~3 438 17,4 315  AVG. 16.8 17.S  
83 68  253 262  9.7 11,4  226 178 ·  8,8 7.7  
ST 107  253 535  16,1 22,3  53 86  3,3 3,6  


Walt Sahm G PG 1963-1964 26 155 1964-1%5 18 135 
. Jay Miller 1963-1964 26 85 1964-1965 23 'Tl 
Larry Sheffield 1963-1964 16 100 1964-1965 24 214 

Foto News Litho -Ramar~·Publishing, '?lkhart, Indiana· 






