At Birth Control Symposium 
Speakers Dispute Church's Stand 
.· by Sarah Jane Van Roo Journalism Senior Marquette Universftv 
''The Church's arguments a­gainst birth control are com­pletely inefficient," charges Dr•. Louis Dupre', professor of The­ology at Georgetown University. Dr. Dupre' was one of four sreak­ers at the 1%4 Advent Symposi­um Saturday, Dec. 5, in theSteP­an Center. The topicforthe sym­posium was "Birth Control, its implications for the Contempor­ary Catholic.'' 
"I myself have no position on this,'' Dr. Dupre' went on to say. ''I will wait until the Church speaks out, But right now, it is a problem to be discussed." 
Earlier in the afternoon, Dr. John Iliggins, professor of clini­cal psychiatry at St. Louis Uni­versity, made a similarobserva­tion. 
"One of the most exciting parts of a controversy like this is the way it stimulates people in diff­erent fields to think about it," he said, 
THE 
,, ...,.. . 


OF NOTRE BAME 
G1:aren, ·Kee Attend-West Point ·Conjerence 
John Gearen and Jed Kee, Inter­national Cornmissioner, repre­sented Notre Dame at the four-day 16th Annual Studdent Council on United States Affairs, held at West Point_ last Wednesday through Saturday. The conference dealt with foreign policy with re­spect to the emerging countries, 

The 180 delegates from 90 schools, divided into groups de­voted to study of five areas: Af­rica (Gearen), Latin America (Kee), Southeast Asia, South Asia and the 1\1iddle East.. · 
The evenings were devoted to speeches and panel discusionsby experts in academic, diplomatic and foreign policy areas. Orville Freeman, Secretary of Agricul­ture, spoke .on world population snd the food problem,·­
buring. the· mornings and after­
"·}·, ~ 
v1: noons, groups. of 20. delegates 
·~·:,,_....;.,.· 
each discussed their-particular ·areas of interest; finally four stu­dents from each group drew up reports, which will be included in the final report of.the confer­ence, Kee and Gearen were each on their drafting committees. 
The policy paper resultingfrom the conference each year is sent to the State Department, and is given some credence. 
"One thing we gained," Kee 
· commented, "wasa realization of the difficulties there are in mak­-ing th_ese decisions in foreign po­licy," · The two Notre Dame repre-. Sentatives went in order to bring back the ideas expressed at the conference, in keeping with an aim of student government this year of bringing about greater 

. . · Notre Dame filed suit inthe New 
· York Supreme Court Monday ask­ing that 20th Century Fox be for­bidden to. show a film,. entitled ''John Goldfarb-~Please Come Home." The suit claims that the film depicts a Fightinglrishfoot­ball team as "undisciplined glut­tons and drunks" who cavort with a harem of sexy women the night before a big game, · The suit also names Doubleday and Company, Incorporated, as defendants, and seeks a ban on further publication of a novel on which the movie is based, ·The suit was due to return before the court today. It charges that the film does "irreparable and immeasurable damage" to Notre Dame, which 
.awareness on campus of interna-. "won.large prestige foracademic tional issues. · excellence and .the high character 
The other two speakers, Dr. Ralph Kenck, an Obstetricianand Gynecologist practicing in Chi­cago, and Dr. Donald Barrett, professor of Sociology at Notre Dame spoke on birthcontrolasit· related to their respectivefields. 
The Symposium was co-spon­sored by NFCCS, and the Aca­demic Commission and drew o­ver 200 delegates from through­out the Midwest. Seven hundred Notre Dame students also attend­ed the speeches in Stepan Center. Dr. Higgins spoke of the psycho­logical and physiological prob­lems involved in the use of rhy­thm as a method of contraception. As the essence of people united in the state ofmarriage, the mar­

riage act is an integral part of
64

THE VOICE, Notre Dame University December 9, 19 ·. the relationship. Rhythm, even if Bill McGuire) only practiced for a short a per-fill these other requirements. he
',.--,::__ ~ ..~:./ :~.---kC l~t,:;:, .. 
iod of time as a month, fosters said, but exclude the personal ·rhe idea that the act is not nee-morality factor. Rhythm has as cessary, not integral to marriage its main advantage that it fills the he said. This is contrary to the needs of the moral code, he said. nature of the sex act. Itisas ar-Dr. Ralph Kenck, who has · tiffcial a method as any contra-worked in the Catholic Family ceptive. · Information center and the Cana ''However," Dr, Higgins em-conference in Chicago, disagreed 
phasired, the system of birth con-with Dr. Higgins' view.son rhy­trol chosen must conform with thm. personal moral requirements, as "It will work if you want it to well as the nature of human sex-work," he said. ''If a woman tells uality." Any birth control meth-me the basal temperature rhy­od must also be convenient, easi-thm method will not work for her 

· ly learned, reliable and effective. because she can't remember to It must fulfill the person's re-take her temperature every
quirements morally as well. 
· continued on page 3
Methods other than rhythm ful..; 

Stay-Hall Plan Modified; Vote After Christmas 

1,. The fate· of the proposed stay­>-: hall system will not be decided
~~--. 
unt·il after Christmas, according to Nick Sordi,· stay senator and chairman of the StayHallcommi­

. tee. A vote on the issue will be · taken by the senate when classes reconvene following the long holi­day break. 
The original stay-hall plan of dividing each hall into certain percentages of freshmen, sopho­mores, juniors and seniors has been modified. The new plan is 


to test the desirability and work­
ability of stay-hall by initially

.. 
setting up three halls (tentatively Alumni,-Dillon and Farley) on the original stay-hall basis, Fresh­men would be included in those three halls, 
Aside from .these halls, fresh­men would housed on the fresh-. man quad as inthe pa st, while up­perclassmen would be divided in fixed quotas among the remaining halls, 
The percentage ofeachclassal­lowed in a particular hall would vary between · halls; Zahm and Morrissey would maintain their 

The ascent through the cold, beginning' in tbe Grott_o and going up steps in the snow. (by]. Sawyer) majority ~f sophomores, _and 
Badin and Sorin seniors, This 
system of quotas was set up, 
Sordi explained, on a pragmatic 
basis; the committee didn't wish 
to set up a system that wouldfor­
ce people out of their. ha~ls • 
The higher on-campus average 
for juniors forces approximately 
40% of them off •. But the sopho.:.. 
mores who maintain on-campus 
averages seem to live inthe same 
halls. Therefore a strict percen­
tage breakdown ,vouldforce some 
of these out of halls in which they · wish to stay, 
The committee realizes that 
there is a great deal ofopposition 
to the idea offour-:year stay-hall 
residency, and i:here are some 
valid arguments against it, Sorell 
hopes tha.t stay-hall "be given a 
chance'' in the experimental sys­
tem proposed, and that, once in­
stituted in this form, it will prove 
the· worth of its general acc­
eptance. 
After the trial period, and with 
the improvment in campus acc­
omodations when the proposed 
new dormitories are built, the 
students will have a choice to ac­
cept or reject the general four­
year plan. 

Notre Dame Sues Movie Firm 


Over Film Spoofing Irish 
. • Dame without its permission and of its students and graduates," even o·,er its objections. . Rev.. Th7odore M, Hesburgh, Father Hesburgh said that "the 

C. S,C. • said the school does not story is directed to the effortsof seek any damages, but wants.the an Arab king to field a football · film to be scrapped. Twentiet_h team, coached by a blackmailed Centu~y. Fox commented that it American Jew, Goldfarb, for the was difficult to. understand why purpose of challenging and de­Notre Dame v:a1:ed until days be-feating NotreDame.bywayofven­fore the movie 15 to be released geance for a supposedwrongdone . to file the suit. Christmas day the king's son by Notre Dame. was the scheduled date of release "Its climax is a scene in the when the book was published l7 king's harem in which Notre months ago. The,!il~ company Dame players, under the in­called the movie a good-natu1:d fluence of harem girls, are de­lamp~on of contemporaryAmen-picted as undisciplined gluttons can life,:• . and drunks, and thegamethefol-
The s1ut..charged that !lie film lowing day in which Notre Dame an_d book 1<:1owinglyand11legally players, dressed in the uniforms 

. m1sa~propr1ate, _dilute an~ co~-of the University, led by a violent merc1aHy. exploit for their pn-and vulgar coach, befuddledbythe vete profit the name,· symbols,· previous evening's revelryand in 
· footb~ll team, high .P~:stige, re-the grip of nausea, are defeated . putat1on and goodw1ll of Notre by their challengers... 

·, 

• •c • ''] 
THE VOICE, Notre Dame University December 9, 1964
Page 2 
!.

Iro1i Curtain Thanksg·ivi1ig .. 
':)1

Dick Veit (Innsbruck Correspondent) 
1: i I 

Nov. 30 -The three days I spent behind oslovakia comes clear. " . J 
..., .

the Iron Curtain were among the most re­I met a Czech who was jailed for "pro­warding of my life. On the outside, it American tendencies," who speaks five 
~.'1;

is easy to be fooled bj: Czechoslovakia, languages and yet cannot travel because 
\ .._.
the beauty of Prague, its delicate por­he is not a "politically mature citizen," 
. "'-.lJ 
celain, good hotels, the world's best who, as an "expert" in his field,earns beer, and fantastically cheap prices. 63¢ an hour. He must choose his friends The people are friendly and eager to carefully and watch every word, for any­change your money and give you a deal one could be an informer. Above all, he on the black market. But only after you has little hope for the future. really meet them and win their confi­Instead of turkey, my Thanksgiving dence, ·· when they tell you what they dinner was goulash and smoked black really think of Communism and the re• beer, But never before did Thanksgiving gime, that a true picture of life in Czech mean so much. 
(~,~""f!"'M!./



Right Down The Drain II · 
With the appearance of the JUGGLER cussion club that wrestles any important_ 
-pm,!'1

we see that riot all forms of intellectual issue, has yet to schedule a match. The ism have died away on campus. But we oldest club on campus has decided, ob· do wonder when the two other bulwarks viously, that it is simply to old to en­
<lf thought are going to raise their heads. gage in any more battles. It has a long The Bookmcn, a respected literary dis­past to reflect upon and maybe that is cussion club, consists at the present more interesting than participating 111 Events Calendar 
time of two members. This is, we admit, anything new. WEDNESDAY •• , • , ·• , , • , ••••· , , • , • , , • , • , DE.CE ~!BER 9.
enough people to permit a dialogue, pro· It seems that being an intellectual has vided of course they bump into each oth­· ·become so exclusive that the bureaucra• 
8 p.m, Young Democrat's Movie: "The Making of a er on the main quad. It is interesting to tic moldings of meetings, discussions, · President" · 127 Nieuw. ,, 
: imagine that the two pages usually de­encounters, have become meaningless,• l THURSDAY ••••••• , •• ; ••• , •• ,:,:., ••• DECEMBER 11
voted to the Bookmen by the Dome will not co mention membership drives. May~ be two 8" x 10" photos of· two large be iBookmcn' and 'Wranglers' look good 
4 p,m, Dr, Samuel Shapiro: "Population and Birth heads.· · on application forms for graduate school Control;: IC LaFortune 
1

The Wranglers, a highly respected dis-and exist for that reason, alone. 7:30 p,m. Mr, George Patton: "Local Politics --the Precinct Level'' 103 O'Shaug. 8 p.ir. Prof. L.G.A. Schlichting: "The Crisis in
LETTERS TO .THE EDITOR . 
NATO" Lib. Aud. 8 p.m, Basketball: N.D. vs.' Detroit Fieldhouse

Dear Editor, writer haprens to be a member sc:1ools,. in· turn, are sending 
' . . . 

of our club the views he express-n,ore and more · good players to FRIDAY. ,·• , , • , ••• , • , •• ; , ~ •• , • , • ·•••• ·; DECEMBER 11
I have been a Notre Dame fan ed are not those of the chili, and our colleges, which have tradi­Jor 32 years, At that time, as a in fact we asked him not to print tionally reliedonCanadafortheir 
6:30 and. Philadelphia Club Movie: "Pal Joey" .· 

· · six-year old, I recall sitting by the article•. best material,
· 

8 p.m. . Engin. Aud. .my grandfather's Atwater Kent . Although the club was. dis-lvfanifestly, interest in the Mid­radio on Sat. afternoons and appointed in not being placed on· west is growing proportionately 
6:30-8 p,m. Chicago Chili Banquet Flamingo.

cheering for the Irish. . a level with Soccer, Skiing, Lac-with the general growth of the Had not W. w. II interfered I ·rosse, and Rugby, we do not feel sport. l'v!ichigan, Michigan State, 
SATURDAY, •••• , •••••••••••••·•·• , • ; ••· DECEMBER 12 .

would have entered Notre that the Athletic Board dealt usa Michigan Tech and Minnesota are Dame in 1944. It did, however, "punch below the belt". With the perennially among the top teams 
2:00 and "lviidsummer Night's Dream" and "The

and my career in. the Air Force .facts .available at the time, the · in the country, and the virus is 1
8:30 p.m. Tam.ing of the Shrew" Engin Aud. 

was·the result,· I hope rriy son, Board's decision to give usa sec-moving south as inexprably as 
now a strapping six-year oldfull­StJNDAY •• • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • -• • • .'. DE CE lv1BE R 13
ond year on probation was justi-the great glacier. indeed, pro­
. . . .

back, will one day have the oppor­fied. Furthermore, we did not fessional hockey is enjoying .. 
tunity to become "a Notre Dame 9:15 a.m. Knights of Columbus Communion Breakfast
lose ''hore ·for a budget· and the success in southern California man." 
. . . North Dining Hall 

use of athletic facilities on cam-· . and ·the Carolinas because of the Perhap.s I let my prejudice seep pus." . Both Fr, McC&rragher, construction of first-rate indoor 
2 p.m, "l\1idsummer·Night's Dre~m'' and "Thethrough, but I feel that Notre the Vice-President ofStudentAf-facilities, 

Dame was cheated (robbed · or . Taming of the Shrew'' Engin. Aud.
fairs, and Mr. Napolitano of the· 
rooked) out of the victory and the Athletic..Department have done _I am delighted that hockey atNot­8 p.m, Same movies as above·~ Little Theatre (Sl\-lC) 
•national championship Saturday. 7:30 p,m. · lnternationarChristmas Dinner-NorthDining Hall 
L everyt)1lng in their power to help re Dame. is beginning to reap the Those penalties seemedtocoin­us. Last year this help included. benefits of the work of a small 
cide . too rerlectly with Southern· some financial support, and this· group of· intensely devoted en.; . MONDAY ••• , , ••• , •• , ·••••• ,. ;, • , , , , DECEl'vIBER 14 
.. Cal's greatest needforthem:The year they ai·e also supplying us thusiasts, l sense that the Ath~ · last one, onJackSilow'spunt, was with goal. cages and protective · letic Board's decision was bnsed 6:45 and Detroit Club Movie: "Psycho" , Engin.' Aud. 
9:15 p,m,


a prime example. The one.for helmets. on fiscal conservatism combined .. holding, on Kantors· . touchdown, It is true that ourbattlefor suc­. with a lack of feeling for the po­
TUESDAY, , , , , , , • , • , , • , • • , , • , , • , • , • , DECEMBER 15

-seemed ridiculous. Who ever c~ss has been and still is an up­tential of the sport. Be tltlt as heard of an offensive lineman hill one. However, with the con­it may,. major league hockey will 
4:30 p.m. Dr. Ben Burmester: "Research with Avian . holding on a fullback plungefrorn tinued effortsof ourmembersand come to Notre Dame because itis 

Tumo·r Viruses"

the 1/2 yard line?· · · · cooreration · of :the University, too good not to come•. When it · It's also. sickening to realize Notre Danie will have a po.werlul · does come, there had better be that now Alabama, with· their . hockey team readyforthenewice plenty of seats in ..the .arena.\ THE' .· .· · ...... . "rinky~dink", -Anglo -Saxon rink that Js to· come in just a few schedule will back into the nation­short yea·rs•. , If I can do anything to hel!"', I · al (?) championship, Iwonder how Yours truly, would appreciate· being asked. a .team can receive the national 
. Bob Bolduc, 




w••••

· Sincerely,· OF NOTltE DAME··championship without playing • 
· President . t1cams fromaUparts of the nation. Bowen Kerrihard In fact, I suggest that until the· 
Dear Editor: ~ 
. Dear Editor: Published weekly,during the academic .year by students.~! t~ Uni~ 
· Southeastern Conference plays I was most interested in. your Innsbruck, Nov, 23-The accomp-versity of Notre Dame. · Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center;·· · 
some ''outside games", As does Post Office Box I, · ·
hockey editorial in the November lishments of our month-old lead-
the· Western Conference, the Big 
11 issue., I recently returned to erless gov6rnment have been so Board of Review•• ,.; •• , ,Rev. Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearen Eight, and the AAWU, they be de:-· Indiana from it northern New York satisfactory that its continuance EDITOR•••••••• ~ •••·••••••••••••••••BARRY· JOHANSON nied consideration forthe nation-. 
• college where hockey is .king, was voted ovenvhelmingly this· Associate Editor:. , •••••••••••••• ; •••• , • , .Grover Nix Ill 
: al title and ~rhaps referred to 
football running a pale second and Thursday. News Editor:, ·.•.•• ·••••••••• .'••••• ; •••••• John Buckiey as ;'the Ivy League of the South." 
basketball drawing crowds of up ' On November 22, Notre Dame Assistant News Editor:••· , •• , , , , , •• , •••••• ·,Bob Lumpkins In closing, May I offer my deep 
.to so. As an erstwhile Hoosier, sponsoNd a JV!ass .in iernem"". News Staff:••••• ; ; , • , • ; .•• ·, • Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickas, Dan · and sincere · congratulations· to . I found it bit hard to get used to. brance of the death of President Murray, Jack Quine, BobScheuble, Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick <"' ·Notre Dame's gallant team.They 
But--a·nd this ·is the burden .of · Kennedy. Fr. Engleton sang the Veit, Stephen Feldhaus, RayFoery, Buck McFadden, Rick Schlee( ~· still haven't . been beaten this .. my .Ietter-c~llege hockey is in-Mass and eulogized Kennedy be-. . Bill Siska, Tom Anderson, Pat Strickler, and, Jim Elliott _.1, year. disputably a whale of a sport, fore a congregation of Austrians · Sports Editor:, • i , , : • ,.••• , , • , ·•• , ; .George Krusz.ewski \~.
With best wishes, 




for participants and spectators and Americans, Sports Staff:. ~ ·, • , , , , , •.•Joe Ryan, Mike Mooney, Mike Read, Dan · -:. •... ··.·.!_ Donald R. Feltey 
alike•.It may ,vell be the fastest Football and basketball teams · Ferguson, Bob Campbell, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger growing collegiate sport, Cer-have been organized.. The Notre Business Manager:.:; ...... ,., • , • ,· ••• , , •••••· .JohnO'Ha.nlon ~Major USAF 
Richards-Gebaur AFB tafnly it has evoked great in-,. Dame football team in Indiana Advertising Manager:••••• , •• ; • , •• ;·, ••• ~ ••••• Ken Socha. , " terest .in the East, · The annual may have fared well, but here on Advertising Salesmen:•• ,; • ~ •• ~ , •••••Cregg and Roger Barron t-
Missouri .E.C.A.C, Christmas Holiday the East Campus the season re-· Copy Editors:,., •·,, .. , • , • , • , , , , .Bill ~tz, LouBartoshesky J • Dear Editor, tournament draws better thanthe. cord is 0-1. We lost a well played Layout Editor:•••••• , ••••• ~ , ;·, _-, , •• , ; ••• ·• Dennis Kerri -t. .. 1: , . an· behalf of the Hockey Club, I · Rangers,' Pee. Wee. hockey is game to a team of American se-.Assistant Layout ·Editor:•••••••• ~,.· •• , , •.•••••Neil-Dowen -~-:I_' . would like to clarify some of.the feeding budding Relivaaus into minarians, 18'."2• Our basketball Layout Staff:•••• ; ••••••• ; •·...... '.Dave Griffin,·Steve Vogel ' ·:>·. 
facts that were presented in the. 
secondary schools the. same way team is already practicing and Proofreader:••••• ·•·•'••• : ••••••••••••·•••John Radosevich •.. ;., r . recent editorial concerning our Litt.le League is producing pre:. 'ho~s for a· betterrecord. Circulation Manager:~· •• ~ •• , ; .~ , •••• , ·• , , , •'u• Ted Purvin -" . \ 
. effo.rts. Even though the sports­
aqolcscent shortstops. The -high·, ; by Dick Veit · ., -· ..... · 
,, 

December 9, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University Page 3 
'l Know How You Feel About Defeat' 
~ 
by Bill i\letz was the most powerful demon­hesitated to sing out "Notre House Monday night knowthatthe 
"Through the past season I saw how you felt a­stration of spirit that we have Dame, Our i\Iother, '' stronger Notre Dame spirit isneitherelu­bout success, I hoped I'd never have to know how witnessed in the last four years, than ever before, and no one sive nor the real. It is a very you felt about defeat. But tonight you've shown me The ovationthatwegaveArawhen could resist the soft spontaneous real, shoulder -to -shoulder how you feel," he first entered wasn't just long chanting of the Victory March as bumping together offive thousand 
Ara Parscghinn, Nov. 30, 1%4 and loud, it waselectrifying. The he departed into the night, guys who share completely great figure that we saw standingbefore hopes and great disappointments,
There will always be a touch of The night was snowy and cold, The sense of unity of students melancholy fo1: the 1964 National and it wouldn't have been un­and team, which had been growing 
us wasn't a defeated coach. who who accept them with humility had just missed greatness; itwas and who will always --in the
Championship that might have reasonable to. expect very few for ten weeks reached a fitting been, but in defeat an aspect of people to come to cheer for a the figure of a handsome, still climax on November 30. Jim last analysis--carrythemselves powerlul man who was a little with dignity. 
Notre Dame has become apparent team· that had lost in the final Carroll sensed it strongly, and 
more mellow after seeing ''how This spirit can never be cap­
which we would never have seen moments --had "clutched/' he spoke well for himself and the in any other way, The pep rally But everyone who was there team when he said that "The
the students feel about defeat.'' tured on paper because· it can The team sitting in the balcony never be sparatedfrom the minds 
held one week ago Monday could knows --and those who weren't thing that we are most proud of 
wasn't crushed by itsloss;itwas and the hearts of the people who 
have been almost morbid after should hear --that the gathering is that we can be a part of all this, 
a sober, quiet· team which was are Notre Dame. It only rarely
the loss to Southern California, int.he field house on Mondaynight of you out there," At that mo­
../ .,. 
just beginning to realize in what rises close en·ough to the surface
ment no one could doubt the pri­

sense it was truly great, No one in each of us to be recogniz.ed
vilege of being a part of "you

apologized for defeat. Indeed, no and known for what it is. Last
out there.'' No one could denyapology. would have been accepted Monday night that spirit rose to
that he felt something of the real 

because to apologize would have the surface through five thousand 
unity of Notre Dame. 

been to contradict what we had The Notre Dame. spirithasbeen people until it became evident to gathered to demonstrate Monday evident to everyone present that
often questioned and discussed in night: "You' re still number an effort to define its elusive, · this --in a very unique way -­one." · ethereal qualities, But the IX!Ople is Notre Dame. 
Somehow both pride in success 
who were present · in the Field 

and humility in defeat were real­ized at the Field House that Mon­day night, You could sense it in the way Jim Carroll spoke, in
" 
the way each of the players carried himself, and in the atti­tude of the student body, It made you glad to be a part of the whole thing. No speakers were inter­rupted, and no single members of the team were called to the microphone by the crowd. At the end of the rally, no one 
Oldest Priest Dies At 93 Circle Plans Glee Club To Hold Concert 
Caroling 
All the old Christmas standards Pa., sponsored by the local Lions

i ted with persuadingKnute Rockne 
'~ Rev. Joseph A, .Maguire, C.S,C,, plus numbers ranging fromcom-Club, who also accompaniedthem 
to remainas a chemistryinstruc­
the oldest priest at Notre Dame The Blue Circle will spread the posers as widely diversified as on a tour of the local coal. mine 
tor following his graduation, An­
_died December 1 in Holy Cross Notre Dame Christmas spirit Bach and Aaron Copeland, will and the brewery, And capitaliZ­
other of his celebrated students
House on the campus. Hewas93, _ throughout South Bend thisweek-resound in Washington Hall Mon­ing on the free day yesterday,
was. Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland,
and had been a priest nearly sixty­end with its annual program of day night as the NotreDame Glee. they made a four-day concert
C.S,C, who developed thefomula
eight _years. Christmas caroling and parties. Club presents its annual Christ-tour of Ohio last weekend.
for synthetic rubberandforwhom
Father Maguire, who came to Hernan Puetes is chairman for mas concert at 8:00 p.m. 
t.he science hall is named.

Notre Dame as a seminarian se­the caroling _program which will The concert will featurethetrio 
Grants Aid Research

_For approximately fifteen years
venty-eight years ago, remem­send 350 ND and SMC students in of John Fisher, Mike Ambrose,
after leaving Notre Dame, Father Notre Dame has receivedtwelve
bered the University's founder,. groups of 30 caroling through and Dick Leonhardt singing se­-Fr. Sorin, who dies in 1893, ··He various 'parts of ·rown on Friday lections from "Guys and Dolls"
Maguire was associatedwith Saint grants totaling $335,000 in recent Edward's University in Austin.
also recalled that the gold dome night, and "West Side Story," weeks, accordingto FrancisBrad Texas, serving as its president
atop the Administration Building In the part some residents have Besides the usual Christmas ley, the University research ad­
from 1934 to 1937. As recently
· was first gilded the yearhe arri­invited groups into their homes. carols, including "Carol of the ministrator. . ved at Notre Dame, as 1953 he taught theology coursef: for hot chocolate and doughnutsin Bells," the more classical num­Dr. Morris Pollard, director of 
at Notre Dame; since then, he had 
. As head '.of the. chemistry de­an exchange of hospitality, After . bers in the program will be pre­Lobund Laboratory, has been a­. partment from 1897 to 1920, Fa­been living in retirement in Mo­caroling for an hour or so, the sented by the Glee Club for the warded $56,000 fromtheNational 
reau Seminary.

ther Maguire is generally credi-groups will return to the Rath-first time on campus. Institutes of Health, which also 
.. 
On Thursday,-Dece-mberlO, 1964 skeller to conclude · the evening. -In addition to preparing for this handed out some $108,ono to _Continued from page -1 the Committee on International On Sunday, PhilHaighthasplan-concert, the singing group has members of the. biology depart­Relations will present a lecture ned three parties, two in -the made two recent tours. Over ment. The chemistrydepartment morning, then I seriously doubt by L. G.A. Schlichting, Professor afternoon for children, plus one Thanksgiving vacation, they vi­received 6 awards for $97,000, 
that she could remember to take of Political Science at Nijmegen in the evening at the St, Joseph sited Pottsville and Shamokin, and 2 engineering professors a pill every·· day for twenty days University in the Netherlands. Home for the Aged, were given grani:s worth$74,000. either. There has to be proper 
motivation." . After an explanation of .various 


discount record shops 
methods of birth prevention, Dr. Kenck explained some of the eth­ical problems a doctor has. 
''When .a patient tells me her 


r * * 

ANY L.P. ALBUM
confessor has given her pennis­sion to use the pill,'' he said, "It IN THE STORE 
DIAMQND NEEDLES I 

puts me in a very awkard posi­tion. I feel that I should be bound by what · the Pope says. It au· 
l!'· snss AtTh,
llct i'J Unheard $38.8

seems to come down to a question· 
· of 'who's in charge here?'." J _ Price of l "I feel that the Catholic Church would be derelict in its duty if it _Jleft ·fertility regulation -and its choice of methods completely up . to the indi:Vidual conscience," Dr, *** Barrett said, speaking on the so­ciological asrccts of the problem. ''But I am an ardent advocate of birth regulation." WHEN YOU BUY ONE IN SAME 

Dr. Barrett said that there are PRICE RANGE AT THE REG. many questions that he feels the MFG. SUGGESTED LIST PRICE Church must answer. A nation must look ahead 20-40 years in its planning, he said, but in what sense is a couple ''permitted to limit births by legitimate means, · to assist 'others?" Further, he 
disco 
asked, should a coupleintheU.S. limit their fertility to help .r,eo;. .. 
WEEKDAY STORE HOURS:

ple in India? i-Jow far are we ••our 
Op ¦ n Mon,, Thurs•., Fri. 9;30 to 8:30

brothers' keepers?" .214 so~ MICHIGAN ST. ..233-4585 
Tuea., Wetf,, Sat. 9:30 to 5:30

! 0·1:. Dupre' and Dr. Higgins both 
I ... 
came to the conclusion that the 
l 
-.:.,'. 
best solution that could come out I ? of the Council would be granting 
I ,. 
freedom of the individual con­! ,,,. -. 'science to ali marriedCatholics. 
-.:· 


' 
, J' 
1 
l 


Page 4 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University December 9, 1964 
Slim Doberman Becomes Mardi Gras Mascot 
Dolly and Doberman ha~ made The Mardi Gras Carnival will Ragone stressed, are that ~nyone 
that each book soldearnsthe sel-Mardi Gras activities began

their appearance ori campus this open Feb. 24, the Wednesday be-selling ten books of tickets will 
ler $2.50 and a chance on the two several weeks ago, with the Harry

week. Althoughtheiridentitywas fore the weekend;assortedclubs, receive a free bid to the ball and 
Mustangs and the Bermuda trip, Belafonte concert. · 

concealed for a while, they have classes and halls will erect 
been found out as the "mascots" booths in the Stepan Center in an of this year's .Mardis Gras. attempt to simulate the color of Doberman was supposed to look New Orleans during the festive 
S_tudents Receive $1 Million
as his name implied, and the first time. They also will try to sep. 
sketches showed him short and arate vi.sitors from their money, fat, but grotesque at the same for their: own profit and for that scholarships to other schools or the reasons Notre Dame does·not time, so he receivedthe sleeka!)-:-of Mardi Gras. The carnival will By John ·Buckley simply chose another. "The top award undergraduate · scholar­pearance that will aboundonpos-also be open on Feb. 25 and 27 Notre Dame students receive Catholic students are stillchoos-ships to married students. The ters, brochures and flyers until and March L nearly $1 million eachyear ofex-ing the Ivy League for college.'' College Scholarship Service pro-1.'Aardi Gras actually takes place, Peter Palmer and his Voices pendable student aid, according This year, around 225 students vides information on the parent's over the weekend of Feb, 26 to will provide the music for the to Rev. J ohseph W. Hoffman are receiving university scho-ability to support the student in 
28. Mardi Gras Ball Friday in the C.S.Ci, acting Director of Schol-larships, ranging 1n amounts college, Legally, andusuallyact-
The grand pri:zeinthe raffle, the North Ballroom (the north dining arships. ·This includes scholar-from $700 to $?000 perye'ar, Up-ually, the parents cease to sup­major money-making venture of hall converted to a dance floor ship awards and student jobs, but perclassmen's grants average port a married son except for oc­the weekend, will be a 1965 Thun-for the night), excludes loans. $1100. Another 400 or so students casional doles, derbird. This week all students Saturday, Feb, 27, will begin Fr. Hoffman suggested anew as-have been awarded scholarships Notre Dame draws top students. have. received chances 10 sell 0_ with 8 Champagne Brunch at Rob-pect concerning-the idea of schol-from outside sources, such. as · But to cope with the competition ver Christmas vacation. The ert's Supper Club, followed by a arships, He spoke of thecompe-· the National Merit Corporation ·Fr.Hoffman described, scholar­committee is stressing sales concert withtheSerendipitySing-tition betweenschoolsfortopstu-or.local alumni clubs. 'One hun-ship program needs _expansion, now, Since the shortened semes-ers and ·the Oscar PetersonTrio, dents,: and mentioned schools who dred students are receiving full "Notre Dame is actually a rich ter break will keep many students in the Morris Civic Auditorium. "buy .up" these scholars, But scholarships in the Regular Navy man's school, If a student needs from selling them at home atthat On Sunday, the Communion Break the philosophy on scholarships ROTC program. a large amount of money, much 
time, fast in the North.Dining Hall, will here is that a student shouldn't There are few regulations gov-more than the tuition and promise -Student prizes will be two 1%5 mark the official closing of the be paid to come to Notre Dame, erning scholarship winners, They of a job we can give him, we often Ford Mustangs and a one-week weekend. Notre Dame, alongwithover250 must maintain a 3,0 average to . will discourage him from coming trip to Bermuda for two. An ad-Dick McCarthy is general chair-other colleges, subscribes to the . retain four-year grants and to be here, u said Father Hoffman. "If ditional trip to Bermuda for two man of Mardi Grasforthe second _principles ofthe College Scholar-eligible for renewals. If scholar-he does come, he will probably has been tentatively set as the year, and he heads a staff of a-s_hip Service, a subsidiary of the ships are for one year, the stu-last for a. while on what we give prize for St, Mary's. round 100. Ontheexecutivecom-group that administers the Col-dent must reapply and enter sel-him, use up what money he has 
The proceeds from lvfardi Gras mlttee with himareStanAntongi-lege Board Exa~nation~. Af~er. ection competition with the rest saved and borrowed, and finally are apportioned to a scholarship ovanni, executive chairman: Dick studying a confidential financial of the eligible students. have to drop out after a couple of fund, op:;rating exp:mses forStu-Ragone raffle chairman· Karl statement filed by the parents of Scholarship holders must live years. It would be betterforhim dent Government and the Student King, b~siness manager, a~dRick · s~holarship candidate, the ser-on campus. "Since they are the to go to a state school, forexam­Center and, through a charity Devlin,publicrelationschairman. vice reco~mends the amount of top students, they will naturally ple, where he would have less chest administered by Student Also assisting are Joe Schlos-scholarship award that will be be the leaders in their campus worries about financing." Government, to variouschad':ies. ser, special arrangements: John needed by the parents to se~d life. Theyare already good scho-At the present time, about 12% of 
Last year, MardiGrasnettedal-Moye, publicity chairman; Dave their son here. The Current es-. lars; they must become good men, the undergraduate students here most $30,000, around $20,000 Rosbrook, ball chairman: Dan timate of annual expense is· sharing in the responsibilities of are on scholarships of some sort, from the raffle alone. The goal· Morello, executive secretary, & $2, 7000 plus travel. their -life here, becoming good . A goal for Notre Dame's future for the raffle this year has been John Munson, carnival chairman. C.S.S. considers· that a student school citizens," FatherHoffman is to· bring this percentage up to set.at $30,000, · The incentivestosellingtickets, should beabletoearn$300asum-exolained. one-third of the student body, 
, mer to be·applied to education, Also, they asked towriteletters More immediately, Fr.Hoffman Meanwhile, backatNotre Dame, to their benefactors, once a se-is hoping to add 25 scholarships
·Most Cadets Rejoin ROTC 
· about 25% of the applicants for mester. ".This can mean a great worth $1000 apiece each year for admission also applyfor scholar-deal to the students themselves, four years as a result of the 
From early tabulation, tie plans of the· cadet; a further re­ships, Usually over 100 of these to the school, and to others, Since ·~hallenge 11 program. Thiswould change in present enrollment in flection on how the time spent in have college board scores of 700, ·scholarships are actually a form· require an endowment' of $21/2 the three NotreDame ROTC units the service would affect his car-. or better. . . of charity, those who contribute million at 4% interest, .. 
. due to the new ROTC contract is eer future; ·or the fact that con­. A grade is given to the applicant them like to learnthat theirfunds ·. Expanding on this idea, Fr. Hoff­slight, . . .tinuation iri the program would for his board scores, his high are being used profitably, man points outtha~ "These scho­Lt, Col, Blakely stated that of not be compatibie with plans fo: school marks and otherinforma-' "Many nationalfirmscontribute · larships ·would enable Notre 47 senior and 38 junior AFROTC future higher education.. tion containedin both his scholar-scholarships; this is-not their Dame to make scholarship offers cadets, 40 senior~ have signed, Saturday December 12, marks ships application andhisadmiss-· business,-but they do like to be to a large·range ofverygoodstu­leaving only five who haverefus-. the deadline ·for signature of.the ion folder. Then the students are· remembered.". Father cited a. dents, in the -6?0 to 680 bracket ed to sign and two who are asyet new .contract by all Junior and listed according to their grades, case in· which a letter from a on the college boards, ·whom we undecided. In the Junior class, Senior cadets wishing tocontiriue The scholarship committee goes ·Notre Dame student on scholar-can't cover now; Notre Dame only one of 38 has refusedto'con-in their .respective corps. Signed down the list, awarding the a-ship. reached the president of does .get top .students, but.our tinue. · by Pres. Johnson on October 13, . mount recommended by CSS, General Motors. "This demon-scholarship program cannot 
In the AROTC, out ofl45 seniors 1%4, it includes a monthly pay "until the money runs out," stration of the benefits deriving handle them all, . 15 have declined with five doubt-raise, higher .summer camp and When the scholarship service .from the scholarships, since the "These additional scholarships• fol candidates. Of the 85 junior travel pay and other }?enefit in-. indicates that.a-student needs no, letters areusuallyquitewelldone would also enable us to draw AROTC cadets, four have refus­. creases,. assistance, theuniversityawards .will encourage the benefactorsto ,more good science andengineer­ed signature, This, according to But. more importantly the new . honorary scholarships. "Some-continue their support.'' . · ing studen~s;''forwhomcompeti-Col. Stevens is "believed to be contract binds the: cadet to com­times the prestige of being able Father Hoffman also discussed tion with such schools as MIT is below the national average/' pulsory non-commissioned ser­to go home and say he has a especially fierce," · 
In the NROTC; according to vice in his respective service scholarships is enough to make Capt. Wiemer, of the 63 seniors branch should he wilfully violate­
a student choose Notre Dame," c ll Of s • ·
· · 

and juniors in the corp affected the contract. 
~~!:!i;::!:~n~n:r:\:!es:~~: .•. ·. 0 ,ege ·. _ c1ence
by the legislation, well over half 
have already signed, and not one A collection wili be taken up next 
a bloc ofapplicants afterthe funds · 
midshipman to date has made Stmday, December 13th, after all the Masses in Sacred-Heart ~~:ex:~~t, hopingthattheywilll 

Plans May Centennial.

known his refusal to sign. . -. , -The reasons given by those ca-Church and Kennan-Stanford 
Last year 20 honoraries were 
dets for refusing to sign are as Chapel, to answer a special plea offered, but .only five were ac-. The College of·Scienceisplann­
l·ng several spec1'aleve.ntsonMay laboratories of the College of··numerous as the number of re-for financialhelp fromFr,Scho­ceptM, Often the one·s who de-· -

. fusals, But basically they con-mber, C.S.S. R., a missionary clined them were awarded cash · 14 anq 15, to observe its I00than-· Science. Undergraduate students . working in the urban slums of Fu-niversary, Highlight of the spec-will conduct toursfortheUniver­
sist of: . a change_ in the.marital e rto Rico, . . 
ial weekend will be a speech by a _sity' s. guests to partially fulfill distinguished scientist and hu.:. the goal of having a high degree

Debaters Do Well 
manist. . of student participation. The NotreDame debate team ha~ •The speech.will be the majore-ln addition· to this activity in 
fared well in tourneys held inthe vent in the weekend's concluding May, other plans are being laid past month at· Purdue, George-convocation to be held at Stepan to commemorate the College of town and New Mexico, Center on. Saturday night. The Science's centennial. Dr. Milton 
On November 15-17, the team of speaker's identity. has not yet Burton, who is in charge ofthe ·Larry Petroshius and John Roos . been announced by Rev, Theodore . centennial observance, expects competed in the Purdue tourna-J'v1. Hesburgh, C.S.C.. . "great. emphasis on science ment, against 60 schools, and Other activities are also planned throughout the year". Inthis con­came in third. More recently, for the weekend. OnFridayeven-nection spring commencement over, Thanksgiving, Notre Dame in'g several reports on the history may be science oriented. : was amongll6 schools represent-of science at Notre Dame will be Also severalcentenniallectures ed at the Georgetown tourney. Ho-given. Then on Saturday morning will be heid, and'exhibits will be ward Dooley andJimCavnarrea-scfence department heads will displayed not only in the depart­ched the octo-finals, and Roos and describe current research. These ments and laboratories but also 
Petrosh!us made it tothequater-reports, five or six in number, hopefuJ.lyinthe Memorial Library finals before losing a 3-2 dee-·should last about 25 minutes with The theme. of Universal Notre ision; Among the schools having some discussion. The reports Dame Night essentially:will con­2 teams at· the meet, Notre will be on high levels but pre-cern science at Notre Dame, and Dame'.s combined scorescame in sented in such a way that those the groundbreaking for the new first. . not expert in the areawill be able · Life Science Building may be in­This past weekend, De~ember to follow. Both the Friday even-corporated as partoftle program· 
3-2, · Petroshius and Jim Magana 1ng and Saturday morning events .In the spring both the "Science ·debated at the University of New will be held in,the Library Audi-Quarterly'.' and the Notre Dame : Mexico. The Notre Dame· team . torium. · magazine sent · to University 
staged an exhibition .match with · Saturday afternoon's activities alumni a:rid friends· will observe Stanf9rd,· then came in_third inthe will feature exhibits anddisplays the College ofScience's centen­competion. in the various departments and nial. · 
' 

e 

::, 



.,. 

,:. 
./

..i. 
December 9, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University Page 5 
ISO Holds Party 

The International Student Or­ganization, under the direction of Rev. Thomas O'Neill, C.S.C., Foreign Students Advisor, ,will have a Christmas dinner· and 
...,_ party Dec, 13 in the North Dining 
s Hall. The foreign students will present the Christmas foods and customs of their different coun­tries,
1.s.o. has also recently opened an ~nternational Room in the Stu­dent Center, with publications in many languages ayailable. 
William Staszak has been a­ 
_warded the Borden Freshman  
.,r ~  Prize for achieving the highest  
freshman scholastic average for  
last year.  
...  
who?  
who?  
:a  none but  
;  you,you  
..,',._  
.,  
~  
~­ 
.,,  


·john Sheehan listens intently as Prof. John hleagher grieves o• ver the imminent death of the Queen in "'Escurial." The lmperson• al Pronouns Production was staged in the Biology Auditorium. 
• (Voice Photo by John Sawyer) 
Impersonal Pronoun Productions 
•Presents Trio OJ-Belgian Plays 
by Jack Quin~ this resi:ecc. The "Blind Men'' was a memor­
Impersonal Pronouns Produc­able sketch whose melancholy hu­tions is at it again. Thisunaffili­mor was laughable and touching. ated theater club majoring in the It dealt with three blind pilgrims 
'.'avant garde", presenteditsfir­who bungled along together st offerings of the year last Wed-through an encounter with a one­nesday. · eyed king of the ditch country, It Advertised as "informal in the • 
was a both lovable and sad crew. extreme", the affair was as pro­• 'E scurial'', though weakened by mised: a shirt-sleeved audience an extended high emotional pitch, 
sat on the stone tiers, no chairs was powerful and well done thanks having .been provided, The pro­to exceptional acting jobs by John duction made the best of these Sheehan and Prof.: John Meagher unpretentious surroundings, how­of the English Department, ever, and though ragged in gene­The production, even with its ral, it showed a good deal of im-ragged edges, showed that it had . agination and a few standout act­been carefully thought out from ing jobs among the mediocre. 
· printed notes to recorded music. The three one-act plays were 
Impersonal ·Pronouns, though poetic dramatic sketches written . still in the painful process of dis­covering what it can do, still is·
_to depict a dramatic moment or · one of the_ best exhibitions of. 
a fleeting mood. The last two of these plays, ,;The Blind lv1en" and creative initiative on campusand promises to become better.
"E scurial, " · y.ere successful in 
old co on t 


Law Day Held Tomorrow 

Notre Dame's Law School will group, should find the discussions conduct its twelth annual ''Law stimulating. Day" in the Law Auditorium to­Father Hesburgh, university 
morrow, with sessions are re­president, will formally open the commended, of course, for those sessions with a brief address of undergraduates who are interest­welcome. Following this will be ed in a law career, but others, es­various discussions, including pecially the large "undecided" one on the aspects of criminal law by a former member of Sen­ator-elect Robert Kennedy's


Car Show 
staff, A model contracts class will also be held, under Law Pro­A general student committee fessor E. T. Murphy, givingvisi­
will arrange theSportsCarSpec­
tors an idea of what a law student tacular; originated last year by actually studies.

the Detroit Chili, Proceeds will Discussions will be held on threebe donated to the University's 

of the· "extra-curricular'' acti­

Challenge 11 Program. 
vities of the LawSchool,including The show will take place April the Law Review, the Student Law24 and 25 in Stepan Center, Gary Association and the well-knownKohs, chairman, plans to repeat 
Moot Court.
last year's showing of sports and Arrangements for the day have competition cars and styling pro­been handled by third year law totypes. 
.student John Gottlick, who saysOther executive committee that while the emphasis of themembers are Larry Wind, busi­program will naturallybe onNot_; 
ness manager, and assistant re Dame Law the theme will bechairmen Tony DeLorenzo and law in general,Greg Obloy. 
Wind has announced that posi­tions are open -for advertising salesman for the .show' s program 

123 
and for members of the publicity 
pand decorations committees. In A
addition, he says, typists and 
N
printers are needed. 
G 


-,-PUsuccAFETEruAt 

-South Dining.Hall I llEY FELLOWS I ·SODA FOUNTAIN f 
LOOK US OVER
I Mon, thru Fri. I
I i
7:30 A.M.-9:30 P.M. 

ARMY~NAVY 
Di~<'<,unl Center 
:{20. S. Mid~iµan 
lllEET_ Gus & KenF · Lar~est Selection 
• . • • I




lif,(lffillilIBlDra1 
.. ~rHPLUS ITE:\IS
enrich YOUR 
educational 


Toques--------Sl.29

b_ackgrounci with 
·Watch Caps, Navy -· Sl .29 Novy S2arves. ---S .99


BARNES & NOBLE 
Army Ponchos ---S2.99
COLLEGE. OUTLINE 
Army Parkas-_ ---S14.99 

-SERIES 
Novy Shoes ----• S6.99 Engineer Boots---$11.99 Combat Boots • ---S9.99 Gloves, Shell, pner-S3.99 . 
. famous educational paperbacks over 100 titles on the 


CHECK TIIIS
following subjects: 

FLEXIBLE 
ANTHROPOLOGY 


LAY-A-W''A Y 
ART 
;:en i:i\SSSi%S\SS%S BUSINESS 
B~9 .Fleece Lined · 40"
DRAMA 
ECONOMICS . 
Parka --------$22.99 
Air Force Flight Jackets
EDUCATION 
ENGINEERING 
---• --~ -> • --$15.99 
ENGLISH 
Tanker Jackets --S9.99 
· GOVERNMENT 
Rain Parkas% Light $4.99 
HISTORY 
LANGUAGES 
Sweat Shirts ----Sl ;49 
LITERATURE 
Sweat Pants -----Sl.99 
MATHEMATICS 
Winter Caps Sl.99 & $3.99 
MUSIC 
Wellington Boots Unlined
PHILOSOPHY 
& Lined -S9.99 & $14.99
PSYCHOLOGY 

Rubber Thermal Boots i
SCIENCE 
SOCIOLOGY' 

---------S4.99 S9.99 ! I
SPEECH 

Leather Thermal Boots j 
STUDY AIDS 
------------S14.99 
l
On Display at 
Fleece Lined Boots S14.99 
.The N~trc Dame 



AR1\1Y-NAVY 
Discount Center
Bookshop 320 S. l\lichigan .. So. Bend, Ind. 

232-84,77 '.'l 001" UNUSUALJTElUS 

. 
} 
:""".
,. -,­
~ -~~ 
·/. 
.. 
• 
. ~.:~ 
'. ·-t' 
t 
•
1n 


Post-Grad 
·-slacks by







hai. 


You're the epitome of wisdom when you choose these long­and-lean pants.They trim you up and taper you down. Post­Grads are·the sine qua nonof campus styles because they're absolutely authentic. Neat belt loops. Narrow-but­not-too-narrow cuffs. Shaped on-seam pockets. You can look perfect for a pittance since they cost but $6.98 a pair·in 65% Dacron* 35% Cotton. Buy 'em andwoooo ! 
•ou Pont's Reg. TM for its Polyester Fiber 
Page 6 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University December 9, 1964 dents,On Hitch-Hiking A long range plan of the Knipper ~rtinent information about rules, committee is a package of letters regulations and requests of the from Fr, A, Leonard Collins; owners and managers. Mayor Lloyd Allen, and the stu­Kniprx:r explained that this
Police Chief Agrees To Plan 
dent Government office, and a elaborage system of regulations By Pat Strickler The result of this luncheon was while using the accommodation, questionaire about the motel own­was not necessitated by general to set up a plnn whereby motel or to place an advance deposit ers' regulations and other data, bitterness of owners toward ND 
Work continues in the Student managers will know who exactly for damages which might be done, which will be mailed to all area students, but out of a need for Government committee for the is using their accomoclations, A Motel owners will be given a stu­owners whose facilities students them to protect their own inter­improvement of Notre Dame-Triplicate form now in use which dent directory so they may be able might have cause to use, ests against a predicatable mi­South Bend relations, As of last requires student activity leaders to defend themselves against This package will produce a file nority who periodically cause 
Wednesday, two areas of "gown ~o ap~ly for ~kays by_t\vo admin­false identification by some stu-at Notre Dame which will have all damage, · 
and town" relations were descr .1strat1on officers will give the and town" relations were de-managers an assurance ofidenti­scribed as "much improved." fication,_ . _ 
Paul Knipper, committe chair-The_ tnphcate form ?e.ed& o:uy man, said that _problems in be signed ~y two odmm~strat1on hitch hiking and in obtaining mo-men; the third unused slip on the tel rooms for either week ends form will be sent to the motel, Or aftern h 
hotel, or lodge manager whose 

oons were eac pro-_ . . . . 
gressing toward ameliorated fac1ht1es the student group1sus­feelings between the studentsand ing. local officials.-While this system will be used , A third p.:irt of the committee's for large gatherings, ~rhapsex­work, setting up a plan for stu-tending late into the evening, an­dents to eat dinner in the homes other problem was discussed. of South Bend families over This involves the use of a motel · 
Thanksgiving vacation, was said room for an afternoon of football to be a success. Six"ty-fivc stu-watching, or some similar acci­dents ate dinner in South Bend vity. 
homes, and there 40 unfiled in-Students interested in such acti­
vitations. vities need not secure .the tripli­. South I3end Police Chief Irving cate form, but will only be re­Hampton attended last \Vednes-quired to sign a shorter form at : day's meeting between the city the motel, These forms will be representatives and students on circulated to those places which the Knipper. committee. He was agree to house students, Together agreeable to a plan offered by with this signature, a student may 
· the committee which would set be asked to give up his lD card _ up designated hitch hiking posts for ND stUdents at several key locations~ On Dec. 17, the traf­

JOBS 

fic engineer of the city and ·com-Are you a Senior who can reach mittee member Marty Stamm will your classmates? Will you help tour the town and make lfmore -them expose their talents, frain­final decisions about the lo-ing andcle sires to diversifiedem­cations." . players throughout the nation? Hampton indicated that South Our new and unique computer­Bend might erect the posts at based service reports qualified their own cost. Progress with students to recruiting employers this plan will be reported on Jan. and we need a student agent to 
·6, when the committee meets distribute our forms during ear-next, Chief Hampton will be at ly December.· -· that meeting. 
In regard to improved feeling Set your own hours. Easy, no· between the school and motel and order--taking, no money handl­hotel managers, a hmcheon was 
ing, no reports--but very LUC­RATNE. . .

held more than a week ago at the Town Tower motel. Attending were the city representativeswho 
For complete information, -write met with the student government 
immediately to Sven B. Karlen; committee, that committee itself, 
President, Q E DCenterlnc., Box and several representatives of 147, Bronxville, N, Y, 10708 area hostelries, 
DOUBTING THOMAS? 
HOPEFUL AGNOSTIC? 
Christianity has more to offer than hope. it has positive proof in the form of a MIRACLE which was foretold, described and is intensely · personal. Ask the Religious Leaders·or send me a ·card marked ESP-17. My reply is free, non-Denominational.· Christian. Martyn W. Hart, Box 53, Glen Ridge. N. J. 07028 (USA).. • 
-·This card will save you money on· Christmas vacation 

(Get one free_from your S.M.O.C.) 
Richard McCarthy, 205 Walsh Hall Phone Ce -4-6690 
Your Sheraton Man on Campus has a free Sheraton Student ID . Card for you. (If you're faculty, ask for a Faculty Guest Card.). With it you'll get discounts on room rates at Sherat6n Hotels and Motor Inns all over the world. Even In single rooms. (With . two or three in a room, you save even more.) Good Deal. 
Get in touchwith your'S.M.O.C.: 
-95SheratonHotels& MotorInns 
HOLY CROSS Priests Brother~ 
"' Teachers * Office and '* Manual
* 
Missionaries 



* Parish Priests * Teachers
* 
Preachers * Workers

* 
Chaplains * Missionaries 

* 
Writers * Social Workers 


United States France Brazil India Uganda Canada Italy Chile Pakistan Ghana Haiti Spain Peru Liberia 
visit or phone (28,t-6385 or 284-64,97): Father William Melody, C~S~C., St_. Josei;h Hall 
ore on t eway ,every day! Thanks for waiting! 
Your wait for one of these new 1965 Chewolets is about over-and we want to thank you for yoiir patience. Come see us now. When you get behind the wheel,. 

It's longer, wider, lower. It's swankier, more spacious. You could 165 Chevrolet mistake it for an expensive car-if it weren't for the price. 

Fresh-minted styling. V8's available with up to 300 hp. A sofrer, 165 Chevelle quieter ride. And it's as easy-handling as ever. · · 

Clean new lines. Fresh new interiors. A quieter 6 and;.V8's
'65·ChevyH 

available with up to 350 hp. Thrift was never so lively. · 

"65 Corvair. It's racier, roomier, flatter riding. With more·power available.:_ 
up to 180 hp in the new top-of-the-line Corsas. . · . 
More to see, nwre lo t',,J in tlw cars moie people buy Order anew Chevrolet, Chevelle, Chevy II, Corvair or Corvette now at your dealer's 
., 
t• 
' 

.. 
.~. 
.... 

.-·-• 
~<., 
,,7,.-­
~~ 
-
f 
!: ...,.--:.. 
-::!' 
,_ 
.:. I 
.l ' 
:... 

December 9, 1964 THE VOICE, Notre Dame Univer':iity Page 7 

Ron Reed aims /or two more against Lewis, (Photo by Bill McGuire) 
Meet The Irish 
by Mike Read 
'· 
... 
,· 
;... 
TOM BORNHORST No. 40, 6-4, 205, junior,forward-center. , • 1 Saw limited action as a sopho.:,. more last season appearing in four games, but is expected to play an important role as are­_serve forward-center this sea­son for 60%. , .highly rated as 'a soph from Piqua, Ohio where he ·attended Piqua Catholic High School.·••Captain of '.his football · and basketball squads as a sen:.. ior gaining all-state recognition · in both. • ,an accounting major ·in the College of Business Ad­ministration. 
BILLY O'NEAL No, 34, 6-0, 170, junior, guard, • • .An outside shocting guard who won all-state selection· in both football and basketball as a senior at Speed­way High in Speedway, Indiana •• should see a -considerable amount of action on the hardwood 
··this season. .played against for­mer Purdue star Mel Garland in high school, ; ,enrolled in tne
~t:i:~ of Business Adminis­
-

. JIM MONOHAN No~ 42, 6-3, ISO, Royal Gambit, a play. based oil . sophomore, forward, • Top soph the life of Henry VIII .with his six 
JOHN BERNARDI No. 31, 5-9, 160, sophomore,. guard, Prepped at Toluca, Illinois High School · where he gained all-northern and all-state recognition. .ave­raged 20 points per game as a· senior; • ,a Dean's List student enrolled in the College of Busi­ness Administration. 

JOE VALES No, 36, 6-2, 165, sophomore, guard •• ,Joefollows his brother ·Ray, who earned a, monogram in basketball here at Notre Dame in 1960-61,, .gained all-Catholic and all-city recog­nition in.1962-63 at Iona Prep, • , averaged 22 points ~r game as ·a senior,, ,also a candidate.for ND baseball squad as a pitcher.,, Dean's List Student in the Coll­ege of Business Administration. 


SMC.·Presents· 
· · · · · 



Royal .GtrlJlhit 

prospect on the ·_team and has .: looked ve_ ry impressive in early . season drills·for the ltish. ,Jim follows -. his. father_. and · two brothers (all footballers) to Not­re Dame, • ,averaged 23 points : pet; _game in senior_year at Ar­-cola· High in Arcola, Ill•. • .hon~ arable mention on the' lllinofs all-state team •• ,enrolledinthe College of Business Adminis­
tration. · . . · BOB BENTLEY No. 30, 6.:3, 192, sophomore, guard, , ,Prepped at 
· St. Mary's high school in Clin­ton, Iowa where he gained An.:. Eastern Iowa first team selec~ tion two years in a row. ,possi­wives, will be presented in the Little Theatre by the Drama De­partment of St, Mary's, beginning Thursday. The play wa:s written by the German playwright Her­mann Gress1·eker and ·f• st pe
. . 1r r-
formed in Germany in 1957~ · Sean Griffin will star as Henry VIII, Griffin played Talthybius in the season's opener, Trojan 
Women. · · · : · Henry's wives will be portrayed by: Marilyn E. Petroff as Kata.:. rina of Aragon; Pinks Wilke as Anne Boleyn; Pam Gallagher as Jarie Seyrnou'r; Patricia Harvey ·asAnna of Cleves; Marcella Ly­nyak as Katherine Howard and 




bly a. front_ line guard replace"-. Lynne O'Donnell as Kate. Paar•. ment. ,' .once l1it 52 points in a Performance·s will be at 8:15 in high school game. ,a candidate ·the. Little Theatre at St. Mary's · for the Irish baseball squad as on December. 10,:11,12,14 and 15. -· a pitche·r•• ,an accounting major Tickets are $1,50\md canbepur­in the-College of Business Ad;.: .· chased at· the program office or 
·:. ministration, reserved by_. calling 233-9042. · 
Harriers Upse_t Twice Clark, Coffey, All-Americans 
Led by the fine running of caP­tain Billy Clark, the Irish took second place when they were up­set by Georgetown 52-69 in the IC4A cross country meet in New York. At the final half mile mark. Notre · Dame was leading with Larry Dirnberger as their fifth man in 20th . place. But Larry stumbled and fell as they came down cemetry hill and failed to finish in the running. 
This turn of luck dulled the ef­fect of good races by Clark who was third, Mike Coffey who placed 7th, Ed Dean who grabbed 10th, Bob Walsh whotookl3th, andDick Raemer fifth man and 38th. 
Bob Walsh was also hampered by a strained muscle in his in­step that he had suffered the pre­ceding Friday at the Central Col­legiate meet, · 
Fame came the way of Billy Clark and Mike Coffey as they placed second and sixth.respec­tively in the N,C,A,A. Cross-. country Championships, and were selected as All-Americans. 
Both Bill and Mike ran well de_; spite the snow and cold that ham­pered many runners. Some stre­ches of the course were ice-cov.:. 
ered and othersblockedbydrifts, position of last year by 20 places. But both run with a short, choppy This was Bob's first N.C.A.A. stride and were less affected than meet and despite a worseningin­the taller, long-legged men. jury turned in an excellent ~r­
Next came Ed Dean in 31st and formance. Bill Welch was fifth Bob Walsh in 38th. Ed made a re­man, in 69th, and he, too, was pla­markable recovery from a pre­gued by season-long injuries, season . injury and bettered his 

Preview : Wrestling 
This year's wrestling team will early encounters will be sopho­

be built around agroup of prom-mores Marshall Anders at 123 
ising, but for the most part un-pounds, Arthur Nilsen in the 130 
tried, underclassmen. The squ-pound division, Cetus Willems at 
ad's front line in the eight weight 137 pounds and James Bowers in 
divisions will consist offour jun-the·167 pound division, lnaddition 
iors and four sophomores, to these, sophomore Bill Schickel 
Indicative of the Team's youth will replace the injuredEdBilin­

is junior captain, Dick Arrington. ski in the 167 pound class. 
Arrington, after compiling anin-Returning from last yearwilloo 
dividual record last year of 12 Ken Graf and l'vlike Eiben, in the 

wins, 2 losses and 2 draws, will 147 and 157 ·pound divisions re­
be in contention fornational hon-spectively, and heavyweight Bill 
ors, according to Coach Fallon. Kallal, who along with Neil Pie­
One of his draws last year was trangeli will replace Arrington.at 
with Bob Hopp of Purdue, the 1964 .· the present time. 

N.C.A.A. finalist. However, Ar-As a whole, the team will have rington will be sidelined for the depth and quality as the season opening matches due to a foot in-progresses, except in the 147 and jury he suffered in the U.S,C. 157 pound classes, which have game. only three squad members bet-
Those leading the team in its ween them. 

HOLID 






BARGAINS 


Christmas 

. . --­
SS%%SSSSSSSSSSSSSS%%%SeS%%,,%%S%$%S%%%%SS%SSSSS%\%SSSSSSSSSSS 

Go ·December 15, 16, 17, Return Limit: Jan. 4 
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS%SSSSSSS$%S,S%%%i%%%%%%$$$\%SSSS% SSS\' 
-Round rrip-­Via NEW YORK CENTRAL TO 
·New York ...... . $38.50 Roche~t~r ......... $24.00 Boston ........... . 43.90. Buffalo ............. 20.85 Albany ........... . 34.30 ··Cleveland .... : ...... 12.10 Syracuse '."'.'""""' 27.85 Toledo ....... ; ... ,... 7.15 
AND OTHER DESTINATIONS 
PURCHASE NOW 

,.. NEW YORK 


CENTRAL·· 
.SYSTEM 

. Ti~ket Offic_e, NYC Station, 8:00 A.M. to 11 :30 P.M. 

Page 8 THE VOICE, Notre Dame University December 9, 1964 
What A Difference A Game Makes 

The Notre Dame Swimming cord. But Coach Stark's.optim­Team will open its 1964-65 sea­ism is tempered by the gradua­son this Saturday againstWiscon;. tion of Charles Blanchard who sin University, at Madison. Notre was involved in record perfor­Dame has neverbeatenWisconsin mances on 29 different occasions in sevenyears of Varsity swimm­during his collegiate career, ing, Coach Dennis Starkishope-. · The leading Varsity swimmer ful that this years team will im..; is Senior Rory Culhane, who is prove upon last seasons 5..;5 · re-captain of this years team. A very 

modest young man from Roches­ter N. Y., Roary holds the varsity record fer the 200 yard lndivid­ual Medley with a time of 2:13.5, Another fine swimmer is Tim . Krisl, the leading butterflyer for the past two years. Kristi' stime are 58.8 for the 100 yd. fly, and 
2:14. 5 for the 200. Other top swimmers returning this year are backstrokers Terry Ryan and John Frey; a,nd freestylers Paul Drucker, Ted Egan, and Jack 
Stoltz. 

Several sophomores are seeking positions on the varsity squad. Bill Gehrke, a fine back stroker in high school, now swims the sprint freestyle races.Other sophomore swimmers include Humphey Bo­han. Robert Husson, Jim Mclan­erney, and Richard Strack; 

c:, The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern ·men. He is . , free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to achieve the conversion of 100 million non-Cathol.ic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people -the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own innate talents to help further his dedicated goal: 
e If the vital spark of serving God . through man has been ignited in . you, why not pursue an investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to · God. This can be a vital instrument 
· to help you make the most impor-. tant decision of your life. Write for it today. · 
NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR 
PAULISl FAlHE~S 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 

· · f h
There are two promising res ­men on this. year's team, Mike Cohen and Tom Bourke. Cohen, who swims for the powerfulVes­per Boat Club, duringthe summer months, was an All-American 
breastroker in High school, Tom Bourke, in his first meet against the Varsity, broke the existing pool record in the 100 yard back­stroke, 
.HOCKEY· 

The Hockey Club announced that 
. it hasobtainedthe services of Mr. Richard Bressler as coachfor the 1964-65 season. 
Bressler is a graduate civil en­gineer from Michigan State. He gained his hockey experience while at East Lansing and playing 
by !\1lke Read who engineered the Irishgrldders 
to the breaking of 24 schools re­

In a recent issue, Sports Illust­cords, Dee started an assault of rated noted that "It is impossible his own--and in the second game to ignore the similarities between no less. The Irish basketballers Notre Dame's new football and combined hot ·shooting with their Basketball coaches, Ara Parseg­power break on Friday night to hian and Johnny Dee," Both are rip the nets for 116 points and n 40 years old, each has a wife and new Notre Dame school andfield­three children, and each inherit­house record. In the process they ed a losing team with winning po­also scored a record 66 points in tential • the first half, and dipped into Ball . Well, the basketball season it State's record book to tie the re­but two games old and already cord for most points scored by a Dee has, started· along the same Ball State opponent. trail as his football counterpaxt, Showing a great amount of im­and drawn upafewmore similar­provement over their ragged ities of his own. opening night performance a­
He has started out on a winning gainst Lewis College, Notre note with early victories over. Dame quickly jumped out to a 5-0 Lewis College and Ball State.But, lead in the first 46 seconds, and more notably, like Parseghian removed any hope that Ball State 
Foothall '65, What's In Store? 
by Bob Campbell two did move up with· defensive game, and wound up with only IO 
accolades with the linebacker slot 
points. However, thiswasenoughMany of us are wondering and in mind. These being Jim Yack­

to bring his careertotal to 828 and attempting to anticipate what now (6-2,225) and Mike McGill move him into 12th place among Coach Parseghian will do withthe (6-2, 210).-CoachSefcik was strong the all-time Notre Dame scorers, team next year.-Will he be able in his praise of these two, men­ahead of former Irish star Ar­to mold another offense around tioning that Yacknow played the mand Reo. 

the .available talent which is as. season with a broken hand and With about 10 minutes to play , . i,;, ·; effective, balanced and aggress-as a result did not get a chance 
in the ·game, and the Irish near-'i' ,t·:··II.·
ive as this past season's was? at offense. 
ing the century mark, Johnny Dee Where will he pull his quarter­had a good chance to use his re­

.1

back from -the Frosh, or the One spot which appears to ~ serves for the second time in two !
present candidates? What about wide open at this early date 1s games. Although, theymade many l Jthe defense? Will the loss ofthree fullback.·Therewere no outstand­mistakes, most of them scored. 't "itop linebackers force him to drop ing performances reported on the 
-·-~ 1 
: f 
the present 4-4-3 formation? 

· As we were quick to learn, coach Parseghian has what many feel to be a unique quality, an almost 
clairvoyant ability to concisely and accurately evaluate a player, and, should talent merit, buildan offense around the player rather than the playertothe offense. This in itself throws a new and hope­ful light on what to expect next year. 
Parseghian' s biggest task will be to develop a replacement for Heisman Trophy winnerJohnHu­a rte atQuarterback, Hugh O'Mal­ley and Bill Zloch, neither of whom saw. much action; return from this year's squad, but the need for new blood is obvious. 
From the Freshman team come 
two players who seem to be like..; ly pects One DanKoem·ngs
pros • • ' 
(6 2) ·th ted 
-, moves up Wl an arm ra
"g00d" by c ch George Sef 

as . oa ­
cik, although perhaps a little slow on moves. The other, Thomas Schoen (5-11), appears to have a slight edge on Koenings, being quicker and afine scramblerwith the moves of a halfback. · 
In the halfback position, a strong contingent returns with Bill Wol­ski, Nick 'Eddy and Pete Andre­
otti. From the Freshman team · come three competent boys, Bob Bleir, John Butash, and Tom O'­Leary. Butash adds speed with good hands to the team, and could prove helpful pending full re­
covery from knee surgery which was necessary last week. Bleier is rated •"good" and O'Leary showed promise while playing at 
both offensive and defensive po­
semi-pro in Chicago and Cincin­
sitions llllderpractice conditions,
natti, Ohio. 

and is one of the quickest boys on
On the docket for the traveling . 
the generally speedy squad. · 

squad are matches with Ohio 
Phil Sheridan will return attight
State, Northwestern, Ulinoi s,' 
end, with the possibility of Dan
University of· Colorado, as well 
McGinn, who played behindSnow, 
as the Air Force Academy. Also 
as the flanker. McGinn will most
included are Lake Forest, North­
likely take over the punting
ern Illinois, Wheaton and others.· 
chores with the loss of Snow,
Practice and tryouts for the 
Making the step up, there will not 
team ·are scheduled to begin im­Frosh squad, and the return of .-------------,
Pete Duranko with a 3,6 yard rushing average two seasons ago 
Cyr's &rber ·Shop 
seems evident. 
MICHIANA'S LEADING . BARBER SHOP 
. The interior offensive line will 
100-102 South l\lain Street have Dick Arrington back at guard : Opposite Court House · 
along with thepossibility of John 
South &nd, Imllana 
.Atamain returning for another I 1 
year of play. Bob Nteeker will be 
back at tackle, and Coach Urich 
mentioned the possibilityofmov­
ing Tom Regner from the defen­
sive to .offensive tackle in view 
of the potential he·had shownlast 
Spring at this position. Coack 
Sefcik singled out Freshman Ru­
dy Koniecmy (6-2,220) along with 
Gerald \Visne (6-4,235) attackle. 
Wisne is. currently recovering 
from a knee injurY. At the guard 
slot, Sefcik mentioned.two boys, 
Bill Dainton (6-2,220) and South 
Bender Al Vanhuffel. At the cen­
ter spot., George Goeddeke re­.turns as well as Edward Knack who Coach Sefcik stated"showe.d exceptional ability at. the• offen:. 
sive center position." 
The defensive picture looks 
much more stable, since, only 
three key players will graduate 
in June. The line should remain 
much the same, but opponents 
Will be seeingmoi;e of Page, Har­
dy, andGmitter. All have the ben­
efit of a year's experience. Bol­
stering these positions will be 
Mike Webster arid Mike Wads­worth who suffered injuries this season. Tom Longo, Tony Carey
and Nick Rassas Will all be back, providing supurb talent blended with a vast resource of experi­ence in the defensive secondary. 
At the linebacker position, 
where Jim Lynch andArunasVa­
sys return, the loss of Jim Car­
roll,. Ken tvfaglicic and TomKos­
telnik will place a strain on the. 
'65 team•. Even ~o, Coack R_ay . seemed pleased with the n:iten­al he had and felt. certam that the present system would be sat­isfactory for another year. The additions of Al Lo!JOY and Harry Long will bring depth to the line­

be anyone who distinguished him-. backer and defensive end respec­
mediately after Thanksgivingva-. 
might have had of a tight game, Behind the hot shooting of Jay Miller, and the overpowering re­bounding of Walt Sahm, the Irish, shot out to a 31 point halftime lead and coasted home the rest of the way to their 116-82 triumph. Were it not for the shooting of· Ball State's Doug Reid, who consis;. tently hit his jump shot from 25 feet out for 24 points, the out­come would have been much worse. Individually, Jay Miller played :l his finest game since coming to < ,., c Notre Dame, The 6-5 forward hit • · ). the nets for 26 points in the first J half on 12 out of 15 from the field, ~~ and had he. not been taken out of .1. 


· · the game with thirteen minutes to go when he had 32 points, he might • have made a dangerous assault on ·-~· _J... 
Larry Sheffield' sNotreDarre re--b cord of 47 points in a single 1~:f game. 
Walt Sahm played his usually fine game on the boards snaring 30 rebounds and contributing 23 points. Ron Reed also helped the Irish to dominate bothboardsand hit for 20 points, LarrySheffield with three foul:early in the first half, sat out a good portion of the 



from.,. 

your diomond center 
121 w. wmhington st. 
south bend ·betweenm,chigon.& main we invite your c,ccoonl 


self as_an offensive'?nd,,although. t.ively. , , .______________. 
. cation. 

· Foto News Litho • Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana 







