Senate Prepares Spealier Protest · 
By J hn Sib! . . , revision of next year's calendar, a Senate report from the Student ey speak at the University. _ Harry McDonagh will present the be tentative at this point, which Body President or some other _ In N_ov:mber, the ½iturgical resolution declaring his "viola-schedules the same as this year. member of the Senate be inserted 
The Student Senate in a 2 hour Commission _of _the J~o~ Class tion of the Speaker's Policy" to The stay hall referendum will in the Voice weekly. This would 5 minute session Monday night, sought perrmss1on to mvite Mr•. Father Hesburgh. occur about the third week in insure that the opinion of the stu­heard plans for three February · Rob:1:s to the campus for the The three referendums will con-February. Nick Sardi, chairman dent government reached the stu­:!:~i!~r:::s and consideredfour e~phcit_ purpose of exposition of cern the examination schedule, of the stay hall committee, pro-dent body. No vote will be taken 
his beliefs'. not for a religious the stay hallsystemandtheposs-mises that. there will be suffi-until the next Senate meeti·ng. 
The most provocative action of demonstration. All the c,orrect ibility of personal phones. . cien: descnption of what the plan Spring election dates were the night concerned a declaration _procedures of the Speaker sPol-Tom Mulvihill is preparing a entails to enable the student to settled after spirited debate and that will presently be delivered icy were followed, an_d Father questionnaire to be distributed v~te intelligently. Information a parliamentary snarl. A reso­to Rev. Theodore l'vL Hesburgh, McCarragher was informed. immediately after the semester will be available to the student Iution was introduced that sub­C.S,C, Father Hesburgh has so However, later Father Hesburgh break which will canvass stu-body concerning the nature and mitted April 15 as the election far ignored the Speaker's Policy 1:arned of the situationandvoi_ce_d dent _reaction to the examination reasons for the plan. date for four Senate Officers and of the Senate by not submitting a his refusal to allow the faith-schedule. The schedule is strong-, The Senate conducted its own the individual class and college 
. ~ppear. o . . earen, ly opposed by the faculty, Strong vote on the phone referendum. membP.rs of the Senate. However, 
letter containing his reasons for healer to J hn G not allowing Oral Roberts to Minch_ Lewis, John Philhps and student opposition could mean a Paul Walker introduced the plan counter-proposals of February
and the Senators approved its 25 and March 18 were offered.
'JI'JIJIE submission to the student body. The April 15 date wasconsidered The exact basis for accepting the too near the end of the semester plan has not yet been worked out. February 25 was argued to be to~ . However, 750 phones must be close to Mardi Gras and March installed for the plan to go into 18 was said to be to near the effect. The phone would cost spring vacation and mid-se­

A1'!lJF-X\rlflA"fr m, ~ ID!} Al __ . _-'[![}I $23-~0_per room per semester, to mesters, Of the two alternate
"ALI 

VJJf . J.. V fJl6 Jil., JIQ, ID SU.1:11 J..V,JJJ, llJ,t be divided equally among the oc-proposals the February 25 date cupants of the room. A generally was eliminated when President 


Volume 3, Number·ll [:!11] NOTRE DAME, INDIANA January 20, 1965 heavy vote would insure phones John Gearen broke a 14-14 dead-
in each hall, and particularly fa-· lock in favor of the March 18 vorable acceptance in an indivi-vote, The Senate then voted on the dual hall would insure phones original proposition. It decided there if the vote was otherwise overwhelmingly that the election slight, Seniors will not vote, St, of the Student Body officers :-13-ry• s refuses to revise its pol-should be conducted on March 18 icy of limited telephone privi-and the election of the class and leges. college members of the Senate 
The resolution was made that should be held on April 15asori­ginally proposed. 
Future N.D. Alumni Foundation Trains 
can mean a great deal to us,"23 Notre Dame· seniors began Frick said, "We are talking about finding out last week that there is a multi-million dollar program · much more to be coming a good for development that necessitatesalumni from the viewpoint of the all the participation on the partND Foundation than getting your of our alumni that we canget,andname recorded on a diploma, They so far it's been excellent.''

rush o.f .students to. the libra~y has prompted are the newly chosenmembersof Studying has suddenly become the main ac• ·an o/f,1cial ban on girls studying there, (Photo the Fotmdation' s Senior Project, He went on to explain that mere­
tivity and interest as finals approach, The by Bill McGuire) · . · .ly in order for the University to 
a fresh approach to the problem keep its door open on a status-quo of stimulating an interest in the ha.sis, without expansion or rais­University, particularly the acti­ing salaries, ••means that wevities and programs of the Foun­. must make up between $300,000 


-N.D. Seeks Med.--School. dation. 
and $1,000,000 each year." ThisLast'Tuesday; Jan. 12, the group is after figuringwhatpartendow­
met for the first time at a dinner· tals and also of the medical scie-in the Morris Inn, Fr. Walsh, VP 
Administration officials are at-ty in the new state medical scho-ol · ment, investments, etc~ play in
i
tempt ng to_locate aproposedse-and.Notre Dame entering into' a -ntists employed at Miles Labor· a-paying part of the annual $24,­
for Public Relations andDeveloP­d I di di I h
eon n ana me ca sc ool on contrac_t to incorporate the Notre 000,000 budget, · .
the N t D o·I . , tories, Inc., in Elkhart,; In fact. ment, and James w. Frick, Exe­
.• ore ame campus. iver Dame proposals,·He saidthisav-D Jim Gibbons, Ass't Director of
cutive Director of the Foundation c. Carmichael reported the de-proach "should be the most econ-r. Walter A Compton. president Public Relations and the respon;..
· D , of Mi_les, is chairman of the med-· spoke about problems facing thet il f N
a s o otre ame s proposals omical way of launching the new i 1 sible for the operation of the Sen;.. 
F ·cta ca school_ subcommitteework-Foundation, hopes for the future 
Iast n y at a meeting of the medical school and should prove ing under Mr. Ca_rmichael. and reviews of Challenge 11. ior Project, ran the program.All
C i
omm ttee on Higher.Education very, very efficient.'' other full time members of the
IIThis project you'reinvolvedin 
. in North Central Indiana of which However, Ball State Teachers Foundation attended, including Mr. Carmichael is chairman. College in Muncie isalso seeking James E, Armstrong, Executive
Holy Cross Brothers
A Chicago management consul-to have. the medical school on its Sec't of the alumni ass'cboardof' tant firm has recommended that campus, Reportsfromindianapo­directors. in ap!)roximately ten yearsInd-lis indicate that Ball State has al­Senior Project members include iaria will need a second medical ready done . much lobbying in the Plan_ Building Complex Larry Beshel, · Bob Brugger, Ed. school. Carmichael says that a Indiana legislature. Burke, Nass Cannon, Terry Dai­
· Construction of a new$2.Smill-ilities proViding food serv1ce·in
detailed report including site sel-A bill has .been introduced into ly, Al Dudash and John Gearen. 
fon educational and training cen-a flexible dining room arrange­
ection is expected shortly from the legislature to appropriate Philip Haight, Barry Johanson,
ter for the Brothers of the Con-ment.
the firm, .-· · $100,000 to begin building the Doug Lovejoy and Joseph Mc ear­
gregation of the Holy Cross will At either side of the chapel will 
. The nine-point Notre Dame plan medical school at Ball State im­thy are also members.
begin in April, according to Bro•. be two dormito_ries. The dorm to
essentially involves the long-· mediat~ly, Several legislative Others include: Bill McDonald, 
Donatus Schmitz, C.S.C., provin-the southwillbeSt,JamesHall,
term leasing of 100 to 150 acres colllmittees are scheduledtocon­Paul Meagher,•· Ramon Murphy
cial superior of the Midwest Pro--a SO-room residence for student
of land at a "nominal fee" to duct a joint hearing tonight (Wed.) Hernan Puentes, John Roos, Dave 
vince. brothers and staff. On the north 
serve as the. site for the second to look into the Ball State propo­Schiavone and Nick Sardi, · 
The. · nine-building complex is will be St. Basil Hall, a dual-pur-:­
state medical school, But includ-, sal. Mea_nwhile, . State Senator Marty Stamm, GordonStein,Jim 
expected to be completed during·· pose residence for student re­
ed in the plan are many side be-Leona_rd Opperman,· ·a South Bend Tedford, Steve Walther and Mike 
the summer of 1966 in time to treatants and aspiring brothers.
nef~ts forthe Med school, indicat-Democrat, announced he would Wilsey round out the list. 
open the buildingsforSeptember, A new junior college will be set
ing the Admirµstration wants very request permission for Scutt Seniors were chosen onthebas­
1966. It will be located behind the up _in connection with. the center, 
much to get such a school, _ Bend and Notre Dame represen-is of "academic background, lea­
~resent. Provincial Residence, providing an initial two-year col­
Under provisions of the pro-tatives to testify at the hearing. dE:rship and personality qualities, 
Just to the south of St. Mary's and lege education for the student
posal, Notre Dame would make The Ball State plansforimmed-geographic location, a seasoning
across the highway from Notre· brothers. Thejuniorcollegebui­
iate construction is contrary to of the group with three or four
Dame. . !ding will include a library and 
available one of the unfinished the Chicago consultant firm's re­'sons of Alumni, and the addition
The groupofbuildingsconstitut-auditorium in addition to class­
commendations. The state hired of Monogram winners," in thefloors of the MemorialLibraryto 
ing the center will contain all rooms. 
start a medical library and the Booz, Allen, and Hamilton to hopes of getting an "idealcross­
training institutions and resid-Bro.thers on the junior college 
make a survey of Indiana's med­section of the senior Class."
present library facilities would ence halls for brothers beginning faculty and staff will live in ano­
icals school needs, The Chicago Thursday evening the projectalso be usable by the medical 
their college studies in prepara-ther building behind the northfirm's subsequent report sugg­
school, The Universitywouldal­members met with members of
tion for teaching careers, aswell dormitory. Also included in theested that a second medical
so provide instructionformostof the Alumni Board ofDirectorsfor 
as those preparing for auxiliary plans is a fieldhouse or gymnas­
the courses in the preclinical school would be needed in about an informal session in order to •
services, says Bro. Donatus. ium for indoor sports. 
ten years and prior ~o that time 
years of the curriculum with ex­meet the board members and have 
Designed to accomodate 100 stu-The plans for the project also 
penses paid for by the state. increased expenditure should be a relaxed exchange of ideas. The 
dents, it will bring into one cen-include a cemetery, to be lands­
devoted to expanding the school board members were on.campusThe medical school under the ter the now scatteredfacilities of caped with an outdoor Way-of­already at Indiana University.
plan could utilize the Colleges of for a three day alumni workshop 
the brother's Midwest Province, the-Cross and shrine, and anad.:. 
The consultant firms said a new 
Science and Engineering in its which was being run by the Pub­
replacing installations at Notre ditional classroom building to bemedical school would be needed 
work and also the facilities of the lic Relations and Foundationin
Dame, St. Edward'sUniversityof constructed lateronwhenneeded. 
some time around 1980 and listed connection with the regularJanu­Computing Center and the Univac Austin, Texas, and Watertown, · Brother Donatus said that he ex-possible . sites as South Bend,
1107 with charges being made at ary board meeting.
Wisconsin. pects Notre Dame to take over
Muncie, West Lafayette (Purdue) Sti_ll a new program, the firstnormal University ·rates. The 
The ·~entral feature of the cen-Dujarie Hall, the present bro-
and t~e Bloomington campus of was last year, the Senior ProjectContinuing Educaticn Center now. 
ter will be a large chapel seating thers' residence on campus,
Indiana University. , is aimedatdevelopingahardcoreunder construction would also be about 300 persons. Directly be-Architects for the project are of alumni, spread all over theavailable for. use by the medical 
Working for Notre Dame is the hind the chapel will be a dining Stickle and Associates of Cleve­
school, · country who will be intimatelv ac-
nearby location of several hospi-hall, withcentralizedkitchenfac-land.
Carmichael sawno real difficul­coritinued on page 3 , 


[ 
I r Page 2 THE VOICE, Notre. Dame University 'January 20, 1965 
i 
? You Really Kno~ _How To Hurt A Guy . . -. The examination schedule is appal-qu1zz1ng. It has been toward a lessen-_Th~ de•emphas1s .of finals 1s ?ot bad _ing. There are 50 many violations of ing .of the number of courses, intense m itself. But to de~empha_s1~e the the "cle-emphasized" one hour exam concentration on a few subjects, fol-th~ end ·of the cours~ 1s. Th1s 1s now that the new system is far harder than lowed by extensive testing of total being done-by putting a number of the old one4 One poor boy of our ac• comprehen_sion of the material. · The, tests at the end of t_he semester that qu_aintance has 15 tests in the next aim is to create reflective, deep• encompa~s the enu_re work of. the two weeks. Another has a philosophy thin~ing and responsible young men course! Anot~er ~bv~ous clash se~ms course in which the final is going to and women. The value, of a course to ~e rn t?c 1nst1tuuon of a rea~rng count 100% of the grade, culled from lies in the •understanding that the-stu• period wh ~ch .encourages refle_ction, the one hour's, worth of writing. dent has·of its material as a result of and the cnmp~ng of the exam time to This points to an obvious fact. Pro• the prepatory instruction by the pro• -one hour which allows .only the most fessors are going outside the sched· fessor · It is not found in the perio• supe_rficial factualization. One hour uled exam period for more or extended fo. die .regurgitation of daily accumulated examina'tions are expressly designed nal testing. Departmental cxamina-facts. only to test cumulative knowledge, as tions have been scheduled for two cH£E!l vP, SOn/. Ptlt/~L5 ARt:Nf-used in math, biology, engineering hours in direct violation of the one H ,,.,,,.. and related sciences. 
h ·1 · h · · I · TH'lr INIPollrA~T,, o~ ..q~yr tn.._. 
our· ru e; wtt out g1v1ng a c ass AO;--'----Knowledgeable understanding can holiday. Science and engineering ~ __..,.,,,..,..._ most effectively be found out at-the 
. courses are having two one-hour ~/'""'-end of the-course, Here· is where-the tests, one during class timej one dur• ;:-,r-. ~ : ~ course has been heading, and here ,is ing the scheduled exam time• · Both :, . , -.;;.. where the. professor naturally tests to of the tests count equally for the fi-· ( . ( . • : i= see. if the student understands. Ac• nal grade. The study day set aside· cordingly, the final examination has. for the preparation needed for the ab· and w.ill continue to have1 utmost im­breviated 3 day exam schedule has ._-?t..LJJ!;W--portance, The importance requires been a'ppropriated as the day for reg• not the bureaucratic shortening of the istration. b 
O (/, testing period,. ut perhaps even an
l

Clearly the whole situation '/WI"'"'''""" extension of it. i is ludicrous. I~ any case the flagrant violations 
The faculty was not consulted about , of the new exam rules has increased this plan and have expressed their ' _,,,,J#,"" the hardships on the students.· The, disgust in class, outside of class, \ faculty is deeply disconten.ted. Final and in a· meeting with the Student exams have import.int value,in test1ng Body President at a Student Faculty the comprehensiveness of the course,· Advisory Board session. Why this J ~--,......::....__, ,,iiRul-rc · De•emphasization, of exams has not system will not work and never will .....---~, and will not be achieved by adminis­
work is clear. · .,...,.,1.-"'"'11., trative,manipulation. Let's turn away The progre~s of education has been Vr , 0 _ -., " ..-.,.a-o,.__ A) from-the inconsistently· aimed mess · away from the day-by-day· drillin_g and , ' -= '-· ------that now exists. · 
,'(__ ,·,.., >~,, ~ d' 
Civil Rig/its Commission ~ .:: -~---e:,r& , .. -.., '-jf ~ [f 
J9µ:rid~d To_A:Y:~1V~! N])'s__ 'F'~ilu1-'~'-!~ :E:dUca!~~egr°--~­
By Buck McFadden comes all qualified Negro stu-future with regard to Negro en-complished several things this nancial bind. The Student Senate dents; · rollment. Based on replies to . semester and· have other "iron has allocated $109,00 for use by 
"As the foremost training 2) To keep the Unive·rsityfamily queries concerning similar pro-still in the fire.'' Through the the Commission; money other ground for future Catholic lead­fully informed of the various is-grams sent to a cross-section of appropriate committees the than this must come from either ers, Notre Dame has a special sues of the civil rights problem: ' colleges and universities in the Commission· -has aided in the co-sponsoring organizations _or responsibility and opportunity to 3) To facilitate the complete in-United States, the report is ex-Freeda~ Fast; has caused the private contributions. The short­provide an education for those tegration of the present Negro pected to recommend an in-inclusion ofallNegronewspapers age of funds especially hampers 
·.·. · qualified Negroes whowill alsobe population of Notre Dame into the creased number of Negro faculty · in the U.S.· on the University's the procuration of speakersfrom leaders in the Church. As of now, academic, social· and fraternal_ (N.D. currently has two), in-mailing list; has begun contact-outside the University commu­Notre Dame has failed in its re­life of the campus and\stu..; creased shola·rship aid, the ''a-.ingallNegrograduatesoftheUn;.. nity, sponsibility to educate these men dent body. doption" of a Negro college and iversity; has sponsored talks by A good Catholic university can in numbers commensurate with While holding to those three aggressive recruitment of.quali-Prof. James Silver and author afford to be a cocoon: a great un­their siie in the Catholic popu-princfples, the Commission pre-fled Negro students,. Louis Lomax: has begun prepa-· iversity of any type caIU1ot, Rash 
.-lation in the United States," This sently is concentrating on a pro-c.o:N.E. has support within rations for a Library of Negro attacks upon any administration­indictment of our University is gram of aggressive recruitment both the Administration and the History and Current Negro Life and especially ours-arefoolish, part of a proposal submitted by of qualified Negro students in _Faculty, notably that of Fr. Hes-to be located in the LaForttme It should not be too much, how­
A.J. Cooper, Jr., toJohnGearen, order to increase greatly the burgh and Prof.Alvan.Ryan, Head Student Center: andhasbegun're-ever, to expect a mature Admin­Student Body President, on May numl?er of Negroes enrolled in of the English Dept. However, cruiting campus secretaries to istration and Facultytotake ape'" 6, 1964. The subject of the pro:.. : the University. To this end the even with this support, the Com-help with the Commission's tu-sition of leadership in a very posal was the revival of theCivif Commission has created a com-mission faces the problem of toring program. real, very present situation: nor Rights · Commission of the Uni-'. m.ittee entitled Committee on overco.ming inerita and develoP-Aside from the problems of i-should it be too much to e?(pect versity of Notre Dame. Negro Enrollment (C.O.N.E.) co-ing an effective, formulated pro-nertia and pathfinding, the Com-a mature student body to follow 
The Civil Rights Commission-­chaired by Minch Lewis and Jim gram, without having any pre-mission is in somewhat of a fi-.the lead. actually a Sub-committee ofthe Kenney.·· This committee has two cedent to follow•. Senate Welfare Committee--had objectives: Other committes of the Com-been especially active. Follow­1) A short-range crash I pro-mission and their chairmen are: ing. last year's appearance on gram to i11crease·next year' sNe-Local Publicity--Leonard Wood; campus by Gov. George Wallace gro enrollment. Rev. Joseph National Publicity--Leillly Joyce; of Alaba!fl~, Jay Cooper.:.-him­· Hoffman, C.S.C., ActingDirector Speakers--Fred Gund: Student selfanAlabamian-determinedto of Scholarships, will be asked Exchange--Thomas Echewa: In­

OF NOTllE DAME 
tum the dormant Civil Rights to contact 600 Negro National formation--Don Davis:Tutoring­Commission into a· progressive Merit Finalists on behalf of the , John Dunn; Collegiate Informa­action group with an expanded · University; tion--Ronald Homer. Thomas Published_ weekly during the academic year by students of the Uni­scope of activities. . . _2) The preparation of a report Cullen is the Vice-Chairman of versity of Notre Dame, Office, Room 2A, LaFortune Student Center; 
1) To inform the ·nation that the ; suggesting a po11cy to be 1mp1e.;. the Commission, Post Office Box I. · · · 
University of Notre ·Dame wel-_mented _by the. University in the These . committees . have ·ac-Board of Review •••••• ; ••Rev, Daniel O'Neil, C.S.C., John Gearen EDITOR••.•• ~ •.•••••••••••••• ~ •• , • ,BARRYJOHANSON Associate Editor:••••••••••••••••••• ; •••• ',Grover Nix III News Editor:. • • • • • ••• , •••.•••••••••••• .-• John Buckley 
LETTERS -TO THE EDITOR 
Assistant News Editor:, • ·• , •• , •••• , •• , •• , • ,Bob Lumpkins News Staff: .•••••••••••.••• Earl Guertin, Ken Krivickns, Dan· the A.B. Departmental and Deans' contacted too late to permit them Murray, Jack Quine, Bob Scheuble, Al Schulte, John Sibley, Dick· .,Dear Editon Offices, the basement of the Li­sufficient time to answer the Veit, Stephen Feldhaus, Ray Foery, Buck McFadden. Rick Schleef, brary, . the FreshmanYearOffice, questionnaire adequately, The · Bill Siska, Tom , Anderson, Pat Strickler, a~d Jim Elliott · Your recent_ editorial about the and at least one copy was distri-· booklet was not limited by oppo­Sports Editor:. • ·• .-• • , ••• , •.• , , , • , , .George Kruszewski A,B. course description booklet buted to each of. the residence sition among the_ faculty, -but by ~ports Staff:., ..........Joe Ryan; Mike.Mooney, Mike Read, Dan 
.was very ell sturbing. First ofall, . halls. .. lack of funds. That is the area in . ·. ·Ferguson, Bob Campbell, Ed Hugetz, and Mike Granger the editorial was veryinaccurate The editorial seriously implies which an improvement can be Business 1Vfanager:•••••••••••· ••.•• ~ •• ', •_·•••••John ()'Hanlon ' in · . factual. ·content, The. small that the majority of the faculty made • Advertising Manager:. • ••· , •••• , ••••••••••• , •• Ken Socha 
. number of copies that could be. members who were asked tocon­Advertising Salesmen:•••• , •••••••• ,Cregg and Roger Barron printed were not "distributed to tribute · were ''tmcooperative" . Yours truly,_ C?PY Editors:, , , , , , • , •• • ; , , , , ~ , ••Bill M:ltz, Lou Bartoshesky · fortunate student's." They were and '.'apathetic." Thatwasnotthe Layout Editor:.~ •• ,•••••••.•.••..•-..........·.• ;, •• 0erin1S·Kem placed throughout the campus, case, Only a-very few men, per-· Tom Brejcha -Assistant Layout Editor:, • , ·: • , • • • • • • • • • • • ••• ,Neil Bowen 
_., where they would be most· ac­haps some two or three alto:..· A,B, Senator · Layout St!lff:• • • ; •.••.•.·••..••.•.Dave Griffin;Steve Vogel' cessible to as many students as · gether, were decidedly opposed to 
Proofreader:•• :•••• ~.,,•·•.·• .' •• ~ •.••··.•·.•., ••John.RadoseVich possible•. Most were ~tuated in the project. A few others ,vere • Circulatio~ 1VJanager:. ~.. • ; • , , .. • ••·, ••••• ,.•• ;·, -Ted Purvin 

. . ' . ' . ~-. . . .· 
I 
'f 







-·r___,...,~-•·· 
January 20, 196~ THE VOICE, Notre Dame University Page 3 

Cagers Bow To Billiliens 75-67 Then Humiliate Butler 94-57 
~------·· ., ,,bclp.·pace-the Notre Dame quintet.to.a 94-57.romp.__ Mr._She/field~ ___andwiJI havean admission price . · moved into ninth place-amongst Notre Dame•s all time· scorers; ;;. of $;75. · . · •· -· 
The big band of the Lettermen
..•.....•........•..•.......~. will feature modem jazznumbers 
Larry Sheffield, with a career plus current hits such as ''James total of 1039 points~ has movedin-Bond Theme,,. "Who's Afraid Of continued froµi. page I to 9th place among the all-time Virginia Woolf," and "A Taste 
Notre Dame scorersaheadofLe-. of Honey." A jazz quartet made 
roy Leslie, who played from 1949 up of members of the Lettermenquainted with the workings of the -1954 and had a total of ms. Walt -will also play.
Foundation, . 
Sahm with 928 points has moved Band leader Bernie Zahrenalso · 
Project director Gibbons ex­
into 12th place and Ron Reed with promises new. arrangements by
plains it this way•. 
836 points is 14th. the band and a jazz poetry reci­
"We are hopeful that with the 
,......~ ••• • • • • • •••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • tal.
background a member already 
1965 MARDI,GRAS 


BALL. LOTTERY 
, 

February 4th 
Ticket ·sales For All Mardi Gras 
Activities Monday Fehruar·y 8th· Plan N·ow To Show Her A Weekend She Will N.ever Forget. ,• . All Who Have Sold Ten Raffle Books ~y Feb. 3rd. .Will Receive A Free Bid To The Ball 
few times that an opposing team has been able to match the Irish in overall height, and this proved to be a definite factor in the out­come, 
On Saturday, however, in a game against Butler the Irish bounced back to posttheir most convinc­ing triumph of the season over a surprisingly weak Butler quintet, 94-57,

. 
The game wasn't the least bit close at any stage as the Irish quickly jumped to a 10-0 lead while Butler was missing itsfirst 13 shots at the basket, and they continued to increase thefr. lead throughout the rather dull first half which ended up 49-19. The second half wasn't much of anim­provement even though Butler seemed to find the: range a little better, and the Irish secondteam got one of their best workouts of the season as Coach Dee cleared 
·his bench. , Midway throught the season,Not­re Dame continues to get fine scoring balance from its top 4 scorers, and at this point only six points separate the No. land No. 4 scorers, Ron Reed leads all · scorers with 249 points, followed by Larry Sheffield with 247, Jay Miller with 246, and Walt Sahm with 243. 1 


ment of ND-South Bend relations South Dining Hall
Letter·men wm ·contact those that sign up, i 
At. 'SMC 
' 
The Notre Dame Lettermen will hold a jazz concert in SMC' s O' Laughlin Aud. Saturday, Feb. 6. 
The concert is being sponsored by the SMC student government, 

and inform them the place and t SODA FOUNTAIN t time of their invitation to dinner. t Mon, thru Fri. t Over ThanksgiVing, a similar I 7:30 A,M.-9:30 P,M, I 
program'. proVided meals for 60 
. \ 
DOUBTING THOMAS? 

HOPEFUL A.GNOSTIC? 
Christianity has-more to offer than hope, it has positive proof in the form of a MIRACLE which was foretold, described· and is intensely personal, Ask the Religious Leaders or send me a card marked ESP-17. My reply is free, non-Denominational, Christian, Martyn W. Hart, Box 53, Glen Ridge, N. I. 07028 (USA). 
The play was fast and furious at Howard Park Sunday afternoon Ht;te Notre Da':'e antf A~r Force slow the tempo at a face off. Th; lrzs_h fell 5-2 in thezr first home hockey engagement in 26 years. 

Students Offered Meals In S.B. 
Stmday, Jan. 31, homes in South students, although over 100 SouthBend will again offer meals to Bend families volunteered to take 

Notre Dame students who are someone into their home.; Com­staying on the campus during the mittee members attribute this to 
vacation. 
the fact that too few studentsRepresentatives ineach hall will knew about the program in time 

take the names of people who are to sign up for it. 
interested in going to one of the homes for the Sunday dinner. 
---------------....

The committee for the improve­PUBLIC CAFETERIA
i i 
•by Mike Read 
Notre Dame, with a record of 8 wins andSlosses, anda scoring average of 94.2ppg, hopes to im­prove this week on both its re­cord and its scoring average as it journeys to Purdue onTuesday night and returns hometofacethe University of Toledo on Saturday afternoon. 
This pastweek sawthe Irish suf­fer their first loss of the New Year at the hands of St, Louis U. on Monday night, 75-67. This game, according to Coach John Dee, marked the low point of the 1%4-65 campaign as· the Irish made error after error and mis­sed shot after shot in losingto the Billikens. · 
The game also marked one of the 
~ .
.. 

Leapi;g Lan-y Sheffield breaks through three Butler Bulldoss to 

has,.coupled withwhatwewillex­pose him to, that he willbeoneof our leaders in his particular area·· in the future." 
According to Tibbons, this does not mean. that members will · be expected to "be bigcontributors, or even able to doa great dealfor us" ·in the next few years when • graduate school, newcareersand the services are coming·up. 
But ·after that he hopes to have some· "big returns in activity and interest." "At least members will be informed of just what it is that the University is trying to do,". he says. 
. In February Project me~bers will learn the complete operation of the Foundation Office. Another 
, Foundation office Visit will deal with an explanation oftheAlumni Assc, and the responsibilities of the Public Relations and Public Informatibnclepartments. 
Other plans before the yearends include ·participation in the Stu­dent Foundation Week, a project used to raise funds for student scholarships and increase among students in contributingtotheWl­iversity. A communion breakfast is planned for April and a·meet­
. ing with parents at graduation•.. · After graduation follow-up on the project will include sending· copies of each issue ofTheVoice 
and · the Scholastic, the Notre. 

. Dame Dope Book and Football Re-. . ,•view, aU-news releases from the · . · Public Information Department 




THE 1965 ·MARDI· GRAS 
and · · copies of the President's Newsletter. 
Page 4 1HE VOICE, Notre Dame University Wednesday, January 20, 196~ 
Fencers Take 
The Irishfencing season start­ed off on a high note this past weekend with the defeat of three Cleveland area teams. 
On Friday, January 15, Notre Dame defeated Oberlin on their 
make 

like a lion, 
you beast 



lNear Dateil 
Post-Grad slacks by 



h.im 

® 
You'll prance and dance and 
look iean and lethal in these 
pants. They trim you up and 
taper you down. Post-Grads 
are the king of campus styles 
because they're absolutely au­
thentic. Neat belt loops. Nar­
row-but-not-too-narrow cuffs. 
Shaped on:seam pockets.You 
can look regal for a pittance 
since they cost but $6.98 
a pair in 55%Acrilan*Acrylic, 
45% Rayon. Buy 'em and 
roarrr! 
•Chemstrand Registered Trademarks .. : meaning that these slacks are uncond1· tionally guaranteed for one full year's nor­mal wear. 
Three Meets 
own floor by a score ofl7-10.The next day, the Irish pushed by Fenn 

· and Case byidentical19-8 scores, As predicted at the beginning of the season, foil led all weapon's with a 21-6 mark overthe week­end while sabre and epee both chalked up 17-10 records, 
The Oberlin meet was the most important of the three and things were even afterthefirst7or 8 bouts. The turning point was the dramatic comeback of Mike Mc­Quade as he came from a 1-4 de­ficit to a 5-4 victory fnfoil After this, the Irish slowly pulled away to finally take the match, 
The Fenn and Case meets were clear fairly early, and the closer score resultedfrom some substi­tutions on the part of the Irish. Notre Dame was led during the weekend in foil by Bill Ferrence (5-1), Joe McQuade (5-1), and John Bisko, (5-0), Mike Dwyer went (7­2), in shbre, while Tom Buhl went in epee, with (6-3), Frank Hajnik going (5-2), and Bill Ott (4-0), 
The game, billed as the first name· hockey match for the IIish in 26 years,_ started on a sour note when Tom Heiden picked up a two minute penalty in the initial 15 seconds of play. With the man advantage aiding them, the Fal­cons tallied to open the scoring, Notre Dame was charged with two simultaneous penalties after a mix-up in front of theirownnet at 12:22 in the first period. Goal­ie Leo Collins got one for rough­ing in the goal creas~ and Jack 
Courtney was sidelined for high sticking. AirForce again capital­ized on the Irish mistake and scored. 

Priests 
* 
Teachers 

* 
Missionaries 



NW Dumps Irish 56-39 Soph Swimmer Shines 
By Mike Granger 
Last Saturday, the Notre Dame Swimmers suffered their second straight defeat to a Big Ten Uni­versity, as Northwestern turned back the Irish, 56-39, 
Notre Dame had many bright spots, However, grabbing 5 ofthe 11 events andestablishingtwonew school records in the 200 yard breastroke and the 400 yard med­ley relay. 
Sophomore Bob Husson broke the breasstroke record with a time of 2:23,8, The previous re­cord was set four years ago by Joe Bracco with a time of 2:32, The medley relay broke a re­cord set back in 1%2, The quar­tet consistedofbackstroker, John Frey: Husson: butterflyer, Dick 




AAU Feuds With Collegians 
Due to the efforts of the late ed with track and field and will General Douglas MacArthur and hamper the activities of many John F. Kennedy a showdown bet­college athletes, The NCAA has ween the AAU and NCAA was a­
put a ban on all college athletesvoided for the Tokyo Olympics, . competing in indoor_ track after After the Olympics Games, the March 1, Under the ban, Notre 

temporary truce was disbanded and as a resulttheAmericancol­Dame runners will be unable to lege athlete is caught in the mid­compete in the Cleveland K. of C., dle, Chicago Relays, and Milwaukee 
Journal G_ames.
The feud isprincipallyconcern-

Air Force Ices Irish· 5-2 
Notre Dame lost a rough and, 

After the intermission and with tumble hockey game to the Air the ,vind at their backs, the Irish Force AcademylastSunday,com­
fired thirteen shots at Academying away with a 5-2 defeat, 
goalie Hal Grieshaber but were frustrated as he det_el"ID!-n~dly_ · fought to keep his shut-outintact, Leo Collins wasn't as fortunate, and two more Air Force shots slipped behind him. 
Down by four goals, the only en­
couraging sign was that the Fal­
cons as a whole seemed intent on 
avoiding a body-checking strug­
gle.Play slowed until the lastper­
iod when defenseman Frank Man­ning and Tom Heiden teamed up for a score. 

Tom Heiden notched his first mark of the season two minutes later after finding himself alone in front of ,the net and the oppos­ing goalie out of position on the ­


HOLY CROSS 
Strack; and freestyler, Paul 
Drunker. Their winning time was 
3:56, cutting nearly four seconds 
off the old record. 
The exceilent performances of 
young Bob Husson was definitely 
the bright spot in this meet, In 
addition to his individual victory, 
Bob was an important factor in 
the record breaking medley re­lay, Husson gained four seconds in his leg of the breastroke to provide the Irish with their med­ley win. 
The leading S\vimmer of the afternoon was Northwestern' s All-American freestyler-Rich Abraham, He won both his indi­vidual events, the 50 and100 yard freestyle races, and anchored 
N.W. 's winning freestyle relay, Abraham's respective times were 22,l and 49,3 ·Senior Ted Egan of Notre Dame finished be­hind Abraham in the 50 free with a time of 23,2. Egan retired last season but came back after Christmas vacation. 
Notre Dame jumped off to a quick 15-1-lead by ,vinning the medlay relay and placing 1-2 in the 200 yard freestyle race, Team cap­tain, Rory Culhane, edged team­mate Jack Stoltz in this event, Ro1y's winning time .was 1:57,5, his best performances in that e­vent this year. 
The lead quickly disappeared as Abraham won the 50 yard free-


Brothers 
* Office and '* Manual 

style and the Wildcats slammed the next two events, the 200 In­dividual Medley and the diving. Tim Kristl and John Woods fin­ished 1-3 in the 200 butterfly, knotting the score at 26 -26, -Kristl' s winning time was 2:15, 7, his best dme this season, 
Once again, though, the Wild­cat's showed their power and notched 1-2 finishes in the 100 yard freestyle and the 200 yard backstroke, This left the Irish'l4 points behind, 42-28, with three events remaining. 
In the 500 yard freestyle, Jack Stoltz' s first place kept Notre Dame's faint hope for an upset alive, Captain Culhane finished third in this event. Then Husson won the breastroke-race, but 
-Northwestern finished2-3, giving them a 10 point lead and assur­ing them of victory, Theywon the final event, the 400 yard free­style relay, makiing the final score 56-39. 
Notre Dame will open its home schedule Saturday as Western -Ontario visits Notre Dame, 
Cyr's Barber Shop 
MICHIANA'S LEADING BARBER SHOP 

Be a good dancer and gain confidence! 
Come to' Arthur Murray's and learn 

-the secret of smooth graceful dancing. You"ll be amazed and thrilled how quickly and easily you will be dam.:­ing with carefree confidence. In no time at all you will be the envy c( your friends. But act now! 
ARTHUR MURRAY 
120 E. Wayne · Phone CE 2-3339 
0­
,., 
co
.. 
N 
M 
N 
a 
z 
ao 
:z::
Fashion s w z·




Leaders-.o "' 
... ~ 
0

for ~ 
... 
:,
...

High School "' 
z· 
... 
c., 
z

and 0 
i: "'<( 
~


College men 
~ 
.:, 
~ 

* Preachers  * Parish Priests * Chaplains  * Teachers * Missionaries ­ * Workers  
* Writers  * Social Workers  
United States  France  Brazil  India  Uganda  
Canada  Italy  Chile  Pakistan  Ghana  
Haiti  Spain  Peru  Liberia  

visit or phone (284-6385 or 284-6497): Father William Melody, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall 

ON DISPLAY AT 
The Notre Dome 
Bookshop 


Foto News Litho -Ramarr Publishing, Elkhart, Indiana :! 
._
---:..____:_____________________________________________________________________ 



