Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 69 Issue 9 29 November 1935 
SEVEN SENIORS END CAREERS AS IRISH 
Southern Cal. Sidelights 


RESERVES CLOSE A SUCCESSFUL SEASON 
By Jim Waldron 
What can truly be described as the "fightingest" of the Fighting Irish teams of many years past, and prob­ably many to come, finished its season in a fitting brilliant climax Saturday. One couldn't desire a better wind-up of a highly successful season nor could any one \\nsh for a finer com­pletion of a football career than that of our senior players. Notre Dame men to the last. . . the Notre Dame men that those 50,000 people expected them to be .. . a great finish. 
Southern California looked to be the greatest finishing team we have faced all year. . . fighting to the last ditch. . . "pulling a Notre Dame as the saying now goes. They lacked a Warburton or a Mohler however, al­though Davis proved quite elusive at times, much to our chagrin. 
As you probably noticed, if you weren't looking at the female in the leopard-skin coat in the front box, the Trojan s discarded their famous 
•"squirrel cage" shift for a more con­ventional type of formation. . . which was one reason why they didn't seem to be the spectacular team of old. 
Too many of the boys were getting lost in it they say. 
This lad Langley was one of the best pimters we've come up against all year. By the time our safety man got hold of Langley's high, long boot he had little chance to run any place ^vith it. 
And his quick kicks had our quarter backs blushing Avith embarrassment as they chased them back. 
Of course Bill Shakespeare, after a rather erratic beginning, more than held his oAvn as one of the coimtry's greatest (if not the greatest) long distance pxmters. Shakespeare played a marvelous game of football all the way around, one of his best of the year, firmly establishing himself as one of the finest backs in the land. . . Wally Fromhart in his swan song played the greatest game of his life. 


By Mike 
Saturday's game of Nov. 16, at Champaign, Illinois, brought the "B" team's schedule to a close. The sea­son can be considered very successful considering the fact that the lineup was juggled considerably for each game. Seniors who couldn't make the grade as varsity performers, and sophomores who needed more experi­ence before advancing to varsity ranks composed the greater part of the "B" team performers. 
October 6, the "B" team adminis­tered a 25-12 defeat to Niagara Col­lege. The reserves were an outstand­ing attraction in Niagara because the largest crowd that ever attended a Niagara football game turned out to watch the Irish whip the home team. Trailing at the quarter 6-0, the re­serves turned on the pressure and were leading 12-6 at half time. Every starting man was a sophomore for the Notre Dame "B." McKenna, Horan, Saffa, and McCormick scored touch­downs for the Irish. Sweeney, Em­manuel, Chanowicz, Clifford, and Fos­ter were standouts in the forward wall. 
Ouachita College fell next before Bill Cerney's clever team. The Irish played good football, winning 25-0. McGi-ath, Schmidt, McCormick, and Gibbs crossed the goal line for Notre' Dame. Saffa passed brilliantly. In the Irish front line. Smith, Emman­uel, and Battaglia played good ball. Arboit and Hoan also looked good in the secondary. Notre Dame's "B" made eleven first downs to Ouachita's seven. 
The afternoon of November 2 found the reserves lined up against the Illinois "B." It was the first "B" 


 Crowe 
team home game in four years. Early in the game, Saffa made a lon^ run for a touchdown. Shortly after this, he passed to Gibbs who grabbed the pigskin and raced 60 yards for the second Notre Dame touchdown. Joe Carson was the shining light in an 80 yard Illinois march for a touchdown in the second quarter. Ed Crotty and Macaluso, Notre Dame linemen, were big factors in the triumph. 
Defeat came on November 9. Pur­due's "B" turned the trick. A. wet gridiron handicapped the outweighed Irish. Two Pui'due scores in the sec­ond quarter and a touchdown in the third period left the Irish trailing 19­0 at the beginning of the fourth quar­ter. Notre Dame's first score came when Dan Gibbs blocked a punt and recovered it for a touchdown. A few minutes later, Saffa sprinted 50 yards for a touchdown making the score 19-12. The reserves uncovered all their trick plays in the closing min­utes but none of them clicked for scores. For the Irish, Dean and Saffa were the outstanding backfield per­formers, while Gibbs was strong in the forward wall. The game demon­strated that Notre Dame never quits until the final gun. The spirit that whipped Ohio State almost gave the reserves victory over Purdue. 
The sophomores and juniors who played with the "B" squad received a grooming that will be of value to them when they aspire to the varsity next year. Since the players go com­paratively unrewarded, they must have a real liking for the game. 
Each year more importance has been attached to these games and the competition is fully as keen as that between the varsity teams. This can be further demonstrated when we stop to realize the number of reserves that step into varsity berths during the course of their stay at school. 


^^Hmil^iSiPl 
Notre Dame Reserve Football Squad 

Eighteen The Scholastic 




