S1.00 
a afl a 0 a'fl"fl a o a a aft'a'fl a a o o o o o'a a'ft-B'o'fi ya'B~a~a"a"a'a'a"a'fl~a"o'a~a"a'a"a'aa'a a a a a'a'a a'aa a^' 
S 
PAY US NEXT SUMMER 
o 
i 
o 
o This is the exclusive Campus Shop Way: 
o 
We think you'll agree that there's no other plan that equals 
o the Campus Shop Way to buy; all Notre Danie men can o o select their apparel 7ioiVj when their need is greatest, wear 
* 
and enjoy it jwiv . . . and the Campus Shop Way lets them .. . 
I i 

PAY ONE-THIRD PAY ONE-THIRD PAY ONE-THIRD 
t 
in June, in July in August 
i 
WITH NO SERVICE OR CARRYING CHARGES 
\ i 
UJLSLU.9.9Jt.9SiSUUtSIJLSJLUSJ Lg.fl-ffJ>-O-9.1L9-ftJ-g.9-9-9.0.g.g 0.0 P
^ILBERrS 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
raTa"a'a"a"aa"a'a'a"a"a'7n>"a~a"a~g'y7)'aTnn)"B'<nn ra'a'aa aaaaaaaao a a a'a'a'a'a"aa'a'a'a"a'a"a"a'i 
o o 
o 
Mind if we talk about Christmas ... and your wardrobe? 
The gi-eat vacation is near . . . 
I 
many will be traveling . . . most will be using every minute of this precious time for relaxing, parties, eats and the like. We'll come to the point; right now your Campus Shop has a full selection of suits, 
I 
sport coats, top coats and all acces­sories; you can get set now for the holiday good times . . . get ready. t get set then go. o o 
t 
; 
I 
E0.0.g.g g g g (ULg-0-g.g.g.P I Lg g.g-g.lLg-g.O g g g g.g.g.9.g.g,g.g.0.g 
GILBERT'S 

ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
First Choice R. K. MUELLER. INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED 
Of The Engageables Keepsake 
DIAMOND RINGS They like the smart styling and 
OMEGA - TISSOT - BULOVA the perfect center diamond ELGIN WATCHES AND RINGS .. . a brilliant gem of fine SPEIDEL AND KREISLER WATCH BANDS EXPERT WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING 
color and modern cut. The 

218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
name, Keepsake, in your 

C>ILL — 233-4200 — C>ILL 
ring assures lifetime satis­
faction. Select yours at your 
Keepsake Jeweler's store. THE OPEN HOUSE 
He's in the yellow pages 

IS now more than 
under "Jewelers. " 
'HALFWAY' OPEN 
REGISTERED 
3 CO-EX POOL TABLES 
DIAMOND RINGS 

AFTERNOON COFFEE SHOP 
(ice cream with all the trimmings) 
»vv3^vy.^t-^-vg.-V!y!y-.-v'.'V.-v-.--.--. 

PRIVATE DINING FACILITIES 
Ext. 6236 
PIZZA DELIVERY 
Sun.-Thurs. — Ext. 6236 
RESTAURANT 
Sun.-Thurs. — 5:30-12:00 Fri., Sat. — 5:30- 1:00 
Contact Lens Specialist 


Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIBS 
212 S. Michigan 234-4874 
raiccs ritoH tioe. TO SSOOO. KINCS CNLARCCD TO SHOW acAurr OF DETAIL. 
® TRAOE*MARK REC. A. H. rOND COMPANY. INC.. ESTABLISHED ItSt 



GRIDIRON LORE 
HOWTO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Please send new 20-page booklet, "How To Plan Your Engage­Collector desires acquiring 
ment and Wedding" and new 12-page full color folder, both for 
bock number football pro­
only 25c. Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book. Name grams, tickets and guides. State offer. 
Address. 
City JOHN SULUVAN State. .Zip. 3748 No. Damen KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13202 Chicago, Illinois 60618 
• se 

editor-in-chief 
MIKE MC ADAMS 

copy and layout editor 
BILL CULLEN 

staff 
MIKE GRANGER TONY INGRAFFEA RICH MORAN STEVE NOVAK MARK SEEBERG RAY SERAFIN BILL SWEENEY 

copy and layout 
JOHN DUDAS MIKE MCINERNEY PAULA ROTH TIM UNGER MEL WESLEY 

special contributors 
STEVE ANDERSON BOB BLEIER STEVE BODA JOHN KLIER PETE MC INERNEY TIM SCHLINDWEIN 

photography 
FRANK J. CLARKE 
MIKE FORD 
JIM DRUCKENBROD 
FRED QUIROS 

Dec. 8, 1967 


SCHOLASTIC FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Dec. 8, 1967 Vol. 109, No. 9 
TWO SEASONS IN ONE 6 
It began in disappointment and ended in triumph . . . editor Mike McAdams reviev/s the 1967 season. 

THE CAPTAIN LOOKS AT HIS TEAM 9 
Rocky Bleier recalls the ups and dov/ns from a captain's viewpoint. 

THE SEASON. GAME-BY-GAME 10 
California to Florida . . . pre-gome excitement and blow-by-blow accounts as reported around the country. 

THE OUTSTANDING PLAYERS 27 
The top backs and linemen of Notre Dame's season, in words and pictures. 

JOE AZZARO. SPECIALIST 35 
Tight-lipped on the outside, laughing on the inside. He's Joe Azzaro, Placekicker. 

ARA AND HIS STAFF 36 
The team behind the team—Ara, Roy, Pogno, Shoults, Wampfler, et al. 

LOOKING AHEAD 38 
Wally Moore produces the usual undefeated freshman crop: Joe Doyle of the South Bend Tribune reports. If the '68 schedule is an indication, they'll be needed. 

RECORDS 39 
Twenty-nine in all, plus ND's entrance into the exclusive 500 club. 

STATISTICS 42 
The hard, cold facts about the red-hot Fighting Irish. 




A SEASON SPLIT IN TWO 
When your "cinch" National Championship is taken away just one month into the season, the impulse is to back down and play out the year. Notre Dame, beaten and embarrassed in a disappointing start, refused to quit; they picked up the pieces of a broken dream and finished 1967 with the pride and tenacity that marks a champion. By IWIKE lAIcADAMS 
nroM PAGNA sat in his office at the Rockne Memorial, 
-*• scribbling on a pad and eating a turkey and tomato sandwich. It was Monday morning, October 16, and Notre Dame's offensive backfield coach was charting a football team's future between gulps of lunch. "They can get down on themselves now and never come back. They have the feeling that they've let the world down, and the way the papers talk, they have. Our job is to keep the players' heads up, to let them know the season hasn't ended — it won't be easy." 
The previous Saturday Pagna and 60,000 slightly more detached spectators had seen Notre Dame's "monolithic supermen" play very much the way ordinary earthlings would against USC, the nation's number-one team. The score was 24-7, and, quite frankly, the Trojans earned their victory. Now Ara Parseghian and his staff had to get a battered team into some sort of workable mental condition before games with Illinois and, more impor­tantly, Michigan State. If they failed, if Notre Dame allowed disappointment to grow into depression, the en­tire 1967 season would go down the drain in a series of lackluster, uncoordinated efforts. With the right psy­chology and key adjustments in two or three positions, maybe, just maybe, something could be made out of 1967. 8-2 and very good was the only goal in sight now; 10-0 and indecently good had gone the way of all preseason forecasts. 
So now it is 11:30 on Monday, and Pagna backs off for a moment to analyze where Notre Dame is and why. "We play with kids just like everyone else. Some are awfully talented, but they're not what every­one imagines. We lost ten of eleven starters from last year's offense team, we lost Eddy and Goeddeke and Conjar, and yet we can't lose, we're number one, we can open a can and out comes a fullback. So we go down to Purdue, with sophomores being told they're the Packers, and lose a game we might have won with a few games under our belts. O.K., the pressure's off, right? Two weeks later we play Southern Cal, they're ranked first, and whose the favorite? We are. We lose, and now we've lost two games we should have won. "V\Tiere do you go from here?" 
The first step was psychological. Practice the week after the Southern Cal game was shorter than usual. John Ray stiU made those angiy noises that sound like a garbage disposal unit, but underneath was a tone that said "we're with you, don't give up on yourselves." "Pride," a popular word anyway on Cartier Field, became everybody's last name. "Get your head in there, Bobo. Pride." By Wednesday Notre Dame had a team again, not a collection of wounded egos. 
Now, strategy. The game plans of the early season — they seemed to be Run, Pass, Pass, Pass, until there's a first down or a punting situation — had to be changed to include a running back or two. A defensive end, to pres­sure the opponent's passer and set up the defensive backs 
— Schoen, Smithberger, O'Leary — had to be discovered or developed. And the young defenders in the line and backing up the line had 1o be given practice and more practice. There would be no thirty-minute games for Olson or McCoy or Lauck. 
The world was finding out what Ara had tried to ex­plain countless times since the previous April. California, not a bad team but not a national contender either, comes to South Bend on a bright Saturday in September and is thrashed, 41-8, and do you think anyone outside of the immediate team is happy? Didn't they beat USC last year, 51-0? And what's wrong with the defense, anyway — a touchdown and a two-point conversion to boot? Ara says after the game that yes, he certainly was delighted with the game, and no, you should really wait a few weeks be­fore making the team number one. But coaches always talk that way, and when the wire-service polls come out on Tuesday, there is Notre Dame on the top of them. 
In eighth place that week is a team playing on the memory of a man named Griese. Purdue cordially wel­comes Notre Dame to its Homecoming in West Lafayette and then clobbers the Irish with every utensil in the house. 
liams are doing an awful lot themselves. Still, victory is as close as an inch above the hands of Seymour and Snow, and you just know that in 62 minutes of football we'll catch them for good. That week Purdue is number two. 
Iowa is fed to the lions on October 7, and if the 56-6 score doesn't mean that much, the performance of a re­serve fullback named Jeff Zimmerman does. He scores three times, and gains 64 yards in 11 carries. But Hanrai­ty still is favoring the air game, and in Southern Califoi'­nia a lay-back-and-wait defensive plan is formed. 
O. J. and the Big A. Adrian Young, arrive at South Bend, and they remember last December. They force Notre Dame to take the field first. They claim that nobody can beat Notre Dame on its home field with all that noise, and they turn your advantage into theirs. Early in the game a call for defensive clipping results in a forty-yard penalty, and the tempo of the game is set. The score is 7-0, Notre Dame, at the half, but something feels wrong. It's Irish Homecoming, and the tremendous magnetic spirit that will push the team over the top is missing. You as­sumed it would be there, that you could sit back for once and let others do the cheering. But too many students have been sitting back for too long, and on this Saturday 
Hardy limps off the field after a most unusual crackback block on the game's first play. Smithberger goes out next, and O'Leary follows. Keyes sweeps the end, Keyes goes through the middle; Keyes passes, Keyes catches passes. Keyes kicks off, just to round out the performance, and you'd say he does everything except that Phipps and Wil-USC outpsyches Notre Dame's Homecoming fans. They win it going away, Ara's worst defeat in four years. The team played solid football, but they were facing a very solid team with a very big grudge. Next year it will be different. But right now Notre Dame, everybody's Na­tional Everything, is 2-2 and unranked. 
Regrouping week is over now. Tom Pagna and John Ray and Ara Parseghian have put the pride back in the team, and some tentative adjustments have been made. "Forget the past," they tell the team, "we'U start over. The season starts with Illinois." 
Illinois is more like a halftime between two seasons. Hajiratty throws three interceptions, but they're the last that he'll throw in 1967. Bob Gladieux has his best day at halfback, and Jeff Zimmerman has come into his own at fullback. Bob Kuechenberg, a bruising offensive tackle for two years, is moved to end and looks like a natural. 
The defensive plays its best game of the season. 
Michigan State, national TV, the first big game of the second season. For thirty minutes it's a runaway, with Zimmerman doing most of the running. Hardy is back, too, all over the field. But the Spartans always make trouble, and this game is no exception. A tough 24-12 win, but a decisive one. Notre Dame has started the climb back. 

Navy. The cold and the snow. But the first half is dry and, yes, this is the Notre Dame we've been looking for all year. The offense takes the ball and marches: off tackle, around the end, fullback up the middle. Fifteen errorless plays in a row, all on the ground, bring the first touchdown. Joe Azzaro adds the extra point, his 96th for Notre Dame. He'U have one hundred before the day is through. Later, Hanratty opens up, completes 8 of 14 passes with no interceptions. The defense is vicious, and Navy makes the score respectable in the second half against reserves. 43-14, but you feel as if the final score was up to Ara. Pittsburgh is more of the same. The game is rather dull, as Pitt-ND games are wont to be, but Tom Schoen puts on a show with Panther punts and passes. The defense gets its first shutout, 38-0. 
The last week of the season, what could be a very good season, arrives. A week in a different world of sun and water buckets. Georgia Tech isn't supposed to have much, but Notre Dame is the team to beat once again, and what­ever Tech has they use with abandon. Captain Rocky Bleier scores twice, severing a hgament in his leg late in the first half. He plays the entire second half anyway. The defense allows a field goal and Notre Dame becomes 7-2 by a score of 36-3. 
Miami, too, has had a second season. They've won six in a row, the Irish five. They've had an open date and have practiced in their home town for two weeks. "Notre Dame is our bowl game." The Irish have had two days of practice in freezing rain. They arrive in Florida with new lightweight jerseys, with oxygen tanks, with respect. They'll need every bit of it. Miami shows plenty of punch, leads at the half, but can't make the kill. Smithberger twice saves Notre Dcime on defense, and now Zimmerman and Gladieux are getting clear. Hardy crunches Hendricks to save a touchdown, and Miami withers. A close game, the best for Notre Dame in a long, long time. An imper­fect season, maybe, but a perfect ending. 
Success is relative. When victory is so assured that it is not worth cheering for, then the victory is hollow. When a football team is expected to win time after time, it cannot rezQly win because it has nothing to accom­plish. The losses to Purdue and USC were unfortunate for the coaches and players of Notre Dame, who have proved that they are still hungry. But they taught a lesson to many fans and writers, and they made the Notre Dame team great by forcing it to get up off the floor and fight back. No one in the coimtry fought back harder than Notre Dame in 1967; by November, quite possibly, no one was any better. 
" A NYONE WHO HAD ANYTHING tO 
-^^ do with sports had a comment on Notre Dame this year. We were promised everything — from the Na­tional Championship to a drop right out of the Top Ten. But one thing hadn't changed: ten teams and thou­sands of fans looked on us as tlie team to beat. 
"Many people seemed to think that all we had only to walk out on the field and our opponents would roll over. But that's just not the way Iha game is played. It doesn't necessarily follow the preseason picks, or even the number of AU-Americans that are on the team — football is won by blocking and tackling and having the right mental attitude. 
"This is the kind of team I believe we had in 1967 — not a group of AU-Americans, but a team dedicated to the game. It was a team that worked hard for what it achieved and de­served every bit of the recognition it got. It was a team that came out to play ball, and when we lost this year it was because we ran into teams that also came to play ball. The image of 
O. J. Simpson pushing away tacklers after the whistle because "man, we've only got sixty minutes to play" is a vivid and perhaps painful one — but it is also one that characterized sev­eral members of our team. When we were on the field, we wanted to be doing something. 
"The '67 team had a nucleus con­sisting of a strong defense and a spotty offense. Both teams needed new lines, and the offense needed some running backs to help balance it off. But, with a great quarterback and the men to catch that ball, we had the essentials and in time we began to mold into a functioning machine. We started as the offspring of a great '66 team with nothing to call our own, but with quite a reputation to carry. If we were to follow the format put before us, we would have been a characterless group of individuals carrying out the predetermined. We did not, of course, go that route — after four ball games our record stood at 2-2. At that time the end of the season looked light-years away. The National Championship was out of our grasp, and we weren't even ranked in the Top Ten. 
"But we knew we had a good team, if not a potentially great team. The one thing that we hadn't taken into consideration was the idea of beating ourselves. And that's exactly what happened. We gave Purdue the game in the last minute although we had beaten them in every statistic but the score. Then there was the Southern Cal game — you just can't turn the ball over four times inside an op­ponent's ten-yard line and expect chances to score later on. 
"At this point we had six games to go, with the last three on the road 
— and here is where I'll have to say we became a team. It could have been easy to give up and become a 2-8 ball club or a 6-4 ball club, but it took guts, determination, and a self-realiza­tion to become 8-2. We had nothing to shoot for except to get back into that Top Ten and maintain that Notre Dame spirit. The season, I felt, reached its climax at Miami, the game which probably best typified the entire season. It showed the unity, the character, the Notre Dame tradi­tion and spirit, and the self-pride that this team had throughout the entire season. We started the game slowly and soon fell behind, just as we had done on the level of the season. In the first half our running game wasn't moving and we weren't working as a unit, but the second half was a new ball game. We made some changes. The team drew together, the running attack opened up, and we struggled to come from behind and win. You know, this team set or tied 29 school records this year, which I believe demon­strates the power of the squad. But there was a thirtieth record, of sorts, that won't go into the books — it was the first time in four years that we came from behind against an excep­tionally good ban club to take and protect a lead. That game, like the season, was a great tribute to the entire '67 ball club." 
The Captain Looks at the Season 
by Rocky Bleier with Steve Anderson 


THE SEASON .. . 
Game 7: ND 41. CAL 8 
IN DEFENSE 
OF r 


NUMBER ONE 

Chicago Tribune, Sept. 22 — 
A NEW CHAPTER in the Era of Ara opens tomorrow ^^ when Notre Dame's Fighting Parseghians open de­fense of their disputed 1966 national championship. 
The opponent is California, and the Gipper will turn over in his grave if the Irish do anything other than stam­pede a Golden Bear team which is rated fifth in the Pacific Eight conference. 
The city of South Bend, indeed the entire state of Indiana, is excited over the apparent mismatch. Signs in barber shops, restaurants, and pool emporiums hereabouts remind that the 1966 Irish, regardless of what Duffy Daugherty or Bear Bryant proclaim, were No. 1. Ticket prices for Notre Dame's five home games have been upped to $6.50. All are sellouts. 
Eleven of the Notre Dame starters in last year's his­toric 10 to 10 tie with Michigan State have been graduated. Nine of the 11 were the first three rounds of the combined professional draft last winter, reflecting the class of the 1966 Irish. 
Such illustrious names as Jim Lynch, Alan Page, Pete Duranko, Nick Eddy, Tom Regner, and Larry Conjar will be missing when the Irish sprint onto the field tomorrow to begin pursuit of their 13th national championship. 
New York Times, Sept. 23 — npERRBNCE HUGH HANRATTY and Kevin Thomas Hardy, 
-'• names to warm the cockles of even pseudo Irishmen, provided the dominant theatrics today as Notre Dame opened its football season with a 41-8 victory over the University of California. 
Not quite justifying its role as a 35-point favorite, the nation's No. 1 team in the pre-season rankings some­how did not appear to be as powerful as last year's squad that trounced nine opponents and struggled to the famous 10-10 tie with Michigan State. 
Hanratty and his pet pass receiver, Jim Seymour, each made careless errors that might have proved costly against a team with more firepower than California. 
Hanratty, squirming loose on a scrambling run around the right side, simply dropped the ball as he held it in his left hand. The fumble was recovered by California. Sey­mour, alone in the end zone, mishandled an easy pass from Hanratty, erasing another touchdown. 
Against California, however, such mistakes were easily rectified as Notre Dame extended its unbeaten streak to 12 games, to the delight of the 59,075 customers, many of whom were chanting "We're No. 1." Hanratty, completing 15 of 30 passes for 208 yards, also ran for some important yardage. Usually scrambling, but sometimes employing a quarterback draw play, he rushed seven times for a net total of 53 yards. 
The real runners did well, too. Ron Dushney, the new fullback, contributed 40 yards. 
Seymour, the lean split end, and Bob (Rocky) Bleier caught Hanratty's touchdown passes. Dan Harshman and Bob Gladieux were Notre Dame's other touchdown-makers. 
Seymour, who had six receptions for 69 yards, occa­sionally was employed on the same side of the field as another wide receiver, Paul Snow. The formation appeared to befuddle California's pass defense, but Ara Parsephian, the head coach, did not overdo it. Perhaps he intends to save it for more crucial opponents. 
Although California's total offense was 209 yards, compared with 423 for Notre Dame, the Golden Bears were unable to pierce the pass defense devised by Par­seghian's aide, John Ray. Barry Bronk, California's quar­terback, completed only two of 20 passes, as Dave Martin, an ever-present linebacker, intercepted twice. 
During the first half, Hanratty's first and last passes were intercepted. But in between, the junior quarterback, who put on about 15 pounds in filling out to nearly 210. directed Notre Dame to three touchdowns, as well as to Joe Azzaro's 23-yard field goal necessitated by Seymour's bobble of the end-zone pass. 
In the second half, Hanratty completed a 58-yard drive with a nine-yard touchdown pass to Seymour. Azzaro's second field goal, this one from the nine-yard line, made it 34-0 before Coley O'Brien, the second-team quarterback, hit Bob Gladieux with a 14-yard scoring pass early in the fourth quarter. 
When Troy Cox's one-yard dive against the second-string defense spoiled Notre Dame's shutout in the final quarter, it deflated those who had backed the 35-point favorites. But for virtually all the spectators, it was the only gloomy moment despite cloudy skies that chilled the capacity crowd in Notre Dame Stadium. • 

Dec. 8, 1967 
Game 2: ND 21. PURDUE 28 
R
Purdue Exponent, Sept. 30 OSS-ADE Stadium turns into a battlefield this afternoon as National Champion Notre Dame and Rose Bowl Champion Purdue meet in the thirty-ninth renewal of their hard-fought series. A crowd of better than 62,000 is expected to watch Terry Hanratty and Mike Phipps fill the air with footballs in one of the greatest passing duels in Irish-Boilermaker gridiron wars. . . . Concerning repeating as national champions and knocking off tough foes such as Purdue, Captain Rocky Bleiei' said. "When challenge is turned inside out it becomes opportunity. And we'll be mentally and physically prepai'Gd to accept both." 
Indianapolis Star, Oct. 1 npERRY HAA'RATTY, Notre Dame's rubber-arm quarter­
•*- back, broke every Irish passing record record in the book here yesterday. But Purdue's bristling Boilermakers went him one better—tliey broke his heart with a rousing 28-21 victory before an all-time high crowd of 62.316 in Ross-Ade Stadium. 
The brilliant junior cocked his arm and let fly 63 times for one touchdown, 336 yards and 33 completions. 
Only 29 of them were caught by teammates, however, which proved his undoing as well as that of Ara Par­seghian. who hasn't produced a winning combination in two trips to Tippecanoe County. 
Purdue's pass defense may have looked like an all-court sieve most of the afternoon, but those four inter­ceptions wound up helping the Boilermakers to a well-earned triumph over what had been the nation's No. 1 gridiron juggernaut. 
With Purdue leading after driving 67 yards with the opening kickoff. sophomore Don Webster stalled a blistei'­ing Irish comeback by pilfering a Hanratty aerial and returning four yards to his 19. 
Notre Dame finally barged on top. 7-6. and yearned to increase its lead. But sophomore Tim Foley turned burglar for an instant five minutes into the second period and the Irish never had better than ties—electrifying though they were—at 14-14 and 21-21. 
Notre Dame was a two-touchdown favorite at the kickolT. But it was the Irish who had to play catch-up football after Purdue's staunch defensive unit kept the Boilermakers within a point at 7-6 for the first 30 minutes. 
Driving 75 yards in eight plays with Hanratty barging across from the 1 and Joe Azzaro booting the tie-breaking point, Notre Dame took almo.st complete charge of every­thing but the scoreboard. 
The Irish went in front with 2:48 left in the first quarter and they had the ball for 32 plays to Purdue's 11 in the second stanza, but the Boilermakers wouldn't budge when it counted. 
Foley threw up a road block with his interception at the Gold and Black 39. And magnificent line play headed by ends Bob Holmes and Joe Walsh along with tackle Lance Olssen whipped the Irish on Purdue's 4 after they had gained a first-down only five yards farther to the south. 
Caught up in the spirit of things as the third quarter opened, the Purdue attackers staged a three-touchdown assault sparked by sophomore Mike Phipps' passing and the running and catching of Keyes. 
But others became Boilermaker heroes as Coach Jack Mollenkopf beat Notre Dame for the eighth time in 12 tries. 
Bob Hurst, running behind Bob Baltzell at halfback, 



ENGINEERING AN UPSET 
gathered in a 34-yard lob from Phipps which set up a go-ahead touchdown four minutes into the third quarter. 
Phipps, a confident sophomore who completed 13 of 35 aerials, drew to an inside straight on fourth-and-6 at the Irish 37—and he hit it. 
Almost slipping down while getting set to throw, Phipps spotted Hurst who ran 34 yards. Fullback Perry Williams exploded for the last three on first down. 
The count became 14-7, Purdue, as Phipps threw to end Jim Beirne, who beat Notre Dame's Jim Smithberger for the two extra points. 
From then on, it was a case of attack and counter­attack. 
Notre Dame tied it at 14-14, marching 94 yards with Bob Bleier crashing over from the 1 with less than five minutes to go in the third quarter. 
The period ended that way, but Purdue already was on the move when time expired. Phipps ran seven yards to Notre Dame's 16 as the final canto got under way and Keyes raced to the 11 with a pitchout. 
Keyes then threaded his way into the end zone and Phipps laid the pass right in his arms. Baltzell kicked Purdue on top, 21-14, with 14:21 on the clock. 
Few people thought the lead would stand, however, and it didn't with Hanratty hitting end Jim Seymour for 17 yards, Bleier for 22, and Paul Snow for 27 and the 
i-^ :. . ^ ~. 
touchdown. Less than three minutes had been erased when Azzaro's third successful placement left the com­batants right where they started—21-21. 

Notre Dame kicked off, as required, and Purdue stormed right back to the final, game-winning touchdown, going 64 yards in six plays after sophomore Jim Kirk­patrick returned the boot 28 yards to Purdue's 36. 
Phipps got 9 on a sprint up the middle. Williams got 23—8 running and 15 more when a Notre Dame player grabbed his face mask. 
That put Purdue on the Irish 31 and the last shot was fired from there on third down. The irrepressible Phipps unloaded a pass to Baltzell, who caught it on the 15, cut back and was home free. 
His resultant placement ran the score to a final 28-21 but Purdue partisans kept holding their breath for good reason until Keyes stole Hanratty's last aerial with 1:39 remaining. . . . Keyes brought the battle to a climax cind Notre Dame's unbeaten string to an end after 11 autumn Saturdays of joy. 

Indianapolis Star, Oct. 2 
Fellows Hke Leroy Keyes spend their afternuns picking 
up bruises for old Purdue on a football field.- The pay 
isn't too good. But what the heck, we ail will take recog­
nition over money e.xcept when the bills come due—and 
the 6-3, 200-pound junior halfback is well on his v.ay to­
ward becoming one of the fine.<;t football players in Purdue 
history. 

Purdue nailed Notre .Dame, 28-21. here yesterday hi 
what had to be the most concerted air effort since the 
bombing of Coventry. It might have been the first football 
game ever in which the ball became aii- sick. 
The Irish were supposed to be the greatest thing since 
the invention of bubble gum. But their aerial ciirus heie 
turned out more like a routine from the old vaudeville-
team of Buck and Bubbles. 
And Notre Dame's Terry Hanratty left Lafayette minus a little more than his reputation for football in­faHibility. It was his right arm. They shipped it tr. Smithsonian. Hanratty put the bcdl in the air 63 times in an effort to salvage the contest for the nation's No. 1 rated team. Purdue threw 35 passes (34 by Mike Phipps. one by Keyesj. And even with my feeble, arithmetic the combined total comes out to a couple of dozen ton many. . . . 
Jim Seymour is used to seeing at least two men covering him. But yesterday he would have settled for any si.x—as long as one wasn't named Lei'oy. Jim caughi eight passes for 114 yards—but he only got his hands I'm one when Leroy was playing him head-to-head. 
In addition to guarding the bridge at Eagle Pass. Leroy caught nine passes for 108 yards and one touch­down and ran eight times for 27 yards. 
Granted, that doesn't seem like many yards. But the Purdues play Leroy at flankerback. Thus, every time they move in behind the center it almost is like grabbing a microphone and saying, "Ladies and Gentlemen. No. 23 is Leroy Keyes. On the next play he is going to carry the ball.". . .'' 
With the score 14-14 in the third quarter, Purdue had the ball, fourth and three on the Notre Dame 16. The Boilermakers went into a tight formation with Leroy dotting the "I." At this moment 62.316 spectators were in on a very poorly kept secret. 
Leroy was going to run with the football. 
So behind some dedicated blocking by Williams, he fought his way to a first down on the 11. On the next play Leroy loped into the end zone and hauled in a pass from sophomore quarterback Phipps. 
No football team can be as good as the reputation Notre Dame carried into Ross-Ade Stadium yesterday. And if the Irish are supermen, they surely left their suits in a phone booth somewhere. Any college football team that throws 63 passes certainly is operating on the ragged edge of panic. 
It seldom happens that way, but it does seem reason­able that the team that whips No. 1 should be moved into the top spot. 
Purdue won high ratings in other years after defeating Notre Dame, then took an ungainly dive the next time it got on the field. 
Don't bet that it will happen this time. The season is only two games along. But there is more than a little reason to believe that this is a Purdue team, worthy of a national championship. 
Game 3: ND 56, IOWA 6 

T
Iowa Hawkeye, Oct. 7 — AKE AWAY THREE of Notre Dame's starting defensive men, place another trio on the "questionable" list, and what do you have? 
"A very rough, physical ballclub," according to Iowa Coach Ray Nagel who believes that the Irish have one of the nation's strongest teams and that the series of in­juries the Irish incurred in the Purdue game shouldn't hamper their effectiveness. 
The Irish defense has an added incentive this week after trying vainly to nail Purdue's Mike Phipps last week. In a recent interview, ND Coach Ara Parseghian expressed displeasure at the defense's inability to handle either Phipps or his top receiver Leroy Keyes. 
Another downfall of the Irish last week, according to Parseghian, was the inability to make the big third down play. It is therefore conceivable that Terry Hanratty, who shattered several records with his passing against Purdue, wiU take to the air frequently on third down against the Hawks. 
Iowa Assistant Coach Frank Gilliam, who scouted Notre Dame's first two games, said the Irish are a "cinch to pass on third downs, and on first downs too." 
Parseghian is hopeful that his team will be able to display a better-balanced attack. Whether they do is dependent upon Bob Bleier and Ron Dushney. But Dush­ney is a "questionable" starter. Should he sit out today's game, reserve fullback Jeff Zimmerman, who has carried only four times this year for little yardage, would get the call. 
Des Moines Register, Oct. 8 — TOWA WAS STUFFED into a football meat grinder here 
* Saturday and torn to shreds by Notre Dame in a con­vincing and humiliating 56-6 rout. 
About the only way Coach Ara Parseghian's potent squad can impress the pollsters from now on, in quest of a second straight national championship, is to roll up the points and win all of its remaining games. 
With this purpose in mind, the Irish buried Iowa under a touchdown avalanche that was swift, skillful, and quite complete. 

What it amounted to, actually, was some early target practice for star passer Terry Hanratty, a few wind sprints by the other backs and then a second-half scrimmage for the reserves. 
Hanratty was so efficient that he even completed one pass to himself while hitting nine of 10 throws (the one he missed was dropped). He directed the Irish into their quick 35-0 lead and then sat out the second half. 
A sellout crowd of 59,075 turned out to view the one­sided mayhem, anticipating a run-away that developed right at the start and continued without letup until mid­way into the second quarter. 
Iowa received the opening kickoff, and the Hawkeyes quickly dug themselves a deep hole. 
They couldn't move and Ed Podolak went back to punt at his 20-yard line, only to bobble a low pass from center. He was downed at the 21 and Notre Dame got set for the kill. 
Iowa wasn't ready to buckle, however. ND moved to the one-yard line in five plays, but fullback Ron Dushney was stopped inches shy of the goal on fourth down. 
Tom Schoen fielded the ensuing punt on Iowa's 42 and ran it back to the 20. A 12-yard pass from Hanratty to Harshman put the ball inside the 10, and Hanratty scored from the two on a fourth-down rollout around right end. 
That first touchdown came after 7 minutes 3 seconds. Four more followed in short order — a total of five in slightly less than 13 minutes. 
Notre Dame marched through the Hawkeyes as if they weren't there to make it 14-0, traveling 61 yards in just seven plays, with Jeff Zimmerman scoring from the two. On the first play of the second quarter, Hanratty rifled a 22-yard scoring pass to Bob Bleier. 
The 21-0 count stayed on the scoreboard for one min­ute. Podolak aimed a pass in the direction of his split end, but Schoen streaked out of nowhere to pick it off and ramble unmolested 34 yards into the end zone. 
Podolak's next punt from deep in his own territory 

"A VERY ROUGH PHYSICAL BALL CLUB*' 
traveled only 25 yards, to the Iowa 36. Five running plays later, the Irish v/ere over the goal again, Zimmerman bouncing off tacklers and hammering his way the final 14 yards. 
All week, the sentiment in South Bend had been that the Irish were ready to unload the works on Iowa in an attempt to run up a score, but this was getting slightly ridiculous. 
The Hawks still hadn't been across midfield, and Notre Dame was leading 35-0, with 9:13 until half time. 
But the Irish began to ease up, and there was no fur­ther scoring until the third quarter. By then, Hanratty, Seymour and most of the other Notre Dame first-stringers were done for the day. 
Coley O'Brien, who must be the best No. 2 quarterback in America, and later on a sophomore named Bob Belden took over to complete the eight-touchdown stampede. 


The Day OJ. Came From L.A. 
South Bend Tribune, Oct. 11 — 'T'HE FELLOW WHO SAID he believed in "getting there 
-'• fustest with the mostest" has nothing on John McKay, the glib Southern California coach, who brings his No. 1 Trojans to Notre Dame Saturday. Or maybe John is one of those "Fire and fall back" strategists. 
McKay let the rest of the nation know the other day that the noise level in Notre Dame stadium is intolerable for a quarterback who calls audibles or makes any adjust­ment in his signal at the scrimmage line. The complaint isn't a new one for teams coming into South Bend and in fairness to McKay, his remarks were made only in reply to a question asked by a rival coach, Tommy Prothro of UCLA. 
UCLA played twice in Notre Dame stadium, but not with Prothro as the coach. The Bruits were then directed by Bill Barnes. But Prothro had been subjected to a high noise level at Penn State last week and he thought the question pertinent for McKay. 
ARA PARSEGHIAN OF NOTRE DAME seems to put the noise question into focus. When it came up another time — perhaps in 1965 when the Trojans also visited South Bend 
— Ara explained that "when I was at Northwestern, I thought the noise at Notre Dame was unbearable, but now that I am here, I don't notice it at all." 
When McKay's remarks were printed yesterday, Par­seghian cited the noice level at other places. At Purdue a couple of weeks ago, the Irish couldn't hear themselves think and at least once, referee Howard Wirtz honored Terry Hanrattey's request for a crowd-quieting timeout. And Purdue's outspoken squad leader, Frank Burke, quite obviously signaled to the crowd for quiet. 
In many cases, the volume of noise bothers the defen­sive unit, too, because they want to hear the signal-changes and react accordingly. Defensive teams change alignments even more quickly than the offense. 
At the Football Writers' chapter meeting in Chicago 

Dec. 8, 1967 
yesterday, Alex Agase of Northwestern had a solution (perish the thought!) for McKay: "Just get a couple of touchdowns out ahead of the home team and the stadium gets pretty quiet." 
THE COLD MIDWEEK WEATHER might not last until the weekend, but Notre Dame players wouldn't at aU mind a chilly welcome for the No. 1-ranked Trojans. In pre­vious visits to Notre Dame, the Southern California team hasn't played as well when the weather was cold, damp, or both. 
It's a little too much to hope for frozen turf or snow, but a day in the 40's might keep O. J. Simpson & Co. worrjdng more about goose-pimples than Irish tacklers. 
If the Irish defense has as much trouble chasing Simp­son, Steve Sogge, Jim Lawrence and the other speedsters as it did against Leroy Keyes, Mike Phipps, Jim Beime, Ed Podolak, and Randy Humphries (California), the noise level will reach the mortuary level pretty quickly. 
Gene Paszkiet, the sometimes-cynical Irish trainer, wondered what aU the fuss was about the noise in the stadium. "What do you fellows expect?" he asked. "This is show business, isn't it?" 
STRANGEST BIT OF EVIDENCE about the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game doesn't come from the participants, but from the betting fraternity. For some reason un­explainable from football people — the oddsmakers have made the Irish a 12-point favorite. The point spread varies in some sections of the country. 
One of the "power rating" sheets does pick Southern California by three or four points and another favors the Irish by one.: The Litkenhous picks, cited here last week, favors the Trojans. 
McKay, usually the humorist, listened to some speaker extolling the virtues of Trojan speed and cracked, "Yeah, and if it's a track meet Saturday, we're apt to win it!" 
Game 4: ND 7. SOUTHERN CAL 24 
South Bend Tribune, Oct. 15 — 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, looking very much like a team 
that deserves the national championship, dashed Notre 
Dame's top 10 hopes and a long-standing stadium jinx 
Saturday afternoon with a 24-7 footbaU victory. 
Swift and sure-footed O. J. Simpson, one of the greatest 
backs ever to appear in the Notre Dame stadium, and 
defensive demon Adrian Young, a line-backer bom in dear 
old Erin, paced the terrific Trojans to one of their greatest 
gridiron victories. 
Simpson was simply too much for the Irish defense in 
the second half, although time and again he was stopped 
for little or no gain. But he carried the football 38 times, 
the most ever for a Notre Dame opponent, and gained 
150 yards. He has averaged exactly that in five victories 
this season. 
Young grabbed off four of seven pass interceptions by 
the Southern California team, whose coach John McKay 
said that they had changed their basic concepts of pass 
defense to stop the threat of Terry Hanratty and Coley 
O'Brien of the Irish. 

Hanratty had his worst day as a passer. He completed 10 out of 23 before yielding to O'Brien in the third period. Five of Terry's passes were intercepted, but O'Brien was .little better. He connected on only four of 16 and two 
were picked off by the hustling Trojans. 
Not since Howard Jones was the coach in 1939 had the Trojans won a game in South Bend. But their victory Saturday was the 12th in a 39-year series that started in Los Angeles in 1926. Since the Jones victory—^his third—^in 1939, coaches Sam Barry, Jeff Cravath, Jess Hill, Don Clark and McKay had visited Notre Dame a total of 10 times without winning. Now the jinx has ended. 
The Trojan victory was strictly a second-half per­formance against a Notre Dame defense that was at its best of the year. Simpson was checked on 41 rushing yards in the first half and quarterback Steve Sogge completed only five of his 15 passes for a net gain of 57 yards. He had entered the game with a record of 63 percent completions and with no interceptions. 

The Irish secondary picked off three of his first-half passes and caused McKay to quit his passing game after the intermission. And it was a fruitful decision for a team that was trailing, 7-0. 
The second-half kickoff was fumbled away to the Trojans by Irish reserve fullback Chuck Landolfi. And from this key recovery by Steve Swanson at the N.D. 18, the Trojans whizzed across the goal line in seven plays, Simpson carrying on six of them including a final one-yard dive into the end zone. Specialist Rikki Aldridge tied the score at 7-7 with only three minutes played in the third period. 
The touchdown signaled the end for the Irish. Poor Notre Dame punting kept giving the Trojans the best possible field position and when Bill Jaroncyk intercepted Hanratty's pass and returned it 18 yards to the N.D. 42, Simpson was ready to roll again. 
Sogge misfired on a long pass that Tom O'Leary knocked away from speedster Earl McCuUouch, gave the ball to Simpson for six, and then pitched wide—and rather poorly—^to Simpson who cut outside the Irish defense and legged it to the end zone 36 yards away, outspeeding Tom Schoen in the final burst. 
The worst N.D. punt of the day—13 yards—set up an Aldridge field goal late in the third period, and still another interception gave the Trojans 14 short yards to go on the first play of the fourth period. 
On Battle's interception return, Hanratty was knocked to the ground and suffered a mild concussion. O'Brien, who had appeared for a few plays in the third period, took over, but he too was injured a few plays later. 
Bob Belden took charge and whipped a pass com­pletion to Jim Winegardner for a key first down. But again Mr. Young took over and hauled in O'Brien's pass at the 5. O'Brien had returned to action after only one play on the bench. 
In the waning moments, O'Brien started to connect with Seymour but this time Pat Cashman made it inter­ception No. 7, and on Southern Cal's last play, O'Leary was also injured. 
Before the game, Notre Dame had been a betting favorite, but the Trojans had been ranked No. 1. They virill undoubtedly retain that laurel, but the Irish will be doomed to fall out of the top 10. 
Last season, O'Brien led the Irish to a 51-0 walloping of Southern California in Los Angeles, but this time, the Trojans were the talk of the town. 
The 24-7 loss was the worst for a Parseghian-coached 
N.D. team and the seven interceptions likewise set a record. 
In defeat, Seymour moved up to within two passes of the all-time Notre Dame record, but the Irish will need more than this to come up with a winning season. 
It started as a war of nerves with Southern California refusing to take the football field first. 
It ended with Trojan Coach John McKay wrapping his arm around the shoulder of Notre Dame Coach Ara Parseghian. 
In between, top-ranked USC intercepted seven passes and recovered two fumbles to crack Notre Dame 24-7. Last year in Los Angeles the Irish had handed the Trojans their worst loss in history, 51-0. And the 24-7 loss was Parseghian's worst in four seasons at N.D. 
"After the game when I put my arm around Ara, I just wanted to check him out," laughed McKay. "He looked like he was putting on weight to me, and I wanted to let him know that I could see it." 
The start of the game was delayed about six minutes. 
"I was not going to take my team onto the field first," said McKay. "Two years ago, Notre Dame kept our boys waiting on the field in the rain for about 15 minutes before they made their appearance. Then they walloped us, 28-7. 

"This time if Notre Dame had not gone out there first, there just wouldn't have been a game. "At the start of the game," McKay continued,' "Our kids couldn't hear because of the noise from the fans and they kept jxunping off side. When we got a good lead, I noticed it had a quieting effect. 
"We had more speed, better running backs and just better football players in there than Ara did—and that's why we won," McKay added. "Southern Cal hadn't won at Notre Dame since 1939 and I was getting awfuUy tired of being reminded of this." 
McKay said that in the second half, when the Trojans scored aU their points, he started running O. J. Simpson outside and that this was possible because Jim Lawrence "did an excellent job blocking the ends." 
"Notre Dame's Terry Hanratty probably was hurt some by his receivers today," McKay commented. "I can under­stand why Jim Seymour had some difficulty with his catches because he has dislocated fingers." Parseghian said the differences in the two halves was field position. 
"Their big play was their first touchdown after re­covering the second half kickoff on our 18," Parseghian said. "The number of mistakes for such a big game as this is unbelievable." 
Simpson was everything we expected," said Parseghian. "He is very tough to contain for 60 minutes. I think we 
did a good job on him in the first half, but Southern Cal's field position in the last half changed the complexion of the game. 
"Adrian Young, their hnebacker, was fantastic. He was in the right place at the right time all day and intercepted four passes. Their defensive end, Tim Rosso­vich, kept pressure on us aU day and Mike Battle at safety also was outstcmding." 
Dec. 8, 1967 


Gome 5; ND 47, ILLINOIS 7 
Peoria Journal Star, Oct. 21 — XTOTRE DAME'S FIGHTING IRISH^ favored in every game ''-^ this season but owning a 2-2 record, are pegged a four-touchdown choice over Illinois before a capacity crowd of 71,000 in a rare football clash Saturday. 
The first Memorial Stadium sellout since the 1964 game with Ohio State finds Illinois trying for its first triumph over Notre Dame in a staggered 11-game series born 1898. 

Defensively strong, Illinois suffered considerably by the injury to No. 1 quarterback Bob Naponic, who will be sidelined along with also ailing halfback Dave Jackson and defensive Ken Kmiec against the Irish. The Irish will be minus two injured regular ball carriers — halfback Dan Harshman and fullback Ron Dushney, who will be replaced by Bob Gladieux and sophomore Jeff Zimmerman. 
"Illinois has as good a defensive team as we have seen all season," said coach Ara Parseghian whose Irish have not lost more than two games a season since he took the Notre Dame helm in 1964. 
Ara Parseghian a twinge of worry. 
The Irish defense held the Illinois running game to an amazing minus four yards, the lUini gaining 56 yards on the ground but losing 60. 
The complete Notre Dame grab bag of offensive punch included, aside from Quinn's long scoring run and the two touchdown flips to Seymour, two field goals and four con­versions by Joe Azzaro, a seven-yard scoring run by Zimmerman and two touchdowns by Gladieux. 
The Irish onslaught started in a mild sort of a way with the Illinois defense refusing to crack in the early going. 
Illinois owned the ball first but on fourth down the miseries started when a low pass from center eluded punter Charlie Bareither. Now Notre Dame owned the football. Three plays took the ball only to the five, though, and Azzaro was sent in to kick a field goal that was booted 21 yards from the goal post . . . 
. . . Azzaro swung his foot again for three more points with 9:52 left . . . 

COMEBACK CAMPAIGN IN CHAMPAIGN 
Peoria Journal Star, Oct. 22 — 
T T WOULD BE \'ERY DIFFICULT now convincing Illinois' 
-*- football brigade that Notre Dame is no longer No. 1. In fact, it would be dai'n near impossible. 
Rebounding from their humiliation at the hands of Southern Cal last week, an event that knocked them out of that magic top ten, the Irish swarmed over the Ulini for four first half touchdowns Saturday afternoon and eventually produced an easy 47-7 win. 
lUinois' only bit of fireworks was generated by the odd passing pair of Hanratty-to-IUini defensive halfback Ron Bess. 
Illinois did manage to pluck off four Hanratty passes, and Bess brought one back 75 yards for a touchdown and another for 77 yards just seven plays later. 
Before and after Bess' heroics, Illinois never caused 

1» 
Tom Schoen got the Irish moving to touchdown town when he took an Illinois punt from his 45 to the Ulini 33 late in the quarter . . . Zimmerman went up the middle for the touchdown . . . 
Hanratty's 18-yard scoring toss to Seymour came next and was done with perfect execution . . . 
Dick Tate swiped a Hanratty pass shortly thereafter but Illinois still couldn't move and the Irish took the return kick 62 yards in 12 plays with Gladieux charging up the right side for the second touchdown . . . 
Only 1:25 remained in the half but Notre Dame still had time for one more jab of the needle . . . Hanratty threw all the way to Seymour . . . 
Offensively, the second half was mild by comparison, although Bess' two runs helped balance things a bit for Illinois. • 
The Scholastic 
Game 6: ND 24, MSU 12 

vKi^Mmmmmmmmm^^mr^^ 

Detroit News, Oct. 28 — TX7ELL^ THIS IS THE WEEK of the football game the world ^^ has waited for. Michigan State vs. Notre Dame in the rematch of their bitter 10-10 tie last year that made the Irish the national champions and the Spartans the sarcastic runners-up. All 59,075 seats at South Bend were sold before July 1, and thousands of requests were turned down. Duffy Daugherty is featured in a national magazine article. ABC-TV executives patted each other on the back all summer because they had the national championship game 
on the schedule. Quiet, isn't it? All that fanfare seems to have died. Some of those fans who congratulated themselves on 
buying tickets must be the same ones who made hotel reservations for the World Series in Baltimore and Pitts­burgh. 
Now that Notre Dame has lost two games and Michi­gan State three, they're about as far from a national cham­pionship as the Orioles and Pirates. 
But really, the rivalry is still hot. 

"We've had the good fortune to always play well against Notre Dame," Daugherty said. "I expect our players to play as well as they are capable." 
Then Daugherty announced that Spartan practices are closed to everyone, even to writers who attend every day. It's the first time in at least six years the Spartans have become so secretive. 
Even before the climactic 1965 and '66 games, the practice field was open to the regular and familiar visitors. 
"You can't be trying to hide trick plays," a questioner said. "This must mean you are disciplining some players and don't want us to see who's missing from the first-string lineup." 
At the time, Daugherty said, "I'm closing practice for what I consider a good psychological reason. If I explained it any further, it would spoil the psychology." 
Today, however, Daugherty revealed that he had dis­ciplined a number of players and they would not make the trip to play against Notre Dame. The players were suspended after failing to meet the regular curfew hours following the team's return home from last Saturday's 21-0 loss at Minnesota. 
This means the injury-crippled Spartans wiU be even 



A STATE OF SUSPENSION 
more undermanned for the Notre Dame game. . . . 
Recalling Michigan State's sneering comments last year 
after Notre Dame accepted a tie rather than gamble for 
victory or defeat, someone asked Daugherty, "Will you 
play for a tie this year?" 
"Let's not say anything to get Notre Dame mad," Daugherty replied. "They've waited a long time to catch us in this position." 
Detroit News, Oct. 29 — TT WASN^T AS BAD as everyone expected. Michigan State ^ was no world beater, but neither was Notre Dame in the second annual Poll Bowl here Saturday afternoon. 
All week that sound you heard around downtown Detroit was bookies shaking their heads — no. 
They not only would not take a bet either way, they wouldn't even make a line. Maybe — just maybe if Michi­gan State quarterback Jimmy Raye could play, then Notre Dame might have as much as a 21-point edge. 
If he didn't, however, you could mortgage the house and steal the grocery money but nobody would handle your action. 
As it turned out, the bookies were pretty smart after all. Notre Dame had an edge in everything but incentive, held the Spartans to a mere four first downs in the first three periods and stiU came away with only a 24-12 victory before 59,075. 
With Notre Dame ahead, 17-0, at halftime, the play­ful Notre Dame student body unrolled what had to be a world record sign for the national television audience. 
"Last year a tie, this year you die. Hate State" it shouted. And it looked like that was going to be the case. 
Until they scored two touchdowns witliin 2:49 of each other in the fourth quarter, Michigan State had gone seven straight quarters spanning two weekends without scoring a point. 
They had been shut out by Minnesota last week, 21-0, at Minneapolis and their ranks had been depleted by in­juries and suspensions. 
Raye, who had injured his ribs in the first quarter against the Gophers, made the trip but he didn't dress for this one. In a football uniform, anyway. MSU Coach Duffy Daugherty should change Raye's haberdasher. 
The senior quarterback roamed the sidelines dressed in a black suit and black topcoat. 
Even the Irish head coach, Ara Parseghian, suspected Duffy of a ruse. Last Monday it was learned that six MSU 
Dec, 8, 1967 
regulars had been suspended for missing curfew after the Minnesota loss. 
Duffy never confirmed or denied the suspensions, which prompted the suspicion. Ara didn't even breathe easier when the six failed to make the train trip from East Lan­sing with the rest of the squad. 
"They'll be here, all right," a man remarked. "He's bringing them down in an armored car." 
Well, none of the six showed up, Duffy started his scrubinis, including nonletter-winning junior quarter­back Bill Feraco — and thereby closed his credibility gap once and for all. 
Make no mistake, Notre Dame controlled the game, but not in the manner to which Ara would like to become accustomed. 

Azzaro accounted for the rest of the Irish points. 
Michigan State's defensive secondary, as vulnerable from the air as a hospital ship in the first five games, was supposed to be Notre Dame's prime target. That's where Duffy had suffered the bulk of his personnel losses. 
But Parseghian pulled a switch there, elected to play ball control and Hanratty completed only eight of 15 passes for 99 yards and the one touchdown. Hanratty had thrown 63 times against Purdue. That had to make Duffy happy. 
Last year's super soph, Jim Seymour, of Royal Oak Shrine High, finally caught a pass against the Spartans. Last year in the hectic 10-10 tie at East Lansing he got shut out. Today he picked up one for 23 yards. 
"We changed our pass defense," Duffy explained later. 
In nine seasons spanning his career at Northwestern and Notre Dame, Parseghian now has beaten Daugherty a grand total of twice. Ara now leads the four-year series (since he's been at Notre Dame). 
But it didn't exactly come easy. Sophomore fullback Jeff Zimmerman repeated an earlier performance against Iowa, scoring three touchdowns against the depleted Mich­igan State team. 
Zimmerman, from Orwigsburg, Pa., ran for seven and 47 yards and caught a 30-yard pass from junior quarter­back Terry Hanratty — a fellow Pennsylvanian. 
A field goal and three extra points by placekicker Joe "We used a 4-3-4 alignment which stopped their passing game. But it made us more vulnerable to the run." Amen. 

Notre Dame picked up 280 yards on the ground (135 by sophomore Zimmerman) to 91. And Dwight Lee, the senior from Mt. Clemens, got 76 of the 91 — most of them in the fourth quarter after all was lost. 
The defeat tells you something about Michigan State. The Spartans are not a very good football team. 
They now have a 2-4 record with Ohio State, Indiana, Purdue, and Northwestern to go and they may not win two more games — which would leave them as Duffy's worst team in his 14 years at East Lansing. .. . • 
Gome 7: ND 43. NAVY 14 


SHIPWRECKED IN THE SNOW 

Washington Post, Nov. 4 '^AVY AND Notre Dame come into their game here -^^ Saturday with identical 4-2 records, but the resem­blance ends there. The Irish are 27-point favorites to crush the Middies for the fourth straight year. . . . The Irish have everything including enormous linemen, good running backs, the Terry Hanratty-to-Jim Seymour passing combination and the incentive to knock the dickens out of their remaining opponents and climb in the national rankings. To counter Notre Dame's might, Navy has the passing of John Cartwright, who has been magnificent under pressure this year. But that's all. . . . Realistically, Navy cannot hope to run against Notre Dame, or to stop the Irish ground game. The Middies have run well this season, but they have not been facing defensive linemen such as 280-pound Kevin Hardy or 270-pound Mike McCoy. . . . "I don't think they'll abandon the plan of throwing the ball," Elias said, but this may be wishful thinking. If Hanratty had an off day, Navy might pick off a pass or two and have a chance to win. But if the Irish simply crunch out yardage, it is difficult to see how the Middies can stop them. Even if they don't, there is the remote chance that Cartwright would outdo himself and offset Notre Dame's attack with a great passing performance. 
Baltimore Sun, Nov. 5 XJAVY KICKED away an early scoring opportunity then •*-^ kicked away the game as powerful Notre Dame annihilated the frustrated Midshipmen, 43 to 14, in Notre Dame Stadium today. Harassed, humbled then humiliated, Navy saw its fortunes plunge from mediocre to hopeless as the inspired Fighting Irish inundated the Middies for the fourth straight year. Navy fans could find little solace in the two touch­downs, the first offensive T.D.'s by Navy against Notre Dame since the 1963 game. Chilly winds and scattered snowflakes turned into a driving snowstorm that covered the field during the second half. Navy scored both its T.D.'s in the second half on short runs by quarterback John Cartwright. But the Middies were operating against Notre Dame reserves by then. During the first half it was a different story as the Irish swept to touchdowns five of the six times they had the baU. Navy had a chance to stem the tide early after electing to kick despite winning the toss. The opportunity was set up by sophomore Dan Pike's 
42-yard run on a halfback draw play which gave the Middies, who were trailing, 7-0, a first down on the Irish seven yard line. The drive stalled, however. 
From then until the end of the first half, Notre Dame mesmerized the visitors. 
Terry Hanratty's golden arm, running ability and play calling blended well with the Irish's scathing ground attack. Junior split end Jim Seymour caught four first half passes, establishing a new record for total yards on receptions. 
That gave Seymour every school pass reception record except the one for total touchdowns. The agile end needs only one more TD to tie that mark. 
Hanratty hit on eight of fourteen passes, all during the first half, and scored one touchdown. "Rocky" Bleier and Jeff Zimmerman chopped up the Middies' lackluster, outmanned defense, splitting 109 first half yards between them, as Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian displayed his rejuvenated running game. . . . 
Notre Dame stormed to 30 first downs against 12 for Navy. The Irish racked up 313 yards on the ground while compiling a total offense of 509 yards, more than double Navy's mark. . . . 
Notre Dame established its running game early, despite an eight man Navy line, using 15 consecutive ground plays to move 67 yards to a touchdown. 
"We tried to establish a running game," explained Parseghian, "because our passing actions are more effec­tive that way." 
"People were saying we didn't have a running game," agreed Hanratty. "I think we proved that we did today. I think we proved we have a well balanced attack." 
Kevin Hardy, the Irish's bulwark on defense, showed no signs of a troublesome ankle injury that has hindered him this season, a fact he reaflBrmed in the locker room. "I went all out and it didn't hurt a bit," he said. 
Parseghian called Pike's run "the only mistake we made during the first half." 
Navy's John Cartwright had his worst game of the season, hitting only nine of 27 passes, but the fierce Notre Dame rush, which forced Navy to hold receivers in for blocking purposes, intimidated the Navy thrower. 
"I was proud of this group," said Elias. "They came back. You wouldn't have thought the score was 35-0. Notre Dame went after us. Our game plan was good but when you're against a superior force, you can't cry. They just beat us." 
Dec. 8, 1967 
Game 8: ND 38, PITT 0 


PITT STOP BEFORE THE 500th 
- WELL.tOnoRBOW M' THE STADIOM WE HfSVC AW IRREPRESSIBLE FORCE MEETIHSAM IMMUTABLE OBJECT, euTltoU DON'T NEED A €LIDCCUI.E T O COKie UP WITH THE KHSWER.. 

Pittsburgh Press, Nov. 12 — npHE IRISH DIDN'T NEED even a little bit of their legen­••• dary luck yesterday at Pitt Stadium. They merely turned their buffaloes loose and for the third straight year Notre Dame stampeded Pitt, this time by 38-0 . . . .. . It was expected to be a sellout but the crowd of 54,705 was almost 3000 short of capacity . . . more than 2000 students wisely chickened out and missed the mis­match. Terry Hanratty, Notre Dame's quarterback from But­ler, was not forced to resort to anything fancy — merely 
power plays through the line and a pass here and there 
to keep the drives going. Notre Dame rushed for 280 
yards to Pitt's 15. 
Jeff Zimmerman softened up the Pitt defense on the first two drives and gained 89 yards before leaving the game in the third quarter. Hanratty didn't even need his favorite receiver, Jim Seymour, the Notre Dame record holder. Seymour was left at home — a leg injury. 
Hanratty completed eight of 13 passes and four of them went to the tight end, Jim Winegardner, for 66 yards. 
The Pitt offense, meanwhile, was stymied until the fourth period. The Panther quarterbacks should get a guest shot on the television series, "Run for your life." 
Under the Notre Dame rush, the Pitt passers barely had time to get back into the pocket. On rollouts, the Irish linebackers were always there to make the stop. . . . 
. . . While the Notre Dame fans had plenty to be proud of and plenty to cheer about, Pitt partisans sat mutely except on two occasions. 
The first came when the Pitt defense stopped the Irish on fourth down inches from the goal, halting Notre Dame's first drive of the day. Moments later, however, the Irish took the starch out of the Panthers when George Medich had to punt from his end zone and Notre Dame marched 36 yards for the score. By the middle of the second period it was 24-0 and most everyone knew it was already over. 
The second and last time the Panthers gave their fans an inconsequential thrill came in the fourth period when Winters threw a 38-yard pass to Wingback Joe McCain and interference was called against Tom Quinn on the Irish 26. But on the next play, Pitt tried a halfback pass and George Pribish was engulfed on the 25 and fumbled, Larry Schumacher recovering for Notre Dame. 
Tom Schoen, the veteran safetyman from Euclid, O., was voted the game's MVP. Before the half ended, Schoen picked off a Winters' pass and returned it 40 yards to the Pitt 14. The return gave Schoen a Notre Dame career record of 226 yards, surpassing Paul Hornung's old record of 212 yards on interceptions. 
Hanratty also passed Hornung among the career total offense leaders, and brought his total to 2761 yards when he bolted over left end 15 yards for his second touchdown that made the score 30-0. The last score came after Pitt made its only penetration into Notre Dame territory on the passes to McCain and Fedorchak and Notre Dame recovered Pribish's fumble. 
Coley O'Brien directed the Irish 73 yards and the big gains were made by Ron Dushney and Frank Criniti. Dave Haley dived over the goal from the one-foot line and O'Brien ran the ball for two points. • 
The Scholastic 

Game 9: ND 36. GEORGIA TECH 3 
Atlaata Journal, Nov. 18 — 
A GAINST THE AWESOME MIGHT of Notre Dame, Georgia -^ Tech will have only its awesome tradition and pride when two of the finest names in college football tangle Saturday on Grant Field. 
Perhaps only pride will sustain the Techmen in the duel which lists Tech as a 24-point underdog — possibly the largest pre-game deficit the Yellow Jackets have ever faced. 
Tech Coach Bud Carson said, "We don't ever think of losing before a game. I don't think anybody at Tech has ever anticipated a loss. We go into every game thinking we're going to win. 
"What we do think of is what we'll have to do to win and against Notre Dame we know we'll have to do an awful lot and do it awfully well." 
As they have been all year, Carson's forces are deci­mated by injury. The plague that struck down so many quarterbacks earlier in the season has now spread through the ranks. 
Tailback Lenny Snow, of course, is out for the year and Carson commented, "We'll miss Lenny. . . ." 
"Notre Dame does a lot of things and they do all of them well," Carson said of the Irish who lost two early season games, then came back for four straight wins and a re-entry into the top 10 on a 6-2 mark. Tech has won four of eight starts. 
The two Irish losses were to Southern Cal and Purdue, and Carson added, "I don't think either Southern Cal or Purdue would beat Notre Dame if they had to play 'em now. 
"Notre Dame had a weak rushing game when the season started but they have a great ground game now." Passing is still strong with Terry Hanratty throwing to Jim Seymour. 
He pointed to the emergence of running back Jeff Zimmerman who has rushed for 443 yards in 99 tries. Carson also pointed out the spectacular might of the offensive line which averages 229.3 pounds per man to Tech's defensive average of 209.5. 
On defense, the visitors are even more imposing with a front wall averaging 251.2 to the Yellow Jackets' pounds-per-man figure of 209.3. 

Atlanta Journal, Nov. 19 — 
Tj^OR 15 MEsroTES AND SIX PLAYS_, Georgia Tech held the " world of Grant Field in its meaty palm Saturday after­noon. The rest of the day belonged to a football team from South Bend, Ind., ambitious to improve its national social standing, and the result was a Notre Dame victory. 
Last week, the Jackets were a rung in Miami's ladder in the Hurricane's anxiety to regain lost prestige. This time the Irish, floundering at No. 9, used them to recon­struct some of their tattered glory, and for those who follow historical matters, to score the 500th victory in the glorious records of the team whose name has become synonymous with college football. 
For a quarter, it was more than a flight. Tech carried the message to the Irish and flnaUy converted their enthu­siasm for the occasion into a 3-0 lead. In the second quar­ter, though, Notre Dame turned the game inside out. 
Quarterback Terry Hanratty then directed his associ­ates to three touchdowns. By intermission Notre Dame led, 21-3, and the contest was over. Halfbacks Bob Bleier and Bob Gladieux scored two touchdowns each for Notre Dame. Fullback Jeff Zimmerman gained 76 yards in 18 carries and led all scrimmage runners. But Hanratty was the one individual who did the Jackets in. 
The junior quarterback completed seven of nine passes for 89 yards, one for a touchdown, and carried the baU 10 times for 56 yards, amounting to 145 yards. The game was in the latter stages of the third quarter before one of his passes failed after seven completions in a row. 
The Jackets made the first quarter their own private quarter. BUI Eastman skillfully returned Kevin Hardy's end zone punt 23 yards to the Notre Dame 23-yard line. The Irish defense, which was never very considerate of the Jackets, stubbornly resisted any further advance, and Carmichael came aboard to kick a 42-yard field goal. 
The Jackets took the ball away from them on the very next kickoff. However, this was to be the end of the line for them. . . . Six plays into the second quarter Notre Dame took the baU at their 23 and Hanratty directed a 77-yard tour to touchdown territory in seven quick plays. 
Most of the 77 yards came by passing, and at Tech's 38, Hanratty reached back for a little something extra. He got Gladdiux behind Tech's secondary and hit his half­back with a touchdown pass at the five-yard line, and the rest was easy.... • 


NUMBER 500 IN SOUTHERN COMFORT 
'•«j 

,.*?, 
^ ^.wrs.!**^*^'*"*­
*<t"'- 'ife 

Gome 70; ND 24. Miami 22 





TIGHT SQUEEZE 
in the 


ORANGE BOWL 
Miami Herald, Nov. 24 — A/'on DON'T HAVE TO BE a Miami fan to consider this one 
^ of the most important games in UM history. Notre Dame's Ara Parseghian, for one, thinks it's about as big as a g£ime can get. 
"I don't think anything could happen that would add more stimulus for the players than they already have," Parseghian said. "There's as much incentive as a bowl game could have. 
"Both team-s are on winning streaks. Miami has won six in a row and we've won five. Both of us are in the top ten nationally with a chance to get higher in final i-ankings. How much more enthusiastic can anybody get?" 
Coach Chai'lie Tate agrees. Even before major bowls began passing out invitations — and passing up the Hurri­canes— he was saying, "Notre Dame is our bowl game." 
Defenses could dominate tonight's proceedings. "Miami's defense is outstanding," said Parseghian. "Their allowing only 14 points in the last four games proves that. Charlie has done a remarkable job since Miami lost to Northwestern in its opener." 
Notre Dame's line, anchored by All-America tackle Kevin Hardy, could be too tough for such talented run­ners as Vince Opalsky, John Acuff, and Doug McGee. The question, Parseghian says, is will Hardy be available to anchor his eight-man front? 
Hcirdy re-injured an ankle last Saturday against Georgia Tech and has been unable to work this week in South Bend's snow and rain. "We probably won't know about Hardy until a couple hours before kickoff," Par­seghian said. "But I'm not counting Kevin out . . . he's made some fantastic recoveries before when we didn't expect him to play." 
Accompanying the Irish, but on crutches, will be Cap­tain Rocky Bleier, the No. 2 rusher and receiver, and starting defensive end Chick Lauck. Both required sur­gery after suffering knee injuries against Tech. 
Parseghian blinked at the totally blue sky and the happy old sun. "That's xmusual for us. People at Georgia Tech probably thought I was kooky last week when I told them that was the third day we'd seen sun in six weeks." 

One look at the sun had to suffice for the Irish. They saw none ot Miami's bright light Thui'sday evening unless they turned up the lamps in their rooms. 
"We don't go out the night before a game for any­thing," said Parseghian. "I didn't even go to the Notre Dame rally at a Miami Beach hotel. The night before a game is a time for being together and to contemplate." 
Miami Herald, Nov. 25 — 
T^OR 20 MINUTES FRIDAY NiGHT^ it was all a'grinnin' and 
" a'hollerin' for Miamians from the Orange Bowl clear to Texas. For most of the last 40 minutes, it was just a'cryin' and a'bleedin'. 
The Hurricanes had Notre Dame down and dying, 13-3. The flat prospect was that you wouldn't have been able to find an Orange Bowl Committeeman on the streets this morning. The committee's snub of the town team was being avenged as clearly as if a kindly destiny were willing it that way. Bluebonnet Bowl oflScials in Houston must have been sailing their 10-gallon hats across oil-fields. 
Then the quality of Notre Dame's running game and the slashed-down inadequacy of Miami's offense man­ifested themselves simultaneously. 
Miami still had a chance to tie at 24-24 with three minutes left. Another wobbly pass went tumbling off into nowhere. The wondrous dream of summertime had van­ished — poof! — into a clot of dark jerseys, which be­longed to a better football club. 
Miami gave it a shot and a half with what it had to shoot with. The Hurricanes had every chance not only to win but to turn it completely upside down when they had the Irish down by 10 points in the second quarter. 
But the biggest game of all for Miami ended as it did for the same reason that Miami started the season as poorly as it did. 
The Hurricane passing game, buttoned down by a colossal rush and skintight coverage in the secondary, stuttered more often than it struck. 
And very little of the running game remained after Vince Opalsky was knocked out on the first series and 
The Scholastic 

Joe Mira and John Acuff later pulled up lame. 
Advance word was that this would be a match of Miami's defense against Terry Hanratty's passing. It was not that at all. It was settled by a rabbit-quick junior named Bob Gladieux hammering into and hustling out of the middle of Miami's line for a total of 80 yards in plays that feU like strokes of doom. 
Everybody forgot that the Irish running and not the Irish passing had accounted for five straight victories, averaging 273 yards rushing to 137 passing. 
Notre Dame didn't forget. Notre Dame beat Miami where Miami couldn't be beaten — inside. 
Miami News, Nov. 26 — TN LAST NIGHT'S football masterpiece there were some ^ glamorous, fervently recruited star actors. Ironically, it was a couple of "walk-ons" who got in the last crushing word, though, and points. 
Joe Azzaro, the young man whose toe provided the winning margin before a record Florida crowd of 77,265 was a Pittsburgh product who was scouted and rejected by Miami. 
And the effervescent young fellow who uttered the final verbal squelcher was a Miamian on the Notre Dame squad. 
He was the last Irish player off the field. He was number 10. His uniform was bright and unsullied. He hadn't played. In fact, his name wasn't even in the pro-have been more joyous if he had won the game and owned a full scholarship. 
As his wildly happy Irish teammates were throwing coach Ara Parseghian into the showers, Torrado was directing his locker room visitor to Azzaro. 
"Here's a story for you, he's a guy who had to struggle for it — and his kicks won the game tonight," Torrado bubbled. 
"I became a walk-on at Notre Dame," Azzaro, a senior, related above the celebrating noise in the dressing room. "I went there on my own. At the end of my sophomore year they gave me a scholarship. I went to Notre Dame because I loved the school." 
Azzaro put the Irish ahead twice — 3-0 with a 22-yard field goal in the first quarter, and 17-16 to stay with an extra point in the third quarter. His extra point follow­ing Notre Dame's fourth-period touchdown provided the final margin of victory. 
The Irish were unstinting in their praise of Miami. 
"They're the best defensive team we've played," Han-ratty said. "They should be 9-1 for the season and not 6-3. 
"I'd rate them right behind Southern Cal and ahead of Purdue," said huge tackle Kevin Hardy. 'T admired the way they came back after we had them 24-16." 
What inspiring, arousing message did Parseghian have for the Irish at haKtime, with Notre Dame on the short end of a 16-10 score? 
"Miami's the best," somebody yelled at him as he "He just told us we had set up Miami's touchdowns ducked into the tunnel to the Notre Dame dressing room. in the first half with our mistakes," Zimmerman recalled. "Look at the scoreboard, kid!" shouted back number "He told us not to make the same mistakes in the second 10, Rene Torrado, son of a Bal Harbour surgeon and a half. We didn't change anything. They're the biggest 
bare-footed kicker. team we've played outside of Southern Cal, but they're The junior, who has kicked only three times for the really quick. A lot like We are — big and quick." Irish this season, is still paying his own way, but couldn't Gladieux also remarked on Miami's quickness. 
Dec. 8, 1967 
"They were really keyed up, really inspired," he com­
mented. "Although it wasn't warm for Miamians, the 
weather bothered us in the first half since we had been 
working out in rain and snow and 30-degree temperatures. 
We got our second wind in the second half." 
Over in the Miami dressing room, Coach Charlie Tate 
commented, "Notre Dame is every bit as good as we 
thought they were . . . they're great. We're good, too. I 
thought it was a game between two evenly matched teams. 
We proved we can line up and play with anybody. We had 
some bad breaks, but I'm not offering any alibis." 
One of the breaks to many UM fans' way of thinking came in the first quarter when Irish safetyman Tom Schoen retreated back into the end zone on a punt and was swarmed under for what looked like a safety. Offi­cials ruled Schoen tried to stop at the one-foot line and was forced into the end zone by tacklers. 
"I certainly thought he was still running backward," Tate said. "But I certainly wouldn't want to comment on it until I've looked at the game films. 
"I thought we did a good defensive job against their passing. Ted Hendricks made some key defensive stops and our whole line put pressure on Ham-atty. He was probably chased as much tonight as he ever was before." 
Notre Dame coach Parseghian was full of praise for Miami, too. "Miami," he said, "is a great football team, 

too great to make the kind of mistakes we made tonight. They had to go just 26 yards to get two touchdowns. You can't do that to a good football team." 
Parseghian was proud that the Irish elected to award the game ball to injured halfback Bob Bleier. 
"A fine gesture," said the coach. "He's been a lot of football player for us and we missed him tonight. Kevin Hardy had to play right end because Chuck Lauck was hurt too. Bleier is our regular punter and Hardy had that bad left ankle. He almost didn't play. You can hardly blame him for getting off those bloopers." 
Trailing, 3-0, after the first quarter, the Hurricanes struck for two touchdowns within a startling space of just 18 seconds to surge into a 13-3 lead. 
Safetyman Jimmy Dye raced 49 yards with a Kevin 
Hardy punt to the Irish nine to groom the scoring stage. 
Fullback Doug McGee then made a spectacular leaping 
catch of a Dave Olivo pass while going backwards on third 
down and fell into the end zone for the touchdown. 
It came with only 108 seconds gone and was the first time Notre Dame had been scored against this season in the second quarter, compared with 134 second-period points of their own. 
Ray Harris kicked the seventh point, then Phil Tracy kicked off to the Irish's Dan Harshman. Suicide squadder Jim Kresl hit Harshman savagely at the 22, the ball squirted toward the Irish goal and Tracy pounced on it at the 17. 
Olivo fired 16 yards to John Acufl, then Olivo sneaked across for the second touchdown as thousands of Notre Dame subway alumni sat in stunned silence. 
Harris' kick was wide and low, and eventually this was to make gigantic difference in Miami's chances of a pos­sible tie or win. 
But it was still 13-3 and who would have believed the UM could get that far in front of the mighty Irish so early? 
Quarterback Terry Hanratty regrouped his forces after Jim Smithberger, one of Parseghian's three quick and tough deep backs, picked off an Olivo pass at the Irish 38. 
Terry took them 62 yards in just four plays. The first was a 14-yard pass to Jim Seymour. Miami then let full­back Jeff Zimmerman get away for 39 yards on a flare pass. 
From the UM nine, Hanratty sneaked to the one from where Ed Ziegler scored. Azzaro's kick carved Miami's margin to 13-10 with 5:56 left in the half. 
A 35-yard run by Acuff and a holding penalty soon gave Miami another scoring chance. But the alert Irish secondary stymied Miami's passing despite Mira and Acuff even trying halfback throws. So Tracy came through with a 37-yard field goal to boost Miami in front, 16-10, with 3:33 in the half. 
Using Zimmerman as the hammer (he carried five straight times for 36 yards) — Notre Dame marched their 51 yards in 11 ground smashes for the tying touchdown. 
Azzaro's kick gave the Irish the lead for good, 17-16, with 4:56 remaining in the third quarter. 
With Tate juggling the weary Olivo and Miller at quarterback, the Hurricanes subsequently achieved the Irish 22, only to settle for a field goal attempt by Tracy. A high snap and deflection by Pergine foiled the 39-yard field goal try. 
After the Irish increased their edge to 24-16, the UM battled to a first down at the Irish 12 only to have four consecutive Olivo passes foiled by the victors. One looked like a TD catch for Cox, but Jim caught the ball a step out of the end zone. 
When Hardy got off a poor 25-yard punt out of bounds at the Irish 28 with 4:37 left, the Hurricanes still were in business. 
In a valiant effort to notch their seventh straight victory and make the Bluebonnet people happy and the Orange Bowl people unhappy, the Hurricanes drove 28 yards in the closing minutes to reduce Notre Dame's lead to 24-22. 
Miller, a senior bench rider most of the season, hit split end Jim Cox with a 16-yard pass at the Irish one-yard line to set up a one-yard touchdown plunge by Joe Mira. 
But the sixth-ranked Irish didn't have Miami beat until linebacker Bob Olson batted doAvn a two-point pass by Bill Miller in the end zone with three minutes re­maining. • 
The Scholastic 


OUTSTANDING PLAYERS OF NOTRE DAME'S 1967 SEASON 
vs. CALIFORNIA TERRY HANRAnr 
In 1966 Terry Hanratty finished fifth in the Heisman trophy balloting, and in his 1967 debut he came out throwing. Despite a mediocre per­formance against a weak team, Han­ratty was a standout on offense. Thirty Hanratty passes filled the air and fifteen found their tai'gets, two for touchdowns. Bleier and Seymour pulled in two of the touchdowns and Hanratty scored another himself on a diving roU-out into the end zone. 
Passing was not the only story that Saturday, as Terry dominated the running game, too. Leading the rush­ers, Hanratty gained 46 yards on the ground in addition to his 208 yards in the air. Hanratty's spectacular per­formance covered up what appeared to be a weak ground game. The over­all confidence of Hanratty and the ex­plosive offense of 1966 carried over into this, the opening game of 1967. 
2« 

BACKS 
vs. PURDUE LEROY KEYES 
Calling Leroy Keyes best back of the Purdue-Notre Dame game is like calling Charles de Gaulle a French­man or Claudia Cardinale a woman. There is just no doubt. For Notre Dame fans, it was like watching the Lone Ranger rob a bank; but, some­how, tremendous respect emerged from momentary hate. 
Only two quarterbacks got into the game, Phipps and Hanratty, but Keyes caught passes from each of them. Phipps hit flanker-back Keyes nine times for 108 yards including an eleven-yard touchdown strike. Han­ratty delivered to defensive back Keyes on an interception which doomed the Irish with 1:39 remain­ing in the game. 
Leroy Keyes entered the Purdue-Notre Dame game as an explosive threat; after the game, Notre Dame was still receiving shock waves from the explosion. 
vs. IOWA DAN HARSHMAN 
Dan Harshman, a senior halfback, turned in a fine job in this game, gain­ing over 60 yards on the ground and in the air. Although he didn't score against the Hawkeyes, he caught some key passes and picked up vital yard­age on the early touchdown drives of the Irish. His catch of a Terry Han­ratty pass at the eight-yard line in the first period set up the first Notre Dame score of the game, a two-yard keeper by Hanratty. He finished the game with 34 yards rushing in eight carries, for a 4.3 average, and caught four passes for 29 yards, slightly bet­ter than a seven-yard average. 
Although injuries hampered his performance, Harshman gained 85 yards this season in 23 carries, and caught 10 passes for an average gain of 8.5 yards. 
The Scholastic 


vs. use 
O. J. SIMPSON 
Before the 1967 season, John Mc­Kay told his team they had two jobs to do: "beat Notre Dame in South Bend and beat UCLA in the Coliseum." It seems that John McKay was the only person to accurately forecast the crucial points of the '67 season. John McKay came to South Bend and brought his O. J. from L. A. with him. Nobody knew much about Simpson until Southern Cal began their season and started to roll over such pre­season favorites as Texas and Mich­igan State. Then the first of John McKay's two-part challenge presented itself — to beat Notre Dame in South Bend. The first half revealed a ground game that revolved around the running of Simpson. But it wasn't until the second half that O. J. broke loose for the long gainers around end for which he is known. The fact that Simpson carried the ball a total of 38 times and gained 160 yards proved his effectiveness and durability as the nation's best running back. Thanks to O. J., John McKay fulfiUed his prophecy and brought to Southern California the national championship for the 1967 season. 
vs. ILLINOIS BOB GLADIEUX 
Notre Dame's game was passing — the Irish could not mount an effective running attack, they said. The dis­believers were answered conclusively in the N.D. battle with Illinois. Sub­bing for injured Dan Harshman, Bob Gladieux turned in an outstanding performance against the Illini. A sophomore hero in last year's historic tilt with Michigan State, Bob kept the Champaign Boys drowned in sor­row as he treaded his way through rip-torn holes in the Illinois line for 107 yards, hurling over the goal-line for two scores. In the previous four games the 185-pound junior had gained only 45 yards in 16 carries, but apparently getting a crack at a starting role gave him the added spark. Paired with Jeff Zimmerman and company next year, Bob should make the Irish backfield devastating. 
vs. MSU JEFF ZIMMERMAN 
Notre Dame's early season weak point, its running game, came into its own to convincingly batter Michigan State into submission, and it was a sophomore fullback, Jeff Zimmerman, who gave it character. Zimmei'man accounted for all three Irish touch­downs in the 24-12 triumph, on the way lugging the ball 135 yards in 20 carries for a lusty 6.8 yards a crack. When the Irish drove 84 yards in 12 running plays for the game's first TD, the slashing fullback rushed for 41 yards in five tries including the final seven yards on a burst through the middle of State's line. In the sec­ond quarter Zimmerman proved to be an extra threat as a receiver, taking a 5-yard aerial from Terry Hanratty and racing the remaining 25 yards to pay dirt. Zimmerman capped the day off with an explosive touch in the third quarter; the pride of Orwigs­burg. Pa. rambled off tackle and, two zigs and a zag later, had his third score of the afternoon. Three Spar­tans had clear shots at him along the way, but Jeff Zimmerman on Oct. 28 was a hard man to satisfy. 
The Scholastic 
vs. NAVY ROCKY BLEIER 
"Good pass, no run" — so went the scouting report on the 1967 Notre Dame team. But the Navy-Notre Dame game proved otherwise. Driving relentlessly with the ball from the be­ginning of the game, the Irish dis­played surprising potency in their ground attack. 
But the performance of Captain Bob Bleier surprised no one. Probably the team's most consistent player all year, Bleier collected 69 yards rushing in just 10 carries. Bursting through the line and running wide. Rocky led the Irish offense to a touchdown on its first offensive sequence of plays. Bleier scored two early touchdowns; the out­come was never in doubt. The captain stayed with his ship, and it never sank. 
vs. PITTSBURGH TOM SCHOEN 
Sweeping through waves of tacklers like Ghengis Khan blazing through China, Tom Schoen lived up to his 

Ail-American reputation in the Pitt game. The safety man extraordinair did everything he was expected to do, and more. Tom set up Notre Dame's second score in the opening period when he returned a punt 21 yards to the Pitt 37. After settling for a 34­yard field goal by Joe Azzaro, Schoen made it 24-0 when he fielded a punt, slipped loose from a maze of bewil­dered tacklers and zigzagged his way toward the goal line 78 yards down-field. Before the half-time festivities were under way, Schoen again electri­fied the crowd when he picked off a stray pass, returning it 40 yards to the Pitt 14. The return gave Schoen a Notre Dame career record of 226 yards on interceptions, surpassing Golden Boy Paul Hornung's total of 212 yards. 
vs. GEORGIA TECH TOM O'LEARY 
Scrappy Georgia Tech had their frenzied patrons harboring upset no­tions but "The Big O" in the Notre Dame SOS defensive secondary, Tom O'Leary, kept those notions from be­coming anything more. Late in the first quarter Tech, already leading 3-0, recovered a fumble at the Irish 
15. On third and eight O'Leary was present to break up one pass; on fourth down Tech's excellent receiver, Johnny Sias, made a great catch only to be slammed down immediately by Tom O'Leary a long two yards away from a first down. Tech's momentum was broken and the Irish now owned the game, but it was left to the senior defensive halfback to convincingly drive home the point. The engineers from Atlanta, trailing 14-3, were fill­ing the air with pigskin in the closing moments of the half when O'Leary intercepted at his own 46. He weaved through tacklers, reversed his field and was finally bumped out of bounds only four yards short of the goal line. O'Leary didn't quite make the end zone, but Bob Bleier did on the next play and it was home free for the Irish after that. 
vs. MIAMI . JIM SMITHBERGER 

From intercepting a pass in the first half, to breaking up an enemy aerial with eight seconds left. Senior half­back Jim Smithberger did it aU against Miami. Although the Hurricanes attempted 49 passes against the Irish, they could complete only 16, and one of the big reasons was Smithberger. His evening in Miami including break­ing up four, intercepting one, and nearly coming up with a shutout of the receivers he guarded. 
Jim made seven tackles against the Hurricanes, to make his career total 101 for 20 games, with six intercep­tions, two of them this year. 

LINEMEN 
vs. CALIFORNIA DAVE MARTIN 
As Hanratty sparkled on offense, signal caller Dave Martin lowered the boom on defense. Under Martin's leadership the defen.se hauled in four passes and forced three fumbles by the Golden Bears. Marl in accounted for two aerial robberies himself in introducing a defense that looked ready to take up where Jim Lynch left off in '66. 
Leadership was a question going into the season, and on defense Martin supplied the answer. A curt and ag­gressive veteran of three years, Martin and the first string held the Bears scoreless while they were on the field. But the job of a captain goes beyond his own pei'sonal per­formance. His job is to bring out the best performance in the men he leads. Everybody knew Dave Martin was a good football player before the sea­son opened, but that Saturday he stepped into the shoes of leadership vacated by Jim Lynch. The defense, under Johnny Ray, has developed a distinct tradition of its own. Part of that tradition are leaders like Carrol and Lynch. Dave Martin was the lead­er for 1967 and against California he coupled a fine individual performance with a spirited debut as defensive captain. 
VSc 
CHUCK KUZNESKI 
What's this? an offensive, interior lineman picking up accolades for line­man of the week? The Purdua-Notre Dame game was full of surpi-ises, not the least of which was the strength of Purdue's offensive line — Notre Dame's massive defense corralled quar­terback Mike Phipps only once in his backfield. 
Most surprising among the interior linemen was offensive tackle Chuck Kuzneski. Annihilating the weight ad­vantage of the Irish linemen by driv­ing his head and shoulders into the knees of his opponent, Kuzneski led the Purdue posse in rounding up the Notre Dame hombres. He was a big part of the coincidence that en­abled Phipps to get off 34 passes while only being caught once. 

vs. IOWA GEORGE KUNZ 
George Kunz, who started the year as an end, was moved to tackle for the Iowa game following an injury to Kevin Hardy at Purdue. Although the six-foot-five, 240-pound junior be­gan his career at tackle, it did take some doing for him to master the un­expected return to the interior line. His move was made after starting tackle Bob Kuechenburg had been moved into Hardy's defensive end spot. The fact that Kunz was able to master the tackle job allowed Kuech­enburg to remain on the defensive unit, where he did a fine job at end. This, in turn, allowed Hardy to move back to defensive tackle, a position at which he had more e.xperience, and thus gave Coach Johnny Ray the chance to rest two of his four de­fensive tackles, Hardy, Mike McCoy, Eric Norri, and Bob Jockisch, at all times. 
vs. use ADRIAN YOUNG 
Terry Hanratty had a bad day against Southern California and an Irish linebacker named Adrian Young provided four of the reasons why. As one of the Southern California cap­tains. Young called signals for one of the toughest defenses in the country. While shutting off Notre Dame's ground game, the linebackers teamed up with the defensive backs to frus­trate the Irish air attack all after­noon. Young picked off four Han­ratty passes, displaying an amazing aptitude for diagnosing pass plays. The hard-hitting Trojans handed Parseghian his biggest defeat in the past four years. Essentially the same defense that allowed the Irish to score 51 points and execute a crush­ing air attack in 1966 developed into an outstanding unit in 1967. Adrian Young was one of the reasons why that tough Southern Cal defense de­veloped. Sportswriters around the country have unanimously elected Young a 1967 AU-American. 
vs. ILLINOIS BOB KUECHENBERG 
Champagne flowed freely at Cham­paign, October 21, and unfortunately for the mini, the Irish did most of the pouring. The credit for keeping the cork on the Illini offense goes to Bob Kuechenberg and the defensive team for holding Illinois scoreless all afternoon. The 245-pound junior, who hails from Hobart, Indiana, set up the first score of the afternoon when he nailed Charlie Bariether after a broken-punt play on the Illinois 15­yard line. Illinois never did get much of an attack mounted. Finding the air ways turbulent, Illini quartei^back Bob Naponic took to the ground and found it equally bottled up, usually plugged by Kuechenberg and Co. The result: Illini rushing total minus-four yards. 
vs. MSU JOHN PERGINE 
If Michigan State's Regis Cavender is still wondering, the number of that blue and gold truck that stood him on his head was 50. No. 50, of course, actually belonged to a Notre Dame linebacker named John Pergine who proved to have an insatiable appetite for doing violence to the Spartans. Vicious is the only way to describe the Notre Dame defense that com­pletely humbled and constantly em­barrassed the Spartans until the game was well out of i-each. Senior Pergine led the charge that exacted physical revenge from the disrespectful rival, constantly jarring the MSU runners before they had time to close their eyes in anticipation of impact. Pergine's submarining of Cavender, the man who scored State's only touchdown in the historic 1966 game, was a thump destined for Notre Dame lore, but there were also an unsur­passed 15 other tackles that John Pergine accounted for in his own final crusade against the Spartans. 

32 The Scholastic 
K\m YOUNG ^mL 
vs. NAVY JIM SEYMOUR 
It all started back in 1966 against 
Purdue. A tall, thin end sprinted down 
the field, cut back to chase a pass that 
was about to fall short. Somehow, he 
got the ball. Jim Seymour had caught 
his first pass at Notre Dame. As 
the game unfolded, it became obvious 
that Notre Dame had found a new 
Jack Snow. 
The 1967 Navy game saw Seymour catch four passes for 64 yards and a touchdown, all in the first half; but this had come to be just an ordinary occurrence. It was, however, a mile­stone; Seymour now held all Notre Dame records for pass receivers except total touchdowns. At the end of the 1967 season, the junior end had caught 85 passes and had amassed 1,377 yards. Better than Jack Snow and Joe Heap—not bad, even for Jim Seymour. 
vs. PITT JIM WINEGARDNER 
The Fighting Irish were without the pass-receiving services of record-breaking end, Jim Seymour, when they squared off against Pitt's Pan­thers. The highly touted receiver was back in South Bend nursing an ankle 

»%T^»/p' 

^ A V 
%' 

injury, and this undoubtedly spelled upset in the minds of the Pitt eleven. Their newfound confidence was quick­ly subdued, though, when Junior Jim Winegardner took over the pass-catch­ing chores. The lanky 6'4" tight end snagged four of Hanratty's eight tosses for 66 yards. Jim set up N.D.'s first score when he plucked a Han-ratty aerial out of the sky on the Pitt 
20. Three plays later sophomore sen­sation Jeff Zimmerman hit pay dirt. 
vs. GEORGIA TECH KEVIN HARDY 
Southern football fans fancy that their "small but quick" teams can whip a team of giants, since "slow" is supposed to follow from "big." So the most surprisingly awesome fea­ture about Notre Dame that Georgia Tech fans noticed was the agility of men like Kevin Hardy when he sets his 270-pound frame in motion. The Rambling Wrecks found out early that when yards were needed, they weren't to be found through the Irish defensive line that Hardy anchored. That left Tech quarterback Kim King with the alternative possibility of trying to pass. With Kevin Hardy usually ending up in the same back­field with him. King showed a re­markable instinct for self-preserva­tion but no effectiveness as a passer. 
completing only 11 hurried throws in 35 attempts for a paltry 55 yards. In between punting, including the sea­son's longest boot of 54 yards from deep in Irish territory, Hardy's early intimidation of Tech helped teach the Wrecks to confine their rambling to Dixie. 
vs. MIAMI BOB OLSON 
With three minutes to go in the Orange Bowl, Miami lined up for a two-point conversion attempt, trailing the Irish 24-22. Bill Miller dropped back, threw, and there was Notre Dame's outstanding sophomore line­backer Bob Olson to knock it down. Which wasn't too unusual, really. Although Bob made only three tackles against the Hurricanes, his presence was felt by the Miamians, who three times saw Olson break up attempted aerials, and make one tackle in the Miami backfield. 
Olson didn't quite make it to Jim Lynch's record for tackles in a season, but he came close, finishing the season with 95 tackles. Outstanding for a soph. Bob was elected co-captain of next year's Fighting Irish, the first junior in 50 years to get that honor. It isn't easy to replace someone like Jim Lynch, but now Ara has to wonder what he'll do in 1971. 

/•->^ •••? 
r-^1: 
.^ m 
%^ 

1*'^:: m 
&«^'tC«£-fl 
-<*1 

^r%?M 
&y^ 

»^4 --, 
#^ 
issz 
The Specia/fsf: JOE AZZARO 






"GO AHEAD, ]0E" 
by Tony Ing?^affea 
Inside, Joe Azzaro is laughing all the time. He's six feet tall, but his noticeably graying hair is never quite that high above his feet which trans­port him in a seemingly unathletic, slow, deliberate shuffle. Joe always walks with his head down, his shoul­ders slightly forward, looking like he's going somewhere he really doesn't de­sire to go. His face shows that, too, heavy and morose, with wrinkles of intense concentration about his eyes. Joe doesn't like to sit when he can stand, rather, pace with that slow, deliberate shuffle. With his head down. Looking worried. But inside, Joe Az­zaro is laughing all the time. 

He was laughing when he walked onto his high school football field in Pittsburgh his senior year and told the coach he could kick a football pretty weU. In practice, he would aim not for the goal posts but for a large brick building about two blocks be­hind them. Joe really laughed when he broke an apartment house window with an extra point during a game; got a real kick out of four field goals. He booted one of them 47 yards. 
Joining the Notre Dame freshman team as a Wcilk-on, Joe was promised a scholarship which he received after his sophomore season. Joe recalls his first varsity appearance that year, "I got to kick off to U.C.L.A. in the sec­ond quarter. My name and number weren't in the program, so I was an­nounced as Ken Ivan. I was really nameless, and that got to be a big joke around campus." Joe's first kick­
off went seven yards deep in the end 
zone. He earned the starting kicker's 
job just before the Pitt game. His 
24 yard field goal provided the margin 
in a 17-15 Irish win. 
Having torn a muscle in the thigh of his kicking leg during the Navy game, Joe sat out his junior year, underwent surgery, and read a book. Suggested by a roommate's father, Psychocybernetics was Joe's bedside practice field for nearly a year. "It's a book that teaches how to be good at something without physically prac­ticing it. It teaches you to condition your mind to be good, and your body naturally follows." Anytime he felt the urge, Joe would close his eyes and "imagine the ball lifting high in the air with a perfect, slow end-over-end roU, with no ears, passing perfectly through the uprights." 
That's the psychological Joe Azzaro, a daydream, a portable practice field which, he says, is just as effective as the real thing. Joe has no supersti­tions. The only peculiarity about his pregame preparations is that he does not go to Moreau Seminary the night before home games. "And that's no superstition," he says. "Ara just never told me to go." During a game he paces the sideline, edging closer to Ara when a field goal situation seems imminent. When the decision is made, "it takes Ara about five seconds to consider the variables." Coach Par­seghian turns to him and says, "Go ahead, Joe," sometimes adding a mumbled "and watch the wind." 
Terry Hanratty calls the play and 

asks Joe if he is ready when the team 
is in formation. "From that moment 
until the baU goes, or doesn't go, 
through the uprights I frankly don't 
know what happens," comments Joe 
on the speed of execution and the in­
stinctiveness of his movements. From 
the snap until the ball leaves the tee 
may take as little as eight-tenths of a 
second, and averages about 1.2 sec­
onds. 
And the execution over three sea­sons has not only been quick, it has been record breaking. Joe now holds the records for most field goals in a season, 8, and most field goals in a career, 13. He missed only five. His PAT percentage, .908 on 79 of 87, is just shy of the record .914, and his total of 118 points ranks him thir­teenth on the list of aU-time Notre Dame scorers. 
If asked which game he thought was his best, Joe will answer Okla­homa of 1966, not because he had a perfect 5 for 5 PAT and one field goal performance, but because he broke the lighted scoreboard he was aiming at aU afternoon. Terry had to lead him off the field he was laughing so hard. 
If asked about the 1966 Michigan State game, he will just say, "Miss." 
If asked which season he tiiinks was his best, he'll reply 1967. "I scored 61 points this year and that's one more than Nick Eddy scored last year." And then he'll laugh. Inside, Joe AzzEuro is laughing aU the time. 
Dec. 8, 1967 
THE COACHES 
Credit for tlie Sixnslxine 
In recent years a unique innovation has been introduced into college athletics: when a team suffers through a dis­appointing season, the reaction, seemingly, is to fire the assistant coaches. This is admittedly a rather oblique method of acknowledging the importance of the assistant football coach, but the old adage should be recalled that those who bear blame for the rain may also take credit for the sunshine. A further indication of the growth of this trend is the ever-increasing number of assistant coaches who are making the jump to the head position itself. Army, Penn State, Oklahoma, Illinois, Wisconsin and Houston all boast head coaches whose last position was that of assistant. 
The coaching staff at Notre Dame supplies added proof that a modern team can hope to be competitive only if it has a large staff of capable specialists. If there is one aspect of Ara Parseghian's coaching prowess that deserves recognition, it is his ability to assemble a coaching staff of superb caliber. Nor has the quality of this group gone unnoticed: Doc Urich has already departed for the chal­langes of Buffalo, and John Ray has but to say the word. 
The coaching staff, like the team it guides, is well balanced. The offensive teams for the last four years have traditionally provided a bevy of All-American ma­terial and even a Heisman Trophy winner. The offense has been able to produce lopsided scores week after week: gone are the "score once and pray" days of the late fifties. From line to backfield this group proudly represents the tutelage of Tom Pagna, George Sefcik and Jerry Wampfler. 
And yet who can mention Notre Dame football with­out praising the defense molded by John Ray, Joe Yonto and Paul Shoults? Pex'haps not since 1957, when the de­fensive alignments planned by Bernie Crimmins snapped the awesome Oklahoma winning streak, has the defensive team been so glorified at Notre Dame. It is doubtful whether any well-balanced team has ever made such a proud cult of defense as have the Irish under John Ray. One might suspect that the very reason for this unnatural enthusiasm lies in the unique brand of Notre Dame de­fense. As played by the Irish, defense is really just an­other name for offense. One has only to recall Alan Page rumbling down-field with a blocked Purdue punt in 1964; Kevin Hardy forcing UCLA's Larry Zeno to fumble away the football twice inside the twenty on two con­secutive defensive plays that same year; the flashing punt returns of Nick Rassas in 1965, or the numerous enemy aerials that arrived in the Notre Dame end zone via Tom Schoen. At Notre Dame, the chant "defense" really means "we want a touchdown." 
The men behind these on-the-field heroics are also a team, in the strictest sense of the word. The week prior to each game demands mental preparation fully as com­plex as the physical preparation on the field. Work for the coaching staff begins early in the morning and seldom does lunch mean interruption. At dusk the office lights 
in the Rock continue to burn. Each game poses a battle 
of wits and strategy between two rival coaching staffs, 
and each man, offense or defense, must be prepared for 
any eventuality or surprise. It is a tribute to this week-
long coaching effort that Notre Dame is seldom the team 
to suffer the unexpected. 
The battle of coaching wits does not end on Saturday morning, however. During the game a strict adherence to the game plan must be maintained, and yet the ability to capitalize on opponent's mistakes must be exploited. The center of the struggle is the press box, where Paul Shoults and George Sefcik man the phones to the side­lines. The turmoil here mirrors the action on thefield— Coach Shoults seldom sits as he relays information to the field. The press box spotters are concerned with the de­fense in most instances, but other pertinent suggestions are also made. In between maneuvering the Irish line­backers during the Purdue game, for instance, the spotters suggested the very effective pass to the fullback over the middle. 
Some coaches seldom see the Irish play, however. Joe Yonto, for instance, is usually on the road scouting future opponents. Here again the pace is frantic: "It's a rough and tedious schedule," comments Coach Yonto, "and one that involves quite a bit of travelling." Before the season opened, Yonto spent the weekend on the Pacific Coast watching Southern Cal play on Friday night and Califor­nia the following afternoon. The grind does not end with the season: Yonto will scout Oklahoma in their Orange Bowl clash with Tennessee. The result of this constant travel is a detailed report specifying every tendency and failing of an opponent. 
Postseason activity is not restricted to scouting. As soon as the Indiana snows submerge the playing fields, recruiting activity must begin. During the week follow­ing the Miami finale, for instance, only one coach was not on the road in search of future talent. And the struggle for players of ability has grown increasingly competitive. When Penn State played Miami this year the Lions fielded only one more starting Pennsylvanian than the Hurricanes. In this contest the football name of Notre Dame is more than balanced by a prospect's fear that he will spend his four years at Notre Dame sitting on tlie bench behind a superior player. It speaks highly of Notre Dame re­cruiting, however, that it has more often than not been successful. Take, for example, the Irish backfield: at a position where most coaches would be grateful for one player of ability, the Gold and Blue boast Hanratty, O'Brien and Belden. 
The position of coach is an involved and tiring one, yet the average fan might be aware of the staff only as he watches the Notre Dame pregame warm-up. The crisp­ness and efficiency with which they run the warm-up, from calisthenics to drill, is an accurate reflection of their polished professionalism and ability. 
The Scholastic 
/-«'.«: '._ 

1968 SCHEDULE 

The Freshmen 
September 21—Oklahoma at Notre 
According to Doyle 
M
OORE'S SUMMATION starts with defense. Two of his best backs on either offense or defense, Robert Wack of Portland, Ore., and Ernie Jackson of BartlesviUe, Okla., could be a pair of replacements for the graduating Tom Schoen, Tow O'Leary and Jim Smithberger. 
Another halfback, called one of the best all-around backs he has seen, is Jim Sheahan of Bellevue, Wash. He could be used either way according to Moore. 
The linebacking trio of John Pergine, Dave Martin and Mike McGill gradu­ate, but their replacements could also come out of the freshman class. As outside linebackers, Bob Neidert of Akron, Ohio, and Jim Wright of Sparta, N.J., were Moore's starters at Pittsburgh in the only outside game of the season. Wright is also a baseball player and is the son of former Notre Dame guard Harry Wright, who played for Frank Leahy's teams in 1941-42. 
The inside backers are Mike Kondria of Oaklyn, N.J., and John McHale of Chamblee, Ga. McHale is the son of former N.D. player and present baseball executive, John McHale. 
OFFENSIVELY THE IRISH will be looking for help at center, guard, and half­back. Steve Buches, 6-3 and about 220, could be the helper at center. He's from Clairton, Pa., and a second center candidate is Joe Haag of King George, Va. 
Among the offensive linemen with promise are Mike Martin (Roseburg, Ore.) and Gary Kos (Minneapolis) at tackle, and Scott Hempel (Akron, Ohio) and Larry DiNardo (Howard Beach, N.Y.) at guards. Bob Cotter of Chicago is anpther possibility in the line. 
"Our best running back was Dennis Allan" said Moore, who also used Shea­han on offense at Pittsburgh. Moore lists Tim Kelly (Springfield, Ohio) and Ron Johnson (Seattle) as the top fullbacks, but Nick Hartzel of White Bear Lake, Minn., could play either fullback or tight end. He's 6-4 and 210. Bill Barz of the Chicago area is another solid performer. 
The end group was a good one, too, John Zilly, son of the ex-N.D. star and present Rhode Island U. head coach, is described as a good hardnosed football player. Neidert could also play the tight end spot, while the split ends were led by Craig Stark, who played earlier for Moore at St. Joseph's High in South Bend. Stark is 6-5 and has good speed. Tom Eaton of Lancaster, Ohio, is an­other good pass-catching prospect. 
JOE THEISMAN, 6-FOOTER who weighs only 165, was the top quarterback, but he had help from John Gardner, Colorado Springs, Colo. Theisman is from South River, N.J. Tim Sigrist of Altoona, Pa., and Chuck Nightingale of Val­paraiso were other quarterback prospects, but Nightingale suffered a broken hand early in the fall and couldn't pass. He and Sigrist are also defensive half­backs along with Charles Zloch of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the brother of ex-N.D. quarterback BiU Zloch (1965). 
Theisman is a sharp passenger, though his figures against Pitt were not impressive. He sets up quickly, something Uke Heisman trophy winner John Huarte, but he's not a side-armer. Gardner (6-2 and 185) is more the drop-back type. 
In the defensive line, you are apt to see Pat Mudron (Joliet, 111.) and Tony Falsetta (Mt. Pleasant, Mich.) give the present regulars some competition at tackle. Both are in the 250-pound class. And at defensive end, Tom Gasseling of Wapato, Wash., was a surprise. 
The varsity had better have a vacancy somewhere for the top player on the frosh squad, Tony Capers, a 6-foot-2, 250-pounder from Warren, Ohio. He'll play somewhere — defensive end, tackle, linebacker, or even on offense. "A real competitor," says Moore. 
Only other scholarship freshman was Ed Grenda, who suffered a neck injury in practice for the "Big 33" game in Pennsylvania. He missed the entire fall and can't play without a medical okay. 
Moore, incidentally, didn't make the trip to Miami with the other members of the staff. Like any freshman coach looking to the future, he scouted first 1968 foe Oklahoma instead. 
Dame 

In Norman, they still remember 1957 and 1966. With a year of ex­perience £ind success under their belts, the Sooners may be able to give the Irish something to remember. 
September 28—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Remember Leroy Keyes? The de­fense will never forget, and Notre Dame's revenge could be the robbery of a Heisman Trophy. 
October 5—Iowa at Iowa City 
The Hawks took a bad beating in 67, the worst in Ray Nagel's career. A host of returning lettermen with good memories speUs trouble for Notre Dame. 
October 12—Northwestern at Notre 
Dame 

Alex Agase would love to spring a surprise on old buddy Ara, but their only outstanding returnee is Chico Kurzowski. His specialty is the quick kick. 
October 19—Illinois at Notre Dame 
Another team with a lot of reveng­ing to do. The Ulini vsdll be young, but so was its next door neighbor Indiana this year. 
October 26—Michigan State at East Lansing 
ABC has televised three of the last four ND-MSU clashes, and the Spar­tans have yet to win. This one won't be on TV, though, and coupled with the home field advantage, the psy­chology will all be with State. 
November 2—Navy at Philadelphia 
Navy hasn't won this one since 1963, but they've been one of the most consistent clubs on the schedule. It may be time for Elias to work his first miracle for the Middies. 
November 9—Pitt at Notre Dame 
Another young team with a hunger for revenge. The Panther's strongest freshmen teaun in years should start paying dividends. 
November 16—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame 
The Irish caught Tech in one of its rare down years in 1967. The Yellow Jackets don't aim to let it happen again. 
November 30—Southern California at Los Angeles 
Sogge will be back. McKay will be back. O.J. will be back. So will 100,000 thousand fans who remember what kind of football Notre Dame plays when it has a goal to shoot for. In 65 it was revenge; in 66 it was the National Championship, This time it may be both. 
The Scholastic 


THE RECORD BOOK 
INDIVIDUAL SINGLE-GAME RECORDS 
MOST PASSES ATTEMPTED: 63 Terry Hanratty (Old-Record—37 by John Huarte, Stanford, 1964) 
MOST PASSES COMPLETED: 29 Terry Hanratty (Old Record—21 by John Huarte, Stanford, 1964, and Coley O'Brien, Southern Cal., 1966) 
MOST YARDS PASSING: 386 Terry Hanratty (Old Record—322 by George Izo, Pittsburgh, 1958) 
MOST RUSHING AND PASSING PLAYS: 75 Terry Hanratty (Old Record—44 by John Huarte, Stan­ford, 1964) 
MOST TOTAL YARDS OFFENSE: 420 Terry Hanratty (Old Record— 354 by Paul Hornung, Southern Cal., 1955) 
MOST PUNT RETURNS: 9 Tom Schoen against Pittsburgh (Old Record—8 by Chuck Jaskwhich against Kansas, 1932, and Bud Bonar against Army, 1933) 
MOST YARDS GAINED ON PUNT RETURNS: 167 Tom Schoen against Pittsburgh (Old Record— 121 by Nick Rassas against North­western, 1965) 

INDIVIDUAL SEASON RECORDS 

MOST TOUCHDOWNS SCORED BY A NOTRE DAME SOPHOMORE: 9 Jeff Zimmerman (Old Record—8 by Jim Seymour, 1966, and Neil Worden, 1951) 
MOST RUSHING AND PASSING PLAYS: 281 Terry Hanratty (Old Record — 250 by Bob Williams, 1950) 
MOST PUNT RETURNS: 42 Tom Schoen (Old Record—40 by Gene Edwards, 1925) 
MOST FIELD GOALS SCORED: 8 Joe Azzaro (Old Record—1 by Ken Ivan, 1965) 
MOST PASSES BROKEN UP: 11 Tom Schoen (Old Record—10 by Denny Phillips, 1963; Tony Carey, 1964; Dave Martin and Tom O'Leary, 1966) 
Dec. 8, 1967 

INDIVIDUAL CAREER RECORDS 
MOST TOUCHDOWNS ON PASS INTERCEPTIONS: 3 Tom Schoen (Old Record—2 by Elmer Lay den, 1922-24, and Jack Elder, 1927-29) 
MOST PASSES CAUGHT: 85 Jim Seymour (Old Record—71 by Joe Heap, 1951-54, and 70 by Jack Snow, 1962-64) 
MOST YARDS GAINED ON PASS RECEPTIONS: 1377 Jim Seymour (Old Record—1242 by Jack Snow, 1962-64) 
MOST YARDS GAINED ON PASS 
INTERCEPTIONS: 226 Tom Schoen (Old Record—220 by Nick Rassas, 1963-65) 
MOST FIELD GOALS SCORED: 13 Joe Azzaro (Old Record—^12 by Ken Ivan, 1963-65) 
MOST PASSES BROKEN UP: 19 Tom O'Leary (Old Record—16 by George Sefcik, 1959-61) 

TEAM SINGLE-GAME RECORDS 
MOST PASSES ATTEMPTED: 63 Purdue, 1967 (Old Record—44 Southern Methodist, 1951, and Stan­ford, 1964) 
MOST PASSES COMPLETED: 29 Purdue, 1967 (Old Record—23 Stan­ford, 1964) 
MOST YARDS GAINED PASSING: 366 Purdue, 1967 (Old Record— 322 Pittsburgh, 1958) 

TEAM SEASON RECORDS 

MOST PASS ATTEMPTS: 258 (Old Record—^237 attempts in 1950) 
MOST PASS COMPLETIONS: 131 (Old Record—120 completions in 1964, 1966) 
MOST RUSHING & PASSING PLAYS: 788 (Old Record —733 plays in 1951) 
MOST FIELD GOALS SCORED: 8 (Old Record—7 in 1965) MOST FIRST DOWNS BY PASSING: 91 (Old Record—90 in 1964) MOST TOTAL FIRST DOWNS: 223 (Old Record—215 in 1964) 

1967 FIRST-TEAM FOOTBALL ALL-AMERICANS 

JIM SEYMOUR (END)—New York Daily News, Football News. 
TOM SCHOEN (SAFETY) — New York Daily News, Football News, Football Writers Association of America, Football Coaches Associa­tion of America. 
KEVIN HARDY (TACKLE)—New York Daily News, Football News. 
With the 36-3 win over Georgia Tech, Notre Dame became the sixth football team in history to win 500 games. The Irish continue to rank first in percentage of games won. 
The top ten: seasons games W-L-T % 1. Yale 95 846 619-177-50 .761 2. Princeton 98 797 588-166-43 .765 3. Pennsylvania 91 898 567-293-38 .653 4. Harvard 94 826 566-217-43 .711 5. Michigan 88 715 502-184-30 .722 6. Notre Dame 79 675 501-138-36 .769 7. Texas 75 693 480-186-27 .712 8. Army 77 681 465-173-43 .714 9. Dartmouth 86 712 452-223-37 .661 0. Alabama 73 659 449-170-40 .712 
*Does not include Cotton Bowl game vs. Texas A&M. Records courtesy of Steve Boda, Spencer Advertising, New York. 
39 


WHY DID /ETNA SPEND ALMOST ONE MILLION 
DOLURS LAST YEAR 


IN SUPPORT OF HIGHWAY SAFETY? 
It makes sense to reduce auto accidents. Everybody benefits. Fewer mishaps mean fewer claims. And fewer claims help lower automobile insurance rates. 
More important, it's good cor­porate citizenship, .^tna Life & Casualty is a leader in the business. And we think it's up to us to act like it. 

We've made an honest effort over the years: 
/Etna became one of the thir­teen founders of the National Safety Council in 1913. 
Later we helped organize the Insurance Institute for High­way Safety. 
And we were the first to design a device to test driver reaction time. 
Each year /Etna engineering services help the drivers of thousands of trucks, buses and other commercial vehicles improve their safety records. 
Today, one out of every seven high school students in the country who complete a driver education course are being trained on the first successful classroom driving simulator — the >€tna Drivotrainer System. 
Our business may be selling insurance. 
But our concern is people. 
LIFE&CASUALTV 

Our concent is people 
The Scholastic 

Doyoubuy 
a^iirt 
or a label? 
If all you want is a blue button-down assures you all And available in solids and oxford button-down, you just that. Also that it's "Cum stripes. For $7.00. buy a shirt. But if you want Laude" Decton® Oxford. If you're after a blue the shirt to last, with every Tapered. And Perma-lron, button-down, look at more roll, pleat and taper in the which means it won't wrinkle. than the color. The label right place, and lots of other Labeled "Sanforized-PIus." tells you most about the 
colors to look at and rhnn«;fi chirt AnH tho nno thaf folic from, check the U 11. ouit th I thT The label on this blue ur name n it Arrow 
iSotte Bame Cfjrisitmasi Carbs; Mtai Cfirisitmasi #ifte: J^otre Bame ^eal Jfetoelrp Hbatlable at J^otre Bame poofesitote 
Dec. 8, 1967 
1967 FINAL STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS  PASS RECEIVING  PUNTING  
TEAM  STATISTICS  ND  OPP.  Player  No.  Yds  Avg.  TD  LG  Player  NO.  YARDS  AVG.  LP  
TOTAL  OFFENSE  3911  2201  Seymour  37  515  13.9  4  48  Bleier  23  759  33.0  45  
Total Plays  788  703  Gladieux  23  297  12.9  2  38  Hardy  ....  20  640  32.0  54  
Avg. Gain per Play  5.0  3.1  Bleier  16  171  10.7  2  22  Gladieux  3  98  32.7  45  
Avg. Gain per Game  391  220  Harshman  10  85  8.5  0  20  Torrado  3  89  27.7  39  
NET RUSHING  YARDS  2170  1043  Snow  9  157  17.4  1  27  
Rushing Plays  530  397  Winegardner  9  127  14.1  0  17  
Avg. per Rush  4.1  2.6  Kunz  7  •  101  14.4  0  41  
Avg. per Game —,  217  104  Zimmerman  6  102  17.0  1  39  
NET PASSING YARDS  1741  1158  Criniti  3  32  10.7  0  24  
Passes Att.-Comp. Completion Percentage  258-131 .508  306-102 .333  DushneyN. Furlong  3 2  32 66  10.7 33.0  0 0  13 47  SCORING  
Had  Intercepted  17  19  Haley  2  34  17.0  0  24  Player  TD  PAT  FG  TP  
Touchdown Passes  10  4  Lawson  2  11  5.5  0  8  Heaton  .  0  2-2  0  2  
Avg. Gain per Attempt  6.7  3.8  Ziegler  1  13  13.0  0  13  Azzaro  0  40-37  10-8  61  
Avg. Gain per Completion  13.3  11.4  Hanratty  1  —2  0  Zimmerman  .  9  0  0  54  
Avg. per Game PASSES INTERCEPTED  174 19  116 17  131  1741  13.3  10  48  Bleier Gladieux  -.  7 7  0 0  0 0  42 42  
Yards Returned  297  317  Hanratty  .  7  0  0  49  
KICKOFF RET. YARDS  413  940  FUMBLES  RECOVERED — O'Leary  2;  Martin,  Seymour  .  4  0  0  24  
Kickoff Ret.—Avg.  21-19.7  56-16.8  McGill,  Olson,  Pergine,  Schoen,  Schumacher  1.  Dushney  29  0  0  12  
PUNT RET. YARDS  520  194  Schoen  9  0  0  1?  
Punt  Rets.—Avg.  45-11.6  25-7.8  O'Brien  .  1  1 rush  0  8  
YARDS PUNTING  1586  2688  PASSING  Haley  1  0  0  6  
Punts—^Avg. PENALTIES—YARDS FUMBLES—BALL LOST FIRST DOWNS Rushing Passing Penalties .-TOTAL POINTS SCORED  49-32.4 32-299 29-15 223 121 91 11 337  79-34.0 48-386 23-8 126 58 59 9 124  Player Hanratty O'Brien Belden Gladieux Dushney  - Att. 206 41 9 1 1 258  Comp. Int. 110 15 16 2 5 0 0 0 0 0 131 17  Yds 1439 220 82 0 0 1741  TD 9 1 0 0 0 10  Pet. .534 .390 .556 .000 .000 .508  LG 48 47 24 .... .... 48  Harshman Landolfi T. Quinn Snow Ziegler N. Furlong  .....  1 1 1 1 1 0 45 0 0 0 0 0 2 pass 42-39  0 0 0 0 0 0 10-8 6 6 6 6 6 9 337  
TOUCHDOAVNS  ,  45  17  
Rushing  32  12  
Passing  10  4  PUNT RETURNS  
Others  3  1  Player  Punts  KickofTs  Inter­ 
FIELD GOALS  10-8  7-3  ceptions  
PAT—KICK  42-39  9-7  No-Yds-TD  No-Yds-TD  No-Yds-TD  DEFENSIVE STATISTICS  
PAT—PASS PAT—RUSHRaycr Zimmerman Gladicux Bleier  „.  RUSHING TC Yds . 133 591 . 84 384 77 357  2-1 1-1 Avg. 4.4 4.6 4.4  TD 8 5 5  7-2 1-1 LG 47 28 39  Schoen T. Quinn Bleier Haley Ziegler Dushney Gladieux Criniti Harshman  .....„..  42-447-1 3-73-1 9-201-0 5-119-0 1-22-0 1-20-0 1-19-0 1-17-0 1-15-0  4-108-1 1­0-0  TACKLES MADE —Olson 98; McGili 93; Per gine 89; Martin 71; Schoen 52; Lauck 50; Norri 47 McCoy 43; Smithberger 41; O'Leary 37; Hardy 33 Kuechenberg 32; Quinn 26; Jockisch 24; Lavin 21 Freebery 18; Burgencr, Schumacher, Stengcr 8 Reid, E. Vuillemin 7; T. Furlong, Rassas 4; Glad ieux, Merlitti, Wisne 3; Azzaro, Haley, Heneghan 2 Brennan, Donohue, Kiliany, Reilly, Snow, Zeigler 1.  
Dushney .. Hanratty O'Brien _ Criniti Harshman  45 75 34 24 23  229 183 123 90 85  5.1 2.4 3.6 3.8 3.7  2 7 1 0 1  20 37 16 16 14  Kuechenberg Poskon Pergine Martin O'Leary  1­1­ 0-0 0-0  4-19-0 3-31-0 2-105-0  TACKLES FOR LOSS—Kuechenberg 10; McGill 9; Pergine 7; Lauck, Martin, Olson 6; Norri, O'Leary 3; Jockisch, McCoy, Stenger, E. Vuillemin 2; Free­bery, Smithberger 1.  
Haley  13  54  4.2  1  23  Smithberger  2-29-0  
Ziegler  11  36  3.3  1  11  McCoy  1­ 3-0  PASSES  BROKEN  UP —Schoen  11; O'Leary  8;  
Belden  10  30  3.0  0  13  Kiliany  1­ 2-0  Smithberger  7;  Olson  5;  Kuechenberg,  Pergine,  
Landolfi  ..  1  8  8.0  1  8  Hardy  1­ 0-0  T.  Quinn 4; Martin,  McGill  3; Hardy, McCoy  2;  
Norri, Reid, Stenger, E. Vuillemin  1.  
- 530  2170  4.1  32  47  45-520-2  21-413-0  19-297-1  

Give me whatI want 
I want that beautiful slim-handled shaver with all those darling little attachments. 1 want a manicure and a facial. I want to stimulate my scalp and soothe my muscles. 1 want to be beautiful for you, you fool. Give me what I want. Give me the Noreico Beauty Sachet. 
m 

The new Noreko Beauty Sachet a shaver plus (Or, give me the new 
Noreico Classic Beauty Shaver. It comes in a tail, gorgeous package. 
^ Good Housekeeping'^ Just like me.) 
•%. ciuiuiniB J ? 
Noreic ® 

©1967 North American Philips Company, Inc., 100 East 42nd Street, New York, N.Y. 10017 
y7.n />/> 
/.-^ 
t<L^;L, •-\ /yiy.^yc 

CONGRATULATIONS! 
c 

CONGRATULATIONS! 
CONGRATULATIONS! 
to the team... the coaches... the men of Notre Dame! 
froin the stajf and management of your Camjjus Shof) 
jini Brecn [im Dill Clas Dzikowski Bob Fox-Hilton Graiiips, Mgr. 
iampu^^hop^ 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 







