

F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'.J E lV 0 [1, 1921 
·Contents 
The Varsity Squad The Schedule Coach Rockne Assistant Coach Halas Captain "Eddie" Anderson Review of the Games Varsity Gridiron men of 1921 The Reserves The Varsity in action 
· The Frosh Gridders Head Coach Holton Assistant Coach Hodler 
Interhall Football Brownson Interhall Champs The Cheer-Leaders 
Ideals 
The 1920 Chmi1ps Captains 1921-22 The Team and its fighting sp1nt Notre Dame on the gridiron 
Press Comment . The men we may thank J...awrance "Buck" Shaw 
Homecoming Student Manager Cheer· King Slaggert George Gipp .\Vest Point Our first Homecoming Stars of Yesterday Notre Dame's many victories­Between Halves Gridiron Geneaology 
-.. 
~ 
I. 
I I 
i 
F 0 0 T B-A L·L 1~ E l'1 E lV U 11' l!J41 

I 
. 
_I 


[? 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE 11' 0 F 1921 



F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E 1' 1 E lV 0 F 1921 



A Record ThatSpeaks for Itself 
THE SCHEDULE 
Septerp.ber 24 · 
Notre Dame 58 Kalam·azoo 0 October 1 Notre Dame 57 Depauw 10 October 8 · Iowa· 10 Notre· Dame . 7 October 15 
Notre Dame 33 Purdue 0 · i October 22 
'! 
.! 
:! Notre Dame 7 Nebraska 0 
October 29 Notre Dame 28 Indiana 7 November 5 Notre Dame 28 Army 0 November 8 Notre Dame 48 Rutgers 0 ·November :12 
Notre Dame 42 Haskell 7 . I 'November 19 . !: Notre Dame 21 Marquette 7 
November 24. Notre Dame 48 lVlichigan Aggies 0 
1919 SCHEOULE 1920 SCHEDULE 
N.D. N. D; 
-14 Kalama~oo · 0 39 Kalamazoo 0 60 Mount. Union -0 41 Western State 0 14 Nebraska. 9 16 Nebraska 7 53 Western State ·g 28 Valparaiso '3 16 Indiana "U" · 3 ·27 Army 17 
r 
[i 12 West Point 9 28 Purdue 0 13 Michigan Aggies 0 13 Indiana 10 33 Purdue 6 33 Northwestern· '7 
III. ,-.-25 Michigan J\ggies 0· 
229 49.
11 
I! 
250 44
I'
I' 
!I 
I 
l· 
I! 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
r 
I 
i 
i ! 
I 1 
f.­
.. 
~ 
I 
I 
I i 
t· 
i. 
I 
l 
l 
\ 
I 
r 
I
k.: 


F 0 0 T 13 A·L L REF IE H' 0 F 1921 
; 

7 
\\'ALTER HALAS 

ASSISTANT 
For two years \Valter Halas has done much to help "Rock" develop championshijJ football teams at Notre Dame. He came here from Dav­enport in 1920 to coach basketb3ll and baseball, but his experience with football has made him a valuable assistant to Rockne. He knows the game ·from goal to goal, has tl~e ability of show­ing p_layers how a thing ought to be done, and has no trouble deciphering strange plays..This la!:t .was put to good use when Mr. Halas made trips into enemy camps. When he returned and compared notes with Barry Holton, it was not 
COACH 
long until the Freshman team was making the Varsity battle for. every inch in scrimmage prac­. Lice. Last spring Mr. Halas could not devote much time to helping along the Spring practice, as he was a very busy man developing a baseball team. At present he may be found in the gym every afternoon picking material for a basketball team which he claims is going to be the best. ever atNotre Dame. In all forms of sport, Mr. Halas is an e·nthusiastic coach; his enthusiasm 
· is of the contagious kind, and that is why he can train successful teams. . 

THIS IS HOW THEY DID IT 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E l' IE 1¥ 0 F 1921 

As leader of the great team of 1921, Captain 
"Eddie" Anderson has earned every conceivable word of eulogy; he was the ideal leader-a real Notre Dame man in every sense of the -\vord. Possessed of tact, good sense and an inspiring spirit, Anderson led his mates through a season the results of which have set the football world agog with wonder~ That "Eddie" had a big job · on his himds when. he was elected to . the cap­taincy· goes without s~1ying for the records of those marvelous machines of 1912, '13, '19 and 
'20 were practically insurmountable. Despite the high precedent set by former leaders and their crews, Anderson displayed a brand of gridiron generalship that earned for him laudatory com­ment by the column from the pens of critics far and wide; a generalship that made him unani­mous choice for the All-State, All~Western ·and All-America honors-that placed him high in the esteem of the coaches, the faculty, the almm1i nnd the student body. 
l 

I l' 
I 
4 
i 
I 
I 
I. I I 
I 
~1~,. 


F 0 0 T B A I_J L R E l' IE rv 0 F 1921 
cA. Review of the ~ames 
WHAT THE MEN DID IN THE OPENER· 
NoTRE DAME 58;KALAMAzoo 0 
The valiant sons of Kalamazoo were the first visitors on the Notre Dame gridiron this fall and altho they put up a little fight the first part of the -game, it soon became the question as how high the score would be run. However, the smaller eleven fought a wonderful battle against· great odds and· tho outclassed in e~e:ry_ department, they managed to throw a scare mto Rockne's camp every now and then. · 
None of Notre Dame's strength could he shown in this game for on the most part the playing was extremely raggec~ b~t the~e '~ere many bricrht stars who shown for the first time
0 
in varsity competition. Among these were Lieb, Berrrman and Thomas. Numerous substitutions afTe~ted the score and the playing and if the big team were left in to finish the game, a different tale would be told. Touchdowns were made by \Vynne (2), Thomas (2), lVIohardt (2), Desch ·and Reass. Buck Shaw did his duty by kicking 7 rroals after touchdown· and Lieb complemented
0 . 
hy l. 
·-THE DEPAUW AFFAIR 

NoTRE DAME 57; DEfAUW 10 
_. When thi~ "1\tlystery eleven" came to Notre Dame, there certainly was quite a stir, for every­one knew that Walker was· out to beat Rockne and said Rockne was not to be beaten. Conse­quent! y the evening_ practices were more numer­ous and constant drilling put Notre Dame on the fighting edge. Then the information that they _were pointing for this game added zest to the occasion and those who saw the game had noth­
ing  but  pity for  the  highly  touted  ":Mystery  
eleven"  which  went  down  to  defeat  after  five  
minutes of playing.  

Their playing was of a very inferior brand 
and their plays showed more haste in prepara.­
tion than quality. After Notre Dame accumu­
lated a few touchdowns, Depauw assumed a. 
laissez faire attitude and never. actually threat­
ened the game. However, they corraled a touch­
down in the final quarter when Lauer made a 
pretty run after a blocked kick. Bloodgood 
made a field goal. also in this period from the 
t13 yard line. · 
· Shaw played his usually·con~ervative brilliant rrame and Hector Garvey at tackle and Castner ~t fullback did their share of good playing. Wynne and Mohardt each got 2 touchdowns and Desch, Thomas,· Kiley and Seifrit each annexed one. 

J? 0 0 T B A L L R .E l' I li HT 0 J? 1921 THE HAWKEYE ENCOUNTER 
IowA 10; NoTnE DAME 7 
In years to cqn:ie, when dopesters will gather and relate experiences, there will be in the minds of the -football enthusiasts, the fall of
I Notre Dame to Iowa. Thruout the entire game 
T 
the big Blue team had the best of the contest and were it not for the psychological ':bre:tks"I of the game, the score would have been a dif­i ferent story. 
_Notre Dame's superiority was unquestioned and the mere fact that Iowa b)r sheer luck ob­I tained three more points than did· the better team, does not show even in tl.1e remotest instanceI that this scant mRrgin would determine Iowa
i 
the conqueror. On the contrary, Notre Dame
l 
completely outclassed, outplayed and· outfought Jow~ making 21 first downs to Iowa's 13, com­pleted 15 out of 21 passes against 1 completed by Iowa. Then, too, Notre Dame made 398 yards _from line of scrimmage and Iowa was second best with 24.5 yards. Facts such as these cannot be scoffed as immaterial for they are essentially thoEe which win g<imes. 
However, Notre Dame and her score of stars who fought valiantly against luck h~ve no alibis to offer except th.at they were beaten; .but they· do reserve the right ·to kno'y that they were the better te:~m. Kiley made the lone touchdown and Buck Shaw did his usual bit. lVIohardt, Kiley, ·coughlin were the shining Hghts of the contest. 
t THE PURDUE MEETING
I 
NoTRE DAi\IE 33; PuRDUE 0 After the defeat by Io\\'a, the Boilermakers
t' 
loomed as possible formidable opponents of the 
Iri~h. Instead of going into the "dumps," theyI re::ponded with their traditional fight and taught 
Purdue a never-to-be-forgotten lesson that a 
Learn. may be down but never ·out. Rarely was a 
I 
better brand of football ever showri on a foreign 
gridiron and never· a team ever came back as 
Notre Dame did after that setback. 
~ 
Paul Castner, the south-paw dropkicker was · a marvel in this contest making 2 field goals. The first came in the initial few minutes of play and the eaf:e and dispatch with which he did it took some of the pep out· of the Boilermakers. Phelan substitute fullback. was alion on offense and the work of Mohardt, Coughlin, and Wynne in the back field and Shaw, Garvev nnd Larson in the lirie featured e''ery play. · 
I· 
INDIANA 
NoTRE DAME 28; INDIANA 7 
Playing on a sodden field and altogether un­suitable conditions, the Irish next met the Crim­wn at Indianapolis. Fi-iday night the rain fell continually rnd converted the already sunken \Vashington Park to a sea of mud and when the te:tms took the field at 2:30, the primary ques­tion was which team would get their uniforms dirty first. 
The first quarter was merely in sounding out 
I 
l each team. Open play was a thing impossible 
! and kicking w2s the method ·resorted to. By this 
i time the Ijlayers were unrecognizable and manyI humorous incidents occurred. In the second 
l 
l l 
I I ! 
I 
i I 
I 
L 
quarter Rockne ·took out his '~shock backfield" and replaced them with the first· string. Long plunges by Wynne and end runs by l\llohardt, Coughlin and Castner placed the ball within the shadow of the goal rnd Coughlin hit off tackle for the touchdown. In this period Indiana came back strong and Kyle went over for the nece~sary six points and Leonard kicked goal. 
The second half was another story and Notre Dame came back 'vith a vengeence and before the final whistle blew, the score was swelled by touchdo"'ns by Wynne, Eddie An~lerson and Coughlin. Buck Shaw also did his allotted work ~nd kicked cl go::ds. after. touchdown~ 

--~-~ 

F' 0 0 T B A L L 1{/E l' IE H' · 0 F' 1921­
HOMECOMING· 
NoTRE DAaiE 7; NEBRASKA 0 
Before a crowd of over 20,000 admirers, Notre Dame defeated the heavy Cornhuskers in the most bitterly fought contest ever played on Cartier field. The strength of the Nebraska learn lay in her defensive qualities and during the opening periods, the Rockers were unable to penetrate the forward line of the Maroon. 
How~ver, in the second quarter after continual pounding, Notre Dame took apvantage of a poor kick by Lewellen and Moluirdt took the ball over ·· for a touchdown giving the local team the edge which Nebraska never surmounted. After this Nebraska tightened and Notre Dame was kept at a safe distance from the goal. 
Captain Swanson was an individual star-for the Maroon while l\'lohardt, \Vynne, Castner and Danny. Coughlin performed brilliantly for Notre Dame. In the line Garvey and Shaw threw the giarits for substantial losses. Eddie Anderson and Hunk Anderson w~re everywhere, · breaking up passes and. bothering the running attacks~ 'The second half was a de:.1dlock, but the cl.osc~Icss of play did not affect anyone's ·• 
. interest. In the fourth period, Nebraska threatened with a pass attack but it was ~horl lived and it died practically as soon as it was· inaugurated. The old grads who came back marveled at the latent strength of the Rockc~s and openly confessed it to be the be~t team which ever wore the blue and golcL 
THE CADETS 
·. NaTHE DAJ\JE 23; AnMY 0 
In the finest exhibition of football ever shown
. }~ . 
in the east, Notre Dame met and defeated the Army eleven after the latter was conceded to win by the majority of the critics. However, it only goes to show that critics arc· often wrong and 

·.tha~ the eastern brand of football is not superior to the ";est. 
·The ~ay was idcrrl for football and as the teams took the field the stands gave vent to a tremendous cheer which threatened the historic walls of Fort Putnam. The first of the game was given to a punting duel and had no material effect as to the score. However, in the second period after a brief exchange of punts, the ball was in the Army's territory and a 35 yard pass to Kiley from Mohardt was good for the initial marker~ Injuries were '~cakcning the Army team and'aftcr a few minutes, Mohardt passed to \Vynnc and <mother touchdown. 
In the second half,. Kiley again came into the spotlight when he again. caught a prelly ·pass and trotted for the third touehdo\vn. Mohardt broke away with his· sensational runs for long gains and one of these resulted in the garnering of the remaining Lally. Buck Shaw repeated and his every allcmpl was perfcct. · 

THE SHIFT 
F·O 0 T B A L L R E l' IE 1~' 0 F 1921 · RUTGERS FROLIC 
. NoTnE DAME 4·8; RuTGERS 0 \Vhen invac1ing the east, Notre Dame believed in doing things up brown and when they met Rutgers on election day at the Polo Grounds, they. realized a triumph for· which· they had hoped. The game was played uncl2r ideal weather conditions and with the bright green turf and crisp air, the boys lost no Lime in gelling under way, for in the first two minutes of play: Paul Castner th~ Northland star, together with incomparable interference, broke away on a long run for a touchdown. This did not in any way break clown the spirit of the :Maroon and despite ~rent oclch, they fought all the game; fought in more ways than one. 
One thi.ng which could be said of Rutgers and 
that is she took all that Notre Dame gave and 
then looked for more and tho· the score may 
imply an easy game, the fact remains that it 
was anything but that. Desch was another star 
of the contest and a ltlio. he was in on I y. a short 
time, he made three long runs which aggregated 
over 125 yards--:-a notable · accomplishment.. 
Castner added. six points by· kicking field goals Jrom the 45 and 43 yard lines respectively. Runs by Wynne, Coughlin and lVlohardt also featured. Buck Shaw, .Garvey and Hunk Ander­E"On gave impressions as to the stuff Notre :Oame 
·"\\'as made of. · 
THE INl)IANS 
NoTnE DAME 4·2; HASKE.LL INDIANS 7 .. 
In a game replete with freak plays and num~r7 
ous substitutions on both sides, the Reclmen 
went down to defeat before a. crowd of ardent 
sport lovers for only Jhey would attemiJt lo stay 
thruout the game in the drizzling rain. 
Replacements· caused Notre Dame to lose some of its strength and clue to the fact that the second ·string played most of the game,_ the score was kept lower than was anticipated. In ·the ~econd half the Indians ·opened up with a . dazzling attack of freak passes and running plays which almost bewildered the new men. However, 'they did not possess_ ~he pu_nch as did 
the Rockers and their offensive could be com­pared with the yelping of ·a little poodle clog at a St. Bernard. They collected their lone touch­down in the closing period when Wofford ran 20 yards on a fake cross-buck. · Kewpie Brown, 
· the diminutive guard from Youngstown played his first full game at guard and surprised his most ardent· admirers. Bill Voss notwithstand­ing injuries !?UStained earlier in th_e season played good and consistent ball and bids fair to shine next fall. In the .last quarter the first ~tring was mustered in and numerous runs py 1\'Johardt, \Vynn~ and Castner continually 'brought. the crowds to their feet. 

F 0 0 T BALL R E 1' J·E HT 0 F 1921 FISTICUFFS WITH. MARQUETTE 
NOTRE DAME 21; MARQUETTE" 7 
Notre Dame defeated Marquette in a close game on a repulsive day and an equally repul­sive field. It was a battle of Irish vs. Irish and .the fur. sure did fly from the moment they first hit the shavings until they left the field looking like wooden soldiers. 
lVIarquette showed surprising strength both on the offensive and defensive. In the· first quarter after a poor kick, Marquette took advantage of the break. and on steady line plunges took the hall to N. D.'s 5 yard line and Taugher hurled himself over the NDers line. Pandemonium 

THANKSGIVING 
·NpTRE DAME 48; MICHIGAN AGGIES 0 
Th~ Turkey Annual held in itself gre1t signif­icance·_ this year, for it marks the pa~sing of 13 of the squad. Never before has this fact pre­sent~d itself .more forcibly and no greater ova­tion was ever given the retiring Ro·ckers as· they left the field :of honor for the last time. 
/
. . 
The game was not extraordinary itself but Rockne .instnicted his generals to play everything in the repertoire and they did to the utmost sat­isfaction of the crowd. Those plays which were · kepf secret thruout the season, those same plays which beat .the Army were shown before the public gaze and the South Bend admirers gave reigned supreme in the . Marquette stand for they had scored on the conquerors of West Point and Rutgers. Their triumph was short liv~d -for Notre Dame took life as they always do in like circumstances and Johnny Mohardt ran 4B yards for a touchdown. Shortly after a short pass to Eddie Anderson netted another. The final score came in the last period when the in­comparable Wynne went thru center for the re­maining marker. Shaw complemented as usual. Mohardt was supreme in this game and aided by . Wynne and Castner, who interfered perfectly, he repeated his past performances. 
vent to their enthusiasm on their perfect execu­
tion. 
Touchdowns by Wynne, Mohardt, Castner, . Bergman and Mehre, the latter intercepti~1g a ·forward pass and running 46 yards mounted the · score. Many of the second string men were 
given experience in the latter part of the game 
and their playing was indeed gratifying with the 
dark outlook ahead. ' . 
·Thus ended a most successful season and not­
withstanding the· Iowa defeat; every Notre Oame 
man can gaze with pride upon the accompli~h­
menl of this Wonder Team 'vhich met and de­
feated three strong teams within the short space 
of a week. 
F 0 0 T B A L L .-R E 1' IE H' 0 F 1921 
DarsitlJ (3ridiron ffien of l 92l 

·cAPTAIN EDDIE ANDERSON 
Just Eddie we call him but others think dif­ferently and ·caption hipt "The Hoosier Wizard" and "All American." When the team invaded the east this fall, the press took up his name and blazoned it all along Broadway. Hugie Fullerton says he is in a class by himself and Wallie Camp has given him honorable mention in his list of season's stars. 
To Eddie falls the honor that many would aspire for. On that memorable occasion last year when the monogram men of that great eleven met and declared him captain of still a 
_greater eleven,  many wete  skeptical as to his  
success for Eddie was still in his 'teens.  But his  
youth  proved  his  greatness and  the  sceptics  

threw up their hands and resigned their fate to the _gibes of the, "I told you ;;o's." 

LAWRENCE SHAW 
,·,If Buck is not All American, 'then there is no All American." This phrase is on the lips of all who have seen him in action this fall, for the silent working tackle is the best turned out of this university in many a year. This matinee idol also captioned the Perfect Man is an in­tegral factor in every play and woe begone the end who faces him when his beauty mask is dropped. At all times Buck is that modest un­assuming chap, never looking for trouble but welcoming it nevertheless when it arrives. On the gridiron, Buck does that which all players aspire to__:_namely, to be on the bottom of every play without appearing too much in the lime­light. This is his last year and he leaves to all Notre Dame posterity, a reputation founded on 
modesty, integrity and perseverance. 
ROGER KILEY . 
Rodge hails from Chicago, but he is not a bandit ·except for his ever grabbing·-forward . passes from the ozone. .Together · 'vith his running mate Eddie Anderson; is ·formed ~he greatest .pair of ends in the country. When Rodge reached out_ and caught a pass and· made ·a touchdown against th~_~Ariny this fall, Jack Viock, who · was· watching . him all seiison acclaimed him · the best. His features are familiar to ~he entire country .for his picttire luis 
_been published in al~. the papers. . · : He is one .of our best bids for an All Ameri­can berth this fall and it is; altogether probable for he has been mentioned by a majority of the authorities on football, including Walter Camp. 


5 bl:j L ltl --ME 
FOOTBALL IrE1TJE-HT OF 1921 

HARTLEY ANDERSON 
"I'll do the best we can," is the famous e~­pression attributed to an equally famous warrior from Notre Dame. Hunk is about the hardest man on the team this fall for his 170 pounds of hard muscle is that of the highest-tension variety and nothing short of a pile driver. could put Hunk out of the game. A football game to him is the most serious thing in his life and to see him play would justify this fa~t. ' 
Hunk leaves Notre Dame in June after four years of wonderful playing on the gridiron, despite the fact that he did not receive the notice which was justly due him from the press. 
CHESTER WYNNE 
This rangy timber-topper was a convert to football. Chetter wanted to play but Coach Rockne thought it would impair his track ability but· after much pleading' Rock consented. This was a happy choice by Rockne for \Vynne has developed in leaps and 'bounds to the top of the list. Charles Brickley after seeing Wynne per­form at the Army and Rutgers acclaimed him the peer of all fullbacks in the country. This is not an idle claim for he is not alone in his conten­tion, for many writers of national fame have compared him with Mahan, Eichenlaub and Ted Coy. 
JOHN lVIOHARDT 

Johnny Mohardt, the All American, is all that can be said of him and even more than that. This fleet-footed player" from the Iron City is . 
· a double threat man who can either pass with deadly accuracy or skirt the ends with .such re­markable grace and ease as only a Thorpe or Gipp could do. 
Moh!Jrdt, as a New York paper puts it, is "one of those elusive backs who combines the diver­gent qualities of a player of prominence, namely his aptitude to adjust himself to any style of play whether it be individual or team play." Individually his playing is of a brilliant non-erratic character; in team play he com·di­nates beautifully with his team-mates. He is perhaps n?ted best for his consistency and few backs can reach the quality of perfection which he has set. 
DONALD GRANT 
No one would know who we meant if ,·ve called him that, so we will use the old familiar Chet, our veteran extra·ordinary. Beginning here as a freshman in 1916, Chet learned the Notre Dame system under Harper. He played varsity in 1917 and went away to conquer the Germans the following year. Last year Chet returned a 
"I veteran in two senses and took up the work
! 
where he left off, playing with the same old abandon which distinguished him in 1917. He again repeated this year and filled into the steps of Joe Brandy. 


,,., 3? • t
tt J ;


F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'IE H' 0 F 1921 
c:. 
DANIEL COUGHLIN 
Danny is one of those stars after whom, hard luck delights to follow. In the first part of the season was a veritable whirlwind and as a whirl­wind· he gathered momentum the farther he traveled. Then what we expected came and Danny was injured in the Nebraska game. It was his leg again. However, this did n~t stop him and again he started for the top. He reached it again at the Rutgers game and hard luck again entered and Danny was carried off the field never to don the uniform this season. · 
Coughlin is perhaps the best open field runner on the squad and extremely hard to down. Quick 
. a~ the start, a sudden stop-a side step to the right, a sharp pivot and then off for 50 yards and a touchdown-that is Danny. 
PAUL CASTNER 
This rangy south-paw kicker is another prod­uct of the north country where football and hockey is considered a religio-n. When Paul · gets hack on a kick formation, he is a triple threat man for he is a hard runner, can drop­kick or punt with equal ease and dispatch or still he can break up the morale of the opposi­tion by passing from the left side of the li9e. 
Paul is captain of the varsity hockey Learn this winter and considered one of the best forwards on the ice today. We could write for hours on his achievements on the gridiron, but what is · the use-we all know Paul. 


FRED LARSON 
Ojay, as he is better known is a comparative 
youngster in the coterie of stars~ His work for 
the past two seasons as regular center· on the 
varsity has placed him on a par with the best 
in the country and when next fall rolls around, 
Ojay will certainly rank as the best. 
With his townsman Hunk Anderson, they form the· bulwark of the fonvard line and either offensively or defensive! y, they are veritable ·tigers. Neither are of Celtic origin but as Rockne puts it, "they are Irish by invironment." 
ARTHUR A. GARVEY 
Sun~amed Hector and the Beast, Garvey is all of that. Some witty senior told a freshman that Hector lived in Mammoth Cave and con­sumed a carcass of beef for one meal. This the freshman believed and no wonder. Hec i.; one of the biggest men on the football gridiron today and as fast as many backs 
In all the games this fall, Garvey has ma~le an enviable reputation as a fighter and a gnme one, too. From the Nebraska game he has played \'iith a broken bone in his left hand. Such a display of grit creates in one the impression that he is superhuman m~d will never say die until the final whistle· blows. 



I 
! 
! 
·j 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'IE H' 0 F 1921 
l 
I 
I
HARRY MEHRE I. This valiant knight of the gridiron was l Larson's running mate this year at center and I i 
I
little there is to chose· between the two. Both are seasoned veterans and both are gr~duates 
j
from the school of fight. Harry played varsity first in 1919 when he alternated with Trafton 
I
and Macligan and the last two years whh :; Lars011. He is a heavy, good-natured chap w:•h ! an everlasting grin on his countenance, always I 
I
looking for the less serious side of ~ituations I and bearing his misfortunes with a c'est Ia 
t Guerre attitude. If you are ever looking for Harry, just look for the-man with the continual i f · smile. · 
I 
ROBERT PHELAN 
l
Bob Phelan, the· huge silent working fullback ! is an admirable example of the Rockne system. I I Exceptionally fleet of foot and quick of mind .1 i he upsets the elope that ~l big man cannot he i 
i
f<1St both in mind and body at the sam~ time. On offense Bob picks his holes with accuracy <•nd then plunges thru with an initial velocity f of 190 pounds and the momentum of a thousand l:or~epower shaking off would-he tacklers and I
f 
leaves a group of dazed players in hi.5 wake. \ 
When the whistlf" called the ·close nf the l\Jichigan Aggie-Notre Dame game~ it signified· I the passing of Phelan from the nmks of Notre i De1me football but his name will forever live 
i
as an example of the Fighting Irish grit and determination. .. ,4· I : EARL WALSH 
"The hardest hitting half-hack· o~ the. squad': _is the phrase attributed to Nails Walsh. For the past thre'e years, he has been an important factor in. the Gold and Blue's success thru his defensive 
ability. Breaking up forward pass .plays seems to be a second nature to Nails and the end or half-back must be wary. to the nth degree. to get him and complete a forward. , 
This is Walsh's last year with the varsity and his absence will be keenly felt when Hockne issues his call for candidates. next year. 
·. EDWARD DEGREE 
One hundred per cent, all wool and a yard wide is a pretty fair description of Eddie. De Gree. Coming to Notre Dame in the fall of 
I 1919 after playing with the Harvard Radio t School during the past fracas, he followed in the footsteps of his famous brother and made I an excellent name for himself on the freshman 
~ 
f 
eleven that year. Due to his trusty toe and remarkable aggressive qualities, he soon estab­lished himself as understudy of· :Morrie Smith. This year he has been altering at guard with Jim I Dooley. His kicking is perhaps his best asset for· on many occasions he has lifted the spheroid over 80 yards. I 
·II 
I 
I 
I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE 1~1 0 F 1921 
FRANK THOMAS Tom~y is anything except a quarterback as far as looks are concerned but when one sees him in action, "the wonder grew, how one small head could carry all he. knew." Tommy is riot fat~pleasingly plump if you will-but his plumpness does not detract a particle from his ability to instill spirit and fight in a team. On the contrary, he is cool-headed, fast and a quick thinker. His ability to judge punts is uncanny and strange to say notwithstanding his weight, he is fast in getting away with them. Tommy has another year on the varsity and after this year's seasoning. should prove to be a hear for 1922. 


GLEN CARBERRY Judge Carberry, the understudy of Kiley and running mate of Si Seyfrit on the secondary line is one of those men who can stand a world of punishment and then come back for more. \Vhen he charges he leaves an impression on the other man and the latter respects him from then on. ·When he tackles, the grandstand lit­erally shakes with laughter, for judge has a peculiar and droll manner of arising from a heap. . .This is Carberry's last year with the squad for his presence· would he needed next fall. However he has performed in true Notre Dame style on the gridiron and if he has the same pep in worldly enterprises as in football, the wishes of ·success of the university to him will be unnecessary. 


HARVEY BRO\\TN Kewpie Brown likes to imitate and :Morrie Smith is his criterion. When Rock called out last year's freshman squad. Brown went out as. a matter of course and tried out for the backfield. He was a good man and hard as nails but the aggressive manner he· went at everything set Rockne thinking and before the season was over last year said that Kewpie would be another lVIorrie Smith. So when the· squad returned this September, Brown was put on the bucking machin~· rather than taking out ends. So ~reat was his success that I.1e was made understudy to Hunk Anderson who taught him the finer points of the game. Brown ·bids fair for a regular berth on the big team next year. 
JAi\'lES DOOLEY 
Better known as Jim. this· husky easterner came forth. saw the West and admits he rather likes it. )im is one of those good-natured Irishmen of the old school who gains friends everywhere, who maii1tains that philosophy of 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 J? 1921 
life is founded on a big smile and a hearty luindshake. Playing guard on the Hoosier eleven is no 
. small job and Big Jim has held down this posi­tion to great success. He is a great factor in every play whether he be in ·the· interference· or merely taking a lot of punishment in the line and reciprocating with some too. On the ·opposition he invari~bly gels the jump on the. other tackle and that man is in for a good ride. Defensive!y, he is at his best and it is a known (act that few plays got by him during the last season. 
THOMAS LIEB Tom is one of those general utility men who • can be used almost anywhere. At the begin­ning of the season he was placed at fullback, but Rockne saw in him the makings of a half­back and subsequently the change was made. Tom is of the crashing variety who takes every­thing in front of him along . and is never · downed until there arc at least six men on him. At the last of the season, Tom was shifted to. tackle, his old prep school position and there displayed his usual fight and skill. 
AUGUST DESCH \Vhen Gus reported to Rockne this fall for football the coach threw everything at him except the gymnasium. But perseverance won over caution and Gus was given a suit to "fool around with". He did not fool around but with dogged determination. went to work to master the Irish style of play. He did such a complete job of it that. everybody was astounded at his perform­ances. · An open.Jicld is what Gus likes, for give him the ball and watch his smoke. In every game he has reeled ofT runs of· 40 a11d .50.. yards _and the .onIy reason for. their· shortness·. is the dimen~ sions .of t~H~. field. · 


·FOH.REST COTTON· · Big ·Foci,-the· pride of ·Elgin has developed this past ·season w that extent that he is able to replace Hec~or Garvey in the big games ,vhen Garvey is hurt: This is no small. job and it . res.ts. on. the shoulders of it man. \vho must dis­play his capability before Rockne would put: him to the test. · · Cotton combines a natural aggressiveness and ·a determination to.break thru the opposing line at all costs· (or perhaps he is afraid Rock will · ride him if he doesn't). Well it is safe to say there arc few lines he has not penetrated. 
F 0 0 T B A L L I~ E VIE', 1¥ 0 F 1921 
The Reserves 
.It takes a scrappy, never say die, bunch of ~econd stringers to make a real Varsity gang and what it takes to make this invincible group, the 1921 subs had in great quantity and quality. Battered and b~nged to a frazzle, this fighting crew took on the big Berthas night after night and to say that they put the first squad ·. in fighting trim would be putting it mildly. Surely this valiant group of fighters, ~hese stout hearted chaps who wo'uld give most anything for the coveted monogram, are worthy of some words of rccogmtwn. Cra~hing day after day against heavier odds, beating their hearts out on the sidelines for just one chance to take the field, the "Subs'' were. very much there and ready like the minute men' of old to jump into the breach at· the· word. There was "Micky" Kane, !!tocky, ·. s·mall, speedy with the brains· of a Brandy. <'Sf' Seyfrit, comedian and all-around big-time utiiity rna~.. "Sy" has a smile that is irresistible, that ·beams· over with the true old fighting spirit of Notre Dame. Then there is 
r:-·---··· ..... 
"Jack" Flynn, that happy-go-lucky, six foot giant from the city of Syracuse, a. guard that goes at his heavy work with vengeance. Q~arterbacks there were none to equal the caliber of Rease, Logan, Smith and lVIagevney. That these ·men will be lustily paged next year is a forego~e conclusion. Mixon and ·Reagan pla.yed a heady game at center and the· fact that. Ro~knc had them under close observation during the. season is. a sufficient indorsement · of their ··worth. Young "Dutch" Bergman the . III· with all his track speed did monumental wo~·k in·the back­field position. Voss\ put on a .brand of tackling wares that should put him as.· the ·leading man on the 1922 squad. There was ·camerop, Miller; Murphy, Higi, Byrn.e, lVIaher, Kelly, Mayl, "Red" Shea ~ncl McDermott the greatest basket-ball man that ever stepped on to a court.. _Jaking them all in all, the reserves were; a cro)~'cl '~ho•came within an ace of making the top for -the reason that the historic halls of this gr.eat.'old ii1stitution housed the country's best in the moleskin game. 
-.,-,-_.-.---··-----~--... 
r ·~.· .."· 

F 0 0 T BALL . R E VIE 1~ll 0 F 1921 
· Frosh. (3ridders 
The 1921 Green Team was the strongest that 
ever aggregated at Notre Dame with perhaps the 
notable exception of the 1919 team. Well 
balanced and heavy, these men under the capable 
leadership of Coaches Holton and Hodler 
showed remarkable strength in the early part of 
the season and kept the Varsity on edge for 
the strenuous season which they encountered. 
By virtue of their stellar work in scrimmage. and 
game, many of them ar:e slated for Varsity jobs 
next year with the general exodus of practically 
all the men on the big team. · 
Due to injuries sustaine·d in the early part 
of the season, some of the stars were forced 
to . the bench by Rockne who saw that they 
might be more useful next fall. Adam Walsh 
was one of these, a California lad with all 
sorts of grit and ability and who is expected to show great things. Stuhldrehre, the diminu­. tive quarter from Kiski Prep broke his ankle and· J\ras forced ·to· retire. He also has the stuff that. star~ ·are .made of, and will force his com­
. peti'tors..to · ihtf li~it.· · 
The encl. positions were the weakest th1s fail 
not~vith~t~nding .the· fact that there were many 
men out for them. However, McNulty, Hunsin­
ger; -Colliris~. Smith, Lew Walsh and W. Eaton 
played consistent ball and may work into Varsity 
caliber ~vith ·little. training. The tackle jobs were 
well .tak~ri care .of by Stang, E_cl. Miller, Glie­
chert and "Big" Frank Milbauer·. The Iauer is a youngster of 285 pounds and extremely h~rd to move. Guards this fall altho not numerous are mastering Notre Dame style of crashing play and next fall, Kaiser, Monohan, Vergara, Frett and lVIoes ·are scheduled to ao great things. Vergara is a veritable eel on offensive and stone­wall on defensive and there is no question as to his chances of playing next fall. · 
In Arndt and Walsh, there are ·two centers who will bid fair for prominence."· Both· are fast, quick-witted and heavy. 
The backfield reflected the strength. of the line and with Stuhldrehre, Leydon, Cerney, H. Eaton and Bill Sheehan the destiny of the yearlings was well guided. Under their excel,ent general­5hip, long gains were made by the Miller "t"iins", Don and Jerry, Crowley, Monahan·, Coughlin and Doc Connel at half-backs and Enright _and Liver­good at full..Crowley is a diamond in the rough and it will not require any stretch of the imagi­nation to foresee him stepping into the brogans of the late· George Gipp. 
The freshmen passed thru a none-too-well season in foreign games but the popular idea of a first year team is not to win games. but to gain experience. ·The 1921 squad passed thru this school of hard knocks and are well qualified for the grea~ things in store. for them. 

F' 0 0 T B·A L L R E 1' IE ll' 0 F 1921 

BARRY HOLTON . Freshman Coach. 
Coach Holton :rpade his first appearance in Notre Dame football in 1917, but the war pre­vented his playing with the Varsity after that year. This year he has used his football knowl­edge and experience in developing what has been the best Freshman team ever seen at Notre Dame . 
. By means of this team he has contributed a most important part to the success of the Varsity's 1921 season. He began by picking his players from a maze of Freshman aspirants, a task which seemed almost impossible at the beginning of the year; at that time Cartier Field was speckled with Freshman football players. But Barry was the man for the job, and he was not long in developing· a team which went th_rough a very successful season, made the Varsity show what it could do, and raised "Rock's" hopes for another championship team· next year. Barry drilled his men thoroughly in the plays used by 
· the Varsity's opponents, but to give the latter some real c'ompetition he figured ou~ new plays for his team to use. He has developed exceed­ingly well several players who will step into the shoes of the Varsity men wl~o leave this 
year. _, ALBERT HODLER Assistant Freshman Coach. 
Coach Holton was . very well assisted by "Duke" Rodier ·in making a Freshman team. "Duke" was an All-Northwest halfback in 1919, playing for Oregon Agricultural College. He came to Notre. Dame. last winter, and conse­
·quently was not eligible for varsity. But Rockne does not waste football ability, so at the begin­ning of the year told "Duke" to· help Holton whip the Freshmen into shape. His knowledge of plays and ability as a p~ayer soon made l1iin · indispensable to ·the Freshman team. D~ring Holton's absence at the end of th~. year. "Duke". had·complete cl}arge of the team. 
·, 
..·:·.-. 
... . :·.; ·­
. . . 
DEP~UW GETS M·ESSE·D UP 
_.,·' 
J? 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 F 1921 

J: 
I 
I· 
i 
: I':It 
h ·! I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE HT 0 F 1921 
I 
l I
I 
~ 
I 
I I .I.! 
,. I 
I 
i 
I. i 
l I 
.J· 
J 
~~ 
I 
I 
l 
I . 
I 
I 
:I 

F 0 0 T BALL. 1~ E 1' IE HT 0 F -1921 
Review of the Season 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
BY STEPHEN WILSON 
A good:·d~al of the succe~s of 'football at Notre Dame can'~be t~ac.ed backdir~ctly:to'jnterh~ll-. football. :·These.t~am~. are ~oaCl~ed by capable-· men who play on the varsity and .who impart. many ideas to ;the. hall _men ,v]w in turn put: these ideas into practice~nd ofte~·-rise .tO star~· dom. W~rthy examples of the :·lattef,:;re G.iPI~. and Norm Barry:.· :The.y played tl1eir:first ye~rs on interhall. te~ms and t1uough seconailiY. in-· struction rose r~pidly and their 'fame iast year is a fact ?f ·common knowleqge.. . 
The past .seaso~ was most successftil in inter-hall circles. By virtue of a heavier line under the .excellent tutelage of Eddie Anderson, B~ownson Hall came thru with an undefeated season and displayed great P?ssibilities. Corby Hall were worthy 9pponents of Brownson -and runner-up of the title.· Those who witnessed the titular contest between B_rown_s~il and Corby· 
will never forget the brilliant ~attle which 
extended far into the gloaming. . 
Later in .the season, Sorin aided by McDermott, Logan and Prokup began a brilliant "offensive which might have played havo·c ear~ier _in the schedule. Badin as usual had ~ good team but 
due to the fact that thev did not play together . for any length of time, their playi~g was loose ~and inconsistent. · The Day Dodgers presented. a . strong :array 'of ~e~ but lack of _intere~t proved ,. ,to·~e their downfall. 'Both.Carroll and Walsh had :their quotas ···of experienc~d ·me11 -b~t could ·· 1iot cope with·the superiority of the Lop~notchers. · ·At :the··clos~ of._.the season an· all-int~rhall . team . \VaS : picked 'by t]{e COaches :which re~ect's-g~od judgment and inuch d~li~_eration. This is a· very formidable aggr~ga.tio~ and-with­out a' doubt they-:could gr~·e a good' a~count of 
·!ihems~lves if they were ilit~ed against 'many small·· ~ollege· t~a~s. BROWNSON CHAMPIONS 
The Inter-hall struggle was one of the keenest seen on the Campus in years with Brownson coming <?Ut on top of the pile and taking the Championship honors. Brownson wori all its. · ''icto~ies and practically all the dopesters award­
• ed the Big. Blue and Whit_e machine a comforta­ble edge on all c_ompetitors. Brownson always had a big, consistently drilled eleven on the field and the fact that Brother Allen's proteges were at all times able ·to cope successfully with stiff competition argues well for ·the coaching. of those who had the Blue jersied bunch in han9,. It was none other than our "Eddie". 

INTERBALL CHAMPIONS 
II 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 F. 1921 

BADIN HALL 
ALL INTER-HALL Position Name Hall .L.·E.;. :: .... ~ ....Blum..........Brownson.· 
L. T..............Oberst. .........Brownson 
L. G.............Weavel. ........Brownson· 
C. . .............Riley .....~ . . ...Brownson 
R. G............ Holmberg ...: .........Sorin 
R. T..............Flinn ..............Corby 
R. E. . ..........Drennen. . . . . . . ·.....Corby 
Q. . ............Whelan .............Walsh 
R. H. . ...........Burns ...........Brownson 
L. H. . ..........Prokup ... : .......·...Sorin 
F. . ...........Barry..............Corby 
INTER-HALL FOOTBALL SCHEDULE. OCTOBER 2.~Corby-Sorin; Badin-Brown­~wn; Carroll-Walsh. Free-Day Students . OCTOBER 9.-Sorin-Brownson; Corby-Radin; Carroll-Day Students. Free-\Valsh. OCTOBER 16.-Badin-Day Students; Sorin­\Valsh; Brownson-Corby. Free~Carroll. ·OCTOBER 23.:_Corby-Carroll; Walsh-Day Students; Sorin-Badiri. Free-Brownson. OCTOBER. 30.-Corby-Walsh;. Carroll­Brownson; Sorin-Day Students. Free~Badin. NOVEMBER 6.-Badin-Carroll; Corby-Day Students; Brownson-Walsh. Free-Sorin. · NOVEMBER 13.-Brownson-Day Students; Sorin-Carroll; Badin-Walsh. Free-Corby. 
. (. 
•...,.._ : ~-. 
, .. 

t 
J. 
·p 0 0 T B A L L · R E l' IE l~l' .0 F 1921 

SORIN HALL 
Upper Row-Raub, Volker, Holmburg, Nyhan, Front· Row-Miller; Cm~mody, Scoll, "Kid" Prokup, Crowley. Ashe, Steinle. Middle Row-Byrne, Rice, Toth. 

. CARROLL-HALL, .. · ... 
Upper Row.~''Mon:iss'', HHcd",' ,'~Wop", "Mun-· · Culhane, Girardit.l. 
. -,_·.elm.", Martin. . .. · Front How.-"Toney", .S91111Jler~ille, "Ehrritan", '.Middle How;~McGivney, Smith, Carfinr1, \Vood, · · Doii. LemGnL Cap't.; "Puddy" Gorman. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R 1£ 1' IE lV 0 F 1921 
Concerning Our newark ~od...Fat hers 
The review of any athletic season would not be complete without the proper recognition of those individuals who in some sense contributed to the success of that season,· rind so in a small degree this volume will endeavor to convey the gratitude Notre Dame feels toward ]oseph.Byrne· · Jr. and Sr., and Danny Sullivan of Newark for the £plendid co-operation and support afforded the Notre Dame squad when they invaded the east this fall. 
From the moment this worthy triumverate took the team under -their wing at West. Pojnt until they saw that all the Notre Dame luggage~ was safely packed on the -7:15 headed:· \vest, there was not a dull_ inst~mt --Danny was a.born promoter and it was not before many hours that he had allached him£elf to every-member· and made fast friends with all. Joe Byrne; affec­tionately called by the boys was always with Danny, administering to their needs and creat­ing new comforts for them. It was Rockne _who mildly interposed now and then, claimed that the \\•hole bunch would be on the rocks in a short time. as far as training was concerned. The training altho sometimes evaded was not en­
I 
tirely dispen£ed with and the remarkable result ,. of Notre Dame against Rutgers was a mute evi­dence of their condition. Everyone knows of the exact details of the wonderful times in New York and Asbury Park
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
and reference to them would be unnecessary but 
• a brief resume ~hows how the former :sons of Notre Dame treated our representatives. The welcoming party inclt1ding Rupe lVlills and Mr. Shanley met the team. at" tile Plains after the game and escorted them to· New York ·thence to · a the~tre. Subsequent dinner: parties and other ' functions fea-tured and then thei 've-re· rushed to As~ury_ Park fo1:. the 'tn1ining. perio:d. Enter­tainment was furnished in ·quantities· here and after three wonderful ·days of ideal weather, the _entire party' l~ft for New York Ciiy. · In. the ilfternoon, t~e ·game with 'Rutger~-,,,_a~ played and it is siiperfluous"to dwell on the d~t?ils. Two dinner-parties, one at the New_ York Athletic Club and the other at Reisenwebers and the Audi­torium afforded great pleasur~. for the. evening. :. The next morning the team entrained for the 
. west ·with the common affirmation that the trip was the most successful ever; taken by a Notre Dame team, not alone from the point of vic­tories gained, -but that Notre Dame _may well· be proud of her graduates and old students. No greater devotion to any .team was evidenced more, no greater reciprocation. was ever given by any team in recognition of co-operation imd· no season bids fairer. for success than next yea'r's with such capable men as these as active boosters of all things Notre Dame. 

NOTRE DAME ROOTERS
. ~ . 

J? 0 0. T B A L L R E l' IE H' 0 F 1921 


Itn flm.emnriam 
The glory. of George Gipp's prowess had just begun to be re-echoed throughout the land when the knell of death cut short the swelling paen. De­
• i cember fourteenth· marks a very important date in the student life of every Notre . Dame man. It is on that day all our thoughts revert to George Gipp·, .to pay him .respect and · offer up :prayers for his soul. He had brought to· himself and to · Notre Dame a wealth of glory and fame, he stepped into his grave, . leaving hut the memory of his flaring fame. Like a volcanic · eruption,_ Gipp's. fame flashed up before the masses, and almost . within. the twinkling of an eye it was quenched. His glory came 
· in like the rushing waters of Niagara, and at once passed out in the pall.or of geath. The recollection of his life is as impressive -as the. flash of lightning. _Upon him were showered the praises and 

honors that came to few men. · He · was proclaimed from . . coast to coast as the greatest 
" player of ·all time. He was chosen on all the mythical elevens whic'h were published ' at the close of the season of 
· ninete.e_n_ hundred and twenty. His name will never be for­gotten, and to Notre Dame . :: · men especially he is ·an ex­ample. Words cannot ·con­. tain ·our love· and esteem for him. He was ·at all times a· 
. ·gentlem~n and a friend, of splendid character and high ideals. His name is one that 
·wil~ alway~ ~omniand respect. 
:t-o. 

'I 
r:
.t 
il­
;:•1 
I . 
. f 

. :, 
I. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
NOTRE DAlVlE'S SUCCESS .
IDEALS 
I-lENilY BARNHART
If one of the fathers of Notre Dame. football would step out of his picture frame in the gym \Vhen as ·the rising ·sun gleamed across the and wander out on Cartier Field during one of · tranquil plain-, ~ the practice sessions, he would feel astounded,·· _.·-·Then~ stops ·.Lip-toe upon· the golden· dome of fold his· arms, walk hack into theframe and say -Her­in the language of Mr. Noon of Schol~sticfame: ·I stop and gaze. · 
· . I think .of those sweet peaceful years, \vhen she "Times certainly have changec"J.'' : upon her lofty pedestal . . 
And. certainly true is that quotation for· the ·Looked down· arid shew the way to right and Rules Committee have all but taken the ·foot out ' peace. . . of football. The old time idea of. mass forma-But now these are but fragrant memori~s~ those 
tion and close play has been supplanted ·by . days are never to return;· · something new, more brilliant and better. Most Still as Her wondrous smile lights up the world critics admit the forward pass has revol~tionized 1 gaze: . the· game and has opened up new and hitherto 0! Notre Dame, Thou· beauteous ·lVIother ·of unrealized possibilities. Under the new regime ,_._lVIine. . . the game· is more spectacular, more. enjoyable That' which most men strive for and 'the end and conduc~ve to cleaner playing; 'it reaches into they seek to attain cim invariably be attributed and appeals to the heart of the pure·· sportsman. to earthly motives .. _This is & natural procedure who he in turn reciprocates by playing the game for we. are entirely surrounded ··by ·material for the games worth· ever looking to~ the. good ~things and the perfection of ihe material is the 
· and rejecting reprisals. · ·~oal. Such can be· said fo~ sports generally and 
football· particularly. ·On the gridiron . men .· At Notre Dame, football has a dual signifi-fight for either ideals or compensation, the cance for Coach Rockne builds character as well former being for prestige and honor either for as teams. Upon the assumption that character. self or Alma. Mater and· the latter for uierceriary is the foundation of an organization, he discards. satisfaction. The success of ·Notre Da.me does the mucker and inconstant type and replaces it not re'flect e~rthly ideals alo.ne but 'receives with a truer product. The latter may not be as divine inspiratio~ .as well, for far· above the experience~ but by his association with Notre fighting sons of~otre Dame, the .noble figure of Dame, they have caught her spirit and ·so long ·the)3lessed Virginsmiles down and guides them as the primary good has been attained, playing ·_divinely, turning them from the paths of mucker ability always comes in the wake. playing into the highroad .of cleanliness and 
success. . . With ·such a divine· her_itage t~ upliold, the sons of Notre Dame fight with that unconquer­
·PROFESSIONALISM ~ble spirit at which the world wonders..Some people by misguiding influences .and other ul­Great distrust should he shown against those terior motives seek to. defan:te the principals ofprofessional· promoters who seek with aid. of ·our· institution through the medium .of sports,a handy checkbook to blight the careers of the · hut. it. is well that we do not hearken to thecollegians. In~ariably .they are no bigger than . 
. cry. of these Junkers hut' bear them with ·a calmthe lowest criminal for they do I1ot steal anoth­ii1clifference and_' a deadly r~prisal o.n th~ fieldser's property but something. nobler and great-, of sport. Bu~ seek though thev may,. su~cesser, a reputa"tion for which money is ·a base com-. 
,cannot he denied those who endeavor lo allainpensation. A player thus approached with a . it by clean methods . and unstinted enthusiasmcheck i~ three and possibly four figures: forgets· coupled with capable leadership an·d instruction.
for an instant and the temptation is difficult to. 
Success therefore to Notre. Dame· is but thewithstand; subsequently the press which ~ver natural sequence to· the portrayal of Her· won-praised his glories, now condemns his downfall. 
. de~ful 'id~als and as .long as Notre· Dame ex­
Only concentrated efforts on part of coil~ges ... i~Ls; so':will Her qualities co-exist . with Her; and undergraduates can combat this evil. Every .· success not" being confined to the. material point means should be employed to discourage these· · of view· qf winning games but in a more ideal­individuals from approaching the athletes. and . istic sense of losing some, however, in the latter when we reach ·that ideal, college athletics 'viii · we may mentally re~erve the right to believe that forever be free from the stigma to which it I~ as our t~ain has .fou.ght well, and is deserving of our been subjected. . lasting ·devotion. · · · . . · . 
. • 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE W 0 F 1921 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E l' IE H' 0 F 1921 
~ 

Q 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~­
.f-i ~ 
~­
<l! 
u 
.­
N ~ 
~ ~ 
0 
z 
~­
~ 
0 
u 
-~ 
~ 
0 
~ 
•I 
0 
0 
0 
v-5' 
,......; Ill 
a ~ ~ 
§ 
~ 
·i 
0 ro 
~ 
rn 
ro 
1-< 
...0 
Ill 
z 
l....: 
Ill 
s 
-ro 
~ 
Ill 
1-< 
0 
?-4 
----------------------------------------~-----~----~------­
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' 11:: H' 0 F 1921 

. KNUTE K. ROCKNE Upon the brow of our Coacli. Rockne rests 
· the crown of football mentorship~ · \Vithout the shadow of a doubt, there is but one ·in liis class and all others try to reach his perfection. Since his advent to Notre Dame, he has firmly estab­lished himself in the hearts and minds of all,. first as a player and student where his praises· were sung from coast to coast and then as· coach he displayed fear from the hearts _of_his proteges and injec~ed that Fightin' Irish spirit which is· so much in evidence today. · Last year the press unanimously acclaimed him as the Miracle Man and the Wonder Man 

of football. This year his name is the toast of thousands, many of whom do not even know the wizard. Great indeed is that-man who always, comes, Smilin' thru: 
PAUL CASTNER'S ·EDUCATED TOE 
Castner is . a great kicker. He copped the major honors· by . kicking field goals in the Rutgers' game from the 4-2 and 47 yard lines, · punting well, an-d making. two touchdowns-we ·would call this a days ·work fo.r any man. Ca£tner, as well as being a great kicker, is a n.:1~ural fieldrunner, a line plunger, and a for­midable forward passer-well, to say the least ·the big fellow is a football player in every sense 
· of lhe word. 

THE CHEER LEADERS 
Too-much credit cannot be given these men "'.-ho by their selfsacrifice and love of school lay ev~rything aside, teaching you the Big U. N. D. and ·the intricate locomotive. Game after game they perspire freely and yell themselves hoarse that you may learn the lesson of real Notre .Oame spirit so that the team on the field might know your fight and carry the fight into the opp.onents' camp. 
~ AI Slaggerl is the ~eteran of the trio and no better cheer leader yelled thru a megaphone.·· 1-li_s assistants ·are very capable and ingenious youngsters who perform with all the grace and agility of born acrobats. Truly it is that Glea­son and qark are a duet of pony cheer leaders. 
" 
:1
: i , I p·o 0 T BALL REV IE H1 0 F 1921 
·j 
:I 


WITH THE CADETS· ON THE PLAINS 

F 0 0 T B A L L R ~E .l'-1 E· H' 0 J? 1921 

THE DRESS PARADE 
Notre Dame 28; Army 0 


F 0 0 T 13 A L L It E 1' IE H' 0 F' 1921 


;. \: . . t . t ;'. : ; ., ·. ~ 
\~/
I . .( 

In the selection of our captains this pas.L year, 
· iri the wake of victory nor sordid in the case of 
no better or logical mencould be placed in· the 
defeat; in fact he is a real Notre Dame Man. 
position to. lead the wonder teams of Notre 
· \Vynne our timber-topper leads the track team 
Dame. Football has its Eddie Anderson, a 
of 1921-1922:· Himself a star, he is ever look­
born leader who captained as he played, who 
ing for ·the advantages which will benefit his 
brought to foreign fields the heritage of Notre' · · 
·team. Chet was made for this position and Fate 
Dame fight, love of the sport and a wonderful 
m·ade the selection. Jerry Blievernichi: is an ex­
reputation for clean playing. Roger Kiley our 
ample of what environment will do. He is the 
bashful Adonis pilots our basketball squ~Cl. 
"big Irish eatcher" and Ieadei· of the baseball 
. ! Quiet, unassuming and gritty, he is never hlataiit squad . 
.!'·.. ,. 

F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E ·vIE H' 0 F 1921 

~ 
::r: 
() 
J:: 
;J> 
~­
~ 
(f) 
·-: 
F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E 1' 1 E 11'. 0 F 1921 

Jl 0 0 T 13 A L L R E VIE lV 0 F 1921 
CR_eview of the ·season 
By FRANK WALLACE 
'Vith the lVlichigan Aggie scalp dangling from the=r belts Thanksgiving Day, Notre Dame com­pleted what has been in many respects its· most successful year. Victories over Kalamazoo, De­pauw, Purdue, Indiana, Nebraska, West Point, Rutgers, Haskell,_ Marquette and Michigan· Ag.: gies, have been checked ofT. 
· The one dark spot on the record, was a 10-7 loss to Iowa in the third -conte.:::t of the season. Iowa plunged the Notre Dame line for 10 points in the first period, but was on the defensive ­throughout the remainder of the game.. Not're Dame outyarded the· Hawkeyes more tlian two to one, scored one touchdown ancf was on the one-yard line0 for the winning score, but lacked the vital1:>unch. The defeat was the first in three s~asons and the second in four years. The line which permitted the Iowa· victory, held Indiana, Purdue,' Nebraska and West Point to 11 first downs in four games which· follo,ved tlie 1-h\vk­cye contest. . _ • . 
The team reached top . forin at West Point where it smothered the Army under 28 points for one qf the big sm:prises of the season~ Rockne's forward · pass . attack, as ·exe_mplified by th~ Mohardt to Kiley battery, the· intricacy of the Notre Da~e shift, ·the strength of the qne and · the rpeed. of the backfield, combine"d 'to stainp the squad as one of the most colorJul and mod-· ern i~ the coui1try. · Grantland Rice, Sain Crane and oti_1Cr .authorities i·ated Rockne's squad ahead of any teum in the east imd the entire host of sport writers who witnessed the games at the Plains and Polo Grounds centered. with varying . degrees upon _seven men as .\vorthy -of All-_ .. Am~rican consideration. Two of· these, Desch and Castn~r, .are second stri~-g ht1lfbacks, who have been c_rowded from the line-up by older-· men.. The remaining Notre Da!lle candidate's arc . Kil~y, _Mohardt, Capt. Anderson,-Wy~me, Sh:tw. 
Notre Dame· is geriet;ally recognized as the·.:· best forward paEsing team in -the co~ntry; and the lVI'ohardt' to Kiley' battery h:~s been the b~g · cog in. this aerial ·offense thi·oughout the ye:~r. Capt. Andersol1 ·h:1s been slightly behind Kiley in receiving passes, but plays an i111portant part in the system by decoying the oppo.--;ing defense a~vay from Kiley. Against Iowa ·this. trio. corn­pletcd 13 passes for 23'5 y3~·ds, wh!le_the H~~''k·: eyes made but one pass for eight yards. Three Notre Dame ·passes in succession were good for 70 yards and the fourth was ambitiously in search of the Iowa goal_ when the whistle blew 
Tor the first half. 
Purdue and Nebraska were beaten . without the pass _·b~t it was used exten~iv'ely against Indiana. The Notre Dame game against Army and. Rutgers was a veritabl_e passing show, unanimously considered the greatest .exposition of_ the aerial game ever seen on any gridiron. M9hardt has few equals as a passer and has been the best running back on the te:nn throughout the year. 
Kiley· is considered by many autl~orities to stand alone as a receiver of the 1:>a:ss. He catches the ball like a baseball and takes it out of the air · frorh any angle.. He Is a. hai·d m·ait to down· after :receiying th_e pass .and .has ~cored a touchdown against every team, he has played. a·gainst. _this Eeason. with the:·:excef>tion of Nebraska." Cai)t. Eddie A~de_rson and Kiley are. easily' the be~t. tea·m of ends in th~ count~y, and although _Kiley's work in the east gives-~1im prefer~_nce· the:i"e, Capt. Anderson has. a slight edge in the west;·wherc his ability: to· get ·down under· punts~ cuC into ·a play' and: ·recover fum­bles _·has been a -feature of his game all. -season. AnderEon's '''ork in recovering fumbles after tackling the 1;eceiver of punts was responsible for· the· victory· over Nebraska and figured rna­
. teriully in the win at \Vest Point. ­
Chet "\Vy.nne, track captain and plunging full­back, was .styled ·by' Charli_e Brickley. "the best running back of the year."· Wynne~ who is also_ track cap"tain and a na_tionally known ·hurdler, .has improved greatly. throughout the . scasoii ;:md .has starred in every co~1test of the :_ year. · His ·.work against Nebraska paved . the _\v;:\y for. the single winning ·touchdown. He t\,•icc ran back-the kickoff to mid-field against \Vc.5t Point where he also.:cut _through the line for· 12-yard gains ~mel. took a forward pass for a 4·5-vr:rd ride· ·to a touchdown. llis diving· rcco\rery of aptlSS, line·-p·lunging, and· r~mtting Pgaim;t Rutgers· caused Brickley to·.· class him 
ll.s .. the best running bc:ick·of the_year. · '\\'ynnc 
weighs'. only. 170, and . cornbines ddve . "'ith ·speed. · · 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
COACH ROCKNE 


To you, Coach Hockne by your initiative~ high ideals and good sportsmanship_ does all Notre .Dame extend their. thanks. The outside world can express its wonder at your accomplish­ments, marvel at your ingenuity an_d condole at their defeats; but we do not wonder, marvel or condole for we know that The TEAM reflects you and your qualities. If we win·, you win for it is you who instill into the team· that never-say-die spirit which invariably wins games. If we lose, we can rest ·well assured that you h:tve done all that is humanly possible to win rnd with this assurance can Notre Dame ever );e proud of her teams and a wizard coach who ·/; 
h:s the courage of his convictions. 
ASSI_STANT COACH HALAS 
In another manner does Notre Dame extend · her thanks to you Assistant Cosch Halas. You rre new to Notre Dame, hut you have adopted her princip"Ies and caught_ l_1er spirit with glad­



dening celerity. Your work is in a greater part hidden from the public gaze; you do not visit the ecenes of our· foreign triumphs but quietly !:leal away and seclude yourself in the stands of Llnother te:tm to gather information which might be useful to Notre D~me. later ·on. By your m:soci~tion, you have· become one of us vnd we th:mk you in conj1,1nction with Coach Ilockne for your untiring efforts and evident fidePty to your ~dopted Alma Mater . 
.....:., 

A LITTLE INSIDE DOPE 
: 
F 0 0 T B A L L I~ E l' IE lV 0 F 1921 




':MAURIE" SMITI-i 
"HONEST" DAVE 
Coaching at Columbia University 
In the world of finance 
· Portland, Oregon . 


F' 0 0 T B A L L R I~ l' IE lV 0 F 1921 

STUDENT :MANAGER To Gene Kennedy falls the honor of All American student manager. This elongated youngster was a student of Purdue before his advent to Notre Dame but he found that the Fightin' Irish institution was more to_ his liking and so he hied hence. During his· first varsity year he 'vas a center on the football team then followhtg the. practice of gridiron warriqrs went out for basketball and made regular:center (~r two. years on the varsity. Seeking other worlds to conquer· he tried hurling. the discus on. the track squad and earned points for his Alma Mater in this sport; _ · Coach Rockne saw in the hard working ·ath­lete, the promising qualities of ri student organ­izer and manager and consequently the present honor was bestowed uilori him. His zeal for work ·was ma1iifested in his pleasant attitude ·to acceptall'details offered him and the subsequent manner in which he execu~ed them has won over the confidence of all those ,\,ith \vhom he comes in contact. This is Gene's last ye~r in school" ·and his unbounded co~rage coupled with his unselfish ideals will ever .remain as a goal for those who follow him. · · 
NOTRE DAME'S NIANYVICTORIES 
The greatest era of sporting activity in· the history. of Notre Dame was brought to an end. with the fade·d football season. Indee-d,· last year's undefeated gridiron campaign _\vas a merry prelude. · . . · . 
The 1921 football season will· stand stark 
· alone as the Jl)OSL prosperous -both from the _ standpoint of sterling competition and from the box office viewpoint in the history of the game. Successive victories over Kalamazoo~ DePauw,· Purdue, Nebraska,· Indi'ana, ·An11y, Rutgers, Has­kell Indians, Marquelle and l\'lichig~n..Aggies merit some word·of ·praise fo·r the gamest bu'rich of athletes that ever stepped on the gridiron.. Approximately one hundred ·;and· fifty ·thousand fans saw Notre Dame in action this season.
,I 
Before the curtain is· ru~g.-·down c·ompletely on 1921 football it might be well to· showerI! 
. rlj praises where commendatimi is due. Dm;ing the : last three months a host· of individuals· have I risen . to heroic h.eigh_ts in their: endeavors .. to · 
achieve glory on the gridirqn.--_No't alone _have the players responded 'vith un~sual success but several coaches have aspired to (ame am~ clasped" hands with that elusive deity. ~ 
During the season that ofiicially ended Thanks-· giving day We find IJlO individuals so· deserving of attention as Knute Rockne, Notre Dame'~ illustrious coach, and "Eddie" Anderson captain of the greatest team that ever represented a western institution, or that was ever molded to· gether at one and the same Lime. 
i· . !ill 
H 
Rockne developed an amazing offense out of light but speedy material. He brought east a team that has never been equaled this season. And he did not rely entirely upon the pile driving force of his machine, but developed the greatest overhead attack that has ever. been seen on a gridiron s-ince the days when Rockne was · a pupil under Harper. 
Rockne's backs had an amazing way of piling through the. forwards ·and to the secondary de­fence. Every man who received the ball started like ·a sprinter. It was astonishing to the on­lookers to see the Notre Dame backs go through . that big Army' line so ·easily, and. the beaufiful work of the backs ii1 performing the Notre 
Dame shift plays. . 
··Notre Dame was fortunate indeed in having 
a captain the calibre of "Eddie" 'Anderson. His 
success as a captain is indisputable. Few leaders 
ever got their personality into their club to such 
good efTeel as Eddie. 
There is one sure bet, and that is-when the Hackmen are fighting, they need bow to no team .in the game~Farewell, men of Notre Dame, your Alma Mater is proud of you. · 
CHEER KING SLAGGERT 
"The personage befitting the crown,"· is a 
phrase which would in a minor degree be fiLLing 
to bestow upon this master of mob psychology. 
AI got much_experience in this art from handling 
m·en in the navy during the late unpleasantness 
when he held down the. bars of an ensign. 
Thanks Lo this training, when he returned to 
Notre Dame and completed his education, he also 
brough_t with him numerous original schemes 
and ideas as to how a college should cheer. 
Heretofore cheering was merely a maller of 
course mid entirely devoid. of system hut lie, 
wjth a superb injection ofpep raised it to an art 
thus in. a material way assisting the different 
teams to fight as they 1iever fought before know· 
ing th:1t the entire institution was behind them; 
HO\V NOTHE DAME GOT ·IT'S NAME A little bit of g<;)ld and bltie fell from the sky one day, . And nestled in a wondrous spot from people far away-Then as the founders saw it and it looked so . sweet alul fair . .They gazed upon its heauly and began to settle there. Then they spi·inkled it with. buildings and the · . seed began to grow; . ~ ­No fairer fruit you ever saw no maller ·where you go. . \Vith rev'rend hands they fashioned it and now with proud _acclaim \Ve call that place our haven for the Sons of Notre Dame. ___:_Hogan '23. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' I I£ H' 0 F 1921 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1'1 E VV 0 F ·1921 

THE WONDER lVIAN · The phrase, "Miracle Man. of 1920" has ·be­come synonymous with Rockne, greatest. among the great mentors who have developed wonder gridiron machines since the days way back in the dusty ages when football and moleskins were originated. Rockne is in reality just the most efficient man in football. He makes the lea£t go the farthest. Who coached the undefeated Notre Dame football teams for the last four seasons. : Who made an All-American of George· Gipp, "Eddie" Anderson, Johnny Mohardt, "Rog'? Kiley and "Buck" Shaw after these men came to Notre Dame with ~o previous football experience to speak of. Who handles the multitudious duties of an athletic director? Knute Rockne and nobody else.. The question is how does he do it? · Person­ality is the answer. Rockne's years· at Notre Dame have been fraught with conspicuous success. The story of Rockne's great work, especially. during :the years when he has had complete charge of athletic afTairs . under the dome, is a story of tireless effort, superhuman energy, and clean sportsmanship. · He modestly attributes to the men who fought the fights for the Gold and Blue· all the glory of Notre Dame's ascent into the bright halls ·of fame; t~e players and _the fans, however, know full well that "Rockmen"' could never be developed without the m~tchless coaching of Knute K. Rockne. 
. WHO SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE 
At the conclusion of the football season of 1920 Notre Dame was recognized as one of the greatest elevens in the country and George Gipp, proclaimed the greatest star of ·the year, was considered the prime force in the success of the team. 
Without Gipp, Di~ector of Athletics Rockne 
arranged an eleven game schedule for the year 1921 that included Iowa, Purdue, Nebraska, Indiana, \Vest Point and Rutgers within 31 days. The Notre Dame coach was considered the mad man of the gridiron-without another Gipp it simply could not be done. But Rockne went ahead and before the season was half over he found that he had four'Gipp's. 
Johnny lVIohardt, running mate to the All­American last year and co-star with him at West Poiht and Indiana, had been shifted to Gipp's place at left halfback and did all _the passing so intimately connected with. the success of Gipp and Notre Dame in the two-previous seasons. • 
· Gus Desch, world's champion 440 yard hurd­ler, hurled and dogged his way for three count­ers in his first college football game-just watch this man go in 1922. · · 
Chet Wynne, track captain and nationally known hurdler~ took the opening kick-off of the year and raced 80. yards for a touchdown. · Wynne covered himself with glory in the Ne­braska game and also at West Point. He was 
. the lightest. fullback l.n the game. 
Danny Coughlin, who ran 80 yards for a touchdown against the Michigan Aggies in 1920, continued his form in all· the games played this season. He was a marvel to behold in the Indi­ana encounter ·at Indianapolis, time ~mel time again he . tore through the Indiana line and around the ends for gains not less than 30 yards. 
These, and many others. are the men that ·a're making football history for their Alma Mater. 
THE VICTORY MARCH Cheel', cheer for old Notre Dame, \Vake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley up on high; · . Shake down the echoes from the sky. ·what though the odds he great or small, , Old Notre Dame will win over all; \Vhile her loyal sons go marching onward to victory. -Shea. 
HAIL! NOTRE DAME \Vhen the close of day has ·come, sweet those memories ring, 
'Round us near are men sincere; to you their · prais.es sing. .T~e golden .sun at God's west gate reflects your 
blue on high; Your colors Alma Mater were never born to die. Hail!·. Notre Dame your glorious fame loyal 
sons uphold; Deep devotion, lasting love, we give, the blue and gold. · Revere we must this sacred trust, forever he thy fame, We offer thee this victory, Alma :Mater, Notre Dame. -Flynn, . '23. 
. I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE .H! 0 F 1921 

OLD SCENES FROM HOMECOMING 
. Notre Dame 28; Purdue 0 
J? 0 0.T 13 A L 1--~. 1~ E l' 1 E HT 0 J? 1921 
GThe (3reatest of Them All 
\Vith the football season· apparently closed N,otre Dame's hot stove le~gue experts· are find­ing ·amusement in looking back over the season and hazarding guesses as to which team could be considered the nation's best. It is probable that a questionnaire circulated among .the stu­
. dents would reveal a surprising unanimity of opinion on this subj_ect. One gloomy clay the gods saw fit to ·frown upon us, with the result that we cannot· dispute the claim of Iowa to the Western Championship, but we do put forth the claim that we have assembled the greatest collection of stars in the country: a:ocl that taken as a team tbey form the most power­ful aggregation in Amerfca. That this is not merely a local opinion is shown ~JY the follow­ing lineup composed of our men who have_ been picked for various all-star teams by experts thi·oughou.t the country: 
L. E.-Kiley (Notre Dam~)~ 
Selected · for All-American by: Phila­delphia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening NC\\•s, Jack Veiock, Henry Farrel; All­Star Learn by 1-fugh Fullerton; Hall of 
_Fame by· Grantland Rice. 
L.· G.-I-1. Anderso~ (No_Lre Dame). 
Selected for All-Am~~ican by Jack 
· V eip.ck, and for the second All-American of Billy Evans; All-Western .(second Le~m):. by Walter Eckersall. 
C.-Mehre (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Brooklyn Eagle. 
H. G.-Dooley (Notre Dame). 
Selected for Grantland Rice's Hall of Fame. 
R. T.-Shaw (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Lawrence Perry; All-American by Vincent Engels; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice.· 
R. E.-E.. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected· for' All-American by: Walter Eckersall, Henry Farrell, Billy Evans (second team); All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner, Norman Ross; All Star Team by: Hugh. Fullerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 
L. H.-Mohardt (Notre Dame). 
Selected for ·All-American by \Valter Eckersall (second team); All-\Vestern by: \\Taller Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner. · 
R. H.-Castner (Notre Dame). 
All Star Team by Hugh· Fullerton. 
F.-\Vynne (Notre Dame).' 
Selected for All-American by Philadel­phia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening '1 News, Henry Farrell (second team) ; All­Western by Norman Ross; All-Star teani by Grantland Rice. 
In· addition to these honorary positions, the following Notre Dame men were placed upon the first or second All-State Learns by Blaine Patton, of the Indianapolis Star: 
L. E., Kiley (Notre Dame) ; L. T., Garvey (Notre Dame); L. <;., H. Anderson (Notre Dame) ; R. T., Shaw (Notre Dame) ; H. E., E. Anderson (Notre Dame); L. H., lVIohardL (Notre Dame) ; F., Wynne (Notre .Dame) ; Q., Grant (Notre Dame). 
-The Scholastic, by .G. Hagan . 

. ' 
J? 0 0 T B A L L .1~ ~ l' I I~ lV 0 F 1921 
NOTHE DAME ON THE GIUDIHON 
PrrEss CoMMENT 
This is Notre Dame's Thirty-third football sea-· son . \Ve started the game in 1887, losing to Nlichi­gan 8 to 0. · Since then we have played 231 games, winninrr0 178, losing 37 and tying 16. 
Notre Dame to date has scored 6365 points to he! ·opponents 104.0. This proves. the constant quality of our elevens. 
Notre Dame had eleven ·undefeated seasons. The Notre Dame scoring record was made in 1905 against the American Medical Collerre of 
• ' 0
Chicago, 14.0 to 0. . Our worst beating was at the hands of Wis­consin in 1904. when they walloped us 58 ·to 0. In 1912 Notre Dame scored 389 points to their opponents' 27. This record stands to date. Notre Daine won the State championship for Itt. years. Nebraska has ~een beaten in four of seven r;an1es, one was a Lie. 
In twelve battles with Purdue for the Stale 
Litle we have won seven, lost three and Lied two 
games. 
We have also battled with Indiana on twelve 
occasions, resulting in seven games won, four 
lost and one tied. 
Notre Dame's first invasion of the East was in 
1909 when "Red" Miller's ·team walloped Pitts­
burgh, 6 to 0. · Since that time 16 other invasions 
of the East, thirteen notable victories,· three cle­
f eats and one tie game. . · 
Notre Dame's victi.ms in the East, include the 
Army on six occasions, Pittsburgh twice, with 
one tie, Penn State, Syracuse, Carlisle and 
Hutgers. 
Invading the ,South, the Gold and Blue has 
presented a perfect record of three victories in 
three games played. The undefeated Texas 
"Longhorns" fell twice and Rice Institute fell 
by a 55 to 2 score. Some Record. 
BEST BUILT MAN IN THE UNIVERSITY. 
Buck Shaw, right tackle, is the last serious Notre Dame contender for national honors. The big tackle uses to advantage. in the line the strong . right arm which ·earned him · the Litle of conference champion ·shot putter and the magnificent physique which awarded to him 
a medal for being the best buill m:m in the 
university. ·His 182 pounds are so ev.enly dis­
tributed that ·he eombine3 m~ximum strength 
with speed-and he has ·used this ideal combi­
nation· with deadly skill throughout the season. 
Iowa gained little through "Shaw's side of the f 
line and the big fellow . broke-through on sev­
eral occasions to throw Aubrey Devine for 
losses. 
Against the superb Nebraska· line which 
shoved Pitt all over Forbes field, Shaw was a mountain and the Cornhuskers were so thoroughly outcharged .and outplayed that they made. but two first downs through the Notre . Dame forward wall. Shaw backed both sides of the line, blocked kicks, hurried passers, threw the Cornhuskers back for several losses ~f eight .yards· and· was down under punts just a shade behind Capt. Anderson. He continued his perfect play at West Point and the Polo Grounds. In addition to his multiple threat· at tackle Shaw is also one vf the most successful goal kickers of the year, having kicked· 34· of 
a possible 35 goals after touchdowns·. 
Paul Castner, second string halfback, who 
was the individual star of the Rutgers game 
where he ran 4.5 yards for a touchdown on the 
second play, drop-kicked 42 and 47 yards in 
Lwo allempls, averaged 55 yards on punts and 
went down and LackJed· his man after 'kicking. 
ofT; is a I so a clever passer and will make a 
strong bid for high honors next season when 
the team will he built around him as it was 
around Gipp last year and Mohardt this season. 


FOOTBALL _1~/~l'IEH! 0 ]l 1921 
UJhat The Papers Sal] 
Clipped Comments 
-seen in adion. I ·have not had the pleasure of seeing
-"I see· be the pa-apers," said Mr. Hennessy, 
Nebraska, !own, Ohio St11te or California. Concerning"that ivrybody but some o' the Chicago '\\'Tithers them I t•an speak only as to reports made to me hy fellows who ha\"e watched them. · 
says this Nothre Dame has a r-rare team." In my. opinion Notre Dame iii the· greatest football te11m in the eountry, with JJafnyette se<•ond, Penn Stnte third,"So they. ar-re," said lVIr. Dooley. "But it's lJCrhaps Cornell fourth, although Cornell hn!i had too easy a schedule to he judged ns good us its record shows.
nathural t'im. Did ve iver see an Irishman 
P1•nn Stato hns been scored on so often us to reveal thothat wasn't a clivver" fighter? The. whole o' fnct that its defense is pregnable. Cornell has 11 wealth of material, a lot of drh·c and runs
em have been fightin' f'r cinturies f'r their in­· its i1lnys well, hut it is impossible to rate it up with Penn State, 'Lafayette or Notre Dnmc because its weak schedule
dependence frim the onreasonable John Bull, 
did not show its possibilities or perhaps re\'eal its weak·an' they've had plinty enough o' practisin'. nesscs. Penn State is one of the three really tcan111
~:rent ·r hn \'e seen. Exceptin~: Lafayette, it has more sheer power
Compatithion is their pie. Faith, hev ye iver 
in attnek. 
seen taims that could aisy be baitin' sich as Laf11yette, for sheer power, stren~:th and defensive strcn~th, lends them nil. I I Holy Cross, Boston~ .Marquette, Daithroit an' \\'hich brings us_ to Notre Dame which I consider (rc· member, you only ha\"C my opinion) the strongest and most
Nothre Dame? The schools they lnte are big­
resourceful-team, with the grcntcst wealth of material, the ger 'n thim, but Ireland is 'andicapped by most mohil'e style of attack, the most di\'ersified lot of talent in the ·country. Thi!!i team can run, forward pn11s,England too." kick nnd plunge. It hns yielded fewer first downs to op· poncnts than any team in the country, and Jlrohnbly"This here pa-aper," said Mr. Hennessy, gained more ground thnn any other tcnm. That it woul<l heat IJaf11ycttc I feel certnin, for you must remember that
"seys ~omethin' prithy complimenthary." With 
these two piny entirely different foothnll. In fi~urin~: it, do ·hundreds of others he·passed it over. From not figure the score against Army. Notre Dame nnd Army pluyed shortened periods. Hnd the game been full length,some, as acknowledgments are bowed to Fin­Notre Dame could ha\'c won' hy 30 ndditionul points nt 
ley Peter Dunne for the appearance of his 
lcn:~t. The\' 1111\'l' fi\'C men on the team who are as good ns th~ 
two characters, these are selected: men \\;ho will he <'hosen for AII·Amcri!'an this fall. and two who probably will he chosen. The)' ha\'e two men on tho sCJund as fast ns Prcnch was (one faster). 'rlwy ha\'e a forward passer who shoots n foothall ns if 11egdn~: a hnse·
(N. Y. Herald) 
hall. and two great men in Kiley and Anderson, who cnn BY DANII~JJ t•nfl·h it in the same way. ' · Concei\'nhly. if Lafayette •·ot the hull nnd hJtmnwrc!l
Dazzling forward !ll\So;cs working oi1t of dehuling-eriss· 
and hnmmer!'!l nnd ne\'!~r ~n\'t' it llll the ho~·s from the
erosses nnd line feints, hnfllin~ jumps shifts which !"arried 
Hilltop would have a t•hanl"e, hut Rol'kne hns the hotterthe h1u·ltt> throu~h with lr<'mendous momentum and wrou~ht team.
havoe e~·!•n·whcre-the~;e stood out in the eflidem•y with 
You wanted n ·frank cx·Jiression. ::\fr. Trailer, nnd therewhi<'h a tri1ly great footlmll team from Notre lJame o\'er· 
it is. The mystery to me is how Town e\·er heat thnt team
whelmed a ~reen, hlunderin~ Rutgers ele\·en hy 48 to 0 at without. the usc. of n ~:as attn!'lt.
the Polo Gromuls yesterday arternoo!l. 
(Indianapolis' Star) (Detroit l<'ree Press) 
Is the ·Notre Dame ele\·en a !~otter tPnm than tin• one BY GRANTI;AND RIC!~ whic·h represented the upstnters last season 1 This is n uuestion that has been )lilt to tll'c writer on se\"£'rnl occn·
New York, No\', !H.-As the football situation mo\·es \\"estward it becomes simplified. 
sions. It is our opinion that Ro!·kne's tcnm this season is superior in many respects to the one of ·1920, . It i!l
In the ::\fiddle \\'est, Iowa ttnh·ersih· stands out nho\'e the fold, \\'ith Notre Dame only a span lJChind;·undouhtf'dly 
minus the ser\'ices of the mi~ht~· star-Geor~e Gipp-lmt ns stron~: now ns the team which heat them 10 to 7 on with ele,·en
for co-ordination and ele\'en·mn•• nhilib·. an•l October 8. · 
men in e\·ery piny. it excels. Neither the offense nor the defense is centered around unv one man. At the llresent writing it is extremeh· doubtful if any ele•·cn in the United(Newslmper Enterprise Asso.) 
l=Hatcs could defeat the Notre Dame outfit.· It is n team BY BILIJY J~VANS that is 11 rredit to the Hoosier state in e'"eQ' respect nnd made up of high·clnss men from end to end.
Xew York, No\·. 16.-"Notre Dame has one of the great· t'st football teams I have seen in years. It is 11 much 
(New York World)better team than Yale, Hnr\'nrd or Princeton. I would like 
nothin~ better than to h:l\'e $100,000 on Notre Dame in n BY DAVID .T. WAIJSH
series in which the western team would meet Yale, Han·urd and Princeton.'' Sueaking at the nnnunl Rut~ers foothnll lunl"heon nt the 
That is the way Tneks Hurdwi<'k. former Hnn·urd star, Jndln House yesterday. Geor~e Foster SJtnford. head co'lch. sizes up the Notre Dnme tcnm, which h11s taken the east ...xnressed the opinion that !tis tP<>itt h11d a chnnce to l>£'nt hy storm. Durin~ the intermission between the Yale· Notre Dame in the im11ending Elcetion Day ~:amc nt the Princeton s:nn1e, Hardwick dropped in the press box to Poln GroundR. flay hello. I was sittin~ in the midst of 11 ,:rroup of New Joseph Byrne. who spoke for .Notre Dnme, was extrn\'n· York sportin~: writers. all footh11ll experts. E\·ery one of ga1•t in his praise of Knutc Roclwc as 1111111 nnd conch. them snid "Amen" to H11rdwiek's opinion. ''Tlu~re has been se\'ernl things tl111t h•n·<' !•ontrihuted 
Enstern critics nrc n~reed that Penn State is the hest to our football success hut in the m'lin the answer narrows team in the cnst. ::\[ost of them nrc of the opinion th11t rlown to Rockne,'' he deelared. ''As 11 <·oneh, no one will Notre D11me hus 11 slight edge on Penn. Howe\'er, all nrc deny thnt he is one of the ~:realest i•t the r•ountn·. He sorry the two teams are not ,:roin~ to meet. It has heen I'Omhines football horsr scn~:e with wide vision nnd rare suggested ·that Notre Dame and Penn State piny a JlOSt intelligence. Further than thnt. his word is law. There season game nt the Polo Grounds. nrc some 1.465. students on the Notre Dame cnm1H111 nnd 
they are nll with Rodwe to n mnn. 
(N. Y. Tribune) ''And why not 1 Here is n mnn wholly wrnpncd up in the l"ame nnd his team. Not only does lw conch the plnyer11
BY HUGH S. PULIJER'l'ON on the field, hut he lmys their railroad tickets and meals, ''\rhich team, in your opinion, considered as a 'I'I~ AM, is looks to the transnortntion of hn~~-nge. He even hnnd11 
the hcst in football this season? ench player his suit heforc. the gnmo nnd tnl•es it hack ",J. AJJIJJ~N TRAILER", ngn in after the t:"nme is O\'er." The spenlter intimated that Notre Dnme l111d iust n.c; fine 
::\[r. Trailer asks a CJuestion whicli is calculated to start 11 tenm ns lust .venr, when it ranked with the· lJCst in tho something which neither he nor I can finish satisfactorily. Potmtry. And this in spite of the fnct that the late GeorgeI cnn nnswer only concerning tho football teams I have Gipp nnd several other stars nrc no longer available, 
)c 
......_. _...._.,. _______ .-·~-----­
--~~­
FOOTBALL R.E 1' IE 1¥ OF 1921 
(Pittsburg Press) (Evening Sun, New York) 
BY WESTBROOK PEGJ,Jm United News Staff Correspondent 
Castner, right halflmck for the Blue team, slipped ar~uud left end, going like an engine to a thrcc·alarrn fire, and . whirled across Rutgers' goal for the first touchdown. 
Castner went through the entire Rutgers team arid flashed hy the men on secondary defense so fast and with so much room that~ they were spared C\'cn the jar of hurling th\!rnsclvcs in his general direction. 
WA.NT ANOTHE~ GA~U<: 
New York woulu like very much now to sec the Iown team against, say the pick of Yale, Princeton and Harvard, considl.'ring that Iowa defeated Notre Dame. Or Notre Dame against Penn State which showed here a little more than a wci!k ago i.Jt a burlesque victory over the Golden Tornado from Georgia Tech. 'l'hc westerners. have some· thing in the way of football that eastern teams seem to have not. They not only hurl forwartl passes in pretty arcs· hut they catch them and hang onto them more times than not. 
.Notre . Dame opened up after the second half began.There was no ·necessity for bruising the men by asking them .to . carry the ball. And pass after pass was com· plctcd for 15, 20, 30 yards, the only difficulty being that the officials were unusually scrupulous in watching Notre Dame for off·side during the execution of the Notre Dame shift. In this manner Notre Dame lost enough ground to make another twq or· three touchdowns. 
DESCH cm.ms THROUGH In the third period Coach Rockne of Notre Dame, sent in a frightened deer by the name of Desch, none other than Gus Desch, the world's champion 440 hurdler. It was explained by Notre Dame ho~·s in the Jlrcss coop that Rockne hasn't made very free usc of this Desch boy he· cause the track coach docsn' t want him used up or murrcd in such rough work as plunging or tackling. Hand him the hall from n formation, though, show him a hole the size of a B. B. shot, let him alone and then watch· him go. Desch run left end for 45 yards on the very first play after he was sent in. It seemed almost unfair to use a man so fast as he against men so slow as the Rutgers fellows, yet they aren't so awfully much slower than the· average college team. Desch would outrun almost anybody in football. Again they gave him the hall and he carried it for 50 yards, and on a third· sprint, he made 35, simply by out· running the Red chargers plunging behind and converging 
on him. · 
After one glimpse of 'this famous 'Vcstcrn team that has been defeating the Army year after year for so many years, New York woitld like to see some more against a big three team if possible. ­
SUPERB BACKFIELD When the Indiana. backfield wasn't aiding and abctqngin the manufacture of successful passes, it was runmng the 100 around and in 10 flat. It was one of the swiftest sets of hacks seen in the East this season. · Just by way of variety, "'ynne and Castner, wlto each had made 50~yard runs for touchdowns; kicked a field goal
apiece. · 
(Indianapolis Star) 
In the game at 'Vashington park Saturday an outstand· ing feature was the manner in which the Notre Dame war· riors rallied to the assistance of the man who obtained possession of the .coveted leather. This was true whether a regular signal was called, a kick-off rccch·ed, a pass in· tcrceptcd or a fumble picked up. Eleven men in every play is the way Coach Rockne has his men workin~. The head· long diving interference, which is far more effective than a straight·arm delivered by the player carrying the ball, was in evidence· at all times so far ns the Notre Dame offense was concerned. A running, pushing, half-hearted inter· ference discounts offense fully 50 per cent or more. 
(The Wake, Chicago Tribune) 
Notre Dame has played an even fifty games since 1916, losing four. It has scored 1,550 points to opponents' 197. l•'unny thing I noticed in the dope book, Har\'ey, is that aside from Purdue and Indiana conference teams seem content .to play Notre Dnme just once. "'onder if Iowa will take another crack at the '.'Fighting Irish" next season 7 
Gil. 
·(New York Evening Sun) 
And now Notre Dame. most' prominent sectarian eleven in the "'est, is pointed this way to tackle Army at "'est Point to·morrow, and Rutgers at tho Polo Grounds next Tucs· day. The Kellys, Burkes and Shcas of the gridiron care nothing for distance when assured .of a warm lmttle. 
'l'hose who saw Notre Dame in .action saw a great foot· hall team. Rockne probably is the foremost exponent of the open game now conching. Besides which he is a fine all around· conch. Notre Dame "floats" its }lasses. They are all passes to a certain definite man. Other men aro sent out as decoys and the direction of the play is fre· qucntly masked by the crossing over of the ends. Re· peatcdly the left end took .a long pass over the right end of the line. The 'Vesterncrs have so many variations from similar formations that oven when the general idea of the play is known it is almost impossible to break it up. The passes ·are of all lengths and made in all portions of the field.· When they are mixed with a fine nmning and kicking attack, as they arc, it may he seen what the de· fending team has to contend with. · 
H. Anderson is Notre Dame's star guard, lmt againstRutgers it ·was Dooley who did the most spectacular work of the three centre men, 
Desch, who played pvrt of the game in the backfield for tho South Bend eleven, is the Olympic sprinter and hurd· lcr. Even in a football suit he is a flash .of light. 
Shaw, Kiley and Castner of Notre Dame would be wei· come additions to any eleven. We have seen few better ilrop kickers than Castner, and he can do about everythingrequired of a back. 
We certainly would like to sec a battle between Notre Dame and Penn State. It would he a case of two fine scoring machines pitted against each other and should he u thrilling game to watch. 
Knute Rockne pulled a new one on the oflicials in the 
·Notre Dame-Rutgers game. When they accused him of coaching from the side lines he stoutly maintained that hew nterely had been talking to himself. 
(India~apolis Star) Editorial OUR GREAT FOOTBALL MACHINE 
· Re~ardlcss of university afliliations the Hoosier takes pride in the achievements of the Notre Dame football team, now returning to its home grounds after a successful in· vasion of the East, which included a brilliant victory over the Army team and a one·sidcd romp over the Rutgerseleven. The Big Three of the East may isolate themselves behind a wall of prestige and the Big Ten of the "'est look with supercilious eye upon those institutions which do not have the privilege of membership, if .it may.· be re· gardcd as such, but the real comet dashing across the national football horizon is the team from South Bend. 
Coach Rockne's men have traveled East year after yea·rwith a dazzling assortment :of forward pusses and trick plays mingled with the old-style smashes until Eastern 
• critics have growri accustomed to expect the unusual when· e\'er Notre Dame appears. It is seldom that they are dis· appointed. Tho precision with which Notre Dame handles the forward pass and the ability to use it for consistent gains are almost uncanny in comparison with the uncer· tainty which accompanies its use by tho average team. The Rockne clan also executes its plays with a speed which often makes nn opponent appear unusually slow. In addi· tion to this mechanical perfection the players have im· hibcd a spirit of aggressiveness and bull-dog tenacity tlmt has repeatedly snatched victory out of apparent defeat. 
(N. Y. Tribune) 
But we never heard of a weak Notre Dame, and neither ltas the Army. Notre Dame usually comes ~caring out of tho 'Vest with all tho vibrant ener17y of a highly annoyedcyclone, lcnving little but debris m its forward passingwake. 
(N•. Y; Herald) A slender-hipped halfback ·named Castner was the in· dividunl star of this football mixture. He first showed his· mettle by romping half the distance of the field for tho first Hoosier touchdown. In the fourth period he scored another after a brisk run around tho left wing and down the sideline. But these contributions were as nothingcompared with the drop-kicking that this slim youngsterproduced for the benefit of the New York crowd. Charley Brickley was in the press box watching the pro·cecdings, and oven Charley was never more ·graceful or n'onchalant than Castner in booting a drop-kick between the uprights. Castner had only one opportunity, and it came with the bnll on the 45-yard line in the second quar· · tcr after Notre Dame had got tho ball on an intercepted forward pass. A forward pass hit the ground and then Castner fell back and, with all the ease and briskness of a kicker in a private workout, lifted a field goal over the crossbar from· the •16-yard line. Tho kick sailed squarely between the posts. 
FOOTBALL REl'IEHT OF 1921 
(New .York World) 
BY :\IONITOR 
\Vest Point, N. Y., Nov. 5.-Talk al10ut the· Golden Tornado, tlie Big Red Storm aml the New Ha,·en Hurri· cane I The South lhmd Cyclone, the Notre Dame football squad, hit \Vest Point this afternoon and blew the Army eleven right off the reservation. 'rhe team that must face 1a,he Navy three weeks from to-day was beaten 28 to 0, and badly beaten. The Army made only one first down, com· pletcd only one forward ·pass, was out·kicked and out­tricked ·from start to finish and in general made to look like a schoolboy aggregation by the Hoosier Hustlers. 
Outside of the first quarter, the cadets, playing on their own field before a crowd of 5,000, never had a chance. They struggled gamely, hut they couldn't match wits with the smooth gentlemen from Indiana. They protested that the "shift" which started a hullling hluff at a criss-cross, then de\·eloped into a fon\•ard pass, by which Notre Dame scored three of its four touchdowns, \\'as ille~al. 'rhe officials couldn't see anything wrong and allowed the play. But even had the shift been abandoned \Vest Point couldn't have won, for the Army offense was 'very poor, and the \\'estcrners scored one real, honest-to-goodness touchdown by straight football. 
It's an old maxim of baseball that you can't win without runs, and by the same token you can't win in football without points. 'rhe Notre Dame goal ne\·er was in danger, and while there may be some justice in the contention of :\Iajor Charles D. Daly and other \Vest .Point conches that the Indiana shift starts with men in motion, contrary to the rules, still the Army men must invent some way of scoring for themselves, legal or illegal, before they can expect to take a team like the \Vabash \Vnllopers into camp-to say nothing of the Navy. 
Take it from Bill \\'allacc, Notre Dame student, who came here on the brake beams of passenger trains and by side·door Pullmans so that he might bet his carfare both ways on the game, this South Bend outfit is SO:\IE · 
•team. 1\Iohardt, \Vynnc, Kiley, Gar\·ey, Castner, Eddie Anderson, and ''Hunk'' Anderson-they're all heroes. That's about the way they shone to·dny. with Brother Shaw doing some noble tackling and booting four goals out of four. He's missed just one out of thirty-one tries this yea!, says \Yallace of the brake beams. 
KILEY A PASS EXPERT ,Kiley is the best catcher of forward passes seen around these parts this year. He's tall and slim, all arms and reach. He grabbed a lot from ::t\Iohardt to·day and made touchdowns out of two. He's Captain of the basketball team and second baseman of the baseball team. \\'ynne, who also catches forward passes nnd can g-o through the line, is a hurdler. ''That bird can go the high in 15s, the low in 25!!,'' volunteered \Vallace. He ·was going ''on hir.h'' all this afternoon. ~Iohardt is a fine pass flinger· and a pretty end runner. Castner showed skill in weaving his way through broken fields. He's only a "sub" hack, but he helped a lot to· day. Coughlin was another. ·smart ground gainer, while Garvey and H .. Anderson did deadly tackling and E. An· dcrson was n live wire in reco\·ering fumbled halls. 
(New York Tribune) 
RAY :\IcCARTHY Last year the westerners came east with a player named George GiJ•p, who pro,·ed to be not only a sensation, hut one of the greatest backs ever. seen on the Plains. Gipp has since died. Notre Dame had no back in its lineup to·day who was the equal of that great performer, hut in little Johnny ~Iohnrdt, it exhibited a· fast, shifty hack, who threw forward passes with nccurncy. Seldom, when called upon, did ~Iohardt miss his aim. His pusses did not carry the speed nor the zip that Gipp's did, but they were wonderfully nccurute and thrown with rare judgment. Three of Mohnrdt's passes hurled n distance of 25 yards and more Wl.'re converted into touchdowns. and se,·cral otherR wcut through for long gains. In all, .Mohnrdt threw about 10 passes which were good.for a total of 170 yards. Of course, Mohardt had to have excellent us!<i3tnnce on the receiving end in making these pusses go through, and he ~rot that help from Kiley, Anderson und \V~nne. '!'he rc· ccivers, in fact, deserve fully as much credit .for the sue· cess of these pusses as docs Mohnrdt. Kiley plucked the flying oval with case and grace and \Vynnc showed ex· ('eptional ability not only in handling passe:s, hut in run· nin~ throu;h the line. However, E. Anderson was the boy who aided as much as anyhody in making the forward pass game ·of Notre ·Dame successful. He was down the field like a flash. dc\'crly a<'tin~; the part of the receiver. He ne,·cr did get his hands on the btLll, but he succeeded in his dcshm of ' drawing the Army defense t.:> him and of tlllowin~ his teammates, Kiley nnd. \Vynne, n clear path for receiving the pnss. His deception in this respect was flawless. It must not be thought-that Notre Dame won simply be· cause of its skill in working the forward pass. The wes· tcrners <lisplaycd u fine, well-drilled eleven that outplayed 
the Cadets in all de]mrhncnta. '!'he forwards eha1·ged the 
Army line and opened huge gaps, through which Wynne 
und other backs, but Wynne m particular, drove through 
with tremendous speed und }10\\'el'. On defense those 
same forwarcls were always on the joh. 'rhe Cadets Wl'rl' 
practically powerless to gain throu~h the visiting line. 
'!'hey made only two first downs and hoth of these came 
in the last few minutes of }Jiay. 
Shuw, the well built tackle of the Notre Dame team, 
was the outstanding star on dcfcilse. He knocked the Army 
hacks down with a crush whcnc\·er they attempted to }Jile 
through· his sid£'. He towered over the others like a giant 
and was always in the thick of the fray, smearing the: 
piny almost hc!ore it got started. 
(New ·York American) ­
BY AR'l'HUR ROBINSON Notre Dame comes out of the \Vest Saturday to )Jlay the Army at \Vest Point, and Knutc Hockne, the Notre Dame couch, will turn up the cuffs of his shirt and show that he has nothing in his hands and nothing up his sleeves. He will then prohahly conjure a bowl of gold fish out of the thin air or else come forth with u rabbit wriggling from one hand and the fln.:;s of all nations fluttering from the· other. But it is most likely that he will perform n football trick which hus never heen done in the East he· fore. . '!'he modernists among the football couches arc like magicians in the sense that they arc always resorting to deception on the playing field, but among the modernists there are only a few who dare to explore new football fields of endeavor. Rockne is one of these, and his specialty is the forward pass. _As an undergradute seven or eight years ago Rockne. played end for Notre Dame und constitutecl one·hnlf of what was probably the greatest of all forward passing combinations. The other half was Dorais, who played quarterback. The forward pass was in its infancy then, and between them Rockne and Dorais did more to popularize the play than even the members of the rules committee, who real­ized that some changes in the game were vital. The old school of football coaches frowned upon the play and declined to take· it up seriously.-Then Notre Dame came East, und Rockne and Dorais amazed students of the. game by. the manner in which they used the play. The Army, which had one of the strongest teams herea­bouts, was beaten by the score of 35 to 13. hut largely us the result of that defeat, the Army heat ~he Navy by the score of 22 to 9. Rockne and Dorais opened the eyes of the Army conches, and the Army accepted the sour with the sweet. '!'he Army learned its lesson, and the Army particularly learned how to use the ·forward pu:-;s. Rockne .and Dorais, the cadets found, were excellent teachers, and ~Icrillat and Pritchard, Army quarterback and end, quickly developed into a for· ward passing combination quite as good as the \Y~stcrners. 
(Chicago Herald-Examiner) To·day 20,000 spectators saw Rutgers overwhelmed, 48 to 0, at the Polo Grounds hy Notre Dame, a team of wes· tern giants, who ran with the spcc:d of the north wind and plowecl through the human flesh with the emotion of so many stone-drilling drivers. Rutgers was outclassed. Notre Dame had Castner, a halfback who kicked with his left leg and twice kicked field goals from close to midfield. Once he broke away for a 50-yard run for a touchdown. And so did the other Notrc·Damc hacks-\Vynnc, Coughlin and Desch, a cham· pion hurdler. Mohardt, said to· be the best of Notre Dame'R backs­confined hiR n«:tivities almost. entirely to forward passing. Or perhaps he wus just merciful. At any rate, he limitcJ his runs to less than twenty-five yards when he did run with the hall. 
('r!Je New York Times) 
Notre Dame was expected to display all its old wares. It did not disappoint. The South Bend eleven was good a year ugo with the immortal George Gipp. To·day it had j\lohardt, a worthy successor. It also had \Vynne, Cough­lin, Kiley and a host of others, all of whom shone 1Jril· liantly. It was good uguin to-day, better than e\·cr, if that were possible. 
The Army's attempts to stop the spcedv Hoo!licrs Wt're futile. ~lohardt hurled pusses to Kiley with almost reck· less abandon. The Hoosier end was 11 demon in }licking the hall out of the air. Long passes for 20 to 30 yards followed the lust half and held the spectators breathless. It reminded old timers of the line work of Dorins and Rockne of the Notre Dame eleven of 191:1. It was truly a wonderful eleven whi1·h Rockne brought here to-day, pow­erful on attl!.ck and mighty in its defensive. 
BY RING W. I~ARDNER New York, Oct.-The -ninth game will be played at the Polo Grounds between Rutgers and Notre Dame. This was decided last night at n meeting of Judge Landis and the presidents or tlt~ ri\·nl leagues. who have hcen in (·hargc of the series since Ruth got hurt. 




