^^^:<^^-'^--::C'^<:-\>^::::M 
ameMcbolastic 
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS"VIVE-QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS 
VOL. LI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER I, 1917-No. 10. 
Well Done. 

BY C. t,. 
yO-DAY the boys are laurelled With glories richly won. In east and west they gave their best, And now the fighting's done_ We tell them to their face we're proud Of every mother's son. " 
But while we greet these heroes, Let's lift another "toast To the football men who left us ^ To join a greater- host. The team whose line across-the land . Reaches from coast to coast. 
Here's hoping they come.-back to us, Bvery mother's son,-, -". -• .Once^more_when.p.eacel,returns.to earth To silence every gun; But come or stay on that glad day. Soldiers, we cry, "Well done!" 
The Season of 1917. 
CHARLES W. CALL. 

^ 1 Si^OU boys keep coming out and prac­%.,,X ticing, and we'll fool some of these wise ones before the season is over." 
That's what Coach Harper told his men one rainy day in September when things looked particularly dismal for the Gold and Blue. A heavy and foreboding schedtde stretched out ahead and the team for the moment seemed to be disheartened by the gloomy outlook. 
Much has ,been written about the character-of the teams of this wartime season. "Athletics are being continued chiefly for the benefit of the 3^outh of the land;" "Many.of the best players have joined the service;" ' 'Not too much emphasis is to be laid upon victory or defeat," this and kindred captions. filled columns in the' daily papers at the inception of the season. But with the playing of early games enthusiasm' and competition became as brisk as ever, and, as in other years, it was pretty much a question, of winning rather than losing with what material a team happened to have. 
, Notre Dame,had given nobly of her, 1916 squad to'Uncle Sam-. Of the players eligible for further "competition BergmaJh, Fitzpatrick, Murphy, Slackford, Mclnerhy, ,Grant,_ O'Hara, Meagher, Elasper, and Coughlin had joined the colors.. Not one was on hand, when practice opened on September 15th. 
Coaches Harper arid Rockne made no attempt 
to "alibi" for their scant; material; they.; 
simply announced they would get along some 
way with what men would show up, arid then 
they started to work. 
" Kalamazoo proved unusually feeble in the 
opening game of the season and Notre Dame 
had no difficulty in running-up 55 points while 
holding the Michiganders scoreless. Then came 
the trip to Wisconsin. Eighteen of the twenty-
six men transported to Madison were represent­
ing Notre Dame for the first, time. The heavy 
Badgers were fought to a standstill and the 
teams left the field without a score being made. 
The same powerful defense for which Notre 
Dame has long been noted was working well, 
but the offensive power had not developed. 
At Lincoln, Nebraska, on the following 
Saturday Notre Dame ran into a team of 
veterans, a team that was not only as good- as 
the Comhusker-team of 1916 but one that was 
immeasurably better. The-Gold and Blue 
fought vaHantly but could not score. The 
•only touchdown of the season scored against 
Notre Dame came in this game, and the western 
team won by a margin of seven points. 
Back on Cartier field after two scoreless, 
games Notre Dame pounced upon the South 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Dakota Coyotes and ran over and around them for a total of forty points. It was evident that the patient work of the coaches was having an effect, and for the first time during the season Notre Dame looked like a scoring machine. 
Then the Army loomed up ahead the following Saturda}'. Capt. Phelan had been called to the war and the cause seemed nearl}^ hopeless. Some guessed the score would be as high as 40 to o against Notre Dame. Others hoped for a closer defeat. What happened? " Tex" Allison simph­jumped into the place made vacant by the leaving of Phelan, jockeyed the team through three quarters of the game, hoarding the players' strength for' a supreme effort if the With half the backfield that beat the Army unavailable it did seem a little dubious for the representatives of the West. But Harper shoved Bahan and Pearson into the breach left b}- the injuries to Allison and Gipp. The Army game tactics were eschewed, though once more Notre Dame, played with the hope that when the telling "break" would come she would be able to rally just enough strength to score. The chance came in the third quarter. Foiled at gaining through the line, and having no one to forward pass accurately. Brandy, hero of the Army game, booted a placement goal from the 45 yard line. Notre Dame pla3'ed strictly on the defensive during the rest of the game, and 
f^-'L •-:?% ,>^' 
<^*^'^S2!^^-' M^ 
:'.•;,-.'/.^•.tv.-..!!;^;" 
THE 1917 

hoped for "break" appeared, and then when the opportunity did show up he uncorked a couple of forward passes, and with the ball on the seven 3'ard line sent the hitherto unknown Brandy straight through for the only touchdown of the game. The Army could only score a safety following the blocking of a Notre Dame punt. The East woke up to^ the fact that Notre Dame after all was one of the really great teams of the year, and that Coach Harper was just as resourceful as ever. 
Morningside and M. A. C. proved com­parativel}'-eas}'' victories for the Gold and Blue, but the loss of Gipp in the former game and Allison and Stanley in the latter was a heavy price to pay for such hollow gains. 
Critics, not having learned their lesson at West Point on November 3rd, shook their heads when Notre Dame prepared to face the renowned W. & J. team on November' 24th. 
 SQUAD. 
the curtain rang down on the 1917 season a few minutes later. 
Those six victories, one defeat, and one tie game, constitute the most enviable record Notre Dame has made since 1913. Notre Dame made this record because her men were fighters, because neither coaches nor pla3^ers would concede defeat before a game was pla3^ed. They had faith in themselves and their faith gained them much. Team work stood out as a conspicuous quant3'- of the team. Personalities were smothered, and no one man let his own gain mean more to him than the good of the team. 
A typical example of the spirit of the men occurred in the Notre Dame car that was to bring the victorious Gold and Blue back from Washington & Jefferson. Some one started to compHment Joe Brandy, scorer of all the Notre Dame points made in the East, this season, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
on his beautiful placement kick of the afternoon. He blushed and cut the speaker short by insist­ing that Bahan had held the ball so perfectly that anyone could have kicked the goal. Bahan was present and disclaimed an}^ credit by insist­ing that Madigan had passed the ball so ac­curately that he did not have to move it six inches for Brandy. Madigan claimed the line held so well that the passing and placing before the kick was mere child's play. Any one of these fellows could have "nominated" him­self a hero, and such was the high calibre of his play that no one would have disputed him. 
Enough praise can not be centered upon the Notre Dame coaching staff for the part it played in making Notre Dame one of the rem.arkable teams of the year. In other years Harper and Rockne have had to stand the jibe that most anyone could develop a team from the squad of men of " boilermaker" proportions with which they had been blessed. This 3^ear things were different. At the height of its success the Notre Dame team averaged 166 pounds per man, and the backfield could not muster more than 14S pounds a person. The Gold and Blue football teaching staff could fashion a gridiron team from the remnants of a county infirmary. 
Truthful James Up to Date. 
BY P. ED. O METER. 
\A/HICH I wish j^ou'd get hep To a fact that's quite plain: That for punch and for pep When there's need of a gain, Our feather-weight half-back's a hummer Which the same any kid can explain. 
Yes; Joe Brandy's his name, 
And I shall not deny 
In regard to the same 
That it sure fits the guy,— 
At least the rear-end of it. Brandy, 
Though the Joe-end of course is awry. 
For there's no name but one That has just the true ring To express what he's done: And we herewith unsling The word that should go before Brandy, And the same, if you get me, is Byng. 


The Coaches. 

Automobile salesmen make much of the fact that their cars should be judged on past records. Any car looks good enough in the beginning to sell itself, they argue, but the car the public will eventually support is the one that proves itself over a span of years. Reliability and durability appear to be even more precious qualities than mere ability. This is true of a man as well as of a machine. 
Jesse C. Harper is a man with a record. One-half a decade of achievement at Notre Dame 
JESSE C. HARPER. 

lies behind him, but he had spent twent)'-nine years before coming to us preparing himself > for his task. After finishing his preparatory school work at Morgan Park Academy he entered the University of Chicago in 1902. Handicapped by lack of weight, Harper did not make the football team until his senior year when he played end and halfback on the championship team that defeated Michigan 
2 ^o o. He was a member of the baseball team three successive seasons, working behind the bat and in the outfield. His last athletic feat for the Maroon team was to wallop out a three, bagger in his final time at bat'in his senior year against Illinois. 
Harper's first coaching experience came in 1906 when he took charge of athletics at Alma College, [Michigan. He remained there three years, and won the intercollegiate championship of the Wolverine State in 1908. 

Ti-IE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Then he went to Wabash College. There he won State championships with his basketball and baseball teams and secondar}'- champion­ships with his football team. 
Since coming to Notre Dame he has placed football on a plane with the best teams both in the East and in the West. He jumped into national prominence his 'first year when in 1913 he defeated the Army, Penn State and Texas. That team captained by Knute Rockne was at once the wonder of the athletic world. Much is heard to this day of that immortal Dorias-Rockne forward passing combination that startled every team it met. 
But Notre Dame had wonderful material 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE. 
1 
in those days. Harper inherited a coterie of 
finished football players/ and that gave critics 
material from which to predict his failure after 
the first "flash in the pan." With the Yale 
catastrophe and the Arm}'' reversal the following 
3''ear the "I told you so " parade lengthened out. 
Harper offered not a word in rebuttal. He simply 
kept on with his work and before the season was 
over had his team faced about and it scored 
decisive victories against Carlisle and S5T:acuse. 
Aside from one point, a defeat at Nebraska, 

due to the failure to.kick a. goal following a ^touchdown, Harper and his men bowled over . everything in 1915. The Army and Texas were again Adctims. In 1916 the Army succeeded in beating the Gold and Blue, but M. A. C. and 
Nebraska were defeated.. 
.When Harper arranged the 1917 schedule 
months in advance of the declaration of war 
on the part of this country he was congratulat­
ing himself on his good fortune at having 
sufficient football material in sight for unbeatable 
teams for at least' two years. Consequently he was not a bit careful about the calibre of the teams he chose for this year's eleven to meet. Enough good men to make a first-class football team were lieutenants in the national army before^ the season opened, and when practice did start there were not a half dozen veterans of any description from the year before. Harper did not complain. He merely went to work. Though the defensive strength of his team developed quickly its offense had not material­ized b}'' the Wisconsin and Nebraska games. Captain Phelan was called to the Army with the playing of the Cornhusker game. 

No one conceded his team a chance in the universe to^ defeat, the future Army officers at West Point. .But that's what it did. Between the Nebraska game and the'Army game he had perfected a forward pass attack that could not be denied. Following the .Army game he lost Gipp and Allison in succession, and one-half the backfield with which he had beaten the soldiers was interned in hospitals. Even sym­pathizers shook their heads as the Notre Dame tutor departed with his depleted flock for the game with Washington and Jefferson. The team that had' battled Pitt, the greatest eleven of the 5''ear, almost to_ a standstill would anni­hilate the light eleven once more representing the West. W. and J. did nothing of the sort. The teams proved, most evenly matched, but Notre Dame proved itself the better coached team and won by a small margin. 
Harper has ever been progressive since coming to Notre Dame. He innovated the three-year eligibility rule, has advocated and co-operated with the faculty in obtaining a high grade of scholarship, has shown himself relentless in enforcing all rules of amateurism. He has countenanced nothing but the highest grade of sportsmanship. 
Harper showed exceptional judgment early in his career as a coach for the Gold and Blue. That was when he "took unto himself" Knute Rockne, an assistant who has' done much for him. What Harper thinks of Rockne and what Rockne thinks of Harper is too affectionate for space here. 
Harper was a great man in 1913 when he flashed across the athletic horizon with an un­beatable team of veteraiis; he was a far grea.ter man during 1917 when he moulded a team from the greenest of material and battered his way through the heaviest schedule in the history of Notre Dame with just one defeat. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Members of the Squad 
BY CHARLES W." CALL. 
CAPTAIN JAMES PHELAN.' 

Captain "Jim" was permitted to lead the 1917 teain in only three games before Uncle Sam dressed him in khaki. But in those three 
•games—against Kalamazoo, ' Wisconsin, and Nebraska—^he showed a generalship that Byng might envy. Working with men most of whom were playing their first games of intercollegiate football, he furnished the head-work and the encourage­
. ment which the team so badl)'- needed. At Madison he did the punting and was an important factor in off­setting the long kicks of Simpson whose toe threat­ened throughout the contest to humble the Gold and Blue. Immediately after the Nebraska gaihe Phelan had. to hurry to Camp "Taylor as 
CAPTAIN 

a member of the draft quota of St. Joseph Count3^ "Jim" has played his last game for ^ Notre Dame; he is already-engaged at Louisville in getting ready for the much bigger game at the front in Flanders. 
FR-'VNK RYDZEWSKI. ^ 

"Big Frank" was the champion notoriety gatherer of the team. Sporting writers warned about him, looked at him, then "raved "through columns over him. And the best part of the pro­ceedings was that Frank deserved every bit of praise that he received. Without a doubt this last season he was so far the better of any man he faced that "there was 'no comparison. -No one could stop-him, and the-combined attention 
of two or three men "playing" him in- cer­tain games, only served to bother him. Frank'^ never failed to feed the ball with the utmost ac­curacy to .the backs r on the various shift-plays and befuddUng forma­tions for which Notre 
-:^ Dame is famous. Ryd-RYDzEwsKi zewski stopped, many 

an opposing rally. by intercepting forward passes. His great height and shiftiness-made it almost impossible for an alienr-back" to shoot a pass over his head. He acted-as "captain in several. games after the departure of Phelan. This season closed his, football career "at -Notre Dame. • • x ' ".; 
DAVE PHILBIN. ' • ;.': ,• 

Right tackle on the. line was puncture proof throughout the schedule, for the reason, to witj that Dave Philbin was fighting over there. Intercollegiate football is now a closed book for Dave. With his one year at the University of Oregon and two at Notre Dame,- his record will' stand ready com­parison with that of any of the great men who have gone before him. He has been the kind of. • unassuming, silent, good-natured, .fighter that a school hates, to .part with. No man.on the .team l\ is more genuinely respected-by his teammates or fellow 
 PHELAN 
students than the big Ore­gonian. Notre Dame will miss his- terrific charging and blocking, his deadly tackling and hjs good-fellowship. . . " , ., 
FRANK ANDREWS. -' : 

Andrews played the tackle that Philbin" didn't, which means that left tackle also • was well administered this year. "Bodie" was unfortunate in ha\'ing his shoulder badly biruised on two or three occasions, and as a consequence he did not really reach his top form until the game with the Army. • In that and in the", following battles he fought like a tiger. Always confident, aggressive,. reHable, he is a mail that would be noticeable on "any team. It is a comfort'to know that hehas another year of eligibiHty. ' . '',•'-­
THOMAS KING. . / _ . , Tom -King's intercollegiate football ' career is complete.. 'It is a stoiy of the success achieved by a determination that cannot be discouraged. Two years ago ;wheh he first appeared on Cartier Field he seemed, phy­sically too insignificant ANDREWS 
ever to make the Var-
sit}?-. It soon became 
apparent, however, 
that he was a fighter 
to the finish, that he 
was out for recognition, 
and that he meant to 
get it. For two )'^ears 
he kept trjdng for the 
team, but only getting 
into a game now and 
' '^M^'then when something 
happened to one of 
PHILBIN 
the regular ends. This 3'ear he won his place as a regular. With the war cloud hanging close to his head, he developed wonderful defensive ability on the right extremit}'- of the Notre Dame line. AlwaA'^s fast on covering punts, he improved wonderfully in catch­ing forward passes. He is captain-elect of the basketball team, but he is under the impression that Uncle Sam will need liis services before the winter season opens. 
DAVID HAYES 
"Dave" Hayes has but one creed when he is on the gridiron— and thaf is fight. Determined, relentless, fearless, untiring, he fought to-a standstill ever}'- man he faced this season. While, he possibly lacked the experience and 

HAYES 
finesse,of King, the two formed a 
combination on the extremes of the line that was reliable rather than spectacular. Hayes improved from game to game under the tutelage of Notre Dame's great 1913 captain until in the later games of the season Dave was an extremely crafty end man. Hayes probably made more good tackles, and effectively blocked tnore men, and received less recognition for his fine work than any man on the team. But that bothers Dave not a bit. When it comes to humilit}'-, saints could not, improve on his unassuming disposition. He takes his reward in the pleasure of knowing he did his work well, 
and  his reward  is  ample.  This  was  his  first  
year on^ the ;team. 
p  Tf 7 
J 
Zoia  hung  around  Notre  Dame  until  the 

beginning of his third year before he announced  his Varsit)'- aspirations. After a poor start,  due to some minor injuries more than anything  else, Zoia made good with a vengeance. Called  upon to face meii who weighed on an average  over 200 pounds, the Woodstock wonder always  gave more than he received at left guard,  Zoia is a speed demon for a man weighing 170  pounds, and the sj)eed and frequenc}'- with which  he broke through the opposing line to tackle  the man carrying the ball brought him into  prominence. There is one severe criticism of  Zoia, however, that could not be omitted in a  review of his • plajdng this jeox and that is to  charge him with criminal negligence for not  having tried for the team before this year. 

EDWARD MADIGAN. 
Madigan was promoted in mid-, season from the position of sub­stitute center for "Big Frank" to that of regular right guard. Madigan typifies probably better than an)'- other man on the team "the fight'n' Irish" spirit that provoked so much comment among Eastern sport-writers. "Slip" can think and fight with such lightning­like speed that Harper simply could no longer select a line-up and leave him out. Madigan proved his versatility in the W and J game. First replacing De-Gree, then R^'-dzewski, he played throughout the game an uncom­
plaining and unproclaimed hero 

for the Gold and, Blue. Without him the  Notre Dame attack would have been paratyzed  He has another year of competition. 
LEONARD BAHAN. 

In civilian clothes Bahan is about the last man in the school a critic would choose for 
football  material.  Re­ 
served,  quiet,  almost  
bashful,  nothing  sug­ 

 gests that he might be a potential pigskin ar­ tist of the highest type, 
^^ ^^^ noticed Bahan  before the Kalamazoo  game. In the latter  half of that struggle KING with the Celery City institution his long end runs from half­backimmediatelypro­claimed him as a star in the making, Though he played doggedly against Wis­consin and Nebraska" 
he received such a battering in those two games that he was incapacitated for nearly a whole month. Coach Harper used him alternately at 

ZOIA halfback and quarter­back in practice It is well that he did. With Allison out of the game with an injured vertebra, Bahan piloted the team through the W. and J. contest with all the acumen of a^ veteran. His judgment was ex­cellent and his strategy clever. For two. more seasons Notre Dame will be blessed with his presence. ' 
JOSEPH BRANDY. 

"Too much" seemed more appropriate than "Joe" to the Army and Washington and Jef­ferson teams following Notre Dame's two invasions of the Hast. It is more or less of a  C. game. A yertebra was injured in such a  manner that though it were possibler for ^him  to play in the W and J game it would have  been foolhardy. Allison has more mental than  physical attributes on the football field. He has  an athletic mind after his years on the baseball  diamond, and it was next to natural for him to  step into the quarterback position after Phelan  left and run the team successfully. His peculiar accent added spice to the already singular Notre Dame attack, and he had the future* Army officers at West Point "all fussed" with his "Hip! Hip!" repeated a little differently each time. He was the most accurate forward passer on the team, and he would shoot the ball to the ends and the backs like a bullet. His greatest asset was confidence—^he knew he was going to beat the Army. 
GEORGE GIPP. 
After having reported for the team late in September and being out of the. first two games, big George Gipp was just getting back to his 1916 freshman form when he met with the regret­table accident which broke his leg in the Momingside game at Sioux City. Gipp was not at his best in the Nebraska game following his first week of training, but against South Dakota he played brilliantly. Then at West Point he distinguished himself by long end runs, forward passes, and 

distinction to have scored the only points for Notre Dame in the East in 1917— the points that won two games. Brandy made the best use imaginable of his 137 pounds, He blossomed out as a punter in the M. A. C. game, only ,to surprise everybody by kicking the winning field goal in the last contest of the season. Brandy and Bahan were the modern Siamese twins of the Notre Dame eleven. Their playing was much alike, and so are their dis­positions. Brandy is so shy that he sports the most resplendent blush on the slightest pro­
vocation.  This  was  his  first  Varsity compe­ 
tition.  
WIIVLIAM' ALLISON.  

"Tangoing Tex," disconcerter of the Army, South Dakota and-Mbrningside, had his season cut short by a peculiar injury during the M. A. 
MADIGAN 

vicious taddes. He was the man.  more than any other, accountable for the ball's  being placed at that  vantage point seven  yards from the Army  goal, from where  Brandy ploughed  through the soldiers  for a touchdown at  the opening of the  fourth quarter. All  wish George a speedy  and Complete recov­
ery from his serious injury. 
WALTER MILLER. '^ 
Halfback, fullback, halfback, fullback!! BAHAIJ Ihat is about as fast as Walter Miller had to alternate between two positions this fall. Wherever he was sta­tioned, however, he gave the best that was in him. He im­proved Avith great strides as a line plun­ger, and his tackling 
was one of the strong points in the scond­ar}' defense of Notre Dame. He punted for 
the team 
BR.A.NDY 
occa'^ioijs work in the W. and J 
game in particular was noteworthy. He out-distanced the renowned Mc-Creight so that Notre Dame gained on. every exchange of punts. Miller is not as heaA'^' as some of the full­backs that have gone before him, but he has the fight and the knowl­edge, and they were enough during the present year. He will be eligible next year. 
DUDLEY PEARSON. 
Pearson does not let his good looks interfere Avith liis football pla3nng. He had a bit of hard luck at different times in the sea­son, but his brilliant finale in the crucial contest with W. and J. more than repaid him for his hard work daring the season. A smashed 
 on several and his 

GIPP 
shoulder in the South-Dakota game prevented him from getting into the game for several weeks. -He is-a fine open field runner and has as good success as any one in line boring. "Dud" is, a-Sophomore. 
ROBERT MCGUIRE. 
"Bob", is-the tj'pe of pla3''er that the Notre Dame coadhes like to meet. He appeared for pre-seasoh .practice in the right state of mind, Avilling, .-anxious', and industrious. The ex-Walsh \Ball .'star ithbibed a great man3'^ of the fine points df;the:.gridiron game this fall, and he improved ais rapidly, as any of his teammates as the season progressed. He pla3'^ed tackle in' place of Andrews in a few games, and he never failed to hold his own when given a chance. He had the physique and the disposition that go to niake up a great pla3^er, and by the time another season rolls around he no doubt Avill be a star. He has two more 3^earsto'.prgLy.. 

RALEIGH STINE. 

"Red" waited for a long time an opportunity to show what a football pla5-er he is under fire. After playing in a game here and there during the early season he got his first big chance  against W and J. After DeGree and Rydzewski  had left the gaine Harper sent liim in at right  guard though he had practiced at tackle most  of the year.' He fought like a wildman and the  Easterners soon found out that there was not the  semblance of a weak spot in the center of the 
Notre Dame line because two of its giants had been removed. "Red," like "Bob" McGuire, ^Ya.s an apt pupil at football all season and he improved greatl)'-. The two are the best kind of niaterial for 1918. Stine's eligibility has two more years to run. 
WALTER DEGREE. Notre Dame's punter of 1916 never reached his top form at an}?- time this season. The Wednes­da);- folloAviug the first game of the year with Kalamazoo, DeGree was -unfortunate enough to have his right knee severely wrenched. He did not attempt to play until the Morningside game, but he did 

E^feMi: 
not last long in that contest. 

After another Ions: rest he started  the game against W.  and J. only to slip 
on the snow-covered field on the first form­ation following the kic^Toff anid fender himself useless for the 
final game. He pla3'-­ ed less than an hour  during the entire sea­ son. He has another  year left to play, 
 -DASIL OTANLEY.  For all-around scrap­ piness Stanley cannot 
AXWSON 




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
'•52> 
be beaten. Lighter b}'- far than the rest of line aspirants, he kept fighting and im­proving until he liter­ally forced himself in­to the recognition of the coaches. If there was any fault to find with Stanley's work it was his over-anxiousness. He was so aggressive at times that he could not re­strain himself. After having received his 

jriLLER rudimentar}^ football at Wabash he quickly adapted himself to the Notre Dame style of play, and had he not been unfortunate enough to have his leg broken when he was commencing to be of great value to the team his record would have been even greater than it is. 
THOMAS SPALDING. 

This distinctive Kentuckian was so good an end throughout the season that it seemed un­fortunate that he was forced to compete with such capable and non-injurable ends as King and Hayes. Spalding, like Zoia, was eligible for the Varsity in former 3^ears but never tried for the team. He played a hard and heady game throughout this season, but on account of the puncture-proof qualities of the regular extremity men he got but little chance to show his real worth.- Spalding's tackling was his strong point, 
though he drew on his baseball ability to good advantage in handling the forward pass. He is ineligible for further" football competition on ac­count of his two years on the Varsity nine. 
MAURICE SMITH. 
Plowing,^ stenogra­phy, knitting are dif­ficult in the beginning and so is football. Smith was never clothed in a gridiron 
MCGUIRE suit previous to this 

year. Pie did not appear until late a-?-a candidate for the team, and for the first few afternoons tried for an end po­sition. Immediately after Harper shifted him to halfback he gave promise of de­veloping into an of­fensive star. He did his" best work, how­ever, in the M. A. C. game at fullback, to which position he was shifted when Walter PHARSOX 
Miller was unable to play. Smith was a most reliable man on defense, and his tackling was of the "your down" type. He will be pla^ang for Notre Dame in 1918 and 1919. 
•JAMES RYAN. 

"Big Red" R3^au was sub-fullback on the team all season. He found some difficulty adapting himself to the shifty style of Notre Dame football in the beginning, but in common with the rest of the newcomers developed rapidly with the progress of the season. Ryan is a hard and conscientious worker, and though he still has a lot of football to master he is distinctively a comer, and is a much better player for the season just past. He will be eligible for the team for two more seasons. 
As in all lines of endeavor, so in football some men though fighting ever}- bit as hard as their fellow-men are destined not to make such brilliant show­ings. , But persever­ance, determination, that"i;ilgive-all-I've­got-arfyway" spirit is 
• what makes men great after all, and because one football man does not' reach the same measure of success as another football man is no in­dication that he lacks qualities that will go for success in the larger things of life. STIXE 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Powers had to learn football from the ground up this fall, that is, he had onlv a meagre knowledge of the game as it is played in intercolle­giate circles. He worked hard, hoAV­ever, and by mid-season was rated as the best sub-end after Tom S p a 1 d i ng. Though he sho"wed up well in practice, things did not shape 
DE GREE themselves so he could play in many scheduled games. He exhibited a lot of stick-to-it-iveness and will be a hand}'- man to have around next 3'^ear. This was his first year. 
"'Abie' and 'Gineral' are all right, but cut out this 'diminutive' stufi"," ordered I^ockard one day to a newspaper correspondent. Frank isn't exactty a dwarf, yet he's built low, and very naturally a trite adjective hke "diminu­tive" was bound to be applied to him. I^ockard got but few chances to show his worth under fire, but the way he ran the team in the fourth quarter of the ISI. A. C. contest proved be3'^ond a doubt that he will be a moSt valuable man for 

" Notre Dame a year from now. He has not had much opportunit}?^ to tr}'^ his forward pass, but it is the general comment on the gridiron that he "throws it" well. Lockard, like Barry, is an old-timer at Notre Dame. He has seen a lot of 
Gold and Blue foot­ball from the side­lines, and with the passing of another twelve months.lie is going to execute a lot of it between the sidelines. He has two years more to play. 
Barr)'', the ex-pro­tege of Brother Gaje­tan showed a "lot of stuff'' during his first year of eligibility for. the Varsity. His work at halfback command­ed the attention of the ' 

SPA^JLDI^"G coaches, and though 

his opportunities in 
scheduled games were 
few, he nevertheless 
gave a might}^ good 
account of himself 
when the chance was 
afforded him. His 
great speed enabled 
him to make several 
long gains against the 
Michigan '' Aggies'' 
and on one sprint he 
circled right end for 
fifty yards and-a-
touchdown. This w^as 
not Barry's year, but 
ST.J\NI.EY 

it is coming. 
Ronchetti tried hard to become a . fullback because the team needed one at the beginning of the season, but after the first game Coach Harper decided to shift him to guard. There he acted as substitute in all the important games of the 3^ear. "Pete" is a good plugger, always faithful and read}^ to give everything he has for the team. For a big man he is unu­sually shifty on his feet, and he played a good consistent game at guard whenever the chance afforded. He has completed his years of eligibilit)'^ in football, but he is out already and hard at -work with the basketball team. He will be a strong man in that sport this Avinter. 
To Holton, Kelly, Andres, Morgan and others, great credit is due for their part in making this j'-ear's eleven what it was. Regular and con­sistent workers, they .practiced every day with their teams and their fine spirit of willingness to render any service they could is deserv­ing of high praise. They -will be in the old fight "when the next season opens: 
Take it all in all, it was a great team, and- its fiiie achieve­ments this season show - forcibly the superior value of a s m o d t h w o i: k i n g machine over mere weight, especially whe nthe dynamo that turns the;wheel is the Notre Paine spirit. RYAN 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
155 


Vti^t for il^t Uarsitp 
The Old Second String. 
Go on, yell your head off, and sing. 
They're deserving the best we can bring; And I have a hunch There's one other bunch 
As worthy—the old "second string." . ' . T. D. M. 
To the Team. Home From the Army Game. 
YOU played the game, and played it well.  captured the station a thousand strong 
WE 
You tried to make 3'our team the best With the roaring of cheers and the " Victory-That ever fought for the Gold and' Blue ' song; On glory-fields from Esist to AVcst. Their train pushing in needed never a light, -, You gave your courage, strength and will. A volcano of red-fire flared up in the night. To guard the honor, spread the fame. Rockets showered the engine whose whistle and bell . Make jubilant the hearts of all Were all lost in an ear-smashing " U. N. D." yell. The happy sons of Notre Dame. , 
As the heroes climbed down it was wth consternation. They found themselves caught in a monstrous ovation; Great teams, like yours have come and gone. 
Then behind the brass band and the snake-dancing The shadow of their greatness lies 
throng -' Across the fields where once they played. 

Th& glorified team rode amid the hoarse song But now beneath high foreign skies "^ Of the mob always eager to cheer and adore. 
And in strange meadows far from home. 

And especially ready to count up that score. *^ 
Where Death- has spread a sovereign spell, ' 

• : ' _ . V. F. FJ ­
Their blood "has helped ' redeem the soil,— 

'• ' " '• ^ ,. 
They too have played'the game, and well.,-That W. and J. Victory. 
W C. H. 
'HEN some scribe will tell the story. 
W 
Of our Fighting Irish glory ' ,
The Phantom Team. 

And the great things that our football team accom­plished all the way, -.
r^N E night, I dreamed I went He may tell in language polished • t -" ' Out to the field, pitch dark. 
Of the hopes N. D. demolished, . ;On some vague errand bent. 

But I am gleeful just because N. D. beat W. and J. 
I neared the gate, buti—hark! You may shout in admiration What whistle shrills at night? At the way our aggregation ' , 
Who is it pants and strains? Held the prize stock of Nebraska in a fiercely fought I peer! The brief moonhght 
melee, * -. . ' _, •. Shows all before it wanes. ­
But let me tell you,-brother, . x . . . 
If they had not jvon another,', . '"; "> 
, The secret I have found: They'd have gained my staunch fidelity by beating 

' AVho taught the team to fight? 
W. and J. . . i /. 
The phantom players downed 

^ ' ~ '-."-•• 
"The varsity "that night! Then, of course. West Point .was battered,. 5 ­And their vaunted power shattered, T.. ^ .• 
• Heroes of long gone by. By stopping.Elmer Oliphant in a most .decided way. 
In spirit they were back Why, say,-^this N.D . spirit, ; • -, To teach the varsity 
-There's nothing that c~6mes, near _it, ,. .,. ..;. 
•; Theirgrit and their attack. 

And I can shout, and shout again, that we-beat­
y
' • • '.--., -. • . V. F. F. 

, W. and J. , . - ., . , J.T.J. 
The Freshman Team. 
BY ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, '20. 
The__dishearteniug prospects of next ^'•ear's Varsity, due to the response of Notre Dame's gridiron knights to the nation's war call and the loss of Rydzewski by graduation, is totally eclipsed by the classy squad of yearlings whose 
. heady playing brought smiles of contentment to Harper and Rockne this year. We have Capt. Donovan, former St. John meteor, "Dutch" Wrape, Vohs, Doole)^ and Murphy to head_the blue ribbon entries. In addition, there is a host of other gfidders, who, after a season's 
grilHng under Jake KHne, have the, essential requisites for a suc­cessful team next year. 
The aU-Fresh team this year, although not overwhelmed with its usual quota of yearling stars, was, according to critics, the equal of any former freshman team, not excluding tlie wonderful squads which produced Cofall, Miller, Cal­lahan, Mclnerne}'- and recent pig­skin immortals. Pitted against the Varsit}' three times a week, they bore the brunt with exceptional rigor and were never beaten b}'­more than fifteen points. Before the regular schedule opened Kline's proteges held the.Varsity to a 12 to o. score in a game that was the equal of any sfeen here during 
 developed 

First Year Aggies 7 to o. M. A. C. put up her usual warlike front and was fortunate in hold­ing Donovan, Doole)'-, Murphy and Wrape, et al, to a lone ringer. What the M. A. C. tilt demonstrated at each consecutive play is that 
\>^he Miles and Wrape end combination can fill the wing boots of an}'- college eleven with exceptional credit. 
The University of Michigan stellar backfield, aided b}'-a line outweighing our boi'^s twenty pounds to the^man, succeeded in getting on the long end of a 19 to 3 score. The Michigan Freshmen concentrated their football knowledge in the first half when they gathered their only points. But the second chapter wasn't exactlj'­a sequel. The N. D. Freshmen braced and out­
played their rivals in ever}'- depart­ment of the game. Hogan dropped a daisy from the 38-yard line and Donovan was leading a charge to a touchdoAvn when the whistle put an end to the scoring. 
At ends Miles and Wrape worked 
-V&^^^i consistently, both being equalty f;,^'^^:^-, good at receiving forward lunges '^"H^i;| ^^^ getting . down under punts. 
'^S^SS^ These lads show every' indication 
- \TS?»; of looming up strong for the Varsit}^ 
!| wing jobs and'under the line tute­lage of Rockne should develop into a class with the famous mentor himself. Hoar played a good game as an end insert. 
season. Capt. Donovan, Doole)'- and Murphy provided the spine thrillers for the side-liners by puUing off a _ string of spectacular eye­openers. ­
Capt. Donovan led his squad against Culver for the Freshmen" s first scheduled game and the soldiers were downed in a 13 to 7 go, Hogan and Donovan scoring the markers. The red-topped captain pla3'-ed his usual driving game and was ably assisted'b}'- the remarkably de­fensive tactics of Vohs, Wrape, Dooley and Murph)''. The men were apparently off form, due to injuries received in stopping the plunges of W. Miller, Bahan and Brandy during the Cartier scrimmage programs, and were defeated by the strong Kalamazoo. Normal team, but the defeat;only inculcated a fighting, determination to pull off .future thrillers. 
At M. A. C. the Freshmen tramped over the Vohs is, perhaps, the hardest tackier ever seen in Nofre Dame Freshman annals. He is a bear on the defense and opens up regular boulevards for the backfield. He is the surest bet for a Varsity tackle, position next year. O'Connor was one of the best, among the tackhng candidates. . ^ 

Murphy and Owens held down the guard position in true yeoman style. Murphy is particularly good on the offense, and.it would not be a surprise to see the big brunette dashing around Cartier Field as a regular in 1918. Owens is a husky with, beef, fight and ability. "Eddie" Dunn played'a hard and consistent game whenever called upon and makes up in fight what he lacks in weight. ^ 
Gooney was a find at the pivotal position. He.passes accurately, and considering his lack of experience at the central cog he did remarkably 
COACH KLINE 
At tackles Bloom and Vohs work­
 the entire 

ed like demons, insisting on being in every play. 
well. He possesses the rare combination of being a sure tackier, a crack offensive player and an all-around footballer. Mersch, the chubby lad from Frankfort, Indiana, played a fine game at sub-center, but lacked a little in rangi­ness which, however, did not hinder his efforts at Ferry Field. ' • 
Hogan, made a good, brainy quarterback. He excels in the kicking department, being a toe artist of no mean ability. Maher replaced him occasionally, and between the two the position Avas well taken care of. 
At left half Capt. Donovan needed no sub­stitute. The sandy-haired lad was elected captain before the Culver game and sus­tained his ability for leadership during the entire season. To begin with he is a Varsit}'' cinch for 1918 by virtue of his all-around experience and football sense. He can pick a hole with pre­cision and has a 42 centimetre drive, in­tercepts forwards for a pastime, is a tower of strength on the de­fense, and surmounts these talents with the necessary, Irish fight. Big tilings can be ex­pected from this husky individual from Massa­chusetts. Ivombardo, 
despite a lack of ex­perience, landed a regular berth at right half 
and put up a consistent, scrappy argument for his position. "Red-" Granfield filled his shoes 
on several occasions. 
Big Dooley at fullback distinguised himself so consistently that a mediocre class of playing was impossible of association with the driving Easterner. I^ike Donovan, he is -an adept at picking his wa}'- through, a line and tears a defense to tatters. His specialty is dragging along upwards of a half dozen tacklers for a few-extra yards. Possible Varsity, backfield men better look to their 'laurels, for Dooley will undoubtedly make a smashing debut into fast company next autumn. 
The season as a whole was. pleasingly suc­cessful.. Although considerable inroads were made upon the available material because of war conditions, and although several injurious handicaps insisted on bobbing up, Kline and his men upheld the honor of Notre Dame wherever they chanced to stop off. Donovan, Dooley, Murphy, Miles, Wrape and Vohs were the best men uncovered during the season; but iii eclipsing the game efforts "of the lesser lights, they did not detract from the glory due to the entire scrappy 1917 all-Fresh Eleven. 
The Interhall Season. 
ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, '20. 

When Walsh and Brownson staged the last scene in the Interhall Classic for 1917; the curtain closed on one of the-most eventful seasons in the history of Interhall- competition-Consistent, snappy,' clever playing'characterized each battle, but as the season progressed it was evident that Walsh had the superior ' team, humbling her rivals in a series of consecutive defeats. Nearly any one of-- the Interhall 
aggregations couldhave acquitted itself in varsity fashion against a good many second­ary college teams; in fact, this very stunt was accomplished sev­eral times dtiring" the season. * ' 
Walsh in 'winning the championship ' is especially deserving of 

FRESHMAN "TE.\M 
victory; for it followed a consistent form of training'^and scrimmage during the entire season. 
FIRST TEAJI SECOND TEAlf 
Kirk, Walsh.: :_....;. L E - White, Corby Miles, Sorin R E Shanahan, Walsh" Flaherty, Walsh L T. ..„„.Baker, Sorin 
V. AValsh, Sorin. R T , McFeeley,. Walsh 
W. Walsh, Corby. L G VanAkeren, Brownson Giblin, Sorin R G.__ Grabner, Corby Whitehead, Walsh.. C...". Blackman, Sorin Mohardt, Brownson ....L H. . Fennesy; Walsh Woods, Walsh. .. .R HL jGalagher, Walsh Babcock, Corby F. /. Billeaud,--Walsh. Mulligan, Sorin Q—_.„........Wheeler, Walsh., 
Jake Kline, Referee . Pete Noonah, Umpire The above men were chosen from the respec-^ five haU lineups at a conference of .their coaches and the referees of the season and therefore, represents-a uniform concensus of choice. ' Kirk a.t left,end was imdoubtedly the most versatile man occupying that position. A fast, man down the field under punts, a dean,'con­sistent tackier and a toe artist of exceptional ability, .the Walshef ptit up' a clever game. 
V 

1.58 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Miles issued the strongest bid for the other wing position, and with Kirk as a running mate a more aggressive combination could not be desired. .Miles has an interference-smashing st^'le that enables him to get the runner with regularity. As the receiver of Mulligan's aerial 

• lunges he'put the Sorin team within reach of many a touchdo\^^l. "Dog" White, Corby's featherweight end, and Shanahan of Walsh are exceptionall}'- qualified to hold down the same positions on the second team. 
At left tackle, Flahert}'- the beefy' Walsh star, was peerless. He w ^ equally brilliant on; the defense and offense, stopping all line smashes on his side and opening wide paths for the Walsh backfield men. Sorin hall con­tributes V. Walsh for the right tackle position, He plays a fearless, heady game, is impenetrable on the defense, and as a mate for Flaherty he eliminated all possible contenders by A'irtue of his all-around ability. Baker of Sorin and McFeeley of Walsh closely rival the first choice for the tackle jobs and are placed on the second team. " • • , 
W. Walsh playing left guard, for the-Corby 

 Both Mulligan and Wheeler ran their teams  with sterling generalship and were equally  adept at lurrling the oval with big league pre­ cision. Mulligan, how.ever, had a shade on  Wheeler ,in advancing the ball particularly  around end, the varsit};-. track captain and  erstAvliile fast, ten-second man displaying. his  mercurial prowess on ever}'- drive. Wheeler  on the other haxid has the ability to run his  team smoothly and to get the plays away fast,  Both men, however, are excellent subjects for  pigskin tutelage. The coaches placed Mulligan  at the helm of the first team and Wheeler is  signal caller for the second squad, 
 Mohardt, a husk}'', from Chicago, was the  big gun in ever}'; Brownson tournament, starring  against every defence, he opposed the entire  season^ He has a driving plunge that makes  ever}- dash good for a big gain. We can readily  concede big things for the Brownsonite under  proper coaching. Concerning his sterling foot­ ball ability nothing can be said that would be  an exaggeration. Mohardt is placed at left  ..half.. For tliie .position at right half a galaxy of  backfield men are available, ".Joe" Woods of 
squad made a splendid showing-in ever}''battle . Walsh >Hall who-although somewhat .^ light is he entered. . At right guard ''Vine" Giblin extremely .fast, a sure tackier and a bear of was a unanimous choice. Both" these.men are . an' end.: skirter. "Joe " showed up big in all rangey and weighty" and have the punch and • .the important interhall., goes and - is given 
ner-yy, scrapping ability essential to their posi­tions. Cl9sely shadowing the. first teamers are big Hank Grabner of Corby and Van Ackeren of Brownson. It is conceded that Grabner witha httle development would round into one of- the best defensive players hereabouts. The husk}''lad from Winemac has beef to spare and is as shifty and swift as a ra,bbit. Van Ackeren was one of the superior scrapping units of the phenomenal Brownson pony eleven, and starred consistently on the Brownson line. " 
The position at centre presented a quandary, several men being of an ehgible'calibre. White­head of Walsh was the key to every Walsh attack and.defense tactic. He is an accurate passer, can ppen holes on the offense and'"was a big factor in every drive of the Walsh defensive formations. - Blackman of Sorin is given the pivotal position on the second eleven. Possessed of small stature, but overcoming this handicap with peppery work oil: the turfed re'ctangle, Blackman showed up many of his Herculean opponents. ' > , 
The awarding of thie quarterback ;berth also presented the coaches ^-vrith. a i big dilemma,  the position :at right. Among the other back­field men 'who have displayed themselves  creditably are Fennessy and Gallagher, the  second team halves, Sheehan, Murphy and  Jenny. , There could be but one choice.for, the full­ back position. Babcock, ex-Rensallaer High  School star and 1916 Purdue all-Fresh back­
fieldma.n is without a peer in interhall ranks. ^  As a player of .class .Babcock holds a position  of superiority over any contemporary. He has  speed, bulldog courage and ability to hit the  line for a big gain, when called upon, which was  quite often. He is undoubtedly the cleverest­ player that the Interhall season has brought  into pigskin' limelight, and undoubtedly would  develop, into a star if put 'under, the proper  tutelage. Billeaud holds, down the ;fullback • 
 "position on. the ~ second team, starring with  Wheeler,' Fehnessey and Gallagher in the  ,Wa,lsh line smashing tri-umvirate:  Slick; Sanfqrd, Hallett, Parker, W.' BiUeaud, .  Schofield and Devirie also-played., creditably  diuring the season and' aire ^deserving of honor7  able meintion;^^ ^„, . . 
A Ballad of Old Players. 
J LIGHT my pipe and seem to see Arising out of the black old cob Forms of the players that used to be, Dorais and "Deac" and Bichenlaub. Players of later time can't rob Them of the fame they garnered here. Mention their names, and our hearts still throb,— Here's to the players of yester year. 
1 . 
To enter the house of memory— The door swings wide when you touch the' knob-Is a privilege precious indeed to me And pleasant after the long day's job. In memory's halls I can still hob-nob With heroes of old, without a peer, Feency and, oh, yes, Eichenlaub— Here's to the players of yester year. 
Of course, I but mention two or three, 
(On this account don't think I'm a snob,) But the fello\« who won their prized "N; D." (See "Athletic Guide") area regular mob. 
Now don't imagine I heave a sob To .think of the past; it brings me cheer ' To recall, say, a chap like Eichenlaub— Here's to the players of j^ester year. 
My pipe is out, but the faces bob In and- out of my musing clear— Let's see, did I mention Eichenlaub? Here's to the players of yester. year. 
O'D. 


N. D. Athletes in Camp Elsewhere. 
BY THOMAS J. HANIFIN, '19. 

. In past years a football player's career closed' with his graduation from college. All his hard-earned skill Avas of no further use to him after he-had pla3'^ed his last game at school, except perhaps as a coach. But now this is not so. Camp and professional teams now offer a new^ field and real athletes have no end of oppor­
.tunities. As was to be expected, many Notre Dame men have availed themselves of this 
•chance, and are startling the country with their achievements. Down in Camp- Sherman at Chillicothe, Ohio, Farwick of last year's' fresh­man, team, " Hoot" King, and Ra}': Eichen­laub,' Notre Dame's champion, fullback, are displaying a quality of football such as that section has seldom seen. . In'the East at Camp Devens, Newport News, "Mai" Elward, the varsity end in the years '13, '14, and '15, and Callahan, freshman center in '14, are holding down their favorite positions on- ".Cupid" Black's renowned aggregation. At Paris-Island, South Carolina, "Jack" Meagher, fleet, end on the varsity line last year, and. "Ken" Berkey, freshman end of last year, have been defending the wing .positions for the Marines' team. This combination was -broken up last Thursday, however, when "Ken" sailed for "Somewhere in France." On the Camp-Grants 
. team at ;Rockford, Illinois, "Zipper" Lathrop, varsity tackle for three ^^ears, '12, '13 and',14,: is playing in the line. When Grover- Malone; of the 313th Engineering Corps at Camp Dodge,­near Des, Moines, is not running down I. W; W. disturbers, he is running down punts for the camp team, with "Cy" Kasper as his inter­ference. • lyco Vogel is playing halfback for the officers' team.at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and-:has been hitting the line hard aU season. At Fort Sheridan, '' Cm-ley''' Knowers and; Joe. Pliska, varsity halfback in,'12, '13 and '14; are playing the game with, all their old-time fight. 
An outstanding feature in the games of the camp teams is the reddessness with which, the old Notre Dame stars are piling' up scores. In not a few instances they have scored all the points of the game. At numerous other times it has been the Notre Dame man who was respon­sible for his team's scoring, either by his starting or completing a forward pass or by fiurnishing the runner superb interference. The recent game between the representative teams, of Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg, Miss., and ;that" of the 84th Division at Camp Taylor, in .Louis­ville was another case of "Greek against Greek. Playing for the Taylor team were Harry Baujan at right end;, Keith Jones at-left-tackle,. "Little Dutch" Bergman,as right half, "Fritz" 
Slackford, as fullback, ^McCarthy at. right guard, "Jim'my" Phelan, as quarterback- .foi' a part of the game, and J. O'Harar as substitute at left half. Opposed to them was-a team that had been coached by one of the greatest players that- ever wore the Gold and Blue,., "Pete" Vaughn. •. On his scjuad were" John MiUer, at , fullback,;" Red " Fitzpatrick at-right half,-and. "Chet" .Grant, the .-sp.eedy sophomore of.. last year's varsity squad at quarterback. Camp Taylor won""the game by a 52-.to-2i .score.. Camp Shelby might have made the score more 
even if she had had more Notre Dame men. They A'er}^ evidentl}* constituted the strength of the Taylor team. The Notre Dame men on both teams lived up to -their reputation as fixed stars." "Chet" Grant, substitute quarter for Jimmy Phelan on last year's Notre Dame squad, achieved a si.xty-A^ard run for a touch­down, making the distance in next-to-nothing time. During the entire season, our little Mercur}'- has been dashing down the field for runs ranging from forty to eight}- j'-ards. Another disadvantage to the Shelb}' team was the loss of "Red" Fitzpatrick in the second quarter, when he suffered a fracture and dislocation of the leg in a buck over tackle. The Louisville Times declares Slackford "the greatest line-splitter seen on the field for 3'-ears," and sa3''S "he could alwa3-s be relied upon for a pile-driver gain through the line." The open-field work of Bergman was a revelation to the Southerners. To quote from the Courier­
Journal,—"In the third quarter Bergman was given the ball for a run around left end, but before he had gained fifteen 3'ards he had doubled back and forth and merged somewhere in the direction of the left end. In the course of his advance he slipped out of the arms of at least seven of the Camp Shelb3^ warriors, and it seemed as if the whole team made an effort to down him before* he Avas stopped." We are not surprised to hear this, for open-field running was the specialt3^ of the speedy "Little Dutchman" when he was with us. The performance of the other Gold and Blue satel­lites on the team reflected much credit on Coaches Harper and Rockne b3'- their expert skill and art which the masters had drilled into them as members of the varsit3'- squad. 
Several other graduates of our gridiron have distinguised themselves this season on various professional elevens. Down in Youngstown, Ohio, we find ex-Captain Stanie}^ CofaU,'manag­ing, and playing left half. With his "Patricians" are Freeman Fitzgerald at center and "Gillie" Ward and'' Lep'' Stephan at the tackle positions. With this combination of former varsity stars the " Patricians " have won the " Pro " champion­ship of Ohio. On the "Bull Dogs" of Canton, Ohio, "Cap " Edwards opposed Stephan at tackle, when the Canton combination went down to defeat. "Bill" ZeUeher and "Red" Miller pla3'^ed a few games with the Youngstown 
team.. In Detroit, Ray Whipple is written up as the most phenomenal pla3'-er at end that has ever 
drifted into that district. The sensational 
work of Benny Allen for the "Maroons" at 
Lansing last Sunda3'- certainly deserves notice. 
Benn}'' scored all of the points for his team, 21, 
and pla3'-ed a wonderful defensive game in help­
ing to whitewash his opponents. 
On the Fort Wa3'-iie "Friars" we find such 

renowned old-timers as the famous "Gus" 
Dorais, ail-American quarterback a few 3''ears 
ago, "Al" Feen3'- at center, and Joe Pliska at 
half when he can get awa3'" from camp on 
furlough. At Pine Village our unassuming 
Emmet Keefe is pla3dng that silent, head}^ game 
that made him such a favorite with the students 
here. An opponent never knows that Keefe 
is in the game until a pla3'- is started against him, 
and then it becomes evident b3'- the promptness 
with which that pla}'' is broken up, and Keefe 
never fails to open a gap in the opponent's 
line when he is called upon. 
"Big Dutch" Bergman is the redeeming fe.ature of the Wabash A. C. He is showing his heels to opposing tacklers as frequentl3^ ^-S he did while pla3dng with Notre Dame. "Big" Dutch is alwa3'-s fast enough to get awa}'- for several long runs in each'game. "Sam" Finne­gan is teaching the high school team of Boise, Idaho, the rudiments of the game, and " Charlie " Bachman is coaching the DePauw Universit3^ team at Greencastle, Indiana. Charles Crowley is instructing the varsify at the Universit3'' of Dallas. 
In all games in which the old Notre Dame players have had part, it has been a noticeable fact that it was seldom necessary'" to make a substitution for the Gold and Blue "gridder." In some-camps it has happened that our varsit3'­"subs" and members of our freshmen teams have gotten regular places over members of all-conference and all-western stars from other schools. This is interesting information, because it goes to show the -comparative qualit}'- of our football men, the kind of coaching the}'- get,' and it reflects credit upon the spirit and work of our "subs," men who have been kept off the varsity, not because they were not good, but because others were better. It also suggests that many of the Notre Dame "subs" would be stars elsewhere, and the wisdom of Notre • Dame's policy to continue her athletics in the face of great difficulties is evident now in the sturdy fellows she has sent to the military camps. 
Among the distinctive traditions in the athletics of West Point is the custom of "dipping-the colors" before the big game of the year. This ceremony has been pecuhar to the Army-Navy game for decades, and it now distinguishes the Army-Notre Dame game as well. Just before this great inter-sectional contest-begins, the West Point cadets in full dress march from their barracks to "the Plains." Midwa}^ in line of parade are borne the Stars and Stripes and the flag of the Army corps. When the football field is reached the color-bearers accompanied by the cadet band proceed 
THE DIPPING OF THE COLORS. 
to the center of the gridiron; the rest of the cadets form a great hollow square bordering the field. The Academy yells are given. West Point songs are played by the band and* sung by all the cadets, the flag is saluted, and the cadets then march to their places in the stands. "UTien the band ceases its music the 3'-ell-master assumes charge and the Army cheers are given again, the great cheer for the national emblem coming last as a fitting climax. The colors are then dipped solemnly three times to the cadet stands. A cheer for Notre Dame follows, and the colors are dipped once more. The simple but striking ceremony is^over, and "the Plains" awaits the great battle between the men of West Point and the men of Notre Dame. 
m %^ 

To the yarsity "Tex" gave the pep. When Allison hollered out "hipl" That sure made that old Army step. He jumped in the air over Gipp; 
With his "hike'-' and his "hip," He turned twice around. 
With Brandy and Gipp, And lit on the ground. He killed West Point's great two-year "rep." While Gipp through the Army would rip. 
L.'McL. D. J. P. 
.* * 

* * * *
Now Haig with some Irish and Scotch Now Harvard and Yale only play 
Of Germany's line made a botch;  Informal \^ootball,  so  they  say.  
While our wee bit of  Brandy  It's shocking, is't not,  •  
Likewise  came in handy  • To think they've  forgot  
The Army's brave record to blotch.  The formal New Bnglander way.  
C.  M.  TV. H.  R.  

Captain for 1918. 

"Who will lead the lightin' Irish on the gridiron in 191S?" one naturally asks when'he realizes that Captain Jim Phelan has closed his football career and is practising for other and sterner battles. This question was answered by the votes of the warriors theinselves gathered around a festive table in the Oliver Hotel last Sunda}'' evening. It was the last meeting of the whole squad; for "Tex" Allison was about to leave for home preparatory'- to entering camp, and Frank RA'-dzewski would be off for enlist­ment in Cliicago in a day or two. The choice of the players was Frank "Bodie" Andrews of Rock Island, Illinois. "Bodie" is a player-who knows the game thoroughly and has the. enthusiasm that can inject the "fight" itito his men. When the business of the day was completed, the players settled down to an evening of good-fellowship. Coach Harper acted as toastmaster. He complimented the players on ' their gallant fight all through the season, saying he. considered it the most successful year he had ever had at Notre Dame. The victories which 
-the team won in spite of almost insuperable handicaps were due,_ in his opinion, to its machine-like work and to the fact that every man, regular and substitute, gave all that he had in him. Tom Bang spoke briefl)^ sa3''ing he was sorr}'- to leave the "ole" town. Allison also ex­pressed his regrets at the necessity of sevei'ing tlie ties that bound him to the team. Dave Philbin complimented the team on the fight it had shown all the 5''ear, saying that in after life in other battles the memory of this ^'•ear's fight against odds would be an incentive to \'ictor3'^ then. The following men were awarded monograms: Captain Phelan, King, Hayes, Spalding, Philbin, Andrews, Stine, McGuire Zoia, Stanley, Madigan, RydzcAvski, Allison, Brand}^, Balian, Pearson, Smith, Gipp, and Ryan. 
Over There. 
i 

Through the kindness of Lieut. Joseph Gargan (LL. B., '17), who is now with the American Expeditionary Force in France, we have received a cop)'" of the Paris Edition of the New York Herald of Nov. 6, from which we clip the following account: 
NOTRE DAME BESMIRCHES .. . ARMY'S GRIDIRON SLATE. Despite Fierce Onslaughts of Oliphant, 
West Pointers' Plungiflg Back, 
,.• They Are Trounced, 7-2. 
(BY COMMERCIAL CABLE TO THE HERALD.) 

WEST POINT, N. Y:, Sunday {delayed in. trans-' mission).—^Despite the 'redoubtable onslaughts of Oliphant,, right half-back and captain of the West Point Military Academy's football team, the Army lost its • first big gridiron struggle of the season to Notre Dame here, yesterday afternoon. -The final score was 7 to 2. 
, Notre Dame, always a knotty problem for Eastern college teams, pulled a trick play in the last quarter that caught the Cadets off their guard and resulted in a touchdown. The goal was kicked. The soldiers made, their-two points on a sa.fety following the first kick-off. McQuarrie, Army fullback, almost crashed through the visitor's" backfield defence in the third quarter, but the Notre Dame quarterback saved the game by dropping him in his tracks with a vicious tackle. 
Score by periods i 2 3 4— 
Notre Dame— o o o 7—7 
Armyl -2 o o o—2 

THE ARMY GAM^—^A NOTR^ DAME PUNT. 
j^ 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
,The Everlasting Spirit. 
TVJAS ever such a team As ours is to-day, Shattered and broken. 
Still fighting its way. Just as of old. With spirit as bold And hearts, as true For the Gold and Blue. 
Everlastinglj'-, Pluckily, • Splendidlj', 
In mightiest clashes. With line-splitting smashes. Passes and dashes," Round the ends slipping. For, victory ripping? Never was such a team 
As ours is to-day, 
1 
Though shattered and broken. Still fighting away. V.- F. F. 


Some Football Facts. 

A review of the.football pages in "The Notre Dame Athletic Guide," published last year b}'- Father Michael Quinlan, reveals many facts of interest. We select the following as samples for our gridiron fans. 
Since her first game of football, on the 23rd of November, 1SS7, Notre Dame has been involved in 195 inter-collegiate contests on the gridiron, of which she has won 144, tied, 13, and lost 38. In these games she has scored 492 8 points aginst 962 for her opponents. The largest total for a single season was 3S9 points made in 1912. 
The first game in 1S87 was with Michigan Universit}'', resulting in a score of 8 to o in favor of the visitors.. The second was played the next year with the same school,' with a victory of 26 to 6 for Michigan. 
. In her' second year of-football, • 1888, Notre Dame, met Michigan on the 20th of April, the same team again the .-.next day, and the Harvard School, on the ; 6th of December. Her first victory in football was won in 1888 against the Harvard School by a score-of 20 to o. In 1894'the season was opened promptly on New. Year's Day in a/game with Chicago University, .resulting 8 tol o-for the Maroons. 
In a.schedule of nine games in 1903 Notre Dame did not permit her opponents to score, while she amassed against them a total of 192 points. 
The largest score ever made by the' varsity was in 1905 when she roUed up 143 points against the American Medical; the second largest was the*^ii6 score against St. Viateur's-College, in 1912. 
From 1906 until 1913 covering eight full seasons, the Gold and Blue lost but three games, defeating within that- time such teams as Pittsburgh, Michigan Aggies, Indiana, Piurdue, Marquette, Penn.State, Michigan, and West Point. On November 12, 1910, Notre Dame started the biggest drive in her history, going through practically four full seasons without defeat. The spell was broken in October 17; 1914, in the game with Yale.' 
In our thirteen contests with Bast em teams, we have won nine, lost three, and tied one.. The schools met were Pittsbiurgh, Penn State, Syracuse, Cartyle, Washington and Jefferson, and the Army. In these games Notre Dame counted 160 points, her opponents 106. In three games with Pittsbiu-gh, the reputed champions of the East this year, Notre Dame achieved two victories and a tie. Pittsburgh did not score in anyone of the three games. Of these thirteen games, six were scoreless for the opponents and two for Notre Dame. 
In her five contests mth the Army team at West Point Notre Dame has won the first, third, and fifth, scoring in all 66 points, against­65 by the Cadets, as foUoAvs : 
Nov. I, 1913, N. D. 2,5'y Army 13 • ' Nov. 7, 1914, N. D. 7; Army 20 Nov. 6, 1915, N. D. 7; Army, o ^ Nov. 4, 1916, 'N. p . 10; Army, 30 = Nov. 3, 1917, N. D. 7; Army, 2 

.The contests in which Notre' Dame - has 
broken even with her opponents were: Oct. 2, 1S94, N. D. 6; Albion 6. y. Oct. 13, 1897, N. D. o; Rush Medical o. Nov. 18, 1899, • N. D. 10; Purdue ro. .; . Nov. 3, 1900, N. D. 6; Beloit 61 Sept. 2S,v 1901, N. D. o; S. B. A. C. o. • . Nov. 22, 1902, N-D: 6; Purdue'6. 
. Nov. 14, 1903, N. D. o; Northwestern o. Nov. 2,'1907; N. p . o; Indiana.o. . Nov. 25, 1909, N..D. b; Marquette o. Nov. 28, 1970, N. D..5; Marquette 5. 
. Nov.. 4, 1911," N. p. d; Pitt o. . '. Nov; 30, 1911, N. D, 6; Marquette o. "; Oct. .13, 1917, N-(D.. o; Wiscoiisih o. V 
Richard J. Dunn, '18. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 


|(^e]paiTid§diolastic 
DISCE-QUASI-SL>\PER-VICrVRUS •vfvE-QU^XSI-CR'-VS-^\ORlTVRVS 
Etitered as Secojtd-Class Mail Mailer. 
Published every Saturdaj' during the School Term at the UNn^ERSITY OF KOTRE D.ILME. 
VOL. LI. DECEMBER I. 1917-NO. 10 

Board of Editors. 
DELMAR J. EDMONDSON, '18 CHARLES W . CALL, 'I S JOHN A. X,EMMER, 'I S JOHN L. REUSS, 'iS GEORGE D. HALLER, '19 THOMAS F.HEALY,'19 BROTHER AUSTIN, C. S. C, 'IS. 
—^All things considered, Notre Dame's foot­ball season just closed is, we should sa}-, the most remarkable one in her remarkable athletic 

histor}'-. And now that The Football Season, the smoke of . the big 
battles has cleared awa}', we may with a very pardonable pride take our final glance in retrospect. The outlook at the beginning of the year was a dark blue. The schedule, which had been arranged in view of normal circumstances and with no anticipation of the conditions that actually, prevailed, was the heaviest we have ever had, and perhaps no other school in the country had suffered more thorough depletion of its football force by the call to arms. In the predicament, however, Notre Dame lost no time deploring her plight, she conceived no daint^^ adjective to explain the circumstances, she coined no .pathetic phrase as- an apolog}'­for her remnant squad, she sought no sympathy b)'" advertising in the dail)'- papers the wreck that patriotism had wrought upon her gridiron machine, and least of all did she play an}'- piece of foothght foolishness in cancelling her schedule because a number of her'star athletes had an­swered their countrj'-'s call to war. She did none of these things, but set to work to make the best team she could out of the material that was left. She had. some very definite dates at Madison, at Lincoln, at West Pointj at Sioux City, and at .Washington, Pa., not to* mention several important receptions at home, and she meant to to be.in those places respectively as best she could according to agreement. But above all, it seemed to her that in view, of the military training of the American youth there was much more reason for athletics in the colleges this year than there had ever been 
before. Coaches Harper and Rockne coralled all the possibilities and proceeded to initiate their tyros in the mysteries of the pigskin with a view to standing them up against Elmer Oliphant 
• and other, old-time Titans of the gridiron. The bantam Joe Brandy, for example—of whom the public may have heard this last month or so—played last year in the local consolation conference as a member of the Corb}'" 'Chicks." 
The one redeeming feature of the situation was the spirit with which this war-time company • of youngsters went about their plainty hopeless task. The}^ seemed to feel, as none but them­selves felt, that it devolved upon .them as a matter of course to do the impossible in making Notre Dame's record this 3^ear as good as the old ones. In the prosecution of the schedule a persistent succession of accidents and the loss of strong men b}'- military draft made each coming contest seem more hopeless. But in ever}- instance the next-best was promptly put into the breach, and the doughty squad of fighters for the Gold and Blue drove on against the next line. And so .the}' battled to the finish, against great and growing odds and against several of the strongest elevens in the land. The result is common knowledge with all who follow college football. One defeat by the veteran team of Nebraska, a tie with the eight old players of Wisconsin, and victories over Kalamazoo College, Morningside, South Dakota, Michigan Agricultural, the Army, and Washington and Jefferson, was not bad. Con­
sidering all the circumstances, it was glorious. It is not necessar}'- to comment on the coach-• ing which developed ex tempore such a finished team out of tlie rawest material. Nor shall we waste any words trying to praise the work of the lads who, without experience, by sheer pluck and push, have made this year's record so unexpectedly phenomenal. "What they did is its own best comphment. , Sufiice it to call t attention to the, fact that the strong teams mentioned above were able to score altogether only, nine points oh them; Nebraska one touch­down and the Army a safety, /^^e have a lurking siisipcion tliat our football men of 1917, like the many others of other years now in ( training at'the varibus military camps, are just about the kind of young fellows .our Uncle Samuel wants;for .the/hard job; he has in hand, the kind that. wiU make "his heart glad'when some .. mbnths hence 1 they will hit the Hindenberg\, line on their way to Berlin:--' . ., 
'-./•'-• -_ •'.---' 
/ 

Local News. 

—The Kentucky Club is to hold its annual banquet December 15. Further details will be announced later. 
—Lost—^A cop3' of the Veritas magazine. Valuable, because it is necessary for the com­
pletion  of  a  set.  Kindl}'  return  to  Rector's  
office  in Sorin..  
—Eugene  McMenamin  and  Allen  Page  of  

Brownson Hall have entered their names for 
the bird contests which is being conducted by 
the Indiana State Board of Forestry 
—The department of Journalism has just received one hundred and twent3''-five selected editorials in phamplet form. They are to be used for study in editorial writing by the Senior class. 
—Students will be pleased to hear of the recent well-deserve'd promotion of our vailitoxy instructor of last year, George A. Campbell, to the rank of captaincy. Captain Campbell is now stationed at Plattsburg, N. Y. 
—Elmer S. Riggs of the Field Museum of" Natural History of the Universiy of Chicago delivered an instructive and well-attended lecture in Washington Hall Saturday, Nov. 24. This is Mr. Riggs' second visit to the University. 
• ^—Students possessing newspaper clippings expressing comments upon the Notre Darae team by football critics aire requested to lend the same to any editor of the SCHOLASTIC in order that the contents may be put on record. All clippings will be retiuned. 
—Members of .the Kansas City Club will send, greeting cards to all former students of Kansas City who are now in some branch of government service. The club has decided to charter .a special car for the members going home for the Christmas holidays. 
. .—^Brownson Hall has resumed its usual cheerful atmosphere since the return of Brother Alphonsus from St. Joseph Hospital. The cord­munions and inasses offered by the Brownsonites during the.illness of their rector undoubtedly played, a great part in his speedy recover)''. 
—The Minim. First Tea-m took on some'out­side-talent lastSaturday afternoon when they defeated ; eleven huskies from South Bend, one of them being a dusky fullback. The little fellows so outclassed the invaders that 
our reporter quite lost track of the score. •—The Sisters wish to extend through the SCHOLASTIC their sincere thanks to the Notre Dame Glee Club for an evening's thorough enjoyment. The singers may be assured of the fact that the quality of the entertainment was deeply appreciated as well as the spirit in which it was given. 
—A poem entitled "On the Battle Field" by Mr. Charles Jones, was the feature of last Sunday's [program in the Holy Cross Liter­ary. Society. An interesting paper was read by Mr. Roche; a declamation given by Mr. Nagel; a short-story by Mr. Bilecki, and an essa}'' read by Mr. Witucki. 
—The Poetr}'- Society held its regular meeting Sunday evening. Discussion of routine news, consideration of the ebullitions of a South Bend bard, and other matter wa? followed by criticism and appraisal of the members' products. "In a Mirror" by George D. HaUer and "FuMll­ment" by Brother Xavier were voted the best submitted. 
—^The following telegram was received by the President during the week: "The pastor and members of the Holy Name Society of Saint Anthon3'-'s Church, Belle\aie, Kentucky, wish to congratulate you and your football team on their glorious victories." Many thanks, Ken^ tucky rooters! We congratulate ourselves upon our victories—and upon our friends. 
—^The following members of Carroll have been awarded athletic monograms for work done during the football season: Charles McKeown (manager), Geroge Barry (captain), Charles Connolly, Raymond Girardin, Jose Aviles, Fernando Aviles, Robert Follett, Mansel White, Leonard Judae, John • Bulmer, George Ward, Gustavo Madero . and WilHam Hodoshi. 
—^The- Butcher ,Boys of South Bend, who were defeated by the Carroll Hall teafa two weeks ago, retirrned with reinforcements last Sunday, bent upon downing their former -op-' ponents. The Carrblhtes, however, refused to be beaten and proved themselves the original Butcher boys themselves by slaughtering- tie invaders, reinforcements and- all. The final score was 48 to o. . , ' 
^Th e regular, conference of Holy Gross priests was, conducted in the reading room of Holy Cross Seminar)-, on November .22. The ~ papers read were as follows: "The Sacrament of Extreme Unction" b)"- Father Gorka,—dis­cussion by Fathers Scheier and Sherrer; "The Priest and the non-Catholic," by Father O'Neill,—discussion by Fathers Vagnier and Minnick; "The Holy Father on Preaching" b)'­Father O'Donnell, — discussion by Fathers Irving and McGinn. 
—The Universit}'' has just received a col­lection of the relics of Major-General Don Carlos Buell, of Civil War fame. The}'' consist of fift}'" maps, man}^ volumes of correspondence, the General's war manuals, his diploma from West Point, pistols, sabre, saddle, uniform coat and the coffin plate bearing his name. The articles were presented through the gener­osit}- of friends and relatives by Father Linde­smith, who was himself a Civil War chaplain and whose family has seen service in every American war. 
—^T^T'ednesday evening, Nov: 28, William S. Hart again reformed for the benefit of the students, but this time reward f ollo.wed not upon reformation. "Wolf" Lowry was a story after the Hart routine, bad' man plus good girl equals reformation plus happiness and a triangle. In tliis pla}'-, however, the divi­sors or something got mixed, and "Hart's" though trumps, met the joker and lost out. If William S. Hart were to combine with a Bret Harte we might get an original as well as interesting picture occasionally. 
—^A Catholic paper of established reputation has been offered for sale to an}'- member or mem­bers of the Notre Dame School of Journalism who may wish to enter "that particular field. The paper in question has episcopal approbation, is in a sound financial condition and boasts of carrjdng the largest amount of legal advertising of an}'' Catholic paper in tlie United States. The present editor is retiring on account of old age, having been connected with the paper for twenty-five years. Anyone interested can ob­tain information from one of the instructors in the Department of Journalism. ' 
—One of the "scarcely" populated halls .which has hitherto enjoyed privileges en masse, now finds itself frequently flooded with darkness at an exceediiigly early hour. An unfortunate resident of this hall slipped down the stairs in the darkness a short-time ago, disturbing the slumbers of the guardian to such an. extent that in order to (avoid?) siinilai; mishaps, he now turns off the lights every tiiiie a mouse ; 

starts up the stairs. A dictionary of psycholog}'^ tells us that it is-much easier to find one's way in the light than in darkness, but "she" may be wrong. 
—Father Cavanaugh and Father McGinn spoke at the meeting of the South Bend .Zionist Society in' the Temple Beth-El Sunday after­noon at whicli Judge Hugo Pam of Chicago, brother of Dr. Max Pam, founder of the Notre Dame school of journalism, delivered the prin­cipal address. The Zionist movement in South Bend is headed by. Rabbi Liebert of Tempel Beth-El. Herman Ries, president of the society, Max Adler and A. R. Mayerfield. The move­
" ment represents an attempt to recover for the Jewish people the land of their forefathers in Palestine. 
—^Tlie Senior class has voted to give the entire contents of its treasury to the fund which is to be raised towards the purchase of a Notre Dame ambulance for the American Ambulance Field Service. For this purpose it is necessar}' to raise five thousand dollars. Father Matthew Walsh is treasurer of the fund and those to whom its collection has been delegated are: Frank Monaghan, Leonard Mayer, James Hanion, 
• Joe Riley, Cornelius Whelan, and Edward Harbet. The project was initiated by the seniors who have prepared, a circular letter "to be sent to all parents informing them of the proposed action. 
—^The Varsity was informally entertained while in Washington, Pa., by the local council . of the Knights of Columbus. A program was arranged and refreshments were served, after which John J. Curran', local Grand Knight, spoke as did also Dr. S. H. Rinehardt, lecturer 
* of the council. Rev. Thomas Zacharski of the Cafinonsburg said a few words and acting Captain Rydzewski replied . for the team. Assistant Coach Rockne also spoke briefly. The N. D. Alumni of Pittsburgh also laid tentative. plans for a banquet after the game, but the early.leaving-of the team prevented their being-carried out. . 
—tThrough one ;pf those mistakes which so frequently occur in the handling of copy, no ^ 
•announcement was made of a rather important ' happening at the University-recently. We refer to the formation of a Notre Dame Golf Club. Through the influence.'of Father ; Michael Ouinlan, an organization has been effected and the membership .already", numbers about thirty. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i6j 
At' a recent meeting in Walsh hall the following officers .were elected for the year: Rev. Michael Ouinlan, honorary president; 'D.-D . Smith, president; D. J. Kdmondson, vice-president; 
B. C. Kirk, secretary-treasurer; C. F. Baine, auditor-of-accounts. Although a- similar or­ganization existed at the University in time past, we feel sure that this one has come to stay. 
—Dr. Frank J. Powers has secured a verj­satisfactory arrangement with the State author­ities. Students of anatomy in the medical school will not lack, under this arrangement, ample material for dissection. 
—^Students in the agricultural department with Prof. Johns, made a trip of inspection to the plant of the Burnoil Engine Go. in South 
•Bend recently. Mr. Bowers of the-Burnoil Co. entertained his guests Avith a highly instructive address. 
—The Fort- Wa^'^ne Journal-Gazette of recent issue gave very' complimentar}'' reports of the missionary labors of Reverend George Finni­gan, C. S. C., and Reverend Bernard Mulloy, 
C. S. C., in the Cathedral parish of that cit}'". Both Fathers are members of the Holy Cross Mission Band, the latter haAdng recently re­turned from a month's work among Kentucky "churches. 
—James P. O'Neill, a resident of Brownson Hall in 1S83, was recently promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General. In his time Mr. O'Neill was an enthusiastic member of the Notre Dame, Cadet Corps,' and upon leaving school enlisted in the service of . the government. He • saw active service in Cuba and in the Philippine Islands, and participated in the battle of San Juan Hill in the Spanish-American War. His many Notre Dame friends congratulate him upon his well-merited" appointment. 
-^-^Lieutenant Paul Perigord, a priest who resigned his position as professor of Theology at St. Paul's Seminary to enlist in the French army-at the beginning of the war, visited the university Saturday. Before returning to South Bend to lecture before the Rotary club, the French soldier-priest paid a visit to Rev. Gilbert Frangais, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross at St. Joseph's farm. Father Perigord has been wounded many times and has received .five :decorations for valor, one from the hand of Marshall Joifre himself. He is in'this country following President Wilson's request for speakers to arouse French war spirit in America. During his stay he is also serving as instructor in the training camps. Father Perigord expects to return and address the' students. 
—^The department of South American history has just received from the Rev. Dr. Zahm, 
C. S. C , its founder, a collection of some fifty volumes and several hundred photographs and slides dealing with South America. The shipment contained also many articles of interest for the museum—an Indian hammock poisoned arrows, an Argentine saddle, a mate gourd and bombilla, flags of various countries, etc. Among the books, special interest attaches to'Garibay's "Compendio de los Quarenta I/ibros de las Chronicas, y Universal Historia de Esapfia," an exceedingly rare work in four parchment-bound quartos, printed in Barcelona in 1628. The collection of pictures includes the Argentine exhibit at the San Francisco exposition and a special set of views of Chile prepared for Dr. Zahm by the Chilean Embassy in Washington. 
Besides the South Americana there are a great many books and objects of art for the general library, and the "Woman in Science" collection. Among these there are foiu: exquisite tapestries, representing respectively St. Mark's of Venice, the Bay of Naples, the Roman Colosseum and the Great Mosque of Cairo. 
—Thirty members of the New England Club enjoyed an old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day dinner at the Farmers Trust Inn on the evening of Thursday last. Raymond Murray presided as toastmaster and the principal guests of the evening were Rev. John McGinn and Mr-. Miles W. O'Brien of the South Bend Lathe works. A. feature of the occasion was the appearance of representatives from each of the New England States in the .entertainment and talks accompanying the dinner. The following participated: John Ambrose, ^Walter O'Keefe, Patrick- Granfield, James Dooley, John Massuer, James Sullivan, Thos. I^avery, WilHam Baker, Wilfred Riley, Vincent Fagan 
. and Dave Hayes. The affair was carried out with the success usually attending the New England Club fimctions. 
. —^A packed house greeted the Notre Dame and South Bend talent taking part in the Red Cross concert in Washington Hall last Monday evening. Besides realizing dose to four hundred dollars, the concert was a success from the entertaining standpoint. 
i6S THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Notre Dame orchestra was at its best and opened the program with a stirring, well-played o\'^rture. Then following the Star Spangled Banner, the Glee Club sang two numbers which were well received. The songs 
• by Mrs. Barnes, who combines a pleasing personahtj- with an excellent voice, were exceedingly well sung. "Duke" Staples made the audience laugh with his character songs, in spite of the fact that some of them recalled John Riley of last 3'^ear's Glee Club. Miss Helen Guilfo34e proved herself an artist in solo work as well as in accompan3dng. Her playing showed remarkable technic, and' with true expression and shading, no doubt could be left as to her ability. G. Lawrence Ott sang two songs composed by Professor John D. Becker of the Universit}'- conservatory. Both were tuneful and well sung. Mrs. Gertrude Miller Frash and Jose Corona did well. Walter O'Keefe 
was one of the big hits with his Harr}'" Lauder impersonations and songs.- Charles McCauley upheld his reputation in his "Ten Minutes of Ragtime," and was an appropriate choice for the close of the evening's performance. All in all, the-concert was a big success. 
—^Although the Minims and Carroll do not participate in interhall athletics, the boys of both halls deserv^^e a menti'on in any athletic number of the SCHOLASTIC. Some of our brightest football stars of the past and present learned the rudiments of the game while wearing the knickerbockers of those departments, and the future seems to promise even more than the past. Among the minims, football activities this year were on a par with other 3'^ears, which means that practically every minim was the member of one team and sometimes of three and four. Every recreation presented a game or two and in no case was the scoring a run­away—^which indicates considerable tackling and defense ability. In Carroll the "Teenie 

•Weenies," or ex-minims, showed a degree of team work which was surprising in youngsters, and on every occasion when they hooked up with the heavier teams from South Bend, they finished with the higher score to their credit. The first team of Carroll, along with its subs, presented some very promising material which will imdoubtedly count in interhall activities later oh. Even the Brownson Chicks found the CarroUitesa^ tough proposition and the heavy teams which visited the University from South Bend had no chance at all. Stars there were in ­the teams mentioned above, but the less flasli3'­pla3''ers toiled so hard to uphold the honors of their respective teams that we refrain .from mentioning individuals. Here's to the Carroll and Minim teams! 

The Glee Club Concert. 
The Glee Club gave its third annual concert in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening. The 

•entertainment was of a high quality throughout, showing a careful stud3'" of technique, a classic selection of numbers, and an exceeding^ pleasing rendition. The strains of the National anthem began the evening. The overture "Lustspiel" was given b3i^ the finest orchestra we have known in 3'-ears at Notre Dame. Too much credit for its entire performance can not be allowed its industrious director, Mr. Dillon Patterson. The opening song, Grieg's "Land-sighting," was ver3'' effectively rendered. Per­haps tlie gem of the evening was "The Sword of Ferrata," which was characterized by nicety of finish, distinctness of enunciation and em­phasis, and was given with spirit. 
Jose Corona sang several well-appreciated solos. Mr. Corona has what is styled a Spanish tenor, and he is a capable and finished artist. Walter O'Keefe, picturesquely costumed, gave "A Wee Bit. of Skotch." To style him the Harry Lauder of Notre Dame were insufficient praise. He has a natural and unassuming stage presence that is pleasing, a good voice and skill as a monologist. Charles McCauley pleased with '' Ten Minutes of Ragtime.'' His dramatic singing of "Over There" was tlie best of his selections. He -is a gifted interpreter of the modern ragtime spirit. 
The entire program was agreeable and well-encored. The Banjo-Mandolin Club was re­grettably absent. If suggestions are permitted, a little variety in the offerings of the Club as a^ unit would not be amiss. 
* • *' 
Obituary. 

To Brother Owen, C. S. C, a member of the junior class, we offer our S3''mpathy. on the death of his mother, Mrs. Patrick Lynch, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Althoughv her passing was rather sudden it was not, unprovided, for all her life" was she a model, Catholic. May her precious soul rest, in peace. 
Personals. 

—John Haniia, former student of the Bngineer­[i ing course at the University, is a machinist's mate on the U. S. Ship. Michigan. 
—The United States' District Attorney's office seems to hold a certain fascination for Notre Dame men.' We have just received .the ncAvs that Elmer Whitty, old student and former-football player, is now an assistant U. S. district attorney. 
—Clement L. Ulatowski (I/L..B., '11), former Varsity football player and later member ,of tlie Cubs, is now serving his countr}'- in the no.'vj. If "Clem" still retains his old batting 
_ e)'-e, he will surel)'- send a good-many.of the Kaiser's torpedo pitchers- to the.bench. 
-7—Lieutenant Joe Gargan of the U. S.. Marines writes from "somewhere in France" that he is in charge of a machine gun unit, and. hopes, to be sent to the front soon., After, three-years of 
^ cheer leading at Notre Dame, going ,'.'over-the top'/ should be a matter of the least consequence to Joe. ,. .. ' ... 
—Coach Andy Smith of. the University of-California football team,-' would > like. to bring Notre Dame out .there next 3^ear for a "real big game" and the year after to play us in Chicago. California claims .the. Pacific;coast chanipionship, and knows where to look for. a worthy rival. 
—Being a superb • quarter-miler has not satisfied, the ambitions of John Plant (E. E., '14), ex-track captain of the Varsit)-, who has entered Rush Medical College. We feel ^con­fident that.no matter how much "Rush''-there is in, it, we .will find our diminutive sprinter leading the field. : 
—The proposition that "Some laT\7-ers are honest" has again been.proved in the case of Harold-Madden (LL. B., '15). -He is employed in the Trust Department of the Chicago Savings Bank and Trust Company. Your classmates and University friends wish you a rapidadvance­ment in your chosen profession, "Harold. 
—Some of the present generation on the' campus have X frequently - asked, ."What has become of Xefty' Clerkin?" Leonard was a student in: Brownson Hall in 'i3-'i4, but is now pursuing his studies in St. Vincent's High School, Akron, Ohio. , "Lefty" 'is starring in all branches of athletics, at St» Vincent's". Perhaps he will return to us next year. 
—^Forest Fletcher, star track man Co9-'"i3), and inember of the American track team that won the Olympic Games" at Stockholm, is again serving his country on a foreign field. This time Forest is Sergeant in charge of the Washington and Lee University Hospital. Corps which is now serving in France. We hope to see our old friend again on the winning team. 
.—^The friends of Edmund Sylvestre (LL. B., ' 17) wiU be interested in learning that he is now. serving his country "somewhere in France". "Eddy" received a lieutenancy in the adjutant general's department, and has been working, in Washington up to his departure for France two weeks ago.. Notwithstanding the fact that we can enjoy "Eddy's" congenial smile only in retrospection, it is, nevertheless, gratifying to know that.another Notre Dame manis-mak-­ing good in the ser^ace. 
^Lieutenant E. A.- ("Nig") Kane (C. E., '14) -is stationed .at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. 
- Because "Nig" used to-keep Brother;Florian busy quelling disturbances in St. Joseph HaU, don't for a minute imagine that "Nig" is ser\'-­ing a sentence at the Fort. On the contrary he. is serving his Uncle Sam and longing for a cruise on the Atlantic, with'France as a desti­nation.. If "Nig" gets a chance to rough-house the Kaiser, Wilhelm will wish that Brother' "Flo" was around to separate them. ­
—^We print the following interesting .extract 
from a letter received by Father. Foik from 
Bernard Voll, a graduate of last year and varsity 
debater, who is in the second Officers, Training. 
Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Tenn.: 
Life in this camp is everything that you have heard about it and then some. From the attitude of the commanders, it seems that they intend to eliminate -the physically unfit and those who lack the necessary stamina. I do not know, nor does anyone else, what is the status of each candidate; but one thing is certain,—^I can stand it physically,- and I think I have the stamina also. N. D.' gave me that > if I did not possess it before, so if I am eliminated it will be for some other reason I have been in the trenches thirty-six hours, eight of which I -wras in water up to my knees. . . This week we go into the trenches for three days and two nights, which will be the hardest test of all. Next to trench work comes guard duty—twenty-four hours of which I had in rain and cold. But with all its faults I like the life and mean to stay with it, if possible, to., the end, when I, hope to continue my studies. 
The best of luck to you, "Bemy!" With all, 
that Notre Dame "pepper" you can't help but 
succeed. 
Dr. Bank's Lecture. 
Dr. Edgar Banks, the noted archeologist, gave an interesting lecture Saturda}'- evening on ancient Crete. Knossos, capital of Minos the legendar}'- king of Crete, and the famous lab3^rinth of the Minotaur, were thrown upon the screen exactly as recent excavations have revealed them. The love tale of Prince Theseus, tlie stor}'- of conflict with the Minotaur, the tragic home-coming of the hero and the suicide of his ro3-al father, in connection with the recentl}'' unearthed scenes of these exploits, gave zest to a subject which might otherwise have been dr}"-. 


Noted War Chaplain Speaks. 

Friday afternoon the student body attended one of the finest lectures ever given in Wash­ington Hall. L'Abbe Patrice Ftynn, Cure de Suresnes (Pres Paris) and Aumonier Militaire, gave an account of his experience in the great war. The patriotic French priest spent twenty-two months in the trenches as chaplain, and is at present touring the country in the interests of his government. From a heart overflowing with grief, jet without rancor, Father Flynn pictured the ga)'', indomitable spirit of his countr}'^—the heroism and faith of its soldiers. He expressed himself as feeling quite at home in America since this nation is now one with France. The Abbe described the havoc of war, the cities devastated, the armies fallen, but particularl}?- the heroic sacrifice of the chaplains and Catholic soldier}'- of France. He told of the remarkable revival of faith over all the land; of soldiers dying like heroes and saints. He also gave a graphic picture of that epic conflict—the retaking of the outer forts of. Verdun. Following the lecture. Father Flynn exhibited views of trench life and of the French soldiers,—"TOY boys," as he affectionatety called them. 
"The spirit of France" will no more be an abstract phrase with us at Notre Dame—^we have seen it personified. The sorrow over a stricken fatherland which still has room to forgive; the brave heart and the gay smiles in the; face of death; the pathos that laughs with a voice shaky with tears; childlike faith "and happy loVe—^this is France. And L'Abbe Flynn had but to speak to us of what he knew to show us tiie throbbing heart of France. 

Notre Dame.Upholds Western Honors Again. 
Before the ardor of Eastern critics cooled after the unlooked for defeat of the Army, the Gold and Blue slipped quietly back into Oriental territory and snatched another game a week or two ago, this time from the strong Wash­ington and Jefferson team. Two victories in the East within twenty-two da5'-s is a record probably never before attained b}'^ any Western team. 
The W and J game was a thriller from start to finish, with the outcome always in doubt until the last whistle. Notre Dame entered the game with her man power close to the minimum only to.be robbed of the services of DeGree and R^'-dzewski before the game had fairly started. Madigan and Stine, fortunately proved most capable substitutes, and the loss of the two stars looked like the incentive that rallied the remaining men to the supreme effort that resulted in a concerted drive down the field and a field goal that won the day. 
When one considers that Notre Dame gained first down on but three occasions and that not a single forward pass of the three attempted was completed, it will be seen what a desperate assault the Gold and Blue waged in the third quarter to bring the ball to a point where Brandy could send it fli^ng over the crossbar. The W and J team was by far the heavier, and weight counted more than usual on a field where chalk lines were invisible and broom paths in the snow indicated the 3-ard lines. 
From the beginning it was evident that W and J was out to win and they used every­thing in their repertoire to gain an advantage. The game was scarcely under way before forward passes and peculiar formations were unpacked to disconcert, if possible, the invaders. Nine­teen times they sent forward passes fl3dng toward the Notre Dame goal, but so effective was' our boys' defense that only a small fraction of that number were completed and the total 5'-ardage gained did not exceed fifty 5'^ards. 
Notre Dame played a style of game adapted directly to her resources. Bahan steered the team from quarter, and acting under instruc­tions did not try a forward pass in the forepart of the game, continually kicking oh second or third downs. , The reason for the non-passing attack was that Notre Dame had no^'one who could throw the ball accurately, andl^Miller's constant gaining on every exchange of punts 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
with McCreight was preferable to the uncertain advance by rushing the ball. 
Notre Dame waited hopefully for the break that would give her any kind of a chance to score. Because Notre Dame had been billed as "the foremost exponent of the forward pass in intercollegiate football" was no reason why Bahan should hazard the ground gained by Miller's punting and the brilliant tackling of the Notre, Dame ends and tackles behind the line of scrimmage.' At the psychological moment, however, Bahan attempted two aerial thrusts, and though neither was successful, they served to extend the W and J secondary defense sufficiently for Bahan and Brandy to execute the placement goal from the field. .That bit of strateg}'" gave us the victory. 
The daity press reviewed the gaime in detail. An example follows: On a snow-flecked field and with a frigid temperature prevailing, Notre Dame defeated Washington and Jefferson at football here this afternoon, 3 to o. Brandy's placement goal at the 34-yard line in the third quarter, with Quarterback Bahan holding the ball, constituted the only scoring of the contest, which was the first ever played between these teams. Neither team had any decided advantage at any time and after the first half it looked like a scoreless tie unless some "break" might occur that would provide an opportunity for the fortunate eleven. This "break" came in the third quarter, when a W & J man tackled Brandy after the latter had signaled for a fair catch in receiving McCreight's punt. Once before the W and J tacklers, in their eagerness to down the man taking a punt, had hurled Brandy in his tracks when he threw up his hand for a fair catch. The usual 15-yard penalt3'- for the foul was given Notre Dame on the second occasion and the baU was placed in scrimmage on the W and J 25-yard line. Then Notre Dame endeavored to put into execution its much-vaunted forward pass attack, but the W and J secondary defense Avas alert and smeared two in succession. THS KICK THAT DECIDED 
Then Bahan cleared a little space at the 34-yard line for an apparent placement goal. Brandy had tried for a placement earlier in the game and it had been blocked, being a weak attempt. It did not look at all probable that he would succeed this time under the field conditions that prevailed, and with the W and J forwards always rushing through on kicks, but Brandy, who had distinguished himself earlier in the year, on the visitor's first visit to the East by scoring a touchdown on the Army, stepped forward quickly when the ball was passed, and,sent the ball high and far between the uprights. The goal could have been kicked at the 45-yard line, as it had wonderful distance. 
- Washington and Jefferson had much the better of the first half. It rushed the ball for three first downs -during this _time, twice in the initial quarter and again 
in the second period. In addition, it secured two first downs through fouls committed by the Westerners. Notre Dame did not make a single first down in the first two periods and but three all told during the con­test, these all coming in the third period, when it showed its one real consistent offensive. 
BRACE COMES TOO LATE W and J braced toward the end of the game and registered two first downs in rapid succession, making two more than Notre Dame throughout the contest. But the red and Black failed again to show any scoring power in its running attack and never seriously threatened the alien's goal. Washington and Jefferson started off like a winning team in the initial quarter. Notre Dame received the kickoff and was quickly forced to punt when it found an impregnable barrier in the Re'd and Black line. John Tres'sel, the W^ and J right end, who was moved into the backfield on the offense, jammed through a tackle for 7 yards after McCreight had run an end for four. W and J mixed in a few forward passes with its running attack and carried the ball to the Notre Dame 4o'-yard line. Here Notre Dame held and forced a punt. The Red and Black cut loose with another display of offensive strength early" in the second period, reg­istering another first down and ramming the ball through the line for steady gains, while an occasional forward pass was successful. But Notre Dame again halted the advance and, assisted by a 15-yard penalty meted out to Captain McCreight's team, held off the Washington and Jefferson onslaught without being in serious danger. CAPTAirr IS BANISHED Then came an incident that came near proving disastrous for the Western eleven. At about the middle of the second period an official claimed he detected acting Captain Rydzewski, the giant Notre Dame center, in the act of striking a Washington and Jefferson player. Referee Crolius ordered the big Pole from the game. The visiting players and coaches protested that Rydzewski had not struck an opponent, but had merely used his hands in a proper defensive mariner. The protest failed to stand, however, and Notre Dame was penalized half the distance to its goal, the ball being taken to the 21-yard line. Made des­perate by the setback the Notre Dame team fought like tigers on the defensive. A line play and two W and J forward passes failed to gain an inch .and McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 30-yard line. Quarter­back Stobbs holding the ball. The ball Avas picked up by Bahan, who ran it back , to the exact line where W and J had previously held it, the 21-yard line. The third period saw Notre Dame tearing into the Washington and Jefferson defense tor the only consis­tent and sustained attack by either team during the entire contest. After receiving the kickoff W and J was forced to kick, McCreight getting off a very weak punt, - which went, to Notre Dame in - midfield. Witli Bahan and Pearson carrying the ball most of the time and the quarterback calling his own signal two out of three times, Notre Dame advanced the ball steadily. Then W, and J'held and Brandy tried a placement goal on the 35-yard line. The Washington and Jefferson 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
forwards rushed through and blocked the attempt, v but Notre Dame showed itself a lucky team again by recovering for first down on the W and J 15-yard line. 
COMES THE BIG CHANCE 
Notre Dame opened up again with its slices off tackle and with Bahan carrying the ball until it had gone to the Red and Black 15-yard line. Here Henry and Stein got busy, and on two successive downs hurled back the Notre Dame backs for an aggregate loss of ten yards. An onside kick caught by Ruble brought the ball back to the 20-yard line and W and J kicked out of danger apparently. 
But the foul in tackling the man trying to make a fair catch was disastrous and gave the Westerners their one big opportunit3% which they took advantage of. W~and J had a heart-breaking piece of hard luck in the fourth period, which, if the "break" had' gone the other wa3', would have given the Red and Black a touchdown and a victory. ' 
Notre Dame in its own territory was stopped dead by the Washington and Jefferson defense and Miller went back to kick. Henry tore through the line .like a streak of lightning and blocked the punt. Three or four players of both teams rushed after the bounding ball, but a Notre Dame man managed to fall on it on its own three-yard line, with a half dozen Red and Black clad figures fighting desperately to get it. 
Had W and J got the ball then, nothing outside a miracle could have prevented it from scoring. 
VISITORS BEST KICKERS 
About the middle of the fourth period W and J enthused its supporters by a fine display of forward passing. Taking the ball in midfield, McCreight began to shoot the leather forward on short lobs to Tressel, Carroll and Stein. Two successive first downs were made, and the visiting backs were literally standing on their heads, unable to fathom the play. W and J 

^ tried once too often, however, and lost the ball on downs Avhen it failed to complete this play on the fourth down. 
Notre Dame played a dilatory game toward the end, kicking on first down and merely staving off a score. 
The Notre Dame line defense at times was brilliant, the tackles and ends particularly ploughing through and making tackles. The same was true of the W and J tackles. In kicking Notre Dame had much the better of the argument. Miller's punts gaining over Mc­Creight's on almost every exchange. 
Bahan featured in his running with the ball, while McCreight and Tressel were forward pass stars for the Red and Black. Stobbs was the most consistent grotmd-gainer for his team in a running attack. The game in detail follows: 
FIRST PERIOD 
Washington and Jefferson w^on the toss and* elected to kick off. Notre Dame defending the south goal. Pearson returned the ball five yards to the 2 5-yard line, Pearson ran aroimd the W and J left end for five yards. DeGree of Notre Dame was hurt in the first rush and was 'forced to leave the game, the first he had started in this year.' He was replaced by Madigan. 
Brandy gained a yard at the other end, then fumbled but recovered. Miller punted to Stobbs, who Avas thrown at the W and J 35-yard line. MfcCreight circled Notre Dame's left end for four yards. Tressel made first down through Notre Dame's right tackle on the W and J 47-yard line. ^ 

Ruble failed off Notre Dame's left tackle. A forward 

pass through McCreight was incomplete. A forward 
pass, McCreight to 'Tressel, gained six yards at Notre 
Dame's left. Bahan received McCreight's punt and 
was thrown by Henry on the Notre Dame 27-yard line. 
Pearson gained two yards at W and J's left side, and 
Brandy gained three more at W and J's right end. 
McCreight made a fair catch of Miller's punt on the W and J 30-yard line. Tressel made two yards at Notre Dame's left guard. Zoia broke up a W and J forward pass. Miller received McCreight's punt and was thrown on the Notre Dame 45-3'-ard line. Bahan slammed through center for five yards. Pearson got three yards off W and J's left tackle. Miller was held for no,gain in a plunge at center. Miller was hurried in his punt and sent the ball out of bounds on the W and J 30-yard line. 
King tackled AlcCreight after the W and J captain had made four yards. Tressel, running from kick formation, got three at the Notre Dame left end. McCreight Avas stopped for no gain at Notre Dame's right guard. McCreight in a plunge at the opposing left tackle made first down on the W and J 46-yard line. 
Madigan hurled Ruble for a four-yard loss trying Notre; Dame's right end. Washington and Jefferson failed on a forw^ard pass. McCreight's punt was taken by Bahan, who returned to the -Notre Dame 41-yard line. Miller punted to Stobbs, who made a fair catch on the W and J 35-yard line. Stobbs got three yards at center. Tressel ran the Notre Dame right end for three yards. End of first period. Score: W and J, o; Notre Dame, o. 
SECOND PERIOD 

A forward pass, McCreight to Carroll, made first down in midfield. Stobbs gained two yards in a dash at center. Stobbs tried to make a forward pass but Avas tackled for a four-yard loss before he could throw the ball. Brandy broke up a long forward pass. Bahan signaled for a fair catch on McCreight's punt but he was tackled by a Washington and Jefferson man, and Washington and Jefferson drcAV a 15-yard penalty. 
Pearson lost a yard trying Washington and Jeffer­son's left side. Miller failed at the same spot. Stobbs made a fair catch of Miller's punt on the Washington and Jefferson 36-yard line. Andrews broke through and tossed Tressel for a 12-yd. loss at N. D's left end. 
Zoia got Ruble from behind after a two-yard gain. McCreight's punt was allowed to fall to the ground and it struck a Notre Dame player. Henry picked it up and ran to the Notre Dame 34-yard line. McCreight hit center for two yards. Stein dropped a perfect forward pass from McCreight. Tressel was tackled by a Notre Dame man before' he had caught a forward pass from McCreight. 
Washington and Jefferson got first down Avhere the foul was committed on the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Stobbs gained two yards at center. Tressel failed to gain running at Notre Dame's left end. Acting Captain Rydze\yski Qi Notre Dame was put out of the game for 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
striking a Washington and Jefferson player and Notre Dame penalized half the distance to the goal, putting the ball on the Notre Dame 21-yard line. 
Madigan took Rydzewski's place and Stine replaced IMadigan at right guard. Washington and Jefferson did not gain in a line play and then failed at a forward pass. Another Washington and Jefferson forward pass failed. With Stobbs holding the ball, McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 29-yard line. The ball went short and Bahan carried it back to his 21-yard line. 
Brandy ran the Washington and Jefferson right tackle for three yards. Pearson did not gain at center on a criss-cross play. On a kick play through center Bahan gained three yards. Miller made a wonderful punt when the ball Avas rolled back to him. 
Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 3S-yard line. Washington and Jefferson lost five yards on a forward pass, McCreight to Garbisch. Ruble gained nine yards on a second forward pass from McCreight.' Stine broke up a Washington and Jefferson forward 
pass  as  the  half  ended.  Score: Washington and  
Jefferson,  o;  Notre Dame,  o.  
THIRD  PERIOD  

• Philbin now acting captain of Notre Dame. Neither team changed its lineup. Madigan kicked off for Notre Dame. McCreight ran the ball back 15 yards from the five yard line. McCreight slipped off Notre Dame's left tackle for .two yards. Bahan took McCreight's punt to the W and J 45-yard line, a gain of ten yards. 
Miller tore around the W and J right end for seven yards. Bahan gained two yards at center. Bahan made Notre Dame's first down in a plunge at the W and J left Guard. Ball on W and J's 32-yard line. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J left end. On a criss-cross play Brandy failed at the W and J right side. Stobbs broke up a Notre Dame forward pass: 
Brandy's attempt at a placement goal at the 40-yard line was blocked and Brandy recovered on the W'and J 38-yard line. Bahan broke through the W and J line for 15 yards and first down. Bahan again carried the ball, taking it four yards at W and J's left tackle. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J right tackle. 
Pearson made first' down on the W and J 15-yard line. Henry tossed Bahan for a loss of two yards at the W and J left end. Miller tried a forward pass, but Stein got him for a five-yard loss before he could throw the ball. 
Ruble got Bahan's kick and returned it to the W and J 17-yard line. Brandy signaled for a fair catch on McCreight's punt; he was tackled, and W and J drew a fifteen yard penalty, the ball being on the W and J 25-yard line. Brandy gained one yard at W and . J's right tackle. A forward pass, Pearson to Bahan, was incomplete. Stobbs broke up another forward pass. 
AVitli Bahan holding the ball at the 35-yard line. Brandy kicked a placement goal. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
Stein kicked off for Washington and Jefferson. Philbin received the ball and was thrown on the Notre Dame 33-yard line. Brandy went out of bounds for no gain. Third period ended. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
FOURTH PERIOD 

Bahan gained three yards at W and J's right side. 
Miller hit the same side for six more. Henry blocked 
Miller's punt. Miller tore back and recovered on the 
four-3'ard line. Miller punted from back of his own 
goal. Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 
35-yard line. 
Tressel slammed through Notre Dame's left tackle for four yards. King dropped McCreight for a three-yard loss at the Notre Dame right end. Carroll caught a forward pass from McCreight and gained four yards. McCreight failed at a try at drop field'goal at the 33­yard line, the ball going over the goal line. Notre Dame put the ball in scrimmage on the 20-yard line. 
Brandy failed to gain the W and J right tackle. 
Pearson was stopped for no gain at the W and J right 
end. Bahan, on a quick dive at the W and J left guard, 
gained two yards. King threw Stobbs in his tracks 
on the W and J 46-yard line, when he caught Miller's 
punt. A forward pass, McCreight to Stein, gained six 
yards. 

Stobbs jammed through center for a first: down. 
Tressel caught a forward-pass from McCreight and ran 
eight yards. Stobbs garnered two yards more and a 
first down. A forward pass, McCreight to Stobbs, 
gained six j'^ards. W and J failed on the next forward 
pass. Notre Dame broke up a forward pass. 
Notre Dame took the ball on downs on its 22-yard 
line when a W and J forward pass failed.. Notre Dame 
failed in two plays at the line. Notre Dame failed for 
the third time, 'Bahan carrying the ball. Miller 
punted out of bounds on the W and J 25-yard line. 
McCreight's punt was allowed to roll along the field, 
going to Notre Dame on its 22-yard line. Pearson was 
thrown on the Notre Dame iS-yard line when he 
caught McCreight's punt. Stein throwing him back 
five yards when tackled. 
Smith replaced Stein and Stein went in for Garbisch. 
Bahan got three yards at the W and J left guard. 
The same play on the other side failed to gain. Brandy 
was stopped for no gain at center, as the game was 
concluded. Final score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
Hayes L E Carroll Andrews L T Henry Zoia L G Wimberly Rydzewski C [...Guy Degree.^ R G Straw Philbin R T..._:._„ : Garbisch King..._ f R E Stein Bahan Q Stobbs Pearson:. L H Tressel Brandy...: R H. Ruble Miller. „. F. McCreight 
Notre Dame .-O 
o '3 Washington and Jefferson—.•. b o O O
o 

Substitutions—Notre Dame: Madigan for Ryd­zewski, Stine for Madigan. Washington and Jefferson: Stein for Garbisch,' Smith for Stein. Goal from place­ment—^Brandy. Missed goals from placement— Brandy, McCreight. Missed drop goal from field— McCreight. Officials: Referee—^Fred J. Crolius, Dartmouth. Umpire—Harry S. Hammond, Michigan. Linesman—^J. G. Diu-fee, Williams. Time of periods— Foiu: of 13 minutes each.—Pittsburgh Dispatch. 

TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
All-American Teams. 
BY PAUL PURMAN. 
Of the Cleveland Leader. 
B olen, Ohio State End Von Heimburg, Navy End Cobb, Syracuse — tackle Hauser, Minnesota —._. taclde Sies, U. of Pittsburgh... guard Culver, Michigan guard Rydzewski, Notre Dame center ' Strupper, Ga. Tech quarterback Oliphant, Army. •. halfback Harley, Ohio State halbfack Berry, TJ. of Pennsylvania:^ fullback 
Honorable mention as of ail-American calibre: 
Andrews, Gipp, Brandy. 
** * 
By HAZE CLARKE 
Of the Indiana Daily Times. 
FIRST TEAM POSITION SECOND TEAM Royse, DePauw.. L E.., Risley, Indiana Hathaway, Indiana L T. Hannicker, Wabash Julius, Indiana L G... Bake, Rose Poly. Rj^dzewski, Notre Dame...-C Pierce, Indiana Ingles, Indiana R G Bondurant, DePauw Berns, Purdue R T. Philbin, Notre Dame King, Notre Dame R E-_ Minton, Indiana Craven, Indiana Q—- ..Hume, Purdue Brandy, Notre Dame. D H Allen, Purdue Bahan, Notre Dame R H Huering, Indiana Huffine, Purdue F. .Keever, Indiana 
4*fr 


An All-American Finish. ^ ^ 
BY WALTBR CAMPUS. 
The football season is now over: it closed Sunday afternoon on the Minims' campus. There was a game whose object, "as lucidly explained by one of the rooters, was to deter­mine which of the two second teams was second. In other words, it was a contest to pick the next-best team to the best, or, in still other words, to establish the altogether second­ary importance of the third team. Accordingly, the game was one of prime importance. Alas for its complete chronicle in history, the present writer missed the-£rst half. He. came upon a scene of alread}'^ deiveloped conflict, the tides of battle' swaying now this way, now that, the spectators as definitely cleft as were the opposing factions on the field. There was no neutral anywhere, and the \vriter, who came in the dispositions of an innocent bystander, soon found himself a raging partisan. He picked the team that was at a disadvantage, a strong east wind in their face and the score against them, by one point, seven to six. The ill wind 
blew, and more calamity befell. After a brilliant stand "on. their own two-yard line, from which the}'' forced their opponents back and steadily back until the ball went over on downs, their punt, alas, wa's blocked, and the agile foe had fallen on the ball behind the goal, and the' score stood thirteen to six against my .team. 
What happened now was in its wa}'- Homeric, A quarter was up, but the teams—some inscru­table ground rule, perhaps—did not .change goals. Ten.minutes remained to play. In those ten minutes, with the odds all against them, still fighting into that twenty-mile gale and against the storm of derision • which blew from the victorious non-combatants, the weaker team stiffened, and plunged and plowed, gaining four yards here and six yards there, lining up with speed and snapping the ball with precision, with no trick pla5'^s but on straight football, twice in ten minutes they crossed their oppo^ nent's goal line, and the game Avas won. There were no long runs, mind you; there was only a series of short, steady, consistent gains, without the waste of a minute of time. It was a triumph of brains and determination over time and tide, that bitter December wind might reasonably have chilled older and stouter warriors. 
There were no long gains, I have said, but it soon became evident that whenever the ball went for six yards or more it was carried by the left halfback, a chunky Olympian who couldn't in all his life have seen more "than ten Decembers. Of course, there were other good players on both sides, but it was this battling halfback that led his battered team­mates-down .the field, making the second of his two touchdowns just as the whistle blew, the triumphant whistle that blew his team into" first place against all the winds that blew. 
Of the rejoicing that followed, not even Homer could fittingl}'" write, and it- occurred to us that if some of the bored and jaded reporters and special writers of sports who are drawing a comfortable salary by. describing the over­coats they themselves wear at an All-American clash, it occurred to us that even these hardened survivors of their own youthful enthusiasms might have known in the keen December, wind that swept the Minims' campus last Sunda}'­afternoon a tingling reminiscence of a time when some things mattered, when perhaps even football was real and worth while. 
Postcript: The name of the battling halfback is, by the way, Smith.^ 
Co 

NQTRE DAME HAS BEEN FOOMNG 'Etl THIS VEPiR WITK HARVARD AND YALE WRANGLED SO HELMETS MADi: To LOOK UKt 
Co MUCH IN AN OLD GAME THKT TMPY 

A roOT^ALL HAD TO FINISH IT OUT 8Y MOONUGHT 
l­
o 

WONT 
> ^ -..'" 

OVER THE CROSS-BAR . I T COUNTED A6 A GOAL AND WOM THE GAME FOR PRINCETON. 
tXETER WAS BEftT l5?J-0 av HARVARD 
^EVCRM HAVt 
DILLON - o^lhe CARHSLE INDIANS, 
MAOL BRILLIAMT RUMS ­5HPPED THE BALL UNDER •^^\E BftCK OF HIS JERSEY 
TO THE WRONG GOAL 
AMD RAN 105 YDS To A TOUCH DOWN - BEATING HARVARD 
FADS IN FOOTBALL. •—The Commercial Advertiser, New Yorli. 
J\ 



176 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Safety Valve. 

More care has been taken this year in selecting the all-hall teams than ever before, owing to the high price of soap and the absence of steam in Sorin Hall. We have tried to be absolutely unfair in the selecting of the players as some" of them were relatives of the selecting board. Let us say at the outset that Bernard Heffernan of Sorin. Avould have been our.first choice for fullback were it not "that he is ineligible, having played three years "on", ttie.-VALVE team. 'This year's team is not an informal one like the' Harvard and Yale elevens. It is very formal, and the games played by these players will be formal affairs. Evening clothes like pajamas and bath-robes, however, will not be used, because the games ^yjll, be plaj^ed in the afternoon. The new Prince Albert" style of football suit mil be the dress and the stove-pipe • style of head-gear. The plaj'-ers of this team will treat the ball as tenderly as though it were a baby. They may caress it or pat it or embrace it, but far be it from these perfect beings to 
fall on the ball. The player must take the ball gently place it under the right arm, raise his hat to the tackle or guard through whom the play is supposed to go, saying, "pardon me" and proceed. Should his oppo­nent be so ungracious as to impede his headway the man carrying the ball may shake his finger naughtilj'^ at his opponent exclaiming, "Gracious me!" 
Himebaugh, A  L E  .Walsh  
Cook, N  L T  ..  ,...AValsh'  
SA\'ift, Richard  L G  Sorin  
Berra, H  C  Brownson  
Butler, J  R G  Brownson,  
Newgass, M  R T.  ....Brownson  
Scates. W.  R E:...—  .St. Edward  
Durnin,  J  IQ,____-.  Coi-by  
Foohey, P  R Hl.'.l_i  ..".-'.:.,Corby  
Riley, E  '  LH.1:.;:  .._'_1.'-Walsh  
Garibaldi, D  .F„....JA.„.lA.^A.-^.^.:VCarroll  

We have placed Adelbert Himebaugh at^left-'end-on­account of his fleet footedness. VHe is',, a!> veritable butterfly who would sweep down the _field-bn. punts, and tackle spectators who happened^to'. be','minding their own business on the side lines. Our-one fear is that we would not have sufficient bread arid ijam to feed this wing-man. A sandwich or pop-corn'.\wagbn . would be liable to distract Himebaugh in the middle of a play and he would leave the field never to return. Adelbert (a pretty name indeed) has already won the title of "Champion Rester of America." He certainly can. rest. 
Nathan Cook has been placed at left tackle on account of his gall. This young pest would so annoy.opposing players that they would give'up ih> disgust.'j He is -a bright fresh boy with dark blue .eyes and a nose. His cute little face causes acute pain when one has s'een.hini work it for five minutes. :, .;-. T 
5 --.I.­

Richard Swift would make a guard,-e pluribus unum, sine qua non, sic semper.tyrannust'-He'^uses his feet and hands well and his head would be good f orstopping opposing players oir something. He knows Jittle about football, but he certaiiily loves his teachers, which. must be considered in these times of."war. Richard comes from Sorin Hall and will carry a fan in his right hand to distinguish him from Venus de quarter Mile. 
Berra our centre is a buster of a boy. He is bulging out of his clothes on all sides and in all directions. He is not very good at carrying classes, but could, we think, carry a football if it were tied to him. He is a A'ery refined sort of hippopotamus and is as gentle as a locomotive. He might sit down in the middle of the field and' refuse to play if he were tired but a little petting would bring him along. This is Berra's third and last year on- the team. 
'' J. Butler, better known as Mary, or Marie, or May, as you choose, is a'whale of a player. Aside from the fact that he's the laziest player on the team and hasn't got "pep" enough to breathe regularly, he is a bright, fresh,—yes, very fresh boy with a mouth like a bath tub and a couple of piano-legs th'at could not be broken with an axe. - Nothing would please the crowd better 
•"than to see Mary going down the field carrying the football like a shopping bag and throwing kisses to all the spectators. 
Mitchell Newgass, our right tackle would scare his opponent stiff. One look at his phiz would make the strongest player faint. He shaved last Labor Day and has been bragging about it ever since. He has the cutest little smile and his voice is like the gurgle of a rain pipe. Aside from being a good bunter and bean­bag artist, he can plaj"- dickerj^-dickery-dock. Mitchell, take the ball and proceed. 
From St. Edward Hall we have chosen Dicky Scates as end. He has been at the end of nearly everything ' in St. Edward for the last •.^''ear. He is a sure tackier as far as we can judge from watching him tackle his meat at dinner. 
Our quarterback is Mr. James Durnin. We- call him 
•mister because he is such a manlj-^ fellow. He knows as much about-;running a team as he does about running an jiirship' or-a hair shirt and that's going some. Mister ijiirniri refuses to call signals" because they remind: Kinl;':6I his math class in which he bats 40%. If h^M^;:ould"-stay around- the school long enough to :'.get aviquainted with the team he Avould be a marvel. ,' We^.nave Paul Foohey. of Corby placed'at halfback. He is .half .back? in\his classes and would find little 
. trouble ill doing' the same in football. His ability.to fake punt, or .'to'iake an5'^thing else has led to our ' 
'"choice. He has a viblet colored voicie and his honeyed words fall'like inortar on the heads of his admirers. Once given the^balr'he would in all probability look at the quarterback and say ".AVhy-'don't you send it by parcel post?" ;•;'•''•••. ^ 
E. Clark Riley an angel-face youth , with a head that looks like a sunburned pancake,' has been placed at halfback because when • the different rectors fired him out of their halls we had no other place left for him. He is such a sweet boy, with winning ways and kidney feet. He steps on his. neck when he runs, but other­wise he would be a darling halfback. 
And how .dear reader comes oiir fullback, Garabaldi of Carroll. His'speed has been the one factor that has stood by him.'- "It certainly has stood. We never saw speed stand so long in one place before. His knowledge of handling inonkey wrenches and pie plates is uncanny. Once^ started with the ball he' would be liable to go to Elkhart or Goshen. He will carry a sewing machine on his left'arm so as to be recognized by the spectators. 





