
£ 6'6'7>T>'a"0"B 0 6 0 0 0 0 6 0"0'B 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 fl'Ot roTnroiro"o"o"oTo"oo"oo"o"o"o"oTnnroTj"o"o"o"o"oK 
0mp§§yp 
Home for the holidays? 
THE CHESTERFIELD OUTERCOAT 
Traditional in style, this classic Herringbone ^f)Q SO fashion is timeless. Choose from the gray and 
with velvet collar 

olive shades, with velvet collar if yoii wish. 
$74.50 
Try one on today. 

I 
o o 
t t 


THE VESTED SUIT 
I 
University-styled with natural shoulder and vest in the most popular colors and fabrics. Tailored with great care and detail for the impeccable look you want. 

Buy and enjoy your holiday apparel now 
o 


$79.50 
. you pay 
ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD 
ONE-THIRD 
in June in July in August 
NEVER a service or carrying charge 
o o 
LaJiJt.9.!t.9.9M.9.9.9M 9 9 0 0 0 9 0 i.9.0.9,tUL9J>.0J> .9.9„0J.O-9-Q-O.O-OXg 



GILBERT'S 
ON THE CAMPUS NOTRE DAME 
ya'aya'aTa a'aaTa'a'a-a* a a'a'aa'a'a'a"a"aT(nR ra"a"B"aTa'aa~a"6'a'a a a a cTraxa"a'B"a'a'a'a a'a'ai 
I 


For the thrilling '66 season 
1 
% 
% 


to the team to the coaches .. 
I o \ 

to the men of Notre Dame 
I 
I 

iJ^jl^JHJ^J^J^J^J^tJiJ^J^J^J^J^J^0 Lfl.0JULgJ».flJLO.O.0.O.0,0.O.O.0.O.O.0.g 

^.ILBERrS 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FIHED 
FAST OPTICAL REPAIR SERVICE Sir-: .|jJist-a ',.JS, 
mii-m 
DR. M. MIHERMAYER 
Optomefrisf 

228 S. MICHIGAN 
(Next (o Penneys) 234-6B71 
CELEBRATING OUR 
40TH ANNIVERSARY 
1926-1966 

Reco Sporting Goods 
113 N. Main St. 
Next to Oliver Hotel 
Contact Lens Specialist 

Dr. T. R. PHot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 

212 S. Michigan 234-4874 


RUBIN CLEANERS 
217 E. JEFFERSON 
1st Comer Across the River 
Downtown—on the Bus Line 
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years! 

•
 The Finest in Dry Cleaning 

•
 Expert Shirt Laundering 

•
 Complete Laundry Service 


Save 10% Cash & Cany 
ill 
tm 
mkM 

Now on Sale at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
PREPARE... 
MARDI GRAS 
with Old Spice Lime 
Precisely what things depends on what you have in mind. Whatever it is, Old Spice LiME can help. Its spicy, lime-spiked aroma is very persuasive... but so subtle, even the most wary woman is trapped before she knows it! Worth trying? You bet it is! 
Old Spice LIME Cologne, After Shave, Gift Sets. By the makers of original Old Spice. 
ST. JOSEPH TRAVEL AGENCY 
ITS NOT TOO LATE /1 / 
To Make Arrangements for Vacations 
Christmas — Easter — Spring Vacations, etc. 
W e arrange Group Transportation any time, 
anywhere .. . 

CALL 234-4081 FOR INFORMATION 202 So. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. Main Lobby, St. Joseph Bank 
The Huddle 
We salute the 1966 Fighting Irish 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 
. . . . STOP at the HUDDLE . . for that little snack between classes 
Thank you for the many treasured memories that you have provided for us in the past season. You are deserving of all the honors that come to you as "America's Best Football Team.'' 
We especially salute our class^nates who have participated: 
Rocky Bleier  Chuck Grable  Dave Martin  Steve Quinn  
Mike Burgener  Dave Haley  Paul May  Kevin Rassas  
Bill Dainton  Dan Harshman  Mike McGill  Tom Schoen  
Dan Dickman  Mike Heaton  Tom O'Leary  Jim Smithberger  
Lou Fournier  Rudy Konieczny  Hugh O'Malley  Al Van Huifel  
Tom Furlong  Mike Kuzmicz  John Pergine  Ed Zewinski  

THE CLASS OF 1968 
The Scholastic 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Notre Dame Scholastic Dec. 9, 1966 Vol. 108, No. 9 
editor-in-chief 
MEKE BRADLEY 
Staff 
LARRY BRIGHT TONY INGRAFFEA CARL MAGEL MIKE MC ADAMS JAMIE MCKENNA 
layout editor 
MIKE SEIBERT 
business manager 
KEN" SOCHA 

photography 
FRANK J. CLARKE BOB CUCCIAS MIKE FORD TIM FORD JIM LAUGHEAD JAMIE MC KENNA ERNESTO SOL TED STANSKY 

The Football Review is a regular issue of the Scholastic. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the Scholastic is accepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. 
Dec. 9, 1966 
THE FOOTBALL SEASON:  
FANTASY & REALITY  9  
President Hesburgh comments on thewithin realistic bounds, and salutes theporters in their national championship  value  of team year.  football and  its  kept sup­ 

NOT SINCE 1949 10 
For seventeen years the top rung has eluded Notre Dame. From South Bend to Los Ang-eles, Editor Mike Bradley follows their climb to the top. 
THE SEASON 13 
From the Los Angeles Times to the Philadelphia Inquirer, the nation's sports writers give a game-by-game account of the Notre Dame season. 
THE TEAJM 29 
A pictorial essay—outstanding performances of both -team­work and individual brilliance. The commentary is sup­plied by "The Phantom," anonymous locker-room author of 
The Phantom Speaks. 
WE DID IT WITH CLASS 36 
"We could either go down in the record books as a great team . . . or be thrown into that large group of good also­rans in Notre Dame's history." An interview with the Notre Dame team captain, Jim Lynch. 
THEY COULD BE THE START OF SOMETHING BIG 37 
For the first time, Notre Dame freshmen entered into intercollegiate competition. The Pitt freshmen fell 29-0, then the Michigan State frosh, the Friday night before the game of the year, were defeated by a last minute field goal, 30-27. 
THE STATISTICS 38 
Individual and team, single game and season—the record of a national champion. 
THE COVER 

Artist Mike Seibert recreates a team tackle against Michigan State. It was such tactics that prompted the warning from coach after coach, "Nobody runs against Notre Dame." 
The Scholastic 

THE FOOTBALL SEASON: 
FANTASY AND REALITY 
BY REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH 
A NOTHER FOOTBALL SEASON" has passed, another great -^^ and even fantastic one, thanks to Ara Parseghian, his staff, and his stalwart warriors who practiced hard, played hard against the best, and solidified a proud Notre Dame tradition of doing everything with style, spirit, and excellence. All of you helped too, and share the pride of many challenges well met. 
A football season is a lot like hfe, in microcosm. The season begins with warm and sunny days filled with optimism and hope. As the season progresses, the sunshine wanes, the warmth diminishes, and optimistic hope is qualified by the hard lifelike realities of fierce competition, unexpected injuries, and the innate dif­ficulty of sustained human effort. The days grow colder, the rains come, and optimistic vision becomes more realistic. It is always easier to declare the top position in anything than to reach it. While hope perdures, ultimate victory is again a fickle lady, ever to be wooed with all one's might, but never in this life to be securely or forever won. Each week is a new encounter; each season a new challenge. Life is hke that too, because it is spent in time, amid aU the vicissitudes of personal trials and existential diflBculties. Anyone who thinks otherwise lives in a dreamworld where reality has been entirely replaced by fantasy. But a football sea­son, like life, is authentic and real, as well as somewhat fantastic. 
So another football season passes, with all its very real excitement, effort, hope, youthful optimism, and ultimate success, the National Championship. You have lived with it and through it. The cheers aU fade away into the dusk. The tissue-draped trees and lawns are cleaned up again for the last time. We return to the real and hard world of books, quizzes, and work yet to be done before the Christmas vacation begins. The stadium, stark and silent, is etched against a gray wintry sky. Nearby, the Library beckons with its myriad lights. 
Was it all worthwhile, in this time and in this place? 
 think so, if we see the deeper meaning of it all. Reality is enriched by fantasy, if fantasy is allowed to illuminate reality, but not to engulf it. In another age, as harsh as our own, there were jousts and jesters, tournaments and trials of skill and strength to lighten the harshness and illumine the lessons of life. A foot­ball season has all the same qualities for our day. Life would be dull indeed without these interludes which, in 
Dec. 9, 1966 
their own midtwentieth-century American way, can 
explain life to us, make it more deeply understandable 
and, therefore, livable. 
I say aU of this in the face of those who in a seem­ingly superior intellectual fashion depreciate, denigrate, and deplore the football season in our land. Colhsion on the gridiron is still better, I believe, than violence in the streets. Both have their own relationship to equality of opportunity in America, one positive and one negative. 
I would hope that in the larger university com­munity in America we might see the football season, with all its appeal to young and old alike, in the per­spective of a larger meaning of learning, and educa­tion, and life. The football season can, of course, be overdone, wrenched out of all perspective, so that even the fantastic becomes the phantasmagoric, as is done by prolonging the season unduly, indulging in an in­creasing orgy of bowl games, the psychedelic dream makers of collegiate football. 
Kept within proper bounds of time, place, and em­phasis, I believe strongly that the football season is indeed worthwhile. The noise is ephemeral and does die away. The display, the spectacle, the color, the excite­ment linger only in memory. But the spirit, the will to excel, and the wiU to win perdure. These human qualities are larger and much more important than the passing events that occasion them, just as the ebb and flow of all our daily efforts add up to something greater and more enduring if they create within each one of us a person who grows, who understands, who really lives, who does not merely survive, but who prevails for a larger, more meaningful victory in time and, hopefully, in eternity as well. 
NOT SINCE 1949 
In eight games Notre Dame asserted their claim to the number-one ranking and then earned the right to their first national championship in seventeen years by holding Michigan 
State to a stand-off and crushing Southern California. 
T N THE Coliseum locker room before ^ the final sixty minutes of the sea­son, the sixty minutes which would produce a final evaluation on the bal­lots of the nation's coaches and writers as to who would claim supremacy in college football, the immediacy of the issue was spelled out on the coaches' blackboard. "We have waited seventeen years for this moment." 
Outside the players' quarters Tom Pagna explained the inevitable un­certainty of the moment to a friend. "We've done everything possible to prepai'e them. Now we can only keep pur fingers crossed." Keep them crossed that the defense can hold Southern Cal scoreless and maybe give the offense field position for a field goal or an easy drive, al­though no points will come easy to this offense. Hanratty, Goeddeke and Bleier are out. Eddy is questionable, and as late as Wednesday, Coley O'Brien could not be counted on to recover from the previous Saturday's ordeal. Considering the present, the focal point of the season for every­one else concerned with the sport, the Michigan State game, was casting its long, frustrating shadow on the mo­ment, making it more anticlimaetic 
By MIKE BRADLEY 
and unpredictable than it should have 
been.  
Noti'e  Dame  was  emotionally  
drained,  physically  battered  and  
mentally  frustrated  following  the  

classic duel with State, not so much because of the tie, but due more to the effort exerted in playing the con­test. Coupled with these factors, the second guessing of Ara Parse­ghian's course of action in the last minute at Lansing which flooded the papers the entire week prior to Notre Dame's final game did little to aid the Irish in preparation for Southern Cal. Conscious of his relations with the voters, Ara spent much of the week defending his team's claim to the top ranking and his own decision to run out the clock against IMichigan State. He cited Notre Dame's poor field position, Michigan State's preventive defense, and his team's inability to score on the long bomb for fifty-nine previous minutes. For good reason he refused to mention or at least adequately emphasize the fact that even if he wanted to take the long shot he was unable to. He had no one to throw the ball. On the previ­ous series of downs the coadies had noticed that Coley O'Brien was gradually losing his reflexes and his 
perception, the normal reaction of a diabetic under abnormal pressure. When Notre Dame took over for the final series of the game, Ara was seriously considering sending in third-string quarterback. Bob Belden. But he finally decided to stay with O'Brien to avoid any possible error in execution on a handoff. With a game still to play and O'Brien's condi­tion little improved at midweek, any argument involving Notre Dame's lack of a healthy quarterback would be to Southern Cal's advantage in preparing their game plan for Sat­urday. 
The shadow of the State game, the distracting events of the week and the imcertain status of O'Brien and Eddy gave Notre Dame "every excuse in the world to lose," as Jim Lynch remarked later. But when the mo­ment came Notre Dame convinced the voters and themselves that they de­served the label of national cham­pions by running up the highest score ever compiled against the Trojans. Their mottos, "Pride" and "No Break­ing Point" meant more than any shadows. 
"This game was just like starting' 1964 all over again," said Pete Du­ranko of the Purdue opener. "We 
The Scholastic 
• »-> •• nir*" 

didn't know what to expect and we had a lot to prove." Undoubtedly, Notre Dame wasn't expecting the ini­tial touchdown of the season, a 94­yard runback with a recovered fumble, an opening-game break which might have unnerved lesser teams but, only seconds later Nick Eddy slammed the door on a Purdue bid for an upset by taking the kick­off back 97 yards, the longest touch­down run of the season for Notre Dame. Later in the first half the two gifted sophomores began to make the plays that made the headlines all season long. Watching Hanratty's strong, graceful delivery and Sey­mour's unmatchable speed spread Purdue's defenses, there would be no repeat of the nine-man lines of '65. Seymour set two season records, pull­ing in 13 passes for 276 yards, and now Duranko could say, "We had a lot to prove it with." 
At Evanston Nick Eddy again provided the impetus with a 56-yard dash over right tackle early in the game. The bombers proved they were genuine, connecting nine more times as the offense achieved the desired balance, 225 yards passing and 226 yards running. The defense showed its goal line strength, shutting off the Wildcats with five yards in four downs from the seven-yard line. 
The offense continued to startle op­ponents with the ability to score al­most at will, piling up 35 half-time points against the Army. The de­fensive secondary recorded five inter­ceptions and Kevin Hardy dispelled all doubts about his weak back^ col­lecting 18 tackles. 
North Carolina was next but before the Tarheels arrived a rumor circu­lated that Hanratty would not play, that he might be lost for the season. The rumor wasn't far from the truth. As late as Friday night an operation was discussed. Throwing with only three-quarters delivery he still man­aged his weekly scoring strike to Seymour. The defense blocked six Tarheel passes after sending their first two quarterbacks to the side­lines with injuries. 
The tables were turned at Norman. Seymour injured his instep, and Mike McGill tore ligaments in his knee. Fol­lowing Coach Ray's directive. "Don't let them know you're hurt,'" McGill hopped fifty yards across the field on his good leg and collapsed on the sidelines. Despite the loss of these players, the Irish reached a mid-
Dec. P, 1966 
season peak, totaling 38 points and limiting Oklahoma's ground attack to 39 yards. 
At Philadelphia John Pergine was moved to outside linebacker and re­sponded with three interceptions while the offense relied on Larry Conjar's 97 yards on the ground to offset Terry Hanratty's worst passing day of the year. 
Unable to get untracked the Irish offense picked up only seven points in the first half against Pittsburgh. But Nick Eddy doubled the score taking the second-half kickoff back 85 yards for his fourth long-dis­tance run of the vear. Tom Schoen followed with a 63-yard punt return and the Panthers were routed. 
Any worries that the Irish were looking ahead to M.S.U. were erased the first occasion Nick Eddy had to carry the ball against Duke. He sprinted 77 yards off tackle being untouched en route to a 43-0 half-time lead. The Irish tried everything, in­cluding an interception and lateral by linebacker John Horney. Ara's half-time message was brief: "Hi, fel­las," was all he could muster. 
The half time at Lansing was marked by an atmosphere of con­trolled urgency resulting from two factors: 1) Notre Dame was losing at the half for the first time in two years and 2) the team sensed that because of the loss of Eddy and Han-ratty, the balance of the game would be left in the hands of the defense. 
Twice in the fourth quarter Tom Schoen brought Notre Dame within range with interceptions but as un­pleasant as the outcome was to thirty-three million viewers and every sportswriter in the country, by the fourth quarter the game was des­tined to remain deadlocked. State was unable to advance past midfield and Notre Dame no longer had the offensive tools to capitalize on good field position. Bleier was out. His replacement, Gladieux was injured, and nowhere on the Irish sideline was there someone capable of throw­ing the long baU. 
The locker room was quiet aftei' the game. There was the feeling of frustration and disappointment which emanated from an unsettled issue, especially in the eyes of the seniors who saw their dream of perfection now the least bit tainted. But gradually the talk turned to the point that they hadn't lost and that a win on the coast would pi'ove to the na­tion what had not been resolved against the Spartans. 
Notre Dame went about disman­tling the Trojans with unexpected efficiency. From the initial drive of 18 well-executed plays to Dave Martin's fourth-quarter return of an errant pass Notre Dame displayed the same poise, finesse and sound fundamentals that were evident all year, even in dark moments of the Michigan State game. It is a tribute to the coaching staff and to the great leadership this team experienced that Notre Dame could rebound from in­juries, disappointment and the in­evitable fatigue which accompanies any team's final effort to stake such a strong claim to their stated pre­season goal — the national champion­ship. 
The Scholastic 

Dec. 9, 1966 
FRIDAY, HANRATTY SLEPT WELL 
National television and "Sports Illustrated" begin their coveras^e of the 'fiG season in South Bend and the Irish respond by unveiling their bombers. 
bv JOHN UXDEKWOOD 
ell A Xru Ai.i." CopM.'^lu Octobei 3 I'.iGt) —Sjioits IHustralfd. 
\ LL LAST WEEK as Notre Dame prepared to settle a score '^ with Purdue Ara Parseghian was careful to speak softly when in the vicinity of Terry Hanratty. "I want to be casual, to be relaxed," Parseghian explained. "I don't want to get him nervous like me." It was not easy, be­cause Parseghian is the Notre Dame football coach and he is also a chatty fellow with impressible nerve endings. As he talked he had the pop-eyed look of a man who was hold­ing his breath. 
Hanratty is Notre Dame's new quarterback. His uni-foi^m number is 5, which used to be the number of Paul Hornung, the famous swinger. Terrence Hugh Hanratty is stationary. Terry Hugh is 18 years old. He has soft eyes and sunken cheeks and a reputation for being a lamb. When he is sitting down he has a tentative look about him, as if 5'ou could remove his chair without altering his position. 
In the final days of what the guard at the Notre Dame gate called "superclosed" practices for Purdue, Ara Par­seghian could not believe the way Terry Hanratty was throwing the ball. Wh?Lt was more, he could not believe the way another sophomore, James Patrick Seymour, split end, Berkley. Mich., age 19, was catching the football. 
The thing was, last year Notre Dame had a rosewater passing attack to go with its strong running, and on more than a few occasions the opposition had found out what Parseghian knew to be true. "On third down nine we were in jail," he said. 
In the match-up of quarterbacks with Purdue, it would 
be Rookie Hanratty against All-America Bob Griese, a 
brilliant performer who had started 22 straight games and 
had never once looked anything less than terrifying. The 
job he did on Notre Dame last year —- 19 of 22 passes for 
283 yards, and the winning touchdown in the final seconds 
of a 25-21 game — was remembered with pain around 
South Bend. 
It was doubtful, therefore, that the Notre Dame defense 
would be anywhere but up for the game. "The coaches 
do not have to say a thing to get us ready for Griese." 
said Tackle Pete Duranko. The next big job, then, was to 
keep Hanratty calm, and, of coui'se, there was no way to 
do that — big opening game, big rivalry, national tele­
vision. Pressure, pressure, pressure. 
Was Hanratty sufficiently terrorized? No, Hanratty was 
not. Hanratty was calm. He slept well. He had no trou­
ble swallowing. His coaches found they could even kid 
him. Tom Pagna, the foreman of the offense, told Hanratty 
of his own first game at Miami of Ohio. "We were warm­
ing up before the game and I was surprised how relaxed 
I was. Then somebody threw me a pass and I couldn't 
raise my hands to catch it. The ball hit me right in the 
helmet. 'Oh, dear God,' I thought, 'I'm paralyzed.' " 
Hanratty laughed. 
John Ray, the defensive coach, cut in. Ray had re­
cruited Hanratty out of Butler High. "Don't you let him 
worry you, Terry," he boomed. "The defense will win the 
game anyway, and if you do all right I'll let you become 
a linebacker." 
The plan would be to give Purdue the ball first, estab­
lish the defense and allow Hanratty a chance to get used 
to the ringing crowd noise. Then, after a couple of run­
ning plays, he would be free to throw the ball at his plea­
sure. "I would love to see them try to cover Seymour one­
on-one," said Parseghian. "One-on-one he'll beat somebody 
and get us on the scoreboard." 
Hanratty did not pass until Notre Dame's second pos­session. Then he wound up, and while being hit from the side completed a 42-yarder to Seymour. Seymour had to come back on the ball and made the catch between three defenders, but it was the beginning that set a pattern, maddening to Purdue and intoxicating to the 59,075 peo­ple snuggled into Notre Dame Stadium. 
Seymour is 6 feet 4, 205 pounds and lean. He is a sprinter and has the essentials of a good receiver: 1) greedy hands, 2) a change of pace and 3) composure in traffic. On straight fly patterns and one-on-one covei'age in the first half against Purdue, he consistently beat his man. Purdue Coach Jack MoUenkopf admitted later that "we didn't realize how good he was." 
Hanratty ended ail doubt with a seven-yard touch­down pass to Seymour to push the final score to 26-14. Seymour leaped to catch it, with 6-foot Halfback Bob Mangene flailing at him pitifully in the end zone. It was Seymour's 13th reception ot the day, giving him 276 j'ards gained in all. And no receiver in Notre Dame history, not Jack Snow or Jim Kelly or Leon Hart or Jim Mutscheller, ever had such a day. 
Hanratty finished with 16 completions in 24 tries for 304 yards. Living his dream — he was the last man out of the Notre Dame dressing room — Hanratty seemed to want to remember everything, even every drop of his shower. When he finally emerged, John Ray grabbed him by a bare shoulder and said, "Hey, boy, aren't you glad I brought you here?" 
"Yessir, Coach, you bet," said Terry Hanratty. "You bet I am." 
The Scholastic 


SATURDAY, SEYMOUR SPEARED NINE 
Against Northwestern Hanrattj^ and Seymour played with the same genius of Purdue, and not for the rest of the sear son would the two team as brilliantly. The "Chicago Sun-Times" describes the rout. 
by EDGAK aiUNZEL 
'"PERRY HANRATTY and Jim Seymour, probably the great­
-*• est Irish battery since Ed Walsh and Billy Sullivan, derived even more satisfaction out of their performance against Northwestern Saturday than they did in their sen­sational debut against Purdue last week. 
And that despite the fact that the Wildcats held them to fewer pass completions and a little less yardage. 
"There was a lot more satisfaction for me, because we proved that last week wasn't just a flash in the pan," said Seymour, a personable young man who is as poised han­dhng a mass of dressing room interviewers as he is in grabbing passes. 
"Our other opponents now will have to respect our passing, and that means our running game will be opened up. They can't play us one way." 
It was Coach Alex Agase's protection against the bomb that unquestionably held dovra Seymour's yardage. He speared nine Saturday for 141 yards, while he nabbed 13 for 274 yards against Purdue. 
Hanratty, the dark-haired quarterback, was just about the same as last week in completion percentage, though lower in yardage. Last week it was 16 out of 24 for 304 yards and Saturday 14 out of 23 for 202 yards. 
"Northwestern was making it a httle tougher for me than Purdue did," said Terry, in fuU agreement with his star receiver. "The ends were boxing me. 
"However, when they occasionally started double cover­age on Jim (Seymour) it left the other fellows like Bob Bleier (four for 49) open for me." 
Coach Ara Parseghian of Notre Dame was generous in his praise of his former team, coached by his bosom buddy, Agase. 
"They put up a scrappy exhibition and they played well," said Ara. "They used more of a zone pass defense than ever before; they took the bomb away from us and gave us the short stuff. So we used a lot of hook passes and short ones between the linebackers. 
"Hanratty and Seymour? Well, frankly I was afraid I was overrating them because I got so enthusiastic about them on the basis of what they showed in practice. How­ever, this should convince everybody because there was no secret about them after Purdue. 
"They've got wonderful poise. Hanratty showed it again today when he had one of his passes intercepted. It didn't rattle him. He came right back, throwing as good as ever. 
"I thought our defense reacted well until I tossed in the reserves in the fourth quarter. They intercepted a couple of passes and then they got reckless and let Rog Murphy get behind them for that TD." 
Agase didn't need any crying towel after the game. In fact, he frankly was proud of the way his outmanned team performed. 
"I was encouraged by the way they went after Notre Dame," said Alex. "They never let up. They fought all the way. 
"If we could have scored that touchdown early in the second quarter after the fumble, we might have made a real dogfight out of it. We needed that. When you're the underdog, a touchdown like that puts the adrenalin in your team. 
"Notre Dame is a great football team, stronger than last year because the offense is better." 
"C^OR NOTRE DAME it was onward and upward today with 
*• Terrence Hugh Hanratty and James Patrick Seymour, 
the sophomore sensationaUsts. 
Hanratty, the 18-year-old who throws the football, and 
Seymour, 19, who catches it, plus a host of helpers shot 
up the Army before 59,075 fans who filled every seat in 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
The score was 35-0 and it might have been 100-0 if 
Ara Parseghian, the humanitarian who coaches here, had 
left his Hanratty-Seymour battery and other regulars in 
the contest for the second half. 
The big guns of the offense sat out the last 30 min­
utes, while the hard-fighting Cadets shut out the second 
team and, in turn, were shut out by a Notre Dame de­
fense that was first string through the third quarter. 
Everyone who had seen or scouted the Fighting Irish 
knew what would happen. 
Hanratty, who had grown a great right arm in 
Butler, Pa., was going to throw to his buddy, the 6-foot­
4-inch Seymour from Berkeley, Mich. He did, 12 times, 
and Seymour caught 8 passes and one touchdown. 
The noisy students in the northwest corner of the 
stadium shouted in unison, "We're No. 1!" They were 
thinking about the news service polls, which each week 
rank the nation's collegiate teams. 
The way to impress the radio announcers in places 
nke Parkersburg, W. Va., who vote in these polls is to 
run up a score on a weak sister. Parseghian resisted the 
temptation, which must have been hard for a coach who 
was getting almost faultless execution from his 22 war­
riors on offense and defense. 
Hanratty tried to throw over Seymour's head, but this 
graceful receiver — a young Del Shofner — cUmbed an 
invisible stepladder again and again to flag the ball. 
His pass-blocking was so good, Hanratty had all after­noon to wait for Seymour to run his deepest patterns against an Army zone defense that had no chance. 
The act began the first time Notre Dame, a four-touchdown favorite in this deglamorized series, went on the attack. Hanratty threw incomplete to Seymour, Then he repeated and hit him for 19 yards. Seven plays later Bob Bleier, the right halfback, scored from the 2 to end a 54-yard drive. 
The Notre Dame defense, led by huge twin terrors on the right side of the line named Alan Page and Kevin Hardy, was certain to force errors out of the Cadets, who belonged back in the Holy Cross-Kansas State league. 
The first error came when Carl Woessner of Army fumbled and Pete Duranko recovered for the home team at West Point's 33. 
Hanratty counted the stitches on the football until Seymour had broken free behind Hank Toczylowski, Then the ball travded like a howitzer shell into the end zone. Seymour nailed it and the scoreboard blinked 13-0. 
Hanratty had Army so rattled with his aerial threat that the draw play, with Larry Conjar or Nick Eddy the carrier, worked just as well as the pass. 
West Point's deepest penetration was to the Notre Dame 22, following a fumble recovery in the fourth period. But the Cadet offense was there for only two plays before an interception gave the ball back to the Irish. 
Which was best, the Irish offense or defense? 
Coley O'Brien and Curt Henegan, regulars after spring practice last April, succeeded Hanratty and Seymour after halftime. They were not quite as good an act, as Notre Dame gained only 125 yards in the second half after 323 in the first. 
Hanratty completed 11 of 20 passes for 195 yards and led the backslappers surrounding Seymour when the two came out of the game together. 
Dec. 9, 1966 
EXECUTION DISPATCHES THE ARMY 
It was no contest, observes the "New York Times," when West Point's imbeatens ran into that sophomore passing pair and a line with picture-book precision. 
UNPRESSURED AND STILL UNBEATEN 
Despite Terry Hanratty's ailing shoulder, Notre Dame 
produces a healthy score. The "World Journal Tribune" 
tells why the Tarheels were no contest. 
by JESSE ABRAMSON 
nr HERB'S MORE^ MUCH MORE^ to Notre Dame's football 
-•- magnificence than the amazing sophomore pass-catch pair of Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour, as the Irish demonstrated yesterday in pulverizing North Carolina's handicapped forces, 32-0, before a full house of 59,075 in wind-blown Notre Dame stadium. 
In rolling to their fourth straight the unbeaten, un­pressured Irish exploited their tremendous power on the ground in every period. 
Fullback Larry Conjar, a 212-pounder who runs like a halfback, buUeted across for the first two touchdowns from the one to end marches of 73 and 55 yards. 
Working on a 20-0 halftime lead, halfback Nick Eddy, who had figured conspicuously in the earlier raids, swept the Tar Heel right flank in a dazzling 52-yard broken-field operation, utilizing sharp cuts three times on a zig-zag tour behind smashing blocks. 
The last touchdown weiit to Notre Dame's second of­fensive unit, with Coley O'Brien directing a 67-yard march despite two clipping penalties and sophomore Bob Gladieux racing the last five yards on a pitchout. 
Conjar and Eddy rushed for 87 and 85 yards, re­spectively, in Notre Dame's 249-yard ground assault to which 183 air yards were added. 
Hanratty paid Uttle attention to the double and triple-teamed patterns his pal Jim was running, while Conjar and Eddy, starting with Notre Dame's third series, ripped off tidy gains-through theTar Heel middle. 
In each of Notre Dame's two scoring drives, Hanratty passed only once, ducking away from a rush to hit tight end Don Gmitter for 16 yards the first time, starting the second drive with a 12-yard toss to Eddy. 
However, when huge Kevin Hardy recovered a Caro­lina fumble, Hanratty did the expected. He hit spUt end Seymour, running free beyond defender Jack Davenport, on the 10. Seymour took the ball in stride over his shoulder. Hanratty threw to Seymour only twice more, neither connecting as the Hanratty-Seymour claque sighed. 
Getting so much mileage from Hanratty's sore shoulder hardly justified Ara Parseghian's locker room statement: 
"It's ironic that both clubs lost key players through injuries." 
Whether the Tar Heels could have scored against the mighty Irish defense is problematical since they never penetrated the N.D. 30 until the last period against Irish reserves. 
But North Carohna had to go the last three quarters this day with a makeshift QB, fullback Tim Karrs, who hadn't played or even practiced quarterback before yester­day, Danny Talbott, the do-it-all Tar Heel who passes, runs, pxmts, and placekicks, and had directed North Caro­lina to a big upset over Michigan, sprained his right ankle badly late in the first period, and two plays later, Jeff Beaver, his understudy, dislocated his shoulder as he moved his team to counter ND's 7-0 lead. 
It was no contest thereafter. 
4 C'npHEY'RE No. 1 in the country as far as I'm concerned, 
•'•unless it's the Green Bay Packers," said Oklahoma Guard Ron Winfrey in the steamy, sullen locker room fol­lowing Notre Dame's 38-0 lacing of the Sooners Saturday. 
And that pretty well sums up the opinion of Coach Jim 
Mackenzie, his staff, the Sooners and the record 63,439 
fans who attended the battle of the unbeatens. 
"They had a fine football team," said Mackenzie. "They 
did everything well. They had fast runners when they 
needed fast runners and strong runners when they needed 
strong runners. We had hoped to go wide on them but 
their ends (Alan Page and Tom Rhoades) did a good job 
keeping us inside. Their inside men (Tackles Pete Du­
ranko and Kevin Hardy) kept a lot of pressure on us the 
second half. Jim Lynch (inside linebacker) blitzed on us 
several times and we didn't pick it up." 
Winfrey drew the sad assignment of blocking Hardy, 
270-pound junior, or Duranko, 235-pound senior, most of 
the afternoon. 
^-*'Their~size-and,strength.was.expected but their quick­
ness surprised me a lot," he said." ' 
In round figures that sums up the Fighting Irish this 
afternoon. They have size, strength and speed and simply 
outclassed the Sooners. 
The atmosphere in the Irish dressing room was ex­
uberant. Shouts of "We're No. 1" greeted the visiting 
press. 
"We didn't expect this," Notre Dame Coach Ara Par­
seghian exclaimed. 
"I don't know what made the difference. I thought it 
would be a hard-fought defensive battle. You never know 
if the breaks are going to go for you or against you. But I 
never expected that score." 
Parseghian had high praise for both his offensive and defensive teams, commenting that Quarterback Terry Han-ratty "hit some clutch passes, and that opened them up for our running game. I'm proud of the way Halfback Nick Eddy performed, too. And Halfback Bob Bleier — he's been a very steady player and outstanding runner all year." 
Parseghian said OU's shovel pass to the halfback "did hurt us some; they hadn't used that before. But in the second half it was inconsistent enough that we could knock it down occasionally for a six- or seven-yard loss. That's a play that can gain you 15 yards, or it can backfire on you." 
"I thought our whole team played an exceptional game," said Eddy. "Oklahoma has a good team with exceptional speed, but I think when they lost Liggins they lost a little momentum. When we scored late in the second quarter they lost some more. We sure were unhappy the second half and we wanted to do a job on 'em," he added. 
Unhappy about what? "We thought they were playing a little rough," Eddy said. Most of the Irish were impressed with the play of Liggins and the enthusiasm for a half. The outcome was obvious by halftime and newsmen relaxed enough to drop a few quips along the way. "I know what Mackenzie's halftime talk will be," one scribe said. "Boys, let's start putting that weight back on." 
When the blunderbuss boomed the Sooners back onto the field at halftime, another scribe remarked, "Here come the Christians again!" 
Once during the fourth quarter, a partisan writer yawned, "I've lost interest." Then when OU Quarterback Jim Burgar was too long getting the Sooners off and suffered a delay penalty, he said, "So's Burgar." 
A little sick humor, maybe, but, in a situation like that, you have to find something to laugh about. 
Dec. 9, 1966 
AMBUSH AT OK CORRAL 
In 1957, Notre Dame defeated Oklahoma and in Norman they interrupted movies to announce the score. Now eight years later, the "Sunday Oklahoman" relates another loss, one just as crushing. 
by TOM WRIGHT 
TV/fiGHTY NOTRE DAME^ short on glamour but deep in 
^^^ talent, gave plucky Navy a defensive going-over in a 
31-7 load of action at John F. Kennedy Stadium yesterday. 
Don't get the idea there was anything duU about the one-sided affair. 
Matter of fact, there were 70,100 other viewers who will go along with Tom Lynch, who said, "I never saw a Navy team play so well and so hard and yet lose by so much." 
Tom Lynch was captain of the undefeated Navy team which went to the Sugar Bowl in 1963. He is also the brother of Jimmy Lynch, Notre Dame captain who was in the middle of an Irish defense that spent the afternoon setting up touchdown situations. 
The most conspicuous player of them all was Norris­town's Johnny Pergine. The 19-year-old from Plymouth­\Vhitemarsh High School put on a one-man show while picking off three Navy passes. 
Besides getting "well done" salutations, the energetic Middies also had the satisfaction of snapping Notre Danie's shutout record of three straight games. Of all things, with a blocked punt! 
It was a planned play. In the fourth period, with the Irish leading, 24-0, the Sailors ganged up on substitute punter Bob Gladieux. Heading the charge was six-footer Jim Goebel who deflected the ball back to the goal liiie, where Jon Bergner, another six-footer, fdl on it for the score. Dave Church then place-kicked the extra point. 
It didn't matter by then, except for the Notre Dame defensive crew, which takes such matters seriously. 
The Fighting Irish, who now wear white and gold uniforms (they abandoned the traditional green four years ago) had to get along without their sensational end, Jim Se3Tnour. 
Nevertheless, Hanratty went over for two touchdowns. Larry Conjar and Gladieux scored once each after Joe Azarro started the point production with a 42-yard field goal in the first period. He also kicked the four extra points. 
While it was no picnic for Hanratty, his Navy counter­part, John Cartwright, of Sharon Hill High, must have 
SHORT ON GLAMOUR 
Neglecting the passing game, Notre 
Dame runs over a scrappy Navy team. 
The "Philadelphia Bulletin" recounts 
\Ain number six. 
by RAY KELLY 

felt like Horatio at the bridge. The Irish never stopped coming at him. 
John finished with five completions in 14 tosses, along with four interceptions. Asked if Notre Dame was as good as their press notices, the tow-headed signal-caHer said softly: "You'd better believe it." 
The N.D. line yielded a mere 36 yards running and only 28 passing, all good for only five first downs. 
"Notre Dame is a great team," said Navy coach Bill Elias, who had predicted a victory for his side. "They take advantage of everything, but my kids let them know they were in a ball game." 
Ara Parseghian, the wizard who coaches Notre Dame, credited "our defense" for the victory. "It was a superb defensive game," he said. "Navy was juiced up and they had us off balance the first half with those gambling de­fenses. We changed some at the half and got the ground game going. The only thing that disappointed us was not getting our fourth shutout in a row." 
Parseghian kept his first-stringers in the game until less than seven minutes remained in the fourth period. There was some grumbUng from the Navy side about "lacking mercy." 
Elias said he wasn't bothered at all. "Don't forget," he said, "they're after a national championship. I can't coach another man's team." 
The game was less than two minutes old when Irish back Tom O'Leary intercepted a Cartwright pass at mid­field. Right away the pessimists said, "The rout has started." 
Once, near the end of the first period. Navy made a bid for glory. With the help of a couple of Cartwright passes, the Middies got to the N.D. 28. Alan Page made a great play on Cartwright before somebody else grabbed the quarterback's face mask. 
Since it happened after the play, the 15-yard penalty was from the point of infringement. This left the Middies with a fourth and two situation. Terry Murray, Navy's 174-pound fullback, tried to hit the middle. He never had a chance, the ball changed hands and the Middies never got that close again. 
'VfiCK EDDY AND TOMMY SCHOEN weren't exactly run­
-'-^ ning for office in the third quarter of this surprising 
football game, but when the ballots are counted in the 
national polls on Monday, their returns will carry a lot of 
weight. 
Eddy is a very offensive halfback and Schoen is a de­
fensive safety, and they were a potent pair in paralyzing 
a persistent Pittsburgh team for a 40-0 Notre Dame vic­
tory here this somber Saturday afternoon before a sellout 
crowd of 59,075. 
Notre Dame's re-election as No. 1 in the nation may 
weU depend on their returns, because Michigan State, in 
routing Iowa 56-7, remains a formidable candidate. 
Somehow the palsied Panthers, entei'ing the game with 
a 1-6 record, outscored 67 points to 200, managed to stymie 
the might of Ara Parseghian's powerful platoon for near­
ly half of a contest which was supposed to be resolved in 
favor of the Irish with the opening kickoff. 
Yet, with indomitable will, born perhaps by being 
pitted against the nation's best with one of the nation's 
worst records, Pittsburgh held off a Notre Dame score 
until Quarterback Terry Hanratty ended an 80-yard march 
by going three yards on a touchdown keeper after 10 min­
utes of the second quarter. 
Joe Azzaro, place-kicked the extra point and the Irish 
were on the boards 7-0 at the half. In East Lansing, Mich., 
the nation's No. 2 team, Michigan State, was leading Iowa 
35-7 at the same juncture and breathing heavily on Notre 
Dame's right to remain in office. 
Then the "returns" came in from the Eddy and Schoen 
precincts. Nick took the second-half kickoff on his own 
15 and raced 85 yards for a 13-0 Notre Dame bulge. 
Azzaro's kick was wide, but with three minutes remain­
ing in the third period, Schoen gathered in Al Zortea's 
ptmt on his own 37 and threaded his way 63 yards to an­
other touchdown. 
Now, faced with the mighty display of the Spartans to the north, Notre Dame Coach Ara Parseghian went for every available point, two at the moment. It worked, on a pass from Hanratty to Paul May, and the Irish went into the stretch leading 21-0. 
The dismal start of Notre Dame against a team so poorly rated that the oddsmakers refused to even recog­nize the contest was bound to pale before the Spartans' 35-7 hounding of the Hawkeyes over the same distance. 
This was the first game in six that Ara didn't dare frolic his reserves. In defense of the No. 1 rating, he used double quarterbacks by having Hanratty and Coley O'Brien in the same backfield. Another time, he employed two full­backs, Conjar going the distance at that offensive position, and May filling in at left halfback. 
Pitt scored a moral victory in its frustration of the Irish ease of recent victories, far beyond the sizeable mar­gin on the scoreboard. 
In the Notre Dame dressing room, after the trying ordeal, Ara wiped his brow and said: 
"This certainly proves my contention that there is no such thing as an 'easy' game. We were flat in the first half and Pittsburgh played an outstanding game. 
"They didn't make any mistakes in the first half. They played us to a standstill. 
"No one hit Eddy on that kickoff return, but on his 51­yard run he landed on his bad shoulder and we thought we'd better take him out. It's a moderate shoulder bruise; he should be OK next week. 
"We didn't use Jim Seymour because we weren't sure about his condition. It really was two different ball games. In the first half, Pitt made no mistakes and we did. In the second half, they made some mistakes and we took advan­tage of them." 
Is Notre Dame still No. 1? 
WITH MICHIGAN STATE CLOSE BEHIND 
Pittsburgh stumped the Irish for a half — but no longer. The "Chicago Sun-Times" gives the account. 
by DICK HACKENBEKG 
DEBACLE OUT OF THE DEPTH 
Sixty-four players got into the aet for Notre Dame, and for outmanned Duke their performance was hot comedy. Joe Doyle conducts the postmortem for the "South Bend Tribune." 
EXPLOSIVE NOTRE DAME^ leading the nation in scoring, 
defense and the rating polls, added to its 1966 football 
prestige Saturday with a 64-0 rout of intersectional rival 
Duke and set the stage for next Saturday's titanic clash 
vdth Michigan State. 
Nick Eddy, the dazzling senior halfback, ignited a 43­
point first half explosion when he sped 77 yards untouched 
by human hands on the second play of the game. And 
either offensively or defensively, the error-prone Blue 
Devils were outclassed thereafter. 
Six times the Irish crashed across the goal-line in the 
first 30 minutes, enabling Coach Ara Parseghian to empty 
his bench in the second half. He used 64 players in all — 
one for each point. Many were seniors, playing for the 
last time at home. 

Hardly had the 59,075 fans settled in their seats when 
the Irish were off and running. Rocky Bleier gathered 
in the kickoff in the end zone and ran it out to the 19. 
Larry Conjar hammered for four yards at left guard and 
on the next play Eddy took a handoff from Terry Han-
ratty, started left and then cut through a gaping hole at 
tackle. 

Five plays later the defense scored touchdown No. 2. 
Duke's Larry Davis completed two passes to Dave 
Dunaway for a first down at the 45. After two plays 
gained only three yards, Davis took to the air again, but 
John Horney leaped to intercept at the Irish 45 and raced 
toward Duke's goal. 
W^en he seemed to be fenced in at the 30, he lateraled 
off to a surprised Tom O'Leary and the Columbus speedster 
rocketed into the end zone. Busy Joe Azzaro then kicked 
the first of eight straight conversions for a 15-0 lead with 
only 3:35 elapsed in the game. 
Thereafter, the touchdowns came at a slower pace, but enough to rack up the widest margin since a similar 64-0 count against Dartmouth in 1944. 
On defense, the Irish intercepted four passes to give them 21 interceptions for the year. They blocked a punt and time after time threw Duke's two quarterbacks for losses. Most of Duke's yardage came on a time-killing groimd m£irch paced by substitute fullback Page Wilson in the final seven minutes. 
Duke managed 15 first downs to only 17 for the Irish, but N.D, rolled up 425 yards in offense to the Blue Devils 
185. And the second half was played strictly against sec­ond or lower units in both offense and defense. 
So devastating was the Irish attack when helped along by Duke mistakes that there was only one N.D. punt in the game. Just before halftime, a clipping penalty on a punt return forced the Irish back to the 12 and the No. 2 unit couldn't move the ball. Gladieux punted out past midfield and two losses later, Duke had to punt from its own 30. 
The seniors playing for the final time included 12 starters — seven on offense. In all, 29 of the 64 players used v.^ere seniors competing for the last time at home. 
In the offensive line, the Irish lose regulars Don emitter, Tom Regner, Paul Seller, George Goeddeke and Dick Swatland, plus Eddy and Conjar from the backfield. On the defense, frontline Alan Page, Pete Duranko and Tom Rhoads graduate, as do Jim Lynch and John Horney, linebackers. 
Reserves who played for the final time at home in­cluded Tim Wengierski, Pete Lamantia, Dave Zurowski, Bob Hagerty, Jim Kelly, Hugh O'Malley and kickers Jim Ryan and Joe Azzaro. Linemen indude Fred Schnurr, Joe Marsico, Tim Gorman, Rocco Schiralli, Gerald Kelly, John Lium, Vic Patemostro, Leo Collins, Allen Sack, Ron Jezior­ski and Harry Alexander. 
6- .»#'.r?i^'' 
•• r^il^^V^ 
S 
IJ^. 

''THERE IS A TIME TO GAMBLE... 9> 
The "Detroit Free Press" had advocated State's superiori­
ty all year but after the clash their sports editor changed 
his tune. 

by JOE FALLS 
T)LESS ME, FATHER for I have sinned . . . •*-' I rooted for Michigan State. But now I would like to repent. The winner, and it hurts to say it, was Notre Dame. 
On Monday morning the vote will go out to the As­sociated Press in New York: 1—^Notre Dame, 2—^Michigan State, etc., etc. 
And let's not hear any of that tripe from Birmingham that Alabama is the best team in the nation. Bear Bryant's boys snuck in the back door when the AP held that ridiculous poll last January. 
Make no mistake about it — the two best teams in the land were on display here Saturday and our grudging admiration goes to the Fighting Irish. 
They were up against everything and still managed to puU off a tie in the most nerve-wracking football game that could possibly be played. It was a classic in the truest sense of the word. 
The Irish lost their quarterback, Terry Hanratty, early in the game. Their best runner, and maybe the best run­ner in the coimtry, Nick Eddy, never got onto the field. 
George Goeddeke, their first-string center, also went out early in the action. 
And here they were, with only half a backfield, in a bull ring that rivaled anything Madrid or Mexico City could offer, with a 10-0 score against them . . . and they came back and got a 10-10 standoff and barely missed winning it with five minutes to go on Joe Azzaro's field goal try from 41 yards out. 
A lesser team could have collapsed when Nick Kenney put that 47-yard field goal through the bars midway in the second half . . . because here Michigan State had all the momentum, all the drive and almost all the fans behind it. 
In that moment they waited the kickoff after Kenney's field goal, my heart was pounding at the prospect of a rout, which would have made this the sweetest day of the sea­son, and the feeling came on strong that Michigan State might even have shut out this team that was running up those ridiculous 64-0 scores against people like Duke. 
From then on you had to give your admiration to these Notre Dame players. Quit? Why, they came back and played their best ball of the day through those final 40 minutes. 
And as the pressure mounted, until it became almost unbearable to sit stiU in your seat, the Irish made all the 
mfi:=^^. 
big plays. 

It was magnificent the way this little Coley O'Brien 
immediately rallied the Irish for their touchdown, because, 
simply, ask yourself this question — who is Coley O'Brien? 
He looks like a tumbleweed being blown across the 
flat prairie lands, no bigger than the quarterback at North 
Farmington High. And certainly, no cover boy. 
The people at Time probably never heard of him. 
But he fused the spark in his team and before you 
could utter the magic words, "We're No. 1," the Irish 
were on the scoreboard and back in the game. 
He led them 54 yards in three quick strikes and you just can't be any more authoritative than the way he hit the streaking Bob Gladieux on the goal line for the touch­down. 
Right then, I started getting scared. 
You can stack up the statistics and arrange them in any order that you want but the Irish won this one and even if it might put the Spartans on top, I hope Notre Dame closes out with a victory over Southern Cal. They deserve the No. 1 ranking. 
This is not an attempt to demean Michigan State, to get off the hook for all the needling I've given the Irish fans in the last few weeks. But it would be less than fair to be prejudiced at a time like this. You've got to give them their due. 
It was regrettable that the game ended in a chorus of boos from the highly partisan crowd as Ara Parseghian chose to settle for the tie instead of trying for a bolt of lightning in the last minute. 
It would have been far better to see the Irish making an all-out effort to break the tie. But there is a time to gamble, and there isn't a time to gamble. 
This wasn't the time. 
It was impressive the way Michigan State kept calling time out with the seconds ticking away. But to ridicule the Irish for killing the clock. . . . -Well, it's just sour grapes. 
Seldom in fact never — has a game affected me the way this one did. You can believe this or not, but I awoke with a knot in my stomach Saturday morning. 
I wanted Michigan State to win so badly, it hurt. If the Spartans lost, I had my lines rehearsed. . . . 
AAARGH, I would say, humble pie tastes awful . . . and don't bother writing your nasty letters, Duffy and I wei'e taking a vacation in the upper Peninsula to see who could make the biggest splash fz'om the middle of the Mackinac Bx-idge. 
Well, Daugherty doesn't have to apologize for anything, or explain anything. He showed more guts in this one afternoon than many coaches do in an entire career. 
Fourth and one on his 30 . . . three minutes left . . . go for it and risk the chance of blowing the game and the whole season and leave yourself wide open to be second guessed the rest of your natural life? 
Or punt? 

Duffy didn't hesitate. He sent in a play, a keeper by Jimmie Raye, and whether it worked or not, and it did, it was the boldest move any coach could make. 
And then, unwilling to settle for the tie, Daugherty kept ordering those time outs in the fading moments, hoping somehow his boys would wrest the ball loose from the Irish. 
They took the coach-of-the-year honors away from Daugherty when the Spartans lost to UCLA in the Rose Bowl last January. But if there's any justice left in the land, they should give it to him this time around. 
You see, Michigan State played a helluva ball game, too. The Spartans are a superb team. In fact, they're the No. 2 team in the land. 
The Scholastic 

wm 
tf-S-i^ 
••s^asf =:i.-%i.«?ti»?^«-<rr.i.ij? 

^.•=^w^^^y>«^?^^^«^^^v::j^?r:!g^^^ 
#'l 
I. 
^' 
± 

•Jk «•
1^2, 

COLEY O'BRIEN AND... 
Sparked by a sophomore understudy at the helm Xotre Dame crushes the Trojans, and as the "Los Angeles Times" sees it, dispels all doubts. 
by PAUL ZDL^IEKMAX 
rpiTPiER NOTRE DAME IS NO. 1 in ihe nation or USC is ^ far from being the West's most representative team for the Rose Bowl — or both. 
Before an astounded crowd of 88,520 at the Cohseum Saturday, the Irish amassed 51 points while holding the Trojans scoreless. It was the largest total ever chalked up against Southern Cal. 
Eitlier Coach Ara Parseghian's Irish have impro\"ed vastly siace-their 26-14 opening game triumph against Purdue or the Trojans are in for another pasting when they tackle the Boilermakers in Pasadena come Jan. 2. 
The whopping score was an eloquent answer to the critics who cliided Coach Parseghian for playing for the 
Dec. 9, 1966 
THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
tie in that 10-10 game with r\Iichigan State a week ago. 
Now. the charge may be that Noti'e Dame poured it on Saturday-, considering that the half time score was 31-0, but the huge crowd was entitled to see the best each team had to offer. Besides. USC in its an.xiety to slop the on­slaught, contributed to the massacre. 
As limp and exhausted as his players after the game. Coach John i\IcKay agreed with the Notre Dame mentor, who said: 
"This is the best balanced offensive and defensive team I"ve ever coached or seen." 
"I guess I've never seen a better team than Notre Dame was today." was McKay's appraisal. "This will be a tre­mendous psychological handicap for us in the Rose Bowl."' 
There could be no doubt about it. 

Coley O'Brien and Jim Seymour spearheaded the Noti'e Dame attack to become the automatic selection as leading back and lineman of the game. 
Playing his first full game for the Irish, O'Brien com­pleted 21 of 31 passes for 255 of the 461 yai'ds amassed by Notre Dame. Three of the passes went for touchdowns. 
Seymour, the great sophomore end, caught 11 passes for 150 yards and two of the three touchdowns through the air. 
The bewildered USC defense, which had not allowed more than two touchdowns in any one game, saw Notre Dame accomplish this with ease in the first quarter. 
When O'Brien was not throwing the ball, he was hand­ing it to All-American Nick Eddy, Larry Con jar and Dan Harshman for devastating yardage on the ground. 
The closest the Trojans came to scoring was in the third period. With the score 38-0 against it, USC moved the ball to the Irish 9 on a series of passes after Adrian Young had returned an interception 43 yards to the Notre Dame 47. The vanquished were back on the 28, when they finally gave up the ball, so stubborn was the Notre Dame defense. 
The futility of the USC attack was reflected in the fact that only twice did it get much beyond midfield. The sec­ond occasion came in the fourth quarter, when against the Irish reserves, it took the pigskin to the 34. 
In aU fairness, it must be said that USC kept gambling, and in so doing aided the Irish scoring cause, but the Tro­jans had to recognize the futility of it all as early as the initial drive of the game when Notre Dame took the open­ing kickoff and never relinquished the ball. 
It simply was a case of being o\-er-matched both offen­sively and defensively. 
Dec. 9, 1966 
''Whv can't the Regners, Goeddekes, 
Seilers, Conjars recognize that four more weeks can immortahze their playing careers..." 
Ercrv football week the coaches make up a <^arnc board. On it are pictures oj that Saturda\'s opponents, their strengths and weaknesses. .And one day, each neek. a sheer is tacked to that board. It is entitled The Phantom Speaks, and which coach writes it, no player knows. It is written in harsh exclamations, and in each neck's preparations it forms one level of the team's readiness. 
L^ ACII game is a "slice ot lite" to i;ach player. It be-
conies a part of a giori(nis history, a color portrait . . . how yon painted yonr part becomes permaueut. There is never a redoing or a going back. ^Vhat must be done 
— MUST BE DONE!: 
EVERY effort to progress . . , we neeill Eiu,ht- weeks are all that are left for onr grasp at "greatness." We can only attack those weeks one at a time! 
This week .-Vrmv! 

U' \'EI{Y member of the s(piad must "take on" and grow 
larger each pressuring week. He must recogniz<» that pressure players are those that ign()re the road behind and start from scratch. Xo s^ame is so important as the Oklahoma Game this week!!! 
t^IFTV percent of your season is over. Vou are no^v 
Xo. 1 in the country. The live remaining teams will each week represent an aroused group to steal the mark you've made. If we can keep our heads, never feeling superior, still working to be so, if we can dedicate our­selves to each week's opponent — as lliey come, we can be number one — all the way. This week — Xavy! 
Individually we are capable of heinu — common — very common. But coupled with team bonds, with com­mon enthusiasm, with undying unity, and loyalty — no one can overcome us. Come on, X'avy — take your pot­shot, Thev all want to!! 
YT7E now face Pittsburgh — the classical, the haves 
against the have-nots! I wonder if they know the haves are physically hurting or that they feel the draj^ of a long season. I wonder if "revenge" works for op­ponents .. . as they think of last year's GO-lii stomping. 
I wonder if tlie Irish can stand up to the ideal of play­ing games one at a time. Xo game as important as the one you're playinj^! We were not sharp against Navy. The defense played splendidly! But our offense lacked e.vplosiAcness! 
\^hy can't the Eegners, Goeddekes, Conjars, Sellers recognize that four weeks more can immortalize their playing careers, that Ave have a chance that few others will ever realize in their lifetimes? 
/ ^ XE year ago 3Iichigan State beat us. 
^ ^ When Ave looked at film, we Avere amazed that so fcAv State players AAcre knocked off their feet. We Avere "outblufled"! They shoAved aggressiveness — yelling and screaming — one thing burned my ears and stuck Avith me—their linebacker Thornhill said, "You don't AAant it!" 
They are not supermen, they SAvarm you and try to be belligerent enough to force you to back off. Duranko, no two men should ever block you out. Though I Avon't say Ave backed off last year — AAe AAere not prepared for the assault. . . . This year Avill be diflerent. W'e're going after them! We Avant it — Thornhill, Webster, Smith, Jones, Washington — Aihen you hit them — and they fall — >ou'll begin to know — they are A'ulnerable. 
:>JL 
"Duranko, no two men should ever block you out/' 
Dec. 9, 1966 >:> 
IRISH! You are hurting . . . but unbow(Ki and unbeaten. 
* There are no sophomores on our squad. Having lived and fought your way back against Michigan State ma<le all of you grow up . . . beyond any point of inexperience. Southern Cal out there is different from anywhere else in the world. 
I remember the "Irish" squad walking the long empty walk from the field to the tunnel. I remember their full-grown bodies — shaking with sobs of dejection. I recall the fantastic turn of events that robbed us of a national championship. We never cried FOUL! 
We're going back there. The odds are these: they are a good-wound, quick football team on their home field. \A'e must tra.\'el there and pla;*' in Avarm weather and overcome their home advantages. We must blot out any outside thought — because they ahvays attempt to swarm our visit there with kindness. The relaxing "hapi)y 
.carnival atmosphere" that lulls you into easy prey. 
We are fighters — hurt tho we may be! — We are aware of all the obstacles, all the memories. 
Go, Irish — become undefeated!!! the champions you are! 
3: ,.38^gr''CK.^tf'^'^ 
^^mmmmmH :;-?:-^.:K^ 
jy 

WE DID IT WITH CLASS 
After a startling victory in Los Angeles, Ed Buckley, an A.F.L. repre­sentative, commented on the caliber of the Notre Dame team. "It will be a long time in coming before a college team will ever assemble this many great players." The elected spokes­man for this assembly, Jim Lynch, explains how his team arrived at their goal—the National Championship. 
4 4 \ T 7HEN WE WENT OUT tO the 
^^ coast we were faced with two 

alternatives. We could either go down 
in the record books as a great team, 
a national championship team, or be 
throvra into that large group of good 
also-rans in Notre Dame's history. 
When you think about it, we had 
every excuse in the world to lose 
that game; our long string of injuries, 
the tiring trip out there and the big 
emotional letdown after the Michigan 
State game. But the challenge was 
still there, just as it was the week 
before and the eight Saturdays before 
that. We met those challenges and 
we had come too far to blow it all 
against Southern Cal. 
"We had some breathing room after our offense scored early and Schoen intercepted that pass. But to this day I can't figure out how we beat them 51-0. Cal had to break away from their game plan and that meant they had to gamble. Everything they tried backfired but that doesn't explain fifty-one points. 
"We knew we were good before the Purdue game. Our offense had the one ingredient that kept last year's teaia from greatness—the arm. The team had good leadership from the seniors, a good blend of juniors and sophomores, and no cUques or person­ality conflicts. 
"The coaches handled the season wdL They demanded greatness and expected us to pay the price for it. Every coach had his own style but they all treated us as individuals. Coach Ray used a different method with every one of his linebackers. When Homey or Pergine blew a signal in practice he'd almost rip their helmets off, but he would ap­proach Mike McGill with a gentle, 'Come on, Mike. You can do better than that!' He used to scream my ears off when I made a wrong call but he never hit me. 
"Later in the season the coaches started to taper off our workouts and concentrate on keeping us fresh. On our light days, Thtursday and Friday, the defense began to make up cheers for the offense and pretty soon the coaches were giving out awards for the best Friday performances. On the Friday before the State game we gave the offense a cheer about Bubba. We all gathered in a circle and started with 'Just ask Martin about the Spartan,' and then we left Dave alone in the center to yell to the offense. 'Hey offense, he's not so tough. Come on, let's knock him on his duff.' 
"This team had a lot of pride, not the green beret, whistle-blowing type, but the kind that never let the thought enter our minds that we would ever let down the coaches and the school's reputation. Plajdng for Notre Dame and all the name represents tran­scends the ball on the field. With our environment here every guy on campus takes a defeat as something personal. In the past when we lost it was readly difficult to come back and face the student body and we worked hard to prevent that from happening this year. 
"This team was unique because we had so many great players. If I were asked to pick out a most valuable player I honestly couldn't. I would vote the whole team most valuable. As a team we never gave Notre Dame a black eye on or off the field this year. We talked about that at the first meeting of the year. We set our goal, the National Championship, and we wanted to win it with class. 
"There was a lot of personal satis­faction in being number one this year and anybody would be lying to say he doesn't like aU the honors that came with being national champions. But when I look back on it all my biggest feeUng of accomplishment is to be able to say, I was a part of it all, and that I carried my weight." 

THEY COULD BE THE START OF SOMETHING BIG 
Two games do not a season make, unless the sport is freshman football. In the twilight world where high school stars have lost their glitter and collegiate glory is out of reach, Notre Dame's 1966 Yearlings made like the Varsity and provided a brief but promising glimpse of autumns to come. by MIKE McADAMS 
'"pHERE IS A SAYING among fraternity 
•*• housemothers that a student at­tending a four-year college lives no more than two of them as a social being. He spends his first year get­ting initiated and the last getting himself extricated from all the clubs and societies into which he was finally accepted. The senior's problem is vmiquely his own, but for a college freshman the situation never varies. With high school accomplishment forgotten and college maturity still ahead, he simply doesn't fit. 
Picture, now, three dozen or so of these ugly ducklings, doing again what they did to so much acclaim in high school, but doing it, true to classic freshman tradition, in a vacu­um. What you have is a group of frustrated artists, an unwatched melt­ing pot of raw, anonymous potential. What you have is a freshman football team. 
In the Midwest, in 1966, some of the frustration came to an end. These freshman football players, who every schools' alumni were certain would bring home the National Champion­ship in at least two years, were made legitimate, given a schediile, and pointed toward the nearest blood-rival. And at least five Big Ten coaches had to look elsewhere to spice Monday's post-game pep talk. 
At Notre Dame, though, the one school where talk of the National Championship commands the present tense, the rich continue to grow richer —and bigger. On November 18, when Wally Moore's intimidating rookies overcame stubborn Michigan State at freezing, teeming East Lansing High School field (where do you play fresh­men games, anyway?), the Irish completed a 2-0 campaign and un­covered an impressive supply of talent for the future. And that talent is big. Behind a line that outweighed its varsity, Notre Dame trampled the Pitt frosh easily, 29-0, as 6'7", 250­
Dec. 9, 1966 
pound end Jay Ziznewski turned ball­carriers either upside down, which was effective, or into the 530-pound tackle duo of Mike McKoy and Bob Jockish, which was absolutely cruel. 
Whomping Pittsburgh was enjoy­able diversion, but the very idea of beating Michigan State in the second game became a mania. The Spartans, directed by a skittery Georgia quarter­back named Jack Pitts who could be Jimmy Raye's twin, began their two-game season with a comfortable victory over Indiana. But the 15,000­plus fans who shivered through the Friday night, pre-Game-of-the-Year battle knew the season's success for both teams would be decided right there. 
And the hitting all evening reflected it. A lesser varsity game than the eventual bruising tie would have seemed anti-cHmactic. As it was, a good many fans watching the Game of the Year had the feeling they'd been there before. From gutty come­backs to pivotal field goals, the Pre­lude of the Year had it all and then some. 
The frosh game even started on a prophetic note. Notre Dame Qucirter­back Don Reid, injured playing for the prep squad against the Varsity, wasn't able to go, and a converted halfback, Tom Gores, took over the team. He did this in the same subtle, quiet manner as when Joshua took the walls of Jericho—by throwing two touchdown passes of 20 and 58 yards to his 6'1", 200-pound end, Nick Furlong. The first half ended at 14-0, and the second half began at 21-0 when Larry Schumacher sped 88 yards untouched with the kickoff. Then State remembered who they were. Pitts began the tactic Jimmy Raye was to use so successfully the next day: quick rollouts, followed by look-in passes off the option. The Irish were caught on their heels, and with three minutes left the Spartans were ahead, 27-21, and you knew they wouldn't let that slip away. Yoii thought. 
Back came Notre Dame, relentlessly, with Jeff Zimmerman and Ed Zeigler grinding out four yards, five yards, four more yards. Gores and Furlong had supplied the dramatics but now the outcome rested on Kentuckian Zeigler, who responded with a vigor that positively enthralled the varsity coaches. With 2:38 to go in the game he cracked three yards to tie the score 27-27. It was poetic justice, you knew, for Placekicker Zeigler to boot the winning extra point. He missed. Now State took the ball, couldn't move, punted, and with two minutes remaining the Irish started again. Using the ground attack that sud­denly but vmdeniably was dominating the game, they drove to the Spartan 32, fourth down, 75 seconds left. Zeigler, capping the kind of game that makes freshman football worth the trouble, placed his only field goal of the year squarely through the up­rights. Notre Dame won, 30-27. 
Freshman football is here to stay. And with endings like that, who needs a varsity? 
1966 FINAL STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS 

N.D. OPP. 362 POINTS SCORED 38 204 _. FIRST DOW.\S 119 110 by Rushing 53 85 _ by Passing 60 9 hv Penahics <) 2116 ..„ YARDS RUSHING 793 473 „... TLMES CARRIED „... 384 4.5 Yard<-per-lry 2.1 1809 YARDS PASSI.NG 1083 232 Passes .Attempted 249 120 Passes Completed 105 .517 Completion Perceniaiic 422 26 Passes Intercepted by 16 497 Yards Int. Returned 152 3925 TOTAL OFFENSE 1876 37 _ PUNTS 75 1429 ..-_ Total Yaidv _ _... 2660 
38.6 .Average ---35.5 269 _ Yards Punts Rciiinied 76 26 _. FU.MBLES _ 19 13 .-.-_ -... Ball Lost -11 484 ..._ YARDS PENALIZED _ 367 
SCORING 

PLAYER TD P.\T FG TP Eddy .._ 10 0 0 60 Seymour _ 8 0 0 48 .•\zzaro _ 0 38-35 5-4 47 Conjar .' 7 2 run 0 44 Hanratty 5 2 run 0 32 Bleicr 3 0 0 30 Gladieux 5 0 0 30 Schoen _ _ 3 0 0 18 Criniti 2 0 0 12 O'Brien -.... 2 fl .0 12 Haley ._ „ 1 n 0 6 Harshraan ._ _ 1 0 0 G Martin 1 0 0 6 O'Leary _ . 1 0 0 6 Rvan 0 5-3 1-0 3 May 0 2 j)ass 0 2 
ND TOTALS _ 51 43-38 6-4 362 
OPP. TOTALS 5 5-5 5-1 38 
INDIVIDUAL RUSHING 

LONG PLAYER TC YDS .WG. TD RUN Eddy 78 553 7.1 8 77 Conjar 112 521 4.7 7 30 BIcier 63 282 4.5 4 22 O'Brien 40 1.35 3.4 -jr.
O 

Hanratty , 50 124 2.5 52 Gladicux ... 27 111 4.1 18 Halev _ 19 102 5.4 26 
May _ 24 65 2.7 10 Criniti 17 10
63 3.7 

Dushney ... 9 59 6.6 13 Belden 17 55 3.2 9 2.5
Harshman . 8 20 9 Hagerty 4 13 3.2 4 Quinn, T. 3 12 4.0 12 O'Malley . 1 1 1.0 1 AVcngicrski 1 0 0 
INDIVIDUAL RECEIVING 

LONG PLAYER NO. YDS. AVG. TD PASS SejTnour .. 48 862 18.0 8 84 BIcier 17 209 12.3 1 45 Eddy 15 123 8.2 0 16 Gladieux .. 12 208 17.3 2 46 Stenger .... 6 86 14.3 0 20 Gmitter —. 4 72 18.0 0 24 Conjar 4 62 15.5 0 18 Heneghan 3 46 15.3 0 18 Harshman 3 35 11.7 1 23 Rassas 2 25 12.5 0 13 Heaton 2 13 6.5 0 8 May 1 24 24.0 0 24 Haley 1 23 23.0 0 23 Snow 1 11 II.O 0 11 Quinn, T, 1 10 10.0 0 10 
INDIVIDUAL PASSING 
Long 

Player  Att. Comp. Int.  Yds.  Pet. TD Pass  
Hanratty  147  78  10  1247  .531  8  84  
O'Brien  82  42  6  562  .512  4  46  
Belden : „ 2  0  0  0  .000  0  ....  
Hardy  1  0  0  0  .000  0  ....  

PUNTING 
LO.VG  
PL.VYER  NO.  YDS.  AVG.  PUNT  
Bleier ,.  16  634  39.6  63  
Gladieux  ..1 1  385  35.1  63  
Hardv  ...  10  409  40.9  51  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
PLAYER NO. YDS. TD AVG. Eddy 4 193 0 48.3 Bleier 3 67 0 22.3 Conjar 3 39 0 13.0 Gladieuv 2 48 0 24 Quinn. T 1 38 0 .38 
PUNT RETURNS 
PLAYER -NO. YDS. TD AVG. Schoen „ 29 253 1 8.7 Burgener 2 16 0 8.0 Quinn, T 1 0 0 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
NOTRE DAME 83 116 90 /3 OPPONENTS 10 0 21 
PASSES INTERCEPTED 
PLAYER NO. YDS. TD Schoen 7 118 
2 Burgener 2 50 0 Pergine _ 5 72 0 Smithbcrge. A 132 0 Lynch 3 12 •0 Harshman 2 25 
0 O'LcaiA' _ I 35 I Martin ._ _ 1 33 1 Hornev 1 20 
0 

DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
TACKLES: Lynch 106; Pergine 98; Hardy 79: Duranko 73; Page 63; Mai tin 62; Smithberger 54: Hornev 51: O'Leaiy 46; Rhoads 41; McGiil 40: Schoen 30; Lavin 21; Sack 17; Burgener 15; Harsh­man 14; T. Quinn 13; Van HufTel 12; Jeziorski 10; Vuillemin 9; .•\lexander 8; Lauck, Norri 6: Holtzapfc! 4; Wisne 3; Azzaro, Eddy, G. Kelly. Seilcr 2: Gladieux, Gmitter, Kucchenberg. Ra-ssas. Regner, Ryan, Snow, Zubek 1. 
PASSES BROKEN UP: Mai tin. O'Leary 10; Smith­berger 7; Hardy, Horney, Rhoads 4; Pergine 3; Lynch 2: Burgener. Duranko, Jezioiski, McGill, Page, Sack 1. 
FUMBLES RECOVERED: Alexander, Martin 2: Duranko, Hardy, Horney, Jeziorski, Lynch, Pergine. Smithberger 1. 
BLOCKED KICKS: Martin, Pergine 1. 
RECORDS TIED OR BROKEN 
INDIVIDUAL­
SINGLE GA.ME: 
Most Passes Completed 21 Coley OBiien. Southern California. lies record of John lluaite. Stanford. 1954. 
Most P:isses Caught 13 Jim Seymour, Purdue, old lecord: 11 Jim Kelly, Pittsbuigli. 1962. 
' Most Yards on Pass Receptions 276 Jim Seymour, Purdue, old record: 217 Jack Snow, \Vi.sconsin, 1964. 
Most Touchdown Pxsses Caught 
3 Jim Seymour. Puidue. ties record of Jim Kelly, Piitsbuigh, 1962, Jim Mutscheller. Micliigan State. 1950. Bill Barrett, North Carolina. 1949. and Eddie .Anderson. North­westetn, 1920. 
SEASON: 
Highest Average per KickolT Return (Min. 4 returns) 
48.3 Nick Eddy, old lecoid: -16.5 Joe Savoldi. 1930. 
Most Touchdowns on KickolT Returns 2 Nick Eddy, ties lecord of Paul Castner, 1922. and John Lattuer, 1953. 
TEAM— 
SE.ASON: 
Most Passes Completed 
120 Tics recoid set in 1954, 
Most Passes Intercepted 
26 Old Record. 25, 1941. "42, '43. 
Most Yards Interceptions Returned 
497 Old Record: 346, 1921. 
Most Touchdowns on Interception Returns 
4 Old Record: 3, 1945, 1949. 
Most Kickoff Returns by Opposition 
61 Old Record: 55. 1949. 
Most Yards Allowed on KickofT Returns 
1060 Old Record: 1018, 1948. 
Season's Attendance (Home and Away) 652,802 Old Record: 621,919, 1957. 
The Scholastic 

1967 SCHEDULE 
September 23—California at Notre Dame 
The Golden Bears, smarting from their 48-6 loss to the Irish two years ago, will seek satisfaction in next year's opener. 
September 30—Purdue at Lafayette 
Purdue will be depleted by gradua­tion but the Boilermakers are always tough on home grounds against the Irish. With the sting of defeat still burning in their eyes, the hosts should be ready for the green inva­sion. 
October 7—iowa at Notre Dame 
Victims of a rebuilding year, the Hawkeyes are ready to reap the har­vest of their year of hard knocks. A rivalry always hard fought, next year's game should prove no ex­ception. 
October 14—Southern California at Notre Dame 
Since their infamous victory in '64, the Trojans have experienced nothing but misery. They return to South Bend once again to redeem them­selves for their disenchanted West Coast followers. 
October 21—Illinois at Champaign 
A new series will begin with the Fighting Ulini, who await the return of many lettermen to a squad which placed high in this year's Big Ten race. 
October 28—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
The perennial "Game of the Year" will only shift in scenery. 
November 4—Navy at Notre Dame 
Ara has had nothing but success against the Middies and will seek to lengthen his Armenian hex over the Sailors. 
November 11—Pittsburgh at Pitts­burgh 
The Panthers are another unpredict­able as their first-half performance of this year showed. The team is loaded with veterans and wiU be looking to no one for inspiration. 
November 18—Georgia Tech at At­lanta 
Long awaited, the game promises 
FRESHMAN SQUAD 
ENDS: Ed Devine (6-2, 205. Wald-wick, N.J.), Nick Furlong (6-1, 200, Pelham, N.Y.), Steve Lambert (6-1, 210, Kankakee, 111.), Tom Lawson (6-5, 230, New York, N.Y.), Duane Poskon (6-4, 220, Elizabeth, Pa.). Jay Ziznewski, (6-7, 250, Perth Am-boy, N.J.). 
TACKLES: Terry Brennan (6-4. 230, Chicago, HI.), Randy Harkins (6-3, 225. Athens, Ohio). Bob Jockisch (6-3, 260. Peoria. 111.), George Kelly (6-3, 237, Butler. Pa.). Charles Ken­nedy (6-3, 235, Claymont. Del.). Greg Kordic (6-2, 240, Cleveland. Ohio). Mike McCoy (6-414, 270, Erie, Pa.). Dan Romanski (6-2, 235, Wisconsin Rapids, Wis.). 

GUARDS: Jim Reilly (6-2, 230, Yonkers, N.Y.), Jim Ruzicka (6-1, 235, Portland, Ore.), Dick Sparhawk (5-11, 220, Cuyahoga Falls. Ohio). 
CENTERS: Larry Vuillemin (6-3, 240, Akron, Ohio). 
QUARTERBACKS: Jim DeArrieta (6-1, 180, Winnemucca, Nev.). John Duckers (6-0, 190, Kansas City. Kans.), John Gasser (6-2, 178, Logan, Ohio), Don Reid (6-1. 185, Flint, Mich.), Phil Wittliff (6-1, 205, Port Huron, Mich.). 
HALFBACKS: Pete Donohue (6-0, 193, Cincinnati. Ohio). Tom Gores (6­1, 180, Seattle, Wash.), Rick Ness (6-0, 185, Great Falls, Mont.), Jay Standring (5-10, 190, Chicago, HI.), Jeff Zimmerman (6-1. 205. Orwigs­burg, Pa.), Dick Weigand (6-1, 215, Akron, Ohio). 
FULLBACKS: Tom Nash (6-1, 225. Flushing, N.Y.), Kevin Ryan (5-11, 200, Columbus, Ohio), Larry Schu­macher (6-0, 208, East Orange, N.J.), Ed Ziegler (6-1, 213, Newport, Ky.). 
to be a classic between two well-stocked teams. AU-American Lenny Snow leads a host of Yellow Jackets against the Irish in the first of many battles to come. 
November 24-=—Miami at Miami (Fri­day Night) 
The Hurricanes, who tied the Irish in '65 and upset Florida in their finale this season, are a blustery lot in No­vember. Irish Dander and Southern Inhospitality will rock the Orange Bowl as the young but heated series grows hotter. 
Dec. 9, 1966 
Congratulations to ... 
1966 NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 
The CLASS of 1967 toasts the VICTORIOUS FIGHTING IRISH and especially those Seniors who have returned Notre Dame football to national prominence while accumulating a magnificent 25-3-2 record during their Varsity Careers. May success continue to follow your efforts. 
Harry Alexander  Bob Hagerty  Jim Lynch  Alan Sack  
Joe Azzaro  Kevin Hardy  Joe Marsico  Angelo Schiralli  
Leo Collins  John Horney  Ja«k Meyer  Fred Schnurr  
Larry Conjar  Ron Jeziorski  Alan Page  Paul Seller  
Pete Duranko  Gerald Kelly  Vic Paternostro  Dick Sivatland  
Nick Eddy  Jim Kelly  Tom Regner  Tim Wengierski  
Don Gmitter  Pete Lamantia  Tom Rhoads  John Zenner  
George Goeddeke  John Lium  Jim Ryan  Dave Zurowski  
Tim Gorman  

The Class of 1967 
OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME 
MINIATURES 
eg. ^^^^alcit-aiiJSj Sh Cg)Cg)cg3C§)Cg3C§5tg)Cg)t§. 
The 
SPECIAL 
CHRISTMAS GIFT for SPECIAL PEOPLE 
C§) C§> C§) C§) C§) C§) C§3 t§J C§) 
A beautiful token with a very special message, the Notre Dame miniature reproduces the official class ring design in delicately refined detail. Wide choice of plain and jeweled styles. Also match­ing wedding bands. 
qp dp C^ (^ C§3 ^ (^ C§) qp 
ORDER NOW FOR CHRISTMAS DELIVERY 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

iVfVA, 
during vacation come in and browse... 
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP 
good-looking suits and sportwear for undergraduates, in sizes 36 to 44 
We have a comprehensive and distinctive selection of clothing and furnishings in our University Shop, specially designed for undergraduates. Included among our 3-piece suits are worsted flannels, sport models in worsted cheviot, unfinished worsteds in herringbones...and interesting; new desisfns and colorings in tweed sport jackets...all reflecting Brooks styling and good taste. 
Suits, $85 to $95 • Tiveed Sport Jackets, $50 and $60 Ttueed Topcoats, from $90 ' FlatmeL Blazers, $55 Our Warm Outerwear, fro?n $35 
Prices slightly higher west of the Rockies. 
ESTABLISHED 1818 
'/m^ 

iens 2r Soys'furnishings, 5lats ^^boes 
7+ E. MADISON, NR. MICHIG.AN AVE., CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO 
Dec. 9, 1966 
STEAMED MILWAUKEE KNOCKWURST served with Hot Potato Salad 
i^ansJ l|atts(... 
Located at 2803 S. Michigan. 
Created with old-world atmosphere, specializing in German and American foods. Open 11:00 to 10:30. Ph. 282-1991. Closed Smiday. The ALPINE or BAVARIAN ROOM for your private 
parties accommodates 15 to 100 guests. 
Lovely Jewelry .. . Gifts at Moderate Prices 
from 
A family restaurant mth 
GERMAN FOOD 
as its specialty! 
BLOCK BROS. 
Jewelers to Noire Dome faculty & Students for over 40 years Michigan at Washington in Downtown South Bend 
'69 presents 
STUDY IN SOUTHERN FRANCE 
A University year in Aix-en-Provence under the auspices of the University of Aix-Mar­seille (founded 1409). 
EUROPEAN AREA STUDIES 
FRENCH LANGUAGE 
AND LITERATURE 
HONORS PROGRAM 
(courses in French University exclusively) 
ART AND ART HISTORY SOCIAL SCIENCES MEDITERRANEAN AREA STUDIES 
Classes in English and French satisfying curriculum and credit requirements of over 280 American Colleges and Universities. Students live in French homes. Total costs equivalent to those at private universities and colleges in the United States. 
"SEMESTER PROGRAM IN AVIGNON" 
"SUMMER PROGRAM 
IN AIXEN-PROVENCE" 
Write: INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES (founded 1957) 2 bis, rue du Bon Pasteur AIXEN-PROVENCE, FRANCE Telephone: France (Code 91) 27.82 39 
or (Code 91) 27.69.01 
... 

ITS CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 
1966 NATIONAL CHAMPS 
AND ESPECIALLY A GREAT GROUP OF SOPHS 
Mike Bars 
Bill Bartholomew 
Bob Belden Frank Griniti Bon Dushney Mike Earley Bay Fischer Boger Fox Mike Franger Joe Freebery Bob Gladieux 

Terry Hanratty 
Curt Heneghan 
Mike Holtzapf el 
Denny Kiliany 
Bob Kuechenberg 
George Kunz 
Chuck Landolfi 
Chuck Lauck 
John Lavin 
Jim Leahy 
Do it twice more 
BUI Mahoney 
Mike Malone 
Tom McKlnley 
Tim Monty 
Eric Norri 
Coley O'Brien 
Tom Quinn 
Tom Beynolds' 
Fat Schrage 
Jim Seymour 
—CLASS 
BiU Skoglund Tom Slettvett Paul Snow Brian Stenger Ed Tuck Ed Vuillemin Jim Winegardner Gerry Wisne Dave Yonto Bob Zubek 
_ 

Free yourself from shaving's tyranny with the new Norelco Tripleheader Speedshaver 35T, It has more features than any other shaver on the market. 18 rotary blades whip away whiskers at 77 miles an hour! And so close, we dare to match shaves with a blade. Yet comfortable. Rotary blades and very thin Microgroove floating heads can't nick or cut. With pop-up trimmer, on/off switch, 110/220 volts and coil cord, this new Norelco gives you all you need to ban the beard! 
Eyes right for the economically 
priced 'Flip-Top' Speedshaver*- 20. Two heads give you the famous rotary blade shave. Easy flip-top cleaning too. 
/Vore/c

orelCO'the fast, close, comfortable electric shave 
© Kio North American Philips Coniipany. Inc.. 100 Host 42nd Street. New Yor'<. New York 10017 
THE OFF CAMPUS STORE FOR MEN 
Ask your professor, tell your father, see for yourself; Rasmussen's 
has the finest quality men's clothing in northei'n Indiana. Rasmussen's is also a friendly, courteous store. 
The young man and the mature man alike will find a quiet relaxed atmosphere in which to discuss their clothing needs. When you enter Rasmussen's, notice the many quality brands thei'e are to choose from. You will find London Fog Rainwear, Tapered Gant, Arrow and Enro shirts. For casual wear you will choose from Thane Banlon Shirts, and full fashioned lambswool V-neck sweaters, Levi's sta-prest wash trousers, and Corbins Ivy dress trousers. For a more dressed-up look, try a Cricketeer Vested Suit with an Ivy Repp Tie. Rasmussen's also offer Jockey Underwear by Cooper, Adler Hosiery, and Swank Jewelry. When you browse through Rasmussen's you will also see full lines of Pendleton Clothes, Norman Hilton Clothes, and Baker Clothes. Finally for the mature man who wants the best, Rasmussen's are the exclusive i^epresentatives in this area for Churchill Hats and Oxxford Clothes, the finest anywhere. When the northern Indiana winds blow in cool weather, be prepared with year around clothes from Rasmussen's — only l^A blocks from the downtown bus stop. 
See Rasmussen's campus fashions in the Cypress Room. All NOTRE DAME MEN are invited to stop in and have a Pepsi at the Pepsi bar. See you soon at 
RASMUSSEN'S 
130 West Washington St. 232-4839 




