rSWS^«z«^^s 
THE OTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
W^^r  
,^4>  •»"^^^'^  
-ff:  
»~r  Vr»-*  
~:J^  '  
^*^­ 
^  •  %  
'  \  ^  %  
,.v ^  '  
^^.tf^rn^  
4>-^*^^  %•  
^  t.-r«*%"  v;­ 

COME TO THE CAMPUS SHOP FOR SMART 
COATS FOR ALL-WEATHER WEAR 
The Windsor, illustrated, from our collec­tion of fine all-weather rainwear. This handsome water-repellent cotton gabar­dine coat is by Baracuta, maker of Britain's finest rainwear. Regulars, shorts and' longs. In true oyster white. 37.50. 
Here's the rugged Nordic Viking by McGregor, from our collection of hand­some Great Coats for wintery weather. This fine coat- keeps you warm because of the new 3-layer lining: Quilted nylon, Curan and Nylon fill. Light as a feather and machine washable. 39.95. 

GILBERT'S 
On the Campus—Notre Dame 
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY: 
No Carrying Charge 
EVERY Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. You are invited to use this convenient way to purchase what you need when you need it. Here you can select from the most famous brand names in America . . . from the finest clothing and furnishings obtainable in today's world markets. Here you will find a complete range of sizes, styles and models. So come in soon . . . get what you need and charge it the Campus Shop way. 
GILBERT'S 
On the Campus—Notre Dame 
December 2, 1960 
11^ 



QbCanrpiss 
{Author of "I Was a Tern-age Dwarf',"The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.) 
HOW TO BEAT THE BEAT GENERATION 
My cousin Herkie Nj-^let is a sturdy lad of nineteen summers who has, we all be­lieved until recently, a lively intelligence and an assured future. Herkie's father, Walter O. Nylet, is as everyone knows, president of the First National Artificial Cherry Company, world's largest maker of artificial cherries for ladies' hats. Uncle Walter had great plans for Herkie. Last year he sent Herkie to the Maryland Col­lege of Humanities, Sciences, and Arti­ficial Cherries, and he intended, upon Herkie's graduation, to find him a nice fat wife and take liim into the firm as a full partner. 
Could a young man have more pleasing prospects? Of course not. But a couple of months ago, to everyone's consterna­tion, Herkie announced that he was not going into the artificial cherry business. Nor was he going to stay in college. "I am." said Herkie, "a member of the Beat Generation. I am going to San Francisco and grow a beard." 
Well sir, you can imagine the commotion in the family when Herkie went traipsing ofif to San Francisco! Uncle Walter would have gone after him and dragged him home, but unfortunately he was right in the middle of the artificial cherry season. Aunt Thelma couldn't go things of life—like good tobacco, like easy-drawing filtration, like settling back and getting comfortable and enjojnng a full-flavored smoke. One is. despite all appearances, basically happiness-orient­ed, fulfillment-directed, pleasure-prone. 

"Herkie, what are you doing with your­self?" I asked. 
"I am finding myself," he replied. "I am writing a novel in the sand with a pointed stick. I am composing a fugue for clavier and police whistle. I am sculpt­ing in experimental materials—like English muffins." 
"And what do you do for fun?" I asked. 
"Come," he said and took me to a dank little night club where men in beards and women in basic burlap sat on orange crates and drank espresso. On a tiny stage stood a poet reciting a free-form work of his own composition entitled Excema: The Story of a Boy while behind him a jazz trio played 200 choruses of 
either because of her old leg 

^MtWiWyouP'
trouble. (One of her legs is 
older than the other.) 
So I went. I searched San Francisco for weeks before I found Herkie living under the counter of a Pronto Pup stand. "Herkie, how are you?" I cried, looking distraughtly upon his tangled beard, his corduroy jacket, his stricken eyes. 
"Beat," said Herkie. 
I offered him a Marlboro and felt in­stantly better when he took it because when one smokes Marlboros, one cannot be too far removed from the world. One still has, so to speak, a hold on the finer 

And you too voiU be happy—mth 
Tin Roof Blues. 

"Herkie," said I, "come home with me to the artificial cherries." 
"No," said Herkie, so sadly I went home to tell Uncle Walter the bad news. He was less distressed than I had feared. It seems Uncle Walter has another son, a quiet boy named Edyorts, about whom he had completely forgotten, and today Edvorts is in business with Uncle Walter and Herkie is beat in San Francisco, and everyone is happy. © i960 Mms shuiman 
Marlboros, or if you prefer 
an unaltered smoke, with Philip Morris. Try the brand-new PhiUp Morris king-size Commander—long, mild, and leis­urely. Have a Commander—welcome aboard! 
This airplane is actually a flying classroom. The course taught in it is Air Navigation, under real con­ditions. The students are young men who have been selected as pos­sible future leaders of the Aero­space Team. Graduation after 32 weeks of training will win each of the students the honored silver wings of an Air Force Navigator and an Officer's Commission. 
For certain young men, this training can open the way to a bright career of executive poten­tial. Right now the Air Force is scoring impressive technological advances in the fields of naviga­tion, guidance and tracking, elec­tronics and radar. And here is where its highly trained and expe­rienced Navigators will be expected to take over command positions of increasing responsibility. 
To qualify for Navigator train­ing as an Aviation Cadet, you must be between 19 and 26/4—single, healthy and intelligent. And you must want to build an exciting, interesting career in the Aerospace Age. If you think you measure up, we'd like to talk to you at the near­est Air Force Recruiting Oflice. Or clip and mail this coupon. 
There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the -^ -j. ^-^ Aerospace Team. I I 1^ ^. 




Air rorce 
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY AVUTION CADET INFORMATION #" DEFT. SCLOU BOX 7fi0e. WASHINGTON 4, D. C. 
I am between 19 and 26J4) a citizen of 
the U.S. and a high school graduate with 
years of cc^ege. Please send me 
detailed information on the Aviation 
Cadet program. 
NAME 
STREET­
CITY___ 


COUNTY_ ..5TATE. 
. ^J 
The Scholastic 

• 
There's no stopping a man at Du Pont,.. if he is well educated, with capacity to grow ... if he has ideas and job-interest. For as our employees groxA^, we grow. The more experience they get on the job, the more they come to know about their fields, the more challenges they meet successfully.. .the better it is for all of us. 
That's the philosophy that guides our training program, our \Na.y of working. It's the reason why, when you go places 

HOW FAR DO YOU WANT TO GO 
? 
with DuPont, you're in good company... with many other "achievers." 
There are good jobs with Du Pont for engineers, chemists, physicists and math­ematicians— B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. For more information about opportunities here, write us. Tell us your course of study so we can send you the appro­priate booklet. Du Pont, Room 2430-12 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware. 
iUMO 
«*.«.i.H(.a)» 

Better Things for Better Living .. . fhrovgh Chem&try 
December 2, 2960 
Contact Lens Spedidist 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 


Optometrist 
• EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAmS GLASSES FITTED • 

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
ABOUT THE COVER 
This year's FOOTBALL REVIEW cover features a color photograph taken at the Navy-Notre Dame game in Philadelphia. The photo shows the Irish line preparing to meet the thrust of a hard charging Navy defensive forward wall. 
George Haffner, the Notre Dame quarterback, is taking the ball from center as the two lines await initial contact. 
MeDondd Studios 
• 



"The Finest in Portraits" 
• 
129 N. MAIN Temporary location 
HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PORTRAIT TAKEN NOW! 


how to get a head 
It's easy to make headway (female-wise, campus-wise and every-wise) if you use 'Vaseline' Hair Tonic . . . made spe­cially for men who use water with their hair tonic. 'Vaseline' Hair Tonic's 100% pure, light grooming oil replaces oil that water removes. 'Vaseline' Hair Tonic will not evaporate .. . will remain clear and clean. And just a little does a lot! 
o






VASELINE HAIR TONIC 
'VASELINE' IS A REGISTERCO TRADEMARK OF CHESESROUGH-PONO'S WC 
AVAILABLE AT 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
The Scholastic 

Vol. 102 No. 9 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
December 2, 1960 



football review 
editor-in-chief 
JAMES KILROY 
associate editors 
WILLIAM GARY JOHN BECHTOLD 
editorial consultants 
CHARLES RIECK ROY RUBELI 
special contributors 

JERRY HEWITT ROBERT SCHAEFER /# ROBERT CHIAPPINELLI THOMAS BRANNIGAN DAVID KILROY TERRY WOLKERSTORFER DAVID WILLIAMS THOMAS WALSH PETER REILLY 
photography 

tk 
WALTER DALY, JR. 

ii^ 
contributing photographers 
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER JAMES TAKEUCHI 
cover designer 
DENNIS LUCZAK 
contributing artist 
JAMES BRUNETTE 
business manager 
JOSEPH FINNIGAN 
circulation manager 
JAMES RICKEY 
bookkeeper 
JOHN BERNAT 

The Football Review is a regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the SCHOLASTIC is ac­cepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. 
CONTENTS 
PAGE 

The 1960 Season in Review .12-13 
Notre Dame in action 24-25 
Individual game summax-ies 14-33 
California _ 14 
Purdue 15 
North Carolina 16 
Michigan State IT 
Noi'thwestern 19 
Navy 20 
Pittsburgh _ 21 
Miami 31 
Iowa 32 
Southern California 33 Notre Dame Pep Rallies 22 Behind the scenes 23 College Sports Editor's AU-American 27-29 Notre Dame Stadium _ 34 Notre Dame Senior Footballers , 38-39 Sports Publicity 40 The Irish Coaching Staff 41 Freshman team 42 Football managers 44 Prospects for 1961 47 
December 2, 1960 
u 


LOOK FOR THESE 
m. & ff. 
FiMOVS BKMDS 

IS ROBERTSON'S 


NEr S STORE! 
ADlBt • AIRMAN •ARROW •BRENTWOOD -BUXTON B.VJ>. -aiMAnC •DONEGAL -DON RICHARDS OOPP Mr • GOLD rOE • HAGGAR • MOCOfC • JANTZBi 
JOCKEY • UK O' CASE • MARLBORO • MCGREGOR 
MUNSNGWEAR •PARS • PlEETMMr »PRINCE GARDNER 
PURITAN •RAWFAIR -REMINGTON -REVERE ROLfS •SCMCff -SEUORK -SUNBEAM -SUPERB SUPERBA • SWANK • VAN HEUSEN • WEIDON • W^ULET 

A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY 
WANTED: 
The Scholastic is seeking 
Ad Salesmen. Opporfunities for advancement. * 
See JOE FINNIGAN 220 Alumni 
id 


DR. N. HZDALE 
OPTOMETBIST 
CONTAa LENSES 
Inquiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED Q 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 to 24-Hour Service 


305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477 

 CLUB ATMOSPHERE t




THE MORRIS INN 
"on the campus" 
Completely Air-Condirioned *> 
92 Rooms 92 Bofhs 
•
 TERRACE DINING ROOM • CIRCULATING ICE WATER 

•
 PRIVATE RINCnON ROOMS • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM 

•
 BEAUTIFUL PATIO • GOLF PRIVILEGES • LARGE PARKING AREA 


uJelicwus ^ooc 3>eli9hfJ (Drinks 
0' 

ExcellMit fadlHies for Banquets, Dfamen, Lundieons, Meotings and Recepliom 
Prompt AUtnlwu  WiU Be Give* Yomr Retenmtio* Request . . . Sorry, No PMie  Sale of Rooms for Home FocthaU Week Buds.  
S  and OiMiatod by UMVBSITY of NOTRE DAME  ARMAND E. LYSAK, AAonoger -J ­The Scholastic  

Some Popular Titles 
GENERAL INTEREST 
NOTRE DAME, 100 YEARS 
By Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C 

ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY 
Edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C 
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798 
By Marshall Smelser. 
THE IMAGE OF MAN 

Edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Frank O'Malley and 
Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C 

INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
 $4.00  OF LIFE  $4.50 
 $5.00 
 $6.00 
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940 
By Albert N. Tarulis  _  $5.50  
DIPLOMACY  IN A CHANGING  WORLD  
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons  $7.50  

THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925 
Edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczesniak WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons 
PAPERBACKS 
CHAUCER CRITICISM. THE CANTERBURY TALES 
Edited by Richard Schoeck and Jerome Taylor TOWARDS A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF HISTORY By Bernard Norling 
THE FIFTH REPUBLIC By Ferdinand A. Hermens 

COMING SOON NOTRE DAME'S JOHN ZAHM By Ralph E. Weber THE IRISH REPUBLIC By Cornelius O'Leary THE MIDWEST: MYTH OR REALITY Edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C A HISTORY OF FORMAL LOGIC 
$6.75 
 $4.75 
 $1.45  -$1.95  $1.95 
 $4.25  $1.95  $4.00 
By I. M. Bochenski. Translated and edited by Ivo Thomas..$ 17.50 
AMERICAN DIPLOMACY SINCE THE SECOND WORLD WAR Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz _.$8.50 RELIGION AS A VOCATION. A STUDY IN THE SOCIOLOGY 
OF OCCUPATIONS  
By Joseph H. Rchter, S.J  $5.50  
FAITH IN THE SYNOPTIC  GOSPELS  
By Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C  $4.00  

DEAR NOTRE DAME STUDENT: 
As we near the Christmasrgiving. sea­son, our thoughts quite properly turn to gifts we'd like to present to our loved ones. Yet we would be less than human if, these matters disposed of, we did not dream of gifts we'd like for ourselves. 
Perhaps, as a student, the best gift you could give yourself would be a book. Yet this seems so formidable an idea (espe­cially when you are literally up to your neck in books), that the temptation to re­ject it out of hand is strong. 
But should the idea of giving yourself a "meaty" book inspire such fear and trembling? Not at all, we say. True, to succeed in study, one must discipline one's self. But disciplined study need not be a grim, unpleasant ordeal; it can be, and often is, a pleasure. And that is where we come in. 
Here at the University Press, we are dedicated to a publishing program that is piuposely designed to make the discipli­nary process of scholarly study a matter of pleasure rather than penance. 
Why don't you try a few of the books we have listed here? We think you'll agree that we prove our thesis that study can be pleasurable. 
Remember — the Christmas-giving sea­son is not only for others, but for your­self too. 
Sincerely, 
^keZditoU 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
December 2, 1960 
lEWELEBS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. 
Gifts Wrapped and Mcdled To AU Parts of the World 
BLOCK BROS. 

Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend 
Paul's Shoe Shop 
Catering to Students and Faculty e GENERAL SHOE REPAIRING SHOE ACCESSORIES QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE 
In Rear of Administration Building 
Noire Dcme Boobfore 

we're making a clean sweep in this CHRISTMAS T> 
SALE 
•^ 

SAVE UP TO 80 PERCENT 
ON 
BOOKSo PHNTS 
DEC. 3-20 
Second Floor Notre Dame 
BOOK STORE O k 
The Scholastic ^ 

Now an engagement ring design so distinctive— it is protected by a U. S. design patent*! This exclusive Artcan/ed "Evening Star" design drama­tizes the diamond as other rings can't do. Even a modest diamond appears impressively radiant and rich. Isn't this what you want for your love? Then accept no less. Look for the name stamped in each ring. It is your assurance of a genuine "Evening Star" engagement ring by Artcarved. And only with Artcarved do you receive a written guarantee for diamond quality—plus the protection of the nationwide Permanent Value Plan. 
• U.S UESIUM PATENT NO, 188,805 

Discover more about this exciting ring and other valuable tips on diamond ring buying. Write tO: 
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-80. 216 E. 45th St., N. Y. 17, N.Y. 
NAME. 
ADDRESS­

CITY-_ZONE_ _STATE_ 
T^rt c a rve d 
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS 
Beloved hy brides for more than 100 years (1850-1960) 
"Welcomes AH Notre Dame Men I I 
Your Headquarters For 
Keepscik e 
o 
OMEGA 
WATCHES 
'\rtcarved 
DIAMOND RINGS 
BULOVA 
WATCHES 
vv///////J 
^ ^/////////// 
^\ atvhps 

PATEK PHILIPPE 
The WmHd*» Fmremoat Wmieh 

14 Kt. GoM Chorms Bnxelefs - Pendants Crosses - Wedding Banck 
Charge accounts avaflobl* 
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4.1311 
^j 

Experience Teaches 
Last August, football prognosticators throughout the country predicted that this was the year for Notre Dame's rise back to the pinnacle of the football powers. Elaborating on their forecasts, they pointed out that more than 20 lettermen were returning. Many pre­dictions went further, emphasizing the fact that Joe Kuharich was now familiar with his team's material after a year's association. 
Finally, all must have remembered the tradition at Notre Dame—great football teams. Thus, it wasn't surprising to see the name of Notre Dame ranked in the top ten in many pre-season polls. 
MANY PROBLEMS 
If only these forecasters had known the manifold problems soon to become apparent, they would never have been so talkative. Others, including Coach Joe Kuharich, knew, yet their opinions were not heeded. Prior to the season's opener, Kuharich was asked about Notre Dame's prospects for a successful 1960 season. The Irish mentor answered truthfully when he stated that "for Notre Dame, 1960 will be a question mark." 
Coach Kuharich proved to be the best prognosticator. He realized the many arduous tasks ahead, one of which was to find and keep a peiinanent number one team, a team that would woi-k to­gether in giving the Irish offense and defense a united front. This failure to find the eleven permanent men who would hold down first string berths for the entire season became apparent in the first game and continued to pose a prob­lem for the Irish coaches throughout the 1960 campaign. 
The Purdue-Notre Dame contest was the game that shocked Irish fans into reality. Here, the loyal followers recog­nized the difficult road ahead for 1960, And here the prognosticators found themselves to be mistaken. 
All saw the Notre Dame miscues that afternoon. They saw fumbles, pass in­terceptions, missed tackles, poor block­ing and inadequate offense. Cei-tainly it was disheartening to many of the loyal followers. But at least the realization had begun. 
THE YEAR 1960 

1960 is a season many would probably like to forget. But the 2-8 won and loss record is just the surface. This is neither the tnie nor complete story of the prog­ress that was made. Nor is it an accurate representation of the effort on the part of the coaches and the players. Never 
J-%i i^i,_x^ 

;-' 4fM*, —­
fOOTB^U­
t960 
COACH JOE KUHARICH — THOUGHTS OF THE YEAR At the beginning of fall football practice, many teams have the tradition of open­ing the season with pictures of the players and coaches. Here Irish mentor Joe Kuharich leans on the sign which was later used for the official opening when Captain Myron Pottios charged through with a football. 
has thei'e been a coaching staff which sought more to help their team. Nor has any Notre Dame team exerted more ef­fort in ti-ying to win for its student body than has this representative group of 1960 Irish footballers. 
But what of the football season itself? What actually happened to the Notre Dame team that completed its schedule with a 2-8 record? One of the principal reasons for this record has already been stated. The Notre Dame football team did not have eleven men who could be counted upon to give an outstanding per­formance in each game. Many factors contributed to this absence of a steady eleven that could produce victory after victory on Saturday afternoons. 
The first problem and perhaps one of the most mammoth that Coach Joe Ku­harich had to solve all season long was the "question mark" at quarterback. When the 1960 season opened, Notre Dame had only one "seasoned" quarter­back, George Haffner, in its midst. And in all fairness to letterman Haffner, it cannot be said that he had previously had sufficient experience. Haffner's game performances in his sophomore year had amounted to just 22 passes and eight running plays on his part. 
Therefore Kuharich, trying to strength­en the position's depth, also used Daryle Lamonica, Norb Eascher and Ed Rutkowski, the first-year aspirants for the signal calling job. Thus, from the veiy outset of the season, the coaching staff was forced to fi-eely interchange the men to determine which one was most capable at handling the job. And each week, one responded better than the others, with Lamonica demonstrating his fine ability in the Southern California clash at the season's conclusion. 
This same problem of inexperience was apparent at the other positions in the lineup also. Throughout the year, fullback was one of the most bother­some problems because the coaching staff could not find a pennanent replacement for the depai-ted Geriy Gray. Each time it was thought that the man for the job had been discovered, he would then come up with an injury. The coaches found themselves in the continuous cycle of trying to find the right man for the position. Inexperience became the rule, not the exception. 
At end, there was the same problem of inexperience. Only Les Ti-aver and Max Bumell returned with any extensive ex­perience. Reliance on the sophomore group or untried upperclassmen was the next step. At halfback and tackle, there was this same problem of inexperience which, though not too prevalent in the first string, caused quite a lack of depth beyond the first-line corps. 
Steady performances were in demand at every position and such performances the coaches could not find. Thus, one reason for Notre Dame's failure in 1960 was lack of experience. 
The Scholastic 
vDl 
&m 
0i 
I* 
0 
e' 
O' 

A TUNNEL FOR THE 1960 FIGHTING IRISH 
New expression of spirit by the loyal students. 
THE INJURY JINX 
i 1959 was supposed to have been the year when the Irish football team was jinxed by injuries. Yet, Notre Dame fol­lowers are not seeking an outlet if they blame a great part of the 1960 failures on the casualty list. Rarely has a team been so hard hit and at so many key positions as was the 1960 Fighting Irish eleven. In an almost unbelievable series of ill-fortunes, the Kuharichmen lost men of the caliber of Red Mack, John tkPowers, Myron Pottios, Bob Bill, Mike Lind and Bob Scarpitto. The loss of Mack in the Purdue game was of special significance and seemed to forecast the ill fate ahead. Mack was more than a great college football player. He was a leader and an example to the others on the team, many times inspiring them to greater efforts. With his loss, the fortunes of the team began to falter -, and the road seemed to go only down. 
•The need for the "road runner" in the backfield became more apparent in each succeeding week. 
Thus, the big man in the attack was missing. Gray, Lind or someone else in the backfield might have been able to take up the slack. Yet, all of the "big" men were injured either permanently or tempoi'arily. 
One might say that injuries are a part of football which must be com­pensated for at the beginning of the season. This is true. Yet, the list of Notre Dame injuries is far greater than anyone would have anticipated. 
FROM START TO FINISH 
Winning the first game of the season is a great psychological lift for any team and probably was so in Notre Dame's case even though the Irish were effect when the team is losing and cause a general attitude of complacency. Yet, this did not happen to the 1960 Irish. Each week, the Notre Dame footballers went on to the field hoping to do their best and dissatisfied if they didn't. In some instances, such as the Purdue en­counter, the Notre Dame players ac­tually exerted too much effort, this ef­fort resulting in costly mistakes as the Irish tried to make a comeback. 
It was these big mistakes that mined the Irish throughout the season. In al­most every game except the last, the Irish actually played on even terms Avith the opponent but the "big mistake" was 
the reason for Notre Dame's oft-re­
peated appearance in the lost column. 
The defensive line must receive a great 

amount of credit for its play in the 
season finale. Traver, Bill, Pottios, 
Burke, Roy and the other bulwarks com­
pletely dominated play in stopping the 
Trojans cold. 
Credit must be given to this defensive foi"ward wall not only for its dominance in the Southern California game, but for the entire season. The Notre Dame foi-ward wall played on at least even terms with the opposing lines evei-y game. They held such great running teams as Iowa and Pittsburgh to below-average totals on loishing offense. 
A SUDDEN COMEBACK 
Surely, the Southern California game can be called Notre Dame's most pro­ductive effort of the season, both offen­sively and defensively. Offensively, the attack which had sputtered all season long, suddenly became an effective weapon. The Irish backs now moved through the Trojan line with ease as they outgained the larger hosts with a total offense of 306 to 74. Added to the now-potent Irish offense was the ever-reliable defense, yielding a picture of over-all efliciency. 
But can the Southern California game be used as a criterion for the forecast of Notre Dame's 1961 season? I think not. The judgements must come from the total season, a season in which the Irish did not win often. To win consistently next year Notre Dame is going to need this same eflBciency displayed in the Southern California game. The gi-oundwork has been laid and the young team certainly has improved. Mastery of all phases of the game appears to be the next step. 1961 should be an inter­esting year at Notre Dame. 
—Jay Kilroy 

not at their best against their opening 
day visitors, California. Many times, KUHARICH MEDITATES BEFORE THE NAVY GAME 
the psychology can have the opposite Midshipmen in the background view the pacing Irish mentor. 
Nofre Dame 27 
California 7

INITIATION: 1960 
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 24, 1960—As a crowd of 50,000 fans 
looked on in 84-degree sunshine, Notre Dame, paced by the 
running- of halfback Bob Scarpitto, inaugurated their 72nd 
season of football with an easy 21-7 conquest of California. 
Hampered by a sporadic running offense and a total lack 
of passing ability, the Notre Dame squad was actually out­
played by the smaller, less experienced visitors in the first 
half, but the Irish bounced back after the intennission to put 
the game on ice late in the third period. By that time the 
dominance of the Notre Dame line was beginning to tell, and 
the turning point came when Irish guard Nick DePola blocked 
a Cal quick-kick attempt and carried the ball over the goal 
line for the final score of the day. 

DePola's play only served to emphasize the decisiveness 
of the ND line play in the outcome of the contest. With ends 
Little Notre Dame halfback George Sefcik lunges for extra yardage as Bear defensemen converge to make the tackle. 
Les Traver and Johnny Powers closing oS the Bear wide 
runs, the middle of the Irish line held the big California 
backs to a total of 41 yards rushing for the entire game. In 
addition, when the Notre Dame defensive backfield proved 
unable to slow the Bear passing attack, it was the constant 
pressure on the Cal quarter-back by the line that ended this 
threat. 
When the Irish did get their offense rolling, it was the 
running of senior right half Bob Scai-pitto that led the way. 
Listed at second string when the game began, Scarpitto ex­
ploded for two touchdowns on 33-yard and eight-yard runs, 
and gained a total of 83 yards rushing in seven carries, aside 
from setting off the only sustained touchdown march that 
Notre Dame could put together with his 44-yard return of 
the second half kickoff. 
Sharing some of the offensive spotlight, though, was the 
Grolden Bears' rookie quarterback. Randy Gold. With his line 
unable to provide running room, the Cal sophomore struck 
through the air, completing 13 of 18 passes for 154 yards. 
Playing in his second college ball game. Gold hit on seven of eight attempts in the first half alone, and only the fact that his eighth receiver was out of bounds when he caught the ball ruined his perfect record. It was only when the superior size and strength of the Irish line wore down his forward wall in the middle of the third quarter that Gold's effectiveness was thwarted. 
It was this same defensive line that set up the first Notre Dame score Avhen Joe Carollo recovered a Cal fumble on the Bear 24-yard line with six minutes left in the first period. Three plays later, with Scarpitto and fullback Bill Henneghan carrying the ball, the Irish moved to the Cal eight. Scarpitto 
then went wide around left end for the first ND touchdown of the season. Joe Perkowski's kick was good and the Irish led, 7-0. 
The score finally roused the Bears' offense as they took Perkowski's kickoff, and with Gold smartly mixing up hard running with four complete passes, marched 76 yards in 17 ^ plays for the tying touchdown. Fullback George Pierovich covered the final three yards, driving over right tackle for six points, and QB Jim Ferguson added the seventh to knot the score at 7-7, where it remained till the half. 
When play resumed, Scarpitto opened things up for the Irish by taking Roger StuU's kickoff back 44 yards to the Cal 
48. Four plays later, largely on the strength of sophomore fullback Mike Lind's running, Notre Dame had moved to first and ten on the Bear 33. Then Scarpitto swept wide around left end again, and this time went 33 yards for the score. Perkowski again added the point, and the Irish took the lead 
•»' 

again, 14-7. Later in the same period, with third down and twelve on its own 15, California attempted its second quick-kick of the afternoon. However, sophomore guard Nick DePola, an oppor­tunist rookie playing in his first ball game, shot through the Bear line, took the ball off punter Jeri-y Scattini's foot, and kept right on going into the end zone. Perkowski's kick fin­ished the scoring for both teams as the final Irish attempt failed when Scarpitto dropped George Haffner's pass on the Bear five-yard line. The win marked the 453rd victory in the history of Notre Dame football, and the 54th opening day triumph for the i^ Irish since 1900 — against two losses and four ties. However in spite of the victory, the game did not provide many answers for Irish followers to what Coach Joe Kuharich had termed a "question mark season." Inexperience was showing through at many points — particularly in such fundamentals as tackling and backfield blocking. In spite of this, an even more glaring weakness showed up in regard to the most important tactical weapon in the game — the forward pass. The Irish simply could not pass, or could not catch, and, even worse, they could not de­fend adequately against opposition throwing. Without this weapon to vary the offense, the Notre Dame eleven had a hard time mo-ving the ball. Only once had they scored on a sustained drive, and that one had begun on the California 48. When the gun finally ended the game, the Irish had their first victory, but Coach Kuharich and his staff had many problems to solve before meeting much tougher opposition in the weeks to come. —^Jerry Hewitt 
Irish defenders Nick DePola, John Powers and Ed Hoerster hurry after unidentified California runner in season opener. 
The Scholastic 

Nofre Dame 19 Purdue 51 
A WAKENING 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 1, 1960—Taking advantage of the breaks offered by a fumbling Notre Dame football team, Purdue's Boilermaker footballers ran up the highest point total ever scored on an Irish squad in the history of Notre Dame 
. Stadium in scoi-ing a 51-19 tiiumph. A capacity crowd of 59, 235 sat stunned as the Boilermaker machine scored the first seven times it got possession of the football and was in posses­sion for the eighth time when the first half ended. 
The inexperienced Irish were able to match the visitors score for score in the first quarter but fell completely apart in a nightmarish ten minutes and 17 seconds of the second stanza as they lost the ball four times on fumbles and inter­ceptions. When the half was over the scoreboard read: Purdue 45, Notre Dame 13. 
The porous pass defense displayed against the visitors was taken advantage of with seven minutes left in the first quarter I when Maury Guttman hit Don Elwell with a 44-yard pass for 
Purdue's first score. 
The shoddy tackling was taken advantage of with five minutes left in the first quarter when Purdue halfback Bob Wiater, who is definitely not the fastest back the Irish will face this season, broke loose from his own 22-yard line and lum­bered 78 yards for the TD as three ND men missed clean shots at him near midfield. 
The Irish displayed some offensive prowess of their own in the initial stanza as they struck quickly after Purdue's first score on a 64-yard jaunt off tackle by Bob Scarpitto. Joe Perkowski's kick, however, was wide to the right and the score stood, 7-6, with 6:22 remaining in the period. 
After Wiater's TD the Irish again stormed back, helped by a 50-yard run by Perkowski, to score on a 24-yai-d George Haffnei--to-Angelo Dabiero pass play. This time Perkowski's kick was good and the score was 14-13. 
And then came the second quarter. 
Purdue took the ensuing kickoff and marched 64 yards in nine plays, another Guttman-to-Elwell pass being a key need, to score with 14:25 left. Bemie Allen's thii'd of six successful PAT'S made it 21-13. 
Tom Yakubowski recovered an Irish fumble moments later on the ND 20-yard line. Three plays later, Allen kicked a 34-yard field goal and it was 24-13. 
Reserve halfback Tom Bloom intercepted Haffner's pass and returned to the Ii-ish 13-yard stripe, but Purdue was penalized back to the 28. Four plays later, Yakubowski made it 31-13. Time: 8:54 left. 
But more important than this score itself was the loss of Bill "Red" Mack, one of the finest backs ever to wear an Irish 
Sophomore quarterback Daryle Lamonica bootlegs the ball around right end with the aid of a devastating block by Myron Pottios. 
December 2, 1960 
jersey, on the play preceding the score. The Redhead's spirit and desire were an important necessity on a squad that lacks a strong senior core of leadership. He was a competitor who would never give up, despite the odds. Seeing him carried off on a stretcher was a crushing blow to his younger teammates. 
After the kickoff, Haffner's fumble was recovered by Forest Farmer on the Irish 41-yard line. Five plays later AUen faked a handoff, then dropped back and hit Jim Tiller all alone on the Irish five-yard line and he waltzed over for a 38-13 bulge. Time: 5:47. 
The next score resulted when Scarpitto punted to the Purdue 35 where Tiller fielded it. Helped by a combination of nifty running, crisp blocking and poor tackling, he danced 65 yards along the sidelines to score, making it 45-13. Time: 4:08. 
At the final outcome, perhaps the most amazing thing, con­sidering the score, was the fact that the final statistics were 
Tackle Ed Burke spoils Boilermaker tackle Larry Bowie's liopcs of tackling speedy George Sefcik before he circles right end. 
almost exactly even. Both teams had 358 yards total offense, and the Irish actually out first-downed the Boilermakers, 18-17. 
Many things came to the front in this defeat. The one thing that stood out most was the fact that the Irish will have to fight tooth-and-nail to break even on the rough schedule ahead of them as they do not have the material necessary for such rugged games. 
This team, however, will have its moments of greatness, but whether these moments will offset moments such as the second quarter of todas^s game remains to be seen- One thing' is certain, however, and that is, the Irish caimot give any of the opponents remaining on the schedule the easy scores and stiU hope to come back and "win. 
Another thing which came to the front is the absence of a strong nucleus of experienced seniors who could help to steady the team in moments of weakness such as the second quarter of today's game again. The loss of Mack furthers this defi­ciency. Coupled with this blow was the loss also for the season of another real competitor. Junior end John Powers, with a knee injury. 
However, some of the questions in regards to personnel were answered. Here, the picture is brighter. George Sefcik and Mike Lind both showed that they have recovered from their knee operations. They combined for 103 yards rushing. Captain Myron Pottios made his first appearance of the year and his knee also seems okay for the season ahead. 
There were other bright spots also, Daryle Lamonica seems to be the answer at quarterback. Soph guard Nick DePoIa continued his fine play. Soph tackle Ed Burke also played well. 
—Bob Schaefer 
'J' 

Notre Dame 7 North Carolina .... 72
FRUSTRATION 
Chapel Hill, N.C., Oct. 8, 1960—A battling Notre Dame 
team, trying to erase the pain of a .51-19 beating received from 
Purdue the previous week, ran into a fired-up group of North 
Carolina football players and a rash of bad luck as it bowed 
12-7 here today. The game was played before a Tar Heel 
homecoming crowd of 40,000 fans. 
The afternoon started auspiciously for the Irish. The first 
time North Carolina got its mitts on the ball, Notre Dame's 
George Sefcik snatched a wayward pass on the enemy 41. 
Three plays later this Green threat was ended with a resound­
ing thud as the Tar Heel's great center Rip Hawkins dashed 
through the Irish line, latched onto fullback Mike Lind, and 
deposited him on the turf for a two-yard loss on a third down 
and two situation. 
Bob Scarpitto then boomed a punt to his opponents' three-
yard line. Unable to move his team for the needed first down, 
North Carolina halfback Skip Clement battles Irish halfback Bob Scarpitto for the ball. Clement was called for interference. 
quarterback Ray Farris punted to George Sefcik, situated on North Carolina's 44. The sturdy little back toted the punt back to the 39. 
Stai-ting quarterback Daryle Lamonica now chucked an 18­yard pass to Max Burnell and Irish hopes soared. An overland route was pursued next, and three thrusts brought the ball to the 13. Here misfortune arose, as defensive back Lenny Beck pilfered a Lamonica pass. 
The Notre Dame defense remained rigid and, before the first quarter ended, the Irish had paraded from their own 22­yard line to the home team's 35 only to be halted by a fumble. 
Carolina initiated its first serious offensive drive in the second period. Fai-ris led his charges to their visitors' 28-yard stripe. Sefcik once again stepped into the plot and grabbed his second Farris flip of the day to stop the march. 
After this interception, neither team was able to accom­plish much in the way of territorial gains imtil Farris cranked up the Tar Heel offense and set it loose on his o\vn 26. From there, the brilliant quarterback drove his forces to the 47 of Notre Dame. He then stepped back and made pass connections with his halfback. Skip Clement, who was visible all alone behind the Notre Dame secondary. After catching the ball, Clement traveled unmolested into the end zone. The score was a severe blow to the Irish, who had dominated play until this time. Clement's try for the extra point was blocked by Nick DePola. 
The period began ebbing away, and it seemed that the 
Green would head into the dressing room trailing by only six 
points. This deficit did not loom at all large in view of the 
domination of the first half by Notre Dame. However, Mike 
Greenday had other plans. Late in the half he streaked in 
front of Leo Caito, grabbed Clay Schulz' heave and departed 
for the end zone, a distance of 42 yards. Only seconds remained 
when he arrived in the pay-dirt territory. Once again the 
point-after attempt was a failure. 
For Notre Dame, the second half of this game proved to be one of the most frustrating halves any team has ever experienced. The Irish spent the greater part of these 30 minutes roaming aroimd inside the Carolina 3.5-yai-d line, but not until nine minutes and eleven seconds of the final quarter had elapsed were they able to dent the goal line. 
At the beginning, the second half appeared to pose a bright outlook for the boys from South Bend. Quarterback George Haffner unleashed a long pass to speedy Sefcik. The latter went out of bounds on the Tar Heel 25-yard sti-ipe, the play covering 52 yards. The ball was only 12 yards away from the goal line when adversity cropped up once more. Beck made his second steal of a Notre Dame pass at this point. 
Another Irish threat was soon mounted, but it was stifled on Carolina's seven-yard line because of a fumble. After a North Carolina fleld goal attempt failed on the ensuing drive, the Irish rode Haffner's arm down to the enemy 34. Les Traver Avas on the business end of all three of Haffner's passes. But the attack lost its power on the 34. 
Max Burnell soon was atop a Farris fumble on the home team's 25. This drive finally bore fruit when Scarpitto swept over from the two and Joe Perkowski added the point. 
An apparent Notre Dame fumble recovery on the kickoff was nullified by the referee's decision that the whistle had ended the play before the fumble. Farris then ran out the clock and assured his team of its first victoiy over Notre Dame in eleven tries. 
For North Carolina, Fax'ris was the individual star with a 47-yard touchdown toss, a total of 38 yards rushing and an average of 36.2 yards on nine punts. End John Schroeder also stood out for the winners. He was instrumental in the containment of Scarpitto's wide sweeps. Hawkins, Greenday and Beck were other top performers for the victors. The Notre Dame line of Traver, Williams, Pottios, Hoerster, Roy, Burke, Caroilo, Buoniconti and Burnell performed well on defense, but the offense was unable to solve the North Cai-o­lina defensive riddle until it was too late. 
Once again today the Irish experienced the same trouble they have been having all season long. The Notre Darners moved the ball well from 20 to 20 but seem to falter from there on. —Bob Chiappinelli 
VI3 -3 

Halfback Tom Liggio starts around left end as fullback Mike Lind leads interference. Halfback Ed Rutkowski is veering right ' 
The Scholastic 

Nofre Dame 0 
Michigan Stafe .... 21 
EFFORT 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 15, 1960—A determined Irish eleven, inspired by the return of the 1929-30 national championship teams, took the field this beautiful afternoon against the Spai*­tans of Michigan State. MSU was eager for a victory because it would mean five consecutive wins over Notre Dame, and no 
"opponent in the 72-year football history of Notre Dame had accomplished such a feat. The Irish fought stubbornly for the full 60 minutes, but after an evenly matched contest for the first 23 minutes, a Norb Rascher pass was suddenly deflected into the hands of guard Ike Grimsley and the surprised Spai-­tan ran the ball over from the 35. That bit of good fortune was all that was needed as the Spartans contained the Irish for the rest of the afternoon and rumbled on to a 21-0 victory. 
The 59,133 fans who witnessed the game at Noti-e Dame Stadium sensed the determined spirit of the Irish as this young squad reacted instantaneously to the Spartan counter play ^offense. On several occasions during the first quax-ter, Ed ^ Burke, Mo Pottios and Nick Buoniconti refused to be tricked as they analyzed the MSU offense and stopped the hard run­
Hard-running Spartan Herb Adderly tries to wiggle free of the arms of Notre Dame's Joe Perkowski and Norb Roy. 
ning Spartan backs. Then Coach Kuharich sent in sophomore quarterback Norb Rascher who proved he could move the Ii'ish. \ And when his team was held on the ground this confident # first-year man stepped back and demonstrated his fine passing 
ability. 
Thus play continued with portents of an Irish upset. Late in the first quarter, lead by George Sefcik and Frank Minik, the Irish drove on 14 consecutive plays to MSU's 32-yard line. On fourth do\vn, fullback Joe Perkowski stepped back to try a field goal. The ball Avas kicked high and straight, but fell to the turf five-yards short of the uprights. The Spartans again found the Notre Dame defense unpenetrant, and were forced to punt. Then came Rascher's tipped pass intended for Sefcik and the Spai-tan touchdown. 
Irish hearts in the stands were a bit saddened as Art 
^ Brandstatter added the extra point. However this reversal only made the Irish players more desirous for revenge. They took the kickoff and began a march which was bolstered by the hard running of senior fullback Dan Griffith. But an Irish fumble gave the ball to State on the 42. 
A staunch defense forced MSU to go to the air, but the big sophomore tackle Burke crashed through the line and spilled quarterback Tom Wilson for a 13-yard loss. On the next play the hard charging Irish stopped Wilson for a short gain. The following play was a beautifully executed screen pass which , allowed the charging Irish linemen to close in on Wilson again. Wilson quickly flipped the ball over the gold helmets of the 
'^ December 2, 1960 
oni-ushing tackles into the hands of halfback Don Stewart. 
Stewart took advantage of fine blocking to go 52 yards for 
another score. Brandstatter's kick made it 14-0. 
The Irish now needed to score before the half ended, and 
suddenly it seemed possible as Sefcik intercepted a Wilson pass 
intended foir Ernie Clark. The crafty junior raced back 17 
yards to the MSU 28. Rascher went to the air on second down, 
but the Irish were again denied when defensive halfback Bob 
Suci intercepted to end the threat. So the second quarter 
closed; a quarter which has proven thus far this season to be 
the worst one for Notre Dame. 
During the half time respite, the Notre Dame students 
formed a double line from the goal post to the bench to show 
their support for the great fight the team was showing. And 
although the score read 14-0, not a ND fan in the crowd was 
about to admit defeat. 
The second half began with more enthusiasm than did the 
first. The Spartans were again stopped, and ND went to work 
on the ground. After grinding out a first down on hard run-
Perkowski and friend lead interference for Irish sophomore Chuck O'Hara as MSU defenders Sanders and Szwast move in. 
ning, the Irish switched to an aerial game with Rascher throw­ing. Rascher's passes were on the mark, but in several key situ­ations they were hobbled, and along with a hard tackle by a State defender, dropped. 
In the fourth period, an Irish march sputtered on the Spar­tans 30. On the first play Herb Adderly went for 27 yards, then Ron Hatcher for 4, and Hatcher again for 14. After Carl Charon made 3, Wilson went back to.pass. He had to move to the left as the ND line closed in and his receivers remained covered. He tossed quickly to Adderly who had suddenly cut in front of Clay Schulz. Adderly took the pass and, with a sudden twist loosened himself from the defender's grasp, and lunged into the end zone. This ended the scoring, since in the closing minutes, the Irish just could not marshal a sustained drive or spring any of its fleet backs. 
Rascher turned in the best quarterbacking. job of the young season with some fine passing although the statistics showed only four completions in 14 attempts for 35 yards. 
However*, statistics do not tell the whole stoiy as a glance at the game's over-all totals will attest. The Irish again outgained their rival on the ground, but were not able to penetrate beyond the MSU 25-yard line. The problem at this point centered on the unexplainable ineptitude of the Iiish on third down. The answer was not in the performance of any one player, but seemed to be hidden in the oft-spoken phrase "team effort." The offense seemed to sputter not for lack of desire, but for lack of co-ordination when needed. —Tom Braimigan 
17 

long and frequent practices for the first Additional Help. An addition to this Irish Cheerieoders few weeks each fall. During these ses­year's group has been the Irish lepre­sions, they practice each of the older chaun. The leprechaun this past season 
Notre Dame, boasting the most spir­stunts while also introducing any new was Terry Crawford, a sophomore in ited student body in the United States, ideas which might come to mind. The Arts and Letters. Dressed in green, the is especially vocal for its football team practice sessions become less frequent small Crawford would walk back and on Saturday afternoons in the Stadium. 
as the season progi-esses and, during forth in front of the cheerleading group Seldom recognized are the hard working basketball season, the cheerleaders are with the Irish terrier, Mike. 
leaders of this group, the Irish cheer­so well prepai-ed that only one session In 1960, with the presence of Craw­leaders. These men lead the student a week is held. ford at the games, the cheerleaders were body in their vocal outbursts. 
The method of selecting cheerleaders 
able to present many new stunts and ' The cheerleaders are also of great 
is highly competitive. Each spring, 
cheers. Of course many of the older service at the Friday night rallies. Here, 
freshmen aspirants are invited to try 
while organized cheering is almost im­cheers such as "Irish, spell it out" and 
out for the group. The six cheerleaders 
possible, the cheerleaders make sure that "Echo yell" retained their popularity. 
then pick two of these first year men to 
each speaker is well received and lead Also, the cheerleaders were instru­
replace the two departing seniors. At 
the cheering for him if there is any. 
this time also, the head cheerleader for mental in helping to make the card stunt There are six cheerleaders and the the following year is chosen. section such a success this past season. 
group is composed of two sophomores, two juniors and two seniors. The leader of 1960's fine representatives is the head cheerleader. Skip Fiore, a senior Arts and Letters student from Dewitt, llfdiit -sparkling: rfihi^shiii^t ? ^ 
N.Y. The other senior representative is John Bemat, a Commerce student hail­;Call!Mr:ColKe!:::::::: ing from Forest Hills, N.Y. 
The junior cheerleaders are Teriy Mc-Glinn and Joe Zeller. McGlinn, from Reading, Pa., is in the Arts and Letters College while Zeller is a Commerce stu­dent from Gallon, O. 
The two men selected as cheerleaders last spring are sophomores in the Com­merce school. Duke McMahon, from Van Nuys, Cal., and Bob Maturi of Chis­holm, Minn, are the two new additions 
toma iMOB AUiHomr oriHC COCH-COIA coitnwy n 
representing the second-year group. COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND, INC. frequent practice. In preparing for the football season, the cheerleaders have 
The Huddle 
Best Wishes to 1960 Notre Dame Football Squad 
• • , • STOP at the HUDDLE • • • • © 
for that little snack between classes 
REMORSE 
Evanston, 111., Oct. 22, 1960—The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame came to Northwestern this brisk Saturday afternoon with high hopes of upsetting the Wildcats. Before the end of the afternoon, the Irish had almost succeeded in their purpose, in the end giving quite a scare to the Northwestern eleven which played out the clock for a 7-6 victory. 
Had it not been for a completely impotent offense, the Irish might have easily won their second game of the year. During the first half of the game, the Notre Dame eleven could not pick up one first down. The Wildcats gained a total of 142 yards in the first half, while the Irish managed to gain a meager 23 yards. 
During this first half, Northwestern scored its first and 
only touchdown of the game. Daryle Lamonica had punted the ball from his own 25 to the Noi'thwestem 41. On the punt return Al Kimbrough proceeded to carry the ball back 18 ' yards to the Irish 41-yard line. Then, in ten quick plays, the Wildcats scored with Kimbrough carrying the ball over from the three-yard line. Mike Stock, the burly fullback, then kicked what was later detei-mined as the all-important extra point, 
and the score was 7-0. 
For the remaining seventeen minutes of the first half, the two teams were held virtually to a standoff due to a loss of the ball by fumbles on both sides. Northwestern did manage to get down to the Notre Dame 15-yard line where Stock's field goal attempt was wide. 
; As Northwestern had completely dominated the play in the first half, the Irish were determined to come out and make a better showing during the second half of the game. And this they did. 
Although Notre Dame did not control the second half of play as the Wildcats had done in the first half, the Irish played on even terms with Northwestern. The Irish were able to con­tain the passing arm of Northwestem's quarterback Dick Thornton, and in turn, they began to muster a passing attack of their own. With the passing of George Haffner and the running of Angelo Dabiero, the Irish appeared more adept at moving the ball. If it had not been for 55 yards of penalties in the second half, the Irish definitely would have had more oppor­tunities and possibly might have won the game. Notre Dame was able to score its only touchdown of the game in this half. 
Clay Schulz, a defensive stalwart for the Irish all after­noon, pounced on a Northwestern fumble minutes after the second half had opened. The Irish then commenced a 52­yard drive for a touchdown. Key factors in this drive were 
Wfldcat fuUback Mike Stock is stopped cold at the line of scrim­mage by an Irish charge led by Jim Sherlock and Norb Roy. 
December 2, 1960 
H 
Nofre Dame ...••• 6 Norffcwesfern 7 
quarterback Haffner's passes to sophomore end Jim Sherlock, 
The last pass to Sherlock was for a touchdown and it connected 
from the Northwestern 25-yard line. Then the decisive point in 
the game came when Joe Perkowski missed the attempted point 
try. 
The score still remained, 7-6, and for a long iteriod there­
after, neither team was able to penetrate deeply into one-
another's territory. Two 15-yard penalties seriously hampered 
Notre Dame's chances of keeping up a sustained drivew As fhe 
final gun sounded, the Wildcats were once again trying to keep 
possession of the ball in order to preserve their lead. They were 
successful in doing this, and at the end of the game, it was they 
who placed in the victory column. 
Perhaps the main reason for the low score in this game was 
the excellent defensive play on the part of both teams, b addi-
ButMiiconti, DePola, Pictrzak and Williams watch qftaitsxbaA NaA 
Rascher break into the <^ien as NOTthwestem's RUB Asah 
tion, the Irish were not able to mount a snccessfol offoiae that 
could be coupled with their fine defensive work. 
For the Wildcats of Northwestern, Didc Thornton was fhe big gun, as he ran for 82 yards and also completed five of twelve passes for 57 yards. Kimbrough gained 47 yards, and Benz got 35 yards as the Wildcats demonstrated why they are feared for their powerful running halfbacks. Northwestem's fine fullback. Stock, battered for 62 yards to complete the &ie running quartet. 
The only Notre Dame runners who were able to dent Nortli­westem's powerful line were Dabiero and Bill Henn^^ian, who gained 22 and 19 yards, respectively. Haffner, however, ^ come into his own as a fine quarterback in this game. He did a superb job of directing the team, and he completed four passes for 51 yards. 
Coach Ara Parseghian, in an after-game interview, fdt that his team had won the game because of an always con­sistent defense and a much improved offense. He praiaed Ime!* backer Larry Onesti for his fine defensive work, even UMXI ^ the hard-hitting center had been injured before the game. , . . 
Coach Joe Kuhaiich blamed the loss on his sqoad's ladc of offensive power in the first half. The Irish coach commended Thornton, Kimbrough, and Stock for their running alnlity, tsnA,-, he also lowered praise on his two sophomore ends, BoidMS and Sherlock. As usual, Nick Bnoniconti and Myron Fottiqs;, played fine baU in the line for the Irish. --.' _ 
Had the Notre Dame eleven started its offense. xoDiniE-^ar little earlier in the game, then the final outcome mif^t Jn m t shown the Irish ahead on the scoreboard. -= -----­
—David Kilrdjr:,; 
,--/'--i-.­
tm 
•^i 

BELLINO 
Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 29, 1960—Navy's Middies scored 
twice on runs by their All-America candidate Joe Bellino to 
edge Notre Dame's desperately battling Irish, 14-7, on this 
dai-k afternoon in the Friendly City. 
After returning the opening kickoff fi'om Navy's nine to 
the 19, Bellino swept right end on the first play from scrim­
mage for a 43-yard gain to Notre Dame's 38. After a one-yard 
gain through the middle of the line by Joe Matalavage, Navy's 
captain and fullback, Bellino raced for another 18 on a power 
slice over the left side. 
Matalavage then hit for seven yards to the 12. On the next 
play, Bellino took advantage of a crushing block by John Hew­
itt to sprint 12 yards around right end for the score. End Greg 
Mather's convei-sion was good, and the Middies led 7-0 with 
only 3:03 of the first period gone. 
Although Navy recovered an Irish fumble on the Noti'e 
Dame 38, they were unable to take advantage of it, losing pos­
session to the Irish. 
Late in the first quarter, the Irish were able to mount their 
first drive of the game. The Green took possession of the ball on 
Kick-blocking expert Nick DePola begins bis leap to block Middie field goal attempt. Captain Myron Pottios comes in from the side. 
their own 28 and drove downfield to the Navy nine. But Navy linebacker Eon McKeown stopped the Notre Dame drive when he threw quarterback George Haifner for an eight-yard loss from the five to the 13, and the Middies took over on their own eleven early in the second period. 
Three plays latei-, Bellino fumbled on a hand-off from quar­terback Hal Spooner, and Mike Lind recovered the ball on the Navy 20. After Haffner had thro^vn to Jim Sherlock for 14 yards and a first down on the Navy three, Angelo Dabiero took a hand-off from Haffner and skirted his own left end for the score. Joe Perkowski converted, and the score was tied, 7-7. 
The second quarter featured another drive by the Irish. Paced by the slashing running of Dabiero and George Sefcik, Notre Dame moved the ball from their own 20 to the Middies' 
22. A holding penalty on the Irish at this point moved the ball back to the 37 and Notre Dame was forced to throw. After two incompletions, Haffner fired one into the end zone intended for Sherlock. Bellino was covering Sherlock and both misssed the ball, but offensive interference was called against Notre Dame. Since the interference infraction had taken place in the end zone. Navy was offered the option of offensive possession on the 20 via a touchback, and took it. 
Notre Dame continued to bang away at the Navy defense. After taking the second half kickoff, the Irish drove as far as the Navy five with the biggest gain coming on a 46-yard pass from Haffner to Dabiero. After the Middies pushed the Irish back to the nine, Perkowski attempted a field goal, which was unsuccessfuL 
Nofre Dame 7 Navy 14 
After another downfield march, the Irish found themselves 
on the Navy 31 in a f ourth-and-one situation. They again tried 
for the field goal with Perkowski kicking into the wind, but 
the boot was wide. 
With a 35-yard pass from quarterback Harry Dietz to end 
Fi-ank Dattilo the key play. Navy broke loose to Notre Dame's 
17. Failing to gain, they also attempted a field goal which was blocked by sophomore guard Nick DePola. 
In the next series of plays. Navy's Al Hughes picked off a 
Haffner aerial on the Middies' 36. From this point, with 
Bellino and Matalavage alternating as ballcarriers. Navy 
slugged its way to Notre Dame's 21. Dietz then threw to end 
Jim Luper for a first down on the three. Bellino smashed up 
the middle for two-and-a-half yards on the next play from 
scrimmage, and then hui'dled the piled-up lines for the win­
ning six points. Mather converted to make the final score 14-7. 
Taking the ensuing kickoff, the Fighting Irish initiated a J drive that carried them all the Avay to the Navy four. With ^ third down and 17 on his own 27, Haffner let fly with a long desperation pass. Going down and over the middle from his flanker spot, Irish halfback Bob Scarpitto got a step ahead of Bellino and, taking the ball on the 20, drove to the 14 before Bellino was able to bring him do\vn from behind. 
Sefcik then slashed through the Navy line for two five-yard gains to the four. When Scarpitto tried a sweep of left end, the Middies' defensive charge, led by Bellino and Mc­Keown, dropped him back on the eleven. Under heavy pi-essure from the clock and the charging Navy line, Haffner attempted a fourth-down pass, but it was knocked down by linebacker Frank Visted, and the Middies had the ball on their own eleven. With but seconds remaining, they merely ran the clock out. 
The Fighting Irish, although losing to a Navy squad fav­ored by two touchdowns, gave a good account of themselves, shomng the best and most consistent football they had played to date. 
While losing the battle of the scoreboard, the Irish won the battle of statistics, giving rise to the theory that they actually outplayed and outfought the mighty Middies on the field. In addition to their one touchdown, Notre Dame on other drives peneti-ated to the Navy 22, 14, and to the five twice. They had 16 first downs to Navy's 13, gained 175 yards rushing to Navy's 168, and outgained the Middies 165 yards to 101 in the air. 
In this thirty-fifth renewal of the longest intersectional rivalry in college football, played in Philadelphia Stadium before 63,000 fans. Navy won for only the seventh time. The Irish have won 27 times, while one of the games was dead­locked. —Tei-ry Wolkerstorfer 
Scadnck Angelo Dabiero sweeps left end for the Irish touchdown as Ail-American Joe Bdlino tackles nothing but air. j^ ' 
Nofre Dame ...... 13 

MISTAKES 
Piffsburgfc 20 

o 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 5, 1960—On this cold and cloudy day in South Bend, a rugged visiting Pittsburgh Panther eleven rolled up a 20-0 lead early and hung on long enough to cop a 20-13 victory over a fighting Notre Dame team. A new record was established in the wind-swept confines of the Sta­dium today; Notre Dame lost their sixth straight game much to the disappointment of the partisan crowd. Never in the lead, the Irish kept battling back and whittled the Pittsburgh margin down to one touchdown before the clock ran out. 
After the opening kickoff, the charging Panther line threw the Kuharichmen for two losses and quarterback Daryle La­monica was forced to punt. Pittsburgh began their series of downs on their 42. On the second play from scrimmage, quai'­terback Ed Sharockman arched a long pass into the hands of All-American Mike Ditka at the Notre Dame 30. Ditka, carry­ing Angelo Dabiero on his back for most of his running jour­ney, was finally pushed out on the eight. Jim Cuimingham finally pushed over for the score from the one-foot line after the Irish had held for three downs. Fred Cox converted to make the score 7-0. 
Notre Dame's offense was hampered throughout the first half both by penalties and the inability to gain through the air. While Coach Joe Kuharich's squad was being penalized 55 yards, quarterback George Haffner couldn't get it back via the airways. Haffner, completing only one pass in the first half, re­sorted to a ground attack with no more success. Dabiero was the only Green back who managed to pick up yardage and the Irish went into the dressing room at the half with only 50 yards to their credit. 
The second half saw both teams move their offense into high gear. In the first minute of play Panther halfback Cox inter­cepted a Haffner pass intended for Les Traver and bounded down to the ND 2. On the next play Cox scampered around left end and scored unmolested. Notre Dame Captain Myron Pottios crashed through the Pitt line to block Cox' attempted conversion and the Panthers had a 18-0 lead. 
After the Irish twice failed to retain possession of the ball the Panthers took over and steadily moved the ball on the gi-ound for 73 yards and their third touchdown. Cox and Cun­ningham swept the ends for gains of eleven, 24, and 18 yards. Left halfback Reinhold skirted around the right end for the score. Cox' placement was good and the Panthers led 20-0. 
Undismayed by Pittsburgh's 20-point advantage, the Irish started to move. Sophomore Daryle Lamonica took over the quarterback spot and Sophomore Joe Maxwell came in at fullback. Maxwell cracked for 8 and Dabiero got the first down with a four-yard run. Lamonica passed to Traver who was in­
stantly dumped on the Pitt 37. Notre Dame continued to ad­
vance towards the Panther goal line with short runs by Dabiero 
and Maxwell and the aid of a 12-yard Lamonica pass. The 
drive was capped with a touchdown as Dabiero bolted arotmd 
left end for a score with eleven seconds left in the third quar­
ter. Henneghan kicked the ball through the uprights to make 
the score 20-7. 

Both teams traded the ball back and forth tmtil Notre Dame 
took over with five minutes left in the game. Pressed for time, 
the Irish took to the air. Haffner passed with authority as Max 
Bui-nell gathered in a Haffner aerial for 16 yards and a first 
down. Now fighting against the clock, Traver sped toward the 
sideline and grabbed a pass for another 16 yards before Cox 
pushed him out of bounds. Then it was Scarpitto down the side­
lines and Haffner hit him for 15. The tension moimting with 
every movement of the clock, Haffner threw a strike to Bumell 
in the end zone and Notre Dame had their second touchdown. 
Henneghan's boot was wide of the mark and the score stood at 
20-13. 

With just over a minute to play Notre Dame took control of the ball again. Desperate for time, the Irish with Haffner at the helm, passed three times and failed to complete one. On fourth down a pass completed for first down yardage was called back. The next spiral was speared out of the air by a Pittsburgh defenseman as the clock i*an out. 
Today's game was a battle between a veteran Panther unit and a still young Irish squad. Instnimental in the Pittsburgh victoi-y was the triple "C" backfield of halfbacks Cox, Bob Clemens and fullback Cunningham. It was this same backfield that defeated Notre Dame in a muddy battle last year in Pitts­burgh. The visitor's tall end, Ditka, came through with his usually fine performance as he snatched a 59-yard pass to set up the Panther's first touchdown. Ditka was a terror on de­fense as he was constantly in on Haffner, rushing his passes, while he tackled the Irish runners with devastating authority. 
Today's game proved that the Notre Dame team is still suffering from its inexperience. And yet, it is gaining maturity —the hard way. After the game. Coach Kirharich stated that he was impressed with Dabiero's running and his all-around performance. Also outstanding for the Fighting Irish were center John Linehan, who made 20 tackles, and Joe Maxwell, playing his first game at fullback. 
Yes, the Notre Dame team was a unit lacking maturity, hut never spirit. This Notre Dame team never quit battling, for­getting the sad fact that it was losing its sixth consecutive game. The Irish played 60 minutes of courageous football even in defeat. —David Williams 
Pittsburgh halfback Fred Cox doesn't know what to do as Irish de­Angelo Dabiero stru^Ies to break away bom Panther fenders Les Traver, Dennis Murphy and John Linehan have ideas. Ron Ddfine and Larry VignaH follow op with the tadde. 
December 2, 1960 
THE UNITED SPIRIT OF THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY 
The spirit of the student body here at Notre Dame has not been confined to the pep rally alone. This year, the Irish student body began the spirited practice of forming a tunnel for the ballplayers to run through upon returning  to the field after each halftime intermission. 
Shake Down the Thunder 
Each Friday evening- preceding a home football game the students assemble in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for the pur­pose of inciting their favorites, the foot­ball team, to great accomplishments. As a further ingredient, the Irish band marches the length and breadth of the campus in search of Irish supporters to add more life to the lively gathering. 
It is usually about 7:30 C.S.T. when the formal opening of the assemblage is called to order. A group of enthusiastic blue and gold clad young men, the cheer­leaders, ask the assembled to test their vocal cords in an orderly manner with organized cheering. This procedure is followed for several minutes and thus the stage is set for the enti-ance of an important gi'oup. 
The group is none other than the Irish footballers. They file in led by their appointed leader, the team captain. Vol­ley after volley of cheers rise from the assemblage. To say that pandemonium is the reigning figure could be as great an understatement as the decree issued once upon an early fall night when an interrogated football coach proclaimed that his playei-s would be lucky to ac­cumulate one solitary first down in the coming campaign and then sat back while his squad scurried through an un­defeated year. 
The pandemonium subsides just enough, and the master of ceremonies takes over the rostrum. He makes a few preliminary remarks which instill greater enthu^asm in the assemblage. After his brief introductory performance the pa­rade of speakers is on in full force. The usual procedure calls for at least two guest orators, one of whom is usually a member of the team, the other being an older type who may have ibeen a team member in his earlier days but who is now a member of that select fraternity, the alumni. 
While these orators endeavor to make their point, the assembled ND students keep up a steady stream of cheerin^r and often the comments of the speaker are interspersed with the raucous yells and cheers of their audience. 
However, all good things must end and this holds time for the pep rally. In time the assemblage grows weary which is only a human reaction and the noise and din decrease. The rally, which was inaugurated with the most famous of all campus songs, the Notre Dame Victory March, now closes with the same tune. The students then seek other means of diversion, whether it be back to the halls to study or maybe a dance in the student center. Another pep rally has come and gone, and takes its place in history with other such gatherings. 
But this has been not an ordinary pep rally; this epic meeting has been a Notre Dame pep rally. The University of Notre Dame has an abundance of a quality known as spirit, an intangible, abstract something' which is not seen but which any and all who have ever attended such a rally can attest to, a prideful spirit which seems to be omnipresent. This is representative of the spirit at Notre Dame. —^Bill Cary 
PariLer-WiBterrowi 
Inc. 
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115V2-117V2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318 
r 
•» 
•« \ 
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Per­sonnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to-wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance. 
Placing your order early means better service. 
Parker-ffigfennwi 
Inc. 
TAILORS-aOTHIERS 
115%-117y2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318 
#' 
The Scholastic 

of the Notre Dame Monogram Club 
Behind the Scenes .. . 
three years ago. 
LEONARD KAHLR 

Len Kahler is Notre Dame's assistant ticket manager. Formerly connected with the dining halls here, Len has 
Football: Its Business Aspects 
Father Joyce ''Moose" Krause Herb Jones 
^ Every year at Notx-e Dame, the foot-hall program goes on and it is only the players and coaches who reap the cheers. Yet, football is a business and like any financial consideration, it con­sumes a great deal of both time and work. 
Notre Dame has men who handle this business of football. Seldom, if ever, are their names heard around the 
?.campus in connection with sports. These 
^businessmen ai-e the "brains behind the scenes," the men who see that the Notre Dame football and athletic program functions in a smooth manner. Certainly, they deserve recognition. 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.C. 
Father Joyce is now in his eighth year as Notre Dame's executive vice ,\ president. As Chairman of the Faculty 
•^ Board in Control of Athletics, Father 
W Joyce has been instrumental in the rise of the athletic program here at Notre Dame. He is also chairman of the Uni­versity Building Committee and has been an American delegate to the North Atlantic Congress in London. In his supei-vision of the athletic pro­gram, Father Joyce has never allowed athletics to interfere with the high aca­
,» ^demic standards of the University. 
l^"*Father Joyce believes a top-flight aca­demic and athletic program do not have to conflict with each other. He has proven to all concerned that united ef­fort is possible with the successful pro­gram that exists here at Notre Dame. 
EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE 
Ed "Moose" Krause has served as athletic director since 1949 when he took over the post vacated by Frank Leahy after serving as his assistant for one 
^ year. Krause was one of the all-time great athletes in Notre Dame history, copping AU-American honors in both football and basketball. Under Krause's guidance, the last twelve years have been highly successful ones for Notre Dame sports. Krause annually arranges one of the most rugged schedules in the country for the Irish gpridders. He has received the Sports Illustrated Silver Anniversary Award, an award annu­ball players who, in the last 25 years, have become leaders in the occupation in which they have entered. 
Krause also is a leader in civic groups, and has a weekly sports show heard in the South Bend area. 
HERBERT E. JONES 
Herb Jones has been Notre Dame's business manager of athletics since 1940. Jones includes among his duties the supervision of the Notre Dame Sta­dium on football Saturdays, the han­dling of athletic accounts and arrang­ing for away athletic events. 
Jones is one of the unsung heroes who does the job well but is not in the public limelight at Notre Dame. His efforts were rewarded, however, when he was presented with a rare honorary mem­bership in the Notre Dame Monogram Club three years ago. Jones has been connected with the University in some capacity since he was graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1927. 
ROBERT M. CAHILL 
Bob Cahill, Notre Dame's ticket man­ager, has never seen a complete Irish home game. In fulfilling the details of his job and trying to make seats avail­able for everyone, Cahill is kept busy until the final whistle of the very last game. 
Cahill's work continues after the foot­ball season with basketball games, the Bengal Bouts and other events keeping his ticket ofiice busy. 
Ticket manager since 1941, Cahill has handled more than ten million tickets since that time. Along with Jones, Cahill was made an honorary member 
toiled in the ticket office for sevm years. 
His specific duty in this million dollar 
business concerns the filling of ticket 
orders. 
Applications for tickets come in, are reviewed, and then Kahler has charge of assigning and mailing the tickets to the applicants. 
GENE PASZKIET 

Gene Paszkiet has been the Notre Dame trainer for eight, years and his public appearances on football Sator­days have been limited to carrying re­freshments to the team during time outs. His purpose in doing the above is not strictly confined to satisfying Irish gladiator thirst however, for Gene checks on every player's physical well­being during the rest period. 
These autumnal advents into foot­ball's public eye belie the importance and responsibility of Paszkiet's job though, for Gene heads a collection of a little-known and little^ppreciated groap composed of Jim O'Donnel, Vic Gra­bowski, Jim Crotty, Walt Kiebienack, and Charles Monahan, who are bis as­sistants in the Notre Dame training room. 
The training job demands explicit knowledge in a variety of fields, frmn anatomy to physical therapy. Of late these skills have been taxed to the foll-est, as injuries have been abundant, particularly of the knee variety. Ciene has taken constructive measures to remedy the knee situation. A plan was put into effect last January, requirmir the players to report to the traininfr room and lift weights imposed on their legs. The .players had to be able to lift 50 poimds of weight ten times, within a period of 40 seconds. This feat was to be accomplished before spring prac­tice began. Paszkiet thinks this plan, together with Coach Kuharich's idea of special exercises, wrestling, and ininning over uneven surfaces could be an answer to this aggravating problem, or at least a partial answer. 
The above scheme did not indude knees already operated on. These cases Gene began to work with as soon as they were fully recovered fnnn their surgery. He is credited with rebalnli­tating Pottios, Sefcik and Lind, laaang others. 
. ally given to the 25 former college foot­BobCahiU Len Kaldra GoKPteUcC 
December 2, 1960 
Fighting Irish 
SS^?l??fe*iS^£ 
Fullback Joe Perkowskj looks toward the Iowa goal line as Hawkeycs Lloyd Humphreys and Bill Perkins have other ideas. Dabiero has just laid a good block. 
George Scfcik gathers in a pass and peers around for any would-be tacklers but there Bob Scarpitto tries to break away from his Iowa tackier with a dance step as Ed Rutkowski are none to be seen. 
hurries up. End Max Burnell leaps to his teammate's aid. 
a 

Fullback Mike Lind provides interference as Angelo Dabiero tries Lind pushes Jerry Maurcn aside while rushing to aid teammates to evade the charging Iowa tackier on a left end sweep. in stopping Iowa's Larry Ferguson. 
of 1960 in Action 
Jsf ,•' -^ 

1^. 
;^!sii 

Sophomore halfback Leo Caito is all alone as he starts back up the field with a punt Scarpitto finds plent>- of running room as he dashes around Notre Dame's end. Purdue's return in an early game. Manzie Winters tries to evade Mike Lind's blocking ideas. 
t) 
Tiny Frank Minik steps into high gear with the help of a fine block by Nick Buoniconti. Iowa's Keith Kindemian looks up hopelessly from the ground after a devastating body block by Bob Pietrzak. 
;-->%.-' 

$} 
Lind crashes into the California line for several yards. John Powers and Mike George HafFner gets the Irish offense rolling as he Magnotta aid Lind with fine blocks. Scarpitto carries out his fake. prepares to hand off to either Mike Lind or Bob Scarpitto for a line smash. 
D 
December 2, 1960 
1960 Notre Dame Fighting Irisli 
FIRST ROW—(left to right): Dan Luecke, Bob Koreck, Bob Scarpitto, Bill (Red) Mack, Capt. Myron Pottios, Bob Pietrzak, Ray Ratkowski, Frank Gargiulo, Paul Nissi. SECOND ROW—(left to right): Norb Roy, Tonfi Hecomovich, Max Burnell, George Haffner, Tom Monahan, John Linehan, Jack Castin, Bill Henneghan, Bill Clark, George Sefcik, Angelo Dabiero, George Williams, Les Trover. THIRD ROW—(left to right): Jim Mikacich, Charles Augustine, Bill Clements, Clay Schuiz, Tom Liggio, Gene Viola, Nick Buoniconti, Bob Bill, Gerry Gray, Joe Carollo, Joe Perkowski, Jack Cullen, Roger Wilke, John Powers. FOURTH ROW—(left to right): Bob Lehmann, Joe Maxwell, Nick DePola, Leo Seller, Dan Kolasinski, Mike Magnotta, Frank Grau, Bill Ford, Jim Loula, Dick Naab, Bill Snyder, Mike Lind, Ed Burke, Brian Boulac. FIFTH ROW—(left to right): Kieran Kealy (Associate Manager), John Slafkosky, Chuck O'Hara, Bill Ahem, Steve Kolski, Ed Hoerster, Dennis Murphy, Jim Sherlock, Daryle Lamonica, Bill Kutzavitch, Norb Rascher, Ed Rutkowski, Leo Caito, Greg Wood, Marshall Reilly, Frank Minik, Bob McCutchan (Head Manager), Joe Kelly (Associate Manager). 
A.. : 
College Sports Editors* All-American Team (or 1960 
TOM BROWN JOE BELUNO 'Lineman of the Year" "Back of the Year' 
fl't;;^ 
MURRAY WARMATH 
mmMWi "Coach of the Year" 
Mike Di+ka, end Pittsburgh Fred Mautino, end Syracuse Robert Lilly, tackle Texas Christian Walter Suggs, tackle Mississippi State Tom Brown, guard Minnesota Joe Romig, guard Colorado 
E. J. Holub, center Texas Tech Wilburn Hollis, quarterback Iowa Joe Bellino, halfback Navy Ernie Davis, halfback Syracuse Bob Ferguson, fullback Ohio State Murray Warmath, coach Minnesota 
December 2, 1960 
Brown and Bellino Top All-American Selection 
by JAY KILROY 
The Football Review is pleased to an- football." He is what coaches and play- Back of the Year. When selections for 
nounce its annual College Sports Edi- ers term a "contact" man, a man who Back of the Year were tabulated, the 
tors' All-American football team for will not take a defeat sitting down. And victor had moi*e than ten times as many 
1960. The Sports Editors' All-American Murray Warmath proved this in 1960; votes as his nearest competitor. And this 
was begun by SCHOLASTIC sports editor his team is going to the Rose Bowl and 1960 Back of the Year is none other ­
John Gla\'in in 1956 and has become a he is the college sports editor's choice than Navy's great halfback, Joe Bellino. 
regular feature of the Football Review as Coach of the Year. In leading the Middies to a highly 
since then. This is the fifth such team » ». v T^-, „ u „^ successful 9-1 season, Bellino set more 
selected Lineman of the Year. It would ap-^ records than anv nlaver in the 
seiectea. , , ^ . „ pear presumptuous to state flatly that ^^ ^ recoids than any piayei m the 
The three teams selected m our poll ^^^^ „^^^ j ^ ^^^ outstanding lineman in Academys history. In 1960 alone, Bel-represent the opmions of sports editors ^j^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ tj^j^ j ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ t^^ Imo scored an astounding 110 points throughout the country. Naturally some .^^ ^^^^,^ ^.^ Selected by a ma-Y^"}^. S^^"^"| ?,^^ ^''tV?' fu ^t of the ballots that we received were -^^.^ ^^ ^j^^ ^^U^t^ f^^ ^^-^ ^^^ 1 to this was Bellino s ability m the other biased representing only a certain re- throughout the 1960 campaign, guard l^^^^^ of football. As a quick-kickei^ gion of the country. But since the re- ^om Brown of Minnesota truly earned ^^T'l^^ ^ 47 yards a punt; as a punt ception was cross-sectional and so gi-eat ^he title as the 1960 Lineman of the f"^ kickoff returner, he averaged bet-, in number, we feel that this AU-Ameri- year " " yards on each runback. can team is a comprehensive and accu-' Certainly, he merits the frequent ae­rate group of stars. claim as "the finest all-around halfback 
In addition to picking the top eleven SECOND TEAM in the land." positions for the first team, the sports Dan LaRose, le Iowa -A. 5-9, 187-pound phenomenon, Bel-editors were asked to pick a Coach of K^^ pj^g II Auburn lino's gi-eatness can be attributed to his the Year, Back of the Year and Line- p^^ Q ' | Georaia elusiveness and speed. Not an excep­man of the Year. ../ u • 1 i tionally fast starter, the Middle star be­
^°y"^"°;''"' ^ Arkansas ^^^^^ ^ break-away threat when he 
Coach of the Year. I960 was a ^1 Vanderbush, rg ....Army reaches the line of scrimmage because year that saw the resurgence of many Mike Pyle, rt Yale of his ability to run laterally with great ^ mediocre football teams into nation-Avide Marlin McKeever, re USC power. powers. Perhaps the most noticeable rise Jake Gibbs, q — Mississippi of any team was that of Minnesota. . Bill Kilmer, Ih UCLA Ends. The first team selections for Last year relegated to the lower echelon Ron Bull, rh Baylor end on this year's All-American squad of the Big Ten with a poor 2-7 record, ^j Qy^j^ fl, Auburn ^^^^ Pittsburgh's Mike Ditka and Fred the Gophers suddenly caught fire in _' /JI™1..1„1..™ Mautino of Syi-acuse. Ditka was un­1960 and finished with an 8-1 record. . „no^ o j -jj, animously selected while Mautino had 
The man most responsible for the ^^'T'\ '^. ^ ,?'^' 243-pound middle ^^. competition from Missouri's Dan Gopher's rise in fortunes can be none g"^^'l^^° '^ *^^"^ ^l ™^"y coaches m LaRose. 
other than Coach Murray Wai-math. ^"^ ^^S Ten as the best lineman they noimd^r frnn, AH 
Warmath is this year's overwhelming ^^^ve ever seen in college ball. Especially Ditka, a b-6, J18-poundei from Ali­
waimath IS tnis yeai s overwneinung i„^pj.essive to all obsei-vers is Brown's QuiPPa, Pa., is one of the most versatile : selection for Coach of the Year honors. impressive TO an ODsei-veis is iirown s , ,
Success was not instantaneous for ^P^^ ^^^ agility for his size. enas evei TO piay m tne i^ast. JNot only 
bucce^ was not insrantaneous loi reallv Brown's first vear as ^^ *^® Panther captain an exceptional 
Warmath at Minnesota. For the first six ^"'s is reaiiy uiown s nist year as receiver but he is also thp best defensive 
years of his mentorship Warmath's ^ recognized star. Last year he was leceivei out ne is aiso tne oest aeiensive Gophers struggled to a r^ord of just ?^ell on his way to fame when a knee ^"^ '" ^""^ ^°T Z\ T. T^•., u 23 victories and 29 defeats injury benched him for three games in ^ nemesis to Notre Dame, Ditka has 
„ , i-u 1- 1, • J • • the middle of the Minnesota schedule. ^e n named to their all-opponent team 
• '^^^« ^ ? "^"^ ""-^ ^' As the key to a strong Gopher for- for three years in a row. Pittsburgh mmg tradition. Before assuming the ^^^.^ ^^jj ^^ ^ | ^ Steeler Coach Buddy Parker, an astute ?^f w .I,T! , f°^ M"»"^°^ , "I the accolades that he deserves F S his J"dge of talent, called him "the best 1954, Wannath had serv^ as assistant j .^^^ Northwestern he was college player in the country for 1960." , r.lo?rSL?S X^v ""'' ^P«^^ Itt^trated's Lineman of the Mautino of Syracuse excels on de-' lX)ionei jJiaiK at Army. ^^^l^ ^j^jj^ ^PI tabbed Brown as the fense. Named to the AP AU-Ameri-
Like the two great teachers under "Midwest Lineman of the Week" on the can last year, Mautino is the primary -whom he learned his football, Warmath basis of his outstanding play in the Iowa reason why the Orangemen rank high in is a perfectionist who "lives and breathes contest. the nation in total defense. Named the 
/-'' *:>-,A^2<r^J:^ .ilislw^l.EiL^  
DIIKA  ULLY  SUGGS  ROMIG  
28  The  Scholastic  

HOLUB 

outstanding defensive lineman in four Syracuse games this season, Mautino was also the top pass receiver and of­
"' fensive blocker. 
The second team selections are La-Eose of Missouri and Marlin McKeever of Southern California. LaEose was the key to Missouri's 1960 success as he led the Tigers with vicious blocking and stellar defensive play. McKeever, for the third consecutive year, was the Trojan pacesetter. 
The third team end selections are Tee ^ Morman, pass-snaring specialist from §^ Duke, and huge Earl Faison of Indiana, a leading pass receiver in the Big Ten. 
Tackles. Tackles on the 1960 Ail-American are Eobert Lilly of Texas Christian and Walter Suggs of Missis­sippi State. Lilly, a unanimous choice, was outstanding in every TCU game. Yet his supreme eifort came in the Texas game when he crushed the Longhorn backs with 17 tackles, recovered two 
\ fumbles, blocked a punt and caused a 
• ' pass interception. A big man at 6-5, 248 pounds, Lilly was Sports Illustrat­ed's Lineman of the Week for his per­formance in the Texas game. 
Suggs had strong competition from Ken Eice of Auburn, Mike Pyle of Yale and Joe Eutgens of Illinois before finally winning a first-team berth. The 240 pound Suggs captained the Maroons to a fine season while copping all-every­
|f^' thing honors in his region. 
The second team selections, Pyle and Eice, were leaders on their respective teams. Pyle was the bulwark in a line that led Yale to an undefeated season. Eice, an exceptional blocker, steadied the powerful Aubum defense. 
Third team tackle Eutgens of Illinois was recently named the first draft choice of Oakland in the American Football League. The other third team tackle is Jeriy Beabout of Purdue. 
€) Guards. Tom Brown's partner at guard on the first team is Joe Eomig of Colorado. Eomig, a 5-10, 199-pounder with a straight-A average in physics, is the middle linebacker in Colorado's 4-3 defense. With great speed and di­agnostic ability, he has been Colorado's offensive and defensive leader through­out the season. Against Oklahoma, Eomig participated in more than 50 per cent of the tackles on Sooner rushing plays. In the Iowa State games, Romig's 
« 
December 2, 1960 
'4 
FERGUSON DAVIS 
saavy enabled him to make 14 initial stops and seven assists. 
Pat Dye of Georgia, a rough 200­pound ball hawk, and steady Al Vanderbush of Army are the second team guards. 
Dye and Vanderbush received close competition at guard from third team men Myron Pottios of Notre Dame and Eichard Price of Mississippi. 
Center. E. J. Holub had no difficulty winning the first team center position. A 6-4, 217-pound competitor, Holub has the distinction of being named AP's Lineman of the Week twice and Sports Illustrated's once. Against Wyoming this yeax-, Holub made 13 tackles and assisted on eight more. And in the Bay­lor game, the "Beast" stopped 15 op­ponents, assisted on eight more tackles, while breaking up a pass and recoveiing a fumble. 
The second team selection at center is Wayne Harris of Arkansas. Greg Lar­son, steady Minnesota competitor, was the third team selection at center. 
Quarterback. Wilbum HoUis of Iowa is this year's quarterback choice. A 6-2, 200-pound highly-regarded athlete, Hol­lis was a principal reason for the Hawk-eyes success in 1960. A fine ballhandler, he was an exceptional faker and kept the opponent's defenses guessing most of the time. Known as a runner, Hollis was also effective with the long pass as he paced the lowans to an 8-1 record. 
The second team quarterback is Jake Gibbs, the man who led his Mississippi team through an undefeated season. Equally proficient as a passer or runner, Gibbs proved his AU-American certifica­tion in the Mississippi State clash with his pin-point passing. 
Quarterback for the third team is Tom Matte, field general of the Ohio State power house. Matte completed more than 50 per cent of his passes while gaining 682 yards mnning. 
Halfback. Bellino's running mate at halfback this year is Emie Davis of Syracuse. Davis, a 6-2, 205-pound junior, was on the sports editors' second team last year. 
Eanked number four nationally in rushing, Davis avei-aged eight yards a carry this year. The fleet Orangeman, combining power with speed, was a 
HOLUS 

magnificent pass receiver. He played "good enough" to earn back of the wedc honors in four of Syracuse's first eig^t games. 
Bill Kilmer of UCLA was a top con­tender for first team. A tailback in the Bruin's single-wing, Kilmer has twice been AP's Back of the Week and twice a member of UPI's Backfield of the Week. Averaging six yards a carry, Kilmer was also an outstanding passer and punter. His 42.4 punting average was one of the highest in the nation. 
Eon Bull of Baylor is the other second team halfback. 
Third team selections at halfback were teammates on the same college eleven, Pervis Atkins and Bob Gaiters of New-Mexico State. 
Fullback. Bob Ferguson, block-bust> ing runner for Ohio State is the top choice at the fullback position. Ferguson was the Big Ten's leading scorer with, 78 points while accumulating 853 yards in mshing. His only competition at the power position came from Ed Djas of Aubum. Dyas set a national record earlier in the year as a field goal kicker, while proving his ability as a crushing-blocker on offense for the Aubum eleven. There was no strong third team candi­date at fullback. 
FRED JMAUTINO 
Pass snaring Orangeman 

calmness and a maximum of trepidation. grid standouts as Mike Lind, Les Traver, Oit tUe^ Jline . . . However, there is good reason for this Nick Buoniconti, Daryle Lamonica, 
Each Thui-sday evening, the campus radio station WSND presents an enter­taining panel discussion known as "On the Line." "On the Line" is a half-hour show which features an interview with sports personalities on the Notre Dame campus. The show is on from 7:30 to 8 p.m. 
The usual procedure is for two Irish athletes to be interviewed by a board of four or five "experts." The starting line­up for the "experts" this year has in­cluded the likes of WSND's own Dick Ciccone, Don Criqui, Ray Trance and Ed Luderan, Bob Schaefer of the Sports Publicity Office, and Jay Kilroy and Bill Gary of the Scholastic sports staff. 
The interrogated athletes sometimes approach the show with a minimum of trepidation since the "experts" ask the usual number of tough questions. It is to the credit of the guest athletes that they handle these parries with a skill and ease that is sometimes very sur­prising. 

The show is divided into two 15-min­ute segments vnth a public service an­nouncement scheduled in between. The initial 15 minutes is usually spent dis­cussing the game of the previous week. After the brief one-minute intermission the chatter turns to the coming opponent, the physical condition of the team, and other pei'tinent subjects. 
The first "On the Line" show of this school year was aired on September 29. The guests on this kickoff performance were Captain Myron Potties and junior tackle Bob Bill. Since then such Irish George Sefcik and Bob Scarpitto were the men of honor. 
The interviews with these football stars bring out the side of a football player that is seldom appreciated. Whether many realize it, football players are more than just rugged athletes who are allowed to utilize their talents only on Saturdays. All who appeared on this half-hour show showed a facility and ease in expressing themselves. Also, all made a forthright attempt to answer the question in a truthful manner. 
With the football season now history, the basketball team will be featured dur­ing the winter months along -with the swimming, fencing and wrestling aggre­gations. In the spring, the "experts" will center their attention on members of the golf, tennis, baseball and track teams. 

Mister... you're going to wear that shave all day! 
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORE­SHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You can shave blade-close, all-day clean, with­out "tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave Lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Old Spice scent. 1.00 no federal tax. 
M U LT O tSI 
AVAILABLE AT 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
The Scholastic 

Nofre Dame 21
DARKNESS 
Miami 28 
Miami, Fla., Nov. 12,1960—Miami's Hurricanes traveled 80 yards for a last quarter touchdo\vn before 58,062 to win a thrilling, see-saw battle with Notre Dame, 28 to 21, and spoil a gallant effort by the Irish to break an unprecedented losing streak. 
' Dazzling runs by several backs and a stirring aerial duel between Eddie Johns of Miami and Notre Dame's Daryle La­monica highlighted an explosive game in which Miami pinned a seventh consecutive defeat on the Irish. 
Miami's big plays kept the Irish off balance and fighting uphill all the way, although Coach Joe Kuharich's team gained a tie at halftime and again in the third period. 
Notre Dame's Angelo Dabiero breaks into the open, following the l^ referee as Miami's secondary men close in. 
Like most Notre Dame opponents, Miami got the easy one and got it early. After taking the opening kickoff, the Hurri­canes needed only five plays to score. With third down and six yards to go on the Miami 34—an obvious passing situation— quarterback Johns fooled the Irish with the draw play. The eager Irish had swarmed in on Johns who handed off to half­back Nick Ryder. Ryder sped all the way to the Irish ten where George Sefcik finally tripped him up. 
h Jim Vollenweider then ran to the one on a sweep. On the next play, Johns put the Hui-ricanes ahead by diving over center for the score with only 2:28 elapsed. Al Dangel con­'. verted for a 7-0 lead. Mike Lind fumbled away the ball when Notre Dame took over. But the second time in possession Lind got a chance to score when the Irish marched 80 yards in seven plays. Two big plays sparked this drive. On the first one. Angle Dabiero sped outside tackle for 43 yards before he was pushed out on Miami's 38. After three plays failed to gain, Lamonica, on foui-th down, passed to Les Traver all alone at Miami's ten and Traver ) stumbled to the one before falling do^vn. Lind belted over on the next play. Joe Perkowski's kick was wide, leaving Miami in • front, 7-6. The Hurricanes drove steadily at the start of the second ;i period, scoring on a 60-yard march in ten plays. Johns scored i again, but Vollenweider got the tough yardage with a nine-I yard burst to the seven and then six more to the one. In the 
•
 drive, Johns fired to Larry Wilson for 15 and to Bill Miller for 

f.
 two passes totaling 20 yards. Dangel's extra point gave Miami 1 a 14-6 lead with 9:52 remaining in the half. 


- Notre Dame got the ball after the kickoff and moved 77 yards in 14 plays to knot the score. Bill Ahem, the ninth offen­sive fullback used this season by ND, helped out in the drive, but Lamonica's passes were the big key. 
Dabiero gained 18 yards on the second play, and on the fifth play, Lamonica hit Traver at Miami's 40. Ahem and Dabiero netted a first down to the 30, and on third down, Lamonica passed to Max Burnell who was wrestled down at the 7. Bob Scarpitto lost a yard, but Ed Rutkowski gained three before Ahem slipped through a gaping hole to score from the five with only 1:58 left in the half. With the need of two points, the Irish used the Lamonica to Traver pass. Ti-aver snared it in the far left comer of the end zone for the tie of 14-14 at half­time. 
Three minutes after intermission, Miami took over on its 29. Johns ran for ten and Vollenweider for 14, but a holding penalty put the ball back at the 47. Miller, who had consistently out-run the Irish secondary all evening, stole behind Dabiero who had rushed up towai-d the line. Miller galloped all the way to the five from where Vollenweider crashed across in two plays. Dangel again converted for a 21-14 lead. 
The Irish came back quickly with a 62-yard march in ten plays. The big play in the drive was a 37-yard pass from La­monica to Scarpitto who fell out at the one-yard line. Lamonica hurdled the line for the tying touchdown. 
Early in the fourth quarter Irish end Brian Boulac re­covered a Miami fumble at the Hurricane 34. Lamonica fired a long shot to sophomore end Jim Sherlock who grabbed it at the Miami five. A victory seemed inevitable. But an illegal use of hands penalty put the ball back to the Irish 47 and Miami eventually took over after Perkowski's 53-yard field goal at­tempt fell in the end zone. 
Miami then moved 80 yards to score the winning touchdown in eight plays. The key play in this drive was a 49-yard keeper play by Johns. Johns went to his left at his own 35, then cut back and wasn't challenged until he cut the wrong way and George HafFner pulled him down at the Irish 15. Five plays later, Vollenweider crashed into the end zone and Dangel's fourth extra point made it 28-21. 
This was the last score of the night, although the Irish had three chances after that. One failed at midfield and the second and best one misfired when a Lamonica pass was intercepted at the Hurricane 32, with just over five minutes left. 
Rain fell in the final minute of the game played in 77­degree temperature in the Orange Bowl, and rained some Miami homecoming floats, but the Hurricanes had already made their homecoming a success. 
—John Bechtold 

Ed Rutkowski fights for extra yardage as Hunicaiie BID MiDer applies a wrestling hold, aided by Sam Femandez. 
^December 2, 1960 
Nofre Dame 0 
fowa 28

SPEEDSTERS 
Notre Dame, Ind., ISTov. 19, 1960. A thick veil of g-loom hung over the Notre Dame campus late this afternoon after Forest Evashevski's magnificent Iowa Hawkeyes handed the Irish their eighth successive loss this season. 54,146 people saw the third-ranked and Rose Bowl aspiring lowans defeat the gallant Irish 28-0, the second time in histoiy that an Iowa team v^-as able to hold Notre Dame scoreless. As anyone who saw the game will testify, the final score was nowhere near indicative of the closeness of the game, as the inspired Irish fonvard wall, led by Captain Moe Pottios and junior guard Nick Buoniconti, time and again held the fabled Hawkeye Wing-T offense. 
The Irish defense gives a real effort as Clay Schulz, Dennis Murphy, Brian Boulac and John Linehan contain Wilburn HoUis. 
Iowa's first tally came cheaply on the seventh play of the game. The Irish won the toss and elected to receive. However, they fumbled on the first play from scrimmage, giving the ball to the visitors on the Irish 28. Six plays later Iowa fullback Joe Williams cracked over left tackle for six yards and six points. Hawkeye quarterback Tom Moore failed on an at­tempted end sweep for two more points, and at 10:52 of the first quarter the score was Iowa 6, Notre Dame 0. 
The ball was punted back and forth for the remainder of the quarter without any scoring. The Irish were moving the ball well at the end of the period, with Ahern going for five, Minik for two, Perkowski for six and the first doum, Perkowski again for four, Dabiero for four and Perkowski once again for four. The period ended with the Irish in possession on their own 37. 
Hawkeye fullback Williams intercepted Lamonica's pass to break up this drive. Two plays later however little Angelo Dabiero intercepted a Wilbui-n Hollis pass intended for Wil­liams on the 33, but the play was called back because Da­biero's knee touched the ground. The ball changed hands thi-ee times before Sammie "Mercury" Harris, swiftest of the swift Hawkeyes, caught the Irish defense sleeping and raced 34 yards to the Irish 28 where he was pushed out of bounds. Three plays later Hawkeye aerialist Matt Szykowny flipped a beauti­ful pass to Bill Whislei-, completely free from Irish defenders, in the end zone for six more points. Wilbum Hollis re-entered the game and blasted over right tackle for the tAvo-point con­version. At 6:09 of the first half, the score was Iowa 14, Notre Dame 0. 
The Irish, with the passing of George Haffner, almost scored twice in the closing moments of the first half, as two passes completed to Murphy and Traver were ruled caught out of the end zone. 
Perkowski kicked to Gene Mosley to start the third quarter, and just ten plays and 85 yards later, the Hawks were on the ND five, once again knocking on the end zone door. The tough Irish defensive line held for five plays in a magnificent goal-line stand, with Denny Murphy finally ending the Hawkeye threat by recovering quarterback HoUis' fumble on the ND two-yard line. Failing to gain a first douTi, Scarpitto punted 53 yards to the Iowa 41. The Irish gained 45 yards on punt exchanges, and moved to the Iowa 26. 
This scoring drive was broken up bj'^ Iowa guard Shervvyn Thorson's intei'ception of a Haifner pass on the Hawkeye ten, and his subsequent 34-yard return to the Iowa 44. Iowa's star left halfback Larry Ferguson broke loose around right end for 38 yards and the first down to the Irish 17, setting up a third Iowa tally. A pei^sonal foul against the Irish put the ball on the ten. As the third quarter closed, Hollis hit Felton Eogers on the three. 4 
On the second play of the fourth quarter, Hollis plunged three yards for the TD. Moore's placement was good, and the lowans led 21-0, with 14:55 left in the game. The Ii'ish retaliation drive Avas nipped prematurely when Bernie Wyatt intercepted Haffner's pass on the loAva 27. The Hawks failed to gain a first down, and Dabiero returned the punt to the Irish 48. A pass to Dabiero and a Minik plunge Avere good for tAA'o first downs in a roAv. Four plays later Bill DiCindio and Lloyd Humphreys threAV Haffner for a 23-yard loss, and on fourth doAvn Dayton Periy threAA"^ Haffner for a loss of ten. loAva took possession on their 43. Gene Mosley Avas the big gun in this final HaAA^keye scoring driA-e. On the first play from scrimmage Mosley ripped off 36 yards to the Irish 20 for the first doAvn. Six plays later Mosley bucked over from the tAvo for the touchdoAvn. With 4:23 remaimng in the game, Moore's placement Avas ti'ue, and the game scoring Avas over, 28-0 for Iowa. 
Norb Rascher hit on tAvo of four passes for Notre Dame, but Keith Kinderman's interception of a Rascher flip at 2:08 of the final period ended all Irish hopes of scoring. The Iowa reserves ran out the remaining moments of the game. 
The game was OA'^er, and loAA^a had won. Those AA'-ho saAv . the game hoAvever, AA^II sing the praises of men such as Bob Scarpitto, Avho's punting Avas nothing short of phenomenal, of Myron Pottios and Nick Buoniconti, Avho tor^e savagely into the loAva line play after play, and of Les Traver A\'ho never Avould quit. Haffner Avas his usual self, giAring every ounce of desire he could muster for the ailing Irish football cause, a cause that Avill improve as the season progresses. 
— Tom Walsh 

Angelo Dabiero skirts left end with Nick Buoniconti and Joe Pericowski leading the way against the Hawkeyes. ^i 
The Scholastic 

Notre Dome 77 
REBOUND 
Southern California • 0 
LOS ANGELES, Calif., Nov. 26, 1960—Steady rain and steady play by a surprisingly consistent Notre Dame team combined to dampen spirits in Southern California today. In a game that was played under the Coliseum lights on a rain-soaked muddy field, the men from South Bend put together their finest game of the 1960 season and demonstrated the "hard-nosed, grind-'em-out" possession football that coach Joe Kuharich is noted for. Only 28,000 fans, smallest Irish crowd in 20 years, were on hand for the "mud bath." 
The victory, a team effort, was highlighted by the quarter­backing of Sophomore Daryle Lamonica and the running of Angelo Dabiero, Frank Minik, Bill Ahern, Bob Scarpitto, Ed Eutkowski, and Lamonica. The line, anchored by Mo Pottios, 
Q Who has the ball. Bob? Scarpitto reaches out for the ball, which Wi% has already passed through his hands and is falling to the turf. 
Les Traver, Bob Bill, Norb Roy, Ed Burke, Dennis Murphy, 
j Joe Carollo, Nick Buoniconti and John Linehan consistently 
I opened large holes in the Trojan line, made crucial tackles and demonstrated fine downfield blocking, a weak spot in the Irish offense all season. 
Lamonica, a native Californian and Notre Dame's most productive quartei'back all season, showed great promise for the future as he engineered three long sustained drives which culminated in a 17-0 victoi-y for the Irish. Unable to do much passing, Lamonica time after time came up with the necessary play and on four occasions bootlegged the ball for impoi'tant first downs. He also punted for long distances and was alert defensively as is evidenced by his intei'ception of a Bill Nelsen pass, thus beginning the drive that produced the first Irish touchdown. 
Dabiero was the workhorse for the Irish, gaining more yardage than the entire Southern California team. He amassed 89 yards via the turf. Minik, Eutkowski, Ahem and Scarpitto seemed to gain at will and Joe Perkowski's toe was in top f oi-m. 
From the toss of the coin to the final gun, the game was dominated by the Irish. Following the opening kickoff, hard running by Minik, Dabiero and Lamonica moved the ball from the Notre Dame 29 to the Ti'ojan 21 but here the Irish bogged do\vn. Coach Kuharich called on Perkowski for a field goal and when the ball split the uprights from 31 yards out, Notre Dame enjoyed its first lead since the opening California game. 
The Irish kicked off and on the second play from scrim­mage, Lamonica intercepted a Trojan pass and ran it back to the Southern California 45. It took just eight plays for the Irish to tally their first touchdown. An 18-yard rollout pass to Murphy and runs by Dabiero and Minik put the ball on the Trojan one, Lamonica bulled over for the score, Perkowski kicked the extra point, and Notre Dame had a 10-0 lead. 
After the ball had exchanged hands, the Irish were once again on the move. With ten minutes remaining in the second period. Southern California punted and Scarpitto returned the ball to the Notre Dame 20. Notre Dame, using the straight-T formation, now demonstrated possession football at its finest by giinding out 80 yards in 18 plays taking 9 minutes. Eut­kowski, Scarpitto and Lamonica moved the ball all the way to the Trojan nine. Scarpitto then came up with the most exciting run of the game. He veered wide to the left side, and when Dave Washington and Al Prukop hit him at the eleven, he worked his way free and crashed goalward. Jim Bates and Jeriy Traynham slowed him up at the two but Scarpitto carried them over the goal line. Perkowski made the extra point and the Irish were up, 17-0. 
Only twice did Southern California thi-eaten. Late in the second period Nelsen, the Trojan sophomore quarterback, sparkled with some nifty pin-point passing and Dave Wilson contributed a 15-yard mn, but with the ball on the Irish 24, time ran out. Then late in the fourth period the Trojans moved the ball to the Notre Dame 15, but with the scoreboard clock showing time for only one play Jack Castin, Notre Dame's nagged senior defensive back, broke up a Ben Charles pass to end the game. In the third quarter a less serious Tro­jan drive was halted when George Haffner recovered a fumble on the Irish 42 after Burke and Buoniconti had jolted the Trojan ball caiTier. The remainder of the time Notre Dame either conti'oUed the ball or controlled Southern California. 
The sole standout for the Trojans was their AU-American end Marlin McKeever whose blocking, tackling and punting helped contain Notre Dame. 
The Irish defense was truly outstanding during the con­test. They fully dominated the larger Trojan line. Time and again the Trojans wei'e forced to punt and in the first half were able to get off only eight plays from scrimmage and gain eight yards mshing to 201 for the Irish. 
Notre Dame proved themselves a good "mudder" in that they lost the ball only once by a fumble, had no passes inter­cepted and showed their most productive offense of the year. 
The 17-0 final score gave the Irish a 2-8 record for the season and marked the first shutout recorded by Notre Dame under Coach Kuharich. The upset enabled the Irish to end the season on a victorious note and avert the possibility of having the worst season in Notre Dame football annals. 
Coach Kuharich was cari-ied off the field; Pottios received the game ball; and all agreed that it was a fine win for a downtrodden Notre Dame football team. 
—Pete Eeilly 

Frank Minik, aided by Dan Griffith's fine Mock, has tinie to stop and think which way he shouM now go. 
December 2, 1960 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—HOME OF THE FIGHTING IRISH 
Bricks, sod and great football teams 
The House That Rockne Built 
by JOHN 

This season marked the thirtieth year in which the Fighting Irish football team has played its home games in the Notre Dame Stadium. The stadium was built in 1930 at a cost of $800,000. Al­though built 30 years ago, the stadium was on the drawing board for many yeai-s before this. 
In 1924 it was becoming increasingly apparent that a larger arena than Cartier Field must be built. With Notre Dame emerging as a major football power, the wooden stands of Cartier Field were not adequate. Even with many fans standing or sitting on a nearby maintenance house, the field could only hold 30,000 at the most. 
A student petition was sent to Father Matthew Walsh, then president of the University, asking for the building of a more adequate arena. However, in 1924, there were many more pressing problems on Father Walsh's mind. These were the years that Enute Rockne and company put Notre Dame on the map. As Notre Dame became universally known, a flow of new stu­dents b^;an to overload the University. The University couldn't house or feed all these new students. Therefore, Father Walsh told the students that no new stadium could be built until sufficient facilities for housing and food were provided. 
During the next five years Morrissey, Lyons and Howard Halls and the South  BECHTOLD 
Dining Hall were built. So, in 1929, bids were submitted for the building of the Notre Dame Stadium. 
The original sod from Cartier Field, where Notre Dame did not lose a home game in 23 years, was moved into the new field. The stadium, when completed, measured a half-mile around, and seated 56,000 fans. More than 2,000,000 bricks were used in the edifice which, if laid end to end, would reach from Notre Dame to the Cleveland waterfront, ap­proximately 300 miles. 
The stadium was ready for use for the first home game of the 1930 season against Southern Methodist University. In that game, played on Oct. 4, the Irish scored their first of many victories in the stadium by beating the Mustangs, 20-14. 
The following Friday night the sta­dium was dedicated before 20,000 people prior to the next day's encounter with the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy. The President of the University at that time. Father Charles L. O'Donnell, Rear Admiral S. S. Robinson, Superintendent of the Naval Academy, and the l^end­ary Rockne spoke briefly at this dedi­cation. The following afternoon Rockne's great 1930 squad crushed Navy, 26-2, in the dedication game with Joe Savoldi torpedoing the Middies with touchdown runs of 23, 48 and five yards before an estimated 50,000. 
(Continued on page 45) 
Let us take care of your 
CHRISTMAS GIFT PROBLEMS 
For the Family 
Luggage, Leather Goods and the unusual 
NANS/^INT»CH 
MICHIGAN at COLFAX 
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . lEWELRY 
J. TRETHEWEY 
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches 
JOE, THE JEWELER 
104 N. Moin St. J.M.S. Bid?. 
RUBIN CLEANERS 
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card 
217 E. JEFFERSON 
Downtown—on the Bus Line 
COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE 
FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10 • 
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years! 
*
 NOTRE 

*
 DAME 

*
 STUDENTS 


Eat At 
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM 
1345 Ironwood Drive 
10% Student Discount 
BUY YOUR 
ESTERBROOK PEN 
at the 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
NABICHT CAFETERIA 
• 
1415 Lincolnway West 
AAA Approved Cafeteria • 
FREE PARKING 

Future Vacations 
and 
Footbdl Tours 
1961 

Eighf-Day All Expense 
Tour 
VISIT AND SEE 

WASHINGTON. D. C. WILLIAMSBURG, VA. DURHAM. N. C. 
N. D. vs. DUKE 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1962 
Twenfy-One-Ooy 

Hawaiian islands Vacation 
N. D. vs. SO. CAL. 

Write for prices and details 
REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU 1671 Lincolnway East South Bend 14, Indiana Phone AT 9-8659 

All set to play Santa Oaus? 
What you need is a red suit, white beaid, isA pillow, and a pack full of Esterbrook Classic Pen and Pencil Sets. You can be anyone's favorite Santa if you give the smoothest-looking, smoothest-writing Christmas gift this side of the North Pole. Your choice of 6 holi­day colors and 32 changeable pen points, too. 
SAtetStooM S^ •4.95 ~r 
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co. 
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32 —ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU! 
December 2, 1960 
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS 
• 
CREST The Ugly American 
Wm. Lederer 
UNIVERSE ARCHITECTURE SERIES 
• 
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog 
Dylon Thoma 
Great Artists Speak for Themselves and Their Times 
• 
The Library of Great Painters Great Masterpieces 
• 
GREAT RELIGIOUS PAINTINGS The Nativity 
• 
1961 Calendar of Treasured Mosaics 
• 
The Uffici Series in Full Color 
AHENTION: 
Faculty and Students 
• Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 
(Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.50 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
on - the - campus 

JACK McAUISTER 
30 years at Notre Dame 
Football Legend At ND, McAllister in 30tli Year 
Jack McAllister, the little Irishman born in England before the turn of the century, is a football legend at Notre Dame. 
This marked the 30th football season that Mac has sei-ved as superintendent of athletic equipment. Probably no one has seen more Irish Ail-Americans come and go .than Mac. From Rockne's time, he remembers most -of the names of boys he's assisted in fiis job. 
The duties of Mac's job are to see to the distribution of equipment and the cleaning and sorting of the paraphenalia that the Irish gridders wear on the practice field and for the games. 
Mac needs a sharp memoiy, especially for away games. When the team is on the road, seven trunks and 40 duffle bags must be packed with painstaking care, insuring that pants and pads, shoes and socks, light and dark jerseys, i-ain caps, balls, helmets, miles of tape, and some­times even a supply of water are ready for the journey. 
McAllister is respected and admired by Notre Dame men, past and present. The Monogram Club elected him an honorary member of their exclusive or­ganization a few years ago. 
This man could tell many of his first year experiences as Notre Dame's equipment superintendent. That year, 1930, was Knute Rockne's last year as football coach. The 1930 Irish were Na­tional Champions, being undefeated in ten games. Mac recalls the AU-Ameri­cans from that squad: Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Marty Brill and Bert Metzer. 
Since 1930, Mac has seen five xm­beaten Irish teams. The list of AU-Americans that Mac has had daily con­tact with include Bill Shakespeare, Angelo Bertelli, Johnny Lujack, Leon Hart, John Lattner, Ralph Guglielmi, Paul Homung and Nick Pietrosante. 
Notre Dame Sponsors National Pigskin Fund 

This year, for the first time in Notre Dame's football history, a stand rep­resenting the National Football Founda­tion and Hall of Fame was situated in front of the Notre Dame Stadium on .^ each home football Saturday. Notre Dame was selected as one of the uni­versities to sponsor the cause of this Foundation. 
NATION-WIDE ORGANIZATION 
A nation-wide organization. The Na­tional Football Foundation had a three­fold purpose for its presence here on campus. First, the Foundation endeav­ored to promote American amateur foot-{g ball as an integral and wholesome part of our educational process. 
Another important reason for its pres­ence here was to encourage the bene­ficial direction and playing of the game at this school, thus making Notre Dame somewhat of a representative to other schools in the area. 
The third and final purpose was to provide the proper incentives and ideals for American youth and to set a stand-•<^ ard of spoi-tsmanship for the individual player. 
The Foundation, in seeking to estab­lish the true concept of the game as an amateur sport, was depending upon the Notre Dame stand and other like it to implement their fund raising drives. This included the building of the Hall of Fame building and also the creation of a future endowment. 
Notre Dame effectively carried out its ;; pai-t in sponsoring the Foundation here. ^ For several hours preceding each Satur­day home game and also at the game's conclusion, volunteers at the stand handed out information cnoceming the Founda­tion and its purpose. 
PUBLICITY 
The publicity of the Foundation was , assisted by one-minute commentaries ^ over the public address during each game. Such notables as Red Grange, Hank Greenberg, Pat O'Brien, Perry Como and Mel Allen were the guest speakers who helped to sponsor the pro-gi^am here. 
The Studebaker-Packard Corporation of South Bend also did its part. At halftime, while the speeches were being carried over the public address, a Stude­baker with colorful Hall of Fame pen­nants drove around the Stadium track. <G 
Many Notre Dame fans and students, interested in the cause of amateur foot­ball joined the Foimdation. Each new member received a membership card, the "Footballeter," the Foundation's monthly digest and other current information about amateur football, 
Notre Dame can justifiably feel proud that it was selected to represent the Foundation and then carried out its pur­pose of publicizing it. 

Final 19i 
TEAM PUNTING KICKOFF RETURNS 
Notre Danie Opponents 
No. Yards Avg. No. Yards TD 
• 111 Points Scored 188 Lamonica 23 861 37.4 Scarpitto 10 230 0 
127 First Downs 130 Scarpitto 15 599 40.0 Sefcik 7 170 0 83 by Rushing 91 Sefcik 9 239 26.6 Dabiero 5 114 0 40 by Passing 33 Rutkowski 3 90 30.0 Minik 2 58 0 
Caito 2 39 0

4 by Penalties 6 Rutkowski 2 37 0
1537 Yards Rushing 1608 RUSHING 
Mack 1 30 0 

463 Times Carried 469 
TC. Yds. Avg. O'Hara 1 24 0
L
3.32 Yards-per-ti-y 3.43 Schulz 1 18 0
Dabiero 80 325 4.1 900 Yards Passing 919 Sefcik 50 248 5.0 Clark 1 17 0 HaflFner 1 16 0
173 ... Passes Attempted Il l Scarpitto 51 228 4.5 
Murphy 1 10 0

Lind 53 167 3.2 
56 ... Passes Completed 53 Perkowski ... 1 10 0Per'kowski 25 131 5.2 
.324 Completion Percentage 477 Ahem 24 82 3.4 
8 Passes Intercepted by 21 Rutkowski 25 76 3.0 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

43 , Yards Int. Returned 397 Lamonica 26 73 2.8 2438 TOTAL OFFENSE 2527 Minik 29 69 2.4 Tackles 50 Pimts 57 Henneghan 17 44 2.6 Pottios 74; Buoniconti 71; Traver Liggio 10 37 3.7 67; Roy 65; Bill 47; Linehan 41; 
1789 Total Yards 2100 
Naab 12 34 2.8 
DePola 38; Dabiero, Haffoer and 

^ 35.8 Average 36.9 
Maxwell 9 30 3.3 
Schulz 37; Sefcik 35; Lamoniai Yards Punts Returned 213 

I 285 Mack 9 29 3.2 33; Burke 31; CaroIIo 30; Murphy 28 Fumbles 23 Ratkowski 6 24 4.0 
26; Hoerster 25; Sherlock 23; 

17 Ball Lost 14 O'Hara 5 11 2.2 Boulac 21; Burnell, Minik and Griffith 3 8 2.7 WUliams 20; Land 17; HecomoTieh Gargiulo 2 3 1.5 12; Castin 11; Perkowski 10; 
SCORING 

Caito 1 1 1.0 Wilke 9; Rutkowski and Scarpitto 
TD PAT FG TP 
Rascher 7 -18 8; Liggio 7; Grau and Powers 6; 
Scarpitto 5 0 0 30 
Haffner 20 -64 Ahem, Eolski, Pietizak and Viola Dabiero 3 0 0 18 5; O'Hara 4; Ma(^ and Magnotta 'Lamonica 3 0 0 18 PASS INTERCEPTIONS ^'' ^^^^"' Luecke and Monahan Perkowski 0 9 1 12 2; Augustine, Ford, Loula, Max-No. Yards TD well, Naab, Nissi, Rascher, Rat-
Ahem 1 0 0 6 
Haffner 3 2 0 kowski and Seller 1. 
Burnell . 1 0 0 6 
Sefcik 2 17 0 DePola . 1 0 0 6 
Lamonica 1 18 0 Lind 1 0 0 6 Dabiero 1 6 0 Passes Broken Up Sherlock 1 0 0 6 Kolski 1 0 0 Dabiero 6; Haffner and Sefcik 
u 
3; Lamonica, Minik, Scarpitto and 
Traver . 0 2 0 2 
PllMT PCTiiQKic Schulz 2; Boulac, Buoniconti, De-
Henneghan 0 1 0 1 KUIMT RETURNS p^^^^ Gargiulo, Hoerster, Liggio, 
No. Yards Avg. Lind, Linehan and Traver 1. 
PASSES CAUGHT 

Number Yards TD Dabiero 8 102 12.8 
^f''^ ^l f! ]'] Opponents Fumbles Recovered 
Traver 14 225 0 Mmik 8 35 4.4 rr » ^ • ^ T* i
o«o^r.;++^ 1 ic ten Traver 2; Buomconti, Boulac, 
Scarpitto 8 164 0 Scarpitto 1 16 16.0 .„ n /-« -rr ^^ TT 
,„^„„-„ 1 If, ^ni\ Burnell, Carollo, Haffiier, Hoer-
Lamomca 1 10 10.0 . T-JH* T. O i. i a ^ I.
Burnell 6 84 1 
DePola 1 8 8.0 ' ' ^^^^y* Schulz, Sefcik Dabiero 5 112 1 T> 4.f 1 in -.nn ^^d Wllkc 1. 
Pottios 1 10 10.0 
Sefcik 5 106 0 Ratkowski 1 8 8.0 
Sherlock 5 59 1 
Caito 1 7 7.0 Blocked Kicks 
; Murphy 3 40 0 
Rutkowski 1 4 4.0 DePola 3; Pottios 1. jRutkowski 2 43 0 
PASSES 
iRatkowski 2 21 0 
Att. Comp. Intercepted Yards TD Pet.
iund 2 10 0 Haffner 108 30 11 548 3 .277 
I^ullen 1 22 0 
Lamonica 31 15 5 242 0 .484 
iPerkowski 1 10 0 
Rascher 30 11 3 110 0 .367 Griffith 1 4 0 Rutkowski 3 0 1 0 0 .000 ^^COargiulo 1 1 0 Schulz 1 0 1 0 0 .000 
ecember 2, 1960 37 
. 

Notre Dame Seniors 
THE NOTRE DAME by BILL GARY 
BOOKSTORE 
Has 
Diomond Rings 
Hallmark 
Heart Band 
His & Hers 
Wedding and Engagement Rings and Bands 
SPECIAL STUDENT PRICES 

A small but hard core of seniors have performed admirably for the Irish this year. These men will be missed next year as Notre Dame attempts to re­cover from the poor 1960 season. 
Captain Pottios. First and foremost of the graduates is Captain Myron Pot­tios. The 225-pound native of Van Voorhis, Pa. was a bulwark in the Notre Dame defense throughout the yeai*, ranking among the leaders in tackles on the team. His efficiency both on of­fense and defense was hindered by the knee injury which sidelined him in 1958. 
"Moe" stai-ted his varsity career as a center. He played outstanding ball throughout his sophomore year until sidelined by a shoulder injury in the 
MYRON POTTIOS 
A pro career ahead 
Pitt game. Pottios finished his initial varsity year with 32 tackles, one fumble recovery and high hopes for his junior and senior years. 
Pottios was tremendous in the North Carolina and Purdue encounters at the start of the 1959 season. Then in the California game, the third contest of that year, Myron was hit from the blind side on a punt return and watched the rest of the games fi-om the sidelines. At the time of his injuiy Myron was leading the team in tackles and was drawing rave notices from the press. 
As the 1960 season approached, all Irish fans were asking the same ques­tion, "Would Pottios be able to regain his former effectiveness?" Pottios was sidelined for the California opener, this time with an injured toe. But as the season progressed, Pottios became more and more effective and showed definite signs of making a complete recovery 
from the injuiy. 
There is little doubt that Pottios will be a top draft pick when the men who'^ know, the pros, make their draft selec­tions in the annual draft. With his size, speed and natural ability, "Moe" is a top professional prospect. 
Red Mack. William "Red" Mack, a 175-pounder from Allison Park, Pa., finished his college career on the after­noon of October 1, 1960. In the second quarter of the Purdue game. Red at­tempted to break up a pass intended for the spiderlike Manzie Winters. In the 
A
process, Mack wrecked the cartilage in his left knee, his supposedly "good leg." Thus ended ti-agically the college foot­ball career of Red Mack. 
Mack was one of the most promising football playei's ever to appear at Notre Dame. He was the kind of player who gave the whole team a lift. His mere presence in the lineup had the intangi­ble effect of inspir'ing his teammates. As a sophomore in 1958, Red's game-in game-out perfonnance reminded Irish 
I. 
7
fans of the immortal Johnny Lattner. Like Lattner, Mack excelled in all phases of the game. The thing that set Mack apart from other players was the quality he had so great an abundance of — HEART. 
There are other outstanding men from this fall's team who have played their last college game also. All of these men distinguished themselves in their varsity careers here at Notre Dame. 

M^
Halfback Bob Scarpitto was one of the top mnning and pass receiving threats for the Irish in each of his three years here. Always a threat from the line of scrimmage, Scarpitto was even more adept on kickoff and punt returns. In addition, Scarpitto was an outstand­ing punter and his performance in the Iowa game attests to this fact. 
Center John Linehan made his first lengthy appearance in a Notre Dame 'ih game this year against Pittsburgh. Linehan was the outstanding lineman on the field that day as he made 20 tackles and was a vicious offensive blocker. Linehan's line perfonnance was one of the outstanding of the year in college football. 
All contributed. The list of senior linemen who completed their careers last Saturday includes end Tom Mona­han, tackle Bob Pietrzak and guard Paul Nissi. The backfield losses are also of importance. In addition to Mack and Scarpitto, the Kuharichmen lose such stalwarts as quarterbacks Jack Castin and Dan Luecke, halfbacks Bill Clark and Ray Ratkowski and fullbacks Bill Henneghan and Frank Gargiulo. 
All of the above men contributed to the Notre Dame football team although only Pietrzak, Castin, Henneghan and 
(Continued on page 49) 
^^1 

^ccx*~'?!Tro~" "•'"/ 
^-f^:^^ 
Porrfos ,. 
5*'#?<'-;;^ 
^v^•^ ^ - •^"'--s^ 
•• ,;Recr¥;'DuJs^^' 
wm 

Lrrt:«^r 
THE SPORTS PUBLICITY STAFF AT WORK 
Secretary Mary McCarthy is seated at the desk, looking over one of the newly printed programs. Looking over her shoulder is the Irish sports publicist Charlie Callahan. Standing at Callahan's left is Jerry Hewitt, student assistant, while senior student assistant Bob Schaefer looks on from Mary's right. 
Publicity of N D Football 
Charles Callahan, a tall, smiling Irish­man, heads a hard working group which comprises the Sports Publicity staflF at the University of Notre Dame. Callahan has been publicity chief at his alma mater since 1946. He and his staff are en­trusted with the job of keeping the public will informed on the activities of Notre Dame athletes. 
In his work Callahan is assisted by three students plus his personal secre­tary. Miss Marj^ McCarthy. His chief assistant is a senior history major. Bob Schaefer. Lending a hand to Schaefer are Ken Murphy, a junior engineering student, and Jerry Hewitt, a sophomoi-e in the College of Arts and Letters. Dur­ing the football season Mrs. Eleanor Vanderhagen also assists Callahan. 
Callahan as Director of Sports Pub­licity is a busy man. His first big task each year is the Football Dope Book which comes out each fall and highlights the coming football season. Included in this publication are sketches on all of the Irish players, plus stories on the coaches and the opponents to be met during the course of the season. Work on the "dope book" begins in July. 
Once the football season begins, Cal­lahan is the living image of the "man in perpetual motion." He must see that the newspapers are supplied with sufficient information on the Fighting Irish. Be­sides this, he must see that the home­town papers of the Irish players are kept well supplied with the information they desire. This includes not only stories of the players but also pictures of the gridders, 
A FOOTBALL WEEK 

Probably the biggest job for Callahan comes during the weeks of the five home games. He must see that the visiting writers have such necessary accommo­dations as press passes and hotel rooms. Then comes the task of keeping the 400­seat press box functioning smoothly. This entails seeing that the visiting scribes are kept supplied Avith the necessaiy in­formation such as game statistics, start­ing lineups and any last minute changes or announcements that may affect the game. He must see that the writers who need the use of the Western Union wire are seated close to it. 
At the end of each quarter, a sheet is passed to all the press box members which gives a play-by-play account of the action of the previous quartei*. This is a great aid to the scribes in helping them wi'ite their comments on the game. Also game statistics are passed out at halftime and again at the end of the game. All of this is courtesy of Mr. Callahan and his hardworking crew. 
An indication of the time consuming quality of Callahan's job is the fact that he seldom sees more than a few minutes of each game. He is constantly checking to see that all the press box occupants | 
are well attended to. 
Sports Publicity also puts out the foot-^ ball program for each home game, while also supplying any needed information for opponents' use in making up the program for Irish away games. 
Each week during the football season, starting with fall practice in early Sep­tember, Callahan and his staff issue a six to eight page news release sent to' 1350 newspapers and radio-TV an­nouncers across the nation. In addition to this weekly release, a daily release is sent to the Chicago Tribioie, Indianapo­lis Star, and both news services—the As­sociated Press and United Press Inter­national. 
OTHER PUBLICATIONS 
The office also handles requests throughout the year for information on( current or past Nore Dame athletes and athletics. Such publications as the Mono-gi-am News, a semi-yearly publication of . the Monogram Club, are also prepared by the Publicity Office. 
With this football season, Callahan completes his fourteenth year as head : of the Sports Publicity office. The 1938 ; graduate of Notre Dame served in the Air Force in World War II before as­suming his present duties. An additional ( interest of Callahan's is his column "Sportscastin'" which appears weekly' in the Sunday Visitor, a Catholic news-' paper with a national circulation. 
Callahan's secretary, Mary, and his three assistants also manage to keep quite busy, especially during the foot-; ball season. As a private secretary, it is; Mary's duty to answer much of the cor-• respondence and to keep records do\vn to the minute details. 
Schaefer, Hewitt and Murphy are all in their second year with the Sports^ Publicity office. Both Schaefer and Hewitt ^ gained expei'ience for the job by writing M for the Scholastic sports staff before as-J suming their present duties. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN 
The Scholastic 

1960 COACHES OF THE IRISH 
Left to Right: Dick Stanfel, Line Coach; Brad Lynn, Assistant Backfield Coach; Head Coach Joe Kuharich; Don Doll, Backfield Coach; Bill Daddio, First Assistant and End Coach. Assistant Line Coach John Murphy is not pictured. 
NOTRE DAME COACHING STAFF 
The 1960 Notre Dame football season 

^ 
was a disappointment to all who follow Notre Dame football. However, for seven men the dismal season was a particular­ly bitter pill to swallow. These seven men are the coaching staff of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH KUHARICH is the number one man on the 1960 coaching staff. Kuharich is a native of South Bend. The 43-year-old head man, who has just com­
kpleted his second season as coach at his alma mater, graduated from Notre Dame in 1938. 
As a collegian Kuharich played on the Irish teams of 1935, 1936 and 1937. In his senior year he earned All-Midwest honors for his play. An indication of Kuharich's playing ability is seen in a statement by his coach, Elmer Layden. Said Layden, "Joe Kuharich was one of the best and smartest players I ever had at Notre Dame." 
} 
by BILL CARY 
Kuharich started his coaching career as assistant freshman coach at Noti-e Dame in 1938. The next year he coached at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N.Y. 
Launching his professional coaching career in 1946, the present Irish mentor sei-ved as line coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers. The next year he moved on to San Francisco, holding the same capa­city, and then in 1948 he became head mentor at the Jesuit school. His 1951 eleven went undefeated in nine games. 
His second pro coaching job was as head coach of the Chicago Cardinals in 1952. He left this position in 1953 to scout for various pro teams. In 4^54 Kuharich became head coach at Wash­ington. He was named the professional "Coach of the Year" in 1955. George Preston Marshall, the owner of the Red­skins, has said, "I was blessed with genius, or luck, twice in my life. The first time was when Sammy Baugh came 
to play, the second when Joe Kuharich came to coach." 
BILL DADDIO is second in command to Kuharich. His primaiy concern is in­structing the ends. Daddio played his college ball at Pittsbm-gh, graduating in 1939. He gave up a good job at Purdue where he developed such outstandings ends as Lamar Lundy, Leo Sugar and Darrell (Pete) Brewster to accept the Notre Dame post. 
Having coached at Pitt for two years following his gi-aduation before plasring for the Chicago Cardinals in 1941 and 1942, Kuharich's affable assistant was his pro teammate in the former year. 
Daddio was head coach at Allegheny College in his hometown of MeadviUe, Pa., from 1947 to 1951. He joined Ku­harich in 1952 sei-ving as line coach of the Chicago Cardinals. 1953 saw Daddio scouting for the Pittsburgh Steelers. In the spring of 1954, he joined the Purdue 
(Continued on page 43) 

December 2, 1960 
1960 FROSH SHOW PROMISE FOR FUTURE 
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
"In time, I think that all the fresh­men football players should be able to provide some help for the Varsity." This was Freshman Football Coach Hugh Devore's estimation of the strength of his 1960 squad. 
In enlarging on this statement, De­vore went on to say that he felt that Notre Dame, as well as many other foot­ball teams, is suffering from the fresh-
HUGH DEVORE 
Building for the future 

man player's attitude that failure to 
start or at least play considerably dur­
ing his sophomore season makes him a 
football failure. 
This Devore cited as one of the prin­cipal causes of the failure of this year's Varsity: the predominance of sopho­mores, the large number of juniors, and the scarcity of seniors. He feels the sit­uation should be reversed, with the seniors carx-ying the brunt of the load, the juniors lending considerable help, and only an occasional sophomore break­ing into the lineup. 
Assisted this fall by Dave Hurd pri­marily, and also Tom Bonofiglio and Dan Deigert — all injured scholarship football playei-s — Devore has stressed blocking and tackling, and has tried to instill in his squad the fundamentals of Coach Joe Kuharich's winged-T of­fense. 
On a squad which has 40 of its 54 members on full scholarships, and an­other five on partial scholarships, De­vore feels that his ends and guards give indication of offering the most imme­diate help to the Varsity. "With the others," he says, "it's just a question of perserverance. They should all make it eventually." 
Asked to name some individual stand­outs, Devore declined, stating that 
"We've only worked among ourselves. 
You can't really say one player is bet­
ter than another until they've been 
tested under fire in a game." 
This year's freshman end corps aver­ages 209 pounds per man. The largest of these are Tom Sessi and Jim Snow-den. Sessi stands 6-3 and hails from Weirton, West Virginia. Snowden is an inch taller at 6-4, and lives in Youngs­toum, Ohio, where he played his high school ball at East Youngstown High School. Both weigh 225 pounds. Other ends are Tom Gobei-ville, 6-3 and 200 pounds, from Chicago Mendel; Jim Kelly, 6-2 and 195 pounds, from Clair-ton, Pennsylvania; 6-2, 210 pound John Meyer from Chicago Brother Rice; Joe Monahan, 6-2, 195 pounds, who played his high school ball in Ar­eola, Illinois; John Murray, 6-1 and 210 pounds, from Newark, N. J. John Simon, 6-3, 218 pounds, a resident of St. Louis, Missouri; and Warren Stephens, a 6-3, 200-pounder from Burlingame, Cali­fornia. 
The tackles on this year's frosh squad are huge: seven of the eight tackles weigh 220 or over. They are: Grant Abrahamson, Deei-field, Illinois; George Bednar of Shavertown, Pennsylvania; Dave Humenik from Port Vue, Penn­sylvania; John Knight, Pacoima, Cali­fornia; Greg Maclnnis of San Fran­cisco; Dan Eeardon from Chicago Leo; and Scotty Videmschek of St. Louis. The lone tackle under 200 pounds is Warren Sanger, a 190-pounder from New York City. 
Of the ten guards on the freshman squad Tom Finnei-an and Marty Olosky are the heaviest at 225 pounds, while Finneran is two inches taller than Olosky at 6-3. Finneran hails from Mt. Vernon, N. Y., and Olosky is a native of Flint, Michigan. Franz Fleischli of Springfield, Illinois, is the smallest of the guard corps at 5-9 and 195 pounds. Other guards ai-e Wayne Allen of Wil­mington, Delaware; John Anton of St. Louis, Missouri; Mike DiCarlo, Clair-ton, Peimsylvania; Nick Etten, Chicago St. Ignatius; Phil Kienast, from Ocono­mowoc, Wisconsin; Rudy Marshalek of Bentleyville, Pennsylvania; and Ron Vomero of Erie, Pennsylvania. 
The 1960 frosh squad has four center candidates. Bill Burns is 6-1 and 195 pounds from Philadelphia. Boyd Ja­jesnica of Manchester, New Hampshire scales 215 pounds and stands 6-2. Bob Lesko at 6-0 and 215 pounds from Homestead, Pennsylvania and Pat Ke­neally, 6-2 and 215 pounds, from New York City round out the center roster. 
This season's freshman quarterbacks are Frank Budka, Jay Gamble, Tom Meagher, Bill Pfeiffer, Denny Szot, and Wayne Zdanowicz. All are six feet tall or over Avith the exception of Gamble, who stands 5-10, and played his high school ball in Salt Lake City, Utah. Budka, from Pompana Beach, Florida, scales 180. Gamble weighs in at 175, and Meagher from Louisville goes 165. Pfeiffer from Chicago DePaul and Szot from Chicago Mendel are the biggest at 195 pounds, while Zdanoi.\acz weighs 180. 
The 1960 Irish Freshman Team roster includes twelve halfbacks, ranging in weight from 165 to 200 pounds. They in­clude John Barnard, of Kansas City; Joe Farrell of Chicago Mendel; Frank Fee of Rockville Center, N. Y.; Mike Jordan, Logansport, Indiana; Tom MacDonald from Downey, California; Bill Mundee, Cedar Lake, Indiana; Jim Nugent of Redbank, N. J.; John Robinson of New Britain, Connecticut, one of the fastest men on the squad; Bob Secret of Clarks­burg, West Virginia; Alan Sepsi of Brownsville, Pennsylvania; Bob Simms from St. Michael, Minnesota; and Mike Walusis of Dayton, Ohio. 
Devore has three fullbacks under his tutelege, two of them over 200 pounds. At 6-4 and 280 pounds, Paul Costa of Portchester, N. Y., is the most massive fullback at Notre Dame in a good many years, and adds good speed to his size to make him a sound prospect. Joe Kantor from Cleveland St. Ignatius f goes 6-1 and 205 pounds, and the third fullback, John Pi-usmack of Garden City, N. Y., stands 5-11 and weighs 191. 
^ 
K 
%
DAVE HURD 
Guidance for freshmen 

Commenting on a Time Magazine arti­cle that said Notre Dame was no longer able to recruit good football players be­cause of discipline and academics, De­vore said, "I don't think it's true. There have always been players we couldn't touch. This years freshman team shows we're still getting good men." 
The Scholastic 
TUmON and EXTRA MSH 
This Easy Spare-Time Way! 
A few spare time hours a week con bring YOU alt the cash you need! It's pleasant, easy, and requires neither investment nor experience! Just show smart Kushiontred Shoes and new insulated outdoor Campus Jackets to men on or off campus Moke friends while you moke money' Earnings of S5.00 per hour not un­usuol. Postcord brings complete information, shows you how to start. All FREE! Write today! 
TANNERS SHOE CO. • 779 Brockton, Mass. 
campus 
character: 

k 
PSAMUEL PSYCHE 
A thinking man's thinking man, Psamuel finds that thoughts come easiest when he is most comfort­able. 
That's why he always wears Jockey brand T-shirts. He likes the way the fine combed cotton feels next to his skin. He likes the way the twin-stitched, nylon-reinforced collar keeps its shape. And he likes the full-pro­portioned body and extra long tail that never creeps. 
You, too, will like your­self better when you enjoy the comfort of Jockey brand T-shirts. Your favorite campus store has them. $1.50 
COOPER'S. INCORPORATED • KENOSHA. WIS. 
c
uockeii 
@ BRAND 
T-shirts 

December 2, 1960 
The Coaches 
(Continued from page 41) 
staff where he sei-ved until rejoining Kuharich at Notre Dame. 
Daddio is an all-ai'ound sportsman. 
Quite a golfer, he was the city champ 
of Lafayette while at Purdue as a coach. 
RICHARD STANFEL is the line 
coach of Notre Dame. Stanfel joined 
the Notre Dame staff after a brilliant 
pro career with the Detroit Lions and 
Washington Redskins. In 1954 when the 
Lions won the world title, his team­
mates were so impressed by the big 
Stanfel's perfonnances throughout the 
season that they named him their most 
valuable player. 
Stanfel played on the San Francisco 
team coached by Kuharich which went 
undefeated in 1951. In his professional 
days, Stanfel was a perennial All-Pro 
selection and it was his strong blocking 
that was instrumental in giving the 
Washington eleven a strong i-unning 
game. 
Besides his coaching at Notre Dame, 
Dick has worked on the College All-Star 
staff in a similar capacity the last two 
years. 
JOHN MURPHY is the assistant line 
coach and works primarily with the 
tackles. Last year he sei"ved as assistant 
freshman coach and was moved up to 
the varsity ranks when Dick Evans left 
to join the Cleveland Browns. 
Murphy played on the Irish teams of 1935-37 with Kuharich. He coached at Union Endicott High School in New York from 1938-44. Then he put in three years at Holy Trinity High in Chicago and from 1947-50 was assistant at Auburn. 
He gained his g^i'eatest fame at South Bend Adams High where he built the Eagles into a power after many years as a doonnat for the opposition. His over-all record w^as 46-26-3. Coach Mur­phy is also a teacher, retaining his du­ties on the Adams faculty aside from his work at Notre Dame. He also assists Brad Lynn in scouting Irish opponents. 
DON DOLL is the head backfield coach. Doll was one of the great backs in the history of Southern California and was an All-Pacific Coast selection in 1947 and 1948. 
Like Stanfel, Don was an All-League selection as a pro for four straight years (1950-54). He played four years with the Detroit Lions and one each ^vith the Washington and Los Angeles teams. Doll was named the outstanding player in the Pro Bowl game in 1953. 
Before coming to Notre Dame he was an assistant at Washington University and Southern California. In between, Don was head mentor at West Contra Costa Junior College. In the last few years he has joined Stanfel on the Col­lege All-Star staff as defensive coach. 
BRAD LYNN, the newest face on the staff, was a sophomore halfback on the 1937 Notre Dame team when Kuharich was a senior guard. He sei-ved as back­field coach for Kuharich while the latter was head coach at San Francisco. 
COACH JOE KUHARICH A season to forget 

Brad spent four years in the Navy during World War II. He also has worked as a special agent for the FBI. In recent years he was active in high school coaching in Santa Cmz, Calif. 
Lynn has the important job of scout­ing future Irish opponents along with Murphy. It is on the infonnation as­similated by these men that the coaches plan their strategy for the coming game. 
HUGH DEVORE is the last, but cer­tainly not the least member of the coaching staff. A former end on the Irish teams of 1931, '32 and '33, Hugh was a teammate of Irish athletic direc­tor Moose Krause. He became Notre Dame freshman coach in 1958 and is concluding his third year on the job. 
Devore has coached college ball at Fordham, Providence, Holy Cross, NYU, Dayton, St. Bonaventure and here. He was head coach of the Fighting Irish in 1945 and compiled an impressive 7-2-1 record. Devore has also coached profes­sionally with the Philadelphia Eagles and the Green Bay Packers. 
Devore is entmsted with the job of teaching high school flashes how to be­come successful college players. Another big task he undertakes is the recmiting of the high school standouts. 
43 

STUDENT MANAGERS . . 
Credit For a Job Well Done 
There is a great amount of prestige connected with the job of Head Foot­ball Manager for the University of Notre Dame. Each year the Head Foot­ball Manager is a senior student at the University. The Notre Dame Student Manager's Association is unique in that the Head Manager is chosen each year not by the coaching staff, nor by the administration, but by the other man­agers themselves. Thus, the job is not only selective, but also very competitive. 
Freshmen students, interested in be­coming managers, with the ultimate goal of being designated Head Manager in their senior year are accepted on the staflF. About 20 or 30 first-year stu­dents become freshmen managers each fall. The tasks of the freshmen are of the lowliest type, and consist of the menial chores that are unappealing to the upperclass managers, but neverthe­less must be done. The freshmen wox'k out a schedule among themselves, and usually work two or three days a week during the season, about three to five hours per practice session. At the end of the season the freshmen student man­agers are awarded the Freshman numeral, the same award that all fresh­men athletes receive. 
All of the managers are allowed to continue into their sophomore year, but the number usually drops to about fif­teen. By their sophomore year the boys have a little more incentive, as each of them is hoping for the Head Manager's job in his senior year. 
JOE KELLY 
Associate football manager 

by TOM WALSH 
BOB McCUTCHAN 
Head football manager 
The sophomore's work is about the same as the freshman's, except that he has a little more responsibility, puts in a little more work each week and is allowed to work at the home games on Saturday. 
The end of the sophomore year is very impoi-tant to the prospective managers, as the juniors select the top ten sopho­more managei-s, and chose them to be carried over into their junior year at the University. 
The junior managers are awarded a Varsity numei-al at the end of the year, are guaranteed a scholarship for their senior yeai-, and are guaranteed an executive position on the managerial staff in their senior year. Every junior manager works at each home game, and each junior gets to make one of the football trips to an opposing school. The juniors have considerably more respon­sibility, do not do as many menial tasks and have as one of their tasks the handling and packing all the varsity equipment. 
The graduating seniors, at the end of the season compile a lating of ten juniors and assign the highest po­sitions to them on the basis of merit. 
The Head Football Managership is assigned to the top ranked junior, and the next ranking juniors usually take the supporting football managerial jobs, of which there are two. The Head Foot­ball Manager has $800 deducted from. his tuition, and the other two managers are allowed a $600 deduction. 
The three senior managers make all the away trips. Each senior manager has a great amount of responsibility, but has shown in previous years that he is capable of assuming this responsi­bility. The senior managers will turn over their jobs to their successors before spring practice of their last year at Notre Dame. 
Bob McCutchan, a senior Commerce "S: major from Brooklyn, N. Y., is this year's Head Football Manager. Bob has a great amount of responsibility in his job, which is one mainly of supervision. McCutchan has to plan all of the team trips, take care of transpoi'tation, food, and rooming facilities. He is the man the coaches confer with, and is the gen­ei-al supei-visor of all the managers. 
Joe Kelly, a senior Commerce major from Victoria, Texas, is the office and personnel manager. Kelly has to run the office, located in the Fieldhouse, and take care of all the paperwork such as arranging for class cuts, training;^ table meals, hotel registration, the pre-J game meal, and signing the players out %] of their halls for away games. Kelly isr also takes care of the player's substi- 1. tution time sheet during the games. m-
Kieran Kealy, an AB senior from g. ':1 Piedmont, California, is the equipment manager. Kealy must take care of uni­form allotment, fitting and maintenance. One of his biggest headaches is compil­ing the weekly inventory of equipment taken on trips. Kealy usually works from four to five hours daily during the season, as do the other Senior Football Managers. 
KIERAN KEALY 
Associate football manager 
The Scholastic 
Casualty List 

For the second consecutive year, Notre Dame's football team was devastated by the injury jinx. During the past season, there were key injuries at eveiy position in the lineup and, at one position, full­back, the casualties necessitated the use 
j^ '."jwof nine different players at different 
*._ ^times. In all, 38 players were prevented from playing at least one game due to ailments of various sorts. 
Staggering loss. Perhaps the most staggering loss came in the second game of the season. Red Mack, who had just recovered from a knee operation on one of his legs, this time injured his other I when he went high into the air ti-ying \ to intercept a Boilennaker pass. Mack ^^later underwent sui-gery for the knee '"injury and, as a result, was lost to the team for the remainder of the season. 
Another key injuiy took place in that same Purdue game. End John Powers, one of the most improved players on the team during the first two games, also injured his leg and wasn't able to play for the rest of the schedule. 
Gerry Gray, the leading ground gainer . for the Irish in 1959, also suffei-ed a IVserious injury. Gray, whose back had f been ailing him throughout the fall, 
was foi'ced to leave school and may 
never be able to play football again. 
1 Center casualties. Tom Hecomovich, 'J Notre Dame's talented junior center, 3 was also lost for the season due to a I pinched nei-ve he sustained in an early 
(
game this season. One of Hecomovich's \ chief competitors at the beginning of i^^fall practice, Dave Hurd, didn't see any 
/^action this year because his leg ti'ouble did not respond to treatment. 
Thus, the center position was quite crippled and it was left up to Junior Ed Hoerster and Senior John Linehan to perform the duties for most of the games. 
i. Halfback Eay Ratkowski was another 4^ valuable man who had to sit on the 
•fe^ bench most of the season because of a 
\ ' ^casualty. Ratkowski suffered a bniised hip early in the fall and never fully recovei-ed. Ratkowski's loss was espe­cially significant because great perform­ances were expected of him this year after his play in the Old Timers game last spring. 
Captain Myron Pottios was another g who couldn't escape the jinx. Although I Pottios played in all the games, it wasn't !=• until midway through the season that 0 Sghe could gain his tme effectiveness. 
Defensive back Clay Schulz was an 
1 early casualty and lack of his presence in the lineup in the first games seriously weakened the Notre Dame pass defense. Schulz regained his defensive skills about midway in the season and from there on, the Irish pass defense was much more effective. 
Other outstanding players such as Dan Griffith, Marshall Reilly, George Stratts and Leo Seller were forced to 
t 
December 2, 1960 
sit out almost the entire campaign be­cause of miseries of a more serious na­ture. 
Many names. The names O'Hara, Sefcik, Caito, Clark, Henneghan, Naab, Scarpitto, Perkowski, Gargiulo, Dabiero, Bai-ber, Viola, Augustine, Buoniconti, DePola, Koreck, Bill, Burke, CoroUo, Williams, CuUen and Sherlock also adorned the casualty list at one time or another during the season. 
An off-and-on injuiy was the type suffered by outstanding sophomore full­back Mike Lind. Lind was able to play in several games during the season but his leg caused him constant trouble. Plajdng in one game and then having to sit out the next week's contest ham­pered Lind's hopes for a fine season. 
Many names which aren't familiar to Notre Dame supporters, but yet are fine football prospects, wex*e hampered by the injuiy jinx. Bob Lehmann, an out­standing sophomore guard prospect, never really had a chance to put on a Notre Dame jersey as he injured his leg early in the fall. Nor did prospects such as Dennis Phillips and Bob Ward— both sustained season-long injuries. 
Range of injuries. The injuries rang­ed from the neck trouble of Hecomovich to the toe troubles of Pottios and Stratts. Pottios sprained his, while Sti-atts, in a typical display of Irish ill-luck, shot himself in the toe during a summer hunting trip. 
The House that Rockne Built 
(Continued from page 34) 

The 1930 Irish went on to become National Champions defeating such powers as Carnegie Tech, Pittsbui:gh, Ai-my and Southern California. The squad has been called by many better than "Rock's" 1924 team consisting of the four horsemen and seven mules. 
One feature that makes the stadium one of the best in the country is that there are no posts, light towers or tele­phone poles to obstruct anyone's vision of the action on the field. Another ad­vantage is that the stadium doesn't have a track mnning ai-ound the playing field. This brings the action much closer to the fans. 
Stadium personnel for each game amounts to nearly 800 persons. Policing eveiy game are state and local officers and private detectives. 
The press box, glass-enclosed on the west side of the stmcture, rises 60 feet above the gi-ound. There are facilities, considered among the best in the coun­tiy, for 400 widters, telegraphers, an­nouncers and cameramen. 
From that first game in 1930, Rockne's last year, to the last game of this year, many great players have displayed their talents for the Irish in the stadium. Names like Shakespeare, Ber­telli, Lujack, Hart, Lattner, Guglielmi, Hoi-nung, Pietrosante, Stickles and Izo have made the stadium rock with cheers. 
THE SEED OF FAITH 
HAS BEEN PLANTED BY A HOLY 
CROSS MISSIONARY IN: 
• AFRICA 
• INDIA 
• SOUTH AMERICA 
WILL YOU HELP NOURISH IT? 
ALL PROFITS FROM CHRISTMAS CARD SALES GO TO HOLY CROSS MISSIONARIES 
TRADITIONAL NATIVITY  21  CARDS—$1.00  
MODERN RELIGIOUS  15  CARDS—$1.00  
LITURGICAL ASSORTMENT  16 CARDS—$1.00  

Cards Placed in Halls Dec. 11-18 
Notre Dome Miniatures for Your Sweetheart 
DIAMOND OVAL 

CHRISTMAS 1960 
Miniature Notre Dame rings ore available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to shore the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the ofRcial ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bonds to wear with the miniatures con be especially contoured to fit as on ensemble. These plain and contoured bonds ore illustrated above. 
• * • 
PRICE LIST—NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS—1960-61 
All rings ore in durable 10K Gold 
Block Onyx $ 17.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 All-diamond cluster _ .._ $165.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and bock 19.00 
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, 
Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 
synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00 
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and bock 19.00 
WEDDING BANDS 
Synthetic Sapphire, dork blue 19.00 Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular $ 8.00 No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour 9.00 Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular 11.00 No. 2, faceted top and bock _ 19.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
ttini Size For Measuring Finger 
34567891011 
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Noire Dame, Indiana 
The Scholastic 

• 
1961 SCHEDULE 
Sept. 30—Oklahoma at Notre Dame 
Coach Bud Wilkinson's Sooners will be heading into South Bend with high hopes of erasing the sting of this year's dismal record. Tom Cox and Ron Payne are but a few of the many returning vet­erans. 
<^ct. 7—Purdue at Lafayette 
Quarterbacks Bernie Allen and Maury Guttman depart as does explosive Willie Jones, a fullback. Tom Yakubowski, an­other fine fullback, returns, and Coach Jack Mollenkopf will mould his offense around him and a good line. 
Oct. 14—^Southern Cal at Notre Dame 
h 
The Trojans will be heavily hit by June graduations. Such outstanding linemen as Mike and Marlin McKeever and Dan Ficca are leaving. Coach Mc­
Kay will build his team around quarter­back Nelson, fullback Tobin and center Morgan. 
Oct. 21—Michigan State at East Lansing 
Halfback Gary Ballman and center Dave Manders will be Coach Duffy Daugherty's chief sources of consolation for the loss of Herb Adderly and quar­terback Tom Wilson. Once again, the Spartans will be very hard to beat. 
ll 
Oct. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Dick Thornton, granted an extra year's playing time because of an injury, may decide to turn pro. His return would be a great boost to the Wildcats. Coach Parseghian faces several line and back­field problems. 
Nov. 4—Navy at Notre Dame 
The magnificent Joe Bellino will be gone. Adding to the backfield woes is the graduation of Joe Matalavage and Hal Spooner. Coach Wayne Hardin will rely heavily upon linemen such as Hewitt, Von Sydow, Graham and Mather but a new backfield is a prob­lem. 
Nov. 11—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Two thirds of the C Boys' trio return in the persons of Fred Cox and Bob Cle­mens. Despite the loss of AU-American Mike Ditka, Coach Michelosen will have a fierce line returning, headed by Larry Vignali and Andy Kuzneski. 
Nov. 18—^Syracuse at Notre Dame 
Since a guy named Ernie Davis will still be around next year, the Orangemen will be good. Fullback Art Baker and end Fred Mautino furnish Ben Schwartz­walder with a few headaches by their graduation. 
Nov. 25—Iowa at Iowa City 
The Hawkeyes will be loaded. Coach Jerry Bums inherits from Forest Eva­shevski a backfield composed of Wilbum Hollis, Joe Williams, Larry Ferguson and Sammy Harris. This quartet will oper­ate behind a big mobile line. 
Dec. 2—Duke at Durham 
The Blue Devils of Coach Bill Murray lose several top ballplayers including end Tee Moorman. Swift halfbacks Joel Harrington and Jack Wilson should make Duke formidable once again. 
Traver Lind 
Prosipedjs Fur a Cineback 
The year 1960 proved one of heart­break and misfortune for the football forces of Notre Dame. Once again the Irish must have led the nation in in­juries. At various times during the sea­son, eight boys were tried at fullback. Almost every one of them came up with an injuiy. Red Mack, John Powers and Tom Hecomovich are but a few of the key perfonners who were stmck by crippling injuries. 
What will 1961 bring? No one can accurately answer that question, but it most cei-tainly will have to bring im­provement. The list of returning vet­erans is long; the list of departing graduates is short. 
At quai"terback, a spot which gave Coach Joe Kuharich many problems this season, four experienced performers re­turn. Many of the quarterback problems this year stemmed from lack of ex­perience. Both Sophomore Daiyle La­monica and Junior George HaflFner show­ed improvement as the season progi-ess­ed. Sophomore Norb Rascher also returns as does junior defensive specialist Clay Schulz. Jack Castin, mainly a defensive perfonner, is the lone important quar­terback loss. 
Despite the departure of Bob Scai-­pitto, Ray Ratkowski and Mack, the halfback position should be loaded with talent. Juniors Geoi-ge Sefcik, Angelo 
GEORGE SEFCIK 
Irish rushing ace 
Dabiero and Tom Liggio together with sophomores Ed Rutkowski, Frank Minik, Leo Caito, Chuck O'Hara and the un­tried Denny Phillips will provide plenty of depth. Dabiero and Sefcik frequently starred for the 1960 club while Phillips was injured. 
At fullback many of this season's horde of perfoiinex-s return. Juniors Dick 
Bfll Haffner 

Naab and Joe Perkowski, and Sopho­mores Joe Maxwell, Mike Lind and Bill AheiTi all held the fii*st string spot at one time or another during the season. Joining the ranks of alumni will be Bill Henneghan and Frank Gargiulo. The status of injured Gerry Gray isn't known at present. Gray, the 1959 team's leading rusher was forced to drop out of school because of a back injury. His return would give the squad a big boost. 
Heading the returning end group will be Junior Les Traver. He will be joined by Sophomores Jim Sherlock, Brian Bon­lac, Dennis Murphy and Leo Seller. Juniors Max Bumell and the injured defensive standout, John Powers, will also be back. 
Bob Pietrzak and Bob Koreck will be the only men graduating from the tackle ranks. Joe CaroUo, Roger Wilke, Bob Bill and George Williams will be around for their final season. Sophomore Ed Burke, a frequent starter, is expected to be outstanding. 
Junior Nick Buoniconti, a fine line­backer, heads the list of 1961. gusirds. Another excellent linebacker. Captain Mo Pottios, is the chief loss here. Junior Norb Roy and Sophomore Nick DePoia should be standouts next year. Juniors Mike Magnotta and Frank Grau, plus' injured Sophomore Bob Lehmann will add depth. 
Late season discovery Jdin Linehan is the sole graduating pivotman. S<qih Ed Hoerster and Juniors Tom Hectnoo­vich and Gene Viola will handle this, job in 1961. —Bob Chiappiiidli 
December 2, 1960 
IpSfe 

This is the giant B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common writh the first war-galleys of ancient Egypt... and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it. 
For certain j'oung men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards — as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force. 
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26}4—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successsful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieu­tenant .. . and the coveted Navigator wings. 
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon. 
NAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. 24SCM01 1 
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C. 
I am between 19 and 26K, a citizen of the U. S. and a high school graduate with ^years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Air Force Aviation Cadet program. 
j Stmt. 
CH|-.CaMtr_ .State. 
There's a place for tomorrow's leaders on the Aerospace Team, 
U.S. Air Force 
4S The Scholastic 
Card Section Revived By Sophomore Class 
An impoi-tant addition to the halftime activities was provided this season for spectators at Notre Dame football games. For the first time in fifteen 
^ years, card stunts were performed at ^^ome football contests. 
The card stunt organization was be­gun last January by members of the present Sophomore Class and sponsored by the Student Government. 
The stunt committee received addi­tional information from universities across the country to learn the manner in which to begin such a program. 
i Stunt committee. A committee of 30 \ men was responsible for the stunt de­.%«sign, the instruction card preparation '• and the stunt execution. Stunt design was prepared two weeks preceding each 
home game. 
After the stunts were approved, the instruction cards were then prepared for the game. These instruction cards were small in size and just stated the color to be held by the students for each stunt. Before the game, one of these cards was attached to eveiy seat in the 
^.rooting section 
The stunts were called by number from the playing field, synchronizing the action with the music of the band. A poster replica of each stunt to be per­formed was held up on the field to en­able those in the section to see what de­sign they were perfonning. 
An interesting sidelight is the fact that there was no practice by the rooting section for the stunts. Thus, there was need for extensive detailed preparation land complete cooperation, leaving no room for error. 
Purdue theme. At the Purdue game this year, the theme for the band and card section was a circus party. The stunt section depicted such things as a clown and circus tent. 
The halftime activities for the Michi­gan State game saluted the famous American composer Harold Arlen with 
NICOLA'S 
Cracker Crust Pizza 
CE 4-6688 

Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU 
Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. 
on the hour. 
Restaurant in back at 
607 No. Michigan 

such songs as "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" and "That Old Black Magic." Stunts illustrating a rainbow and pot of gold, black hat with a rabbit and others were performed in conjunction with the band. 
During the Pittsburgh game, a polit­ical theme was presented with the stunt section spelling out "Dick," "Jack" and "Vote." These designs were independent of the band as the band gave only a limited show. 
The Iowa Hawkeyes were honored with halftime stunts and a band show following the theme of the Broadway play "Music Man." The Notre Dame 
R.O.T.C. units were also saluted by the 
card section at this game. —Tom Haidinger 
Seniors 
(Continued from page 39) 

Ratkowski had status as regulars during the 1960 campaign. 
Dave Hurd, another senior, could not play because of an old knee injury which didn't respond to treatment. Hurd utilized his time and talent to good ad­vantage as he assisted Coach Hugh De­vore in instmcting the Freshman Team. 
The 1960 seniors did not end their college careers with a winning record. Yet, their contribution was just as im­portant. For this group leaves, know­ing that they have done their best in providing sound leadership for the younger players who will play on the team in the years to come. 
HAVE MORE HOLIDAY 
TIME AT HOME... HAVE MORE FUN GETTING THERE... FLY UNITED AIR LINES 
Be home sooner .. . be home longer. Fly home for the holidays on a United DC-8 or 720 Jet Mainliner®. 
Even if home is all the way across the country, it's only a few hours away on a United Jet. You'll like the convenience of United's schedules—United flies the most jets and serves the most cities by jet. And you're treated with extra care all the way whether you travel de luxe Red Carpet or economical Custom Coach. 
If this is your year for a "Sunshine Holi­day," consider Hawaii. There's time enough to enjoy the fun of the Islands when you go there on a United Jet. For reservations home or in­formation on "Sunshine Holidays," see a travel agent or call any United Air Lines ofl&ce. 
THE EXTRA CARE LINE 
\, 
December 2, 1960 
•^'ItWTURBOW 
VpPTOMITIUlT 
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED 
CONTACT LENSES 
INQUIRIES INVITED 
EYE EXAMINATION 
OUVEH HOTEL 207 W. Washington—Phone CE 4-5777 

FEBBO'S 
CE 3-0578 
• 224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Famous for 
Pizza, Spa^ietti and Ravioli 
ARMY-NAVY 
AIR FORCE 
S / Insignios 
MILITARY SUPPLIES 
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES 
SPECIAL—A Used Alpacea Lined Parka—Only $7.95 YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND 

Tried Regular Filter Xried Cigarettes? other Menthol Cigarettes? 
NOW! Come Up...AU The Way Up to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL! 
When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette— gives you real Menthol Magic! 
UwdvA^ J^^J«AJ^^i-**VA<U"A ^ ^ 
ei9«0 . IROWN K WillMMSON TOIACCO CORPORATION THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOIACCO PRODUCTS 
The Scholastic 

^sf$S^W^!^^^, 
IDEAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS 
Twin MasazinesI 
Disfinef . . . buf related 
CATHOLIC BOY CATHOLIC MISS 
Published at Nafre Dame by the Haly Cross Faf hers 
48 
EACH MAGAZINE pages chock full of sports, 
adventure, comics, stories, hobbies and Catholic inspiration. 
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.0 0 
,• 
-^And here are your handy subscription forms: 
CATHOLIC BOY D 1 year, $3.00 n 2 years, $5.50 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
D 3 years, $7.50 CATHOLIC MISS n 1 year, $3.00 n 2 years, $5.50 
Notre Dame, Indiana Dear Fathers: D 3 years, $7.50 
^ 
Please send CATHOLIC BOY to: Dear Fathers: Please send CATHOLIC MISS to: 
Name Street and Number 
Name City Zone State Street and Number City Zone State 
• Send Gift card to read from: • Send Gift card to read from: 
Your Name Your Address Your Name Your Address 
'%'' 
•msMm 

r.v 
II 

'innl refreshes your taste air-softens''every puff 
',y^^.^ 
i<^ 

-f»'.' 
^^'^^^^ 

i-:^-­
^' rv 

., ' • menthol fresh ;-f •rich tobacco taste 
• modern filter, too 
_--.,._,^--vlU/-/^^;^^ ' every time you smoke. Just as a perfect day in May gives you both bright sunshine and cool shade, soa Salem gives you both rich tobacco to taste and cool softness to refresh you. Salem's special High Porosity paper "air-softens" every puff. Try Salem. It's the rich-tasting smoke v^^ith springtime softness. Salem refreshes your taste. 
Created by R J Reynolds Tobacco Company 






