'*«*^" ^ j|ig'|^ >.''Viiii»'-w^^-^^Mi^'^'^*«-#i^ 
<^. <^'>? , iS^ 
:|V 
•"^ . ••jta,' 1 
;.jda^i 
iMi^:*::^^. 
'^^^rUfTJ-^L^. 
•Mtur'-f*** 
"*' ••jti\--S. .' 

IM -^c 
.^^SK:? 
•=Jt^.-/ 
.4^ *! 
iVio lAKy^djUi ^jiShrt /moUm^ ant ^jhyckv^ ix) lA/M^'fam^i 


tastes good—like a cigarette should! •f 
" J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON.SALEM N C 
IflETER! 
Filters so effectively...ye^ doesn't flatten the flavor 1 ! 
:v. • New, king-size Winston is the filter ciga­Vi^i jciSSr Si s rette real smokers will enjoy! Winston's 
DiRAW so EASILY!: /^^l^ 
K got rc((l flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. 
•-^t Along with finer flavor. Winston also brings you a finer filter. The Winston filter is unique, it's different, it works .so effectively 
— yet doesn't flatten the flavor. Winstons 

ETNGSiZE, 
are king-size for extra filtering action . . . easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons! 



SMOM. •'^INSTOM -fciiP,-QjOAii-dnrnJiMq ^e/i Qkiaiidti
t 


NOTRE DAME'S SPLIT-T WAITS FOR THE CALL 
THE SEASON IN REVIEW—TEN BIG GAMES 
*Greenshit ts Rope the Longhorns^ 21-0 
By ERWIN ALFONSUS 

Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 2:')—Notre Dame successfully ojiened its 19.")4 sea­son under their new head coach Terry Brennan by jjainin.n a 21-0 victory over the stubborn Texas Lon.yhorns. Some 
^57,594 Notre Dame Stadium fans looked on as the Irish handed the Texans their first shutout since 1!)4(). 
Quarterback Ralph Guprlielmi scored two touchdowns and jiassed for a tliird. and also made tb.ree fancy pass inter­ceptions. Fumbles hurt the "'ame Lon.u^­hoi-ns considerably, as they twice fum­bled the ball away inside the Notie Dame ten v%-hen they were still in ccni­tention. 
A The Long-horns threatened early when they moved the openino- kickoff to the Irish seven in four jilays. Delano Womack scam))ered So yards around rig-ht end to the ND 33, and Chai-ley Brewer's iiass to Howaid JMoon was ruled comi)lete on the Irish seven through pass interference by Guglielmi. However, on the next play Brewer fum­bled, and Frank Varrichione recovered the ball for Notre Dame on their own eleven. 
^ After three futile thrusts at the Texas 
"line, halfback Jim Morse punted out of bounds for Notre Dame on the Irish 37. the ball traveling: only IS yards. The Longhorn offense bog-ged down, however, as Womack and Bill Long failed to gain through the line, and a Brewer to Billy Quinn pass gained only three yards. 
It Was a Big Premiere 

Long punted out of boiuuls on the Notre Dame 17. 
Texas was knocking at the Irish door ag-ain late in the first period, but Gug:­lielnii snatched a Brewer to Moon aerial on the Notre Dame 21 to halt the threat. Then early in the second pei-iod 
•'Gug" intercei)ted a Dick Miller toss on his own 19, and scami)ered 42 yards down the sidelines to Texas' 39. Don Schaefer blasted through the Longhorn line for 16 yards, and three plays later 
Shannon Moves Out To Easily Snare A Guglielmi Pass And Hs 
Guglielmi to.5sed one to Dan Shannon, who raced into rhe end zone unmolested on a 19-yard scoring play. Schaefer added the first of his three extra jjoints. 
The Irish made it 14-0 in the third ])eriod with a 79-yard march in ten plays. Buck Lansford of Texas kicked off to IMors", who returned from the two to the Iiish 21. Gug-lielmi jiassed to ]\Iorse f )r a first dov/n on the 40. r.Iorse and Schaefer carried for four, and "Gug" passed to Joe Hea}) on the Longhorn -V-), and he carried to the 18. After ilorse, Guglielmi, and Heap had moved the ball to the one, "Gug" went otf tackle for the score. 
Texas threatened again in the third period after Hornung punted to Chet Simcik on the ND 39. Miller [)icked up four yai-f!s and Don Maroney nine for a first down rn the 2(). Miller and Ma­roney combined again for five yards, and Simcik picked up a first down on the eight. Then iMaroney slas'-:ed to the fi%-e, only to fumble and have Eay Lemek recover for the Irish on the six. 
In the final jieriod Schaefer punted to Maroney, who signaled for a fair catch, but fumbled, and Varrichione recovered for ND on the Irish 48. Guglielmi liassed to Morse, who carried to a first down on the Texas 2(J. Schaefer ran off tackle for 23 yards to the Texas three, and Guglielmi ran around left end for the TD. Schaefer converted, and the Irish led, 21-0. 
 First 1954 Touchdown 
=» ^ t-^ 
_J^% 
^^. 
M 
.,,--?sV-.Jp'^^3g^^j*i:^ 

Purdue in Upset Victory, 27-14« 
By DAVE DAVIN 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 2—An upset-minded group of Purdue Boilermakers cut short a Notre Dame winning streak this afternoon at 13 games, 27-14. 
Len Dawson, six feet of sophomore quarterback, passed and kicked the Ii-ish right out of their own stadium before some 58,000 open-mouthed spectators. Purdue couldn't seem to make many costly mistakes this afternoon and as a result, young Ii-ish mentor Terry Brennan, suffered his first collegiate defeat. 
Irish Rally in Third Quarter 
The Fighting Irish battled right up to the final gun, but a stubborn Purdue line filled most of the holes of the Irish T attack with more defenders than the backs could cope with. Notre Dame came back strongly in the third quarter to tie the score at 14-14. But it was Dawson again who found his receivers dashing through the Irish secondary ready and \villing for anything he could toss. Pei'haps the heart-breaker came when big Lamar Lundy, a 6' 7" sophomore end, hauled in a Dawson pass and out-ran two ND defenders for 73 yards and the third Purdue touchdown. 
Notre Dame received the opening kick­off on their own 34 yard stripe. On the first play a fumble gave the visitors from East Lafayette the ball. Junior Boilermaker fullback Bill Mui-akowski drove for eight yai-ds to the Irish 26. Dawson's first pass was good for 20 yards and Purdue had a first down on the six yard line. Again Dawson threw and end John Kerr took it in the end 

Guglielmi Moves Wide Behind 
m^^f^^^^^Mi^ 
• ^ : r^-^ • 
••V^teJ! 
zone for the first tally. Dawson kicked the first point and Purdue had a 7-0 lead with only 3:08 gone. 
Notre Dame's ground attack was stifled for three plays at their own 20. Don Schaefer punted to the 41. Then, another Dawson aerial, this time to halfback Rex Brock made the score Purdue 13; Notre Dame 0. Dawson's kick was good. 
Purdue couldn't score in the second period, but Notre Dame did twice. A Guglielmi pass was intercepted by DaAv­son on his own 49. He directed the Boilermakers attack to the Notre Dame five, but Jackie Lee stopped the show by recovering Murakowski's fumble on the Irish one. Two Purdue fumbles put the Irish on the Purdue 19 yard line. Again the visiting defense stiffened and Purdue took over on the 19. Phil Ehrman, who replaced Murakowski, gained eleven yards in two carries and quarterback Froncie Gutman passed to Brock for five more. Notre Dame held and Brock kicked to the Purdue 49. A running play and two incomplete passes forced the Irish to kick to the Boiler­maker 16. 
Boilermakers Hit for Safety 
The Purdue running attack sputtered and stalled at their own 34 yard line. Brock dropped back to kick but center Don Fife passed the ball over Brock's head into the Purdue end zone. Sam Palumbo and Ray Lemek nailed Brock 

trying  to  scurry out  of  the  end  zone  
for  a  safety.  But  Purdue  still  led,  
14-2.  

 Blocking Schaefer 
On the kick-off, sophomore quarter­back Paul Hornung ran the ball 59 yards to the Purdue one. Nick Raich punched through for the first Irish touchdown. Hornung missed the point and the score at half time was Purdue 
m

14; Notre Dame 8. V 
The first series of plays in the second half resulted in another Irish TD. Notre Dame began to play real Notre Dame football, grinding out small, valu­able chunks of yardage. Senior Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi directed the running attack and passed his team to the Purdue 43. He then flipped a long one to Co-capt. Dan Shannon who was dragged do^\'n a scant two yards ^ from pay dirt. Don Schaefer exploded" aci-oss for the six-pointer but missed the conversion. The game took on a new light -with the score knotted at 14—all. 
Lundy Breaks Game Wide Open 
On the first play after the kick-off, Dawson hit Lundy with a ten yard pass on the Purdue 37 and he went the rest of the way. Again Dawson's toe was true and Purdue had jumped into the A lead, 21-14, never to go behind again. 
Purdue used six running plays and a ten-yard pass to put the ball on the Notre Dame 38-yard line. With Dawson at the reins, he threw a five yard screen pass to Murakowski on the 33 and he scampered the remaining distance to score. Dawson missed the point for the first time, but Purdue didn't really need it. Final score: Purdue, 27; Notre Dame, 14. A 
 Cracks Into Stone Wall 
. .^^ 
The Scholastic 

Witucki Barrels Up The Middle In Fourth Quarter 
Irish Shutout 
By BOB 

Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 9—Notre Dame's Fighting Irish drove over the ground Aand through the airways this afternoon to batter the hapless Pitt Panthers, 33­
0. It was the second victory in three starts for the Irish this season. 
The game, played before a capacity 62,000 fans, got off to a slow start in the first quarter. Notre Dame's Don Schaefer kicked off and Pitt's Henry Ford returned the ball to the Pitt 26. A stonewall Irish defense held the Pan­thers, and Schmitt punted to Notre 
0 Dame's Joe Heap who brought the pig­skin to the Irish 43. 
Notre Dame's heavy-duty backs began to move. Reynolds and Heap dented the Pitt forward wall for a firet down on the Panther 47. Schaefer and quar­terback Guglielmi sliced for six yards. Heap passed to Reynolds who fought his way down to the 28. But the offense stalled. Three ground thi-usts were stopped just short of a first down. Guglielmi's pass failed and Pitt took 
^ over. 
One ND Drive Fails 
After Pitt failed to gain, Paul Rey­nolds took the resulting punt and ran it back to the Notre Dame 48. Again Notre Dame began to chop away at the Pitt line. Heap smashed to the Pitt 38 in two running plays. Sophomore Dean Studer and Heap combined for another first down on the Panther 25. 
0 December 10, 1954 

Pitt^ 33-0 

 RUHL 
But the Pitt line stiffened, and the Irish couldn't move on three plays. Guglielmi's pass once more failed. 
Tom Carey took over the quarterback reins from Guglielmi and engineered the first Irish score. Carey's pitch-out to soph halfback Sherrill Sipes misfired and Sipes lost ground to the 24. Carey's pass to Heap was no good. On fourth down Carey lofted a long aerial to Sipes who caught it in the end zone for the TD. Hornung's kick was ^vide. ND, 6; Pitt, 0. 
Palumbo Recovers Fumble 
Pitt's offense, completely stifled up to this point, made its bid for a touchdown. After an incompleted pass and a penalty stopped a bid for a first down, Salva­terra faked a pass and swung wide to his left, getting a first down on the Irish 29. Salvaterra pitched to Ford in the end zone, but a penalty nullified the touchdown. The Irish held on three plays and took possession on the 28. 
Notre Dame was on its way to another 

touchdo\vn when Sam Palumbo re­covered a fumble. Guglielmi thi-ew to Heap who fell to the Panther 24. Schae­fer pushed to the 20. Guglielmi kept the ball on the option play and raced to the 4. Studer rammed straight ahead to the 1. Guglielmi sneaked over for the touchdown. Schaefer's kick was good. ND, 13; Pitt, 0. 
Third-quarter action saw the Irish capitalize on another Pitt fumble to score. Receiving the kick off, the Irish had their sights set on another land score. Studer brought the ball to the Irish 20 on the kick off; Guglielmi got a first down on the 23. Heap skirted end for another first down on the 44. Studer, Schaefer and Heap brought the ball to the Pitt 41. Salvatena broke up the bid with an interception, but fumbled the ball back to the Irish. 

The Irish battering rams couldn't be stopped this time. Studer carried to the twelve, but the Irish were pushed back to the 17 for off-sides. Heap and Schaefer got a first down on the five. Studer took Guglielmi's hand off and 
skirted  Pitt's right  end  for  the  touch­ 
down.  Schaefer made th e PAT.  Score:  
ND, 20; Pitt, 0.  

Homung Drives Over 
The fourth period saw the Irish score twice. Midway in the period, Nick Raich recovered a Pitt fumble on the Panther 
16. Notre Dame was off and running. Heap and Morse drove to the 10. Hor­nung shot over the goal line on a keep-it play. Hornung's kick was no good. Score: ND, 26; Pitt, 0. 
Pittsburgh failed to gain in three plays and punted to Irish halfback Jim Morse, who fumbled and Pitt recovered on the Notre Dame 29. Two running plays were stopped cold by an alert Irish defense. Salvaterra tried the air­ways, but Homung intercepted the pass in the end zone and brought it back to the 22. 
The Irish took over on downs on their own 26. Witucki got a first down on the Irish 41. Morse skirted his own right end to the Pitt 23. Carey passed to Scannell for a first down on the 10. On the last play of the game Carey shot a quick pass to end Jim Munro in the end zone for a touchdown. Morse kicked the exti-a point. Final Score: ND, 33; Pitt, 0. 
Heap Bogs Another 

Irish Squirm Through On Dramatic Kick 
Irish Trip M.S.C., 20-19 
By PAUL 

Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 16—The Fight­ing Irish fell short in their comeback attempt against Purdue two weeks ago on this same turf, but today they had the goods to storm from behind and nip a determined Michigan State eleven on a rain-soaked field, 20-19. The win was a much-needed tonic for the 57,000 home­coming fans. 
A dramatic extra point attempt by Michigan State, with only a minute re­maining, slipped wide of the mark, giving the Irish this long-sought victory. Six Irish regulars slogged their way through the entire 60 minutes. 
The Irish fell behind 13-0 in the first quarter and had to bang their way back into the game in the next two i^eriods. Halfback Joe Heap sparked Notre 
"Gug" Clutches Muddy Boll 

 FULLMER 
Dame's offense with his best running 
day of the year, 110 yards in 22 carries 
and a five-yard average. 
The Irish avenged the three straight 

losses that the Spartans had inflicted 
on Frank Leahy's boys during his tenure 
and gave Coach Terry Brennan his first 
"big" win against an old Notre Dame 
foe. 
Sparions Score First 
Notre Dame elected to kickoff to the 

visitors and State moved the ball relent­
lessly down the field. It took the Spar­
tans only 13 plays and five minutes be-
foi-e Clarence Peaks tore around his left 
end for the score. Fullback Jerry 
Planutis converted and MSC led 7-0. 
Ealph Guglielmi fumbled the ball 

right back to Michigan State on the 
ND 35. Again State did not waste any 
time. This time the airways figured in 
the scoring. Earl Morrall hurled a 
strike to John Lewis who easily beat 
Heap and Dean Studer into the end 
zone to put the underdogs ahead 13-0. 
The aroused Irish partisans roused the Brennan-men into action and ND drove to the State six before Jack Wi­tucki: fumbled. 
A penalty set the Spartans back to their goal and a punt gave the Irish another chance. Heap and Schaefer moved the ball down to the ten. Heap cracked off-tackle to the one and after two unsuccessful sneaks by Guglielmi, Heap dived in for his first TD. Schaefer 
added the placement and the Irish 
trailed 13-7 as the half ended. 
m

Heap stifled another Spartan rally' 
in the third canto when he fell on John Matsock's fumble on the ND eleven. Center Dick Szjnnanski put the damper on another Stater thrust when he in­tercepted a pass on the Michigan State 46. 
Twelve Plays To Score 
It took Guglielmi twelve plays to 

]-egister the second Irish tally. The _^ 
Notre Dame backs slid, skated, and ^ 
rolled through the ever-deepening mud 
as they neared the goal. "Gug" pitched 
out to Heap, who circled right end to 
score from the 16 behind a nifty block 
by Schaefer. Schaefer got up and put 
the Irish ahead, 14-13, with his second 
conversion. 
Guglielmi faced a fourth downi situa­tion and one yard to go at midfield in the early minutes of the fourth quarter. He sent Paul Eeynolds knifing behind^ Frank Varrichione and the Irish had their first and ten. 
Schaefer then wiggled behind Sam Palumbo and Dan Shannon for 30 yards and the day's longest gain. Heap gained three yards to the eight before Guglielmi called the option and Eey­nolds ended up on the scoring end of the lateral. Schaefer's kick this time squirted wide and the Irish led 20-13 with 2:30 remaining. 
A long desperation pass from Morrall ^ to Lewis put the ball on the ND 14 and gave the Spartans a chance to tie things up. Bert Zagers needled his way through the over-anxious Irish on the next play to make the score 20-19. 
Jerry Planutis measured the distance for the kick and the Irish line dug into the slippery muck. The lines tensed, 
Planutis crouched, the ball was Pat Bisceglia sneaked through hurled himself horizontally at and the ball sailed high—and the mark. 
The full house went wild as 
 snapped, a hole,  the ball, ^  wide of 
 the tired 

Irish  trudged  off  the  field  with  their  
third  victory—and  a  sweet  one  it  was.  
Heap Slides Through Tackle  

i 
i i 


BONFIRE, COTILLION, DECORATIONS SPELL HOMECOMING 
"V. 

6LJOf('^ 
1954 Foofball Record 
Won 9, Lost 1 
Notre Dame 21 Texas 0 
Notre Dame 14 Purdue 27 
Notre Dame 33 Pittsburgh 0 
Notre Dame 20 Michigan State ...19 Notre Dame 6 Navy 0 w Notre Dame 42 Pennsylvania 7 Notre Dame 42 North Carolina ....13 Notre Dame 34 Iowa 18 Notre Dame 23 So. California 17 Notre Dame 26 So. Methodist 14 

^^^-p^t^tyA. 
Drav/ings by 
J^/a^y^ yd^^A^'^^M^^ 



ig*j 

-*^j^;-^fev 
/^^, ^»--^ 
K^O^FS. -*^*^'?*•'*'*-' 

/(«^ <^!na*u^K^ 
^ Steve Rebora 
J9 




Sink Middies^ Hopes, 0^0 
By DAVE KILKEARY 
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 81—Notre  Dame  Notre  Dame  allowed  many  choice  
racked  up  their  fouilh  victory  of  the  scoring- opportunities  to  slip by in the  
year befoi-e 60,000 people here today by  first  half.  Failure  to  pick  up  a  few  
out-lasting­  the Navy  6-0  on  the  rain- yards in critical  spots hurt the Irish.  
saturated  turf  of Municipal  Stadium.  The  Navy  took  to  the air  from  the  
I]-5sh  Quarterback  Ealpli  Gug-lielmi,  outset  of the second half.  The Sailoi'S  
flashing­  All-American  form,  threw  a  appeared  to  be  a  different  ball  club  
touchdown  pass  and  recovered  a  Navy  from  the  one that  couldn't  get  stai-ted  
fumble in liis own end zone to personally  in the first  two periods.  Similarly the  
thwart the Sliddie's hope for their  first  Irish looked like they suffered  a  change  
victory  over  a  Notre  Dame  squad  in  too.  The constant battering of the Irish  
ten  years.  at  the Navy defenses lost its djniamite.  
Gradually  it  was  seen  that  the  Irish,  
Guglielmi  Passes  For Score  who had been botliered all day by offside penalties, might be scored upon by  
Guglielmi  i-ifled  a  46-yard  pass  to  Navy's aerial  bombardment.  Morse  Eyes Goalline  and  Victory  
sophomoi'e  halfback  Jim Morse  for the  Middle  quarterback  George  Welsh  
only  score  of the afternoon.  The play  .started  to  hit  end  Ron  Beagle  with  
came  with  striking  suddenness  in  the  alarming regularity. Beagle bird-dogged­ the only  one of the day for the Navy.  
second quartei-.  Bloi-se gathered  in the  ly penetrated the Notre Dame secondary  Midway in the third  period,  Leonard  
ball  on the dead  run  at the Middle 19,  and hauled in pass after  pass from the  Benzi  recovered  a  Schaefer  fumble  on  
rocketed between Navy's Bob Craig and  "hot"  Welsh.  At  the  same  time  the  the  Notre  Dame  15.  Welsh  fired  to  
Dick Guest, and rambled untouched into  Notre Dame pass defense showed  acute  Beagle  and  got  the  ball  to  the  six.  
the end zone with only five minutes  left  signs of  sagging.  Immediately Navy pounded  out  a  first  
of  the  second  quarter.  Fullback  Don  down  on  the  Irish  one.  Quarterback  
Schaefer's try for the point was wide. The 60,000 fans who braved this  Novy  Fumbles  Chance  Away  Welsh was stopped cold on two at­tempted sneaks and then Sam Palumbo  
murky day saw the Notre Dames allow the Middies only si-x offensive plays in the first quarter and superbly dominate the entire first half of the contest. At  Aided by the beautiful pass catching of Beag-le, Navy marched the second half kickoff to the Notre Dame twelve. It was the Middies first excursion into  belted the ball from Craig's hands, as he hammered into the end zone. Gug­lielmi was the Man on the spot for the ^ Irish; he fell on the ball for a touch- 
halftime the 'Irish had nine first dowTis to the Midshipmen's one. They had 114 yards rushing_to 14 and 72 yards passing to onlv six for the Easterners.  Notre Dame territory. However a NaA"^^ offside nullified a Welsh flip to John Weaver on the one and the Irish g-ained possession of the ball. This penalty was  back. This was the play of the day as far as the Irish were concerned. Had Craig not fumbled, it could very well have meant the second Notre Dame loss of the campaign.  

Schaefer Bulls For Shorf Yardage Near Goal Stop Two Late Drives 
The Middies threatened two times in the final quarter but interceptions by ^ Paul Hornung and Guglielmi kept the lock off the door for the Irish. In this stanza Notre Dame made their only long march of the half Avhen Guglielmi hit Heap for 39 yards and Shannon grabbed another good for 16. The drive was lialted, however, at the Navy 17 and the Midshipmen thi-ew the Irish all the way back to the 33 before taking the ball on Aci\yns. 
Navy went to mid-field the last time they had the ball. They lost it Avith only %j 
•56seconds to play as Welsh's pass went out of the hands of Beagle. Beagle played one of his best games of the year, and was a thorn in the side of the Irish all afternoon. 
The victory was Notre Dame's ninth in a row over the Navy. The Midship­men's last Avin heing- here in 1944 by a 32-13 score. It Avas the Irish's fourth win of the campaign as against one loss. 





STUDENT TRIP INVADES EASTERN SEABOARD 
^^???'^^^?^'TS??T^'^9T!^!????'>^f!!?r5!7^l5??!??i^??r?l!^?S?>^^ 
Terry^s Boys Bomb Penn, 42-7 <^ 
By JOE MADfGAN 

Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 6—The Fight­ing Irish fashioned their biggest offensive display of the season today as they routed the Pennsylvania Quakers 42-7 before 61,188 fans in Franklin Feld. 
Quaker suppoi'ters watched Quarter­back Ralph Guglielmi enjoy one of his finest days as he passed for two touch­downs and scored one himself. Besides this, Guglielmi anchored the Irish secon­dary that restricted Penn to 27 yards through the air. 
It was the seventh straight loss for Coach .Steve Sebo's hapless charges, but they succeeded in giving the Ii'ish line its toughest workout of the campaign. Penn backs amassed 224 yards rushing, most of them accumulated in the fii'st half. 
The Quakers started fast and ap­peared to be in command of the situation at the outset. They took Don Schaefer's opening kickoff, and \\ath halfback Walt Hynoski leading the way, marched 68 yai'ds in twelve plays to the Notre Dame twelve. At this point, Guglielmi inter­cepted quarterback Jim Manley's pass in the end zone to bail the Irish out of trouble temporarily. 
Quakers Threaten Again 
Shortly afterwards, the Quakers were knocking on the door again. From their own 47, they mai-ched to the Irish three yard line in six plays. But Hynoski and Manley both missed passes in the end zone. Schaefer batted down the fourth down pass and the Irish took over on their own three. 
After Guglielmi failed to connect with Jim Morse, Schaefer found a hole in the Penn left side and scampered 70 yards to the Penn 26-yard line as the first quarter ended. A few plays later, Gug­lielmi sneaked over from four yards out for the game's first score. Schaefer booted the first of three conversions and .the Irish led 7-0. 
Eay Lemek's timely pass interception set up the second Irish score on the Penn 37. ' Guglielmi hit Joe Heap with a long one on the Penn seven. A fifteen yard penalty moved the ball back to the 22, but Guglielmi pitched to Dan Shan­non for the score. Schaefer again con­verted to give the Irish a 14-0 half­time lead. 
Notre Dame took the second half kick­off and churned up 95 yards in seven plays. Guglielmi capped the scoring thrust by firing an 18-yard aerial to Shannon. Schaefer again kicked the point after touchdown, and with the third period barely past the six minute mark, Notre Dame led 21-0. 
Penn broke into the scoring column on the strength of Stan Chaplin's 45­yard gallop to the Notre Dame 17. Hynoski sped bver from the eleven and Manley converted to make the count 21-7. 
The Irish bounced right back, this time for 75 yards. Guglielmi's 40-yard pass to Morse sparked an off tackle slant from the seven. Paul Homung split the uprights to run the score to 28-7. 
Heap's interception set up the fifth Irish tally, running the ball back 22 yards to the Quaker 22. With the re­serves assuming the reins, Tom Carey pitched out to Dean Studer who rambled the remaining 20 yards to paydirt. Hor­
nung  again  converted  to  stretch  the  
Irish  lead  to  35-7  with  the  fourth  
quarter barely underway.  •(Jl  


Hornung Notches Final TD 
Later on, Hynoski, a brilliant per­former all day, in a losing cause, fumbled on his own 21, and the ever alert Carey recovered. Sherill Sipes got five and Carey kept for 13. Hornung then bucked over for the final score, and added the point. The final score, Notre Dame 42, Penn 7. 
Individually, the Irish showed to great ^' advantage. Guglielmi connected on 13 of 19 tosses for 260 yards. The Irish star completed his last eight in success­ion, enabling him to come wthin one pass of tying a twelve year Notre Dame record of nine in a row set by Angelo Bertelli back in 1942. 
Schaefer also enjoyed his finest of the year. The Irish fullback gained 135 yards in 12 carries, the majority of the yardage coming on his 70-yard first quarter jaunt that set up the game's f first score. 
Nevertheless, the victory was a costly one for the Irish. Center Dick Szyman­ski was rushed to University Hospital in Philadelphia for an emergency opera­tion later in the evening. Szymanski's injui-y was diagnosed as a ruptured spleen, and the star senior was declared out for the year. 
Szymonslci and Varrichione Hit Manley After a Gain Studer Sails Safely Into Paydirt 
The Scholastic 

Morse Begins Long 77-Yord Kickoff Hike 

ND Tops Tar Heels, 42-13 
By PAUL 

Notre Dame, Ind., Nov, 13—The de­cision was never in doubt today, fi-om the moment that Jimmy Morse flashed a scintillating 77-yard opening kickolF return, as the Fighting Irish salted away the sixth in an all-winning series with the North Carolina Tar Heels, 42-13. 
Perhaps it was their determination to present convalescing Dick Szymanski with a sincere get-well gift that prompt­ed the squad to take all the wraps oif a potent offense under a friendly No­vember sun. At any rate, a hefty 213 yards gained via the air complemented by a 185 total on the turf coasted ND to victory over the distraught Tar Heels. 
Ralph Guglielmi sat out the second half after he had uneri-ingly piloted his mates to a comfy four-touchdown margin at the intermission with a combination of uncanny play-calling and seven successes out of twelve tries with his pitching arm. 
Equal Guglielmi's Output 
Tom Carey and Paul Hornung, Gug­lielmi's understudies, then took over where Ralph left off and together they equalled the 21 points registered under the AU-American quarterback's com­mand. 
Morse's initial spurt carried him down to the Tar Heel 22-yard marker where he was overtaken by speedy Don Klo­chak. From there it took a pair of line 
 LoFRENIERE 
smashes, a delayed buck, a pass, a sneak, and a final short crack through tackle by Joe Heap until the Irish made a showing on the scoreboard. 
The rest of the first period was played in Carolina territory, but not until the first minute of the following quarter did the Irish reach pay-dirt again. Heap did the honors for the second time to wind up his day's scoring, after ND had used nine plays in a 50-yard thrust. 
Guglielmi keynoted an 82-yard drive the next time he got his hands on the ball, tossing 42 yards to Heap and another time to Co-Captain Paul Matz who did a joggling act before grabbing the leather for keeps. In twelve scrim­mages, Terry's Terrors had another score, Morse neatly snagging "Gug's" bullet pass in TD territory. Fullback Don Schaefer, besides doing some fine charging into the North Carolina sec­ondaiy during these sustained attacks, toed the three extra boots after the six-pointers. 

Carey Engineers Touchdown 
Then it was Tommy Carey's turn to display his wares as the first-stringers departed. Caz-ey engineered a 75-yard maneuver which featured his pitch to Dean Studer for 47 yards. The pay-ofF was another Carey pass, this time to Jim Muiu"0. Hoi-nung kicked the PAT, 40 seconds before the half ended. 
Hornung generaled the Irish for the next quarter and a half and his passing, running, and defensive work set up the final two ND tallies. Frank Pinn and Jack Witucki bix)ke into the scoring column for the first time in their col­legiate careers to round out an enjoy­able afternoon for Irish partisans. Hor­nung split the goal posts for the added point on each occasion. 
With less than half a quarter to go, the Tar Heels took some consolation by garnering two TD's, the first on a pass from Al Long to Larry Parker, the other on a Doug Farmer-Larry McMulIen airway combination. 
In their successful preliminary to the Iowa game, the Irish put on a gridiron 
exhibition a la 19-54 for 55,410 customers and members of Rnute Rockne's Nation­al Championship undefeated and untied teams of 1929-30, who were introduced during halftime ceremonies. 
Schoefer Slashes OflF-Tackle in Tar Heel Victory 
December 10, 1954 
]VD Clobbers Iowa. 34-18 
By FRED ECKART 
Iowa City, la., Nov. 20—Tumid clouds lifted long enough this bleak Saturday afternoon for the sun to smile down on an inspired Notre Dame football team that revealed to a stadium-stacked crowd of 52,756 a gridiron juggernaut that could do no wrong as it ran and passed to a decisive 34-18 victory over a stunned Iowa eleven. 
Burned in effigj' only the night before by eager Iowa students at the pre-game pep i-ally, the Ii-ish machine, led by Ail-American quarterback Ealph Guglielmi, fullback Don Schaefer, and halfback Joe Heap, amassed a wide statistical advantage. 
Guglielmi himself completed nine of 14 passes for 165 yards. Carey and RejTiolds added 68 on 3 out of 5, bringing total passings to 233 yards. Heap averaged 7.2 yards per carry, garnering 72 from scrimmage in 10 tries. Schaefer gained 96 in 18 tries for a 5.3 average. 
It wasn't until the last quarter surge that brought the two final Hawkeye scores that the lowans could close the statistical gap which saw the Irish far ahead in every department except punt­ing. 
The deception and deadly accurate passing of Guglielmi, the lightning-quick thrusts of Schaefer, the break­away running of Heap all were major factors in accounting for a total of 493 yards rushing and passing that made a jubilant delegation of 179 Senior Trip­pers and some 3,000 Irish TV-A^ewers back at Notre Dame forget the sorrows of last year's stunning 14-14 tie. 
Unable to generate their accustomed 
Irish Crisscross Pattern—Heap 
momentum in the face of the rugged 
Irish forwards, the Hawks had the ball 
for only seven offensive plays in the first 
quartei", netting only eight yards. 
After the Irish threatened in the first 
quartei", going to the Iowa 19 before 
losing the ball on downs. Heap set up 
the initial Notre Dame score, scooting 
43 yards to the Iowa's six. Morse, Schae­
fer, and Guglielmi moved the ball to the 
one-foot line from where Morse cracked 
over for the score. Schaefer converted 
and the Irish led 7 to 0. 
After an exchange of punts, Iowa 
marched to the Irish 39, losing the ball 
on downs as Reichow's passes went 
astray. A Guglielmi to Matz aerial 
brought the Irish back and after a 
holding penalty delay. Shannon brought 
down another "Gug" toss for 20 yards. 
From the Irish 49 Guglielmi and Schae­
fer alternated to bi-ing the pigskin to 
the Iowa 38. Guglielmi threw to Rey­
nolds for 19 yards. Schaefer moved the 
ball to the five and Heap scored in two 
plays. Schaefer again converted, put­
ting Notre Dame in front 14-0. 
Before the fans had hardly seated 
themselves Iowa effectively struck back 
with Breeder going 17 yards from the 
Iowa 40. The next play, Reichow found 
End Frank Gilliam behind the Irish 
secondary on the 20, hit him with a 
pass on the run and he scored un­

touched. Right end Jim Freeman's try 
for point was wide. The score, Notre 
Dame 14 Iowa 6. 
The second half got underway with 
Schaefer kicking off to Sternes who 
returned to the Iowa 32. On the first 
play Broeder banged through the Irish 

 Receives and Morse Watches Kapish Pulls Down TD Pass 
forwards for 18 yards only to fumble 
on the 50 where the Irish began their third touchdown drive. 
In six plays the Irish scored with a 23-yard aerial from Guglielmi to Morse. o However a clipping penalty nullified the score leaving the ball on the 28. Another pass to Shannon for 17 placed the ball on the seven. Three plays put the ball on the three yard line from where Schae­fer knifed through right tackle for the score. Schaefer's kick was good again and the score was 21-6. 
Iowa failed to gain after the kickoff and punted to the Ii-ish 43. After being set back to the 37 on 2 plays and hold­ing penalty, Guglielmi found Matz for €^ 34 through the air and Reynolds for an additional ten. Reynolds and Schaefer alternated to the nine yard line from where Guglielmi passed to Matz who cai-ried two Iowa defenders into the end zone. Schaefer split the uprights for the fourth straight time and the score­board read: Notre Dame 28, Iowa 6. 
Four minutes into the fourth stanza Notre Dame replacements led by rugged little Tom Carey drove from the Iiish e 19 to the Iowa 38 on runs by Reynolds, Hornung and Fitzgerald. On fourth down Cai-ey faded behind excellent pro­tection and pitched a 38-yard pass into the waiting arms of Gene Kapish who waltzed into the end zone untouched. Hornung's kick for the point was blocked. Notre Dame 34, Iowa 6. 
In two plays the Hawks had another score on a 76-yard TD toss from Quarterback Dobrino to Earl Smith who took it on his 40 and raced the remain­«) ing 60 to paydirt. The try for point failed again and the Irish led 34-12. 
Iowa's last score came after a Carey fumble on the Notre Dame 43. Stearnes ran 20 yards and Dobrino passed 14 to Matheson. Stemes cracked across from the nine yard stripe ^vith 4:23 left in the game. The ti-y for point failed and the Irish ran out the game, holding Iowa on the 5. The final score: Notre Dame, 34, Iowa 18. 
24 The Scholastic IS) 
Irish Tacklers Trip Trojan Runner in Mud 



Raity to Beat 
By JOHN 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 27.—Notre 

^ Dame's Fighting Irish had not one but two battles to fight in the Stadium to­day when the University of Southern Califox'nia Trojans renewed one of the longest intersectional football rivalries in the nation. 
Besides a fired-up Rose Bowl squad determined to increase its prestige be­fore squaring off with Ohio State in the New Year's Day classic, the Irish also had to overcome their own niiscues to 
1^-pound out a 23-17 verdict. 
Fumbles, intercepted passes, penalties, passing inaccuracy, and unimpressive kicking plagued the Notre Dame squad during most of the game, and the alert Trojans were quick to take advantage of many of them. 
The Irish hobbled the ball nine times, losing it on four occasions. Two inter­cepted passes and eight penalties helped to stall the Irish attack, and Brennan's charges managed to complete only two 
1^ of nine attempted passes. 
The fifth home sell-out of the season, 56,438, watched the final game of the season in Notre Dame Stadium on a damp, chilly day that saw the sun break thi'ough heavy clouds in the second half. 
A slippery ball and a soggy field softened by several days of wet weather hampered the afternoon's activity. 
Notre Dame's Jim Morse earned the game's top individual honors. Besides a dazzling 72-yard run that brought the 
December 10, 1954 


USC, 23-17 

 GUEGUEN 
Irish from behind for the third and last time near the end of the game, the s'ophomore left half gained 179 yards in 19 carries. 
The Irish rushed for 373 yards in winning their eighth contest in nine starts this season. Coach Jess Hill's Trojans suffered their third loss in eleven games. 
On the first Notre Dame play from scrimmage, Don Schaefer fumbled on the ND 14 to set up the first Trojan score. It took four plays to shove the Irish back to the one-foot line, and Quarterback Jim Contratto did the honors on the next play. Sam Tsagal­akis' boot gave Southern Cal an early 7-0 lead. 
After a penalty-stalled Irish drive, the teams exchanged punts and Notre Dame launched an attack that caiTied to the SC 28. But Guglielmi's passing failed to click, and the Trojans took over. 
After two more exchanges and another Notre Dame fumble. Southern Cal pushed to the Irish 17 where Tsagalakis missed a field goal attempt. On this play, Eay Lemek, first string left guard for Notre Dame was carried from the field with a fracture and torn ligaments in the left knee, an injuiy that ended his 1954 season. 
A Notre Dame scoring drive quickly got into gear. Heap sparked the drive with a 40-yard olF-tackle sprint. With Tom Carey in charge, it took the Irish only five more plays to strike. 
Heap took a pitchout from Carey on the twelve and launched an aerial on the run to Morse, who crossed the goal. Schaefer converted to tie the score. 
Aramis Dandoy, USC's speedy half­back, led a Trojan drive at the beginning of the second half that pushed the Irish back to their 13-yard line. Here the drive stalled, but Tsagalakis sent the Califomians ahead 10-7 with a field goal. 
A 106-yard ground offensive, starting on their own 14, sparked the Irish third quarter play. This time penalties failed to halt the hard-charging Greenshirts, who gi-ound out 20 successive plays in one of the longest sustained drives on record. 
Morse, Guglielmi, Heap, and Schaefer alternated in the see-saw downfield pro­gi'ess. Schaefer plunged ofF-tackle from the two and kicked the extra point to put Noti'e Dame in front for the first time, 14-10, early in the final quarter. 
But the Trojans countered with a quick 62-yard drive ., featuring Con­tratto's passing accuracy. The final aerial was good to End Chuck Griffith for 21 yards and the TD. Ed Fouch convei-ted, and the visitors took a late 17-14 lead. 
Following the kickofF, Heap fumbled to the Trojans, but SC could not keep the ball. The Irish took over on their own 21 ^vith a little over seven minutes remaining. 
After two shoi't gains, Morse, with key blocks by Guglielmi and Schaefer, unleashed his 72-yard TD run alon^ the "West sideline, the longest run of the season for Notre Dame. Schaefer booted the extra point to make it 21-17. 
The Irish got two more points on a safety when Southern Cal took over, and three plays later the final whistle sounded with the Irish on top, 23-17. 
IHeap Throws The Hip 

Terry Finishes First Season on Top 
Irish Tronnee SMIJ, 26-14 
By JOE 
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 4—Millions via nationwide TV were impressed and 75,540 at the Cotton Bowl were amazed as Notre Dame finished the 1954 football season with a decisive 26-14 win over SMU. 
But the score is a liar; it might easily have been 62-14, so soundly did the Irish shellack the Mustangs statistic­ally. Terry Brennan's offense I'olled to 23 first downs to the opponent's seven; his defense yielded an incredible - 34 yards on the ground until the fourth quartei'. The Irish would have amassed over 700 yards had not penalties inter­fered, as it was they totaled 477 yards. Notre Dame was a selfish guest too, they ran twice as many plays and had pos­session of the ball most of the time. The real story is therefore, in the statistics. 
SMU lost the opening flip of the coin and everything else. Notre Dame opened with a 60-yard touchdown drive sparked by Guglielmi's passing and climaxed by a four-yard Heap bolt, but for the first time in 13 consecutive attempts, Schae­fer failed to convert. The junior dyna­mo atoned for this by exploding for 129 yards for the rest of the game. After this 6-0 score, SMU then replied with 
their only identifiable effort—^a 53-yard move that saw Eoach crawl over from ten yards out. The Mustangs notched the point to lead 7-6 at the end of the first quarter. 
Moments later the Ramblers retaliated with a relentless retui-n to paydirt, 62 yards in eleven line crashes and one pass. The scoring play saw Ralph "the difference" Guglielmi fool the American Public with a weak-side skirt of three yards. The Irish went out front 13-7 when Schaefer converted. 
 DALEY 
This fellow Roach, a tall Texan if ever, kept ND pinioned for quite a while %vith his helium-hoofed punts. Finally, the Irish reserves found a defense for SMU's punt attack. With 1:12 left in the first half, Bob Scannell's block, tackle, and touchdown run of a Mustang punt gave ND a 19-7 intermission lead. 
Joe Heap highlighted second half ac­tion with a touchdown gallop of 89 yards. Taking a handoff from Gugli­elmi, Heap paused long enough to no­tice blocks by Schaefer and Reynolds, then continued down the sidelines, evad­ing many Mustangs. Schaefer made it 26-7. 
Save for a deceptive 76-yard scoring 
run by John Marshall, SMU was never heard from. Paul Reynolds, after chas­ing Mai'shall most of the way, returned < the following kickoff 62 yards, but here the Irish surrendered the ball on penal­ties. 
They kept following that procedure for the rest of the game. It got so bad at one point, that an ND drive started on the Irish 43 consumed 15 plays and four first downs, but ended on the SMU 42 thanks to three penalties. In all the officials awarded Notre Dame 175 yards in reverse. 

The story the statistics told was a fitting close to young Terry Brennan's first season; he had coached a team, which had lost six AU-Americans, to a 9 and 1 record. It was fitting too, be­
cause twelve seniors shook down the thunder for the last time and their valedictories were typical of great Notre Dame teams. There was Ralph Gug­lielmi, "the difference," wearing out acres of Texas soil as he directed the charge. There was Joe Heap, faster than ever as he scored twice and doubled SMU's yardage. There was Sam Pa­lumbo chasing his last quarterback, Paul Matz spoiling another option, Frank Varrichione opening his last mammoth hole. Jack Lee leading his last defensive charge, and there was Shannon coming for the last time, and Tom Carey burst­ing out of his last impossible predica­ment. This was the last of the old gang of four year men, but they'll be talked about for a long, long time. Bob Ready, Tony Pasquesi, Dick Frasor, Jim Bige­low, and Ed Cook left memories too. Dick Szymanski must have helped, he always did. 
Even the penalties didn't really matter because the Irish had finished a great season with a decisive 26-14 over a powerful SMU team. 
Guglielmi Picks Up His Last ND Touchdown 




GILBERT'S 
t 
TH E advantages are obvious, of buying 
itenns identified by the nnaker with his name or brand, and on which he stakes his reputation. You find more "names you know" at Gilbert's than in most other men's stores, because through the years we have constantly stressed famous labels in men's clothing. We have specialized in bringing them to South Bend, selecting them care­fully by performance and reputation. These Brand Names represent firms that stand solidly behind their products—your guar­antee of satisfaction. We can list only a 
few, there are many more. 
FAMOUS BRAND NAMES 
—^trademarks 
of 


QUALITY 
Km 
tiOTttIS 
Jk. 
f;\rii,E 

/istkum^ 
•,& 

809-817 S. Michigan St. 
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN! 
^ ^ December 10, 1954 
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame 
Indiana's Newest and Finest 
92 BATHS Open to the Public All Outside Rooms 92 ROOMS 

TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned BEAUTIFUL PATIO RADIO IN EVERY ROOM GOLF PRIVILEGES CIRCULATING ICE WATER 
i% 

LARGE PARKING AREA 
DELICIOUS FOOD DELIGHTFUL DRINKS 
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions & 


PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST 
OWNED AND OPERATED BY ARMAND E. LYSAK UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Manager 
The Scholastic 
S^ 

XAv-y-'^t, M 
K?^M P 

^ i^ ^ 
&s i^ 

K'^i-',
.v?^ 5i«K^^ ^'iv: 
^^,'i! 


M?«M*'­

mw. 
M5Vc 
h^?^*i

sis t^ wm)m?f; 
i
w m
mi 
m
^m
M m 

FOR UNDERGRADUATES HOME ON VACATION 
Brooks Brothers await your visit with a wide selection of good-looking suits and overcoats... colorful sportwear... tradi­tionally correct evening wear...and fine furnishings. All are designed for today's undergraduates, and reflect the quality and good taste that have made the name Brooks Brothers synonymous with fine clothing the world over. 
ISTAIUSHDimS 
^ens |limisbln00. Hats ^9^^ oes 

346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. 
BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO 
New "Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do . . . fine, medium or broad... with­out changing points. Re> f ilb available in blue, red. green or block ink. Get o Paper-AAote Pen fodoyl 
at the 






Notre Dame Bookstore 
BaseaieBt Badfai HaU 
December 10, 1954 
dSUauBMtt-iJI ii^KNtTt«'N<ll>;igT*i^"'. 
&.-iO 
FIRST PAGE IN A NEW ERA AT NOTRE DAME 
€) 




m Scholastic 
Vol. 96 DECEMBER 10, 1954 No. 9 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Nfortitunis 

Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Xotre Dame, Indiana. .Accepted for mailint; at special rate of postaiie. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. .Vnthori/ed June 2.3. 1918. 
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL 

Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER 
Associate Editor 
FRED C. ECKART 

JOHN ADAMS News t ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE Copy 
CHARLES McKENDRICK 
Assistant Copy DAVE COHEN Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER Circulation PETER STURTEVANT Photo Editor PAUL FITZGERALD 
Photography Coordinator ^ JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator 
Member of Catliolic School Pre>.s .-Vssociation. .\s­sociated Colleiiiate I're.-s. Represented for national advei tisliu^ by Xalional .Advertisintt Service. Inc.. 420 Madison .-\venue. New York City. 
THE SCI10L.\STIC Ls published weeklv during the school year, except dtu-ing vacation and e.samina­tion periods at the University of .Votre Dame. .Ad­dress all manuscripts to tlie Editor. Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana. 

Special Football Review Staff 
^ EDITOR: I'aul Fullmer. 
G.'VMES: Erwin .-Uphon-sus. Dave Davin. Bob Rulil. Paul Fullmer. Dave Kilkeary. Joe Madigan, Paiil LaFreniere. Fled Eckart, Jack Gueguen. and Jack MuUin. 
FE.ATURES: Dick Connelly. John Adams. Gary Gates. Jim Goethals, Joe Bride, Dave Davin. 
B10GR.-\PHIES: Paul Fullmer. Dave Davin. Bob McDonald. 
PHOTOGR.-VPHY: .Al Balnier, "Dutch" Hennings, Gerry Trafiicanda, John O'Brien. Jim Guide. Mike Thompson. .Arniin Gununerman. Hy Peskin, Bob Mackey. 
.ART: Sieve Rebora and .Al Balmer. 
ADVERTISl.N'G: Ken Woodward. Harry Conlou, ^^B Loran ShefTer. 
OUR COVER: The Irish caived the first page in a new Notre Dame era this year —the Terry Brennan era. The Fighting Irish romped through their tough schedule with the poise of a champion. "Dutch" Hennings of the South Bend Tribune, Al Balmer of Indiana Engrav­ing, and Gerry TrafRcanda pooled their talent to produce the cover—THE IRISH 
ON THE MOVE. 
TONE-ARM TEDDY WAS A 

fieedfe noodtiik 
^s'-x :S<>%%K.v::­
He had a 50 watt amplifier . . . two speakers in every room . . . but still his sound wasn't up to snuff. Why?? He was using a hi-ji mrniable with a no-ji needle. But Teddy learned at last. He sent his old needle to Transcriber and had us custom re-tip if with genuine diamond. 
If you are using anything but a diamond — or a diamond more than 12 months old — why not do the same. Remove your needle from its cartridge", scotch-tape it to a piece of cardboard and mail to Transcriber. Our experts will straighten and strengthen the shank . . . re-tip it with a new guaranteed diamond. A real bar­gain at only §10.50 complete. 48 hour service. 
'// you can*c remote needle send entire assembly. 

TRANSCRIBER COMPANY 

Diamond Stylus Manufacturers 
70 Pine Street — Oept. XD-I ^ Attleboro, Mass. 
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken 
At Prices You Will Appreciate 
* 
OUR SPECIALTY 
Yi Golden Brown Fried Potatoes 
Shoestring Potatoes 
Jug of Honey 
Hot Buttered Roils 
$1,311 
• 
JOE MBICHfs Restanrant 
The Varsity 

For All-Weather Wear! 
This dark cordo blucher oxford is made with the "all-weather welt" for added protection in any kind of weather. Leather sole and nibber heel. Ideal 
for year arpiind wear. 

"Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sunday THE HANOVER SHOE 
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. 
% December 10, 1954 
The Huddle 
Congratulates the 1954 Notre Dame football squad 
• • , STOP at the HUDDLE • • • for that little snack between classes 
Congratulations to the 
1954 Fighting Irish 
from the 
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY 
SOUTH BEND, IND. Phone 7-1563  MICHIGAN Crrr, IND .  Phone 6-6277  
MISHAWAKA, DVD.  NORTH LIBERTF, IND.  
ELKHART, IND.  LAPORTE, IND.  

The Scholastic 
Notre Dame Publications 
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz. 
The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is graphically told by the man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry during the war and postwar years. $4.75 
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics, 
edited by Waldemar Gurian. 
This basic text deals with the central question of the Cold War: Is the enemy "Eternal Russia" or Com­munist aggression? $3.75 
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology. 
by Hans Kohn. 
The first attempt in English at a comprehensive sur­vey and analysis of Slav Nationalism, from its begin­ning after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and after World War II. $6.25 
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Govern­ment 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons. A lighting up of the major lines and development of the British foreign policy while the Labour Govern­ment held office. $3.25 
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, 
by Waldemar Gurian. 
A clear and cogent treatment that reveals the basic features of Bolshevism as a social and political re­ligion. $3.25 
Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by Mario Einoudi and Francois Goguel. 
A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the party of the Fourth French Re­public. $4.00 
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, 
by Ferdinand A. Hermens. 
An important voliune on the effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950. $4.00 
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest, by Mary Horrita Fox. 
This is a biography of America's first labor priest. As a pioneer champion of labor. Father Dietz worked alongside such men as Samuel Gompers, Matthew WoU, Daniel Tobin, and Phillip Murray in his attempts to find a desirable solution to industrial strife. $4.75 
Notre Dame, 100 Years, by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. A complete and popularly written history of Notre Dame, filled with anecdotes and interesting stories. A perfect gift for that friend back home. $4.00 
The Review of Politics 
A quarterly that provides in every issue a full range of articles which consider the problems of contemporary life within the historical and philosophical focus of the Christian world-view. Walter lappman says, "I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speddng world in the se­rious discussion of international politics." $4.00 a year 
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. I. 
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan. $2.00 
The Natural Law PhSosophy of the Founding Fathers, by 
Clarence E. Manion. The Natural Law and Pragmatism, by Ben W. Palmer. The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy, by Mortimer Adler. Natural Law and Positive Law, by Harold R. McKiniion. The Eternal Law Background of Natural Law, by William J. 
Doheny, C.S.C. 
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. II. 
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan. $2.00 
Natural Law in the Greek Period, by Maurice LeBel. Natural Law in the Roman Period, by Ernest Levy. Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law, by Gordon HaU Gerould. The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period, by Heinrich A. 
Rommen. 
Status of Natural Law in American Jurisprudenco, by Robert 
N- Wilkin. 
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. III. 
Edited by Edward F. Barrett. $2.00 
Tlie Natural Law and Common Law, by Richard O'SulIivan.^ The Natural Law and Constitutional Law, by Edward S. Corwin. The Natural Law and Canon Law, by Stephzm Kuttner. The Natural Law and International Law, by Carlos P. Romulo. 
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. IV. 
Edited by Edward F. Barrett. $2.00. 
The Source of Human Rights, by George E. Sokolsky. The Natural Law and the Right to L3>erty, by Hon. Thomas 
J. Brogan. The Natui^ Law and the Right to Property, by Hon. Jos^h 
C. Hutdieson, Jr. The Natural Law and the Right of Self-Expression, by Felix 
Morley. The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness, by John 
C. Ford, S.J. 
Natural Low Institute Proceedings, Vol. V. 
Edited by Edward F. Barrett. $2.00. 
The Natural Law in the Jewish Tradition, by Rabbi Solomon Freehof. Tlu) Natural Law in the Hindu Tradition, by Professor M. St. 
Snndaram. The Natural Law in the Confucian Tradition, by Dr. Hu Shih. The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition, by Dr. Khalifa 
Abdul Hakim. The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition, by Daisetz T. 
Suzuki. 
On Sale At The Bookstore 
University of Notre Deme Press, Notre Dame, Indian 
December 10, 1954 
A-
Notre Dame Victory March Musical Powder Boxes 
• Small size $6.75 plus postage and insuranceQ Medium size $7.50 plus postage and insurancen Large size $8.50 plus postage and insurance  _  $7.25 8.00 9.00  
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana  
Name  ­ 
Address  
Cit>' and State  •  Remittance Enclosed  D  Send G.O.D.  

Crystal Clear Glasses to Toast Notre Dame 
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors. 
SEND 6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ....$10.25
n D  10 oz. No. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance  8.75  
n D  . No. 3 Stem Goblet —9oz. $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ...­oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance3yk  10.25 10.25  
D  3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance  ­ 10.25  
D  . No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and insurance14 oz  6.20  
D  pz. No. 7 Old Fashion —7/2. $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance  6.00  
D  10 oz. No. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance  6.00  

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Name-
Address 

City and State. n Remittance Enclosed D Send C.O.D. 
Notre Dame Football Trophy Stein 
Here is a complete three piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND, gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The miniature stein can be used as a cigarette container or as a novelty along with the "Letter Man." 
Large SteinMiniature SteinLetter Man  _  $4.25 1.50 1.50  Q Q D  
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE  
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana  
Name  ­ 

Address 
City and State. _ D Remittance Enclosed Q Send C.O.D. 
The Scholastic Ofcj 
1954 NOTRE DAME VARSITY ROSTER 
No.  NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  A\T.  HOME  TO\VN  HIGH  SCHOOL  
2 ***Carey,  Thomas  QB  21  5-10  180  Chic^o,  111.  .Mt.  Carmel  
3 •**Guglielmi,  Ralph  QB  20  6-0  185  Columbus,  Ohio  . Grandview  .  
4  Bucci,  Donald  QB  21  6-0  180  Youngstown,  Ohio  .East  
5  Hornung,  Paul  QB  18  6-?  190  Louisville,  Ky.  . Flaget  
6  Cooke,  Larry  QB  18  6-0  185  Ennis,  Texas  .Ennis  
8  Bigelow,  James  QB  2t,  5-11  170  Glenshaw,  Pa.  . Shaler  
9  *Schaefer,  Donald  FB-HB  20  5-11  185  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  . Central  Catholic  .  
11  McDonnell,  John  HB  19  5-11  175  Sterling,  111.  . Nevvman  Catholic  
12  Sipes,  Sherrill  HB  19  6-0  185  Louisville,  Ky.  . Flaget  
15  Callaghan,  Leo  HB  21  6-1  185  Passaic,  N.  J.  . Pope Pius XII  
16  Kigali,  William  HB  19  5-10  175  Chic^o,  111.  . Fenvvick  
17  Morse,  James  _  HB  19  5-11  180  Muskegon,  \Iich.  .St.  Mary's  
18  **ReynoIds,  Paul  FB  21  6-0  180  Springfield,  111.  .Cathedral  
19  Milota,  James  HB  19  5-11  170  Park  Ridge,  111.  _  . Fenwick  —  
20  Witucki,  Jack  HB  19  6-1  185  Tulsa,  Okla.  _.::_.  . Cascia  Hall  
21  Gerami,  Gerald  HE  19  5-9  178  Lafayette,  La.  . Cathedral  _  
22  Studcr,  Dean  HB  18  5-11  180  Billings,  Mont.  . Central  
30  Ward,  Robert  HB  19  5-8  160  Van  Dyke,  Mich.  . German Twp. McCldlandtovvn,  Pa.  
32  *Fitzgerald,  Richard  FB  21  5-11  190  Chicago,  III.  St.  George  _  
33 ***Shannon,  Dan  (Co-Capt.)  E  20  6-0  190  Chicago,  III.  Mt.  Carmel  ,  
34  Gaffney,  John  FB  20  6-1  190  Chicago,  111.  St.  Ignatius  
37  Raich,  Nicholas  FB  20  5-10  185  Milwaukee,  Wis.  Marquette  _  
38  Wilson,  George  FB  20  5-11  185  Polo,  111.  Community  
40  *Keller,  Richard  HB  19  6-0  175  Toledo,  Ohio  . Central  Catholic  
41  Pinn,  Frank  FB  19  5-10  190  Chicago,  111.  . Mt.  Carmel  
42 ***Heap,  Joseph  HB  22  5-11  180  Abita  Springs,  La.  Holy  Cross  
43  Markowski,  Joseph  FB  20  6-0  185  Hamilton,  Ontario  . Cathedral  _  
45  Kaiser,  David  FB  19  6-2  195  Alpena,  Mich.  . Alpena  
47  Davin,  David  E  19  6-4  203  Chicago,  111,  . St.  Ignatius  
48  Bosse,  Joseph  T  19  6-2  205  Lawrence,  Mass.  _  . Central  Catholic  
49  Hendricks,  Richard  HB  20  6-1  180  Danville,  111.  . Schlarman  
50  Noznesky,  Pete  E  19  6-0  180  Lansdowne,  Pa.  . LaSalle Military Acad. Oakdale, L. I., N. Y.  
51  Mense,  James  C  19  5-11  205  Hamilton,  Ohio  .  . Hamilton  Catholic  
52 ***Szymaiiski,  Richard  G  21  6-2  215  Toledo,  Ohio  . Libbqy  
53  Carrabine,  Luke  G  19  6-1  205  Gary,  Indiana  . Gary  Emerson  
56  Cook,  Edward  .  C  21  6-1  210  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .S.E.  CathoUc  .  
58  King,  Jack  G  18  5-10  200  Weirton,  W. Va.  . Weir  
59  Regan,  Michael  E  19  6-2  200  Buffalo,  N.  Y.  _  . Canisius  
60 ***Varrichione,  Frank  T  21  6-0  - 210  Natick,  Mass.  . Natick  
61  McMultan,  John  G  20  5-10  200  Hobofcen,  N. J. .  . Demerest  
62  *BiscegHa,  Pat  ...  G  23  1-10  190  Worcester,  Mass.  . Commerce  
63  Frasor,  Richard  C  21  5-11  190  Chicago,  III.  . Mt.  Carmel  
64  McCabe,  Pete  G  18  6-2  205  Wilmette,  111.  . New  Trier  
65 »*»Lee.  Jack  G  21  5-11  190  Medford,  Mass. .  . Maiden  Catholic  
66  Zervas,  Thomas  G  19  6-1  205  Lakewood,  Ohio  . Lakewood  
67 •»*Paliimbo,  Samuel  T  21  6-1  208  Cleveljmd,  Ohio  . Collinwood  
68  Nakfoor,  Patrick  E  20  6-4  205  Lansing,  Mich.  ..-St.  Mary's  
69  Stanitzek,  Francis  G  19  5-10  200  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.  Grand  Rapids  
70  Martell,  Eugene  T  19  6-3  212  Midland,  Pa.  Lincoln  
71  Beams,  Byron  T  19  6-4  217  Ada,  Okla.  
72  *Lemek,  Raymond  G  19  6-1  205  Sioux City,  la.  . Hoelan  
73  Mondron,  Robert  T  19  6-3  210  Charleston,  W. Va.  . Charleston  Catholic  
74  **Ready,  Robert  T  21  6-3  212  Lowell,  Mass.  . Lowell  
75  Pasquesi,  Anthony  T  20  6-4  215  Chicago,  111.  St.  PhilUp  
76  Groble,  George  T  18  6-2  212  Chicago,  111.  St.  Ignatius  
77  Nicula,  George  T  19  6-2  205  Warren,  Ohio  Harding  
78  Kegaly,  John  T  20  6-3  207  Chicago,  III.  
79  Bihn,  Joseph  T  19  6-2  208  San  Jose,  Calif.  
80  Munro,  James  E  18  6-0  195  Chicago,  III.  
81  *George,  Donald  E  20  6-4  205  Dunbar,  Pa.  
82  *Edmonds,  Wayne  G  20  6-0  205  Canonsburg,  Pa.  
83  ScantneU,  Robert  E  19  6-0  190  South  Bend,  Ind.  
84  Zajeski,  Benedict  G  20  6-3  205  Chicago,  111.  
85  Loncaric,  Louis  E  18  6-3  190  
86  Schramm,  Paul  T  IS  6-2  212  
87  Dumas,  Jack  E  19  6-3  190  
88  **Cabral,  Walter  E  21  6-3  205  
89  Kapish,  Eugene  E  19  6-1  190  
90  *»Matz,  Paul  (Co-Capt.)  E  20  6-1  190  
91  L*ich,  Robert  T  19  6-3  212  
* Denotes  monograms  won  in  previous  years  

CLASS 
_Sr. _Sr. 
_Sr. 
_So. _So. _Sr. -Jr. _So. _So. _Sr. _So. _So. -Jr. _So. _So. _So. _So. 
_So. 
_Jr. _Sr. -Jr. -Jr. -Jr. _Jr. _So. -Sr. -Jr­_So. _So. _So. 
-Jr. 
_So. -Jr. _Sr. _So. _Sr. _So. _Jr. _Sr. -Jr. -Jr. _Sr. _So. _Sr. _So. 
-Jr. _So. -Jr. 

> December 10, 1954 
Irish Foes End With Winning Seasons; Plan Your Navy and USC to Play in New Year's Bowls 
1955 
10-DAY ALL-EXPENSE 
Football 
Tour NOW! 
N. D. vs. 

U. of Miami 
Miami, Florida 

Leave: Sunday, Oct. 2,1955 Return: Tues., Oct. 11,1955 
6 Days at MLI^H BEACH! 
Suamming, Golf, Fishing, Boating 
(N.B. This tour will be limited to one train) 
N. D. vs. Southern California 
Los Angeles, Calif. 
Leave: Sunday, Nov. 20, 1955 Retui-n: Tues., Nov. 29, 1955 
For further details write: 
EABL J. (Pete) REDDEN 1671 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Indiana 
Half ofthe 1954 Irish opponents iin­ished their grid seasons with better than .500 averages. But one team, Pennsyl­vania, failed to^^^n a single game. 
Purdue, Navy, Iowa, Southern Cali­fornia, and Southern Methodist had winning seasons, statisties--vvise. 
The Boilermakers beat Notre Dame 27-14, but lost to Wisconsin, Michigan State, Iowa and Ohio State, the number one team inthe country. They had a season total of five wins, four losses and one tie, that with Duke. 
Sugar Bowl-bound Navy lost only to the Irish and Pittsburgh. But the Mid­dies were able to trip-up their tradi­tional rival. Army 27-20. This victory 
alone usuallv makes Navy's season a success. ' 
Iowa was able to win one more game than it lost. They managed tobeat powerful Wisconsin, 13-7, and Purdue, 25-14. But perhaps their biggest game. with the Irish, was almost a rout. ND won, 34-18. 
Out West, Southern California's Tro­jans, the Western Conference represen­tative to the Eose Bowl, won eight and lost three. They were beaten by Texas Christian, UCLA, second rated team in the land, and the Irish. The Trojans 
defeated Califoniia by two points, up­state I'ival Stanford, 21-7. 
After nine games. Southern Methodist has a tidy record of six victories, two losses and a tie. They have clipped Southwestei-n Conference champs, Ar­kansas 21-14, Rice 20-6, and Texas Christian 21-6. The Arkansas Eazor­, , -1, r, • 4.-, n 4-t-T)„ 1 backs will be m the Cotton Bowl on XT« v„ » n ^ • T> 1-J Tj i«^ New Year s. Georgia Tech and Baylor 
.-, I 1. 1. J 4.V, are the only ones who have marred the 
,, , , T. J T

•Mustangs' schedule. 
The other five teams were not so foi-­tunate. Texas lost to Southwest Con­ference champ Arkansas, 20-7, and the Eice Owls, 13-7. They also had a 13-13 tie with Southern Methodist. 
Pittsburgh started the season \vith three defeats. The "Cats" rallied to beat Navy by three points folloAving the Irish tilt. Northwestern, 14-7, and then strong West Virginia two weeks later. 13-10. Captain Tom Hamilton took over the Panther coaching reins from ailing Lowell "Red" Dawson, who resigned midway through the season. Even this was not enough and Pitt only won four while losing five. 
Michigan State's second year in the Big Ten was just the opposite of 1953, when they were conference champions and went on to win the Rose Bowl game. The Spai-tans, with new coach Hugh Daugherty, lost six contests. Included in these were losses toNotre Dame, Iowa, and Purdue. 
Pennsylvania could not manage to win one. Under new head coach Steve Sebo, the Quakers lost to Notre Dame, Duke, William and Mary, Princeton, George Washington, Navy, Penn State, Army, and Cornell. .-•­
DoAvn North Carolina way, the Tar-^•) heels won four, lost five and tied one. They beat North Carolina State, Wake Forest, arch-rival South Carolina, and Virginia. Besides losing to Notre Dame, Georgia, Maiyland, Tennessee, and Duke, the Tar Heels tied Tulane 7-7. 
^^^  records:  
W  L  T  
Texas  4  5  1 ,. /  
Purdue  5  6  1 ' t  
Pittsburgh  4  5  0  
Michigan State  3  6  0  
Navy  7  2  0  
Pennsylvania  0  9  0  
^-Carolina  4  5  1  
^^^^'^  -­;  •;  0  4  0  
^°­ California  8  3  0  
^o. Methodist  (9 games) ...._6  _2 J .  

Totals: 10 teams 46 44 4 
>-o_-.-. 

_ /\nnOUnCG 1955 Oflrcl* '" . ., kj» si*! I 
InQldnd, MiaiTII LiSTeci 
-»T ^ T. .„ , ^ •. 
^^^^'^ ^^™^ "'^^1^1^^ ^°'''" \ T ^f "^.^^ f ^^* ^ f f"' ^^^^^^ ^,"^^ ^^^^J ^^Je includes Indiana and the University f ^^^""' ^^^-, I"^^^"^' the traditional downstate rival, replaces Texas and ,^. . ^, ^-i •, ^ -n,.^ -, Miami takes the place of Pittsburgh. 
„, „ . ^ , , , %.^ , The Hoosiers, coached by ex-Notre y _ „ . ' . . , , ,, ,/
Darner Bemie Crimmms, return to the .<^
^., ,-. I . r *1
Irish card after an absence of four ' years 
jfjajj^j^ ^.^nked throughout this year j^^ ^he top ten, will meet the Irish in ^night game in Miami. Not since 1951, ^y^gn j^otre Dame met Detroit, have the Irish played under the lights, 
The 1955 schedule has no open Satur­days and the home games end on Nov. 19 with Iowa. 
The rest of the schedule will be the same this season. 
The Schedule: \ Sept. 24—S.M.U. at Notre Dame Oct. 1—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 7—Miami at Miami, Florida / Oct. 15—Michigan State at E. Lansing I Oct. 22—Purdue at Lafayette 
Oct. 29—^Navy at Notre Dame Nov. 5—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Nov. 12—North Carolina at Chapel Hill Nov. 19—^lowa at Notre Dame Nov. 26—So. California at Los Angeles 
The Scholastic % 
The Notre Dame Marching Band in Formation Under the Direction of H. Lee Hope. 
They Make the Old ND Spirit 
The tramp of marching feet on the paved road outside the stadium heralds the Notre Dame Marching Band each Saturday afternoon of home football games. Down the concrete runway, through the goal posts at the northern 
. 
end of the field, and out onto the gi-een gridiron parade 90 mai-chers. 
With their familiar "hike" step, the band puts on an exciting ipre-game dis­play as thousands rise in tribute to the spine-tingling Victory March, played only as a Notre Dame Band can play it—on a sunny Saturday afternoon in the Notre Dame football Stadium. 
Two kettle drums, two glockenspiels, seven tubas, trumpets, trombones, flutes .. . all these instruments plus seven red kilted "Irish Pipers" add color as well as music to the thronged stadium. 
Half-time cei-emonies are built ai'ound a certain theme. A "This I3 Your Life" theme, dedicated to Terry Brennan as he made his debut in collegiate coaching circles, delighted fans at the season's opener . . . and complying, the Irish trounced Texas. 
m Travel To Navy Game 
When the Spartans fj-om Michigan State came down from the north, the Band went south with a little dixieland: 
Muskrat Ramble, When The Saints Go Marching In, even the Bunny Hop. East to Baltimore and the Navy game, the Band parlayed a repeat performance of their jazz numbers for Navy fans. 
The Tar Heels from North Carolina were entertained with Brigadoon selec-
December 10, 1954 
By DICK CONNELLY 
tions: Heather on the Hill, and It's Almost Like Being In Love. In a big finale, the Notre Dame Marching Band portrayed the "Spirit of Notre Dame" in an impressive half-time for Southern California rooters by playing the Victory March, The Lamp of Learning, and Bach-Gounod's Ave Maria. 
At the end of each game, as people swarm out of the Stadium, the Band assembles on the paper-strewn field. 
The Cheerleaders of the Gold and Blue 
•S^S'JKX'-YJ ""^^ 
•M$MT
wm:'.
'ix'm P^K '^"'v. 
\ « 
i:->y-'r-A 
^f-'.-S'-m 

More than often, they play the visiting team's alma mater and leap into a rollicking Victory March. 
The Band's "man behind the scenes" is Director H. Lee Hope. Jerry Gatto does the high-stepping as the dram major. Other Band officers: Tom May, president; and Don Bels, vice-president. 
Along with the music, there's noise. Making most of it are six leather-lunged (Continued on page 48) 
HOME FOR CHRISTMAS"—Gift pack­age of the season — colorful — attractive — de­siixned by the famous artist, Stevan Dohanos. Remember all your smokinij friends with the srift that really satisfies—Chesterfields. Best to 
noKe. 
BM^i|JiPPiiii>y^H»ia^' 
V V-;" -./ 
>E LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO <Co 







