ii.iaiss;,a2Eiasa.'=.E^SfSHiSi2i=-•
;»aii:fcii--<t5v 
;«-^i_i*_ 
The Notre Dame 
football Issue • 50<f December g, 1949 

Scholastic 
asOii^­

^^fe-« 
pg^sif^ 
lit 
#••^1^ 
# V 
#1 
f ^y 

/^ --.. 
Don't forget, fellows, men like Gifts too!! Hurry to GILBERT'S, South Bend's Finest Gift Center for men. 
McGregor Szceaters, Campus Coats, Sport Shirts and Jackets, ranging S3.95 up: Arrozc Shirts, $3.65 up; Dobhs Hats. S8.50 up; Remington Electric Razors, S17.50 up: Szcank Men's Jezcelry, $1.50 up; Seaforth and Old Spice Toiletries, Si .00 up; etc., etc. 
GILBERT'S 
813-817 South Michigan Street OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9 P. M. 
The Scholastic 
ift 

GILBERT'S 
813-817 South Michigan Street 
* # Dec. 9, 1949 
• *"• •• ^1 I II III! irrn r •T-|iiiniii«im«in •iiiijiiM<iu«Mn.wijmiiu__i_j_i_ 
Bend's 
BEST 
for 


REST 

Oliver La Salle Hoffmann 
The Hotel Association 
The Scholastic^­
H-C-t-i-O-H. 
WITH YOUR NEGATIVES 
.^ 

You'll Like Our Extra Large Prints of Your Films At No Extra Cost to You 
TRY OUR QUICK MAIL ORDER SERVICE 






Ault Camera Shop, Inc. 
122 SOUTH MAIN —OPPOSITE COURT HOUSE South Bend, Indiana PHONE 3-5041 
 Dec. 9, 1949 


oooWV 
ceV oo 
aP^* 

^' Service Printers, Inc. 
'H<ftt^ienft *?MdcaMaX ^at^eit 0MMte>iccal "Ptuttem^ 
\ 

llAXD-iiet^ilIeil e«1ge 



SUITS BY VARSITY TOWi\ 
'65 
America's first suit with Uni\-ersity men ex'erywhere. Tailored of pure \vool worsteds in vibrant new colors that ha\'e life in them! In one-button roll Great Drape double breasted models or popular two-button single breasted styles . . . both with HAND-needled edges and other quality features. See Varsity Town Suits before vou buv! 
exclusive in Souiii fiend at 
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON 
Dec. 9, 1949 

JIM FERSTEL says, 
"Here's another great T-formation 

SKIPPER T-SHIRTS 
There's nothing deceptive about the quality appearance of Skipper Sportswear! And it feels as good as it looks—neat, 
comfortable, casual. 
B 
i"-': 

HERE'S THE WOOL to pull over 
• 
your head these chilly days. 
Skipper Sweaters comq in 
crew or V-neck. Sleeveless 
models, too. $3.95 to $19.50. 
/ 
FOR HURRY-UP ACTIVITIES, slip into a handsome, colorful Skipper T-Shirt. They need no ironing—you can just wash 'em out yourseK! $1.00 to $3.95. 

VERSATILE IS THE WORD for Skipper Sportshirts! Wearable any­where, with or without a tie. Trim fitting tapered waist, broad 
shouldered. $3.95 to $15.00. 
I -,; 
i : 
I '! 
{-•- --. 
MAX ADLER COMPANY Michigan at Washington 
HECK & AKER m W. Jefferson Blvd. 
RASMUSSEN MEN'S SHOP io6 so. Mam st, 
ROSE & KATZ, INC. Main at ColfoX WYMAN'S 103 No. Michigan 
The Scholastic 
m 
Tlie Notre Dame Spirit 
By HENRY McLEMORE 
If you peeked in my office window right now you would see me seated at my desk wearing a football uniform, complete to nu­merals on my back, with textbooks piled around me, and tuition and spending money in my pocket. . . . 
I have on the football suit today because I am going to write about Notre Dame's football team. 
It seems that the Notre Dame football team is so good that there is talk—much talk—about it not being able to get any more games. 
You hear, and you hear it often, that in a few years no school will play the Irish for fear that it will get its ears pinned back by six or seven touchdowns, and so would pre­fer to play schools whose ears it can pin back. 
I do not doubt that this is true. It is also a sign, and a rather important sign whether you believe it or not, that this country is getting a trifle soft—that its citizens want the easy way to victory and momentary sops to their pride. 
There was a time in this country when the hard way was the way that was wanted, because it offered a challenge. It offered boys and men a chance to prove that they were just that, with no apron strings bind­ing them when they went out to take a whack at what was tough. 
There was a time when a football team would rather beat Notre Dame once in ten years than boast of ten consecutive vic­tories over Podunk Poly Tech. Now they want Podunk every Saturday, with parades after every game, and with everything aglow except their pride. 
There was a time in this country when a premium was placed on perfection. No more. The time has come when to be pop­ular you must be in the middle—not too good, not too bad. So far, Notre Dame has not subscribed to that theory when it fields a football team. It sends its men out to do their best. Heaven help us when we reach a point where we are sent out to do less than that. 
I wonder if the public has ever considered the possibility that the will to win is a little stronger in the Notre Dame team. I wonder if the coaches who don't want to schedule the Irish ever consider the possibility that Frank Leahy might be a better coach than they are. 
I wonder, too, when it became wrong in this country to be the best. 
There are lots of Americans left—and this I'll bet—who'll go to see Notre Dame play itself, if the other fellows don't want to put the boys with the green shirts on their schedules. 
And don't give me the song and dance that Notre Dame offers more inducements to football players than the other schools who go in for football in a big way. I know better. 
Notre Dame just plays the game a little harder, a little smarter, and a little better. More power to you, Frank. Lay it on 'em. 
(Reprinted through tlie courtesy of Henry ^fcLcmore and McNaught Syndicate, Inc.) 

^Ae SCUOIGAJUO P^eientA. 







Review 
Dec. 9, 1949 
The 1949 Season 
The Scholastic 

uv t  *^ f  M W.mn.  n ^^^'At^ 'm  
.:^4  
•  ^  IS'  
';^  ^  2^:  
•"--;-. . r5j-:5,3^ -^ '^,  
•«f <"«<%  ^  t S£  
fM'  

Z^^^S! 

«e'We shall always want Bi^otre Bame men 
_•;; \' ^"'to-play-towin': '[^I'v-^'.' 'i!?" solong as there is a Notre Baini<e \^ .\i/^r to win cleanly according t6 the riiles . S _^^' ri hecause Notre Bame men are reared here on the campus in this spirit,.^ and because they^^exc^mplify 7 
•, ,. ^,tIi|8:spirlt>_aU;o?^er the woi^ld,"' ;''<< ^ey ar<ff^lfe>nir^...oi"'the:natl©^^ 

itev . ^Ohn jr. Cavanangh, e^SXr 
^m:
"t-j-^ 

L^. *=. 
.< - -* 

>r 
".-» 
/*> INTJ ^3 >f «*3^i 
-ii>^*
IJ%V. 
ie^ r fikf 
i*?j 
m
?MJ3 
->. 

*%; k^ 
^^. 
* " ^ ••C3 
'^
^^^^ 
'• \ .c' 
^^^ 
^1 
si 

'^ •^ 
s 

Dec. 9, 1949 

Kranse Directs Irish Atlileties 
Edward W. Krause . . . director of athletics and head basketball coach. "Moose" left the coaching field early in last year's season to confine his football activ­ities to the atliletic ofiices as assistant director of ath­letics. Shortly after the '48 season, he moved into full directorship when Frank Leahy retired from the post. He has remained in his position as basketball coach. Ed was an Ail-American in football and basketball while a student at Notre Dame. He was line coach at 
Holy Cross for three years, returning to Notre Dame in 1942. He served in the Marine Corps from 1944 to 1946, returning a second time to Notre Dame upon his discharge. "Moose" claims the distinction of being the only athlete in the University's history to be voted a trophy by the student body. Now that football is over, he will put all his efforts behind the 1949-50 basketball squad. Practicing since October, the Irish netmen show promise of being one of his best teams. 
• 
The Scholastic 

« 
Dr. Pessimism Puts B^D on Top 
Francis W. Leahy . . . head coach of the Fighting Irish . . . has just ended one of his most successful football seasons at Notre Dame, turning out one of his greatest teams in the process. He achieved the ulti­mate in pessimism at the beginning of the '49 season, predicting the Irish would lose seven games. Rather his team piled up more records and added more glory to his name. Leahy first entered the coaching game in 1931, as line coach at Georgetown the same Fall after his graduation from Notre Dame. Ten years later, after successful stints at Fordham and Boston College, he returned to Notre Dame, head coach of his alma mater. His record with the Irish prior to this season showed only three losses in six seasons, while his lads captured the national championship three times. Frank Leahy w^as bom August 27,1908, in O'Neill, Neb. He is married and has six children, four boys and two girls. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
( 

Left to right: Coaches Druze, McBride, Crimmins, Leahy, Earley and Ziemba. Joe McArdle and Fred Miller were not present. 

Seven Coaches Aid Fraok Leahy | 
Behind the power of the Irish teams the vital positions as assistant coaches, 
By JACK POWERS 

stands the finest coaching staff in col­Leahy has chosen the best men in the lege football today. As Notre Dams business. marches on, year after year, to greater little aware, however, of the seven un-The only man on the staff who has heights in football glory the sport knowTi wonders Frank Leahy has as­not been trained by Frank Leahy is pages of the nation devote more and sembled under him. All of them, Frederick Miller, captain and tackle of more space to the Fighting Irish and Kockne or Leahy-trained, had their the 1928 team. Capable and versatile, their masterful head coach. share of college fame. Each of them Fred has already made his mark in the 
America's sporting public is probably is now an expert at his specialty. For business world. His job as assistant to 
Frank Leahy Bernie Crimmins Wally Ziemba 
The Scholastic 
"^'^•7; t 
Bob McBride 
his fonner teammate is strictly volun­tary, for professionally he's the presi­dent of the Miller's High Life Brewing Co. of Milwaukee. The natty JMr. Miller divides his time between busi­ness and Notre Dame. 
As a student, Fred earned three var­sity monograms, learning his football from Knute Eockne. His assistance to the regular staif has been invaluable on Cartier Field, where his Eockne training becomes apparent. He's hap­pily married and has eight children. 
Since his days at Fordham, John Druze has been closely associated Avith Frank Leahy. Born in Newark, N. J., in 1914, he spent four years at Irvin-ton high school, where he won mono­grams in football, baseball and tra^k. Johnny's next stop was Fordham and once again he distinguished himself in three sports. Under Jimmy Crowley and his assistant, Frank Leahy, the Eams were producing some of the top teams in the country. In 1938, Druze captained one of the best, the famed Seven Blocks of Granite. 
After graduation he played a year of pro ball and then followed Leahy to Boston College as end coach. After service in the Navy, he came to ND in his present position as end coach. He's married and has one daughter. 
Another Fordham man who played under Leahy and later became one of his assistants is Joseph McArdle. Mas­sachusetts born, the 38-year-old Irish guard coach, was a stellar athlete at Lowell High. He won three monograms at Fordham and after graduation sold insurance and worked for the New York World-Telegram. In 1939, he joined Leahy at Boston as line coach; came vnth him to Notre Dame in '41. 
Shortly afterward, McArdle entered 

i Dec. 9, 1949 
Bill Earley 
the Navy, putting in 44 months of service. He served in the Pacific; spent nine months on the cai'rier Wasp. Dis­charged a lieutenant commander in 1946, he returned to ND where he re­sumed his post as tutor of the Irish guards. He was marz-ied in 1942, has two children, a boy and a girl. 
Stalwart center coach since 1943, big Walter Ziemba is no stranger to Cartier Field. He was born in Hammond, Ind., in 1919, and played fullback, tackle and end for the local high school, along with basketball and track. Wally came to Notre Dame in 1939 and won a varsity letter his second year out at tackle. In 1941, however, he was switched to center, where he won AU-American honors in his senior year. 
After graduation Wally joined the Mai'ines, but was discharged for phys­ical disability. He joined the Leahy staff soon after and has been here ever since. So far, though, he hasn't seen too many games; he's usually scouting next week's foe. Wally was mai-ried in 1945 and has one child, a daughter. 
Also ranking high as a scout is backfield coach Bill Earley. Hailing from Parkersburg, W. Va., high school. Bill gained prominence as an athlete in football, basketball and ti-ack. He entered Notre Dame in 1939 and won monograms in '40, '41 and '42. While a player he established a reputation both as a line-bucker and breakaway runner. In the 1941 -win over Navy, he dashed 60 yards to the one-foot line to set up the winning margin. 
Bill served as an Air Force bombar­dier in Italy during the war. He was discharged in 1945 and returned here as B squad coach. He took over the varsity backfield in '47. Bill was married in 1943, has a boy and a girl. 
Johnny Druze 

A native of LouisviUe, Ky., Bemie Crimrnins had won two monograms as a back in 1940. Leahy, however, switched him to guard in '41 and Ber­nie won AU-American honors at the post. He started coaching high school ball upon graduation, but returned to the campus for Midshipman's school. 
He served in the Pacific as com­mander of a PT boat and was dis­charged in 1945, after winning the Silver Star. Bemie j'oined the Irish coaching staff in 1946 as a backfield coach. He was mai-ried in 1948. 
The most recent addition to the Irish staff is tackle coach Bob McBride. An Ohio boy. Bob was bom Sept. 6, 1922, in Logan, grew up there and attended Logan high. Bob won three letters as fullback and was captain in his last year, A^inning All-State honors. He also played basketball and baseball. At ND, he started out as a fullback but won monogi'ams at guard in '41, '42 and '46. 
During the interim he was a member of the 106th Infantry Division and spent time in a German POW camp. For the past two years he has been football coach at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. Bob is married and has two sons. 
Head Coach Frank Leahy gives most of the credit for his winning team to these seven men. In a sense he is right in doing so. 
For although it is up to Coach Leahy to supervise the daily drills and master­mind the team, these men ai-e respon­sible for the crisp blocks and smashing tackles that are the mark of a Notre Dame team. When the Leahy touch is 
added tomentals,Irish elev  this knowledge of the the result is anotheren.   funda­ great  
15  

Hart and Martin Lead '49 Team 
Leon Hart . . . This 21-year-old "Monster" has established himself as one of the great ends in Notre Dame history. Leon, a 245 pound stripling, moves swiftly on offense, blocks and tackles sharply to earn fully his All-America rating. Hailing from Turtle Creek, Pa., Leon lettered in football, baseball and basketball at high school there. He will graduate with a degree in mechanical engineering this Spring; then he plans to get married. Pro football will get his nod for a while, then he hopes to enter the engineering field in sales work. i 
James Martin . . . Moved to the tackle post from his old end posi­tion this season, Jungle Jim has carved a name for himself in the Irish forward wall. A senior from Cleveland, Ohio, Jim prepped at East Tech high school there, wanning letters in football and swim­ming. Serving 30 months in the Marines, he received a presidential citation for his action in the invasion of Tinian. Jim was heavy­weight boxing champ at Notre Dame in 1947. He is 25 years old, majors in physical education, and wants to be a coach after June. 
i 
The Scholastic " 

Will iam Barrett .. . A sensational sophomore halfback muscled his way into the company of Bill Gay and Larry Coutre early in the season and proved his worth. Bill played four years of football at Fenwick high school in Chicago, living in near-by River Forest, 
111. Boasting an all-state rating in ]947 and Fenwick's leading ground gainer the same year, he stayed in the trophy ranks by re­ceiving the Hering award for the "most aggressive back" in 1949 Spring training with the Irish. Bill is in the College of Commerce and hopes to go into business after graduation. His favorite pas­time is reading. 
James Bartlett .. . A lanky, 195-pound sophomore center, Jim shapes up as a fine future prospect for the Irish pivot post. Already he has given a good account of himself on defense this season. Hail­ing from Cincinnati, Ohio, where he pulled down three football monograms at Elder high school, Jim won all-city honors under his father-coach, Walter J. Bartlett. At Notre Dame he majors in chemistry and hopes to enter the chemical research field after grad­uation. A bridge addict, Jim places that game tops among his favorite pastimes. Scoring on a 98-yard run after a pass intercep­tion in high school is his biggest sports thrill to date. 
Gerald Begley . . . Irish senior quarterback from Yonkers, N. Y. This 21-year-old reserve signal caller, playing in the shadow of Lujack, Tripucka and Williams has seen only sporadic action with the Fighting Irish but his gumption and willingness have been sur­passed by none. A product of Mt. St. Michael's high school in Yonkers, Gerry won three letters for football and four for track in his prep days. A commerce honor student majoring in domestic marketing, he has not yet laid definite pbst-gi-aduate plans. He names Northivcst Passage his favorite book, handball his favorite pastime, and playing in the '49 Navy game his gi-eatest sports thrill. 
Byron Boji . . . This stocky center from Chicagoland, hampered by injuries during the early part of the season, has bolstered the Irish defense capably in the later games. He joined the other galaxy of Windy City stars on the Sportswi-iters High School All-America football squad in 1947 while playing for Austin. Boj's other prep honors include four football letters, two in track and being named to the Illinois All-State team. A sophomore in the College of Com­merce, he plans to go to agi-icultural school after gi*aduation. Duck hunting is Byron's favorite hobby, and beating Fenwick high school 27-0 in '47 gave him his gi'eatest thrill in sports. 
Dec. 9, 1949 

Paul Burns . . . This tall, husky sophomore guard has seen a good deal of defensive action this year and promises to see quite a bit more in his next two years. He played two years of football at Athens high school, in his home to^^^l of Athens, Pa., and one year at Aquinas Institute, Rochester, N. Y. Burns is 20 years old, single, and is in the College of Commerce. He has a tentative eye on pro football for after graduation. Like many another ND grid man, he says his biggest sports thrill was plajnng with the Irish for the first time. In his spare time, he likes to stop in at the Rec hall for a game or two of pool. 
August Cifelli . . . Plajang his last season for the Fighting Irish, tall, soft spoken Gus has established himself as a stalwart at the right tackle post. He is after his third ND monogram this year. A native of Philadelphia, Gus served 31 months with the U. S. Marines during the war. Also a boxing addict, he won several service titles and competed three times in the heavyweight division of the University Bengal Bouts. He gained his high school experi­ence at LaSalle in Philly, where he won letters in three sports. One of the two married men on the team, Gus hopes to work for his master's degree in philosophy after a short stint in the pro ranks. 
Richard Cotter .. . A genial, blond fullback from Austin, Minn., Dick broke his leg in the Navy game and was forced to sweat out the remainder of the season on the sidelines. He played three years of football at St. Augustine's high school in Austin, winning three varsity letters in the process, and landed himself a berth on the Irish traveling squad this year. Dick is in the College of Arts and Letters and majors in Philosophy. After graduation, he plans to go back to the Cotter ranch in Minnesota. He is 21 years old and names hunting as his favorite sport-pastime. 
Lawrence Coutre . . . One of Coach Leahy's most outstanding backs, Larry has improved consistently since he first gained the limelight with his 75-yard touchdo^^^l jaunt in the '47 Old Timers' game. This smft red-head from Chicago's St. George high school has been a thorn in opponents' sides throughout the season. He won the coveted Hering Award in '48 as the most aggressive back in Spring practice. Now a senior in the College of Commerce, Scooter plans a few years in professional football after graduation; then into the ice cream business A\dth his brothers. Larry says his big­gest sports thrill was scoring against Army in '47, a game he didn't even think he'd plaj'^. 
The Scholastic 

Raymond Espenan .. . A defensive end from New Orleans, Ray is one of the last of the men with the Irish who were eligible for four years of college competition under the now defunct wartime ruling. He attended Holy Cross High School in New Orleans and gathered letters in football, basketball and track. Ray served two years in the Navy, including service during the invasion of the Philippines. He is now 24. A senior, he is majoring in physical education and he has already accepted V coaching job at his old high school for after graduation. Incompatible as it may seem with playing football, his favorite pastime is painting in water colors. 
William Flynn .. . A junior end from Gary, Ind., Bill attended Horace Mann high school in the Pittsburgh- of the Mid-West, cop­ping two varsity letters in football and one in basketball. Now 22, he served two years in the Marines before enrolling at Notre Dame. Bill is in the College of Science, majoring in mechanical engineering. Although he has no definite plans for the future, he states, "I would like to get into air-conditioning." He relaxes by listening to classical music. His biggest thrill in sports was suiting up for the Irish. 
Fidel Gander . . Handicapped this year by an injury sustained in the Old Timer's game last spring, this 19-year-old defensive halfback was forced to leave football alone for the first part of the season. But since the Navy game his speed and aggressiveness have proven him a terror to ball-carrying opponents. Del attended Mount Carmel high school in his hometown, Chicago, where he earned three letters in football and one in track—he was a 100-yard dash man. At Notre Dame "Goose" is enrolled in the College of Commerce and is majoring in business administration. He hopes to go into business for himself after graduation. Hunting and fishing are the pastimes he enjoys most. 
William Gay . . . Another contribution to the Irish from Chicago, 111., this halfback has given the Irish a brilliant running season reminiscent of his last year's performance. Bill attended high school at Tilden Tech, in Chicago, where he played three years of football and captained the 1945 Kelly Bowl championship team. Although he spent 13 months in the Army upon high school graduation, in­cluding eight months in Japan, Bill is only 21. He is majoring in business administration, having no plans after graduation. He names scoring the winning touchdo\\Ti in last year's 12-7 Northwestern game as his greatest sports thrill. 
Dec. 9, 1949 J9 
f 

Jerome Groom . . . Tall, likeable Jerry, Notre Dame's defensive center, has played a terrific line-backing game throughout the year. Jerry is a native of Des Moines, Iowa, where he won monograms in football and baseball and was named to all-state grid honors in his senior year. This 20-year-old junior is enrolled in the College of Commerce; his major is Business Administration. After graduation he hopes to play pro ball a while, then to enter the distributing busi­ness with his father. His hobbies include working in Summer boys' camps and amateur camera work. Playing in the '48 Old Timer's game was his biggest sports thrill. 
WaSter Grothcsus . . . Big blond Walt inherited the first string center post this year after Bill Walsh's graduation and has been an oft'ensive stalwart at that post all season. This 23-year-old senior came to Notre Dame from Cincinnati, Ohio, where he won five varsity athletic letters at Purcell high school and captained both the football and basketball squads in 1944-45. He won the Spring practice Hering award at N.D. in 1948 as the best blocking center. Walt is a student in the College of Commerce, majoring in business administration. He hopes to enter sales woi-k after graduation in June. Like many other Irish gridders, bridge is his favorite hobby, and his biggest thrill in sports is playing for Notre Dame. 
James Hamby .. . Another promising sophomore who saw his share of action at center during this season, Jim comes from Caruthers­ville, Mo., although he is originally from Arkansas. He took four letters in football and three in basketball at Caruthersville high school. Jim is a member of the R.O.T.C. here and plans to major in Journalism. He recalls scoring a touchdown on an intercepted pass against East Prairie high school in his junior year at Caruthersville as his biggest moment on the gridiron. He is in the College of Arts and Letters and claims French as his favorite subject. 
John Heiwig . . . This 21-year-old Irish guard playing his first varsitj' season for Notice Dame, Johnny has been an outstanding de­fensive line-backer throughout the season, foiling enemy passes and throwing ball carriers for nice losses. A shot-putter of note, he holds both the indoor and outdoor records at N.D. While attending Mt. Carmel high school in his Los Angeles home town, he set the national scholastic record with a 59' 5%" heave, which he says was his most thrilling moment in sports. He also won letters in football and wrestling. A junior in the College of Commerce, Johnny's post-graduation plans are yet undecided. Reading mystery stories are among his favorite pastimes. 
The Scholastic 

Edward Hudak . . . Product of Liberty high school in Bethlehem, Pa., has been one of the stalwarts in the Notre Dame tackle spot for the last two years. Winning letters and acting as co-captain in foot­ball, basketball, and track in high school, "Smiling Ed" twice grabbed all-state honors in football. Majoring in business administration, the 21-year-old senior is not sure of his future activities, but thinks he might go into coaching. His biggest thrill in football was starting on the defensive team against Southern California in 1948. Ed names ballroom dancing as his favorite after-hours activitv. 
Frank Johnson . . hailing from Cincinnati, Ohio, won the Hering award this spring as "best blocking guard". At St. Xavier high school he played three years of football, and acting as co-captain his last year was named on the all-Ohio team. He also won three letters in basketball and one in baseball. Now 22 years old, he served a five-month stint in the army. "Rodney" has no definite plans for after his graduation from the college of Commerce next January. Plajing cards—any kind—is his hobby, and he thinks his greatest sports thrill has been "playing on this year's team, with a gi'eat bunch of fellows and coaches." 
Robert Lolly . . . Bob is a senior guard from Cleveland, Ohio. Noted for his fine linebacking, he has won three monograms at N.D. He is in Law School and intends to practice after graduation. He graduated from Cathedral Latin high school in Cleveland, where he earned two letters in football and three in track. He was named to the Ohio all-state team in high school for two successive years. Bob says his favorite pastime is collecting stamps. (He calls himself a philatelist.) His most memorable moment on the football field was throwing halfback Bobby Jack Stuart for an eleven yard loss in the 1947 Notre Dame-Army game. 
John Landry . . . Moving into the fullb^ick slot this year. Jack showed his backfield versatility. A tall, black-haired junior from Rochester, N. Y., he won two letters in football at Aquinas Institute under coach Harry Wright, former ND gi-id star, receiving a Most Valuable Player award as well. He saw two years of service with the Navy during the war, including action at Leyte Gulf, and en­tered ND at the age of 21. He is majoring in Physical Education and hopes for a coaching job upon graduation. The whistling wind of a ski run and the crescendo of a Beethoven Sjonphony hold top place in Jack's favorite schemes for relaxing. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
John Mazur .. . This sophomore quarterback has capably filled Bob Williams' shoes for part of practically every game this season. John is 19 years old and comes from Plymouth, Pa., where he attended Plymouth high school and totaled seven letters in various sports. He is majoring in Physical Education and hopes to get a coaching job after graduation. Oddly enough, his biggest sports thrill came on the basketball floor when he tied an important high school game in the closing seconds with a field goal. (Plymouth won the game bj'' one point.) 
Ralph McGehee . .. Moving into his own at Notre Dame's starting right tackle post this year, Ealph consistently broke through enemy ranks to throw ball carriers for losses. This quiet, friendly 21-year­old senior is a native of Chicago, where he won three football letters at Tilden Tech while playing with team mates Mike Swistowicz and Bill Gay. At Notre Dame he won the Hering award in 1948 as the best blocking tackle. A student in the College of Commerce, Ralph is majoring in marketing, but he hopes to coach after leaving N.D. Like many another Irish gridder, he considers playing for Notre Dame his best sports thrill. 
James Mutscheller . . . 19-year-old sophomore and from Beaver Falls, Pa., shot up out of the ranks to take over a starting defensive position in some of the games this season. At Beaver Falls high school he won monograms in football, basketball and baseball, and in his senior.year was captain of the football team and was named on the all-Western Pennsylvania team. He is majoring in business administration, and since he expects to be at Notre Dame until June, 1952, his post-graduation plans are very indefinite. Jim's hobby is participation in any kind of athletics, and his greatest sports thrill was in learning that he would be able to come to Notre Dame and play football. 
^*, 

Stephen Oracko . . . Notre Dame's talented extra point expert. Amiable Steve's educated right foot has consistently booted the ball for points after touchdown, though the Irish seldom needed them this year. Playing from the guard position, he has also proven his mettle on defense when in games. Steve's home is Lansford, Pa., where he won two monograms for football. He is 22 years old, is majoring in education at Notre Dame, and hopes to teach and coach after graduation this June. His favorite hobbies are dancing and fishing, and his biggest athletic thrill was kicking that all-important PAT in the Southern California game last year. 
The Scholastic 

Chester Ostrowski . . . This sophomore end is memorable as one of the "Ostrowski and Zmijewski" tackling team that blared con­tinuously from the Notre Dame Stadium loudspeaker during the Tulane game this year. Chet is 19 years old and a native of Chicago, 
111. He is a gi-aduate of Weber high school in Chicago, where he piled up basketball and football letters and was selected to all-city and all-state teams. He is in the College of Arts and Letters, but has not decided upon a major subject. He names playing against Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell in last year's frosh-varsity game as his biggest gridiron moment. 
John Petitbon .. . A fleet-footed defensive halfback, Petitbon has shown great promise among this year's sophomores. His speed has been a major factor in stopping several potential touchdown spurts by opponents during the season. Johnny comes from New Orleans, La., where he won three letters in football, three in track and one in baseball at Jesuit high school. He was given the Hering award for the best tackling back in spring practice last year. "Petty" is in the school of Commerce and tentatively eyes law school, and later, law practice, after gi'aduation. His gi'eatest thrill in sports was starting on defense against Tulane this year. 
Emil Sitko . . . Hiding his red hair under a fullback helmet, this 26-year-old Fort Wayne, Ind., stalwart has been an Irish workhorse for four years. His long ball playing career includes four years at Fort Wayne Central high school and three and a half years with the Navy. He received the Most Valuable Player award for the Notre Dame-Navy game of 1948 and was picked to Grantland Rice's All-America team last year. "Red" is married, has no children. He is in the College of Arts and Letters and majors in economics. He says plajang for Great Lakes in the Notre Dame game of 1943, which Great Lakes won 19-14, was his biggest sports thrill. 
Francis Spaniel . . . Left an outstanding four yeai- record in both football and basketball in home-towTi Vandergi-ift, Pa., before jour­neying to northern Indiana to continue his football career. While at Vandergi'ift High the curly, black haired star earned a post on the all-Pennsylvania team two years running. Majoring in Business Administration, Frank hasn't made any post-graduation plans. His unmarried status and 21 years makes him an eligible bachelor but Frank remains silent on that side of his life. Playing as fullback against his former Vandergrift teammates in the 1948 Notre Dame-Pitt game he experienced his greatest sports thrill. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
Michael Swistowicz . . . One of the hardest driving Irish backs, stockj' Mike has just completed his last season for Notre Dame. Always a standout in defensive play, he has scored but seldom for 
N.D. but his charging runs consistenth' advanced the ball for valuable yardage. Gaining his prep experience at Tilden Tech in his home­town, Chicago, Mike won varsity monograms in four sports, foot­ball, baseball, track and speed skating. He was named for all-state grid honors in '44 and '45. At Notre Dame he won the Hering award in 1947. Majoring in economics, his plans are still uncertain after graduation this June. His biggest sports thrill is playing so long with an undefeated team. 
Robert Toneff .. . It looks like a new "Moose" on the ND gridiron. As a sophomore fledgling. Bob proved his ability at the right tackle post this year. He comes from Barberton, Ohio, and graduated from Barberton High School where he received letters in football, basket­ball and track. He is 19 years old and majors in physical education at Notre Dame. Like so many other players he names just playing with the Irish as his biggest gridiron thrill. After graduation. Bob has a possible coaching job in mind. He enjoys going to the movies, and swims eveiy chance he gets. 
Frederick Wallner . . . Fred played the fullback spot as under­study to "Pep" Panelli last year, but was moved to guard in spring-practice and has showai equal worth in that position all season. He is 21 and comes from Greenfield, Mass. He won three letters in foot­ball, basketball and baseball, respectively, at Greenfield high school and received a trophj'' as the most valuable player in the Western Massachusetts Conference. He was named to prep all-state elevens for two successive years. Fred is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in Education. He hopes to play pro-ball after graduation. 
Douglas Waybright. . . Stored his letters won in five different sports at Saugus, Mass., and set out for Notre Dame after a short stretch in the army. The crinky blonde lad then proceeded to win three football monograms as an end for Frank Leahy. Football is still in his blood, though, as he hopes to play pro ball after doing some graduate work in Business Administration. Doug can usually be found absorbed in a bridge game with partner Sitko, when he's not thumbing through Thomas Wolfe novels. Right now Doug is preparing for his January graduation in economics after completing another successful year on the gridiron. 
The Scholastic 

William Wightkin . . . Famed for snagging touchdo^\^l passes at left end, Bill is a senior this year. He rooms with another end who also snags a few passes, Leon Hart. Bill is 22 years old and lives in Culver City, Calif. He went to high school in Detroit, Mich., at Catholic Central, where he won two letters each in football, basket­ball and baseball. He majors in Mechanical Engineering and has maintained an honor scholastic rating. Bill served 11 months in the Coast Guard during the war. He is genial and easy-going, with a reputation as a humorist on the team trips. 
Robert Williams . .. Bob proved early in season that he is a fitting successor to the Bertelli, Lujack, Tripucka tradition and has offered further proof in each additional game. Bob is 19 and comes from Baltimore, Md., where he attended Loyola high school. He partici­pated in high school, football, basketball and baseball and was named to All-State teams in each sport. He is a Journalism major in the College of Arts and Letters and names tennis as his favorite pasttime. He has no post-graduation plans, but admits that pro ball is a possibility. His biggest sports thrill was the Michigan State game this j'^ear. 
Ernest Zaiejski . . . The pride of South Bend, came to Notre Dame highly recommended from Washington High. Starring on Washing­ton's football, basketball and baseball teams for three years he captured nine monogi-ams and won the South Bend Ti-ibune's award for the most valuable plaj'er in the Northern Indiana Conference in 1944 and two all-Indiana awards. The Army delayed his entrance into Notre Dame for two years while Ernie 'toured' the Phillippines and Japan. Unmarried and 23 years old, he hopes to enter sales work after he gets his degi'ee in business administration. When queried, Ernie didn't hesitate to admit that his hobby is collecting poems. 
Alfred Zmijewski . . . 21-year-old senior from Newark, N. J., at­tained football notoriety through his knack for scoring touchdowns from his tackle position. In the 1947 Southern California game Al intercepted a lateral and went the distance, and in the 1948 Purdue game he grabbed a partially blocked pass out of the air and went for another six points. At East Side high school, Al went out for football, basketball, and baseball, winning three monogi'ams in each sport and acting as captain of the football team his senior year. In his last two years he made all-state in football. Majoring in mechanical engineering, Al has no definite post-gi-aduation plans. His favorite pastime, next to scoring touchdo\\Tis, is watching other sporting events. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
Callahan's Creir 
Publicizing the Irish Football Team Is a Big Job For Charlie And Aides 
Nation's top sportswrlters watch game. 
By HARRY MONAHAN 

Take the noise of a boiler factory. Give four people more work to do than the police emergency squad when the American Legion convention conies to town. Shove them all into Fibber Mc­Gee's closet and I know just the sign to put on the door—"Charles M. Callahan, Publicity:' 
Charlie Callahan is the source of No­tre Dame sports information for 1,100 press and radio outlets. During football season his office is the target for tele­phone calls, telegi-anis, letters and per­sonal visits from the thousands who fol­low or write about football. Charlie's cluttered cubby-hole office in Breen-Phillips Hall, with its frantic routine of long distance phone calls backed up six deep and three assistants trying to meet the needs and deadlines of every major newspaper in the country, never fails to amaze the visiting fireman from New York, Chicago or Los Angeles. 
Assisted by the most jjublicized sec­retary in the country, Miss Maura Mills known to thousands of readers of Sport­ing Neivs as the "girl with the million dollar legs" thanks to the press agent work of Jack Clowser of the Cleveland Press—Charlie handles over a thousand requests a season for space in the Notre Dame stadium press box. Assigning space and mailing tickets puts the staff on night work about ten days before each home game. 
Charlie's two phones ring constantly— those boiler factory rivet guns couldn't jangle your nerves as much as that phone bell does. But five minutes on the phone with a Chicago, New York, De­troit or New Orleans sjjorts editor can produce a few extra inches of publicity the following morning. Joe Archibald, journalism major from Chicago, is the student assistant who keeps the office clipping files up to date. He has to wield a speedy pair of shears to keep pace with the daily arrival of 15 newspapers. Press notices, good or bad, go into the big black scrapbook or the players' and coaches' individual files. In a week's time, let alone in a full season, they make a tidy pile of newsprint with an Irish flavor. 
My job around the office is just this, writing. It might be a short feature story or a quick rundown on statistics for our weekly six to eight page press release which is dispatched to a mailing list of 1,100. There is fan mail to answer as Joe Football Fan wants to know who won the toss in the Tulane game, or how many Notre Dame players got into the Michigan State game, or how many times Notre Dame has played in the Rose Bowl. Sometimes it takes all four of us to find the answers but their letters are answered as the pressure of urgent bus­iness permits. 
By far the biggest and most important job is supplying information to news­papers and magazines so their waiters can i^repare their own stories about No­tre Dame. Behind 75% of the stories on Notre Dame which appear in print was a letter or a sheaf of notes sent out from our office. 
And who's the guy behind all this. That's Charlie. Al Stump described him in the Saturday Evening Post as a "stringbeanish, gravel-throated young man of 33." But that hardly scratches the surface of the Notre Dame publici­tor with his pessimism which almost out­does Coach Leahy and the battered brown hat he has worn to eveiy Notre Dame game since he took over the cam­pus huckster job. He treats that cha­peau as tenderly as other men do a fa­vorite pipe. He manages to make the Aisiting newspaper men feel as comfort­able as that old hat looks and in that lies his success with the Notre Dame publi­city job. The newspaperman who is shown hospitality and given ready access to story material will treat his host fair­ly, even when criticizing, and that's all Charlie asks in return. 
Joe Archibald and Harry Monahan pour over grid scrapbook. Co-captain Martin reports to Maura Mills and Charlie Callahan. 
The Scholastic 



liniment & Ne^i^ Jerseys 
Trainer Hugh Burns and Equipment Manager McAllister Serve Gridmen 
By DAN BRENNAN 
"He's the best trainer in the coun­try— and you can quote me on that," said one of the athletes in the Notre Dame training room the other day. 
And he is. Named Trainer of the Year in 1947, Hugh Burns has stepped into the shoes of Scrapiron Young and more than filled them. He is respon­sible for the physical conditioning of Notre Dame football teams. 
Hughie Burns was born in Seattle, Wash., on July 3, 1916, but spent most of his life in nearby Michigan City, Ind., where he now lives. He showed his inclination to sports early at St. Mary's High School, Michigan City, where he was a leader in baseball, basketball, and football. 
In 1939 Hughie came to Notre Dame, and in due course he received a degree in physical education. During his stay as an undei-grad Burns worked for three years as an assistant trainer to Scrapiron Young. After continuing his studies for two years in Chicago and New York, Burns became head trainer and backfield coach at Xavier College in Cincinnati. But the war came along, Xavier suspended athletics and Bums joined the Marines. Following an 18­month hitch he returned to Cincinnati as head football and basketball coach at Eoger Bacon high school. 
In 1945 Hughie was snapped up by Notre Dame when Scrap Young re­signed. Since then the amiable Mr. 
Burns has reigned in Notre Dame con­
ditioning. 
His job is a tremendous one. For one thing he has to wind a lot of tape and gauze around ailing athletes' injured parts. He estimates that so far this year he has used nearly 70 miles of tape. And he uses half as much gauze. He is in charge of the use of numerous mechanisms which heal Irish injuries. These machines in­clude diathermy machines, infra-red and ultra-violet lamps and whirlpools and even a fluoroscope. 
Burns disdains the use of commer­cially-prepared liniments, preferring to mix his O%\TI. Thoroughness character­izes all his work. For instance, when the team has a game away from home he takes sotne of evei-jrthing he has in the home training rooms, even his own stretcher. 
Aside from his work around the trainer's table, Hugh still likes to ex­ei'cise. He describes bowling as the most challenging sport he ever ran into. But he seems to have met the challenge for he sports a classy 194 average in the Michigan City Leagues. He never has rolled a perfect game, 
Sixty-four-year-old John W. McAl­lister is superintendent of equipment for all Notre Dame athletic teams. But you'll never get him to tell about it. The "strong, silent type" Mac is in his 26th year supervising the care of all athletic equipment. 
John McAllister checks over equipment. 
Each day he supei^vises the distri­bution of equipment to the players. This involves sorting and passing out four huge bags of freshly-laundered "whites," T-shirts, sox, and so forth. In addition regular equipment must be kept constantly available. 
One of Mac's biggest jobs is prepar­ing for the games away from home. For all these trips 18 trunks must be packed and sent on ahead of the team. The tiiinks contain some 125 pairs of game shoes, four changes of uniform for 36 men, 50 blankets and five changes of the whites, in addition to the rarely-used 45 pairs of rubber rain pants. 
McAllister is not alone in this work, however, for he has four assistants who are invaluable. These men, John and Jim Herr, Joe Kigali, and Pat Coughlin, are the front men for Mac and Ho all of the routine work in the department. 
In ticket office, Bob Cahill and aide check over stub numbers. Hushie Burns, expert dispenser of medical advice, tapes ankle. 
Dec. 9, 1949 27. 

Aboard the Team's Ti'aiii 
Team attends Catholic University Mass. 
By JIM MCLAUGHLIN SCHOLASTIC Staff Photographer 

"Wightkin, Williams, Zalejski, Zmi­jewski; everybody's here." The bus roars down Notre Dame Avenue and the last twinkling lights of the University fade away. Another football trip is underway. As we sped south toward the station in La Paz, Ind., where we will board the train for Baltimore, the managers pass out copies of the trip itinerary. Travel­ing with the Notre Dame football team one can't help but wonder at the preci­sion with which your weekend is handl­ed. Ringling Brothers are supposed to be masters of planned traveling, but their circus troupes have nothing on No­tre Dame. 
On a football trij) your itinerary is 
your Bible. It tells you where to go and when from the moment you leave the campus until the moment you return. Nothing is forgotten in the planning of the trip. One note from the Navy itiner­ary which will illustrate the omniscient character of this little document was, "Thursday, Oct. 27, 10 p. m. Retire (set watches ahead one hour)." Your itiner­ary leaves nothing to your memory, it tells you in black and white just what to do at any given moment. 
The trip to Baltimore this year for the annual game with the U. S. Naval Academy is a classic example of the careful planning which goes into making a Notre Dame football trip. We left the circle at Notre Dame at 5 p. m. on Oct. 27, we arrived at La Paz, Ind., at 5:40 
p. m. At 5:4.3 we were on the train and berths were being assigned. By 6:30 we were having dinner in the private team diner. The official i}arty which includes team, coaches, managers, athletic office and University officials, newspapermen and guests, occupied five private cars all appropriately numbered, ND 3, ND 4, etc. Aside fi'om the official party, several baggage cars filled with trunks carry­ing the vital jerseys and helmets and other football armor complete the cara­van. 
When 10 o'clock came the team turned in, for a busy day of practice awaits them on the morrow. We arrived in Washington, D. C, at 8:30 Friday morn­ing. Special busses were waiting to take the party to Mass and breakfast at Holy Cross College, Catholic University. At Holy Cross—the Wa.shington study house 
for the Holy Ci'oss order—many friend­ships were renewed with the seminarians who had been in class with some of us here at ND. Following Mass we break­fasted at the college and re-boarded the busses. They were special sightseeing vehicles and as we sjied to Union Station we were briefed on the historic monu­ments of the Nation's capital. Tlien the party proceeded to Baltimore and the Emerson Hotel. Police escorts were the order of the day in Baltimore and there was little trouble with traffic jams. Rooms were assigned following lunch in one of the private dining rooms, and at 2:30 the team was sijeeding out to practice in Babe Ruth Stadium. National Cham­pions require good food in considerable quantities and that is exactly what was provided at dinner after practice. Once again the team had to retire at ten in preparation for the coming game. 
Saturday. The big day had dawned! The team went to Mass at nine and re­turned to the hotel for bi-eakfast. Spe­cial busses hustled them out to the sta­dium at 11:30. Tlie game which is now history, was taken in stride and the team after fighting their way through a horde of fans outside the dressing room was whisked back to the hotel with a special police escort. After a hard fought vic­tory, relaxation was in order, and the party was at liberty until Sunday after­noon. 
The caravan entrained at 3:00 p. m. Sunday and all was over but the mem­ories. Special busses were waiting in La Paz to bring the trippers back to the campus Monday morning. 
# 
# 

Crowd and photographers meet Irish team on arrival in Washington. Card games help team pass time during long journey. 
i
The Scholastic

28 
Dec. 9, 1949 




Indiana Falls Ist^ 49-6 
By JOE HERRINGTON 
Coutre scoots by Hoosier. 

"Those Notre Dame fans who took seriously Coach Frank Leahy's forecast of a bleak season found their tension relieved this after­noon . . ."—^David Condon, Chicago "Tri­bune." 
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 24.—^It took Notre Dam.e's 1949 grid machine two quarters to get organized, but after that the Irish had no trouble as they rolled over Indiana 49 to 6 today before a slightly-less-than-capacity crowd in the Notre Dame stadium. 
During the first 30 minutes, Indiana's valiant sophomores fought well, and the Irish were lucky to hold a 19 to 6 mar­gin at halftune. Statistics for the first half showed that the Hoosiers scored nine first downs to four for Notre Dame, though the home team had a little more yardage. 
The Irish won the toss and chose to receive. They had little luck at gaining 
V^^ 

and punted to Ernie Huggett who fum­bled for the Hoosiers, Notre Dame's Jer­ry Groom falling on the ball on Indiana's 24-yard line. A moment later, hoAvever, Huggett recovered Larry Coutre's fumble to even things up. 
Notre Dame started a scoring march from their own 48 the next time they had the ball. Coutre carried to Indiana's 17-yard lina after receiving a fourth-down pass from quarterback Bob Wil­liams. Three plays later Sitko spun over the goal, and Steve Oracko converted to put the Irish in front. 
After a second quarter exchange of punts, Sebek was forced to kick from behind his own goal, and Toneff barged in to block the kick and add two points for Notre Dame. 
The Hoosiers settled down to getting what was to be their only score. After marching 41 yards, Sellers broke away from Irish tacklers to go 17 yards and score. Huggett's kick was wide. 
Notre Dame's second touchdow^n came after four running plays and a pass. Starting on their 39, where Coutre had returned the kick, the Irish got down to the enemy 28 with 4 tries. Gay made an almost impossible catch of Williams' pass on the 12 and w^ent over easily. Oracko converted again to make the score 16 to 6 at half-tima. 
In the second half, the Hoosiers seem­ed to tire and the Irish had no difficulty in boosting the score. Sitko scored his second touchdown early in the third pe­riod, when he scurried through left tackle for six yards and the score. 
A few minutes later, Coutre scored 
* v^ 
•W'^ 

from the 13, after Gay had set up the score by returning a punt for 50 yards. Oracko kicked the extra point to make the score 29 to 6, his pre\aous attempt being blocked. 
Near the end of the quarter, Sitko tal­lied again on a six yard dash and Orac­ko's kick was perfect. 
One of the Irish reserves, Mike Swis­towicz, climaxed a 57 yard fourth pe­riod drive by scoring from one yard out. Oracko came through again. 
The final Notre Dame tally came on a pass by second-string quarterback John Mazur, who flipped the ball 17 yards to end Bill Wightkin for the touchdown. The Indiana line prevented Oracko from converting. 
The victory was the 29th straight game without defeat for Notre Dame, who lost its last game in 1945. Though favored to win, the margin the Irish rolled up may be an indication that Leahy's winning trend is to continue. Losses from the team by graduation didn't seem important today. Williams appears to be a capable replacement for Johnny Lujack, and the Irish still have such stalwarts as Leon Hart, Jim Mar­tin and Emil Sitko. 
Although they started sluggishly, the final statistics gave Notre Dame 231 yards gained on the ground to 72 for Indiana. The Hoosiers stood out slightly in passing, gaining 89 yards on nine completions out of 17 attempts. The Irish gained 87 yards through the air with six passes. Williams and Mazur attempted 
13. Strange as it may seem, the first downs Avere equal: twelve for each team. 
m 

Mike Swistowicz scores sixth touchdown against Indiana. Other Irish are Paul Burns (64). Bill Barrett (37) and Fred Wallner (63). 
30 The Scholastic 
^^^^-'^^'•^^M^^m^^:^i^^^ii^i^fQii^^^^ifmm^^ 
•ml'-; •• 
liM^'' 

•t'^'WSVJU"^ B'rf*^^ 
..«^'S<v*^'*;-s»f 
^5,* * W 

Hart's hard tackle makes Huskies' O'Leary fumble; Irish recover. Washington downs Sitko as Spaniel (28) tries to help out. 
•Irish Go to Seattle and Win 27-7 
Seattle, Wash., Oct. 1.—A fired-up pack of Washington Htiskies gave 41,000 partisan fans two thrill-packed periods of football hers today before succumbing to the green-clad legions of Notre Dame, 27-7. 
The largest crowd ever to look in on a football game in Husky Stadium saw their favorites fight yard for yard with the Irish throughout the first half and accorded them a rousing ova­tion as they left the field at intermis­sion with a 7-7 deadlock. Any hopes of a possible upset by the local forces were quickly smothered, however, as the Irish capitalized on Washington errors to register twice in the third period and once in the fourth, thus 

<-• making the Huskies link number 30 in the Notre Dame chain of games A^ithout defeat. 
According to statistics, it was Notre Dame's game all the way. Ii'ish su­periority in every department was clearly evident and only the work of the officials kept the contest from be­coming a repetition of last year's 46-0 debacle in the series inaugural at South Bend. 
Washington opened the scoring col­umn in the very first period. With Notre Dame on the attack, Larry Coutre fumbled and Husky John Fre­chek recovered on his o^vn 45-yard line. On the first play from scrimmage, Don Heinrich dropped back from under cen­ter in the wingsd-T formation and hit Koland Kirkby in the clear on the Notre Dame 40. The speedy Husky halfback never slackened stride until he went over standing up. Jim Eo-
Dec. 9, 1949 
By JACK MEANEY 
enzweig added the extra point and it was 7-0, Washington. 
With a seven-point advantage, the Husky line became tougher and, coupled with numerous 15-yard penalties against the Irish that rankled even the most placid Green Shii-ts, Notre Dame's offense became a stop and go affair. Not until the closing minutes of the first half were Leahy's lads able to even it up. 
Starting from their own 39, the Irish rolled to the Husky 21 on carries by Emil Sitko, Bill Gay and Larry Coutre sandwiched around a Bob Wil­liams-to-Gay aerial. With the minute 
"Customers saw what is probably the fastest and hardest running backfield in America"— Mike Donohoe, Seattle "Post-Intelligencer." 
hand on the scoreboard clock i-acing toward zero, Williams dropped back and fired a strike to Leon Hart on the three and big Leon took it across. Steve Oracko's place-kick made it 7-all at half time. 
Washington took the second half kickoff and, unable to gain, kicked to the Irish 26. Notre Dame rolled up one first do^vn before being forced to kick back and Williams' long boot went into the end zone for an auto­matic touchback. Again the Huskies were forced to punt but this time Bob Toneff crashed through the Husky kick defense to block Don O'Leary's kick. Bill Flynn recovering on the 14. It took the Irish just two plays to score. Sitko, leading ground gainer of the afternoon, hit over tackle to the six. 

Leon Hart took a handoff from Wil­liams and careened around the Husky right flank for the score. Steve Oracko failed to add the point and Notre Dame led, 13-7. 
Now it was Washington's turn to open up. Taking advantage of the Irish's close packed diamond defense, O'Leary started whipping short. buUet passes to his two ends, Joe Cloidt and Fritz Apking. Aided by defensive hold­ing penalties, the drive carried to the ND 29. Here the front line stiffened and dz"opped O'Leaiy for a two-yard loss on fourth down when he found no open receiver oi^ an attempted jump pass. Never again did the Huskies threaten. 
A few minutes later, Notre Dame sti'uck again. Henry Tiedernann was hit hai'd at the line of scrimmage, caus­ing him to fumble and John Helwig corraled the loose pigskin for the Irish on the enemy 36. Frank Spaniel ground out six to the 30. Coutre went over left tackle, hit the secondary with two blockers in front of him and romped all the way home in the best offensive play of the day. Oracko's kick made it 20-7. 
Fljmn set up the last touchdown by recovering O'Leary's fumble on the 18 after the Husky play-caller was nearly snapped in half by a vicious Hart tackle. As a reward, Williams called Hart's play on an end-around and the giant Pennsylvaiiian ate up 12 yards. Spaniel smashed to the three. After the teams had changed goals for the final quarter. Jack Landry drove over for the touchdown. Oracko's kick was true to make the final count read Notre Dame 27, Washington 7. 
^5?*^^i'-'-:/S^*i*l^-
Soph speedster, Bill Barrett (37), circles his left end for six yards and Notre Dame's last touchdown against the Boilermakers. 

Irish Trip Boilermaliers 35-12 ^ 
West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 8.—Tlie Fighting Irish of Notre Dame tied the thirty-first knot in their undefeated string today by defeating the Boiler­makers of Purdue, 35-12, before a capa­citjT crowd of 52,000 here at Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium. 
It was a great day for Emil Sitko as the redhaired fullback scampered for the first three Irish touchdo^\^lS. Taking over on the ND six after a first period Purdue drive, Sitko picked up 13 yards, but an illegal use of the hands penalty carried the ball back to the Irish four. Then halfback Frank Spaniel exploded through the Purdue eleven, racing 55 yards to the Purdue 41. The shocked Boilei-makers had little time to gain their composure for on the next play Sitko bi'oke away for 41 yards and six points. Extra point si^ecialist Steve Oracko made the conversion and Notre Dame led, 7-0. 
In the closing minutes of the first pe­riod, Purdue punted to the Notre Dame 42 and the Irish were on the march again. Larry Coutre and Sitko combined to run the pigskin to the Purdue 48 from which Coutre scampered to the Boiler­maker nine to end the first period. 
Coutre picked up five and Sitko cata­pulted the remaining four yards for the second Irish TD. Oracko split the up­rights and Notre Dame led, 14-0. 
Oracko kicked oif and Purdue drove to the Irish 33, only to have their march halted by an Adams fumble with John Petitbon recovering-. ND was off again. Coutre, Spaniel, Williams and Leon Hart combined to hammer their way down to the Purdue nine from which Sitko drove for his third six-pointer of the after­noon. Again Oracko's kick was good. 
By JACK VARLEY 

Adams returned the ball to the 45. Gor­gal then faded and passed, but it was a green-shirted lad, Bill Gay, who snatch­ed the ball and ran 61 yards for the Pur­due goal. Oracko's kick was again good and the Fighting Ii-ish led 28-0 at the half. 
Another interception led to another Irish touchdown in the third period when Gorgal passed from the Irish 18. Johnny Helwig intercepted and ran to the Pur­due's 46. Williams passed to Jim Mut­scheller to place the ball on the Pur­due 34. Jack Landry and Barrett com­bined to carry it to the six from where Barrett scored. Oracko convei'ted and the South Bend lads led, 35-0. 
The Boilermakers didn't get their ma­chinery operating until the last period. Starting on their own 35 the gallants of "Stu" Holcomb, led by Szulborski and Bob Hartman, drove to the Irish four. Two plays later, Kerestes smashed through for the score. 
With more incentive than they had previously displayed in the whole game, the Boilermakers were again on the move. Taking the ball on their own two Adams and Kerestes drove to the nine. Then Bill Skowron, on a fake punt, ran to the Irish 31. With an overwhelming thirst for another score, Kerestes and Adams pounded the Irish forward wall until the ball lay on the Notre Dame 15 yard marker. Szulborski then went the remaining yardage to score the last points of the afternoon. 
" -<?::v.'^-v-iZ^; ~r?.>, r m^TJ^% 
Late in the second ijeriod Williams 
punted to the Purdue 28 from which 

Purdue's linebackers find that downing Fullback Mike Swistowicz isn't an easy job. 
The Scholastic 
_21i 

• Tulane Routed 46-7 
By HARRY MONAHAN 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 15.—The big Green Wave from Dixie became a little ripple in a big pond today as Noti-e Dame crushed Tulane, 46-7, before 
• 
58,186 spectators crammed in Notre Dame stadium. Tulane showed oijly one spark of life — a 76-yard scoring pass play to open the second half; the other 59 minutes of the game were all Irish. 
Larry "Scooter" Coutre struck the Green Wave like a red-haired lightning bolt, not twice, but three times in the first ten minutes of the game to start the overpowering Notre Dame scoring. Eight halfback Frank Spaniel took a 38-yard pass from quarterback Bob Williams to give the Irish a 27-0 lead at the end of the first quarter. 
A short 14-yard dash through cen­ter by Coutre scored the first of seven Irish touchdoA\ms. A few minutes later the elusive little speedster took a pitch-out from Williams on the Notre Dame 19-yard line and, behind pei"fect block­ing, scampei-ed 81 yards for six more points. What seemed but moments later, Bill Wightkin, Irish left end, caught a looping pass from Williams that was good to the Tulane two-yard line from where Coutre plowed through center for his third tally. 
A second quarter exchange of punts gave Notre Dame the ball on their o\\Ti 20. Williams put together a 19­yard bootleg run of his own and a 44-yard pass to Wightkin with runs by Bill Gay and Bill Barrett to reach the Tulane 20. Eight end Leon Hart reached high in the end zone to grab another Williams pass and Notre Dame was ahead 33-0 at halftime. 
The Southerners tried to get back in the game as the second half opened. Tulane halfback George Kinek eluded Coutre and took a pass from quarter­back Bill Bonar to score on a 76-yard sideline dash. Euel Davis' placement was good. 

Passes to Hart and Wightkin and another bootleg run by Williams sparked Notre Dame's retuiTi of the Tulane kick-off and Spaniel went 11 yards over right tackle for another touchdown. 
Neither team was able to get a drive started in the rest of the third quarter-. A Tulane punt gave Notre Dame the ball on the Irish 39-yard line as the third quarter ended. ND 40, Tulane 7. 
As the last period began, Barrett hit the line for two yards. On the next play he found a hole over his own left tackle, shot into the Green Wave sec­ondary, reversed his field to the right sideline and, escorted by his roommate, halfback John Petitbon, raced 59 yards for the last Irish touchdowTi. Petitbon, 
"From the first ringing impact of knuckle upon nose . . . this Saturday's No. 1 spec­tacle was one-sided as an election in Mos­cow."—Walter Stewart, Alemphb "Commer­cial Appeal." 
a New Orleans lad, cleared the last Tulane defender fi'om Billy's path with a tremendous block on the Green Wave 10-yard line. 
While he missed the placement fol­lowng Barrett's touchdo-v\Ti, Steve Oracko did split the uprights on four of his seven attempts. 
Coach Frank Leahy cleaned the Irish bench as he used 55 players in what he had predicted would be "the toughest game" since he took over the Notre Dame coaching reins in 1941. 
There's plenty of blocking ahead as All-America fullback Emil Sitko goes through for 
Coutre dances; Tulane man grabs air. 
As the game which was supposed to pit the two foremost candidates for the national championship, it was a dis­appointing contest. For a demonstra­tion of the Leahy brand of perfection in football it was a thriller for the first half. 
In that first 30 minutes of the game the Irish could do no wrong. Their blocks were hard and right, the Irish backs found the holes opening wide for long gi'ound gaining gallops and the Tulane ground attack was stopped cold. Tulane's AU-American fullback can­didate Eddie Price only gained 26 yards all afternoon (Coutre netted 101 yards on only four attempts), while the Green Wave ended np with a minus 23 yards gained on the ground. 
Bob Williams made an impressive bid to become a dark horse candidate for 1949 All-America honors as he gave Tulane the full triple threat treat­ment. He completed eight of 11 passes (two for touchdowns), his two punts averaged 40 yards, and he kept two scoring di-ives alive with his running. His direction of the Notre Dame of­fensive strategy was flawless. 
a big gain in the first quarter stampede. 

^^n^ 
i) k 
/( 
m % ® «A «­
. • uKSjPaKR*^­
•• A^»*" 
^^m 
.^*-ia^* ^ r V,,.. / », 
V i 
*t^:V ?*=-??^ r­
'M^^ 
k^» 
*^ti^'^^^^r,eii^JS:3:Vfa»>Jt-i^r'!r&f=o •'».*i^jr '^i:^^^ J 
*^?ii 

:k^^^»/-v^/in>;»v^>w:.....^^»v.z.^^ -.—-•-.^/:..::-• v.. 
.^-\ ^•jvj^*' 
»••.<<• .c-%. 
:.-^ ^,.»*s..^* :^-.' 

n^" ^^!';'#% 
»%ii.'ft-.*-^"«. •••>«#i»«r5 •"».'• 
E.«S«5^%tisS^5 

^^mm?J^^^^ 



Middies Doomed 40-0 
By JACK JANOWSKI 
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 29.—Not even a soggy playing field could interfere with Notre Dame's Fighting Irish foot­ballers as they trounced a gallant Na^^' team 40-0 this overcast after­noon, and the 62,413 spectators that jammed Babe Huth Stadium witnessed precision football, ND style. 
Today's win over the future ad­mirals by the Leahy-led legions gives the Irish team an undefeated string of 33 games in a row, setting a new mod­ern collegiate record for consecutive games without a loss. 
Head Coach Frank Leahy almost missed the game because of illness, but 30 minutes before game time he was in the driver's seat of the Irish football machine thanks to the private plane of volunteer coach Fred Miller that brought Leahy from South Bend. 
Quarterback Williams, performing before a home towni crowd, engineered the Notre Dame powerhouse to a touchdowTi as soon as it got the ball. Four and one-half minutes after the kick-oif, Williams tossed a 23-yard aerial to Ernie Zalejski, South Bend speedster and surprise starting left-halfback, who took it in the clear on the NaA^ 25 and scooted over for the first Irish score. Steve Oracko con­verted to put Notre Dame ahead early in the game, 7-0. 
Navy received the Notre Dame kick­off and pushed from their own 40 with short gains to the Irish 18-yard line before surrendering the ball. When the Irish took over it looked like another scoring drive as Larry Coutre gathered in a long Williams pass on the Navy 40 and ran to the 26 before being stopped. A stubborn Middle line held the Notre Dame machine momentarily and took over on their 23 as the quar­ter ended. 
Navy once more drove deep into ND territory without success as the sec­ond quarter began. The Irish halted the scoring threat on their own 14 and proceeded from there to score again. After losing five yards, Coutre tore through Navj^'s tackle and sprinted 91 yards for Notre Dame's second touchdown. Oracko's try for the extra i:)oint was good. 
A few plays later, Emil "Red" Sitko fought his way through a galaxy of Na\'y defendei-s for 44 yards to the Navj'' 2.5-yard line. It was Sitko again, scoring on a 16-yard hurdle-plunge straight do\\Ti the middle. Oracko kicked his third extra point of the day and sent the Irish ahead, 21-0. 
The Middies failed to get their touchdowni fleet undei'way, so the Irish started goalward again from the Navy 
46. Two Williams passes in a row were snagged by Zalejski who took the sec­ond toss to score for Notre Dame. Oracko's try for the point failed and the half ended vnth ND ahead 27-0. 
AVith Noti-e Dame's second and third stringers seeing most of the action in the last half, the Ii-ish "all-the-way" methods slowed down but failed to come to a halt. Notre Dame didn't 
Ernie Zalejski scores on Williams pass. 
throw a forward pass in the final half and the ND subs got a chance to show their strength. 
Early in the third period a 54-yard Irish offensive drive was climaxed by a 14-yard scoring dash by fullback Jack Landry. John Petitbon, sopho­moi-e Irish defensive ace, tried his hand at extra point kicking but failed. Notre Dame 33, Navy 0. 
Ernie Zalejski became the star of the game when he sprinted 76 yards off the Navy tackle to register his third touchdo-\\m of the day. Sopho­more Billy Barrett threw the key block that sent Zalejski to pay dirt. Oracko made the conversion and the score stood at 40-0 until the final whistle. 
# 

Landry runs — another ND touchdown. Steve Oracko converts with Bob Willianrts holding. McGehee (74) and Hart (82) block. 
^^ The Scholastic . # 
3^' « % 
K fe§3 
Z^^Lili^*^ 
Ej^jiXi$­

.ji^''*'*'*''^ 
Notre Dame's 'scatterback,' 250-pound Leon Hart, catches a pass from Bob Williams and scatters some Michigan State tacklers. 

Irish Stop Spartans, 
East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 5.—The mighty Irish of Notre Dame parlayed the number 34 into a double victory here this afternoon at Macklin Stadium, roll­ing over Michigan State, 34-21, for their 34th straight game without a loss. Bob Williams, 19-year-old magician masquer­ading as a quarterback, did tricks for the benefit of 51,277 people sitting in on the proceedings. He completed 13 of 16 passes for 178 yards, three for two touch­downs, ran 40 yards for another, put State in a hole twice with booming punts and called plays perfectly. 
Michigan State received the kickoff and got into Notre Dame's hair almost immediately. After an exchange of punts. State, with Grandelius as the spearhead, pushed to the Irish 31. An Al Dorow to Dorn Dibble pass put the ball on the seven, and Chandnois slashed to the two. On the next play, fullback Jim Blenk­horn hit the middle and got nowhere. He tried it again and did even worse this time. He fumbled, and the ever-present Leon Hart recovered on the two. 
Notre Dame got out of this jam, trad­ed intercepted passes with the Spartans, and then Williams got his first chance to shine. He punted from his own 46, and the ball stopped dead on the enemy four. Bill Gay took the return kick back 25 yards, behind fine blocking, to the Spar­tan 24. Larry Coutre picked up five, and Williams once more went into the magi­cian's act. He threw to Ernie Zalejski on the four, and Ernie, all by himself there, trotted over for the score. Steve Oracko converted, and ND led, early in the sec­ond quarter. 
Williams astonished everyone later in the period by fumbling on his o^vn five, and Coleman recovered for State. Two plays later, Grandelius turned his back to the scrimmage line, and jumped into the end zone for the score. George Smith hurried in, and booted the equalizer. 
By RAY FITZGERALD 
the count, and they just did beat the clock. Highlights of the 89 yard march were a pass from Williams from his OUTI end zone, and a jump-pass by the same gentleman when it was fourth down and two on State's 43. Bill Wightkin, the re­ceiver, got much more than the needed two yards. He went all the way to the State 22. Emil Sitko and Coutre ground out the rest of the yardage, with Coutre burrowing for the TD. Oracko did his chore, and it was 14-7, at halftime. 
Notre Dame never did give up the ball after the second half kickofF. In 8 plays they went 79 yards, and widened the gap to 20-7. With the ball on the State 40, Williams and Sitko started oif on one of their "here, you take the ball" jaunts around end. This time Williams faked the lateral to Sitko, and ran 40 yards for a touchdown. 
With 23 seconds of the last quarter gone and the ball on the Spartan 12, Sit­


 Chandnois 
ko burst through tackle, faked Chand­
nois into Eow 35 of the Stadium, and 
waltzed across for the fourth touchdown. 
Old man opportunity knocked once more shortly after, and ND opened the door to its iifth touchdown. Michigan State gambled and lost on fourth down from its ovm 36 and WiUiams took over. He threw one to Wightkin, and then pitched a scoring toss to Hart. 
The over-relaxed Irish soon had a couple of touchdowns thrown in their face by the always trying Spartans. Gene Glick tossed a short pass to Chand­nois who ran 83 yards down the side­lines, before John "Ten Second" Petit­bon caught up with him and threw him off stride. Spaniel caught up to the stum­bling Chandnois then and pushed Mm out of bounds—^in the Notre Dame six. Glick threw a touchdown pass to Carey on the next play. 
Michigan State scored again, shortly before the final gun, after Williams had tried unsuccessfiilly to complete a fourth down pass from his own 45. 
An Irish reception committee greets Spartan Ev Grandelius on the ND two-yard line. 
Notre Dame stormed back to unknot 

o 
37
Dec. 9, 1949 

•^^^ X 
S'.CA 

Emil SitIco plows through hole during North Carolina game as Billy Hayes (47) throws a long one just in time as Jim Martin 67,000 excited New Yorkers watched Irish play the Tarheels. (38) rushes through North Carolina line. The Irish won, 42-6. ( ^ 



]^ew York Sees 42-6 ND Victory 
By BILL RILEY 

New York City, Nov. 12.—For three over. A penalty nullified a second Tar­It was the fourth quarter which saw quarters this afternoon an inspired heel score, and the fireworks began. the full flood of Irish power wash over 
(• 

North Carolina team pulled oif heroics Frank Spaniel took off from his own 22 the Tarheels. Williams threw 11 yards that equalled the effoi-ts of the little and, with brilliant blocking, went all the to Spaniel for the first fourth period Dutch boy who held back the sea with way, 78 yards for the first Notre Dame touchdown. And Williams threw 29 his thumb in the dike. But the 67,000 touchdown. The Tarheels blocked their yards to Barrett for the second. In the persons who had jammed mammoth Yan­second kick in fifteen minutes and the interval Williams completed at least kee Stadium saw the dike finally break score remained 6-6 at the half. three passes more to fire the Irish march. in the third quarter as Bob Williams & 
Mike Swistowicz, not designed for Co. rushed down the field in an 85-yard By midway in the third quarter a gal­broken field running, went straight down march and then swamped the Carolin­axy of stars bright enough to illuminate the sidelines for a score after intercept­ians in the final period to win, 42-6. this gray November day had pounced ing a Tarheel pass on his own 15. Irish 
on a break and turned it into the first 
blockers knocked off potential tacklers 
The Justice-less Tarheels primed •
of five second half scores. Notre Dame 
who blocked Swistowicz' way with the their defense to stop Williams' deadly 
got a tremendous break when a fourth 
calmness and precision of skilled skeet passes, and they succeeded for half the 
do\vn roughing-the-kicker penalty gave 
shooters picking off clay pigeons. 
game. But Billy Barrett, Leon Hart and 
them a free first down. The Irish began Frank Spaniel shook wearying Carolina 
Barrett scored the final touchdown of defenders in the third and final quar­the game on a catch of an 18-yard pass ter; the Ii'ish passing attack looked as from Johnny Mazur, Williams' replace­awesomely eificient as in the Michigan 
"Notre Dame was more incredible than ever ment at quarterback. Steve Oracko set State game. while fulfillingwits-commitment with a king-up the score by recovering a Carolina size stomping of North Carolina yesterday 
fumble on the Tarheel 23. 
Before Williams, Barrett, et al., put 

afternoon." — Le^vis Burton, New York on their show, North Carolina challeng­Journal-American." 
Bunting, Billy Hayes, Iru Holdash, ed the Irish moi-e vigorously than had Powell and Art Weiner all played inspir­
any other team thus far this season. •
ed ball for Carolina. For most of the While the stadium was still partially un­first half the Tarheel line was over and filled, with less than three minutes of the to march. The touchdowTi came when through the Irish forward wall. But the game gone, Tarheel end Kenny Powell Williams passed to Leon Hart who, while second half told the story—^North Car­crashed the Notre Dame line and smoth­carrying a half-dozen Carolinians on his olina had a net minus of five yards on ered Williams' attempted kick from the back, lateraled the ball to pint-sized the ground. Altogether the statistics 
Irish ten-yard line. Dick Bunting, a tre­Billy Barrett. The fast Chicagoan dash­ are 
not enough to pi-aise the valiant fightmendous tailback who shouldn't Ms play­ed the rest of the way to a score. 
•that the Tarheels waged without the ing second string to anyone, carried  more help of their ace, Charlie Justice. How­twice for five yards a time, and a score. Notre Dame picked up two 
points as Hart grabbed and then muflFed ever, they showed once again the mighty Notre Dame came back, but only to a fimible by Bunting and I'ecovered in power of Frank Leahy's great Green midfield or so, and Carolina again took the North Carolina end zone. machine. 
38 The Scholastic 
s^.^^.:-^^.^.'^-^^-^•^'z>''•^.'^^!^:i'^^^-^,^^i;^^^^:^'y^^^ 

Hai^keyes Lose 28-7 
By JACK ECONOMOU 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 19.—For 39 minutes and ten seconds of a gruelling gridiron battle, the Iowa Hawkeyes fought valiantly to revive their jinx of a decade ago over the Irish of Notre Dame. Then, mercilessly shattering the illusion, the Leahymen drove 95 yards to pay dirt in the third quarter and finally won out, 28-7. 
The 56,790 fans were hardly seated when the Irish, with ridiculous ease, notched their first touchdown. Within four minutes after the opening whistle, Bill Gay recovered a Hawkeye fumble on the Iowa 32. After running plays ate up 12 yards. Bob Williams lofted a high aerial to Frank Spaniel in the end zone. Steve Oracko kicked and Williams held on the first of four successful conver­sions. The crowd settled back to witness the expected rout. 
The rest of the quarter, however, turn­ed into a punting duel as both squads were hampered by fumbles and penalties. Early in the second quarter, Louis Gins­berg, Hawkeye tackle, pounced upon a Williams fumble. Three running plays, one a 33-yard effort by Jerry Faske, put the lowans on the Irish five. Then, Glen Drahn jump-passed to Bob McKenzie for the touchdown and Don Commack's con­version tied it up. People began to won­der about this futility of the Irish. 
Shortly before half time, ND capital­ized on another break to again forge ahead. A Drahn punt, partially blocked by Leon Hart, bounced out on the visi­tors' 22 yard stripe. Williams and Hart teamed on a pass for 14 yards and sec­onds later bouncing Billy Barrett scam­pered around left end for eight yards and an intermission lead of 14-7. 
Defensive prowess and offensive futili­ty marked the greater part of the third quarter. However, a clipping penalty that set them back to their own five, ac­tually ignited the Irish. With sudden fury, they moved 95 yards to score. Wil­liams passed to Frank Spaniel from the shadows of the goal posts and the ball was out to the Iowa 41. Fourteen plays later, Spaniel rammed into the Hawk-eye line for the six points which obliter­ated any Iowa hopes for an upset. 
Faced with the possibility of being held to their low^est score of the year, the Irish decided to widen the margin. With 45 seconds to play, Williams found Hart in the end zone and the huge crowd slowly filed out shaking their heads over the second-half Notre Dame power. 
Unlike in previous games, no one Irish back came out as the offensive star. In­stead today's laurels went to fleet-footed John Petitbon, the standard Irish safety man. Three times the 18-year-old sopho­more caught Iowa backs from behind to prevent scores. He was superlative on pass defense, too. 
Offensively, the Irish paraded an ar­ray of speedy ball-carriers. Barrett, Sit­ko. Spaniel and Hart played their usual fine game, but it was definitely Bob Wil­liams' day. Completing 11 of 21 attempts, Bob surpassed Angelo Bertelli's existing record for total yai-ds gained through the air. Grantland Eice labelled Bob's signal-calling the best he'd seen. Bob also held the lowans at bay with his long-range punting. 
John Petitbon breaks up Hawkeye pass. 

The Hawkeyes, for all their spirited battling, were powerless when scoring opportunities beckoned. Three times in the first half their offense stalled within the ND 15-yard line. Nevertheless, they held the statistical edge at halftime, doiibling the Irish rushing output of 55 yards. , 
The ND pass defense tightened when it had to and, as a result, the Hawkeye aerial game didn't amount to much. 
One of the lighter moments of the game occurred in the third quarter when Emil Sitko had his jersey ripped off. They gave him the unfamiliar number 66 to wear, but a few minutes later a new numbar 14 was brought out. The then-contented Sitko proceeded to make more trouble for Iowa. 
In capturing their eighth victory of the season and their fifth consecutive from Eddie Anderson's crew, the Irish gave the Haw^keyes their fifth setback of the fall. ND's FredWallner was in­jured and it is feared his action in the" final two games might be limited. 
0 Hit two yards from the goal, Emil Sitko lunges and makes it. Rugged Irish linemen nail Iowa back on the line ol scrimmage. 
Dec. 9, 1949 ^9 
jum 


So. €al Defeated 32-0 
Powers grimaces as Hart rushes through. 
By VIC DORR 
Notre Dame, Ind. Nov. 26.—Playing the- kind of football that makes them the greatest team in the nation, Frank Leahy's Fighting Irish methodically punched out their ninth win of the sea­son today—an impressive 32-0 triumph over a scrappy Southern California squad. 
Fi-igid November winds kept 57,214 spectators shivering throughout the game, but the Irish heated up quickly as they slammed across two touchdowns in the first quarter then cruised confidently to \actory, adding scores in each period along the way. 
This 21st game between the two schools saw the Trojans take their worst lick­ing from Notre Dame; it saw ND honor the famed Four Horsemen team of 1924, and it saw^ the Irish extend their awe­some string to 37 games w-ithout defeat. Besides that, it saw Ail-American Leon Hart switched from end to fullback with devastating effect on the men of Troy. 
Twelve minutes of a chilled first quar­ter elapsed before Irish anti-freeze took effect. Then, with a third dowTi on the Trojan 40-yard-line, Bob Williams fired a long iDass to Hart, who calmly stepped 
Spaniel cuts sharply and finds Trojan 

across the goal line for the score. Orac­ko's kick was good. The second Irish touchdown came so quick it must have made the Trojans dizzy. Ninety sec­onds after the kickoff, John Petitbon, ND's fleet sophomore safety man, pluck­ed one of Jimmy Powers' passes from the sky and sprinted 43 yards down the sidelines for the score. USC's Bill Jes-sup blocked Oracko's kick, but Notre Dame had 13 points when the quarter ended. 
Making his first appearance in the Irish backfield in the second quarter Hart added more power to a third touch­down drive. With the ball on USC's 11 after a fumbled punt and a 19-yard jaunt by Billy Barrett, he lined up at 
"Make mistakes against the average team, and you're in trouble. Make mistakes against Notre Dame and it's suicide . . . even a perfect team couldn't have turned back this great Irish squad."—^Braven Dyer, Los Angeles "Times." 
fullback to the complete amazement of Trojans, fans and press alike. When the pile-up was untangled, Leon had plowed through to the four. Hart was agam in the backfield on the very next play, but Williams handed off instead to Emil Sit­ko, who skirted his left end for the touch­down. Steve Oracko's try for point was blocked again. 
Soon after the third quarter opened the Irish scored once more. Tliis time they launched a drive that carried 60 yards in 12 plays for the tally. The march included fancy gains by Bill Wightkin, Sitko, Hart and Larry Cou­tre. Finally Frank Spaniel sliced off tackle for two yards and the score. Orac­
ko's placement try was wide. 

A Williams to Barrett heave for 32 yards set up the final touchdown early in the fourth period. Hart, running again from fullback, powered the ball to the us e 15. Ernie Zalejski, displaying good speed and deception, made it to the six. Then Barrett churned over the goal line « in two tries. Notre Dame WOUIHI up its scoring for the day as Oracko made his last kick good. 
Coach Jeff Cravath's Trojans fought a gallant game, but the outcome never was in doubt. The only serious threat US.C. could muster came in the third quarter when a 39-yard pass from Bill Powers to Don Stillwell placed the ball on the Irish 15. But ND held for dowms and put a stoj) to it. ^ 
Southern California found their run­ning futile against a superb Irish line. Fine defensive play by Hart, Jim Mar­tin, Bob Lally, Jerry Groom, Paul Burns and Johnny Helwig kept Trojan runners at bay all afternoon and USC rushing was limited to 17 sparse yards. Troy's heralded Dean Schneider-Powers passing attack proved moi'e formidable, however. Despite the bitter cold which obviously stiffened the fingers of all flankmen, Southern Cal completed 20 out of 36 ^ tosses for 148 yards. Williams connected m on seven of 23 for 112 yards. 
But the Irish had power to spare­ND's hard-charging backfield amassed a total of 316 yards. The Pacific Coast boys put up a strong fight but never came close to matching Irish strength. This was a decisive victory for Notre Dame, the kind of victory that left little doubt about which team was the nation's best. 
The Fighting Irish realized this. They M 

realized too that most of their greatness 
could be attributed to one man—Coach Frank Leahy. 
 tackier awaiting him. Sitko sets off for long gain with a clear field ahead of him. 
- ^  _^ ;  :-S J  
'^A\^  
'*'^5*4^s:  

y'im^ 
%.^m$ 
wmm^^m^mmwm§ 
t«iii|gS 

|;'-^-M 
SMU tacklers encircle Coutre and stop him for one yard gain. Bill Wightkin gets behind Rote to take pass and score first TD. 


Irish Take 10th after SMU Scare 
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 3.—Mighty Notre squirmed all the way to the- three-yard 
By RALPH WRIGHT 

Dame battled against Southern Method­line. Rote hit the line for one and fol­ist for its championship life today, and, lowed with a touchdown plunge. like a champion, it won. line backers all afternoon. The Irish ND crossed the goal again in a hurry. 
Powering 56 yards on the ground moved out of danger, punted and the Soph Jim Mutscheller intercepted Rote's to break a 20-all fourth period tie and game ended shortly thereafter. toss on the 22 and, in four plays, the then stand off a furious Mustang drive The first half was a tea party com­Irish were on the three. Barrett made on their own four-yard line, the Irish de­the first of his game-winning touch­
pared to the second 30 minutes. Both feated SMU, 27-20, in the biggest thrill­downs by jamming through right tackle. 
Notre Dame's first half scores came on er of the 1949 season. 
Williams passes. One went to Bill Less than a minute later. Champion 
The 75,428 who sat in the drizzling Wightkin who got behind Rote, caught ran a Rote pass all the way to the ND rain at the Cotton Bowl here expected . the pass and ran 10 more yards to com­one and hard-running Kyle smashed over Coach Frank Leahy's team to roll to an plete a 42 yard play. The other TD pass A 15-yard penalty pushed the Irish easy win. Instead, they saw Matty Bell's back to their one-yard line shortly after aroused Texans give Notre Dame its the kickoff, and Bill Richards ran Wil­
"Notre Dame met their match in Rote 

toughest contest in an unbeaten string liams' punt down on the 14. In three 
and Southern Methodist but fought back in 

that now stands at 38 games. Notre p^^ys. Rote bounded into the end zone 
champion style to a hard-earned victory."— 

Dame has gone four consecutive sea­for the third time. Bill Sullivan, who 
Paul Neville, South Bend "Tribune." 

sons without losing and Coach Leahy's kicked the first two extra points, booted record stands at 60 wins, three losses again, but Groom burst through to block and five ties. was caught by Ernie Zalejski on a play the attempt and keep SMU from going 
When the Kyle Eote-led Mustangs tied that started from the SMU 35. An op­ahead. the score at 20-20, there were less than ponent reflected the ball, but Ernie w^as 
This afternoon there were heroes all ten minutes to play. Left half Frank behind him and caught it in the end over the place. ND's whole line, especial­Spaniel ran the kickoff back all the way zone. 

ly Hart, Groom and Lally did a tre­to the ND 4G. Emil Sitko, AU-American John Petitbon set up the first scoring mendous job. In the defensive backfield, senior, and soph star. Bill Barrett, took drive by intercepting a pass on his 27. 
Petitbon was sensational imtil he had to the ball to the 26 in five plays. Then, Gay started the second by spearing an­leave the game with injuries. On offense. 
another Ail-American, end Leon Hart, other stray Mustang pass and running Bob Williams connected on 11 passes to moved to the fullback post and slammed 20 yards to the home team's 35. 
break an ND record for passes completed to the 20. Barrett followed with six SMU's only first half threat was Rote. 
in one season—83. And Barrett, Larry yards. Bill Gay with six more and Bar­After ND's first touchdown, sawed-off Coutre, Sitko, Spaniel and Hart stood rett with another two. The SMU line Johnny Champion threw to end Zohn out among the ball-carriers. 
couldn't hold the ND backs and Barrett Milam for 78 yards and a first down on Grover Walker, Franklin and I. D. 
swung wide on the next play, chugged the six. However, four Rote rushes at Russell played their hearts out for the 
for the corner and went over. Steve the line left SMU a foot shy. Mustang defensive unit, but the man of 
Oracko's third conversion practically as­If the first half was like a tea party, the hour was Rote. The 190-pound San 
sured the Irish of at least a tie. the second half resembled a barroom Antonio junior ran for 115 yards on the But SMU hadn't given up all after­bra^vl. Notre Dame's attack looked sharp ground and passed for 168 more. The noon and they didn't this time either. and t^vice they marched toward the SMU injured AU-American, Doak Walker, Eote ran and passed the Texans to the only to lose the ball on Zalejski fumbles couldn't have been better—^it was im­
ND 28. Kyle was momentarily hurt, but —once on the 12 and once on the 38. The possible. 
Fred Benners came in and threw to H. second muff gave the Mustangs the life 
R. Russell on the five. Here the great needed. These Irish won this season with non­Irish line held, and Rote's fourth down Rote, now running like a madman, chalance, but, when they had to iight, jump-pass was grabbed by both Jerry streaked for 18, then for 23 more. Then they did. They're the Fighting Irish and Groom and Bob Lally, two tremendous he handed off to little Champion who they're still winning. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
inflilinii Tif-nM Hii'-^^^-'a-^-'^a-^ii'i^'^^'i'i^g^^ 

A Williams Weekend 
Football Saturdays Are Special Events For the ND All-Anierican Quarterback 
By KEN THOREN 
Bob and Anita Galvin "Huddle-ize." 
Quarterback's parents take campus tour. Williams and Mazur tensely watch game. 
Tlie excitement of a Notre Dame foot­ball weekend starts for Bob Williams, as with all other students, on Friday after­noon. A football weekend for a football player, however, runs a different course. 
Bob's roommate, basketball star Marty O'Connor, generally brings Red Sitko back to their room in Cavanaugh Hall after the one o'clock class on Friday. Then until practice time, the three of them shoot the breeze about the preced­ing week's game and what the prospects are for Saturday's battle. Sitko and Bob start for the dressing room in the sta­dium a little after three. Bob said, "It's during that Friday afternoon practice that I know whether or not the team is 'up' for the game. You can just sense it." 
After practice, chow comes next. Then either a quarterback meeting with Coach Leahy, or else the pep i-ally. Bob said, "It's during the rally that the team can feel whether or not the student body is 'up' for the game. It's like electricity. You can feel it running through every­one. Like the night before the Tulane game—it Avas the hottest that night of all the rallies." 
After the rally it's back to the room for him. He answers some of his fan mail before hitting the sack at about 10 o'clock. He gets, on the average, about 50 letters a week. The majority of them are from kids throughout the country, asking for everything from his auto­gi-aph to his helmet. 
All the players are excused from Sat­urday morning classes. Bob gets up about 8:80, dresses and heads for 9 o'clock Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel. A hearty breakfast follows that. Tlie menu includes steak, baked potatoes, orange juice, oatmeal, toast, one glass of milk, tea and an apple. 
Bob's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold 
A. Williams, are his No. 1 fans. They travel out to Notre Dame from Balti­more every football weekend. Sometimes Bob's steady girl, Anita Galvin, comes out w'ith them. The star quarterback spends the rest of the morning with them and then heads for the stadium about an hour and a quarter before game time. 
He dresses as soon as he gets there and then, along with the rest of the team, lies down on large mats for a short rest. Forty minutes before the opening whistle the team goes out on the field for a warm-up. "I always get ner­vous during this period of warm-up, but when we go out the second time, for the game, itself, I forget my jitters and feel all right." 
Coach Leahy never talks to the squad until a few minutes before the game starts. Then he "usually outlines some defensive strategy, gives a short pep talk and announces the starting defen­sive and offensive line-up." 
Just before the game starts the entire team and all the coaches get in a huddle 
 With roommate and net star Marty O'Connor. Bob reads writeup of Saturday's game 
tW^ 
,.-^..>-«,««>a..«-w«ai« 
MBiaiMiMb 

milifinni-ti'i'iirtfir »i^^ 
and say a Hail Manj. They pray that no one, on either side, will get injured. Then the whistle, the kick-off and the game is on. 
"I don't know about the other fellows," Bob said, "but I never hear the roaring crowds. I sense them, especially the stu­dent section, but I don't think I ever ac­tually hear them. For me it's like a scrimmage out on Cartier. A ton of 

• dynamite could go off and I probably wouldn't hear it." 
Bob has been acclaimed from all corn­ers for the work he has done this year on the gi-idiron. Speaking about him to one reporter. Coach Leahy said: "Take Bob Williams, for instance. Most people regard him only as a great quarterback. But he is the best tackier and defensive back on the entire squad, as versatile and as finished a performer as Johnny Lujack was." Ace sportswriter Eed Smith wrote a few weeks back that "Williams is in the great tradition of Notre Dame quarterbacks. A successor in the direct line of Eed Salmon, Harry Stuhldreher, Frank Carideo, Angelo Ber­telli and Johnny Lujack." 
Bob has tallied high on the annual AU-American polls. Perhaps the biggest single honor was the announcement by United Press that he had been named Back of the Year. He also placed on the UP's fii-st Ail-American team and on the 2nd AP team. Time magazine put him on their consensus AU-American. And he came out fifth in the voting for the co­veted Heisman Memorial Trophy. 
The much-honored quarterback is af­fable but not gregarious. He can't re­member either faces or names and is often afraid that his forgetfulness will be misunderstood as snobbery. The other day he was standing with a friend in the Huddle. As classmates and acquain­tances passed by. Bob was forced to rely upon his companion for their names. 
Bob, a junior journalism major, listens to 
On the field Bob displays that same relaxed poise that his friends know so well outside of the stadium. When ques­tioned about his habit of jogging his hand up and down in the air while call­ing the plays. Bob said, "You know, I'm not conscious of that at all. Sometimes I toss up some grass to see which way the wind is blowing, but generally I guess it's just a habit I've acquired." 
At half-time oranges are handed out to the players. Backfield Coach Bex"nie Crimmins preps the quarterbacks on what is working and what isn't. Coach Leahy circulates throughout the resting players, too, telling them what they're doing wrong. Then, just before they re­turn to the field, he gives them a pep talk and announces the second half start­ing line-up. 
Once the game is over the squad heads back for the locker room and hot show­ers. Before long the place is jammed with sportswriters, alumni and a few high school players who have been in­vited up for the weekend to look over the campus. 
As soon as Bob is dressed he goes out to meet his parents. Then with center Jerry Groom and his parents, who come from Des Moines, Iowa, for every home game. Bob and his mother and father all go out for supper. 
"After eating," Bob said, "we replay the game at least ten times. I get tix-ed early, so I generally come back to school about 9:30.1 get a good night's sleep and then go to 8 o'clock Mass with the folks. We go down to the Oliver for breakfast and then read all the papers. We either talk or walk around town until it's time for them to catch their train home." 
Bob comes back and sleeps Sunday afternoon until time for dinner. That night he said he "studies like a dog, try­

a lecture in an editing and writing ciass. 
ing to catch up on some of my back work." Bob is a junior in the Depart­ment of Journalism. 
The weekend is over and everything begins to point to the next Saturday. In concluding the recap of his weekend. Bob said, "I guess it's a lot diiferent from those that the other fellows have. I can't relax like them; can't go to town Friday night, or much Saturday night, either. I don't exactly regret it, though. My biggest thrill is being able to play football for Notre Dame. If that requires some restrictions then I guess I can only show my appreciation by obeying them. On the whole, there's nothing like a foot­ball weekend at Notre Dame. Someday I'm going to come back and see what it's all like from a spectator's viewpoint." 
Bob attends Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel.  All-American goes for gain in MSC tilt. 

All-Amer leans • 




SPLINTERS 
ASSOCIATED PRESS End Leon Hart Tackle Jim Martin 
from the Press Box 
Back Emil Sitko 
UNITED PRESS End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko 
• 
Bob Williams 

COLLIER'S End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko 
LOOK MAGAZINE End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko Bob Williams 
INS OFFENSIVE End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko 
INS DEFENSIVE End Leon Hart 
NEA OFFENSIVE End Leon Hai-t 
NEA DEFENSIVE Tackle Jim Martin 
THE QUARTERBACK End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko 
Bob Williams 

NEW YORK SUN End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko 
CHICAGO TRIBUNE End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko 
INS MIDWEST First Team 

End Leon Hart Tackle Jim Martin Backs Larry Coutre 
Emil Sitko Second Team Guard Bob Lally Back Bob Williams 
CHICAGO TRIBUNE ALL-MIDWEST 
First Team End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko 
Bob Williams Third Team Tackle Jim Martin Guard Bob Lally 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS ALL-MIDWEST Tackle Bob Toneff 
by Kalpk Wright m^^^JMi^
•yt's;v^.yr>>: •^^^^1 
Coach Leahy The sportswriters made quite an issue out of the fact that the Notre Dame football players carried Coach Frank Leahy off the field after the Southern California game. It was the first time they could recall having seen Coach Leahy carried from the field. 
That was a special occasion. In their last home game, the players showed the large crowd that they had appreciated the privilege of playing under Coach Leahy. They also wanted to show the old timers that they thought the present Notre Dame coach is the greatest of them all. 
To suggest that Coach Leahy is the greatest coach of all time, especially at a school where Knute Rockne once coach­ed, approaches football heresy. Yet it may be true. The respect (and actual fear) that opposing coaches have for him has never been equalled. Neither has his record—60 wins, three losses and five ties while at Notre Dame. Coach Leahy's teams are so near perfection that one loss makes a season a failure. National championships, awards, AU-Americans have become synonymous with Leahy football. 
Coach Leahy has great material, but certainly other schools have as much. He has fine assistant coaches, but so do the others. It's just that Coach Leahy is al­ways a little (or a lot) ahead of the other fellow. His double-quarterback, re­surrected "television huddle" and new punt formation are a few examples. How he can keep a team "up" so often is in­credible; it's hard to fire up a squad of boys who never lose. But he does it. 
They can call Amos Alonzo Stagg the "grand old man of football" and Knute Kockne the greatest personality of the game. But, for sheer coaching genius, Frank Leahy is the man. And he hap­pens to be one of the finest gentlemen you'll ever meet too. 
Leahy Football Many coaches come out with the old line about not being able to win without the ball. Or "the other team can't score when we have the ball." Coach Leahy says these things and he ineans them. If there's one thing characteristic of Leahy football, it's the fact that it is offensive 
football. Try to think of the time you've ever seen a Leahy team punt on third down or try a quick kick. They just don't do it. 
On the other hand, think of the times you have seen the Irish pass from be­hind their own goal. Tlie times you've seen them run the ball on fourth dowm on their own side of the fifty. Some of the spectators were about to drop their false teeth Avhen ND pulled that fourth down pass when deep in their own terri­tory against North Carolina. They'd never seen anything like that. 
The amazing thing about Notre Dame's offensive football is the way it keeps im­proving. Coach Leahy's mind never grows stagnant. Opposing coaches may think he's about run out of scoring ideas, but they're wrong if they do. There were a lot of fancy tricks and new scoring gim­micks ti'ied out on the practice field, but not used in any of the games. Future oi^ponents •will see many of them. In 1946, the Irish scored 271 points, in 1947 they got 301 and in 1948 the scoring totaled 320. This year ND made 360 points. It doesn't seem possible that the 1950 team might surpass the point out­put of this year's great team. Although, in view of the ever-improving offenses of ND squads, it might do just that. 
When a coach changes his huddle to get five or so more plays a game, he's offensive-minded. It's good football to watch, though. And it's also good foot­ball, period. 
The Team Most of the ND seniors finished their careers without meeting defeat. One boy never played on a losing team in high school or college. They represent just about the winningest bunch of college footballers of all time. People are right when they praise a squad that proves to be a good loser. Yet, if you praise a good loser, you've got to praise this Notre Dame group a little more. It takes exceptional men to work so hard, to try so hard and to fight so hard that they never lose. We've purposely avoided mentioning any one player's name in this column. We like to think of the boys as a group, because, despite all of the "big names" on the roster, these 1949 Notre Dame boys were a TEAM. 
The Scholastic 

Gay 1 24 24.0 Zalejski 1. 23 23.0 


Statisties Prove XD Might 
Flynn 1 16 IRO 
SCORING  
TD  PAT  Points  
Sitko  9  0  54  
Barrett  9  0  54  
Spaniel  7  0  42  
Coutre  7  0  42  
Oracko  0  38  38  
Hart  6  0  36  
Zalejski  5  0  30  
Swistowicz  2  0  12  
Wightkin  2  0  12  
Gay  2  0  12  
Landry  2  0  12  
Williams  1  0  6  
Petitbon  1  0  6  
53  38  360*  
''Includes two safeties  
PASSING  
TD  Yds.  

A tt. Com/p. Passes Passes Pet. Williams 147 83 16 1374 .565 Mazur 5 2 2 36 ,400 Barrett 1 1 0 24 1.000 Whiteside 1 0 0 0 .000 
154 86 18 1434 .558 
TEAM STATISTICS 
10 Games 

Notre Davie Opponents 
148 First Downs 110 2914 Yards Rushing 864 1434 Yards Passing 1332 154 Passes Attempted 202 86 Passes Completed 89 .558 Completion Average 441 4348 Total Oifense 2196 16 Ball Lost, Fumbles 20 17 Passes Intercepted By 8 360 Total Points 86 
RUSHING 
Times Yards Canned Gained Avg. 

Sitko 120 712 5.9 Coutre 102 645 6.3 Spaniel 80 496 6.2 Barrett 75 359 4.8 Zalejski 29 171 5.9 Landry 37 147 4.0 Hart 18 73 4.1 Cotter 16 64 4.0 Williams 34 63 1.9 Swistowicz 11 53 4.8 Gander 10 52 5.2 Gay 14 47 3.4 Wightkin 3 14 4.7 McKillip 1 11 11.0 Bush 2 11 5.5 Begley 4 7 1.8 Dickson 2 3 1.5 Smith 1 3 1.0 Espenan 1 0 0.0 Mazur 2 0 0.0 
Dec. 9, 1949 
Whiteside Petitbon 
Wightkin 
Coutre Hart Spaniel Zalejski Barrett Gay Mutscheller Sitko Flynn 
1  -8  
3  -9  
566  2914  

PASS-RECEIVING 
Yards Caught Gained 
 17 309  13 271  19 257  16 212 5 151 6 125 5 60 2 27 2 15 1 7 
86 1434 
PASS INTERCEPTION 

Swistowicz Gay Petitbon Helwig 
Groom 
Mutscheller Cotter Whiteside Hamby Begley 
Int. By 1 4 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 
16 

Williams Barrett Mazur 
Gay Spaniel Sitko Begley Cotter Petitbon Williams Barrett Gander 
Sitko Spaniel PUNTING 
Kicks Yards 
 42 1621 8 344 2 54 
52 2019 
PUNT RETURNS 
Ret'd
 19 3 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 
30 
Yards
 254 32 23 18 13 8 5 0 0 
353 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
Ret'd Yards 
4 89 
5 70 
-8.0 -8.0 
5.1 
TD Passes 
2 0 5 3 4 3 1 0 0 0 
18 
Yards Ret'd. 
84 80 62 41 16 5 3 3 2 2 
298 
Avg. 
38.6 43.0 27.0 
 38.8 
Avg. 
 13.4  10.7  23.0  18.0  13.0  4.0  5.0  0.0  0.0 
11.8 
Avg. 
22.5 14.0 55.0 12.0 10.0 

Barrett  1  8  8.0  
Hart  1  8  8.0  
22  371  16.9  

FUMBLES RECOVERED No. Eecovered Hart 3 Toneff 3 Flynn 2 Groom 1 Helwig 1 Petitbon 1 Hamby ... 1 Oracko 1 Gay 1 Mutscheller 1 Barrett _ 1 
16 

1949 All-Opponent Team 
Ends Art Weiner, North Carolina Jack Dittmer, Iowa Tackles Dan Coleman, Michigan Neal Franklin, Southern Meth. Guards Ed Bagdon, Michigan State 
Don Mason, Michigan State Center Joe Niekirk, North Carolina Backs Nick Sebek, Indiana 
*Kyle Rote, Southern Methodist Ljim Chandnois, Michigan State John Kerestes, Purdue 

Best Opponent—Southern Methodist 
* Only unanimous choice. 

Photo Credits 

The order of listing for those pages with pictures by more than one photo­grapher is top to bottom and left to rigEt in each row. Page 9 by Bruneau; 12 and 13 by Ferstel; 14 and 15 by Gorman; 16 by Harlan; 19, picture of Flynn by Gorman; 20 by Munger; 21—^top two by Conerty, Munger and Harlan; 22 by Munger except picture of Mutscheller by Gorman; 23 by-Gorman, Manger, Gor­man and McLaughlin; 24 by Conerty, Munger, Conerty and Munger; 25 by Munger except picture of Williams by Gorman; 26 by Munger (top) and Fer­stel; 27 by Ferstel; 28 by McLaughlin; 29 by Munger; 31 by Acme; 32 and 33 by Murphy; 34 and 35 by Munger; 36 by McLaughlin; 37 by Munger; 38 by Murphy; 39 by Munger, McLaughlin and Ferstel; 41 by Associated Press and Acme; 42 by Gorman except bench shot by McLaughlin; 43 by Gorman except action by Munger; 46 by Gorman; 47 by Munger, McLaughlin and Mungor; 49 by Brickson (top) and Munger; 50 by Bag-by Studios . 
45 

Swistowicz  1  55  
Coutre  4  48  
Wightkin  3  30  



Student Shopkeepers 
Bv CHARLEY DULLEA 
Bench coats engulf a student manager. 
To that oft-quoted fixture of the American scene, Mr. Gus Fan, the words Notre Dame summon up a defi­nite concept. It is a picture of men, superbly coached and magnificently conditioned, tackling hard, blocking sharply, running spectacularly, pass­ing incredibly — it is a picture of a team. But to the same Gus Fan, the existence of another team is unknowTi or, at least, unappreciated. These are the men who attend to that myriad maze of detail which helps keep the Irish a cohesive, unencumbered unit. This is the team known as the man­agers. 
At Noti-e Dame there are some 70 student managers. Their work ranges from squiring a wardrobe of jerseys to changing the numerals in the score­board; from lugging the yardage chain to toting the time-honored water bucket. All are responsible to the coaches, to the business manager of athletics, and, primarily, to their di­recting triumvirate, in football, of one senior and two associate managers. 
Presiding over this backstage brig­ade is Jack Finnegan, a part-time na­tive of Los Angeles. In addition to the post of senior manager, wiiich in­volves all university sports and in Avhich he is aided by four other as­sociates, Jack is head of football opera­
tions,  this  activity  consuming  the  
greater portion of his t ime.  
From  August,  when  the  team  ar­ 

rives, until the football banquet mark­ing the season's close, Jack lives in a world of pigskin. One moment, he may be checking attendance at the squad's" daily meeting in the Law Building, and, the next, seeing that training table fare conforms with trainer tier Field and in the stadium it is Jack's lot to insure that the first-aid system moves smoothly, that the flow of hel­mets, footballs, mud cleats, and kick-off tees is uninterrupted, and that no "fifth downs" pop up on the indicator. Toss in oranges at half-time, visiting news­men and coaches on weekends, and auto­graph-hounds perpetually, and it is quite apparent that this commerce senior is a very busy gentleman. 
On away trips. Jack lives in a fitful daze, induced by equal parts of baksheesh to porters, vanishing halfbacks, and vi­sions of stymied ti-ain connections. Little wonder that this year's senior manager, when asked to name his biggest thrill, said, "I can't exactly put my finger on it. It's just that if a trip works out suc­cesfully, with no hitches, I feel the job's accomplished." And that, brother, is a mouthful. 
A casual visitor to the fieldhouse some autumnal afternoon might surmise that another "St. Valentine's Day Massacre" was in progress, judging from the rapid salvos issuing from a certain cubbyhole. In reality, within that nook is Associate Manager Don Lueck, wielding a smoking typewriter and bearing little resemblance to "Legs" Diamond. Holding the post of personnel manager, this son of Oak Har­bor, Wash., oversees the reams upon reams of paper work necessary to pre­vent the gridiron regiment's routine from bogging down. 
Among his chief reasons for becoming a manager, says Don, was a love of typ­ing. This is fortunate indeed, since all rosters, special messages, and faculty no­tifications pass through the hands of the personnel manager. It is Don who lets Herman Crossbuck know that he will make the jaunt to Mongoloid Teachers, while also informing the pedagogical corps that Herman will be absent from his Syi'ian ceramics seminar. 
Down in the inner reaches of the sta­dium, enegetic Jim Funari, another com­merce man, keeps house for a host of burnished shoulder pads, glistening hel­mets, and dusky moleskins. Obviously enough, his duty as Equipment Manager is to see that the squad has its gear when and where they want it. This sim­ple statement is a large order, but one wellperformed by the Connellsville, Pa., neighbor of Johnny Lujack. 
For home games, his charge is rela­tively easy, despite the dressing of 56 men, since all apparatus is readily avail­able. This includes a special shoe-clean­ing device invented by Equipment Super­intendent McAllister, Jim's chief. How­ever, trips present a different picture. 
Hughie Burns' pro\isions. Out on Car-Managers Jack Finnegan, Don Lueck and Jim Funari check equipment before game. i 
46 The Scholastic ^^ 
Band marks Indiana's entry into U.S. in Tulane half-time show. After snappy about-face, Hope-men parade over to Irish side. 
Band and Cheerleaders Stir Irish ISpirit 
Four times this year more than 56,000 fans jammed into Notre Dame Stadium to see a football game and all the sound and color that go with college football. They got their money's worth. 
Many times the Notre Dame Band came marching tightly through the goal posts, then spreading wide as it moved down the field to give its show. Thsse were 108 men, synchronized while march­ing, beating, tooting and blowing their their various instruments. Then during the games cheer leaders played the crowd like an organ dix'ecting crescendos of cheers and wringing rousing chants from the stands. Now, as far as football is concerned, they are done. The marching band will split into the varsity and con­cert bands, and the Irish cheering crew will work at basketball games during the winter. 
The Notre Dame Band, cajoled and di­rected by H. Lee Hope, labored long and hard this year to turn out five successful half-time shows. TTiey practiced two hours every class day since school began. Sometimes they practiced at night under Cartier Field's floodlights. Sometimes they practiced in the mud. Then there were times v.'han snow covered line mark-markers used to guide them in forma­tions. Practice was useless in such cases. The weekend of the Southern California game the ND band trooped into the Sta­dium cold in more ways than one. But throughout the season their shows were excellent. Their Hoosier Heritage series this year brought rousing accolades of applause from appreciative crowds. 
Besides the novel shuffle-step initiated this year in band formation. Director 
By LARRY McDERMOTT 

other innovation: using a vocal quartette in half-time shows. Members of the No­tre Dame Glee Club pulled this stunt for the first time at the Iowa game. Bob Kuetz, Jack Fitzhenry, Roy O'Neill and Jack Owens sang in pantomine before a dead mike while a recoi-d they cut was played over the public address system. The record was necessary because of a three-second time lag between micro­phone and loudspeakers. Without the rec­ord, band and singers could not coordi­nate, Director Hope explained, 
Notre Dame's seven cheer leaders, chosen in rigid competitive tryouts be­fore the season begins, are probably among the most unappreciated men on campus. Few students realize the work behind this crew, or the extraordinary effort necessary to coax yells out of a student body used to winning football teams. 
These men practice on an average of six hours a week to perfect their various cheers. They polish up calisthenics and tumbling, a major attraction along the sidelines. And they yell themselves hoarse at pep rallies and games. Theirs also is the job of taking Shannon View-Mike I, frisky Irish mascot through his paces over hurdles. When they graduate they are awarded a ND monogi-am, but not until then. 
Including head cheer leader Jim Mar­heine, there are three seniors on the 1949 yell squad; the others are Tom Lotze and Ealph Holmes. One junior, Dick Heride, and three sophomores— Jack McGlinn, Mike Perino and Jack Wenning—fill out the roster. 
Hope's aggregation came up with an-Escorted by Shannon View Mike, Notre Dame's cheerleaders race in ahead of band. 
Dec. 9, 1949 

Irish reserves try to head ofF Bill Barrett: five days a week the reserves play the best team in the nation — the ND varsity. 


Bee §quad Bolsters Irish Varsity 
Notre Dame's reserve football players become the Notre Dame B team on the average of two times each fall. Other­wise, they're the boys who work very hard out on Cartier Field every after­noon, but get little chance to play in the games. Next year it ^vill be a different story for most of them; they'll fill in the holes left by graduation and play a big part in varsity victories. 
Notre Dame's B squad had tvvo games this year, both against the Purdue Bees, and, in each game, the Irish came from behind to win. 
In a game at Notre Dame on Oct. 7, Quarterback George Dickson starred as ND outlasted the Boilermakers, 27-20. The game began in Cartier Field, but had to be moved to the Stadium because of the lai-ge crowd. After Purdue had taken a 13-7 halftime lead, sophomore fullback Jack Bush shook loose for a long TD gallop and Dickson hit Eay Jo­nardi for six more points. Purdue ijassed for a touchdown too, but, a moment later, Dickson went over standing up on a bootlegger; this play had the Boiler­makers tackling everything but the goal posts. Joe Caprara, classy fullback from Turtle Creek, Pa. (Leon Hart's home­town), did some excellent place-kicking in the game. 
On Nov. 18, in Lafayette, the Irish won again, 13-7. Outstanding for ND were Guard Jim Dailer, Caprara and the passing combination of Dickson and sophomore Dave Koch. Purdue pulled the 
By RALPH WRIGHT 

ancient sleeper play on the first scrim­mage and got away with it to lead, 7-0. In the second quarter, a Dickson-to-Koch pass, good for 40 yards, evened things up. Then, in the third quarter, Dick­son's passing and Caprara's running put the ball in scoring position again. The score came when Dickson again hit Koch with a pass in the end zone. That Avas the ball game. 
All of the reserve players aren't ex­actly unknown. Boys like Leo McKillip and Jim Dailer have already seen quite a bit of varsity action. Last year, the speedy McKillip scored a touchdown against Pittsburgh and did enough ball-toting to earn a letter. Dailer, a chunky guard, got his monogi-am by looking good while subbing for people like Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell. Actually, most of the reserves saw action at some time or other this year. 
A position-by-position run-down of the reserves reveals some real talent that will go on display the next year or two. 
The B squad had some capable ends this season in Jack Connor, brother of All-American George; the afoi'emention­ed Koch and Jonardi; Bob Dolmetsch, a product of Chicago's Leo High; Don Huml, held down by injuries most of the time so far; and Bob Kapish, a high school teammate of Bob Toneff's while at Barberton, Ohio. 
Five-ten and 195 pounds, husky John Zancha, another Chicagoan, stood out among the tackles. Some other good ones were Jack Daut, Jim Mahoney, Tom Hu­ber and Jack Nusskern. Besides Dailer, guards who should be in there with the varsity next year include Cleveland's Marty Kiousis, Fred Banicki, Bill Hig­gins, Frank Johnston, Tony Zambroski and tall Dan Modak. Johnston was with Dolmetsch at Leo. Art Perry, the chunky redhead, might be mentioned here too though his game time shows he's really a varsity man. 
Among the centers, Jim Bartlett of Cincinnati did a lot of line-backing for the varsity early in the fall and will be a leading candidate for that position next year. Other good center prospects for 1950 are Phil Yanoschick and Chuck Feigl. 
Tom Carter and Ed Smith were other quarterbacks sharing the signal-calling with Dickson. Bill Whiteside, a southpaw operator, plays under the center too, but saw considerable action for the varsity as a sub safety man. 
McKillip, who rans the hurdles for the track team, had halfback help from Gene Smith, Bill Hovey, John O'Hara and Bill Kramer. Bush and Caprara were good enough fullbacks to earn let­ters immediately at most schools. 
That's the Notre Dame B team—^un­beaten, untied and unnoticed. Next year most of the reserves will get more at­tention, the kind of attention they have richly deserved. 
The Scholastic 

Saturdays Exeite Croi^ds 
By AL LAPORTE 
They began arriving as early as Thursday, these fans, for the game which was to give Notre Dame the na­tional championship. The advance guard came clad for temperate weather this weekend, but later arrivals were better prepared for the sub-freezing blasts which swept campus and stadium alike for the last Irish home game of the year. 
Beginning the usual hoopla of a home­coming weekend, sundry hall decorations pockmarked the busy campus, program vendors hawked their sheets at every corner, visitors and grads milled about in festive spirits. The big influx became clearly visible at the outer doors of the Dining Hall and The Huddle, wherever food was sold. Pennants, shaven and/or smooth faces marked the guests from the residents. Noti*e Dame took on the aspect of a co-ed institution for three days. 
Congestion reached such a point that students were leaving five minutes earli­er for class than was their normal wont. Every bus from South Bend seemed to bring more recruits for the invading horde. Cars rapidly filled every avail­able space, cabs bringing in those unfor­tunates who had parked beyond walking distance. 
Friday's Pep Eally drew far more than the traditional crowd of students, for up in the balcony were gathered Irish greats of two national champion­ship clubs—this year's edition, to be crowned on the morrow, and the '24 Rockns team, the outfit of the Four Horses and Seven Mules. 
How the classes went on those days is anybody's guess. Some of them looked as if grapeshot had been fired down the rows, leaving a student untouched here and there. These were the boys with no cuts, dates or any other excuse to ab­stain from attendance. Often roll call was reduced to taking the names of those present. It was shorter that way. 
Saturday came in with dropping tem­peratures and increasing \\inds, climate wholly unsuitable for the visiting Tro­jans from sunny California. Even native mid-westerners donned extra sweaters for the cold afternoon ahead, exclaiming that it was perfect television weather. But football fans are a curious breed, so the stadium was packed long before the kickoff. 
Sandwiched in between two halves of classic football was the last appearance of the 1949 edition of the Notre Dame Marching Band. Once again the well-drilled, fancy-stepping Hope-men put on an entertaining halftime program, though the windswept field was not the most desirable place in which to march. Highlight of the show was the presenta­tation to the members of that '24 Irish team with silver footballs commemorat­ing their silver jubilee. Sincere cheers followed the introduction of each player, of men who had inspired Grantland Rice's famous story beginning "Outlined against a grey October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again today." Lined up at midfield were Notre Dame men,v,ho had represented their school in another year, but who had achieved tlie <;ame goal as the young bunch of gveenclad warriors then resting in the locker room were about to do—the National Cham­pionship. There were a few moist eyes 
Students celebrate at victory dance. 
among the greying, overcoated gradu­ates as they received the acclaim. 
Post-game activities were many. South Bend coming briefly alive to accommo­date the revelers. With a suddenness that was magic the campus emptied as students joined in" the exodus. The Vic­tory Dance was packed, but interest was centered downtown where an-bitious folk tried to liven up a dozing rown. Some succeeded as business boomed in the eat­eries and clubs. Efforts expended, the host turned to bed, but not before re­hashing the afternoon's game and predict­ing dire fates for the next week's foes, the Mustangs of Southern Methodist. Sunday the campus began its return to normal; the celebration was over and the jubilee in the books. Horsemen and Mules rode happily away and a cold, disap­pointed but dead-game Trojan group 
left frigid Indiana for greener, warmer fields. . . . 
As game time nears, crowd congests outside of the stadium. Students enjoy speech during the pre-game pep rally program. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
,5 €o''r7'€*'.^' '• 
'•'"7,, 
in 
f 7 ?79 aSl S31 i ;? 7^ >-i5*/ 3.j^. 21 ^ 'T^* ?5dpl5 
^w 
'^^» ^, 
^^^^ 
^^f^S^^^r^i^., .ijg^t^iy^i^glg^gSSM^^^^^^MSi^ 
m '^m.^^^m.'^ 
tiiaaai,Migav.1i >>^i»ii»Mwi^.ili^')g;P 
Notre Dame's 1949 National Champions 
Left to right: Front row: Steve Oracko, George Dickson, Ed Hudak Frank Johnson, Gus Cifelli, Leon Hart, Ray Espenan, Gerry Beglcy, Ralph McGehee, Bob Lally. Second row: William Kramer, Larry Coutre, Frank Spaniel, Bill Gay, Mike Swistowicz, Paul Burns, Don HumI, Bill Barrett, Jerry Groom, Johnny Helwig, Jim Mutscheller, Chet Ostrowski, Joe Caprara. Third row: Marty Kiousis, Jim Bartlett, Jim Hamby, Frank Johnston, Tom Huber, Bill Flynn, John O'Neil, Jack Nusskern, Ernie Zaiejski, Jim Mahoney, Ernie Knapik, Doug Waybright, Jack Connor, Fred Wallner. Fourth row: Jim Funari (Mgr.), Ed Smith, John Zancha, Bob Dolmetsch, Byron Boji, Bob Toneff, Bill Whiteside, Dan Modak, Art Perry, Jack Bush, Bill Higgins, Emil Sitko, Dick Cotter, Jim Dailer. Fifth row: Don Lucck (Mgr.) John O'Hara, John Mazur, Bob Williams, Gene Smith, Bob Kapish, Bill Hovey, John Petitbon, Del Gander, Walt Grothaus, Tony Zambroski, Dave Koch, Jack Daut, Jack Finnegan (Mgr.). Jim Martin was missing when the picture was taken. 
^ 

M^-i. 
Football Roster, 1949 
Name and Position Age 
Banicki, Frederick, G 19 Barrett, William Carlin, HB 19 Bartlett, James, C 20 *Begley, Gerald Carroll, QB 21 Boji, Byron Bela, C 19 Burns, Paul Eugene, G 20 Bush, John Lawrence, FB 19 Butz, Jean HB 20 Carter, Thomas Leslie, QB 22 **Cifelli, August Blase, T 24 Connor, John Francis, E 21 *Cotter, Richard Adrian, FB 20 **Coutre, Lawrence Edward, HB .... 21 *DaiIer, James Herman, G 22 Daut, John Donald, T 18 Dickson, George Charles, QB 26 Dolmetsch, Robert Emery, E 19 **Espenan, Charles Raymond, LE .... 22 Flood, David Michael, HB 21 **Flynn, William James, LE 22 Fox, Francis Joseph, T 19 Gander, Fidel John, FB 19 *Gay, William Thomas, LH 21 . *Groom, Jerome Paul, C 20 ***Grothaus, Walter John, C 23 Hamby, James Harold, C 18 ***Hart, Leon Joseph (Co-Capt.) RE 20 Helwig, John Frank, G 22 Higgins, William Patrick, G 22 *Hudak, Edward James, T 21 Holmes, Thomas Patrick, T 21 Hovey, William Arthur, HB 22 Huber, Thomas Edward, T 20 Jefifers, John Thomas, C 20 *Johnson, Frank Albert, G 22 Johnston, Frank Anthony, G 20 Jonardi, Raymond, E 19 Kapish, Robert John, E 18 Kiousis, Martin John, G 19 Koch, David Anthony, E 19 **Lally, Robert John, G 20 *Landry, John Warren, FB 23 Layden, Ehner Francis, HB 19 Mahoney, James Edward, T 22 ***Martin, James E. (Co-Capt.) LT 25 Mazur, John Edward, QB 19 ***McGehee, Ralph Walter, T 21 
*McKillip, William Leo, HB 20 Modak, Daniel, G 22 Mutscheller, James Francis, E 19 O'Neil, John Daniel, FB 20 
***Oracko, Stephen Francis, G 22 Ostrowski, Chester Casimir, E 19 Perry, Arthur R., G 19 Petitbon, John Ellis, HB 18 Saggau, Thomas Henry, HB 20 
***Sitko, Emil Martin, RH 25 Schwartz, Phillip, T 20 Smith, Eugene Francis, HB 19 
•Spaniel, Francis James, HB 20 ***Swistowicz, Michael Paul, FB 22 ToneflF, Robert, T 19 *Wallner, Frederick William, G 21 ***Waybright, Douglas Giles, E 22 
Whiteside, William Anthony, QB .. 20 **Wightkin, William John, E 22 
•Williams,
 Robert Allen, QB 19 Yanoschik, Phillip C , C 24 

•Zalejski,
 Ernest Raymond, FB 23 Zancha, John D. T 19 Zambrowski, Anthony John, G 19 


*Zmijewski, Alfred Adam, T 21 
NOTE: * Denotes Monograms Won. 
 Height 
 5-10  5-8  6-2  6-1  5-11  6-2  6-0  6-0  5-11  6-4  6-0  6-1  5-9  5-9  6-1  5-11  6-2  6-2  5-10  6-2  6-1  6-1  5-11  6-3  6-2  6-1  6-4  6-2  5-11  6-2  6-2  5-10  6-2  5-11  6-0  5-8  6-2  6-0  5-11  6-2  6-0  6-1  6-2  6-1  6-2  6-1  6-1  5-10  6-1  6-1  6-0  6-0  6-1  5-11  5-11  6-0  5-8  6-4  5-9  5-10  5-11  6-1  6-2  6-1  5-10  6-2  6-1  6-0  5-11  5-10  5-11  6-1 
Weight 
190 180 195 175 186 214 185 185 173 222 188 178 170 185 205 171 195 188 182 197 200 190 170 210 192 195 245 190 180 200 197 175 195 195 190 184 188 188 190 190 185 180 175 204 204 188 202 175 197 194 185 185 196 198 185 177 180 195 170 184 195 232 203 186 172 198 180 195 185 195 196 200 
Home Town 
 Chicago, 111 Chicago, 111 Cincinnati, Ohio Yonkers, N. Y Chicago, 111 Athens, Pa Davenport, Iowa Lancaster, Pa. Los Angeles, Calif. Philadelphia, Pa. Chicago, 111 Austin, Minn Chicago, 111 Wheeling, W. Va Hempstead, N. Y
 S. Pasadena, Calif. Chicago, 111 New Orleans, La Pittsburgh, Pa Gary, Ind Milwaukee, Wis Chicago, 111 Chicago, 111 Des Moines, Iowa Cincinnati, Ohio Caruthersville, Mo Turtle Creek, Pa Los Angeles, Calif Chicago, 111 Bethlehem, Pa Muskegon, Mich Lake Placid, N. Y Milwaukee, Wis PhoenLxville, Pa Cincinnati, Ohio Chicago, 111 Pittsburgh, Pa Barberton, Ohio Lakewood, Ohio Wayzata, Minn Cleveland, Ohio Rochester, N. Y. Kenilworth, 111 Erie, Pa Cleveland, Ohio Plymouth, Pa Chicago, 111 McCook, Neb Campbell, Ohio Beaver Falls, Pa Aurora, 111 Lansford, Pa Chicago, 111 Davenport, Iowa New Orleans, La Denison, Iowa Fort Wayne, Ind Madison, Wis LaCrosse, Wis Vandergrift, Pa Chicago, 111 Barberton, Ohio Greenfield, Mass Saugus, Mass Philadelphia, Pa Culver City, Calif. Baltimore, Md Conemaugh, Pa South Bend, Ind Chicago, 111 Erie, Pa Newark, N. J 
High School Class 

 Leo Soph.  Fenwck Soph.  Elder Soph,  Mt. St. Michael Sr.  Austin Soph.  Athens Soph.  St. Ambrose Soph.  Lancaster Soph.  Cathedral Jr.  LaSalle Sr.  De LaSalle Sr.  Saint Augustine Jr.  St. George Sr.  Central Catholic Sr.  Hempstead Soph.  South Pasadena Sr.  Xeo Soph.  Holy Cross Sr.  —Langley Soph.  Horace Mann Jr.  ...Pius XI Soph.  Mt. Carmel Soph.  Tilden Tech — Jr.  Dowling Jr.  .'. Purcell Sr.  Caruthersville Soph.  Turtle Creek Sr.  Mt. Carmel Jr.  Fenwick Jr.  Liberty Jr.  St. Mary's Jr.  Lake Placid Soph.  St. Francis Jr.  PhoenLxville Sr.  St. Xavier Sr.  Leo Soph.  Baldwin Jr.  Barberton Soph.  Catholic Latin Soph.  Wayzata Soph.  CathoUc Latin Sr.  Aquinas Jr.  Loyola (Chicago) Soph.  Catholic Prep Jr.  East Tech Sr.  Plymouth Soph.  Tilden Tech. Sr.  McCook Jr.  Memorial Soph.  Beaver Falls Soph.  East Soph.  Lansford Sr.  Weber Soph.  St. Ambrose Soph.  Jesuit Soph.  Denison Sr.  Central Sr.  „.„EngIewood Jr.  Aquinas Jr.  Vandergrift Sr.  Tilden Tech Sr.  Barberton _ Soph  Greenfield Jr.  Saugus Sr.  LaSalle Jr. . Central Cath. (Detroit).. Sr.  —Loyola Jr. 
 E. Conemaugh Jr.  Washington Jr.  St. George Soph.  Catholic Soph.  East Side Sr. 

Zalejski did not win a monogram in 1948. He earned it in 1946. 
Dec. 9, 1949 
Sisnal-caller Bill Gaudreau calls a play for the Notre Dame Czaja. In front row are Weiihman, Seaman, Carter, Bardash frosh. The back row has Benson, Whaley, Kelly, Paolone and and Kane. On the right, Coach Ben Sheridan watches his boys. 
Frosh Prepare for Future Years 
It is a crisp Wednesday aftei-noon in October; the coaching staff is standing around on Cartier Field watching a few of the early birds go through some limbering up exercises and discussing this and that about football and related subjects. Through the gates at either end of the field the football players start to enter and give their names to the manager stationed thei"e to check them in. Entering opposite the stadium, groups of threes and fours and some­times single indixiduals pass and throw at the manager, usually not yet acquainted with all the players, "Flynn", "Cifelli", "Barrett", "Bush", "Hart", "Wightkin", "Beg ley", "Grothaus", "Toneff", and so on until all the players on the list held by the manager are either checked off or accounted for. 
Meanwhile, down at the other gate, near the Drill Hall, a bunch of green-shirted players are checking in with another manager, "Carter", "Weith­man", "Czaja", "Gaudreau", "O'Callag­han", "Seaman", and many more until this list too is all accounted for. These greenmen, green as far as the shirts go and also gi-een as far as experience on the gridiron goes, compose the freshman football team. Some of them may have been All-League, others All-City, and a few All-State, but all are good football players. 
Someone once said, "the freshman football team of any university is an 
By BILL DELANEY 

important cog in the vital football ma­chine. On such teams the high school stars of yesterday are groomed for posi­tions as the collegiate stars of tomorrow; the boys are made into men." 
This could not be truer than here at Notre Dame. Coach Benny Sheridan and his assistants, Lancaster Smith, Phil Cantwell, and Joe Gasparella train their frosh for a season of hard knocks and bruises. All the freshmen coaches learned their football at Notre Dame and are therefore aware of what Coach Leahy expects of the green-shirted frosh when they scrimmage the varsity. No team in college ranks today, except our own B team, plays as tough a schedule as the freshman team of Notre Dame. Day in, day out, week in, week out, the frosh are pitted against the varsity for experimental purposes. Truly, they are the guinea pigs of the science of foot­ball. Each week they must learn the plays of the following Saturday's oppo­nents and run them against the varsity; then the varsity will tui'n around and run its plays against the freshmen, de­ployed in the defensive positions of the next adversary. Here is where the boys are made into men or else they drop by the way as useless material. 
The Irish never seem to run out of top-notch backs and this year's freshman team may well add a few more. At quarterback the number one boy is Bill Gaudreau who graduated from the same high school in Baltimore as "Bullet Bob" Williams did. Another great? Could be, but he will have to go some to match Bob or any of his great predecessoi's. The rest of the backfield was made up of such men as Ralph Paolone, George Paulik, Bob Kelly, Murray Johnson, and Joe O'Callaghan. 
An overall look at this year's frosh crew shows a good number of boys who should play a lot of football for Notre Dame during the next three years. 
ENDS: Benson, Carlin, Caron, Cron­in, Czaja, French, Griffin, Kohanowich, Lawrence, Meschievitz, Murphy, C, Whelan, E. 
TACKLES: Bird, Cain, Drazeno\dch, Doud, Dunlay, Handley, Kerger, Mcln­erney. Murphy, T., Wass, Weithman, Wuetcher. 
GUARDS: Adler, Austin, Bardash, Bergan, Epstein, Hedge, Kelly, H., Kraft, Seaman, Stroud, Speller. 
CENTERS: AUessandrini, Carter , Fljmn. QUARTERBACKS: Casey, Falken­stein, Gaudi-eau, Welch, Wise, Walniak. 
HALFBACKS: Buczkiewicz, Clune, Emerich, Fredette, Jacobitz, Johnson, McKeon, O'Callaghan, O'Laughlin, Pao­lone, Paulik, Whelan, J. 
FULLBACKS: Kelly, R., McMillen, Rounds. 
The Scholastic 
Printing 

NICHOLLS PRINTERY 
Complete Printing Service For All Student Activities 
210 LINCOLN WAY EAST TELEPHONE 3-1388 
MACHINE SMOKES DR.GRABOW PIPES 
. At the Factory with Fine Tobacco 
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS 
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world. 
Souffi Bend Floral 
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227 
You can rely on 
A REGISTERED 

JEWELER No Breaking In 
Ripe 'n' Ready for Smokin' Steady ^ for... 
• 

HONEST VALUE MANY NEW SHAPES 
SOUND QUALITY $150 • $200 
SKILLED SERVICE $350 • $500 
—ASK 

HARRY E. BERG YOUR 
DEALER InyofM 

Registered Jeweler American Gem Society Briv 
109 W. Jefferson 
Dr. Grafeiw Hpi Ce. tat. CHoii 14, K 
Investments 

ALBERT McGANN Securities Company 
Incorporated 
131 W. WASHINGTON AVE. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Telephone 4-1101 A. T. & T. Teletype S. Bd. 15 
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 
112 E. Washi ngion Ave 
Under Max J\dler Co. 
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE you " 
ii^^^A 
''A(U%e 3^ame'' 
By 
ARTHUR J. HOPE. CS.C 
Here's the only complete story of the University of Notre Dame. Handsomely bound, this is the exciting story of the foimding of a great Catholic university. Fath­er Hope has presented not only the facts but the human story behind the facts. It is a book that every Notre Dame fan should own. For the real alumni and for the millions of subway alumni, "Notre Dame" is a must for every book shelf. It makes an excellent gift book. There are 500 pages, crammed with the real story of Notre Dame. The cost, $4. Send your order to: 
PUBLICATIONS 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
Dec. 9, 1949 

Pack 
Up Your 
Trunk 
WITH SMART, CUSTOM STYLED OR READY-MADE SUITS SENSIBLY PRICED 
Either Ready-Made or Tailor-Made Parker-Winterrowd clothes are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics. The deft handling of color and pattern, and the exacting fit as \vell as flattering fashion. 
SUITS AND COATS 
$50.00 AND UPWARDS 
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc. 
115/2 - 117/2 NORTH MAIN ST. SECOND FLOOR — UPST.MRS 
'SOUTH BEND'S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS 
PATRONIZE YOUR CAMPUS SHOE REPAIRMAN 

PAUL'S 
SHOE SHOP 

B.-^CK OF M.A.IN BUILDING 
Full Line of Shoe Accessories 
fie ^li/i^l4f 
SHOP AT BREEN'S AND SAVE $ $ $ 
Nationally Advertised Watches Diamonds Birthstone Rings Costume Jewelry Roger's Silverware Electric Appliances 

USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN 
BREEN'S 
JEWELRY 
406 S. MICHIGAN ST. Phone: 2-0400 

EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING 
The Scholastic 

THE DU PONT 
DIGEST 
rOR STtf&iNTS OF SCIEMCE AND ENGfNlERING 
CARBON MONOXIDE... FRIEND OF MAN 
Thanks to high-pressure synihesis, if now leads a useful life 
To the man on the street, carbon monoxide is just a poisonous gas that sometimes causes tragic deaths when it escapes from the exhaust of an automobile or from a poorly tended furnace. 
Outside of the chemical field, few people are aware that, properly used, it is a very real friend of man. In the last 25 years, during which catal3rtic 
A. H. Emery, Jr., M.S. Ch.E., M.I.T. '49 and 
M. J. Roedel, Ph.D. Org., Michigan '40 in­specting a high-pressure batch reactor taken from the shaker tube assembly after a run to make 3,5,5-trimethylhexanol. 
and high-pressure chemical tech­niques have been highly developed, carbon monoxide has become a key­stone of industrial synthesis. 
Scientists have found that tmder the proper conditions of high press­ure and temperature, carbon mon­oxide, in combination with other substances, can be converted to a variety of useful products. These or their derivatives range from an acid used in tanning hides to the spar­kling plastics in milady's boudoir. 
You'd hardly associate carbon mon­oxide with anti-freeze. But at tem­peratures from SCO to 450°C. and under pressures of 1500 to 15,000 potmds per square inch, carbon mon­oxide and hydrogen unite to form methanol—a colorless liquid from which is made "Zerone" anti-rust anti-freeze for automobiles. From methanol and carbon monoxide as raw materials, ethylene glycol for "Zerex" anti-freeze is produced. 
Plastics and Anti-Freeze 

Methanol is used also to make a large number of compoimds such as formaldehyde and methyl metha­crylate. The former goes into urea-and phenol-formaldehyde plastics for Hght fixtvures, radio cabinets, hard­ware, utensils, and electrical equip­ment. The latter is the basic mate­rial for "Lucite" acrylic resin with its many uses. 
R. t. Sleorns, B.S. Ch.E., Yale '49 and 
H. Peterson, B.S. Ch.E., Northeastern Univ. '42 checking a multi-stage carbon monoxide compressor used in semi-works operations. 
The reaction of methanol with carbon monoxide leads to acetic acid, which is a well-known industrial chemical. By the same sjmthesis but substituting ethanol for methanol, propionic acid is obtained. From it come the "Mycoban" sodium and calcium propionates that retard mold and rope in bakery products. 
Synthesis in the Future 

Today Du Pont manufactures some 120 different items that are partly or wholly dependent upon elevated 
A. J. Hill, Jr., PhJ). Org., Yale '44 and F. F. Holub, PhJ). Org., Duke '49 carrying out an experiment on a new method for purifying carbon monoxide. The large furnace in this apparatus operates at 1200°C. 
pressures. However, the possibilities have by no means been exhausted. Just recently, for example, chemists have been learning how to use car­bon monoxide in "up-grading" cer­tain petroleum hydrocarbons to give interesting alcohols. One of these, 3,5,5-trimethylhexanol, is prepared from diisobutylene by reaction with carbon monoxide and hydrogen. 
College-trained men and women interested in working in this field at Du Pont may share in discoveries as outstanding as any yet achieved. 
Because of the wide scope of Du Font's activities, young graduates in many different fields have oppor­tunities to select the careers that prove to suit them best as their abUi-. ties and interests develop. 
»ES.U.s.pAT.Off-

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHBMISTKY 
Entertaining, Informattve—Listen to "Cayalcade of America" Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast 
Dec. 9, 1949 
^ 

Football Issue Staff 
NEWS Al Bcdley Jack Bradshaw Dan Brennan Bob Butler Don Carbone Jim Carrig Jim Clark Joe Conlon Ray Doherty Dave DriscoU Charley Dullea Carl Eilberger Bob Finney Frank Haendler Tom Eelley Roger 
STAFF 
Rik Klein 
Joe Lang 
Dan McCarthy 
Lou Meece 
Joe Mitchell 
Bill Moore 
Don Mulvihill 
Jim Murphy 
Robert Murphy 
Jim O'Brien 
George Otott 
Jack Powers 
Ed Raque 
Bill Shidaker 
Don Smith Vorce 

FEATURE STAFF Jim Carroll Larry McDermott Jim Eingsley Robert Romaker 
LAST CHANCE SUPPER 
Al Laporte Jack Ward Bill Weir 
Come to PAPANDREA'S on Thursday Nites for a special Swiss Steak for only one 
SPORTS STAFF 

dollar. Have a good meal to hold you 
Jim Brislin Jack Keane 
over until Saturday. . . . 

John Cox Jack Meaney Mike Cuddihy Ted Prahinski 
Bill Delaney Frank Ronnenberg SPAGHETTI HOUSE 
Jack Economou Bob Rubery Ray Fitzgerald Rudy Unger 415 North Michigan Phone 3-0903 Jack Varley 
The Scholastic 

4^ tlte. Mgi 
FRESHMEN o^^FUTURE 
:_:J.S3^ KID'S KAPS 
NEW — A genuine Collegiate Frosh Cap . . . made just like Dad's (or Grandad's), in school color felts . . . com­plete with school letters and the all-important query "19??" 
STURDY — Made of Grade "A" Felts (70% wool, 30% cotton), the six-piece crown has lapped seams and is sewn to withstand the rough handling of small children. 
ATTRACTIVE — in bright school colors and lettering; the small wearer will be a stand-out in any Kid Krowd. Sizes 6%, 6/2, 65/8 and 6%. 95c each 
GRADUATES«/ ^ PAST 
NEW ND ASHTRAY 
UNIQUE — An attracitve furniture piece in any room, this chrome-plated ashtray is topped by the distinctive crossed N. D. monogram, and has a black plastic bottom. 
BUTT IN, BUTT OUT — No smashing of butts on the bottom of the tray; just place the burning end into one of the two holes in the metal top for a quick put-out! $2.65 p'u^ 15c postage 
Come In or Order TAem Both NOW from 
THE BOOKSTORE. Notre Dame. Indiano 
USE THIS COUPO N — 
Gentlemen: 

Please send me Kid's Kaps, size , and Notre Dame Ashtrays. Enclosed you will find 
my check (or money order) for $ 
Name 

Address . 
City 
Dec. 9, 1949 
Featuring 
CHICKEN rN THE ROUGH 
•
 y-x Fried Chicken 

•
 Shoe String Potatoes 

•
 Hot Buttered Rolls 

•
 Jug of Honey 


"Every bite a tender delight" 
• 
ORDERS BOXED TO TAKE OUT 
$1.05 
Open Sundays 
Around the corner from the Colfax 
JOE NABICHT'S 
Chicken in the Rough 
213 N. Main St. 
Phone 3-1215 
Famous 
Manhattan 
SPORTS SHIRTS 
available in 
South Bend 
at 
Men's Shop—Street Floor 
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES 
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S. 
J. TRETHEWEY 
623 Sherland Bldg. 
Joe the Jeweler 
Phone 3-4269 

104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg. 
# 
m 

(k)llejg(9 mxnt shffidd know I 
This is a prom trotter. All she needs for a weehend is a hop, sip, and a diump. 
Thinks colleges are halls of yearning. Usually dances to meet the band... but goes tvild about "Manhattan's"'^ Wildlife ties. 
These are *'Manhattan" Wildlife ties. 
Hottest thing under a collar this fall. Bright colors, gay prints— made to tie right, resist wrinMes. 
€ 

CAMPUS FAVORITE 
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY 
^^»-„ ^°P^-"^'' '"'• M»h°'Wn Shirt Co, 
-x^^^ 
A-:-:-:*:":-:-:-:^*'^ 
(v
The Scholastic 
SPECIAL 
Ikl I 
BLANKET 
With N.D. Monogram 
All Wool 
« 
$7.95 
Mail Orders Accepted 
R7SC 5 K>=ITZ 
PO>? Mev AND I ^-fOtZ/VC MEN 
MAIN AT COLFAX 
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA 
SLICK IDEAL LAUNDRY SHIRT FINISHING OUR SPECIALTY 
20% DISCOUNT FOR CASH AND CARRY FOR DRY CLEANING 
317 LINCOLN WAY EAST 
Phone: 3-6153 

Would You Like Action Portraits of Notre Dame's Great Athletes? 
WE CAN FURNISH PICTURES: Present Irish Greats— SITKO, HART, MARTIN, and COMPANY. Also such PAST STARS as GIPP, THE FOUR HORSEMEN, and ALL the other former NOTRE DAME PLAYERS. 
Bagby Studios 
n o COLFAX AVE., South Bend, Indiana 
The 

RIGHT FLOWERS for the RIGHT OCCASION 
./WILLIAMS 
the FLORIST 
West of the Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149 
Dec. 9, 1949 
PROVE 
TO YOURSELF 
NO mARETTE HANGOVER 
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS S 
"• \ 

• • „ few seconds yoo can RTove 
;•»»»« •

In lUSt a few se 
PHIUP WO'*'^'*„, 
,%^' i>\ 0 

K-J 
^i isez 
*[

m^/^ 
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure. And PHIUP MORRIS is the ONE cigarette proved 
. • light up your 

r-e« definitely less irritating, 
... light op a 
mm present brand definitely milder, than . PHIUP MORRIS Do exactly the same thing —DONT any other leading brand. 
X. „ nuff-OONT INHAIE INHAIE. Notice that bite, that (ting? 
NO OTHER aOARETTE 
,« N iu«ttak.;P « ^^ ^^^,^ .,, . 
Quite a difFerence from PHILIP MORRIS! 
CAN MAKE THAT 

_ and i-l-o-w y _
ugh your nose. And NOW . . . «»... _ .
Arough your no«. And NO« STATEMENT. NOW YO U KNOW WHY YO U SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS.l 
FOR niUPMORRIS 
The Scholastic v. 

s9 
'AVJVmVJWmWJW,
v.VAr.vv.v.v.v-" 

The Notre Dame 
5 /J^M 

Scholastic 
Vol. 91 December 9. 1949 No. 11 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 18S7 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Author­ized June 23, 191S. 
Editor JOSEPH HEHBINGTON 
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR 

WALTON R. COLLINS-News JOHN H. JANOWSKI .Assistant News 
A. J, SCRIBA Features RALPH H. WRIGHT. Sports WILLIAM RILEY. .Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN._ Photography LEON GARDNER Librarian 
M. A. ALEXANDER.. Advertising LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising EDMOND FOLEY Circulation WILLIAM KLEE Circulation DALE FRANCIS. ..Faculty Moderator 
Jlember of Catholic School Press Association, As­sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. TH E SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina­tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
COVER: Emil Sitko tallies one of his three touchdo\vns against Indiana as the Irish opened the 1949 season Avith a 49 to 6 win. The five Indiana men clustered around Red indicate the usual number of men required to stop the Irish fullback. On the ground is Dolan (53), while other Hoosiers in on the play include: Winston (85), South Bend's Robby Robertson (46), Bosak 
(70) and Witucki (66). 
Sitko, who finished his college career after the Southern Methodist game, has carried the ball over a mile for Notre Dame, since he began playing for the Irish. His average while doing so has been about six yards. The only time when Notre Dame wished Sitko hadn't been around was in 1943 when the Fort Wayne speedster helped Great Lakes beat the Irish. 
—Kodachrome by Jim Ferstel 

Kindly Notice the Collar! 
It's one of Arrow's campus favorites, the wide-spread "Sussex" in fine Gordon Oxford fabric. 
Arrow's smartly styled and long wearing Oxfords are also available in button-down and regular collars. White and solid colors. See your Arrow dealerl 
I ARROW SHIRTS 
1: m > s 
> TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKCRCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS ^ 
It's IDLER'S for 
ARROW 
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON 
Dec. 9, 1949 
CONGRATULATIONS FOR A SUCCESSFUL SEASON 
WE ARE PROUD OF NOTRE DAME 
.^ 
We too are receiving plaudits for the excellence of our 
•
 ALUMINUM WINDOWS 

•
 THERMOPANE 

•
 STORE FRONT DESIGNS 

•
 VITROLITE BATHS 

•
 GLASS & GLAZING 

•
 CUSTOM MIRRORS 



We will gladly help you with any of your Glass or Paint Problems 
.^ 
Interstate 

Glass and Paint Co., Inc. 
SOUTH BEND 

4-1164 4-1164 
SOUTH BEND'S MOST EXCLUSIVE PIPE SHOP 
110 NORTH MAIN ST. IN THE J.M.S. BLD'G. 
The Holiday Season calls for ARROW Formals 
Wearing black tie? Wear the ARROW SHOREHAM! Probably the most popular dress shirt in Night Life. With semi-starched pleated bosom, and smart comfortable ARROW collar $6.50 
Wearing white tie? Wear the ARROW KIRK! Fully starched, with fancy pique bosom and cuffs. A two stud, neckband style $6.00 
ARROW Dress ties $1.00 and $1.50 
Men's Shop — Main Floor 
62 The Scholastic Ji 
Candies Cigars Pipes ^^^^B ta^^H Sundaes 
The 

HUDDLE 
Sodas Sandwiches 
on campus 

Radios ^^^V ^^^B ^^^V Toiletries Lunches ^^^ F Shakes Malts 
newpomi/my 
Be the Best Dancer In Your Crowd 
There are party times ahead. Is your dancing ready for them? Arthur Murray's amazing new discovery— "The first step to popularity"—makes learning to dance easier than ever before. For here is the basic step of all dances and once you master it the rest is simple. In no time at all, you will be able to lead or follow all of the ballroom dances. 
Don't wait—there is no better time to start becoming more popular than right NOW. 
STOP WISHING START DANCING Phone 2-3339 for your free trial lesson today. 
Arthur Murray 
120 E. Wayne Phone 2-3339 
CLUB DANCE EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT 
For Pupils and their guests 

Dec. 9, 1949 
for your Christmas vocation • • stock up on ,% 
whites! ^%^-•••^ 
•.V<i 

W \ ^ .??• W* / * broadcloth or Oxford, $3.65 
Van Tux ivith fine
U 

pique front, S5.95 
It's going to be a ivhite Christmas in shirts and if you're going to do your home town up right, you'd better be well supplied. Popular daytime shirt is the wide-spread Van Britt with French cuffs. For evenings, it's Van Tux with French cuffs . . . white pique front and attached wide­spread or regular collar. Look your best this Christmas in Van Heusen shirts! 
VanHeusetfi., 
"the world's smartest" ullll lu 
PBILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEWYOKK 1, N.Y. 
It's Adlers for Van Heusen 
The Ideal Chnsfmas Gift 
# 
all TIME! 

Preferret/ by Those Who Know ^^ Watches Best! JH} 
We carry a complete showing of America's finest makes of WATCHES from $24.75 and up 
Student Charge Accounts Welcomed 

MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON 111 South Michigan St. 
The Scholastic 
GIVE LEATHER 

If You Can Walk we'll teach 
FOR CHRISTMAS 
COMPLETE 

You to Dance 
COLLEaiON OF 

the GEORGE DAVIS WAY 
MEN'S AND LADIES 

Don't pass up all the good times this year. Learn to 
dance now with one of our talented George Davis LUGGAGE 
teachers. With just a few lessons you'll gain confi­
dence, relax, and really enjoy Fox Trot, VValtz, 
Rhumba, or any other dance. 

FREE TRIAL LESSON 
Gift Items: 
PHONE 3-8229 or Come In • Billfolds 
• Traveling Clocks 

Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio • Pipes 
• Cigarette Cases 

^wfcre a»;^ 
Alice

'ANCE OTUDIOS & HANSARINTZSCH 
George Davis 

106 W. Monroe at Michigan Studio Hours: 10 a. m. - 10 p. m. 138 N. Michigan St. 
PLH yo44A. 1950 VOOCMM, MOW 
12 Day All Expense Tour 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

Southern California 
(Los Angeles) 
Write for further details and tour route 
Westward Ho! TravelfBureau 
EARL J. (Pete) REDDEN Oliver Hotel, South Bend 
Dec. 9, 1949 

Sollitt Construction Company 
INCORPORATED 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Qe4ie/uil Qoiiinjocto^ 
/ ////. 
AT INDIANA TYPESETTING CORPORATION 
211 SERVICE COURT*SOUTH BEND 1, INDIANA 
66 The Scholastic i 
RASMUSSEN MEN'S SHOP 
South Bend's Best 
What a ^eam! 
Wear 'em to dinner... wear 'em to the stadium . . . wear 'em around the hall and wear 'em around the tovyn. Sportcoats and Slacks are the perfect combination for smart comfort wher­ever you go! 
We have good-looking sport coats in corduroy,' flannels, tweeds and cheviots . . . slacks in cor­duroy, gabardines, coverts, flannels and checked worsteds. Stop by today and see all your fa­vorite shades and patterns. 
SPORT JACKETS 19 .95 
up 
SLACKS 9 .95 
up 

Rasmussen 
MEN'S SHOP 

106-108 S. Main 130-132 W. Washington 
Dec. 9, 1949 







