fOOTBMl REVIEW ® 
December 5, 1958 The Notre Dame Scholastic 
^^ 
*^*y^ 
A new idea in smoking! 
* 1*..^/'^ III*! vt. ^ *-_ * ^ » 
^-'»' 
5^. ^Sm^Z^l '" 
•., /^^-. •*-• 
•:4:^­
^fi^^ 


refresties^^our taste 
Ever dabble in a brook on one of Spring's first balmy 
•menthol fresh days? That's how a Salem cigarette refreshes your taste. 
You get rich, full tobacco taste with a new surprise soft­
ness. The smoke feels comfortable as never before. Through Salem's pure-white filter flows the freshest ^ 
•rich tobacco taste 
 in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed Salem!' *==
•modern filter, too taste . . . smoke
. Cr»ot»<J by R J Reynolds Tobacco Companr 
I't • 
4 i 
i. 
MONTY STICKLES BILL MACK 
' 

Stars of the 1958 Irish 
41» 
AL ECUYER GEORGE IZO 
December 5, 1958 
IN? 


^iDheft-^reeman 
ARROW 
< 
ALPA60RA r' 
EXCl-USIVEUY- CX>A.XMA.ICERS 
'B0TANV"'500 Not just famous names — but all the services that go to make up the kind of shop a man likes to rely on. Our reputation was built up>on the keystone of personal attention to our customers,- friendly consideration for everyone. That's why so many Notre Dame men respect the integrity of the Campus Shop and its sales personnel, in the same way they do their personal physician or favorite sports car mechanic. We hope you are one of these men. 




Burbeppys 
"j^JV^/hJ^kootJ CAAAA^ 

On the otre Dame 
Fpothatt Reviiew 


CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . . 
Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. Get what­ever you need, when you need it, and charge it on your account, the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in May . . . one-third in June . . . one-third in July. Naturally, there is no interest or carrying charge. 
On the Campus—Notrt Dam* 
Dpcember 5, 1958 
There's More Than Meets ihe Eye 
THE DIAMOND RING YOU BUY 
All you can see is a beautiful ring ancJ a price tag. But how can you re­privilege and protection against loss of diamonds for one year. 
late the two and be sure of quality and value? How can you ovoid an un­The center diamond of every Keepsake engagement ring is a perfect 
wise choice in the diamond ring you buy? gem . . . free from flaws under ten-power magnification, with fine blue-
The way to be sure is to choose a genuine registered Keepsake white color and expert cut. And behind the motchless beauty of these 
Diamond Ring. Quality in diamonds is judged by color, cut and clarity, lovely diamond rings stands the famous name Keepsake, symbol of qual­
and Keepsake's quality is clearly defined in writing for your protection. ity and value for generations. 
The Keepsake Certificate signed by your jeweler guarantees a perfect In moking this important lifetime choice, be sure to look for the name 
center diamond, regardless of style or price (or replacement assured). "Keepsake" in the ring and on the tag. Many beautiful styles from $100 
Keepsake also registers your ring permanently, assuring lifetime trade-in to $10,000 —at authorized Keepsake Jewelers only. 
Doting is really fun .. . when you know 
THE ART OF DATING 

by Dr. Evelyn Millis Duvoll An expert guide to happy, successful doting to moke your teens the best years of your life. This foct-filled book is written by Dr. Evelyn Millts Duvotl, famous author ond counselor. REGULARLY 52.50 !n hord cover, this book is yours in the exclusive Keepsake edition for only 50^ AND THIS COUPON AT ANY KEEPSAKE JEWELERS STORE. If dealer is not listed in yellow pages of telephone book, write to Keepsoke 
A. MIAMI Ring $675. Also 225 and 450. Wedding Ring 225. B. ROLAND Ring $400. Wedding Ring 125. C. BAXTER Ring $225. Diomond Rings, Syracuse 2, N. Y, for his name. Do not send Also 100 to 750. Wedding Ring 20.00. D. GWENN Ring $125. W»dding Ring 42.50. All rings available either natural or white money, p/eose. gold. Prices include Federal Tax. Rings enlarged to show details. ®Trade-marlc registered. ..•....•.•...•...•..•. • 
Football Review 

The Notre Dame 
121 W. Washington 
Keepsake 
DIAMOND RINGS 
The Popular New Guide to 
Eve\yn 
Reg. $2.50 in hard cover 
An expert guide to happy, successful dating to make your college days the best years of your life. 
Come in — get your copy of 
this special Keepsake edition 
— at this big, big saving. 
Feel free to come in and look 
at South Bend's finest selection 
of Jewelry. 
Credit Available 
to 
NOTRE DAME MEN 
121 Washington CE 4-1311 

Scholastic 
Vol. 100 December 5, 1958 No. 9 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918. 
TEDDY THOMPSON 
Football Review Editor 
TOM ROSE 
Assistant Editor 
BOB SCHAEFER 
Assistant Editor 

GAMES: Art Kanerviko, Teddy Thompson, Ed Rohrbach, Bob Schaefer, Tom Rose, Greg Rogers, Tom Bates, Terry Smith, Tom Edwards, Teddy Thompson. 
FEATURES: Greg Rogers, Tom Bates, Jay Kilroy, Ed Rohrbach, William Carr>-. 
PHOTOGRAPHY: Bob Fancher, Dave Sommer, Walt Wittenberg, The .Associated Press. 
SPORTS STAFF: Tim O'Reilly, William Carry, Jay Kilroy, Dick Ciccone, Jim Lee, George Voris, William Reagan, Dick Corso, Pat O'Connor, Vincent Hatt, 
BOB SEDLACK 
Editor 

RON BLUBAUGH News Editor WALT RUDGE Copy Editor JIM YOCH Features Editor TEDDY THOMPSON Sports Editor PETER HASBROOK Business Manager CONRAD SUSKT Circulation BOB FANCHER _ Photography DAVE SOMMER ^...Photography LYN RELPH Assistant News ROY RUBELI J\ssistant News BOB MARUYAMA j\ssistant Copy CHAS RIECK Assistant Copy TOM ROMANS Assistant Copy FRANK DUDA Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass't Features CHUCK MILLER Assistant Features TOM ROSE Assistant Sports BOB SCHAEFER Assistant Sports BOB HORN Assistant Business FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator 
News Staff: John Beall, Rich Burke, Wade Clarke, Mike Cummings, Bill Galvin, Bernie Hinds, John Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Fred Reynolds, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss, Roy Zickl. 
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na­tional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina­tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manu­scripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
University of NOTRE DAME 
BLAZERS 
• Lightweight Wool 
* Custom Tailored ^ Pull Range of Sizes 
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
ofi-fAe-compus 

December 5, 1958 
iiiK' I9t«>—1.1 

^r sff"^ 
^] 59, IP^/ IP, I d9 /*0 9 89 44 
^ 84 90 6S Sa S6 70 57 SO 39 73 41 18. 27 "l^ 
k, ^ /S^ ^ ' 0^ .n 
.^^r^ W-^.. 
-X T^rapw^aiBti 
'«4<)KWWJWttt««MVVtlKMnMH<HWI^^ JWT -* V »S«flfV««*>a»*i*A*»J>J»»i**W«»fl*»!!a*^ If -i-'A J«ftv>«(K* W^ip* * ' < 
195$ NOTRE DAME FIDHTHG IRISH 
FIRST ROW—(i. to r.): Adrian Doyle (associate manager), Dick Royer, SECOND ROW—Pat Doyle, Bob Scholtz, Paul Loop, Dick Beschen, Joe King, Lou Monzo, Jim Schaaf, Gary Myers, Frank Geremia, Bronko Nagurski, Chuck Charles Frederick, Dick Selcer, Mike Dugan, Nick Pietrosante, Don Costa, Bob Puntillo (Co-Capt.), Al Ecuyer (Co-Capt.), Dick Shulsen, Don Lawrence, Jim 
Williams, Bob Wetoska, Jim Just, Neil Seaman, Kevin Burke, Pete Salsich, Chet 
Colosimo, Norm Odyniec, Frank Reynolds, Ron Toth, John Leahy (head Hobert (associate manager). 
manager). 
THIRD ROW—Gerald McGrath, Tom Rini, Mike Lodish, Mike Graney, Mickey FOURTH ROW—Tom Gardocki, Bill Mack, Henry Wilke, Harold Eatinger, Bill Gorham, Bob Nicolazzi, Mike Muehlbauer, Dick Ciesielski, Al Sabal, Monty Henneghan, Tom Monahan, John Castin, Tony Sanfilippo, Rich Boyle, Mike Stickles, George Izo, Dave Hurd, Ken Adamson, Jim Crotty, OIlie Fior, Ed Nebel, Riordan, Bob Koreck, Bob Pietrzak, Joe Scibelli, Charles Hoffman, Hugo Ryan, 
Dan Deigert, Don White. Richard O'Leary, Mike Baer, Ted Romanowski, Jim Brunette. 
FIFTH ROW—Dan Luecke, John Gillin, John Hubbuch, Roy Ratkowski, George Easeley, Bob Scarpitto, Dan Griffith, Paul Nissi, Don Rigali, Jim Kane, Hov/ard Clifford, Ron Pakukta, John Nebel, Bill Nebel, Frank Gargiulo, Bill Clark, Charles Sacher, Myron Pottios, Bill Pentz, Tom Romans. 
Irish Inconsistent in Opener 
by ART KANERVIKO 
•.'dfe 
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 27 — In the opening game of the 1958 season, the 
* Irish shut out a scrappy Indiana eleven, 18-0. This marks the eighth straight Hoosier loss to Notre Dame teams. 
j Although they shed last year's side­saddle foi-mation and relied heavily on a single-wing, interspersed with a "T" setup, the rebuilt Hoosiers could not 
^ muster sufficient power for a sustained drive at any one time. 
Inconsistent play by Notre Dame was the major factor in their mediocre show­ing in relation to pre-game ratings of the two teams. The Irish had 17 chances to score, yet capitalized on only three. Drives continually stalled after reaching the 20- or 30-yard line of Indiana. 
Bright spots did appear for the Irish offensively in the running of Nick Pie­trosante, who fought for 75 of the 238 mshing yards, and Bob Williams, who weaved beautifully into the end zone from the 20 to culminate a 71-yard drive in the last period. 
Defensively, Notre Dame looked strong both in the line and secondary. The Irish linemen constantly broke through to drop the Hoosier backs for short yardage or no gain, and Indiana's end mn attempts were seldom swift enough to get around the Notre Dame ends and linebackers. The Indiana defense, though rugged in spots, was torn apart by Pie­
^trosante's off-tackle smashes late in the game. The initial play of the game seemed a stroke of luck for the Irish when Tom 
ife 
j Eendrick fimabled the kickoff return on I the 20-yard line. The Indiana 20-yard line became somewhat of a jinx even then as Notre Dame failed to capitalize, and the Hoosiers reclaimed possession. Kendrick picked up a first down, but the di-ive stalled, and McDonald put a fine kick on the Irish 32. 
Williams tossed a nine-yai'd screen to Pat Doyle for a first down. The Indiana defense, strong early in the game, held the Irish, and Pietrosante had to kick. 
Another scoring chance came a few minutes later when Williams hit Bill (Red) Mack with a 39-yard throw to the Indiana 20. A fumble killed Notre Dame's chances of an early score. 
The Irish began to move late in the first period. Norm Odjmiec and Bob Scarpitto slashed by Indiana tacklers for first down yardage. From the I.U. 47-yard line Don White whipped a long pass to Gary Myers. The pass landed untouched on the 17-yard line, but the officials called interference on Hoosier back Tom Campbell, who screened Myers' eyes and prevented the catch. The Irish scored four plays later. 
White, running the third team back­field which was sent in near the end of the first quarter, handed off to Mack who sliced through for an 11-yard scor­ing run. The Irish attempted to JTunp to an eight point advantage with the new run, pass, or kick option. White failed to cross the goal line, however, as end Earl Faison forced him out of bounds along the sidelines. 
Indiana failed to move after the kickoff and immediately quick-kicked, a weapon they used often and well during the afternoon. Notre Dame went to the 
PASS BUDES DOYIE 

air, only to have White's pass intercept­ed and kill the Irish drive. 
Indiana came within striking distance of Notre Dame's end zone jnst before half time. With two minutes left, I.U. came to life' with several power plays and two passes but were left stranded on the seven-yard line as the dock ex' pired. 
Statistics showed Notre Dame to have only 60 yards rushing at the half to Indiana's 64, but the Irish went on to pick up 178 mor^e yards on a tiring Hoo­sier line in the final half. Every march b^un in the third quarter seoned to misfire, primarily because of fumbles or dropped passes. The fine running of Pietrosante and Williams, who averaged five and seven yards per carry respec­tively, failed to coinjiensate for the other failures. 
Williams topped a drive which b^pm at the Notre Dame 29 with his swivel-hipped TD run of 20 yards with seven minutes remaining. in the contest. Stickles' usually accurate toe failed in the attempt for the point and the score remained 12-0. 
A desperation drive by Indiana was thwarted by Scarpitto's timely defoise of Kendrick's pass to Clark. After re­ceiving an Indiana punt, the Irish b^ian a drive to the Hoosier 30. Mike Da^UB, quarterbacldng the Irish, tossed a kog . pass which was snatched nicely from the grips of two Hoosiers by Scaipitto. The drive again stalled, and Scarpitto pnnt-. ed into the end zone. 
With three minutes left, Kendrick fumbled after a. jarring tackle by two Irish linemen, and Stickles fell on the balloon the Indiana seven. On the see-ohd'^play, Williams lobbed a pass to Stickles frran the foor-yard Une for the score. The conversion attonpl^ also « : pass, was batted down by Koicbick.: 
Indiana came bade to end tlie gune oi the Irish six-yard line after a fistiemih­lee caused distracted oflBcials to jSaeekm';.
'rm

incompleted pass at that spot. 
vS TOTH CLOSES IN ON McDONALO 
December 5, 1958 
.V^^^^|^^ 

Ground Power Stops SMU 
by TEDDY THOMPSON 
Dallas, Tex., Oct. 4—Notre Dame used 
the slashing power of fullback Nick 
Pietrosante and a 41-yard touchdown 
run by sophomore halfback Bill (Red) 
Mack to gain a 14-6 victory over a stub­
bom Southern Methodist football team 
here today. 
Pietrosante, one of the outstanding fullbacks in the country today, bulled for 94 yards in 18 attempts and set up Mack's run for the first Irish score. He carried the ball 41 yards in six carries as ND moved from its own ten-yard line to the Mustang 41 from where Mack broke loose for the six points. 
On the touchdown play, the Mustangs were forced to watch Pietrosante, and Mack took advantage of this to speed past the linebackers, cut to his right, and follow the sideline to the end zone. 
Notre Dame's second score came mid­way in the fourth period when quarter­back Bob Williams capped a 72-yard drive by driving into the end zone from the one. End Monty Stickles kicked the exti'a point after both scores. 
The Mustangs picked up their only touchdown after exactly four minutes of the second half had been played. Third team quarterback Ken Lowe of the Mus­tangs intercepted a Williams' pass and returned it two yards to the Irish 4Q. On the second play halfback Tirey Wile­mon took a pitchout from Don Meredith, tore around the right side of the Mus­tang line, and went all the way for the score. Stan Eckert missed on a place­kick attempt. 
Stickles kicked off to the Mustangs to staii; the game, but neither team was able to move against the other through­out the first period. The two teams ex­changed punts imtil Mustang end James Jones fell on an Irish fumble on the ND 31-yard line late in the first quarter. 

On the first play of the second quar­ter, the Irish held Norm Marshall to no gain on a fourth and one play and took over on their own 21. 
Then Pietrosante started the Irish rolling. He hit left guard for seven. Jim Crotty got the first down. Williams gained one. Then Pietrosante gained seven. Pietrosante for ten, but after an incompleted pass and two running plays, Notre Dame had to punt. 
The Mustangs moved to midfield with most of the yardage coming on a 26­yard i*un by Wilemon. But at midfield they were stopped and punted to Pat Doyle who returned to the ND ten-yard line. At this point Pietrosante went to work again. 
He gained eight, five. Crotty got four. Then Pietrosante ripped up the middle for 16 to the ND 43. After Doyle gained one, Pietrosante bulled for five, four, and three yards. Crotty picked up three, and then Mack broke loose on his TD run. 
After the Irish scored, SMU passing star Don Meredith unleashed some of the passes that had been expected all after­noon but which had been withheld up to this time. Meredith completed four of six passes after the kickoif as he moved the Mustangs 56 yards to the Notre Dame 18 in the last two and one-half minutes of the first half. 
The Irish moved the ball to their own 

GREGORY INTERCEPTS ND PASS 
35-yard line after taking the second half kickoff before Williams' pass was intercepted by Lowe. Two plays later, Wilemon broke away for the SMU touchdown, but the Mustangs' try for the tying extra point failed, and the Mustangs trailed 7-6. 
The Irish took the Mustang kickoff and moved to the SMU 15-yard line with two passes by Williams picking up most of the yardage. But there the Mustangs' Glynn Gregory snagged Williams' pass, intended for Jim Just, in the end zone to halt the Irish. 
In the fourth quarter drive, Williams employed Norm Odyniec, Just, and Doyle almost equally as the Irish used 16 plays, and Williams threw only one pass, a screen pass to Odyniec which moved the ball from the Mustang 46 to the 23. 
Following this 23-yard screen pass, the Irish pushed to the SMU two-yard line. 
Here Odjmiec, on a fourth and one situation, got the one yard to give the Irish a first and goal on the one. On the next play, Williams sneaked in for the touchdown. Stickles' kick gave tlie Irish the eight point lead they held at the game's end, 14-6. 
Lowe threw a desperation 40-yard pass after the Mustangs received the Notre Dame kickoff, but White inter­cepted for the Irish. Notre Dame couldn't gain, and Odsmiec punted to the SMU 16-yard line. 
Mustang passes fell incomplete, and Henry Christopher punted from the Mustang 20-yard line to the Irish who put the ball into play on their own 37 following a clipping penalty on the punt return. 
Notre Dame then ran the ball into the ground for the final three plays of the 
MACK BREAKS LOOSE FOR HRST TOUCHDOWN game. 
FootbaU Review 

fielded Monty Stickles' kickoff, and Pietrosante drove him out of bounds on 
Cadets Stifle Notre Dame 
the 17. Two penalties pushed the 
Cadets back to their one-yard stripe where on third down Caldwell stepped 
by ED ROHRBACH 
back into the end zone to punt. An in­
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 11—The dream 

that had been fondly nurtured ever since 
the closing games in the 1957 season— 
an undefeated Notre Dame football 
team in 1958—^was rudely shattered this 
afternoon by Army as the Cadets 
plummeted the Irish from the unbeaten 
ranks, 14-2. 
The game was played in an electrified atmosphere provided by a new Notre Dame Stadium record crowd of 60,564. 
Army, bent on avenging last year's spectacular defeat by the Irish and whipping a team that had beaten them with humiliating consistency in the two schools' 35 previous gridiron meetings, scored touchdowns in the first and fourth quarters for their third straight victory of the year. The Cadets, carry­ing a No. 3 national ranking into the game, displaying a sound, balanced at­tack, capitalized on an exasperating rash of Irish fumbles to give them their eighth win in the series begun in 1913. 
After quarterback Bob Williams moved the opening kickofF to the Notre Dame 19-yard line, a determined Irish ground offensive advanced the ball to Army's 32 where the drive was stopped by Nick Pietrosante's fumble. Now in possession of the football. Army impres­sively demonstrated their vaunted half­back duo of Pete Dawkins and Bob Anderson who spearheaded a march that was thwarted on the ND four-yard line where Williams intercepted Cadet quarterback Joe Caldwell's pass. With Pietrosante bulling into the visitors' line on three straight plays, the Irish netted their fourth first down on the 
15. Williams and Jim Just, right half­back, miscued on the next handoff, and an alert Army defenseman. Bob Novo­gratz, the game's outstanding lineman, pounced on the ball on the ND 21. Thx-usts by Dawkins and Anderson drove the ball to the 16-yard line where Caldwell fired to end Jack Morrison who grabbed the pass on the goal line 
^^'"^•^ ­
and stepped over for the first .touchdown 
of the game. Jim Kennedy's ti-y for the 
placement was wide. 
Irish left halfback Pat Doyle took the ensuing kickoff in the end zone and sped up the middle for 31 yards as the first quarter ended. With Notre Dame's second unit in the game, Ron Toth, full­back, smashed off-tackle for six yards, and sophomore halfback Ked Mack added two. First-string Irish signal caller, Williams, kept the next handoff himself and pushed up the middle for seven yards. Ai-my was charged guilty of a personal foul and the 15-yarder advanced the ball to the Cadets' 38. Three consecutive line bucks by Toth were contained by Army, and on fourth and six Williams' pass to Mack dropped incomplete. 
A clipping penalty marred Dawkins' pitchback around left end, but Caldwell called the very same play on the next down and the Cadets' fleet captain picked up eleven yards. Then Anderson made the first do%vn. With a third and six situation, Caldwell passed to "Lone­some End" Bill Carpenter for a 15­yard gain. Two plays moved the Cadets to the Notre Dame 28, and on third Anny callled on Carpenter again. This time he fumbled after receiving the pass, but fullback Harry Walters re­covered for a one-yard pickup. With fourth and three, Dawkins scampered up the middle for seven yards and a first down on the enemy's 21. 
Dawkins again led the assault for the Cadets and put them within sti-ik­ing distance of the Irish goal with a first down on the ND nine. The Notre Dame line buckled itself together and three plays could only advance the ball five more yards. On last down, Cald­well's pass, intended for Anderson in the end zone, was batted down by Noi-m Odyniec, resei-ve Irish fullback, and Notre Dame regained possession. 
To open the second half, Dawkins 
W-^ -* . 

spired rush by Stickles, charging in from his left end post, caught Caldwell behind the goal line, and the officials ruled a safety although the Army quar­terback vainly tried to throw the ball to a receiver. 
Trailing now by only a scant four point, the Irish seemed, determined to break into the lead. 'Displaying an imaginative offense for the first time in 
DAWKINS AVOIDS TACKin 
the game, ND took the kickoff following the safety and marched swiftly to the Army 34 where they were stopped. 
2:53 remained in the quarter as the Irish made another scoring bid. Just broke loose for 15 yards; Odyniec and Pietrosante banged away, driving the ball to the ND 40 as play moved in­to the final quarter. The march was climaxed as Odyniec streaked around end for 16 yards and a first down on the Ai-my 21. Two incomplete passes after Pietrosante was finally stopped on a line plunge relegated the Irish to a fourth and eleven situation when George Izo, resei-ve quarterback, entered the game, obviously to pass. Izo, however, dropped the handoff, giving Army pos­session on the 23. 
After halting another Cadet offensive series in three plays, Notre Dame took a punt on their 45 and started their third drive of the half. This, too, how­ever, was thwarted as Williams' screen pass to Toth failed to gain on fourth down and three, and Army regained the ball on their 35. A combination of Dawkins-Anderson cross bucks and Caldwell's accurate passing steadily moved the visitors down toward the Notre Dame goal as time fleeted by. With seven seconds remaining, Dawkins circled left end and punched into the end zone, placing the Cadets in an im­pregnable 12-2 lead. Dawkins' pass 
foimd Anderson for the two-points. 
ODYNIEC BEGINS RUN ON PITCHOUT PLAY 
December 5, 1953 
•^»l 
1* 

IZO SCORES AGAINST UNC MYERS ABOUT TO HIT BLUE DEVILS' DAN LEE 
X',1 

STiCKLES BOOTS WINNING HELD GOAL AGAINST BLUE DEVILS RO M 23 YARDS OUT 
Football Review 

f-
SCHOLTZ AND IZO COLLABORATE 
CAROLINA QUARTERBACK CUMMINGS KEEPS ON OPTION 
FRITZ AND KERR CONVERGE ON CROTTY AS HE GATHERS IN PASS 
December 5, 1958 mtmm smsBsamm 
'f^'''^-'-J^'

Field Goal Gives ND Nod ^^ J 
by BOB SCHAEFER 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 18 — Notre Dame's highly rated football squad bounced back from a loss to Army a week ago to take a 9-7 \ictory from Duke this afternoon in a penalty-marred contest. Coach Terry Brennan's Irish put on their best oifensive show of the season only to have a total of nine ma­jor infractions cost them at least one TD and a total of 202 yards rushing. 
The victory, before 59,068 spectators, was the third in four starts for the Big Green. This was the first meeting be­tween ND and Duke. 
The Irish, whose offensive showing had been anj^hing but outstanding in their first three games, came out and put on a wide open show in the first five minutes of the first quarter. Bob Wil­liams returned the opening kickoff to the Irish 41-yard stripe. Then he passed to sophomore Bill (Eed) Mack behind the line of scrimmage, and Mack dropped back and tossed a long pass to Bob We­toska that fell short of the mark. Wetos­ka had an open field ahead of him if the play had worked. 
On the play, however, Wetoska was called for interference as he came back to attempt to catch the ball. This was a hint of what ^vas to come. Duke took the 15-yard penalty and set the Irish back to the 25. 
Mack then hit for four yards off left guard. He then broke loose for 71 yards and an apparent Notre Dame score, but again the officials detected an infraction committed by the Irish. This penalty set them back to the 18-yard line. Bob Scar­pitto hit for four yards, and Nick Pie­trosante dropped back to kick. His kick was partially blocked, and Duke's George Dutrow fumbled it as he attempted to field the ball. Bob Scholtz recovered for the Green on the ND 42. 
Mack again broke loose and raced for 46 yards to the Duke 13-yard marker. Scarpitto got five yards, but Duke held on the next two plays. With fourth down and five Williams dropped back and fired a touchdown pass to end Monty Stickles. The try for the extra points was no good as a pass fell incomplete. With 10:32 left in the first quarter the Irish led, 6-0. 
After an exchange of punts the Blue Devils took over on their own 40-yard line and started to march. Dutrow hit for 11, Wray Carlton made 11, then quarterback Bob Brodhead made a first down on the Irish nine-yard line. Brod­head then passed to Dan Lee for the score. Carlton gave the Blue Devils the lead at 7-6 with his perfect placement. There was 1:48 left in the quarter. 
Just after the second quarter began, the Green started to march again. From the Irish 23, Mack hit for eight. Scar­pitto got 22 with a nice run, but ND was penalized back to the 36 for clip­ping. 
Williams then passed twice to Bob 
FACE TACKLE STOPS PIETROSANTE 
Wetoska for two gains of ten yards and two first downs. The Irish were halted on the Duke 30 wiien tw^o fumbles stop­ped first down plunges. 
On the next series of downs for the Green, Scarpitto's 37-yard scamper sparked a drive to the Duke 25 where Williams' pass was intercepted by Deems Allie of the Blue Devils. 
Just before the half ended, Don White broke into the open on a beautifully executed option play and sped 52 yards to the Duke 25-yard line. The long gain was nullified by a clipping penalty back to the ND 25. 
The Irish opened the second half with another threat. Wetoska intercepted a Duke pass and returned it 17 yards to the Duke 45. The drive was halted on the Blue Devils 31 when a fourth down Williams' pass fell incomplete. 
Duke failed to get a first down, and Dutrow punted to Scarpitto who re­turned to the midfield stripe. Again the Green were penalized for clipping back to the 32. 
Williams ran the option for 29 yards and a first down on the Duke 39. Wetos­ka took a pass to the 18 and another first down for the Irish. 
The Blue Devils then rose up to halt the Notre Dame thrust, and on fourth and five Stickles booted a 23-yard field goal, with Williams holding, to give No­tre Dame a 9-7 lead. 
Later in the third quarter the Irish got what proved to be their only break of the game. Pat Doyle went around right end and threaded his way 25 yards down the sidelines to the midfield stripe. But the Irish were called for holding and ended up on their own five-yard line. On fourth down a bad pass from center 
SCARPinO TRIES TO EVADE LUNGING DEFENDER (Continued on page 42) 
Football Review 

Washington punted out of bounds. On the first play Toth got three yards on 
Irish Rally falls Short 
a draw play. Then Izo threw a 87-yard 
pass to Mack, which was loiled complete on the Purdue 26-yard line because of 
by TOM ROSE 
pass interference. On the next play Izo 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 25 — Notre Dame's frenzied fourth quarter rally fiz­zled out with 1:21 left in the game as the Purdue Boilermakers outlasted the Irish, 29-22, before 59,563 fans in Notre Dame Stadium. The game was played in a constant drizzle. 
Junior quarterback George Izo came 
> off the bench for the Irish in the final period to throw two touchdown passes to Monty Stickles and almost led Notre Dame to victory after the Irish had fc trailed 26-7. Purdue kicked off to Notre Dame to 
ONE OF FEW STICKLES MISSED 

open the game, and Scarpitto returned the ball to the ND 20. Then after mak­ing one first down, the Irish were forced to punt. Pietrosante's boot was taken by Purdue's Ross Fichtner who fumbled as a result of a jarring tackle by Bob Scholtz. Stickles recovered the pigskin for the Irish on the Purdue 30. Four plays later Bob Williams put the Irish ahead, 6-0, with a 14-yard run over left tackle after he had dropped back to pass and found all of his receivers covered. Stickles kicked the extra point to make the score 7-0. 
Late in the first quarter Scarpitto was tackled on the ND one-yard line in attempting to return Clyde Washing­ton's punt. The Irish were unable to move out of danger against the strong Purdue line, and Pietrosante's third down kick was downed on the ND 28. From here the Boilermakers scored in six running plays with fullback Bob Jai-us going over from the one-yard line 
The game was broken wide open in the first eight minutes of the third quar­ter as Purdue capitalized on Irish mis­takes to score three quick touchdowns and build a 26-7 lead. 
On the opening kickoff of the second half Jim Grotty was spilled hard by Purdue tacklers and fumbled. Richie Brooks recovered for the Boilei-makers on the ND 21. Purdue, still relying on its powerful rushing offense, scored seven plays later with Jarus again go­ing over from the one. The PAT was no good as Wilson fumbled the pass from center, and the Boilermakers led, 13-7. . 
Purdue quickly scored another touch­down as Wilson intercepted Williams' pass on the second play after the kickoff and raced 25 yards down the right side­line to the ND five. Jarus then scored his third straight TD, plunging over into paydirt from five yards out. Spoo, at­tempting the extra point, was smothered by Stickles and Scholtz, and Purdue led, 19-7. 
The Irish, after receiving the kickoff, were unable to move the ball on the ground and were forced to punt. Purdue took over on the ND 43 as Kulbacki signalled for a fair catch of Pietro­sante's kick. 
Once again the Boilermakers struck hard and fast as fullback Jack Laraway broke over his own light tackle on first down, cut back to his left, and weaved his way through the Notre Dame second­ary for 28 yards and another TD. This time the extra point was good as Ficht­ner booted a perfect placement to give the Boilermakers a 26-7 lead with 7:18 remaining in the third quarter. 
With Izo in the game at quarterback the Irish took over on their own 34 as again faded back and lofted a pass into the end zone where Stickles went high in the air to wi-est the pigskin away from two Purdue gridders. Stickles added the extra point to narrow the Boi­lei-maker lead to 26-14. 
Notre Dame attempted an onside kick on the kickoff but the ball failed to go the required ten yards, and Purdue took over on the Irish 46. Spoo then passed to Franckhauser for 25 yards and a first down on the ND 11. Here a 15-yard holding penalty set the Boilei-makers back, but Skip Ohl came in on fourth do\\Ti and kicked a 21-yard field goal to Aviden the margin to 29-14. 
The Irish took the kickoff and march­ed 67 yards to the Purdue two-yard line. The key plays in this drive were passes from Izo to Grotty, Mack, and Wetoska good for 13, 13, and 11 yards respec­tively. 
But Izo fumbled on the one-yard line and Turner pounced on the ball for the Boileimakers. The Irish picked up two points, however, as Pietrosante nailed Laraway in the end zone on the next play for a safety to cut the Purdue lead to 29-16. 
Izo once again brought the excited crowd to its feet as he pitched a perfect strike to Stickles on the first play from scrimmage after the free kick by Pur­due. The play was good for 43 yards and a TD to narrow the gap to 29-22 with 2:28 to play. 
Desperately wanting the football, the Irish tried an onside kick once again, and this time it worked. Izo fell on the ball at the Purdue 43. But the fighting comeback tiy of the Green was finally thwarted when Purdue stopped Ron Toth for no gain on fourth down and took over the ball and ran out the clock to escape with a 29-22 victoiy. 
on fourth down. Fichtner's placekick was good, and the game was tied at 7-7. WILLIAMS PRANCES AROUND LEFT END FOR THE FIRST SCORE 
December 5, 1958 
Now All You Have To Do Is Graduate... 

preferred 
^CHICACKI 
H-
BUSINESSMEN 
# 

EXECUTIVES FAMILIES 
»p On Your >es With 
Now that youVe got younelf into college, let safe, handy NoDoz tablets help you get out. Harmless NoDoz helps you keep alert through long, late cramming sessions .. . keeps you on your toes during exams. NoDoz tablets are safe as coffee and much more convenient. 
mm 

During certain convention periods, all 
available Chicago hotel rooms are fre­
quently taken. 

You can be assured of comfortable ac* 
commoiiJations in the heart of the Loop, 
anytime, by writing for your FREE "Pre. 
ferred Guest Card" from the Hotel Ham­
ilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by 
the family, and business executives for 
downtown convenience and courteous hos­
pitality at sensible rates — guarantees 
(with advance notice) reservations any­
time of the year to you, the preferred 
guest. Ask for your "Preferred Gu3st 
Card", today .. . at no obligation. 
Rotes frolh. 5
THE NEW 

HAMILTON 
20 SOUTH DEARBORN HOTE L IH KANSAS CITY IT'S THE BELLERIYE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED 
fH^HS

a^y 
his and tiers 
•..AND YOURS! 
only 
PURITAN knits the 
Brookview $10.95 and Lndy Biodcview 
«10.00 
Exactly alike in every detail and fully fashioned, of course! Puritan has knitted this handsome pair for us in wonderful, abscurbent Ban-Lon yam . . . will not 
Men*sSliop 
shrink, sag or fuzz, and washes without blocking .. . so efxpect them to keep anwr noor their good looks ind^nitdy! Match your colors or be individualists! Oiu* assortment will please you botii! 
Football Review 

Irish Offense Stuns Middies 
by GREG ROGERS 
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 1, 1958 — A dazzling display of offensive power cou­pled with a ci'ippling defense enabled Notre Dame to smother the Naval Acad­emy, today, 40-20. The Middies, in their bid to win three consecutive games from the Irish, were never in the game as the Irish pounded six touchdowns into the Navy end zone to mn up the highest score in nine years against Coach Eddie Erdlatz's forces. The Irish struck with lightning speed and dextei-ity and poured across three touchdowns in the second quarter to sew up the game. The Bi'en­nanmen unfolded a new starting quar­tei-back in junior George Izo and intro­duced the winged-T instead of the oi-tho­dox T-formation. 
It was dark and overcast as 58,000 spectators stood for the kickoff by Navy's Ray Wellborn. Izo took the boot on the Irish 28 and returned the ball to the 45. After a gain of only two yards in three plays, Pietrosante punted to Joe Bellino on the Navy twelve, and he returned to the 24. 
On the first play from scrimmage, Dick Dagampat exploded over left tackle for 13 yards and a first down on the 37. Bellino gained four, and Paul Manko­wich grabbed a Joe Tranchini pass for a first down on the 48. The Middies moved the ball to the Irish 2& but missed a first down by two yards on a Jim Max­field-to-Bellino pass. 
The Irish took over and drove to their first touchdown, Crotty shot over the left tackle for nine yards with Pietro­sante making the first down on the 39. 

f »• Mack went off the right side for nine fol­lowed by Pietrosante for four more to put the ball on the Navy 48. 
Pietrosante then slipped around right end for eleven, and Mack scooted around 

• 
y-
the left side for five more. From the 33 Pietrosante and Crotty earned the ball to the Midshipmen nine in five plays. Then Izo dropped back and hit Mack in the end zone with 4:35 remain­ing in the quai'ter. Monty Stickles ad­ded the extra point, and the Irish were on top to stay, 7-0. 
Navy then threw a scare into the Irish with a fine display of ball handling. Stickles' boot was taken by Dagampat on the eight-yard stripe. Dagampat moved to the left sideline and handed off to Bellino on the 16. The Irish de­fenses were caught unawares as Bellino sped down the near sideline for six points, untouched by an Irish defender. 
Mack opened the second quarter by taking a pitchout around left end and moving to the 15. Ci-otty then circled the same end and advanced to the 32. Izo rolled to his right and pitched to Stickles who was finally pulled down from the rear on the Navy 19. Pietro­sante picked up eight to the eleven, and Crotty slipped over left tackle to the three-yard marker. It was first and goal as Pieti'osante drove around the left end to the zone. Then the hard driving fullback crashed through the center of the Navy defenses for the six points. Stickles added the PAT. 
Stickles' kick went off the side of his foot, and Navy recovered on the Irish 40. An offside penalty coupled with an incomplete pass forced Navy to boot, and the Irish took over on the eleven. Bob Scarpitto, Mack, and Pat Doyle swept outside the Navy defenses and moved the ball to the Navy 34. Royer then sped into the end zone and picked off an Izo aerial for the score. Stickles again added the PAT, and the Irish were out in front 21-6. 
DOYLE GRABS TOUCHDOWN PASS 
The Green continued to roll when they picked up a fumble on Stickles' on-side kickoff on the Notre Dame 46. Izo threw to Gary Myers for 12 yards and heaved a screen pass to Fallback Kon Toth for 11 more. With the ball on the Navy 38, Doyle sped down the sideline, took an Izo pass, and scored the second Irish touchdown within two minutes. Don White's PAT was blocked. 
The Irish struck early in the third quarter with only 4:26 gone in the stan­za. Mack took a Wellborn punt on the Irish 35 and wiggled away from three would-be tacklers and raced all the way to pay dirt. Stickles again converted, and the Irish lead was 34-6. 
Navy struck back with a swift pass play when BeUino slipped behind the Notre Dame secondary and took a Tranchini pass all the way for a score. Bellino then ran for two conversion points and a 34-14 score. 
The game then settled down to a punt­ing duel near midfield. With less than a minute remaining in the quarter, the Irish took over on their own 26-yard line. 
Bob Williams rolled out to his right and hit Myers with a pass. The senior end went all the way for a touchdown, dragging two Middle tacklers over the goal line with him. White missed the PAT attempt. 
With the score-40-14 in favor of the Irish, Coach Terry Brennan cleared ihe bench, and the two teams again staged a mi<^eld battle. The Navy toc& over on their own 24 with about five minutes left and passed their way to. a score. Maxfield tossed to Dick Zembrznski for the TD. The try for points was stopped 
and the Irish won, 40-20. 
PIETROSANTE SWINGS WIDE FOUOWING PITCHOUT AGAINST NAVY 
December 5, 1958 

Mack took the pass and cut back to the right at the Panther 31 and raced to the two-yax-d line before being caught fx-om behind by Haley. The play cov­ex-ed 72 yards and was the longest of 
Pitt Triumphs in Last Minute 
by TOM BATES 
Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 8—Pittsburgh's set the pigskin on the thx-ee. After two 
alert and stubborn Panthers outlasted plunges by Pietrosante, Izo drove in 
Notre Dame here today, 29-26, to hand from the one-foot line, just two xxxinutes 
the Irish their third defeat of the 19-58 and niixe secoixds after the period had 
campaign. started. Axx attempted pass to Stickles 
Panther quarterback Bill Kaliden failed on the PAT try. 
raced around right end into the end The Irish wex-e now leading, 20-15, for 
zone from five yards out with eleven sec­the first time in the fracas, but it was 
onds left and Notre Dame leading, 26-to be a short-lived advantage. The 
22, to give Pitt its fourth touchdown of passing of Toxxcic and the smashes of 
the day and a dramatic victory. Norton Cunningham and Plownxaix quickly 
Seaman's perfect conversion was anti-moved the Panthers to the Notre Dame 
climactic as 5-5,300 limp spectators sank eleveix froixx where Toncic twisted his 
back to their seats. way over for the third Pitt TD. Sea­
The Irish had come from behind twice man's kick made it 22-20, Pitt. 
on the deadly accux-ate passing of quar­The determined Brennanmen moved 
terback George Izo. Izo's 332 yards the ensuing kickoff to the Pitt eight, 
gained passing in the game was the chiefly through the amazing and bril­
best aerial performance in the collegi­liant pass-catching of Stickles who 
ate ranks in the past four years. The grabbed three Izo tosses to account for 
205-pound junior passed for two Notre 29 yards of the 53-yard drive. On the 
Dame scores and scored the other two eight, Izo fumbled, and Pitt's Ernie 
himself. Westwood recovered as the Irish once 
The Panthers, playing what was prob­again paid dearly for an offensive mis­ably their best game to date, grabbed take. five Notre Dame fumbles, including one 
Aix exchange of punts, followed by a 
on the Irish two-yard line. This costly 

second Pitt punt, gave Notx-e Daixxe the 
bobble came early in the second period 

ball on their own 28 early in the fourth 
and led to the first Panther scoi-e. Half­

quax-ter. After two carries by Mack 
back Dick Haley drove over from the 

had lost thx-ee yax-ds, Izo let loose with 
one, and Art Gob caught an Ivan Toncic 

a long toss to the sophomore speedster. 
pass for the two-point conversion. Three plays later, it was Pitt's ball again, by virtue of a pass interception by Don Cx-afton. In a few seconds, Haley scored his second TD, and Sea­man booted the PAT, the scoreboai-d now x-esting at 15-0. Notx-e Dame, undaunted by the 15­point deficit, took the kickoff and max-ched 80 yax-ds for its first score. Nick Pietrosaixte opened the drive with a 23-yax-d burst off right guax-d, and Izo tex-ixxiixated it with axx 11-yax-d pass to left end Monty Stickles. Sandwiched in between wex-e a 16-yax-d toss to Jim Cx-otty and an intex-fex-ence call on a pass to halfback Bill (Red) Mack. A 
pass for Pietx'osante on the point-after was deflected. The scox'e was now 15-6. Later in the second period, the Irish 
cx-ossed the goal line following a 36­yax'd dx-ive. Izo passed to Stickles fx'om eight yax-ds out on fourth down for the scox-e after a 16-yax-d screen pass to Cx-otty had put tlxe Notx-e Darners in scox-ing position. Pietrosaixte caught Izo's toss for the two-point PAT. The 
half ended with Pitt leading, 15-14. 
On the fix-st play, fx-om scrimnxage in the second half Pietrosante's bruising tackle of Panther back Cux-t Plo\\Tnan resulted in a fumble. The recovery by Co-Captain Al Ecuyer gave the Irish the ball on the Pitt 24. The bulldozing Pleti-osante, a 215-poundei-, carried for the day by^ either team. Izo sneaked for his second TD two plays later. The try for two points failed, and ND now led for the second time, 26-22. 

On the first play following the kick­off, the Irish eleven got a break when tackle Doix Lawrence fell on Jim Cun­ningham's bobble on the Panther 46. Howevex-, Notre Dame was unable to get Ml its attack under way this tiixxe, and Pietx-osante punted eleven yards to the Pitt 27. From hex-e Pitt initiated a de­vastating attack. Two first downs, one a pass to Ditka, plus an unnecessary x-oughixess peixalty when the tackle on the Ditka-caught pass failed to bx-ing the Panther end to gx-ound, put the ball on the Irish 28. Kaliden completed a fourth down pass to Ditka on the ND 16 for a first do^vn, and three plays latex-, on the runs of Cunixingham, Joe Scisly, and John Flax-a, Pitt was on the Notre Dame five. Cunninghaixx dx'ove into the middle of the Irish line for three, but on the next play Kaliden was thx-own for a three-yard loss by Dave Hurd. 
On third down, Kaliden's pass was incomplete, and only eleven seconds re­mained in the game. On the fourth down, Kaliden raced far to his right and, with fine blocking, darted into the end zone, barely missing the goal line flag. Seaman's convex-sion made it 29-26. 
Izo's desperation pass to Mack was complete on the Pitt 15 as the game ended. The play covered 47 yards. 
•^ % 
•>'< 
^(, 

six, and then a 15-yax-d piling-on penalty PLOWMAN GATHERS IN AERIAL DESPITE MACK'S EFFORTS 
Tfi Football Review 
Irish one-yard line, and Klochak scored the go ahead touchdown. Dick Royer stopped Cummings as he attempted to sweep around his own left end for two 
Offense Overcomes Tar Heels 
by TERRY SMITH 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 15—After a two-game absence, the Irish returned to the Notre Dame Stadium this afternoon and defeated the Tar Heels of North Carolina, 34 to 24. Though a morning rain drenched the field, the Notre Dame offense churned out a total of 474 pas­sing and rushing yards to overpower the North Carolina defense. 
The Tar Heels, who were mentioned as prospects for the Sugar Bowl, man­aged only 94 yards on the ground, but they outpassed the Irish 184 yards to 151 yards. 
Four of the five Notre Dame touch­downs were evenly shared by fullback Nick Pietrosante and Bill (Red) Mack, with George Izo going over for the other. The golden toe of Monty Stickles man-
SCARPinO BREAKS AWAY 

aged four accurate extra points from placement. And late in the third quar­ter it appeared that these points might make the difference since Carolina had failed to make an extra point in four tries, missing on three passes and an attempted run. 
The initial score of the game was set up early in the first period when the Carolina center, Ronnie Koes, recovered a fumble by Stickles after an eight-yard pass from Izo. The ball was on the Irish 44, and ten plays later Tar Heel quarterback Jack Cummings completed a 
December 5, 1958 
four-yard pass for the score and a 6-0 lead. 
With three minutes remaining in the first quarter, Izo intercepted a pass from Cummings on the Notre Dame 38. A 25-yard pass to Bob Wetoska was the last of the seven plays that brought the Irish down to the 2-yard line. From there Nick Pietrosante bowled over for the touchdown. Stickles kicked from placement, and Notre Dame led, 7-6. 
Early in the second quarter Don Law­rence recovered a Carolina fumble at niidfield, and the Irish proceeded to march the 51 yards in nine plays. Pie­trosante ran for 24 of those yards and then added two more for the touchdown. When Stickles converted, the score was 14-6. 
After the Tar Heels failed to make a first dovm following the kickoff, Cum­mings glanced an 11-yard punt to the Tar Heel 36 where Notre Dame took over. Four plays later Mack scored with a seven-yard run, and Stickles converted. 
With less than two minutes to go in the first half, the Tar Heels moved 69 yards in four plays, scoring with a 33­yard pass play from Cummings to Wade Smith. Cummings attempted to pass for the extra two points, but Jim Crotty intercepted the toss meant for Al Gold­stein. 
In the third period, North Carolina took the kickoff and went all the way down the field for a TD, fullback Don Klochak scoring at the end of a 65-yard march. The Irish worked the kickoff back to the Carolina 28, but Emil De-Cantis snatched off a pass that was in­tended for Stickles. 
Cummings led his squad back to the 
fe.^ 
xJ^ ', 

points, leaving the Tar Heels with a 24-21 lead. 
The fleet Jim Crotty sparked the next Notre Dame touchdown drive as the Irish marched 70 yards in two minutes 47 seconds to regain the lead. Crotty got 51 yards in four mns, and Mack went off tackle for the final 15. Stickles place-kicked the extra point to put the Irish ahead to stay. 
Just before the end of the quarter, Ii-ish fullback Noma Odyniec, a 185­pound senior, broke loose for the longest lam of the day. He took a pitchout from Izo, picked up his blockers, used them beautifully, and streaked down the side­lines for. 56 yards. The Tar Teels held, however, helped by a 15-yard penalty, and the Irish tried a fake field goal from the 14-yard line as the fourth quarter began. A pass from Izo to Crot­ty failed to get the first down, and Caro­lina took over on their own ten. 
Notre Dame forced them to punt and started to move towards the goal again, only to have Wade Smith intercept Wil­liams' pass in the end zone. Then the middle of the Irish line stopped Tar Heel fullback Klochak, a 235-pounder, on a third and one and a fourth and inches situation on the North Carolina 29-yard line. 
From here, with the help of 16 rush­ing yards from Jim Crotty, the Irish ad­vanced to the three-yard line where Izo faked a handoff, pivoted, and rolled into the end zone. This final score of the game put Notre Dame in the lead, 34-24. 
This was the year that North Caro­lina had its highest hopes of beating the Irish who have won eveiy game of the. nine-game series. Much of the credit for the presei-vation of this record goes to Pietrosante, Odyniec, and Crotty, in ad­dition to Izo. Odyniec had the highest individual i-ushing average as he gained almost 12 yards per try in six attempts. The combined efforts of Crotty and Pie­trosante produced 180 rushing yards. 
George Izo, the hero of the new open offense that has been used since the fourth quarter of the Purdue game, com­pleted eleven of the 15 passes that he tried for a total of 135 yards... 
''jm. ^ * "•^ 
-- -1 - -''V 

ODYNIEC FOUOWS THREE BLOCKERS ON 56-YARD RUN 
Hawkeyes* Speed Subdues Irish 
by TOM EDWARDS 
Iowa City, la., Nov. 22—A strong-
armed quarterback, a big pass catching 
end, and a speedy sophomore halfback 
ax-e not enough to build a winning foot­
ball team. This Avas the lesson taught 
hei"e today. The teacher was Coach 
Forest Evashevski and his Big Ten 
Champions—the Iowa Hawkeyes. The 
pupils were the Fighting Irish of the 
University of Notre Dame. 
And the 31-21 lesson handed to the 
Irish was given in full view of 60,000 
flesh and blood fans as well as millions 
more across the country who watched 
the contest on television. 
All the onlookers were impressed by the show which the Hawkeyes put on. But none were more impressed than Coach Teri-y Brennan and his touring group of athletes. They were out-tackled, outblocked, outpassed, and finally outscored by the lads from out where the tall corn grows. 
George Izo was again the bright spot in an Irish loss. He completed 11 passes for 247 yards and two Notre Dame touchdowns. He was on the mark with his tosses throughout the afternoon, but the Ii'ish receivers "weren't always up to catching them. 
Monty Stickles was the big pass catch­ing end for the Notre Damers. He caught three of Izo's tosses for 96 yards, one of them being for the first Irish TD. He also kicked all three of the extra points for the Brennanmen. 
Red Mack was the third Notre Dame player who performed well. He carried the ball ten times for 71 yards but was hampei'ed by a tendency to fumble early in the game. 
The standouts for the Hawkeyes were the entire team. Randy Duncan, Willie Fleming, and Don Norton are just a few of the names. In the end, though, it was 

just a case of one team being too much 
for another team—in skill, in condition­
ing, in desire. 
Iowa got off to their Avinning ways 

early in the afternoon by winning the 
toss and electing to receive. Stickles 
kicked off to Fleming who returned the 
ball back to his own 21-yard line. 
Quarterback Duncan then gave an idea of what the watchers could expect when he fired a complete pass to end Jeff Langston for 12 yards and a first do%vn. But the Irish defense stiffened, and the Hawks could get only eight yards on three running plays. 
The Irish were unable to move and 

had to punt back. After another ex­
change of punts, the Hawkeyes began 
to move, with second team quarterback, 
Mitchell Ogiego, guiding the team. Ogie­
go moved his ball club 57 yards to the 
Notre Dame six-yard line before the gun 
sounded, ending the first quarter of 
play. 
On the first play of the second period, Fleming darted around his own left end for the score. Bob Prescott converted, and the Hawkeyes had a 7-0 lead. 
The Irish took the following kickoff and looked as if they were going to begin to move. In the first period, they had failed to make a single fir^t down. On the first play, Izo threw a screen pass to fullback Nick Pietrosante, and the Notre Damers had the ball in Iowa terri­tory. However, Mack fumbled on the second play thereafter, and Iowa re­covered. 
Izo regained possession for the Bren­nanmen seconds later when he inter­cepted a Duncan pass on his own 28­yard line. This Avas one of Izo's three interceptions for the day. 
Mack got 22 yards at right tackle but fumbled, and the Hawkeyes were on the move again. 
Halfback Bob Jeter carried for eleven yards around end before Fleming got eight more around the same end. With second dowm and two to go, Fleming got behind three Irish defenders and took a pass from Duncan and scored. The play covered 36 yards. 
The Irish could get nowhere following the kickoff, and the two teams again exchanged punts. With 5:56 remaining in the canto, Notre Dame halfback Jim Crotty gained two yards over left tackle. Then, Izo lofted a beautiful pass to Stickles who raced for the TD. The play covered 69 yards as Stickles averted Fleming at the Iowa 30-yard line with a vicious straight-arm. Stickles kicked the conversion, and the Irish trailed, 13-7. 
Notre Dame hopes were high for an upset as the second half began. The second time they had the ball, they moved to the Iowa 24-yard line before 
PRESCOn HOLDS OGIEGO PASS 
the attack stalled. 
The Hawkeyes took over at that point on downs and moved for their third score. This time it was all Duncan. He ran and passed with skill. The key play of the drive was a fourth and six play fx'om the Notre Dame 18 when he fired an eleven yard, down-the-middle pass to Alan Miller for a first doAvn. Three plays later, Captain and fullback John Nocera crashed the final yard for the score. 
It was time for Izo to take to the air. He hit Norm Odyniec for a 16-yarder and then connected on a toss to Gary Myers for nine more yards. On the next play, despite a heavy rush from the Iowa line, he spotted Bob Scarpitto in the clear, and the Irish had another touchdown. The 52-yard pass play brought the score to 19-14 as Stickles kicked the extra point. 
The Hawks weren't rolling over and playing dead at this point, though. Duncan faded back and threw a 53-yard pass to Norton for a touchdown on the sixth play following the Notre Dame kickoff. 
Everything was working now for the Hawks. They kicked off to the Irish, and Charles Lee immediately intercepted an Izo screen pass and returned it to the ND one-yard line before being hauled down from behind. Ogiego carried it the final yard on the next play. 
This finished the scoring for the Hawkeyes. But it was more than enough. Izo countered for the Irish on a four-yard keep play with 7:05 left in the game after Mack had carried the ball most of the way on the Notre Dame 65-yard march. Stickles again con­verted, but the Irish had too little time left. 
The 31-21 score held up until the final gun. Evashevski sent his seniors to the dressing room with a few minutes yet to play. He had no worry. The game was won, and the Hawkeyes were looking forward to a Rose Bowl match on Jan. 1. 
JAUCH INTERCEPTS FOR IOWA 
Football Review 

jans had first and goal on the ND five. A personal foul penalty against Notre 
N,D. Gains Comeback Win 
Dame placed the ball on the one from 
by TEDDY 

Los Angeles, Cal., Nov. 29—Notre Dame struck early in the second half for the winning touchdown and then held off a Trojan drive on the one-yard line to preserve a 20-13 victory here today. 
The Irish took the second half kickoff and moved from their own 37-yard line to the score in only seven plays as quarterback Bob Williams hit right end Bob Wetoska with a 21-yard jump pass for the score. 
Williams then passed to halfback Jim Crotty for the two points after the TD that gave the Irish their winning margin of seven points. 
The game started as an offensive battle with both teams scoring twice in the first half. Dave Hurd, Irish center, started Notre Dame on the way to its first score by intercepting a third-and-
CROTTY HURDLES SC TACKLERS 

ten Trojan pass on the ND 39-yard line and returning it 18 yards to the SC 43. 
Nick Pietrosante picked up eleven yards and a first down on the 32. Bill Mack then went for five yards and then for six more for another first down, this time on the 21. 
Pietrosante bulled for three and then took a George Izo pass for five. After a third down pass fell incomplete in the end zone, Pietrosante powered his way over the right side of the Notre Dame offensive line to a first down on the Trojan ten-yard line. 
Crotty and Pietrosante then each moved the ball four yeards before the Irish fullback pushed the ball across into the end zone with only a little over six minutes gone in the game. 
Monty Stickles' place kick was wide to the left, and the Irish led, 6-0. 
Since the Notre Dame kickoff follow­ing the touchdown went out of bounds, the Trojans elected to have the Irish kick over from their own 35. This time Don Buford, the Trojans' 154-pound halfback, brought the kick back 37 yards to his own 47-yard line. 
 THOMPSON 
on the ND 41 as a result of an off­side penalty before striking for the touchdoTiVn that put them ahead tem­porarily. 
From the 42 Buford threw a touch­down aerial to right halfback Hilliard Hill who was in the clear behind the Irish secondary. 
Don Zachik came in and kicked the extra point that gave the Trojans the lead, 7-6, only two minutes after the Irish had scored the games first touch­do^vn. 
After Southern Cal had kicked off following its first scoi'e, Izo's second down pass was intercepted and returned from the Notre Dame 45 to the 13-yard line. On three successive plays, the Trojans picked up two, two, and one yards. On fourth and five, quarterback Tom Maudlin threw incomplete to Jerry Traynham, and the Irish took over. 
After the Irish had picked up two first downs and moved the ball to their own 33-yard line, Traynham picked off an Izo pass on his own 35 and swept down to the ND 35. After three plays had netted Southern Cal only one yard, fullback Clai'k Holden punted out of bounds on the Irish five-yard line. 
Norm Odjmiec picked up seven yards in two carries before Bob Scarpitto cari'ied for a first down on the 17. Then Scarpitto, helped by a key block by Odyniec, broke loose for 39 yards on a pitchout play to the Trojan 44-yard line. On the vei-y next play Buford gathered in Izo's aei-ial and streaked 38 yards to the ND 24. 
After a four-yard gain, Buford ad­vanced the ball 15 yards, and the Tro­where Ti-aynham dove in for the score. Maudlin's pass for the two points fell incomplete, and Southern Cal had upped its lead to 13-6. 
Crotty took the kickoff and returned it to the Notre Dame 30-yard line where the Irish began a march that netted them their second touchdown. 
With a third-and-eleven situation on the ND 29, Williams passed to Wetoska for a first down on the Notre Dame 47. From there, the Irish moved the re­maining 53 yards in seven plays. 
Williams carried the ball to the Southern Cal 41 on an option play. Then Odyniec and Crotty advanced the ball to the 28. Halfback Paul Re3niolds swept wide to his right for 13 yards to the use 15. 
Crotty took a pitchout to the ten from where Williams found his way into the end zone. The pass from center on the extra point try was fumbkd, and South-em Cal still had a one-point lead, 13-12. 
Taking the second half kickoff, the Irish moved straight down the field for the winning touchdown. Odjmiec went for six and then for 14. Crotty cut off his own left tackle for eleven. Reynolds moved to the 26, and Od3miec got the first down on the 20. On second down, Williams tossed to Wetoska who bulled his way past the SC defenders for the score. When Crotty added the two points on the conversion, the Irish had their winning margin of 20-13. 
Early in the fourth quarter, the Tro­jans professed their last serious threat. Taking an Irish punt on their own 42, they moved to a first down on the Irish one-yard line. But Notre Dame held the Trojans for no- gain on four plays, and Southern Cal's last significant tkreat had died. 
Southern Cal picked up one first down JMACK BULLS FOR HVE YARDS AGAINST TROJANS December 5, 1958 
Irish Seniors 23 Finish ND Careers 
by ED ROHRBACH 
CHUCK PUNTILLO 

Next year's Notre Dame varsity will be minus 23 football players. This is an unusually high number for any team to lose through graduation, but the mere figure here is entirely insignificant. 
Perhaps another indication of their value to Irish elevens, from 1956 through the past season; is that 17 of them earned Notre Dame monograms at one time, or several times, dui-ing their collegiate football careers. But this still tells only the superficial story of the three years of Notre Dame football history they were involved in. 
Their first year of competition, 1956, was the most disastrous in Irish football history. Four of them started, and six more saw action in that season's opener, an "upset" loss to Southern Methodist. Alumni and the rest of the hetei'o­geneous group that makes up the Notre Dame football followers were flaber­gasted. They second-guessed: "Why play all those unexperienced sopho­mores?" 
As the dismal season pushed slowly to a close the fact became increasingly clear—^the coaching staff had to play sophomores; they were the best material available. At times they seemed to be on the verge of reaching greatness. They studded the lineup that outplayed power­ful Michigan State for a half, and they showed improvement with each game. 
The 1957 season looked to be almost as dreary. Paul Homung was gone, and the schedule again was the toughest in the country. But undaunted and deter­mined to ^cw they would not be pushed around, that they were a Notre Dame football team, they paced a team that opened the season with four straight victories. They became a part of the Notre Dame football tradition. The Irish, on sheer spirit, beat a superior Army team and pushed mighty Okla­homa around for 60 minutes. Even be­fore the season was over, the consensus' was: "They will lead Notre Dame to a good Notre Dame football season in 1958—10-0, a National Championship." 
The diBillusioning fact that this team, 

dominated by these men playing as sen-ioi-s, was overrated is evident, but was simply overlooked through this season's first two games. Notre Dame beat Indiana and Southern Methodist, but they were by no means impressive. Surely, everyone thought, they would find themselves and whip Army the next week. Unfortunately, the reverse hap­pened, and, when the Irish played Pui-due two weeks later, they had to forsake "Notre Dame football" to get back into the ball game. To any im­pai'tial observer the signs were clear, but after they wrecked a weak Navy team, the dream was re-established, and 
JIM SCHAAF 

many speculated that an 8-2 season was in the oflSng. Then Pittsburgh turned the screws on the myth, and Iowa com­pletely shattered it. 
1958 was a strange and disappoint­ing football season. The most dis-stressing point is that "this was the year" in most eyes. But the Army loss alone could have done it, like the tie with Iowa in 1953 did it. That is how this past season will be remembered. 
Co-Captain A L ECUYER was a three year i-egular at right gruard. Injuries plagued him his sophomore year, but in 1957 he ' came into his own, making several AU-American selections. Though the injury jinx kept Al out of one game and most of two others this past season, he led the team in tackles and again was rated as one of the country's outstanding linemen. Good-natured Al, whose southern accent seems in­congruous with his football frame, is looking forward to a pro career and should make another fine Irish contribu­
tion to the NFL. 
NICK PIETROSANTE was one of the finest fullbacks ever to play for Notre Dame. The Irish "bread and butter" ball carrier the past two seasons, Nick could always be counted on to bore through the opposing line for the necess­ary yardage. An Ail-American choice as a junior and a sure bet for post­season recognition in 1958, Nick led the team in yards rushing both years. A good punter and an excellent corner line-backer on defense, he, like Ecuyer, wants to go into professional football and should be outstanding. He is best remembered for his stellar play in the 1957 wins over Army and Oklahoma. 
The comeback 1957 season was em­bodied in the comeback play of Co-Captain CHUCK PUNTILLO, He saw no playing action as a sophomore but earned his way into a starting berth at tackle in his junior year. "Pudge" is one of the four senior tackles whose absence on next year's roster poses one of the coaching staff's most difficult problems. 
JIM SCHAAF starting left guard this past season and last, when not out of the lineup with injuries, was probably the most underrated player on the squad. A strong competitor, who tied with Ecuyer for the team leadership in tack­les as a junior, Jim, a sure tackier, was especially adept as a line-backer on defense. 
Three fine ends closed out their col­legiate football careers last Saturday. DICK ROYER, BOB WETOSBLA, and GARY MYERS earned nine monograms between them and at one time or another have all been first team ends, never worse 
DiCK ROYER 
Football Review 
BOB WILLIAMS 

than second from the start of their respective careers. Dick, who excelled on defense and was veiy seldom blocked out on a wide play, begun the year as starting left end and saw almost 250 minutes of playing time in 1958. Bob started at tackle in the first game of his sophomore year but was switched to end where he has performed the past two seasons. A good receiver who moves well down field and uses his 225 pounds to good advantage, Bob has ranked as one of the team's most dependable play­ers for three years. Gaiy Myers, like Wetoska, started at Notre Dame in fine stayle, seeing first string action in the opening 1956 game in his first year of eligibility. Gary's outstanding play of the past year was his 74-yard scoring pass from Bob Williams in the Navy game. 
FRANK GEREMIA, a regular as a soph­omore, and a stai'ter in some games as a junior, worked his way back into the first team lineup this year. Frank was one of the heroes of the 1957 Ai-my game, receiving "Lineman of the Week" recognition. Though pulling a muscle in the Iowa game, he recovered in time for the Southern Cal encounter and ranked high on the team with over 300 minutes of playing time. 
A battle for the starting berth at right tackle was waged the past three seasons by graduating seniors BRONKO NAGURSKI and DON LAWRENCE. Both contenders for the position were big and picked up plenty of football savy in those 30 games. Neither confined their sports activity to football; Bronk paiticipated as a heavyweight on the Irish wrestling team, and Don competed in the Bengal Bouts. 
BOB WILLLAMS has always demon­strated the most poignant aspect of a Notre Dame quarterback — poise. A rib injury this year detracted some of the luster he achieved as Irish quarterback his junior season. His astute signal-calling in that campaign, particularly in the immortal ND victories over Okla-
FRANK GEREMIA 

homa and Army, paced the Irish,to one of their most glamorous seasons. 
NORM ODYNIEC and FRANK KEYNOLDS played their last Notre Dame game Sat­urday but fashioned some of the finest moments in Irish football history. Norm was an inspiration to the team, even when retired to the bench because .' of injuries but like Frank saw plenty of ' action in three years of playing. Rejrn­olds' main contribution was as a blocker, pass receiver, and dependable tackier. > He was the No. 1 left half in his junior year. 
Filling in capably for Schaaf at left ' guard when the latter was injured, DICK SHULSEN came into his own in 1958. Dick received starting assign­ments in several games this fall and proved his worth by making almost 40 tackles during the season. 
RON TOTH, who started as an end but was later converted to fallback where he quickly showed his versatility 
DON UWRENCE 

by being one of the soundest performers on the second unit, was plagued by in­juries all season but still managed to amass one of the best rushing records on the team. 
JIM JUST and MIKE DUGAN were con­sistent players for three Irish elevens and will be sorely missed next season. Jim picked up his third monogram this fall and was one of the squad's most dangerous break-away runners. Mike^ a defensive specialist at quarterback, was noted for his vicious tackling and un­doubtedly would have meant a great deal more to the 1958 team had he not sus­tained an injury early in the season. 
DICK SELCER saw considerable action as a junior but the injury jinx ham­pered him from repeating his achieve­ments this past season. DON COSTA, guard, DICK BESCHEN and KEVIN BURKE, centers, and NEIL SEAMAN and Lou SLiNZO, tackles^ have departed from the Irish scene but all experienced very creditable football careers. 
BOB WETOSKA 
DICK SHULSB4 

December 5, 1958 
ODYNIEC STOPS DAWKINS, ARMY'S MAXWEU AWARD WINNER 
SCHOLTZ, VinLUAMS NAIL TAR HEEL 

TWO NORTH CAROLINA TACKLERS HALT CROTTTS DRIVE 
Football Review 

Final 195$ ton Statistics 
TEAM KiCKOFS RETURNED PUNTING 
Notre Dame Opponents No. Yds. TD TC. Yds. Avg.
206 Points Scored 173 
Crotty 9 228 0 
Odyniec 3 130 43^ 

194 First Downs 141 
Mack 5 94 0 
Scarpitto 8 273 34.1 

120 by Rushing 85 Williams 4 55 0 
Pietrosante 26 877 33.7 

66 by Passing 61 Izo 3 39 0 
Reynolds 1 15 15.0 8 by Penalties 6 Rini 1 24 0 Williams 1 10 10.0 2136 Yards Rushing 1441 Reynolds 1 22 0 Doyle 2 21 9
512 Times Carried 434 
PUNTS RETURNED 
Just 1 19 0

4.2 Yards-per-try 3.3 Pietrosante 1 17 0 No. Yds. Avg.
1561 Yards Passing 1217 Scarpitto 2 16 0 Scarpitto 4 142 35.5 
198 .... Passes Attempted 183 
Stickles 1 5 0 Mack 3 103 34.3 
93 .... Passes Completed 85 
Crotty . 5 64 12.8 

.470 Completion Percentage 464 
Doyle 7 64 9J 

18 Passes Intei'cepted by 22 RUSHING 
White 2 22 11.0 

119 .. Yards Int. Returned 185 TC. Yds. Avg. 
Rini 1 6 6.0 
Pietrosante 117 556 4.8 

3697 .. TOTAL OFFENSE 2658 
Odyniec 1 4 4.0 
Mack 71 429 6.0 

39 Punts 52 Crotty 67 315 4.7 
1305 Total Yards 2026 
Odyniec 58 273 4.7 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
33.5 Average 39.0 
Scarpitto 28 149 5.3 Opponents Fumbles RCCOVMMI 405 Yards Punts Returned 85 
Williams 44 140 3.2 
Stickles, Hurd and Lawrence 2;­

39 Fumbles 34 
Toth 32 111 3.5 
Izo, Pottios, Crotty, Nagursld, 

23 Ball Lost 13 Just 15 88 5.9 Scholtz, Odjmiec and Ecuyer 1. Doyle 28 74 2.6 Reynolds 7 32 4.6 Toddes 
PASSES CAUGHT 

Rini 4 17 4.3 Ecuyer 78; Adamson 53; Scholtz Number ^ards TD White 17 17 1.0 51; Mack 48; Pietrosante 44; Law­Stickles 20 328 7 Dugan 2 4 2.0 rence 43; Geremia 39; Crotty, We­227 1 toska, and Hurd 38; Royer and 
Mack 8 Selcer 1 2 2.0 Shulsen 36; Pottios 32; Odyniec 
Wetoska 12 210 1 Izo 21 -59 -2.8 
and Stickles 31; Puntillo and. Sa-

Myers 9 177 1 
bal 28; Schaaf 26; Williams and 

Scai'pitto 6 155 1 
Scibelli 23; Izo and Myers 21; 
PASS INTERCEPTIONS 

Crotty 13 137 0 
Toth 18; Scarpitto 12; Reynolds, 
No. Yds. Avg.

Royer 7 122 1 Doyl^ and Nagurski 11; Dugan 9; 
Just 1 30 0

Pietrosante 10 78 0 White and Just 8; Rini 7; Loop Odyniec 3 49 0 Hurd 2 18 0 and Pietrzak 4; Burke 3; Lodish 47 1 Wetoska 1 17 0 and Muehlbauer 1. 
Doyle 2 Ecuyer 2 16 0
Toth : 3 16 0 White 1 12 0
Wilke 1 15 0 Pteses Broken Up Izo 4 11 0 
Crotty 4; WilUams, Mack, Doyl^ 
Scholtz 1 8 0 
and Pietrosante 3; Stickles, Scar­
Royer 16 0

SCORING pitto, and Hard 2; Just, Burke, Williams 3 1 0 White, Lawrence, Toth, Wetoska,' 
TD PAT SAF. FG Pis. 
Pottios 1 0 0 Schaaf, Odsmiec, Hurd, Rini, and Stickles 7 15 0 1 60 
Crotty 10 0 Sabal 1. Mack 6 0.0 0 36 Pietrosante 4 1 (pass) 0 0 26 Izo 4 0 0 0 24 
PASSING 
Williams 4 0 0 0 24 
Doyle 10 0 0 6 Att. Comp. Had Int. Yds. TD Pet, Royer 10 0 0 6 Izo -. 118 60 11 1067 9 .503 Myers 1 0 0 0 6 Williams . 65 26 9 344 4 .400 Scarpitto 10 0 0 6 White : 10 4 2 82 0 .400 Wetoska 1 0 0 0 6 Dugan 3 2 0 36 0 .666 Crotty 0 1 (pass) 0 0 2 Pietrosante 1 1 0 32 0 1.000 Team 0 0 2 0 4 Mack -: 1 0 0 0 0 .000 
December 5, 1958 
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . . 
• 
Departmental Fidd Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types 
CHARTER A — 
tZajudLXjnjaJL BOL^ 
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg. 
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP 
Gitering to Students and Faculty 
SHOE REPAIRING 
Heels and Soles 
SHOE ACCESSORIES 
Laces and Pads 
QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE 
In Rear of Administration Building 
NOTICE Leather Sleeved Jackets 
GENUINE STEERHIDE 
LEATHER SLEEVES 
24 OUNCE WOOL MILTON BODY 
IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED 
Special $15.95 
• 
MINKOWS 
303 So. Michigan St. 
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS 
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen's 
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS 
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING 
BREEN'S 
Jeweler 
325 South Michigan Street 

NANS^RINTZSC H  RM WTURBOW  
OPTOmETIIIST  
WE CAN  OPTICA L  REPAIRS  
SOLVE YOUR  EYES  EXAMINE D  
GIFT PROBLEM  CONTAC T  LENSES  
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX  207 W. V/ashington  
Phone CE 2-5881  Oliver Hotel  Phone CE A-STH  

1959 PETE REDDEN ALL EXPENSE TOUR 
TO THE 
Hawaiian islands 
AND THE 
N.D. vs. Univ. of California Game 
BERKELEY & SAN FRANCISCO — 3 DAYS 
21 Fun Packed—Inspiring—Restful Days 
•
 Leave September 23 and return October 13 

•
 Fly to Hawaii via United Air Lines 

•
 Return to San Francisco via Matson Lines 

•
 You have the option to go both ways, by air or ship, if you desire 

•
 Approximate cost is $900.00 

•
 Go for as little as $735.00 (air both ways) ^ Spend 8 days on the Hawaiian Islands 


WRITE NOW FOR DETAILS) INFORMATION 
REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU 
1671 Uncoln Way East 
Phone AT 7-3630 AT 9-^5 9 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA CE 4-7757 
Football Reviewi 

COLLEGE SPORTS EDITORS' ALL-AMERICAN TEAM FOR 1958 
LINEMAN OF THE YEAR" "BACK OF THE YEAR" Al Ecuyer, Notre Dame Billy Cannon, LSU 
Jerry Wilson, end Auburn Monty Stickles, end Notre Dame Vel Heckman, tackle Florida Jim Marshall, tackle Ohio State Al Ecuyer, guard - Notre Dame John Guzik, guard Pittsburgh Bob Harrison, center Okldioma Randy Duncan, quarterback iowd Billy Cannon, halfback LSU Pete Da¥fkins, halfback Army Bob White, fullback Ohio Stote Paul Dietzel, 'Coach of the Year' LSU 
December 5, 1958 
Notre Dame and Ohio State Each Place Two On Sports Editors' Third Annual All-American 
Once again the SCHOLASTIC is pleased to announce its Annual College Sports Editor's All-American football team. This is the third such team to be selected. The poll was initiated by SCHOLASTIC sports editor John Glavin in 1956. 
The three elevens selected in our poll were chosen by the sports editors of college publications throughout the country. Over 300 editors were sent ballots and asked to pick the top player of the year at each position as well as the outstanding coach of the year. 
Besides the three All-America teams and the Coach of the Year, we have also selected a "Back of the Year" and "Lineman of the Year." The back and lineman receiving the greatest number of total votes were awarded these honors. 
The response to our poll this year was vei-y good. More votes were cast than in either of the two previous years. We feel that the Third Annual College Sports Editor's All-American team represents a comprehensive and authoi'i­tative poll. 
COACH OF THE YEAR 
Paul Dietzel, coach of the unbeaten, untied, national champion Louisiana State Bengals, has won Coach of the Year. 
After a mediocre 5-5 season last year, Dietzel this year guided his team to ten sti-aight victories, the SEC title, and a national championship. He Avill send his Louisiana State eleven against Clemson on New Year's day in the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans. 
Dietzel's excellent coaching job this year included victories over such top­notch teams as Mississippi, Florida, Rice, and Duke. Billy Cannon, our Back of the Year selection, is a product of Diet­zel's tutelage. 
ENDS 
The voting at ends was fairly close 
SECOND TEAM 

Buddy  Dial,  end  Rice 
Sam Williams, end  ..Michigan  State 
Phil  Blazer, tackle  North  Carolina 
Ted  Bates, tackle  Oregon  State 

George Diederich, guard....Vanderbilt Zeke Smith, guard Auburn Max Fugler center LSU Don Meredith, quarterback .'SMU Dick Bass, halfback COP o.^j Li^i. A Bob Anderson halfback ...Army Nick Pietrosante, fullback.-Notre Dame 
.~.......^.^........_....................... 
hy Tom Rose 

as Jerry Wilson of Auburn and Monty 
Stickles of Notre Dame made the first 
team. 
Wilson, a 6-2 225-pound senior, has 
been one of the key performers in the 
Auburn defense which has held op­
ponents this year (through seven 
games) to an average of 69.7 yards 
a game. With sore ankles, he caught 
four passes for 61 yards against Ken­
tucky in Auburn's 8-0 win in their 
first game this season. 
Stickles is well-known to Notre Dame fans as one of the most capable pass receivers ever to play for the Irish. He is also tough on defense and especially adept at rushing the passer. Stickles is only a junior and comes from Pough­keepsie, N. Y. The Izo-to-Stickles pass was the bread-and-butter play for the 1958 Irish. He was the leading scorer on the Notre Dame team. Stickles stands 6-4 and weighs 225 pounds. 
The second team flankers, Sam Wil­liams of Michigan State and Buddy Dial of Eice, were close behind Wilson and Stickles in the voting, both finishing within five votes of them. 
Williams, 6-5, 220 pounds, from Dans-ville, Mich., was one of the few bright spots of the hapless Spartans this year. Besides being the Spartans' leading pass receiver, he was an outstanding de­fensive player, and Spartan opponents shunned away from his side of the line. His brilliant play has several times prompted Coach Duffy Daugh­erty to say: "He's the best end in the country, and I wouldn't trade him for any other." 
Dial was easily the outstanding end in the Southwest Conference this year. The 6-1 185-pound senior made a diving, "impossible" catch which football fans in the Southwest are still raving about to score the first TD against Texas in a 34-7 upset win over the Longhorns. Defensively his peak performance was against Army as the Owl line held Anderson and Dawkins to 19 net yards combined. 
TACKLES 
Jim Marshall of Ohio State and Vel  Heckman of Florida are the t\vo tackles  on this year's first team.  Marshall was a big surprise for the  Buckeyes this year. The hulking 6-3  230-pounder from Columbus, Ohio, was  an anchor of the defensive line. His ^^^^ ^^y ^^ *^ y^'^ ^^s against Purdue  when he scored both of the Buckeye  ^uchdowiis in a 14-14 tie agamst the  Boilermakers. The TD s came on an  intercepted pass and a fumble which  ^e picked off in the air and lugged  into the end zone. 
Heckman is a 6-0 229-pounder fi-om AUentown, Pa. He has been a starting tackle for thx-ee years for the Gators and was drafted last year by the San Francisco 49'ers. His play has been a major factor in the Gator's becoming one of the most respected teams in the South. 
The second team tackle berths are filled by Ted Bates of Oregon State and Phil Blazer of North Carolina. 
Bates is a rangy 218-pounder stand­ing 6-3. Generally regarded as the fastest lineman in the West, he can out­run most of the backs on the Oregon State team. His coach. Tommy Prothro, has called him "one of the really great tackles in America." 
Coach Jim Tatum has said of Blazer: "I haven't seen and we haven't played against a better tackle than Phil Bla­zer." The 6-1 224-pound senior is an excellent blocker as well as a terror on defense. Blazer has also been drafted by the 49'ers. 
GUARDS 
Al Ecuyer, bulldog right guard for Notre Dame, has won a spot on the first team as well as being voted "Line­man of the Year." His running mate at guard on the first team is John Guzik of Pittsburgh. 
STICKLES WILSON 
HECKMAN MARSHAU 
Football Review 

Ecuyer, an All-America selection last year, once again was all over the field from his defensive middle at guard posi­tion as he led the Irish in tackles by a wide margin. Ecuyer, 5-10, 205 pounds, has an instinctive ability to diagnose plays and is very fast. He comes from New Orleans, La., and has been a regular three years. 
Guzik was twice selected "lineman of the week" this year for his outstanding performances. He is very fast and powerful at 6-3 and 223 pounds, a fierce blocker and tackier. His coach, Johnny Michelosen says that "he is one of the best middle linebackers I have seen in many years." Guzik has been drafted by the Los Angeles Rams. 
Vanderbilt's George Diederich and Auburn's Zeke Smith have won the guard spots on the second team. 
Diederich at 6-1 and 200 pounds is one of the fastest linemen in the coun­try. He is a trackman and holds the Vanderbilt record in the 120-yard high hurdles. His specialty on the gridiron is defense. This year he made himself or assisted on over 120 tackles. Coach Ai-t Guepe says simply: "Diederich is the greatest guard I've ever coached." 
Smith is one of the main reasons why Auburn led the country in team defense this year. Some Dixie experts think the 6-2 210-pound junior is the greatest defensive guard Auburn has ever had. He has plenty of speed and was partic­ularly adept at pulling out to lead the Plainsmen's wide sweeps on offense. 
CENTER 
The contest for the center position was won convincingly by Oklahoma's Bob Hai-rison. Second team honors 
DUNCAN WHITE 

December 5. 1958 
went to LSU's fine center Max Fugler. 
Perhaps the best testimonial to Har­rison's ability is former Sooner center Jeri-y Tubbs' opinion of him. Tubbs, a two-year All-American himself, says: "As a sophomore, Harrison was doing everything better than I could—and asking me how to do things the right way. He's the best center I ever saw in college." A 6-2 210-pounder, Harri­son is one of the hardest tacklei-s in college football. 
Although small for a college center at 198 pounds, Fulger is the best line­backer in the SEC according to his coach Paul Dietzel. Fugler this year came from relative obscurity to receive acclaim as one of the nation's top centers by virtue of his outstanding offensive prowess in front of the speedy LSU backfield and his alert defensive play at crucial moments. 
QUARTERBACK 
Randy Duncan was possibly the big­gest surprise on the team. Almost en­tirely neglected in preseason polls, the 6-2 200-pounder from Des Moines led the Iowa Hawkeyes to the Big Ten championship and a 'Rose Bowl bid. 
Duncan was the leading passer in the countiy, yardage-wise, completing 101 of 172 attempts for 1,347 yards. He led the Big Ten in total offense with 1,406 total yards. This was accomplished while playing only a nine-game sched­ule. Duncan was the number one draft choice of professional football this yeai", being picked by the Green Bay Packers. 
SMU's brilliant passing master, Don Meredith, is the second team signal cal­ler. Meredith, a lanky 6-3 Texan, is only a junior. For the past two years he has been one of the country's most sen­sational passers. Last year he set a col­legiate record for passing accuracy by completing 71 passes in 102 attempts. 
This year he was  selected  as Sports  II­ 
lustrated's  Back  of  the  Week  for  his  
play against Texas A&M.  

HALFBACKS Back of the Year is the honor accred­uacK oi tne leai is tne nonoi acciea ited to LSU's Billy Cannon. Cannon, , . . . ., ' J. 1 • 1. 1 
only a junior, is the most explosive back 
. r, •' i Oi. J- /• 1 J • I, 
m the country Standing 6-1 and weigh­ing 204 pounds, he can inin the 100 m "TT-' 1- T. 1 TV- J. 1 1. if • 
His coach Paul Dietzel has this opin­ion of Cannon: "Billy's by far the best athlete I've ever coached. Give him a step and he's gone. But if there's no room, he'll run over you, and when he 
does, it hurts." 
Peter Dawkins of Ai-my is the other halfback in the starting backfield. Daw­kins, the recipient of this year's Maxwell Award as the outstanding player of the year, is probably the most versatile player on the team. He is a fast, shifty runner, a capable left-handed passer, and the Cadet's favorite pass rJceiver! Dick Bass of the College of the Pacific was the national leader in total offense 
and merits a spot in the second team 
backfield. 
DAWKiNS, SECOND AMONG BACKS 
Bass, a 5-11 189-poand junior, gained over 1300 yards rushing and averaged seven yards per carry . Bass, who has done the 100 in 0:9.8, is now famous on the West coast for a 30­yard jaunt against California where ten men had their hands on him and failed to bring him down. Two California play­ers actually had two shots at him. Pete Elliott, California coach, had this to say: "Bass is another Buddy Young, only bigger." 
Bob Anderson of Army, who made most All-America teams as a sophomore last year, is once again a member of our second team backfield. Playing^ alongside of Peter Dawkins, Anderson made the Black Knight's backfield one of the best in the country. The hard­driAang halfback from Cocoa, Fla., was the big factor in Ann3r's win over Navy this year. 
FULLBACK 
Bob White of Ohio State is the first team fullback. White, a bruising run­ner and a tireless workhorse, led the Big* Ten in mshing yardage and set a new-record by carrying the ball 178 times in one season against Big Ten opponents. This broke the old record of 163 held by-Paul Giel of Minnesota. He piled up 859  total yards on the ground an average of 
^'^ ^^^^^ ^^ *^^"^ ^**^" * ^ season. 
„ . , pjetrosantp of TCntrP Tiamt^ U th^ 
 iNicK netrosante ol mtre Uame is the 
 second team fullback this year. Slowed 
, , . . . v i iv 
 down by injuries much of the season, 
^^^.^J^i^ ^^^ ^^j ^ p^^^hing runner  ^^ ^^,j ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^/^ ^ linebackers  in college football. 
**  .„... ....... . —.-,..-_.. 
 THIRD TEAM 

 Rich Kreitling, end Illinois 
 Dick Wallen, end ..UCLA  Dan Lanphear,' tackle .Wisconsin  Ron Luciano, tackle Syracuse JQ„ Koenig guard SMU ^^^ Novogratz, guard Jkrmy  j^^,^,^ g^,^,^ ^^^^^^ „...Auburn , ,, _* L L r» I-* •  i?,f J"P?' *'/'"2f'''°*^'' -Californio  fj ... J. '• "°'™*'2[---- "Wg*"  Willie Fleming, halfback Iowa 
 Bob Jarus, fullback : Purdue 
 •,-T.. i, 

It takes a lot of spade work 
to build ^mencas second Icangest ielephom sysberw 
Past, present, future-Gen Tel has an exciting story to relate! 
The past? In just 24 years. Gen Tel has grown from a new company into the nation's second largest telephone system—a corporation that ranks among America's top 35 in gross income. 
The present? Gen Tel operates over 3V& million telephones in 30 states—and is installing 3,750 new phones each week. 
The future? Gen Tel is "at home" in those suburban and rural areas where America is expanding at a record clip. To meet this ever-increasing need for more and better telephone communication. Gen Tel is investing in new facilities at the rate of almost $200 million a year. 
it took a lot of hard work and imaginative planning to put Gen Tel where it is today. And there is no stopping now! 
From here on out, as America grows and prospers, so will Gen Tel. 
GENERAL TELEPHONE 
Fooibatt Review 

moting greater fan interest and dimi­nating tie games." 
Two-Point Conversion Rule 

Dave EfKrards, Fresbmaa EagMnaari 
"Yes.  The rule  causes more variety in  
. .  •  For and Against  the game. It hasn't helped so much this year, but, when the coachies get the  
extra  point plays  down  pat,  the  two- 
by  BOB SCHAEFER  point scoring will improve. I think it is more of a challenge to try for the  

This season saw the first new change in scoring rules in over 50 years. The new rule governed the point after touch­doAvn try, an event which had become, in many people's minds, an automatic one point for the scoring team. This season the rules committee of the Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Association de­cided it would try out an experiment in order to promote greater spectator in­terest in the sport's "dullest moment" and to attempt to eliminate tie games. 
The SCHOLASTIC decided to inquire in­to the thoughts of the N6tre Dame stu­dents in an attempt to get a consensus of opinion on the subject. The question asked was: "Do you think the two-point rule has helped college football, and why or why not?" 
The following are a few of the an­swers received. 
Denny Shaul, Student Body President: "Yes. It has made the game more inter­esting, and it takes away the automatic and dull procedure which followed touchdowns last year and in years previ­ous. The team with a good offense will be helped the most by the rule." 
Don White, Varsity quarterback: "No. I personally don't like the rule. It puts a lot more pressure on the ball­players if they are behind 8-0 than if it is only 7-0. There haven't been that many games decided by the rule. A team which scores first and makes the two points will have a definite advan­tage. But, in the long run, I don't think it will be a factor at the end of a game." 
Ed Butler, Junior Class President: "No. I don't think it adds to the over­all excitement of the game. It does add the element of chance or luck in going for the win or tie if the situation de­mands it. If I was a coach, I would go for seven points unless it meant win­ning or tying at that moment." 
Mike Ahem, WSND Sports Director: "No. I think it detracts from the glory of the touchdown. It adds life to the point after TD tries, and it puts more emphasis on them. It has far better appeal for the fan than the old one-point automatic PAT. It will add ex­citement to our brand of football which emphasizes offense. But on the whole the rule is a coach's nightmare." 
Paul Anderson, Senior Engineer: "Yes. I think it creates more interest in the PAT attempts. It will give the underdog in a game a better chance if it scores first and makes two extra points. A good team will continue to go for the one-point conversion because it is confident in scoring again. I think it will promote more field goal kicking in order to offset the two-point attempts of their opponents." 
Phil Greeley, Pre-Med Sophomore: "No. I don^ think it has made as much 
December 5, 1958 
difference as they thought it would. There have been as many tie games as usual, if not more. I have seen vei-y few teams make the two points. The extra-point kicker will become more important as the teams will try more field goals. I don't think it has promoted any addi­tional fan interest." 
Paul Mulchay, Commerce Junior: "Yes. It changes the whole strategy of the game. I think next year that there will be more perfected plays to get the two points. The way it is set up it re­quires more effort to get the PAT now. 
Frank Callahan, Commerce Fresh­man: "No, I'd rather have the one-point rule. The coach will be second guessed more now, especially if he decides to go for the win instead of a tie. Per­sonally, I would rather see a team go for the two points because it is moi-e exciting." 
John M. Smith, Jr., Pre-Med Sopho­more: "No. I don't like it because it has broken a long tradition in football. It doesn't seem logical to give two points for three yards when often a team has just gone 70 or more for just four more points. It lays the coach open for more criticism when he gets enough as it is. It has not accomplished its purpose in dealing with tie games." 
Dick Neely, AB Sophomore: "Yes, I like it. Since football is a spectator sport, the rule gives more excitement. In a close scoring game, there is always the decision to go for a win or tie. The coaches have more of a burden on their shoulders in making the decision. It gives the fans more of a chance to sec­ond guess the coach." 
Marion Brown, Commerce Junior: "Yes. It makes close games more inter­esting. I haven't seen too many teams go for it, but in the future I think more teams will go for the two points as they get plays to govern the situation. Those tiiree yards are the hardest to get on the field." 
Joe Yovich, Civil Engineer: "No.' I don't think it has helped as many games as they thought it would. It- hasn't eli­minated tie games as they thought it would either. It does add more spirit to the games. Most guys will go for the win instead of a tie if the game is late in the foui-th quarter. The spectators pay more attention to the PAT, but, as a whole, I don't think it adds to spec­tator interest." 
Art Delaney, Commerce Junior: "Yes. It gives the underdog a better chance to win. If the favored team is down by 8-0, or some such score, they will be under pressure more than if the situa­tion was turned around. Then they could easily nSake mistakes and lose the game. It has accomplished its purpose by pro­two points. The coaches will not be 
criticized for ti-jdng for two. If I were, 
coaching a team, though, I would go"for 
the tie if I were down one point." 
Andy Poltorak, Enginecriag Joawr: "No. I am against it. It puts too much pressure on the quarterback and coach in calling the play for the PAT. It is just one more excuse for losing a game. It promotes more interest in that it brings up more controversy over one play." 
Mike Monti, Commerce Senior: "Yes. It adds to the suspense of the game and creates interest in what used to be the low point of a game, the PAT attempt. If a team has a good play to get the points, it deserves to have them even if the game depends on it. There will be a tendency to put the blame for a loss on the new rule, hot I don't fed that the points after touchdown make that much difference in the outcome of a game." 
There you have a few of the ideas which are floating around the campus concerning the scoring rule change. The opinion seems to be divided evenly on the usefulness of the new rule. 
The rules committee could have made a more positive change in the game. The two-point rule is just a novelty to regain the fans which the coll^;e game is losing to the pro league. 
The NCAA could take a more positive step by moving the goal posts up to the goal line and encouraging fidd goal kicking as the pros have done. This way a team can score by moving the ball in close, and, if they don't succeed in scoring a touchdown, they can pick up three points with a field goaL 
The way the rule is now, it cheapens the value of the touchdown. The point of a football game is to score a touch­down. Two teams battle between the goal lines to accomplish this goaL -It. seems imfair that one team gets two points as a bonus and the other team only one. The rule defeats the pmpoae of a bonus point or, as it is now, pmnts. 
The rule has accomplished one of its aims, that to create more fan interest in the extra-point attonpt. Bat its other aim, to reduce tie game^ has fjakd completely. In the Big Ten this season, there were more ties than in any previ­ous season for a long while' bade. ML but one of these ties were a direct re­sult of the new rule. This is not s^rm^ that these games would not have aided in ties if the rule did not exist.bat merely pointing out that th ^ were: n*' fluenced by the rule. . ;V" 
The college game needs ssmedung to hold its followers. Maybe intime^Sbm option rule on extra points will do tlda^ but a more positive change should teve , been made if any change were made. «k^ all. ; ; ;; 
BILL FISCHER 
HENRY STRAM TERRY BRENNAN 

In five seasons as Irish head football coach, Tei-ry Brennan has compiled the commendable record of 32 wins and 18 losses. 
Bill Fischer, guard coach, has been a member of the staif since 1954. Bill Walsh tutors the centers and, like Fischer, is a former Irish star who made an impressive name for himself in pro­fessional football. Bernie Witucki joined the staff as line coach in 1955. 
End Coach Jack Zilly returned to his alma mater in 1956, a year before Bernie Crimmins, who was an assistant coach six years before under Frank Leahy. Henry Sti-am, the only member of the coaching staff who is not a former Notre Damer, marked his second season with the Irish in 1958. Assistant Coach Hugh Devore, the newest addition to the staff, perfoi'med this past year as Freshman coach. 
BERNIE CRIMMINS 
J 1 
BERNIE WITUCKI 
Football Review 

JACK ZilLY BILL WALSH HUGH DEVORE 
^^m^s^^^ir^sa^Qi 

^•jyt^* «ti r • 111:. . «. • ^,.. „-••» ^••, •-, •« - •-<»• -.. ^ ..-—;--••,>.-^->,»--r-a,>j..»-i..^ -••^'''-—-^ '•••'""----f • J.,4-i.t.'rc--..^..yt: WiSS^iS^l^aSSe^ISHKSS^SSj 
Men Who Took Over 
by WILLIAM GARY 
Notre Dame's 1958 football team got some topnotch performances from men not counted on heavily in preseason esti­mates. Because of injuries to front line players these reserves got their chance to play regularly. Coach Terry Brennan and his staff were lucky to have them available. 
The names of Izo, Mack, Pottios, Shulsen, Odyniec, Adamson, and Scarpit­to are mentioned here. These players came through with fine performances for the Big Green. And they came through when they were needed most. 
George Izo started the season as the understudy of Bob Williams. He saw some action in the season opener against Indiana, then injured his ankle and drifted into obscurity until the fourth quarter of the Purdue game. His pas­sing in the final quarter of this game was sensational. He completed nine of 20 passes for 179 yards and two TD's. This becomes more significant when you con­sider the fact that he was passing un­der adverse conditions caused by rain. 
Izo continued his fine work in the succeeding games. Against Navy, he completed 18 of 26 passes for 339 yards as the Irish put on one of their biggest olFensive displays of the year. 
In the Pitt game the Barberton, Ohio, junior passed for two scores and tallied twice himself. His long pass to "Red" Mack in the final eleven seconds almost pulled the Irish up from certain defeat. 
Against North Carolina, he was just as spectacular. Although he didn't pass for any touchdo^vns, his passes set up the Irish touchdowns. He scored once on a well-executed keeper play. His passing was again accurate as he com-

NORM ODYNIEC \ December 5, 1958 
pleted eleven of 15 tosses for 135 yards. Two other passes were right on target, but the receivers couldn't hold onto them. 
Izo's presence in the lineup gave the Fighting Irish a good air arm to com­plement their ground game. His passing made the ground game more effective as the other teams were forced to spread out their defenses to protect against his passing. 
Bill (Red) Mack is a 6-0, 175-pound, sophomore halfback from Allison Park, Pa. Bill scored the first touchdown of the year for the Big Green in the Indi­ana game on an 11-yard scamper off tackle. This was only the beginning, as throughout the season he sparked the team with his spirited play. His per­fomiance in the Anmy game won him a starting job. 
Against Duke, he had a 64-yard dash to paydirt called back by a penalty. Throughout the game, his fine running sparked the Irish. 
He scored twice against both Navy and North Carolina. In the Navy en­counter, he scored on a pass from Izo and returned a punt 65 yards for a touchdown. Mack reached pay dirt against the Tar Heels on runs of seven and 15 yards. 
Besides being a fine ball carrier. Mack also has proven himself to be an adept pass receiver. He is one of the favoi-ite targets of the quarterbacks. On defense, he is a hard tackier. He operates from the left halfback post on defense, and it is his job to cover the deep men on pass plays and make sure that opposing run­ners don't break away for long gains, or worse, touchdowns. 
Another contribution of the state of Pennsylvania to the Irish this season is sophomoi'e center Myron (Moe) Pottios of Van Voorhis, Pa. Pottios replaced Bob Scholtz at center when the latter suffered a knee injuxy in fall practice. He was the only sophomore in the start­ing lineup against Indiana in the season opener. 
Pottios played a steady game all sea­son. He is an effective blocker on of­fense and on defense he was one of the leaders in tackles on the team. He backed up the left side of the line. 
Moe played one of his finest games in the loss to Pittsburgh. In this game, he recovered a Pitt fumble and inter­cepted a stray Panther aei-ial. He also kicked off once. In the second half, how­ever*, he suffered a shoulder separation which sidelined him. 
Dick Shulsen, a senior, hails from Salt Lake City, Utah. When Jim Schaaf was sidelined \vith an ear ailment the week of the Purdue game, Shulsen was called on to replace him. He responded by do­ing more than an adequate job as Schaaf's replacement. 
KEN ADAMSON 

Shulsen showed his alei-tness in the Pittsburgh game. The Panthers were marching for their game-winning touch­down. They had the ball on the Irish four-yai-d line. A Pitt back tried to skirt the right side of the Notre Dame line, but he broke through to spill him for a yard loss, and tempoi-arily stop the Pan­ther advance. 
Number 18 on the varsity is Norm Odyniec. The 5-11, 180-pound senior was a valuable member of the 1958 squad. Although he never attained status as a regular, he could always be counted on for a good peirfonnance. 
The versatile OdjTiiec played both halfback and fullback. As a halfback, he played an inspiring game against Ai-my. He gained 42 yards in seven car­ries and much of this yardage came at crucial times. Defensively, he saved a touchdown by batting away an Army aerial on the goal line. 
Playing in his final home game against North Carolina, he electrified the crowd with a weaving 56-yard scamper that helped spark the come-from-behind vic­toiy of the Irish. He also turned in good performances against Indiana and Southern Methodist. 
For his perfonnance in the Carolina game, the Irish gave Odyniec the game ball. 
Ken Adamson, a junior guard, re­placed Al Ecuyer while the latter was injured against Ai-my. When Ecuyer re­tui'ned to action Adamson moved to the other guard slot in place of the injured Schaaf. He played the middle guard spot on defense and had a hand in many tackles. 
Bob Scarpitto, a 180-pound sophomore, started the Duke game in place of the injured Jim Crotty and sparked the Irish with some fine running. He, along with Mack, accounted for most of the yardage the Irish gained against the Blue Devils. 
These are some of the players who distinguished themselves dui-ing the sea­son with fine performances after replac­ing other players. The success of the team is due in a large part to them. 
Have it mUO of mi 
ARMY - NAVY 

Tmel with tllk. Classifleil Advertising 
AIR FORCE 
Unbelievable Low Cosf 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press 
Insignios Europe 
Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Han at a cost of 50c per line. A minimnm of 
60 »^j:i^tnm $645 

three lines is necessary and all advertising must be 
MILITARY SUPPLIES 

presented by Sunday nifcht preceding publication. 
Orient 

SLt^ $998 SERVICES Gendel's Surplus Sales Many fours inclwa* 
college credit. TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert IAI M low-cost trips to Mexico assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon 
PARKAS AND WINTER CLOTHES 

$169 up. South America $699 up, Publications. Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y. Ha«vaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up. 
You Save Eveiyday at GENDEL'S Ask Your Travel Agent PERSONAIS 
512 SO. MICHIGAN 

26th WANT to reach the students at a nominal rate? 
332 So. MIcMitii Aw. 

Place a classified ad in the Scholastic. 
Year 
rami, mcaicago 4. HA 7-25S7 

KODL KROSSWORD No. 9 f 
ACROSS 2. Breathing 1 2 3 4 Is u 7 8 9 
l*AREVOUKaDL| 
3. Kools for a1. Desert plants , fresher 

10 1 EhJOUGHTO 1 11 
6. Pair-up boats taste all day 

10.
 Steverino 4. Half a pack of 1 KRACKTHIS?*! 

11.
 Cat chat Kools 12 13 

12.
 Italian city .pickle 


(2 words) 
13. Wild plum 

6. Mornings 14 IS 
14. A Gabor (abbr.) 
15 de France 7. Dependent 
16. Blue panting 

8. Switch from 16 17 18 |19 
19. It sustains the "Hots" to 

ml
boom 9. The Adeline 

20. Marriages are type 20 21 23 made for 
p
17. Matchmaker 
22. The last word Kreuger 18. 39.37 inches 

24. The earlier 24 25 26 27 28 Henry Morgan 19. Go together 
26. Postgrad degree 21. They call the 

29 30 31 32 
29. Wotid govern­shots ment 
22. Kool is 30. Kools will most refreshing 

33 35 36 
you cigarette 

32. Thee and 23. Kind of meeting » S3. Car fare 24. Type of dog 38. 40 
35. its 
25. Cornered ugly head (3 words) 

• 1 •
'' " 36. Beaut 27. Leading 41 42 44 
37. Juicy jerk 28. Little 
" 
39. Old reputation 
n

Portuguese coin 31. Girl's name 46 
40. Fire, sack, 34. Flavor 
" 
oust 
36. Beyond the 
48 
41. Run against pale? 
43. Naturally 

38. Horsey hock^ " Kools are 40. Soft-drink 
46.
 Chinese laborer 


flavor 
47.
 A Dahl 

41. lieutenant's 
48.
 Puts an edge on Alma Mater 

49.
 Up 

42. A bit of 40 down 
DOWN 44. Table scrap 
-lo 8ncw R«sh 
L. Made a study 45. The thing of a joint Oegal) 
KODL 

jFltT££. 
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow f^esh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed! 
Enjoy the most refreshing experience ' in smoldng. Smoke KOOL .. . with mfld, nuld menthol... for a deaner, fresher taste all through the day! 
KINO-SiZB 
See answer on page 42 

KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR., OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTERI 
•1»SS. Braim * WiUinmo Toiiano 009^ 

.« „ .*«»«,^igj-'-•^"'^^-''^^'^^.r^:.^/^^'^ 
Football Review 
w^­

Hint for a Remington, ask for a Remington. If it gets really desperate, buy a Remington yourself (it's worth it!). It's the smoothest electric shaver around! 
REMINGTON ROLLECTRIC® FOR MEN REMINGTON PRINCESS FOR WOMEN 
A real man wants, and needs, a real man's shaver... Gentle, feminine shaver. Petite, yet with four times a won-sized RoUectric! Six diamond-honed cutters as much live shaving area as any other ladies' shav­.. . largest live shaving area of all! Exclusive Roller ing implement. Exclusive Guard Combs make it so Combs roll skin down, comb whiskers' up to get your safe it can't chafe; you can shave back and forth— Heavy Beard and Hidden Beard: whisker bases below no need to worry about which side to use for legs or ordinary shaving level. You get close, fast, comfort­underarms. You can apply a deodorant immediatel'g.able shaves that last hours longer! IIOV, AC-DC. Three chic colors: Ivory, Pink, or Blue. AC only. 
PRODUCTS OF V DIVISION OF SPERRY RAND CORPORATION. BRIOGEPORT 2 . CONN. 
December 5, 1958 
EDWARD KRAUSE 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN 
FATHER EDMUND JOYCE 

Notre Dame football is a University organized and operated function. As such, the combined abilities of many people are required to make it a reality each fall. 
The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., is Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame and Chairman of the Athletic Board. 
The passing of the 1958 football sea­son marks the eleventh for Athletic Director Ed Krause. Located in the Athletic Offices with Krause ai« Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics; Bob Cahill, Ticket Manager; and Charlie Callahan, Director of Sports Publicity. 
Jack McAllister, Equipment Super­intendent; Gene Paszkiet, Trainer; and Roger Valdiserri, Asst. to Coach Bren­nan, are also vital cogs in the Irish football machinery. 
1 
HERBERT JONES 
ROBERT CAHILL 

ROGER VALDISERRI JACK McALUSTER GENE PASZKIET 
Football Review 
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT 
love and dating 1 Engagement 
Modesty Keeping company 
Mam'age outside the Church 
Marriage: The rhythm 
Birth Catholic & non-Catholic control Mixed marriages 
Marriage cases divorce 
Have all the answers in one package. Especiolly those answers to questions that people ask or won't ask on these important subiects. 
This is a series of twelve booklets you will enjoy 
SPECIAL OFFEK 
and appreciate. 
Buy this miniature marriage library for only $1. Onginolly postpaid 
published os a book at $3.75. payment with order please. 

MORE THAN ONE-HALF MILLION COPIES SOLD! 
NOW AVAILABLE 
AS A COMPLETE SET 


AVE MARIA PRESS • Notre Dame, Ind. 
This is it Men • • • 

Sir 
GENUINE CORDOVAN 
At 

SMITH'S SHOES 
120 S. MICHIGAN 
Pirker-Wiiterniwi 
Inc. 
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS IISVa-IITVa No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318 

Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Per­sonnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to-wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance. 
Placing your order early means better service. 

Plrker-Wiiternwi 
Inc. 
TAILORS-aOTHIERS 
115Va-117ya No. Main St. 
UPSTAIRS 
Phone CE 3-6318 

December 5, 1958 
Mna i Sqnail Has Speed and DeteminatioH 
On Sept. 15, Freshman Coach Hugh Devore called out his squad of 58 mem-Ijers to begin freshman football pi"actice. Devore was Notre Dame head coach in 1945 and also former Philadelphia Eagle head mentor. He had a squad "that, although lacking over-all size, had sufficient speed and plenty of determina­tion." Coach Devore stated that, with the expected improvement, this year's freshman unit should pro\ade definite assistance to the Irish varsity next fall. 
Assisting Coach Devore with the freshman squad have been Carl Hebert, backfield coach, and Charles Frederick, line coach. Hebei-t was a quarterback for the 1957 Irish and is now a gradu­ate student in chemical engineering. Fi-ederick is a senior, majoring in phy­sical education. 
In the freshman practice sessions, most emphasis is placed on the basic fundamentals. The freshman squad also occasionally sci'immages with the var­sity and sometimes runs the plays of the Irish opponent for the following week. It is from these fall practices and scrim­mages that the coaches learn about the squad's development and ability. 
Because of the shifting of players at new positions or with difFei'ent units. Coach Devore has assigned no definite first or second team. All of the players have opportunities to demonstrate their abilities. 
ENDS 
It is difficult to single out any out­standing freshman end because many are new at this position. However, De­vore indicated that the position posses­ses good speed and agility. With con­tinued improvement, several of the pres­ent ends will definitely help the varsity next season. Charles Augustine, a rug­ged 6-3 205-pounder from San Rafael, Cat., and John Cutillo, weighing an even 200 pounds, from Amityville, N.Y., were both shifted from tackle to end. 
Max Bumell, formerly a quarterback at St. George in Chicago, has been moved to end as was Tom Hecomovich, 6-3, 205, from Bovey, Minn. Hecomo­vich started the season at center. Bill Ford, anotiier 200-pounder, from Ben­ton Harbor, Mich., Les Travers from Al­liance, Ohio, and sturdy Don Candido from St. Louis, promise to add strength to the flanker position. Bill Snyder of Hinsdale, 111., is the laiigest end on the squad, standing 6-4 and weighing in at 212 pounds. 
by JAY KILROY 

TACKLES 
.Although the tackle position is "not composed of big men, it appears that the tackles have suitable speed to make up for the weight deficit." Joe CaroUo, Dave Myers, and Roger Wilke have been the outstanding perfonners and should supply the needed assistance at that po­sition for the varsity next year. 
CaroUo, a 230-pound smasher from Wyandotte, Mich., is aggressive and has good speed. Myei-s is the largest tackle, weighing in at 243 pounds. He played his high school ball for Clay in Toledo, Ohio. Wilke is a tough 6-1, 235 pounds. His brother, Henry, is on the varsity squad. 
GUARDS 
Nick Bueniconti, a solid 210-pounder from Cathedral in Springfield, Mass., heads the list of freshman guards. Bue­niconti's alert linebacking has been one of his outstanding features. 
Paul Crotty, an aggressive 205-pound­er from Buffalo, N.Y., Greg Divis, a St. Louis stalwart who carries 220 pounds on his 5-10 frame, Mike Giacin­to, from Bayside, N.Y., and Norbert Roy from Baton Rouge, La., have also shown that they can be aggi'essive and tough in the middle of the line. 
CENTERS 
Center has been one of the positions hardest fought for on the freshman squad. The centers have the necessary size and speed and also have proven to be quite capable defensively. Gene Vio­la, of Scranton, Pa., has been an out­standing performer. Weighing in at 219 pounds, Viola,is a hard hitter who likes it when the going is tough. J. P. Pow­ers, a 215-pound transfer from fullback, has shown outstanding play. 
Tom Brown of Norwalk, Ohio, the heaviest man on the squad at 245 pounds, Pat Hughes of Tulsa, Okla., who was a guard for Cascia Hall before attending Notre Dame, and 6-4 220-i)ounder Bill Clements from Philadelphia are rugged competitors who are making the battle veiy rugged. 
QUARTERBACKS 
Coach Devore stated that he was fa­vorably impressed by the ball-handling ability shown by his quarterbacks. Speed will more than likely be the decisive factor in the competition for the top quarterback position. Tom Bonofiglio, a sturdy 6-0 and 190 pounds, from Keno­sha, Wis., and 200-pounder Tom Jorling from Cincinnati are outstanding field generals and have been two of the bet­ter ball handlers. Bonofiglio and Jorling also do the punting for the freshman squad. 
Clay Schulz, 6-1, 190 pounds, from Schofield, Wis., and George Haffner, hailing from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, also have handled the quai-terback slot well. Haffner, although weighing only 177 pounds, is a veiy elusive runner. 
HALFBACKS 
As a unit, the halfbacks are impres­sive. They have the speed and the power to develop into top-flight runners and should be in the thick of the competition for the varsity positions next year. George Sefcik of Cleveland, Ohio, has been the outstanding runner. Although weighing only 166 pounds, Sefcik is a constant break-away threat who may present a problem for Notre Dame op­ponents in the future. Mike Lind, a 195­pounder from Calimaet in Chicago, is a fast and elusive ball carrier, capable of scoring at any time. 
Dick Barber, 5-10 and 174 pounds from Logan, W. Va., Tom Liggio, 5-11 and 194 pounds, from West New York, 
N. J., and 185-pounder Gerard Gray fi'om Calvert Hall in Baltimore, are also top-notch runners at the halfback post for the freshman team. 
FULLBACKS 
At fullback,'Joe Perkowski has proven to be a fine runner. A 200-pounder, Per­kowski has the necessary speed to go along with his power running. However, Paul Poeschl, a powerful 195-pounder from Oshkosh, Wis., Dick Nabb, 6-0 and 190, from Rock Island, 111., and Pete Anderson from Maur Hill in Atchison, Kan., a transfer from halfback, are hard-driving runners and are determined to grive Perkowski plenty of competition for the fullback position in the future. 
Because the freshmen have not yet experienced game action, it is difficult to single out any individual player. One thing is known for sure. This deter­mined group of freshmen will be offer­ing stiff competition at every position when the '59 season opens. 
FootbaU Review 

Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year 
Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind. 
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY 
J. TRETHEWEY 
• 

For: Hamilton - Elgin LBIillai 
Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches • 

New Catholic Books' AAissals, and See: JOE, THE JEWELER Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 
110 East LoSolle Ave., So. Bend 
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. BIdg. A Non-Piofit Organization 
Get a head start on your vacation! 
FLY UNITED Am LINES 
Going home for the holidays? Or maybe planning a 
trip somewhere? You'll have extra days for extra fun if 
you travel via United. Chances are you'll save money, 
too. United Air Coach Mainliner®fares are low. Your 
choice offast, convenient schedules to 80 major cities 
coast to coast and Hawaii. See your Travel Agent or 
call your nearest United Air Lines office today. 
» 
BOOKS. 
.The Most 
Gifts 
You Con Give 
HERE ARE FOUR NEW TITLES FROM 
UNIVERSITT of NOTRE DABfE PRESS 

. . . Perfect for Religious and Laymen 
PJIBOCHIAL SCHOOL: A SOaOLOGICAL STDDT 
fay Joseph H. fichfer, S.J. For: Teaching Priests, Sisters and Brothers, public and parochial school administrators, sociolocrists and parents of children in paro­chial schools. MJB 

THE MEANING OF SACBED SCSUPTUHE by Rev. Louis Bouyer. For: Liturgists, Biblicists and lar people. $4.75 
THE DOGMA OF THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTIOH 
Edited by Edward 0 . O'Connor, C.S.C. 
For: Theologians. Religious, and lay people, particularly interested in Marian doctrine. SlflLH 

WOBSHIP: THE UFB OF THE MISSIONS 
by Johannes Hofinger, SJ. For: Missionaries and those oaor nected in any way with foreign missions, and for liturgists. SdS 
AT THE 
NOTRE DAME 5 BOOKSTORE, 
Notre Dame, IndRami^: ^ ; 
\-4-V-

December 5, 1958 
Georgia Tech, Northwestern, Michigan State, California are New Opponents on 1959 Slate 
by TOM BATES 
Noti-e Dame will have four new op­ponents on its 1959 schedule as recently announced by Athletic Director Ed Ki'ause. 
California's (Jolden Bears, the Spar­tans of Michigan State, Georgia Tech's Engineers, and Northwestem's Wildcats ai'e the newcomers while Indiana, Southern Methodist, Army, and Duke do not appear on the Irish slate. 
The ND eleven will open at home on Sept. 26, facing North Carolina. The Irish will be out to run their win streak to nine over the Tar Heels but once again will have to outperform quarter­back Jack Cummings and 225-pound fullback Don Klochak. Rip Hawkins, a fine center, will lead the Tar Heel line forces. Jim Schuler, a halfback, will also be back again. 
The fii'st away game follows with ND traveling to Lafayette, Ind., to engage state rival Purdue. Notre Dame vnll be after its 21st victory in the series, against seven losses and two ties. Pur­due lost its quarterback Bob Spoo and an outstanding end in Tom Franck­hauser but will return fullback Bob Jams, one of the Big Ten's top scorers, halfbacks Lennie Wilson and Clyde Washington, guards Fred Brandel, John Ciccone, and Ron Maltony, the latter one of the outstanding linemen in the mid­west, and end Dick Brooks. Quarter­back Ross Fichtner, who has seen con­siderable action for the Boilermakers, will probably man the signal-calling slot. 
The following week Notre Dame trav­els to Berkeley, Calif., to take on Pacific Coast champion California. This will be the first gridiron meeting between the two schools. The Beai-s ended the 1958 campaign with a 7-3 mark and earned a berth in the Rose Bowl against Iowa. Coach Pete Elliott will lose quarterback Joe Kapp and halfback Jack Hart but has Skip Huber returning at the termi­nal spot. The Cal eleven was a young squad in 1958 which indicates they should have experience this coming season. 
Notre Dame will meet Michigan State for its fourth game of the year and third straight away contest, Oct. 17 at East Lansing, Mich. Since 1950 the Irish have beaten the Spartans only once in seven tries although the series stands 16-8 in favor of Notre Dame. The Spar­tans finished last in the Big Ten this year and had only a 3-5-1 mark, but the coaches have promised they will be better in 1959. Spartan losses include end Sammy Williams, but 40 lettermen will return for another campaign, in­cluding halfback Dean Look and center Don Wright. Back Blanche Martin, who sat out this past season with an injury, should be available for duty also. In­dications are, also, that MSU may have come up with an outstanding quarter­back in Leroy Loudermilk, a sophomore 
BOB JARUS, PURDUE 

in 1959, although three signal-callers 
are among the lettermen. 
The Irish open a mid-season home stand on Oct. 24 by hosting back­yard rival, Northwestern, an early sea­son surprise during 1958. The Wildcats have back nine starters from their last game against Illinois this year, and, of the 26 men used against the Illini, only three are being graduated. The returnees will be led by speedy halfback Ron Bui-ton, whose 12 touchdowns and four PAT's for 76 points gave him the Big Ten scoring championship this campaign. Quarterback Dick Thornton, sixth in the conference scoring race, also is back as are ends El Kimbrough and Doug Asad, tackle Gene Gossage, guards Joe Abbatiello and Pete Arena, and center Jim Andreotti. At fullback, Mike Stock will bolster the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame and Northwestern have not met since 1948 when the Irish scored a 12-7 decision. The last Wildcat win ex­tends back to 1940 and a 20-0 triumph. The series, which dates back to 1889 with a 9-0 Notre Dame victory, stands at 23 wins for the Irish against three losses and two ties. 
The Midshipmen of Navy will visit Notre Dame on October 31 for the fifth contest on the Irish card. Although ND will be seeking its 26th win (four losses and one tie), they will be facing once again the passing of quarterback Joe Tranchini and the running of Joe Bel-lino, a halfback, and fullback Joe Mata-lavage. Bellino scooted 92 yards with a kickolF in the '58 Irish-Middie battle. Othei's back will include center Frank Gansz, end Tom Hyde, tackle Lariy Beyer, and halfback Roland Brandquist. 
Georgia Tech will engage the Irish in the Notre Dame Stadium on Nov. 7 where in 1953, the last time the two elevens met, Notre Dame snapped the Eniriheers' 31-game vnnning streak with a 27-14 decision, behind the efforts of Ralph Guglielmi and John Lattner. 
Coach Bobby Dodd entrained a young team in 1958 which will send back for 
JACK CUJMMINGS HANDS OFF TO JIM SCHUIER FOR UNC another season center Maxie Baughan, 
Football Review 

fullback Ben Smith, and halfbacks Frank Nix and Ronnie Lewis. Nix has been clocked for the 60-yard dash at 6.4. 
Nov. 14, will find Notre Dame on the road again, this time at Pittsburgh to try and retaliate for this year's loss to the Panthers. Coach John Micheloson's veterans are led by quarterback Ivan Toncic and junior end Mike Ditka, a possible Ail-American candidate in 1959. Halves Joe Scisly and Curt Plowman plus fullback Jim Cunningham will bolster the Panther backfield, and line­men likely to see considerable service include tackles Ernie Westwood, Ken Montanari, and Bill Lindner. 
JIM ANDREOni, NORTHWESTERN 

The ninth game of the season is against Iowa's Hawkeyes, again at Iowa City, on Nov. 21. The Hawkeyes have beaten Notre Dame the past three sea­sons although the Irish still retain the edge in the series, with eight wins against six losses and three ties. 
Coach Forest Evashevski will have back from his 1958 Big Ten Champions halfbacks Willie Fleming and Bob Jeter, who are well remembered by Irish fans for their performances in the past sea­son's battle between the two schools. A capable performer in Mitchell Ogiego is the probable Iowa quarterback, and heading the line forces will be ends Curtis Merz and Don Norton, tackle John Sawin, guard Don Shipanik, and 235-pound center Bill Lapham. Ray Jauch, a halfback, is another returning veteran. Iowa, however, lost quarter­back Randy Duncan, fullback John Nocera, and center Mac Lewis. 
The Irish close their next season with a home game on Nov. 28, with Southern California pi'oviding the opposition. The Trojans' last visit here in 1957 netted the Irish a 40-12 win against a young squad, many of whom will face Notre Dame in 1959. Outstanding among the Trojans are the McKeever twins and halfback Angelo Coia. Marlin McKee­ver is an end, and brother Mike a guard. 
TIME OUT 
The year 1956 was one of discouragement. Notre Dame was not sup­
posed to have 2-8 seasons, but the material just wasn't there. Last year 
was a year of promise. The team played well throughout the season with 
a few exceptions and played exceptionally well against strong Ai-my and 
Oklahoma squads. 

But 1958 was supposed to be the best year. From a team that compiled 
a 7-3 record, the Irish suffered only a few losses, and many were fore­
casting a national championship for Notre Dame. But 1958 was a year 
of disappointment. 

This year's team won only six of ten games against a schedule that 
was certainly no harder than last year's. Eight of the teams were the 
same; Oklahoma and Michigan State were the two teams faced last year 
that did not return to the Irish slate this year. 
STRONG TEAM BACK, BUT . . . 

Notre Dame had approximately 25 lettennen back from this 7-3 team 
of last year. For all practical purposes, this was the same team that ran 
up 94 points in its last two games in 1957. 
But even with this impressive array of lettei-men and names like 
Ecuyer, Pietrosante, Schaaf, and Stickles present in the lineup the Irish 
were given a good fight by evei-y team they played. From Indiana right 
on through to Southern California, every team on the schedule wanted 
badly to beat Notre Dame, and four were able to do it. 
The triumphs of these four teams, all considered underdogs at the be­
ginning of the season, point to the increasing unpredictability of football 
games among the national powers. 

One has to look no fui-ther than to the Big Ten for an excellent exam­
ple of this point. Ohio State, the pre-season favorite, went one three-week 
stretch without winning a conference game before they upended previ­
ously unbeaten Iowa in the final conference game for both teams. 
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE 

Football today is as much a psychological battle as physical. Psycho­logical preparation for Saturday's contest is one of the main factors in the outcome. This principle especially affects Notre Dame teams. 
For years every team on Notre Dame's schedule has been able to put forth the little extra effort that comes from their keen psychological pre­paration. This year was no exception. Only in these years football teams are more even in ability than they were in former years; there are more top quality teams now. 
Against a team of inferior pei'sonnel, the advantage of the favored team can be counteracted completely by the psychological and emotional forces present in the game itself. In this respect, not only the preparation of the team and the players before the game, but also the many little things that happen duiing the game bear portentously on the game's out­come. An injuiy to one of the leaders can have more impact on a team during a game than the ten-pound weight advantage they enjoy over their opponents. 
THAT LIHLE EXTRA 

This year the Irish faced ten teams, each of which had been excellently prepared psychologically and emotionally for the game against Notre Dame. They all played a little better than they did against most of the other teams on their schedules, and this extra desire enabled four teams to beat Notre Dame and six others to battle the Irish for the full 60 minutes. 
Since Notre Dame plays ten rough opponents each fall, any more than a minimum number of mental mistakes or even a few of these psychologi­cal and emotional "breaks" can bring about an Irish defeat. 
Because of the improved caliber of football teams in general and be­cause of the psychological peak to which any team can bring itself on a given Saturday, it looks as though undefeated and untied seasons for ma­jor football teams are going to become increasingly rare. If any major team is going to go undefeated in a subsequent year, it will need an ex­ceptional pei-foi-mance each Saturday. For any team to accomplish this is quite a feat.—T.T. 
December 5, 1958 
KCDLANSWBi 
I'UCOC VOU KtCL. 1
C A 11 1 A R K 
 ENOUGMTO 
I KRAOC TWIS-S* 1
A L L E N M E 0

c I w s TWO LEGS INC. 
S 1 E N A S L 0 E E V A 1 L E 

• N 1 M A S T
D E Lw!!mlMl 

E V E R A M E N Specializing in P 1 R A^ T E M A S T E R U R E F R E S H MM E ivy STYLES 
Np 
G A R E A R S •P 1 P

sp SLAX — SWEATERS 
A P R E I C A N 0 P P 0 S E C 0 0 L E R
Ps • 1 

SPORT SHIRTS and JACKETS 0 0 L 1 E A R L E N E
c 
•
T R 0 P S S T A R T

s s (Sv ^ 1-1 1^ -Ic 118 So. Michigan Street 
1 
.
toS DW /I 3S h K 
r 

GET THE JUMP 
ON VACATION FUN 
...GO GREYHOUND'! 
Lowest fares of all public transportation! 

Frequent departures! Quidc-Compare these low. est time to many cities! low iores! 
Cincinnati Ohio $ 7.75* Air>conditioned comfort; Detroit, Mich. 6.00 picture-¥rindow sightseeing; Harrisburg, Pa. 17.65 
Houston. Tex. 26.50 
fully equipped restroom; 

Miami, Fla. 32.90 
on all Scenicruiser Service® 
*one-way fare. plus tax 
schedules! 

IT'S SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US I 
Brainstorm! No matter how much 
baggage you're taking home-
Greyhound can take it all I 
Notre Dame - Duke 

(Continued from page 14) forced Pietrosante to mn, and he was stopped on the ND 15. Duke was off­side on the play, and the Irish got an­other chance. This time Pietrosante's boot carried out to the Duke 39-yard line. 
With two minutes left and the ball on the Irish 29-yard marker, Coach Bren­nan treated the fans to some more wide-open football when he gave the go ahead sign to Williams on a foui'th and two situation. The ND quarterback came through with a two-yard sneak for the first down. Then three plays later Wil­liams tried a pass to Mack that just slipped off Mack's finger tips. 
On fourth down and 17, Pietrosante punted to the Duke 33. Jim Just inter­cepted a long desperation pass on. his 15 and returned the ball to the 50 as the game ended. 
The Irish offense was in its best form of the season as they gained 266 yards rushing and 70 passing. 
On defense the Green also played a top game. In the second half the Duke ball club could gain only 42 total yards, 28 rushing and 14 passing, and never seriously threatened after their only score in the first quarter. 
The bright spots in the Irish offense wei-e a pair of sophomore halfbacks, Mack, and Scarpitto. Mack gained 106 yards in 17 carries and had one touch­down run of 71 yards called back. Scar­pitto picked up 77 yards in 12 carries and had two long runs called back. 
Williams, at quai-terback, called an outstanding game and was responsible for 117 yards, 70 passing and 47 rush­ing. He was presented with the game ball after the contest by his teammates. 
Brennan used his leading ground gainer, Pietrosante, as a decoy to open up the defense with excellent results. 
Defensively, Jim Schaaf, senior guard, played a fine game and was the bulwark of line that held the Blue Devils to 28 rushing yards in the second half. 
MAKE FAY'S JEWELERS YOUR 
HEADQUARTERS FOR GIFTS 
FOR A U OCCASIONS 
See our magnificent selection 
of Transistor Radios. Choose 
from such famous names as: 


PHILCO 
Prices from 

MOTOROLA 

BULOVA $19.95 
111 so . MICHIGAN ST. 


GBEYHOUND TERMINAL. MAIN & MONROE STS. AT 7-6541 
Football Review 

SCORES AGAIN 
<LiMA-/ 

RESTAURAN T in Appreciation for tiie Patronage of Notre Dame Men 
Eddie will chop off your bill 
1345 E. Ironwood 
CE 2-5861 
10*
For Reservations 

upon presentation of your Student I.D. 
SPECIAL RATES FOR 
Parfies . . . Banquets . . . 
Special functions . . . 
XOWl 

A MAN'S SHAMPOO... 
in Shower-Safe Plastic! 
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it cleans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair more manageable, better-looking .. . with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps... so much easier to use than shampoos in glass Ix^es. Try it! 
225 

uce SHAMPOO by SHULTON 
^^ 
i; 
#H*< 
i; 
/y^ sr*-'-' 
4 

v/' I 
NOTRE DAME BAND PRECEDES PLAY WITH NATIONAL ANTHEM 
.'< 
FOOTBALL MANAGERS ANXIOUS AT SIDEUNE 

DRUMMERS HELP IRISH CHEERLEADER 
THE IRISH GUARD 
Football Review 

Noire Dame Miniatures for Your SweeHiew i 
CHRISTHAAS 1958 
Miniature Notre Dome rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to shore the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures con be especially contoured to fit as on ensemble. These plain and contoured bonds ore illustrated above. 
PRICE LIST — NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS ~ 1958-59 
All rings ore in durable 10K Gold 
Block Onyx $ 17.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 18.00 
All-diamond cluster $150.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and bock 18.00 
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted bock" 18.00 
synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 83.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and bock 18.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dork blue 19.00 WEDDING BANDS Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular $ 8.00 No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour 9.00 Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular 11.00 No. 2, faceted top and bock 19.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. 
Tax —- Add 10"A Federal Tax to the above prices. 
Ring Size For Measuring Finger 
3 4 5 6 7 8 91011 
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
December 5, 1958 4S 
Anyone who likes people—and selling—would like my Job" 
When Robert C. Schropp was a senior at the University of Omaha, he had definite ideas about his future. 
"I wanted a job dealing with people —in sales or the personnel field," says Bob. "When the Bell interviewer ex­plained how much emphasis the tele­phone companies put on sales and customer contacts, I knew immediately diat was for me." 
Bob graduated with an A.B. degree in Business in 1954, and went immedi­ately with Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, in Omaha. Today, he is a sales supervisor with seven men report­ing to him. His group is responsible for recommending and selling com­munications facilities like PBX switch­boards, "hands free" speakerphones and "push button" telephone systems for all kinds of businesses. 
"This is selling at its best," says Bob. "Customers respect the telephone com­pany and the advice and service we can oflFer them. So they welcome our visits. And I'm getting valuable experience in business operations and in supervision that should help me move ahead. 
"Anyone who likes people—and sell­ing—would like my job." 
* * * 

Why not find out about career oppor­tunities for you in the Bell Telephone Companies? Talk with the Bell inter­viewer when he visits your campus. And, meanwhile, read die Bell Tele­phone booklet on file in your Place­ment Office. 
Bob Schropp holds frequent training sessions (left) to polish sales techniques. At right, he points out some advantages of a key telephone to a customer while on a field coaching visit with one of his salesmea 
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
Footbdll Review 

"Send the Volley Cheer on High!" for the 
1958 FIGHTING IRISH 
Congratulations on a Fine Season! Class of 1960 
BADIN DILLON HOWARD PANGBORN 
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE 
All Outside Rooms Completely Air-CondHioned Indiana's Newest and Finest 
92 Rooms • 92 Bafhs 
•
 TERRACE DINING ROOM • CIRCULATING ICE WATB 

•
 PRIVATE FUNaiON ROOMS • RADIO IN EVBY ROOM 

•
 BEAUTIFUL PATIO • GOLF PRIVILEGES •* LARGE PARIONG AREA 


JPeucious ^ooa JDeliqldful aJrimcs 
Excellent fadlities for Bcmquels, Dinnen, Limdieons, Meetings and Receptions 
Prompt Attemtion WiU Be Give* Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public SaU of Rooms for Home Footbatt Week Ends. 
Owned and Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME ARMAND E. LYSAK, 
December 5, 1958 
great artists,.* 
great jazz,., 
great sound,,* 
on 
CONTEMPORARY 
the vital young Jazz pianist in his third great CR album. "He plays with driving abandon!"—Metronome Yearbook. Red Mitchell, bass and Chuck Thompson, drums—C3523 
the naUon^s # 1 drummer. Shelly Hanne; with Andre nevin, piano and Leroy Vin­negar, bass; In a wonderful follow-up hit to their best-seUing "Uy Fair Lady"! "...Just about the last word In modem romantic Jazz piano playing." Saturday Review—C3533 

a great catalogue! 
their first recording, "and everything cooked!" Coimce on bass; Jack Sheldon, trumpet; Harold Land, tenor sax; Carl Perldns, piano; and Frank Butler, drums In Idng-size Jazz performances—C3S26 
spontaneous combustion! The West Coast's great alto star meets the East Coast's great Rhythm Section (Faul Chambers, bass; Red Garland, piano; Phllly Joe Jones, drums) In an unlnlilb> Ited blowing session—C3S32 
the modern tenor "colossus" with the nation's poll-winners: Shelly Manne on drums; Ray Brown, bass—in, to quote the New Yorker, "a fascinating new tour de force from the Coast"—C3530 
THE POLL WINNERS: BARNEY KESSEL WITH SHELLY MANNE AND RAY BROWN CONTEMPORARY C3535 
Barney Ke'ssel. guitar; Shelly Mann^ drums and Ray Brown, bass—1956 and 1957 top stars in the 3 major polls: Down Beat, Metronome, and Playboy! Billboard says: "consistently fine performance tabs this package a must...one of the best small group works In many a moon"— C3535 
eoAih 
ir hi-fi long-playing album $U,98 
at dealers 
and distributoTB 
everywhere, 
ormrite 
CONTEMPORARY RECORDS 8481 mdrose placev los angries 46^ califiomlB 
FootbaU Review 

The Huddle 
^ 
-4: 
Best Wishes to 1958 i Notre Dame Football Squad 
•*( -• , • STOP at the HUDDLE . • , 
for that little snack between classes 
Congratulations to ,.. 
The 1958 

FIGHTING IRISH 
N 
for a great season 
A team to be proud of . . 
1^­
Senior Class of 1959 
5t% 
L 
m December 5, 195S 49 
-•.*3^":\'>JS4>?|Si 
at NOTRE DAME 
the 

HolyCrossFathers 
publish 
Cover design by Charles Kerins 

THE CATHOUC BOY 
Hie BEST all-round nidgazine any boy could wdnt! 
THE GATHOUG BOY Notie Dame, Tndiana Hease Mod die Catholic Boy  nnD  1 year —$3.00 2 years— 5.00 3 years— 7.00  Tliree or _ more l-yr. subscripdons $2.50 each  AQ ^^3^^ Chock-full of ^ O SPORTS. ADVEN­TURE. COMICS. STORIES.  
To:_ ­ Name  HOBBIES and CATHOLIC  
Street and Nmnber  INSPIRATION.  

City Zone State O Send Gift Card to read from /
Only *3^00 d y^dfi 
Your Name 

Published monthly except 
Your Address 

during July and August 
Football Review 

Prom-perfect... 
or for 
any date 

It's easy to see why Arrow White Shirts are the most popular on campus. Authentic in every style detail, they're the best-fitting shirts in circulation today. 
Our exclusive Mitoga®-tailoring makes them that way from collar to cuff to waist. "Sanforized" fab­rics keep their fit and the wildest bop won't pop their anchored but­tons. $4.00 up. 
Cluett, Peabody » Co., Inc. 
first in fashion 
In step with style: 

Arrow White Shirts 
We've been busy as a dixieland drummer ever since the new Arrow White Shirts came in. 
These are dress-up shirts as you like them. Arrow-styled in oxford or broadcloth, in drip-dry cotton or Dacron* and cotton . . . with the smartest new collar styles and French or regular cuffs. See them soon. 
*I>u Pimt polyester fibet 
Ut**-" 

GILBERT'S 
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend 
fejofefe^nio 
CliSB*" 







