


2 The Kickoff 
'84 Overview: The Blue and Gold Faust Plan 
By John Heisler 

50 The Bowl 
Aloha Bowl: Sweet Dreams Suffer 
By Chuck Freeby 

54 The Trivia 
Notes on Notre Dame: Irish Items: ·Football '84 
By John Heisler 

57 The Memories 
Reflections: Thanks for the Memories 
By Larry Williams 

61 The New Year 
'85 Preview: It Won't Happen Again 
By John Heisler 

64 The Stats 
Vol. 5, No. 1, April], 1985 

The Season 
6 Purdue: A Dud for a Dome Debut ....................... .By John Heisler 10 Michigan State: A Comeback to Remember................. .By Eddie White 14 Colorado: A Matter of Priorities ......................... .By Jolm Heisler 18 Missouri: No More Deja Vu ............................. .By John Heisler 22 Miami: Drowning by Hurricane.......................... .By John Heisler 26 Air Force: Those Rainy-Day Feelings ....................... .By Jim Daves 30 South Carolina: Losing the Handle-Again ............... .By Karen Croake 34 LSU: Reprieve in Death Valley .......... ~ .............. .By Karen Croake 38 Navy: Bouncing ·off the Decks ............................. .By Laura Lee 42 Penn State: Just What the Doctor Ordered. ; ................ .By Eddie White 46 USC: An Old-Fashioned MQd Song .................... .By Larry Williams 

The Credits 
Irish Eye is a copyright production of Sports Publications,. Box 1, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Editor: John E. Heisler; Editorial Staff: Karen Croake, Jim Daves, Laura Lee, Eddie White, Larry Williams; Photography by Michael Bennett, Ron Berard; Mike Collins, Brian Davis, John Dlugolecki, Cheryl Ertelt, Nick Griffin, Neal Kemp, Jim Klocke, Rev. F. Thomas Lallak, Gary Mills, Steven Navratil, Joe Raymond; Cover Design: Mossberg and Company; Cover Artwork: Tim Mac­Donald; Printing: Mossberg and Company, Ave Maria Press. ©Sports Publica­tions, University of Notre Dame, 1985. All rights reserved.-Jo/zn Heisler, Editor 

The Basketball Review 
Volume 2 of Irish Eye in '85 will be a review of the 1984-85 Notre Dame basketball season. Published approximately May 1, this first-tim~ publication will include a game-by-game summary with statistics plus photos galore. It's an ali-in-one record of the.'84-'85 campaign. For your copy, send a check for $4.25 (includes first-class postage) to Sports Publications, Sports Information Department, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (make checks payable to Sports Publications). 
:J 
! 
J 

Faust's Blue and Gold Plan 
J
~84 Overview 
1 
I 
By JOHN HEISLER 
I love it wizen a plan comes together. 
-Hannibal Smith in "The A-Team" 
True story. 
Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust 
ambled into an office on the second floor 
of the Athletic and Convocation Center last 
summer. 
He inserted a penny into the table-top 
bubble-gum machine, and two pieces of 
gum clattered into the slot. 
One piece of gum was blue. The other 
was yellow. 
True story. 
It could only happen to Gerry Faust. 
* * * * * 
No matter what the rest of life holds for 
him, Notre Dame will be a part of Gerry 
Faust. He'll go to his grave an Irish fan. 
The gumballs that roll into his hand will 
continue to roll blue and gold. 
But will the Faust plan ever come 
together? Can all the building blocks 
somehow fit together well enough so that 
he can roll along with 9-2 and 10-1 seasons 
without all the hubbub that has accompa­
nied his first four seasons? Can he win 
enough games to make everyone happy? 
Whatever the answers to those questions, 
count on reading about Faust's attempts to 
answer them this fall in your local 
newspaper. No football coach in America 
has had his work more closely inspected 
and chronicled than Faust has the last four 
seasons. 
Last fall, during a 29-day period that 
included Notre Dame's three straight home 
losses, major feature pieces on Faust and 
his Irish were carried by the ffilslzington 
Post, USA Today, Newsday, Los Angeles 
Times, New lOrk Times, Chicago Sun­
Times (a two-part series), Chicago Tribune, 
Sports Illustrated and the Associated Press. 
Faust welcomed the national media into 
his office on a weekly basis. Most were 
amazed at his accessibility, his candor-and 
his rose-colored glasses that shaded his 
ever-optimistic view. And all that about 
year number four. 
The scene was almost comical at times. 
As the parade of writers came to pay what 
some probably felt were their last respects, 
Gerry answered all their queries with the 
usual grin and pat on the back. Each writer ·who journeyed to South Bend seemed to 
think that he might be the chosen one to whom Faust would blurt, "That's it. I've 



had enough. I'm quitting after Saturday's 
game." They should have known better. 
"Sure, there were people pushing me out the door back when we were 3-4," Faust says now. "I know that. It's just human nature. Some of my best friends left the stadium after a couple of those games wondering what was going on and when it was going to end. 
"I understand that. You have to expect people to be behind you when you win and against you when you lose. It's always going to be that way. I try to tell the players the same thing so they understand why they get criticism one week and pats on the back the next." 
Now comes year number five on The Contract. Football and basketball coaches at Notre Dame receive five-year contracts initially, then they work on a handshake basis year by year after that. It was that way with Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine, it is that way with Digger Phelps and it will be that way with Gerry Faust. There will be no media-splashed contract renewal for Faust even if the Irish win the national championship in 1985. 
Count on those same national media to keep college football watchers posted concerning Faust's '85 travails. But don't expect an extra dose of pressure in the Irish camp this fall, even though the public perception may be otherwise. 
"I don't think we can do that," says Irish athletic director Gene Corrigan. "Obvi­ously, everything that's written will bring up the contract situation. The players won't 
be oblivious to ·that. 
"But to a great extent, you have to rely on the players to motivate themselves." 
Allen Pinkett agrees: 
"Now that you mention it, I had forgotten this was the last year on Coach Faust's contract. Really, that hadn't entered our minds. The things we've thought about are the potential we have and how good a team this can be." 
Count on the media to note those items, too. Whatever happens as far as wins and losses, count on Faust to maintain his optimistic tenor through it all. It's all in the gumballs. 
* * * * * 
Slipped under the glass at the edge of Gerry Faust's desk is a yellowing chart. On it are the professional coaching records of Chuck Noll and Tom Landry during their first three seasons in the National Football League. Noll was 1-13 in '69 and 12-30 overall in three seasons; Landry was 0-11-1 in '60 and 9-28-3 overall. The numbers are there as a reminder that even the most hallowed names i,n the coaching profession have been far from perfect. 
Over the last two seasons, Faust's record is 14-10. Penn State's Joe Paterno is 14-9­
1. Michigan's Bo Schembechler is 15-9. 
"I don't hear anyone suggesting that either of those two guys arc over the hill," Faust says. "The difference is that those two have enough of a proven track record that· seasons like 6-5 or 6-6 like they had last year aren't viewed as catastrophes. If I had a couple of 10-1 or 9-2 seasons behind me, it would be the same way. We just 

haven't done that yet." 
Notre Dame shoved gags in the mouths of Faust's detractors by winning their last four regular-season games in impressive style. In the process, the Irish laid waste to three ranked teams-LSU, Penn State and USC-while holding the Nittany Lions and Trojans to a touchdown each. 
Ubslzington Post columnist Tony _ Kornheiser called to congratulate Faust after the USC finale. "I was one of those guys who called him and listened to him say back when his team was 3-4 that he could still finish 7-4. I'm not sure I believed him any more than anyone else did at that point," Kornheiser said, "but he deserves a lot of credit for pulling it off." 
Even more, Notre Dame's head coach treasured the post-season words of one of his predecessors. A close friend of Gerry's, Ara Parseghian tactfully had pointed out some of the team's failings during Notre Dame's October struggles. But once the late-season turnaround was accomplished, Ara was quick to put his own congratula­tions in writing to Faust. They couldn't have been more appreciated. 
No one-unless they were Dallas natives Tim Brown, Mike Viracola and Robbie Finnegan-would have like to have beaten SMU in the Aloha Bowl more than Faust. But Faust doesn't intend to dwell on the final-minute comeback that went awry or the seven-point loss to the Southwest Conference co-champions. 
It's all part of the past now. His 25-20-1 record is fact, but nothing more. 



Kf}~::ii'~gy~:·.::·;:-.:..'''.:··· . "To me, the past is gone," he says. 
"There's just today and tomorrow. In t::·,-,· athletics, people forget what you did 
t:

t . . ... yesterday. That's the way I look at it.
•···:;:1\;~i~ri!ll~C ··.•.· .•. ·~ 
"Don't get me wrong. I try to learn from yesterday-try to become a better coach and a better person because of it. But the 
-~~Po: 
past is gone. All we can do now is prepare 
for today and get excited about tomorrow." 
Gerry Faust will get excited about the prospect of his plan coming together in '85. Count on it. 
* * * * * 
The trail goes on and on. From Chicago to Virginia to New Jersey to Ohio to St. Louis. And on and on. The Gerry Faust recruiting trail is a zip-code-a-minute pace. He's in his element as he fills the weeks between the bowl games and spring practice. It's his recruiting, as much as 

· anything, that regenerates Faust and gives 
. : ·; ~ him the gumption to chase that elusive ~ brass-make that gold-ring again. ~ Faust will bring optimism to the '85 · til approach·. But that's no surprise. His g compatriots are inclined to agree: 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ''The schedule is inte~sting;' muses Corrigan. "You can make it sound awesome by talking about eight bowl teams plus Penn State. But there are plenty of games we can win and should win. "Pluses? The staff definitely is a strength. Last year we had three new defensive coaches-but I thought at the end of the season we were a fairly decent defensive team, especially after getting some of the injured people back. 
j 
"Offensively, the staff will be the same for the third straight year. That's a tremendous plus, knowing what you can do with the football. 
"I have to think some of Gerry's assistants have been offered some other good jobs. But they stayed. That tells me somebody thinks we're gonna be pretty good. Without a rash of injuries, we could be. Just take it one game at a time, one week at a time." 
Pinkett figures this for the payoff year: 
"I think we finally turned the program around in the middle of last season with the LSU game. As seniors, we sincerely
;·. . 

~~:· believe that this upcoming year, though it's our last, should be our best. "It represents a big challenge to us because we believe we can win the national championship. This team is a very mature team mentally. And you have a little different feeling when you're a senior." Faust knows where his fans and critics stand: "One year at Moeller," he told Philadel­phia Inquirer columnist Bill Lyon during a winter recruiting stop, "we had a great team. Went undefeated, beat everybody by 30-40 points. I'm walking out after one ~.game and I hear a fan say, 'I'm not coming ~ to any more of their games. Too boring.' , ~ Well, the next year we had a real young til team but they were good and they went 
... :..:.. 

·.: g undefeated and won the state championship . 
But they won every game ciose, 21-19, 14­10, that sort of thing. So one night I'm walking out after we've won one of those 21-19 games and I hear a fan saying, 'Boy, he's lost his touch.' The moral is that opinions shift like the wind.'' 
Faust's opinion is that he would be happy with the undefeated part-or at least something closer to that than 7-5. So would Corrigan. So would Pinkett and his teammates. 
One of those teammates, senior captain and linebacker Tony Furjanic, has under­scored the commitment. Midway up his forearm is an inch-wide stripe of skin personally kept shaven. Furjanic calls it a Wolverine stripe. Jfis teammates followed suit. 
It's a subtle reminder that the Irish have an early September date in Ann Arbor against Michigan to open the '85 cam­paign. 
"I used to think Coach Faust was crazy when we used to come back in January and he'd say the season starts now," says Pinkett. 
"But now we realize it's a year-long process. I know what he was talking about. On some of those days when you don't feel like coming over to work out, you see that stripe on your arm. 
"That's motivation." 
And that's how the plan begins to come together. 


Purdue 

A Dud for a Dome Debut 
By JOHN HEISLER 
It was a flat-out shocker. 
Notre Dame was the team ranked seventh in the country by the Associated Press. Gameplan even listed the Irish first in its preseason magazine. Purdue was the team relegated to the second division by Big Ten preseason predictors. 
Notre Dame was the team with 17 starters back from the team that had decimated these same Boilermakers 52-6 in West Lafayette to open the '83 campaign. Purdue was the team that could only pray it was better than its '83 edition that had to win two of its last four games to finish 3-7­
1. 
Notre Dame was the team that was used to putting on stunning opening-day performances-as it had in Gerry Faust's first three seasons. Purdue was the team that hadn't won a season opener in the Leon Burtnett era. 
Notre Dame was the team with the glossy sophomore quarterback who was expected to lead the Irish to the promised land. Purdue was the team that didn't even announce its starting quarterback until game day. There was that much mystery surrounding the job following the gradua­tion of Scott Campbell. 
Notre Dame was the team hoping to begin the march toward a major bowl bid. 
Purdue was the team hoping to prevent being bowled over. 
Was it ever a shocker. 

The differences, as in most any football game, were execution and intensity. 
Notre Dame was the team that turned the ball over on its first and last offensive opportunities-plus three times in between. Purdue was the team that produced 13 points after a Tim Brown fumble on the opening kickoff, a Steve Beuerlein interception late in the first half and a Mark Brooks lost fumble early in the third period. The Boilermakers did not fumble at all and had only one pass pilfered. 
Notre Dame was the team that cruised to 



Irish safety Joe Johnson draws a bead on Boilermaker fullback Bruce King. Johnson finished with 11 tackles, while King rushed 
nine times for 39 yards as the Boilers ran up 124 ground yards to only 97 for Notre Dame. 
a quick 14-3 lead on nearly identical 10­play drives of 77 and 70 yards on its second and third possessions. But after the Irish seemingly had taken command of the contest, Purdue controlled the football for 
29: 13 over the last three periods compared to 15:47 for the Irish. "The rest our defense got in the second quarter was the key," said Burtnett. 
Notre Dame was the team that threw the ball effectively early, with Beuerlein completing his first six passes for 115 yards while not throwing an incompletion until the final Irish play of the third period. Purdue was the team with the unheralded signalcaller, Jim Everett, who stole the thunder by completing 20 of his 28 passes for 255 yards and two touchdowns. In only his third career start, he peppered the 
~ Notre Dame secondary at will-often throwing on the run. "Looking back at it, we might have been a little bit too conserv­ative in the first quarter," Burtnett said. "We opened things up in the second quarter by throwing more on first down out of our single-back formation, and that was very good to us the rest of the day." 
Notre Dame was the team that, after the first period surge, seemed to do all the wrong things at all the wrong times. The Irish managed only 35 rushing yards after halftime. Purdue was the team that made the most of all five Irish turnovers and all six penalties. 
Purdue was the team that eventually would entertain Rose Bowl hopes, finish 7­4 and advance to the Peach Bowl. But few of even the most optimistic Boilermaker fans were thinking of those sorts of things as dedication ceremonies for the Indianapo­lis Hoosier Dome played out. Purdue was hoping to survive the opener. Notre Dame was supposed to win this one handily, by nearly all accounts. 
The disappointing aspect for Faust was that the killer instinct that had been missing in the makeup of his previous Notre Dame teams seemed no more apparent this time. On the verge of a rout after one quarter, the Irish gave Purdue its fair share of opportunities-and the Boilers seized them by the throat. Notre Dame played as if the victory eventually would fall into its hands-and Purdue wasn't about to let that happen. 
After the game, the Irish remained convinced they still had the better team. As in the past, however, they didn't manage to prove it during the three hours that counted on Saturday afternoon. 
"It's apparent to everybody that we made too many mistakes," noted tailback Allen Pinkett. "We beat ourselves." 
''Any loss is tough, but there's no doubt in my mind that we are the better team," added Beuerlein. 
But rosters and depth charts and potential don't win football games. 
After Brown's opening-kickoff fumble and a quick Purdue field goal-the first of three by Mike Rendina, who also kicked two against the Irish while playing for Florida State in '81-Notre Dame handled its next two drives like a seventh-rated team should. 
Beuerlein nicely mixed three completions to Joe Howard, Milt Jackson and Howard again between six Pinkett runs-the last of which gave Notre Dame the lead after. Pinkett dragged two defenders with him into the end zone on the 11-yard carry. 


Sophomore Alvin Miller heads upfield after his only reception of the '84 campaign. Miller gained 15 yards on this grab-then tore knee ligaments on the first play from scrimmage the following week against Michigan State and sat out the remainder of the 
season. 
It was an instant replay the next time down the field. At 14-3 with more than a minute left in the opening period, the Irish were as convincing as expected. Their own foul-ups beat them the rest of the way. 
With Everett effectively at the controls, Purdue motored to the Irish 17. A third­down Everett pass went through the hands of Steve Griffin, so Rendina kicked a 34­yard field goal. But the Irish had too many men on the field ("We had a freshman who didn't come out when we went from field defense to goal-line defense," said Faust), the field goal was wiped off the board and two plays later Everett threw to Jeff Price for six yards and six points. 
The Irish had another shot at putting points on the board on their next possession until Mark Brooks fumbled on third and three from the Purdue 33-forcing them to punt. Beuerlein threw an interception on first down from midfield ending that Notre Dame possession after a single play-and Purdue then drove to the Irish two where Rendina booted his second field goal as time ran out in the half. 

Mistakes dogged the Irish as the second half transpired. Pat Ballage returned an intercepted toss to the Purdue 27-only to have Brooks fumble the ball away at the three. That gave the Boilers a chance to march 92 yards for a third Rendina three­pointer. The following Irish attempt was thwarted by an ineligible receiver penalty ("One of our wide-outs was up on the line, making our tight end ineligible," Faust said) and Purdue went to town again. This time it took the Boilers only six plays to go 88 yards for their final points, with Rick Brunner hauling in a 36-yard sideline bomb for the big gainer. 
. Again, the Irish moved to scoring position-but Beuerlein threw an intercep­tion from the Boiler 29. Notre Dame came out throwing the next time, with Beuerlein completing four of six passes during the march for 72 yards. Though Pinkett was hobbled by aftereffects of a springtime ankle sprain-the severity of which wouldn't be revealed until November-he dashed down the left sideline for the points that left the Irish behind only 23-21. 
Notre Dame's defense held strong on Purdue's key possession-with Mike Gann sacking Everett for the only time all day to produce an 18-yard loss on third down. After the Boiler punt, Notre Dame took over at its own 44 with 2:32 remaining­needing to gain only 20 yards or so to get John Carney within field goal range. 
On first down, the Irish phorie system from the press box malfunctioned, leaving Beuerlein to call his own play. He opted for a screen play that appeared to be a big­yardage possibility until Donnie Baldwin got back up off the ground. 
"I hadn't read screen pass at all," said Baldwin. "I was just pass rushing. The offensive tackle cut me, but as I freed my legs from him and stood up, there was the ball." 
"The play was a double screen," Beuerlein noted. "I can fake one way and go the other way with the pass. The interception was all my fault. The Purdue player was cut down by a block as I went back, but he stood up just as I relea'sed the 
ball." 
8 


Allen Pinkett bulls his way to the end zone for Notre Dame's first touchdown of the afternoon and the first of his two in the Hoosier Dome. Pinkett's 11-yard burst gives the Irish a 7-3 lead, as linebacker Jason Houston arrives too late to help. 
·.Purdue . 3 10 7-23 ·Notre Dame 14 0 0 ·7-21 Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND PU PU-:-Mike Rendina 31 FG . . ·· 13:16 0 3 

; ..... Drive: Minus-one yard In three plays in · ·.· 1:38 following Corey Cooper recovery··.. of' Notre Dame fumble on ·opening 
kickoff. ND~AIIen Pinkett II run 7:55 · 7 · · (John Carney kick) . . · · · 
Drive: 77 yards in 10 plays in 5:21 . . . following Purdue kickoff;. Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 
· 21 yards. . NO-Mark Brooks 3 run 1:39 14 (John Carney kick) . . . · ·Drive: -70 yards in 10 plays In 4:12 · 
· · ·.·following Purdue punt; Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 20 · yards. · · · 
Second Quarter PU~JeffPrice6passfromJimEverett 10:11 14 ·ro 
· (Mike Rendina kick)· · . . . . Drive: 86 yards in· 14 plays in 6:28 following Notre Dame kickoff; Big :Play: Jim Everett pass to Steve Griffin 
for 23 yards. · PU-Mike Rendina IS FG .· . ·. . 0:00 14 13 
·'Drive:· 62 yards in 13 plays in 5:59 . following Kevin Sumlin. interception of Notre Dame pass. · 

-~~~ik~r:::ndi.na.20FG · . 3:47 14 .16 ·Drive: 92 yards in 13 plays in 5:54 ·.'following Tommy Myers recovery of · . Notre Dame fumble; Big ·Play: . Jim · Everett 'pass to Marty' Scott for 29 yards. · . , . . · · · , . •. . pu.:....Jeff Price 14 pass from Jim Everett . · .. 13:57 14 · . (Mike Rendina kick) · ' · · . Drive: 88 yards in six· plays. in· 2:32 · following Notre Dame punt; Big Play: Jim Everett pass to Rick Brunner for 36 · · yards. . · . . · · ~Allen Pinkett 6 run · 4:21. 2_1 ~ 23 

(John Carney kick) . . 
Drive: 66. yards in It' plays in 4:16 
following Purdue punt; Big Play: Steve 
Beuerlein pass to Milt Jackson for 26 
. yards;· · · · A-60,672(c). 
Team Statistics 
PU 
First Downs 22 
·.Rushing-·s 
. Passing · IS. 
Penalty . · 2 
Rushing Attempts 43 
Yards Rushing 143 
.. 19

.Yards Lost Rushing 
Net Yards Rushing 124 
Net Yards Passing 255 
· Passes Attempted 28 
: Passes Completed 20 
Had Intercepted I 
Total Offensive Plays ·. 71 
Total Net Yards 379 
Average Gain Per Play 5.4 
Fumbles: Number.;... Lost . 0-0 

Penalties: Number-Yards .8-80 .Interceptions: Number-Yards 3-34 Number of Punts-Yards 4-163' 
.Average Per Punt 40.7 
Punt Returns: Number-Yards. 0-0 
Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 2-25 
: Third Down Conversions 6-14 
Individual Statistics 
Purdue 

Rushing AU. . Gain Lost Net . Rodney Carter 22 59 1' 58 Bruce King 9 39 0 39 Ray Wallace s 19 0 19 Jim Everett ; 7 26, 18 8 
Passing AU. Comp. Int. Yards 
Jim Everett 28 20. 1 255 
Pass Receiving No. ·Yards 
Steve Griffin s . 79 
Rodney Carter · s 23 
Rick Brunner 4 74 
Marty Scott 2 42 
Jeff Price 2 20 
Bruce King 2 17 
Notre Dame. 
Rushln11 .. AU. ·Gain Lost Net
8 .
Allen Pinkett 22 77 69 
Mark Brooks 33 4 29
. 8 

Chris Smith 3 2 1 I Steve Beuerlein . 4 9 11 -2 Passin!I AU. Comp. Int. Yards Steve Beuerlein 20 13 3 '233 Pass Receiving No~· Yards Joe Howard. 3 61 Mark Bavaro 3 ss Milt Jackson 2 38 Tim Brown 1 19 Chris Smith 1 18 .Alvin Miller I : 15 Allen Pinkett 1 14 Mark Brooks 1 13 ND 21 6 13 
2· 37 
121 24 97 233 20 . 13 3 
51 
330 5.8 3·2 
6-40 . 
. 1·24 . 2·77 38.5 4-17 4·71 . :4-7 
TD Long 0 7 0 17 0 s 
0 11 TD Lon11 ·2 36 m Long 
0 23 . 
0 
. 9· 0 36 0 29 2 14 
o. 13 
TD Long 2 11 
1 . 12 
0 2 
0 s . TD Lon11 0 26 TD Long · 0 26 0 24 0 26 0 19 0 18. ·o .'15 0 
. 14 0 13 

"I didn't say anything to Steve after the game," said Faust. "I'm sure he felt bad about it. He didn't want to throw that last interception any more than we wanted him to throw it." 
There was no question the Boilermakers chose to pick on a young Notre Dame secondary that included a pair of sopho­more starters. And Purdue hit the Irish with something of a new wrinkle by utilizing an ace set featuring one running back, a tight end and three wide receivers. Even Faust admitted, "Purdue did a coupl_e of things with motion on their pass offense that we didn't expect that seemed to confuse us." 
"We worked on the ace all spring and fall to get ready for Notre Dame, and they never adjusted to it all day," said Purdue offensive coordinator Jim Colletfo. "It's a great package because it stretches out the defense and makes it easier for me to read defenses," chimed in Everett, who also noted the Boilers' intention to take advantage of the short routes available to his receivers. "We felt like we could do that-get eight or nine yards whenever we could," he said. "They played at least 10 yards off us and backpedaled fast. I was surprised they gave us that much room," said Brunner, "but they didn't change, so we stayed with it." 
The Boilers also found themselves working against two youthful Irish outside linebackers in pass coverage much of the afternoon. Sophomore Robert Banks had moved into the starting lineup only a week before the game after Mike Larkin injured knee ligaments, and freshman Cedric Figaro played much of the way agai.nst Purdue after captain Mike Golic bruised a shoulder. 
But as Faust was quick to point out, the Irish were their own worst enemy: "Our problem on offense was not moving the football-we moved the ball well. We just had turnovers and penalties that kept us out of the end zone." 
Burtnett heralded the Boiler victory as "the biggest I've ever been associated with at Purdue." That may not have been saying much at the time, considering his Purdue teams won only six games his first two seasons combined. But that hardly lessened the pain in the Notre Dame locker room. 
This was supposed to be a day of big expectations for the Irish players-as well as the 6,000 Notre Dame students who filled the 145-bus convoy to the Hoosier Dome. 
"It's very frustrating· with the talent we have," noted Pinkett. Little did the Irish know what the month of October would hold in that department. 


Michigan State 
A Comeback to Remember 

By EDDIE WIDTE 
You might say Mike Haywood was head 
over heels about Notre Dame's dramatic 
come-from-behind victory over Michigan 
State. 
Literally. 
Haywood made the play of the day in 
what arguably might have been the most 
important game of the year for the Irish. 
With 9:31 to play, and the Irish trailing 20­

17, Haywood blocked a Ralf Mojsiejenko . punt while doing a midair flip on the rush. 
Haywood came from the right side and 
dove over Spartan upback Dean Altobelli. 
He, in turn, flipped the junior defensive 
back. Somehow (Haywood never really saw 
it), while upside down, he blocked the punt 
and Pat Ballage recovered to give the Irish 
a first down on the Michigan State 14-yard 
line. 

Three plays later, Allen Pinkett danced in off right tackle from five yards out and,' with John Carney's successful PAT, the Irish led (24-20) for the first time all afternoon after falling behind 17-0 and 20­10 earlier in the contest. 
"I don't know how I landed," admitted Haywood afterward as he received congratulations in a rowdy Notre Dame locker room. "I just wanted to get up and see where the ball had gone. 
"It was a big play," understated Hay­wood, "and I guess we needed something like that at that time." 
Big play it was, maybe the most important of the year for Notre Dame. Coming off a stunning season-opening upset loss to Purdue, Gerry Faust and the Irish had their backs against the wall-no 
.matter that it was only the second game of the year. 
A loss at Michigan State, with a formidable schedule ahead, could well have spelled doom for the Irish in '84. But as Haywood's play saved the day for Notre Dame, it might well have been the victory that helped save the season for the Irish. 
''Any game is important," Faust said afterward. "But, I guess you could say this one was a little extra special. I was really proud of our young men with the way they battled back from adversity. They were down 17-0 early in the game to a good football team in a real tough place to play, but they battled back and never quit." 
It was a quality that would shine through late in the '84 campaign. 
Despite some perfect fall Michigan weather (60 degrees, partly sunny), the first half was one Faust and Co. won't want 


Quarterback Steve Beuerlein threads the needle on a fourth-period touchdown pass to flanker Milt Jackson that brought the Irish 
within three at 20-17. Moments later, Mike Haywood's block of a Spartan punt set the stage for the Irish victory. 
to watch on the '84 highlight film. Following Terry Lewis' 16-yard return of great Michigan State-Notre Dame games of 
Irish fans got a preview of things to come a Steve Beuerlein interception, Mojsiejenko the past," added linebacker Mike Golic. when on the game's first play, standout booted a 24-yard field goal with :33 "He told us we had the chance to make this receiver Alvin Miller suffered knee remaining to give the Spartans a comfort­game something special." ligament damage after a 13-yard gain and able 17-0 advantage after one quarter. Beuerlein saw something different in the was lost for the season. But the worst was Just when all seemed lost, the Irish locker room at halftime. "It wasn't really 
yet to come. started to battle back. Notre Dame took the what was said. We were just reminded 
While the Spartan defense put the clamps ensuing kickoff and behind the running of about the job we had to do. We were so · on the Irish offense, coach George Perles' Alonzo Jefferson, who gained 24 yards psyched up before the game-more so than Michigan State squad erupted for 17 points during the 56-yard drive,. got on the I'd ever seen before around here. And this in the final 3:41 of the first quarter to stun scoreboard as John Carney nailed a 42-yard energy and intensity carried over. It was Notre Dame and its legion of fans who field goal with 9:36 remaining in the first just a matter of us cutting down on our made the trek to East Lansing. half. mistakes. 
Following a Notre Dame punt, Carl "The field goal was very important," "Unfortunately, we got into situations Butler, who would enjoy a.banner after­Pinkett said. "We were struggling at the where we had to pass the ball a lot on third noon (142 yards rushing, two touchdowns) time and we'd take anything we could get. down. But in the second half, we came out against the Irish, tallied the game's first Three points were very big at the moment," and played our game. We played Notre points on a bruising 15-yard run that saw added the star Irish tailback who gained Dame football," added Beuerlein, who at him run over three Notre Dame defenders. only 19 yards on 10 carries in the first the half had completed only three of nine That touchdown dash capped an impressive half. for 27 yards. eight-play, 72-yard drive that was kept alive Both teams were scoreless the rest of the "In the second half, we threw more on when Michigan State quarterback Dave period and Michigan State went into its first down and the momentum began to Yarema passed 50 yards to Mark Ingram on locker room leading 17-3 at intermission. It shift." a crucial third-and-16 play. . didn't help that' even the usually dependable Notre Dame struck first in the second 
After Mike Griffin blocked the conver­Pinkett fumbled the ball away from the half. On its second possession, Beuerlein sion try, the Spartans· turned another trick Spartan one on first down late in the found Pinkett open for a 40-yard scoring 
~ when junior defensive tackle Jim Rinella second period. connection at the 6:43 mark. The pass was recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the 23-Faust then woke up some echoes, not to one of beauty as Beuerlein, on first down, yard line with 2:45 to play. It took Butler mention some sleeping giants, with a faked to· the short side of the field, freezing only one run to take it in for the score. sturdy halftime speech. "He (Faust) said standout Spartan safety Phil Parker and Yarema found Ingram in the end zone for we could turn this game around and make allowing Pinkett ·to spring deep into the the successful two-point conversion and the it one Notre Dame fans could long secondary. Spartans led 14-0. remember," said Pinkett. "We felt we knew how to win," said But Michigan State still wasn't finisheq. "Coach Faust reminded us about the Pinkett. "It was a matter of eliminating 
11 
mistakes. We had noticed.that Parker's eyes 
were his weak point. When Steve pumped, 
he went for it and I broke down the 
middle." Carney's successful PAT com­
pleted the six-play, 62-yard drive and the 
Irish had pulled within seven points of the 
all-of-a-sudden conservative Spartans. 
Yarema, who completed six of 11 passes in the first half for 89 yards, tried only six aerial attempts in the second half while completing only three for 60 yards. 
"We really got hurt by turnovers," said Perles, whose team almost blew a 24-0 advantage the previous week against Colorado. "I don't know about playing conservatively. I don't know what the stats show. I don't think we were conservative." 
Yarema agreed with his coach. "I don't think we were conservative. The same thing happened last week. We were moving the ball well and then had a couple of turn­overs. I really felt we should have scored more points than we did." 
Following the kickoff after Notre Dame's third-quarter touchdown, the Spartans broke their scoring drought when Mojsie­jenko kicked a 43-yard field goal with 2:25 

'6It wasn't really what was said (at ·halftime). We were just reminded about ­
the job we had to do. 
. We were.so psyched.up 
beforethe game­
more-so than· I'd ever 
seen around here. 
And this energy_ 
and intensity 

c·arried over. It was just a matter ofus cutting _ do\:Vn on otir mistakes.,, 
-Steve Beuer/ein 
remaining. The boot completed a 10-play, 
45-yard drive which was aided by the 
running of Butler (three carries for 21 
yards) and Lorenzo White (five carries for 
26 yards) and gave the home team a 20-10 
lead. 
Michigan State's three points didn't faze 
the Irish. Notre Dame took the ensuing 
kickoff and marched 70 yards on 14 plays 
in just under six minutes. Beuerlein found 
a streaking Milt Jackson on second and 
goal from eight yards out for the score at 
11 :40. The Irish sophomore quarterback was chief engineer of this drive, hitting on six of seven for 55 yards. 
"We figured they'd be in a man-to-man defense," explained Beuerlein. "It's called a 'choice' route where Milt breaks up the middle and has the choice of breaking one way or the other. Ideally, you want the receiver to run the defender one way and push it to the outside. That's what Milt did and it worked perfectly." 
Then it was time for the Irish defense to work perfectly. Butler, who had been a thorn in the side of Notre Dame all afternoon, was stopped on three straight 


· 


~ 
~ 
ea:: 
~ 
z 
z 
~ 
f;; ~ 
runs, forcing Mojsiejenko to punt and setting up Haywood's audition for the Mary Lou Retton gymnastics tour. 
"Defensively, that was one of the biggest series of downs you're going to see," said Faust. "Momentum had come to our side and our defense responded." And so did the special teams. 
"We decided early in the week that we were going to try to pressure every one of \heir punts," added Faust. "And we also wanted to put pressure on their extra points and we came up with a block in the first quarter." 
~'The first couple of punts, I was just pushed to the side," said Haywood. "I knew if I could get a little higher, I would have a good shot at one. So I asked the coaches if we could run the same play and I got close enough to block it." 
Pinkett's five-yard scoring jaunt and Carney's PAT proved to be the final points of the wild afternoon and Faust and his Irish had their first comeback win of 1984. 
Even at the dar~est moment, Faust had seen a light in the tunnel. "I honestly felt, even when we were down by 17 points, that we would win this game," he said after­wards. "I just really believe in these kids. We've had a lot of tough breaks the last couple of weeks. When we get those worked out, we're going to be a good football team-if we stay healthy." 
Staying healthy. It was something the Irish would have a very tough time doing in 1984. 
Notre Dame 0 7 14-24 
Michigan State 17 0 3 0-20 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND MS MS-Cari Butler IS run 3:41 0 6 
(Raif Mojsiejenko kick blocked) 
Drive: 72 yards in nine plays in 3:01 . following Notre Dame punt; Big Play: Dave Yarema pass to Mark Ingram for 
SO yards. 
MS-Carl Butler 23 run 2:4S 0 14 (Mark Ingram pass from Dave Yarema) Drive: 23 yards in one play in 0:04 following Jim Rinella recovery of Notre Dame fumble. 
MS-Ralf Mojsiejenko 24 FG 0:33 0 17 Drive: Eight yards in three plays in 2:06 following Terry Lewis interception of Notre Dame pass. 
Second Quarter 
NO-John Carney 42 FG 9:36 3 . 17 Drive: 56 yards in IS plays in S:S1 following Michigan State kickoff. 
Third Quarter NO-Allen Pinkett 40 pass 
from Steve Beuerlein 6:43 10 17 (John Carney kick) Drive:. 62 yards in six plays in I:S7 following Michigan State punt. 
MS-Ralf Mojsiejenko 43 FG 2:2S 10 20 Drive: 46 yards in 10. plays in 4:18 following Notre Dame kickoff • 

. Fourth Quarter NO-Milt Jackson 8 pass 
from Steve Beuerlein 11:40 17· 20 (John Carney kick) Drive: 70 yards in 14 plays in S:4S following Michigan State kickoff; Big Play: Steve Beuerlein. pass to Mark Bavaro for IS yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett S run 8:16 24 20 (John Carney kick) Drive: 14 yards in three plays In l:lS 
· following Mike Haywood block of Michigan State punt. A-76,919(c) · 
Tram Statistics 

ND MSU First Downs 18 IS Rushing 12 9 · .Passing s s Penalty · I I Rushing Attempts 49 47 ·Yards Rushing ISS 197 Yards Lost Rushing 31 33 Net Yards Rushing 127 .164 Net Yards Passing 142 149 Passes Attempted -. 21 17 Passes Completed 12 9 Had Intercepted 1 2 Total Offensive Plays 71 64 ·Total Net Yards 269 313 
· Average Gain Per Play -3.8 4.9 Fumbles: Number-Lost 3·3 . 4-2 Penalties: Number"""":Yards 3·21 6-61' Interceptions: Number-Yards 2·18 1-16 Number of Punts-Yards S-231· 6-207 Average Per Punt 46.2 34.5 Punt Returns: Number-Yards S-37 4-33 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-22 3-57 Time of Possession 30:17 29:43 Quarterback Sacks: Number~Yards 2-2S 1-3· Third-Do\\n Conversions 9-17 4-13 
Individual Statistics Notre Dame 

·Rushing Allen Pinkett  Au. 22  Gain Lost 6S s  Net 60  TD I  Long ·8  
Alonzo Jefferson  11  43  3  40  0  9  
Mark·Brooks  3  19  0  19  . 0'  7  
Chris Smith  4  13  0  . 13'  0  7  
Alvin Miller  1  13  0  13  0  13  
Steve Beuerlein  8  s  23  .  -18  0  2  
Passing Steve Beuerlein  Att. Comp. 21 12  Int. 1  Yards 142  TD 2  Long 40  
Pass Recrh'lng Mark Bavaro  No. 4  Yards· 37  TD 0  Long IS  
Allen Pinkett  3  62  1  40  
Tim Brown  3  30  0  11  
Milt Jackson  2  13  1  8  
Rushing . Carl Butler  Michigan State ·Au. Gain Lost 29 143 I  .  Net 142  TD 2  Long 23  
Alonzo White  8  29  3·  26  0  14  
Aaron Roberts  3  11  -I  10  0  7  
Keith Gates ·  2  6  0  6  0  3  
Bobby Morse Dave Yarema  I '4  2 . 0 6-28  . 2 -22  0 0  2 6  
Passing Dave Yarema  Att. Comp. 17 9  Int. 2  Yards 149  TD 0  Long .so  
. Pass Receiving Mark Ingram · · Keith Gates  No. 3 2  Yards 103 18  TD 0 0  Long so IS  
Veno Belk  1  16  0. 16  
Alonzo White .  I  7  0  7  
Carl Butler .•  I  6  0  6  
Bobby Morse: .  1  -I  0  -1  


Colorado 


A Matter of Priorities 
Sophomore tailback Alonzo Jefferson sails into the end zone, leaving Colorado strong safety John Bennett in his wake. Jefferson added a pair of touchdowns, one each in the second and third periods, to Notre Dame's 212-yard ground assault. · 
By JOHN HEISLER 

Bill McCartney did his noble best, but he 
found few believers. 

The Colorado head coach tried to explain that the emotion-drenched week that followed the loss of Buffalo tight end Ed Reinhardt hadn't been a factor in Notre Dame's 55-14 trampling of his team. 
The Colorado players and coaches dutifully made their appearance in Notre Dame Stadium to absorb their third straight defeat. Their hearts and souls-despite McCartney's disclaimer-remained with Reinhardt, who lay in a coma in a Eugene, Oregon, hospital, as a result of the head injury suffered against Oregon the previous Saturday. 
"The game today didn't have anything to do with the injury to Ed Reinhardt," said McCartney. "I just want to set the record 

~~~~7-~~~ 
·_,~.::· 
straight. We were emotionally ready. We 
didn't come in here hangdog because of 

what happened last week. You can believe 
what you want to, but that's the truth." 

His Saturday remarks didn't jive with his Tuesday conversation via telephone with the Notre Dame media: "It has had a tremendous impact on our football team. It has been a tremendous distraction in our preparation, and it continues to weigh heavily on everyone. We're hurting bad, emotionally and physically. It's really affected the players ...." At that point, McCartney could not continue. His feelings 
were ever so apparent. 

"You can't let anything.like that affect you," said Irish defensive tackle Mike Gann. "We had a lot of sympathy for them. I played against his older brother (in high school). There was so much sympathy, but you can't let that get into the game." 
There was no escaping the reality of it all. A large "We Love You, Ed" banner was draped over the wall behind the Colorado bench. A moment of silent prayer was observed prior to the game with both teams in the locker room. But there also was no escaping the total domination by Notre Dame's football once the contest began. 
Colorado dug a hole for itself on the first possession of the game-and that hole just kept getting bigger and bigger. Quarterback Steve Vogel started it by fumbling the football away to Gann on the third play from scrimmage. 
Notre Dame needed but six plays to traverse the 31 yards to the end zone. That was only the beginning. 
Colorado never passed its own 39-yard 


Irish junior defensive tackle Greg Dingens enjoys a field day in the pass-rush department-whether he's chasing starter Steve Vogel (left) or replacement Craig Keenan. Dingens had one of three quarterback sacks for the Irish and also made two other stops for 10 
yards in losses. 
line in the first half-and that came on the play just prior to Vogel's fumble. The Buffs never ran more than three plays before either turning the ball over or punting. They finished with more first-half turnovers (three) than first downs (two). 
Notre Dame made it look easy. It also made it 38-0 by intermission. The Irish had the ball for 19:53 of the opening half, compared to 10:07 for Colorado. They scored touchdowns their first three possessions-and the Colorado offense proved so impotent that Notre Dame's six first-half scoring drives averaged only 38 yards. ' 
Allen Pinkett (twice), Mark Brooks and Alonzo Jefferson all ran for touchdowns before the break, and Steve Beuerlein added a fifth on a short pass to Milt Jackson. Beuerlein, in fact, was downright awesome in his effectiveness through the air. The Irish sophomore, who had made his debut as a starter against this same Colorado team in Boulder in '83, threw 11 passes in the first half and completed 10 for 122 yards. The only miss came on a sideline out pattern that barely slipped off Mark Bavaro's fingers. 
That third-down miss prompted one of 

only two Irish punts in the opening 30 
minutes. Otherwise, Beuerlein was perfect. 
I;fe hit nine straight to start the game, just 
one short of the Notre Dame record held by 
Angelo Bertelli from the '42 Stanford game 
and Joe Montana from the '78 Georgia 
Tech game. Beuerlein went on to establish 
an Irish single-season mark for completion 
percentage, and he wouldn't do any better 
_than he did on this day. 
''We didn't give 
ourselves much of a_·chance, mainly because we didn't ·execute~-We certainly 
can't expect to beat . _N_otre Dame that way.­... ·I really thoughtwe 
.. would be able to. ·-· · throw the ball, but ·· ' .'we justc6uldn't ·_ . 
-mov~ it ~onsistently. '' 

':Craig Keenan 


To add insult to injury, sophomore Hiawatha Francisco roared 80 yards with the second-half kickoff, Beuerlein handed off twice to Pinkett for a cumulative 20 yards-and Notre Dame's starting quarter­back sat down for the day with a 45-0 lead in his back pocket. Scott Grooms and Terry Andrysiak did the rest. 
To put it succinctly, Beuerlein had a ball: "Everything clicked today. You don't get 

· days like that very often. I think I've matured over the past two games to the point where every game is important. We have to play each game like it's our last. If we can continue that intensity, we can have a heck of a season." 
Irish coach Gerry Faust didn't mind 
Beuerlein's performance either: "I'll take 10 of 11 anytime." Or he might even settle for nine of 11. 
That's how many possessions Notre Dame converted to open the ballgame. Not bad. 
If the Buffs had anything going for them, it should have been Vogel's arm. The 6-4 senior came into the game ranked fifth nationally in total offense at 281 yards per game after completing 25 of 47 throws for three touchdowns the previous week against Michigan State in a 344-yard performance. Colorado came into the game averaging 331 passing yards per game, a figure that also ranked fifth nationally. 
Vogel came into the contest needing only 26 passing yards to become Colorado's all­time leader. He got them on an 18-yard toss to Loy Alexander on the third Colorado possession-but it was a record lost in the shuffle of Irish points that rung up on the scoreboard like a slot machine. 
Vogel hung in there until the 10:42 mark of the second period when, on a first down play from his own 27, he was sacked by Wally Kleine and fumbled to Greg Dingens. That brought on junior Craig Keenan, who threw an interception to Mike Haywood on his first series, later threw another to Francisco early in the final period and eventually gave way to junior Derek Marshall. 
Both Keenan and Marshall directed touchdown marches, but McCartney knew they proved little at that point. 
"Obviously, when they put their second string in, that's when we started having success," he said. "Notre Dame's subs helped keep the score where it is. When things got out of hand, otir morale went down. Defense is largely morale, and when things went bad early, it really took the wind out of our sails." 
The Buffs also lost their rudder on the first play from scrimmage when tight end Jon Embree caught an 18-yard pass but went out with a knee injury, never to return. He had come into the game ranked ninth in the nation in receiving after making seven catches the previous week against Michigan State. 
"When we lost Embree, it really hurt us more than I can tell you," McCartney said. "Our game plan counted heavily on him." 

Eighty-one of the 87 Irish players in uniform got to see game action, including seven walkons. Even reserve placekickers Pat Chura and Hal Von Wyl got into the act with a field goal and PAT, respectively. It was that kind of day. 
The 55-point Irish total proved a highwater mark for the Gerry Faust era and the top total for a Notre Dame team since a 69-14 romp over Georgia Tech in '77. 
Faust enjoyed testing the depth of his youthful Irish squad. Though Pinkett rambled for three scores amidst his 67 yards, backup tailback Jefferson added two more to go with 43 rushing yards and 40 more on three receptions. Notre Dame's 212-yai-d rushing total was accomplished without a run longer than 15 yards. 

"We didn't give ourselves much of a chance, mainly because we didn't execute," noted Keenan. "We certainly can't expect to beat Notre Dame that way. I really thought we would be able to throw the ball, but we just couldn't move it consistently." 
What did the Irish gain in such a one­sided struggle? Mark up a little momentum and put them on the plus side of .500. 
"This is one of the better performances I've seen of a Notre Dame team in my four years here," said guard Larry Williams. "We had great effort from everyone this afternoon." 
"The coaches emphasized that we could not let them get confidence in the early going," added strong safety Joe Johnson. "We had to establish ourselves and prevent them from getting any momentum. We got it and didn't let up. I thought we were able to disguise our coverages and confuse their quarterbacks." 
"We've put together six straight quarters of intense football," Pinkett added. "I'm confident we'll be able to carry this over." 
Faust was cautious in assessing the progress made: 
"I think our football team is getting better. We must continue to get better each week. I think the second half of the Michigan State game carried over to the way we played today. Now it's just a process of trying to improve each week. 
"Our defensive line did a fine job of pressuring Vogel, and it took them out of their game plan. I also think our offensive line did a good job of opening holes. We 


Colorado 0 0 7 7-14 Notre Dame 21 17 14 3-55 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND CU NO-Allen Pinkett I run 11:14 7 0 
(John Carney kick) Drive: 31 yards in six plays in 2:37. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 4 run 8:20 14 0 (John Carney kick) Drive: 52 yards in six plays in I :58. 
NO-Milt Jackson 9 pass · from Steve Beuerlein 1:36 21 0 (John Carney kick) Drive: 73 yards in nine plays in 4:30. 
Second Quarter 
NO-Alonzo Jefferson 3 run 10:48 28 0 (John Carney kick) Drive: 32 yards in six plays in 2:00. 
NO-John Carney 40 FG · 8:57 31 0 Drl.ve: No yards iJ! three plays in 2:33. 
NO-Mark Brooks 9 runs 3:58 38 0 (John Carney kick) Drive: 39 yards in eight plays in 4:11. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 13 run 14:38 45 0 (Hal Von Wyl kick) Drive: 20 yards in two plays in :22. 
ND-Aionzo Jefferson 3 run 11:15 52 0 (Pat Chura kick) Drive: 34 yards in six plays in I:54. 
CU-Anthony Weatherspoon 6 run 3:47 52 7 (Dave DeLine kick) Drive: 82 yards in IS plays in 7:28. 
Fourth Quarter NO-Pat Chura 21 FG 14:.58 55 7 Drive: 48 yards in nine plays in 3:49. 
CU-Troy Wolf 10 pass from Derek Marshall 1:08 55 14 (Dave DeLine kick) . Drive: 52 yards in six plays in 2:37. 
A-59,075(c) 


Tram Statistics cu ND First Downs 16 22 
. Rushing 7 14 Passing -9 8 Penalty 0 0 
Rushing Attempts · 39 55 Yards Rushing 126 239 Yards Lost Rushing . 55 . 27 Net Yards Rushing. . 71 212 Net Yards Passing 164 139 
. ' Passes Attempted 25 14 Passes Completed 13 12. Had Intercepted 2 0. 
Total Offensive Plays 64 . 69 
Total Net Yards . 235 351 · . Average Gain Per Play 3.7 5.1. Fumbles: Number-Lost 3-2 0-0. Penalties: Number-Yards 2-10 6-35.' lnierceptioris: Number-Yards 0-0 . .: 2-0 . 

·Number ofPunts-Yards 4-155
·-6-198 .. Average Per Punt · . ·. 33.0 -38.7 ' Punt Returns: Number-Yards 4-7. 5-33 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 5-62 .. 3·137 Third·Down Com·ersions .4-11 .. 6-12 
Individual Statistics 
Colorado Rushing Att. Gain' Lost Net TD Long Eric McCarty 13 39 . 2 37 10. Craig Keenan . 8 51 21 30 10 

A. Weatherspoon · . 6 . IS IS t'-6 .-Sam Smith. 6 13. 13 7 Dion Dyson 2 . 8 8 s· Steve Vogel 4 32 -32 ·-'-4 
Passing. Att. Comp. Int. Yards ·_:To Long Craig Keenan IS· 7 2 78 26 Steve Vogel 7 3 0 :44 19. 
·Derek Marshall 3 3 0 42 . ,; 1 26 Pass Rectlvlng · · ·· . No; Yards: TD Long Troy Wolf ,_s· 651.26 'JoJo Collin$ 2 33 26 Sam Smith 2 12 11. Jon Embree Phil Cross. 
.-~ ':~. :g· 
Loy Alexander . 1 . 18 18 
Notre Dame Rushlnli All. Gain Lost. Net TD Long· Allen Pinkett · 13 70 3 67 3 13 
. Alonzo Jefferson 12-·47-'4 2 . 10 Mark Brooks 5 32 '~~ I 'II Lester Flemons 10 33 2 31 IS· Chris Smith 3 20-20 11 Tom Monahan 2 17, . 17 10 Ian dcHueck . 3 II II .6 Frank Starns · · 5 5 Ray Carter· 'J• I 
~ ,. ~ 
I . 6
Steve Beuerlein -6 -6 Dave Machtolf. 2 . 3 '3 -'2 Scott Grooms .. I 12 -12 -12. 

·Passing · . . . ·Att; · Coinp. Int. Yards TD Long ·Steve Bcuerlein :_ >. . II ' 10 0 122 1 ~ 27 Scott Grooms · 3 . ' 2 0 17 ~ .. 10 p~ Receiving~ . No; Yards TD Long Alonzo Jefferson 3 40 ·. -. 27­Mark Bavaro 3 . 37 -17 Milt Jackson 2 24 .. 15 Ricky Gray· I II·-II 
·Tim Brown.<·· · I 10 <10 Reggie Ward 1 · :1o --10 Pat Cus~ck 
t· . 7 7. 

Junior tailback Allen Pinkett sails skyward for one of his three touchdowns scored against Colorado. Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beuerlein and Colorado cornerback 
Alvin Rubalcaba watch with interest. 
haven't been running the ball the way we should be. Today they got the job done." 
Defensive coordinator Andy Christoff admitted he tried to have his secondary in a different alignment every play-often in the nickel back setup-simply to keep Colorado offbalance. And the word concentration seemed to be heard in a number of corners of the Irish locker room. 
Concentration. 
It was so much easier said than done for the Colorado Buffaloes. It's tough to concentrate on a simple game of football when the game of life was what hung in the balance all week long. 
"You have to give Colorado credit for playing as hard as they did after the week they had," Williams said. 
"We could tell they wanted to win the game for Ed," added Pinkett. "But something as tragic as what they're going through has to take its toll." 
With the Irish tugging at their jerseys and their teammate tugging at their heartstrings, it did indeed. 

..::I
6 
-...
§;;
< 
Z Z 
~ 
W 
~ 
All-America tight end Mark Bavaro looks for an opening following one of his three receptions against the Buffs. Colorado safety John Nairn gets ready to try for the tackle. 


Missouri 



No More Deja Vu 
By JOHN HEISLER 
Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust 
wasn't bashful. He admitted he was 
praying. 
So was Missouri noseguard Steve Leshe: 
"I'm an old Catholic boy and I was 
praying for the Lord to get the damn ball 
through the uprights." 
It was strictly deja vu for Faust. In four 
season with the Irish he'd seen his team 
lose four times with less than a minute left 
on the clock. 
Give a kid a chance of a lifetime to beat 
Notre Dame with the pressure on and he'll 
come through every time. 
Scott Campbell did. On September 26, 
1981, his two-point conversion throw to 
Steve Bryant with :19 on the clock let 
Purdue beat the Irish 15-14. 
Max Zendejas did. On October 16, 
1982, his 48-yard field goal as time expired 
let Arizona beat the Irish 16-13. 
Michael Harper did. On November 27, 
1982, his one-yard scoring dive with :48 on 
the clock let USC beat the Irish 17-13. 
Doug Strang did. On November 12, 
1983, his eight-yard run with :19 on the 
clock let Penn State beat the Irish 34-30. 
So why should Brad Burditt be any 
different? Keep praying, Gerry. 
Give a 22-year-old senior from Monroe 
City, Mo., a chance to kick a 39-yard field 
goal to beat Notre Dame with seven 
seconds left and how's he ever going to 
miss? Especially when he has made every 
kick but two from inside the 40 in his 
entire career. 
But Burditt missed. Plenty of people on 
both sides were surprised. 
The kick was on target, but-like a pop fly-it didn't quite carry far enough. It landed harmlessly in the end zone. Fourteen out of 16 became 14 out of 17. 
Burditt, his Tiget teammates and coach Warren Powers took it like men. Faust and the Irish just took it. 
"I stood behind three guys," said Irish linebacker Rick DiBernardo. "I didn't want to see it." 
·~ lot of people would be lying if they said they didn't think of any flashbacks," said linebacker Mike Golic. 

"I followed the flight of the ball all the way," said defensive tackle Mike Gann. ·~t first I thought it would be too far to the right. Then it started coming back and I thought it was good. Then they told me it was short." 

"Mr. Corrigan (Irish athletic director Gene) told me the difference between good teams and great teams is they win games like this," said tailback Allen Pinkett. 
"The last three years that kick would have been good," said safety Joe Johnson, a senior who saw it happen more times than he cared to remember. 
"I feel sorry for him as an individual," said Burditt's Irish counterpart, John Carney. "He probably feels the weight of the world on his shoulders. He'd probably give anything to get that kick back." 
"I was confident," said Mizzou quarter­back Marlon Adler. "I felt like, 'I want to get back on the bench so I can watch this.' I know Brad and I know what he can do. I felt like we had it. He's kicked those so many times. But this time, it wasn't in the cards. I knew it was going to be close. I was just hoping it would go, go, go.'' 
"When I hit it, I knew it was question­able," said Burditt. "I didn't hit it properly. It's the most difficult moment of my career. I'm just a victim of circumstances.'' 
A full house of 70,915 fans and a national television audience via ABC couldn't have expected a more fingernail­dooming finish. There were plenty of miscues by both sides. But when a pair of high-powered offenses are shut down by sturdy defensive play, .it makes for high drama on every possession. 
Touchdowns proved tough to come by-as Missouri proved on its opening drive. Stealing a play from the Notre Dame playbook, the Tigers warmed up in their traditional black jerseys, only to re-emerge just before kickoff in bright gold shirts and a cannon-full of hazy, gold smoke. It was a tribute to former Mizzou coach Don Faurot, the weekend's honored guest whose Tiger teams had worn all gold. 
"Ever since I got into town, I had a feeling they might do something like that," said Faust. "I saw advertisements that said, 'Wear yellow, or bring it to the game.' We heard rumors before the game they were going to wear yellow uniforms.'' 
The Tigers nearly struck gold on that initial march down to the Notre Dame one. But after quarterback Warren Seitz landed short on a third-down quarterb.ack sneak, Eric Drain tried the skydive route on fourth down. The problem was Gann, who nailed him in mid-air. 
"There was a hole and I filled it," said Gann. "I didn't expect him to be in the air. He just popped up there right in front of me.'' 
"I was shocked that I was stopped," said Drain, who finished with a career-high 120 yards. "I never should have left my feet. I felt those seven points. We didn't have those seven points because I was stopped." 
Mizzou didn't come away completely empty. Backed against the goal line, Pinkett found himself trapped in the end zone on first down after fumbling for a 2-0 Tiger advantage. Three plays after Notre Dame's free kick, Missouri fumbled the ball away. Notre Dame moved from Mizzou's 49 to the eight before the first of three Carney field goals gave it a lead it would never lose. 





The Tigers again backed the visitors up against their own end zone, this time starting at the Notre Dame nine. But Beuerlein had the answer. It was pass 14, pattern eight. 
"Some of the receivers came back to the sidelines saying they thought they could burn number thirteen (defensive back Tony Facinelli)," recalled Beuerlein. "That's how it started. I was going to throw it on second down, but then I saw this opening and just took off (for an 18-yard gain). 
"The coaches thought we should come right back with it. I dropped back and he (touchdown-maker Reggie Ward) was even with him (Facinelli). So I just threw it 

~ where I thought Reggie would be open to 
catch it. We're just lucky it worked out." ~ Ward admitted Facinelli actually tipped ...::~ the ball on the 74-yard scoring play: 
Z 
:;2
::c "In practice, everybody makes great 8 catches. Mine came at the right time. I :2 stood alone in the end zone and thought, 
'All right!' " "I'm really not feeling well," said Facinelli after the game. 
Notre Dame would not score another touchdown. When Pinkett was hit for a loss on a third-and-three attempt from the Missouri 24 late in the second period, Carney came on for a 44-yard three­pointer. 
Gann sacked Adler with a vicious hit, forcing a fumble Wally Kleine recovered late in the third period. Two major penalties pushed the Irish back after reaching the Tiger 11-but Carney responded again for the final Notre Dame points. The rest was left for the defense. 
Mizzou's offense, averaging 475 yards and 35 points per contest, appeared to deserve its number-five national ranking as the second half unfolded. The Tigers drove methodically from their own 24-beginning with eight straight running plays-with Adler finally throwing to Andy Hill for the six points. Pat Ballage broke up Adler's throw for two points, a play that would loom larger as the afternoon wore on. 

Though Beuerlein was brilliant most of the afternoon in completing 16 of 25 throws for 256 yards before something of a hometown crowd (his father grew up in nearby Springfield), his deflected pass that was grabbed by Mizzou 's Michael Scott put the home team back in business. With nine of 10 plays falling in the run column-and Adler sneaking for two yards on fourth down from the 30-the Tigers made it 16­14 with only 3:54 remaining. 
The potential tying two-point attempt saw Adler roll right, but with Troy Wilson right in his face he pitched the ball past Vernon 
~ Boyd and out of bounds. 
~ The Irish managed one important first 
...::~ down while trying to kill the clock, but 
:;2 Mike Viracola eventually had to boom the 
::;; on its own 16 with 1:09 remaining. 
Adler milked three completions out of that minute, but the Tigers' efforts appeared doomed when he slipped at the Notre Dame 41 with 12 seconds left. Only a perfectly-thrown crossing pass to tight end Tony Davis took Missouri to the Irish 22 where Burditt came in for his fateful attempt. 
Amazingly, the Irish defense held strong despite its M*A *S*H unit appearance. With linebacker Mike Larkin sidelined since last August and Mike Kovaleski already playing with pins in his finger, the Irish also lost leading tackler Tony Furjanic to knee ligament damage in the first half. 
It was worse up front. Tackle Greg Dingens didn't make the trip because of a shoulder separation and regular noseguard Mike Griffin didn't play because of a Wednesday practice knee injury. Griffin's backup, Eric Dorsey, sprained an ankle in the second half-leaving injury-plagued Mike Kiernan to hold the fort in the middle. 
"The defense can celebrate the win," praised Faust. "They deserve this one with all the obstacles they faced today. We came in here knowing it was going to be a pit." 
It was a frustrating afternoon for a Missouri team that fell to 1-3 despite outgaining every opponent. 
"New jerseys on people don't win games," said Leshe. "They don't make the blocks or tackles. Nobody on this team is happy." 
"I have no regrets," said Powers. "We· had ourselves in a position to win-we just didn't execute when we had to, and you can't do that and win ballgames." 
Drain didn't think there was any way Burditt would miss the chance for victory: "I had my back to the play because I knew we'd won the game." 
Beuerlein saw it another way: 
"Right when he kicked it, I knew he would -miss. It just fluttered. up there. I said to myself, 'Thank you, we finally won the game.'" 
Gerry Faust looked skyward and seconded that notion. For once, the kid with the chance to beat Notre Dame didn't. 


Notre Dame 10 0 3-16 
Missouri 2 0 6 6-14 

Scoring Summary First Quarter ·. Time ND MU MU-Safety, Allen Pinkett tackled 6:39 0 2 
in end zone by Steve Lesche 

NO-John Carney 25 FG 2:35 2 Drive: 41 yards in seven plays in 2:52 · following Troy Wilson recovery of . Missouri fumble. 
Second Quarter 
NO-Reggie Ward 74 pass 11:58 10 2 from Steve Beuerlein (John Carney kick) Drive: 91 yards in three plays in 1:13 following Missouri punt; 
NO-John Carney 44 FG . 6:36 13 2 Drive: 30 yards in seven plays in3:21 following Missouri punt. · 
Third Quarter . 
r.tU-Andy HilliS pass from Marlon Adler 9:10 13 8 (Marlon Adler pass failed) Drive: 76 yards in 14 plays in S:SO following Notre Dame kickoff. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-John Carney 37 FG 12:51 16 · 8 Drive: Six yards in eight plays in 3:17 following Wally Kleine recovery of Missouri fumble. 
!'.1U-Eric Drain 2 run 4:19 16 14 (Marion Adler run failed) Drive: 58 yards in 10 plays in 3:54 following Michael Scott interception of· Notre Dame pass. 
A-70,915(c) 
Team Statistics ND .MU 

First Downs .18 25 Rushing 4 16. Passing 13 8 Penalty . 
. I. 1 Rushing Attempts 38 63 Yards Gained Rushing 124 296 Yards Lost Rushing 24
26 Passes Completed 17 12 Had Intercepted 2 I Total Offensive Plays ·64 85 Total Net Yards 384 433 Average Gain Per Play 6.0. 5.1 Return Yards 16
. 46 Fumbles: Number....:...LOst 3-0 2-2 Penalties: Number-Yards· 8-72 
. 4-40 

Interceptions: Number:-Yards · 1-25 2-9 NumberofPunts-.,.Yards 4-166 5-171 : Average Per Punt 41.5 34.2 Punt Returns: Number-Yards . 3-21 2-7 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-13 4-60 Possession Time 26:47 33:13 Third·Down Conversions . 6-IS 8-17 Sacks By 2-S 0-0 
Individual Statistics Notre Dame ·Rushing AU. Gain Lost Net TD Long Allen Pinkett . -62 20
20 70 8 0 Steve Beuerlein · 
·6 33 . s . 28 . 0. 18 Chris Smith 5.. 11 I 
.lg ·g. ~. 

Mark Brooks 4. 7. 2 Alonzo Jefferson 2 -3 0 3 0 3
I . 0 4.

. Milt Jackson (4) 0 Passing . . · Att. ·Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Steve Beuerlein 25 16 · 2 256 · I . 74 
Allen Pinkett ,] 1 0 24 0 24 Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long · Milt Jackson . 5 76 0 31 . Tim Brown ·.· s 59 0 16 Mark Bavaro· 4 56 0 24 Allen Pinkett 2 15 0 8 Reggie Ward 1 74 I 74 
, Missouri Rushing Att.Galn · Lost Net TD Long . Eric Drain : 24 120 0 120 1 17 Warren Seitz .12 81 '12 ' 69 0. 48 
·Vernon Boyd 12 48 0. 48 0 12 Marlon Adler 10 31 12: 19 0 14 Sanfio ·Barbosa 4 15 0 15 0 8 Manny Henry ·1 .1 0. I 0 I 
Passing ·. Att.(brp. Int. Yards TD .I.ong 
· Marlon Adler 18 10 1 136 I 21 Wairen Seitz 3 2 . 0 25 0 16 Andy Hill 1 0 0 0 ·. 0. 0: 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Tony Da\is s 82 0 21 Andy Hill .. 
3 46 . I 17. George Shorthose . 2 20 0 16 David Pe)1on 2 13 . 0 8 
Free safetY. Steve Lawrence (23) makes sure a Missouri ballcarrier doesn't go far-as Joe Johnson (27) and Troy Wilson stand ready to lend a hand. 
~ • -• • • • -~ • t ~ ' i ~ 
Miami 


Drowning by Hurricane 
by JOHN HEISLER Bernie Kosar. Defending national champion Miami 
Hurricanes. ESPN prime-time national telecast. Lights by Musco Mobile Lighting Ltd. Allen Pinkett. Two top 20 teams. Representatives from seven different bowl 
games. Three-game winning streak by the Irish. A chance for revenge for Notre Dame, an 
embarrassed 20-0 loser the previous year on national television from the Orange Bowl. 
A chance for victory for Miami, never ever a winner in Notre Dame Stadium. 
It had all the makings of a lulu of a football game. Then came the stunning reality of it all for Notre Dame: 
Pouring rain. Four scores by Alonzo Highsmith. An Irish defense, ever so impressive in 
the first half and ever so misplaced in the second. 
Notre Dame intensity, ever so intimidat­ing in the opening half and ever so absent in the closing. 
An injured Steve Beuerlein. An awesome Bernie Kosar. A 10-7 Notre Dame halftime lead-and a 
convincing 31-13 Miami victory. 
In an emotional setting that featured pregame promises and taunts to go with Hatfield and McCoy-style feuding, the Hurricanes backed up their national 

· ranking and their pledge to finally beat Notre Dame on its own turf. They did it under. unlikely cond~tions, accounting for 252 second-half yards in a downpour that only seemed to drown the home team. 
The contrast between Notre Dame's first­and second-half play was stark. The visitors from Miami outscored the Irish 24-3 after intermission, ran off 45 plays to 25 for Notre Dame-and permitted only 46 total yards by the Irish during those final, rain­drenched, 30 minutes. 
As the rain pelted harder as the second half wore on, Kosar played better. Though the sophomore completed 10 of 15 throws in the first half, they went for only 59 yards-as the Irish effectively kept his offense throttled. But time and time again, Kosar throttled Notre Dame in the second half. When the Irish would go for their nickel-back formation, Kosar would check off and hand the ball to Highsmith. When the Irish remained in their field defense, Kosar would throw and throw effectively. 
22 His second-half percentage-10 of 14­nearly mirrored his first-half effort, but this time the 10 completions accounted for 146 yards. Though Kosar had been labeled a drop-back, pro-style quarterback, he showed no hesitation in running away from the pursuit and throwing on the fly. 


There was no secret to Miami's second­half success according to Kosar: "We didn't panic at halftime when we were down. We just ran the offense." Irish coach Gerry Faust was more specific: 
"We would bring in the extra defensive back to try and stop their passing, and then they would audible at the line and run Highsmith at our extra back. We'd flush Kosar out of the pocket, b~t he did an excellent job scrambling and spotting open people. That's a great attribute for a quarterback to have." 
The opening minutes of the contest 

proved to be something of an alley fight­
as seven personal fouls for unnecessary 
roughness were blown in the first two-and­
a-half-quarters. Emotional involvement on 
the part of both teams had been a trait of 
recent Notre Dame-Miami matchups, and 
this would be no different. Neither team 
earned a passing grade in gentlemanly 
conduct. 
"This was the wildest game I've ever 

been in," noted Irish linebacker Mike 
Golic. "We knew it would be that way 
against Miami." 
Once the teams settled down to the 

business of playing football, neither had 
much success in the opening half. They 
traded turnovers on the second and third 
possessions of the game-after the Irish 
failed to gain a single yard on their initial 
drive. 
Notre Dame nearly added a third to that 

succession of turnovers when Mike 
Haywood blocked a Hurricane punt from 
the Miami 35. The ball carried over the 
line of scrimmage, however, and touched 
Irish linebacker Rick DiBernardo. When 
Miami recovered, the officials awarded it 
the ball for a net six-yard gain. The 
Hurricanes eventually missed a 52-yard 
field-goal attempt. 
Beuerlein threw his second interception 

in the final minute of the first period, and 
Miami took it in from there for its only 
first-half points. The 'Canes jumped Notre 
Dame's defense on three straight plays­
first a 12-yard draw play by fullback Darryl 
Oliver, next a Kosar scramble that ended in 
a 17-yard throw to Eddie Brown and finally 
a 12-yard dash by Highsmith. 
Notre Dame had to use its defense to 

account for its first-half points. After a 
Mike Viracola punt was downed on the 
Miami six, the Hurricanes managed only 
four yards in three plays out to the 1 0-yard 
line. When the snap to punter Rick Tuten 
came in high and outside, Pat Ballage led a 
herd of Irish rushers and Joe Johnson 
finally chased Tuten out the back of the end 
zone for two points. 
After Miami's free kick, Notre Dame 







artfully used the final four minutes of the half to grab a lead. Beuerlein managed 17­yard gains on throws to Chris Smith and Tim Brown-and eventually located Milt Jackson on a roll-out toss from four yards away with only 21 seconds left. 
When Mike Griffin sacked Kosar on the last play of the half, the Irish seemed to take all the momentum in the world into intermission. That notion was seconded when Highsmith fumbled the football away on the opening play of period number three. But a personal foul cost the Irish valuable yardage near the goal line, and they ended up settling for a John Carney field goal instead of seven points and a 

::3 potential 17-7 advantage. Nothing would go ~ right for Faust's crew the rest of the !:( evening. z "We took charge offensively in the
z 
~ second half," said Miami coach Jimmy 
~ Johnson. "Our defense rose to the occasion after our fumble at the beginning of the half to keep them out of the end zone. From that time, the game was ours." · The Hurricanes proceeded to pound the ball down the wet Notre Dame Stadium turf four straight times. The Irish defense mY.steriously offered little opposition, spending more than 19 minutes on the field during the second half. The Notre Dame intensity vanished. The Miami domination was downright astonishing. 
In fairness to Notre Dame, an unpubli­cized first-half shoulder injury to Beuerlein-suffered on a quarterback rollout and keeper-severely limited the Irish offensive game plan. Beuerlein threw 15 times for eight completions after the break but for only 48 net yards. His last 

::3 nine attempts produced 11 total yards. ~ After that early field goal, Notre Dame ~ managed only three first downs the rest of 
z the half. 
z 
~ "We iced the shoulder down at halftime, G'i but he was still playing in pain and that !il. took away the bomb," said Faust. "He 
could throw short, so I didn't consider changing. We thought we could control the ball with our running game and short 
passes." Beuerlein wasn't so kind in grading his own effectiveness: 
"It was stupid of me to keep playing. I should have given Scott Grooms a chance. He probably could have done a better job. I just thought the pain would go away. I was okay throwing the short pass, but it hurt to 
throw the ball long. That's why there were those three-and four-yard passes at the end of the game." 
Beuerlein's condition certainly didn't aid the Notre Dame cause, but it might not have made any difference anyway. Miami 

::3 mowed its way through the Irish defense 
~ like a combine laying waste to a Kansas 
~ wheatfield. Kosar mixed and matched his 
~ plays to perfection, even in the pouring 
f5 rain. There's nothing flukey about a team 
G'i that marches 79, 61, 44 and 77 yards for 
!;; its points as the Hurricanes did. If there was a single play that doomed 
Raindrops were the order of the evening, but they didn't stop the Hurricanes' Alonzo Highsmith from scoring four touchdowns in the 31-13 Miami triumph. 
. . . . . ' . 

'6\Ale justdidn'ttake it to them in tl-~e seconcl.half. 91. _:;:Mike Gann 
Notre Dame, it was a Pat Ballage intercep­tion in the end zone that was wiped out. The pickoff came on a first-and-goal opportunity for Miami. The Irish were charged with interference on a close call in which a Notre Dame defender hit a potential receiver at nearly the exact instant the pass was deflected in Ballage's direc­tion. The Hurricanes got the call and the lead at 21-13 and.never looked back. 
The question of the evening-what happened to Notre Dame's defensive intensity level after the first half? 
"We can't have any more second halves like tonight," understated Faust. "We just haven't moved the football enough the last two weeks to give our defense any rest in the second half." 
"This is the lowest I've felt in my four years here," said Irish defensive tackle Mike Gann, who now lives in Orlando. "We didn't make the tackles. Once they started rolling, we were done. We let their momentum get. to us and I can't understand that. 
"We just didn't seem to take it to them in the second half." "Revenge was definitely on our minds, 
especially after they embarrassed us last 
year, 20-0, on national television," said 
Pinkett. "We just played two different games tonight. In the second half, we couldn't do anything." 
And if the Irish thought they had the motivational edge after poor performances in their last two Orange Bowl appearances, then Miami only reveled in the wake of the hopped-up Notre Dame players and fans. 
"There were 60,000 people screaming at the coaches and players, and they weren't screaming, 'Welcome to Notre Dame,' " said Johnson. 
"Without question, it broke our concen­tration early in the game. Their touchdown and safety were scored in front of their student section, and we had mental lapses by some backups on both plays. 
"But all the excitement and atmosphere made the win that much more rewarding. I'm not sure it would have been as exciting to beat them with a passive crowd." 
Passive and porous-they more aptly described Notre Dame's defensive storm troopers. 
And potent? That term was pointedly reserved only for the Miami Hurricanes. 
Miami. 0 14 10-31 
Notre Dame 0 10 Q-13 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time Ul\1 ND UM-Alonzo Highsmith 4 pass 11:33 7 0 
from Bernie Kosar (Mark Seelig kick) Drive: 42 yards in nine plays in 3:57 . following Reggie Sutton interception of Notre Dame pass. NO-Safety, Rick Tuten chased out ofend 4:05 2 zone by Joe Johnson. 
NO-Milt Jackson 4 pass :21 7 10 from Steve· Beuerlein (Alonzo Jefferson run) Drive: 57 yards in 10 plays in 3:44 following Miami punt. · 
Third Quarter · . . NO-John Carney 39 FO . 12:54 7·. 13 Drive: minus-one yard in three plays in 
2:01 following John McCabe recovery of Miami fumble. 
UM-Aionzo Highsmith I run 6:45 14 13 (Mark Seelig kick) Drive: 79 yards· in 12 plays in 6:09 

. . · following Notre Dame kickoff. 
UM-Aionzo Highsmith 2 run 1:04 21 13_ (Mark Seelig kick) . . Drive: 61 yards in 10 plays in 4:12 · 

. following Notre Dame punt. · · Fourth Quarter . UM-Mark Seelig 27 FO . . 6:59 24 13 
Drive: 44 yards in II plays in 4:24 following Notre Dame loss of ball on .. downs. . · · 'UM-Alonzo Highsmith 1pass · 1:13 31 13 . 
. from Bernie Kosar 
(Mark Seelig kick) 
Drive: 77 yards in 11 plays in 3:58 . · 
. following Notre Dame punt. · 
J\-S9,01S(c) 
Team Statistics 

Ffrst Do-...11s · Rushing
::! -Passing · · ·Penalty · Rushing Attempts · . Yards Rushing Yards Lost Rushing Net Yards Rushing· 
· Net Yards Passing Passes Attempted· 
. Passes Completed · Had Intercepted Total Offensive Plays Total Net Yards . 
Average Gain Per Play Fumbles: Number-Lost Penalties·: Number-Yards 
·Ul\1 20 
9 
10 'I' 
4S 
171 22 149 
.205 ·. 29 
. 20. 0 74 354 
4.8. 3-2 
S-46 

Interceptions: Number-Yards  2-22  
Number of Punts-Yards  2-40  
Average Per Punt  .20.0  
Punt Returns: Number-Yards  0-0  - 
Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards  1-16  
_. Third Down Conversions  7-14  

Individual Statistics 
Miami Rushing .Au. Gain Lost·· Net-Alonzo Highsmith 18 69 3 66 

Darryl Oliver Warren Williams Ed Brown. ·Melvin Bratton Rick Tuten Bernie Kosar 
Passing · 
Bernie Kosar Pass Receiving Ed Brown. 
14  ;  53  2  · Sl  
6  .. 31  L  30  
1  13  0  13  
3  8  0  8  
1  0  10  -10  
2  0  9  -9  

Att. c;:omp•. Int. Yards 
29 20 .. 0 205 
No: Yards 7 126 

_Alonzo Highsmith .6 18 Willie Smith 4 35 · Stanley Shakespeare 2 2S Melvin Bratton 1 1 
Notre Dame Rushing Alt. .Gain Lost 
. Net Allen Pinkett , 13 56 51

2 . Steve Beuerlein · 8 12 38 -26 Chris Smith .·. · 3 . 13 0 13 · Alonzo Jefferson 4 9 '2 7 Mark Brooks 2 4 0 4 
·P'asslng Att. Comp. Int. Yards Steve Beuerlein 29 16 2 141 Pass Receiving . · No. Yards Milt Jackson . s . 36 Mark Bavaro 3 33 Allen Pinkett 3 18 Chris Smith. 2 20 Joe Howard 2. 17 
. Tim Bro-...11 1 17 
ND 14 
-s 
7 .2 30: 
9S 
42 
53 
. 141 29. . . 16 
2 
59 
194 3.3 4-!" 
6-48 
. 0-0 
S-168 
33.6 . 0-0 . 6-119 . S-13 
T~.Loi~ 
0 12 0 13 .o 13 0 4 0 -10 0 -7 
TD Long 
·. 2 
40 
TD Long 0 40 2 13 0 18 0 20 0 1 
-TD Long 0 IS 0 6 0 : 9 0 7: 0 4 
TD 'Long 1· 17 
TD Long 1 17 0 16 0 10 . 0 17 0 10 -0 17 


Air Force 

Those Rainy-Day Feelings 
by JIM DAVES 
It was time to get a little revenge. 
After stumbling in front of a national television audience the previous week against Miami, Notre Dame was ready to bury those bitter memories and shoot down the A.ir Force Academy which had been a thorn in the Irish side over the past two 
seasons. 
The Falcons embarrassed Notre Dame 30-17 in '82 on their home turf and spoiled a late rally in the final Irish home game of '83 by blocking a chip shot field goal as time expired in a 23-22 upset. 
Now Notre Dame was ready for a little payback. 
Forget the fact the Falcons entered the game second in the nation in rushing with their wishbone attack. Never mind that Air Force was racking up an average of 37.8 
points per game with a 4-2 record. No 
service academy had ever beaten Notre 
Dame three consecutive seasons and this pint-sized team would not be the first, said Irish fans. 

Notre Dame outmanned the Falcons at practically every position and outweighed them on the front line by an average of 40 pounds per man. Surely the Irish offense would finally click into gear and swat these flyboys aside for its quicksilver running backs to sprint through. It didn't matter that quarterback Steve Beuerlein was spending the afternoon on the sidelines tending a bruised shoulder. The team could spend the day pounding the ball on the ground and mix in an occasional forward pass. 
By the time the football was teed up, everyone had the Irish figured as favorites 
to win .. Everyone except the Falcons, who 
shocked the packed stadium and ESPN 
television audience with their resounding 21-7 viCtory. 
Air Force rocked the Irish with its own impressive running attack. The Falcons seemed to run unopposed for 371 yards, while holding Notre Dame to only 90 net yards rushing and 207 total yards. There was no doubt which was the superior team this day. 
"I think this was one of the biggest wins the Air Force Academy has ever had," said an elated Fisher DeBerry, who had the Falcons off to a 5-2 start in his first year as head coach. "It's one of the biggest wins I've ever been associated with. Nobody in America thought we could win the game 
' 

rat .&~mM""'!m ~,. ,'=' ~}~--.. 
Falcon quarterback Bart Weiss ran the option to near perfection against the Irish, faking to fullback Pat Evans on this occasion. \Veiss rushed for 69 yards himself as the Falcons rolled up 371 net yards on the ground. ­
except us." 
While DeBerry was basking in the victory in the Falcon locker room, Irish mentor Gerry Faust was having problems finding the answers to how his team was manhandled in a gloomier Notre Dame dressing facility. 
"I'd like to know the answer to that myself," puzzled Faust when questioned about the smaller Falcons dominating his beefier players. "It's frustrating. One of the things our line lacks is quickness because of our size. And they out-quicked us. 
"The thing that was a problem for us was that our line didn't get off the ball well enough," continued Faust. "Ifyou don't control the line of scrimmage, you don't win the game. It gets down to the fact that their line outplayed our line. It's as simple asthat." · 
In fact, the Falcon ground attack was so effective, quarterback Bart Weiss only threw six times during the day, completing two for 27 yards. Instead, Weiss directed the Air Force wishbone attack to near perfection, eating up 34:39 of the game's 60 minutes on march after march. 
In the first half Weiss let his backfield corps of Jody Simmons, Pat Evans, Mike Brown, Johnny Smith and Greg Pshsniak run roughshod over the Irish. After the teams exchanged punts, the Falcons struck for their first score on a five-yard jog by Simmons untouched through the heart of the Notre Dame defense. 
Simmons keyed the 63-yard drive on its second play with a 28-yard gallop down the right sideline to the Irish 26. Three plays later, facing a third-and-12 situation, DeBerry elected to stay with his ground attack and sent Pshsniak off the left side. It worked for a first down and three plays later Simmons crossed the goal line. 
Notre Dame's only consolation came when Carlos Mateos shanked the PAT attempt to give Air Force a 6-0 adva~tage. 
On the first drive of the second quarter, quarterback Scott Grooms engineered Notre Dame's only scoring drive of the day. Grooms was replacing Beuerlein in his first collegiate start. The fifth-year senior took the Irish 53 yards in 14 plays, culminating the march with a fourth-down touchdown flick between two defenders to a tumbling Milt Jackson. 
The Irish had elected to go for a field goal on the play, but Faust called timeout and rethought the matter before returning his offense to the field. 
Grooms finished the game with 117 yards, hitting only 12 of 35 attempts. "My performance was very inadequate. I missed a lot of open people and had a hard time finding open receivers," he reflected afterwards. "It was slippery out there and I was hesitant at times because I was afraid I'd slip on my back 'foot. So a lot of times when guys were open, I was throwing off my back foot and couldn't get any zip on the ball." · 
John Carney's.extra point gave Notre Dame a slim 7-6 lead, but it would last only 4:31, the time it took the Falcons to 





race to their go-ahead score. 
After the kickoff,. Weiss quickly com­manded his squad 76 yards for its second score. The Falcons never faced a third­down situation in the 11-play march, racking up six first downs en route to the end zone. Smith plunged over from the one followed by a halfback option pass from Brown to Hugh Brennen for the two-point conversion and a 14-7 lead with 5:22 left in the half. 
Weiss again led the Falcons to Notre Dame's 28 late in the half for another potential score, but Mateos missed a 45­yard field goal attempt with 24 seconds remaining. 
"Our quarterback played extremely well," said DeBerry about Weiss. "He did a good job of controlling the game on the field. He is one of the most outstanding option quarterbacks in th~ country." 
In the opening 30 minutes, Simmons picked up 95 yards on 12 rushes while

Irish linebacker Mike Kovaleski heads for Air Force's quarterback as Bart Weiss 
Pshsniak added 40, Smith 24, Evans 23 
looks for someplace to unload the football. 
and Eric Pharris 22 yards. Weiss totalled only three yards, but in the second half he would add a lot of credibility to DeBerry's statements. 
The Irish defense adjusted in the third quarter, playing the corners tighter and forcing the action wide. Noticing this, Weiss kept the ball himself instead of pitching out and churned up 66 of Air Force's 155 yards in the half. 
Besides the switch on defense, the Irish sought to correct the first-half miscues between Grooms and center Mike Kelly by bringing in reserve snapper. Robbie Finnegan. Four times in the first two quarters, Grooms and Kelly experienced bad exchanges on the snap, resulting in four Notre Dame fumbles. Although the Irish recovered all the bobbles, they could not afford the lost plays. 
While Finnegan's presence resulted in no 
·ootched .snaps, it didn't spark the 'li-ish dormant offensive efforts. After compiling 114 yards in the first two periods, the Irish produced just 93 yards the rest of the day. 
Allen Pinkett managed to net 76 yards on 22 carries, his best performance of the season-but far below the 197 yards on 27 carries he amassed the previous season against the Falcons. Senior Chris Smith, the oilly other back to carry the ball, also picked up a season-high 23 yards on six carries. 
On the other side of the line, six Falcons gained at least 24 yards, topped by Simmons' 141 yards on 24 rushes. 

~ Still, Notre Dame had its chances in the 
...:: final 30 minutes. Midway through the third 
~ r~g~r:: ~~!i~i~~~:~~::.!~i:r~~~­
_ when Grooms' pass intended for Jackson 
.,,_··:·-··.·, ~. ~~themooMre~rned~mthecrowd 
;..: was intercepted by Dwan Wilson and .., ~ returned to the 47. 
Irish quarterback Scott Grooms flings one of his pass attempts in the direction of After forcing Air Force to punt, the Irish walk-on split end Pat Cusack. 
drove to their own 46 before Pinkett 


fumbled the ball and another drive away on 
first down. Notre Dame dodged the bullet 
on the next series when defensive lineman 
Mike Gann pounced on a loose ball 
Pshsniak coughed up at the Irish nine-yard 
line early in the fourth quarter. 
After two incomplete passes, Grooms 

hooked up with Pinkett for a 20-yard gainer 
to the 29. Moments later Pinkett dashed 
around the right side for 13 more yards to the 42. Following a plunge by Smith up the middle and an eight-yard reception by tight · end Mark Bavaro, the Irish were faced with 
third and one just shy of midfield. 
Grooms tried a sneak up the middle, but 

the smaller Falcons wouldn't budge. On 
fourth down and inches the Irish decided to 
go for it and sent Pinkett over the top. 
There Air Force nose guard Larry Nicklas 
stopped his flight at the line of scrimmage 
and smashed him down in the Notre Dame 
backfield, ending Notre Dame's last serious 
threat. 
Weiss used the next 6:31 to direct the 

Falcons 49 yards for the insurance 
touchdown. He carried the ball himself the 
last four times for the score to eliminate the 
possibility of a fumble. 
"I feel great about beating Notre Dame," 

reflected Weiss. "Our defense held them, 
we scored when we had to and the 
offensive line played great. We knew 
coming in that Notre Dame was going to 
have trouble with our wishbone." 
While Weiss reveled in the victory, the 

Notre Dame players exited the field to a 
chorus of boos for the second consecutive 
weekend as their record slumped to 3-3. 
"The criticism from the fans and the 

press hurts a lot," admitted tri-captain Mike Golic. "But I don't think we're doubting ourselves. We're not quitters, we have to go out and execute and get the job done." 
Golic felt that was the key to the Falcons' win. "They executed fantastically," noted Golic. "Their blocking is very good. They didn't blow you off, but they positioned you well when they hit you." 
Teammate Wally Kleine agreed with Golic, but also believed missed assignments helped to fuel the Air Force attack. "Everyone has a responsibility," explained Kleine. "The tackles had the fullback most of the time. Each person had a different phase to cover. At times we made calls and people just weren't there to make the plays." 
Offensively, the mystery of where the once-potent Irish rushing attack had disappeared to was beginning to thicken. 
"I wish I knew what the answer is as far as why our running game has had such difficulty," pondered Faust, whose Irish experienced their second straight weekend without gaining 100 yards on the ground. "We're just not controlling the line of scrimmage at all, and we're not getting off the ball. We've got to do a better job, that's all you can say." 
Pinkett had a simpler explanation for the lack of offense. "The defense just stopped us." 
As the Irish faithful filed out of the stadium into the drizzle, few paid any attention as the north-end goal post eerily drooped over to one side. It appeared as if the stadium Knute Rockne himself had built felt the effects of this loss. 
It would be another year before the Irish could think about revenge. 

Allen Pinkett in particular, and the Notre Dame ground game in general, found no easy sledding against Air Force. Pinkett managed only 76 yards and the Irish, as a team, ended up with only 90 net rushing yards. 
6 0 7-21
Air Force 
Notre Dame 0 0 0-7 

Scoring Summary First Quarter nme AF ND AF-Jody Simmons Srun 5:38 6 0 
(Carlos Mateos kick failed) . · Drive: 63 yards in eight in 2:41 follow­ing Notre Dame punt. 

Second Quarter NO-Milt Jackson 2 pass 
10:23. 6 7 from Scott Grooms · (John Carney kick) Drive: 53 yards in 14 plays in 4:49 . following Air Force punt. AF-Johnny Smith I run 5:52 14 7 (Mike Brown pass to Hugh Brennan) Drive:. 76 yards in II plays in 4:31 following Notre Dame kickoff Fourth Quarter AF-Bart Weiss Srun 4:07 21 · (Carlos Mateos kick) .Drive: 51 yards in 14 plays in 6:31 following Notre Dame loss of ball on ·.downs.. · A.;_59,075(c) 
Team Statistics 
. AF 

ND First Downs 24 14 Rushing 22 7 ·Passing ·2 s Penalty 0 2 ·Rushing Attempts 75 30 Yards Rushing 399 123 Yards Lost Rushing 28 33 Net Yards Rushing 371 90 Net Yards Passing 27 117 . Passes Attempted 6 35 Passes Completed 2 . 12 · . Had Intercepted 0 . I 
Total Offensive Plays 
81 . 65 Total Net Yards 398 207 · ··Average Gain Per Play 4.9 • 3.2 Fumbles: Number-Lost 4-3 6-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 7-64 2-10 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-27 .· 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards 6-227 . 7-280 · AveragePer·Punt · 37.8 . 40.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 6-31 2-9
.. Kickoff Returns: Number...:. Yards . 1-24 3-52 Third Down Conversions · 5-19
8-16. 
Individual Statistics 

Air Force · Rushing Att; Gain Lost Net TD :Long Jody Simmons 24 145 4 141 1 28 Bart Weiss 20 87 18 69 .1 . 24 Pat Evans: . 13 54 0 54 0 .·• 9 Greg Pshsniak 7 41 6 35 . 0 ·13 
. Mike Brown . 6 26 0 26 0 8 Johnny Smith 4 24 o· 24 1 9 Eric Pharris . I 22 ·. 0 0. 22
22 . 

Passing AU. Comp. Int. Yards· TD Long Bart Weiss 6 2 ·o 27 0 18 Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Hugh Brennan I 9 0 9 Eric Pharris I 18 0 18 
.. 
Notre Dame Rushing ·AU. Gain Lost Net TD Long
0.

Allen Pinkett 22 79 3. 76 13 Chris Smith. 6 23 0 ·23 
o. IS 

Scott Grooms 12 21 -30 -9 0 7. Passing AU. Comp. lni.· Yards TD Long Scott Grooms 35 12 I 117 1 21 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long· Tim Brown 4 29 0 18 Mark Bavaro · 3 29 .0 14 Allen Pinkett · 2 29 ·o 20 Joe Howard 1 21 0 21 Chris Smith I 7 0 7 Milt Jackson I '2 4 2 
:. 


.-"'\ -.... '"" ... .. ~ ~ . \ .. : ~ . 
.II 
South Carolina 


Losing the Handle-Again 

By KAREN CROAKE The Irish hit the skids against South Carolina. 
The ominous black clouds hovering over Notre Dame Stadium foreshadowed the gloom, doom and despair. The Irish squandered a 12-point lead in the final 15 minutes as the unbeaten Gamecocks rallied for a 36-32 victory in the House that Rock built. Not since 1956, when the Irish were struggling under· coach Terry Brennan, had Notre Dame lost three straight at home. A · national ESPN television audience and 59,075 wet and weary fans gazed on as the Irish sank to a murky 3-4 mark. · 
"We get so close so many times," said defensive tackle Mike Gann. "We go out against teams that aren't as good or as talented or whatever we arc, and somehow, some way, we lose the grip on the game." 
It didn't take the Irish long to lose control of this one. Despite committing 
three turnovers in the first six minutes of 
the second half, the quick-striking 
Gamecocks dropped three bombs for 22 
points in less than seven minutes. 
"Playing here turned out to be about like playing anywhere else," said South Carolina offensive guard Del Wilkes. "You hear a lot about the place, but we knew we weren't coming up here to play Knute Rockne or the Gipper or anybody else like that. And when we didn't see any ghosts sitting around, we knew we'd be all right." 
The Gamecocks showed their lack of respect for whatever spirits wander through Notre Dame Stadium when they elected to go for it on fourth and two on the Irish eight-yard line at the start of the final period. That takes guts. After grabbing a pitchout, running back Quinton Lewis threw toward the end zone, and Irish defensive Hiawatha Francisco picked it off. But the officials whistled the Irish for pass interference. The ghosts had an off day. Two plays later quarterback Mike Hold, who replaced starter Allen Mitchell earlier in the second half, sneaked in from the one-yard line. Kent Hagood crossed over for the two-point conversion and the floodgates were pinned open. 
"We were really down in the first half," said Gamecock coach Joe Morrison, whose all-black attire belied his happiness. "But our guys got back up and turned it around by the end of the ball game. I was con­cerned when we started off with the turnovers in the second half. But we really didn't change anything at halftime. We just started trying and playing up to our 
potential." Three minutes later, South Carolina scored its go-ahead touchdown. 

Notre Dame's lumbering defense trapped Hold in his backfield on third and eight, but the 5-11, 195-pound junior, who has never been mistaken for a sprinter, somehow managed to elude the heavy rush. No one laid a hand on him as he scam­pered 33 yards downfield for the touch­down. Scott Hagler's kick gave the Gamecocks a 29-26 edge. 
"Coach told me they were letting me have the delay," said Hold. "I just did what he told me and was able to follow the blocks to the end zone." 
"We had good pass coverage and a good pass rush, but we just went right past him," said Gann, shaking his head in disbelief. · 
Freaky' things were haunting the Irish this blustery October day. 
On Notre Dame's ensuing possession, fullback Chris Smith lost the ball on the Irish 17-yard line when offensive ·lineman Larry Williams, Smith's lead blocker, kicked the ball loose with his foot. Gamecock defender Rick Rabune recov­ered. 
Three plays later, Lewis zigzagged 

around left end for a four-yard touchdown. 
Hagler's kick gave the Gamecocks a 10­
point lead at 36-26. 
"Even in the fourth quarter, we knew we 

could win," said Hold. "The question was, 
when would we let them have it? We were 
the better team today." 
Although the Gamecocks had taken 

command of the muddy field, the Irish 
weren't quite ready to slip quietly into their 
grave. 
Behind the pinpoint passing of sopho­

more quarterback Steve Beuerlein and the 
effective running of tailback Allen Pinkett, 
the Irish marched 83 yards in four-and-a­
half minutes. Beuerlein hit wide receiver 
Joe Howard for 12 yards and then fired a 
39-yard pass to freshman Reggie Ward 
down the right sideline. Pinkett burst down 
the left sideline for another 12 yards, then 
capped the drive with a one-yard skydive 
over the goal line. The two-point conver­
sion failed, but the Irish only trailed by 
four, 36-32. ' 
Notre Dame's defense then halted South 

Carolina on downs on the Irish 16-yard 
line. Tracy Evans' high snap of the football 
sailed over barefooted punter Tom O'Con­
nor's outstretched hands and into the end 
zone for what looked like an Irish safety. 
But an illegal procedure call against South 
Carolina saved the Gamecocks and gave 
them a chance to re-kick. This time, 
O'Connor booted a 40-yard punt that put 
the Irish at the South Carolina 47-yard line. 
The Irish dusted off their two-minute 

drill routine. 
But, on the first play from scrimmage, 

Beuerlein's pass slipped through the hands 
of a wide-open Mark Bavaro at the 20. 
"It was a good throw, " admitted Bavaro. 

"I should have had it." 
Beuerlein dropped back again and threw 

deep for Howard. But Gamecock defender 
Earl Johnson stepped in front of him and 
intercepted the pass, along with Notre 

I 
I 
j, 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
[ 
I 
l 
I 
~ ~ i:
u 0 I· 
..J i !:
:; ~ i
::; I 
I 
i 
l 
l 
i 
t. 
i 
i 
i 
! 




Dame's hopes of a comeback. 
"We had a blitz on and a man defense," said Johnson. ''Howard was my man all the way. It was the biggest interception of my career." 
"I thought Joe had him beat," said Beuerlein, who showed little effects from the bruised shoulder that kept him out of the Air Force game the previous week. "We needed seven points. We thought we could catch them in their two-deep secondary. I didn't have a lot of time on that play, and I thought Joe was open. I just didn't get enough on the ball." 
The Gamecocks, ranked 11th in both the AP and UPI polls prior to the game, ran out the clock for their sixth victory in a row. 
"We play hot and cold," said Irish linebacker Mike Larkin, who returned to the lineup for the first time since the last game of the 1982 season. "One play we have everybody where they're supposed to be, and we throw them for a loss. The next one, well, they run a simple little draw play

Sand get 15 yards." 
~ Although the Gamecocks jumped out to a 
~ dominated the contest through the first 
~ three periods. After John Carney missed 
~ his first field goal of the season-a 39-yard attempt that warned of mishaps yet to come-the Irish scored their first touch­down early in the second quarter on a four­yard scamper by Pinkett. The junior tailback would finish the day with exactly 100 yards rushing, hitting the century mark for the first time since the Liberty Bowl. 
Beuerlein hooked up with Bavaro for a five-yard touchdown strike with five minutes left in the first half to put the Irish up 14-7 
With Hold at the controls, the Game­cocks quickly tied it at 14 as Hagood scored on a two-yard burst. 
The Irish moved ahead again for a 17-14 halftime lead on Carney's 48-yard field goal as time ran out. 
Notre Dame increased its lead to six when Carney added another field goal-this one from 47 yards_._after Mike Golic recovered Mitchell's fumbled snap. 
When Gann pounced on a South Carolina fumble on the Gamecocks' 14-yard line, the Irish were sitting pretty. Three plays later Pinkett tossed a picture-perfect flea-flicker to Beuerlein who strolled into the end zone. Although the two-point conversion attempt failed, Notre Dame owned a 26-14 lead and appeared headed toward a victory. 
Somebody just forgot to tell the Game­cocks. 
"It's hard to pinpoint exactly what happens in these games," said cornerback Pat Ball age. "The attitude of the players is still positive. We played a whole lot better than we did against Air Force, but we still lost a football game we should have won." 

~ The statistics prove Ballage had a point. 
g The Irish accumulated 415 yards total 
: offense to a generous 337 for the Game­
=; cocks. Beuerlein cor_npleted.15 of 29 passes 

< ~ 
...J ...J 
<
...J en 
~ 
.G 
0 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dr§~:]~1.;E~:J2~~~~}2~,~.2~i~~ ~ 
A healthy Allen Pinkett produced his first 100-yard day of the year, rushing for 100 on the nose against South Carolina. But the Gamecocks' Fire Ant defense made the Irish junior earn every one of them. 
for a career best of 260 yards .. Nine display through the adversity. Ignoring his different players caught passes. The defense 10-10 record at Notre Dame Stadium, forced three fumbles and came up with a Faust did nothing but highlight the good pair of interceptions. Pinkett rushed for 100 things he saw in his team during the latest yards, and Smith had his best rushing effort disappointment. · of '84 with 52 yards. 
"I saw things today that were good, if When those things happen, you're you can have good feelings after a loss,"supposed to win. But still, the Irish found a said Faust, whose gravel-pit voice grows way to let victory slip through their fingers. 
throatier with each defeat. "We bounced Notre Dame can't seem to put the game back from playing very poorly last week to away in the fourth quarter. In the 41 games playing very well this week. We played anthat Gerry Faust had coached at Notre excellent football game. We made big Dame, the Irish have gone into the final improvements on our offensive line today. 
period leading in 31 of them. But Faust's Our intensity was excellent. If we can build record is only 21-19-1. 
from this I think we'll be okay."

Although the defeat seemed devastating to most Irish fans, Faust somehow maintained The skeptics raised their eyebrows. Only the eternal optimism that he continues to time could prove Faust right. 

South Carolina 7 0 22-36 
0 17 9 6-32 
. Scoring Summary First Quarter ·nme sc ND SC-AIIen Mitchell I run 7:19 7 0 


· (Scott Hagler kick) 
Drive: 31 yards in five plays in I:SS. Second Quarter NO-Allen Pinkett 6 run·: 13:37 7 
(John Carney kick) Drive: 80 yards in 12 plays in S:04. 
NO-Mark Bavaro S pass from Steve Beuerlein S:OO 7 14 (John Carney kick) · Drive: 46 yards in six plays in I :22. 

SC-Kent Hagood 2 run 1:19 14 14 · (Scott Hagler kick) · Drive: 73 yards in nine plays in 3:41. NO-John Camey48 FG :04 14 17 Drive: 37 yards in six plays in I :19 • Third Quarter . No.....:John Carney 47 FG 11:41 14 20 Drive: 18 yards in five plays in 2:29 • NO-Steve Beuerlein 6 pass 8:05 14 
26. · from Allen Pinkett·:· . (Steve Beuerlein run failed) Drive: 14 yards in three plays in 1:12. Fourth Quarter · SC-Mike Hold I run 14:11 22 26 (Kent Hagood run). Drive: 73 yards in 15 plays in 6:SS. SC-Mike Hold 33 run·. ·.. 8:49 29 26 · · · (Scott Hagler kick) Drive: 75 yards in eight plays in 2:53. SC~Quinton Lewis 4 run. . . . . . 7:47 36 26 · (Scott Hagler kick) . · . · Drive: 17 yards in three plays in :44. NO-Allen Pinkett I run . . · . 4:28 36 32 (Steve Beuerlein pass failed) · Drive: 83 yards in nine plays in 3:20. A-::59,07S(c) · 
... re~m _Statistics 
sc ND 
First Downs· . 20 . 20. 
· · Rushing · IS II Passing 4 9 Penalty. I 0 
Rushing Attempts 62 . 44 Yards Rushing . 287 · 18s· Yards Lost Rushing . 36­

. 31 . ·Net Yards Rushing 256 149 .Net Yards Passing 266
. 81 .. 

· Passes Attempted IS 30' .· ..Passes Completed·,.:· s . 16 · Had Intercepted ·: · · 2' . 2 Total Offensive Plays. 77 74 .Total Net Yards 337 415 
Average Gain Pe·r Play 4.4 .5.6' Fumbles: Number-Lost 
.. 4-3 . 4-2 Penalties: Number-Yards '7-30 7-SO Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-3 2-0 Number of Punts-Yards· ·· 4-177

..· S-199 . Average Per Punt . · . .· 39.8 : 44.2. . Punt Returns: Number.....:..Yards 2-31.: 2-28 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 5-100 . 6-100 Third Down Conversions · 5-14. 6-14 
Individual Statistics South Carolina Ru5hlng· All. _Gain Lost Net TD Long Kent Hagood 16 93 4 89.. I 19 Mike Hold' · '17 79 68 2 . 33
II ·.. 
Thomas Dendy 8 29 3 26 ·0 II Allen Mitchell . 10 36 10 26 I 
12 Raymond Brown 7 28 3 25 0 10 Ira Hillary I II 0 II 0 11 
Carl Womble I 7 o· 7 0 7 
2 .
Quinton Lewis 4 0 4 I 4 
·Passing· Att.Comp. 1rit. ,Yards TD Long Allen Mitchell 6 ' 1· 1· IS· 0 IS Mike Hold 9 I 66
: 4 o. 31 

Pass Rec'elving No •. Yards TD Long . Chris·corley-·. I 31 0 31 Bill Bradshaw 
I ·. IS . 0 IS Quinton Lewis. I IS 0 IS Kent Hagood I 10 0 10 · Damiy Smith .. 1 10 0 10 
,Notre Dame Rushing Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Allen Pinkett 25 110 10 100 2 12 Chris Smith 11 62 10 · S2 . 0 14 Mark Brooks 2 5 0 5 0 5 
·Alonzo Jefferson 1 2 . 0 2 0 2 Steve Beuerlein s 6. 16 -10 0 
4 
Pmlng . · Alt. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Steve Beuerlein 29 15 2 260 I 42 Allen Pinkett I I 0 6 I 6 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Milt Jackson 
3 . 58 0 26 Ricky Gray. 3 49 0 2S Reggie Ward 2 81 0 42 Allen Pinkett 2 26 0 18 Mark Bavaro 2 11 I 6 Joe Howard I' 16 0 16 
.. 14

Tim Brown . 1 14 0 · Steve Beuerlein 1 6 I 
6· 
Chris Smith ·I s 0 5 


LSU 



Reprieve in Death Valley 
By KAREN CROAKE 
The week of the LSU game Irish tri­captains Mike Golic, Larry Williams and Joe Johnson paid head coach Gerry Faust an after-hours visit. 
Notre Dame had just dropped its third straight game at home-a frustrating 36-32 decision to South Carolina. Embarrassed owners of a 3-4 season mark, the Irish were headed for a stadium commonly referred to as Death Valley to play an unbeaten and sixth-ranked Tiger squad that was favored by as many as 10 points. 
Golic, Williams and Johnson were perplexed. The Irish had played well against South Carolina. They showed heart, determination, intensity and desire. They had done all the things they were supposed to do and had still lost. 
"It really hurt us to lose the South Carolina game, especially after it looked like we had it under control," said Faust in retrospect. "We simply hadn't played very well in the second hillf against Miami and against Air Force. But our young men came back and really put their hearts into the South Carolina game against a team that was unbeaten and ranked 11th. 
"I told the players that if ·they kept playing with that kind of intensity, then the ball was bound to start bouncing their way. 
"I knew we would beat LSU." 

Faust and his troops rolled into Baton Rouge like a Sherman tank, crushing whatever obstacle got in its way. The Irish stunned the football world with a 30-22 upset of the bewildered Tigers who couldn't tell what hit them. And the game really wasn't as close as the score indicated. Notre Dame dominated LSU with a nearly flawless ball-control offense and spirited defense. The fans in Tiger Stadium and the ABC television audience watching at home were shocked. 
"You've got to give the players a lot of credit," bubbled Faust after the game. . "Winning in this place, against an unde­feated team, is a real compliment to the kids. These kids work hard, and they don't quit. They'd haye quit a long time before 
:~~-t'f-/:!~{· .. ·:;)>-. 
.~;i! 
ihe first quarter with everything said this year. They're just strong kids, and I'm a strong guy. I'll last, I'll tell you that." 
How did the Irish perform this gridiron miracle in hot, muggy weather before an ugly mob chanting "Tiger bait" at the top of its noisy collective lungs? 
Well, tailback Allen Pinkett enjoyed his biggest and best day of the season, scoring a pair of touchdowns and rushing for 162 yards on 40 carries. 
Quarterback Steve Beuerlein completed 16 of 23 passes for 168 yards. Kicker John Carney booted field goals of 44, 37 and 34 yards. 
The Notre Dame defense held LSU to 118 yards rushing, its lowest output of the season. 
And, according to first-year Tiger coach Bill Arnsparger, "Notre Dame dominated us pretty good after the first quarter. They dominated along the line of scrimmage. They dominated the defensive line of scrimmage, too." 
But it took the Irish awhile to get their 

Quarterback Steve Beuerlein fires as Allen Pinkett flares and Mark Brooks blocks. 

Mike Gann and Mike Golic make sure Jeff Wickersham doesn't have an easy time releasing the football. 
gameplan going. From the looks of things on the first Notre Dame possession, the Irish appeared headed for another devastat­ing defeat. 
On his second carry of the game, Pinkett fumbled on the Irish 48-yard line, and linebacker Gregg Dubroc pounced on it for the Tigers. · 
Quarterback Jeff Wickersham quickly went about his business. He hit split end Eric Martin with a 22-yard ·pass and then hooked up with tailback Garry James for 18 yards. Then running back Dalton Hilliard, who ranks number two.on the all­time rushing list at LSU, took matters into his hands. After gaining five yards on two carries, he caught a three-yard pass from Wickersham for the touchdown. Juan Betanzos' PAT gave the Tigers a 7-0 lead. 
Then on the first play after the ensuing kickoff, freshman cornerback Kevin Guidry picked off a Beuerlein interception and returned to the Notre Dame 28-yard line. Death Valley was rocking. The Irish looked like a tasty afternoon snack for the hungry Tigers who were licking their chops. 
But strange things started happening. On third down and three, nickel back Hiawatha Francisco nailed James for no gain on the sweep. LSU had to settle for a 38-yard field goal attempt, and Betanzos' kick missed. 
The Irish breathed new life. Beuerlein, 
''We just had some 
· ·fun. We didn't listen to 
,what LSU said. They 
. called ·us· 
·slow· and fat. We knew · 
·the.y'c;l be· 
kind of quick. But we 
· didn't 
want that quickness 
to bother us.. , 9. : 
-Larry. Williaf!ls 

who was four-for-four for 52 yards, engineered a 79-yard drive in nine plays that culminated in a one-yard touchdown dash by Pinkett. Carney's kick knotted the score. 
Betanzos missed another field goal-this one from 48 yards out-and then Wick­ersham was sacked twice in a row by Jerry Weinle and Wally Kleine. 
The Irish began to roar. 

Carney's 44-yard field goal put the Irish ahead 10-7. A few minutes later, Notre Dame added another touchdown as Allen Pinkett leaped oyer the goal line from the two. Carney's kick made it 17-7. 
"We just had some fun," said Williams, one of the big, beefy offensive linemen who cleared a path for Pinkett most of the afternoon. "We didn't listen to what LSU said. They called us slow and fat. We knew they'd be kind of quick. But we didn't want that quickness to bother us." 
The Tigers really didn't have much of a chance to flash their speed. From the moment LSU scored its first touchdown until less than two minutes to play in the game, Notre Dame outscored LSU 30-7, ran 82 plays to the Tigers' 50, chalked up 352 yards to LSU's 213 and allowed the high-powered Tiger offense to run a mere 14 plays from scrimmmage in the second and third quarters. 
Notre Dame added another field goal in the third quarter. Carney capped a 66-yard scoring drive with a 37-yard kick to increase the lead to 20-7. 


But the Irish let the Tigers back into the game. Beuerlein's second interception gave LSU possession on its own 31-yard line. On the second play from scrimmage, Hilliard broke loose for a 66-yard touch­down run. Betanzos' kick brought the Tigers back to within striking distance at 20-14. 
Although the Irish have displayed a knack for letting victory slip through their fingers in the fourth quarter, this time they straightened up. But it wasn't easy. 

Thanks to center Mike Kelley's drenched pants from perspiration, Beuerlein couldn't l hang on to the football and fumbled two 
>·-1 
snaps. 

~-l.; "When Mike would bring the ball up into Steve's hand, it was squeezing like a sponge," said offensive coordinator Ron Hudson, trying to keep a straight face. 
Reserve tackle Marty Roddy gallantly gave up his pants in front of 78,033 strangers for the cause. 
With that problem solved, the Irish tacked on another Carney field goal from 34 yards to move ahead 23-14. 
The Tigers threatened again and moved to the Irish 28-yard line before linebacker Mike Larkin intercepted a Wickersham pass-the first theft of his injury-plagued career-to kill the drive. 
"I was just keying on the one remaining back, and Mike Gann got great pressure on him," said Larkin. "The defensive line made a big difference. LSU is a good pass­blocking team. Gann even said it-was the best he's ever faced and that included Pitt and Bill Fralic." 

§ With less than a minute remaining, the ~ Irish got some insurance with a final ~ touchdown. 'Mark Brooks hulled his way z over the goal line from the three~yard line. ~ Carney was again perfect on the PAT and 
the Irish were in the driver's seat, 30-14. 
Wickersham, who finished the afternoon with 19 completions in 27 attempts for 213 yards, threw up a "Hail,-Mary" pass as time was running out. Flanker Rogie Magee picked it out of the crowd for a 50;_ yard touchdown. Wickersham connected with Herman Fontenot for the two-point conversion~ but it was too late as Notre Dame came away with the 30-22 upset win. 
"This is the kind of football we felt the team was capable of playing all year long," said Beuerlein. "This shows we can play with anybody in the nation, which is something we knew all along." 
Thanks to a one-back formation and another two-back set, both of which utilize two tight ends, the Irish offense racked up 
202 yards rushing, the most since a 212-. yard effort early in the year against Colorado. 

Q "When we used the one-back, it made ~ them play a basic 50 defense," explained ffi Hudson. "We just tried to keep them off ~ their game and just run at them physically." ~ "We" really spells A-1-1-e-n-P-i-n-k-e-t-t. 

. ".----; . ~· . . . -. . . . . . -. . .

And the 5-9, 183-pound junior earned every one of his 162 yards. 
"I'll do whatever it takes," said the Irish workaholic who tied Phil Carter for the Irish record for most carries in a game. "Our number-one goal was to get on track. We were looking at this game as a real challenge in this rowdy stadium and the odds against us. We don't back away from a challenge. 
"I think we got off the ball well on dry ground. The linemen were able to sustain their blocks and churn their feet­something they weren't able to do the last few games because of the rain." 
The linemen accepted Pinkett's praise with ease. 
"I think we did pretty well for a bunch of slow, fat guys," said guard Tim Scannell. "When we're able to get a rhythm going and eliminate our errors, we're fine." 
Defensively, the Irish held the Tigers to 331 yards total offense, but 99 of those yards came in the first quarter and another 66 came on a single play. 
"Notre Dame reduced it to pound for 

' 
pound," said Tiger offensive line coach Pete Manguarian. "How many teams have gotten to us with three linemen? Nobody. But you take three of their people with their talent and it's just ... Go! They're that good." 
Notre Dame's victory marked the first time in 1984 that the Irish had beaten a team with a winning record. 
"Two things pulled it out," said Pinkett. "One was pride. We just wouldn't lie down; it's too easy to quit. The other was poise. 
"It makes you think though of how much more we could have done without the errors." 
The Irish, who a week ago were burying dreams of a bowl bid, had ventured into Death Valley and emerged rejuvenated. Was it just a temporary reprieve from the heartaches and disappointments of the last few weeks or would this Irish team-one that displayed consistency, intensity and talent-last through the final three games of the season? Only Faust and his players knew for sure. 
Q 

cz:: 
<
cz:: 
l.:l 
z ~ 
.0 
cz:: 
Notre Dame 7 10 10-30 
LSU . 7 0 7 8-22 

Scoring Summary First Quarter Time NO LSU LSU-Dalton Hilliard 3 pass 10:.56 0 7 
from Jeff Wickersham (Juan Betanzos kick) Drive: 48 yards in five plays in 1:41 following Gregg Dubroc recovery of Notre Dame fumble 

NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run 5:30 
7 (John Carney kick) Drive: 79 yards in nine: plays in 3:.54 following LSU missed field-goal at­tempt 

.second Quarter 
NO-John Carney 44 FG 8:20 10 7 Drive: 37 yards in 12 plays in .5:4.5 following LSU punt 
NO-Allen Pinkett 2 run :28 17 
7 (John Carney kick) Drive: 48 yards .in 11 P!ays in4:.51 following LSU punt 

Third Quarter 
NO-John Carney 37 FG : . NA 20 7 Drive: 60 yards in 14 plays following LSU kickoff . 
LSU-'Dalton Hilliard 66 run NA 20 14 (Juan Betanzos kick) 
·Drive: 69 yards in two plays following Norman Jefferson interception of Notre Dame pass 

Fourth Quarter 
NO-John Carney 34 FG NA 23 14 Drive: 76 yards in 1.5 plays following LSU kickoff · · 
NO.:.. Mark Brooks 3 run . NA 30 14 (John Carney kick) . Drive: 28 yards In eight plays following LSU loss of ball on downs 
LSU-Rogie Magee SO pt>.ss NA 30 22. from Jeff Wickersham (Herman Fontenot pass . from Jeff Wickersham) Drive: 70 yards in four plays following Notre Dame kickoff 
· A-78,033(c) 
Team Statistics NO 

LSU. First Downs 2S 
IS. Rushing 12 S· Passing 12 9 · Penalty · ... I 1 Rushing Attempts 58 23 Yards Gained Rushing 229 ' 1.52 Yards Lost Rushing 27 34 Net Yards Rushing ~ . 202 118. -:Net Yards Passing ... 168 •.. 213: Passes Attempted '23 27 Passes Completed . 16 19' 
. 2

· Had Intercepted 1' ·Total Offensive Plays · 81 . so. Total Net Yards 370 331 ·.. Average Gain Per Play . 4 • .57 
. ,· 6.6i . 

·Return Yards · 43 Fumbles: Number-Lost . 4-1 ·1-0: Penalties: Number-Yards .. 7-62 s-3s:·. 
.Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-6 2-1 Number of Punts-Yards· 2-83 4~183 ·. Average Per Punt . 41 •.5 
. 4.5.8 . 

Punt Returns: Number-Yards . 4-37 1-2 ·Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards . 2-27 244. :Third Down Conversions 12-18 3-10: ·sacks By 3-31 '2~9' 
· Individual Statistics 

Notre Dame. Riuhing Alt. Gain Lost Net TO Lring_ Allen Pinkett 40· 166 4 162.' .2 10: 
·Steve· Beuerlcin 6 6 23 '-17 o· 
. 4'. ·Mark Brooks· .2 6 0 6 1 3~ Chris Smith· 9 47 .0 0 8
47. Lester Flemons 1 4 0 4 o· 
4:. 

·. Passing : . . Att. Comp. Int. ·Yards. TD Lo.nlt, .Stc:Ve Beuerlein 23 '16 2 168 0 . 18.· · PIW Receiving .. . No. Yards · TD ·Long· .~ Ricky Gray· 4 3.5. Jo u. . Mark' Bavaro . 3 30 o._·w· Milt' Jackson 2 28 0 18·
.I 

. Joel Williams 12 0 J2•' Reggie Ward 1 13 0 .. 13. :;Tim Brown· · 2 24 
g.. -~i~

·Joe Howard I 13 Allen Pinkett' · 2 13 0 '7.. · 
LSU Rushing Att. -Gain Lost ·.Net· TD Long~: ·Dalton Hilliard 13 121 3 118 1:· 66 '·Jeff Wickersham 4 . .8 31 __:.23 0·' 8. . :aarr}o James s IS 0 IS 0 7 Herman Fontenot 1 s· 0 8. 0 . a··,· ~Passing Att•.Cmrip. Int. Yards TO Long·. Jeff Wickersham · 27 '·'19 I 213 2 :so 
Pass. Receiving No. Yards TD. Long.': ·:Dalton Hilliard . 6 · 4S 1 ' .19 ­·Eric Martin .. 2 42 0 22­
-Garry James.· 3 .1.5 0 ·.18 ·Mitch Andrews ' 4 18 0 7'· 'Herman Fontenot I ' 28 ·o 28 :Garland Batiste I s 0 . s' 
Craig Rathjen' · I 10 0' 10'' 
I

Rogie Magee I . so . ·.50 

.----~--------------------------------------­
Navy 

Bouncing off the Decks 
By LAURA LEE 
Was Notre Dame's football success the previous Saturday for real or only a mirage? 
Had the Irish, coming off an impressive handling of LSU-the nation's sixth-ranked team-truly come of age? 
Had Gerry Faust's eternal optimism begun to pay off after the mid-year Irish slump? 
Was Notre Dame's inspired performance in Baton Rouge a legitimate barometer of the pride of this Irish team? 
Nearly 62,000 fans tuned in to Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands to find out. 
For the first 56 minutes of the Navy contest the LSU win looked like a fluke. The Irish reverted back to the turnovers, the missed assignments and the penalties that had thwarted their efforts most of October. Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein completed only seven of his first 19 passes and had four interceptions. His teammates fumbled away two other balls. They committed crucial mental errors in the form of penalties and blown assignments. 
The offense sputtered and lost steam as it entered Navy territory. The defense permitted gritty Navy backs to slip through its grasp and Navy quarterback Bill Byrne kept the Notre Dame secondary off balance most of the afternoon. 
This Navy football team typified what the academy teams represent-intelligence, toughness, and never-say-die manner. They had been waiting decades to break a 20­year losing streak against the Irish. 
The Middies and all onlookers believed they had accomplished the feat when Navy's Todd Solomon kicked a 32-yard field goal for a 17-7 lead with only 4:02 left in the contest. 
On the play, Notre Dame was called for offsides, but Navy coach Gary Tranquill told his players to decline the penalty. "I thought 17 points looked pretty good at the time," he said. "We were playing good defense. I wanted points on the board. We had a 17-7 lead, and I thought that would suffice." 
There wasn't a person watching who would have second-guessed Tranquil!. The Irish had turned the ball over six times, and two interceptions had led directly to Navy scores. It hadn't been one of Notre Dame's more impressive days. 
"Three of the four interceptions were just me getting greedy," explained Beuerlein. "I was trying to get the ball into the receiver. I wasn't reading the defenses too well. They did a good job taking away things we wanted to do. 
"I don't know what the problem was," he continued. '~ll I know is that I would drop back sometimes and not see anyone open. 


:. 1 
:: 
But it is still my responsibility not to throw the football." 
'i
The first Navy score came as a direct 
i
result of an Irish miscue in the second quarter. This time it was tailback Lester . ' Flemons who fumbled away a first-and-1 0 '; carry at Notre Dame's own 30-yard line and Navy cornerback Mike Metzger jumped on the loose ball. Following an incomplete pass Notre Dame committed yet another mental mistake-receiving a IS­yard penalty for roughing the passer. 
After a two-yard loss, Byrne hooked up with teammate John Lobb at the Notre· Dame six-yard line-then fullback John Berner proceeded to bull his way for the five-yard touchdown on the next play. The Irish attempted to substitute four new goal­line defenders, but they failed to get set in time on the scoring play. 
6'I 
don't know .what 
.the problem was. 
All I know is that· 
I would drop back 
sometimes and not 
see anyone open. 
· But· it is s~ill _my 
responsibility 
not to ~throw 
the football.,, 
.. 
-Steve Beuerlein 

After intermission Navy looked fresh and revitalized, while the Irish continued their comedy of errors. On the fourth play of the second half Beuerlein again hooked up with a Navy defender. Navy then drove 53 yards in eight plays to take the lead. The Middies scored on a trick play called "Screwball" in which reserve quarterback Joe Lauletta lined up at tailback, took the snap and threw to Byrne, who was an easy target for a two-yard touchdown pass. By the end of the third quarter the Middies controlled both the momentum and the scoreboard with a 14-7 lead. 
The Irish had been first to jump on the scoreboard, showing a command perform­ance. On their first possession they looked precise and efficient, like the team Irish fans had been promised. An impressive IS­play drive resulted in a touchdown as Irish tailback Allen Pinkett dove into the end zone for the game's first score. 


II 
II 
l 
il 
~ 
i l 

~ 
~­
~ 
~ 
..:l 
<
w 
z Somewhere at the bottom of this pile of celebrating Irish is kicker John Carney, whose 44-yard field goal handed Notre Dame its last­
. ~--·" 
second victory over Navy. 
During the drive, Beuerlein completed a pair of passes to tight end Mark Bavaro which brought the ball down to the Navy 21-yard line. After failing to pick up the first down, the Irish lined up in field goal position, apparently ready to settle for three. But Faust did not want to let the opportunity escape. Holder Mike Viracola shoveled an underhand pass to Chris Smith who took it over the right side for a first down at the Navy 10. · 
The gamble paid off. Four plays later Pinkett dove for the touchdown, putting the Irish into the lead at 7-0. The first Irish drive looke~ as if they would not waste any time in defeating the Midshipmen. 
However, the precision didn't last. Notre Dame stopped adding numbers to the scoreboard. The second and third quarters dragged on with little offensive action from the Irish contingent. Their possessions ended with punts, fumbles or interceptions. 
"We were a hurtin' unit," said offensive guard Larry Williams. "Many of our original starters were out and others were 
40 
playing in pain beneath their abilities and that limited the performance of the team." 

"Maybe we just weren't as intense as we should have been at the start," said Pinkett · who rushed for 165 yards on 37 carries. 
Navy's defense seemed to contol the ball while Notre Dame's defense also was lacking in motivation. ... 
"I didn't think the defense played with very much enthusiasm," admitted Irish linebacker Mike Larkin. 

With five minutes left in the opening half John Carney missed his longest fiel,d goal attempt of the season from 50 yards. Things looked bleak for the Irish and a victory appeared almost out of the question. Solomon's 32-yard field goal and the ensuing decision by Tranquill not to accept the penalty and settle for the three points looked to be a wise decision. A comeback by the Irish seemed improbable. 
"It would have been easy to give up and say the heck with it," said Pinkett. "This team has a lot of pride and we are not ready to give up. I think it showed in the game with the poise we showed." 
With four minutes left in the game Navy shifted to a prevent defense. That only made it easier for Beuerlein to pump the Irish back into action. He passed Notre Dame through an eight-play, 83-yard touchdown drive. Three straight passes went to split end Tim Brown who covered 59 yards in 29-; 15-; and 15-yard gains. Brown's third reception gave the Irish a first down on the one-yard line. Pinkett finished the drive by flying over the goal line to score his second touchdown of the game. 
The Irish continued their success with a two-point conversion. Beuerlein, under pressure, tossed a pass to Joe Howard in the end zone. This Irish march required only 1:45, leaving 2: 15 on the clock with the Mids now leading 17-15. 
The Irish defense did its job, forcing Navy to punt after three plays. There was controversy on the fourth play when Tranquill accused Notre Dame of roughing kicl_(er Mark Colby. 





·''It
was a great. _ 
comeback, but we · · rhade a lot of mistakes.­.What we·__ get out of this is knowing that if we don't give up; things like this 
.can -happen.,, 
·-Mike Golie 

~'---....,I
:· 

The Fighting Irish were anxious to get 
the ball in play with one minute remaining, 
no timeouts left and a field goal away from 
a win. Beuerlein still had the touch, 
completing three straight passes, the last 
one a 29-yard screen toss to Pinkett which 
left the Irish in field-goal range. 
With 18 seconds remaining on the clock, 
the Irish didn't want to take any chances. 
They sent Carney in to kick the winning 
field goal. The Irish comeback was 
complete. 
"It was a great comeback, but we made a 
lot of mistakes," said linebacker Mike 
Golic. "What we get out of this is knowing 
that if we don't give up~ things like this can 
happen." 
Even Faust agreed it was a good comeback: 
"Our players and our staff hung in there. We didn't get too rattled even though everything was going wrong. It wasn't the prettiest game, but it was a win." 
Looking back at the hard-fought contest, senior offensive guard Larry Williams recalled, "The last three minutes of the game characterized this football team and Gerry Faust. Despite our turnovers, we were able to reach down inside and realize the task in front of us with an honestly optimistic outlook." · Faust's persistent optimism and the team's fighting attitude carried the Irish through to another victory over Navy. 
The luck of the Irish? 
It's alive and well. 
c.. 
~ 
t::l 
~ 
...:l 
~ 
z 

Notre Dame 7 0 0 11-18 
Navy 0 7 3-17 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time NONA NO-Allen Pinkett I run 5:56 7 0 
(John Carney kick) · Drive: 65 yards in IS plays in 6:49 following Navy punt 
Second Quarter 
NA-John Barner 6 run 10:23 7 7 (Todd Solomon kick) Drive: 30 yards in five plays in :59 following Tom. Metzger recovery of Notre Dame fumble 
Third Quarter 
NA-Bill Byrne 2 pass 9:59 7. 14 from Joe Lauletta (Todd Solomon kick) . Drive: 53 yards in· eight plays in 3:08 following Steve Brady interception of Notre Dame pass · · 
Fourth Quarter · 
NA-Todd Solomon 32 FG 4:02 7 17 Drive: Six yards in three plays in 2:01 following Eric Fudge interception of Notre Dame pass 
NO-Allen Pinkett I run 2:17 IS 17 (Joe Howard pass from .Steve · Beuerlein) · . · · · Drive: 83 yards in nine plays in I :45 following Navy kickoff 
NO-John Carney 44 FG .. · . :14 18 17 · Drive: 56 yards in fi\'e . plays in :46 following Navy punt A-61,795 
Team Statistics. ND-NA First Downs 13
23 . Rushing 11 7 Passing 12 s Penalty 0 .I Rushing Attempts ss 38 Yards Gained Rushing 219 142 Yards Lost Rushing 35 28 Net Yards Rushing 184 . 114 Net Yards Passing 210 91 
Passes Attempted . 30 . 27 Passes Completed 14
.16 Had Intercepted. 4 .2 Total Offensive Plays 85. 65. Total Net Yards · 394 205 Average Gain Per Play 4.6 3.2 Return Yards . . . . 40 44 Fumbles: Number-Lost: -'3·2 1..() Penalties: Number..:.:. Yards ·. 345 . . 3-20 Interceptions: Number..:.. Yards 2-7 
.. 4-38 Number of Punts-'-Yards · ...3-116-9-334 Average Per Punt ·· -. 38.7 37.1 Punt Returns: Number.:... Yards· : 6-33 1-6 Kickoff Returns: Number.:... Yards ' 4-46 2-17 Possession Time· :·: . , · 33:31 26:29' Third-Down Conversions 10-21 .. 3-16 Sacks By 1·15 4~24. 
lndlvlduai Statistics : Notre Dame , : .. . Rushing All. Gain Lost Nd. TD Long Allen Pinkett 37 . 169 4 165 2 12 
·s ..

Chris Smith 22 0 22 ·o 6 Mark Brooks 2. ·-7 0 7 ·o. 6 Steve Beuerlein 10 . 21 .29' -8 0 9 Lester Flemons I ....:.:.o·-2 -2 0 :..;_2.. 
·· Passhii. · Aii. camp. lnt:· Yards': TO Long Steve Beuerlein -29 ,cIS 4 209 :· 0 29 
.. ~fike Viracola .I·· I 0 I I Pass Rreelvlng · No. Yards TO Long Allen Pinkett · 3 '44 0 29 Tim Brown·t 3 59 0 29 
· Ricky Gray ·· 3 . 38 '. 0 .18 . Joe Howard 33 19
• 2 . 0 ·Mark Bavaro 2 25. .0 IS Chris Smitti 2 6 0 s Joel Williams . :: -.I s 0 : s 
-·. ·.; ~ ·~·: -.Navy 

. Rushing AU. : Gain· Lost · · Net TO Long Rich Clouse 14 57~ · 1 · · 56 0 :. IS John Berner· · 11 . 47 ... 4 43 : I. 18 Mike Smith '4-· 9 · -o 9 o· ·7 Chuck Smith 1 o .. o· o ·o, .o Bill Byrne 2 ; S . IS · ;.,..10 . 0 S. Bob Misch ·J. ·-7. o 7-.o · 4 ·Tony. Hollinger· · 2 ->.-·7-8 ..,.;.1 o· ·1. Chris Weiler. : .. I. 10 ·, 0 10 .0 10 
'Passing· . Att. ·_ Co~p·•. Int•.. Yards· TO . Long . 
. Bill Byrne : .. 19-. 11 ..:I 85 0 23 Bob Misch ·6 ·2 ·1 ··4:·.0. S John Lobb. 
r :.~-g .g,.,::~. ·. g

Joe Lauletta Pass Rec:ci\·Jng 
No: . Yards TD ·Long Mark Stevens ·.. I .· 8.· 0 .. 8 · Chris Weiler 
4. . 47 0 .. 23 Tony Hollinger I · S' 0. . S ·John Lobb I ·11 0.11 :Rich Clouse . . . I ' 6 .. ~ 0 .. 6 
·Mike Smith.:· I_: . -'-2. .0 .....:2 John Sniffen 
:2. . 11 . 0 . 6. 

· John Berner ·. 
• BiU Byrne :~ ·.r t-.1 
·Mark Long >t' .;_I· 0 ..;_I 


Penn State 
Just What the Doctor Ordered 
By EDDIE WHITE 
Gerry Faust had been saying all along that once his Irish football squad regained its health, it would rank among the nation's best. Notre Dame had been plagued by injuries throughout the '84 campaign and the Irish head coach couldn't wait to see a healthy gold and blue take the field. 
Some of even the most dedicated Irish followers were skeptical of Faust's impressions. 
But he did have one believer. In Pennsyl­vania of all places. Nittany Lion head coach Joe Paterno echoed Faust's senti­ments throughout the week prior to the Notre Dame-Penn State clash. 
"I'm afraid of Notre Dame," Paterno offered, "because, for the first time in a long while, they're healthy. And I don't care what their record is, or what they've done so far this year. They have great players, a good coaching staff and it's a very tough place to play football. 
·~nd when they're healthy, they're as good as any team in the country~" Let the record show Paterno knew what he was talking about. 
Notre Dame played maybe the best overall game during the Gerry Faust era and totally destroyed Penn State, winning 44-7 before another sold-out crowd at Notre Dame Stadium and tying the second­highest point total ever recorded against a Paterno-coached team. 
"I don't think anyone has ever played a better half against us in all my years at Penn State," was the first thing Paterno said in the postgame interview. 
The first half. It was the story, the game, the end-for Penn State. 
The Irish scored on four of their first five drives of the afternoon to take an insur­mountable 31-7 advantage over the Lions, who entered the game 6-3 coming off a key win over eventual Cotton Bowl champ Boston College. Those Penn State faithful who had made the long trip along Route 80 from State College could have gotten a head start home by leaving at halftime. · This one was over at intermission. 

"We were healthy for the first time this year," was the first thing Faust had to say and I have really believed in them. main man for the Irish as he gained 189 in his postgame meeting with the press. "It showed when we played so well in yards on 34 carries and scored four "The week off (the Irish hadn't played the loss to South Carolina and again in the touchdowns. He also added a 36-yard pass since a win over Navy at the Meadowlands win at LSU," added Faust, now 3-0 this reception.. two weeks before) really helped us. We feel November after a 3-9 slate in that month In three games versus the Lions, Pinkett we're becoming'a better football team as during the previous three seasons. has rushed 89 times for 476 yards and nine the season goes along. The players have Allen Pinkett, who seems to· have had a touchdowns-not including a 93-yard shown a lot of character and confidence career playing against Penn State, was the kickoff return for a score as a freshman. 

"I think I really love to play against Penn State because I almost went to school there," offered the Irish junior. "I have the greatest respect for Penn State, its players and Coach Paterno. That's probably why I get so highly motivated. When you beat Penn State, you've really beaten somebody. 
''And Penn State is important because the last three years we seemed to beat them on the field, but we came up short on the scoreboard," added Pinkett noting Irish defeats (24-21, 24-14, 34-30) to the Lions over the past three seasons. "We're tired of saying we're the better team and not showing it." 
The overtime work of 34 carries didn't seem to bother Notre Dame's All­American. "Ifthat's what is expected of me by the coaches, that's what I'll do. The last four weeks I've carried the ball over 30 times and apparently it has helped," noted Pinkett, lookjng at Notre Dame's 3-1 record. "I'm pretty durable because I've lifted weights since the eighth grade. I'm only 180 pounds, but it's pretty solid." 
Paterno agreed, "That Pinkett is something else. I'm glad we only have to face him one more year. He seems to go wild against us." 
While Pinkett was in charge of the ground attack, sophomore quarterback Steve Beuerlein enjoyed one of his most successful afternoons in an Irish uniform, passing for a career-high 267 yards on 20 of 28 attempts. . 
"I feel happiest when I'm consistent," explained the Irish signalcaller. ''And I felt I was pretty consistent today." On Notre Dame's successful scoring drives early in the game, Beuerlein commented, "That's the top goal we could set for ourselves. When you're doing that, things go well. We told ourselves, 'Let's keep it going and we can win this one.' 
"We had been snakebitten the last few years against Penn State and it. was time for us to stand up and get a win. There's no doubt in my mind that we're that type of football team. When our offensive line does a great job like it did today, every phase of the running game works. 
"Beating a team like Penn State lets us know we can play with the top teams in the country," added Beuerlein. 
Although the score showed a rout, Irish senior center Mike Kelley said the afternoon was anything but a picnic. "Those Penn State linemen are tough," said the All-America choice. "Even when they were down by a lot of points, they kept on coming. 
"I think this win gives us a shot in the arm. We have to carry this over to USC and see what happens then. This win was special for the seniors because of the three previous close losses to Penn State. When you talk first-class football in the East, you talk about Penn State.'' 
Irish fans got a hint of things to come when Notre Dame took the opening kickoff and marched 77 yards in 17 plays in an impressive 8:18 for the afternoon's first 


Cl 
z 
0 
~ 
~ 
0 ~ 
...., 

score. Pinkett scooted in through the left side for his 38th career touchdown-and when John Carney's PAT sailed through the uprights, the Irish led 7-0. 
No sooner could you say John Cappelletti (Penn State's Reisman Trophy winner who was in the stands for this game), then the Lions hit the board. Tony Mumford scored from two yards out at the 3:02 mark to cap an eight-play, 90-yard march. Nick Gancitano's PAT knotted the score at 7-7. 
"It puts kind of a scare in you when the other team answers back that quickly," said Beuerlein. "I thought then it was going to be one of those back-and-forth gaines until our second drive. Then, there was no doubt · in my mind." 
As if its first drive wasn't impressive enough, Notre Dame repeated that performance with a brilljant 13-play, SO­yard march in 5:14 following Penn State's score. Beuerlein and Pinkett again led the charge. Beuerlein hit on four of seven passes for 31 yards while Pinkett carried the ball five times for 38 yards, including the last play-a 17-yard scamper up the middle. 
With 9:15 left in the first half, one team finally was stopped from scoring for the first time all afternoon. Following the Penn State punt, the Irish took over on their own 24-yard line. After only two plays (a Mark Brooks nine-yard run and a Pinkett carry for one yard), Pinkett brought the Irish crowd to its feet with a dazzling 66-yard scoring run. Carney's boot gave the hosts a 21-7 advantage. 
"We call it a 28-goal line," sad Beuer­lein, describing Pinkett's scoring jaunt. "It's just a simple sweep with a guard pulling in front of him. He made some 
moves himself downfield that I'm sure 
everyone saw." 

"It was a perfect play, a team play; everybody did their job," was Pinkett's response. "I knew someone was gaining on me (Penn State roverback Mike Zordich), but I was going to make sure no one caught up to me." 
Pinkett knew his run would make Faust happy. "He' (Faust) gets kind of excited when we score," said Pinkett. "He likes those long touchdowns because it makes our offense look explosive." 

"I'll take any kind of touchdown, long or short," was Faust's reply. '~lien's run was perfect, it was a perfect play." 
Despite the early lead, the Irish defense didn't rest. 
"We had watched the offense drive the ball down the field and said 'Hey, we want to do our part too,' " said Irish defenseman Joe Johnson. "That's as close to a nerfect game as we've played since I've been here." 
Two plays after Pinkett's dash, junior Pat Ball age intercepted a Doug Strang aerial, giving the I_rish a first down at midfield with 7:28 remaining before halftime. Despite a .three-for-three performance by Beuerlein for 31 yards, Notre Dame's drive stalled at the 10-yard line and Ca~ney was forced to convert a 28-yard field goal for a 



24-7 Irish lead. 
After holding Penn State on four downs, the Irish took over for their final scoring drive of this bountiful first half. Senior Joe Howard returned a short Nittany Lion punt to the Penn State 44-yard line. 
From there, Beuerlein completed two passes (one to Tim Brown, one to Howard) for 46 yards to give the Irish a first down at the one. With :58 left before halftime, Pinkett sky-dived in for the score-his fourth of the afternoon. Carney, getting a season's worth workout in one afternoon, booted still another PAT and the Irish led 31-7 at intermission. 
Notre Dame's halftime stats were, simply, awesome. The Irish rolled up 362 yards total offense (186 on the ground, 176 through the air) while holding Penn State to 103 (71 passing and only 32 on the ground). D. J. Dozier, the Nittany Lions' talented running back, had only 27 yards rushing at the half while Pinkett had 161 and four scores. 
...1 still thought we could come back after halftime," said Paterno. "They had had a great half and maybe were spent. If we could get our offense going we could 
get back in it." 
While the first two quarters saw the teams combine for 38 points, the only addition to the scoreboard in the third period was a 17-yard John Carney field goal with 1 :25 left. 
"We didn't get conservative in the second half," Faust said. "Their defense rose to the occasion. We played to a standstill." 
On the first drive of the fourth quarter, Carney picked up his 11th, 12th and 13th points of the afternoon with another field goal-this one from 47 yards out. 
The Irish didn't waste any time closing out the afternoon's scoring with an Alonzo Jefferson two-yard touchdown run on the 
next drive. Carney's fifth PAT of the game 
gave the Irish its final 44-7 margin. 
"We proved we're still winners," offered senior linebacker Mike Golic. "We don't give up. No matter what has happened this year, people can't say we quit. We just don't give up, no matter how tough things get. That was the biggest thing we got out of today." 
"I'm not worried about the past," added Kelley. "This puts everything back in order." 
"Notre Dame dominated us in every way," said Paterno. "Notre Dame played a great game and I hope Faust gets credit for it." Only twice before had a Paterno­coached team been beaten worse. UCLA defeated his first team 49-10 in 1966 and Nebraska downed the 1982 defending national champions 44-6 in the inaugural Kickoff Classic early in '83. 
"I don't think the score was indicative of how badly they beat us. We got manhan­dled by a team that was better prepared to play than we were today," Paterno added. "Nobody ever said there wouldn't be days like this. We'll just have to go home and start over again," said the Lion coach, ~ho would see his team lose to three struggling powers in '84-Alabama, Pittsburgh and Notre Dame. 
"Coach (Paterno) just told us to keep our heads up and shake it off,'' Zordich stated. "These kind of games happen, you just have to move on." 
It indeed was just one of those games, one of those days. And Paterno wasn't the only one who realized it. 
"Week to week, you're only as good as your last game." The man speaking was Gerry Faust. He knew USC was waiting in the wings. It was time to move on. 

· Hiawatha Francisco attempts to separate Dean DiMidio from· the football. 
Penn State o. 0 0--7 
Notre Dame 24 10-44 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND Ps· NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run 6:42 7 0 
·(John Carney kick) Drive: 77 yards in 17 plays in 8:18 following opening kickoff 
PS-Tony Mumford 2 run 3:02 7 (Nick Gancitano kick) Drive: 90 yards in eight plays in 3:40 following Notre Dame kickoff 
Second Quarter NO-Allen Pinkett 17 run 12:48 14 7 
(John Carney kick) 
Drive: 80 yards in 13 plays in 5:14 . following Penn State kickoff . NO-Allen Pinkett 66 run 
(John Carney kick)" Drive: 76 yards in three plays in 1:26 following Penn State punt 
NO-John Carney28 FG Drive: 40 yards in eight plays in 4:49 following Pat Ballage interception of Penn State pass 
NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run (John Carney kick) Drive: 44 yards in five plays in :56 following Penn State punt 
Third Quarter · · 
NO-John Carney 17 FG Drive: 24 ·yards in five plays in 2:44 following Penn State punt · 
Fourth Quarter 
ND-JohnCarney47 FG Drive: 33 yards in seven plays in 2:35 following Penn State punt 
ND-Alonzo Jefferson I run (John Carney kick) ·· · Drive: 37 yards in six plays in 2:44 following Rick DiBernardo recovery of 
8:09 . 2:39 . :58  21 24 31  7 7  
1:25  34  
12:46  37  7  
9:48 . 44  7  


Penn State fumble 
. A-:-59,075 . 
Team Statistics 

First Downs Rushing · Passing Penalty 
Rushing Attempts Yards Rushing -. Yards Lost Rushing Net Yards Rushing Net Yards Passing 
Passes Attempted Passes Completed Had Intercepted Total Offensive Plays 
Total Net Yards 
Average Gain" Per Play Fumbles: Number-Lost Penalties: Number-Yards Interceptions: Number-Yards NumberofPunts-Yards ­
Average Per Punt Punt Returns: Number-Yards Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 
Individual Statistics 

Penn State ·Rushing Att•.. Gain Lost ·D. J. Dozier 48 4
10. Steve Smith s 23 ·0 Doug Strang 3 18 0 Tony Mumford s II 0 
PS. ND 12 30 6 16 3 13 3. 1 36 60 147 298 36 22 Ill 276 ·S8 267 IS 29 s 20 2-I Sl 89 169 543 3.3 6.1 1-1 . 1·1. S-40 . 7-56 1-1 ·2-6 8-307. . 1-37 38.3 37.0 
1·14 6-40. 
7-149 . 2-43 
Net TD Long
44. 0 . 13 
23 . 
I II 18. : 0 7. 
11 I ·. s 

Kevin Woods 1 11 0· 11 0 11 Matt Knizner 3 17 7 10 0· lS Tim Manoa 2 8 I 7 0 8 · David Clark 1 2 0 2 0 2 John Shafer 6 9 24 . ....;.Js. 0 s Passing Att.-Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Doug Strang 4 I 1" 32 -·.o 32 
. John Shafer. 6. .I 1 -3 0 -3 · Matt Knizner . s 3 0 29 0 14 
·Pass Receiving No. Yards To· Long Pete Giftopoulos '2 1S 0 9 Dean DiMidio : I 32 0· 32 George Alpert I 14 0 . 14 . Tim Manoa I ··~3 0 .;_3 
Notre Dame Rushing Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Allen Pinkett •34 195 6 189 .4 66 Chris Smith · s 39 0 39 0 IS Alonzo Jefferson. s 17 0 17. I 10
0 ·.

Tim Brown I" ·14 14 0 14 Mark Brooks 1 9 o· 9• 0 9 Lester Flemons 4· s 1 4 0 3 Frank Starns . 2 3 0 3 0 •2 Scott Grooms 2 0 2 0 2
"I. Jan DeHueck 1 1 0 ·. 0 1
. 1. 

Jeff O'Neill 1 1 0 I· 0 "I 
Steve Beuerlein s 12 IS -3 0 8 Passing. Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Steve Beuerlein 28 20 1 267 0 36 
Q Scott Grooms I 0 0 0 0 0 
z 

Pass Recel'l'lng · No. Yards TD Long
0 s . .. 18
Tim Brown 60 0 
~ 
Milt Jackson 4 41 0 13 Joe Howard 3 Sl 0 29 C:::i Mark Bavaro 3 44 0 22 w Chris Smith· 2 11 0 7 0 Allen Pinkett I 36 0 36
..., 

Reggi\;Ward I 16 .0 16 Ricky_ ray . 1 8 0 8 
usc 


An Old-Fashioned Mud Song 
By LARRY WILLIAMS 
Think back to the days of old-time football-to a time before the invention of artificial turf, tailored unifonns and white shoes. 
Remember Vince Lombardi, the Detroit Lions and Dick Butkus. 
Go back to a time when two courageous lines battled for pride and a few precious yards, feet and inches. Go back to a time when blood flowed and sweat poured without any regards for the elements. This is the type of football the legends from which were made. 
The setting for the 56th renewal of college football's oldest intersectional rivalry couldn't have fit that mold any better. It was a dreary day for the weather­man and the weak of heart, but for the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame it was a day when the weather wouldn't matter. 
Although there was no national champi­onship on the line, Ted Tollner's Trojans looked to avenge a manhandling they received the previous year in South Bend and to raise their record to 9-2 mark on their way to a Rose Bowl meeting with Ohio State. Gerry Faust's Irish, scrapping their way back from a dismal mid-year slump, sought to snap an 18-year losing jinx at the Los Angeles Coliseum. · 
The Irish knew a victory would give them a 7-4 record and send them to Honolulu, Hawaii, for the Aloha Bowl. 
A loss would send them back to the Midwest for the holidays. 
It was a matter of pride. 
A crowd of 66,342 and a national television audience saw usually-sunny Southern California turn into a muddy quagmire. By game's end jersey numbers were difficult to decipher. But the score­board clearly revealed that the Irish had triumphed 19-7. It proved to be an old­fashioned type football contest of field position and fumbles. 
Although Notre Dame was outgained in total yardage 346-242, it managed to overcome factors that had devastated the Irish early in the season. One of those factors was turnovers-in the form of fumbled exchanges, interceptions and bobbled balls. For a pleasant change, it was their foes who were the ones giving the ball away. USC committed six of those mortal sins. 
"People had lived on our mistakes all year," figured Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkett. "Finally, it was our turn." 


"There's not much to say. They (Notre Dame) were able to play under the conditions more effectively," said Tollner. "I think we were even in all other phases of the game. Both teams were ready to play and played hard, but they were able to create field position with turnovers." 
All the Irish points, except their first score which tied the game at 7-7, came as a result of Trojan miscues. USC quarter­back Tim Green and center Tom Cox gave their best impression of Laurel and Hardy, as numerous exchanges were muffed. 
''A couple of times I never touched the · ball," Green said, searching for an explanation. "I'm not pointing my finger at him (Cox) and he's not going to point it at me." 
Another factor that Notre Dame wanted to overcome was its characteristic second­half letdown. At 2:21 into the second half Wally Kleine pounced on a USC fumble which led to a 45-yard field goal by John Carney. It was an amazing effort by the sophomore placekicker who did a double clutch when the snap was bobbled. Then, moments later, Mike Larkin recovered another fumble and Carney again booted a 45-yard field goal. ·-Thaddck put Carney · · into the record books as the most accurate 

dThere~s not much to . sa~ . They (Notre Dame) were . able to play under the conditions more effectively.. . . -I think we were even · 
in all_other .phases of the_game. Both teams were ready to play. and played hard,.butthey were able to create field position· with · 
_turnovers.,, 
· -Ted.Tollner 


single-::season field-goal kicker (17 of 19 for 
a .895 average), but, more importantly, it gave the Irish a fairly comfortable 19-7 lead and the chance to play a conservative game the rest of the way. 
"We felt our defense would shut them down," said Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beuerlein. "We wanted to come out and score a few points quickly in the second half to get them down where they couldn't come back." 
"The weather dictated that we play it close to the vest," said offensive coordina­tor Ron Hudson. "We're up 13-7 and then Carney kicks those two great field goals to make it 19-7. Now you can become real conservative because it's a points game. They need two touchdowns to beat us." 
The strategy paid off as the Irish kept their cool and the ball. The majority of the second half amounted to two mammoth lines slugging it out in the mud. 
"I'm happy· for the players," Faust modestly proclaimed. "They really battled adversity this year. There was a time when eight or nine guys were hurt. And then we lost three straight in the rain at home. 
"I'll tell you, it took a lot of character to come back like we did (from a 3-4 record). They had a lot of darts thrown at them." 
A Mike Gann fumble recovery sends the Irish on their way in the third quarter as frustrated USC players and fans can only watch amidst the downpour. 


Steve Beuerlein's intended target appears to be a sea of umbrellas (above). Instead, Milt Jackson caught the ball and turned it into a key 37-yard pickup. Notre Dame's victory allowed an Irish head coach to leave the Coliseum field (below) with a smile on his face for the first time since 1966. · 

48 


~--..----------------------------------------------1 
At the game's outset, it appeared there might be more darts to throw. In the first quarter the Irish were only able to pick up two first downs as their three possessions resulted in two punts and an interception. They were saved on defense by a Mike Gann fumble recovery on USC's first possession and a Mike Griffin field-goal block on the third Trojan possession. 
With 11 :05 to play in the first half, USC's version of the famous student body right and student body left began to gain momentum. USC marched from its own 33-yard line with Fred Crutcher following his massive offensive line for gains of five and six yards. The drive also was fueled by timely Tim Green strikes of 15, 19 and 17 yards, bringing the Trojans to the Notre Dame three-yard line. From there Ryan Knight followed good line blocking into the end zone, capping an 11-play, 67-yard drive. 
It was then that the Irish were snapped out of their Southern California trance. On the very next possession Beuerlein, who completed only one of his first eight passes, connected with Milt Jackson for 10 yards, moving the Irish to their 34-yard line. On the following play Beuerlein took advantage of the USC defense which was overplaying the Notre Dame tendency to give the ball to the Pinkett. He lofted the ball over the linebackers and into t~ght end Mark Bavaro's hands f~r a 20-yard-pickup. Two plays later Jackson was again at the receiving end of a Beuerlein toss. This time Jackson took the six-yard toss and, with the help of Pinkett's block, cut back against the grain and raced down the sideline to the USC 11-yard line. On the next play 
rL-~:,.. ..~-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Beuerlein faked a rollout to his right and shoveled an underhand pass to Tim Brown who raced to the corner of the end zone for a touchdown. The extra point made it 7-7 with 6:47 remaining in the half. 
USC, determined to retake the lead, picked up two quick first downs on its next possession, but Crutcher was separated from the football by Irish safety Joe Johnson. Linebacker Rick DiBernardo caught the ball in the air and rambled seven yards to the USC 44-yard line. Four plays and 1 :04 later, Notre Dame had taken the lead for good by pushing the score to 13-7. This 44-yard scoring drive was powered by the reliable Pinkett. He had gains of 12 and 11 yards before going up the middle for three yards and six points. This marked his 18th touchdown of the season and placed him at the top of the list of Notre Dame career scorers with 254 points (surpassing Red Salmon's 250 in 1900-03). Pinkett finished with 98 yards on 24 carries-a very successful day considering he was running in ankle-deep water. However, Pinkett was quick to pass the glory on to his coaches and teammates. 
"This is an indication of how good this team is," said Pinkett. "This makes this team sort of special. Today's victory puts us in the history books. The seniors and coaches deserve a lot of credit." 
Covered from head to foot by a layer of mud, Notre Dame defensive tackle Mike Gann looked like one of those warriors of the past as he exclaimed, "I loved it, it was fun getting dirty." It was also fun to win. 
History or not, this was the kind of game of which legends are made. 
Notre Dame 0 13 6 o-19 
·USC. 0 7 ·0 o-7 
Scoring Summa..Y Second Quarter Time ·ND .USC SC-:-Ryan Knight 3 run '6:47 0 7 
(Steve Jordan kick)· . . . . . Drive: 67 yards in 11 plays in 4:18. 
· following Notre Dame punt · ND-Tim Brown II pass· _5:07 ..7 . 7. . . : from Steve Beuerlein: · 
: -~(John Carney kick) . . . · . Drive: 76 yards in seven.plays in 1:40 · . following USC kickoff ·. ND..:...AJien Pinkett 3 run 1:30. 13 
. (John Carney pass failed) . . Drive: .44 yards in four plays in 1:04 following.Rick DiBernardo recovery of . · USC fumble. · · 
Third Qaarter NO-John Carney 4S FG . . . .· . 12:39 16 7 
· Drive: two yards in three plays in 1:34· following Wally ·Kleine recovery of USC_fumble. . . . 
ND~John Carney 4S FG . . . ·J0:22 19 7, 
. Drive: seven yards in three plays in 1 :3S · ·. · . following' Mike Larkin recovery of USC fumble A-66,342 (81,670 tickets sold)· 
:Team Statistics· · 

. Fi;st o~wns ·.. .·Rushing Passing · Penalty · .: Rushing Attempts·. Yards Rushing ·Yards Lost Rushing; .. Net Yards Rushing· ·: · Net Yards Passing .. Passes Attempted . .'Passes Completed Had Intercepted. Tofal Offensive Plays · Total Net Yards . Average Gain Per Play Return Yards Fumbles: Number..:...Lost . · Penalties: Number-Yards Interceptions: Number-Yards Numberof Punts~Yards Average Per Punt Punt Returns: Number..:... Yards· . Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards Poss·ession Time · Third-Down Conversions SacksBy 
Individual Statls!li:s 
· ·.-Notre Dame 

Rushing· AU. Gain Lost Net 
Chris Smith 7 2 20
. 22 Allen Pinkett . 27·' 102 ·4 98 
Mark Brooks . 5 17 2 1S 
Steve Beuerlein 5 6 . 19--13. 
Passing· Att;_Comp; Int. Yards 
Steve Beuerlein 17 7 1 122 
Pass Receiving No. Yards 
Milt Jackson 2 47 
Tim Brown 2 19 
Mark Bavaro '2 38
-Ricky Gray, 1 18 
usc 

Rushing Au. Gain Lost Net 
Tim Green 9 3S 13 22 
Ryan Knight 10 '40 3 37. 
Fred Crutcher 2S 82 8 74 
Ken·nedy Pola 4 28. 0 28 
Todd Steele I 6 0 6 
Passing Att. Comp. Int. .Yards· 
Tim Green. 32 IS 0 179 
Pass Receiving No. Yards · Hank Norman s 1S , Kennedy Pola 5 59 Fred. Crutcher 1 5 ·Mark Royer 4 40 
ND 
14 6 7 
.1 
44 147 
. 27 . 120 122. 
.17 
7 . ]. ·. 61 . .242 
:3.97 47 
2.() 
. S-S1 0-7 .8-270 33.8 
. -0.() 
2-40 26:S3 3-1S 
. 1-S 
·-usc 
. ·21• . 9 '10 
2 
49 
191 
24 167 
. . 179. . 32 
1S 
·0 
81 346 4.27 68 
8-6 
S-4S 
1-7 
S-184 
36.8 
. 2·11 
4-SO 
33:07 8-18 1·2 
TD._L.ong 0 9 I IS 
0 11 0 5 
TD Long 
1 37 TD Long 0 37 '1 
Jl. 0 20 0 18 
TD Long 0 23 I 9 0 8 0 12 0 6 
TD L~ng 0 2S 
m Long 0 2S 0 17 
0 s· 0 IS 

The Irish defense had a smothering effect on USC's running game. 
Aloha Bowl 
Sweet Dreams Suffer 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
SMU versus Notre Dame. 
It was a dream matchup in a dream 
location. 
The matchup was ever so similar to the 

great games between these two teams in the 
1950s-only the names had been changed 

to protect the legendary. Players like Sitko, 
Hart, Rote and Walker yielded their place 
on the gridiron to the newer faces of 
Pinkett, Bavaro, Dupard and Atkins. Both 
teams were in the top 20, with SMU 
ranked lOth while Notre Dame checked in 
at-17th. Both teams had rallied late in the 
season-the Mustangs winning their last 
five in a row to enter the game at 9-2, 
while the Irish had risen from the ranks of 
the dead to win four straight to come in at 
7-4. 
While the matchup was great, the 
location was even better. The setting was 
neither that cold brickyard of tradition 
known as Notre Dame Stadium, nor Texas 
Stadium, new Dallas home for the 
Mustangs. Instead, both teams converged 
on the sun, surf and sand surrounding 
Aloha Stadium in Honolulu, Hawaii, for 
the third annual Aloha Bowl. 
It was a sweet dream, indeed, for Gerry 

Faust and his Fighting Irish. Unfortunately, 
as with all good things, it ended too soon, 
23 seconds too soon. That was the amount 
of time remaining when Notre Dame's 

Steve Beuerlein overthrew the lonely figure 
of Milt Jackson in the end zone on a 
fourth-and-nine play to secure SMU a 27­
20 victory over the Irish before an Aloha 
Bowl-record crowd of 41,777. 
The dream was suddenly over. 
The mere fact it lasted as long as it did, 
however, was cause for celebration. Notre 
Dame proved the nickname Fighting Irish 
was an appropriate moniker, as it rallied 
from a 14-point deficit in the first half and 
a 10-point margin with 6: 13 left to add to 
SMU coach Bobby Collins' collection of 
gray hairs. 
"We just ran out of time," sighed a 
down-but-not-out Gerry Faust. "We had a 
heck of an effort and came really close. 
You always like to end up with a victory, . but I told the kids to hold their heads up. They played hard against a good football . team, and they played hard to the end." 
Collins echoed Faust's sentiments in the 
Mustang locker room: "You have to give 

Notre Dame a lot of credit, they didn't give 
up. But give us a lot of credit, too. This is 
the fourth year in a row we've won 10 
games. Maybe now people will say 'Hey, 



this SMU is for real.' " 
If there was any doubt about that, it was answered on the Mustangs' first two possessions when SMU marched to a 14-0 lead. The first drive started after a rare miss on a 38-yard field goal attempt by Notre Dame's John Carney at the SMU 22. The Mustangs had moved the football on the ground successfully all year, but SMU quarterback Don King opened with a 24­yard pass to fullback Gary Hashaway. From that point on, the Mustangs used their triple option to move the ball at will, with offensive MVP Jeff Atkins capping the drive on a seven-yard option run around the right side to put SMU on top 7-0. 
"We came out and executed on offense, but we knew we would have to," stated Atkins after gaining 112 yards on 17 carries. "It's no easy job to run. against Notre Dame, but I don't think they were that familiar with the option, and that was a plus for us. We ran it about as well as we had all year.'' 
While the tandem of Atkins and Reggie Dupard exhibited the form that earned them the nickname of the Pony Express II (following the success of Eric Dickerson and Craig James), King was proving why 
. he was named to the all-Southwest Conference team by throwing for 153 yards and completing nine of 17 passes. It was King who came up with the two biggest plays on the next Mustang drive. First, on a third-and-18 call at the Irish 29, King connected with Rodney Morris for 21 yards and a first down. One botched play later, King rolled out from the Irish 12 to find fullback Cobby Morrison open, and Morrison took it in to give SMU a 14-0 lead. 
At that point, it looked as though the dream might become a nightmare for the Irish. The slumbering Irish needed a spark, and freshman Tim Brown provided it by returning the kickoff to the SMU 47. An inspired Irish offense took the field, and did what it docs best. It made room for Allen Pinkett. · 
Pinkett, who would set an Aloha Bowl record with 136 yards on 24 carries, ran behind the strong-side blocking of Larry Williams and Mike Perrino five times to set up a third and seven at the Mustang 17. This time Pinkett strayed from the back­field long enough to catch Beuerlein's pass in the end zone, and the Mustang lead was halved at 14-7. · 
"We were driving the ball well early," recalled Faust. "I was just concerned about stopping them after they put up points on their first two possessions. We were getting some good plays, but we weren't getting pursuit to the ball.'' 
Pinkett's touchdown put some life in the defense which stopped SMU on the next series. The Irish started coming back quickly, as Beuerlein hit Mark Bavaro for 15 yards and then flipped a nice shovel pass to Alonzo Jefferson for 28 more on consecutive plays to put the ball at the SMU 40. Unable to get a first down from 


6'We quit stunting·. 
defensively in the , second half. 1..· thought we could . 
·.come back and·· win 
. . 
the game_ if we just 


... stopped.them in the. ·· :secqndhalf. Th~ thing ·that _hurt us was their. two· favorite plays< · · · 
_: .. · re.ally ha~ been . . • ..... . · · · 
. ' . 
opt_~on .p':_--~-,:.. 
___;,.-~ q_erry _fqust:-: · 


there, Faust sent Carney onto the field. The reliable placekicker, using new shoes since his regular ones were resting in some baggage terminal between Chicago and Honolulu, redeemed his earlier miss by booming one through the uprights from 51 yards away to narrow the gap to 14-10. 
The dream was alive again, but so was the Mustang offense. King put SMU in striking distance with completions to Atkins and Marquis Pleasant, moving the ball to the Irish 36. From there, Dupard, on his way to getting 102 yards on 23 carries, carried the mail for the Pony Express on four of the next five plays to put SMU on the Notre Dame nine. That's when Mike Gann came up with two big defensive plays. On the first, he hauled down Morris on a fumbled end-around for a 13-yard loss. The next play found King dropping back to pass and dropping to the ground under Gann at the Irish 31. Forced to settle for three points, Brandy Brownlee con­verted from 4 7 yards away with seven seconds left in the half to give SMU a 17­10 lead at intermission. 

The Irish made some adjustments at halftime, more out of necessity than out of luxury. SMU had just rolled up 200 yards total offense against a formidable Irish defense, and that was enough for Faust. 
"We quit stunting defensively in the second half," recalled Faust. "I thought we could come back and win the game if we just stopped them in the second half. The thing that hu·rt us was their two favorite plays really had been going well for them­the belly play up the middle and the option. But our corners came up quicker in th~ second half, and we were able to shut it down a little.'' 
Unfortunately, the Irish offense also shut down a little in the third quarter. Opportu­nity not only knocked more than once, it literally rang the doorbell for the Irish­presenting itself in the form of excellent field position in two situations. The specter of unscored points came back to haunt the Irish later. 
"We had good field position twice in the third quarter, and didn't take advantage of it," remarked Faust. "That hurt.'' 
Nevertheless, the Irish found the third time of having good field position to be a charming one. After Joe Howard returned an SMU punt to the Mustang 40, Beuerlein was sacked for a 12-yard loss, and it looked as though the Irish were about to squander another chance. However, runs of 11 and 13 yards by Pinkett, along with a Mustang personal foul, put the Irish on the SMU 11. From there, fullback Mark Brooks ran like a battleship off the Hawaiian coast, docking in the end zone to tie the game at 17. 
SMU responded by showing exactly what is meant when someone says a team marched downfield. The Mustangs used 19 plays and over seven minutes on their next scoring drive. It started as most Mustang drives during the evening did, with Dupard and Atkins running for big chunks of yardage. When the third quarter ended SMU was looking at third and two on the Irish 25. 
That set the stage for the most controver­sial play of the game. On the first play of the final stanza, Dupard carried and · apparently fumbled into the arms of Notre Dame's Pat Ballage to end the SMU drive. However, umpire Bob Wagner, who was trailing the play, ruled Dupard was down and SMU retained possession. 
"The fumble recovery hurt us because we had just scored," said Faust. "If we had gotten it, it would have been a great momentum thing. The umpire said he called it dead, but there was no whistle. They said he was down. How could it be dead with no whistle?" 
As Faust debated the question, SMU converted on two consecutive fourth-and­one calls by giving the ball to Dupard. Still, the Irish defense was relentless, and 

tl) 
Brownlee finally ended the drive by kicking 

~ his second field goal, a 30-yarder giving 
~ the Mustangs a 20-17 lead. 
< SMU was not nearly as· time-consuming
;
~ on its next possession, but certainly more effective. After a 22-yard romp by Atkins to the ND 18, Dupard carried on the next three plays, scoring on a two-yard burst on the final play. The Mustangs held a 27-17 lead with 6: 13 left. 
The dream was fading. 
Down by 10 points and with time running down, everybody knew Notre Dame would have to throw, including Faust. That's why the Irish ran eight consecutive plays on the ground. While the Irish couldn't get in the end zone, Carney was close enough to kick a 31-yard field goal and pull the Irish within seven at 27-20. 
"We ran mostly draws there, because we felt they would expect us to be throwing," commented Faust. "That's how we got the field goal. We never thought of going for it on fourth and short. We felt we could get the ball back again. We just wanted to put some points on the board. If we had gone 

·:; and missed, it would have killed us not p putting any points on the board." 
As it was, the Irish ap.peared to have very little life left. SMU had only 3:15 to run 

tl) 
~ 
z ~ 
off the clock, and the way the Mustangs < had moved the ball on their last two
; 
possession-s, it would be a challenge for the 

~ 


Irish defense to stop them. The defense 
responded to the gauntlet laid before it. 
Three straight rushing plays netted SMU 
a mere six yards and, thanks to three Irish 
timeouts, took only 33 seconds off the 
clock. Notre Dame took possession on its 
own 23 with 2:42 left and no timeouts. 
Steve Beuerlein and the offense had their 
work cut out for them. 
Beuerlein missed on his first two passes of the drive, but on fourth and seven, the sophomore connected with Joe Howard for eight yards and a first down. One play later, Jefferson carried for nine yards, and on third and one Beuerlein hit tight end Ricky Gray for 10 yards. 
Now the Irish were in SMU territory at the 47 before Beuerlein clicked with Tim Brown for the first time during the game on a 16-yard play. One play later, the Irish quarterback scrambled to the right sideline for 14 yards to the SMU 17 for a first down. Beuerlein and Bavaro linked up for a one-yard gain, but two more passes fell incomplete, and the Irish faced fourth and nine. 
It was time for the play that would make headlines over and over the next day-a pass from Beuerlein intended for Milt Jackson. 
"There were two holes in the seams, and I found one," said Jackson. "But then Steve was under such pressure that I kept sliding. I slid into the end zone, because that way if I was going to make the catch it would be for a touchdown/' 
"It was a play designed to hit Milt on the break after a five-step drop on a quick pattern," noted Beuerlein. "The linebacker took him out of the pattern, but as usually happens when you're scrambling around, a receiver comes open. Milt just fell into the open hole." 
Yes, Jackson was open, wide open. He 
was so open SMU safety Tim Green, the 
nearest defender on the play, would have 
had to use a long-distance operator' to reach 
him. 
"I don't know what happened," remarked 
Mustang cornerback Rodney Jones .. "I 
thought the safety had him until I looked 
back and saw that nobody had him." 
Beuerlein looked and saw Jackson as 
well. However, Beuerlein's pass sailed high 
into the Hawaiian night, and a leaping 
Jackson could only get his fingertips on the 
ball. The pass fell to the ground, and as 
Beuerlein hurled his helmet across. the turf, 
he knew the dream was over. 
"I choked," remarked Beuerlein, 
shouldering more than his share of the 
blame for the loss. "He was so wide open, . I just couldn't get him the ball. I think I 
can hit that pass 10 out of 10 times, but I 
tried to aim it. Basically, I blew it." 
Faust absolved his young quarterback of the responsibility for the loss. "You can't 
·.
,,1 choked. · .. · 

He·was so wide.open, 
·I just. couldn't get: him . the ·ball. . . Basically, I. blew it.'9 
· · ~Steve Beuerlein 

fault Steve," emphasized Faust. "He played a heck of a game and made some great plays on that last drive. He was down naturally when he came off the field, but I was very impressed with the way our young men moved the ball down the field." 
All Collins could say of the play in the jubilant SMU locker room was, "I was holding my breath." 
''All in all, it was a well-played football game by both sides," stated Faust. "They were really as good as we knew they were. Either team could have won. I would have liked to have won this one for our seniors." 
Unfortunately for those seniors, the dream floated into the moonlit skies of Aloha Stadium. 
For Faust and the remaining Irish players, however, the dream still lingers. 

Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein calls the signals on Notre Dame's final fourth-down play from scrimmage. 
:1:) 
~ 
Q 
z 
<
; 
I:Q 

Notre Dame 0 10 7 3-20 
SM 7 10 0 10-27 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time SMU ND SM-Jeff Atkins 7 run 6:07 7 . 0 
(Brandy Brownlee kick)· . Drive: 78 yards in· 10 plays in 4:08 following missed field-goal attempt by Notre Dame. 
Second Quarter SM.:..CobbyMorrisonl2passfromDonKing 11:35 14 0 (Brandy Brownlee kick) .Drive: 80 yards in 14 plays in 6:28 following Notre Dame punt 
ND-AIIenPinkett 17passfromSteveBeuerlein 8:26 14 (John Carney kick) Drive: 47 yards · in 7 plays in 2:59 following SMU kickoff · 
ND-John CarneyS I FG 4:23 14 10 Drive: S1· yards in seven plays in 3:01. follo.,.,ing SMU punt 
SM-Brandy Brownlee47 FG . 0:07 17 10 · Drive: 49 yards in 12 plays in 4:16 following Notre Dame kickoff 
Third Quarter · 
NO-Mark Brooks I 1 run 3:50 17 17 (John Carney kick) Drive: 40 yards in S plays in 2:10 following SMU punt. · 
Fourth Quarter , 
SM-BrandyBrownlee30FG . . 11:47 . 20 17 Drive: 67 yards in . 19 plays in 7:03 following Notre Dame kickoff 
SM"'-Reggie Dupard 2 run · 6:13. 27 17 (Brandy Brownlee kick) Drive: SO yards in seven plays in 3:15 following Notre Dame punt 
ND.:..John Carney 31 FG . 3:15 27 20, Drive: 65 yards in nine plays in 2:57 
following SMU kickoff . A--41,777 
Tram Statistics 

First Downs RuShing Passing Penalty 
Rushing Attempts Yards Gained Rushing Yards Lost Rushing Net Yards Rushing Net Yards Passing 
Passes Attempted .. Passes Completed 
Had Intercepted Total Offensive Plays Total Net Yards 
Average Gain Per Play 
Return Yards Fumbles: Number-Lost Penalties: Number-Yards. Interceptions: Number-Yards 
. Number of Punts:.... Yards 
Average Per Punt Punt Returns: Number-Yards Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards Possession Tfme: Third-Down Conversions Sacks By . 
ND SMU 22 26 12 18 9 7 I I 
43 64 250. 280 32 54 218 226 144 153 23 17 II 9 
0 ·o :66 
81. 362 379 5.5 4.7 42 2S. 0-0 4-0 
S-44 5-55 
0-0 0-0 4-166 S-205 41.5 41.0 4-42 2-25 4-105 . 2-SS 26:28 33:32 3-12 5-14 . 3-20 3-19 
· Individual Statistics 

SMU Rushing AU. Gain Lost Net TD Long Jeff Atkins · 17 112 ·o 112 I 22 Reggie Dupard .. 23 103 0 103 I II Gary Hashaway 8 . 34 0 34 0 8 Cobby Morrison 7 26 0 26 0 7 Ron Morris· I 0 13 -13 0 -13 Don King. 8 5 41 -36 0 3 
P115Sing All. Comp. Int. Yards TO Long Don King 17 9 0 153 I 39 
. Pass Receiving No. Yards. TD Long Jeff Atkins 2 31 0 16 Gary Hashaway 2 27 0 24 Ron Morris · 2 27 0. 21 Reggie Dupard I 39 39
0 .. Marquis Pleasant I 17 0 17 Cobby Morrison I 12 I 12 
.Notre Dame Rushing AU. Gain Lost . Net TD Long Allen Pinkett 24 143 7 . ··136 0 14 Alonzo Jefferson 9 62 2 60 0 20 Mark Brooks 4 19 0 19 I II Steve Beuerlein 5 26 19 7 0 14' Tim Brown I 0 4 -4 0 -4 
Passing . . All. Comp. Int.' Yards TO Long Steve Beuerlein 23 II 0 144 I 28 Pll5S Receiving· ..· 
No. Yards TO Long Alonzo Jefferson 2 . 37 0 . 28 Joe Howard 2 24 0 16 Mark Bavaro 2 16 0 15 Tim Brown I 16 0 16 Milt Jackson 1 . 13 0 13 Allen Pinkett I 17 I 17 Chris Smith I II 0 II Ricky Gray I 10 ·o 10 


Notes on Notre Dame 
Irish Items: Football '84 
By JOHN HEISLER 
• Six different Notre Dame players earned All-America mention in 1984. Senior tight end MARK BAVARO was a first-team pick on the Associated Press team and an honorable mention choice according to United Press International. 

·Senior offensive guard LARRY WIL­LIAMS was a second-team UPI pick and a third-team AP and Football News selection. Senior defensive tackle MIKE GANN was a second-team UPI choice and an honor­able mention AP pick. Senior center MIKE KELLEY was a second-team selection by ·17ze Sporting News and an AP honorable mention pick. Junior tailback ALLEN PINKE'IT was an honorable mention selection by both AP and UPI. Sophomore placekicker JOHN CARNEY was an honorable mention AP pick. 
• 
At the 65th annual Notre Dame Football Banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, ALLEN PINKE'IT was honored as the Most Valuable Player for 1984 for the second straight year. MARK BAVARO was chosen the Outstanding Offensive Player, MIKE GANN the;6utstanding Defensive Player and JOHN CARNEY the Outstanding Specialty Team Player. All four awards were chosen by vote of the players. The MVP award is presented annually by the Notre Dame National Monogram Club. 

• 
Both defensive tackle WALLY KLEINE and quarterback STEVE BEUERLEIN were named to the Sopho­'~·· more All-America team chosen by Football 


j
News. Kleine was a first-team choice, while Beuerlein was named to the second 

·~-~~ ·~--·~-·;/::·'· .. -· 
team. 

• A quartet of seniors-tailback ALLEN Irish two-sport star Joe Howard finished his Notre Dame career ranked fifth on the PINKETT, offensive guard TIM SCAN­reception chart with 85 catches for 1,663 yards. He started 37 games for Notre Dame NELL and linebackers MIKE LARKIN over his four seasons. 1 and TONY FURJANIC-has been elected Vagas Ferguson's all-time record of 3,472 missing the entire '83 season with a broken by their teammates to serve as captains of set between 1976 and '79. arm, the 6-1, 221-pound Cincinnati native the 1985 Notre Dame football team. Scannell spearheaded a return to form for tore knee ligaments during an August 
Pinkett came on late in the season to the Irish offensive line that helped Notre scrimmage and didn't return to action until 
average 142.8 yards per contest over the Dame run for 186.2 yards per game over the South Carolina game October 20. He 
last five regular-season games and push the last five regular-season contests. A started the last three regular-season games 
him over the 1 ,000-yard mark for-the starter in all 12 games in '84, the 6-4, 277-and helped Notre Dame finish 31st in the 
second straight season. The 5-9, 183-pound State College, Pa., native has been a country in tota~ defense with a 318.2-yard 
pounder from Sterling, Va., finished with regular since his sophomore season. average. He made 39 tackles plus two 
1,105 yards-including a high of 189 Scannell's father Bob was an end for the others for lost yardage after leading the 
versus Penn State-and tied his own single­Irish in the 1950s and his grandfather John team in tackles as a sophomore in 1982. 
season record by scoring 18 touchdowns. was chairman of the physical education Furjanic, too, was hampered by injuries 
Notre Dame's all-time career leader in department at Notre Dame for 40 years. in '84 after leading Notre Dame in tackles 
touchdowns ( 42), points scored (254) and Larkin keynoted Notre Dame's defensive last season as a sophomore. The 6-2, 231­
100-yard games (15), Pinkett needs only improvement once he returned to the field pounder from Chicago, Ill., tore knee 442 rushing yards next season to pass following a preseason knee injury. After ligaments in the Missouri game and didn't 
return to duty until he came off the bench against Penn State and USC to finish the campaign. A starter in the Aloha Bowl, he finished with 50 total tackles in '84. 
• Junior defensive tackle GREG DINGENS received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph VaHey Scholar-Athlete Award for '84. 
Dingens, a 6-5, 254-pounder from Bloomfield Hiiis, Mich., owns a 3.781 grade average (on 4.00 scale) as a pre­professional major in the Coilege of Arts and Letters. With hopes for medical school eventuaily, he earned a perfect 4.0 average last spring while taking 17 credit hours. 
A second team Academic Ail-America choice in '83 and '84, Dingens made 20 tackles this season, nine of them solo efforts. He also recorded two quarterback sacks, two other tackles for lost yardage and recovered two fumbles. 
• Fifty-seven monograms were awarded to members of the '84 Notre Dame footbaii squad: 
SENIORS (17)-Mark Bavaro, Brian Behmer, Mark Brooks, Robbie Finnegan, Mike Gann, Mike Golic, Ricky Gray, Scott Grooms, Joe Howard, Joe Johnson, Mike Keiiey, Kevin Keiiy, Mike Kiernan, Chris Smith, Larry Wiiliams, Mike Viracola and Jerry Weinle. 
JUNIORS (18)-Pat Baiiage, Pat Cusack, Rick DiBernardo, Greg Dingens, Tom Doerger, Eric Dorsey, Tony Furjanic, Shawn Heffern, Milt Jackson, Mike Larkin, Tom Monahan, Mike Perrino, AIIcn Pinkett, Ron Plantz, Tom Scanneii, Jay Underwood, Ron Weissenhofer and John McCabe. 
SOPHOMORES (17)-John Askin, Robert Banks, Steve Beuerlein, Dave Butler, John Carney, Hiawatha Francisco, Mike Haywood, Mike Griffin, Alonzo Jefferson, Waiiy Kleine, Mike Kovaleski, Chuck Lanza, Steve Lawrence, Marv Spence, Joel Wiiiiams, Troy Wilson and James Bobb. 
FRESHMAN (5)-Tiin Brown, Reggie Ward, Frank Starns, Cedric Figaro and Brandy Weiis. 
Graduating seniors receiving service monograms were Joe Fazio, Dave O'Haren, Jeff O'Neiii, Ian deHueck, Steve White, Steve Wiilertz, John Wackowski, Mike Richerson, Marty Roddy, Dave Machtolf, Tony Piccin, Tom Roggeman and Tony Leonard. 
• Junior offensive guard TIM SCAN­NELL played more minutes than any other player for Notre Dame in 1984 with his final 269:47 total. Here's a compiete list of regular-season playing times for every player who saw action for the Irish in '84: 
OFFENSIVE LINEMEN-Tim Scanneii (started 11) 269:47, Mike Kelley (started 
11) 266:00, Mike Perrino (started 11) 253:27, Larry Wiiiiams (started 8, played 
11) 219:34, Tom Doerger (started 8, played 
9) 178:27, Ron Plantz (started 3, played 5) 67:35; John Askin (started 3, played 9) 67:33, Jay Underwood (played 10) 53:52, Shawn Heffern (played 8) 38:37, Robbie Finnegan (played 11) 23:49, Chuck Lanza (played 11) 10:48, Marty Roddy (played 2) 
10:25, Tony Piccin (played 2) 8:34, Tom McHugh (played 2) 6:44, Pete Rokich (played 2) 4:13, Tom Freeman (played 1) 
2:39. RECEIVERS-Mark Bavaro (started 
11) 208:47, Milt Jackson (started 8, played 
10) 158:39, Joe Howard (started 9, played 
10) 150:44, Tim Brown (started 4, played 11) 122:44, Ricky Gray (played 11) 90:38, Brian Behmer (played 11, also at OLB) 46:58, Reggie Ward (played 10) 45:02, Joel Wiiliams (played 7) 35:07, Pat Cusack (played 11) 22:54, Alvin Miiier (started 1, played 2) 14:07, Mike Richerson (played 2) 11:43, Joe Fazio (played 2). 7:17, Dan Tanczos (played 1) 5:01, Mike James (played 2) 4:14. OFFENSIVE BACKS-Steve Beuerlein (started 10, played 10) 252:26, Ailen Pinkett (started 
11) 198:11, Chris Smith (started 5, played 
11) 165:10, Mark Brooks (started 6, played 
11) 136:32, Alonzo Jefferson (played 7) 38:44, Scott Grooms (started 1, played 3) 37:15, Frank Starns (played 11) 19:50, Lester Flemons (played 5) 13:50, Tom Monahan (played 11) 13:05, Terry Andrysiak (played 1) 4:18, Ray Carter (played 2) 3:53, Ian deHueck (played 2) 2:53, Dave Machtolf (played 1) 2:39, Jeff O'Neiii (played 1) :34. DEFENSIVE LINEMEN-Mike Gann (started 11) 234:58, Waiiy Kleine (started 11) 230:04, Mike Griffin (started 9, played 10) 171:38, Greg Dingens (played 10) 66:51, Jerry Weinle (started 1, played 9, also at OG) 65:30, Eric Dorsey (started 1, played 7) 53:07, Mike Kiernan (played 5) 28:59, Jeff Kunz (played 5) 16: 11, Byron Spruell (played 3) 15:22, Tom Rehder (played 5) 11:38, Joe Bars (played 2) 9:41, Tom Roggeman (played 2) 2:57, Tom Riley (played 1) 2:37, Tony Leonard (played 1) 
2:21. LINEBACKERS-Robert Banks (started 11) 231:19, Mike Kovaleski (started 8, played 11) 199:16, Rick DiBernardo (started 4, played 10) 127:28, Mike Golic (started 6, played 9) 127:19, John McCabe (started 4, played 11) 107:48, Tony Furjanic (started 4, played 6) 99:16, Cedric Figaro (started 1, played 11) 87:32, Mike Larkin (started 3, played 5) 87:00, Ron Weissenhofer (started 3, played 9) 83:25, Dave Butler (played 6) 28:13, Steve White (played 1) 1:37, Dave O'Haren (played 2) 1:27, John Wackowski (played 1) 1:06, Steve Wiilertz (played 1) :48. DEFENSIVE BACKS-Pat Ballage (started 10, played 11) 265:01, Joe Johnson (started 10, played 10) 214:42, Troy Wilson (started 8, played 9) 203:19, Hiawatha Francisco (started 5, played 11) 191:37, Steve Lawrence (started 7, played 10) 164:45, Mike Haywood (started 4, played 
11) 148:12, Marv Spence (played 11) 33:59, James Bobb (played 8) 31:58, David McGuffey (played 7) 12:47, Brandy Weiis (played 11) 9:08, Scott Rogers (played 2) :41. SPECIALISTS-Kevin Kelly (played 
11) 16:22, Mike Viracola (played 11) 15:57, John Carney (played 11) 7:55, Hal Von Wyl (played 1) :25, Pat Chura (played 1) :03. 
• 
Post-season bowl participation by Notre Dame players in '84 included appearances by LARRY WILLIAMS (Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl), MIKE GANN (Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl), MARK BAVARO (Hula Bowl) and MIKE KELLEY (East-West Shrine Classic and Japan Bowl). 

• 
Here's where Notre Dame finished in the final NCAA statistical rankings for the '84 season: 57th in total offense (336.5 yards per game), 69th in rushing offense 


(146.9 yards per game), 37th in passing offense (189.5 yards per games), 33rd in scoring offense (25.4 points per game), 31st in total defense (318.2 yards per game), 69th in rushing defense (174.3 yards per game), 12th in passing defense 
(143.9 yards per game) and 42nd in scoring defense (19.3 points per game). Notre Dame's rushing offense figure is its lowest since 1962. Notre Dame's individual rankings included ALLEN PINKETT 16th in rushing (100.5 yards per game), lOOth in total offense (103.2 yards per game), second in scoring at 9. 8 points per game (Ohio State's Keith Byars ranked first) and 17th in all-purpose running (123.8 yards per game), STEVE BEUERLEIN 24th in passing efficiency (124.3 rating) and 26th in total offense (184.5 yards per game), 
·MIKE VIRACOLA 57th in punting (39.4 yards per punt), JOE HOWARD 50th in punt returns (7.5 yards per return), TROY WILSON 61st in punt returns (7.0 yards per return), ALONZO JEFFERSON 41st in kickoff returns (20.8 yards per return) and JOHN CARNEY 14th in field goals 
(1.55 per game) and 34th in scoring (6.9 points per game). 
• Notre Dame's 1984 schedule ranked as the 13th toughest in the country, according to final NCAA figures. Irish opponents went 59-44-3 against other Division I teams, not including games against Notre Dame, for a .571 percentage during the regular season. Penn State (.613) topped the toughest-schedule standings, with Georgia (.602) second and Florida (.602) third. Notre Dame played seven teams that finished with winning records in '84­Purdue 7-5, Miami 8-5, Air Force 8-4, South Carolina 10-2, LSU 8-3-1, Penn State 6-5 and USC 9-3. The Irish played seven teams that earned postseason bowl invitations-Purdue·to the Peach, Michigan State to the Cherry, Miami to the Fiesta, Air Force to the Independence, South Carolina to the Gator, LSU to the Sugar and USC to the Rose Bowl. The Irish also played four teams that finished in the final Associated Press top 20-USC (lOth), South Carolina (11th), LSU (15th) and Miami (18th)-not including SMU's eighth­place finish. Ironicaiiy, Notre Dame's '84 schedule turned out to be much tougher than antic.ipated because four teams on it ranked among the eight most improved squads in the nation. According to NCAA 
regular-season figures, South Carolina 
ranked as the most improved team in the 
nation (going from 5-6 in '83 to 10-1 in 

'84)-while LSU ranked third (4-7 to 8-2­
1) and Purdue (3-7-1 to 7-4) and USC (4-6­1 to 8-3) tied for seventh. Notre Dame's schedule for 1985 looks just as imposing. On it are eight bowl teams from '84 and nine teams with winning '84 regular-season records. No team on the schedule won less than four games, and the 11 teams combined forged a 71-47-4 (.598) regular­
, season mark in '83. In fact, the '85 . schedule opens with six straight games against bowl teams from '84-Michigan (Holiday), Michigan State (Cherry), Purdue (Peach), Air Force (Independence), Army (Cherry) and USC (Rose). 
• 
Junior tailback ALLEN PINKETT was named the Associated Press Midwest Offensive Player of the Week for his performance November 17 in the 44-7 Irish win over Penn State. Pinkett that afternoon rushed for a season-high 189 yards on 34 carries and scored four touchdowns. It marked the second straight season Pinkett has scored four touchdowns against Penn State. He also caught one pass against the Nittany Lions, a 36-yarder that ranked as the longest reception of the day. Notre Dame received four $1,000 scholarships from Chevrolet in the names of STEVE BEUERLEIN, MIKE KOVALESKI, ALLEN PINKETT and MIKE GANN/ WALLY KLEINE for their performances in network. televised games. Beuerlein was chosen by ABC for his performance against Missouri when he completed 16 of 25 passes for 256 yards, including a 74-yard scoring strike to freshman Reggie Ward in the 16-14 Notre Dame win. Kovaleski was chosen by ESPN for his effort against Miami when he made a team-leading 16 tackles in the 31-13 Hurricane victory. Pinkett was chosen by ABC for his performance against LSU when he rushed a record-tying 40 times for 162 yards and two touchdowns in the 30-22 Irish victory. Gann and Kleine were chosen as co­winners by CBS for their efforts against USC. Gann made eight tackles, one tackle for lost yardage and recovered a fumble, while Kleine made five tackles, two for lost yardage and recovered a fumble in the 19-7 Irish victory. 

• 
For the third straight year, the University of Notre Dame was the recipient of the Academic Achievement Award · sponsored by the Touchdown Club of Memphis in association with the College Football Association. Notre Dame won the award because it had the highest graduation rate of all CFA member schools among members of its football team. The '84 award was based on players entering on financial aid in the fall of 1978, and 27 of 28 (96.4 percent) graduated within five years, the best figure among the 63 CFA institutions. Duke shared the award with its 


· 95.6 percent (22 of 23) figure. Notre Dame won the award in '83 because 79.3 percent of the freshmen who entered on scholarship in '77 received their degrees (23 of 29). Notre Dame also won the award in '82 because 84 percent of the freshmen who entered on scholarship in '76 received their degree. Twenty-six members of that freshman class completed their four years of eligibility, and all 26 received their degree. Duke University won the award in '81, the first year it was presented. 
• 
Gerry Faust's '84 Notre Dame squad did an impressive job of squaring its record in network televised games. The Irish defeated both Missouri and LSU on ABC, while they knocked off USC in the season finale on CBS. That came after Notre Dame had dropped seven of eight games televised regionally or nationally on ABC or CBS in Faust's first three seasons. ESPN broadcast five other Notre Dame games live nationally in '84-with the Irish defeating Navy and Penn State and falling to Miami, Air Force and South Carolina. 

• 
Notre Dame adopted new jerseys in 1984, dropping the royal blue uniform tops with the three stripes on the sleeves in favor of the solid navy blue tops worn throughout the Ara Parseghian years. But it was in its white road uniforms that Notre Dame saw its most success in '84. The Irish won all five regular-season games in which they 


. wore white-before falling in the '84 Aloha Bowl. A year ago in the '83 Liberty Bowl, Notre Dame also wore white while defeating Boston College 19-18. 
• ALLEN PINKETT established career record's for points scored, total touchdowns,. rushing touchdowns, 100-yard games and all-purpose rushing yardage during the 1984 season. Pinkett's 18 touchdowns in '84 give him 42 for his career, breaking Red Salmon's mark of 36 set in 1900-03. His 108 points in '84 give him 254 in his career, breaking Salmon's mark of 250. Pinkett's 17 rushing touchdowns in '84 give him 38 in his career, breaking Salmon's mark of 36. His four 100-yard games in '84 gave him 15 in his career, breaking Vagas Ferguson's mark of 13 set in 1Q76-· 79. His 4,024 all-purpose-yards (3,031 rushing, 639 receiving, 354 on kickoff returns) now ranks first on that chart, breaking Ferguson's mark of 3,838. Pinkett now ranks second on the career rushing yardage chart with 3,031 yards, behind only Ferguson's 3,472 total. Pinkett's, 1,105 rushing yards in '84 mark only the fifth time in Notre Dame history an Irish back has gained 1,000 in a._$eason. His total was the fourth-best single-season total in Notre Dame history. Pinkett tied his own · season mark of 18 total touchdowns, also set in '83. His 108 points in '84 were only two behind his record-setting '83 total of 
110. Pinkett's career average of 94.7 yards per game rushing (3,031 in 32 games) stands as a record heading into his senior season, ahead of George Gipp's 86.7 figure in 1917-20. He needs to carry the ball40 times in '85 to break Ferguson's career mark of 673 attempts. 
• STEVE BEUERLEIN set a single­season record for pass completion percent­age in '84 with his .603 mark (140 of 232). That broke Terry Hanratty's .589 figure (116 of 197) set in 1968. Beuerlein also set the season record for interceptions with 18, breaking the old mark of 16 held by Joe Theismann in 1969, Angelo Bertelli in 
1942 and John Niemiec in 1928. Beuer­lein's '84 season figures rank him third in completions (140, behind Joe Theismann's 155 in '70), sixth in yardage (1,845, behind Theismann's 2,813 in '70) and third in attempts (232, behind Thiesmann's 268 in '70). Beuerlein already has 215 career completions to his credit and needs only 90 more to pass Terry Hanratty's all-time total of 304. With two full seasons to go, Beuerlein also is in line to set a career record for completion percentage. His current .5703 figure (215 of 377) already tops the mark of .5697 (290 of 509) set by Theismann in 1968-70. 
• 
JOHN CARNEY set a single-season record for field goal percentage in '84, his .895 mark (17 of 19) topping Mike Johnston's .864 (19 of 22) from '82. He also became only the second Notre Dame kicker ever to finish with a perfect mark in PAT kicks, his 25-of-25 figure matching Bob Thomas' 34-of-34 from '72. Carney's 17 field goals ranked third on the season chart behind Johnston's 19 in '82, and his 17 career field goals rank sixth on that list behind Dave Reeve's 39. Carney also tied Johnston's single-season mark of 76 points scored by a kicker, with Johnston establish­ing that mark in '82. Carney established an NCAA record in '84 for best field-goal percentage on kicks from 40 yards and out. He was 10 of 11 in that department for a .909 mark that beat the .846 (11 of 13) figure by Mike Bass of Illinois in 1982. Carney also set an NCAA mark for percentage of kicks between 40 and 49 yards only. He was a perfect 10 for 10 in that area, beating out Bass' eight-for-eight mark as well as an identical figure by Jorge Portela of Auburn in '79. 

• 
JOE HOWARD finished his Notre Dame career as the fifth-leading receiver in Irish history. His 85 career catches stand behind the all-time record of 157 set by Tom Gatewood in 1969-71. He finished with a career average per catch of 19.6, third on the all-time list behind Kris Haines' 21.5 mark set in 1975-78. Howard started 37 games in his four-year Notre Dame career-and he caught two or more passes in 34 "of the 37 games. The 5-9, 171-pound senior produced 2,436 all­purpose yards-1 ,663 on his 85 receptions, 93 on 11 rushing carries, 342 on 48 punt returns and 338 on 16 kickoff returns. 


Reflections 


Thanks for the Memories 
By LARRY WILLIAMS 

My dorm room phone gave a startling double-ring, indicating a long-distance phone call. A friend of mine from the West Coast was attempting to verify an "inside story" about the present and future of Notre Dame football. The story was a composite of printed stories, news reports and, ah yes, a little old-fashioned hearsay. As I did my best to set my bewildered friend straight, I hung up the phone realizing the country's incredible focus on this University's most popular pastime. 
While much has been written and even more has been said about Notre Dame's gridiron successes and failures, I am compelled to give testimony to some of the thoughts and feelings of the 1984 team. It was a team that experienced the gamut of emotions in a single year. These thoughts and feelings are, on one hand, difficult to capture because of the passage of time. On the other hand, this added time has allowed me to reflect, sort through and organize this emotional roller coaster. 
Looking back, I see a team that went down to the Hoosier Dome far more confident than need be. We were sloppy in everything we did, expecting Purdue to roll over because of the thrashing we dealt them the previous year. Duririg the game we all looked to our teammates to make the incredible play. When no one did, we found ourselves out of time, upset and embar­rassed. 
Our embarrassment turned into insecurity the following week at Michigan State. If it is possible to try too hard, we did it in the first half, giving the ball away ~nd missing tackles. Then the true character of the team began to show. I remember the determined look on Chris Smith's face as the second half began. We started creating opportuni­ties, most vividly portrayed by Mike · Haywood's acrobatic blocked punt which would have received perfect lOs even from the Russian judges. 
The eventual victory got us on the right track. We pounded Colorado at home the next week and our depleted troops won a "don't look a gift horse in the mouth" game the following week in Missouri. At halftime, I distinctly remember Tony Furjanic pounding the locker-room wall in anguish and frustration after a first-half knee injury. Little did I know that this would be an omen for what was in store for us in the following three weeks. 
My reflections tend to group the next three home games into _one dark and dreary 


Irish captain Larry Williams. pass-blocks for quarterback Steve Beuerlein. 
picture. We wanted nothing more than to avenge a loss to Miami, a group that needed some humbling. I remember Joe Howard, lying next to me in the training room nursing six different ailments proclaiming that nothing was going to keep him from getting his shots in on the Hurricanes' boisterously confident secondary. Despite all of our efforts and desires, we didn't have enough strength to pull it off. Nor did we have enough strength to stop a fiercely precise Air Force squad. For the third year in a row their option offense performed surgery on our defense and their stunting defense caused havoc for our offense. I will never forget the empty feeling I held inside as I ran out of Notre Dame Stadium amidst an echo of boos. I was violently angry because I couldn't understand how our own student body and fans could turn on us. We were injured and alone. 
This feeling of loneliness bound our team together. We knew that we were the only people from whom we could draw support. After a team meeting we decided to play strictly for ourselves and each other, letting the people outside of our team do what they 
wanted. 
The next Saturday we felt a dramatic change. Although we came up on the short end on the scoreboard, we played far better against one of the nation's few undefeated teams, South Carolina. We did everything required to win, but we didn't get the breaks. Our frustrations lingered, but we were coming together as a unit. 
It all emerged the next week in Baton Rouge against another top 10 team. As the chant "Tiger bait" became deafening, our excitement grew. A national television audience tuned in to see if the Irish were washed up. Jay Underwood's comic relief kept us loose and relaxed in the locker room prior to the game. We banded together with a nothing-to-lose attitude and went out and dominated our opponent. Following the game, Coach Faust looked like a 10-year-old at Christmas as he bear­hugged anyone who came near him. 
At the Meadowlands the following week we found ourselves trailing a determined Navy squad late in the game. We were playing carelessly and making mistakes. Most of the 60,000 fans had headed to the parking lots in disgust, but there wasn't a person on our sidelines who didn't believe we were going to pull it out. Our intensity and concentration shone in Steve Beuer­lein's eyes as he heroically guided two scoring drives in the final four minutes. John Carney's ho-hum, last-second field goal gave us the victory and it was business as usual. 
We didn't know what to expect the following week as we returned home to face Penn State. We wanted to relax yet play extremely hard in our last home game. And play hard we did. Allen Pinkett ran like a man possessed and Mike Gann literally pounded the enemy on our way to a crushing victory over the Nitanny Lions. I don't honestly remember much of the game because I was so intensely involved, but I will never forget the elation that I saw in each and every player's eyes in the final quarter when everyone was getting a chance to play. Nor will I ever forget actually 

Irish offensive line coach Carl Selmer delivers a lecture in the rain during the USC victory to Ron Plantz (62), Mike Kelley (63), Larry Williams and Jay Underwood. 
59. 

holding back the tears as the final seconds of my last game at Notre Dame ticked away and the student body rushed onto the field. It was at that time that I realized what it was all about to play at Notre Dame. 
In Southern California the following week we all enjoyed ourselves. Although the weather turned nasty at gametime we were not going to let USC and the, shall I say, historically partisan referees take this one away. We had come too far. Besides, a victory would entitle us to a free trip to Hawaii for the Aloha Bowl. The picture of Mike Kelley emerging from a pile of mud and humanity after a successful gain, proclaiming simply, "This is fun," will always remain in my mind. So, too, will the picture of Scott Grooms standing atop a locker room table after the game doing his version of the hula in anticipation of the official bowl announcement. 

6 6 l_don't'hones.tly . 
remember much of the 
.(P~nn State) game be~. 
cau'se I. was intensely·_ . involved, hutl will· nev.er. forget the elation .. I saw in each .and 


every player's eyes·~ 
in. the. final quarter 

when everyone. was .·: · 
·. .·getting a chance· · 
·· · ·· .. to .play. 9 9 

~Larry-: Wiilicims · 
' a ~ A • • ' • : • • : 


In that locker room I saw a bunch of guys with whom I had become very close. These people had a special character about them. They had an inner pride that allowed them to band together and fight their way back from the lowest of emotional points. This is how I will gladly remember Notre Dame. 
Although we lost a close contest in the Aloha Bowl, I am still amazed at our team's comeback. In my life, I will not count the games which we won and lost, rather I will cherish the lessons that I lear1_1ed and the memory of the people with whom I worked. 
Larry Williams, a 6-6, 276-pound senior guard from Santa Ana, Calif., served as · one ofthree captains ofthe '84 Notre Dame football team. An American Studies major in the College ofArts and Letters, Williams started 29 games in his Notre Datne career, earning second-team All­America honors in '84 from United Press Imernational. 

'85 Preview 
It Won't Happen Again 
By JOHN HEISLER 

This will be the year that those helmet­popping, heart-stopping finishes go up on the winning side of the ledger. 
Thirteen of the 20 losses endured by Gerry Faust in four seasons have come by a touchdown or less. Only six times have the Irish prevailed with margins of that category. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year of continuity. No changes in Faust's coaching staff-for the first time since he came to Notre Dame­should engender a spirit of building on the positives left by a splendid, late-season effort in '84. 
There will be no talk of having to re-tool the defense or re-align the offense because of the philosophies of new staff members. 
It won't happen again. 
This will be the year that the Irish stay healthy. This will be the year that Notre Dame's depth is used and not abused. 
All Gerry wants is a lineup that remains relatively consistent from week to week­unlike '84 when Faust never put the same defensive lineup on the field two weeks in a row. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year the Irish take advantage of the momentum generated by their late-season surge of '84 that produced wins over sixth-ranked LSU; 20th-ranked Penn State and 12th-ranked USC. 
Notre Dame players and coaches said the same thing last year, but the impetus of a Liberty Bowl win over Boston College produced only a disappointing 23-21 season-opening loss to Purdue last fall. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year that tailback Allen Pinkett makes alegitimate run at the Heisman Trophy about which he has dreamed. Even with Big Ten followers singing the praises of Ohio State's Keith Byars, Pinkett will have every opportunity if he and his teammates have the kind of season they are capable of having. His 3,031-yard total makes him the NCAA's leading returning career rusher for '85. 
In '84, Pinkett still managed to gain 1,000 yards-even with defenses stacked against him and even with a frustratingly­troubling ankle problem he and Faust were too proud to discuss the first half of the season. It won't happen again. 

Allen Pinkett hopes 1985 will hold many bright moments like this. 
This will be the year Steve Beuerlein becomes the dominating quarterback he's capable of becoming. This will be the year. he eliminates the little mistakes that kept him from being a superstar. 
Despite his record-breaking completion percentage in '84, critics pointed to his record-breaking interception total. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year Notre Dame's receiving corps really blooms. Milt Jackson's ballerina-like moves and Tim Brown's sheer athletic talent already are obvious. Only Alvin Miller's knee problems and a season full of bumps and bruises for Joe Howard held this group back in '84. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year that Notre Dame gets to take advantage of outstanding depth at linebacker-with Tony Furjanic and Mike Kovaleski and Ron Weissenhofer inside, Robert Banks and Rick DiBernardo and Cedric Figaro outside, and Mike Larkin capable of playing anywhere he wants. Injuries dogged this unit in '84. It won't happen again. 

This will be the year the Irish understand what it means to play with intensity every Saturday. After four years of ups and downs, they've learned their lessons. There won't be any more Air Force games in which everyone seemed to be going through the motions. It won't happen again. 
This will be the year that the magic comes back to Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish had a losing record there in ·'84 for the second straight season, yet only the fifth time in the 55-year history of the stadium. It won't happen again. 

This will be the year Notre Dame moves back into the major bowl picture. Memphis and Honolulu were fun-but they connote 6-5 and 7-4 seasons, not 9-2 or 10-1. It won't happen again. 
All these things could come true for Gerry Faust and the 1985 Notre Dame football team. But don't expect to hear Faust promising them. He knows better. 

He knows the expectations. He knows the limitations. He knows the frustrations. And he knows the revelations that have given him a better handle on the situation after four full seasons with the Irish. 
Gerry Faust knows how much the '85 campaign means. And it's just that simple. 

He's got the nucleus of a good football team, not much question about that. It's all a matter of the pieces falling into place this time. 
Of the 17 letterwinners lost (13 offense, four defense), there are some tough holes to fill. Howard made as many gutty plays as anyone over four years, and the experience of Mark Brooks and Chris Smith was just as valuable for the specialty teams as at fullback. The blocking tandem of Mike Kelley and Larry Williams, wht_:!n healthy as against Penn State and USC, was 
exquisite. The loss that looms largest 
probably is at tight end, where no one on 

the roster can do what Mark Bavaro did the 
last two seasons. 
On defense, the gaps appear at strong safety-where Joe Johnson's emotionalism and hard-hitting became such trademarks­at tackle-where Mike Gann made as many tempo-changing plays as any one defensive player could be expected to make-and at outside linebacker, where the stability of Mike Golic will be missed. 

Forty-two monogram men will be back in '85, spread almost evenly with 20 on offense and 22 on defense. Of the 22 players who started the Aloha Bowl against SMU, eight return on defense and six on offense. Even where starters graduate, there are many obvious fill-ins-if only because the rash of '84 injuries gave so many people a chance to play. 
A year ago, the Irish coaches and players talked about not having to depend on Pinkett to shoulder the whole offensive load-especially after Smith's 1 00-yard rushing contribution in the Liberty Bowl. Yet, the fullbacks never became an intricate part of the groundgaining scheme last fall. Notre Dame's offense was at its best when Pinkett carried the ball 35 or 40 times as he did the last five games of the regular season. With Pinkett averaging 142.8 yards per contest during those five contests, Notre Dame's rushing average skipped to 
186.2 and its total offense mean went to 392.8. 

Ironically, the Irish will have that some opportunity in '85, thanks to the presence of junior Alonzo Jefferson. He played so well in '84 spring drills that he appeared to be another good reason why Pinkett wouldn't have to play every offensive down. But a sprained foot and a separated shoulder kept him from hitting his stride. If Jefferson can play as well as he did in the Aloha Bowl-where he rushed for 60 yards and gained 37 more on two pass receptions-Faust can mix and match his tailbacks. ­
Tag the fullback slot with a question mark. Those contending are unproven at best. Sophomore Frank Starns was recruited · as the heir-apparent a year ago, but he can't be expected to shoulder the entire load. Help may have to come from journeyman runner Ray Carter, gutty walkon Tom Monahan, injury-plagued Pernell Taylor or elsewhere. 
Considering how ineffective Notre Dame's running game proved to be the first six weeks of the '84 campaign, there turned out to be a whole heck_ of a lot of pressure on the shoulders of Beuerlein. He was a shining light in the early going-with five 200-yard throwing days-and there's no reason to think he won't be better as a junior. He ranks among the top 15 NCAA returnees in passing efficiency. 
A top commodity this spring will be developing backup strength behind Beuerlein. The Irish struggled offensively when Beuerlein couldn't play against Air Force, so sophomores-to-be Tom Byrne and Terry Andrysiak must progress. 
Beuerlein has to love his receiving crew. Jackson, Brown, Miller and Reggie Ward give Notre Dame as talented a pool to fill the split end and flanker slots as it has seen in years. All four have experience to boot. In '84, the Irish averaged more passing than rushing yards for only the fourth time in 40 years. It could happen again-despite the presence of Pinkett. 
Who's going to play tight end now that Bavaro ~as graduated? That could be the $64,000 question surrounding the Notre Dame offensive unit. Whoever it is has gigantic shoes to fill. Junior Joel Williams is the only returning letterman at that slot, with one reception to his credit as a freshman· and two as a junior. Classmate Dan Tanczos must rebound from arthro­scopic knee surgery at midseason, while Tom Rehder might be a candidate to return to tight end after playing on the defensive line in '84. 
There's not much new regarding the offensive line. It's big and strong and boasts experience-as it does most every year. Even the loss of two players who earned All-America honors shouldn't do too much to tarnish the image of this group. 
Returning starters are seniors Tim Scannell (he joins Pinkett as an offensive captain) at quick guard, Tom Doerger at quick tackle and Mike Perrino at strong tackle. Look for junior John Askin to take Williams' slot at strong guard-a position he handled extensively in '84 with Williams banged up during much of the early going. 
The logical candidate to move to center is senior Ron Plantz, who served as Kelley's backup there in '83. Last year, he and Doerger split time at quick tackle. Senior Shawn Heffern is another veteran who figures to earn his share of playing time. 
A dark-horse candidate for the MVP award a year ago was kicker John Carney, whose 17-for-19 field-goal record and 25­for-25 PAT mark almost were beyond reproach. He proved, without question, he can kick with tremendous accuracy at almost any distance, even in the muck at USC. Cool as a cucumber no matter what the situation, Carney should be fun to watch the next two seasons. 
A replacement must be found for punter Mike Viracola, who attended graduate school in '84 while handling those chores as a fifth-year senior and fanner walk-on. Senior Hal Von Wyl is the most likely . candidate. 
Notre Dame's defensive losses weren't great in number, so there will be plenty of experienced hands on which to call. The biggest priority will be keeping them all healthy, something that proved almost impossible to do last fall. Notre Dame regulars Tony Furjanic, Mike Kovaleski, Mike Larkin, Joe Johnson, Troy Wilson, Steve Lawrence and Mike Griffin missed a grand total of 21 cumulative games because of their various health woes. That didn't even included the other bumps and bruises that afflicted others on that side of the ball. 
Yet, there is experience and depth enough returning that Gerry Faust figures to have an interesting task just deciding how to 

position his returnees. Of the 22 players 
who accounted for 10 or more tackles in 
'84, 18 of them are back. Seven different 
players intercepted passes in '84-and all 
seven are back. 
The most difficult single loss figures to be Gann at the left tackle slot. Both he and Johnson tied for third in tackles with 60 apiece-but it was Gann who made 19 different tackles behind the line of scrimmage. His 10 sacks represented two­thirds of the team total. 
Look for junior Wally Kleine to take over Gann's role as the big-play specialist. He displayed steady improvement as the season went along-and at 6-8 and 278 there are few defensive linemen around with better physical credentials. 
Junior Mike Griffin became a steady, dependable rock at nose tackle-while Eric Dorsey boasts the strength,. size and experience to play anywhere up front. Senior Greg Dingens is strong on instincts and pass-rush capability, while sophomore Jeff Kunz got his feet wet as a rookie and also should help. 
It's at linebacker, both inside and outside, where the battles for playing time should be most intriguing. 
Seniors Furjanic and Larkin earned the defensive captain designation and could end up playing side by ·side at the two inside slots. Both are coming off nearly identical knee ligament injuries that kept them . sidelined nearly half the '84 season. 
Larkin had been slated to move to one of the outside spots last August, mainly because Kovaleski continued to do such a standout job after earning a shot as a rookie with Larkin out all of '83 with a broken arm. Kovaleski easily ranked as Notre Dame's top tackler in '84 with 48 more than any other player. If he and Furjanic form the inside combo-as they did in the Aloha Bowl-Larkin may. be back in the hunt at the outside positions again. 
Larkin could have plenty of competition 
there, too, with senior DiBernardo, junior Banks and sophomore Figaro all returning. DiBernardo became a crucial figure in the Irish scheme as the '84 campaign wore on, ·while Banks was another unsung hero who started every ballgame and went about his 
business quietly and efficiently while 
finishing only behind Kovaleski in total 
tackles. Figaro got an early baptism with 
Golic hurt in the Purdue opener. He's 
another superb athlete with loads of 
potential.. , 
And don't forget the inside talents of seniors Weissenhofer and John McCabe, each of whom started at least three games last fall. Junior Dave Butler is another valued name at those positions. 
Aligning the secondary will be another Faust springtime task-though the loss of Johnson at strong safety is the sole 
personnel change. 
Senior Pat Ballage, a two-year starter at cornerback, might be the most logical candidate to s~itch back to strong safety. That would leave Troy Wilson and Mike Haywood at the cornerback slots, where each earned his share of starting assign­ments last fall. Junior Hiawatha Francisco finished the campaign as the starter at free safety, though it was classmate Steve Lawrence who began the season there. Both return-as do Brandy Wells, Marv Spence and James Bobb, all of whom will be specialty-team standouts in addition to plying their trade somewhere in the secondary. 
"On paper, it looks like a good group," admits Faust. "But, remember, we felt the same way a year ago if we stayed injury­free-and it didn't happen that way. We had so many injuries on defense, even in areas where we felt we had good depth, that it was tough to keep up. 
"But that's the way it's going to be in college football. We'll lose some people that will hurt, we'll have some freshmen come in and help-and we just have to hope we can keep a fairly-consistent lineup out there. 
"If we can do that with the people we have coming back, I like our chances." 
Consistency might be the key word. 
Gerry Faust has got it in his staff for the first time in five years. Now he'd like to see it translate to victories on the field in the fall. 

'84 Notre Dame Stats ~ 
Won 7, Lost 5 (Home 2-3, Away 4-0, Neutrall-2) 
TEAM STATISTICS Total Offense Yards .........  ND 3701  OPP 3500  RUSHING Pinkett .....  G 11  TC Yds. 275 1105  Avg. 4.0  TD 17  Lg. 66  INTERCEPTION RETURNS No. Yds. Avg.  TD  LG  
Total Plays ............... Yards Per Play ............ Yards Per Play ............ Rushing Yards .•.•.••...•... Attempts ................. Yards Per Rush ...........  784 4.7 336.5 1616 510 3.2  763 4.6 318.2 1917 520 3.7  Smith ...... Brooks ..... Jefferson ... Flemons .... Monahan ... Brown ......  11 11 8 5 10 11  61 34 35 16 2 1  260 131 112 37 17 14  4.3 3.9 3.2 2.3 8.5 14.0  0 3 3 0 0 0  15 12 10 15 10 14  Ballage ....... DiBernardo ... Lawrence ..... Haywood ..... Wilson ....... Larkin .......  3 *3 2 2 2 1  41 *20 26 2 0 6  13.7 6.7 13.0 1.0 0.0 6.0  0 0 0 0 0 0  24 7 25 6 0 6  
Yards Per Game ..........  146.9  174.3  Miller ......  2  1  13  13.0  0  13  Francisco .....  1  -2 -2.0  0  0  
Passing Yards .............. 2085 1583 Attempts ................. 274 243 Completions .............. 157 134 Had Intercepted ........... 19 13 Comp. Percentage ......... .573 .551 Touchdown Passes ........ 9 9 Yards Per Attempt. ....... 7.6 6.5 Yards Per Comp ........... 13.3 11.8 Yards Per Game.......... 189.5 143.9 Punting Yards .............. 1760 2213 Number of Punts .......... 45 60 Average Punt. ............ 39.1 36.9 Had Blocked ............. 0 2 Punt Return Yards .......... 255 158 Number of Returns ........ 36 24 Average Return ........... 7.1 6.6 Kickoff Return Yards ........ 671 604 Number of Returns ........ 34 36 Average Return ....... .'... 19.7 16.8 Interception Return Yards .... *93 158 Number of Interceptions ... *14 19 Average Return ........... 6.6 8.3 Number of Penalties......... 60 57 Penalty Yards ............ 490 471 Fumbles (Lost) .............. 33(13) 31(21) Yards Returned ........... 0 0 Total First Downs ........... 219 203 By Rushing ............... 104' 110 By Passing ............... 104 80 By Penalty............... 11 13 Third Down Conversions ..... 78/169 57/151 Percentage ............... .462 .377 Possession Time ............ 332:43 327:17 Minutes Per Game......... 30:15 29:45 *Totals include one seven-yard fumble return SCORE BY QUARTERS Notre Dame. . . . 59 111 45 64-279  deHueck .... 2 4 12 3.0 0 6 Starns ...... 10 3 8 2.7 0 5 Machtolf.... 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 Carter ...... 2 2 1 0.5 0 1 O'Neill ..... 1 1 1 1.0 0 1 Jackson ..... 10 1 -4 -4.0 0 0 Grooms ..... 3 14 -19 -1.4 0 7 Beuerlein ... 10 58 -75 -1.3 0 18 Notre Dame. 11 510 1616 3.2 23 66 Opponent ... 11 520 1917 3.7 18 66 PASSING GNo. Cmp. Pet. Int. Yds. TD Beuerlein ... 10 232 140 .603 18 1920 7 Grooms ..... 3 39 14 .359 1 134 1 Pinkett ..... 11 2 2 1.000 0 30 1 Viracola .... 11 1 1 1.000 0 1 0 Notre Dame. 11 274 157 .573 19 2085 9 Opponent ... 11 243 134 .551 13 1583 9 RECEIVING G PC Yds. Avg. TD LG Bavaro ....... 11 32 395 12.3 1 24 Jackson ...... 10 28 363 13.0 4 37 Brown ....... 11 28 340 12.1 1 29 Pinkett. ...... 11 19 257 13.5 1 40 Howard ...... 10 13 212 16.3 0 29 Gray ....... ;. 11 13 159 12.2 0 25 Smith ........ 11 9 67 7.4 0 18 Ward ........ 9 6 194 32.3 1 74 Jefferson ..... 8 3 40 13.3 0 27 Williams ..... 7 2 17 8.5 0 12 Miller ........ 2 1 15 15.0 0 15 Brooks ....... 11 1 13 13.0 0 13 Cusack ....... 10 1 7 7.0 0 7 Beuerlein ..... 10 1 6 6.0 1 6  Notre Dame .. 14 93 6.6 0 25 Opponent .... 19 158 8.3 0 27 *Totals include one seven-yard fumble return TACKLES *TOT S FH ATL-Yds. Sacks Kovaleski ... 108 30 24 54 2-4 Banks ...... 68 21 20 27 4-11 Gann ....... 60 19 24 15 9-22 10-105 Johnson .... 60 19 18 23 1-1 Furjanic .... 50 11 20 19 1-5 Ballage ..... 50 21 14 15 Kleine ...... 48 14 19 15 11-25 2-16 McCabe .... 43 14 20 9 1-1 Francisco ... 41 18 11 12 1-3 Griffin ..... 40 5 14 21 2-8 1-4 Larkin ...... 39 9 10 20 2-3 Wilson ..... 36 12 12 12 Weissenhofer 35 16 12 7 1-1 Lawrence ... 34 12 9 13 DiBernardo . 30 11 6 13 2-4 Figaro ...... 30 6 9 15 1-7 Golic ....... 25 13 3 9 1-4 Haywood ... 23 8 5 10 Dingens ..... 20 9 7 4 2-5 2-17 Dorsey ..... 15 2 2 11 Butler ...... 13 2 3 8 Weinle ...... 12 5 4 3 Bars ........ 7 4 2 1 Bobb ....... 6 2 0 4 Willertz ..... 4 1 0 3 Kiernan ..... 3 2 0 1 Spence...... 3 1 1 1 McGuffey ... 2 1 1 0 Rehder ..... 2 0 0 2 Kunz ....... 2 1 1 0 Spruell ..... 1 0 1 0 Roggeman .. 1 1 0 0  
Opponent . . . . . .  49  46  47  70-212  Notre  Dame ..  11  157 2085  13.3  9  74  O'Haren ....  1  0  0  1  
TEAM SCORING  ND  OPP  Opponent ....  11  134 1583  11.8  9  50  *Total tackles= solos+ first hits+ assists  
Total Points ................ 279 212 Average.: ............... 25.4 19.3 Touchdowns ............... 32 27 By Rushing ............... 23 18 By Passing ............... 9 9 By Returns ............... 0 0 By Recovery .............. 0 0 Field Goals (Made-Att) ....... 18120 7/14 Safeties .................... 1 1 PAT-Kick ................ 27127 19121 PAT Run ................ 111 112 PAT-Pass ................ 114 3/ 4 SCORING GTD PAT R-PA s FG TP Pinkett .... 11 18 0/ 0 0/ 0 0 0/ 0 108 Carney .... 11 0 25/25 0/ 0 0 17/19 76 Jackson ... 10 4 0/ 0 0/ 0 0 0/ 0 24  PUNTING G Viracola ...... 12 Von Wyl. .... 1 Notre Dame .. 11 Opponent .... 11 PUNT RETURNS No. Howard ...... 19 Wilson ....... 11 Jefferson ..... 4 Haywood ..... 1 Francisco ..... 1 Notre Dame .. 36 Opponent .... 24  No. Yds. 44 1732 1 28 45 1760 60 2213 Yds. Avg. 142 \ 7.5 84 7.6 17 4.2 7 -7.0 5 5.0 255 7.1 158 6.6  Avg. 39.4 28.0­39.1 36.9 TD 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  LP 51 28 51 51 LG 24 17 -7 7 5 24 17  Passes Broken Up: Ball age 7, Francisco 4, Haywood 3, Lawrence 3, DiBernardo 3, Wilson 2, Johnson 2, Kovaleski 2, Gann 2, Dorsey 1, Weissenhofer 1, Furjanic 1, Figaro 1, Wells 1, Larkin 1, Kleine 1 Fumbles Caused: Gann 3, Griffin 3, Kleine 3, Johnson 2, Golic 1, McCabe 1, Furjanic 1 Fumbles Recovered: Gann 5, Kleine 3, Lawrence 2, DiBarnardo 2, Dingens 2, Wilson 1, Golic 1, McCabe 1, Ballage 1, Weinle 1, Larkin 1 FINAL 1984 STATISTICS INCLUDE REGULAR-SEASON GAMES ONLY. STATS FROM THE '84 ALOHA BOWL AGAINST SMU ARE NOT INCLUDED, AS PER NCAA  
Jefferson ..  8  3  0/ 0  1/ 1  0  -01 0  20  KICKOFF RETURNS  GUIDELINES.  
Brooks .... Ward .....  11 9  3 1  0/ 0 0/ 0  0/ 0 0/ 0  0 0  0/ 0 0/ 0  18 6  Jefferson .....  No. 11  Yds. 229  Avg. 20.8  TD 0  LG 41  
Bavaro .... Beuerlein .. Brown .... Chura ..... Howard ... Team ..... Von Wyl..  11 10 11 1 10 11 1  1 1 1 0 0 0 0  0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 1/ 1 0/ 0 0/ 0 1/ 1  0/ 0 0 01 0 0 0/ 0 0 0/ 0 0 111 0 .01 3 1 0/ 0 0  01 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 111 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0  6 6 6 4 2 2 1  Francisco ..... Brown ....... Howard ...... Smith ... : .... Miller ........ Wells ........ Cusack .......  6 7 4 3 1 1 1  178 121 58 43 21 16 5  29.7 17.3 14.5 14.3 21.0 16.0 5.0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  80 25 17 20 21 16 5  
Notre Dame 11 32 27127  2/ 5  1 18120  279  Notre  Dame ..  34  671  19.7  0  80  
Opponent.  11 27 19/21  4/ 6  1  7/14  212  Oppon.ent ....  36  604  16.8  0  44  
64  








