m -^=6.^-'-»-^^ 
'ante 

FOOTBALL NUMBER 
Volume 83, Number 4 December 7, 1944 
Herein the Scholastic pays tribute to Coach Ed McKeever iinset) and the Fighting Irish 
of 1944 

Price Twenty-five Cents 


^he SYotre Q)ame Scholastic 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritums 
FOUNDED 1S67 

THE STAFF 
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief 

ED ITORI AL STAFF 
GENE DIAMOND ---- Navy Associate Editor ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON Sports Editor BOB OTOOLE ----- Circulation Manager 
COLUMN ISTS 

LIEUT. S. L BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER - The Green Banner BLAIR NATTKEMPER --- Man About the Campus HARRY WALTERS ---- The College Parade GEORGE KRAUSER -- Splinters from the Press Box ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log 
CONTRIBUTORS 

GEORGE DESPOT BOB COCHRAN RON BYERSMITH FRANK GRIMALDI [IM FOY MICHAEL MORANG HARRY SIEMONSMA GREG HALPIN [OE BRESLAW ROBERT MOLNAR ENRIQUE LULLI BOB CLEARY CHARLEY LAPP NEIL BROSCHA 
PHOTOGRAPHY 

CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE 
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. Faculty Advisor 
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for 
mailing at secipal rate of postage. Section 11033, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized 
June 25, 1918. 
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sen'ice, Inc. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manu­script to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre IJame, Indiana. 
Two 


^ ^^Ui^i/tc 
It doesn't take much to get attention when you're a National Championship team, but after you drop a game or two, then, the descendancy from the ladder of 
fame  seems  to be the only  alternative.  
But here's where the exception  to  the  
rule  enters  in — here  at  Notre  Dame.  
For in defeat, the Fighting Irish of '44  
were  as  great  if  not  greater  than  the  
National Champions of '43.  
They left  a great role to live up to,  
_/j  those  gridders  of  '43 when  they  took  
Bill Waddington  leave of the scene — and  consequently  
left  a  huge  question  mark  hovering  

over the campus all the winter and spring. From matur­ity and experience to youth abounding with greenness— that was the fate of the Irish this season. The first re­placement was the young Ed McKeever as head coach and with him three new additions to his staff of assist­ants. But this was only the beginning, for in the spring, only four monogram men had returned to the sod of Cartier Field, until the return of Capt. Pat Filley, after a discharge from the Marine Corps, gave us the fifth. 
There was no griping no alibi-ing. These five men form.ed the nucleus around which a whole new attack was to be projected. Patiently and laboriously the coaches administered the fundamentals of the Notre Dame system while a throng of spirited and eager youngsters looked — wondering what was coming next. Then it all began, and you know the rest; we didn't have the National Championship team that everyone thought we would — we played ten games on our sched­ule, not only the first five, and we did not deviate from the course that led us to the toughest schedule possible 
— Notre Dame is used to a tough one; this year was no different. 
So, proudly each Saturday afternoon, the green-shirted kidoes from Notre Dame were scrapping; they never gave an inch but what they had to. Yes, even in defeat they were great — a greatness that can hardly be appreciated by all America but only by the boys who eat, sleep and talk with the Fighting Irish of '44. For us, that question mark was answered with exclamation points. For it is when doubt is high that a team proves its true worth and to us here, they were worth every bit of a million!—Bill Waddington 
•EpVC^RD!G;^ppE^EB^,;-< 
• Acting Director -of: Athletics-Jufd;Headv€oach_^^^^ :f^^''^f'^'--^'-:-t^:i$rS^^ 
 "The Gilbert Label" means QuaKty—Quality 

that means "years of wearing pleasure" ^ 
Home of DOBBS HATS--HICKEY-FREEMAN, SOCIETY BRAND. BURBERRY, ALPAGORA EAGLE and BRITISH-R CLOTHES 
Exclusive with this Quality Store 
Tffe MOD CRN 


GILBERT'S 
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN Street 
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN! 
Four 
The 1944 Notre Dame Coaching Staff 
EDWARD C. McKEEVER 

•^ Notre Dame's acting head football coach is a native of Texas. Ed spent his freshman year at Notre Dame, then transferred to Texas Tech, where he starred as a halfback on the 1932-33-34 teams. During these years Tech won 30 of 35 games played. After graduation, Ed became backfield coach at Tech under Pete Cawthon, present Brooklyn Tigers' professional team mentor. In 
Acting Head Coach McKeever 

1939, McKeever joined Frank Leahy at Boston College as Leahy's backfield coach and first assistant. When Leahy came to Notre Dame in 1941 as head coach, McKeever came with him. Dui'­ing Coach Leahy's illness in 1942, Mc­Keever ran the team for three games. When Leahy left Notre Dame in May, 1944, to accept a commission as lieuten­ant in the United States Navy, Ed was named his successor for the duration. Popular and competent, McKeever gives every promise of continuing the tradi­tional success of Notre Dame on the gridiron. 
• 
HUGH J. DEVORE 

•^ A native of New Jersey, where he starred in football at St. Benedict's Prep School in Newark, Hughie Devore entered Notre Dame in 1930. After playing on the freshman team, Devore gained a starting berth at end as a sophomore on the 1931 team, and was a regular for the next three years. Named team co-captain and AU-Ameri­college football. Devore was assistant freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1934, then accepted a line coaching job under Jimmy Crowley at Fordham, where he remained during 1935-36-37. In 1938 he became head coach at Providence College in Rhode Island, staying there for four years, before moving on to Holy Cross, where he was assistant to head coach Auk Scanlan. In the spring of 1943, Hughie joined the Notre Dame staff as a line coach. 
CLEM F. CROWE 
-^ Clem Crowe is the first of the six famous Crowe boys of Lafayette, In­diana, who won monograms at Notre Dame during the years 1923-39. Captain and end on the 1925 football team, Clem was a member of the varsity squad for three years, winning mono­grams each season. He also won three monograms in basketball, and was honored as an All Western selection in his senior year. Following his grad­uation in 1926, Crowe was appointed head football coach and director of athletics at St. Vincent's College in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. He had a suc­cessful career there, and remained un­til 1932, when he accepted a position at Xavier University in Cincinnati, as basketball and football coach. His rec­ord there was one of the best among the small colleges of the nation. This past spring he was given a leave of ab­sence from Xavier to return to Notre Dame as head basketball coach, suc­ceeding for the duration, Lt. Edward W. Krause, of the United States Marine Corps. Clem also acts as a line coach on the football staff. 
• 
C. I. (JAKE) KLINE 
-^ A native of Pennsylvania, Jake Kline entered Notre Dame in pre-World War I days, and played on the 1915-16-17 baseball teams, captaining the latter. His feat of hitting three home runs in one game in 1917 to beat Michigan is still talked about whenever Notre Dame fans gather for talkfests. Kline passed up several big league offers to enlist in the Army in 1917, and spent 1918 and 1919 overseas. After several years managing minor league clubs, Jake returned to Notre Dame in 1931, where he became assistant freshman football coach. In 1934 he was named head baseball coach, a position he has held ever since. In addition, he has also been an assistant football coach since that time. Kline holds a full professor­ship in the department of mathematics. 
WALTER I. ZIEMBA 
•^ Wally Ziemba w^as bom in Ham­mond, Indiana, where he was educated in the public school system, and at­tended Hammond High School. At Hammond High he gained a state-wide reputation as a fine football prospect, and showed his versatility by playing end one year, fullback his second year and tackle in his junior and senior years. He entered Notre Dame in the Fall of 1939, and played tackle on the frosh team of that year. The following Fall he gained a varsity tackle berth. In 1941, Coach Leahy shifted Ziemba to center, where he was an immediate success. In 1942, in spite of knee in­juries, Ziemba's performance at the pivot post was good enough to win All-Anierican honoz's. Ziemba joined the Jlarine Corps after graduation, but was given an honorable discharge because of physical disabilities in July, 1943. He became a member of the Irish .staff last Fall. 

can in 1933, Devore gained  a  reputation  The coaching staif (left to right): Adam Walsh, Hugh Devore. Jake Kline.  
as  one  of the  most  vicious blockers  in  Ed McKeever, Clem Crowe. Wally Ziemba.  
Fiv e  

• ADAM WALSH -^ Captain of the undefeated 1924 na­tional championship Notre Dame team, and an All-American selection as center that year, Adam Walsh returns to Notre Dame after 20 years' successful coaching at four other schools. Following his 
Assistant Coach Miller 

graduation in 192-5, Walsh became ath­letic director and head football coach at Santa Clara on the Pacific Coast. He re­mained there until 1929, when he be­came head line coach at Yale Univer­sity. In 1930 he moved on to Harvard for a year as line coach there. The fol­lowing year he became head football coach at Bowdoin in Maine, and turned out successful teams there during the next nine years. This spring he was giv­en a leave of absence to join the Notre Dame coaching staff. Adam won seven monograms at Notre Dame, three each in football and track, one in basketball. • CREIGHTON E. MILLER 
•^ Coming from Wilmington, Delaware. Creighton Miller did his prep school foot­balling at Alexis I. DuPont High school where he won a total of 13 letters—four in football, and three each in basketball, baseball and track. His father, M. Harry Miller captained the 1909 team, and his four uncles, Don, Gerald, Walter, and Ray all played for the Irish. Don was one of the Four Horsemen of 1924. Tom, Irish during the seasons of '40-'42. Last year, Creighton played a left half posi­tion for the Irish from which he was named an almost unanimous All-Amer­ican, also being awarded the All-America captain's trophy by Christy Walsh. After receiving a degree here this June, Creighton returned to the University as the backfield coach this year. Creighton's last football appearance was the 1944 All-Star game in which he made the first All-Star touchdown on a pass from Glenn Dobbs. 
• FRANK W. LEAHY •^ Now on leave of absence from the University, serving as a lisutenant in the Navy, Frank Leahy is the man who pro­duced last year's National Championship team. His five year coaching record has produced 44 victories, five defeats and three ties. A product of the Rockne school of Irish footballers, Leahy was a tackle on the National Champion 1929 eleven. He started his coaching under the late Tommy Mills at Georgetown, then moved to Fordham where he developed the Seven Blocks of Granite as line tutor under Head Mentor Jimmy Crowley. Suc­ceeding Gil Dobie at Boston College, Leahy led the Eagles to the Cotton and Sugar Bowls in successive years. His 1940 eleven on the Heights of Chestnut 
Hill claimed the National Championship on the basis of an undefeated ten game schedule and a post season victory over likewise, undefeated Tennessee. Answer­ing the call of hit; first love, Notre Dame, Leahy once more returned to the shadow of the Dome and with him he brought backfield coach McKeever. The Irish rang up the first undefeated season since Eockne in 1941, the first year of his reign. A 7-2-2 record in 1942 and the Na­tional Championship Irish of 1943 com-' plete his part of the story. 
After his departure for the Navy, he was succeeded by his backfield assistant, Ed McKeever, an earnest worker and well-liked by all the boys under him. Leahy's observance of the team in sum-
Lieut. Frank Leahy 
mer drills, after he completed his indoc­trination course at Princeton caused him to say to McKeever, "You've come a long way with them, Ed." It was a real trib­ute to the man who was taking over in his stead. And predicting that the Irish would lose three. Army, Navy and Great Lakes, Leahy missed only one call—a call that was predicted wrongly because of the spii'it that Ed McKeever instilled in a youthful squad that would never give way. 

Creight's older brother, played for the Line Coach Adam Walsh demonstrates a correct block. 
Six 
m.'immwmmmmi^m.m. 

"•i PV 

i^'4^* 1 ,1 i 
•\*-s '**•<!• ,;' 
Ist row left to right: White, May, Scott, Welch, Rovai, Toczylowski, Miezkowski, Agnone, Manzo, Rademaker (Mgr.). 2nd row left to right: Hauscher (Mgr.), Terlep, Angsman, Kelly, Maggioli, Adams, Capt. Filley, Sullivan, Yacobi, Nemeth, Ladyko. 3rd row left to right: McKeever (Coach), Devore (Coach), Szyroki, Parry, Ducato, Renaud, Dance­wicz, McDermett, Ruggerio, Gasparella, Ray, Mastrangelo, Ziemba (Coach), Crowe (Coach). 4th row left to right: Fallon, Miller, Dacey, Cadieux, Ratterman, Clasby, Hun­toon, Izzo, Eiler, Fastuca, Burke. Sth row left to right: Bogdiewicz, Ganey, Stewart, Lassard, Lebreau, Debevoc, Carr, Lanigan, Ricciardi, Hull. 6th row left to right: Bresnehan, Debueno, Nichols, Waybright, Favret, Nails, Glaab, Dailer, Heberer. 7th row left to right: Martz, Skoglund, Krall, Schuster, Brill Kronback, Harmon, Hartup, Walsh (Coach). 8th row left to right: O'Connor, Guthrie, Limont, Westenkirchner, Lechner, Endress, Lahay, Rebman, Franklin, Raymond. 9th row left to right: Molloy, Bush, Beaullieu, Jan­sen, Davlin, Janson, Yakemonis, Lee. 10th row left to right: Bernhardt, D'Alonzo, Berezney, Clarey, Schriber, Slattery, Snyder, Fitzgerald, Ililf. 

Notre Dame 58; Pittsburgh 0 
Operating in the same "T" formation that carried the Blue and Gold banner to the top of the 1943 pigskin throne, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, with Coach Ed McKeever in the driver's seat, hit on all cylinders as they completely demolished the Pitt Panthers before 60,000 spectators at Pitt Stadium in the Steel City. The Irish opening eleven was supposed to have quite a struggle on its hands in the form of the experienced Panther squad, but it took only one half to deflate the buoyant hopes of the Pittsburgh eleven. 
The heavy Red and White forward wall received a thorough going over from the hard-charging Irish line­men and the fast flying Notre Dame backs. The well di­versified Irish attack kept the courageous Pitt eleven on the defense most of the game and frequent fumbles brought on by the pile-driving tackles of the green-clad defenders hurt the Pitt cause no end. 
Notre Dame quarterbacks, Frank "Boley" Dance­wicz and Big Joe Gasparella, threw pigskin lightning at the Panther defense, pitching five passes that were good for six-pointers. Bob Kelly, the sensational right half from last year's champs, crossed the double stripe four times and added two extra points to count for 26 points in the 35 minutes he played, and established himself as one of the nation's leading backs. George Sullivan and John "Tree" Adams played two terrific games at the tackles, the "Massachusetts Marvel" proving a bulwark on defense and Big John opening up gaping holes in the left side of the Red and White line for the Irish backs. 
Harry Keck, Sports Editor, 
Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph: 

"Lightning struck the Pitt football team and stunned more than 50,000 spectators at the Stadium yesterday as the Notre Dame football team staged a track meet at the expense of the Pan­thers to roll up a 58-0 margin in a game which was expected to be cl^se." 
Captain Pat Filley, Fred Rovai, and Johnny Mas­trangelo plugged up the guard posts in every capable fashion, and Bill O'Connor and Bob Skoglund per­formed well as flankmen. In the backfield, besides Dancewicz, Kelly, and Gasparella, "Chick" Maggioli and Elmer Angsman, at left half and fullback, respec­tively, turned in some fancy runs to show future promise. 
The 1944 season was only tsn minutes old when Bob Kelly took a 14 yard pass from Dancewicz and scam­pered 22 yards for the initial Irish tally. For the remain­der of the period the score stood at 6-0, but in the sec­ond quarter Kelly crossed the Panther goal two more times. The first score was a result of a 13 yard Dance­wicz to Kelly aerial and the second came when the Chi Flyer carried over from the 5 to climax an 81 yard march. Kelly's conversion brought the halftime lead to 19-0 and the rest of the contest proved to be a Pitt nightmare. 
In the third canto Kelly broke over right tackle and raced 85 yards to touchdown territory. Then Dance­wicz hit O'Connor in the end zone from the Pitt 8 and Gasparella and George Terlep hooked up in a 65 yard touchdown pass. The fourth TD of the period came when Gasparella quarterback-sneaked over from the Panther one. The final two markers were chalked up on Steve Nemeth's one yard plunge and Gasparella's 22 yard pass to Mark Limont.—George Krauser 
Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune: 
"Sure, and it was a great day today for the Kellys. And it was a great day for all the other followers of the Irish in this crowd of 55,000 as the Notre Dame lads, led by Chicago's Bob Kelly, who scored the first four touchdowns, smothered a hapless Pittsburgh team, 58 to 0, in the opening game of a cam­paign to defend the national college football championship." 
Eight 

Notre Dame 26; Tulane 0 
Opening the 1944 edition of its home season, October 7 th. Notre Dame's youthful grid machine ground out a 26-0 victory over Tulane University to gain recogni­tion as the nation's number one team for the 12th con­secutive week. A lovely autumn day attracted 45,000 fans to the campus Stadium who watched the Irish roll up a total of 438 yards on the ground and in the air. 
Apparently the local gridders refused to be daunted by the rival propaganda, which probably accounts for the decided lack of timidity on the part of the Fighting Irish, who didn't let "one of the strongest backfields in the nation" get inside the 25 yard line. The highly touted Green Wave line made hardly a splash against the Notre Dame forward wall. 
Joe Renfroe kicked off and recovered the ball him­self on the Notre Dame 48 yard line after it had careened crazily off Johnny Ray's chest. In four plays, Tulane m.oved the pigskin to the 27, but were forced to punt. Bob Kelly returned to his own nine. Two dashes by Kelly and a 32 yard jaunt by Elmer Angsman moved the Irish into enemy territory, only to be halted on the 22. Renfroe kicked once more to Kelly on the Irish 31. Dancewicz, Kelly, Angsman and Maggioli began cracking alternately at the "Green Wave's" line. 
A pass, Dancewicz to Kelly, on the initial play of the second quarter rang up the first six counters for Notre Dame. Bob was in the clear on the goal line and "Boley's" pass was perfect. Kelly's attempted conver­sion was wide. 
Tulane was unable to gain following the kickoff, so, booted out on the Notre Dame 28. Passes to Maggioli and Kelly netted two first downs, and an end sweep by Kelly moved the ball to the 
18. Angsman smashed into the end zone, but the play was called back for holding. Another pass this time with Gasparelli flinging to Bill O'Connor, who lateralled to Kelly, moved the ball down to the 14. Big Joe tossed another aerial to O'Connor on the four. Angsman bucked over and Kelly converted, giving Notre Dame a 13-0 margin as the half ended. 
Shortly after the start of the second half. Kelly punted out on Tulane's seven. The Green Wave ad­vanced to the 36, then, Renfroe quick-kicked to the Notre Dame 11. Bucks by Maggioli and Angsman brought a first-down on the 25. Dancewicz passed to Maggioli on the 50, who scooted 20 more yards before being knocked out of bounds. Boley whipped another to Kelly who was downed on the 10. Set back to the 25 on a penalty, Dancewicz hit Maggioli on the three. On the next play, Maggioli sliced over for the score. Kelly converted to give his mates a 20-0 lead. 
A Tulane fumble recovered by Ken Schuster gave the Irish possession on their own 46. Georga Terlep and Steve Nemeth split up the yardage to Tulane's 21 where the Wave held. Dancewicz's fourth-down pass was in­tercepted by "Dub" Jones on the 10, who raced back to the 36. Chalking up two first downs on power plays, the Wave was stopped short on the Irish 25. Taking posses­sion, the Blue and Gold began blasting away at the Tulane defense. Maggioli swept around right end for 20 yards. Two plunges by Kelly netted another first down and a screen pass, Dancewicz to O'Connor, made still another on the Wave's 23. Maggioli circled right end for the fourth Irish tally. Kelly's try was blocked —now the board read 26-0—Jack McGrane 
,^o^ 
Angsman going through for precious yardage in Ttilane encounter 
Nine 




Notre Dame 64; Dartmouth 0 
Two historicallj' famous events—^the Boston Tea Party and the Boston Massacre—^were reenacted in Fenway Park. October 14, as Notre Dame's vaunted and unchecked gridiron gang steamrollered Dart­mouth's willing but hapless Indians, 64-0. The "T" party—1944 Notre Dame version—^was staged with such effectiveness that despite numerous substitutions and the inclement weather, the Ivy League entry's efforts seemed inept and futile. 
An over-capacity gallery of 40,000—pro-N.D. to the core—came to see the famed Midwesterners shake dov^n the thunder from the sky and joyfully remained until the end of the rout even though the young lads in green also shook down some intermittent drizzles, a fog, and, at last, a torrent of rain. The slaughter is clearly reflect­ed in the statistics, the winners racking up 19 downs to six for Earl Brown's hopefuls; netting 429 big yards from scrimmage by rushing compared to a negative 18 and 128 through the air as against 111. So marked was their superiority that only once did the Fighting Irish punt ,a mighty 57 yard effort by AU-American candi­date Bob Kelly in the first period. 
Notre Dame was stymied in its first march and Dartmouth took over on its own six. However, that was the end of the Big Green's real resistance, for it was only a minute later that Frank "Boley" Dancewicz crossed the double stripe from the one to cap a 35 yard drive. Kelly's kick from placement was wide and the Redmen held for the rest of the period. Then the deluge came. 
With the pigskin on the Indian 38 the smashing Irish backs needed only five tries to stretch their total to 12. This time it was Kelly who went over from the five but again missed the placement. Joe Gasparella, Dancewicz's alternate, added another on a 21 yard quarterback sneak the very next time the winners had the ball. Terlep's attempted conversion missed fire. Full­back Elmer Angsman was next. His tally came from the nine on a line plunge after Dartmouth had been halted and had punted to mid-field. Again the try for point missed. Shortly after, Angsman's sub, John Corbisiero, accounted for No. 5 as he bowled over from eight yards out. For the fifth time the try for P.A.T. was muffed, making the half-time score 30-0. 
Little Nunzio Marino, making his initial appearance for the Blue and Gold, took over the spotlight in the third period and sprinted 55 yards the first time he handled the ball. Terlep's placement made the score 37 to 0. Here the tempo slowed a bit as a pass interception by Fritts temporarily halted Notre Dame. The Red staved off further trouble until Terlep, Corbisiero, and the din:iinutive Marino smashed and dashed to the three. On the second play of the final period, Terlep found the end zone and complemented his touchdown with the conversion point. Pete Berezney recovered a Dartmouth bobble on the ensuing kickoff and two plays later Terlep notched tcuchdo".vn No. 8 by hurrying around end for 33 yards. His conversion made the N.D. margin 51 points. 
In the final minutes Notre Dame thwarted an Indian threat on the N.D. 35 and Steve Nemeth took command getting eight yards through the line and then navigat­ing 57 on an end sweep. Just before the final gun, the Irish were handed another scoring chance as the Red-men fumbled on their own 20. Clasby carried the leather over and ended the wild scoring.—John Feeney 
mMlBM 
sto^

sti^' 
ft' at* 
Dan Hcmley and Mike 

Ten 



Notre Dame 28; Wisconsin 14 
Before an electrified home crowd of 40,000, the Fighting Irish chalked up their fourth straight victory by stunning the Wisconsin Badgers with two quick touchdowns and then coasting to a 28-13 triumph. 
On Notre Dame's second play from scrimmage. Bob Kelly, flashy right halfback, scooted through a hole at right tackle and raced 51 yards to cross the double-stripe after a minute and 15 seconds of playing time had elapsed. Before the crowd could recover from this bit of "the amazing," Bill O'Connor recovered Jug Girard's fumble on the Wisconsin 10 and set the stage for Kelly's second plunge across. After the Irish had set up this 12-0 lead in the lirst period their superiority was never in doubt. 
Although Harry Stuhldreher fielded a hard, trying eleven, the crushing form and blending speed of the "T" formation was too much. Besides, the rippling of­fensive displayed by the backfield, the line play was spectacular. George Sullivan starting his first game at end teamed up with Art Mergenthal to form an impreg­nable left wing. The stout forward wall was the big factor in holding the feared Badger back, Earl Girard, to 20 yards in 15 attempts. 
The Dairymen from Wisconsin became the first team to cross the Notre Dame goal line. This game showed the weakness in the reserve department for the Irish—a factor that was to count heavily later. 
The opening of the game saw Kelly returning 
Eliott's kickoff to the Notre Dame 35. Then "Boley" Dancewicz sneaked to the 49 for the initial first down. On the next play, Kelly made his sparkling 51 yard run. On the third play after the returned kick-off, Girard, attempting to pass, was trapped on his own 10 where he fumbled and O'Connor recovered. After two successive plunges failed, Kelly went over center for six points. 
A new Notre Dame team started the second quarter but it failed to add any new luster to the scoreboard. After an exchange of punts, Thompson and Girard com­bined to carry the ball to the Irish four but on the next play, Girard was downed on the 11—thus the first real scoring threat against Notre Dame was stopped as the gun went off to end the first half. 
The next two points were annexed by the Fighting Irish when Thompson took the second half kickoff on his own two yard line and ran back over the goal for a safety—an apparent mistake on his part or just a hope that the judges would be with him in calling it a touch-back, but no soap. It was then 14-0. Two plays later, Elmer Angsman broke through that fatal right tackle spot and sprinted 35 yards to pay dirt. Mergenthal's block of Elliott's punt and an Irish recovery gave the latter the ball on the visitors' 31. Gasparella heaved one to Chick Maggioli on the 10 and he went across un­scathed. Another Irish touchdown was called back be­cause of an off-side penalty aften Angsman thrilled the audience with his dazzling 75 yard run. Two plays later the officials apologized as they discovered that it w^as Wisconsin who was off-side on the touchdown run—^but it was too late then. 
A pass, Girard to Mead, marked the first tally to be scored against Notre Dame in four games. Now 28-7. In the last stanza, the Red and White pushed the ball across once more as Holmes went over from the six. 
—Jim Carey 

Coach Ed McKeever pIoYs ev­ery position, and for 60 min­utes, then adds a good wind sprint at the half. 
Courtesy, South Bend Tribune 
Eleven 


Notre Dame 13; Illinois 7 
The quick thinking of Bob Kelly and Chick Maggioli brought the Irish their fifth straight win of the 1944 sea­son. They defeated Illinois 13-7 before 65,114 people in Illinois Memorial Stadium, October 28. 
Illinois put Notre Dame in the hole on the third play that they had the ball. Quarterback Don Greenwood handed the oval to Claude Young who outran the entire Irish team to the goal line 74 yards away. Greenwood booted the extra point to make the score 7-0. This was the first time during the season that N.D. was behind. 
The Irish drove back to a score late in the first per­iod. The score came after a fumble recovery by Fred Rovai on the Illini 16-yard' line. Kelly did the honors, going over from the two to make the score 7-6. Frank Dancewicz's pass for the extra point was no good. 
The winning counter came in the fourth period. Dancewicz flipped a pass to Kelly who quickly later­aled to Maggioli. Maggioli then ran along the east side­line to paydirt and victory. The play covered 71 yards. Maggioli kicked the extra to assure their 13-7 win. 
Illinois had two touchdowns called back because of penalties. The first was a 48-yard jaunt by Young, which was nullified by an Illini offside. The second was scored by Greenwood, but was called back because of holding. 
Statistically Notre Dame was beaten, but bad. lUi­>iois had a decided lead in first downs and rushing, while the Irish took all passing honors. The Illini got 14 fixst downs to Notre Dame's eight. They also out-rushed the Irish 343 yards to 132 yards. Notre Dame completed four out of ten passes, while Illinois com­pleted one out of ten. Notre Dame gained 102 yards on passes to Illinois' 34. 
At the beginning of the game the Irish could not gauge the speed of the Illinois backfield. This was shown by Young's 74-yard run. Twice Paul Patterson's speed got him into the clear. Both times he was brought down from the rear by John Adams. The first time Adams made the tackle despite being clipped by an Illinois man. 
The game was a little rough in spots. Young's head happened to be in the way and was either used as a seat or a stepping stone. He was unable to play in the sec­ond half of the game. In turn Mike Davlin of N.D. was clipped in such a way that his kneebone was chipped. He was lost for the season. 
Coach McKeever used a 6-3-2 defense to check the running power of the Illinois backfield. On defense he would send in Joe Westenkircher for Captain Pat Filley, Mike Davlin for Bill O'Connor, Marty Wendell for Maggioli, and John Corbisiero for Elmer Angsman. The field announcer got so tired of calling names that he finally just called their numbers. 
Chick Maggioli went out in a blaze of glory. The Illinois game was his last game for Notre Dame before the Marine Corps transferred him to further duties. Several other Naval trainees also were moved on. 
—Pete Brown 

Leo Fischer, Chi. Herald-American: "When they start compiling record books for the 1944 football season, his­torians will show that the score of to­day's gamf> in Memorial Stadium was Notre Dame, 13; Illinois 7. It's too bad that some means can't be devised for those who write the records to indicate on that bare line of type the drama, the tragedy, the emotional peaks and the heroics which two fine groups of young men and some 65,114 spectators exper­ienced on this beautiful Indian Summer afternoon." 
Chick Maggioli blocking for Bob Kelly in Tulane game. This same combine turned defeat into victory at Cham­paign. 
T Tw e 1 V e 


Navy 32; Notre Dame 13 
Baltimore and the U. S. Naval Academy played host 
to the Irish, Saturday, November 4, and a fatal day it 
was for an unbeaten Notre Dame eleven. Facing our 
young linemen were seasoned and muscular giants who 
stopped any running play sent their way, and for its 
own offensive strength. Navy had many backs who 
seemed to be able to romp any place they had a mind 
to go. 

Before 63,000 astonished people in Baltimore's larg­
est athletic plant, the 1944 edition of Annapolis football 
power ran through and around an outclassed Irish line 
to the tune of 32 to 13. This was the greatest number of 
points that any Navy team in 18 attempts, ever scored 
against any Notre Dame team. The Navy pounced 
early to score twelve points in the first quarter and kept 
the scoring kettle boiling by notching three more touch­
downs before the afternoon was over. 

Only in the second touchdown drive did such a 
modern weapon as the forward pass intrude. The other 
four came by the straight football route, behind block­
ing that was primitive in its savagery. That truthfully 
measures the difference in the ability of the two lines, 
and explains how Navy dashed the hopes of any Na­
tional Championship, residing in South Bend this year. 
Hardly had the game got under way when Navy lived up to its pregame reputation as a fumbling team, when Bill Barron, one of the many Navy backs, fum­bled a Kelly punt on his own 38, and Elmer Angsman recovered it after some pursuit on the Navy twenty yard stripe. Notre Dame went that twenty yards to score a touchdown with the ball under Angsman's arms. The referee saw Notre Dame's backfield in motion, so the play was promptly nullified and the penalty assess­ed and the ball was soon lost on downs. For the rest of 
Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune: "There comes a time in the life of every football team when fight and dar­ing aren't enough. That occasion arrived for Notre Dame today and the Irish ".vent down in defeat, 32-13, before one of the strongest squads that has come out of the United States Naval Academy in many years." 
the half, it was all Navy. Taking the ball on Notre 
Dame's 32 after an exchange of kicks. Bill Barron, on 
a reverse,, ate up 27 of the remaining yards and then the 
strongest Navy back of the day, Clyde Scott, behind 
wicked blocking, bulldozed his way over the Irish line 
and scored the first Navy touchdown with Bob Kelly 
hanging on. Not much later Scott went over for his sec­
ond score and that was that for the half. The second 
half opened with Navy marching down the field in 
twelve or fifteen yard spurts to score another touchdown 
and Fred Earley, formerly a Notre Dame extra point 
specialist, kicked the point. 
It was at this point that Boley Dancewicz started throwing strikes. He completed four rifle like passes to bring the ball to the Navy five, where Bob Kelly plowed through a thicket of enemy arms for the first Irish score. Navy came back to score again, making the scoreboard read 25-7. But the Irish, still not beaten, came back on the strength of the right arm of Frank Dancewicz. Marching 78 yards on passes and remarkable catches by O'Connor and Guthrie, the ball was taken to the Navy three where Kelly went over for his second score. 
The Navy line told the whole story of that sad day. This wall of flesh would tear such holes in the immature Notre Dame line that the Navy backs could run five yards into the secondary before a finger would touch them. Kelly, despite his poor yardage, stood cut as the best back on the field, and it wasn't often that the Navy would attempt to puncture Sullivan's side of the line. Yet this youthful team was never beaten, no matter how badly it was hurt, and one sportswriter said. ". . . They sent a boy out on a man's errand, and the boy came back with abrasions, contusions and just plain lumps."—Hank Slamin 
The den oi activity before practice — getting equipment from "Mac's" room. 
Thirteen 

<a 
'.I 
.:1 Army 59; Notre Dame 0 
-i Army had planned year after year, till they had run the count to thirteen and then let loose with a ground and aerial attack never before paralleled in football 
'• t 
•.••I 
-I history. It might be common t9 see a score of 59-0 in these days of football, but for a Notre Dame team to lose by that margin—well, that just "ain't" in the 
•3 everyday books—^but that's what they did—gave the 
•.i 
Irish their worst defeat in 56 seasons of football. 
After five successful attempts, the kids who reside within the shadows of the Golden Dome got their first taste of defeat against Navy and now they had to mess around with Army on the following week. No matter what paper figures said, this was still the game of the year in everyone's book. But the Cadets in the high­lands of the Hudson were more than an even match for any college team composed of 17-, 18-, and 19-year-olds. 
SI Their impressive record of one-sided wins over North Carolina, Brov/n, Pittsburgh, Coast Guard Academy, Duke, and Villanova was highly indicative of their offensive strength. 
i Ed McKeever was making no excuses on the local scene for the poor showing of the team against the Mid­dies but concentrated on an attack that might hamper the Grey and Gold. Coach Earl Blaik was taking no chances in losing this one. He knew that Notre Dame was inexperienced and that a crew of seasoned veterans could run circles around them, but then, that undefined factor called "the Spirit of Notre Dame" might pop up 
ygtgyg&j. 

ito 

-H " ^ 
)• . 1 ' ~. K^ "•' • { •^ ^^ 
, 
• ••\ 
'-•'rmeaeSSM. • 
^-^!^SS 
:V" 


P':­
at any time and spoil a pleasant afternoon, and so Col. Blaik definitely decided not to speculate with any of his maneuvers—everyone was to be a potential pay-off play—and it turned out that nine of them were. 
After 76.000 gridiron fans crowded subways, taxis and sidev/alks in making good their path to Yankee Stadium, then reclining in the seats provided and some not provided, the opening kickoff took place. After re­ceiving the opening kickoff on their own 13, the Irish fell a yard short of first down and kicked to the Army on the Irish 45. A sustained drive carried to the five, but there in four plays the Cadets were seemingly halted. However, a penalty to the Irish one gave Doug Kenna the initial opportunity to crash over on the fourth down for the first of a flood of touchdowns. 
Before the period had ended, the Irish goal had been crossed two additional times and a 20-0 margin pre­vailed. From here on. Army showed no mercy and Notre Dame felt the full blows of three great Cadet teams. Only once did the Irish offense move and that advance was halted with Notre Dame on the Army 15 as the first half ended. Six interceptions were, tliroughout the sequence of events, converted into scores. Punt runbacks were a constant menace as the soldiers struck again and again. 
All America knows how the rest of the story goes. The Irish injury list grew in such proportions as to almost equal the number of available men on the squad. The whole heart of the Fighting Irish was in that one. Even in defeat they fought back. It was one time in which Goliath was not stopped by David. The heroic efforts of a gallant team of youthful, .-restful kids were shattered by the nation's leading eleven. 
But the Blue and Gold don't mind letting the Army win once in a while; after all they've come out on top only six times in 31 contests to date. 
—Bill Waddington 
Stan Woodward, 
New York Herald Tribune: 

"Scoring touchdowns in most waj's known to man the explosive Army foot­ball team beat Notre Dame, 59-0, in Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, thus setting a new record for points run up against the Irish and atoning for a series of gi-idiron indignities which had been uninterrupted except by ties, since 1931." 
The Irish invode Gotham and fill the Yankee Stadium with ^V,, "Subway Alumni." 
*SI^5SS^^i^«^^^^Si?SS3^®«}2^KJS5 ^sm ,_„__!„• »H!mPB»«i 
^^^^^^^^^^S^^^^^S^^^^SS^PS^?^^ 




Notre Dame 21; Northwestern 0 
After two gloomy Saturdays in foreign climes, the "Fighting Irish" resumed their winning ways. Novem­ber 18, with a decisive 21-0 victory against the claw-less Wildcats of Northwestern. From beginning to end they convinced the "show-me" crowd of 48,000 that they had more than enough power, speed, and deception for the down-trodden battlers from Evanston, and like­wise proved they were on the comeback trail after the painful episodes in Baltimore and New York. 
Among other highlights, the game also unveiled a fast, tricky, 155 pound flyer, one Jim Brennan, who scampered for two dazzling touchdown runs in the opening minutes, from which Northwestern never recov­ered. However, it wasn't until the final period that Notre Dame could set off a third touchdown charge for secur­ity purposes. 
Injured Captain Pat Filley won the toss and Notre Dame received, beginning operations on the Blue and Gold 35. Without pause the ball was lugged to the N.U. 41 and the stage was set for touchdown number 1, as Jim Brennan took the ball, hammered through his right side, weaved out and then in, and outraced the secon­dary over the goal. Nemeth added the point. Shortly after Notre Dame kicked off, Johnny Yungwirth fum­bled on his 45, alert tackle George Sullivan recovered and the Irish offense took over. Quickly Gasparella, Marino and Brennan slashed to the 29 whereupon Bren­nan grabbed the pigskin again and duplicated his trick of a few minutes earlier. Nemeth boosted the score to 14-0. 
Toward the end of the first period, Northwestern threatened for its first—and last—^time of the afternoon, after intercepting a pass from Dancewicz on the Irish 
30. Funderburg and Connors drove to the 16, but Johnny Yungwirth was nailed by Waybright on the 29. At this point, pass interference put the ball on the 9 and Funderburg bolted to the 2. But here the Irish forward 
—^ :4?^?^^?t*5^^^ 
m^^-r^ 

wall stopped the Wildcats cold for three downs and Notre Dame took over. After this challenge. Northwest­ern was checkmated for the remainder of the half—and of the game. 
Late in the second, and throughout the entire third quarter, Irish backs were on the move but the attacks bogged down when prospects seemed ripe for a third score. In the fourth period, however, the Irish applied the final touches by a series of plain, hard, smashes into the Wildcat's innards. The climax came as Marty Wen­dell churned over from the 7, aided by key blocks by Frank Szymanski and Steve Nemeth. Nemeth notched the last of three perfect place kicks. 
Meanwhile, the statistics told the same story as the Irish piled up 335 yards on the ground and added 47 by air as against the Wildcats — over the turf and" — in the stratosphere.—Tom McNally 
Teamwork: 
As Nemeth and Szymansid clear the way. Wendell barges through a gaping hole, churning and slashing from the seven-yard line to a touchdown. 
-Courtesy. South Bend Tribune 
Fifteen 



Notre Ddme 21; Georgia Tech 0 
Thirty thousand fans turned out in Grant Field, Atlanta, to witness the return of the Fighting Irish to Dixie. Three years had elapsed since the Irish had last played in the Sunny South. This time they were the underdogs. A Georgia Tech eleven that had conquered Navy was seeking revenge for last year's defeat. Most experts thought they would get it. 
But something happened! The Irish rose to the occa­sion, and when it was all over, they had won 21-0. Two bona fide Gaels did most of the offensive work. Little Jimmy Brennan kept up his twelve-point-a-game pace, and Bob Kelly looked as good as new in scoring the other touchdown. They had more than moral support from The Arm, Frank Dancewicz. 
Georgia Tech received but couldn't go anywhere, so they punted to Dancewdcz on his 39-yard line. "Boley" brought it back to the Tech 44-yard stripe. Then the march began, and it was not stopped until Jim Bren­nan took a lateral from Dancewicz and scooted around right end for eleven yards and a score. Steve Nemeth's talented toe made the score 7 to 0. 
The Blue and Gold threatened again in the second quarter, but found the Engineers' line too tough inside their ten-yard line. The drive started when George Sul­livan recovered Bowen's fumble on his own 43-yard stripe. With Kelly, Brennan, and Angsman doing the footwork, and Dancewicz the throwing, the Irish got to the four where they lost the ball on downs. The Tech drive got under way then, wdth Ritter doing most of the passing and running. On the seventeen, four passes failed due to the fine defensive efforts of Kelly, reliable Frank Szymanski, and newcomer Johnny Dee. The half ended soon after. 
Notre Dame -came back in the third quarter with the same dash that characterized its play at the opening of the game. Dancewicz returned Tech's kickoff to his 31. Kelly took a shovel pass from Dancewicz for a fifteen yard advance. Dancewicz connected to Skoglund for a first down on the Georgians' 40. Dancewicz' next shot was to Kelly, who caught the ball on the 35, shook off one tackier, and raced the rest of the distance to the goal. Steve Nemeth again split the uprights and the scoreboard read: Notre Dame—14, Georgia Tech—0. 
The Irish narrowly missed a touchdown early in the fourth period when Kelly fumbled on the one-yard line, the ball rolling into the end zone for a touchback. Bren­nan's fancy stepping and Dancewicz' superb marksman­ship featured the drive. 
Notre Dame did not waste the next chance, how­ever, for when Marty Wendell intercepted Ritter's pass, they went right down for another t.d. Wendell brought the ball back to the Tech 19. They scored in six plays, with Brennan ambling around left end from the one, while Georgia waited for Kelly at center. Nemeth ran his conversion string to six, with the point that con­cluded the day's scoring. 
The Tech-Notre Dame series now stands at thirteen won for the Gold and Blue, and only two for the Engi­neers.—Jack Miles 
Walter Kennedy, South Bend Tribune: "Eighty years ago General Sherman started on his way to fame, when he marched from Atlanta to the sea dur­ing the Civil war. This afternoon young Jim Brennan, Notre Dame's 155 pound halfback did a bit of marching himself in Atlanta, gi-abbed himself a bit of fame, and led an inspired underdog Irish eleven to a 21-0 victory over Geor­gia Tech. Thirty thousand fans, a sell­out, watched in amazement as Notre Dame completely dominated the game and won just about as they pleased." 
The aU-important place before game time is the locker room. The morale—building center. 
Sixteen 

Notre Dame 28; Great Lakes 7 
Chills couldn't beat off thrills last Saturday after­noon in Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish found revenge "oh so sweet" in their 28-7 drubbing of Great Lakes. It was the aerial accuracy of Dancewicz to Kelly and Skoglund combined with a galaxy of bewildering runs that brought the fitting close to Notre Dame's 56th foot­ball season. 
As Coach Ed McKeever had said the night before at the campus pep rally, "If they don't win tomorrow, I'll be the most surprised man in Notre Dame Stadium." And indeed surprised he was — not at the thought of defeat, but rather at the overwhelming margin that brought his young club their eighth and final triumph of a heavy ten-game billing. 
To the 38,000 spectators who braved the wilds of northern Indiana, garbed in its most distasteful gar­ment, snow, there was action right from the start, and the let-up terminated some 60 minutes later after the Blue and Gold, travelling incognito in Kelly green and gold, had accomplished some phenomenal feats of football in downing a rival that they had never yet beaten. 
Jim Mello, who sparked the Tars drive in the first half, looked as good against his old alma mater as he did against "the Lakes" last year while playing for the 1943 National Champions. His driving ability, which netted more than appreciable gains for his mates in the opening stanza, was the key to the Sailors first touch­down as Jim Youel, quarterback, went over from the one-foot-line on the opening play of the second quarter. 
Jim Costin, Sports Editor, South Bend Tribune: 
"It took a Notre Dame football team 26 years and four tries to do it, but when the Irish finally got around to licking the Great Lakes football team, they did a great job of it to close their 1944 season yesterday afternoon with a brilliant 28-7 victory over the previously once-beaten Sailors." 

With McKeever's boys having been pushed every­where but out of the Stadium in the first fifteen min­utes of play, with eight first downs for the Sailors as to their none, the Fighting Irish picked themselves up from the terra firma and began moving. An intercep­tion of a Great Lakes forward by Jim Dailer, substitute guard, put the ball on the Tars 48, first time that the Irish had been in the enemy's sector. The push was on and as four minutes and 45 seconds remained in the second quarter, the Irish were tying up the ball game with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Frank Dancewicz to Bob Kelly, a honey if there ever was one. 
At the start of the second half, brilliant line play by the Irish had put the Sailors against the wall, and Youel, on an attempted pass was hit hard by guard John Mastrangelo, the ball bouncing free in the end zone, and then Doug Waybright, end, pouncing on it for six points. In the final stanza, Kelly tore up the turf on three gains of 18, 9, and 9 to set up the third TD which came on a pair of passes from Dancewicz to Skoglimd, the scoring toss being unexpected by the defense who were all playing in close as they counted on a plunge from the three. 
To end, what had turned into a humiliating defeat for the heralded Great Lakes club, hitherto beaten only by Ohio State in eleven games, Kelly grabbed one of Youel's air-bound gains and stepped briskly within the confines of the field to set up what turned out to be Dancewicz's plunge for the fourth and final score. 
—Bill Waddington 
Jim Mello, so potent in the Irish-Michigan game last year, was the offensive mainstay of "the Lakes." 
Seventeen 

Pitt. Tulane Dart. Wis. 111. Navy Army North. Tech. Gt.La. Total 
Ats.Yd5. Ats.Yds. Ats-Yds. Ats.Yds. Ats.Yds. Ats-Yds. Ats.Yds. Ats-Yds. .•\ts-Yds. Ats.Yds. At3-Yds. 
Kellv 11-136 13-77 10-89 11-80 18-44 15-31 10-11 26-111 19-97 133-676 
Dancewicz C4-10 5-13 3-3 5-39 5-13 6-(-8) 12-29 6-64 8-28 15-39 69-230 Angsmaii 9-16 11-80 10-41 10-70 13-49 9-17 3-3 3-7 58-273 Brennan 3-16 15-120 16-93 4-(-8) 38-231 Mag-gioli 7-41 10-85 4-11 5-22 8-26 34-185 Marino 4-73 5-25 1-0 5-31 16-24 2-5 33-162 Wendell 9-36 13-22 9-24 31-82 Nenieth 13-47 5-35 4-71 4-15 • 2-(-4) 28-164 Terlep 6-15 3-9 8-75 3-7 3-(-4) 23-110 Gasnarella 3-2 1-21 1-1 15-71 21-97 Coi-bisiero 3-24 1-2 2-10 5-22 11-58 Fitzgerald 2-1.5 3-11 5-26 McGurk 3-15 3-15 Clasbv 2-10 2-10 Chandler 1-1 1-1 2-2 LeBrew 2-2 2-2 liuggerio 2-9 2-9 
Av. yd per try PASSING RECORD Kellv 133-676 5.1 Ats. I. Yds. Pet. 
c. 

Dancewicz 69-230 3.3 Dancewicz 153 72 10 999 .471 Angsman .58-273 4.7 Gasparella 28 13 5 240 .464 Brennan 38-231 6.1 Clasby 1 0 0 000 .000 Maggioli 34-185 5.4 Kelly 1 0 1 000 .000 Marino 33-162 4.9 Wendell 31-82 2.8 
OFFENSIVE RECORD Nemeth 28-164 5.9 
(Yards Rushing) Terlep 23-110 4.8 
Gasparella 21-97 4.6 Pit. Tul. Dar. Wis. 111. Navy Army NW GT Gt.L. Total 
Corbisiero 11-58 5.3 315 301 418 281 132 52 70 335 268 148 2321 
Fitzgerald 5-26 5.2 
(Yards Passing) McGurk 3-15 5.0 
184 237 114 90 102 170 100 47 123 72 1239 
Clasby 2-10 5.0 Chandler 2-2 1.0 
In 678 offensive plays—Total 3560 LeBrew 2-2 1.0 
Euggerio 2-9 4.5 Yards gained overall per play, 5.25 
POINTS SCORING 

r^t^ 
TD P.A.T PTS. 
Kelly 13 6 84 Brennan 4 0 84 Maggioli 4 1 25 Nemeth 2 12 24 Terlep 3 4 22 Angsman 3 0 18 Dancewicz 2 0 12 Gasparella 2 0 12 Clasby 1 1 7 Corbisiero 1 0 6 Limont 1 0 6 Marino 1 0 6 O'Connor 1 0 6

1k# 
Skoglund 1 0 6 Waybright 1 0 6 Wendell 1 0 6 Mergenthai (safety) 0 0 2 
41 24 272 
Looking Through the Pressbox Windows With the Sporiswriters of the Land. 

Eighteen 
Herbert E. Jones Business Manager of Athletics 
DR. JAMES E. McMEEL Team Physician University of Notre Dame 

ACTIVITY IN THE ATHLETIC OFFICE 

"k Behind the scenes of Notre Dame's success on 
the gridiron are two highly efficient, but seldom publicized departments, those of the business manager of athletics and the director of publicity. 
'k To the business oiiice falls the thankless task of assigning everyone to 50 yard line seats, os well as taking care of the thousand and one details attend­ant on the successful running oi a busy athletic 
association. 
•Ir The publicity office is charged with the responsibil­ity of keeping the press and radio of the nation fully 
informed of the daily activities of Irish teams. In addi­tion, the office acts as a clearinghouse for al questions pertaining to Notre Dame athletes and athletics. 
J. Walter Kennedy  
Director of Publicity  
EUGENE J.  
(Scrapiron)  
YOUNG  
Head Trainer  
University of  
Notre Dame  

Nineteen DANCEWICZ, FRANK JOSEPH (BOLEY). 

Polish junior, who was hailed as the greatest high school football player in New England in 1940 and 1941, received his high school instiiiction at Lynn Classi­cal high school in Lynn, Mass. Winning three letters in football, Frank was twice selected as all-city, twice all-state, and once all-New England. A monogram win-
FRANK I. DANCEWICZ 

ner on last year's National Championship squad, Frank found it hard to penetrate the lineup with such signal callers as An­gelo Bertelli and Johnny Lujack around, yet Frank did manage to see action in quite a few of the contests. A commerce student who hopes to make well as a coach or in the business line after finish­ing at Notre Dame. Frank is gifted with congeniality, being one of the outstanding politicians on the campus. Frank was a great field-general this season. 
EDWARD M. CLASBY 

CLASBY. EDWARD MICHAEL (MIKE). 
Irish-Polish freshman, was an all-stater deluxe while attending Natick high in Natick, Mass. As a hockey center, h"e won all-state recognition for two years; he was on the state's diamond nine in '43r as a shortstop and also on the grid squad as a quarterback. His nine letters gained in high school attest to his athletic prowess, three each in football, hockey, and base-
Twenty 
ball. In the Arts and Letters school at present, Ed hopes someday to be a doctor. After the Army game. Uncle Sam nabbed him. 
ELMER J. ANGSMAN. Jr. 
ANGSMAN, ELMER J., JR. (BUD). Ger­man-Irish sophomore fullback, received his high school tutoring from former Irish grid­der Wally Fromhart at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. Elmer won three letters in high school, two in football and one in baseball. An artist of some repute, he hopes to get into commercial advertising when his University days are complete. Philosophy and chicken are his particular favorites. A good ball-toter, Elmer had the starting job until hurt in practice before the wildcat game. 
ROBERT W. SKOGLUND 
SKOGLUND. ROBERT WALTER (STAN­ISLAUS), Swedish-Irish sophomore right end, who follows his brother, Len, in grid activities at the Blue and Gold campus, did his footballing at Loyola Academy in Chicago. At the Windy City North side prep school, he captained the grid team in his senior year while adding his name to the all-sectional team. Besides making three letters in football, lie grabbed off a pair in track and a single emblem in box­ing. An engineer in the Naval ROTC unit on the Notre Dame campus. When he was only 11 years old he sat on Notre Dame's bench and started his yearning to come to the Golden Dome University. Following in his Dad's profession. Bob hopes to be­come an engineer some day. 
• 

NEMETH. STEVE J.. Slavish-junior right half, attended Riley High School in South Bend. Discharged from the para-troopers in '43, Steve came to Notre Dame after winning four football letters and a similar number of monograms in baseball at Ri­ley. Despite all the interesting experiences 
STEVE J. NEMETH 

he has had on the gridiron, Steve believes his biggest thrill was being with the para­troopers for two years. When he receives his degree in physical education, he hopes to enter the coaching ranks or play pro football. Steve became an extra-point specialist late in the season. 
• •. 

STATUTO. ARTHUR JOHN (ART). Italian junior center, received three letters in foot­ball as a center and one in baseball as a catcher while attending Saugus high 
ARTHUR I. STATUTO 

school in his native city, Saugus, Mass A V-12 trainee on campus, he left at the end of October of this year. Art is a carry over from last season, where he was un­derstudy to Herb Coleman and Frank Szymanski. Art, who learned his football fundamentals from Hank Toczylowski, for­mer Boston College great, has adopted the grid game as his favorite and plans coach­ing as a career. 
KELLY, ROBERT JOSEPH (BOB). Irish sophomore right half, an alumnus of Leo High of Chicago, where he was a member of the 1942 city championship team. De­spite a semester of football ineligibility last season while half the schedule was being played. Bob plugged away until he had practically won the starting right half spot away from Jules Rykovich when the 10 game card was concluded. With a year of experience and a monogram under his belt, he was one of the greatest assets to this year's Fighting Irish combine. He has 
ROBERT I. KELLY 
shown the necessary qualifications that may put him among the all-time greats in Irish grid history. Next year. Bob may have put his ability against the Irish as a middle. 
O'CONNOR, WILLIAM F. (ZEKE), Irish left end, is a Navy V-12 student on the campus, after completing a successful prep career at Mt. St. Michael's high in New York City. Having recently moved to Fort Montgomery, New York, after residing 
WILLIAM F. O'CONNOR 

all his years in "the Met," Bill has six letters to his high school record, two in football, two in baseball, and a pair on the basketball squad. He was a member of the city football champions besides be­ing a cage captain. Having come to Notre Dame last year before the basketball sea­son was over, he made one trip with the 
Notre Dame squad. Idolizing Knute Rockne, it was only natural that he came to the Fighting Irish campus. 
JAMES H. DAILER 
DAILER, JAMES H. (DUBIE), German-Irish sophomore right guard spent his prep years at Central Catholic in Wheeling, 
W. Virginia. He held captaincies in both sports during his senior year while reap­ing All-State grid honors in '43 besides all-city for both '42 and '43. The rare occa­sions of a lineman making a touchdown, via fumbles or interceptions, have been his greatest athletic thrills to date. On the side, he ikes to puddle with photography. 
GEORGE R. TERLEP 
TERLEP. GEORGE RUDOLPH (DUKE), 
Slovene junior left half, is a resident of Elkhart, Indiana. A versatile athlete, the diminutive back, who is a mere 5' 8" tall, garnered three monograms in baseball and three in football while attending Elk­hart high. Starting off by learning the quarterbacking duties of last year's Na­tional Championship eleven, Duke was changed to a halfback spot this year so that his experience and speed could be used to advantage. As a member of the V-12, he said farewell after the Navy tilt. 
McGURK. JAMES STANLEY (MAC). Irish freshman in the V-5 program claims Mont­clair. New Jersey, as his residence where he copped a total of six letters, two as a fullback in football, an equal number as a first sacker on the diamond, and a pair on the hard court as a guard. Football 
captain in his senior year, 1943, Jim was placed on both the all-state baseball and football teams, as well as the aU-Metro­politan grid team in '43. For favorite ath­letes he names Sammy Baugh and Bill Dickey. 
JAMES S. McGURK 
• 
MARINO. NUNZIO ROBERT (NUNZ). Ital­ian sophomore right half, smallest man on the squad, comes well-recommended from Windber, Penn. He was co-captain for both the football and basketball teams in his senior year, as well as being named to all-city and all-state grid teams. Marino got his big thrill in participating in the spring game against such names as Mil­ler, Lujack and Coleman. A phy-ed major who hopes to be a physical instructor some day, Nunz too has developed a fond­ness for spaghetti. Boston can tell you all about this lad. 
NUNZIO R. MARINO 
BRENNAN. JAMES B.. Irish left halfback, made the fans stand up and take notice of his twin touchdown rendition in the Northwestern game and then furthered his prestige v/ith a pair against Georgia Tech. This diminutive back, a mere 5' 7". weigh­ing 155 pounds, hails from Milwaukee 
Twenty-one 

McKeever Praises Campus Spirit 
Says Combination of Spirit and Loyalty Brought Success to Team. 
As Coach Ed McKeever sat in his littls office in Breen-Phillips Hall, hehind a desk piled high with unopened mail, last Monday morning, his thoughts were on the scene at his elbow—boys rushing, singing, whistling, on their way to and from classes—boys who had been beaten down by Army, only to rise up with a splendid fighting spirit which enabled them to conquer Northwestern, and rugged opposition from Georgia Tech and Great Lakes in brilliant style. 
And as the young 34-year old coach looked out in retrospect over the season just closed, casting up the fortunes of his first year as acting head coach, he con­fessed gratefully to a SCHOL.-iSTic re­porter: 
'•The 1944 Notre Dame football team displayed the true spirit of 'Whether the 
odds be great or small....' when they kspt faith with their brothers of the 1943 squad in defeating a fine Great Lakes team. During the entire season the boys did the very be3t they knew how each and every Saturday, and I wish to thank them for their loyalty, their coopsration and their hard work. More importantly, I believe that their fellow-students feel that the boys representing them lived up to the expectations of all throughout the season. The student body displayed their own greatness by their support of the team—especially the fine sportsmanship after the loss to Army; this was indeed an incentive for the team's success in the last three games. The associate coaches, the team and I should like to thank the student body, the authorities of Notre Dame and the Naval Unit for their splendid cooperation and kindness." 

Sports World Looks To Notre Dame 
Nation's Leading Sports Authorities Analyze the Season's Success 
James Kearns, Chicago Sun: 
"The Irish are still what they ap­peared from the start to be: largely a kid team, bolstered in two or three spots 
—
 notably at Pat Filley's guard, John Adams' tackle and Bob Kelly's halfback 

—
 with what might in normal times be termed solid collegiate maturity and ex­perience. But it is becoming increasingly plain that on the standards applicable to kid teams, this is a helluva unit. It is tranendously spirited, and it is superb­ly coached, an attribute that is never out of sight when the young men start blocking- and tackling." 


Grantland Rice: 
"The Irish are never dull, even though beaten. You might ask just why this is so. The answer is simple enough. It began under the colorful leadership of Knute Rockne, plus the influence of Notre Dame's faculty. The crowd long ago began to sense the fact that Notre Dame teams not only played fine football, but gave the game spirit and sportsmanship. From the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules on to the Army game today. Notre Dame has given the crowd what it has wanted to see. In the last twenty years I've seen Notre Dame beaten sometimes, but I've never seen a dull Notre Dame team." 
Tv^-enty-t-wo 
Jack Conway, Boston Advertiser: 
"The kids of Notre Dame, their chins 
still up and their hearts filled with cour­
age, will invade the Yankee Stadium, 
New York, on Saturday to battle one of 
the most powerful Army teams in re­
cent years. A crowd of 80,000 will at-
ten the contest, and many of the specta­
tors will be hoping that the luck of the 
Irish will enable the youngsters from 
South Bend to stage a football miracle 
and win." 
—•— 

David Walsh, 
Chicago Herald-American 
"Notre Dame may have done every­thing possible with a football so far, ex­cept maybe take a seat with it on the 50­yard line and, in a very marked manner, bolt it down with mayonnaise and a rasher of Canadian bacon. Nonetheless, you can take the word of one who ought to know. Ed McKeever is not the new miracle man of college football and the '44 Notre Dame ensemble is quite defi­nitely not a miracle team. In fact, if you're able to find this at all feasible, you may go on from that point to accept the following diagnosis from the same authority: The team now plajnng out of South Bend is by no means the equal 

The Punch Bad 
of the '43 Notre Dame ensemble. By the 
way, the authority happens to be Mc-
Keevei". 

"Last year," he says, "we had older-
men, mostly from 19 to 23, who had ex­
perience, extreme talent and sav\-y in 
equal degrees. This year, the accent is 
OR youth. But it's youth with hustle and 
bustle, and an abiding faith in an or­
dained success. 

"There's been a lot said, and written, about the spirit of Notre Dame. They even made a movie by that name in Hol­Ij^vood. But here's a team that yields nothing to any predecessor, however famous, in that particular connection. For here's a team which, for the first time, in my humble judgment, carries deep down under its sweat shirt the very • soul of Notre Dame." 
_•:•_ 

Harry Grayson, NEA "Exploding in Notre Dame's face,:^ Na^^^ clearly demonstrated that even the Fighting Irish can't beat men with boys. Notre Dame stood up under a se­

Mof Notre Dame Football and the Fighting Irish at Notre Dame 
Tradition and Fighting Men Have Enriched the Ganne, and Made It the Favorite of the Cannpus 
vere pounding- in Baltimore, and it is-to the youngsters' credit that they did not fold up. They were doing' the best they knew how right up until the last shot was fired." 
—•:•— 

Dave Egan, Boston Record: 
"This Notre Dame eleven in all prob­ability is the greatest teenage team ever assembled. You will travel far and look long before you will find such brilliant prospects as Bill O'Connor and Tom Guthrie. One of them is 18, the other is 17, and both of them spent the afternoon making hoopla catches of forwards thrown by Frank Dancewicz. But de­fensively they were just children to be toyed with by Whitmire and Martin and Bramlett and the murderous Middies." 
- —•— 

Arthur Daley, New York Times: "As for Notre Dame, the kindest thing which can be said about it is that Ed McKeever has come a long way with (Continued on page 43) 
There is a particular way of life pe­culiar to each college campus that re­veals the character of the school. 
At Notre Dame, there is a rugged masculine tradition, built upon a solid spii'itual and intellectual purpose. Living the Notre Dame way of life makes Notre Dame live in her sons. The ine'v'itable result is a vital and binding loyalty that begets teamwork. This is especially true on the fields of friendly combat, the natural outlet for, and manifestation of school spirit. Clothe this spirit with the wholesome and healthy American youth on the campus of this particular univer­sity, and you have that elusive and price­less heritage, the Spirit of Notre Dame. And in no other instance is it better ex­emplified than in the gi-eat American game of football. 
There is something natural about sports at Notre Dame—as natural as are sports at West Point and at Annap­olis; they are a symbol and a measure of the physical excellence of youth. They typify the American way of life regard­ing physical development much better than would compulsory military train­ing, as IVIi*. Elmer Layden, Commissioner of Professional Football and former Notre Dame athlete, pointed out to the sports world only last week in his post­war plan for youth training. Further­more, there are no fraternities, no sor­orities, nor smug cliques which tend to destroy unity of interest, or erect social barriers on this campus. There is, rather, a common bond, born of family loyalty and inspiration—a household undivided. Indeed, it is part of the Notre Dame tradition that players sitting on the side­lines cheer loudest for their teammates in the fi"ay. It matters little what indi­vidual does the scoring; it is important only that Notre Dame triumph. 
And why is Notre Dame invariably successful? The answer is largely due to the definition of the word itself. For, at Notre Dame, success means to do one's best. It is a passion here to play hard—hai'der than the opposition—and to stop at nothing short of pei'fection. That is why Notre Dame and athletics have become synonymous in the sense that they spell success. And the praise heaped upon her by sports lovers throughout the world is a praise born of courage, tenacity, leadership, endui-­ance, and an inspiration that only the strong of heart possess. 
Nor is it bv any mere accident that 
we are called the Fighting Irish. True, in the beginning, it was a term of deri­sion, scornfully heaped upon us in a far-off day by those who, possibly, were less truly American than they cared to ad­mit. But we accepted the name as a challenge and, through the years, have carried it with such gi-ace that today it has become a badge of honor, a symbol of the finest qualities in competitive sport, regardless of the blood strains in the Notre Dame personnel from that day down to the present hour. Fortunately, by some strange fate, it has evolved into a shining example of the rich contribu­tion made to American life by all those whose roots were lodged in an alien soil in the long dim past. And, for this very reason, there is hardly another campus so deeply American as is the home of the Fighting Irish. Indeed, there is hard­ly a better example of this very truth than the Norse immigrant Knute Rockne, who gave so generously of his talents and himself to the American game of football. 
In this broad, inclusive, sense, the term Fighting Irish has become an ad­equate yardstick to measure the cour­ageous and indomitable spirit of all American boys who tread the storied paths of Notre Dame. It is an inspira­tion that deepns with time and glows brightest in the hour of conflict. 
[^iiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiii f^ 
Kelly of Notre Dame | 
i "There's a stir in the land of sports-| I men | 
I And the gridiron fans stand mute, | 
5 In their hearts there is trepidation | 
i And they're wishing for Leahy or 5 i Knute. i 
i For they think it is something out-i I landish i 
I And they wonder what's happened | I to fame | 
i When the star of the Fighting Irish | 
I Is Kelly of Notre Dame." i 
I (Henry Gillen of the I 
I Boston Post) I 
B' B 
T-wenty-thre© 
w^here he won a trio of letters in football while playing for Marquette high. Besides football, Jim won four monograms in track and three in hockey, holding captaincies in all sports while at Marquette high. A V-12 trainee, Jim considers as his biggest thrill, being on Notre Dame's 1944 foot­ball team. 
JAMES B. BRENNAN 

GUTHRIE, THOMAS FRANCIS, Jr. (TOM) 
—^Irish freshman left end, played football, basketball, and baseball at Seton Hall Prep in New Jersey. This Newark product garnered a total of 10 letters in prep school, three in football, four in basket­ball, and three on the diamond, having held captaincies on the grid squad and baseball nine. Coming to Notre Dame as a three-time all-stater, his last two years in football, once as a court artist, and as 
THOMAS F. GUTHRIE, Jr. 

a baseballer too, Tom added much to the '44 version of the Fighting Irish by way of height and poundage. Punting 88 yards in a prep game stands out as his greatest athletic thrill while crawling under a freight car when it started to move is the 
closest call he's ever had. 
BENIGNI. GEORGE HENRY. Italian-Pol­ish end, is a South Side Chicago product from. Mt. Carmel high school where he was tutored in the football trade by Wally Fromhart, former N. D. backfield great. Stretching 6' 2%" and carrying 190 pounds 
GEORGE H. BENIGNI 
on his frame, George is a Navy V-12 trainee. Having won three letters in foot­ball and four in basketball while at Mt. Carmel, George also held a football cap­taincy in his senior year, and also played on the 1943-44 city cage championship team. A good reserve end that saw regu­lar duty toward the end of the season, he was an asset to the team. He hopes some day to be a pilot. 
FRED J. ROVAI 
ROVAI, FRED JOSEPH, Italian sophomore right guard, is attending Notre Dame for a second time after receiving a medical dicharge from the Army. His prep years spent at Hammond High in Hammond, Indiana found him copping three letters in football as a fullback. He played with Hammond high's City Champions during the '39, '40, and '41 campaigns. When he first come to Notre Dame in '42 as a fresh­man, he was tagged for a fullback posi­tion and got his first big athletic thrill scoring against the varsity in that capa­city. At center, to begin with, he was shifted to regular right guard until hurt in the Army game. 
ENDRESS. FRANK THOMAS. German-Irish fullback, comes from the city of Evansville, Indiana. This six-footer who totes around 195 did his prepping at Reitz Memorial high and while there put in three good years on the gridiron, captain­ing the outfit in his senior year. Being a member of the all-city teams in '42 and '43, and an all-stater in '43, Frank showed his abilities here under the Golden Dome. Given an opportunity late in the season, he was defensively outstanding. A lover of football and Knute Rockne, Frank chose Notre Dame hoping some day to make his experience here get him a coaching job. 
FRANK T. ENDRESS 
WAYBRIGHT. DOUGLAS GILES (DOUG), 

Swedish-English sophomore end, who hails from Saugus, Mass., where he won an aggregate of six letters at Saugus high, two in each of three sports, football, track and basketball. This seventeen year old youth; fond of lobster and mathematics, finds his idol in Mike Holovak, erstwhile Boston College backfield ace. He once saved a friend from drowning and he may yet be called upon to save McKeever some day from a worse fate. He earned a starting spot late in the season. 
-^^ 
DOUGLAS G. WAYBRIGHT 

CHANDLER, WILLIAM GEORGE, Greek halfback, is a member of the V-12 program at Notre Dame. Having come from Chi­cago, with Amundsen high furnishing his football background. Bill hopes some day to be a coach. While at Amundsen, he gained his greatest experience playing against Lane in 1943, and also abetted his own cause in winning three football let­ters, one track monogram, and a pair in wrestling, having captained the grid 
Twenty-four squad in his senior year. With steak and Creighton Miller playing favorites with him in food and athletic hero. Bill got his biggest thrill playing for Notre Dame this past season. 
WILLIAM G. CHANDLER 

RAY, JOHN WILLIAM (SAM), freshman center, is a product of local origin where he staiTed in football, baseball, and bas­ketball at John Adams high in South Bend, captaining the grid squad in his senior year where he was named to the all-city and all-conference football teams, John hopes to follow in the steps of other foot­ball greats from his hometown like Pat Filley, George Murphy, and Dippy Evans. He earned a total of five letters in high 
JOHN W. RAY 

school, three in football, and one apiece in baseball and basketball. Nearly being hit by a train while in a car has been the narrowest escape of his life while steak is his favorite food. John left after the Army game for the service; before that time he was the starting center. 
BEREZNEY, PETER. JR. (PETE) Austrian right tackle, a native of Jersey City, New Jersey, where he played three years of varsity ball for Dickinson high school. Named to the all-city and all-state eleven in 1942. His goal in life is to be Attorney-General of the United States. The immor­tal George Gipp, Notre Dame's all-time-
PETER BEREZNEY, Jr. 
Ail-American, is his favorite athlete hero and Pete is a devoted Shakespeare stu­dent. Boating, reading and dancing come next to football. A big lad, Pete was on the squad last year and his familiarity with the "T" and other Notre Dame mech­anics of play have made him a valuable man on this year's squad. Law is his present course. 
JOSEPH R. GASPARELLA 
GASPARELLA, JOSEPH RICHARD (JOE), 
Italian freshman, is a 17 year old youth, scaling 6' 3" skyward and toting 218 pounds on his football frame comes from Vandergrift, Pennsylvania. There he played both football and basketball. He cap­tained the grid team in his senior year. Gasparella, v/ho possesses some of the qualities that made Bertelli the flinging sensation that he was, stretches a gcod way into the sky. He hopes some day to be a coach or a journalist. After being understudy to Dancewicz, Joe was shifted to fullback for added team strength. 
WESTENKIRCHNER, JOSEPH, German guard, got his first good opportunity at Illinois and produced from then on. A good man to pull out and lead the play, Joe put every bit of his 6 foot, 190 pound frame against the opposition. A product of Toledo and "Waite high school, Joe gar­nered four letters in football while playing at Waite. He also copped one in each of basketball, baseball and track. An all-state player in '43, Joe helped his own cause when he blocked a punt and re­covered it in the end zone for a touch­down, a gome which ended up 6-0. A V-12 trainee, he hopes some day to be a football coach. 
JOSEPH WESTENKIRCHNER 
FILLEY. PATRICK JOSEPH (PUNCHY), 

Irish senior left guard is the first captain to be re-elected in 25 years. In March, he went to Parris Island for further training but in the early spring he v/as given a medical discharge due to knee injuries. Since that time, he has had both knees operated on and is seemingly fit and ready for another grid season. A South Bend product from Central high school, Pat won a trio of letters in both football and wrest­ling. In the mat sport, he not only cap­tained the squad but also won conference titles in the 155 and 165 pound classes. Injured in the Army game, Pat was lost for the remainder of the season. 
PATRICK J. FILLEY 

SULLIVAN, GEORGE ALBERT. Irish sophomore left tackle, had the misfortune of having an All-American in front of him last year, Jim White. When given the op­portunity to substitute for Jim, he showed up well and won his monogram as a member of the '43 National Collegiate Champions. Being in the V-12 program on campus, George was one of the main-
Twenty-five stays of this year's Irish eleven. The prep­ping that he received at Walpole high school while residing in East Walpole, Mass., netted him 10 letters, three in foot­ball, tviro in basketball as a guard, three crs a weightman in track, and a pair as 

•an outfielder in the diamond sport. He -was captain of the football, basketball, cind track squads besides being the state shot-put champ in '42 and '43. Playing one of the prominent roles on Coach 
GEORGE A. SULLIVAN 

Handy's track team during the past sea­son in the "weight events, George "was able "to "win his second ND monogram as a ireshman, that being his greatest athletic ihrill. He hopes to be an optometrist. 
DAVLIN. MICHAEL FRANCIS (MKE). 

Irish freshman right end, "won t"wo mono­grams at Creighton Prep in Omaha "where he "was named all-City and all-State end as a 15 year old during the '43 season. He concentrates his activity on the grid 
MICHAEL F. DAVLIN 

sport. Being one of the youths on the squad, only 16, Mike finds his biggest thrill has been in coming to Notre Dame. Although once hit by an automobile, he didn't let that frighten him and has come right along to try to jar the opposition as much as the car jarred him. An injury in the Illinois game kept him out for the re­mainder of the season. 
T"wenty-six 
MARTIN P. WENDELL 
WENDELL, MARTIN PETER. German full­back, is another lad of Chicago origin. While at St. George high, Marty copped three monograms in football, captaining the team in his senior year, a team that "won all-city honors in defeating Phillips high and the heralded Buddy Young, no"w of Illinois fame. Named an all-stater in '43, Marty justified that honor "with the bang-up game he played in the Kelly Bo"wl for the city championship. His familiar "58" "was a great defensive strength this year, and as a backer-upper, he "was plenty good. Although little seen on offense, once given the ball, he plo"wed—but good. 
ACHILLE F. MAGGIOLI 
MAGGIOLL ACHILLE FRED (CHICK), 
Italian junior left halfback, from Misha­"waka, Ind., "where he collected six letters, three in football, a pair in track, and a loner in basketball. It "was "while at Mishr crwaka that he first gained recognition 
•when he "was selected on the '38 and '39 all-city squad and on the '38 all-confer­ence eleven. Once in a high school game, he gained 200 yards. Maggioli signifies a love of spaghetti. Chick "was a member of the Marine V-12 program on- campus and departed at the end of October "when the Marine program abandoned its Notre Dame abode. Chick's "winning touchdo"wn against Illinois "was an unforgettable. 
MARTZ, GEORGE AMES. German—Eng­lish freshman left guard, is from East St. Louis, 111. He comes to Notre Dame foot­ball as a fullback letter "winner, t"wo more as a receiver in baseball, and a loner as a guard on the hardcourt. George also "was honored by being placed on the all-state baseball team in '44. He "was a cat­cher for Jake Kline's summery baseball team but as no monograms "were a"warded 
GEORGE A. MARTZ 
for the informal session, he "will have to "wait until the regular program next spring. He filled in for Pat Filley "when the latter "was incapacitated. 

GLAAB, JOHN P. (FLOWER), German-French sophomore right tackle, fulfilled his prep career at Woodro"w Wilson high school in Long Beach, California. While "Winning three letters in the grid sport, he also "was a member of the City Champs, Foothill Champs, and the Long Beach-Compton League Champs. He "was hon­ored by being named to both the all-city and all-league teams in '43. Besides liking history and steak, he "would like to gain 
JOHN P. GLAAB 

some of the grid qualities possessed by George Sullivan, one of his teammates this year. One of the close calls in his life came as he "was shocked "with 440 volts of electricity. 
SZYMANSKI, FRANCIS STANLEY (FRANK), Polish junior center, won all-city and all-state honors in 1940 as captain of Northeastern high school of Detroit, Mich­igan. Although he won his freshman num­erals at center, Frank v/as shifted to the tackle spot as a reserve during 1942 and 
FRANCIS S. SZYMANSKI 

saw little action. He developed into a fine pivot prospect and shared the spot with Herb Coleman on last year's National Champions. Working for • a doctorate in Mathematics, Frank has the reputation of being one of the outstanding student mathematicians on the campus. His favor­ite pastime is technically explaining theo­retical physics to bewildered teammates. It was on the advice of Alex Wojciehowicz, his favorite athletic hero, that Frank ma­triculated at Notre Dame. An honor stu­dent, debating is his favorite avocation. Frank recently received a medical dis­charge from the Navy Air Corps and promptly took over the pivot duties from the Army tussle on—and what a man! 
JOHN I. FALLON 
FALLON. JOHN JAMES (JACKY SUGAR). 

Irish freshman guard, earning three letters in football at Marquette high school in Alton, Illinois, is another of the youngsters on this year's grid squad. Captaining the Marquette eleven in '43 (who were the Catholic League Champs in both '41 and '43), he had the opportunity of playing on an undefeated, untied team last fall. He was also named to the Catholic League All-Stars in '41 and '43. On the side, John does some wrestling and competed in the 
A.A.U. meet which was also his biggest thrill. Weight-lifting is one of his favorite hobbies. He worked his way through Mex­ico last summer while travelling through the Republic to the south. He was induced to come to Notre Dame because the spirit of the student body had such national fame. 
KELLY. JOSEPH A. (JOE). Irish-German junior left tackle, has made his debut on the gridiron after successfully becoming 
JOSEPH A. KELLY 
an accomplished shot-putter and discus thrower for Coach Doc Handy's trackmen during the past season. His 6 foot, 7 inch frame which totes around 225 pounds, hails from Akron North High where he copped a half dozen letters,, two in foot­ball, two in basketball, and two in track. In '42 he was named to Ohio's all-state cage quintet as a center and also was on the all-city track championship squad. Joe, an aeronautical engineer, has a liking for milk and his athletic prowess shows that he certainly has gained a lot of calcium from it. 
KENNETH R. SCHUSTER 
SCHUSTER. KENNETH, ROBERT (SHOES). Polish-Lithuanian freshman left tackle, won two letters in football at St. 
Rita high school in Chicago. While attend­ing the South side school, he was named to the all-city team for two years and to Illinois' all-state eleven during his senior year in '43. Although fond of roast beef and sweet potatoes, he gets an intellectual enjoyment out of studies in science. He got his biggest sports thrill out of beating St. Leo in the Sisters of Mercy Charity game and further showed his stamina by playing all but four minutes of Rita's eight gome schedule last season. Last summer he had his toe smashed while working in a freight elevator. Kenny, too, fulfills a life ambition in coming to Notre Dame 
where he could don the colors of the Fighting Irish. 
MERGENTHAL, ARTHUR LOUIS, a lot of man to have to tackle, comes from the banks of the Ohio, calling Bellevue, Ken-
ARTHUR L. MERGENTHAL 

tucky his home. Art did one year at Xavier University in Cincinnati before joining the Marine Corps. It was during this year that he received a medical discharge from the service and came to Notre Dame. At Xavier high. Art garnered a total of six letters, four in football and two in track, holding captaincies in both sports. A 
JOHN B. MASTRANGELO 
(Continued on page 34) Twenty-seven 

(_!_  f^L'l l  I  B_  When they come any better we'd like to  
I n A S|)|||^|3Shll  • • •  ^^^ ^^^^"^-^^^^ °^ ^° ^^^ ^^^ ^^ 
* ^  We're all proud of him.  
How about  a word for the '°™^  forgotten  
That's the 1944 season, folks!  good enough for my club.  "^en  — the  subs  who  weie  out there  
every day except Saturday!  We  saw a  
Ed  McKeever  and his staff  started  Mastrangelo  got better  every  game.  lot of boys working their heads off with­ 
prettj'  much  from  scratch.  No college  ^ice going Saturday, Johnny!  out expecting any clippings in the Sun- 
team'they met, beat or tied them. That's  Waybright  got  himself  to touchdown  ^^^ editions.  They're  a  really  impor­ 
good enough for  me.  by playing heads up  When  a boy plays  *^"* 1'''^^*^ °^ * e  team, and I don't mean  
A A >,  -A.. +1. T,.,r= ,,i=,vP^ thpiv bP.t  like Doug, he's bound to get  some good  Perhaps. I mean they are. It may be ti-ue  
And besides, the boys played then Desto + j„ «•„;„-+ r,-oof TnV^cgame, Saturday, agamst Gieat Lakesand did what no other Notre Dame team  , , ,? ^ , ^ ^ i breaks. Doug was smart enough to take ,^^.^^.^ „° ..^^ ^ aa^antage tJiem.  that there's nothine- that qiicceeds like  '-"'^'' ^"«^res notnmg tnax succeeas iiKe  success, but for my money a kid who  ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^_^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^  
had  ever  done  — beat  Great  Lakes  m  goigy  Danciewicz. AVell, just  look  at  rain  or shine, and still conies up  a little  
football.  the  record.  He was  in there  pitching,  short is a real boy, and  a real sport. A  
Eight and two is a verv  good  season.  ^'^^ punting, and running, and tackling,  boy who gives all he's got is a hundred  
The boys played all the w^y to win them  ^^^  blocking, and  thinking,  all season.  per  cent  guy. He'll succeed  some  other  
them all.  .  ^^'^y- 
Frank SzymansM is an All-Americmi,  m>  7^\  }]  ^^^  *^ "  *'^^^^ ^^'^ *^^^ managers and  
if I ever  saw  ojie. If he had played all  / ^  O /  / /  *^'^ ''^"'^'  ^"^ *^'^ cheering  section  
the  games,  he could  not have  missed.  ^  ^  -V  ''  ^^core: Civilians and V-12, one —  Mid- 
Hope to see him around for another sea­ /^  ^  ^  ^  *, i  shipmen, nothing, in a fairly  close  con­ 
gQj^  /^  \,^^^Jf^\  /'^fl  ^est in the Snow LeagTie), and the pep  
I  -^^  1-1/  /  rallies. Good stuff. That's Notre Dame.  
Jim  Brennan helped the  cause  in the  .1 " ^  plisA  ^ . .  
three last games. He knows how to run  Z'l  L  M-^^1  
and he thinks when he's running. Good  /^ \  '^""'^^^^^^m'  i  AUmCathali^  T^am  
boy. Good halfback.  /^^yV^^g^^ ^  ^  if  
„  ,  ^  ^C'^^^^^S-  "'^^i^^-''N  End  Thomas Smith, Holy Cross  
Twelve for fourteen for Steve Nemeth  W^^hy. ^^^  ^  A  Tackle  Donald Carter, St. Marys, Cal.  
must  be some  kind  of a  percentage  W^} P^W/  F  ~  Guard  Patrick FiUey, Notre Dame  
^•^*=°^'^­ ^^^  /  WW/ I  Center  ..Martin  Silovich, Marquette  
Art  Mergenthal  certainly  put on a  i^^ l  ^  ^  I  (^^oxA  lames Reilly, Holy Cross  
game against  Great Lakes. Nica going,  i^  ^  I  VW'  I  ^"''^'^  George Sullivan, Notre Dame  
Art! The boy from XentuckT is a very  1^,  ^  WMl  I  ^'^^  William  Kuzmon,  Villanova  
good tackle.  '^y-^  \  tr-^/7-^  /  Q.Back  Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame  
H.Back  Ray Sullivan, Holy Cross  
Sully  was  smacking them all "season.  Don't think I'm not a severe  H.Back  Robert Kelly, Notre Dame  
From Tulane to Great Lakes he looked  critic because I am!  F.Back  Robert David,  Villanova  

[•Jlllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllll,,!,,!,,!,,,,,(„,„„„„,„„,,,,,„,,,,,,,,,,,,I,,,,,,,, llllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllJIIIIIIIIIIKIIIIIIlIt lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliPj 


Highlighfs of fhe All-Time Record 
I * In 56 seasons of football since 1887, Notre Dame Biggest scores under Anderson: 1932—^Notre Dame, 73; | I teams have w-on 345 games, lost 75, and tied 27. Haskell, 0; 1931—Notre Dame, 63; Drake, 0. | 
I Under the late Knute Eockne (1918-30) Notre Dame Biggest scores under Layden: 1940—Notre Dame, 61; | I won 105, lost 12, tied 5. Carnegie Tech, 0; 1988—Notre Dame, 52, Kansas, 0. | 
I Under Heartly (Hunk) Anderson (1931-33) Notre Biggest scores under Leahy: 1943—Notre Dame, 55; | I Dame won 16, lost 9, tied 2. Georgia Tech, 13; 1943—Notre Dame, 50; Wis-I 
i Under Elmer F. Laydsn (1934-40) Notre Dame won 47, consm, 0. | I lost 13, tied 3. Biggest scores under McKeever: 1944—^Notre Dame, i I TT J T:' 1 W T , /-.n^i ^o^ TVT .- r, OA ^4; Dartmouth, 0; 1944—Notre Dame, 58; Pitts-| 
i Under Frank W. Leahy (1941-43) Notre Dame won 24, h h Ct ^ I lost 3, tied 3. ^^^ ' I I Under Edward C. McKeever (1944) Notre Dame won ^^'«^st defeat, all-time: 1944—Army, 59; N. D., 0. | I 8, lost 2. Worst defeat under Rockne: 1925—Army, 27; N. D., 0. I I Biggest score for Notre Dame: 1905—Notre Dame, 142; Worst defeats under Anderson: 1933—Purdue, 19; | I American Medical, 0. Notre Dame, 0; Southern Calif., 19; Notre Dame, 0. | I Biggest score under Eockne: 1926—^Notre Dame, 77; Worst defeat under Layden: 1936—Pittsburgh, 26; N. | I Beloit, 0. D., 0. | 
{•Jriiiiiii'iiiiiitfiiitiiitiiiitiiiiiitiiiitfiiiiiiiiiittiiitiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiitiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiii 
Twenty-eight 
TWO IN THE CEUAR 
SONNY: "Mother, Poppo wouldn't 





The Green Banner 
murder anybody, would he?" 

TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT 
We have had a lot of arguments, and few admissions of defeat, in our day. But things are getting perilously differ­ent now. And it is doubtful if we shall continue long in our procedure of telling-big lies in the loudest voice, thereby winning the day. Anyway, it is rumored that McAllister is about to install a reference library in his equipment room. Thus, the last outpost of original think­ing is getting to the point where we shall have little elbow room (in an intel­lectual way), on the local scene. From now on, there will be more good stories spoiled than you can shake a stick at— all because the facts will be there. 
CHANGE OF PACE 
Now that Bill the Barber (storied proprietor of the local Clip Joint) has put Roosevelt securely in the White House (a very easy assignment, he as­sured us), for four more years, we have the darndest time drubbing up conver­sation that has any noticeable punch in it. What's even worse, the old warrior Bill is getting so genial and so mellow that, more than likely, he will agree with us even when we least expect him to do so. Disgusting, isn't it! 
A PSALM OF LIFE 
There once was a watchman named Doran Who nodded while guarding old Sorin, , So that men coming late, Had, quite often, to wait While Doran was snorin' in Sorin. 
—•— SURPRISE!! 
OLD PROFESSOR: "I can't believe it— Notre Dame being thumped by both Army and Navy in one year!" 
FRESHMAN: "Don't you know there's 
?" 

a war on 
THE BOUNDING MAIN The EOTC Unit is running into diifi­culty, now that winter is creeping up in its quiet, white way. For with the lake taking on a thick coat of ice, what's Chief Muson going to do about boat drills? But then, he'll think of some­thing; he always does. Othen\'ise, the cruise will degenerate into a fishing 
By John Power 
sailors will try to find a new way to St. Mary's via water. How silly! And sup­pose they do—^liow disappointing! 
"Hi, folks! No special reason for my being here other than the fact that this is December 8, 1944, and the editors thought this would be the last chance to use my picture. I'm one of the unsung student managers. Cheerio!" 
MOTHER: "Why certainly not, child. What makes you ask that?" 
SONNY: "Well, I just heard him down in the cellar sajring, 'Let's kill the other two, George'." 
—•— 

FAMOUS LAST WORDS 
FRESHMAN: "I don't care what you Seniors say. I'm going to eat one of those mystery balls." 

INDIANA WINTER 
New Yorkers and Californians are said to be the most self-satisfied classes of Americans. They should be — they can't get any farther away from Indi­ana and still stay in the country. 
SUMMER SQUASH 
"How did you puncture that tire?" "I ran over a milk bottle." "What's the matter, didn't you see 
it?" "No, the kid had it under his coat." —•— ADDLED ANNA 
And then there was the secretary who didn't mail the circular letter because she couldn't find any round envelopes. 
—•— COLD LOGIC 
FIRST DODO: "We must be coming into a town." SECOND DITTO: "What makes you think 
•?"
so 
FIRST DODO: "We're hitting more people." 

party. Or, what's worse, the Walsh Hall "Oh heavens, Mercer, you take it. There's a run in my stocking!" T"wenty-nine 


MEET THE MEN BEHIND THE LINE 
BY AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief, the "Scholastic" 
There is no questioning of tlie efficient machine Notre Dame fielded this season, but it is seldom that the supply lines, the planners, the workers behind the team ever get recognition. Theirs is the oil that makes the machine work. The success of this team means that there were planners carrying out details, and running the show. 
Beginning with Mr. Herb Jones and his business department, through Walter Kennedy's publicity department, all the way down to the iirogram salesmen, all had their particular job to fulfill, and each did as well in his capacity as the team out on the field. 
A football machine is a giant enter­prise, needing radio technicians, an­nouncers, teletj^je expeits, photograph­ers, newsreel men, scouts, student man­agers, coaches, ushers, "poi) and dogs" salesmen, progi-am sellers, and field care­takers; this machine needs stenograph­ers, secretaries, publicity men. And too, it needs players. But that's another story. 
Mike Moore is an old Notre Dame standby at the time clock. He has beer, with the team many seasons, and no "Michigan incident" has occurred with him around. He deserves a lot of the credit for alwaj^s keeping the thousands of spectators informed correctly of just how much time is left. 
The student managers with their traveling field phones and their accurate l^lay by play gains and losses on the in 1930, there arose a need for a body of score board deserve a round of applause. These student managers perform all sorts of duties which crop up in the excitement of the game. Many times they are the team's right hand men. 

To demonstrate how unique the vari­ous departments and organizations which play their part before, during and after each game, the SCHOLASTIC tracked down Mr. W. H. Duley, major of the Usher Squad, and asked him for the military "dope" on his organization. 
With the building of the stadium back men to handle the terrific crowds who came in search of the SO-yard line. The human traffic problem became so acute that the present corps of^ ushers was formed. It resembled in many ways the military order of the army. To this day, the titles of officers are used, from major all the way down to the lowly private. 
As was mentioned before, Mr. W. H. Duley is the major, followed by the cap­tain-adjutant Mr. M. P. (Mike) Brady. The corps is supervised by. eight captains, staffed by fii-st lieutenants, second lieu­tenants, staff sergeants, etc. The "army" consists of 775 men, spread strategically over 17 gates, 36 ramps, the box sections, and some 20 men patrolling the grounds immediately outside the stadium, seeing that all is well, guarding the team doors, 
and helping out with the radio equip­
ment that has to be moved from trucks 
to the roof of the press-box. 
Contrary to popular opinion, these men are all citizens of South Bend, and not members of the University. Anyone li\ing in South Bend is eligible to join the staff, providing that there is a va­cancy, and also that he has good charac­ter references. 

Files are set up sometime in July with the ijrospective members' names. About three weeks before the beginning of the season, an organization meeting is called wherein all rules are discussed carefully. New men get a chance to acquaint them­selves thoroughly with their fellow work­ers, and also M'ith the rules. Most strin­gent of these is that no man may drink while on duty at the stadium, and fur­ther, that even a slight trace of liquor on the breath will be sufficient cause for immediate dismissal from the corps. A regulation that is rather interesting to note is the fact that no women are allowed either on the field, nor in the press-box. 
After this meeting the men are ready to take their first real step toward being-true ushers. They give a dollar deposit and receive their caps. These are return­able during the last game of the season, with the deposit going back to the men. 
If a man is to be absent or late for 
(Continued on page 42) 

FIRST ROW (Kneeling)—^Left to Right: J. R. Dillon, Clarence Gran, Paul Hertel. Herbert Brown, Leonard Claudon, fjerry Megan, Edward Beiser and J. W. (BiU) Conboy. SECOND ROW (Standing)—Left to Right: W. H. (BiU) Duley, Manager of Stadium Personnel, M. P. (Mike) Brady, Assistant Manager, Harley Wiseman, Paul Bill, John MacIdn,^ Earl Raabe, Urbon &oger and Ted Doutel. 
Thirty 


Excerpts from the Experts. 
"The MEN'S Corner" 

^ Home of Nafionally Accepted Merchandise] 
^ * 
KUPPENHEIMER 
SUITS - COATS 
BOTANY "500" SUITS 
STETSON HATS 
LEE HATS 
FLORSHEIM SHOES 
FREEMAN SHOES 
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES 
BOTANY TIES 
INTERWOVEN HOSE 
HICKOK BELTS and SUSPENDERS 



K7o«5K rOUMC 
MAIN AT COLPAX 

Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun: 
"Everybody here saw Kelly today as Noti-e Dame's newest football team ut­terly crushed the University of Pitts­burgh Panthers by a score of 58-0 in the opening game of the Fighting Irish season. Kelly is apple-cheeked Robert Joseph Kelly, 19-year-old Irish sopho­more right halfback from Chicago. The "everybody" who saw him included 55,C00 customers in the stands and a squad of Pitt footballers whose collapse was started and speeded and all but sealed by Eobert himself as he scored Notre Dame's first 26 points in less than 32 minutes of action." 
United Press: "Notre Dame opened its drive for a second consecutive national football championship today by crushing an in­ept Pittsburgh Panther team, 58-0, be­fore 50,000 disappointed fans at Pitt Stadium. The Irish could do no wrong as they scored through the air and along 
the ground with equal ease, turning vir­tually every Panther mistake into a touchdown." 
.•­


Associated Press: 
"Notre Dame's Irish, striking with unexpected speed and power, tcday served notice they'll again be very much in the running for the mythical national collegiate title they won last year as they smothered the University of Pitts­burgh's Panthers under a barrage of aerials and a varied running attack, 58-0." 

Dan Desmond, 
Chicago Herald-American: 
"Notre Dame sti-uck straight and mercilessly today at Pittsburgh's most embarrassing weakness, protectio n against passes, and pulled out with a 58 to 0 victory that startled the 50,000 spectators. The Irish attack, once it got into motion, was devastating and versa­tile. On the gTound and in the aii-, they piled up the amazing total of 622 net yards gained." 
—•— 


Chester Smith, Sports Editor, 
Pittsburgh Press: 

"Robert Joseph Kelly, pink-cheeked, piano-legged sophomore from Flossmoor, 111., whose cherubic smile belies the blitz he packs in his feet, turned up with Notre Dame's football team at the Sta­dium yesterday and put on as eye-filling a one-man show as Pittsburgh has ever seen. It wasn't so much that Kelly was the indispensable man, for the young and hungry eleven that is carrying on in the place of the 1943 collegiate cham­pions scored 32 points without him — but the fact remains that 'Bobbing Bob' accounted for the first 26 in the 58-0 thrashing that was dealt out to Pitt be­fore an awed crowd of 50,000 fans." 
—•••— 
Charles Bartlett, Chicago Tribune: 
"Notre Dame's Fighting Irish, about whose youthful talents their friends have been curious, today passed another test in their 1944 examination to prove they are worthy successors to the.na­tional championship eleven of last sea­son. And they passed it with flying colors, as may be attested by the jury of 45,000 who watched them trounce a more seasoned Tulane team, 26 to 0." 
—•— Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun: 
"Notre Dame, knifing passes and pow­er in the proper proportions, rolled back Tulane's Green Wave as expected here today, 26 to 0. The Irish, v\ith a sureness born of tradition, generated their head of football steam slowly and then opened the throttle wide on four occasions to find the route to the goal line as 45,000 looked on in the first intersectional game ever played between teams of the two schools." 
—•— Leo Fischer, 
Chicago Herald-American: 
"Notre Dame's 1944 horns football de­but today was a complete success before some 45,000 satisfied customers. The Irish put on a spectacuar show as they passed and ran a sci-appy Tulane aggre­gation into submission, 26 to 0, for their second impressive win of the current campaign." 
—•— 


Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune: 
"That Bobby Sox brigade which pats on Notre Dame football uniforms each Saturday afternoon and pretends to be grown up men, threw practically every­thing in its first reader as a strong Tu­lane university eleven yesterday after­noon and trounced the New Orleans out­fit, 26-0, to the great delight of a crowd of 45,000 in the opening game of the home season on the stadium turf." 
—•— Associated Press: 
"Jim Brennan, 155 pounds of backfield djmamite, gave 48,000 fans cause to fox-­get the loss of Bob Kelly, Notre Dame's ace halfback, as he exploded tvvice in the first seven minutes of play to lead the Ramblers to a 21-0 victoi-y over Northwestern today." 
(Continued on page 34) 
Thirty-one 


HOW THEY STAND 


Sf// S^ern All-Americans 
PITTSBURGH 1919—N.D., 12; Army, 91909—N.D., 6; Pitt, 0 

1920—N.D., 27; Army, 17 FIHST TEAM SECOND TEAM 1911—N.D., 0; Pitt, 0 1921—N.D., 28; Army, 0
1912—N.D., 3; Pitt, 0 End Paul Walker. Yale Jlenry Walker. Virginia 
1922—N.D., 0;Armv, 0 
1930—N.D., 35; Pitt, 19 1923—N.D., 13; Arm'v, 0 Tackle._ .William Willis. Ohio State Walter Stickel. Pennsylvania 1931—N.D., 25; Pitt, 12 
1924—N.D., 13; Army, 7 Guard .Wm. Hachton, California James McCurdy. Washington 1932—N.D., 0; Pitt, 12 1925—N.D., 0; Armv, 27 Suard John Tavener, Indiana Roger Harding, California 1933—N.D., 0; Pitt, 14 1926—N.D., 7; Armv, 0 Tackle £llis Jones. Tulsa John Fathauer, Iowa State 
1934—N.D., 0; Pitt, 19 1927—N.D., 0; Arm'y, 18 1935—N.D., 9; Pitt, 6 1928—N.D., 12; Army. 6 Center... Don Whitmire, Navy Thomas Kane, Tulane 
1936—N.D., 0; Pitt, 26 1929—N.D., 7; Army, 0 End Philip Tinsley. Ga. Tech.._ Hubert Brectol. Texas 
1937—N.D., 6; Pitt, 21 1930—N.D., 7; Army, 6 Back Claude Young. Illinois R. Hoernschmeyer, Indiana 1943—N.D., 41; Pitt. 0 1931—N.D., 0; Army, 12 Back._ Earl Girard. Wisconsin ROBERT KELLY. Notre Dame 
1944—N.D. 58; Pitt. 0 1932—N.D., 21; Army, 0 1933—N.D., 13; Army, 12 Back L. Horvath. Ohio State Harold Hamberg. Navy 
Totals—183 129 

N.D. Won 7, Lost 5, Tied I 1934—N.D., 12; Army, 6 Back.. F. Blanchard, Army _ Jrank Broyles, Georgia Tech 
1935—N.D., 6; Armv, 6 1936—N.D., 20; ArmV, 6
TULANE 1937—N.D., 7: Armv, 0 

1944_N.D., 26; Tul., 0 1938—N.D., 19; Army, United Press Honor Teams 
7 Totals— 2S 0 1939—N.D., 14; Army, 0 
N.D. Won I 1940—N.D., 7; Army, 0 HRST TEAM SECOND TEAM 1941—N.D., 0;Army, 0 End .George Poole. Army. JPhillip Tinsley. Georgia Tech. 
DARTMOUTH 1942—N.D., 13; Army, 0 
1944—N.D., 64; Dart.. 0 1943—N.D., 26: Army, 0 Tackle .William Willis, Ohio State._...Coulter, Army Totals— 64 0 1944—N.D., 0; Army. 59 Guard Jenjamin Chase, Navy PAT FILLEY, Notre Dame N.D. Won I Totals—350 263 
Center. John Tavener, Indiana .....J. Martin, Navy 
N.D. Won 22, Lost 6. Tied 3 Guard _ Joseph Stanowicz, Army.. Bill flackett, Ohio State 
WISCONSIN 1900—N.D., 0; Wis., 54 Tackle Donald Whitmire, Navy John Ferraro. South. Calif. 
1904—N.D., 0; Wis., 58 NORTHWESTERN End Jack Dugger. Ohio State_„ Paul Walker. Yale 1905—N.D., 0; Wis., 21 
1889—N.D., 9; Northw., 0 Back Leslie Horvath. Ohio State Claude Young, Illinois 1917—N.D., 0; Wis., 0 1898—N.D., 12; Northw., 0 Back ilobert Jenkins, Navy.. _BOB KELLY, Notre Dame 1924—N.D., 38; Wis., 3 1901—N.D., 0; Northw., 2
1928—N.D., 6; Wis., 22 Back _ Glenn Davis, Army. McWilliams, Mississippi Stale 
1903—N.D., 0; Northw., 0
1929—N.D., 19; Wis., 0 Back _ Felix Blanchard, Army Boris Dimancheff, Purdue 
1920—N.D., 33; Northw., 71934—N.D., 19; Wis., 0 1924—N.D., 13; Northw., 61935—N.D., 28; Wis., 0 1925—N.D., 13; Northw., 10 1936—N.D., 27; Wis., 0 
1942—N.D., 7; Wis., 7 1926—N.D., 6; Northw., 0 f.Af.S. Ail-American Selections 
1929—N.D., 26; Northw., 61943—N.D.. 50; Wis., 0 1930—N.D., 14; Northw., 0
1944—N-D., 28; Wis., 13 FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM 
1931—N.D., 0; Northw., 0Tota's—220 178 
1932—N.D.,21; Northw., 0 End.._ Jack Dugger, Ohio State Paul Walker, Yale N.D. Won 1. Lost 4, Tied 2 1933—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 Tackle Don Whitmire. Navy George Poole. Army 1934—N.D., 20; Northw., 7 
Guard. Joe Stanowicz. Army._ Milan Lazetich, Michagan 1935—N.D., 7; Northw., l4 ILLESrOIS Center.. _ John Tavener, Indiana Bill Willis, Ohio State 1936—N.D., 26; Northw., 61898—N.D., 5; Illinois, 0 
1937—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 Guard__ Ben Chase, Navy. Jill Hackeft, Ohio State 
1937—N.D., Q;mvao\s, 0 1938—N.D., 14; Illinois, 6 1938—N.D., 9; Northw., 7 Tackle John Ferraro, U. S. C John Green. Army 
1940—N.D., 26; Illinois, 0 1939—N.D., 7; Northw., 0 End Phil Tinsley. Georgia Tech Tex Warrington, Auburn 
1941—N.D., A9; Illinois, 14 1940—N.D., 0; Northw., 20 Back., 
._ Les Horvath, Ohio Stats.. .Claude Young, Illinois 
1942—N.D., 21; Illinois, 14 1941—N.D., 7; Northw., 6 Back.. 
.Glen Davis. Army Bob Jenkins. Navy 
1043—N.D., 47; Illinois, 0 1942—N.D., 27; Northw., 20 Back.. 
1944—N.D., 13; IlUnois. 7 1943—N.D.. 25; Northw., 6 .Boris Dimancheff. Purdue. Bob Fennimore. Okla. A.&M. 1944—N.D.. 21; Northw., 0 Back.. 
Totals—175 41 Fe!ix Blanchard, Army. BOB KELLY, Notre Dame N.D. Won 7. Tied 1 Totals—310 117 N.D. Won 19, Lost 3, Tied 2 
U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY 
Notre Dame All-Time Football Record 
1927—N.D., 19; Naw, 6 GEORGIA TECH 
1928-N.D., 7;NavS-0 Year Won Lost
1929—N.D., 14; Na w 1922—N.D., 13; G. Tech, 3 Tiea' Year Won Lost Tied Year Wo7i Lost Tied 1930—N.D., 26; Navy, 2 7 1923—N.D., 25; G. Tech, 7 1887 0 1 0 1909 7 0 1 1929* 9 0 01924—N.D., 34; G. Tech, 3 1888 1 2
1931—N.D., 20; Na w 0 1910 4 1
0 
1 1930* 10 0 0

1925—N.D., 13; G. Tech, 0
1932-N.D., 12; Naw 1889 0
0 1 0 1911 6 0
1933-N.D., OjNav^ , 1926—N.D., 12; G. Tech, 0 2 1931 6 2 1
7

1934-N.D., 6;Navj- 10 1927—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 7 1892 1 0 1 1912 7 0 0 1932 7 2 01928—N.D., 0; G. Tech, 13 1893 4
1935-N.D., 14; Nav^. 0 0 0 1913 7 0 
0 1933 3 5 1

1929—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 6
193<^N.D., 0;Naw 1894 3 2 1 
1914 

3 5 2
1938—N.D., 14; G. Tech, 6 0 1934 6 3 01937-N.D., 9;Nax7 
1895 

1938-N.D., 15; Nav^-7 1939—N.D., 17; G. Tech, 14 3 1 0 1915 7 1 0 1935 7 11 1939-N.D., 14; Naw 0 1940—N.D., 26; G. Tech, 20 1896 4 3 0 1916 8 1 
0 1936** 6 2 1

7 1941—N.D., 20; G. Tech, 0 1897 4 1 1 
1917 6 1
1940-N.D., 13; Na 4 7, 1942—JSr.D., 6; G. Tech, 13 1 1937** 6 2 1 
1898 4 2
1941—N.D., 20; Nav^; 13 1943—N.D., 55; G. Tech, 13 0 1918 3 1 2 1938** 8 1 0
1942-N.D., 9;Nav^ S 1899 6 3 1
1944—N.D., 21; G. Tech., 0 1919** 9 0 
0 1939 7 2 01943-N.D., 33: Navjr 6 

1900 6 3 1 1920** 9
Totals—208 105 0
1944-N.D., 13;Navy:32 0 1940 7 2 0 
N.D. Won 13. lost 2 1901 8 1
Totals—^244 107 1 1921** 10 1 0 1941 8 0 1 
N.D. Won 14, Lost 4 1902 5 2 1 1922 
8 1 
1 1942 7 2 2 

GREAT LAKES 1903 8 0 1 1923 9 
1 
0 1943* 9 10U. S. MILITARY ACAD. 

1918—N.D., 7; G. Lakes, 7 1904 5 3 
1 1924* 10 0
1913—N.D., 35; Army, 13 0 1944 9 2 0
1942—N.D.. 13; G. Lakes, 13 
191^-N.D 7; Army, 20 1905 5 4 0 1925 7 2
1943—N.D., 14; G. Lakes, 19 
1915—N.D 7; Army, 0 1906 6 1 0 1926 9 1
1944—N.D., 28; G. Lakes, 7 0 Totals 345 75 27 
1916—N.D. 10; Army, 30 1907 6 0 1
Totals— 62 46 1927 7 1
1917—N.D. 7; Army, 2 1 *National Champions
N.D. Won 1. Lost 1. Tied 2 1908 8 1 0 1928 5 
4 

0 **Westei-n Champions

T h i r t Y -t -w o 







Band Thrills Crowds at Home Games 
Last Saturday afternoon the Notre Dame Band completed another series of presentations designed to embellish the home appearances of the "Fighting Irish" football squad. Because of trans­portation difficulties the band was un­able to accompany the team as in for­mer yeax'S, nevertheless they succeeded 
Director H. Lee Hope 

in maintaining their policy of presenting a different set of new and original foi-­mations at each of the games at which they appeared during the season. To re­place the usual band trip the University entertained the men of last semester's band with an excellent turkey dinner at the Hotel La Salle in South Bend shortly before the end of the semester. The band that represented the University during the season was in reality two bands. This was due to the necessity of reor­ganizing the band after the change of semesters that occurred at mid-season. 
For the opening home game of the season tlie band presented as excellent review which featured the formations: TULANE, CHAMP, a huge clock in which the hands moved to introduce appropri­ate musical selections, and finally an outline of the golden dome. At the Wis­consin game the band presented forma­tions including: A tricky marching ma­neuver in mid-field called a "double fake double to the rear march," a large out­line of a badger for Wisconsin, U.S.M.C. in tribute to the Marines who were shortly to be withdrawn from the V-12 unit at the University, and a cannon out of which a human bullet was shot to formed N.D. and played the "Victory March." 
The Northwestern game was the first home game of the new semester and a newly reorganized Notre Dame Band came through with a very creditable performance of fomiations including: WILD-CATS for Northwestern, a large dollar sign for the Sixth War Loan Drive, and ROCK for Notre Dame. The band climaxed its season of football foi-­mations with a sparkling review for the Great Lakes game which featured the playing of "Jingle Bells" as the band came on the field followed by a march­ing three-step to the tune of "Skaters Waltz," LAKES was formed for the visi­
tors, and JIERKY-XJIAS was accompanied by "Deck the Halls with Boughs of Holly" and "I Heard Bells on Christ­mas Day." The show was completed by the formation of a huge Christmas tree 
adorned with ornaments almost five feet in diameter and two Santa • Clauses twirling batons to the tune of "I'm Dreaming of a White Christmas." 
It is quite obvious that few realize the complexity of the many details con­tingent to a single appeai-ance of the Notre Dame Band. These shows ar3 planned weeks in advance and for each minute of public performance many hours of intricate and skilled prepara­tions are necessary. To list even a few of the formalities and processes con­nected with these shows would require far too much space. Possibly a small idea of these problems can be gathered from a consideration of the number of men and the amount of equipment in­volved. Also those who know how hard it is to please a drill master when one is marching in straight lines with full use of his faculties should consider the difficulties involved in marching through complex formations while con­centrating upon the music and the in­strument for which each man is respon­sible. In addition the paper work of those in charge of band affairs is quite beyond the realm of imagination for the vast majority of people. 
In spite of repeated inconsistencies and war-time - difficulties, the Notre Dame Band has succeeded in giving this University one of the best college units in the nation. Again space prevents the recogTiition due to all of the men who have sacrificed their time and enei-gies to contribute their talents to the Uni­versity's band. It is with a considerable sense of pride that they can point to their membership and participation in the activities of the Notre Dame Band. Although the football season has been completed, the band will ocntinue to maintain the musical standards of the completed, the band will continue to season in which it is to play a very active part. 
«mash a Swastika after which the band At half-time, the band goes on maneuvers 
Thirty-three 

MEET THE TEAM EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS ki&6i^>itu>MJMttiiii&i^i&iiAii^^^^iii6^^^ (Continued from page 31) 
(Continued from page 27) 
connoisseur of outdoor life, particularly 
•fishing and hunting, he also like potatoe pancakes. Despite all the thrills to be gained on the gridiron. Art still claims catching his first bass on a flyrod to be his greatest. And just to be happy in life is the ambition of this tackle, par excel­lence. 
MASTRANGELO. JOHN BATTISTA (CUT), Italian sophomore right guard is from Vandergrift, Pa. At Vandergrift high, John won four football monograms while alternating between tackle and fullback. When not indulging in grid activity, he likes to take time out for tennis and pro­fesses an ear for music. He is one of the rarities who liked math in the academic line. 
JOHN W. ADAMS 
ADAMS, JOHN WILLIAM (TREE). Eng-ish-German senior right tackle is the tall­est man on the Notre Dame line, towering 6 feet 7 inches and weighing 218 pounds. John comes from the farm territory of Charleston, Ark., where his parents, six brothers and three sisters are his most enthusiastic rooters. He played football and basketball for Subiaco academy of Subiaco, Ark., and garnered three letters in the former and two in the latter sport. The academy eleven was state non-con­ference co-champion in 1939 and John was named on the all-state team in that year and also in 1940. Relief man for Lou Rym­kus in '42 and for Ziggie Czarobski last year, he is one of the few monogram men returning from the 1943 National Champ­ionship outfit but his play in the spring and summer drills netted him the Frank Hering award as the most-improved line­man. Fried chicken, southern style, tops his food list and his biggest athletic thrill came when he blocked four punts in one game. 
Thirty-four 

Wilfrid Smith, Chicago Tribune: "Nine Notre Dame backs scored ten touchdowns this afternoon in Fenway Park to overwhelm Dartmouth's helpless Indians, 64-0, the highest Irish football score since the Haskell Indians were licked 12 years ago, 73 to 0. Forty thou­sand—a crowd that occupied all seats and overflowed into the corners of the field—watched Notre Dame's parade of power and passes against an opponent unable to gain on the ground and which only twice got inside of Notre Dame's 20 yard line." 
_<•_ 

Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun: 
"Notre Dame, rolling on unbeaten, un­tied and not scored upon, was a football facsimile of a hurricane here today as it roared through its first Boston apijear­ance of all time with a 64-0 victory over Dartmouth College's overmatched and overpowered young squad before a ca­pacity audience of 40,000 in Fenway Park. This crushing triumph, added to earlier victories over Pittsburgh and Tulane, leaves the new young Fighting Irish force with a record of 148 points scored and none given up in three games. Today's devastating splurge represents the largest score achieved by any Notre Dame team since 1932, when Haskell Institute was beaten, 73-0." 
—•— Dave Egan, Boston Advertiser: "The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, rampaging along the road that leads to­ward another national championship, paid their first visit to Boston yesterday afternoon and the Dartmouths wish they had not. Rolling up the highest score that any Notre Dame eleven had achieved since anno Domini 1932, when they outpointed the Haskell Indians by the margin of 73-0, the kids in the Kelly gi-een anvilled and cudgelled Dartmouth to a humiliating 64-0 defeat at Fenway Park, yesterday afternoon, before an awed audience that filled each nook and corner of the park." 
Jim Costin, Sports Editor, 
South Bend Tribune: 
"The 1944 Notre Dame football team, about which so many of us were feeling so sad because it was made up of prac­tically nothing but boys of no previous college experience, exploded all over the Pitt stadium before 55,000 astonished fans this afternoon to hand the Panthers a 58 to 0 lacing." 
Ed Costello, Boston Herald: Forty thousand football fans jammed their way into Fenway Park yesterday afternoon with one thought in mind. (Continued on page 37) 
Notre Dame Jackets 

SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP 
121 W. CoUax Ave. 
g7TOW9~?9WCT7TO7W77?7797WW9CTW7W9WT9?979997^^ 
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE 
at 
South Bend's Leading Jeweler 
A wide selection of 

Desirable Gifts 
on display. 

Use our lay-away plan. 

body considers the biggest triumph in 

Bob Brown is Fans' 

his career the "Brown Incident" of the Cheerleader de Luxe recent Northwestern game which en­
deared him to the St. Mary's girls, and BY MORGAN ("Boake") CARTDER put him on "People-to-dislike" list of the 
I I

V-7 sailors stationed on campus. Amid the thundering excitement of Brown has gi-eat plans for the future, i mill h-fUdc^e the diiiance. i 
gridiron warfare echoing from the sta­dium Saturday, there has never been a doubt of fans being "aware" of the pres­ence of a certain cheerleader de luxe. His "bobby-sox" fans literally tear down the stadium with their husky yells from the end zone, as he goes through his weekly routine. The amount of applause he draws, along with his extreme popu­larity act as his reference. His cart­wheels, jumps, handstands, and physical antics are the hit of every game. 
His name has been of great interest to the "bobby-soxer." Cheerleader Bob Brown, better known as "Peabody" or "Ensign," is a senior V-12 electrical en­gineering student in his more serious moments. Versatile "Peabody" holds down the first battalion Commander's 
job as well as being vice-president of the local student chapter of the Ameri­
can Institute of Electrical Engineers. 
Now that Seaman Brown has passed his 21st birthday ( a feat he accom­plished this past week) he just dares anyone to ask for his ID card. Pea­however, after his discharge from the navy. He plans on retiring after gradu­ation to a sheep ranch in Colorado, where he will concentrate on developing a more intelligent breed of sheep by feeding them his old test papers and his EE lab reports. 


Cris Hifs If On The Nose 
As the football season came to a color­ful close last week, so did the SCHOLAS­TIC Student Poll. This week, congratula­tions are extende'd to Cris Rehkopf, civilian freshman from Memphis, Tenn., who predicted that we would beat Great Lakes by a score of 27 to 7. This was the first time this season that anyone had picked the exact score of a Notre Dame game. Although Cris is now tak­ing a pre-med course, it is believed his knack of forecasting the score would make him an excellent profit if put to use early enough. Congratulations, Cris! 
—Chuck Sartore 
I 
f
I
I
I
I 
Place your out-of-town orders now — save wiring expense and last minute rush. 
i 
* Corsages i 
* Cut Flowers 
* Potted Plants 
I i
I
f i% 
i 


WILLIAMS THE FLORIST I 
2?= 
West of the Oliver Hotel 
:S 
Phone 3-5149 r;[^a6a!K5rs?»;^::Eii!:B*s^!SSr!5SxaaisSr«:^ 


:$^"$-$-$"$^-0"$-$-$'$-$^$-$-$''$~$-$^-$~$r^-$'$"$^~$~$"$^ 




The Oliver Hotel 
• • • SaJUUei . 

The FIGHTING IRISH 
and 4fau'fie iiill AfcUioHol QUamfUoHl ta iUH 
T h i r t y - f i V e 

EVENING MEAL IN THE DINING HALL — LIKE A FILLING STATION 

The Foolball Irish Off the Gridiron 
It's a long, busy day for football men at Notre Dame. The daily routine is crowded with a variety of activities, leaving less than two hours for daily practice. In each hall, bells ring early. After Mass and Morning Prayers, there is the morning trek to the dining hall for a good substantial breakfast — on game days, a huge steak and baked potato with trimmings, mountains of toast and milk. From there it's to classes. Then comes the noon meal, which Trainer "Scrap" Young says must be very light — tea and toast, nothing more. After that, it's more classes, and then to practice. After the drills on the turf of Cartier Field, the boys trod hungrily to the dining hall where they satisfy their appetites with the victuals necessary to keep a group of earnest gridders in top shape. In their humble opinion (they will tell you) no man has ever had enough steak — it isn't possible to provide that much. And the same is true of roast beef. Here, we see the boys at their evening meal — the entire squad sitting side by side, table after table, and very busy. 
Then at night, there is the get-together for a few minutes each evening, talking things over in general, 
— some football, some studies, and just plain talking. In this informal shot, a group of the players have gathered in historic Sorin Hall for a few minutes of cramming for tomorrow's quiz. Football or no foot­ball, everyone had better be sharp. Here v/e see the learned "Dr." Szymanski drawing a delicate distinction in a disputed point with Capt. Pat Filley, as the others look on in admiration. 
The Besf I've Seen 
"On 13 dates, which provided 14 games, a great many fine football players came into view, operat'ng for a total of 16 different teams. . . Were I to want a composite team of that entire group, judging only on what the young men did on the days I I saw them, I think I would wind up with Bob Jenkins of Navy, Glenn Davis and Doc B!anchard of Army and Les Horvath of Ohio State as a backfield. . . Up front wou'd be Poole of Army and Dugger of Ohio State at ends, Sullivan of Notre Dame and Whitmire of Navy at tackes, Hackett of Ohio State and Serpico of Illinois at guards and Szymanski of No're Dame at center." 
JIM KEARNS, Chicago "Sun" 

Adams, Szymanski, Dancewicz, Kelly. Filley. and Toczylowski. Thirty-six 
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS 
(Continued from page 34) 
They had heard and read for years that 
when it comes to football Notre Dame 
teams are good. They wanted the Fight­
ing Irish of South Bend, Ind., to prove 
it. And prove it they did, sending- 40,000 
football fans away from Thomas A. 
Yawkey's baseball house satisfied after 
watching the football activity of Notre 
Dame against Dartmouth college for two 
hours and 36 minutes." 
Joe Trimble, JVcjv York Daily NeTVs: 
"The mighty host of Notre Dame 
paid their first visit to staid old Boston 

this afternoon and left the Beaneaters 
agape as they gixund a hapless eleven 
from Dartmouth into the Fenway Park 
sod by a 64-0 score. Lured by the magic 

name of Notre Dame, a capacity crowd 
of 40,000 came out and marveled at the 
brilliance of the Irish eleven as it 
whirled through ]0 touchdowns." 
—•— 

Howell Stevens, Boston Post: "Immoi-tal Notre Dame, king-pin of the American football firmament for the last quarter of a century, added fresh lustre to its gTidiron fame in its Boston bow at Fenway Park yesterday, the dazzling, green-shirted dervishes, directed by Tex­as Ed McKeever, blitzing' a game but thoroughly outclassed Dartmouth team, 64 to 0, as a capacity crowd of more than 40,000 spectators watched in awe." 
Irving Vaughan, Chicago Tribune: "Notre Dame's football power plant, although minus Bob Kelly, its No. 1 dy­namo, had no trouble turning on enough juice today to hang a defeat on North­westei-n's hapless but willing- Wildcats, before a stadium crowd of 4S,C00. The Irish bounced back from their decisive trimmings at the hands of Na\'y and Army to reg-ister a 21-0 success that un­veiled another squirming, fancy step­ping ball carrier in th2 person of Jim Erennan, 155 pound freshman from Mil­waukee " 
—•>— 

Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune: "Two quick touchdowns in the first six and a half minutes of play, and an­other in the fourth quarter to climax a 50-yard drive, gave Notre Dame's youth­ful football team a 21-0 victory over North western's just-as-youthful squa d yesterday afternoon in the Notre Dame stadium before 48,000." 
_•:•-.­

Leo Fischer, 
Chicago Herald-American: 

"It took the smallest man on Notre Dame's big football squad to put the Irish back on the Victory road this af­tarnoon. Jimmy Brennan, who stands all Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun: of 5 feet, 7 inches in height and weighs "Eighteen-year-old Jimmy Brennan of 155 pounds in his heavier moments, Milwaukee, a freshman left halfback, scampered across the goal line on long whose program weight is 155 pounds, runs twice within the first ten minutes today escorted Notre Dame back into the of action against Northwestern this af­path of victory, if not football glory, ternoon, and sparked his team to a 21-0 with two darting first quarter touch­victory before some 48,000 well-chilled down runs that sparked the Irish to a customers in the Notre Dame stadium." 21-0 verdict over hapless Northwestern.'* 





SEE HERE! 
Slate grey Regu'ation 

NAVY SHIRTS The Navy Sfore Is TIES now equipped wlfh SOCKS a stock of: HANDKERCHIEFS 
NAVY STORE Zero Deck, Dining Hail 
ELLSWORTH'S 112th CHRISTMAS 
Gifts for everyone on 
your Christnnas list! 
For the "Girls" 
Perfumes ....2.00 to 22.50 Jewelry 1.00 to 45.00 Lingerie 2.50 up Handbags 5.00 Hosiery 1.01 

From Our Men's Shop 
Shirts 2.24 up Ties 1.00 Sweaters 3.50 Billfold 2.00 
Thirty-seven 

Mike Ganey: "AVatching Kelly to Vince Scott: "Playing a couple of Maggioli lateral that won the Illinois times on the ofl'ense with the varsity in 



Oniik 'Ili^uUi 

game." scrimmage." 
Capt. Pat Filley: "Being able to play again for Notre Dame." Bob Kelly: "Playing football for Notre Dame." 
George Sullivan: "Being acting cap­tain when Pat Filley was out of the line-up." 
Fi-ank Szymanski: "Playing 57 min­utes without dropping in the Army game." 
Nunzio Marino: "Starting the Notre Dame-Army game and making a touch­down in the Dartmouth game." 
Pete Berezney: "Making a bona fide tackle wliich knocked out a Dartmouth Indian." 
John "Tree" Adams: "Beating Tu­lane." Ken Schuster: "Playing in the Army game." Fred Rovai: "Recovering a fumble in the Illinois game." Ai-t Mergenthal: "Starting the Wis­consin game." 
Elmer Angsman: "Running 75 yards for a TD against Wisconsin and then ha^ang the play called back for offside." 
Jim Brennan: "Making first touch­down in Northwestern game." 
Fi-ank Dancewicz: "Watching Bren­nan make first touchdown in Northwest­ern game." 
Joe Gasparella: "Beating former teammates at Pitt." George Martz: "Beating Georgia Tech, 21-0." 
Tom Guthi'ie: "Playing in the Army game at New York." —John Mastrangelo: "Starting in the Pitt game." 
Steve Nemeth: "Going 60 yards for a TD in the Dartmouth game." Chick Maggioli: "Making the unnning touchdown against Illinois." Doug Waybright: "Starting against, and beating Georgia Tech." Marty Wendell: "Plajdng in the Illi­nois game." Mark Limont: "Scoring a touchdown in the Pitt game." Steve Toczylowski: "Playing before hometown crowd at Boston." 
•Joe Westenkirchner: "Starting against Northwestern." Frank Ruggerio: "Beating Georgia Tech, 21-0." Ed Fay: "Playing with Notre Dame in the Pitt game." John Glaab: " Getting in and being able to play for Notre Dame." Ray Fi-anklin: "Being able to go out for the team." Joe Yonto: "Being able to olay for ND." 
Dan Huntoon; "Being able to be a member of an ND, team." 
Thirty-eight 

Art Archer: "Beating Georgia Tech, Bob Hull: "Get.ing to scrimmage 21-0." against the first two teams." Rich Bernhardt: "Being on a Notre Bob White: "Coming to Notre Came." Dame team." John Durata: "Playing with the boys 
Carl Eilei-s: "Dressing for the North­here." western game and having a chance to George Rebman: "Being on the play for Notre Dame." squad." 
Peter Ricciardi: "Dressing next to Dick Janson: "Being on a great Notre George Martz all year." Dame football squad." Chuck Yakemonis: "Being with the Charles May: "Playing on the offense fellows on the ND team." once." 
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS CANDY 
GYM PANTS TOBACCO 
V 


PIPES 

PLAIN "T" SHIRTS 
SUPPORTERS STATIONERY 

SOFT DRINKS ,^ SANDWICHES 



THE HUDDLE 
19 Troins Daily to CHICAGO 
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 
7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 
12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Ofiice, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111. 
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R. 



SOUMORE 

Managers-Behind the Scenes Burden-Bearers —Are a Main Cog in Athletic Machine 
By JACK MILES "Scholastic" Sports "Writer 
Great stars have sported the Gold and His roommate, Ted Rademaker, is the Blue and brought glory to Notre Dame. associate manager in charge of equip­But behind these teams is an indispen­ment. He works with equipment head sable organization, the Managers' Staff. McAllister, and is responsible to him. 
This organization, started by the late Ted is also a junior, hailing from Peru, Knute Eockne, operates on a system Ind. His schedule on trips differs great-his destination, he engages a truck to carry the equipment to the stadium. The day of the game, he lays the uniforms out, then settles back and waits for the team. Finally, he is responsible for get­ting the equipment back to Notre Dame. The tall, blond Hoosier is majoring in Accounting. 
More Always Welcome 
The other associate is another junior. He is Ernie Eauscher, who is probably best remembered as one of the 127­pound finalists in last Spring's Bengal Bouts. He assists the other managers in their work, does personnel work, and types many of the official communiques. Bloomfield, N. J., claims him as a native son. Ernie is a student in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in English. 



mm-'' 

Ernest W. Rauscber John H. Graif Theodore C. Rademaker 
that is copied by many colleges. As a freshman, you are one of the many freshman managers who perform vari­ous functions at the whim of the head manager. The sophomore managers are a smaller, more select group who have much the same duties as the freshman, but usually not as rigorous. The junior managers generally are about three in number, and have much of the "white­collar" work. From their midst comes the senior manager. He is the business; the money man; the boss. Because of the business-training managers receive, they are often in demand by large firms and corporations. 
John Graii in Charge 

The war has altered this system somewhat. Tall, bespectacled Johnny Graif, a junior, handles the head man­ager's job. Johnny, who calls Mankato, Minn., home, does most of the typing (practice notices, letters to other coach­es, etc.). Some people think that when the Irish go on a trip, they just arrive automatically. This matter, however, becomes quite a headache to Mr. Graif. He is responsible for getting the players excused from classes, holding the train tickets, checking on hotel reservations, securing transportation to and from the stadium, and doling out spending money to the team. The scholarly-looking Graif considers his experience a boon in his studies. He is majoring in Business Ad­ministration. 
ly from that of the head manager. He leaves with the equipment the day be­fore the team entrains. Upon reaching 

CONGRATULATIONS 
to the Notre Dame Eleven of '44 
BRENNAN. Left Halfback 
O'CONNOR, End 

SULLIVAN, Left Tackle 
CAPT. FILLEY, Guard 
SZYMANSKI, Center ROVAI, Guard MERGENTHAL, Right Tackle 
SKOGLUND, End 

DANCEWICZ, Quarterback 
MAGGiOU, Left Halfback 
KELLY, Right Halfback 
ANGSMAN, Fullback 
GASPARELLA, Fullback 
WESTENKIRCHNER. Right Guard MARTZ. Left Guard RAY. Center 
ADAMS, Left Tackle 
WENDELL. Fullback 
NEMETH, Left Halfback 
GUTHRIE, End 


PARKER-WINTERROWD. Inc. 
ll5'/z-ll7'/2 N. Main Street 
Thirty-nine 

WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY 
5 ^ 

NOTRE DAME, OUR MOTHER 
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee.. Golden is thy fame. And out hearts forever. Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever. Love thee, Notre Dame. 
VICTORY MARCH 
Rally sons of Notre Dame; Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Noue Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game. Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And we'll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: 

Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 


Have a Coca-Cola 
Rah! Rah! Rah! Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry. Gathering foemen fling to the sky. Fight! Fight! Fight! Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, Mardi to the battle, Notre Dame! Rah! Rah! Rah! 
Chorus: 

And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game. Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through. They'll sweep the foemens ranks away; When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day. 
DOWN THE LINE On down the line! beside the glory of her name. On down the line! beneath the colors of an ancient fame. On down the line! another day for her proclaim; Old Gold and Blue — you're going through! Go down the line for Notre Dame! • * • 
HIKE SONG The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it's the hike, hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are wiiming When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high. Hark to the roar as the ranks go mardiing by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame. 

= Put 'er there, old timer 
... or greeting new pals in Ketchikan 
In Alaska, just as here in the States, to say Have a "Coke" is to say Pal, we're right glad you're here, just as it does in your own home. In many lands around the globe, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola has become a symbol of a friendly way of living. 
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOHLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 
u u 
It's natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbrevia­tions. That's why you hear Cbca-Cbla called "Coke". 
F t5 r t y 

THE GREEN BANNER (Continued on page 29) SECOND DITTO: "What makes you think so?" FIRST DODO: "We're hitting more people." —•— 
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE While reading the Carnegie Tech Tar­tan, we were surprised to discover that the editor-in-chief and the managing-editor are hushand and wife. 
_•>_ 

HURRAH FOR OUR SIDE "They hit the line, they run the ends— They flip 'em long and short— Our Hoosier lads build up the gi-ads Who go for gridiron sport. Hcernschemeyer is back with Bo's lU., Bob Kelly sparks the Gold and Blue; They're backfield rich at Old Purdue— Let others weep and wail! 
"The single wing possesses sting For Indiana's men— And Irish 'T' is bringing glee To Notre Dame again— Purdue has four who seem to play A lot of backfield every way, I guess this IS the Hoosier's day Along the gi-idiron trail." 
(J. V. A., in the Indianapolis Neius). 

• PHOTOGRAPHY • 
• For the pictures appearing in this • 
•> issue, the SCHOLASTIC is grateful *> *> to Don Ferstel, and to staU photog- <* *> rapher Charles Renaud. <* • The Editors • 
•^ 4^ *^ •^ ^ ^ 4^ 4^ «^ «^ •*• ^ •^ ^ *^ *^ *S* 
THE SHILLELAGH (Continued from page 32) 

Don't forget good old "Scrap" Young. There's plenty of work turned out in the dressing room that some people never see and a lot of jjeople forget. Don't forget! 
Bob Skoglund arid Marty Wendell played good ball all the time they were in the game. 
To all of Notre Dame's ten opponents I believe we ought to say "We're glad to have met you — Yes, that means Army and Navy, too, — hope to keep on seeing you!" 
Jim Dailer was stepping along like a pretty good halfback after his impor­tant interception in the Great Lakes game. That might be considered as the turning point of the contest. 
Well, we're signing off. Notre Dame is proud of all the boys, all the coaches, all the time. See you all later! 
F/PsrA/o FOR THE TANKS 
SOUTH BEND LATHE 
Hurtling at top speed over rough terrain, fighting dust and dirt as well as enemy shell fire, even the toughest of tanks may occasionally call for me­chanical first aid. 
Dangerously close to the battle lines, gallant crews of skilled technicians follow -with their mo­bile machine shops ready to make emergency re­pairs on any ailing tank and speed it back into action. And there are not many jobs they can't do in thefield, for their equipment is carefully selected to provide the utmost versatility and precision. 
An essential tool in the mobile shop is the lathe. We are proud that one of our wartime assignments is to supply South Bend Precision Lathes for these indispensable units in America's motorized army. 
SOUTH BEND 22, INDIANA 

 WORKS LATHB BUILOeHS FOK 37 YBAKS 
^ ^; MARVINS will help you select the RIGHT Gift! 
• 

Time now to mail those packages! 
126 N. HCchigan Street 
Forty-one 



JOT THIS DOWN MR. SANTA! 
When you arc in a "Help! 
Help!" spot telephone, ask "in person," write to . . . 

Joan Navarre Wyman's Personal Shopper 
Confide your gift troubles to her and in a trice they will be answered more than sat­isfactorily .. . in fact with pleasure and success! 
South Bend 24, ind. 

MEET THE MEN BEHIND THE LINE (Continued from page 30) 
any game, it is necessary that he tele­phone Mr. Duley, otherwise he is subject to dismissal. 
Mr. Duley is glad to announce that since the beginning of the war, more than 350 ushers have been called to the colors, but that on their return, their old positions, together with their rank, will be waiting for them. 
To augment this staff of ushers, police officers are stationed all over the stadium. 
These ushers, especially those with titles, think a great deal of their work, and do everything possible to maintain themselves in their positions. The super­visory officers deserve a great deal of credit; all hold regular or executive positions in iirms downtown, but they never hesitate to come to help plan, and to iron out details and make necessary lay-outs for the coming game. 
Together with the banners, the col­lege "kids," both fancied and real, the heavy football blankets, and all that makes the football atmosphere, the pat­tern includes all these groups and or­ganizations behind the scenes. The won­derful spectacles of the past season will live and re-live in the minds of all true Notre Dame fans. 
ATTENDANCE  FIGURES  
Pittsburgh  60,000  
Tulane  45,000  
Dartmouth  40,000  
Wisconsin  40,000  
Illinois  65,000  
Navy  65,000  
Army  76,000  
Northwestern  48,000  
Georgia Tech  30,000  
Great Lakes  38,000  

507,000 1943 Attendance 504,000 
^-^-^-^-^-^^^-^-^-^•^"^^ 








STOP NOW 
at the 
BOOKSTORE 
for the 
Christmas Gifts 
you want to mail! 
•
 N. D. Jewelry 

•
 N. D. Pillows 


*
 Souvenirs 

*
 Christmas Cards 





BOOKSTORE 
Badin Hall 
•^-^^^^-^^-^-^^-^-^^^-Q­
Forty-tTwo EXCERPTS FROM EXPERTS (Continued from page 23) 
comparatively little—^just as his prede­cessor, Frank, Leahy, predicted he would. The South Bend contingent has all of the old Notre Dame fii*e and spir­it. It also has a better-than-fair pass­ing attack, while Kelly is liable to go all the way for a touchdown every time he gets his hands on the ball." 
—•— Arch Ward, Sports Editor, Chicago Tribune: "The 11th of November has come and gone and Notre Dame has not sought an armistice in its gridiron warfare with the Army. . . . Notre Dame is not the only organization that has learned that 1944 is Uncle Sam's year on the land, on the sea, and in the air. . . . There are many in New York today who are criti­cizing Lt. Col. Earl Blaik, West Point coach, for piling up a 59 to 0 score on the Irish in Yankee stadium yesterday afternoon. . . . They point out that Notre Dame last year and on many other occa­sions could have rolled up a count equal­ly as decisive, but somehow always managed to slow its attack after ac­quiring a comfortable lead. . . . None of these complaints originates with Notre Dame men. . . . For one thing, Army had waited 13 years to win a football game from the Irish. . . . The Cadets had been on top only five times in 30 years prior to yesterday's engagement. . . . Nobody 

can honestly say that Ai-my hadn't dem­onstrated its ability to take it. . . . The same goes for Notre Dame. . . . That's why the Army-Notre Dame series has been football's greatest attraction these many years. . . . 
"Coach Ed McKeever and his players swallowed hard as they left the field and then hurried back to South Bend to re­group their forces for a fresh start in 
Mr. Arch Ward 
1945. . . . With the exception of Navy, we can think of no college team in the land that could have done much better than did Notre Dame. ... The Irish were up against an Army team that probably will be recognized as the greatest ever put together. . . . Victory over Navy is all it will take to prove it. . . . Notre Dame now gets back into competition with teams somewhere in its class. Northwestern, Georgia Tech, and Great Lakes. .. . It will be interesting to see how the squad rebounds from the most disastrous two w^eeks in gridiron con­flict in the university's history. .. . K it wins two of the three games .. . no easy assignment . . . McKeever's eleven will have a record of seven victories and three defeats, which is good enough for any school playing the kind of schedule arranged for Notre Dame. . . . The events of the last three weeks, w-hich in­clude that narrow victory over Illinois, prove one point definitely . . . Notre Dame does not have all the great foot­ball talent in the land, as many have charged. .. . It has a squad made up substantially of lY- and 18-year-old boys who perhaps plays a bit harder than do similar gi-oups at other universities be­cause that's the spirit of Notra Dame." 
GIFTS 
for those at home-beautifully boxed and wrapped. 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
GENERAL DENTISTRY. 
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE '4-5661 
702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BENO. INO. 
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER 
DENTISTS 
503 SHERLANO BUILDING PHONE 3-I2S4 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 
azs SHERLAND BUILDING 
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.O. 
TELEPHONE 3-4269 
ROSE DENTAL GROUP 
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.O.5. 
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. 
PETER J . ROSE. D.D.S. 
623-6Z9 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND. 
DR. O. J. GRUNDY 
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS 
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-Xa74 
Forty-three 







