Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 35 Issue 14 14 December 1901 
NOTRE DAME SCHOi:ASTIC. 2.2>J, 
Our Gridiron Heroes. 

Now that the season of football is over, the 
SCHOLASTIC feels obliged to make mention of 
the moleskin heroes who upheld our prestige 
on the gridiron and fought so nobly in many 
hard struggles for the honour of the Gold and 
Blue. Never before has a Notre Dame eleven 
achieved such a glorious record as the one 
gained by the Varsity of 'oi. The entire 
schedule, a hard one too, was played through 
without a defeat, the Northwestern game 
being conceded as practically a victory for us. 
Our goal line was crossed but three times— 
once on a fluke. 

For the first time we won the proud title of Champions of Indiana, and at the end of the season we ranked as leader of the second division of Western Colleges, Michigan, Wis­consin,, and Minnesota being in a class by themselves. The SCHOLASTIC congratulates the gentlemen of the Varsity on their brilliant showing. All hail to them, to Coach O'Dea, Trainer Butler, Manager Crumley, and the members of the Second Eleven, who all worked faithfully for the success of the Gold and Blue. 
CAPT. ALBERT E . FORTIN (Right Tackle). 

Besides filling the responsible position of Captain, Fortin also took care of right tackle in a very successful manner. During his four years' stay on the team he has won the dis­tinction of being a very heady player, steady and reliable at all times. He is especially clever on defensive work. In the Beloit game he did some brilliant offensive playing which was largely responsible for our victory. The Captain is but twenty years old, weighs 185 pounds, and measures five feet nine inches. 
LOUIS SAMMON (Full-back). 

This is Sammon's second year on the Varsity. Last season he established a reputa­tion for himself in the Michigan game by his line-bucking, but this season he far surpassed all previous efforts. His work all year was closely watched by the critics who are unani­mous in declaring him one of the best full-backs in the West. In addition to his line-bucking abilities, Lou developed into a first-class punter, and several times has kicked seventy yards. Sammon also displayed rare judgment as field captain, his marvellous coolness mak­ing him the ideal man for the position. Lou is but twenty-one years old, five feet nine and a half inches in height and weighs 165 pounds. 
JAMES FARAGHER (Left Tackle.) 
Faragher was one of,the mainstays of the team both on offensive and defensive, work. In his position as tackle he has but few equals in the West. Jim rarely failed „to gain when given the ball, and was a hard man to down when once started. On the defensive he made possible many big gains for our backs by his ready way of open'ng up a hole in the line. Jim is twenty-five years old, is five feet "ten inches in height, and tips the scales at 198 pounds. This is his second year. 
C. L. GiLLEN (Left Guard.) Gillen was one of the most conscientious players on the team. On offensive work he was very strong, and generally managed to make an opening in the line when it was needed. His defensive work was equally brilliant, and but few gains w^ere made through his portion of the line. Nace is twenty-four years of age, weighs 185 pounds, and measures 
five feet ten inches. This is his second year on the Varsity. 
JOHN PICK (Centre.) 
Centre was well taken care of by Pick. His cleverness and ability to handle himself quickly made him more than a match for any of his opponents. Pick is very fast on his feet, and in the Indiana game his speed and deadly tackling prevented several long runs. In passing the ball he is very accurate. On the defensive his work all season was brilliant, and but-few gains were made. through: his territory. This is his last year on the team. Pick is twenty-three years of age, weighs .190 pounds, and is six feet tall. 
F. M. WINTER (Right Guard.) 
For the. past three seasons Winter has held down centre, but this year he was shifted to guard where he did creditable work. " Fat" is a very shifty player and knows how to use his weight to advantage. He is a stonewall on defense, and on offense is very active in opening up a hole for the backs. His clever defensive work was particularly noticeable 
"in the Purdue ganie. "Fat" is twenty-two years of age, weighs 218 pounds, and is five feet eight inches tall. 
JAMES. L. DORAN (Left Half.) 
Dorah, a new man, proved to be a valuable-acquisition to the team. Early in the season' he was placed at end where he did creditable work. Later on, Coach O'Dea decided to tiy 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
him at half, and the wisdom of his choice was shown in the very first game he played the position. He is good on smashing interference, and as an offensive player has but few equals on the team. In both championship contests he did brilliant work in this respect. "Jim" is twenty-one years old, six feet in height, and weighs 175 pounds. 
H.4RLEY E. KiRBY (Right Half.) 

Kirby was undoubtedly the find of the season, and although this was his first year on the Varsity, he developed into one of the best half-backs Notre Dame ever had. In the Purdue game he did brilliant work on both the offensive and the defensive, and his long runs were a large factor in deciding the contest. He is very fast on his fet^t, a sure tackier, and at hurdling the line has but few equals. Kirby is twenty years of age, weighs 176 pounds, and is six feet in height. 
HENRY J. MCGLEW (Quarter-Back.) 

Our clever little quarter - back won an enviable reputation for himself by his good work. Although he is the lightest man on the team, his vim and dash more than made up for his lack of weight. At quarter-back he passed through the championship contests without a fumble, and during the whole season made but. few. This is a record which few quarter-backs in the country can boast of. Mac is also strong on interference, and more than once has made a long run possible. His clever tackling saved our goal line many times. Mac is twenty years old, weighs 155 pounds, and is five feet eight inches in height. 
F. J, LoNERGAN (Right End). "Happy" was a new man on the team, but before many games were played he became one of the idols of the rooters. His long runs and clever, defensive playing, his fast work in going down the field on punts, and his 
splendid interfering on runs around his end, made him a very valuable-man. In the P. and 
S. game he did some spectacular playing, one time running fifty yards for a touchdown through a crowded field. Happy is nineteen years of age, is five feet nine inches tall and weighs 165 pounds. 
G. NYERE (Left End and Q. B.) 

Early in the season Nyere tried for quarter­back position and in the first few' games did clever work. On account of his fast work in going down the field on punts and his tackling he was shifted round to end, where he proved to be valuable. A bad injury to his arm kept him out of the Purdue and Indiana games, but in the P. and S. and South Bend games he played brilliantly. Nyere is twenty-one years old, weighs 165 pounds, and is five feet nine inches in height. 
GEORGE LINS (Half Back and End). 
Early in the season Lins-was placed at half­back where he did good work. In the Indiana and Purdue games he was tried at ends where his aggressive playing was very much in evidence. He is strong on smashing inter­ference, and generally succeeds in getting through and nailing his man. Lins is twenty-two years old, six feet tall, and weighs 185 pounds. This is his fourth and last year as a Varsity man. 
E. J. PEIL (Guard.) When Gillen received the injury which prevented him from entering the Purdue game. Coach O'Dea and Captain Fortin were at a loss to know what to do for a guard. Peil came to the rescue, and on account of his good showing in practice was chosen to fill the gap. His plucky work in that game is too well known to be commented on. Peil will, no doubt, be a strong candidate for guard next vear. He is twenty years old, stands five 
feet eight inches in height, and weighs 179 pounds. 
D. J. O'MALLEY (Guard and Half-Back). O'Malley was tried at half-back for awhile and proved to be a strong man. His tendency to run high when carrying the ball was a fault which greatly handicapped him. In the North­western game his brilliant defensive work at guard was one of the features. Dominick is 
twenty-four years old, is six feet tall and weighs ig8 pounds. 
J. HANNAN (Half-Back). 
Hannan was unfortunate in the early part of the season, and in the Northwestern game received injuries that prevented him from doing any more active playing. In the game with O. S. U. his work gave great promise, and in the Northwestern game he also did good work. His one fault is slowness in start­ing, but this can be easily remedied by practice. Hannan will be a valuable man next year. He is twenty years of "age, weighs one hundred and seventy-five pounds, and stands five feet ten inches in height. 


230 NOTRE DAME 
J. J. CuLLiNAN (Sub Tackle). 

Joe is a strong, reliable player and when called upon to relieve any of the regular tackles, grave a good account of himself. He 
' ^ ^ , . , , is twenty two years of age, weighs 172 pounds, 
. I . ^ 
and is five feet ten 
F. J. SHAUGHNESSY i^ Shaughnessy is 
. ^ ' . ^, . f ^

 inches in height. , , (Sub End and Q. B.) another new man who 
showed up well when he was called upon. At end he was strong on defensive, but few gains JDeing made against him. Late in the season he was tried at quarter-back on the second team and proved a success. Shaughnessy is but -Eighteen years old, weighs 170 pounds, . andJis 6 feet i ^ inches in height. 
: :­= C. D. COLEMAN (Sub Half-Back.) Coleman is one of the lightest men on the 
team, but-very aggressive. He is good at line-bucking, and a clever defensive player, Coleman is twenty years of age, measures five feet eight inches, and weighs 161 pounds.­
\-ki -n \-Ki /c L XT ir T> 1 V 

W. P.WOOD (Sub Half-Back). • Wood has. plenty of pluck,,and although 
light should make a good man next season, He hits the line low, and when he once gets into the open field is a hard man to down. He is twenty-two years old, weighs. 158 pounds, and" measures five feet nine inches.­
And now a word about the gentlemen of our second eleven. For two long months they bore cheerfully with bruises and bumps that the Varsity might receive that practice which makes perfect. Their work was indeed a self-sacrificing one and worthy of the highest 
. praise. That the Gold and Blue was triumph­ant is due as much to their efforts as to anything else. To these men, therefore^ the SCHOLASTIC extends thanks in behalf of every loyal rooter. McGowan, Fensler, Corley, Funk, Hogan, Herbert, Staples, JelscH, GeaVin and McCuilough constituted the team. 
-Pat O'Dea, whose fame as .a football player is world wide, won new laurels for himself as a coach. He developed the team gradually with the idea of having them in' perfect condition for the two State Championship 
. contests, and in this he was successful. Every man on the team placed the greatest confi­dehce in him, and as a result of this harmony >ye were victorious. Nor must we forget to 
^gwG due: credit 
P. Butler and.to popular. manager
:K-' ^•^.-.^•. .-­

'; . , 

to our genial trainer, Mr. Harry V. Crumley, the most the Varsjty has ever had,

 ' Jos. p. O'REILLY. 
SCHOLASTJC. 

Exchanges. 
" 
.  .  ,  *u  r  u  £  n  
A  new  arrival  on  the. field  of  college  
•  ,.  u  u  u  • j  -1.1. i ­ j  
journ alism  should be r eceived with  kindness,  
r  •  . .  ,.\.  c  T^ /^  r J  

but so promising a paper as the 6. V. 6. Index should be greeted with praise. The verses on 
"Twilight" run along metre after the manner They show ability, and
 * . 
quite smoothly, the of Shelley's ICloud." are worthy, of. praise. 
. " ^ 
^ change of our high regard for The ^'^^'^^^^>' University Hfonthly is excluded by the number for October. The.skilful treatment of "Goiirting in French Canada" increases the interest necessarily found in the-subject­matter. After reading "Music" we must conclude that an old subject may be treated in an interesting, original manner. The writer's point of view is not the ordinary one, and she has given us something above the ordinary essayon this subject. In the October number ., -^-i_i 1 1 ^ ther,e is. a noticeable lack of verse,—a state of affairs that we hope to see soon remedied. -j-j^g one piece of verse is " Solace ^of the 5^^," and it is good. The thought is expressed 
.j ^ metre that has , a pleasing swing, and through the verses there is that rare quality, oricrinalitv 
• ~ * * . ­
Another of our most valued exchanges is the University of Virginia Magazine. Each department is well filled, and whether we look for literary-essays, verses, or short stories, we are sure to find them here. Fiction, we may say, is the most pleasing feature of the magazine. There is always a wealth of verses. impressive, not by number alone but by quality. Another form of fiction so promi­nent in this paper is the short story. In the November number there is a story which shows such skilful treatment that we can not pass it by without particular mention. The length of the introduction may be criticised as unnecessary; even so, the writer does so well that we are very interested and rather prefer the lengthy ihtroduction. "Ari Ordinary Fellow" is the story in question, and the author has succeeded in producing soniething of a literary value far superior to the merit of the ordinary story of our college mc.gazines. Essays, however, are not neglected; and since they contain originality, their literary worth can not bie quiestioned. G. W. B. 






