NOVEMBER 26,

 1963 SCHOLASTIC 
P S A ^ ^ 
IIYIIII 

•*^J^''J"f»j).'^*-3JJ*~;<**«^_^^, 
Jt?^^35f':^^'?*^»*»5?^''3*SfT»«*?*SWfS**^| 

ii4if 
% 1 
s.^-**!*! Wxi^:
/ 
mst 
ss:-"-.^-" 

SCHOLASTIC 

At the news of John F. Kennedy's tragic death last Friday, the staff of The Scholastic decided to publish this extra edition in his honor, stressing the particular aspects of his life that related to Notre Dame. He is the only man to have received all of the three highest awards that Notre Dame bestows: the Laetare Medal, an honorary doctorate, and the Patriot of the Year award of the senior class. He was also a member of the Advisory Council for the College of Liberal and Fine Arts. 
We dedicate this issue to his memory. 
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame 
Founded 1867 
Disce Quns! Semper Victunis Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Vol.105 November 26, 1963 Extra 
Tom Hoobler . editor-in-chief 
Dick Stranger 
managing editor 
Mel Noel 
news editor 
Frank Smith 
news assistcmt 
Larry Sicking , . , layout and art editor 
Jack Pope 
copy editor 
Joe Wilson . . . copy editor 
Brian Barnes 
business vianager 
Tom Keane 
. . . circulation 
Frank O'Malley 
faculty advisor 
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second-class 
mail at Notre Dainc, Indiana, at a special 
postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The 
magazine is represented for national advertising 
by National Advertising Scn'icc. Inc., 18 East 
50th Street, New York 22, N.Y. It receives its 
covers including the four-color back-page ad­
vertisement from College Magazines Inc., of New 
York City. Published weekly during the school 
year, except during vacation and examination 
periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave 
Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The sub­
scription rate is $5.00 a year (including all 
issues of the academic year and the FOOTBALL 
REVIEW). The special subscription rale for 
St. Mar>-'s students and faculty is $3.00 a year. 
Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOL­
ASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All imsolicited 
material becomes the property of the SCHOL­
ASTIC. 




The Road 
By Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
N
OTRE DAME^ like other famous universities, is one of the cross roads of the world. Many of the great men of this world, among them President John F. Kennedy, have passed this way and have become members of the Notre Dame family. As a fledgling Congressman, only 33 years old, John Kennedy came here to deliver the Commencement Ad­dress and to receive an honorary de­gree in 1950. As a Senator, a few years later he returned to receive the Patriotism Award from the Senior Qass. He also became a charter member of our Advisory Council for the College of Arts and Letters. Just two years ago, on the same fateful date of November 22, he accepted at the White House, Notre Dame's high­est award, tlie Laetare Medal. 
The words of that last citation speU out the promise of his young life, as the first Catholic to hold the highest post in our land: 
"You have our admiring realiza­tion that your words, embodied in your deeds as Chief Executive, carry the candor and the urgency of the ablest contemporary think­ers in the Church, men whose thought, like yours, is crystallized in this expression: 'Do everything that is to be done with respect for truth, and do it in freedom of spirit, in spite of the obstacles within and without, and in the teeth of selfish­ness, sloth, cowardice, popular opinion. And do it with confidence! When one so acts he paves a road which, followed with sincerity and courage, leads far into the realm where the great things of time are decided." 

And now he is dead, cut down in mid-stride along the road. There is no answer, outside the inscrutable Providence of God, to the question on everyone's hps: Why? But there is an understanding that can mean much more to each of us than a clear-cut answer. In this very real world of shining good and blackest evil, every­one who works for what is good and noble can expect to unleash against himself, all of the dark irrational power of evil — anger, hatred, and violence. John Kennedy, in a very recil sense, was a martyr to these evil forces because he stood without compromise for their opposite reali­ties, peaceful understanding and con­structive human fellowship, here and abroad. The evil does not now dis­appear with the evil deed; it is only starkly and cruelly visible in his tragic death. The road too is still there, stiU leading to' the realm where the truly great tilings of time are yet to be decided, a road still beckon­ing to each of us, a road yet to be walked with sincerity and courage. 
If John Kennedy's death has any message for America and aU the world, it is this: Get on the road, because the hour is late. Tom Dooley's message, borrowed from Robert Frost, was no less urgent: 
The woods are lovely, dark and 
deep. But I have promises to keep And miles to go before I sleep. 
They both sleep now. One can speak of memorials and medals for them, but what greater memorial can Americans, young and old, construct for their heroes than to take up the torch of light that slips from their 
mortal hands, and to continue the im­
mortal work to which their lives, aU 
too brief, were dedicated? 
Too few travel this high road today because few men indeed live lives characterized by commitment and dedication. If this community of Notre Demie men is touched today by the tragic event, let us see it for what it is and be convinced that there is room for aU of us on this road that require high commitment and deep dedication if the great things of time are to be triumphs of good, not evil travesties. 
Human rights and human dignity xequire new champions today and to­morrow. These causes have lost a great cheimpion. Are there new cham­pions in our midst? The Alliance for Progress, the Peace Corps, world-wide and for developing nations require new human talent, rare conviction and personal dedication to become realities. Are we willing to get on the road, or at least prepare well for the day when the road will be ready for us? 
Every trip along this road is dangerous, because it is the high road. Tragedy lurks at every turn; the moment of truth appears each hour of the joiuney. The truest tragedy is not that some like John Kennedy faU victim along the way, but that so many others lack both the commitment and the dedication to get started. Those who fall along the way do indeed become great beacons of light for all who follow them. May this sad day be not one of darkness, no triumph for the pow­ers of evil, but the birth of a great new light that will for years to come inspire others to great deeds, come what may. 

wmmF.m 
"For loitliout belittling the courage icith ivhich men have died, we should not forget those acts of courage with ivhich men . . . have lived. The cour­age of life is often a less dramatic spectacle than the courage of the final moment; but it is no less a mag­nificent mixture of triumph and tragedy." 
T
HESE CLOSING WORDS of John Ken­
nedy's "Profiles in Courage" serve 
as a warning against any dispropor­
tionately dramatic consideration of his 
death. One can produce a valid por­
trait of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, not 
in terms of a few violent moments on 
the streets of Dallas, the assassination 
of a Chief Executive, but only in light 
of a forty-year span of struggle and 
achievement. A man of the late Pres­
ident's vitality would ask no more 
than to be judged as one who lived 
to the full extent of his capabilities. 
A short life by modern standards, but one of extensive activity, began on May 29, 1917. John F. Kennedy was the second of nine children de­scended from a family of colorful public figures. His father, Joseph P. Kennedy, served as Ambassador to Great Britain aind as Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. His maternal grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, was elected Mayor of Boston and also was appointed to a short term in the U.S. Senate. On his father's side. Grandfather Patrick J. Kennedy represented East Boston in the Massachusetts Assembly and State Senate. 
The future President attended ele­mentary schools in his home state and later entered Harvard University. This institution graduated him cum laude in 1940, whereupon the young man decided to join the war effort. After sevei'al months of work to build up his injured back, John finally passed the Navy physical and re­ceived his commission as a PT boat commander. While carrying out a mission in the Solomons, his boat was cut in half by an attacking Jap­anese destroyer. Kennedy, seriously 
injured, towed disabled members of 
his crew to a nearby island and led 
them back to friendly territory after 
nine days behind enemy lines. His ef­
forts merited him the Navy and 
Marine Corps medal, and after treat­
ment of his injuries the young lieu­
tenant was discharged for physical 
disability in March of 1945. 
Back in civilian life, the late Pres­
ident worked for a while as a news­
paperman. He covered the San Fran­
cisco Conference for Chicago's Herald 
Ame7ica7i and the Potsdam Confer­
ence for the International News 
Service. 

Attracted to making news rather than reporting it, John Kennedy ran successfully for a seat in the House of Representatives in 1946. The Na­tional Junior Chamber of Commerce noted that the new Congressman was one of the "most outstanding young men in America." In a year of Re­publican successes, Kennedy had been elected on a platform of "allied co­operation to hold world leadership for the democratic nations of the world." He also stood for a defense policy, one year after the conclusion of peace, that included armaments development and a strong standing army. On the home front, the Congressman "fol­lowed the dictates of his conscience .. . as against sectional political pres­sures," making enemies in New Eng­land while impressing the Midwest with his support of the St. Lawrence Seaway project. 
Supported by an amazing growth in popularity, John Kennedy was elected to the Senate in 1952. This was a double miracle as 1952 saw General Eisenhower sweep the na­tion's electoral and popular votes; also, the man defeated by Kennedy was none other than the respected Henry Cabot Lodge. Additionally sur­prising was the margin of victory — 70,000 votes. 
The late President's years in the Senate produced impressive results. His unsuccessful battle for adequate unemployment compensation benefits, and a successful fight against illegal 
r 
af­
.•• • "> 

V-"» 
ffipi 
i.-' 
I i.'i 
*'>» 

lobbying prompted the St. Louis Post Dispatch to label him "a vigorous friend to the less fortunate." Also on his Senate record were a large num­ber of other "firsts." He proposed a bill raising the minimum wage to one dollar per hour; it was later passed. He also brought up debate on closer relations with France in Indo-China, leading to independence for the peo­ples of this area. In his approach to economic problems, such as the St. Lawrence Seaway, John Kennedy said: "Of course we should not ig­nore the needs of our area — nor could we easily as products of that area — but none could be found to look out for the national interest if local interests wholly dominated the role of each of us." 
At the 1956 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, Mr. Kennedy showed further popularity and polit­ical potential when he was nominated for the vice-presidential candidacy. He lost the nomination by 201/2 votes to Estes Kefauver. 
Then, in 1958, the Senator from Massachusetts again ran for his Sen­ate seat. This time his majority was overwhelming — 870,000 votes. He was the first candidate in the history of Massachusetts to carry every city and county in the state. 
Mr. Kennedy was author of two books: Why England Slept, published in 1940, and Profiles In Courage, pub­lished in 1956. The first is an explana­tion of England's lack of preparation for World War II. The second, a Pul­itzer Prize winner, demonstrates the pressures encountered by Senators who speak out for their beliefs. 
On September 12, 1953, the Sen­ator married Miss Jacqueline Lee Bouvier. Jackie, as the whole world was later to caU her, studied at Vas­sar and George Washington and had worked for a time at the Washington, D.C., Times He)-ald. Their two chil­dren, Caroline and John, Jr., are aged six and three. 
The deep and fierce pride of an Irish immigrant family gave birth to the Presidency of JFK: nurtured in its early stages by his multi­millionaire father, it was brought to fruition through the distinguished ca­reer of Kennedy himself on a tortuous and twisting campaign road. 
The campaign for the Presidency began during the 1956 Democratic convention and continued headlong, vigorously, tenaciously until the elec­tion in which he achieved his goal. The years from 1956-1960 show a Senator striving to achieve nation­wide support to accomplish a goal on the basis of Congressional success. 
"We should not be too hasty in con­demning all compromise as bad morals. For politics and legislation are not matter for inflexible princi­ples or unattainable ideals. It is com­promise that presents each set of reformers — the wets and the drys, the one-worlders and the isolationists, the vivisectionists and the anti­vivisectionists — from crushing the group on the extreme opposite end of the political spectrum." These Senate years, the extensive nation­wide tours, were directed to one goal 

— the election of the first Cath­olic, the youngest elected President, against an opposing party that could campaign on a record of eight years of "peace and prosperity." 
The campaign began to heat up when, on January 2, 1960, the Sen­ator announced his candidacy for the 1960 Democratic nomination. Sena­tors Kennedy and Hubert Humphrey of Wisconsin were the two lead­ing contenders for the nomination, but Kennedy, campaigning furiously, swept the board in all the primaries he entered, including Humphrey's own back yard, Wisconsin. Nominated 
on the first ballot of the convention, he added Lyndon Baines Johnson of Texas as his running mate to unite the party's liberal and conservative factions. 
The ensuing struggle for the elec­tion to the Presidency was expensive, vigorous, and historic. Featuring Ken­nedy-Nixon TV debates, the religious issue, and accusations of identical plat­form programs, the two candidates fought one another for the nation's highest office. In regard to his posi­tion then, he had said, "We shall need compromises in the days ahead, to be sure. But these wiU be, or should be, compromises of issues, not of prin­ciples. We can compromise our politi­cal positions, but not ourselves. We can resolve the clash of interests 
without conceding our ideals." 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy won the election, but just barely. His move to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue was ac­complished by a bare 100,000-vote margin in an election that featured the largest voting turnout in history. Only a few hours before the close win was assured, the family patriarch, Joseph P. Kennedy, confidently voiced his satisfaction that one of his four sons had made it "to the top." 
The picture of the campaigning Kennedy is sometimes thought of as less "humane" and more political (in the ugly sense of the word) than the Kennedy of the early Congres­sional years. But, to explain this ap­parent change we can go back to Profiles In Courage where he stated, "... years in Congress have taught me the wisdom of Lincoln's words: There are few things wholly evil or wholly good. Almost everything, es­pecially government policy, is an inseparable compound of the two, so that our best judgment of the pre­ponderance between them is continu­ally demanded." And he believed, in 
his own system of values, that it was important for him to be President. He carried into the Presidency the attitude that the compromise of ideas was necessary to accomplish practical ideals. "Sure it's a big job," Mr. Ken­nedy once said, "but I don't know anybody who can do it any better than I can. I'm going to be in it for four years. It isn't going to be so bad. You've got time to think — and be­sides, the pay is good." 
Later he realized and admitted that he had grossly underestimated his task. But it is extremely doubtful that he ever swerved from his belief that he was the best man for the job. An admission qualifying, compromis­ing, or refuting this idea would have been a negation of his whole life. 

liBTT "­
JOHN F. KENNEDY: THE PRESIDENT 
By Frank Smith 

" T DO NOT SHRINK from this respon­
••• sibUity — I welcome it." With these words, John Fitzgerald Kennedy began his term of office as the 35th President of the United States and thus took upon himself the leadership both- of this country and of the whole Western World. 
Kennedy's rise to prominence was a political phenomenon. In 1956, the senator from Massachusetts first ap­peared in the national public eye as a candidate for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination. From that time on, the young World War n hero launched a drive that was to make him the youngest man and the first Roman Catholic ever elected President. To memy, Kennedy was a symbol of a new generation of Ameri­can political leaders—youthful, hard-driving, and factually and statistically oriented. Kennedy himself touched upon this idea in his inaugural ad­dress. "Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans — born in this century, tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter peace and proud of our ancient heritage." In this same inaugural address, the new President described a spirit of self-sacrifice which both he and the American people would be required to adopt to insure the spread of the principles of liberty throughout the world. 
Kennedy entered office on a tower­ing pillar of populcirity. He, his at­tractive wife and their two small children captured the imagination of the nation. Slowly his poficies evolved into concrete legislative proposals. The New Frontier was here, and even un­disputed personal popularity was not able to protect Kennedy from the 
sharp lash of criticism that accom­panied some of the efforts of his ad­ministration. In the first few months of this administration the President sent wide-sweeping legislation to Congress concerning care for the aged, federal aid to education, a farm program and minimum wages, only to see his proposals experience severe defeats or secure narrow victories. The President's harsh education in executive political reality had be­gun. But yet these early months did produce proposals which excited widespread public support. The Peace Corps was established. The Alliance for Progress was announced and the first steps were taken in the field of civil rights with an enforcement of equal rights to employment in feder­ally contracted jobs. Kennedy began building up his prestige with our al­lies by impressing Prime Minister Macmillem at their first meeting late in March of 1961. But disaster lay just around the corner. 
Early on the morning of AprU 17, anti-Castro rebels landed on the swampy beaches of Cuba's Bay of Pigs. The ensuing fiasco is only too weU-known. The United States emerged from the affair looking like a ravenous bear trying to devour a helpless little 90-mile-long is­land. Anti-U.S. demonstrations were touched off throughout Europe and Latin America. Kennedy, as Eisen­hower before him in the U-2 incident, was forced to accept full responsi­bility before the whole world. Al­ready the youthful President had reached the low-water mark of his administration. 
Nevertheless, Kennedy continued to build his prestige abroad with a state visit in the spring of 1961. He con­vinced the elder statesmen de Gaulle and Khrushchev that he was a man who was determined to provide ef­fective leadership for the West. In other words, Kennedy succeeded in presenting himself to the world as a man to be reckoned with. 
This image proved to be extremely valuable in the politically hot sum­mer of 1961. For it was at this time that the Berlin crisis reached its height in moves calculated by Khrush­chev to test this new American Presi­dent. The USSR ordered a military buildup in Berlin and Khrushchev demanded that the Western Allies get out of BerUn or he would sign a separate peace treaty with East Ger­many. Replying a few days later, Kennedy declared that the Soviet ulti­matum was completely unacceptable and that the West would defend its position by force if necessary. The various political maneuvers continued throughout the summer and were only culminated by the building of the Berlin WaU on Nov. 19, 1961. Thus Khrushchev emerged the winner of round one. 
The first year was drawing to a close. It was a yeeir of training for Kennedy. It was a year in which the President learned the political re­alities and pressures of holding the nation's chief office. It was a year in which he suffered more setbacks than victories but, above all, it was a year which forged Kennedy into a President who was now so tempered as to face the years ahead with ex­perience and confidence. 
The year 1962 proved to be the most significant of Kennedy's tenure of office. During this year, the man's courage and determination were put to test. Three times during this year Kennedy exerted powers of his office 
The Scholastic 
seldom seen in peacetime, and all three times he made his antagonists change their course of action. 
In April, the steel industry, under the leadership of U.S. Steel, enacted a price increase averaging $6 a ton. The President responded quickly and decisively. Calling the price increase "a wholly unjustifiable and irresponsi­ble defiance of public interest," the angered President initiated antitrust proceedings and threatened to boycott the Big Steel companies. The Presi­dent viewed the situation as involv­ing "a tiny handful of steel executives whose pursuit of private power and profit exceeds their sense of public responsibility." Thus, by bringing all his powers into the fight and by mass­ing widespread favorable public opinion behind him, Kennedy suc­ceeded in forcing the industry to re­tract the increase. Although there were many who criticized his actions, the President was now recognized as a man who would back his convictions with every means at his ability. 
This new image of a powerful President was again tested in Sep­tember of 1962 by another segment of the American population—the South-em white segregationists. On Sep­tember 30, a young Negro, James Meredith, attempted to further the cause of civil rights by entering the University of Mississippi. The con­sequence of this entrance was to make the serene campus of that university the battleground on which the forces of segregation and integration clashed. Governor Ross Barnett challenged Kennedy to use his office as President as a means for furthering integra­tionist causes and to fulfill his execu­tive capacity in enforcing the law as interpreted by the Supreme Court in 1954. Barnett hoped the President would back down in the face of vio­lence and the very distinct possibility of losing many valuable Southern votes. But once again the President acted courageously and decisively. Saying that "Americans are free to disagree with the law, but not to dis­obey it," he instructed the Federal marshals to avoid violence but above all to insure the entrance of Meredith. 
He asked the students of Old Miss "to preserve both the law and the peace, so we may stand united as one people in our pledge to man's freedom." The result? By virtue of the President's determination, James Meredith en­tered the University and an impres­sive advance was made toward guar­anteeing equal rights for all American citizens. 
These extremely important domes­tic issues merely served as a prelude to the drama which was to be en-
November 26, 1963 
acted on the world stage in October. On the twenty-third of that month, a major confrontation of Soviet and American power took place over the Cuban issue. Mr. Kennedy addressed a television audience estimated to be over 50 million people the evening before. At this time he informed the American people that the Soviet 
Union had begun a missile buildup in Cuba which could have for its only purpose "to provide a nuclear strike capability against the Western hemi­sphere." Kennedy declared that the United States would not permit such a threat to U.S. security, and that this country demanded an immediate dis­mantling of the Soviet bases. To en­force his words, the President called for an immediate blockade of Cuba. The courage and the decisiveness that Kennedy had shown in domestic issues was now thrust forward for the world to see. Khrushchev, obviously taken aback by the President's bold course, proceeded to quickly dismantle his bases and to withdraw his mis­siles. These events marked the high-water mark of the Kennedy adminis­tration. By talking softly but carry­ing the big-stick of nuclear retalia­tion, by ordering a blockade but not sinking ships, he had forced the Soviet Union to withdraw the missiles it had placed in Cuba and thereby secured one of the greatest Western triumphs of the cold war. 
Kennedy carried his strong pres­tige into the year 1963. Early in that summer the President made a Euro­pean trip to demonstrate that the United States was ready to back its allies. The reception he received all over Europe was astounding. Mil­lions of Europeans turned out to give their sincere and enthusiastic tribute to the President of the United States and to acknowledge his leader­ship of the Western World. This was no longer a man who had to sheep­
ishly admit a major blimder in at­tacking a small Caribbean Island but rather a man who stood as a symbol of freedom the world over. 
It was also in the summer of 1963 that Kennedy took what he considered to be a major step in easing cold war tensions. After many years of ne­gotiating, the nuclear test ban treaty was signed in Moscow. The President considered the pact "not as a victory for either side but as a victory for the people of the world." 
Meanwhile, on the home front, Ken­nedy continued to display his determi­nation to destroy the image that the Negro is a second-rate citizen. This summer saw what was called the revolution of the American Negro. Kennedy, by means of legislation and, when necessary, by force, lent the backing of his office to the drive for equality. 
Thus, after a somewhat shaky start, Kennedy gradually evolved as a refreshingly dynamic president. No matter what one's political philoso­phies may be, it is impossible to deny that this man gave to his oflBce an aroma of courage, dignity and de­cisiveness. This was John F. Kennedy the President. 


JOHN F. KENNEDY AND NOTRE DAME 
By Jack Pope 

T
HE LATE PRESIDENT'S associations with the University of Notre Dame extend back to the Januaiy graduation exercises of 1950. The graduation Mass was celebrated Sun­day morning, January 29. by the Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., theft Executive Vice-Presi­dent of the University. At the com­mencement exercises that after­noon, Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree and then de­livered the commencement address. 
Four years later, when the Notre Dame Lay Advisory Council for the College of Liberal and Fine Arts was formed. Senator Kennedy became a Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, and General Curtis LeMay. 
His acceptance address reflected this difference. After modestly ques­tioning whether the choice of the senior class was truly "evidence of the outstanding judgment and wis­dom the University has tried to instill in four years," Senator Kennedy re­flected upon the appropriateness of dedicating the award to the first U.S. President. Facing the denunciations of his Congress and of his country­men, Washington approved the ex­tremely unpopular Jay treaty with England. "The patriot hero" had be­come "the American Caesar . . . the American King George" to citizens 

charter member. The members of the Council meet on campus twice a year for a series of talks with faculty and students of the University to get an idea of the mainstream of Notre Dame student life. The Council mem­bers then return to their particular sections of the country and to their particular professional fields, as Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters com­ments, "to become articulate repre­sentatives of Noti'e Dame through­out the country." 
Senator Kennedy's next association with the University, again to re­ceive an award, was in Februarj' of 1957, when at the Washington Day Exercises he became the fourth re­cipient of the Patriot of the Year Award. As the choice of the 1957 graduating class, he became the first 'politician to receive the award, the first three "patriots" having been J. 
still heady with the "victory" over England. Washington accepted per­sonal abuse rather than devastation of his nation in a futile war with a powei'ful Great Britain. Thus, for John Kennedy, Washington was a model of the true patriot who seeks the welfare of his nation despite the "slings and arrows" aimed at him even by his own countrymen. 
Senator Kennedy ui'ged the mem­bers of the senior class: "regardless of your chosen occupation, consider entering the field of politics at some stage ot your career," thus offering to return "the talents which societj'^ has helped to develop in you." Recall­ing that in the early days of the na­tion it was the most capable and best educated persons who took on the task of governing — the Washing-tons, the Jeffersons, the Websters, the Hamiltons, the Franklins — he asked the students to restoi'e the noble tra-
Thc Scholastic 

dition of the Congress, a body too often and too incorrectly seen as a conniving mob of manipulators and deceivers. 
It was not until 1960 that Kennedy returned to Notre Dame, and this time he came in force. It was the year for the student Mock Convention, and the Kennedy of political potency was there to watch. But not only to watch: the Convention began on April 8, and that same night the Senator from Massachusetts was at­tending a dinner in the new dining hall as part of a fund-raising cam­paign for Democratic Congressman John Brademas, 3rd district of In­diana. Also on his schedule were tours of the Studebaker-Packard plant and the Ball-Band Shoe factory, recep­tions in La Porte and Plymouth, and television appearances on WSBT-TV and WNDU-TV. 
In the Mock Convention itself Ken­nedy was the prominent contender. 
eventually being selected as the Dem­ocratic candidate on the fifth ballot with 934 votes. He received the Con­vention votes of New York and of every Western state. 
Analyses of the Convention varied, even within the SCHOL.^STIC itself. Student reporters saw it as a victory of political skill: 
Why and how did Kennedy win? This is perhaps the most basic ques­tion one could ask about the con­vention. There was too much de­termined opposition to him to label the nomination a case of "Cath­olics voting for a Catholic." There are many factors that were impor­tant, beginning with Kennedy's considerable popular support and including the superior pre-conven­tion work of his campus forces, the profusion of their campaign ma­terial, and the leadership of Senior 
November 26, 1963 
Class President Dick Corbett and Senior Class President-elect Pat Nee. 
An editorial on the Convention, how­ever, took a different view: 
the political contest must be judged a failure. It was neither a true in­dication of what will happen in Los Angeles this summer nor a true ex­pression of the political opinions of students on campus. . . . An over­whelming endorsement of a Cath­olic candidate at a Catholic school by Catholic students has little meaning . . . regional considera­tions were flagrantly ignored. Southern, Protestant agricultural Oklahoma is a case in point. It went, on all five ballots, to North­ern, Catholic, industrialist Senator John Fitzgerald Kennedy of Mas­sachusetts. 
Yet the Convention, to the amaze­ment of the editors and other stu­dents, did accurately refiect the po­litical infiuence of the Eastern Senator who went on to win not only the Democratic nomination but also the Presidency. 
On November 22, 1961, exactly two years before he died before an as­sassin's gunsight, John F. Kennedy received the highest and proudest honor Notre Dame can bestow: the Laetare Medal. The award, given each year to an outstanding Catholic lay­man, was presented to Mr. Kennedy by Father Hesburgh in tribute to the President's position as "a kind of landmark for the place of young men in our time, as a symbol of the new energy, vision and dedicated serxace of youth to the public welfare" — the very qualities Senator Kennedy had called for from Notre Dame stu­dents more than eleven years before. The deeper significance of that trib­ute was to come two years later, when John Kennedy met the full and tragic force of "the slings and arrows of politics." 
The President is dead. The world is stunned, as it is at the passing of all great men, and it also feels a little emptier. Notre Dame shares in the common grief, not because of her hon­ors to John Fitzgerald Kennedy—other schools have conferred degrees, other schools have awarded medals, other schools have thought of him as their own — but because of his reflection of what Christian education seeks to produce: selfless contribution of one's talents to the improvement of all mankind. 

T
HERE WAS REAL horror and disbelief that in our times, at our stage of civilization, that such a thing as the assassination of the President of the United States could take place. 
C
oiMPLETE INABILITY TO Comprehend the event was the nearly universal reaction of all who heard the news last Friday that President John Fitzgerald Kennedy had been struck down by an assassin's bullet in Dallas. This was an event that went beyond the mind's conception of the power of hatred. It was not merely a man who had been killed. The assassination was felt as a blow against our country, and the idea of a single man jeopardizing the United States, as an entity, as an idea, as an ideal, is almost beyond com­prehension. 
The initial shock is gone now, as the fear for the country recedes with the realization that the life of the nation wiH go on. But the memory of these first few hours should remain, so that we cannot forget the undeniable harm that has been done. The murder of a chief of state is the ultimate horror—before the desti-uction of the state itself—of a political body in tuiTnoil. The murder of our own chief of state is the most di'amatic symptom of the tension between the extremes of political beliefs in the United States in our time. The political disagreements have extended, along the same lines, into the social, intellectual, and even religious ideals of segments of the population. 
Consider the position of the men who have op­posed the President's stands on civil rights, govern­mental power, foreign policy. Consider those who have criticized his supposed betrayal of liberal ideals. Political criticism has lately been characterized by a bitterness that must now make every critic of tlie late President examine his soul to determine whether he had so used the right to free political criticism that he is liable to be judged guilty of propelling the hand that held the 7.65 Mausei\ 
That John F. Kennedy realized the perils of his life can be seen by the passage he chose as an epi­gi'aph to his book. Profiles in Courage. It was taken from Edmund Burke's eulogy of Charles James Fox for his attack on the tyranny of the East India Com­pany: "He well knows what snares are spread about his path, from personal animositj^ . . . and possiblj' from popular delusion. But he has put to hazard his ease, his security, his interest, his power, even his popularity .. . he is traduced and abused for his sup­posed motives." 
There are many who will say that Kennedy never showed the kind of political courage he praised in his book. But it is undeniable that in accepting the posi­tion of President of the United States he was placing himself in a position where his every act would be criticized, vilified, ridiculed by some political wing. He was placing himself in a position where his de­cisions and actions carried moi*e responsibility and possible consequence than any other man of our time. And in the end, of course, he did in fact die for those principles which motivated him and which propelled the country under his leadership. Perhaps the tribute that would have been most pleasing to John F. Ken­nedy would be the most obvious one: that he was a man of courage. 
"I keep hoping that it is some sort of joke—some big, horrible joke," was one comment. "It might be like that Mai'tian thing in the thii'ties," was one vain hope. But, regrettably, it is no joke; it is no hoax. Expression of such hopes could only be found in ex­treme despair and in the inability to i-espond to the tragedy and hori'or of the situation. 
The personal involvement that all felt illustrates the unique position that the President occupied in the hearts of all. From the grim silence that gripped the country to the voiced statement from a lawyer in Britain that "It was the worst thing that could have happened," it was brought home to all that the death of John Kennedy was much more than the death of a man; it was the death of the representative of the American people both to the nations of the world as the official spokesman of the United States, and to the citizens of our country as the representative of the spirit and tradition of the highest office in the land. 
Much of his political appeal, particularly among the youth of the land, came from the fact that he himself was so youthful. There was confidence, certainly borne out by his term of office, that he would not be subject to traditional and hidebound political ideals. His vigorous method of attack showed that this confidence would be justified. Kennedy brought to the nation's capital new ideas and an active many-faceted program. Not every statement or act pleased all, but rather often met with strong opposition and denunciation. Yet all observers of the national and international scene had to admit that Kennedy was doing something—^that he had given the office of President a vitality and willingness to act that had not been witnessed since the early (and also contro­versial) days of Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
It was this that appealed so much to the youth of America. Not content with the methods of the past, Kennedy was willing to accept the challenge of "de­fending democracy in an hour of national danger," with all the implications of the statement. His ad­ministration could be summarized as one of "doing" —from the Peace Corps and the physical fitness pro­gram to Medicare and federal aid of education. He was not afraid to meet the civil rights question head on. Here was a man of ideas and vitality—a man not afraid to try. 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy had accomplished much that was said to be impossible: "No one so young can be elected President." He was. 
"There isn't a Catholic in the country who can overcome prejudice and bigotry to become Presi­dent." He did. 
The man that did overcome supposed disadvan­tages of youth and Catholicism brought to the Presi­dency a dynamic image and personality that endeared him to the hearts of hundreds of millions around the world. Here was the man who, by his life, left the key with which to face his death: courage and con­fidence. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY —PATRIOT OF THE YEAR FEBRUARY, 1951 
ii&^ 
MC INERNY RALPH M PHILOSOPHY DEPT KOTRE DAME IND 

First-class travel Exotic foods Luxurious living 
with pay 
You were expecting maybe romance . . . glamour? Then forget about the Peace Corps. Glamorous it's not. You're going to be right in there with monotony, illiteracy and an army of bloodthirsty mosquitoes. Helping people who have asked for help. You're going to work 16 hours a day and sometimes some of the people won't even know what you're doing there in the first place. And you will see one fraction of the results you'd 
hoped for. But it's worth it when a kid in Nigeria understands what an alphabet is and some day will be 
able to use it. When a farmer in India gets chickens with some meat on them for a change. Or when Colombian villagers learn to work together for the first time—and this new spirit of unity builds a health center. The Peace Corps works in 48 countries—not changing the world dramatically, but not leaving it the same, either. It's tough to get into the Peace Corps. But we'll be glad to check you out. Just write to: The Peace Corps, Wasiiington, D.C., 20525. 
PEACE CORPS 'M 
•«^y.i.^.a.iay«<.».amy%,pii>a,».TO;^^ 

I. 

^ti§>. 

Get ready for the 
S J=-.'T^ 

holidays ahead 


-tt^ 

>/ '^^^ 
•3s^^ 

The new Formaivveave 
CELEBRITY 
TUXEDO 
Tailored by Palm Beach 
$55 
Enjoy goinor foi-mal more in )our own Uni\'crsity styled tuxedo by Palm Beach. Tailored in a ne^v com­fortable fall and \\-inter ^veight fabric that is practically x'.Tmklc-proof. Select yours no\->- and charge it the Campus Shop ^vay. 
^' 
^iLBG 



'Campus 
i^^^i ^•^4 
^^ 
MD, 
, ,'a 

For winter-weather wear . . . 
THE 40-iNCH PARKA 
$45 

Tailored in water repel­lent Reeve-Aire Tempest cloth with collar and body lining of 35% Verel - 65% Acrilan Yak pile. 4-pock­ets . . . hidden hood . . . side vents. A handsome coat for sports and casual wear. 
ii«^ "J^k mi 
f ^ •Z-y  m^. 5Si.>  
S^-M?/-*  
^•2^5  
4 ^ St  
•^i :  
#  
/  
IC  
f:-.  




GILBERT'S 
. l!>-i 
iiJEI  [^  1  ^P-fe \a.  hm  
JUNE  JULY  AUGUST  
NO  CARRYING CHARGE  
M  ARE YOU READY?  m^  
<M  Most University Men find the holidays put extra demands on their wardrobe . . . the dances, parties, going home, etc., create a need for some "extras." If vou feel the need for adding to your wardrobe now, the Campus Shop Way to charge is perfect for you . . . select and enjoy your holiday apparel now and pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of 1964. No sendee or carrying charges of anv kind for this convenience! Holidays ahead . . . stop in soon.  »f^^  i&  
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS  
^ILBERrS  

*^ *6 
Football RevU 

Assignment' design a car Ibrtomorrow... that could be built today! 
Result: Allegro, an experiment in advanced automotive ideas that are practical for the near future 
Allegro means "brisk and lively," which certainly describes Ford Motor Company's new dream car, a handsome fastback coupe. More than that. Allegro has unique functional features that could be adapted forfuture production cars. (This has already occurred in the case of retractable seat belts!) 
A major innovation is a cantilever-arm steering wheel with an electronic "memory." The steering wheel is mounted on an arm that extends from a center-mounted column. The wheel swings upward for easy exit, returns automatically to its former position at the touch of a button. Power adjustment enables it to be moved three inches fore and aft and five inches vertically. This, plus power-adjustable foot pedals, permits use of a fixed seat design for low overall height. 
Basically a two-seater in present form, Allegro has rear floor space that could be converted to carry two additional passengers. The car could be powered by either a V-4 made by Ford of Germany or by the domestic 144- or 170-cubic-inch Sixes. 
Allegro is one of a series of Ford-built dream cars which will be shown at the New York World's Fair to test consumer reaction to styling and mechani­cal innovations. This will help determine which of their forward-looking features are destined for the American Road—as further examples of Ford Motor Company's leadership in styling and engineering. 

^}rcC 
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE BNGII 

December 6, 1963 
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 

SALUTE: KEN HUCK 
It's been a busy first year for Wisconsin Telephone's Ken Huck (B.A., 1962). 
In less than a year's time, Ken has filled in as Business Office Supervisor in Janesville, and as Manager both there and in Watertown, Wisconsin. Besides managerial duties, he made studies on manager security checks and order-writing discrepancies, and compiled work volume forecasts for Janesville and Beloit. 
Few men in any field of work begin their careers with as much responsibility as Ken Huck has found at Wisconsin Telephone. His company is well aware that managerial muscle, if it is to grow, needs exercise. 
Ken Huck, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business. 
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
.i^.i^^4^s^^^^^=^="t^L;^ '^^:; 
.->»4fcwK::...v^ s» A-. :J.. J 
Football Revk 

NOTRE DAME MINIATURES A Special Gift ^Reserved for Special People 
"The Ideal Chrislmas GifT 
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
PRICE LIST—NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS —1963-64 
All rings are in durable 10K Gold 
Black Onyx $ 17.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00 All-diamond cluster $165.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00 
synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue 19.00 WEDDING BANDS Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular $ 8.00 No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour 9.00 Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular 11.00 No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any bufF top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tox — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
Ring Size For Measuring Finger 
34567891011 
ORDER yOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Welcome all 


NOTRE DAME MEN YOUR HEADQUARTERS 
for 



KEEPSAKE 

Diamond Rings 

FROM 

$50.00 to $1,000.00 

CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE 






fc*. 
JEWELJEL^ 

121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 
1964 COLLEGE BASKETBALL PREVIEW 
The spotlight is on All-America college baskethall in January SPORT. Read about the players who figure to star in college ball this season! Plus—don't miss the "exclusive" article, WHY PRO FOOTBALL PLAYERS RE­VOLT. Leam what's behind the bitterness that is festering in the pro football ranks? Who are the players involved? Why and how they get away irith it? It's only' one of the many startling articles in January SPORT, the maga­zine that keeps you apace of all events on the college and pro sports scene. Youll enjoy expert coverage, sharp analysis, in-depth profiles and action-packed 
photos... Read 
January 
Favorite magazine of the sports stars and the sports minded! 

NOW ON SALE! 
^s. K^ C3 r^ D R I rM C3 S 

For style Quality and Value 
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en­gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, re­flecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond .. . a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticu­lous modern cut. 
Authorized Keepsake Jew­elers may be listed in the Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from many beauti­ful styles, each with the name "Keepsake" in the ring and on the tag. 

HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Please send two new booltlets, "How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding" 
and "Choosing Your Diamond Rings," both for only 25tf. Also send special 
offer of beautiful 44 page Bride's Book. 
Name-

Address-City 
-Co.. -State-

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE 2. NEW YORK, 13202 
Football Revie 

PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE Contact Lens Specialist 


ICE SKATES 
features all types 
(Hockey & Figure) 
of musical instruments 

Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist &
GUITARS —$15.95 and up 

• SKI CLOTHING 
also EYES EXAMINED TENOR GUITARS, UKULELES OPnCAL BEPAIRS 

Reco Sporting Goods 
BANJOS, MELODICAS 

GLASSES FITTED 
423 So. Michigan Street 113 N. Main St. AT 9-4430 212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 Next to Oliver Hotel 

An Oxford education... 

For graduates or undergrads who prefer button-downs, here is the newest ARROW easy-care contribu­tion to your wardrobe... luxury Decton oxford with true University Fashion button-down collar. The classic button-down with a studied nonchalance of good taste that puts it in a class by itself. This educated oxford is practical, too ... boasting longer wear ia a blend of 65% Dacron* polyester > and 35% cotton and winning all honors in thefield of wash-and-wear. In long sleeves $6.95 
*DuPont T.M. for itt pdyeater fiber 

See this longer wearing 
Decton oxford with the 
Sussex button-down collar. 
One of the many styles in 
our complete Arrow collection. 






GILBERT'S 
December 6, 1963 
QaCinpis MocSUaon 
{Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!"
and "Barefoot Boy With Cheek") 
DECK THE HALLS 
The time has come to think of Christmas shopping, for the Yuletide will be upon us quicker than you can say Jack Robin­son. (Have you ever wondered, inciden­tal!}', about the origin of this interesting phrase "Quicker than you can saj"^ Jack Robinson"? Well sir, the original saying was FTench—"Plusvitequededire Jacques Robespierre." Jack Robinson is, as everj'­one knows, an Anglicization of Jacques Robespierre who was, as everj'one knows, the famous figure from the French Revo­lution who, as everj'one knows, got mur­dered in his bath bj' Danton, Murat, Caligula, and Al Capone. 
(The reason people started saj'ing "Quicker than you can say Jacques Robespierre"—or Jack Robinson, as he is called in English-speaking countries Hke England, the U.S., and Cleveland—is quite an interesting little storj'. It seems that Robes­pierre's wife, Georges Sand, got word of the plot to mur­der her husband in his bath. All she had to do to save his life was call his name and warn him. But, alas, quicker than she could saj' Jacques Robespierre, she received a and could not get her mouth unstuck in time to shout a warning. Robespierre, alas, was murdered quicker than you could say Jacques Robespierre—or Jack Robinson, as he is called in English-speaking countries. 
(There is, I am pleased to report, one small note of cheer in this grisly tale. Wlien Georges Sand got to Majorca, she did succeed in helping Chopin find a rhyme for "Warsaw" as everyone knows who has heard those haunting IJTICS: 
In the fair toion of Warsaw, Which Napoleon's horse saw. Si7iffingcocklesandmussels,alive,aliveo!) 
But I digress. 

We were speaking of Christmas gifts. What we all try to find at Christmas is, of course, unusual and distinctive gifts for our friends. May I suggest then a 
telegram from her old friend Frederic Chopin who was 
M6k y io ^ ^^^cdllBme 
down in Majorca setting IjTics to his immortal "WarsawConcerto." Chopin said he needed Georges Sand's help desperately because he could not find a rhjone for "Warsaw." Naturally, Georges could not refuse such as urgent request. 
(Well sir, off to Majorca went Georges, but before she left, she told her little daughter Walter that some bad men were coming to murder Daddy in his bath. She instructed Walter to shout Robes­pierre's name the moment the bad men arrived. But Walter, alas, had been sea­bathing that morning on the Ri\'iera, and she had come home with a big bag of salt water tafiy, and when the bad men arrived to murder Robespierre, Walter, alas, was chewing a wad of tafi^' carton of Marlboro Cigarettes? 
Wliat? You are astonished? You had not thought of Marlboros as unusual? You had regarded them as familiar, re­liable smokes whose excellence varied not one jot nor tittle from year to j^ear? 
True. All true. But all the same, Marlboros are unusual because everj' time you try one, it's like the first time. The flavor never palls, the filter never gets hackneyed, the soft pack is ever a new delight, and so is the Flip Top box. Each Marlboro is a fresh and pristine pleasure, and if you want all your friends to clap their hands and crj', "Yes, Vir­ginia, there is a Santa Claus!" you ^^^^ see that their stockings are filled with Marlboros on Christmas morn. 
© 1963 Max Sbulman 
The holiday season or any other season is the season to be 
jolly—if Marlboro is your brand. You'llfind Marlboros wher­
ever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states of the Union. You 
get a lot to like in Marlboro Country. 
?SjS35573?553!S!5S^^SS!sS^^^^^5^r^^?^^!S^^!5?« 
Plan now for 7964 
N.D. TOURS 
— 3 DAY — WISCONSIN TOUR 
N.D. vs. WISCONSIN 
Sept. 25-Sept. 27 

— 5 DAY­COLORADO TOUR 
N.D. vs. AIR FORCE ACADEMY Oct. 7-Oct. 12 

— 3 DAY ­PITTSBURGH TOUR 
N.D. vs. PinSBURGH Nov. 6 - Nov. 8 
— n DAY — CALIFORNIA TOUR 
N.D. vs. SO. CALIFORNIA CAlfFORNM VIA NEW ORIEANS 
Nov. 23 - Dec. 3 
FOR INFORMATION 
WKITC OR CALL 



REDDEN TRAVEL 
1671 Lincolnwoy East South Bend, Indiana AT 9-9259 
MCDONALD STUDIO 
Complete Porlrali Service 

CHRISTMAS SPECIAL 
One 8 X 10 Block & White Six Wallet Size 
Regular Value $14.50 NOW $9.50 
Choose from eight proofs; no extra sitting charge 116 W. Colfdx Ave. CE 2-2003 



EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED 
BROKEN LENSES DUPUCATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED 
"fast service" 

DR. M. MITTERMAYER 
optometrist 
228 S. MICHIGAN 
Football Revie 

mammmmm 
Vol. 105 No. 10 December 6, 1963 
editor-in-chief TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
associate editor REX LARDNER 
special contributors TOM BETTAG BILL CRAGG TOM DOTY DON DUNPHY TOM KISTNER JIM McKENNA SKIP RADEY JOE RYAN GARY SABATTE JOHN WHELAN FRANK ZmiLLE 
editorial assistant MARY MCCARTHY 
photography TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
business manager 
BRIAN BARNES 
faculty advisor FRANK O'MALLEY 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 






football 
CONTENTS 

And What of 1964? 13 The Irish, on offense . . . and defense 16 Individual Game Summaries 21-35 Wisconsin 21 Purdue 22 Southern California 23 UCLA 25 Stanford 27 Navy 28 Pittsburgh 29 Michigan State 32 Syracuse 35 
Faces of the Irish 24 College Sports Editors' All-America 31 A Man Who Loved Sports 33 On the Fringe 36 Prospects for 1964 38 The Irish in Action
 39 1964 Schedule
 43 Statistics
 44 Freshman Team
 50 

THE COVER 
The Football Review is a regular issue of the SCHO­
Notre Dame's single moment of glory for 1963 came 
LASTIC. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, 
in the upset of Southern California. Quarterback Frank 
Indiana, the SCHOLASTIC is accepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. Budka, the game's hero, sets his line. 
f^ W: 
4 41 

^  Jt:'  
-•jr  
.^^^  ^^g/ltjK^  
%..  
li'fl  hmii  
•#"^#~­ fe?:;  IJ  

7-i"'? 





And What of 1964? 
NOTRE DAME'S 1963 football sea­son has been, in many respects, unique: it has seen Notre Dame score a major upset and be beaten in a major upset; it has seen a game can­celled because of the tragic death of the President of the United States; it has been a season with clearly de­fined periods of hope, of confidence, and of utter despair. And, like all losing seasons, it has been a year of ifs, of games almost won, of unan­swered questions. What then, is the significance of this past season, and what are its implications for 1964? 
THE SEASON opener against Wis­consin seems an eternity ago, so often has its pattern been repeated. The sun was shining brightly, the temperature was in the mid-eighties, and Notre Dame fans had high hopes for the season ahead. Their confidence soon appeared justified: the Irish scored early on a 24-yard sprint by Jack Snow, and added two more points when Tom Goberville blocked a Badger punt and it rolled through the end zone for an automatic safety. Jim Kelly's five catches played a key role in Notre Dame's limited offense. The defensive unit—led by Captain Bob Lehmann, who had 14 tackles — clung to the slim lead, but Wisconsin scored twice — the second time with only 67 seconds left in the game — and won 13-9. Though they lost, the Irish hit hard, hustled, blocked and tackled well, and pursued enemy ball carriers with verve. Hope remained high for the Purdue game. 
Again, Notre Dame scored first, this time on a bomb from John Huarte to Kelly, but the extra-point try failed. Again the defense held, but Purdue scored a single touchdown — and extra point — and won 7-6. Half­back Ron Bliey was the game's of­fensive star, gaining 55 yards in ten carries; on Notre Dame's last, des­perate drive, he ripped off consecu­tive gains of 15, 11, 13, and five yards. 
At this point, as Chicago Siin-Timss columnist Dick Hackenberg pointed out, Notre Dame was "the best twice-beaten team in the country," and was primed for an upset of Southern Cal. 
And primed for an upset the Irish were. The Trojans were checked by a tough defense which held them to 42 yards rushing in the second half, and allowed them only 55 offensive plays to Notre Dame's 67. And they were surprised by Frank Budka, starting his first game of the season at quar­terback. Budka ran for 84 yards him­self, completed two of five passes — one a clutch 14-yarder to Kelly, and scored one touchdown. Tommy Mac­Donald scored the other for Notre Dame on an interception and a 62­yard return. BiU Pfeiffer, the roving linebacker, made 17 tackles for the Irish, and sophomore halfback Bill Wolski came into his own to give Budka the running support he needed. 
Coach Hugh Devore summed up Notre Dame sentiments: "If someone had asked me before the season which of our first three games we were least likely to win, I'd have had to say Southern Cal." The team, with a ma­jor upset and its first win behind it, found new confidence. 
This confidence was readily ap­parent as the Irish almost effortlessly demolished UCLA. Budka directed all four touchdown drives, passing to Kantor and Kelly for two scores, keep­ing for one, and handing off to Wol­ski for the other. He also completed seven of ten passes for 86 yards, and gave evidence of being the complete quarterback. Charlie O'Hara and Paul Costa, two halfbacks who hadn't even played previously, completed the de­molition: O'Hara gained 54 yards in just four carries, and Costa ran for 49 yards in seven attempts. 
It now appeared that the Southern Cal game had been the turning point of the season, that Notre Dame was on its way to a successful year. Cam­pus talk was of winning seven or eight games — or, among conservatives, at least of having a winning season. 
Then it happened. Had anyone asked Devore before the season which game Notre Dame had the best chance of winning, he would undoubtedly have said Stanford, and reasonably so. But Stanford had other ideas. The Indians played magnificently and, at the same time, the Irish gave their worst performance of the season. The combination was disastrous for Notre Dame, and the Irish left sunny Cali­fornia in a very un-sunny mood. This, in retrospect, was the real turning 
December 6, 1963 

point of the season, from which Notre Dame never recovered. 
Navy sunk the Irish a notch lower. Heisman Trophy winner Roger Stau­bach was pressured hard by the Notre Dame defense, and had one of his worst days. Still, taking advantage of such runners as Pat Donnelly and John Sai, he directed the Middies on five touchdown drives. That the Irish spent most of the afternoon on de­fense is reflected well by the fact that Bob Lehmann had 20 tackles; Jim Carroll, Tom Kostelnik, and John Atamian gave Lehmann good support. 
This was the beginning of the period of despair: there seemed to be hope for a recovery from the Stanford debacle, based on Notre Dame's pre­vious showings against USC and UCLA, but now many began to fear the worst. 
The Pittsburgh game did little to restore the confidence of either play­ers or fans. Notre Dame drew first blood, scoring on a one-yard plunge by Budka. But Paul Martha ran the ensuing kickoff back for a touch­down, and Pittsburgh dominated the rest of the game. Offensively, Jim Kelly made three difficult catches, one for a touchdown, to run his career total to 66; John Huarte completed five of eight passes for 71 yards; and BiU Wolski averaged seven yards per carry. Defensively, Lehmann and Pfeiffer were again the standouts, with 18 and 17 tackles. 
This game prompted Frank Leahy to remark that Notre Dame's players were out of shape, that they were no longer capable of playing a fuU hour of tough football. The Irish refuted Leahy's words with a magnificent per­formance against Michigan State. Notre Dame held the Spartans to 233 yards total offense — none passing — in comparison to State's 296-yard average; the Spartans began only two play series in Notre Dame territory, one after an interception and one after a long punt return. The defen­sive unit, led by Tom Goberville, John Meyer, Lehmann, Pfeiffer, and Mac­Donald, jealously guarded Notre Dame's 7-6 halftime lead, but the offense was unable to score again, and an 85-yard run by Sherman Lewis late in the fourth quarter gave State the game and plunged the Irish deeper into despair. 
Notre Dame's scheduled game with the State University of Iowa was can­celled, along with most of the coun­try's other major athletic events, as the nation mourned the death by as­sassination of President John Fitz­gerald Kennedy (see page 33). It was an event — and a weekend — which 
will be remembered by most Ameri­
cans far longer than any mere foot­
ball game. 

On Thanksgiving Day, the Irish 
had little to be thankful for — except 
that the season was over. The Syra­
cuse game itself might well have been 
a re-run of the Michigan State — or 
Wisconsin, or Purdue — game. Syra­
cuse scored early in the second quar­
ter, but the extra-point try was 
blocked; Notre Dame came back to 
score on a halfback pass from Frank 
Budka to Tommy MacDonald, and the 
Irish led 7-6 at the half. Again the 
defense played exceptionally, but 
again the offense was impotent. Syra­
cuse scored a last-minute touchdown, 
and won 14-7. It was a finale which, 
in every respect, typified the 1963 
season. 

ONE OF THE mysteries of Notre Dame football is how such a poor team can have so many outstand­ing players, for Notre Dame certainly had them in 1963. Very unmysterious­ly, however, many of the stars were defensive players. End Jim Kelly, chosen as a first-team Ail-American by the National Association of College Football Coaches, caught 18 passes this season for 264 yards and two touchdowns, and ended his career with 68 recep­tions and a bevy of records. Captain Bob Lehmann, a quiet and intense leader, finished the season with 95 tackles and was chosen by the coaches as third-team All-America guard; safetyman Tommy MacDonald, with fifteen interceptions, broke the career record (13) previously held by Johnny Lattner; and senior linebacker BiU Pfeiffer became the first Notre Dame player of recent seasons to break the 100-mark in tackles. 
The professional football drafts justified the confidence of many a Notre Dame fan. KeUy was picked on the second round of the National Foot­ball League draft, Frank Budka and Paul Costa on the fourth round, Jim Snowden on the fifth round, George Bednar on the eighth, MacDonald oi' the thirteenth, and Dave Humenik ov. the eighteenth. In addition, the Ameri can Football League drafted Lehmann. Clay Stephens, and John Simon. 
A number of underclassmen alsr played key roles for the Irish thi­season: backs Wolski and Kantor, anc linemen Nicola, Carroll, and Arring­ton. 
Football Revie^ 
WHY, with players like these, was Notre Dame able to win only two of nine games? Mere morteils will probably never know the read answer, but at least three reasons suggest themselves: 1) lack of depth in the line; 2) lack of a breakaway runner; and 3) lack of an all-around quarterback — who could run, pass, handle the ball, and select his plays intelligently. The preseason loss of tackles Dave Humenik and Gene Penman and guard Wayne Allen, and the later loss of guard Mike DiCarlo, necessitated con­siderable shifting of interior linemen. Although the result was a sound first line and several competent second-line personnel, Notre Dame often needed — but didn't have — two, or even three, solid lines. Though Joe Kantor and Bill Wolski are excellent, tough, hard-driving run­ners, neither has the broken-field speed to get away for the long gain. As a result, opponents' defenses were able to play quite conservatively against Notre Dame's rushing attack; had the Irish had an explosive runner of the caliber of Sherman Lewis — or even Angelo Dabiero or Don Hogan — the inside running would have been much easier for Kantor and Wolski. But Notre Dame's most desperate need was a complete quarterback, a field general who could consistently move the offense. John Huarte was able to throw, Sandy Bonvechio han­dled the ball well, and Frank Budka was excellent at running and play selection — and even, on occasion, at passing. But none of the three was ever able to do all at the same time or for any extended period. Even considering Notre Dame's in­adequacies at some key positions, however, the Irish were capable of far more than they accomplished. One reason for this, I believe, was an ap­palling waste of talent. Such profes­sional draftees as Paul Costa, Jim. Snowden, Clay Stephens, and John Simon played hardly at all. Frank Budka, if not being used as a quarter­back, could certainly have been used as a defensive back, a running back, or a flanker — but he ought not have been sitting on the bench; Charlie O'Hara, who averaged 6.3 yards for 15 carries, played considerably against UCLA and Stanford, and was never seen again. And even Jim Kelly, an All-American and a second-round professional draft choice, was ter­ribly under-played {e.g., eight minutes and 45 seconds against Michigan State). Another reason was Notre Dame's ultra-conservative attack: even Woody Hayes' Buckeyes seemed by compari­son to be playing radically wide-open football. The Irish disdained the pass except in obvious situations, ran their plays up the middle or off tackle al­most without exception, and ran with third down and long yardage. Even when opponents jammed their lines to stop this medieval offense, Notre Dame refused to pass for a needed first down or to loosen up the enemy defense. And, unfortunately, it is dif­ficult to play ball control football when one must punt on each fourth down. 
f ONTiNUED losing Can be only bad ^•^ — bad for Notre Dame as an in­stitution, bad for the players, the coaches, the alumni and students. Be­cause this is true, the University ad­ministration has open to it three pos­sible courses of action: 1) continue to play big time football, assuming that athletic excellence is indeed com­patible with academic excellence; 2) play a schedule restricted to schools of comparable academic standing; or 
3) rather than continue losing, and rather than further sully this school's once lustrous athletic reputation, dis­continue football entirely. 
The first alternative is, of course, preferable, for big-time football has been and should, if possible, continue to be a part of the Notre Dame tradi­tion. But if this University is to con­tinue in big time football, it must no longer delude itself that everything possible is being done (without violat­ing the University's principles) to promote winning football. 
Notre Dame must commit itself to a new football excellence, whether under Hugh Devore, an entirely new staff of assistants, or a new head coach. If Notre Dame is ever to break the shackles of mediocrity, it must take action now, before the 1964 foot­ball season. 
— TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 

December 6, 1963 
Ssimi 
Football Revic 


The Irish, on offense 
•V .--''l '-'Ad 

December 6, 1963 
Football Revic-> 


and defense 

December 6, 1963 
I'K \ 
•^ 

i?:i* 
V-

The coach wont let me use my 
REMweTON LEKTRONIC II during the foonau season 
It's impossible to look or feel ferocious after a REMINGTON LEKTRONIC II shave. 348 cutting edges of high-carbon steel (sharper and tougher than stainless steel) whisk whiskers off. 
Cutters are honed on an angle, so they slice whiskers off instead of "ploughing" them up. This makes your face feel and look friendly. 
There's the man-sized shaving head with 756 slots. It feeds more whiskers to the cutters faster. 
Then there are the REMINGTON Roller Combs. Right on top of the shaving head. Adjust to any skin or beard. Roll skin down. Pop whiskers up into cutters for a close, comfortable shave. 
There's the cordless feature. Sealed-in, re­chargeable energy cells let you shave anywhere without a plug. Forget to recharge? Plug it In and shave on the spot. With a cord, without a cord, with a REMINGTON LEKTRONIC II you're never without a close, comfortable shave. Get a REM­INGTON LEKTRONIC ll.. . right after football sea­son ends. 
REMINGTON LEKTRONIC II 
LEKTRONIC: Trademark, Sperry Rand Corp.. 
MCMINGTON ELECTRIC 5MAVEB, 8RI0CEP0RT 2, CONN, 
Football Review 




Close, but not quite 
N
OTRE DAME, INDIANA,, September 28—^Wisconsin's swift, erratic, and very offensive Badgers scored a last-minute touchdown to eke out a victory over a defensively tough but offensively ineffective Notre Dame team here this afternoon. A one-yard scoring plunge with just 67 seconds left to play gave last season's Big Ten champs a 14-9 edge over the Irish, playing their first game of 1963. 
Rushing yardage and first downs were nearly equal, and the outcome of the game balanced—^literally—on the fingertips of Badger end Jim Jones, whose one-handed catch of a crucial third-down pass kept alive Wisconsin's final drive. 
Notre Dame halfback Jack Snow scampered 24 yards to post Notre Dame's lone touchdown, and end Tom Goberville blocked a Wisconsin punt, which rolled through the Badgers' end zone for an automatic safety. 
During the first quarter, Notre Dame almost took up residence in Wisconsin territory. The Badgers took the opening kickoff and drove to the Irish 43 before they were forced to punt. There the drive stalled, and they punted dead on Notre Dame's 14. Fullback Pete Du­ranko and halfback Joe Farrell got ten yards in three plays, then quarterback Denny Szot threw to Jim Kelly for ten more, and a personal foul against Wisconsin put the ball on the Badger 45. 
Duranko gained five, and another pass to KeUy car­ried to the 24. Szot then pitched out to Snow, who skirted left end, got a good block, and outran four other tacklers for the score. John Huarte's conversion was good, and Notre Dame led, 7-0. 
Near the end of the first period, Wisconsin intercepted a Notre Dame pass on its 12-yard line, and failing to move elected to punt. The pass from center was off and Tom Goberville caught the baU with his elbow as it left the kicker's foot. The ball bounded ahead of frantic Badg­ers, and dribbled through the end zone for a safety. The Irish led 9-0 just 47 seconds into the second quarter. 
Wisconsin stormed back wt h left-hander Harold Brandt hitting Jones with a sideline pass, good for a 35-yard gain to the Notre Dame 21. Five plays later and with the baU on the five-yard line, Brandt again rifled a pass to Jones, who was slanting across the end zone, and the Irish lead was cut to 9-7. 
Wisconsin threatened twice in the third quarter. They were thwarted the first time by defensive halfback Tommy MacDonald's fine end-zone interception and the second by a twenty-yard field goal attempt which fell short, hit the crossbar, and fell back onto the playing field. 
A fine 30-yard run by Notre Dame fullback Joe Kantor was nullified by a Wisconsin interception, but the clock was running and victory seemed near. 
With 6:48 left in the game and the ball on their own twenty, Wisconsin began to move. Crashing over and through a tired but struggling Irish team, the Badgers pressed goalward. The 83-degree heat took its toll, and the greater Wisconsin line depth became evident as the Badg­ers pushed back the scrambling, stubborn Irish. Jones' catch put Wisconsin in scoring territory, and Ralph Kurek barreled over from the one. 
—JEVI MCKENNA 

December 6, 1963 
L
AFAYETTE, INDIANA, October 5 — The day began like any typical fall football Saturday. Warm weather had prevailed throughout the state during the past week, and the Indian summer atmosphere had enlivened spirits 
Closer 
at both Notre Dame and Purdue. 
At Lafayette, the pregame scene was one of mass fren­zy. Ross-Ade Stadium, set against the early Georgian architecture of the Purdue campus, was beginning to fill slowly. Outside in the parking lots, late-coming buses were churning up dust, and thousands were huddled, eat­ing and drinking, around parked cars. As usual, boastful small talk filled the air everywhere. 
For Notre Dame and Purdue partisans, the game was of equal importance: both teams were searching for their first win of the still-young season. As it turned out, it was a perfect football afternoon — perfect, however, for Purdue, as the Boilermakers regained their composure in the second half and downed Notre Dame, 7-6. 
Most distressing was not the fact that Notre Dame lost, but the way in which it lost. As in the Wisconsin game, Notre Dame fell prey to its opponent's fourth-quarter passing attack. Particularly disturbing also was the fact that Purdue was fielding its weakest team in years. In short, it was a game the Irish sfiould have won; Notre Dame won the battle of statistics but lost the war on the field as its tired and inexperienced line folded late in the game. 
The first quarter set the format for the entire contest. Time went quickly, and both teams went scoreless as the evenly matched defensive lines gave ground reluctantly. Penalties hampered both teams' drives, but the quarter, though scoreless, was far from dull. 
Purdue dominated the second quarter — but not the scoring. A Purdue drive was halted on the Notre Dame 13, as a field goal try went wide to the right. Then, with John Huarte quarterbacking the Irish, Notre Dame started to move. Huarte fiipped a short pass to Alan Loboy in the right fiat, and Loboy raced 39 yards to the Purdue 41. On the next play, Huarte dropped back and arched a 26-yard pass to Jim Kelly, who caught the ball on the 15 and darted into the end zone; it was Notre Dame's only tally. Huarte, who injured his ankle on the play, decided not to kick the PAT, and a two-point pass play failed. 
In the third period, neither team could muster any offensive momentum, and the quarter resembled a punting match between Notre Dame's Dan McGinn and Purdue's Ron DiGravio. 
At the outset of the fourth period, however, Purdue came to life. DiGravio rifled a 26-yard pass down the middle to Bob Hadrick, then threw to Hadrick for ten more. A defensive holding penalty against the Irish moved the ball to the Notre Dame 19, and after a penalty against Purdue, DiGravio hit Jim Morel on the ten. The Irish defense stymied three running plays, but on a fourth-and-seven play, DiGravio hit Hadrick in the end zone for the touchdown. Gary Hogan added the con­version and Purdue led, 7-6. 
Hugh Devore has said, "A dying man can lunge twice." At Purdue, Notre Dame made one last lunge towards the Purdue goal; it was, unfortunately, a futile one. With Huarte directing the attack and Ronnie Bliey rolling up yardage on end sweeps, Notre Dame advanced the ball to the Purdue 10. But the Boilermakers held, and a field- goal was blocked. . . . The game was Notre Dame's second defeat, and the future against such teams as us e seemed bleak. 
— GARY SABATTE 

"^"GTRE DAME, INDIANA^ October 12—October 12 is a 
•^^ day known for upsets. Almost 500 years ago Christo­pher Columbus, with the odds against him, discovered America. And today the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, 

Upset
16-point underdogs to the University of Southern Cali­
fornia, toppled the Trojans 17-14 in one of the major upsets of the football season. 
To the delight of a sun-bathed crowd of 60,000, Notre Dame crashed into the win column after two consecutive losses. It was the poised quarterbacking of Frank Budka, the power running of backs Bill Wolski and Joe Kantor, and the exceptional play of Notre Dame's defensive sec­ondary which enabled the Irish to gain their first win of 1963. 
Tommy MacDonald brought the crowd to its feet late in the first quarter. Picking off a Pete Beathard to Hal Bedsole pass, the Irish defensive ace raced 62 yards for Notre Dame's first score. Sophomore Ken Ivan added the extra point and gave the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
The Trojans immediately marched 74 yards in nine plays for the tying touchdown. Beathard alternately ran and passed, and capped the drive with a plunge from the three. The successful extra-point try tied the score. 
But with Bill Wolski leading the way, Notre Dame bounced right back to take the lead. The husky half­back returned the Trojan kickoff to the Irish 37, and then picked up 39 yards in two plays from scrimmage; Budka picked up two more yards, and Wolski went in for the score untouched. Notre Dame led, 14-7, but not for long. 
With 33 seconds left in the half, USC again tied the score. Beathard hit his AU-American end, Hal Bedsole, with a 43-yard strike to the Notre Dame 37; the same combination was good for 13 more yards. Fullback Mike Garrett bolted over for the score on a screen pass from Beathard. Half-time score: Notre Dame 14, Southern Cal 14. 
The third quarter was a scoreless defensive struggle. After a Notre Dame drive was blunted by a fumble, and after an exchange of punts, Beathard's passing got the Trojans moving again. USC completed two in a row and moved to the Notre Dame 12. Beathard again dropped back to throw, but was nailed by Norm Nicola and John Simon for a 14-yard loss. The next play was the turn­ing point of the game: Beathard rifled a pass goalward, but Bedsole dropped it in the end zone and the Irish gained possession on the 17 as the third quarter ended. 
The final 15 minutes were electrifying. After the Irish got one first down, Kantor smashed off left tackle for nine yards, and Budka rolled around left end for 11 more and another first down. Notre Dame advanced all the way to Southern Cal's 20; there, however, three line plunges netted only four yards. With fourth down and six yards to go. Ken Ivan came off the bench. His field goal from the 25 was barely inside the left upright, but it was good, and it gave the Irish three of the most im­portant points of this or any other season. The clock showed 6:28 remaining, and the score Notre Dame 17, Southern California 14. 
Notre Dame's defensive line and rover back Bill Pfeiffer combined to stop a Trojan penetration; keying on Beathard, Pfeiffer made 17 tackles, the most this sea­son for a Notre Dame player. Notre Dame regained con­trol of the ball, and banged for three more first downs as time ran out. 
The defeat was as bitter for the Trojans as the win was sweet for Notre Dame. Just as Christopher Columbus had upset the odds, so had the Irish; the Notre Dame victory may not occasion a national holiday, but Irish fans will remember it for a long, long time. 
—REX LARDNER 
December 6, 1963 

.:»••;-;'^-^-v"' «.^^-.-.rr'.-*->;v.v^c;^;:":':^:,L;j:j-L?.-:".-,^.-:'...^i 
Sjff^j0ifjl^j^smuj4illtiiK^ i_rn^i , 
of the Irish 
^mm^mi^ 
J i 
Football Review 

Two in a row 
•^OTRE DAME, INDIANA,, October 19—The Fighting Irish 
•'-^ of Notre Dame, in their first meeting ever with the University of California at Los Angeles, made Coach Bill Barnes' Bruins wish they had never set foot on the damp, historic turf of Notre Dame Stadium. In this second game of a triad with West Coast opponents, the Irish completely dominated play, even more so than the 27-12 score indicated. 
Touchdown drives in each quarter—engineered by senior quarterback Frank Budka—and rugged line play which held the Bruins to only 72 yards rushing, were the principal ingredients in Notre Dame's victory. 
The Irish drove 72 yards in ten plays the first time they had the ball, and scored on an 11-yard screen pass from Budka to fullback Joe Kantor. Ken Ivan kicked his first of three conversions, and Notre Dame led 7-0 midway through the first quarter. 
A poor UCLA punt early in the second period gave the Irish possession on the Bruins' 30-yard line. Six plays later halfback Bill Wolski took a pitchout from Budka, sprinted four yards around left end, and dove headlong into the end zone. Ivan's PAT attempt was good. 
Later in the second quarter, UCLA quarterback Larry Zeno—the heir to a job once held by such greats as Paul Cameron, Bob Davenport, Ronnie Knox, and Bill Kilmer —got the Bruins moving. Though their first drive was thwarted when rover Bill Pfeiffer's jarring tackle caused a fumble on the Notre Dame two-yard line, the Uclans befuddled the Irish secondary on the next series of downs, and scored on a 12-yard tackle-eligible pass play from Zeno to Mitchell Johnson. The touchdown came with but 38 seconds left in the first half; Zeno's extra-point try was wide, and Notre Dame left the field with a 14-6 advantage. 
The second half began with four penalties in the first three minutes, and action bogged down considerably. 
Eventually, however, the Irish were able to mount an­other attack: sparked by the running of Charlie O'Hara and the clutch pass catching of Jim Kelly, Notre Dame marched the 54 yards from its own 46 to UCLA's end zone in only six plays. Kelly's nifty fake left the two Bruin safetymen as little more than spectators to his 17-yard scoring catch. Ivan's kick failed, but the Irish led 20-6 with little more than a quarter to play. 
The tough defensive line—^led by Bob Lehmann, Norm Nicola, Jim CarroU, and Richard Arrington—continued to suppress the UCLA ground game and harass the Bruins' passers, and UCLA was again forced to punt. Notre Dame took over at the Uclans' 45. 
After two routine line plunges gained eight yards, Budka gave to O'Hara on an off-tackle slant. In a run very reminiscent of his scoring scamper in Pittsburgh two seasons ago, O'Hara broke through the line, caught the secondary bunched-up, and went outside and down the sideline for 33 yards. From the four, where O'Hara was run out of bounds, Budka capped the drive with an off-tackle dive into the end zone. Ivan's perfect kick was the twenty-seventh and last point of the afternoon for the Irish. 
UCLA's second touchdown culminated an 80-yard drive which was highlighted by a 42-yard pass play from quarterback Mike Haffner to AU-American end Mel Profit —who lived up to his advance billings by snaring seven passes for 104 yards. The touchdown pass, however, was a nine-yarder to Kurt Altenberg. The extra-point at­tempt again failed, and the Bruins finished the day with an even dozen points. 
Notre Dame's complete control of the game is best indicated by the fact that Coach Hugh Devore used four full teams—44 players—against the Bruins. 
—SKIP RADEY 

December 6, 1963 
f 
^i 
<^'­
•^m 
"-^, 
\^ 

*^-* ^ ••'—»^«^jfc.-**f^ 
"^^F^/> t i 
/• 

P
ALO ALTO^ CALIFORNIA^ October 26 — It was a bad day at Stanford's Red Rock for all the Irish, especially for Coach Hugh Devore, some 40 Notre Dame players, and the Four Horsemen (who were guests of the Stanford alumni). 
The Indians, 14-point underdogs to a team which only two weeks earlier upset the 1952 National Champions, stunned Notre Dame with two second half scores to win, 24-14. The combination of Dick Berg's pin-point passing and the superb running of Steve Thurlow accounted for the Indians' three touchdowns. Junior quarterback Berg completed four of six passes, while halfback Thurlow smashed for 75 yards in 15 carries. The latter figured in all three Stanford scores, rushing for two and passing for the third. 
Notre Dame exploded for the first touchdown of the game as the Devoremen took full advantage of an early Indian fumble. Alternate plunges by Joe Kantor and Bill Wolski produced four first downs before quarterback Frank Budka sneaked over from the one-yard line. Ken Ivan's conversion made the score Notre Dame 7, Stan­ford 0. 
Gary Pettigrew, a Stanford defensive back, got the home team back in the game when he intercepted a Budka aerial on the Indian 36. Coach John Ralston's offense proved its effectiveness at once. Alternately run­ning and passing, Berg showed the poise and finesse of Stanford's AU-American signal caller of 1959, John Brodie. It was the raw-boned Thurlow, however, who hit pay dirt for the Redmen. The lean Californian bellied deep to the left and then cut off tackle for four yards and six points. Southpaw kicker Broden Beck made it 
Safetyman Tommy BlacDonald makes his 13th 
interception, tying the recordMacDonald subsequently interto set a new mark.  setcepted  by Johnny tivo more  Lattner. passes  
December 6, 1963  

Ambushed 

7-7, and soon put Stanford ahead 10-7, with a 30-yard 
field goal. 
Helped by a 15-yard holding penalty, Notre Dame began its second and last touchdown march. Budka scampered around end for a first down and then hit Jim Kelly with a 12-yard pass for another. With first and ten on the Stanford 17, Budka pitched to Dave Pivec to give Notre Dame six more points and a 14-0 halftime lead. 
The next 30 minutes, however, were aU Berg, Thurlow, and Stanford. Thurlow could have done the job by him­self. Notre Dame was able to manage only four first downs to the Indians' 13 in the second half. The Irish were also outrushed in the final two quarters, 130 yards to 55. 
Halfback Dan Conway opened the second half by re­turning the Notre Dame kickoff 17 yards to the Stanford 
30. Berg cracked right guard for eight yards, Thurlow followed with eight, and after a four-yard gain, Thurlow picked up 15 yards with the aid of two good blocks. Glenn Myers plunged for four. Two plays later, Thurlow went over untouched from the five-yard line to give Stanford a 17-14 lead. 
To prove their last drive wasn't a fluke, Stanford marched for another score early in the fourth period. Again it was Thurlow who did the damage. With a fourth-and-goal at the seven, Thurlow swung to his own right and fired a hard pass to BUI Hundley, just within the end-zone sideline. This was the last score of the afternoon. 
Penalties cost the Irish a golden opportunity when the score was Stanford 17, Notre Dame 14. Inside Indian territory, the Irish were penalized once for roughness; after Notre Dame got a first down on the Stanford 35, another 15-yarder was marched off. Had it not been for these two penalties, plus two more for offsides, the Irish might yet have won. —RE X LARDNER 
z/ 

N
OTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 2—^The skies, cold and gray, were depressing. And so was the game for 59,362 homecoming spectators, who watched in horror as Navy scored four second-half touchdowns to defeat Notre Dame, 35-14. 
I Jolly Roger 
Though fullback Pat Donnelly scored two touchdowns and rushed for 127 yards in 14 carries — an average of nine yards per try — and though Gary Kellner also scored twice, it was quarterback Roger Staubach who detonated the Navy offense. 
Late in the first quarter Notre Dame had the ball, fourth down and two, on its own 30-yard line. Punter Dan McGinn, straining for a bad pass from center, was tackled for a 12-yard loss and Navy took over on the Irish 18. 
In trotted Staubach. A quick hand-off to his left half­back gained five yards; a good fake and another hand-off 
— to second team fullback Nick Markoff — brought the Middies to Notre Dame's five. A line plunge failed to gain, and Staubach rolled out around left end to the three as the quarter ended. On the opening play of the second quarter, Staubach rolled out to his right and the Notre Dame de­fenders, alert for the run, neglected right end Gary Kellner; Staubach hit him with a perfect end-zone pass. FYed Marlin converted. 
After an exchange of punts, the Irish took possession on their own 35. From there, Frank Budka flawlessly di­rected a drive which covered 65 yards in 15 plays. Relying on Paul Costa, Pete Duranko, and Joe Kantor, Notre Dame moved ponderously but relentlessly downfield, until Budka scored on a two-yard keep. 
Navy halfback John Sai returned the second-half open­ing kickoff back to the 30, and Staubach again jogged onto the field. Nine plays, three and one-half minutes, and three passes later Navy has its second touchdown. The key plays were Staubach to Donnelly passes. After a two-yard gain and an incomplete pass (the receiver slipped), Staubach pitched to Donnelly for a 30-ycird gain that car­ried aU the way to the Notre Dame 26. Several plays — and a Navy offside — later, Jolly Roger rifled a pass to Donnelly in the end zone. 
Late in the third period. Navy's Ed Orr ran a punt back to the Navy 44. Eight plays later the Middies scored. This time Donnelly did most of the work himself: he cov­ered 47 of the 56 yards to the goal line in five carries — including runs of 20 and 21 yards. John Sai scored from the two. 
Thirty seconds later Navy scored again. On Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage, Frank Budka was hit just as he released a screen pass intended for Bill Wolski. Kellner intercepted the pass on the dead run, and contin­ued to the end zone untouched. The conversion was suc­cessful, and Navy led 28-7 with twenty-two minutes left to play. 
Early in the final quarter Navy again had the ball, this time at Notre Dame's 41. Staubach roUed out, almost crossed the line of scrimmage, and stutter-stepped for what seemed like minutes; at almost the same instant he was swarmed under by a gang of Notre Dame tacklers; he pushed a basketball-like chest pass to Donnelly, skirting left end. No one laid a hand on Donnelly as he sprinted the 41 yards for the touchdown. 
Notre Dame scored last. With only minutes left, the Irish recovered a fumble at the Navy thirteen-yard line. They scored in two plays, the second a ten-yard smash by Joe Kantor, whose determined second effort carried him into the end zone. 
Notre Dame's two touchdowns were too little and too late, for Navy had Roger Staubach. —JOHN WHELAN 
Football Review 
i^ry 

Martha and Mazurek 
"^OTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 9 — Coach John 
•^^ Michelosen turned his Pittsburgh Panthers loose in Notre Dame Stadium today, and they proceeded to maul their way to a 27-7 victory before a slim crowd of some 41,000. The strong Pitt offense, led by Paul Martha and Fred Mazurek, thwarted any Irish hopes of winning the season's last home game: Notre Dame was outrushed 158 yards to 87, and gained only 80 yards passing to 130 for the Panthers. 
The loss made more painfully obvious Notre Dame's lack of a quarterback who could lead a sustained offensive effort. Frank Budka started the game, but by its end Bill Zloch, Sandy Bonvechio, and -John Huarte had aU seen action. None was really effective, although Huarte completed five of eight passes in the fourth quarter, and accounted for 71 of the 80 yards the Irish gained in the air. 
Notre Dame played Pittsburgh on even terms in the first half, and threatened from the very first series of downs. Jim Kelly fielded a short kickoff on the 39; runs by Wolski, Kantor, and Budka, plus a pass interference call, took the Irish to the Pitt nine, where the Panthers took over on downs. The Irish got the ball back quickly, however, when Tom Longo intercepted at the Pitt 38. 
Exceptional running by Bill Pfeiffer, a pass to Kelly, and a one-yard keep by Budka spelled touchdown for Notre Dame. Ken Ivan's kick was good, and the Irish led 7-0 with 2:10 left in the first period. 
That touchdown held up for only 13 seconds. Paul Martha took the ensuing kickoff on his eight-yard line, cut right to the sideline, and sped 92 yards down a perfectly executed blocking corridor. John Meyer blocked the kick, and Notre Dame held a slim 7-6 lead. 
The teams exchanged punts, and then with fourth down and ten, McGinn punted from the Notre Dame end zone to Eric Crabtree on the Pitt 30. Just when it 
December 6, 1963 
looked like Crabtree was trapped, he broke loose, down the sidelines to the Notre Dame 25 where he was finally shoved out of bounds by McGinn. From there Mazurek quickly engineered a touchdown, with Rick Leeson going over the one-yard line. Dave Pivec intercepted a Ma­zurek pass on the try for two points, and with 6:45 left in the half the score was Pittsburgh 12, Notre Dame 7. 
The Irish offense sputtered, but the defense — pri­marily because of interceptions by Pivec and Charlie O'Hara — was able to hold the Panthers till half time. 
Notre Dame was very much in the game until late in the third quarter, when Leeson picked off a pass intended for Kelly at the Irish 40. Even though a holding penalty on the play set them back to the 49, it took the Panthers only two plays to score. A pass to Martha for 40 yards set the stage for a 10-yard touchdown run by Mazurek. The crowd saw more Mazurek magic as the quarterback sprang from the holding position on a fake kick, and ran for an easy two points. With 1:58 left in the third period, the Irish found themselves trailing 20-7. 
The game's most spirited moment came for Notre Dame in the fourth quarter when Hugh Devore stormed out onto the field, amid cheers from the student body, to protest the ruling that a Huarte pass attempt was a fumble. His protest was to no avail, and the Irish received a 15-yard unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty. Pittsburgh took the ball on the Notre Dame 41, and a touchdown was only nine plays away. 
The passing of John Huarte sparked the strongest Irish drive since the first quarter, as Notre Dame marched from its 26 to Pittsburgh's 13 on two passes to Jack Snow and a 26-yard run by Wolski. But a ten-yard loss in a third and ten situation stalled the Irish attack, and Pitt took over on downs. The clock ran out with the score 27-7. 
— TOM BETTAG 

ifrfttwMiwigwMStgiCia'iateB 
;•!• 

2:^' 
•p* ''•'•'S 

" i^i^ 
?¥&?^^:F?^3I@ 
I'-'-'S^-T', 'y>. 
';y&'Vi 
• .«iSi£S«»»^', 
-.•^a^ 

' •'•»**<ii>-A -^ftiirji 
1963 College Sports Editors* All-America 
Player of the Year: Roger Staubach, Navy Coach of the Year: Pete Elliott, Illinois 
FIRST TEAM 
Vern Burke, Oregon State . . . ENDS Jim Kelly, Notre Dome 
Carl Eller, Minnesota . . . TACKLES Scott Appleton, Texas 
Bob Brown, Nebraska . . . GUARDS Dick Nowak, Army 
Dick Butkus, Illinois . . . CENTER 
Roger Staubach, Navy . . . BACKS Sherman Lewis, Michigan State Gale Sayers, Kansas Paul Martha, Pittsburgh 

T^ VERY year has its epithet, and for ^ college football, 1963 was the "Year of the Quarterback." Across the nation, leather filled the air, pass­ing records fell, and pro scouts sat in wide-eyed disbelief watching the dis­play of offensive fireworks which characterized the 1963 season. 
Every section, every conference, had its passing wizard. The Deep South continued to play its own mav­erick hell-for-leather type of football, and its super-quarterbacks were many; among the most prominent were Billy Lothridge of Georgia Tech, George Mira of Miami, Joe Namath of Alabama, and Larry Rakestraw of Georgia. 
The West contributed Pete Beat-hard of Southern California, Terry Isaacson of the Air Force Academy, and Craig Morton of California to the select group. And the Southwest had "play-genius" Don Trull — a twenty-one-year-old Baylor senior who called an astounding twenty audibles per game at the line of scrimmage. 
In a radical departure from the current trend, the Midwest continued to play comparatively conservative football. With the exception of Tom­my Myers of Northwestern, Ron Di-Gravio of Purdue, and George Bork of Northern Illinois, most quarter­backs were content to play grind-it­out, Woody Hayes football. 
In the East, however, the picture was different. At Pittsburgh, Chan­cellor Litchfield ordered Coach John Michelosen to open up the offense; with Fred Mazurek running the at­tack, the result — as Pitt publicist Beano Cook put it — was "the greatest reversal of form since Dublin elected a Jewish mayor." In the Atlantic Coast Conference, Maryland's Dick Shiner was the primary headache for oppos­ing linebackers and safetymen. But at the Naval Academy, the Middies 
SECOND TEAM 
Mel Profit, UCLA ENDS Larry Elkins, Baylor 
Roger Pillath, Wisconsin . TACKLES Ralph Neely, Oklahoma 
Rick Redman, Washington . GUARDS Bob Lehmann, Notre Dame 
Ken Bowman, Wisconsin . . CENTER 
Terry Isaacson, Air Force . . BACKS 
Mel Renfro, Oregon 
Billy Lothridge, Georgia Tech 
Rick Leeson, Pittsburgh 
possessed the greatest wizard of them all in Roger Thomas Staubach — Navy's "one man army," Heisman Trophy winner, and the 1963 College Sports Editors' Player of the Year. 
Some quarterbacks may have been better percentage passers in 1963, but none was a better scrambler. If any one of his talents was pre-eminent, it was Staubach's ability to elude on­rushing linemen (see cut), maneuver in the least-expected directions, and somehow pick out — and hit — his receivers in the defensive secondary. Oftentimes the result was peculiarly impressive: a thirty-six-yard pass netted a mere six yards. 
At the outset of the 1963 season, most remembered Roger Staubach as the spunky sophomore who single­handedly destroyed Army the year before. It was said that Staubach was a good quarterback, but not the cal­iber of Mira or Myers, who were tabbed as the best in preseason polls. His critics pointed to Navy's weak schedule, and added that spectacular efforts would be less regarded because the Naval Academy played lowly VMI and William and Mary. IVIichigan, Pittsburgh, and Notre Dame, they in­sisted, would offer the supreme tests for Jolly Roger. 
Happily for Staubach, and unhap­pily for the opposition, Roger con­cocted his own brand of backfield magic, and silenced the unbelievers as Navy torpedoed all its opponents ex­cept SMU. 
As Navy's fortunes rose, accolades mounted. VMI Coach John McKenna said: "Reviewing Navy's movies has been like watching horror films. There's just no way to stop Roger Staubach." At Ann Arbor, Bump Eliot — after watching Staubach run and pass for 307 yards against the Wolverines — could only mum­
THIRD TEAM 
Hal Bedsole, Southern Cal . . ENDS Bob Lacey, North Carolina 
Ken Kortas, Louisville . . . TACKLES Whaley Hall, Mississippi 
Wally Hilgenberg, Iowa . . GUARDS Damon Bame, Southern California 
Ken Lehmann, Xavier . . . CENTER 
Don Trull, Baylor BACKS George Mira, Miami (Florida) Pat Donnelly, Navy Jim Grisham, Oklahoma 
ble: "He's the greatest I've ever seen." 
When Navy met previously unde­feated Pitt at Annapolis in a battle for the Lambert Trophy, Staubach was faced with the most diflncult test of his career. It was a meeting of Atlantic giants: Pitt had Paul Martha and its heralded "razzle-dazzle"; Navy had Staubach and a quick but light line. Needless to say, the differ­ence was simply Roger Staubach; the Middies bagged the Panthers, 24-12, as Staubach completed 14 of 19 passes for 168 yards against a usually stingy Panther secondary. Excluding his per­formance against Army the previous year, it was perhaps Staubach's finest hour. 
It would appear that Staubach is a one-man show, yet he is not. As a quarterback, he is an intelligent sig­nal caller, and wisely takes advantage of such power runners as Johnny Sai and Pat Donnelly when a Navy drive is under way. Unlike others, notably Hal Bedsole of USC, Staubach at no time lets cockiness be a substitute for confidence. Off the field, he is a soft-spoken, introspective man, and a de­vout Catholic. 
Few realize it, but football is not Staubach's only forte. At Annapolis last year, he won a basketball letter and earned the distinction of holding Army's top sophomore eager to one field goal in the Army-Navy game. Staubach also won a baseball mono­gram; during the season, he hit .420 in 15 games, and in Eastern League play, he hit .481. 
For us at Notre Dame who watched Jolly Roger pick apart the Irish de­fenses, there was a special irony: here was a boy who wanted' to come to Notre Dame, but could not and hence did not. It's a sad thought indeed. 
—G.ARY SABATTE 

December 6, 1963 
Heartbreak 
"C* .^ST L.A.NSING, Michigan, November 16 — Notre Dame's 
•'--' still-fighting Irish played their finest defensive game of the season, but lost 12-7 to Michigan State on a game-breaking S5-yard run by Sherman Lewis •v^'ith only minutes to play. Lewis" electrifying run epitomized Notre Dame's frustration: victory, like Lewis, was always within reach but never firmly in hand. 
The Irish line was never sterner, as it smothered the battering thrusts of Roger Lopes and Dewey Lincoln, and 
— with a single exception — contained the speed of Lewis; Spartan backs were able to gain only 138 yards in 45 car­ries. Lewis" run excepted. State's passing attack proved completely futile, with one completion in eight attempts for no net \'ards. Tom Longo and Tommy i\'IacDonald each intercepted a wayward Spartan aerial; MacDonald's, a diving catch, was the fourteenth of his career, and set the all-time Notre Dame interception record. 
But Notre Dame's offense was never more impotent. Four times it failed to score from within the Michigan State 30-yard line, two of those times from within the 15. Not once did Notre Dame mount anything resembling a sustained drive. The Irish running backs, handicapped by the obvious lack of a passing attack, were fed like Chris­tians to Michigan State's lion-like line. 
Early in the first quarter. Dan McGinn's punt put the Spartans deep in their own territory, Sherman Lewis fum­bled, and George Bednar recovered for Notre Dame on the MSU 15. Fullback Joe Kantor drove up the middle for four yards, and then Sandy Bonvechio sent Denny Phillips on a sweep of right end. Phillips was sprung by Jim Car­roll's devastating block on Dewey Lincoln, and went into the end zone standing up. Ken Ivan's placement was good. 
On its next series from scrimmage, Michigan State netted nothing on three line plunges, and was forced to punt. The pass from centei' was bad, and Lou Bobich — pressured by Tom Gobenille — barely managed an eight-yard kick. Notre Dame gjuned possession on the State 38, but two plays later Bobich picked off a Bonvechio pass and returned it four yards to his own 27. 
MSU quarterback Dick Proebstle, after being thrown for a two-yard loss by Goberville, decided to throw. Mac­Donald intercepted and was tackled immediately at the Spartan 38-yard line. Four plays netted the Irish only seven yards, and Michigan State took over on downs. 
The Spartans scored their first touchdown after Dewey Lincoln returned McGinn's punt from the Notre Dame 40 to the 26. Linebacker Tom Kostelnik knocked down Proebstle's pass on the next play, but Lopes ran left end for ten yards and a first down. Lewis got 13 yards off left end, then three more at right end for the score. Michigan State chose to try a two-point conversion, but it failed and Notre Dame led 7-6 at the half. 
The third quarter found both teams running plays at the middle of their opponent's line; neither team was de­ceived by these medieval tactics, however, and as a result neither gained significant yardage. 
Notre Dame got an opportunity when Bobich was thrown for a loss while attempting to punt, and the Irish took over at the Spartans' 18. Three running plays gained only five yards against the jammed defenses, and Bon­vechio's fourth-and-five pass fell incomplete. 
Again the Irish threatened, this time when Tom Longo intercepted the pass of State's second-team quartei'back, Dave McCormick, at the MSU 11. Farrell gained one up the middle, Duranko lost three at right end, and Bonvechio carried for no gain on a rollout. Bonvechio's fourth-down pass, intended for Farrell, went incomplete and out of bounds — while Dave Pivec motioned frantically, alone in the end zone. 
One play later, Lewis turned right end, danced tan­talizingly away from Notre Dame tacklers in the second­ary, and raced 85 yards for the game-breaking touchdown. Gone with him was Notre Dame's chance to score a major upset. —JOHN WHELAN 
32 Football Review 

 ;tl 
^' 

^••.-^ 
T^EW YORK, NEW YORK, November 28—^The place seemed -'-^ strange, an unlikely setting for college football: Yankee Stadium's towering stands dwarfed the players, and all but blocked the struggling sun from the playing field. 
But the game seemed all too familiar, almost a capsule summary of the season: just as against Wisconsin, Pur­due, and Michigan State, the Irish scored an early touch­down to take the lead, and the defense struggled valiantly to preserve it, but the opponent's last-minute surge snatched victory from their grasp. 
Syracuse scored with less than three and a half min­utes left in the game, slamming the door on any Irish hopes for winning their third game of the long season. 
First-quarter play was dominated by Syracuse, and it came oh-so-close, but never scored. The first time they had the ball, the Orange burrowed deep into Irish territory, but a 16-yard field goal attempt by John Paglio was wide. Syracuse again mounted an attack on the Irish goal, and Wally Mahle's 32-yard naked reverse to the one-yard line made a score seem imminent. On the next play, Jim Nance barreled into a wall of green jerseys, fumbled, and Tom Longo pounced on the loose ball for Notre Dame. 
The Irish were able to get out of the hole, only to lose the ball at the 36 on a fumble. Four quick plays later, Mahle passed six yards to Billy Hunter for a touch­down. Dick Arrington blocked the extra point try, and with 12:51 remaining in the half, Syracuse led, 6-0. 
Irish offensive attempts were stymied once again, and Syracuse began a rapid movement toward Notre Dame's end zone. Five fast first downs took the ball 74 yards to the Irish five, but Notre Dame's back-to-the-wall defense held, and Paglio's short field goal attempt was blocked by 
All-A'merica7i  end  Jim  Kelly  leaps  high  above  a  Pitt  
defender  to make  the  66th  catch  of his  career.  
December 6, 1963  

AP Wircphoto 
Same old story 
Bob Lehmann. The Irish had the ball on their own 14 with 
4:15 in the half. 
At this time, Notre Dame began an 86-yard touchdown advance, out of the left-field sunlight into the famous shadows of the south stands. Nick Rassas swept right end for twenty; Jim Kelly snagged a Sandy Bonvechio pass for 15, and Tommy MacDonald scooted around left end to the Syracuse twenty. On the next play, Bonvechio pitched to halfback Frank Budka, who in turn rifled a touchdown pass to Tommy MacDonald, alone in the end zone. Ken Ivan's place-kick gave Notre Dame a 7-6 lead, and with 
1:00 left in the half, the moans of subway alumni turned to cheers. 
The third period saw the Irish offense smothered, and 
the Orange's frustrated. Bill Pfeiffer halted one Syracuse 
drive with an interception on the Notre Dame 43. Tommy 
MacDonald snuffed another drive with the fifteenth aerial 
steal of his career. The seesaw quarter ended, and with a 
repetition likely in the fourth, Notre Dame's 7-6 lead 
looked almost adequate. 
Early-quarter play saw the pattern continue. After 
the Irish fumbled on their own 42, a subsequent Syracuse 
march fizzled when Lehmann intercepted on the 31. It 
happened again, when Dick Bowman fumbled after racing 
33 yards to the Irish 25. Ken Maglicic corralled the ball 
on the twenty-two. 
Then came the inevitable. Starting on the Notre Dame 47 Rich King, in a third and three situation, passed 12 yards to Bowman on the Irish 35. Here King dropped back once again, and with Irish linemen swarming around him, arched a pass to Mike Koski who raced into the end zone. A pass to Bowman added two points, and ended the scor­ing at 14-7. John Huarte tried to accomplish the impos­sible with "the bomb," but the luck of the defense was not with the offense, and the clock ran out. 
— BILL CRAGG 

:>:> 
The Iri-th Guard, the band and cheerleaders, the leprechaun icith Shannon MiJcc. sporfi pub­licist Charlie Callahan—and such fans as Frank Leahy—are on the periphery of the yrkliron, a very important part of the pageantry that is Xotre Dame football. 



On the fringe 
n^, 
^•''a^ 
\
1" f.*--Z v,&is^v>J>; 
Football Rcviert' 

December 6, 1963 yj 
Prospects for sixty-four 
C"OR Coach Hugh Devore and his 
" staff, next season \viU bring ten major headaches: Wisconsin, Purdue, Air Force, UCLA, Stanford, Navy, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Iowa, and Southern Ccdifornia. 
Still, the over-aU outlook for a suc­cessful season is encouraging. The reasons for this optimism are three­fold: three of the teams on the '64 Irish schedule lose their top quarter­backs — Purdue (Ron DiGravio), Air Force (Terry Isaacson), and USC 
(Pete Beathard); the Irish wiU have experience and depth at ev^ery posi­tion but quarterback; and Don Hogan, the leading ground gsiiner in 1962, wiU return. 
Only five of Notre Dame's top 13 playei's wiU be missing: All-American end Jim Kelly, who holds most Notre Dame records for pass-receiving, wiU be the most sorely missed; the team leaders in tackles, All-American Bob Lehmann and Bill Pfeiffer, will also be significant losses. Defensive half­back Tommy MacDonald — holder of the Notre Dame record for intercep­tions — and end Tom Goberville wiU graduate, too. 
A significantly improved pair of ends. Jack Snow and Dave Pivec, will return for their senior year. Other ends who will be back include place­kicking specialist Ken Ivan, juniors Phil Sheridan and Tom Tedaga, and top freshman prospect Jim Lynch. 
Twelve experienced interior line­men should bolster Irish chances con­siderably. John Atamian, who showed much promise late in the season, leads the guards; other veterans are Ken Maglicic, Mike Wadsworth, and Tom SuUivan. Starting tackle Dick Arring­ton and guard-tackle Jim Carroll will be back, along with John Meyer, Jim Snowden, Herb Seymour, and Mike Webster. Alan Page, 6-5, 250-pound freshman, may also be a factor. 
Two experienced centers. Norm Nicola and Tom Kostelnik, will be seniors next fall. Both are proven linebackers, and better-than-adequate blockers. 
Lack of a consistently good quar­terback could again prevent Notre Dame from having a successful sea­son. John Huarte, Dan McGinn, Sandy Bonvechio, Bill Zloch, and Tom Longo all return, but none has significant game experience and none is a proven signal caUer. Huarte is the best pass­er, Longo and Zloch the outstanding runners. Any of the group could win the job. 
This season's leading rusher, Bill Wolski, heads a deep and experienced halfback corps. Paul Costa will also return, as may in-and-out (of school) Ron Bliey; Joe Farrell will be a sen­ior in 1964, and the return of a fuUy effective Don Hogan could make the halfback corps one of the country's best. Fullbacks Joe Kantor, Pete Duranko, and Alan Loboy will lend considerable authority to the Irish running attack. 
In the defensive secondary, Longo and FarreU wiU most likely replace top defenders MacDonald and Pfeif­fer, and Pete Duranko may fill in for graduating Denny Phillips. 
AU things considered, and with the possibility of 25 monogram winners returning, 1964 may be a happier year than this past one for Notre Dame fans, both students and alumni. 
—^REX LARDNER 
Football Review 

#7^M^ 
The Irish 

December 6, 1963 
action 

Football Review 
n 

Hathaway has a way with sport shirts here, the soft hand of flannel plaided in brilliant colors that rival the Autumn scene. 
Galey. «Lord 

1107 BROADWAY, NKW YORK 18. N. Y. 
A Division of Burlington Industries 
Keep informed about Notre Dame news and sports with The Scholastic. A year's subscription is only $5.00. Get your subscription now by send­ing your address and a check or money order to Circulation Manager, TJw Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
BLOCK BROS. 
Jewelers 

Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Students for over 40 Years. • Featuring Fine Diamonds — Watches — Jewelry and Giftware. • 
CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
For Unusual Gifts in 
•
 LUGGAGE 

•
 HANDBAGS 

•
 LEATHER GOODS 

•
 BRIEF CASES 




LONG, LEAN AND LANGUID... 
• GIFTS 

That's the Oshkosh Casual look! Form-fashioned for casual comfort and taper-tailored to put some action into your HANS/^INTMCN slack-time wardrobe. If you aspire after sharp attire, then get into Oshkosh Casuals ^^^^m mMJKT^^^^m m 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 

and join the action faction. ^J^^MMJ^^^J^^H 
Phone: CE 2-5881

CASUALS 
{congratulations to . . . 
1963 FIGHTING IRISH 
Gratefully and expectantly the Class of '66 salutes twenty-six fellow Sophomores. These, our classmates, will be instrumental in re-initiating the tangible, concrete Notre Dame spirit. 
Lawrence Allen  Larry Hribal  Larry Mauch  Dick Sauget  Tom Talaga  
Pete Andreotti  Ken Ivan  Dan McGinn  Eddie Seymour  Pete Thornton  
Dick Arrington  Alike Kracli  Bob Meeker  Herb Seymour  Arunas Vasys  
Tony Carey  Alan Loboy  Bob Merkle  Mike Sheehan  Mike Wadsworth  
"Peanuts" Comvay  Harry Long  Brian O'Shaughnessy  PhU Sheridan  Mike "Bear" Webster  
Pete Duranko  Tom Longo  Bob Papa  Tom Sullivan  Bill Wolski  
Neal Gardner  Bill Zloch  

CLASS OF 1966 
Football Review 
1964 SCHEDULE 

September 26—Wisconsin at Madison 
The Badgers broke Notre Dame's opening-day victory tradition this sea­son ; the Irish have a chance to avenge the loss. 
October 3—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Ron DiGravio and Gary Hogan finally graduate, but a big, well-rounded Purdue squad will carry the Black and Gold colors in one of the hittingest rivalries in football. 
October 10—^Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs 
The high-flying Falcons — minus star quarterback Terry Isaacson •— come into Irish sights for the first time in the Academy's brief history. 
October 17—UCLA at Notre Dame 

The Bruins will spend considerable time, while in hibernation, pondering their 27-12 licking by Notre Dame this past fall. They'll be big, and should be in an unpleasant mood. 
October 24—Stanford at Notre Dame 
The Indians scalped the Irish at Palo Alto, but will be in hostile ter­ritory next fall. 
October 31—Navy at Philadelphia 

Roger Staubach won the Heisman Trophy in 1963. 
November 7—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Rick Leeson, Paul Martha, and Larry Kuzneski all graduate, but Fred Mazurek returns at quarter­back. John Michelosen promises to show the Irish more wide-open foot­baU. 
Novembe r 14—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
First it was Saimes, then Lewis. vVho next? This was a rebuilding year for Duffy Daugherty, and his -964 Spartans should be great. 
November 21—Iowa at Notre Dame 

Jerry Burns' Hawkeyes play Notre 3ame for the last time until 1967. ^i s has been a fiercely fought series, -nd 1964 should be no exception. 
'November 28—Southern California at Los Angeles 
The Trojans will be most anxious 0 avenge their upset loss to Notre i-^ame of this past year. 
December 6, 1963 

HOLIDAY TRAVEL BARGAINS 
STUDENTS & FACULTY 
Ctrtetmasi 

I: 
Itltlllllllllltlllllllllllllllltllllllltllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllliiitiiliilli 
Go December 13-14-15; Return limit: Jan. 3 
• •lllltllllltlllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllKlllltlllMlllllllllllllllllllllllltllllilllllllllllilllllliiiiiliiiiiiiiiiil 
Via NEW YORK CENTRAL to 
New York $38.50 Rochester $24.00 Boston 43.90 BuflFalo 20.85 Albany 34.30 Cleveland 12.10 Syracuse 27.85 Toledo 7.15 
AND OTHER DESTINATIONS 
PURCHASE NOW 
NEW YORK 

CENTRAL 
SYSTEM 

Ticket Office, NYC Station, 8:00 A.M. to 11:30 P.M. 
43 
I­
Highlander Motor Lodge 
& Tony's Restaurant 
112 Bypass 
ELKHART, INDIANA * — 42 Rooms — • 

Phone: JAckson 3-4780 
>^IIWTURB0W 
VpPTOMITMST 
GLASSES REPAIRED 
"Bring in the Pieces" 
CONTACT LENSES 
INQUIRIES INVITED 
EYE EXAMINATION 
OUVEB HOTEL 207 W. Wasbiagtoa —Phone CE 4-5777 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
now offering 
Genius ^ g 
An mwofds^^, 
Exclusive 
Columbia 

music -" 
Special Products Record 
FOR ONLY $ 
with the purchase of any book from our new 
DOUBLEDAY Kff i 
For your reading pleasure—we have a wide variety of Double­
day books in every price range. And for your listening pleas­
ure, as a special bonus—this magnificent new album in which 
DYLAN THOMAS reads his own works 
JOHN GIELGUD reads Shakespeare 
LEONARD BERNSTEIN plays Copland 
...and DAVE BRUBECK—I'm in a Dancing Mood 
...and much more on this unique 12" 
Hi-R 33V& RPM record—for a limited time only 
COME IN TODAY... 
and build a nest egg of knowledge from our new Doubleday Personal Bookshelf. 
1963 FINAL STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS  
N.D. 
108 ..-  POINTS SCORED 

119 _ 72 33 14 1326 409 3.24 r)54 123 
yi 
.432 14 105 1980 49 
1861 38.0 
127 
_ FIRST DOWNS by Rushins
 - by Passing by Penalties
 YARDS RUSHING —- TIMES CARRIED ..._ _ Yards-pcr-try
 YARDS PASSING _ Passes .'Vtterapted Passes Completed ._
 Completion Percentage Pa.sses Inteicepted by Yards Int. Returned
 TOT.AL OFFENSE -...- PUNTS
 - Total Yards Average
 Yards Punts Returned 
18 ...: -.. FUMBLES ..._ 9 Ball Lost 
SCORING 
PLAYER  TD  FG  PAT  SAF 
Budka  ... 4  0  
Ivan  ... 0  12  
Kantor  0  
Kelly  0  
MacDonald .  0  
Wolski  0  
Phillips  _  1  0  
Pivec  .._  1  0  
Snow  .._  1  0  
Huarte  ._.  0  1  
TEAM  ....  0  0  
ND  TOTALS  .„. 15  13  
OPP.  TOTALS  23  18  

PLAYER 
Kelly 
Snow 
Pivec 
Farrcll 
Bliey Pfciffer Wolski Loboy MacDonald 
Kantor O'Hara Stephens Simon ..._ 
Rassas 
PLAYER 
McGinn 
Snoiv 
PLAYER 
MacDonald 
Wolski 
Bliey Farrell O'Hara 
Pfciffer — 
_ 
PASS RECEIVING 
 NO.  YARDS 
 18  264 
 6  82 
 6  76 
 3  33 
 3  31 
 3  15 
 3  11 
 2  35 
 2  34 
 2  24 
 2  18 
 2  10 
 1  12 
 1  9 

PUNTING 
 .4VG. 14.7 13.7 12.7 U.O 10.3 5.0 3.7 17.5 17.0 12.0
 9.0 5.0 12.0 9.0 
NO.  YARDS  
..„  43  1632  
._..  6  229  

PUNT RETURNS 
NO. YARDS 
8 56 6 31 1 16 1 13 1 10 
1 

 OPP.  159  150  90  48  12  1501  _... 405  3.71  1058  160  82  .513 9  79  2559  _... 38 
 1277  33.6  231  30  15 
 TP 
24 15 12 12 12 12 6 6 6 1 2 
108 159 
 TD 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 I 1 0 0 0 0 
AVG. 
38.0 
38.2 
AVG. 7.0 5.2 16.0 13.0 10.0 1.0 
Football Review 
RUSHING 

PLAYER  TC  YARDS  AVG.  
Kantor  88  330  3.8  
IVolski  70  320  4.6  
Blicy  30  115  3.8  
Budka  47  97  2.1  
OHara  15  94  6.3  
Duranko  ...­  26  93  3.6  
Costa  21  82  3.9  
Farrell  33  79  3.4  
Pfeiffer  20  59  3.0  
Rassas  8  33  4.2  
SnoH­ 3  26  8.7  
.MacDonald  6  20  3.3  
Phillips  8  20  2.5  
Loboy  .^.  5  14  2.8  
Bonvcchio  11  13  1.2  
Mittelhauser  1  1  1.0  
Simon  1  1  1.0  
Zloch  3  -3  
Szot  1  -5  
McGinn  1  -10  
Huartc  11  -53  

KICKOFF RETURNS 

PL/VYER NO. YARDS AVG. Wolski 16 379 23.7 MacDonald _ -8 146 18.3 Bliey 5 13! 26.2 Duranko 1 25 25.0 Kantor _ 1 11 11.0 Kelly 1 9 9.0 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

TACKLES: Pfeiffer 101; Lehmann 95; Xicola 70; Carroll 59; Gobcrville 49; MacDonald 47; .Arrington and Phillips 40; Meyer 32; Farrell 30; Bednar 29; Kostelnik 27; Pivec 22: Kelly and Snow 21; Longo and Maglicic 17; Simon 16; Atamian and Snowden 15; Wadsworth 10; Webster 8; Long and Stephens 7; Rakers 6; Sullivan 5; Budka, Etten and O'Hara 4; Ivan 3; Bliey, Burns, DiCarlo and Rassas 2; Duranko, Kantor, McGinn, Sheridan, Talaga and Wolski 1. 
PASSES BROKEN UP: Phillips 10; MacDonald 6; Pfeiffer 5; Farrell 3; Kelly and Kostelnik 2; Bliey, Carroll, Goberville, Kantor, Longo, Nicola, Pivec, Simon and Wolski 1, 
BLOCKED KICKS: Carroll. Gobenillc, Lehmann and Meyer 1. 
OPPONENTS' FUMBLES RECOVERED: Bednar 2; Bliey, Farrell, Goberville, Kostelnik, Lehmann, Longo, Maglicic. Pfeiffer, Pivec, Snow, Stephens, Webster and TE.AM 1. 
PASSES INTERCEPTED 

PLAYER  NO.  YARDS  TD  
MacDonald  5  63  1  
Longo  .  2  8  0  
Farrell  14  0  
Kelly  10  0  
Pfeiffer  4  0  
3  0  
Pivec  2  0  
Lehmann  1  0  
O'Hara  0  0  

PASSING 

Player Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Pet. Budka 41 22 3 251 4 .537 Huarte 42 20 0 243 1 .476 Szot 23 5 4 66 0 .217 Bonvechio 16 6 1 82 0 .375 McGinn 2 10 12 0 .500 Zloch 1 0 1 0 0 .000 
December 6, 1963 
Here's deodorant protection 
YOU CAN TRUST 
Old Spice Sticli Deodorant., .fastest, neatest way to all-day, every day protection! It's the man's deodorant pre­ferred by men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily...dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant — most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax. 
STICK 

?/ce 
DEODORANT 

S M U UXO M 
YES, WE HAVE YOU ST. MARrS GIRLS IN MIND 
This year The Scholastic is privileged to offer St. Mary's students a special reduced rate for subscriptions. So now for only $3.00, you can receive The Scholastic every week. Send your campus mailing address plus $3.00 (cash or check) to Circulation Manager, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Congratulations to . . . 
1963 FIGHTING IRISH 
John Atamian Frank Billy Ron Bliey Sandy Bonvechio Jim Brocke Jim Carroll Paul Costa 

arid especially 
A GREAT GROUP OF JUNIORS 
Vince Dennery John Huarte Tom Mittlehauser 
Tim Devine Joe Kantor Norm Nicola 
Dick Dupuis Tom Kostelnik Gene Penman 
Joe Farrell Ken Maglicic Dave Pivec 
Tom Harding Vince Mattera Jim Rakers 
Don Hogan John Meyer Nick Rassas 
CLASS OF 1965 
John Ruel John Seltzer Jack Snow Jim Snowden Denis Szot Bob Telfer Gerry Tubinis 

Sometimes some Notre Dame men do not dress with the traditional look from Michaels & Mann. If you always wear kilts or a band uniform, you do not need to shop at Michaels & Mann. The traditional man finds that an English tab corduroy jacket and beltless, plain-front cotton twill slacks are just the ticket for football games and other outdoor occasions. Since you may never, or at least very seldom, dress in kilts, you should acquire the traditional look at Michaels & Mann, one block south of the downtown bus stop. 
Your f.O. immediafelY opens o 6-month charge account 
Michaels & Mann 
inc. 
118 S. MICHIGAN STREET NEXT DOOR TO OFFICE ENGINEERS 
Football Review 
FRESHMAN TEAM 

"This year's squad is sound if not 
spectacular, and we feel that many 
of our team members will help the 
varsity during the next three sea­
sons." This is Coach George Sefcik's 
resume of the 1963 freshman football 
team. 

"Because the freshmen don't play 
actual games," he says, "it's hard to 
single out a first team." But, he 
adds, several freshman players will 
figure in varsity plans for 1964. 

Of the 49 squad members, nine are 
ends. Here the top prospects are Dan 
Gibbs (205, Oak Park, 111.), Don 
emitter (215, Pittsburgh), John Hor­
ney (195, Youngstown, Ohio), and 
Jim Lynch (210, Lima, Ohio). Lynch 
is the brother of this year's Navy 
football captain. 

Tackle Kevin Hardy of Oakland, 
the biggest man on the squad at 6-5 
and 260, is among the top tackle can­
didates; others are Harry Alexander 
(240, Wilmington, Del.), Tom Regner 
(250, Kenosha, Wis.), Vic Paternos­
tro (245, Lyndhurst, N.J.), and Alan 
Page (250, Canton, Ohio). Page has 
missed much of the season with a 
sprained ankle. 

The leading guards are Tim Gor­
man (215, Hoboken, N.J.), Ron 
Jeziorski (203, South Bend), Joe 
Marsico (210, River Forest, 111.), 
and Dick Swatland (225, Stamford, 
Conn.). 

The team's only three centers are 
John Lium (235, Bronx, N.Y.), Jim 
Kuritz (250, Milwaukee, Wis.), and 
Dave Magnotta (215, Albion, Mich.). 
There are five freshman quarter­backs. Tom Klump and Allen Sack are the tallest at 6-3, and both weigh 195; Klump is from Belleville, HI., Sack from Boothwyn, Pa. The other signal callers are Ron Cimala (200, Beckley, W. Va.), Jim Kelly (195, Rutherford, N.J.), and Hugh O'Mal­ley (178, South Bend). 
Defensive expert Larry Kuharich, son of the former Notre Dame coach, heads a rich halfback unit; he is 5-11, 175 and now lives in New York City. The top runners of the group are Dave Odlaug (190, St. Paul, Minn.), Tim Wengierski (190, River Forest, HI.), and Joe Azzaro (190, Pitts­burgh). 
Much-publicized Jim DiLullo, the 6-0, 195-pound star from Fenwick High School in Chicago, is among four freshman fuUbacks; Bob Hager­ty (240, Mingo Junction, Ohio), Larry Con jar (200, Harrisburg, Pa.), and Ernie Ray (235, Hobart, Ind.) are the others. 
The freshman team also includes: 
(Continued on page 50) 

A short walk is good for you. But when you really want to travel you can't beat Greyhound for going places at lowest cost. In fact Greyhound costs less thantrains, planes ordrivingyourself. For economy. GO GREYHOUND... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US. 
No other form of public transportation has fares so low. For example: 
^CHICAGO. ILL. One wo? $3.10 Round trip $ 5.60 1 TOLEDO. O. One way 5.25 Round trip 9.45 ICLEVELAND, O. One way 8.70 Round trip 15.70 PHILADELPHIA. PA... One way 23.30 Round trip 41.95 NEW YORK. N.Y. _ One way 26.30 Round trip 47.35 PITTSBURGH. PA One way 13.15 Round trip 23.70 ST. LOUIS, MO. - One way 9.45 Round trip 17.05 i BUFFALO. N.Y. One way 14.60 Round trip 26.30 BOSTON. MASS One way 29.85 Round trip 53.70 210 W. Monroe Street AT 7-6541 
BAGGAGE; You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Jf you prefer send Ijundry or extra bi ggage on ahead by Greyhound Package Express. It's there in hours and costs you less. 
GO GREYUQUND 
and leave the driving to US 
[congratulations to . . . 
1963 FIGHTING IRISH 
a^jd especially 
A FINE GROUP OF SENIORS 
Wayne Allen Bill Burns Tom Goberville Tom MacDonald Marty Olosky 
Jack Anton Mike DiCarlo Dave Humenik Tom Meagher Bill Pfeiffer 
Jack Barnard Nick Etten Jim Kelly Joe Monahan Dennis Phillips 
George Bednar John Geraghty Bob Lehmann Nick Jluller Jack Simon 
Frank Budka Clay Stephens 
VV/io gave their all through four rugged years 
SENIOR CLASS OF '64 
The Huddle 
Best Wishes to 1963 Notre Dame Football Squad 
. , . . STOP at the HUDDLE , , , , for that little snack between classes 
^^ Football Review 
PL^ JUST ARRIVED! 
a guaranteed gift 
Sure to please or we will exchange it for another from our stock. 
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry 

Notre Dame 
• 

J. Trethewey, Jeweler 
BOOK STORE 
Longines and Witfnauer Bulova — Elgin Hamilton 

106 N. Main St. CE 2-1756 
Freshman Team 
(Continued from "page ift) 

Ends — George Goeddeke (225, De­troit), John Hoffman (185, Manawa, Wis.), Bob Kennedy (198, Chicago), Tom Rhoads (210, Cincinnati), arid Ed Zewinski (220, Turners Falls, Mass.). 
Tackles — Al Karam (255, San An­tonio, Tex.), Ed Paukstis (220, Chi­cago), Fred Schnurr (240, Qeveland), Paul Seller (240, Algona, Iowa), and Jim Smyth (230, Norristown, Pa.). 
Guards — Leo CoUins (215, Fargo, N.D.), Tom Foghino (190, Three Rivers, Mich.), Angelo Schiralli (220, Gary, Ind.), and Chuck Vergara, (200, Stamford, Conn.). 
Halfbacks — Jim Garrison (165, New RocheUe, N.Y.), Dick Kinney (170, Plainfield, N.J.), Pat McCul­lough (185, Dubuque, la.), Jack Meyer (170, Cadillac, Mich.), and Bill Riley (185, Crystal Lake, Hi.). 
. Now that I'm a senior I have to start thinking about my future. Wll vou many me? 

Will vou be able to give me all tlie things I crave—like pizza pie and chow mein? 
3. Equitable—it's Equitable. 

It certainly is. It's also fair, square, and jusL But I would stiU like to know the name of the company. 
. We're not communicating. I keep telling you it's Equitable—and you keep asking what's the name. 
I keep agreeing your job sounds good. But you stubbornly refuse to tell me who you're going to work for. 
. Can it be you never listen to my words? Is it possible that what I thought was a real relationship was but a romantic fantasy? 
Is it conceivable that what 

I took to be a solid foundation 
was just a house of cards? 

That what I thought was a 
bright flame was merely an 
emotional flicker? 

2. I've lined up a terrific job. There's a choice of training programs, good starting salary, challenging work, and the chance to move up. That's Equitable. 
I agree—but what's the company's name? 
. I'd hate to lose you, but at least I'll still have my job with Equitable—The Equitable Life Assurance Societx' of the United States. 
Oh, The Equitable. 
Why didn't you say so? We'll have a June wedding. 
For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to WiUiam E. Blexdns, Employment Manager. 
The EQUnABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home OflBce: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N. Y. © 1963 
IDEAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMXS 
Twin Masazines! 
Disfincf . . . buf related 

CATHOLIC BOY CATHOLIC MISS 
Published af Notre Dame by fhe Holy Cross Fathers 

EACH MAGAZINE 
48 
pages chock full of sports, adventure, comics, stories, hobbies and Catholic inspiration. 
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.00 a year! 
And here are your handy subscription 
CATHOLIC BOY n 1 year, $3.00 • 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana n 3 years, $7.00 

Dear Fathers: Please send CATHOLIC BOY to: 

Name Street and Number City Zone State 
O Send Gift card to i-ead from: 
Your Name Your Address 

forms: 
CATHOLIC MISS n 1 year, $3.00 • 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
• 3 years, $7.00 Dear Fathers: 
Please send CATHOLIC MISS to: Name Street and Number City Zone State 
• Send Gift card to read from: 
Your Name Your Address 
r ••jT iK^i^^'^ 

y^^zi:'\t,'*: •~£^2&'''^""'"-^ ^'-''^ '^^'^•'^"l^"^'C'*^-2ifes-"^vi2!lxi^^ ^mMisM^M^si^^^m^m^^ss&^m 
SHOES BYJARMAN 

STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET 
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which GT&E has built its strength. Today, 6T&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America's ever-growing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, 6T&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation. 
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS ^/ 
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017 

GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states -General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories • General Telephone & Electronics International • General Telephone Directory Co. • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products 





