not re Dame Scbolastie 
• DIoCli• QVyA5l • SEMPER-VICTWRV/S- -VIVE- QV/ASI • CRAS • lvlORITV/R\/5 • 
•F-X-A­

VOL. XLI . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 7, 1807. No. 13. 
The Gridiron Squad. 
/^U R squad of victors, tried aud true, 
. - We hail with cheers and songs. They're worthj' of the Gold and Blue, They've fought the fight, and wpn it too, 
To them all praise belongs. 
.Well have they played the great old game; 
Extol them far and near, Thej are the men that bring us fame, These loyal sons of Notre 'Dame, 
So cheer them, fellows, cheer. 
We praise the scrubs, hurrah again, They take the scoff and jeer, 
• And patient stay behind; but when 
They're needed, then they are the men Who know not auA' fear. 
Then here's to Barry's .sturd\' .team, 
- No better state eleven; May bright successes on them beam. Then cheer them, fans; thcA' are a dream, 
• The Varsity, '07. GEORGE J. FIXJCIGAN, '10. 
Football under 1907 Rules. 
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, 'OS.. 

As predicted, by many coaches, football, as played during the past season, was most successful. The death knell of the old style has been sounded, and it will soon be a matter of history. Few colleges played that style this year, and those w^ho did have realized their folly, and no doubt they will rectify the evil in the future. 
The forward pass, the most radical change, was considerably altered this year. Last season if the ball would touch the ground on " any down, it was awarded to the opposing team where it fell. Now, however, 
if the ball touches the ground, on the first 
or second down,.instead of losing it, the 
offensive team loses fifteen yards, .but the 
ball still remains in its possession. On the 
third down, however, in case of failure,-.the. 
ball goes to the opposing team- where it 
went-into play. •.••. . 
This change seems to be an improvement. On account of it, more opportunity w:as given to the forward pass, and as a result-it was much in evidence. A .well-4rilled team could work this plav- most successfully,, and-the ground gained on a clever -inanip-­ulation of it was considerable. It also gave. xQ.Siia.j chances for trick plays, and. these, • in innumerable forms, were frequently used. 
Thatthe.ten-yard rule is a necessaiy adjunct,, to the new style, has been exemplified time and again. If-the distancewerenot.so great, a team would not resort to forward passes, quarter-back, • on-side kicks and long end runs, which, to say the least, are dangerous. 
Weight has ceased to be the predominating essential, speed has taken its place. In -the . words-of a well-known coach :."We want heavy, fast men, but we will sacrifice weight for speed." The game has so progressed that weight and strength, are=. no match. for science, speed and agility. However, this does not eliminate weight entirely, for if-a team sees that its opponents'-line.is. weak, old-style football-will be plajed, and efifectively played, despite the ten^-yard rule. So weight and speed are necessary. ••: 
The bulk of the work rests on the half­backs and ends. The latter must break through the opposing line to receive the forward pass. .In case of trick plays, they must act quickly, and must watch the ball 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
continually for on-side kicks; in case of a 
punt they must, as formerlj'^, be down the 
field with the ball. This requires speed and 
endurance. 
The half-back, as double-line defense is 
now used, must be prepared either to break 
the interference or to do the tackling. If the 
man who is to receive- the forward pass 
breaks through the ends, the backs must 
prevent him from touching the ball, and 
they must not touch it themselves unless 
they can surely secure it, otherwise they 
lose the distance the ball has advanced from 
where it w^as put into play. They must 
also be able to carry the ball in the open 
field, to receive and make the forward pass. 
The full-back, as previously, must be a line plunger. When a team ha*s third down and two or three yards to gain, it is not going to risk a pass or an end run, as;it ma3'^ be thrown back for a loss of five or ten yards.- The full-back is then called upon to make the required distance. He also forms interference for his backs, and backs up the ends rather than the line. 
The quarter-back has a position of large responsibility. He must be skilful at throw­ing the ball for the forward pass, quarter­back kicks arid runs, running back puts, and above all, w^hen the signal for the forward pass is called, to watch his. end and decide whether or not he should make the pass. 
As regards the line-men, the tackles should be almost as fast as the end, so as to assist in breaking the interference, and to tackle in the open field. He is also often called upon to carry the ball. The duties of the three centre-men have changed very little. Football with respect to these has remained about the same. 

Punting forms an important part of the game. This fact may be due to failures in end runs or forward passes; some teams have developed excellent punters whose kicks are difficult to handle. The quarter­back and on-side kick do not require more risk than most of the other plays, and as they are good ground-gainers, they are extensively .used. 
Drop and place kicks are also much in vogue. A team within forty yards of its opponents' goal generally tries a place or drop kick, if i t has a man of ability on 
the team. These kicks help to increase the 
total score, and some victories and defeats 
are traced directly to these plays. 
The addition of an official, the second 

umpire, has done much to eliminate rough 
play. The referee as usual watches the 
ball. The first umpire watches the line and 
all unnecessary roughness, and reports the 
same. The penalties which are inflicted are 
very^ severe, especially for slugging. The 
second umpire watches the plays in the 
open, especially hurdling and holding. On 
punts, he decides the possession of the ball. 
Everything, as far as possible, has been 
done to eliminate rough work and to base 
the game on head and team work. Although 
the evolution has been rapid, there are 
still some points which require attention. 
The many and serious injuries forecasted for open play failed to materialize. In fact, there have been fewer injuries this year than previously. The number of injuries to col­lege men and trained athletes w^ere indeed few. This may be accounted for by the fact that men have been more thoroughly coached in falling so as to break the fall as much as possible. 
For the public, the game is brilliant and spectacular, even to those who know very little of the inside workings of the game. What the public wants to see is the centre of attraction, and that is the ball. As most of the plays are open the public was satis­fied, especially as regards kicks and passes. 
On the whole, the season of 1907 was most successful. It has shown that debrutal­ized football has come up to expectations; it is a great advancement over the old-style game. It has fully convinced players and public that clean football can be played without losing any of the merits and enthusiasm of the old game. 
^ • » 
The Varsity "Subs." 
A WORD of praise to the Varsity "subs," To whom we owe esteem, Who get their knocks and awful rubs, But yet support the team. 
They've pep galore in every play, 
They push and plunge with might, 
And never do we hear them say] 
They're -wearied of-the fight.­
A. A., HEBERT, '11 

The Season's Schedule. 

On Thanksgiving Day the football season of 1907 passed into Notre Dame football history as one of the many successful years on the gridiron. Early in the fall things looked bad for the Varsity, and the pros­pects for a good team were anj^thing but bright. But Coach Barry and Captain Callicrate set to work with what, they had, and gradually a team was developed that Notre Dame may be proud of. Little bj- little the team improved; game after game they played stronger, until the first game of the Indiana championship was 
-plaj^ed in Indianapolis against Indiana. The most lo3^al Notre Dame rooter dared not do more than hope for victory; and when the Varsit^^ played last year's champions to a standstill, holding Indiana to a nothing to nothing score, the hard work of Conch Barry and Captain Callicrate, received its reward. The next big game came with Purdue, and for the first time in several years Notre Dame gave the . Boilermakers a good clean trouncing, winning the game by the score of 17 to 0. The season ended with St. A^incent's College of Chicago, and Notre Dame finished the year without having lost one game, tieing two and win­ning six, having scored a total of 137 points to 20. 
A large amount of credit for the showing made by the team this season must go to Coach Barry, for, as was said before, the material on hand w^hen the season.opened was about the poorest Notre Dame ever offered a football coach. Not that the men individually were incapable, for taken sep­arately the men were good; but instead of a division of weight, making a line and backfield possible, nearly every man on the squad was underweight for a lineman, and those who had the weight had had little or no experience. For the backfield there was a w^ealth of material, including such men as Captain Callicrate and Miller of last year's Varsity. Speaking of Miller reminds us of another display of Coach Barry's football sense. For when things were going from bad to worse about the middle of the season Barry took Miller from the backfield and put him in at centre, 
a position he had never played in his life; in fact he had never played any place but in the backfield. 
By nearly every critic in the State Miller was picked as an all-Indiana centre, which must prove but one thing: that in Coach Barry lay the brains that made Notre Dame's winning team a possibility. Then, too, the many chances that the team 
COACH THOMAS BARRY. 

underwent, especially in the line, displayed Barry's prowess. Munson was used at every position in the line during the past season. Starting him at centre, Barry was compelled to move him to guard when "Nick" Doyle left school. He w^ent from there to tackle, and finally landed on end, and on defense baclced up the line. Passing, it might be well to mention that in every position Munson put up a good game and was one of the most valuable men on the team. 
The . season, as a whole, was a grand success; it is to be regretted that the Indiana championship did not come to Notre Dame, but that it went to no one else is a consolation. Notre Dame has an equal claim to it with Indiana, arid is con­tent to wait for another year that they may tr\" again to land the championship at Notre Dame. 
Captain Callicrate proved to be worthy 
CAPTAIN CAXLICRATE. 
of the honor bestowed upon him when he was elected captain. A harder worker Notre Dame never liad, and a cleaner, better foot­ball play^er would be hard to find. The many duties connected with the captaincy of the team affected Callicrate's playing early in the season, but in the three big games he was back in form, and played the game that has made for him the reputation of the best half-back in tlie state of Indiana this season. Callicrate's work in the Purdue game was as-fine an exhibition of football playing as anyone might ask to see. With his team­mates his word was law, and every member of the team will remember the man who captained Notre Dame's football team in 1907 as a hard worker, a brilliant and clean football player. 

In commenting on the season. Coach, and Captain, let us not forget the scrubs. As the man behind the gun is the soldier, so it is with the scrubs; for it is the scrubs behind the team that malie a good team possible. Enough credit is never given the scrub, the man who day after day takes his bumps along with the regular, oftentimes ta;ljing more than the regular, for the star must be saved for the game. With nothing to win individually, as a regular, who has a chance for a reputation and a name, the scrub plods along through the season filling in ocay place he is asked to go, working as hard, training as hard and remaining as lo3'al as the best man. on the team; to him everj^ college man owes a debt, for without him no school can turn out a football team. And so we say to such men as Dugan, Beckman, Hague, Ditton, Diener, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Murphy, Dillon, Boyle, Sprenger and Keefe, 
it is because of such as you that Notre Dame had a winning football team, and every student at Notre Dame returns to A-ou sincere thanks and gratitude. 
Of this season's team we will lose but tvAO men, Capt. Callicrate and Munson. Both men graduate in June, and although both good men, w^hose loss will be keenly felt, the chances for next year's team are the brightest that we have had in years. Such men as Dugan, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Dillon, Boyle and a number of other men on the second team, will be Varsity caliber by next season, and Notre Dame should have one of the best teams in the history of the school. Following is a complete list of games played this year: 
Oct. 12—Notre Dame, 32; P. and S., 0. Oct. 19—Notre Dame, 23; Franklin, 0. Oct. 26—Notre Dame, 22; Olivet, 4. Nov. 2—-Notre Dame, 0; Indiana, 0. Nov. 9—Notre Dame, 22; Knox, 4. Nov. 15—Notre Dame, 0; Alumni, 0. Nov. 23—Notre Dame, 17; Purdue, 0. Nov. 28—Notre Dame, 21 ; St. Vincent's, 12. 
R. L. Bracken,. '08. 
The Moleskin Men. 
V/l/HEN we stop to sing the praises " Of the teams of Notre Dame, Let US not forget the ball team Which this year won us our fame. 
Let each team that ever struggles For the grand old Gold and Blue Know that Cali as a captain Had for equals very few. 
Big "Red" Miller in at centre, And at half-back doughtA^ "M?c," With O'Leary still to call on, " And "Bill"' Rv-an quarter-back; 
Paine and Burke to fill the guard holes,— Tackles, Donovan, Lynch, With our "Rosy " alwaj" ready. To assist them in a pinch; 
'Heinie" Burdick, Woods or Munson, Each an end-man quite supreme. Last of all—^the brilliant coaches Barry, Bracken—what a, team ! 
Don't forget our own "Doc" Berteling, Who Purdiie's defense did mar, Nor Al Mertes who for Miller, Pla3'ed centre like a stW. 
To the Indiana Champions, Let us then pour forth our best; To the.team that played such havoc With the others in the West. 
In the 3'ears to come, recalling Every year by its "eleven," We may well proclaim high praises For our heroes of '07. 
L. MORIARTY, '10. 
Varsity J907. 
CAPT. CALLICRATE (Half-Back). 

This was - Callicrate's last year on the tearn. To say he was one of the best, half­backs Notre Dame ever had w^ould only do him justice. He was picked by every critic in the State for a place on the all-Indiana team, and the man who attempts to fill his place next season has an awful task before him. Callicrate is of special value to the team, for he is a combination player; that is, a good man at the old game, where a man who can make two yards a down is a star, and at the new^ game where he is a brilliant player, a fast, open-field runner, a good dodger and always good for a couple of yards. His defensive work suffered in 
SCHOLASTIC 197 

the early part of the season as compared wnth his work of former years, but Cal­licrate's physical condition this season was by no means what it was in the past; moteover, the duties connected with the captaincy' affected his work somew^hat. Yet in the two big games he.wasback in form and played his usual star game. 
HARRY MILLER (Centre). This was Miller's second year and he earned the title of being the most valuable man on Notre Dame's team. Formerly a back, this year Miller was used at centre; he was given a place on tlie all-Indiana team.. The spirit which he showed when taken from the backfield and placed in the line was as fine an example of the proper Varsity spirit as one might ask. to see. His playing was brilliant; on offense he. w^orked at centre, and on defense was used to back up the line. The Varsity's showing against Indiana was in a large measure occasioned by Miller's work behind the line. He can play in the backfield and any position from one end of the line to the other. He has been elected as captain of the team for next season: 
FRANK MUNSON (End). Munson although having played but two years will graduate in June. His work this season was exceptionally good, and, like Miller, Munson played nearly every posi­tion on the team. He is the largest man on the squad and also one of the fastest. He has ability as a punter and a drbp­kicker, plays a strong tackle and a fast end. After Miller was injured Munson w^as used to back up the line, and in the Purdue game Was a star in that position. His great speed made him a most valuable man for the team, for with his speed and weight he could be called upon to do most any­thing. Munson w as also given a place on the all-Indiana team by several critics, and his work throughout the season was good. SAM DOLAN (Tackle, Guard). . Dolan was a regular last year and would undoubtedly have been one this season had it not been for the fact that his knee troubled him all season, and after the first game he was taken to the hospital -where he underwent an operation in hopes, of* being in shape for the big games; But not 
198 NOTRE DAME 
until the Purdue arame w-as he in anv kind of shape, and then was b3'- no means the Dolan of old. Coach Barrj'- used him in the last few games as a sub, and his w ork was all that could be asked for. Dolan will return for another year and with his bum knee in shape will without doubt prove to be one of the best linemen in the state. 

PAUL MCDONALD (Half-Back). This was McDonald's first 3^ear on the team. He -P as late in getting started, but once going he proved to be one of the most brilliant men Notre Dame ever had. His work in the three big games—Indiana, Pur­due and St. Vincent's—was wonderful. The last game of the season—St. Vincent's— would surely^ have been lost had it not been for McDonald. With but a few minutes to pla3'^ in the last half and the score 12 to 11 against the Varsit^^ McDonald tore off another long run for a touchdown and saved the day. for Notre Dame. On defense he was equall3'^ strong. He too was given a place on the all-Indiana team by several men. AIcDonald will return for another year. WILLIAM RYAN (Quarter). Ryan stepped into ex-Capt. Bracken's shoes with ease and played a star game at quarter throughout the season. He is a brilliant open-field runner, a dodger, a strong kicker, and ran the team with plent3'^ of speed. Ryan had one bad fault and that was running back when carrying the ball. Yet at times, as in the Purdue game, he w^ould get awa3'^ by this means, but as a whole, it proved unsuccessful. He was a sure man in the backfield, and his clever tackling saved the Varsity several times during the season. At handling punts Ryan w^as also a good man. 
- PETER O'LEARY (Full-Back). O'Leary w^as another first-year man. He w^as perhaps the best man on the team to give the man carrying the ball interference, and on defense w^as a tower of strength. He was always good for a first down when a couple of yards were needed to get it, and was a hard worker and a clean player. His best w^ork, perhaps, w^as his ability to help the runner, as he w^as always with the man with the ball, pulling him away from 
tacklefs; many of the long runs made by Capt. Callicrate aiid McDonald were possible 
SCHOLASTIC 

because  of  0'Lear3'-'s  assistance.  O'Leary  
will  return  another  year.  
• FAY  WOOD  (End).  
"Woody"  Tvas  injured  in  the  Indiana  
game  and  w-as  unable  to  finish  out  the  

season. Up to the time of his injurj'" he pla3-ed a star game at end and was a hard man to get b3'-, was fast and strong, and on going down on punts was a good- man and a hard tackier. Although Coach Barry did not use him to an3'- great extent as a punter, "Wood3^" was one of the best punters on the ^team, and earh'- in the season disp]a3'ed rare form in the kicking department. This was Wood's first 3'-ear on the team and he will return for another one. 
PAUL DONOYAN (Tackle.) 

When things were going bad and linemen at a premium Donovan was given a chance at tackle and filled the bill perfectly. On defense he was a strong man, and late in the season he was a star man on tackle-around pla3^s. In the last game of the 3^ear Donovan annexed man3'^ yards for the Varsit3'-, running with the ball from tackle position. This was his first year on the team, and judging from his w^ork this season, one ma3'- say that there will be things doing w^hen Donovan gets to work next season. He was a hard worker, a good trainer, and.in eveiy w-ay the right kind of a man to make a winning football team. 
ROBERT PAINE (Guard). "Possum" Paine was the "find" of the season. Last 3'-ear Paine played with Corby Hall, and when he came out for the Varsity this year neither Rob himself, nor anyone else, thought he would make the team. Coach Barry started to w^ork on him, and gave him a chance in the first game; it was then evident that Paine had the stufi" in him. Game by game he improved until the end of the season, and his work during the whole season was a good steady variet3''. He was always in the game, always work­ing, never hurt, and proved to be one of the best guards in the State. Paine will return another year and has great prospects for the future. HENRY BURDICK (End). At the end of last, season Burdick was slated for a regular position this 3'-ear, but 

throughout the early part of the season work, and. does, it well. Mertes can be 
his work w^as far below^ what he bad done used at guard or tackle and iii :either place 
the year before. But once he hit his gait can put up a.good game." \-\''-­
he came fast, and in the last few games : --• JOHN BERTELING (Ouafter)'. 
proved to-be a star end. -His work in the Bertelihg was,the smallest niail. on the Purdue game was brilliant; he was down team,", and yet j)roved to be one of the best. 

on everj^ punt like a demon, lackledhard His work at quarter, whenever -lie.w-as used, and sure, was in every plaj''. and .put up a was good. Although not as fast a man as wonderful defensive game. He.is a big man Rj^an, he proved, able at, any time, to take for an end and has. plenty of'speed which' Ryan^s place at quarter, and.run the team makes him a valuable man for the team. 

, equalh'as well. In the Purdue gan e young 
EDV^^ARD LYNCH (Tackle). 

" "Doc"'was, given his. first >chance in fast' Ly^nch Avas another man of the ..Donovan . company and rose to tlie occasion like a tj^pe: never sa3'-ing a word on the field, 
veteran. Itis.tobe regretted.that Berteling always working, never hurt, and, always' 
finishes school in June. .He has excellent judg­in the game. On defense he" was a strong 
'. ment and the rnakings of a,brilliant quarter-man, and on offense was-good "at making 

::backi:./ '. ^:-V. : .:•''/. 
holes for the backs and helping the runner. 

,'• .CLARENCE CRIPE (Half-Back). Two men could not be found, more alike 
Special mention, is. made ..of.- Cripe whose on a football field than • Donovan and'. 

broken.arm put him out of the. running Lynch. Both good hard., workers, clean' early ..in the season. Cripe was one of the players, unhurtable, and possessing wonder­most promising half-backs in the squad, and ful strength on defense. This was Lynch's had it not been for his broken arm would first year on the team, and he. too, will, undoubtedly have made good. He is a small return for another year. With such men man, but is. lightning fast, and as he will as Lynch and Donovan ' to start next be in school; next y^eai*, - barring accidents, season's line, there seems little tobe afraid of. 
he:will without doubt be numbered among CHESTER BURKE (Guard). • v. ­
the regulars. ' . .. • Burke did not come out until, late in; .the'; 
season and did. not get in shape-untif the' How We Won. > 
Purdue game. He w^as ^ent.-into the Indiana 
game,-and, while he lasted, :put-, up a star 
 was Franklin, that first•Tnet.;defeat; 

game, but once in condition he proved to be IT 
Theirs was riouglit;-^twenty-tliree \\'as our score; a good man both on offense and defense. He And then-Qlivet; done up so" neat,—'-; was fast and heady and was a'hard man.-*. TwentyTt\v6 we secured, .they iDutfourl 
•Next caine .Knox, who most, manfully-.fought, 
to keep from breaking through and spoiling . 
^.But.-.we made them look awfully glunf; 
plays L before they were: started.; :He was a, 
•li'w^as'just a: twice ,two that they. gbt,> 
strong man oh defense and was .always w^ith . 

While, our touclidowns -we're; four." and'-then some. the man carrying the ball, Jf the .play went 
Indiana, was- next on.; the -roll," - --/v • '•.{ .'--' 
through the line. :This ..was ;Btirkg's. first. 
A; .very good team,'I* declare,.' ,•.•. .^;r"'-^''; 
year on the teani and he too wiU^return ; 

They kept, us'from crossing-their^-goal ;>-=-, another year. With such'-men.jas Burkie, •-We-did'likewise with ; something itorspare. Lynch, Donovan and Paine to open>seasoh, Then ;at last- came the.-mighty -Piifdue,— . 
- Seventeen "was the. niark rfhat ;we. Bit-,; ­
we say again: Watch -us^next season.. 

While'.their scdre^ was'two" less"'-than-,two; ' ALBERT MERTES (Gehtre). Sn-- :< ". So .Iv'guessjn.6w..'tha-t;:N; D.' is/Mt. 
He was the lightest line/man ih the squad.-. 
That -n'as; gobdj;..tint. i-,must:. not; foi^et'; •

After , Miller's injury Meirtes \was put at 
-' The last game of all .th'iat we; played^ centre, and for the rest ;.6fcthe ^season :,St.- yincent/.took twelve, -Itwas^'a-lot -.'".^ remained there. He weighs but 159 pounds, . . When you- think:,of.vflie:rec6rd we'^made; 
But we took :them;to;camn like-the rest: 
and yet held his own with eyery man he • 
Twenty-drie.'wasXourj ehd'of "the ,^^ 

met this year. He is a hard and Twilling. 
JO.ur season, as''all.may.attest,,,- '5/ ;';'.."^ ' w^orker; like Lynch and-Donovan, he never ; = Has fra. recordlthat j won't; be Vbeatf Jsoon; opens his mouth, but plods along; does his 
BERT G. MARIS; 
Track'Outlook 

.. .prospects for-a. winning .track team, this season, are bright. In-the.first place a gopd coach~ has been secured and already he has aroused rnore interest in track athletics than;has been shown here in several years, Gartier-Field track has undergone several improvements. arid still more are to be made.:The old bicycle, track has been cut 
• away and a-good.i4 mile track will greet ^the men in the' rsprihg ,w.hen •.they""'-staH twork outside. .The straight'away is due to receive a. new coat. of. cinders- which, rare 
.- ouA the. way now- and everything • necessary will be ;dohe to havie a good.iield this year. As yet no:-indoor meets have^ been settled upon; but the chances are .that Indiana, Eurdue and Wabash will be taken on;, it is also likely that another triangular meet will be-puUed^ off.here thisvwinter, the last one 
SCHOLASTIC 
2m 

The fall handicap and cross-country club brought out several good inen, especially in "the dashes and distance runs. Tri SHafer and .Hebenstreit, Coach .Maris ^appears to have some "comers," and ..with" such men as Ryan, and^McDonald,of football;fame, a sprinter ..should, develop. ..Devine has perhaps shown the-best form ofthie half-nailers, and Roche; 'who won' the" cross-country-'run, appears to be the best^-tniler; but with such men as' Earish, Shea, Lvrich, Dean, O'Brien, Fuchs and Arnold on., hand, the distance runs ought to be,cared for. Murphy, Dolan, AVood, Burke,"Munsbn, Donovan and Mertes should do something in the weight events, and all things considered, Notre Daine should . have a strong" track team "this "year. ' 
Goach Maris revived the cross-country running this fall. Officers were" elected 'as follows: president,-J. Roth;' secretary and treasurer, Schafer; captain, L. Moriarty. Runs weretaken daily ran'girig all tH'eway frofn"4 toS" milesi'^arid' oriNov^^ 21 the final race w^as run.- Nearly a dozen.'men started, and despite the bad condition of the weather the meet: proved. t:o-= be "> very successful. Roach's "time of 28.minutes, "40 I'-S'^^'se^onds for a • five-inile course was-exceptionally good, and .the "work, of Shea, who'^pro^d to be the "dark-horse," showed class. 
: • •• -.R. L. BRACKENjt^OS;': 
-;•:.; 

^ • — 
,, .A. S.ong for the ,.yictprs. 
l:-ifiX'Jjr 
.LJURJRAH for the-.boys of Notre;I)a^e.!£.--<,f-/ .The linesmen, tried and, true,,­
j>!ufj-n
Like'a wall stood fimi. when the "line-bnck" came, F'or the'sake of the Gt.id"'and-'Blue. ^ - "^"^'-^ • 
Three cheers, for the backs wl^o Q^ip?>ly;<,sped.-,. 
Throusrh the hole in the hostile line, ^ . 
And eiagerly toward the goal-post "fled ' * ~' " 
'"At the signal's lilted'sign." •-*^' 

Give three times three for the daring run. The length of the frantic field; ^ " • .'-^•5­"" Remembering only it*-must be'won', ' -' '-'-•••'• 
being pronounced a grand success. • 

 That=.only-the <•
 weak willr-yield: ."iJ:- ^.•:"ri_* 

i^Leroy Keach.< is captain of the-team, and )the' old I members »who will report when .the seasonvopens are: Scales,'high hurdles, high and broad jump • Moriartyj pole vault 
/and .quarter, mile; McDonough, high and broad jump;. O'Leary, middle distance and weights; Gripe, middle distance and quarter mile; Wood,.weights, Roth, distance runner. 
Ah! many a team "that boasted high ' ' ' .'"' Has s6eri its' ibo'dtide TCfeir -"-•'" -"*•'­.'And the"victor's laurels proudly-lie~" .'-•-^ ".;-•.'" ^. .-.-On the^heads that know riot, fear. • . i,'.'," 
So cheer once riiore'for the Gold and Blue; "•' :; .5nd hail her with loud acclaim;H-: . •%,:.; O the.spirit she" breathes .is:ia,'/spirit;true,;v-;'i.;--" , .The spirit.of Notre ,Dame., f ..H; LEIIW|DGE. 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Publiihcd every SatutcUiy during Term Time at the 
Univenlty of Notre Dame. 
Entered as second-cSass matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Terms; $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre Dame. Indiana. 

Notre Dame, Indiaita, December 7f J907. 
Board of Editors. 
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, '08 WILLIAM LENNARTZ, '08 
FRANCIS T. MAHER, '08 TARNUM A. PARISH, '09 
IGNATroS E. MCNAMEE, '09 JAMES J. QUINLAN, '08 
JOSEPH J. BOYLE, '08 JAMES J. FLAHERTY, '08 
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, '08 ROBERT L. SALEY, '08 
FRANCIS X. CULL, '09 OTTO A. SCHMID, '09 


GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, '1 0 COE- A. MCKENNA, '1 0 

—^The stringency in the money market has probably helped to agitate the postal bank question. Postmaster-Gen. Postal Bank Meyer seems to be quite enthu­and siastic about establishing such Parcel Post a system. First of all, he thinks that foreigners would place more confidence in such banks than they do in private institutions. Hence a great part of the money that immigrants send abroad yearly,—amounting to about $70,000,000,— 
•would be kept in this country. Again, Mr. Meyer thinks that a system of postal banks would tend to prevent a stringency in the time of a financial crisis. At present, when such a crisis occurs, depositors withdraw their money from the banks, if they can, and put it away, thus depriving trade of money at a time when such money is most needed. If there were postal banks, it is quite probable that instead of stowing away their gold during a financial strin­gency these depositors would remove it to the postal savings bank. In that way, it would %^t back into the channels of trade. Another favorable feature about such a system is that it would tend to create habits of economy and thrift among the poorer classes. This alone is a stfong argument in favor of postal banks. 
Along with the introduction of postal 
SCHOLASTIC 

banks might come the parcel post system. At any rate, it is quite generally held that there ought to be a change made in the existing postal rates. For instance, one cent an ounce for merchandise seems a little too high and one cent a pound for periodicals seems too low. Some are of the opinion that the present limit of four pounds for parcels sent by mail ought to be increased to seven and some would advise making it fifteen. At the same time, the rate for merchandise ought to be changed from one cent an ounce to something like two or three cents a pound. In the German Empire there is a parcel post system, and a package up to the weight of about 101b can be sent to any part of the empire for twelve cents. Of course, in a country so much larger than Germany as ours is, the rate would neces­sarily have to be higher, but even then such a system would be much more convenient than the express companies for the trans­portation of small packages. Furthermore, rural districts and towns not reached'by express companies would be highly benefited by such a system. On the whole, we think that both the postal bank and parcel post are worthy of deliberate consideration. 
—Occasionally some of the less conserv­ative representatives of the American press go ranting in regard to the Self-government conduct of our government in toward the inhabitants of The Philippines, the Philippines. They would have immediate independence granted to the people of these islands. Concluding from the results of the elections not long since held in the islands for representatives to the first assembly con­stituted there, we would say that self-government and not independence is the problem that confronts the people of the Philippines. The elections evidenced, and very plainly, that. these people are not only incapable of governing themselves but do not seem really anxious to make the attempt. The number of qualified voters in the island, compared to the entire popula­tion, is proportionately small. About half of the entire number of qualified voters took advantage of the sufirage held out to them. This apathy may either be the 
result of discouragement, or may signify contentment with present conditions. "We would rather believe the latter, for the attitude of the Philippines in general does not seem to be an excited desire to estab­lish an immediate independent government. That they have proven themselves as ^-et incapable of self-government was shown in the choice of a leader to represent one of the main parties in the contest for the choice of members to the Assembl3^ There were two principal jjarties in the field,— the Progressives and the Nationalists. The latter, who advocated political indepen­dence, were in the majority. In their selec­tion of a leader good judgment and high ideals of citizenship were conspicuously lacking. Their head, Dr. Dominador Gomez, is a man whose career has not been such as would make him a worthy and fit leader for a people seeking independence. As president of a workingman's union he has been charged with a misappropriation of funds, and is under the ban of the law for contempt of court for having violated an order concerning the bankrupt union of which he is president. So far these people, otherwise enlightened and progressive, have shown themselves unable to cope with the problem of self-government, and are as j^et onlv" novices in the experiment. 
—The recent panic, w'hich has caused such an unsettled condition of affairs, is bound 
to leave effects which will be very  
The Panic  noticeable.  Besides  making  and  
and  losing fortunes  for  manj'-, it  has  
Its Effects.  opened  the  eyes  of  all;  many  
people  now  know  more  about  

the financial and banking conditions of our country than they would have known in a lifetime had not this panic occurred. The most important effect will be the passing of New York as the money centre of this country. Our Western bankers and capital­ists who had large sums of money invested and deposited in the East were unable to obtain any currency when they most needed it. The New York bankers, actuated by the motive of self-preservation, told the AVest to look out for itself, and turned a deaf ear to all calls for currency. 
No longer will western money go East so 

abundant^ to be invested or deposited. The average banker after having his eyes opened by the recent panic will deposit his money in institutions w^here he can get it when he needs it, even it the rate of interest is not so attractive. Former Secretary Shaw in a recent speech told the bankers of the East that "the confidence of the West in the East must be restored if conditions are to be as formerly." This may never be accom­plished ; if brought about, it will take con­siderable time. The natural result will be that western money w^ill stay in the West. For the reason that the largest part of our productive soil being located in the West, and on account of the natural resources of the West, the money centre is bound to move toward the West. 
—There are very few people w^ho really know the value of a good scrap-book. Easily kept, it often saves much The Value time and trouble for persons of a who are constantly in need of Scrap - Book. readj'^ reference concerning prob­
lems of recent origin. The daily papers and monthly magazines are contin­ually discussing problems of vital interest; their columns are filled with articles written b^'^ men who have devoted their lives to some special line of w^ork; science, art, literature and politics, each is treated in as masterly a manner as possible, and con­cerns the latest phase of the facts. These publications are the histories of to-day and the oracles of to-morrow, and their discus­sion of these many problems are well worthy of our attentio'n. To one who takes the trouble or interest to save such clippings as he mav- deem of future benefit, a well-kept scrap-book rarely fails to prove of value. How often our attention is called to an article of importance that has appeared in some recently published paper; how niany times we remember having read and appreciated a well-w^ritten editorial or an interesting review from one of our weekly periodicals, yet we have failed to save the paper, and its usefulness is lost. An article clipped from a newspaper or magazine and carefully filed or pasted in a scrap-book may become a source of information to which it would otherwise be difficult to refer. 
IM&.NAGER MCGANNON. 
T. Paul McGannon, w^ho for the past two years acted as assistant manager, took hold of the managerial reins this year, and although compelled by unfavor­able conditions to as­sume his duties at a most trying time, proved equal to the task 
and in every way competent for the position. 
Few persons realize how difficult is the posi­
tion of manager and how very considerable 
is the work connected with the office. 
Owing to several misunderstandings, Manager McGannon was forced to make out his football schedule in the fall. In a few weeks' time, however, he arranged a most satisfactory number of games. Since then he has been working on an eastern trip for the baseball team, and although incomplete as yet, the schedule is well under way and bids fair to be the best Notre Dame ever had. 
With the exception of Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, Notre Dame will meet the pick of the East in baseball this spring. The three mentioned schools w^ere unable to give him games as their schedule w^as already complete. All of the best teams in the West will be taken in, and with the chances favorable for a winning baseball team, this season will very likely be the year of years in Notre Dame's baseball history. Mr. McGannon graduated from the law school last June and will in all probability enter the law^ business next year. His work at Notre Dame, both as a student and in athletics before he finished school, marks him as the kind of alumni Notre Dame needs, and here's hoping for more McGannons. 
ROBERT BRACKEN (Assistant Coach). 
"Peggy" Bracken is a man eminently fitted for the position of assistant coach, w^hich he held this year. He is a man adapted by nature for the present open style of play; he thoroughly understands Coach Barry's methods, having served under him as captain last year; he is every 
inch a Notre Dame man with the best 
interests of Notre Dame at heart. These 
three things, together with the fact that 
whatever "Peggy" does is well done, which 
is the greatest compliment that any man 
can be paid, have made him a valued man 
in coaching the 1907 team. 
Bracken, who in his football career has played about every position back of the line, spent considerable of his time this fall in teaching the backfield men the fine points of the game. For the rest of the time he had complete charge of the "scrubs," and, much to his credit, he turned out, from new material, a second team which gave the Varsity many a hard tussle in scrimmage. And with Bracken, coaching was not all theory. Repeatedly he lined up with his proteges and willingly took the same hard bumps as his men. A thing like this goes far toward making a coach dear to his men. 

In the 0 to 0 Varsity-Alumni game. Bracken w^as at quarter-back for the "old-timers," and although not in condition and greatly handicapped by a slippery field, was one of the stars of the game, and several times showed flashes of his 1906 form which won him a unanimous place on the all-Indiana team. Bracken, who graduates this year, has made 1907 a glorious finish to a stellar career on the gridiron. 
^:^^^h^\\ Pro«.nf>rt«, J°'° ^^ *^^^ ^'^ ^^^ spring training trip. 
South Bend Central League team wiU.m . 
all probability train here again this season,. 
When Coach Curtis issues the first call and will play the usual practice games with' for Varsity baseball players, the chances are Notre Dame. Manager McGannon, although that there will be so many men on hand ^ot ready at present to announce the base-. that the coach will have to make a "weed-^^\\ schedule, has arranged one of the best ing" before they even go out. Notre Dame schedules Notre Dame ever had. Not only, never had so much good baseball material ^as he taken on every good team in, the on hand as she has this year. There are ^ggt but has arranged games with .the enough good baseball players in school best in the East, and this year the team will to turn out two or three teams. Of last j^ake the long delayed eastern trip. Unfor­season's team, Captain Waldorf, Curtis, tunately he could not get games with;, Perce, Kuepping, Boyle, and Farabaugh will Harvard or Yale, but with nearly, every.-, be out of the game, all good men and men ^ther eastern team of any note games have, who will be missed; but for each man's y^^oxi arranged. 
place there will be at least two men trying ^^^ to land the position. There will be the . , . ^- xj x following old players with us again this season: Brogan, third base; Bonham, left field; McKee, centre; Dubuc, general all- NOTRE DAME, 21; ST. VINCENT'S, 12../; around star, pitcher, pinch-hitter and out- On Thanksgiving Day the Varsity played fielder; "Dreams" Scanlon, pitcher; Ray and defeated St. Vincent's College team of Scanlon, whose injury early in the season Chicago, by the score of 21 to. 12. Without.. last year kept him out of condition through- attempting to detract any fi-om St. Vincent's out the season, and "Jimmie" Cook, catcher, team, in justice to the Varsity it must be 
Last season the Varsity was an excep- said that they by no means put up the tionally strong combination of baseball game against the Chicago college that, players, and there is any number of men in they are capable of playing, and although/ reserve who were compelled to be satisfied St. Vincent's has a good bunch of men, the with a place on the halj teams last season score should have been about 21 to 0, had. that could have very likely made almost any the Varsity shown the class to which they team in the West. Such men as Centlivre, belong. As it was, both of St. Vincent's Shafer, Fish, Scanlon, Burke, Boyle, Kelly, scores were the result of fumbles, and neither Molony, Daniels, Dodge, Philips, and a score was scored by straight football. Ryan for of others, are all of Varsity caliber and wiU the first time this season dropped a punt . undoubtedly make the competition close for in the backfield, and Captain CaUicrate .was . a place on the team this season. guilty of fumbling on an end run. During 
Last year's star backstop, Harry Curtis, the first half of the game Notre Dame.played has been engaged to be Coach. His reputa- like a lot of green men learning the game.',_ tion is so well known that it is but a waste They v\rould show^ form for about tvyo plays . of time to attempt saying anything more and then would all run loose. Once they about him. He was without doubt the got started, as they did in the,.last few, best college catcher playing baseball last minutes of the game, there was nothing season, and has now landed with the New much to it but Notre Dame. The first half , York Giants. He will remain with our team ended 6 to 6, and there were a few minutes throughout the season, as he graduates in the second half when St. Vincent's led from the law school in June and will not by one point and the Notre Dame rooters join New York until after school closes, looked foolish. But it was only for a 
A. bench man is w^hat Notre Dame has moment, as McDonald got busy again and. needed for some time. Formerly some tore around the end for seventy-five yards "big leaguer" was engaged to coach the and a touchdown. On the way past, let... team, .and just when he was needed most it be known that had it not been for the^ he would be compelled to leave in order to brilliant work of McDonald throughout the 
206 NOTRE DAME 
the chances are that the Varsity 
game would have ended their successful season 
•with a defeat. He -w^as the man -^^ho undoubtedly saved the day^ for Notre Dame, as his t-wo long runs in the last half practically \\r'on the game for the Varsity. Captain Callicrate plaA'-ed his usual star game until injured during the second half, and the first touchdown was in a large measure occasioned by the Captain's efforts. The game started with the Varsity-
receiving the kick off, and they went in at 
once to w^in, but after they had carried the 
ball half the length of the field they went 
to pieces; and from then on all during the 
first half the game put up by^ the Varsity 
was a ragged affair. Capt. Callicrate and 
McDonald carried the ball within striking 
distance two or three times, and finalh^, 
after getting to the 10-yard line again 
Callicrate in three bucks went over. A few 
minutes later Ryan dropped a punt and a 
St. Vincent's man fell on it for a touchdown. 
Score: Notre Dame, 6; St. Vincent's, 6. 
In the second half the Varsity scored first, McDonald getting away for a long run and a touchdown. Five minutes later Burson picked up a fumble and raced sixty yards for a touchdown and Kennedy kicked goal, giving St. Vincent's a lead of one point. But McDonald rose to the occasion again, and by a brilliant run off tackle went over half the length of the field, passing and straight-arming half of the St. Vincent team. Ryan made the game safe a few^ minutes later by putting a place kick between the bars from the thirty-yard line. 
St. Vincent's have two men—Burson, quarter-back, and Kennedy half-back—^that 
•would
 grace any team in the country. And had it not been for the work of those two men St. Vincent's would have been in a bad 

•way.
 Burson is lightning-fast on his feet, a great open-field runner and put up a grand game in every -way. 



NOTRE DAME ST. VINCENT'S 
Burdick R. E. Quaile Lynch R. T. Donovan Paine R. G. Roche Mertes C. Selby Burke L. G. Klepic Donovan L. T. Hyjac Munson L. E. Galovan Ryan Q- B. Burson McDonald L. H. B. Kennedy Callicrate R. H. B. Obermeyer O'Leary F. B. Obermeyer 
SCHOLASTIC 
CULVER, 12; CORBY, 0. 
On Thanksgiving Day Corby. Hall was 
defeated 12-0 b3'' the Culver Military Acad­
emy team at Culver. The Corbyites were 
much in need of practice and team work, 
but made a good showing, considering the 
fact that the Culver followers expected a 
score of about 40-0. The Culver team was 
fast and had any number of sensational 
plays and passes. Several times the centre 
was ten or fifteen yards on either side of the 
team when the ball was put in play. These 
plaj^s kept the Corby team guessing for a 
short time in the first half when Culver 
scored two touchdowns in about ten 

minutes. They' worked the ball up to the 
five-3'ard line, pushing it' over on a line-
plunge. 
The second touchdown was made almost as quickly as the first, the ball being run all over the field on forward passes till it was near enough for some one to carry it over the goal line. 
After the second touchdown the tide 

turned. Corby kicked off to Culver who at 
once tried the much-used forward pass. The 
pass -^^as illegal, and Culver received the 
fifteen-3'-ard penalty. Culver punted and 
Corby' got the ball. Sclirader and Shafer 
then found the weak spots in the Culver 
line and made many gains. -The quarter­
back kick was used with success several 
times, Kenned3^ being on hand to fall on 
the ball. Both teams started the punting 
game, Shafer doing the booting for Corby. 
In the second half Corb3'^ kicked off to Culver and the ball -was returned twenty yards before being downed. Culver worked the ball to the centre of the field where a forward pass was tried. Stewart, the Corby left end, jumped in front of the Culver man and got the ball. For a minute it looked like a score for Corby, but in another minute Stewart and a Culver tackier were rolling on the ground. 
After that Culver never succeeded in making a forward pass. The ball would fall into Kennedy's or Stewart's hands or, be declared dead by the referee. Foley managed to ^tt through the line and break up several plays, thus keeping the score down. The game ended with the ball in Corby's possession in Culver's territory. 
BROWNSON, 0; RENSSELAER, 0. 
It was a splendid day and an unusually 

fine football game, spiritedly contested and 
with several brilliant plays and a pros­
pect almost any moment of either team 
winning. The football representatives of 
Brownson Hall and Rensselaer contended 
for supremacy that resulted in a tie. The 
two teams led by the Rensselaer Band were 
followed by about fourteen hundred rooters 
who made themselves heard throughout 
the contest. St. Joseph's College was right 
there in rooting for Notre Dame, and time 
and again there arose from the east side 
of the field the encouraging cry: "Hold 
them, Notre Dame." This gave Brownson 
the "pep" to stop the onslaught of their 
heavy opponents who had them outclassed 
in weight; but in the matter of team work, 
Brownson had the best of Rensselaer. 
Following the kick-off" in the first half by Rensselaer Brownson failed to advance the ball and was forced to punt. The kick was a poor one and this gave Rensselaer an excellent chance to score, for they secured the ball on our 30-yard line, but Smyth at centre broke through the line twice and caused the quarter-back to fumble each time; they were then tackled for a loss, and before they could recover, Brownson's speedy backs had worked the ball down to Rensselaer's 2-yard line. Here Brownson w^as held for downs. Dobbins of Rensselaer punted the ball well down the field. 
Brownson was held for downs on their 35-yard line, and thus gave Rensselaer another chance to score; but Morgan's drop kick was blocked and O'Leary's kick out of danger. The half ended with the ball in our possession in the centre of the field. In the second half the playing was prob­ably more spectacular than during the first, and when Fish from the centre of the field received a perfect forward pass, and carried the ball 45-yards, it looked like victory for Brownson. 
That Brownson was made up of the right material, and well versed in football theory was not only shown in this game but was brought to light to their many followers when they defeated Corby a few weeks ago, and thus succeeded in winning the Inter-Hall Championship. 
Personals. 

—^Last week the Misses Biggins, of Alton, 
111., visited their nephew Lucian Coppinger 
who is a student of Corby HaU. 
—Mr. T. Lowrey, who was a student at 
the University from '91 to '98, returned for 
a brief visit on November 23d. Mr. Lowrey 
is married and has a son whom he intends 
to send to Notre Dame in due time. At 
present he is engaged in the practice of 
law at Wheeling, West Virginia.. 
—Mr. Fred Strauss, commercial graduate of the class of '06, is pursuing a course of specialized chemistiy in the dye works at Philadelphia, after which he will return to Chicago where he will apply his knowl­edge in a practical way. His mother has control of the most extensive dye works in Chicago. 
—Mr. Joseph Falomir, a student in Brown­son Hall last year, has been making an extended tour through Europe accompanied by his parents. Among the notable per­sonages he was privileged to see were Pope Pius X., the President of France and kings of England, Denmark and Spain. Joe returned to Notre Dame last Thursday. 
—Mr. Halsey Boland, who was a student in Carroll Hall twenty years ago, visited the University early this week. He feels that the most peacefiil place he has ever known is Notre Dame, and fotmd the few hours he could spare from professional duties a most agreeable change. Mr. Boland is practising law in New York Ciiy. 
Card of Sympathy. 

The many friends of John K. Corbett, and the students of Corby Hall, desire to express their heartfelt sympathy to their friend and hall-mate, over the loss of his grandfather, Mr. John KHey, of Marion, Ind., who was recently called to his reward. Death was due to heart failure. George Kiley, a son of the deceased, was a former Notre Dame student. The SCHOIVASTIC on behalf of the University extends condolence to the bereaved family and friends. R. I. P. 
isfOTRE DAME 
Local -Items. 
—There will be no issue of the.SCHOLASTIC until'December "21, when the'STAPF will issue'a; special double number. • 
—^Found^^A pocljet-book; the owner may inquire a t the University librarj'-. : : ^Examinations will take place on Monday and Tuesday, December the 16th and 17th. 
77-Nptice—The person who borrowed yol-. umesix of the "World's Best Orations" will please confer with the "lender of the same. 
—^A number of arc lights have been installed in various parts of the campus and quad­rangle, filling, a .want that .has^ long been felt- >at the University. 
—Next Monday evening the students of Brownson, Hall will give .an entertainment t o the President and Faculty of the Univer­sity. The program will consist of musical and'-literarj'-- numbers: -" "-• ' , • 
•^Oh the first of the month-there was a game of football between the second.team, of St. Joseph's Hall and the Latin-Americans: result, 6 to 5 in favor of the formfer. Williams and Dominguez were the stars. " 
^^Thei University is = again indebted to the Hon. William J. .Onahan. of Chicago for a valuable gift. to ..the library., The work is entitled.,'.' The Discovery of Australia'' and the author is George Collingridge. It is a volume*of immense value to'students. • ' 
—^The Corby Hall po61-table has beeii re-covered with new cloth,: much to the delight of the lovers of the. cue. The,vigor with which the balls now rebound from cushion to Cushion is a sight' which has not been witnessed- on the table for tnany a-d^.^ ' '•-•-•• -• -^^ ' ''-•--••'• -• -• • 
—^The-Brownson Literary and- Debating Society ..lias purchased six. .of .Bishop Spald­ing's books for the use of its members. ..No meeting of the society was held on Thanks­giving Day or onJast.Thursday. At the next meeting the question for the inter-hall debate will be discussed. . ' ' " . "•.•'' 
—^The Corby basket-ball team defeated the South Bend Athletic Club, last Saturday evenirig by the^^* score of 21 to 19. Seven minutes; bveir. time; were - required: to decide the game .Next Monday the Mishawaka Athletic club will be played, and on ^Wednes­
day  the  Browiisori  Hair teanil  
'•^The Western  club, comprising  the  stu­ 
dents ^drri the Rocky Moiintaiti states  and­ 

\\^st?ttf 1:he^!R6ckies^ -was formed last Sunday e^senin^ .;The officers-elected are the folioWr.­ing: g^sidenti Coe McKenna; vice-presidentj T]^(eppp^e,,.Ca^yilie;, secretary, Ignatius Mc-. NaimTe^;^' Treasiirler, Frank' Walker. '[ _ ' 
'-^The "talk given by t)r. Mbnaghari to the 
SCHOLASTIC 
members ' of- the Engineering • Society on Wednesday evening, Nov. ^ 28th was well attended'. Dr. Monaghan took for" his sub­ject "Engineering and Economics," dwelling especially oh the opportunities that are to "• be .found; in the fieldoof engineering. ;•., .­
—Three members of the University Faculty took, prominent part in the Elks' Memorial Exercises which were held at the Oliver ,­Opera .House in South Bend last Sunday afternoon! Professor Peterseii had charge of the musical part of the program; Professor Farabaugh spoke- on the "Absent Ones," and.Professor Monaghan gave an address on."Charity,'', . . . , 
—^The law department has organized the.. Moot- Court for the present academic year, and has already begun handling cases in a practical vs^ay. Besides the Moot Court there is also a Court of Chancery, a - Court-of Justice, a Board of Arbitration, a .Supreme Court, a .United. States District Cojirt and, a United States Commissioner's.Court., The-., practical work which .the student, gets in these courts can. scarcely be overestimated. ^ 
.-^Last Sunday evening the first of the pre-.! liminary inter-hall contests in bratbry" was" held in Holy Cross Hall; There were seven speakers whose names, arranged in the order of, merit as.determined by the judges, are;, as, follows: A. Hebert, F. Wenninger and J. Ouinlan tie, T. Lahey, C. Miltner, A. Heiser, and J. Tbth. It has been deerned advisable not- to hold the final contest' between the halls as announced. But it is likely that such a contest will be. announced for next May. •. 
.-T-Next Thursday, 'evening, ,the: Philppa­trians.. will. give their annual reception to the University faculty in the parlor. The fact that'the Philopatrians have established' a high standard for such functions is-.a guarantee that .the.reception . will be a. source ,of, pleasure to all- who attend it. A .further, guarantee rests in the fact that the work of the society is under the direction of'Brother Cyprian. Thie members of the > Faculty are invited, without further notice, [~ to attend. The exercises begin at 7:30 p. m. ''\ 

—The.-final contest .for . the University. oratprica.1 honors.will be held, to-nighit in Washington Hall. Mr. J. Boyle will speak on "Christianity and the Worid's Peace." Mr.-V. Parish will have for his subject­"The Spirit of the Celt." Mr. R. Parker 5 has chosen to tell abput " Cardinal Richelieu, Exppnent bf Absolutism." Mr. W;. Xennartz will discourse oh " Amierica alnd the World's" Peace." The judges of the contest are-Father G. Thompson of Portland,'Oregoni.*~ Jerome J; Crowley,of-Chicago, Illinois,,and E^ ,r Honan,- of Rensselaer^ Indiana.. The decision, ... 
•will involve the "ppihipns of the judges'bii', manuscript and deliviety separately:' ' 






