^^«fSfc-fc»»»>W 
:m,'ii..m.;m,w--'-' --•—?• --^-inr'lirfi.rfiffTViiiliitlifiiiytri'rTliyiia'iffTr^^^ 
v^& =  
.--:'-!. .*5S3^? •:% '  
#  
i 0  
^ • ^ ^ '  
-r  rf  
/! il  \  
\f­ ­ 
%  '^Mn^^ '«*»»«s^.«-.  
^-^la  
^\i:ls?T>.^g;Sg?^  

^^e >Va/te 2>ame 

SCHCLASTIC 
>T?i»S£ 
December 10, 1948 Price 50c 
''^tbam^. 
:^^^,~.^.^-KsxsMaxaP9:\aekasBi:^iKxisissEBaif^^

-

OF nOTR£ DflmE 
SHARP/// 
«lL SAY ­DID you SEE THAT NEW SUIT HE BOUGHT TODAY AT 



GILBERT 
i^ 
u 
J 
You are Always a Guest Here Before You are a Customer 
Home of 

Hickey-Freeman . . 
Famous Names 
Society Brand . . . in Burberry . . . "GGC Men's Quality 
. . . Alpagora . .. Clothing 
British-R . . . Dobbs 



GILBERT'S 
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN  STREET  
SOUTH  N D •S  E S-T  
Dec. 10, 1948  

YOUR BOY WILL STAR IN 1958. 
~^, 

You'll be king for nianv a day after vour son receives his OfiBcial FIGHTING IRISH Booster Shirt. He'll be as proud as a peacock when he wears it to school. It has the Irish ND in the center. It's the ideal Christmas gift. And don't forget . . . we have a full range of sizes — one to 14 years. 
$]^.25 
Mail Orders .Accepted 

Postpaid 
Here's the ideal Ghristmas gift for the Notre Dame fan who loves records. The album contains six sides of Irish favorites: "When Irish Backs Go Marching By"; "Hike Notre Dame": "Down the Line"; "Notre Dame Our Mother": "Ave Maria"; and "The Victon- March." 

$4.25 
Mail Orders Accepted 

Posltiaid 
SEND FOR OUR SOUVENIR AND GIFT CATALOG 
Write 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Noire Dame, Indiana 
1948 FIGHTING IRISH 
Martin ,.. End McGehee Tackle Fischer Guard Walsh Center Wendell Guard Fallon Tackle Hart End Tripucka Quarter Brennan Half Sitko Half Panelli Full 
fe 
^•:^-i-^ . . . .
..^.^=:?^^ 
"fj>^<: ==T-'­


Notre Dame Bookstore 
Headquarters for ALL OFFICIAL Notre Dame Souvenirs 
Hmw 
m-f 

DIANA 
^^€aAtU*^t>0€a 
i 
\im i 

"Sitko Sets Sail" 
/J'C-t'i-a-H 

WITH YOUR NEGATIVES 
j^ 

You'll Like Our Extra Large Prints.... At No Extra Cost To You 
Try Our Quicic Mail Order Service 
Eight-Exposure Roll Devel­oped and Prints Enlarged for Just 30c 







Ault Camera Shop, Inc. 
122 SOUTH MAIN —OPPOSITE COURT HOUSE South Bend, Indiana PHONE 3-5041 
The Scholastic 
'BOYS WILL BE BOYS!' 


MILK, FOOD OF CHAMPIONS! 
It is said that football is the pig's game. He gets kicked arornid for sixty minutes every Saturday during October and November. But, we'd like to put a plug in for the cow. She provides those boys you see piled up in the comer with the kind of energy it 
National Milk 
takes to lug that squeal-less pig thousands of yards each season. Notre Dame football players and students consume 147,700 glasses of milk weekly. And tha^s GRADE A drinking, because i^s all supplied £rom the modem National Milk dairies. 


 Company 

OflSces:  921 S. LOUISE  ST.  306 EAST 10th ST.  
SOUTH BEND  MICHIG^^ CITY  
PHONE  6-7178  PHONE 150  

Dec. 10, 1948 




YOU CAN GO DANCING AFTER ONE LESSON 
Alice and George Davis 

Former Dance Director 
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS 
Chicago 
Stop Passing Up 
Good Times! 
It's Fun to Be Popular! 
In just one lesson, we'll show you that you can dance, even if you have never danced be­fore. Our short-cut method makes it possible for you to master the Foxtrot, Rumba, Samba, Jitterbug, or any other dance in just a few hours of private instruction. Know the thrill that good dancers know . . . the thrill of being the best dancer in your crowd. 



FIRST LESSON FREE 
We are so certain that we can make you a popular dance partner that we are making this challenge offer . . . your first lesson given AB­SOLUTELY FREE. This generous offer is being made for a limited time only, so don't wait. Phone for an appointment today. 
PHONE 4-0801 
Open daily 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Saturday 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 



^^c 2)ay4 
^NCE OTtDIOS 
345 LINCOLN WAY WEST SOUTH BEND 


SCMCLASTIC 
Vol. 90 December 10. 1948 No. 11 
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. 
Editor 
JOSEPH A. DOYLE 
Associate Editors 
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON 
KENNETH A. THOREN  News  
VICTOR DORR  Assistant News  
W. GREGORY HALPIN  Features  
HARRY MONAHAN  Sports  
RALPH H. WRIGHT- Assistant Sports  
JOHN WALKER  Photography  
WILLIAM GORMAN- Librarian  
L. A. KYSER  Advertising  
ROBERT J. VIERHILE..  Advertising  
JOHN T. CLARK  Circulation  

GEORGE M. KORHUMEL Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator 
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Asso­ciated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
TH E SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 183, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
COVER: "Why Jim Martin?" a lot of people will ask as they look at the cover of this football review. Big and rugged, Martin typifies the football that is played at Notre Dame. We do not mean to say that Martin is any more typical than any of the others on this fine Irish squad, but he is big, he is rugged, and he is a great football player. Scholastic photographer Jim Ferstel caught Coach Leahy and End Martin in this very pensive pose along the sidelines at the Iowa game. 

kr-: 
^ 
[ ^^ 
s-*5*^/ ­
^nom the, ZiUofi'l S^esM 
The Fighting Irish — A Historical Note 

The tradition of "Irish" at Notre Dame does not mean race as such, nor is it just another nickname. The fact is, it is the memory of a long, uphill fight for equal rights in a free land, and for recognition xmder the code of sportsmanship. 
Notre Dame began athletic competition chiefly with local colleges founded by various religious denominations. The press would refer to them as the "Baptists," the "Methodists," and the like. For Notre Dame it was the "Catholics" or "Irish," though the players were never all of Irish ancestry, nor were all Catholics. The usage was not original, but a continuing custom from earlier times. The bulk of the first Catholic immigrants were Irish so that "Catholic" and "Irish" were identical in the public mind. Few of the original states were without laws against them. They believed that no Catholic could be a' good Amer­ican. Advertisements for "help wanted" commonly carried the restric­tion: "No CathoUcs," "No Irish." The Puritans, then, were the first to cry, "Stop the Irish!" 
It is a long cry from Puritan days to 1842 when a little band of religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross from LeMans, France, took over a log cabin in the wilderness of Northern Indiana and-began a college for the training of American youth, which they characteristically called Notre Dame. Their only stake was a great faith; their daily tools, . a prayer. The first shadow upon their lofty purpose was an appeal by a group of evangelicals to start another college in nearby South Bend to offset "this Romanizing influence." The building they put up later became a factory. 
When the religious origin of the other colleges lost its significance, the emphasis shifted to conventional names and their school colors. History is recorded remembrance. It is good to remember that "Irish," as kept at Notre Dame has an authentic history, and a meaning deeper even than race. 
Cheering throngs in vast stadiums today, and millions beside the' radio hearing the chant of "I-R-I-S-H!" can but dimly sense the tribute it is to the men of Notre Dame who pioneered in the spread of good will and a better understanding the world around. A slur became a symbol. It amuses some, annoys others. It stands for the fidelity and courage of everyone who suffers from discrimination because of Im race or religion. Keeping the tradition sustains the spirits of everyone who suffers discrimination from any cause. It inspires respect for the basic Christian origins of our country. 






FOOTBALL 
^Mt^'^MMmrj 
%< I^:f5¥^>; 
-'.•^ 

^ ^«?. 
^ 
'•?*»j 



^.m%w^wmi:^^mmi^wm:m^^_ ^ 
i... ,•»•-.•••., ^.^.^T-.^.^ r.^ --1-.., - ... . t^^-'.-^. . •-^•_. -^**'^'' ' • ,*•". r '.-' • <" 

If ,..4:-:k ,^1 •^:;^^t<y^vi^C^;ii'f<ay^^ji^r.>-.^rg:.a=i:£-^3 
^»«^«{« 


^lM.15^Sa$^ 
C^^'-i
-'-f' ^n, i»«: 
-JCT' '-• 'ii 
'-....vV3;«£*iaa«^^ 
A 


Review 
of the 



Fighting Irish 

mi 
The SCHOLASTIC presents this year's story of football at 
> • >
Notre Dame — the coaches, players, the game s they played, the men behind the scene, and the spirit that moved another great Irish team. 

' •"•^,. '^ 
^p^t^^^^-Kn^-jrw^^o^ 

'C^' >.V".'-^'"^™''\!r'^^^!r^ 
-'>:j';r-l 
-, , J 
L.--" 
i;> 
f;%?|:.y; 

Approaches Rockne's Mark 
FRANK LEAHY, director of athletics and head to this season showed only three losses in five sea­football coach: The "pessimistic Irishman" has sons, while his "lads" had captured the national caused rumblings in the sports world during his championship three times. This season he eclipsed whole collegiate coaching career. He posted 20 an Irish winning streak record set by Rockne in wins in 22 games while head coach at Boston Col­1929-30. He was born on August 27, 1908, in lege, among them the 19-13 win over Tennessee in O'Neill, Nebraska, He is married and has five chil­the 1941 Sugar Bowl. His Notre Dame record prior dren, three boys and two girls. 
The Scholastic 


Moose Retires to the Office 
EDWARD W. KRAUSE, assistant director of athletics and head basketball coach. "Moose" re­tired from teaching Frank Leahy's linemen their gridiron fundamentals after the Purdue game this year, and tackled the avalanche of paper work in the athletic office. He will continue to hold the cage reins. Ail-American winner in both football and basketball while attending Notre Dame, Ed returned to the South Bend campus in 1942 after three years as line coach at Holy Cross. He served in the Marine Corps from 1944 until 1946. Chicago's De LaSalle high school sent Ed to Notre Dame where he became the only athlete in the university's history to be voted a trophy by the student^ body. 
Dec. 10, 1948 


Assistant Coaches Add 
WALTER ZIEMBA . . . sLx years of coaching Notre Dame centers hasn't dulled Wally's competitive spirit .. . he still goes out every day of the season to give the boys a "little workout" . . . born in Hammond, Ind., on July 19, 1919, he gained considerable renown in Ham­mond High School for his athletic prowess . . . during his four years of interscholastic competition, he played end, fullback and tackle on the football team, and was also active on the basket­ball and ti'ack squads .. . as a senior in 1939 he was an All-State selection in football and won the Indiana Inter­scholastic championship in the shotput. . . . Coming to Notre Dame in the fall of the same year the big 6'G", 240 pound lad won a spot on the freshman squad as a tackle .. . he won a monogram as tackle with the varsity in his second year, but was switched to center in 1941, where he remained, pulling do\\Ti AU-American honors in his senior year . . . shortly after his graduation Wally re­ported to the Marines at Parris Isand, 
S. C, but was discharged for a phys­ical disability .. . he joined the Irish coaching staff in 1943, soon after the AU-Star game . . . despite his coach­ing ability, he seldom sees the Irish in action because Coach Leahy has found him to be one of the best scouts in the business. . . . Wally was married in January, 1945 to the former Julia Kru­kowski, of Hammond, Ind. They have one child, Susan Gail. 
JOSEPH McARDLE . . . another man long associated with Frank Leahy . . . born on June 2, 1911, at Lowell, Mass., Mac etched his name in the annals of Lowell High School athletics where he won letters in football and baseball . . . as an undergraduate at Fordham Uni­versity, he won three football monograms and a set of freshman numerals . . ­played guard for the Eams . . . was first affiliated with the "Leahy System" during his junior year with the Rams, when Notre Dame's present head coach was then the Fordham line coach under Crowley . . . after graduation, Mac ped­dled insurance and worked as a pro­motion man for the New York World-Telegram. In 1939 Frank Leahy called this red-faced Irishman to Boston College as line coach .. . he followed Leahy to Notre Dame in 1941 , . . entering the Navy in 1942, he racked up 44 months of service, including a nine-month tour of duty on the aircraft carrier Wasp in the Pacific theater. . . . Shortly after his dis­charge as a Lieut. Commander in 1946, the stocky, wavy-haired coach of the guards returned to Notre Dame to help steer the Irish to their National Cham­pionship. . . . He's been at it ever since and a look at the record will prove that McArdle's guards are the toughest and meanest guards you'd ever want to meet on a Saturday afternoon... . He married the former Eleanor Sullivan of Lowell on May 24, 1942 . . . they have two chil­dren, a boy and a girl. 
WILLIAM EARLEY .. . one of the younger members of the coaching staff. Bill Farley's double capacity as backfield coach and scout have served the Irish in good stead during his two years of service .. . a native of Parkersburg, West Virginia, he gained recognition at Parkersburg High for his athletic ability, receiving monograms in football, basket­ball and track . . . entering Notre Dame in 1939, he earned freshman football numerals his first year and won varsity monograms in '40, '41, and '42 . . . under Coach Leahy during his last two years, he distinguished himself as a dependable line bucker and a fleet breakaway run­ner , . . romped 60 yards to the one-foot line to set up winning touchdown in 20-13 win over Navy in 1941 .. . his brother Fred was placekicking specialist in '43, '46, '47 .. . entered the Army Air Forces in 1943 after his graduation and gave them some 31 months of service during which he served as a B-24 bom­bardier in Italy . . . was discharged in '45 as a captain, having the Distin­guished Flying Cross, the Air Medal and the Purple Heart to his credit. . . played with 2nd Air Force Superbombers before his army discharge . . . returning to ND in 1946, he assumed duties as coach of the B squad . . . was appointed varsity backfield coach last year .. . in February, 1943 Bill mari-ied a hometown girl, Louise Catherine Schilling. They are the parents of two children, Michael Henry, 3, and Cathy Louise, 1. 
The Scholastic 

Know-how to Irish Spirit 
JOHN DRUZE .. . has been with Frank Leahy almost without exception since his college days.., Born in 1914 in Newark, N. J., he was a three-letter man during his four years at Irvington High, copping a monogram and three stripes in football, baseball and basketball . . . entered Fordham in 1934, played fresh­man ball under Ed Huntsinger and three years as a regular under the famous Jim Crowley, with Frank Leahy as assistant coach . . . captained the "Seven Blocks of Granite" in 1938, his senior year . . . held down first base for the Rams baseballers and distinguished him­self on the basketball coui*t also. . . . After he graduated with a BS in Econ­omics, he played a year of pro ball with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1938 under Potsy Clark, and in '39 he went to Boston College as end coach, hired by Frank Leahy... followed Leahy to Notre Dame only to leave in '42 to accept an ensign's rating in the Navy . . . served in both the European and Pacific thea­ters until his discharge as a full lieuten­ant in the fall of 1945 . . . returned to Notre Dame for spring practice in 1946, and has been tutoring Irish ends ever since .. . he has never seen a Notre Dame team lose during his tenure of office, and he too, was instrumental in the National Championships of '46 and *47 . . . the six-foot Druze married a Newark girl shortly after he entered 
the service in 1942. They have one child, a daughter. 
BERNARD CRIMMINS . . . another Irish stalwart affected by Coach Frank Leahy's line-to-back-field conversion pol­icy .. . in '39 and '40, Bemie had already accounted for two Notre Dame varsity monograms as a back . . . following Leahy's arrival in 1941, he was im­mediately transferred to a guard post, winning his third monogram and honors on most of the AU-American teams se­lected that year .. . a native of the blue grass country, this amiable Irishman calls LouisviUe, Kentucky, his home town . . . after his graduation from Notre Dame he coached for about a month in Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City . . . but the course of World War II had him back at Notre Dame again, this time to win his commission in the Midshipman School conducted here . . . after receiving his ensign's com­mission he served 32 months in the Navy, including a tour of duty in the Pacific theater as the commander of a PT boat .. . he was discharged a full lieutenant in September, 1945, having won the Silver Star for action against Japanese barges along the New Guinea Coast. . . 
he joined the Notre Dame coaching staff early in 1946, being assigned to tutor the Irish backs. .. . It is Crimmins who holds do^^^l the vital press-box position during games, relaying information to Coach Leahy on the bench .. . on February 7 of this year he married the for­mer Miss Dorothy Linnig, of Louis­viUe, Kentucky. 
FKEDERICK MILLER . . . eapaUe volunteer coach of fighting Irish teams ... he is currently serving in his own capacity as an assistant to Frank Leahy and his regular staff, devoting much ct his time and effort to the tutoring^ and tempering of great Notre Dame teams .. . a successful business man, Fred MiUer is the president of the weU-known Miller's High Life Brewing Co., in Mil­waukee ... a resident of Oconomo­woc, Wisconsin, he has frequently com­muted to South Bend in his private Ercoupe to attend practice sessions, con­venientiy landing in the spacious pasture east of the stadium .. . a bow-tie addict, the dark, dapper Mr. Miller presents a neat picture on the campus, hut on Cartier Field in moleskins Notre Dame' grid hopefuls have come to respect his-' authority and experience . . . while an 
undergraduate at Notre Dam^ he achieved considerable recognition as an Irish football star .. . he was captain and a star tackle on the 1928 Notre Dam'a team which included Frank Leahy ... he won three varsity mono­grams for football while he was here, and was just recently elected national president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club .. . he is happily married and the father of eight children . . . his wif^ the former Adele Kanaley, also has a Notre Dame background, hein^ the daughter of Byron V. Kanaley, a mem­ber of the Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees of the University. 
Dec. 10. 1948 
w^ 
-_ewi' 

Fischer Captains Irish Gridiron Giants 
WILLIAM FISCHER . . . Ail-American guard in 1947 . . . named to some of the mythical teams in 1946 .. . a regular since the final game of 1945. The "Moose," of a long string of Irish "Mooses," was named Line­man of the Week for his stellar play in the Northwestern game . . . has consistently dazzled the opposition with his offensive play at guard and his defensive work at tackle . . . the 21-year-old, 230-pound Chicago lad began his gridiron experience at Lane Tech High School... captained that squad in his senior year, receiving All-State honors . . . had two years of worestling besides his three football seasons. Lives near Wrigley Field . . . hopes to play pro ball for a while and then start coaching. 
TERENCE BRENNAN . . . slippery Terry has been the neme­sis on many of the Irish opponents' premises . . . Milwaukee, Wis., is proud to claim this ND halfback . . . played tlu-ee years on the Marquette high football team in the town that made beer famous .. . is a Philosophy major in the Arts and Letters College . . . ex­pects to enter Law School and then set up a practice after gradua­tion next June .. . as might be expected, his biggest sports thrill was that runback of the kick-off in the '47 Army game . . . "Kir­sten Lavransdatter" is his favorite novel. He's also a good pianist. His older brother, Jim, won monogi-ams here in '44 and '47. Terry was hampered by a knee injury for part of this season. 
AUGUST CIFELLI . . . towering tackle from Philadelphia, Pa. . . . "Gus" is in his third year at Notre Dame and has seen con­siderable action this season bolstering the Irish forward wall . . . one of the largest, most amiable men on the squad, this 23-year-old ex-Marine is also a boxing addict... an ex-Bengal Bouter, he was awarded the sportsmanship trophy hy the Chi THbune's Arch Ward in 1946 . . . gained his high school experience at La Salle in Phil­adelphia, where he won letters in football, track and basketball . . . is majoring in philosophy and hopes to work for his master's de­gree after a short stint in professional ranks . . . was married last year to the former Miss Marguerite E. Varga, of South Bend. 
LAWRENCE COUTRE . . . "Scooter" first gained the limelight with his 75-yard touchdo\\'Ti gallop in the '47 Old Timers game . . . has steadily improved in value and experience .. . one of the fastest men on the Irish varsity, this little red-haired Chicago halfback has consistently kept the defense on the alert with his slashing drives . . . played in high school for St. George's in Evanston, 111., where he won three football monograms . . . was all-city halfback and captain of the squad in 1945 .. . he is 20 years old and a junior in the College of Commerce .. . likes all outdoor activities and Jack London books . . . plans to join the play-for-pay ranks after graduation. 
RAYMOND ESPENAN .. . up from the Deep South, this 22­year-old reserve end from New Orleans is after his second varsity monogram this year .. . copped his first last season as a sophomore . .. during the winter and spring months he runs up score with the Irish track team as the leading broad-jumper, has two ND mono­grams .. . a product of New Orleans Holy Cross High School, he earned six prep athletic letters in football and track .. . is a vet­eran of two year's service with the Navy .. . a junior in physical education, Ray is hoping for an instructor's or coach's job after graduation. 
Dec. 10, 1948 

JOHN FALLON . . . rugged Irish tackle from Alton, 111. . . . was kept out of competition last season because of a leg injury . . . won Notre Dame monograms in 1945-46 .. . is former Uni­versity hea\^^weight boxing champion, having dropped his title to team mate Jim Martin last spring .. . at Alton's Marquette High he won thi'ee football letters and captained the team .. . a senior in conmierce, the 21-year-old Jack is considering fighting professionally under Floyd Fitzsimmons' guidance after gi'adua­tion. 
JOHN FEAMPTON . . . Notre Dame's proof that dynamite comes in small packages . . . the 24-year-old Pomona, Calif., lad won his first Irish monogram last season . . . shelved with injuries for most of 1948, the explosive little guard is expected to make a comeback next fall . . . won two monograms at Pomona High and was named all-Southern California guard in his senior year . . . served 33 months in Naval Air Corps .. . an Arts and Letters junior, Johnny calls child psychology his favorite course and hopes to enter some tj'^pe of youth work after graduation . . . his hobbies include mountain climbing, skiing and fly-fishing . .. biggest sports thrill came when he landed a 16-lb. brook trout. 
FRANCIS GAUL . . . 22-year-old Irish tackle from Cleveland, 
0.. . . playing his third year for Notre Dame, the former Cathe­dral Latin lineman was named to all-city honors in 1944 .. . is a handball addict in the football off-season . . , teams with Jack Fallon against all takers in pool games .. . a senior in business administration, he plans to play professional football for several years with possible plans for future law studies . . . Damon Run­yon is his favorite author and playing against Paul Brown's fa­mous Massilon, 0., high school team was his greatest athletic thrill. 
WILLIAM GAY . . . fleet sophomore halfback who has thrilled spectators with brilliant running during the season . . . another product of Chicago's Tilden Tech, he captained their gridders in his senior year . . . says winning the 1945 Kelly Bowl football championship against Weber High was his biggest thrill . . . his speed, agility, and pass-catching prowess will assure him of added service next fall .. . a veteran of overseas service in Japan, the 20-year-old Gay majors in commerce, rates history his favorite subject and Zane Grey his favorite author . . . with the experience 1948 has given him, Gay may well be expected to reap new honors in next year's grid battles. 
The Scholastic 

JEROME GROOM . . . Irish-German center from Des Moines, Iowa, and a terrific line-backer for the Irish regulars . . . with two years of eligibility ahead of him, this 19-year-old sophomore seems destined for a great gridiron career at Notre Dame .. . at Des Moines Dowling High School, he was awarded three monograms each in football and baseball and was tapped for all-State gi-id hon­ors in 1946 . . , for hobbies, he likes working at boys' camps and taking motion pictures . . . says his biggest athletic thrill to date was playing in the annual Old Timer's game last spring .. . an accounting major in the College of Commerce, he plans to enter business after graduation. 
WALTER GROTHAUS .. . big blond center from Cincinnati, 
0.. . . alternates with Bill Walsh at the pivot post and is rated most likely to take over next year . . . won an Irish monogram with the 1945 team, spent a year in the Army and returned to No­tre Dame last year to win his second letter .. . in spring practice he was presented the 1948 Hering award for the best-blocking center .. . at Purcell High School in Cincinnati, he won three letters in football and two in basketball while captaining both squads his senior year . . . was named All-State in 1944 ... he is 22 years old and a junior in the College of Commerce . . . likes to play bridge and has no definite post-graduation plans. 
LEON HART ... gigantic right end from Turtle Creek, Pa.. . . rated one of the finest defensive flanlanen in collegiate football .. . at 18 he won his first Notre Dame monogi'am with the cham­pionship '46 squad . . . took over last season as starting right end and will be a stalwart in next year's lineup . . . won letters in three high school sports, football, basketball and baseball . . . for close to tAvo years now he has held close to an 82 average in the College of Engineering . . . math is his favorite subject and steak is his favorite food . . . was presented the Hering Award at the end of spring practice as the "best blocking end" . . . was named to the Football Writers Association's first All-American team last year. 
FRANCIS JOHNSON . . . chunky Irish-Gei-man guard from Cincinnati, 0. . . . has shown up well in a reserve capacity, in this, his second year with the Fighting Irish .. ."Rodney" has thin blond hair and appears almost bald from a distance .. . at St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati, where he teamed with George Ratter-man, former Irish quarterback, he won monograms in three sports, football, baseball and basketball . . . was captain of the football squad in his senior year . . . like many other members of the Irish squad, he is a rabid bridge fan... is a junior in the College of Com­merce, and is expected to see more action next year. 
Dec. 10, 1948 

ROBERT LALLY . . . Irish-German guard from Cleveland, 0. . . . broke into the Irish ranks last season when he won his first monogram and has been among the top Notre Dame linemen ever since .. . a driving defensive player and a deadly blocker. Bob stacks up as one of the best Irish prospects for next year . . . was teamed ^^^th squad mate Frank Gaul at Cleveland's Cathedral Latin High School, where he won two football and three track letters . . . was twice named to All-State honors .. . is a rabid fol­lower of the Cleveland Indians and names pitcher Gene Bearden his favorite sports figure .. . a junior in Commerce, Bob is also the vice-president of his class .. . he plans to enter business after graduation. 
JOHN LANDRY . . . square jawed, and showing his Irish-French blood, this sophomore halfback from Rochester, N. Y., broke into the headlines this year with his streak-of-lightning play­ing ... is the first product of the coaching of Harry Wright, former Irish quarterback and guard, to enter Notre Dame . . . earned two letters in football at Aquinas Institute in his home town .. . is now 22 and spent two years in the Navy before entering the home of the Irish .. . is a physical education major . . . Jack's favorite ath­lete was and still is his brother Bob, who played football, too . . . Bob was killed vvhile with the Marines in the Pacific. 
JAMES MARTIN . . . rugged left end from Cleveland, 0. . . . has held down starting end spot for the past two years . . . "Jungle Jim," while not a flashy player, has proven his reliability, both on offense and defense . . . came to Notre Dame in 1946 after a 30­month stint ill the Marines . . . won the University hea\^''weight boxing title last year from teammate Jack Fallon .. . A product of Cleveland's East Tech High School, he won three prep letters in football and two in swimming . . . realized his greatest thrill in competitive athletics in 1946 when the Fighting Irish held the Black Knights of Army to a standstill .. . a junior in physical education, he plans to land a high school coaching job after grad­uation. 
JOE COY McGEE . . . benched this year by a fractured leg . . . the galloping wonder from Longview, Texas, racked up an enviable record, however, before Old Man Fate sidelined him . . . gathered up nine letters in high school... divided evenly between basketball, football and track .. . is an aeronautical engineering major . .. will graduate cum laude in January . . . married Miss Jean Borkowski of South Bend last Christmas .. . considers taking snap shots of his wife and little daughter, Sharon Jeanine, as his favorite hobby . . , playing in the Southern California game in '46 is chalked up as his biggest sports thrill . . . received monograms in football in '46 and '47 and captured a Hering Award in '47. 
The Scholastic 

RALPH McGEHEE . . . this Chicago lad arrived in South Bend after a star-studded athletic career at Tilden High where he played football and featured in wrestling . . , the chunky tackle is enrolled in Commerce where he's studying for a degree in business admin­istration . . . history is his favorite course . . . pro ball might claim him after graduation . . . Bronko Nagurski and Esther Williams are his favorite sports figures .. . he has a Hering spring practice medal for the best blocking tackle to his credit , . . went to high school with fellow teammates Bill Gay, Mike Swistowicz, Emil Cie­chanowicz and Chuck Feigel. 
WILLIAM LEO McKILLIP .. . a promising sophomore half­back who displayed his mettle in the Nebraska and Pittsburgh games in particular-. . . Leo hails from McCook, Neb., is 19 years old, stands 5' 10" and is a well packed 175 . . . while in high school he played football and. basketball and racked up honors also in track . . . the reticent Nebraskan is majoring in physical education and considers hunting to be his favorite hobby . . . his greatest sports thrill was winning the high hurdles award at the Nebraska state meet two years ago . . . Tom Harmon is his sports idol. 
STEPHEN ORACKO . . . this year's extra point expert .. . his field goal in the Purdue game pulled the Irish through for their one-point margin victory . . . considers this to be his biggest sports thrill . . . Steve comes from Lansford, Pa., where he played foot­ball for the local high school for three years .. . he is a history major in the AB school . . . trout fishing claims most of his free time ... has received three monograms while at ND, in '45, '46, '47. 
JOHN PANELLI .. . a product of Morristown, N, J., this power-driving fullback has kept the opponents' defense on their toes with his slicing drives . . . scored four touchdowns last year while gaining 424 yards in 72 carries .. . at MoiTistown High School he earned four letters in football, and one monogram each in baseball and basketball . . . was named to All-State honors, in 1943 .. . he is 22 years old and a senior in pre-law . . . names speech, music and math his favorite subjects and Ernest Heming­way his favorite author . . . says his gi'eatest sports thrill came in this year's Purdue game when he returned the Boilermaker' block­ed punt for a touchdown . . . plans after graduation include pro­fessional football only if it is necessary to help him buy law books . .. his ambition is to become a top-flight lawyer. 
Dec. 10, 1948 
EMIL SITKO .. . the little "Red" stick of dynamite has sparked the Irish since '46 . . . comes from Fort Wayne, Ind. . . . won four football, two basketball, and three track letters while in high school .. . is an economics major .. . is not engaged but plans to marry Miss Dorie Anne Liddy of Fort Wayne in the near future . . . likes to pitch horseshoes and is quite a fisherman . . . enjoys all winter sports, is an excellent bridge player, and classical music pleases him .. . Joe Osmanski, former Chicago Bear fullback and now coach at Holy Cross, rates highest on his sports favorite list . . . has copped two football monograms and the Hering Award as the most elusive back on the squad at Notre Dame. 
LANCASTER SMITH .. . in his final year with the Irish var­sity, this curly-haired speedster from Lebanon, Ky., has stacked up as one of the finest defensive backs in collegiate circles . . . tlirows a jarring low tackle in spite of his small stature, and con­sistently spoils opponents' passes .. . says his fleet-footedness stems of a trait inherited from ancestors who dodged Indians when the blue-grass state was young .. . at Lebanon's St. Augustine High, "Lank" scored his name in athletic history, winning four mono­grams each in football and basketball . . . captained the grid squad in his senior year . . . one of the few married men on the squad, he is a senior in pre-law, and hopes to settle in the profession after graduation. 
FRANK SPANIEL . . . Italian-Slovak fullback from Vander­grift. Pa. . . . earned three letters in basketball and four in football while at the local high .. . is a junior in Commerce and maintains an 82 average . . . would like to enter the pro ball ranks after graduation . . . Mastrangelo and DiMaggio are his top athletic figures . . . considers playing in Pittsburgh against old teammates as his biggest sports thi-ill... got four football and thi'ee basketball letters while in high school and will receive his first ND monogram this year. 
MICHAEL SWISTOWICZ . . . one of the most versatile Irish runners, the hard-charging Mike has played every backfield post but quarterback .. . a native of Chicago's South Side, he won II athletic letters at Tilden Tech High School and was twice named to all-state football honors . . . captained football, track and ice-skating squads . . . calls playing with Notre Dame's 1946 power­house his greatest thrill in sports .. . an Arts and Letters junior, Mike majors in economics with hopes of becoming a lawyer .. . he likes to read Jack London novels and considers Lou Gehrig his favorite sports figure .. . a victim of recurrent injuries in 1948, big things are expected of Mike in his senior year. 
The Scholastic 

FRANCIS TRIPUCKA . . . came into his own this year after playing in the shadow of John Lujack for most of his Irish career . . . one of the smoothest ball-handling T-generals in the business. Trip's deception and cool-headedness on the field has led the Irish to another successful season . . , from Bloomfield, N. J., he won nine varsity monograms in football, baseball and track at Bloom­field High, was named All-State halfback in his senior year . . . likes Lou Gehrig, George Gipp, Creighton Miller and Angelo Ber­telli as his favorite sports figures .. . a commerce senior, majoring in business administration, Trip will gi-aduate in June .. . is en­gaged to Miss Randy Jewkes of Bloomfield . . . plans for a short professional football career, followed by business venture. 
FREDERICK WALLNER .. . up from last year's freshman squad, this 20-year-old product of Greenfield, Mass., shapes up as one of the finest fullback prospects for future Irish teams .. . a churning, hard-driving runner, and a sharp defensive man, he has proven his mettle time and again this year . . . was named twice to All-State football honors at Greenfield High, where he also starred in basketball and baseball .. . an Arts and Letters sopho­more, he majors in history, plans to play some pro ball after grad­uation before settling down in business . . . names Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind his favorite book and Bronko Nagurski his favorite athlete. 
WILLIAM WALSH .. . the Irish huge hunk of granite . . . has held down the center slot since his freshman year in 1945 .. . is now 21 and comes from Phillipsburg, N. J., where he garnered nine letters in sports at the local high school .. . he is heading for a physical education degree this January . . . also plans to marry Miss Shirley Whoit, a high school girl friend, soon after gi-aduating from Notre Dame . . . playing for the Irish has been his biggest sports thrill .. . he wants to play pro ball after graduation .. . he received the Hering Award in the spring of 1946 for the best block­ing center and has received a monogi'am for the past thi-ee years. 
DOUGLAS WAYBRIGHT . . . Saugus, Massachusetts crinkly blonde haired gift to the Irish picked up his career at left end last year after serving two years in the infantry . . . while in high school he played football, basketball, golf, hockey and participated in track .. . is heading for a degree in economics . . . might play pro football after graduation .. . an incurable bridge player, he. can generally be found playing a fourth with Sitko — has received two monograms at ND ... like many others, he lists jAaying for the Irish as his biggest sports thrill . . . \ajiky Ted Williams is his favorite sport personage . . . novels and short stories by Thomas Wolfe are his reading preferences. 
Dec. 10, 1948 

iir'i 
MARTIN WENDELL . . . just finished his fourth year of com­petition with Notre Dame . -• has the distinction, with Coach Bernie Crimmins, of having been the only men in ND history to earn monograms in three different positions .. . is majoring in business administration in the Commerce college . . . spent two years in the Navy . . . hails from Chicago and attended St. George's High School in Evanston, 111. . . . would like to enter pro ball after graduating . . . likes to play bridge . .. Danny Fortman is his favor­ite sports luminary . . . received three letters in high school, three monograms at ND and also the Hering Award. 
^VILLL4M WIGHTKIN . . . Lithuanian end from Culver City, Calif. . . . succeeded the inimitable Ziggy as the team clown . . . col­lected two letters each in football, basketball and baseball while in high school .. . is taking Mechanical Engineering and has main­tained a 90 average for two years . . . rooms with Leon Hart . . . served in the Coast Guard during the war .. . is thinking about becoming engaged . . . considers atomic physics to be his favorite subject. . . thinks Esther Williams is his favorite sports figure . . . puts Webstei''s Dictionary at the top of his reading list. 
ROBERT WILLIAMS . . . affable to all, big Bob lived up to all the pre-season predictions made about him . . . after this j^ear's experience he seems more than ready to step into the high stepping shoes of both Lujack and Tripucka . . . hails from Baltimore, Md. . . . received three football letters, four basketball letters, and three baseball letters while at Loyola High School and captained all three squads . . . all-state honors twice in each sport . . . will major in journalism . . . prefers French to all his other subjects and can often be heard calling his signals off, to himself, in French . . . playing in this year's Navy game in his home town was his biggest sports thrill... is vice-president of the sophomore class. 
ALFRED ZMIJEWSKI . . . probably the highest scoring tackle in the history of Notre Dame football... in last season's game with Southern California he snagged a Trojan lateral and romped 30 yards for a score, then in his very next game, '48's Purdue con­test, he grabbed a deflected Boilermaker pass and stepped across the goal line for what spelled the difference in winning and losing .. . at Newark, N. J., he was a standout in interscholastic athletics, winning three monograms each in football and basketball and two in baseball for East Side High School .. . he is 22 years old and a junior in the College of Engineering, with no definite plans for the immediate future. 
> » 
w 
.1 
u. 

SiSaS 
^®5w 

vTii'^i.^^;­

M^^lS^^ Xj^ 
m. 
ivf^ 

'•MA 

M 
<«l^ ..^sj^SBSKr:: 
^i^*^^!i*^'' 
IK'S: 

4«ai@:si^&(>9«i 
waiiiii ' 

^::-:jA?rii.':;r 
r^.^^^Wl^^^t'^
r^T* 





The Games they Played 
Dec. 10, 1948 

g.-y««siBai»taBai«Wi6t*aw«ij* aJ/iiJ.HaMMMBJiflWa'.StiMi^^ 
Irish band spreads welcome mat lor visitors 
Too little, too late: leHry scores last Purdue tally 
The Scholastic 
By Greg Halpin 
Notre Dame, Indiana, Sept. 25.—The Notre Dame. Sta­dium was the scene of a breath-taking combination of a three-ring circus and 59,34.3 heart attacks this after­noon as the Notre Dams football team proved itself moi^ adaptable to mass confusion and won what must go into memory as one of the great games of any season by a score of 28-27. 
The Irish used every method known to man to score touch­downs and resorted to plays that weren't even anticipated in the rule books. But they were able to keep their record clean mainly because their fullback John Panelli whirled his way 70 yards to the end zone with a blocked kick; because their high scoring third-string tackle, Al Zmijewski, inter­cepted a Purdue pass on the seven and bulled his way over; becaxise Steve Oracko, having missed three extra points from the two-yard line hit with a field goal from the 23; and maybe because it has become a contradiction of nature to beat the Irish at home. If they were ever going to be beaten, this was the afternoon. 
Purdue played this ball game as if their personal repu­tations and those of their school depended on it. They out­fought and outgained the Irish. They tore the vaunted ND forward wall into neat little chimks and galloped off between the pieces for appalling gains. Their quarterback Bob DeMoss looked like a collegiate reincarnation of Johnny Lujack. They did everything but win the ball game. But look what they were up against. 
Notre Dame started festivities with National Champion­ship efficiency. They had two touchdowns before Stu Hol­comb had decently lit his first cigar and they seemed off to the races. Emil Sitko racked up both of them from close-up, the first coming at the end of a 40-yard drive, the second started from 36 yards away as ND intercepted a Purdue pass. 
It took the Boilermakers about 27 minutes to get up enough steam to explode. They blew the top of the scoring barrel Avith but two minutes remaining in the half. Roar­ing 35 yards to the promised land they hit for six when DeMoss heaved 17 yards to Norb Adams in the end zone for the clincher. Rud Trbovich converted and the Irish led 12-7 as the bands took over the field. 
The Purdue lads came out for the second part of the program like men possessed (as they probably were—by Mr. Holcomb). Notre Dame kicked off, there resulted a deafen­ing report and when the dust had settled 15 plays later the Irish were trailing 13-12. Adams, Harry Szulborski and Bob Agnew had sliced through the ND line with great effect and Adams climaxed the 70-yard march by going across. The kick was wide. 
Here was an intolerable situation for Notre Dame and its fans. The very heavens seemed to glower at the idea that the Irish could be behind in their own backyard. So they dropped a little bolt of lightning down on the field. George Purzelts went back to punt for Purdue at midfield. Jim Martin, ND end, rushed him, partially blocked the kick and the ball lobbed lazily in the air over the 30-yard line. "Pep" Panelli, Irish fullback, made the snatch there, tore himself away from half the population of Lafayette, Indiana, and, escorted by an inspiring convoy of greenshirts, went 70 yards for the six points that turned the world right side up again. Oracko missed again and it was 18-13. As the last period opened Notre Dame was marching again. Stalled on the 23, Coach Leahy sent in the outcast — Oracko. Steve came through with three big points on a field goal. ND was coasting out in front 21-13. 
Dec. 10, 1948 


Notre Dame: 28 Purdue: 27 
"Notre Dame began another season with a vic­tory, but they probably used up a full season's quota of luck." Luke B. Carroll, New York Herald Tribune. 
But Purdue, shamelessly forgetting where they were, came fighting back. DeMoss threw a cross-country heave of 51 yards to Schmidt for a touchdown. The conversion was good and it was 21-20, still Notre Dame. 
With two minutes left, lightning, in the form of another "break" struck twice. Al Zmijewski, out of force of a habit picked up on the West Coast, broke through the Purdue right side as DeMoss was attempting a pass from his own seven-yard line. The rest went according to tradition. Mr. Zmijewski did just what was expected of him. He grabbed the flat pass and lumbered across for the 27th ND point. Oracko, newly inspired, converted and the Irish had upped their lead to 28-20. 
Purdue made it close in the dying minutes as DeMoss hit Jeffry in the end zone to climax a quick drive and a great ball game as the gun went off with Notre Dame on top 28-27. 
This was the second time in two seasons that the Boiler­makers have made the Irish look bad in the statistics. Last year some great passing by John Lujack (and incidentally, a field goal by that same Oracko) gave Notre Dame a hard-fought 22-7 victory. Today, Purdue made 13 first downs to 10 for Notre Dame, outnished them 151-123 and outpassed them 143-102. 
Coach Leahy dug into his bag of tricks and pulled out a double-quarterback stunt in the third quarter. Tripucka and sophomore Bob Williams both stood behind the center and each whirled simultaneously, faking handoffs to everybody but the waterboy. Only one of the plays gained a sizeable amount of yardage and after a series of downs, the Irish re­sorted to the conventional T for the rest of the afternoon. 
Oracko boots game-winning three pointer 
Notre Dame: 40 Pittsburgh: 0 
By Jim Butz 
"A sellout crowd of 63,000 went away con­vinced that the Irish could have scored 100 points if they had chosen to do so." Austin Bealmear, Associated Press. 

Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 2. — Pittsburgh's once-ferocious Panthers were as mild as kittens today when they suc­cumbed to the offensive might of Notre Dame, 40-0, before a sell-out throng of 64,000 in Pitt Stadium. The Irish bulled their way to four first-half scores and a 28-0 halftime lead before the Panthers could halt the Irish reserves. 
It took the Green Shirts but 7:40 of the first period to draw blood. Safet>Tnan Frank Spaniel intercepted Lee's pass on the Pitt 40 and returned it to the 10. On third down Tripucka passed the final seven yards to Leon Hart in the end zone. Oracko's placement made it 7-0. 
The ceiling really fell in on Pittsburgh in the second frame as Leahy's lads swept to thi'ee scores, turning the game into a i-out. Emil Sitko bucked over from his right halfback post on the two-yard line. Sitko's score climaxed an 84-yard march which needed but nine plays. Oracko made it 14-0. 
Frank Spaniel was next on the program to cross the Pitt goal line, the fullback crashing over from one yard out. Oracko's third straight conversion made it 21-0. Halfback Bill Gay set up this third tally by snatching a wayward Panther aerial and returning it to their 14. Still another reserve scored for Notre Dame when halfback Jack Landry, appearing in his first game for the Irish, went the final yard of a 42-yard stretch. Oracko added insult to injury and made it 28-0. 
The varsity, which had sat out most of the first half, sat out the entire second half as the reserves held the Pittsburgh lads scoreless and tallied two more six-pointers themselves. 

Lancaster Smith took third-period honors with an 85-yard punt return for a touchdown. The small sprint star gathered in a Pitt punt on his own 15-yard line, feinted a couple of would-be tacklers out of his way and scampered down the sidelines, escorted all the way by green-shirted linemen. Oracko finally caught on and missed the conversion. Notre Dame 34—Pitt 0. 
The final touchdown came in the fourth period when sophomore Leo McKillin climaxed a 68-yard advance with a nine-yard off-tackle smash. Oracko again missed, and the final tally read 40-0. 
Pitt threatened twice. In the first period Lee swept his right end for 10 yards to his 40 and then lateraled to Eobin­son who wheeled down to the Irish 10. Bill Wightkin, Notre Dame end, came from behind and overtook the speedy Pitt back. This threat fizzled when three line plays lost two yards and a fourth down pass was blocked by Capt. Bill Fischer. 
At the game's end Robinson was run out of bounds on the Notre Dame 6, ending a 79-yard Pittsbui-gh effort. These two threats were responsible for most of the Pitt ground-gaining throughout the day. All in all, they traveled a total of 139 yards on the ground and 110 in the air. 
Against this, the Irish made 255 yards by rushing and 47 by passing, throwing only six aerials and completing four. Two of Pitt's 30 passes were intercepted and led to Irish scores. Leahy's boys also returned four Pittsburgh punts for 140 yards to set up touchdowns. 
Sitko and Landry were the big guns in the Irish offense, along with Leo McKillip. Landry totalled 54 yards in 15 rushes, McKillip got 55 in 12 tries, and Sitko, the Fort Wayne Flyer, galloped 56 yards in eight attempts. 
Fancy Francis Tripucka pitched six passes and had four of them settle in Notre Dame hands for 47 yards and one touchdown. Tripucka's lone punt and four others by Bob Williams averaged 41,2 yards. 
Halfback Jimmy Robinson of Pittsburgh topped all run­ners with 68 yards for his eight carries, and Lou Cecconi gathered 48 yards in his 10 efforts. Cecconi also hit on 10 of his 21 passes for 106 yards. He was the outstanding offensive star for the Panthers. 
Counting the 1948 victory Notre Dame holds an 11 to 5 edge in victories with a single tie. 
Smith (20) tcdces to the air agcdnst Pitt Pcmelli dodges Panther line and Wendell (58) 
By Vic -Dorr 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 9.-^Eqlling to their third straight 
victory of 1948 and their 15th consecutive triumph in the 
last two seasons, Notre Dame's Fighting Irish came from 
behind today to subdue a valiant but undermanned Michigan 
State eleven, 26-7. Displaying a powerful ground and air 
oflFensive, the Irish overcame a first quarter deficit to take 
command of the situation for the rest of "the game. • • 
In this 17th renewal of gridiron rivalry l)etween the two 
schools, a capacity-jammed crowd of some 58,126 sun­
drenched spectators saw Coach Clarence L. "Biggie" Munn's 
Spartans throw a genuine scare into the Irish camp as they 
charged down the field and pushed across the first touch­
down with but six and one-half minutes of the first quar­
ter gone. 
Highlighting a quick exchange of punts after the open­
ing kick-off was little George Guerre's decisive quick-kick 
to the Ii-ish 13. Here, after Panelli had nibbled at center, 
Tripucka's pass to Leon Hart was grabbed by the Spartan's 
fleet Negro halfback, Horace Smith, who returned the ball 
to the Notre Dame 20. In a swift series of plays climaxed 
by Lynn Chadnois' slicing 13-yard sprint off right guard, 
and followed by LeRoy Crane's sudden center plunge to 
score, the Spartans went out in front, converted the extra 
point, and sent their several thousand score-thirsty support­
ers into frenzied cheers of glee. 
From here on in, the Irish were out for blood. Taking 
the Michigan State kickoff on their own six-yard line, they 
surged down the field in an explosion of running and aerial 
might. Energized by the running prowess of Emil Sitko, 
the workhorse of the day, Mike Swistowicz and John Panelli, 
and clicking on the dependable passing arm of Frank 
Tripucka, the Irish countered with a score of their own in 
the closing minutes of the first period. Tripucka fired a 
neat flat pass to Leon Hart in the end zone for the touch­
down. Steve Oracko failed to convert the extra point, and 
the Spartans still had a one-point advantage at the end 
of the quarter. 
The next Irish score came late in the second period as 
the result of a sustained drive from deep in Spartan terri­
tory. Capitalizing on running plays alone, particularly the 
charging drives of Swistowicz, Bill Gay and the redoubtable 
Sitko, the Irish climaxed an 11-play 96-yard assault with 
another touchdown as Swistowicz took a pitch-out from Tri­
pucka and skirted his right end for 12 yards and the tally. 
Though fighting stubbornly throughout the remainder 
of the game, the spunky Spartans were never able to muster 
a pay-off punch again. In the third quarter the Irish took 
the opening kickoff of the second half and powered the ball 
down to the Michigan State one-yard line, where Terry Bren­
nan bulled over for the score. Oracko's kick was good, to 
give the Ii-ish a 19-7 margin. The final Irish score came 
late in the fourth period after gallopin' Bill Gay snagged a 
Spartan pass on his 35 and returned to the Michigan State 
11. Sitko charged through left tackle for the score, and again Oracko's placement was good. 
In the face of overwhelming statistical and scoreboard superiority by the Irish, Michigan State's Sparatns might be viewed as victims of a^runaway game. Notre Dame com­pleted nine out of 16 passes to Michigan State's three out of 15; they amassed 398 yards by rushing to the Spartans' 152; and they engineered 24 first downs to State's 10, giving it all the earmarks of a rout. But the contest was not neai'ly so one-sided as the figures may seem to prove. 
Aided by an elastic, and somewhat ragged Irish defense, the Spartans' "T"-shifted single-wing offense came within a hair's breadth of scoring several different times during the 
Dec. 10, 1948 



Notre Dame: 26 Michigan State; 7 
"The game had its moments of suspense, but for most of the spectators it was like a movie thriller. They knew everything would come out all right in the end." Arch Ward, Qiicago Tribune. 
afternoon. Twice they were within the Notre Dame five-yard line. Once the Irish line had to dig in on the one-yard line and hold for dear life. Two beautiful Spartan passes, including a resurrected sleeper play, went for naught by hobbling with a touchdown in sight. Coach Munn's squad tried, and they tried hard, but the Irish team play, thou^ erratic at times, was just too much for them. 
As the weary Irish gridders trudged from the scene of battle TiVith another victory under their belts, they gave silent acclaim to a great coach of many great teams. It was Frank Leahy's forty-fourth win as director of Notre Dame football, as against three losses and four ties, and it was Notre Dame's twenty-first game without defeat. 
^^^;^#J& 
Irish line yields as Crane scores for Spartans 
::tim4-f:m.^M 
Gay (22) scampers with Fischer (72). McGehee (26). Moitin C3t) 29' 
Notre Dame: 27 




Iowa: 12 
"Like time, Notre Dame marches on." John 
C. Hoffman, Chicago Sun-Times. 
By Pete Brown 

Iowa City, Iowa, Oct. 23—Notre Dame partisans walked out of the Iowa Stadium with sweet dreams that will cause the Hawkeye fans many nightmares during the coming winter. The subject is John Panelli taking toss laterals from Frank Tripucka. Twice this afternoon Panelli and Tripucka got together on the toss latei-al play and scored touchdowns in Notre Dame's 27-12 win before 51,245 customers. 
On the first play from scrimmage immediately after Iowa had fumbled the opening kickoif and Notre Dame had re­covered, the Panelli-T'ripucka operation started. Panelli with unmatchable downfield blocking covered the necessary 34 yards to the goal line. The time elapsed was 47 seconds. Midway through the third quarter Messrs. P. and T. again cooperated for 39 yards and another score. 
During tha interim Al DiMarco, the Iowa quarterback, demonstrated to the Irish what chould be done with a foot­ball when thrown through the air. He picked a good after­noon. Tripucka and Bob Williams could complete only one pass and that "gained" a minus seven yards. DiMarco threw 26 passes and completed 11 for 201 yards. However, the Irish did not have to depend on passing. They picked up 372 yards on the ground while Iowa could only crack the Irish line for 41 yards. 
After Panelli's sprint for the initial score, the Hawkeyes took the second kickoff on their o\vn 26 and in six plays had the score tied at 6-6. On Iowa's return kick Emil Sitko grab­bed the ball and returned it 69 yards to the Iowa 11 before he was run out of bounds. The Irish were unable to capitalize on that opportunity. For the remainder of the first period and the first part of the second the ball was never out of Iowa territory. It was not until Leon Haii; recovered a Di­Marco fumble on the Iowa nine that the second Notre Dame score was set up. Sitko hit for five yards in two plays and then Bill Gay crossed the goal line. Steve Oracko converted and the score stood 13-6. In the third quarter Panelli in the second of his scoring sprints made it 19-6. Oracko made it 20. 
The Irish completed their scoring on the first play of the fourth period when Larry Coutre broke through the center of the Hawkeye line for 35 yards and a score. Oracko again converted to make the score 27-6. Late in the third pei-iod Meyer of Iowa intercepted a Tripucka pass and returned to the Irish 23. Several running plays and three DiMarco passes put the ball on the 1-foot line. From there DiMarco climaxed his dynamic afternoon by crossing the goal line with the ball on a sneak. The attempt at conversion was blocked, the final score was 27-12. 
The Panelli nightmare lasted the full afternoon, not merely on two plays. In all he carried the ball 12 times for 154 yards. On defense he joined with Marty Wendell and Jerry Groom in a linebacking job which will be long re­membered by the Hawkeyes. Groom appeared for the first time in' a Notre Dame uniform before a home crowd. He is from Des Moines, la. He did not disappoint anyone. He was in on most of the tackles made by the Irish and several times dropped the Hawkeye ball carriers for a loss. 
Statistically Notre Dame outdid the Hawkeyes, although the lowans had one more first down. They picked up six by rushing and nine through passes for a total of 15, while the Irish gained their 14 on the ground. The Irish lost 17 yards while Iowa lost 63. Three Irish passes were intercepted for 52 yards, while Notre Dame intercepted one for no yards. The Hawkeyes led on the punting average 35 yards per try to 28. Each team fumbled three times. Iowa lost the ball three times; the Irish lost it twice. Notre Dame kept leading the penalty parade with 80 yards lost on eight miscues. 
One of the lighter moments of the trip occurred in Daven­port where the team stayed Friday night. Coach Leahy and a group of his friends got caught in a faulty elevator and were locked in the cage suspended halfway above the lobby of the hotel for more than an hour. Quarterback Tripucka added a note of jest to the proceedings by asking, "What are you going to do now. Coach? Punt?" Coach Leahy was not available for comment after he was released. 
Wigktkm (83) and Spaniel (28) watch Gay hurdle Hawkeye 

Martin (38) attempts to bxeok Iowa clutch on Panelli (67) 
By Bob Leander 
Lincoln, Nebraska, Oct. 18.—^A hopelessly inept and in­adequate Cornhusker grid team this afternoon dug in and never gave up hope, but it didn't make any diiference — 38,000 fans saw the Irish of Frank Leahy wallop the home­towners, 44-13. Playing without their captain. Bill Fischer, guard John Frampton and backs Mike Swistowicz and Coy McGee, the Greenshirts found little difficulty with Nebraska either on the ground or in the air. The officials proved almost as troublesome as the Cornhuskers, failing to outgain the local athletes through penalty assessments against Notre Dame by only one yard, 170-171. The Nebraskans Avere penalized 25 yards. 
Winning the toss, Fischer retired to the sidelines with his dislocated elbow and watched his team take the kickoff on its own 20 and slam downfield for the opening score. Eed Sitko had the honor, going across from the eight. Steve Oracko booted his first and only point in three attempts this cloudy afternoon. The second Irish score hit the 'Huskers like a bolt of lightning. Bill Gay gathered in a Nebraska punt on his own eight and returned it to his 26-yard line. On the first play from scrimmage Pep Panelli split the left side of the line on a quick opener and shot 74 yards for six points. Oracko missed, the score stood 13-0 as the quarter ended. 
Frank Spaniel picked up great gobs of yardage to open the second quarter tut when the Notre Dame march stalled on Nebraska's 28 Tripucka faded and flipped to Bill Wight-kin in the and zone. Oracko missed again and was seen no more in that capacity. Tripucka assumed point after touch­down chores following the fourth ND score, which Jerry Groom set up with a pass interception deep in Cornhusker territory. The rugged Irish center was downed on the 26 at which point Bill Gay, Larry Coutra and Jack Landry teamed to cross the goalline with Landry packing the pig­skin the final seven yards. Bob Williams held for Tripucka whose placement was blocked. 
Twenty-five points behind, the 'Huskers recovered Lan­dry's fumble on the Notre Dame 23, 30 seconds remaining in the first half. Cletus Fischer, no kin of the Irish captain, sent the Nebraskans into their North Platte spread forma­tion which sprinkles the team lightly from one sideline stripe to the other. Fading for a pass, Fischer couldn't find a receiver and elected to run for the corner. He was knocked out of bounds on the one, 12 seconds left, enough 



Notre Dame: 44 Nebraska: 13 
"Notre Dame ran away from Nebraska and Cita­tion ran away with the Gold Cup. At the rate each is going they soon will be paired as an entry." Arthur Daley, New York Times. 
time for him to buck over center on the succeeding play. 
Bob Costello split the uprights and the score at halftime read 
Notre Dame 25, Nebraska 7. 
The Irish scored the first time they had possession of the ball in the second half, Panelli taking the kickoff to his 34, picking up a first down in two rushes, then blocking downfield as Sitko rocketed to the 'Husker 34, Again it was Panelli, this time down to the ten. Two plays later Sitko racked up his second TD on a four-yard run. Tripucka failed to convert, leaving the score 31-7, and there it stayed until late in the quarter when Bill Gay grabbed a pant by Nebraska's Frank CoUopy on his own 20 and, behind beau­tiful interference, romped to the 'Huskers' 13. Tripucka sent end Jim Martin into the end zone where he hit him with a bazooka-shot worth six points. The Irish quarterback was less accurate with his try for point. It was the fifth failure in six ND attempts. 
The Irish kicked off but CoUopy fumbled on his own 35, Larry Coutre recovering for Notre Dame. The quarter ended but second and third string subs continued the Green drive in the final frame. Seven plays were required before Coutre shook loose for a fourteen-yard touchdown jaunt. Tripucka reappeared and with Williams holding accounted for the 44th and last Irish point. 
Nebraska struggled on and finally in the waning minutes of the game planted the ball on the ND six before running out of downs. However, an Irish fumble on their two gave the 'Huskers another chance and they were prompt in ac­cepting. Cletus Fischer drove over center from his tailback slot giving Nebraska an added six points and a resounding 44-13 defeat as the gun sounded. 
-<s •.-> *-~ y-

mm 
PanelU (67) with Walsh (46) and lohnson (18) gains five Coutre (24) dives over for lost Irish touchdown 
Dec. 10, 1948 



Notre Dame: 41 Navy: 7 
By Joe Herrington 
"Notre Dame touchdowns crushed Navy's grid­iron fleet and the Middies sank to a 41 to 7 de­feat." Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune. 

Baltimore, Md., Oct. 30—Another great Notre Dame team seemed to find itself today, as the Irish bowled over hapless Havy 41 to 7 before 63,314 people in the newly-named Babe Ruth Stadium. 
It was the twenty-fourth straight win without defeat for Coach Leahy, and the game ijroduced the thirtieth consecu­tive quarter in which the Irish have scored. The score was the largest ever totalled against the Na\T^ by Notre Dame, marking the 17th Irish Anctory over the Middies who have won but four in the 22 game series. 
About 500 Notre Dame students were in the stands today, aftar riding all night from South Bend. The student trippers seemed happy, too, as they sat there watching their classmates open the second half of the season in a big way. Especially gratifying to them, was Emil Sitko's personal performance. The red-haired Hoosier carried the ball 17 times and gained 172 yards—^an average of over 10 yards per try. However, the Irish divided the scoring equally. Sitko, Pep Panelli, Bill Gay, Lank Smith, Frank Spaniel and Jack Landry all found their way into the Navj'^ end zone at various times during the afternoon. 
As soon as Jliddy McCully kicked into the end zone, to­day's march was on. And there was no brain nor brawn to stop the Irish. After three running plays and a Tripucka pass to Gay, Sitko ran 55 yards to the Navy three. The "Tank" carried again for the goal and Oracko's kick was good. Less than three minutes had gone by when the first score came. 
The sailors roared back for three straight first downs, but Horn fumbled at midfield. The hard attack let loose again. 
Tripucka passed to Hart who lateraled to Sitko for 18. Sitko carried again for 11 before Panelli followed his interference for 18 yards and the second Irish touchdown. Steve Oracko's conversion attempt was good and the Irish led 14 to 0 at the end of the first quarter. 
After a series of four fumbles, which passed the ball back and forth between the two teams, the Irish backs march­ed to Navy's three. Sitko doing most of the running. Tri­pucka passed on first down to Gay for another Irish marker. Oracko made it three in a row. 
Just three plays later, Baysinger fumbled on his own 25 and H. Lee Hope's bandboys got out the music to the Victory March again. A Williams lateral to Smith, plus Oracko's fourth point after touchdown, was all that was needed to boost the score to the half-time total of 28 to 0. 
A group of second and third stringers came in at Frank Leahy's request, and they managed to hold the Na^-y pass­ing attack to a rather fruitless effort for the rest of the half. Spaniel stopped all threats by intercepting a Baysinger aerial as the gun banged. 
The second half opened just as the first had closed—with Navy passing. The Middies got down to Notre Dame's 16, bui Larry Coutre got in the way of a Horn pass and carried the ball to his own 40. 
Although the Irish were halted twice, bounding Billy Gay ran another Horn pass interception for a touchdown, only to have it called back. Another score was nullified because of a holding penalty, but Frank Spaniel took a back pass from Bob Williams to score on a six-yard dash. Oracko converted again. 
A beautiful punt by Baysinger that dribbled out of bounds on the Notre Dame 2 led to the only Middy score. Williams kicked to the Irish 36, and "Pistol Pete" Williams scored five plays later for Navy. Drew's kick was good. 
Ernie Zalajski came into the game late in the last quarter to test his knee, and the South Bender helped Spaniel and Landry score the sixth Notre Dame touchdown. The trio alternated on runs until Landry pushed over the last six-pointer from the Navy one yard line. Oracko, the hard-luck kicker, missed a perfect day of converting as the Middies swept through the Irish reserves to block his try. 
In this, their only Eastern appearance, the Irish looked good. They managed to gain 363 yards by rushing and Tri­pucka and Bob Williams collaborated to complete nine passes out of 11 tries. Although playing a comparatively weak Navy team, Notre Dame impressed the student trippers and sports writers w^ith their bast game of the six game old season. 
McGehee (26) clears path for Coutre (24) Middies try to torpedo Sitko 
By Ralph Wright 
Bloomington, Ind., Nov. 6.—^After flexing their muscles at helpless Indiana for 30 minutes this afternoon, Notre Dame's rugged Irish spent the entire second half trying to look anemic as they took an effortless 42 to 6 win at muddy Memorial Stadium. 
None of the 34,000 onlookers doubted that Coach Frank Leahy could have stretched his victory margin to tremen­dous proportions had he so desired. Reaching its oifensive peak of the season, the Notre Dame varsity scored each of the five times it had the ball in the first half. In the second half, second and third stringers, throwing no passes and using only standard plays, outpointed the Hoosiers 7 to 6. 
Notre Dame crossed the goal line twice in the first quar­
ter three times in the second and once in the third. Tallying 
in the final period, Indiana gained further consolation by 
ending a streak of 33 consecutive quarters in which the 
Irish had scored. 
Once again the fast-starting Emil Sitko sparked the first 
touchdown drive. The chunky halfback bolted over from 23 
yards out to finish an 81-yard surge, and Steve Oracko's 
first of six perfect placements gave the visitors a 7 to 0 lead 
after six minutes and 45 seconds. 
But^the Irish were more awed by their power than were the Hoosiers for John McDonnell ran the ensuing kickofF 63 yards to the Irish seven-yard line. After four downs, how­ever, Indiana gave the ball back to Notre Dame on the 30, and a 70-yard march accounted for touchdown No. 2. Sling­shot Frank Tripucka threw to Bill Gay on the 15, and, three plays later. Jack Landry scored from the three. 
The third touchdown was the play of the day. Taking 
his favorite pitch-out from Tripucka, John Panelli rambled 
51 yards with Hoosiers falling like dominoes from crashing 
downfield blocks. "Pep" got by the last two men on his 
own; he bumped past one and side-stepped the other. 
To add a little variety, Tripucka unlimbered his passing 
arm for the next two tallies. He tossed a payoff pass to 
Bill Wightkin that covered 45 yards, and hit Bill Gay in 

the end zone on a play that started on the home team 20. 
The latter was a stop-and-go pass with Gay faking the de­
fensive left half right out of the stadium. 
Subs took over in the second half with Baltimore Bob Williams in charge. Landry and Frank Spaniel starred in a 71-yard march that ended when the former barged across from the one. Seeing that Leahy had ordered no more passes, Indiana employed an eight-man line and a close secondary to shut out the invaders the rest of the way. 
Dormant Indiana fans had their chance to howl late in the fourth quarter as Del Russell ran and passed brilliantly in a 77-yard move to pay dirt. With the Irish line growing ferocidus, Russell jump-passed to Joe Bartkiewicz who was lying in the end zone. 
In a great all-around offensive performance, the running of Panelli and Sitko and Tripucka's passing stood out. No one man could be singled out in the fine Irish line play. 
For Indiana, the ever-dangerous George Taliaferro, hob­bled by a bad knee, still showed plenty of class and Russell was an able sub in the tailback spot. South Benders Sam Winston, Jerry Morrical, Slug Witucki and John Goldsbei'ry were valiant in the outmanned Hoosier line. 
Lank Smith also produced one of the game's top thrills. After fielding a punt on his own five-yard line, he raced up the south sideline to the 20 where he encountered a thunder­ing herd of Hoosier tacklers. Undaunted, Lank reversed his field and ran back into the end zone and up the north sideline to the 40-yard line where he was pulled down from behind. His escort of blockers was more of a hindrance than an aid 


Notre Dame: 42 Indiana: 6 
"Certainly no efficiency expert could have found fault with the first team's work. Notre Dame had the ball on five occasions in the first half and scored five touchdowns."—i. E. O'Brien, Indian­apolis News. 
in this jaunt which covered some 135 yards for a net gain of only 35. 
In taking their seventh 1948 win, their 19th straight and their 25th without a defeat, Notre Dame rolled along for 436 yards to Indiana's 136. It was the schedule-ruined Hoo­siers' fifth straight setback; they won their first two games. Both Sitko and Fullback Hai-ry Jagade of Indiana suffered injuries that may limit their action the rest of the season. 
Hoosiers drag Landry down after a short gain 
Smith (20) and Cotter (51) stop Indiana advance 
Dec. 10, 1948 
. ^^^,^.^ ^.• T'TT''*/ \' 
•M>^^. 


, '[y^h'^, 
'\ >K • 
^iO 
»ft*r^ :?^- v;-^^-L-J.vV-'i-l 



t^^. ^' ^ 

V '5 
---i.,'
£0^^MS^M^!S^lf?lli^^^il^^^i^5^ 

game this year. He had plenty of help from Jack Landry and Bill Gay who brilliantly sparked the winning last quarter 
drive and from Frank Tripucka whose faking and ball-hand­

Notre Dame: 12 

ling wei-e phenomenal. Ultimately, however, the game was 

Northwestern: 7 
By Tom McNally 
"For nine minutes and 55 seconds of a bruising battle of power-packed backfields and crashing lines, Notre Dame's string of consecutive victories tottered on the brink of destruction," Dick Hack­enberg, Chicago Sun-Times. 

Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 13—59,305 frenzied fans saw the football machines of Notre Dame and Northwestern clash in a wild and thrilling battle today with the Irish finally tri­umphing, 12-7. Nothing was held back this cold, gray after­noon ; both teams displayed every trick in their bag and every block and tackle was a rib-rattler. 
Art Murakowski furnished the thrills for the Wildcat supporters. Li\ing up to his reputation, the big fullback was a menace all day but it was his third quarter antics that marked the high-water mark of Northwestern hopes. With Notre Dame threatening to score their second touch­down, Murakowski picked off a flat pass by Frank Tripucka and scampered 90 yards for a game tying score. 
But not even Murakowski could match the all-round ex­cellence of the Irish backs. Although hampered by the absence of Sitko, Panelli and S\\istowicz for the greater part of the game, the Ramblers netted 309 yards through the rugged Northwestern line. Terry Brennan regained his posi­tion as bread and butter man of the Irish attack, picking up 78 yards in 12 smashes and hitting harder than in any other 
Xr 

decided "up front" where a great Notre Dame line led by Bill Fischer, Marty Wendell and Leon Hart out-manned Captain Alex Sarkisian and his Northwestern crew. 
First quarter fireworks were quickly ignited by the Wild­cats. Losing the ball only momentarily they marched to the Notre Dame nine yard line. Then, with fourth down and less than a yard to go for a first down, the Irish line held and a Notre Dame offensive was underway. Brennan broke through for 22 yards and Panelli and Swistowicz pounded to the Wild­Cat's 21 yard line. Two plays later Haxi; bulled' his way 13 yards to the one yard line on an end-around play. Panelli punched over for the first score. Oracko missed the extra point. 
Refusing to give up, Northwestern struck back with a drive deep into Irish territory, but twice they were stopped cold in the vicinity of the 30 yard line. With 15 seconds to play in the fii-st half, Frank Tripucka and Bob Williams both appeared in the same Notre Dame backfield for some last second sleight-of- hand that almost caught Northwestern nap­ping. Williams took a direct pass from center and threw a long pass downfield to Brennan who was finally downed on the Wildcat 45 yard line as the half ended. 
The Irish running game functioned brilliantly in the second half but an alert Northwestern pass defense stymied them three times. First Murakowski intercepted a pass, then Worthington snagged one and then Murakowski again. Only this time he could not be stopped before he had sprinted 90 yards for a touchdown and tied the score. Jim Farrar kicked the extra point and Northwestern was suddenly ahead, 7-6, with little more than a quarter remaining. 
With the pressure on and the game hinging on every play the Fighting Irish bounced back with the game winning touchdown. One counterattack ended with a fumble on the Northwestern 31 but the setback was only temporary. With 
the ball on their own 37 Notre Dame began an attack unexcelled for shear power. Bill Gay and Jack Landry took turns blasting the Wildcat line for five or 10 yards until, 63 yards later. Bill Gay dove over for the score. That was the ball game. 
Faced with a five-point deficit Northwestern could produce nothing against a stiffened Irish defense while Notre Dame appeared to be touchdown-bound on two different occasions. Both times, however, their scoring threats fizzled when Steve Oracko's field goal at­tempts were %vide of the mark. 
NW  STATISTICS  ND  
10  First downs  18  
101  Yards gained rushing  .  308  
14  Passes  attempted  10  
4  Passes  completed  4  
65  Yards gained passing  ...  61  
4  Passes  intercepted by  ...  1  
60  Yards all kicks returne d  52  
90  Yards  lost — penalties  ...  . 95  

Gene Kessler, Chicago Sun-Times: "Notre Dame has the greatest running attack in college football and that goes 
for Michigan, too." 
Smith pulls down Murakowski as Hart (82) and McGehee (26) move in 
By Bob Stock 

Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 27.—Frank Leahy unwrapped a nice, shiny new rivalry for his boys this afternoon and then watched them proceed to get it all scratched up. Scoring in evei'y period and making the whole thing look awfully easy, the Irish horde smeared the "Washington Huskies, 46-0. 
Washington was strictly no match in its iirst meeting with ND. The game brought a sad ending to a doleful sea­son for Howie Odell, the Huskies' new coach. For Leahy it meant another opportunity to test next year's material, and test it he did, as second, third, and fourth stringers paraded in and out all afternoon. Almost everybody but the managers and the strangely vanished Clashmore Mike saw some action. 
Pep Panelli, Terry Brennan, Leon Hart, Bill Wightkin,* Bill Gay, and Jack Landry, and Steva Oracko all contrib­uted to the scoring in various ways. Panelli, Hai-t, Gay and Landry ran across a touchdown each; Brennan, Hart, and Wightkin each caught a TD pass from Frank Tripucka; and Oracko booted the four extra points. 
Odell's only consolation was his team's spunky comeback after a disastrous first quarter, which saw the Irish pile up 25 points before their 50,000 followers had even got them­selves seated in the concrete oval. The Huskies never quit; indeed, Washington back Dick King made the most thrilling play of the game in the second quarter when he raced back to recover a bad pass from center and got off a beautiful punt before the charging Notre Dame forwards could lay a hand on him. The crowd, by the way, was the first below-capacity throng to witness an ND game in many moons. 
A bad case of fumbles gripped Washington in that first quarter, much as they did Tulane last year. Four times the Huskies fumbled, and four times the Irish seized the ball and romped away with it. Washington's first fielding error came shortly after the kickoff when McCullough dropped a punt from Bobby Williams. Bill Fischer's considerable bulk immediately covered the ball on Washington's 24-yard line. Panelli went for 13 and then wriggled through the middle for the first score. A few minutes later Biddle fumbled and tackle Ed Hudak recovered on the 31. After making six yards on a plunge by Panelli and losing five on an offside penalty, the Irish scored again, this time on a 30-yard pass from Tripucka to Brennan, off by himself in the end zone. 
Washington fumbled again right after the kickoff, and Jerry Groom recovered on the Huskies' 36. Once again 



Notre Dame: 46 Washington: 0 
".. . a riotous occasion on which the lambs were led up, laughing and scratching, one by one, to be dealt with as the executioners chose."— Mike Donohue, Seattle Post-intelligencer. 
Panelli rammed through the line, making 17 yards before the Washingtons could knock him down. To add a little variety, Leon Hart was assigned to score the touchdown. The big right end took the ball on an end-around and crashed through the whole Washington team for the final 19 yards. Washington's fourth fumble was recovered by Fred Wallner on the 36. The Irish lost five yards for backs in motion, but Tripucka's pass to Hart was good for another. 
In the second quarter the Huskies committed yet another fumble, and Frank Gaul recovered it on their 14. Brennan made seven and Tripucka pitched to Wightkin for the fifth Irish TD. The sixth and seventh came one each in the third and fourth periods. The sixth was mostly the work of Bill Gay. The Chicago flash returned a punt 26 yards to the Washington 44, broke through on a quick-opener to the six, and then scored three plays later on a plunge from the one. Landry finished up the afternoon's work with a 30­yard bolt through center after a 10-yard Washington punt. 
In an experimental mood, Leahy had Emil Sitko attempt the first two extra points and Gay the third. Neither was exceptionally successful at the task; in fact, one of Sitko's kicks barely got off the grpund. After that, old more-or-less­reliable Steve Oracko did the footwork without a miss. 
Running a close second to King's punt in crowd appeal was Gay's slick 50-yard broken-field run in the third quarter. Somebody finally dragged him down after nearly all the Washington players took a shot at him. . . . The game was the last home appearance for a number of the Irish, includ­ing Tripucka, Brennan, Panelli, Fischer, Gaul, Marty Wen­dell, Bill Walsh Jack Fallon and Ted Budynkiewicz. The graduating gridders were honored at the pre-game rally last night. 
Kirby (32) bats ball out of Wightkin's grasp Panelli (67) rolls over Husky defenders 
Dec 10, 1948 
Notre Dame was the first to score, but not until a bruis­
ing scoreless first quarter had expired in which a determined Trojan line refused to give ground. The score came on the 
Notre Dame: 14 third play of the second frame as Frank Tripucka hit Leon 


Southern Cal: 14 
By Harry Monahan 
"It was a great day for the Irish. It was a great day for the Trojans. It was a great day for west coast football, it was a great day for all football." Dick Hyland, Los Angeles Times. 

Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 4.—As spectacular as the earth­quake that followed it, was the inspired play of the Southern California Trojans today in battling the vaunted Irish grid machine to a 14-14 tie. The 'quake's rumble was a mere whisper against the roar of Trojan throats when their eleven seized a 14-7 lead with less than thi^e minutes of the game remaining. But Irish voices drowned out both as an aroused Notre Dame eleven, blocking and running with the ferocity that is the trademark of Notre Dame football, smashed 
through the Trojan defenders to tie the score in the last 4-5 seconds. 
Billy Gay brought the 100,000 spectators in the Memorial Coliseum to their feet and Notre Dame back into the ball game with an 87-yard runback of the kick-off following Southern California's second tally in the foui-th quarter. Four plays later Emil Sitko scored when pass interference against the Trojans moved the ball to the one-yard line. The throng breathlessly watched Steve Oracko split the uprights Avith the tying point. 
As the final gun sounded seconds later, Notre Dame was firing aerials in all directions trying to salvage victory fol­lo%ving the Irish recovery of their own kick-oif. But the clock stopped their drive as effectively as the Trojan for­wards had done previously. 
An epidemic of fumbles attacked a nonnally immune Irish squad and gave Southern California six opportunities to score the upset of the yeaj-. Only a stonewall Irish de­fense prevented these bobbles from being Trojan scores. 
Hart with a pass on the Trojan 35 and Hart lumbered through and over the defendei's to crash into the end zone. The first of Oracko's game-saving conversions was true. 
In the same period the alert Trojans pounced on Gay's fumble on the Irish 34. They passed and bucked to the one, only to lose the ball on downs. Notre Dame exhausted the few seconds remaining in the half by a succession of ground plays. But their delaying tactics were costly as Tripucka was injured in a pile-up on the last play and did not see action for the rest of the game. His signal calling duties fell on sophomore Bob Williams. 
Southern California took the second-half kick-off and drove to the Irish 23 only to lose the ball again to the stub­born Irish forwards on downs. A Notre Dame scoring threat was foiled by Sitko's fumble on the Troy 21 that was recovered by Jeff Cravath's maroon-shii-ted eleven. Gay re­hearsed his brilliant fourth-pei'iod run by taking one of Don Doll's punts on the Irish 41 and running it back to the Trojan 18, but a clipping penalty on the Irish 46 nullified his efforts. Another Irish drive was halted ty Jack Kirby's interception of one of Williams' aerials. 
Kii'by snatched the pass on his own 42 and wasn't headed until he hit the Irish 42. Dean Dill and Kirby passed and ran it to the Irish 15 as the quarter ended. Four plays later Bill Jlartin scored from the two and Dill made the crucial convei'sion. 
After an exchange of punts the battling Trojan eleven took over on the Irish 42 once again. It was Kirby and Dill once more with Martin crashing through to put Southern California in the lead with less than thi^e minutes of play remaining. Dill's second conversion was good. 
On the ensuing kick-off the Irish proved they were en­titled to tr-;;' title of FIGHTING IRISH as grim green-shirted blockers mowed down the onrushing Trojans to break Gay into the clear. Here was the precision and neck-rattling blocking that blasted Notre Dame to national crowns and was a crashing climax to Notre Dame's third consecutive undefeated season. 
Number one man for the Irish was sophomore Bill Gay. California spectators will remember his name along with Sitko and Livingstone of 1947 fame. 
Southern Col's Dill stopped on the three Bi,U Gay (22) bucks way for 15 yards as Cifelli (80) leads interference—Photos by Acme 
All American 

Selections SPLINTERS 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Ends Dick Rifenburg, Michigan Barney Poole, Mississippi Tackles Leo Nomellini, Minnesota BILL FISCHER, Notre Dame Guards Paul Burris, Oklahoma 
Rod Franz, California Center Charles Bednarik, Pennsylvania Backs Bobby Stuart, Army 
Doak Walker, So. Methodist Charlie Justice, No. Carolina Art Murakowski, N'western 
Second Team Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame Third Team End LEON HART, Notre Dame 
AP All-Midwest End LEON HART, Notre Dame Guard BILL FISCHER, Notre Dame Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame 
UNITED PRESS 
Ends LEON HART, Notre Dame Dick Rifenburg, Michigan Tackles Al Wistert, Michigan Leo Nomellini, Minnesota Guards BILL FISCHER, Notre Dame 
Paul Burris, Oklahoma Center Charles Bednarik, Pennsylvania Backs Stan Heath, Nevada 
Doak Walker, So. Methodist Charlie Justice, No. Carolina Jack Jensen, California 
Second Team Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame 
COLLIER'S Guard MARTY WENDELL, Notre Dame 
CENTRAL PRESS End LEON HART, Notre Dame Guard BILL FISCHER, Notre Dame 
SPORTING NEWS End LEON HART, Notre Dame Guard BILL FISCHER, Notre Dame Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE ALL-MIDWEST End LEON HART, Notre Dame Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame 
LOOK MAGAZINE Tackle LEON HART, Noti^ Dame Back EMIL SITKO, Notre Dame Second Team Guard MARTY WENDELL, Notre Dame Third Team End JIM MARTIN, Notre Dame 

from the Press Box 
By Harry Menahan 
They Ain't Human 3 Midwest, 3 Southwest, 1 West. What publishers won't do to keep their cus­
Take a large piece of paper and make tomers The double quarterback went a note of every time in the last ten under the microscopes of the experts re­years that the newspapers have printed cently and they decided that Williams the words "They were 'up' for Notre and Tripucka had been all thumbs when Dame." If there is anything that key­they used it against Purdue. Where were notes Irish athletics it is the number of you guys while the game was going on, Notre Dame opponents who have thrown gorging yourselves on Charlie's hot the record book away and played the dogs? We remember seeing the Purdue best game of the season against the secondary searching through the firstIrish. 
three rows of box seats for the ball. . . . 
Recently Coach Frank Leahy com­History repeats: It was a Trojan squad 
mented to us that the opposition never that snapped Rockne's winning streak in 
lived up to the scouting reports. They 1931 — the same record that Leahy's 
weren't human by the time they took the lads broke this year with their win over 
field against Notre Dame. He shook Washington, but couldn't increase, 
his head sadly when he contemplated thanks to another inspired Trojan 
what a task it is to prepare an attack eleven. 
to meet this emotional angle in football. 
How many teams record a "success­The Sportsman ful" season if they have tied, beaten or 
given a good fight to Notre Dame, re­There is only one man responsible for gardless of what the rest of their season the disappointing fact that Notre Dame may have been? Northwestern is one did not win the 1948 national grid 
and Southern California follows the crown. That man is Prank Leahy. sap-.e pattern. Needless to say both He deliberately shackled the power of teams were "successful" this season. the Notre Dame squad when it was 
ready to bury some hapless opponent Despite the attacks of the cjmics who under a humiliating score. He grounded decry the death of the old "college the Irish aerial attack and then re­spirit," this season has found the dope­stricted the ground game to three or four sters caught with their parlay cards basic plays — no reverses, no trickery — down as inspired underdog elevens have and in the end we lost the battle of com­fought their favored opponents to a parative scores. 
standstill, some even to upset wins. Yes, Frank Leahy, in a display of 
These same dopesters have failed to sportsmanship which will have few give these inspired teams the credit that equals in collegiate athletics, kept his is due them. Purdue fought like demons; powerful Irish eleven from turning sev­the Irish were criticized, the Boilermak­eral games into ludicrous track meets. 
ers weren't praised. Another fighting It was a strange strategy for the man squad was credited with a lot of luck, but who was going to get that championship it wasn't a lucky Michigan State team by any means in order to use it as awe saw; it was another squad of fight­wedge for a fabulous pro contract (Mr. 
ers. Iowa, Northwestern and Southern Rice, please note). 
California gave the Irish three encores of spirited action. 
But it wasn't strange for a ' man 
Well, if the press won't give them trained in the Notre Dame code of credit there is one group that does — sportsmanship under the ablest teacher the Notre Dame eleven. Other teams 
of them all — Rockne. We know who just ain't human when they meet Notre has the best college team in the country and until the other claimants press their 
Dame. challenge on the gridiron "any Satur­day, any season" we recognize only one 
Musings at Season's End 
champion — the team with the coach Try this ratio on the next AU-Amer-who puts sportsmanship above personal ican selection you see: 2 East, 2 Sou.th, laurels. 
Dec. 10, 1948 



"T" for TOUCHDOWN 
Every Day, All Day, Every Week Perfectionist Leahy Lives Football 
By Greg Halpin 

The dressing room finally emptied. Sportswriters had departed with a final word of congratulations. Trainers were prompt to treat any players who had been injured, while the other members of the squad had quickly ducked into the showers, as quickly dressed, and hurried out to meet relatives and friends for the evening's celebration. The coach had circulated through the milling young­sters with a word of praise here, a note of advice there, and even a joking rebuke to his quarterback. 
But now the last locker had been slammed shut and the coach was alone. With barely a glance around the empty room he opened the door and walked briskly to his car where his wife waited to drive him home. Coach Frank Leahy's "lads" had won another football game in Notre Dame stadium and now he was going home to enjoy the few remaining free moments of the week end with his family. 
It was no accident that the Leahy team won this afternoon. They won because their coach had planned it that way. In six years at Notre Dame he has de­veloped a science of football. Each game is a great challenge and he has become both scientist and conqueror. Was that victory No. 49 or 50? No matter, he would check the Sunday paper. His Irish teams have only been beaten three times, while four games haA^e seen the honors divided by a tie. This remarkable record makes the coach of the Irish the best in the business. 
Because he is the best in his business 
—
 a perfectionist if there ever was one 

—
 sportswriters frequently misconstrue his words and are ready to ship the coach off to the professional leagues. But Leahy is content at Notre Dame. He says, "I will stay here as long as the school officials wish me to remain." 


Frank Leahy is a short-sighted man. That is one of the reasons why his teams win football games. He can't see beyond the next ball game and such concentra­tion is a guarantee that his opponent will have a full afternoon on Saturday. 
This afternoon's game wasn't won in just the brief 60 minutes of play in the stadium. That was only the climax of a careful plot which had its opening chapter wi-itten early the pi'evious Mon­day morning. 
At about 10 o'clock that Monday morn­ing Coach Leahy had called his scouts into his crowded two room suite of offices in Breen-Phillips Hall. To the mentor they carried what to him was a paper more important than the Bill of Eights —the scouting report on next Saturday's opponent. 
For two hours the foe's weaknesses and strengths were scrutinized until it was time to go to the Law Building auditorium for the daily meeting with the team. For the second time that day the scouts gave their report, augmented by diagrams of the opponent's plays. The team would get practical work in solving those plays in scrimmage later in the day. 
Tuesday morning presented the coach with more mail to answer when he arrived at 8 o'clock. The postmarks on the envelopes give ample evidence of the nationwide diffusion of the Notre Dame 
"I wonder if that play will work?" ^ "Fred, tell Francis no more passes" 
The Scholastic 

"It's a pleasure to coach such lads ... " 
subway alumni. Among them were the inevitable ticket requests as well as letters from well-wishers. His players dropped in for short talks, the coach is always ready to give the boys any assist­ance he can. 
Lunch for the Irish mentor was a simple meal, with his desk quickly con­verted into a lunch counter when he felt the need of a sandwich and some hot coffee. Before practice in the afternoon he talked to any of the sportswriters who happened to be in town to watch the Irish prep for the week end's tilt. 
Serious scrimmage work got started Wednesday afternoon and Coach Leahy was among the first on Cartier Field at 3 o'clock. On the practice field he is a tireless supervisor. He roams from group to group as the gridiron gadfly giving each a small hint, working the kinks out of their play. During the entire after­noon, scrimmage or fundamental drills, his quiet penetrating voice with its pecu­liar twang, sing songs its sharp criticism. 
He always calls his players by their first names. So it's, "John lad, not enough drive, John." Or, "Douglas, keep your head vip and move that left leg in more —about two inches." No detail is too small to escape his attention.' 
The whole coaching staff meets at 7 o'clock each evening to analyze the re­sults of the day's practice and to shape Saturday's strategy. If these meetings were particvilarly long, Coach Leahy did not make the South Shore ride to his Long Beach home, but spent the evening in the quarters reserved for him on campus. 
The well-ordered routine of the oifice of the director of athletics is broken at his South Bend home and doesn't arrive until the 12:30 meeting of the team. 
The nation's sportswriters and radio men invaded the campus on Friday and the coach had a full scale press con­ference in the Rockne lounge at 1:30. Despite his natural pessimism, Leahy is candid and open with the wi-itei-s. Before the Purdue game this year, he unveiled for them the new double quarterback formation so they wouldn't be caught short when he displayed his current grid trickery. Practice that afternoon was light, just signal drills in the secrecy of the stadium. 
The vaunted Notre Dame spirit re­ceived vocal manifestation in the Field-house Friday night as the band and stu­dent body combined to give the team a roaring salute. Coach Leahy was on hand to give his cautious prediction. Radio shows and alumni smokers may have crowded the remainder of the coach's evening. He was lucky if he finally got to bed by 1 o'clock Saturday morning. 
Notre Dame's eleven gathered in the Dillon Hall chapel early Saturday morn­ing and their coach was ^v1th them. After receiving Holy Communion he joined them at breakfast in the Dining Hall. The dressing room started to fill at 11:00, shortly before Coach Leahy arrived. At 12:40 he sent his green-shirted crew out for the pre-game wann­up. Back in the dressing room at 1:10, 
"Yes, I said any Saturday" 

the head man spoke quietly to them about the game, the plan for the day, and their chances of victory. At 1:2.5 he sent them out to the final test of the week's plan­ning and work. 
But now, as he and his wife Flossie drive homeward in the autumnal dusk, he can relax. The week of careful planning has culminated in another victory. There is no need to wony about pass defense, downfield blocking, or the timing of his precision T-formation backfield, not to­night—no, not until Monday morning. 
every Thursday. Coach Leahy usually A few free minutes with Susan Marie, Frank, Jr., Florence. lerry. visits his brother Jack who is bedridden Mrs. Leahy and James Patrick 
Dec. 10, 1948 don of manager-sentries at Cai-tier Field or to get hotel accommodations. 

DATELINE : Notre Dame, Indiana 
By TOM McNALLY 

Shortly before game-time he puffs up the steep steps to the press box looking like a tired businessman steeled for a hard day at the office. At the top he pushes past half the population of Sportsdom, squirms into an undersized chair and plops his portable typewriter down on the twenty-four inches of writ­ing surface allotted to him. If he has time he thumbs through the free pro­gram, checks the stai-ting lineups, rolls 
a piece of paper into his machine and 
settles down to work. For football is his 
job. 

His name might be Carmichael, Pow­
ers, Ward or just Joe Gluck of the Walla 
Walla Gazette, but he's one of the na­
tion's sports scribes assembled in the No­
tre Dame press box, the country's 
largest, and he's here to tell the readers 
personally about the latest Leahy ma­
nuever. 

Manipulator of this super-colossal pro­duction is Charlie Callahan, director of sports information, and a Notre Dame grad of 1938. On football afternoons his job's about as quiet as a speech by Vi­shinsky; even the pre\aous week's activ­ities in his Grand Central Station office in Breen-Phillips pale by comparison. 
Before the press swarms in to its sta­dium accommodations, Charlie's staff has had to solve a hundred vexing problems —in their cluttered cubbyhole in Breen-Phillips Hall. Charlie and his secretary. Miss Maura Mills, have prepared the seating allotment for the game—assign­ing broadcast booths as well as making certain that the reporter and his tele­grapher are seated side-by-side. Some­times it takes desperate measures to keep Charlie in the office long enough to get this task done. Locking the doors or hiding his hat have proved to be the best remedies—^he can't get out in one case and ivo7i't go out in the other. 
His student assistants, Jim Butz and Jack Kennedy, are in charge of the dip­lomacy depai-tment. In addition to an­swering the hundreds of mail inquiries, they are a trouble-shooting duo to help the visiting writers get through the cor­
From one until six Charlie races up and down the length of the press box like a runaway halfback, shaking hands and making sure everybody's happy. He sees very little of the game—^lae button­holes one of his corps of assistants every so often to find out what the score is. 
Here's a partial account of his ram­blings: sees that the statisticians and the press box public address announcer are organized; makes sure the electrical setup and Western Union facilities are buzzing; greets visiting celebrities and makes them feel at home; checks on his henchmen in the mimeograph office; roams around the quartez-s of the radio, television, and newsreel people. 
After the game he rounds up the mem­bers of the working press and conducts them on a tour through the team dress­ing room where they can get the players' account of the game and a statement from Coach Leahy. When the newsmen want to leave, Callahan has his O\\TI fleet of cars and drivers to take them to the hotels and railroad stations. For those who remain behind to A\n-ite their stories he keeps a large jug of hot coffee handy. Charlie figures this last act does more to promote goodwill than any other single measure. 
But the pride and joy of the Callahan innovations is a super-efficient mimeo­graph room. A list of substitutions and scoring is printed and being distributed 60 seconds after the final gun. Six min­utes after that the final totals of the sta­tisticians are being distributed. That's rapid-fii'e efficiency. 
In fact, rapid fire efficiency is the key­note of Callahan's organization. That's why the Notre Dame press box is one of the finest in the country. 

Ticket Manager Cahill and Publicitor Callahcm The Press Box With a Full House 
Lesko 1 14 0 0 Zmijewski 0 0 1 5 
Landry 1 10 0 0 Groom 0 0 1 2

Statistics 

Spaniel  1  3  2  33  
L. Smith  0  0  3  37  61  770  16  198  
RUSHING  S\vistowicz 0  0  1  5  
Times  Yds.  
Carried  Gained  Avg.  
Hart  4  39  9.8  
Wightkin .. Panelli  4 92  32 692  8.0 7.5  
Spaniel .... L. Smith .. Gay  24 4 64  174 28 382  7.3 7.0 6.0  '^  Tyfo iMngS mty  
BrennanSitko   ..  48 129  284 742  5.9 5.8  \  
Coutre  27  152  5.6  
Zalejski  ....  7  34  4.9  
Swistowicz  41  172  4.2  
Landry  ....  80  309  3.9  
McKillip  ..  26  96  3.7  
Cotter  9  33  3.7  
Wallner  ....  11  37  3.1  
McGee  2  5  2.5  
Williams  ..  6  11  1.9  
Martin  5  0  0.0  
Tripucka  ..  16  -28  —1.7  
599  3194  5.3  
SCORING  This is a blind date. Note the  
Sitko Panelli Landry Oracko Hart Gay WightkinSpaniel   ...  TD 9 8 6 0 5 4 3 2  PAT &FG0 0 0 *29 0 0 0 0  Points 54 48 36 *31 30 24 18 12  Gnu Look, Exclusively hers. Don^t shudder. How do you look to her? It's a cinch to look mighty sharp tvhen tvearing a handsome "Manhattan"'' repp tie.  I• 
L. Smith ....  2  0  12  
Brennan  ...  2  0  12  
Coutre  2  0  12  
S^v^sot^vicz  2  0  12  
McKillip  ....  1  0  6  
Martin  1  0  6  
Zmijewski  1  0  6  
Tripucka  ..  0  1  1  
48 ^Includes one field goal.  *30  320  zf» This is a "Manhattan'''  repp  tie.  
PASSING  Comes in a multitude  of distinctive  stripings  
TD  Yds  exclusively" "Manhattan."  Knots  uithoul  
Att.  Comp. Passes Passes  Pet.  slipping.  Resists  wrinkles.  See these  
Tripucka  91  53  11  660  .582  fine  repps and other outstanding  "Manhattan"  
Williams  14  8  0  110  .571  neckwear at your favorite  men's shop today.  
105  61  11  770  .581  CAMPUS  FAVORITE  
Yds.  Intrepid  Intrcptn  
Reo'd  Gained  By  Ret'd.  
Hart  16  231  0  0  
Martin  14  98  0  0  
Gay  10  131  6  74  THE  MANHATTAN  SHIRT  COMPANY  
Sitko  7  70  0  0  
Brennan  5  102  1  1  Coor. I94a The Manhattan Shirt Co.  
Wightkin  4  112  0  0  
Coutre  2  —1  1  41  

Dec. 10, 1948 ' 

Muscle Magician 
Trainer Burns Guards Tape and Bandages 
By JIM BUTZ 

America's sporting public was well aware that Notre Dame was the team of the year in 1947 — that Johnny Lu-jack was the player of the year in 1947 
— that Frank Leahy was the coach of the year in 1947 — but how many of them knew that Notre Dame completed its sweep of the collegiate field by hav­ing Trainer Hugh Burns named as Trainer of the Year? 
The genial Mr. Burns, in his third year as chief trainer of the Fighting Irish, was accorded the top honor in his profession. The result this j'ear is that his handsome Irish features are adorn­ing many magazines, stating that "Hugh Burns has switched to pasteur­ized milk because it is the diet of champions." 
Nowhere in the land is thei-e a more hardworking custodian of tape and bandages than Hugh Burns. Despite his heavy duties he still takes time out to tell the latest jokes and pass the time of day with anj'one who will listen. Hughie still claims that Ziggie Czarob­ski got most of his jokes while listening to Hugh expound as he taped ankles and wrists. 
Born in Seattle, Wash., on July 3, 1916, Hugh and the Burns family moved to Michigan City, Ind., shortly there­after. At St. Mary's High School Notre Dame's future trainer was a baseball, football and basketball ace — abilities which he still will display on occasion. 
In 1935 he transferred his talents to Notre Dame and spent his final three years as student assistant to "Scrap­iron" Young, famed Irish trainer. After graduation, Hugh studied orthopedic work in New York, then he moved to Chicago's St. Francis de Sales high where he reorganized their physical edu­cation department. 
In 1941 he became head trainer and football backfield coach at Xavier Uni­versity in Cincinnati. Came the Avar and an 18-month hitch in the Marines before a medical discharge sent him back to Cincinnati where he took over the head football and basketball coach­ing duties at Eoger Bacon high. Xavier had discontinued athletics for the dura­tion. 
In January, 1945, when Young left his Notre Dame job, the Irish hired Mr. Burns, and he has since been the head man for all seven of Notre Dame's inter­collegiate athletic squads — football, bas­ketball, baseball, track, golf, tennis and fencing. 
A typical day finds Hughie boarding the South Shore in Michigan City, where he still resides, and arriving at work in his Stadium room at 9 a.m. After sort­ing through his mail (usually a post­card from his wife asking him to drop by the house when he gets a chance), our hero rolls up his sleeves and goes to work. 
Any of the injured athletes who might 
Bowler Hugh rolls a strike 
require special treatment are taken care of during their open hours in the morning. Often a student with a bum leg, elbow or charley-horse drops in, and Hughie will give him the same ex­pert treatment dished out to the Sitkos, O'Sheas and Brennans. 
Three days a week Hugh teaches a class at 11 a.m. on the Treatment and Prevention of Athletic Injuries. The class has a high Hooper rating among Physical Education majors, but Hugh says he is as stern in class as he is outside. 

The noon hour is spent playing hand­ball in the Old Gym and spreading cheer through the Athletic Department in Breen-Phillips Hall. From 1:30 until 6 
p.m. Hugh is hard at work again in his Stadium room, preparing our gladiators for the rigors of practice and soothing the injuries of those who are forced out 

Hughie reads the comics to his kids . and examines the knee of a hopeful 
m// 

* --""^ «^ ^ 3n :L 7_ 9,10 .-^5 ^i 33. • 
59^49^24^e8 # 5^ 3^^ 21131 ^76 §47 -33 ^8 ^t) 5^ 
/^ 8 14 • 88 ' 73 58 ^B- 46 37 80 38 97' 30 
LEFT TO RIGHT, FIRST ROW: F. Tripucka. E. Silko, L, Hart. F. Gaul. M. WendeU. Captain BiU Kscher. W, Walsh. T. Brennan. A. Cifelli, 
J. Marlin. R. Espenan and L. Smith. SECOND ROW: E, Madden (manager). J. Dailer, C. McGee, E. Smith, H. Lolly, S. Oracko, W. Flynn. 
A. Lesko. J. Mahoney. P. Schwartz. F. Wallner, G. Brickson. R. Nolan (manager). THIRD HOW: A. Zmijewski, E. Hudak, L. Coutre. F. Spaniel. B. Higgins. J. Jeifers. T. Saggau. J. Connor. Joseph Fallon, V. Ste. Marie, J. Helwig, G. Dickson, F. Johnson. J. Groom. FOURTH ROW: R. Michaud (manager), D. Waybright, W. Grothaus. W. Wightkin. P. Yanoschik. L Landry. I. Soisson, G. Begley. H. Williams. W. Whiteside, L. Pearson. L. McKillip. R. Jonardi. J. Frampton. E. Zolejski, T. Budynkiewicz. FIFTH ROW. T. Hohnes. C. Feigel. E. Cie­chanowicz, M. Swistowicz. T. Huber. T, Carter, P. Cantwell, R. Cotter, J. Murphy, F. Polmisano, John Foilon. 
of contact work for one reason or an­
other. 
After a South Shore ride back to 

Michigan City, Hugh stops by his home 
at Stop 18, Long Beach, Ind., long 
enough to eat and say hello to his fam­
ily. Two nights a week he bowls in a 
Michigan City league, and he is consid­
ered as one of the finest bowlers in the 
country by some experts (the Burns 
family). In his own words, "I will chal­
INVESTMENTS
lenge any girl on the campus to a three-
game match." If she throws overhand. 
In addition to his wife, Mary Elaine, 
Hughie devotes much of his spare time ALBERT McGANN 
to his three children, Michael Patrick, 
SECURITIES COMPANY 
four; Daniel Shamus, three; and Susan 
INCORPORATED 
Eileen, 18 months. 
Because he is a man who has been around athletes and athletics all his life, 131 WEST WASHINGTON AVENUE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA it is no wonder that Hughie's favorite 
Telephone 4-1101. A. T. & T. Teletype S. Bd . 15 
tale is of football. It occurred on the Notre Dame practice field in early fall, 1946. The Irish squad was coming onto the field by twos and threes prior to starting their work for the day. 
Hughie was out on the field tossing 
Congrafulafions fo the Team 
a ball back and forth with Johnny Lu-jack, Irish All-American quartei'back ace. Coach Leahy stepped through the Cai-tier Field entrance, surveyed the Headquarters for scene and stopped when he saw Hugh (whose back was to Leahy) throwing Books, Stationery, THE BOOK SHOP the ball. 
Fountain Pens 130 North Michigan 
As he sank to his knees in happy de­lirium, Leahy was heai'd to whisper-, "Angelo — Angelo — you're back!!!" 
Dec. 10, 1948 
equipment—^the value of which is ap­
proximately $60,000. McAllister's chief aide during the past 

$60,000 Waterboys 
season has been Ed Madden, associate 
Managers Bob Michaud, Dick Nolon and Ed Madden 
grey-haired Celt disdains publicity of By TOM ADAMS any sort. To Mac the 1948 season is no 
John W. (Mac) McAllister is in his different from any other. He prefers to twenty-fifth year as superintendent of be left alone during the fall months to equipment at Noti'e Dame. No fanfare his responsible job of supervising the marks the occasion, for the slightly-built, handling of Notre Dame's football 
Waited' 

French Dry Cleaners 
Main Office 2209 Smith Street SPECIAL BRANCH OFHCE FOR CONVENIENCE OF NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
at 822 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 

facing Notre Dame Avenue Pockets, zippers and all repairs reasonably done. 
four Transporfafion One Way, Boys! 
Open Friday evenings, 7:30 to 9:30 

I. W. LOWER COMPANY 
128 N. MICHIGAN ST. 
PAINTING CONTRACTORS 

WALL PAPER ARTISTS' SUPPLIES PICTURE FRAMING PAINTS 
manager of football. Ed hails from Pittsburgh, Fa., and is a senior major­ing in business administration. Ed's job during the week is caring for the foot­ball equipment to be used in practice and Saturday's game. This is no simple task, for in the equipment rooms there are over 300 pairs of shoes and enough uniforms to outfit 125 players. After each game the uniforms are shipped to the campus dry cleaning establishment to be made ready for the following week's game. 
The scrappy play of Emil Sitko this year is attested to by the fact that the Fort Wayne Flash used a total of six jerseys in the seven games preceding the Norchwestern encounter. Capt. Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell have also displayed a flair for wrecking jerseys. 
Accompanying the team on trains, Madden's many duties are increased. Among them are the packing and un­packing of twenty trunks containing necessary equipment, and the safe trans­portation of Trainer Hughie Burns' supplies. In addition, he has charge of twenty-five cases of spring watei-, each containing six half-gallon bottles which must be distributed and collected on the train, on the practice field, at the game and at the hotel. This precaution is taken in order that squad members are not taken ill by a change in drinking water. 
The coveted job of manager of foot­ball is held this year by capable Dick Nolan from Greenwich, Conn. A senior majoring in marketing, Dick finds it necessary to spend an average of six hours a day, performing the tasks re­quired of him. He is not only in charge of football, but is also head of the entire student managers' organization. 
Nolan's responsibilities are too nu­merous to mention. He does everjrthing from greeting visiting teams and aiding them in every way during their stay in South Bend, when Notre Dame is playing at home, to keeping accurate accounts of the weights of varsity squad members. While on the road, Nolan handles all the problems which arise. An example of his efficiency was exhibited in Baltimore before the Navy game. Steve Oracko, Notre Dame's point - after - touchdown specialist, discovered after his arrival at Babe Ruth Stadium that he had left his specially constructed shoes in his hotel room. A police escort was commandeered to bring the shoes to the stadium. Oracko proffered his gratitude by converting five of six place-kicks. 
Manager Nolan's office is in the west 
vving of the Fieldhouse. It is a beehive of activity from the time he arrives from the noon meetings of the squad to the time he closes up shop in the evening. 
Francis ana ^era CMaoicnii 
He is responsible for the smooth running 
of the practice sessions as well as making preparations for trips. This is no mean task, but Dick performs it well. 
Personable Bob Michaud, an embry­onic lawyer from Claremont, N. H., is associate manager of football in charge of team personnel. Like Nolan and Mad­den, Michaud rose from the ranks in the student managers organization to attain his present position. 
Michaud has the job of keeping current lists of squad personnel, checking attend­ance at practices and noon meetings, and keeping accounts of injuries for the bene­fit of Coach Leahy. On trips Bob must notify players of all party movements, assign them to Pullman berths and hotel rooms, and arrange for dinners and transportation. Such minute but im­portant details as tipping waiters and porters and handling the complaints by the members of the party are left to Michaud. 
Michaud recalls the morning in Daven­port, la., when the squad was leaving for the Iowa game and several players were conspicuously absent. He rushed to their hotel room to discover them engi"ossed in a bridge game, oblivious to the time of departure. A quick trip to the station was engineered by Michaud, much to the regret of Iowa pai'tisans. 
The jobs of the student managers are neither glamorous nor soft. They re­quire patience, initiative, willingness, scholastic proficiency and industry. But the memories of trips to Baltimore, Pitts­burgh, and sunny California, agree Messrs, Nolan, Madden and Michaud, are well worth the headaches that go with the job. 
PHOTO CRED-TS 

Page 10, Hipp; IL Munger; 12. South Bend TRIBUNE; 13. Brogan; 14 and 15. ND Photo; 16. ND Photo; 17 through 24. Sen­yczko; 25. Ferstel; 26. (top) Munger, (bot­tom) Kunkle; 27. Eunkle; 28. (left) Mc­Laughlin, (right) Hipp; 29. Hipp; 30. Mc­Laughlin; 31. Ferstel; 32. McLaughlin: 33. Senyczko; 34 and 35. Harlan; 36. Harlan; 
37. Munger; 38. Acme; 40. International News: 41 (upper left) ND SCHOLASTIC, (others) International News; 42. (upper left) Munger. (lower left) Ferstel. (lower right) Munger; 44. Gorman: 45. ND Photo: 46, Gorman; 48. Munger; 52, (upper left) Harlan, (lower left) Hipp, (lower right) Munger; 53, (upper) Harlan, (lower) Gor­man. 
Week-end story, pp. 52-53. written by A, J. Scriba. 
It's TOWN CLUB 
NABICHT'S 
for the 

A famous stfeak FINEST and chop house with Notre Dame men for 
in 
many years. 
FOOD 
115 WEST CENTER 
J^oe Criabicni's 

CHICKEN-IN-THE-ROUGH 
For Luncheon or Dinner 
11 a. rn. to 8 p. «. Closed Mondays 
Fish, Sioaks, Chops and Chicken 
213 NORTH MAIN 
Gnaries OXaDicnfs 

MARY ANN 
DRIVE-IN 
Sandwiches, Sodas, Malts, French Fries and Chili 

Open 7 days a week— 11a. m. fo 12 p, m. 
1711 SOUTH MICHIGAN 

Souln. CBeuffs (Jlaeil Cjaterinq ^amili/' 
Dec. 10, 1948 


Green Material Grows on Carrier 
By RALPH WRIGHT 
Prep stars of 1947, accustomed to cheering fans and compliments from the press box, served their apprenticeship in college football this fall with no fan­fare and few kind words. Some of them found big-time football too tough, but others showed promise of greatness at schools where All-State reputations are as common as philosophy books. 
Most of Notre Dame's freshman grid­ders took in stride the big step from high school to college ball. Last year ^he Frosh gave Frank L«ahy stars like Jerry Groom, Bob Williams, Jack Landry and Fred Wallnei-. Still it is safe to say that the 1948 first year men will be making even bigger contributions to the varsity next fall. 
The team is "representative" outside of its football ability. Sixty-odd players, coming from all directions, represent 18 states and the District of Columbia. As usual, Chicago sent a lot of talent, 15 men coming from the Windy City. Only four of the Frosh call Indiana home with South Bend having but one aspirant. 
The task of making college players out of high school players went to Frosh Coach Ben Sheridan, an ND scatback of a decade ago who returned to the cam­pus in September. He was assisted by Dick Friend, Bill Vangen and Edward "Babe" Voorde, all former varsity ijer­foi'mers whose action was curtailed by injuries. 
It is difficult to spot individuals from the muddy green jerseys on Cartier. Field. Throughout the season, Coach Sheridan had no "first team" to indicate 
outstanding jDrospects, but the grapevine 
has marked some names for stardom. 
When anyone. Coach Sheridan includ­ed, talks of linemen he never fails to mention Bob (Tony) Toneff, a 238-pound bruiser fi'om Barberton, 0. The agile tackle had varsity coaches sweating the way he manhandled their backs in scrim­mage sessions. Another defensive stand­out is Paul Burns, who, along with Frank Johnston, look best among the guards. 
Groom, Grothaus and Jeffers can take care of center next year, but Byron Boji is a fellow who shouldn't be kept out of action. Jim Hamby looks good too. At the end spots, Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski could be another Hart-Martin duo. And Bob Kapish, a high school teammate of Toneff, can hold his own with all of them. 
Last season the Fi'osh came up with a super T-man in Bob Williams. Now they have topnotch quarterbacks Tom O'Con­nell and Tony Eados. Fullback aces ai'e Sam Abbott, Joe Capi-ara and Del "Goose" Gander. Abbott, who with Ea­dos rates tops among the punters, came the farthest—Vallejo, Calif.—^to play for Notre Dame. Caprara lives in Turtle Creek, Pa., home of Leon Hart. A ram­bling speedster. Gander should be the fastest Irish fullback in years. 
There are "Gazelle Boys" at halfback too. Dave Flood lost by only a foot to Mel Patton when the famous sprinter ran 100 yards in 9.5 seconds. Yet some say that fleet John Petitbon, highly-publicized Louisianan, is even faster than Flood.- Petitbon can do more than nin; 
he's a defensive back along the lines of 
Lujack and Ashbaugh. A scooting frag­
ment from Chicago's Fenwick High, Bill 
Barrett, may outshine the rest. 

Many of the squadmen, like Jean Butz and Bob Benson, were out with injuries a good share of the time. Others were just starting to hit their stride late in the season. Although a lot of the fresh­men will struggle through the "ham­burger" stage in 1949, this Frosh team is destined for bigger things. 
Ends—Dick Basgall, Bob Benson, Floyd Blair, Pat Conway, Bob Dol­metsch, Tom Fannon, Don Huml, Bob Kapish, Ted Krzus, Terry Logan, Jim Mutscheller, Chet Ostrowski, Eddie Perv, Joe Eiley and Art Skinner. 
Tackles—Fred Banicki, Jack Daut,­Pat Doherty, Frank Fox, Dan Hipskind, Bob Toneff, John Zancha and Claude Zweber. 
Guards—Paul Burns, Tom Caito, Frank Johnston, Marty Kiousis, Art Perry and Tony Zambroski. 
Centers—Jim Bartlett, Byron Boji, John Calkins, Jim Hamby and Dick Weiler. 
Quarterbacks—Dick Balka, Chuck De-Prekel, Jay Gebert, Jack George, John Mazur, Tom O'Connell and Tony Eados. 
Halfbacks—Bill Barrett, Frank Bley­er, Jim Bollas, Bob Boiler, Jean Butz, Aaron Dyson, Dave Flood, Bob Hasse, Bill Hovey, Fi-ank Jones, Elmer Layden, Jerry Ledwidge, Dan Mahrt and John Petitbon. 
Fullbacks—Sam Abbott, Fred Brans-field. Joe Bush, Joe Caprara, Del Gand­er, Ernie Knapik and Dave Koch. 
Hard charging frosh linemen loom big in Leahy's plans for next season 
The Scholastic 

DILLON HALL CHAMPIONS 
LEFT TO RIGHT, KNEELING: Coach Jack McMahon. B. Nester. L. Eikmeyer. T. McNally. D. CoUetti. G. Swisher. O. Celusta, 
L. Sutter. J. Barnard. STANDING: P. Lane, P. Hanifin. R. McDovid. W. Lyden. S. Quigley. S. Solo­mon, J. McGroder, J. Machinchick, R. Doherty. R. Chambers. 
Interhall Football 
By RUDY UNGER 

Notre Dame is widely heralded foi its great varsity football team, but football at Notre Dame doesn't stop there. For all the students on the campus who wish to do so, a chance is provided to partici­pate in interhall football. 
The league is divided into East and West divisions. All 13 residence halls and Vetville are eligible. This season five teams entered each division. The West teams were: Dillon, Howard, Alum­ni, Lyons, and Morrissey; in the East: Cavanaugh, Zahm, St. Edward's, Farley, and Walsh. 
Dillon and Cavanaugh, the two pre­season favorites came through unde­feated, to win the title in their respective divisions. Neither team was scored 
victor and great credit to the vanquished. The first half foiind Dillon's line matched against Cavanaugh's passing. Neither side could put on a sustained drive and at the half it was a scoreless tie. The second half was a different story. Dillon power got going and moved down the field and tallied. The score came on a pass covering 50 yards, the play going from Lane to Pat Hanifin. Hanifin 
caught the ball on the 15 and ran the rest of the way. McGroder's attempt for the extra point was wide. 
Cavanaugh opened up a drive. Paul Schlaffley broke into the clear and gal­loped 40 yards before being pulled down from behind by "Bo" Nester on the Dillon 20. They pushed to the 5 where the thmst died as Dillon recovered a Cavanaugh fumble. Cavanaugh's Jinuny DriscoH broke through on the first play after the fumble and hit Dillon's ball carrier behind the goal for a safety, making the score 6 to 2 and giving giving Coach McMahon's boys victory and the title. 
For fhe Best in Sporfing Goods if's 
RECO'S 

upon during the regular season's play. 
On Sunday, November 21, the two powers, Dillon and Cavanaugh, had it out. It was a rough, hard fought, cleanly played game with glory to the 
113 N. Main Street 
Look for the log front 

Dec. 10, 1948 
It's neir! It's on aU our 

fan HeDsen Shiiis 
'"Comfort Contour^ collar styling! 
X •• Slopes low fo-.' youthful appearance. 
i6« Lies flat for day ^ong neatness. 
O Contour cut for extra comfort. 

Here's "Comfort Contour'^—greatest improvement in collar styling in years! It's a new low-setting collar that looks more youthful— Btays neater—feels better. It's on all Van Heusen Shirts—in every collar model—along with Van Heusen's many other quality features. Sanforized—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! 
9050 . M95 . 9^9S 
Monday Store Hours: Noon 'til 8:30 
Rasmnssen 
MEN'S SHOP 

106-108 So. Main St. 130-132 W. Washington 
TEAM STATISTICS 
10 Games 

Notre Dame Opponents 
153 First downs 112 3194* Yards gained rushing 1036 105 Passes attempt-ad 216 61 Passes completed 86 770 Yards gained passing 1013 
16  Passes  intercepted by  13  
904  Yards  all kicks returned  1265  
20  0pp. fumbles  recovered  —.  20  

842 Yards lost by penalties 

* Breaks all-time Notre Dame rush­ing record of 3137 yards set in the 10­game schedule of 1943. 
ALL-OPPONENT TEAM 
End McKenzie, Iowa 
End Heck, Purdue 
Tackle Karras, Purdue 
Tackle Kay, Iowa 
Guard Grothus, Iowa 
Guard ***** 
Center Novak, Nebraska 
Quarter DiMarco, Iowa 
Half Doll, Southern California 
Half Szulborski, Purdue 
Full Murakowski, Northwestern 

* For the other guard position, Hor­vath, Purdue; Witucki, Indiana; Hem­stad, Washington, and R. Hunt, of Navy, tied with nine votes each. Doll, Szulborski and Novak are repeaters from 1947. 
CHRISTMAS CARDS 
Use Our GIFT WRAPPING 
Service 
Let us give your packages The Santa Claus Look! 
BUSINESS SYSTEMS 126 S. Main 
III 
CHRISTMAS CARDS 

ND 142—.AMERICAN MEDICAL 0 
-We Quit!' Shouted Sad. Weary Gridders As Irish Roiled Up Record 27 Touchdowns 
(Reprinted fa-om the SCHOLASTIC of Oct. 8,1H8) 
"That looks good anyway. Rather re­

lieves the feeling after the Wabash 
game." 
That's what the SCHOLASTIC of 1905 

had to say about one of the most in­
credible games in the history of football 
—Notre Dame vs. American Medical Col­
lege, Oct. 28, 1905. 
N. D. scored 27 touchdowns that wild weird afternoon, and but for the onset of total exhaustion and a midget-sized second half, might have piled up a dozen more. But SCHOLASTIC was unemotional in those days, and nobody got very excited when we beat American Medical, 142-0. 
Almost everyone, of course, has heard that score, but few know any details of the game—the bloodiest massacre ever committed by a Notre Dame team. 
For instance — all the scoring was done in only 33 minutes playing time. Linemen carted across 15 TD's, three more than the backs. Even with touch­downs counting for five points each, the total would have climbed much higher if 
N. D. hadn't missed 20 extra points—an all-time low in place-kicking. 
To keep the score from getting too stupendous, the debacle was cut to a little more than half the length of an ordinary game. (Army did the same thing during the war to maintain friend­ly relations with Villanova and the Mel­ville Torpedo Base, but the Cadets never slashed one that short.) The first half lasted 25 minutes, the second only eight. Score at half time was 111-0. 
American Medical was a total loss. Notre Dame backs romped up and down the field with practically no trouble at all. A slight sneer served to send the Medics tumbling on their faces. 
Finally the backs got tired of the whole business and let the! linemen score for a while. It was a lineman's dream, and they made the most of it. Dropping into backfield positions, the center and right end made three touchdowns each. The tackles and guards trotted over for two each, and the left end—^who must have been running on his hands—got one. 
Let the SCHOLASTIC of that era tell the story in its own unruffled way: 
". . , Although the Varsity had prac­tically no opposition, they certainly had to go some to run up one hundred and forty two points in thirty-three minutes 
Dec. 10, 1948 
of play. One hundred and forty-two is plenty, but had we kicked even a fair percentage of goals we would have twenty more points." 
"We were in good shape after the light work of the week before, and the men played the fastest game they have put up this year. The team work show­ed an improvement. . . . On defense we had no chance to show what we could do as the Medics fumbled or mixed their signals so that they never gained an inch, in fact, lost ground every time they had the ball. ... 
"The game as a whole was a poor ex­hibition of football as it was played by only one team; the. others simply filled in space. From two to four plays was all that was required for a touchdown. The most noticeable feature of the game was the speed of all, but especially the men who were drawn out of the line to carry the ball." 
The New York Stin had a few funny cracks to make, too. 
".. . The total distance gained by Notre Dame is not given, but experts figure out that Notre Dame rushed the ball a million miles to one inch for the other side. All point-a-minute perform­ances were put in the shade. . . . Yost's hurry-up system is now a mere tortoise. .. . it is said the play was so fast that the only time the spectators saw the 
players was before the game and between halves." American Medical neve r played Notre Dame again.—Boh Stock 
HOLIDAY 
An Adventure in / Geod Smolung 
"So many want Dr, GnAmm Pipes this Christmas, !**• eome to see yam PrmStnmka them mysdf* 
Ne Breal[iig h NeBite Ne Bif ter Teste 
,-SEB 
flttPn-SmotsJ 
qs*. $^. 13s* • 15ft ^ 
m fiMnw PvE COL iML Maw H ML 

The floodlights over muddy Cartier Field clicked off late on the rainy Thursday night before the Northwestern game. Panelli and Martin rubbed the mud off their hands as they walked slowly into the showers through the misty drizzle. The whole squad strag­gled in through the puddles—dead beat after the last hard practice before the big game. 
Frank Leahy tossed his soaked parka to a manager and sagged gratefully into a chaii". 
Hughie Burns stuffed his field kit of tape, liniment, and bandages into a locker. He glanced at his watch, six — and very dark outside. On the way home he thought about Sitko's bruised ribs, Swistowicz's bad back, the knees 
Football 
Week End 
and ankles of Zalejski, Brennan, and Fischer. 
Ninety miles away in Evanston Northwestern's captain, Alex Sarkisian, thudded his 225 pounds of knotty muscle against a dressing room locker and sat thinking about the coming aft­ernoon in South Bend. When Aschen­brenner and Sawle came by, shrugging into jackets, Alex joined them and the three Avent out into the misty night. It was raining in Evanston, too. 
In the South Shore terminal at Ran­dolph street in Chicago, Charlie Swain, the chief dispatcher, worked late over the extra train schedule for Saturday. There was going to be an aAvful rush. 
Jake, the big Dutchman on the beer truck, banged the last case into the cooler at Sweeney's and stopped to light a cigarette. Sam the bartender talked to him a while. Then Sam went out front to swab down the bar and think about the coming Saturday night pan­demonium. 
Out at Notre Dame, in Badin Hall, Ralph Bruneau sat ci-oss-legged on the floor dabbing the last touches of paint to the hall's decoration scheme. 
All over the middle west the tele­phones were busy. South Bend was whirring with preparations. Students were planning. Players were worrying. 
At eleven the clock in SacredChurch chimed the hour, andDame went to bed.   Heart  Notre  
The Crowds Came  
With  Friday  the great  influx  began.  

" "' •^lix-^^i'5'?|C ^^^.^.- • ..^v 

A CHEEB BINGS OUT FBOM THE ST. MABY'S SECTION CBOWDS SUBGE ON THE DINING HALL 
The Scholastic 

'AH day the trickle grew until by night and the pep rally it was a river of eager people. At seven-thirty the old gymnasium absorbed the mobs and the big week end really took off with wall-shaking cheers and pungent speech. 
Father Tom Brennan set off the big show and Bill Fischer, Frank Tripucka, "Moose" Krause, and Frank Leahy fol­lowed up. "We'll win tomorrow!" nut­shells the speeches — but it would take a tremendous nutshell to hold the roar­ing students, the booming band, and the zooming confidence of the noisy horde that poured out at eight-thirty. 
Loaded with adrenalin, the swarm 

split into groups, couples, and singles 
and scattered. 
Out in the press room of the stadium 

Peter Micklosh pushed his broom around 
the dusty desks a last time and went 
out to catch a late bus home. He didn't 
have to work again till Sunday and he 
felt good. 
Jim Jacobs in Farley hall chewed his 

fingernails long that night and pon­
dered his week's play of the Midwest 
parlay. Fourteen points to Northwest­
ern might be a lot of points. 
Decorations Galore 
On Saturday morning while students 

were gi-umbling through late class, the 
campus shuffled with curious feet. Every 
hall was decorated and every visitor had 
to see every hall's try. Farley had a 
barrage balloon, Dillon a triumphal 
arch. Alumni a big yellow steam-roller 
borrowed from a construction company. 
Through the morning hours camera 
shutters clicked like crickets in the grass. 
With noon the cafeteria, the Huddle, 

and the sandwich and coffee counters at 
the Drill Hall went down for the third 
time. The dining halls w«re rather 
empty. When Notre Dame plays a 
rough one, few Irishmen feel placid 
enough to eat. 
From twelve-thirty on all traffic 

surged out to the stadium for the kick­
off. At one-thirty it came, Notre Dame 
to Northwestern. For four quarters 
tension stayed tighter than a piano 
wire. 
Panelli plowed over guard late in the first period and things looked up. Play­ing got brutal until Murakowski thun­dered all the way on an intercepted pass. Then the play got murderous and an in­furiated Notre Dame smashed down the field sixty-five yards to score with Bill Gay swan-diving into the end zone. The howl of triumph from the student sec­tion shook the bricks. 
The game battered to the end in ter­rific fury. At the gun there was little noise. Teams and crowds were too ex­hausted to do anything but stumble 
NORTHWESTERN CHEERLEADERS LEAD THE WILDCAT TO DOOM 
It was probably as hard-fought a game as anyone there would ever see. 
Saturday night South Bend swirled with delayed rowdy celebration. Lights and noise stayed up late. 
The windy fall night settled down over a quiet Notre Dame. Little stirred but the leaves handspringing before the wind and scraps of torn programs. The vast stadium hulked black in the moon­light. Only a few lights glowed in the halls. The pushing force of the North­western week end was a very dead thing. 
On the Evanston-bound train Alex Sarkisian stared gloomilj through the steamy window. Burakowski and Day sat silently Hipping cards. The team car was a quiet place. 
At the Victory dance a braised and slowly happy Terry Brennan eased his girl through the crowds. 
At 2:50 ajn. Charley Swain flipped the cover of his train dispatch book in the South Shore terminal. Charley was pretty tired as his steps echoed down the empty ramp to the parking lot. 
A lot of people were pretty tired. 

away. ALUMNI STEAMROLLER ROLLS OVER WmDCAT 
Lee. lO, 1948 
HABERDASHERY FORMAL-WEAR RENTALS 
Notre Dame's AU-Time Record and Highlights 
For a smart, custom styled 
suit sensibly priced—come 
straight to us. 
We've just received many magnifi­cent new fabrics including that al­ways smart flannel in 36 patterns, the kind of fabric that makes looking for a suit an exciting, rather than a disappointing task. The/re not only handsome in "Man of Distinction" but they're custom made by Parker-Winterrowd — the suit that's made and cut to your individual taste in fabrics of your choice. Precision made suits are the same as our ready-made suits, $65 upward. 
Contact one of our campus representatives for further information. They are: Pete Francken, Tom Tierney, Tom McGuire, Mike Ivers, Jack Clynes, Gus Cifelli, and Max Gabreski. 

PARKER-WINTERROWD.Inc 
1151/2 N. Main Street 

READY-MADE SUITS AND COATS CUSTOM TAILORS 
In 59 seasons of football since 1887, Notre Dame teams have won 369 games, lost 77 and tied 29. 
Under the late Knute Eockne (1918-30), N.D. won 105, lost 12, tied 5. 
Under Heartly (Hunk) Anderson (1931­33), N.D. won 16, lost 9, tied 2. 
Under Elmer F. Layden (1934-40), N.D. won 47, lost 13, tied 3. 
Under Frank Leahy (1941-43-46-47), N.D. wort 41, lost 3, tied 4. 
Under Edward McKeever (1944), N.D. won 8, lost 2. 
Under Hugh Devore (1945), N.D. won 7, lost 2, tied 1. 
Biggest score for Notre Dame: 1905— Notre Dame, 142; American Med­ical, 0. 
Biggest score under Eockne: 1926— Notre Dame, 77; Beloit, 0. 
Biggest score under Layden: 1940— Notre Dame, 61; Carnegie Tech, 0. 1938—Notre Dame, 52; Kansas, 0. 
Biggest score under Anderson: 1932— •Notre Dame, 73; Haskell, 0. 1931— Notre Dame, 63; Drake, 0. 
Biggest score under Leahy: 1947—^Notre Dame, 59; Tulane, 6. 
Worst defeat, all time: 1944—^Army, 59; Notre Dame, 0. 
Worst defeat under Eockne: 1925 — Army, 27; Notre Dame, 0, 
Worst defeat under Anderson: 1933 — Purdue and So. California, 19 to 0. 
Worst defeat under Leahy: 1942—^Michi­gan, 32; Notre Dame, 20. 

Year Won Lost Tied Fear Won Lost Tied Yea/r Won Lost Tied Year Won Lost Tied 1887 0 1 0 1904 5 3 0 1919** 9 0 0 1934 6 3 0 1888 1 2 0 1905 5 4 0 1920** 9 0 0 1935 7 1 1 1889 1 0 0 1906 6 1 0 1921** 10 1 0 1936** 6 2 1 1892 1 0 1 1907 6 0 1 1922 8 1 1 1937** 6 2 1 1893 4 0 0 1908 8 1 0 1923 9 1 0 1938** 8 1 0 1894 3 2 1 1909 7 0 1 1924* 10 0 0 1939 7 2 0 1895 3 1 0 1910 4 1 1 1925 7 2 1 1940 7 2 0 1896 4 3 0 1911 6 0 2 1926 9 1 0 1941 8 0 1 1897 4 1 1 1912 7 0 0 1927 7 1 1 1942 7 2 2 1898 4 2 0 1913 7 0 0 1928 5 4 0 1943* 9 1 0 1899 6 3 1 1914 5 2 0 1929* 9 0 0 1944 8 2 0 1900 6 3 1 1915 7 1 0 1930* 10 0 0 1945 7 2 1 1901 8 1 1 1916 8 1 0 1931 6 2 1 1946* 8 0 1 1902 5 2 1 1917 6 1 1 1932 7 2 0 1947* 9 0 0 1903 8 0 1 1918 3 1 2 1933 3 5 1 
*National Champions **Westem Champions Totals 369 77 29 
f ^V^tttakethe^ fetetUS^wa*/
^oaj...I'll 
^^'*^ 

A \i rm1 
^^[^ANO MONE/Too/", Mi i fi •f w 
The "^NIGHTHAWK".. I a.m. Nightly..Only 4 hrs. 10min. 
TO 

NEW YORK 
/ COMPARE., .you'/f go by AIR; > 
Fare Time pfws tax 
ONE WAY 

$29 60 
FASTEST RAIL PULLMAN $44.10 16 hours 
FASTEST RAIL COACH $27.30 17 hours FOR RESERVED SEAf TICKEfS: 144 South Clark St« Ike Pali 
THE "NIGHTHAWK' $29.60 4fcrs.10aia. House, Stevens Hotel 
(All Fores Plus feaeral Tax) PHONE: DEARBORN 2-5711 ^^ or Your f ravel Ageat 
Caaifal 
AmUMKS 
AMERICA'S SECOND OtOEST AIRIINE . ; . SERVINe 70 CITIES OAIIV 
D«c. 10, 1948 
GIVE LEATHER FOR CHRISTMAS 
COMPLETE 
COLLECTION OF 
MEN'S AND LADIES 
LUGGAGE 
Gift Hems: 
•
 Billfolds 

•
 Traveling Clocks 

•
 Pipes 

•
 Cigarette Cases 


HAN^^INTZSCH 
138 N. Michigan St. 

TUXEDO RENTALS Formal for All Occasions 
To Rent and Sell All Sizes 
TUXEDOS FULL DRESS CUTAWAYS ACCESSORIES 
LOGAN'S 
107 N. Main Street Oliver Hotel 
Place Orders Early 

Ifs Adlefs 
for 
ARROW 
7^ aie^^­
ON THE QWNEIC... MKNMAN ( WSHWftlDII 
Hey, fellow! 
ARROW V/miB SHIRTS OXFORD AND BROADCLOTH 
["w^ 
/ 

We have on hand a nice selection of your favorite Arrow 
shirts in several collar models—button-down, spread, reg­
ular and short point. 
Don't forget—only Arrows have famous-for-fit Arrow collars, torso tapered Mitoga shape, the Sanforized label, meaning less than 1 % shrinkage, and anchored buttons. 
MAtM AT COkPAX 
-ARROW SHmS-
Two on the Fifty, 
PLEASE! 
By VERNE KELLEY 

The Fighting Irish of 1948 played be­fore nine sell-out crowds during the past football season. The man who was af­fected most by the string of capacity attendances was genial M. Eobert Cahill, ticket manager. From the day the ducats were put on sale until the last game had been played in California, Cahill was as busy as a one-armed coke vendor. Each year he fills all orders personally, there­by handling about 300,000 tickets an­nually. 
This year application blanks were mailed to alumni and 1947 season ticket holders on July 1. In order to get more alumni into better seats, a limit of two tickets per grad was enforced. This did not solve the problem, however, as mora orders than ever before poured in. 
Season ticket holders had until August 4 to place orders. The general sale opened August 1, but in the case of the Purdue and Northwestern games closed August 4. Sale for the Navy game played in Baltimore, which was restricted to alumni, parents of students and students themselves, was stopped July 31. 
Some away games such as Nebraska, Iowa and Indiana had necessarily short sales due to the limited allotment given to Notre Dame by opponents. These seats, in general, were taken by alumni. 
Boxes at the stadium are under a five-year plan or a year-to-year dis­tribution. Those under the former plan cannot be resold until 1951, the next turnover of the system. 
The largest crowd to watch the Irish this year was the 104,000 which saw the Green and Gold battle Southern Cali­fornia. The smallest was at Blooming­ton, Indiana, where some 30,000 sat through the on-and-off slight drizzle while Indiana was watching "the Irish backs go marching by." 
But of more interest was the new Stadium attendance record set at the Purdue game. The previous high of 
59.171 was broken as 59,343 fans cov­ered the concrete for the 28-27 thriller. The old mark was also broken at the Northwestern battle but it fell short by 39 persons of resetting the record. 
There were some humorous moments throughout the season, though. For in­stance, one woman wrote that she didn't care for 50-yard line seats. Could she please have two on the 70-yard line? 
Another man brought in two tickets (Continued on Page 60) 

Look to 
GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan Street 
for ARROWS 
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer. 
>V 

"DART" 
WHICH ARROW WHITE SHIRT DO yO\J PREFER? 
'DOUBLER SUSSEX'' 
Almost everyone has two or "three favorite Arrow v/hite shirt 
models in crisp Gordon oxford or snowy broadcloth. These and other models are now available at your favorite Arrow store. See them today! 
Broadcloth shirts from $3.65. Oxfords at $3.95. 
ARROW 
SHIRTS and TIES 
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS 
Dec. 10, 1948 ou wear an Elgin Watch with assur­
ance that it is superbly smart in its styling, for Elgins are acclaimed by "best dressed" men and women everywhere. But there's an inside story that will excite you too, just as it did Robert Montgomery. It's Elgin's exclusive DuraPower Main­spring. Here in the part that runs the watch is truly a history-making achievement. 
This miracle mainspring will never rust—and rust is the greatest cause of breakage. It will hold its "springi­ness" for a constant accuracy never before possible in any watch. Eliminated ate 99% of all repairs due to steel mainspring failures! 
The one who is buying a watch for you will appreci­ate a hint—"an £/^/« with the DuraPower symbol 'dp' on the dial." It's sure to be smartly styled. 
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.30 to $3000.00. Elgin De Luxe from $47.30 to $67.30. Other E/gins as low as $29.73. All of these prices include the Federal Tax. 
•Made ol "Elgiloy" metal. Patent pendine 
" ™ ^i 11 ^ riMED TO THE STARSI 
The Scholastic 
The genius oj America * to wear on your wrist 
HEAR tlGINb "2 MOURi Of STARS"THANKSGIVING DAY. NBC NETWORK 
Football Issue Sfaff 
NEWS STAFF 
John Armstrong Tom Kelley 
loe Bellon Jim Kingsley 
Bill Bradley Keith Klein Dan Brennan Joe Lang Bob Butler Al Laporte Jim Carrig Chas. Linsenmayei Jim Clark Tom McAnifl 
Walt Collins Dan McCarthy 
Joe Conlon Walt McGovem 
Frank Doyle Ed McGrath 
Dave DriscoU Lou Meece 
Joe Dukert Murray Powers 
Charles DuUea Dick Rosengarten 
Frank Haendler Dave Schoen 
John Janowski Roger Vorce 
Jack Ward 

FEATURE STAFF Lawrence Connor A. J. Scriba William Lyman Bill Sherman Verne Kelley 
SPORTS STAFF 

Tom Adams John Meaney Peter Brown Don Padgett Jim Butz Bill Riley Bill Delaney Frank Ronnenberg Jack Economou Bob Rubery Bob Leonder Rudy linger Tom McNally Jack Varley 
Look to 
Gilbert^s 
for 
Van Heusen 
GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan Street 

Ifs Adlefs 
for 
Van Heusen 
tH^ OM^­
V^V IHK ^N^K^IC^^ ••• H^vH^Vnlv ^ ^^W^^^BW^^M 
The one and only 
^^^1 
^ 
K 
.^wowc^-*"^ *>v-

The Oi«E HUNDRED §3.95. 
The FOUR HUIVDRED §4.95. 
This Van Heusen shirt has the most famous collar of them all. Van Heusen's patented, exclusive one-piece collar. Can't wilt or i«:inkle .. . needs no starch to look starched . . . stays neat all day. In white broadcloth, laborator)'-tested and Sanforized—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Other Van Heusen shirts 83.50, $3.95, §4.95. 
k You'll find college men's collar favorites in 
Van Heusen i. . 
the world's smartest UUJ-JL V%3 PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N. Y. 
"VAN HEUSEN" IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE 
Dec. 10, 1948 
Ticket Office 
(Continued from Page 57) 
5 

The Holiday Season Calls For ARROW Formals 
Wearing black tie? Wear the ARROW SHOREHAM! Probably the most popular dress shirt in Night Life. With semi-starched pleated bosom, and smart comfortable ARROW collar. . . $6.00. 
Wearing white tie? Wear the ARROW KIRK! Fully starched, with fancy pique bosom and cuffs. A two stud, neckband style $6.00 ARROW Dress ties $1.00 and $1.50 
Aden's Shop Main Floor 
ewelry 

to keep or to give away 
J^ 
126 N. MICHIGAN 
held together by scotch tape. His wife had noticed Frank Leahy's picture in the waste paper basket and upon inves­tigating noticed that it was the photo which appeared on the tickets. Their little girl had decided to cut up the precious cardboards and then dispose of them. The tickets were duplicated. 
There are times when tickets are du­plicated and resold. If a season ticket holder loses his tickets or has them stolen he can ask for duplicates. How­ever, the stolen tickets are usually resold to some unsuspecting person and all tickets must be honored since the buy­ers generally buy in good faith. Needless to say, this creates a vexing problem when two people have to sit in one seat. 

The help in the ticket oiBce stays on duty on all home-game Saturdays until 1 p.m. This rule is for people who need aid concerning a ticket problem. This fall a priest called long distance when his plane was grounded on its way from Texas. He told one of Mr. Cahill's workers his seat number and the ticket was duplicated and resold. 
Almost the same thing happened to a man in Chicago who missed his train. He called and his ticket was resold. The money for his ticket was refunded, sav­ing him a loss which he would have in­curred had he not called. 
Now that the football season is over, Mr. Cahill and his staflf focus their at­tention on the basketball crowds. Their immediate task: how to get 5,000 stu­dents into a gymnasium which holds only 3,000. 
Lovely Gifts for All the Family 
LIMITED QUANTITY 
Notre Dame Victory March 
Musical Powder Boxes 
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years 
^' BLOCK BROS. 
CGH viCHIGiN 4-WASHINGION 

Press Clippings 
PRE-SEASON 

Harry Grayson. (NEA): 
"If the Irish get over Purdue in the 

opener . . . which they should, their un­
beaten skein will total 28, instead of the 
present 18." 
Jim Costin, South Bend TRIBUNE: 
"The cameramen will have to hunt for 

someone to take Johnny Lujack's place, 
but they won't be alone in that chore. 
They'll find Frank Leahy doing the same 
thing." 
POST-PURDUE 

International News Service: 
"The blundering toe of one Stephen 

Oracko turned suddenly deadly in the 
gloaming today and that was the heart­
breaking difference as Notre Dame de­
feated Purdue." 
POST-PITTSBURGH 

Jack Henry. Pittsburgh SUN-TELEGRAPH: 
"Always opposed to massacres, the lenient Leahy did everything in his power to keep the score in check. For most of the game he employed unknown sophomores and abandoned his aerial attack during the entire second half." 
POST-MICHIGAN STATE 

George S. Alderton. 
Lansing STATE JOURNAL: 
"Michigan State college made a foot­ball game out of it against Notre Dame, but Irish might and manpower pre­vailed." 
POST-NEBRASKA 

Warren Brown, 
Chicago HERALD-AMERICAN: 
"They scored in about every fashion there was, and if they had any deficien­cies it was in the matter of collecting extra points, or keeping out of the glare of the officials." 
POST-IOWA 

Pat Harmon. Cedar Rapids GAZETTE: 
"Other teams feel elated if they can string out an entire season of victories. Notre Dame, season after season, month after month, week after week, wins and wins and wins." 
POST-NAVY GranUand Rice, Baltimore SUNDAY SUN: "This Notre Dame team matches up with the best teams from the past." POST-INDIANA Wilfred Smith, Chicago TRIBUNE: 
"34,000 saw the game which was so unequal that any mid-week scrimmage by either would have been more interest­ing." 
POST-NORTHWESTERN Jim Costin, South Bend TRIBUNE: "The Notre Dame and Northwestern 
The 

RIGHT FLOWERS 
for the 

RIGHT OCCASION 
-. WILLIAMS, the FLORIST 
West of the Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149 
Would You Like 
Action Portraits 
of Notre Dame's 
Great Athletes? 

We can furnish pictures of such past and present Irish greats as Lujack, Fischer, the Four Horsennen, Sitko, Connor, and many more. Also team portraits. Just write or call! 
Bagby Studios 
n o Colfax Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana football teams terminated a 59-year rivalry . . . iri as savage a battle as this thrill-packed series has produced." 
Dec. 10, 1948 
Candies Cigcors ^^^H ^^^H Sundaes 
The 
Sodas " ' ^-^ *-^ *-^ "— "— Sandwiches 
on campus 

Radios ^^^^r ^^^^A ^^^^r Toiletries 
Lunches ^^ ^ Shakes Molts 
• 

Sollitt Construction Company 
INCORPORATED 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Qenefusl CoH<Uaoto/U 
1949 Football Tour 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
VS. 
NOTRE DAME 
at Seattle 
Plan Your 1949 Vacation Now! Leave September 25, 1949; 
Return October 4, 1949. Stop-overs! Canadian Rockies, 
Banff, Lake Louise, Mt. Eisenhower, Steamer Cruise from 
Vancouver to Seattle via Victoria, B. C., and many others. 
JOIN NOW - 1949 Football Saving Club 
At the American Trust Co., South Bend, Indiana. NOW OPEN. Payable September 1, 1949. In units of $100.00. Payable $2.00 weekly. You may take out as many units as you wish. For fiuther information write American Trust Co. 
WESTWARD HO! 

EARL J. "PETE" REDDEN 
GliTer HoteL South Bend. hcBaaa 

^&tMCC IS OUR MOTTO. •• 
• W complete crafts under one roof 
AHTWOKK • OFFSET • MsETTFHM^HFSS These Graphic Arts Departments enable us to better serve our clients in their printing needs 
^ 
erviee Printers TUttHtfm ^wUgMOA ji€in^€dt e<mmtnei<^e P^jtavis. 
211 SERVICE COURT • SOVTH RBNR, INRIANA 
J 
Dec. 10. 1948 
South Bend's 
BEST FOR REST 

Oliver LaSalle Hoffmann Jefferson 
The Hotel Association 

Surveys Prove 9 Out of 10 Women Prefer Men Who Wear Shoes 
^anU he ItaH-JnieUed ... 
Impress "Her" With Dr. Scholl Copeg Shoes | 
YOUR FEET WILL UKE THEM, TOO 
MNCMtf 
$13.95 

Dr. Scholl Foot Comfort Shop 
TELEPHONE 4-7471 215 WEST WASHINGTON 
Ideal Place to Find 
Those Christmas Gifts Which Demand the Catholic Touch 

Aquinas Library & Book Shop, Inc. 
110 E. LciSaUe 

CONGRATULATIONS! 
to the men of Notre Dame .. . the coaches! .. . the football team! .. . the student body! 
BROWSER WINNERS: 
Week of Nov. 21 to 27 Week of Nov. 28 to Dec. 4 
BOB HARMON. J. E. COURTNEY. 22! Farley Hall 428 Cavanaugh Hall 
MICHIGAN at WASfflNGTON 
Dec. 10, 1948 
TYPESETTING CORPORATION 

211 SERVICE COURT • PHONE 3-8609 • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
^M^toHt ^tfft/o^n/O^fiAif 
• PLANNED TO FIT YOUR EVERY NEED 
MONOTYPE • LINOTYPE • LAYOUT • COMPLETE MAKEUP • REPRODUCTION PROOFS 
VieYe e^Ot \\V«^ Z\^ ^Y\% XMl\ \0\\S 2RVT)ta[­
^obb 
GGG 
V»xO^ 
Socv e\^ 
Hickey Freeman 
...^
» 
^o^ »\c<^^ 

^\o^ >^^ M^
cG 

Arrow ^eg. Or 
GILBERT'S, One Man Tells 4nofher - 813-817 S. MICHIGAN, Open Evenings 
Dec. 10, 1948 

^^imt(^0. a^iHtd 0^ Good (Mee^ 
??#^^. ^, \ 13 
^•\
\ m­
/•* 
^l­

% ^.S£i 
% 
^m 
^ MesI#M I 
II w 

^^Mj^^^"^"^. A,p Carton^ , 
Cop} right 19 is, Liccrrr & MMR^ TOHACCO CO. 









