Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 74 Issue 11 13 December 1940 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 

Notre Danne Ends 1941 Grid Season With Seven Victories and Two Defeats 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish looked like a super-team as the Laydenmen coasted through niini defenses for 374 yards gained, 18 first downs and four touch­downs. The second stringers started the scoring in the first period with a "South Bend" pass from "Dippy" Evans to 
Steve Bagarus. A pass, Saggau to Juz­wik, was good for the second touchdown three plays after the first stringers en­tered the game. Piepul converted. Full­back Crimmins plunged over from the two-yard line for another six pointer. Johnny O'Brien completed the scoring when he converted the extra point after Juzwik's fourth period score. 
Notre Dame 7; Army 0 A great Notre Dame team lost most of its lustre as a greatly inspired Cadet eleven pushed them all over Yankee Sta­dium, outdoing them in everything but the scoring. Near the end of the first period Steve Juzwik snatched an in­tended Army touchdown pass out of the air on his own 19-yard line and streaked down the sideline, outstepping would be Cadet tacklers, to payoif territory. Cap­tain Piepul added the extra point and the Irish defense did the rest as Army racked up 16 first downs to four for the Irish, and out-gained the winners by 175 yards. Thus did Notre Dame gain her 20th victory of the 38-year-old series over "the weakest Army team in his­tory." Notre Dame 13; Navy 7 A fourth-down seven-yard run around end by Bob Saggau in the closing min-
Irish Score 168 Points to Their Opponents 67 
The 1940 football season is over. A Notre Dame team which had its good days and its bad ones has compiled the very respectable record of seven games won and two lost against typical Notre Dame opposition. 
This seven and two record cannot be the true story of the Notre Dame season for Coach Elmer Layden is but a mere shadow of himself. Layden has just seen a potential national championship team 

^ rise to the greatest heights only to be toppled by (you name it; we cant). The team, badly beaten, made a great comeback as "Fighting Irish" teams have a habit of doing and ended the season with flashes of former glory. 
Now on the long cold winter evenings to come. Coach Layden can sink down in his easy chair and reminisce on a season that produced one of the most ei'ratic of all Notre Dame teams. However, he won't rest long for there's another nine-game schedule coming up next fall and graduation as usual will take its toll. Re­placements will have to be found for such men as Bob Osterman, Tom Galla­gher, Johnny O'Brien, and Pete Kelly. But most of all, next year there won't be any "Moose." 
The following paragraphs briefly re­call to readers high-lights of the 1940 season. Coach Layden's seven-year rec­ord now stands at 47 wins, 13 losses, and 3 ties. 
Notre Dante 25; College of Pacific 7 
The 51st season of Notre Dame foot­ball opened with the 307th Irish victory. A great last half offensive show led by 

• Captain Milt Piepul broke a 7-7 half­time tie score and gave Notre Dame an 18-point victory. Right halfback Steve Juzwik scored the first Irish touchdown on a seven-yard smash through the Tiger line. Captain Piepul place-kicked the extra point. Reserve fullback Bernie Crimmins scored the winning points at the start of the third quarter; and the final period saw Piepul and Juzwik put the finishing touches to one of the worst defeats ever handed a Pacific team under Coach Alonzo Stagg, the grand old man of football. 
Notre Dame 26; Georgia Tech 20 
The Irish first team played only one quarter, the second, but that was enough. A pass. Bob Saggau to Bob Steve Juzwik converted and then fol­lowed by zigzagging 60 yards oif tackle to make the score 13-0. A few minutes later Bob Saggau swept right end for another touchdown. Captain Piepul con­verted to make the score 20-0. John Hancock, a third string Yellow Jacket back, took the ensuing kickofF on his own eight and charged 92 yards through the Irish defense for a Tech score. In the third quarter, substitute tackle Jim Brutz scored what proved to be the margin of victory of Notre Dame's 400th football game. Brutz recovered a blocked Tech kick and ambled over the goal line. 
Notre Dame 61; Carnegie Tech 0 

And the Irish backs went marching by—. A juggernaut of 67 blue and gold clad warriors relentlessly beat out a touchdown tattoo that completely over­whelmed a brave little crew of Tartans. Before the game was six minutes old, end Johnny O'Brien blocked a Tech punt and recovered to run 24 yards for a touchdown. It was Juzwik, and Piepul, and Piepul again, Crimmins thrice, and Lee twice before the adding machine took over and showed Coach Layden the largest Irish victory margin in his seven year regime as Notre Dame coach. 
Notre Dame 26; Illinois 0 For the fourth successive Saturday, 

Hargrave, was good for the initial score. 1937—N.D. 51-Kansas 0; but that season was spoiled too. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
utes gave Notre Dame her sixth straight win as the Irish wer'e again outplayed in every respect but the scoring. Notre Dame took a six-point lead in the first quarter when Bob Saggau faded back from the Na\'y- 32 and sailed a long pass to left end Bob Dove in the end zone. Flathmann, Middle tackle, blocked the try for the point. Navy went ahead on substitute Bob Leonard's extra point after Gebert had slipped off tackle for 30 yards and a touchdown. Then on the subsequent kickoff the Irish passing at­tack, sparked by Saggau, sailed 78 yards cut of reach of the "Navy anti-aircraft guns; and it was all over but the shout­ing. 
Iowa 7; Notre Dame 0 
It can't happen here; but it did. 50­000 people stood hushed in Notre Dame stadium, the final gun had barked and these 50,000 who had seen it still could not believe it. Fifteen white-uniformed Hawkeyes, led by Fullback Bill Green and Capt. Mike Enich, upset the mightj'^ Irish. Two big lines hammered away at each other until the break came in the last quarter. Iowa recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the Irish 24-yard line; here Green took charge and on the fourth try plunged over for the score. 
Northwestern 20; Notre Dame 0 

A truly great Noi-thwestern line smothered the Irish attack while two ex­cellent backs, Bill DeCorrevont and Don Clawson, collaborated to hand the Irish their worst defeat by a Wildcat team. Clawson started the scoring in the sec­ond period on a pass from DeCorrevont. Then in the thii-d period, DeCorrevont dashed around end for another score. Dick Erdlitz converted. Clawson scored the final touchdown soon after. E^-'''' again converting. Notre Dame's bright spot in the game, which was much closer than the score showed, was a one-man riot job by Captain "Moose" Piepul. 
Notre Dame 10; Southern California 6 

It Was billed as Notre Dame versus Southern California but ended up a full­back's field day, Piepul 10-Peoples 6. Irish Captain "Moose" Piepul played probabljr the best game of his three-year careerl.as he almost single-handedly beat a Trojan team that was playing its best game of the year. The game was not five minutes old when the "Moose," on fourth down, booted a 20-yard field goal that put the. Irish ahead. On the third play after kickoff, Bob Peoples roared through the center of the Notre Dame defenses for 46 yards and a touchdown to give the Trojans the lead. In the sec­ond period the Irish, sparked by "Dip­py" Evans, marched 82'Vards in ten plays to the. Westerners' three-yard line. ' 



Irish Varsity Selects 1940 All-Opponent Squad 
In response to a telegi'aphed request from the SCHOL.4STIC, student manager Bill Hawes air-mailed from Los Angeles the results of All-Opponent team poll of the varsity football squad immediately after their victory over a dangerous Southern Cal team last Saturday. The result is a. first and second team com­posed of men whom the Irish gridders feel offered their best competition this season. 
When compared with the various AU-American selections that have their ap­pearance recently, the squad's All-Op­ponent choice shows a definite agreement especially when one considers the limita­tion on their choice. Many players on the All-Opponent outfit have received at least honorable mention on the more in­clusive Ail-American selections, where many excellent players have been over­shadowed by still brighter gridiron lumi­naries. 
It should be remembered that the cali­
ber of some of this season's opponents 
was not as high as it had been in the 
past. Nevertheless, the Irish of 1940 had 
their hands full in most of this year's 
contests. 
Another factor to be considered is that for the most part the selection was made on the performance of that particular player against the Irish. Injuries may have hampered him before or after that game; or, as is so often claimed, their opponents may have played inspired ball against Notre Dame. What other expla­nation is there for the close one against "the weakest Army team in years," or that big disappointment at the hands of Iowa, who broke their string of four straight defeats at Notre Dame's ex­pense? 
Northwestern, who dealt the Irish their most decisive setback of the season, placed five Wildcats on the All-Opponent squad. Southern Cal, who met Mr. Lay-den's boys in true Trojan fashion, was second with two men on each team. Army, Navy and Iowa tied with three each on the squad. Georgia Tech placed two men, and College of the Pacific and Illinois each came through with one man on the first and second teams respec­tively. 
Complete line-ups as chosen by the varsity are: KrueRer (USC) ..!. L.E Butherus (NWU) Bauman (NWU) L.T Walker (Iowa) Lokanc (NWU) L.G Weidner (Army) Gillis- (Army) C Harwood (Navy) Vitucci (Navy) R.G Sohn (USC) Enich (Iowa) R.T..... Flathman (Navy) Boyarski (C.ofP.) R.E __ Ison (Ga.Tech) 


St. Edward's and Dillon Tie for Interhall Title 
Under cloudy skies, and with a biting wind sweeping across the muddy stadium gridiron, St. Edward's and Dillon halls battled each other to a scoreless draw last Saturday afternoon, in a game that was scheduled to decide the Inter-hall football championship of the University. 
A hundred and fifty fans who braved frigid temperatures to witness the festiv­ities, watched an outmanned St. Ed's eleven fight valiantly against a hard-charging Dillon line, which repeatedly ripped gaping holes in St. Ed's forward wall. Dillon sent its fast-stepping backs through for long gains, only to be re­pulsed when pay-dirt seemed imminent. 
Dillon missed its first scoring oppor­tunity in the opening period when its 55 yard march to St. Ed's 28 ended with Bob Donhoe's fumble. Hugh Mallon of St. Ed's fell on the ball to end the threat. 
In the last quai'ter, a poor kick by Fi-ank Piatt, who had played brilliantly for St. Ed's all afternoon, set up another Dillon threat which failed to materialize. Gene Goeller ran Piatt's punt' back to St. Ed's 17 yard line, where an attempt­ed field goal by Jim Bellinger, fell short. 
The honor for the longest run of the day went to Vince Daigler, shifty Dil­lon halfback, who intercepted one of George Marcucci's passes, and returned it 70 yards to the St. Ed's 12 yard line, only to have the play nullified by a clip­ping penalty. Piatt, Johnny Kilbane, Jesse DeLois and Bill Hartman, all played outstanding ball for St. Ed's, while Daigler, Matty Byrne, Jim Burke and Larry Kelley, performed sensation­ally for Dillon. 
The championship, and the right to claim the gold football charms, as well as the silver trophy to be presented by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University, will be decided by the flip of a coin, when the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, prefect of dis­cipline, calls together a meeting of the i-ival coaches of the two halls; "Doc" Handy, Physical Education instructor in charge of the tournament and the presi­dent of the Student Council, sometime in the near future. It is expected that the awards will be made sometime after the Christmas holidays, when all the teams will gather together in the Univer­sity dining halls, for an Inter-Hall foot­ball banquet. 
According to Mr. Handy, next year's tournament will be started much ear­lier. It will be run along the same lines 

Piepul crashed through center for the Green (Iowa) Q.B Richards (NWU) as this year's, with a slight change in a Maiur (Army) L.H. — Bosch (Ga.Tech.) 
touchdown and added the extra point few of the rules to be decided upon-at a 
Robertson (USC). R-H Peoples (USC) 

that put Notre-Dame ahead for keeps. later date. 
Qawson (NWU) F.B Bernhardt (Illini) —Bill Reynolds •—Jack Dinges At this time the SCHOLASTIC, and the 



