^a-^G' 
Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
•Dl5C€-9VA5l-5(EmP6R-VICTVl^\/S- VIVe-OVASl-•RAS IMOieiTV/RVSv 
Vol,. XLVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 7, 1912. No. 12. 
That's 

'\jnE seen 'em when old Wabash' hit that line— 
It was fine! 
Harvat, Feeney, Fitz, and Jones, 
Drove 'em back with achin' bones, 
And we cheered 'em 'cause they fought an' never 

feared 'em, Never layin' down before the best: That's why the'Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
We seen 'em in a blizzard down at Pitt, Show their grit: Rockne, Crowley, Yund, and 'Whif,' Sent old Pittsburg, bing! bang! biff! And we cheered 'em 'cause they banged and never 
feared 'em. Old U. N. D., you're still among the best: That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
The Season 
wii^iviAM E. COTTER", 'i2 

Success is intoxicating.. And to one in­timately associated with those responsible for the successes of.the past football season, a review is apt to contain indications of intox­icating influences. Success of the highest grade came to the Notre Dame team of 1912. If the following record of the team's work appears to abound in superlatives, the excusing cause is that nothing less than superlatives can adequately express the conquests of the season. 
Hailed as one of the two or three teams possessing any logical claim to the Western Championship in football; with a record of seven gaines and seven victories. during the season; • with a total of 389 points scored on opposing elevens against 27 points tallied 
 Why. 
We seen 'em in Missouri crashing through 
St. Louis U.: 
Lathrop, Berger, NoAvers, and Hicks 
Crushed 'em like a ton o' bricks; 
An' they mowed 'em, an' that Show-Me Club they 
showed 'em,­

An' they put that poor St. Louis bunch to rest: 
That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
We seen 'em in Chicago bust that tie— Me, O My! Dorais, Pliska, "Eich" and Gus— 
• Gee! but they did make some fuss. An' the band a dead march played, while Marquette 

looked on and prayed, And we remained on top among the best: That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
C. L. 

 Just Closed. 
(Adanager of Athletics). 

by opponents; with the championship of 
Indiana conceded even by prejudiced observers; 
with our captain recognized as one of the best 
since the days of Eckersall, Coy, Heston, and 
StefFen, and our fullback the almost unanimous 
choice of football experts of the West for the 
All-Western team; with five Notre Dame men 
nominated for the All-Indiana team and almost 
as many picked for second All-Western elevens 
by a number of different authorities—^with 
all this as the result of the 1912 season, is there 
any reason why we should not feel triuinphant 
over the work of our football warriors? 
With the- exception of the- championship 

year of 1909, Notre Dame has never had reason-
to feel so proud over the gridiron efforts of 
her sons,as during the past season. In many. 
•178 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
respects the 1912 season has been more suc­of the team, and sincerely earnest in his desire cessful than that of 1909. Recognition, long to develop an eleven w'orthy of the material withheld, has been granted in a manner that at hand, the coach brought out all the strength stamps Notre Dame as one of the football of all the candidates. His unassuming earnest­leaders of the West. A foundation has been ness won the good will of the players, and his established in public opinion upon which confidence in their ability inspired perform­future teams may build high and strong, secure ances^ worthy of .any team in the land. in the knowledge that 1912 affords the basis Assistant coaches Dunbar and Philbrook for the highest efforts. rendered splendid service in the drilling of 
Ill seeking the secret of the season's returns the line, and their work in connection with one is confronted by a variety of causes, the second team merits no small credit, because all of which are deserving of a share of of the important part jjlayed by the "scrubs" praise. The personal influence of Coach Marks in strengthening the Varsity. and the willing aid ren­The Marquette game dered b}' his assistants, at Chicago, Thanksgiving Philbrook and Dunbar; Da}'-, provided a fitting the example afforded by end for the football year. Captain Dorais ' and the Victories over the Uni­other veterans who versity of Pittsburg, St. labored indefatigably to Louis University, and perfect the 1912 machine; Wabash College heralded the lo^'^al strivings of the a conquest in the clos­"scrubs" who bore up ing contest, but not even under daily scrimmages the most sanguine Gold that meant daily punish­and Blue follower hoped ments in order that the for the decisive result Varsity - might gain that ended the three-year strength b^J" their offer­tie existing between Mar­ings; and the spirit of quette and Notre Dame. the students which mani­In Chicago, St. Louis, fested itself this 3-ear in and Pittsburg our alumni a manner never before showed their loyalt}'^ to beheld at Notre Dame— Notre Dame in a man­all of these elements were ner that will be long potent factors in bring­remembered by the ing about our success. members of the team. Not alone to "good foot­Not until • we leave the ball" in the technical UniA'^ersity can we truly sense must our success MANAGER WILLIAJI E. COTTER. appreciate the love 
be credited—loyalty, AVhose earnest and efficient labors are borne b}'- her sons for good sportsmanship, per­responsible for much of the success all associated with her of the season. 
fect harm on)'" in the advancement in any field. squad, willingness to sacrifice Ohty two members of the 1912 team will be 
^^v-oo ..v^ ott^xxxi^^ personal ad­graduated -this • year, and the nucleus of expe­
vancement for the w^elfare of the team com­rienced pla3'-ers' "that promises to be -here in 
bined to bring to the players of this season the honor that is theirs and to reflect upon their 1913 insures, an eleven that is certain to-repeat Alma Mater the glor}'- that is hers. this year's successes. Crowley and- Rdckne 
Coach Marks is deserving of more than are: the men who will go from us in June. • Both passing, mention. A Dartmouth player of have given their best to the "teams of the past the present generation, and hailed as one of three years, and both have -won. high honors Vi the best backs in the country during his three on the gridiron. All-Indiana nominations -were years in the eastern school, Marks brought to won by thiem last season, and this same honor Notre Dame all the football knowledge the this year, with the additional honor of selection East afforded. Interested solely in the welfare for several All-Western second teams; brings 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 1/9 
'k^ 
recognition which will give life to the memory of two of the best ends ever developed at Notre Dame. 

All said, the year of 1912 will go down in Notre Dame football history as among the most successful ever recorded. We have been fight­ing against misinterpretation for the past four or five seasons, and so were denied an opportunity to meet our logical opponents. The brighter day that we have been looking for is about to dawn, we feel sure, and Notre Dame will soon come into her own. 
The Short Story of a Successful Season. 
Notre Dame, 116 St. Viator College, 7 
Notre Dame, 74-Adrian • College, 7 
Notre Dame, 39 Morris -Harvey Col., o 
Notre Dame, 41—Wabash College, 
Notre Dame, 3 •Pittsburg University, o 
Notre Dame, 47 St. Louis University, 7 
Notre Dame, 69 Marquette Univ., o 
Total 389 
COACH JACK MARKS. Who has developed one of the best teams in the West this year. 
The Men Who Put it Over. 
WILLIAM M. GALVIN. 

It is high praise to say that the wonderful team of 1912 is one of the three best teams in the long string of good elevens put out by Notre Dame since football began here in 1S87; that it ranks alongside the famous eleven of 1899, and the Western Champions of 1909; but to tell the truth we must say all this and more. To tell of the men who made every game of this season a victory is an honor; to do them justice is impossible. We have stars this season that can be seen throughout America; some outshine all others in the West; many are the brightest in Indiana's' football sky. 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL The men who have won positions on the all-
AVhose earnest ^work as assistant manager added State and all-Western teams are our pride, but—do not think I would minimize their 
to the success of 1912. 

glory—the success of the season is due first and fore­most to the team, to the impenetrable battle front put up by the forwards, to the excellent interference of ends, and backs, to the telling ofltensive playing of all, as well as to the superb work of the men who carried the ball. 
CHARLES E . DORAIS (Captain, Quarterback.) Here's where words fail. 
Although "Dory" was over­looked b}'' the sporting critics of Indiana, he was giA^en both captain and quarter­back positions on the second 

CAPT. DORAIS Pilot of the un­all-Western picks by Chicago defeated eleven football authorities who know of 1912. the game, who declare that there was only a shade of difference between him and Gillette of Wisconsin, who was awarded all-Western quarterback. What is more to the point, he just suits us. He has everything a quarterback should have: ability to pilot a team, a propensity for open field running, a*deadly tackle, and a trust}'^ right toe that punts fifty 3'^ards on an average and drop kicks Avell enough to "v\dn games. Not big, but aggressive and confidence-inspiring, he plays 
every minute he is in the game. Dorais will be with us again next year, and we confidentl}'­expect to see him land the all-Western quarter­back nomination in 1913, and we do not place the all-American be^'^ond him. ­
RAYMOND J. EICHENLAUB (Fullback.) 
Eichenlaub the superb! Unanimously conceded to be the best fullback in the West, he is the .pride of our eleven. He was good as a freshman, but he developed beyond our most extravagant hopes. 
RAY EICHENLAUB Line plunging is the spe­

Unanimous cho'ce for All-Western fullback. cialty of this 20-year old, 
190-pound giant, but anyone who has seen him carry a ball must always think of liim as a dash man. " Eich " was conspicuous all through the season, but his work against Marquette set Chicago critics raving about him, and won for him a clean title to all-Western fullback. 
ALBERT G. FEENEY (Center.) You'll haA-e to traA^el wide and look long to find a more rehable center than "Al." Ecker­sall of the Chicago Tribune found it hard to choose betAveen him and Des Jardein of Chicago UniA'crsity for all-Western center. Feeney was, hOAVCA'cr, put on the second Western team This tribute could not be denied him, for his accurate passing, together AA'ith his magnificent defensive playing, induced the coaches to keep him in all the big games all the time, and won generous praise from the press AvhereA'cr the Varsity played. All-State and second all-Western'center, and a 3^ear to play! It looks like our Indianapolis boy is "going up." KEITH K. JONES (Tackle.) Consistency is the Avord to use in charac­terizing "Deak's" playing. There is nothing ostentatious or spectacular about it, but he figures in CA-er}'' play. Jones appeared at fullback and center last 3'^ear, but Eichenlaub and Feeney came back this year to fill those places. "Deak" Avas too A^aluable, howcA^^er, to be left out of the game, so he was shifted to tackle. The coach's Avisdo.m is attested by the fact that Lardner of the Chicago Examiner named Jones as tackle on his second all-Western elcA'^en. He Avill return. CHARLES F . CROWLEY (End.) One of the two regulars Avho Avill be graduated this year is "Chuck," Avho has played the A^ery best article of football produced at end for three 3^ears. He has AA^OU an unquestioned position on the all-State teams for the past tAvo years, and his shoes Avill be hard to fill next year. He resisted all knocks, • and ncA^er lost his fighting spirit during a game. His fast tackling and magnificent interference running has made "Chuck" one of the most popular faA'^orites on the elcA^en. It is hard to lose such a man. KNUTE ROCKNE (End.) • It is not easy to separate ' 'Rock'' from Crowley, for this pair, Ave belicA^e, made the best set of . ends in the country. Both have been on the all-State teams two years running, and, what is hardest to say, both are jseniors. Rockne is an ideal end for the style of play used this fall, and althgouh handicapped by a sprained knee, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8i 
he played in all the games and won. enviable honors. His genial disposition and earnest­ness as a student have won him a legion of friends who will miss him next year. 
JOSEPH S. PLISKA (Halfback). 
Joe put in his second season at the halfback post this year, and his line plunging and end running, coupled with his hard tackling. and ability to turn off plays, won recognition from the critics wherever he jDlayed. He'is a total stranger to fear, and his dashing plunges have added many yards to the total gained b}'- the gold and blue this fall. Joe is a Sophomore and has two years of pla^'ing ahead of him. 
ALVIN BERGER (Halfback). 
"Heinie's" long suit is open field running, but.he is at home in all departments of the game. In the Wabash, Pitt, and St. Louis games he not only did much to win, but his sensational long runs were features of the contests. Fifty-yard sprints were commonplace exercises with him, and when it comes to making interference or breaking up opponents' plays, Berger has few equals. He has another year to play. 
EDWIN J. HARVAT (Tackle). 
"Speedy" moved over a notch from last year's guard, and proved by his varied attacks that he knew all the tricks of the line, and that he is speedy in reality as well as in name. In playing the game he seldom receives an injur}'-, although he throws himself under plays in a way that seems almost reckless. He is just coming into his own, and will be a valuable than next year. 
WALTER'S. YuND (Guard). 
Last year Yund was unable to land a regular place in the line because such men as Capt. Kelly, Philbrook, and Oaas were among the forwards, but his training with the second string served him well, and this year he rounded out and cinched his position from the '\Qxy beginning. His defensive work was flawless, • and in opening holes he proved of immeasurable service this year. Yund is eligible next year.' 
FREMONT C. FITZGERALD (Guard). Although a freshman, "Fitz" took a guard position in a matter-of-fact way early in the season, and held on to it throughout the year. He hails from Columbia College, Portland, Ore., which, by the way, has also given us Kelleher, Finnegan, and Cook this year—and is a foot­ball player from head to toe.. His work in the Wabash game alone.marked him as a line­man of the first water end won for him a nom­
ination on the all-Indiana 
eleven picked by the In­
dianapolis • News. 
CHARLES T. FINNEGAN 
(Quarterback). 
One of the most val­

uable contributions from interhall circles to the Var­sity came in the form of this Idaho Irishman. His reliabilit}' and fighting spirit made him a most valuable substitute, and he was used to advantage in every game. He is a junior lawyer, and a hard "student as well as a hard 
player. 
JS'OEL DUXBAR 
FRED W. GUSHURST. 
Responsible for the 
(Hafback). strength of the 
"Gus" is another of Varsity's line. 
last year's interhall champions and was 
the choice ' for all-Hall halfback in 19.11 
as well. The dash and determination of this 
old Corby star and his ability to pick holes, 
elude tackles, and use his head label him as 
a halfback bom to the work. He was used in 
all the games, and his plunges always proved 
effective. 
ARTHUR B. LARKIN (Halfback). 
"Bunnie" is yet another hall star, having played with Walsh two years ago. He is one of the fastest halfbacks we have had in years. In the Pittsburg game his long runs, made possible by his rabbit-like dodging which gave him his name, won unstinted praise from critics and fans, and mark "Bunnie" as a coming football light. 
WILLIAM DOLAN (End.) 
Kept off the first string by all-State nominees, "Whif", nevertheless, played in nearly every game, and played with smashing vim. His ability 
PHILBROOK to turn plays and go down 
Our own Star who 
under, punts caused the 
has always given his coach to play him almost best to Notre Dame 

as much as the regulars. "Whif "is eligible for another year of the sport. DANIEL Y. MCGINNIS (End). 
All that has been said of Dolan may be said of Mac. The swift little Missourian showed us. Mac deserves great credit for his work in the Wabash and St. Louis games, and his loss— he is a Senior lawyer—will be felt on the squad. MARTIN L. STEVENSON (Tackle). 
A man who developed into a number one lineman under Coach Dunbar is "Steve. "He can pierce the opposing line and break up plays in a manner truly astonishing. He was han­dicapped with a bad shoulder, but he played a hard and telling style of football, notwithstanding. 
RALPH G. LATHROP (Guard.) 

Lathrop is one of the finds of the season. As soon as he learnt the style of play this season he forged forward and soon was ranked among 
the  best  linemen.  His  work  in  Pittsburg  
marked  him  a  heady,  as  well  as  a  heav}^  
lineman.  
TH E  SUBSTITUTES.  
No praise  can  be  too  high for  the  men  who  

gave their afternoons and took the bruises while they left the glor>'- to the regulars. There can be no doubt that the strong opposition our eleven received at home fitted them for the strong: opposition they received from outside contestants. 
The work of Cook and*Nowers at the end i^ particularly noteworthy, which McLaughlin and Hicks in the line and Gorgen, Lower and Dougherty in the backfield deser\^e honorable mention. The other men who showed their loyalty by staying out the entire season are Miller Deveraux, Keefe, ^Morgan and Munger. These are the men who put the ball over. But an account of the season would not be complete without a mention of the managers. 
To William  Cotter  and  his hard-workin  assis­ 
tant,  John  O'Connell,  the  SCHOLASTIC  offers  
at  once  congratulations  and  thanks.  

A historian narrating the disasters of the season would not, I fear, be able to produce a tome. The only serious mishap of the year was the injury received by our fighting fullback of last year's team. Bill Kelleher. Among the bright­est stories in the histor}^ of the season is the one that tells of the number of interhall players who won recognition on the squad, while the brightest bit of prophecy we can think of is this—We are going to have a Western Champion­ship team next year because everv* man on the regulars, except Crowley, is eligible to play the game next year. Rockne and Mc­Ginnis, it is true, finish in June, but they are eligible should they elect to return next 
year. 
AT WORK 
It took ten solid weeks of^'this and harder work to put Notre Dame on a par mtli "\A''isconsin and Michigan in the claim for Western championship. 
i84  TTHE  NOTRE  DAME  SCHOLASTIC  
The  Interhall  Season  and  All-Hall  Team.  
LOUIS  J. KILEY,  '13, Editor  of  Interhall  Athletics.  

FIRST TEAM. Baujan (Walsh), left end Bartel (St. Joseph), left tackle Reidman (Brownson), left guard Roach (Corby), center. Pritchard (Corby), right guard Voelkers (Sorin), right tackle Carmody (Corby), right end Maloney (St. Joseph), quarterback Kane (St. Joseph), left halfback (Captain), ^ilatthews (Walsh), right halfback 
•Dew (Brownson) fullback. 
The 1912 interhall football season was most successful in eveiy way. All the games were played—and played on scheduled time. No protests delayed the progress of events this year, and the wrangling over eligibility lists, which has so often caused trouble in the past, was conspicuously absent. So keen was the competition that not until the last game was over was the championship decided. 

Now that the season is over the coaches of the various hall elevens have followed the custom of selecting an all-hall team, thus honor­ing by their choice the men who have, in their opinion, played the most consistent game through­out the year. The difficult task of picking the eleven this season was left to the following coaches of hall teams: Pliska of Brownson, Crowley of Walsh, Cook of St. Joseph, Rockne of Corby and INIcGinnis of Sorin. Each coach was permitted to select a first and a second team with captains for both, his choice being limited, however, to players not on his own squad. In each case the men receiving the greatest number of votes was awarded the place on the honorar}'^ eleven. 
For the first time in four years Corby hall failed to win the championship- Not onty did they fail as repeaters, but they won only one game during the whole season. But the large number of men from this hall chosen for the all-hall team, is sufficient testimony that Corby has not ceased to turn out good athletes. 
The flag- goes to St. JosejDh this year. The team from this hall went through the season with a clean slate, winning three games and playing a tie A\'ith Brownson. St. Joseph won none of its games on flukes—Q.Yery victory was 
SECOND TEAM. Hebner (Corby), left end Tierney (Corby), left tackle Carroll (Walsh), left guard Reilly (St Joseph), center King (Corby), right guard Keefe (Corby), right tackle Regan (Sorin), right end 
H. Newning (Walsh) quarterback (Captain). Granfield (Sorin), left halfback Bensberg (Corb3'"), right halfback Nigro (Corby), fullback 
clean cut and decisive. It must be admitted 
that the best team won. 
Baujan of Walsh has been given the place 
at left end, or, rather, he has earned it b}'- his 
clever work throughout the season. Baujan 
has been a regular on the Walsh team for three 
years, and last year his services were recognized 
b}' the award of a place on the second all-hall 
team. His playing this year fully warranted 
his promotion to the first team. Baujan was 
in the game ever}'' minute, and few were the 
gains made around his end. He is a most 
valuable man in receiving forward passes. He 
is one of the few men who received a unanimous 
vote for his position. 
Bartel of St. Joseph was another unanimous 

choice. He was assigned to the position of 
left tackle, the same that he held on last year's 
team. For opening holes in the opponents' 

line and clearing a wa}'^ for the runner, Bartel 
has few, if any, equals on the hall teams, and 
it is this quality that has twice won for him 
a place among the "all-stars." 
Reidman goes in at left guard. A more consistent player would be hard to find. He played for Brownson in nearty eve^ry game during the past two years and failed to land a place on the 1911 all-hall team only because of more experienced rivals that contested his claim. He is strong and fast and has been a tower of strength on the defense for Brownson. 
Roach will play center on the all-hall selection, and a better snapper-back could not be desired. Roach's passing was not his only good point. He possessed a faculty of mixing in every play, and his sharp, hard tackling saved many a 3'^ard for Corby. • 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8s 
-y 
Pritchard is the pick for right guard. He is a 
fast charger and can follow the ball. Full of 
fight and in the game eveiy minute, he is a 
good running mate for Reidman. 
Voelkers of Sorin has been selected for right tackle and is a most valuable man for our m^'^thical team. No line proved "strong enough to withstand his charging. . He.w^as continually opening holes for the backs when on the offense, and throwing runners for losses or blocking punts when pla^ang defense. Following the ball Avas his long suit, for he.was alwa^'s on hand to co\rer a fumble or block a kick. Twice he scored touchdoAATis for Sorin in this way. 

Mike Carmod}'-is another of the four men that received a unanimous vote for their positions. His pla^dng was brilliant. Tackling hard and low, never missing a man, heady and aggressive, no-better man than Mike could have been found for the position. He is a past-master in handling forward passes, and his abilit}-in this line resulted in many long gains for his team. He is equally good at intercept­ing a forward pass attempted by the enemy. No interference can keep Mike away from a runner coming his wa^'^. 
Maloney of St. Joseph is placed at quarter. "Buck" has the science of running a team at his finger tips, and although he entered the game late in' the season he is the coaches' choice for • the position. It is not mah}'^ minutes after a game has started before he has the weak-spots in his opponents' defense picked-and. is sending his backs crushing through at just the right place. Hfe is a good one to start a forward pass, for all his throws, whether short or long, are accurate. No one' can surpass Malone}'­when it comes to open field,, running. 
The captain and. left halfback, of tlie team is "Nig" Kane of St. Joseph. Kane showed that he could play every kind of .game. . He responded to every call that was made upon him, whether it was for.a plunge into the line, or a run around end, a . punt,, a' drop kick. "Nig" could always be counted on, and probably gained more ground during. the\season than any other man, with the possible exception of Matthews of Walsh. Kane will."do the kicking for this all-hall team. j . • 
Matthews is,selected for the -Tight-half position "Matty" is smair and ra!ther; light, but for all, that he is the hardest man on the team to tackle. At picking holes and shaking off, runners he is a, wonder; -He is probably the most successful 
of the halfbacks at carrjdng the ball around 
the end, and the only rival of Kane as a ground-
gamer. Dew of Brownson made the all-hall -second team last ^'^ear as a guard. This year he pla^'^ed behind the line and earned a place-on the first team. With "Tex" to furnish interference for Matthews, and Kane to assist in the kicking, and to take the ball through center -when a few yards are needed, it.would very seldom happen that this team would be held for downs by a team of its class. A second team has bfeen picked, but such is the quality of the material ^that it is second onty in name. Individual mention pan,, not be given these second men because of limited space, but it is due to Hariy Newning, who is selected as captain and quarterback of the second string that he .receive the credit due him. His regular position is at end, ,but owing to a scarcity of quarterbacks in Walsh he shifted,himself to the pivot, and was considered the slightest shade less worthy of quarterback than Malonev. . '' '. . 
The Team. 

O sat}-, can you see bj"-the aftermath's gleam 
An}'-team that compares with oiir bwn'N. D:'"t'eam?— 
For slashing attack' or for brilliant end run -'; .' 
Or for tackles that go like the shot from a gun? 
From our big Eichenlaub to our little Dorais ­
The}'-are heroes, each one of them—hipl hip! hoo'ray! 
For the team." ."' ' ' 

Did you notice what happened'to pooi"old Marquette? 
Why she hadn't a chance to get out of the -ivet ., 
Of the goals and the touchdowns so like a downpour— 
No-prof, of_ Math. E could keep track of the score. 
For the "Irish" were doing things all through the fray, 
They were there everj'^ minu'te^—then, hip! hip! hooray! 
For the. Team. -." -' • 

Proud Wabash came down "like:the wolf on the fold," But she bowed in defeat to ..the'Blue and. the Gold. Then we charged .through the-State/and "ive romped 
thrpugh the West . • ' • ' : 'Till the honors were thick on our proudly tossed crest And we looked to the East with.e3'esloriging—Avell, sa}', If we clinched, who'd be.victor?—Why, hip! hip! hooray! 
Our own .Team. ' ' ' ."•• ,. 

'Tis over—the season of conquest is. past;-;, >.,, 
But-,the memor)'-of it will'endure; it will>last'' ' ? Down-the .years .when our men of the.Gbldand the Blue Have tackled .Life, hard and.-have, fought .-^their..'way 
through' -. ... '"".;• -. ^•..•'••; j-

To the "goal of success^then meeting some^'day,­-We will "toast the}.old" herbesV^a hip!. hip! vhQo.ray! . ; '-'• V For^ the Team.-;^:-\--' •"-^:,. ^ '* ' 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The All-Amerikay. 
Wise Waller Camp lit up his lamp And Avrote a little while. He read it o'er, then wrote some more And smiled a placid smile. My "inside" knowledge of the game Is sure and can not fail; My plan is just pick Harvard first And then pick good old Yale. With five of crimson, six of blue. It seems the onl}'- way. To pick the best of East and West For All-Amerikay. . L- C. 
Exit Football. Enter Basketball and Track. 
J JOHN F- O'CONNELL 
{Ass't. Manager of Athletics.) 

If our fcotball experience may be used as a criterion, the coming season holds in store one of the most successful 3'-ears ^ever experienced by the Notre Dame basketball team. Con­ditions at present in basketball are similar to those experienced at the outset in football. Granted that the sport will receive the loyal support accorded football by pla^'-ers and fans, there seems to be little reason why honors proportionately as great should not accrue to the team and the Universit}'". 
Experienced players are here in numbers, and interest in the game has already been displa)'-ed in a manner that promises well for the strength of the team.'. The schedule of con­tests is certain to give the squad some exciting battles. This 3''ear, as in the past, difl5culties have been encountered which prevent the scheduling of more numerous games with opponents, of recognized standing, but the average is good, and the possibilities afforded by most of the contests demand earnest work by all of the players. 
Ex-Captain Granfield, Captain Feeney, Cahill, Kenny, Nowers, and Kelleher are the mono­gram members of last year's team who will be in the race for positions. Byrne, Kelly, Smith, and several others of the 1912 squad, along with a host of first-year men are going through the daily workouts in a rnanner that stamps them as serious contenders for regular positions. 
I^ewis Institute will open the season at Notre Dame next Friday night, and the college contests, to be taken up almost "im­mediately after the holidays, will keep the team busy until early in March. 

Little is known as yet concerning track prospects. The loss of most of the stars of the past few years will place the team under a big handicap in college meets where the fresh­men Avill be ineligible for competition, but enough of the old men remain to insure a rep­resentative team. Capt. Plant, Hogan, Wasson, Henehan, Birder, Hood, Feeney, O'Neill, Yund, and Rockne are the survivors of the 1912 season who are already in training for the opening track meet in Chicago, January 24th. Several of the freshmen have established en­viable records, notably Pritchard, who will bolster up the team in the hurdles,- and the new material will do much to strengthen the squad. 
Varsity track offers a splendid opporttmity to interhall men this season. Candidates are needed in practically every department, and if those who have proven in the interhall meets that they are capable of good things will only give themselves over to the training of Coach Nelson, the results are apt to prove surprising. Constant work is necessary for development, but the stake is worth the striving. 
BASKETBALL. Dec. 13—Lewis Institute at Notre Dame. Jan. ID—Oregon Agricultural College at Notre Dame Jan. 15—Franklin College at Notre Dame Jan. iS—Northwestern College at Notre Dame. Jan. 28—St. Viator College at Notre Dame Feb. I—Wabash College at Notre Dame Feb. 5—Rose Polytechnic at Terre Haute (Pending) Feb. 6—Wabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 7—Earlham College at Richmond. Feb. S—Dayton Turners at Dayton ((Pending) Feb. lo—Denison University at Granville. Feb. II—Ohio Wesley an IJniversity at Delaware. Feb. 12—St. John's University at Toledo. Feb. 13—Michigan Agricultural College at Lansing. Feb. 19—Michigan Agricultural at Notre Dame (Pend) Feb. 24—Ohio Northern Univ. at Notre Dame (Pend) Feb. 28—Earlham College at Notre Dame. March 7—Beloit College at Notre Dame. TRACK: Jan. 24-25 — First Regiment- Handicap Meet in Chicago. Feb. 28-March i—A. A. U.' Championship Meet at Chicago. April 26—Pennsylvania Relay Games at Philadelphia May 3—University of Missouri at Notre Dame (Peiid.) May 10—University of Pittsburg at Notre Dame. May 17—^^'anderbilt University at Nashville (Pend.) June 7—Conference Meet-at Chicago. • 
The Real Victor. 
Sheldon himself was the first to discover it. He had become aware of its presence when massive "Chalk-" Masters of the scrubs had charged toward him with the ball. He remembered with nauseating shame that he had affected confusion in order to tackle the wrong man. And it was all because—well, because of an incident of the last big game of a 3'^ear before. To the young man whose pale countenance stared fixedly from the crimson blanket, it seemed but yesterday. 
They had recovered the ball on downs, and the slippery oval reposed on the bleared streak of chalk that marked their opponents' five-yard line. Two minutes to play. Two minutes and one short plunge, and they would score the 
•winning touchdown,—^the touchdown that was being clamored for by eighteen thousand rooters, the touchd6\\Ti that would so gloriousty re­trieve three successive defeats. How vividly, after a lapse of twelve months, that picture still stood out. The kaleidoscopic color effect of the seething grandstands; the chill, lowering sk}'^ of late November; the teams—their jerseys sodden with perspiration, the padded armor of their nether limbs crumpled and black with mud—crouching like paleolithic monsters, seem­ingly but half human in the nose-guards and headgears that disfigured, yet protected. 
Tense, alert, vigilant, the^'^ waited. Silence, broken only by the audible respiration of twent^"^­two exhausted men, and the droning intonation of the signal, 7—26—31, and the next instant he was smashing through the tumbled heap, that chaotic tangle that sought so frantically to retard, or so desperately to further, the last decisive play of the game. Two, three, four yards he crashed through the barrier of the defensive line. Ha^'^diii tackled low and failed. Then Bradley and Zimmerman were upon him, but he shook them off and plunged ahead. Marsh drove in with charactjeristic accuracy, but did not check the lunging giant until he had tottered across the line. Then the dun-colored earth had. seemed to leap toward him. He met it with a soul-shocking, grinding crash. He was .mercifully unconscious when Rogers, his own quarter, in struggling over a prostrate form, sent his cleated heel fairly into the inert half-back's /upturned face. He did not 
know then that He had "gone over." He was 
oblivious to the delirious stands that ecstatically 
screamed the letters of his name, S-H-E-L-D-0-N. 
He paid no heed to the swaying thousands that 
participated in the exulting snake dance, that 
cheered frenziedty for him,—for him and for 
Patterson who had kicked goal. They had 
tried to tell him about it that night, but he was 
oblivious to the presence of. his sympathetic 
teammates clustered about his bandaged head; 
for a red hot wire tugged at his bruised left 
eyeball, a wire that jerked incessantly, and 
seemed to sear his throbbing brain. 
When the bandages were removed, weeks 
later, he realized that the scrimmage under 
the goal posts was the last he would ever 
view with two normal eyes.- No one knew, 
however, beyond himself and a celebrated 
oculist, that his left eye was hopelessly blind. 
To all of his loyal admirers—and he was the 
idol of CA'^eiy man at school—he appeared to 
have fulty recovered. 
He was out with the first squad the year following, training faithfully as was always his custom. He played the first two minor games with a sad reversal of form. But although his performance was far from brilliant, the coaches and "dopesters" had merely murmured sagely about pre-season form. Then came that fateful da}'' when, as the only man between "Pudge" Manhall and a touchdown, he had fallen deliberately, cravenly. The coaches were nonplussed, amazed, but Sheldon understood. It was the memory of that other game. 
On several occasions since then that memory had leaped forth at a crucial moment, and with the third repetition it dawned upon coaches, trainers, and teammates that he was afraid. "Yellow" was their sibilant whisper, and Sheldon with flushed face and downcast eyes, admitted in his heart that they Avere right. 
That was wh};- he now sat motionless on the side lines, while Billings, his substitute, hammered the scrub line in vain. With perspiration beading upon his forehead, he groaned impotently through two stirring reverses at the hands of inferior teams. He also saw his ovm eleven, last year's champions, held to a humiliating no-score tie by a school which the year before they had swamped with more than fifty points. 
Despair descended upon class-room and cam­pus. The coaches were even more caustic than usual. The rooting was lifeless. The squad itself was "going stale." The training table badinage of better days had been supplanted 

fi 
by "an atmosphere of gloom and silence. The "old Sheldon" Avould have changed all this in a day. With him back in his old-time form, the coach would have forgot his biting sarcasm, the team would have played like mad heroes, and .victories would have come thick and fast. But now when he met a teammate's gaze, the latter would turn away, with a significance that was like the sting of a blow. 
Day after day he huddled in his heay>'' blanket, eager, anxious, yet tormented by a haunting depression. Sometimes when Bill­ings limped to the bench, his heart would leap with a fierce hope, but always it was Cutler that sped jubilantly out to report. . On this, the last day of the season, however, various wild rumors were afloat. Public opinion, with its usual inconstancy, was swinging around toward Sheldon. His failures and omissions were charitably ascribed to overtraining. They had to win, declared the student body unan­imously; and had not Sheldon himself wrested the championship from this self-same eleven onty last year? The vociferous, changeable undergraduates forgot the "Pudge" Marshall incident, and with a return of the old optimism assured each other that Sheldon "had the Indian sign on that crowd just the same." Even Reed, the head coach, appeared to Avaver in his opinion. But when the referee's ' whistle blew at two o'clock that afternoon, Billings was at "full." Sheldon, taciturn, white faced, and nervous, swathed as usual in the heavy blanket, rocked back and forth, tormented by alternating hope and fear. As 
their old enemies trotted confidently out upon the field, their orange-striped jerseys smote upon the old chord, and Sheldon was glad that he had lost out. Cutler, a few feet away, tore up handfuls of withered grass, and fidgeted incessantly throughout the heart­breaking battle. His gaze never left the other confident, dashing fullback, and in the eagerness of his eyes could be detected a wish that was almost a prayer. 
Sheldon's one good- eye roved over the field, the chill sky, and the buzzing stands, always coming to rest upon the athletic youth' who had usurped his place upon the team. To the spec­tators the big fullback on the sideline appeared as calm and unfeeling as a statue, but in spirit he was fighting side by side with Billings, silently applauding the brilliant plays, groan­ing inwardly at the failures. . For the fiftieth 
time the gold and crimson backs had failed 
to pierce that dogged, unyielding line of orange 
and blue. For three full quarters, and for a 
desperate five minutes of the fourth, Billings 
had battled with fanatical zeal, but now as he 
crumpled under the onslaught of the opposing 
tacklers, Sheldon knew instinctively that he" 
was through. ^ The coach turned quickly to 
the bench, and ignoring Cutler was excitedly 
signalling a big fellow that kept somewhat apart 
from the rest and crouched and shivered beneath ­
his heavy blanket. Sheldon started to his feet,' 
dazed by the suddenness of his elation, then 
like a spectre of death there loomed before his 
mind the awful truth: he was "yellow." 
The kaleidoscopic color effect of the seething ^ 

grandstand, the chill, lowering sky of late 
November, the players, their jerseys sodden 
with perspiration, the very orange bands on 
his opponents' blue sleeves, recalled just such 
another day—a day when a white-hot wire 
jerked incessantly at his quivering eyeball, 
and seemed to sear his throbbing brain. ' He 
knew, as the old panic obsessed him, that he 
could not win. To go in would be but to save 
his pride,—and throw the game. In a single 
bound he cast off the folds of his crimson 
blanket and was clutching Cutler's arm. 
" Cutler," he choked, "you're going in— 

understand ? And you've got to win, boy— • 
I can't. Play the best game you know how, 
because it's all up to you. Watch out for, 
Stevens and Lannigans," he pleaded, "and 
play around left end, it's their weakest point. 
'Now play," he hissed, "like the very deucel" 
Toward the astounded poach he turned a pair of candid grey eyes, one forever sightless, and he calmly said, "I can't go in. One of my lamps is out, and I have a saffron streak a yard wide. Cutler'U do," he added with what was almost a sob, "because he's got to win." 
That night he sat alone in his room, dis­regarded, forgotten, and heard the far-off shouts and revelry that proclaimed Cutler the new gridiron hero. He heard the substitute acclaimed in the same swelling volume of student en­thusiasm that had greeted him on every hand but one short year before. And he smiled sadly, for he knew that "Cyclone" Sheldon was a "has been." Yet although a strange mistiness blurred the vision of his one- good eye, he was . content. For deep down-in the innermost recesses of his soul he knew-that he, and not • Cutler, -was the real -victor. .- -J. H; W. '15. . 
of young man Notre Dame feels proud of. He_ is a great pla^'^er,—resourceful, vigilant, 


Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter 

Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame 
Tenns: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid 
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana 
Vol. XLVI. DECEMBER 7, 1912. No. 12. 
Board of Editors. 
SIMON E. TWINING, '13 WILLIAM J. MILROV, ' I3 
LOUIS J. KII,EY, '13 JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13 
WILLIAM J. BURKE, '13 THOMAS F- O'NEIL, '13 
FRANK C. STANFORD, '13 JOHN T. BURNS, '13 
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, '14 JOSEPH M. WALSH, '14 
MAURICE NORCK AUER' 14 ARTHUR J. HAYES, '15 
FRANK H. BOOS, '15. 
—^At the end of a very successful football season the temptation of extravagance is alluring. Yet there hsls never been a season less in .need of the support The Year 'and of the hyperbolic crutch, The Men. than the season which has just closed. In the number and results of the games played, in the physical condition of the men, in their spirit of harmony and splendid deportment on and off the field,—in all this the season has been triumphantly successful. Not in many years has the rooting idea taken hold of the students in such healthy fashion, nor is it often they have given such outward expression to their loyalty. To no one 'man may all these good results be attributed. They are so many and so coromendable they may be "passed around." 
The football science of the men, their superbly aggressive playing, the spirit of fight which never failed them when their goal was in danger, —all this is due to Coach Marks, and his assis­tants, Coaches Dunbar and PhUbrook. Any­body who has noted, Mr. Mark's work will not consider it too high praise to rank him among the greatest coaches ever seen at the University; Mr. Dunbar gave cheerfully his valuable knowledge of the game; and to him the heaJd coach, on several occasions attributed 4inuch of the success of the team. Mr. Phil­^-brook, our/09 star, needs no encomium: he is one: of our own, and has pur devotion as a matter of course. Gaptain.Dorais is the type 
alwa^'^s calm,—and what is vastly more im­
portant, he is a fine t^'^pe of gentleman. Much 
of the." helping" spirit among the players was 
the result of his ever present tact. We wish we 
could name and give a mete of praise to every 
man on the team. Crowley, Rockne, Dolan, 
Nowers at the ends; Eichenlaub, Berger, 
PHska, Gushurst and Larkin in the backfield; 
Jones, Fitzgerald, Feeney, Harvat, Yund, 
Cook on the line—we would like to give every 

One of them a warm special word of com-. 
mendation, but our space is limited. 
Then there is Cotter. Cotter was a Minim 
in the long ago, then a CarroUite, with 
"shining morning face creeping like a snail 
unwillingty to school," then a Browmsonite 
with all ex-Philopatrians as" the vassals of his 
Tamman}'- hall. Cotter has grown from Minim 
to manager. It is a long joume}'', honorably 
made. His first 3'^ear has been eminently 
successful; due to hard work, prudence and a 
pleasing personalit3^ We congratulate Mr. 
Cotter, and wish him continued and greater 
successes. 
Santa Sophia. 
Mr. Charles W. Sej'^mour told us many interesting historical details" of the wonderful moslem mosque of Santa Sophia in Constantino­ple. This imposing edifice, erected by the Empe­ror Justim"an, was completed in 558 A. D. and has been successively a Roman Catholic church, a Greek Catholic temple, and a Mahomedan mosque. • Mr.- Seymour described in detail its architectural features, its tragic history, and the circumstances leading up to its seizure. 
Notice to Faculty, and Seniors. 
. The Facult}'^ and members of'- the Senior class in cap and gown are to meet in the Main Building, Tuesday,, December 10, 7:45 a. m., to form academic procession for services in Sacred Heart Church. After mass the. pro­cession will, return .to the reception room of~ the Main. Building to meet the President of the University, ; .. . 
The^ Faculty^cap and gown will gather in, the Main budding at 145 p^ m. to form academic procession7^for -exercises, of President's Day in. Washington;Halir, : .. . 

Calendar. 

Sunday, Dec. S—Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Brownson Literary Society, 7:30 p. m. 'Monday—Philopatrian Society, 5:00 p. m. Carroll Eucharistic League, 7:30 p. m. Tuesday-^President's Day (No classes). Inspection of the military companies by the Facult}'-, 9:15 a. m. Band Concert in Rotunda "of Main Building, 
10:00 a. m. " David Garrick" at Washington Hall 2 :oo p. m. Indianapolis Club, 7:30 p. m. Meeting of K. of C, S:oo p. m. 

Wednesday—Preliminaries in the Breen Oratorical 
Contest, Washington Hal', 4:00 p.m. Varsity vs. Lewis Institute in Basketball. Civil. Engineering Society, 7:30 p. m. 

Thursday—Varsity Basketball practice, 9:30 a. m. Meeting of "The Tore Club," 7:30 p. m. Saturday—Entertainment and luncheon by the 
- Philopatrians, 7:30 p. m. 
Local News. 

—Next Wednesday evening wilt be the gala nisrht for" our football men. Then will take place at the Oliver the great annual Monogram banquet at which the battle-scarred warriors of '12 will receive their well-merited monograms. 
—Next Wednesday afternoon, Dec. 11, the preliminaries for the Breen Gold Medal for Orator}'- will take place in Washington hall. Many of our local "Patrick Henry's" are now hard at work rehearsing, so we are assured of hearing speeches well worth while. 
—^And next Tuesday is President's Day. Of course there will be the annual "big feed," the- band, and the final post-season football games. But the great feature of the holiday 
• will • be the production of David Garrick in Washington Hall. We are awaiting this event with great impatience, for, under the masterly supervision of Professor Koehler, we are certain that it will be the best ever produced at the University. 
—Evidently no one enjo)''ed the recent inter­scholastic event in - Chicago more than Mr. '. James Keeley, Managing Editor of the Chicago Tribune. - Early Friday morning lie telegraphed as follows: , ' ' 
'' Congratulations on the' outcome of the football debate.' Starting with this' year I will give annually," three prizes of fifteen, ten and five = dollars respectively to the best three accounts of the Thanskgiving Day - ganie. 
Stories not to exceed seven, hundred words; judges to be myself and our football experts; Students of course in journalism to participate." We desire to give public thanks to Mr. Keeley 
for this further  proof  of  interest-in us, and  to  
assure him that he will fi nd our writing men  as  
doughty  as  our  fighting  men.  

—We break all the printed rules of good behavior and publish without permission of the _ writer the following letter from Brother Lawrence Joseph, Director of Athletics in the Christian Brothers College, St. Louis, Missouri' "DEAR FATHER—Under date of March ist you. wrote me relative to Mr. Luke Kelly-who was then a candidate for the position of • football coach. We engaged him and' for the three months that he was in our service, we found him to be good, regular, and competent. He was a model to our young men, and Father, it is with sincerity that I -wish the institution that turns out such types of Christian manhood God-speed! I desire to thank you and- all Notre Dame people that had anything to do with bringing Mr. Kelly here, for the real service they have done. Needless to.- say, we have engaged him again for next season.' 
Very Cordially yours, ' BROTHER" LAWRENCE JOSEPH: 

CORBY VS. FRIARS. On Thanksgiving Day Corby Hall made her annual trip to Fort Wayne to do battle with the Friars of that city. The Braves tried: to outdo the Varsity by their score of 49 points against a team of well trained fighters. The contest' opened with a rush before a crowd of two thousand, with music and all the other features of a big league game. . ^ A few minutes after the opening play, Capt. Soisson was taken out because, of injuries. The backfield, with Nigro at full and Maloney and Bensberg at halves, gained consistently through the line, while Bensberg's long end runs and clever dodging was the sensation, of the day. Quarterback "Nig" Kane directed = an open game of forward passes which netted, big gains.. The strength of the line was often taxed by the plunging of the" hea,vy backs of the Friars, but the goal-was: never, in danger. Clean sportsmanship • marked the contest. After the game the Braves -were treated X6 a' sumptuous spread: The-Fort ;Wa3aie men . are good losers, thorough gentlemen,: and they best entertainers in'the state'. ' * ,.J •,".;, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Our All-Western Men and the Press. 
Gillette of Wisconsin and Dorais of Notre Dame are nearl^'^ equal at quarterback, but the position is given to the Badger by a slight margin Dorais in another y&ax to play should develop into one of the best quarter­backs in this section of the country.—Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune. 
The addition of a fourth down in which to make ten yards put a premium on plunging fullbacks. Two Western men in this position relieved their quarters of a lot of Avorrj'' by their ability to penetrate their opponents' line or make headway outside the tackles when two or three yards were to be gained in the last try. They were Eichenlaub of Notre Dame and Tanberg of Wisconsin The former is given the place because he combined his line bucking strength with wonderful effectiveness in skirting the ends. 

Eichenlaub is one of the best fullbacks ever produced in this part of the country. T?ndoubtedly he would have been a star on any eleven had he elected to try for it. He is remarkably fast for so big a man and hard to tackle. He uses the -straight arm with good results, and possessed sufficient strength to keep on going even after he is grabbed by a foe. Tanberg has many of his \nrtues, but lacks his brilliance in the open field.—Lardner in the Chicsigo Examiner. 
Crowley of Notre Dame also is a polished end. He was a member of the Harvard eleven that beat Yale 4 to o, in" 1908. Marquette and the Hoosier's other opponents found him very troublesome tliis year.—Lardner in the Chicago Examiner. 
The centre position [All-Western] is given to Des Jardien of Chicago, although Feeney of Notre Dame is nearly his equal.—Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune. 
Berger and Pliska were both mentioned by several authorities as among the most valuable halfbacks in the West, while Eichenlaub and Dorais both receive honorable mention in Walter Camp's ail-American eleveiL 
; ^-^^•-^ • — • 
Safety Valve. 

When in the recent past the queens from the For­bidden Palace appeared at a lecture in Washington hall, you, should have seen some of the Entire Student Body brush up! 
*** 

Students wishing to secure books from the library may receive same by shouting their wishes from basement. Books may be returned any time within ten years. No questions asked. 
*** 
ExAiiPi^Es OF ALLITERATION. 
. ' Cutie Cusack 
Blondie Boujan 
Chubbie Corcoran 
Baldie Baldwin 
*** 

Luke Kelly^s team broke.up.everything in St. Louis, Don Hamilton's bunch * of. youngsters walloped all Wisconsin and neighboring states, and Harry lliller's. 
warriors Avon glory for Creighton College, Omaha. "Notre Dame's doin' it, doin' it, doin' it," as that man of classic mould, Joe Byrne, puts it. 
*** PEST 41. The Carroll kids running like -Indians before the. Main Building when coming, out from meals. " 
There was a meeting of the freshman laAvyers recently to select and vote on a class pipe. We suggest a gas pipe as the most appropriate class pipe for these legal lights. 
*** 
It is the ambition of this year's Dome makers to have the book store send out a wail offering twenty-seven previous Domes for one of theirs. Wonder how that strikes sedate Cyril J. Curran and Our Lange of polecat fame. 
*** 

Walter Camp, according to the literati of the art, makes up his so-called All-America from "inside" football. Probably he'd have put on Eichenlaub and Dorais if he had seen some "outside" football. 
At all events Walsh is interhall champion in the open-to-all Delinquent List contest. Ad multos annos, Walsh! Keep it up! 
*** The outlines for Litt. B. theses are due Dec. 10 Ph". From then on we'll have a superabundance of Ph sapience. *** Rockne (talking in his sleep the night before Mar­quette-N. D. game): Father, whom do you consider the best all-round end in the West? (pause) O thank you, Father, I really didn't expect that. 
*** 
THE TIP TOPS. 

Happy O'Council is Varsity short stop, student of Eng. IV., somewhat of a shark in Latin and quarter-for the studious Sorinites. We migh just at this point take up the question as to possible complications in the football situation if Sorin had tied St. Joe in that last interhall contest.- But in view of subsequent events the contingency is now inadmissable Therefore, we return to Happy O'Connell. Happy is from the East, plays pool, knows Hard Luck Campbell, and is the author of that classic phrase, "That's all the farther I got." He and Erich Barbarossa de Fries used to be great friends in the some time past.- But since Erich broke into our omniscient weekly with a "fine pome, I bet you," he has passed up Hap as a 
small one. Sic transit, etc. ^ Mr. Happy is still living, although placed away among the requiescant in pace crowd of Sorin hall. ; 
*** , 

The claim of light-weight championship in football advanced by the Walsh Chicks is disputed by, the second team before the last of St. Edward's hall. A post season game is therefore a possibility. 
, -. *** • ' 

Our old. rival, Yeh Wabash, gets a man on the iall-Western. Then talk . of, secondary championship for the little Giants. . . , 


