Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 37 Issue 14 19 December 1903 
244 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
Mr Cockran's brilliant effort lasted almost two hours, and throughout that period the audience hung with rapture on his words. His address was a forceful, most convincing and impressive vindication of the Catholic Church. As became a devoted member of that Church he attended the students' Mass in the Chapel of the Sacred Heart Tuesday morning, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, and a few hours later started for New York, bringing with him, we hope, impressions as pleasant as those which his visit has produced at Notre Dame. 
• MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, '04. 
One of. the most coveted prizes within the reach of the students at Notre .Dame is the gold medal for oratory, donated by the Hon. William P. Breen, LL. D., of Fort Wayne, Tnd. This inducement, combined with the ambi­tion, industry and ability of the contestants, accounts for the remarkable display of eloquence, known as the oratorical compe­tition, which was held- in Washington Hall last Monday. The contest this year aroused very unusual interest, for not a few of the candidates are veterans of the victorious inter-collegiate debating teams, men of tried worth and possessing many of the natural and acquired accomplishments of the orator. 
It was therefore a battle royal; honors were not won lightly. 
The efforts of the competitors were of a high order both in matter and delivery, and had we space we might justly comment on the individual merit. So evenly matched were some of the candidates that in the total ranking Maurice F, Griffin and Byron V. Kanaley received equal awards. The clause in the Indiana State Oratorical Constitution which provides "that in case of a tie in the ranking, the orator having the highest average grades in delivery shall be awarded first prize." determined in favor of Mr. Griffin who was accordingly declared victor. This gave Mr, Kanale}'- second place. Mr. MacNamara was third, Mr.^Farabaugh fourth, Mr. Gormley fifth, Mr. Wimberg sixth and Mr. Proctor seventh. Mr. Griffin is therefore Notre Dame's rep­resentative in the Indiana Inter-Collegiate oratorical contest to be held next February. In that competition we hope he will heighten Notre Dame's reputation and win further glory for himself. P. J. MACDONOUGH.'03. 
The Varsity of J 903, 
Enough has been written by admiring critics, and others as well, in praise of the sturd)' men who performed so creditably this fall on the gridiron for the Gold and Blue to fill one large volume, but still we feel obliged to give a few columns to a brief summary of their achievements which brought so' much credit to themselves and their Alma Mater. Led by a captain whose name is familiar wherever the pigskin finds favor, these gallant lads made a record that will be remembered at Notre Dame for years to come. What student, whether he was fortunate enough to have been a witness to the contest, or had anxiouslv listened in Washingfton Hall to the stirring reports sent in b}^ Mr. McKeever, shall ever forget that thrillinp- sfame with Northwestern on the memorable fourteenth of November? 
After, repulsing nine savage attacks on their goal line, the Varsity men not only forced Northwestern back, but during the greater part of the second half the}'- com­pelled the Purple men to act on the defensive, and threatened to score on more than one occasion. Their playing that day was a revelation (to football enthusiasts ever3'-where, 


NOTRE DAME 

and lavish praise was given them b}'^ even the most prejudiced. It is not on this game alone, however, that the men of the Varsity .made such an enviable-.record.' The goal line remained uncrossed during-the entire season, the only.team in. the West.that can . make this proud boast: But some say, this teams Notre Dame played, with the exception of Northwestern, were of the second class. True, the}' were of the so-called second class, nevertheless man}'^ of them proved stumbling-blocks to some of the leaders of the "Big Nine," while Notre Dame defeated all her opponents . in .decisive fashion. This is the . third consecutive year that Notre.Dame has held the.title to the Indiana ChamJDionship. 
;^ Prospects at the beginning of the season,, as far as material was oncerned,- Avere .the brightest, in j'^ears; but Avithout the- assistance of :a coach it was thought that this splendid material would go • to . waste and ' whatever honors Notre Dame should, win on the grid­iron. Avould be gained by a few individual stars. Captain Salmon was entrusted with; the task of coaching his men as well as playing, but though unbounded. faith existed in his abibt)'' to do either, it was thought the double duty would prove too much, and that it would be impossible for him to round the team into form. It was an:undertaking sufficient to test, the mettle of any man, but Salmon, with that sturd}'- resoluteness that has. characterized his. playing in man}'-a hard-fought, gridiron-battle, bravety set.himsell to the work before him, and aided by the good spirit of his teanir mates, succeeded nptonty in rounding the team -into ' form, but also in turning out, the most successful eleven that has- ever' represented Notre. Dame. Chief, of police McWeeney of ;South Bend, at . one time a coach here, gave-valuable aid to the golden topped captain just prior to the Northwestern ; game, and was largely instrumental in "infijsing that fighting spirit into the men that brought 

SCHOLASTIC. 

knew," although "green," soon learned the game and was a tower of strength, while the shifting of "Happy" Lonergan to half filled the half-back gap to perfection. Nyere .was also shifted-to half, Shaughnessy and McGlew filling the ends, making up altogether the fastest back field- and- the fleetest and most.reliable ends yet seen at the University. Contrary to the sj'stem generally in vogue 
at the University, the Varsity of '03 was 
developed by degrees, the team being 
rounded into form to- meet: the occasion. A 
glance at the record given below is sufficient 
to prove the worth of this system, and to 
Trainer Holland is ' praise due for this 
innovation. A remarkable feature of the year.'s 
work too, was the wonderful ease with-whieh 
our old-time- rivals, DePauw, P. and S. and 
0..M. U.', were defeated. Two hundred and 
ninety-two points were scored in 310 minutes 
of. actual pla}', nearly a point a minute. The 
-following is. the-.'season's record: 
. CAPT. LOUIS J. SALMON (Full-back). Four }'ears ago, when Salmon came out for the team he was tried at end and. immediately made good. He filled this position until the Michigan game when he was shifted to full­back. His .playing in that game is still fresh in the minds of the students; and his feat of carrying the ball against the Wolverines' boasted defense for a distance of eighty yards, immediate^ stamped him as one of-the best line-buckers in the .business. Two years later he again went, up against -Yosts' famous machine, but. the defense which had proved impregnable against the stars of the country 
•weakened-before-the terrific line smashes of the mighty Salmon. On defensive work too he has. but- fe»v equals, and in the Northwestern game of this 3''ear it was his magnificent work in this "department that prevented North­western from scoring. His fame as a line 
-bucker, puntei, "ind all-round football .player extends .from coast to coast, and the past two years he'was selected as All-"Western full­back.. Walter, Camp, the greatest football critic in the country, gives him this position on the All-American-3d team, and would have given'him higher honors if he had played in 
-more games against tbe "Big Nine." .This 
them so much: glory,"but "outside .of this, 
3''earc,orapleted his- fourth and last on the Salmon worked alone. The record he-made, Varsit}'. iHt .is 23 3'ears of age, weighs 175 handicapped as he was, is phenomenal and lbs and-.is'-5-feet 9J^ inches in height. 
certainly worth}^ of the. highest praise. • 
' ; HENKY ;J.:MCGLEW .: (.Left End). The majority of the men.of.this year!s team 
This ,js.* also. McGlew's last year on the 

iwere veterans, but earl}';. In. the season: the ": Varsity, which, means, the^ loss of one of'the great difficult}', encountered-.was to fill-in the' . most reliable as .well as the nerviest players gaps left!)}' O^Malle}', Doar and .Gilleni This -'  that .'^e ver . wo re a Notre ^ Dam e u h i f 6 rm. Fas t 
on: runningrdown-.punts, a sure tackier, and •puzzle, ;;hpwever,-,was; sbpn.^sqlved.'; Sheehari,.• 
the: headiestMnterference player; on the team, a pro'mi "hen t,'member, of • last year.'s;In'ter-Hall; 
McGlew could always be depended upoii\ was tried at centre and proved a find; Patrick 
and,\yhenever "Fuzzy" was in the game, the Beacom, " the gi'eatest guard the West ever rooters felt confident that-whatever position 

IVOTRE DAME SCHOLA.->riC. 
he occupied would be well taken care of. For two years he played quarter-back, and. no speedier or surer.man ever handled the pigskin. During this lime he never had a fumble, and this too despite the fact that in some of the hardest games he received injuries that would have made many a stronger man quail. His tackling in the open field was "also wonderful, and not once has he failed to bring down his man. This season he played end. How well he played is attested by the fact that no gains were registered in his territory. Early in the season he was pretty well battered up, but pluckily refused to quit the game. His strong point was in boxing the tackle on the offen­sive, and many a run made off tackle \vas due to his clever "boxing." His best game 
•was the Northwestern when his tackling and end runs was a feature. "Fuzz)'-" is 22 years of age, is 5 feet 8 inches in height and weighs 160 pounds 
FRAncis J. SH.-VUGHNESSY (Right End). This year Notre Dame was fortunate in possessing two such ends as ''Shag" and McGlew, and we feel safe in sa3nng that no better pair of ends could be found in any of the colleges. " Shag," tall and powerful, is a whirlwind in action, and a very hard man to stop when carrying the ball. He was one of the best ground gainers of the year, and many long, sensational runs are chalked up to his credit. On jdefensive work he proved a tower of strength, not only in guarding his own position, but also in blocking plays off tackle. He has been chosen by his team­mates to captain the Varsity of '04, a very popular choice with the students, because of his steadiness and the earnestness "with which he enters into the game. This is his second year. The new captain is 2*1 years . old, stands 5 feet 11^-inches in height and weighs 178 pounds. 
Jos. J. CuLLiNAN (Left"Tackle). "Jepers" Cullinan was one of the strong men of the line. His dash and agressiveness and his great ability to smash up plays hurled against tackle made him a very valuable man, and but few gains were made through, him. His ground-gaining abilities were also a strong factor in Notre Dame's success, and seldom did he tail when called upon for a gain. "Jepers" ^is one of the hardest and most conscientious players on . the team. If he continues to improve during the season of '04, as well ds. he did the past, he will have few equals on the western gridiron. Joe is twenty-three years old, weighs 177 pounds, and stands five feet ten inches. He has been elected alternate captain for next season. 
FRANCIS J. LONERGAN (Right Half). Not since the days of the famous "Tiger 
Lilly," John Farley, has such a dashing half­back been seen on our gridiron as the rooters' "idol," "Happy" Lonergan. This year he was changed from end to half-back, which proved to be a wise move, as he was the best and most consistent ground gainer of the year. Quick to take advantage of any opening, and a clever dodger, he made many long runs which thrilled the bystanders and caused the rooters to rejoice. His playing in the Northwestern game was sensational, and those who witnessed it will never forget his long end runs and brilliant defensive playing which were the chief features of that famous' game. "Happy" is twenty-two years old, weighs 168 pounds, and is five feet ten inches high. This is his third year. 
GEORGE T. NYERE (Left-Half). . Nyere, like his team-mate, Lonergan, is a dodger and squirmer of the first class. Many of the touchdowns scored by the Gold and Blue can be credited to his long runs. He is very quick on his feet, a hard man to down; but his strongest points are in running^ back punts and in tackling in the open field, in which departments he ranks among the first. This is also his third year of Varsity football. He is twenty-two years of age, stands five feet nine and a half inches in height and tips 1:he scales at one-hundred and sixty-five pounds. ARTHUR STEINER (Right Tackle). 
The line-men seldom if ever get their due amount of credit, although in most cases they are responsible for the star plays of others. Steiner was not a "grand stand" player, but one of those earnest, steady pluggers who play good ball from beginning to end, without any flourishing, and a very difiScult proposi­tion for anyone to handle. He'is also one of the coolest and headiest players on the team. Steiner also deserves unbounded praise for the spirit he manifested early in the season, when we were in need of veterans, he donned a suit" and came to the rescue, although he had previously announced his intention of quitting the game because of the number of heavy classes he was obliged to carry, this being his senior year. This was his third year on the team. He is-twenty-two years old, five feet eight inches in height, and weighs one-hundred and seventy-five pounds. 
NATE SILVER (Quarter-back). The "baby" of the team makes up for his lack of. stature and weight by his quickness and, aggressiveness. He filled the place of the crack quarter, McGlew, in a very creditable manner, and" rarely made a misplay. In call­ing signals also he displayed good judgment, while his running back punts and tackling were of the' highest order. This is/but his second year. He vveighs 150 pounds, and his height is five-feet seven inches. 
24.8 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
NICHOLAS FURLONG (Right Guard). 
Nick is one of the lightest linemen in the business, but despite his lack of weight he was one of the strongest men in the line. His determination and pluck helped him against many-a man of twice his weight, and especially on defense when he put up his best game. Nick is twenty-two years old, five feet nine inches in height and weighs i6o pounds. This was his second year. 
PATRICK BEACOM (Left Guard). 

"The greatest guard the West ever knew," was the song the rooters sang about Beacom, and he^ certainly lived up to the reputation they gave him. Of herculean strength and unusually active for such a big man, Patrick was the mainstay of the team, doing brilliant work all season. This was his first year, and judging from his work, he is the most valuable man we have had in years. He weighs 215 pounds, is six feet two and a half inches in height and twenty-two years old. 
CLARENCE J. SHEEHAN (Centre). Sheehan was the "find" of the squad. He put up a steady, aggressive article of football all season, and handled the pigskin in clever style for a new man. He is twenty years old, is six feet tall, and weighs 180 pounds. EDWARD MCDERMOTT (Half-Back). Ed. showed his mettle last season, but this year he did not arrive until rather late, and was given but few opportunities to display his abilities. He is a half of the slashing, driving order, and a star at smashing interference. 
LAURENCE MCINERNY (End). 

Mclnerny came from Elgin High School where he had some experience as an end. He is a strong player on defense, and gives promise of developing into a first-class, all-round man. He earned his monogram in the DePauw game. 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER (Tackle). 

"Mike,".who played a good game at tackle last season, was compelled to lay off because of injuries. In the Northwestern game he was forced to retire before the close of the first half because of a bad knee. . 
RICHARD VV. DONOVAN (Half). 

Donovan earned his monogram in the DePauw game. He is a strong, willing player and with a little more experience should become a good back. Last year he was full back on St. Vincent's college team of Chicago. 
JOHN P. O'PHELAN (Guard). 

- O'Phelan, the Inter-Hall star of last year, won an N. D. in the DePauw game through his aggressiveness and speed. He is one of the "grittiest" men of the squad. 
Now a few words about the spirited men of the Reserves, often erroneously called the "Scrubs." Draper, Funk, and Dillon played in a few of the minor games, and convinced 
•us that they had in them the proper stuff The others, Neizer, Kasper, and Bracken were not so fortunate, but this did not deter them from remaining loyal to the" end, for which they merit all the more praise. Conway and Kane were also out in this squad for a while. 
One thing that impresses a person in look­ing over the line-ups of the different games played, is the small number of changes neces­sitated by injuries, which goes to prove that the men were in the best of physical con­dition. This was a large factor in the success ot our eleven, and to Trainer Holland is Hue the credit for the splendid physical condition enjoyed by the men all season. 

Manager Daly must also come in for his share of praise. He bore the brunt of the work, arranging dates, purchasing supplies, attending to little details here and there, and he came out of the ordeal with flying colors. 
In  closing,  the  SCHOLASTIC,  in  behalf  of  
the  Faculty  and  the  entire  student  body,  
congratulates  the  gentlemen  of  this  year's  

squad, both the regulars and reserves, upon their splendid record, and wishes them a merry Christmas and a happy and prosperous New Year! JOSEPH P. O'REILLY. 
Personals. 

—Father Evers '79, pastor of St, Andrew's Church, New York City, stopped off to visit Notre Dame on his return from Chicago. His many friends among the faculty and students were glad to see him. 
—In the educational number of the St. Louis Western Watchman appears the picture and graduating address of Mr. Robert E. Hanley; a genial and versatile member of last year's class. On reading Mr. Hanley's address in the SCHOLASTIC, the editor of the St. Louis paper wrote to Notre Dame for permission to reprint it, which he obtained. We take pleasure in quoting the following introductory comment: 
- Robert E. Hanley's graduating address at Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind., last June, will be read with interest by all who reside in that vast stretch of territory ceded to this country by Napoleon just a hundred years ago. His subject was: "Economic Developments, of the Louisiana Purchase." Mr. Hanley resides with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. K J. Hanley, at Wardner, Idaho. He entered Notre Dame University m 1899, having made his preparatory studies with the Jesuits in Spokane; in June, 1903, he was graduated, receiving the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy.. During his stay at Notre Dame he was prominent in athletics, in debate and m class affairs, and was one of the most popular members of his clsss. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus, South Bend, Ind., council. It is Mr. Hanley's intention to study law. 
NOTE.—Other personals, reports of concerts, society meetings aud card of sympathy are excluded for want of space and will appear • in our next issue.—ED. 





