^N^^€pgt4^ 
te 
IXJi 
14. 
\^ *r;»­
^l i i<^^ 

llttWiilWB 
Wapas 
How the stars got started 


agree wm m 
Start smoking Camels yourself! 
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! 
7>/AA/ ANY OTNBfK C/GARBTTE/ 
See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you! 
WHAT does 
"One Man *7eU AnaUten."? 
Buy your GIFTS 
at Gilbert's 
HIckey Freeman Clothes 
Dobbs Hats 
Countess Mara Ties 
Daniel Hays Gloves 
Ronson Lighters 
Dunhill Pipes 
Interwoven Hose Arrow Shirts Gilbert Gift Certificates All Electric Shavers Wilson Bros. Faultless 
Pajamas Florsheim Shoes Alligator Rainwear Swank Cuff Links Hickock Tie Clasps Kings Men Shave Lotion" Cashmere Sweaters MacGregor Jackets Grand Slam Golf Clubs Paris Belts ' Imported Gift Items 
for Men Shoe Shine Boxes Hand Carved Football 
Mascots 




GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan Take the Michigan Street Bus Open Every Evening Till 9 
Dec. 11, 1953 
Well-Known Reindeer Tells All 
NORTH POLE, ARCTIC. Looking very dapper for an 18-point buck with chalked muzzle and matching white tail assembly. Dasher, famous front-running reindeer for the S. Claus Parcel Service, stated today: 
1- Conditions on the northern tundra are pretty 
much the same as ever. No-o, TV hadn't affected 
the grazing habits of the middle-class herds. 
2.
 That despite reports to the contrary, you don't ever thoroughly adjust to sub-zero weather, regardless of the warm esteem people hold you in. 

3.
 Rumors of a reindeer strike for Christmas Eve are unfounded. Somebody's got a termite in his antler. 


When asked about the most popular Christmas gift down through the years he replied without hesitation: "Menswear by Manhattan, I've helped haul Mr. Claus's sled, roe and buck, nigh unto forever .. . so I ought to know nothing makes a man happier than shirts, sportshirts, ties, pajamas, beachwear or under­wear labeled Manhattan. Don't know whether it's the live style that makes a man look and feel so good, whether it's the traditional tailoring detail, or the array of fabrics, patterns and colors that are all so unmistakeably quality. I'll admit one thing. I've kind of wished sometimes that Manhattan would make deerwear." 

/If. 
JiiLiGA4f> find Book SUop> 
We Sell Truth 
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend 
TAKE CARE OF YOUR 
Christinas Bnying 
AT 
TielEATHER. Shop-
U t W«al WaskinBlM A««. 
All gifts initialed in gold, gift wrapped and mailed or delivered free of charge. 
Shoe Rebuilding Zipper Service 
Washington Shoe Shop 
Right Away Service 
116 W. Washington Ave. 
South Bend 
Hat Cleaning Shoe Dyeing 

GLASSES FITTED 
SATISFAaORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND 
FOR OVER 50 YEARS Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop. 



J. BURKE 
Optometrist 
DR. W. G. BOGARDU5 DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER 
Associates 
228 So. Michigan St. 
The Scholastic 
Congratulations to the 


1953 Fighting Irish 
from the 
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY 
921 Louise Street South Bend, Indiana 



The Huddle 
Congratulates the 1953 Notre Dame football squad 
. . . STOP at the HUDDLE for that little snack between classes 
Dec. 11, 1953 
THE DU PONT 



DIGEST 
Production Supervision 
Requires Knowledge of Materials, Machines, and Men 
Wm W. Kinsley, M.S. in M.E., Penn. State 1949 {left), production supervisor in Du Pont textile fiber plant, is introduced to new operator by foreman. 
Keeping production rolling in a mod­em industrial plant is a job that ap­peals to men trained in many branches of science and engineering. If you are looking for opportunities in this field, you won't have to look far at Du Pont, where more than 1,500 members of the technical staff are engaged in production supervi­sion. 
To qualify, a man must be able to understand both the mechanical and chemical phases of production. In addition, he should be a good planner and, above all, have a knack for work­ing with others. 
Production supervisors are respon­sible for care of plant facilities, sup­ply of raw materials, supervision of operation and maintenance, cost and shipment offinished products, as well as personnel relations, training and safety. 

Siace Du Pont makes over 1,200 products and product lines, it can offer many opportunities in a wide variety of operations to men inter­ested in production supervision. In Du Pont's Organic Chemicals Depart­ment, forexample, mosttechnicalmen start in plant development groups, where they gain a background in both the technical and economic aspects of manufacture. Those with interests and abilities in production may then transfer to that field to acquire fur­ther, and more detailed, experience. Advancement leads to jobs as Build­ing Supervisor, Senior and Chief Su­pervisors, and Superintendent. 
The responsibilities of these super­visory levels vary, depending upon 
George B. Bradshow, Jr., B,S. Ch. E., M.I.T., Asst. Supt., inspects a unit used in ammonia synthesis operation. 
the men, the operation, and the prod­
ucts. 
For example, in manufacturing dyes, up to 50 different operations may be carried out. Production and maintenance must be carefully plaimed and scheduled so that all needs for finished product are met. Temperature, pressure, and quaUty of reactants must be carefully con­trolled to insure that each batch of dye will match previous batches ex­actly. 
In making each color,firom 6 to 10 different imit processes may be called upon. And, in the course of time, all the unit operations known to chemi­cal engineering come into play. Obvi­ously, production supervisors have excellent opportunities to use and ex­pand their technical knowledge and ingenuity. Equally important, they can acqviire background and varied experience that prepare them for ad­vancement to responsible positions in management and administration. 
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at 
DuPont."Newaiustrated booklet de­scribes initial assignments, training and paths of promotion. Just send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wil­mington, Delaware. Also available: "Du Pont Company and the College Graduate" & "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont." 
•E<.U.5.MT.O(C 

BETTBt THINGS FOR BETTER UVING .. . TWOUGM CHEMBinr 
Watch "Cmlcait fftaerica."n Telnisin 
The Scholastic 

MOTHER mki mm DIME TEAM 
December 11, 1953 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
To OUR READERS: 

When eleven members of Notre Dame's 1953 pigskin squad lined up for the first whistle down in Norman, Oklahoma, earUer this Fall, they were opening up the sixty-fifth season of Irish competition iri intercollegiate football. 
And they were conscious of the fact too, that their predecessors—^in the 64 seasons before them—had built a reputation for Notre Dame as one of the oldest and most consistently hard-to-beat football powers in" the nation. They carried quite a number of impressive laurels into that first game with them: 
Notre Dame teams had brought the National Championship back to South Bend seven different times—a feat no other school had equalled in the long history of collegiate football. Notre Dame teams had also won six Western Championship titles, and they had amassed a total of 17 undefeated seasons—ten of them, untied. They had established a record with modem college football's longest string of unbeaten games at 39. 
The Fighting Irish had also turned out more Ail-Americans than any other college or university in the nation. The prowess of Gipp, Crowley and Brown previewed the performances of the immortal four horsemen and their rampage that set the nation's gridirons afire in the early 1920s. Since then, the roster has grown with the names of men hke Carideo, Brill, Connor, Lujack, Fischer and Hart. 
This year's team has done it again—in performances and personalities. 
They have plowed through a suicidal schedule with what we consider as a powerful precision that matches any previous team in Notre Dame's history. At times, when the odds were stacked, they produced the stuff that has earned for them the national recog­nition which they justly deserve. Although not every one of them got All-American honors, every one of them played like it. 
You've noticed, for example, that Notre Dame seldom shook one of its backs loose for long touchdown sprints this season; but they tore opposing teams to shreds with steady power plays and tricky tosses until they finally hit pay dirt. This is the story of teamwork .. . the stor)' that always ends well. 
Looking back, we can truthfully say that it has been another great season. Most people say that this year's team will go down in the record books as one of our greatest. Only time will tell. One thing we do know, however, is that it was made up of the same stuff 64 teams before it had—the will to win. 
We're again reminded of the words former Irish captain Jack Alessandrini once said at a pep rally before a game with Pittsburgh: "We can't be beat when we won't be beat." It's the same principle that wins National Championships and molds AU-Americans. As Knute Rockne put it: "I don't want a man to go in there to die gamely—I want a man to go in there fighting to live!" 
Notre Dame plays so hard—not because she hates to lose, but because she loves to win. 
Editor, the Scholastic. 



Curses, Foiled Again! 
v^harlie Chump was a scrawny Junior who never had any claim to fame on campus. Then, one day, it became known that he had become manager of the Fencing Team. Immedi­ately he was surrounded by a group of incredulous students. 
"How come you're managing the Fencing Team?", asked one of them. 
"Well, it's this way," replied Charlie. "Last week I went down town and got a couple «f Van Heusen VANDUROY S{>ort Shirts... for only $7.95 apiece. When I put on one of my rugged corduroy beauties, I looked so handsome that I was immediately surrounded by all the beautiful co-eds!" 
"Is that a fact," murmured one of his classmates. "But then, all their boyfriends gathered 'round and said, 'Charlie, what would you do if we beat you up?' So I looked 
'em right in the eye and said, 'I'll manage a defense!' " "Gee, what happened?" asked a wide-eyed Freshman. "Just then Angelo, coach of the Fencing Team, walked by. 
He said, 'You managa de fence. Atsa good, da teamsa need a manager!'" 
Students! 
SPECIAL RATES • 

RB ^ A BRAND NEW NEW PORTABLE OR LATE Kcntal 
Pkircbaie 

MODEL STANDARD Plan TYPEWRITER 
All makes of Up to three months rental allowed on Typewriters Rented, purchase price if you decide to buy. Sold and Expertly Serviced. 
SUPER SALES COMPANY 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA PHONE 6-6328 (Next to Sears) 315 W. MONROE ST. 



Scholastic 
Vol. 95 December 11, 1953 No. 11 
Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized ]une 23, 1918. 
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO 
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL 
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN 

PAUL FULLMER „ News FRED C. ECKART Copy JOHN A. ADAMS Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER ...„ Sports JERRY D. BAIER Advertising 
B. JERRY CAMPBELL Circulation BOB FOWLER Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE Photography Co­
ordinator JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator 
SPECIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW STAFF 

CO-EDITORS: Bob Frolicher and Bill Noonan. GAMES: Ken Murpliy, Bob O'Mallcy, Dave Da­vin, I'at Carrico, Jack Sand, Bill Noonan, Bob RuliI, Er»-in Alfonsiis, Dave Kilkcary, Tom Welly. FEATURF.S: Phil Bolin, Pat Carrico, Paul Full­mer, John Slavick. 
BIOGRAPHIES: Cliff Carlson. Dave Cohen, Dick 
C«mnelly. George Dailey, Tim Drvercux, Jack 
Flynn, Jim Gibbons, Jim Mason, Jim Mcintosh, 
Frank Newman, Jim O'Brien, Henry O'Bryan, 
Tom Quiun, Jim Sclilegheck, Ray Wahh, Mike 
Ward. 
PHOTOGRAPHY: Al Balmer, B.>b Iluddleston, B«>J> Markry. Gerry TralTicaniia. Dana Wcithcrs, South Bend Tribune, Associated Press, United Press. ART: Al Balmer, Bob Fowler. ADVERTISING: Jerry Baier. 
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As­locialrd Collegiate Press. -Represented for national adt-rrtising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 42U Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is piiblislied weekly during the^ ichmil year, except during vacation and ex­amiwiliun periods at the University of Notre Datue. Address all mamiscripu to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
OUR COVER: From September to De­cember, thousands of football fans fo­cused their eyes on the 1953 Fighting Irish. In picturing but four members of this team we do not intend to distinguish them as the key men. This was a team which defied distinguishing. It was a great Notre Dame team .. . a worthy addition to the glorious annals of the University's football history. 
« Tht Scholastic 
Fighting Irish Photographs/ 
V Action shots of all games V Pictures of individual players 
All photographs are standard news photos — 8xl0-inch glossy prints 
Only 75c each 
Fill in the order form below and mail to: 
Department of Publications University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 

^IIWTURBOW 
VPPTOMETmST 
p - OPTICAL REPARS ^ I Frames Repaired, Replaced I I Broken Lenses Duplicated I 
I "Bring In The Pieces" I I — EYES EXAMINED — I 207 W. Washington OUver Hotel Phone 4-5777 


Tke mn Cmer 
—^The home of nationally ac­cepted merchandise. 
Arrow Shirts 
. Florsheim & Roblee Shoes 
Campus Clothes 
Lee & Stetson Hots 
R7S€ S KATZ 
#o« 0S» ^ I V»oc«we««v 
MAIM AT COi.rA» 
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA 
WE ARE NEW 

"THE TWINS RESTAURANTS'* 
Prop, by Brother and Sistmr 
Come and Try Our "Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way 
We Also Have Home-Made CaUE Just the Way Yoa Like It! 713 E. LASALLE 
Yoo Alwoys Get o Square 
Deal at Breen's 
WATCHES DIAMONDS 
RADIOS SHAVBS 
EXPKT WATCH REPAIRING 



BREEN'S 
Jeweler 
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630 
NO. OF PHOTOS 
-
DESCRIPTION OF PHOTO 
Oklahoma game Purdue game Pitt game Georgia Tech game Navy game Penn game North Carolina game Iowa giune Southern California game Southern Methodist game Coach Frank Leahy Neil Worden, fb John Lattner, hb Joe Heap, hb Ralph Guglielmi, qb Penza, e (capt.) Hunter, t 
NO. OF DESCRIPTION 
PHOTOS OF PHOTO 
Mavraides, g 
Schrader, c 
Lemek, g 
Varrichione, t 
Mats, e 
To: Department of Publications Univenity of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Enclosed you ^Mul find $ for the 
phOiua uicc&cu. X <uii ajsu enclosing an additional 25 cents to cover mailing costs. 
My name 
City and State 

Parker-Winterrowd thinks you are all— 


All Americans 
Parker-Wiflterrowd 
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS 
Det. 11, 1953 
Max Adler Co. ... the new home of 

Hathaway Shirts 
in South Bend 
For the man who appreciates the finer things. See our dress and sport styles now . . . including the famous Hathaway Viyella washable sport shirts of wool and Egyptian cotton. Viyella Sport Shirts, $13.50. Hathaway Shirts from $5.95 
Michigan at Washington — On the Corner 
Fish, Steaks, Chops 



and Chicken 
At Prices You Will Appreciate 
• 
Our Specialty 
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls 
$1.30 • 

JOE MBienT'S Restaurant 
"Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sundoy 
There are always five expert barbers ready to serve you at Cyr's Barber Shop. 
You can save time by calling for an appoint­ment. Phone 3-0678. 


CYR'S 
BARBER SIhSOP 
South Bend's Leading Barber Shop 
100-102 S. Main St. 
W. E. Cyr, Prop. 
The Scholastic 
^NrMe for 

The AU-Purpose Lounge Suit 
Can be worn in the home, on the beach, for sports, motoring, TV-ing, or just plain COMFORTABLE loafing. 
idealfor college man ...business man ...professional man 
The distinctively different, expertly tailored lounging suit of finest quality corduroy. 
TWO-WAY ZIPPER FRONT CLOSING 
Pays for itself in saving of business suits 
Four luxurious 
colors 
*
 Cardinal Red 

*
 Mistral Blue 

*
 Hunter Green 

*
 Hickory Brown 


ONLY 




S39.95 
with your initial on the pocket 
For prompt delivery, mail your check or Money Order nov/ to: 
WINSTONIAN 
4333 Ravens-wood Ave. Chicago 13, III. 

WINSTONIAN, 4333 RAVENSWOOD AVE., CHICAGO 13, ILLINOIS 
Please send me WINSTONL^NCs) in @ $39.95 ea.* (give color) (In 111. add VJc tax) Chest ir.eas 
NAME Waist meas Length from back ^TRFFT 
neck line (top of shirt collar) to f, CITY floor: 
INITIAL STATE 

*In ordering more than one, attach sheet showing above information on each. 
1954 
ALL-EXPENSE 





Football 
TOURS 

Now open! Join now! Football Saving Club. 
Save weekly for your 1954 vocation. Write to American Trust Co.. South Bend. Mem­ber F.D.I.C. 
For 7954 Foofba// Tour Write 

Earl J. (Pete) REDDEN 
1671 Lincoln Way E. 
South Bend. Indiana 
Notre Home Tours Since 7936 

Dec. 11, 1953 
.-..•w^ 
TAe Scholastic 
l-j' _ . -X'" 



Irish Mp Sooners, 28-21 
By KEN MURPHY 
Norman, Okla., Sept. 26—One-platoon football was back in business in 95 degi-ee heat here this afternoon as the 65th bunch of Fighting Irish to repre­sent the University of Notre Dame sweated out a 28-21 decision over their revenge-bent Oklahoma opponents in the season's inaugural for both squads. 
Trouble started early for Notre Dame when the Sooner kickoif squirmed from All-American Johnny Lattner's grasp and out of bounds on the Irish four yard line. Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi almost engineered his mates out of the hole, but a fumble on the fourth play from scrinmiage by fullback Neil Wor­den going over the middle gave the anxious Sooners the ball on the ND 23. 
Oklahoma made the most of its op­portunity, hitting pay dirt in eight plays. The Irish fonvard wall gave ground grudgingly, but couldn't stop Lariy Grigg's desperation fourth-down shot from six inches out. Automatic Buddy Leake converted, and the Sooners had a 7-0 lead. 
Worden, out to make up for his fumble, carried the ensuing kickoff 46 yards down to the OU 44. Halfback Joe Heap hit Lattner with a 16-yard pass, and the Irish were moving. But on the next play Heap got into the fumb­ling act, and Oklahoma recovered on their own 23. 
The Sooners couldn't stand prosperity, though, and fumbled right back, Irish center Jim Schrader staking claim to the ball on the Oklahoma 42. Guglielmi decided to switch the Irish attack to the air, and promptly lofted to Lattner on the Sooner 12. Heap and Worden moved the pigskin within stx-iking distance on successive four yard bursts and Gugliel­mi bulleted one to Heap for the pay off. Guard "Minnie" Mavraides knotted it at 7-7 with six minutes left in the initial quarter. 
The story the remainder of the quarter and the first five minutes of the second period was largely one of a personal duel—Lattner's booming punts against Boydston's quick kicks. Then, from deep in their OUTI territory, Oklahoma sud­denly struck. The Sooners went almost all the way on one lightning-like play, a long aerial from Leake to end Carl Allison, but Heap dragged the receiver dovm from behind on the Irish 18. Five plays later halfback Jack Ging sliced over tackle for five yards and the TD. Leake made it, 14-7. 
The Irish evened matters again short­ly before the first half ended when one of Boydston's quick-kicks backfired. Tackle Frank Varrichione brok e through the Oklahoma protective wall, and Captain Don Penza recovered the blocked kick on the Sooner nine. Lattner 
Leake Breaks Through ND Defenses 
and Tom McHugh took it down to the five, and Guglielmi, in two tries, carried across. There was one minute and a half to go when Mavi-aides tied it at 14-14. 
The second half turned into a see-saw battle around midfield, with the heat and wind increasing steadily as the contest wore on. In the middle of the third period a Lattner punt ended up on the Sooner 20, and two plays later Notre Dame had taken the lead for the first time in the game. Guglielmi picked off a Leake pass on the Sooner 41 and then turned around and threw one himself, finding Heap downfield on the receiving end for the score. Mav­raides again came through with the all-important extra point and it was ND-21, OU-14. 
The Sooners took the kickoff and managed to run off two plays from scrimmage before Penza started getting in the way again. On the second play Leake fumbled and the Irish captain pounced on the ball on the Oklahoma 38. 
With Heap and Worden doing the bulk of the lugging, the Irish increased their margin to 14 points in seven plays. Worden cut over the right side from the nine for the tally, and Mav­raides converted with three minutes left in the quarter. 
But with a little over five minutes left in the game, the feared Sooner "long strike" materialized as Merill Green ran one of Lattner's punts back 60 yards for a touchdown. Leake's perfect placement brought the Sooners up to a 28-21 deficit. 
Oklahoma threatened to tie the game up with two minutes left on the score­board clock but Lattner came up with a game-saving interception on his owv. 
32. Guglielmi ran out the clock, and 

Guglielmi Smacks Over for Second Irish Score. the Irish had victory number one. 
The Scholastic 

Purdue's Evans Fades To Pass as Leahymen Close In. 

ND Bombs Purdue, 37-7 
By BOB 

West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 3—Notre Dame's Fighting Irish competed with the blazing sun in burning up the turf of Purdue's Eoss-Ade Stadium this afternoon, and the Boilermakers' victory plans collapsed under the weight of a 37-7 pasting by Coach Leahy's poised warriors. 
Thus the Irish added another to their long list of successes in this series with their Southern neighbors. The Boilei-­makers have been scalped no less than 18 times in the 25 game rivalry. 
The partisan gathering of 49,135 likely considered a smooth young ball-handler by the name of Ralph Guglielmi the worst of all villains—and with good reason. The Irish quarterback picked holes in Purdue's befuddled defenses and sent a horde of blue-shirted backs galloping in and out of those holes for 302 yards. Guglielmi connected with his receivers on seven of nine aerials for 99 more yards befoi-e retiring from the combat. 
The Boilermakers took the opening kickoflf, banged their heads against a brick wall for three plays, then punted. Brock's kick fell short in Purdue tei*ri­tory, but the initial Irish drive toward the enemy goal was stymied. After re­gaining possession of the pigskin the Notre Dame offense again faltered, this time at the Purdue 22, and the Irish had to content themselves with a field goal by Minnie Mavraides midway in the first period. 
Two plays later a Schmaling fumble was fielded by Joe Heap on the Purdue 
Dec. 11, 1953 
 O'MALLEY 
29, and the Irish again moved toward the Purdue goal. Heap gained four, Lattner charged to the 14, then to the 11, from where Neil Worden cai-ved out the final yardage. Mavraides added the point, making it 10-0 after ten minutes. The Notre Dame second team finished up the quarter; on the last play of that period Dick Fitzgerald rounded his own right end, reversed his field and finally was hauled down on the Purdue nine after a 46-yard dash. 
Heap scored to open the second period but a clipping penalty nullified the play, and Purdue took ovei% Again the Boiler­makers tangled with the Irish forward wall and came out second best. ND regained possession and once more smashed deep into the Boilennakers' sagging defenses but a Guglielmi fumble on the Purdue 25 stopped the Irish bid. The Boilermakers then jolted the Irish out of their mid-game lethargy with a 75 yard air strike from Roy Evans to John KeiT. Evans' conversion left Pur­due with a mere 7-10 deficit. 
Following that tally Purdue kicked off to John Lattner. The Irish Ail-American grabbed the ball on the 14 and squinned his way down the sidelines 86 yards for the touchdown with white-shirted Boilermakers strewn in his wake. Mavraides' boot made it 17-7. 
The sensational gallop took the heart out of Purdue. In the final minutes of the half, after the first of Tom Carey's two interceptions, Notre Dame pounded out another six points. From the 32, Dick Washington bolted over the right side, cut to his left, and scampered all the way to push ND into a 23-7 margin at the half. 
Early in the third quarter the Boiler­makei-s threatened to get back in the ball game. After an exchange of fum­bles by Schmaling and Lattner, Purdue was seemingly stalled on its own 18 with third and seven. However, Schma­ling suddenly steamed over the middle with a two man convoy, and only a defensive gem by Heap prevented the big fullback from going the distance. Heap ginidgingly but wisely gave ground and slowed up the charge enough to allow Guglielmi to nab Schmaling from behind after a 45 yard journey to the ND 37. From here Evans passed to Brock who received it nicely at his hiding place on the Irish 10 and raced into the end zone—all to no avail, for a holding penalty set the Boilermakers back to their own 48. 
A somewhat embarrassed Irish de­fense stiffened, and Don Penza speared Evans' bobble on the Purdue 42. Heap made a fine catch of Guglielmi's 31 yard toss on the 11. Lattner got six and then Guglielmi smashed over right guard for the final yards. 
Minutes later, with the Boilermakers sputtering deep in their own territory, Eddie Neves' fourth down kick traveled only to the Purdue 17. The wily Gug­lielmi caught the' staggering Boiler­makers off guard with a seven yard pitch to Dan Shannon. Worden covered the remaining distance for the final score of the game with four minutes left in the third period- Mavraides added his fourth straight convei-sion. 
From here on in Coach Leahy took advantage of the 37-7 cushion to test his resei-ves who though stalling on offense, managed to hold the Boiler­makers in check. 
Lattner Leaves Tacklers Sprav^ling 

Heap Stopped After Short Gain Over Middle 
Stubborn Pitt Fails^ 23-14 
By DAVE DAVIN 
Notre Dame, Ind. Oct. 17—On this of junior Paul Matz, Ford romped to 
Indian Summe r afternoon 57,998 the Irish nine yard line before being 
fans in Notre Dame Stadium saw the hauled down from behind. Then, Pitt 
"Fighting Irish" assume the role of sucker-shifted into the single wing 
animal trainer, take up the "whip" of drawing half the Notre Dame line off­
the touchdoixTi, and tame a snarling side. With first down and goal to go 
Pittsburgh Panther pack into very on the four, little Richie McCabe squirt­
docile guests with a 23-14 beating. ed across the chalk line for 6 points. 
At tlie outset, the contest had all the Again Blanda's toe was true and Pitts­ear-marks of a repeat of last year's Pitt burgh led, 14-7. \-ictory. The host team received the In the third quarter, the Irish came kickoff, but failed to crack the stiff to life displaying the form that won Panther defense. To' tliis, Pittsburgh them number one National Honors since replied with a quick, power-packed the season's start. touchdown drive. Henry "Model T" Richie McCabe, while trying to run Ford, fiery quarterback, dug for a out of his own end zone, was nailed by precious 14 yards. Bobby Epps, senior Junior Irish Tackle Frank Varrichione 
Pitt fullback exploded over the right side of his line and was not dragged down until he had picked up 20 yards and another first down on Notre Dame's 
31. A few line crashes put the ball on the eight, and then it was Epps again, using his squat 198 pounds to drag two Irish defenders across the goal with him for the first score of the game. Paul Blanda, brother of the Chicago Bears George, split the uprights and Pitt led early in the first quarter, 7-0. 
Notre Dame, their "Irish" aroused, took the ball 67 yards in a series of short, piston-like jabs by Lattner, Heap and "Bull" Worden and pin-point pass­es by Guglielmi to the Panther goal. Worden then crashed over for the tally. Menil Mavraides converted and the score was 7-7. 
Undaunted, Pittsburgh came roaring back employing every device in the book to jump into the lead. Grabbing a long for a safety, and Notre Dame trailed by five big points. 
For almost the whole third period, the two lines could not seem to open any holes, and both teams were ground to a stand-still. Sophomore tackle Wayne Edmonds then jarred the pig­skin out of the hands of Ford, and Notre Dame Captain Don Penza pounced on the loose ball. With first doA\Ti on the Panther 25, All-American Johnny Latt­ner pitched a long pass to Joe Heap, his running-mate, who was finally dropped on the Pitt six. Joe Heap and Neil Worden dented the line to the one, fi-om where Guglielmi sneaked across for the winning touchdown. Mavraides made his second try for the point good, put­ting Notre Dame in the lead, 16-14. 
The green-clad second contingent took command in the fourth period, under the capable engineering of Tommy Carey. They marched the ball to the Pitt goal, but Sophomore Halfback Dick Wash­ington fumbled, and Pittsburgh re­covered in their own end zone. 
Washington redeemed himself, return­ing Joe Zombek's punt to the Panther 
37. The burly halfback took a hand-off from Carey and went for five more. Carey then hit Washington with a long aerial for 17 more yards, and the Irish were knocking at Pitt's door. 
Coach Frank Leahy, seeking in­surance, recalled the first team, amidst mild protest from the crowd, which promptly proceeded to "ice" the affair. 
After Lattner and Woi-den punched their way to the Pittsburgh nine, Gug­lielmi drifted back to pass, but spot­ting no receiver, outran the defense for the remaining yardage, and the final score. Mavraides made it three in a row, as the clock ticked off the final moments •with the Panthers vainly try­ing to score again. 

Guglielmi pass right out of the hands Panthers' Di Pasquale Gets Nowhere As Array of Irishmen Move In 

Teeh Streak Snapped by Irish Power 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 24.—Fifty­
eight thousand frenzied partisans saw 
modem collegiate football's longest un­
beaten string come to a shattering halt 
at 3:57 CST today, when the destruc­
tive Notre Dame football machine col­
lided head-on with a Georgia Tech 
steamroller at Intersection South Bend. 
The Irish added the fourth step to 
their 1953 victory march in twisting 
the southerners' victorious 31-game ex­
press into a rambling wreck with a 
four-touchdown punch, 27-14. 
The Irish drew blood in the first 
four minutes of the initial period when 
fullback Neil Worden climaxed a down-
field march with a seven-yard touch­
down smash. 
It all began when AU-American half­
back Johnny Lattner returned the 
opening kickoif from his own end-zone 
to the Notre Dame 20. Halfback Joe 
Heap followed up a series of line plays 
with a brilliant 33-yard sprint to the 
Tech 34. Lattner sprang loose on the 
next play for 15, and set up the series 
that produced Worden's TD. Mavi-aides 
split the uprights to put the Irish 
ahead, 7-0, leaving coach Bobby Dodd's 
pupils in a state of shock. 
Another determined Irish bid was in the making at the opening of the sec­ond stanza with Notre Dame resting on the visitors' 19-yard stripe, after a combination of Guglielmi's passing and Lattner and Worden's alternate line thrusts had brought the Irish from deep in their own homeland. But the drive fell short when Leahy ushered in his powerful—^but shy—shock troops, and understudy fullback Tom McHugh fumbled to Tech's Bobby Sherman on the seven. 
The Yellow Jackets came out of the locker room for the second half fired up with the idea of making a ball game of it. Tech knotted the score after seven hectic minutes of razzle-dazzle play in the third period, but Notre Dame shattered Tech hopes by bounc­ing right back with two tallies within five minutes after their visitors had scored. 
Georgia Tech picked up their first touchdown when Wade Mitchell inter­cepted Ralph Guglielmi's aerial on his 30, and then generalled his troops into the Irish end zone 12 plays later. On fourth down, with three yards separat­ing him from pay dirt, Mitchell sneaked across, and finished the task with a placement to tie up the ball game, 7-7. 
Then the mighty Irish got down to business and unleashed a vicious com­bination of ground and aerial power to 
By PATRICK CARRICO 

nation's top rating for the fourth week 
in a row. 
The powerful South Benders uncov­ered a gridiron feast of bread-and­butter ball players for visiting AU-American pickers with a spectacular array of precision power plays that completely stunned the Yellow Jackets. They first ground out a 92-yard goal-ward march and then broke the visitors' backs with a second lightning-fast counter punch that added 14 points to their scoreboard slot. 
Galloping Joe Heap grabbed Tur­ner's kickoff on his own nine and swept up the sidelines to the Notre Dame 44. Then "Bull" Worden rambled for seven; and Lattner marked off four more for a first-and-ten on the Tech 
45. Worden cut through again for eight. Lattner broke over right side for six more, and the march was on. 
Tricky tosser Ealph Guglielmi hit Matz for 14 yards on Tech's nine. Worden rushed again, and Guglielmi hit Heap with a buUet pass in the end zone. Mavraides did the honors, and the score was Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 7. 
Five plays later Notre Dame took advantage of a timely break to score their third touchdown. With their backs to the goal posts Tech attempted to punt. A faulty pass from center bob­bled into the end zone, and massive Irish tackle Art Hunter pounced on it for the score. Mavraides' placement made it 21-7. 
The Georgians made a dramatic bid to stay in the running when Mitchell hit Teas with a 44-yard pass on the ND 10 and the latter went over stand­ing up. Mitchell converted with 13 minutes remaining in the quarter. 
The Irish put the contest on ice, however, when Johnny Lattner remem­bered it was his birthday and cele­brated with a one-yard smash midway in the final period after Notre Dame had moved from their own 35. 
convince everybody they deserved the Heap Smashes for Yardage as Tech Tacklers Close In 
AlfaiWijttj,^,,^ 

U-eH^J^V;^^ 
"  "^^ Ml •  •  •  I,­ 
"O  
'^Xl  •s.  I tw End ol Victoru R  
•i-ir  •  ^  '  
ir^^ l  • '-*.-f--'"'vC •?*>: 'r^^ Vv  #1  ^ i^ ^ .^ ^ ^  «S»5SS  ?'^.  -'.^JdS A  
ly^3if-A7.^^  ••.fe.»^»"*«ifir;  

m f AHD 
•*^­
1*T "v"*" t„ 
-M . :rr 
jtez"" 

fSl*. 
J^Efe-: 
fl.i 
=^v 

s 
Is5i;g:-5N "M 

TKHfiaGRpmNai 
Leahy Stricken at Game; Back in Ac 
-f -i ^" - •. . . 
; -^ >^ -• ' 

Middle End Makes a Dive for "The Heoper" 
All-American Lattner Picks Up a Few More 



Greenshirts Romp Over Middies, 38-7 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 31.—Playing like National Champions for the fifth straight week, Notre Dame's highly precisioned gridiron machine meshed its gears perfectly today as. they ex­ploded with four touchdowns in the sec­ond quarter to poimd out a surpris­ingly simple 38-7 victory over Nav>^ 
The Irish played the entire contest ^vithout their inspirational leader. Coach Frank Leahy, who was con­fined to his home in Long Beach, Ind., where he watched the game on tele­^^sion. But what Notre Dame's coach saw on the turf of the Stadium this afternoon must have been pretty good get well medicine. Assistant Coach Joe McArdle filled in capably for "the Master" as the Irish won their 22nd game from the Middies in the 27-year series. 
Na^^•, though restricted to a stingy eight yards rushing in the first half, and 42 yards passing, gave all they had in the first quarter to hold the unbeaten Irish scoreless. But all they had wasn't near enough in the second quarter as Notre Dame scored four times to lead 26-0 at the end of the first half. 
With the collapse of Navy's once powerful defense Coach McArdle cleaned the bench in the second half as second, third, and fourth stringers played the entire 30 minutes. With two minutes remaining in the final period the Middies scored their lone touch­down to avoid a whitewashing. 
Over all Notre Dame chewed up 316 yards on the ground and 81 through the air, but it was not until the second 
By JACK SAND 

period that they dented the goal line. At this juncture ND's swift left half Joe Heap culminated a 66-yard march by scoring from the Navy one. Guard Menil Mavraides missed the point, and the Irish led, 6-0. 
From this moment on the Middies wished they were back in the land where football is played "just for the fun of it, as Captain Don Penza flopped on a Navy fumble on the Midshipmen's 
49. From here the Irish scored in two plays as quarterback Ealph Guglielmi threw a pair of long passes to Heap, the second going for a touchdo^vn. Mav­raides missed his second placement. 
A few moments later, Guglielmi in­tercepted a Welsh-thrown aerial and galloped 47 yards for Notre Dame's third score. The usually reliable Mav­raides came through this time to give Notre Dame a comfortable 19-0 edge. 
With five minutes left in the first half Notre Dame's capable second team was substituted, but showed little mer­cy, as they drove 32 yards with full­back Tom McHugh smashing over cen­ter for Notre Dame's fourth tally. Quarterback Don Schaefer, who di­rected the march, booted the extra point, and Notre Dame returned to their dressing room at intermissi0nr holding a commanding 26-0 lead.-~-.,_ 
Navy's first venture into Notre Dame Stadium since 1937 was turned into a nightmare as the Irish scored again in the third period, this time- only once. 
ND's third quarterback Tom Carey, squirmed 27 yards on a keep-it play for the TD. McHugh's extra-point try was wide. 
Out in front 32-0 going into the fourth quarter, the Irish coaches tried to respect the traditionalism of the series by clearing the bench. But, the tliird team was not to be outdone. The tally was set up by end Gene Kapish who blocked a Navy punt which in turn was picked up by guard Ed Cook and returned to the Middle eight. Carey and fullback Nick Raich added a few chunks of yardage until Carey fired a three-yard pass to halfback Dick Keller in the end zone. The needless extra point was blocked. 
Navy's consolation touchdo^vn came with 1:50 seconds left to play on a pass and lateral play with Navy full­back Dick Padberg doing the scoring honors. Harmon converted, the score­board read Notre Dame 38, Navy 7. 
The Middies' only advantage over the Irish was in the kicking department. Fullback Joe Gattuso punted four times for a 42-yard average, while Notre Dame kicked only twice for a 28-yard average. It was perhaps Navy's worst offensive display of the year as they were held to a measly 35 yards rushing. In the second half the Middies took to the air against the reserves and completed most of their 13 passesj-and picked up most of their 
...,143 .-yards-gained during-this time. The Irish, predominantly a ground-gaining club, attempted only eight passes, completing two of them for touchdowns. 
The Scholastic 

Lattner Leads ND to Win Over Penn 
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 7—An Ail-American exhibition by AU-American Johnny Lattner nullified Pennsylvania's gallant upset bid on snow-fringed Franklin Field this afternoon as Notre Dame marched unsteadily to its sixth straight win of the season, 28-20. 
A shivering but appreciative crowd of 69,071 saw the 21 year old Chicago se­nior do just about everything a football player can do. He ran kicks back for huge amounts of yardage, smashed for first downs, caught passes, made key tackles and intercepted a Penn pass that seemed touchdowTi bound. 
Lattner's most spectacular contribu­tion to ND's cause came immediately after Penn stunned the crowd and the Irish by rambling down the field for seven points the first time they got their hands on the ball. With the crowd still buzzing their amazement over Penn's drive, Lattner gathei*ed in the ensuing Quaker kickoif on his own eight yard line, sped up the sidelines, re­ceived two nice blocks from Art Hunter and Don Penza on the 20, swivel-hipped his way out of the grasps of two would-be tacklers at the 40 and bi'oke into the open towards the center of the field. Penn's John Cannon missed a desperate lunge on the Red and Blue 25, and the ND halfback sauntered the rest of the way unchallenged. 
The game started with an oddity as the Irish were penalized 15 yards when they were late, coming out on the field. When the kickoflf finally was made by Penn, the nation's No. 1 team could do no better than one first down and was forced to punt. 
Penn took possession of the ball and 61 yards and seven plays later scored 
By BILL NOONAN 
the first touchdown of the game. Ed Gramigna, a daring signal-caller and effective passer all day, completed two passes in the drive which was capped by Walt Hynoski's five yard burst into the end zone. Gramigna converted. 
Penn quick-kicked after receiving the post-Lattner touchdown kickoff and the Irish promptly churned 68 yards for their second touchdown and a 14-7 lead. The march was one of short methodical punches at the Penn line, coupled with two Ealph Guglielmi passes, one to Pen­za, the other to Lattner who made a beauty of a catch on the Quaker six. On a third down keep play, Guglielmi sprung off tackle from the three for the tally. Minnie Mavraides split the up­rights for the second straight time. 
The greenshii-ts moved goalward again the next .time they had the baU. Penn, their attack completely bottled uj), punted to Heap who handed off to Latt­ner. The deceptive Irish star again brought the crowd to its feet by bring­ing the ball back 38 yards before Hy­noski bumped him out of bounds on the Penn 36. In four plays, Guglielmi di­rected his team to the Penn three yard line as the period ended. 
Coach Leahy sent in his second team at the start of the second quarter and Don Schaefer, resei-ve quarterback, sneaked over for the score on the first play for the third Irish TD. On a controversial play, Schaefer ran the extra point over for a 21-7 lead. 
The second team almost engineered a touchdown of their own in the second quarter when it moved 53 yards only to have Schaefer fumble on the Penn two yard line shortly before the half ended. 

The second half started off almost exactly as did the first half. The Red and Blue took the kickoff and marched 67 yards in 12 plays for their second touchdown. The drive which took six minutes was climaxed by a beautiful seven yard pass on fourth down from Gramigna to Bob Felver. Here Gram­igna missed what proved to be an im­portant extra point, and Penn trailed 21-13. 
Another spectacular Lattner run back and two plays from scrimmage and Notre Dame had regained their two touchdown lead. The incomparable Lattner almost duplicated his first quar­ter feat when he carried the Penn kick­off back 56 yards before being pushed into a snow bank on the Penn 26. After Lattner had picked up three, Guglielmi passed 11 yards to Heap who darted away from three Quakers for the re­maining 12 yards and the score. Mav­raides again converted, and the situa­tion seemed well under control. 
Eleven plays after Heap's tally, Penn­sylvania scored their third touchdown. Varaitis was the workhorse of the drive, but the highlight was a 41 yard pass play from Gramigna to Felver. Varaitis scored the touchdown from the one, and Gramigna converted. 
Both teams threatened in the fourth quarter, the Irish led by Lattner, Heap, and Sam Palumbo, stopping three Penn assaults deep in their own territory. Lattner leaped high in the air to inter­cept a Gramigna pass on the goal line to end-the first of these threats. 
The game ended with ND on Penn's 15 after moving 55 yards in 11 plays following an interception by Heap. 
Guglielmi Scores Second Irish Touchdown Quaker Lineman Challenges ND's Worden 
Dec. 11, 1953 

Heap Fights in Vain to Grab a Guglielmi Toss 


Irish Toy With Tar Heels 
By BOB RUHL 
Chapel Hill, N. C, Nov. 14—Notre Dame's high-powered machine drove to its seventh straight victory this after­noon by trampling North Carolina's Tar Heels, 34-14 before 40,000 spectators at beautiful Kenan Stadium. 
The Irish offense was spearheaded by their twin block-busting fullbacks, Neil Worden and Tom McHugh, who carved the Tar Heel line to shreds -with bril­liant driving sorties which accounted for four out of the five Irish touch­downs, each of the fullbacks scoring twice. 
Irish Captain Don Penza won the toss and elected to receive. Halfback Johnny Lattner caught the opening kickoff on the Irish 18 and side-stepped his way to the 32 before being thrown out of bounds. On the first play from scrim­mage Neil Worden blasted for a first dowTi to the Notre Dame 46. Again, on the following play, quarterback Guglielmi elected to hand off to the stocky Worden wfio bulled his way through a wide gap .in the Carolina defense and carried to the Tar Heel 31 before being brought dowTi. 
Lattner and Worden traded running thrusts into the wilting Carolina for­ward wall to move the pigskin to the enemy 18. Left half Joe Heap skirted the left side of the Irish line before finally lateraling to Worden who sprint­ed into the. end zone untouched for the initial Irish- tally. Menil Mavraides added the extra point, and Notre Dame was ahead, 7-0. 
But the Tar Heels were in the mood for retaliation. After taking Mav­raides' kickoif and bringing the ball to their own 21, Lackey and Gravitte dented the Irish line for seven yards. Carolina's signal-caller, Marshall New­man found a loose link in the Notre Dame hard-charging line and sent full­back Lackey through for 53 yards to the Irish 19. Tw^o plays later, NewTnan passed to left end Frye w^ho brought the ball to the 11. 
The Irish line dug in for the coming assault and held the Tar Heels for four downs, taking over on the five yard line. 
The Leahymen moved the ball to the 24, but were forced to kick. Carolina punted right back, and the Irish again started to move. Lattner, Worden and Heap alternated on carrying the ball to the Tar Heel 48, from where Guglielmi completed two passes, one to Shannon on the 35, the other to Heap on the 22 as the quarter ended. 
Coach Leahy substituted his second team at the start of the second quarter. After three plays failed to gain much yardage, r e s e r v e quarterback Don Schaef er sprun g Dick Fitzgerald through the Carolina line on a quick-opener to the ten. On a series of keep-it plays, Schaefer bulled his way into the end zone for a 14-0 Irish lead. 
After an exchange of punts, the Irish took over again on their own 20. Half­back Dick Keller, who had been on the injured list most of the season, broke through a wide hole in the Tar Heel line for 77 yards, but a clipping penalty cut the run to 25 yards. Fitzgerald and Tom McHugh bore the brunt of the offense as it moved to the Carolina two on eight plays. Fullback McHugh tore through the Carolina right side to score the third Irish touchdown. Schaefer kicked his second straight conversion, and Notre Dame was ahead, 21-0. 
After Irish end Walt Cabral kicked off, the Carolinians began to make their first real threat since the first period with the Irish third stringers in action. Long passed to Lackey on the 45, and the big Tar Heel fullback raced to the Irish 30. • Long blasted up the middle for eight more, and a pass interference penalty put the ball on the Irish 15. Newman spotted left end Newi;on clear in the end zone and tossed to him for the first Carolina score. 
Taking the second kickoff, Carolina, spearheaded by Ne^\nnan's passes, inoved to the Notre Dame 33. There, the Irish first team stiffened and took over. 
Notre Dame's backs continued to churn out large chunks of yardage, moving swiftly to the Irish 48. Worden again carried and this time found noth­ing in the way but a clear field. The chunky fullback broke through the middle of the Carolina defense and raced 52 yards for the score. Mav­raides booted the extra point before the quarter ended, and it was ND 28; North Carolina, 7. 
As soon as the fourth quarter started, Notre Dame backs McHugh, Fitzgerald and Keller pounded down to the Caro­lina three, but the Irish attack stalled here and they lost the ball on downis. The Tar Heels still found it impossible to drill holes in the Irish forward wall and punted to Notre Dame's 43. The Irish again displayed their power as Fitzgerald and Schaefer blasted to the Carolina 44. The running attack con­tinued on the march and moved do^\^l to the North Carolina two, before a penalty set them back five yards. Tom Carey broke away to the one, and Mc Hugh banged through the tight Carolina line for the score. McHugh missed the extra point, leaving ND ahead, 34-7. 
With the third Irish team again in action, North Carolina took possession after the kickoff and surged to the ND 40 behind brilliant running by Lackey and Newnnan, Halfback Ken Keller fought his way down to the Irish 17 before being caught from behind. Gra­vitte found Jeff Newton open in the end zone and threw to him for the second Carolina score as the game neared the final whistle. 


XD Ties Iowa in Final Seconds, 14-14 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 21—^Notre Dame's Fighting Irish, previously un­beaten in seven games, came from behind on two occasions today to gain a 14-14 tie with a rugged Iowa eleven. The capacity crowd of 56,478 fans saw the Irish knot the count at seven all in the last two seconds of the first half, and again in the last six seconds of the final stanza to overcome a 14-7 deficit. 
"Gug" Lets Fly Again 

Iowa opened the scoring in the first period after nine minutes, 30 seconds had elapsed, as the Hawkeyes marched 71 yards in eight plays. George (Dusty) Rice intercepted a Guglielmi pass .in Hawkeye territory and returned it to the 44, but a clipping penalty set the lowan's back to their 29. 
After halfback Eddie Vincent's short gain Geoi-ge (Binkey) Breeder broke loose and scampered to the Notre Dame 40 where he was downed by Joe Heap. Quarterback Lou Matykiewicz and Vin­cent picked up two yards apiece, and two seven yard gains by Broeder put the ball on the Irish 22. Rice's ten yard dash moved the Hawks to the 12; from there Vincent lugged the pigskin into the end zone untouched. Jim Free­man's boot was good, and the Hawkeyes led, 7-0. 
Notre Dame threatened early in the second period, but failed to score. Gug­lielmi's passes and the running of Heap and Lattner moved the ball to the Hawk-eye eight yard line, but a Guglielmi pass to Capt. Don Penza was dropped in the end zone. Another pass attempt proved futile, as Iowa center Jerry Hilgenberg broke up the play and de­
By ERWIN ALFONSUS 

mate Bill Fenton to end the threat. 
Finally, with the first half drawing to a close, Lattner returned a Broeder punt 25 yards to his own 41. Gugliel­mi's long pass play to Heap carried the Irish to the Hawkeye 37. Lattner gained five yards, and Worden grabbed one of "Gug's" five successive passes for a first down on the 25. Guglielmi's pass to Heap was ruled complete on the 14, though the ball squirted out of the receiver's arms. 
With seconds remaining, Irish tackle Frank Varrichione let out a squeal, held his back, and fell to the gi'ound. The officials ruled an "injured player'' time out, and the clock was stopped with two seconds left in the half. The Irish had previously exhausted their allotted time-outs. That was all the time the Irish needed, however, for on the next play Guglielmi passed to end Dan Shan­non for the score. Don Schaefer's placement was good, and the half ended with the score tied, 7-7. 
Iowa began their second touchdown march early in the fourth period when Broeder intercepted a Guglielmi pass to Lattner on the Iowa 48. Ci'ash­ing line plays by Broeder and Rice moved the ball to the Notre Dame 42. Vincent advanced another nine yards, and after Broeder had been held with­out gain the Hawkeyes were penalized to their 38 for offside. 
Garet Reichow, who had taken over at quarterback, beautifully faked a pass, but handed off to Broeder instead, and before the stunned Irish defenders could recover, Broeder had moved to the Notre Dame 16 yard line. 
Broeder then ci'ashed through the Irish line for eight more yards, and, in three more drives, reached the six for a first down. Broeder picked up another yard, and Rice moved the ball to the four. From there Bob Steames, who had just come off the bench, took a pitchout from Reichow and passed into the end zone to Frank Gilliam, who snared the ball as he fell to the ground. Freeman's conversion was good, and Iowa led 14-7 with two minutes and six seconds of playing time remaining. 
Then, with possible defeat threaten­ing them, the Irish juggernaut started its goalward march in a race against the clock. Fullback Neil "Worden took the kickoff and returned it 21 yai-ds to his own 42. Heap's pass was deflected by Vincent, but he tried again. and hit Lattner on the Hawkeye 46. Lattner advanced a Guglielmi pass to the Iowa 28, and Heap gathered in another for eight yards. 
Lattner again sneaked a Guglielmi aerial to put the ball within nine yards of paydirt, with but 32 seconds remain­ing. Two passes by "Gug" to Heap were broken up, but with six seconds left in the game, Guglielmi faded back to his left, seemingly to throw to the receiver on that side, but instead pitched to Shannon on the opposite side in the end zone. Shannon made the catch, and Schaefer's second conversion was good to knot the count and the game at 14-14. 
flected the ball into the arms of team-Iowa's Rice Scampers Through Hole in Irish Defense 
Dec. 11, 1953 

Irish Stun Coast Fans; Trample Trojans 
Los Angeles, Nov. 28—The Irish shillelagh came down hard on an upset-minded Southern California team today as Notre Dame bounced back from its tie with Iowa to trample the Trojans, 48-14 before 97,952 shirt-sleeved fans in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. 
Ail-American John Lattner provided 
the spark that sent Notre Dame to its 
eighth victory of the year and eleventh 
game without a setback by scoring four 
touchdowns, for one of the most remark­
able individual performances ever seen 
in the Memorial Coliseum. Lattner 
averaged 9.2-5 yards for the 17 times 
he carried, while Irish quarterback 
Ralph Guglielmi directed the Notre 
Dame attack with an uncanny selection 
of plays which constantly threw the 
Trojans off their feet, enabling the 
backs to catch Inem unaware. The 
hard ninning of fullback Neil Worden, 
who was second to Lattner in rushing 
for the day, and scatback Joe Heap 
added to the fury of the attack. The 
Irish forward wall played its best 
game of the season, continually open­
ing huge holes in the Southern Cal 
defense. 
From the moment Joe Heap rocketed 
94 yards for a touchdouni early in the 
first quarter the outcome was never in 
doubt for the Irish who were directed 
by Assistant Coach Joe McArdle in the 
absence of Coach Leahy who was resting 
at home on doctor's orders. 
Coach Jess HiU's injury-ridden squad was snowed under by a flurry of Irish touchdowns that set a new scoring mai-k for the series between the two schools and also was the highest Irish point total this season. Notre Dame ground out 336 yards by rushing and used only seven passes which were good for 41 yards. The play of halfback Lindon Crowe and tailback Desmond Koch gave the hometown crowd something to cheer 

• about between Irish touchdowns. The ball game got off to a fire­cracker start before 10 minutes had elapsed when Joe Heap gathered in a punt on the six, raced to his left side­line picked up three blockers and wheeled 94 hipswinging yards to a touchdown for the longest run of the year in the Coliseum. Five minutes later Notre Dame scored on nine plays covering 61 yards. A Guglielmi pass to Penza on the Trojan 14 set up the score; two plays later Lattner tallied, taking a pitchout from Guglielmi and skirting the left end for nine yards and 
his first score of the day. Guglielmi added the point and the Irish led, 13-0. 
By DAVE KILKEARY 
Notre Dame second team operating, Koch took a Schaefer punt on his own 27 and raced back 43 yards to the Notre Dame 31. Minutes later on third down and goal, on the Notre Dame five Southern Cal's Koch took a pitchout and went wide around the Notre Dame left end to score, culminating a 30 yard march which took seven plays. Tsag­alakis's kick was good, and the Trojans trailed by six. 
Shortly before the first half the Tro­jans threatened to score again. Deep inside Notre Dame territory, tailback Bozanic faded to pass. The toss, touch­down bound, was grabbed out of the hands of Cal's end Clarke by Irish guard Ray Lemek. The swift lineman fought his way to the Trojan 43 be­fore being hauled down from behind. 
Coach McArdle sent the Irish regulars back in, and they promptly widened the gap. Heap ran the kickoff out to the 
33. After Lattner picked up a first down, Worden took a handoff from Gug­lielmi, hammered over the middle, cut sharply to the left, and raced 54 yards to the Southern California three. Wor­den, on a quick opener bolted over the left side for the marker. The kick was true and the Irish pulled away, 20-7. 
Midway in the third quarter, Haw­thorne fumbled on his own 15, and Paul Matz fell on it for Notre Dame. Lattner moved to the 10. With second and five Guglielmi again pitched out to Lattner around the Trojan right side and he scored standing, Ray Lemek providing the vital block to shake Lattner loose. Two plays were needed for the score. Guglielmi converted and Notre Dame had a 27-7 lead. 

Southern Cal came right back to score on six plays after the kickoff, going 64 yards. Aramis Dandoy picked up the final 13 yards for the tally. Notre Dame got this one back in short order, the power running of Neil Wor­den and the blocking of Art Hunter, highlighting a 61 yard drive to pay dirt. Lattner bulled over right tackle for the score. Guglielmi made it 34-14. 
In the waning moments of the third quarter Aramis Dandoy, attempting to lateral, was nailed and fumbled. Pat Bisceglia fell on the ball in the end zone for the sixth Irish score. Again Guglielmi converted, and Notre Dame continued the rout, 41-14. 
Southern California had a first do^vn on the Irish 24 early in the fourth quarter, but Jim Controtto, trying to skirt the end, Avas trapped in his own backfield. Two Irish linemen knocked him loose from the ball, and Notre Dame recovered on their 35. Guglielmi blasted up to the 50, and on the next play Lattner thundered up the middle, cut and dodged four Southern Cal defend­ers who had good shots at him, and romped 50 yards for the final Irish marker. Jack Lee kicked the point, and the Irish had their eighth win of the campaign, 48-14. 
Early in the second period, with the Irish Scatback Heap Picks Up Steam on 94-yard Gallop 
The Scholastic 

Guglielmi Vaults Over Lattner and Would-Be SMU Tackier 

Leahymen Whip Ponies 
By TOM WELLY 
"The 1953 football team is the great­est Notre Dame ever had." This post-game statement by Coach Frank Leahy summarizes the performance given by his undefeated Irish today as they crushed Southern Methodist, 40-14. A Mustang defense that led the nation for the majority of the '53 campaign was no match for a mighty line and a collection of backs that ripped SMU for 302 yards rushing. Only a danger­ous aerial game kept the Texans in the Notre Dame stadium. 
Johnny LattneT and Neil Worden showed 55,522 amazed fans and a countless number of television view^ers what an AU-American looks like. The pair concluded their Notre Dame foot­ball careers with magnificent perform­ances as they scored five touchdowns between them. Worden's three scores gave him a three-year total of 29 touchdowns—a new Notre Dame record. Lattnei*, a unanimous choice as the outstanding college football player of the- year, gained 84 yards on the ground, scored twice and completed a 55-yard pass to Dan Shannon that set up the first Irish score. 
The Lattner-Shannon aerial came early in the first period after the Mus­tangs could go nowhere on the open­ing series of downs. Tn familiar fash­ion Lattner started to circle his left end, but stopped suddenly and threw a perfect pass to Shannon who went all the way to the SMU four-yard line. Worden scored on the second play fol­lowing an oifside penalty which placed the ball on the one. Menil Mavraides, senior guard, added the first of four placements to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
The score stood until the second pe­riod when ND reaUy went to work. After an 80-yard Irish drive was stop­ped by SMU on their own five, the visi­tors attempted to get some room to roam by throwing a pass on third down. Paul Matz's rattling tackle shook the ball loose from Duane Nutt, and the alert Frank Varrichione fell on the ball for an Irish touchdown. Mavraides misfired on the conversion, and Notre Dame had a 13-0 lead. 
A few minutes later, the Irish again headed goalward. They took an SMU punt to the Notre Dame 32. Five plays and 68 yards later they had their third touchdown. Guglielmi hit Lattner with a 23-yard scoring pass to climax the drive. The play was worked to per­fection as there was not a defensive halfback within ten yards of Lattner when he gathered the pass in for the score. Mavraides made it 20-0. The score remained the same until the ac­tion-packed third quarter which saw three Irishmen and one Mustang cross the goal-line. 
Notre Dame took the second-half kickoif and drove the length of the field in ten plays. Lattner scored on a wide sweep on fourth down from the five-yard line. A fine block by Worden that cut down the Mustangs' defensive end, enabled Lattner to score un­touched. Mavraides added the extra 

point and Notre Dame had a 27-point lead. 
An exchange of scoring opportunities saw the Irish fail to capitalize but not the Mustangs. They entered the scor­ing column from 44 yards out as Nutt passed to Doyle Nix for the touchdown. Ed Bernet's kick made it 27-7. 
The Irish stmck back when Neil Worden climaxed a 63-yard drive by bucking over from the one. This drive featured the running of Don Schaefer and a 42-yard pass play from Gugli­elmi to Schaefer that took the ball aU the way to the 10-yard line. Mavraides made his final try a good one for his 24th conversion of the season. 
The final Irish tally followed a simi­lar pattern. Again a Guglielmi pass set it up, and again Worden took it over. Ray Lemek provided the oppor­tunity with an interception of a Nutt aerial. Guglielmi took full advantage of the opportunity as he passed to Shannon for 31 yards to the Mustang three. Worden scored and Notre Dame was leading 40-7. In an effort to add a score in his final football game. Art Hunter tried the extra-point but it blooped high and far to the left. 
In the final stanza. Southern Meth­odist threw an all-out aerial attack at Notre Dame. Sam Stollenwerck, whose father was the first passer to gain fame with the Mustang Aerial Cir­cuses of the past, started a circus of his own. It worked for one touchdown and many anxious moments for the Irish fans as he flooded the air with his tosses. 
Six first-team members: Captain Don Penza, Johnny Lattner, Neil Worden, Art Hunter, Jim Schrader and Menil Mavraides along with nine other squad members played their final collegiate football game. They made it a good one. 
Leahy and His Irish . . . The Best 

Dec. 11, 1953 25 

Notre Dame's FisSlitini« Irish of 1953 
fc'i iirr|iiif ftdiirniiti 
rit'i iijilir irirf'-'-i "J t.ii«y-»iiifftiitii 
r > III II 17 I 
B^SKS«!IWSS5SSvT"^-<5t"'<i!* :•-.-!', n tmi>i,uv,-' ••«•/, • • smunk, !.if:&^m 
I'laytr I'liolns Ijy liai;by Studios 
First row (left to right): Fred Mangiolordi, Art Hunter, Tom McHugh, Third row: Charlie Keller (manager), Wayne Edmonds, Leo Callaghon, Rockne Morrissey, John Lottner, Bob Rigali, Art Nowock, Don Penza Bill Trozzo, Bob Lasch, Ed Cook, Dick Hendricks, Ben Zajeski, Tony (captain), Neil Worden, Jim Schroder, Bob Martin, Paul Robst, Menil Pasquesi, Sam Palumbo, Don Bucci, Frank Varrichione, Pot Bisceglia, Movroides, Armando Galordo, Joe Bush. Jack Lee, Bob Ready. 
Second row: John Jornot (manager), John GofFney, Bob Taylor, Fourth row: Gene Martell, Joe Markowski, Don Schaefer, Jim Bige-Gene Kapish, Jim Mense, Dick Keller, Nick Raich, Ralph Guglielmi, low, Mike Regan, Bill Schellong, Dick Washington, Jock Dumas, Dan Shannon, Dick Frosor, Paul Motz, Tom Carey, Dick Szymanski, Ray Lemek, John McMullan, George Nicula, Don George, John Joe Heap, Walt Cabral, Dan Hammer (manager). Kegaly, George Wilson. 
fe-v *t < »c** 3ks^^ 
!lf /#" 
13^ 
•c^" 
THE 
PLAYERS 

^^. 
>%.. 
'^'^J^ .V'*'*^ 


Statistics of tlie Season 
ND  TEAM  OPP.  PASS INTERCEPTIONS  
317  Points  Scored  139  No.  Yds.  TD  
206  First  Downs  119  Gugliehni  5  47  1  
155474  First First First  Dounis—Rushing  Downs—Passing  Downs—Penalties  65 46 8  LattnerLemekHeap  4 2 2  4 67 2  0 0 0  
2881616  Yards Times  Rushing  Carried  1207 394  CareySchaefer  2 1  0 37  0 0  
4.7  Yards-per-try  3.1  Szymanski  ;  1  9  .  0  
95S  Yards  Passing  1032  
13763.46017166  Passes Attempted  Passes Completed .—  Completion Percentage  Passes Intercepted by  Yards Int. Returned ...  181 66 .365 7 60  WordenLattnerMcHugh RUSHING  TC  145  134  67  Yds. 859 651 341  Avg. 5.9 4.9 5.1  
3839  TOTAL  OFFENSE  ..  2239  Heap  62  314  5.0  
40  Punts  59  Fitzgerald  56  254  4.5  
1372  Total  Yards  2157  Schaefer  23  100  4.8  
34.3  Average  Length  36.6  Keller  15  91  6.1  
315  Yards  Punts  Returned  .  273  Washington  ,  18  78  4.3  
37  Fumbles  37  Guglielmi  60  74  1.2  
19  Ball  Lost  22  Carey  21  57  2.7  
Raich  8  42  5.3  
SCORING  RigaliBigelow  4 1  11 6  2.8 6.0  
TD  PAT  FG  Pts.  Markowski  1  2  2.0  
Worden  11  0  0  66  Galardo  1  1  LO  
Lattner  9  0  0  54  
HeapGugliehniMavraidesMcHughSchaeferShannonWashington Hunter Keller Carey Bisceglia -. Varrichione  „ ~  7 6 0 3  0 5 24 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  42 41 27 18 18 12 6 6 6 6 6 6  LattnerWordenHeapGuglielmiMcHughKellerShannonMatzGalardo KICKOFF RETURNS No. 8 8 4 2 1 1 1 1 1  Yds. 321 164 76 15 26 8 3 2 2  TD 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
Lee  1  0  1 *2  PUNT RETURNS  
* Safety against  Pitt.  Heap  _ No. 7  Yds. 143  TD 1  
Lattner  10  103  0  
PUNTING  Fitzgerald  —C.  _  4  36  0  
LattnerMcHugh  „ No.  29 6  Ydg. 1014 189  Avg. 35.0 31.5  WashingtonSchaeferGuglielmi  1 1 1  27 6 0  0 0 0  
Schaefer  4  138  34.0  
Gaffney  1  33  33.0  PASSING  
At­ Com­ Had  Inter- 
PASSES CAUGHT  Gugliehni tempted 113  pleted 52  cepted 5  Ym-dage 792  TD 8  Pet. .460  
NC  Yds.  TD  Lattner  2  1  0  55  0  .500  
Heap Lattner  —.  22 14  336 204  5 1  HeapSchaefer  6 8  4 3  1 1  48 39  0 0  .667 .375  
ShannonPenza '. Matz   ...  7 7 5  138 113 61  2 0 0  CareyFitzgerald  7 .— 1  0  3  0 0  24 0  1 0  .429 .000  

Schaefer -1 42 0 
OPPONENTS' FUMBLES^RECOVERED 
Washington 1 16 0 Penza (5), Hunter (3), Matz (2), Palumbo, Schrader, Kapish 1 15 0 Lemek, Worden, Heap, Washington, Lattner, Mangialardi, George 1 14 0 Bisceglia, Varrichione, Shannon, and Mavraides. 
Keller 2 8 1 Worden 1 8 0 BLOCKED PUNTS: Varrichione, Kapish. 
The Scholastic 

Captain • • • Don Penza 
DON PENZA, Notre Dame's 1953 cap­tain and first string right.end, was a fine, steady ball player this season, but more important than that, he was a leader and an inspiration to his teana­mates and to all those who were close to Notre Dame. 
Don received comparatively little publicity during the year, but it's ex­ceedingly doubtful if anyone would deny the fact that he was one of the biggest reasons why the Irish were the best college football team in the na­tion. Extremely modest and self-de­manding, Don always played the game to the hilt. He carried the great re­sponsibility of being Notre Dame's captain with great dignity and honor. 
Don is one of nine Penza children, six boys and three girls. The Penzas live in Kenosha, "Wis. Don attended St. Catherine's High school in Eacine, Wis., where he played three years of varsity football and captained the team in his senior year. 
In 19-51, his sophomore year at Notre Dame, Don played second team of­fensive end behind Jim MutscheUer and Chet Ostrowski. He played enough, how­ever, to earn a monogram. In 19-52, Penza moved up to the first team of­fensive end position. Though most of Notre Dame's pass plays go to the halfbacks, Don managed to prove him­self a dependable receiver, nabbing several vital heaves. His diving catches in last year's Navy and North Caro­lina games were particularly notable. 
This season, Penza caught seven passes for 113 yards. Probably his best attribute, however, is his blocking. A blocker usually gets little or no credit but anyone who watched Penza closely this year could not help but notice the sharpness and precision of his blocks. One of his most noticeable blocks came in- the Penn game' when he and Art Hunter helped to shake John Lattner loose on a 92-yard Mckoff retuj:n. 
Don led the team in the all-impor­tant department of recovering oppo­nent's fumbles with five, and at one time during the season, had a streak of seven straight wins of the pre-game toss of the coin. 
Penza received mention on several AU-American and all-sectional teams. He was named to the first string AU-American on the New York Neivs' team. 
Moose Krause, ND's athletic director, while speaking at the Champions Ball on Dec. 5, summed up the esteem in which Notre Dame holds its 1953 team and captain when he said, "Not only is this team the greatest Notre Dame team I've ever seen, but Don Penza is one of the greatest captains to ever represent Notre Dame in football.'' ­
Dec. 11, 1953 
JIM SCHRADER held down the 
L: "'•:'''
middle spot in the potent Noti-e Dame forward wall this season and won Ail-American rec­ognition for his steady play. "Benjie" was an outstanding line-backer and was a member of the newly-invented defensive 
"I" formation. He saw ironman action in all of the games, swtching from his offensive role last year. He is a senior in the College of Commerce, majoring in domestic marketing. 
JV' 
Art Hunter 
Tom McHugh 

Jim Schroder 
ART HUNTER, a converted 
m right tackle, who saw action as an end last season and as a center in his sophomore season, was a member of the Irish's starting eleven this year. Art's bruising line play, both on of­fense and defense, gained him a berth on several AU-American first teams. His greatest thrill !5 of the season was recovering a Georgia Tech fumble for a touchdown. 
A 

JOE BUSH, a first string of­fensive tackle in 1952, was hin­dered by the switch to one-pla­toon football and didn't see as much action this Pall. A sharp blocker and all-around classy ball player, Joe was particular­ly effective in the Navy game. He also played capably against Purdue and North Carolina. Joe is a senior, majoring in polit­ical science. 
Neil Worden 

JOHN LATTNER, Notre Dame's unanimous All-American choice and most-feared ball­carrier, again led his team­mates. His scintillating touch­down runs on punt retux'ns in the Purdue and Penn contests sparked the Irish to early leads in those games. Again his tre­mendous tackling, clever pass defense, and adequate punting paced the Irish. John is a sen­ior accounting major. 
John Lattner 
THE 

TOM McHUGH was the most potent second string fullback in the country this year. He av­eraged some five yards a crack in backing up Neil Worden. McHugh led all carriers in the Navj'' contest and also starred by scoring two touchdowns in the North Carolina game. Chances are Tom would have been a starter on any other col­lege team. 
NEIL WORDEN has gained well over a mile in rushing in his three years of varsity com­petition. According to unofficial records, he is the all-time Notre Dame scoring leader. The rug­ged fullback is one of the na­tion's most underrated players, although he finally received -A.11­American mention this season. "Bull" scored at least eight touchdowns in each season he played. Neil is a senior in physical education. 

MENIL MAVRAIDES proved to be one of the most versatile Irish linemen. He held down the right guard post and anchored the middle of the line on de­fense. His 14 straight extra points early in the season set a modern Notre Dame record. "Minnie^s" speed enabled him to haul down many ball-carriers from behind. He is a political science Senior. 
Menil Mavraides 
BOB RIGALI, a reserve half­back, though hampered by an injured hip during part of the season, saw action in several games this season. The diminu­tive senior played in the closing minutes of Notre Dame's 28-21 conquest of Oklahoma as well as the Purdue, Navy and North Carolina games. A business ad­ministration major, Bob plans to enter the Navy upon graduation. 

Joe Bush Bob Rigali 
The Scholastic 
FRED MANGIALARDI, ham­pered by injuries incurred in his two previous years of varsity hall, perfoiTned at end this year for the Irish. He won a mono­gram at end as a sophomore. Fred is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters with an economics major. He plans on earning a Law degree following service in the Navy. His best play this season was in the Southern Cal game. 
BOB paw action 

Fred Mangiaiardi 
 MARTIN, smooth south­ quarterback, saw limited  this year in the Navy 
and Southern California games. He directed the reserves in the final minutes and had them moving upfield at the final gun. He is a senior, majoring in so­ciology in the College of Arts and Letters. The signal-caller is from Davenport, Iowa, and is considering the possibility of playing pro football in Canada. 
Bob Martin 
ARMANDO GALARDO is a senior halfback in the College of Commerce. "Army" entered the Navy game in the final min­utes and saw considerable de­fensive action in this period. He has beeii noted for his aggres­sive play. Although "Army" only saw limited action this sea­son, he was a workhorse in daily practices. He is a finance major in the College of Com­merce. 

Armando Galardo 
ART NOWACK, center from Rochester, N. Y., lends strength to the Irish reserve corps. Art is a member of the graduating senior group on the team and will see action with the Old Timers in the annual Spring classic. He saw limited action in the last period of the Navy battle. Art, majoring in phys­ical education, plans to make a career of coaching after grad­uation. 
Art Nowack 
1953 

ROCKNE MORRISSEY, a sen­ior, specialized in defense be­fore the switch to the one pla­toon. "Rock," who played brief­ly in the Navy clash, saw lim­ited action this season partly because' of injuries suffered early in fall practice. Majoring in civil engineering, he followed in the footsteps of his father, Jo­
seph Morrissey, who quarterback unde r Rockne. 
Rockne Morrissey 
PAUL MATZ, first string de­fensive left end last year, earned his second monogram al­ternating at the starting end post with Dan Shannon this season. Matz, a junior in aero­nautical engineering, is from Chicago's Mt. Carmel high school. Matz added to his repu­tation as a top defensive spe­cialist while coming along well on pass receiving. He is a con­stant threat to opposing passers. 
 played  Knute 

FRANK VARRICHIONE is the second member of the potent Irish tackle combination. An­other of Coach Leahy's ironmen, Frank received the Associated Press "Lineman of the Week" award after his top perform­ance in the Pitt game. He copped this all-around job by recovering a Pitt fumble in the end zone for a safety to insure the victory. He is majoring in political science. 
Frank Varrichione 
DAN SHANNON, heralded by the familiar, "Here comes Shan­non," displayed his versatility this season by playing an un­familiar end position. A junior, Dan was the key player in the 14 to 14 tie against Iowa, catch­ing two crucial touchdown passes with seconds remaining- in each half. Shannon, who was an ace line backer in his first two sea­sons, showed he could go both wavs in 19-53. 

Paul Matz Dan Shannon 
Dec. 11, 1953 

RALPH GUGLIELMI  came into  JACK  LEE  made  his  greatest  
his  own  this year  as  one  of the  contribution  to the Notre  Dame  
nation's  slickest  signal  callers  cause  in  the  Iowa  game  when  
and  ball  handlers,  as  well  as  he replaced the injured  Mavrai­ 
doing  a  top-notch job  of  pass­ des at right guard. The diminu­ 
ing.  His  two  touchdown  tosses  tive guard's  fiery  determination  
saved the day in the Iowa game.  served him well in every game.  
On defense  "Gug" proved  to  be  His  sterling  defensive  work  at  
a  capable  pass  defender,  espe­ middle  guard  was  particularly  
cially  in  running  an  errant  noteworthy.  Jack played  middle  
Navy  toss  back 47 yards  for  a  guard  on  1952's  first  string de­ 
score.  Ralph  is  an  Arts  and  fensive' platoon.  He is  a  junior  
Letters  junior, majoring  in  so­ in  the  College  of  Arts  and  
ciology.  Letters.  
Ralph Guglielmi  Jack  Lee  

JOE HEAP, junior speedster DICK SZYMANSKI is the cen­from New Orleans, was the fa­ter on the strong second string vorite target of sharp-shooter eleven. Shining on the first Ralph Guglielmi. He has led all string defensive platoon last receivers for the past two years. year, Dick, a junior, stepped in Joe scored two touchdowns in right behind senior Schraderthis both the Oklahoma and the Fall. He saw action in nearly Navy contests, and ran a punt every Irish game this year; his back 94 yards against USC. His interception of a pass against greatest day, however, was prob­Penn broke up a Quaker bid for ably against Iowa. He is in the a touchdown. Dick is majoring College of Commerce. in business administration. 
Joe Heap Dick Szymanski 
B^OTRE 

SAM PALUMBO probably suf­fered more than any other Irish player because of the sudden return to the one-platoon sys­tem. At the end of last year, Sam was cited as a potential 1953 Ail-American defensively, but he had a hard time adapt­ing himself to offensive play. However, "Sambo" saw a lot of action, and there was no better tackier or harder man to move on the Notre Dame team. 
Sam Palumbo 
WALT CABRAL, a junior end who hails from Hawaii, is major­ing in Physical Education. He saw considerable service in the early games of the year until the Georgia Tech game when his left ankle was badly injured. Besides his regular end duties he did some of the kick-offs and tries for points after touchdowns. He saw limited action after his injury. Walt was principally a defensive end in 1951 and 1952. 
TOM CAREY, the smart little quarterback, a regular in 1952, was forced to stand in the shadow of the brilliant Ralph Guglielmi this year. Neverthe­less, Tom often showed his sparkling initiative especially in his spectacular 30-yard touch­down run against Navy. A junior this year, Tom also showed his capable field generalship by spearheading the final touchdown drive against North Carolina. 
Tom Carey 

BOB READY, a junior in the col­lege of Arts and Letters hailing from Lowell, Mass., is a history major. Bob, a tackle, was out­standing particularly on defense this season. He displayed rugged line play in the Navy, Purdue and North Carolina games. Bob won a monogram as first string de­fensive tackle last year, but this season he saw limited duty due to the conversion to the limited substitution. 
Walt Cobral Bob Ready 
TONY PASQUESI, a reserve right tackle, is a marketing ma­jor in the College of Commerce. He is a standout on defense, and proved to he a valuable as­set in relieving the Irish start­ing forces. A junior who hails from Chicago and St. Philip's High School, Tony saw action in the Irish's victories over the Boilermakers of Purdue and the Midshipmen of Navy. He stands 6'3" and weighs 215 pounds. 
Tony Pasquesi 
DON BUCCI, a junior business administration major in the College of Commerce, cracked through for a first down from his quarterback slot in the open­ing game against Oklahoma's Sooners to feature his year's play, which also included action against Purdue, North Carolina, and Navy. In high school, while earning two monograms, Don was elected captain of both the football and basketball teams. 

Don Bucci 
JIM BIGELOW, a junior quar­terback from Pittsburgh, saw action in the Irish's 38-7 romp over Navy. He played halfback in this game and picked up six yards in his only carry. Jim, who played some great foot­ball for Shaler High, is major­ing in Political Science. An ex­ceptionally fine kicker, Jim did some of the punting in the im­portant Michigan State game of last year. 
DICK FEASOR alternated* be­tween guard and center this sea­son. He saw game action at the guard position in the Oklahoma, Purdue, Pittsburgh, Navy, and North Carolina games. Not too big, his speed aided him greatly in line-backing chores on de­fense, while his rugged blocking enabled him to make the shift from the center slot. He is con­centrating on business admin­istration. 

Dick Frasor 


DAME 

ED COOK, a junior in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, is majoring in Physical Education. A guard, Ed recovered a blocked punt in the Navy game and raced 30 yards to the Middle three-yard line before being brought down. He also saw ac­tion against Purdue and North Carolina. Ed, who also can play center, hopes to become a coach 
after he leaves Notre Dame. 
PAUL ROBST, reserve guard, is a junior, majoring in chem­ical engineering. A member of ND's varsity for three years, Paul has shown himself to be a versatile performer in his brief stints of action. His hard tackles in the final minutes of this year's Navy game were particularly noteworthy. He is a colonel in the campus AFROTC 
unit. 
Paul Robst 
BOB TAYLOR, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, play­ed both guai'd and tackle on this year's team. He appeared in the line-up in both the Navy and the Purdue games. Bob hails from Peldn, HI., and is majoring in economics. While in high school he was second in the state in wrestling. He hopes to enter business after serving in the Air Force. 
Bob Tciylor 

RAY LEMEK, a Commerce school sophomore, was the Irish first string left guard the entire season. Ray, along with Schra­der and Worden, formed one of the best linebacking trios in the nation. He is the fastest lineman on the Irish squad and in the Southern Cal game he inter­cepted a pass in the end zone and ran it back 60 yards. 
Dec. 11, 1953 
DICK FITZGERALD is re­garded as one of the best sopho­more backfield prospects on the team. Possessed with an abun­dance of speed and power, Dick showed plenty of ability as a second string halfback in 1953. He averaged slightly better than five yards per carry in the first eight games. His most spectac­ular contribution was a 50-yard run in the Purdue game. Dick is a Commerce r,tudent. 
*1» 
Wayne Edmonds 
Dick Washington 

GENE KAPISH, sophomore end, played his best game against Navy when he blocked a punt that set up an eventual touch­down. He also saw action against Purdue, Pittsbui-gh, and North Carolina. His slashing de­fensive play has marked him for extensive assignments in next year's plans. He is a student in the College of Commerce. His brother Bob was a monogram end in 1950. 
Dick Fitzgerald Pat Bisceglia 
WAYNE EDMONDS played be­hind AU-American Art Hunter at right tackle. He relieved Art in every game, although having only freshman experience. He especially enjoyed playing in the 23-14 victory over Pittsburgh, since his home is near the Steel city. Wayne is a sophomoi-e in the College of Arts and Letters and figures i^rominently in the plans for the 1954 Fighting Irish. 
DON SCHAEFER, a sophomore quarterback, is in the College of Commerce and hopes to major in marketing. His biggest moment this year was getting into the Pitt game, his first taste of col­lege football. Don scored im­portant touchdowns in the Penn and North Cai-olina contests, but his greatest contributions to the Irish season were his two clutch extra points in the deadlock with Iowa. 

FIGHTIXO 
DICK WASHINGTON, flashy sophomore halfback, had his best day of the year against the Boilemiakers when he broke 
through right tackle, reversed his field and scampered 31 yards for a touchdown. Dick, number two Irish right halfback, was Lattner's capable replacement. Dick averaged around four yai-ds a carry during the sea­son. He is enrolled in the Col­lege of Commerce. 
DICK KELLER, right halfback from Toledo, moved up to the second team post behind Johnny Lattner on the basis of his fine running in the last half of the season. He saw extensive action in the Navy and North Carolina contests. His 77-yard run from scrimmage in the North Caro­lina tussle that was called back was the longest of the year for the Irish. He is a sophomore in Arts and Letters. 
PAT BISCEGLIA, a hard-fighting sophomore guard, backed up Ray Lemek in the Notre Dame forward wall. He played all but a few minutes in the Penn game after replacing the injured Lemek. His big moment though was recovering a USC fumble for a touchdown. At 24, Pat, a senior veteran, is the old­est member on the squad. He is in the Commerce school. 
Don Schaefer 
Dick Keller 
DON GEORGE, a sophomore end, moved up to the number two flanker spot after Cabral suffered an ankle injury in the Tech game. Another of the promising sophs on this year's varsity, Don saw action in al­most every game this season and is expected to fit in well with next year's plans. En­rolled in the College of Com­merce, he hails from Dunbar, Pa. 

Gene Kapish Don George 
The Scholastic 

JIM MENSE, reserve center, lined up behind Schrader and Szjrmanski in the Irish pivot slot. He moved up rapidly after spring practice and saw service in the Purdue, Navy, and North Carolina battles. His offensive play complemented the stout de­fensive work. Jim is a sopho­more in the College of Com­merce. He hails from Hamilton, Ohio and was a standout for the Hamilton Catholic eleven. 
Jim Mense 
JOHN GAFFNEY, a reserve fullback, has been plagued by bad luck all season. Suffering a pulled leg muscle in his second game, the Chicago speedster, noted for shifty, powerful line-bucks and alert pass defense, was sidelined for the remainder of the season with the recurring injury. John is a sophomore in the College of Commerce, and plans to major in Business Ad­ministration. 
John Gaffney 
GEORGE NICULA, a sopho­more in the College of Arts and Letters, was shifted from tackle to guard at the start of the sea­son, and has seen action in most of the games. Though han­dicapped during part of the sea­son by a knee injury, his speed and smashing blocks have kept him in the running. He consid­ers the 27-14 defeat of Georgia Tech as his greatest sports thrill. 

George Nicula 
DICK HENDRICKS, a sopho­more halfback, considers playing in his first college game as the biggest thrill he experienced this year. He saw considerable ac­tion in the Purdue game. Dick, one of the many ND players who come from the state of Illinois, is a pre-med student in the Col­lege of Science. He prepped at Schlarman High in Danville, 111., where he won four football mono­grams. 
Dick Hendricks 


IRISH 

GENE MARTELL is another of the promising tackle candidates developed during this season. He saw action for the first time in a Notre Dame uniform against Pittsburgh. He also performed well in the Navy and the North Carolina games. His capabilities on both offense and defense made him a valuable line re­placement in backing up the 
first  team this season.  He is  a  
soph  in  the  Commerce  school.  
Gene Martell  

BO B LASCH , six-foot-three tackle, saw action in the final quarter of the Navy game. He has gained considerable experi­ence this season and should see more action next year. His of­fensive talent and hard tackling have made him a good bet in one-platoon football. He was an all-state selection in Pennsylva­nia. Bob is in Arts and Letters, planning a career in commer­cial design. 
NICK RAICH is a reserve sophomore fullback from Mil­waukee, Wis. Although Nick saw limited action this year, he proved his ability as a capable backfield replacement. During the latter stages of the Navy game, he capped a fine running day by uncorking two long, twisting runs. In all, he cracked the Middle defense for 34 yards in six carries. Nick is a physical education major. 
Nick Raich 
BEN ZAJESKI, from Chicago, performed in both the Navy and Pittsburgh frays.- During the season. Big Ben was switched from end to a guard spot where he finished up the year. A second year man in the College of Engineering, Zajeski prepped at Mount Carmel where he merited six letters as a track and grid man. He played in the '50 and '51 Chicago city cham­pionship games. 

Bob Lasch Benedict Zajeski 
Dec. 11, 1953 
The Freshmen Team 
By PHIL BOLIN 
Head Coach Terry Brennan 
^m 
••s. 
::?> 
f^^­
Assistant Coach "Blackie" Johnston 
-^t» 

•• I 
1 i 
t 
^­
Assistant Coach Dick Cotter 
36 

Altliough little credit is ever given to the Freshman football team, the young, scrappy first year men played an important role in the great success story of the 1953 Fighting Irish. 
It was largely through their efforts of learning the opposing teams plays each week that tlie Varsity was so well groomed for the big games on Saturday. 
According to Freshman Coach Terry Brennan, the 60 man squad was a typical Notre Dame Freshman team —big, fast, rugged and containing a great desire to play football for Notre Dame in future years. 
Brennan also pi-aised his four assist­ants, Blackie Johnston, Fran Paterra, John Powers and Dick Cotter, for the fine job they did in helping him tutor the huge batch of Freshmen. 
Leading the brigade of tomorrow's stars at end are: Paul Schramm, a 6'2", 217 pound converted tackle from Purcell High in Cincinnati where he won All-State honors; Bob Scannell, a South Bend boy who is six feet tall and tips the scale at 195; and George Kraft, 6'3", 193 pounder from Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. All three boys are fine pass re­ceivers and blockers and will be .in there fighting for varsity honors next year. Other ]n-omising flankmen are Jim Munro, a six foot, 200 pound converted fullback from Chicago; Lou Loncaric, 6'3", 190 pounder from Battle Creek, Michigan; Pete Noznesky, a Phila­delphia boy who is six feet tall and weighs in at 180; and 6'3", 225 pound Mike Dovin from Chicago. 
Filling out the tackle positions with a lot of weight are: Bob Mondron, a 6'3", 225 pounder from South Charles­ton, West Virginia; George Groble, 6'2", 220 pounder from Chicago; and Joe Bosse, 6'2", 220 pounder from Massa­chusetts. Other promising candidates are Bob Salvino, a 6'3", 215 pounder who hails from Chicago where he won All-State honors; and Joe Bihn, a six foot, 215 pounder from San Jose, Cali­fornia. 
Holding down the commanding berths at the guard slots are: Pete McCabe, a 6'1", 215 pounder from Wilmette, Illinois; Tom Zervas, a six foot, 220 pounder from Lakewood, Ohio; Tom Cunningham, a California boy who weighs in at 215, and is six feet tall; and Ed Murphy, a 6'2", 220 pounder from Phoenix where he won All-State honors. Other guard prospects are: 
Dick Lewis, a six foot, 200 pounder; 510", 200 pound Frank Stanitzek from Grand Rapids; Anthony Stockanes, a six foot, 190 pounder from Danville, Illi­nois; Jack King, a West Virginia boy who weighs 215 and stands six feet tall; and Joe Neuhofi" from Dallas, Texas. 
Moving to the center of the frosh line, Byron Beans holds down the number one position. Beans, who comes from Ada, Oklahoma where he won All-State honors and played on a State Champion­ship team for two years in a row, is 61" and tips the scales at 230. Follow­ing Beans is Lou Carabine, a 6'2", 215 pounder from Gary, Indiana who is the brother of the former ND safety man. Gene Carabine; Ed Sullivan, a 6 foot, 190 pounder from Pennsylvania; Bob Coyne from Joliet, Illinois who stands 61", and weighs 200 pounds; and Beraie Lyons, a 6'2", 212-pound Miami, Flor­ida boy. 
Shifting to the backfield, Paul Hor­nung from Louisville is number one quarterback. Paul, who is a fine passer and an excellent punter, is 6'2" tall, and weighs in at 202. Following closely behind Hornung at quarterback are Jack Witucki, a six foot, 185 pounder from Tulsa and Bill Cooke, a 6-foot, 190 pounder from Texas who is also an excellent punter. Other quarterbacks who have looked good are: Pat Flood from Tucson and Jim McDonnell. 
Running from the halfback slots are seven potential Irish stars led by Claude Chaney, a hard running 6'2", 190 pounder from Ohio; Sherrill Sipes, a speedy flash from Louisville; and Jim Morse and Gerald Gerami, a pair of fast, shifty scat backs from Michigan and Louisiana, respectively. Other top-ranking performers are: Buddy Ward, a slick 160 pounder from Van Dyke, Michigan; Dean Studer from Montana; Bill Rigali whose older brother Bob is a member of the varsity backfield; and Jim Gormley a 190 pounder from India­napolis. 
Running from the fullback slot is Frank Pinn a 510", 190 pounder from Chicago where he played under Terry Brennan at Mt. Carmel and won All-State honors. Dave Kaiser, a speedy 61", 205 pounder from Michigan; Tom Hughes from Portland; and Frank Har­rison, a shifty, hard runner from Dallas, are other fullbacks verj'- much in the picture. 
The Scholastic 
b." 
J^ 

1, .4' 
t&i; 
&^m 
THE 
i-"rJ 

^^^^'Z^^-^^l^'? 
COACHES 

•"&>* 
i^ 
lS*<^i 
^ft*-^ 
i£5s^ 
v«iS,- -JsV^l^i^ 

'+«^a?a^'.^;^"'-' ''"'^^' 
^^p^v 

JOHN DEUZE, end coach and chief scout, sees the Irish in action in only their final game of the season, for on every other Saturday he is in a for­eign pressbox, scouting future opponents. Druze joined the No­tre Dame coaching staff for a year in 1941, returning in 1945 after sei-\'ing in the navy. He played end on the famous "Seven Blocks of Granite" during his college days at Fordham. 
Bill Earley 

BILL EARLEY, backfield coach for the Irish, has the task of keeping the substitutes ready for action on the sidelines dur­ing the games. A three-mono­gram winner, and a right half­back on Head Coach Leahy's first two Irish elevens, Earley re­joined his Alma Mater as assist­ant backfield mentor and "B" squad coach in 1946, and Avas switched to full time varsity coaching the following year. 
BOB McBRIDE, tackle coach, handles the phone connected with pressbox and scoreboard during Irish games, gathering infoiTnation about both teams' strength and weaknesses, and passing it on to Coach Leahy. He earned three monograms for the Irish, two as a guard, and the other as a tackle on the 1946 National Championship eleven. Bob joined Leahy's staff in 1949. 
Bob McBride 

WALLY ZIEMBA handles the Irish centers and assists Druze with the scouting duties. Ziem­ba began his playing career at Notre Dame as a monogram-winning tackle, but was switched to center in 1941, and per­formed well enough to receive All-Anierican mention at that position the following year. After a brief stretch in the Ma­rine Corps, he returned to Notre Dame as line coach. 
John Druze Joe McArdie 
JOE McARDLE, who handles the guards on the practice field, is stationed in the scoreboard during home games, where he watches the spacing of the team on the field. At games away from home, he keeps tab on the Irish defense from the press-box. McArdle capably took over the head coaching assignment for the ailing Leahy in the Navy and us e games. He came to Notre Dame in 1941. 
FRE D M'lLLER, volunteer coach of the Irish, received his football training at Notre Dame under Knute Rockne, earning three monograms and captain­ing the 1928 squad. He divides his time between his job as president of the Miller High Life Brewing Co. and the Miller Lumber Co. of Milwaukee, and his voluntary coaching duties under his close friend and as­sociate, Leahy. 
John Lujack 
JOHN LUJACK, one of Notre Dame's greatest Ail-Americans spends his Saturday afternoons in the pressbox, watching for weaknesses in the Irish offense. Lujack was an All-American quarterback in '46 and '47, and monogrammed in four sports in his freshman year to be one of four Notre Dame men .to gain such a distinction. He started his coaching career at Notre Dame last year as a backfield tutor. 
Waliy Ziemba 
Fred Miller 

Head Coach Frank Leahy 
The 1953 season has been a rough one for Notre Dame's head coach Frank Leahy, despite the fact that he again guided his Fighting Irish to the heights of college football. The coach was stricken with a severe muscular spasm between the halves of the Geor­gia Tech game on Oct. 24 which caused him to miss two of the six remaining games. 
The illness, however, did not inter­

fere with the Irish mastermind's desire 
to coach his team. When sufficiently 
recovered from his attack, Leahy 
watched his team practice for Navy 
from his sick bed through the courtesy 
of WSBT-TV. The station arranged a 
special closed hookup between Cartier 
Field and the coach's home. That Sat­
urday he also used television to see his 
charges easily dispose of the Middies, 
38-7. 
The coach returned to the sidelines for the next three games but by order of his personal physician, he was forced to forego the trip to Los Angeles for the Southern California game. Again his "lads" came through for him, stomping the Trojans, 48-14. 
Coach Leahy has become an institu­

tion at Notre Dame similar to Knute 
Rockne. In fact, a check of the rec­
ords will show a striking resemblance 
between Leahy's career and that of 
Eockne's. 
In 11 seasons, Leahy-coached Notre 

Dame teams have won 87 games, lost. 
11 and tied nine for an .888 percentage 
excluding ties. Eockne's first 11 Notre 
Dame teams won 86, lost 12 and tied 
five for a percentage of .878. 
Leahy started his football career at Notre Dame as a freshman in 1927. He saw brief varsity action at center in 1928 and was switched to tackle the following year. He played first string that season on an undefeated Eockne team. His playing days were cut short however when he injured his knee in the 1930 pre-season practice sessions. He did not play at all that year. 
The following fall, Leahy was signed as line coach at Georgetown under the late Tommy Mills. Jim Crow­ley was so impressed with the play of Leahy's linemen in the 1931 Michigan State game that he hired him in 1932. Leahy went along with Crowley to Fordham in '33 where he stayed till 1939. During this stretch, Leahy, as line coach helped develop one of foot­ball's all-time great defensive lines, the Seven Blocks of Granite. 
After the 1938 season, Leahy was named head coach at Boston college. 
Dec. 11, 1953 
In two seasons at BC, he directed the Eagles to 20 wins in 22 games and a 19-13 victory over Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1, 1941. 
A little over a month later, Notre Dame signed Leahy to guide the Irish in 1941. He succeeded Elmer Layden. 
Leahy set a pattern for future years in his first season by leading the Irish through the schedule unbeaten. Only a 0-0 tie with Army in the mud at Yan­kee Stadium prevented a perfect record. 
The 1942 season was similar to this year in that the coach was forced to miss several games because of illness. The Irish started slowly that season but recovered sufficiently to wind up with a 7-2-2 record. 
Leahy gained his first National Championship in 1943, winning the first nine games on the schedule before losing to Great Lakes in the finale, 19-14, on a last-minute TD pass. 
After two years in the navy, Leahy returned in 1946 with another National Championship team. A 0-0 tie with mighty Army in the so-called "Game of the Century" marred the record. 
Leahy and the Irish made it two straight by gaining the championship again in 1947 with nary a challenge. In '48, ND had to settle for second behind Michigan because of a 14-14 tie with Southern Cal on the final Saturday. 
In 1949, Leahy had what many con­sidered his greatest team. The Irish swept through nine opponents to walk away with the Championship. 
The season of 1950 was the coach's worst as ND won four, lost four and tied one. Notre Dame came back in 1951, however, with a young team and had a successful 7-2-1 season. 
Notre Dame and Leahy were back in the national limelight in 1952 as the Irish rebounded from an early season tie with Penn and an upset by Pitt to whip some of the nation's best teams. 
Before this season, the majority of the sportswriters chose Notre Dame as the most likely team to win the Na­tional Championship. But the tie with Iowa upset the apple cart, and ND was forced to settle for second place be­hind Maryland. 
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame 
Indiana's Newest and Finest 
-^^m. 
• -I 

t--^sS 
£.^= 

^l&K zuc;
"SlMm Lsi 

It on the campus 
All Open To 

92 Ba+h! Outside The Public 92 Rooms 
Rooms 

V TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned V PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned V BEAUTIFUL PATIO V RADIO IN EVERY ROOM V GOLF PRIVILEGES V CIRCULATING ICE WATER V LARGE PARKING AREA 
Delicious Fooci Delightful Drinks 
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST 
OWNED AND OPERATED BY ARMAND E. LYSAK UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Manager 
The Scholastic 

-:%%^^  
BEHIND  
.1" j*r>^ies;,:ii^fH^i  THE y  
^^ •  SCENES  
•y  
r  
•4  
"I^.^v'  
:-.:»f  
ET  
M>:,  
•:?4^a  

w 

EDWARD W. KRAUSE, better known as "Moose," is the boss man of Notre Dame sports. As Director of Athletics, one of his jobs is going around the country arranging the Irish schedule. His smoothness in public relations has proved an asset to Notre Dame time and time again. 
Krause, who has been the athletic director since 1949, pre­viously coached the Irish basketball squad, but in 1951 turned his full attention to the Directorship. Krause holds the distinction of being one of the few Fighting Irish to capture AU-American honors in two major sports. During his four years at Notre Dame, Krause gained AU-American and All-Midwest honors in football for the '31, '32, and '33 campaigns, and also matched his prowess on the gridiron by being named Ail-American on the national cage squad for three years. 
He appeared in every ND starting football lineup from the second game of the 1931 season till he graduated. Out of 540 possible minutes, "Moose" played 521. 
After his graduation, "Moose" was appointed Athletic Direc­tor and coach of all sports at St. Mary's College in Winona, Minnesota. After completing five successful years at the helm, he switched to a line coaching job at Holy Cross before return­ing to his Alma Mater in 1942 to serve as line coach. After the death of Irish basketball mentor George Keogan that win­ter, Krause was appointed to fill the vacancy. 
He served with the Marines during the Second World War, and resumed his coaching chores in 1946. He helped Leahy as line coach when the Irish captured two straight National Championships. 
Edward W. Krause 

BOB CAHILL, Notre Dame's ticket manager, has one of the most demanding and nerve-racking positions on campus. Filling Notre Dame stadium to its 56,000-seat capacity, supplying Alumni with game ducats, handling fan demands for out-of­town games, is the seemingly endless job for Cahill and his staif of 14. He took over as ticket manager in 1941 after a seven-year stint as assistant to Elmer Layden, fonner athletic director and head football coach. Since 1941, Cahill has estimated that more than six million pasteboards have passed through his hands, a number substan­tially increased this year with a record ten virtual sellouts. Summer vacations are lit­erally non-existent for the ND ticketman who begins his job in early June. Graduated from Notre Dame's College of Commerce in 1934, he planned a career in foreign mar­keting, which goal he realized only for three years after he left the University, when he served as an officer in the U. S. Navy. 
Bob Cahill 

HERB JONES directs a staff of more than 2,000 parking lot attendants, ushers, vendors, ticket takers and sellers, equipment buyers and athletic accountants as the ultimate authority regulating the business and financial affairs of the Athletic 
-Department. When snow storms in the East grounded flights out of the Midwest, and when 100-degree weather in the Southwest necessitated extra light jersies, it was Jones who secured transportation via rail and who stocked the. flimsy slip­overs. These and similar jobs have been part of his every day routine at Notre Dame since the Rockne era. He is one of the best liked and most respected men in college athletic circles. Jones followed two brothers to Notre Dame, During his undergraduate days, he worked as "secretary for Rockne, joining the Athletic De­partment as Assistant Business Manager upon his graduation in 1927. He held this position until 1940, when he assumed his present post. 
Herb Jones 
The Scholastic 

CHARLIE CALLAHAN, Notre Dame's Sports Publicity Director is one of the busiest men behind the success of the Fighting Irish. It is through Callahan's arduous work that the leading publications receive all available information about Irish athletic squads, material which produces some of the greatest sports stars throughout the country. Another job of the Publicity Offic6 is the jurisdiction of the Notre Dame pressbox, considered one of the nation's best. Every Saturday of home games, sportswriters, announcers, television men and other football enthusiasts crowd the box, and it is up to Callahan to have all necessary material available for these men. Every day a constant flow of mail streams in requesting pictures, aU-time records, autographs and statistics, leaving the office with a job that requires accJurate and handy files. Callahan, is ably assisted by his secretary Jo Papa and two students, assistant of sports publicity Jack Sand and Tom Welly. 
Charlie Callahan 

JACK MCALLISTER has been keeping Notre Dame teams out­fitted since the days of Rockne. As Equipment Superintendent, "Mac" must fuss with many de­tails connected with distributing gear to the players. It's his job to see that the Irish equipment is always in tip-top condition. One of his most difficult opera­tions is gathering and packing all this paraphernalia for the away games. 
Jack McAllister 

Senior student managers, JOHN JARNOT, DAN HAM­MER, and CHARLIE KELLER are the guardians of all equipment for the Fighting Irish. The work of these men and their assistants is one of the most important, yet least publicized student extra-curricular activities on campus. Seldom has a manager received credit in proportion to his numerous duties. Under the supervi­sion of Jack McAllister, the managers, headed by Jarnot, keep the players informed about the away-from-home schedule, and other daily itineraries. They must be ready to jump at a moment's notice and equip any 
GENE PASZKIET is the man who takes care of the bumps and bruises the Irish suffer during the season. In his second year as Notre Dame trainer, Gene's skillful treatment of injured players played an important part in keeping the Leahjrmen fit for their rugged ten-game schedule. Paszkiet, a 1950 ND graduate, is always first on the field when an injury occurs or a time out is called. 
Gene Paszkiet 

player from cleats to helmet. The "big brothers" must also keep a close count on class cuts, and a watchful eye around Cartier field during practice hours. The senior managers are aided throughout the season by many underclassmen who are members of the Managers' Association. Jarnot, a journalism major from Buffalo, New York, served a stretch in the Army before enter­ing college. Hammer, a senior in the College of Com­merce, calls East Cleveland, Ohio, his home, while Keller, hailing from Sea Girt, New Jersey, is a senior in the General Program. 
Dan Hammer 

Charlie Keller John Jarnot 
Dec. 11, 1953 
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL POWDER BOXES 
• Small sire $6.75 Pius postage & Insurance $7.25 
O Medium size $7.50 Plus postage & Insurance $8.00 
O Large size $8.50 Pius postage & Insurance $9.00 
N0TRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Name. _ 
Address.. 
City and State n Remittance Enclosed D Send C.O.D. 
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES 
TO TOAST NOTRE DAME 

At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors. 
SEND n 6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25 
D 10 oz. N©. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance $8.75 
D 9 oz. No. 3 Stem Goblet — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25 
n 3/2 oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail—$9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25 
•
 3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25 

•
 14 oz. No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and in­surance $6.20 


n 7/2 oz. No. 7 Old Fashion —$4.75 Doz, plus postage and insurance $6.00 
D 10 02. N©. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance $6.00 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Name 
Address 
City and State _ „ D Remittance Enclosed D Send C.O.D. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBAfeL 
TROPHY STEIN 

Here is a complete tiiree piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND, gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The mini­ature stein can be used as a ciga­rette container or as a novelty along with the "Letter Man." 
Large Stein $4.25 Q 
Miniature Stein 1.50 Q 
Letter Man 1.50 Q 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Name. !.._ 
Address. 
City and State _ _ D Remittance Enclosed D Send C.O.D. 
The Scholastic 

(Left) Notre Dame Band Assembles For Traditional ND; (Right) The Irish Pipers Strut Their StufF Before Drum Major. 
^^Shake Down The Thunder • • .^ 
With the booming ,of the bass drum, the click of the polished shoes, and the sparkling of the instruments, the pre­game and between-half ceremonies of the Irish games vibrated with the music, marching and cheering of the units who help make football Saturdays at Notre Dame colorful and exciting. The pre­game and half-time spots required pre­vailing high-pitched excitement that the teams provoked. Without these per­formances, the overflow throngs at the five ND home games would not have been nearly so impressed with their visit. 
The high-stepping music-making of the marching band, combined with the acrobatic tricks of the cheerleaders, formed a highly potent potion for the football followers. 
The Notre Dame music-makers, rol­ling out of the North runway 108 strong, feature the march-type music which has made them famous through the years. Preceded by the rollicking mascots. Shannon Mike and Pat, the unit is accompanied by the cheerleaders who lend their vocal talents to arousing the crowd. After the opening formation and salute, the band struts up field and brings the crowd to its feet with the world-famous Notre Dame Victory March. Drum Major Jerry Gatto, Parade Marshalls John Giambruno and Charles McCabe, and twirler Dave Novak then direct the members to the sidelines and await the signal to as­semble for the gigantic half-time pre­sentation. 
For the second year. Director Robert 
P. O'Brien has led the Notre Dame 
By PAUL FULLMER 

"Tooting Irish." This year, leading music authorities have tabbed the organization as "the best unit to repre­sent Notre Dame in 20 years." The band drilled five days a week during the marching season that included an extra date because of the additional home game. With the installation of the powerful lighting system in Cartier Field, one of the five two-hour practice sessions was held in the evening to 
ND's Acrobatic Rabble Rousers Form a Victory Pyramid 
assure perfect attendance in ironing out any kinks in the week's show. 
In the home opener with Pittsbnrg:h, the band saluted the three Notre Dame men, George Gipp, Elmer Layden, and Knute Eockne, who were received into the Football Hall of Fame by Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune. In a lively show dedicated to these men, the immortal Four Horsemen also received the plaudits of the crowd. Featuring a Dixieland theme in the Georgia Tech contest, the bandsmen enlivened the proceedings with dances to accompany the melodies. The naati­cal show at the Navy game featured a musical cruise around the world, de­picting stops at Hawaii, India, Parian Ireland, and then back to the U. S. and a salute to the United Nations. 
Although the student trip was can­celled, the band traveled to Philadelphia for the Pennsylvania game. Through popular request the "warm" Dixidand show was repeated in the below-frees­ing, snow-packed stadiom. The members hopped quite briskly to the MuskrtU Ramble as the music echoed across Franklin field. In a salute to the Hawk-eye state, for the Iowa game the band utilized Indian and square dances to complement the music. With a rendi­tion of Ttirkey in the Straw, the hand moved into their final Saturday. A Wild West show, featuring eovrboya, guns, and ten-gallon hats climaxed the final home presentation. 
The kilted Pipers, officially called the Irish Guard, paraded with the band again this year, but did not play thor instruments. They carried silver sabers in the precision patterns. Thdr edlor-ful uniforms, bushy hats, and smart marching made them familiar figures in all band formations. 
While the band kept things hopping before the game and between the halves, six men clad in the gold and blue of Notre Dame kept the spirits of the "Cheering Irish" in high gear whether the team was knocking on touchdown door or digging in for a goal line stand. The cheerleaders undergo competitive examinations eai-ly in the year for the coveted roles. They spend long hours in perfecting their many tumbling rou­tines and varied cheers. Besides the home game chores, the cheerleaders traveled to the Purdue fracas to lend direction *o the senior trip i-ooters. Pe]) rallies also demanded the time of these men. 
Senior Ed Hannan led this year's sideline brigade. Joe Saunders was the only junior among the unit. The bi'other combination of sophomore Bob Keegan and freshman Bill Keegan added a novel touch to the squad. Ed Hatch and Ed Healy, sophomore and freshman, re­spectively, rounded out the unit. Grad­uate student Neil Vasconcelles, last year's leader, contributed his support to the aggregation when the situation re­quired another member. 
For the cheerleaders, the cage season also will mean further effort with con­siderably more games to be directed. Ten home games are on tap with tenta­tive trips arranged for games in nearby Chicago and Milwaukee. 
"The House of Jazz" 
FOR RF.( ()Rn> TR"i 
CUSf^tM^ 
{RECORD BAR 
JAZZ • DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES 
Mich. Miiith Bend Ind. 
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING EARLY 
Biy a BeantiM Boxer Pip to take home 
Fawns and flashy Brindles Sired 
By Champion Clinaud's 
Don Juan II. $75 & $100­
See: MRS. WOODWARD. 
Cafeteria Manager. 

YOUU BE MORE POPUIAR. ^^^'1' 
if you join tlie fun 
at Arthur Murray's 
today 

You'll have the time of your life learning to dance at Arthur Murray's. There are student-teacher parties all the time and gay, get-together dances, too. It's the new way, the Murray way, to learn to dance. It's quicker and easier this way because you start right m danc­ing. You see, Arthur Murray has discovered a simple, basic step that anyone can master in almost no time. So don't miss out on fun and popularity that should be yours. Come in or phone the studio now. 
ARTHUR MURRAY 
120 E. Wayne 2-3339 
NABICHT BROTHERS 

Congratulations to the 
"Fighting Irish" 
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods 
SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood 
OPEN-WEHCDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. 
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M. 
CLOSED SUNDAYS 
South Bend's Oldest Catering Family 
Nabicht Brothers 
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties 
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST 2-3138 
The Scholastic 

of the 1953 fighting Irish 
NO.  NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  AVT.  HOMETOAVN  CLASS  
2  **Carcy,  Thomas  F. _.  QB  20  5-10  175  Chicago,  111.  Jr.  
3  **Guglielmi,  Ralph  V.  QB  19  6-0  180  Columbus,  Ohio  Jr.  
4  Bucci,  Donald  QB  20  6-0  180  Youngstown,  Ohio  Jr.  
6  Martin,  Robert  L. .  QB  21  6-2  185  Davenport,  la.  Sr.  
8  BIgelow,  James  QB  19  5-11  170  Glenshaw,  Pa.  Jr.  
..9  Schaefer,  Donald  T.  QB-HB  19  5-11  183  PitUburgh,  Pa.  —  So.  
14 ••Lattner, John J. _.. 15 Callaghan, Leo IC Morrissey, Rocknc J. ... 2D Galardo, Armando 30 •McHugh, Thomas F. ... 32 Fitzgerald, Richard 33 ^Shannon, Daniel J _.. 34 GalTney, John J. 37 Raich, Nicholas S. 38 Wilson, George A. 40 Keller, Richard W 41 Washington, Richard M. 42 **Heap, Joseph L. 43 Markowski, Joseph 45 Rigali, Robert J. 48 »*Wcrden, Neil J. 49 Hendricks, Richard J. 51 Mcnse, James J. 32 **Szymanski, Richard 53 **Schrader, James L. _'.... 54 Nowack, Arthur C 56 Ck)ok, Edward 59 Regan, Michael J. 60 **Varrichione, Frank 62 Bisceglia, Patrick G. 63 Frasor, Richard 65 **Lee, Jack 66 Robst, Paul K. 67 **Palumbo, Samuel 68 Nakfoor, Patrick R. 70 Martell, Eugene J. 71 Taylor, Robert H. 72 Lemek, Raymond E _ 73 ••Bush, Joseph R. 74 ••Ready, Robert 75 Pasquesi, Anthony L. 77 Nicula, George D. 78 KegaJy, John A 79 Lasch, Robert W. 80 ••Hunter, Arthur 81 George, Dona!d H. 82 Edmonds, Wayne 83 ••Penza, Donald (Capt.) 84 Zajcski, Benedict J. _.. 85 ••Ma\Taides, Mcnil 86 ••Mangialardi, Fred 87 Dumas, Jack 88 •Cabral, Walter K. 89 Kapish, Eugene A.  HB HB HB HB FB HB E FB-HB FB-HB HB HB HB HB FB HB FB HB C C-G C C G E T G C G C-G T T T T-G T T T G-T T T T T E E-T E E G G-E E E E  20 20 20 21 20 20 19 19 19 19 18 18 21 21 21 19 18 20 20 20 20 18 21 22 20 21 20 20 19 19 21 18 20 20 20 19 19 18 20 19 19 21 19 20 20 18 20 18 19  6-1 6-1 5-9 5-10 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-1 5-10 5-11 6-0 6-1 3-11 6-0 5-8 5-11 6-1 5-U 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-0 5-10 5-11 5-11 5-11 6-0 6-4 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-2 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-4 6-0 6-1 6-3 6-1 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-1  190 185 165 170 195 190 190 190 185 185 175 195 180 185 172 185 180 205 212 210 208 210 202 205 190 190 190 195 203 200 208 206 207 208 212 212 204 207 212 226 205 195 200 204 203 193 190 203 193 191  Chicago, 111. Passaic, N. J. Cincinnati, Ohio Watertown, N. Y. Toledo, Ohio Chicago, 111. Chicago, III. Chicago, lU. Milwaukee, Vlis. _ Pblo, III. Toledo, Ohio Vanderhilt, Pa. — Abita Springs, La. Hamilton, Ontario Oak Park, 111. Milwaukee, AVis. ._ Danville, Hi. Hamiltcn, Ohio _ Toledo, Ohio Carnegie, Pa. Rochester, N. Y. _ Philadelphia, Pa. . Buffalo. N. Y. _ Natick, Mass. Worcester, Mass. . Blue Island, lU. _ Medfurd, Mass. — Chicago, 111. Cleveland, Ohio — Lansing, Mich. Midland, Pa. Pekin, III. Siou.x City, la.­_ Oak Park, III. __ Lowell, Mass. Chicago, III. AVarren, Ohio Chicago, III. Clairton, Pa. Akron, Ohio Dunbar, Pa. Canonsburg, Pa. . Kenosha, Wis. Chicago, III. Lowell, Mass. Chicago, 111. Grand Rapids, Mich. Hcnolulu, Hawaii Barberton, Ohio  Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Sr. So. Jr. So. So. So. So. So. _ Jr. So. Sr. Sr. So. So. Jr. Sr. Sr. Jr. So. Jr. So. Jr. Jr. _::__Jr. Jr. So. So. Jr. So. Sr. Jr. Jr. So. So. So. Sr. So. So. Sr. So. -rf— Sr. Sr. So. Jr. So.  
90  'Matz,  Paul  A.  E  6-1  Chicago,  III.  Jr.  

* denotes monograms won in previous years. 
Dec. lly 1953 
They Call Him ^^Sladinm Joe'' 
One of the oldest oldtimers on the Notre Dame campus, Joe Dierickx, who turned 68 on June 22, has been working as foreman and custodian of the Notre Dame stadium since the spring of 1931, just five months after the home of the Fighting Irish was completed in the fall of 1930. 
"Stadium Joe," as he is called, says he answers over a half a million ques­tions to visitors every summer, and with Joe it has now become quite a routine. Ninety percent of the visitors say that the stadium is the best in the country, which is a boast that Joe likes to make. 
Caring for tlie stadium is a year 'round job for Joe. During the football season he employs the help of seven assistants, while in the summertime he has about 10 or 12 students helping him. 
Joe always keeps the playing field in the very best condition. He mows it twice a week and occasionally sods the midfield section which is always the most worn. To all those spectators who often wonder why the shades of grass differ every other five yards, Joe will tell you it's because he mows them in opposite directions, so that the grass will lay from right to left and vice versa, thus causing the two-color effect. 
Oddly enough, Joe never actually sees a home football game although of course he is inside the stadium. There is always same work for him to do, even during a game. Perhaps his roughest assign­ment during a game is te see that the electric systems of the announcer on the sidelines and those which connect the assistant coaches in the pressbox with the head coach on the field, are in per­fect working order. At the same time there are some 66 phones in operation throughout the stadium, any one of which may need attention at one time ©r another. 
Last but net least, Joe is the official ti-a.iner of ND Mascot, Clashmore Mike III, an Irish terrier with as much dis­tinction as the Army mule or the Navy goat. 
Italian Home Cooking 
Five  MinuteB  from  tlie  Campus  
Pizza  Spaghetti  
Ravioli  Chicken  
Chops  Steaks  

CLOSED SUNDAYS 
You're always welcome at . . . 
ROCCO'S 
•537N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line 

The gift that will be welcomed joyously by 
that Notre Dame fan on your Christmas list 
subscription to the 
Hotre Dame 
Scholastic 

Weekly Student News Mas^me 
Each ..ue of .hi. s«c., «'''';X" .^ U DaL news, every year in national ''''^^^^^^^^__, ,.eeHy roundup that .ports, social even.., »u«or andj^^ : j„, d>e Fighting Irish £a„, will be a continual source of pleasure 
whe.her teen-ager or oldster. 

. • •. A , annual Football Review, a included in each subscr.p..on .s he ann special edition that covers 4 e enfre Ir.sh gn 
•11 ,„f with the Christmas issue, and a Your gift subscriptions «U s.a t » * * ^^„^, ,„ ^v e 
letter nodfying the recipients of your gJts " ' ^^.^ 
before Chris^as. We will enclose your own Chnstm d>e letters if you send them to us .« * your order. 
$4.00 for eoch one-year subscription 
Fill in .he Order Form below and mail it today. 
To: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Please send gift subscription to Notre Dame, Indiana Please send gift subscriptions to the following at $4.00 per subscription. I am enclosing $ for 
Address subscriptions. 
• I am also enclosing my own cards City .... 
which I wish to have enclosed with your letter notifying the following of the gift subscriptions they will re­ceive during the coming year. 
Please send gift subscription to 
My name 

Address Address 
City City 
The Scholastic 

ywwwv^ftM<vw^ftlMw^ftM/^a^^aaaw^aaal^M.<^^ 
Microtomic 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION 

kttps pact wiffc fie wM'$ hsiesf ••¥!•§ iadwslries 
Microlomic—Iha ftnast axampl* of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room 

"Rosie's." Here you'll comparisons. Test them lodoyl 
always enjoy the 
Only Microtomic offers you— Italian accent on HI-OENSirr UAOS 
lines are absolutely opaque le 

Fine Food. 
actinic rays. 

MSOLUTELV UNIFORM Every Microtomic of the same degree 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE marking is identical. NEW DUSK GRAY Professional men acclaim It the best 
601 North Niles 
color for a drawing pencil. MILL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier te find — positive identification. 
ALSO '^«VW^^^^W?WW9W99VW^AW?WWW?W?9?7?WW99W9999^^ Choice of holder* and Microlomic leods in all degrees. 
EBERHARD 
since J849

FABER 
J. Paul Slieedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
••*DC MMiKs nEs.u.s-rAT.err. 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test 
HELP WANTED 
MEN and WOMEN: 
URGENT 

We need representatives in your locale to help fill out an organization for business surveys, polls, and public opin­ions. . . . Ideal part time work. . . . Choose your own hours. . . . Your nearest telephone may be your place of business for surveys not requiring the signatures of those interviewed. . . . Send $1 for administrative {fuarantee fee, ap­plication blank, questionnaire, plan of operation, and all details on bow you may manage a survey group for us. . . . GARDEN STATE and NATIONAL SURVEYS, P. O. Box 83, Cedar Grove, New Jersey. 
Here's a sad cotton tale: poor Paul was in a stew about his hare undl his paw wrote: "I ear you got a bun on because your girl left you. Now, lettuce look at the bre'r facts. To get in on the bunny huggin', smart rabbits foot it down to any toilet goods counter for Wildroot Cream-Oil, Anjerica's biggest-selling hare tonic. So fuzz thing tomorrow, invest 29^ SPAGHEHI RAVIOLI in a botde or handy tube. Contains soothing Lanolin. Non­alcoholic. Grooms the hare. Relieves annoying dryness. Re­W1LDR00To|S 
CHICKEN STEAKS 
moves- loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail CREAM-OIL".' 
HJlIt TONIC > 
TFe Cater to Banquets

Test." Sheedy tried Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he's a jump ahead of every Tom, Dick and Harvey. So what're you wait­and Parties ing fur? Get Wildroot Cream-Oil today, and ask for Wildroot 
The new tradition at Notre Dame 
at your barber's. You're bound to like it! 
is... 

:^ of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y. Flamingo Restaurant Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo H, N. Y. Open Sundays 
610 NORTH MICHIGAN 

3 blks. N. of South Shore Station 
Dec. 11, 1953 
Diamonds Jewelry Watches 
J. Trethewey 
JOE, THE JEWELER 
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. BIdg. 

"director" or "directress" billfolds 
Personal leather goods by Rolfs are always appreciated, the "Director" for him—or— the "Directress" lor ner—both 
DR. N. FiZDALE 
baye features galore, (here's the secret 
OPTOMETRIST 
pocket registration against loss, spare key pockets and removable pass and 
EYES EXAMINED 

photo-enclosures. Both billfolds are slim, smartly styled GLASSES FITTED 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 to 2i-Hour Service 
309 S. MICHIGAN 
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477 
^•DIRECTOR" in t C smooth Cowhide. ^ ^ 
CAMERAS 
Others to 
FOUNTAIN PENS 
••DIRECTRESS" iP gleaming Cow-* c 'Plat TOM hide. «P 3 
others to $ 1 0 

HANS/^RINTZSCH 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
128 W. Washington 

RS.O.C 
NOTRE DAME | 

(Big shift oh cahnpus) STUDENTS I 
For the 
V
Best in Italian 
American Dishes 
O 
For the Best of Service 
«5.95 
L
Eat at the . . . 

You'll be a B.M.O.G. in this sport-
VOLCANO 

shirt by Manhattan. The style is 
C 

right, the tailoring has a handsome, 
PIZZA custom flair, and above all, it's dis­OUR 
A 

tinctive. Rayon-Gabardine in a va­SPECIALTY riety of colors. Come in and see 
The 
N 

our complete line of Manhattan's men's appzirel. 
VOLCAl^ 
N T
RESTAURA 219 No. Michig an 

The Scholastic 
low silent is the night? 
Watching the serenity of Christmas skies we are conscious of deep silence. Yet the stars are talking to us all the while—talking in radio waves that are full of meaning to scientists probing the depths of space. 
The important discovery that some stars produce radio waves was made by a Bell Laboratories scientist while exploring atmospheric disturbances which might in­terfere with transoceanic telephone serv­ice. His discovery marked the birth of the fast-growing science of radio astron­omy. It is telling us of mysterious light-less stars that broadcast radio waves, and it promises exciting revelations about vast regions of space concealed by clouds of 
cosmic dust. 

And so from the probings and skills of Bell System scientists and engineers has come another tool to help man understand better the universe in which he lives. These men are a proud team—members of a still larger team engaged in research, engineering and administration and work­ing on telephone problems in all parts of the country. We would like you to con­sider joining them. 
There are employment opportunities A\ath the companies that provide telephone service, with Western Electric, and with the Bell Laboratories. We need young men for the leaders in tomorrow's Bell Tele­phone System. Check today with your Placement Officer for details. 
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
wfo CHESTERFIELD 
Copjfight 1953, LIGGETT & Utas TOBACCO CO. 







