Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 73 Issue 11 8 December 1939 
"Scholastic" Photo by Giedeman 


Monogram Winners, Coaches Seled All Opponent Team 
Hainan, Lansdell are Unanimous Choices 
Never does December roll around without a deluge of "all" football elev­ens. Everybody picks one—sports edi­tors, radio commentators, high school kids, and yes, even football players. They say no one knows mouse traps like the man who builds them. And we main­tain that football players know each other far better than anyone else knows them. After all, you can't see from a box seat whether a guard is falling on his face or being driven to the ground with a merciless forearm shiver; you can't see from the pressbox if an end is really worth his weight in newspaper clippings. With this in mind THE SCHO­LASTIC presents its All-opponent team of 1939, picked by twenty members of this year's Notre Dame varsity. Head Coach Elmer Layden, Manager Neil Geary, Publicitj'^ Director Joe Petritz, Jack Led-den of the South Bend Tribune, and End Coach Joe Benda. 
Ends 
Notre Dame opened the season against a Purdue team that played hard, smashing defensive football. In a line that refused to let the Irish go anywhere in particular all afternoon, Dave Rankin stood out. He broke up passes; he nabbed plunging fullbacks, while pro­tecting his own territory. Bob Winslow, of Southern California, was no stranger to Johnny Kelly and his boys when the Trojans appeared here last month, for last year he played brilliant defensive and offensive football against the Irish. Winslow picked right up where he left off; only an injury at the close of the first half prevented him from shining even brighter than he did. 
Tackles 
Ask any Notre Dame back what op­posing player he met most often on the wrong side of the scrimmage line and he'll name Harry Stella, Army's great tackle. Great as he is in other games, Stella seems to be at his best when he plays against Notre Dame. Mike Enich, of Iowa, was one of the Hawkeyes' 60­minute men this year. He dished out 60 minutes of bruising football to the Irish this fall, and was a big factor in holding Stevenson, Sitko, and company in check. 


Guards 

Well, Harry Smith, of Southern Cal, lived up to the press clippings all right. A couple of hundred pounds of dyna­mite is bound to cause a disturbance in anybody's backyard on Saturday after­noon. Yes, Mr. Smith, you'll do. Car­negie Tech's Bill Reith didn't weigh as much as friend Smith, but he was just as tough. Bored with life in the middle of the line, Eeith spent the afternoon covering the whole field, for everywhere the Notre Dame backs went, there was Mr. Keith. 

Center 

There's no doubt about this one. John Haman, Northwestem's finest center in years, was a unanimous choice. In the^ line or out of the line he was equally effective. 
Backs The Irish lettermen picked five backs. Put these boys on the same team and they'll give any all-star team a run for its money. Grenny Lansdell, of South­ern Cal, had plenty of holes opened for him, but it really didn't make much dif­ference, for time after time he ran over players and through players and even carried them on his back. Merlyn Con­dit, great Carnegie Tech halfback, av­eraged four yards a try against the Irish, carrying the ball on nearly every play. Pres Johnston, of S'.M.U., scored twice against Notre Dame. He picked up the yards when the Mustangs needed them. Don Clawson, Northwestern full­back, impressed the Irish as few sopho­mores ever do. The hardest driving back Notre Dame faced all year, he will bear watching in the future. Well, the Irish couldn't forget Nile Kinnick and his cblfin-comer kicking, the big reason they couldn't get started against the Hawkeyes. 
Lesser Lights 

Other opponents who earned the re­spect of the Irish were: Ends—Bob Ison, Georgia Tech, and Bill Fisk, U.S.C; Tackles—^Al Bergner, Navy, and Pete Dobrus, Carnegie Tech; Guards—^Frank Bykowski, Purdue, Hal Method, North­western, and Neil Cavette, Georgia Tech; Backs — Bob Hoffman, U.S.C, Johnny Bosch, Georgia Tech, Art Front­czak. Army, Ray Mallouf, S.M.U., Mike Byelene, Purdue, Lou Mayo, Navy, George Muha, Carnegie Tech, and Jim Dubuisson, Army.—Eddie Huff 



The Foot in 1 
Nosed Out—John Mclntyre Breaks Through Conversion as C re 
trr. 
ALL OPp 
POSITION NAME 
Left End Dave Rankin 
Left Tackle Harry Stella 
Left Guard Harry Smith 
Center John Haman 
Right Guard Bill Reith 
Right Tackle Mike Enich 
Right End Bob Winslow 
Quarterback Grenny Lansdell 
Left Halfback Nile Kinnick 
Left Halfback Preston Johnston 
Right Halfback Merlyn Condit 
Fullback Don Clawson 
Fieldgoed—John Kelleher Place Kich From 
To Defe 
Splinters From The Pressbox 



Irish Football by Frank Aubrey 
•S" Tech Defenders to Block Muha's Attempted '^ ^irnegie Falls, 7-6 
PPONENTS 
TEAM  VOTES  
Purdue  University  19  
Army  25  
U. Southern  California  21  
Northwestern  U  26  
Carnegie  Tech  12  
Iowa University  16  
U. Southern  California  10  
U. Southern  California  26  
Iowa  University  9  
Southern Methodist U  9  
Carnegie  Tech  21  
Northwestern  U  _  19  

;'M17 Yard Line Early in the Fourth Quarter 
^"^ furdue, 3-0 south Bend "Tribune" Photos 
Years from now many of us will gather round the wassail bowl and bend the elbow to the good old days of '39. 
Practically everybody will have etched into his mind those breathless few sec­onds of the Purdue game while Mike Byelene was travelling loose. Mike was one step away from clear-sailing for a Purdue victory when Piepul's desperate clutch dragged him down—after twenty yards of agony for the Irish stands. Johnny Kelleher had. emerged from the nondescript ranks of the bench to kick the field-goal that gave Notre Dame the lead; it also served to spur an Irish laissez-faire policy for the rest of the game. Anyway, here's to the Purdue game. Bottom's up! 
And of course there was that boy Bosch from Georgia. We didn't know from one moment to the other what he was going to do—or how to stop him. He'd pass—like a bullet to Ison or Gib­son—^then he'd run, or he'd fake both and do the opposite. Best bet was to keep the ball ourselves. Bob Hargrave was the second of our quarterbacks to bloom suddenly. It was Bob who mas­ter-minded those two touchdown sweeps in quick succession in the second quar­ter—and how he laid out those blocks too! How about another round? Sure c'mon—make it a toast—^to the march through Georgia! 

No use pickin' out the high points of the S.M.U. game, fellers. It was one continuous roar from where we sat. Ex­pected the Mustangs to pass and they ran us ragged early in the game while we did the passing. Those two shots from Stevie to Kerr and then to Lou put us in the money. It was anybody's dice all the way through, but we made our point once too often for the south­erners to take the pot. How about one on the house, garcon? 
The snappiest bit of that 400 yards gained through the Navy was the 27 picked up by a little jack-rabbit, Sheri­dan, when he whisked over untouched for the first six markers. But the way the Moose was blasting through that line he piled up enough yards and Navy tacklers to win four games. You've got to hand it to the Midshipmen though— outclassed throughout, they passed beau­tifully in the last period to score. Well, we sunk the Navy, now let's down a few more. Hey, boy! 
We say it's a fine thing on a Catholic campus like this which advocates the ten commandments and the tenets of J. Edgar Hoover when one of our athletes has to resort to common thievery to win a football game. Well then, we de­mand that Bill Kerr return immediately the ball he took from Merlyn Condit at Pittsburgh on October 28, 1939. It's beside the point that Bill won the game with this theft, for we won't give up the game—^will we, boys? Let's have one to bigger and better crimes. 
On the field where Army's Light-horse Harry Wilson turned in some great per­formances we saw another Light-horse Harry hold the spotlight. With his pass­ing and hard-running SteAne turned the Yankee Stadium into another Irish bed­lam this year. While Harry was riding rough-shod over the soldiers' first line of defense, our 1940 right-half hope, Steve Bagarus, grabbed an Army pass and frisked down the chalk-line for the 6-point clincher. A week later another Steve grabbed an Iowa pass but before he got far he was frisked, Iowa falling on the ball near oiu: goal. Sitko saved one threat with this play, but cost a lot of us some gasping moments. Toward the end though Milt Piepul was costing Iowa some gasping moments with his powerful charges. Fill 'em up, Mr., we're a little low right now. 
It took seven attacks to capture the Northwestern gonfalon, but how we did it! That guy Hargrave started things with a 50-yard return of a Wildcat punt. Before that, lil' Benny scam­pered 50, but didn't hit the pay-dirt, and then later sprinted 50 yards across the field to nail Chicago's own DeCorrevont who was away for a touchdown. All three of these plays, however, were but samples of what was yet to come against the Trojans. During that first quarter John D. himself wouldn't have risked a dime on Notre Dame—^it was aU U.S.C. But after the session in the locker-room the old Irish fight began to crop out and it was hell-for-leather the rest of the way. Zipping passes, driving tackles, and solid blocks got us into the ball game. Two perfect plays were run off, one with Sheridan carrying for 60 yards and another by U.S.C. with Schindler carrying. . . . Despite the Trojans relent­less attack, the final gun found us with­in 10 yards of another score — Just wouldn't give up. That calls for an­other one . . . More cokes all around. Mister. 


Irish Gridnien Finish 

Introducing ByPeteSheehan 
Season With 7 Wins 

Varsity football men are before the public eye from September to Decem­ber. Witness a neighborhood gi-idiron fracas and you will hear the kids calling one another, "Zontini," "Sheridan," "Mclntyre," "Riffle," etc. Pick up the newspapers and you'll read about their pigskin achievements. Go to the mo­\aes and see them in action on the screen. Turn on your radio and hear about their favorite cereal. 
What about the "B" team men? Their only claim to fame lies in that worn out campus wise crack, "I was plenty good in high school." 
Prior to the Southern Cal game the papers publicized the sixteen seniors 'who would be making their last appear­ance under the Fighting Irish banner. There wasn't a word about nineteen other seniors who were going to sit on the varsity bench for their first and last time. When the bat­tle was over they ran out with the squad and nobody cheered. No one thought of singing "Auld Lang Syne." 
Yet these boys have never missed a practice in four years. They have played against the varsity — one of the nation's best — not one Saturday a season, but when­ever their coach decided to scrimmage them. Some of them wei'e chosen to emulate Schindler, Kinnick, Condit, Stella, and other opposing stars. This was not a mere honor but a chance to teach the varsity how these men could be 
stopped. 
Some of them are too small for the varsity. Others haven't the speed of Saggau. A few have fumblitis, and the coaches are unable to prescribe a cure. But everyone of them is out there try­ing to make the varsity all the tougher. 
They don't learn the Notre Dame sys­tem, alone. Frequently the- reserves are called on to aid the freshmen and learn the formations of the next oppon­ent. Therefore they cannot employ any system in a smooth, polished, manner. 
Bill Cemey, "B" team coach, works .with, them during the week but scouting duties force him to turn them over to "Jake" Kline whenever they are sched­uled to -play. However, Coach Kline had an easy season as only one game, from an original schedule of five, was played. This was against St. Francis, of Loretto, Pa., and the "B" team won, 13 to 0. 
The "B" squad, however, is not a burying gi-ound for mediocre gridmen. Every man is given his chance to show in practice and when he arrives, he is immediately elevated to an "A" squad berth. "Bunny" McCormick, Paul Mor­
rison, Bill Hofer, and Mario Tonelli are stars of recent years who spent their early days with Bill Cemey's team. Frank Biagi, "Boody" Albert, Johnny Kelleher, Pete Arboit, and Chuck Riffle ai-e all graduates of the reserve squad. 
Let us remember, as we sit in the stadium or by the radio, that there is a "B" squad and that they are an integral part of Notre Dame football. Unlike the "A" squad men their enjoyment on the gridiron is unsupplemented by news­paper clippings, pictures, and autograph huiiters. 

Senior honor-roll: Adamonis, Archer, Aubrey, Blake, Bond, Baddour, Bums, Curran, Hrachovec, Kelly, Karr, Kuhl­man, Liston, Mizerski, Pieri, Saffa, Saitta, Sullivan, Windheim. 
As Elmer Layden sauntered into the athletic storeroom last week and hung his canvas pants and his cleated shoes on a peg until next spring, he must have been a pretty satisfied gentleman. For Elmer Layden had just seen his sixth season as head man of Notre Dame foot­ball come to a close. Looking back to 1934, he pondered on the record books of six seasons—in 54 games played, his teams had won 40 games, lost 11, and tied three against the most gruelling op­position available. And 1939 was as good a year as any of them, with the possible exception of 1938. In the fol­lowing pai-agi-aphs appears a resume of the high spots of that fine season of 1939. 
Notre Dame 3; Purdue 0 

The Boilermakers pitted Brock and Byelene against Saggau and Zontini in a rugged defensive battle which, pro­duced no offensive threats through three quarters. Early in the fourth quarter Thesing turned Rankin's end for 20 yards to carry the Irish attack inside the ten yard line for the first time. On fourth down Layden sent in Johnny Kel­leher, a third string senior quarterback, who lifted himself from anonymity by splitting the uprights from the 17 yard line for the winning field goal. 
Notre Dame 17; Georgia Tech 14 

In the first quarter little Johnny Gu­banich covered a fumble on Tech's 23. On fourth down Harry Stevenson place kicked what ultimately were the decis­ive points from the 27 yard line. The Engineers retaliated, recovering Sag­gau's blocked kick on the Irish 14, then scoring in three slashes at the line. Ector scored the touchdown. 
The Irish then put on their finest of­fensive display of the season. Six plays, Saggau's flat pass to Zontini, and alter­nate spinners by Thesing, Saggau and finally Zontini, produced the touchdown. Zontini added his seventh point from placement. Four more offensive thrusts —one a 24 yard pass from Saggau to Kerr — brought the second touchdown. Zontini place-kicked the seventeenth point. 
In the third quarter Tech recovered a fumble on the Irish 34. Bosch hit Ison with a long pass in the end zone. Tech trailed by only three points, but the Irish staved off a late aerial attack and were on the march when the game ended. 
NOTRE DAME VARSITY SQUAD — 100 MEN — AND A COACH 
Notre Dame 20; Southern Methodist 19 
Presto Johnston rammed home the first Methodist touchdown four minutes after the kickoif—Thesing's fumble on the Irish 15 setting up the play. The Irish erased the seven point deficit three plays later, when Stevenson pitched from midfield to Zontini unmolested on the two yard line. Zontini's placement tied the score. 
In the second quarter the Methodists 
marched 50 yards behind Mallouf's ac­
curate passes. The touchdown came from 
the five yard line when Belville faked a 
plunge, then lateralled to Mallouf who 
ran wide around right end to score. 
Again the Irish evened matters immedi­
ately, as Saggau, Zontini and Piepul 
hammered the Mustang tackles; with 

Piepul bulling the ball across to end the .march from midfield. 
Sheridan and Bagarus, pony halves, ran the Mustang ends to set the stage for Piepul's second touchdown—a ten yard smash through center. Kelleher added the important twentieth point. In the final seconds the Mustangs blocked and recovered Stevenson's punt on the Notre Dame three yard line. Johnston rode over tackle to score standing up but Sanders' conversion flew wide and the Irish continued undefeated, 
Notre Dame 14; Navy 7 
A powerful Irish attack battered Navy's forward wall for 419 yards from scrimmage and 21 first downs. The first touchdown came on the first play of the second half when Sheridan swep't right end for 27 yards. Kelleher added another extra point. Late in the third period, Piepul stepped across from the one-yard line to terminate a 64 yard march—^featured by Zontini's slashes at tackle. 

Navy scored half way through the final quarter. Leonard passed high and long straight down the center to White­head who had worked behind the Notre Dame safety man. The pass was good for 62 yards. Whitehead also scored the seventh Navy point from placement. 
Notre Dame 7; Carnegie Tech 6 

The Irish nosed out the Scots. In the last two minutes Mclntyre placed his face between Muha's tying conversion and the goal posts. The soggy ball bounced nearly to midfield before Kerr recovered to insure the 7-6 victory. Ear­lier in the third quarter Kerr ripped the ball from Condit's arms on the Tech 20 and ran for the touchdown. Zontini booted home the placement which proved the margin of victory. 
Tech scored in the closing moments, crashing downfield from its own 11 yard line. Condit swept right end and reached midfield before Crimmins knifed through two Carnegie blockers to make the tackle. The Irish first team returned and seemingly had the Tartans halted at the 20 yard line when Kerr deflected Condit's fourth down pass. But White came from nowhere to field the loose ball, then twisted to the six yard line. Three plays later Condit plunged across. 
Notre Dame 14; Army 0 

The first quarter was ho-hum; then early in the second period Finneran picked up a fumble on the Army 30. Crimmins and Thesing made it first down on the 20. Stevenson passed to Arboit on the seven, then swept right end on the following play to score. Army reached the Notre Dame five-yard line in the third quarter, but Brosey stopped a fourth down play at tackle. Long punts moved Army back, to its 19, where a desperate pass by Hatch was intercepted by Bagarus on the Army 40, and run back for the second touchdown. Stevenson added his second conversion to make the final score, 14-0. 
Iowa 7; Notre Dame 6 

And the miracle that was Iowa began to happen. Sitko intercepted Kinnick's pass in the end zone, was trapped and hit hard on the three-yard line. His at­tempted lateral to Zontini bounced into a swarm of Iowa players. Twice the Irish line held, but Kinnick lunged into the end zone on his third effort, then dropkicked the conversion which even­tually defeated the Irish. The half ended a minute later. 
The Irish always threatened after that, but scored only once, late in the third quarter, when Piepul plunged four yards to culminate a 49-yard drive. Zon­tini's place kick spun wide. The game ended in a wild flurry of Irish passes— address unknown. 
Notre Dame 7; Northwestern 0 

Eight times during the first three quarters Notre Dame drove down inside the Northwestern 30-yard line, but each time the Purple defense stiffened. Sec­onds before the half ended. Bill De Cor­revont, making his first start against Notre Dame, frustrated one touchdown gallop from his safety position by slow­ing the interference until reinforce­ments came up from the rear to knock down Sheridan on the Wildcat 25. 
In the fourth quarter Northwestei*n hopes rose when DeCorrevont punted to Hargrave, who was trapped along the sideline on the Noti*e Dame nine-yard line. But the Irish quarter shook off two tacklers, then ran the sideline 50 yards to the Wildcat 41. Juzwik ran wide around left end to the nine-yard line. Two plays later Piepul carried the Northwestern line into the end zone. Zontini picked up a low pass from cen­ter, sprinted diagonally to the left, slid into the end zone corner to score the seventh point from scrimmage. 
Southern California 20; Notre Dame 12 . 
Just like that the Trojans marched 67 yards to score the opening touch­down. It was Lansdell who led the maixh and Lansdell who scored the touchdown. Then in the second quarter the Trojans, with Nave up in the quar­terback post, were on the Irish two-yard line, but Kerr's vicious tackle from the side jarred the ball from Nave's grasp. Stevenson recovered in the end zone for a touchback. The timer's watch halted the Irish counter-attack on the Trojan five-yard line as the half ended. 
Piepul scored on the first play of a mad fourth quarter, bumping off left tackle on a reverse. Sheridan threw four perfect passes to set up the touch­dowTi. But the Trojans struck back. Lansdell and Robertson slashed 42 yards off the tackles in a sustained drive that culminated in Lansdell's second touch­down. Jones added the conversion which ultimately swung the game to Troy. 
Sheridan matched Lansdell's touch­down 20 seconds later when he sprinted 60 yards through left tackle on a re­verse. The brisk crosswind caught Kel­leher's attempt to convert. Desperate, the Irish failed to complete a fourth down pass on their 40. The Trojans took over and Schindler cut back off left guard to sprint 35 yards for the final touchdown. Jones added a super­fluous conversion.—Tom Powers 
Twenty-One Seniors End Careers Against U.S.C. 
When the mighty Trojans of Southern California with their outstanding "pow­er-house" play handed the Irish their second defeat of the season t\vo weeks ago, twenty-one Irish regulars witnessed the finale to their college football ca­reers and the final entry of their names into the gi*and history of Notre Dame. 
As the last minutes of game ticked off and the Irish squad fought unsuc­cessfully to stave off the herculean drives of the Califomians, Coach Layden, sent the retiring seniors, one by one, to the showers and shoved in armies of substi­tutions of new men who will carry the brunt of the battle for next year. Un­willingly, these men trotted down the sidelines while a grateful student body loudly applauded. 
Off the Notre Dame gridiron for the last time went one-fourth of Notre Dame's 1939 varsity—^the first and sec­ond string quarterbacks, Steve Sitko and John Kelleher; four great halfbacks. 
Sheridan, Zontini, Stevenson, and Cor­gan; first team fullback, Joe Thesing; four dependable ends. All-American Bud Kerr, Captain John Kelly, Frank Biagi, and Bob Barber; three centers, first, second and third string, respectively, Mclntyre, Finneran, and Mooney; four guards, DeFranco, Riffle, Ames, and Sul­livan; and three tackles, Harvey, Albert, and O'Neill. 
Opinion 
(Continued from page 6) 

exceptionally fast, and it was most dif­ficult to put effective blocks on them. In pure offensive drive, I thought the 1937 and 1938 teams might have had an edge on this one, but defensively and in all-around efficiency and balance, the 1939 team ranks ahead of them." 
Army—Captain William Wood: "The Notre Dame team was far more efficient in all departments of play than any other team we have met on the schedule to date. The squad itself showed evi­dence of fine coaching and smart han­dling as regards physical condition, as the players did not at any time seem to let up or to need substitution due to injuries or exhaustion. The team was well equipped offensively and defensive­ly, and at all times seemed to possess the ability to bounce back under diffi­culty, time and time again. The most characteristic feature of its play to my mind was the fact that they never failed to take advantage of any opening or op­portunity that we presented them with. It is a team of which you may well be proud, and has a hard punch both offen­sively and- defensively." 
Iowa — Eddie Anderson: "I thought Notre Dame had a very excellent foot­ball team. It was a team with a great deal of poise and I believe the best de­fensive team we met all year. It was also a very good offensive team and one that sold itself completely to the crowd." 

Northwestern — Lynn Waldorf: "At Northwestern we felt that your 1939 team was an exceptionally steady team, which played consistent football through­out the season. They were alert and made good use of the scoring opportun­ity in the fourth quarter in our game in the series of plays starting with Har­grave's punt return for 50 yards." 
Southern California — Howard Jones: "Notre Dame is the strongest team we have faced this year. When that club gets the ball, anything can happen. We were always worrying about the time when some of your backs would break away. Sheridan did. I'm certainly glad it didn't happen again. It must have been a great game to watch." 
Fencers Strong In Foil And Saber, Weak in Epee 
The swords have been 'buttoned," the masks are mended, and the Irish fencers are ready to lunge out into their fifth winter season. With practice sessions already begun in the apparatus room of the fieldhouse, Coach Walter M. Lang­ford is preparing the Notre Dame fenc­ing team for the coming competition. Working with the nucleus of seven ex­perienced men and the replacement ma-
Congrafulafions 
TO THE 
1939 


Foofball Team! 
BERT'S 
'OHM. AfiullJUti/^Kotiu/C 
813 S. Michigan So. Bend, Ind. 
Smith Bend's LARGEST Store for Men 

terial from a promising group of last year's freshman squad. Coach Langford hopes to rally a body of sword-wielders that can continue the winning ways of the past. 
The foil seems to be well taken care of, since Captain Bob Sayia, John Gaith­er, Russ Harris, and Hubert Schlafly have proved their worth last year with the light sword. The saber division will have Joe Smalley, John Gavin and Jerry Donovan fighting for those points. How­ever, in the epee, the only experienced man is versatile Smalley. Around this group Coach Langford plans to build the team with various sophomores having an opportunity to prove their worth in competition and gain experience for next year. 
A tentative schedule has been ar­ranged. Detroit will open here Jan. 13. Other matches are planned with North­western, Michigan State, Ohio State, Marquette, Wisconsin, Washington (St. Louis), and Chicago. 
This is Professor Langford's first year as the fencing coach; he replaces former Professor Pedro de Landero, who was instigator of fencing here and under whose coaching the team had two undefeated seasons. All of the rest were winning years. 
More than 50 freshman aspirants have answered the call for practice. Prelim­inary training and instruction has been started with a freshman elimination tournament to be held this winter as the season's climax.—John Quinn 
Keoganites Seek Revenge Here Against Wisconsin 
Wisconsin, with four veterans of last year's quintet again on the scene, will invade the Notre Dame gym next Tues­day night for a basketball battle with Coach George Keogan's Irish. 
DuPui and Smith at the forwards, England at center, and Eondell, a guard, all played on the Badger club which de­feated the Irish last year. 
eUsitDortJj'jf 
"The Traditional Christmas Store" 
GIFTS of GLAMOUR 
for the women in your life 
Perfumes 
To prove you're scent-imental $1.00 up 
Compacts 
She never has too many! $1.00 up 
Costume Jewelry 
Dazzle her with a gift that glitters ...$1.00 up 
Smart Handbags 
Distinctive bags for 
every type.... $2.00 up 
Kislav Gloves 
Glorified Icids for her glove life .$3.00 pair 
Gold Stripe Hosiery 
The hose she prefers— Gold Stripe! $1.00 pair 
Handkerchiefs 
Dainty, feminine . .. . ideal for anyone ..25c up 

From Our Street Floor 




