Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
DlSCe-9VA51-5emP€!e' VICTVRV/S-• VlVe -COVASI- CRAS-lMORIT\/R\yS-
VOL. XLIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 27, 1909. No. 12. 
CHAMPIONS OF THE WEST. 
^y^HE N you come to tell the story Of the season's -varied glory. 

And the laurels that contributed to bristle up our crest, Don't forget the proclamation That our football aggregation 
Won the right to wear the title of the Champions of the West. 
'Twas an all-star bunch of players; 
They were hustlers, also stayers,— 
Played the game from start to finish with enthusiastic zest; They could be, at need, good losers. But the good old Gold and Blue, sirs. 
Was not losing — not exactly; we were Champions of the West. Did our rooter-clans foregather? Did they whoop it up? Well, rather. Why, the welkin needed mending at the close of every test; And—a fact of common knowledge— Football simply owned the college When the Varsity got home at last, the Champions of the West. 
Take it from me straight, nay, rigid. 
That the day will be some frigid 
When our foes dislodge the title we are hugging to our breast; As we have it, so we'll hold it. On our banner we have scrolled it. 
And the Gold and Blue henceforward spells the Champions of the West. Mark ye, then, all husky rivals. W e are it, the fair survivals Of the fittest on the grid-iron; you're at most but second best. For we can, despite your bluffin'. Knock the everlastin' stuffin' Out of any squad that tackles us, the Champions of the West. A. B. 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
A Review of Our Big Games. 
THOMAS CLEARY, '10. 

-o,^>; 
»^4 T maj'- strike the "rooters" as 

w;'^^ ^ interesting that Notre Dame 
iSS[^ ^ played her first big game 
' ^y7p?J against Michigan. This was in 
^ V 1 1887. and the Wolverines carried 
<4^ off the victory, 26-0. In a second 

contest the same 3'ear Notre Dame showed 
better form, and the Ann Arborites, while 
again successful, had to fight harder as the 
10-6 score indicates. After this the pigskin 
sport was carried on in a desultorj'- fashion 
for several years, no game worthy of mention 
occurring before 1894, with the exception of 
a tilt with Hillsdale College in lSy3, when 
we broke even with the visitors (10-10) 
through the punting of Ouinlan at full-back. 
In 1894 football at Notre Dame maj"­fairly be said to have begun its career. Rush Medical College was the first to fall before our attack, the snap and vim of the Notre Dame warriors triumphing over the weight and size of the Doctors, who registered onh' 6 points against 18. We next shut out Wabash 30-0. Captain Keough, Dinkel, Schillo and Zeitler were the men w^ho contributed most to our success in both these games. 
Through inability to understand or check the interference of Chicago w^e lost in 1896 (18-0), though at line-bucking we were supe­rior to the Maroons. In the Purdue game of that 3'ear the same cause was responsible for defeat, inability to break up the inter­ference of our opponents, a weakness which was attributed to the lack of a good "scrub" team w^ith T^'^hich to practise. 
The next year Chicago carried off the victory again (34-5). Notre Dame's inter­ference w^as weak; the men lined up slowly and did not go down fast enough under punts and kick-offs, yet our work was not undeserving of praise in some respects. A 70-yard run and a field goal from the 30­yard line by Kegler, and the magnificent . defense of "Big" John Eggeman were the redeeming features. 
The Varsity opened her football season in '90 by taking the scalp of Illinois (5-0), and the rejoicing at Notre Dame was unbounded. Three times the valiant supporters oif the Gold and Blue were pushed within a few 
yards of their goal, but each time with all 
their fighting blood aroused thej' held their 
opponents like a stone wall. Captain Mullen 
and Farley at the ends, b3' their speed in run-^ 
ning down under punts and their splendid 
tackling, "Big" John Eggeman hj his line 
work, and Fleming who brought us our five 
points bj^ a field goal, established themselves 
as the heroes of the fra3% The entire team 
made a ver3'- creditable showing, and the 
hopes of the rooters ran hign. 
Our ambitions crumbled when we w^ere 
crushed by the Michigan machine, 23-0. 
Farle3' and Eggeman again made a good 
showing, but team-work was lacking. 
Fumbles were frequent, and the line failed 
to hold the Wolverines from blocking'kicks. 
Visions of the State Championship faded 
when we were defeated by Indiana (11-5). 
The Bloomiiigton pla3"ers were heavier and 
superior in interference, but several flukes 
had much to do \vith the final score. 
The season of '99 was in many respects a glorious one for the moleskin men of Notre Dame. True, Chicago ran up 23 punts, while we got only 5, 3'et it was a source of satis­faction to us to have been able to score at all. To Chicago rooters who expected to see the Maroons register a much larger score, the outcome was a great surprise. Eggeman, the big Varsity center, completely out-played Speed, the star of the Maroons, and Farley too was much in the limelight, making sen.'-eral large gains around end and our only touchdown. 
The Michigan game of this 3^ear was a hard-fought contest, ending in victory for the Wolverines (12-0). Michigan started in fast, and within five minutes of play had made their first touchdown. During the rest of the first half Notre Dame held the Ann Arborites, but in the second half they scored again, and onW a magnificent tackle by Farley averted another touch­down. Laterin the season Indiana proved an easy pre3^ (17-0), and we tied Purdue (10-10). 
The season of 1900 -^started off w^rong. In one of the hardest fought battles ever seen in the state we lost to Indiana (6-0), and gloom settled over the camp of loyal rooters. With Captain Farle3'- playing sensa­tionall3' at half-back, and Farragher doing gilt-edged work at tackle, Notre Dame at 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
first seemed sure of victory, but both men 
were injured early in the game and our 
hopes dwindled away. 
At Madison we were completely out­
classed. The line failed to hold on defense, 
and as we seldom had the ball in our posses­
sion we had little opportunity to show what 
we could do on offense—54-0 sums up the 
dismal story. Some of the gloom lifted when 
we held Michigan down to seven points. 
Sammon at full-back and Gl^mn at end were 
the stars, but every man gave a good 
account of himself, forcing the Wolverines 
to fight hard for every foot gained. In the 
first half a fumble gave Michigan the ball" 
on our 9-yard line, and from there the oval 
was carried over for a touchdown. The .two 
additional points were gained by forcing 
Sammon back for a safety. In the second 
half we put Michigan on the defensive, once 
pushing her back within three j^ards of the 
goal, but a mighty defense held us from 
going further. 
The following year (1901) witnessed our 
triumph over both Purdue and Indiana. The 
Boilermakers put up a strong defense, but 
were unable to keep otir speedy backs from 
going through the line, while on offense 
they were very weak. The score (12-6) 
would have been larger had not Notre Dame 
lost the ball at critical moments. 
The decisive defeat of the Down State 
Hoosiers (lS-5) left us unquestioned cham­
pions of the State. The Bloomingtonians 
were completely outplayed, their one touch­
down being the result of a fluke. Sammon 
added to his glory in this game by a 55 yard 
run, while Pick at centre and McGlew at 
quarter deh'ghted the hearts of the rooters. 
The game with Michigan in 1902 was a remarkable one. The splendid showing of' Sammon aroused the admiration and aston­ishment of the Wolverine rooters, and" evoked the comments of the Chicago and Detroit. press. Throughout the battle he was a human catapult, forcing himself through the Michigan line again and again with the pre­cision and force of a battering ram. Michigan scored first in the opening half, but w-as soon put on the defensive. Aided by Doar, Sammon at one time advanced the ball to the Wolverine's five-yard line, but there we were held for downs. The terrific struggle of the first half, however, told on our men, and in the second half they gradually 
weakened before the well-directed charges 
of the Yost machine. Michigan secured three 
touchdowns this half, but she had to fight 
hard for them. When the whistle blew w^e 
were defeated, but by no means disgraced. 
Another hard struggle, in which the brilliant 
playing of Doar and Sammon was again in 
evidence, gave us a victory over Indiana. 
Northwestern University was our only 
formidable opponent in '03. The game took 
place at the American League ball grounds, 
Chicago, and was one of the fiercest battles 
ever waged upon a Western gridiron. In the 
first half Lonergan, the Notre Dfime left-half, 
ran forty-five yards for a touchdown, but 
the ball w^as brought back because of hold­
ing in the line. The Evanston team kept us 
on the defensive during the first half. Several 
times a touchdown by Northwestern seemed 
inevitable. We were first pushed back to 
the nine-yard line, and we held them back, 
but through a blocked kick were shoved back 
to the two-yard line. A desperate defense 
followed; a touchdown was averted with 
the ball only six inches from the goal. In 
attempting to punt a second time Sammon 
sent the ball out of bounds on the five-yard 
line. A third time our goal was in immediate 
danger, but a third time the Purple's 
advance w^as checked. The ball was punted 
out of danger, and a mighty cheer went up from the throats of the anxious rooters for the Gold and Blue. Score, 0-0. 
Two big games w-ere scheduled in '04 and we lost both. Wisconsin defeated us 58-0, Purdue 36-0. While Notre Dame fought bravelj"^ in both games she fought against the inevitable. She was simply out-classed. 
The increased strength of the team of '05 was shown by our holding the Badgers to 23 points. Through a mere accident we lost a fine chance to score. After eluding the interference of the entire Wisconsin team, and running a distance of 60 yards, Silver slipped and fell. Before he could arise he was tackled and a splendid opportunit3' was lost. 
Through the coaching of Barry Notre Dame was enabled to beat Purdue in '06 for the first time in some years. The only score of the game was made by Notre Dame on a safety. But the score does not tell the game. Touchdowns were made by Sheehan, Beacom and Hurtzell, but they were called 
i8o NOTRE DAME 
back because of holding in the line, tripping, etc. Callicrate, after carrying the oval over the line hy a 60-yard run, was also called back on a foul. The Indiana game was hotly contested, but the Bloomingtonians had a superior team, and we w^ere obliged to acknowledge defeat (12—0). 
In '07 we measured closer to the strength of Indiana, fighting her to a standstill (0-0). "Red" Miller was the star of the game. In blocking punts, breaking up forward passes, spoiling end runs and backing up the line he w^as alway^s on hand. In the line Lynch, Paine and Alertes did the fancy work, while Ryan and Callicrate filled their back-field positions in the most approved fashion. Purdue proved an easy conquest (17—0), but the score should have been larger. Ryan's seventy-yard run for a touchdown was not allowed because the linesmen had not moved the lines. 
Last year witnessed a triumph hitherto unknown to Notre Dame. We succeeded in crossing Michigan goal-line and prevented them from crossing ours. True, Michigan w^on, but it was a case of luck, w^hich even Yost admitted. Three field goals by Allerdice netted the twelve points. To one man's kicking ability the Wolverines' victory was due, for, outside of punting, Notre Dame was superior to Michigan in every respect. Our only touchdown was made by Vaughan after a sensational run of fifty yards. Ham­ilton kicked goal. Indiana and Purdue were defeated in turn, and so we ended the season State Champions and one of the best teams of the West. 
Varsity Verse. 
YOST'S "PRACTICE GAME." 
Oh, sportsmen, have you heard the dope? It surely is a jest, For "Hurry Up" says Michigan Is Champion of the West. He says he conquered ever)' team Excepting Notre Dame, And then he only took her on To get a "practice game." Ha! Ha! "I didn't care a bit," says, Yost, "If N. D. lost or won." Of course he don't recall his words ' When that hard-fought game was done; 


SCHOLASftC 
"I'm tired and all discouraged, and I'm s'ck of it." His fame Had got a little jo'ting from That "work-out," "pract'ce game." Ua! Ha! 
Of course he don't ncall his words, "It makes me dog-goned mad To think we might have won from them,"' .\nd others we might add, "A game like that's the worst to lose. It sets one's heart aflame. And leavis a worm to gnaw and gnaw." Expensive "p'actice game." Ha! Ha! 
So, men of sport, what think 3'ou now ? Such action's small at best, 
N. D. alone can rightly hold The prestige of the West. She struggled hard, her slate is clean, The just respect her claim. And Mr. Yost should not forget 
That dear-bought "practice game." Ha! Ha! 
G. J. F. 
TH E  PARABLE  OF "DRAWING  THE  LINE."  
Said David to Goliath, "I licked you fair and square. Goliath blandly answered, "I'm licked but 'tisn't fair, I w^asn't in condition  
Or else you'd not have won. You don't deserA'e the credit, I only fought for fun."  
The Egypt Record-Herald Where Axelson wrote dope. Said, "'Mongst the All-Jew VYoung David needn't hope To get a place, though able All others to outshine, There are so many claimants ' He've got to draw the line.'"  ictors  
F.  
STILL  CHAMPIONS.  
Rah! Rah!  The  Team!  
Still Champions, Although Marquette, You bet, Gave our muscle  
A tussle.  
Gee!  
That 1000% looks goodRah! Rah! The Team.  to  me.   G.  



NOTRE DAME 
The Season of J909. 
LEO J. CLEARY, '10. 

The Marquette game closed the greatest season in the history of the gridiron sport at Notre Dame. The circumstances which attended every game were such as to fix the sport more firmly in the category of college contests. We were fortunate in having no serious accidents. Crowds came in increasing numbers to witness the exhibitions on Cartier Field, and everywhere a game was witnessed there was found in the hearts of the spectators a respect and an admiration for the men who battled so nobly, so cleanh', so loyally for the honor of their Alma Mater. 
The football history of 1909 has become athletic history. The moleskin warriors who graced the gridiron stage for their brief day have passed in review; they have justlj' won their right to immortalit3', and while there lives a student of this ^ear at Notre Dame their praises will be sung. Beginning with the trouncing administered Olivet, and on through the grand triumphal march against Michigan and Pittsburg and the victories over Wabash and Marquette, the team played in a manner which elicited applause at every turn. 
Every year Notre Dame has had reason to be proud of men who won the football monogram. Every year some few have deserved more than a passing notice; but never before have we had reason to boast of such an aggregation of stars as composed the '09 Varsity. This year every position on the team was filled by a plajer who possessed all the qualifications necessary to entitle him to a ranking among the foremost contenders for a similar position The splen­did teamwork and steady, consistent playing of every^ member was conspicuous through­out the season. All had experience, all knew the rules; and this, coupled with the Notre Dame fighting spirit, made them invincible. 
During the season we encountered every kind of play known. Heze Clark had the Rose Poly squad drilled in the science of the forward pass, but the Notre Dame ends proved a barrier to its successful use. The 
M. A. C. team had a splendid line-up, but the speed and weight of the Gold and Blue 
SCHOLASTIC i8] 
warriors proved a stone-wall defense against line plays. At Pittsburg w^ere displaj-ed the results of Eastern coaching. The final score was only 6 to 0, but this is no record of the comparative strength of the teams, for imdue penalties were imposed, and JSTotrc Dame played with the disadvantage, of a partial referee. In the banner game of the season at Ann Arbor, Notre Dame clearly demonstrated her superiority in the West. For 3'ears the Yost machine had held sway. Michigan had given Syracuse a drubbing one week bef< re which showed her wonder­ful strength; and competent critics, allow­ing Notre Dame due credit for her victories, prophesied a close score in Michigan's favor. Michigan men were in the best of condition, their linemen \vere heavy and their repor­tory of plan's well rehearsed. Everj'^ artifice was employed by Yost's pupils; but the plays V ere smothered as fast as they Were started. Michigan v as out-generaled, out­fought and out-played at ever}'stage of the game, and their show of gameness dwindled when they faced a better line-up. The victory over Michiiran j^laces Notre Dame far in the lead for Westirn honors and with a claim to Eastern superioritj' as well. 
Chicago tied CornJl. Harvard defeated Cornell, lS-0. Yale defeated Harvard, S-0, and conquered S3'racu«e, 14-0. Michigan piled up a score of 43 ayainst S\-racuse. This gives Michigan a higher ranking than any Eastern college. Chicago hurabletl Illinois and Purdue, and then let Minnesota run up a 29-6 score. Minnesota then took the conference honors bj-- winning from Wisconsin, onh' to give honors to Michigan by a 15-6 count. By h.-df a dozen scheduled routes Notre Dame may be proved far iti advance of all other claimants for football prestige. The games played during the season between the va'rious colleges furnish a splendid opportunity to estimate the strength of all the elevens of the country. 
Notre Dame has been undergoing an evolution in football. She has been steadily advancing, until now she seems to "rest at the pinnacle of athletic fame, and from the credit given this season's team alone Notre Dame seems to have been recognized and appreciated by the public. Such well-earned success surelj"- presages a bright future for football at Notre Dame, 


1.S2 XOTRE DAME 
A Toast. 
V 
'UV. iiattit.-- ;irc all i!\cr niu! the i^rn^s 
Will i^row aLiaiii, 
Wln'--^ late in sun and rain Tliev Irt the lino or licavcil the torward ])ass. < )r k-11 td.iiciller in a <tru.L;,!.;lin_Lr nias>. 
And cvcrvw IKTC the colors hriizht would uleani— The .Ljold of >-unset and the blue ol slcy. .•\ cheer to_:^ether. felK'.ws. stronjr and hii;h— 
The Team I 
The ineiiioi'v of iheni wdi not ji is^ away In afier years 
The anxious wailing and the fe.us Before; and then the joy when won ilie (ia\. Will %et lie told when we are bent ai d ur.-iy. 
Let their l)iiL;l]t cdors on th'> lirei'zes stream— The lilue <>f heaven, the ijo'd ol settini; su'i. One lustv cheer together, hoys, just one — The Team! 
(rod Sjieed vou, warriors.' To us _\ ou are the liest In all the world 
In other years when you are hurled .X.irai'ist the line of life with head and breast. Hit hard with do.uired patience till you wrest 
\ victorv, and vour co'ors bright are seen— The i^old of stars that iilimnier in the b'ue. This last one, all tou^ether. fellows, warm and true— 
The Team 1 C. 
The Team. 
Now that the iootball season of 1901) is about to ijo down as historv and the men who have represented the \'arsit\' are about to disband, we take this opjjortunity of extending" most hearty congratulations to every member of the squad. The season has indeed been a most glorious one, and reflects credit on each and every player who in any way helped to make us Champions of the We.st. The victories of the squad have immortalized it as the greatest team ever turned out by Xotre Dame. 
The name of Coach Longman has been sounded by every sporting sheet in the c>>untr\-, and everywhere are echoed praises for Captain Edwards and liis men. Just who is responsible ior the showing of our team this season no one can sav, and to place the glory achieved upon an\'one in part'cular would be hardlv fair to the other. All workinij tosrether under the direction of that great coach of ours brought the splendid results. We introduce each pla3'er 


SCHOLASTIC 
to our readers before he retires from the limelight of our chani]:)ionshi]) year. 
C.'VI'T.VI.N HoWWKIt Kl)\V.\KI)S. 
"Hd" was utility man last year, and at 
the end of the season he was chosen by 
his team-mates to captain the 1909 Eleven. 
His work on the line this year has been 
consis'ent at all times, and .^is a leader too 
much praise can not be .uiven him. fie ]jut 
forth every effort to keep his men together, 

and was j^erhajjs the most conscientious trainer on the sipiad. .Vltliough sufTering from injuries which he received early in the season he was in the line-ui) for every game. He is a strong defensive player, and can carrN- the ball and receive forward passes in good st3'le. This is his third 3-ear and 
he will return. 
I-IARKV AIlLLIiR. 

After all the papers in the West have lauded the work of Our Red to the skies 
GSTCD^rS GliAMPlOM^ 

Collins, !•:. DimiiiicU, T Dolaii, C, , T I,>nch, C. Kt-liy, ('.. I'liilim ok, (',. ?*IaUlie\\.s, I'",. i)",L;niaii, Coarh .Miller, II. H Ilaiiiilton, n. H. Capl. Ivlwards, f",. K\aii, II. M. \'au,i;lian, I". I'.. Sclniiitt, I". H. IMaloiicy, K. 
uMMjaiia!Ma?igBSjaa»iwg*iMwe!sfe'jT^ 
184 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
we can hardly add to his fame. He is a great player of course. The greatest half­back in the West without a doubt, and so the great Walter Camp pronounced him. Even the celebrated Yost, while he watched his own team go down to defeat, said: "It was certainly a treat and took some of the sting of defeat away to watch that Red­headed Irishman shake 'em oif." His brilliant work in the back-field earned him a place on the All-Indiana eleven, for which he was 
unanimously chosen. RALPH DoiivncK. Ralph played on the team last year. He was not eligible for all the games. But this 3 ear he vi^as in the harness from the start, and his plajnng has been such that critics who have seen him declare he is the fastest tackle in the West. He is especially strong on defense, and on his tackle-around plays he carried the ball many yards for his team. "Dim," says, yes, he will be "on the job" again next year. 
PETE V.\UGHAX. 

Pete is another second-3'ear man. Good at leading interference, a terrific line plunger, and without a peer in handling the forward pass, he was perhaps the surest ground-gainer on the team and could always be relied upon in a pinch. Walter Eckersall pronounces him the All-Western full-back. Pete will return again next year. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK. 

Phil is another second-3'^ear man. He was not in the line until late last j'^ear. But, as predicted at the end of last season, he w^as a valuable asset to the line this year. He is big and strong, fast enough to play any position on the line or at end where he was seen early in the season. This year he alter­nated with Edwards at guard and tackle, and, like Edwards, he carries the ball well. His best performances this year were at Pittsburg and against Miami.. In the latter game he scored two touchdowns after 40­yard runs. Phil will be with us again next year. His home is in. Oregon. 
LEE MATTHEWS. 

"Matt " is another contribution of the far West, and his work on the squad has been highly commended by all the critics; at Pittsburg he was easily the star performer. Time after time he baffled the opposing ends and half-backs by his brilliant handling of the forward pass. But it is not in this department alone that he shines. His abilitj'^ as a tackier or at piling up interference leaves him without a peer in the West as a defensive end. He is not an Indian except in the figurative sense. He will return next 
year. He hails from Washington. 
JAJIES MALONEY. 

Jimmie came out too late in the season to secure a place on the squad, and was content to alternate at the end positions with Matthews and Collins. He is a fast, snappy plaj'^er, a sure tackier, and is not behind either of the regulars in receiving the 
forward  pass.  He is the  lightest  man  on  
the  team,  weighing only  135 pounds.  He  
will  return  next  year.  
WILL  RYAN.  

^\\\y has been in every game this year, and his plajnng has been characterized by remarkable speed and headvvork. He scored the second touchdown for his team against Michigan after a sensational forty-yard run. Billj'^ can punt some and play quarter-back too, and catches spies at signal practice. 
He will be with us next year. 
SAM DOLAN. 

Sam has been the bulwark of the team during the past three 3'ears, and his work this year has even surpassed the old standard. His place is at tackle. But when Coach Longman was looking about for a man to back up the line, he wanted a man who could tackle hard, and such a man who knew the game thoroughly, and Rosie was-the man for the job. It was Rosie who stood behind our line and stopped the terrific plunges of the heavier Pittsburg backs. It was Rosie who shifted from side to side at Michig*in, encouraging his team­mates and plunging fearlessly into the diffi­cult formations of Yost's men, and it was Rosie again who was picked unanimously for the All-State team. He will be graduated in June, and his loss will be keenh'^ felt. 
JOSEPH COLLINS. 

Collins is a capable, heady player, and held out well air through the season. His work at end was consistent all through, and he was the surest man on the team in receiving forward passes. In this way he was a steady ground-gainer and a valuable addition to the team. Joe is a junior Law man and will return. 


NOTRE DAME 
EDWARD LYNCH. 

"Copper" received and merited universal recognition as All-State center, and is one of the surest passers in the West. He is not a star, but is- probably the most con­sistent pla3-er on the team. He is strong in defensive work and can always be depended on. Much of the success of some very clever punting this year was due to his skill and judgment. "Copper" will graduate this year. 
DONALD HAMILTON. 

Hamilton's work at quarterback was one of the wonders of a wonderful team. His speed and sureness in directing plays in the Michigan- game won favorable comment from Walter Camp. He is sure in handling the ball and accurate in forward passes. He is a spectacular player and runs well in the open field. He is clever in returning punts. He developed into a good place kicker before the end of the season. His field goal from the 45-yard line in the Wabash game was one of the prettiest kicks of the year. This is his second year on the team. 
WrLLIA]M SCHMITT. 

Schmitt developed into a fast, strong pla3'er—the best utilitj'- man on the squad. He is good on defense and does fine work in hitting the line. His work at full-back against Miami was a feature of the game. He has played in the same position against Wabash, and contributed materially' to pile up the score. "Bill" finishes this 3-ear. 
PETER DWYER. 

Pete has been the hard-luck man on the team. Earh- in the year he received injuries which have remained with him all through the season; keeping him oiit of most of the games, and forcing him to quit the games in w hich he started. He is one of the best defensive placers on the squad, and, like Matthews, is a vicious tackier. To the fact that he plays so hard his injuries are attributed. In the few games in which he 
play^ed hecritics in tHe will be  \\ on favor with manyheir choice for all-star back next vear.   of elev  the ens.  
ALBERT  KELLEY.  

"Red " was not out for the early practices, but when the call for men for the scrubs was sounded a few weeks before the Michigan game, he was one of the first to report. In the first few scrimmages he gave great promise as a back-field man, and Coach 

SCHOLASTIC 
>85 

Longman was not slow to recognize his ability. He proved a timely substitute when Ryan was forced through injuries to qiiit his position. He plaj-ed in p^rt of the Miami game, and earned his letter in the game against Wabash, fie will return next year and should be a strong bidder for a regular 
position in the back-field. '^"" 
JOHN DUFFY. 

John was a victim of circumstances. During his three years on the team he has developed an aptitude at any position. With the possible exception of the quarter-backs, he has filled the bill as substitute in every other position. He has plenty of speed for the back-field and is not too light to hold 
his ow^n in the line.  He will be graduated  
in June.  
LUKE  KELLY.  

Luke is another man who is able to take any position and pla^'- it well. He is a hard, sure tackier and a strong lineman. His w^ork at guard in the Wabash game was a feature. He is not afraid,to leave his feet, and when he does he brings something home 
with him. Luke will return. 
MANAGER CURTIS. 

Manager and Assistant Coach Curtis is a man whose ability and good judgment are so well known that they have become almost proverbial. Some very unjust, and, as later appeared, unwise, criticism of his 
{Conclttded iirom page 1S6.) 
i86 NOTRE DAME 
Notre Dame Scholastic 
PuOashcd J very Saturday during Term Time at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
. Address: THd EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
Notre Dame, IndianA 
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 27, 1909. 
Board of Editors. 
PETER E. HEBERT, '1 0 GEORGE J. FI.XXIGAX, '1 0 
DEXIS A. MOURISOX, '10 LEO J. CLEARY, ' 1 0 
MICHAEL A. M.\THIS,'10 LEO C. MCELROY, '10 
THO.M.\S A. LAHEY. '11 JOHX C. TULLY, '11 
FRANCIS WENXIXGER, '11 ARTHUR J. HUGHES, '11 
CH.A.RLES MILTXER, '11 THOMAS F. CLEARY, '11 
JOHX F. O'HARA , '12 FREDERICK CARROLL, '12 
—The team that won for Notre Dame the Western Championship in football has dis­banded. The valiant bodj-- of men who donned the moleskins for Hail the Gold and Blue this j-ear And and who through thick and Farewell, thin, through criticism and through victoiy, held together and fought together and helped one another to gain the long-desired laurels, has parted company on the gridiron and will not be seen again as a great Notre Dame machine. It is with a sigh of regret that one witnesses its dispersion at the close of Notre Dame's most successful football season. Taking it all in all, and, with due consideration for the old heroes and credit to the teams that in previous 3ears have bravelj-^ battled and stubborn^ upheld Notre Dame's honor on the gridiron, it must be conceded, and it is admitted gladly and without reserve, that this year's Varsity is the greatest team ever developed at the Universit^^ In the intoxi­cation of its great victories and in the excitement of congratulation, there is one point which is apt to be overlooked, but which appeals to the student of men cis uppermost: this year's team is an aggrega­tion of individuals, and if it. worked well 



SCHOLASTIC 

as a machine—end few machines harmonize more perfectly^—it w-as because each man put the best of his individuality'^ into his work, and considered his team-mates as well as himself We who pride ourselves on a personal acquaintance with Notre Dame's ]Dlayers were happy to recognize on the field the characteristics for which we esteem them and the qualities which make us love them. The Gold and Blue team of 1909 has disbanded and its wonderful record has become histor3% but the memor3^ of the nun who composed the team will ever be cherished in the hearts of the lox-al sons of Notre Dame. To Coach Longiiian who.*-e name has become famous in Western football, to Manager Curtis whose wi.^e arrangement of the schedule is known and appreciated, to the whole team collectively and individually', we extend the heartiest congratulations and good Avishcs. 
—Mr. Yost said of the Michiijan-Notre Dame game in the Record Herald of last Monda3'^: " You must recognize the fact that 
we went into the game caring  
Mr. Yost  little whether we won or lost.  '  
"Didn't Care."  Shortly  after  that  Michigan- 
Notre  Dame  srame  Mr. Yo>t  
said: "What  makes  me  so  dog-gone(F mad  

is that we might have won. Those are the w^orst kind of games to lose. They leave a worm in the heart to gnaw and gnaw. 
0 I don't know, I'm sick and tired of the whole business; it certainly is discouragin.<r. 1 take off my hat to the Irishmen. They are regular Indians. I was afraid of them because the\' have all the qu.tlites of great football players." And 3et .Mr. Yost didn't care. Mr. Yost is a good coach, a good man with a nice sense of the comical. Some evening during the long winter months, when the memories ot football are no more, he will enjo3' in his own quiet w^ay the humor, b3' comparison, of these two statements. And every lover of good fellowship and good sport ^ ill enjo3' the joke with him. Apart from victory- or defeat, which is in realit3' a minor consideration, one regrets to find a coach of such well-known abilit3' as Mr, Yost descend to these schoolboy tactics which can serve no good purpose except to awaken the bumorons sense. 
Tliis cartoon is tbe concept of the celebrated cartoonist Packard for Notre Dame. 
ss!9S'RSRn:s;sss;sKcsiace9ffl)Esi«Mi!SiHBBB^^ ••OMUmiMiMlill—lUM s^c 
i88 NOTRE DAME 
(Continued on page ISS.) 

schedule of games was heard at the loegin­ning of the season, particularlj'^ with refer­ence to .the Pittsburg game. The w^isdom displayed in picking the games is now^ so patent that criticism is silenced and congrat­ulations are in order. His work with the second team was of the usual high order that is expected and alwaj's received from 
Curtis,  and  a  full  share  in  the  glorj'  of  
obtaining  the  Western  Champi onship  is  
due  Mr. Curtis.  

COACH FRANK LONGMAN. 

With the great success of the team, and its glorious string of victories going down in the history of Notre Dame, one name stands out which will be linked with the 


SCHOLASTIC 
memory of his great team as long as the University stands. It is that of Frank Longman. However great have been the achievements of the team, its greatness must reflect in full upon the coach. True, he began the season with an unusual stock of material—an aggregation of already strong plaj'^ers. But other coaches have had great players and great advantages, and have failed to turn out great teams. 
Anyone who is versed in the science of football or w^ho has a know^ledge of the history of the game will not deny that a great team never existed without a coach, and that a team composed of the greatest individual stars of the gridiron, if not properly coached, would be helpless before an eleven made up of even mediocie players properly coached and trained to play to­gether. It is the facult3'^ of making a team or a machine rather than making individual plaj'crs that measures the efiicienc3'^ of a coach, and in this department Longman excels. Notre Dame had. eleven great pla3-ers, and out of the eleven Longman made a great team, — the team beat Michigan. 
* * 

Too much credit can not be given to the men who received the hard knocks and sacri­ficed their own interests to train the Varsity men in offensive and defensive work. The second team of this 3'ear was small nuiner­ically, but its spirit more than made up for this. The team under other conditions would have shone brilliantly,- but. was entirely eclipsed by the phenomenal strength of the first team. Brennan is a good, sure passer, and is almost sure of a berth next 3'^ear. Ennis and Bergman, though light, are fast, head3'^ pla3'ers and fearless tacklers. They should form good back-field and end material for next 3'^ear's Varsity. Moriart3', Attley and Freeze were late in reporting, but showed up well in back-field and line. Murphy was a good lineman, but w^as put out of the game early in the season by injuries. McGrath, a fast, snappy player, was out of the game part of the season with injuries. Dumphy and Williams are steady, consistent men, and fit in well all around. Figel and Roth are hard workers and deserve a great deal of credit for honest effort and insistence, J. F. O'H. 
MOTRE DAME SCROLASflC 
There is no more talk about a post­season game with Minnesota. 
Query:  What  is  a  conference?  
*  
»  *  
In  the  flush. of  victory  and  the  over­ 

indulgence in championships, let it.not be forgotten that Corby also won. 
* * * 
There seems to be some truth to the state­ment that there is a Big Two in the West that can justlj^ dictate football to the Big Eight. 
* * 
Were Notre Dame to play Yale, what would be the outcom.e ? Of all the foolish questions! 
* * * 
One of the strongest and most sportman­like teams in the West is that of the Michigan Agricultural College, a fact which papers seem to have somewhat overlooked. 
* * * 
If you are one of a Big Two you are half: if you're one of the Big Eight you are only one-eighth. 
* 
NOTRE DAME, 0; MARQUETTE, 0.—And so we are still the undefeated Champions of the West. 

^^*' 
The Immortals. 
EDIVARDS 
MILL E R COLLIN S MAT T HEWS KELLY DWYE R MALONEY S C HMITT VAUG H AN RY A N DIM MICK P HILLBROOK HAM I LTON 
b o LAN 
LYNCH 
SCRUB S 
The Gambel Co. Concert. 

One of the most acceptable concert pro­grams heard in Washington Hall this year w^as that rendered by the trio of artists com­posing the Gambel Concert Company on last Saturday. Mr. Ernest Gambel, singularly gifted with a rare quality of voice, did justice to his past reputation in every number he ofifered. One can hardly choose between his rendition of difficult numbers or the exquisite expression he puts into the old English bal­lads. Miss Page, as a violinist, is far beyond the usual concert soloist performing on that instrument. There is a voice and an emotion in every throb the strings give forth beneath her magic touch. Miss Page is truly a gifted artist. Mr. Otto Stuermer performed very creditably on the piano, and his selections won well-merited applause. 
Local Items, 

—The annual cross-country run, held dar­iiig the Wabash game last Saturday, was won by Scholl, in 31:50, with Jennings second and Johnston third. The wind and cold made the running extremely difficalt. 
—The Deane Steam Pump Co., Holyoke, Mass., desires to be placed in communication with a graduate of the mechanical engineering course at Notre Dame, who has had several years of practical experience and would be willing to consider an advantageous offer. 
—Features of next week's SCHOLASTIC will be the account of the 0-0 game with Marquette, a report of the.Corby-Brownson game, in w'hich the former won the Interhall Championship, the selection of an All-Inter­hall team, and an account of the reception given the Western Champions on their 
return from Milwaukee. —A committee of class presidents has undertaken to pay a w^orthy tribute to the team that won the Western Championship. The intention is that a banquet be given the victors by the entire body of collegiate students. The object is a most laudable one and the initiators of the movement shonld have the loyal support and co-operation of every student who is proud of the team's record. —The following from the editorial page 



190 NOTRE DAME 
of the Catholic Transcript of Hartford, 
Connecticut is pleasant reading. 
"Notre Dame Universit3'^ takes the lead 
among Catholic schools of learning in 
providing a course in aviation. Several 
engines have been built and types of flying 
machines used by^ successful aviators studied. 
The biplane is the favorite out at Notre 
Dame. Aerial navigation is the coming 
thing, and it is gratifying to note that at 
least one Catholic college is taking time by 
the forelock, and preparing to meet the 
needs of the age as thev arise." 
Athletic Notes. 
NOTRE DAME, 3S ; WABASH, 0. 

Another football adorns the shelf in the 
trophy room, and on its sides in glowing-
letters is written Wabash, 0; Notre Dame, 38. 
It means that on November 20th, 1909, our 
old friends from the Down state college came, 
saw^, and v^'^ere conquered on Cartier Field, 
and the decorated oval is preserved to 
commemorate one more victory for the '09 
Eleven. 
The game last Saturday, while it was not the best game seen on Cartier Field, was not without its fine points. In the history of our contests with Wabash it is noticeable that regardless of the showing made by that team against other teams it has always been a strong opponent for Notre Dame, and it was because of this and the crippled condition of our own team that we looked to their coming this year with a tinge of anxiety. 
Vaughan and Ryan were both out of the line-up with injuries received in the Miami game, and Dimmick, who has been out since the Michigan game with a bruised shoulder, 
w-as also on the side-lines. 
Philbrook kicked off to Wabash in the first half, and for the first few minutes of play neither side seemed to have an advan­tage; finally, it was Notre Dame's ball on their own forty-yard line. Two downs brought it past the center of the field and first dow^n. The next tw^o downs netted six yards, when Hamilton executed a perfect field-goal from the forty-five yard line. 
, It was the turning-point in the game, and though Wabash maintained a stiff defense throughout, it was evident that their hope 

SCHOLASTIC 
of victory was gone, and all that remained 
was a possibility of keeping down the score. 
However, the three points served as a goad 
to the Notre Dame chargers, and spurred 
on by constant encouragement the3r tore 
through the Wabash line almost at will, ran 
their ends, and worked the forward pass to 
great advantage. The score at the end of 
the half was Notre Dame, 27; Wabash, 0. 
The second half started out much like the 
first, and again it looked as if the scoring 
was over. The Little Giants' line, which in 
the first half seemed helpless against the 
onslaught of their heavier opponents, braced 
w^onderfully, and for a time Notre Dame 
was unable to gain consistently. Only for 
a time, however, and before ten minutes of 
play had elapsed, Miller, Kelley and Schmitt 
were tearing down the field on long end 
runs and line bucks: Wabash was completely 
swamped. Collins and Maloney at the ends 
played havoc with their formations, and all 
attempts to gain through the line were 
fruitless. In the middle of the half. Miller 
was replaced by Moriarty, and Collins gave 
place to Matthews. 
Hamilton surprised the crowd by his successful goals from the field, some of which were made at difficult angles. Hopkins, the Wabash left tackle, was injured early in the game and w^as obliged to quit the field. 
The Line-Up and Summarj'. Notre Dame Wabash Malonej' L. E. Cochran, Elliot Philbrook L. T. Bare Kelley L. G. McHeyl Lynch C. . L. Lambert Edwards R. G. Elberts Dolan R. T." Cochran, Ryan, Hopkins Collins R. E. Cravens Hamilton Q. H. Lambert, Hawkins Miller, Moriarty L. H. Panhallegan, Yount Red Kelley R. H. Cunningham Schmitt ' F. B. • Markle 
Touchdowns—Edwards, Schmitt, Philbrook, Miller (2), Red Kelley. Goals from touchdown—Hamilton (5). Goal from field —Hamilton. Umpire—Easterline, Purdue. Referee—Haddon, Michigan. Head linesman—Gohier, Fra^inlin. Time of halves—^Thirty minutes. 
Championship Gossip. 

BY HEK (Chicago Tribune).—Nothing, it seems, now remains to make the disparagement of Notre Dame's victory over Michigan convincing but the declaration that Michigan never did play Notre Dame. 
* • 

SPORT THOUGHTS (Indianapolis Neics). — Those New York critics, in overlooking Notre Dame, came about as near hitting the mark as they usually do when their opinions have to do with the west. 
However, it might be expected that those eastern­ers would find it hard, extremely hard, to give full credit to a western team that defeated a western team that defeated one of the east's sti-ongest. 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Boston American. November 17.—Here's a little past performance dope which may help some of you football fans figure out how to invest your money on the Yale-Harvard game. 
Dartmouth and Princeton played a 6to 6 tie. Har­vard beat Dartmouth 12 to 3. Yale beat Princeton 17 to 0. What chance has Harvard with Yale? 
Notre Dame. Indiana, beat Michigan 11 to 3. Michigan beat Syracuse 47 to 0. Syracuse held Yale down to a 17 to 0 score. What chance would Yale have against Notre Dame? Don't all answer at once. 
* 
* » 

South Bend Xews. November 23.—At the close of what is pronounced the best football season since the lules were changed in the winter of 1905-6 Notre Dame is recognized by the authorities as the cham­pion of the west. Eckersall, the Chicago football expeit and critic, while admitting that Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion because of the defeat of Michigan, qualifies the statement by saying that "Coach Yost's players were not. at their best when they met Notre Dame and if the two teams were to meet next Saturday Michigan in all prob­ability would be the winner." 
This is an exceedingly illogical conclusion and, though perhaps not intended, is unjust to Notre Dame. At the time these two teams met and Notre Dame demonstrated its superiority in all branches of the game, straight football, forward passing, trick playing, attack and defense, both had had the same opportunities for development and there is no rea­son to presume hat subsequent improvement was not common to botl. In the opinion of those who have watched Notre Oame and are competent to .ludge the team has made material impiovement since it rubbed Michigan's nose in the dust of its own grid­iion and is as capable of repeating the feat today as it was on that happy occasion. 
The "dope" is that Notre Dame has not been de­feated this year. If the games played had included the members of the conference and the results had been the same Notre Dame would have been cham­pion by performance, but not being a member of the conference must accept a "dope" championship, which follows the defeat of Michigan. While not as satis­factory to the team the honor is as great as though every team in the conference had been defeated seria­tim. Notre Dame is recognized as being in a class by itself among the teams of the state and to rank with the best large university teams east or west. In track athletics and baseball Notre Dame has long occupied a prominent position and now its claim to distinction in football is recognized by all. 
* * * 

D.vMKi, .T. F. SuLLiVAx {GMcago Inter Ocean). November 22).—Decisive proof of the superiority of the west over the east and the humiliation of the "Big Eight"—The Western Conference—were the re­sults of the games of Saturday, which practically ended the football season througaout the country. 
The games also settled the championship of the cast—^Yale taking the honors bj' its victory over Harvard. Thej- failed, however, to give he final word on the championship of the West, although they de­termined that none of the Western Conference elev­ens can claim better than fourth place in the cham­pionship race. 
The game that is to be played at Milwaukee Thanksgiving Day between. Marquette and Notre Dame is what leaves the Western Championship still in the air, with Notre Dame, Michigan and Marquette all possible claimants for first place in the West. A victory for Notre Dame over Marquette, and particu­larly a decisive one will settle the possession of the championship title beyond a question. 
Such a victory' will mean that Notre Dame has the strongest team in the West, and probably in the entile country. It has defeated Michigan by a deci­sive score and the Wolverines conquered Minnesota, which is in a class by itself in the Western Confer­ence, by an equally decisive one. That .disposes of all the Western Conference teams as far as Notre Dame is concerned, but that is not all. Michigan also conquered Pennsylvania, which has not been de­feated by a single Eastern team, and Notre Dame. therefore, ranks far above Pennsylvania. 
Moreover, the Wolverines defeated Syracuse by a far bigger score than Yale was able to run up against the New Yorkers, and Notre Dame has, therefore, a right to claim it has a better team than Yale. Of course, the East, according to its custom, will calm­ly claim the championship of the entire country for Yale, but there is no reason why the West shouldn't do as much for Notre Dame. .It is by no means uncertain that either Notre Dame or Michigan could defeat Yale today, especially as the Blue showed it could not gain through Harvard. 
But there is a chance that Marquette may defeat Notre Dame Thursday and this would complicate matters in the West somewhat. Michigan defeated Marquette and if the Milwaukee Catholics defeat the South Bend ones, then INIichigan and Notre Dame would have a double tie. Michigan would probably be given a shade the best of it if such a condition should be brought about. 
A Marquette victory is by no means improbable, but the chances are in favor of Notre Dame. If the Hoosiers win. the ranking of the principal Western teams for the season of 1909 will then be as follows: 
1 Notre Dame 7 Illinois 
2 Michigan S Indiana 
3 IMarquette 9 Iowa 
4 Minnesota 10 Northwestern 
5 Chicago 11 Wabash 
6 Wisconsin 12 Purdue 

Of these teams, the first four are in a class by themselves. Chicago, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana are another, and the remaining teams are in a third. 
» * * 

W-vr/rEK H. ECKKKS-VLI. (Chicago Tribune) Nov. 22. —In the West Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion, because the Catholics defeated iMichigan earlier in the season and the Wolverines in turn trounced Minnesota, the champion of the Western Conference colleges. 
Notre Dame easily defeated Wabash in a manner so decisive that it goes a long way in demonstrating the strength of the Catholics this year. 

» * * 

Cincinnati Post. November 22.^The football sea­son of 1909 was practically brought to a close Satur­day when Yale and Harvard fought the deciding game in the East, and IMichigan and Minnesota elev­ens battled in the West. 
Notre Dame has a clean claim to the title on her season's performance. Notre Dame won from Michi­gan. Michigan defeated Minnesota . and Minnesota defeated Chicago! The other Western teams are never considered serious factors in the race. 
* * * 

Cincinnati Times-Star, November 15.—Yale will ' meet Harvard next Saturday, and the winner of that game will be heralded throughout the East as the football champion of the country. And the victor In that greatest of all contests of the gridiron year will undoubtedly deserve the football championship of the East. But out here in the West there are a couple of football elevens that w^ould like nothing better than an opportunity to mix. up with the win­ner of that Yale-Harvard match in a battle royal for the pigskin sovereignity. Those two teams rep­resent Minnesota and Notre Dame college in Indiana. 


192 NOTRE DAME 
Ine West is more nearly the equal of the East on 
the gridiron this year than it has eA-er been. There 

were two great East-West contests Saturday, and the 
West came out on top in one of them and tied the 
other, ilichigan outplayed Pennsylvania and won 
out 32 to 6. Chicago made it even up G to 6 with 
Cornell. 
Of course, neither Pennsylvania nor Cornell are 
as strong as Yale and Harvard, but then neither are 
Chicago and ^Michigan as good as Notre Dame and 
Minnesota, for Notre Dame licked Michigan 11 to 3 
and iliunesota beat Chicago 20 to 6. So there are 
only comparative scores to go by in rating the best 
in the AYest with the best in the East. And this is 
rather unsatisfactory. But it's the best to be had. 
So here you are. 
Compare :Minnesota with Harvard via Cornell. Chicago and Cornell ])layed a tie. Harvard beat Cor­nell 18 to 0. Hence. Minnesota's 20 to 6 Aictory oA'er Chicago doesn't make jMiunesota size up half-bad as a worthy rival of proud Cambridge. 
The dojie comparing Notre Dame with Yale is more roundabout, with Princeton furnishing the link that gives an indirect line of comparison. Lafayette beat Princeton 6 to 0. Lafayette tied Pennsylvania 6 to 6. Michigan beat Pennsylvania last Saturday 12 to 6. And Notre Dame beat IMichigan the previous Saturday 11 to o. Yale trounced Princeton last Sat­urday 17 to 0. Does that make the Indianiaus of Notre Dame look puny beside the sons of old Eli? Not by a long shot. 
And yet. when all's said and done, it must be acknowledged that Yale seems to haA'^e just a bit the better of everybody else and that Yale would rule a favorite in the betting against Minnesota or Notre Dame just as against .Johnny Harvard, but the odds wouldn't be very lopsided. It's a pity Yale or Har­vard doesn't meet either of the two best in the West. 
• * * * 
BL-VIXK PATTOX {Iitdianapolis Star), November 22. —Notre Dame University can now rightfully boast of the champion football eleven of the West. The de­cisibe victory on last Saturday of Minnesota at the hands of Yost's ^Michigan University eleven gives the up-state collegians the call in the title. Notre Dame won a clean-cut game from the IMichiganders, 11 to 3, and since the Gophers established an undisputed championship claim among the conference schools, the result of beating Wisconsin and Chicago, the Catholics can not be euchered out of their grounds. 
Although a number of Chicago critics see nothing to it but ^Michigan for the Western championship, contending that Yost'e men were simply caught nap­])ing and in poor form when Notre Dame turned the trick two weeks ago, results have to go for i-esults and the latter eleven has the drop on all o])ponents for the championship. Aside from defeating jVIichi­gan Notre Dame took the jNIichigan "Aggies" down the line for a 17 to 0 score and this team in turn defeated Marquette 10 to 0. ]\larquette meets Notre Dame next Thursday and this will give the Catholics a third opportunity to demonstrate the sujieriority of their athletes over the Michigan men. 
It has been many years since a state institution has won such a great distinction as a Western cham­pionshi]) on the gridiron, and rival schools even in the State of Indiana are glad to see the coveted title land within the borders of Hoosiedoom. 
The rating of Indiana college teams is as follows: 
1.
 Notre Dame UniA'^ersity. 

2.
 Indiana University. 

3.
 Wabash College. 4.. Purdue UuiA'crsity. .5. Rose Polytechnic Institute. 6, 7 and S. Tie—DePauw University, Earlham Col­


lege and Butler College. '. 9. Hanover College. -10. Franklin College. 


SCHOLASTIC 
Indianapolis J^'eics. NoA'^ember 2.—With all the 1909 football games bearing on the sectional cham­pionships played. Yale and Notre Dame are proclaim­ed the respectiA'^e champions of the East and West. Neither team Avas defeated during the season, and the records of the eleA'ens indicate that they are among the strongest that ever represented American col­leges. Yale's record probably is the better, as she has Avon her title in the final game of the season and from her strongest riA^al, Haiward. On the other hand Notre Dame clinched her title by defeating Michigan tAvo weeks ago. It Avould be decidedly un­fair to detract from the performances of the Notre Dame elOA^en this year, howeA'er. Coach Longman has a Avouderful team that has done Avell eA'erything that has been asked of it. It Avent to Pittsburg and defeated the poAverful UniA'^ersity of Pittsburg elcA'en. that had beaten Carlisle, and minus tAvo of its best men, it decisiA-elj' trounced Michigan at Ann Arbor. One Aveek later IMichigan Avent to Philadelphia and defeated PennsylA-ania, that had shoAvn good form one Aveek previous by running up a big score OA^er Carlisle. 
Notre Dame can not be denied, and although the football supremacy of the East has generally been conceded, it looks as if the West has this year de­veloped one elCA'^en that is capable of holding its OAvn Avith the champion of the East. Com]jaratiA'-e scores do not make Yale appear one whit stronger than Notre Dame. * * * * Walter camp, the former Yale player and well-known Eastern critic. saAv the Michigan-Notre Dame game and praised the latter highly. He pronounced Miller the best halfback he had seen this yeai-. 
NotAA'ithstandiug Michigan's defeat at the hands of Notre Dame, Coach Yost, of the WolA'erines, is claiming the Western championship title. Yost's statements haA^e the sound of a sorry Avail and they are not expected to be taken seriously. Michigan played Notre Dame after the latter had beaten the strong Michigan Agricultural College team by a big score and had also beaten the powerful Pittsburg team after the latter's A-ictory oA^er Cai-lisle. i\Iichi­gan had plenty of Avarning that Notre Dame was strong and Michigan used her full strength against Notre Dame, AA-hile Dwyer and EdAvards, tAVO Notre Dame mainstays, did not get into the contest on ac­count of injuries. The Michigan Aggies Avon over Marquette, 10 to 0, while IVIichigau defeated Mar­quette 6 to .5. Notre Dame will play JMarquette Thursday and she is confident of running up a big score on the strong Wisconsin elcA'en in the Mihvau­kee game. 
" * * * Cincinnati Times-Star, NoA'ember 22.—But isn't Notre Dame the real thing out West Avith incident­ally considerable shoAV for disputing Avith Yale in any argument as to AA'hich is really the greatest football eleven of the year? ilichigan licked Minne­sota Saturday 15 to 6, and thereby became champion of the Western Conference. '"Conference," mind you. But Avhen it comes to the championship of the Aviiole West, there can he no gainsaying the claims that Notre Dame up there in Indiana is It Avith a capital "I," and those Avho saAv Notre Dame beat Michigan 11 to 3 the Aveek after Michigan had swamped Syra­cuse '43 to 0, say that 11 to 3 only represents by about one-half Avhat the real scoi-e should have been. Notre Dame should haA'^e had at least two more touch dOAvns, hut the officials of the game saved Michigan twice by penalties against the Indianiaus. So, if Notre Dame.is that much better than-Michi­gan, which can swamp Syracuse and Avhich heat Pennsylvania "12 to 6, Notre Dame must be taken seriously. Walter Camp, the greatest football expert in the Avorld, is taking Notre Dame seriously. The report is that he is picking Miller, one of the Noti-e " Dame halves, for his All-American eleven. 


