-~--·----:_........-··--,...------·~--·-~-: ~:r--···--·
!'-····­
"' 
-------------------------~------____:::-:::-----------' --:,-­
---:i 
~ 
~ 
(tl 
3 
9 
(') 
fdo £­
! I 9~
~ 

cP--\>
-1 -·· 
~ 

t.o o~ 
REV. J. C. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. 
Prcsidr11! of U11i'ZN·rsi!y of 1Volrc Dm1u· 






Winners of Monograms, 1910 
RALPH C, DIMICK GEORGE PHILBROOK 
Gapta'in an<l 'Packle 'l'aekle 
JOSF.PH COLLINS LUKE KELLEY 
It:nrl 
Guc"'d 
. LEE MATHEWS CJ·!ARLES DORAIS 
Ifolj Rae/;: o_,,arter Back 
WALTER CLINNIN ARTHUR CLil'l'INGER 
Halj Beeck 7,·,,u Rack 
JOHN STANSFIELD
TUIWIS 0AAS 
Gum·<I.
Grrnnl 
CHAS. CRAWLEY WILLIAM MARTIN 
Encl En<I. 
C. McGRATH To:.r FOLEY 
F11UHrr"f.: Center 
NOTRE DAME SQUAD, I91 O 
Varsity Review 
SEPTEMBER 12th the first call for football recruits
0 N 
was issued. Twelve men reported, and the squad steadily 
increased until it numbered thirty-five. 
On October 8th the usual game with Olivet opened 
the season for Notre Dame. The same old tale, "Olivet 
Swamped by Notre Dame," tells the story. The Notre 
Dame Tean:i looked good individually, but lack of team work and fumbling cost Notre Dame several touchdowns. Almost the entire Squad was used, and 'the strength of the 1910 team partially realized. 
The famed Buchtel team, from Akron, Ohio, with their goal line uncrossed and several good scalps at their belt, came to Cartier Field. Fifty-one to 0 was score, and all the joy on Notre Dame's side. 
The team was beginning to get into real Notre Dame form when they struck one of these inexplicable mid-season slumps. At Lansing, Mich., on October 8th, out-lucked and out-played, they were beaten by M. A. C. 17 to 0. Beaten in the first game that a Notre Dame football team has lost in two years. The characteristic Notre Dame fight was lacking, and with fevv exceptions the men played a loggy, listless game. 
That Notre Dame had learned her lesson was proven when, two weeks 
later, the team came back with a slashing attack against the strong Rose Poly 
team. They rolled up 41 points to Rose Poly's 3, and "Hez" Clark pronounced 
the Notre Dame team one of the strongest in the Vvest. 
\i\Tith the season drawing to a close, the team was vvorkecl night and clay per­
fecting their players for the crucial struggle with Marquette on Thanksgiving 
Day. 
November 19th came, and the team played their final game on the home 
grounds with Ohio Northern, the latter falling before the powerful rushes of 
Notre Dame. The ball was carried over the goal line and kicked between the 
posts often enough to make the final count 47 to 0. 
Arriving at. IVIilwaukee the clay before Thanksgiving, the Notre Dame Team 
found the 1Vfarquette field three inches cleep in mud. Despite rain during the 
night and the next morning, game was called at 3 p. rn. 
Notre Dame kicked off to Marquette's twenty-yard line. In two rushes 
Marquette failed to gain a yard, and pnntecl on the third clown. Through the 
entire first half Marquette was forced to play on the defensive. Notre Dame 
made repeated tries for goals from the field, but were unable to score by this means. Late in the first half, on a blocked :i\farqnette pass and a recovered ball, a Notre Dame man staggered over the goal line for what proved to be Notre Dame's only score. \i\iith three minutes remaining in the first half, l\!Iarquette kicked to Notre Dame. In t\vo rushes Notre Dame gained twenty yards, and then kicked to l\!Iarquette's twenty-five-yard line, where the ball was recovered by a Notre Dame man. Time was called a fevv seconds later, and another chance for Notre Dame to score was lost. Notre Dame started the second half by kicking off to Marquette. For the first time during the game, Niarquette showed that they could gain, and Notre Dame was slowly forced back. vVith the ball on the six-inch line, the Marquette full~back fumbled, but three :Marquette men recovered the ball behind Notre Dame's goal line. Neither team scored again, and the game ended with both teams fighting hard on Notre 
Dame's thirty-five-yard line. 
Scoring 192 points to their opponents' 25, the 1910 Notre Dame team 
deserves to be classed with the best in the \Vest. They Jost but one game, and 
that to a teai11 unbeaten on their own grounds in nine years. 
Oct. .8th-Olivet vs. N. D., at Notre Dame. 0., O; N. D., 48. Oct. 22nd-Buchtel "'s. N. D., at Notre Dame. B., 0; N. D., 51. Oct. 29th-NL A. C. 'i)S. N. D., at Notre Dame. M. A. C., 17; N. D., 0. Nov. 12th-Rose Poly vs. N. D., at Terre Haute. R. P., 3; N. D., 41. Nov. 19th-Ohio Northern 'l.!S. N. D., at Notre Dam. 0. N., O; N. D., 47. Nov. 24th-Marquette vs. N. D., at Milwaukee. M., 5; N. D., 5. 

WALSH HALL TEAM, 1910 
BROWNSON HALL TEAM, 1910 


INTER-HALL CHAMPIONS 
CORBY HALL TEAM 
Inter-Hall Review 
WHEN Corby beat Sorin 12 to 6 in the deciding game for the Hall Championship, the most brilliant Hall football series ever held at Notre Dame was ended. From the opening game to the final every game \Vas fought to the bitter encl. The St. Joseph Team, handicapped by lack of material and time to practice, were unable to finish the season. In the few games they played they fought hard and might have been contenders for championship honors had they completed their schedule. Brownson fought hard in every game, but were overcome by older and more experienced teams. vValsh, with the lightest team in the league, played brilliant ball and were the most successful users of the fonvarcl pass seen on Cartier Field during the year. From the start of the season it looked as if the final fight would be between Sorin and Corby. \i\fith older and more experienced men they were easily the class of the Inter-Hall Teams. Good all-around ends were scarce. Fish of Sorin, while not playing an encl this year, is the best Inter-Hall encl at Notre Dame, fast, strong, and a wonder on an encl-around play. For the other end, Campbell of Sorin is given the preference over Sommers of Corby and Boujan of \Valsh because of his speed and kicking ability. O'Rourke of Brownson was the best tackle of the year. A power on defense, fast getting clown under punts, and a fighter all the way. Gutherest of Corby is too good a man to keep off of any team, and is given the other tackle. Moritz of Corby stands in a class by himself for the guard position. Hicks of vValsh, who played a steady, consistent game all season, would make a good running mate for Moritz. At center, Hyle of Corby, although light, played a brilliant defensive game, and his passing was excellent. Vv'ith Fish shifted to encl, Mehlern of Corby is the first choice for half-back; fast, a brilliant open-field runner and the best punter in the University, he would be a tower of strength to any team. Howard of St. Joseph, the other choice for half-back, besides being a po·werful line bucker is the best defensive back playing Inter-Hall football. For foll-back, Jones of Corby outclassed his competitors, and should be a strong contender for Varsity honors next year. For quarter-back, Hugg of Vv'alsh ran his team in brilliant style, ancl would be the best man to handle an All-Star team. 
), 
l 
All Inter-Hall Teams 
First Team-
Ends-Fish, Sorin; Campbell, Sorin. Tackles-0'Rourke, Brownson; Gutherest, Corby. Guards-lVIoritz, Corby; Hicks, 'Naish. Center-Hyle, Corby. Half-backs-Mehlem, Corby; I-:Toward, St. Jo. Quarter-back-Hugg, \i\Talsh. Full-back-]ones, Corby. 
Second Team­
Ends-Sommers, Corby; Boujan, \Valsh. Tackles-Yuncl, Corby; Hebner, Corby. Guards-Rubio, Sorin; Shannon, Sorin. Center-'Nhite, vValsh. Half-backs-Larkin, ·walsh; McNichol, ·walsh. Quarter-back-McAllen, Sorin. 
Full-back-0':-Jea!, Brownson. 
MAYER & t.llLLER co.. PRltlTERS 341-351 DEAl!llOAN ST., cmr,Ai]I) 



