
o5? 
;C' 
The famous Rose Bowl Seats 95,000 people. Yet it would take More than ten Rose Bowls To hold All the parents And merchants And farmers And everyday people In all walks of life Who are Bell System stockholders. About 975,000 people-including 200,000 telephone employees-Have invested A part of their savings In the telephone business. It's their money That helps make possible This country's Top-notch telephone service— A service vital to our National defense effort. 
"» " 
9cK 
^. 
^^98Mi 
1 

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
Football 

POPULAR 

with 

COLLEGE MEN 

White Oxford Cloth 


ROLL COLLAR SHIRTS 
Regularly $3.95 

$2 65 

1 3 UTTON-DOWN style shirt in soft, comfortable -' ^ white oxford cloth, with the wanted widespread roll collar and French cuffs. A shirt for new comfort as well as style, destined to remain a favorite of college men. Sizes 14 to 17. 
GILBERT'S 
OPEN EVERY EVENING until 9:00 813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Review 
E,ook • • • and feel • • • if our best in a smariiy tailored 


SHRADMOOR TUXEDO 
Correct in every detail • • • and only 
39.30 
Shradmoor Tuxedos are tailored to give you the comfort of a business suit, yet, detailed for correct formal appearance. Sizes for ALL men . . . even you who wear EXTRA long. Adler fitted . . . your assurance of a smooth, perfectly-groomed appearance. 
New "Tony Martin" Single breasted Tux 65.00 Varsity Town Full Dress Suits or Tu.xedos 58.00 
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON 
for a SUCCESSFUL SEASON We are proud of Notre Dame 
.^ 
We too are receiving plaudits for the excellence of our 
•
 ALUMINUM WINDOWS 

•
 THERMOPANE 

•
 STORE FRONT DESIGNS 

•
 VITROLITE BATHS 

•
 GLASS and GLAZING 

•
 CUSTOM MIRRORS 


We will gladly help you with any of your Glass or Paint Problems. 
-^ 



INTERSTATE 
Glass and Paint Co., Inc. 
South Bend 4-1164 4-1164 
Football 



Ice Cream 

Refreshingly Yours 



YOU PAY NO MORE 
for Dance Lessons at 
• You actually save money because you learn the new dances in a fraction of the usual time. 
DANCE AFTER ONLY ONE LESSON 
Arthur Murray's amazing Magic Step gives you the shortcut to mastery of all the new steps! His talented experts quickly bring out your natural grace and sense of rhythm — make you fun to dance with and a pleasure to watch. 
With the prestige of Arthur Murray behind you, you step out with new confidence .. . to new popularity. 
See what Arthur Murray offers you. Come in or phone 2-3339. 
ARTHUR MURRAY 
120 E. WAYNE. SOUTH BEND 
Call 2-3.339 for a FREE Trial Lesson Today. 
Kev tew 
aP^ 

Service Printers, Inc. Tfo^tt^cfut ^acUcuuCxr ^€in^c^ ^Oiumencial ^xuiten^. 
\ 


CnLOM campus 
Burt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man's staple diet). A "Manhattan," of course. 
\/ Range 
$3.95 

Ronge—fin e white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan," which means perfect fit-
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "'Manhattan" shirts, ties, I underwear, pajamas, sportsfiirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs. \ 
Vol. 92 December 8, 1950 No. 12 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus 
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918. 
Editor 

KENNETH A. THOREN '51 
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51 
JOHN J. POWERS '52... News CHARLES B. DULLEA '52....Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports JACK R. VARLEY '52 Assistant Sports JAMES E. MCLAUGHLIN '51....PhotographY LEON GARDNER, '52 _ Librarian M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51 Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52 Circulation TAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation DALE FRANCIS Faculty Moderator 
Member of Catholic School Press .Usociation. .As­sociated Collegiate Press,. Represented for national advertising by National .Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madibon .\\enue. .New York City. 
Tnh SciiO!.\STic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina­tion periods at the Univeisitv of .Notre Dame. .Ad­dress all manusciipis to the I£ditoi. Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Contributors to Football Ls.sue 
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bol­ger, ])on Carbone, Pat Carrico, Valen­tine Chun, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Eobert Finney, Thomas Godfrey, Pat O'Mailey, Johii Quetsch, William Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Paul Zalecki, Ronald Zier. 
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fer­nandes, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaner, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust, Joe Straub. 
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brick-son, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Har­old Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Ji-., and Jerry Sheehan. 
FEATURE STAFF: Larry McDermott and Dan Brennan. 
J'i 
Ttie (950 Tbotball Season 
;-»-M»-T(TVni 
ISM^ 
A lilt viiinini-i. kin\\;;.y ( .1 vs.i111iijs iiiiiiiiud tli< l^t'iii Niiii, D.uiii ti'dih.iil ii .1111 uouhi r.ii-'t \Mih Uili.i! I 111 s. \i]-.. jidk s.iu! tin-Imi!.' uiniiiiiL: <lr-.ik u.is hnuncl (u Im.ik Dm tin uau'­
;nu !'ll ..r. i!. .ii ,..i- .\,.ui\ sjmns wiitiis. i.uis. lnv.il •.nulriits wunkl h.iM- iiotliiim tn lin 
•.Mtli M.. h I iK. i I), ii .i;ii U.I-, i:uinL; to he :is nii ,it .i^ , \ i r iidtliinu i ouhi sidj) iis 
RL \I-I.^ ni''.li:iiL ...iiii: \\, v.,;. t" ,iti u. sm, _ but t!ua ilithi't stop us. \\ luu tin pioj)lu is IKH; 
not ,1-in .ml. lo ini.iill \\,,s tin \\.i\ d'ff.it u.is to lie .unpiiil .11 .Xolii D.iini' \\ hcthi 1 w lost. uo!i o: c'l.i. iliiM- w.is Muc thitm tli.u tc lii.iitu <i i oust.ml tliinuiilunu tin s< .isuis 
u.is spii.t hisf.u: ot (K'lji; .itt. 1 ih- Puuhir .lil<. It
 It till \\ X(i It. hr I I

nil m till- I oiintr\ 
I oiiui n.i\ I .is.Ni ii '.{•] '~U .If 1 sUIipol t 

WKLLlNc; ill \oli.n!. . till spun ,,1 tin stuuciu hod\ u.i.s .ilinost iiiil)i-lir\.ii)l, But tlu- stiulciits 
(iian t th.iik s,, It u.is !M.iri\ sonii ihiim .•.\pi-, ii-(l of Xoiii D.iiiit mt n If uc c oulil \t II .uul 
111 iJH'iiil ..I tin I' .11: uli: 11 ihr\ wi II uinnint;. \vr I ouhi do tin- s.niu wlifil tlir uoiiiu u.is loiiuli. 
HLRK ill'n. looknu n.ii k on it. w.is n si-;is(in to n-iiii-iiibi i 
-f^3 
:--«s 

ivAyf'li 
iJ^­

-isV*. 
I 

I'^.'J''-.­
iMkr 

•"•'^ 
.-^•imes! 
/SSlI*"' ,­
¥2 
-SM^^ 
*»*«^; 
.^vs 

^:v:=sS';:;-in<r^4^iFr«i>r^':-*'.-:3v.-^;.;.v>r^—^ 




Too ^Mntseh' for Rebels 
By FRANK RONNENBERG, '52 
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 30.—Today, under a boiling hot sun that drove the thermometer upwards of 7.5 degrees, a fighting Notre Dame football team suc­cessfully stifled North Carolina's bid for gridiron fame. It was a tremendously keyed up team that Carl Suavely brought to South Bend but sparked by the bril­liant passing of Bob Williams, the Irish forced the Tarheels to capitulate by a score of 14-7. 
The closeness of the score cannot even approximate the closeness of the strug­gle. Notre Dame Stadium shook under the impact of 56,500 wildly cheering fans who were talking upset for the major portion of the game. 
It was all Irish in the opening min­utes thanks to a bad case of jitters suf­fered by the boys from Chapel Hill. The Irish kicked off to open the game and Carolina end Tom Higgins promptly fumbled the ball. Paul Burns fell on it for the Irish and they were first and ten on the Tarheel 23. However, a clip­ping penalty forced the Irish to punt and Carolina took over on their own 20­yard line. Then, on the first play from scrimmage, wingback Bud Wallace let the pass fi-om center elude him and Bob Toneflf fell on it for Notre Dame on the Tarheel ten. On fourth dowTi, with three yards to go, Bob Williams passed to Jim Mutscheller in the end zone. Joe Caprara kicked the extra point and minutes and 40 seconds, the 7-0. 
Notre Dame started again ments later after a Carolina 
 after two  Irish led, 
a few mo­ punt had 

put them back to their own 14. Bill Barrett took a pitchout from Bob AVil­liams, cut back and raced 52 yards to the Carolina 32. It looked like another day in the country for the Irish but the optimism was short lived. Carolina held, took over on downs and the punting duel began. When the air finally cleared the Irish found themselves back on their o\\Ti 25. Williams promptly filled the air with passes and on the strength of five completions, Notre Dame drove to the Tarheel 20-yard line. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, Dick Bunting of North Ca­rolina was on the receiving end of Wil­liams' sixth pass and the Irish were stymied for the third time. An inter­ception of a Hayes pass by Bill Gay closed out Carolina's only threat to Notre Dame's lead and the half ended soon after. 
There was an aura of expectancy about the crowd as the second half opened. The Irish ground attack, Avith the exception of Barrett's run, had failed to materialize and the Tarheels appeared late in the half to be getting the range of Williams' passes. In addition, Caro­lina's case of nei-ves was over and their offense was becoming more formidable. 
The second half looked like a tough haul 
for the Irish. It was. 
The Tarheels made their first drive early in the third quarter. Starting deep in his own territory. Bunting car­ried to the Irish 49 in two plays. After Hayes completed a pass to the 33, he circled the Irish left end to the 9, then burst through the middle to the one. That is as far as the Tarheels got that trip though. After two plunges failed 
CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, Oct. 1 
Dick Hackenberg 

Twenty million people across the nation refused to believe their eyes. Football his­tory was in the making on their television screens. Then, before the greatest assem­blage ever to watch a grid contest, the Irish pulled it out. 
to crack the hard charging Notre Dame line a fourth down desperation pass was intercepted by Burns. Burns took off like a scared jackrabbit and ran the ball out to the Tarheel 48. 
The ball changed hands several times and then Carolina struck again. With Hayes and Cooke leading the charge, they stormed to the Notre Dame 20-yard line in five plays. Two plays later Bud Wallace circled right end for a touch­down and Sherman tied the score with a perfect placement. 
The crowd slowly recovered from their stunned surprise and sat back to watch, certain that Notre Dame would now come roaring back. Such was not the case; Carolina wouldn't let them. They continued to drive and fight and carry the attack to the Irish. 
Late in the fourth period, Notre Dame started moving. Williams passed to Landry for 15 yards and then passed again to Landry over the center of the line. The Irish had a first down on the North Carolina 36-yard line, but there were only two minutes and 40 seconds to go. Williams again faded to pass and this time he hit Jim Mutscheller in the end zone for the %vinning score. 
The clock ran out on North Carolina, and Notre Dame, scoring early and scoring late, had run its string to 39. ^ 
Football 

Mutscheller grabs pass from Wijlian-.s (9) to score first Irish touchdown of season. 
IP 
r 

X Boilermakers End It All 28-14 
6> 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 7.—Modern football's longest unbeaten streak Avas brought to a sudden close this afternoon when Purdue brought mighty Notre Dame to its knees for the first time in 40 games. More than 56,000 imbelieving fans huddled in the Stadium and watched the Boilermakei-s give the Irish a 28-14 walloping in a game that ended in a driving rain. 
The Boilermakers, who held a 21-0 
half-time lead, weathered a late Notre 
Dame rally to record their first victory 
over the Irish since 1933. The final 
score represents the worst defeat ab­
sorbed by a Leahy-coached Notre Dame 
team. A 32-20 loss to Michigan in 1942 
was the previous high. That gams was 
the last Notre Dame defeat on home 
soil until the Boilermakers turned the 
trick. 
The last time the Irish were defeated 
previously was by the Great Lakes serv­
ice team, 39-7, on Dec. 1, 1945. Since 
then Leahy's Legions amassed the great­
est record, in modern football by rolling 
through 39 consecutive games -without a 
loss. Only ties Avith Army in 1946 and 
Southern California in 1948 marred an 
otherwise perfect record. This was only 
the fourth loss absorbed by a Leahy­
coached team in eight seasons vinder the 
Grolden Dome. 
The Purdue victory was no fiuke. The Boilermakers were in command through­out, and the 56,748 fans huddled in the 
CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, Oct. 8 
Jack Clarke 

In Dublin -town the flags droop at half-mast. The wail of the banshee echoes mourn­fully across Killarney's lakes and dells. Hearts are heavy where the River Shannon flows and men speak in awed whispers of the worst disaster to afllict the Irish since the great potato famine. 
After avoiding defeat for 39 straight games Notre Dame, most westerly bastion of the Emerald Isle, lost to Purdue here Saturday. 
Stadium realized early that they were going to Avitness the impossible. The whole team Avas up, but the main factor in the upset Avas the passing and field generalship of quarterback Dale Sam­uels. The 161-pound Sophomore from Chicago gained 158 yards through the 
By JIM BRISLIN, '52 

air and handled the green Purdue team like a master. 
Veteran fullback John Kerestes and 
halfback Neil Schmidt picked up 81 and 
80 yards, respectively, through the once 
iron-clad Irish forAvard'Avail. 
A hard-rushing Purdue line and alert 
pass defenders made this afternoon one 
of the poorest Bob Williams had ever 
experienced. The Baltimore lad com­
pleted seven passes in 22 tries for a net 
gain of only 46 yards. 
Purdue got off to a 7-0 lead in the first quarter. An exchange of punts gave the Boilermakers the ball on the Notre Dame 49. Schmidt carried to a first doAvn on the 32, and a Samuels pass Avas ruled complete on the two on inter­ference. Kerestes Avent over from there and Samuels convei'ted. 
The Irish couldn't get out of their OAATi territory in the second quarter, and Purdue scored twice as the gams began to give indications of turning into a rout. 
After one of Notre Dame's patented goal line stands stopped the Arisitors on the seven, Williams punted out of bounds on the Irish 42. A Samuels to Schmidt pass put the ball on the six, and Kerestes AA'^ent over on two carries for his second touchdoAvn of the afternoon. With eight minutes remaining of the period, Sam­uels converted to make it 14-0. 
Notre Dame failed to moA'e, and Pui-­due took over on doAvns at midfield. Ker­estes and Schmidt cracked to a first doAvn on the 39. An offside penalty set them back to the 44. After a pitchout to As the third period opened, Cotter re­
covered a Purdue fumble on the 12. Bar­
rett and Gay moved to the three, where 
Landry failed to gain. On fourth down, 
Willi-ms passed to Mutscheller for the 
TT). Caprara converted making it 21-7. 
Purdue Avas fighting, too. After an 
exchange of punts, Barrett's fumble was 
recovered by Montgomery on the 18. Six 
plays later the Boilermakers were on 
the one, but Samuels Avas stopped a foot 
short and Kerestes lost two as the Irish 
took OA-er. 
Another punt exchange gave Notre Dame possession on their 27. Purdue was penalized to the 43 for unnecessary roughness and Barrett legged it to the visitors' 23. Three plays carried to the ten. Petitbon went over left tackle for the score; Caprara converted. 
It was not to be^ hoAvever. Samuels 
completed a third doAvn pass to Maccioli 
on the Irish 45, and he went all the way 
to Avrap it up, 28-14. 
After the game, as Coach Holcomb was bombarded Avith Avell-Avishei-s, his players leaped over benches and shouted at the top of their lungs. 
The coach kept saying, "It's wonder­ful, wonderful. I'll feel better in three or four hours. Eight now I honestly don't know hoAv I feel. I didn't think we could do it. I just hoped." 
DiminutiA'e Dale Samuels said, "We could have licked the whole state of Tex­as today. The whole week long I had a feeling we Avere going to Avin. We were up for this game." 
Schmidt gained 14, Samuels tossed to the halfback and Purdue romped off the field Avith a 21-0 lead as the half ended. 
The Notre Dame team that took the field to start the second half may not have been one of the greatest to ever represent the Univer­sity, but they Avere one of the fightingest. Out­played in every depart­ment throughout the first half, they came back strong. They out­fought the boys from Lafayette, and came aAArfuUv close to a Avin. 
Groom, Mutscheller, Burns (64) move in on Boilermaker back. 
Review 13 
Coach Leahy confers with Coach Bill Earley (above left) before sending Bob Williams into play. Leahy looks pensive as minutes run out (above right). After the Pur­due defeat the Coach is surrounded by reporters in equipment part of locker room. 
The Day m 
Text by KEN THOREN, '51, Scholastic Editor 4,, 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 7.—Notre Dame's dressing room that had echoed with Avhooi5s and hollers the past four • years was silent a little before five to­night. 
The few intruders in the equipment room talked in whispers. When Coach Frank Leahy walked in they seemed reti-A cent about asking questions. The coacV^gP­apparently understood for he spoke first. 
"Gentlemen, we lost to a better team 
t 
than we were today. But if we had to lose I am glad it was to a time-honored foe like Purdue. That Purdue team was great. They didn't make any mistakes . . . offensively, they were superb." 
Leahy peered dejectedly at the coffee he was holding and waited for questions. 
How about the breaks? 

"The breaks usually go to the team that is most alert. We have no alibis; we lost to a team that was better than ours." > 
Cliaracteristically, Leahy jjut the blame on himself. "We were outcoached," he said. 
And next week? "I haven't thought about that yet, but one thing is certain—^we'll show up." 
Coach Leahy turned and walked down the locker room aisle. He stopped and spoke to his players as he went. The only noise in the room was made by the hiss of showers. Chuck Feigl came up to the coach, tried to talk, then broke down. 
L4^?^€ts^A.vg.-!r-^^g!fei^Jasfe>^faafi«V?«?>i^iak;»^^ 
_„_„ _ , aa,i»ni»m.jg:.o.».^ 

Irish Fell 
•OS by JIM MCLAUGHLIN, '5I, Photo Editor 
The players were all silent as they towelled themselves but their red-rimmed eyes said a lot more than their words could ever express. You could see they were more exhausted mentally than physically. 
Bob Williams looked stunned. His face . was gaunt and expressionless. He beg­*ged off with, "What can I say? What is 
there to say?" Though the locker room was quiet, several thousand loyal students stood outside in a cold, drizzling rain, cheering and yelling for Leahy and the team. The coach Avent out and the crowd hushed. "Men, a lot of people will be watching how we take this adversity. "It's a real test of real men to be able to lose like champions." The crowd roar­ed, "We're behind you, coach." , Then they started chanting for the 'players. As each one came out the locker room door he was lifted aloft and car­i-ied part way back to the campus. The band was playing and the students kept up their loyal cheering. Over in Purdue's dressing room there was a celebration of a different type going on. But in Notre Dame's quarters there was no noise. The few remaining players dressed slowly, as if it was a chore. Everything Avas sort of sad in there be­cause the Irish—^the Irish who fight to . win—had lost today. 
•#* 
X 
•\**^* 
l*^^^ 
-;te. 

Julius Tucker and Herb Jones try to buck up Captain Jerry Groom (center bottom) while (above) his father also offers some words of encouragement after the loss. 
^ 

A huge crowd of loyal ND students waited for their team in a cold, drixzling rain. They show Bob Williams (above and belowl that defeat doesn't damn*-" •>"»;' s":"*­
SSft5i2s?S<lt««SsS5SSrliS»?li5SiSS 
. ,_^ • . j-i.iCj. t!-»;..—^~i-. 
Tulane Toppled 13-0 
•'4 ''^:r"d 

Brothers John and Richey Petitbon sparked teams in ND and NORD games. 
Xew Orleaii.-, La., Oct. 14.—The bril­liant right arm of All-.A.merican Bob Williams was hotter than the broiling Xew Orleans sun today, as the Irish skii)])er calmed a temiiestuou? Tulane Green Wave and guided Xotre l)ame's victory ship, wrecked by the Purdue holocaust a week before, to a heart­]-ending i;]-!) win. 
.A.lmost 7o,()(K) sweltering fans, includ­ing 40(1 Irish student trii)pers, jammed the huge Sugar Bowl to watch the Balti­more Bullet jia.-^s Xotre Dame to its sixth sti^aight triumjih over the Lou­isianians. 
It wa.-a bruising battle, this last in the current series between the jiujiils of two of America's toji football ]irofessors, Frank Leahy and Henry Frnka. Xotre Dame's Bill Barrett had to be carried fi'om the field in the fii'st half and he was followed to the -sidelines by a parade of injured from both sides. 
Tulane whetted the appetite of its up­set hungry rooters when it took the open­ing kickoff and in five jjlays marched (Jo yards for a touchdown. The main ap­petizer was a 34-yard pass from Joe Ernst to Ellsworth Kingei-y which car­ried to X^otre Dame's four. George Kinek cut around the Irish flank to score fi'om there. 
This only served to rile uji the temjier of Leahy's lads, who, to the delight of their ]ileading fellow students, rushed to tie the count at seven all. Two Williams aerials ate up most of the 80 yards the Irish marched. 
The first was a 23-yard heave to Jim Mutscheller who made a leaping catch on Notre Dame's 42. After a smash at the rugged Wave line failed, the Irish field general calmly faded and pitched Bv BILL 
a iierfect strike to John Petitbon. Dash­ing John, perfoi'ining before his home town neighbors, turned on his speed and romped the distance to the score. Joe Caprara added the tying point. 
Looking for the first time this season like the Iiish of jiast years, Xotre Dame forged into the lead in the second period when they rolled (57 yards to tally what proved to be the winning marker. Wil­liams mi.xed his jilays beautifully, using ])asses to Mutscheller and Petitbon as crucial ground gainers. The grand finale came on a handoff to Del Gander. "Goose" spun ten yards uj) the middle and dove into ])aydirt. 
.A.fter the intermission the men from X'^ew Oi'leans battered the Irish forward wall again and again, but they could jiot ])ush across the tying score. Meanwhile, 
XEW YORK TIMES. Oct. 15 

XD beat Tulane. 13 lo 9, today, but the brains, the driving legs, and the passing arm of quarterback Bob Williams was ail that saved the Irish from another Saturday of defeat. 
Xotre Dame cotild muster only one sus­tained drive in the final -30 minutes, a third quarter scoring bid engineered with a double quarterback, Williams and John Mazur, under the center. 
This attack s])uttered to a halt and then the Wave launched one of their own which almost snatched victory from the Irish warriors. Kinek, a great Greenie halfback all afternoon, broke away for 48 yards to the X'^otre Dame 10-yard line. The Tulane si)eedster was  LO.XDO, '53 
finally shoved out of bounds by Bill Gay's last second lunge. Two jilays later Cajitain Jerry Groom spiked the threat by pouncing on a fumble. 
The fired-up Southerners dropped Williams behind his own goal line to give Tulane its last two points and trim the Irish lead to 13-9. Only the Balti­moi-e Beauty's booming punts kept the AVave away from X^otre Dame's goal the rest of the way. 
Leahy's running attack was complete­ly stymied by the Wave. Tulane's line led by tackles Paul Lea and Don Joyce, and bulwarked by massive Jerome Hel­luin, throttled the Irish ground game to a meager 34 yai-ds, while the Greenie backs ripped for 224 yards behind their savage blocking. 
The superb line ])]ay only made the exploits of Williams all the more re­markable. Bob was rushed badly throughout the game and at one point had to be helped from the field after a vicious tackle by the 2S0-pound Helluin. Yet, Williams completed 1(? out of 3-5 ])asses for 22.j yards and had a punting average of nearly 43 yards. 
.Although Tulane's forward wall was tremendous, X^otre Dame had its heroes up front, too. Captain Groom played what was perhaps his outstanding game. He backed up the line as only Groom can do, called defensive signals shrewdly, and played the entire game on offense. Two Sophomores, Jim Dunlay and Bob Kelly, were especially efi'ective, as was Groom's line backing cohort, Byron Boji. 
By winning, Notre Dame jjroved its ability to bounce back from defeat, some­thing an Irish eleven had not been called ujion to do for five years. 
Ralph Paolcne slices off tackle for five yards before being stopped by Green Wave. 
ucvM^^i:t^ii-^^m\
^Mm^mmm^M^-^^^i?^^ 
•L::i-*.-:L2>-'
-j.^ ^ ^ >t At.-:tciA.' 
iii-iM&5A;->fe;.-.;.ia^iis, i^V5r^Umiiisi.Xiiii;«: 
.^^-__.,^-, i j:_t^'^t :i -j.(-.i^rj-'- C-:^ *J-tLi'Kix_£^]&2^ •'A^..-^i*^-:-aT'j;i^ n"^fT^i*?ft'r^-i<iTr?^r.:^>^»'.'>Tii ifr 
DIXIE INVASION! 
Spirited Seniors are full of enthusiasm as the special train hurtles southward. 
Over  the  centuries  many  have  been  
awed by the yearly flight southward  for  
lush  Gulf  Stream  climes of drove upon  
drove of Canadian geese.  Howevei-, this  
year  as  in  every  year,  there  was  an  
equally  awe-inspiring  migration  from  
Notre  Dame, but  one which did not  re­ 
ceive the glory  of  the goose.  The  stu­ 
dent trip.  
This  year's  hegira  was  to  New  Or­ 
leans, Deauville on the Delta, where the  
toppling of Tulane and the city's Ci-eole  
charm made for  a  memorable week end.  
The  move, made  in  the  native  element  
of /«)i(".s fdmiUaris,  the day coach, also  
will  go down  in history.  However,  the  
geese get to stay longer.  
Wide  and brightly lighted Canal Street  
war. waiting to welcome the 336 trippers.  

Dixie-bound men (above left) play bridge and sightsee. After the 21-hour trip the rooters arrive at the N'Orleans station (above right). Some of the ND spirit is transplanted to the Crescent City (below left) over the weekend. Hushed, but happy, men return. 
f^'^h 
N. 

Indiana Surprises Irisli 20-7 
Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 21.—A victory-starved crowd of 34,000 Indiana parti­sans went crazy in the packed confines of Memorial Stadium this afternoon, as Clyde Smith's not-so-humble Hoosiers rose up and smacked down the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, 20-7. It was the first Indiana \nctory in the sei'ies since 3906. 
From early in the first quarter, the Hoosiei-s left little doubt that they in­tended to win this game. Van Ooyen kicked off for Indiana, and Landry of Notre Dame carried to the Irish 33. In three plays the hard-charging Indiana line pushed the Notre Darners back to the 31. Then Bob Williams kicked. Hoosier Gedman took the ball on his own 20-yard line, cut to the left and started down the sideline. Vicious Indiana block­ing cleared a lane for him, and he made it all the way to the Notre Dame 19. 
For a short time it looked as if the Irish would stiffen and hold. Three plays gained only five yards. Lou D'Achille, a stumpy will-o'-the-wisp who baffled the Noti'e Dame line all day with his elusive pass-on-the-run method of play, was knocked down back on the 24 yard mark­er. However, an off-side penalty against the Irish gave the Hoosiers another chance, with fourth and a half-yard to go on the Irish 11 yai'd line. Again Gedman was a key man in the Hoosier success story. He picked up two yards to the Irish nine for a first down. First 
Jack Bush and Bob Kelly collaborate to 
By BILL RILEY, '52 

and goal. Gedman cracked right tackle for one yard. Then D'Achille faked to Eobertson hitting the middle, faded and rifled a pass to Luft for a touchdown. D'Achille failed to convert and Indiana led, 6-0. 
The next time the Hoosiers got the ball, they started another touchdown drive. This time it was South Bend's Bobby Robertson who combined with D'Achille made the Hoosiers roll down-field. Two Robertson runs gained two first downs for the Hoosiers after other backs failed to make the necessary dis­tance. Then D'Achille, who had brought Indiana from their own 20 to the Irish 40 in six plays, faded to pass. 
It was a typical D'Achille pass play. With the Notre Dame defensive backfield uncertain whether he Avas going to pass or run, Lou would stop, plant his feet and flip a jjass to an uncovered receiver. This time it was Gedman, and he went all the way to the Irish 26. 
Then Gedman went for six to the 20. T'ussie gained one through the middle. Again D'Achille, who was a Beaver Falls, Pa., high school teammate of Irish end Jim Mutscheller, passed. Robertson took the heave to the Irish 1-5 for a first-and­
 down 'Hoosier back as other Irish move in. 
ten. In two carries the South Bend speedster, who never looked greater than he did today, Avas over. This time D'Achille split the posts, and the score was Indiana, 13; Notre Dame, 0. 

The second half started out as if they were showing movies of the opening of the game. On the second play the Hoosiers scored. Vince Meschievitz kicked off to Robertson who caught the ball on the ten and carried it to the Indiana 17. Then on a quick-opening straight over-guard play, Robertson churned through the middle of the line, veered to his right when he got into the secondary, aimed for the sidelines, and outraced all Irish defenders, going 83 yards for a touch­down. D'Achille converted, and the Hoosiers had a big 20 point lead. 
Immediately after this spectacular running performance on the part of Bob­by Robertson the Irish fought back. Pe­titbon fumbled on the first series of downs after the kick-off, but the Notre Dame line smothered D'Achille for two huge losses as he tried to pass. After Robertson kicked into the end zone, No­tre Dame began to function. 
Williams passed to Gander for 19 yards to the 39, but was hurt on the 
CHARLES BARTLETT 
Chicago Tribune 

And then, kiddies, on the 4th Saturday of the daflFy 1950 football season Indiana's Hoosiers reared back and beat the mighty Notre Dames. There was no fooling about it either. The score was 20-7. 
play. John Mazur replaced him. Mazur proved right then his ability in a tight spot. Calling a screen pass, John hit Del Gander, who rambled to the Hoosier 39 for a fii-st down. Then Mazur threw an orthodox heave to Jim Mutscheller on the Indiana 25; Mutscheller caught the ball on the dead run and picked up seven more yards before he was pulled down. It was Notre Dame's ball first and ten on the Hoosier 18. 
Gander picked up four. Mazur's pass, intended for Gander, was incomplete. Gander moved into the middle of the line for six—or almost. Williams came back in, ran a quarterback sneak into the center for one and a first-and-ten. Then Gander hit the middle of the line again, this time for eight yai-ds and a touchdown. Joe Caprara converted to make the score 20-7. 

Football 

4k'^ 
Quarterback Mazur spots his target and gets set to pass from behind his own goal line as teammates block Spartan tacklers. 
!^partans Win 36-33 ThriUer 
South Bend, Ind., Oct. 28.—Striving as it has never done before to live up to the accolade "Fighting Iiish," a heroic but undermanned Notre Dame team suc­cumbed before an overpowering Michi­gan State eleven. The final score showed a 36-33 Spartan victoiy, but this difference would have been as meaning­less as previous advantages proved to be, had the length of the game either been abbreviated or extended. A bipar­tisan crowd of 57,886 saw as close and as hard fought a game as has ever graced the local gridiron. 
Brought to fever pitch by three days of incessant cheering, begging, and pleading from the student body the Ii-ish opened the scoring with a 19-yard pass from John Mazur to Jim Mutscheller. The Gridiron Goliath from Michigan re­fused to be pestered by this impudent tally, and immediately threatened to turn the game into a rout with three touchdowns of its o^vn. Runs of 15 and seven yards by Vince Pisano and Sonny Grandelius and two exti-a points by Bob Carey put the Spai-tans ahead, 14-6. 
The Notre Dame offense was hurled back to its one-yard line after receiving the kickoff, and on fourth do\\Ti a Wil­liams punt was blocked in the end zone. The ball scooted across the field parallel to the goal line before Doug Weaver pounced upon it to give the Greenies a two-touchdo^vn advantage. The Irish quickly recovered as John Petitbon cli­maxed an 85-yard drive with a five-yard 
Review 
By JACK ECONOMOU, '52 

plunge. Thus, with less than 16 min­utes having expired, 33 points had been tallied as the teams played themselves into exhaustion. The rest of the second period was scoreless as State defended its 20-13 lead. 
Shortly after the start of the second half, the game's deciding points were to be scored. Bob Carey, standout Spar­tan end, kicked a 39-yard field goal at a difficult angle. Revitalized and spurred on by the never-ending pleas of its fans, the Irish roared back for two tallies which put them into the lead. Williams and Mutscheller collaborated for both scores and a 26-23 Notre Dame advan­tage. 
This lead was also short-lived, as the Spartans scored two touchdowns of their own to complete their scoring. Long drives were climaxed by short plunges by Grandelius and Don McAuliffe to give the Michiganders a 10-point lead. With minutes left John Mazur hit Jerry Marchand for a touchdoAvn which again rekindled Irish hopes. Father Time put a damper on any hope of a quick ND tally, however, as the game ended with a Spartan victory. 
In every other respect, morally, sta­tistically, and courageously, it was a Notre Dame victory. State's 341 yards total oifense was dwarfed by the Irish count of 526. John Petitbon stole indi­vidual honors from Grandelius and Pisano as he scooted 1.71 yards in 10 tries before being carried off the field in a state of complete exhaustion. 
Had the Irish won, however, the vic­tory would have been a students' tri­umph. Seldom has a student body roused itself and its team to such a high psy­chological pitch. Early in the week spontaneous banners, leaflets, and pos­ters proclaimed trouble for Michigan State. Friday was a day of incessant cheering as Notre Dame men flocked around the team dressing room in the afternoon, and transformed night into day with a huge torchlight procession that evening. After an outdoor pep ral­ly, climaxed by a huge bonfire, hundreds of students marched downtown to con­tinue its appeal for victory on the streets of South Bend. 
A casual observer in Northern Indi­ana on that Saturday afternoon would have sworn that the thimder was being shaken down from the skies. For three solid hours the cheers, appeals, and clamour filled the huge bowl as the Irish squad, seemingly crushed by the Spar­tan machine, was revived from defeat by the i-oars of the crowd. As the final gun went off, the student body paid hom­age to its heroic team by cheering at high pitch for five minutes. Then the men of Notre Dame filed out chanting "Go Irish—Beat Navy." 
: -19 

Wet Navy Sinks 
By JACK VARLEY, '52 
Bakke, Groom shake hands after game. 
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 4.—The Fight­ing Irish of Notre Dame found the Middies of Navy and the mud of Mu­nicipal Stadium rough competition as they were forced to come from behind twice to squeeze a 19-10 victory out of Coach Eddie Erdelatz's valiant Midship­man eleven. A crowd of 71,074, shivei*­ing from the icy blasts of rain and snow fi'om nearby Lake Erie, watched as the running of fullback Jack Landry and the passing of quarterback Bob Williams spelled the difference between the two 
teams. Navy drew first blood on a pass intei­ception early in the second quarter. On the second play of the second quarteu 
Assistant 

guard Paul Burns recovered a Navy fumble on the Irish six. But two plays later a Williams pass was intercepted by Tar halfback Bill Powers on the 20 from which he returned it to the three. Powers picked up two yards in two attempts and then quarterback Bob Zastrow piled over the center for the remaining yard and the score. Fullback Eoger Drew's con­version attempt was good and the Mid­dies led, 7-0. 
Late in the same quarter, halfback Dave Flood intercepted a Zastrow pass on the Irish 36. Then, Landry exploded through the center of the Middle line and wasn't stopped until he was foi'ced out of bounds on the Tar ten-yard line. Halfback Jerry Marchand and Landry both knocked at Navy's forward wall, but couldn't find an opening so Williams tried a pass to end Chester Ostrowski which was good for five yards. On the next plaj/ Williams passed to halfback Bill Gay in the end zone for the touch­down. Fullback Joe Caprara kicked the extra point and the half ended in a 7-7 deadlock. 
The second half opened with Drew kicking off for Navy. Notre Dame took the ball on its OWTI 20, but could not move it any farther than the 26. Wil­liams got off a low kick that Powers took on the Na\'y 35 and returned to the 
43. Then Powers and Halfback Frank Hauff combined to drive to the Tars' 48. Zastrow passed to Powers for 19 yards and a first down on the Notre Dams 33. Another run by Powers and an offside 
Spo7-ts Editor 
penalty against the Irish placed the ball on the 24. Hauff picked up another first do\\Ti on the 14. Three plays later Zas­trow's pass from the 12 was knocked down and Drew came in to attempt a field goal. Kicking from the 19, his at­tempt was good and the Middies again went into the lead, this time, 10-7. 

Navy kicked ofi". Flood caught the ball on the five and returned it to the 24. Landry carried the ball three times and picked up 12 yards and a first down on the Ii-ish 36. Two plays later Williams tossed to end Jim Mutscheller for an­other first doAvn and Fi'ank Leahy's lads were on the move. Landry, halfback Murray Johnson, and halfback Dick Cot­ter combined to drive to the Tars' 30. Williams passed to Ostrowski for seven yards. Johnson lost two, but Landry picked up these two and 12 more two plays later to place the ball on the 11. Williams tossed a pass to Osti-owski who caught it on the five, and then another one for the score. Caprara's boot was bad, but the Irish were once again out in front. 
Early in the last quarter Notre Dame put the game on ice when Groom bolted through the line to block Quarterback Bob Cameron's punt. Wiethman recov­ered for the Ii-ish on the Middle 17. Landry carried the ball for nine yards^ three yards and then bolted through the center for the remaining five yards and the score. Again Caprara missed the conversion to make the final score read Notre Dame 19, Navy 10. 
Irish converge on Hauff (22) as he reaches for Zastrow pass. Alert Dave Flood (32) breaks up Navy pass in Irish end zone. 
F ootbalI 

John Petitbon fights Panthers for ball. Reynolds of Pitt gets good blocking as he roars through a hole 
Pitt Loses 18-7 Air Battle 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 11.—This aft­ernoon, in the final home appearance of the year, the Irish terrier handily tamed the Pittsburgh panther for an 18-7 vic­tory in chilly, snow-swept Notre Dame Stadium. 
A capacity homecoming crowd of 56,966 looked on as the Notre Dame crew combined air power with ground strength to down the stubborn Pennsyl­vanians. Midway through the first half Bob Williams gunned two scoring passes to give the Irish a 12-0 edge at inter­mission. And, when Pitt rallied late in the third period with a TD" aerial to pull within five points of a tie, Notre Dame launched her longest drive of the day to ice the game on Jack Landry's line plunge. 
The game produced a plentiful supply of aerials as the two teams made a total of 47 pass attempts. By connecting on 13 out of 21 attempted passes, All-Amer­ican Bob Williams smashed another all-time Notre Dame record by raising his collegiate completion total to 172, thus eclipsing the old mark of 169 set by Angelo Bertelli. Pittsburgh tried only a half dozen passes in the initial half; but, when stymied on the ground by the Irish defensive line—^^vhich allowed a mere 20 yards for the entire game, the true-armed Bob Bestwick went aloft to com­plete 16 out of 19 post-intermission thrusts for 212 yards and a touchdown. 
Neither team could get a sustained 
drive under way until near the end of 
the opening period. After Notre Dame 
took over a Pitt punt on her o^vn 30­
By FRAN MEANEY, '54 

yard line, Williams sneaked for seven yards and followed with a flip to left end Ostrowski for a first down on the 48. Petitbon sliced off left tackle into Panther territory, and on the next play caught a Williams pass for 16 yards more. Slanting through left guard, Dick Cotter moved seven yards to the Pitt 25. Landry gained the 20 on two line smashes. A Williams-Cotter pass and a yard loss by Landry put the ball on the 
15. Williams faded and went for the distance, but Bill Eeynolds leaped in front of Petitbon at the last moment to bat the ball away. Notre Dame was not to be denied, however, and a fourth down bullet found Mutscheller on the two, from where he bulled across the last stripe. 
On the first play from scrimmage after the ensuing kickoff, Pitt fumbled and Bill Gay recovered for Notre Dame on the Panther 38. The 26 was reached in six plays. Then Landry snared a Williams toss in the deep left flat for 10 yards and a first down. The AU-Amer­ican quarterback threw again following an Irish offside penalty and hit Ostrow­ski on the 12. Wasting no time, Wil­liams pitched to Petitbon in the right corner of the end zone for the tally. 
Meanwhile, the Panthers were not 
standing idly by. Twice in the second 
period they roared deep into Irish terri­
tory, biit a penalty nullified a scoring 
pass and Groom & Co. halted the second 
drive on the five. 
Eight plays were all the Panthers needed when they finally registered, their lone score in the third period on a 70­yard march. Sparked by Bestwick passes of 10, 8 and 22 yards. Coach Len Casa­nova's boys reached the ND 28. Bob Kelly tackled fullback Capp for a loss, but a pass-lateral from Bestwick to War­riner to. Sichko netted 15 yards. Right end Nick De Eosa cut over the middle and slid to his knees in the end zone, but still managed to gather, in Best­wick's lob for the TD. The PAT at­tempt was wide but an Irish offside gave Nick Bolkovac another chance which he made good. 
Notre Dame bounced back with her best effort of the day. Dick Cotter, the game's leading ground gainer, sped from the ND 19 behind a double flanker to the right for 11 yards. Four downs and a 15-yard Irish penalty later, the ball rested on the 35. With second and 18, a William3-03tr.owski quickie clicked for eight yards as the third frame ended. Again the Chicago Junior latched onto a Williams heave, this time to the Pitt 43 for a first down. Notre Dame pushed to the 25 and then Landry boomed through left tackle for 22 yards to the three. Two plays later Landry climaxed the 81-yard offensive by crashing through center for the final Irish six-pointer. Ed "UTielan missed the PAT as had Joe Caprara the earlier attempts. 
Refusing to fold, Pitt filled the air with passes. On the last play of the game, Bestwick threw, from the ND 49 to Warriner, who went all the way to the seven before Tom Carter hauled him down. 
Review 
r Irish Eke Out a Tie 
By JACK POWERS, '52 
Neivs 

Iowa City, la., Nov. 18.—Once again this year the Fighting Irish had to come from behind, this time to tie the Iowa Hawkeyes, 14-14. Notre Dame trailed 14-0 at the end of the first quarter after Iowa intercepted two of Bob Williams' passes and turned them into touchdowns. 
The Irish made certain of at least a .500 mark for the season this afternoon, with four wins and three defeats already in the book. The game also marked the first tie in the nine-game series with Iowa. Notre Dame has taken the last five. It was the first tie game the Irish have played since 1948, Avhen they tied Southern California 14-14 in the last minute of play. 
The diiFerence between deadlock and defeat today was Sophomore Vince Meschievitz who kicked both exti-a points. It was the first time this year that the Chicago kick-off artist was called uj^on to deliver the PAT. Meschievitz, a 19­year-old end, was heralded earlier as a gi-eat line pi'ospect. He broke into the big time today with two perfect kicks that saved the game. 
First of the Hawkeye breaks came early in the first period when Bob Lage intercepted a deflected Williams pass on the Notre Dame 23-yard line. Iowa gained a first down in four plays and then halfback Don Commack took the ball for 13 yards and a touchdov\Ti with less than three minutes of the game 
Editor 
gone. Fullback Eeichardt made the 
conversion. 
A few minutes later Iowa stopped a 
Notre Dame drive with another inter­
ception. Guard Austin Turner grabbed 
a Williams pass on the ND 42 and 
brought it to the 20. Irish defensive star 
John Helwig momentarily halted this 
threat when he intercepted Glenn 
Drahn's short pass on the 16. But 
again, on the third do^\^l, the Hawkeyes 
grabbed another Williams pass. Guard 
Joe Paulsen took this one and was pulled 
down on the Notre Dame 27-yard line. 
Six plays later halfback Charlie Wilson 
made a fine catch of a Drahn pass and 
went ten yai-ds for the second score. 
Bill Eeichardt again converted, making 
it 14-0. 
In the second quarter, John Mazur 
took over at quarterback for the Irish 
and sparked them on a 63-yard, seven-
play touchdown drive. Jack Landry set 
up tliis first ND score with a 43-yard 
run to the Iowa 20. The next thi-ee 
downs netted the Irish only three yards, 
but on the fourth Mazur passed to Petit­
bon on the six for a first do\vn. 
Petitbon on the next play went over 
left tackle to the thi'ee, and then went 
wide ax'ound right end to score. Mes­
chievitz then kicked his first extra point. 
The score stood that way at half-time, 
14-7. 
Late in the period, Notre Dame took 
Vince Meschievitz kicks the fourteenth point to save the Irish from another defeat. 
Hawkeye chilis Barrett with stifF arm. 
the ball on their own 20 and went 80 yards for the tying TD in 20 plays. The Irish moved to the midfield' stripe on two Williams passes to Petitbon and Os­trowski. Another throw to John Petit­bon was good for 12 yards. On four 
CHICAGO DAILY NEWS, Nov. 19 
Hoivard Roberts 

Notre Dame spotted an alert Iowa foot­ball team two touchdowns in the first quar­ter, but refused to concede defeat, surging back to earn a 14-14 tie in a furiously fought game before 52,863 in Iowa stadium. 
rushing plays Landry and Petitbon moved the ball to the 17, and Williams jump-passed to Chet Ostrowski on the 11. 
Petitbon and Landry then carried the ball to the one on three plays. The score came when Williams went over on a quarterback ' sneak. Meschievitz con­verted to tie the score at 14-14 and that's how it stayed. 
In the fourth quartei-, both defenses tightened up. The game ended with Iowa in possession just over the 50-yard line in Notre Dame territory. Eather than chance an interception, the Hawkeyes settled for a tie, letting the clock run out. The Irish received a scare near the end of the game when Schwarzengruber tackled Billy Barrett on the one-yai'd line and drove him into the end zone. The ball was ruled dead on the one, however, and Williams punted on the next play. 
Notre Dame led in rushing with 216 yards gained to the Hawkeyes' 119. The Irish completed nine passes out of 20; Iowa completed four out of 17 at­tempted. The Irish were penalized 77 yards, the Hawkeyes, 25. 

22 Football 
"' ''-SifirfitiiriiiiifiiMnitfiiriiriSB'iiiiliifi^^^^ 

isesmm^>mm»ii^i^.. 
Trojans Cop Rough Battle, 9-7 
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 2. — Notre Dame's 1950 football squad closed out a disastrous season here today by falling before the battling Trojans of Southern California, 9-7. The loss was the fourth of the campaign for the Irish, making them the fourth team in 62 years of Irish football to lose that many games in a single season. 
Head Coach Frank Leahy was con­fined to his bed with the flu in his Long Beach, Ind., home and Assistant Coach Bernie Crimmins took charge of the team in his absence. But it's doubtful if the presence of the great Notre Dame mentor*, could have helped his team to­day. Notre Dame's thin line was hit hard by injuries as the game progressed. Halfback John Petitbon was carried \in-conscious from the field eai'ly in the sec­ond period after catching a pass from Williams to set up the lone Irish touch­down. Before the game was over, he was followed to the sidelines by Dave Flood, Bill Barrett, Bill Whiteside, Mur­ray Johnson, Fred Wallner, Bill Flynn, Jerry Groom and Bob Williams. With their attack shot to pieces, the Irish were imable to muster any appreciable show of offensive sti'ength in the second half. 
In the statistics battle, the visitors led all the way. Southern Cal managed to register one first do\vn against the Irish's 13. Notre Dame led in rushing, 145 to 70, and in passing, 104 to 4. Even in penalties the Irish were ahead, losing 110 yards for rules infractions to SC's 51. 
But today, as in most of the games this season, the luck of the Irish deserted 
By JACK MEANEY, '52 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame. A runback of a kickoff, the first time that's been done to the Irish in 14 years, gave the Trojans their first touchdo^\Ti. The winning two points came as the result of a blocked kick which rolled over the goal line and out of the end zone for a safety. 
The Ix'ish scored their touchdown on a 54-yard march early in the second pe­riod. John Petitbon started it by rip­ping off ten yards from his own 46 to the Trojans' 44. A Williams to Barrett pass picked up five more after which Barrett plunged for three to the 36. In three smashes, Landry carried all the way to the SC 22. Williams went for a first down on a quarterback sneak to the 19. After Barrett lost a yard, Wil­liams pitched to Petitbon racing do\\'n the sidelines and the fleet Irish back was hit with a savage tackle on the one, knocking him unconscious and putting him out of the game for the rest of the day. On the next play, Williams sneaked over for the touchdown. Vince Meschie­vitz kicked the extra point and it was 7-0, Notre Dame. 
Southern Cal's touchdo\\Ti came as easy as Notre Dame's came hard. Meschievitz kicked off for the Irish but his first boot went out of bounds. His second try went sti"aight down the mid­dle to Jim Seai-s on the six-yard line. 
Sears, one of a flock of swift Trojan backs, cut up the center of the field, veered to his left at the 15 and bolted through a pocket in the Irish defense. After that it was a race down the side­lines with none of the Green Shirts able to stop the 94-yard touchdown run. Frank Giffoi-d converted to tie the score at 7-7. 
Southern Cal's winning two points came in the third period. The battered Irish offensive had been stopped by the charging' Cal line consistently when Bob Williams was forced to punt from deep in his own territory. Guard Paul Mc-Murtiy ci-ashed through, the Irish de­fense to block Williams' kick, the baU bouncing off his chest and rolling out of the field of play behind the ND goal. The safety made the score 9-7 and that was all the men of Troy needed. 
After that, the Irish had a hard time getting out of their own territory. They got a break with four minutes left when a poor punt gave them possession on the Trojan 36. Plunges by Landry and a pass interference put the ball on the" 21, but the Trojans roared up and held the Irish for three downs. With fourth down coming up and ten to go for a first down, the Irish elected to try for a field goal. Vince Meschievitz kicked from the 26 but it wasn't even close. That was the last chance for the Irish. 
For Notx'e Dame, Capt. Jerry Gi'oom ended his playing career as did Bob Williams and 13 other Irish Seniors. The victoiy for the Trojans was their seventh in the series, as against 13 losses, and their first over the Irish since 1939. 
John Petitbon goes for ten yards as the Irish spring a surprise ag ainst Trojans by shifting from the T into the old Notre Dame box. 
K>^ 
• :.k.A 

.u 
y%'S:\ ''-.m 
~Ji«^-^^.«i^.-^;S>_:S^i'j»-?j;:;:i-Ssii;.:i„.;^^ 
'-*-lL»ij"^i/.i'::ii'.>.A.ir-i.i.\i;c, J;?.^.Ui..,^. :;:.•-. 
1^ 
.•^B»-«- 1^ 
% 
,«•
'•s 
e«*.^ 
m^f^i^--^^' 
JvT 
^ 

I I) 
iJ I DEAD 
-«^' 
/ 

K^^^^3^ter-\ 
r 
"C^RANK LEAHY, head coach of the Irish, was born in 
O'Neill, Neb.. Aui?. 27, li)OS, but sj)ent most of his 
youth in Winner, S. IX As a Junior he played guard on 
ND's undefeated national cham])ionship team of 1929. 
After graduation in ]931 Frank spent the next eight yeai-s as line coach at Georgetown, Michigan State and Fordham. He went to Boston College as head coach in 1939 and won 2(1 of 22 games. When Elmer Layden re­signed in 1941, Frank returned to Notre Dame a.- head coach. 
His first team at Notre Dame won eight games and tied one and Leahy was named Coach of the Yeax-. In the next two years Notre Dame won 16 games, tied two and lost three; they were National Champions in 1943. 
In 1944 Frank entered the Nav.v and spent 19 months as a recreational officer with the Pacific Submarine Com­mand. He was discharged Nov. 1.5, 1945 with tlie i-ank of lieutenant and returned to ND in January of 1946. 
Ill the next four years the Irish did not lose a game, although they were tied twice. They won three National Championships. Seven Irish teams under Leahy won 60 games, tied five and lost three, en.ioying five undefeated seasons. Frank rates the 1949 team as the best he has ever coached. Although this year's team has suffered as many losses as the seven previous teams, Fi-ank consid­ei-s his greatest thrill as a coach "the display of loyalty by the student body during the 1950 season." 
As he finishes his 20lh year of coaching Frank Leahy's plans are to remain at Notre Dame, "as long as I can honestly feel that I am i-endering Notre Dame a helpful service. I owe Notre Dame a debt of gratitude that could never be repaid." 
Frank married Florence Reilly of Brooklyn, N. Y., July 4, 1935, and they have four boys and two girls; a seventh child is expected next Spring. 
"PDWARJ) WALTER KRAUSE was born in Chicago, 
February 2, 1913. While he was attending de LaSallo high school he was nick-named "Moose" by his coach, Norman Barry, because, "I was the biggest and .-^lowest man on the squad." The name stuck and, though many Notre Dame Ail-Americans have since been called it. Krause was the original ''iMoose." 
While at Notre Dame he received AIl-American and All-Midwest football honors in 1931, '32, and '33. In bas­ketball, too, he was All-American for three years, setting-school records for scoring in a single game, in a single season and in a three-season ])eriod. He also won a monogram in track. Because of his accoini)lishments he was ])resented with a trojihy b.v the student body; he Is the only Notre Dame player to be so honored. 
After graduation ho coached for five years at St. Mary's College, Yvinona, Minn., before going to Holy Cross as line coach. In 1942 he returned to Notre Dame as line coach and, when George Keogan died that winter, Ed also took over the coaching of basketball. 
During the war he spent two years in the Marines, serving in the Philijipines and the Solomons. He returned to Notre Dame in 1946 as Leahy's assistant. His greatest thrill as a coach came that year when Leahy became ill and "Moose" coached the team to a victory over Southern California, clinching national honors. He also resumed his duties as basketball coach and Assistant Director of Athletics. In 1949 he became Director. 
His plans for the future are to remain at Notre Dame as Athletic Director and coach the basketball team to a "great year." He says, "We have a young team and one that may be a surprise to all our opponents." 
He was married August 27, 1938 to Elizabeth Linden of Chicago and they have three children: Eddie, Jr., 10; Maiy, 5; and Philip, 6 months. 
Football 
!-::;jvi.,li-.<i'.'j;: •«;^!.--i-ij^ilri 

-"-• '•*-•'•--«-—^*;.V.3-1-' 'i/ ^ '^v ^ 
Notre Dame's Coaching Staff 
Call the roll. Crimmins, Pruze, Eai-ley, McArdle, McBride and Ziemba. Little-known, ])racticaly unknown names, outside Notre Hame. Yet these men are all-important factors in the production of a representative Notre Iiame team. 
Take Bernie Crimmins. Bernie's fi-om Louisville, Ky., iilayed football at Notre Dame in l!).3i), 1940 at fullback, a very yood one. In the fall of 1941 Bernie Crimmin.s was switched to guard. The result is a tribute to the wisdom and spirit of both Leahy and Crimmins. Leahy's team went undefeated, Crim­mins gained ail-American honors at a ])osition with which he was completely unfamiliar. 
Crimmins is back with the backfield now, but as a coach. Affable, tall^ light-haired, Bernie is as good a public rela­tions man on the road as he is a Coach on Cartier Field. He's the man in the press box on Saturdays, picking holes in op})onent's defenses, relaying tip-oifs to the bench. It's an impoi-tant job, and Bernie Crimmins does it well. 
Smilin' John Druze is a friendly tall rugged guy who first met Frank Leahy when the latter was coaching the lino at Fordham. Johnny was Captain of the far-famed "Seven Blocks of Granite", moulded by Leahy for Jim Ci'owley. John knows end-play, and operates in the Leahy system under twin roles of diagnostician and teacher. Constantly on the alert for errors in execution, when he finds one, John turns into a patient, though firm [)edant of wing play. 
If there's any doubts of John's ability as a developer of ends, take a look at the record. Leon Hart^ Bill Wightkin. Martin, Zilly, these are known around and about as jiretty fair end.-. 
One of the West Virginia Earleys, blond-haired Bill, belonus to a family that has turned out good football players almost like Mr. and Mrs. DiMaggio bred fine baseballers. Fred, a younger bro­ther, was an extra-point sj)ecialist during "48, '46, and '47. They say that a still younger Earley is burning up the league around Parkei-sburg. 
Bill is a backfield coach. Run down the list of backs who have worn the Irish blue and gold since 194(5—it's a galaxy of All-Americans—let's just 
name a couple—Lujack, Sitko, Williams, 
and Panelli. Bill has done a good job. 
And then there's Joe McArdle. Short, auburn-topjied, tough. Coach Joe likes to train tough, mean g'ads. Also trained by Leahy at Fordham Joe took a crack at 'ihe business world before settling into coaching. Like every other member of the staft", he saw service in the last war. In every sense of the word. IMac doesn't let the niceties of eticiuette interfere with the coaching of guards. 
Bob McBride is a tough tackle coach, v.'ho played hi.- last year of football for Frank Leahy in 1946, came back to Notre l)ame after a brief stint as mentor at Mt. Carmel in Chicago. He likes to mix it with the big Irish tackles, and goes far to prove statement that tackles are the smartest men on a foot­ball team. 
This has been a tough year for AVally Ziemba. The big (6',6") center coach is another who likes to do his coaching by example. Unfortunately Wally has been unable to take on much coaching this fall, due to illness. He should be back next year.—Bill Riley. '52 
Coach Leahy's assistant coaches, "the best in the nation," are John Druze, Bill Earley, Bob McBride, Bernie Crimmins, Joe McArdle. 
c*^ 

ri> 
—-f^ %***^ 
lf<. 
•- ---.v^e.v^jB-.wi^nc-j;';'': 

Caipidvn 
Jerry Groom 

JEROME P. GROOM . . .The hard-hit­ting captain of the Fighting Irish and candidate for AU-American didn't plan on coming to ND until his Senior year in high school. Jerry had set his mind on going to Iowa U., but was so greatly impressed by the spirit of the ND team and the coaching staff that he decided ND was for him. "The luck of the Irish" shows again . . . contrary to a recently ventured opinion that the "T" formation is outmoded, Jerry believes that teams are now specializing on sound defenses against it. He points out that the two-platoon system is a mani­festation of this defense theory. . . . The Senior Commerce major who backs up the center of the Irish line so savagely, thinks that Helluin of Tulane was the best opposing player he came up against this year. . . . Grandelius and Robertson of MSC and Indiana respectively were the best backs Notre Dame faced this season. . . . Jerry who lives in Des Moines, la., is not particularly interested in playing pro ball upon his graduation in June. He would also pass-up a coach­ing career in order to take a position in the business world. However, he is lA in the draft .. . he has a great number of hobbies which range from hunting and fishing to reading western novels. . . . Jerry believes a great number of bad breaks hindered further Irish success this season. . . . "The spirit at the school is "terrific . . . the best I've seen in my four years out here," he says. "I thought I had seen everything Avhen the students greeted the team after the SMU game last year-, but this year's Purdue affair was the greatest I have ever seen." 
Zke 

Zeam 
^i 
Football 

VIRGIL J. BARDASH . . . Gary, Indiana . . . like many others, Virge lists his first game for Notre Dame as his most memorable athletic event .. . he is a Sophomore in the College of Commerce and plans to major in marketing. .. . in high school Virge, who plays tackle, fulfilled the lienman's dream when he caught a blocked pass and ran 54 yards for a touchdown . . . after graduation he would "like to play pro ball for a while and then go into some business, in marketing maybe." .. . his toughest game this year came against Tulane down in New Orleans . . . 
WILLIAM C. BARRETT . . . River Forest, 111. .. . a hard-running halfback. Bill was a victim of the injury jinx which hit the Irish this year and was forced to the sidelines for part of the season. He'll be making his bid for All-American honors next year .. . a mixture of coaching and business are his plans after graduation, and right now he"s a Commerce Junior majoring in Business Administration. . . . Bill lists scoring the winning touchdown against SMU last year as his biggest sports thrill, and names the Mustangs' Kyle Rote as the best player he has faced. 
JAMES J. BARTLETT . . . played ball under the tutelage of his dad while attending high school in his home town of Cincinnati, Ohio. . . . The Junior center enjoys playing bridge .. . he is majoring in Business Administration. . . . Jim doesn't wish to play pro ball after graduation, but hopes to go to law school .. . his most thrilling game occurred during his high school days when Hamilton tied Cincinnati Elder 6-6. . . . Jim believes that Helluin of Tulane is the best lineman he has faced . . . 
^^--J 

BYRON B. BOJI . . . Commerce Junior, majoring in Business Administration. . . . "I'm going to be a livestock farmer and raise pigs and cows after gradua­tion" . . . this from a Chicago native . . . duck-hunting and fishing are By's favorite hobbies . . . the opposition sees him in the linebacker's spot, and he prefers defense to offense because "You're more on your own" . . . Most effective formation against the Irish this year? "It's a toss-up between the T and single wing" . . . won a position on the High School All-America while' a Senior at .Austin High in Chicago . . . 
PAUL E. BURNS . . . from Athens, Pa., and a Junior in Commerce, Paul is a guard that likes to—and does—play offense and defense .. . his biggest ath­letic thrill: his pass interception in the Carolina game. . . . Paul picks this year's Tulane game as the toughest, thinks the single wing worked best against us .. . he added: "put something in about the student body—the way they're behind us. Win, lose, or draw, I'd rather play for Notre Dame" . . . 
R e V ten 29 
JOHN L. BUSH .. . a Junior from Davenport, la., Jack made his mark this year as a defensive halfback .. . he prefers playing defense; in fact, his reason: "I like to smash 'em." . . . Jack's a Philosophy Major and wants a job in ad­vertising when he graduates . . . most thrilling game for Jack was the Old Timers" clash last Spring . . . he's the middle man of three Irish Bush brothers, Mike played here in '44 and '45, roommate Joe is a Frosh tackle . . . 
JOSEPH A. CA^PRARA . . . fullback and extra point specialist. . . . Joe is a resident of Turde Creek, Pa., the same hometown as Leon Hart, last year's Heisman winner .. . a Physical Education major, Joe would like to "get a coaching job somewhere after graduation" .. . his biggest thrill was being accepted at Notre Dame. . . . Joe favors offensive rather than defensive play .. . he also considers the single wing formation to be the most effective against Notre Dame . . . 
RICHARD A. COTTER . . . .\ustin, Minn. . . . Dick is a philosophy major who thinks all his games for Notre Dame have been equally thrilling .. . he is a Senior now and plans to study law at ND after graduation . . . this halfback would rather play offense than defense .. . in his spare time he likes to pursue his hobby of reading the Greek classics .. . he lists Michigan State's single wing as the best offense used against ND, and considers Grandelius the best back he has faced . . . one of his ambitions after graduation is to get fat and philosophize . . . 
JAMES F. DUNLAY . . . Jim played a lot of tackle this year and is only a Sophomore, with two big years of football ahead of him .. . he is taking Mechanical Engineering, and plans to practice his profession in Pittsburgh, Pa., after graduation from Notre Dame .. . a product of Oakmont, Pa. . . . this year's North Carolina game, "My first game for ND," was Jim's choice of his most thrilling game, and his biggest single thrill in sports was starting the same game . . . main hobby? "Collecting classical records" . . . 
FRJVNK B. EPSTEIN . . . Chicago, 111. . . . though a guard on this year's team, this Sophomore played halfback his Senior year in high school. . . . Fx-ank says, "I guess my most thrilling game came in high school against Schurz, when I caught a pass, and ran for a touchdown. 'We won that game 13-0 .. . he is in Commexxe with Business Administration as his major, but he would like to coach when finished with college. . . . Frank thinks that one of the greatest thrills that happened to him was making Notre Dame's team . . . in his opinion the single wing has been most effective against ND this year . . . 
30 Football 
CHARLES FEIGL .. . is a Physical Education major in his Senior year. He plans to coach after graduation .. . a Chicago lad. Chuck especially remem­bers the Tilden-Calumet high school game when he intercepted a pass and scored for Tilden . . . his hobbies are reading and sports, with swimming and baseball as the top two .. . in Chuck's opinion, the most effective formations against Notre Dame this year have been the seven-man line defensively and offensively, the single wing, "because we're not used to seeing it as much as the T'" ... he plays center . . . 
DAVID M. FLOOD . . . this halfback from Pittsburgh, Pa., considers playing for Coach Frank Leahy his biggest thrill at Notre Dame .. . a Junior majoring in Physical Education, Dave is planning to play pro ball after graduation and then get a coaching job .. . he is noted for his speed and likes to play both offense and defense . . . tops among his football memories is catching the opening kickoff for this year's Na\y game .. . his toughest game was against Michigan State .. . he considers the single wing as having been most effective against Notre Dame this year . . . 
\VILLIAM J. FLYNN . Bill switched to tackle this year after three years at end he is a Senior in the Mechanical Engineering course . . . collecting classical and semi-classical records is his hobby . . . the Gary, Ind., lineman hopes to go into coaching after graduation .. . he thinks MSC's single wing formation was the best against ND and their Grandelius the best back .. . he also believes Holdash of North Carolina the best opposing player. . . . Bill prefers to play defense and considers this year's Tulane game his toughest contest . . . 
FIDEL J. GANDER .. . a Chicago Junior, Del made a name for himself this season with his fine showing in the Indiana and Michigan State games .. . a Commerce major, he hopes to go into some kind of business after graduation . . . Del likes playing offense, has played both halfback and fullback .. . his biggest athletic thrill was just playing in an ND uniform, but he's especially proud of that winning TD against Tulane. . . . Del thinks the Irish coaching staff is tops, and commented "I really appreciate the student body's spirit" . . . 
WILLIAM T. GAY . . . Chicago, 111., Senior plans to play pro ball after graduation although he feels that the war will probably force him to alter his plans. .. . "I like offense and defense," he says, "but naturally a back likes ofl'ense better'' .. . his most thrilling game was the 1948 USC game. . . . Bill is a Business Ad major who believes that Kyle Rote is the best player he ever opposed . . . the most effective formation against ND he thinks has been the "T" .. . his toughest game was against SMU in 1949. 
Review 31 
JAMES H. HAMBY .. . a AValsh Hall Junior, Jim hails from Caruthcrsville, Mo., played center on the 1950 squad .. . he named two Michigan State boys as the best individual ND opponents: tackle Don Coleman and halfback Ev Grandelius . . . Jim stated that the most thrilling game he ever played in was the 1949 clash with Southern Methodist .. . for the toughest, though, he picks the 1950 Old Timers' game right here in Notre Dame Stadium .. . a Jour­nalism major, Jim isn't sure about his plans after graduation .. . he prefers playing defense, likes to n-ad in his spare time . . . 
JOHN F. HELWIG . . . Senior line-backer from Los Angeles, Calif., thinks that Art Weiner of North Carolina, is the best lineman he has ever faced . . . he likes reading mystery stories .. . as for plans after graduation he is "kind of indefinite, but I've already taken my physical for the Army." John is a Marketing major and believes his greatest thrill at ND has been playing on the ream. . . . John holds the ND record for the shot put with a throw of 54'4" indoors and 53'6" outdoors . . . John would rather play defense than offense .. . 
WILLIAM P. HIGGINS . . . another Chicago contribution to Irish football . . . Senior in the College of Arts and Letters, an English major. . . . Bill is going to enter Law school here after he graduates next Spring . . . next to playing his guard position, he lists reading as his favorite avocation. . . . Bill thinks that the single wing was the most effective formation against ND this year, and that the Michigan State game was the toughest game of the season ... 
^^^m 
MURRAY E. JOHNSON . . . stepping into a vacant halfback position in the dark days of this season, "Swede'" proved his worth as a top-notch ground-gainer .. . a Sophomore Commerce major, he'd like to play some pro ball and then go into business. . . . Murray says that Spring practice is rougher than 
• the regub.r season, but thinks the Michigan State battle was the year's tough­est game . . . Vince Pisano of MSC and Carolina's line-backer, Ir\' Holdash, get his nod as ND's toughest opponents .. . a citizen of Pittsburgh, Pa., Murray played high school ball for Gary's Horace Mann . . . 
FRANK A. JOHNSTON . . . Chicago man says "no pro ball for me: I'd like to go right into coaching*' .. . he got his biggest athletic thrill starting the Indiana game in place of the injured Paul Burns .. . he goes for pinochle in a big way and his Badin Hall residence is usually the scene of a hotly-contested game .. . the Junior guard is majoring in Physical Education. . . . Frank, who also answers to the name "Blacky," thinks the best opposing lineman was John Considine of Purdue .. . he believes the ND spirit is tops . . . 
Football 

RAYMOND JONARDI .. . a Senior who doesn't wish to play pro ball upon graduation is majoring in Mechanical Engineering. . . . Ray's favorite hobby is reading. . . . Dale Samuels of Purdue is the best back he faced and the Purdue game was the toughest game he was ever in. . . . Ray resides in Pleas­ant Hills, Pa. .. . his biggest athletic thrill was the first game he played for ND . . . he's hoping to get a job with an engineering firm after graduation . . . he'd rather play defense and thinks the "T" has been most effective against ND. 
ROBERT J. KAPISH . . . his most thrilling game was playing for Barberton when they defeated Massilon, 26-12, to win the Ohio high school state cham­pionship in 1947 .. . a Junior in Business Administration this year, he plans to enter the business field after leaving ND. . . . Bob prefers to play end on offense because he enjoys blocking .. . in his leisure time he likes to follow sports items and clippings .. . his biggest thrill at Notre Dame was getting into the Tulane game of 1949 .. . in his opinion the single wing has been the most effective offense against ND .. . 
ROBERT J. KELLY . . . Duluth, Minn. . . . Sophomore Bob says that his biggest thrill in sports is "Just being able to play for ND" .. . his most thrill­ing game was the Old Timers' Game last Spring, playing "against all those big wheels" . . . College of Commerce, Business Administration major, and plans to go into the furniture business after he leaves Notre Dame. . . . Irv Holdash of North Carolina and Ev Grandelius and Vince Pisano of Michigan State were the best players the Irish faced this year, according to Kelly . . . likes to golf and "putt around in my jalopy" in his spare time . . . 
JOHN W. LANDRY .. . is a Physical Education major .. . the Senior full­back from Rochester, N. Y., would like to play pro ball or coach after gradua­tion. . . . Jack received his biggest athletic thrill when he scored the winning touchdown against Northwestern in 1948 . . . Jerry Faske of Iowa is the toughest back he has faced while he considers Tom Novak of Nebraska the best opposing lineman. . . . Jack would rather play offense and says "I've always played mostly offense" . . . his favorite hobby is skiing . . . 
GERALD H. MARCHAND .. . of Baton Rouge, La. . . . likes to hunt and fish . . . the Sophomore halfback picks the MSC game as his most exciting and says his biggest thrill has been scoring his first touchdown against MSC . . . Gerry plans to do some coaching after he graduates from ND .. . a Physical Education major, he considers John Kerestes of Purdue the best opposing back he has faced .. . he thinks the "T" has been the toughest formation for ND to stop . . . Gerry thinks "offense is a lot more fun for a back" . . . 
Review 35 
JOHN E. MAZUR .. . a Badin Hall Junior, John's passing makes him look like a sure thing as another top ND quarterback .. . he names the Michigan State game as his biggest athletic thrill, thinks Spartan back Ev Grandelius was the best opposing player the Irish faced this year ... . a Phy Ed major, John is a product of Pl\-mouth, Pa., is undecided about the future . . . like most quarterbacks, he'd rather play offense. . . . John thinks the MSG tussle was the toughest he's been in and adds, "The team really appreciated the spirit after the Purdue game and before Michigan State" . . . 
>VILLLAM LEO McKILLIP . . . playing his last year of football in an Irish uniform, Leo says that just coming to Notre Dame was his biggest thrill and adds "The school spirit is really great" . . . he's majoring in Phy Ed and would like to coach after graduation . . . Leo comes from McCook, Neb.: likes to hunt when he gets the chance .. . he thinks this year's Tulane game was toughest . . . MSC's single wing formation is his choice as the best system used against ND . . . our best individual opponents, he says, were Kyle Rote of SMU and Ir\- Holdash of North Carolina . . . 
THOMAS MURPHY . . . this Sophomore tackle from Chicago, 111., consid­ers starting for Notre Dame against Michigan State as his biggest athletic thrill. . . . Tom is in A.B. and plans to major in economics and then study Law .. . he says he'd "like to play pro ball after graduation, if possible, and then go into Law" . . . his most thrilling game came in high school when his team lost to Fenwick 7-13. . . . Tom thinks that the best opposing back he saw this year was Grandelius from Michigan State, and he lists the single wing as the most effective offense against Notre Dame this season . . . 
JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER .. . no one has to go into fits of explanation about this Irish end whose pass-catching average speaks for itself .. . a Com­merce major, Jim comes from Beaver Falls, Pa., is undecided about his future career .. . he names last year's game with Southern Methodist the most thrilling game he's been in, but thinks that this year's battle with the Spartans was the toughest . . . surprisingly enough, Jim. would rather play defense . . . "the greatest part of Notre Dame's victories," he commented, "are the result of the school spirit" . . . 
CHESTER C. OSTROVVSKI . . . Chicago, 111. . . . usually seen streaking out from his end position to pull down a Bob Williams pass . . . Chet prefers of­fense to defense. "I like to get that ball" .. . he is a Junior History major. College of Arts and Letters .. . if he isn't drafted he'd like to play some pro football after graduation and then teach History. But modest Chet says, "You have to be plenty good to play pro ball these days, though" . . . considers Grandelius of Michigan State and Holdash of North Carolina the best players that the Irish faced this year .. . 
Football 

RALPH N. PAOLONE .•. . New Castle, Pa. .. . a Sophomore halfback, Ralph is in Commerce and intends to major in Business Administration . . . his most memorable game came in high school when his school played Farrel High from New Castle. Both were undefeated till then, and his team won 32-0 . . . as the best players he came up against, Ralph lists two high school stars, Rocko Cahio, Cornell's first string quarterback, and Ed Modzieleski, a tackle for Maryland this year .. . he thinks that "playing for Notre Dame is a great honor and something really worth working for" . . . 
JOHN E. PETITBON . . . already established as a defensive star, John came into his own as a ball-carrier this year . . . hails from New Orleans and spent the week before the North Carolina game convincing his teammates that all rebels are not enemies .. . a Foreign Marketing major in the College of Commerce, Petitbon is a Junior^ with one more big season of football ahead of him . . one of the few full-time players in the two-platoon system, he'd rather carr\' the ball than play defense .. . he names the Michigan State game as this vear's toughest . . . 
THOMAS SEAMAN . . . another Soph Commerce major. Torn is a 20-year­old guard .. . he comes from Canton, Ohio, and Lincoln High School .. . he captained Lincoln's football squad in his Senior year, was named to the Ohio .All-State team .. . he thinks the Tulane game was a tough one . . . Tom showed his stuff this year on defense, playing middle guard in the five-man line . . . undecided as of now about the future, he wants, though, to raise a family of ten kids . . . 
EUGENE F. SMITH . . . this Senior halfback likes to play baseball and cards .. . he calls LaCrosse, ^Vii., home . . . the single-wing as personified by MSC gave ND the most trouble he thinks. "They were a great ball club" . . . Gene believes that Joyce of Tulane and Grandelius of MSC were the best players he faced this year and that the Tulane contest was the toughest .. . as for the future. Gene plans to enter law school at AVisconsin University. . . . His most memorable ND experience was Father Brennan, Sr.'s, logic class . . . 
ROBERT TONEFF . . . Notre Dame's answer to the off-tackle smash. Big Bob is noted for the amount of time he spends in the opposition's backfield... he is a Junior majoring in Physical Education, and plans a coaching career "after a litde pro ball" . . . Bob comes from Barberton, Ohio, and collaborated with Bob Kapish to lead Barberton High to the state championship in 1947 .. . the 1949 SMU game rates as Bob's most thrilling game, but he says this year's Tulane game was the toughest he's ever played in . . . 
R e V i ery 
FREDERICK W. WALLNER . . . won his third monogram at guard this year . . . Fred says his biggest athletic thrill was beating SMU last year . . . calls Greenfield, Mass., home .. . an Arts and Letters Senior, majoring in education .. . he says that the Tulane game was the toughest this year, and lists Tulane's Jerome Helluin as the best lineman to face ND . . . one of Sorin's foremost pinochle sharks . . . parting comment: "We were inexperienced this year, and started a litde late, but they should have a great team next year"' . . . 
JAMES C. WEITHMAN . . . Sophomore tackle from Bucyrus, Ohio, believes his greatest football thrill was recovering a blocked punt in the Navy game which set up the final Irish touchdown .. . a Physical Education major, Jim plans to go into coaching and teaching after graduation . . . the most thrilling game he has participated in was the Purdue game because it was "the first one I played in for Notre Dame" .. . he considers Don Coleman, Michigan State tackle, to be the toughest player he has faced . . . he'd rather play defense . . . 
WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE . . . Bill is a Senior majoring in Finance and plans to enter the Law School of Pennsylvania U. upon graduation . . . the quarterback considers Kyle Rote the best player he has faced and Ed Bagdon of MSC ihe best opposing lineman .. . he enjoys collecting jazz records. . . . Bill resides in Philadelphia, Pa. .. . he is "grateful that my playing for Notre Dame has satisfied a lifelong wish of my father" he feels he is "better suited for defense" and thinks SMU's double-wing gave ND the most trouble . . . 
ROBERT A. WILLIAMS .. . the most famous name in college football. Bob is a two-year All-American and one of the few triple-threat backs in the game today . . . best known for his passing and punting last year, he established himself as a breakaway runner this season . . . hails from Baltimore, Md. . . . a Senior Speech major. Bob plans a career in radio or television after leaving Notre Dame .. . he received his biggest sports thrill when he scored a touch­down in the Michigan State game in 1949 . . . Bob rates Lynn Chadnois, Michigan State's 1949 star, as the best player he has ever faced . . . 
ANTHONY J. ZAMBROSKI .. . is a Physical Education major who consid­ers the 1950 Tulane game to have been his toughest while at ND . . . likes to dance, swim and wresde .. . he doesn't want to play pro ball . . . calls Erie, Pa., home . . . Tony believes that the best back he has faced is Grandelius of MSC and the best lineman Beletic of Purdue . . . the Junior guard lives in Alumni Kail . . . believes rhat the single-wing has been most effective against the Irish . . . he'd rather play defense. 
36 Football 
Operation Pressbox 
By BILL RILEY, '52 
Add the reams of newspaper clip­
pings about Notre Dame athletics to the 
bundles of magazine features dealing 
with the same subject. Divide by the 
"name" of Notre Dame which makes it 
a natural for news-space. The sizeable 
quotient remaining represents the Notre 
Dame Sports Publicity Office, headed by 
a lanky, amiable guy by the name of 
Charlie Callahan. 
There are many facets to the business of getting good publicity, as Chas. would be only too glad to tell you; but for most of the year, Charlie is too busy with the actual practice to find a chunk of time big enough to go into the theory. 
The whole business of publicity comes to a head when at 1:30 of a football Saturday afternoon a conservatively-dressed man carrying a beat-up looking portable tjTiewriter takes the long walk up the black-iron steps into the Notre Dame press box. The box itself is a huge affair, seating well over 300 writers, with almost twenty booths used for ra­dio, TV and photogs. 'The man with the portable could be anyone from Jesse Abramson of the New York Joutnial-American to Sid Ziff from the Los An­geles Mirror. And for him, a great deal of time and trouble has been expended. 
When Mr. Football Writer sits down he will see before him a) a program; 
b) line-ups (first, second a7id third sti'ings, both offensive and defensive) and, some times a dope book. 
After the game — \\ithin six min­utes— Mr. Football Writer has receiv­ed the following material from the sta­tisticians and mimeograph crew that Avork for Notre Dame. He gets: a sum­
Students assemble material for working 
mary of team statistics; a summary of individual statistics, e.g., Petitbon car­ried 7 times for 3-5 yards, an average of 5 yards per try; he also gets a sub­stitution and scoring summary, a state­ment from Coach Leahy about the game, a report from Hughie Burns, the trainer, on injuries, and sometimes, a repeat on the "If" story that was distributed be­fore the game. 
The "If" story is Callahan's special pet. It contains such material as "If Notre Dame wins today, it w^ill be the fourteenth victory for the Irish in this particular series, compared to six for opponents." Every possible contingency that the office staff can think of is stuck into this story, and if Mr*. FW has a mental lapse, all he has to do is pick up the "If" story. It practically writes his lead for him. 
Tliat's Operation Press-box. Before it can be effected, a long week of 16 hour daj^s has been spent making arrange­ments. Which is where Miss Mills is the key figure. From over a thousand re­quests for press box space each year-, Maura has to weed out those who de­serve space . . . and just as important, where that space is to be. Then there are several hundred tickets to be mailed. 
Aside from the actual press box pre­parations, there are many other sides to this business of publicity. Notre Dame fans are always with us. Someone once said: "God must love Notre Dame fans; he made so many of them." Joe Fan in Oskaloosa wants to know the names and addresses of the 1904 team, also, who was the high-scorer on the Irish that year. Another guy Avrites a gripe about 
Reporters stand for National Anthem. 
Notre Dame playing dirty football. To every letter goes an answer*. Sometimes, especially during the heavy work of the home football season, the replies are delayed. But every letter is eventually answered. 
All these features are only secondary to the main purpose of the sports pub­licity office, however. That could be de-, fined as: getting publicity . . . good pxib­licity . . . for Irish athletic teams. 
And Charles Martin Callahan, the man in charge of the sports publicity of­fice, achieves this end more often than he misses it. Far more often. Callahan has an ability to turn a cynical news­man into an interested participant in the Notre Dame way. And even when the sportsAvriter is an anti-Notre Damer, he leaves the campus feeling that his has been a trip worthwhile, both enjoyable and fact-filled. 
 press before game. Sports writers consider ND press box one of country's best. 
Review 37 
Sue Shea is met by John Hastings at train. After brief chat they go to pep rally, first big event on week's agenda. The couple has a wor 
Football Weekend Date 
Photos b> C:HARI.ES 1-. MUUrHY. '51 

There are many football weekends at Notre Dame. All aie biii". There are al;:0 many dances at Notre I>ame but no weekend combines so well the features of both as does that of the Sophomore Cotillion. At least, that was the feeling' of several hundred hap­py member.- of the Class of '5o this year. And, in particular, of John Hastings, from JIarietta, Ohio, and Sue Shea, from Springfield, Ohio. 
Their weekend started Friday as Sue step])ed off the train and went on through the pep raUy in the iammed fieldhouse with the crowd cheering, and on to the formal Cotillion that night. Saturday the high point was the game with Pitt. Sitting in the special section, the couple rooted the team on to its 19-7 win. There was a Mctory Dance that night and on Sunday all dance-goers attended Mass together. The rest of the day was spent rehashing the weekend until it was time for Sue to leave. She said it had all been wonderful and she had never been happiei". John said the same thing—then silently added: and 
John's date spots a friend and talks John into buying a souven'i 
I've never been hroher. 
An autograph from John Petitbon pleases Miss Shea muchly. On Saturday the couple went to the Victory Dance. Sur^ 
:>7f:^5!^5z^asESE2sss8f 
derful time at formal Cotillion. Then, after a late night, they are read y for a hotdog and a gander at hall decorations before the big game. 
pennant. After entering the stadium, John and Sue loudly root their team on to a 19-7 win over the Panthers of Pittsburgh. 
ly morning they leave Sacred Heart Church after attending Mass. Breakfast is next and finally Sue's leavetaking. A great weekend! 
y^^^^R^'^ii^^^gii^a^^^^r'J¥t^;lSJ?lg^1g^Tf^^J^^^*^^^^ 
1950 Xotre Dame Football Roster 
N.\ME  POS.  .•VGE  HT.  WT.  HOME  TOWN  HIGH  SCHOOL  CL.ASS  
.•Me.<;sandriiii. James  Francis  '.  C  19  5-11  198  Charleston.  W. Va  Charleston  Cath.  Soph.  
Banicki. Frederick F. „Bardaih. A'^irgil Julian*Barrctt. William Carlin*Bartlett, James J.Benson. Robert Allen*Boji. Br>;on AllenBuc7kiewicz. Edward George*Burns. Paul EugeneBush. John Lawrence  _  „ _  „ _  T T  HB C E G  HB G  HB  18 19 20 20 20 19 19 20 20  5-10 6-0 5-8 C-3 6-5 5-11 6-0 6-2 6-0  190 210 180 202 195 198 182 208 190  Chicago. IllGarj% I"dChicago, 111Cincinnati. OhioOmaha, NebChicago. IllChicago'. 111..Alliens, PaDavenport, Iowa  .  _  — Leo  Horace Mann  -. Fenwick  Elder  -. Crcighton Prep — Austin  Weber ­_. Athens _ St. .Ambrose —  _ - Jr. Soph. .... Jr. ... Jr. Soph. Jr.  Soph  Jr.  Jr.  
Caprara. Josepli A.Carter. Daniel JamesCarter. Thomas Leslie^'^Cotter. Richard .Adrian  _ „.  _ _  _  FB G  HB  HB  20 19 23 22  6-0 6-1 5-11 6-1  192 200 173 180  Turtle Creek, PaChicago, 111.Los Angeles, Calif.Austin. Minn  _  Turtle Creek -St. George Cathedral St. .Augustine  ­  Jr.  Soph.  Sr. _ Sr.  
Daut. John DonaldDavid. Joseph B.Dolmetsch. Robert Emcr\-Doud. Charles OReillv 1Dunlay. James F.  _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _  T  HB E T T  19 19 20 18 18  6-1 5-10 6-2 6-2 6-2  205 175 195 202 205  Hempstead. N. YNew Orleans, LaChicago, 111,O.vnard. CalifOakmont_ Pa  Hempstead St. Stanislaus .— Leo Villanora (Ojai, Calif.).... Oakmont  Jr.  Soph.  Jr.  Soph.  Soph.  
Emerick, Louis EdwardEpstein. Frank Bertell  _  _ _  E G  20 18  6-2 5-8  210 205  .Albany. N. YChicago, 111  _ Schuyler _. Senn  ­  Soph.  Soph.  
Fcigl. Charles Flood, David ^^icllael Flynn. David Michael -**Flynn. AVilliam James French, William Patrick  C HB C T E  21 21 19 23 19  6-1 5-10 6-3 6-2 6-2  200 185 195 197 195  Chicago. 111.Pittsburgh. PaGar>-, Ind.Gary, IndMurph>-sboro, 111  ­~  -St . George Langley -. Horace Mann Horace Mann Murphysboro  _  Sr.  Jr.  Soph.  Sr.  Soph.  
*Gander. Fidel John Gaudrcau. William Liicicn **Gav. William Theodore Getschow. Lee Ernest **Groom. Jerome Paul (Captain)  .  FB FB QB HB HB  20 20 19 2") 18  6-1 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-0  190 190 178 175 177  Chicago, 111Baltimore. MdChicago, III _Kenilworth. IllDes Moines, Iowa  _  Mt. Carmel ­ Loyola ..._ Tilden Tech New Trier (Winnetka) Dowling  Jr.  Soph.  Sr.  Soph. ­ Sr.  
^Hamby. James Harold -HeKvig. John Frank Higgins. William Patrick Ho\ev. William .\rthur ...  C C E G  21 19 09 23  6-3 6-1 6-2 5-11  215 200 194 180  Canithersville, Mo.Los Angeles, Calif.Chicago. IllLake Placid, N. Y  Caruthersville Mt. Carmel ­ Fenwick Lake Placid  _  Jr.  Sr.  Sr.  Jr.  
Jonardi. Raymond .Johnson. Murray Ellis .... Johnston..Frank .Anthony  HB E HB  24 21 19  5-10 6-2 6-2  175 188 195  Pittsburgh. PaGary, Ind.Chicago, III  — Baldwin — Horace Mann Leo  Sr.  Soph.  Jr.  
Kapish. Robert JohnKelly, Robert JamesKoch. David .Anthony  G E E  20 20 19  5-8 6-0 6-2  184 187 200  Barberton. OhioDuluth, MinnWayzata, Minn  Barberton Cathedral Waj'zata  Jr.  Soph.  Jr.  
*^Landry. Jolm AVarren  _.  E  20  6-2  190  Rochester.  N.  Y.  .Aquinas  Inst  — Sr.  
Marchand. Gerald Huey*Mazur. John EdwardnfcKillip. William LeoMeschie^itz. Vincent .AlexiusModak. Danie!Murphy. Tliomas*Mutsclieller. James Francis  _  „..._ _  _  _  FB  FB  QB  HB E T T  24 19 20 21 19 23 19  6-1 5-8 6-1 5-10 6-4 6-1 6-1  JPO 190 190 175 215 205 210  Baton Rouge, La. .Pl\inouth. PaMcCook, NebChicaao. 111. .Campbell. OhioChicago. IllBeaver Falls, Pa  — Catholic PIvmouth McCook Mt, Carmel — Memorial ­ St. George Beaver Falls  _  Soph.  .fr.  Sr.  Soph,  ,Tr.  Soph.  —. Jr.  
*Ostrowski. Chester Casmir  E  20  6-1  194  Chicago. 111.  .Weber  Jr.  
Paolone. Ralph Norman*Pern.-. Arthur R.*Petitbon. John Ellis  _  HB G  HB  19 19 19  6-0 5-11 5-11  195 198 190  New Castle, Pa Davenoort. Iowa Ne\>' Orleans. La  _. New CastleSt, .AmbroseJesuit  _  Soph,  .Jr.  Jr.  
Seaman. ThomasSmith. Eueenc FrancisSpieler. W'illiam JosephStroud. Clarke  G  HB G G  20 20 18 19  .5-11 5-9 6-0 6-1  200 170 195 200  Canton, Ohio _LaCrosse. WisDenver, Colo. .Casper. Wyo  Lincoln Aquinas Holy Family Casper  ~  _...  Soph.  Sr.  Soph.  Soph.  
*Toneflr,  Robert  20  6-1  235  Barberton.  Ohio  .  _, Barberton  Jr.  
**WaIlner. Frederick Williams Weithman. James Carl Wliclan, Edward .Tames ASIielan. John DcLan Wiitcside. William A. **Williams. Robert Allen Wise. .John Thomas Wolniak. Leonard A.  C T FB HB OB OB OB HB  09 20 18 19 • 21 20 19 19  6-2 6-1 6-0 5-11 5-10 6-1 6-2 5-11  212 195 190 180 172 185 185 175  Greenfield. MassBucyrus, OhioSavannah, GaAliami, FlaPhiladelphia. PaBaltimore, MdCleveland, OhioChicago, 111  Greenfield Bucyrus Benedictine . Miami LaSalle — Loyola . Cath, Latin Morgan Park  _  Sr.  Soph.  Soph.  Soph.  Sr,  Sr.  Soph.  Soph.  
Zambroski. .AnthonyZancha, John D.   John  G T  20 20  5-11 5-10  196 195  Erie, Pa.Chicago, 111.  Cathoh'c -'— St. George  .Tr. Jr.  
* DENOTES  MONOGRAMS  AVON.  

40 Football 
iT^;'^t ^^.'ir^ ^ ^'^•*"^i>^t\f^ 
iSP" 

l^otre Dame's Fighting Irisli Team of 1950 
First Row: Bob Williams, John Mazur, Jim Mutscheller, John Helwig, Fred Wallner, Bill Gay, Capt. Jerry Groom, Bill Barrett, Byron Boji, Leo McKillip, Bob Kapish, Dan Modak, Lee Getschow, Ray Jonardi; Second Row: Joe Caprara, Gerry Marchand, Ed Smith, Bill Vernasco, Bill French, Bill Whiteside, Gene Smith, Ralph Paolone, Tony Zam­broski, Jim Bartlett, Jack Bush, Chuck Feigl, Joe David, Murray Johnson; Third Row: Bob Dolmetsch, Jim Weithman, Ed Buczkiewicz, Bob Kelly, Jack Wise, Tom Murphy, Frank Epstein, Bill Spieler, Fred Banicki, Clarke Stroud, Vince Meschievitz, Art Perry, Len Wolniak; Fourth Row: Dick Cotter, Tom Carter, Bill Higgins, Lou Emerick, Dave Koch, Jack Daut, Bob Benson, Dan Casey, Ernie Knapick, Jack Alessandrini, Bill Gaudreau, Dave Flynn, Bill Flynn, Charlie Doud; Fifth Row: Bob Raymond (Mgr.), Jack Whelan, Tom Seaman, Virgil Bardash, Jim Hamby, Ed Whelan, Paul Burns, Bill Hovey, John Petitbon, Del Gander, Dan Carter; Sixth Row: Al Guarnieri (|Mgr.), Matt O'Don­nell (Mgr.), Bob Toneff, Dave Flood, Frank Johnston; Missing: Chet Ostrowski, Jack Landry, and Jim Dunlay.—Photo by Bruce Harlan, 
The Thundershakers 
By A\ ALT COLLINS, '51 
Associate Editor 
The Irish score! The point is kicked! 
On the edge of the field seven blue­sweatered cheer leaders go through a series of frantic antics and fantastic gyi-ations to the deafening roar of the student body. In section 30 of the stands, the Notre Dame marching band balance their instruments and the Victory March blares through the afternoon. 
Gradually the students join in with the music and the cheerleaders wave their arms, marking time for the singers. There is .ioy in Mudville after all. 
The Notre Dame marching band and the cheer leaders are as much a part of every football game as the team, the officials, or the crowd. They are part of the "color" of the football afternoon. 
This year's band, under the baton of 
H. Lee Hope and the drum majoring of Dave O'LearVj of Manson, Iowa, is com­posed of 103 uniformed men. The musical organization played for all four home games. In addition when the team took off for New Orleans and Tulane, and again for Cleveland and Na\'j'^, the band packed up and went along. 
President of the 1950 band is "William MacMillan, of Dayton, Ohio. O'Leary combines the ai't of high-stepping with the science of vice-presidenting. Secre­
tary of the organization is Jim Doyle, 
of Nunda, N. Y. Jack McVey, of St. 
Louis, Mo., is the band's social chairman. 
For its half-time shows, the band this 
year had an eye on the omnipresent TV 
cameras. Their shows were based on 
three fundamentals. The first of these 
was precision marching; the sceond was 
a waltz step; and the third a swing 
step. Working from these bases, the 
band jDresented timely and colorful 
entertainment while the Leahy lads were 
in the locker room. 
Down on the sidelines, the cheer lead­
ers, seven strong, were led through their 
stuff by Dick Herrle^ of Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Like the band, the cheerleaders trav­eled to New Orleans and to Cleveland. These men were the public custodians of the favorite Shannon View Mike I, the Irish terrier that mascots the Irish grid-men. 
Under Herrle's direction were six liien: Jack Wenning, of Cleveland, Ohio; Jack McGlinn, of Reading, Pa.; Mike Perino, of Deer Grove^ 111.; Neil Vas­concellos, of Honolulu, Hawaii; Dan Marsalek, of Bay Village, Ohio; and Mike Dolan, of Yazoo City, Miss. 
The cheerleaders this year boasted for the first time in their history a constitu­tion appi-oved by the Student Council. 
Head yell leader Dick Herrle breaks onto field followed by spirited squad members. 
Drum major Dave O'Leary signals band. 
Nor were the actual games the only field of endeavor for these hearty-throat­ed men. 
They appeared at each of the pep ral­lies and at the team sendoffs. Their sten­torian "Irish! Spell it out" was a pass­word for student roof-lifting. These were the men who had the major role in "shaking downi the thunder" fi-om the skies and the rafters. 
And so, at half-time in the Notre Dame Stadium, the blue-coated band members marched on to the playing field, led by the strutting of Dave O'Leary in white. They spread out into the formations of the day and played the songs of the daJ^ And just before the second half of play was resumed, the band faced the ND stands and played the Victory March. 
Also , at half-time^ the cheerleaders set up Mike's hurdles and took him through his paces. They led the stu­dents in the Victory March. They in­stigated a prepai-atory Drum Yell to inspire the Irish as they warmed up for the second half of battle. 
Then the band and the cheerleaders —indispensible cogs in the Irish "ma­chine" which includes every student, rooter^ and subway alumnus the country over—settled down to do their job. 
Football 

No Headlines • • • Just Headaches 
Notre Dame's football team got its share of newspi'int this past season. Williams received the sportswriters' tributes. Leahy was the target of their criticism. Jones and Cahill just got headaches, and plenty of them, but they didn't make the front pages. 
Managing an athletic office isn't the kind of work which lends itself to game write-ups and feature stories. To a re­porter who's looking for the best in col­legiate forward passers, the man who sits behind a desk with airline schedules and hotel accommodations in his hands just isn't '-hot copy." But Ail-American Bob Williams wouldn't have been able to capture the heart of New Orleans with­out the work of Herbert E. Jones, Notre Dame's Business Manager of Athletics. 
Jones Arranges Trips 
Herb Jones is the man resiDonsible for arranging the far-flung trips taken by this year's Fighting Irish, the man who sees that Leahy's Lads have hotel space for their away games, get enough steaks under their belts, and get to the sta­diums. If the club isn't on the road, he has to take care of the home arrange­ments, providing for stadium attendants, parking lot employees, program vendors, concession operators, first-aid attend­ants. His office handles the equipment demands made by the green shirted wrecking crew. For all of this he may "cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame" and direct the photographers to Cartier Field where the photogenic lads hold forth. 
But Herb Jones isn't alone in his anonymity. In a small basement office Ticket Manager M. Robert Cahill quiet-
By AL LAPORTE, '51 
Feature Editor 

ly, swiftly and efficiently supervises the distribution of those priceless ducats to Notre Dame games. He, like his com­patriot on the first floor, begins football work in July. Application blanks go out to alumni, season box holders, students, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Fan. They pour back in to the tune of requests for 500,000 tickets. Notre Dame has only 300,000 to sell. That's enough for a 14-man staff, working well into the night in the hot summer months, to fill. All of Notre Dame's home games were sellouts this fall; all but the USC away games were capacity affairs. 
The problem of allocating 222 50-yard line seats for the stadium among some 500,000 people isn't the easiest thing in the woi'ld to do. There are always the fans who "just won't settle for anything off midfield" and the others who "always sit on the 50, but always!" Maybe a tricky single wing is tough to contain, but its quarterback doesn't write nasty letters because you stopped his spinners. 
It seems incongruous that the man who handles 300,000 tickets couldn't set aside one a game for himseK, but Bob Cahill not only doesn't use one of his pasteboards, he had time to see but 15 minutes aggregate of the home games from the stands! Saturday afternoon the Ticket Manager stays in the box of­fice, tending to any complications which may arise in the seating. It was while he waited in the office during the Michi­gan State game that a long distance caU came through from Cleveland to Coach Leahy. Bob finally persuaded the party to let him relay the message since Sir Francis was occupied at the time with a third quarter touchdown drive. The caller, a rabid Notre Dame fan, began to explain a "surefire play," one he could see had to work. Bob went back to his tickets, thankful not all the people were TV viewers. 
Both From Dixon, 111. 
Assisting "Mr. 4.80" is that temporary staff of 14, a corps which is decimated as the season progresses until only a handful remain at the last whistle. When the bulk of this crew leaves, Mrs. Charles Miller, the office supervisor and Mr. Cahill's "left hand," retires for an­other year. This season the head man will undergo an amputation, for his "right hand," secretary Joan Hitchner, retires permanently to be married. 
Both of these unheralded Irishmen are from the same town, Dixon, Illinois. Both are graduates of Notre Dame, Mr. Jones receiving his bachelor's degree in 1927 and Mr. Cahill his in 1934. 
Now the "Gold dust Twins" from Dixon can relax a bit. The 1950 season is in the books. The sportswriters stfll slipping around the campus are inter­ested only in details for the post mortem, and they won't find them in the Business or Ticket Managers' offices. But soon the grind starts again. Next year is just around the comer, and that Idckoff for the opening game isn't too far away . . . 
Business Manager Herb Jones does one of his myriad chores. M. Robert Cahill, Ticket Manager, dictates to Joan Hitchner. 
R e V t ew 
Although toting the water bucket on the field is usually the trainers' task, the 
«f aeks - of - all - Trades 
Senior Managers Mother Hens 

Football is bier business. And at Notre 
Dame one of the key factors in that busi­
ness is the Student Manag-ers Associa­
tion, seldom praised, seldom rewarded, 
but never failing- to maintain its part in 
the pi-oduction of a team. 
AVith a membership of close to 50 men from all classes, the Association demands steady and sincere performance from its workers, who handle every varsity spoi-t on campus. Each year its ranks are pared, until there remain only seven Juniors, who are groomed to succeed their Senior colleagues. 
Of the seven Seniors, three have charge of the managerial end of this gridiron of enterprise. Their sundry duties range from serving as sub-assist­ant coaches to sorting laundry. Except for the other four Seniox's, who share the burdens in the other sports, every member of the Association works under their supervision. These three, in turn, assist Business Manager Herb Jones and Equipment Superintendent John McAll­ister. 
Heading this triumvirate is a market­ing major from Warren, Ohio, Al Guar­niei'i. As Senior manager, Al must of necessity be a jack-of-all-trades. His major headache is to make certain that everything—^from tees to trains—comes off as scheduled. 
Diplomacy a Prerequisite Playing the part of a diplomat is another must. Every week he becomes a dike to withstand the waves of newsmen, autograph-hunters, spies, and various non-entities that regularly descend upon the team. When away-from-home games ap­proach, Al helps Mr. Jones with the itin­ei-ary, keeps account of class cuts for the team, and distributes train or plane tickets to the iilayers. The major part of personnel woi'k is handled by Associate Manager Matt O'Donnell. Matt, a Portsmouth, N. H., lad, finds excellent experience for his Business Administration course in his position as "mother hen" to the players and assistant managers. He must see that everyone shows up at the right time, and that no one is left behind on a trip. In addition to shepherding the team, he assigns the miscellaneous tasks to his fellow managers. Although Matt makes a good-looking secretary, he must rely on his typewriter talents to please his cohorts. Undoubt­edly the letter-writing champion of 
3iust Be Diplomats, and Quartermasters 
By DON CARBONE, '53 

Notre Dame, he pecks out reams of mes­sages concerning all kinds of arrange­ments. One of his major responsibilities in this line is that of having cuts can­celled for the traveling squad, lest any­one receive an "FA" on his report of grades. 
A "football quartermaster" is a fit title for the other Associate Manager, Bob Rajnnond, a Biz Ad major from Oak Park, 111. Bob is a combination haberdasher and between-games water boy. As equipment manager, he must' see that each player is neatly and nat­tily outfitted from cleats to headgear. For some away games, he packs as many as 20 trunks full of equipment. 
The oddest part of Bob's job is his trusteeship over the team's special water supply. When the squad travels, it may take along 18 cases—^106 half-gallons— of tested water, to prevent any ailments which often arise from strange and im­pure water. This ND H.,0 must be served at every meal and placed in every room. 
managers handle the scoreboard, as well as the balls, tees, oranges, spare cleats, ; and adhesive tape reserves at games. During practice sessions, they are fre­quently called upon to assist the coaches by taking notes and tabulating statistics. 
The center of all this managerial activity is a little cubicle consisting of three desks and two typewriters and located in the fieldhouse. In spite of its size, the office serves as an adequate headquarters with the exception of week­ly pre-game meetings of the entire Asso­ciation, when the two or three layers of managers produce a somewhat crowded effect. 
Firm Has a Warehouse So much like a business firm is the Association that it even has a ware­house. Otherwise known as the equip­ment room, this distribution center is situated next to the dressing room be­neath the stadium stands. The firai of Guarnieri, O'Donnell, and Raymond, birthplace of many a business executive, even sends its agents into the field. Each of the seven Junior mem­bers accompanies the team on one of its trips, thus gaining the experience neces­sary for replacing the Senior managers when they graduate. This closely-knit organization, headed by three Commerce students from Dillon Hall, has experience in the handling of 
•men and material as its chief rewai'd for helping to build and maintain the "Fighting Irish." 
Managers (I to r) Matt O'DonneK, A! Guarnieri, and Bob Raymond store equipment. 
Football 

Keeper of the Stadium 
BY JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51 
Associate Editor 
"One buzz means I have to go to the Main Office. Two buzzes mean I have to go to the Personnel Office. Three buzzes mean I have to go to the shop." 
Joseph Dierickx, custodian of the Notre Dame Stadium, explains that this buzzer system is the reason he hasn't seen a Notre Dame home football game in six years. Even though he's in the Stadium every football Saturday, Joe is just too busy to see the Fighting Irish in action. "There's a lot of work to be done during a football game," he re­marks and its usually Joe Dierickx who does the work. 
Joe has been in charge of the upkeep and maintenance of the Notre Dame Stadium for twenty years, as long as both of them have been at the Univer­sity. 
He was born in Antwerp, Belgium in 1885 and came to the United States 44 years ago. At that time he hadn't thought about taking care of a stadium and didn't even know about Notre Dame. He was an acrobat and strong man in show business then, performing before audiences in Europe, Mexico, and the United States. For 16 years Joe toured the vaude\'ille and circus circuits from coast to coast with such companies as Haggenbeck & Wallace and Eingling Bros., Barnum & Bailey. 
A. railroad accident near Gary, Ind., in 1918 killed Joe's brother and partner and left him with a bad leg. From then on, the tights and spotlights were but pleasant memories. 
Joe went to Bethlehem, Pa., and worked in the Bethlehem steel mill. After four years there, he moved to South Bend, Ind., and took a job with the Studebaker Corp., which he held for 12 years. When the job of custodian of the Notre Dame Stadium was opened by the University, Joe left the inside factory work he disliked so much and applied for the caretaker's post. He's been at ND ever since. 
In 20 years Joe has become a land­mark of the University, especially to the players and coaches of the football team who perform on Saturday afternoons in his Stadium. His office and shop are located underneath the North section. It looks like a museum, a pictorial "hall of fame" for Notre Dame athletes. Every wall is covered with over a thousand pic­tures, autographs, signs, schedules, pen­nants, megaphones and mementoes of all sorts. They bring back memories of other Fighting Irish football seasons— 
Review 
when Elmer Layden led the Gallic le­gions, when Bill Shakespeare and Milt Piepul blasted through opponents' lines, when the "Springfield Eifle," Angelo Bertelli, broke into banners in every paper across the countiy and began that now fabulous string of ND T-formation, AU-American quarterbacks. 
Since taking care of the Stadium is a big, year-around job, Joe supervises a crew of several men who attend to every need of the more than 56,000-seat struc­ture and its environs. The seats, boards and braces, are painted eveiy four years by the crew in the Summer. Other things, in and around the Stadium, such as refreshment counters, the press box, hand rails, and folding chairs for the box seats require more frequent paint­ings. 
Joe's crew also cares for the gi'een, carpet-smooth turf that covers the entire Stadium field. Evei-y year it is seeded and g-iven a top dressing of fresh, black dirt. "Ee-sodding," says Joe, "brings in too many weeds and we have enough trouble with weeds as it is." 
As the football season rolls around each Fall, Joe Dierickx's work doubles and begins to pay dividends. A protec­tive canvas tarpaulin is stretched out by 15 men over the playing field eveiy Wed­nesday before a home game. At 6 a.ni. on Saturday mornings when the Fight­ing Irish play at home, Joe and his crew check the weather and start rolling up the canvas and getting things ship­shape. After the gridiron tussle, Joe has to clean up and haul away truckloads of refuse and debris. An interesting ob­servation about the crowds by Joe is "there are fewer whiskey bottles now when the crowds are the biggest we've bad than there were back in the thirty's when they averaged about 25,000." 
Joe says his toughest season was in 1949, when the heavy snowfall before the Southern California game called for volunteer helpers to help clear the Sta­dium. The 1950 season he called easy, because it was finished early. 
Besides his custodian's position, Joe trains and cares for the two Irish ter­rier mascots of Notre Dame, Shannon Mike and his recently acquired wife, Pat. He learned how to train animals during his circus days and takes a great pride in the ND mascots. . When Joe isn't Avorking Avith his in­evitable pipe in his mouth, he likes to talk about his family. He was married in Elkton, Md. in 1918 and is the father 
tmmpsimsmm 
of six children—four boys and two girls. This year Joe had an extra job be­sides the usual ND Stadium duties. He travelled to Cleveland, Ohio the Wed­nesday before the Navy game and was in charge of preparing the Municipal Stadium for the game. He took his first vacation two years ago when he trav­elled lo Los Angeles, Calif, to see the ND-Southern California contest. There are a million and one things he can readily recall about his job, but there goes that buzzer again and Joe Dierickx is gone, helping to make the Notre Dame Stadium one of the most beautiful and well organized in the na­tion. 
mmmmtmsammmmmm 
PHILIP MORRIS challenges any other leading brand to suggest this test 
1
light up a PHa.P MOR'^'^ ^^, ,, e smoke 
,,. e through your nose. Easy, .s 
u nd Do exactly the 
2
Light up your P-^"' ^ ^ Notice *o. b«e, ,hot *ng ' Q"'" KntPHlUPMO"'"* 
o..„ b.a„as ™e... ;.*---;^^ te ^^^^ 
tiflIT*»ittMEB—— OMR too rCARS 
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER 
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE ! 
PHILIP MORRIS 
F ootb all 

Give LEATHER for CHRISTMAS 
Complete collection of Men's and Ladies' Luggage 
Gift Items: 
•
 Billfolds 

•
 Traveling Clocks 

•
 Pipes 

•
 Cigarette Cases 


HANS - RINTZSCH 
Luggage Shop 
138 N. Michigan St. 

ROSE & KATZ 
for 
ARROW 

FOTM£V MD I Vrotz/vc ueN MAIN AT COLFAX SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA 
Choose your ARROW SHIRTS 
from the complete selection in the Men's Shop at First Floor 
ofS'outhmend 

Review 
A Campus-favorite coUai styles . . . made as only Arrow can make 'em. 
B Every shirt Sanforized-Labeled . . . less than 1% shrinkage! Long wearing fabrics. 
C Mitoga tailored . . . cut with easy tapering from shoulder to waist .. . no waistline bimching! 
D Extra durable buttons firmly anchored on. 
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES 
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHffiTS 
Make GILBERTS 
your ARROW headquarters 
/If 

GILBERT'S 
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock 
it's easy! . . . it's fun! . . . 
the GEORGE DAVIS way. 
Prepare now for this season's fun! You'll enjoy the congenial atmosphere of South Bend's largest and most beau­tiful dance studio. Come in . . . or call 
3-8229 

Special rates for Notre Dame men. 
Alice and \ George Davis 
"South Bend's Largest Dance Studios' 
South Bend 106 W. Monroe at Michigan Dial 3-8229 Elkhart 215/2 So. Main St. Dial 2-4333 
FINE REPAIRING 

Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items 
HEALTH SPOT I 
209 West Colfax Avenue 

126 N. Micliigan St., South Bend, Ind. Paul Whalen, Mgr. 
A BOOK 
is a Good Gift 
and a better gift for friends of Notre Dame men is a book by someone at Notre Dame. Aquinas has several titles that they'll -wrap and mail for you. Get your order in now in plenty of time for Christmas. 
"The Fresh and Open Sky." Rich­ard Sullivan. "Concerning Mary Ann," Fr. Leo 
Ward. "Bond ol Being," James Anderson. "A Fountain in Kentucky." John F. 
Nims. 
"Reclamation oi Independence." 

Willis Nutting. "Road to Damascus." Fr. John O'Brien, Willis Nutting. "Reproachfully Yours." Lucile Has­ley. 
"Where I Found Christ." Fr. John O'Brien, Edward Dodson, Dale Fran­cis, Lucile Hasley. 
"Idea Men of Today." Vincent Smith. 
"Testing the Spirit." Fr. Felix Duffey. . "Notre Dame." Fr. Arthur Hope. 
Order these books by your Notre Dame neighbors now from 
AQUINAS BOOK STORE 
n o East LaSalle St. 
BLOCK BROS. 
Corner Michigan & Washington 
Jewelers to 
Notre Dame 
for more than 
25 years. 

DIAMONDS—JEWELRY — WATCHES 
J. Trethewey 
JOE THE lEWELER 

104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg. 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
General Dentistry 

Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—^x-ray diagnosis 
702 J. M. S. BUILDING So. BEND By appointment PH . 4-5661 
Football 

»ar9 / I N 
m^m M\\^///// 
AT INDIANA TYPESETTING CORPORATION 
211 SERVICE COURT* SOUTH BEND 1, INDIANA 
The Passionist Fathers Ask You to Leave Everything (or 
a While ... % /?e^ G^ ^UUik Aloui yo44^ Saul 
Have you made a retreat recently? 
Why not take time out from your work and the temptations of the street, to go to a quiet place and be alone with God? Leave everything.for awhile — to rest and think about your soul. 
For information concerning WEEK-END RETREATS for men conducted by the Passionist Fathers contact the Father Retreat Director at the monastery in your locality. 
St. Gabriel Monastery St. Paul Monastery Boston 35. Mass. St. Paul Monastery Detroit 23. Bflich. 
Pittsburgh 3. Penn. 
Mater Dolorosa Monastery Lady of Sorrows Monastery Sierra Madre. CaliL 

West Springfield, Mass. Holy Cross Monastery Mt. Adams Christ the King Betreat 
Immaculate Conception Monastery 

Cincinnati 2. Ohio Citrus Heights Jamaica 3, L. I.. N. Y. Sacramento. Calif. 
Review 49 
...and when you dance 

Van Tux Van Dress M^s 
The class of the class prom . . . that's Van Heusen Dress shirts. SnoAvy white pique fronts. French cuffs, fine handkerchief-cloth bodies—all tailored Avith that extra magic of Van Heusen se\sTnanship. Van Tux in two collar-attached models—wide-spread and regular. Van Dress is neckband only. Best insurance for keeping off the stag line—Van Heusen Formal Favorites. 
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size. 
9 Van Heusen 
REG. T. M. 
sMrts 

"the world's smartest" 
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y. 
It's ADLER'S for Van Heusen 
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON 
Rich New Colortones 
in Distinctive 
SPORT COATS S45 

A smart array of handsome new fall Sport Coats featuring the popular colortones. Style and fit are exem­plified in these creations .. . for luxurious ease slip into one of these Sport Coats. 
Parker - Winterrowd 
115/o - 117/2 North Main St. Second Floor 

50 Football 
SPECIAL OFFER 
HHicC Plenachrome Film 
The All-Weather film — Guaranteed with any camera in all weather — all the time. 
TWO Roils of either 127 - 620 -120 - 616 -116 for tlie price of ONE. 
Notre Dome Fighting Irish Album, $2.90 
Mail your order to 
South Bend Photo 
Post Office Box 1439 South Bend 24. Indiana 
K c V I e w 
BING CROSBY 
ARTHUR GODFREY 
Cbpjiight 1950, LiGCtiT & Myrns TOBACCO CO. 







