
Congratulations 
Notre Dame 
GRID MEN 
of 1945/ 
^ suggestion for Shoppers . . . 
BOTANY "500" SUITS 



Gift 
MAIN AT COLFAX 
ARROW SHIRTS 


Billfolds 

"The MEN'S Corner" 
STETSON AND 


forjHIM or 
LEE HATS 

Home of Nationally for HER BOTANY TIES Accepted Merchandise 
• SLIM A slim Billfold by Rumpp foe Mis, cards, checks and notes. Made in an 
assortment of leathers... ostzich, seal and goat. 
• SECURt 
There's extra security for notes and 
valuables in this billfold. Compart" 
mcnts for cards and change, too. 
Made by RumpD in ostrich, seal and 

NICE GOING "IRISH" goat leathers. 

on a successful season Initials in Gold Free 
**G E G C G E • $•• 

nelBATJfEIt Shop. 
Ml Wul WaahiaiisB Av«. 

Two . 


Ike Nohe 3>a4Me 


SCHOLASTIC 
Pne6je*hU 
V=!-J,T^=^ 

The Fighting Irish 
of 1945, who played before 535,000 fans this year, and who had the loyal support of thousands of Notre Dame students and graduates and the devoted following of uncounted millions of "synthetic alumni." 
Three 

^he SYotre Q)ame Scholastic 
Disce Quasi Semper Vkturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
FOUNDED 1867 

•lllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllltlllllttllllftlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllltllllllllllllll 
••iitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiit mill iiiiiiiiiiii III tiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiii 
THE STAFF 

FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief 
JOHN DEFANT Managing Editor GEORGE COLLINS -Navy Associate Editor PAUL WEYRAUCH Sports Editor JAMES F. MCCARTHY Feature Editor 
COLUMNISTS 

THOMAS M. HIGGINS --- The College Parade LOUIS ALMASI . . . . The Crow's Nest ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----The Green Banner PHIL CORBOY --. -Splinters ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT Frosh Froth 
CONTRIBUTORS 

JAMES GREENE RALPH HAYMAN 
JACK TINKLE JOE LANG 

BILLY SLAVICK FRANK TYCHSEN 
GERARD HEKKER DAVE OLSON 
PAUL ABRAHAM JUSTIN CICCONETTI 
JOE RENINGER JOHN C. THOMAS 
W. O. MILLER JAMES JOHN JIM REGAN BILL PFAFF JAMES BURNS DAVE WARNER SAMUEL HAZO JOHN GUNTHER PAUL RAGAN BILL BRAUN 
JAMES FERSTEL Photography ARTHUR COUGHLAN -Circulation Manager REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C. Faculty Advisor ADVERTISING Publications Office 
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 11033, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. 
' Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by Na­tional Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, ex­cept during vacations and examination periods at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publica­tions Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Four 


College Parade 
By THOMAS M. KGGINS 

STRICTLY IN THE SPIRIT OF THIS ISSUE . . . 
An item from the Indiana Student printed here in its 
entirety: Under a Minneapolis dateline, October 30, "Minne­
sota's Golden Gophers settled down today to some serious 
work." Either it was very serious work, or else the reporter 
ran out of ink. 
The Ohio State Lantern reports that when the Ohio boys showed up at Pittsburgh recently to play the Panthers, they neglected to bring along a complete set of game uni­forms. Shouldn't they change their name from the Buckeyes to the Plumbers? 
Charlie Trippi, a real old Southern Gentleman from 'way down Pennsylvania way, has been elected captain of the 1946 Georgia Bulldog team. Steve Cantos has been selected by his Michigan teammates for the school's most valuable player award. This is the first time that the honor has been bestowed upon a freshman. 
According to the Creightonian, Creighton University has extended an offer of a four-year scholarship to the center of a Lincoln high school who lost an eye in a game against Creighton Prep. 
Loyola University (Maryland), which had no intercol­legiate football team this year, had 72 percent of its student body engaged in intramural football during the season. 
The Eochester Campus comes up with this masterpiece: ". . . . the Rivermen dropped four in a row, three of them to teams they could have whipped easily on a second try." Lads, won't you ever learn that it is the first time that counts? 
The Purdue Exponent reveals that when the Ohio State jay-vee squad journeyed to West Lafayette to play the Pur­due junior varsity, they visited Purdue Home Ec classes. They couldn't have sampled the typical Home Ec cooking, however, as they subdued the Purdue team 13-7. (When will the Ohio State Lanteiii learn that Purdue is not in Bloom­ington? Indiana students are liable to,^get mad!) 
In a poll conducted at Siena College recently regarding the student body's desire for an intercollegiate sport pro­gram, the answer was unanimous—^football. 
NOTES UPON A SCREWY FOOTBAU SEASON . . . 
We remember when bowl games were feats of skill be­tv\'een evenly matched teams. This year it seems to be differ­ent. The Eose Bowl will have as host a thrice-beaten team. Southern California, and in the Cotton Bowl there will be Missouri University, another thrice-beaten outfit. . . . Out on the coast, a California back angled a bad punt off the side of his foot. A teammate grabbed the ball on his own 15-yard line and set sail for the UCLA goal line. Past the mid-field stripe he lateralled the ball to the man who had made the bad punt, who in turn carried the oval over for the only score of the game. . . . Trying to go them one better, however, in a high school game: A centered the ball to B who handed it oflF to C who gave it to D on a double reverse. E took the pigskin from D on a Statue of Liberty play and lateralled it to F who flipped a short pass to G. The ball bounced out of G's hands and into H's arms.—P. S. They lost 47 yards on the play! 
Five 


The Notre Dame Coaching Staff 
HUGH J. DEVORE 
* Notre Dame's new head football coach and director of athletics is a na­tive of Newark, N. J., where he starred in football at St. Benedict's Prep School. Devore, who enrolled at Notre Dame in 1930, was highly impressive as a mem­ber of the freshman team and in 1931, as a sophomore, he won a starting end position on the varsitj' eleven. A regu­lar for the next three years, Devore was named team co-captain and won All-American honors in 1933, and he gained considerable prestige as the best col­legiate blocker in the nation. Upon his 
graduation from Notre Dame, Hugh was named assistant freshman coach at the universit}' for the 1934 season. Af­ter ser\'ing as line coach under Jimmy Crowley at Fordham during the 1935­36-37 seasons, he accepted a position as head coach at Providence College in Rhode Island, Four }'ears later he be­came assistant to head coach Ank Scan-Ian at Holy Cross. In 1943 he joined the Notre Dame staff as line coach. When Ed McKeever moved last spring to Cor­nell as head coach, Devore was named his successor. Married, he has four chil­dren: Hugh Jr., 6, George 5, Madeline 3, Marie 2. 
* • • 
KENNETH L. STILLEY 
* After nine years of successful high school coaching. Ken Stilley joined the Notre Dame coaching staff this year to aid in developing Irish linemen. Stil­ley, a native of Clairton, Pennsylvania, was educated in the public school sys­tem there and was an All-State full­back choice in each of his three years on the squad. Entering Notre Dame in 1932, he played left tackle on Irish elevens and earned monograms in 1934­
35. He also was an outstanding weight-man on the Notre Dame track squad. Ken's high school coaching career be­gan in 1936 when he became head coach of the Allentown, (Pa.) Prep. School. In 1940 he served as assistant coach at Allentown High School and then in 1941 moved as head coach to Altoona Catholic High School. During the 1942­43 seasons he returned to his home town to become head coach at Qairton High School, and in 1944 he served as head coach at North Catholic High School in Pittsburgh. This year is his first on the Notre Dame Staff. 
WALTER J. ZIEMBA 
* A native of Hammond, Indiana, Wal­ly Ziemba entered Notre Dame in 1939 after gaining statewide acclaim for his football ability at Hammond High School. Ziemba attracted even more at­tention through his feat of versatility of playing end one year, fullback his sophomore year and tackle his junior and senior years in high school. He 

maintained his tackle berth in his fresh­man year at Notre Dame and held down a first string job on the Irish frosh squad. After playing varsity tackle in his sophomore year, Wally was shift­ed to center in 1941, and was an im­mediate success. In spite of a knee in­jury in 1942, Ziemba's performance in his senior year attracted enough atten­tion to gain him Ail-American honors. Upon graduation, Ziemba entered the Marine Corps, but received a medical discharge in July, 1943. He joined the Irish coaching staff in the Fall of 1943. 
JOSEPH L. SHEEKETSKI 
* Joseph Sheeketski, from Shadyside, Ohio, came to Notre Dame in 1929, af­ter a brilliant high school career at Shadyside high school. He won his frosh numerals, played on the national champ­ionship team of 1930, although he did not win a monogram, and then for the next two years was right halfback at Notre Dame. He was recognized as one of the greatest blockers in intercollegiate football, and his backs this year give promise of reflecting his coaching in that phase of the game. Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Sheeket­ski went to Holy Cross, where he was backfield coach under Dr. Eddie Ander­son for the next six years. In 1939, he became head coach. During the next three years that he was at the helm of Holy Cross, his teams gained nationwide attention for their brilliant blocking and all around play. Following the 1941 season, Sheeketski resigned to become a member of the FBI. He remained a "G man" until Januarj' of this past year, when he resigned to enter private 
business in Cleveland. 
C. J. (JAKE) KLINE 
* A former Notre Dame baseball star in the pre-World War I era, Jake Kline returned to the University in 1931 as assistant freshman football coach after several years of managing minor league baseball clubs. Jake, who hails from Pennsylvania, climaxed his baseball ca­reer at Notre Dame after playing in 1915-16-17 by captaining the ball team in his senior year. Still fresh in the memories of old time Irish baseball fans are the three home runs Kline slugged to beat Michigan in 1917. Passing up several big league offers, he enlisted in the Army in 1917 and spent 1918 and 1919 overseas. He was named head base­ball coach in 1934 and has piloted Irish nines ever since, in addition to his du­ties as assistant football coach. Jake 
holds  a  full  professorship  in  the  de­ 
partment  of  mathematics.  
•  •  •  

HARRY A. JACUNSKI 
* Harry Jacunski was born in New Britain, Connecticut, where he was edu­cated in the public school system, and attended New Britain high school. At New Britain High, he gained statewide recognition as a center and was named All-State in 1934. Jacunski entered Fordham University in 1935 and earned monograms for three years as a regular end on the Rams. He joined the Green Bay Packers, in the National Profession­al football league in 1939, and played end with the Packers for the next six years. While Harry was a member of the Green Bay eleven, the Packers cap­tured two professional championships, in 1939 and 1944. Jacunski was married in January, 1940, and has twin boys, Richard and Robert, 4^^, and a daugh­ter, Carol Ann, 3. Harry serves as line coach for the Irish, joining the staff this past spring. 

Leit to right: Jake Kline. Harry Jacunski, Hugh Devore. Wally Ziemba, Ken Stilley. and Joe Sheeketski. 
S i X 
ir 
Before the 1945 Notre Dame football team had taken the field for its first game, the nation's so-called "experts" had written the Irish off as a hopeless case. Claims stated were that the new head coach, Hugh Devore, had the worst material in 25 years at Notre Dame. 
After the opening game victory over Illinois, the United Press named Devore as the "Coach of the AVeek." The honors and words of praise did not stop there. 
Few football teams in Notre Dame gridiron history have had more respect and admiration for their head coach than the 1945 squad did for Hughie Devore. This spirit plus the sound coach­ing tactics of the former Notre Dame star sent Notre Dame through a terrific schedule with only two defeats and one tie, bringing nation-wide acclaim to the team and coach. 

Hiighie Devore did not have any magic powers or any streaks of luck during his one-year tenure as head coach. He mere­ly acted as Hugh Devore, no one else, with a result which the records show. He Avasn't hampered by lack of confi­dence at the outset of the season nor did he let his players become over-confi­dent after they had become successful in the first six games. After a trouncing at the hands of Army, Devore rallied the team into stride again, so forcefully, in fact, that Northwestern and Tulane were brushed aside by wide margins. 
It isn't known yet who will be hon­ored as the "Coach of the Year," biit at least in the hearts and minds of all Notre Dame men it will be Hugh De­
vore. He has rightfully earned that title. It also remains unknown at this time as to where Hugh will go from here. Certainly his one season at Notre Dame should speak for itself, so that an attrac­tive offering should be in the making. While Devore has received no offers per­sonally, iiimors—^what little they mean— have him as a possibility at Annapolis or the University of Arkansas as head coach. It has also been repoi-ted that Hiighie did receive a most attractive offer from one of the countiy's leading schools but that he has made no decision as yet. 
Well, Mr. Devore, wherever you may go, all Notre Dame men wish you con­tinued success. You have won your place at Notre Dame for good—you will not be forgotten. 

Coach Hugh Devore Receives Mascot Clashmore Mike II, a Gift of James McGarrafhy (left) of Chicago 
?i^S^^;•^i:i^:\^^:^ 

A TRIBUTE 
They hit the line—and they hit it hard— And they ran the ends of fame. They passed and kicked to the distant goal, When they starred in the college game. 
i But they heard the bugles of war that called To a rougher and tougher test, And now they sleep under foreign sod. The stars who have earned their rest. 
They played the game in the good old way That led to the bayonet's thrust. They led the charge to the final goal. Which covers their golden dust. 
—Grantland Rice 
The 1945 Football Issue of THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC pauses to pay tribute to the Notre Dame football monogram winners who gave their lives in the World War, now over. As the school and nation return to peacetime living and peacetime joys, we must not forget those who will never return. 
Hercules Bereolos Jack Chevigny Vincent F. Harrington George Murphy Martin G. O'Reilly 
E i -g hj 
Notre Dame 7; Illinois 0 
Before 40,000 startled but highly pleased spectators, an under­dog Notre Dame eleven opened their 57th football season by defeating a hard-fighting highly-touted Illinois squad, 7-0, in spacious Notre Dame stadium. The Irish, quite unaware of the fact that they were supposed to be beaten, crossed the experts and the goal line on the first play of the game when Frosh Phil Colella scampered 76 yards for a touchdown behind letter-perfect interference. 
Hardly a fan had settled down in his seat after the opening kickoff when Colella took a shovel pass from Frankie Dancewicz, Blue and Gold "T" master, and raced wide around the Illini left end, cut back through the secondary, and galloped the remaining distance unmolested to pay dirt. When Stan Krivik came into the game and dropkicked the extra point, the scoring column had reached the "30" mark with the time clock showing 50 seconds of the contest completed. But the next 59 minutes and 10 seconds told an entirely different story. 
Notre Dame kicked off, and when Tony Butkovich, Illini quarterback, fumbled the ball the Irish recovered on the visitor's 35-yard line, but were unable to gain. After an exchange of punts, Illinois moved from its own 20 to the Notre Dame 11-yard line, with Bray and Zaborac sweeping the ends for consistent gains. The threat ended here, however, when Bob Skoglund, Irish end, broke through and dropped Bray for an 18-yard loss. Bray fumbled on the play and Bill Fischer recovered for the Blue and Gold on its own 29, but again the Irish couldn't gain. 
Coach Hughie Devore's lads were called upon to make their second goal-line stand late in the second quarter. That common pigskin disease, "Fumblitis," had engulfed the playing field by this time and very few players, on both sides, could be considered immune once they had an opportunity to carry the ball. After an exchange of fumbles early in the second period, Notre Dame drove to the Illinois 22-yard line before being halted, and neither team threatened any more until the Illini recovered a Colella fumble on a punt return and took over on the Irish 42. Eight plays later the out-of-staters had a first down on the six-yard mark, but the hard-charging Notre Dame line held for downs on the four, and the first half ended with the Irish still in the lead. 
The "fumblin' fits" continued in the third stanza and succeeded in stopping both teams from gaining much headway until the closing minutes of the quarter. Bill Gompers, sub halfback, fum-
Baltimore Sun— 
"Phil Colella, a Navy Veteran of South Pacific action, streaked 76 yards for a touchdown on the game's first running play to usher in Notre Dame's football season with a 7-0 triumph over Illinois today. 
Colella takes a 47 yard pass from Dancewicz as Illini men. Bukovich and Zimmerman stand, and falL nearby. 
bled Butkovitch's short punt and Illinois recovered on the Notre 
. Dame 39-yard line to set up threat number three. Folloivii^ a 1% yard penalty, which set them back to their own 46-yard line, the Illini struck by air. Butkovich faded back and Sipped a Img spiral to Heiss, who ran to the Irish 8 before Dancewicz knodced hhn out of bounds. But again the Irish line proved superior, stoppoig the drive on the four-yard line and taking over on downs eady in the final quarter. 
Dancewicz punted out of the end zone to Starics, who returned to the Notre Dame 29-yard line and the Irish had to repeat thenr three previous stellar performances to protect their lead. In four plays the Illini were on the eight-yard line with first down and goal to go. And once more the green-shirted line rose up and stopped the threap taking over on its own one-yard line after four more drives by the Orange and Blue. 
Thus the curtain dropped on the fourth act of the brilliant defensive duel between a young, never-say-die Notre Dame team and an equally valiant Illinois squad, as the Irish opened that first post-war grid season successfully.—John C. Thomas 


Notre Dame 40; Georgia Tech 7 
Notre Dame had appreciated Georgia Tech's southern hospi­tality to the extent of a 40 to 7 victory in Atlanta, October 6. It was a matter of too much size and speed on the part of the Irish for the young but spirited Engineers to cope with. Tech scored first and for a short time in the first quarter it looked like a close tussle. Then the Irish backs swung.into action that ended only v/ith the final gun. 
Displaying trickery for which southern teams are noted, Tech scored early on a hidden ball play with Ed Holtsinger whipping across to thrill the partisan crowd of 35,000. Kyker booted the extr* point and Tech led 7 to 0. That score was just enough to rile up the Irish gander, so Frank Dancewicz tossed a pass to Phil Colella for a touchdown before the opening period ended. Krivik drop-kicked the first of his four extra point conversions of the day to tie the score. 
The second period was just well on its way when Notre Dame struck again. Colella and Frank Ruggerio teamed up along the ground while Dancewicz included a pass to Skoglund to carry deep into Tech territory. Elmer Angsman chipped in with a first down on the 19 and then the Chicago boy blasted the rest of the way into the end zone. Krivik again converted. Joe Gasparella passed to Bill Zehler for 54 yards and a touchdown in the waning moments of the first half to make the intermission count 21 to 7 for Notre Dame. 
Tech held the Irish on the first series of downs in the second half and then started a little drive of their own. Peek and Mat­thews led the way in the march that ended on the Notre Dame 20, when Terry Brennan intercepted a pass by Holtsinger and gal­loped 42 yards before Matthews tagged him on the Tech 33. The Irish drove from this point with Angsman going over. Krivik made his last conversion. 
The Hamburger squad went into action in the final quarter as Tech's outmanned but fighting crew gradually was worn to a fraz­zle. Late in the quarter, Johnny Agnone and Emil Slovak each added a touchdown to run the final score up to 40. 
George Matthews, Tech's speedy halfback, was the game's leading ground gainer with 98 yards, closely followed by Phil Colella with 93. Captain Paul Duke and end Walt Kilzer were outstanding for Georgia Tech while Notre Dame's veterans, Dancewicz, Angsman, and Bob Skoglund led the Indiana boys through the game. 
Notre Dame tallied 15 first downs to 10 by Tech. The Irish rushing game was good for 295 yards while the Rambling Wreck chugged along for 159. Notre Dame also held a decided edge in the aerial game, gaining 101 yards to 72 for Tech. 
An interesting fact was provided by the game statistician in that the two teams traveled exactly 1,000 yards counting runs, passes, and all kick returns. Of the even grand, Notre Dame accounted for 560 and Tech 440. 
Coach and Captain—^Boley, rated one of the nation's top defensive backs, learned from the master. His vicious tackling that nailed many an opposing back who broke into the secondary is o reflection of Coach Devore's great defensive work as an end on the 1933 team. 
The Atlanta Journal—Ed Danforth 
"Some boys went to do a man's job Saturday in Grant Field Avith the tra­ditional result. 
"Georgia Tech's well-organized, sharp­ly geared football force lost to a bigger, faster, taller team from Notre Dame, 40-7, and I do mean taller. Superior height, supposedly a basketball asset, became the hazard the undei*-sized En­gineers could not clear as 35,000 people saw." 
Ten 

Notre Dame 34; Dartmouth 0 
The Irish were oflF to a dazzling start on Saturday, October 13, when on the very first play from scrimmage Phil Colella, fleet freshman halfback, took Capt. Frank Dancewicz's 50-yard, bullet-like pass and scampered over the goal for the first score against the outmanned Dartmouth Indians. There was no let-up for the hapless Indians, as a squad of 53 blue-and-gold "Irishmen" paraded up and down the field before some 45,000 enthusiastic fans to end the game, Notre Dame 34, Dartmouth 0. 
A quick glance at the statistics, and one can see that the score might well have been double, for Devore's men picked up 19 first downs to the Green Wave's 7; netting 334 yards from scrimmage by rushing as against 90, and 84 big yards by passing as com­pared to 19. Devote put the lid on the Notre Dame passing secrets early in the game, and Notre Dame spent the last three-quarters running through a large assortment of ground plays. 
Following Colella's first-play touchdown, the game settled down until late in the same period when end Bob Skoglund took a Dancewicz pass on the Dartmouth 4 and went over standing up to make -the score 13-0. A low pass from center spoiled Stan Krivik's chances to make it two in a row. 
United Press— 

"Notre Dame, after establishing over­whelming superiority with its "varsity" iV: in the first quarter of the game, used its second, third, and fourth teams the i-est of the way to steamroller Dart­mouth 34-0 today for the Irish's third consecutive victory." 
Midway in the second quarter, third string halfback, "Zip" Zehler, raced 24 yards for touchdown number 3. Krtvik came m to make the score 20-0 at half time. Soon after the third period opened, fullback Stan Krivik plowed through center to pay-dirt from the Indians' 3. He then added the extra point with a drop­kick, making the score 27-0. 
The Notre Dame backfield men of the 4th quarter were Tri­pucka, Gompers, Agnone, Slovak, Heman, Raba and Yonto, hard-driving speedsters from the 4th and 5th strings. As the final quarter rolled to a close, Jim Yonto, fullback, pushed over from the 2, and Bob Skoglund took his own blocked place Idck and ran in for the e.xtra point to end the day's scoring at 34-0. 
This third straight win for the Irish added a lot of experi­ence to previously untried linemen, and each line that Coach De­vote could send onto the field was able to hold its own and often stopped the Dartmouth backs far behind the line of scrimmage. Thus far in the season, Notre Dame had piled up a total of 81 points, as against 7 for the three opponents.—John Gunthtr 
}:ms^^ :. 

i&i3Pfea«i^S»feiS 
Swanson of Dartmouth looks for an open field against Irish as Panelli, Stanzyk, and Kurzynske move in for the tackle. 
Eleven 

Notre Dame 39; Pittsburgh 9 
• Held to but two touchdowns in the first half by a courageous but inexperienced Pittsburgh Panther eleven, the Notre Dame team rallied in the second half to annex its fourth straight win of the season by a 39 to 9 score. The game played in Pittsburgh Stadium attracted a crowd of 65,000 who were stunned as the underdog home squad battled on even terms with the visitors for thirty minutes. 
Clark Shaughnessy, Pittsburgh coach, had been predicting for almost a month that his team would surprise the sporting world by defeating the "Fighting Irish" and it appeared that he might have been right as Notre Dame pushed over but one touchdown in the first period. Pittsburgh outplayed Notre Dame in the second period but the Irish came up with a touchdown on the last play of the first half to take a 12 to 2 lead at the intermission. In the second half it was all Notre Dame except for Pittsburgh's lone touchdown in the waning minutes. 
Notre Dame's first score was a result of a fumble by Pitt's Ed Zimmovan on the first play that Pittsburgh had the ball. Notre Dame took over on the 23-yard line and on the first play Phil Colella ran for the touchc^own. The play was called back, how­ever, but two plays later Frank Dancewicz pitched a pass to Col­ella on the one-yard line, whence Frank Ruggerio went over for the touchdown. 
Pittsburgh monopolized the play for almost the remainder of the first half. They entered the scoring column with two points as a result of a safety when Notre Dame's Terry Brennan was tackled in his end zone. Pitt made but one real touchdown threat of their own, but this was halted on Notre Dame's 17-yard line. On the last play of the second canto, Dancewicz passed to fresh­man Bill Leonard in the end zone for the second touchdown. The attempt for the extra point again failed and N . D. led, 12 to 2, at half-time. 
Notre Dame started off the third quarter with a rush but this advance was halted when Pitt intercepted a Dancewicz aerial. Notre Dame soon gained possession of the ball once again and scored when Elmer Angsman nabbed a flat pass from Dancewicz and raced 20 yards to pay dirt. Stan Krivik made his dropkick good for the 19th point for Notre Dame. The third quarter ended with Notre Dame on the long end of the 19 to 2 score. 
The score started to mount in the fourth quarter as the Pitts­burgh defenses began to falter. After one minute of this session, Angsman scored his second touchdown of the day on a line buck. John Panelli accounted for the fifth U.N.D. six-pointer when he burst through the middle from the 19-yard line. Krivik made his second point of the day when his dropkick again split the up­rights. Ernie Virok intercepted a Pittsburgh pass and dashed 40 yards for a score for Notre Dame's last touchdown of the day. Krivik again came in and raised his average for the day in extra poiiit attempts to .500 and Notre Dame's score to 39. 
Pittsburgh's only touchdown was in the closing minutes on a pass that covered a total of 50 yards. Jack Smodic was on the throwing end of the play with Herb Douglass receiv­ing. Francis Mattioli converted for Pittsburgh from placement to complete the scoring for the day.—Jim Regan 
Boston Sunday Post—^Associated Press 
"Fought virtually to a standstill for two periods by a heated-up Pitsburgh eleven, Notre Dame proved its class by pounding across four touchdowns in the second half and winning going away, 39-9, before a packed crowd of 65,000 in Pitt Stadium today." 
Phil Colella — The hometown crowd 
gave Phil a big welcome in the Smoky City and he responded with some great football. 
1 V e 



Notre Dame 56; Iowa 0 
In trouncing the hapless Hawkeyes of Iowa 56 to 0, Notre Dame ran its victory string to eight games—the fifth of this sea­son—before a home crowd of 52,000 on a beautiful Indian sum­mer afternoon. Despite the fact that Coach Hugh Devore cleared the bench of subs by using all the 56 men he had in uniform, the boys from 'neath the Golden Dome just couldn't stop scoring. During the first half the Fighting Irish first-stringers were in action a mere 11 minutes, and heaved only one pass—that one incom­plete—and the only Irish pass of the whole game. The Irish were not "laying it on." 
The Hawkeyes were not only unable to prevent the parade of Kelly-green jerseyed backs from scoring touchdown after touch­down, but were also completely powerless offensively in the face of N.D.'s hard-charging forward wall and netted only 49 yards and two first downs from scrimmage, while the Irish were amass­ing a total of 367 yards and 14 first downs. Devore was very reluc­tant to display his formidable passing attack, along with his more intricate plays, assuming that hostile eyes were scouting his boys for the all-important Navy encounter the following Saturday. 
The game was barely four minutes old when Frank Ruggerio drew the first blood of the massacre by driving over left guard for a T D on the third play after Dick Cronin recovered an Iowa fumble on the Hawkeye 19-yard line. Drop-kicker Krivik rang up the extra point. Elmer Angsman was the next to hit paydirt on another plunge after Capt. Frank Dancewicz had set up the touch­down by returning a punt to the Iowa 27-yard line. Three plays after the following kickoff Phil Colella intercepted a Hawkeye pass and the Rochester, Pa., speedster went 38 yards for a touch­down. Stan Krivik made it three in a row. 
That was the cue for the understudies to take over and they, not to be outdone, picked up where the starting eleven left off by scoring three times in the second quarter with Bill Gompers, John Agnone, and Emil Slovak registering six-pointers in that order. Of the three, Agnone's 23-yard jaunt was the lot^est; he set the stage himself when he intercepted a pass on the Iowa 30­yard line. At half-time the board read 41-0, Notre Dame. A Naval demonstration during the intermission was highlighted by a squadron of planes flying over the stadium. 
Four minutes after the second-half kickoff Notre Dame tallied again when end Phil O'Connor nailed Niles for a safety in back of the goal as he attempted a surprise pass which failed to fool Phil. From there on out the touchdown-manufacturing machine coasted along, scoring once more in the third quarter and again in the fourth. Joe Yonto, Ruggetio's sub, "was the man" in the third when he scooted around right end for 30 yards and a TD . In the fourth and final, Leo Traney jumped on the bandwagon by reeling off beautiful 51 and 18 yard jaunts, the last resulting in a score. It was the seventh T D of the game, and Traney was the seventh Irish back to score during the afternoon.—Peter F. Pesoli 
Associated Press— 
"The Ramblers of Notre Dame, ap­parently gaining strength week by week, rambled over helpless Iowa today, 56-0, despite the fact Coach Hugh Devore put every available player into the game. 
"Devore used his first string but 11 minutes of the first half, and only one pass was tossed—^that was incomplete— as the Fighting Irish blasted their way through the Iowa line for one touch­down after another." 

A Hawkeye pass goes astray as John Agnone darts in for an interception. George Ratterman is Irish player in background. 
Thirteen 


Notre Dame 6; Navy 6 
Notre Dame and Navy met in Cleveland's Municipal Stadi­um, November 2, before a throng of 82,000 rabid football fans. Both teams entered the game undefeated and left, after 60 min­utes of spine-tingling football, with the same status. After the Irish had rolled over the Middies throughout the first half to lead 6 to 0, Clyde 'Smackover" Scott intercepted a Notre Dame pass in the third quarter and ran to a touchdown that left the game in a 6 to 6 deadlock. Behind that score lies football drama. 
The play that will be a topic of football conversation for many 
years occurred in the final minute of play when Captain Frank 
Dancewicz passed to Phil Colella near the Navy goal line. The 
Rochester, Pennsylvania, freshman drove for the goal but as he did 
so, Tony Minisi of Navy grabbed him around the neck, hurtling 
him out of bounds six inches shy of the game-winning touchdown. 
Colella's feet got into the end zone but the ball didn't. Notre 
Dame had time for two tries for a touchdown but both failed as 
the gun sounded ending the game. Most observers agreed with the officials that Colella did not score but there are those, too, who are certain he did. The game is over, the score permanently tied, but the discussion will go on. 
Despite the ultimate-thrilling final minute of the game, the first 59 were anything but dull. The Irish took the opening kick­off and drove deep into Navy territory after a first play pass from Dancewicz to Bob Skoglund clicked for 43 yards. But Navy stif­fened and turned back the Irish surge. Late in the opening period, Frank Ruggerio intercepted a Navy pass, carrying it back to the Navy 34. Ruggerio and Elmer Angsman drove to the 11 and Colella went to the 5 from which point Ruggerio smashed through for the touchdown. Stan Krivik's try for point was blocked. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate play for the remainder of the game save for the moment when Scott raced off with that intercepted pass to give Navy its only tally of the day. Notre Dame's line played valiant, determined ball all afternoon, stop­ping Navy second-half drives deep in their own territory several times. Prior to Notre Dame'^ final thrust that nearly won the game, Dancewicz and Colella succeeded in grounding four straight Navy passes to take the ball on downs on their 40. 
George Ratterman came in for Dancewicz only to be thrown for a 12-yard loss by Dick Scott, Navy center. Ratterman then went back to pass again, this time cormecting with Bill Leonard who had outraced the Middies' secondary. Leonard, handicapped by a leg injury, was caught from behind on the Navy 18 after a gain of 54 yards on the play. The next play was the Dancewicz to Colella pass. The rest of the game is now history. 
Navy wouldn't be beaten but it was Notre Dame's game froni every angle save the score. The Irish ran up 12 first downs to 8 for the midshipmen, rushed for 146 yards and passed for 116 while Navy had a net rushing gain of 34 yards, and passing 55. This was the one Notre Dame wanted to win—and almost did. The Fighting Irish lived up to their name in every sense of the word.—Paul Weyrauch 
Cleveland Plain Dealer—^John Dietrich 
"No decision. Bruised and scarred, but still unbeaten, Notre Dame and Navy fought a 6-6 tie before 80,506 uproarious fans yesterday in Cleveland Stadium. 
"In a struggle filled with valiant ral­lies, with the Fighting Irish holding the ball Inches from the goal line in a dra­matic finish, the old rivals waged their first deadlock in 19 games." 

Elmer Angsman gets away iot a good gain against Navy in Cleveland. Left to right. Kelly. Scott, Hoemschmeyer, of Navy, and Angsman. 
Fourteen 
Notre Dame 0; Army 48 
It was a gray and gloomy day in the Bronx on November 10. Threatening skies were overhead, and a huge tarpaulin covered the gridiron below in Yankee Stadium. Yet 75,000 of New York's celebrated subway alumni and mixed partisans from points north, west and south occupied every available seat of the spacious arena. They were ail there for a common purpose—to see what the grid­ders of Notre Dame could do in the way of avenging the stinging 59-0 blow dealt them by the golden-helmeted juggernaut from the plains of West Point. Few experts anywhere conceded Notre Dame victory; the Pointers were at least a four-touchdown favor-ire. Army was bidding for its 16th consecutive victory over a span of two years. Before coming up to the Notre Dame game, it had run roughshod over all comers— P. D. C. (Ky.), Wake Forest, Duke, Melville Navy, Michigan, and Villanova. 
As the 75,000 spectators filed out of the stadium that after­noon, they were convinced that here was an Army team which was no fluke, having just witnessed them, combine air and ground maneuvers to blitzkrieg a plucky and stubborn Notre Dame eleven, 48 to 0, for their seventh victory of the 32 meetings between the two schools. The Irish, only the week previous, had thoroughly outplayed Navy at Cleveland, but had to settle for a bitter 6-6 tie. Consequently, we were not at top strength, the Navy game having taken its toll in injuries. Ruggerio received a gash on his chin requiring 13 stitches, but played briefly in the Army game, using a mask for protection. Colella and Angsman, too were injured in that hotly disputed Navy game, yet both started the Army game. But the Cadets from up the Hudson were distinctly the superior team. It was the old story of Felix (Doc) Blanchard and Glenn Davis, the Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside of the West Point attack. They did everything and they seemed to be taking turns doing it. And when it wasn't Blanchard and Davis, it would be Shorty McWilliams, Arnold Tucker, or Stuart—all less publicized but very effective backs. 
The game was only a minute old when Elmer Angsman fum­bled on the third play after the opening kick-off. Army recovered on the Notre Dame 30 yard line and after Blanchard picked up three on a plunge, Davis, the elk-like Califomian, sped 27 yards off tackle for Army's first score. Dick Walterhouse converted and the touchdown parade was on. The Irish fouaht back gallantly after Army's initial tally, as it always does when the opponent 
New York Times—Allison Danzig 
"For the first twenty minutes there was the prospect of a characteristically close, bitter fight and the 75,000 who filled the Stadium to the last seat, mar­veled at the contempt with which the Fighting' Irish tore into the scourge of the gridiron, both offensively, and de­fensively." 
scores first. In successive order Ru^erio and Colella charged for first downs. Then Angsman, N.D.'s leading ground gainer fcMr the season, ripped 20 yards ofF-tackle, bringing Irish rooters to their feet. But Army, as they proved all afternoon whenever the Devote Boys neared the pay-oflF stripe, would dig in as if to say, "That's all, brother!" 
The only other real Notre Dame opportunity for a score came late in the third period. Dancewicz had engineered a successful, sustained drive down to the Army one foot line. Gompsrs, trying for the T D ofl-tackle, fumbled and before anyone knew what happened Stuart had recovered the fumble before it hit the ground and raced it back to the Army 27 yard line where he was tackled by Boley Dancewicz. Incidentally "tackled by Dancewicz" was a familiar sound on the public address system ail afternoon. Time and again he brought down Blanchard and Davis in the open field to prevent scores. Other defensive stars were Johnny^ Mastrangelo, Dick Cronin, Terry Brennan, and Bob ^oglund, who left a couple of molars on the Yankee Stadium Vjxi, tackling Blanchard. For the Cadets, Tucker, particularly, was a hawk on pass defense, coming out of nowhere to bat down sure clicking passes out of the waiting clutches of Phil Colella, Bob Scogluhd, and Billy Leonard. 
There will be a day of reckoning for Army on the gridirtm and every Notre Dame man will want to see it. For the present however, we'll string along with the words of Captain Boley Dancewicz when he addressed the entire student body who had come to Union Station to greet the squad on its return: "They're the greatest team I ever played against. They had Class." 
—Dave Warner 

Frank Dancewicz — Stellar defensive play by Captain Dancewicz was a highlight of the game 
for Notre Dame. 
Fifteen 

Notre Dame 34; Northwestern 7 
Playing before a sellout crowd of 49,500 in Dyche stadium, Evanston, on Nov. 17, Notre Dame rebounded brilliantly from tlie trouncing handed it a week previously by Army, and downed decisively a highly respected Northwestern team. Rated as the upset specialists of the Big Nine by virtue of their conquest of Purdue and early season deadlock with Indiana, the Wildcats sbsoriied the worst defeat of their Notre Dame rivalry. To their large student attendance the Irish gave cause for gleeful delight as they leveled Northwestem's superbly organized ground and air attacL Unable to withstand the steady barrage of Notre Dame backs, and equally unable to crack the Irish forward wall, Northwestern took to the air in the final quarter and scored. 
Devore's eleven, after repelling the powered thrusts of its host early in the game, went on to score in every quarter, crossing the line twice in the final period. Frank Leahy, recently discharged from the Navy after two year's service as Lieut. Commander, watched from the pressbox, with interest and pleasure, as the Irish performed. With Leahy's return came the departure of Notre Dame's regular right end for the past two seasons. Bob Skoglund. This was Skoglund's final appearance before leaving for active duty in the Navy. 
Northwestern took the opening kickoff and ripped and rended their way 48 yards down the field before losing the ball on downs. Immediately after, they again struck deep into Notre Dame terri­tory only to be stopped by Capt. Frank Dancewicz's pass inter­ception. 
Midway in the first period the Irish broke the scoring ice, moving from their own 10 for the tally. Elmer Angsman, continu­ing his role as No. 1 ground gainer, featured the drive with a 50­yard sprint to the 10 yard line. There Terry Brennan plowed to the 1 and Angsman took it over. Krivik's educated toe gave Notre Dame a seven point lead. 
Early in the second period, after capitalizing on a fumble and scoring their second touchdown, the Irish found themselves with their backs to the wall, as the Wildcats advanced the ball to the six inch line. Devore's front line, however, found the N.U. backs easy pickings after the ravages of Blanchard and Davis the week before, and held for downs. 
Opening the second half. Northwestern punted to the N.D . 44, where the Irish began their third touchdown drive. Sparked by Angsman and hard hitting Floyd Simmons, a recent transfer from St. Mary's Pre-Hight, they belted their way to the North­western 4. Simmons went over standing up; Krivik split the uprights for the third time, making it 21-0. 
Getting the final quarter under way, George Ratterman, pass­ing from the Wildcat's 29 yard line, completed one to Bill Leon­ard who lateraled to Angsman for an apparent score. The ofiicials, however, ruled it a forward pass; this nullified the score and gave Northwestern possession. 
A minute or so later Bill Gompers, playing the outstanding game of his Notre Dame career, plucked a Wildcat pass from the air and raced 32 yards down the sidelines for the tally. 
Taking to the air in desperation, Northwestern, with Clayton Farrar doing some fine pitching, completed mree passes that put. them on the Notre Dame four. After two running plays failed, Hap Murphey took a lateral from Farrar and skirted right end to score for the home team. Conners added the extra point from placement. 
Bouncing back Notre Dame took the kickoflF and after Bob Van Sumner and Gompers had moved the ball to the opposing 48 yard stripe, George Ratterman, on a beautifully executed pass, connected with Gompers on the ten yard line. The husky halfback carried a Wildcat tackier into the end zone with him. Krivik's dropkick ended the scoring at 34^7.—Dick D'tetz 
South Bend Tribune—Jim Costin 
"Stunned by an early Northwestern drive that all but swept them out of the park, Hughie Devore's youthful band of Notre Dame football players lived up to all the traditions of 'The Fighting Irish' here this afternoon and roared back to hand Lynn Waldorf's equally youthful Northwestern Wildcats a stun­ning 34-7 defeat before 49,500 pop-eyed fans, the largest crowd ever to see a game in Dyche Stadium." 
Ccanera stops Terry Brennan in middle of nin agcdnst Wildcats. Notre Dame men in background are Dancewicz, Berezney. and Skoglund. 
^ Sixteen 

Notre Dame 32; Tulane 6 
Throughout the entire first half of Saturday's sectional encounter with the Green Wave of Tulane, it seemed that the Fighting Irbh were fated to be just another of the legendary "victims of the Bayous." Notre Dame had invaded Louisiana and New Orleans for the first time, and the capacity crowd of 63,000 rabid Southern fans, who paid homage to the heralded Irish from the North, witnessed an unexpected burst of offensive power that carried a 6-0 Tulane lead well into the third quarter. 
The lone Tulane touchdown drive was given an emphatic start when they returned the opening kickoff to their own 32-yard line. A series of line plays extended to the Notre Dame 42, where the Irish defense stiffened. Tulane took to the air, and completed successive passes to the Notre Dame 8. Another attempted pass in the end zone was ruled complete through interference by Terry Brerman* Wih the ball on the 1-yard line, Tulane pushed over two plays later. Mastrangelo blocked the extra-point attempt. The remainder of the first half was dominated by the Irish, who made repeated forays into Tulane territory as deep as the 20-yard line. All, however, proved ineffective beyond that point, and Tulane fans gave vent to their exuberation as the highly-favored Irish team retired to the lockers on the short end of a 6-0 score. 
Whether Coach Devore convinced his charges during the inter­im period that southern hospitality requires no reciprocation isn't known. It was evident, however, that the Irish had snapped out of their lethargy when Brennan, after an exchange of punts, dashed 30 yards to the Tulane 47. On the following play, Terry bettered himself with a 52-yard jaunt around his own right end for the first Irish score. Mastrangelo, Ruggerio, and Berezny provided effective blocking en route. Stan Krivik dropkicked the extra poin^ and the Irish had finally plotted a course. 
After a Notre Dame drive that failed on the Tulane 1, the subsequent Tulane punt was taken by Colella on the Tulane 45 and returned to the 20. E>ancewicz's 11-yard pass to Bill Leonard, and line smashes by Colella and Angsman soon netted another score. Krivik failed to convert, and more conservative Irish fans hoped for another touchdown as their ounce of prevention. They hadn't long to wait. Early in the fourth quarter the first of three Notre Dame touchdowns was scored when Fred Rovai recovered a Tulane fumble on the Wave 44. Vicious line smashing by John Panelli and two passes by George Rattennan, the second to Bren­nan in the end zone, scored the third touchdo%vn. Krivik again failed to convert, but the two-touchdown lead provided a cranfort­able margin, and the tension that seemed to permeate the stadium all afternoon was lifted. Minutes later, Angsman, Brennan, Panel­li and McCain combined their versatility in a sustained drive ^ m their own 16-yard marker for an additional score. Krivik's kick halved the uprights and the score stood at 26-6 with few minutes remaining in the game. 
Irish substitutes supplemented the widening margin with a last minute drive from the Tulane 40. George Tripudca, freshman quarterback, passed to Johnny Agnone in the end zone in the waning seconds for the touchdown that spelled a conclusive iinis to the afternoon's struggle.—Roger Cahaney 
Chicago Tribune—^Arch Ward 
"Tulane, victorious in only two of its eight games this season, threatened for 30 minutes today to contribute one of the major upsets of the intercollegiate foot­ball season. Then it cracked under its opponents' i-elentless pressure and Notre Dame won, 32-6." 
John Mastrangelo — John hixthered his All-American progress by his outstanding defensive ploy against the Green Wave. 
Seventeen 

Notre Dame 7; Great Lakes 39 
A game band of Fighting Irish, living up to their name, came to the end of the long 1945 football trail, December 1, on Ross Field, Great Lakes, Illinois, where they were completely subdued by a highly keyed and determined Bluejacket eleven, 39 to 7. With Hugh Devore serving as coach for the last time, Notre Dame wanted to win this game but so did Great Lakes, playing their last major football game. While the Navy combination rolled over die Irish with power to bum, Notre Dame did not stop fight­ing once. The team showed the effects of the long, hard schedule for they had the will to win but nothing with which to motivate diat desire. 
Great Lakes wasted litde time in showing the shivering, nauti­cal crowd of 23,000 that this was the Navy's day. Frank Aschen­brenner took the kickoff on his 16 yard line and darted 55 yards to the Irish 29 yard line before being forced out of bounds. Klem­mer made it a first down on the 17 in two thrusts at the line and then took a pass from George Terlep for seven more yards. Marion Motley, sensational negro fullback, hit the N.D. line three times, crossing the goal on the last try. The extra point attempt failed and the Lakes led 6 to 0. 
Notre Dame drove to the Bluejacket 30. after the ensuing kickoff but their attack stalled at that point. Not until Frank Ru^erio recovered a fumble on the Great Lakes 20 early in the second quarter did Notre Dame have a scoring chance. Terry Brennan hit for two and Frank Dancewicz passed to Dick Cron'n on the 6 yard line. Ruggerio and Elmer Angsman went to the two foot line and Ruggerio smashed over. Stan Krivik dropkicked the extra point and the Irish led, 7 to 6. That lead was short lived as Great Lakes marched straight downfield for another score as soon as they received the ball. Terlep scored and Dick Ratcliffe con­verted to put the Sailors ahead, 13 to 7, a lead they never relin­quished. 
While neither team scored in the third quarter, Gerat Lakes showed the greater offensive power, moving from their own 20 to the Irish 31 as the quarter ended. On the second play of the final period. Motley drove to the Notre Dame 7. Two penalties set the Lakes back but Aschenbrenner skirted left end from the 11 to score. The conversion was wide but Great Lakes led 19 to 7. For the remainder of the game it was a matter of how high the score would be. Every attempt to pass or nm was thwarted by the hard charging Great Lakes forward wall, led by Notre Dame's own Marty Wendell, now a Bluejacket. 
Motley escaped the grasping arms of five Notre Dame tacklers on a 44 yard T.D. jaunt. After one Great Lakes drive was halted, the Bluejackets bounced back after a pass interception to go for another score. Another ex-Notre Dame combination, Terlep and Bill O'Connor, registered the score on a pass play. That one made the scoreboard read Great Lakes 32, Notre Dame 7, with only a few minutes remaining in the game. On the first Irish play after returning the kickoff, fleet-footed Dick Ottele of the Lakes inter­cepted a Notre Dame pass and scooted 40 yards for the final tally. Sullivan converted to make it 39 to 7. 
In the face of defeat Notre Dame was not without individual brilliance, as John Mastrangelo starred on defense, while new­comers Bob Van Sumner and Floyd Simmons looked good on offense. The entire team was brilliant in its relentless fight but that spirit did not pay off on the bleak December day. 
Des Moines Register—Bert McGrane 
"The whole Great Lakes football arse­nal exploded in the face of Notre Dame Saturday, the violent eruption blowing the Irish to bits in a cyclonic 39-7 upset. 
"Notre Dame was smashed, smothered, routed. From the opening play, the Blue­jackets fairly tore the Irish to shreds as their roaring line rolled back Notre Dame and their bruising backs ran over the favored visitors. 
"The Irish never stopped trying, but the pressure on them was so overpower­ing that they couldn't do a thing about it." 
Elmer Angsmcm — He ended the season as the team's leading scorer ond groimd gainer. 
Eighteen 
MONOGUAM WINNERS 

Elmer Angsman Jim McGurk 
John Agnone John Panelli Pete Berezney Tom Potter Terry Brennan Steve Oracko Al Burnett George Katterman 
Phil Colella Fred Eovai. 
Dick Cronin Frank Ruggerio Oswald Clariv Bruno Opela Frank Dancewicz Phil O'Connor John Fallon Willmer Russell Ed Fay Vince Scott 
Bill Fischer Bob Skoglund 
Bill Flynn Bob Van Sumner Joe Gasparella Enul Slovak Bill Gompers Jack Vainisi John Glaab Ernie Virok 
Walt Grothaus Bill Walsh 
Stan Krivik Bill Zehler Bill Leonard John Graif, Mgr. John Mastrangelo Jim Molidor, Mgr. Ed Mieszkowski Ted Rademacher, Mgr. 
* Subject to approval of Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
Individual Statistics for the 1945 Season 
Players  TD  PAT  PTS  TC  NYG  Avg.  PA  PC  I  NYG  
Angsman  7  0  42  87  616  7.0  0  0  0  0  
Agnone  3  0  18  22  131  6.2  0  0  0  0  
Brennan  2  0  12  57  252  4.4  1  0  1  0  
Colella  4  0  24  63  317  5.0  0  0  0  0  
Dancewicz  0. 0  0  12  12  1.0  88  32  5  539  
Earley  0  1  1  1  3  3.0  0  0  0  0  
Gasparella  0  0  0  2  10  5.0  4  1  0  50  
Gompers  . - 3  0  18  36  185  5.1  0  0  0  0  
Heman  0  0  0  3  3  1.0  0  0  0  0  
Krivik  1  23  29  9  39  4.8  0  0  0  0  
Leonard  1  0  6  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
McGee  0  0  0  3  29  9.8  0  0  0  0  
McGurk  1  0  6  11  29  2.5  0  0  0  0  
Panelli  2  0  12  18  115  6.3  0  0  0  0  
Potter  0  0  0  2  6  3.0  0  0  0  0  
Ratterman  0  0  0  8  8  1.0  30  9  5  203  
Ruggerio  4  0  24  79  279  3.5  0  0  0  0  
Simmons  '.  1  0  6  14  42  3.0  0  0  0  0  
Slovak  2  0  12  24  92  4.0  0  0  0  0  
Skoglund  1  1  7  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Tripucka  0  0  0  2  8  4.0  1  1  0  21  
TraneyVan Sumner  1 0 0  0  60  47  37 13  9.2 1.8  0 0  0 0  0 0  0 0  
Virok  1  0  6  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Yonto  2  0  12  13  53  4.4  0  0  0  0  
Zehler  „  2  0  12  15  122  8.1  0  0  0  0  
Safety  (Iowa)  2  

38 25 255 492 2401 4.8 124 43 11 813 KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS: TD—Touchdowns. PAT—Points After Touchdowns. PTS—Points. TC—^Times 
Carried. NYG—^Net Yards Gained. Avg.—Average. PA—Passes Attempted. PC—Passes Completed. I—^Intercepted. 
Nineteen 

The Spirit of Notre Dame 
Noti-e Dame spirit! You've all heard about it. You've read about it in every spoils column throughout the Nation. You turn your radio dial to a sports pio­gi-am and if the commentator mentions Notre Dame it is quite possible that its school spirit will be the natural follow­up. If you're a student on the campus of Our Lady, then no explanation is necessary; but if your only connections with Notre Dame are made via radio and the local newspaper, then you might ap­preciate a little elaboration. 
"How to have school spirit" is not taught at Notre Dame. It is derived from a tradition which is nearly 104 years old—a tradition which consists of guts and grim determination, honesty and sacrifice, on and off the football neld, in the classroom and in the hall. Yes, school spirit is very easily attained. When you first set foot on campus soil and raise your eyes dome-ward you feel it, but you don't realize it yet. You usu­ally wait until the night of your first pep rally in the fieldhouse. 
You're up in your room conscientouslj studying when the strains of the "Vic­tory March" suddenly interrupt your solitude. Being possessed of a certain amount of curiosity, you investigate and soon find yourself parading around the campus, along with a few hundred other guj's, singing your foolish head off and yelling at the top of your lungs. At this moment you'll find yourself quite sus­ceptible to a very common college dis­ease called "spirititus." 
Your next procedure takes place in the fieldhouse. The scene is set. The team and the coaches walk in and the crowd cuts loose A\'ith a mighty cheer. Then the school song rings out once again, followed by the usual yells and "balcony oratories," which are usually the hit of the evening's performance. By now you are beginning to wonder if you are go­ing to have any vocal energy left at game time tomorrow, but this is a very remote cause for worry. After the rally is over you trudge back to the hall feel­ing pretty good. You've just got your first taste of Notre Dame spirit. 
The next morning it's everybody up. Mass and Communion for the team. No, you don't have to go, but usually every-
Pep Rally in Fieldhouse 
tody does. After all, it's a very small sacrifice to make compared to playing 60 minutes of college football. This is a weekly tradition at Notre Dame during the entire pigskin season. After a couple of Saturday morning masses followed by an equal number of Blue and Gold vic­tories, you've got yourself believing that the luck of the Irish depends on you. You can't afford to miss Mass. 
The kickoff! And here is where you first come into contact with the cheer leadei-s—Rudy Lopez, Herb Lee, Bill Kelley, Bob Vosberg, Dan Gallivan, Joe Garbarini, Marshall Rabillio, Doug Van Hemert, and Bob Brown—nine "sparks" who keep the "fire of spirit" roaring. Never a dull moment at the game as long as these boys are able to move. Plenty of acrobatics and a touch of com­edy here and there are their specialties. Autograph hounds are a little thick at times, quoting Herbie Lee, the wallflower of the Dartmouth game. Clashmore Mike, the Irish mascot, does his part too. Mike, the hurdle champion of the University, is one of the feature attractions at every home game. Nor can we forget the brilli­ant half-time performances of the Notre Dame Band, which is an aggregation hard to beat. Yes, they all do their part to help bolster school spirit. 
Of course, not all games are played at home and there are many Saturdays when you set up your own private grand­stand, composed of anything from an easy chair to the wash basin, for you and the gang in your own room. And you wait anxiously for the yells that echo throughout the hall each time the Irish score. 
Another red-letter day which typifies Notre Dame spirit is the Monday follow­ing the Army game each year. This is the day when the entire student body visits nearby South Bend, ending up at Union Terminal to meet the football team. Win or lose, rain or shine, it's al­ways the same. When the New York train pulls into the station, the cheer­leaders clear the way and escort the team into the center of a huge circle of students waiting in the terminal lobby. Cheers and singing break forth followed by short talks by each member of the team and the coaching staff. Then back to school and morning classes, the team by waiting taxis and the students by foot—a three-mile hike—led by the Band and the yell leaders. You really enjoy blocking traffic on biisy Michigan Street once a year. 
These are just a few examples of school spirit at Notre Dame. This spirit has played a Adtal part in Notre Dame history and will continue to do so in the future. Its magnetic power has proved to be very great, judging by the nation­wide list of Irish boosters. For without this spirit, Notre Dame wouldn't really be Notre Dame. 
—John C. Thomas 

The Notre Dame Student Body Greets Team Returning From Army Game 
Twenty 
The Notre Dame Band by Jack English 
This year's edition of the Notre Dame band, composed of EOTC and V-12 per­sonnel along with civilian students, con­tinued, as in former years, to supply color and thrills to the home football contests of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. The already famous organization attracted nation-wide attention this sea­son through its presentation of intri­cate, highly original and novel fonna­tions coupled with smoothly coordinated, spirited and timely music. 
Exhibiting its attractions for the first time at the Illinois game, the band en­tertained the fans at half-time with sev­eral complicated formations. First the band spelled out "Illini" to honor the many Illinois fans present. Then, from the south end of the field a huge pink heart, 30 feet in diameter, carried by several students, moved slowly toward the north end zone where civilian and NROTC dates were seated. • The band then struck up, appropriately enough, with Sigmund Romberg's "Sweetheart." This entertaining feature was followed by the novel "Surrey with the Fringe on Top." In this super spectacle of color and precision, which was pictured in Life magazine, so original and unusual was the formation, the members of the band formed a huge antique surrey com­plete with revolving wheels and a red, white, and blue fringe. This was accom­panied by the hit tune from "Oklahoma," "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top." Following this, the surrey magically changed into a large locomotive com­plete with wheels which began to travel slowly down the field to the music of the song sensation of the nation, "The Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe." Not satisfied with this realistic foi-ma­tion, Mr. H. Lee Hope, dii-ector of the band, had planned to have smoke com­ing from the engine, but an unforeseen wind spoiled this clever idea. 
The Dartmouth game marked the last appearance of the Midshipmen Band. So, for this farewell occasion, the Uni­versity Band of 108 players was com­bined with the Midshipmen Band to form a huge aggregation of 170 musi­cians. Formed thus in block formation, the augmented bands played "some pow­erful music," consisting of the "Gridiron March," "The Barnum & Bailey Circus March," and a medley of Dartmouth brilliant ai-rangement of "Chiri, Biri, Bin." Credit for this musical extrava­ganza goes to the Chief Bandmaster of the Midshipmen School, Lloyd Ander­man, and to Mr. Hope, who pooled their resources to produce entertainment on a grand scale. 
The final home game of the season between Notre Dame and Iowa occurred between semesters. Consequently, the University Band was not on the cam­pus for the game. However, the Mid­shipmen Band pei"fonned along with a review of the Midshipmen regiment, which was soon to leave Notre Dame. Since it Avas Navy Day, several high naval dignitaries were present to view the proceedings. The excellent ground performance was complemented by an air show consisting of 100 Navy planes flying over the Stadium. Thus, on this great Navy Day, the sailors here shared the spotlight with the Notre Dame foot­ball team. 
On November 17, the Band, together with hundreds of Notre Dame students, traveled to Evanston, 111., for the North­western game. This mai'ked the first time the Band had traveled to a game since the Northwestern contest of 1943, the reason for the suspension being transportation difficulties due to the exi­gencies of war. Here, the Band repeat­ed, by popular demand, "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top" and "The Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe" to the evi­dent enjoyment of the 49,000 fans. For this game, the Band was composed of 140 Notre Dame students, the largest group ever to represent the University. 
The close of the football season has not meant the end of work, worries, and headaches to Mr. Hope, who is now busy organizing a 76-piece symphony orches­tra. Try-outs are now under way for this orchestra, which will feature "al­most perfect instrumentation." The or­chestra will give concerts on the cam­pus and elsewhere. For those who do not make the symphony orchestra, a pep band Avill be organized to play at basket­ball games and other athletic contests. All this has made Mr. Hope one of the busiest men on the campus. 
The football season has ended and the great musical organization, which has so well represented the University, can point with pride to a splendid record of achievement made possible by endless hours of rehearsal, planning, and hard work. And with a bigger and better sea­son in prospect for next year, when the Band will again take to the road, Notre Dame students and fans everywhere can rest assured that it will continue to maintain its musical predominance and record of unusual, original, and clever fonnations. 
tunes. The climax came with a timly Surrey with the Fringe on Top 
TiATenty-one 

Notre Dame 1945 
c 
o 
N G 
^' 3;-^ sr^ 31.^ ei 
R 

A 
^ ^ *^s# 5^^ ' . <3^ % 
64 as 48 51 15 i 
T 
* I 
* * 

L 
U Left to Right—^Bottom Row: Dick Debuono. John Glaab, Joe G Bob Skoglund. Capt. Frank Dancewicz, Marty Wendell, John A Phil O'Connor, Walter Grothatis, Roger Cadieux, John Panel! Pantera, Mike Bush. 3rd Row: Frank Tripucke, Matt Maryonsk Opela, Ed Stelmazek, Steve Oracko, Terry Brennan, Bill Goznj: 
ler. Frank Johnson, Ernie Virok, Al D'Alanzo, Bob White, Tom (Mgr.), Ken Stilley, Jake Kline, Hugh Devore, Joe Sheeketski 
A 

T Who's Wl 
I 
All other states may have some team to which they point with pride. 
From mountain peaks to rolling plains or where the breakers ride. 
From Florida to Oregon, from Texas up to Maine, 
O 
From Michigan to Tennessee we hear the stout refrain. 
They're spilling oratory for a winning football team 
N S 

Apparel for Men 
-M^ QM^ 
«NTIK CMINEK... MICMMAN ( WflWIfifm 
T •wenty-two 



3 Varsity Football Squad 
%^ ':^ 
~ ^ »­

le Gasparella, John Mastrangelo, Elmer Angsman, Peter Berezne;, Phil Colella, m Agnonexi Fred Rovoi, Ed Mieszkovrskt. 2nd Row: Bill Rtissell, Jim Eurzynske, melli, Tom Potter, Bill Fischer, Vince Scott, John Fallon, Dick Cronin, Leroy [mski, Emii Slovak, Bill Flynn. Bill Walsh, Jim McGurk, Frank Ruggerio. Bruno lompers, I'd Fay. Bill Leonard. 4th Row: Dick Heman, Frank CopoUa, Bill Zeh­rom Scbretber. Eill Michaels. Al Schmid, Bob McAuli&e. Top Row: John Graii :etski, Walter Ziemba, Harry Jacunski, Jimmy Molidor, Ted Rademacher (Mgrs.)­
Who h Hoosierdom 
ft 

de. But our Who's Who in Hoosierdom shows three teams known to fame. Purdue and Indiana—and the bunch from Notre Dame So in this famous Hoosier state we'll make the rafters roar. For Isbell. "Bo" McMillan, and for good old Hugh Devore. 
—Grantland Rice 


n. jWomen and Boys 
F I G H T I N G 
I R I S H 

ON THE (OKNEI^... WCNMAN f WSHMfiRM 
Twenty-th 

r e e 
Presenting . 
f; "^^f^^-'^i^ss^^f.-^-i^^i^K^i 
Frank I. Dancewicz 

FRANK J. DANCEWICZ—Polish, senior quarterback, returned to the Irish as regu­lar signal-barker for the second straight year in search of his third monogram. He" came to Notre Dame from Classical High school, Lynn, Mass., -where he was herald­ed as the greatest high school grid per­former in New England in 1940 and J941. Boley served as understudy to Angelo Ber­telliand lohn Lujack during his sophomore year, but came into his own as one of the nation's greatest passers during the past two seasons. One of the leading politic­ians on the Notre Dame campus, Frank hopes to take his congeniality into the coaching business after graduation. Frank was named to practically every All-Amer­
ican selection made at the close of the current season. Besides being cm out­standing defensive player and deadly passer, Bole-y was the guide for the youth­ful Notre Dame squad this year—^the cap­tain in every sense of the word. 
ROBERT W. SKOGLUND—Swedish-Irish, senior left end, was the only returning wingman who earned a monogram in 1944. Following in the footsteps of his bro­ther Len, who won N.D. letters in '36 and 
Robert W. Skoglund 

Twenty-four 
Elmer J. Angsman 
'37, Bob played his prep football at Loyola Academy in Chicago. In addition to cap­taining the Loyola eleven, he was selected for All-Sectional honors and grabbed off three letters in football, two in track, and one in boxing. Skoglund was a member of the NROTC unit on the Blue and Gold campus, and was commissioned at the end of October. He played his final game for Notre Dame against Northwestern. Bob was one of the most improved players on the squad—a Rock of Gibraltar on de­fense. Skog was the only member of the team to score a point after touchdown besides Stan Krivik, doing the job in the ^ Dartmouth game. 
ELMER I. ANGSMAN —German-Irish right halfback, played a bang-up game for the Irish last year at fullback, but was switched to halfback by Coach Devore this season to give Notre Dame more run­ning power in that department. Bud came to N.D. from Mt. Carmel High in Chicago, where he played under former Irish grid­der Wally Fromhart. Elmer won two mono­grams in football and one in baseball in high school. He hopes to utilize his artis­tic ability in commercial advertising after graduation. Angsman led the Irish in scoring during the 1945 season-and was also the leading ground gainer. He lost II teeth in the Navy game but came right back to ploy his best ball in the remain­ing games of the season. 
GEORGE W. RATTERMAN — German-Irish, sophomore quarterback, is a member of the Naval ROTC. His football mono­gram for this season is his fourth in as many different sports since coming to Notre Dame. The Cincinnati boy, one of the most versatile athletes ever to attend Notre Dame, was a standout on the bask­etball, tennis, and baseball teams. He won 9 monograms at Xavier High School in 
George W. Ratterman 

Cincinnati. Rated a comer as a passer, Ratterman's poise and headwork make up for his lack of weight, as he tips the scales at only 160 pounds. He is a great clog dancer and a pianist, and is in great demand at club functions in his home city. George was understudy to Dance­wicz this season, showing up well in relief roles as a passer and field general. He threw a 48 yard touchdown pass to Bill Gompers in the Northwestern game. 
PHILIP I. COLELLA —ItaUan, freshman halfback from Rochester, Pa., came to Notre Dame with one of the finest high school records in the country. Three times an All-State, and leading scorer in Penn­sylvania in 1943, Colella enlisted in the Navy in 1944, and saw action in the South Pacific as a Navy corpsman. He was given a medical discharge early this year. Shifty, and speedy, and possessed of' a determination to get across the goal line at all costs, Colella figured heavily in the Notre Dame offense this year. He was off to a flying start in college football when he raced 76 yards for a touchdown on the first play of the opening game with Illin­
ois. 
PhiUp I. ColeUo 

The Fighting Irish of 1945 
William Fischer 

WILLIAM FISCHER—German, freshman left tackle, who earned three letters in football at Lane Tech high school in Chi­cago, made a name for himself in the tough Chicago City Public League. Cap­taining the Lane Tech Eleven in 1944, he was good enough to earn a position on the honorary All-State squad. Lee Artoe, of the Chicago Bears, is Bill's favorite ath­letic hero. Fischer's life ambition is to be­come a top notch coach. At 255, Bill is the heaviest man on the squad. He saw con­siderable action as relief for Berezney and was also the kickoff specialist for the Irish. 
WILLIAM H. WALSH—Bill, 17-year-old, German-Irish, freshman center, came to Notre Dame following a successful career at Phillipsburg, N. J. high school where he won three letters in football and baseball, and one in track. He was named All-State center in football and All-State catcher in baseball. Being elected captain of the high school football squad was his big­gest, thrill. Wash became the regular cen­ter following the resignation of Frank Syz­manski, maintaining that position all sea­son. 
WilUam H. Walsh 

Peter P. Berezney 
PETER P. BEREZNEY—Austrian, senior right tackle, hails from Jersey City, N. I., and came to Notre Dome after winning three monograms as a member of the var­sity eleven at Dickinson high school. Pete, who was named to the All-City and All-State elevens in 1942, has completed his third year as a member of the Irish squad. He won a monogram in 1944 as 
Edward T. Mieszkowski 
well as this season. Some day Berezney hopes to become a lawyer. A brother. Dr. Paul Berezney, starred at Fordham and later as a tackle with the Green Boy Packers. Pete made his number "47" very noticeable every Saturday during the sea­son, as he spent most of his time in the opponents' backfield. 
EDWARD T. MIESZKOWSKL Polish, junior tackle, has completed three seasons on the Irish squad after winning five mono­grams in football and wrestling at Tilden Tech high school in Chicago. Ed, who was All-City selection at tackle, also held the city heavyweight wrestling championship; he was captain of the Tilden wrestling squad. Hampered by injuries during the 
John B. Mastrangelo 
first two years on the Irish squad, Miesz­kowski come through the 1945 season in top form, his stellar line play earning him first team selection on the LN.S. All-Mid­western for 1945. 
JOHN B. MASTRANGELO-r-ItoIian, jun­ior left guard, was one of two returning guards at outset of season who earned monograms during 1944. John, a bosom, pal of John Glaab, hails from Vander­grift. Pa., where he won four football monograms while alternating between tackle and fullback at Vondergrift High. "Cut" professes math as his favorite study, and when not busy on the gridiron, he might be found on the tennis court. Music is one of his favorite hobbies. John re­ceived the distinction of being named "Lineman of the Week," after the Navy game, by a poll of the nation's sports writers. 
JOHN B, PANELU—Italian, sophomore fullback, hcdls from Morristown, New Jer­sey, and attended Cheshire Academy. Cheshire, Connecticut. He -won three let­ters in football, one in baseball, and one 
John B. PoneUi T w e n"t y -• f i V e 

Presenting.... 
Joseph R. Gasparella 

team in 1943. His greatest ambition is to become an Ail-American at Notre Dame. 
• 

JOSEPH R. GASPARELLA — Italian, sophomore quarterback, provides the Irish with another of the best passers in the land. Joe, hailing from Vander­grift. Pa., played both football and bas­ketball, captaining the grid teams in his senior year at Vandergrift high. The six foot, four inches, 218-pound, iS-year-old youth, who did an excellent job as un­derstudy to Dancewicz last year, proved his versatility this year as he alternated at the quarter, half, and fullback posts. He hopes to become a journalist. 
WILLIAM D. ZEHLER—Halfback, claims Rutledge, Pa, as his home town. Attended Ridley Township high school. "Zip" scored his first Notre Dame touchdown in the Georgia Tech game when he took a pass from Joe Gasparella and raced 54 yards to score. An Atlanta correspond­ent stated that that play was the one that took Tech down for the rest of the game. Zehler is 19 years old, weighs 185, and stands six foot, one inch. 
Fred J. Rovoi 

in basketball. John -was elected grid cap­tain for two seasons and was named All-State in 1943. He is a great pass catcher. Due to his resemblance to Jim Mello, for­mer Irish fullback ace "Pep" was given Mello's old number to wear on his jersey "65." 
FRED J. ROVAI--"Rowbocrt," Italian, senior guard, returned this fall for his sec­ond season of football. He was a regular in 1944 as well as 1945. Fred is from Ham­mond, Indiana, and won All-State honors there as a high school fullback. He was freshman fullback on the Irish team in 1942, then went into the Army, and after receiving a medical discharge, he joined the team last fall. Shifted to guccrd, he has displayed his vicious blocking ability to good advantage. 
TERENCE P. BRENNAN—frish. freshman halfback, is one of the youngsters on the squad. Seventeen years old, he hails from Marquette High, Milwaukee, where he earned seven letters, two in football, two in hockey, and three in track. Bren­ncm, captain of a conference champion-
Terence P. Brenncm 

Twenty-six 
Emil Slovak 
ship grid squad, was named on the All-Conference team. His father played at Notre Dame in the early 1900's, and his broher, Jim, was a halfback for the Irish last season. Terry broke up the Tulane game with a 47 yard touchdown dash that started the Irish on to their victory par­ade. 
John A. Vcdnisi 
EMIL SLOVAK — Slovene, junior right halfback, is one of the smallest men on the Irish squad. His brother, Marty, played with the Cleveland Rams for four years and Emil hopes to add to the fam­ily grid prowess through his performan­ces at Notre Dame. He got off to a good start this fall by scoring against Georgia Tech and Iowa. 
JOHN A. VAINISI — Italian, freshman tackle, got his high school start dt St. George in Evanston, Illinois. While earn­ing two monograms as a tackle on the St. George eleven, John played under the tutelage of Max Burnell,' former Notre Dame halfback. Moose, who played with Marty Wendell, 1945 Irish fullback, and against Buddy Young, former Illinois star, was co-captain of the St. George 
WiUicnn D. Zehler 

The Fighting Irish of 1945 
William G. Gompers 
WILLIAM G. GOMPERS — Freshman halfback, is a resident of Wheeling, West Virginia, where he earned three mono­grams in football and one in basketball. Captain of the football squad in his sen­ior year. Bill was named to All-City hon­ors as halfback. His speed gave Irish fans plenty of thrilling moments this season. He also developed into a better than average pass receiver. 
STANLEY KHIVIK—Bloomfield, New Jer­sey, fullback, attended Bloomfield high where he starred in football. Kriyik was the extra point conversion specialist of the 1945 Notre Dame squad. He revived the lost art of drop-kicking, making a total of 22 conversions in the first nine games. Krivik also saw regular action as a fullback, scoring in .the Dartmouth game. He is 26 years old. 
THOMAS A. POTTER — Italian, junior right guard, is one of several discharged war vetemns on the Irish squad. Potter won a monogram as a guard at Fordham 
Stanley Kivik 

Thomas A. Potter 
in 1942, and in December of that year he went into the Army. He was given a medical discharge the early port of this year. Tom was - named All-State guard two years running while playing at Kear­
ibf:.-Vincent J. Scott 
ney, N. J., High and St. Benedict's Prep, South Orange, N. I. His greatest grid thrill came when he intercepted a pass and dashed for a touchdown in the Mis­souri-Fordhom game of 1942. 
VINCENT J. SCOTT — Italian, junior guard, is from LeRoy, New York, where he collected ten letters—four in football, three in track as a shot putter, and three in baseball. It was while at LeRoy high school that he first gained recognition, when he was selected on the All-Western Interstate Conference for two successive years. Scotty was a very dependable lineman all season with the Irish. 
Frank A. Ruggerio 
FRANK A. RUGGERIO — Italian, senior fullback, played three different positions in as many seasons on the Notre Dame team. He began his varsity career as a guard in 1943, was shifted to halfback in 1944 and this season Coach Devore had the youth at fullback. Frank won six let­ters at Orange high School in New Jer­sey, four in football, and two in basebolL He was named to the All-State squad for two years. Rooge, whose biggest ath­letic thrill was being a member of the 1943 National Championship eleven, names the late Lou Gehrig as his favor­ite athlete. Ruggerio was a powerful and consistent ball carrier all season. 
JOHN I. AGNONE—Italian, senior half­back, hails from Youngstown, Ohio, where he won an aggregate of six let­ters at Youngstown High—four in foot­ball, one in track, and one in basketbalL He was named AU-City and- All-State halfback in 1942, when he captained his team to a conference championship. This season was his third on the Irish squad. He scored in the Georgia Tech, Iowa, and Tulane games. 
John I. Agnen* 
Twenty-seven 

Presenting 
Walter-I. Grothaus 

WALTER J. GROTHAUS—German-Irish, freshman center, is an alumnus of Pur­cell high school of Cincinnati, Ohio, where he was a member of city and con­ference championship teams. He won five letters, three in football and two in basketball, and was named All-City and All-State in both sports during his senior year. During his last year, his grid squad went undefeated for the first time in his­tory. Walt developed into a fine center this year for Notre Dame. He was induct­ed into the Army after the Tulane game. 
• 

ROGER E. CADIEUX — French-Irish, sophomore quarterback, received his high school training at Cathedral high school, Springfield, Mass., hometown of Angelo Bertelli and Milt Piepul. He won two monograms in football and a pair in baseball. A member of the Western Massachusetts champions in 1942 and '43, Roger was tendered All-City honors in both football and baseball. He wants to become a dentist when he leaves Notre Dame. 
John J. Fallon 

lOHN I. FALLON — Irish, sophomore guard, gained a berth on the Irish var­sity squad last year, when he was only seventeen years old. John earned three monograms at Marquette high school in Alton, Illinois, where he captained the eleven in 1943. He played on an unde­feated, untied team in 1943 and was named to the Catholic League All-Stars. John also is a wrestler of sorts and his biggest thrill was competing in the 
A.A.U. meet. He worked his way through Mexico in 1943 while traveling through the Republic to the South. Was a start­er in the Northwestern and Tulane games this year. 
• 

RICHARD M. CRONIN — Irish, senior end, played his first year of football at Notre Dame this season. Dick, who is taking a pre-med course, was too en­grossed in his scientific studies to report for football during his first three seosons at Notre Dame. He was captain of the Fenwick high school in Oak Park, Illinois, and was awarded All-City honors in 1942. His size and height were used to good advantage this year. He became regular left end following the Navy transfer of Bob Skoglund. 
Richard M.~Croiiin 

Twenty-eight 
lames S. McGurk 
JAMES S. MC GURK—Irish, sophomore fullback, who attended Montclair High, Montclair, New Jersey, has completed two seasons on the Notre Dame varsity. Jim came to Notre Dame after winning two football letters and a similar num­ber both in track and baseball. He won a monogram as regular first baseman for the Irish this year. Mac is a member of 
William I. Flynn 
the Naval ROTC on the campus. He im­proved rapidly during the season, seeing considerable action in the Navy game, and scored the second Irish touchdown in the Northwestern game. 
WILLIAM J. FLYNN — Irish, freshman end, came well recommended from Hor­ace Mann High School in Gary, Indiana, his home town, where he earned two monograms in football and one in bask­etball. He was grid captain in his senior year. A product of the Calumet region, which also sent N.D. such stars as Wally Ziemba, Fred Roved and Jules Rykovich, Bill -was named on the All-City grid squad and the All-Conference team of the Northern Indiana Conference for two seasons. 
Roger E. Cadieux 

The Fighting Irish of 1945 
Thomas P. Schreiber 

THOMAS P. SCHREIBER — German-Irish, senior center, is in his third year on the Irish squad after performing bril­liantly at St. Martin High in Detroit. Tom garnered three letters in football and one in basketball and was named All-Con­ference center in his senior year. He made rapid progress during the season, developing into a fine center. 
WnjJAM LEONARD — Freshman end, is a product of East High School, Youngs­town, Ohio, where he earned two mono­grams as an end on the football squad. A member of the city champions. East High, Hoppy hopes to follow the steps of Bab Dove, Youngstown youth who earned Ail-American honors as an end at Notre Dame. Leonard got off to a good start toward that goal during the 1945 season. 
PHILIP J. O'CONNOR—Irish, freshman end, played football and basketball at Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, In­
William Leonard 

Philip J. O'Connor 
diana, earning two letters in each. He was elected captain of the Cathedral grid eleven in 1944 and attracted such wide attention by his football activities that he was named on the All-City squad 
Bruno P. Opela 
and gained honorable mention on the All-State eleven. Although he was a full­back in high school. Coach Hughie De­vore was attracted by his potentialities as a pass-snatcher. O'Connor bore out the Irish mentor's judgment by- his play this season. 
BRUNO P. OPELA—End from Chicago, Illinois. Played for Lane Technical High School before entering Notre Dame. Bruno does not lack size, being six foot, one inch and weighing 196. He is 22 years old. Saw considerable action this season as a reserve end. 
JOHN F. LE BROU — French-German, halfback, established quite a record for 
John F. Le Brou 
himself at Calvert Hall, Baltimore, Md., where he won nine monograms, two in football, three in basketball and four in baseball. John was named captain in football and baseball and his grid squad won the Catholic football Championship. An All-State grid selection, LeBrou lists his greatest thrill as scoring 25 points in his high school grid finals. Le Brou was a pitcher and monogram winner in base­ball; this was his second year on the football squad. Johnny was also one of the fastest men on the team. 
JOHN P. GLAAB—German-French, jun­ior tackle, is a native of Long Beach, California, where he played three years of varsity ball for Woodrow Wilson high school. He was named to the All-City and All-League elevens in 1943. While winning three letters in football. John was a member of the City Champs, Foot­hill Champions, and the Long Beach Compton League Champions. George Sullivan, teammate of Glaab last season, is his favorite athlete. 
John P. Giadb 
Twenty-nine 

Men Behind the Notre Dame Scene 
Dr. James E. McMeel University Physician 
* Dr. James E. McMeel, a practicing physician in South Bend, has been universit}' physician at Notre Dame since 1934. Dr. McMeel, after at­tending the University of Qiicago, graduated from the Rush Medical college in Chicago in 1913. After four years of hospital service and 27 months in the armed forces during World War I, he returned to South Bend and has been practicing there ever since. Dr. McMeel swabs 
throats, diagnoses ailments and issues pills and other medi­cine for students who make more than 8,000 calls annually to his office in the student infirmarj'. 
H. Lee Hope, Band Director 
* One hundred highly-polished mu­sical instruments—one hundred pairs of rhythmic marching feet — a keen sense of all types of music and for­mation marching — these are the tools with which H. Lee Hope, direc­tor of the University of Notre Dame band, annually molds together one of the outstanding collegiate bands in the nation. Director Hope, a grad­uate of Michigan, formerly served as band director at Murray State Teachers' College. He appeared as a 

guest conductor here in the summer of 1942. 
Joe Dierickx, Stadium Caretaker 

*
 Thousands of fans who annually trek to the Notre Dame Stadium to witness the Blue and Gold eleven in action often cast this remark: "The gridiron in this stadium certainly is well cultivated; I wonder who is re­sponsible?" The answer is Joe Die­rickx, who has been working as care­taker of the Notre Dame Stadium since it was built in 1930. Before coming to Notre Dame, Joe was a top-notch acrobat for the nation's leading circuses and he spent 16 years on vaudeville stages and on circus trapeze bars. 

*
 Joe, and his 18 student and full-time assistants, annually plant 200 pounds of Kentucky blue grass on the stadium field and scatter 3V2 tons of fertilizer. Joe never sees a football contest though he attends every one. 


Hugh Burns, Team Trainer 
* Hugh Bums, successor to Eugene (Scrapiron) Young as ttainer of ath­letic teams at die University of Notre Dame, is one of the busiest young men on the university campus. Hugh, who served as assistant to "Scrapiron" during his student days at Notre Dame, studied orthopedics in New York for IV2 years after his graduation in 1939. He headed the physical education program at De Lasalle High School in Chicago and then served as trainer at Xavier 
University in Cincinnati. After 19 months in the Marine Corps, Hugh returned to Notre Dame as trainer in January of 1945. 
* He is faced with the responsibility of curing strained muscles, "charley horses," and other ailments of athletes in order diat tfaey may be ready for action in every game. Bums, who has studied physiotherapy, uses ultra-violet ray lamps, heat treatments, vitamin pills and 14,000 yards of tape an­nually in working on Irish athletes. 
Thirty 
John W. McAllister Superintendent of Equipment 
* John W. (Mac) McAllister, one of the few remaining holdovers in the Notre Dame Athletic Association from the days of the immortal Knute Rockne, handles more than 10,000 pieces of athletic equipment aimual­ly as he issues uniforms, towels, shoes, sweaters and jackets to nearly 500 Notre Dame athletes. "Mac" has come into contact with more athletes and other Notre Dame men during his tenure in the gymnasium equip­ment room than almost any other personality on the univer­sity campus. 
William H. Duley Director of Stadium Personnel 
* The Notre Dame Stadium is famed for having one of the smoothest working service organizations in the country. Much of the credit for the success of this organization is due to the tireless work of William H. Duley, who has been director of the stadium personnel since 1932. A South Bend printer, Mr. Duley is in active charge of the 850 men who act as ushers, gatemen, messengers, rampmen, and information clerks for 

the diousands who annually attend Notre Dame home games. 
Harry S. Thilman Football Ticket Staff 
*
 Thilman, right hand man to John 

P.
 Donnelly, business manager of athletics, handled more tickets this Fall than any other member of the NDAA. A part-time employee of the athletic association for 12 years, Mr. Thilman became a regular member of the stafiF on July 1. A native of South Bend, he was in private busi* ness before assuming his new duties. 


Whenever journalists, businessmen, Monday morning strate­gists and sports enthusiasts congregate for the purpose of gridiron dissertations, the trend of conversation will inevitably concern itself with the accomplishments of one Knute Rockne. Over the span of fifteen years since the tragic death of this memorable personality, many grandeloquent talks have been given in his honor; thousands of anecdotes have been revived at the mere mention of his name; an esprit de corps second to none has persisted on the campus of Notre Dame as an aftermath of his sincerity, perseverance, loyalty and honesty. This humble man has become significant of an era and of a University whose gridiron attainments have become legend­ary. His were the qualities to be found in the ideal coach and the incomparable man. 
Reiteration of his many successes can but renew a nostal­gia so evident whenever the Fighting Irish assemble—^whether it be on the football field, the basketball court, the cinder path or the baseball diamond. The indeterminable "something" that is manifested in the indomitable courage, the persevering loyalty and the omnipresent desire for victory—^whether "the odds be great or small"—can he directly attributed to this same Knute Rockne, builder of men. 
That "Rock" would have been proud of the accomplishments of the 1945 version of the Fighting Irish can be appreciated by recognizing in their endeavors the same characteristics which were consistently reflective of any of his own teams. Since that warm September afternoon when the Irish prevented five goal line thrusts by a stiibbom Illinois eleven until the final seconds when they succumbed to the might of Great Lakes, the 1945 club was every bit as truly a Rockne team as his own National Champions of 1930. In their two defeats they were as magnificently Notre Dame men as they were in the seven victories. 
And thus another football season has been terminated. Fifteen hove passed since the last Rockne coached team. Five coaches and hundreds of boys have struggled to main­tain all that he has made possible. All of them may be said to have sustained the same attributes that he inculcated in his first team almost three decades ago. Seasons will come and seasons will pass but all Notre Dame crtMetic teams will be analogous to the best of the lucrative Rockne era; all Notre Dame men will strive for the victory in the same persevering way; all Notre Dame coaches will never forget this man "whose perfection of personality, devotion to duty and sincerity of method have become synonymous wih Notre Dame footbalL 
—Phil Corboy 
Thirty-one 
Pigskin Sidelights 
By FRANK CACCIAPAGUA, Jr. 

Who's the cute little Atlanta tele­graph girl who caught VINCE SCOTT's eye when the team met the Engineers in October? It is reported that Vince was kept pretty busy the whole week­end—sending telegrams. 
Also, while down in Atlanta, JOHNNY AGNONE came upon a luscious peach who was flashing a new portrait of her­self. Result? Agnone got the portrait and someone to correspond with in At­lanta. That's cementing Yankee-Rebel relations. Nice work, Johnny. 
Chicago's DICK CRONIN found the New York atmosphere a little intoxicat­ing—realized he was on the way back to South Bend only after a few hundred miles out of New York. 
To FRANK DANCEWICZ—Who is that Tulsa coed who followed the Irish all the way to New Orleans to see you in action against the Green Wave? How about that, Boley? 
PHIL COLELLA got a politician's welcome when the team arrived for the Pitt game. An aggregation led by Phil's old high school band gave him all but the key to the city. 
What were Moose Fisher, Pep Panelli, Elmer Raba and Rudy Lopez doing at 
6:00 a.m. on the streets of Chi the Sun­day of the Northwestern game? They must have been breaking themselves in for the Legion Convention. 
Before the football season was under way, FRANK RUGGERIO promised his girl back in Jersey that he'd score so many touchdowns for her—Hope you kept your promise Frank. 
ELMER ANGSMAN still spends a few hours now and then with the dentist trying to get his incisors patched up. Can't wait till he can flash that "com­plete" smile for the girls at the D. A. V. 
Now that another football season has ended, FRED ROVAI won't have to worry about breaking training to get back to Hammond and "take care" of his dad's bar. 
The team and coaches were treated to a hilarious pre-game show the day of the Northwestern game when they watched the death-daring feats of the two motorcycle police that led the Notre Dame bus through Chicago traffic. 
NOTRE DAME JACKETS * SWEATSHIRTS • PENNANTS 
•$-$^ 

•> GOLF CLUBS * HAND BALLS and GLOVES * 
SONNEBORN'S ^oW J^ p 
121 West Colfax Avenue. Phone 3-3702 
Jtaii all to the 1945 Squad for a valiant season 
1151/2 N. Main St. (upstairs) 
THE HAPPIEST CHRISTMAS IN YEARS! 
Gifts for Every Member of Your Family 
•
 BmiH STONE RINGS 

•
 EABRDfGS 



And speaking of pre-game shows— • BRACELETS the combined Northwestern-Notre Dame • PINS 
w/y/i 

bands sounded like the New York Phil­V \ • COMPACTS harmonic tuning up when they murdered • LEATHER GOODS 126 N. Michigan the National Anthem. Each band played 
the selection in different keys. Thirty-two 
Capt. Dancewicz Lauds i«it<i«ft«<ai^a<i«a«<ft«<»<»eat<awja«<a«<aw«awB^ Devore and Team's Spirit 
"The spirit was tops; and after four years, no other vras better than" this year's. The spirit among the players and coaches was the best possible." Those are the words of Frank Dancewicz, captain of the 1945 Notre Dame football squad. As captain of the team and one of few veterans on the squad, Frank had much to do with the fine spirit that prevailed among the players and coaches this sea­son. 
When asked about the menial status of the team before and during the sea­son, Frank stated that due to inexperi­ence the team did not know what to ex­pect ; as a result they were neither over­confident nor did they display a lack of confidence. After several successive vic­tories, the squad still maintained their level attitude. 
Dancewicz considers Devore tops as a football coach. He was well liked by everyone on the squad and by all who had affiliations with him. 
"The team was at their best in the Navy game; but Army was the toughest opponent," according to Boley. He at­tributed the Great Lakes nightmare to the general weariness from travel and to the poor physical condition of the team as a result of the prevailing sickness at the time. 
Dancewicz will graduate in June. He competed for three years on the Notre Dame varsity, being regular quarterback and field general in his last two seasons. 
FOOTBALL TEAMS. 1945 
Associated Press 
1.
 Army 6. Michigan 

2.
 Navy 7. St. Mary's 

3.
 Alabama 8. Pennsylvania 

4.
 Indiana 9. NOTRE DAME 

5.
 Oklahoma Aggies 10. Texas 


1945 ATTENDANCE HGURES Illinois 45.000 Georgia Tech 32.000 Dartmouth 45,000 Pittsburgh 65.000 Iowa 52.500 Navy 82.000 Army . 78.000 Northwestern 49.500 Tulane .. 63.000 Great Lakes 25.000 Total 535.000 1944 Attendance 507.000 1943 Attendance 504.000 

»^'?l^\ 
Sf .ieaOtt 

HANS/RINTZSCH 
$"$-$ 
Michigan at CoUax 

u/f/af e ^/jCi
vp> 

IH^i!69'i!8PJLBtt<SW^6BWSH^SHI>^!6WSBPI?BP>!BW 
'y>:r^s^<

% NOT ONLY NEAT 
mmm 

W.L.DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.. BROCKTON IS.MASS. 
Thirty-three 
^^=*^ 

ISSUf OF 0€C€al«i4t^ i#«» •-4' # 
ALL-AMERICAN FOOTBALL TEAM 
Se/ected by 
The 350 Members Of The j American Football Coaches 
H
ERE, at last, is an All-Ameri­can football team selected by the men best qualified to judge— the football coaches of the nation. 
It's the first time in the history of college football that any pub­lication has been privileged to announce a selection from the top authorities in the game. 
350 COACHES TO VOTE 

These are the men who have set the college football stage—dis­covered, trained and turned out the players. Together, they have witnessed all of the good foot­ball in the entire season. 
NEW METHOD OF JUDGING 

During each week of the football 
Association 
season, coaches watched with trained eyes every man who looked like All-American mate­rial. Week after week, these re­ports were filed with the Asso­ciation, tabulated, and returned to the coaches for a careful study and a final, end-of-season vote. 
The men who made this final Ail-American team are the real "Who's Who" among the na­tion's players, as selected by the "Who's Who" among the men best qualified to judge. 
Don't miss the American Foot­ball Coaches Association 1945 AU-American Team in the December 29th issue of The Saturday Evening Post. 
•Again the Post pioneers in a sports venture of interest to millions of fans. To keep up with all that's new in the na­tion's favorite sports — be sure to read the Post every week. 
Frank Leahy Returns to N.D. Coaching Job 
The return of Frank Leahy to Notre Dame has given the well known football "bug" an adequate reason for remaining out of hibernation a little bit longer than per usual. The campus is buzzin'! The pages of Notre Dame football history are being turned back a few years to that memorable 1943 season when Leahy's national champions ruled the pigskin world. Football yarns of yesteryear are being spun all over again with numerous arguments being the ultimate result. Records and statistics are being pro­duced with ease and anyone who has the slightest bit of argumentative spirit considers himself an expert. 
Yes, the genial Irish coach has retui-ned to his alma mater, having re­ceived his naval discharge a few weeks ago in San Fi-ancisco. He has turned down many handsome offers to coach in the professional ranks in order to take the coaching reins of the Blue and Gold bandwagon from the affable Hughie De­vore, head football mentor during the season just completed. 
He was thoroughly pleased with the showing made by the youthful Irish squad, which was expected by many of the experts to play the role of pushovers the past season. He was also high in his pi'aise of Coach Devoi-e and his entii'e coaching staff and the manner in which they welded the teen-laden Notre Dame team into one of the most powerful grid­iron squads in the country. 
With the war over and many former Irish stars, who have been released from the armed forces, hoping to don their grid togs once again, the prospects of another successful season with Leahy at the helm are shaping up quite favor­ably among the nation-wide list of Notre Dame rooters. 
A STATEMENT 
Elmer Layden, Commissioner of The National Football League. Former Head Coach and Director of Athletics at Notre Dame. 
"I have seen only the Northwestern game, but I congratulate Hugh Devore, the coaches, and the team on the fine football they are playing, and the great example of Notre Dame spirit they are showing. Coming back after a loss is al­ways difficult, and it is a test for any team, particularly a decisive defeat. This team of 1945 has met the test, and I congratulate them on their fine record, and their splendid representation of Notre Dame." 
Books •.. 

make splendid gifts for the young people in your family. 
The Book. Shop 
130 N. Michigan 
Try our Loafer— Exclusive 
representotive for 

The college man's Nettleton — Crosby Square favorite campus shoe 
Walk-over — Foot Joy Stacy Adams — Matrix 

$6.50 ^5.95 to ^16.50 
X-Ray Fitted by Experts 
120 So. Michigan Street 
WILLIAMS, The Florist 
lust West of the OUver Phone 3-5149 
Thirty-f i ve 

Notre Dame Football Managers 
When Notre Dame's warriors step on the field on Saturday afternoons, spec­tators see a smooth-functioning team. What they do not see is the enormous amount of work and planning that makes it possible for them to put in an ap­
pearance on enemy gridirons. To the 
student managers falls the responsibil­
ity for making the arrangements neces­
sary to bring the team to a particular 
stadium at a particular time. 
The managers' staff was organized in the days of the immortal Knute Rockne. Under the system inaugurated by him, 
Tohn H. Graif Ted Rademaker lames F. Molidor 
many freshmen aspirants are carried, 
each having as his goal the head man­ger's berth for two years. His task is the head coach. After the game the agership. The sophomore year finds a a major one. He must see that every­weary players must be brought back to lesser number assisting the veterans. 
thing functions smoothly from the time the school as scheduled. Then Graif There are usually three juniors on the the team leaves the campus until it re­turns in his expense account and game-staff, and one senior manager in charge. 
turns. In advance of the trip Johnny time list, and prepares for the following The war has modified the Eockne sys­gets the itinerary from the Business week. 
tem, which is used by many major col­
Manager, makes train and hotel reser­
leges when conditions permit. 
vations for the party, requests excuses The associate manager in charge of 
Today at Notre Dame, the head man­for players making the trip, issues ex­equipment is Ted Rademaker, of Peru, ager is scholarly-looking John H. Graif. pense money to the players, and engages Ind. He is responsible to equipment-head Johnny, a senior from Mankato, Minne­transportation to the train. During the McAllister foi the extensive parapher­sota., has held down the head mana-game he lists the players' game-time for nalia used by the team. Ted, who is 
BOTTLB) UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOHLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 
Thirty-six 
Head Manager Graif's roommate, en­SECOND TEAM 
•^ite 
Dip • i 
I
H k 
Welcomes the new students at Notre Dame. 
Our food will please you. 
120 South Main Street 
(Across {rem the Courthouse) 
Open 11:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. Seven days a week trains with the equipment the day be­fore the team leaves. The morning of the game he lays out the uniforms, then waits for the team. After the game, he must see that everything is returned to Notre Dame. Ted, a senior in accounting, is also serving his second year in the capacity of associate manager. 

The third man on this team is James 
F. Molidor, of Libertyville, 111., who as­sists the other managers. Specifically, he sees that the players get their meals, checks on taxicabs and busses, and looks after the general welfare of the entire party. 
—J. M. Wieman 
United Press All-Annerican Teams 
FIRST TEAM 
Henry Foldberg, Army End Tom Hughes, Purdue Tackle John Green, Army _ Guard Vaughn Mancha, Alabama Center Warren Amling, Ohio State Guard Tex Coulter, Army „ Tackle Dick Duden, Navy „ End Hariy Gilmer, Alabama Back Glen Davis, Army _ Back Herman Wedemeyer, St. Mary's Back Felix Blanchard, Army Back 
SECOND TEAM 
Max Dodge, Nevada End Don Malmberg, U.C.L.A Tackle Joe Dickerson, Penn Guard Dick Scott, Navy Center Ed Deramee, Navy Guard Buster McClure, Nevada Tackle Bob lEavensburg, Indiana End Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame Back Bob Fenimore, Oklahoma Aggies Back Stan Koslowski, Holy Cross. Back Pete Pihos, Indiana Back 
I.N.S. All-Midwestern Teams 
FIRST TEAM 
Max Morris, Northwestern End Ed Mieszkowski, Notre Dame Tackle John Mastrangelo, Notre Z)aTOe...._Guard Harold Watts, Michigan Center Warren Amling, Ohio State Guai'd Clarence Esser, Wisconsin Tackle Bob Eavensburg, Indiana. End Frank Dancewicz, Notre Dame Back George Taliaferro, Indiana Back Dick Fisher, Ohio State _ —Back Pete Pihos, Indiana Back 
Ted Kluszewski, Indiana  End  
Jim Kekeris, Missoiiri.  Tackle  
Jim Lecture, Northwestern  Guard  
Mac Wenskunas, Illinois  Center  
Howard Brown, Indiana  Guard  
Ralph Sei*pico, Illinois  Tackle  
Bob Skoglund, Notre  Dame  End  
Jerry Niles, loiva  Back  
Bill Dellastatious, Missouri  Back  
OUie Cline, Ohio State  Back  
Ed Cody, Purdue  Back  

'^:^^^'^>'%Jk:k^.:is -j^. -k 
I.N.S. AU-American Team 
1945 
Henry Foldberg, Army  End  
Dewitt Coulter, Army  Tackle  
John Mastrangelo, Notre Dame  Guard  
Vaughn Mancha, Alabama  Center  
Warren Amling, Ohio State  Guard  
Mike Castronis, Georgia  Tackle  
Max Morris, Northwestern  End  

Herman Wedemeyer, St. Mary's —Back Bob Fenimore, Oklahoma Aggies .—Back Felix Blanchard, Army Back Glenn Davis, Army Back Frank Dancewicz, 
Notre Dame Honorable Mention 
LAST MINUTE 
SUGGESTIONS for 
CHRISTMAS 
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS 
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, 
X^* da X^* 
THE SET —$5.00 
BOARD OF PUBUCATIONS Adminisiratioii Building Notre Dame, bidiana 
Thirty-seven. 

Clashmore Mike-Irish Mascot 
By lames F. McCarthy 
Two familiar figures were absent from the Notre Dame football scene this year. One was scrappy little Clashmore Mike, the spunky Irish Terrier, who, as team mascot for the past decade, had captured the attention of football fans throughout the nation. On Monday, Sept. 17, less than two w^eeks before the 1945 grid season opened, Mike's body was found on the campus by a caretaker and bur­ied in the Notre Dame stadium where the mascot had begun his illustrious career. 
The other notable missing from the Irish camp this year was Mr. Dan'Han­ley, IVIike's ti-ainer, who after 17 years of sei-vice with the University, was con­fined to Healthwnn, no doubt remember­ing his colorful days with Clashmore and looking foi-ward to the time when he could again train a mascot to win fame with the Fighting Irish. 
It was back in 1935 that a terrier, then an eight-week-old pup, arrived on the Notre Dame campus. Presented to Head Coach Elmer Layden by a Chicago kennel-owner, the pup was turned over to Dan Hanley for training as a mascot. Mr. Hanley named the dog Clashmore Mike after a famous Irishman, and then set about the difficult task of providing the young mascot with his famous reper­toire. With the aid of a broken bar, the frolicking puppy was taught to clear two feet. As the weeks passed the bar was raised, the result being that as the sea­son opened a vivacious terrier was tak­ing the high hurdles with ease. 
A victorious encounter with the Pitt Panther marked Mike's debut. Clash-more, in a lively mood that day, quickly went after the strange denizen of the East. To the glee of fans who packed Notre Dame stadium, the aggressive Irish Mascot literally made the fur fly, and a worried student wearing the pan­ther hide made a hasty reti-eat to the Pitt bench. 
Mike showed his fighting spirit many times aftei-wards, especially one Satur­day afternoon in 1941 against the Navy goat. Apparently the nautical atmos­phere aroused Clashmore somewhat, for he strained angrily at his leash as Mr. Hanley led him before the thousands 
For a great season . . . For a great fight .. . We say "well done, IRISH!" 
— The Huddle 
Thirty-eight 
who jammed Municipal Stadium in Bal­
timore that day. 
Suddenly an accident occurred — or perhaps it wasn't an accident. Mr. Han­ley tripped, dropping the leash, and Mike raced in the direction of Bill, renowned Navy goat. Dust flew as the two mascots captured the crowd's attention. It was dog and goat in a battle royal. But the goat soon retired from the fray, and the game little terrier trotted off happily with another victory to his credit. 
Not long after the game, a letter came to the University addressed to Mike in care of his trainer. The letter reads as follows: 
Baltimore, Maryland 
Bear Clashmore Mike: 
I suppose you get lots of letters from your fans. I would like to be one of them. I saw you were at the Notre Dame-Navy game. I thought you were very brave the way you went after the Navy goat., 
Mike, if you have any autographed pictures, I would dearly love to have one. I am sure you must have lots of requests for them. Well, here's wishing the best o' luck to you and your team. 
As ever your ardent fan, 
Mary Kiehne. 

According to records, it was the only letter the colorful Clashmore ever re­ceived. Incidentally, Mary got the pic­ture. 
Hostilities between Mike and the goat were renewed the following year. Ignor­ing hurdles which had been set up for him, Mike again tangled with the Navy mascot. The battle raged as in the pre­vious year and, to the displeasure of the Midshipmen and the goat, Mike once more emerged victorious. 
The same year, Army's mule fell be­fore fiery Clashmore. Mike chalked up another victory, and with it a rivalry that existed down through the years. 
Mikes' predecessors were two in num­ber. As legend has it, the first was a bulldog who, carrying a football in his mouth, entered the stadium in advance of the 1924 team. Following the Bulldog came Shawn Rue, an Irish terrier, who lasted until 1931. That year the team had a rather rough time of it, and after an unsuccessful season Shawn Rue dis­appeared. . . . 
The place of the recently deceased canine warrior had not been vacant long until into the spotlight appeared Clash-more Mike II. Presented as a gift to the University from James McGaughey, of Chicago, long a devoted friend of Notre Dame, the newcomer made his appear­ance on the eve of the Illinois game. A shy puppy during half-time festivities this season, Mike II tried to get the swing of things but did not quite meas­ure up to the veteran that had gone be­fore him. 
QllAiUnUui S0O4€ /ifOln 
And did you know that Flowers make the perfect Gift? 
SOUTH BBND FLORAL COMPANY 
Phone 3-8227 114 So. Michigan St. South Bend. bd. 
SOME PREFER A WARM, FURRY SLIPPER FOR THOSE CHILLY WINTER DAYS 
OR DO YOU ENJOY THE SLEEK OPERA SLIPPER? 

PERHAPS YOUR CHOICE IS A NICE, WARM FELT .... 
You'll find them for yourself or for those on your Christmas shopping list at— 
ItoiiiiiftiiASIuMSitnB 
1^ ^i U^ C-c^tUZ 
G A N -5 r R 
Thirty-nine 

ST.JOEVAUEYN.D. CLUB HONORS TEAM AT CIVIC BANQUET 
The University Dining Hall was filled December 4 with sport enthusiasts who gathered to pay tribute to the 1945 Fighting Irish football team and their coach, Hugh Devore. Two themes pre­vailed through the evening of interest­ing talks by noted leaders in the sport world; one concerned a salute to the 1945 Notre" Dame squad and the other was based on the challenge to Americans today, that of winning and maintaining the peace. 
Bill Fox, sports editor of the India­napolis Neivs, served as toastmaster for the evening. His clever introductions and quips contributed much to the success of the program. The Mayor of South Bend, F. Kenneth Dempsey, L. W. St. John, Director of Athletics at Ohio State, Col. Francis Gabreski, former Notre Dame student and flying ace, Wilfrid Smith of the Chicago Tribune, Governor Ralph E. Gates of Indiana, Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, Hugh Devore, and John Lavelle, Director of Athletics of the New York Catholic Youth Orga­nization, were the speakers during the evening. 
Mayor Dempsey said to the football squad, "You have won your glory and we're glad to have been your neighbors for a little while," Wilfred Smith ex­pressed the thanks of the newspaper men to Hugh Devore, "an honest workman who has played square with us." Added the Tribune football expert, "We wish the greatest success to Devore in what­ever he does for he is a credit to his alma mater." 
Governor Gates effectively told the 

group of the challenge that is facing 
America t«day. A challenge that calls 
for the promotion of a peace that will 
be lasting as well as a challenge to make 
this Nation one which will be ready to 
again accept into civilian status the re­
turning servicemen. 
Colonel Francis Gabreski related 

some of his many interesting experi­
ences encountered during the war. He 
also requested people to recognize as 
heroes only those who will never return 
for those who have returned are merely 
among the more fortunate. 
"Tonight belongs to the Notre Dame 

football team and its young coach, Hugh 
Devore, The season just closed must 
rank high in the annals of Notre Dame," 
said Father O'Donnell. He added that 
"What though the odds be great or 
small," are more than words,to a song 
Forty 
Larry's last lindy 
Larry's wilted collar and billowy shirt are heading him straight for the stag line—^permanently. You are looking at his first and last partner. 
Take a tip from Gertrude! Be a smooth dresser as well as a smooth dancer! Y7ear an Arrow, the shirt v/idi the non-wilting collar and the Mitoga-fit which con­forms to the lines of your body. 
Get your Arrows at your local Arrow dealer. If he doesn't have your favorite today, try him again later. 
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES 
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS 
in relation to this year's team. "This is a real championship team." 
Hugh Devore remarked that he was 

prouder of his team in defeat against 
Great Lakes than he would have been 
in victory. Hughie also expressed his 
appreciation to the team, for its cooper­
ation, as well as to the assistant coaches, 
trainer Hugh Burns, and all who 
worked with him. Captain Frank Dan­
cewicz presented a gift to Devore on be­
half of the squad. Devore then intro­
duced each member. 
"Running The Team," Grantland Rice 

Sports Review by Paramount Pictures, 
had its World Premiere at the banquet. 
It typified scenes on the Notre Dame 
campus not only involving football but 
also the daily routine of all students. 
During the course of the evening, Toastmaster Fox read several telegrams from invited guests who were unable to attend. While many of these messages were part of Fox's supply of quips, others expressed the feelings of sport notables in regard to the Fighting Irish and Hugh Devore. The following tele­grams were received: 
From Frank Leahy, Director of Ath­letics of Notre Dame to Eugene O'Brien President N.D. Club of St. Joe Valley: 
"Regret exceedingly that I am unable to attend tonight's banquet. Please con­vey my heartiest congratulations to Hugh Devore, his assistant coaches and players on a highly successful season. Never has a Notre Dame team more completely reflected that attitude of her coach than this year. Hughie Devore as a player was alert, smart, anxious to win, aggressive spirited, and a great blocker and tackier. His Notre Dame team of 1945 had all of the above men­tioned qualities. This year's team played and fought for Notre Dame in a manner that will long serve as an inspiration to all her loyal sons from coast to coast. I hope fervently that our future teams will be equally as representative. Thanks to you and all the swell fellows there for making possible such an outstanding football banquet. Notre Dame deeply appreciates your gesture. Regards to all." 
From Arch Ward, Sports Edtor of the Chicago Tribune, to Toastmaster Bill Fox: 
"I regret exceedingly that I cannot be your toastmaster this year because as an old philosophy classmate of Bill Fox a quarter of a century ago, you will know I can't read. This telegram will convince any skeptics that I can't write, either. I do want to add my little word of con­gratulation to a Notre Dame team that lived up to the University's rich grid­iron tradition. We will wait a long time to salute a finer group than Hugh De­vore and his 1945 squad." 
^ Salute to 
Hughie Devore and the Fighting Irish of 1945 
The 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago 
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For infor­mation call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111. 
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R. 
SOUmHORE 
Forty-one 

NOTRE DAME ALL-TIME FOOTBALL RECORD Q.. "-a 
Ytar  Won  Loj/ Tied  Year  Won  Lo;/ T/e</  • Greeting Cards  
1887 1888  0 1  1 2  0 0  1903 1904  8 5  0 3  1 0  • Artists' Supplies  
1889 1892  1 1  0 0  0 1  1905 1906  5 6  4 1  0 0  • Picture Framing  
1893  4  0  0  1907  6  0  1  
1894  3  2  1  1908  8  1  0  
1895 1896 1897  3 4 4  1 3 1  0 0 1  1909 1910 1911  7 4 6  0 1 0  1 1 2  I. W. Lower Co.  
1898  4  2  0  1912  7  0  0  DECORATORS  
1899 1900  6 6  3 3  1 1  1913 1914  7 5  0 2  0 0  128 Nordi Michigan Street  
1901  8  1  1  1915  7  1  0  
1902  5  2  1  1916  8  1  0  B..  .^  

Year ITOB Lost Tied Year IFOB Lost Tied 1917 6 1 1 1932 7 2 0 Specializing in the 
1918 3 1 2 1933 3 5 1 
examination of the eyes.

1919** 9 0 0 1934 6 3 0 1920** 9 0 0 1935 7 1 1 1921** 10 1 0 1936** 6 2 1 1922 8 1 1 1937** 6 2 1 1923 9 1 0 1938** 8 1 0 
Dr. E. J. Cain 

1924* 10 0 0 1939 7 2 0 
OPTOMETRIST 

1925 7 2 1 1940 7 2 0 1926 9 1 0 1941 8 0 1 1927 7 1 1 1942 7 2 2 1928 5 4 0 1943* 9 1 0 1929* 9 0 0 1944 8 2 0 1930* 10 0 0 1931 6 2 1 Totals 345 75 27 Prompt Lens or Frame Reptur 
service in our own laboratory. 

1945—Won 7; lost 2; tied 1 
*National Champions **Western Champions 
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251 

A Christmas gift Traditionally that's different. 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 

give an oil painting of Notre GENERAL DENTISTRY The place where X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION 
Dame, painted by an inter­
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS 

Notre Dame men meet nationally known artist. 
TELEPHONE 4-S661 

$30.00 and up 
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, IND. 
for 

Miss C. F. Makiebki 
623 J. M. S. Building DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER 
Delicious Italian South Bend 
DENTISTS 
and American Food 
SOS SHERLANO BUILDING 
PHONE 3-I2S4 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
REASONABLY PRICED, 

JEWELRY GIFTS 
PERFECTLY PREPARED SOUTH BEND 

for CHRISTMAS X-RAY LABORATORY 
You'll enjoy our prompt, cour­teous service and the collegi-825 SHERLAND BUILDING orte atmosphere. Plan to meet Purchases Gift Wrapped L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M. D. Free of Chorge 
your friends here often. Leading Credit Jeweler TELEPHONE 3-4269 
PHONE 3-0678 BLOCK BROS. ROSE DENTAL GROUP Comer Michigan and Washington 
for reservations LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. 
•*--- »*"-» •*»»--- »J«»... >*»'.-• >rt*T^ m^'t^.. ^A'T^**—--»^'*.-. «*'*-^ Wl * **"-- |rt*'ll 
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER j . ROSE, D.D.S. 
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND. 

THE STAMP SHOP 
Everything for the 
601 

STAMP COLLECTOR DR. O. J. GRUNDY 
501 Pythian Bldg. RECISTEREO PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS 
406-408 TOWER BUILDING 
PHONE 3-2574 

PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS 
F.o r t y -t w o 
NOTRE DAME SONGS 
NOTRE DAME. OUR MOTHER 
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame. And our hearts forever. Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever. Love thee, Notre Dame. 
VICTORY MARCH 
Rally sons of Notre Dame; Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game. Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And we'll cheer her ever 
Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: Qheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over alV-While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY 
Rah! Rah! Rah! Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry. Gathering foemen fling to the sky. Fight! Fight! Fight! Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame! Rah! Rah! Rah! 
Chorus: And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game. Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame. And when that Irish line goes smashing through. They'll sweep the foemens ranks away; When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day. 
HIKE SONG 
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it's the hike, hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high. Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre 
Dame." 

''More farm life for me!" 
New developments, offering advantages of speed and economy in construction, are being fully used in our pro> gram for extending and improving farm telephone service. . Among these are mechanical pole-hole diggers and plows for burying wire underground. Sturdier steel wire that permits longer spans will require fewer poles. 
And we are experimenting with "power line carrier^ to provide telephone service over rural electric lines. Radio, too, is being studied for use in connecting more isolated sections with telephone exchanges. 
Providing more and better rural telephone service is part of the Bell System plans for constantly improving nation-wide communications service. 
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
Forty-three 
^iiv/iys 
CopjTighr 1945, LIGGETT & MVMS TOBACCO CO. 

//£Sr£Rf/£lD 






