tir­
^. 
fJS 
HERE'S ANOTHER WINNER FOR THE SEASON AHEAD 
^mm 
I 
1 
t'd 

THE FAMOUS BATES FLOATERS 
Designed for wear in all kinds of winter weathei\ This shearling-lined boot has fireside wannth with the added advantage of water repellency. Surprisingly lightweight.  ns 95  Available in handsome black or Spanish moss in sizes 6 to 13 in pop­ular widths. The Bates people must have had Michiana weather in mind when they designed the Floater!  r  
^^" -> '  
.''••  1  


GILBERT'S 
/f." Am "-•^isk-Si^S-iS^-:^ 

ON THE CAMPUS... NOTRE DAME msmam. 
CONGRATULATIONS!  
m  
fo  the  team  fhe  coaches  fhe  men of  Nofre  Dame!  
a  
Pv  
iS^S*^^ '-" '^  
\  GILBERT'S  
e^ r^;  ^ampu^^hop'  ? ,,• .*,. j.^-*  
CAMPUS... NOTRE DAME  
-vv­..: ^ ^ ^ '^ ^ ^•^"V -",•"-* ;  

NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A Special Gift — Reserved for Special People 
REGULAR  ­—  CONTOJ K  
BAND  BAND  
.  J  FACE'E C  STON E  .  >^2(.  

SAPPHIRE CENTER . ^ D AMOND DIAMOND OVAL TO^V,EV.R!NG TOP VIEW P:SG =^^^'^^ 
Ih e Meal Chrisfmas Gift" 
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to shore the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the ofRcial ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bonds are illustrated above. 
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS—1964-65 
All rings ore in durable lOK Gold 
Black Ony^ K $20.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 20.00 All-diamond cluster $165.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and bock 20.00 Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire. Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 20.00 synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center.. 100.00 
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and bock 20.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue 20.00 WEDDING BANDS Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spine! Lady's, plain or beaded, Regular $10.00 
No. 1, buff top, faceted back 20.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour . 11.00 Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular. 13.00 No. 2, faceted top and back 20.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 14.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
RiiK Size For MeaaurinX Rocer 
3 4 5 6 7 8 91011 
ORDER yOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
The Scholastic 
1965 Notre Dame FOOTBALL 
TOURS 
^PLAN NOW — 
V 15-DAY PACIFIC NORTHWEST & CALIFORNIA NOTRE DAME vs. CALIFORNIA 
at Berkeley, Calif. 
Lv. Sept. 9 — Ret. Sept. 24 
V 6-DAY NEW YORK NOTRE DAME vs. ARMY 
at Philadelphia, Pa. 
Lv. Oct. 6 — Ret. Oct. 12 
V 10-DAY MIAMI and NASSAU NOTRE DAME vs. MIAMI 
at Miami, Fla. 
Lv. Nov. 21 —Ret. Nov. 30 
V 1-DAY PURDUE 
N.D. vs. PURDUE at West Lafayette, Ind. 
Sept. 25, 1965 
V 3-DAY PinSBURGH NOTRE DAME vs. PITTSBURGH 
at Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Lv. Nov. 5 — Ret. Nov. 7 
FOR FULL INFORMATION or to place name on mailing list, write or phone 
REDDEN 
TRAVEL BUREAU 
1671 Lincolnway East 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
289-9259 

m^ • '--^h-
Exhilarating... IMasculine... 
•^'f* iMAVf LOT" 0":

Fresh as the ocean 
.. . that's the way it is with Old Spice After Shave Lotion! 1.25 and 2.00 
;HULTON 
December 4, 1964 
when Gordie Howe goes boating... 
.^^^ 

'Chap Stick'goes along! 
"Sure I use 'Chap Stick' during the hockey sea­aside. It's just as necessary during the summer. son," says the Detroit Red Wing star. "With my When I'm on my boat, the hot sun is rough on my lips exposed to that ice and cold, it's a must! lips—burns them up, dries them out. 'Chap Stick' But after the season, 'Chap Stick' doesn't get put helps soothe and heal them fast!" 
^ The lip balm selected A favorite • for use by the in Canada f U.S. Olympic Team. 
DON'T LET DRY, SORE LIPS SPOIL YOUR FUN-WHEREVER YOU GO, GO WITH 'CHAP STICIC 
'CHAP STICK- IS SEG. TM ©I«i4 MORTON MFG. CORP., LYNCHIUM. 1 
Porks O.H.V. Engine Easily • FRANKIE's Restaurant 
Anywhere No Mixing Free Deliveries to Circle Oil & Gas 
200 MPG -i^ 
• Free Demonstration Uw as $281.75 
Nighriy Specials for StudenH 

Rides 
"You Meet the Nicest People on a Honda" $1.00 & Up 
HONDA ^ OF MICHIANA, INC. 
Open 7 Days a Week 

Phone Open 2531 UNCOLNWAY WEST — MISHAWAKA 255-2388 233.1115 1003 N. NOTRE DAME AVE. 
ltS^:l::l 3 B,ocfa 50S, of Shopper. Fo,> 
The Scholastic 
Contmet Lems SpecuUst 
Dr. T. R. Piol 
Optometrist 
• EYES EZABONED OPnCU BEPJUBS GLASSES FITTED 

212 S. Michigan 234-4874 
ICE SKATES 
(Hockey & Rgure) 
& 
SKI CLOTHING Reco Sporting Goods 
113 N. Main St. 

CHARTERS-PACKAGE EXPRES! 
Next to OUT«r Hotel Phone: 287-0200 — South Bend 
Ljongratulations to . . . 
1964 FIGHTING IRISH 
and especially 
A GREAT GROUP OF SENIORS 
John Atamian  Tim Devine  Joe Kantor  Tom Mittlehauser  
Sandy Bonvechio  Dick Dupuis  Tom Kostelnik  Norm Nicola  
Jim Carroll  Joe Farrell  Ken Maglicic  Nick Rassas  
Paul Costa  Tom Harding  Vince Mattera  Jack Snow  
Vince Dennery  John Huarte  John Meyer  Jim Snowden  
Gerry Tubinis  

CLASS OF 1965 
December 4, 1964 

'.J>....Mj^O!SiS!ectXBStim matlxi'mxmLuuJl»lmieaaSM 
1. Check and mate. How about 2. Let's act it out. I'll be another game? the boss. Try and sell me. 
I'd like to, Fred, but Okay. 
I have to get set for 
a job interview. 

3. "Good morning, Mr. Fishwick." 4. "Just give me the facts.' 
"Hi tliere, Freddie boy, "Well, sir, I took Quine's 
buddy, old pal." course in mathematical logic, got a B in Wittgenstein's linguistic analysis, and I'm a bug on lOth-centuiy Flemish painting." 
5. "You seem well rounded. 6. "You're just the kind of man we 
\\'hat's vour major?" need—a disciplined thinker who can tie a lot of things together 
•Musicology, cum laude. ^nj „se jo ic ^o solve complex But I m getting my M.A. business problems. The M.A. in e.xpenmental psych. j^^jp^^ t^^ Systems engineering 
or operations research work at Equitable is for you." 
Say, how'd you know I'm inter\'iewing with Equitable? 
For complete information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to Edward D. McDougal, Manager, Manpower Development Division. 
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 © 1964 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
AW C'MON SWEETIE ­LEMNAE IN... 

AFTER LAST NITE? FORGET IT.' 
I COT THE HEW, JAN\AL­'NAKED ClTy 
TUEtA£" oM^ tki JOHNKiy MASH-'COM­POSER'S CHOICE ALBUMS... 

...WELL! CMON IN TIGER/ 
NAKED CITY THE«£|AHMM»Jftl»AL 
^. • it% 
CiSiDSER'SCHnCEiJSiHYIASH 
ARG O RECORDS 

^eoddilful ^uU Colon. Mu^ai 
University oF Notre Dame Campus 
Varnished surface Ideal for Full-Color framing 
27" X 42" 
•Reproduction Colorful of Decoration Notre Dame for Campus Home, Den Painting 
or Office 

John Berlcey, one of America's finest artists was recently commissioned to complete this beautiful full-color painting of our campus. The panoramic aerial view includes Morris Inn, each campus building, the stadium, Golden Dome, and the recently completed $7,000,000 Library. 
Printed in full-color by Brown & Bigelow on heavy durable paper, each mural has a protective coating and can be proudly displayed in your home, den or ofFice for years. 
As you, your friends and associates view this painting, you can be proud of your alma mater, nostalgically recall undergraduate days and happy events of college life. 
Ideal as a gift for alumni, students and friends of Notre Dame. Mounted ar\6 framed, it will become a treasured, colorful decoration for your home or ofRce. 
LIMITED SUPPLY ORDER YOURS TODAV ONLY $5.00 each 
CLIP AND MAIL TODAY 
Name The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Street. Notre Dome, Indiana 46556 
City State. 
• Check for $5.00 Attached 
December 4, 1964 
Tom Huck sought scientific excitement 
He's finding it at Western Electric 
Ohio University conferred a B.S.E.E. degree on 
C. T. Huck in 1956. Tom knew of Western Elec­tric's history of manufacturing development. He realized, too, that our personnel development pro­gram was expanding to meet tomorrow's demands. 
After graduation, Tom immediately began to work on the development of electronic switching systems. Then, in 1958, Tom went to the Bell Tele­phone Laboratories on a temporary assignment to help in the advancement of our national military capabilities. At their Whippany, New Jersey, labs, Tom worked with the W.E. development team on computer circuitry for the Nike Zeus guidance sys­tem. Tom then moved on to a new assignment at W.E.'s Columbus, Ohio, Works. There, Tom is work­ing on the development of testing circuitry for the memory phase of electronic switching systems. 
This constant challenge of the totally new, combined with advanced training and education opportunities, make a Western Electric career enjoyable, stimulating and fruitful. Thousands of young men will realize this in the next few years. How about you? 
If responsibility and the challenge of the future appeal to you, and you have the qualifications we are looking for, talk with us. Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now for electrical, mechani­cal and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. And be sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. 
l^i^St^Ftt £ICCtriCMANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEI^ 
« N EQU*L OPPORTUNITY EHPtOYER 

Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities D Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J.DTeletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. D General Headquarters, New York City 
The Scholastic 
Vol. 106 No. 8 
December 4, 1964 
editors-in-chief 
JOHN WHELAN REX LARDNER 
photography 
PAT FORD 
layout editor 
JIM FINCH 
special contributors 
STEVE ANDERSON TOM BETTAG MIKE BRADLEY BILL CRAGG JERRY LANE JAMIE McKENNA JOHN TWOHEY 
business manager DAVE McELROY 
faculty advisor 
FRANK O'MALLEY 

PHOTO CREDITS: Lieut. J. T. Wol­kerstorfer (21), Fran k G. Clarke (25-26), Phil Brady (32), Bernie Leroe (31). 
The Football Review !s a. regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, the SCHOL-XSIIC is accepted for mail­ing at a special postage rate aiitliorized June 23, 1918. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
football 
CONTENTS 
On Being Number One 13 Still Champions 14 Individual Game Summaries 18-31 Wisconsin 19 Purdue 20 Air Force 21 UCLA 23 Stanford 24 Navy 25 Pittsburgh 26 Michigan State 29 Iowa 30 Southern California 31 
The Heisman Trophy 32 The Offense 34 The Defense - 36 Brotherly Unlove - 38 The All-Opponents Team 40 Preparing for the Future 41 Six Days for Sixty Minutes
 42 On the Fringe
 44 Statistics 48 
THE COVER: 
Artist John Bellamy captures the thrust of a Jim Carroll tackle. It was tackles like these coupled with Carroll's in­spiring leadership that earned him All-American honors. 
December 4, 1964 
JAMi. 
@ AN DY WILLIAMS .1 1 1-*^3^^ ^'ir 
CHRISTMAS ALBUNfc^' 
m 
f<^:r. •|­
yi 

CL 2087/CS 8887»/CQ 596t CL 2076/CS 8876=/CQ 589t It's an old-fashioned Christmas Robert Goulet sends a warm as Andy sings traditional favor- holiday greeting that includes ^ ites. "Jingle Bells," "The Little "White Christmas," "Winter Drummer Boy," "Sweet Little Wonderland," "Ave Maria" and Jesus Boy" and 9 more. 9 more Yuletide favorites. 
^

@ *^s^^* 
^Tm

^-< 
^^^1

^RATGO ^^tt^^ 
K* 
>T^ 

i ^mtmamm^^ 
^••-r-ML 5899/MS 6499°/MQ 590t CL 1892/CS 8692»/CQ 484t Leonard Bernstein conducting Ray Conniff sets the mood for the New York Philharmonic and holiday cheer. Favorite Christ­the Mormon Tabernacle Choir mas carols. "The Little Drum­
in a program of favorite Christ-mer Boy," "0 Holy Night," . mas music. 
"The First Noel" and 11 more. 
Decorate Your Home With Music 
COLUMBIA RECORDS^ TO GIVE, TO HAVE, TO SHARE 
'Stereo fTape ®'COLUMStA.gMAnC*S KG PRMTEO M US A. 
Available of 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
The Scholastl 

On Being Number One 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 

TT'S DARK OUTSIDE and cold. There is a strange quiet on a -^ campus that usually is pretty noisy. Of course, most of you are away for Thanksgiving and probably matching, for the moment, the mood of this place on the evening of Saturday, November 28, 1964. As a famous politician said on losing the presidential election, "I'm too old to cry, and not old enough not to feel the hurt." 
Ten weeks ago, none of you expected the extraordinary season we've had. Certainly, no one expected Notre Dame to be No. 1 for a number of weeks and to come within two minutes of the National Championship. Southern California had done it to us before, and we have done it to them, too, but somehow the world went on, the sun rose again the next morning, and people began to dream of next year. That's football and, in a sense, that's life too — we Ccin never be sure of total victory, not even of eternal salvation, until we've won it. And win it we must, day by day, even minute by minute. Don't ever stop wanting to be No. 1, but especially don't ever stop trying. 
I'm certainly not saying the team stopped trying. They have been great all year and, if anything, have given us far more than we could have hoped for. I salute them, one and all. They carried the burden of long hours of practice, the bruises, the blood, sweat, and tears that gave us nine victories out of ten stairts, and a revitalized tradi­tion of great games and a great pride in winning against the best in the land. 
All through this exciting fall, especially since becom­ing No. 1, I've been sorely tempted to write a few words to all of you — non-team members, but Notre Darners aU the same — about some of the things that made us less than No. 1. The heart of sport is spirit. Notre Dame spirit has been our greatest boast over the years, even when we were losing. This is what brought Coach Parseghian here — even when the prospects looked rather dismal last fall. 
Spirit you have. No doubt about that. But we have to remind ourselves at times that spirit is more than noise. It has a kinship with the spiritual in sport. In this sense, it's called sportsmanship. This kind of spirit never abuses a competitor — without him there would be no game — and with him, what takes place can be ex­citing, thrilling, even hard-nosed without degenerating into cheap abuse, disrespect, or a boorish lack of fair play. After all, it is still a game. In the Middle Ages when games were often a matter of life and death, there was still a spiritual quality to them called chivalry. 
This is the imwritten code that makes sport different than crude brutality, and spirit in sport is something quite different than mere noise, bombs, mob mentality, sick humor, and toilet paper. One of the greatest signs of immaturity is not to be capable of living with success, without becoming arrogant, boorish, or just plain im­bearable. Those who win success the hard way, like the tecuh, rarely show these impleasant qualities — only those who ride lie coattails of success the easy way do. 
Having said all this, and I realize it applies madnly to a minority of Notre Dame men, may I say that its appearance on campus this fall puts a new responsibility on the majority who do want to be good sports. If Notre Dame is not teaching you to be responsible as individuals, to be independent of the mass mentality, to be unwilling to be classed with the lowest common denominator, then the educational process isn't taking hold, and we will deserve the growing bad name we have begun to acquire this fall — even while achieving great success. 
I happen to believe that our student body has every capability of being No. 1, and should be so in every way, be it sports, or honor system, or academic or spiritual achievement. All I'm really saying is that life goes on, the challenge remains and it will be a really dark and cold place here if we ever lose the desire to be No. 1 in everything we do, or lack grace and style and hiraianity in doing it. 
December 4, 1964 

«!(M««ltS»»«*^ 
. ,/ '^-^ 
feWhg-iv^r 
l^^^4,^^^*^ir^^*^^^"^^si^^^ \, ­
•m^ 

\< 
;.ti5^i£^c>w^.<^e-A-:::^^v- •:< "^,­

w««raang^S^»aE^:^E!^j^l 
STILL CHAMPIONS 
T T IS UNFORTUNATE that two minutes A can tarnish the success of five hundred and ninety-eight. It is easy to forget those five hundred minutes, to lose them in the disappointment caused by two. It is easy, but not just. 
In successive weeks Notre Dame de­feated Wisconsin, Purdue, Air Force, UCLA, Stanford, Navy, Pittsburgh and Iowa. In the final week Notre Dame lost to, but was not beaten by Southern California. 
But more than nine victories and one loss remain of the 1964 season— there are memories that won't fade. The first of the long Huarte-to-Snow touchdown passes; many more fol­lowed, this one was special because so novel. Alan Page's dash to the goal line with a Kevin Hardy-blocked punt, his out-of-breath smile as he was pounded by joyful teammates. The baffling fakes of John Huarte against Air Force; the line, swarming past helpless Air Force blockers to throw quarterback Murphy for loss after loss. Tony Carey's acrobatic inter­ceptions. Looking at the statistics af­ter the Stanford game and realizing that the season was only half over and at this rate. . . . The most nearly perfect play of the season — Huarte faking a handoff, putting the ball be­hind his hip and standing absolutely still, like a matador, daring the Navy line to guess that he had the ball, and then in a single quick movement arching a pass that Snow caught without altering his stride a fraction. The tension of the Pittsburgh game, the last-ditch tackle of Carroll and Regner. That incredible "Hate State" week — from the buttons to the im­promptu pep rallies, to Nick Eddy's run, to John Atamian's block, to the contented feeling that could only be savored for a day because unforgiv­ably flawed by maliciousness. Cold toes and warm throat at the Iowa game. Sorrow and disappointment un­bearably intensified but irrevocably there after the loss to Southern Cali­fornia. 
The magnitude of what this team accomplished can't be measured fully by its won-and-lost record, or by the impression it made on one fan. Be­fore the season began the 1964 Irish were labelled mediocre by every foot­ball expert in the country. Yet the Irish won nine games and nearly won them an. 
In doing so they totally dominated the 1964 football season. Their feats daily filled the sports pages of news­papers in every section of the coun­try, and stories appeared in nearly every national magazine. Notre Dame captured and focused the attention of sports fans everywhere. The story of this team, a team that came out of nowhere to revive a football legend was the sports story of the year. 
'T'His STORY is seen as even more re­
-'- markable when contrasted to the season of another team, a team with a better record, Alabama. Alabama won ten games this year and lost none. The Alabama team defeated Georgia, Tulane, Vanderbilt, North Carolina State, Tennessee, Florida, Mississippi State, LSU, Georgia Tech and Auburn. To say that this schedule is easier than Notre Dame's is understatement, to say it is a farce is truism, to say that on account of it Alabama does not deserve to be national champion is a defensible proposition. 
It is an obvious observation but true that Alabama plays only south­ern teams so if the word "national" means anything Alabama is not the national champion — Alabama is Southeast Conference champion and nothing more. Notre Dame has played and beaten two eastern teams, four midwestern teams, and three from the west. 
It is an equally obvious, though less charitable observation that seven of the ten teams Alabama defeated are "patsies" — hardly deserving to be called football teams. In the last seven years only three of Alabama's "op­ponents" have been ranked among the nation's top ten: Auburn (three times, in 1962, 1958 and 1957), LSU (three times, in 1962, 1961 and 1959) and Georgia (once, in 1959). Of the ten teams Notre Dame played this year seven have been ranked among the top ten in those same years: Wiscon­sin (three times, in 1962, 1959 and 1958), Michigan State (three times, in 1963, 1961 and 1957), Iowa (three times, in 1950, 1958 and 1957), Navy (three times, in 1963, 1960 and 1957), Air Force (once, in 1958), Pittsburgh (once, in 1963), and Southern Cali­fornia (once, in 1962). Year in, year out, the teams Notre Dame plays are good, strong football teams — Notre Dame schedules no breathers; a per­fect season against such opposition practically requires a miracle. 
A relentless schedule like this causes losses in many ways. Having to "be up" for every game is an awe­s 0 m e physical and psychological strain. Having a tough schedule means the first-string players have to play longer, harder — injuries are the inevitable result. And with no breath­ers the injuries are bound to be costly. If a key Alabama player were in­jured against Tulane (admittedly an unlikely prospect) the injury wouldn't be important for five games, but an injury to Notre Dame in any game is crucial. Not only doesn't Alabama play a national schedule, the schedule it does play wouldn't qualify a team to be champion of the Little League. 
Unhappily, none of this really 

December 4, 1964 
shows that Alabama itself is a weak team. The fact that Alabama only plays weak teams doesn't mean that it can't defeat good ones. A team can't win games it doesn't play. For­tunately, there is another way to evaluate teams. It is a cliche but true that a team is only as good as its players. The problem is how to evalu­ate Alabama's players. The National Football League scouts are an impar­tial group with one objective: to find the best football players in the coun­try, whether they be southern or northern, eastern or western. 
Including the players that were drafted last year and those already playin g in the NFL, Alabama's "grand" total is three. This small number is more notable when it is realized that Alabama has finished among the top ten teams for the last five years in a row: last year they were ninth, in 1962 they were fifth, in 1961, first, and in 1960 and 1959, tenth. Notre Dame has been among the top ten teams but once in the last seven years (the Irish were ninth in 1957). Yet Notre Dame has a total of twenty-eight players either drafted last year or already playing in the National Football League. The con­trast is glaring and the conclusion is inescapable. Alabama does not de­serve to be national champion, be­cause Alabama plays a strictly south­ern schedule composed of inferior teams, and wins with patently infer­ior players. Notre Dame does deserve the honor because the Irish consist­ently play the toughest schedule in the country; that schedule is national, and it produces the finest players in the land. 
N
OTRE DAME was a better team in defeat than Alabama was in vic­tory. Alabama won its last game against Auburn, by a score of 21-14. Mighty "Bama's" first score was an errant pass from center that was re­covered in the end zone, its second was a 108-yard kickoff return, the third was the result of a long run aind a 30-yard pass. Each of these scores was the result of an overt defensive mistake. During the rest of the game Alabama was pushed all over the field, rarely running more than two offen­sive plays before punting. Alabama was beaten every way but on the scoreboard by a team that had lost three games against that same weak Southeastern Conference schedule. 
Notre Dame lost by only three points to Southern California though every break went against the Irish. But for two crucial penalties and a fumble Notre Dame would have won 31-13, and deservedly so; the team outplaye d Southern California in every way. First downs: 27-19, total yardage: 428-372, rushing yardage: 156-147, passing yardage: 272-225. 
Alabama won like a loser — Notre Dame lost like a champion. 
r>UT STILL NONE of this reaUy con­••-' soles, nothing can change what happened. We can't close our eyes and make the loss go away by com­plaining of injustice, or musing over inscrutable "breaks." Notre Dame is nine and one — what could have been is not. The outcome of the season is irrevocably settled. 
Viewed in immediacy the two min­utes of loss loom over the entire sea­son. But time will restore things to perspective and the 1964 season will remain with us as happy memories tinged with just a little disappoint­ment. 
—JOHN WHELAN 
F
OR NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL, 1964 wa? the year of the miracle worker— Ara Parseghian. In the course of om year, Notre Dame went from a disma; 2-7 record to a position of nationa' prominence. The success of this year'r team is the result of many things: t competent group of assistant coaches, headed by John Ray and Tom Pagna: the development of three Ail-Ameri­cans, one of whom won the Heisman Trophy; the spirit, pride, and confi­dence generated by the entire team; and most important, Ara Parseghian. 
By accepting the position as head football coach at Notre Dame last December, Parseghian met the great­est challenge of his coaching career. After signing a four-year contract the new Irish coach immediately went to work. 
Parseghian brought a few assistant coaches with him from Northwestern to the Notre Dame campus. He also hired John Ray as defensive line coach, previously the head mentor at John Carroll College of Cleveland. 

In early January, a team meeting was held in which the coaches were introduced to the squad members and Parseghian's philosophy ex­plained. "Football games are won by teams that are both physically and mentally alert. We will be at our peak for every game we play this year." 
Likewise, disciplinary action was taken. Every team member was to abstain from alcohol and cigarettes 12 months of the year. An honor sys­tem was then arranged in order to enforce the rules. Workouts began the next day. 
By February, a new atmosphere was present — students and faculty members thought the possibility of a winning season might not be a dream. Thoughts became even more optimistic when the first February pep rally was staged at the steps of Sorin Hall. 
A dynamic, electrifying man was introduced to the Notre Dame stu­dent body for the first time. Parse­ghian held the mike and 2,500 stu­dents in his hand. A forceful, pur­suasive speaker, the new coach pro­mised a "well-coached, well-condi­tioned team that would win football games." 
When spring practice began, flocks of faithful students observed weekly scrimmages. From an analysis of game films and actual performance in contact work, adjustments were made both offensively and defensive ly. Still, the Varsity was barely abl­to beat the Old-Timers in their trs ditional game, 30-23. 
Sports Illustrated commented un favorably about Notre Dame's foor 
The Scholastic 

ball prospects in September. "Ara Parseghian is an impatient, determined man, convinced he can return Notre Dame to its position of dominance in college football, and he undoubtedly will one day — but not in 1964. This year he will hope for the best, which could be a break-even season." Yet, the following months illustrate one of the greatest comebacks in football history. 
P
ARSEGHIAN CAME to Notre Dame where recent football teams had a losing tradition. The basic problem was one of morale, teaching beaten players they could win. Notre Dame failed to produce winning teams since 1958, and her image had suf­fered. With 16 lettermen back, Par­seghian hoped to start producing, "consistently winning seasons." 
The 1964 Fighting Irish were a self-confident group, exemplifying pride and enthusiasm in everything they did. More unity and teamwork was shown in this year's squad than in the past three seasons combined. 
One of Parseghian's achievements was the development of John Huarte. In September it was thought that Huarte would be lucky if he received a monogram this year. As it turned out, he got the Heisman Trophy. Par­seghian instilled confidence and de­sire into his nonletterman passer, and Huarte responded superbly: he completed 114 of 205 passes for 2,062 yards and 16 touchdowns. He also di­rected the team flawlessly, faked expertly, and besides the Heisman award, made several All-America teams. 
The Jack Snow Story also has a Parseghian copyright. Snow was switched from halfback to split-end where he could make use of his speed, size, and moves. As a result the All-America end broke almost every pass-catching record in Notre Dame his­tory, though his 70 career catches fell one short of the all-time record, held by Joe Heap. 
Captain and linebacker Jim Car­roll, Notre Dame's third All-American, played offensive and defensive guard as a sophomore and junior. By an analysis of game films and Carroll's overall performance in spring prac­tice, the Irish captain became a center linebacker. The switch proved to be worth it. Carroll led the defensive squad deftly, developed into one of the finest linebackers in the country, and averaged over 14 tackles a game. 
By forming a separate offense and defense, Parseghian came up with two strong units, one always ready to play. The two-platoon system fit right into his plans. 
Lack of depth at certain key posi­tions hurt the Irish somewhat during the course of the season. The loss of Jim Lynch at left comer linebacker was a definite weakness in the Pitt game. A shoulder injury to Alan Page midway through the Southern Cal game considerably hampere d the Notre Dame defense. But overall team speed, which Parseghian said was poor at the start of 1964, was more than adequate. 
On offensive. Coaches Doc Urich and Tom Pagna helped develop a po­tent attack. In Phil Sheridan, the Irish had an excellent tight end; someone big who could block effectively yet be a threat as a pass receiver. 
Interior linemen John Meyer, Jim Snowden, Bob Meeker, and Norm Nicola gave the Irish excellent inside blocking. Guards Dick Arrington and John Atamian blocked superlatively downfield as well as on end sweeps. 
In the backfield, Eddy and Wolski gave the Irish a potent inside-outside running attack. The two combined for over 1,000 yards rushing. Fullback Joe Farrell had his best year, and Joe Kantor was an adequate replacement in the Southern Cal game. 
The forward wall of John Ray's de­fense was composed of four sopho­more linemen — Alan Page, Kevin Hardy, Tom Regner, and Don emit­ter. Though inexperienced, the four played like veterans, accounting for over 200 tackles. Seniors Carroll, Tom Kostelnik, and Ken Maglicic handled the linebacking chores expertly. Cov­erted end Jim Ljmch was outstanding as a sophomore, and Arunas Vasys, who replaced Lynch late in the season, filled in well. 
A unit of its own — Paul Shoults' defensive secondary — accounted for 13 interceptions. Unheralded star Nick Rassas, besides leading the team in punt returns, was one of the surest tacklers on the team. Tom Longo played the left comerback position well, and Tony Carey developed into one of the finest pass-coverage artists in the nation. Carey himself finished the season with eight interceptions. 
Besides the dynamic, forceful influ­ence of Parseghian, the work of his assistants, and the performance of the team themselves, success in 1964 was also a result of the psychological build-up for each game. 
Stars on the helmets of those defen­sive players that intercepted passes was an idea uniquely Parseghian's. Signs on lockers and bulletin boards helped prepare the team mentally for each game. Even Parseghian's own participation in practic e sessions livened spirits and strengthened the unity of the team. 
The "Buzzer System" was an added incentive during practice drills. Daily workouts were planned so that a player did not have an idle moment. New drills such as the "50-second count" were also instituted by Parse­ghian. 
There were also sjonbols of the 1964 season — various "Hate State" and other buttons, pre-midnight pep rallies on the main quad, and articles concerning the resurgence of Notre Dame football in national magazines. During the season. Life, Sports Illus­trated, Newsweek, Time, and The Sat­urday Evening Post all ran features on the "New Era of Irish Football." 
All of these ingredients were a part of Notre Dame football this fall. But what was most important was the team's actual performance — a 9-1 record and a national rating. 
For the quality of ND football, Duffy Daugherty can speak truthful­ly: "If there is a better team in the world, I'd sure hate to play them." Ara Parseghian — the miracle worker 
— has restored Notre Dame football to national prominence. 
— REX LARDNER 

December 4, 1964 
•^ 
•% ^ 

^ 
4 % 
18 * 
^.?*.*. .-•f*» ^•^•-1 ^ ^.^^^ ST.*:--.?..•»  
•x : C^  
Ml  

Unveiling The ^'Bontb 99 
M
ADISON^ WISCONSIN, September 26 — A sellout crowd of 64,398 braved wind and rain today to see the unveiling of Ara Parseghian's first Notre Dame football team. The Fighting Irish displayed their wares handsome­ly and overwhelmed the Wisconsin Badgers, 31-7. 
The new Huarte to Snow combination netted 217 yards, a Notre Dame receiving record. The defense proved itself, holding the Badgers to —51 yards rushing. Tony Carey pulled in two interceptions which stopped the vaunted Wisconsin passing game. 
Neither team could break past their opponents' 40 until late in the first quarter. A Carey interception on the Wisconsin 33 allowed Ken Ivan to kick a 31-yard field goal when the Irish attack stalled with 6 seconds left in the quarter. 
Five plays later Carey made his second interception of a Wisconsin pass and he returned it 21 yards to the Wisconsin 38. The offense could not move the ball in three plays, and a 56-yard field goal attempt by Longo failed. 
Wisconsin took the ball from their own 20 to the Notre Dame 12 before they were stopped and a field goal attempt was wide. Notre Dame teased Wisconsin with two runs and then unleashed its new weapon. Jack Snow bolted from the line, outran his defender, and John Huarte fired "the bomb." The play netted 61 yards, and the extra point hiked the Irish lead to 10-0. 
Four plays later the Irish were again in possession and moving fast. John Huarte's passing carried the Irish 56 yards in five plays to the Wisconsin 5, but the Wis­consin defense stiffened, and Ken Ivan was forced to kick his second field goal of the day with 18 seconds remaining in the half. Notre Dame led 13-0. 
December 4, 1964 
The next quarter was no time for complacency. With little over four minutes elapsed, Harold Brandt passed to Jimmy Jones for 45 yards and a touchdown. The kick was good, and the Irish lead was cut to six points, 13-7. 
Notre Dame could not keep moving, and Wisconsin took over after Ken Ivan missed a 46-yard field goal. Brandt hit Jones for 21 yards. The Badgers seemed to be on the move but the Notre Dame defense tightened. The end had come for Wisconsin. Brandt was thrown for two consecutive 8-yard losses (see cuts), thus setting the ball back to the 10. A bad punt gave the Irish the ball on Wisconsin's 29. Kantor scored off tackle on the first play of the fourth quarter to put Notre Dame solidly ahead, 19-7. A pass for two points was incomplete. 
After three unsuccessful plays Wisconsin punted. Bill Wolski climaxed a 45-yard drive, scoring from the two. Five minutes later a 42-yard Huarte to Snow pass com­pleted an 87-yard drive. Neither conversion was good, and with 3:12 left in the game the Irish had a 31-7 margin. 
BiU Wolski and Nick Eddy led the Irish ground attack and were the two leading rushers in the game. Quarter­back Huarte made a rather auspicious debut, completing 15 of 24 passes, two of which were touchdowns. Defen­sively, Coach John Ray's sophomore line harassed Badger backs all afternoon. Quarterback Brandt spent most of the time eating the ball, rather than throwing it. 
Notre Dame students had swarmed into Madison to get a glimpse of their 1964 squad. They got that glimpse, and some returned to South Bend yelling, "We're number 
one. —^ToM BETTAG 
Breaks Beat 
Boilermakers 
N
OTRE DAME^ INDIANA^ October 3 — Riding high after a surprising opening game victory over Wisconsin, the Irish were quickly brought back to earth midway through the first quarter by a determined, hard-hitting Purdue team. Marching 75 yards in twelve plays, the Boilermakers drew first blood in very convincing fashion. Largely responsible for their initial success was Bob Griese, a newcomer to the long list of outstanding Purdue quarterbacks, who accounted for 57 yards and the touch­down on a quarterback sneak. 
The Irish countered with the end sweeps of Nick Eddy and drove down to the Purdue 3-yard line. Here the attack stalled and Ken Ivan's field goal attempt was blocked. After an exchange of punts, John Huarte split the Pur­due secondary with two over-the-middle passes to Jack Snow, again moving the ball to the 3-yard line. This time BUI WolsM (see cut) ended the frustration, smash­ing into the end zone to tie the score. 
Later in the second quarter, Tom Longo picked up his second interception of the day at the Purdue 47. Seven plays later Huarte flipped a two-yard scoring pass to Jack Snow and the Irish took a 14-7 lead into the locker room at the half. 
Twice in the first half the defensive line came within a hand's reach of blocking a Purdue punt. Early in the third period, after both teams had sputtered on offense, Purdue again was forced into a punting situation. This time they never had a chance. Kevin Hardy and Alan Page, two pro-sized linemen, crashed into the Purdue secondary, almost before the punter had the ball. It caromed off Hardy's chest into the eager hands of Page who wasted little time rambling 57 yards into the end zone untouched. 
Any hopes for a Purdue comeback were crushed on the next series of downs as the inspired defensive unit again forced the Boilermakers to punt. Starting on their own 24, the steady running of Wolski, Eddy, and Farrell drove the Irish deep into Purdue territory. Pete Andre­otti then took a pitchout at the 23-yard line, shpped through four Purdue defenders, and dashed into the end zone. Ken Ivan's fourth straight placement made the score 28-7. 
After two Griese to Hadrick completions, Tony Carey stepped in and recorded the third Irish steal of the day, returning it 28 yards to the Notre Dame 40. A penalty pushed the Irish back to the 27-yard line. On third down and long yardage. Jack Snow boomed a quick kick 70 yards to the Purdue 3 where a Purdue blocker accidentally touched the ball. Phil Sheridan recovered it. Two plays later, Huarte tossed a quick pass to Nick Rassas for Notre Dame's fifth score of the afternoon. Ivan's kick hit the upright. 
Purdue scored in the final minutes against the second unit making the final score 34-15. By then little remained of their once-potent offense. Led by Jim Carroll's 21 tackles, the Irish defensive unit forced many of the breaks which the offense capitalized on. Three interceptions, a blocked punt and a quick kick recovery separated two otherwise evenly matched teams. 
—^MiKE BRADLEY 
The Scholastic 
tasgy»>g!jiya'f^g:»'^^%»»«'yj:ssi^>ssyt^ 
m^^^ss^m^Ds^ifffssi^B^^^^^^^^^^^s^^ss 
L  
l^ 11  
'%.'.:  
.v^­ 
\ .  
>i13t4.v  ^^.  
"Flyin' High"  

/ ^ OLORADO SPRINGS, COLO._, Oct. 10 — Led by the superb ^-^ passing and running of quarterback John Huarte, who accounted for four touchdowns, Notre Dame won their third straight game by defeating the Air Force Academy, 34-7. Over 650 Irish students, enjoying the annual student trip, witnessed the massacre in sunny Falcon Stadium. 
Quarterback Huarte ran for scores of one and five yards and passed for two touchdowns to Bill Wolski and Jack Snow. Defensively, the Irish limited the Academy to 38 yards on the ground, 123 in the air. Falcon signal caller Tim Murphy could only muster one completion in the second half. He hit on 10 of 15 in the first thirty minutes. 
On Notre Dame's third play of the game, a Huarte pass was intercepted by Falcon defensive back Jeff Jarvis, and returned 25 yards for the Academy's only touchdown. Behind 7-0, Huarte went to work. 
Three successive plunges tightened up the Falcon de­fense. Huarte then handed off to Nick Eddy who twisted and turned around right end for a touchdown. Ken Ivan's conversion made it a 7-7 deadlock. 
After a Falcon punt, the Irish began rolling again. Wolski banged off tackle for five. Farrell hit left guard for six. Huarte then rifled a bullet to Snow for a first down on the Falcon 7. Three plunges over center netted two yards. On fourth and goal at the five, Huarte faked to Farrell off right tackle, delayed a count by hiding the ball behind his back and trotted around right end for the score. His ball-handling faked out many a cameraman and broadcaster, as well as the entire Falcon defense. At half time, Notre Dame led, 14-7. 
In the middle of the third quarter, Huarte started another drive. He fired a 13-yard pass to Snow for a first down at the Academy 37. Eddy circled left end (see cut) for 12 on fine blocks by guards John Atamian and Dick Arrington. Huarte then kept for six, Eddy lost eight after fumbling a lateral, but Wolski smashed his way off tackle to the Falcon 5. An illegal procedure penalty nullified the run. On the next play, flanker back Wolski faked to the middle and cut to the outside to receive a Huarte pass for 19 yards and six points. With 4:50 re­maining in the period, Notre Dame led, 21-7. 
The Irish defensive secondeuy then went to work. Four-Star General Tony Carey speared a Murphy pass and weaved his way 22 yards to the Academy 9-yard line. Three plunges by Joe Farrell netted 8 yards. On fourth and one, Huarte sneaked over for his second touchdown. 
The same series repeated itself on the next play. This time saf etyman Nick Rassas picked off a Falcon aerial, and returned it to the 7. After Eddy failed to gain, Huarte faked to Wolski up the middle, and rolled out to his right, firing his second scoring strike to Snow. Although ap­proximately seven minutes remained, this concluded the scoring for the afternoon. 
The Notre Dame defense kept possession of its num­ber-one rushing defense ranking by limiting the Falcon ball carriers to 38 yards. Murphy was thrown for a net loss of 11 yards. 
Offensively, Bill Wolski led the Irish in rushing for the third straight week with 83 yards in 14 attempts. John Huarte hit on 7 of 15 passes while fellow-Califomian Jack Snow caught five passes. 
In the locker room, writers of all sorts were baiting Coach Parseghian into long-range predictions. He had only one comment: "Right now we're looking to next week and UCLA." 
—^REX LARDNER 

.w^ 

fe?t% 
1w<^ 
•?#, si 

1 :• ^1 
7^\^

•^•QTRE DAME^ INDIANA^ October 18 — Larry Zeno is 
•^^ as versatile as a three-ring circus. He runs like a halfback, tries more passes than a sailor on Saturday leave, and kicks field goals better than any of his 49 
Sssmeared
teammates. But one man still does not make a team and 
today Notre Dame won its first shutout, 24-0. 
Since the UCLA running game was merely average, and with the Irish granting only .79 yards a carry, it would take the Bruins 126 plays to march down the field. Practical Coach Barnes thus rejected a running game and left it up to Zeno; but Larry was this afternoon's marked man (see cut) and never got a chance to prove why, after three games, he was the top total offense man in the country. 
So it remained for Huarte to uphold the good name of quarterbacks everywhere; and today he hardly missed. Fifteen times he threw the ball and ten times it hit home. Phil Sheridan snatched one Huarte aerial for 37 yards and six points. Of the six passes Jack Snow caught, one resulted in an Irish touchdown. Huarte's faking helped the Irish score on two more drives: A fake to Eddy and a six-yard plunge by FarreU produced one score; a feint to Farrell and a handoff to Wolski for a yard resulted in the other. 
On the third play from scrimmage, Huarte dropped back, looked for all the world like he was going to pass, but slapped the bail instead into Wolski's midriff, who scrambled 33 yards to the Bruin 38. In seven plays, Far­reU, Eddy, and Wolski rammed the ball to the UCLA one-foot line. Wolski cracked over left tackle for the score and when Ivan's kick hit the left upright, Notre Dame led 6-0. 
On the first Irish play in the second quarter Snow streaked through the secondary and Huarte threaded a pass that gained 47 yards. But the Irish attack stalled and Ivan missed a 28-yard field goal. The Uclans took heart and started to move. Zeno passed to Witcher for 19 yards and then to Haffner for 16 more. It was first down on the Irish 37. Back dropped Zeno; he cocked, passed, and Carey had his fifth interception of the sea­son. In five plays Huarte moved the ball to the Uclan 37. Huarte then faded straight back; snapped a hard, flat pass over center; and hit end Sheridan between two de­fenders. Sheridan turned, and streaked straight to the end zone. The conversion failed and at half time Notre Dame led 12-0. 
Less than a minute into the third quarter Zeno was jolted by a Notre Dame rush and halfback Longo gath­ered up his fumble on the Bruin 16. After UCLA repelled Wolski, Huarte, stepping back, spotted Snow slanting across the end zone and flipped a scoring pass. 
After an exchange of punts Zeno raced back, and tried to spot his receiver on the left side of the field. Defensive end Page roared in from the blind side. He rammed Zeno with such force that most men would have given up the ghost but stronger-than-most Zeno clung to that and gave up the ball instead which was recovered by Costa on the Uclan 15. With 6:17 left in the quarter Farrell slashed over for the score. Notre Dame missed the extra point but led 24-0. 
Zeno licked his wounds and tried again. Back he dropped, again his line collapsed, and in slammed Page and Maglicic. Zeno relinquished and again Costa recov­ered; but Notre Dame couldn't score and the fourth quar­ter brought no change. The score remained: Notre Dame 24, UCLA 0. 
—JAMIE MCKENNA 
Decevtber 4, 1964 
i^atm 

Records For The Irish 
N
OTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 25 — If, at the end of today's first half, the Stanford players looked a little pale, it was understandable. They had just been subjected to a statistical whitewashing that left them with a total offense of 31 yards and not a single thrust into Notre Dame territory. Stanford's figures improved little during the second half and though their sum yardage of 56 seemed like sales tax beside the Irish total of 482, the Indians refused to surrender. Finally, late in the fourth quarter, they thrust over a lone score. 
The Irish defensive unit proved near puncture proof. It handed the ball to the offense 14 times and they re­sponded by rolling past three Notre Dame records. In the time it took Stanford to complete four passes, Huarte had attempted 37 and connected on 21. Jack Snow took advantage of Huarte's two record totals by stashing away eight receptions and pushing his season pass yardage to a record 595. But the pass didn't bring Notre Dame all the way. Halfback Bill Wolski, whose speedy starts and flashing knees made holes last a little bit longer than usual, had his finest day in college football. He caught two passes for 60 yards, bsurreled over Stanford defenders for 102 yards in 18 attempts, and scored three of the team's four touchdowns. 
After a scoreless first quarter and with 5:12 of the second period gone, place-kicker Ivan lifted the Irish to a 3-0 lead with a 28-yard field goal. Five minutes later Huarte dropped back from his 46-yard line, looked down-field, and there WELS a lonely, waiting Wolski. Bill took it on Stanford's 16 and idled in untouched. With 53 seconds left in the half, Carey intercepted his sixth pass of the season and in seven plays Huarte had worked the ball down to the Indian one. Huarte pitched to Eddy who zipped around left end. Half-time score, 15-0. 
Stanford had not done well. They had not completed a pass, or even made a first down. The Indian halfback, Ray Handley, who had gone into the game the nation's leading rusher, did not even average three yards per carry. Yet pity had still not come to Notre Dame. 
In the second half Huarte, on his own 17, passed to Farrell for 33 yards and then to Eddy for 17. It took nine plays and a 15-yard penalty to get the ball to the Indian one-foot line. On fourth down Wolski whammed over and Notre Dame led by 22-0. 
With 7:55 elapsed in the third quarter, Stanford's Cook lofted a high pass to end Connelly and Stanford had their first first down — but no more. Maglicic intercepted their next pass and hauled it 25 yards, but Notre Dame faltered. 
After an exchange the Irish got the ball on their 20 and began to bite off yardage in big chunks. Farrell rammed for five, then Kantor went for nine, and Wolski peeled off eleven yards. 
As the fourth quarter started, Huarte hit Snow for 16 yards, and a roughing penalty put the ball on the Stan­ford nine. Wolski punched over right end and upped the score six points. The conversion failed and Notre Dame was ahead 28-0. 
But Stanford, whose attack had been as forceful as a heavy thistle, decided enough was enough. Defensive back Lodota intercepted a pass from reserve Bonvechio and put it on the Irish 32. Two plays and a penalty put the ball on the six-yard line. De Sylvia fired to halfback Lewis in the end zone, and Stanford had earned their six points and a little pride besides. But Notre Dame had won their fifth straight. 
—JAMIE MCKENNA 
The Scholastic 

OHILADELPHU^ PA.^ Oct. 31—^Notre Dame, ranked No. 2 
•'• in the nation and improving every week rocketed to 
their first winning season since 1958 with a fantastic 40-0 
thrashing of rival Navy before 66,752 fans in John F. 
Kennedy Memorial Stadium. 
The contest was a duel between Navy's Heisman Trophy winner of last year, Roger Staubach, and Notre Dame's unsung hero, John Huarte. The Irish quarterback, however, came off the field with most of the laurels. 
Huarte lobbed a screen pass to Nick Eddy early in the 
second quarter to get the Irish going. The sophomore 
sprinter then outran the entire Navy team for 74 yards 
and Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
Under Staubach's direction, the Middies began to move. With look-in and screen passes, and a draw play, Navy found themselves with a first down on the Irish 8-yard line. Staubach then rolled out to his right. Don Gmitter and Jim Lynch swarmed in from the left side of the defense and the ball popped loose. Page clutched it at the 26. 
With Eddy and Wolski taking turns cracking at the Navy defense, the Irish advanced to their own 45. With the Middies bunched, expecting another plunge, Huarte faded back and rifled a long bomb. Split-end Jack Snow caught it in stride and legged it in from the 22. Joe Azzaro made his second conversion and Notre Dame led, 14-0. 
Navy marched 45 yards to the Irish 20 on the next series. On fourth down, Fred Marlin's field goal try from the 27 fell short. With two minutes left in the half, Notre Dame had the ball on their own 20. Huarte went to work again. 
Wolski swept for 12, as did Eddy. Huarte whipped a 44-yard pass to Snow who stepped out of bounds on the 
12. Halfback Wolski then rambled up the middle and after two more plays Notre Dame had a first down on the Navy 1. Wolski then plunged off tackle for 6 points and a 21-0 half-time lead. Huarte had moved the team 80 yards in 8 plays that used up only one minute, 40 seconds. 
After the second-half kickoff, Notre Dame marched 75 yards for their fourth touchdown. In the drive, Wolski smashed for 37 yards and Joe Farrell picked up 20. Farrell scored on a dive off tackle. An interception stopped another Irish drive, but after an exchange of punts, the longest drive of the day took place. 
Wolski ran for two first downs before Huarte hit Snow for 17 yards. Kantor bucked to the Navy 7. Pete Andreotti then circled right end for six yards. On the next play, Husirte rolled out right and threw across the field to Snow in the end zone for his twelfth scoring pass of the year. 
After Tony Carey intercepted a Staubach aerial at the 49, the Irish reserves took over. With BiU Zloch and Sandy Bonvechio alternating at quarterback, Notre Dame drove to a fourth-and-two situation at the Navy 15. Half­back Denny Conway took a pitch around left end and scampered for Notre Dame's last tally. 
Staubach moved the Middies downfield to the Irish 42 before the gun went off. The margin of 40-0 was the worst Navy defeat since 1949. 
Notre Dame's 504 yards total offense was a new high in the season. Huarte hit on 10 of 17 aerials for 177 yards and three touchdowns. BUI Wolski, bulling and spinning his way over and around tacklers, totaled 106 yards in 17 attempts. And Snow's seven catches enabled him to tie Jim Kelly's 1962 mark of 41 catches. 
With their sixth straight victory of the season, Notre Dame convinced many an Eastern skeptic that it was a different football team than those of recent years and worthy of national recognition. —RE X LARDNER 
Sunk 
December 4, 1964 
A Yard is a Yard is a Yard 
piTTSBUKGH, PA.. November 7 — Heard outside Pitt sta­
^ dium: "You see more people you know at a Notre 
Dame game than you do at a wake." Inside, this state­
ment came near to being propiietic as an Irish wake was 
perilously close to reality during the second half. For­
tunately. Irish skies pre\'ailed. and Notre Dame left the 
Panthers in their wake, but barely, 17-15. 
Early in the fourth quarter, the crisis of the game was passed when Fred Mazurek. in a fourth and one situation, was stopped cold on the Irish sixteen by Jim CaiToII and Tom Regner. After this, the game was played at Pitt"s end of the field, and their sputtering last-minute dramatics were finally snuffed out when Tom Kostelnik jumped on Mazurek's reckless lateral with only seconds remaining. 
After Pitt's opening kickoff bounded over the end line, the Irish came on strong and running. Joe Farrell. Nick Eddy, and Bill Wolski took turns powering the ball to the Pitt 36. From the 34. John Huarte fired a bullet to Phil Sheridan for 11 yards, and a first down on the Panther 23. Back lo the running, Farrell hit for five, Wolski drove for three, a face-mask penalty took Notre Dame to the Pitt S. and Eddy spun himself down to the two. Two plays later, Farrell slammed into the end zone. Joe Azzaro converted, and with 9:07 left on the board. Notre Dame led 7-0. 
Following the kickolf Notre Dame forced Pitt to punt and took over on their own 7. After Nick Eddy gained only two yards in two carries, John Huarte rolled back into his own end zone, and floated a pass lo Eddy all alone on the Notre Dame 35. He in turn paralleled the boundary chalk, full speed ahead, for a record-breaking 91-yard touchdown pass. Azzaro made good on his kick, Notre Dame led 14-0. 
Later in the quarter. Notre Dame was maneuvering in their own territory when Pete Andreotti fumbled the ball into the arms of Generalovich on the ND 31. From here, Mazurek and McKnight provided the running, and seven plays later, McKnight barrelled over the goal line from the one. He also cracked over right tackle for a two-pointer, and with 9:07 on the board, Notre Dame led 14-S. 
After the kickoff, Notre Dame mounted an attack which thrived on some long gainers: a fumbling, stumbling catch by Phil Sheridan on the fifty, a 14-yard run by Fai-rell to the Pitt 32. and another pitch to Sheridan on the Pitt 14. The attack stalled, and with 49 seconds left in the half, Joe Azzaro kicked a 30-yard field goal which gave the Irish 17 points which they would have to make good as it breathtakingly turned out. 
The third quarter was all Pittsburgh. Pitt revved their running game into high gear, and again Mazurek and McKnight were at the throttle. Methodically plodding down the field, they managed to eat up the clock and the very heart of Notre Dame's specialty, rushing defense. This time-consuming assault ran out the thii'd quarter, but on the first play of the fourth, McKnight banged the right side of the Irish line, slid off, and slipped into the end zone. Jim Jones converted, and with almost 15 min­utes left to play, Notre Dame had a thin 17-15 lead. 
Shortly thereafter came the moment of truth, the high-water mark of Pittsburgh's desperate cause. Notre Dame held, and for the rest of the quarter, Jack Snow's punting kept Pitt within their own territory. In retrospect, the Irish probably had as many great moments as in their previous six games. Unfortunately, not enough of these great moments were spent in scoring. But then every great team needs at least one squeaker. It builds character and advances the cause of humility. 
—BILL CRAGG 
The Scholastic 

;; •Jc(i*.:.'.-'tJ'C:iii; 
•ifi»M 
^ 
'^•"S}^' 
^¥te 
w 
^ff*.'­

. ^^»3Era(wp-M:^n 
!?.?sifacfiS!33SK«WS:^^S3<gSti"S;S5^^S! 
FINALLY 
N
OTRE DAME^ INDIANA^ November 16 — A ten-year vic­tory famine ended today when the undefeated Irish feasted on Michigan State University, 34-7. Irish appetites were whetted by eight straight losses to the Spartans, and Ara Parseghian proved himself a chef supreme with a skillful preparation of the feast. 
59,265 fans jammed Notre Dame Stadium and millions more watched on national television as Parseghian and the Irish answered several questions. Had the close vic­tory over Pittsburgh been a dire forecast of things to come? Would the loss of key performers Bill Wolski and Jim Lynch hamper Notre Dame? Didn't Michigan State have a conclusive knack with Notre Dame? 
All of these questions were legitimate ones, but the answer to each was a resounding NO. The atmosphere of victory was established in the first three minutes of play. Michigan State was able to gain but four yards in three running plays, and was forced to punt. The Irish proceeded to pull some surprises out of Ara's magic hat. They abandoned their traditional I-formation, and lined up in a double wing. Before the Spartans could adjust their defenses, Nick Eddy (see cut) had swept right end and then veered left as a crushing block by John Atamian sprang him loose on a 61-yard touchdown jaunt. 
Soon after, Michigan State was forced to give up the ball on their own 49. Aftei' Eddy ran for four, Joe Farrell gained 15 yards in three carries and then took a pass from John Huarte 22 yards to the MSU eight. An illegal pro­cedure penalty set the Irish back five, but Huarte made amends by pitching a 13-yard score to Farrell. The Irish led 12-0 after only nine minutes of play. 
After the kickoff the Irish stopped a Michigan State drive and took over on their own 14. A pass to Jack Snow gained 20 and moved the Irish out of trouble. Huarte fol­lowed this with a 26-yard pass to Bob Merkle. Four car­ries by Eddy gained 33, Farrell bucked for two, and Eddy went the final five on a pitchout. Huarte found Snow in the end zone for a two-point conversion, and the Irish took a 20-0 lead into the locker room. 
The opening minutes of the second half provided some anxious moments for Notre Dame fans. After a 78-yard touchdown run by Eddy was nullified by an illegal pro­cedure penalty, Michigan State started to regain its lost confidence. A long run for a touchdown by Clint Jones was called back by a penalty, but Juday followed with a pass over the middle to Gene Washington who sped un­touched into the end zone to complete a 51-yard play. Lou Bobich's place kick closed the gap to 20-7. 
The Irish defense refused to be shaken, however, and set up the last two Irish scores with interceptions. After a theft by Tom Longo had stopped a State drive, the Irish were forced to punt. Tony Carey stole a Juday bomb, though (see cut), and ran it back to the Spartan 29. After two plays lost seven yards, John Huarte revived the rest­less fans with a 16-yard pass to Snow. With a fourth­down-and-one situation, the Spartans were prepared for a crack at the middle. But Huarte roUed out right and dodged his way 21 yards to the end zone. Huarte fol­lowed his run for a touchdown with a pass to Eddy for two points. Captain Jim CarroU set up the final score with an interception on the MSU 15. Sandy Bonvechio led the team in from there, and Pete Andreotti scored the final touchdown on a two-yard plunge. 
The happy Irish fans were quick to sing the praises of Huarte and CarroU, Eddy and Longo, Farrell and Meyer, Snow and Carey, and the rest of the great Irish team. But the players were quick to hoist Ara Parseghian to their shoulders in tribute to the man they knew was most responsible for ending Michigan State's long domain as masters of Irish football fortunes. 
—STEVE ANDERSON 

December 4, 1964 
Cold Day — Hot Team 
N
OTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 21 — The temperature 
was 13 degrees above zero. Icy winds swept the sta­
dium at 25 miles per hour. Players wore gloves, and char­
coal burners stood near the benches. The day was cold, 
but not cold enough to cool the sizzling Irish as they 
blanked Iowa before an estimated crowd of 56,000. 
The extreme cold severely hampered both teams' pass­
ing attack, and Notre Dame's defense shut off what 
passing threat Hawkeye quarterback Snook could pose. 
The difference lay in the running attack — Irish rushing 
netted 197 yards to 34 for Iowa. 
Nicky Eddy for the second straight week led Notre 
Dame in rushing with 92 yards on 16 carries. Bill Wolski 
followed with 69 and Fullback Joe Farrell had 48. Quar­
terback Huarte was only able to find his target on four 
of ten passes, while Hawkeye signal-caUer Snook com­
pleted a dismal eight of 23. 
The first quarter was one of probing both the opponent and one's own capabilities in the cold. John Huarte fired a long pass to Jack Snow on Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage, but the end from California could not hold on to it with his gloved hands. Iowa had been only a little more successful on their first series, getting two first downs before being stopped on a fourth-and-a-foot situation. Notre Dame got close enough to attempt a field goal from the 28, but the kick was short. 
The first break of the game came after cornerback Arunas Vasys recovered a fumble on the Iowa 37. John Huarte worked his teeim down to the 13. A delay of game penalty set the baU back to the 18. With third and 13, Huarte fired for Sheridan. The pass was overthrown, but a pass interference caU gave Notre Dame a first down on the 3. Bill Wolski slammed in for the score on the next play, and Ken Ivan's kick made it 7-0 Notre Dame with 12:38 left in the half. 
Less than three minutes later, the Irish had the ball again. Huarte threw one incomplete pass, and then hit Snow for 66 yards and a touchdown. Ken Ivan converted. Notre Dame trotted into their locker room with a 14-0 bulge. 
Iowa's strong line had managed to contain the Irish running attack in the first half. The two Irish scores had come on a break and a long pass play. But Nick Eddy, Bill Wolski, and Joe FarreU dismissed everyone's doubts in the second half. 
After missing a field goal early in the third period, the Irish came up with a 53-yard drive just before the quarter ended. An 18-yard pass to Phil Sheridan, runs of 12 and 11 yards by Wolski and Farrell, set the stage for a 7-yard touchdown sweep by Nick Eddy. The kick gave Notre Dame a 21-0 lead with 11:50 left in the game. 
Iowa passed its way down to the Notre Dame 26 before Snook was thrown for a 13-yard loss and then missed his mark on three passes. 
From their own 39 Wolski and Eddy led a touchdown march ending in a one-foot plunge. Ken Ivan added the point to set the score 28-0 with 0:55 remaining. All that was left was for the Irish to walk off the field with dreams of warm California weather the next week. 
—^ToM BETTAG 
The Scholastic 

T OS ANGELES_, CALIFORNU^ November 28—^Notre Dame, •'-' hoping to crown a fantastic season with the National Championship, had its dream shattered by the Trojans of 
Southern California, 20-17. A shirt-sleeved crowd of 83,­840 watched in awe as the No. l-ranked Irish spurted to a 17-0 half-time lead, but could not withstand the second-half comeback of the spirited Trojans. 
The Irish defense forced the first break of the game. Ken Maglicic separated USC's Rod Sherman from the baU with a jarring tackle, and Arunas Vasys recovered on the Trojan 42-yard line. Two passes moved the ball 34 yards to the Southern Cail 8-yard line. Here the attack faltered and Ken Ivan booted a field goal from the 15. 
A clipping penalty forced the Trojans to punt after one set of downs, and the Irish took over on their own 41-yard line. A penalty, this one against Notre Dame, pushed them back to their 26-yard line. From there, John Huarte took to the air, hitting Jack Snow for 23 yards, Phil Sheridan for 13, and Snow again at the Trojan 35­yard line. A draw play gained 10, and then Huarte, after faking beautifully to Joe Kantor and Bill Wolski, lofted a 22-yard scoring pass to Jack Snow. 
Late in the second quarter the Irish marched 72 yards in 11 plays to score their final points of the game. Huarte's quick passes to ends Snow and Sheridan, capped by Wolski's 5-yard run for the touchdown, marked Notre Dame's best offensive drive of the game. 
Southern Cal opened the second half by driving 68 yards in 9 plays to make the score ND 17 — USC 7. Trojan quarterback Craig Fertig and speedster Mike Gar­rett, working the roll-out passes and power sweeps to per­fection, narrowed the margin to 10 points when Garrett scored from the one-yard line. 
Nick Eddy returned the kick-off to the 29-yard line. The Irish elected to stay on the ground, utilizing the quick bursts of Kantor and Wolski to drive down to the Southern Cal 9-yard line. A fumbled pitch-out gave the ball to the Trojans at their own 14-yard line. A pass in­terference penalty forced Southern Cal to punt, and once again the Irish had the ball, this time at their own 34. Huarte mixed his calls eifectively, sending Wolski up the middle after a double fake, and then Eddy around end. At the 13 Joe Kantor took charge and on four carries, lead the Irish to the Trojans 6-inch line. The next play was the turning point of the game. On second down and inches, Kantor had apparently scored but Notre Dame was called for holding. A touchdown would have put the game out of reach. Instead the Irish were pushed back to the 15-yard line and were able to gain only 3 yards in their next 3 attempts. 
Southern Cal took over at the 12-yard line. Craig Fertig caught the Irish by surprise with a 28-yard pass to end Fred Hill which brought the ball to the 40. Behind good protection, Fertig found his receivers Sherman and Hill for short yardage, and completed the 88-yard drive with a 23-yard scoring pass to Hill. 
The Irish were forced to punt by the inspired Trojan defense. Mike Garrett returned it to the Notre Dame 40 with only two minutes left in the game. Fertig threw to HiU for 23 yards. On three plays the Trojans gained only two yards, making it fourth and 8 at the 15. But then with only 1:34 remaining, Fertig hit Rod Sherman over the middle for the winning touchdown. 
Notre Dame moved to the Trojan 43 in five plays. But Nate Shaw killed any hopes of a comeback with an interception. The Trojans punted with 16 seconds remain­ing. On two successive down-and-out passes to Snow, the Irish moved the ball to midfield, but a last-second des­peration pass was batted down. 
— MIKE BRADLEY 
Tragedy 
December 4, 1964 
Jefferson in 1923, 7-1-1; at Rice from 1924 to 1927, 14-16-5. Heisman's most important accom­plishments aren't given by his rec­
ord: he was the innovator of many practices that are now football com­monplaces. Heisman invented the 

THE HEISMAN 
TROPHY 

TPH E HIGHEST TRIBUTE that can be 
••- paid a college football player is to be awarded the Heisman Trophy. This yeai' Notre Dame's John Huarte, was distinguished with the award. The honor places Huarte in the company of such football immortals and near-immortals as Tom Harmon (Michigan 1940). Angelo Bertelli (Notre Dame 1943), "Doc" Blanchard (Army 1945), Glenn Davis (Army 1946), Johnny Lujack (Notre Dame 1947), Doak Walker (Si\IU 1948), Leon Han (No­tre Dame 1949, Johnny Lattner (No­tre Dame 1953), Paul Hornung (No­tre Dame 1956). Joe Bellino (Navy 1960), Ernie Davis (Syracuse 1961), Roger Staubach (Navy 1963). 
The Heisman Trophy was first awarded in 1935 and has been award­ed each year since to the outstanding college football player as chosen by newswriters and broadcasters. 
The ti-ophy is presented each year in December at a dinner held in the Downtown Athletic Club. The Ath­letic Club founded the trophj' thirty yeai's ago to honor the memory of John Heisman, a football coach of the late 19th and early 20th century who became director of the Down­town Club when he retired from coaching. 
Heisman coached for thirty-seven years ~ fi-om 1890 to 1927. His ten­ures were always interesting if not successful. His football career began at Brown where, as a 154-pounder, he played tackle in 1887 and 1889. Two pounds heavier, he played end and tackle at Pennsylvania in 1890 and 1891. Law was Heisman's choice for a career, but poor ej'esight forced him to give it up. He got his law degree by having sludeiits read to him and by passing an oral e.xam in 1891. But actual practice was im­possible. 
Upon his graduation, Oberlin Col­lege offered him a job coaching. Heisman's success was hardly im­mediate. Oberlin didn't win a game in 1892, his first year as coach. 
In 1893 he moved to Butchel Col­lege, and in 1894 he returned to Ober­lin. In order, then, came coaching assignments at Auburn from 1895 to 1899, where his teams were 13-3-2; at Clemson from 1900 to 1903, 19-3-2; at Georgia Tech from 1904 to 1919, 91-30-4; at Penns3'lvania from 1920 to 1922, 16-10-2; at Washington and "safety" position, he first thought of having the quarterback call signals to time the center snap, and he was the first to have the center hike the ball to the quarterback — originally it was rolled back! 
But Heisman's most impoi'tant and most relevant direct contribution to Notre Dame football was none of these. He was one of the very first, in the face of repeated rebuffs, to agi­tate for legislation for the forward pass. He got the idea from the instinc­tive reaction of a trapped fullback who, just before he was tackled, tossed the ball to one of his team­mates who trotted into the end zone for the winning touchdown. In the forward pass, Heisman saw the pos­sibility of altering the nature of foot­ball, from a brutal blood bath to a game of skill. Passing, he thought, could loosen up the game. 
The fortunes of Notre Dame foot­ball have been linked with the for­ward pass, from the time a little end named Knute Rockne caught passes that defeated vaunted Army and gained national recognition for Notre Dame, right up to today and the latest of Notre Dame's great quarter­backs, John Huarte. 
Huarte's story is perhaps the most remarkable of any Heisman winner's. Never had the winner been so un­heralded before the season began, never had a non-monogram holder v/on the award. John Huarte came from nowhere, from 45 minutes' play­ing time, to become the winner of the nation's most coveted collegiate laur­el. His accomplishment symbolized the rags-to-riches rise of the entire Notre Dame team. 
In ten games Huarte and his pri­mary receiver Jack Snow broke prac­tically every Notre Dame passing rec­ord. Huarte attempted 205 passes, completed 114 of them for a 55.39? completion average. The passes netted 2062 yards. But these basic statistics only scratch the surface. 
Without John Huarte, Notre Dame would not have had a winning season. With him, they almost be­came national champions. This alone warrants the accolade — Outstand­ing College Football Player of 1964 
— and places him in the illustrious company of others who have won colleg e football's most treasured prize: The Heisman Trophy. 
—JOHN WHELAN 
The Scholastic 



- •, *»;^ • 

December 4. 1964 
w»->e-^*->i»(j*-a 
--vvsi.,v>,., .-.^,.^^:>^^^^,. 

7 ieatea3Ma2gy?r'y'g'*'»?>-<''ya»4*ii-^'^J 
r:5*5s 
SS"''- .«^ 

.'.'•i. 
>^-^ 
.-..Aii;.^, 
mmm^ 
B&%atJ?y?iiA-

S^ 
i-^x­
1 

X 
December 4, 1964 
Brotherly 
Unlove 
In recent years no game has been played with more fierce­ness and resulted in more frustration than the Michigan State game. The frustration has mounted year by year, as defeat followed defeat. 
This year with the team 7-0 and prospects for an unde­feated season imminent, unlove for State erupted in the form of buttons, signs, and impro7n])tu and pivniptu pep rallies. It icas rewarded by a stunning 34-7 victory. Unlove con­quers all. 
The Scholastic 
\|| _^ Jm^ti^m&^m 

""•^ "T5EN 5 
^'*'",­
iMS^msmSSMMSMMMajlMSM.^ 

iflENT S: 
mm 

Parseghian is an excellent group, though not of All-America stature. 
All-Big-Ten star Bob Hadrick and 
Fred Hill, who caught a touchdown 
pass against the Irish and set up an­
1964 All-Opponents' Team
other, are the ends. The tackles in­
Pictured belovo are SoutJierti and Mike Garrett, two of ponent picks. 
 PAST YEARSj the editors of the 
I
N Notre Dame Football Review se­lected an All-America team. This year, however, Ara Parseghian, somewhat more qualified than Football Review editors, selected an All-Opponents' team. The Irish Head Coach carefully chose Notre Dame's 22 best opponents, based upon their performance against the Irish this year. This is the first All-Opponents' team to be selected by a Notre Dame coach. 
Quarterback Craig Fertig, who com­pleted 15 of 23 passes against the Irish, is the quarterback on the All-Opponents' team. Three of the best running backs in the nation — Michi­gan State's Dick Gordon, Pitt's Barry McKnight, and USC's Mike Garrett — 

California's Craig Fei'tig Ara Parseghian's AU-Op­
complete the opponents' backfield. 
Gordon followed a succession of great backs at Michigan State — Clar­ence Peaks, Walt Kowalczyk, Herb Adderly, George Saimes, and Sherman Lewis — and rushed for over 700 yards in 1964. Gordon was also named Most Valuable Player by his teammates. Pitt's McICnight, a half­back converted to fullback, had one of his best games against Notre Dame; the 225-pound blockbuster buUdozed his way for 93 yards, the best any player mustered against the Irish defense. Halfback Garrett rushed for 82 yards in Notre Dame's last game and was selected on many All-America teams. 
The offensive line selected by Coach 
clude Michigan State's Jerry Rush and Pitt's Ron Linaborg. John Niland of Iowa and USC's Bill Fisk are at the guards. Purdue's Larry Kaminski is the center on the All-Opponents' squad. 
For defensive. Coach Parseghian picked Purdue's Harold Wells and Brian Generalovich, an ex-basketball star, as ends. Jerry Shay of Purdue and Kent Francisco of UCLA, who both led their teams in tackles against Notre Dame, are at the tackles. The linebackers are Stanford's Jack Chappie, the Air Force Academy's Larry Tollstam, and Pitt's Ray Popp. Popp made or assisted on ten tackles against the Irish in the second half, helping the Panthers shut out Notre Dame during the third and fourth quarters. 
The defensive backfield includes two players from Michigan State — Captain Charlie Migyanka and kicking specialist Lou Bobich. Ken Eby of Purdue and Ken Jaggers of the Air Force complete the team. 
The complete All-Opponents' team: 
Offense:  
Ends  Hill (USC)  
Hadrick  (Purdue)  
Tackles  Rush (MSU)  
Linaborg (Pitt)  
Guards  Niland  (Iowa)  
Fisk (USC)  
Center  Kaminski  (Purdue)  
Backs  Garrett (USC)  
Fertig (USC)  
Gordon (MSU)  
McKnight  (Pitt)  
Defense:  
Ends  Wells  (Purdue)  
Generalovich  (Pitt)  
Tackles  Shay (Purdue)  
Francisco  (UCLA)  
Linebackers  Chappie (Stanford)  
Popp (Pitt)  

Tollstam (Air Force) Backs Bobich (MSU) Migyanka (MSU) Eby (Purdue) Jaggers (Air Force) 
Wisconsin and Navy were not repre­sented on the team. Purdue placed the most players (5), while three teams — Pitt, Michigan State, and USC —had four. The Air Force Academy had two on the squad. UCLA, Stanford, and Iowa each placed one man and rounded out Notre Dame's first All-Opponent Team. 
—^REX LARDNER 
The Scholastic 
Preparing for the Future 
OPEED AND AGGRESSIVENESS mark the ' ^ edition of the 1964 freshman foot­ball team. This team, the first Irish roster recruited by Ara Parseghian, is not as large as last year's squad although Freshman Coach George Sefcik is more than pleased with the spirit and speed exhibited by his charges. 
Sefcik's main duty is to teach Notre Dame's offense to the freshmen. He alternates players from offensive to defensive positions every week in or­der to give everyone a chance to be­come acquainted with such forma­tions as the "I." He analyzes films of scrimmages with varsity "preps" in order to chart player progress. By the end of the season, the freshmen have a firm knowledge of varsity patterns and can make the adjustment to inter­collegiate football with little difficulty. The films of the scrimmages also give Coach Parseghian insigh t into a player's ability and this makes it easier to position a player during spring practice. 
The freshmen also prepare the var­sity for a Saturday game by running the opponent's plays against the var­sity during the week. These drills de­velop a player's knowledge of all basic offensive patterns. The Irish coaches are more intent on giving all the freshmen a chance to play than in working with a few standouts. Thus it is diflScult to fairly evaluate the in­dividuals on the freshman squad. 
The work of Coaches Sefcik and John Murphy will be appreciated if adequate replacements take over for graduating starters. Next fall Notre Dame is losing eight starters in the line and two in the backfield. Replace­ments must be found for Norm Nicola, John Meyer, Jim Snowden, John Atamian, and Jack Snow in the offensive line; Jim Carroll, Tom Kostelnik, and Ken Maglicic in the defensive backfield; and John Huarte and Joe Farrell in the offensive back­field. Also missing will be reserves Sandy Bonvechio, Paul Costa, Vince Dennery, Tim Devine, Dick Dupuis, Tom Harding, Joe Kantor, Vince Mat­tera, Tom Mittelhauser, and Gerry Tubinis. 
Because the freshmen don't play any games, but only work on the fundamentals, it is hard for the coaches to single out a first team. 
George Sefcik believes that the freshmen are ready to contribute to future Notre Dame squads. The line­men, with an average weight of 215 to 220 will be contesting with return­ing varsity players for seven vacan­cies in the offensive and defensive in­terior. The backs, with an average weight of 185 to 190, will be pushing veterans for spots in the backfield and in the defensive secondary. 

Candidates at quarterback, for ex­ample, wiU be: Tom Schoen, a 5-11. 180-pound speedster from Euclid, Ohio; John Pergine (6-0, 196) from Norristown, Pa.; Bill O'Brien (6-1, 
195) from Virginia Beach, Va.; Dan Koenings (6-2, 185) from Racine, Wise; and Dennis Emanuel, a 6-1, 180-pcund southpaw passer from Ot­tumwa, Iowa. These five have taken turns running the offense this season and will have a chance to run the varsity during spring practice. 
The rest of the roster is as follows: 
END: Steve Chaney (6-3, 220, Mar­ion, Ohio), Tom Furlong (6-2, 210, Cleveland, Ohio), Mike Heaton (6-2, 201, Seneca, Dl.), Mike McGill (6-2, 210, Hammond, Ind.), Bill Peavey (6-2, 200, Eureka, Calif.), Kevin Rassas (6-1, 195, Winnetka, HI.), Jerry Sel­jan (6-2, 190, Brillion, Wise), Jim Yacknow (6-2, 225, Cleveland, Ohio). 
TACKLE: Louis Fournier (6-3, 260, Sheboygan, Wise), Jim Hill (6-3, 245, Niles, Ohio), Rudy Konieczny (6-0, 250, Fairview, Mass.), Mike Kuzmicz (6-4, 240, South Bend, Ind.), Robert Sheehan (6-5, 235, West Rocksbury, Mass.), Tim Swearingen (6-2, 235, Westover AFB, Mass.), Gerry Wisne (6-4, 235, Detroit, Mich.). 
GUARD: Bill Dainton (6-2, 220, Gary, Ind.), Dan Dickman (6-0, 210, Pittsburgh, Pa.), Jim GorsM (6-0, 195, RocheUe, lU.), Chuck Grable (6-0, 210, Oshkosh, Wise), Robert Jones (5-11, 205, Raytown, Mo.), Steve Quinn (6-1, 207, Northfield, lU.), Bill Sarm (5-10, 205, North Reading, Mass.), Al VanHuffel (6-2, 218, South Bend, Ind.). 
CENTER: Larry Forness (6-2, 240, Denver, Col.), Ed Knack (6-2, 220. Toledo, Ohio), John Franken (6-1, 216, Youngstown, Ohio). 
HALFBACK: Rocky Bleier (5-11, 188, Appleton, Wise), Mike Burgener (5-10, 180, Marion, HI.), John Butash (5-10, 180, Akron, Ohio), Dave Haley (5-11, 192, Hingham, Mass.), Dan Harshman (6-0, 189, Toledo, Ohio), Bob Morin (6-0,175, Agawam, Mass.), Tom O'Leary (5-10, 178, Columbus, Ohio), Ron Orians (5-11, 187, Tiffin, Ohio), Jim Powers (5-9, 188, Wichita FaUs, Texas), Jim Smithberger (6-1, 185, Welch, West Va.), Mike Trobetta (5-9, 160, Santa Rosa, Calif.). 
FULLBACK: Dennis Kiliany (6-1, 220, Youngstown, Ohio), Dave Mar­tin (6-0, 200, Kansas City, Kan.), Paul May (5-10, 205, Alexandria, Va.), Ralph Moore (6-2, 215, Sche­nectady, N.Y.), Steve Rotiimeier (6-0, 185, Faribault, Minn.). 
—STEVE ANDERSON 

December 4, 1964 
Six Days For Sixty Minutes 
S
IXTY MINUTES in a football game. Upon those 60 minutes wiU be predicated Sunday's headline. Those cire the 60 minutes in which the stu­dents are supposed to give solid cheer­ing. Those are the 60 minutes people will be talking about for the next week. But for the team those 60 minutes are just the climax to hours of practice. 
Each game poses a tremendous problem for both coaches and players. A new opponent makes it necessary to adjust the defense to meet their specific attack. The offense must be geared to hit them at their weakest points and must be changed to nullify the effects of the scouting reports. There are only six days in which to accomplish this. Those six days are ones of gruelling work, work that gets no cheering from the students, no headlines from the papers. 
The aches and bruises left over from Saturday's game do not warrant even a day of rest. Sunday the team appears briefly for running and calisthenics to work off the stiffness and be prepared for the week. It is a hard week. Two and a half hours a day. Every second demanding con­centration, effort, and stamina. 
Monday is devoted to learning. The offense runs over and over their plays trjdng to make them instinctive. The defense must learn to recognize the formations of the opponents the in­stant the "prep" squad snaps out of the huddle. They must learn to react quickly. There is no contact on Mon­day, just repetition. 
Tuesdays and Wednesdays are days for scrimmaging and testing plays. The defense will scrimmage the best part of the two days. The offense practices blocking the "prep" squad, but the backs are saved from as much tackling as possible in order to avoid injury. Plays are put into the game plan to see if they work. Some will be used in the game, others wiU be discarded before the final plan is drawn up. 
By Thursday the plays have been finalized, and all that remains is to run through them severed times to "get rid of the bugs," fix the assign­ments in each player's mind. Friday is a light day. Final preparations consist mainly of running through the game plan. 
The format is simple and direct but each practice is loaded with work and seems filled with a sense of urgency. Time is the big factor. There is only so much time to do so much work, and not a second is lost. The schedule for each drill is timed to the second. No one is allowed to stand idle from the start of practice to the end. Switches from one end of the field to the other are made quickly and with­out confusion. Student managers hustle around seeing that everything can continue without a hitch. 
Aside from manning the buzzers that precisely regulate the timing of each practice session and racing over the acres of practice fields supplying footballs and adjusting equipment, the managers have another duty — maintining the absolute secrecy Coach Parseghian requires. 
One manager checks the identifica­tion of each person who tries to watch a practice session. Unless he is a newsman who has requested per­mission in advance or a friend of the coaching staff, he is not admitted. Other managers patrol the fences around the field for "spectators." There is even a check of the library windows in order to guard against scouts with binoculars. 
Coach Parseghian does not require that every shade of O'Shaugnessy be drawn as Frank Leahy did but that's only because Cartier Field isn't visi­ble from the windows of O'Shaugh­nessy as it once was. 
This almost scientific conservation of time and energies gives the prac­tice a feeling of sureness. The players walk off having been forced to give their best without being overtaxed. Their efforts have been channelled in the right direction. They know that they will go into the game prepared. They feel sure they cannot meet a team that has been better coached. Consequently, they are sure of them­selves and on Saturday they go onto the field like champs. 
— TOM BETTAG 
The Scholastic 

W^K-b' v:^'S^-:Aiv-^v'»V-^£-^.^^,»,^.^.?BJa.--^^-v^V:---Mr--^^^ -. - --^­
Practice is not all routine, here John Himrte is interviewed by WNDU on the day he icon the Heisman trophy. 
pimu; inuMi w > j 1.1 [. • I III.. 
The band, the cheerleaders, the leprecMun with SJmimon Mike, the student fans and managers were on the periphery of the gridiron — hut all were a part of the jubilance that teas Notre Dame football 1964. 
On the fringe 
The Scholastic 

December 4, 1964 
The Huddle 
Best Wishes to the 1964 Fighting Irish 
, . , • STOP at the HUDDLE . • . , for that little snack between classes 
C/< ongratulations to . . . 1964 FIGHTING IRISH 
Gratefully the Class of '66 salutes twenty-five fellow Juniors. These, our classmates, have been instrumental in re-initiating the tangible, concrete Notre Dame spirit. 
Pete Andreotli  Jim Kelly  Bob Merkle  Tom Tologa  
Dick Arrington  Alan Loboy  Bob Papa  Pete Thornton  
Tony Carey  Harry Long  Dick Sauget  Arunas Vasys  
"Peanuts" Conway  Tom Longo  Phil Sheridan  Mike Wodsworth  
Pete Duranko  Dan McGinn  Jim Smith  Mike "Bear" Webster  
Ken Ivan  Bob Meeker  Tom Sullivan  Bill Wolski  
Bill ZIoch  
CLASS OF 1966  

The Scholastic 
THE BEST IN 
MAGAZINE 
The Coaches Sound Off! 
BIG-TIME vs. SMALL-TIME COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
• A controversial discussion be­tween coach Duffy Daugherty of Michigan State and coach Dave Nelson of small-college power Del­aware on the fierce competition, high-pressure recruiting methods, and "must win" psychology that typify the startling differences be­tween big and-small-time college football. 
* 
1964-'65 All-America BASKETBALL PREVIEW 
• The editors of SPORT scan every section of the country to select the nation's top basketball stars of the 1964-'65 season. 
SPORT keeps you apace of all events on the college and pro sports scene. Enjoy expert cover­age, analysis, indepth features, action photos in 
JANUARY 
SPORT 
Favorite magazine of the sport* start and the sports mindedl 


NOW ON SALE! 
For Christmas Giving 
•
 LUGGAGE 

•
 HANDBAGS 

•
 LEATHER GOODS 

•
 BRIEF CASES 

•
 GIFTS 


IIANa/^INTM€H 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
Phone: 232-5881 
RAMBLE IN 

DIRECT RECEIVER • DAILY 
LIVE MAINE LOBSTER 
SEA FOOD OF AIL KINDS 
Freih and Frozen 
U.S. CHOICE STEAKS PARTY ROOM 
ROSELAND 

Don't hesitate, give Paper:Mate...and your gift problems are all wrapped up! 
Paper Mate Pens are goof-proof gifts—with goof-proof 
Instant gift-wrap to make them easier than ever to give. Just slip the box in the sleeve, moisten, touch-and you're gift-wrapped. Instantly. 
The Paper Mate Mark IV Capri— handsome elegance in chrome-plate or gold-hued jeweler'sfinish, $2.95. Choose from the complete Paper Mate line— the exclusive Profile Trio, petite Lady Capri or matched pen and pencil set— perfect gifts from $1.95 to $3.95. Gift bo.x and gift wrap included with each-
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
December 4, 1964 
Here Is a Man Who Represents The "Blue Chip" Company 
BLUE CHIP because since its founding in 1846 it has 
Connecticut Mutual 
been directed by men of character and dedication to Life Insurance Co. provide the best life insurance for the individual Hartford, Conn. policyholder. 
_ ______ ^ 
BLUE CHIP because for over a century the Company has been administered for its policyholders in strict accordance v/ith sound financial principles and operating practices. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company's record oi earnings on investments is one of the highest in the industry. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company's unusually high earnings result in high dividends and notable low net cost to the policyholders. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company's efforts ore directed toward designing policy provisions to provide the PHILIP F. SCHUSTER best possible insurance coverage. Notre Dame BBA '61 
BLUE CHIP because the Company is favored by discern­
Wharton School of Rnonce 
ing buyers accustomed to managing money and 
and Commerce MBA '63 
comparing values. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company's agents are dedicated professionals, trained and equipped to render competent counsel and service to their clients. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company maintains an unusual staff of specialists, com­petent in all phases of estate conservation, business insurance, pension and profit-sharing and employee benefit plans. 
BLUE CHIP because the Company's integrity, high purpose, financial strength, superior record and enlightened business methods hove won it the respect of those most competent to judge including significantly, those in the insurance industry itself. 
Representing the 
L KEITH SKALLA AGENCY 
Congrotufafions fo .. . 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
The Class of 1967 salutes the FIGHTING IRISH and especially the twenty-seven Sophomores who have fought so hard to bring Notre Dame football. back to national prominence. The fifty-one foreign study Sophomores whose only tangible con­tact with ND Football '64 has been news clippings and radio broadcasts, send special congratulations from Innsbruck, Austria, to a great team. 
HARRY ALEXANDER KEVIN HARDY TOM REGNER 
LARRY CONJAR JOHN HORNEY TOM RHOADS 
JIM Dl LULLO RON JEZIORSKI JIM RYAN 
NICK EDDY JOHN LiUM ALLEN SACK 
JIM GARRISON JIM LYNCH PAUL SEILER 
DON GMITTER JOE MARSICO DICK SWATLAND 
GEORGE GOEDDEKE HUGH O'MALLEY PETE THORNTON 
TIM GORMAN ALAN PAGE TIM WENGIERSKI 
BOB HAGERTY VIC PATERNOSTRO DAVID ZUROV>/SKI 
DO IT TWICE MORE SOPHS 
CLASS OF '67 
1964 FINAL 

STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS 

N.D. GPP. 287 .. .. POINTS SCORED . . 77 215 FIRST DOWNS 130 III by Rushing 60 90 63 14 by Penalties 7 1909 .. .... YARDS RUSHING . .. 687 472 TIMES CARRIED ... . .. . 351 4.1M ... Vards-per-trv .... 1.96 
2105 .. YARDS PASSING 1376 222 Passe* Attempted ... . 230 
120 . . Passes Completed 109 .541 .. Completion Percentage . .. .474 18 .... Passes Intercepted by ... . ... . 13 220 Yards Int. Returned 180 4014 .... TOTAL OFFENSE 2063 30 .... PUNTS _ 1097 .. Total Yards 0907 36.G 39.1 225 Yards Punts Returned 101 16 FUMBLES 21 11 Ball Lost 14 
Suite 720 • 39 South LaSalle Street • Chicago 3, Illinois 

SCORING  
PLAYER  TD  FG  PAT  TP  
Wolski,  Bill  II  0  0  66  
Sno\\',  Jack  9  0  2-p  56  
Eddy, Nick  7  0  2-p  44  
Ivan, Ken  0  4  15  27  
Farrell.  Joe  4  0  0  24  
Huarte, John  3  0  0  18  
Andreotti,  Pete  2  0  0  12  
.Az/aro, Joe  0  1  7  10  
Conway, Denny  I  0  0  6  
Kantor,  Joe  I  0  0  6  
Page, Alan  I  0  0  6  
Rassas, Nick  1  0  0  6  
Sheridan,  Phil  I  0  0  6  
ND  TOTALS  41  5  26  287  
OPP.  TOTALS  II  0  11(2­P) 77  

(2-r) 
PASS RECEIVING 

PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. TD Snow, Jack 60 1114 18.9 9 Eddy. .Nick 16 352 22.0 2 Sheridan, Phil 20 320 16.0 1 Wolski, Bill 8 130 16.3 2 Farrell, Joe 6 84 14.0 I Kantor, Joe 2 43 21.5 0 Merkle, Bob 4 32 8.0 0 Conway, Denny I 15 15.0 0 Huarte. John 1 II 11.0 0 Rassas. Nick 2 4 2.0 I 
PUNTING 

PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. Snow, Jack 29 1057 36.4 McGinn, Dan I 40 40.0 
PUNT RETURNS  
PLAYER  NO.  YARDS  AVG.  
Rassas, Nick  15  153  10.2  
Conway, Denny  8  72  9.0  

The Scholastic 
RUSHING 

PLAYER  TC  YARDS  AVG  
Wolski, Bill  136  657  4.8  
98  490  5.0  
Farrell. Jot­ 93  387  4.:;  
Kantor, Joe  47  138  3.4  
Andreotti, Pete ..  33  115  3.5  
Conway. Deiinv ..  16  66  4.1  
3  37  12.3  
Merklc,  Bob  4  8  2.0  
Huarte, John  37  7  
Zloch,  Bill  I  I  1.0  
Bonvecliio,  Alex  3  -8  
Carey, Tony  I  -9  

KICKOFF RETURNS 

PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. Eddy, Nick 7 148 21.1 Rassas, Nick 4 103 25.8 Wolski, Bill 2 49 24.5 .•\ndreotti, Pete I 12 12.0 Kantor, Joe 1 8 8.0 Meeker, Bob _ 1 (I 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

TACKLES: Jim Can oil 140; Ken Maglicic 88; Tom Kostelnik 81; Tom Longo 72; Tom Regner 68; Don Gmitter 54: Nick Rassas 51; Tony Carey 46; Jim Lynch and Alan Page 41; Kevin Hardy 38; .Aruna."; Vasys 35; Pete .Andreotti and Mike Wadsworth 11; John Meyer 10; Ken Ivan and .Alan Loboy 8; Paul Co!>ta 7: John Horney 6; Vince Mattera 5; Dick Saiiget 4; George Goeddeke. Hari-y Long 3; Bol) .Meeker. Norm Nicola, Phil Sheridan 2; Nick Eddy, Bob Merklc. .Allen Sack, Jack Snow, Jim Snow-den, Tom Talaga. Mike Webster, Bill Zloch 1. 
OPPONENTS' FUMBLES RECOVERED: Don Gmitter, Ken Maglicic, Alan Page, Tom Regner 2; Tony Carey, Paul Co!>ta, Tom Kostelnik, Tom Longo, Phil Sheridan, Arunas Vasys 1. 
BLOCKED KICKS: Kevin Hardy 2. 
PASSES BROKEN UP: Tony Carey and Tom Longo 10; Jim Carroll and Nick Rassas 4; Tom Kostelnik 3; Don Gmitter, Ken Ivan, Jim Lynch, Ken Maglicic, Aruna.s Vasys 1. 
PASSES INTERCEPTED 

PLAYER NO. YARDS TD Carey, Tony 8 121 0 Longo, Tom _... 4 27 0 Maglicic, Ken 1 25 0 Rassas, Nick I 23 0 Kostelnik, Tom 1 11 0 Ivan, Ken I 7 0 Carroll, Jim I 5 0 Dnranko, Pete I I 0 
A short walk Is goodfor you. But when you really want to travel you can't beat Greyhoundfor going places atfowest cost In fact Greyhound costs less thantralns, planes ordrlvlngyourself. For economy. GO GREYHOUND... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US. 
No other fonn of public transportation has fans so low. For example: 
CHICAGO. nX. One way S 3.10 Round trip S 5.60 TOLEDO, O. One way 5.25 Round trip 9.45 CLEVELAND. O. One way 8.70 Round trip 15.70 PHILADELPHIA. PA. „ One way 23.30 Round trip 41.95 NEW YORK. N.Y. One way 26.30 Round trip 47.35 PITTSBURGH. PA. One way 13.15 Round trip 23.70 ST. LOUIS, MO One woy 9.45 Round trip 17.05 BUFFALO. N.Y. One way 14.60 Round trip 26.30 BOSTON. MASS One way 29.85 Round trip 53.70 210 W. Monroe Street AT 7-6541 
BAGGAGE: You c«n take more with you on a Greyhound. It yoti prefer send laundry or extra baggage on ahead by Greyhound Package Express. It's there in hours and costs you less. 
GO GREYU.QUND 
PASSING  
Player-Huarte, John  -Alt. .... 205  Comp. Int. Yards 114 11 2062  TD 16  Pet.  .556  ...and leave tbe driving to US  
Bonvechio,  Alex  16  3  2  32  0  .313  
McGinn, Dan  -.  1  1  0  11  0  1.000  

December 4, 1964 
Does 
\ 
\
/ 

this I 
V 

\ /
spot \ feel sticky? 
NEITHER DOES OLD SPICE STICK DEODORANT 
Dries as it applies .. . in seconds. And stays dry! Gives you fast. . . comfortable . . . dependable deodorant protection. Lasting protection you can trust. Try it. Old Spice Stick Deodorant for Men. 1.00 plus tax. s M u L_"r o M 
congratulations to the 
QUALITY FOOTWEAR FOR THE ENTIRE 

1964 FIGHTING IRISH 
FAMILY . . . 

from 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
•^ItWTURBOW 
VpPTOMKTIIIST 
GLASSES REPAIRED 

WSND 
"Bring in the Pieces" 
CONTACT LENSES 
INQUIRIES INVITED 

the voice of Notre Dame 
EYE EXAMINATION 
OUVEB HOTEL 207 W. Washingtoii —Phone CE 4-5777 

IDBAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS 
Twin Magazines I 
Disfinef . . . but related 
CATHOLIC BOY CATHOLIC MISS 
Published of Notre Dame by the Holy Cross Fathers 
EACH IMIAGAZINE pages chocic full of sports, 48 adventure, comics, stories, hobbies and Catholic inspiration. 
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.00 a year! 
And here are your handy subscription forms: 
CATHOLIC BOY n 1 year, $3.00 Q 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana n 3 years, $7.00 

Dear Fathers: Please send CATHOLIC BOY to: 
Name 
Street and Number City Zone State 
• Send Gift card to read from: 
Your Name Your Address 

CATHOLIC MISS n 1 year, $3.00 n 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana n 3 years, $7.00 
Dear Fathers: Please send CATHOLIC MISS to: 
Name Street and Nmnber City Zone State 
• Send Gift card to read from: 
Your Name Your Address 

Ask your professor, tell your father, see for yourself; Rasmussen's has the finest quality men's clothing in northern Indiana. Rasmussen's is also a friendly, courteous store. The young man and the mature man alike will find a quiet relaxed atmosphere in which to discuss their clothing needs. When you enter Rasmussen's, notice the many quality brands there are to choose from. You wiU find London Fog Rainwear, Robert Lewis Outerwear, Gant Ivy Shirts, and Tapered Shirts by Arrow. For casual wear you will choose from Thane or Alps sweaters, Levi pants, and Ivy sport coats and slacks. For a more dressed-up look, try a Cricketeer Vested Suit with an Ivy Repp Tie. Rasmussen's also offer Jockey Underwear by Cooper, Adler Hosiery, and Swank Jewelry. When you browse through Rasmussen's you will also see full lines of Pendleton Clothes, Norman Hilton Clothes, and Baker Clothes. If you want a hat, Rasmussen's have quality hats by Lee. Finally for the mature man who wants the best, Rasmussen's are the exclusive representatives in this area for Churchill Hats and Oxxford Clothes, the finest anywhere. When the northern Indiana winds start to blow cold, be prepared with winter coats and suits from Rasmussen's— only lYz blocks from the downtown bus stop. 
See Rasmussen's campus fashions in the Cypress Room. All NOTRE DAME MEN are invited to stop in and have a Coke at the Coke bar. See you soon at 
RASMUSSEN'S 130 West Washington St. 232-4839 



