T4-3  
19-22  
."*'.  
26-1 4  
-C  T  AROIWA  
P^^^-*  
34-14  
i^ll  •%  %-ii,  T  
17-6  
.83 ,  0mm,  
27-21  
MICH.STATE  
3-2 J  
JC=1«2  
FOOTBALL  REV/EW  27-0  

DECEMBER 5. 1952 
rni^^^sM^mmi 


THE DU PONT 
m:\ 

DIGEST 
•^HWI^ WWIJWL \ 
' AM<Vt^\ VblUVLPWU^ 
vuOuuuuOv aWHAu ^^wvuwuu>• vuvju-

Plant and Equipment 
X 

\. and the Engineer 
At Du Pont, men with many types of training trans­late laboratory developments into full-scale production 
Roger Jones, B.S. in Chem., Haverford College '52 {right), and operator check temperature control in the conversion of furfural to furan. 
Among the most interesting fields for engineers at Du Pont is the design of plaiits and equipment. 
It takes ingenuity of a liigh order to translate a small-scale laboratory operation into all-out commerical production. Design engineers cannot always use purchasable equipment to scale up research findings, even with considerable adaption. About half of the time at Du Pont, entirely new equipment must be designed be­cause of the novelty of the process developed by research. 
For example, a niunber of imusual problems were involved in designing the equipment and plant for a process in which hexamethylenediamine, one of the intermediates for nylon, is made from furfural, derived from such agricultural by-products as corncobs and hulls of cottonseed, oats and rice. 
In this conversion, these steps are in­

volved: 
C4H30CHO furfural 2H2 2Ha 2NaCN 4H2 
"®° '  .  ^  C4H4O  
catalyst  *"™ "  
C4H8O  

tetrahydrofuran 
a(CH2)4 CI dichlorobutane 
NC(CH2)4 CN adiponitrile 
H2N(CH2)6 NH2 hexamethylenediamine 

Here are some of the special problems that were encountered: 
1. Design of equipment with close temperature control for converting fur­fural to furan. The design finally settled on employs a large number of tubes con­taining a catalyst, with a coolant circu­lated around them. Special sequence 
Scale mode! of a part of the plant where adi­ponitrile is made from furfural. 
timers were devised for operation of the valves controlling production and re­generation cycles. 
2 . Design of high-pressure agitated autoclaves for the hydrogenation of furan to tetrahydrofuran. 
3. Selection of corrosion-resistant 
equipment for the hydrochlorination of tetrahydrofuran to dichlorobutane at high temperatures. 
4 . Design of a unique five-step distil­lation train to obtain high-grade adi­ponitrile without trace impurities. 
Although most of these problems involve a great deal of chemical en­gineering, also needed on the design­ing team were mechanical, electrical, civil, metallurgical and industrial en­gineers. Thus design work at Du Pont is open to men with many types of training, and there is abundant op­portunity for all. 
E. W. Griffin, B.S. in M.E., Duke; M.S. in Ind. Mgt., Georgia Tech '52 {right), instruct-; operator in handling of vapor-tight horizontal vacuum filter used in separating adiponitrile from sodium chloride. 
NEW BOOK. Send for "Chemical Engi­neers at Du Pont," just off the press. Explains opportunities in research, de­velopment, production, sales, adminis­tration and management. Address: 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Del. 
•W.U.S PATO*' 

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING 
... THROUGH CHEMiSTIlY 

Listen to "Cavalcade of America," Tuesday Nights on NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV 


WHAT d 

^^Qtui Man leli AwUUefi,"? A 
Buy your GIFTS 


GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan Take the Michigan Street Bus Open Every Evening Till 9 
Dec. 5, 1952 
Shoe Rebuilding Zipper Service 


12-Day All-Expense Football Tour 
Wosliington Slioe Siiop 


Notre Dame vs. 
Righf Away Service 116 W. Washington Ave. 


Southern California 
South Bend 
Hat Cleaning Shoe Dyeing 

SATURDAY. NOV. 28, 1953 at Los Angeles 
Take Care of Your Leave Nov. 22. 1953 — Return Dec. 3. 1953 Christmas Buying 
through the 

Notre Dame 

4-Day Tour to Oklahoma — Sept. 24-27, 1953 

Marlieting Club 

For Full Particulars on Both Trips Write . . . and 

EARL J. (Pete) REDDEN 
WESTWARD HO TRAVEL BUREAU 
TkefEATJfER. Shop. 

1671 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Ul 
Between Joer's and The Blarney 

Congratulations 
to the 

1952 Fighting Irish 
irom the 
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY 
921 Louise Street South Bend, Indiana 
The Scholastic 

Your Headquarters in South Bend for Notre Dame Games 
• Hoffman 
•La Salle 

• Oliver 
SOUTH BEND HOTEL ASSOCIATION 
South Bend, Indiana 

The Huddle 
Congratulates the 1952 Notre 
Dame football squad. 
Sfop of the HUDDLE for fhaf lifffe snack between classes. 
Dec. 5, 1952 
PARKER-
Our special new 
value enables us to 
give an extra pair 
of pants with every 
custom-made suit. 
BOYNTON 
We have been given a 20% discount by our wholesaler so we pass this great saving right along to you. 
PARKER­WINTERROWD 
115/2 North Main Phone 3-6318 
W^fH€i.wis 
\­
See this 
GIANT 

inonis Famovs Shirts by 
J-I 
i 

Be sure to stop in Wyman's Men's Shop and ask about our Span Shirt Contest—1st prize, 12 shirts; 2nd prize, 6 shirts. 
aited AIR LIMES 
The Scholastic 

FOR A LONG TIME we've suspected fads and screwball styles. But he that today's college man would does go for smartness, good work­no longer "gladly die for dear manship .. . and above all, value. 
old Siwash." Neither does he play 

That is why we believe you'll like ukuleles and sing "Alma Mater" 
the new selection of sportshirts by at the drop of a beanie. 
Manhattan*. For they have all these We believe, too, that when it qualities, plus a distinctive air that comes to sportshirts the college sets them above the ordinary shirt. 
man is no different from his older 

So ask for Manhattan... tke brother in town. He doesn't go for college man's sportshirt. 
JS!^ 
Shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs 

rn-fn'^'nf^ » f'^ m I'f* • if 1, •!<.• iM .Ml .^*fin
T-3 
Hgve You Selected 
Your 
Christmos 
Cords? 

Since 1942 we have dis­played and sold Christmas cards with designs reverent­ly executed by some of the best Christian Artists. 
We invite you to come in and make your selection from South Bend's onl y Catholic shopping center. 
AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP 
110 E. LoSalie 
There are always five 
expert barbers ready 
to serve you at Cyr's 
Barber Shop. 
You can save time by 
calling for an appoint­
ment. Phone 3-0678. 
CYR'S 
BARBER SHOP 

South Bend's Leading Barber Shop 
100-102 S. Main St. 
W. E. Cyr. Prop. 

Dec. 5, 1952 
7/uAAtu2ituHe 

The biggest wlieels on campus 
wear Arrow Shirts! 
Arrow White Shirts. Arrow Solid Color Shirts, Arrow Stripes ...all in your favorite collar styles... §3.95 up 
ARROW 
»»­

! SKIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS { 
Make GILBERT'S 
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters 
GILBERT'S 
Vol. 94 December 5, 1952 No. 10 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918. 
Editor 
ROBERT G. FINNEY 
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE 

PATRICK C. CARRICO News PETER K. CONNOLLY ...Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL .. .Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE Features JOHN F. SAND Sports WILLIAM F. NOONAN .. .Ass't. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator 
FOOTBALL REVIEW STAFF 

REVIEW EDITOR: Don Carbc.nc. GAMES: Bill Londo, Bill Noonan. Pal Cirrico. Bob Finney. Krn Murphy. Bob Frolichor. Tom Foote, Jack S'and, Tom Welly. Bob Haine. 
FEATURES: Bob Haine, Tom Foolc, Ray Ken­nedy, Jack Sand. BIOGRAPHIES: Phil Bolin, Bob Frolichcr. Jack 
Sand.  Pat  Carrico.  Ed  Giacomini.  Bill  Noonan.  
Ed  Milota.  
STATISTICS:  Jack  Sand.  

MAKE-UP: Don Carbonc, Bob Finney. Tom Foote. PHOTOGRAPHY: Bob Huddleston, Bill DeCrick. Don Carbone. Scotty Sullivan. Gordon DiRenzo. 
Jerry Shcchan. Bagby Studio. South Bend Tribune. Associated Press, United Press. ART: Bob Swanson. ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy. Jerry Baier. 
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As­sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
TH E SCHOLASTIC is published wieekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina­tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad­dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
COVER: Notre Dame on the march — 
through its toughest season, through 
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET ten hard and well-fought games, the Fighting Irish emerge as ever with 
Open evenings until 9 o'clock 
a record — and a spirit — that is typ­ically . . . Notre Dame. 
The Scholastic 

football Kemw... 
'^^fmrn­
JW-v**^*­

Contents 

The staff 8 The Season 12-24 The Team 25 The Roster 28 The Players .29-36 The Coaches 37-38 Behind the Scenes 39-40 Statistics ..41 Freshman Football 42 Band & Cheerleaders .43 
I don't want a man to go in 
there to die gamely—I want a man to go in there fighting to live!—Knute Rockne. 
W / HEN you have boys who 
will never quit under even the most adverse circumstances, you know that you will be proud of them regardless of the score. 
—Frank Leahy. 

^^ E shall always want Notre Dame men to play to win so long as 
there is a Notre Dame .. . to win cleanly according to the rules. . . . Because Notre Dame men are reared here on the campus in this spirit, and because they exemplify this spirit all over the world, they are the envy of the nation.—Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
TH E spirit of Notre Dame is legend. . . . You will find it in the indom­
itable spirit that dreamed of a great university where only a deep wilderness had been for centuries. . . . For this spirit will not say die, will count no odds too great while there remains a will to win. . . . And the legend seems to say this much at least, that men fired with the spirit of Notre Dame will win in the end, when it is important to win.—Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
uumi wzmtiiJB-^g mau*M^<iL'»SM^'K*^dB,jai*f^LMllSilJSJi/biii 
!ws^-sr'<t*---^'j^^^'^'''-' 
•fef^; 
-TM;M 

: ^^ ^^^«.F^^»1t^^5^^^ •• r.. • V.-. 
Irish line holds as Lattner sends Penn's safetymen back with a long spiraling punt. 
Irish Tie Quakers^ 7-7 
By BILL LONDO 
Philadelphia, Pa., Sept. 27 — Notre Dame went into the first game of its 64th season today with hopes of win­ning its 400th football victory, but after the Irish put together an impres­sive first-quarter touchdo%vn, the y sputtered around Franklin Field for the remainder of the afternoon and were lucky to escape with a 7-7 tie with the Pennsylvania Quakers. The deadlock was watched by 74,411 specta­tors, the largest opening-game crowd in Philadelphia gridiron history. 

That first-quarter TD would have been enough for \actory had not the Irish defense made one mistake—a mis­take that resulted in a 65-yard Pennsyl­vania touchdown. Early in the third period on the first play after receiving a Notre Dame punt, Glenn Adams hit Ed Bell, who had gotten behind the Irish secondary, with a perfect scoring strike, and the big end scampered all the way. Carl Sempier's extra point tied the score. 
Even then Notre Dame almost snatched victory in the waning mo­ments of the fray. With the ball on the Irish 20-yard line and two minutes remaining on the clock, quarterback Ralph Guglielmi began throwing. First he hit John Lattner on the Irish 41, then he tossed for seven yards to Joe Heap. After a time out Guglielmi pitched to Bob O'Neil for a first down on the Penn 37. 
With the" capacity crowd in an ex­pectant roar Guglielmi threw to Latt­ner who grabbed the ball on the south 
12 
sidelines near the Penn 25 and pivoted to avoid the onrushing Bell. The pivot was successful but as Bell drove' past Lattner he reached out with a long arm and knocked the ball from Lattner's grasp. Penn's Noel Schmidt fell on it, and the ball game was over, as the Quakers ran two plays into the line assuring the tie. 
Notre Dame started the game like the Irish powerhouses of old, booming 89 yards do\vn the field in 15 plays the first real chance they had with the ball. Lattner, a star-spangled halfback all day, ate up most of the yardage with two dashes down the north sidelines, one for 21 yards and the other for 22. 

The drive threatened to stall, but a fourth down pass to Heap from Gug­lielmi, the first play the Columbus, Ohio, sophomore directed, brought a first down on the 11, and Lattner scored in three lunges from there. Menil Mavraides place-kicked what at the time seemed like' an unimportant extra point. 
Two plays after the kickoff Penn fullback Don Zimmer fumbled and Dave Flood recovered for Notre Dame. On the first play Guglielmi faded and hit Heap with what looked like a 44­yard touchdown toss, but the officials decreed otherwise, and instead of another score the Irish were given a 15-yard penalty. 
Notre Dame failed to move and Latt­ner punted to Schmidt, who promptly dropped the ball on the Quaker 15-yard line. Mr. Flood hapened to be nearby so he again fell on it for the Irish. 
Heap got two yards and Guglielmi five as the first quarter ended. After Neil Worden hit for a yard, Lattner went for a first down on the Penn three, but the officials said that Johnny had started to move before the ball was snapped and the Irish were set back to the 13. A fourth down Gug­lielmi pass then failed. 
It was then the Quakers decided that 
if the Irish weren't going to score they 
might as well try themselves. After 
a quick kick, Penn recovered an Irish 
bobble and moved to the Notre Dame 
eight-yard line, with an Adams pass to 
Bill Deuber the big play in the drive. 
But the Irish braced and took over on 
downs. 
Unable to gain, Lattner punted out of bounds on the Pe'nn 49. Adams con­nected with Deuber again, and the latter sprinted all the way to the Notre Dame three, whefe Gene Carrabine shoved him out of bounds. Zimmer failed at the center twice, and then Dan Shannon spilled Adams back on the seven. A pass failed and the half ended a moment later. 
Penn tied the score the second time the Quakers got the ball in the third period with the Adams to Bell aerial. Sempier's conversion came with six minutes gone in the quarter. After that the game see-sawed until the closing Irish punt. 
Statistics for the game were nearly even. Penn made 15 first downs to 11 for Notre Dame. .The Irish, led by Lattner who went for 86 yards in 16 tries, gained 183 yards rushing to 153 for the Quakers. In the air Penn made 188 yards, with 65 coming on the scor­ing toss, while the Irish quarterbacks, Guglielmi and Tom Carey, gained 97 yards on ten completions. 
Irish gang up on hapless Quaker. 

Irish End Bob O'Neil (82) drags down Longhorn Gib Dawson after a short gain. 
Texas Topples, 14-3 
By BILL NOONAN 
Austin, Texas, Oct. 4.—^An amazing the way, the Longhoms drove from transition took place in the span of a their own 48 in the first quarter to halftime intermission here this after­ND's two-yard stripe, where Gib Daw­noon as Notre Dame's underdog Fight­son, their leading ball carrier, fumbled. 
ing Irish whipped the University of The alert Irish safetyman. Gene Car-Texas Longhoms, 14-3. i-abine, recovered. 
The Irish attack, which had sput­John Lattner punted out of bounds tered and stalled while wallowing deep for Notre Dame at the start of the in its own territory during the first second quarter, and Texas began mov­half, suddenly became a well-knit, ing downfield again. A tricky pass play smooth-working machine after the sec­from Jones to Dawson to Jimmy Dan ond-half kickoff. Two 85-yard scoring Pace put the ball on the Irish seven. marches featured the ND foi-m re-After another toss went incomplete, vei"sal which saw them roll up 233 Jones hit end Tom StoUiandske on the yards on the ground and in the air, three. With fourth down coming up, compared with their meager 55-yard Texas played for three points rather output of the initial 30 minutes. than going for the touchdown. Dawson With T. Jones and his passes leading split the uprights, and it was 3-0 Texas. 
Ralph Guglielmi (3) flips a first-quarter jump pass to Johnny Lattner for a 
-J^ ' % 
•V ,€ 

In the second half, the Leahymen 
didn't .waste any time showing they 
were a different team. Neil Worden 
brought the kickoff back to the 26, and 
Joe Heap's two carries brought the 
leather to the 35-yard line. A holding 
penalty, however, slapped the Irish back 
to the 15. 
Worden quickly got those yards back 
on an off-tackle shot to the 30. From 
there. Art Hunter took a Ealph Gugli­
elmi jump pass for a first down on the 
40. Then Heap and Lattner, on succes­sive trips, put the ball on the Texas 44, the first time Notre Dame had been in enemy territory all day. Worden gained 13, and Guglielmi kept for five more. After a motion penalty set them back, Guglielmi tossed to Lattner on the flat, and he in turn spotted Joe Heap downfield. Heap was downed one yard short of paydirt. 
On the next play Lattner knifed hfs way over, and the Irish had the lead. Minnie Mavraides' boot made it 7-3. 
Outplaying the orange-clad Texans 
both on offense and defense for the 
rest of the quarter, Notre Dame headed 
goalward again early in the final 
stanza. 
The advance started on the ND 15. After a slick 29-yard keep-it play by Guglielmi and two bursts by Lattner moved the ball to the Texas 27, the Irish offense stalled, and Paul Re3m­olds was sent in to kick from the 31. Bob Raley, Texas safetyman, let the line-drive punt bounce off his chest on the two-yard line. Shannon, who was rambling downfield, pounced on the ball for the Irish, setting the stage for the last touchdown. Joe Heap racked up the six points on the first play. 
Mavraides again converted, and in one of the most startling upsets of the young football season, Notre Dame had beaten heavily-favored Texas, 14-3. 
 15-yard advance against the Steers. 
-% 
f #^ 

/i>-' *' 
^ i 
•i^%'^''£'^<^'^Vti,. 
'iM V" 
^^^ "Niii **"' 
^^f* :#^t 
It appeared as though Pitt was off and running again when Reynolds raced 34 yards in the Panther drive. They stalled however, and Blanda had to come in and kick. He tried to put it in the corner but the ball fell short. 
Notre Dame's Joe Heap gathered it in on the eight and back-tracked practically to the goal line trying to pick up some blocking. He found what he Avas looking for and by the time Heap reached the Irish 30 he Avas away. When he crossed the goal line there w^asn't anyone within shooting distance of him. 
Just one point away from tying the ball game, and a good eight and a half minutes yet to go, Mavraides' perfect 
Johnny Lattner Clav/ed by Panther 

conversion Avas nullified by a 15 yard penalty. Trying it again from 17 yards out, Mavraides second attempt was spoiled by a bad pass from center. 
Howevei-, the extra point, had it been good, wouldn't have made any differ­ence. For the next Notre Dame op­portunity to score was halted on the Pitt 24. A pitchout to John Lattner was knocked down by the Panthers' defensive right end Joe Bozek. Fred Poehler recovered for the Irish, but the resulting loss on the play made it third doAvn and 19. The Irish couldn't make it and Pitt took over with 1:45 left. 
Blanda kicked again and Notre Dame was operating from their 20. With 50 seconds to go the Irish were' penalized five yards for holding. Guglielmi then tried to pass and missed. He tried again and slipped, right end Zombek nailed him in the end zone for a safety, and Pittsburgh defeated Notre Dame for the first time since 1937. 
Guglielmi Rips Through Pitt Defense as Seaman (62), Hunter (90) Pave Way. 
Pitt Upset StuiBS Crowd 
By JACK 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 11—All de­emphasis behind them, Pitt revitalized Panthers exploded through the much heralded Notre Dame defense today, twice in the first period, and spoiled the Irish opening home game played before 45,503 gi-eatly surprised fans, vnth a 22-19 upset victorjT. 
Both teams started slowly, not ac­complishing much in the way of scoring threats, running plays and being forced to kick. -Then with ten minutes gone in the first period, Rudy Mattioli, soph­omore Pitt quarterback, pitched out to halfback Billy Reynolds, and 79 yards later the Irish were on their way to the first loss of the season. Again the Irish and the Panthers traded punts, until, with ten seconds left in the period and Pitt in possession, Jacobs, the other Panther halfback, broke into the clear in the Irish secondary, tucked another Mattioli pass under his arm and went 63 yards for the touchdown. Missing the first try for the extra point, Pitt led at the end of the first quarter, 13-0. Neither team scored in the second period. 
A combination of fumbles, penalties and a smart, aggressive Pitt defense had canceled the Irish oifense in the first half. But within two minutes after the second half had started, it appeared as though the Irish would duplicate their rally against Texas a week ago. Guglielmi chopped six points from the Pitt lead by etigineering a seven-play, 78-yard march to a touch­down, sending fullback Neil Worden through the middle for the last 12 yards. Mavraides missed the conver­
 HEALY 
sion. 
Notre Dame then went into an 8-3 defensive set-up and stopped Pitts­burgh cold on their first series of downs in the third quarter. Paul Blanda's kick drove Notre Dame's Paul Reynolds back to the 25. The Irish were then handed a 15-yard clipping penalty, and as a result Guglielmi's passes fell short of a first do\vn. 
Pitt took over on the Irish 49 yard line, calling for a fair catch on the punt by Johnny Lattner. Mattioli then launched the drive for what was to be the winning touchdown. 
He completed a 27-yard pass on the third down, which kept the march alive'. Two successive handoifs to Reynolds and Jacobs brought the ball to the one yard line with four chances to score. Matrioli needed only two, as he carried it across himself on the second try. Blanda again converted. 
Notre Dame got started on their second score without any wasted motion. They took the kickoff on the 27, covered the necessary 73 yards in 14 plays, and checked the Panthers while Mavraides converted, making the score 20-13. Five of those 14 plays were passes by Guglielmi, the last of which was to Art Hunter for 12 yards. Huntel' was dropped on the one yard line and Guglielmi called his own sig­nal, scoring without any diflSculty. 
On their next series of plays, Pitts­burgh was unable to make any head­way and had to kick. The Panthers gained possession again almost im­mediately though, intercepting Gugliel­mi's next pass. 
Elusive Ball Helps NB Top Purdue 
Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 18.—The Irish uncovered a new scoring weapon in the form of the Purdue fumble play here today and used it frequently to upset the favored Boilermakers, 26-14. 
Billed as an aerial circus starring Ralph Guglielmi and Purdue's Dale Samuels, the game instead became a comedy of errors, featuring 11 Boiler­maker bobbles and 10 by tlie Irish. Notre Dame players recovered 15 of the loose pigskins. 
The script was discarded on the very first play of the game when Purdue's Eex Brock fumbled the opening kickoff and Jackie Lee recovered. It took the Irish three plays to cover the needed 24 yards for the first touchdown, Joe Bush scoring the tally on Notre Dame's version of the fumble play. The ball squirted from Johnny Lattner's hands on the one-yard line and landed under Bush in the end zone to give the Irish the lead with 1:32 of the first quarter gone. 
Bruising line play by the Notre Dame defense stopped the Boilei-makers vnth a net gain of 63 yards in 34 attempts, while the Irish managed 195 yards against a Purdue defense that out­weighed them some 15 pounds per man. The Samuels-Guglielmi passing duel failed to materialize, as Guglielmi di­rected only six of 76 Irish offensive plays and Samuels, definitely having an off day, retired in favor of Eoy Evans for most of the second half. 
Both quarterbacks completed touch­down passes, however, with Samuels hitting Bei-nie Flowei-s from 27 yards out in the fii'st quarter to tie the score, 7-7. Guglielmi's TD aerial was a bril­liant 47-yard effort to Lattner on the last play of the first half to give the Irish a 20-7 halftime lead. In the meantime Tom Cai'ey directed a 68­yard march for Notre Dame's second touchdoAvn, Neil Worden going over from the one. 
Purdue came within threatening dis­tance once in the second half, after re­covering a Carey fumble on Notre Dame's 35 early in the fourth quarter. It took the Boilermakers just two plays to score their second touchdown, with Flowers taking an Evans pass on the 20 and sprinting into the end zone. 
The Irish lost no time in adding the insurance touchdown after Purdue's quick tally. Lattner took the kickoff to the 26 and 12 plays later Worden was across the goal line with his second TD of the day. Tom Carey directed this drive and accounted for most of the yardage himself with a 41-yard 
By BOB FINNEY 

The 26 points proved to be more than enough, and Purdue didn't threaten again. 
After Lee picked Brock's fumble out of the air to open the game, Joe Heap made a first down on the 14, and Latt­ner reached the goal line in two plays, fumbling to Bush for the score. 
Purdue was forced to punt after re­ceiving Mavi-aides' kickoff, but Phil Matej a intercepted a Carey pass on Notre Dame's 40 and Samuels' tosses worked this time. Flowers carried his pass into the end zone with 6:45 of the first quarter left. 
Noti-e Dame came right back to take the lead after the kickoff, aided by a roughing penalty and a weird offsides battle on the Purdue goal line. 
With second and three to go on the Boilei-maker seven the Irish shifted into the ancient box formation and pulled Purdue offside, moving the ball to the two. Lattner Avent over, but Notre Dame was offside, and the ball went back to the seven. The shift mse worked again to pull Purdue offside, and Worden ended the referee's march­ing by powering over on the next play. Menil Mavi'aides kicked his second extra point, and the score was 14-7. 
The second quarter was a duel of punts and fumbles, with the ball chang­ing hands 11 times. Finally Seaman recovered a Mateja fumble on Purdue's 37 with one second to go in the half, setting the stage for Guglielmi's touch­down heave to Lattner, and the Irish left the field leading, 20-7. 
Brock again fumbled the kickoff to open the second half, but Notre Dame couldn't score, and Purdue took over after Mavraides missed a field goal at­tempt from the eight. Penalties kept Notre Dame in the hole throughout the quarter, but the Irish defense and Boilennaker fumbles prevented Purdue from mounting a drive. Late in the period an Evans-to-Flowers pass gained 47 yards and put the ball on the Irish 
20. On the second play, however. Max Schmaling fumbled, and Jackie Lee re-covex-ed on the Notre Dame 15. 
As the fourth quarter began Notre Dame drove upfield, losing the ball when a Carey pass was intercepted by Norm Montgomery on the Irish 41. Purdue drove down to the 11 before Schmaling fumbled again, and Sam Palumbo recovered. 
Carey started the team upfield again, but fumbled on Notre Dame's 35, set­ting the stage for Purdue's, last score, putting the Boilermakers within six points of the Irish. 
Boilermaker hopes were short-lived and they could oiUy stop the Irish once during the final touchdown drive. Latt­ner was smeared on the 32 for a third­and-fifteen situation after making one first down, but Carejr's long pass to Hunter ei-ased Purdue's efforts, and it it was easy from then on. 
Evans filled the air with passes in the short time remaining, but, after making one first down, he was puHed down on his own 48 as the game ended. 
pass to Art Hunter. Fullback Worden Barrels Over Purdue Goal-Line for Notre Dame's Second Score. 
December 5, 1952 
T=r.^5'^^W^«TS2*rfrv.c­
ing the march — once on his own 34 and again on the Tarheel 34 — the young Irish quarterback gambled on fourth down. The first time, Worden made his gamble good, and the second time Guglielmi himself sneaked for the needed yardage. 
Six times during the drive Guglielmi hit green-shirted receivers. His fifth completion came after the second gam­ble. Heap gathering it in on the 10. Then, with 18 seconds left, Guglielmi pitched into the end zone to Hunter, who made a diving catch inches from the ground. Arrix made it 14-7. 
After the intermission. Heap took the kickofi^ and broke the back of the Tarheels with an 84-yard touchdov.-n gallop. Arrix started making it a habit, and the scoreboard read 21-7 with the 
Another Lattner gain is brought to a halt by Tarheels Eure (72) and Lackey. 
last half 18 seconds old. Carolina still kept coming, but the Irish defensive platoon dug in on the 
^, 

ND 23 and held. With 77 yards to go
XD Says NO to 34-14 
again, Carey came back in at quarter­
By KEN MURPHY back. Twelve plays later, keyed by Lattner's 29-yard sally with a pitch-out, the Irish were a yard from pay-
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 2-5.—Foi- the successful, freshman quarterback Mar­dirt. Tliree straight cracks at the line 
first time this season the eyes of .54,000 shall Newman dropped back and pitched got nowhere, but on the do-or-die 
Stadium fans were not glued to tlie a scoring pass to end Tom Adler. handoff, second-string fullback Tom 
clock in the waning minutes, as the Adler converted and the Tarheels wei"e Fighting Irish unexpectedly stumbled back in the ball game, 7-7. McHugh bucked it over. Arrix proved across a breather in the suicide sched­Instead of the anticipated scoring he was human, and with 8:40 gone it ule here this afternoon. was 27-7. 
duel, the remainder of the first quarter 
The oddsmakers' 20-point spread was resolved itself into a scoreless punting Lattner set up the final Irish tally right on the nose, as a diehard North duel with the Carolinians, on the in the fourth quarter Avith an inter­Carolina team, handicapped by a three-strength of Wallace's strong foot, get­ception of a NeAVTnan pitch. Only 1:40 week polio layoff, bowed to the home ting a little the better of it. deep in that final period, McHugh forces, 34-14. And as the second quarter wore on, sliced off tackle and rambled through It took the Notre Dame squad juct the vaunted Tarheel defense proved all the entiz-e Tarheel secondary with a 20­four plays and less than two minutes it was cracked up to be. Finally, with yard scoring carry. Arrix picked up to maneuver the opening kickoff 77 three minutes of the half left on the where he had left off, and it was 34-7. yards into scoring territory. scoreboard clock, Ralph Guglielmi came Midway through the quarter North Quarterback Tom Carey gave Latt­in at quarterback to see if he could Carolina retaliated, as Newman coHab­ner first crack at the Carolina defense make the deadline. oi-ated with end Benny Walser on a and he obliged for five yai-ds to the 28. With the Carolina goal 76 yards up-17-yard scoring pass, but it was too Heap then hit big Ai't Hunter with a field, Guglielmi started driving the ten little and too late. Adler's second con­
14-yard jump pass for a first down on men uath him relentlessly. Twice dur­version made the final tally 34-14. the 42. Heap kept it on the next play, belted over Tom Seaman's left guard 
Ifs anybody's ball as Ready (74) moves in to recover a fumble by Lattner (left) 
post, was sprung loose by Don Penza, and i-aced 50 yards down the sideline before being driven out of bounds on the Carolina eight-yard line. Fullback Neil Worden got into the act and picked up the remaining yardage on the ensuing play. Bob Arrix came through in his baptism of fire with a perfect placement, and it was 7-0. 
But Coach Car] Snavely's crew wasn't ready to quit yet, and parlayed a recovered fumble into the tying score two minutes later. When the Tarheels couldn't get moving against the tough Irish defense. Bud Wallace boomed a punt to Heap on the Notre Dame 20. Heap got to the 23 before he was separated from the pigskin, and Carolina's Dick Kocomik recovered. After a crack at the line proved un-
t^'-L" ...'-^r-i-.-' 
..i«i!^i>^y.:iviy:\, 's-^t v i^fe- <j •^ -•I---',<.:.:^.A4C5^-^--.--.!,v.-rf-V.--r ..•i.,^.,.,;.->^..vj»: f^s^j^B^rr^f e 
ABOVE: The girls are finally ready, and their sophomore escorts whisk them off to an evening of dancing at the Palais. BELOW: When the bands got tired, there were the Harmonicats; when the feet got tired, there were cokes and talk. 
Saturday was the time for strolling, then cheering the Irish to another victory. 
Cotillion Time 

Fall, a home football weekend, and the traditional opener of the Notre Dame social season, the Sophomore Cotillion. 
First on the agenda was the pep rally in the Fieldhouse. Assured that ND would win on the morrow, they hustled off to the Palais. There, from an Indian Summer setting, a "Caro­lina Moon" beamed approval upon the 400 couples, as they danced to the music of Johnny Palmer. 
An impressive victory over the Tar­heels the next afternoon was fol­lowed by the big Victory Dance. Mass and Communion Sunday morning, "g0odbyes" to the imports, and the weekend had vanished all too quickly. 
Irish Dnmp Xavy, 17-6 
By BOB FROLICHER 
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 1. — Notre Dame's Fighting Irish, backed by over a thousand student-trippers, dumped the Naval Academy, 17-6 at Cleveland's Municipal Stadium today before a near capacity crowd of 62,000. 
The vaunted Midshipman forward wall just wasn't enough as the Irish tore it to shreds, using every means of scoring except the point after touch­down. This marked Notre Dame's sev­enth consecutive victory over Navy. 
Leahy's forces started off wnth a bang. After taking the Navy kick-oflf on the 28, it took the Irish only seven plays to score, Worden crashing over from the one. The height of this drive was a 41-yard pass and run on an through and blocked it, Capt. John Gorski recovering for Navy on the 41. The Midshipmen again stalled, and on a fourth-dowai-one-to-go gamble, end Bob O'Neil and tackle Sam Palumbo crashed through to cut the try short at midfield. 
Early in the second period the Irish tried their third field goal which fell short. After Navy's offense was stop­ped, the Midshipmen punted to the Irish 36. A Guglielmi to Penza toss moved the ball to the Middle 43. By virtue of a Guglielmi to Heap pass, and successive runs by Paterra, Worden, and Heap, Notre Dame pushed the ball to the eight-yard line. Two plays later Worden plunged over to end the first 
Halfback Heap (42) Scoots Dov/n the Sidelines on a Punt Return Against Navy. 
optional play from Joe Heap to Johnny Lattner. However, a lo-yard penalty nullified the T.D. and set the Irish back. After Guglielmi's third down pass was incomplete, Bob Arrix came in to boot a 26-yard field goal to put the Irish in front 3-0. 
After exchanging punts following the kickofF, linebacker Dick Szymanski in-tei'cepted a pass by fullback Fred Franco on the Navy 23. However, Guglielmi fumbled three plays later, the Middies recovering this time at midfield. The Irish defense stymied the Navy attack and a reverse on a fake punt by Paul Reynolds moved the ball again into Middle territory. 
The Irish could only move to the 35. Arrix attempted his second field goal, but Eisenhauer, who was later injured and removed from the game, broke half scoring. Arrix's try for the point was. blocked. Shortly before the half ended Mavi-aides kicked the Irish's fourth try for a field goal, but the boot was wide. 
The second half tui-ned into a de­fensive battle, the Irish being the first to score. The Leahymen moved from their own 25 to the Navy 10 where they lost the ball on downs. An off­side penalty pushed the Middies back to their O^\TI five. Two plays later quailerback Steve Schoederbek faded deep and was pinned in the end zone for a safety by Irish end O'Neil. 
Middle Bob Cameron punted from his own 30 and Reynolds returned it to the Navy 40. A run by Paterra and five consecutive carries by Worden rammed the ball all the way to the Navy 17. Two runs by Reynolds and 
Paul Reynolds Breaks Up a Navy Pass. 
Paterra moved the ball deep into Mid-die territory, this time to the four. Worden hit the line twice for the Irish score. Mavraides' P.A.T. try missed and Notre Dame led, 17-0. 
The Midshipmen averted a shutout by making their only deep penetration and scoring their lone touchdown in the fourth quarter. Linebacker Tony Cor­renti intercepted a Guglielmi pass on the Navy 40 and returned it to the Irish 39. After pushing for a fii-st dowTi, alert Jack Whelan snagged a Schroeder pass on Notre Dame's 31. However, on the next play Guglielmi fumbled on a handoff to Reynolds, Gurski again recovering, on the 30. On fourth down Schoederbek passed to end Jim Byrom who grabbed it on the 10 and scampered the remaining dis­tance. 
Lattner Stiff-Arms Toward Paydirt. 
The Scholastic 

Irish chances against the Navy were discussed enroute to the Cleveland scene. BELOW: Pro football scout Jock Lavolle speaks at rally held in the Carter Hotel. 
All Aboard! Student trip gets underway from St. Mary's siding. 
:^:. V-. 
r' 

1 he Clevetand Express
CLEVELAND STADIUM 

Outnumbered but not out-weather, rally, victory, and Sat­
.*J^A.9K:­
urday night dance. On Sunday 

cheered in spacious Cleveland there was time for last-minute 
i--i Stadium, N. D. student trippers 
sight-seeing, and then the train, experienced a long and memor­

40 winks, St. Mary's siding, and able weekend in Ohio's largest 
it was all over—a good one to city. Everything was perfect— remember. 
The Scoreboard indicates the trend. 
'f(ii^ 

Some of the 62,000 watch Joe Heap pull in a pass as two Navy tacklers move in. BELOW: More music—this time in Dixieland fashion by members of the ND bond. 
An accordion concert met with the approval of the passengers. 

Irish Spirit Triumphs Over Oklahoma 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. S—An in­.-pired, courageous band of Fighting-Irishmen came from behind three times on this hazy autumn afternoon to upset ilie splendid and highly-favored Okla­homa Sooners 27-21 in a titanic strugnle "that will go down as a classic in Notre Dame football lore. 
The undefeated Oklahomans, rated Xo. 4 in the nation, came to South Rend expecting to add to their national championship hoi)es with a cru.-hing win over the Irish in the first encounter between the two teams. But it was only the great running of the Sooners mag­nificent Billy Vessels that kept them in the game at all. 
Vessel.- racked up all three Sooner touchdown? and accumulated l!>.j yai-ds in 17 carries, but his individual efforts were more than nullified by a galaxy of Irish stars that luminated the grid­iron before a capacity throng of 57,000 and a national TV audience of an esti­mated 30.000.000. 
From the very start there was little doubt that the Irish were keyed to turn the Game of the Year into the Upset of the Year. Directed by Tom Carey, they stormed down to the Sooner 2-yai-d line the second time they got the ball. A penalty set the Irish back at this point, and Bob Arrix's eventual field goal attempt from the 8-yard line failed. 
The Wilkinson-coached Sooners drew first blood late in the first quarter after a poor ND punt gave them possession on the Irish 28. T-magician Eddie Crowder flipped a short pass to Vessels, who scampered the remaining 20 yards untouched, and Buddy Leake converted the first of his three successful at-temj)ts. 
Then late in the second period the Irish put together a scoring drive of 
•3.9 yards to tie the game at 7-7. Ralph 
Touchdown! The Sooners seem unhappy 
By TOM FOOTE 

Guglielmi threw a 16-yard pass to Joe Heap for the touchdown and Arri.x con­verted to deadlock the count. Just two minutes later, Vessels shot through the right side of the Irish line, cut over to the east sideline, and rocketed 62 yards to give the Sooner.-^ a 14-7 halftinie ad­vantage. It looked then as if the heralded Sooner oft"ense might eventual­ly run away with the game in the second half. 
But Irish hopes surged again when 

the Leahymen marched in lo plays 
from their own 20 to the Sooner 6 
after receiving the kickofi". At this 
point, Keller of Oklahoma recovered a)i 
Irish bobble, but a few plays later, 
Lattner intercepted a Crowder aerial 
and blasted his way 20 yards to the 
Sooner 7. Worden smashed over in 
three plays, and Arrix made it 14-14. 
Yet, the third play after the kickoft" 

found Billy Vessels again wandering 
loose in the Irish secondary, and the 
brilliant All-American threaded and 
sped his way 47 yards for the third 
Oklahoma touchdown. 
This turn of events, which would have demoralized many a lesser team, only served to spark the Irish to great­er heights. After receiving the kick­otF, they marched 79 yards in 12 plays to tie up the game again. A 36-yard pass play from Heap to Lattner had put the Ii'ish on the Sooner 27, and Carey then called on Worden for the next seven plays. "The Bull" respond­ed by powering into the end zone for the final yard, just after the fourth quarter opened. Arrix, under great pressure for the third time, converted to make it 21-21. 
One minute later and Notre Dame 

 as ND's Worden matches their 3rd TD. 
was in front to stay, after one of the most devastating tackles ever witnessed in the Irish Stadium. Larry Grigg grabbed Mavraides' kickott' on the 6 and dashed to the 24 where he was met by one Dan Shannon in a collision that i-ocked the Stadium and sent reverbera­tions all the way back to the Sooner state, where the echoes will continue to haunt the Oklahomans for .'^ome time to come. 
The ball was knocked loose from 

mm^f^-m^f?M 
Sixty-minute Lattner nails Leake. 

Grigg (or better said, Grigg w a s knocked loose from the ball) and Al Kohanowich recovered for the Irish. 
Lattner then stormed 17 yards to the 7 and Carey quickly pulled the Sooners offside by shifting from the T into the box formation. This placed the ball on the 2, and after Worden barreled to the 1-footline, Carey sneaked over as Irish fans went wild. Arrix's try for extra point was blocked, but as things turned out, it was not needed. 
Thirteen minutes remained in the game and with it plenty of scoring chances for the potent Sooners. But the superb defensive play of the Irish, an important factor throughout the game, rose to the occasion to stymie the Big Seven champs, as the Sooners failed to advance beyond the Iri.«h 30 in the closing minutes. 
And when Reynolds emphatically batted down "^''essel's last desperation pass and the final gun sounded, stu­dents, alumni, and rooters in general rushed onto the field, hoisted Irish stars to their shoulders and marched them off the field in an impressive victory cele­bration. 
The Scholastic 
One l^onderf al Weekend 

This v/as a special one — the biggest weekend of the season. There was a lot of activity involved in it— the pep rally at the Fieldhouse on Friday evening and later, if you were fortunate enough to have a bid, the first annual Commerce Ball got under­way at the Palais Royaie. On Satur­day the Hall decorations went on display to the thousands about the campus. Then there was the Okla­homa pep rally and the game—and what a game! Afterwards, if you cheered for ND, you rejoiced at the Victory Dance. Sunday: Mass and the usual "goodbyes," and the cam­pus was quiet again. 
Farley's clairvoyant double entry took top honors in the hall decoration contest. 
LEFT: Commercemen and their dates successfully launched a RIGHT: Badinites got into the act with a poorman's banquet. new enterprise. One young lady handled the advertising. Everyone seemed happy—even the Oklahoma cheerleaders. 
Dec. 5, 1952 
Bobby Joseph holds, Bobby Arrix kicks, as the Irish break the ice with a 14-yard three-pointer in the third quarter. 
FumMes Costly in MSC Victory 
East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 15—^Before 
a record-breaking crowd of 52,472 at 
Macklin Field, a courageous band of 
Notre Danie defenders could not com­
pensate for the fatal rash of fumbles 
by the Irish offense as they handed 
Michigan State's • Spartans a 21-3 
victoiy and the mythical national cham­
pionship. 
Gamewise the statistics showed that 
the Irish outran, outpassed and totally 
outgained the Spartans. The statistics 
also showed that Notre' Dame backs 
fumbled seven times and the alert 
Spartan defense pounced on all seven 
bobbles. Two of the fumbles were 
turned into touchdowns, with the help 
of two 15-yard penalties. 
After the' Spartans kicked off to open 
the game, they got a break that could 
have broken the game wide open, but 
couldn't capitalize on it. Quarterback 
Tom Carey fumbled on Notre Dame's 
first play from scrimmage, and Doug 
Weaver recovered for the Spartans on 
the Irish 34. Running plays picked up 
a first down but two five-yard penalties 
and a superb Irish defense shoved the 
Spartans back again. On fourth down 
fullback Evan Slonac tried a field goal 
from the 35 which fell short. 
Both defenses dug in after that and [neither team was able 'to move out of 
its own territory through the exchange 
of punts. Early in the second quarter 
however MSC's Gordon Se'rr recovered 
a Lattner fumble on the Irish 15, but 
the surging Notre Dame defensive wall 
again threw back the Spartan threat 
Before the half had ended the Irish 
fumbled away the ball once more, but 
By JACK SAND 

the powerful Spartans could do nothing about it. 
After a bitterly-fought scoreless first half the Irish broke the ice—early in the third quarter when Bob Arrix booted a 14-yard field goal. The score was set up when State's Billy Wells fumbled on the opening play and John­ny Lattner, a defensive standout all day, recovered on the Spartans 13. 
At this point it looked as if Notre Dame 's lead was as big as a mountain, especially since the Spartans were pushed back to their own nine after the ensuing kickoff. However a quick kick by State's quarterback Tom Yew­cic gave the Ii'ish the ball on their own 40, from which they drove to the 28 only to lose possession through another fumble. 
The Spartans wasted this one too, when Lattner intercepted a Willie Thrower pass on the Notre Dame 10 to stop MSC's only decent drive of the game. 
On the next play,, however. Spartan linebacker Dick Tamburo made his third straight recovery of an. Irish fumble on ND's 13, a fumble which finally proved costly to the Irish. After picking up a meager five yards against the "eleven blocks of granite," the Spartans received a gift in the form of a holding penalty on the Irish which placed the pigskin on the one yard Una From here Capt. Don McAuliffe slipped through for his first of two touchdowns. Slonac converted and State led 7-3 'with 
five minutes left in the third period. 
With approximately 11 minutes gone in the third period the Spartans scored again as McAuliffe piled over from the one, after Henry BuUough fell on Fran Paterra's fumble on the Irish 21. Another holding penalty inflicted on the Irish hurt in the same spot—^the one yard line, and gave the Spartans a 14-3 lead. 
Early in the fourth period the' Irish, with Ralph Guglielmi doing the quar­terbacking, smashed 64 yards downfield, only to be frustrated when they missed a first down by inches on the Spartan one. Lattner provided the longest run of the day during this march when he rambled 36 yards to the MSC 34. At this point he pitched a 24-yard pass to Joe Heap on the Spartan 11, from where Neil Worden and Guglielmi carried to the three on a couple of plows. On fourth down Guglielmi tried a quarterback sneak which fell short of the crucial first down by inches. 
With only four minutes remaining in the contest. Spartan safety man Jim Ellis intercepted a Guglielmi pass on the Irish 34, and returned it to the 24. The lads from the cow college then capitalized on this final break as Slonac 
cut around right end for the tally. He then followed "with his third straight extra point, making it 21-3. 
Overall the Irish churned up 147 on the ground to State's 128. In the for­ward passing departme'nt the Leahymen held an 150 to 41 edge. But all this 
•was nullified by seven Irish fumbles and 89 yards of very disheartening penalties. 
The-Scholastic 

Irish Romp Over Hatrkeyes9 27'0 
Iowa City, Iowa, Nov. 22—The old 
adage, "While the cat's away the mice 
will play" was in full evidence this 
afternoon as the 1952 Fighting Irish 
overpowered Iowa 27-0. With Head 
Coach Frank Leahy confined to his 

home by a flu attack, Line Coach Joe 
McArdle unleashed a powerful attack 
and a stalwart defense which crushed 

the upset-hungry Hawkeyes. 
The mice—Joe Heap, Neil Worden, 

Johnny Lattner and Tom McHugh— 
ran with devas:tating power and speed 
as they removed any chance the Hawk-
eyes had for duplicating the many up­
sets which have featured this fine 
rivalry. 
Irish offensive backs were not alone in the laurel-taking, as Notre Dame's fine defensive unit turned in another excellent performance. Although with­out the injured Dave Flood, the defense stopped the Iowa attack five times within the 25 yard line. Sam Palumbo, Bob O'Neil and Jackie Lee sparked the" defensive line as they denied paydirt to the attacking lowans, 
Forrest Evashevski's pupils first felt the pierce of the Irish attack just six minutes and 13 seconds after the game began. Taking the initial kickoff, Notre Dame drove 66 yards in 13 plays as Neil Worden crashed over from the two. 
Worden scoi'e'd his touchdown from the right halfback position, as Coach McArdle" experimented with a back­field completed by Tom McHugh, Joe Heap, and Tom Carey. McHugh led the attack with his powerful rushes and key blocking. 
After holding Iowa on the' ensuing kickoff, the Irish stalwarts marched goalward again only to be denied on the one foot line. Iowa then put on its longest drive of the day as it marched all the way to its own 43 before being forced to punt. 
Both teams unleashed their passing arms as Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey traded salvos with Jack Hess and Dusty Rice of Iowa. The Hawk-eyes seemed to be getting the best of the barrage as they drove down to the' Irish seven. At this point the Notre Dame defensive stiffened and Lattner punted out of danger. 
The Hawkeye' attack was repulsed again and Binky Broeder punted to Lattner on the 14. Following a pha­lanx of blockers, Lattner cut to his right and went the entire 84 yards for the score. 
The third period was scoreless as the Irish accumulated the majority of their 145 yards of penalties. 
By TOM WELLY 
In the final stanza Notre Dame's fleet array of backs found paydirt again, as "Bull" Worden added his second touchdown and Joe Heap took a pass from Guglielmi from the 12. Guglielmi's pass to Heap was the best play of the day, as the faking of Mc­Hugh and Guglielmi brought the Hawk-eye defensive in, only to be surprised by the accurate heave to Heap in the end zone. 
Notre Dame showed its versatility in the final drive as Fran Paterra and Ralph Guglielmi traded the running and passing assignments in an attack that was climaxed by Worden's drive from the two. 
Paterra's pass to Hunter and Gug­lielmi's bootleg play for 16 yards fea­tured the final scoring sequence of the afternoon. 
Iowa's valiant Hawkeyes struck back with Bert Britzmann passing to his favorite target, Don McBride, as they attempted to score in the fading min­utes of the game. Paul Rejmolds ended the uprising by picking off a Britzmann toss on his own five yard line to halt the final drive of the game. 
Don Bucci, Bob Martin, and Bob Rigali saw action in the last quarter as Notre Dame showed their best all-around strength of the season. The combination of a tight-fingered back­field and an immovable line proved the difference as the Irish effectively re­bounded to supply Frank Leahy with a perfect 27-0 tonic. 

John Lattner nears half-way mark in his 84-yard punt return for a touchdown. 
December 5, 1952 
LEFT: Heap tries to move away from a troop of Trojans. RIGHT: Worden (at left under Trojan) stopped, for a change. 
Trojan Defeat Ciitnaxes Upset Season 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 29—An underdog Notre Dame team gave pre­\aousIy proud and unbeaten Southern California a defensive lesson this crisp Winter afternoon, as 58,394 watched the Irish fashion a convincing 9-0 up­set win over the Pacific Coast Confer­ence champions. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit was the difference in today's rugged battle. Combining vicious line play with an alert pass defense, the Irish completely baffled a Trojan offense that had rolled to nine straight wins during the course of the season. The Californians man­aged only five first downs and 64 yards rushing while five of their aerials were intercepted. With the exception of one major USC threat, it was all Notre Dame. 
Ihe Irish scored their touchdown in the second period when Jim Sears, find­ing himself trapped after receiving AU-American John LattneT's high, floating punt, attempted a hasty lateral to teammate Al Carmichael—^who was no­where around. Menil Mavraides, Irish right guard, pounced on the ball on the Trojan 19 yard line. The Irish drove to the one yard line, then with 8:35 remaining in the second period Lattner plunged for the touchdown. 
Early in the third period Notre Dame drove 37 yards to the USC 17 yard line where their attack sputtered and stalled. On fourth down. Bob Ar­rix, who missed his first placement at­tempt after Lattner's touchdown, lofted the clincher—^a neat three-pointer that split the north uprights. Notre Dame lead 9-0. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit got its greatest test mid-way in the fourth 
By BOB HAINE 

period, after the Trojans recovered an Irish fumble on the Irish 27 yard line. Notre Dame linemen Bob O'Neil, Sam Palumbo, Jackie Lee, Bob Ready and Paul Matz and linebackers Dan Shan­non, Dick Szymanski and Capt. Jack Alessandrini collaborated to stop USC fullback Leon Sellers inches short of a first down and a yard short of a touch­down. 
The' Irish took over on their one yard line—a testimonial to their over-power­ing defensive strength. 
Only on one occasion did Notre Dame fail to exhibit an air-tight pass defense. In the fourth period Sears completed a 50-yard toss to end Jim Hayes, who slipped and fell on the ND 25 yard line. On the next play Shanrion inter­
4^%..' 
The season's iitting climax. 

cepted a Sears pass on the Notre Dame ten to end the threat. 
The Trojans, in the course of the afternoon, became adjusted to Irish in­terceptions. Besides Shannon's steal, Lattner, Jack Whelan, Paul Eeynolds and Alessandrini picked off Southern Cal aerials—and beat the Trojans at their own specialty. 
Until today the Trojans had inter­cepted 29 of their opponents passes, seven for touchdowns. Today they picked-off only two of Notre Dame's 15 attempted passes. 
Contrasted with the Trojans total of five first do\vns were the 12 made by the Irish, who shredded the Trojan de­fenses for a 194-yard rushing total for the' afternoon. Only in the passing department did the Irish stumble, gain­ing only ten yards -on one completion in 15 attempts. 
Worden was the top Irish ground gainer with 73 yards. Lattner, the 60 minute performer, had 66 and Pattera 42 yards on five carries—^the best aver­age of the day. 
The Notre Dame victory was the seventh in the current campaign (plus two losses, one tie) and marked the 15th Irish victory over the Trojans against seven loses and two ties in a series that began in 1926. 
By toppling the Trojans from the Nation's undefeated, the amazing Irish added the fourth sectional champion to its list of victims. The others were Texas, winner of the Southwest crown; Purdue, co-champion of the Big Ten, and Oklahoma, Big Seven champions. The Irish tied Penn, Ivy League'vdnner. 
The Scholastic 

6 oooopopc ocoppppopooooooc ir; 
sia 

c3 o' COc5 o o o oO CO O' O C5 O' o' O O' CO* O" O" O' O" C co' i =2 CO CO CM CO 
""1 

oo<r)Ooooc omooooooocoooooo CI 
CO -^ CM 5 = s 
o

CO •* 
=.-=5

CM CM =•-a. p. 
OO-HOOOOO O ^'O OOOOOO^OOOOC CO CM CO CO X^ 
s 
|5< 
oooooooo OCOOOOOOOO-COOCTiOiiOO C71 in '-1-^ CO CO
0 > Kl m 
% 
t-4 ^ooooooo O'^OOOOOOOCMOCMCM'^O lO lO 1.™f 1"^ 
lii
S6 

O O O O O O O L O O OiOOOOOOCMO-^iOOCMOiO CO -»^»^ ^ O^ !>• 
o 

« 1^ ' 
OOOOOOCO O OCOOOOO-^CMOtOOOCMOiO CM
^ 
Il' 

z 
OOOOOOtOO OCOOOOOOOO-^OOOiOO CO CM
W 1^1
— o 
CO 
1—1 •>—I 

a OOOOOOOO or^ooooooooooo-^c CO
Pi 
IP ­
CM 

Cd a OOOO'-Hor^cT) OCMOOOOCMf^ThOOOOOO r^ '--I 
T-i O -^ LO 1-1 1-, CO CO CO 
Ih

z ^ CM CM 1—1
rt 
•?£f 
OOOO'-iOCDCO Or^OOOOi — CO'T-OOOOOCO Th 
^•sl.

CM ^^ Ci 
« ^i: 
^ o OOOOOcoOO ocomoooocoooooooo r^ O -g-'l 
m 03 CO CO CO CO 'CTi CM to '—•
z — t—.1—o. z^..
^i( 

^ ts? 
H OOOOCOCD ^HO OCMOOOOOOOOOOOOO lO lO 1—( 1—1 ~ 
Z^ =i:^ 
«0M H 261 
O OOOOOi-ir^O OCMI-HOOOOCMOOOOOOO CO O P^ CM CO oi CO 
s 

< OOOO'-HCMCOO OtO'-'OOOOCOOO OO O O O m x^ 
'""i 

cu rft •>*< -^ O Ci 4-a,=.i—i CVI y-^ •J!-?
• 11=3 
Q or>.ppiqcocop pppocnppcqcJcqcDopoT^ CO J -ill 
CO

• > CJ'^OO-^^O-^O cDiocMc5cocMc5'*ocvi-<^c5c5c3cd 111s.?r.
< 1 ''"^ « • o 1 m 
CM-<*'CM0-^CM000C7)-*000-* CO lO
omoocM»-4coo • ^^
>< CO CO CO 1—1 CO CM 1 CO •<*<»-i O ;^ 
o

CO r^ 1—1 1 1—1 lO O CO CM -—1 
OcOOOCMCOOlO CMCD'-iOCM-rtOCOOCO-HOOOO CO « ^ -^ Th CO rh CO CM 1—t lO CO i
11

T—< 1—< 
lO 
12i| 

OC750COCOCOOCO OOOCOCMOCMOOOOOOOO CO CO ir •^^^
T m

—i '^^ CO 1—1 CO CO O 
."^ 

OCOOOOOOO ooooooooooooooo CO '—' 
g 

O 'li oooooooo ooocoooooooooooo CO CO 
w/^^* 

^ < 'SI 
P< 
1
Q
i^^^ 

000'--'''~'''~'iO'—1 omoocMOooooooooo CO X^ 2
\A\ --a6
CM<—>

%j =5 <.s>.
^^F • _ '. en 
i

• • H s ?!« 
•!z: 
1=^1 
en « g 
1 ^^I 
. u ->­

• t/2 •-H OIJ en o c c c
c c ! 
) ;. 'o ;= 

. t • i. : « i c g 13 t
1 B ^1
bfl 5i 3 4. 5£, \ a o o < 0 rt >. J5 CI H O ft-^<SmOOKtr ) -\>2,^^^^^0{£.^^^^^^^ fSS 
_^ 

i-^i.:  
^  
.  \  

feolING 
M-.­
~ri<^ 
4 >^ 
i\ .:--:3l 
,'>/S^=X 
'}^^^, 
N 
-V. 
-.^" 
•€4:;^ 

-'^^i 
>4BM*1^ 

^<^f 
^ V ^ 

^\\Hv '? 
i; 
\^ 

^^' - jZ^'!:l^^4>•lt-•^^^i^^?U^>l^ :^rv^•ij-V^ "' 
•rt'^SK­i'^'i-'ms^i 

,^%'A A 
•^t % 
fi^ 

"'"••^^o*  
^^w  
•^^^S^  
W'^mi --*  
lea  ­ '^crt*^•'t.t  

«irl!i 
•f1 

'••^'i 
^mpTids 

Zhe Zeam... 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish of 1952 
First row (l.r.): Bob Joseph, Lee Getschow, Neil Worden, Frank Varrichione, Bob O'Neil, Jack Alessandrini (c), Al Kohanowich, Tom Murphy, Jim Weithman, Virgil Bardash, Ed Buczkiewicz, Tom Seaman. 
Second row: Art Nowack, Walt Cabral, Bob Arrix, Armando Galardo, Fran Paterra, Paul Reynolds, Art Hunter, Dan Shannon, Dick Frasor, Dick Szymanski, Paul Matz, Joe Heap, Ralph Guglielmi. 
Third Row: Ed Sarna, Tom Carey, Bob Rigali, John Lattner, Jim 
Schroder, Don Penza, Joe Bush, Rockne Morrissey, Menil Mavraides, Sam Palumbo, Tony Pasquesi, Don Bucci, Bob Taylor. 
Fourth Row: John Stoeller (mgr.), Emory Dakoske (mgr.), Paul Robst, Jim Bigelow, Bob Ready, Tom McHugli, Gane Carrabine, Jack Lee, Fred Poehler, Bob Millenbach (mgr.). 
Not in picture: Dave Flood, Fred Mangialardi, Jack Whelan, Bob Martin, Jack Stephens, Ed Cook, Leo Callaghan, Pat Galvin. 
fi<fSSSSS^fai!S/^:V-^Sfsa;^ 
^-i^ 
jSm *•' 
*mi 

^t  #  
t-;  
•tc.  '^C^'  

'VI 

Zk Players 
They come from all parts of the United States . . . from Honolulu to Miami . . . from Lowell to New Orleans . . . and especially from Chicago to Pittsburgh . . . from large cities and small towns . . . from rich families and poor . . . from Catholic prep schools and public high schools . . . but now united under the Golden Dome for a common purpose and ideal .. . to play and to win for Notre Dame. . . . From the first week of September to the last week of November, they live, think, and breathe the game. . . . Yet, they are still primarily Notre Dame students. . . . They study, work, play, and pray . . . have the same hopes, desires, fears, and worries as any other college student . . . remaining for the most part un­affected by their success and fame on the gridiron. . . . Repre­senting the school of Our Lady each Fall Saturday, theirs is the task of continuing the glorious traditions of the "Fighting Irish." . . . Win, lose, or draw they exemplify the Spirit of Notre Dame . . . and have caught the imagination of thousands. . . . In keeping with their Rockne heritage, they do not play to die gamely . . . but fight to live. 
JACK ALESSANDRINI, captain of the 1952 football team, hails from Charleston, W. Va., and is a 21-year-old senior major­ing in business administration. He played right guard on offense and linebacker on defense. One of the many outstanding plays Jack made this year was in the Texas game when he broke up a play close to the N.D. goal line which ended a Longhom scoring threat. After his two years in the Air Force, Jack hopes to play pro ball ^andj.theitgo,into, business with his father. His intense'interest in'the game was shown by his hard work and methodical play. A born leader, his sportsmanship and industry have proven him a worthy captain of the Fighting Irish. 
Decembf 5, 1952 
DON PENZA, first-string offensive left end, has made a special­ty of driving, shoe-string catches for valuable yardage when it 
^^^ is most needed. Notable examples are those of the North Caro­lina and Na\'y games. Don is in the Arts and Letters College, majoring in political science. 
Cwk 
^Gchlu 
Don Penza 

TOM MURPHY, one of the few seniors on the 1952 roster pursuing three monograms, is an economics major and would like to enter a business firm or law school after graduation. As first-line left tackle on offense, Tom saw his full share of action this year. Art Hunter 
ART HUNTER, after winning his first monogram at center, was shifted to end during Spring practice. He has since made himself noted for his pass snatching and rugged line play. Hunter was lost to the Irish for a while at the beginning of the season due to an ankle injury. 
JOE BUSH, offensive right tackle, is majoring in political science. Joe was bothered all season with a shoulder injury. One of his outstanding plays this year was in the Purdue game when he recovered a fumble for a TD, the once-in-a-lifetime thrill for a lineman. 
Tom Murphy 

FRANK VARRICHIONE, an education major in the College of Arts and Letters, was switched from offensive guard to offen­sive tackle at the outset of the season and has been a regular at the tackle post since. His spirited blocking paved the way for the second-half comeback against Oklahoma. 
Frank Varrichione 
FRED POEHLER, a pre med. major in the College of Science, alternated at offensive right and left tackle, though an injured back disc before the season limited his starting assignments. Fred is one of the few ser\'ice veterans on the squad, having served in the Air Force. 
BOB TAYLOR, normally a defensive tackle, got in at guard 
in the victory over Iowa. Rated second in the state of Illinois 
in high school wrestling in his junior year, he was also named 
Bob Taylor to several all-state grid squads. Fred Poehler 
The Scholastic 

VIRGIL BARDASH, a 22 -year-old senior majoring in business administration, was an alternating guard and tackle on the Irish eleven. After graduation and a hitch in the Air Force, he hopes either to play pro ball or attend law school. 
Tom Seaman 

TOM SEAMAN, senior Commerce man, has played nearly every minute for the Irish this fall at the offensive left guard spot. In the 27-21 upset over Oklahoma, Tom played the entire 36 
Virgil Bardash 

minutes on offense. He is considered by most as the best block­ing lineman on the squad. 
PAUL ROBST, a reserve guard from St. George High School in Chicago, saw little action this fall, but provided much of that famous Fighting Irish spirit with his all-around hustle. A junior, Robst is a chemJstry major in the College of Science. 
MENIL MAVRAIDES, shifted from end to offensive guard and defensive tackle on the right side of the line at the beginning of the season, shared the PAT and field-goal kicking job with Bob Arrix. "Minnie" is earning his second monogram this year. He's majoring in political science. 
Paul Robst 
Menil Mavroides 
QUCAJU 
QeniefiA 

JIM SCHRADER, the first string Irish center, played practically every minute the Irish had the ball this season. A steady per­former and a dependable blocker, Jim cleared the way for many of Lattner and Warden's power bucks. The stiirdy Pennsyl­vanian is a domestic marketing major in the College of Com­merce. 
Art Nowack 

ART NOWACK, a second-string center and linebacker, attended 
Aquinas Institute in Rochester, N. Y., a school which has pro­
duced many Irish grid stars. Art is one of the famous LIFE 
magazine color photo subjects. A physical Education major. . L 
Art hopes to make a career of coaching. 
Jim Schrader 

Dec. 5, 1952 31 
0ilfiH4e, 
RALPH GUGLIELMI, the air-minded quarterback of the Irish, shared the backfield brain-trust with Tom Carey. Ralph tossed four touchdown passes this season, the most important coming in the closing minutes of the first half against Purdue. When "Goog" isn't throwing a football, he's studying to become a dentist 
TOM CAREY, the diminutive quarterback, shared the starting role with Ralph Guglielmi, Tom showed himself a brilliant play-caller and accounted for valuable yardage as a runner as well as a passer. Against Oklahoma he scored the winning touchdown and also completed five out of five passes. 
Ralph Guglielmi Tom Carey 
BOB MARTIN, reserve quarterback, is a southpaw. Bob, who is a sociology major, calls getting into his first college game this year his greatest thrill. In that game, which was against North Carolina, he demonstrated his passing abilities by throw­ing a 30-yard pass to Don Penza. 
ED BUCZKIEWICZ, a senior reserve quarterback, earned seven letters in basketball and football at Weber High in Chicago. Ed's major is political science, and after his graduation in June, he hopes to get a job in the Illinois Department of State. 
Ed Buczkiewicz 

JtallfLacJu 
John. Lattner 

JOHN LATTNER, one of the few men on the team to play the entire 60 minutes in any game, held down the right-halfback slot on both platoons and handled almost all the punting chores. John's all-around prowess includes passing and fine defensive work, too. 
Toe Heap Frank Paterra 
JOE HEAP, first-string offensive left halfback, developed into FRAN PATERRA, an Arts and Letters junior, saw considerable the pony of the Irish backfield. Heap utilized his great speed action at halfback. A threat both on the ground and in the to lead the team in pass receptions, but is most remembered for air, he illustrated this to best advantage in the North Carolina his dramatic punt returns of 92 and 84 yards against Pitt and game by picking up big chunks of yardage both ways. Fran North Carolina. Heap also passed for valuable yardage. led the Irish backs in rushing against Southern Cal. 
The Scholastic 
Oj^^enU 

BOB JOSEPH, a junior halfback, is also the number-one holder BOB KIGALI, reserve offensive right halfback is enrolled in the for Bob Arrix's attempts for points after touchdowns and field College of Commerce. Bob didn't play much this year, partly goals. Bob is a physical education major and hopes some day due to a shoulder injury, but he is still a mighty fancy-stepping to become a successful coach. ball carrier who is known for his fight and spirit. 
W^^^S^!1 
Bob Joseph Bob Rigali 
Lee Getschow Rockne Morrissey 

ROCKNE MORRISSEY, majoring in civil engineering, got a LEE GETSCHOW, a physical education major, doubles as a brief chance to play in the North Carolina game. Although defensive and offensive halfback. Fishing, hunting and skiing Rock didn't see much game action this year, the diminutive take up a good part of his time when he isn't playing football. defensive halfback is a real hustler. He played two years at A junior, Lee will ser\'e a hitch in the Air Force after gradua­
Purcell High in Cincinnati. tion. 
TOM McHUGH, who played fullback when Worden didn't, was NEIL WORDEN, the Irish ace fullback, is a physical education also a member of the punting and kick-off teams because of his major. He surpassed his scoring pace of last year and finished defensive prowess. His offensive play was bruising too. In the well ahead of the other backs. Neil played an important part North Carolina game he came away with scoring honors in the in Notre Dame's upset of Oklahoma 27-21, scoring two of the third period. Tom is a physical education major. Irish's hard-earned touchdowns. 
S«5Si 

BOB ARRIX, a reserve fullback, served as Notre Dame's kicker starting with the North Carolina game. The compact New Jersey lad also contributed two field goals, both of which gave the Irish early leads against Navy and Michigan State. Bob iced the USC game with this third three-pointer. 
Tom McHugh NeU Worden 
Bob Aiiix 

Dec. 5, 1952 
BOB O'NEIL, number-one defensive end, was particularly noted for his breaking up of interference and hard smashing tackles. 
3>e^eH4e 
Bob is a Commerce senior majoring in Business Administration. 
Although Bob will go immediately into the Air Force upon graduation, he is still undecided on his future career. 
FRED MANGIALARDI, defensive left end was hampered all season with a knee injury. He will be remembered for recover­ing a Penn fumble which stopped one of their big scoring threats. Fred is an economics major and a member of the cam­pus NROTC unit. 
Bob Olfeil 
Paul Mcrtz 

PAUL MATZ, first string defensive left end, developed into a 
fine performer this season under the tutelage of End Coach Fred Mangialardi 
Johnny Druze. Matz teamed up with right flanker Bob O'Neil to constantly harass the opposition's passer. The former Mt. Carmel High School star is a sophomore in Aero Engineering. 
WALT CABRAL, a major in physical education, alternated at 
CndA 
both offensive and defensive end this season. A dislocated back vertebrae before the season started and an infected foot before the Texas game slowed him down considerably. Walt comes 
^GcAJel 
all the way from Hawaii. 
SAM PALUMBO, first-string left tackle in the defensive line, is a business administration major. Highly rated by the press for his outstanding work all season, Sam was instrumental in smashing the Texas ground game and spent most of the MSC game in the State backfield. 
BOB READY, first-string defensive tackle this season, is in the College of Arts and Letters. A standout in the line all year, he was particularly troublesome to Texas and Michigan State. An ankle injury against Navy confined his action against the Middies. 
Sam Pcdumbo 

Bob Ready 
TONY PASQUESI, second-string defensive right tackle, is a marketing major in the College of Commerce. Tony came into his own against North Carolina and saw considerable action thereafter. Tony considers beating the Sooners his biggest thrill. Tony Posquesi 
The Scholastic 

JIM WEITHMAN, senior phy. ed. major, foresees two years' service as a Marine platoon leader upon graduation. Second-
JbejfiHie

string middle-guard in the defensive line, Jim has been used 
mainly at the all-important right end position on the extra-point nine-man line. 
JACK LEE, middle-guard on defense, was chosen Lineman of the Week in the mid-west after his outstanding play in the Purdue game in which he recovered two key fumbles, and blocked a punt. He played practically every minute on defense. Jack is in the College of Arts and Letters. • 
Jim Weithman 

DAVE FLOOD, right-side linebacker, has a great ability for diagnosing plays. He was lost to the Irish for the season after suflFering a broken collarbone in the Michigan State clash. A senior majoring in physical education. Flood would like to coach after football. 
MiddU-Qua%d 
Dave Flood 
Annando Galardo 

ARMANDO GALARDO, better known as "Army," is a junior enrolled in the College of Commerce and is majoring in account­ing, which he considers his favorite course. A halfback, he has also shown himself a defensive player, intercepting three passes in last year's Old Timers Game. 
Dan Shannon 
DAN SHANNON, outstanding as first-string linebacker this season, gained recognition as the hardest tackier on the Irish squad. His stadium-shaking tackle of Oklahoma's Larry Grigg caused the Sooner back to fumble and set up the winning ND touchdown. Dan is enrolled in the College of Commerce. 
i 

DICK FRASOR, substitute offensive center and defensive line­backer, saw quite a bit of service in the Michigan State and Iowa games. Sophomore Frasor is another of the Notre Damers coached by former Irish great Terry Brennan at Mt. Carmel High in Chicago. He is enrolled in the College of Engineering. 
DICK SZYMANSKI, another defensive stalwart, held down 
Dick Eraser the right side of the crackerjack ND linebacking trio. Dick was particularly outstanding in the Purdue and Navy games. Against the middies, he intercepted two passes and was a main cog in stopping the Navy offense cold. Dick is a Commerce student. Dick Sxjrmanski 
Dec. 5, 1952 
JACK (JUNIOR) STEPHENS, who switched from the basket­ball court to the football field, furnished enough talent to help 
jb^enAe^ 
the Irish pass defense in both the Purdue and North Carolina 
games. Stephens set up the first Irish score against the Boiler­makers with a game-opening, ball-jan-ing tackle of halfback Rex Block. 
DON BUCCI, s substitute quarterback and third-string defensive backfield man, played against the Hawkeycs. An accounting major in the College of Commerce, he captained both the foot­ball and basketball squads in high school. 
JACK WHELAN, a 21-year-old senior majoring in business administration, played first-string defensive halfback. Among his feats was an interception of a Texas pass on the N.D. 15. He will also be remembered for stopping Joe Varatis from several TD runs in the Penn game. Upon graduation Jack will enter the Air Force. 
Jim Whelan 

AL KOHANOMTCH, a 22-year-old senior majoring in physical education, alternated at defensive halfback and right end, re­covering the key fumble in the Oklahoma game which set up our winning tally. He was also ojie of N.D.'s kick-off specialists. Al will enter the Marines after graduation. 
JfcuHt<icJu 
Sa^etif Me*i 
Al Kohanowich 
PAUL REYNOLDS, as a safety man on both the offensive and defensive platoons, developed into one of the most versatile men on the squad. Besides excelling in batting down passes and re­turning punts, Paul also did the kicking behind John Lattner. In the Te-xas contest he had his line drive punt fumbled, setting up the second Irish score.. 
Gene Carrabine 
•..™ 

GENE CARRABINE, a member of the College of Commerce, was first-string safetyinan until leg injuries against Purdue cur­tailed his activity and forced him to miss the Oklahoma game. Gene's desparation tackle of a Penn receiver just three yards short of paydirt undoubtedly saved that tussle. 
Paul Reynolds 

JIM BIGELOW, reserve quarterback and punter, saw action in both the Michigan State and Iowa games. Against the Spartans he got off a nice long punt in the first quarter when he replaced John Lattner. Bigelow is a sophomore in the College of Arts 
Piudefi, lim Bigelow and Letters and plans to major in journalism. 
Zhe Coaches 
A football team's success is determined largely by the men who mold it . . . who instruct its members in the fundamentals of the game . . . men who themselves were noted stars in their playing days . . . who possess a storehouse of experience with which to impart knowledge to their more youthful counterparts. .. . Of the eight-man ND staff, si.x are Notre Dame alumni , . . the other two, graduates of Fordham, where they played under Line Coach Leahy . . . following him to Boston College, then to Notre Dame. . . . All eight of them, well-versed in the strategy and tactics of the game . . . great coaches . . . Chris­tian gentlemen . . . family men . . . Notre Dame men. 
HEAD COACH FRANK LEAHY masterminds the Irish football 
machine both on and off the field. On Saturday afternoons his 
sideline histrionics often rival the performances of the teams on 
the field as he frets, fumes, and paces nervously up and down 
in front of the bench when the Irish are in a tough spot, poinis 
out errors and outlines strategy to the substitutes, then beams 
benevolently as "the lads" wrap up another ball game. 
But Leahy's work isn't limited to the Saturday afternoon 
performances in the stadium. His week includes watching 
movies of next Saturday's opponents in action, analyzing the play, 
and with his assistant coaches mapping strategy to fit the various 
strengths and weaknesses of the two teams. Leahy oversees the 
practices during the week, correcting mistakes, instructing the 
individual players, and keeping the entire team in top condition. 
Besides this he spends hours in his office working out new plays, 
being inter\'iewed by the press, and doing the paper work required of a modem football coach. 
December 5, 1952 
TACKLE COACH BOB McBRIDE, besides his regular coach­ing duties at practice, mans the phone connected with pressbox and score-board during Irish games, gathering information about both teams' strength and weaknesses and passing it on to Coach Leahy. McBride joined the Notre Dame coaching staff in 1949. 
END COACH JOHN DRUZE, seldom sees side of practice—^he spends his Saturdays season in the pressboxes at other games, ponents. A former proball player, Druze 
lohn Druze 
 the Irish play out­ during the football  scouting future op­ also captained the 
famed "Seven Blocks of Granite" during his undergraduate days at Fordham. 
CENTER COACH WALLY ZIEMBA, like Druze, scouts for the Irish on Saturday afternoons. Ziemba began his football career as a monogram-winning tackle but later switched to center where he won All-American honors in 1941. He joined the coaching staff after ser\'ice in the Marines during World ^Var II. 
Wally Ziemba 

BUI Earley 
BACKFIELD COACH JOHNNY LUJACK, spends Saturday afternoons in the pressbox, watching for weaknesses in the Irish offense. New to the coaching staff this year, Lujack was an All-American quarterback on the 1946 and '47 Notre Dame teams and spent four years playing pro ball with the Chicago Bears before returning to coach the Irish backs. 
Bob McBride 
Joe McArdle 

GUARD COACH JOE McARDLE, distinguished himself this season when he substituted for Coach Leahy at the Iowa game, spurring the Irish to a 27-0 victory. His regular station during home games is the scoreboard, where he watches the spacing of the team on the field. At games away from home, he keeps an eye on ND defense from the press box. 
BACKFIELD COACH BILL EARLY, has the job of keeping substitutes ready for action on the sidelines during the Notre Dame games. A former Irish star. Early began his coaching activities here as mentor of the B squad in 1945. A noted line­backer and breakaway runner in his college days, he took over the varsity backfield in '47. 
John Lujack 

VOLUNTEER COACH FRED MILLER — divides his time between his job as president of the Miller High Life Brewing Co. and the Miller Lumber Co. of Milwaukee and his voluntary post as assistant to Coach Leahy. A three-monogram man during his student days. Miller received his training under the immortal Rockne.  Fred MBUer  
3S  The Scholastic  

DIRECTOR OF ATHLETICS ED. "MOOSE" KRAUSE graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 following a brilliant ath­letic career. A talented gridder and three-time basketball AU-American, Krause undertook a coaching stint at St. Mary's College in Winona, Minn., and then moved to Holy Cross, where he served as Crusader line coach. In 1942, he was brought back to Notre Dame as a line coach, and that wnter, after the death of George Keogan, the basketball coach, Krause was appointed to fill that vacancy. Krause continued to tutor Irish basketball squads until his appointment as Director of Athletics was an­nounced in the Spring of 1949. 
As Director of .\thletics, the whole athletic program at Notre Dame is under Krause's supervision. Besides arranging Irish football, basketball, and track schedules, Krause's services as Notre Dame's representative at NC.'^.A meetings and conventions and as speaker for the numerous banquets and quarter-back club dinners held throughout the nation have been of inestimable-value. 
EUGENE PASZKIET, Head Trainer, graduated from Notre Dame in 1950 and was appointed last Spring to replace former trainer Hugh Bums. First on the field when injuries occur, Paszkiet's skillful treatments have enabled inany key players to remain in this year's thin Irish ranks. 
behind the Scenes 
Yet, a football team could not operate without the men behind the scenes . . . the unsung heroes who devote their careers to carrying out the countless details that arise prepara­tory to the Big Game. From the director of athletics who first schedules the contest on down to the trainer who cares for the sprains and bruises after the smoke of battle has lifted from the field .. . all of them, as much a part of victory as the half­back who ran 50 yards for the winning touchdown . . . im­portant cogs in a dynamic, efficient organization . . . and a winning one. 
Student Managers ROBERT MILLENBACH, EMORY DA­KOSKE, and JOHN STOELLER were, in the words of Capt. Jack Alessandrini, the "big brothers" of the 1952 Fighting Irish. Working under the supervision of Jack McAllister, the managers cared for and distributed equipment and assisted players in following trip itineraries. They were aided in their chores by 
Bob Millenbach many underclass members of the Manager's Association. 
Gene Paszldet 

Tack McJUIister  
Emory  Dakoske  John  Stoeller  JACK MCALLISTER , Equipment Superintendent, has been buying, fitting, issuing, and maintaining uniforms and equipment at Notre Dame since 1931. Aided by the student managers, "Mac" is responsible for the complete outfitting of the Irish— whether at home or away.  
December 5, 1952  39  

T
HE athletic director, the trainer, 
and the student managers are the 

"front men" of the extensive and in­
tricate* behind-the-scenes organization 
necessax-y to develop a football Satur­
day to precision smoothness. Never 
seen by and almost unkno^\^l to the 
majority of the fans are the men off 
stage entrusted A\'ith the task of 
making everyone happ y with the 
week's-end gridiron matinee. 
At Notre Dame this task falls chiefly 

upon the ingenuity and experience of 
four men. Herbert E. Jones acts as 
.business manager. To see that Notre 
Dame always gets top billing; there's 
Charles Callahan, director of sports 
publicity. The distribution of tickets 
is capably handled by M. Robert 
Cahill, while the indispensable Joseph 
Dierickx rounds out the foursome as 
custodian of the stadium. 
Handling a crowd as large as the one 

that floods South Betid on the Saturday 
of a home game entails extensive, 
almost endless arranging. Hei'b Jones 
lias a staff of over 2,000 who serve as 
parking lot attendants, ushers, venders, 
ticket takers, and the' like. The welfare 
of the football fan is his prime concern. 
When the team takes to the road, Her^b arranges for their transportation, accommodations and meals, as well as the many other details that arise. In addition, he orders all athletic equip­
ment, takes care of all expenses that the team might incur, and handles all athletic accounts. 
As director of sports publicity, 
Maura Mills and Bill Londo (standing) 

Charlie Callahan sees to it that every Notre Dame fan will get more' than his share of pre-season "inside dope." 
During the season he supplies lead­ing publications with the information that breeds heroes and briefs the" world on football as played by Notre Dame. 
 assist Sports Publicist Charlie Callahan. 
The Notre Dame pressbox, rated as one of the best in the country, also comes under the' Callahan jurisdiction. Over 300 sportswriters, announcers, technicians and television men must be supplied with all the materials neces­sary for their job. 
But that's not the end of the job for the' publicity department. Every year thousands of letters are received requesting pictures, autographs, sta­tistics from the past, and game strategy and explanations of various plays. All are answered. 
Another of the office's in Breen-Phillips Hall is the headquarters of Ticket Manager Bob Cahill. 
Early each summer Bob is faced with the problem of distributing some 500,­000 tickets to eager football fans all over the country. This task is all the hardei- since there are seldom enough tickets to fill the huge demand. 
Bob, who needs a staff of 14, begins his job early in July by mailing ap­plications to the seasonal box holders, alumni, and students and their parents. 
Joe Dierickx is the final member of this production crew. As custodian of the stadium, he has been painting rail­ings and seats, cleaning the stands, re-sodding turf, and maneuvering tar­paulins on and off the playing field for 20-odd years. 

Joe' cares for and trains the Irish mascots, Shanon View Mike and Pat. Although the fans may never see these four men, they would also never 
Business Manager Herb Jones (left) charts an Irish trip with assistant Len Kahler. see an ND home game without them. 
The Scholastic 

Zhe ^reshmeHi 
Roeks That Sharpen The Varsity's Attack 
Dick Cotter 

During the past two months, while the Irish varsity was churning through seven of its ten opponents, a trio of former Notre Dame stars in the person of Dick Cotter, Bill Gaudreau, and Bob Lally have been tutoring a huge batch of freshmen whom they expect will help form a championship Irish squad in the near future. 
Leading the parade of tmorrow's stars at tackle is 6-foot, 220-pound Al Barlow; 225-pound Gene Martell from Pennsylvania; 6-foot 3-inch John Ke­galy, a 215-pounder from St. Ignatius High in Chicago; Bob Lasch, another 6-3, 215-pound tackle from Pennsyl­vania; and Pat Nakfoor, a 6-foot 5-inch giant from Lansing. 
Holding down the commanding berths at the guard slots are Ray Lemek, a 6-1, 207-pounder from Sioux City, Iowa, and Tom Giek, 6-foot 204-pounder from Crystal Lake, 111. Tagging right along with these two is George Nicula, 210 pounds, from Warren, Ohio, and Jerry Culbertson, 192 pounds, from Interna­tional Falls, Minn. 
Moying to the center of the frosh line we find Jim Mense, a 6-foot 205­pounder from Hamilton, Ohio, who is considered one of the finest prospects on the field. Following Mense is 225­pound Bernie Giacalone from New York City and Jack Mulcahy from Columbus. 
Filling out the end positions on the squad with just as much depth as the rest of the line we begin with Gene Kapish, the 6-foot 2-inch 200-pound brother of former ND monogram win­ner Bob Kapish. Gene is a fine pass receiver and blocker, . . . when he is teamed up with Pennsylvania's Wajme Edmonds, you couldn't find a faster combination on the field. Other very capable and promising pass receivers are Don George, a 6-foot 4-inch 205­pounder from Dunbar, Pa.; Gene Smes­saert. South Bend's gift to the team; Jack Dumas, a 6-3, 195-pounder from Grand Eapids, Mich.; and ex-marine Bob Hennelly from St. Phillip's High in Chicago. 
For the all-important quarterback spot on the squad Don Schaefer, a 5-il, 190 passing whiz from Pittsburgh; Jim Ramm, another good passer from YoungstowTi, Ohio; and Art Rohack, a 5-11, 175-pounder from Philadelphia, fought it out. 
Running from the halfback slots were six potential Irish stars, led by John Gaffney and Dick Fitzgerald, a pair of Chicago rockets. Four other top-rank­ing performers are Dick Keller, a slick 180-pounder from Toledo; Dick Wash-
b Lolly 
T H E 

C  '•• ::";^^K!^W­ 
O  
A  
C  
H  
E  ^^^^^^^B  JtKIa ^ 1  
S  Bill Gaudreau  

ington, a fast, shifty scat-back from Pennsylvania; and George Wilson and Dick Hendricks, another darting duo. 
In the defensive halfback positions were a pair of hustling 170-pound twins, Dan and Dave McNamara, while Chicago's Benny Zajeski, a 6-foot, 3­inch Mt. Carmel product, anchored down the middle of the outer wall-
The fullback slot was manned by either Nick Raich, 5-10, 175-pounder from Milwaukee, or John Armerod, a strong runner and passer from Provi­dence, R. I. Fitzgerald and Zajeski also ran out of the fullback spot, to exem­plify the all-around strength shown by this year's freshman squad. 
•^ .-v=a 
-i^^** " ^ > 

December 5, 1952 
-

\r< -j—i:ix il t "/'-^ 
•-.,•­

}•••' j.'ik 
!^^Sdi "MM^>-H-jl i « 1 sa­'1-^H • ;-' ^-" ~r.lfl|k ^^^H' '* j^4l^H^L»L.^ 
. llB 
LEFT: Band in position for traditional gome-opening ceremonies. RIGHT: Colorful Irish Pipers, a recent innovation. 
Mnsie-Makers and Thunder-Shakers 
Crowd-pleasing performances are not limited to the teams that duel in Notre Dame stadium four times each Fall. Pre-game and half-time color are im­portant, too. Without them, some of the 56,000 patrons of Notre Dame sta­dium could well be disappointed on a Saturday afternoon. 
The Notre Dame music-makers have been crowd-please"rs. Four times a year they pour out, 108 strong, from the north ramp of the stadium. Led by five cart-wheeling cheerleaders, Irish mas­cots Shannon View Mike and Pat, and Drum Major Jerry Gatto, they fan-out, lialt, reform and salute the thousands with a stirring fanfare and a huge HELLO. Then, with their introduction completed, they return to the sidelines to await the half-time performance. 
This years Notre Dame Marching Eand, directed by Robert F. O'Brien, drilled consistently to turn out five half-time shows. Practice was held two hours an afternoon, five days a week—sometimes under the' floodlights 
of Cartier Field. At the Pittsburgh game a complete Irish show was pre­sented. An election theme was carried out for the North Carolina game, and 
By BOB HAINE 

the Oklahoma game found the band saluting the Sooner State with excerpts from the score of the musical Oklor­homa. In Cleveland, site of the 1952 student trip, the band enlarged their election theme to full half-time propor­tions in an effort to aid the "get out the vote" campaign aimed at the 62,000 that viewed the Notre Dame-Navy skirmish in Cleveland's Municipal Sta­dium. The band concluded their sea­son at the Southern California game by giving a musical interpretation of the seasons of the year and, as an added feature, paying tribute to Stude­baker's 100th anniversary. 
A recent innovation has been the "Fighting Irish Pipers," a kilted group of eight who appear with the band at all stadium performances. Trained by Mr. Louis Snedden, a native of Scot­land who played the pipes extensively in the British Isles, the group has been a colorful addition to half-time pro­ceedings at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Like the band, the thundershakers. 

cheerleaders if you prefer, play their part in the Fall pattern of stadium color. During the season they control the cheers and rousing chants of the students in the stands—^and controlling an excited or bored student body is no easy task in either instance. 
At Notre Dame, cheerleaders are selected by competitive tryouts held before the season begins. The "chosen five" practice an average of six hours a week to perfect their various cheers and tumbling techniques—^the latter be­ing their sideline specialty. Leading pep rallies plus taking Shannon View Mike and Pat through their paces on the ND sideline are more responsibili­ties that tend to make the cheerleaders Notre Dame's "busiest five." Upon graduation they are awarded a ND monogram, a token of appreciation for their services. 
When the season has been completed, interests of the Notre Dame band and the cheerleaders turn elsewhere. The band concerns itself with its concert season—^this year a 3000 mile tour reaching the southern extremities of Florida. The cheerleaders—^well, bas­ketball season is another thing. 
Irish cheerleaders Hannan, Keegan, O'Leary, Kruse, and Vasconcelies limber up for a busy season along the sidelines. 
The Scholastic 

of the 1952 Fighting Irish 
NO. NAME POS. AGE HT. \VT. HOMETOWN HIGH SCHOOL CLASS 
2  *Carey,  Thomas  F  QB  19  5-10  175  Chicago,  III  Mt.  Carmel  _  ­  So.  
3  *GuglieImi,  Ralph  W.  QB  19  6-0  180  Columbus,  Ohio  Grandview  _  So.  
4  Bucci,  Donald  QB  19  6-0  180  Youngstown,  Ohio  East  _  _  So.  
6  Martin,  Robert  L. ..  QB  20  6-2  185  Davenport,  Iowa  St.  .Ambrose  ._  Jr.  
7  Buczkiewicz,  Edward  QB  21  6-0  177  Chicago,  111  „Weber  _  Sr.  
8  Bigelow,  James  QB  18  5-11  170  Glenshaw,  Pa  Shaler  _..  _  _  So.  
9  Galvin,  Patrick  J  QB  18  6-0  185  Detroit,  Mich  ^Catholic  Central  So.  
10  *Paterra,  Francis  F  HB  20  5-11  190  McKeesport,  Pa  .Tech  „  Jr­ 
14  *Lattner,  John  J  HB  19  6-1  190  Chicago,  111. ._  Fenwick  Jr.  
15  Callaghan,  Leo  P  HB  19  6-1  185  Passaic,  N. J. _  .Pope Pius XII  ...  So.  
16  Morrissey,  Rockne  J. .  HB  20  5-9  165  Cincinnati,  Ohio  Purcell  Jr.  
17  *Whelan,  Jack  D  HB  21  5-11  180  Miami,  Fla  _Miami  Sr.  
18  •Reynolds,  Paul  R  HB  19  6-0  180  Springfield,  III  -..Cathedral  ._  _..  So.  
19  Getschow,  Lee  E  HB  20  6-0  175  Kenilworth,  111.  New  Trier  Sr.  
20  *Carrab!ne,  Eugene  P.  HB  19  6-1  178  Gary,  Ind.  Emerson  ,  So.  
24  Joseph,  Robert  HB  21  5-9  165  Martins  Ferry,  Ohio  Martins  Ferry  Jr.  
28  Sama,  Edward  _  HB  22  5-11  175  South  River, N.  J  _South  River  Jr.  
29  Galardo,  Armando  HB  20  5-10  170  Watertown,  N. Y  .^Immaculate  Heart  Jr.  
30  McHugh,  Thomas  F. .  FB  20  6-1  190  Toledo,  Ohio  Central  Catholic  ._  Jr.  
32  ••Flood,  David  HB  24  5-10  185  Pittsburgh,  Pa  _  Langley  —  _.  Sr.  
33  •Shannon,  Daniel  J  FB  19  6-0  190  Chicago,  111  Mt.  Carmel  So.  
42  •Heap, Joseph  L  HB  20  5-11  175  Covington,  La  „  _Holy  Cross  (New  Orleans)  So.  
44  Arrix,  Robert  J  FB  19  5-10  188  Teaneck,  N. J  Peddie  (Highstown)  So.  
45  Rigali,  Robert  J  HB  20  5-8  172  Oak  Park,  III  Fenwick  _  Jr.  
48  •Worden,  Neil  FB  21  5-11  185  Milwaukee,  Wis  Pulaski  Jr.  
49  Stephens,  Jack  HB  19  6-2  190  Chicago,  III  Mt.  Carmel  .._.  .  So.  
52  •Szymanski,  Richard  F.  C  19  6-2  210  Toledo,  Ohio  Libbey  .  So.  
53  •Schrader,  James  L  C  20  6-2  206  Carnegie,  Pa  Scott  Twp  ..  Jr.  
54  Nowack,  Arthur  C  C  21  6-1  208  Rochester,  N. Y  Aquinas  Inst. ...  „  Jr.  
56  Cook, Edward J  C  19  6-1  210  Philadelphia,  Pa.  S.  E.  Cathoh'c  ..  So.  
60  •Varrichione,  Frank  ...  T-G  20  6-0  207  Natick,  Mass  Natick  _  So.  
62  •Seaman,  Thomas  J. ...  G  22  5-11  198  Canton,  Ohio  Lincoln  ..  Sr.  
63  Frasor,  Richard  G-C  19  5-11  190  Blue  Island,  III.  _  „_Mt.  Carmel  .  So.  
65  •Lee,  Jack  G  20  5-11  190  Medford,  Mass.  Maiden  Catholic  .  So.  
66  Robst,  Paul  K.  —  G  20  5-11  195  Chicago,  III  St.  George  _  Jr.  
67  •Palumbo,  Samuel  G  20  6-0  195  Cleveland,  Ohio  CoUinwood  .  So.  
68  •Alessandrini,  Jack  (c)  G  21  5-11  197  Charleston,  W. Va  Catholic  .  Sr.  
69  •Bardash,  Virgil  G-T  22  6-0  206  Gary,  Ind.  Horace  Mann  _...  .  Sr.  
70  ••Kelly,  Robert  J  T  21  6-2  203  Duiuth,  Minn.  Catholic  .  Sr.  
71  Taylor,  Robert  H  T  20  6-2  200  Pekin, lU.  Pekin  So.  
73  *Bush,  Joseph  R  _...  T  20  6-3  206  Oak  Park,  III.  St.  Ambrose  (Davenport,  la.)  Jr.  
74  •Ready,  Robert  T  20  6-3  208  Lowell,  Mass.  Lowell  .-.  So.  
75  Pasquesi,  Anthony  L. _  T  19  6-4  212  Chicago,  111.  ;._St.  Philip  So.  
76  •Poehler,  Frederick  T  22  6-4  210  Jackson,  Mich.  Jackson  Jr.  
78  ••Murphy,  Thomas  F  T  22  6-1  210  Chicago,  III  St.  George  Sr.  
79  §Weithman,  James  C.  T  22  6-0  190  Bucyrus, Ohio  Bucyrus  Sr.  
80  •Hunter,  Arthur  E  19  6-3  221  Akron,  Ohio  St.  Vincent  Jr.  
81  Kohanowich,  Albert  ....  E  22  6-1  189  Hempstead,  N. • Y  Hempstead  Sr.  
82  •O'Neil,  Robert  E  21  6-2  195  Bridgeville,  Pa  Lincoln  Sr­ 
83  •Penza,  Donald  E  20  6-1  200  Kenosha,  Wis  St.  Catherine  (Racine)  Jr.  
85  •Mavraides,  Menil  G  19  6-1  205  Lowell,  Mass  Lowell  Jr­ 
86  •Mangialardi,  Fred  E  19  6-1  195  Chicago,  III.  St.  PhiUp  Jr.  
88  •Cabral,  Walter  K  E  20  6-3  205  Honolulu,  Hawaii  -St.  Louis  So.  
90  Matz, Paul A  E  19  6-1  191  Chicago,  111.  _Mt.  Carmel  So.  

' Denotes Monograms Won. S Weitbman (79)received a monogram in 1950 but not 1951. 
Dec. 5, 1952 
Tweed takes the lead in Fall '52 Topper styling and you'll marvel at the colorful, wonderful Hunting Ridge 
and Import tweeds we're showing in big favor, Big Sweep Raglan Toppers. 
«55 «60 
Diamonds Jewelry Watches 
J. Trethewey 
JOE, THE JEWELER 
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. BIdg. 
For 
HEALTH 
Men SPOT 
Women SHOES Children 
Paul Whalen, Mgr. 
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE 
FRANKIE LANE 
made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes. 
Spaghetti Ravioli 
Chicken Steaks 
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . . 
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 biks. N. of South Shore Station 
Continuous Quality Continuous Price 
•omm uNsn witiieiirt o» n i cook^coiA cOMrun n 

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Michigan at Washington 3-1104 
OF SOUTH BEND 
The Scholastic 
bui canh diQ up a iAJorthvuMe 
just... 

When youVe qot some time to make.. 
giVe (jourseH-a 
Next time you make a date... 
make it a date for coffee! You'll have more fun over a cheerful cup—it's the lift that puts life into every crowd! Wherever you go —whoever you take — give yourself a coffee-break! 
Pan-American Coffee Bureau, 120 Wall St., New YorkS, N. Y. Brazil • Colombia • Costa Rica Cuba • Dominican Republic Ecuador • El Salvador Guatemala * Honduras Mexico • Venezuela emi 
Your Trip Home Is 
ININEBAG BY1RAIN! 
NO WEATHER OR TRAFFIC 
delays to make you miss hohdates . . . when you go home by safe, dependable train. It's a headstart on vacation fun, traveling with firiends .. . in roomy comfort with swell dining car. meals! 
IT'S A GIFT! If you and two friends go home and return to­gether . . . Group Coach Plan tickets save you each up to 25% of the regular round-trip coach fares. Or a group of 25 or more can each save up to 28%! Head home in the same direction at the same time. After the holidays, return separately if you wish on this larger Group Coach Plan. 
EASTERN RAILROADS 

Dec. 5, 1952 
Christmas back to Christmas* Giver 
God's  gift  on  Christmas  was  Your Christmas gift  will truly  
the  eternal gift  of  His  Own  commemorate this event if you  
Divine  Son  to  mankind  . . .  give a fitting Christian gift.. .  

give books by men of the spirit . . . devoted to things of the spirit, this Christmas. 
CONCERNING MARY ANN 
By Rev. Leo R. Wdrd, C.S.C. 
A real and penetrating ac­count of the actual experi­ences of Mary Ann and the hardy Irish who settled in Iowa. Father Ward has built this saga upon a finely out­lined value scheme. A book full of humor and meaning. 
non-fiction $2.75 

AVE AAARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 
I am enclosing $ 
Brother Andre of Mount Royal 
By Katherine Burton 
The story of Brother Andre of Mount Royal unfolds itself as a symbol of the living Faith of men of God. His faith, his simplicity in virtue are, in mini­ature, an expression of the highest aims and values of the whole of mankind. The author has ably portrayed this man of God as one attractive to all men who see something of Christ in themselves. 
biography $2.50 
THE WISDOM OF SORROW 
By Ricardo Leon 

The Cross, God's gift to all of us, is the sublime theme of this novel. Blind Don Fer­nando Villalaz found his cross when he found his sight, and he found wisdom too, in the sorrow he experienced in the shadow of his cross. 
fiction $3.50 

 Please send: ) BROTHER ANDRE of MOUNT ROYAL 
(  ) CONCERNING NiARY ANN  ) THE WISDOM OF SORROW  
Name  
Street  
City  ..  State  

Fish, Steaks, Chops 

WMf ABOUT 
VWRDHINClNe? 
Is H old fashioned? Do you tack confidence,. Are you sure of Uie steps? 
Don't spoil your holiday... come to Arthur Murray's and be sure of popularity 
• Don't waste another day. Come into the studio today and get your dancing polished up for holiday-time. Learning to dance the Arthur Murray Way is fun and easy. Even a beginner can go dancing after one lesson. So act now... being a good dancer will guarantee you fun and good times. 
ARTHUR MURRAY 
120 E. Wayne 2-3339 
and Chicken 
At Prices You Will Appreciate 
Our Speciolty 
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls 
$1.20 
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT 
"Chicken in the Rough" 
213 N. Main Open Sunday 

^DLLITT fOMSTMCTIBH fO-MC. 
OENERAL COHTRACTORS 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Dec. 5, 1952 
Italian Home Cooking 
Five Minutes from the Campus 
• PIZZA • SPAGHEHI 
Every day but Sunday 

* CHICKEN a la cacciatore 
Saturday Only 

|; You're always welcome at ... , 
1 ROCCO'S 
I 537 N. St. Louis On the Bus Line. 
SHOES NEED FIXING? 
Why Go Dorfntonrn? 
© BETTER SERVICE 
•
 BETTER WORK 

•
 LOWER COST 


PAUL'S SHOE SHOP 
Behind Main Bldg. 

The Courtesy Barber Shop thanks you men from Notre Dame for your patronage. 
COURTESY BARBER SHOP 
112 E. Washington Under Max Adier 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Welcome to 
128 W. WASHINGTON 
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT 

All Mokes—Large Selection Students Special Rates 3 Months for $8.75— 
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Pur­chase. Soles Service oil Machines 
Michiana's Largest Dealer 
SUPER SALES CO. 

Phone: 66328 315 W. Monroe South Bend, Ind. 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION 

"Rosie's." Here you'l always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food. 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
601 North Niles 
VonUeusen 
get the Chtetel 
These good-looking Van Heusen Sportcheck shirts have 
a "come-hither" look all their own. So don't tempt fate— 
rate the dates by wearing these colorful checks. You say it's 
cold? Nonsense—not when you wear these snug sport shirts. 
They're made of Van Heusen Vanaca Flannel... a specially-
processed 100% virgin wool that's warm outdoors . . . com­
fortable indoors. See these Van Heusen Vanaca Sportchecks 
in a \dde variety of color combinations. All with the popular 
Rollover collar. $9*95 
PHILLIPS.JONES COBP.. NEW YOHK 1, N. ¥. 
The Scholastic 

lake o^Your 
Hatto ifiG Most Imporiant 
# Girl in Your Lf/e/ 
NloT the Queen of the Junior Prom, not the Kappa most likely to succeed, but a little receptionist named Jane! She's the gal at the desk at the very first company you are going to call on. The gal who will flash the word that Fearless Peerless is without, ready, willing and able to go to work. Take off your hat as you enter, smiling. And, brother, you better have a hat! Because it is a well-known fact that today's business executive looks favorably upon the pro­spective junior executive who has the foresi^t to dress the part. You may get away with being without a hat on the banks of the Old Raritan—but not on Madison Ave., LaSalle St. or Market St.! So, go forth from the hallowed halls, brother—and may luck attend you—proudly bearing your diploma in one hand and your hat in the other. With a hat, you're not dressed to get by—you're dressed to get ahead. 
''Wear « Hat-It^ t Healthy as l& HtnAsomel" 
Thesefine hat labels hove published this advertise­DOBBSm CAVANAGH f KNOX^ ment in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men. 
BERG ^ BYRON J|) C & K M DUNLAP isSa 
} 
Divisions of the Hat Corporation of America—Maliers of Fine Hats for Men and Women 
Dec. 5, 1952 
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame 
Indiana's Newest and Finest 
Ail  Opened To  
Outside  The Public  
Rooms  April  21, 1952  

92 Baths 92 Rooms 
V TERRACE DINING ROOM ~ Air Conditioned V PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned V BEAUTIFUL PATIO V RADIO IN EVERY ROOM V GOLF PRIVILEGES V CIRCULATING ICE WATER V LARGE PARKING AREA 
Delicious Food Delightful Drinks 
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
PROMPT AHENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESRVATION REQUEST 
OWNED AND OPERATED BY EDWARD H. HUNT UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Manager 
CONFERENCE IN THE CLOUDS 
Among the undergraduates on any college campus, you'll find the talk reaching up to the clouds. And once in a while —in a class­room, around a study table, or even in a bull session — a really big idea is born. 
Bia ideas come, too, from the men and women in laboratories, 
business offices, shops. But often these professionals are exploring 
a path first glimpsed in college. 
How do we know? Because of the many college people who have come into the Bell System, where big ideas and a lot of dreams have taken their place in progress. The human voice, carried along a wire, first across a town, then a state, a nation, and now the world. Music and pictures and things happening delivered into cities and hamlets all across the land by radio and television networks. 
We're always looking for the men and women who get big ideas—whether they're about people, or machines, or ways of doing things. Your Placement Officer can give you details about oppor­tunities for emplo)'ment in the Bell System. 
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
FIRST PREMIUM QUALITY CIGARETTE 
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE 
Hfii 

<^  
JS.,  GA RETTE3 'V  fKING-SIZE GAI  titil; ICM :  •  1  
LIGGETT i  MVEPS TOBACCO CO.  LIGGETT d  MYERS TOBACCO CO  

^0jA>r 
kIS 
GA^1^^^^. ^5 
^ 
\ ^5>v\^-. 
>'­
5^^"" 
?#i 
Cof)rl£hr I9>2, Liccnr & hhtu TOBACCO GX 





