1 
i%c^  *:4I  #•  f%:  C ^*.^1 V D  J  g  
fP*­ S(^P^ I&'  $ : ,t­.• <  f TM^:  '-"-•£•>»,  
/  

/  
-V'*H  
i/t  r^  
# ^^' •m  ^affc^i  
„-ik*?  

••*i •i'a*' 
-4*k • ••"•• = —-" ^ 
"S^^^t*r#? 

l?*J?i'l^.: 
OUR NATURAL SHOULDER TUXEDO $49.95 
Ever}' Notre Dame man should have his own comfortable, tropical-weight dinner jacket with matching trousers . . . tailored by Palm Beach for correctness in every detail. Natural shoulders . . . narrow lapels . . . slim trim trousers: no pleats. Get yours now . . . enjoy it during the holidays ahead . . . charge it the Campus Shop way. 

GILBERT'S 
\ -> 
Mi 
j^ 
&?#3 

OUR HERRINGBONE TOPCOAT $65 OUR NATURAL SHOULDER SUITS $65 ond $69.50 
The Campus Shop topcoats and suits are correct in every detail . . . here on the campus, or wherever you go. The topcoat comes in deep Black Walnut worsted herringbone, choice of fly or button-through front . . . set-in sleeves . . , the perfect weight for comfort. The worsted suits have natural shoulders, matching vests . . . trim ivy trousers: no pleats. In deep charcoal tones. See them soon .. . be ready for the holidays ahead. 

GILBERT 
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY 
NO CARRYING CHARGE 
Get what you need for now and the hohdays ahead, and charge it the Campus Shop way: Pay one-third in June, 1963, one-third in July, 1963, and one-third in Ausrust. 1963. You can s^et the clothing you need for yourself . , . gifts for dad and the men on your list. , . and charge your pur­chases this handy way. Never a sendee or a cariying charge, of course. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR FROM ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS 
^^UA^Cue^'^2^^^0u^Sei­

^ILBE 
ampu^ 
Football Review 

Assignment: find a fi^er papertliat ivorks liardertlie dirtkritgets 
truck I heavy dust clouds to check air filter efficiency. 

Results: Up to 30,000 miles between filter changes in Ford-built cars for '63! 
The 1963 Ford-built cars you see on the road these days can eat dust and keep coming back for more, thanks to improved carburetor air filters. 
In our continuing quest to build total quality and service-saving features into Ford-built cars, our engineering research staff explored the entire field of physical chemistry for new air-purifying properties in materials. 
The result: a filtering material made of chemically treated ^^d 
wood pulp and paper that permits Ford-built cars under 
MOTOR COMPANY 

normal operation to go from 24,000 to 30,000 miles before 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
carburetor air filter replacement is required. 
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE HOME The new, tougher filter paper is accordion folded to increase THE FARM • INDUSTRY • AND THE AGE OF SPACE surface area four-fold, permitting higher filtration in a smaller package. The more matter it accumulates, the better it filters right up to its full rated service life. It saves owners time and money. It keeps Ford-built engines livelier longer. 
Another assignment completed—and another example of how Ford Motor Company provides engineering leadership for the American Road. 
December 7, 1962 
If you have trouble saying it... 



Say it with a Parker 
If you're a little shy and have difficulty say­ing "I love you" or even "I like you very much"—say it with a Parker. 
The new Parker Arrow makes a beauti­fully expressive gift and looks as if you paid a small fortune for it. It only costs $3.95, however, which should leave you with enough date money for an impressive pres­entation ceremony in romantic surround­ings such as the second booth from the back in your local drugstore. 
The new Parker Arrow comes in black. 
dark blue, light blue, light gray, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replace­able solid 14K gold points. Gift-boxed with five free cartridges. 
P. S.To girls: a Parker Arrow—besides being a very romantic gift—comes in one size (the right one), should last at least ten times longer than a scarf or a tie, and should bring in a harvest of correspondence you'll cherish the rest of your life. 
<|> PARKER Maker of Ihe world's most wanted pens 

New PARKER ARROW only 3 ^ 
Football Review 
Contact Lens Specialist 
Dr. T. R. Pnel 
Optometrist 
EYES EXAMINED 
OPTICAL BEPAIRS 
GLASSES FITTED 

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
A Most Welcome Gift 
For Christmas 
SPECIAL 
4 LOVELY GIFT MINIATURE PORTRAITS 



$950 
N.D. Student Card Honored 
LIMITED OFFER 
Call Now: CE 2-2003 
McDonald Studio 
116 W. COLFAX 

TREASUSy NOTRE DAMJE FOOTBAi 
edited by Gene 

NOTICE — Special Scholastic Advertising Rates Now available for off Campus C/ubs and Orgonfiotions 
For Information call JAY WARD, Ext. 515 
A man needs Jockeif support 
Jockey is for men. Made from 13 separate pieces to give the support and protection every man needs 
A man needs a special kind of support for true male comfort. And only Jockey builds a brief from 13 sepa­rate, tailored pieces to give that sup­port—plus comfort. No other brief has such a firm, long-lasting waistband to hold the brief up for constant support, and no other brief has the Jockey as surance of no-gap security. 
Get the real thing ...it isn't Jockey 
if it doesn't have the Jocicey Boy.— COOPCR-S. INCOBPOP.TEO. «Er.osH«. V«.SC. 
The Wonderful Tales and Anecdotes About the Fighting Irish 
Now Available in a New Book 
A TREASURY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
edited by Gene Schoor 
The near-legendary history of football at Notre Dame is colorfully chronicled as it happened! Here are tales and anecdotes by some of the magic names in sports—Red Smith, Knute Rockne, Herman Hickman, John Kieran, John Lardner, Grantland Rice and others. 
This handsome book is generously illustrated with 32 pages of photographs to delight football and sports fans everywhere. 
$8.50 

Now on sale downtown at 
THE BOOK SHOP 
130 No. Michigan St. 

December 7, 1962 
—rr 1 • nr-11—ri"Wiir ITf I'nn Vi i *ini mii"~ B 
V&i
QnCanipis 
(Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.) 
HAPPY TALK 
As we all know, conversation is terribl3'^ important on a date. Wlien lulls in the conversation run longer than an hour or two, one's partner is inclined to grow logj-—even sullen. But occasionally one finds it difficult to keep the talk going, especiallj' when one is ha^ang a first date with one. Wliat, then, does one do? 
If one is wise, one follows the brilliant 

example of Harlow Thurlow. 
Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his simple secret. Wlien Harlow is going to take out a new girl, he makes sure in ad­vance that the conversation will not lan­guish. Before the date, he goes to the librarj' and reads all 24 volumes of the encj'clopedia and transcribes their con­tents on his cuffs. Thus he makes sure that no matter what his date's interests are, he will have ample material to keep the conversation alive. 
Take, for e.\ample, Har­low's first date with Priscilla de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-ej'ed broth of a girl, lavishly constructed and rosy as the dawn. 
Harlow was, as always, prepared when he called for Priscilla, and, as always, he did not start to converse immediatel}'. First he took her to dinner because, as everj'one knows, it is use­less to trj' to make conver­sation with an unfed coed. Her attention span is neg­Harlow, and pulled back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a likely topic to start the conversation. 
Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had painstakingly trans-scribed so many facts—those cuffs on which he had noted such diverse and fascinating information—those cuffs, I say, were nothing now but a big, blue blur! For Harlow—poor Harlow!— splashing around in the finger bowl had gotten his cuffs wet, and the ink had run and not one word was legible! And Har­low—poor Harlow!—looked upon his cuffs and broke out in a night sweat and fell dumb. 
"I must say," said Priscilla after sev­eral silent hours, "that you are a very dull fellow. I'm lea\ang." 
With that she flounced away and poor 
ligible. Also, her stomach rumbles so loud it is difficult 
)fdW(^if&3niikwhf*
to make yourself heard. 
So he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked her with gobbets of Black Angus and mounds of French fries and thickets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at last, dinner was over and the waiter brought two finger bowls. 
"I hope 3'ou enjoj'ed j'our dinner, mj' dear," said Harlow, dipping into his fin­ger bowl. 
"Oh, it was grandy-dandy!" said Pris­cilla. "Now let's go someplace for ribs." 
"Later, perhaps," said Harlow. "But right now, I thought we might have a conversation." 
"Oh, goodj', goody, two-shoes!" cried Priscilla. "I been looking everjnvhere for a boy who can carrv"^ on a intelligent con­versation." 
"Your search is ended, madam," said Harlow was too crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a cigarette. 

All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. "Was that," she asked, "a Marl­boro you just Ut?" 
"Yes," said Hariow. 
"Then j^ou are not a dull fellow," she cried, and sprang into his lap. "You are hrigUl Anybody is bright to smoke such a perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro which is just chock full of yummy flavor, which has a Selectrate filter, which comes in a soft pack that is reallj'^ soft, and a Flip-Top Box that really flips, and wliich can be bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fiftj"^ states and Duluth . . . Harlow, tiger, wash your cuffs and be my love." 
"Okay," said Harlow, and did, and was. 
© 1962 Max Shulman 
The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who print this column at hideous expense throughout the school year, are very happy for Harlow—and for all the rest of you who have dis­covered the pleasures of Marlboro. 
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN 
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL 

1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31 • 
Reservations: CE 4-0136 
• CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. '38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. '3S 
You Always Gel a Square Deal at Breen's 
•
 WATCHES • DIAMONDS 

•
 RADIOS • SHAVERS 


Expert Watch Repairing •k 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS 
BREEN'S 
Jeweler 

325 S. Michigan SL Phone AT 7-3630 
•""^ItWrURBOW 
VpPTOiMBTIIISli 
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED 
CONTACT LENSES 
INQUIRIES INVITED 
EYE EXAMINATION 

OUVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777 
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP 
SINCE 7911 
nCTURE FRAMING • ART SUPPLIES 

COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS 
• 
117 NORTH MAIN ST. 
South Bend, Indiana 
CEntral 3-2409 
NICOLA'S 
Crocker Crust 
Pizza 
CE 4-6688 
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan 
Football Review 

NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A Special Gift —Keserved for Special People 
'The Ideal Christmas GifT' 
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of feweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS—1962-63 
All rings are in durable 10K Gold 
Black Onyx $ 17.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS 
Synthetic Blue Spine! No. 1, bufF top, faceted back 19.00 
Alt-diamond cluster $165.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00 
synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue 19.00 WEDDING BANDS Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular $ 8.00 No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour 9.00 Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular 11.00 No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
Ring Size For Measuring Finger 
34567891011 
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
LIEUTENANT JOHN MONTEFUSCO, HISTORY MAJOR, CLASS OF '61 
I f I had it to do over again, would I take Army R.QIC? 
My wife and I are in Panama at the moment. She likes it. You know, Ofl&cers' Club, dances—that sort of thing. I like it, too. But whether I stay in the Army or not, the question is: Would I take Army R.O.T.C. if I had it to do over again? Yes, I certainly would. In spades, I didn't realize how lucky I was. At the time I figured: Okay, so I'll get my degree—get an Army commission, too, and pick up some extra money along the way! I wasn't the leadership type, I thought. I was wrong. Boy, was I wrong! Looking back on it, I wouldn't trade the leadership training I got for anything! Take my word for it, leaders are made—^not born! Whether I stay in the Army or not, nobody can take away what I've learned. And let's face it, where can anybody my age step out of college and walk into a standard of living this 
good? Look, if you have already invested two years in college ROTC, take it from me: Stick it out! It'll be one of the smartest things you ever did. I say so." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

The Notre Dame Fan's best report on Irish sports, SUBSCRIPTION — S5.00 PER YEAR 
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry 
* 
J. Trethewey, Jeweler 
For: Hamilton — Elgin Bulova—Longines and Wittnouer Watches 
104 N. Main SL CE 2-1756 
1963 NOTRE DAME TOURS 
6-DAY ALL EXPENSE FOOTBALL THEATRE TOUR 
TO 
NEW YORK CITY 
NOV. 26-DEC. 2 
N.D. vs. SYRACUSE 
THANKSGIVING DAY YANKEE STADIUM 
SEE 2 LEADING STAGE PLAYS 
• 
STAY AT ONE OF NEW YORK'S LUXURIOUS HOTELS 
ONE DAY TRIPS 
NOTRE DAME vs. PURDUE 
WEST LAFAYETTE, INDIANA 
October 5, 1963 
Via Indiana Motor Bus • N.D. vs. MICHIGAN STATE 
EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN 
November 16, 1963 
Via Grand Trunk Railroad 
FOR FULL INFORMATION and/or to place your name on mailing list write: 
REDDEN 
TRAVEL BUREAU 
1671 Lincofnway East 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
AT 9-9259 
Football Review 
Vol. 104 No. 9 December 7, 1962 
editor-in-chief 
JOHN BECHTOLD 
associate editor 
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
special contributors 
MIKE BARRY REGE CAMPFIELD BOB CONWAY BILL CRAGG TOM ECKROAT JACK GERKEN DICK KENNEDY REX LARDNER BOB LEFFLER JACK McCABE SKIP RENKER JOE RYAN GARY SABBATE BOB SCHEFFING JOE YOCHES 
photography 
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
business manager 
JAY WARD 

The Football Review is a regular issue of the SCHO­LASTIC. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the SCHOLASTIC is accepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
football 
CONTENTS 
You Win Some, You Lose Some 12 Irish Action '62 16 Individual game summaries 19-35 Oklahoma 19 Purdue 20 Wisconsin 21 
Michigan State 22 Northwestern 23 Navy 25 Pittsburgh 30 North Carolina 33 Iowa 34 Southern California 35 
Faces of the Irish 24 College Sports Editors All-America 26 Irish Stars 36 Prospects for '63 38 Statistics
 38 1963 Schedule
 44 Freshman Team
 47 Behind the Scenes !
 48 Spirit 48 
THE COVER 
Clay Stephens blocks as Gerry Gray picks up eight yards on Notre Dame's first touchdown drive of the season. 
December 7, 1962 

1962 was not as successful a year for Notre Dame football as some had expected, but was not as dismal as many had envisioned. The high point was the rejuvenated performance of the Irish on the four Saturdays of November. Low points were the four consecutive losses to Big Ten rivals and the apparent ease with which the Trojans of Southern California han­dled an upset-minded Notre Dame eleven in the season finale. 
THE GAMES 
Before a nation-wide television audi­ence, the Irish opened the 1962 cam­paign against Bud Wilkinson's Okla­homa Sooners. A large homecoming crowd at Norman, Okla., hoped to see the Sooners avenge their famed 1957 loss and score their second straight win of the young season. Oklahoma had opened impressively with a vic­tory over Syracuse the week before, while Irish coach Joe Kuharich had been plagued by injuries and inex­perience in preseason preparation. 
Notre Dame opened strong with an inspiring 13-7 triumph. Daryle La­monica directed the offense flawlessly, completing all five of his passes and providing the running punch along with seniors Ed Rutkowski and BiU Ahern. WTiile certain individuals stood out, this was a team effort — highlighted by a brilliant goal line stand in the last half. 
The four week ends of October would like to be forgotten by Irish fans. The poised team that whipped Oklahoma beat itself with careless mistakes against Purdue, losing 28-6. The October game of revolving quar­terbacks began as preseason "reg­ulars" Lamonica and junior Frank Budka proved ineffective. Unheralded Dennie Szot, coming off the bench in the final stanza, showed flashes of brilliance at the signal-caUing posi­tion. This performance of Szot gave Notre Dame fans some hope as un-

beaten Wisconsin loomed ahead. The Wisconsin week end will be re­membered by Notre Dame students for beer consumed rather than foot­ball played as the Badgers beat an Irish squad that tried, but did not jell, 17-8. Bitter rival Michigan State, cap­tained by a supposed overrated George Saimes, came to South Bend on Monsoon Saturday. Some Notre Dame followers saw hope — figuring the rains would stop Spartan scat-backs Sherman Lewis and Dewey Lin­coln. A few mentioned that Saimes had been a one-man show against the Irish in 1961, but they were quieted by assurances by the "experts" that this was a lucky day that had not been duplicated since by Saimes. On the fifth Spartan scrimmage play from the MSU 46 yard line, Saimes handled the ball for the first time. The next 59 minutes convinced the sell-out crowd that, perhaps, Saimes was underrated. Saimes only held on to the ball for about ten sec­onds in this initial carry before he jubilantly heaved it into the rain from the Notre Dame end zone. However, after this and another long touchdown scamper by Sherman Lewis, Notre Dame played the Spar­tans on even terms — trailing only 12-7 at half time. Unfortunately for the Irish, Saimes also played in the second half. In what must go down as the greatest individual performance in stadium his­tory, the Golden Greek made two dazzling touchdown runs, a clutch in­terception, and red-dogged brilliantly from a halfback position; he generally dominated the game. Number one ranked Northwestern continued unbeaten as they slaugh­tered Notre Dame, 35-6, before a sell­out Wildcat homecoming crowd the next week end. The passing combina­tion of Tommy Myers to Paul Flatley and the general ineptitude of the Irish in all facets of the game made it no contest. The following Saturday, after four straight mediocre performances, be­gan a month of play that certainly was the best in Kuharich's four years. 
On a sponge-like field at Philadelphia, Lamonica and Co. upended the Mid­dies of Navy, 20-12. 
Notre Dame looked like an Irish unit of championship days in beating a fairly good Pitt eleven, 43-22. The Lamonica to Jim KeUy combo erased many all-time Irish records as the team jelled like a national title squad. 
A stubborn North Carolina team slowed the Notre Dame drive for a half, but fell to a 21-point second haK outburst. Don Hogan, Tommy Mac­Donald and Joe Farrell starred as the Irish won their third straight, 21-7. 
"Our best performance — everyone was tremendous," explained an un­usually happy Kuhcirich after the Iowa game. Kelly broke seasonal Notre Dame pass receiving marks, while Lcimonica, Hogan, and Farrell were again outstanding in a 35-12 vic­tory. 
Everyone was pointing to the next week's encounter with the nation's top-ranked squad. Southern California. Many quarters picked an upset for the 
rejuvenated Irish. Optimism abounded around the campus as it looked like Notre Dame was ready to again amaze the football world. Spirit was high­lighted by a Tuesday night rally at one of the dorms, the usual pep raUy, and an impromptu rally for the color­ful Budka, taking a test during the regular session, in back of a class building. 
Unfortunately, the Trojans had just too much balance for Notre Dame. Southern California's line and the great running of Ben Wilson and Wil­lie Brown whipped an Irish club that seemed flat after their November wins. 
THE STARS 
There were many outstanding in­dividual performances this season. The finest was that of Jim KeUy. He broke both game and season pass re­ceiving records and must be rated as one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame history. Only injuries can stop the talented junior from AU-American listings next season and the distinc­tion of being the greatest end in Irish history. 
Lamonica was the driving force in aU five of Notre Dame's wins. His general leadership and all-around play left nothing to be desired in these vic­tories. 
Ed Hoerster and Bob Lehmann were 
outstanding in the line all season. Both were gutty players, holding their ovvn against some of the top backs in the country. 
Hogan, Farrell, and Jim CarroU had outstanding sophomore years and show great promise. Hogan, especially, was a spairk in gaining over 450 yards this season. 

December 7, 1962 
One of the biggest improvements this year was that of the defensive secondary. MacDonald broke the Notre Dame record for passes inter­cepted with nine, most of them key grabs in clutch situations. 
Budka developed into, as he said, "a defensive specialist noted for his clean playing."' Besides always providing the fans with a show, he was the most versatile man on the team. He 
"••^^ 
G^i 

was outstanding in the secondary, made a clutch catch against Navy as a flanker back, and may yet develop into a consistent performer at of­ensive quarterback, his natural posi­tion. 
ANALYSIS 
An analysis of this individual sea­son would seem to indicate that Kuhcirich, basically, has done a creditable job. Kuharich, looking ahead to this season, said last spring "Much depends on whether Mike Lind, Jim Snowden, and Jim Kelly stay healthy." 
Perhaps the greatest tragedy of the season was the knee injury to cap­tain Lind that kept him sidelined most of the season. Lind could have been one of the top i-unning backs in the nation if he had not been hurt. He showed in his junior season that he possesses one of the quickest starts in college ball and was a highly effective inside runner. If he can sh^e off the hard-luck jinx, he should become a topflight pro runner. 
Kuharich had counted on Lind for much of the ground attack this sea­son and, while Farrell developed quickly, Lind's absence was notice­able. Also Lind was the type of cap­tain whose greatest leadership asset was the playing example he provided. 
The loss of Snowden, Paul Costa, and Mickey Bitsko because of aca­
•>r^* 

demic deficiencies greatly hindered Kuharich's '62 plans. Bitsko would have been one of the outstanding performers in a line that suffered greatly from inexperience, ^^'hether Snowden and Costa would have de­veloped into outstanding runners is debatable; however, both had the raw ability to bolster this season's at­tack. 
Therefore, a five-five season is all that could be expected for 1962 under the circumstances. However, the fact remains that Kuharich had a rebuild­ing record in his fourth season at the helm. He has not produced a win­ning team in any of them. 
Once again this year the team's in­consistency was highlighted. As Kuharich often has said, "You win some, and you lose some." This pro­fessional approach does not take into account the emotions of the players. 
No one will deny that Kuharich knows the technicalities of football. 
He is a sound, experienced coach who can spot basic flaws quickly. How­ever, he is very set in his conception of the game. 
With the vast cU-ray of talent that is present on most big time college teams, no one squad can ever again establish a destiny as in the past. Therefore, with equal material and a well-schooled coaching staff, other factors determine the final victor. 
S^if%. 
Luck, or the breaks of the game, is certainly one of these. However, continual losses cannot be blamed on this alone. Continually winning teams, besides possessing outstanding material, usually are based on either inspiration or imagination. 
Kuharich, being a professional, treats the team as a group of indi­viduals whose dedication to the game is aU-encompassing or professional. Also this treatment is the same as would be giv^en at any other school. Therefore, the biggest single asset of Notre Dame is ignored in the internal development of the dub: its unique spirit. 
That something meaningful has been ignored was pointed out by Tom Kapacinskas, writing in the Nov. 16 issue of the SCHOLASTIC. 
The desire to win football games, as a result of the Notre Dame spirit, became an answering con-
Football Revien' 

struct, a symbol of the aspiration for which Notre Dame at her best stood — intellectually, culturally, socially, physically. It became a sustaining ideal for all associated with this University and, soon, for all those — Catholic and non-Catholic alike — who began to look wonderingly at the victorious facil­ity of the school's football team. Many began thinking—many grew up thinking—because of this very physical manifestation of internal spiritual, and intellectual strength 
— that perhaps there was some­thing unique about the place. Per­haps there was, something which set it apart from every other uni­versity in the country — not to say the world. 
The Notre Dame spirit, the desire to win over all for that abiding in­ternal reason, became more than a sustaining symbol. It became a sustaining tradition. This tradition, this answering construct, nourished sneer at such terms as "winning tradition" and "Notre Dame spirit." 
This results because the answer­ing construct of the tradition, the sustaining ideal, has lost its grace of meaning — like so many liturgi­cal terms. We have awakened to find that the old meaning of Notre Dame football has escaped us. The old, unconscious, but clear-cut moti­vation is gone. 
I feel Notre Dame must be unique in its very nature. This must be true in football especially. To treat the Notre Dame football team like another major college team or like a profes­sional unit is basically wrong. To be quite frank, it is obvious that Notre Dame cannot match in the re­cruitment of players the offers of other major colleges — either finan­cially or in terms of social life. The top athletes at Notre Dame now, who could have gone to most colleges in the nation, came to Notre Dame be-them wonder if they should have pos­sibly gone elsewhere, feeling that the Notre Dame approach is no different from the Northwestern or Michigan State approach — differing only in lack of material gains or social life. 
This unique spirit must not be a merely external projected mirage. feel that some of the pep rallies have become simply superficial spectacles that have been used as forums for complaints directed not against the opposing team and are thought of only for their entertainment value. However, many of these rallies have served a useful purpose (Joe Boland's speech before the 1959 Iowa game is an excimple of this). This spirit must be conceived more along the lines of the Badin Hall prerally rally or the spontaneous reaction that brought about the Budka demonstration before the Southern California game. This can be achieved at the major rallies also. 
Some of the individual players re-

the school in a special way for many years. The values and mean­ings it held within its frame of ref­erence were valid and good and, as mentioned above, stood for Notre Dame at her best. 
We face a conundrum today where football is concerned. We have awakened to find that we no longer win simply as a matter of course. We have even begun to cause of this uniqueness. If, upon coming here, they are handled no differently than in any "football fac­tory," then this uniqueness and its practical application on the footbaU field are gone. 
The coaching staff, Kuharich or anybody else, must naturally be com­petent football men. But they must instiU a type of attitude into the in­dividual players that will not make turning next year like Hogan possess this type of spirit, luckily. With most of the stars of this season coming back with another year of experience, Notre Dame should have more nat­ural ability than at any time in re­cent years. If the coaching staff can realize the emotional as well as the physical potential of the squad, then Notre Dame will once again lead the way. 
December 7, 1962 
S'^:Agi'5rA^!:iiaiifeMsgJtt5gv^^ ktgaiigJVtagari'eMjgrttJKKinjttJw'^g.*^ 
^M 'J^-^-i,­tti 
fcv  X'^; /  
_  "^  i  ti tei/'  V  
I R I S H  

Football Revicn' 
A C 
T 
I 
O 
N 
'62 

December 7, 1962 
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: PAUL DOWNING 
How can telephone craftsmen be kept up to date on the sophisticated equipment of the Telstar age? Paul Downing 
(B.S., 1956) solves this problem for Illinois Bell. 
Paul's job is to evaluate Illinois Bell's plant training methods. He came to this job from one in which he super­vised 72 repairmen and installers. As Test Center Foreman for the Franklin District of Chicago, Paul learned the 
TEiEPHOHE MAN^jr-THE-liOHTB 
business quickly and showed a strong knack for handling responsibility. This important ability led to his promotion as Telephone Wire Chief. 
Paul Downing and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America. 
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
ND 13, OKLAHOMA 7 

Irish Top Sooners in Season Opener 
Norman, Okla., Sept. 29—Notre Dame drove for scores after taking the opening and second half kickoffs, and muscled to a 13-7 victory over Oklahoma here this after­noon. It was Notre Dame's 72nd win in 74 opening games, and the fifth for the Irish in six contests with the Bud Wilkinson-coached Sooners. 
Three senior backs and a line which was just too big for Oklahoma to handle proved to be the deciding factors for the Irish. Quarterback Daryle Lamonica did an excel­lent job of faking, ball handling, and directing the team, ran for 25 yards himself, and hit five of five key passes for 62 yards. Halfback Ed Rutkowski and fullback Bill Ahem, neither of whom played enough to earn a mono­gram last season, scored Notre Dame's two touchdowns and between them racked up 80 of the team's 202 rushing yards. 
After Rutkowski returned Oklahoma's opening kick 23 
yards to the 31, the Irish began a drive which carried 69 
yards in only ten plays, almost a seven-yard average. 
Rutkowski contributed 27 yards to the march, including 
the last seven for the touchdown, and converted success­
fully. 

The key play in the drive was a 15-yard Lamonica to Clay Stephens pass on third-and-four, which gave Notre Dame a first down on the Oklahoma 47-yard line. The march was relentless: Rutkowski got five at right guard, Frank Minik four at left tackle, Rutkowski nine around right end; Lamonica rolled around left end and lateralled to Minik for 10, Gerry Gray blasted over left guard for eight (see cover) ^ and Minik got four more for a first down on the Sooners' seven. Capping the drive, Lamonica pitched to Rutkowski who swept right end and went into the end zone almost untouched. 
After gaining five yards on an exchange of punts, Oklahoma moved 58 yards in 10 plays for its lone touch­down, aided by an offside penalty which advanced the ball from the Notre Dame 10 to the five. Paul Lea, blocked from behind by several teammates, shoved over from the one. Guard George Jarman converted to pull Oklahoma into a 7-7 tie, with only 38 seconds left in the first period. 
The second quarter was a seesaw defensive battle in which two Notre Dame threats were halted by intercep­tions. 
The Irish opened the second hcdf with a magnificent display of ball-control football, consuming 11 minutes and 35 seconds on an 89-yard scoring march. Lamonica di­rected the team flawlessly for 19 plays. Said Coach Joe Kuharich: "It was an amazing job. You usually can't run 19 plays in dummy scrimmage without making a mistake." Ahern scored from the nine, slipping through a hole at left guard and into the end zone before the Oklahoma sec­ondary had a chance to react. 
Notre Dame spent most of the fourth period fending off the charging Sooners. Oklahoma moved steadily from its own 28, using 13 running plays to get a first down on the Notre Dame three. With their backs to the wall the Irish got tough. Tackles by Bob Lehmann, Budka, and Kelly held the Sooners to two yards in three attempts, and on fourth down Minik recovered a fumbled pitchout at the 12 to preserve a hard-fought opening game victory. 
—Terry WolJcerstorfer 
ND 6, PURDUE 24 
Offense Ineffective, Penalties Hurt 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 6 — Notre Dame's Fighting Irish were crushed by the Boilermakers of Purdue, 24-6, in a game played before 61,000 in Notre Dame Stadium this afternoon. 
First-quarter play seemed to keynote a defensive battle with Purdue's two first downs being the only ones of the period. However, this statistic was due more to a lack of offense rather than any great defensive action. 
The pattern the game was to follow becaime evident later in the period when Lamonica was forced to punt from behind his own goal to the mid-field line, only to have Purdue haK Dave jMiUer run the kick back to the Irish 27. The quarter ended with Purdue in possession in a fourth-down situation on the Notre Dame ten. Skip Ohl did the inevitable by kicking a 17-yard field goal to open the second period. 
Before the period was over, the Boilermakers had tacked seven points to their score on a 25-yard Ron Di-Gravio to Forest Farmer pass play. The touchdown drive started on the Purdue 37 after Daryle Lamonica threw incomplete on a fourth and six pass attempt. With Gary Hogan passing and Charhe King running, the men from Lafayette moved the ball to the Irish 25 in four plays. Hogan missed on a pass to King, then DiGravio came in and hit Farmer in the end zone. 
A Lamonica punt on a fourth and seven situation early in the third quarter drew boos from the crowd who felt the Irish had given up. Some fine running and two weU-executed pass plays by DiGravio, totalling 58 yards, brought the pigskin to within the Irish five. DiGravio went over from the one two plays later. 
The opening minutes of the fourth quarter saw Notre Dame and South Bend's own Dennis Murphy pilfer a Boilermaker toss on the Irish 45 and bring it back 55 yards for a score only to have it nullified by a penalty against one of his teammates. 
Later in the quarter, sophomore Denis Szot fumbled on his first play in an Irish uniform and gave the ball to Purdue on the ND 20-yard line. In one play Gene Donaldson went over for the TD and the score rose to 24-0. After the kickoff, the Szot-led Irish drove for a touch­down with a 17-yard pass play from Szot to Don Hogan culminating the rally. 
The 24-6 victory was the Boilermakers' eleventh in 34 attempts; there have been two ties. It was Purdue's fourth triumph over Notre Dame in their last five outings. 
The game revealed, most of all, a lackluster Irish of­fense. The rushing attack was almost nonexistent, the passing accuracy not much better. Lamonica had one of his worst days in the air, consistently overthrowing his target or throwing behind his man. The backs couldn't penetrate Purdue's line and were held to short gains, if they managed to gain at all. 
The outlook was not completely gloomy, however. Denis Szot emerged as a quarterback who could, at least, inspire the team even though they trailed by 24 points in the final quarter. Daryle Lamonica, disappointing over the first three downs, proved he could boot the pigskin for long yardage in a fourth-down situation. The contest also proved that the Fighting Irish, after a so-so, five and five season, could still draw record crowds — in this case 61,292. 
Purdue showed the Irish one of the best defensive lines in the nation together with two equally skilled passing quarterbacks. The 18-point Notre Dame deficit was due to the fact that Purdue played up to expectations while the men under Kuharich didn't come up with as fine a gcmie as expected. Notre Dame had its usual bad breaks: two TD's called back by penalties, Lamonica's punt which rolled dead on the three but was brought back to the twenty. 
—Joe Ryan 
Football Review 

ND 8, WISCONSIN 17 
VanderKelen Sparks Badger Attack 
Madison, Wis., Oct. 13 — Under a brilliant autumn sun, the Badgers of Wisconsin continued their drive for na­tional football recognition by defeating the Fighting Irish 17-8 here today. In a hard-fought contest, unheralded Wis­consin quarterback Ron VanderKelen threw a touchdown pass and scored once himself, and Notre Dame lost its second straight game to a Big Ten opponent. 
VanderKelen, playing in the shadow of "almost great" Ron Miller and hampered by injuries, saw all of 90 seconds of action last fall. Though he enjoyed great success against two inferior teams in Wisconsin's first games, he came into his own this afternoon both offensively and defen­sively as he pitched 25 yards to Ail-American Pat Richter for a first period touchdown, scored on a one-yard plunge in the third quarter, and intercepted a pass late in the fourth stanza to thwart the last Irish attempt. 
The Badgers spurted to a 10-0 lead in the first quarter, on long drives the first two times they had possession, but needed the breaks of the game and great defensive work to play the Irish on even terms thereeifter. 
The home team elected to receive, returned the open­ing kick to their 20, and marched in nine plays to the Notre Dame 17, where Gary Kroner kicked a field goal with 6:08 of the first period remaining. VanderKelen passes of 14, 22, and 14 yards were the big plays. 
Notre Dame took the ensuing kickoff and was forced to punt from its own 20. This time the Badgers moved 64 yards to pay dirt in seven plays. VanderKelen's passes were again the big gainers, and he capped the drive with a 20-yard heave to 6-6 AU-American end Pat Richter. Only 24 seconds remained in the first stanza as Kroner con­verted to make the score 10-0. 
After the Irish had moved to the Wisconsin 36, Frank Budka's fourth-and-one pass caught the Badgers nap­ping; unfortunately, it was just out of reach of end Denny Murphy, who had no one to beat, and the drive stalled. 
The second quarter was a comedy of errors, with Wisconsin fumbling to the Irish twice and neither team able to mount an attack. 
The final Badger touchdown came in the third period, as a fumble in the Irish backfield gave Wisconsin the baU on the Notre Dame five. On the third play of the series, VanderKelen knifed over left guard for the six points. Kroner converted with 2:15 left in the quarter, and Wis­consin's scoring was completed. 
Denny Szot engineered the only Irish touchdown of the day, as he led the Green 68 yards in eight plays late in the fourth quarter. Sophomore halfback Don Hogan sliced off left tackle from the three for the score; Szot's two-point conversion pass was completed to Jack Snow. Big plays in the scoring drive were two passes of nine and 33 yards to end Jim Kelly. 
In the final analysis, the Irish adapted well enough to stifle the Wisconsin passing attack, but couldn't handle the Badgers' swift, strong running backs. And, as Joe Ku­harich said in a post-mortem, "we just couldn't make the big plays." 
—Rege Campfield 
ND 7, MICHIGAN STATE 31 
Rains, Saimes Ruin Game for Irish 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 20 — It appeared to many a rain spattered fan that Coach Duffy Daugherty unleashed some of the Agriculture Department's finest beef, as the mighty Spartans of Michigan State stampeded to a 31-7 rout over the Irish. 
George Saimes, the man who knocked the Irish out of top contention with two touchdown runs last year, more than bettered his 1961 performance. The State captain and All-American fullback scored three touchdowns, col­lected 153 yards in 13 carries, and was a demon on de­fense. It was perhaps his finest collegiate effort. 
"Let George do it" — and he did. On the fifth play of the game he dashed 54 yards for his first touchdown. Irish fans begem to moan. Five plays later, another thorn in the Irish side, tiny scatback Sherman Lewis outraced the ND defenders for 72 yards and the second State touchdown. Irish hopes of an upset were nearly erased. 
The early Spartan lead looked invincible, but the two teams exchanged punts emd the Irish took possession in­side the Spartan 50. Denis Szot was at the helm for the Irish. Szot overthrew Bliey, but connected the next time to Don Hogan for a first down on the 33. P\dlback Joe Farrell hit the middle for nine; then Szot, electing to pass again, fired a strike to end Dave Pivec at the Spartan 12. FcU-rdl carried to the eight, and twice more to the two-yard line. Then, on his fourth carry of the drive, the hard-running fullback plunged two yards to pay dirt. Ed Rut­kowsM added the point after and the Irish trailed 12-7 with 2:10 remaining in the first period. 
The second half could be described by the word Saimes, as once again the "Golden Greek" romped for two third-quarter scores. On the Irish's second play of the half, he cilertly picked off a Lamonica jimip pass at the 22. Three plays gained only six yards for the Spartans and it looked like field gocd time. But nothing doing. On fourth and four, the big fullback from Canton, O., took a pitchout and raced off left tackle for his second touchdown. The extra point failed again, but the Spartans, with only 3:17 gone in the third period, had jumped to an 18-7 lead. 
Notre Dame's wall collapsed on the next defensive series, as the Spartans drove 57 yards for their fourth touchdown. The scoring play came when quarterback Pete Smith threw a perfect strike to end Dick Flynn. The Spartans' only noticeable weakness, extra points, was once again evident, and with 5:11 left in the third quarter, it was Michigan 24 — Notre Dame 7. Five minutes was planty of time for Saimes. 
Lamonica's 59-yard punt put the Spartans on their 16, but not for long. Saimes carried twice to the 25, and Lewis followed with a 22-yard scamper to the 47. Two plays later, at the Irish 49, Big George found a hole and shot through for his third touchdown of the game. Earl Lattimer finally made good on the conversion attempt, and the Spartans incresised the margin to 31-7 
Irish Coach, Joe Kuharich, disappointed with the team's third strciight loss, had this to say — "They were a big, strong club with speed. They had much more depth than we did. Saimes? He's terrific. A great football player." 
"Other teams might have fallen apart," said Duffy Daugherty, "but that Irish club kept scrapping." Praise comes easy to the victor though, especially to a man whose team has won its seventh straight over Notre Dame, and its tenth since 1950. 
—Jack McCabe 

ND 6, NORTHWESTERN 35 
Myers* Passing Highlights Game 
Evanston, El., Oct. 27 — Too much Myers. This was the story at Dyche Stadium this afternoon as North-western's Wildcats, quarterbacked by sensational Tommy Myers, mauled and dismembered Notre Dame 35-6. It was Myers who, time eifter time, accurately threw pinpoint passes into the Irish secondary; it was Myers who, be­hind a chunky Northwestern line, directed most of the Wildcats' running attack which devoured 202 yards for the afternoon and perplexed Irish defenders constantly. This was a game in which the quarteback starred; this was Tommy Myers' game and he maneuvered the Wild­cats almost unerringly before an ecstatic homecoming throng of over 55,000 spectators. 
On this bright fall afternoon, Notre Dame's incapacity to recover from any bad break turned the game into a quick rout. Irish impotence was further heightened by the savage play of Northwestern's bulky linemen, who clogged Irish running passages and outblocked Notre Dame aU afternoon. One glimmer of hope for Irish fans, however, was Notre Dame's passing attack. Spearheaded by Irish quarterback Daryle Lamonica, Notre Dame managed to accumulate an impressive 190 yards through the air and thus save the game from becoming a total failure for Notre Dame in all departments. 
Notre Dame's troubles mounted early in the contest. On the first play from scrimmage, Ed Rutkowski fumbled. Northwestern recovered and eight plays later, fullback Steve Murphy jolted across the gocd line to send the Wild­cats into the lead. Dick Ulhrir kicked the extra point and a stunned Notre Dame team found itself behind 7-0. 
From that point the Wildcats became virtually un­stoppable. After an exchange of interceptions — one of which checked one threatening Wildcat drive — Myers recovered and flipped a 23-yard touchdown pass to the 
December 7, 1962 
sensational Paul Flatley — his favorite receiver. Ulhrir kicked the extra point and soon the first quarter ended. Northwestern led 14-0. 
A blocked punt set up another Northwestern score in the second quarter. With the ball on Notre Dame's 23-yard line, Myers was spilled for a ten-yard loss. But on the ensuing play, he completed a 28-yard pass. Moments later and aided by an offside penalty, Steve Murphy blasted over center for the third Wildcat touchdown. Ulhrir once more booted the extra point. At the half Northwestern led, 21-0. 
The second half saw a determined Irish squad make a gallant but hopeless comeback. One Irish drive bogged down in Wildcat territory. Myers then continued to bring more havoc on the now beleaguered Irish. Northwestern scored again in a drive that featured a 40-yard Myers-to-Flatley pass; this drive was climaxed by Myers' 7-yard toss to Flatley. Myers passed to Dick Mach^ski for the two-pointer and the score zoomed to 29-0. 
But Notre Dame was not to be denied a touchdown. Lamonica directed an Irish drive that led to Notre Dame's only score of the afternoon. Lamonica hit Jim Sherlock for 39 yards and then passed to KeUy for 10 yards. After a few running plays, Joe Farrell crashed over center for 3 yards and the touchdown. The try for the two-pointer failed. 
Northwestern administered the coup de grace Avith another touchdown achieved through a series of ground plays. Dick McCauley danced around tacklers on a draw play and scored from Notre Dame's six-yard line. The try for the two-pointer failed but Northwestern had more than succeeded. The scoreboard showed Northwestern's 35-6 clobbering of Notre Dame to be the worst ever in­flicted on the Irish by a Wildcat team. 
—Gary Sahatte 

^Gjcei 0^ the 9Uik 
Football Review 

ND 20. NAVY 12 
Lamonica Leads Comeback Surge 
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 3 — After four successive washouts against Big Ten opponents, the Irish finally be­gan to ride their own tide today as they fought back to beat Navy, 20-12, in a cold rain. Daryle Lamonica had his best day at signal calling since the Oklahoma game, and his determined execution, when Irish ambitions were bleak, reflected the team's bounce-back spirit. 
First half action saw Notre Dame take complete com­mand of Philadelphia Stadium's slick, muddy field, but Navy retaliated in the third quarter; capitalizing on breaks and their running game, they pulled in front, 12-7. But no sooner had the scoreboard registered the lead margin, when Lamonica struck a surprised Denny Phillips with a 45-yard touchdown pass, giving Notre Dame the deciding points in a very wet and welcome win. 
Navy kicked off to begin the game, and Irish were progressing steadily downfield until an interception on Navy's 13-yard line ended the drive. The Middies were held, and after the ensuing punt, Notre Dame marched 65 yards for the only score in the first half. The touch­down was set up by Don Hogan's 16-yard burst to Navy's one-yard line. Two plays later, Daryle Lamonica plunged over, and Ed Rutkowski's boot made it 7-0 with 1:13 elapsed in the second quarter. 
John Sai of Navy found ball handling a slippery chore on the kickoff, and a jolting tackle persuaded him to fumble. Notre Dame scooped up the loose ball on the Navy 26-yard line, and a score seemed imminent when a lonesome PhiUips gathered in a 24-yard aerial from La­monica. Unfortunately, a penalty cancelled the 6 points. 
Led by Ed Hoerster and Tom Goberville, the defensive unit was so devastating that Navy gained a paltry 3 yards in the first half, and collected nary a first down or pass completion. 
Navy made up for its offensive void of the first half on the passing of Roger Staubach and the running of Bob Teall in the third quarter. Twice Teall ran a delayed trap 
jiijIwiiu^Mjaami 
for gains of 12 and 19 yards deep into Irish territory. Sai climaxed the offensive plot with a 4-yard touchdown run, but Staubach's two-point denouement was given a twist when Nick Etten and Goberville threw Staubach and his plans into the mud. 
Leading only 7-6, the Irish took the kickoff, and were thereafter drubbed for 12 yards in losses. Lamonica's partially blocked punt wobbled only to the Notre Dame 22-yard line. Fortunately, the gloomy quarter ended on a ray of hope; John Sai fumbled on the Irish one, and Phil­lips recovered. That ray died when Lamonica fumbled on the first play of the fourth quarter. Navy recovered, and Irish chances seemed as bleak and as black as the weather. Staubach merely fiopped over the goal and even though the two-pointer failed again. Navy led 12-7. 
Then came the bounce-back. Navy's kickoff dribbled only as far as the Irish forward wall, and Bill Burns did haKback honors by lumbering to the Middle 45. On the very first play from scrimmage, Lamonica ricocheted a pass off a Navy defender into the eager hands of Phillips who cruised into the end zone. An attempted try at two points was unsuccessful, but the 13-12 advantage was suflHcient. 
Irish defenses held firm, and gave the ball back to the anxious offense. A 73-yard touchdown march was the result, and it was keyed by the hard running of Don Hogan. Frank Budka made his debut as a flanker back at this time, and made a leaping catch of a Lamonica pass on the Navy two. Again Lamonica sliced over, and Rutkowski's PA*!" ended the scoring at Notre Dame 20, Navy 12. 
The game ended in a driving rain, but Irish gasto could hardly be dampened; more like yeast, it billowed. Daryle Lamonica's poise under pressure, Don Hogan's 81 yards in 14 carries, and Bob Lehmann's toughness on defense and offense were but a few of the outstanding factors in the spirited win. 
— Bill Cragg 

December 7, 1962 
WiMHimMmmijj 
1962 College Spor f; 
John McKay COACH OF THE YEAR Southern California 
Jerry Sfovalf 
HALFBACK 
Louisiana Siate 
Pat Richter 

END Bobby Lee Bell Jack Cvercko TACKLE 
GUARD Wisconsin 

LINEMAN OF THE YEAR Northwestern Minnesota 
•.»AiiAet2^££ii:iii,i!.n3-Caijr,ii^^i^:^'iSS.'b^'L^ 

s Editors All-America 
George Saimes FULLBACK BACK OF THE YEAR 
Michigan State 

Terry Baker. HALFBACK Oregon State 
George. Mira 
QUARTERBACK ^iami 
Dave Behrman  Ruf us Guthrie  Jim Dunaway  Hal Bedsole  
CENTER  •  GUARD  TACKLE  END  
Michigan State  > Georgia Tech  Mississippi.  Southern California  

OREGON STATE'S BAKER AND BURKE 
All-America 1962 
by Joe 

SCHOLASTIC'S 1962 All-American se­lections, as chosen by the collegiate sports editors throughout the nation, show the Midwest as the leader in football greats followed closely by schools from the Southern part of the coimtry. 
Southern Cal's John McKay heads this year's list of stars, picking up Coach of the Year laurels. It was Mc­Kay who brought his club from a .500 percentage in 1961 to the national championship this year. It was Mc­Kay who led his Trojans to their first undefeated season since 1932. 
McKay's star player, like that of runner-up coach Milt Bruhn, was an All-American end . . . Trojan star Hal Bedsole, one of two juniors in the All-American ranks. Bedsole combined with use's two great passing quju-­
Ryan 
terbacks, Pete. Beathard and BiU Nel­son, to give %he Trojans a powerful passing attack to supplement their heavy ground game. McKay's squad never won by less than a touchdown though they played strong teams like Washington, Iowa, and of course, Notre Dame. 
Back of the Year should be a sur­prise to no one who follows Notre Dame football. The man in question is the "Golden Greek," George Saimes. A mid-season injury kept Saimes from the Big Ten rushing leadership as he lost the crown by 13 yards to Dave Francis of Ohio State. Saimes gained almost a thousand yards in MSU's nine-game schedule, including more thcin 150 against Notre Dame. 
State's coach Duffy Daugherty has called the 5-10, 186-pound son of a Canton, Ohio, shoemaker, "the com­plete football player." Not only was Saimes MSU rushing leader, but he was also one of their outstanding blockers and tacklers. "Every time they put me in I pretend the next play will be the last of my career. I figure I ought to do the best I can." Saimes has run the last play of his collegiate career and will always be remembered as one of the greatest fullbacks Notre Dame has ever faced. 
Bobby Lee BeU is again an All-American and is this season's Line­man of the Year. It was BeU who rallied his Minnesota teammates to hold Missouri to a scoreless tie and to hold Michigan State, which boasts a 220-yard rushing average per game, to 30 yards on the ground. Though he is light for an All-American tackle, 214­
SECOND TEAM 

E—Hugh Campbell, Wash. St. T—Steve Barnett, Oregon G—John Treadwell, Texas C—Lee Roy Jordan, Ala. G—Dave Watson, Ga. Tech. T—^Tom Nomina, Miami (Ohio) E—Dave Robinson, Penn. St. QB—Billy Lothridge, Ga. Tech. HB—Paul Warfleld, Ohio St. HB—Mel Renfro, Oregon FB—Ray Poage, Texas 
pound Bell makes up in aggressiveness what he lacks in weight. 
First string All-American ends are Pat Richter of Wisconsin and Hal Bed-sole from Southern Cal. Both Richter and Bedsole snapped their schools' pass-receiving records in only two sea­sons of play. The 6-5, 229-pound Wis­consin great piled up nearly two thou­sand yards in pass receptions to easily set a new Badger record. He has been fortunate enough to have had the best in the Big Ten tossing the football, Ron Miller in 1960 and 1961 and Ron VanderKelen this year. 
Bedsole is one of two juniors on this year's squad and promises to outdo Richter for lifetime totals before he finishes his college career. The sudden emergence of Pete Beathard, Bedsole's battery mate, as one of the nation's finest passers has given the 6-5, 225­pound Trojem end a chance to become great after a semi-successful sopho­more year. Bedsole has not let the chance go by. 
Washington State's Hugh Campbell and Penn State's Dave Robinson rate second team berths in this year's se­lections. Though he is not too well 
Football Review 

known outside of the West Coast, Campbell holds several national colle­giate records, including total recep­tions (176), total yards (2,452) and single season receptions (66) in 1960. He played his finest game of 1962 against Washington when he pulled down ten passes for 178 yards and a touchdown. Dave Robinson is one of the few AU-Americans from the East as the 6-5, 229-pound senior helped bring Penn State the Lambert trophy. Vernon Burke of Oregon State and Jim KeUy of Notre Dame round out the AU-American selections. 
Big Bobby Bell of Minnesota domi­nated the first string tackle selections. Jim Dunaway of Mississippi was elected to the other first team tackle spot. BeU looks small compared to 260-pound Dunaway who is consid­ered by pro scouts to be the best line­man in the country. Dunaway's strong play has merited for him the nick­name, "the monster of Ole Miss." 
Steve Barnett of Oregon and Tom 
THIRD TEAM 

E—Jim Kelly, Notre Dame 
T—Scott Appleton, Texas 
G—Ed Budde, Mich. St. 
C—Ray Mansfield, Wash. 
G—Mickey Ording, Oregon T—Carl Eiler, Minn. 
E—^Vernon Burke, Ore. St. 
QB—Billy Moore, Arkansas 
HB—Roger Kochman, Penn. St. 
HB—Dave Hoppman, Iowa St. 
FB—Ben Wilson, U.S.C. 
Nomina of Miami (Ohio) were voted to second team positions. Scott Apple­ton of Texas and Carl EUer of Minne­sota merited third team choice. 
Jack Cverko of Northwestern and Rufus Guthrie of Georgia Tech are the SCHOLASTIC'S Ail-American guards. Both are massive. Guthrie tips the scales at 231 while Cverko registers a not-so-modest 235. Guthrie, easily an All-Southeast Conference guard, led a "Rambling Wreck" line in Tech's 20-9 upset of highly ranked Duke. Cverko is the cornerstone of North-western's line. He was injured in the Indiana game and while he was out, his teammates lost an undefeated sea­son, number one national ranking and the Big Ten title. 
Texas' 202-pound John Treadwell and Georgia Tech's Dave Watson earn second team plaudits. Treadwell is ex­kansas' Danny Brabham on the Texas goal, causing a fumble which the Long­horns recovered to preserve a 7-3 victory. Dave Watson is one of a trio of Georgia Tech AU-Americans. His 221 pounds and aggressive play have garnered for him selection at the right guard spot on the Southeast Conference AH - Conference squad. Michigan State's Ed Budde and Mickey Ording of Oregon merit the third string guard spots. 
Michigan State's 263-pound Dave Behrman edged Alabama's Lee Roy Jordan as first string center. Behrman captured Ail-American honors last year at tackle and guard. When in­juries cropped up in midseason, Behr­man was moved to the center post where he has reigned ever since. Jor­dan, a 207-pound defensive star, was an important factor in the Crimson Tide's low point yield. Washington's Ray Mansfield garnered the third team center spot. 
The battle for first string quarter­back was the closest of the balloting with Miami's George Mira finally get­ting the nod. He opened the season with 248 yards against Pittsburgh, a Miami record. Later in the season Mira snapped this same record with a 288-yard performance against Dick Shiner and Maryland. Georgia Tech's Billy Lothridge garnered the second string spot with Billy Moore of Ar­kansas coming in third. 
Jerry Stovall, LSU's 200-pound halfback, easily took first team plau­dits sharing the halfback honors with Oregon State's fabulous Heisman trophy winner, Terry Baker. Not only can StovaU run well, but he can also kick, is a fine receiver and is amaz­ingly effective on defense. Baker, something of a dark horse in the Heis­man balloting, led the nation in total offense this year with more than 1,000 yards. He can pass with either hand and has raised Oregon's total offense record for two straight years. 
Halfbacks Paul Warfield of Ohio State and Mel Renfro of Oregon com­pose the second team with Roger Kochman of Penn State and Dave Hoppman of Iowa State roimding out the third team. 
Saimes was the nearly unanimous choice at fuUback. Not enough can be said about Saimes, as Joe Kuharich has noted, "He must be the best in the nation." 
The distinction of being second best belongs to Ray Poage of Texas with Ben Wilson of Southern Cal com­pleting the SCHOLASTIC'S 1962 Ail-American selections. 
cellent at the linebacker spot as evi­denced by his clutch tackle of Ar­BACK OF THE YEAR GEORGE SAIMES 
December 7, 1962 
ND 43, PITT 22 
Explosive Attack Overwhelms Pitt 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 10 — In this warm, sunbathed Notre Dame Stadium, a "small" homecoming crowd of 52,215 cheered as a band of Fighting Irish brutally sent the Panthers from Pittsburgh down to defeat, 43-22. The "revitalized"' Notre Dame eleven hit their stride early in the game and romped to their second strjught victory. Finding the field conditions considerably drier than in the previous week's encounter with Navy, the Irish un­leashed a formidable offensive attack, knocking holes in Pitt's forward waU and secondary. 
The victory also brought to light the passing combina­tion of senior Daryle Lamonica to junior end Jim KeUy. Together they sparked the Iiish to the victory while break­ing one record and tying two. Pulling in eleven Lamonica passes for 127 yards, Kellj' established a pass-receiving record, breaking the previous record of eight held by jMonty Stickles. Quarterback Lamonica tossed four touch­dovra passes, tying Angelo Bertelli's old record, while Jim KeUy hauled in three of the four passes to equal aU­pro Jim MutscheUer's twelve-year-old record. The victory 
Avas Notre Dame's second straight in the series. 
Notre Dame took the opening kickoff and rolled 58 yards in 10 plays for their first score. Lamonica keyed the drive with two fourth down passes of 14 and 11 yards to KeUy. Don Hogam, a promising sophomore, carried the "ball the final six yards to break the ice for the Irish. Senior Ed Rutkowski's placement split the uprights at 
10:58 of the first quarter. On Pitt's first series of downs, the stalwart Irish de­fense threw the Panthers for a five-yard loss, and three 
l^otre Dame first downs later, Lamonica and Kelly were pounding at the Panthers' front door. Opportunity came 
•v\ath a five-yard jump pass to Kelly, and Rutkowski's two-pointer made it Notre Dame 15, Pitt 0. 
The Irish defense reached for a bit of glory as they backed the Panthers into a corner and then Clay Stephens recovered a Pitt fumble to set up the third Irish touch­down. Three plays later, halfback Ron Bliey blew the 
game wide open as he swept right end for seven yards 
and another Notre Dame touchdown. 
Pitt was quick to retaliate as quarterback Jim Traficant drove the Panthers 83 yards for six points. In the re­maining two quarters, the offenses pounded away, pro­ducing a seesaw battle of touchdowns. 
Fighting back, the Irish moved once again with the fabulous combination of Lamonica to Kelly. Capitalizing on a blocked Pitt punt by end Tom Goberville, Lamonica rolled out and lofted a pass to Kelly in the end zone. Pitt had a few tricks of their own left. After mixing up several plays, quarterback Traficant called for the double reverse. Halfback Ed Clark responded as he rode the sideline strip 56 yards for a second Pitt tally. Pitt's all-American candidate Paul Martha picked up the two-pointer making the score Notre Dame 29, Pitt 14. 
The Irish fired back with a dazzling 40-yard touchdown pass on the first play after the kickoff. This time the honors went to end Clay Stephens while Rutkowski added the extra point. 
The final Irish drive of 75 yards ended as most of their touchdowns did this day — a 13-yard bomb to end Jim KeUy in the end zone. It was Pitt, though, that applied the finishing touch to this sporting afternoon as Pitt quarterback Mike Mazurek took the kickoff and returned it 93 yards for the final taUy of the day. 
The day wasn't aU Lamonica and Kelly — it was more aU Notre Dame. Lamonica wouldn't have had the time to find KeUy if it hadn't have been for the superb blocking of Ed Hoerster, Bob Lehmann, Jim CarroU, and their co­horts on the offensive line. Pitt's resurgent offense might have gained more than they did had it not been for the sturdy defense which held the Panthers to half the yardage the Irish offense gained. And the powerhouse Notre Dame offense of sophomores Don Hogan, Ron Bliey, and Joe FarreU, and seniors Bill Ahem and Joe Maxwell provided the needed support. True, today there were Lamonica and KeUy; but today, there was also Notre Dame. 
— Jack Gerken 

j£.atfionica . . , ta KelUf 
» :% 
•• » 

f • 
I

t 
•Ky.V 
•^m^:cm 

h^^. V •', 
•..H^I00!*»*, 
ND 21, NORTH CAROLINA 7 
Interceptions Key to Victory 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 17 — Notre Dame won its third straight game today with a come from behind victory over stubborn North Carolina. The Tar Heels, coached by Jim Hickey, silenced Notre Dame's offense in the first half, and grabbed a 7-0 halftime lead following a 35-yard punt by Irish quarterback Daryle Lamonica. The Irish retaliated in the second half scoring three touchdowns, all following interceptions by an alert secondary. The slim crowd of 35,553 saw the Irish amass a 21-7 victory total after Tommy MacDonald and Gerry Gray picked off Junior Edge passes. The attendance, limited by a 38-degree temperature and overcast skies, was the lowest since the 1943 Illinois game. 
The visitors from Chapel Hill capitalized on a break midway in the first period. Lamonica boomed a tremendous punt 58 yards downfield, but an offside penalty nullified his effort and the Irish were forced to punt again from their own end zone. The Tar Heels took over from the Irish 40-yard mark and scored 9 plays later on another break. 
Junior quarterback Junior Edge completed a pass to Bob Lacey on the Irish 28. Then after four running plays moved the ball 11 yards, Edge fired another pass to Lacey. Notre Dame's Gray batted the ball away only to see full­back Ken Willard catch the deflected ball and race to the Irish 5. Two plays later Willard scored and Lacey con­verted ending the scoring for the first half. 
North Carolina limited the Irish to a mere 23 yards rushing in the first half. Lamonica was able to complete only one pass, a 31-yard circus grab by Jim Kelly, due to the hard rushing Carolina line. 
The second-half play was another matter. The pass defense, sparked by Tommy MacDonald's three in­terceptions, tieing Angelo Bertelli's record of eight in a single season, held Edge to only three completions in 14 attempts in the second half compared to seven of eight in the first half. Given more running room by the Irish line, Don Hogan and Joe Farrell rolled up 180 yards, in­cluding two touchdowns by Farrell and a 59-yard sprint by Hogan. 
After an Irish drive stalled on the Tar Heel 24, fleet Tommy MacDonald pilfered an Edge aerial on the Carolina 
42. Hogan and Farrell moved the ball to the 14-yard line and Kelly made a leaping grab of a Lamonica pass on the one. Farrell bulled into the end zone to bring the Irish to within one point. Coach Joe Kuharich chose to go for one point and a tie and Rutkowski obliged by making a perfect conversion — tieing the score. 
MacDonald intercepted his third pass of the game two plays later on the Tar Heel 35, waited wisely for his block­ing to form, and raced to the Carolina eight-yard line. Three plays later Farrell slanted through the left side of Carolina's line from the six and Notre Dame led for the first time in the game. 
Taking a cue from MacDonald, Gray swiped another Edge pass on the Irish three and returned it 25 yards. 
Two plays later, Hogan took a handoff from Lamonica and swept over the middle of the line, reversed his field and went 59 yards before being overhauled from behind by speedster Hank Harden on the four-yard line. La­monica ended the 72-yard march with a one-yard walk into the end zone behind center Ed Hoerster who opened a gaping hole. Rutkowski terminated the scoring with his third straight conversion. -Bob ScJieffing 
December 7, 1962 
msr; 
'• ' -' .>' ^"^^^Z t'^^-^-^S^'" -r'^'h-^"^ 

ND 35, IOWA 12 
Irish Avenge Big Ten Losses 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 24 — Led by the fine quar­terbacking of Daryle Lamonica, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame upset the University of Iowa today by a score of 35-12. Three individual Notre Dame records were broken in a game witnessed by 42,653 fans in 43-degree sunshine. 
Late in the second quarter, defensive halfback Tom MacDonald intercepted his ninth pass of the season. This heist broke the existing record of eight, held by Angelo Bertelli. 
Junior end Jim Kelly broke Irish records for pass receptions in a season and total yardage. By snaring five passes, Kelly brought his season total to 36, breaking the mark of 35 set by Jim Mutscheller in 1950. His present total of 475 ycu-ds snaps the old mark of 442 by Jim Morse in 1956. 
Notre Dame dedicated the final home game to its seniors as the Irish team displayed a consistent offense and a vastly improved defense. Quarterback Daryle Lamonica had one of his finest days as he ran for 85 yards and one touchdown and completed 10 of 19 passes for 144 yards and another score. The senior signal caller completely outplayed his rival. Matt Szykowny. The Hawkeye quarterback found his mark only three of 16 times. 
After an exchange of punts in the first quarter, the Irish started rolling when Lamonica hit Kelly with a bullet pass over center for ten yards and a first down on the Iowa 29. On the next play, sophomore halfback Don Hogan circled left end and, with the aid of blocks by Ed Hoerster and Jim Carroll, scored the first of five Irish touchdowns. Ed Rutkowski's conversion was good and Notre Dame led 7-0 with 8:34 left in the period. 
Iowa marched to the Irish 37 near the end of the first half with its captain and AU-American candidate, Larry Ferguson, meiking most of the gains. But a few plays later, MacDoneild went high in the air to intercept a Szykowny pass and end the Hawkeye drive. 
After the half-time intermission, a rejuvenated Iowa team drove to the Irish 5-yard line. On a fourth and goal situation, Ferguson hurdled right guard for an Iowa touch­down. The conversion failed and Notre Dame still led, 7-6, with 7:53 remaining in the third quarter. 
Then the determined Irish completely dominated the game, driving 71 yards in six plays for their second touch­down. Hogan smashed for 4 and Farrell for 3. Lamonica then hit Kdly for 11 yards. Then Hogcin slipped away from three Iowa defenders for 26 yards to the Hawkeye 
27. Farrell barrelled for 8 over left guard. The climax came when senior haKback Frank Minik swept right end for the final 19 and an Irish score. Rutkowski's conversion was blocked, but the Irish led, 13-6. 
Early in the fourth quarter Notre Dame started mov­ing again. Lamonica sneaked for nine and then hit Clay Stephens for 14 and a first down on the Iowa 27. Daryle then faked a pass, ran down the sidelines, and cut back sharply to the middle of the field, dodging a half-dozen tacklers for the score. Rutkowski's second conversion put the Irish on top, 20-6. 
A pass from Lamonica to Minik for the fourth Notre Dame score dimeixed a 49-yard march in 5 plays. During the drive, Daryle rsm once around end for a 21-yard gain. 
A few plays after Frank Budka came up with Notre Dcune's second interception, the Irish scored again. Senior fullback Bill Ahem slammed over left tackle for the last Irish touchdown. For the conversion attempt, Lamonica pitched to Rutkowski who rolled to his right euid threw to Hogcui in the end zone for a two-point play. 
Lamonica, Hogan, Farrell and company gained a total of 283 yards rushing to the lowans' 110. But it was the Irish defense that looked most impressive. The interior line of George Bednar, Bob Lehmann, Nick Etten, and linebackers Hoerster and Carroll repeatedly stopped the Iowa onslaught. —Rex Lardner 
riT' 

^-J 
f. 1, 
Football Review 
r . 
AP Wirephoto 

ND 0, SOUTHERN CAL 25 
A Disappointing Ending 
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1 — The University of Southern California's football team found its pot of gold 
— a perfect season — right in its own back yard at the Lrf)s Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Coach Johnny McKay's Trojans, claiming the 1962 national football championship, completely outclassed the upset-minded "Fighting Irish" of Notre Dame 25-0 before 81,676 sun-drenched spectators. The Trojan victory snapped a four-game Irish winning streak; the Irish gridders closed the 1962 season with a 5-5 record and the 25-0 loss was the first shutout dealt Notre Dame in 21 games. For Southern California, the victory was one which sent Trojan alumni and fans to the scrap­books to compare this year's invulnerable squad with the great "thunder teams" of the late Howard Jones. 
Excellent blocking, excellent tackling, and an excellent offense — all these ingredients speUed doom for the Irish footballers. There was no doubt that Notre Dame was "up" for the gcime but USC was simply the better team physically. USC's massive line pounded Irish ball carriers all afternoon and efficiently stopped the usually effective running and passing of Irish quarterback Daryle La­monica. On offense, USC devastatingly sent its two human battering rams — fullback Ben Wilson and tailback Willy Brown crashing through Irish defenders. Poor tackling was a prime reason for Notre Dame's defeat. Often a Trojan runner seemed contained, but would trickily break away for extra yeirdage and that all-important first down. Penalties also wrought havoc with Notre Dame's upset designs. The officials penalized the Irish seven times for 63 yards — there were many occasions when the red flag importantly hindered a threatening Irish drive. In fact, USC's first touchdown was aided by an offside penalty. 
After Notre Dame received, showed no gain and punted, the Trojans marched 60 yards in seven plays for the six-pointer. A 34-yard flare pass to WiUy Brown was the key play in this drive. After two smashes by Ben Wilson, a short run by quarterback Pete Beathard, and an offside penalty, the men of Troy struck pay dirt as Ben Wilson stormed over from the one. 
Undaunted, Notre Dame fought back and later ad­vanced the baU into Trojan territory but fuUback Joe Farrell fumbled on the Trojan 22-yard line and USC re­covered. Nine plays later, USC scored again in a drive that featured a flashy 28-yard run by Beathard. Again Wilson cracked over from the one for the touchdown. Irish end Tom Goberville blocked the extra point kick and, at this point, Notre Dame fans hopefully speculated that a concerted Irish effort in the second half might find the Irish edging the Trojans dramatically by a single point, 14-13. 
But such speculations proved to be only dreams. The third quarter was scoreless for both teams. Notre Dame, with its back to the wall after a great punt by the Trojans' Ernie Jones was downed at the one-yard line, managed to fight back to mid-field towards the end of the third quarter, but a penalty halted any further advance. After an exchange of punts, quarterback Bill Nelson directed a 40-yard touchdown drive in eight plays. The clincher came on a 14-yard "threading-the-needle" pass to Fred Hill. The two-point conversion try went awry but with 7:51 remaining in the contest, the jubilant Trojans had "iced down" the game thereby laying an indisputable claim to the national championship. 
Notre Dame fought desperately to hit the scoring column. A Lamonica aerial was intercepted on the Notre Dame 20. Craig Fertig, one of three Trojan quarterbacks for the day, rified a 14-yard pass to sophomore halfback Gary HiU and then, on the ensuing play, ran 6 yards for the touchdown expanding the score to 25-0. The pass for the conversion failed, the scoring had ended, and 53 sec­onds later the game was over. 
— Gary Sahatte 

MacDONALD  
HOERSTER  
HOGAN  
KELLY  

LEHMANN 
LAMONICA 

j^iiU 
ota^ 
BUDKA 

Prospects for '63 
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 
"Wait 'till next year!" is a cliche be the top contenders for the signal often used by fans whose teams have calling job. had not-too-successful seasons. But in Gray, a sure tackier and excellent Notre Dame's case, the cliche fits: pass defender, wiU probably be re­prospects for a successful football sea­placed in the starting defensive back-son in 1963 are excellent, probably the field by Bill Pfeififer, the secondary's best of the Kuharich era. fifth man in 1962. 
At other positions, aill the players The schedule is, if anything, easier. 
who had a significant part in Notre UCLA, Stanford, and Syracuse replace Dame's late-season resurgence will be Oklahoma, Northwestern, and North 
back. 
Carolina. All three 1963 opponents Jim Kelly, greatest pass receiver in should be weaker thcin Oklahoma or Notre Dame history with 41 catches Northwestern, but tougher than North for 524 yards and four touchdowns CarolinsL this year as a junior, leads an experi­But most important, the Irish enced end corps. Others returning in­should have the personnel to match clude Tom Goberville, Clay Stephens, any tesun on the schedule, including John Murray, John Simon, and Jack Big Ten champ Wisconsin — which Snow. 

loses Ail-American end Pat Richter At tackle, George Bednar — aand All-Big Ten quarterback Ron junior who improved vastly this sea­VanderKelen. Only three of Notre son. Gene Penmcin, Dave Humenik, Dame's starting 11-plus-four will be Nick Etten, and Marty Olosky are all missing: center Ed Hoerster, the returnees. And there should be some team's tackle leader with 73; Daryle help coming from the freshmein team, Lamonica, the squad's top passer; and including 260-pound giant Mike defensive star Gerry Gray. 

Webster, from Vancouver, B.C. 
Hoerster developed this season into Starting guards Bob Lehmann and a topnotch blocker and linebacker, Jim Carroll wiU return, along with and should be tough to replace. For­Wayne Allen, Ken Maglicic, and Mike tunately, there are several likely can­DiCarlo. 

didates, including sophomore Norm In the backfidd, sophomore sensa­Nicola — who may be shifted to tion Don Hogan — the team's leading tackle, junior Bill Burns, soph Tom 

ground gainer — will be back, along Kostelnik, and 247-poimd freshman with Joe FarreU — the runner-up to Mike Wadsworth. 
Hogan in the ground gaining depart­
Finding a replacement for La­ment. So should Ron Bliey, barring monica, the only quarterback who saw academic difficulties, and the hoped-much offensive action during the last for return of Paul Costa and Jim half of the season, will be the biggest Snowden could add even more punch personnel problem. Junior Frank to the offense. Budka, a defensive specialist this sea­In the defensive secondcu-y. Tommy son but an outstanding offensive per­MacDonald — who broke the Notre former in 1961; sophomore John Dame single - season interceptions Huarte, who saw a few minutes of mark with nine, elbow-tackier Frank action this year suid looked to be a Budka, and Denny Phillips will all be capable paisser; and soph Tom Longo, back. out with a leg injury this fall; should Just wait 'till next year. 
1962 Final Statisties 
TEAM STATISTICS 

N.D. OPP. 159 POINTS SCORED 192 140 FIRST DOWNS 138 1382 YARDS RUSHING 1760 449 TIMES CARRIED 435 3. 08 RUSHING AVERAGE 4.05 1160 YARDS PASSING 870 195 PASSES ATTEMPTED 146 90 PASSES COMPLETED 67 
.461 COMPLETION PERCENTAGE .452 15 PASSES INTERCEPTED BY 16 166 YARDS INT. RETURNED 75 2542 TOTAL OFFENSE 2630 50 PUNTS 42 
1808 TOTAL YARDS 1438 36.2 AVERAGE 33.8 
11 BALLS LOST ON FUMBLES 17 
SCORING  
Player  TD  FG  PAT  TP  
FarreU  4  0  0  24  
Kelly Lamonica  4 4  0 0  0 0  24 24  
Rutkowski*  .  1  0  17  23  
Hogan**-" Ahem Minik Bliey Phillips Stephens Snow**  ....  3 2 2 1 1 1 0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  2 0 0 0 0 0 2  20 12 12 6 6 6 2  

ND TOTALS . 23 0 21 159 9
OPP. TOTALS 28 18 192 
**Pass for PAT. 
PASSES CAUGHT 

Player No. Yards TD KeUy „. 41 523 Hogan _ 12 146 Stephens 5 93 Minik „ 5 66 Snow 4 46 Murray ™ 3 35 Rutkowski 3 —3 PliiUips _ 2 47 Sherlock 2 39 Pivec 32 
2 Gober\'ille 29 
9 
FarreU 27 Simon 20 Budka 19 Bliey „ 17 Murphy 14 Ahern 9 Gray 5 MacDonald 0 Lind 
PUNTING 

Player No. Yards Avg. Lamonica 49 1789 36.5 Budka 1 19 19.0 
RUSHING 

Wefeome Notre Dame Students • 
DOYLE'S BARBER SHOP 
706 E. Jefferson 
We specialize in flat-tops and Ivy League haircuts. Appointment if desired. AT 7-1447 
DR. N. nZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 
CONTACT LENSES 
Inquiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FIHED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 to 24-Hour Service 
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477 
[•|iiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiaiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiii ["f 
i Remember your i 
I FRIENDS and FAMILY [ 
: with world famous r 
BARTON'S I 
I CONTINENTAL ! I CHOCOLATES ! I ^ I 
r Candy Mailed Daily Anywhere = 
I ^ i 
i Also Your Center For i 
HALLAAARK CARDS, I 1 PARTY SUPPLIES and GIFS |
I & I 
i Yours Exclusively At = I MICHIANA'S NEWEST AND I I MOST BEAUTIFUL STORE | 
I IMPERIAL HOUSE! 
I 113 So. Michigan St. | 
i Downfown South Bend = 
•^^••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••'•••'••••'••"•••••*i*'*'[£l 

Player Hogan Farrell — Bliey Lamonica _ Alicrn Gray Minik Rutkowski Phillips Budka MacDonald Lind Maxwell Huarte — Szot 
Player Bliey Hogan Minik Rutkowski Phillips MacDonald 
Budka Farrell Gray Burns Kelly 
Player Minik Rutkowski Gobenille Bliey Phillips 
TC 90 70 57 74 25 28 22 16 18 12 10 8 3 3 13 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
No. 13 9 2 2 2 
0 
PUNT RETURNS 
No. 6 
 Yards Av5. 454 5.0 278 4.0 167 2.9 145 2.0 97 3.9 94 3.4 61 2.8 52 3.3 38 2.1 21 1.8 14 1.4 13 1.6 9 3.0 —14 —47 
 Yards Avg.  311 23.9 
206 22.9 61 42 ilo 39 
21.0 30 
19.5 20 
15.0 19 10 
 Yards -Avg.  41 6.8 28 14.0 17 17.0 10 5.0 2.7 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

TACKLES: 
Hoerster 73; Lehmann 61; Carroll 58; Budka 51; Gray 49; Bednar 45; Pfeiffer 39; Maglicic 35; Mac­Donald and Nicola 29; Goberville 25; Phillips 23; Penman 22; Kelly and Allen 21; Burns 19; Rut­kowski, 17; Burke, Hogan and Olosky 15; DiCarlo, Pivec and Stephens 14; Etten and Murphy 13; Minik 12; Hiunenik 11; Murray and Simon 10; Ahern 9; Farrell 6; Sherlock 5; Lamonica 3; Dennery and O'Hara 1. 
P.ASSES BROKEN UP: Budka 8; MacDonald 5; Phillips 4; Gray and Pfeiffer 2; Bums, Gober\'iIIe, Hoerster, Kelly, La­monica and Rutkowski 1. 
OPPONENTS' FUMBLES RECOVERED: 
Carroll, Pfeiffer, Phillips, Pivec and Stephens 2; Gray, Hoerster, Kelly, Lehmann, Minik, ^^urray 
and Simon 1. 
BLOCKED KICKS: 
Goberville 2; Lehmann 1. 
PASSES INTERCEPTED 

Player No. MacDonald 9 Gray 9 Alurphy 1 Snow 1 Budka 1 Lamonica 1 
PASSING 
 Yards TD 81 0 23 0 25 0 23 0 10 0 4 0 

Player  Att.  
Lamonica  128  
Szot  45  
Huarte  8  
Budka  ..  9  
Rutkowski  2  
Rascher  3  

a guaranteed gift 
Sure to please or we will exchange it for another from our stock. 
Notre Dame 
BOOK STORE 
k
I 
Comp. Int. Yards TD Pet. 64 7 821 6 .500 18 6 244 1 .400 4 
0 38 0 .500 3 25 0 ?'? 
2 
0 20 0 .500 
1 
0 12 0 .333 
1 

I ii 
I Sent out your Christmas cards yet? 
I
f
f
f 

i
t 

i
f 

i
I

I NOW, >IT SPfCML QUANTITY PRICES
I
I 

BUY THEM NOW —ONLY 18 MAILING DAYS LEFT BEFORE CHRISTMAS i
f

f i 
f i
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
i
i 

p-I 
.a 
Neither has ''shaved" in a month! 
I '**^"^.c...xr.ccinw>zs$(^
No kidding. As far as the guy on the right is able, it's just like ro///ngf your whiskers off. 
concerned, he stopped shaving a month ago, P.S. The Lektronic II is the only recharge­started rolling his whiskers off with the new able electric that runs with or without a cord. REMINGTON® LEKTRONIC* II Shaver. Use it cordless anywhere you want (or with 
• What's the secret? Remington's exclusive the cord from any 110-volt AC outlet). roller combs. They roll skin down for comfort. Seethe new Remington Lektronic 11 Shaver Roll whiskers up for closeness. So comfort-at your college bookstore. 
"LEKTBONIC IS a trademark of SDerry Rand Cornoration 
CONOUEnNG 

Nero plays and the crtics rave on! ".. . all the bite of a very dry martini," High Fidelity. "Tinseled, quick-silvery arrangements. "Time."AII coolness and color," Life. His newest. The Colorful Peter Nero, is a kaleidoscopic trip from "Journey to Red Rocks," on through thespectrumtoa plush "Deep Purple." 
In Living Stereo, Monaural and Tape 
RCA VICTOR 
KOSThe most trusted name in sound 
Congratulations to 
ICE SKATES $9.95 up 
• 
SKATE GUARDS 
Reco Sporting Goods 
113 N. Main St. 
Next to Oliver Hotel 
A Big Man on Any Campus! 

JOHNHY III
NASH 

I 
THE OUTSTANDING YOUNG SINGING TALENT WHO HAS TAKEN AMERICA'S COLLEGES BY STORM!!!! 
Better than any Johnny you can name (Ray, Mathis, et. al.; -NY Journal-American 
An absolute standout! Ex­actly what one desires in a popular singer! -VARIETY** 

NOW MAKING HIS FIRST CONCERT TOUR OF THE NATION'S CAMPUSES IN A PROGRAM OF POPULAR, FOLK AND SPIRITUAL MUSIC. i -• 
Attention Campus Organizations! A LIIMITED NUMBER OF DATES ARE AVAILABLE IN YOUR TERRITORY! 
For further information, write: 
COLLEGE SERVICE DIVISION WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY, Inc. 

s. -.
1740 Broadway, New York 19,N.y. 

1962 FIGHTING IRISH 
and especially 
A  GREAT  GROUP 
John  Antongiovanni  Jim Carroll  
John Ataniian  Vince Dennery  
Frank Billy  Joe Farrell  
Kon Bliey  Jim Harnisch  
Sandy Bonvechio  Don Hogan  
Jim Brocke  John Huarte  

 OF SOPHOMORES 
Tom Kostelnik Tom Longo Ken Maglicic Vince Mattera Norm Nicola Gene Penman Jim Kakers John Kuel John Selzer Jack Snow Bob Telfer Gerry Tubinis 
SOPHOMORE CLASS OF '65 
\ '.'.'• 
41

{congratulations to ... 
1962 FIGHTING IRISH 
and especially 
A FINE GROUP OF SENIORS 
Bill Ahern  Ed Hoerster  Daryle Lamonica  Dennis Murphy  John Slafkosky  
Brian Boulac  Dan Kolasinski  Mike Lind  Charlie O'Hara  Harold Vogel  
Ed Burke  Steve Kolski  Joe MaxH'ell  Ed Rutkowsld  Greg Wood  
Gerard Gray  Bill Kutza\itch  Frank Minik  Jim Sherlock  

Who gove their all through four rugged years 
SENIOR CLASS OF '63 
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE 
THE MORRIS INN 
"on the campus" 
92 Rooms 92 Baths 
All Outside Rooms Completely Air-Conditloned Indiana's Rnest 
•
 TERRACE DINING ROOM • COCKTAIL LOUNGE CIRCULATING ICE WATER 

•
 PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS • GOLF PRIVILEGES TV AND RADIO IN EVERY ROOM 

•
 BEAUTIFUL PATIO LARGE PARKING AREA Excellent fadliries for Banquets, Dinners, 


JjeUcious ^ooa LDeti^hifuL CDrinks
Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
Prompt Attention Will Be Given Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends. 
Owned and OpenriMi by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager 
42 Football Review 
P!^?3^^5533^5?T i5'r--?=-i.-Zi,. saPHL.-^<wff »jtvau • ^.fSf iagr!Qrcs'gyjtfrugw»ra^r^ittya-?qa.»raai5^^ 
The Huddle 
Best Wishes to 1962 Notre Dame Football Squad 
, , • . STOP at the HUDDLE • • , , for that little snack between classes 
Announcmg 
LOVE IS LIFE PAPERBACKS 
Francois Dantec; $5.00 

BEOWULF CRITICISM $2.25 
Discusses frankly and reverently married love and 
Edited by Lewis E. Nicholson
responsibility from the Catholic married couple's point of view. 
THE ENGLISH CHURCH IN THE FOURTEENTH UNITY AND REFORM: Selected Writings CENTURY $1.95 
W. A. Pantin
of Nicholas de Cuso 

Rev. John Patrick Dolan, G.S.C., ed.; $6.50 
THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS $1.95 
Historical study of pre-Reformation bishop who ad­
William Rose Edition
vocated lay participation in church, ecumenical unity, cultivation of intellect for aU classes. 
A MIRROR FOR FOOLS $1.95 
Translated by J. H. Mozley
CHILE AND THE UNITED STATES, 1880-1962 THE VICTORIAN AGE IN LITERATURE $1.75 
Fredrick B. Pike; $7.50 G. K. Chesterton The basis of United States-Latin American tension is nowhere so thoroughly analyzed as in CHILE AND JOHN DOOLEY: CONFEDERATE SOLDIER $1.95 THE UNITED STATES, 1880-1962. Edited by Joseph T. Durkin, S.J. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
WARMTH WITHOUT WEIGHT 
If you are tired lugging a heavy Jacket, this is the answer to your problem. The Dacron polyester inter­lining is the secret that makes this Jacket unbe­lievably light and yet warm. The zipper fastening just inside the front panel says "No" to winter's cold winds. With detachable hood for com- C4||Q5 plete coverage! Priced at 
^19' 
USE YOUR 30-DAY OR EXTENDED PAY ACCOUNT 
MM 
Michaels & Mann 
inc. 
1963 Sehedale 
Sept. 28—WISCONSIN at Notre Dame 

Coach Milt Bruhn loses stars Pat Richter and Ron VanderKelen, but most of his Big Ten Championship squad returns. 
Oct. 5—PURDUE at Lafayette 
Ron DiGravio, Charlie King, and Gene Donaldson will have another tough Boilermaker line to help them try for two in a row over the Irish. 
Oct. 12—SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA at Notre Dame 
Another great Trojan-Irish battle is forecast. Pete Beathard and Willie Brown will lead Johnny McKay's eleven. 
Oct. 19—UCLA at Notre Dame 
In the second of three strciight games with West Coast clubs, the Bruins will have a young, but sea­soned squad. 
Oct. 26—STANFORD at Palo Alto 
The Indians are hungry after many lean years and could be a surprise on the Coast. 
Nov. 2—NAVY at Notre Dame 
Roger Staubach heads the returnees as the Middies seek revenge. 
Nov. 9—PinSBURGH at Notre Dame 
An experienced Panther unit will be paced by All-American candidate Rick Leeson. 
Nov. 16—MICHIGAN STATE at East Lansing 
George Saimes is gone. Thus the Spartans will again be playing with eleven, rather than ten, mere mortals. Sherman Lewis and Dewey Lincoln, Saimes' running mates, return. 
Nov. 23—IOWA at Iowa City 
Jerry Burns' Hawkeyes, minus Larry Ferguson and Matt Szykowny, will be out to avenge this yeeur's 35-12 humili­ation by the Irish. 
Nov. 28—SYRACUSE at New York City 
A great way to end the season: a Thanksgiving Day grudge battle with the Orangemen in Yankee Stadium. 
Football Review 
Have The South Bend Tribune Delivered to Your Door 
Keep up with the activities of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, as well as national and international news. The nation's top rated colum­
nists and features. 

Daily and Sunday 50c a Week 
Order from your 

Campus Representative: 
Alumni, Sorin and Walsh Halls Frank Casper, Dillon Hall Room 164, Ph. Dillon Ext. 630 
Fisher, Pangborn and Dillon Halls Ray Wherley, Dillon Hall Room 289, Ph. Dillon EM. 631 
Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and Howard Halls Frank LaNasa, Lyons Hall Room 309. Ph. Lyons E\l. 457 
Breen Phillips, Farley, Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls Car)' J(mes. Zahm Hall Room 222, Ph. Zahm E\l. 581 

Keenan, Stanford and St. Edwards Halls Roger Aiello, Keenan Hall Room 235, Ph. Keenan Ext. 613 In Charge of The Tribune's Campus Distribution Jerry Aspito, Phone CE 2-8567 Also On Sale Daily and Sundays at 
NOTRE DAME DINING HALL Huddle Morris Inn 
NOTICE! 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT 
ROMAN INN 
CORNER OF NOTRE DAME & SOUTH BEND AVENUES 
"On the Bus Une" 
— DELICIOUS FOOD — 
if Hungarian :Ar German 
if American if Italian 
DANCING DOWNSTAIRS 
rOU* HOSTESS 
MISS "COBY" 
Manager 
Private Room Available for Private Parties: For Arrangements Call CE 3-0480 
DOING IT THE HARD WAY bvh 
yhopr 

(GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!) 
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH 
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with 
FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one 
rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair 
tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand­
,® somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover 
FITCH 
SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. 
LEADING MAN'S 
Keep your hair and scalp SHAMPOO really clean, dandrufT-free! • • 
December 7, 1962 
INSURE YOUR 1963 FOOTBALL REVIEW ORDER NOW! 
Since only a limited nimiber of Reviews are printed each year, it is advised that you make your order early. Send your name and address and 50c for each additional year that you want the Football Review to: Football Review. Scholastic. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
the fourth dimension: TIME 
.. . still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation—and surprise. 
SEPT. 5.1752. NEVER HAPPENED!... Nor did any date from Sept. 3 to 13, at least in England and the American Colonies. Wliy? Ttie King decreed that these days would be skipped to correct a discrepancy between the Old English calendar and the newly adopted Gregorian calendar. This left puzzled Englishmen and colonists with one 19-day month and a 355-day year. 
THE HAMSTER'S BUILT-IN "CON­TINUOUS CLOCK"...enables him to maintain his daily activities of eating and sleeping without the usual stimuli of light and dark­ness. He lives on exactly the same schedule even in total darkness. 
Creator of the World's Hrst Electric Watch 

IT TAKES TIME TO MAKE TIME. Hamilton's ex­tremely precise version of a timepiece takes from 6 to 9 months to produce. Half of the more than 2000 produc> tion steps are quality inspections which as­sure Hamilton accuracy. 
Are you a person who likes to stand out? A Hamilton is both attractive and distinctive, a touch of excellent taste that you can wear every hour of a lifetime. They start as low as $35. Ask your favorite gift-giver. Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa. 
Have The South Bend Tribune Delivered to Your Door 
Keep up with the activities of Notre Dame and St. Marys, as well as national and international news. The nation's top rated colum­
nists and features. 
Daily and Sunday 50c a Week 
Order from your Campus Representative: 
Alumni. Surin am! Walsh Halls Frank Gasper. Dillon Hall Ruom 164. Ph. Dillon Ext. 6:{() 
Fisher. Pangborn and Dillon Halls Ray Wherley. Dillon Hall R«>om 289. Ph. Dillon E\t. 631 
Lvons. Morrissev, Radin and 
Howard Halls Frank LaNasa. L\»ns Hall Room ;{09. Ph. Lwms E\l. 1.57 
Rreen Phillips. Farlev. Zahni and Cavanaugh Halls Car>' Jones. Zahm Hall Room 222. Ph. Zahm E\l. .581 
keenan. Stanford and SI. EdHards Halls R(»ger Aiello. keenan Hall Room 23.S. Ph. keenan E\l. 613 In Charge of The Tribune's Campus Distribution Jerry Aspilo. Phone CE 2-8567 Also On Sale Daily and Sundays at NOTRE DAME DINING HALL Huddle Morris Inn 
Freshman Team 
"They're a small group, but as fine 

as any I've ever worked with," said 
Coach Hugh Devore of his 42-man 
freshman football team. "K 12 or 15 
of our boys can help the varsity next 
year, we'll be satisfied." 
Devore rated these linemen the best at their positions as practice drew to a close: ends Tom Talaga (230, Chi­cago, HI.), Harry Long (189, La-Grange, HI.), and Ken Ivan (185, Mas­sillon, O.); tackles Mike Webster (260, Vancouver, B.C.), Tom Sullivan (237, Oklahoma City, Okla.), and Herb Seymour (265, Detroit, Mich.), the squad's biggest man; guards Pete Thornton (213, Portland, Me.), Mike Sheehan (230, San Antonio, Tex.), and Larry Hribal (225, Carmichaels, Pa.); and center Mike Wadsworth (247, Toronto, Ont.). 
Among the top freshman backs named by Devore were quarterback Dick Sauget (205, Belleville, 111.); halfbacks Bill Wolski (202, Muskegon, Mich.), Nick Eddy (194, Tracy, Calif.), Pete Andreotti (182, Chicago, HI.), and Arunas Vasys (200, Cicero, HI.); and fullbacks Pete Duranko (220, Johnstown, Pa.), and Allan Loboy (195, Park Ridge, HI.). 
Other members of the team, which drilled under coaches Devore and John Murphy and junior Pat KeneaUy, in­clude: 
Ends—^Brian O'Shaughnessy, Farm­ington, Mich.; Bob Schenkelberg, Cleveland; and Phil Sheridan, Ruth­erford, N.J. 
Tackles — Bob Meeker, Akron, O.; and John Reisert, Hempstead, N.Y. 
Guards — Jim Barra, Wyonissing, Pa.; John Cavan, Needham, Mass.; Neal Gardner, Cincinnati; Bob Ker­rigan, Manchester, N.H.; Mike Krach, Fairfield, Conn.; and Dick Stuedle, Louisville. 
Centers — Ben Martorano, Chica­go; and Mike Carroll, Roanoke, Va. 
Quarterbacks — Dan McGinn, Omaha; Tom Myszewski, Milwaukee; and Bill Zloch, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
Halfbacks — Larry Allen, Kala­mazoo, Mich.; Denny Conway, Sioux City, la.; Alex Carlo, Tiffin, O.; Jim Hughes, Minneapolis, Minn.; Larry Mauch, Belleville, HI.; Bob Merkle, Brandywine, Md.; and John Reding, Madison, Wis. 
Fullbacks — Ed Seymour, Detroit; and Jim Smith, Columbia, Pa. 
FARLEY HALL wishes fo congrafuMe fhe FOOTBALL TEAM OF 1962 
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE 
New "wetter-than-water" action melts beard's tough, ness—in seconds. Remarkable new "wetter-than-water" action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efiSciency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard's toughness like hot towels and massage—m seconds. 
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of ami-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave... fastest, cleanest—a/irf most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00. 
« i-i U l-TO rvi 
December 7, 1962 For Unusual Gifts in 
•
 LUGGAGE 

•
 HANDBAGS 

•
 LEATHER GOODS 

•
 BRIEF CASES 


UBRIRV u d 

• GIFTS 
BOOK SHOP 

HANS/^I NTSSCM 
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
A Non-Pro fit Organization Phone: CE 2-5881 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
now offering 
Genius ^vK 
An inwords^-­Exclusive Columbia 
music Q0 
Special Products 
Record 

FOR ONLY $ 
with the purchase of any book from our new 
DOUBLEDAYKS 
For your reading pleasure—we have a wide variety of Double­day books in every price range. And for your listening pleas­ure, as a special bonus—this magnificent new album in which 
DYLAN THOMAS reads his own works JOHN GIELGUO reads Shakespeare LEONARD BERNSTEIN plays Copland ...and DAVE BRUBECK—I'm in a Dancing Mood ...and much more on this unique 12" Hi-Fi 33V& RPM record—for a limited time only 
COME IN TODAY... 
and build a nest egg of knowledge from our new Ooubleday Personal Bookshelf. 
Behind the Scenes 
As a million-dollar business, Notre 
Dame football requires administrative 
personnel in much the same way as a 
large corporation. Among the key 
figures behind the scenes: 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, executive 
vice-president of the University and 
chairman of the athletic control board, 
has over-all charge of the athletic pro­
gram and coordinates athletics and 
academics. 
Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause 
is responsible for scheduling aU op­
ponents, as much as five and six years 
in advance. 
Herb Jones, as business manager of 
athletics, handles all financial mat­
ters, and is responsible for the upkeep 
of the stadium and away-game travel 
arrangements. 
Ticket men Bob Cahill and Len 
Kahler tackle the job of deciding who 
gets which seat. 
Trainer Gene Paszkiet is responsible for the physical well-being of the Irish. 
Charlie Callahan, as director of sports publicity, has been responsible since 1946 for the promotion of Notre Dame football. He is assisted this year by secretary Mary McCarthy, and student assistants Frank Zirille, John Hutton, and Tom Doty. 
Among the functions of the sports publicity department are publishing the Football Dope Book, furnishing pictures and stories to each gridder's home-town paper, releasing regular re­ports to the major wire services, and accommodating visiting writers, broad­casters, and cameramen before and during home football games. 
Spirit 
Each season, three groups give emphasis and direction to the spirit which traditionally accompanies Notre Dame football. 
The cheerleaders direct the vocal support of the Irish, both at Friday night pep rallies and Saturday games. This year's captain is senior Bob Maturi; members of the squad are juniors Fred Heroman, Pete Fischer, and Bill Meeker, and sophomores Mike Ghelardi and Tom Kahl. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish, 120 strong, gave their traditionally fine performances at home games, and in addition made the Northwestern and Navy trips to support the team. Band Director Robert O'Brien is assisted by James Fleischer; drum major is "Dutch" Heil, and band president is Vince Massa. 
Adding color to the half-time shows was the card section of 1380 Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen, which performed such stunts as the tradi­tional shamrock, the block ND, and a quickly flashed "Irish." 
\0, Plan now for your 
"^BERMUDA 
College Week 1963 bigger, busier, better than ever! 
•
 Informal welcoming dance to start the fun. 

•
 College Day at the Beach . . . the biggest beach party of the year. 

•
 All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon. Calypso music. Gombey Dancers. 

•
 Round Robin Tennis Tournament. 

•
 College Talent Revue. 

•
 Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests. 

•
 Barbecue Luncheon. 

•
 Sightseeing. 

•
 Special Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE 


The BERMUDA 
Trade Development Board «20 Fifth Av«., N«w Yerfc 20, N.Y. 
Notre Dome Bookstore 

It's greasy, by George! But Vitalis with V-7 keeps your hair neat all day without grease. |V Vhabs Naturally. V-7® \s the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® iJV^ ^ with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, j|^^= * keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it today! ^ 
"STUDENTAIRE" serves the 
SCI VCi MIC ^^ 
COLLEGE S TUDENT C^clttMVeL! 
See Your Man and Ours 
CAMPUS 
STUDENTAIRE 
jeuUHOftn 
TRAVEL, INC. 

241 Badin Hall 
ihWt 
CHICAGO, ILL 

PHONE CENTRAL 2—1797 
\M // 
actf w 
For ITour Cfcrisfmas Gifts 
FINE JEWELRY • HNE SERVICE FAIR PRICES 
DIAMONDS 
Keepsake • Artcarved • Orange Blossom 
WATCHES 
Omega • Bolex * Longines • Wittnauer Patek PhiUipe 
14K GOLD JEWELRY 
Chazms • Bracelets • Pendants • Crosses Pins * Cultured Pearls 
FASHION JEWELRY 

Trifari • Monet • Eisenberg • Siamese Sterling and Gold Filled Charms 
CREDIT (WITH NO INTEREST) AND UYAWAY—AVAIIABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN 
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M. 
I.J E W E I. E K S 
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 
n. ^<f*"*>, 
••/•;i 
i \ 
1 
r 
/mi 

;^ 4:^ 
^XA 

EVEEY MAN'S CHEEKLEADEE 
Sportsman or spectator, you'll cheer for the "Gordon Dover Club" Shirt. Softly rolled button-down medium-point collar is teamed with a 
center plait in back and button on back of collar. Perfect fit results from years of Arrow tailoring know-how. Comfortable "Sanforized" cotton Oxford cloth comes in this fall's leading solid shirt colors. $5.00. 
FOUNDED I8SI 
GOOD FIT, GOOD FEEL, GOOD TASTE 
The man who wants all three wants the Arrow ^'Gordon Dover Club." It is traditionally styled witii softly rolled button-down collar, placket front and plait in back. Expert tailoring is geared to fit the active college man. ''Sanforized" cotton Oxford spells day-long comfort. 
•5.00 

GILBERT'S 
Football Review 

IDEAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMilS 
Twin Magazines! 
Oisfinct . . . but related 
CATHOLIC BOY CATHOLIC MISS 
Published af Notre Dome by the Holy Cross Fathers 
48 
EACH IMAGAZINE pages chocic full of sports, 
adventure, comics, stories, hobbies and Catholic inspiration. 
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.00 a year! 
And here are your handy subscription forms: 
CATHOLIC BOY n 1 year, $3.00 n 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana D 3 years, $7.00 

Dear Fathers: 
Please send CATHOLIC BOY to: 
Name 
Street and Number City Zone State 
• Send Gift card to read from: 
Your Name Your Address 

CATHOLIC MISS n 1 year, $3.00 • 2 years, $5.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
n 3 years, $7.00 Dear Fathers: 
Please send CATHOLIC MISS to: Name Street and Number City Zone State 
Q Send Gift card to read from: Your Name Your Address 
MSS-C 

H??E:. ?E:V ^--VJ^ J CSC KJLV CR053 HOUSE '^ It0IRS DA^S IHD 
^  ^  - ^* '  ^ . •!%.v  
k&«<  «»  .-^•4^.1  
J.-^  M'i  
,  ..^^'' i  ^  TaAre a puff...it's Springtime/  
u?:^ir . "ISi?"^  
BfVS  l*lgl  ^  ^  ^i  '[^"^^^  

^^rt^^Sni^^f e Saleiii cigaee^^|c)kas,^prir>gHme refreshes you, leml^PHlJspecial softness refreshes your taste. 
mmm. 

^few^^iSi" Jr^ •' w CreotrdByR J ^cy*olA Jo^cco Compan 
^^^'^jiisgaa 
&=•: •,-£,"i-^ 









