Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 36 Issue 14 13 December 1902 


NOTRI DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre, Dime,"December J3, 1902. 

Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University. 
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind. 
TeJtns, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame,Indiana. 
The Board of Editors. 

PATRICK J. MACDONOUGH, 1903. FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, Ig02 H. EWING BROWN, I902 ROBERT J. SWEENY, I903 CHARLES A. GOR.MAN, I903 BYRON V. KANALEY, I904 FRANCIS J. BARRY, I903 ROBERT E. HANLEY, I903 HERBERT MEDCALF, I903 EDAVARD F. QUIGLEY, I903 ROBERT E. LYNCH, I903 FRANCIS .MCKEEVER, I903 THO.MAS D. LYONS, I904 

G. A. FARABAUGH, I904 J. PATRICK O'REILLY, I905 
CHARLES L. O DONNELL, I905 

—Christmas, with all its hallowed associa­tions, will soon be here. Vacation begins on December 20, but in the intervening time we have some serious work to do. The bi-monthly examinations- are set for next Thursday and 
. Friday, and if we would not mar the joys that are to follow, we should leave nothing undone to obtain' a creditable per centum. We shall have finished these exercises on Friday, and then good-bye to books and trouble until January 5, when studies are resumed. But if we have less to do with books during vacation we probably shall have more to do with men, and it behooves us that our neighbours do not suffer through our example. What a golden privilege it is to spend Christmas at home, in that sacred spot with the kith and kin we love. We should appreciate the blessing, and by little acts of self-sacrifice and kindness make our stay a miniature of Christ's life here on earth. Self-denial and kindness were His striking characteristics. Before we go, however, a word from the SCHOLASTIC: TO you, boys, with whose life at college our own is so pleasurably interwoven; to our instructors, whose ability and painstaking have brought us to higher 
levels; and to the religious of Holy Cross whose example and devotion to duty have so much to do in bettering our lives, we extend the season's heartiest greeting. May all expe­rience as fully as may be the significance of the Divine message: 
GLORY TO GOD IN THE HIGHEST AND' ON EARTH PEACE TO MEN OF GOOD WILL. 

Our Gallant Lads. 
n
Now that the bumps and bruises, the brill­iant tackles, and the long hours of training that went to make up the football season of '02 are at an end, the SCHOLASTIC feels obliged to make a short review of the work done, and to give each man who contributed his share to make this year's team successful, his due share of credit. The-SCHOLASTIC also feels honored in being able to present the picture of our plucky athletes in this issue. 
The Varsity of this season, despite innu­merable ob­stacles, was a success. Han­dicapped early in the season by the absence of a coach; with a squad of " green " men—but few of last year's team having reported—to contend with, and with other things to fight against, the prospects for an eleven fit to cope with the teams sched­uled, were very disappointing. Indeed, they were gloomy enough to dis­

courage any­one; but Captain Salmon, assisted by the few regulars that were on the ground, entered into the work with the spirit that has always been characteristic of Notre Dame's sons, and in an incredibly short space of time, a squad was at practice. Then the management secured the services of James Farragher, our crack tackle of last year, to coach. "Jim" immediately took charge, and aided by Salmon and Doar, he performed wonders considering the material. Games were lost, it is true, but the memory of the splendid upt-hill fight made by our gallant lads in those 
MANAGER DALEY. 


a^OTRE DAME 
CAPTAIN SALMON. 

few games, laboring, as they were, against almost overwhelming odds, still lives within the breasts of the rooters, and drew favorable comment from almost every paper in the country. The most glorious achievement, however, was the retention of the State Cham­pionship. Indiana was easily defeated early in the season, and then our fellows settled down to prepare for the final struggle with Purdue on Thanksgiving Day. Purdue had every advantage that day; but our plucky band went into the contest determined to cling to the banner at all costs, and cling they did, It was the hardest and most fiercely contested game ever played in this State, and though Purdue played a brilliant game they were unable to wrest the championship from our hands. Taking all things into consideration, the showing made this season is one that we may' well feel proud of. Too much praise can not be given to the gentlemen' of the Varsity and all connected with them. And now a few words about the men composing the team: 
LOUIS J. SALMON (Capt. and FuU-Back). 
Perhaps the niost brilliant player Notre Dame has ever had is our captain and full­back, L. J. Salmon. Salmon is one of the wonders of the football world. His line buck­ing and punting this season were phenomenal. His' work against the Champion Michigan team attracted the attention of every coach 
SCHOJLASTIC. 

and critic in the country, and they,were unanimous in declaring his playing marvellous. The Chicago Daily News picks him for half back on the All-Western Eleven, an honour which is denied him by the other papers because Notre Dame is not a member of the "big nine." In speaking of Salmon, X.\\& News says: " His ability to buck the line is something not seen in every football. In, the game against Michigan, this player by the most indomitable perseverance carried the ball from Notre Dame's goal line far into Michigan territory. Man after man tackled him, but he shook off all the Wolverine stars." Salmon is twenty two years of age, weighs 165 pounds and is five feet nine and a* half inches. 
J.AMES L. DoAR (Half Back). The coolest, headiest, and most consistent player on the team is our star half-back, James 
L. Doar. No better defensive player has ever donned a football suit, while in carrying the ball and also in forming interference, "Jim " has but few equals. Aside from his brilliant playing, Jim's knowledge of football makes him a very valuable man. He was of great assistance to Farragher and Salmon in pointing out the weaknesses of the men, and gave them many good pointers. Doar is but twenty-one years of age, is six feet one and a half inches in height and weighs 170 pounds. 
HEXRY J. MCGLEW (Quarter). 
McGlew's abilities are well known to the rooters. He is the pluckiest and most -deter­mined player Notre Dame has ever had. At quarter he has a record of which any man in the country might well feel proud. During the past two seasons he has not made a single fumble, although a large number of the games have been played on fields so sloppy that to pass through without fumbling seemed almost miraculous, but McGlew passed through with a clean record. His interfering, running back punts and tackling are also marvel­lous, and make him one of the best all-around men on the team. Mac is twenty years of age, tips the scales at 156 pounds and is five feet seven and a half inches in height. 
DOMINICK O'MALLEY (Centre). 
The weakest part of the team this year was the line, but in centre position O'Malley proved to be a tower of strength, and was, in fact, the mainstay of the team. O'Malley possesses all the requisites for a good centre. He has accuracy and speed in passing the ball, is [quick in following the plays, and is 
nO.MINICK K. O'MALLEY. 

also an exceptionally good tackier. In the Michigan game he outplayed the famous Gregory, and was a large factor-in the splendid showing made in that game. O'Malley is the largest man on the team. He weighs 202 pounds, is six. feet one and a half inches high and is twenty-four years old. 
FRANCI.S J. LoNERGAx (End). 

"Happy" is a strong offensive player, and in carrying the ball did brilliant work. His best game of the season was against Purdue. In that game he did some clever tackling, but the condition of the field prevented his usual long runs. He is twenty years of age, stands five feet eleven inches in height, and weighs 165 pounds. 
GEORGE NYERE (End). 

Nyere was one of the mainstays of the team, and played good consistent football all season. He is very fast in getting down the field on punts, and with "Happy" at the other end generally managed to bring down his man. His ability to dodge made him a very hard man to tackle. He is also a good defensive player and a hard and sure tackier. N3'ere is five feet eleven inches in height, weighs 165 pounds and is twenty years of age., 
J. E. GiLLEN (Gaard). Gillen was unfortunate this season, receiving a sprained ankle which kept hind out of the 
majority of the games. He played a splendid game against both Michigan and O. M. U. 

SCHOLASTIC 

Nacc is a very hard man to handle at guard. He is fwenty-three years of age, weighs 185 pounds and is five feet six and a half inches in height. 
HARVEY E. KIRBV (Half-Back). 
Kirby was out of condition all season, taking part in but one or two games.- Had he been in shape, he would no doubt have added greatly to the strength of the team. He is six feet in height, weighs 170 pounds and is twenty years old. 
JOSEPH J. CULLINAN (Tackle). 
This is CuUinan's first year at tackle. He is not a heavy man, but his aggressiveness and speed more than make up for his lack of beef. He is the best man in the line at breaking up plays, and was never found shirking. Another strong point Joe has is in carrying the ball, gaining many yards for the Gold and Blue. Joe is twenty-two years old, is five feet ten inches in height and weighs 175 pounds. 
E. MCDERMOTT (Half-Back.) 
McDermott is'one of the. most promising of the new men of this year's squad. He is strong on interference, a good, nervy tackier, and will, no doubt, become a valuable man. He is eighteen years of age, weighs 165 pounds and is five feet nine and a half inches in height. 
ARTHUR STEINER (Tackle and Guard). Steiner played at guard early in the season, 
JAMES L. DOAR. 
< 

5 
O 
to 
but during the latter part he was shifted to captain were in a dilemma as to whom to tackle because of his aggressiveness. His tack­put in his place, the versatile Shaughnessy ling was one of the features of the Michigan appeared upon the scene, and relieved their game. He is also a first year man who gives troubles. A good tackier, fast in running great promise, being nervy, and also a steady, back punts, an accurate passer, and, above all, conscientious player. He weighs 167 pounds, aggressive, Shaughnessy filled in splendidly is twenty-one years of age, and stands five at quarter. His running back of punts was one feet eight inches in height. of the features of the Michigan game. The longest run' of that memorable game is also 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER (Tackle). chalked up to his credit. During the Indiana 
Fansler is one of the most conscientious game his shoulder was dislocated, and this 
players on the team. Last year he was a kept him out of the game the rest of the 
member of the "scrubs," but by his persever­. season. He is twenty-one years of age, weighs 
ance he won himself a place on this year's 170.pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches in. height. 
team. "Mike" is aggressive and a good defen­For those gentlemen of the second eleven sive pla\''er, and with a little more experience who so nobly sacrificed their recreation hours, will make a valuable man. He is but nineteen and without a grumble underwent all the years of age, weighs 168 pounds and is six bumps and bruises, so that the Varsity might feet three inches in height. 

receive that practice which makes perfect, WILLIAM DESMOND (Guard and Tackle). 
the SCHOLASTIC has nothing but words of In the early part of the season when those 
praise.'The spirit they showed all season— in charge of the team were at a loss for line­
the only true college spirit—is one they men, Desmond put on a suit and came to the J 
may well feel proud of, and one that we rescue. He was first played at tackle, and did 
would like to .see emulated by. the entire brilliant work at that position, but later on.he 
student bod\-. Several of these j men have was shifted to guard, where his quickness 
the stuff in them to. make, good football made him a tower of strength. Last year he 
players, arid a few of them would have shown played on the Woodstock, 111., High School. ,
.up in some of the games but for injuries. 
team. He is twenty-two years old, weighs igo' D. O'Connor, R. Fisher, Draper and Funk pounds and is five feet eleven inches in height! did. work that gives great prornise for the His work gives great promise for next season., future. Coughlin, Beekum, and Joergens, who 
were ineligible because of classes,,but reported NATE SILVER (End). . ; ' : " ifor. practice every day, deserve the highest 
Silver is the, smallest man on the team, but4' 

praise for, their loyalty and devotion. The his dash, and nerve more than make up, for other riien, McKeon, Neizer, McDerriiott and his lack of weight. He is a shifty little fellow Mills,came out later in the season, but for on his feet, and at end he uses very gbpd them also the SCHOLASTIC has words'of praise. 
;. Manager Daly and his able, assistant, H. J. 
judgment in watching the plays. - His tackling 

McGlew, deserve great credit for the success is sure and effective, and during the Purdue they achieved. They had almost insurmount­gam.e he broke through the interference and able difficulties to overcome, but they worked downed, his man in a wonderful manner. Last 
heart and soul for the success of, .the team year he played end and quarter on the Chicago and in the end came out with flying colours. North Division High School team. He * is . : Trainer Butler passed through another eighteen years old, is five feet six inches in successful year. Handicapped, as we were by 
having so few eligible players^he loss of aheight and weighs 150 pounds. 
single player meaning perhaps the disorganiz­NICHOLAS R. FURLONG (Sub. Guard). ' . ing of the team—Butler performed wonders in Nicholas is one of the best utility men on keeping these men in shape for such a hard 
schedule. That he was successful we all know. 
the team and can be relied on to fill any of And now we wind up with a few words about the line positions with credit. Considering Coach Farragher. " Jim" did wonders with that this was practically his first-year of 

•our line-men, who were almost all light and football he (lid remarkably. well, arid should inexperiencedl Moreover, he instilled^ into be one of our most valuable men next season. them that fighting spirit which brought about He is twenty-two years of age, weighs 160 such,good results against heavier and more 
experienced teams. His work speaks for itself. 
pounds, and is, five feet ten inches in height, 

Closing, the SCHOLASTIC wishes .^ all these > F. J. SHAUGHNESSY (Quarter). .­
gentlemen a merry Christmas and a happy and When McGlew was injured and coach;and prosperous.New Year.;, J P. O'Reilly. 
•'--.\ 


