^•o-^ '3—a— 
Ch 

Ootrc Dame Scholastic 
ntr.ce-9vA5i-5cmpee-vicivyiews-• vive g\jAS\'cRAS-MOieiTvievs-
VOL. XLVIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, CHRISTMAS, 1914. No.. 1.1­
v»­

The Shepherds' Peace. 
BY WALTER L. CLEMENTS. 
Dramatis Personae. 
DANIEL, a shepherd. BENJAMIN, his friend and OTHER SHEPHERDS SCENE I.—.4 hill overlooking stable of Bethlehem. Shepherds guarding flocks. Daniel and Benjamin conversing apart. 
vej, ENJAMIN. I'd make her mine in wedlock's sacred vow, 'ji^ ^ 'Tis past the second watch, the flocks are calm^ Butknow not how to save for futtire times. 
And such a won'rous night I have not seen. I Avould not have the woman whom I love Yonder celestial orbs like lamps of Angels Endure the stings of penury for me. Now guide with love the darkened ways of men. BEN. 
DANIEL. • " . "Why not begin to save your earnings now? Yes,, heaven bends down nearer this old -\vorld And if she loves you much, she'll waittlie time. To place upon her brow a kiss of peace. DAN. Ah, yes, but pressed by many suitors' vows,. 
BEN. Her father, says that I must take her soon 
Behold our village 'mong the ancient hills Or else relinquish every hope of love. .' 

Like a bright ruby set in emerald. 

In truth I know not what a man should do— I wonder if the crowd that throng our inns But look—what wondrous light illumes the sky! 
,Feel such security of mind as we? 

DAN. BEN. • A tavern keeper told me yesterday Tell us, 3'e watchmen of the night, what can That Caesar is at peace with all the world. this mean? 
..SHEPHERS ALL^^ 
BEN. Behold a miracle is wrought. . •
'Tis strange, for seldom does the might of Rome Shut up the temple of her two-faced god. BEN. ' -' But peace or war, for my part I've such joy Not since the time when God led forth His tribes Of heart that I could pipe ray shepherd's lute Through burning deserts to the Promised Land, Among the tumbling towers of Jericho. By day and night alterna'tely a'cloud 
DAN. ' \ And fiery pillar guiding them thi-ough gloom. And yet, one care weighs heavy on my heart. Has such a wonder in the sky appeared. -. And this it is that clouds my quiet watcH. . 
SHEP.HERDS. , , , -. : . I know you'll think it ill that this affair 
Notice it hovers near the ancient cave. .^^.. * Should e'er intrude upon my peacefuliiess; 
Let's kneel and pray the Lord what this thing means.; 
' 'But I shall tell you as you are my friend 
{Voices singing.) ' 

Trusted and tried in keeping secrets close. Down in the village dwells'aiioble maid. Shepherds, all your fears allay, ­
Companion to my early childhood days. . Christ, the Savior comes to'-dayr­; The comradeship that I partook with her _ Go, pay homage to the King Unconsciously as riper years increased Ye that-can a-clean heart bring.^ Grew to a not-to'-be-foi-gotten love. Tell Him' ail your cares and troubles; > \, But I've been profligate with what 1 earned They shall facie like empt}'-bubbles: . :.­
>-Vr=^^^^, 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
He has come your souls to win As we have had the grace to see to-night. 
From the deadly thrall of sin. DAN. 
Haste and join the Choirs that sing The old man gazed in silent wonderment 
Endless praises to the King. And smiled when-we paid homage to the Babe. 
' SHEPHERDS. 
BEN. 
A King they saj' has come to us. Who can it be? Prophets of old have spoken of the Messiah, Whom men shall reverence as more than nian. :
DAN. The time is ripe. The world is waiting for Him. 
They bade us go and Avonship Him. Though we are shepherds ignorant and poor 
Let us obe3'^. We keep a secret nations seek to know. 
SHEPHERD. 
By such a radiant throng DAN. 
Caesar himself could not be heralded. Methinks I'm not so stupid as I was BEN. Not many hours ago when I told you 
They said we'd find our King in yonder cave Of poverty that kept me from my love. Beneath the star that brightens all the sky. Since then I've seen a King bedded in straw. .The old man had no place to take the two 
DAN. Save a dark stall made for dumb animals. 
Then let us to our royal master hie. 

Yet supernatural, fires illume the place. 
(Exeunt Shepherds.) 

Our sheep were more provided for than they. SCENE II. And yet such joy I've' never seen before. Sa7ne as Scene I. Near morning. The problem I proposed is solved for me. BEN. I'll dare to do and trust in Providence. 
I thought that we should see a might king BEN. ­
Wearing a jeweled crown and clothed in garments Already has the Saviour's reign begun 
•More regal than the robes of Solomon, Within our hearts where v-rongs are set aright. A look of awe upon his kingly front, 
{The datvn approaches.) 
A golden scepter in his royal hands, 

DAN. A voice of thunder made to give command; 
See how a beauteous blush steals o'er the east. And yet that Babe that slumbered in the crib 
Because the eager sun approaches nigh. Has more impressed me than a thousand kings. 
BEN. • • ­
SHEPHERD. Was ever mortal blessed with such a morn Since man was born of woamn never has That dawns to greet the Promised One earth born? There been such ectasy of mother love {Curtain.) 
First Christmas in America. 
BY B. V. 
IN the year 1492, the first celebration of these kindnesses' toward the great discoverer Christmas on the Western Hemisphere and his followers, the Indian chief caused a took place: Cliristopher Columbus and great banquet to be held on Christmas Day his crew were about to land on the shores and to it he cordially invited the famous 
;of :Haiti when one: of theiri ships, the Santa navigator and his brave sailors. To honor Maria, iran upon a rock and was wrecked. his guests still more, the chief made his prin­The sailors would certainly have perished had cipal warriors act as'servants on the occasion. it not been for the kindness of the natives of 
.the island. They sent out rude boats to rescue 


A Contrast. 

Coluinbus and his men, and were successful in bringing all of them safely to Jand. This hap­Herod was clothedJn purple.and in gold pened on Christmas Bve. The Indians pitied Who had usurped the_ Saviour's shining throne, the unfcyrtunatC: Spaniards. and lodged them in Jesus, the lawful heir, in a dim cave. th ^ iuts ;;for :the night; Not satisfied with Wasleft to reign unhonored and alone. 

TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTRC 
195 
The Second Coming. 
A s Mary laid her Child In the cold winter wild 
- Upon the straw; All heaven seemed to glow And angels bending low 
Adored in awe. . 
The shepherds left their herds. Beckoned by angels' words: 
Him they adored. Out of their simple souls Like spotless mystic bowls 
Their love was poured. 
And so to-day the priest On the sweet Saviour's feast 
Gives us for food: The Infant that was born On that first Christmas morn— 
His flesh and blood. 
And angels softly sing. Afar the echoes ring. How sweet the voice! ' Christ lives in every heart. Let Sorrow swift depart. Come and rejoice." P. D. n. 
^«*^ ; 
Ted of'* Barker's Flats. 
BY MARK I,. DUNCAN. 
*E'VE simply got. to paise that other twenty-five thousand," de­clared one of the fellows. 

"And we can't waste a minute," exclaimed .the other. "Why, Armstrong will go mad if we don't get it. But Burke was a brick to give you twenty-five thousand dollars!" 
The two young men boarded a passing car. They represented a money-hunting crew and knew that the money must be secured.in some unusual. manner of begging. Their philan­thropy was centred upon a somewhat unknown charity—efficient but small. The Armstrong Society had sprung up from the friendly interest a certain George Armstrong had manifested in a few boys. In the course, of development of this friendly interest he encouraged them to help needy boys, and the plan had so prospered that ultimately a wider range of work devolved upon the society, and its mission became recognized in the district where its efforts had chiefly been centred.. Robert Burke was: 
the first influential factor to notice its -^orth, 
and he donated twenty-five thousand dollars 
on the condition that the society raise the 
other twenty-five thousand by Christmas day, 
all the funds to be expended upon the erection., 
of a building which would facilitate the carrying 
on of this social service. 
Four thousand dollars remained to be raised. The boys had worked valiantly for the money, but had found it harder to raise than they had anticipated. Everybody seemed to have a" place for his extra coins, and although all sympathized in the work of the society, the contributions were of small proportions. Even the spirit of Christmas did not seem to have the effect that the name betokens. Peace and good-will toward men were limited by reason of business negotiations. Christmas is most significant of the true spirit of giving, but somehow the boys who were boosting for -the Armstrong Society found it hard to get the funds. They did not give up. It was the after­noon of the day before Christmas. 
Barker's Flats occupied a corner lot -in Chicago's tenement district. Barker had had no idea of planning them to be convenient for his tenants; systems of" model flat-building did not bother him in the least. AH he wanted was to get as many separate apartments into the big structure as was possible, and he had succeeded in using ever\^ available square foot of space. The tenants were people who , got their pleasures from standing on a high .. back porch decorated with a clothes-line hting with muddy garments, and screeching to the neighbor of a similar back porch. The screech ; was necessary because of the horrible racket of the elevated train which came so close to .. these air-porches as to cause the new ten­ant to fear for his life every time a, strain approached. '-.•:•"' 
Mrs. Hardy and her son, Ted, lived in No. 13, Barker's Flats. She had the muddy washirij^ and the high-pitched voice .characteristic;of •_,. these modern: cave dwellers. .This was SatT:;;;­urday and the day before Christmas. ^The ; -V; name meant little to her now, and the spirit,_'{ j / less. Ted Hardy was twelve years old, but he. ; : had spent most of his crippled life in an invalid's ^f-.^.^ chair. Had it not been for his interest in dfawing^^;;; :• he might have been the most despondent ^^;:;;^ creature in Barker's Flats. But he drew pictures .5:4^ 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
of ever3'lhing and ever3'•bod3^ He bordered 
all the stray newspapers and magazines, and 
drew upon the backs of the cracked plates 
and saucers. His talent had suddenl}^ budded 
forth from its latency, but had little chance 
of. developing amidst such surroundings. 
Through one of: the Armstrong Societ)'", 
whose members ferreted out all sorts of cases, 
Ted had. been discovered. He was an inter­
esting chap, despite the fact that most of his 
life had been spent in the Flats. The Arm­
strong Societ3'- interested him. He Avas anxious 
to know what the world was doing, and graduall)'' 
came.to realize that his own world was A'-er}'" 
small. He entered into the societys' campaign 
for money as man}'^ a livelier bo}'" would not 
have done. It meant so much to him. Upon 
a better grade of drawing paper which the 
Armstrong representatives gave him he drew 
little sketches of the simple scenes that he 
could see from liis window in the kitchen as 
he sat all da}'^ in his chair—simple scenes because 
of their familiarity to him, but 5'^et made grand 
from the ver}"- thought that the}'- were to be 
given to the Societ}'- as a means of raising 
funds for the -new building. For what had not 
the boys promised him if they got their building? 
A Merry Christmas it would be if they raised 
the funds. He would be taken to their home 
and treated by specialists. And what was more 
important, he would be given art lessons— 
it would not cost him or his mother a penn}'-. 
And then he could .become a famous artist— 
a cartoonist, .^perhaps, on one of the great 
city newspapers. 
His Christmas spirit was bigger and nobler 
than that of the thousands who spend their 
money lavishly upon unappreciated gifts. His 
was the true Christmas spirit hmited as was his " 
knowledge of the real importance of the day. 
With pencil in hand and an unfinished drawing 
on his lap he fell into, a reverie despite 
the awful distraction, outside. His thoughts 
wandered dreamily to the Armstrong Society— 
to Jim and Fred who had proriiised to come to 
see him Christmas Eve—^to the-^-but an awful japping at the. door, dispelled his reverie. "Come in," piped Ted.. .. ­,£ The dobr:squeaked and opened.; ,"Well, where's ;your mother?" thundered 
the awful ^oice; of the big man who entered. jf/'Siie's; dowhjtb ^ e grocery,; Mr. ;Barker," replied l Ted, half-frightened,.; for he.; knew what? {Barker's: visit:! meant, f He: always - sent his agent unless the rent was much past due. Ted feared what the consequences might be. He had a mental image ©f himself and his mother spending their Christmas day in the streets, cast out of Barker's Flats. 

"Well, it's time she was here, bawled Barker, and sat down heavily in a chair which almost gave way under his tremendous weight. Both remained silent for quite a while, the monotony brok&n only by Mr. Barker's hea^'y breathing, for climbing the steps of his Flats .had required much effort. 
"Are you going to have a nice Christmas?" ventured Ted. "Me? A nice Christmas? What do I want with a nice Christmas?" shouted Barker. 
Ted was cowed and resolved to keep quiet unless addressed by the landlord, who was beginning to stamp his feet in impatience. Suddenly he glanced at Ted's lap. 
"What's that?" he said, pointing to the pencil drawing which Ted had been working on before Barker's arrival. 
"Just a picture," answered Ted 

-"Let me see it," demanded Barker. "Oh," he added getting up, "I forgot you couldn't bring it to me." 
He looked at it closel}'^. 
" H'm! who did this?-''• - he^ asked. 
"I did," replied Ted. 
"You?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Who taught you to draw?" 
"I just know how." . , 
"Never had any lessons?" '. ; 
"No; sir." . . • . . • :' 
"What do you do with your drawings?" 
"I give them to Jim and Fred of the Arm­

strong Society." "What kind of a society is.that? I never heard of it." 
Barker had struck the key which. sounded Ted's volubility. His fear vanished and he burst forth into explanation. 
"O Mr. Barker,'haven't you ever heard of the Armstrong Society ? I thought everybody knew about- it.; It's; the most wonderful, thing in the world. ^ They: help boys, who can't help themselves. They buy clothes for boys who haven't any - money. They go: to their houses at night and give-them lessons about all sorts of things. O. Mr.: Barker, they've been so good to me ;and hkve promised to give. me. lessons in drawing if they: can raise-their fund." : 
"What fund?" asked Barker, less gruffly 

and  somewhat  interested  
" 0  r forgot  you didn't know ab out it.  The  
Society  has  needed  .a  home  so  badly  and  

didn't have the money to get one. But a rich man gave- them twenty-five thousand dollars if they could raise the same amount by tomor­row—Christmas day. O you don't knoAv what all they do foir boys!" 
There was a knock at the door. It was Jim and Fred, the same two boys who had boarded "the car down town. 
"Hello, Ted," they cried out. 
".O, hello boys. I knew you'd come; have 5'^ou got all the fund?',' 
"No, Ted, we haven't," said Fred, "but we cam^e to see ^''ou an^^vay for we had promised you we would come." . 
"How much do you lack?" queried Ted. "About four thousand dollars," answered Jim. 
Ted's happy expression disappeared. That much money-was a big fortune to him, and. unless they raised it, his hopes were blasted. 
"But I've almost got another picture done,'.' added Ted. "I can finish it for you in just a minute." 
Mr. Barker hadn't been noticed. He moved on his chair uneasily. He was not in the habit of-being so completely ignored. 
* "Boys, this is Mr. Barker," said Ted "I've just been telling him about the society and the home and all. He didn't know anything about it." . "It's-a big proposition you're tackling, young men," said Barker. 
Ted had never seen him so civil. 

"Yes, but it's worth all the work we put into -it," answered Fred, "for we're doing big things.^ But we need the home badly and hope to have it from .this campaign. It will be a Christmas gift the whole year round to everybody we can help." 
Barker imbuttoned his overcoat, put on his spectacles, and went over to the table. He kept his back to the boys and then began bundling himself up to go outside. As he started toward the door he handed Fred a check. It called for enough money to more 

' than cover the deficit for the fund. 
"Good luck to you, boys," shouted Barker, "you've giyen ine^ my first real Christmas!" He slammed the door before the boys could say a word. 
The King. 
P^ TRFvMBLING Babe upona bed of straw-Robed in the purple splendor of the night. Sweet strains of heavenly music e'er the dawn 
Wafted by moonlight angels in their flight, A virgin brow that o'er His cradle shone. Two virgin arms that made His kingly throne. 
Christmas in the Poets. 
BY SPEER STRAHAISr.­

.^.p^H E old, old story of Christmastide is. ever changing and ever new. Year after year there is' the same vision of angels, the same shepherds kneehng 
at the Grib, the same poor dumb. animals that were crowded out in the cold to give God room, the beauty hidden below all the poverty, and Heaven's simplicity in performing great things. And yet again and again the mystery seems shot with a* new fire, new beauties are seen at every turning, new love and new humiliations in every detail. It must be this eternal newness ard beauty of the Nativity that has held so great an attraction for the poets. Let us glance at a few of these. Christmas poems. 
Even as early as the thirteenth century in England, the religious feelings of the people sought expression in songs that, because' of their joyoiisness, were known as carols.. In the centuries gone by most of these have been lost, but how could this one but live? 
As I rode out this endenes uight Of three jolly shepherds I saw a sight . And all about their fold a star shone bright 
They sang terli terlow So merryly the shepherds their p:pes can blow. 
Down from heaven, from heaven so high . , Of angels there came a great companye With mirth and joy and great solemnitye 

They sang terli terlow So merry^ly the shepherds their pines can blow. Has our own age with all its :treasures. of poetry produced anything more - delicately beautiful? Does not this old carol truly reflect the joyous, light-hearted spirit of Catholic Merrie Englande? •_ '•, 
- In Milton's "Hymn.on the Morningiof the' Nativity" we meet a poem of a highly elevated' and yet tender nature. Simply the.poet begins:=: 
. It was.the winter mild . .;-;. ,5 , While the heaven-born Child. \ • -. All meanly wrapped in the rude manger,lies.,,pf: 

Then the poem courses on:—Nature has hidden her deformities beneath a veil of snow; Peace reigns over all, and despite the coming dawn, 
The stars in deep amaze Stand fixed in steadfast gaze Until the Lord bespake and bid them go. 
The shepherds are startled by the angels' song and proclaim that "did it last" all sin and even hell itself would pass awa}'-. At length haAang announced the downfall of the pagan oracles, and after 
The Virgin blest . Hath laid her Babe to rest, the sun goes down "curtained with cloud}' red," the evening stars appear in the heavens and the hymn draws to a close. Among the religious poets, Crashaw has also given us a number of rare lines in -his "Song of the Shepherds." Gloomy night embraced the place Where the noble Infant lay. The Babe looked up and showed His face— 
In spite of darkness, it was day. It was Thy day. Sweet! and did rise Not,from the East but from Thine eyes. 
Or this one that Francis Thompson so loved: I saw the curled drops, soft and low Gome lowering o'er the place's head, Offering their whitest sheets of snow To furnish the fair Infant's bed. 
Robert Southwell's "Burning Babe" is like­wise a lyric of quaint beauty and deep, spiritual insight. On a frosty winter night the poet stands shivering in the snow when a vision-is seen of the Babe of Bethlehem all enveloped in fire.. The Infant explains that men's cold­ness of heart is the fuel for the flame that thus burns Him day and night; the fire is His love, and His "faultless breast the fur­nace." With a delica:te touch of mysticism the Babe is represented as saying, 
"As now on fire I am . To work them to their good. So will I melt into a bath 
To wash t'hem in Mj' blood." Then the apparition fades, and the piece ends as the poet 
' - "calls into his mind That it is Christmas day." In our own times the wealth of real Christmas ptoetfy hias rather^^been multiplied than lessened. /Among many, Fa.ther Tabb, Alice Meynell, and ! W.L M. Letts, all have produced - work thatimust be echoed agaiii" and; again in everv heart that loves Bethlehem. 

Father Tabb's genius for condensation is peculiarly adapted to such a subject. A number of his Christmas poems are exquisitely beautiful and well deserve quotation, but the following ones are far too insistent to be dis­regarded. The first,, "The Christ Child to the Christmas Lamb," is in its simplicity akin to the Infant and the lamb itself. 
•0 Little Lamb, Behold I am 
So weak and small That even Thou Canst pity now 

The God of all. The other is called "Out of Bounds" and would appeal to any person whether he were six or sixt}^. A little Boy of heavenlj' birth. But far from home to-day Comes down to find His ball, the Earth, That sin has cast away. O comrades, let us one and all Join in and get Him back His ball. On turning to the poetry of Alice Meynell we find a real strength and refined delicac}''. The work, happily, unlike that of many women writers, is singularly free from imperfection of form and obscurity of thought. Coventry Patmore characterized it as "the marriage of masculine force of insight with feminine grace and tact of expression." These qualities are splendidl}'^ exemplified in "Unto Us a Son is Given." 
Given, not lent. And not v/ithdrawn—once sent— This Infant of mankind, this One, 
'Is still the little welcome Son. 
New every year. New-born and newly dear. He comes with tidings and a song The ages long, the ages long. 

The last stanza, too, is intense with subtle spirituality. Sudden as sweet 
Come the expected feet. All joy is young and new all art, And He, too, whom we have by heart. 

Miss W. M' Letts, however, finds her inspira­tion in the Irish people, and with a wonderful depth of human sympathy rejoices in their joys and. sorrows in their sorrowings. Of- her late poems, the "Christmas Guest" is singularly fresh and beautiful: ; 
If Mary came to the door to-night,—. In the bitter wind and the soaking rain,— If she came to me in her sorry plight, . To plead as one woman pleads with another. 

As mothers come in their needs to a mother; If Mary came in the wind and rain. She never should beg at my door in vain. 

The closing stanza can not fail to grip the heart close. If Mary came—the Mother of God, The Rose of the World upon her breast; it begins, and then full-hearted sweeps along. Oh! I'd sweep the ashes and turn the .sod. And bring her new bread and cakes of my baking, -With the freshest butter, this morning's making. Happy the home that could offer rest 
To the new-born Child, Earth's Christmas Guest. Here, certainly, is an authentic picture of the devotion of the Irish to Mary. 
Probably one of the most exquisite Christ­mas poems in recent years is Joyce Kilmer's "Fourth Shepherd." It opens with the shep­herds watching their flocks on the hillside: 
On nights like this the huddled sheep Are like white clouds upon the grass. And merry herdsmen guard their sleep. And chat and watch the big stars pass One of the shepherds—the fourth one—is guilty of murder and his comrades have cast him off. In his remorse he wanders about aimlessly from place to place until by chance he meets Mary and Joseph turning from the inn. . He leads them to his stable, and there in the night God is born. When the angels appear, the shepherd is again out on the hills with his sheep. At dawn beside vn.j drowsy flock What winged music I have heard; But now the clouds with singing rock As if the sky were turning bird. Is there anything in our modern poetry more beautiful? Is this not a faint revelation of the wonders of the language that as yet no ear hath heard nor eye seen? And then, too, the loveliness of this last, when the guilty one is forgiven: O Whiteness, whiter than the fleece Of new-washed sheep on April sod! 6 Breath of Life, O Prince of Peace, -O Lamb of God, O Lamb of God. So the poets have gone on, year after year, discovering new beauties in this great mystery, offering the Divine Child their verses like the gold and myrrh and frankincense that the Magi brought. • And after all, is not a poet doing his real work when he writes on such a subject? Let.critics assign him to a major or a minor class, it matters not; if he be a true poet he will see God, and where can we see Him better than at Bethlehem? 
A Farewell. 

r^OOD-B YE, Old Year, the moonbeam's gentle rays Fall softly on the silver of thy locks. Within thine eyes, the hope of other days Flickers a faint farewell; the night wind mocks Thy passing hours by screeching o'er the Wild And moaning in the caverns of the deep; 
- For soon the promised-year, a new-born child. Will waken smiling from his natal sleep. 
• The young remain, the aged pass and die, " So fare thee,well. Good-bye, Old Year, good-bye. 
R. S. 
^ m»­
The Spirit of Christmas. 
BY B. EDMUND. 
ANY festivals and celebrations take place yearly in every land, but it is certain, none are looked forward to so eagerly as Christmas. 

The word Christmas signifies the Mass of Christ, for on Christmas Day nineteen hundred and fourteen years ago was born the Victim whose death was to free mankind from the tyranny of Satan. It is in grateful remembrance of this mercy that the Church celebrates the feast in so joyful and solemn a manner. On that day she allows her priests to say three Masses, one of which may be offered at mid­night. Even at so early an. hotir, people eagerly hasten to the parish church and joy­fully assist at it. With what sentiments of devotion and love are their souls filled at the sight of the "crib!" And when they, receive the Infant Christ into their bosoms, how sweetH' their heart-strings give forth the strains of " Adeste Fideles!" Oh! if it were always Christ­mas, then to such souls earth would not be earth but another Eden. 
But at this season the human element also enters into our joy. Old feuds are forgotten; ­heart and hand are open to our fellowmen, and the spirit of charity binds all in the bond of a universal brotherhood. It is- necessarily so, for true charity does not rest in God alone; it must also embrace all His rational creatures. 
Naturally, too, the spirit of Christmas manifests itself in a variety. of cherished and beautiful customs, many of which have come down to us from the dim ages of paganism. The custom of decorating our houses with holly and laurel and the fair mistletoe is 
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
200 
Druidic in its origin, as is also the burning of the Yule-log. The lighting of the Yule-log is peculiar to England, and, in-ages past, had the dignit}' of the public celebration. But though some of these customs are of pagan origin, many are purely Christian. Among these we may take .as a tj'^pical example the Christmas tree. Christian tradition seems to have cast a halo about some plants: flowers spring up on Christmas night, and trees are said to take on once more their summer cloth­ing of blossoms. Although many stories of this kind are without foundation, it is a fact that in France there are some shrubs that do blos­som in midwinter, while nobody properly informed doubts the flowering of the Glaston­bur}'^ thorn in England. The flowers of this tree are seen to bloom year after year during the Christmas season. They are somewhat smaller than in summer and do not produce -fruit; Legend has it that, the tree springs from the staff Joseph of Arimathea planted there, when he came to England with the Holy Grail. Another - beautiful custom that seems special to Ireland is the • lighting of the Christmas. candle. It is abqut two feet high, and is left to burn from the night of Christmas Eve until next morning. A peculiar but stable equili­brium is established by fixing the candle in a hole dug out of a large turnip. It is also well­" known that the original Santa Claus, is no other than St. Nicholas, whose feast is cele­brated earl)' in December. In Holland and many parts of Germany St. Nicholas' Day is ver}'- popular with the children, even more so than Christmas,- and on the eve of his feast 
• the)^ place, their little'wooden shoes near the fireplace to receive his gifts. If the}^ find a xod instead of their usual, toys and sweetmeats, .it is a sign that the Saint has not been pleasejl with their behavior during the past year. Then again there is the custom-of sending Christmas­; cards, Christmas boxes and the like. One and all originate in thespirit of piety, fraternal charity 
= and jo)'' that .is so distinctive a mark of the ^season, and; without.'which Christmas would ' be::but the mocking-.skeleton of what it really is. 
•.On -this day, how niany hearts are made glad,;'how many -sorrows forgotten!. ^Though , thewind.be.cMll/ and the sk}'^ leaden and, dull,. ; ,yetf the .sunshine of love- and. joy fills '.the soul. ^{Indeed-: j-the;;spirit is;, best expressed inTthe 
words:•." Glpr}^be to. God. inlthe , highest,'^and ;ron:eaxti{peace^^ to>m^ , J ' -. 
His Mother. 

I F she had tarried at thy cottage door And asked for rest, Wouldst thou have welcomed her-with cheerful heart And made His nest? 
If she had come to thee in dead of night' . In strange disguise. Wouldst thou have seen the light of love aflame Within her eyes? 
If she shall come to-dav—a troubled soul— To ask thy aid, O wilt thou soothe her weary, aching heart Nor be afraid? 
Should Old Acquaintance. 
BY EUGENE R. MCBRIDE. 
S the shivering outpost ceased his restless passing to and fro, he brought his rifle to the port and looked straight ahead of him down the darkened 

road. Far away he heard distinctl}?-, the beat­ing of a horse's hoofs on the frozen ground. It was from the rear,'however, so the picket stood calmly in the middle of the road awaiting the rider. He had not-long to wait, for soon horse and rider emerged from the mky dark­ness, and halted a foot in front of him. 
"Countersign!" demanded ' the picket promptly. 
"Headquarters." came, the reply. "Orders have been issued to cease firing all along the line. A two-da)'^ armistice has been declared. There are to be no exchange of shots between pickets to-night.- You are to be on the alert, however,'and to see that the road is kept clear. Fraternizing with the enemy" is strictly for­bidden.. You understand?" 
The picket's hand touched the ^dsor of his cap. . ;. • -. . "Is that all, sir?" . hetcalled after the rider, who had already begun- to, canter away. He askied the question more for the sake of breaking the monotony of his lonesome state than for the acquisition of further information. 
The young: aide,J a mere, boy, reined up his horse and turned around-in: the :saddle. . "Yes,'.' he. answered,,; "except—a happy .rChristmas Eve to you, picket'' ,;Then he laughed at the absurdity;of his:>w6rds.:;'.. -.,. 
;-'.-: :,*.^.C 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 20I 
The outposts' hand again touched his cap, as-he gruffly returned the greeting. The mes­senger immediately galloped off in the direction which he "had come, leaving the region doubly desolate. 
For a long time the lonesome warrior stood still, listening to . the hoof-beats becoming fainter and fainter, until they finally died out altogether, leaving him alone with only dark­ness and the snow-covered ruin of what had once been the home of a prosperous farmer, for company. After gazing longingly for a while at the distant ridge of campfires that dotted the English lines, he resumed his fretful pacing backward and forward and kept a close watch on the road ahead of him. Sud­denly, several hundred yards in front, a light flickered and grew, then another and another sprang up, until the whole bleak landscape was dotted with them. Standing still and breathless, the lonely soldier imagined that he could hear the cheerful crackling of burning logs. He dropped the butt of his rifle on" the frozen ground and clapped his hands together to induce warmth, never taking his eyes from the lights ahead of him. 
The Dutch have got wind of the armistice, too," he thought to himself., "They're the boys who know how to enjoy themselves. It's just my bloomin' luck to be furthest outpost, without the chawnce for a warm, an' 'appy Christmas heve said 'is young lordship. I knows a spot in Bengal where I wasn't doin' polar explorin' lawst Christmas heve. There's my hidea of—" 
His reminiscences were interrupted here by. a sweet tenor voice that came from the 
Germancovered  lines, echoing sweetly over the snow­ countryside:  
- - Stille nacht, heilige nacht  Alle schlaft, einsam wacht!  
"Wot  a rotten lingo!" muttered Mr. Atkins,  

but he listened attentively nevertheless until the last sweet strain.died away, when he felt lonelier than ever. Angered at having allowed his sentiments to run away with him in this fashion, he let out a whoop of • derision which was intended .more. for. the sake of hearing his.own voice than- for an insult. An answering shout canie from the vicinity of the nearest campfire where, a German picket also strode back and forth. After several minutes had" passed, a huge trooper^ in Bavarian uniform emerged from the darkness to -the side .of the road. The English outpost ..quickly raisedr his gun and covered the intruder. - .. . 
"Ach! Neinl NeinI" cried a cheery voice.. 
" I  come  to  salute  Caesar,  not  to  biiry  him.'  
It is cold, there is  a  tmce.  Come to  our  fire  
and smoke with  us."  

"Well of all the bloomin' neirve," cried Tommy. "We blokes are fightin' Dutchie, this ain't no week end party y'know and-—" swelling with pride over his hewly acquired phrase—" 'fraternizin' with the enemy is strictly forbidden.' " 
But the German insisted: "Aber it is Wein nachten—Christmas," he said smiling. "We will 'sing to-night and fight to-morrow." 
Tommy cast one glance behind him ;at. the far distant lights, w;here his own companions were making merry. He knew that he would not be relieved by the guard for several hours.. 
"Why not?" he asked himself. . He looked ahead of him at the inviting blaze. His keen nostrils quivered when he smelled something cooking, it was a very faint odor, but it decided him. Slinging his-rifle, over his shoulder he followed the stranger, casting furtive glances behind him at every step. After several minutes walk, he stood in the midst of the enemy at the.nearest fire. Eight or ten other troopers were sitting on logs or on the ground, looking into the cheerful flames. There was a pan resting on the: hot coals, and something in it that sizzled and gave forth the delicious odor of frying meat.-; ' "See what I have brought you,,my-friends," cried Tommy's companion. "I"have captured an Englishman, whose ransom, shall be a song. He is: of the Royal Bengalese, as I see' by.his dress. They fought us well at. Tirle-, mont. Let us welcome a brave enemy." Each of the loungers acknowledged the Englishman's presence with a nod and a sinile. Tommy walked awkwardly up to the fire and took a seat on a log next to a strapping^ big^^ Bavarian. He calmly lit his pipe and;puffed away con tentedly. Soon the pan was; lifteti from the .fire and a mess of steaming- hot sausage passed around on^wooden : "chips, : Tommy coming in for a liberal shareiV He attacked it vigorously, even swallowing-/the-; wrapping. The warmth of the fire had attracted" him, but he had retained the cold dignity ptithe-Briton, until after he had eaten. /The.saiisage^^ 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
202 
won him completel}'', however, and when his 
entertainers call-ed for a song he complied 
willingl)'- and roared out several ballads of the 
cockne)'' type, much to the amusement of his 
listeners. Finally the lire and the meal began 
to take effect, and he became sentimental 
He began to sing "Annie Laurie" as only the 
British soldier can sing it. 
A hush fell upon the merr\' group and everj­soldier listened attentively. Although the words, were strange to most of them, the sweet plaintive melod}^ touched them deeply and made them big hearted men again. The singer ended the ballad and was shocked at the deep silence that ensued. Finallj^ one of the Germans, Tommj-'s captor, spoke; 
"It was that song the Knglisli sang the night 

before Tientsin, when ^ve fought the Boxers." 
Tomni}- turned to the speaker. , 
"Chinee campaign?" he inquired. 

The German proudlj'^ displayed his service medal and Tommy did the same. Then they both grinned and turned reminiscent. 
" I remember the Germans," said the Eng­

lishman, "There wasn't mam'' of them but 
the}'- did a da^'-'s work. You helped to save 
our hides when the Chinks cut us off from the 
coast. 1 was with Sej'-mour's column, y'know." 
"A gallant leader and brave command," 

commented the German, his eyes .flashing. 
",We fought well together in the long weeks 
that followed." 
'"I t was;a fight.for sure," replied Tommy, 

"but liof course nothin' to_ this scrap. We were fightin' 'eathens then, .and nov/ we're ,fightin';^ach other," Here he. tried to laugh, but pnl}'^ succeeded in . making a gruesome attempt at it.. " It's a bloody me§s, as Benny 
Greaves .would ..say." .. . ,. . 
" "Benny-—.?" said, the Germandnquiringh''. -"Greaves,", answered, Tommy; .''Bunkie of mine for ten years. \ Kalled at the Ainse." 
r. At; this touch of .nature, true to .the. prpvei:b, his enemies;became!-lus;kin.\-There was not one there- who. ia d not;lost some relative or chum rin-f the; early.:da3^s-jpf,- the .war. . The" .silence, again-Jbecame;unbearable.;:;.-. --- i. _ > :-'-;'Had< a-i letterifrornVrBeriny's kid. to-dav: >msMri^.iine .Meri3':^;Christmas:\: She :sent;;me her' 
picture. "A--Tpmmy^ o 'brought:::!ojtiic acspiledS envelope^': Addressed tin 
:^^^rz.^pik 
girl of about eight summers. Several, hands' were stretched forward to receive it, and it was passed around the group and closel}'­examined by the flickering light of the fire. Tommy's sentimentalit}^ was infectuous. The thoughts of every'-one of his listeners flew back to homes in Bavaria, and dwelt fondly on some little flaxen-haired child left there to await the fortune of battle. There was much clearing of throats-and another awk^vard silence. 
"The}?- know how to fight—the EngHsh,' . resumed the veteran, ' •• "And the Dutch—Germaiis," answered the Englishman, not be to outdone in generosity, A kindly, half-cynical smile spread over the German's face. " • "It is strange, as 3''0U sa}'-," he mused, "We were soldiers of the same cause once. Shall we ever be so again?" "Dunno," replied Tommy, rising hurriedly and glancing toward his vacant post. "Mean­while"— a huge grin enveloped his cockney countenance—" 'fraternizin' with the enem}'- is strictty forbidden.' I thank you kindly for the feed and warm." He buttoned his.great coat, picked up his gun and started on his lonely walk. The big Bavarian got up and walked quickly after him. "The little madchen," he said, "I wish her health and many joys. I shall look for her when we reach London." Here the German laughed merrily. '' All right,'' ~ grinned Tommy. '' She'll be read}'^ to inarr}'- then.'-' "Leb Wohl!" called the sometime enem}^. Orry •. more I"- answered To mm}'. In a few miniites he. was back once more at his lonely post, and the •.restless pacing to and fro, to wait for sunrise and the relief. "You're a^traitorto your coiintr}^, me lad," he said.to himself;; "A bloomih' traitor. Ye've sold yer king fer a-mess'of sausage, but after aU,-1: doh'.t'kno-w. who's the worse for it. Feed toruight and: fight to-fnorrowi"- he-went on philosophically. ;" So ..he was in China. We were'bunkies once, and.didn't know it." He paused;-^ here.} anU-fastened ;his-:: e}'-es on the distant Kghtiwiiere he .had; been' a short time before;- .A.::sensebf>brp^^ him. : "; " Soinetirnes; Iiihink .Ut's; unnatural for :us .to 
•be killih'reach%ptKer.-this iwayj" :he -murrnured,; "byt^hat?ainjt ioi^e:^ . r 
mmmmm&sMix: 
TBE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
:2b3f 
Christmas Night. 

O H wonderful and joy-bestowing night. As Bethlehem's shepherds huddled cold and still. An angel clothed in'raiment shimmering white. Appeared and gave the message of good will. 
For guiding star they left their bleating herds And found enthroned, their court a lowly shed. The Blessed Queen with loving arms and words And King of kings with light-encircled head. 
Thus He had coihe Who was announced before. The Son of God, the hearts of men to stir. And finding, low they bowed Him to adore 
•With gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh. 
And now the Christmas^ night has come again. The hearts of men with joy and love should fill; 
•That thei-e-may be, as first was brought by Him, A peace on earth to all men of good will. 
John Urban Rilev. 
Christmas Day. 
BY B. WALTER 

^HRIST'S nativity, is for all of us the day of the whole year most eagerly anticipated. It has. become a part and parcel of our American as well as of our Catholic life. It seems strange to us, then, to be told" b}'- historians that Christmas was not always celebrated on December 25, and even that during, the first arid second centuries of the Christian era it was rot generally cele­brated at all. Birthday celebrations were of pagan origin, and so the earlj'- Fathers of the Church looked with disfavor on all nativity festivals. Origen says that "sinners alone, 
.not saints, celebrate their birthday." ­
Strange to say, the first e\ddence of the Christmas celebration com.es from Egj'^pt, the Egyptian theologians assignirg May 20 as the date of Christ's birth. In fact almost every 
-month of the year has at different times and places been assigned as the birth-month of Our Lord. January 6 was a favorite date for celebrating the feast.after the custom had obtained a foothold in the Church. Uniformity, however,, came only after the year A. D. 243, when Rome first ' began to celebrate the Nativity on Pecember 25.-' 
The ^personage of Santa, Claus is riot strictly an adjunct of the • Christmas festival. The original and first real Santa : Claus was of course St. Nicholas, whose death is commemoTf': re' 
rated by the Church on December 6. He has !,:> 
long been held as a favorite saint by the.childreri ^ :? 
of all countries. His gererosity, goodness and.;' t^ 
care for the little ones were responsible for Ms'. __* 
popularity, and as time went on the. idea of - r" 
the saint changed, until we now have the good-^ .. 
natured and generous old man so familiar, in ; : 
Christnias story and Yule-tide tale. -' 
Christmas is one of the most universal of i all the feasts. Wherever the light of the Gospel • ­dispels the darkness of error and sin, there the gladness of the Christmas season is - manifest. '• It is a feast particularly dear to Americans, ,»­notwithstanding the fact that many have little : -; further relation with the Saviour whose birth--' day is to them an occasion of gladness and > fraternal good will. The Pilgrim Fathers.' ­threatened to leave us without the. inheritance ' ^.; of this happy season, for out of a narrow jealousy: ~ and prejudice they endeavored to abolish all > . memory of past- traditions and. to substitute. Thanksgiving Day for the birthday of Guf. Lord. But happily the American heart-was. big enough to hold both festivities, and firm ,; ; enough to override the prejudice of race and creed. ' • ' .­
Notre Dame was blessed at a very early ., date with its first Christmas celebration. The . . intrepid Father Allouez was on this .spot '; teaching the Pottawatomie Indians perhaps ;. : as early as 1675—at least his mission was firmly ^ • ^ established by the year loSo. We may belieye 1;;.: that tliis zealous Xavier of x4.merica oi^ each?^. " : recurring Christmas made glorious with-;:.tie; .iZa presence of the Divine Child that, poof-"mis-l-_ 0-> sion "hut where in future ages would rise the>". more splendid, towers of the shrine of.AMary ,::,•::' Immaculate. . . ; " 1 ' 
Comfortxe: 
QNC E did T pray.to thee, •;. ' 
Bride of the Lily-King,' •' 
In-my sore misery, ~. / •:.; 
Begging that thou wpnlcist bring.. 
Him who is passioh-free .f ' '.i; 

mMm.
Into my soul. 
Now my I,ove conies-to me. 
Borne on thy-Virgin breast; 
Daily 1 visions see/ . 
. 'Daily sweet Virtue's quest 
I;ead me to Him and- thei 

»:i'm-?M
' Heaven's-.bright goal 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.204 
A Parting. 
I N other climes or iiear or far. No matter where yon go, When bur'niiig Yule logs fill the uight With a soft silver glow. When all the world seems full of love And wrought with inelody, Look back across the fading j'-eais. And you'll remember me. 
Though you may live among the rich And tread tlie golden waj-. Where pleasures like the Autumn leaves Lie scattered in your waj^. When the white tide of Yule comes in Across the surging sea. An old sweet face Avill smile again If you'll remember me. 
'Tis lonely to have loved arid lost. But Avh\' should one be sad. Who would have given twice the price To know that you.are glad? The mist shall from my eyes depart, ]My heart shall fill with glee. If when this night comes round each year Yon pause to think of me. . . -_ • M. R. 
The Hallowed Time. 
BY GEORGE-SCHUSTER. 

' N'those-amiable dead days before silver-tongued diplomats had officially sanctioned M grape^juice or. the national beverage, and when. a ma n could brew a cheerful bowl of punch - without erecting an iron-barred club-house to protect himself from green-eyed suffragettes, Washington Irving of Knicker­
.bocker fame accidentally rambied into an ^nglish gentlernan's manor and discovered various' relips of Yuletide jests and customs, which the.world has been imitating ever since. His desmptioh;opened the optics of that senti­mental gentleman, Charles Dickens, to the fact. that Chfistmas should be the best time ever, 
-
 arid inspired him toVwrite." Christinas Carols" 

-
 asi<i3' Cric^t:>-^n: the \Hearth,^' jtill holiday chiilarityCibeca^ It has 


Ithe^pledgei^^ridfthat^jall^ -^ , .'^ logs j^rarid;-i poor :f^ 
'mmmrnm. 
Tims. Yet, I am sure that everyone of us who is forced to listen to his prosaic radiator sizzle and to reflect upon the lugubrious anaemia of his wallet, is homesick for a some far-off, simple land where raging fires leap upon big, hospitable hearths and hearty men and women enjoy themselves simpty and- thoroughly. .' 
'Twas Christmas Eve! Ah, that little phrase with its vision of a dim manger where the ox and the ass gazed stupidly upon the sweet little Boy that la}'^ huddled upon their provender, has made many a heart tender with thought" and joy. Correggio signed it beneath his fervid masterpiece; Dickens, Merimee, Amerbach-^ who can count them all?—have prefixed it to those stories which make an easy-chair "a consummation devoutly to be wished;" Shakes=­peare, Scott, Browning, Longfellow, and the whole dear throng of them, have put it into ditties we all know by heart.- Despite all our cool-smoke . and Malthusian economics and Progressive politics we can't get it out of our heads. 'Twas. Christmas Eve! The very sound makes us generous and happy and peaceful." It is not merely roast goose and plum pudding; it is the image of a little church in" 
the snowdrifts, where the bells are always ringing, where there are little children singing round a crib. , We all go to church' on Christmas. 
Yet there was a time when men strove to make it a plain, colorless day, and when they wellnigh succeeded. The grim Puritan whose spectacles were everlastingly fixed . on the Penitential Psalms, could not for the life of him see why there should be any merriment on a church hohday. It smacked .of Popish cerembn}'^, of undue pagan merriment, of a disturbance of that ghostly, • sombre quiet which theXord had set aside,for His especial obser^'^ances. The Puritans were partly correct. Wrhen :the Church had the say of things, Jesus celebrated His birthday. It, was. thought _ that everybody should rejoice and grow sentimental and; generous upon seeing: that helpless- Infant 
who had come down to "save them: ^ ,'.-Go d blessrye,jmerry; gentlemen; . - :. ", :" ... /May. nothing ryou dismay;/ ;.. • " ,'. , : For Jesus:/Christ _ : W'aV'born on Christmas^^^ One -notaI)le":fact^^^^ ,Christian caro^^ is^ that 3t calls; a .blessing.ju * 'merry peopie.";5H^ad • Mt^^^ written • it, {& : epithet) wo have 
-'^f::CiAys;^->S;>-:l,-o;>-. 

been "holy." There.can be no doubt that the mediaeval, Catholic idea was to make men rejoice with God and His saints on holy days. Since it was impossible for sinful men to twang the heavenly lyre, they sought expression in song, in dramatic representation, even in the ancient Kirmess.. The very Sacrifice of the Mass, properly considered, is a celebration—august, it is true, but joyous with robes and music and incense-vapor. It is quite evident there­fore, that everything which the. modern world still preserx'^es of the glorious Christmas spirit is a • legacy from that warm-hearted, human Church which has known the heart of man so long and so well. 
Here in America we, whose forefathers gathered from every nation of the world, have incorporated into the festivities of the season little tokens from all the lands of our birth. We have our dinner which is essentially English; .we have our trees which are the heirloom of the Teuton; we have our Santa for the children who is descended in direct lineage from Peter Stuyvesant. Above all, we have the carols which minstrelsy used to sing in the grim old Border castles; the hymns with which French troubadours warmed the Xmas wine; the little melody which the schoolmaster and the priest wrote out of their hearts when the snow lay thick on the roofs of their German village. Perhaps there is added to all this something distinctively American and audacious—a reck­less lavish .giving that sometimes wreaks itself put in" impulsive, objectless charity. 
_ It" is sad to think, when reading the ballads, the chronicles and the stories of a more genial time, that so much of the festal joy and games and old-fashioned cordiality has been lost to the modern world. It is wonderful, however, ito think, when considering the awful waves of puritanism, evolution arid categorical impera­tive the earth has been forced to swim through, of how much true-hearted, genuine charity, love for children, and self-sacrifice have been left on oui- old planet. This year, naturally, a blight will rest on our happiness^ For no sympathetic mind,-no one that is really capable of entering into the Yuletide- spirit, can help but think of the big, sputtering guns that will kill on Christmas Day. Especially true is this of us whose very ceremonies show how closely our lives are linked with the European fatherlands: We shall see a picture of ruined homes and empty houses, of bleak trees standing 
in the silent snow and of great red pools of blood. Men will charge their enemies on" Christ's ^Day, slay and be slain. Bayonets, will be fixed, trenches dug and Red Cross surgeons kept dismally busy.; And over it all there will be that sad, fruitless message which the angels sang to the shepherds nineteen hundred years ago. Ah, we cannot believe that Mary laid Him in the manger for naught. This war must be more than a greedy commer^ cial conflict, more than a bloody expression of hate. We are certain that Europe is in the throes of a struggle for mighty ideals, for prin­ciples Christ bade her cherish against staiii and corruption. We must believe that some­where there is right and glory and truth. 
It is well for us, then, in this most solemn hour of humanity's life, to reflect that the Church from whom we inherit our Yule­tide, has intended it primarily, as a festal commemoration of the Saviour's birth. It is well for us to go back to that stormy night in Bethlehem, when there was no room at the inn. For out in an unknown corner of an erring world, Mary the Virgin kissed her new-born Babe. . He came simply, humbly,-purely to save that world, which needed, still needs, simplicity and humility and purity. And the shepherds came to adore Him. It-was Jove that brought them, human love for helplessness and homelessness. Let it be a similar love that brings us to His baby feet., When we are joy­fully, cosil}'' harbored in our fathers' houses, let us not forget that misery shivers as she walks the naked streets, that children cry for bread and raiment, that there are many for. whom, too, there is no room at the inn. There:, is no doubt that we'can still give Him a'cup of water. Ah, , then, in the possession "of . that Blessing whose coming made the Judeah hills tremble with delight and welcome, let us not forget to alleviate the poverty and .sadness and wrong of His brethren as best we can. 
When the wassail bowl, is fiUed. and the. Yule songs are fervid and love and generosity light the eyes of all, then is the time to think of Mary and her Infant Son. "When there is. peaceful radiance on the hearth, when the ; breasts of all are lightened from their toil and sin and wrong, when the, candles; glow softly, at" the Midnight Mass, then it is^ that "Merry Christmas" is a phrase of heavenly^ significance and.a red-cheeked greeting ^fresh . from Paradise. ._ 
There Was no Room at the Inn. 
TO-DAY I saw the lily Maid of old No trnmpct sounded on the midnight air. Tread the hard stony waj' of long ago, No banners blazed the way to that lone cave; The hour was late, tlie wind was bitter cold, The earth a soulful sorrow seemed to wear .A.nd all the fields were glistening with snow. . Like one who weeps and watches lij"; a grave. 
But lo! sweet hope gleamed in the Maiden's eye As she drew near to enter 3'our cold heart— I thought T heard a mother's sobbing crj'^ As you drew bock and bade the Maid depart. 
And so at everj' heart she pleads for rest, But oft meii ansv.'er her, "we have no place. No room-to make your little Babe a nest, 
- No room for the Redeemer of our race." 
And through, the night the lily Maid of old Treads the hard waj' that long ago she trod; And men have room, for silver and for gold But few can find a resting-place for. God. 

And so,at last must come the judgment daj', The day of Ijitterness and heavy gloom, " ' ­When the Redeemer of mankind will say "Ye cannot enter here. 'There is no room.'" 
The Passing of 
BY RAY 
AY'S last red beam was smouldering in the sunken west, a star or two had ahead}'- pierced the deepening blue, and the moon which had since earl}'' 
in the afternoon been hiding in tlie. sk}'^, appear­ing and disappearing like some shapeless spectre, was now beginning to take definite shape. It was a December night that is seen only now and then at long intervals. It was not what could be called cold, though the air had a crispness.about it that made one feel it was hot an autumn inonth, and the clear, frost}'­light as it poured over the sleeping fields gave 'everything an appearance of rare beauty. 

As I-paused near the gate of the city my notice was.drawn to a crowd of people folloAving after an old'man, who tottered unsteadily, as he moved oyer the rough.pavement.. His face-was wrinkled with the lines that time had ' drawn there, his hair was silver, and his long snowy beard, as it rested on his breast, made him. look Hke some venerable figure that is so, often seen in pictures and so seldom met with in. real: life. -1. moved nearer until I could distinctly hear the conversation of the, people, :aiid'for:a momehtmy blood almost congealed /in-my-veins. .A.woman in tattered garb, with hair rtahgled' and wild, and. 'with bloody red 
B. Roche. 

 the Old Year. 
 SUTTON. 
eyes was heaping maledictions upon the old man as he feebly moved on his way. "You ruined me," she shrieked in a voice that seemed only half human and she clenched her fist against her enemy.- "You ruined me, you broke up my home, you took my children and left me in the gutter to die-like a dog. I was happy before you came. I had a* home that was a pai-adise, and my children gathered at my knee to say their prayers and smiled upon me, proud to call me mother. My husband loved me and was watchful to my every need and desire. All the world was full of sunshine and happiness and love till you came. You brought the drug which wrecked my life and left me the wretched crea-ture that I am.' A curse be on you for your evil deeds; may you never know another hour of happiness." In the rush and hurry of the throng the ribald woman was : crowded , out arid another voice rang out like sweetest music on the air. I looked. toward the speaker and beheld the most beautiful face I had ever seen. A young girl of not more than sixteen summers whose brow shone like the forehead of a babe and whose large brown eyes mirrored her unruffled soiil, was followirig_close beside the old man. . 
" Farewell, gobd^i friend," she. was saying, 

"you kept me pure and sweet and holy. You showed me the road that Mary trod; you pointed out the fickleness of earthly friends; you helped me step by step along the path of virtue and goodness. I shall ahya3''s remember you no matter how long you haA^e departed." And taking the old man's long bony hand she kissed it and the tears glistened in her eyes. 
We had now come to Convent Hill, and as the girl turned aside to mount the steep, sL boy of about eighteen years of age cried "out in the most vile cursing I had ever heard. His eyes were sunken in his head, and his cheek­bones seemed almost protruding through the yellow skin that covered them. His voice was hoarse and hollow as though it had been exposed to the cold streets and the dampness of night, and he drew short, gasping breaths as he struggled in the crowd and sought to strike the old man_. " I saw you come," he said; "I welcomed you because I tliought you were what you seemed to be. You deceived me. I never dreamed such wickedness could be hidden under that smile. You led me little by little to the gates of hell where I am standing, and now I am too weak and wasted to go back." His frame shook convulsiveh'- as he poured out a volume of oaths and curses on the old man's head, and then I saw bright silver glitter in his hand, but he was grasped by two strong men and hurried away into the darkness. 
As I turned again to look at the old man he was addressed by a sweet-faced old woman, whose smile seemed to light up the earth with new splendor. Her voice was weak but most inexpressively musical. • "God bless you," she said, as the old man was about to pass out through the gate, ''God bless you and keep you always. I have only a little while to linger and then .1 too shall go, but I shall always remember your guiding hand during these last days. You kept me true to m}'- God and my family, and made my last days bright and happy. Good-bye again, and God be with you." And then as the old man tottered out and the great bronze gates swung to behind him, a youth with flaxen curls and large blue eyes tripped softly in" through another gate and the people raising up their voices cheered lustily. From the heart of town the sound of. unseen silver filled the air, the blast of trumpets • sounded sharply and I recognized the youngest child of time whom the people were saluting— the little New Year. 
Yesterday. 
QEE P in my heart to-night fond mem'ries dwellf Faint from the chasm of'the past they swell. Till all my soul floods full in sympathy With by-gone days and things I loved so well. • 
Through Fancy's glass, the past, a fairy maze . Of happy dreams and pleasant lighted ways Seems all of joy and youth and happiness. No sorrows ever blight our yesterdays. -• -^ 
We never think that then was sadness too: The skies of years ago are ever blue. Their radiant suns light all the years between They see no cares and only joy renew. 
A ndre-ic L. McDonoug'^. 
Adeste, Fideles." 
BY MARK L. DUNCAN. 

j^^^^H E Spirit of Christmas is present and 
the whole Christian world is become 
the scene of beauty and love and 
inspiration. ,It is Christmas Eve in 

the little "Swiss village. The villagers are congregating in the streets and" the Spirit of Christmas is upon each one.- It directs their ever>^ light step; it creates a feeling of good­will; it tears away the lines from saddened and haggard faces; it displaces sorrow with cheer,­it makes the hearts beat with a throb that betokens love and peace for everybody and ever}^hing. The gladsome throng presses merrily down the narrow streets. High, high above stretches the mass of" mountain ever­greens, capped with their snowy whiteness. And the moon casts its silvery gleam over-the mountain pass. The moonbeams play upon the faces, of this crowd of the Christmas Eve. 
The people wend their way toward the village court in the open; and there behold the object of their joy—the village Christmas tree.-.In its majestic glory it stands alpne, reflecting the pride of the great forest from whence it came. From its staunch base to its very top it is perfectl}'- shaped. For years and years the court has seen this happy throng; for years and years the" giant tree; for years and years the. Spirit of Chfistmastide. Little children tripping beside their pargnts, all smiling and happy; lovers with their sweethearts, arm in .arm; 
feeble matrons led b}'^ their stalwart sons; old men supported by their mountain-stocks. But the eyes of 3'outh and the eyes of maturity gleam with the same love born of the true Christmas Spirit. The crowd gathers close about the tree; the merriment ceases; then all faces are raised to the pinnacle of the great tree and they behold the figure of the Christ Child. The Spirit is with them. And upon the cold, still, night air bursts forth the old, old 

carol—the  multitude  is  singing  "Adeste,  
Fi deles'':  
O come all ye  faithful  
Joyful and triumphant.  

To Bethlehem hasten now with glad accord; Come and behold Hirn, Eoru the King of angels, O come, let us adore Him! ' 
CHORUS. 
. O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adoi^e Him, O come, let us adore Him, ., Christ the Lord. 
Sing chorus of angels, • 
•Sing in exultation Through Heaven's high arches he your praises 
poured; Now to our God be Glorj'^ in the highest! O come, let us adore Him! 
Yea, Lord, we bless Thee, Born for our salvation, Jesus, forever be Thy name adored! Word of the Father ' ISfow in flesh appearing, O come, let us adore Him! 
On This Day. 
N this day hearts will kiiow no bounds, oceans willmelt into.nothingness and space will be annihilated, and around the Christmas tree of our youth we shall gather and around the crib of our boyhood. .Young hearts will beat.the faster^ as they are 

gathered .back to. the bosom of the' faniily;. .those in; the midst of .life will ..^hasten home "with.jo}'^^ and 3'^earning, .and even the old. and .rfeebie will totter back -nath silver locks . and i;dim .e^'es to.be .children again.,for a day. And -those far-away in .sorrowr.aiid mourning will. rlay. aside.:their grief as they kneeV by the, crib 
of Bethlehem, and will breathe, a fervent prayer :;^WhicTi:, ;tli!£' ang^s of .God' \vill carry ;bkck .to the old home and mothers, . -. ' : 
Noel Long Ago. 
BY SPEER STRAHAN. 

'N the faint twilight the interior of the old cathedral was lost in a world of shadows. Il Brave figures of the saints looked down 
from the high windows into the darkened nave. Loft)'- pillars, great, like tree trunks, rose from the pavement and vanished in the dimness of the vaulted ceiling. Before the altar, the sanctuary lamp - glirnmered out star-like in the shrouding dusk. At one side of the holy place stood the Crib, the figures hidden as 3''et from view by a hanging. Onhr a few people were scattered about the great nave. Near the main aisle v/ere' a middle-aged couple, burghers the}'^ were, waiting calmly, yet expectantly for mid­night. Far across the church near the shrine of Mary, themeinbers of a guild v/ere gathering, while here half-hidden in the gloom, knelt a slender young knight, accompanied by his squire, who waited respectfully a few seats away. In the stalls on either side of the sanctuary, whitfe-habited monks hovered about like angels guarding a shrine. Far up in the choir-loft the organist waited. 
Then suddenly from afar off in the court­yard came the sound, of children's voices: Adeste Fideles Laeti Triumphantes 
The knight raised liis head and listened intently for.a mordent, his heart beating wild, his 3''oung face alight. . • 
Nearer and nearer- they came, the silver}'­strain increasing in A'olume, louder and louder as the clear tones of a chanter struck out to the midnight-: ,. ' 
Natum videte, Regem Angelorum ~ and the others joined in . Venite adoremus Dominum. That song fulfilled the time. The still cathe­dral's air of waiting sudden!}-, dissolved. . Lights flashed forth on all,.sides. .Countless tapers fillttered before Mary's shrine; the curtains were drawn back from the- Cirib, and a soft haze grew. abdiit^^the Divine Babe . and the kneeling Shephenist .Christmas had come again./JS^ary and>Joseph,-the ox and the ass in the backgrqiind:-rthey were all there, even the little ;lambs, that-seeined to huddle close to .the" Crib as if knowing: their Shepherd. 
'---j.-'i'­
•a:^'eff,K^:-^ ^t 
:;-:o??£:-:?^-c.5?;: 

mmmMAmm^mm'i&-^i::^^M 
The Ghristmas Greeting. 
ALIV glory be to God on high 
And on the earth be peace to men. 
.The angels with sweet voices sigh. 
All glory be to God on high. 
For by the star that lights the sky. 
The babe is found by kings of men. 
All glory be to God .on high. 
And on the earth be peace to. men. 
B. G. 
The Evanescent Mr. Hawkins. 
BY .ARTHUR J. HAYES. 
*T was late and the tote team was preparing 
to pull out. It had some thirty miles 
to negotiate ere morning, and. Buck Terrill, 
foreman for the Diamond Hill Outfit's 

third carfip at the headwaters of Rapid River, 
was impatient to be gone. The same philan­
thropy that impelled the Diamond Hill officials 
to pa)'' eighteen dollars a month and board, 
for dawn to dusk labor at temperatures, fre­
quently colder than thirty below, had prompted 
therh to ship out a consignment of turkeys, 
tobacco and fruits that would not, be paid for 
at the commissary. Terrill's soul rejoiced at 
this' munificence. He was hot altruistic, but 
his- influence had long been on "the wane, and 
the assurance that he had "swung the deal" 
might elevate him in the estimation of some 
of the epicures at camp. So he cursed the dila­
tory tactics of Saginaw Hawkins in good round 
accents. Saginaw was not greatly perturbed. 
He had draped himself about a hitching'post, 
and was gravely making a speech. 
With a voice that tripped and gurgled, and 

a mittened hand that described vagarious 
arcs in space, he was tendering his solemn 
assurance that the cbimtry was all right, had 
always been all right, and, with his guidance 
in the future, m.ight be expected to continue 
•all right, indefinitely. His audience, consisting of a small boy and a collie dog, did not seem to be aware that he was directing his remarks toward them. "There aiii';nuh yoose kickin'" he assesverated with pr5foundest conviction, "thish countrish 'all right, shall right alia 
.time.. 'M lookin' after it alia time. Can't , go wrong nohow. So's no ypose kickin' 'tall. 'M doin' muh besh, can complain none, and 
wish 'er wash a little besher—." At this critical^ juncture, Mr. Hawkins conceived" the videa tha't the dog was smiling at him, and forthwith-; waxed highly indignant. He wished it ;iiiade known to the cosmic universe, in no .uncertain fashion, that his judgment was infallible^ and his processes of ratiocination far beyond the vulgar grasp of the commoi herd. He hoped, that he had not been contradicted, as he, had grave reason to believe he had been, he explained-painstakingly, but if siich had been the caseV 
Benson, the sullen and saturnine, had. put in an appearance; Foley, top loader par excel-, lence and, by virtue of his position, privileged passenger, had ensconced hiinself in the sleigh, . mellowed of accent, and rendered broadly "redolent" by certain potions that retailed for two bits per glass, in that particular locality. Pete Nelson, who drove the rat-tailed buck­skins, was impatient, and Terrill, mightily annoyed. They all looked fixedly at Hawkins, and coinmented upon his ancestral line back into the stone age, neglecting not a link in either branch. 'Then Terrill crawled out of the hay , and bore down upon hiin,.wliilfe Benson, Foley, and the driver, cheered in anticipation.­
Hawkins was oblivious to the jeers and cat­calls of his companions. .He had accepted-several hypothetical apologies, and-was discuss­ing the present excellent condition of the country at greater length. The small boy had vanished, but the dog had a master in the Logger's Delight, and had to tarry in that vicinity. : To the luck^ less canine accordingly, ]\ir. Hawkins confided the. sacred truth that if there* was anything : wrong with the country'-, as he (Hawkins) :had occasion to believe, that he (the collie) had / basely insinuated, said circumstance had been perpetrated in his (Hawkins) absence, and^was^^., in nowise to be ascribed to his negligence. He was about to furnish signal and clinching proof of his innocence in the matter of;the. national perversion, when Terrill arrived: 
~ That tvorthy did not remonstrate with tie/ anchored orator. He merely tore him loose_ from the hitching post, dragged him sleighs \ ward by his mackinaw collar, and booted hini, into the hay-laden space in the rear. .Do-svii , the single street they swept, past saloon. and :­dance-hall, store and residence, and oiit linto ;:^ the gloom of the pines. Lights twinlded.to­the rear of them, as the sorrels swting'briskly:' about the bend in the ridge, that ctit off.^iail.' view of the town. It was the evening of itiheV; 
twent3^-fourth of December, and Terrill, who did not want a drunken crew on the twenty-sixth, had issued an edict of embargo, and kept some ninet}* lumberjacks out at camp while he and a select committee journeyed townward, to. acquire some tangible evidences of that impending Yuletide cheer. The night was clear, as all real cold northern evenings invariably are and the boughs of the trees cracked frostil}'-, with a A'^olume of sound not unlike ragged infantr)'^ fire. Pale stars dotted a pale sky, and an indolent moon swung low and red over the black and ragged ever green tops to the east­ward. Onl}- the hissing of the steel-shod runners over snow as dr)'^ as sand broke the silence. Occasionally another sound would serve to emphasize the almost tangible noise­lessness of the woods. Nelson might chirp at the team or Benson profanely aifirm that it would be forty below before morning. The pale sk}'' became darker, the stars brighter, and the red moon less \'ividty crimson. 
Mile after mile the}' sped along the narrow road. Rabbits flitted back and forth across their- path, owls hooted out of the black void on either side. Wolves barked and, howled eerily, but, from the faintness of call, apparently miles away. The party was lulled by the song of the runners and the click-clack of hoofs, into a kind of drowsiness. Nelson thought of a flaxen-haired girl in Cliristiana, and hoped to spend the next Christmas with her. Benson ruminated upon a misspent life, and reflected that he might have smuggled some booze into, his duffle bag. Terrill visualized a tin}'^ boy out at camp who would crow with joy over the red fire engine and the pudg}'- horse with the painted wagon and the tedd};- bear with the jet eyes. Foley thought of his mother in Tipperary, arid hoped that his Christmas offering would arrive in the "old sod" on time. , 
And.thus in silent reverie time^ might have passed until they swmng round the curve and into the chip-littered camp yard. '' Might have'' advisedl}'', for Fate, in close conjunction with 

, Hawkins, had decided that such was not to be. 
He had been persuaded by much punching and jostling to burrow under the ha}'-, and preserve a golden and dearly purchased silence. But" his saturated soul ^yrithed within him. 

-He felt; keenly the aspersions of the collie. -What right had. that misguided creature to affirm that all was not well among us, when 
no less a personage than Hawkins himself had maintained that the situation was all that ' could be desired? Mile after mile he brooded upon the ignominy of being van­quished on the subject of national welfare. He must, he would (and he did) frame a crush­ing retort. Accordingly the heaped -up hay erupted suddenl}'-, and a rehabilitated Hawkins loomed forth. Hay supplied wig and mustache for the mackihawed Demosthenes. Stramineous pendants hung from his arms as he waved them in one grand gesture. Benson cursed and strove to haul him down by the leg. Fole}'- expressed open fears about the safet}?" of his neck if he once lost his balance. Terrill commanded him to sit down, with' sundry embellishments of futile profanit}'-. But upon one and all, Hawkins turned a blearily benign countenance, waggled an uncertain paw, and repeatedly gave it forth 
as  his  unalterable  conviction  that  "Thash  
wash  all right."  .  
And  so  he  continued  unmolested.  Waving  

back and forth in the speeding sleigh, waving mittened hands in erratic curves and circles, achieving miracles of facial contortions, Mr. Hawkins challenged the collie, twenty miles back in Rapid Citj'^, to expressly affirm or deny that the countrj'' was "shall right, an' mush besher nor could be expected." Construing failure to repl}'' as admission of defeat, Mr. Hawkins magnanimousl}'^ forgave the absent canine for A'^enturing to smile at him, and con­ferred as a special token of remission of guilt, full and free permission to smile thereafter when and wherever the spirit moved him. 
They were then entering upon a long stretch of corduroy. The muskeg ' swamp stretched 
-away for miles on either side, flat, and dreary, the surface dotted by darker patches where hummocks of moss broke through the ghostly white surface. 
Hawkins, champion of the present state of national solidarit)'^, and vanquisher of the collie, was taking violent exception to an impudent expression on the face of the moon: He wished the latter to explain at once when it had ever received permission to be there at all, let alone to cast any innuendo upon his oratory. He demanded an explanation. 
Wliether one would have been forthcoming; it were at this-time difficult to state. For a cedar pole in the corduroy, displaced by some careless driver, earlier in the day, performed the brilliantly eccentric ceremony of "up­
ending." Mr. Hawkins vaulted abruptly moon-ward, as if to execute sundry sinister threats, and then precipitated himself upon Nelson, who acknowledged receipt of his person by fall­ing out of the sleigh. The tauteiiir-g of the reins swung the sorrels, rearing and plunging, into the swamp. The pole broke, the sleigh cap­sized, traces parted and the terrified team betook itself homeward. Nelson, hanging tenaciously to the ribbons, disappeared in a glor}'- of powdered snow, in the wake of the sorrels. Terrill dug himself out of the moss hummock, and after a fer^dd pra3'-er to the powers of darkness, awaited brimstone to blight and shrivel the erring Hawkins. Foley implored assistance for the purpose of removing the edge of the sleigh box from his neck. Ben­son clawed, frantically at thirty turkcA'-s that pinned him down, and by much kicking and scratching conveyed to the outside world the fact that he ardently desired to get from-under the up-turned sleigh. Nelson, who had been last seen producing a shower effect in a snowbank, emerged spectre-like, to con­fess lugubriously that he simply couldn't continue with those blanket3'^-blanked sorrel unmentionables! 
After some time, • somebody thought of Hawkins. One and all expressed an abiding conviction that he had broken his dam fool neck, punctuating the obser^'ation v/ith brief annotations of fervent malice and the - ardent hope that they were not mistaken. Despite sprains and bruises, they righted the sleigh. There indeed lay Benson, but no crushed and mangled Hawkins met their straining eyes. They searched on both sides of the road. They demolished the drift that had received Nelson to- its bosom. They halloed until hoarse. But no challenger of the moon hove 
.in view. Fear settled upon them. It was positively uncanny. Terrill even began to-wonder aJTrightedl}'-, if the infernal -powers had indeed made away with him. Wolves howled continually, much closer this time and the little gathering shifted imeasily, and fin­gered the butts of rifles and revolvers. They could not leave the haunted spot. Common humanity demanded that they protect Hawkins' absent corpse, if dead, and wounded person, 
if alive. It was suggested that fatally injured he had crawled away to die, though "where in tarnation" he could have crawled to, was matter of much profane conjecture. ­
Accordingly, a fire was kindled, and all huddled about the snapping embers. Foley recalled the good qualities of the evanescent Hawkins, and others agreed in husky tones, that he was after all but one degree removed, from . saintship; At that moment sleigh biells' broke upon , their ear. Jack Constantine, homesteader and scaler for the Diamond Hill Outfit hove into view. He drove a raw-bphed roan, and led the sorrels. "JBreezed into "my place about two this mornin'," he explained," "plumb hell bent fer election." The groiip remained grim and silent^ Tefrill' strove with stiff lips to speak. Constantine awoke to the fact that further explanations were desired. "The driver's clo'es are sure frazzled, but'he aint hurt to speak of. Too full, I guess." He tui'ned to the awe^stricken foremanj " I shouldn'^t a' thought you'd let a drunk drive. Buck." He could not comprehend the silence, nor the queer expressions that wreathed the features of the -wrecked party. "Funny how the liiies was wrapped arpun' his*leg," he "coutfmied. "They like to 'a' cut his boot off, an' his.duds were more ice nor any thin,' but Hawkins hisself weren't hurt' a darn."' "Hawkins!" shrieked an agonized chorus. "Wh}"-.' sure" rejoined Constantine," "aii he's full of Three Star an' turkey at my place this mihnit." "' 
And there it was that "a great light broke upon the rescuers. Of course it afforded them some satisfaction to witness the contrition of the wanderer. Swathed in a horse-blanket, much battered of countenance, but iinshaken in soul, he sat up in the bunk to bid .them welcome. In his right hand was a sadly depleted bottle of brandy. In his left he clutched a "drumstick."- He waved it in recognition of the half-frozen "giroup that staggered in. "Merry Chrishmus" he greeted them. "Besh 'ol countr}- there ish," he added; waving the turkey leg and bestoAving a kindly glance about the room. "Doin' all I can to shave 
_ 

a  countr}'-," he  continued.  "Besh  whazzer is.  
Thash  all  right."  
<• —  '•  ,  • r •  
A Christmas Thought.  •  '  
A T  Bethlehem  was  born  
•For  us  a  little  .Child,  
So early in the inofn.  '_'.'-.  
At Bethlehem was bom,  --•  
He whom our sins have torn  •  ..  

And wicked tongues reviled. .. . . At Bethlehem was bom , ­For us a little Child. ' B.'B. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Football Review. 

After all the excitement of the past three months, after existing in an atmosphere where the latest dope was served with the hot buns every morning at breakfast, and where the evening meal was just the beginning of the discussion on "how the team went to-da}^"— after alternate periods of eager hope and black depression that * followed the various games, it seems a rather tame and thankless task to review a season on paper that has been lived 
" through so intense^. Every man University has a well-defined series of mentaL "movies" depicting the practice scrimmages and big games that made up the season, but just as we may know all the component parts of a big panorama as it unrolls before our eyes, yet it is alwa3'^s best to stand afar off and, from the proper perspective, get a view of what the whole looks like. So with the past season. It is over now, and with it are gone the flashes of feeling born of the moment; with the happy Christmas days ahead to put the importance of football in its relative position, and the knowledge that there is a great deal of sane and logical exposition to be handed out when we meet "the other fellows" in the next few-weeks, we can take a good calm look at the Notre Dame season-of 1914, and pack away a few happy thoughts for future reference. 
It was a season of ups and downs, though after November 7th, the ups t | shot right skyward to a grand finale I on Thanksgiving Day. The downs 
.were only two in. number but they were hard bumps. The first was such 
a. crash that it squeezed flat eyery 
 at the 

b}'' the way. Most of them had put in a summer of hard work as every man knew what, the season had in store, but after a week of stren­uous practice, all were willing to grant that the summer had been an idle dream—they knew that the European campaigns held no hardships for them. By the time the greenest Freshman knew Eichenlaub, Willie Case and Pete Yerns, and the Seniors had heard the bloodthirst}'- feelings of their brothers, Hayes and Schuster, toward poor Mexico, the squad was settling down to business. With twelve of the monogram men back. Coach Harper had a splendid nucleus to build on. Fitzgerald, El ward, Keefe, Jones and Lathrop in the line, and Eich, Pliska, Duggan, Finegan, Ber­ger, Kelleher, and Larkiii in the backfield, were all on the job, and working hard.. With them were Cofall and Bachrnan, stars of the ,'13 Freshman,. and a good reserve of valuable men-to draw from for substitutes. Fighting the regulars for berths, were Mills, Ward, Holmes, Baujan, Stephan, King, Welch, H. O'Donnell, Miller, Roach, Dal}^, Thorpe, Sharp, Bush, Odam, Qrady, Beh, C. O'Donnell, Voelkers, and Kowalski. Graduall}'' the men round­ed into shape, and.gradually a fast team was built up, with Fitzgerald at centre, Keefe and Bachman at guard, Capt.". Jones and Lathrop -at tackle. Mills and Elward at the wings, Cofall at quarter, Finegan and Pliska at halves and Eich at full. This was the lineup—with the exception of Jones who was out with injuries—^that was picked to meet Alma in the first game of 
HAKPER. ^ijg. season. ; ­
 COACH  pocket As had beien expected. Alma was downed in 
book in the University. Every , loj'^al Notre good stjde by a 56-0 score. Old-fashioned Dame man will swear there was a total eclipse football was resorted to almost entirely, and of the sun between 2:30 and 4:30 P. M., October for the first game, the team went well. Berg­17, 1914. : :-} man, who had just arrived at. school three 
But this is no way to begin—we must com­days before, playedquarter the last few mo­mence at the start. Said start was about the ments, and presaged 'his' wonderful work in 
Ttenth of September, when trains ; from East the later, contests : by - several, quick dashes and West began to convey Coach Harper's through the ^Michigsin boys. . Cofall played cohorts of former years to the mobilization a fine game at quarter, and the rest of the camp at Cartier Field—which the Canadian, backs, played .in good st5''le! government has plagiarized into Val Cartier, The next week of: strenuous practice was" 
es«s-^.~>­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
marred by the most costly accident of the season—Eich strained a tendon of his leg in practice, but the injury was not thought severe enough to keep him out of the Rose 
Poly game. 103 to o, what kind Blue had 
The score of the latter contest was indicates with ' sufficient accuracy sam .
of a game it was. The Gold and made great improvement during 

the preceding week, and its interference was perfected to a greater extent than seemed possible at such an early date. To the more experienced observers, however, the line seemed to be still lacking in team play. 
Then came the preparations of the first big game. Yale was feared as a strong opponent, biit so great was the confidence of the student 
. body that anyone who had his doubts about the outcome, kept them-to him­self to prevent ridicule. Injuries to Bachman, Lathrop and Jones, and Eich's bad leg were great handicaps; but no one seemed to realize that having these men out of the game for nearly the entire practice season made machine-like team work practically impossible. When the squad left for Yale it carried the brightest hopes of the students. 
It is no use drawing a curtain.over what followed—the Klis, with the aid of a wet, hea\^'-field, all the breaks of luck, and their own better team work and generalship, chalked up 2.8 points, while the whistle at the end of each half, with Notre Dame's ball on Yales' two and three-^'-ard line, respectively, 
robbed the Gold and Blue of at least . twelye points. Capt. Jones' men fought splendidly, and individually were easily the ' equal of thier opponents, but the}"-had not the advantage of the united team work and hard practice games of the latter. And though Eastern critics were uniformly severe in point­ing out the defects of the Gold and.Blue, " they all spoke in terms of liveliest admiration of the pluck and grit displayed by the men, who, "when all was lost save honor," drove back their, opponents in a savage attack that was stopped by the whistle, almost-on the very goal line, of the Blue. That the whole school, faculty and students, appreciated the work of the team was e^^dent when, on the following Monday afternoon, Notre Dame was deserted and the team got oS at the Lake 
Shore depot to the music of a thousand cheer­ing voices. 
With a hard game against South Dakota looming directly ahead, Coach Harper allowed his men no rest. The Yale game had shown weak spots that needed strengthening, and three days of the most strenuous practice were gone through before the squad left for South Dakota. The backfield presented a new alignment, owing to injuries and experi­ments. Bergman played quarter, Finegan went to full, and .Cofall and Xarkin took care of tifcie halves.' The Coyotes were snowed under. 33-0, being unable to cope with the varied attack of the invaders, and especiali;f the rabbit­like dashes of the diminutive Bergman.^ " 
Then came the inevitable slump. The men had been going at top. speed since September, and when the Haskell game caine there was very little "pep" left. The Indians put up a hard, stubborn, resistance, arid might have .won had they been able to stop Notre Dame's AH-Western quarterback who streaked through their line and around the ends for three touchdowns. 
When the Army ga,me rolled around a week later the men were just getting back into fighting trim. Two of the stars who had a great share in Notre Dame's victory the previous year, Eich­enlaub and Finegan, were unable to play, arid this fact, coupled

AssT. COACH ROCKNE 
with two costly^ • fumbles, gave the Army victory, 20-7. Notre Dame's' score came in the third quarter when they fairly ripped their opponents to shreds. -In ­the last quarter, the soldiers were held for four downs inside the Notre Dame five-yard line: Duggan, Cofall and Pliska time and again made long gains through the line and around the ends. The work of the line was the best of the year—^the men played together and, in the second.half held like a rock. 
AND THEN—CAiaiSLE., 

When four hundred of the Notire Dame students ' and 12,000 Gfiicagoans thronged into Comiskey Pai-k on last October 14th/­they little. knew the wonderful exhibition of ­football that lay ahead of them. A seemingly : 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
regenerated Notre Dame team smeared the Indians so badly that ten years of their past histor}' doesn't show another defeat like it. With Eich back in the game again, and determined to show that he had lost none of the ability of former years, with the whole team in fine ph3-sical shape and playing as the}' had not pla3'^ed during the whole season, almost better than their best, the Redmen never had a chance. Their line was shattered, their wings turned and their defence simply demoralized by a succession of terrible drives b}' the redoubtable Eich, wonderfull}^ spectacular rushes by Cofall and Kelleher, and long twisting, dodging runs bj'the little speed marvel at quarterback. For­ward passes were used with great effect, "Mai" Elward gathering in several beautiful long heaves. The line men completel}'- outplayed their opponents, Calac being the only Indian to gain. Altogether it was the finest exhibition of football seen in the West this year, and the 48 -.6 score will go down in Notre Dame history. 
After this contest King Winter gave the men an enforced rest—two feet of snow isn't conducive to good football. The gym "\vas utilized, however, and wdien, after ten days' time, the Gold and Blue took the field against the conquerors of Michigan, it was with a confident hope- in the result. This confidence was not misplaced. The Saltines were unable to' check the ravages of the Notre Dame backs led by Eichenlaub, who played what was perhaps the greatest game of his career. Cofall; 
-Bergman, and Kelleher again starred on-long 
. runs, while the Notre Dame ends, Mills and Elward, checked'most of the Orange attempts in that, direction. The line played a remarkable game, holdirg their, opponents safe at all times, and. holding them for downs - on the two-yard line,^. at the ver}'- end of the game. It was a .fitting finale, to what was on the whole, with fair consideration of all the adverse circumstances, a successful season. . 
The season is over, the games are past, the scores are a matter of history, but the memory of the men who in victory and in defeat always gave.the best they could, will not pass. 
.Because, of-her two defeats. Western critics in picking their mythical All-Western team, .have been, chary.of choosing men from Notre, Dame.; Some, with the Conference always in their eyes, have selected teams made up almost entirely of Conference players. In the classic 

words of comedy, "It is to laugh." We should 
watch with great interest, and even greater 
amusement, a Conference team going through 
the schedule that faced Notre Dame this year. 
Notre Dame, Michigan, the Aggies, Nebraska— 
not in the class of the Conference? Ask an 
unprejudiced. follower of Western sport—he 
may agree that they're not—he puts them on 
a higher plane. 
And yet, some Notre Dame men have been so good that they could not be passed up under any circumstances. Eckersall, the dean of the Western critics, has placed Bergman on his All-Western team,- and explained that the only reason Eich was not given the full­back position was his absence from the game the greater part of the season. Charlie Bach-man, the giant guard who has made such a splendid showing all through the year, has been awarded a position on the second All-Western. On the All-State- teams, Notre Dame has fared better. The critic of the Indianapolis News has put five Notre Dame men on his first team, while the sporting editor of the Star includes seven wearers of the Gold and Blue in his premier lineup and five on the second. 
This review of the season w^ould not be complete without a proper tribute to the sub­stitutes. These men, who spend just as much time, who work just as hard, and -who receive all the hard knocks that a regular gets, with little of his glory, are at the basis of every successful season. According as the}'' give the regulars a hard tussle every da}!-, the latter are tliat much better fitted for the crucial contests. They haA'-e Avorked untiringly, willingly doing as much as they could that Notre Dame might profit, and their praise should have no stint. 
To the men Avho coached the team we owe the highest measure of thanks. Coach Harper this year gave Notre Dame a schedule second to none in the country; he worked untiringly to produce the best results, and these results speak for him. He had a tremendous amount of work on his shoulders and to the students and those who know him, his ability needs no remark. 
In Rockue, Coach Harper had an assistant than whom no better could be found anywhere in the country. "Rock," himself one of the best men who ever donned.^the canvas, is not only a fine coach in a technical sense, he has a power, of personal magnetism that attracts 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
< 
> 
XIX 
c 
> 

2l6 7HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
his men and makes them willingl}'- do their a football game, were almost useless throughout best. Before the first game, Notre Dame the season.. Yet this did not deter the" plucks-looked up against it at the wing positions— captain. He started every important game • Elward was very light, and there was a big although "he knew that the-^ result might be hole at the other end. But in the Syracuse permanent injuries to himself.- He Avas always game the ends played in such a wa}'' as to. show fighting, alwas^s urging, his men pn, always the results of a season of "Rock's" truly remark­giving the best-there was in him. In the plucky able coaching. One more thing about "Rock;" stands that biir nien made on the one-yard though he ma)'^ not be aware of it', he is about line at West Point arid at S^Tacuse, no one was the finest satirical humorist at Notre Dame— more active than Jones. Pie, like Captain an afternoon on the sidelines, with- Rockne" - Rockne of last 5''ear, starred at the open game. putting the line men through a hard drill, In almost, eyerj^ gaine "Deak" received one is easil}' worth tlu-ee performances at' the-or .more-passes and-in. the Carlisle game he Orpheum. : -brought the^cfpwd^ to. its feet-.by grabbing off Nineteen-fourteen is past, but Notre Da,me long 'passes on \n6' less" .than, four occasions. will long remember the men who inade. it, Jones has firiished his.football career and we successful, the men who, even in defeat; stood can ^wish him, nothing' better-than' that his life 
out as among the finest examples of her fighting., mas'- be as successful as his activities for Notre 
•spirit Notre Dame has ever had. Danie .have,.been;; ' - .. -; -1 'r 
. ' VRAYTVIOND: J. EiCHENLAUBJ Fullback." -• The Football Men of '14. ;There/"w-a^s .ah almost jp^thetic element about Kichenlaub's--.last -days on.:the--gridiron. He . -The men who answered , Coach Harper's, had "t\\Hce;-been/ chosen.;all-Wes.tern; fullback; call for candidates for the football team last, last ..year everi^ Camp' "recoghized "his' abilit}'^ September comprised one of the finest squads 
•Jb}'^ ranking.himlsecond onl}';'ito'.-Brickley. This that has ever assembled on Gartier. Field.­
. year,;,with: Brickley".6iit.;:6f-the game, " Eich'' The men reported in splendid physical condi­
seemed- sufe.'.of;. the "honor .which his ability tion; the}'- were ready to undertake,the hardest 
deser\''ed-^AlUAmerican fuUback;^^^^^^^ fate was schedule ever, prepared for a Notre Dame team., 
against - him. r He: was .injured in practice and Yet scarce a; single man of this splendid squad 
was ..able .to ;play only' a, single' quarter before Avas able to go thrpugh the season without'. 
-;.tlie Yale gariie.fv"At;:New TTayen, his injured an injury. This fact, perhaps more, than anj'' 
kne.e;.gavefw.a,y"at:the very;;s^^^ of. the game, other^. shows" how great, a sacrifice "the men ? 
but' he.,piayed''thrpugliout the first'-lialf, unwill­made for the success of; pur team. Mam'^Jof; 
ing;^to;le*ayjC^heg^^^ them sta.rted games - when they ;.shoiild{ have 
ularfif ty-5'^'ard'dash ;=that? started i JsTotre' Dame's . been dn- the',hospital,' and they expressed :the.^ 
:>kllyj at;;';the|i!ldse-^^^^ Yale 
spirit- of the entire team. Notre-:Danie":lias:\ 

game<a!n^f that^^^^ an ;-iridication 
/ always had a- vteam "of A'fighters,'^;"; and5 she ;
:;'of/wljatJ^^^ichll been 
• -• .never had rnen who fought-bettervthamrthisi 
^fitv^^liAi^lptig^rl^ • 
;ye£tr's . wamorSiV^They: werei. defeated =?^^ 
in.^'conyitiori^"ffi 
true;'; biittieynieyer'quit.'The spiritf 

.:lie'playedlbett|0tli£m^^^ in 
' ; byv^ each individual ;oh;tlie team inak'esv>^him ,•
.rtheiJdne|oiK 
^^orth a^rvolumeof praise but we.ckuTgiy^^ 
;: he ? wasV(easn;^ttfe 
}::. . '^^^^ 
fgaine"s.'.iYHis*%bsehcet,from^^^ 
r;f":Eich.!4/fro^^^ 
_J:butfin|tKeJ^eaft^^^ 
?• r• 0^^^ thechbnor ofsileadingC : '^:> .<1tii'e^iNp^ oDame.7;team thisv^ year - andf ad^ aU:;; .- <;^V^|tim&}'Jiei.sliowed the, true spirit;of a;;U6adef;w' 
three. 

-•f^{:.^^'^-/^:i^[^on^ but of the game at the "start : , ; f KiM^t^-!^ injuries and he,. likeiEicheri-^; .\:?f;JC&la^^ Yale ;game,, with scarce ah •; is elsini. -i ^x^a^d^if^e^<y^{§B2^G^s T5 ;^i^3l:aLny-real 'preparation. ;'' Deak's " jhahdsr which-best V:c*?l^9?KadS:^wa^^ jhis"mostVvaluable,^ asset- in " 
^i>r2^--i/-l^-A 

wmmsmmMm 
5l-Cg.^^"?m^i-. 

who carried the ball into the shadow of the West Point goal just before Notre Dame made her only touchdown. Kverj'-one sincerely regrets that Duggan cannot return next year for as first string fullback he would undoubtedly gain recognition throughout the football world. 
WiLivTAM A. KELLEHER, Halfback.' 
For the first time since his freshman year, 
Kelleher was able to show his real ability on 
the gridiron. For two previous seasons, 
injuries had made him inactive, but this year 
he reported in good physical condition and he 
made* a successful bid to regain the position 
he held in 1911. The wealth of halfbacks at 
the beginning of the year made the outlook 
discouraging for "Bill" but the little "Irish­
man" showed his fight and he simpty couldn't 

be held back. His pluck finally won and he 
was in the regular line-up for the last three 
weeks of the season. He played well at West 
Point, at Chicago and at Syracuse. In the 

latter game, his defense work was one of the 
features of the contest; in fact Kelleher and 
Cofall were of inestimable worth as defensive 

halfbacks in every game. Kelleher will not 
return and in losing him, Notre Dame loses 
155 pounds of real Irish fighting spirit. 
ALVIN BERGER, Halfback. 

"Heine" is a football pla)'er"to whom Notre Dame owes a great deal. He has faithfully served the Gold and Blue for four years and he has served just as faithfully in defeat- as* in victor}'-. It is useless to again enumerate Berger's abilities for we have lauded him time and again during the past four years. • His admirers believe that he might have been used more often this )'-ear; but perhaps Coach Harper is saving the "Dutchman's" good right arm for the baseball season. "Heine" was a wonder in practice this year and whenever he got. into the game, he proved the same old "Heine" of '11 and '12. He was always good for a gain; he often tackled the enemy for a loss. He was especialh'- good at furnishing interference. "Heine" leaves- us this year but his athletic achievements are.'indelibly impressed oh the minds of all true Notre Dame men. He will carry into life's battles the :fighting spirit of an N. D. athlete and he is destined for such success upon life's gridiron as -he has experienced while striving for his 
Alma Mater. . . : -^^ 
STANLEY B . COFALL, Halfback. '•'[ \-.f 

September, 1913 was an unusually lucky month for Notre Dame for it was then that "Stan" arrived. He soon became the cynosure of all eyes and even before he donned: his moleskins, the unanimous opinion of aU the fans was "There- is a valuable-man." - The fans were not mistaken. Cofall became captain of Notre Dame's* first-. Freshman team;. He was the most feared man in-interhall.-Under, the coaching of Father Ouinlan, he developed swiftly, and soon became known as- the Sbrin teani. This year Cofall joined the Varsity ' squad. Before Bergman reported he was used at quarterback, but as soon as theHttle "Dutch-. man" began to show his form as a general, Cofall was shifted back to his naturaF position" halfback. The young Clevelander -possesses a stature, face and personality that make hitn an ideal athlete. He has great speed; he is a brilliant open field runner and a consistent, line-plunger. His trusty toe is always good for . a fifty yard punt or a long field goal. As a \ defensive back, Cofall had hot a superior-in the world; and above all he never quits fighting. He is the only one of our many brilhant backs who started every game this year and he was easily the leading scorer accounting for 86 of the total of 22S points. The best part of this whole account is that Cofall is only begin­ning his career. He has two more years to play for Notre Dame. We know those years will be filled with glory for Cofall and we hope that as a culmination of his efforts, he may'lje ^ crowned with an all-American wreath. ' '--'•'' 
RALPH G. LATHROP, Tadde. -_ 

Lathrop displayed the same consistent fight-. ing ability that characterized* his work last; year. He knew his part in every play.and he executed it well. -He charged with a drive that opened gaping holes in an. opponent's line. His tackles were sure and hard and time after time; he dropped halfbacks :before they . couM get started. "Zipper'' was ,the lightest man^pn the,line between the ends, but he was also on,e; of the best. On the defense he held.like the^ . traditional stone wall.. His speed: enalDledxjjipi ­to cover more ground than .the-ordinar3'-ta^j& does. "Lath" ::w-as-not always in the.best;of condition as he was the victim of several :; injuries but he played in air thef. imporSnt,v games, doing his best work in the face of defeat^ ? 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC • 
Lathrop has another year to play and we hope to see him back. CHARLES W . BACHMAN, Guard. 
Along with Cofall, there came to Notre Dame in September, 1913, a giant from Chicago. The giant was Bachman, and he too became a member of our first Freshman team and an interhall star. He played fullback for the "Freshies" and tackle for Corby. He was originall)'^ a backfield man but the able coaching of Father Farle}'^ soon made him an efficient lineman. This year he was chosen .to fill the position on the Varsit}'^ line left vacant when Fitzgerald was moved from guard to centre. "Bach" is a man of powerful stature and yet with the agiUty of a cat. In a game he is every­where, smashing j)la3'-s, ^ downing runners in the open and producing breaches of enormous \vidth in the opponent's line. He is a sure tackier and hits low and hard. In short, "Bach" V7as a priceless asset to the. team. At Yale he played Talbott, the all-American tackle off liis feet and sAvept everj^thing before 
him; and he never slowed up in the later games. He easily captured all-State honors and should, we believe, have been selected for the all-Western. However, "Bach" is to return to win new and greater laurels in '15. and '16. ' 
FREMONT FITZGERALD, Centre. 
•
After two. successful seasons at guard, Fitz­gerald was shifted to centre to fill the hole made by Feeney's absence. "Fitz" played centre at Columbia Prep School and this experience stood him in good stead this 3'^ear. He played just as effectively in his new posi­tion as he had in his old one. His passing was perfect and his accuracy was of great value to the team. The big Oregonian was especially prominent in.; the interference, being able to get in front of the runner in a way which few centres can duplicate. "Fitz" starred in the Carlisle game, breaking through the line and making many deadly tackles. His consistent work won hini the pivot position on the all-State team. Next year will be"" Fitz's" last one on the team and his selection as captain of the I9i5,teani.was a happy one. He should prove a; popular-and a capable leader and we wish him all success. -;: j ~ ^ ­

•r
 r> :. EMMETT KEEFE, Guard. .^"-~ .;: :VTKeefe again fUled .his pp^^^ guard 



and he did it wonderfully well. He was handi­capped at times by injuries but whenever he was able to be on the field he was the same quiet, dependable, trusty Keefe, A more deserving man never wore an N. D. He has ability and he has spirit. He is not afraid to work and he shows the results of plugging. Last year he was-tutored by Edwards, and this year b}* Rockne; and under the able guidance of these men he has constantly grown better until he is a finished "guard. There is nothing spectacular about Keefe's work; yet seldom does a man go through his position and he has the liapp3'' faculty of being where he is most needed. Most admirable, perhaps, of all Keefe's excellent qualities, is his modesty. If consistency and grit count for anything, Keefe's narne will long be remembered at Notre Dame. He has one more year to play , and we will welcome him back. 
RUPERT F . MILLS, End. The ever popular "Rupe" added football to his list of sports this fall and became a first string end. Pie was not an experienced man and hence was the daily pupil of Coach Rockne. B)'- the middle of the season, Mills "had mastered the fine points of end play and had learned to use his strength to the best advantage. He played an unusually brilliant game against the Army and he kept up his good work against CarHsle and Syracuse. "Rupe's" height and his basketball experience made him a valuable man in the open game and he was often the target of long passes from Bergman and Cofall. Mills has another year to play but he has not yet- decided to return. In case he comes back, this year's experience should make him a candidate for, high honors. 
ARTHUR B . EARKIN, Halfback, Quarterback. 

"Bunny" was again kept out of a regular berth by the wealth of backfield material.­He displayed greater abilit}'' this year than ever before and he was used in all of the impor­tant, games. He \yas used at half in the Yale and South, Dakota contests. After the latter contest he was shifted' to quarter and proved an efficient understud)'^ for Bergman. Earkin displayed; all the qualities of, a field general, running plays off rapidly and mixing them well. He starred against Carlisle,. and Syracuse, 
:his forward .-passing in the former game being the bestof ;the year. Earkin is a versatile man. 
7HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 221 
a speedy open field runner, a good line plunger and a strong defensive man. He has another 
year  to  play  and  bids fair  to  come  into  his  
own  next  year  as  Bergman's  successor  at  
quarter.  
HARRY  C. BAUJAN,  Knd.  

For four years, Baujan has been regarded as one of the best ends in interhall. He did his prep work at Notre Dame and is in evory sense a Notre Dame.man. This is one reason wh}' we are proud of Harr}''; another is that he is a real football pla5'er. He was battling hard for a regular job throughout the season and started two important games. He always , pla3'-ed well when called upon. He is built well for his position and he, like Mills, developed swiftly under the coaching of Rockne. Baujan starred in the South Dakota combat, grabbing oil numerous passes for a touchdown. He plaA'^ed another brilliant game against Haskell, his open field tackles being one of the features of the contest. Hoxry is a close student of the game and has, we believe, tAvo brilliant seasons yet before him. 
Lso J. STKPHAN-, Guard. 

At the beginning of the 1913 season, "Steve" had grown to such a degree of corpulency that he thought it best to indulge in some soft of weight-reducing exercise. Interhall football was the means chosen. The plan worked so well last season that again, this year, "Steve" followed it out;. but this year the Varsity benefited by his activities. Those who thought Stephan could do nothing save reduce his weight, were soon disillusioned; for he forced men with great reputations to sit on the bench while he was filling a guard's position. The best of his record is that the lighter Steve grew the more efficient his playing became. He took his work serioush' and he did it well. Rockne .developed Stephan splendidly and near the close of the season it was no uncommon sight to see the popular guard from the "alley" resisting the force of four or five opponents without yielding an inch. This is Steve's first year of football. We are glad to see him win his monogram and" we hope to see him a regular linesman next year." 
GEORGU N . HOLMES, Tackle." Last but not least among the monogi'am men comes "Duck}'-" Holmes. "Ducky" came to us last. year from Nebraska. He filled a 
tackle's po.sition on the freshman team'and played interhall with Brownson, winning a place on the all-Hall team. This season "Duckj'-" did football sendee on the Varsity. He fought hard in every practice, he made the most important trips, and he won a monogram by playing a hard game against Haskell. Those who saw Holmes bowl over the red­skins on Cartier Field are confident that he can fill a linesman's position on any team in the country. The presence of such stars as Lathrop and Jones kept "Ducky" on the bench most of the time but he will return for two more sea­sons and will have a chance to win a regular berth. . 
THE RESERVES. 

Lack of space prevents us from doing justice to the men who worked with the team all year but were not fortunate enough to win monograms. Yet their work deserves great 
•praise
 for they took the kicks and cuffs of the Varsity all year without sharing in the actual glory of conflict. Theirs was no small part in developing the team. Of these men, Hugh O'Donnell, centre, Gilbert Ward, guard. Art Sharp, tackle, -HolHs King, end and Voelkers, guard, were taken on someof the trips. O'Don­nell made every trip and was ^ used against Carhsle and South Dakota. Every fan knew that Hugh could fill "Fitz's" place.whenever 

•
 it became necessary but it was seldoni neces­sary. We hope to see O'Donnell win a mono­gram next year. Sharp and Ward worked in the line and were of about equal merit. Bach was used-a number of times and both wiU return next year to try to fill regular positions. Voelkers showed well in the early part of the year and made the Yale trip. He was not given a chance in the latter part of the season. King played both tackle and end, although the latter is his natural position. He made the Yale and South Dakota trips. Odam and Beh did good work in the Hue. 


Behind the line, nine men won monograms and substitutes were given little chance. John Miller showed fine promise at fullback and will be a Hkely candidate for that position next year. Miller scored two touchdowns against Rose Poly. George Kowalski worked at half all year but a new man had little chance among our many star halfbacks. To every man who was on the squad we extend our thanks and oiuT/best wishes for future success. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Game of Life. 
came upon life's football field. They were a varied crowd. The bleecliers of the world were filled, The cheers were long and loud; And all were there, the foul and fair, The humble and the proud. 
The referee lined up the men. The tackles and the guards. 
The linesman with his telling ta]:e Was quick to count the yards. And vict'ry old was there with gold 
For prizes and awards. 
The whistle blew and at the crash Some stood and others reeled. The weakest men all bruised and torn Were carried from the field. And in the test only the best Refused their ground to jneld. 
Oft did a plaj'er free himself From all who stood around, And start for the long-hoped-for goal With a most ardent bound. But diving low a watchful foe Would bring him to the ground. 
And so the game went on until . From out the crowd there came A man who wore the gold and blue 
Of loyal Notre Dame, And as he dashed, his N. D. flashed And sparkled like a'flame. 
The people in the stand arose, It was a sight to see; T heard a group of rooters give A rousing U. N. D., And as it died, it echoed wide A crv of victorv. 7". Ilanner. 
FRESHMEN 
Freshman Football. 

If. you are, downhearted when you think of next year's football prospects, it is because you^ are facing .the wrong way. Don't look at the men who are: graduating but turn around and look at the bunch that is coming in—^that Freshman Team^and if you don't smile in cohtentment it, is because you have eaten 
 TEAM. 
supper out at school and not because of the football outlook. 
We have Callahan, Miller, Whalen, Malone, Wolfe, Ryan and Mclnerny to head the list, with some more good men right behind them, who after the year's work under Coaches  Gargen and Henehan are ready to jump in  and make a lively fight for regular positions  on the Varsity next year. 
fHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
This ^'^ear^s team, according to able men who 

saw them work, could have defeated any 
secondary college team in the country, and 
was far better than any freshman team any of 
these men saw in action. They defeated Culver 
12 to o in their onl}'- outside game and in the 
scrimmages with the Varsity, which averaged 
three times a week, the upper class men never 
scored over 20 points. One night, with the-
aid of Rockne, the Freshies piled up 24 points 
on the Varsit)'', which is no easy task. 
The men are all good fighters and are full 
of "pep," especially Walter Miller who gives 
a war cry when running interference or carrying 
the ball. The fight displayed by the men was 
phenomenal, for getting run over by Eich and 
Bachman and others, daj'^ after da}'" during 
the whole season would be about enough to 
take the spirit out of any good army; but 
the freshies stood it and seemed to like it, for 
the only men to quit were the injured ones 
who couldn't help it. A large number of men 
were on hand every day and all deserve all 
the praise in the world. 
At the Ends Ryan and Wolfe did the heaviest part of the work, and showed Varsity form; the other men alternating with them were, Cook, Spalding, and Whipple. 
At Tackles, Mclnerny and R^j-an were the regulars- with Rauth, De Gree and Dixon for utility. 
At Guards, Jones and Franz, held the posi­tions aided by Ellis and Ahearn as substitutes. 
At Centre were three good men, the best of whom was Callahan, a truly wonderful lineman who will- undoubtedly have a Varsity line position next year. When "Cal" was hurt Hoffman filled in well with McMann helping him out. 
The Quarterbacks were Mathews and Joe Dorais,- both good men, but there was another man, Phelan, who was hurt at the first of the . season who will give them a fight for the Varsit}'- pivot position in 1915. 
At the Halves there were three brilliant men. Miller, Whalen and Malone, but Jones, Fitzgerald, and Slackford were not far behind them. 
The regular fullback was a big Rydewski, one of the biggest of the giants on the team, and Ivawbaugh worked as a sub. 
The team was given a banquet and theatre party at the end of the season, and it was announced that twenty-tliree of the men would be awarded jerseys with the class numerals. 
This is the custom of other schools using the 
three-year rule, but it is the first time this 
has been done at Notre Dame. 
Games are hard to arrange for Freshman 
teams because they are too strong for high-
schools teams and there is no glory for a secon­
dary college team in playing them, so let us 
hope we can get games with other Freshman 
teams in the near future. This year the other 
teams must have seen our 1918 team in action, 
for though Coach Gargen tried ever}rwhere 
from coast to coast, he could land only one 
game. Louis Keijer. 
The Inter-Hall Season. 

While the Inter-Hall season of 1914 began 
under rather favorable auspices, it was not as 
satisfactory as it should have been. Owing 
to bad weather conditions it was impossible 
to complete the schedule which had been 
mapped out, and the silver trophy donated 
by Messrs. Calnon and Hull was not awarded. 
It has been decided not to pick an all-Interhall team for the year because of the fact that there were not enough games played on which to base an opinion as to the relative merits of the various players. However, there were some men whose work was of an excep­tional character throughout, and who look like promising material for the 1915 Varsity. 
Jones of Brownson, Ryan of Corby, Calla-­ghan of Brownson, Phelan--of Saint Joseph, Grady of Walsh, and Carmody and CuUigan of Sorin were the stars of their respective teams. 
Jones is without doubt one of the-best guards developed of recent years in InterhaU. His, work was steady and consistent, and he seems to have acquired a great deal of the science which so distinguished his Varsity namesake. Callahan, the Brownson centre was an able teammate for Jones, and judging from his work this year, he will be a strong contender for Varsity honors next season. Cline of Brownson was a valuable man as were also EUis, Malone and Rydzewski. 
St. Joseph had a number of good men, chief among whom were Phelan and Bartel. The former was probably the best quarterback in Interhall, while as for Bartel there is no necessity for comment. He was the main •, stay of the Saint's line, and- played a hard steady game on all occasions. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Corb3''s team was a leading contestant, 
rather owing to their machine-like pla^dng 
than to indi^'idual effort. The}- had a number 
of exceptional men such as Bergman, Ryan, 
Dal}'^, Whalen, Fit'zgerald, and Corcoran, but 
the biggest factor of their work was their abilit}' 
to pla}^ together and the excellent interference 
of their backfield. Ryan at end was the best 
man on the team. He plaj-ed an exceptional^ 
strong game at all times, his tackles -were low 
and hard, and his ^.vay of smashing opposing 
interference featured ever}'- game he played 
in. If his ability in Interhall can be taken as a 
criterion, Ryan will have a good chance of 
landing a bertli on the Varsity during the next 
few years. 
Walsh did not live up to expectations this year, but tlie South Siders were badty handi­capped from lack of material. Their showing was ver}- poor in the first games, but in their last game against Brownson they put up an excellent exhibition, and the}'- deserve credit for the fighting spirit which made them work just as hard in their last game after all hope for the championship was gone, as they did in the first. Grady, O'Neil, and Jones were her best men. 
Sorin had one of the best teams of late years in Interhall football. Their w'ork was featured by the sensational playing of Culligan and Carmod}', but they had a well organized team as well as the indi^'idual stars. Other Sorin men who did good w^ork were Franz, Mooney, Stack and Mathews. 
The Student Vaudeville. 
It is indubitable that we owe a monument, if not of bi-onze or onyx; then at least of grati­tude and praise to Professor J. M. Riddle, "ftrho, with his cordon of efficient laborers, is responsible for the renaissance of that ancient and genial form' of entertainment—Student VaiideAdlle: Like another'David Belasco, he has built lip a super!) performance, which, from the sleuth-songs of J. Pinkerton C, who dreamt he was making a touchdown, to the'Carlisle - Notre Dame pictiires which really did, was" uniformly ludicrous. We haven't space to inehtion an}Hhing save the successful dancing of Eddie Mann, and the combination of dress-suits,'ragtime, and acting wliich won, such merited applause foi" Riley and Sexton. 
Of course there was "Rupe" Mills' own pajama scene, Mike Carmody's "chewing-gum" and the instruments Manavio did not pla}^. All in all it was a memorable success, even if Wildman and Kane were unavoidably restrained from telling the joke about the prodigal son. 
Safety Valve. 
ECHOES OF EXAMS. 
"The origin of the drama was in the basement of 
a church." 
"Shakespeare wrote 'Two Gentlemen of Peruna'." 
"The guilds produced plays which were partly 
funny and partlj"^ good." 
"The Anglo-Saxons were exposed to the fresh 
air. This made them war-like." 
"Their form of verse was illiterate." 
"Eight lines were iambic pentigon." 
"Thej'' were .surrounded in front by water and in 

the rear by wilderness." 
"An early English writer, the Honorable Bede." 
** * 
WITH APOLOGIES TO ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. 
It's easy to smile and be merry, When life with enjoyment seems young. But the man worth while, is the man who can smile When he faces a supper of tongue. A. L. M. 
** * 
THE FOOT AND MOUTH VAUDEVILLE. 
{By the. VALVE Reporter.) 
Nine rahs for Steve Burns, the hero of the hour! 

Steve was accompanist for nearly every number in 
last vSaturday night's vaudeville. We heard that 
program once only, -and immediately sent in our 
application for an Iron Cross and a Nobel prize and 
had our name cancelled from the lists of the Prohi­
bition Party. ^ Steve heard those numbers day after 
day, and when last seen was still alive. No purse 
of gold was rammed into his mitt when the show 
was over, but when the world's last movie is unreeled 
and the horses drowned in the lake rise up and 
give us the laugh and the uncrowned heroes "of time 
come in for their shining headgear, Steve's dome 
ought then to be lit up like Mishawaka . on a frostj"^ 
night. We're for you, Steve. 
What is to be said of the performance itself? Per­.haps the less said-the safer. 
Mr. Mann was a lady and laddie and broth of a 

boy all in one, easy and only choice for first honors. 
Mr. Riley and- his accomplice earned their reward. 
If a booby prize were given," it should have gone to 

the student audience. Their performance was easily 
the worst of the evening. Yet this is not to deny 
the more cheerful of the stage performers their fair 
share of odium, no, not by a damsite. ­
One historic question this night's perversion 

answered. We knovy now "where are the snows of 
yesteryear.'- They are the slush of to-day. 
It's a long,-long ^way to Cecil Birder and farther 

still to George Lynch, but our memories are there. 





