Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 77 Issue 10 11 December 1942 
The last page of another chapter has been written into the glorified annals of Notre Dame gridiron history. Another thi-ill-packed season of skirmishes has been respondent to the final gun, but not without the usual typical, fighting spirit that makes Noti-e Dame an out­standing team in the country year after year. Once again it was Notre Dame on the lips of the major gridiron onlookers. 
After spending ten trying weeks with the toughest competition in the country, the Fighting Irish encountered the un­beaten, unscored upon Great Lakes ag­gregation. Being a decided underdog in pre-game write-ups and then succumbing in the first half, the boys retaliated with that radiant glow of spirit that has sparked Notre Dame teams onto vic­tory for years. And with the snow-crust­ed field as a closing feature the loyal Irish followers can review and bid ad!eu to another top-notch season. 
Tie Badgers, 7-7 
Bucking the much publicized combina­tiion of Elroy Hirsch, and Pat Harder in their first contest, the Irish settled for a 7-7 tie despite tlie statistical ad­vantages that marked the true aggres­sive spirit that was to mark the greater portion of the season. 
Jim Mello i^lunged over from the two in N.D.'s only score. Bertelli was very much amiss; as the wet, snow-soaked ground proved a problem for heaving the slippery pigskin. 
Lose to Georgia Tech, 13-6 
Soon following the outset of the sea­son, an underrated Georgia Tech team invaded the campus only to be the early thwart to an undefeated Irish season. Coach Bill Alexander's Yellowjackets, possessing one of the most aggressive lines opposed all season and with a bag full of successful backfield maneu­vers, brought a note of desolation to the team as Georgia went home with a 1-3-6 victory under their belt. 
All American—^Bob Dove 


Notre Dame Football, IS 2 
The amazing exploit of Clint Castle-berry, freshman sensation, the capable and disheartening punts of Pat McHugh, and the revived "Statue of Liberty" stunned the audience and lads them­selves. 
Defeat Stanford, 27-0 

Never daunted, never down,.the spirit was destined to be foremost again and thus it was as the one-sided triumph over 
- Stanford, 27-0, proved that the stuff wasn't lacking here. Marchie Schwartz's boj'S displayed stalwart line efi'orts but the pitching arm of our Springfield rifle, Angelo Bertelli, was superior to the op­position's secondary as Captain George Murphy, Bob Dove, Paul Limont, and Bob Livingstone all received heaves that carried their toters into paydirt terri­tory. "Bert" also put three kicks between the uprights to find himself receiving the Player of tlie Das'- award. 
Seahawks Smashed, 28-0 

Now came the highly touted Iowa Sea-hawks, a team that not only embellished a squad of ex-All American and ex-pros but one that had a coach who had not tasted defeat in two past college seasons and was carrying that record forward as the Seahawks came to Notre Dame as administering death defying blows to Michigan, Minnesota, and Northwestern. 
First quarter play was accentuated by the star-studded actions -of the Pre-Flight squad, but without crossing the diagonals. Then came the fireworks, but in reverse, as the Fighting Irish played the greatest game since their encounter with Oliio State in '35. In less than two minutes the lads scored a pair of tallies as Clatt jjlunged over and a few plays after the kickoff he intercepted to run back for another 40-yard score, and fin­ally a 28-0 victory. Thus made way for the popular Clatt entrance into the N.D. gridiron limelight. 
It was during these two games that Coacli Frank Leahy was at .Mayo's re­covering from a back ailment, but effi­cient supervision of the team under Ed McKeever and his assistants put the team in their hest condition of the season. 
Trounce lllini, 21-14 

Next a trip to Champaign proved to . be a tough battle as the lllini held leads of 7-0 and 14-7. The second half proved to be climactic, however, as the push was 
BILL M 
Smiling Cornie Cldi oys 

on and the Green-jerseyed Irish put on a dramatic rally that brought a pair oi­t.d.,'s and a 21-14 victory. The line play^ of the boys was emphatically displayed' as they stopped an lllini drive in the opening minutes which had advanced to the N.D. one-foot line. Spectacular run^-i ning by Clatt, Livingstone, Ashbaugh;" and Cowhig, gained a lot of needed yard-^ age and eventual victory. 
I
Sink Navy, 9-0 

Cleveland's municipal stadium furr|, nished 65,000 fans to watch N.D. gain C01 a hard fought 9-0 win over Na^'y on the, mud-covered gridiron. Fumbles were com-l monplace with the sort of w/eather that! prevailed. Bert completed two aerials all afternoon but one was good to Dove on the one-foot line from where the for mer plunged over for the score. Later in the game, Coach Leahy, back from Maj'o's, sent in John Creevy as the Irish had command with fourth <^^ 14 on the Middle's 12. Tom Miller held on the 26 and the hall sailed between the uprights for a final 9-0. Navy aerial attempt at retaliation was only in vain as Lou Rym 
kus and his line colleagues ended the i fond hopes of the midshipmen. we: 19C >oo 

Decision Over Army, 13-0 

I too 
Solid turf was again evident as 65,000, |sho onlookers jammed the Yankee Stadium' rMi( to see the annual Notre Dame-Army^J ,Pai classic. Both teams Avere scoreless as bar the half ended. Eussell "Pete" Ash-"tha 
Bertelli's toss to Creighton Miller from the Cal 48 was good to the 25 and the 

£2: Won 7; Tied 2; Lost 2 able dexterity of the latter carried him on into the end zone. Southern Cal tried 
vlGTON 
>x 
—Photo by Schacfer Ciat oys through the Sailors! 
II 

baugh's recovery of an Army fumble on 
1 a 

the latter's 35 led to an eventful six points as Clatt and Creevy toted the ball on successive plays to the 15. Dick then skirted off tackle through an astounded secondary for the score. Bertelli supplied another point via the uprights. 
-• The final six points of the encounter came as part of the Bertelli-Murphy combine just a few seconds prior to clos­ing time. Army's secondary had hobbled the ball while in mid-air but "Murph" 
.finally retrieved the pigskin for the im counter. ;hej 
The most sensational feature of the 
m-game was the star-studded efforts of the 
latl Notre Dame line. While the aerial ma­
alsj neuvers were being kept from paying off, 
ive| n-the ground attack,-led by Creevy, Clatt, Cowhig, Ashbaugh, and Livingstone, 
inj ,came into its own and a 13-0 win. The 
)m| I diminished record of Army's first' down 
sh ^ column was due to the aggressive quali­
he! ties of the N.D. line. 
26 its 

at Downed By Wolverines, 32-20 n-he. After a 33-year wait, the Wolverines were determined to avenge a defeat of 1909 and that they did as their perfectly ,-,-oordinated running attack proved to be I too much for the Irish, the scoreboard )0. 
[^showing a 32-20 evidence of the^ fact. m" 
Michigan's great backs, Tom Kuzma, ,Paul White, and quarter George Ceit-IS haml exemplified the type of team play that had brought Michigan.into national 
recognition during their previous games. 
For the third time in its history, the Notre Dame Stadium was filled to capac­ity, but all that the Irish were able to capitalize on was the first touchdown of the game via Bertelli to Dove. Truly, the 13-13 tie at half time was not dis­couraging but Michigan's 19 point third quarter was a sour note which Notre Dame hopes were striving to survive. Early in the fourth period Creighton Miller raced across for the score. Thoughts of victory again reigned but ne'er to be fulfilled as the boys in maize and blue took advantage of a few Irish miscues and held the coveted oval for the remainder of the game. 
Whipped the Wildcats, 27-20 

Lynn Waldorf's Wildcat eleven had been higlily geared as they came to to^vn to take on the N.D. squad. They grabbed the first score as Hirsch plunged over and made the extra point but a 60-yard drive by the Irish finally brought the score one point from equality as Bertel­li failed to convert. The 'Cats then marched 80 yards after an interception to go back into the lead, 13-6. Clatt then scored for the Irish after a decided ground attack and aerial maneuver had put the team in scoring territory. Now it was 13-13. Another Irish jaunt of 79 yards, creditably given over to Creighty 
-Miller, Clatt and Li\angstone, put the ball on the four. Bertelli lateralled to Livingstone for the tally. 
The final N.D. score came as a result of Clatt's interception and then Bertelli's two completions to Limont and the t.d. man, Creighty Miller. Then five consec­utive completions by Graham put the 'Cats on the N.D. four from where Hirsch went across. That ended the game as far as scoring. 
Trojans Crumble, 13-0 

The trip to Los Angeles proved to be the most exciting and most eventful for the columnists as the Irish battled their way to their fift;h and last, seasonal shutout, 13-0, over the Trojans of South­ern California. The slugfest, as reported by the papers and Cal squad put four of the boys on the sidelines. EAridently the Notre Dame play was overcoming the show that the officials were trying to put on, and thus a few of our more lively boys were ejected. 
to retaliate but they were crushed with the severity of the Irish linemen plus imposed penalties. An 80-yard march put the Irish on Cal's 13, the initial 67 being-part of Bertelli's four heaves, two to Dove, Murphy and Clatt. A fifth and final toss to Livingstone was good for 
. a half dozen points plus one added by John Creevy. 
Thus the pre-season requisites for the successful season as outlined by Coach Frank Leahy were accomplished, that be­ing the mentioned "six or seven wins.'* 
Draw with Great Lakes, 13-13 
After beginning the season with a tie, the Irish similarly ended vnth one, but after having gone down in pre-game write-ups as being the under-dog. Great Lakes had been unscored upon in their last six victories and were_just right to polish off the Irish. The 13-0 advan­tage held by the saijors at half time of­fered some criteria for the early predic­tion, but ill less than three and a half minutes in the second half, the green and gold clad Irish had put an accompany­ing 13.on the scoreboard. 
Clatt's 82-yard jaunt, due heavily to the blocking efforts of a proven AU-American, Bob Dove, was the first re­juvenation of victory. A few plays later, Creighton Miller supplied the thrill of a goalward bound patriot as he marked off 68 well maneuvered yards, eluding taeklers from every angle. Second half domination by the Irish was as true a spirit of Notre Dame as was witnessed all season. In the closing three seconds, after being penalized five yards for back­field in motion, Creevy tried a placement that was being held on the mid-field stripe but it fell a few yards short of 
undisputed victory. 
And thus the end of another book of thrill-packed episodes of Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. 
Signal Caller—Hazr; Wright 
IM I 


Notre Dome HUDDLE 
GYM SHOES PLAIN "T" SHIRTS 
N. b. "T" SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY 
TOBACCO PIPES 

PROFESSIONAL CARDS 
Tdephone 3-4269 
ROSE DENTAL GROUP 
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.B.S. 
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. 
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S. 

623-629 Sherland Bids. South Bend, Ind. 
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS 

406-408 Tower Building Phone 3-2B74 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
- GENERAL DENTISTRY 
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation 

Tel. 4-5661 702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER 
DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building 
Phone 3-1254 South Bend, Indiana 


SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 
825 Sherland Building 
L. E. Fisher, MJ). M. J. Thornton. MJ). 
defeats against it as. this interview was conducted, had no soft spots along the route. Notre Dame's 1919 team listed among its victims:. Kalamazoo, Mt. Un­ion, Western Normal and Morningside. Suppose this year's squad played Kala­mazoo the day it faced Georgia Tech and Morningside the afternoon it engaged Michigan? Maybe it, too, would be rated among Notre Dame's greatest football units. 
Q. Do you think Leahy made a good 

move in adopting the "T" formation wdth a man in motion? 
A. If you measure the value of a sys­tem by the record it produces, Notre Dame is doing all right with the T. I ad­mire Leahy for having the courage to make a shift which he knew would dis­turb some of the old tune Notre Dame supporters. There is no one at Notre Dame more interested in developing a winning team than Leahy. If he decided the time had come to alter the old rout­ine, his judgment is good enough for me. 



N. D. Stages Red Fighting Irish Comeback; Ties Favored Great Lakes Sailors, 13-13 
PHIL KEEN 
To those who are acquainted with Notre Dame football teams of past years, last week's game was just another ex­ample of why they are called the "Fight­ing Irish." Outweighed almost 20 pounds per man by a team of veteran profes­sional and collegiate stars who were un­scored on in six games, the underdog Irish team came from the shadows of humiliating defeat to "conquer" the Great Lakes Bluejackets, 13-13, and end a gruelling 11 game schedule ^^ath a rec­ord of seven Avins, two defeats and two ties. 
Seniors and probably many of the oth­ers played their last game for the Blue and Gold as 40,000 shivering fans watched the spectacle. When the two teams met in 1918 the result was a 7-7 tie. Two days after tliis game was played the Armistice ending World War I was signed. 
The game started as another offensive demonstration of the Sailors when they took the opening kickoff and marched 72 yards for the first score of the game. The Navy defense proved just as strong as their offense as the Irish were held to a net gain of minus one yard in the first period. 

The Sailors struck first, taking the kickoff on the 23 and marching 77 yards for the score. Bruce Smith and Bob Sweiger picked large chunks of yardage as they marched to the one yard marker. Smith smashed through for the touch­down. His try for point was smeared by rampaging Bob Dove. Great Lakes' sec­ond score came early in the second per­iod. After they had been stopped on the two yard line, Bertelli punted out to his own 30 and the Bluejackets again surged goalward. This time Steve Belichick and Ed Heffeman carried the burden, Bel­ichick going over. Nelson added the one pointer. Bertelli, Creight Miller, Comie 
Clatt and Bob Livingstone set up the lone Irish threat of the first half. The attack stalled on the Navy 25 as a fourth down pass went incomplete. It was ap­parent that the gas rationing was ham­pering the usually smooth running "Model T." 
At the half Coach Leahy refueled the Irish football machine and pointed out some methods of getting quick pick-up. 
_ The ftm began a few seconds later. After ,­Tom Miller took the kickoff on the 18, Harry Wright called for a weakside cross-buck by Mr. Corwin Clatt. Bertelli faked to C. Miller and handed it to Clatt, Murphy and Neff opened a hole in the right side for a split second and Comie shot through. Wright, White and Dove pulled out with him. Harry spilled the the first backer-up. White set another member of the secondary on the turf. Dove took care of the safety man Har­rell Avith as beautiful a block as has ever been seen in Soldiers' Field, and the "Moose" journeyed on across the double stripe. Bert's try for the extra point was 
wide, but the Irish were just getting warmed up. 
An inspired Irish forward wall stopped the sailors cold and Harrell punted to Tom Miller who was doAvned on the 32. Wright took a look at the defense and called a similar play with Creighton Mil-i ler taking the ball from Bertelli, instead I of faking as in the last play, and broke v into the secondary. Creight sent two ­backers-up sprawling to the ground as ;? they tried to pull him down. Dove again ^ blocked the last man out of the play and ; Mr. Miller tore across the goal line with-' out breaking stride. John Creevey added the conversion to tie the score at 13-13. 
After this rejuvenation the green shirts held the upper hand for the re­mainder of the game. As the gun sound-j ed John Creevey's attempted field goal |. 
I 


RUO^aNER 

CIGAR Q ^ STORE 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Bruggner's in the I. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cig­arettes, Pipes —Novelties — Foun­tain Service — Billiards. 
NEUIS CORNER 
Maim amd ^z^ojtMm 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Bruggner's News Comer has your home town papers — or will get them for you — also magazines — books, maps, and greeting cards. 
BRING yOUR GIFT PROBLEMS f to g 


HANS-RINTZSCH | 
\ lor lovely, practical gifts of leather 
GLOVES LUGGAGE HANDBAGS TOILET SETS ZIPPER BAGS BILLFOLD SETS MANICURE SETS DRESSING CASES 
I  HANS-RINTZSCH  
{:\ ^  LUGGAGE SHOP 138 N. Michigan Street _  _  
22  

(Continued from page 20) 

from the 40 yard line fell a scant five yards short of the uprights and bounced up to hit the cross bar. 
Senior Bob Dove proved himself to be one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame history as he blocked and tackled all over the gridiron. Captain Murphy's cross-block of Odson, Navy's 250 pound tackle, sending Clatt on his way, was another of those plays that had to be seen to be believed. Yes, the Irish only tied this one, but the game is destined to go into the books as a brilliant moral victory. 

Fencers Lose Close Decision to Buckeyes 
The Notre Dame fencing team opened its pre-Christmas season last Saturday shortly after the Leahy-men had trotted oif the gTidiron with an amazing tie with Great Lakes. Possibly inspired by the uphill fight of the football team, the fencers clung desperately to the Big Ten champions, Ohio State, only to be nosed out in the last two bouts, 14-13. 
The Buckeyes jumped oif to a fast start taking three foil bouts. Angel Gon­zalez, Jim Madigan, and Bitsy Eepilado came back to tie the score at three-all. Captain Jim Madigan sandwiched an­other win between two Irish losses to come out of the foil bouts with a 5-4 deficit. 
Herb Melton, Dave Roney, and Gene Slevin kept the Irish within easy strik­ing distance with wins over Hunt, Mas­sar, Crosby, and McCarthy. Entering the decisive epee bouts, the Ohio boys had a 10 to 8 lead. 
Captain Madigan led off with a 3-0 win over three-weapon man, McCarthy. Gil­bert boosted their lead back to two points with a tight 3-2 decision over Bitsy Eepilado. John Watters and Bitsy took over here and won two of the next three points and pulled up even with the Buck­eyes. With only three bouts remaining, the Madigan-Selinger duel presented all the marks of being the pressure point. The tension gi-ew as each man scored one and then two touches. The final point was really something to \yitness. Both men attacked at the same instant. The fenc­ers stepped back and watched the judges frantically search for sign of red ink as an indication of a touch. Many anx­ious seconds passed before the director straightened up and announced—Point— Ohio State. 
The Buckeyes put the clincher on the meet in the next bout as iron-man Mc­Carthy rang up the necessary three touches and brought victory to the Big Ten champs. 
Coach Langford was well pleased with the spirit and "fence sense" exhibited by his boys and gave special words of praise 
Let Wyman's 


be your Santa's 
GIFT BAG 
Don't forget to buy: 
MOTHER that new purse; 
DAD that shirt and tie; 
SISTER Virginia that sweater; 
little sister Alice that doll; 
BROTHER Bill that football; 
and don't forget to buy HER that new perfume. 
For the NAVY man, and busy student — call, write or see Joan Navarre, your personal shopper at ' Wyman's. 
Phone 3-5101 

WYMAN'S 
DEPARTMENT STORE 
On Michigan at Washington (Next to the Bank) 






