
Future Notre.Dame Schedules 
1986 
September 13-Michigan September 20-at Mich. State September 27-Purdue 
October  4-at Alabama  
~October  11-Pittsburgh  
October  18-Air Force  
November  1-at Navy (Baltimore)  
November  8-SMU  

November 15-Penn State . November 22-at LSU November 29-at USC 
1988 
September 10-Michigan September 17-at Mich. State September 24-Purdue 
October  1-Stanford  
October  8-at Pittsburgh  
October  15-Miami  
October  22-Air Force  
October  29-at Navy  
November  5-at SMU  

November 19-Penn State November 26-at USC 
1990 
September 15-Michigan September 22-at Mich. State September 29-Purdue 
October  6-Stanford  
October  13-Air Force  
October  20-Miami  
October  27-at Pittsburgh  
November  3-at Navy  

November 10-at Tennessee November 17-Penn State December 1-at USC 
1987 
September 12-at Michigan September 19-Michigan State September 26-at Purdue 
October  10-at Pittsburgh  
October  17-at Air Force  
October  24-USC  
October  31-Navy  
November  7-Boston College  

November 14-Aiabama November 21-at Penn State November 28-at Miami 
1989 
September 16-at Michigan September 23-Michigan State September 30-at Purdue 
October  7-at Stanford  
October  14-at Air Force  
October  21-USC  
October  28-Pittsburgh  
November  4-Navy  

November 11-SMU November 18-at Penn ·state November 25-at Miami 
1991 
September 7-lndiana September 14-at Michigan September 21-Michigan State September 28-at Purdue 
October  5-at Stanford  
October  12-Pittsburgh  
October  19-at Air Force  
October  26-USC  
November  2-Navy  
November  9-Tennessee  

November 16-at Penn State November 30-at Hawaii 
Home games in boldface 

2 The Kickoff 
'85 Overview: Glory Days That Never Were 
By Jolm Heisler 

50 The Trivia 
Notes on Notre Dame: Irish Items: Football '85 
By John Heisler 

53 The Star 
The Records: Charting Allen Pinkett 
·56 The New Staff 
Profiling Lou Holtz: All He Wants to Do Is Coach 
By Chuck Freeby 

60 The New Year 
'86 Preview: Could Be Whole New Game 
By Jolm Heisler 

64 The Stats 
Vol. 6, No. 1, May 1, 1986 

The Season 
6 Michigan: Will Real Michigan Stand Up?................... .By John Heisler lO Michigan State: Brown Turns Night Into Light .............. .By Chuck Freeby 14 Purdue: A Bonanza for the Boilers ....................... .By Karen Croake 18 Air Force: Not Supposed to Be This Way ................... .By .Mike McCall 22 Army: A Matter of Respectability.......................... .By Eddie White 26 USC: Turning the Trojans Green .......................... .By Jolm Heisler 30 Navy: A New Debate for Irish Fans ....................... .By Chuck Freeby 34 Ole Miss: Two QBs Too Many for Rebels .................. .By Karen Croake 38 Penn State: When It Rains, It Pours ........................ .By Eddie White 42 LSU: A Miracle Finish That Wasn't ....................... .By Mike McCall 46 Miami: Last Stand Wasn't Much Fun ...................... .By Jolm Heisler 

The Credits 
Irish Eye is a copyrighted production of Sports Publications. Box I. Notre Dame, IN 46556. Editor: John Heisler; Editorial Staff: Karen Croake, Chuck Freeby. Mike McCall, Eddie White; Photography by Associated Press. Mike Bennett, Hannes Hacker, Rev. F. Thomas Lallak, Philip Mark, University of Minnesota, Steven Navratil, New York Jets, Pat Patterson, Bob Rosato, Stewarts Photographers, along with Bruce Harlan, Nick Griffin and Vince Wehby of Notre Dame Photography; Cover Artwork: Tim MacDonald and Todd Doney; Printing: Ave Maria Press; ©Sports Publications, University of Notre Dame. 1986. All rights reserved.-Jo/m Heisler, Editor 

The Basketball Review 
Volume 2 of Irish Eye in '86 will feature a review of the 1985-86 Notre Dame basketball season. Published approximately June l, it will include a game-by-game summary with statistics plus photos galore. It's an ali-in-one record of the '85-'86 campaign. For your copy, send a check for $4.25 (includes first-class postage) to Sports Publications, Sports Information Department, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (make checks payable to Sports Publications). 

,85 Overview 
Glory Days That Never Were 
By JOHN HEISLER 
lOu 're having a Izard time and lately 
you don't feel so good 
lOu 're getting a bad reputation 
in your neighborhood 
It's alright, it's alright 
Sometimes that's what it takes 
lOu 're only human, you're allowed 
to make your share ofmistakes. 

New Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz came up with a funny line recently when asked about the first group of high school seniors to sign national letters of intent to play for the Irish. 
"Let's not get carried away," he suggested. '~ll these players are from this planet. We didn't sign anybody from Krypton." 
Holtz' comment rang all too true­especially considering how media hype during the recruiting season turns anyone 6-4 and 255 into a high school All-American and just about every player into an all-something or all-somewhere prospect. 

Think back to 1981 when Gerry Faust put together his initial class of incoming freshmen. There was no one from Krypton in that group, either, but that didn't stop Faust from suggesting to at least one writer that it might be the best class of players ever signed anytime, anywhere, by any school. Notre Dame's rookie coach learned quickly not to make such remarks in haste, yet that typified the emotionalism that accompanied the start of the Faust era. 
Mark Bavaro, Mark Brooks, Tom Doerger, Mike Gann, Mike Golic, Joe Howard, Joe Johnson, Mike Larkin, Chris Smith, Larry Williams and others all turned out to be solid football players -but they weren't helped by the burgeoning expectations. 
None of those players came from Krypton, either, nor did Faust. In fact, it's probably too bad a few more people didn't suggest, as Billy Joel points out in his recent hit song, that Faust was only human and it was okay for him to make his share of mistakes. 
Faust certainly did -and that somehow seemed to surprise some people. · 
Go back to November of 1980 when this phenomenom from Moeller High School in Cincinnati came on board. Despite that glossy record in 18 years of coaching, why weren't a few more of the so-called ·experts a little more hesitant before nominating Faust as the next saint? 
The headlines blazed in the Ozicago Tribune -'~lready Gerry Faust is stuff of which legends are made" and "Faust Becomes Knute VI of ND" and "Faust prayers are answered by Notre Dame." It was no different in the Chicago Sun-Times­"New worry: Will Irish become TOO good?" and "Ex-players certain Faust up to the task." Ifthere were naysayers who wondered about the likelihood of knighting this 45-year-old dynamo -who had never coached a college football game in his life ­their concerns were lost. 



There's really no one to blame. After all, weren't all of us swept up at least a little bit in the euphoria that.permitted pondering of the thought that Notre Dame might never lose again? 
Someone should have noticed the absence of the red cape and the big red "S" on his chest. 
In the end, Gerry Faust was only human. That turned out to be his biggest mistake. 
Its not always easy to be 
living in this world ofpain . 

lbu 're gonna be crashing into 
stone walls again and again 

Its alright, its alright 
11wugh you feel your heart break 
lbu 're only human, you're gonna 
have to deal with heartache. 

One of Gerry Faust's favorite phrases from beginning to end of his five-year tenure involved getting over the hump. It was a goal of his that never would be accomplished. 
"If we just get over the hump," he would say, "we'll be alright. Then people will quit asking me this kind of stuff if we just go 8-3 or 9-2. Once we do that, people will quit worrying about Gerry Faust." 
Trouble was, Notre Dame never went 8-3 or 9-2. A couple of7-5 seasons were the closest the Irish would come. · 
Anyone familiar with athletic;s by now understands how little coaching contracts mean these days. Coaches are signed to multiyear agreements-yet they're often torn up or ignored or renegotiated with little consternation. 
Yet, thanks to that "hump" that always seemed to loom in the distance, there couldn't have been more than a few dozen people left -either on this planet or Krypton-who weren't aware of Faust's contract situation. 
From the moment back in '81 when the Ii"ish lost to Michigan and it became apparent that the Irish, indeed, weren't going to go 11-0 from now until the year 2000, the five­year contract became an issue. 
Unfortunately, the Irish never won enough to eliminate it from the campaign. 
Witness the 1985 season. Notre Dame had the pleasure of showcasing a senior tailback named Allen Pinkett, a glib, impressive young man whose talents as a running back and as an interviewee might have made him a Heisman Trophy winner in many seasons. · There were others, too -the Eric Dorseys and Tim Scannells and Tony Furjanics and Mike Larkins, the seniors who somehow deserved better than to have to be hidden by the Faust hubbub that never seemed to go away. 
. Once upon a time, Notre Dame football players became looked upon as outstanding interview targets by the media. They were accessible, they were intelligent, they had worthwhile things· to say -and they generally made life easy for writers and broadcasters who covered Irish teams. 
But not in 1985. 
The Pinketts and Scannells of the Irish squad became merely pawns in a chess game in which Faust became far and away the biggest piece on the board. That fact wasn't lost on the players. 
A few days after the Army game, in which Pinkett had passed Vagas Ferguson to become the all-time rushing leader in Notre Dame history, Scannell sat in front of his locker, shaking his head at the response to Pinkett's feat. 
"Of all the records here at Notre Dame, the career rushing one probably means the. most of all," said the senior guard. "But did you see the headline in the Chicago papers the next day? We play well and Allen breaks the record, and the headline says, 'Irish Win Eases Pressure on Faust.' The fact that Allen sets this record is buried way down in the story while everyone worries about the coaching situation. 

"For as much as Allen Pinkett has contributed here, he deserves better than this." 
Alas, that incident was more the product of a 1-3 start than anything else. When the Irish didn't win to begin the '85 season, the contract talks only began anew. That put all the focus on Faust and took it away from Notre Dame's team and players. 
Each week when visiting writers called to line up interviews with Irish players, they weren't asking about Pinkett's life story or Furjanic's consistency or Dorsey's stellar senior performance. Instead, they asked the Irish players about Faust. Why hasn't he won? How has he changed? What do you think of him now? The questions never ended, and even Faust admitted the players had been cheated because of it. 
I had a friend was a big baseball 
player back in high school 
He could throw that speedball 
by you 
Make you look like a fool 
Saw him the other night 
at this roadside bar 
I was walking in and he 
was walking out 
Hi? went back inside sat down, 
had a few drinks but all 
he kept talking about was 
Glory days well they'll pass you by Glory days in the wink ofa young girl's eye Glory days, glory days 
When Bruce Springsteen sings about the 
glory days, it's tough to figure where Gerry 
Faust fits into the storyline. 
When Faust assumed the head coaching 
duties three months after Dan Devine 
announced his resignation, he and plenty of 
Irish fans thought the glory days were just 
beginning. Five years later, Notre Dame fans 
might beg to differ. 
Who ever imagined back then that it would 
be those 18 eminently successful seasons at 
Moeller High School that would rank as the 
glory years? Who ever imagined that the 
upset of unbeaten and top-ranked Pittsburgh 
in '82 and the three straight wins over 
perennial rival USC would be the exceptions 
rather than the rule? Who ever imagined that 
Faust's teams would lose four straight games 
to Air Force, four of five to Penn State and 
Miami and two of three to Michigan? 
Who ever imagined that the luck of the 
Irish would roll s·o sour that Faust's Irish 
teams would-lose 15 times by a touchdown 
or less. Who ever imagined that in Novem­
ber, when rankings and bowl bids are on the 


The glory days like this one simply didn't come along often enough. 
line, that Notre Dame would go no better Rose Bowl a month later. figures . . . Notre Dame is as easy to than 8-11 over five seasons? Yes, Notre Dame had its share of bright calculate as the new math. If the Irish were moments in the sun. But some of the darker an Apple, they wouldn't compute." 
Faust probably was right when he moments proved to be frustratingly inexplica­The continual ups and downs on the field suggested the night of his resignation that the ble. Just when Irish fans were convinced never did much to help the team's overall stigma of finishing 5-6 that first season in their team was finally on a roll, Notre Dame confidence level. 
'81 never seemed to go away. That losing would promptly pull an about-face and leave ·~t the end, in critical situations there wascampaign-Notre Dame's first in 18 years those same fans scratching their heads. this slippage in confidence in ourselves, in-put Faust and his team behind the eight How could the Irish look like top 10 the coaches, in everybody," quarterback ball, a position from which they never could material in that emotional triumph at LSU in Steve Beuerlein told John Feinstein of thecompletely escape. 
'84-and then just a week later look Washington Post. "It wasn't a lot, but it was Oh, sure, there were more than a few 
absolutely dreadful for 55 minutes in barely enough."bright spots during the Faust years. Five of 
avoiding the first loss in 21 years against So, now, the torch has been passed. those six losses that first year came to top 20 
Navy? How could the Irish roar to four It is Lou Holtz' task to rebuild that teams, but in '82 the tide seemed to tum. 
straight wins and a top 10 ranking to start the confidence. It is Holtz' job to renew theThe Irish played awfully well in beating 
'82 campaign-and then somehow manage Fight in the Irish. It is Holtz' mission to lOth-ranked Michigan in the opener under only a tie against a winless Oregon team that wake up the echoes. the lights at Notre Dame Stadium. They 
finished 2-8-1. "It's been six years since Notre Dame was bounced off the carpet to beat 17th-ranked Notre Dame, indeed, was a complete in the top 20," he told Feinstein. "The kids Miami three weeks later on a late Mike mystery team at times. we're recruiting now were in the sixth grade Johnston field goal. And a month later they 
Bill Dwyre, sports editor of the Los back then. shocked unbeaten and top-ranked Pittsburgh 
Angeles Times and a Notre Dame graduate, "Yeah, they all know the name Notre 31-16 in the game that made Pinkett a had those same thoughts last October when Dame~ But lately, a lot of them have been household name. trying to explain how the Irish could totally misspelling it." 
In '83, the Irish rebounded from a dominate USC after losing three of its first Only time will tell if Holtz' glory days at disappointing regular-season finish to hold four games: Notre Dame produce better memories than off 13th-ranked Boston College and magical "The only thing obvious about the current Faust's. quarterback Doug Flutie in the cold at the Fighting Irish team is that nothing is 
· Liberty Bowl. A year later, they pulled off obvious. On any given day, Notre Dame can Glory days well they'll pass you by another shocker on the road by soundly beat anybody. Or lose to them. It can win a Glory days in the wink ofa young whipping unbeaten LSU -and later defeated game like a prince or lose like a pauper. girl's eye a USC team that would impressively win the With this team, it just figures that nothing Glory days, glory days 
.!I ;I 
! 
Michigan 
Will Real Michigan Stand Up? 

By JOHN HEISLER Imagine Gary Moore playing the host on his old "To Tell the Truth" series. 
Imagine Gary quizzing Bo Schembechler and a couple of imposters and finally asking, "Will the real Michigan football team please stand up?" 
Notre Dame didn't manage to solve that mystery, at least not in the 20-12 Fighting Irish season-opening loss to the Wolverines. 

Was this the same Michigan passing attack that couldn't produce 100 yards four times after Jim Harbaugh broke his arm in 1984­or was this the Harbaugh who would lead the · nation in passing efficiency in '85? 
Was this the Michigan defense that found itself outgained by eight of 12 opponents in 1984-or was this the one that would lead the nation in scoring defense (only 75 regular-season points) and finish second in total defense in '85? 

Was this the Michigan team that lost three of its last four games en route to a 6-6 record 
6 
in 1984-the only non-winning season in Schembechler's 16 in Ann Arbor and the nearest thing to a losing record since 4-6 in 
'67? Or was this the Michigan team that rolled to five straight wins, shut out three teams, held two others to a lone field goal and eventually zapped always-tough Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl? The Wolverines, who ended up second in the final polls behind Oklahoma, lost their only game of '85 on an afternoon when they didn't even give up a touchdown. Four field goals by Iowa were enough that afternoon in Iowa City. Four by Notre Dame in Ann Arbor were not. In retrospect, Irish coach Gerry Faust didn't feel so bad about his team's perform­ance after he watched what Michigan did in succeeding weeks. But he admitted the early defeat threw Notre Dame off kilter and, considering the eventual 1-3 Irish start, it took a good month to recov~r. 
In any event, it wasn't the sort of debut the Irish needed. 
It wasn't so much that Notre Dame played badly. The worst adjective with which critics might have tagged the Irish was conservative. 
It wasn't so much the glaring errors as it was the Irish inability to take the bull by the horns. In a year in which every Monday morning quarterback, media member or otherwise, knew that Faust was entering the final season of a five-year contract, the Irish figured to come out charging. But it simply didn't happen that way. 
Instead of racing for the red cape, Notre Dame played it cozy and close to the vest by settling for three field goals on possessions that began inside the Michigan 20. 

That's not always bad strategy. After all, four field goals in· Michigan Stadium in '79 were enough for a 12-10 win over a Wolverine team that won its next seven games. But in a season in which coming close wasn't going to count for anything, Notre Dame left too little margin for error. 
When Alonzo Jefferson fumbled away the second-half kickoff-with a severe knee injury ending his season in the process-the complexion of the contest changed dramati­cally. · 
Maybe the Irish had hoped to lull the usual assembled 100,000 fans to sleep by quietly building their first-half advantage. But the quick turnover seemed only to awaken the slumbering Wolverines. If Notre Dame somehow had managed to take the second­half kickoff and move in for a touchdown, it would have snared a more comfortable 16-3 lead and maybe even gone on to win comfortably. 
Instead, Harbaugh pulled off a nifty quarterback draw on third down and the margin that the Irish had patiently built over the first 30 minutes of the game suddenly vanished in one fell swoop. 
Actually, the Irish should have seen what was coming for a couple of reasons. 
First, the Michigan players didn't bother to try to hide the fact that practices with Schembechler hadn't exactly been picnics. The resolve to better that 6-6 mark from '84 was strong.. 
Second, Michigan Stadium hardly qualified as a happy hunting ground for Faust, whose initial collegiate defeat in '81 had been rudely administered in Ann Arbor after his Irish had risen to the top of the polls after the first week of the season. And Bo had never ever lost a season opener on the artificial turf of his home field. 
Still, Notre Dame came out on the road and played noteworthy defense in the first half, didn't commit a turnover and put some kind of points on the board on each legiti­mate scoring opportunity. 
Harbaugh completed only two passes in the first half (on 10 throws), and the Wolverines only twice threatened in Notre Dame territory. First, with the Irish on top 3­0 Michigan freshman Mike Gillette misfired on a 47-yard field goal after reaching the Notre Dame 30. In fact, Michigan's only first-half points came with barely a minute left in the half-after the Wolverines had driven from their own 41 with seven straight running plays (good for 49 yards) beginning the march. 
Notre Dame's offensive concern revolved around junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein, whose throwing shoulder had been the target of April surgery, leaving him with less time than desired to get the Irish passing attack in gear. Yet he showed no ill effects early on­twice running for first downs on Notre Dame's first scoring foray and hitting five of his seven first-half passes. 
But the shadow of the Michigan goalposts seemed to signify a change in policy. 
First, the Irish maneuvered to a first down at the Wolverine 14-before three straight Allen Pinkett carries for three net yards were negated by a costly procedure penalty on a third-and-five attempt. The first of a record­tying four John Carney field goals ensued. 
On their next possession, the Irish again drove to a first down at the home team's 14. Again Pinkett carried three straight times, but as the down marker flipped to four Notre Dame was still at the 14. Carney converted for a second time. 
The third Carney three-pointer came just prior to the halftime gun, after the Irish hurry-up troops took advantage of a soft Michigan defensive formation to get 38 yards for Pinkett on three quick carries. 
But whatever confidence and momentum Faust's crew had built for itself in those opening 30 minutes disappeared awfully quickly when Jefferson couldn't find the handle on a shorter-than-expected second­half kickoff. 
"I thought it was going deep, but then it dropped," said Jefferson, who had figured to be a substantial part of the Notre Dame rushing attack, too, as Pinkett's top assistant at tailback. 
"I tried to come up hard to get it, but their guy dove for the ball and his helmet went right into my knee. I misjudged the play. I should have read it better." 
Beuerlein said it better: "The second-half _kickoff was a big, big factor. I'm sure it left a few guys thinking, 'Here we go again.' " 
Said Schembechler, "It was the one time the Lord looked down on somebody other than Notre Dame.'' 

Robert Banks (56), Wally Kleine (96) and Steve Lawrence keep watch on Wolverine running back Jamie Morris for a Notre Dame defense that asserted itself impressively to start the year. 
•..,,The secohd-h~lf kickoffwasabig;big'fac­

The Irish might have held on the posses­sion that began at the Irish 14. But · Harbaugh-executing what Notre Dame· linebacker Mike Kovaleski called the "perfect play"-found lots of daylight up the middle on a third-and-six call that produced six points. 
"They just suckered us into that one," lamented Irish defensive tackle Wally Kleine. Still, the visitors weren't finished-or ·at least Carney wasn't. 
The Irish found themselves with a chance to regain the lead after Matt Dingens recovered a fumbled Michigan punt return at the Wolverine 29. But Notre Dame found only frustration once it neared the Wolverine goal. From a first down at the 15, Pinkett again carried three straight times-gaining nothing on third and three from the eight. Carney again converted for three points, but they would be Notre Dame's last of the afternoon. Michigan played ball control the rest of the way. 
If the Wolverines thought of panicking after Notre Dame regained the lead, they didn't show it. They promptly reeled off the two most impressive drives of the contest. The first lasted 7:02, the second 7:18. The first accounted for 80 yards in 13 plays, the second 74 yards in 14 plays. Nineteen of those 27 plays were running plays-yet Harbaugh always seemed to be able to find a seam in the Notre Dame secondary when he needed it. He was effective enough to hit five of his seven throws during those two scoring marches. 
Key penalties against the Irish played a role in each drive. Tight end Eric Kattus dropped a third-down throw on the initial possession after Michigan had reached the Irish 26. But Wally Kleine was called for roughing the passer-and the Wolverines had a first down at the 13. 
"The call surprised me," said Kleine. "If it was a penalty, then it was a stupid mistake." 
Cornerback Marv Spence found himself called for pass interference on the next Michigan drive-on a second-and-six pass to Paul Jokisch in the end zone. Two plays later, Harbaugh threw to Gerald White for 15 yards, good for a first down at the Notre Dame four. Only a goalline stand-including a snazzy stop by Cedric Fiagro, who stopped Harbaugh for a four-yard loss on third and goal from the two-limited the Wolverines to a field goal. 
Michigan's two drives took so much time off the clock that the Irish· had precious few 




!'::>·_..;.: '·.::· . . :_· :~ :c
the dog people think we are." ~ II
!-' ;<. . . '. ·!
Will the real Michigan football team please ~
r.'.:..'·. ~.-:>. ..• == 
u

stand up? 
Jim Harbaugh, Jamie Morris, Mike ;: !
L.~~~~~~~:~-~~·-·-·_ .:..~c. ....~-~.~~"~~--..._i~-~~~--~:e--~"'-~·~,.L~--~--~~,.~~--~-~--·__:__ _1 z I 
Hammerstein (he had three sacks, 13 tackles i 
Wolverine quarterback Jim Harbaugh finds daylight up the middle -much as he did (plus four stops for lost yardage) and their on the scoring run that gave Michigan its first lead. 11'
Wolverine mates did just that. 1r 
:I Individual Stutistks ·. · 
HJ 
· Scoring Sllmmary 

;~
Notre Dame ·. · 
Fir5t Quarter ·. . . . TimeUM ND ·. Att.· Gain Lost· Net ·. TD Long 

'l !i· if
ND~Johri carricy 34FG 3;05 o 3 22 94 ·5 89 . 0 23 . 

· Drlve::34 yards in 12 .plays in 5:45. 
· . 5 15 · · 2 -13 0 · 6 ··. following Michigan punk · 
Alonzo Jefferson : -2 · : · 7 0 · 7 . · 0 6 . Second Quarter 

!t·
·nrri Browri .1. . 1 o . 7.. · o 1 
il
J'~D~Johri'Camey31 FG 9:47 6. 6 
li­
. ,.steve Beuerlein. · .9 · 23 42 -19 · .. ·o 13 . 
· Drive: 56 yards in 9 plays in 4:56.: · · 

jf;
Passing · ·· -Att.Comp. Int. Yards TD Long. ' · .: following'Michigan missed fii:ld · · .Team Statistics . Steve Beuerlein ·. 23 11 · •I . 160 · 0' 23 
!I'
goal.· : ... · · · · · ND . UM PaSs Receiving ·• ·No•.Thrds TD Long · 

!f
• UM-:-~ike Gillette2i FG 1:04.;3 6 · 
ll
•First Dowris • 15 · il ·Reggie Ward. .·. 2 37 ·. .• o · : 20 
:i
· ·. _Drive: 5? )'ards in 11 plays in 3:36 . 

· Rushing . . 6 , 15 . . Tun Brown 2 32 · 0 23 . . .. following Notre Dame punt. 
Passing : 9 · · •.. 4 · · · Allen Pinkett · 2 .. 29 ·. o . 22 · ND-John Camey47 FG .:,.· , :08 3 ~: 9 Penalty . . . · · o .2 Pat Cusack . 1 : · 19 o 19Drive:-:50 f.lrds iri 5 plays .in :56 
II
Rushing Attempts.· · . 39. 52 . ·Joel Williams-:. -.1. ~15 0 15· . ·following ~ichigan kickoff.· · :Yards Gained Rushing. · :. l46 261 : Tom Rehder·· ·1 . 14·.. 0 14...
Third Quarter. ·. . · · · · Yards Lost Rushin1;-49 · '.10. :· · Tony Eason 1 11 .. · o · II' . · 

It
UM.:....Jim Harbaugh 10 rim~:.·. 13:~0 •10: ·..9· 

Net YafdSRushing: · · >97 · ::. • 251 ·Frank Stims 1 3.-0 3(Mike Gillette kiCk) -~ · : · 
If.
Net Yards Pas.sing ;. · 160 :· 74 
· . . Dri~e: ·14 'yards. in 3 plays in I :37 

!;~
Passes Attempted .· · .·.-:23: · ; 17 . . Micltigim
following' Dieter Heren recovery of ..· . ;t
· Passes Completed · 11 . ·. ': 7 RUshing · · ·Att. Gain. Lost •: Net Tn Long : : Notre Dame o'n second-halfkickoff. · ·. Had Intercepted · T o · ·Jamie Morris 23'. 12( · · 2 >i'l9 o 25
ND.::JohnCarney25FG · · . · ;, 8:14 10. ,12 !t;b 
.-:TotaiOffensivePiays ·-62 ... /69~ ::JimHarbatigh .9 .. 68. ··g:.:_·60:<i · '24 .. Drive: 2Lyards in1·play·~ in 3:0.1 ·> . · · · 
..:··Total Net-Yards •·.·; · 257. · 325 · .Bob.Percyman· 9 ···28 ·o ·. ·28 · o 7 ~~ :·;:: following Mntt'Dingens recovery of ·_. Averagepain~erPlay 4.i 4.7: 'Thomas Wilcher· >4 18. o~: 18 <:o, ,_:8· ~ ~ 
Michigan fumble on Notre Dame. 

· Return Yards · 5 · ··: · · -10 · ·Gerald White::_:::· 6 16. · 0 ·: ·16 · ··v 
punt.·· .. < > :. · • . . · '~ 
·Fumbies:Number_:Lost: · i-1 . ··:2-2· _Eri~Campbell .· .... ·1 10 . ·o ,·w· :_ . . ·'·. ~· · UM-Gerald.White 3 run·. ·1:1i 17-: li Penaltie.S: Number-:.:.::\'ards 3-33 _2-13 .. ·. Passing ; ,.. ·; •·:· ~tt.Co~p.-·Irit. Yards:-TD LOng(MikcGilleite kick).::·. . ··· · . 
:~
InterCeptions: Number~Yards . . .> 0-0 ·.· · ·.· i-2: . Jim Harbaugh.· ·: 17.· <7 ~-· o · 74: · o 17 
·., Drive:._80.yards in 12 plays in 7:02 .··· · 1:. 
· NumberofPunts.;_Yards•.• .. :.5-210 · 3--113<·' PassReceiving · --::·.· ... No.¥.trds· TDLong : ~ 
· following Notre Dame kickoff. · · · ;·~ ~
KiCkoffRet\irns:..Numbi:r~Ya!-ds :: <3-25 ·· 1-12: '-.Jamie Morris ·· · ·.. -3 . 2.4~·· · ·o . · ~ 9Fourth Quarter •.<>· .,· ::· ·, ... 
·.Average Pe·r Pimt :< :. -' · >·:., 42 0 _;: ·37;7_ :'·: Gilvaimi Johnson:...\ 1 · 17 · 0 ·' '1'7 !;;
··: •. UM~Mike Gillette 23 Fo·: / •-·~ . · · :· 5:12 20. til 
Drive: 74 yilro~ in 14 piays in 7:18 · · .~.:snstes.Rse.tu.nm._;.:mNe·,um_·..be.·.·._r_-.~.' Ya_~.:_··.s.'~~.·..·..:·.·.·.:_:-.:: ,:.2::5:_·.·. :· :·4-8'·<·•• Gerald.White'' · · . (···:15' o ·. 15·(· !' 
. cu 10,.1 . . . 29 09 ·' 3():51~:'·.-..PaulJokisch ·· '· I it 0 ~. tt.:·.~ ,·
following Notre•Dame punt:•'-: ·. -. · . r: 
. T~ird-Down Conversions· . : 4~14 · '6-13' ·Bob Pci-ryman .. 1 ·7. o·. . 7 ... !;
A~l05,523(c)· · · ---· ·.·..• .... 
t" 
, .. !; 
j:,
9 

1: 
Michigan State 



Brown Turns Night Into Light 
By CHUCK FREEBY In the middle of this September night, Tim Brown saw daylight. A lot of daylight. In fact, the Notre Dame sophomore saw enough daylight to take the second-half kickoff 93 yards down the left sideline for a touchdown to spark the Irish to a 27-10 victory over Michigan State before the usual capacity crowd of 59,075 at Notre Dame Stadium. "There was just a big hole," noted the speedy Brown. "I didn't have to do anything but run. The blockers did a great job, because nobody touched me." Maybe so, but Brown's speed had a lot to do with the play as well. 

"I was on the left side on that play," recalled Spartan safety Todd Krumm afterwards. "I thought we closed up the play but he snuck through. I was the last hope and I thought I could catch him, but at about the 20-yard line he put on the speed and scored the touchdown." 
"There was a breakdown between the second and third man and we missed a tackle," explained Michigan State coach George Perles. "It's a game of emotion and everybody was in the tank for a little while after that." 
Meanwhile, the Irish emotions stayed high throughout the evening. After receiving some criticism for its conservative performance 
· against Michigan the previous week, Notre Dame was determined not to let the same thing happen again. 
"I think what made us win this game was that our hearts were fully into it," noted Irish safety Pat Ballage. "We played this game differently than Michigan; we went out and had some fun. I feel that there was a lot more emotion behind the playing of this game. Everyone was psyched going in and we went out and did the job." 
That was basically the theme of Faust's pre-game talk, as captain Mike Larkin explained. 
"Coach Faust told us going into the game, 'Forget about last week and what we did at Michigan. Let's go out and win this one.' We were at the bottom of the hill and climbing in this game. Now I feel we are heading a lot faster up it." 


Still, it was an uphill struggle for the Irish, as the offense seemed to be in the dark throughout the first half, despite the presence of the Musco portable lights on this 70­degree September evening. In fact, it looked to be a long evening when Michigan State freshman quarterback Bobby McAllister's first collegiate drive ended in a touchdown. 
McAlister, who was filling in for injured veteran passer Dave Yarema, didn't look like a freshman as he led the Spartans on a 10­play, ·82-yard drive. He completed all three of his passes in the series, helping set up Lorenzo White's four-yard jaunt into the end zone to give Michigan State a 7-0 lead. 
"I was pretty excited on the first drive," admitted McAllister who became only the second freshman to start a game at quarter­back in Spartan history. "We moved the ball well, and things seemed to be going our way." 
The Irish responded ~m their second possession, though, thanks to the efforts of their own All-America tailback, Allen Pinkett. On second and 22 from the Irish 30, Pinkett hulled up the middle, broke two tackles and cut to the left side on his way to a 35-yard romp into Spartan territory. 
Pinkett's run gave Notre Dame om1.rterback Steve Beuerlein room to operate, and he performed with clinical precision. First, he threaded. the needle to Brown on a 15-yard completion, before finding a lonely Tony Eason for an 18-yard touchdown pass to tie the game at 7-7. 
From that point, the Irish defense made some adjustments and dominated the line of scrimmage, not allowing Michigan State to cross midfield for the rest of the first half. 
"He (McAllister) hurt us a couple of times on the outside in the first drive," said Faust. "We tried to negate him by going to what we call our sub-defense and using (Mike) Haywood as an extra backer to use his speed." 
Perles saw it from a different viewpoint. ''After the first drive of the game, it wasn't a matter of Notre Dame adjusting to our game as it was our team not sticking with the game plan. We just didn't execute." . 
Whatever the case, the Irish defense was doing its best to take Michigan State out of the game. Unfortunately, the offense seemed to be doing its best to keep the Spartans in the game, wasting scoring opportunities in every way imaginable. 
First, Notre Dame gambled on fourth and one and at the Michigan State 27. Beuerlein had fullback Frank Starns open in the right flat, but overthrew his man. 
"I could have shot myself on that one," said Beuerlein. ''All I had to do was to get it over one little defender, and I just put too much on it." 
It was the beginning of a disastrous second quarter for Notre Dame. The Irish continued to get good field position and drive the ball into Spartan territory, but they found a different way to come up empty each time. A 



'I 
' 

miscue in the backfield, an ineligible receiver penalty, and an interception of a Beuerlein pass in the end zone squelched scoring opportunities on the next three Notre Dame possessions, leaving the game tied at 7-7 at halftime. 
"I was disturbed that we didn't score more in the first half," understated Faust, who had to wonder what his offense had to do to put points on the board. 
The answer was to get the ball into Brown's hands. Eleven seconds and 93 yards later it was 14-7. 
It came just in time, too, as the Irish continued to miss opportunities and began to give them to the Spartans. John Carney missed a 53-yard field-goal attempt, before the usually sure-handed Pinkett fumbled on the next possession to give Michigan State the ball on the Irish 35. 
White and McAllister began to use their speed to poke away at the Irish defense. First, White turned the comer on the left side to pick up 11. of his 124 yards, leaving Faust to exclaim, "He's not a good running back. He's a great one." 
McAllister then used a block from White on 17-yard scramble to the Irish nine. However, the Irish defense stiffened, and the Spartans called on Chris Caudell to boot a 21-yard field goal and narrow the margin to 14-10. 
"We were stopped on the five and it could 
12 

'. ··.' 

' ' Wh~n l ~tilr1:~d·. 


my .dive· tl)e·· ball was· 
·:· still·•:on:.the~tee·.·a.nd· ·1 · -~_-·knew .. Ihadit.;·:(~~atty·;·_ sm()t~ered Jt.·.I got .it· 


have been a big play for us to get in at that point," remark~d Perles. 
Instead, the Irish answered with a big play, and once again they turned to Tim Brown. On the second play of the fourth quarter, Beuerlein used play action and hit Brown in midstride on a fly pattern for a 49-yard gain to the Spartan two. It was a pass which made both receiver and quarterback very happy. 
"We felt we could go deep against them," nqted Brown. "Their corner speed is not the best, and we thought we could take advan­tage of that." 
"We learned a few things last week," added Beuerlein, who felt the pass answered any questions about his injured right shoulder. 
"Teams are going to be stacked to stop the man up the middle, but we've got the talent to overcome that. We've got guys who can catch the ball, and we just have to get it to them." 

He did just that, and on Pinkett's school­record 674th career carry, the Irish scored. Carney ended a string of 27 consecutive PATs by missing the extra point, but the Irish held a comfortable 20-10 lead. 
The Spartans threatened to make that lead uncomfortable one more time, as Phil Parker intercepted Beuerlein and returned the ball 20 yards to the Irish 31. Three plays resulted in no gain, though, and Brandy Wells settled the matter by blocking Caudell's 49-yard 


Mike Haywood's weakside support made life difficult for Michigan State rookie quarterback Bobby McAllister.­


Passing ·. Att.Comp·~ Int. \ards' -TD Long Michigan Suite. : . 3: 0-10 MSU·. ND B: McAllister 17-'4 2.55 0 27 · .• First Downs · 11 19 .·Pass Receiving . No~_mrds TD LongNotre Dame -.'7 · 0 ·· 13..:...27 • ' Rushing 8 ·7 Mark Ingram .. 3 .47 0 27
7 
o·· · 8.

• Scoring Sumt:nary · ·Passing ·· 3 · 12 Bobby Morse· i 8 
.. First Quarter Ti~c Nn MS . Penalty-·. . · 0 ·o : .·M:s.:...:..Lorenzo white 4run · · · · 10:28 0 . 7 _ · Rushing Attempts 49 · 43 · · .NotreDame · .. " (Chris Caudell kick). . · Yards Rushing _·· ·. 201 197 ~. Rushing. ; ·AU. Gain Lost Net , TD LOng 
· Drive: 82 yards in 10 play!(in 4:32 ·. · Yards Lost Rushing · 33 · 15 _ Allen Pinkett _ · · 25 123 7 . 116 :1 . 35 .. .·_·_'following opening kickoff. · · Net Yafds Rushing 168 · i82 ' Frank Starns · . 6 26 0 : 26 · ' 1 .. 8 . ND-:-TonyEason 17pass .. < 2:45 ·. 7 7 NeiYaids Passing 55 217 H.Francisco 5···18 ·1 17 0' .10 
. from Steve Beuerlein •..·.Passes Attempted · 17 29 ·Pernell Thylor 2 .11 0 11· · 0 :7 · :<(John Carney kick).· . . . . . Passes Completed . 4 15. . Tom Monahan· · 2 7 0 7 · -0 . 7 'Drivei54.yards in6 playsin3:08. Had Intercepted. 2 2 TeiTy Andrysiak · . 1 5 o 5 · -o s .' · following MichiganState_punt; . . . Thtal Offensive ~lays· , ·. :· .. 66 72 Steve Beuerleiri . . 2 · · 7 7 · 0 . · 0 . 7 ·. Third ·Quarter: . . . ·. -.. · . .· Total Net Yards . .. . .' .: _223'• J99' · Passing ' ·Att~Comp~ .Int. V..rds TD Long . 
. ND-:-Tim Brown 93'kickoffi'eturn 14:49 14: · 7 ·· .· .AverageGain Per Play ~-3.4. · 5.5 Steve Beuerlein ·27 ~ 15 2 217. · I·· 49. · ·. ··(John Carney kick) . : ·: ;. · . Fumbles: Number~Lost · · . )-·0 . 2-1 Terry·Andrysiak .2 o -o ·o · o · · o ..· MS~Chris Caudell21 FG. · S:O·f 14 10 · Penalties: Number-:.Yards. '-7~so· 6-6f · Pass Receiving No; fuds TD Long 
· ·. · Drive: 30 'yards in 7 play~ i.n 2:58 · · Interceptions: Number-Yards · · 2-36 2-0 :Reggie Ward 5 · 64 0 :· 16' ·: folloWing Shane Bullough recovery . Number ofPuriti..:....Yards . 9~392 4-169 ·nm Brown . · 4 · 88 o··. ~9 
ofNotre Dame fumble.• .· .. -· · Average Per Pimt · . . 43.5 . · 42.2 · :·Tony Eason . 2 25 · 1 .· 17 ·.. Fourth Quarter·:< . · ::::: ..·::: ·· Punt Returns: }Jumber:-:-Yards . ·. 1~ , · ·4-44-Joel Williams ·· • I 19 0 19 :: · ND·'-'·Allen Pinkett' 2riin: . · . 13:54 · io ··.10 · · ·. . Kickoff Retu~s: Number-:-Yards; · 2-21 · . '. 3-125 Tom Rehder · ·1 ; 11 · . 0 · 11 ·-~; .'';<(JohiiCaniey kickfails) _ . . , Third-Down Conversi~ns -· · 3-15 · · 5-13 · Allen Pinkett . 1.: 6 0 • 6 
· ' :,:::_Drive: _68 yards in 4 plays iri 1:25 . . . . . . · ·' · Frank Starns 1· · .. 4. · .0_ : . 4 . . . , .. 'following Michigan ~tate punt.·. •. lridividual StatistiCs · ': ND~Frank Starns 5. nin ·' · · 4:22 27 10·· . Michigan State, . -· 
. . . (John Carney kick) . . . . Rushing · . ~ Att. Gain Lost · Net : TD Long :.>.-Drive: 45 yards in 8 plays in3:10 · · Lorenzo White-~. 31 130~ · · 7 123 : 1 :}8 ... ·:_;rolloYiingBraridyWetlsblockof B. McAllister ·· .·11 · 46 : ·26 .· 20 -0 . 
:; ·'/.:Michigan State field goal attempt. · Keith. Gates . · · 4 · 14 · .'o' .· 14 · · 0 ­~.::A::5?,075(c)·.: ··-·.:,,,;· ·: · · ·.·.·. _:B,o.~by~o~s;. ::·3:. 11 o' _'-1.1·\:: ~-.. 
• .' • .~.' -• : < •• ·_ ' .. • • • 

field-goal attempt. 
"We noticed that their kicker didn't approach the ball very quickly," commented Wells. "When I started my dive the ball was still on the tee and I knew I had it. I really smothered it. I got it with my chest. That kind of broke their backs as far as coming back was concerned." 
Indeed, the Spartan offense was never heard from again, while the Irish were able to tack on another touchdown, even without the aid of Brown. Instead, Pinkett did most of the work, carrying five times in the eight-
play drive before Starns scored on a five-yard burst up the middle to account for the final score. While the Irish offense sputtered at times, nobody seemed to mind after the game. 
"We kept to our gameplan tonight," said Faust. "It was just a matter of settling down after the first touchdown." 
"I think we played a superb game on both sides of the line," added Pinkett, who rushed for 116 yards on 25 carries. "The defense played an exceptional game, and I think Tim (Brown) had the best game of the day. 
-----~--.v.--"lia;i. -A-filii~ 
. ·,.-~;t~-­

"We're pumped for next week, and I think we all have the mental part of next week's game fully prepared. We'll enter next week's game with the same attitude we had going into this week's game. We knew we had to go out and play a great game and we did." 
So after a dark week at Ann Arbor, the Irish seemed to be able to see the light at the end of the tunnel after beating Michigan State. Unfortunately, it only turned out to be the oncoming Boilermaker Special. 


Purdue 

A Bonanza for the Boilers 
By KAREN CROAKE The dazed look on Allen Pinkett's face was a dead giveaway. It had not been a pleasant afternoon for Notre Dame's senior tailback and his Irish teammates. Standing in the anteroom of Purdue's Ross­Ade Stadium locker area, Pinkett found himself speechless as he gazed aimlessly into space and pondered what he had seen during the previous three and a half hours. Why had the Irish running game managed a measly 56 yards on 41 attempts, far and away its lowest rushing output of the season? Why had quarterback Steve Beuerlein completed only seven of 25 passes for 88 yards and been sacked five times in a performance he freely admitted was the worst he could remember? Why had the Irish defense proven totally incapable of dealing with Jim Everett's passing to the Purdue running backs-as he parlayed 27 completions into 368 passing yards, the most ever against a Notre Dame team? How was it that all these things could go so wrong against a Purdue team that would go on to finish 5-6 and end up one of only four teams on the Irish schedule to finish out of the money in the bowl bonanza? The aftereffects of the 35-17 Purdue victory-that dropped the Irish to 1-2-left Pinkett and many of his cohorts visibly stunned. The silence in the Notre Dame lockerroom was deafening. Even more stunning were the comments emanating from the winners' dressing quarters. On an afternoon when Everett had firmly etched his name into the Notre Dame record section, both he and Boiler coach Leon Burtnett suggested that it really hadn't been one of Everett's better days. If this was just another day at the office for Everett, the Irish certainly didn't want to see him at his peak. "I don't know if the offense was hitting on all eight cylinders today," wondered Everett, who admitted to feeling a bit woozy after a first-quarter hit by Irish linebacker Tony Furjanic. "I had some trouble focusing in my right eye for awhile. I was throwing the ball high all day. I wasn't following through like I should." Indeed, it could have been worse for the Irish.· Despite throwing three touchdown passes and engineering a 482-yard attack, · Everett had one scoring strike dropped. Several other throws were just beyond the fingertips of Boilermaker receivers. "Our passing philosophy is to take what the defense gives us," explained Everett. 


"They were trying to take away our outside receivers and give us the backs. That was fine because we wanted to make their linebackers run." 
Notre Dame's linebackers, along with the rest of the defense, were chasing Everett and company all afternoon long-to no avail. Everett, who mostly operated out of the shotgun, connected with six different receivers. Coming out of the backfield, Rodney Carter and Ray Wallace combined for 12 catches, while tight end Marty.Scott grabbed five. 
"Everett just picked us apart," admitted Irish coach Gerry Faust. "We tried every­thing. You've got to give him credit. He's one of the best quarterbacks we've faced since I've been at Notre Dame." 
Everett, who became the first Purdue quarterback to notch back-to-back victories over Notre Dame since Mike Phipps turned the hat trick in the late 1960s, wasn't bothered by Notre Dame's defensive scheme at all. When he didn't like what he saw at the line of scrimmage, the 6-5 senior routinely called an audible. When his receivers were covered, he tucked the ball under his arm and ran. On two of his three touchdown passes, Everett withstood the charge of an Irish blitz and waited until the last possible moment to unleash the ball. Both times he was right on target. 
"We tried to do some things to confuse him, but Everett did a heckuva job picking them up," said Faust. "We tried to get a ru~h from the outside, but when we flushed him out, he's got the ability to run. We'd have good coverage downfield, but then they'd slip that guy out of the backfield-and boom." 
Although Everett's mastery of the airwaves attracted most of the cheers from the sellout crowd of 69,338, Purdue's unheralded defense reaped its share of hoots and hollers, thanks to Burtnett's towel-waving. In fact, the Boiler stop troops really stole the show. 
"I heard all week long it was going to be an offensive game, and we were going to need 100 points to win," said Burtnett. "But I said, 'Mark my words, it wi,ll be a defensive win.' Our defense won the game.'' 
Burtnett, architect of Purdue's fabled "Junk Defense" in the late 1970s, installed his "Guard-Scheme" attack for the Irish. The G­Scheme formation used linemen over both offensive guards, but no player over center. It befuddled, confused and wore down the Irish bulk and brawn. 
"Notre Dame's offensive line is huge so we couldn't afford to pound away at them," explained Burtnett who now owns two straight wins over the Irish. "We had to use our quickness. The G-Scheme helped us in our stunting, which allowed us to get to the quarterbacks." 
Purdue's defensive front neutralized Pinkett, Notre Dame's bread and butter, and harassed Beuerlein and back-up Terry Andrysiak into total ineffectiveness. 
Pinkett managed just 45 yards in 21 carries-his lowest total since his freshman Coverage on Steve Griffin by Troy Wilson and Mike Kovaleski produces one of Jim Ev­erett's few incompletions. 

~ 
I, 
season, whiie the two quarterbacks were sacked six times for losses of 53 yards and forced into throwing two interceptions, 

'!I including one that was returned for a touchdown. "Defense was supposed to be Purdue's weakness," said Faust. "They showed us
I 
1:i some things we hadn't seen before, and we tried to adjust at halftime. But their defensive front controlled our offensive front. That was the difference." 
!I 
Purdue's defense knew that oftentimes the ij Irish were only as good as Pinkett. Heading into the Purdue contest, the Irish stood 13-5 
:j 
in games in which their star tailback had 1 topped the 1 00-yard rushing mark. I "We knew we had· a good chance at 1,I winning if we kept him under 100 yards," ! said Burtnett. "That was our goal."
.i 
"We figured if we hit Pinkett a few good

!l 
times, he wouldn't want to run with the ball," said Boiler defensive tackle Don Baldwin. ''After we took Pinkett away, they were frustrated." 
"We were whipped," admitted Pinkett, blinking back tears of frustration. "We just couldn't get it going." 
But Pinkett need not shoulder all the blame for this debacle. The Boilers thoroughly corralled Notre Dame's passing game as well. 
"I played lousy," admitted Beuerlein. "It was the worst game of my life. They always seemed to be in the right coverage when we'd expect them to do one thing and they'd 
do something else." Purdue knew early on it had Beuerlein's number. 
"Beuerlein's a fine quarterback," said defensive tackle Kevin Holley. "But we would get in his face and he would just crumble." 
"Beuerlein didn't seem to have much zip on the ball," said Boiler safety Ron Wood­son, who made 10 tackles and broke up two passes, to compliment his 30-yard intercep­tion return that accounted for Purdue's final touchdown. "He was a predictable passer. We knew where we had to be." 
But as good as Purdue's offense and defense were on this glorious fall afternoon, the Irish also played a big part in their own demise. Critical mental mistakes and costly penalties gave the Boilers momentum and confidence as well as poise. Purdue's second touchdown, which came with just 57 seconds remaining in the first half, resulted directly from an Irish faux pas. Notre Dame appeared to have halted Purdue on the Irish 43-yard line. But the Irish had needed 12 men to pull that off, and the officials caught them. That 15-yard penalty for illegal participation gave Everett another chance. He didn't waste it, lofting a perfect arch to Wallace for the 15-yard touchdown. Two other times Notre Dame tried to run its offensive alignment with just 10 men. 
The last and, probably, most important part of Purdue's game plan had been to take the lead first. Burtnett had done his home­work. 
"History tells you that Notre Dame doesn't come back very well," said Burtnett. "I wanted to jump on them. We did that and, yet, I was somewhat surprised by the way things went." 
Everything seemed to go Purdue~s way from the opening kickoff. 
On the Boilermakers' first possession, Everett completed three straight passes, including a 32-yarder to Scott, to move to the Notre Dame 15-yard line. Everett then exhibited one of the many traits that figure to make him a valuable pro draft choice. With all his receivers blanketed by defenders, the savvy Everett hulled his way up the middle for a 14-yard gain. Only Furjanic's bone­jarring tackle kept him out of the end zone. But on the next play, Carter sneaked in over right guard for the score. 
Purdue failed to cash in on two prime scoring opportunities in the first quarter when wide receiver Mark Jackson dropped a pass all alone at the Notre Dame 10 and when holder Lance Schieb fumbled the snap on a field-goal attempt. 
But the Boilers did double that 7-0 lead with Wallace's touchdown reception following the 12-men penalty. 
In the first half, Notre Dame's offense ran the ball 11 of its first 14 first-down plays, netting a total of just seven yards. And Pinkett, who carried on five straight first­down tries, accounted for six of those yards. 
Only John Carney's 48-yard field goal on 


The Irish pass rush, here by senior Mike Kiernan, didn't usually prove enough to keep Boilermaker Jim Everett from his appointed rounds. 
16 

the last play of the half kept the Irish from walking into the lockerroom with a goose egg around their necks. 
"I really felt we were still in the ballgame," said Faust. 

But Purdue's domination continued into the second half. On their first possession, the Boilermakers marched 80 yards in 12 plays. Everett capped the drive with a 12-yard scoring strike to Steve Griffin. Jonathan Briggs' PAT gave Purdue a 21-3 lead. 
After that score, the Boilers decided to play it relatively conservative until midway through the fourth quarter when the Irish mounted a comeback attempt. 
Thanks to a sideline-to-sideline 33-yard pass from Beuerlein to Tony Eason, Notre Dame moved to the Boilers' three-yard line. From there, Pinkett ran over the middle for the touchdown. The two-point conversion pass from Beuerlein to Pat Cusack brought Notre Dame back to within 10 at the 8:53 mark. 

But the Boilers weren't about to let this one slip away. Everett quickly hooked up with Wallace for a 33-yard touchdown to move ahead 28-11. 
Then, on the first play from scrimmage after the kickoff, Woodson intercepted Andrysiak's pass and returned it 30 yards for the last Purdue touchdown. 
Notre Dame added another score of its own-a one-yard run by Hiawatha Francisco-but that touchdown didn't account for much more than six points and respecta­bility. 
Purdue then mercifully ran out the clock. 
"Notre Dame didn't do enough playing," said Wallace, who paced Purdue's adequate 


running game with 65 yards. "They just weren't ready. You could see it in their eyes." Sadly enough, no one on the Notre Dame team bothered to disagree. "I felt our intensity level wasn't there,'' said cornerback Pat Ballage. 
Notre Dame had few highlights to point to in this game film. Purdue gained more than twice as many yards as Notre Dame (482 to 217), had 11 more first downs (27 to 16), ran a dozen more offensive plays (86 to 74), controlled the ball for seven more minutes and converted nearly half of its third-down conversion attempts. 

"Last year our team motto was 'Tough times never last, tough people do,' " said Burtnett. "This year it's 'Tough people did, tough people will.' We wanted our kids to remember that and remember the kind of enthusiasm they had when we beat Notre Dame a year ago." 
The Boilers got the message, and so did the Irish-loud and clear. 

Air Force 
Not Supposed to be This Way 
By MIKE McCALL 
Camey skick will come from the Falcon 27-yard line. 
"We know we have a score to settle with 
them, but we can't get caught up in that," 
said a determined Steve Beuerlein. "It's 
something you can't avoid thinking about. If 
anybody had beaten us the last three games it 
would be on our minds. It makes you more 
determined." 
Three straight times the Falcons of Air 
Force had struck down the big kid on the 
block, Notre Dame. 
Three straight times Notre Dame had to 
face those awful postgame questions. How? 
Why? 
And three straight times Notre Dame couldn't come up with the right answers. 
"They present a lot of problems," said a determined Gerry Faust. "The biggest one is we can't seem to be able to beat 'em." 
For the first time in the series, the shoe was on the other foot. It was the high-flying, and undefeated, 17th-ranked Falcons who were the favorites. And just three games into its season, Notre Dame was stumbling, struggling, and searching for answers at 1-2. 
"I think it's a general lack of confidence," suggested a determined Mike Perrino. "We're more worried about making mistakes than just going out and dominating people. "We're definitely a better club than what we've shown. We've got to stop worrying about what happens and go out and play." 
The stakes were as high as the Colorado Springs altitude. A Notre Dame loss would mean its worst start since the 1962 campaign when the Irish started 1-4 and finished 5-5. 
A Falcon win would give the Air Force a shot at becoming the Academy's finest team in its 30-year football history and a chance at a major bowl bid. 
And, perhaps, more than anything else, four straight wins over the Irish. 
"There's no use kidding ourselves," said Air Force athletic director Colonel John Clune. "The first thing out of the mouths of people around the country is, 'You guys have beaten Notre Dame three straight years.' That's all they want to talk about. 
"From the standpoint of national promi­nence, prestige and recognition, those wins are the most significant things ever to happen to our football program." 

This time, however, things would be be any 30-17 or 21-7 humiliations as in '82 frustration, things would be different. different. This time the Irish wouldn't be 
and '84. This time there wouldn't be a 

"It's a pride factor for all the seniors rightcaught looking ahead at another opponent on heartbreaking last-second blocked field goal 
now," said a determined Allen Pinkett. "It's the schedule, or at possible bowl prospects. as in the 23-22 loss in '83. 

a matter of pride just knowing that we beatNo, not this time. This time there wouldn't This time, finally, after three years of the· Force, that's what I call Air Force, one 


Falcon quarterback Bart Weiss darts away from Irish defenders Rick DiBernardo (43) and Matt Dingens (97). 
time before we're finished. 
"They've just outplayed us and whipped us. But I really don't think we've taken them seriously before. I know we've never looked at them like we do opponents like the Penn States and Michigans. I wouldn't say beating Air Force is our biggest goal, but it's a big goal. It's been downright embarrassing the last three years." 
ABC Sports, Keith Jackson, Frank Broyles, a national television audience and the largest crowd in Air Force history would be there . . . ready and waiting to bury or praise the Irish. 
"I think we can shut down anybody," said Air Force outside linebacker Pat Malack­owski. "I believe we'll be ready to go. Notre Dame had better know that to beat us, they'll need 60 minutes of great football. I'm sure . they want us real bad. Years from now, it'd be great to say we beat Notre Dame four years in a row." 
''All I can say is I sure hope this game means something to our guys," said Faust. "I hope it means something to 'em every time they step on the field. I think Air Force will be up and we'll be up. I think it'll be a great football game." 
This time things would be different. 

Camey has already connected from 28, 33 and 40 yards out this aftemoon. His 37-yard try will give the Irish an 18-13 lead and 
probably seal a hard-fought Irish win. 
A full house of 52,153 had barely settled in when Air Force quarterback Bart Weiss and fullback Johnny .Smith botched the opening play from scrimmage. When Notre Dame lineback Robert Banks fell on the loose ball at the Falcon 16-yard line, Irish eyes were smiling from coast to coast. 
This time things would be different. This time the Irish would drive those 16 yards and put the ball in the end zone. This time the Irish would take advantage of golden opportunities and end their three-year torment at the hands of Air Force. 
Instead, it was the start of a frustrating afternoon when chance and luck slipped through Notre Dame hands as it had time and time before. 
Pinkett raced .11 yards to the Falcon five to set up a first-and-goal situation, but then the Irish offense stuttered, stalled, blundered and finally hit reverse. 
On first down, tight end Joel Williams jumped offside. Trying again on first and goal from the 10, Beuerlein was forced from the pocket and scrambled for three yards. 
On second and goal from the seven, Beuerlein's pass deflected off the hands of a diving Tony Eason in the end zone. 
On third and seven, Beuerlein tripped over 

fullback Frank Starns, who had already slipped. The Irish had to settle for a 28-yard John Carney field goal. 
"My tight end was wide open, and I tripped over my own fullback," said Beuerlein. "They didn't stop us. We did it to ourselves. We should have scored about four more times than we did. But we had breakdowns. They always seem to happen when we can't afford them." 
Still, Air Force did its very best ... or worst, to give Notre Dame every chance to break its run of bad luck. 
The high-flying Falcon offense was grounding itself with three fumbles in ·its first seven plays, losing two. Yet the Irish could only put three points on the scoreboard. 
Camey is three ofthree this year and seven of eight during his career between 30 and 39 yards. 
Notre Dame took a 6-0 lead after halting the Falcon offense on downs on the Irish 35­yard line. Notre Dame moved methodically downfield. with Beuerlein hitting Reggie Ward for 14 yards plus Mark Green for nine to go with a Pinkett plunge to the Falcon 38­yard line. 
Another first down and the Irish were· threatening on the Air Force 16. Four plays later ... stutter, s~ll, blunder and the Irish 

, 
·.···-···· . 

The Falcons didn't throw a lot of passes, but the ones they did were effective, as Troy Wilson discovers. 
led 6-0 after a Carney 33-yard boot. 
Air Force wiped out that lead quickly on 
its next possession on a six-play, 80-yard 
march aided by two Irish penalties. 
Weiss capped the march with a 24-yard 
scoring strike to halfback Kelly Pittman, who 
was all alone in the right corner of the end 
zone. 
Tom Ruby added a 20-yard field goal to make it 10-6 but Carney added his third kick of the day to make it 10-9. 
Notre Dame bungled another chance at ·taking the lead just before intermission. With the clock stopped for a first down at the Air Force 41 with 18 seconds left in the half, the Irish, with no timeouts, decided to forego another opportunity to get better field position. Instead, Carney was sent in to try a 59-yard field goal. 
"I imagine it's my fault for not being prepared," said Carney. 
"I thought we would run one more play and then throw the ball out of bounds to make it easier on John," said Beuerlein. "But the coaches wanted to make sure we had a chance for three points." 
Not much of a chance. Carney's kick fell painfully short. 
Asked why his team, which had managed one first-half touchdown in four games, has had so much trouble when it gets close to the goal line, Faust said, "IfI knew the answer to that, we'd be a winner." 
Beuerlein will hold with. DiBernardo snapping. 
Still, Air Force was willing to play the 
perfect host for an Irish upset. On its initial 
play of the second half, Weiss fumbled into 
the waiting hands of Rick DiBernardo at the 
Falcon 42-yard line to set up Notre Dame's 
only touchdown. 
But even that score didn't come without 
some help from the Falcons. 
The Irish offense moved to the Falcon four-yard line on eight plays. Two plays later the Irish faced a third and goal from the seven-yard line, but Notre Dame was given new life when a holding call went against the 
Falcons on Beuerlein's third-down pass 
attempt. 

Two plays later Pinkett, who finished with 142 yards on 31 carries, squirmed into the end zone from the two. When a wide-open Williams dropped a Beuerlein two-point conversion pass, Faust dropped to the ground. 
"There are a lot of mistakes in a football game," said guard Tim Scannell. "It happens ours came at bad times." 
DiBernardo s snap is good. 
A 35-yard field goal by Ruby late in the third quarter cut the Irish lead to 15-13 after an illegal-man-downfield penalty against the Falcons wiped out an apparent touchdown. 
With 10: 16 to play, Notre Dame began moving. Maybe, just maybe things would be different this time. 
"Things didn't look good for us," said Falcon coach Fisher DeBerry. "But our ball players don't ever give up." 
It was simple football. Pinkett right. Pinkett left. And Pinkett up the middle. 

"We decided to play power football and we took the ball and just jammed it down their throat," said Pinkett. "We were pretty . efficient until we got down to the goal line and then we had a couple of breakdowns." 
Pinkett got the call on six of seven plays with Starns picking up 17 yards on the second play of the drive. The Irish moved 57 yards to a first and goal at the Air Force two. 
Beuerleinsplace is perfect. 

"We're not going to let it happen! We're not·going to let it happen!" said Falcon linebacker Terry Maki who terrorized the Irish all afternoon with 30 tackles -19 solos and 11 assists. 
And the Irish offense helped out. 

Pinkett was tripped up for a loss of one. Running for the seventh straight time Pinkett was nailed for a six-yard loss when blocker Starns ran right on a sweep left. On third down, Beuerlein was called for intentionally grounding the ball. 
In three easy steps, the Irish went from first and goal at the two-yard line, to fourth and goal at the 20. 
Stutter, stall, blunder and the Irish had to hope a Carney field goal could clinch the game. 
Carney kicks. 

''Air Force was waiting for us to crack," said Beuerlein. ''And we did it today, too many times." 
Too many is right. The Falcons had four turnovers but the Irish could tum them into just nine points. Notre Dame had first-and­goal chances at the two and at the five, and came away with just a first-quarter field goal. Beuerlein had a pass intercepted at the four, another dropped at the five and another dropped in the end zone on a two-point conversion attempt. 
Despite those blunders, the Irish still had a chance to win with 5: 16 left to play. 
Air Force had to kick from the 25-yard line because of an unsportsmanlike penalty following Carney's blocked field-goal attempt that was returned for atouchdown, but the Irish couldn't take advantage of those extra yards. Instead of excellent field position, the Irish bobbled their way to their own 24-yard line. 
On the first play from scrimmage, Notre Dame was whistled for illegal procedure. 

The Irish recovered from that goof long enough for Beuerlein to connect on a 16-yard toss to Ward and for Pinkett to gallop 20 yards to the Air Force 45. Runs by Hiawatha Francisco and Starns moved the Irish five yards closer. 
Notre Dame could get no further. 

On fourth and five from the Falcon 40 with three minutes left, Beuerlein needed a replacement for an exhausted Starns. With players running on and off the field, the Irish had to waste a timeout. 
It didn't matter. The Irish were called for offside after the timeout. On fourth and 10, Notre Dame punted away any hopes for a comeback win. 
Its blocked. 

"I kept saying to myself over and over, 'Somebody has got to come up with the big play. Somebody has got to give us a lift,' " said DeBerry. 
That somebody was the hard-hitting Maki. 

"I knew we were going to get one," said Maki. "We had watched their films and we knew they had some flaws. They weren't protecting well on that-side of the line. We went past their tight end and I just stuck my hand straight out." 
When the ball finally· came down to earth it plopped right into the hands of a waiting 
A.J. Scott. For Scott, it was a dream come true. "It was the longest 77 yards of my life," said Scott. Part of those 77 yards took him in front of a stunned Irish bench. 
"I was close to being out of bounds, I sure was," said Scott. "I was angling towards the corner of the end zone and I ran right in front of the Notre Dame bench. I was 
sweating it, believe me. I was saying, 'Stay 
in, stay in, stay in.' I'm glad my legs 
listened." 
It was Carney's first blocked field goal attempt during his Irish career. 
"I couldn't tell what happened," said Carney. "I had my head down. But I thought everything went as scheduled with the snap, hold and kick. It felt good. I didn't think the kick was low. I guess we had some sort of breakdown up front.'' 
Things were supposed to be different this time. The Irish defense had kept the Falcon wishbone in check. Allen Pinkett had rushed for over 100 yards. Steve Beuerlein had passed for over 200 yards. It should have been different. 
But it all boiled down to one thing. "We screwed up and they didn't," said Scannell. 
"It seems like every time we need a big play something happens," said a dejected Beuerlein. "The receivers slip, or the fullback slips and trips me. Or the tailback and fullback run the wrong direction on a big play. Hey, I threw an interception down close to the goal line, and there's no excuse for that. 
"Now that stuff is going to happen from time to time, but it seems like it always happens to us. The fact is, we had our chances. We just didn't do it." 
"If we lose to Air Force, it will be very difficult to pick ourselves up," said Perrino 
:i
before the game. "If we're 1-3, we're in 
I~ 
serious trouble." I I
When A.J. Scott danced in the end zone 

it
and Terry Maki danced at midfield, the Irish 
ill 
were 1-3 ... and in serious trouble. 
il! 
;.:I:
I' I 
I 
~ I 

. ' 
Army 



A Matter of Respectability 
By EDDIE WIDTE 
There was nowhere to go but up. 
But, it wouldn't be easy. 
Notre Dame, offto its worst start in more 
than 20 years after losing three of its first 
four games, saw vultures flying above Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
This weekend the Irish were home (the site of their only win so far in '85) but they had to battle the undefeated and 19th-ranked Cadets of Army, the top-ranked rushing team in the nation.. 
The Army-Notre Dame series had seen some classic confrontations. There had been plenty of special moments in this glittering series. And this afternoon's matchup would be no different. When the contest had ended, the Irish had made amends for their slow start with a 24-10 victory and standout Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkett had made history. 
For it was on this day, against one of its most famous opponents, that Notre Dame saw the senior from Sterling, Va., become the school's all-time leading groundgainer. Pinkett now had more yardage than any other Irish runner. 
Think about it. 
Vagas Ferguson, Jerome Heavens, Phil Carter, Emil Sitko, Joe Heap, Johnny Lattner, Jim Crowley and Don Miller. Even George Gipp. Pinkett had passed them all. 
In another time, in another game, his feat 
would have made headlines. Today it was the 
Irish victory which got the coverage. 
"The game is most important," said the 
always-humble Pinkett afterward. "The fact 
that we won, that we've gotten our confi­
dence back, is more important than any 
records." 
The special moment, when Pinkett became Notre Dame's own number one, came on a first-and-10 play from the Irish 37. With about six minutes to play in the first half, Pinkett ran a sprint draw and followed linemen Tim Scannell and Tom Doerger for a 17-yard scamper. He ended the day with 133 yards and one touchdown and had now gained 3,566 yards on the ground-just ahead of Vagas Ferguson's second-place career total of 3,472 yards. 
After being pressured by the media, Pinkett finally commented on the record. "The full effect hasn't hit me yet," he said after rushing over the century mark for the 20th time in an Irish uniform. "I think about records after the season. The thing I'm thinking about now is just winning. Every time I step on the field, all I want is for Notre Dame to win. I'm just glad it came in a victory." · 
"We're all proud of it (the record)," said Scannell. "I'm happy for Allen and I'm happy for the offensive linemen. We've all worked hard for it. We take pride in every yard he gains." 
"I'd sort of like to do something nice for 
., 
them (linemen)," added Pinkett. "When you 
think of it, I'm the one who receives all the 
recognition and they do all the work. They 
get all the blame if things go bad and I get 
all the credit when they go well. It's only 
right that I do something nice for them." 
While Pinkett's record was indeed a 
special Notre Dame moment, it was the men 
on the other side of the ball who really 
sparked the Irish win. Notre Dame's defense, 
which had allowed 74 points in the three 
previous losses, came through with a yeoman 
effort, holding Army's wishbone offense to 
only 196 yards on the ground -almost 200 
below its average and 32 points below its 
scoring average. The Irish defense also 
stiffened when the Cadets got close ­
holding Army to only three points in two of 
the three times Army got inside the Notre 
Dame five-yard line. 
"I thought our defense played very well," said a relieved Gerry Faust. "In the last two games we've only given up two touchdowns to the wishbone (the Irish faced Air Force two weeks before) and one was passing. I thought our staff did an exceiient job in preparation for this game." 
Army coach Jim Young, who had faced the Irish before when he was at Purdue, was not puzzled after the loss. "Most teams don't get to play against the wishbone that much," said Young. "I guess Notre Dame has had time to prepare after facing Air Force. They played good basic defense. We came here ready to 


• _.. ~ ' •J • • • • • ~ • ,. ' .r .. • ~·· • -, 
. .. ' . ..... . . ~ .. " . -" . . .. . . 

I 
! 
I 
! 
I I 
! I 
! 
j 
I 
...J ~ :I 
l 
I
1 I 
I 
Eric Dorsey's rushing tactics make life interesting for Army punter Harold Rambusch. ! 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
play but Notre Dame played errorless football,"added Young, who would eventually lead his team to a Peach Bowl triumph over Illinois. 
Irish defensive .tackle Eric Dorsey admitted the experience against Air Force had helped against Army. "We learned a lot about the wishbone from the Air Force game," said Dorsey, who had to pick up the slack up front when Wally Kleine was injured in practice the week before. "In fact the Army players were a little bigger than Air Force and couldn't get under us so easily. We practiced against the option since last spring, so we were ready for it. 
·~gainst Air Force, the key was stopping the quarterback. With Army, the key was stopping the fullback (Doug Black). We just hit him every play, whether he had the ball or not." 
Black, who began the game with a string of three straight 100-yard efforts, was held to just 93 yards on 21 carries. 
"That was a key," admitted Faust. "We 

knew going in we had to do a job on Black. 
He's a heckuva runner, a definite All­
' ' The game is 
·most import(.lnt. The f(lct that we won, ·. that we've gotten our· ·confidence back, is_ · more. irp.portant thari 
any records. l think about rec·ords after .

.: the season. '' · ~Allen Pinkett· 

American. I'm really proud of our defense and the way the young men battled back. They were down after the Air Force game but they showed what kind of heart they have by coming back and battling today. This is a second season for us." 
"We approach~d this with the idea that we were going to try to put behind us everything that happened so far this year," added junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who was 12 of 20 for 186 yards and one score. "I'm sitting here all happy. We came into this game with the right attitude." . 
Notre Dame got a break early when Steve Lawrence recovered an Army fumble on the game's third play. Six plays later, on a fourth­and-one attempt at the one, burly fullback Pernell Taylor steamrolled in for the Irish touchdown. John Carney's PAT gave the Irish 
a 7-0 advantage. 
"That touchdown gave us lots of confi­

dence," said Pinkett. "Our offense has lots of 
talent, and when you don't get touchdowns, 
it is extremely frustrating." · 
Just ask Irish fans . . . and Gerry Faust. 
"Once we got that touchdown," Pinkett 



went on, "it broke the frustration. We 
weren't so worried, and we just went out and 
played." 
Notre Dame didn't waste any time putting 
more points on the board as the Irish took 
the ball on their next possession and marched 
86 yards in 11 plays. Beuerlein capped the 
picture-perfect drive with a 19-yard scoring 
toss to Tim Brown. Carney's second PAT 
booted Notre Dame to a 14-0 lead. 
"I just told the guys, 'Hey, we're not 
coming out of here empty-handed,' " said 
Beuerlein of the first score. 
Notre Dame had seen five scoring 
opportunities turn up empty inside the 
opponents' 15-yard line so far in '85. 
"Our offensive linemen were the key 
today," added Beuerlein. ''Army left a lot of 
stuff open underneath and outside because 
they didn't have the speed to stay with 
(Reggie) Ward and (Tim) Brown. But our 
linemen dominated everything. They never 
let anybody near me all afternoon and they 
gave Pinkett a chance to squeeze through 
some pretty good holes." 
On the first series of the second quarter, 
Notre Dame's defense again sparkled. Army 
had driven to the Irish eight and had a first 
down. But four cracks at the goal line could 
only muster six yards and the Irish took over 
at the two. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame's offense sputtered and Army took over at the Irish 41 after a short punt. Army signalcaller Tory Crawford, who was held to just 60 yards rushing (he had 130 in a win over Boston College the week before), made the big play on first down when he connected with Benny White for a 37-yard gain to the four. On the next play, Crawford again shined. Being dragged down by Irish linebacker Cedric Figaro, Crawford pitched to William Lampley, who danced in for the score. Craig Stopa's PAT pulled the Cadets within seven at the half, 14-7. 
"They (Notre Dame's defense) used many different stunts and formations on us,'' said Crawford. "They are easily the largest team we have faced this year. Their size is incre9ible. We were confident at halftime. All we needed was a good start in the third quarter." 

Army's defense rose to the occasion on the second halfs first drive, holding the Irish to three plays and forcing a punt. Taking the ball at their own 42, the Cadets moved 53 yards in 13 plays before being stopped at the four when Irish tackle Eric Dorsey tied up Crawford for a loss .on third down. Stopa then nailed a 22-yard field goal to pull the Cadets within four. Army had some points, but the Irish defense won another battle. 
"That hurt us," admitted Young of the near miss. "It was the same kind of defense they used against Air Force. They had good quick~ess and strength. Against the wish­bone, you've got to run and get there." And Notre Dame got there. 
When Notre Dame took over on its own 18 following the Army score, the Irish put together one of their finest drives of the 

... ' . : • ..----• ~ . . . i • . . ~ ~ 
season. It started with a four-yard Pinkett run and 13 plays later Pinkett galloped in from a yard out for the score. All totaled, the march covered 82 yards in 14 plays and took 6:15 off the clock. Beuerlein was four for four throwing for 46 yards in the drive that 
offensive coordinator Mike Stock labeled, "a 
picture-perfect performance. We can't diagram them better than that." 
Pinkett's score seemed to take the air out of Army's black-and-gold balloon. The Cadets had good field position (Army 48) on the next drive but the Irish defense again held. Then Army reached the Irish 48 on its next possession only to be stopped again. 
Notre Dame finished the day's scoring 

when Carney booted a 21-yard field goal 
with 6:23 left to play. The scoreboard at 
Notre Dame Stadium read 24-10 and the 
Irish had a victory. 
"When you beat a good football team 

that's ranked like that, you get respectability 
back," said Faust. "We've had the opportu­
nity most of the first part of the season to get 
respectability because we've played some 
pretty good football teams." 
This afternoon, for a change, the Irish beat 

one of those pretty good football teams. 
')\ll the talk, all the pressure has been 

wearing on our nerves," said Pinkett. 
"Maybe this game was our chance to shut 
the critics up. It was a win, something we 
needed." 
"I'm sure everybody was waiting for us to 

fold our tents," added Scannell. "But 
everyone on this team just went out there 
with a loose attitude. We just played smart." 
Added senior linebacker Mike Larkin, 

·'That's what we needed-a win. It 
was nothing spectacular." 
And really, it wasn't. Pinkett was, 

however, but on this day, that was another 
story. 
' ' .. ~ . • -. ,! ~ " • 

...:l 
~ 
~ 
z 
z 
~ 
~ 
!;; 
-.­
Individual Statistics · Scoring Summary Amiy 0 .' . 7 . 3 0-10 Army· First Quarter · . nnicNDAR Rushing Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long,ND-Pernell Thylor lrun 11:36 7 0 Notre Dame. 14 0 ' 7 3-24 

0. 10
Doug Black· 21. 93': 0 93(John Carney kick) ·Tory Crawford 26 83 23 60 • 0 16 

: Drive: 16 yards in 6 plays .iri 2:45 ·Team Statistics . o 8.
Clarence Jones ·6 24 0 24 · following Steve Lawrence recovery Army ND · Scott Spellmon '2 23 7 16 0 23. of Army fumble. · . · First Downs 20 22. 
W.Lampley• 7 15 12 . 3 1. 10 

ND.;.,.Tim Brown 19 passf~m Rushing 14. 12 
5 10 Pnssing Att.Comp~ Int.'Thrds TD Long.
Steve Beuerlein : . 4:~6 · 14 . 0 · ' · · Passing . 
1 0 Tory Crawfoid . 9 5 . 0 . ,98. .o 37(John Carney kick) · . . Penalty 0 ·. 062' 51 W. Lampley I 0 0 0Drive: 86 yards in 11 plays in 3:20 Rushing Attempts 238 222 · Pass Receiving No. '\nrds TD_Long. . following Army punt Yards Rushing·. · · · 42. .. 15'' Benny White 2 '45. 0 37 .. 
Second Quarter ' · . . Yaros Lost Rushing 196 207 . William Lampley ·.I 22 : 0 22'AR-William Lampley 4 run 6:3,7. 14 7 Net Yards Rushing . 0 ·17Rob Dickerson· .1 17·(Craig Stopa kick)· · . . . ·Net Yards P:issing 98 186 1 . 14' 0. 14. 
Drive:'41_yards iii 2 play~ iil :25 Passes Attempted· 10 20 Sc~tt. s.pellm?n . 
Notre Dame ·' · following Notic Dame punt.· : · . Passes Completed ' 5' 12. 

-Rushing . Att •. Gain Lost · Net TD LOng · Third.Quartcr . Had Intercepted ' 0 0 . ·n· ·.11. Allen Pinkett 27 141 · ·8 133 ·. · 1 22AR-CraigStopa 22 FG · . . 7:41 14 ·10 · ..Total Offensive Plays· H. ~rancisco 8 37 · 0 · 37 · 0 9' . 294 .393'
Drive: 53 y-.uds in 13 playsin 6: 15. .1btal Net Yards · ...· :-4;1 '' 5.5 .: FrankStains. 4 :15 _·-o .15 o 8following Notre Dame puttt. · · · Average Gain Per ,Play ·:3-'1:,~) ... · 1-0 Steve ·Bcuerlein . 4 16 · 6 16 0 9 ... ND-AIIcn Pinkett 1 run : . i:26 21 .. 10 : Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-11 4~24. · ·;Tom Monahan 6· 9 1 . • .· ~ · . :. 0 · -· 4 ·.
· (John.Carney kick) . Penalties: Number...;..Yards: · o-o· ··o.o PernellTaylor · 2 . . 4 · 0 · · A l 3Drive: 82yards in 14 playsin 6:15 · · · ·'Interceptioils: Number:.:.;_Yards 4-132 5-207 Pnssing . · · Att.Comp•. Int. Thnis : TD 'Long following Army kickoff;, · Number, of Punts~Yards· ' 33.0 41.4 Steve Beuerlein · . : 20 12 · ·. 0 186 _1 · 39.
Fourth Quarter · · · · · . . Average Per Punt . . . . 
3-12 ... · 1-0. · Pnss Receiving ·· No. Thrds . TD Long. ND~John Cainey,21 _FG. · ·. . :·. · . 6:23 24 JO .. Punt_Rctuins: N,umb_er-:-:-Yards_ 1-49 .. ' ' 2-34' · Alvin Miller' 3 .74 0 -:.39
·_ ·· ·Drive: 47 yards in 10 plays in 4:31 . . Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 7~1~. ' . 7~14 Reggie Ward • · 2 ' 37 · .0 19 ,.. following Army loss of ball ()n downs. Third Down Conversion*. 
_Tim Brown· · · 2 29 1 19
A-59~075(c) · · .. " · 

·Thm Rehder: · .. 2 21 · ·o · :16: Andy Heck · . , 1 · · 12 o~ :.. 12­Fr.mk Starns 1. ,7. · o · :i. 
'._·.' 

. .· Allen Pinkett -· , -· l ·• ·: 6 . 0 ; : 6 
25 

. \ ~-. . ~ . --­
i l 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I 
1 
I 
! I 
I 
l !) 
lltl 
II 
1l 
II 
1 
l· 
!I I 
usc 



Turning the Trojans Green 

By JOHN HEISLER 
Here's your trivia question for the day: 
Which two opponents did Gerry Faust's 
Notre Dame teams defeat in each of his last 
three seasons as Notre Dame head coach? 
If you voted for Navy, you answered the 
easier half of the daily double. And that one 
should have come as no surprise. After all, 
Notre Dame now has beaten Navy 22 straight 
times. Faust, Dan Devine and Ara Par­
seghian never once lost to the Mids. In fact, 
no Navy team has beaten the Irish since 
Roger Staubach played quarterback in 1963. 
The other team to lose to Notre Dame in 
'83, '84 and '85 was none other than USC. 
Surprised? You should be. Three straight 
victories over the Trojans is something 
neither Parseghian nor Devine managed-in 
fact, those two combined to defeat USC only 
four total times in 17 attempts. The last Irish 
coach to win that many consecutive times 
over the Trojans was Joe Kuharich, who won 
in his first three years as Irish coach between 
1959 and '61. 
Faust's last three teams didn't just defeat USC-they thoroughly dominated them. In those three games against Notre Dame, USC managed a combined total of only 16 points on two touchdowns and a field goal. The Irish forced 14 Trojan turnovers, while committing just four themselves. 
The '85 Notre Dame triumph? Well, it just happened to produce the widest victory margin of the season for the Irish as well as. the best defensive performance of the campaign. 
Criti~s might argue that these USC teams of the past three years haven't been any more awesome than Notre Dame's (each school produced 19 combined victories over that period)-though the Trojans did just happen to go 9-3 in '84 on their way to the Rose Bowl. 
In any event, it was impossible to ignore the manner in which Notre Dame knocked off USC this time-from the shocking hit Irish rookie George Streeter put on returner Randy Tanner on the opening kickoff to the impressive 64-yard touchdown drive pulled together by Terry Andrysiak and his number­two offense in the closing minutes. In between, the Irish did everything necessary to pin a 37-3 defeat on the visitors from Southern California-in a victory that appreciated in value considering the Trojans had scored 93 combined points of their own the previous two· Saturdays. 
In a series replete with history and tradition, both sides trotted out their own motivational touches. 


26 


The Trojans brought along fonner coach John McKay, who lost to the Irish only once in the last nine games he coached against them. He addressed the USC squad just prior to kickoff. 
The Irish brought alohg their green jerseys, just in case-borrowing a story line from Dan Devine, who first made use of them in '77 in a key victory over USC from that national title season, and from Faust himself, who utilized them in '83, six years to the day after that '77 meeting. 
This time Notre Dame didn't try the wearin' of the green until halftime, and it made little difference since the Irish already were ahead 27-0 by that time. 
What really set the tone for the day's proceedings was Streeter's tackle just seconds after John Carney's opening kickoff landed five yards past the goal line in the arms of Tanner. The USC sophomore disdained the touchback before he literally ran into Streeter at the 12-yard line. Streeter's helmet knocked the ball back to the two, Troy Wilson recovered-and Allen Pinkett swept over the left side for a 7-0 lead just 10 seconds and a single play into the contest. Tanner's season was finished-with surgery scheduled the following day to mend a torn knee tendon suffered on the play. 
"There was more to it than fumbling the 

kickoff," said USC cornerback Matt 
Johnson. "Good teams don't let that kind of 
thing distract them ... but maybe we're not 
a goo_d team right now." 
USC coach Ted Tollner had his own view: 

"He never should have run it out. We practice that situation every day. That set the stage for the whole game. You try to get prepared for things to go wrong in the opening kickoff situation. If something bad happens, you try to overcome it. We never did." 
Indeed they didn't. Notre Dame scored the first three times it had the football-and five of the first six times it had it-became the first team to ~core first-quarter points versus the Trojans all season and eventually became the first Notre Dame team to hold USC without a touchdown since 1966 (the 51-0 Irish win that clinched a national champion­ship). 
_Amazingly, USC ended up outgaining the 

Irish (346-335 in total yards), but the Trojan 
yardage seldom mattered much. It could have 
been a day to remember for senior quarter­
back Sean Salisbury, who broke Paul 
McDonald's career records for both pass 
completions and passing yardage during the 
game. Yet, the second-period drive on which 
Salisbury eclipsed the pass completion mark 
proved cruelly ironic. He completed three 
straight passes good for 51 total yards, only 
to see Don Shafer miss a 34-yard field goal 
after the march stalled at the Irish 17. That 
marked as' close as the Trojans would get to 
the Notre Dame goal line until the middle of 
the fourth period. 
The next two USC drives ended under · 

even more discouraging circumstances. Once 
from the Notre Dame 42 and again from the 
'j.{O 
Irish 45, the Trojans attempted to run for the necessary yardage on fourth down. First Robert Banks and then Cedric Figaro nailed Kennedy Pola and then Aaron Emanuel short of the 1 0-yard stripe. 
The visitors drove 42 yards to get a field goal on their first possession of the third period-but, as Tollner was quick to point out later, touchdowns and not field goals were the desired ingredients at that juncture. Two of the next three Trojan possessions collapsed due to lost fumbles to thwart whatever comeback hopes USC might have held. 
Notre Dame's offense ran efficiently early, late and often. 
Following Pinkett's one-play, one­touchdown drive, the Irish made effective use of sophomore fullback Frank Starns on possession number two. After gaining 15 yards on a screen pass, Starns rambled 23 yards (his longest gain of the season) on a third-and-four opportunity. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein scored the touchdown himself (the first rushing score of his career) on a play in which he took a wicked hit at the goal line. 
After Shafer's missed field goal, the home team went back to work. Though Pinkett carried on seven of the 12 plays during the next march, it was another noteworthy play by Beuerlein that set the tone. On third and four from his own 28, Beuerlein dropped back, started to run as the Trojan rush forced him out of the pocket-then stopped just short of the line of scrimmage for a quick toss to Tom Rehder. Though he was only a few yards away from Beuerlein when the pass was thrown, Rehder's reception fooled USC and he turned the play into a 28-yard gainer. 
USC's pair of strikeouts on fourth down followed-with Faust electing to give his backup offensive troops a shot midway through the second period. As had become the rule rather than the exception, he wasn't disappointed. Sophomore Terry Andrysiak quickly rolled out and hit rookie tight end Andy Heck for 23 yards-and Hiawatha Francisco zipped past a couple of would-be tacklers for 16 yards on the following play. Starns scored three plays later for a 24-0 lead-and it was obvious what sort of day it was slated to be for the Irish. 
A Pat Ballage interception set up another Carney field goal just prior to halftime-as Notre Dame put 20 of their 37 points on the scoreboard following Trojan turnovers. 
If USC had any plans for a second-half change of momentum, they didn't last long. The Trojans-needing desperately to throw a couple of sevens-got only three out of their first second-half attempt on offense. And when Fred Crutcher fumbled deep in his own territory on the next try (with Marv Spence recovering), the visitors' cause suffered a little more. 
The generally-dependable USC running attack accounted for only three rushing first downs all afternoon-and no USC back managed more than 50 yards. Salisbury's final passing numbers (21 of 34 for 191 yards) and those of backup Rodney Pete (four of seven for 53) certainly proved respectable-but the four turnovers (added to the two misses on fourth-down runs) thwarted the Trojans every time they were in a position to threaten. 
Toliner had little option but to ruefully face· the music: 
"I don't know what to say. We were whipped in every phase of the game. There are no excuses for losing like we did today. We worked hard during the week and we were mentally and physically ready to play. Notre Dame came out and pounded us with the run and made some plays with the pass and took us out of our game." 
Once the Irish had taken their 27-point halftime lead, the jersey caper marked one of the few second-half occurrences of note. And though the switch from blue to green seemed 


'!"• •• •{_. & -r \/& ".. ) J;r•''j-.~ ;, • • • ••••
~ -~ ~ 
-J 0 & _,. I ../ ' _ ..... ~ 0 • 0 • J 9 •. • " \0 


. -. ·. ·.... -"",..,._-. .. . . . . .. ,. .. ' . . -. ~ . ' , . .
'""­

anticlimactic and unnecessary, Faust was 
quick to point out the lack of wisdom in 
taking any win over the Trojans for granted. 
His players-though most were only 10 years 
old at the time-had been duly informed of 
the '74 game in which Anthony Davis' 
second-half scoring spree turned a 24-6 Irish 
halftime lead into a 55-24 Trojan success. 
Even Tollner didn't appear concerned about 
the green: 
"I think they had planned to wear the 

green jerseys no matter what the score was. 
We were responsible for our own embarrass­
ment. If we had taken care of our own 
program, we wouldn't have been behind 27-0 
at halftime." 
The mysterious part of watching the Irish 

rout involved whether this could actually be the same Notre Dame team that had passed . on opportunities to win at Michigan and had 
admittedly performed miserably a month 
earlier at Purdue. 
"We're making less mistakes," suggested 

Pinkett, who finished his career with 373 
rushing yards and five touchdowns versus the 
Trojans. "We're not turning the ball over like 
we did earlier in the year. People say our 
offense is predictable. Well, you're dam 
right, it's predictable. We want to go out and 
try to run the ball down a team's throat. It's 
simply a matter of our execution." 
"We have a more relaxed attitude," added 

guard Tim Scannell. "We're not uptight 
about anything right now. We're just playing 
football and not worrying about making 
mistakes." 
And that was enough to make all the 

difference. 

Scoring Summary Passing Att.Comp.: Int.fuds TD Long
0 0 3 ~3

First Period 1imeND sc usc' Sean Salisbury 34 21 I 191 ·o 21 

NO-Allen Pinkett 2 run . 14:50 7 0 Notre Dame 14 13 3 7-37 Rodney Peete 7 . 4 0 53· 0 31 (John C~rney kick) Kenn~dy Pola 1 :0 0 0 0 0 Drive: 2 yards in I play in :05 following Troy Wilson recovery of Team Statistics PaSs Reeei\·ing ·No. Yards · TD Long USC fumble on opening usc ND · Joe Cormier · 7 54 ·. 0 . 11 kickoff. · · First Downs 18 ·18 Hank Norman 4 65 0 21 
NO-Steve Beuerlein 6 run . 6:58-14 ·. 0 Rushing, 3 11 Gene Arrington · 3 17. 0 7 (John Carney kick) Passing 14 6 · Marion Washington · 2 38 0 31 Drive: 71 yards in 9 plays in 4:25 . · ' Penalty . . 1 · I · Martin Chesley 2 22 0 14 following USC punt. . · 
Rushing Attempts 34 49 Fred Crutcher · 2 22 0.' I3 Second Quarter .Yards Rushing I I 8 223 Kennedy Pola . 2. 7 . 0 4 NO-John Carney 26 FG .· 12:19 .17 0 . Yards Lost Rushing i6 '6 Erik McKee· . 1-11 0 11 Drive: 71 yards in 12 plays in 5:52 · · Net Yards Rushing . ·102 2I7 ·Aaron· Emanuel 1 4 0 4 
. 1 4 0 4 . following USC missed field goal. Net Yards Passing. 244 . 118 17 . Todd Steele 

NO-Frank Stams 5 run · 3:27 24 0 · P'.tsses Attempted : 42 Notre Dame. (John Carney kick) · . . . . : Passes Com.pleted 25 10 -·Rushing. . . AU. Gain .Lost ·. Net TD Long Drive: 55 yards in 7 plays in3:04 . · Had Intercepted · . I 1 Allen Pinkett · 28 113 . ':3 ·. 110 . 1.. 13 following USC loss of ball on dow~s. Total Offensive Plays · · 76 66· H.. Francisco· IO . 57 .0 . 57 . 0 16 
. . ND~John Carney 33 FG · ·. . • · · :35 27 0 · : Total Net Yards 346 335 ,: Frank Starns · 4 . 31 . ·. 0 .31 I . 23 .. 
Average Gain PerPiay · . 4.6 5.1 .. 4 14' . 0 . 14 .. 0 .. 7 .
· Drive: 0 yards in 3. plays in .1 :22 Tom Moniilian following Pat Bnllage interception 
Fumbles: Number-LOst ·4-3 · -1-0 Steve Beuerlcin 2 6. 3: ..3· I 6 ··Penalties: Number-Yards'; . ·4~35 5-60 . . 1 2 .. :' 0 .: '2 ' 0. . i
. . · · ..of usc pass.· .Tim Brown 
Third Quarter : · .. .Interceptions:. Number-Yards··· I-3 1-35 SC~Don Shafer 39 FG 9:53. 27 3 
· >Numb~r of Punts~Yards . 3-88 '4-172. Passing ·· ·Att.Comp. Int. Thrds' · TD Long ··· · Drive: 42 yards in 8 plays in 3:31. Average Per Purit . . 29.3 43.0 Steve Beuerlein·· · · 14 . 7 · 1 82 0 · 28 following _Notre Dame punt. · Punt Returns:.Number~Yards. · :·1-4 . · 0·0 .. Terry Andrysiak. · · 3 . · 3 · 0 36. · ·1 23 · 
NO'-John Carney 43 FG ... 
2:27 30 .. 3 Kickoff RetUrns: Number..:..Yards· 2-16 .. 2-43 . Drive: 12 yards in'7 plays in3:53 . Third-Down Conversions': .. 6-18 5-14 PassRecei~ing -: ·· .. No. 'Thrds TD Long 
: . 2 ."37' . 0 28

Tom· Rehder ' · Andy Heck . ~ : · · I · 23 . 0 . 23 . 
..• following:MarV Spence recover}' 

of USC fumble;· · · · ; . 
. · lndi~idunl Statistics FrankStarns :.. ~I · 15 0 · ISFourth Quarter. · . , .. 
· · · usc . . . Reggie Ward 1 'I4 . 0 .14 .•
ND-Jael Williams~ 8 pass·· 

. ·from Terry Andrysiak ; Rushing Att. Gilin Lost Net TD Long · .. :Alvin Miiier: .I 12 ·.<0 12 · (John Carney kick)· ·· . . · Fred Crutcher is ·s4 ·. 4 ·so <o: II Mark Green I 8 0 8 ·Dri~e: ·64 yards _in 9. plays in._4:26 :Aarori Emanuel 13. 48 · 0 48 · :0 · · ·. 9 · Joel Williams · .. I 8.. 't ·..S ·following USC punt. • · · ·. Kenriedy Pola .. 3 ' 8. 0 '.., 8 .0 . 6 .· :~_H. Francisco. ,: I 5 .Q 5 
A~S9,07S(c) . . .. ,. .Sean Salisbury '3 8 12 -4 . 0 · 6 Allen Pinkett · ·. I -4 0 ~ 



Navy 


A New Debate for Irish Fans 
By CHUCK FREEBY 

The continuing saga of the 1985 Notre Dame football team added yet another chapter. 
A season already filled with ups and downs, green jerseys and black rumors, thickened its plot with a quarterback controversy as Notre Dame sunk Navy's hopes of an upset with a 41-17 triumph at 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
During the week of practice before the game, reserve quarterback Terry Andrysiak ran the club, while starter Steve Beuerlein 
·,. 
,I
'.·1~.~.
.; ;.
'• 
nursed a bruised shoulder he suffered in the USC game the previous Saturday. By Friday, however, Beuerlein was pronounced ready to play, and Irish coach Gerry Faust decided to go with the veteran. 
"I called both of the quarterbacks into my office separately on Friday and told them the situation," explained Faust. "We wanted Beuerlein in for the first few series to see if Navy changed anything. He's got a lot of defensive checks and Steve's got about 27 starts. We wanted his experience in there." 
That would seem to settle the matter, right? 
Wrong. 
Beuerlein didn't remain in the lineup for long. Notre Dame committed two turnovers and punted on its first three possessions, while Navy posted a 7-0 lead on Napoleon McCallum's one-yard touchdown run. 
Exit Beuerlein, stage left. Enter Andry­siak, stage right. 
'~11 the guys on the first offense were looking for an answer," noted Andrysiak. "When I came in they wen~ really hepped up trying to make it work." 


; ' •. ~ . ~ '. -..• ' ' ' ---. . -. . -' ' . ' " . 
' . . . . • • .~..! . . . 


Three second-half fumbles by Napoleon McCallum did little to help the Midshipman cause. 
They did just that, with Andrysiak leading the way. All the sophomore signalcaller did was complete 11 of 17 passes-for 195 yards, guide the Irish to touchdowns on five of his eight possessions~ and lead Notre Dame to its greatest offensive output (544 yards) in Faust's five years. 
· "Things worked with him in there," understated offensive captain Tim Scannell. "We weren't doing anything up to that point. When he came in, he served as the catalyst, he got things going. I can't say enough about the job he did." 
Andrysiak probably wishes Scannell would have kept talking, though, as his performance was not enough to wrest the starting job from Beuerlein in Faust's opinion. 
"Steve Beuerlein is our _starting quarter­back," said Faust after the game. "It's probably coincidence that our offense got started when it did. Don't take anything away from Terry. He threw well, ran well, ran the club well. He did a super job." 
Tailback Allen Pinkett, who did his own super job of rushing for a season-high 161 
yards and three touchdowns, agreed with Faust's assessment of the situation. 
"I think he was in the right place at the right time. Our offense just woke up. We knew if we let Navy keep building its confidence, it would be a long evening. But I think our offense would have done the same even if Beuerlein would have stayed in." 
There was no question that Andrysiak did exceptionally well. Beuerlein's absence from the practice field necessitated some changes in the Notre Dame gameplan, and Andrysiak took advantage of those alterations. 
"We planned " roll-out type of offense," noted Faust. "We couldn't wait until Thursday to see if Beuerlein would be okay." 
"Basically you saw more roll-outs today, more bootlegs and more naked bootlegs where Terry has no protection," added Scannell. "Terry has good feet and good athletic ability. Those kinds of plays are his forte and he took advantage of them" 
In fact, Andrysiak rolled out on nearly every pass he threw, as he sprinted left and right to find open receivers all afternoon. On his first drive, he completed three passes, including a nine-yard aerial to Mark Green at the Navy 35. From that point, the rushing attack took over the next five plays, with Pinkett capping the drive on a two-yard touchdown run to tie the game at 7-7. 
The stage was ·now set for the turning point of the ball game. However, this play would not involve Andrysiak, but another reserve, cornerback Marv Spence. Facing a fourth­and-four situation on the Irish 42, Navy coach Gary Tranquill decided to take an 

.early gamble and go for the first down. "I thought we were going to make it," said Tranquill. 
"Before the play started I didn't feel they would make it," dissented Irish linebacker Tony Furjanic. "I was surprised they went for it, espe_cially after we shut down USC a couple of times on fourth down early in the game." 
Furjanic proved to be right this time. Navy quarterback Bill Byrne rolled left, firing for McCallum in the flat. Spence came over quickly, though, knocking the ball-and the 
. . 
Navy momentum-away. 
The Irish wasted little time cashing in on the opportunity. First, Andrysiak hit Tim Brown on a 13-yard gain to the Navy 45. Then, the speedy Green took a reverse down the right sideline, picked up a great block from Reggie Ward, and brought the ball to the Middie five. Three plays later, Pinkett did a classic swan dive into the end zone from the one, and the Irish took a 13-7 lead. 

Navy answered on its next possession with a field goal to narrow the margin to 13-10, but the Irish responded just as quickly by using what was given them. The Navy defense had been spreading out to try and stop Andrysiak's sprints, leaving the middle vulnerable, and it was only a matter of time before Notre Dame broke off the big play. 
Andrysiak started the drive by tying a Notre Dame record with his lOth consecutive completion-a 16-yarder to Ward. Three plays later, Pinkett took advantage of the Navy weakness, smashing through the line like it was crepe paper on a 43-yard romp to the Middie four. Two plays later, fullback Frank Starns took the honors on a one-yard run and the Irish had a 20-10 halftime lead. 
While Andrysiak continued his show in the second half, the Irish defense tightened its grip on Navy's offense, especially McCal­lum. The All-American and Heisman Trophy candidate.had not fumbled in his team's first seven games, while averaging 112 yards per game. While he did gain 124 yards· against the Notre Dame defense, McCallum also fumbled three times in the last two quarters, and all three fumbles led to scores. 
., ' He ·(M.cCallum) · ·.tooksoine good hits·· out there an.d not many· backs. in .the nation could keep 
{rom fumbling. ·''. 
.~Eric ·Dorsey 
The reasons behind the fumbles depended upon to whom you talked. Irish defensive tackle Eric Dorsey felt the Notre Dame defense had a lot to do with McCallum's problems. 
"I have to give him credit; he's a great running back. But he took some good hits out there today, and not many backs in the nation could keep from fumbling." 
McCallum didn't quite see it that way, 
though, feeling he just had a bad day. 
"The hitting really had nothing to do with 
it," noted the Navy tailback. "The times I 
fumbled, I just lost control of the football. 
It's just one of those things I'm going to have 
to work on." 
Whatever the reason; Notre Dame was 
quick to use the charity provided, and it 
received more help from some shoddy Navy 
tackling. First, Pinkett broke six tackles on a 
29-yard run destined for the highlight film 
and the end zone midway through the third 
quarter. Then, early in the fourth quarter, 
Andrysiak connected with Brown, who 
eluded three tackles on a 48-yard touchdown 
play. Finally, the reserves came on, and 
Hiawatha Francisco broke two tackles on a ·15-yard burst for another score. Eleven missed tackles, 92 yards, and 21 points later, it was 41-10. 
Navy did manage to make the score a little more respectable, as Don Holl 's one-yard touchdown run provided the final scoring of the day. Still, it was not enough to keep the Middies from falling to 3-5 and dropping their 22nd consecutive decision to Notre Dame. 


f • < • • ..._ • ~ • • ·~ ' ' • I " •' : ::. < ~ • • _, ' J • • r • • ~ • _.. .-:', • ~ • ' • • • • :5> • • • 

o .. > ~ ' ' '_ oo_s.-• ~ _..... o ' • o • o • • -> > o o I o 0 I 

·~t the half, I thought we were in pretty good shape," said Tranquill. "It's always a shock to lose by that score. Every time we got something going, we turned it over. We couldn't come up with any big plays. We didn't tackle. That and turning the ball over are why we looked so bad." 
Meanwhile, on the other side of the field, Notre Dame celebrated its third straight win, and its fifth in a row at home. The Irish raised their record to 4-3 and lifted the spirits of Faust. 
"We're getting better each ~eek," said the 

Irish coach. "We played a good football team 
today. We got off to a slow start, but then we 
got on track. 
"Confidence is the thing with this team right now. The kids are believing in them­selves. This was a good win for them." 
Indeed, it was a convincing win for the Irish. Nevertheless, Notre :E>ame still couldn't manage to avoid turmoil, even in victory. The plot of this continuing drama had thickened with a quarterback controversy-a familiar twist to Irish fans. 
Debates have raged throughout Notre Dame football over who was the best signalcaller. In the '40s, it was Lujack or Bertelli. In the '60s, the decision was Hanratty or O'Brien. In the '70s, the argument was Lisch or Montana-and in the early '80s, Koegel, Kiel and Beuerlein all battled. 
·Now it's Beuerlein or Andrysiak. 
QB or not QB. For Gerry Faust, that is the 

One of Allen Pinkett's season-high 161 rushing yards produces one of his three touch­question. 
downs. 
Scoring Summary' NA-Dori Holl I run 1:5.7 41 17 Mike Smith 3 II 0 II 0 6 

. First Qu.arter . Time ND NA (Todd Solomon kick) Don Holl -2 7 0 7 . I 6 

NA.:_Napoleon McCallum I run 8:06 0 7 Drive: 66 yards in 9 plays in 3:09 · John McKenna I 7 0 7 0 7 (Todd Solomon kick) following Notre Dame loss of Vernon Wallace I · 0 3 · :-3 0 -3 Drive: 74yards in Splays in 3:14. 
ball on downs. Bill Byrne 2 · o 19 ....:.19 o -7­following John Carroll recovery of 
A~59,075(c) Passing · Att.Comp. Int. \ards · TD ·Long . . Noire Dame fumble. · · · · 
Bill Byrne 36 22 2 192 0 22 Second Quarter Navy 0 7-17 Bob Misch . 6 4 0 · 54 0 22
·' 7 . ' 3
ND-Allen Pinkett 2 run 13:04 7 . 7 

Pass Receiving . . No. \'ards .. TD ·Long · . (John Carney kick) Notre Dame 20 7 14-41 Napoleon McCallum 6 ·:. 30 · 0 · 7 · Drive: 70 yards in 9 plays in 3:19. Greg Schildmeyer 3 46 0 · 22 following Navy punt. Team Statistics John Sniffen 3 30 · 0 . 17 · ND-Allen Pinkett I run . 8:59 ':13 ·7 . Nayy ND John Berner 3 29 . · 0 14 
(John Carney kick fails) · First Downs 23 . 27. Mike Smith ·3 6 0 ·. 7 . · Drive: 58 yards in 5 plays in I :53 Rushing · 10 15 Ken Kn1iec 2 39 ·· 0 22· · · following Nary loss of ball Passing 12 .12 . 'Mike Ray 2 · 25 0 ·. 17 
ori downs. · ~ 

Penalty.· 1 0 Troy Saunders 2 14 . 0 .. 8 NA-Todd Solomon 42 FG . . 4:27 13 10 Rushing Attempts . 38 56 John Lobb r 19 .. 0 19. ··-·• Drive: 53 yards in 9 plays in 4;32 Yards Rushing I64 341 Don Holl 1.· 8 0 .. 8. 
··following Notre Daine kickoff. Yards Lost Rushing · 22 27 Notre Dame ND-Frank Starns I run . 2:11 · 20 10 Net Yards Rushing · 142 314 Rushing Att. Gah1 Lost. Net TD Long . ~ (JohnCainey kick) .· . . . . Net Yards Passing 246 230 Allen Pinkett. 27. 168 7 161. · 3 , 43 .' · · . ·Drive: 75 yards in 6 plays in 2:16 Passes Attempted 42 · 23 Mark Green 2 52 , 0 · :52 0 40 
following Navy kickoff.. Passes Completed 26 14 H. Francisco 5 34 0 : 34. I ·.15 .Third·Quarter · ' · · 
Had Intercepted ·· 2 . 1 Tom Monahan ·. . 4 . 21 0 21 . o· · 11 · . 
ND.,..,.Alleri Pinkett 29 run 11:41. 27 lO. Total Offensive Pla)rs 80 · 79 Fmnk Starns 5 .'18 0 18 · .I · 9 (John Carney kick) Total Net Yards . 388 · ·544 · Terry Andrysiak 4 30 14 16 0 18 Drive: 46 yards In 2 plays in :24 · Average Gain Per Play_ · 4.9 6.9 Corny Southall . ,_2 8 0 8 0 8 follo\ving Pat Ballage recovery : Fumbles: Numbers-:-Lost 6-4 2-2 Ray ·carter·: 4. 6 ·. 1 : 5 0 3 of Navy fumble; · · Penalties: Number-Yards 1~5' 6-32 :Pernell Taylor 2 .. 4 . o· '4 . 0 · ·4 Fourth Qua'rter · .. Interceptions: Nu01bcr:--Yards 1-1 2-13 ·.. Steve Beuerlein · 1 0 .·. 5 .~5 .· :· 0 ....:.5 ND-1im Brown 48 pass 13:17 34. 10 NumberofPunts-Yards · 3~Ill 4-130 · .. Passing Att.Comp. Int.Thrds · -TD Long ·. from Terry Andrysiak Average Per Punt .. . 37.0. · 32.5 .Terry An~rysiak . 17 II 0 195 · I · 48 · -.Drive: 76 yaids in 9 plays in 3:46 · Punt Returns: Number-Yards· 3-16 3-17 . Steve Bcucrlein 6 3 I'. 35. : 0 3 following Marv Spence recovery ·Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards · 4-99 . 2-43 · P..tsS Receiving; No. \nrds TD Long ' ofNaryfumble. . · · . · Third-Down Conversions · . 2•10· 6-I2 . Tini·Brown. ,. · 5 . Ill .1 · · 46 
· ND....;.HiaW..tha Francisco.l5 run: 7:37 '41 ·w . · · · · IndiYidual Statistics·. Reggie _Ward : . . 3 · 48 .· 0. ·'17 : . · ·;(iohn Carney kick) . .. . .. · . . . .. . . Navy ·. Tony Eason . · . · . 2 . 27 . . . 0 · J9.. ·..' . •;·: Drive: 38 yards in 6 plays in ·1 :50 . · Rwhing. .Att. Gain Lost ·Net TD.Long Thm Rehder · .2 . 21 '0 12. 
. . . . foHoWing Steve Lawrence recovery · N: McCallum . · ·i4 .124 . :o 124 · l. · I4 ·.Alvin Miller· ' .. 1 . 14 . · .0 · ·14· ·< .ofNavy fumble. , · -·John.B,emer. ,5···.15 .'_o·:J5 o·.\~5.· ~1arkGreen< L._·.~.. g'·:.'.o\:A:· 
,·: ~ ~ . t ' 
~-------­

1 • • ~----"---------.,_ ­

I 
il 
I! Ole Miss 
II 
Two QBs Too Many for Rebels 
[i 
tl 
'I 
lj
II 
1.1 By KAREN CROAKE t: 
Gerry Faust always has been good at 

!:j 
juggling.

I' 
tl 
r: Once, on a dare from his college buddies, I• he took two girls to the same dance without 
i il 
il either finding out about the other. The dance ll hall was big and crowded. He stationed one I girl on each side of the room and navigated
il 
~ back and forth, splitting his time evenly withii both young ladies. Surprisingly enough, and ii to the astonishment of his friends, Faust's I, -~ plan worked beautifully. But his guilty
I! 
conscience finally got the best of him. With

:1 t! the money he won from his pals, he bought 
i\ 
:I each girl a dozen roses and 'fessed up.
il 
Now, years later, Faust was faced with a

!I 
f; 
l similar task. He brought two quarterbacks to H the same game and wanted to give each an 
! -~ 
i' ample opportunity to play. Could he do that 
I 
without disrupting his team's offensive ! 
consistency and momentum? Could he do it L without hurting somebody's ego and morale? ij Again, Faust's balancing act succeeded. 
I, il With sophomore Terry Andrysiak and senior 
ll 
Steve Beuerlein calling the signals, the Irish 

:I cruised to a 37-14 drubbing of Mississippi in Notre Dame Stadium. The only ones who suffered were the hapless Rebels, who couldn't find the end zone until less than eight minutes remained in the contest.
I "Both Terry and Steve worked very hard in practice," said Faust, who had refused to
! 
name a starter to the press before gametime. 
"We talked to both of them this week, and 
we agreed it's a healthy situation for the team 
to be in with two quarterbacks."

I Andrysiak, who started the first game of his college career, engineered two touchdown drives and completed four of eight passes for 60 yards. 
Beuerlein, who started the previous week against Navy but played sparingly because of a shoulder injury suffered against USC, led the Irish to a pair of touchdowns in the first half and completed five of eight passes for the exact same number of yards. 
"I didn't realize the work load broke down so evenly," said Faust, whose team won its fourth in a row overall and sixth straight at home. "I made the decision to start Andry­siak because he played such a good football game last week. If a kid performs well, really above what you expect him to do, the kid should have the opportunity to play. 
"I didn't want to go the route of bringing Terry off the bench. That would have been wrong for Steve. But they both did pretty well, didn't they?" 
Although the dueling quarterbacks attracted most of the attention, Notre Dame's 
34 
.. 
' ... ~ . .. ·, .. "' :. -,,. ·.· . 


~\~f£t;?li~~[,,,,,~ttt~~1 
·-··~ .,·.· ~·~~: 

Terry Andrysiak's first career start prompts a sideline discussion. An ominous-looking Eric Dorsey strikes a bit of fear in the heart of Ole Miss freshman Chris Osgood, who took his first collegiate 

snap from center against Notre Dame. 
defense played just as important a role in the lopsided victory. 
Free safety Steve Lawrence set up two key Irish touchdowns with a second-quarter interception return and a third-quarter fumble return. 
"I was just a small part in a big win," said Lawrence. "We knew we were good enough, but we couldn't do it if we didn't pull together." 
After a lackluster first quarter-the first three Irish possessions netted just 27 yards, plus a 41-yard field goal by John Carney­Notre Dame needed Lawrence's heroics. 
One minute into the second period, Lawrence grabbed freshman quarterback Mark Young's errant pass at the Irish 25-yard line and returned it 27 yards to the Missis­sippi 48. 
Faust then inserted Beuerlein in place of Andrysiak, who had gotten off to a slow start. 
"I was a little shaky and confused at the beginning," admitted Andrysiak. "IfI played well I probably would have stayed in longer, but I knew Steve would play, too." · 
Beuerlein had made no bones about wanting his starting job back, and on this series h~ proved he meant business. After tailback Allen Pinkett had gained nearly half of his day's total with 30 yards on three carries to help move Notre Dame to the 10­yard line, Beuerlein displayed his savvy and guts. On fourth and two, he rolled out and flipped to fullback Frank Starns for seven 
' ' This game really 

· had me worried. We really w.eren't sure what. kind-of offense Mississippi would have, and I was afraid we might. be looking 
· ahead to Penn State. _We were lucky .to get so far in front so early. That certainly ·helped. We stuck to our game plan and did pretty much what . we wanted to 

:·do. '' 
Gerry·Faust 


yards. Two plays later, Pinkett somersaulted into the end zone. Carney added the PAT to give the Irish a 10-0 lead. 
Beuerlein continued to impress his critics on the next Notre Dame possession. He completed three big passes for 44 yards, capping the 73-yard drive with passes of 16 and 14 yards, respectively, to flanker Tim Brown. Another Carney extra point put the Irish ahead, 17-0, at halftime. 
Of Ole Miss' seven first-half possessions, five ended with punts, another with an interception and the last orie far from the goal line as time expired. 
Most of the customary sellout crowd of 59,075 knew the rout was on. Because of the damp, driving rain, many departed for drier and warmer hideaways by the third quarter. 
Since his team had managed just three first downs and 55 yards total offense in the first half, Rebels' coach Billy Brewer tried switching quarterbacks. But his exchange wasn't as nearly as smooth and successful as Faust's. Young, who opened in place of injured senior standout Kent Austin, completed .only two of six-passe_s, and one of those was to himself. After outside line­backer Cedric Figaro deflected his pass, Young grabbed the ball but was dropped for a 14-yard loss by linebacker Mike Kovaleski. 
"It was pretty frustrating," said Young. 

His replacement, rookie Chris Osgood, didn't find the going much easier. 
"We told our defense we had to shut Mississippi's offense down," said Faust. 
.j 
·I 
Mississippi had a chance to get into the game when the Rebels recovered Pinkett's fumble on the Irish 27. But Ole Miss gave the ball right back. Nathan Woosley fumbled into the arms of Lawrence, who raced 79 yards to the Rebels' five-yard line. Only a tackle by flanker Andree Rodgers kept him out of the end zone. 
"I ran out of gas;' explained Lawrence. "I saw this guy coming, but I tried to stiff-arm him. I was too tired to make a move. I'll leave that to the offense." 
"I told him if he had been in better shape, he would have scored," said Faust. 

Three plays later, Pinkett scored his second touchdown of the day. That score-the 52nd touchdown of his career-left him just seven shy of Tony Dorsett's and Glenn Davis' NCAA career mark of 59. 
"Getting the career touchdown record is a goal that's in sight for me," said Pinkett, who gained 63 yards on 14 carries before leaving the game midway through the third quarter. "But I would like to have that happen with us winning our last three games. I feel it will take a team effort to do that." 
Notre Dame continued its offensive blitzkrieg. And Andrysiak maintained his race with Beuerlein by throwing his only 
. ·' ''l-Ie. (~orsey) is 
. ·one ofthe.bestdamn gu~s we've ·seen. ·.,' · · · -Billy Brewer 


touchdown pass of the day on Notre Dame's next series. On first down from the Missis­sippi 22, Andrysiak located a wide-open Tom Rehder at the 16. Rehder rambled down the left sideline and bulldozed his way into the end zone for the score. Carney's kick gave the Irish a 31-0 lead. 
"Notre Dame is a very talented football team," said Brewer, whose team fell to 3-5-1. "We were just outmanned in every position, I guess." 
Faust called off the horses and began substituting freely. Fifty-three players saw action for the Irish-29 on offense and 24 on defense. 

Mississippi finally avoided the whitewash by touching the second-stringers for a pair of touchdowns in the final 15 minutes. Os­good's 10-yard scoring pass to split end Ricky Meyers snapped two dubious streaks for the Rebels . 
They had not scored in 11 previous televised quarters and had gone since the third period of the 35-7 rout of Vanderbilt two games previous without a point. 

Osgood, who took the first snap of his college career late in the first half, also directed another scoring drive on the Rebels' next possession. Tailback Chuck Cleveland scored from the one-yard line, and Bryan Owen's kick accounted for Ole Miss' 14th point. 
Osgood finished the day with seven completions in 13 attempts for 79 yards. He also scrambled for 13 yards on eight carries. 
"Osgood was better than Young," said Irish defensive tackle Eric Dorsey. "His mobility was a lot better. He scrambled a lot better than the first guy." 
Mississippi was more impressed with Dorsey, who made six tackles, including two for losses, and harassed Rebel quarterbacks and ballcarriers all afternoon. 
"He's one of the best damn guys we've 


A 22-yard scoring catch by Tom Rehder (90) prompts an official's call by Tim Brown (81) and further celebration by Alvin Miller (17). Rehder's touchdown gave the Irish a commanding 31-.0 advantage. · 
36 seen," said Brewer. 



Notre Dame's third-team offense wrapped up the scoring for the Irish late in the fourth quarter. After Wes Pritchett recovered a Rebel fumble on a muffed punt return at the Mississippi eight, tailback Corny Southall ran eight yards for the last Notre Dame touchdown. Hal Von Wyl missed the extra point to account for the final 37-14 tally. 
"This game really had me worried," said Faust. "We really weren't sure what kind of offense Mississippi would have, and I was afraid we might be looking ahead to Penn Sate. But the young men played well. We were lucky to get so far in front so early. That certainly helped. We stuck to our game plan and did pretty much what we wanted to do." 
Despite Notre Dame's domination on the scoreboard, the statistics were a bit closer~ The Irish accumulated 283 yards total offense (163 rushing, 120 passing) to 221 (128 rushing, 93 passing) for the Rebels. In fact, Ole Miss ran four more plays (69 to 65). 
"I don't think we played that poorly," said Brewer. ''At times, we performed well in spurts. We're a football team that the good bounce, the good luck, is hard to come by." 
So after a successful four-game homestand that saw the Irish outscore their opponents 140-44, Notre Dame must take its game of rotating quarterbacks on the road to number­one-ranked Penn State. Will Faust be able to maintain his juggling act? 
"I like where we are," he said. "We're 

getting better and we're developing depth. 
We're in a pretty good position." 
Junior Steve Beuerlein came off the bench to throw for a touchdown and match Terry 
Will the Nittany Lions tip the seesaw? 

Andrysiak's 60 passing yards amidst the raindrops. 
. . . Sc~ring. Su.mmary · Passing Att.Comp. · Int. Yards . TD Long
Ole Miss 0. 0 0. 14...:...14 ' 13 7 . 0 79 . 1 27
.. First Quarter . : · : . ·' . . · .· . · · .··Time ·ND ·: UM Chris Osgood 
David McKinney 5· 2 .o·19.·o ·11_
'ND~John Carney 41 FG. · .. : : 11:44 · 3 0 ·Notre Dame 3 14 . 14 -· 6..:...37 .' . Drive: I yard iri 3: plays in :55·· .M!lrk Yourig · 6 2 I ·.-5 . 0 9 · . . following Ole Miss punt. 
Pass Receiving -No.fuds TD Long
" Second Quarter ...·. . . Team Statistics · 
Shawn Sykes . 5 42 0 19 
· ~ ND..:....Allen Pinkett 1 run . . _. . 9:38 10 · 0 ..·· UM ND · Ricky Myers · · 3 48 I 27 .(JohnCarneykick) ~ • · · . . 15
First Downs '14 ·. Mario Perry · 1 .. 9 0 9· 
. Drive: .48 yards in 10 plays in : · Rushing 7 8 . 
Chuck Cleveland I 8 · 0 8
4:16 following Steve Lawrence · "Passing·· ·. 4 '1 I·. ~14
Mark Young 0 -14 . 
·:' · .. : interception of Ole ~iss pass. . · Penalty · · 3. · 0 
·: ND.:.:..1im Brown 14 pass· · ·• · · Rushing Attempts 45 · · 48 Notre Dame 
frorn· Steve Bucrleiri• · · ··: 1:24 J7 . · 0 

YardsRushing . 178 • 189 . Rushing Att. Gain Lost _Net TD Long 
..(John Carneykick)· · · .. · · · • · 

Yards Lost Rushing __ 50 .. 26 Allen Pinkett · · 14 63 0 63 2 15 Drive: 73 yards in -12 plays in Net Yards Rushing 128 · 163-H. Francisco 12 48 · 5 43 0 13
4:50 followmg Ole Miss punt. 

Net Yards Passing ·93 · 120 Tom Monahan 5 18 0 ·18 0 · 5
• Third Quarter . . . · 
Passes Attempted ·24 17 Pernell Taylor · -1 18 0 · ·18 0 18 
:ND..:...AIIen Pinkett 2 run ·.. . 8:53 . 24 0 Passes Completed . · 11 · · 
· .9 .··.· Corey Southall 4 :· 16 0 16 · I ·7
.·: :(John Carney kick) ; · • ·.· · · . · Had Intercepted •1 · · 0
. ·· · Frank Starns · :5 · 7 I 6 · 0 4 
.~ ·Drive: 5 yards in 3 plays in 1:24 

·Total Offensive Plays 69 65 . Mark Green I ·5 0 5 · 0 5 
; following Steve Lawrenc_e recov-. Total Net Yards · 221 
283 · Ray Carter I : 3 · • 0 · 3 0 3 
. . . · cry of Ole Miss· fumble, · 

.. Average Gain Per Play · · · 3.2 · 4.4 · · Ste~e Beuerlein · 1 2 . 0 2 : . 0 · 2 · · · ND~Tom·· Rehder 22 pass··· · .fumbles: Number-Lost· .· 3-1 3~2. · . Terry Andrysiak · .. 2 · 9 · 13 -4 '. 0 · 9 . from Terry'AndrysialC · , . . 3:36 31 0 Penillties:·Number...:.Yards . 3-20 7-70 . · .Thm Byrne · 2. 0 . 7 . -7 · 0 · ··-3 
' (John Carney kick) . · . · ·. •: . :Interceptions: Number-: Yards_ ·. 0·0 1~7 . 
· 'Drive: 57 yards in 6 plays in 2:3.1 Number of Punts..:...Yards ·· · 8-355 6-219. ·.Passing · Att.Comp. Int. Thrds. TD Long · followi"-g Ole Miss Joss of ball on · ·. -Average Per Punt ·•· . · · · · . · 44.3 . -36.5 Terry Andrysiak' · · ·: 8 . ·. · 4 0 · .. 60 I · 22 downs·.. ·.:·•.·. ..· .. 5-66 ·. Steve Beuerlein 8 · 5 0 · ·: 60 • · I ·· 16
Punt Returns: Number~Yards ·3-33 · Fourth Quarter . . . ,. · .. Kickoff Returns: Nuinbcr-Yards .· 3-81 · ·. 1-7 · Tom Byrne I 0 0 ·o 0 ·. : 0 · UM.,-Ricky·Myers'IOpass . Third DoWn Conversions --4~15 · . .' 6-14 . Pass Receh·irig 
No. \'ilrds TD Long
•· frorn Chris OsgOod · · 

·nm Brown ·. · . 3· 41 ; )_. 14. 

, (Bryan Owen kick) . . 

·Tom Rehder ·. 2 · 29 · I . 22
Drive: 57 .yards in 8 plays in 2:21 
1·· 20 . 0 20'.

folloWing Notre Dame punt. . · · ·: IndividuruStatistic5 <Alvin Miller · Ole Miss .. _•. . .. Reggie W:ird I 14 .. 0 14 
·. uM..:...chuck Cleveland 1 run . ~ . . 2:34 31 14 
I 9 0 9 

. (Bryan Owen kick)· · ·..: . · · . :· Rushing Att.· Gain Lost' Net· TD Long :· ·Tony Eason 
.1 7 0 ·.7

· 6 ·· 34 0 '34 0 19 Frank Starns ..
:; · :·Drive:;'36 yards in (plays in 3:09_ ·. Nathan Wonslcf 
· <:followmg Notre Dame p~nt; . : ·. . · · · Chuck Cleveland .. K_ 28 .-:o · .· 28 r t4 · ND-7Corny.Southall 8 run . :· · ·: · :48 37 · 14 · . Joe Mickles · 9. 26 . . . 0. : 26 . 0 ..7 .,-.: ,' (Hal Von Wyl kick fails); . .•. · :·. .. . . Johriny Boatman ..· :_._<Drive: 8'yards in:Lplay in ·:04 · · · .. ·-· Chris Osgood . :r:·J~--~g. :~~\g-·:· :t· · · · following'. Wcs Pritchett r~c()very . · · :. ·: ; Mark Young ·~ .· 6.''· 25 : 14 . II . 0 ·· · 10. 
of Ole Miss fumble. . · , · · Shawn Sykes . ·: . 7 . . 23 . . 15 _· 8 . 0 . 8 .. : N59,'075(c) ·:~. ·· ·. . . .. · David McKinney .···t :.o 11·-11' ·o -II 
' • ' : _! .:, ; ; •••• ~-~ ~ :'. ' : ·, • : ••\ 

Penn State 





When It Rains, It Pours 

Mike Kiernan's muddied jersey epitomizes the frustrating afternoon for the Irish. 
By EDDIE WHITE 
What a difference a year makes. 
In 1984, Notre Dame played like a number-one team in rolling up 543 yards total offense, scoring on its first five possessions and controlling the clock for almost 40 minutes in a 44-7 thrashing of Penn State at Notre Dame Stadium. 
This season i~ was different. Boy, was it different. 
The undefeated and number-one-ranked Nittany Lions turned the tables, not to mention the scoreboard, on Notre Dame and handed the Irish a resounding 36-6 defeat before some 84,000 soaked fans at Beaver Stadium. · 
It was rainy (all through the day and game), cold (in the 30s) and windy. The weather was terrible. 
And Notre Dame's play wasn't much better. 
Notre Dame suffered six turnovers, including three interceptions, a blocked punt and a fumbled kickoff that set up five Penn State scores worth 19 points. It ws the worst Irish loss in 11 years (since a 55-24 drubbing by USC in 1974) and made Gerry Faust the losingest coach in Notre Dame history. _ Faust, with his worst loss with the Irish, now owne'd a 30-24-1 career slate. Joe Kuharich previously held the embarrassing distinction with 23 losses. 
"We really killed ourselves," said Irish tailback Allen Pinkett, who prior to 1985 had had three brilliant games versus Joe Paterno and· the Nittany Lions. 
"Murphy's Law had a bit to do with it," added Pinkett, who could gain only 61 yards on only 12 carries. In his three previous contests against Penn State, he totaled 476 yards and eight touchdowns rushing. 
·"When it rains, it pours," added Pinkett. 
·~nything that could go wrong, did go wrong." 
Notre Dame and Irish fans should have seen a warning of things to come from the pregame words of Paterno, who usually downplays his team and promotes that week's opponent as one of the best of all time. You know how it goes. 
"We're really not that good. But they are. They're great. We'll be lucky to be in the game with them." That's usually how Paterno sounds before a game. But not this time. Paterno, maybe remembering the previous year's loss, wanted this one. 
"I'm looking forward to. this game," said the veteran Lion coach during the week. "I like to be in these. situations. And I told the squad this is a game that they should be looking forward to; I told them that several weeks ago. Now, here we are. Let's go!" 
And go Penn State did. The Nittany Lions raised their record to 10-0 by scoring on eight of their first nine possessions. The key to the game was Penn State's defense and how it stopped the Irish, namely Pinkett. 

"We weren't so concerned (about Pinkett) as much as people probably thought we were," said Lion linebacker Rogers Alexan­der. "We more or less wanted to play solid defense, take care of our resoonsibilities and not give him the outside. • 
"I think we did a good job with that," added Alexander, who led Penn State with seven tackles. 
Safety Ray lsom, who didn't see much of Pinkett because the Irish senior only broke into the secondary· once, added, "He's a great running back and we knew we couldn't give him lanes. We really didn't practice on keying on him or anything. Once he got the ball, we were just going to go to the ball like we did all season and make him run east and west instead of north and south. 
"We were just going to bend and bend and not break. After awhile, we just tightened up and didn't bend at all." 
Really, the only time the Lions bent was on the game's first drive. 
Starting at their own 17, the Irish came out throwing. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who was six for six for 62 yards in the drive, led the Irish to the Nittany Lion 21-yard line where the march stalled. On fourth and two, the Irish elected to try a field goal. 
John Carney came in to attempt the 38­yarder but he never got a chance because holder Hal Von Wyl couldn't get the ball set 
up in the slippery, muddy field. Von Wyl 
picked up the bobbled ball, rolled right and 
attempted a wobbly pass toward tight· end 
Tom Rehder, but it was broken up by lsom. 
"We put ourselves into a hole early by not 

scoring on that first drive;• admitted 
Beuerlein. "They held us, got pumped up 
and went down and scored. We had to play 
catchup and they went out and made big 
plays. There's no way to know what would 
have happened if we'd scored. It might have · been a different story, but they stopped us 
with a big play and they got us frustrated." 
"Holding them to no points on the first 

drive was a major factor," said Isom. "They 
just took it to us on that first drive and 
moved the ball. When the field goal didn't 
work, it gave us momentum and confidence 
and we rode that." 
Following the Irish miscue, Penn State 

quarterback John Shaffer, who hadn't lost a 
game (53 straight) as a starter since seventh 
grade, directed the Lions in an 11-play, 79­
yard march that took 5: 11. The former 
Cincinnati Moeller High School product hit 
all four passes in the drive -the last a 21­
yardscoring toss to standout tailback D.J. 
Dozier. 
Massimo Manca, playing his first colle­

giate game in front of his mother who flew 
in from Italy, booted the conversion and the 
Lions were on their way. Manca didn't 
disappoint his mother as he went on to boot 
a school-record-tying five field goals. 
"I think a lot of what we did today can be 

contributed to determination and mental attitude," said Dozier, the game's top ground­gainer with 75 yards. "We just had guys saying that no matter how muddy it is, no matter how my footing is, I'm going to get the job done. And that's what we did." 
Notre Dame stopped Penn State on its next possession and then the Lions scored on eight straight drives (including the last four of the half). Field position was key for Penn State. The Lions got a 32-yard field goal from Manca after a drive started on the Irish 43-yard line; a 24-yard field goal set up after a Beuerlein interception gave the Lions a first down at. the 34; a two-yard touchdown run by Steve Smith on a drive that began at the Lions 35; and a 50-yard field goal from Manca with :03 left in the half after Tim Brown fumbled the kickoff at the 29. 
"Penn State caused some of our turn­overs," said Faust. "The weather didn't help, but we've won in conditions like that before. They were as close to a perfect football team as you can get. They made no turnovers themselves in deplorable, almost comic conditions. When you can do that in that kind of weather, then you're playing like number one." 
"I didn't mind playing in the rain and mud," said Alexander. "You get all dirty slipping and splashing around there. It was fun." 
Fun is apparently doing things right. 
"I think you would have to say this was our best all-around game," said Paterno, who would lead his team to a showdown with Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl. "I said I 

Steve Beuerlein's six straight completions to begin the game got the Notre Dame offense to a strong start. 
I 
,. I I 
thought this was going to be our best game in two or three years, based on our practices this week." Before a reporter could ask, Paterno added, "Revenge is not an accurate term." 

Despite being down 23-0 at the half, Faust and Co. were confident about an Irish comeback. "We felt we still had an opportu­nity because of the conditions," said Faust about the situation at halftime. "We knew anything could happen and I felt the team felt that way, too." 
The facts showed while Penn State had come from behind at the half to win six times in '85 alone, the Irish had only come from behind once in Faust's five years. 
Notre Dame's hopes for a comeback in the second half ended after only three minutes. The Irish took the kickoff and marched to midfield where Beuerlein threw his second interception-this one to Isom who returned it to Notre Dame's 32-yard line. "I was terrible and this game was miserable,'' commented Beuerlein, who set an unnoticed Notre Dame career record for pass comple­tions during the game."lt was the most frustrating game of the year so far." 
Shaffer, who completed seven of 16 passes for 126 yards, went up the middle for a one­yard score. Manca 's PAT boosted the Lions to a commanding 30-0 lead. By this time, more than half the crowd, which had sat in the steady rain, had gone home. 
"John Shaffer played a heckuva game,'' commented Faust. "He's a great kid. He's a winner. He comes through when it counts. I 
'.,. It's tough be­·cause. we were at a. pol11~ _where we could control o·ur· own· ·des•. :tiny ... ,, · ..... · · . 
· . · · ~ Allen'Pinkett 
don't think either one of our quarterbacks (Beuerlein and Terry Andrysiak) played well. Their's did and I think that was the differ­ence in the game. You gotta give John and Penn State the credit." 
Shaffer gave a little credit to Faust. "I feel bad for coach Faust,'' said the Penn State signalcaller. "If the world had more Gerry Fausts, it would be a better place for everyone. I think it would have been a big game for him if he won. Unfortunately for him and fortunately for us, it didn't work out." 
Penn State added two more field goals following Shaffer's score and Paterno graciously called off the dogs in the fourth quarter. It was something Irish fans wouldn't see happen in two weeks when Notre Dame visited Miami. 
"I think football is a great game because you have to beat the other guy, the elements and yourself,'' said Paterno, who has seen just about everything in college football. "I was not concerned about the weather as far as our team was concerned. I thought it would be a question of whichever team was 
able to concentrate and not get careless with 
the football." 
Notre Dame's only score came late in the game after a 52-yard drive engineered by Andrysiak. Following an incompletion at his own 48, Andrysiak hooked up with freshman Mark Green for a 12-yard gain. An Andry­siak scramble for 10 and a late-hit penalty on Penn State moved the ball to the 15. The sophomore quarterback then hit freshman tight end Andy Heck for a 13-yard gain. Junior tailback Hiawatha Francisco then sailed over from two yards out at the 3:32 mark. 
As if anything else could possibly go wrong, the PAT attempt was blocked and the Irish were saddled with the 36-6 loss. 
"Penn State deserves to be number one, no question," said Faust. "We just have to battle back. I'm a battler and this team likes to fight back. There's no quit in this team. We've got two tough games left (LSU and Miami) and we're going to have to play well if we want to have a good year." 
Tim Scannell, senior offensive lineman and prep All-America at State College High School whose dad is a vice president at Penn State, saw his personal mark against his hometown foes end at 1-3. "This Penn State team is a lot more confident than the one we beat last year," said Scannell. 'i\nd they didn't make any mistakes and that's the sign of a championship team. We let the condi­tions bother us. They didn't surprise us with anything new. They just went out and 


The goalline efforts at Steve Smith and Nittany Lion blockers accounted for Penn State's second touchdown. 
40 

executed. I don't know why we allowed the· weather to bother us but it did. This was as bad as it gets. But not worse than out at USC where we won last year. 
"We can still salvage a nice season. There is pressure, but you have to try and ignore it. That's the nature of the place. That's Notre Dame." 
Another part of Notre Dame's nature had been its tradition-rich past in meetings with teams ranked number one. The last six times the Irish had faced the number-one-ranked team, Notre Dame had come away victorious on four occasions-including its last attempt in '82 at the other end of the state at Pittsburgh (a 31-16 triumph). 
The form charts made Penn State appear to 

.. be a likely accomplice thanks to its '85 history of come-from-behind wins. But it wasn't to be for the Irish in the mud and the muck of Beaver Stadium. 
"It's tough because we were at a point where we could control our own destiny," noted Pinkett. "It's a shame we couldn't cash in." 
Credit the Nittany Lions for cashing their own chips instead. 
On a day when bowl pairings fell into place, it was the"Irish who found themselves bowled over -and the Nittany Lions who found themselves with the postseason representatives ':V3iting at their feet. 
Color Penn State orange, as in Orange Bowl-bound against the second-ranked Oklahoma Sooners. 
Color the Irish blue, as in downcast and disappointed. By the time this was over, Notre Dame's muddied uniforms effectively matched its spirit. 

The treacherous footing provided Allen Pinkett with little chance to match his consecu­tive four-touchdown performances against Penn State. 
·First ~~~e~· ;_: ~~orlng Su.min~Y. ~ Tiiue _PS. Nif . 0 · 0 · 0 --~ 6 · .. ~~n~e~erlein 
.·PS:-:'D;J.·Doziei-21 pass 7 16 ·13 . 0-36;__· · HI Vi WI -· 
. -~. from John Shaffer . . . · 4:38 
i ; 7, 0 .· ·. · · .. ·>TeaiTy~"nd&siak -·· ·5,.. 3:_.~-:. 0~ -~ .39 .'. 0 ·. ~ i4 ·.. :. (Massimo Manca kick) . ,. . . . .; _ ·· · · ··.· · · . ~ _Drive:79 yards 'in 11-plays in: .': --_·.· :Team StatisticS : . . · Pass Receiving :· ·'·.· 5:11 :following Notre· Dame-loss·.::·· · . · · · · · ND PS ·.·Tim Brown ·.'-. 
: s~~~~-~~a~e~~s. :·. -.: < ·_. •< _· . __ __. Fi~~~~ns:.::.-·· . _ <. 1~ _ : 1~ . ~~;~~J:; . . 
~·.-·ps.:.MassimoManC832FG·· .;·:·:."11:04 .."·10 ,_0~ ....Passing··.··. ·-:-:. ·. 7 7 FrnnkStims '-· 
· · Drive: 27 yams in 5 plays in 2:'33: '·': >·.' . . . <.• ·Penalty ·. ·. . . . . 1 · 3. · Reggie Ward · 
.. ·-folloWing Notre Dame punt.'··. •" · · ·.:' •.. · · Rushing Attempts· · .. · :_ 29 59.. Mark Green .,:-PS--,-Ma5simo Manca 27 FG· · . ·. <. 6:38. 13. 0 : Yards Rushing ··..'. . · 107· · · . 189 · Tony Eason ·;:>Drive:. 27 yards in 5 playsin 1;,54,_ · Tackles~Yards Lost Rushing · 5-17 ' . • 6-20 · Andy Heck 
·: following Rogers Alexander inter-·, · · .:.:; · ·::•.. · Net Yards Rushing·:'. · ·• " ' 90 : -169 .· :·ceptionofNotreDamepaSs.:--. ·· · ·. NefYardsP..1ssing · · ·· '133 126 ·J>ennState. ···­PS-:-Steve:Smith2run ::o-!5i. io. o· .. PaSsesAttempted ... 25 .:·. 18:.,: Rushing',.· :':"Att.-_GainLost. NetLOng •-TD-·. 
·.(Massimo Manca kick) , ... ·. · ·.· Passes Completed . : .· ·.: 13 . · · ·7 D. J. Dozier: · -·17 . 75 . 0· ·.·.75 . -17 0 · Drive: 6_5 yards in 10 plays_ in· ..·.. · Had Intercepted · · ~ 3'-·· 0 John Shaffer.· · ·; 4 · · · ·.8 · .· 0. · · 8 4 · 1 :·.' . . . · 3:33 following Notre Dame punt; . . · · .· · . Total Offensive Play's. ~ 55 '77 Tim Manoa · . 7 22:_. 0 . 22-. · 6 · . · 0 '. (lS..:.:-Massimo·Manca50FG ._-.. . ._. :o:i: 23 ·o:: '<_ThtalNetYards: ,: . 223· 295.-SteveSmith '· ··8 <18>~5 · 13 5: I· 
>.·Drive: minu54 yards in ·3 plays . · '". , .:· · · · .Avg. Gain Per Play.· 4.1 · •3.8 • David Clark :. "3 · ·14.-· 0 · 14 ·• · 7 · 0 · . -·· ·. in-:46following Ed_die~Johnson . RetumYards. ·. ·: · . .. 0. 99 Matt Knizne~" . :2 · 4: -3···, ·:t ·':A. ·. 0:-· . :..:· ·. recovery ofNotre Dame fumble: Flimbles:Number-Lost ·6-2 · .. 1-0 Kevin WoOds · 6. 18 . -3 · .ts· , 6 ,·' 0 
·:·ThirdQuarter: >..· .... · ~ . . · : · .Penalties:Nuinber-Yards . ·7-68 · · 6-40:. · Cooper· .·4 10 0 10 · ::s .:-. o 
: ·. PS~Johri Shaffer 1-nin .: -: · . ·.: :' 8:56 ·. 30. ··a)_,. Interceptions·: Number-Yards : "· · · .:.,O-o ·:3-75 . · · Blair Thomas · . 5 15: -4 ·. 11 · 6'. ··.o :':·Drive:32yarosin8plays·in3:46·: .. : NumberofPurits-Yaros· ··.·:.5-145-:2-69: -JohnHoniyak . ·( ·o·-.·,-o.· 0 ·o''•-o ·· ·follo\ving RaY: Isom interception :: . . . · .·Average Per Punt· .' · . :-·, 29 34. Gary Wilkerson. . . :·1 · 0. : -5: -5 · 0 .. 0 
: of Notre Dame pass. ·.: . . . ·. . · ·.: . . . . . · Punt Returns:· Number-Yards· :•. _· 0-0 · . 3-24 · Pass.. ·; · · · · ' A C ·. · · ·y T Lo' -. PS-MassimoManca26FG: ·' .4:07 ._33 · 6' · KickoffRetums:Number-Yards · 10-182···. :.._·o-o · mg ·, -. · tt. omp; 1nt. ds. · D ng ·· . 'Drive:37 Y<trds in 7'plays in.3:4.6 .. -. ·· Possessi01'11ime . . · 25:n ~ 34:49.:. John Shaffer· . · · 16 ·. 7 · . 0 .126 · . 1 37 
. . follo\ving Mike· Zoidich interceP-;. ., Third Dowri Conve~i~ns . _ . · 3-10 . c; .8~19_. ·Matt Knizner ·: · · .. 2 · : 0 0 ... 0 0 >: ·: 0 _: · · . tion of Notre Dame pass. . . .. . . -. . . · . . · PassR~eivi~g . . .-N~~-'-vds.~ng TD PS-Massimo Manca 35 FG . •.:55-.36 .,: 0'::...· . ·· · . Individual Statistics '·Dean Dimidio: · · · 2-· · 38 ·.25 0 ! . Drive: 3 Yards. in 3 plays in 1 :32 · · . . .. Notre Dame . . D: 'J: Dozier . 2 . • 28 2I' 1 -·. . . . following Penn State block of No-. . . , Rushi~g · :. · · ··. Att•. Gain · Lost· · Net TD_ Long' · Ray Roundtree . :· I · 37 · 37 ·.. 0 <-<treDamepunt;:.. · ... -~SteveBeuerlein· · :·4· F5·'··-9 ·-4 · 0 ·4 _DarreiiGiJes·• 1 15. 15 -~ 0' 'FourthQuarter·:·-··. _. AllenPinkett ·.. · -'12_.:.61 · ..o· ·61 ·o· ·ts TimManoa :· 1: 8· ·8 · o: ·ND..:.:..Hiawatha Francisco· 2 rini · 3:33 36 6 Frank Starns ·. ' -~ 3 .13 · 0 13 . 0 .. ·..7 ·, , · (Johri pimey.kick blocked) · .. · ' ..·<·-· Terry Andrysiak: .\ 6 . · 23 · • -8 · 15 · 0 lO: · Drive: 52 yards in 5_playsm 1:20 ".Tom Monahan · · I 0 · 0 ·. · 0 .... 0 . ·.0 .• . _.; ·. following Penn State punt. . · .. _.. . , .· H FranCisco 3 5 · ·o 5 · I 2 _: ,A-85; 704 (tickets sol~~; 84,000(estimated) <>.· A~~y H~ck, ::: ,; ,. . .-_1, : 5. _: 0 ~~. : ~-. :•o· · ;5_:... : 

LSU 



A Miracle Finish That Wasn't 
By MIKE McCALL 
September 12, 1981. 

On a hot and humid afternoon, with the temperature in the mid-80s, the birth of a new football era at Notre Dame began ... against the Bayou Bengals of Louisiana State. 
Gerry Faust would make his college coaching debut. 
In one of the most highly anticipated games in recent Notre Dame history, the Irish would rout LSU 27-9. 
"I saw him cry five times today," said Notre Dame wingback Tony Hunter. 
It was a fitting climax to a day Faust later was to call "one I hope never ends; it's the biggest thrill I have ever had out of football and I doubt if there will ever be anything to match it." 
The strains of the "Victory March" were still being played when Faust emerged for his first post-game interview as coach of the Irish. "They're playing our song,'; said Faust. 
All was well. 
November 23, 1985. 

On a cold, gray Saturday in Notre Dame· Stadium, the end of an era at Notre Dame drew near . . . against the Bayou Bengals of Louisiana State. 
"I've got a lot of breaks," said Faust after the game. "I've got my health, I've got a great family, I represent a great university and I get to work with great kids. I'm happy to have that opportunity. I don't worry about the breaks." 
Faust and his Irish didn't get many that day, losing to LSU 10-7. 
September 12, 1981. 
Notre Dame~ the nation's fourth-ranked 

team, struck quickly with two first-quarter 
touchdowns and dominated play on both 
lines. 
During Notre Dame's first two series, 

quarterback Blair Kiel threw his first college 
touchdown pass to fullback Larry Moriarty 
and later, Phil Carter scored from one yard 
out to cap a 72-yard drive. 
November 23, 1985. 
The Irish weren't ranked fourth in the 
nation on this Saturday. Notre Dame was 5-4 
and fighting for respectability against the 
17th-ranked Tigers. The prognosis for a 
victory looked bleak ... the Irish stood 7-12 
(1-3 in '85) against top 20-rated teams the 
last five years. 
On Notre Dame's first possession, the Irish 
put together a smooth, methodical scoring 

drive. With tailback Allen Pinkett picking up ·valuable yardage on the ground, Steve Beuerlein countered and tossed a 17-yarder 


The Irish thought they were back in business after an Eric Dorsey fumble recovery with 1:35 left in the game. 
to tight end Tom Rehder that put Notre 
Dame in LSU territory. 
The big play came on a Beuerlein sneak 
around end for seven yards with the Irish 
facing a crucial third and one from the LSU 
28. 
1\vo plays later, sophomore wide-out Tim 
Brown broke three tackles and scooted 18 
yards into the end zone. When John Carney 
added the point, the Irish led 7-0. 
September 12, 1981. 
With the Irish holding a commanding 14-0 
lead, Faust brought in fifth-year senior Tim 
Koegel at quarterback. 
"I didn't know it before the game, but the 
plan was for Blair and me to alternate every 
two series," said Koegel. "That way we 
knew we weren't coming out if we made a 
mistake." 
Seeing his first action since holding for Harry Oliver's miraculous last-second'field. goal over Michigan in 1980, Koegel led the 
Irish to their third score in the second 
quarter. 
November 23, 1985. 
This was going to be Notre Dame's day. The Irish had just marched over, around and through a very good Tiger defense led by All-American linebacker Michael Brooks. 
It wasn't going to be that easy. 
"It's always a thrill to play in places that you used to watch on TV wh~n you were a little kid," said Tiger safety Steve Rehage. "It's a great thrill for me to play here at Notre Dame with all the tradition." 
Later, Rehage would prevent Notre Dame from adding to that tradition. But for now, the Irish offense was moving the ball, while the defense was limiting the 
' ' · · 

· . I; t. · · ··I ·_ f 
Ve go a . ot 0 . breaks. I've ; g 0 t. my.
h 1th· ·I' -· ­
e a • V e gOt a 

great family. I repre-_ 
-t -. 
sen . a great untver­
sity and I get to work 
with 'g'reat kids.._I'm' 
· . 

happy to'. have-that _<>P.portunity. I don't 
WOrry a b . 0 Ut . the breaks."_'' 
.7-Gerry Faust 

Tiger offense to just two missed field-goal 
attempts. 
"Big! Huge!," said LSU noseguard Henry Thomas. "J'hey're easily the biggest team we've played this year. The offensive team did a good job with their blocking schemes keeping us off balance." 
Later, Thomas would figure out those Irish blocking schemes. 
In the second quarter, the· Notre Dame ­offense began to stall. New quarterback Terry Andrysiak tried to get back some of that momentum, directing the Irish to the Tiger 24-yard line. But a holding penalty forced Notre Dame back to the 34 where Carney attempted a 52-yard field goal. 
But Thomas, who had been knocked out for the season in last year's game against the 
Irish, delivered the first of two knockout 
punches against the Irish, breaking through 
the middle to block Carney's attempt. 
"I just was able to get through the line," said Thomas. 
Carney had another chance moments later after safety Steve Lawrence intercepted a Jeff Wickersham pass and returned it 30 yards to 
the Tiger 39. When the Irish could only pick up five yards on a Pinkett carry, Carney was called on to try another 52-yard attempt. This time the ball was tipped at the line of scrimmage; 
"I think the two field goals that were blocked had a breakdown come in the same place," explained Faust. "We had an injury, and the kid who filled that spot didn't do what he was supposed to do. On our field-goal teams we try to put kids with healthy knees on the line because of the blocking schemes. We've had a lot of kids injured because of the way they fall." 

September 12, 1981. 
At halftime, ti'e Irish had 227 yards, LSU 
96. The Irish had completed six of nine passes, LSU five of 13. The game of rotating quarterbacks didn't seem to bother the offense. "I thought they worked very well," Faust 
said. Notre Dame led 20-0 at the half. 
November 23, 1985. 
LSU finally put some points on the scoreboard as time ran out in the half when Steve DeFrank booted a 27-yarder through the uprights to cut the Irish lead 7-3. The kick was DeFrank's first attempt of his career. 
"He's a tough kid," said LSU coach Bill Arnsbarger, about replacing regular kicker Ron Lewis .. "I have all the confidence in the world in him but I just thought I'd give someone else a chance. 
"Our goal is to win and we'll do what we have to do to accomplish that." 
September 12, 1981. .. 
Koegel engineered the last Irish score bite in the third quarter. He concluded a 49-yard drive with a six-yard pass to Dave Condeni that gave Notre Dame a 27-3 lead. 
A 23-yard field goal by David Johnston of LSU early in the third period made it 20-3 before Koegel put the game out of reach. 
November 23, 1985. 
Notre Dame opened the second half the way it opened the first with a smooth, methodical drive, marching 74 yards, while eating up a little more than nine minutes off the clock. · 
But this time the Irish couldn't punch it in. 
Carney's 23-yard attempt was blocked again by Thomas. Again it was a breakdown on the line that caused Carney's failure on an almost-certain three-pointer. 
"That was a real disappointment to come out of it without scoring," said offensive guard Tim Scannell." We had a great drive and ate up a lot of time. We set the tempo and had taken control and didn't get anything 
out of it." "When it came time to put points on the board, we didn't show up," said Beuerlein. At the end of the third quarter, the Irish still led 7-3. 
September 12, 1981. 

LSU added the game's final points when freshman Eric Martin broke three tackles on a 26-yard scoring play. 
While the win was impressive and propelled the Irish to the number-one spot in both wire-service polls, Notre Dame was far from perfect. The Irish were hit with 106 yards in penalties. ­
"That concerns me but a lot of mistakes like that are because of aggressiveness," said Faust. 
The Irish held the advantage in every statistical category. The Irish outgained the Tigers 376 yards to 230 yards, gaining 246 yards on the ground to LSU's 169. Notre Dame picked up 130 yards in the air while the Tigers could only muster 61. 
"I can't ask for more of them" Faust said. "The kids gave 100 percent effort and that's all I ever ask. If we don't win, it wasn't meant to be." 
November 23, 1985. 
"These things sometimes are tough," said Faust. "That's not the end of life. You make your own breaks. We just didn't get enough of them." 
Despite Notre Dame's mistakes. Despite not being able to put the ball into the end zone on more than one occasion. Despite a somewhat lackluster performance, the Irish still held a 7-3 margin in the fourth quarter. 
But all that would soon change . . . for the worse. 
With four minutes remaining, Dan Sorensen's punt, from deep in Notre Dame territory, gave LSU possession at its own 48­yard line. 
The big play . . . on third and one from the Irish 43, Wickersham escaped a Notre Dame blitz and hit running back Dalton Hilliard, who gathered in the pass at full speed and raced 18 yards for the Tigers' only third-down conversion of the afternoon. 
Then Wickersham hit tight end Mitch Andrews over the middle for 21 more. Two plays later, tailback Garry James blasted through left tackle for two yards into the end zone. DeFrank's kick gave LSU a 10-7 lead. 
"We felt we were moving the ball well the whole game," said Wickersham. "We just weren't scoring points. We knew we had to turn it around and we were able to." 
Wickersham was sensational. The Tiger quarterback completed 31 of 42 passes for 294 yards as he moved into third place on the Southeastern Conference career passing yardage list. Wickersham's completion total also was the most ever thrown against an Irish team. 
The Irish still had time to pull this one out. Notre Dame moved to near midfield with Pinkett picking up nine yards on a pass, a four-yard run and Beuerlein adding 12 yards. 
But the Irish drive stalled and ended when Beuerlein, who finished the afternoon 11 of 

25 for 106 yards, threw to Reggie Ward, who 
tipped the ball into the hands of Tiger outside ·linebacker Ron Sancho. 
"It was a little bit too high," said Beuer­
lein. "Reggie went up for it and almost made 
an outstanding catch, but he just couldn't 
come up with it. LSU had its people in the 
right place at the right time." 
With just 1:50 left, senior tackle Eric 
Dorsey gave the Irish one last chance to pull 
one out in the seniors' final game at Notre 
Dame Stadium when he forced Hilliard to 
fumble, and then pick~d up the loose ball. 
"I thought that was going to be it because it aroused so much motivation at such a . critical point in the game," said Dorsey. "It seemed like one of the famous Notre Dame comeback stories." 
Not this time. The ghosts of past Notre 
Dame comebacks didn't hear Dorsey's call 
for help. 
On the first play, Beuerlein hit flanker Tim 
Brown on the numbers, but Brown couldn't 
hang onto the football and LSU's Rehage was 
there to catch the deflection. 
"We were thinking we finally got a break," 
said Beuerlein. "Forget the missed pass. 
That's not the issue. The thing was the guy 
(Rehage) was just sitting there. It seems like 
whenever it can go either way, it goes against 
us." 
September 12, 1981. 
"This was really a tough opener for us," 
said Faust. ''As for the penalties, I'll just 
have to take a long look at the films and see 
what we were doing wrong." 
There wasn't much wrong with the Irish 
that day. 
November 23, 1985. 
"It was a good game and a hard-hitting game," said Faust who saw his team drop to 5-5 with powerful Miami looming ahead in the Orange Bowl. "You can't fault our kids because they played hard. They did an excellent job and when it came down to th·e wire we were on the short end." 
But it was Notre Dame's inability to make the big play that snapped its six-game home win streak. 
"We moved the ball well," said Faust. "Their defense was very tight around the goal line and they've been good inside the 20-yard line on defense all year. We had our opportunities and we just didn't cash in." 
For the players, it was the same post-game questions ... and same post-game answers. 
"We moved the ball well but they came with stops when they had to," said Scannell. "They just played hard. We played well at times and had some good drives but we didn't put the ball into the end zone when we had to." 
"I thoughtwe moved the ball great," said Beuerlein. "We just couldn't get any points. The missed points on the blocked field goals hurt us but not putting the ball in the end zone was our big mistake." 
"We just got some poor breaks today," said senior linebacker Tony Furjanic. "We knew they had a pair of great running backs and that they would utilize them so we tried to shut them down as much as we could. We shouldn't have given up that last touchdown." 
September 12, 1981. 
"Hey, how'd you like us?" asked a giddy Phil Carter following the game. "This is exciting. I'm sure glad I don't have to play defense against us." 
November 23, 1985. 
"It's not exactly the way we wanted to end our home careers," said Furjanic. "But we played hard and we've got one game left and we'll play harder. They might defeat us but they won't be able to take our spirit away." 
Especially Allen Pinkett's. 
Pinkett deserved better than his fate allowed him. He became the first Notre Dame runner to gain 1 ,000 yards in three consecutive seasons on the first play of the second half. By game's end, he was only the 22nd Division 1-A runner to gain 4,000 career yards. 
Like he had done this day, all season, and for the last four years, the Notre Dame All­American carried the Irish attack on his back. He handled the ball 30 times for 103 yards and caught four passes for 24 more ... accounting for 127 yards in total offense. 
In the post-game interview, Pinkett should have been talking about his accomplishments. Instead the 5-9 fighter had to talk about defeat. 
"The personal things don't mean that much to me," said Pinkett. "The bottom line, really, is winning, and we haven't done enough of it. Personal achievements don't mean that much to me in a loss . 
"I'm the type of person that equates my success with the team's success. If we lose, I feel somewhere my performance was lacking." 
September 12, 1981. 
"He gave us a Rockne speech before the game," said Hunter. "He said this was the greatest university in the world and no other place could claim they had Rockne and the Gipper. He's living a dream now, and I'm happy for him." 
November 23, 1985. 
"You're always under pressure," said LSU coach Bill Amsbarger, whose Tigers improved to 7-1-1, when asked about the coaching fate of Faust. "I'll be under it next week. That's part of coaching." 
September 12, 1981. 
"It was a great day for me," Faust said. "It was fun. Better than I expected. When you come running out of that tunnel and into Notre Dame Stadium, it's got to be the greatest feeling in the world."· 
November 23, 1985. 
"I never even thought about this being my last time walking off the field at Notre Dame," said Faust. ''And that's the honest to God truth." 

Miami 

Last Stand Wasn't Much Fun 
By JOHN HEISLER 
When all of Miami's 534 total yards and 58 total points had been funneled through the computer, only one question remained. 
Who needed more sympathy in the aftermath of Notre Dame's fourth-worst defeat in Irish football history? 
Was it Gerry Faust, whose Notre Dame career came to an inglorious end thanks to the rude 58-7 shellacking administered by the Hurricanes? 
Or was it Miami coach Jimmy Johnson, who took a beating of his own from media around the nation because of the way in which his Hurricanes inflicted that beating upon the Fighting Irish? 
The postgame interview room hardly gave an indication of the final score because it was Johnson who was put on the defensive simply because his team played probably as well as any team has played against Notre Dame in a decade. The Hurricanes were that good .. 
The game, in fact, stood as a final monument to a week that was fraught with emotion from both camps. 
In Miami, where the Hurricanes found themselves riding an awfully impressive nine-game winning streak (following a 35-23 season-opening loss to Florida), there was consternation over the wire-service polls. Johnson and his players had a difficult time understanding how both the Associated Press poll of media and the United Press Interna­tional poll of coaches could list the 8-1 Oklahoma Sooners ahead of the 9-1 Hurricanes -when a head-to-head meeting in Norman in mid-October had produced a 27-14 Miami triumph. 
With Oklahoma slated to face top-ranked Penn State in the Orange Bowl, Miami figured to have an outside shot at the national championship. That possibility became moot when the Hurricanes were thrashed by Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl -but, in the meantime, Johnson figured a convincing victory over Notre Dame on national television could do nothing but help the cause of his Hurricanes. 
Still, that was nothing compared to what happened in the Notre Dame camp during Thanksgiving week. 
The game figured to be tough enough for Notre Dame, a team coming off consecutive disappointing losses to Penn State and LSU 


. ' . . .. --'~ ,..,. .... . . ~ . ~ . ' . ' . . . ~ ~ . . . 
and now simply trying to salvage a winning 
season. The Irish found themselves returning 
to the Orange Bowl turf, scene of two of 
Faust's previous low moments-a 37-15 
pummeling in '81 in a game that also was 
the difference between a winning and losing 
season, followed by a 20-0 blanking in '83. 
Both those contests, like the '85 game,. were 
displayed on national television. 
Add to all that the emotion produced at 11 
a.m. Thesday when Faust chose to announce his resignation at his ~egular weekly press conference. After steadfastly insisting to athletic department insiders that he would never resign because he didn't want anyone to look upon him as a quitter, Faust's timing caught players, assistant coaches and the Notre Dame administration by surprise. The 
·Irish players boarded their charter flight for 
Miami at midday Wednesday, just a few 
hours before Lou Holtz was officially 
unveiled as Faust's successor. 
Though Faust said he made his decision in 
hopes his team could play one last game free 
from the weight of questioning about their 
head coach's status and future, the result of 
the announcement might have had the 
opposite effect. The Irish players remained 
off-limits to media until after the game -so 
they remained alone with their thoughts of 
Faust and his frustrating five years, of Holtz 
and the promise of the future for the 
underclassmen. Throw in the contrast of the 
warmth and humidity of their Fort Lauder­
dale surroundings compared to the cold and 
snow back in South Bend -and it wasn't 
hard to suspect that I)lany of the Fighting 
Irish didn't quite know what to think. 
Almost to a man, the Notre Dame squad 
expressed surprise at Faust's timing and 
disappointment that his five-year tenure had 
to come to such an end. But whether or not 
the decision would affect the football game 
seemed to be anyone's guess. 
"I think a 'Win one for Gerry' situation is 
possible," suggested junior quarterback Steve 
Beuerlein, "but we've got some kids, 
especially seniors, who want to win for 'themselves, also. We're got pride. We'd like 
to end this season on a winning note." 
But if the Notre Dame players did indeed 
have any particular motivation to make up for 
their recent losses to Miami or to send Faust 
out on a winning note, they never showed it. 
Despite Miami amassing five first downs 
and 68 total yards and hitting its first four 
pass attempts, Notre Dame gained as much 
of a moral victory as it would gain all day by 
holding the Hurricanes to a field goal on the 
first drive of the afternoon. From a first 
down at the Irish 22, Hurricane quarterback 
Vinny Testaverde threw a trio of imcomple­
tions, forcing Miami to settle for three. 
Notre Dame's initial offensive attempt presaged the afternpon of frustration for the Fighting Irish. After Allen Pinkett gained the first six of his 77 yards on first down, Beuerlein fired a nifty sideline pattern to Tim Brown for an apparent first down. But the officials ruled Brown out.of bounds (replays indicated Brown clearly made a legal catch), 


-


Beuerlein threw incomplete on third down, Dan Sorensen punted the ball away -and Notre Dame didn't get its initial first down until the second-to-last-play of the first quarter. By that time Miami led 13-0 -and when Bennie Blades ran an interception 61 yards for six points on the third play of the second period, the issue for all practical purposes had been decided. 
When Faust suggested following the game that his Irish "had trouble with the pure passer this year," he wasn't kidding. Notre Dame already had been forced to submit to the aerial slants of Purdue's Jim Everett (he set a Notre Dame opponents record by throwing for 368 yards) and LSU's Jeff Wickersham (he set another with 31 completions)-but Testaverde added his own name to the record book. 
Miami's answer to Bernie Kosar completed 22 of 3i passes for 356 yards -and his backup, Geoff Torretta, hit three of four for 43 -making the 399 aerial yards the most ever gained against any Notre Dame team. 
The Irish defense never once stopped the Hurricanes by themselves. Miami scored every time it had the ball except when the clock ran out at the end of each half. Never once did the Hurricanes have to punt, and only once did a Notre Dame turnover contribute to the carnage. 
The tide of points and yardage was relentless. 
After that early field goal came a 35­yarder from Testaverde to Alonzo Highsmith. Four plays later it was 10-0. 
Then an uneventful 30-yard drive for a field goal that made it 13-0. · 
Then Blades' interception return. 20-0. Pinkett scor~d from the three after Terry Andrysiak had relieved Beuerlein, but Testaverde came right back with a pair of 22­yard throws within four plays. 27-7. 
The second half was just as bleak. Testaverde dropped back to pass six straight times on the first series. 30-7. 
Testaverde threw 28 yards to Highsmith, then 13 to Willie Smith, then 15 to Mike Irvin; 37-7. 
Then it was 45 yards to Bob Perriman arid 21 to Smith. 44-7. When Torretta came on, he threw four times during a seven-play drive. 51-7. A blocked punt added the final indignity. 58-7. 
Only on the last possession of the game, beginning with 2:30 remaining, did Miami disdain the airwaves and choose to run the ball. 
It was all too painful for the Irish to recall. 
If the scene in the Irish Iockerroom wasn't as emotional as some might have expected, it was only because there had been so much time for the crushing defeat to sink in. The only question in the second half was waiting to see where the final score would fit into Notre Dame's list of worst defeats in history (a 59-0 loss to Army in 1944 marked the most recent larger defeat margin). _ 
Yet reaction to the one-sided finale could be found everywhere, prompted as much by Miami's relentless point-scoring as by 
;., '· ·.. •.· . : . ·__ ,· ..··. 

. ''Ii'!i a Sha~e peo~
.: pie were:.:ups.et _with<-,'.. . : ~h~;:scor_e~, but·_.what'.; am I. _suppo~ed. to. do,?.·;_,,.~ .. ·,·: _--_· :··: 

· · Jim Jcihns,qn 
'' ·:.~· . 
criticism of it by CBS commentators. 
Did Miami really run up the score? Or did the Hurricanes merely play a perfect football game, as many on both sidelines suggested? Did Faust deserve a better ending to his up­and-down five seasons with the Irish? Or was Notre Dame so inept on the field that it did as much to create this Miami monster as the Hurricanes did? 
The debate raged for weeks. Faust refused to enter the fracas, reasoning that every coach has to make his own decisions about his own team in his own way. 
Said Johnson: "It's a shame people were upset with the score and it's a shame the score got out of hand, but what am I supposed to do? Tell a kid like Geoff Torretta to go in there after he had sat on the bench the last few games and just kneel with the ball? If a baseball team put in its subs after getting a big lead, would the manager have those players strike out on purpose? It's too bad· such a great game by our players has to 

·.. . . .. ~-~-· .... ·. '.. . ' . . . .. . .. .. . . 

Junior Hiawatha Francisco looks for a way to escape the clutches of Miami end John Mc­
nickname implied. 
Veigh. 

Scoring Summary · . · . · uM..:..Bm Hawkin5 recoveryJn 58 ·. 7 fuo;sing Att.Comp. Int•.¥ards ~ TD Long . First Quarter · Tin~~ ND .iTht · · end zone of blocked punt Vinny Tcstaverde . 32 . 22 . a . 356 2 45 · UM-Greg Cox 39 FG : 8:47 . 3 . a. (Greg Cox kick) · · GeoffTorretta 4 . 3 0 43 .· 0 . 19 
Drive: 68 yardsin ·J5 plays in A-49,236 Receiving­. .· :No~ lnr~ TD Long:6: 13 followmg opening ktckoff .. 
WillieSmith .. 6 sa . a 21UM.:...Warren Williams 6 run· • 5:5a Ja a Mike Irvin·. 5 67 1 22 ·.­
(Greg Cox kick) . . 

Brett Pcrriman 4 97 a .45
Drive: 55 yards in 5 plays in 2: 12 
. a 7 a a...:..·7 
Alonzo Highsmith . 3 · 74 a· 35 . following Notre Dame punt. 
13 14. 10 21....:..58 Andre Brown I. 17. a. 17.
• UM-Greg Cox 47 FG :47_. 13 a Brian Blades I' 17 a. 17Drive: 30 yards in 7. plays in 2:41 Darryl Oliver . I 15 a 15following Notre Dame punt. 
Charles Henry · 1 11' a .11
Second Quarter · • · .. · · · Indh:idual Statistics Melvin Bratton 1 ~ 7 I 7.
UM-Bennie. Blades 61 interception 
. ··Notre Dame Warren Williams. l 7 a .. 7-.
. return . • . . 14:a4 2a a . . (Greg Cox kick) · 
" .,.·· Rushing · Att. Gain Lost Net .TD Long' Todd Stanish I· ;7 0 ·7_ Allen Pinkett · 18 79 2: · 77 · I 16 .
· ND...:..Allen Pinkett 3 run 10:23 2a 7 
H. Francisco . . 8 36 3 . 33 . a ' 9 .
(John Carneykick) . . _ 

Tom Monahan . 4: 21 a•-2l···.o. 14
~ · Drive: sa yards in 10 plays in 

4 : 1a 5. . '5 ' a 10 Tea11_1 Statistics
· 3:41 following Miami kickoff.: · Steve Beuerlein 
Mark Green· 1 .5 a .5. ·a· 5 ND <UM.
UM-Melvin Bratton 7 pass. · 5:2~ ..-27 7 
1 3--a>. -3 ·a·· .3

from· Vinny Testaverde _Tim Brown First D'owns 17 29 
Terry· Andrysiak · ' . 4 . 12 10 ' .· 2 ' a 11 .
·(Greg Cox kick) . · ' . . . Rushing 8 .8 : 
Frank Starns · 1 -o·.a ..• a.·o ..a· ·Passing ·· 9 21'·_Drive: 68 yards in·ll. plays in­
4:57 following Notre Dame kick-. · Att.Comp. Int~ fuds .. TD Long Penalty ··. . · . : · a a
Passing ..
· off.·. =· · · · · · · · ·. ·· · · · Steve Beuerlein 11 : ' ·6 · 1 · · 84 a 34 · Ru~hing AttemptS 41· '37 . ·Third Quarter· 13 . 6_· a · i09 a · 29 .Yards Gained Rushing · · ·166 165.
Terry_ Andrysiak
·UM:-=:-Greg Cox48 FG . :: .. : -· .. 5;35 3{) .7. · Yards Lost Rushing · · 2a. 3a· .· 
· . Drive: 5~ yards in 11 plays in . Pass Receiving 'No; Yards. TD Lo~g · .: Net Yards Rushing · · .146 135. ... ·3:57 following· Notre· Dame Joss Reggie Ward · . 3 .. 53 a: · 34 · · Net Yards Passing : . 193 . 399' 
·: ofball..·. · .. ·Allen Pinkett·. 3 . 39 a 29· · Passes Attempted 24 . :. 36. ' UM..;-Mikelrvin ·15 ·pass . .· 1:22 37 7. ·H; Fciricisco 2 .· 36 0 27 · Passes ·completed, · · ~ .. 12 25 .· 
· · · · from:Vinny Testaverde.· . . 
·Alvin Miller 1 • 23 .·~·a · 23 · . Had Intercepted :· 1 ·a · · '(Greg Cox kick) :·. : . · • 
Tony Eason. I, 21 · a . 21' · Total'Offensive Plays ·. . 65' 73 ..: Drive: 75 yim:lsin 6 plays in2:4a .· 
Joel Williams . I 13 a 13. · .. Total Net Yards . ·.... · 339· . 534 ·.: : . follow.ing Notre Dame punt: 
:Frank Starns . 1· 8 a· · _8 : AvemgeGain Per Play· 5.2 :· 7.3' Fourth Quarter . · · . ·._. , . Return Yards · . · ' a :'67' UM-:-Vinny Testaverde_l run: · .·J2:5a: 44. 7 . . · · Miaini :. . .Fumbles:Numbcr-Lost 1-a. 3-0 (Greg Cox kick)·... • . -. Rushing·, , . ·Att.· Gain Lost Net· 'fri Lon~.. Penalties:Number-Yards · . .5-48 4-30 · Drive: sa yards. iri plays in 2:10 Alonzo Highsmith .·· 8 . .31: . a · · 31 a· .. 7 Interceptions: Number-Yards · '' . a-o . 1~61. 
·following· Notre Dain'e punt. · · . _ . Warren Williams · 9 · 43 • · a ·. 4a3 '. :. · a1 ··._:_tJ~ ·." ·. Number of Punts-Yards 6-2aJ a-a~. 
UM-Andre Brown 17 pass·· · . ~:11 51. 7.. · Melvin Bratton 5 2a · a : 2 5 ·Average PCr Punt··:·· , 33.5. a.· . ·:: from.Geoff:rorretta :'/• .. 
Vinny Testaverde · · · · 6 . · 27 _.· ·. 22 ..·· . 5 1_ 19: Punt Returns: Number-Yards · · . a-a 3-6. (Mark Seelig kick)'~: •· . _ .. . Darryl Oliver · 3. .. 2 :. a· ·. · 2 a I . Kickoff Returns:Number-Yards 5-100. 2-39 .·.. · Drive:47 yards in 7 plays in 3:26 
Geoff Torretta 1 .. 2 · :. a ·.. · 2 a· · · · 2 Possession Time · · · .: 24:53: 35:07 _· .. following Notre Dame: loss of· 
:J.C. Penny . . ·4 ··. 4a 2.:·· 38 · · :0 . 27 ... Third-Down Conversions·· . :5ofl4 6_ofl4._ . . ball ori d~ns;· '._,:: •: . ; ::c-:: )3ret~PCrriman'.:."·· ·1·<~~6 .. 6::•a a.~..-6· :>SacksBy·.,:_ ·.· .. . '2-22' 5-15: 
Notes on Notre Dame 



Irish Items: Football '85 
By JOHN HEISLER 
• 
Seve·n different Notre Dame football players earned some sort of All-America mention in 1985. Senior tailback ALLEN PINKETT was a first-team pick by Football News and an honorable mention choice by both the Associated Press and United Press International. Senior offensive guard TIM SCANNELL was a second-team Football News selection and an honorable mention choice by both AP and UPI. Senior line­backer TONY FURJANIC earned honorable mention notice from UPI -while senior defensive tackle ERIC DORSEY and junior free safety STEVE LAWRENCE won honorable mention billing from AP. Furjanic, Dorsey and senior offensive tackle MIKE PERRINO were selected as '~lmost All­Americans" by Football News. Sophomore linebacker CEDRIC FIGARO was a second­team selection on the Sophomore All­America team named by Football News. · 

• 
At the 66th annual Notre Dame Football Banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, ALLEN PINKETT was honored as the most valuable player for 1985 for the third straight season. ERIC DOR­SEY was chosen the outstanding defensive player, while TIM SCANNELL was selected the outstanding offensive player. All three awards are chosen by vote of the players­with the Notre Dame National Monogram Club presenting the MVP award. 

• 
Senior defensive tackle GREG DINGENS received a quartet of academic awards following his '85 season. 


First, he was one of 12 players from around the country selected to receive a $3,000 scholarship for postgraduate study by the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. Dingens received his award at the annual Hall of Fame dinner December 3 at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York. At that same affair, Notre Dame Hall of Fame inductees Dan Devine, Paul Hornung and Fred Miller also were honored. Dingens became the 13th Notre Dame player to earn one of the Hall of Fame scholarships since that program began in 1959. 
Second, he was one of 25 football players granted $2,000 postgraduate stipends by the ­NCAA. Dingens becomes the 14th Notre Dame football player thus honored and the 25th Irish athlete honored overall since that program's inception in 1964. 
Third, he was voted a first-team Academic All-American by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) on its GTE-sponsored team. He had been a second-team selection as both a sophomore 
50 

I • • ~ • ;~ ~· • ' \ "< } ' 
and junior. 

Fourth, he was presented the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Scholar-Athlete award for the second straight year at the Notre Dame Football Banquet. 
Dingens achieved a 3.778 grade average through his first three years as a pre­professional candidate with a history major in the College of Arts and Letters. A Rhodes scholarship candidate, Dingens will attend the University of Michigan Medical School with plans to be an orthopaedic surgeon. 
The 6-5, 257-pounder from Bloomfield Hills, Mich., was a defensive tackle starter for the Irish in '85 until a knee injury against Army sidelined him during the final six games of the season. 
• Fifty-five monograms were awarded to members of the '85 Notre Dame football squad: 
Seniors (15)-Pat Ballage, Pat Cusack, Rick DiBernardo, Greg Dingens, Tom Doerger, Eric Dorsey, Tony Furjanic, Mike Kiernan, Mike Larkin, John McCabe, Mike Perrino, Ron Plantz, Allen Pinkett, Tim Scannell, Jay Underwood. 
Juniors (25)-John Askin, Robert Banks, Steve Beuerlein, Dave Butler, John Carney, Hiawatha Francisco, Tom Freeman, Mike Haywood, Shawn Heffern, Wally Kleine, Mike Kovaleski, Chris Kvochak, Chuck Lanza, Steve Lawrence, Alvin Miller, Tom Monahan, Tom Rehder, Pete Rokich, Dan Sorensen, Marv Spence, Byron Spruell, Pernell Taylor, Ron Weissenhofer, Joel Williams, Troy Wilson. 
Sophomores (11)-Terry Andrysiak, Ti111-. Brown, Matt Dingens, Tony Eason, Cedric Figaro, Darrell Gordon, Jeff Kunz, Wes Pritchett, Frank Starns, Reggie Ward, Brandy Wells. 
Freshmen (4)-Mark Green, Andy Heck, Aaron Robb, George Streeter. 
Four-time monogram-winners included Ballage, DiBernardo, Greg Dingens, Dorsey, Furjanic, Larkin, Pinkett an4 Scannell. 
Graduating seniors receiving service monograms were Ray Carter, Mike James, Todd Lezon and David McGuffey. 
• Irish captain and linebacker TONY FURJANIC spent more minutes on the field than any other Irish player in '85 with his 
327:11 playing-time figure. Here's a complete listing of playing times for the '85 season, including how many games each individual played and started: 
Offensive Linemen-Ron Plantz 221:56 (started 11), Mike Perrino 212:04 (started 11), Tim Scannell 202:03 (started 10), Tom Doerger 192:37 (started 8, played 11), Shawn Heffern 184:08 (started 10, played 11), John Askin 94:02 (started 1, played 10) Jay Underwood 80:19 (started 4, played 10), Chuck Lanza 79:57 (played 11), Byron Spruell 62:32 (played 9), Tom Freeman 
60:54 (played 10), Pete Rokich 45:47 (played 10), Tom McHugh 15:13 (played 6), Tom Riley 7:40 (played 2), Mark Antonietti 3:37 (played 4), Rick Michalak :54 (played 1), Dom Prinzivalli :54 (played 1). 
Receivers-Tom Rehder 195:43 (started 9, played 11), Tim Brown 158:46 (started 10), Reggie Ward Ill:54 (started 10, played 11), Joel Williams 90:11 (started 2, played 11), Tony Eason 86:09 (started 1, played 11), Mark Green 78: 17 (played 10), Alvin Miller 
71:12 (played 10), ·Andy Heck 66:06 (played 10), Pat Cusack 31:31 (started 1, played 6), ~ Mike James 6:45 (played 4), Karl Hillerman 
4: 17 (played 3), Todd Lezon :34 (played 1). 
Offensive Backs-Allen Pinket 215:54 (started 11), Steve Beuerlein 209:17 (started 10, played 11), Frank Starns 193:33 (started 11), Tom Monahan 83:08 (played 11), Terry Andrysiak 72:37 (started 1, played 9), Hiawatha Francisco 52:32 (played 11), 

. Pernell Taylor 28:00 (played 11), Tom Byrne 
6:37 (played 3), Corny Southall 6:25 (plaYed 6), Ray Carter 5:28 (played 4), Alonzo Jefferson 4:32 (played 1), Pat Pesavento 1:36 (played 1), Larry Diedrick :46 (played 2). 
Defensive Linemen-Eric Dorsey 261:25 (started 11), Jeff Kunz 148:14 (started 5, played 10), Wally Kleine 133:59 (started 5, played 7), Mike Kiernan 131:02 (started 3, played 9), Matt Dingens 118:07 (played 11), Greg Dingens 111:21 (started 5), Bob Martz 
25:39 (played 4), Ted FitzGerald 13:13 (played -3), Mike Seasly 4:05 (played 2), Tony Puntillo :40 (played 1). 
Linebackers-Tony Furjanic 327:11 (started 11), Robert Banks 258:04 (started 11), Cedric Figaro 225:39 (started 8, played 11), Mike Kovaleski 199:43 (started 10), Mike Larkin 114:55 (started 6, played 9), Ron Weissenhofer 107:31 (started 1, played 10, Rick DiBernardo 99:50 (started 1, played 11), Wes Pritchett 46:24 (played 11), Dave Butler 44:01 (played 11), Darrell Gordon 
28:29 (played 11), Greg Harris 2:43 (played 1),.Tom Galloway 1:15 (played 5), John Cooney :55 (played 2). 
Defensive Backs-Troy Wilson 305:58 (started 11), Pat Ballage 305:35 (started 11), Steve Lawrence 281:54 (started 11), Marv Spence 211:32 (started 3, played 11), Mike Haywood 200:36 (started 8, played 11), Brandy Wells 58:52 (played 10), Chris Kvochak 32:19 (played 9), Aaron Robb 
21:17 (played 6), George Streeter 20:41 

;., •• • • • •.._.,.. ~ _.I ' ,. ' I ' '" • ' '" ' -• • • ~ < -'-' ~ \P 
(played 11), David McGuffey 17: 19 (played 5), Walter Howard 3:09 (played 1). Specialists-Dan Sorensen 19:55 (played 11), John Carney 7:39 (played 11), John -Grieb 3:55 (played 6), Hal Von Wyl 3:04 (played 7). 
• Postseason bowl participation by Notre Dame players in '85 included appearances by ALLEN PINKETT (Blue-Gray and Japan Bowl games), TONY FURJANIC (Blue­Gray and Japan Bowl games), TIM SCAN­NELL (Blue-Gray and Japan Bowl games), PAT BALLAGE (Blue-Gray game), ERIC DORSEY (Blue-Gray game) and MIKE PERRINO (East-West Shrine game). 
• Here's where Notre Dame finished in 
team categories in the final NCAA statistics · for the '85 season: 68th in total offense 
(334.5 yards per game), 56th in rushing offense (163.9), 61st in passing offense (170.6), tied for 62nd in scoring offense 
(20.9 points per game), 56th in total defense 
(352.7 yards per game), 42nd in rushing defense (158.3), 65th in pass defense (194.5), 49th in scoring defense (21.3 points per game) and 40th in punt returns (8.4 yards per return). 
Notre Dame's individual rankings included ALLEN PINKETT 21st in rushing (100.0 yards per game), tied for 60th in scoring (6.0 points per game) and 34th in all-purpose running (112.5 yards per game, including receptions and runbacks), STEVE BEUER­LEIN 68th in passing efficiency (94.9 rating) and 81st in total offense (119.6 yards per game), STEVE LAWRENCE tied for 27th in interceptions (.45 per game), DAN SORENSEN 43rd in punting (40.9 yards per punt), TROY WILSON tied for 40th in punt returns (8.5 yards per return), TIM BROWN 11th in kickoff returns (24.1 yards per return), JOHN CARNEY tied for 38th in field goals (1.18 per game) and tied for 79th in scoring (5.5 points per game). 
Notre Dame's 1985 schedule ranked as the toughest in the nation both before and after . the season. 
Prior to the opening of the campaign, the Irish schedule was rated tops in the country in difficulty by College & Pro Football Newsweekly. 
The CPFN system ranked each opponent on a 1-10 scale, then also added extra points for home-field advantage by opponents and particularly difficult road foes. In '85, Notre Dame played eight teams that qualified for postseason bowl action the previous season. In fact, the Irish opened the schedule with six straight games against bowl teams from '84 -Michigan (Holiday Bowl), Michigan State (Cherry), Purdue (Peach), Air Force (Independence), Army (Cherry) and USC (Rose). No team on the '85 schedule had won less than four games in '84 and the 11 teams combined for a 71-47-4 (.598) regular­season mark. Here's how CPFN rated the 10 toughest schedules for 1985: 
Points 

1. 
NOfRE DAME..............105 

2. 
Baylor .....................103 




3. Michigan ...................1 02 Florida State ................102 
5. Miami (Fla.) ................101 Florida .....................101 

7. Maryland ...................100 Pittsburgh ..................1 00 Mississippi. .................100 ! i. UCLA .....................100 Alabama....................100 
The NCAA preseason rankings for toughest schedules listed Notre Dame's '85 slate as the 14th toughest in terms of percentage by Irish foes against Division 1-A opponents. The Irish mark was 62-47-4 from '84 for a .566 figure. Florida stood first at .661 -while Irish opponents listed included Michigan (12th at .579), USC (22nd at · .548), Ole Miss (25th at .542), Penn State (43rd at .509) and Navy (46th at .506). Notre Dame, Michigan, Florida and Illinois all played eight teams in '85 that played in bowl games in '84 -and those four teams led the nation in that category. 
Once the season was over, the NCAA still listed Notre Dame's schedule as the toughest. When not playing the Irish, Notre Dame's '85 opponents went 72-29-3 against other Division 1-A teams for a .707 percentage. Behind the Irish were Alabama (.662), Florida (.660), Rice (.622), Auburn (.621), Illinois (.616), Boston College (.613), Rutgers (.607), Minnesota (.601) and Michigan (. 600). 
Among Notre Dame's '85 opponents, eight qualified for postseason bowl games -with Michigan (Fiesta Bowl), Air Force (Bluebon­net) and Army (Peach) recording victories while Michigan State (All-American), USC (Aloha), Penn State (Orange), LSU (Liberty) and Miami (Sugar) were dropping postseason contests. 
• Here's an early look at Notre Dame's 1986 schedule and how the 11 teams finished in 1985: 
MICHIGAN ...............·.10-1-1 at Michigan State .............7-5-0 PURDUE....................5-6-0 at Alabama ..................9-2-1 PITTSBURGH ...............5-5-1 AIR FORCE ................12-1-0 at Navy .................... .4-7-0 SMU .......................6-5-0 PENN STATE ...............11-1-0 at LSU ......................9-2-1 at USC ......................6-6-0 
'fOTAL....................84-41-4 (.667) 

In '86, the Irish play seven teams that played in '85 bowl games-Michigan, Michigan State, Alabama, Air Force, Penn 
~

State, LSU and USC. On the schedule, Notre Dame trades '85 opponents Army (9-3 in '85), Miami (10-2) and Ole Miss (4-6-1) for '86 foes Pittsburgh (5-5-1), SMU (6-5) and Alabama (9-2-1). 
In '85 Notre Dame played five teams that were ranked in the Associated Press top 20 when they faced the Irish-Air Force (17th), Army (19th), Penn State (1st), LSU (17th) and Miami (4th). 
52 
In '86 Notre Dame plays five teams that 
finished in the Associated Press final top 20 
for '85-Michigan (2nd), Penn State (3rd), 
Air Force (8th), Alabama (13th) and LSU 
(20th). 

Ironically, all six teams that visit Notre 
Dame Stadium next fall defeated the Irish the 
last time the teams met. 
• 
TONY FURJANIC was named the Associated Press Midwest Defensive Player of the Week following Notre Dame's 37-3 victory over USC. Furjanic made 17 tackles that afternoon as the Irish kept the Trojans out of the end zone despite being outgained by 11 in the total yards department. 

• 
STEVE BEUERLEIN finished the '85 season as Notre Dame's career leader in pass completions and interceptions-and he needs to throw only 19 more passes for 60 more yards to become the all-time Irish leader in those two categories. 


With his senior season still remaining, 
Beuerlein already has completed 322 career 
passes, breaking Terry Hanratty's figure of 
304 set in 1966-68. He also has thrown 36 
career interceptions, beating Joe Theismann's 
old mark of 35 set in 1968-70. 
Beuerlein's career pass attempt figure 
stands at 591, not far behind Blair Kiel 's 
record of 609 set in 1980-83. His career 
passing yardage total of 4,352 is easily in 
reach of Theismann's record of 4,411. 
Beuerlein's 214 passes attempted in 1985 marked the fifth highest single-season total in Notre Dame history, trailing Theismann's record 268 ia 1970. 
• 
Sophomore quarterback TERRY ANDRYSIAK tied an Irish record by completing. 10 straight passes during the '85 season. He connected on his last two against Purdue, all three against USC and his first five against Navy to tie the record set in 1942 by Angelo Bertelli against Stanford and again by Joe Montana in 1978 against Georgia Tech. 

• 
JOHN CARNEY tied a Notre Dame singe-game record in the '85 season opener at Michigan by kicking four field goals­matching the performance of Harry Oliver against Miami in 1980 and against Michigan State in 1980 and by Chuck Male vs. 


. Michigan in 1979. 

Carney attempted 22 field goals in '85, 
tying Mike Johnston's '82 total for the 
second-best single-season total-behind 
Oliver's 23 in '80. 

His . 732 career field-goal percentage (30 of 41) remains a careerrecord-:While his career marks for field goals and attempts rank only behind the totals of Dave Reeve (39 of 64 in 1974-77) and Johnston (31 of 43 in 1982-83). 
• STEVE LAWRENCE recovered five fumbles in 1985 to tie the single-season record set by Mike Gann in '84, Jim Browner in '77, Jim Musuraca in '71, Don Penza in '53 and Dave Flood in '52. Lawrence has eight career recoveries, within four of Ross Browner's career record of 12 set in 1973, '75-'77. 
• TIM BROWN was named the Owens-
Corning Amateur Athlete of the Week by ESPN in honor of his performance against 
Michigan State in the 27-10 Irish victory September 21. 
Brown returned the second-half kickoff 93 yards for a touchdown to put Notre Dame ahead for good and also caught four passes for 88 yards. 
• Notre Dame saw several noteworthy opponent records set by teams playing the Irish in 1985. · 
Michigan State's Ed Smith held the Irish opponent mark for pass completions with his 27 in 1978 -but both Jim Everett of Purdue 
(27) and Jeff Wickersham of LSU (31) matched or topped that figure in '85. 
Purdue's Mark Herrmann held the passing yardage mark with 351 in 1977-but both Everett (368) and Miami's Vinny Testaverde 
(356) surpassed him in '85. 
The five field goals by Penn State's Massimo Manca marked the most ever against Notre Dame in either a game or a career-topping five other kickers who had booted three field goals in a single game against the Irish. 
Also, Miami's total passing yardage figure of 399 yards stands as the best team total in Irish books, beating Purdue's 351 in 1977. Everett's five career touchdown passes against Notre Dame tie the record held by Herrmann and Len Dawson from Purdue as well as Pat Haden of USC. 
• Notre Dame probably received more television exposure in 1985 than any other college football team. 
Both the Michigan and Miami games were shown nationally by CBS. The Air Force game was shown nationally by ABC-ami both the Navy and Penn State games were shown on a split national basis by ABC. ESPN sent the Michigan State game in prime time to its national cable audience. The Purdue game was seen in 30 markets via a TBS Sports syndication that was part of the Big 10 supplementary package. The Army, Mississippi and LSU games were telecast by TEN (Television Enterprise Network), a national syndication to 70 markets including WGN in Chicago, as well as by USA Network. 
The USC game could not be televised live because of the Trojans' probationary status­but it was shown on a delayed basis in both Los Angeles and South Bend on Saturday night. 

• Several Notre Dame players finished the '85 season with impressive streaks of starting assignments. ALLEN PINKETT finished his career with 35 straight starts, MIKE PERRINO with 25, ROBERT BANKS with 23 and PAT BALLAGE with 21. TIM SCANNELL had a string of 22 straight snapped when he did not play against Purdue. 
Players who started every game for the Irish in '85.included TONY FURJANIC, BANKS, BALLAGE, TROY WILSON, STEVE LAWRENCE, PERRINO, RON PLANTZ, PINKETT, FRANK STAMS and ERIC DORSEY. 
The Records 

Charting .Allen Pinkett 
Pinkett's Career Statistics 
Rushing 

G-GS Time TC Yds. Avg. TD LG 1982 10-1 110:08 107 532 5.0 5 76 1983 11-11 229:45 252 1394 5.5 16 53 1984 11-11 198:11 275 1105 4.0 17 66 1985 11-11 215:54 255 1100 4.3 11 43 
TOTAL 43-34 753:58 889 4131 4.6 49 76 
Pass Receiving 

Rec. Yds. Avg. TD LG 1982 9 94 10.4 0 19 1983 28 288 10.3 2 59 1984 19 257 13.5 1 40 1985 17 135 7.9 0 22 
TOTAL 83 774 10.6 3 59 
Passing 

Att. Comp. Yds. TD Int. 1982 0 0 0 0 0 1983 1 1 59 0 0 1984 2 2 30 1 0 1985 0 0 0 0 0 
TOTAL 3 3 89 0 
Kickoff Returns 

KO Ret. Yds. Avg. TD LG 1982 14 354 25.3 1 93 1983 0 0 0.0 0 0 1984 0 0 0.0 0 0 1985 0 0 0.0 0 0 
TOTAL 14 354 25.3 93 
Notre Dame Career Charts 
Rushing 
Carries Yards Avg. TD 

1. 
ALLEN PINKETT, 1982-85 •••. 889 4131 4.6 49 

2. 
Vagas Ferguson, 1976-79 ........ 673 3472 5.2 32 

3. 
Jerome Heavens, 1975-78........ 590 2682 4.5 15 

4. 
Phil Carter, 1979-82 ............ 557 2409 4.3 14 

5. 
George Gipp, 1917-20 .......... 369 2341 6.3 16 

6. 
Emil Sitko, 1946-49 ............ 362 2226 6.1 25 


Pass Receiving 
PC Yards TD Avg. 


1. 
Tom Gatewood, 1969-71. ......... 157 2283 . 19 14.5 

2. 
'Jim Seymour, 1966-68 ........... 138 2113 16 15.3 

3. 
Ken MacAfee, 1974-77 .......... 128 1759 15 13.7 

4. 
Tony Hunter, 1979-81 ............ 120 1897 5 15.8 

5. 
Joe Howard, 1981-84 ............ 85 1663 7 19.6 

6. 
ALLEN PINKETT, 1982~85 ••.•• 73 774 3 10.6 


...:l 
~ ~ 
z 
z 
~ 
f:j 
~ 

Total Offense Pinkett Game by Game 
Plays 'Thrds Avg. 

1. 
Joe Theismann, 1968-70 .... 807 5432 6.7 1982 

2. 
Terry Hanratty, 1966-68 .... 731 4738 6.5 


Rushing Receiving3. Tom Clements, 1972-74..... 760 4664 6.1 

Game Att. Yds. TD Rec. Yds. TD 
4. Joe Montana, 1975, 77-78 ... 644 4225 6.6 
Michigan -DID Naf PLAY­5. ALLEN PINKETT, 1982-85 892 4220 4.7 
Purdue 1 1 0 0 0 0 
6. George Gipp, 1917-20 ...... 556 4110 7.4 
Michigan State 5 11 0 0 0 0 Miami 6 20 0 1 -6 0
Scoring 

Arizona 8 37 1 0 0 0 TD PAT FG Pts. Oregon 7 44 1 1 9 0 
1. 
ALLEN PINKETT, 1982-85 53 2@ 0 320 Navy 27 129 1 1 13 0 

2. 
Louis (Red) Salmon, 1900-03 36 60 2 250 Pittsburgh 10 112~ 2 1 17 0 

3. 
Dave Reeve, 1974-77 ....... 0 130 39 247 Penn State 19 70 0 2 25 0 

4. 
Stan Cofall, 19I4-I6 ....... 30 60 2 246 Air Force 13 65 0 2 17 0 

5. 
Vagas Ferguson, I976-79.... 35 0 0 210 usc 11 43 0 I 19 0 

6. 
Gus Dorais, I910-I3 ....... I2 96 1I I98 


TarAL I07 532 5 9 94 0@ one two-point conversion 
1983


Pinkett's Records 

Purdue I5 115 I 2 23 0 
Irish tailback Allen Pinkett established the following records during 
Michigan State 25 104 0 2 I4 0 his four seasons at Notre Dame between 1982-85. 
Miami I5 58 0 5 30 0 Colorado 18 132 1 0 0 0

Game 

South Carolina 22 114 1 3 57 I
. 
Rushing Attempts: 40 vs. LSU in '84; ties Phil Carter who also 
Army 22 132 3 2 22 0had 40 vs. Michigan State in '80 usc 21 I22 3 2 10 0 Navy 29 l21 2 3 27 0

Season 

Pittsburgh 22 82 0 3 I5 I
. 
Touchdowns: 18 in '83 (16 rushing, 2 receiving) and '84 (17 rush-
Penn State 36 217 4 I -3 0 
ing, 1 receiving); Vagas Ferguson held previous mark with 17 in 

Air Force 27 197 1 5 93 0
1979 

* Points: 110 (18 touchdowns, 1 two-point conversion) in '83; Red TarAL 252 1,394 16 28 288 2 Salmon held previous mark with 105 in J903 100-Yard Games: 9 in '83; Vagas Ferguson held previous m~rk with '83 Liberty Bowl 
* 
7 in 1979 

Boston College 28 111 2 0 0 0 
* Consecutive 100-Yard Games: 5 (Colorado, South Carolina, Army, USC, Navy) in '83; Jim Stone held previous mark with 4 in 1980 
1984 

* All-Purpose Yardage: 1,682 (1,394 rushing, 288 receiving) in '83; Bob Gladieux held previous mark with 1,512 (717 rushing, 442 re-
Purdue 22 69 2 1 14 0 ceiving, 91 punt returns, 262 kickoff returns) in 1968 
Michigan State 22 60 I 3 62 1 Rushing Touchdowns: 17 in '84; tied Vagas Ferguson's previous Colorado 13 67 3 0 0 0
* 
Missouri 20' 62 0 2 15 0 Miami 13 57 0 3 18 0 
Career Air Force 22 76 0 2 29 0
. 
Rushing Yards: 4,131 (532 in 82, 1,394 in '83, 1,105 in '84, 1,100 mark set in '79 South Carolina 25 100 2 2 26 0 LSU 40 162 2 2 13 0
in '85); Vagas Ferguson held previous mark with 3,472 in 1976-79 Average Rushing Yards Per Game: 96.1 (4, 131 yards in 43 Navy 37 165 2 3 44 0
* 
games); George Qipp held previous mark with 86.7 (2,341 in 27) in Penn State 34 I89 4 1 36 0 1917-20 usc 27 98 I 0 0 0 
Rushing Attempts: 889 (107 in '82, 252 in '83, 275 in '84, 254 in

* TarAL 275 1,105 I7 19 257
'85); Vagas Ferguson held previous mark with 673 in 1973-76 
Average Rushing Attempts Per Game: 20.6 (889 in 43 games); Va­

* '84 Aloha Bowl 
gas Ferguson held previous mark with 16.4 (673 in 41) SMU 24 136 0 17
* 100-Yard Games: 21 (2 in '82, 9 in '83, 4 in '84, 6 in '85); Vagas Ferguson held previous mark with 13 in 1976-79 Touchdowns: 53 (6 in '82, 18 in both '83 and '84, 11 in '85); Red 1985
* 
Salmon held previous mark with 36 in 1900-03 

Michigan 22 89 0 2 29 0 
* 
Rushing Touchdowns: 49 (5 in '82, 16 in '83, I7 in '84, 11 in Michigan State 25 116 I 1 6 0 '85); Red Salmon held previous mark with 36 in 1900-03 

Purdue 2I 45 1 3 26 0 

* 
Points: 320 (36 in '82, 110 in '83, 108 in '84, 66 in '85); Red Air Force 31 142 1 1 5 0 Salmon held previous mark with 250 in 1900-03 Army 27 133 1 I 6 0 

* 
Points Responsible For: 326 (scored 320 points, passed for one usc 28 110 1 1 -4 0 TD); Joe Theismann held previous mark with 280 in 1968-70 


Navy 27 161 3 0 0 0 
* All-Purpose Yardage:· 5,259 (4, 131 rushing, 774 receiving, 354 
Mississippi 14 63 2 0 0 0 kickoff returns); Vagas Ferguson held previous mark with 3,838 in 
Penn State 12 61 0 1 4 0 1976-79 
LSU 30 103 0 4 24 0 Average All-Purpose Yards Per Game: 122.3 (5,259 in 43 games);
* 
Miami 18 77 1 3 39 0 George Gipp held_ previous mark with 113.5 (3.064 in 27) 

* 
Total Offense Attempts: 892; Joe Theismann held previous mark TarAL 255 1,100 11 17 135 0 with 807 in 1968-70 


54 
' • •"' r ' ' ' • .. ' • -' • • -• < • ~ 

Pinkett's 100-Yard Games NCAA Career Scoring Leaders 
Years TD PAT FG Pts. 

217 yards .................. . Penn State, 1983 (36 carries) 
1. Luis Zendejas, Ariz. St.... 1981-84 0 134 78 368 
197 yards .................. . Air Force, 1983 (27 carries) 
2. Tony Dorsett, Pittsburgh ... 1973-76 59 2 0 356 
189 yards .................. . Penn State, 1984 (34 carries) 
3. Glenn Davis, Army ....... 1943-46 59 0 0 354 
165 yards .................. . Navy, 1984 (37 carries) 
4. Kevin Butler, Georgia ..... 1981-84 0 122 77 353 
162 yards .................. . LSU, 1984 (40 carries) 
John Lee, UCLA......... 1982-85 0 116 79 353 
161 yards .................. . Navy, 1985 (27 carries) 
Max Zendejas, Arizona, ... 1982-85 0 122 77 353 
142 yards .................. . Air Force, 1985 (31 carries) 
7. Art Luppino, Arizona ..... 1953-56 49 49 0 337 
136 yards .................. . SMU, 1984 (24 carries) 
8. Steve Owens, Oklahoma ... 1967-69 56 0 0 336 
133 yards ..........._....... . Army, 1985 (27 carries) 
9. Wilford White, Ariz. St. ... 1947-50 48 27 4 327 
132 yards .................. . Army, 1983 (22 carries) 
10. ALLEN PINKETT •••••• 1982-85 53 2 0 320 
132 yards .................. . Colorado, 1983 (18 carries) 129 yards .................. . Navy, 1982 (27 carries) 122 yards ............ : ..... . USC, 1983 (21 carries) 

NCAA Career Rushing Leaders 
121 yards .................. . Navy, 1983 (29 carries) 
Years Att. Yards Avg.

116 yards ............ : ..... . Michigan State, 1985 (25 carries) 
1. Tony Dorsett, Pittsburgh . 1973-76 1074 6082 5.66
115 yards .................. . Purdue, 1983 (15 carries) * 114 yards .................. . South Carolina, 1983 (22 carries) * 2. Charles White, USC .... 1976-79 1023 5598 5.47 
3. Herschel Walker, Georgia 1980-82 994 5259 5.29
112 yards .................. . Pittsburgh, 1982 (10 carries) * 
4. Archie Griffin, Ohio State 1972-75 845 5177 6.13
111 yards .................. . Boston College, 1983 (28 carries) * 
5. George Rogers, South
110 yards .................. . USC, 1985 (28 carries) * 104 yards .................. . Michigan State, 1983 (25 carries) Carolina .................... 1977-80 902 4958 5.50 103 yards .................. . LSU, 1985 (30 carries) * 6. Mike Rozier, Nebraska .. 1981-83 668 4780 7.16 
7. Ed Marrinaro, Cornell... 1969-71 918 4715 5.14
100 yards .................. . South Carolina, 1984 (25 carries) 
* 8. Marcus Allen, USC ..... 1978-81 893 4682 5.24 
9. 
Ted Brown, North Caro­lina State ................... 1975-78 860 4602 5.35 

10. 
Terry Miller, Oklahoma



1985 Heisman Trophy Voting 5.41
State ....................... 1974-77 847 4582 
11. Eric Dickerson, SMU ... 1979-82 790 4450 5.63
Player 1st 2nd 3rd Total * 12. Earl Campbell, Texas .... 1974-77 765 4443 5.81
1. Bo Jackson, Auburn ........... . 317 218 122 1,509 
13. Amos Lawrence, North
2. Chuck Long, Iowa............. . 266 254 98 1,464 
Carolina .................... 1977-80 881 4391 4.98 
3. Robbie Bosco, BYU ........... . 38 95 155 459 
* 14. Bo Jackson, Auburn ..... 1982-85 650 4303 6.62 
4. Alonzo White, Michigan State ... . 50 63 115 391 15. Joe Morris, Syracuse .... 1978-81 813 4299 5.29
5. Vinny Testaverde, Miami ....... . 41 41 44 249 
16. Jerome Persell, Western
6. Jim Everett, Purdue ........... . 12 11 19 77 
Michigan ................... 1976-78 842 4190 4.98
7. Napoleon McCallum, Navy ..... . 8 11 26 72 
17. Napoleon McCallum,
8. ALLEN PINKETT •••••••••••• 9 13 18 71 
Navy....................... 1981-85 908 4179 4.60
9. Joe Dudek, Plymouth State ... : .. 12 4 12 56 
18. Curtis Adams, Central
10. Brian McClure, Bowling Green ... 7 10 13 54 
Michigan ................... 1981-84 761 4162 -5.47 
Thurman Thomas, Oklahoma State 1 13 25 54 
19. ALLEN PINKETT, NO­TRE DAME •••••••••••••••• 1982-84 889 4131 4.65 
20:. Robert Lavette, Georgia Tech ....................... 1981-84 914 4066 4.45 
* Reisman Trophy Winner 

NCAA Career Touchdown Leaders 
1. * Tony Dorsett, Pittsburgh, 1973-76 .......................59 
* Glenn Davis, Army 1943-46 ............................59 
3. 
* Steve Owens, Oklahoma, 1967-69 .......................56 

4. 
ALLEN PINKETT, NOTRE DAME, 1982-85 •••.••••••••53 Pete Johnson, Ohio State, 1973-76 .......................53 


6. Ed Marinaro, Cornell, 1969-71 .........................52 
* 
Herschel Walker, Georgia, 1980-82 ......................52 

* 
Mike Rozier, Nebraska, 1981-83 ........................52 


9. 
Ted Brown, North Carolina State, 1975-78 ................51 

10. 
Anthony Davis, USC, 1972-74 ..........................50 


* 
Billy Sims, Oklahoma, 1975-79 ...........·..............50 Dalton Hilliard, LSU, 1982-85 ..........................50 

* 
Reisman Trophy winner 






Profiling lou Holtz 
All He Wants to Do Is Coach 

By CHUCK FREEBY 
He is known as a quipster. 
He is known as an amateur magician. 

Now Lou Holtz wants to build another reputation. 
"I'd like to be known as a fundamental football coach and not for all the other things," says Holtz, who was given that chance November 27 when he was named the head football coach at Notre Dame. "What I want to do is function as coach in a quiet, non-controversial manner." 
Is this really Lou Holtz? Is this the man whose lines off the field were sometimes quicker than his lines on the field? Is this the same man who performed his magic act on "The Tonight Show"? 
Yes, it is. 

It is also the same man who told a slouching Irish football player at the team's first meeting to sit up straight or he might never play again. It is the same man who instituted 6: 15 a.m. offseason agility sessions for his team. It is the same Lou Holtz who believes in hard work and a commitment to excellence. 
"We have an awesome responsibility ahead of us, because Notre Dame has a reputation for excellence in everything it does," comments Holtz. "There's more responsibil­ity here than any other place where there is football. But I'm not a genius. I'm not a magician and I'm not a miracle worker . .J,'m just going to do the best job I can." 
Holtz is used to the work ethic. He has lived it since his childhood in East Liver­pool, Ohio, where he worked in a steel mill to pay his way through college. He lived it as an assistant coach, where he served for five different schools before landing his first head coaching job at William & Mary. And the work hasn't stopped for Holtz since becom­ing a head coach. 
"I had to make all the stops in my coaching career," notes the 48-year-old Holtz. "I started at the bottom as an assistant and got the job at William & Mary. Then I moved up the Atlantic Coast Conference and North Carolina State. Then I went from there to Arkansas and then to Minnesota. 
"There aren't many coaches who have had to go and make every stop. Some people are debonair, suave or great athletes, and their alma maters are going to take them back. My alma mater (Kent State) wouldn't even hire me." 
Notre Dame did hire him, however, and Holtz promises this will be the last stop in his coaching career. 
"This is a lifetime commitment," he states. "This is it. Contrary to what you think, I don't like to move." 
However, Holtz' work is not over. In fact, it has only just begun. He has a tremendous task ahead of him in trying to turn around the Irish football program, which struggled to a 5-6 record in 1985. Still, Holtz believes it can be done if his team follows the coach's philosophy. 
"Our program is going to be based on trust, commitment, generally caring and believing in people," notes Holtz. "You have to be trusted and you have to have people you can trust. You have to have a commitment to make your program the best it can be, and you have to believe it can be done. That's a philosophy I've carried most of my coaching career, and I'm not going to stop now." 
That starts with the Notre Dame athlete. On Monday after the Miami game, Holtz held his first team meeting and left im­pressed with the caliber of his players. 
"The number-one thing I'm pleased with is the intelligence of our athletes," comments 
.. . ' ·. ..' ~--~ . . ~ . . ~ " . . . . . . 
Holtz. "We gave them· all a questionnaire, and it's necessary to give some essay answers. This is the first time I've had to read any of the ~ssays with a dictionary." 
Holtz emphasizes the intelligence and character of the Notre Dame athletes cannot be minimized. Nevertheless, he also knows Notre Dame will' need some very talented players to win, and he believes the talent is there. 
''At Minnesota, our defense was very weak~ and we wanted to control the football with the option," recalls Holtz. "It was different and unique, and teams only had one week to prepare for it; With the excellent athletes we have, though, I have to believe we will not be an option team. That's not our best chance to win overall. 


,.,.The.·nu:mber~~n~. thing.·. I'm J)t~as.e4' · .w.ith::ls ·the intelli­gelic.e ': {)f; our·: a'th~. 
letes. '',;_ lDuHOli:z 
. :\' 


"We still have to be able to run and throw the football to be successful. I think the talent we have at the skill positions should be a positive factor for us here at Notre Dame. I can't really say how often we'll throw or run until I see the team, but we must do both well." 
Holtz has always been recognized as an excellent offensive coach, as he has been instrumental in developing the outstanding 
· collegiate careers of former Arkansas quarterback Ron Calcagni and current Minnesota star Rickey Foggie. Defense has been another matter, but Holz has come to Notre Dame with some definite ideas of how to improve the Irish. "It seems like we have some problems being able to rush the passer," notes Holtz, who is aware that the Irish only recorded 12 sacks in 1985 and return only four defensive linemen on scholarship for '86. "That's where the defense starts. You can do different things to stop the running game, but boy, it's tough to rush the passer without gambling unless you have some natural pass rushers." Still, the Irish will stay with their basic 3-4 defense. "We're going to face such a wide variety of offenses that it's important we have a flexible defense. I don't think you can be good defensively if you adjust every week." One adjustment Holtz will have to make is recruiting, where he has received most of his criticism. However, Holtz believes the criticism is unjustified, and he is willing and able to meet Notre. Dame's high academic standards for incoming athletes. "Notre Dame is· a great school to sell to an intelligent young man for academics and football," declares the veteran of 25 years of recruiting. "Sure you can only get one out of five athletes, but you have the advantage of showing a young man what he can do 

and the Golden Gophers of Minnesota. 
academically and what the school can do for him. I think that's a big plus. 
"I'm not willing to cheat to win. I've had a bum rap on recruiting, and it was never mentioned until I got to Arkansas. Nobody ever mentions that Arkansas has never been in an investigation by the Southwest Conference. Suffice it to say, I'm comfort­able with the talent in recruiting that myself and my staff have exhibited over the years." 
Recruiting will be critical to Notre Dame's success, as anyone who has looked at future schedules can tell you. If Holtz ever needs a depressant, he doesn't need to look any further than a 1986 schedule card. There he'll find home dates with Michigan, Purdue, Pittsburgh, Air Force, Southern Methodist and Penn State, as well as visits to Michigan State, Alabama, Navy, LSU and Southern Cal. With that kind of schedule awaiting him, Holtz isn't making any public promises about a win-loss record in 1986. 
"I saw the schedule and thought it was a misprint," cracks Holtz. "I don't like to think in terms of negatives, but that's possible unless six teams up and forfeit right now. Our schedule is a difficult one and I don't know about our football team. I just hope we can play to the best of our capabili­ties. . 
"We don't want to stay at 5-6, but I can't say we're going to go here or go there. The only think I'm concerned about is what direction we do go and how we're going to get there." 
No matter what direction the Irish move, 
''I saw.the sched­

., ule and. thought it was a ·misprint. 'I ·don't like to think in terms· of negatives, but-. that's .·possible unless ·six teams up and forfeit ·right now. Our schedule is a dif-· fictilt one and I don't . know about our fo()t­ball team. l just hope . we can play· to the best of our capabili­

ties~ '' 
-Lou Holtz 

Holtz knows he will be in the national 
spotlight. Notre Dame has always drawn 
more than its share of attention from fans 
and the media, and the new Irish coach 
knows it will be intensified in 1986. 
''A success is magnified, a loss is 

magnified, and our ability to keep that in the 
proper perspective in relationship to our 
players and their schooling is going to be of 
paramount importance if we're going to have 
success," states Holtz. "It isn't really · pressure on us, as much as it is a responsi­
1 bility. So many people around the country 
follow Notre Dame and identify with Notre 
Dame. That's an awesome responsibility that 
so many people are going to be up or down 
depending on whether you throw deep or 
throw an out-cut." 
That's the burden Lou Holtz has had cast 

upon him. Even he sometimes is unsure if he 
is ready for it. 
"It's hard to imagine myself sitting here," 

says Holtz, as he dined at a table in the 
University's Morris Inn in December. "I 
hope I'm adequately prepared to cope. But 
how you prepare for Notre Dame, I don't 
know. It's sort of on-the-job training." 
Holtz doesn't think the job will seriously 

change him, though. The quips will still 
come, and he might even perform an 
occasional magic trick for the squad. But 
Lou Holtz is serious -very serious -when 
he says one thing. 
"I didn't come to change Notre Dame ... 

and Notre Dame doesn't want to change me. 
All I want to do is coach football." 
Holtz Concludes Staff Assembly 
Three members of Notre Dame's previous staff, three members from the staff at Minnesota, three assistants from other programs, plus one former major­college head coach -those are the 10 individuals hired by new Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz to comprise the Irish staff for 1986. · 
From the December 9 announcement that Joe Yonto and George Kelly would be holdovers from the Notre Dame staff to the January 15 announcement that former LSU assistant Kurt Schottenheimer had been added to the list of Irish assistants, Holtz spent just over five weeks assem­bling his new staff. 
Holtz has tabbed former Pitt head coach Foge Fazio as his defensive coordinator -but he has no immediate plans to name an offensive coordinator. ­
Here's a brief synopsis of the back­grounds of Holtz' staff members: 
VINNY CERRATO -will split his duties between organizing Irish recruiting and working with quarterbacks . . . spent '85 season as recruiting coordinator under Holtz at Minnesota following two years as Gopher graduate assistant . . . 
graduate assistant at Iowa State in '81 after starting at flanker as junior and senior . . . joined Irish staff December 9. 
PETE CORDELL!-will coach Irish wide receivers . . . wide receiver coach at Minnesota under Holtz in '84 and '85 ... coached receivers under Holtz at Arkansas in '83 . . . Dallas Cowboys scout in '82 ... member of Memphis State staff in '80 ·and '81 . . . 32-year­old Blakely, Pa., native graduated from North Carolina State in '76 after playing quarterback for Wolfpack ... spent two years as grad assistant at Arkansas under Holtz and one as grad assistant at TCU . . . named to Irish staff Decem­ber 26. 
FOGE FAZIO-will coordinate Notre Dame defense and coach inside lineback­ers after compiling 25-18-3 record as head coach at Pittsburgh since '82 ... helped Panthers to Cotton and Fiesta Bowl bids his first two years on way to 9-3 and 8-3-1 seasons . . . took over at Pitt for Jackie Sherrill after coaching Panther defense to NCAA stat titles in both rushing defense and total defense in both '80 and '81 ... served as assistant at Boston University ('67, offensive line), Harvard ('68, defensive line), Cincinnati ('73-'76, defensive coordinator) plus two stops at Pitt ('69­
'72 as linebacker coach, '77-'81 as linebacker coach with last three years as defensive coordinator and assistant head coach) . . . 46-year-old Diamont, West Va., native graduated from Pitt in '60 after playing linebacke.r and center and earning team MVP award as senior starting _center . . . joined Irish staff December 26. 
TERRY FORBES-will coach Irish defensive backs . . . spent last four years as defensive coordinator and linebacker coach at Akron ... helped Zips to NCAA Division 1-AA playoff berth in '85 as well as top 10 rankings in total defense and scoring defense . . . served nine years as Ohio prep head coach-'80-'81 at Canton McKinley where he went 22-2, including 13-0 mark and Ohio state crown in '81; '77-'79 at Macedonia where he finished 26-2-2, and '73-'76 at Black River where he finished 


. ·~ ~-"' . . .. . . .. ~ .. ... . . ~ ' ' ~ ~ .... 
.. AlA. 


Cerrato Cordelli 22-5 his last three ·years . . . 37-year­old Cleveland native graduated from Hiram College in '70 after calling defensive signals as linebacker for four years . . . joined Irish staff December 16. GEORGE KELLY -will handle variety of on-and-off-the-field responsibil­ities on new Irish staff . . . Notre Dame's linebacker coach for last 17 years during tenures of Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine and Gerry Faust . . . coached long list of standouts led by consensus All-Americans Bob Golic and Bob Crable . . . came to Notre Dame in '69 following the eight years on Bob Deva­ney's staff at Nebraska ... helped Huskers rank first nationally in total defense in '63 and '67 . . . coached four years at Marquette starting in '57 ... 56-year-old Rockford, Ill. native graduated from Notre Dame in '53 after injury cut short his Irish playing career . . . spent two years at South Bend St. Joseph's High School before . moving to Marquette . . . retained December 9 as part of Holtz' new staff. KURT SCHOTTENHEIMER -will coach Irish outside linebackers . . . coached linebackers at LSU last two years, including All-American Michael Brooks ... helped Tigers to 8-3-1 and 9-2-1 marks in '84 and '85 ... spent '83 campaign on Thlane staff . . . at Michigan State from '78 to '82, first two years with defensive backs as grad assistant and last three years as outside linebacker coach . . . defensive coordinator at William Paterson in '74­'75 ... on staff at Ridgefield Park (N.J.) High School in '76-'77 ... 36­year-old McDonald, Pa., native was juco 




Fazio All-American quarterback at Coffeyville (Kan.) Junior College, then started two years as defensive back at Miami of Florida before graduating in '71 . . . brother Marty is Cleveland Browns head coach . . . joined Irish staff January 15. GEORGE STEWART-will coach Irish offensive line and tight ends . . . offensive line coach at Minnesota under Holtz in '84 and '85 ... grad assistant under Holtz at Arkansas in '83 ... 27-year-old Little Rock, Ark., native played for Holtz at Arkansas . . . earned three letters, captained '80 team as senior and earned all-league honors as junior . . . helped Hogs to bowl games all three years, including 9-2-1 and 10-2 marks as sophomore and junior . . . signed as free agent with Kansas City Chiefs but knee injury projected him into private business . . . joined Irish staff Decem­ber 30. MIKE STOCK -will coach Irish running backs . . . spent last three years on Notre Dame staff as receiver coach and recruiting coordinator . . . also served as offensive coordinator in '85 ... offensive backfield coach for USFL New Jersey Generals in '83 where he coached Herschel Walker . . . head coach at Eastern Michigan from '78­'82 ... offensive coordinator at Wisconsin in '75-'77 ... Irish assistant under Ara Parseghian from '69-'74, last five as receiver coach ... Navy receiver and offensive backfield coach in '68, Univ. of Buffalo freshman coach in '66-'67 . . . 46-year-old Barberton, Ohio, native was two-year captain as player under Parseghian at 





Forbes Kelly Northwestern all Big-Ten as fullback while leading 'Cats in rushing as junior and senior . . . won Big Ten medal of honor for acadeinic and athletic performance . . . named to staff on January 7. TONY YEWVICH-will coach Irish offensive linemen . . . offensive line coach at Stanford last two · seasons . . . also worked with offensive line at Thlane ('80-'83), Arizona ('77­'79), Cincinnati ('74-'76), Tennessee Tech ('71-'73), Northeast Missouri State ('69-'70) and Wichita State ('68) . . . 44-year-old Paoli, Pa., native graduated from Tampa in '64 after earning four letters as center and captaining team as senior . . . grad assistant at Tampa in '64 as well as defensive coordinator at Seminole High School in Orlando . . . coached ends, linebackers and centers at Parsons (Iowa) in '65-'66 ... joined Irish staff January 3. JOE YONTO -will coach Irish defensive line . . . has been special assistant to athletic director Gene Corrigan on Notre Dame staff for last five years while handling football administrative duties for Gerry Faust . . . spent 17 previous years as Irish defensive line coach under Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine after coming to Notre Dame with Ara in '64 ... Irish defensive coordinator from '77-'80 ... tutored 12 Irish All­Americans . . . 60-year-old Orrville, Ohio, native graduated from Notre Dame in '48 . . . coached at prep level in Indiana, Michigan and Illinois prior to joining Parseghian in '64 . . . retained on '86 Irish staff on December 9. 



r .;-,::£;·· ~ 
'l 


Schottenhcimer Stewart Stock Yelovich Yonto 
'86 Preview 


Could Be a Whole New Game 
By JOHN HEISLER Call it the most mysterious Notre Dame football team in more than 20 years. 

List the names of the 13 returning starters, then put asterisks next to them. For that matter, put question marks next to their positions. 
Take all the press clippings lauding individual past performances and throw them out the window. ·Thke all the old depth charts and position descriptions and toss them, too. 
There's liable to. be an entire new look for 
Fighting Irish football in 1986. 

What's behind all this prospective change? Begin by checking with new coach Lou Holtz and the seven new names on his lO­man staff of aides. They don't have all the answers yet, and they still may not have them by the time Michigan comes to town September 13 for the '86 season opener. But count on Holtz and his assistants to take a long, hard look at every prospective football player in the Irish camp. They'll look at the starters and they'll look at the reserves and they'll look at the reasons these players either did or did not contribute to Notre Dame's success (or lack thereof) the last couple of seasons. 
This certainly isn't the first time Notre 
Dame's football program has endured a 
coaching transition. But the in-with-the­
Holtz-era and out-with-the-Faust-era change 
figures to be a whole lot different than the 
last two. 
Remember back to 1981. When Gerry 
Faust took over, he inherited 16 starters 
(eight each on offense and defense) from a 
team that had finished 9-2-1 and played in 

the Sugar Bowl the previous year. Among the 
returnees in '81 were Bob Crable, Stacey 
Toran, Tom Thayer, ·Dave Duerson, Phil 
Pozderac, Tony Hunter, Larry Moriarty and 
Greg Bell -all of whom have advanced 
impressively in the professional football 
world. 
Remember back to 1975. When Dan 
Devine took over, he ~nherited eight starters 
(only two on offense) from a team that had 

finished 10-2 and won the Orange Bowl the Parseghian switch way back in 1964. He took a pretty good tackle in Dick 
previous year. Among the standouts in '75 _ Parseghian inherited only 16 totallet­Arrington and switched him to guard. He 
were defensive line starters Ross Browner, terwinners from a team that finished 2-7 the took a pretty good halfback in Joe Farrell 
Steve Niehaus, Jeff Weston and Willie Fry, previous year. He took a relatively unknown and switched him to fullback. He was smart 
along with Bob Golic, Luther Bradley, Jim senior quarterback in John Huarte (his enough to take a bunch of unproven sopho­· Browner, Al Hunter, Ernie Hughes -all of biography in the '64 Notre Dame Football mores (freshmen then weren't eligible for whom played professional football as well. Dope Book included more data on his high varsity football) and put them in his starting The backup quarterback was a sophomore school accomplishments than his Notre lineup. Those sophomores were people like named Joe Montana. You've probably heard Dame exploits) and turned him into a Alan Page, Jim Lynch, Nick Eddy, Kevin of him. Heisman Trophy winner. He took a relatively Hardy and Tom Regner -players who This '86 transition seems to compare unknown halfback in Jack Snow and turned would help Parseghian win a national favorably with the Hugh Devore-to-Ara him into an All-America split end. championship as seniors. 

What changes will Holtz make? Will there be multiple position switches, as there were when Ara took over? Who will move where and how well will it all work? 
All those questions remain premature. Yet, Holtz won't be quick to forget he is taking over a program that has won only four more games than it has lost over the last five years. He is inheriting a team that finished 5­6 in '85 and lost its last three games, two of them by one-sided margins. He is inheriting a team whose biggest wins in '85 were over a 6-6 USC team and over an Army team that finished its regular season by losing to Navy, something Notre Dame hasn't done in 22 seasons. He is inheriting a team that didn't win a road game in '85. 
Don't expect him to stand pat. And don't expect any gaudy pronouncements from Notre Dame's new head coach. He comes from the school of low-key promotion -in sharp contrast to his predecessor's 24-hour-a­day exuberance. 
When Holtz was asked about the possibil­ity of naming an offensive coordinator, he responded, "We just lost the all-time leading rusher and scorer in Notre Dame history, we've got a quarterback situation that was up in the air the last half of the season and every offensive lineman who started last year was a senior. We're going to need all the input we can get from every coach we've got on offense." 
Spring practice '86 likely will be a period 

of experimentation for Holtz and his new 
staff. In fact, the Irish began their spring 
season on March 14, several weeks earlier 
than usual. Holtz wanted to get in five 
practices prior to Notre Dame's combined 
·spring break/Easter vacation-so that-he 
would have 10 days to evaluate the early 
sessions before commencing drills again. 
Whatever changes are attempted, there are 
bound to be plenty of new faces offensively if 
only considering Notre Dame's graduation 
losses. Other than at the pass-receiving 
positions -where the Irish are knee deep in 
quality depth -there is plenty of rebuilding 
to do. 
The offensive line might rank as the most 
inexperienced area of the projected '86 Notre 
Dame team-since that was an all-senior 
area last fall. Lost to graduation are veterans 
Tim Scannell, Mike Perrino, Ron Plantz, 
Tom Doerger and Jay Underwood-a 
quintet that combined for more than 900 
minutes of playing time in '85. 
Fifth-year senior Shawn Heffern ranks as 
the only returning starter on the line, with 
three-time letter winner John Askin (another 
fifth-year senior who played behind Heffern 
at strong guard last year) next in seniority. 
Senior Tom Freeman, Sc~mnell 's backup in 
'85, is the only other returning monogram­
winner at guard. 
Senior Chuck Lanza is the logical candidate to take over at center, while the _most experienced hands at tackle are seniors 
Byron Spruell and Pete Rokich. One plus is that Faust's extensive use of his second offensive unit in '85 permitted Lanza, Rokich, Spruell, Askin and Freeman all to play 45 or more minutes. 
When it comes to the offensive line -and elsewhere on the team -don't forget Notre Dame's freshman class from a year ago. Eighteen of the 24 scholarship freshmen in '85 did not play a down (tight end Andy Heck, flanker Mark Green, tailback Corny Southall, defensive tackle Ted FitzGerald and defensive backs Aaron Robb and George Streeter were the only ones who did play). Four freshmen-tailback D'Juan Francisco, linebacker Ned Bolcar, offensive tackle 
Marty Lippincott and defensive ta-ckle B-ob Hodge-entered with Parade prep All­America credentials yet never played a down. 
That means there are plenty of untested 
rookies who'll get a chance to prove 
themselves in 1986. 
Of the 13 players who caught passes last season, the only two missing this fall are all­star Allen Pinkett and one-time walk-on Pat Cusack. That will bring a smile to the face of whomever plays quarterback for the Irish. 
Tight end features senior Tom Rehder and classmate Joel Williams along with sopho-. more Andy Heck (they combined for 22 catches for 305 yards and two TDs). The wide receiver berths can be filled by juniors Tim Brown, Reggie Ward and Tony Eason, as well as senior Alvin Miller, who has two 


Look for a good old-faShioned duel at quarterback between senior Steve Beuerlein (7) and junior Terry Andrysiak (2). The Irish have plenty of toughness returning at outside linebacker in starters Cedric Figaro (48) and Robert Banks (56). 

years of eligibility remaining if he chooses to use them. Milt Jackson re-enrolled for the spring semester and might be another possibility after missing all of 1985. Sophomore Mark Green could be yet another addition -but look for him to move back to tailback where he starred as a high school player. 
The tailback position-where Pinkett's name has been the only one Irish fans . needed to hear the last four years -takes on

i· 
something of a riches-to-rags look. It's tough enough to lose someone who scored 54 career touchdowns and gained 4,131 career rushing yards via three straight 1 ,000-yard seasons. Add to that the extremely question­able status of senior Alonzo Jefferson, who's still recovering from major knee surgery following the '85 opener at Michigan, and classmate Hiawatha Francisco, who's rebounding from January arthroscopic knee surgery that also revealed a serious arthritic condition in the joint. 
That could leave the glamour tailback spot to one of three sophomores -Green, Corny Southall (he carried six times for 24 yards as a rookie while playing in six games) or 
'D'Juan Francisco (he didn't play at all in '85). Without question, this will be a position battle to watch this spring. 
Three letterwinners return at fullback in junior Frank Starns, who started every game last fall, and seniors Tom Monahan and 
62 

Pernell Taylor. None of the three boasts . sprinter's speed, but all have contributed hard-nosed blocking to the Notre Dame attack. 
Probably the biggest and most important spring contest will be at quarterback. Holtz quickly assured the returning Irish signal callers· that he didn't think the current personnel merited a shift to option football -though most of his quarterbacks at Minnesota and Arkansas have been more.:. than-capable runners. 
The main priority of Notre Dame's new head coach is to make it plain that whoever ends up playing quarterback -senior Steve Beuerlein, junior Terry Andrysiak or sophomore Steve Belles-the Irish must get better production from that position than they did in 1985. 
Beuerlein, who admittedly never did hit top form last fall while working his way back from April shoulder surgery, possesses the experience of 29 starting assignments and the distinction of having completed more passes than any other quarterback in Notre Dame history. His goal is consistency and an improvement in his ratio of scoring passes to interceptions (14 to 37 through three years). 
Andrysiak had more than his share of bright moments -almost all of them off the bench-in '85, and his quick-footed rollout style offers a sharp contrast to Beuerlein's drop-back ways. If Holtz and his offensive coaches decide that a running threat is important for their quarterback, then Andrysiak will get a good look. 
Though he never played in a game, Belles quickly worked his way in as the number­three quarterback as a rookie thanks to his impressive throwing abilities. 
The kicking game again will make use of the legs of senior placekicker John Carney (he's in range of most every Irish career field-goal record) and walk-on senior punter Dan Sorensen, who owned a 40.7-yard average in '85. Notre Dame must improve its overall specialty team play after having two punts, three field goals and a PAT blocked in '85. 
Seven starters return on defense (compared to six on offense) for a unit that appears long on depth in the secondary and short on numbers up front. . 
A minimum of scholarship linemen are listed on the Notre Dame defensive roster, following the loss of Eric Dorsey, Greg Dingens and Mike Kiernan to graduation. Senior Wally Kleine is back after missing half his junior season with knee problems, while classmate Mike Griffin is bouncing back from sitting out the whole '85 cam­paign with <l broken ankle suffered in preseason drills. Juniors Jeff Kunz and Matt Dingens again figure to play prominent roles in the plans for '86. 
·Only captain Tony Furjanic is gone fro~ 
• • • ·-.....-• :. • ­
the inside linebacking crew. That still leaves senior Mike Kovaleski (the top returning tackler from '85 with 95 after leading the team as a sophomore in '84), fifth-year senior Ron Weissenhofer, plus senior Dave Butler and junior Wes Pritchett. Captain Mike Larkin leaves the outside linebacking group, but senior Robert Banks and junior Cedric Figaro return as regulars -with help from junior Darrell Gordon. 
The Irish defensive backfield is packed with seven returning letterwinners -with only strong safety Pat Ballage missing to graduation. Cornerback slots are in the capable hands of seniors Mike Haywood, Troy Wilson and Marv Spence, plus sophomore Aaron Robb and walk-on Chris Kvochak. At free safety will be senior Steve Lawrence, an honorable mention All­American who led the secondary with 92 tackles, five fumble recoveries and three interceptions. Ballage's strong safety slot could be filled by junior Brandy Wells or sophomore George Streeter. 
Overall, there are 44 lettermen returning against 15 lost, 13 starters returning against nine lost. 
In terms of statistics, the Irish return every player who threw a pass in '85, eight of the top nine rushers, 10 of the top 11 receivers, nine of the top 12 tacklers, the top punt, kickoff and interceptions returners -plus the top placekicker and punter. 
Every player who scored for Notre Dame 
• -• 
in '85 returns except for Pinkett (11 touchdowns) and Cusack (one two-point conversion). 
Could: there b~ an­oth-er John Huarte lurking somewhere­
.on the Irish roster? ·If there· is, look for Holtz to find him. Af­te~ all,.he has made-a career·of turning _pro­grams around. 

Yet, where all these players performed last year and how they performed in those roles may not mean as much with a new regime in place. 
Could there be another John Huarte lurking somewhere on the Irish roster? If there is, look for Holtz to find him. After all, he has made a career of turning pro­
• • .. 4 • ... 
grams around. 
When Holtz came to North Carolina State in 1972, the Wolfpack had won three games in each of the three previous seasons. In four years there, he averaged better than eight victories per season and took North Carolina to bowl games every season. 
When Holtz came to Arkansas in 1977, the Razorbacks were coming off a 5-5-1 campaign, the closest the Hogs had been to a losing season since 4-5-1 in 1967. His first Arkansas team went 10-2 and won the Orange Bowl-and he took the Hogs to bowl games for six straight seasons. 
When Holtz came to Minnesota in 1983, the Gophers had lost 17 straight Big Ten games. By midseason of his second year in '85, Minnesota stood 5-1 and found itself ranked in both wire-service polls. One Gopher player said the turnaround directed by Holtz was so complete that he felt like he had recovered from a dread disease. 
Back in 1966 when he was an assistant at South Carolina, Holtz made up a list of things he wanted to do before he died. There were 107 items on the list. 
"Some were insane, some were good," he remembers. "Some I've accomplished, like having dinner at the White House. Some, like a hole in one, I'm still waiting for." 
By 1982, the scoreboard read 72 down, 35 to go. 
Figure success as head coach at Notre Dame just might be one left on the list. 


'85 Notre Dame Statistics· 
Won 5, Lost 6 (Home 5-l, Away 0-5) 
TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP RUSHING••• G TC Yds Avg TD LG INTERCEPTION RETURNS Total Offense Yards . . . . . . . . . . . 3680 3880 Pinkett ..... . 11 255 1100 4.3 11 43 No Yds Avg TD LG Total Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 761 810 H. Francisco . 11 60 252 4.2 3 16 Lawrence.... *4 *136 34.0 0 . 79 Yards Pe~ Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.8 4.8 Starns ...... . 11 44 164 3.7 3 23 Ballage...... 2 35 17.5 0 35 Yards Per Game . . . . . . . . . . . . 334.5 352.7 Monahan ... . 11 27 93 3.4 0 14 Haywood . . . . 2 25 12.5 0 25 
Rushing Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1803 1741 Green ...... . 10 5 64 12.8 0 40 Spence . . . . . . 1 13 13.0 0 13 Attempts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 483 493 Andrysiak .. . 9 23 50 2.2 0 18 Wilson . . . . . . 1 0 0.0 0 0 Yards Per Rush. . . . . . . . . . . . . 3. 7 3.5 Taylor ...... . 11 7 37 5.3 1 18 Yards Per Game............ 163.9 158.3 Brown...... . 10 4 30 7.5 1 18 Notre Dame.. *10 *209 20.9 0 79 
Passing Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877 2139 Southall .... . 6 6 24 4.0 1 8 Opponent . . . . 14 247 17.6 2 61 
Attempts.................. 277 317 Carter ...... . 4 5 8 1.6 0 3 * includes one 79-yd. fumble return Completions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142 179 Jefferson .... . 1 2 7 3.5 0 6 Had Intercepted . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 9 Byrne ...... . 3 2 -7 -3.5 0 0 TACKLES S FH A *TOT Sacks TL-Y ds Comp. Percentage . . . . . . . . . . .513 . 565 Beuerlein ... . 11 43 -19 -0.4 1 16 Furjanic ..... 35 57 55 147 2-7 Touchdown Passes . . . . . . . . . . 6 8 Kovaleski . . . . 20 27 48 95 2-20 Yards Per Attempt . . . . . . . . . . 6.8 6.7 Notre Dame .. 11 483 1803 3.7 21 43 Lawrence . . . . 27 31 34 92 2-7 Yards Per Comp. . . . . . . . . . . . 13.2 11.9 Opponent .... 11 493 1741 3.5 14 39 Dorsey . . . . . . 29 24 34 87 3-15 15-73 Yards Per Game . . . . . . . . . . . . 170.6 194.5 Figaro....... 17 22 23 62 2-5 
Punting Yards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2342 1734 Wilson ...... 19 16 22 57 4-10 
PASSING • • • G No Comp Pet Int YdsTD
Number of Punts........... 61 45 Ballage ...... 16 15 26 57 1-3
Beuerlein.... 11 214 107 .500 13 1335 3
Average Punt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38.4 38.5 Banks ....... 11 18 21 50 1-13 3-15
Andrysiak . . . 9 61 35 .574 I 542 3
Had Blocked. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 Haywood .... I8 13 17 48 I-3 2-6 
Byrne . . . . . . . 3 I 0 0.000 0 0 0
Punt Return Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . 185 193 Weissenhofer . 9 18 14 41 1-7 
Von Wyl. . . . . 7 I 0 0.000 0 0 0
Number of Returns . . . . . . . . . 22 32 Spence ...... I3 15 13 41 Average Return. . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.4 6.0 Kunz........ I5 12 13 40 I-7 5-23
NotreDame .. 11277 142 .513 141877 6 
Kickoff Return Yards. . . . . . . . . . 656 327 Larkin ...... IO 7 23 40 ~ 3-6
Opponent.... 11 317 179 .565 9 2139 8 
Number of Returns . . . . . . . . . 35 16 Kleine....... 11 15 10 36 5-21 6-25 Average Return............. 18.7 20.4 M. Dingens . . 1 10 13 24 I-I 
Interception Return Yards . . . . . . *209 247 RECEIVING G PC Yds Avg TD LG Butler . . . . . . . 9 7 7 23 Number of Interceptions . . . . . *10 14 Brown...... . 10 25 397 I5.9 3 49 Wells . . . . . . . 10 3 7 20 Average Return. . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.9 17.6 Ward ....... . II 24 355 I4.8 0 34 Kiernan . . . . . 3 10 7 20 1-1 
Number of Penalties . . . . . . . . . . 68 45 Pinkett ..... . 11 17 135 7.9 0 29 DiBernardo . . 4 3 II 18 Penalty Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603 340 Starns ...... . 11 I4 100 7.I 0 25 G. Dingens... 4 5 6 15 1-5 Fumbles(Lost) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19(9) 33(16) Miller. ..... . 10 I3 2I9 I6.8 0 39 Pritchett. . . . . 3 4 8 15 Yards Returned. . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 Rehder ..... . . II 13 I82 14.0 1 28 Gordon...... 2 2 6 10 1-4 2-9 
Total First Downs . . . . . . . . . . . . 205 223 Eason .... ·; .. II II 172 15.6 1 33 Martz....... 0 0 6 6 By Rushing................ 101 97 Green ...... . 10 9 116 12.9 0 29 K vochak . . . . . 2 0 3 5 By Passing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 109 Williams .... ; 11 5 63 12.6 1 19 McCabe . . . . . 1 0 2 3 By Penalty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 17 Heck....... . 10 4 60 I5.0 0 23 Southall . . . . . 2 0 1 3 Third Down Conversions . . . . . . 64/161 55/160 H. Francisco . II 3 41 13.7 0 27 Streeter. . . . . . 2 0 I 3 Percentage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .398 .344 Cusack ..... . 6 2 33 16.5 0 19 McGuffey. . . . 2 0 0 2 Possession Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320:24 339:36 Monahan ... . II 2 4 2.0 0 6 Harris....... 1 1 0 2 Minutes Per Game. . . . . . . . . . 29:08 30.52 Sorensen. . . . . 2 0 0 2 
* includes one 79-yd. fumble return Notre Dame.. 11 I42 I877 13.2 6 49 Robb ........ 0 0 1 1 · Opponent.... 11 179 2139 11.9 8 45 Cooney . . . . . . 0 1 0 I SCORE BY QUARTERS Cusack . . . . . . 0 0 1 1 Notre Dame ....... 51 69 47 63-230 Seasly. . . . . . . I 0 0 1 Opponent. . . . . . . . . . 41 63 56 74-234 PUNTING G No Yds Avg LP Grieb....... 0 0 1 I Sorensen.... . 11 58 2329 40.2 57 Yon Wyl. . . . . 1 0 0 1 
TEAM SCORING ND OPP Von Wyl. ... . 7 1 13 13.0 13 *Total tackles =solos + first hits + assists Total Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230 234 
Team ...... . 11 2 0 0.0 0 Average.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.9 21.3 
Notre Dame .. 11 61 2342 38.4 57 
. Touchdowns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 26 Fumbles Caused: Dorsey 3, Kovaleski 2, Law­
Opponent .... 11 45 1734 38.5 59
By Rushing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 14 rence 2, Ballage 2, Kleine 2, Streeter 1, Figaro 1, By Passing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 8 Wilson 1, Banks 1, Weissenhofer 1, Kunz 1, Di-· By Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 Bernardo 1 , Pritchett 1 . 
PUNT RETURNS
By Recovery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Fumbles Recovered: Lawrence 5, Dorsey 2,
No Yds Avg TD LG
Field Goals (Made-Att)........ 13/22 17/27 Spence 2, Wilson 1, Ballage 1, Weissenhofer 1, M.
Wilson...... 17 144 8.5 0 35
Safeties..................... 0 0 Dingens 1, DiBernardo 1, Pritchett 1
Cusack...... 5 41 8.2 0 19
PAT-Kick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21/25 25/25 Passes Broken Up: Wilson 9, Spence 7, Furjanic PAT-Run . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 010 5, Haywood 4, Lawrence 4, Ballage 3, Kovaleski 2,
I/1 Notre Dame. . 22 185 8.4 0 35 
PAT-Pass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1/3 010 Opponent . . . . 32 193 6.0 0 29 Figaro 2, Larkin 1, M. Dingens 1, Wells 1, Stree­
ter 1 , Robb 1. SCORING • G TD Pat R-PA S FG TP Pinkett ..... 11 11 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 66 KICKOFF RETURNS Carney. . . . . 11 0 21/24 010 0 13/22 60 No Yds Avg TD LG SCOREBOARD Brown ..... 10 5 01 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 30 Brown. . . . . . . 14 338 24.1 . 1 93 Sep. 14 at Michigan ...........L 12-20 ·105,523(C) Starns...... 11 3 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 18 Milller...... 12 239 19.9 0 30 Sep. 21 MICHIGAN STATE ....W 27-10 59,075(C) 
H. Francisco 11 3 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 18 H. Francisco . 2 34 17.0 0 18 Sep. 28 at Purdue .............L 17-35 69,338(C) Eason . . . . . 11 I 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 6 Green . . . . . . . 2 29 14.5 0 17 Oct. 5 at Air Force ...........L 15-21 52, 153(C) Taylor . . . . . 11 1 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 6 Starns . . . . . . . 2 11 5.5 0 7 Oct. 19 ARMY ...............W 24-10 59,075(C) Beuerlein. . . 11 1 0/ 0 0/1 0 01 0 6 Jefferson..... 1 5 5.0 0 5 Oct. 26 USC .................W 37-3 59,075(C) Williams . . . 11 1 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 6 Monahan . . . . I 0 0.0 0 0 Nov. 2 NAVY ...............W 41-17 59,075(C) Southall. . . . 6 1 0/ 0 010 0 0/ 0 6 Rehder . . . . . . 1 0 0.0 0 0 Nov. 9 MISSISSIPPI. •........W 37-14 59,075(C) 
Rehder. . . . . 11 1 0/ 0 010 0 01 0 6 Nov. 16 at Penn State ..........L 6-36 84,000(C) Cusack . . . . 6 0 01 0 1/1 0 01 0 2 Notre Dame .. 35 . 656 18.7 1 93 Nov. 23 LSU ............. .'...L 7-10 59,075(C) Andrysiak . . 9 0 01 0 011 0 0/ 0 0 Opponent .... 16 327 20.4 0 49 Nov. 30 at Miami .............L 7-58 49,236 Von Wyl . . . 7 0 01 1 010 0 01 0 0 
Notre Dame ll 28 21/25 1/3 0 13/22 230 Opponent . . I1 26 25/25 1/1 0 17/27 234 
64 

• ~ ' ....--~-• • < • • ~ , • -• • " • ~ J J' • ..... .. 
'85 Game-by-Game Stats 
Rushing Pinkett Stams Francisco Monahan Beuerlein Notre Dame Opponents 
Game TC-Yds-TD TC-Yds.-TD TC-Yds.-TD TC-Yds-TD TC-Yds-TD TC-Yds-TD TC-Yds-TD 
Michigan Mich. State  22­89-0 25-116-1  5-13-0 6-26-1  0­0-0 5-17-0  0-0-0 2-7-0  9-(-19)-0 2­0-0  39­97-0 43­182-2  52-251-2 49-168-1  
Purdue  21­45-1  2­ 5-0  3-11-1  1-4-0  8-(-25)-0  41­56-2  37-114-1  
Air Force Army  31-142-1 27-133-1  6-34-0 4-15-0  1­2-0 8-37-0  0-0-0 6-8-0  4-(-7)-0 4­10 -0  43­173-1 51-207-2  49-270-0 62-196-1  
usc  28-110-1  4-31-1  10-57-0  4-14-0  2­3 -1  49-217-3  34-102-0  
Navy  27-161-3  5­18-1  5-34-1  4-21-0  1-(-5)-0  56-314-5  38-142-2  
Ole Miss  14­63-2  5­ 6-0  12-43-0  5-18-0  1­2 -0  48­163-3  45-128-1  
Penn State  12­61-0  3-13-0  3­ 5-1  1-0-0  4-(-4)-0  29­90-1  59-169-2  
LSU  30-103-0  3­ 3-0  5-13-0  0-0-0  4­21 -0  43­158-1  31­66-1  
Miami  18­ 77­1  1­ 0-0  8-33-0  4-21-0  4­ 5-0  41-146-1  37-135-1  
Total  255-1100-11  44-164-3  60-252-3  27-93-0  43-(-19)-1  483-1803-21  493-1741-14  
Passing  Beuerlein  Andrysiak  Notre Dame  Opponent  
Game  A-C-1-Yds.-TD  A-C-1-Y ds.-TO  A-C-1-Yds.-TD  A-C-1-Yds.TD  

Michigan  23-11-1­ 160-0  DNP  23­11-1­ 160~  17­7-0­ 74-0  
Mich. State  27-15-2-217-1  2-0-0­ 0-0  29­15-2-217-1  17­4-2­ 55-0  
Purdue  25­7-1­ 88-0  8-5-l-73-0  33-12-2­ 161~  49-27-1-368-3  
Air Force  36-20-1-223-0  DNP  36-20-1-223~  20-11-1-142-1  
Army  20-12-0­ 186-1  0-0-0­ 0-0  20­12-0-186-1  10­5-0­ 98-0  
usc  14­7-1­ 82-0  3-3-0-36-1  17-10-1­ 118-1  42-25-1-244-0  
Navy  6­ 3-1­ 35-0  17-11-0-195-1  23­14-1-230-1  42-26-2-246-0  
Ole Miss  8­ 5-0­ 60-1  8-4-0-60-1  17­9-0­ 120-2  24-11-1­ 93-1  
Penn State  19-10-3­ 94-0  5-3-0-39-0  25­13-3­ 133-0  18­7-0-126-1  
LSU  25-11-2­ 106-0  5-3-0-30-0  30-14-2-136-0  42-31-1-294-0  
Miami  11­6­1­ 84-0  13-6-0-109-0  24­12-1­193-0  36-25-0-399-3  
Total  214-107-13-1335-3  61-35-1-542-3  277-142-14-1877-6  317-179-9-2139-8  
Receiving  Brown  Ward  Miller  Pinkett  Rehder  Stams  Eason  
Game  TC-Yds.-TD  TC-Yds.-TD  TC-Yds.TD  TC-Yds.TD  TC-Yds.-TD  TC-Yds.-TD  TC-Yds.-TD  

Michigan  2-32-0  2-37-0  1NJ  2-29-0  1­ 14-0  1­ 3-0  1-11-0  
Mich. State  4-88-0  5-64-0  0­ 0-0  1­ 6-0  1-11-0  1­ 4-0  2-25-1  
Purdue  3-30-0  0­ 0-0  1­ 9-0  3-26-0  0­ 0-0  0­ 0-0  2-50-0  
Air Force  1NJ  4-57-0  4-51-0  1­ 5-0  0­ 0-0  4-34-0  1-15-0  
Army  2-29-1  2-37-0  3-74-0  1­ 6-0  2-21-0  1­ 7-0  0­ 0-0  
usc  0­ 0-0  1-14-0  1-12-0  1-(-4)-0  2-37-0  1­ 15-0  0­ 0-0  
Navy  5-111-1  3-48-0  1-14-0  0­ 0-0  2-21-0  0­ 0-0  2--27-0  
Ole Miss  3-41-1  1­ 14-0  1-20-0  0­ 0-0  2-29-1  1­ 7-0  1­ 9-0  
Penn State  3-33-0  2-14-0  0­ 0-0  1­ 4-0  2-32-0  2-11-0  1-14-0  
LSU  3-33-0  1-17-0  1-16-0  4-24-0  1-17-0  2-11-0  0­ 0-0  
Miami  0­ 0-0  3-53-0  1-23-0  3-39-0  0­ 0-0  1­ 8-0  1-21-0  
Total  25-397-3  24-355-0  13-219-0  17-135-0  13-182-1  14-100-0  11-172-1  
k G)'tot  
(ft ~ ....,.:a: (J ~  u... = ca"C' = ~  ... ~ fl) G)-ca ~ ~  =... ~ k j  fl) ~ = ca =  Q k ca ...= ~  G) =ca--ca =  = Q fl)...-~  ::;1\ G) fl) k Q Q  Q ..:: = G) fl) fl)... ~  "= Q Q ~ ca =  G) u = G) k :t j  G) u = G) =­fiJ  N = =::.::  G) =... G)-::.::  fl) = G) = =... Q ~  k G) .... -= =  fl)--~  = ca =k G)... ::.::  
Michigan  11  8  10  4  3  6  4  9  2  0  10  3  1  5  0  0  0  2  
Mich. State  13  12  6  4  7  6  3  11  0  4  5  0  0  5  2  0  2  0  
Purdue  17  12  1NJ  4  4  7  7  .6  3  5  8  2  0  6  3  5  1  1  
Air Force  9  1  1NJ  7  1  7  12  4  8  0  8  6  0  9  1  1  7  1  
Army  18  1NJ  0  4  4  6  4  10  8  4  9  1  9  1NJ  3  0  3  4  
usc  17  9  6  6  6  3  5  11  4  5  14  5  5  1NJ  1  1  0  1  
Navy  12  19  1  5  9  5  3  5  6  3  6  5  7  1NJ  1  5  0  6  
Ole Miss  9  6  2  4  6  3  4  8  4  6  4  3  4  1NJ  7  4  4  0  
Penn State  17  11  8  2  8  2  5  6  3  5  12  2  8  1  3  2  0  3  
LSU  15  11  6  8  6  7  5  8  0  8  9  8  6  3  2  2  0  0  
Miami  9  6  1  2  8  5  5  9  3  8  7  5  0  7  1  3  3  2  
Total  147  95  40  50  62  57  57  87  41  48  92  41  40  36  24  23  20  20  


Head coach Gerry Faust with the '85 Irish captains-offensive guard Tim Scannell (54), tailback Allen Pinkett (20), outside linebacker Mike Larkin (42) and Inside linebacker Tony Furjanic (58). 



The present he'llopeneveryday. 
Good things come in Amity packages. Uncompromising quality. Rich, supple leathers. And fastidious attention . to detail. 
Amity. It's better to give. And receive. 
· ..... '! 
·· .... 
Unexcelledquality atunexpectedprices. 
Shown: Executive Billfold in California Saddle Leather;"available in brown, tan or burgundy. 01984 Amity Leather Products Company West Bend, Wisconsin 53095 

