m^Mi-^: 
CSZ-­
.m^: 
ITiS^ -. ­
'\w
m^ 
1*5-. 
* r
mM&\ 
h 
kV:^­
:^ 
rrnnrjnrBTrBTrinroTnnnnR ^aiflipiij^^hdp rrnrinrrnr(nrsTir^n^T(nrinnnr^^ 
To the players for their spirit .... 
o 
to the coaches for their leadership . . . to the student body for their support . . . we say: 


CONGRATULATIONS 
on the 1965 football season! 
t 
> The EXCLUSIVE Campus Shop Way to Buy . . . 
remember . . . you wear and enjoy your new apparel now; you pay: 
ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD in June in July in August '66 
?i 
never a service or carrying charge 
SJUIJL9 g.Q.g.gJ.OJ-0.flJ.0J L9.9-0-9J.<L9-gJI>-gJ>.9 g 0 P g 0 QJIAJG 
GILBERT'S 




lampu^&ihop' ST 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
yfl"o"afl'o 0 fl flflflodaaa oTOTa'o aa'o o'aa'a <u 
Famous names mean quality. Quality means satisfaction! 
It has been, and always will be, the policy of your Campus Shop to stock only brand name apparel for your selection; names such as Gant in shirts . . . Bass Weejun in shoes . . . Bernard Altmann in sweaters . . . London Fog in topcoats and rainwear . . . and many others. We invite you to stop in and browse for your gifting . . . these famous names will surely please any man who is "gifted" with them. 
We wish you Happy Holidays! 
I 
% 
o 
o 
z 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
I 
o 
o 
t 
I 
Efl.<UL9J»,flJLff.g.g.<L9.Q.ff.ftJ.0.g.0J .ff-0.O-9.0.g-0-<UL9.gJ>.9.0.<L9J>,tt.<LE 


GILBERT'S 
'ampu$i)hop' 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
because now you can 
complete Air Force ROTC in 

just half the time! 
Are you interested in starting a military career 
while in college—but afraid it will cut too deeply 
into your schedule? 
Well, here's good news for you. Air Force ROTC now offers a 2-year program. You can start it any time you have 2 years of higher edu­cation remaining—whether on the undergradu­ate or graduate level. 
Here's another good thing about this pro­gram: you get a chance to "sample" Air Force life before you sign up. During a special sum­mer orientation session, you get to make up your mind about the Air Force, and the Air Force gets to make up its mind about you. Only when both are satisfied are youfinally enrolled in the program. 

You'll learn a lot in Air Force ROTC. The curriculum has been completely revamped. The accent is on aerospace research and develop­ment. But of course the classes are only the beginning. The important thing is that you'll be taking the first big step toward a profession of great responsibility, as a leader on America's Aerospace Team. 
Find out more about the new Air Force ROTC program. See the Professor of Aero­space Studies today! 

United States Air Force 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Notre Dame Scholastic Dec. 70, 1965 Vol. 107, No. 10 
THE LETTER 11 
Michigan State Athletic Director "Biggie" Munn commends the Notre Dame student body on its exemplary behavior 
THE VIEW 12 
From the quick start in California to the disappointing tie in Florida . . . the season in perspective by editor Tom Bettag 
THE SEASON 15 
A game-by-game account by those who watched Notre 
Dame most closely, the noted columnists from all parts of 
the country 
THE TEAM 29 
The offense, the defense, linemen and backs . . . those few 
who did so much to help maintain Notre Dame's national prestige 
THE PLAIHER 36 
A view of the varied ingredients of the Notre Dame football player ... passing recognition for a very special kind of man 
THEJVIAN 38 
A team with no individual stars, but each a star in his own right . . . a letter from California and a senior's final story 
THE SPHIIT 40 
A pictorial essay of the famed Notre Dame spirit . . . and some telling remarks by its benefactors, the players and 
coaches 
THE TRIBUTE 42 
A sports publicity director and much more . . . a man re­spected as great in his field, outstanding as a true Notre Dame man 
THE STATISTICS 43 
A great football season is not without its own emotions and personalities, but when these have gone, the figures reveal 
editor-in-chief 
TOM BETTAG 
associate editor 
SKIP MYSLENSKI 
staff 
STEVE ANDERSON MIKE BRADLEY 
DICK CONNELLY JAMIE MCKENNA 
layout editor 
MIKE SEEBBRT 
business manager 
JOB KAMINSKI 
photography FRANK J. CLARKE MIKE FORD TIM FORD BOB SIMPSON ERNESTO SOL TED STRANSKY LT. J. T. WOLKERSTORFER 
42m 

The Football Review is a regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the SCHOLASTIC is accepted for mail­ing at a special postage rate author­
ized June 23, 1918. 
Re-write the books! 


NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A Special Gift — Reserved for Specia/ People 
BUFF TOP _ FACETH3 STONE .'-r--/^, \ STONE SET . ^ ^^.-r A SET 
•^^ 
—ij-^

REGULAR CONTOUR 
BAND BAND 
TOP VIEW 

• FACETED STONE SET RING 
SAPPHIRE CENTER DIAMOND DtAftOlMD'OyAL CLUSTER 
TOP VIEW RIN© TOP VIEW RING 
"The Ideal Christmas Gift" 
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
• * • 
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS —1965-66 
All rings are in durable lOK Gold 
Black Onyx $20.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, bufp top, faceted back 20.00 All-diamond cluster $165.00 Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 20.00 Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back 20.00 synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center.. 100.00 
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back 20.00 WEDDING BANDS 
Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue 20.00 Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular 510.00 No. 1, bufF top, faceted back 20.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour— 11.00 Synthetic "Notre Dame" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular 13.00 No. 2, faceted top and back 20.00 Man's, plain or beaded, Contour 14.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any bufif top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. 
Ring Size For Measuring Finger 
Order Now For CArisffnas {^^Wv^ry
3456789 1011 

ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
1. What's die picture? 2. \\^iat do you see as far as girls are concerned? 
I see before you 
a career in Operations I see you using the 
Research. techniques of simulation 
and systems analysis to solve on-going problems. 

•
 The Paulist Father is a modern man in every sense of the word. He is a man of this age, cognizant of the needs of modern men. He is free from stifling formalism, is a pioneer in using contemporary ways to work with, for and among 100 million non-Catholic Amer­icans. He is a missionary to his own people—the American people. He utilizes modern techniques to ful­fill his mission, is encouraged to call upon his own Innate talents to help further his dedicated goal. 

•
 If the vital spark of serving God through man has been ignited in you, why not pursue an Investiga­tion of your life as a priest? The Paulist Fathers have developed an aptitude test for the modern man interested in devoting his life to God. This can be a vital instrument to help you make the most impor­tant decision of your life. Write for it today. 


NATIONAL VOCATIONS DIRECTOR PAULIST FATHERS 415 WEST 59th STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019 
3. See anything about securities 4. Notliing about stocks and analysis? That's tlie field I bonds or high finance? planned on going into. 
I see a great future I see you pioneering for you in Operations in real time management Research at Equitable. infomiation configuration. 
5. How about that! At Equitable 6. What does it reveal about money? tliey said they saw a great future for me witli tliem in You crossing my palm investment management. with silver. 
The crystal ball reveals a great future eitlier way. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement OflBcer, or write to Patrick Scollard, Manpower Development Division. 
The EQUITABIE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 © Equitable 1965 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
It frags, fishes, cha cha's, bossa nova's, monkeys, merengues, even twists without a wrinlde. 
An Arrow Decton will look just as fresh on the last dance as it did on the first. 
Decton is Arrow's blend of 65% Dacron and 35% cotton that frustrates wrinkles. A wash-and-wear that needs only a little touching up. Available in solid or stripe styles. Neat tabber snap collar (as shown) or classic button down. $6.95. Bold New Breed by 
-ARROW­

k^$^$m
.^^•^ 
,f.vn fi^/x 
'••...»^r" 

during vacation come in and browse...  
OUR  UNIVERSITY  SHOP  
good-looking suits and sportwear  .>s«'k^^^^  
for undergraduates, in sizes 36 to 44  
We have a comprehensive and distinctive selection  m  
of clothing and furnishings in our Universitj' Shop, specially designed for undergraduates. Included  J^*  yi>  
among our 3-piece suits are worsted flannels, sport  
models in worsted cheviot, unfinished worsteds in  
herringbones...and interesting  new  designs and  
colorings in  tweed  sport jackets...all  reflecting  
Brooks styling and good taste.  
Suits, $85 to $95 • Tweed  Sfort  Jackets,  $50 aiid $60  
Tweed  Topcoats, from  $90 * Flatmel  Blazers,  $55  
Our  Warjii Outerwear,  jroj7i$ZS  
Prices slightly higher  west of the Rockies.  "N  
A"^:.  
-:i  
I'm  

"^Mk
•,'^.v 
^&. 
fs? 
•\~i.t4»S! 

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY EAST LANSING 
OBSIOB OS IHB SStSCTOS DBPAalMBN'r OS INTBHCOIXBGIATB ATHLBTICS, HBAIXH, fSratCAZ. SBIICATION ASD HBCHHATION FOa MEN AND TFOMBIT 
November 26, 1965 
Student Newspaper The Scholastic Notre Dame University South Bend, Indiana 
Gentlemen: 

Let me sincerely congratulate the students on their superb behavior at the Michigan State-Notre Dame Game. 
I have been connected with games between Michigan State and Notre Dame from 1948 through 1952 as Head Football Coach and as Director of Athletics from 1954 on and the re­lationship with Notre Dame University has been tremendous, in fact. Director Krause and I have scheduled games for Michigan State-Notre Dame through 1974, I do hope that we will be able to carry on this fine relationship for many, many years to come. 
Again congratulations - what a game 
iaUy,. 
iggie"^I!uhn Athlelzic Director 
CLMrdm 

ARA, DESIRE, SPIRIT 
When you have a coach like Ara, players like Rassas and Arrington, and a student body that thinks heaven is beat­ing Southern California and the end of the world is a loss to IVISU, then you have a team - by TOM BETTAG 
B
Y THE TIME of the North Carolina game, you found yourself with the feeling that though this team might not be the best in the nation, it could beat any team in the nation. 
Sure, it had been beaten by Purdue, but that was against a quarterback who was too hot to be touched by anyone that day. And of course there had been many scares. North­western, Navy, North Carolina. But you had also seen this team rip thr-ough CaUfornia and Pittsburgh. And bring itself real honor against Southern California. 
Most of all you had confidence in the coach, Ara Parseghian. It was good to have him, his strategy, his psychology and enthusiasm on your side. And there were the individ­ual team members whom you had come to know for their dedication and determination. And you found yourself believing strongly in the magical powers of the "Notre Dame spirit" that you had seen manifested so fully through the week leading up to the Southern California game. 
Then came Michigan State and Miami. 12-3. 0-0. All your en­thusiasm seemed to have been mere idealism destroyed by the hard re­alities of football fundamentals. 
For a little while, the disappoint­ment of the moment blurred the overall success of the season. But at no time did the belief in Ara, the team, the spirit of the school fade. 

As one old fan commented as he slowly made his way out of the Orange Bowl: "I'm glad the season is over. It's been a hard one to see through. I'm just happy Parseghian was running the team and making the decisions. With him I'm sure we couldn't have done any more than we did." 
P
ERHAPS the single most impor­tant factor in the season was the graduation of John Huarte and Jack Snow in June. But how could anyone know that at the beginning of the season? Ara had bemoaned his troubles at the "skilled posi­tions." But who could have known after the varsity beat the Old-Timers 72-0? 
Notre Dame followers have not established a reputation for pessi­mism, and a 48-6 opening day win over California did nothing for their sense of restraint. The game was a tribute to Ara. Given only 18 days to prepare the team for the early opener, he sent a team to Berkeley that made no mistakes of its own and capitalized on every Cal error. Given a team that had neither the ends nor the quarterback for a wide-open passing attack, he moulded an offense capable of rolling up 381 yards rushing in that one game. 
As far as the papers were con­cerned, Notre Dame had merely picked up where it left off before. The Irish were I'anked number one. 
It takes a great passer to com­plete 19 of 22. Bob Griese is great. The offense had done its job by racking up 21 points against a stiff Purdue defense. The Notre Dame defense could hardly be blamed for not stopping a quarterback with that kind of arm on that kind of day. 
Yet it was typical of John Ray. Paul Shoults and the defensive play­ez's not to take the easy way out. "We played a bad game. We let them win by our mistakes," said defensive captain Jim Lynch after the game when those words did not come easily. 
The defense had learned its lesson. From that point on, it did not falter. 
Northwestern. Defense. Nic k Rassas. If there had been any doubts about the defense, they were dis­pelled in the 38-7 victory. The score was deceptive. The game gave the first indications of offensive weak­nesses. The inability to move the ball, to pass, to score until the fourth quarter cast a shadow over the offensive unit. 
Army. A battle marked by hard hitting. A shutout showing by the defense. A long pass by Tom Schoen 

•*V"^'-'-'^*-''''jA^~ 
PI-*' 
m ^^^4i^t 
to the end zone on a broken pattern, but again, no real ability to move the ball. 
use . Remember. Nightly rallies. Desire. Victory. There are times when you want something so bad that no one can take it away from you. You know what Notre Dame spirit means. 
But then it was back to normalcy and offensive troubles. You watched Navy bottle up the offense until the last play of the half. You were happy. The defense came through with another great showing. But again, the offense showed definite weakness. It became apparent that Ara's great emphasis on condition­ing was paying off. Give Notre Dame a weak opponent, and the Irish would win if only by wearing the opponent down. 
The touchdown ran up the score to 69. You almost wished Ara would try for two points just to hit that magic 70 against Pitt. Was Notre Dame that good, or was Pitt that weak? Everything went right, and perhaps, just perhaps, all the prob­lems had been ironed out. 
But no. The offense did move against North Carolina, but it could not score. It got to the fourth quarter and still no score. Ivan kicked a field goal. Nick Eddy broke down the right side­lines all the way. The game was won, but the offense had not fol­lowed the Pittsburgh or Southern California script. 
A
ND YET you KNEW. yoU jUSt knew, that Notre Dame was going to beat jVIichigan State, that Notre Dame would be National Champions. Again, on paper you might not be as good as Michigan State, but games are not played on paper. 
There was Ara. You didn't have to worry that the team would be in perfect physical condition for the 
game. There could be no doubt that 
he would have his new stunts and 
strategy aimed directly for Michigan 
State. But beyond that, there was 
something about Ara that inspired 
confidence. You knew that he was 
coming into the Rockne Memorial 
every morning at 6:30. You saw the 
lights burning in the Rockne Me­
morial until after 10 p.m. No man 
can do more. 
You saw him fret and stew over 
every game. You knew that winning 
that game meant everything to him. 

No one can caz^e more about a goal. 
You hear him speaking, taking just the right psychological attitude toward the game. You know that he can convey that attitude to his team. You know they will be psychologi­cally ready. With Ara going through all that, how can you lose? 
You see the players coming back to the hall later than usual. They look tired, and you know practice and the meeting must have been particularly intense. Yet tired as they may be, they come out on the roofs to speak at the rallies. You can tell from their words that they are proud of their team. They want to win this game badly. They will give all they have. Giving 100 per cent efifort is just taken for granted. 
Nick Rassas says he normally doesn't let himself get "up" for a game for fear of being overanxious in his play. That means he keeps himself from jumping up and down until five hours before the game. Now he says he is really going to let himself go for this one. Heaven help the campus. 
Jim Lynch speaks in his steady, self-assured manner. You know how badly he wants to win the game. You want it, if only for his sake. 
Dick Arrington says, "We have to win this one." For the silent guard to say that much, you know it must mean the world to him. 
The nights are cold, very cold. Yet the rallies continue. There the stu­dents are, singing the Victory March as the snow falls. How can you lose? 
A
ND YET you do. It is logical. Michigan State's defense is great. The special plays Ara planned do not pan out. Your defense plays better than ever before, but how 
long can they hold the Spartans out. They scored twice on two short drives. Your offense tries as hard as it can. The line is outmanned. It's Northwestern, Navy and North Carolina again, only worse. You can't pass. The backs can't run. 
You cheer your heart out, hoping for a miracle. You applaud when the team leaves the field. You sing the Victory March with special meaning. A few students follow with an a cappella Alma Mater. There's no shame. You have been beaten by a better team. 
Yet it hurts. Bill Zloch's eyes are reddened by tears. What happened. Why couldn't the offense move? You were so sure it could. 
But the time you get over the shock, it's Saturday and you're play­ing Miami. You still haven't quite figured out why you couldn't move the ball. Miami plays a great de­fensive game. You are stopped the first couple of times you have the ball. The defense continues its out­standing play, but the offense just doesn't have the sparkle that it had before last week. 
0-0. A tough way to end the sea­son. The team just couldn't move the ball. You see game films. Miami had stacked the line badly, totally disregarding any pass threat. They waited at the line letting the backs commit themselves. No wonder it was impossible to rush. A pass might have done the trick, but there was no one to pass. Miami knew it. They did not have what it takes to win, but neither do you. 
You are saddened that more did not come out of the season, but 7­2-1 is a very fine record. Notre Dame is one of the top ten teams in the nation. If all it took was a coach, desire, spirit, you might be number one. As it is you are num­ber 8. 
W
HAT ATTITUDE do you take to­ward this season and a 7-2-1 record? You would like to call this a great team, but you can't. Not if you use the 1964 team as a yard­stick. Indeed there was the pre­cision blocking of the offensive line, the talent of the running backs. There was the esprit de corps and total abandon of the defensive line and linebackers, the finesse and 
hustle of the defensive backfield. But 
without a fully rounded attack, 
there was an obvious lack that 
caught up with the team before the 
season was over. 
This, however, is a personnel, a talent lack that could not be helped. Through the season Parseghian gave his running attack every variation from slight changes in timing to razzle-dazzle reverses. From week to week he remade his offense to play upon the weakness of Satur­day's opponent. He conditioned his team to the extent that they were physically superior or at least equal to every team it faced. 
For all this, Parseghian must be called a great coach. 
For the players and their efforts, there must be special recognition. There were frustrating moments, to be sure. To have Purdue marching downfield for the winning touch­down and to be able to do nothing against the uncanny accuracy of Bob Griese's passing. To be hit by a Michigan State linebacker almost the moment you take the handoff from the quarterback. To face a nine-man Miami line and be unable to pass over it. 
No one could have desired victory more than Bill Zloch. The second effort running of Eddy, Wolski and Conjar was the high point of the season. Often the offensive line made holes big enough for all four backs to run through. The efforts of the defense — line, linebackers and backfield — need no one to point them out. 
No Notre Dame team has- gone without the enthusiasm and support of the student body, not even in the lean years before Parseghian's com­ing. This year was no different. Re­member Week. Dump Duffy Week. True student responsibility. Control and respect at pep rallies. Perfect conduct throughout the Michigan State weekend. Enthusiasm. Notre Dame. 
In Ara, in the team, in the en­thusiasm of the students there is a greatness of which to be proud. In these things Notre Dame is number one. 
FOR KEVIN HARDY THE '65 SEASON ENDED BEFORE IT STARTED. WITH PURDUE THE BALL-CONTROL THEOR Y CLAIMED A GIANT. 

A STRONG RUSH TO THE TOP 
The Irish revert to a new attack with the same success­ful results; a description in the Chicago Sun-Times. by DICK HACKENBERG 

N
OTRE DAME'S Fighting Irish carried with pride and considerable distinction the glory of their 9-1,1964, resurgence to an amazing 48-6 triumph over the Uni­versity of California here Saturday. 
"Carried" is the word. A crowd of 53,000 shirt-sleeved fans, basking in brillicint sunshine, watched aghast as Ara Parseghian's relentless machine ground out 381 yards on the ground and 68 on only seven passes for an astounding total of 449. 
Nick Eddy alone scampered 99 yards. Bill Wolski 77 and Larry Conjar 67. Each talUed one touchdown and quarterback Bill Zloch, superbly mixing his plays, scored two. Nick Rassas streaked 65 yards to still another with a punt return and, in the closing minutes, second-string halfback Dan Harshman got the seventh. 

Ken Ivan kicked a 28-yard field goal and three extra points. Twice the Irish were thwarted in an attempt to run for two-point conversions. 
Twice Rassas intercepted California passes and in both instances launched touchdown drives, return­ing the two thefts for a total of 48 yards. 
"I think we capitalized on every mistake," Par­seghian said happily after the game, the highest scoring Notre Dame victory to launch a season since 1951 when Indiana was trampled by the same score. 
"We're not that good and they're not that bad. It's diflScult to judge your true strength in a game like this. We had good field position all afternoon. 
"Our passing attack complemented our running game nicely. For our needs today, it was adequate. Our pass defense needs work; Cal completed some good ones (nine of 22 for 97 yards). Cal was most un­fortunate; it yielded field position on turnovers all day." 
Coach Ray Willsey of the Golden Bears was the heart bowed down. "We have no excuses for this fiasco," he said. 
"We were not in Notre Dame's class. You have to be impressed by those Irish backs, in fact, their whole offense. They had the ball for 88 offensive plays and after a while that begins to tell on your defense." 
The Notre Dame Juggernaut started slowly, grind­ing out 80 yards without benefit of a pass, to Ivan's field goal. 
Before the first quarter closed, Rassas snatched his first interception and ran the ball 37 yards to the Cal 12. A 10-yard loss forced Zloch to the air for the first time and he hit Tom Talaga with an 18-yarder at the four. Zloch drove across from the three. 
The Irish took their 9-0 advantage into the second period and within three minute enlarged it to 22-0. A fumble recovery by Alan Page set up one touchdown, scored on a one-yard plunge by Conjar, and the irre­pressible Rassas followed with his 65-yard punt return for the other. 
Notre Dame was comfortable at 22-0 before Cal scored, and before the first half ended Zloch went 11 yards to make it 28-6. 
At the start of the third quarter the Irish drove 74 yards in six plays with Eddy taking a 24-yard pass from Zloch for the touchdown, and Tony Carey's re­covery of Tom Relies' fumble set up Wolski's tally from the six. 
When Harshman got over from the one, in culmina­tion of a 76-yard drive in the final period, the California fans started to file dismally from the big bowl. Notre Dame supporters tarried to storm into the field with two seconds remaining to gather around their heroes in joyful celebration. 
Parseghian pointed out that the Irish aim was to make their offense move on plays up the middle. 
Ara said that defensively the Irish "wanted to put enough pressure on California to force them into mistakes. 
"This we did," he added, "and each time they turned the ball over to us we got great field position." 
Next Saturday the Irish take on Purdue, one of the favorites to represent the Big Ten in the Rose Bowl, and Parseghian is wary. 
"Today I learned that we can move the ball, but I also found out that we have problems on defense, both in the secondary and at linebacker." 
P
URDUE UNIVERSITY is the Big Ten's contribution to ethnic jokes. It is a pile of engineering textbooks, asphalt, and duU-red buildings on the plain of West Lafayette, Ind., and through the years its football play­ers have been referred to as Rail Splitters, Pumpkin Shuckers, Cedar Choppers, Blacksmiths, Hayseeds, Cornfield Sailors and — curtain please — Boilermakers. For a moment consider the term Boilermakers, a deri­sive name Purdue liked and adopted officially. Does a Boilermaker sound like the kind of guy you would want your sister to date? Does he sound like funl He's got to drive a beat-up '57 Buick, come from a family of 14 in Gary and spent most of his time breathing rivet dust. Yeah, yeah, he'll study for you and maybe he'll become an astronaut—big deal—but he couldn't do the jerk if he loaded up on Dexies, he couldn't find Chez Paul in Chicago with a compass and he'd stumble on a carpet. Naw, man. To have any class you've got to come from a cooled-out school like Michigan, or Wis­consin or Northwestern. Purdue? Man, Purdue is like Iowa. After all, how many Boilermakers do you know who can chew gum and walk at the same time? 
Well, as of last Saturday, there was at least one. His name is Bob Griese and he may be a farm-type boy from Evansville, and he might have made the ter­rible social mistake of going to Purdue, but in playing No. 1-ranked Notre Dame he was outlined against the pale blue September sky so dramatically that 61,921 people suffered hysterical seizures, and there was one in a group of frantic, shocked sportswriters who be­came so deadline-destitute that he labeled Griese the Lone Horseman "riding into the VaUey of Death." Griese had that kind of day. He brought out the Apocalypse in you. 
Passing, running, kicking and thinking, Griese whooshed out the candlelight that Grantland Rice promised (in the second and unremembered para­graph of his famous Four Horsemen story) would "always gleam through the Indiana sycamores" in South Bend. . . . 
It takes a summing-up to capture the true potency of the performance. For example, Griese did complete a noteworthy 19 of 22 passes for 283 yards and three touchdowns and set up the fourth (and winning) score with his passes. But he also ran nine times for an average of five yards per carry.... These were clutch keepers — sharp, darting runs necessary to sustain drives. Griese punted three times—high, accurately and deliberately short—to the Notre Dame six-, seven- and 26-yard lines. 
Griese did all of these things in a game so full of thrills it would have wrecked an IBM computer. It was a game that produced 726 yards of combined total offense between old, old, disrespectful rivals that were rated after last week's opening games first and sixth in the national pools. It was a game that saw a total of 37 different running, passing and returning plays gain more than 10 yards each, often more. And this figure does not include two touchdown runs of short yardage that were more important than the 37 plays and a late, apparent game-winning Notre Dame field goal that bounced—bounced, mind you—over the crossbar, causing Coach Ara Parseghian to jump around like a man with a scorpion in his pants. It was a game in which the lead changed hands five times . . . with Pur­due, just four minutes short of the end coming back once more with a stunning drive to win. . . . 
BOILERMAKERS SHATTER AN AMBITIOUS DREAM 
Sports niustrated recalls how a bunch of engineers and that hot-handed quarterback upended the Irish, 25-21. by DAN JENKINS 
Excerpts from '"Oh Tliat Griese Kid Stuff.'' Copyright Sports Illustraled, Oct. 4, 1965. 
DEFENSE ON THE REBOUND 
With memories of the Purdue game fresh, the South Bend Tribune accounts for a ferocious defense and a young man named Rassas who together broke open a tough Northwestern team. by JOE DOYLE 
D
EFENSE! That was the name of the game all week on Notre Dame's Cartier Field practice grounds. And it was the big difference Saturday when the Irish broke open a tense low-scoring duel to beat Northwestern, 38-7. 
Eight times in the second half the visiting Wildcats put the ball into play. And five times the Irish took it away to either score or set the offense into motion. 
Nick Rassas, the lithe Chicago senior, broke the Irish home free late in the third period with a 92-yard runback of an interception. And then for good measure, he scooted 72 yards with a punt return some seven minutes later for one of the greatest defensive per­formances ever seen in the Irish stadium. 
Without the spark of the defense, the Irish would have been hard pressed, particularly after halfback Nick Eddy left the game in the first period with what v/as called a mild concussion. Hard-running Bill Wolski was also ailing and the Irish offense was far from impressive. 
Northwestern, too, came up with a great perfor­mance on defense, but couldn't match the Irish effort. Phil Clark, the 'Cats defensive left end, picked off one of Bill Zloch's passes and returned it 50 yards to score. And when the Irish bounced back for a tying touch­down but missed the extra point, it was the only scor­ing until Rassas took charge with less than three min­utes to play in the third period. 
Ironically, Rassas got the Irish in trouble three plays earlier when he fumbled away a punt to Dennis Coyne at the Irish 20. But when quarterback Dave Milam, a much-badgered individual all day, fired toward halfback Woody Campbell, Rassas cut in front of him at the 8, grabbed the ball and raced 92 yards to score. The intended receiver Cas Banaszek had been knocked down on the play. 

As he sped past the Irish bench he was in the clear and cheered on by his teammates and coach Ara Par­seghian. Northwestern coach Alex Agase said later, "He had so many blockers, I thought he got some of them off the bench." 
This wasn't the end for the defense. In a 24-point final period, two recovered fumbles, a punt return by Rassas and an interception were to set up scores that threatened to make the game a rout. 
So devastating was the rush against passers Milam and Dennis Boothe that the Wildcats ended up with minus two yards in running for the day. Most of this came from the five times Milam was hit behind the line of scrimmage in the second half. 
Improved tackle play by the Irish and a better performance by the linebackers undoubtedly helped the cause. Dick Arrington, moved over from the offensive unit, was a stout performer at tackle along with Pete Duranko, who played his greatest game for the Irish. 
But Alan Page, Harry Long and new contenders like Tom Rhoads and Allen Sack at ends also helped con­tain the 'Cats. And the booming punts of Dan McGinn likewise kept the N.U. attack at bay. 
t^ 
ife^ 
DEFENSIVE HEAD LYNCH: A STANDOUT PLAYER AND LEADER 
The defense contained Army, 17-0, but the loser's locker room is the subject of the Herald Tribune's account. by BOB STEWART 
'THEY'RE BE A UTIFULLY COACHED. THEY'RE EXPLOSIVE" 

44^HEER^ CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME," sung with 
KJ exultation and tipsy exuberance, echoed hollowly and faintly in the curving, dank tunnel beneath Shea Stadium. Alumni of the Golden Dome and the IRT-7th Ave. were rehving those glory days when the Irish had come to New York to whip Army. Now, after 19 years the Zlochs, Wolskis, Conjars and Sheridans had re­turned again to dominate the Long Gray Line. 
The first faint rasp of cleats on concrete reached the small group of men clustered around the Army dress­ing room. Townsend Clark, massive shoulders distorted by grotesque pads, clomped slowly along. Army's star defensive man, helmet dangUng from his right wrist, looked neither right nor left. The rain-dampened, mud-streaked face beneath the sodden, cropped blond hair was devoid of expression as he dropped his helmet and slumped to the bench in front of his locker. 
Now his mates came straggling along, lips sealed silently, eyes glazed with enormous disappointment because, for them, the end of the world had happened moments ago. 
Behind them, the doors closed as portentously as those of a tomb, and Paul Dietzel, as though standing in a mortuary, began to intone his account of the smashing 17-0 defeat. 
"They just whipped us," he said. "They're beauti­fully coached. They're explosive. They hit and hit. And they keep coming on and on and on." The Army coach hesitated for a moment, wiping his worried brow with a crumpled handkerchief. "Our Townsend Clark," he resumed, "he must have made 5,000 tackles. But we just couldn't sustain our offense. We make, we made mistakes. Those interceptions . . ." he shivered in dis­gust. "Rassas! That Nick Rassas is frightening. I tell you, just when he's standing around out there, he terrifies you." 
Someone wanted to know what he thought of Larry Conjar, Notre Dame's 19-year-old, 205-pounder who had slammed with glee into a wearying Army defense on 10 of 13 plays, eight in succession. Conjar's crunch­ing assault had taken the Irish within easy range of the field goal that put an already assured victory out of all possible reach. 
Dietzel permitted only a shade of envy to curl his hps. "Conjar. Yeah. Oh, man. But I tell you again that that Rassas, and aE of them. There were times Nick Eddy and Bill WolsM weren't in there, and I didn't even know it. That's how good, how deep they are in that backfield." 
Notre Dame's superiority, however, was not con­fined to its offensive team. The disciplined, big and quick defenders of Ara Parseghian's squad had matched every deed, every skill of Dietzel's corps. And in'the last period, after the field goal, the South Bend horde had driven a tortured Fred Barofsky almost into a safety so that Army was faced with the humihation of being four and 34 from its goal line. 
The Irish had two competent if uninspired quarter­backs in Tommy Schoen and BiU Zloch. Army had only inexperience in Barofsky and Curt Cook. "They were just too strong for us — everywhere," Dietzel admitted. 
Outside, the Subway Alumni were proving that con­ditioning and breeding can carry through two decades. They moved with the creeping good humor in a solid mass of humanity through the turnstiles. For them, nothing had changed. Notre Dame had won as usual and they still had to stand in the subway. 
AND INTO THE MOUTH OF HELL! 
After last year's victory, the Trojans could expect little more than the specially concocted reception, described in the Los Angeles Times, that resulted in a 28-7 victory for the revenge-minded Irish. by JIM MUBKAY 
O
UTLINED AGAINST the blue-grey October sky, Notre Dame kicked the bejabers out of USC on a leaky Saturday afternoon. The Fighting Croats did it again. The Eleven Horsemen rode again. And again. 
The Trojans spent the day on their haircuts. Notre Dame spent it in the end zone. 
For the benefit of the Trojans, the football Saturday was a Spalding J2V oblong in shape, seamed in the corners and usually found in the arms of a Notre Dame halfback. The only thing USC won all day was the toss. They got a lot of practice Saturday running back kickoffs. Also, they got to work on their reverse plays. Once, they got the ball on the Notre Dame 9­yard line and, by adroit maneuvering, they had re­versed all the way back to the 38-yard line in only three plays. It was the most they moved the baU all day. Against Notre Dame, you take any direction you can get. 
Mike Garrett, who was going for the Heisman Trophy, couldn't even get to the line of scrimmage most of the afternoon. . . . 
Mike usually carries the ball 30 to 40 times a game. To do that Saturday, he would have had to intercept Notre Dame passes back from center. The Trojan attack crashed into the Notre Dame line with aU the shattering force of a soap bubble. Garrett's total of 43 yards was about what he ordinarily gets in the first two carries. It was only 130 yards below his per-game average of 170. He couldn't gain 170 yards against Notre Dame by airplane. As a matter of fact, neither could the whole team. 
The Trojans took the field with all the elan of a guy who was being asked to cut barbed wire in front of a machine-gun emplacement in the dark. . . . 
It was a great day for the Belgrade division of the Fighting Irish, the Croatian lodge of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. Lawrence Wayne Conjar has not been trying to make the Heisman Trophy, he's been trying to make the first team. He only made four touchdowns this wet afternoon and 116 yards, which was only 73 more than Garrett made and 122 more than • Rod Sherman did. It was also 42 yards more than USC made. 
Of course, he only had the USC line to run through. You have heard of the "Seven Blocks of Granite"? Well, this day, we had the seven chips of potato. I have seen bass drums that would fight back harder.... 
I wouldn't say this place was emotional. Not any more than the second act of an Italian opera. There must not be a bed sheet left in the whole joint. They threw more linen than a tenement, house on washday. They had signs on them like "Irish killl" "Trojans welcome into the jaws of death and the mouth of hell!" I think the rally director was Charles Addams. Or Count Dracula. A cofiin with "No. 20" (Mike Garrett) on it was dragged around the field. And a bed sheet with a picture of Garrett being hanged by a Notre Dame linebacker infelicitously named "Lynch" (Jim) was also waved before the TV cameras. It was about as funny as Nuremberg. .. . 
The rain might have proved the eflBcacy of prayer since a flood was popularly supposed, before the game, to be the only surefire defense against Garrett. But Ara Parseghian, as if telling Divine Providence, "look, if you don't mind, I'd rather do it myself," kept the tarpaulin on the field until just before the game. . . . 
USC made several mistakes at the outset, not the least of which was scheduling the game in the first place. They should have seen if Yale was available. "There is no question the mind, the emotions, the spirit, play a very important part in this game of football," announced Parseghian at the end of the game. But I noticed he teaches blocking all the same. And keeps his scouts going down in the Pennsylvania coal mines with a canary and a letter of intent. 
''ANCHORS AWEIGH''? NOT A CHANCE! 
The Sun-Times sees size, speed and precision as Notre Dame's big advantage. by CHIP MAGNUS 
F
OOTBALL GAMES are always a little tougher away from home. For Notre Dame's visitors, they're nightmares. Navy, a 29-3 loser to the Irish Saturday, doesn't suffer by comparison with other victims of the South Bend slaughterhouse. 
In the eight games here since Ara Parseghian took over as head coach, the Irish haven't come close to losing. They've outscored the visitors 243-45. . . . 
It's something the fiery Parseghian has brewed up, invoking memories as weapons until the hapless visitors find themselves facing everyone from George Gipp to Johnny Lujack. 
Along with the memories, Parseghian's legion has patented its own way of winning. The Irish start their games slowly, wait for the other guy to make the mistake and then pound the ball down his throat again and again. 
You can ask Navy coach Bill Elias, among others, because that's the way it happened Saturday. 
Outside of a couple of spectacular punts by Dan McGinn, the Irish moved the ball as if it weighed 100 poimds. Rimners plowed into their blockers, passes were tmderthrown or dropped by intended receivers. Decency forbids more than a passing mention of a first-period field-goal attempt. 
Parseghian gave credit to Navy's defense and also agreed the Irish suffered a letdown, after last week's vengeance victory over Southern" Cal. Of Navy, Ara said: "They put nine men within three yards of the line, all 11 within five and just dared us to pass. But we weren't passing well and we just couldn't move." 
Then came the break. Instead of punting. Navy tried for a first down late in the second quarter, failed and the Irish took over on their 45. 
"We felt we could run out the clock," explained Elias afterward. "We may also have been influenced by Notre Dame's pitiful offensive efforts to that time." 
Elias was to say later, "I won't second-guess that first-down try. I've never been one to second-guess myself." 
Parseghian was to say, "I called that short toss to Eddy. Navy-'was in a four-four prevent against the long pass, and I knew we had to give it to a back who could get into therclear. He made a fine run and Bill Wolski threw a good final block at the 10." 
The game actually ended at half time. Going into the third quarter the Middies,clearly had it, and other Irish heroes (like Winnetkan Njck Rassas who ran back a punt for a 66-yard TD) ha^ their moments. 
They pummeled the wilting -Middies for 22 more points. The fourth' quarter became a workout for the subs and for the students who yelled, "We're No. 1, first, first." 
Finally it was aU over. Parseghian walked to mid­field, consoled Elias and escorted him out of the un­friendly confines of Notre Dame Stadium. 
The memories were put away for another week. 
P
ITT'S football team made believers out of even the 
most skeptical at Pitt Stadium yesterday. 
The Panthers lost convincingly to Notre Dame 69-13. 
They proved that their 51-13 loss to Syracuse the week before was no fluke and they did it the hard way, giving no help to the Irish in the form of fumbles or interceptions until Notre Dame had a four-touchdown lead. 
Long before the finish, the sellout crowd of 57,169 was meandering toward the exits and historians were delving into the record books, which yielded the fol­lowing quaint discoveries: 
1 — The only teams to score as many points against Pitt were Michigan in 1947 (69-0) and Army in 1944 (69-7). 
2 — Bill Wolski's five touchdowns tied a Notre Dame record set by Red Maher in 1923 against Kalamazoo. 3—Ken Ivan's nine extra points broke a record set by Buck Shaw against Kalamazoo. 
4 — It was Notre Dame's most ferocious outburst since 1940, when the Irish beat another Pittsburgh team, Carnegie Tech, 61-0. There must be a lesson here for somebody. 
It was not the worst Pitt defeat of all time because Kenny Lucas threw a touchdown pass near the end of the first half and Ed James threw another with 12 seconds to play. Another small triumph for Pitt was the fact that Lucas escaped with his life. 
Wolski, his five touchdowns notwithstanding, was only the third leading rusher for Notre Dame. Both Nick Eddy and Larry Conjar outgained him, 88 yards (they finished in a tie) to 54. 
Wolski's longest scoring run was seven yards. After his fourth touchdown, on which he swept Pitt's left end from the two, he joyously threw the ball into the stands. 
The next time he scored, tying Maher's record against Kalamazoo, he more or less took it for granted, but maybe he was beginning to suspect that Maher had been up against a tougher defense. . . . 
Conjar ran for a touchdown on the second play after the kickoff with the game less than one minute old. He burst through a hole in the middle, cut to his right, brushed off one tackier as he headed toward the corner of the field and dragged the Pitt safety man the last few yards. Eddy's lunging catch of a pass from Zloch, good for 56 yards, kept the Panthers from tightening up against the Notre Dame running game. 
Before the quarter was over, Notre Dame had pounded 52 yards to make it 14-0, and 81 yards to make it 21-0, with Wolski going in from the seven and the five. . . . 
The Irish would tear Pitt apart in the middle and then send Wolski outside. Often he would find the coast clear but if anybody happened to be waiting for him it didn't seem to matter. Wolski just said, "Going my way?" and gave the tacklers a'lift. . . . 
Notre Dame's first unit stayed in the game until the score was 35-0 and returned after Pitt's first touchdown with 32 seconds left in the half. 
The score was 48-6 before Coach Ara Parseghian thought it prudent to put the second stringers back in. 
Following Pitt's last touchdown, Pete Andreotti returned the kickoff to the Notre Dame 35 and with two seconds left, the Irish caUed time-out for one more play. They were hard guys to satisfy yesterday. 
Not since the great flood of '89 has so much disaster been \\Tecked upon the greater Pittsburgh area. The Pittsburg Press tries to explain the great force of nature that rolled up 69 points against their Panthers 
by EOY McHUGH 

THE JOHNSTOWN FLOOD OF '65 
***'*-'. 
•'^^/:*^-^ 

SIXTH STRAIGHT ON RUN AND GUTS 
Nick Eddy breaks the North Carolina game wide open to with a fourth period touchdown run; Chicago's Amer­ican sees the Irish add another win to an impressive strealt. by BILL GLEASON 
WITH ONE MINUTE gone in the fourth pei'iod, the 
boisterous Tar Heels of North Carolina were 

trampling greasy footsteps all over college football's 
"game of the year." 
Mighty Notre Dame, which had scored 69 against Pittsburgh, had scored exactly none against the Tar Heels, who were not at all impressed by the historical import of the fighting Irish date with top-ranked Mich­igan State next Saturday afternoon. 
Notre Dame had a fourth down at Carolina's 16V^­yard line, with a yard to gain, early in the fourth quarter. Irish quarterback Bill Zloch, changing his play at the line of scrimmage, took too long, and his team was penalized five yards for delay of game. 
It looked as though the Irish had discovered still an­other way to dissipate a touchdown opportunity, but coach Ara Parseghian knew what to do. 
He asked Ken Ivan to kick a 38-yard field goal on a day that was not meant for kickers, what with a troublesome crosswind. 
Ivan responded, as he usually does, and the Irish finally had a 3-0 lead. Befoi-e the period ended the Irish broke out to run the final score to 17-0. Then they retired to their dressing room to see if Michigan State would keep its rendezvous with destiny. 
Not until the final period was half over yesterday afternoon could the partisans in the crowd of 59,216 shake down the thunder with a collective sigh of relief. 
Then Zloch placed the ball in the capable hands of halfback Nick Eddy, who swept right end from his 34 before Notre Dame's gang blocking. 
Eddy, Notre Dame's first Fighting Irish-Mexican squirted away just as he reached the corner, and went sprinting down the east sideline. . . . 
Eddy's 66-yard run broke the hearts of the Tar Heel kids, who played a beautiful defensive game. 
Late in the game Mike McGill, Notre Dame's line­backer from .Hammond's Bishop NoU High School, grabbed a pass that was thrown into his abdomen by Carolina's talented quarterback Danny Talbott. 
McGill was downed at the Tar Heel 41. Carolina's defensive unit was tiring now, and Notre Dame had another touchdown seven plays later. Eddy ran this one over left tackle from the 3-yard line. 
Notre Dame gained 320 yards rushing but most of it was wasted effort for obvious reasons. 
Eddy alone rushed for 163 yards in 21 attempts, 66 yards more than all the Carolina backs could produce. 
Sophomore halfback Rocky Bleier, was a capable replacement for Wolski. Bleier gained 66 yards in 11 tries. 
Zloch completed six of 11 passes for 65 yards, and Talbott hit on 10 of 23 for 67. 
The real stars, though, were the defensive players of both teams. Pete Duranko led the Irish with 14 tackles, including assists. Carolina's standouts were middle guard Joe Fratangelo, linebacker Malobicky and de­fensive end Bo Wood. 
The next attraction: Michigan State, No. 1 in the nation. 
"^^ '  .•*.' ;  *  *^#l !  ••  *  
1*11  lW% *i'*'ia'i-*  .•,**  > t  
>%  #  g#E '.^^  ^ 3  
-^• j  . / 3^^?/'V •Sf i.atfy ^K -« , "  
'*^l»7  
-->-,  ,--ii?  •,n  

sn, „,; 

IF PATTERSON and Clay hit as hard as Michigan State 
and Notrfe Dame, then we'll see another Dempsey-Firpo fight in Las Vegas Monday night. This year's football game of the century was strictly as advertised, a monumental defensive struggle between the finest of college teams fired up like the boilers of the Robert E. Lee. 
The wild gang tackling and the ferocious pursuit would have raised goose bumps if the contest had been a scoreless tie, but it was made doubly exciting by the fact that the weaker team was in front until the 39th minute of play. Michigan State was clearly the supe­rior, yet until the Big Ten champions slammed in for a touchdown in the third quarter, the bizarre possibility existed that Notre Dame might make a 3-0 lead stand up all the way. 
Indeed, against almost any other opposition, Notre Dame might have taken a 21-0 lead into the dressing room at intermission, for Ara Parseghian's scholars, recovering a fumble on the State 19-yard line, inter­cepting a pass on the 25 and pouncing on another loose ball at the 18, had three bright chances to score. 
State's magnificent defense could have no more eloquent testimonial than the fact that the nation's second-best rushers, making no mistakes when op­portunity knocked, could get only three points. 
In fact, the rushers didn't get any points. After 
POINT OF NO RETURN 
Sportswriters across the country saw "the game of the year." No one reading the account of the 12-3 struggle in the New York Herald Tribune was disappointed 
by RED SMITH 

the first fumble they gained only five yards on three plays and had to call on Ken Ivan for a 32-yard field goal. 
After the interception, the rushers didn't get a tumble. Bill Zloch, the quarterback, tried a pass on the first play and although Bill Wolski, a halfback, was there to catch it, State's Charley Thornhill was ahead of him. 
After John Homey, a whale of a linebacker, fell on State's second fumble, Notre Dame bucked for a yard, then lost five when Zloch had to digest the ball on an attempted pass. On third down he got a pass off with Phil Sheridan waiting in the end zone, but State's co-captain, Don Japinga, picked it off. 
Though he is a senior, Zloch played little before this season. In the seven victories and one defeat prior to this game he never dreamt what life could be like for a passer with Bubba Smith, 268 pounds, and Harold Lucas, 286, putting on the rush. Much of the time Zloch wore 544 pounds of meat like a Phi Beta Kappa key on his bosom. 
All Notre Dame stars were of the defensive tmit— Horney, Pete Duranko, Dick Arrington, Tom Regner, Mike McGill, Tom Longo, and Jim Lynch. 
In spite of the intractable gladiators, Michigan State got loose for huge gains, mostly by Clinton Jones and Dwight Lee. 
t^^^mm 
fW 

*M ik-y.^ 
A^'-V 

CLOUDS OVER MIAMI 
The Miami Herald tells how the modern-day Four Horsemen were stopped and the reliable and automatic toe of Ken Ivan went awry under the lamp-lighted skies of steamy Florida by EDWIN POPE 
O
NLY the steady thunder of Miami's student section and the staccato cannonading of Touchdown Tommy kept the area around Notre Dame's bench from resembling a funeral scene Saturday night after the 0-0 tie with the Hurricanes. 
Ken Ivan, who missed two short to medium-dis­tance field goals, did not even wait until the end to express himself. He simply put his head between his hands and wept without shame. 
Long after the last whistle, a Notre Dame assistant coach stood on the sideline, aimlessly slapping a sheaf of plays against his thigh and staring blankly ahead. 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian broke the melancholy reverie by striding to midfield. He threw an arm ai'ound UJM Coach Charlie Tate's shoulder. "Great game . . ." he repeated, pounding Tate's back. "Your guys really did a wonderful job. . . ." 
Or when Parseghian tui'ned away, his bounden duty done, did the pain show. 
Parseghian bolted the locker-room door for a man-to-man talk with the Irish. He was grim-faced when he opened it. A clutch of reporters waited hesitantly until Paz'seghian half-snapped, "I'm not going to say a darned word. . . ." 
"All right," said a reporter, "weren't you discouraged v/ith the last two games, the 12-3 loss to Michigan State and now this tie?" 
"Disappointed? No, I'm not disappointed with to­night!" Parseghian retorted, ignoring the Michigan State portion of the question. "We TIED this game. We didn't lose it. What do you want me to say?" 
Somebody hit Parseghian a glancing verbal blow about the Irish offense. A week ago the Irish were meeting Michigan State for what amounted to the na­tional championship. Saturday night they finished off eight straight quarters without a touchdown. 
"When your passing attack isn't really strong, peo­ple catch up with you," said Parseghian. "We knew Miami would come at us. They had given up only three touchdowns in three games. We thought maybe we could shoot by for three or four yards before they got us. 
"But they stormed. Thej'' stacked up on us. Half the time we were running against virtually a nine-man line. 
"Miami just was tremendous defensively. That No. 27 (cornerback Tom Bier) made some great plays. All of them did." 
A questioner groping for specifics mentioned that Notre Dame backs had slipped frequently. Was it the fault of the turf torn by more than two dozen games this fall? 
Again Parseghian refused to take the easy way out. "The turf was all right," he said. "Our backs just lost their balance." 
Bill Zloch, the quarterback from Fort Lauderdale, completed only six of 20 passes for 60 yards. Yet he did not find himseK in disfavor with Parseghian. 
"Bill played a decent game," the coach said pa­tiently. "He's played good football for us this year. He led us to a 7-2-1 record. You couldn't ask much more. 
"Just give the credit to Miami. They did the job." He paused gently. "And after all, it isn't as though we lost the game. . . ." 
There really didn't seem much more to say. 
THE TROUBLE WITH YOU GUYS IS THAT YOU'RE JUST TOO DAMN NICE. —JOHN RAY DEFENSIVE LINE COACH 
 RESPECT ALL OPPONENTS^ but ice fear none''u wE . . . John ray . . . courage . . . dedication . . . jmde . . . defense. 
the year of the defense . . . of three shutouts . . . of holding nine of ten opponents to thirteen points or less. 
of jim lynch (61) coming back from last year's knee injury to captain the defense . . . of his hard-nosed, dedicated play and boyish exuberance after his interception in the north Carolina game. 
of John homey (51) developing, game by game, into a better and better linebacker . . . of a whole new linebacking creio that evolved into a highly efficient and capable unit. 
of an xinintimidated defensive backfield . . . of the irrepressible nick rassas (27), naming, throioing, catch­ing and acting as team cheerleader . . . of the Chicago kid, tony carey (1), ivho used shoulders, elboios, hands, and knees to the greatest effect . . . of torn longo (9) quietly, but efficiently, going about his business of destroying runners and intei'cepting passes. 
of stopping garrett with forty-three yards . . . of holding michigan state scoreless for thirty-nine minutes . . . of miami's negative rushing yardage. 
of recognition . . . of standing ovations from the stands . . . of stars and footballs on the helmets . . . of paul dietzel saying, "that rassas is frightening" . . . of red smith writing, "''all noire dame stars tcere of the defe^isive unit — homey, pete duranko, dick arring­ton, torn regner, mike mcgill, tom longo, jim lynch." 
of a cohesive unit . . . of this imit's effort . . . of tJm unit's pride . . . of the unit's success . . . of greatness. 
THE SECOND THEY PUT THAT BALL INTO THE AIR. IT'S AS MUCH OURS AS THEIRS. —PAUL SHOULTS DEFENSIVE BACKFIELD COACH 
.i_ij.<»i" ""mnifc 
WE'LL BLOW 'EM OUT OF THERE. 
—DOC URICH OFFENSIVE LINE COACH 

yo u GOTTA WANT THAT GOAL LINE A LITTLE BIT EXTRA. —TOM PAGNA OFFENSIVE BACKFIELD COACH 
ii  \  GROUP OF ELEVEN GUYS who had  a  hell of  a  lot  
jt\  of pride"  . . .  bill zloch (6)  . . . of laiiry co njar  
(32)  putting  his fist  through  a light  switch  after  last  

year's loss to southern cal . . . of remembering with four touchdowns . . . of bill wolski (35) aiiswering a challenge and throwing the ball to row thirty-five . . . of running like the jeep with four-wheel drive that he is . . . of nick eddy (J^), refusing to be stopped, break­iyig open the navy game as the half rati out . . . of sprinting doivn the sideline to shatter an inspired north Carolina team. 
of george goeddeke playing only two weeks after an appendicitis operation . . . of dick aiYington stand­ing lonely on the field as units change . . . of phil Sheridan leadiiig the team out of the tunnel . . . of torn regner developing into a polished offensive guard . . . of bob meeker-'s and tom sullivan's blasting blocking, 
of an offensive line that made holes where they shoiddn't have . . . and an offensive backfield that found holes where there ivere none. 
*i,V" 
i^ 
•Mi 

From the guidance and direction of a demanding coach and a self-im­posed discipline, an improved image is created that proves . . . 
THE FOOTBALL BUM IS GONE 
by SKIP MYSLENSKI 

"Football is not just a business; it contHbutes to the making of a better man. We, the coaches, like to feel that a boy is better off for having 'played for vs." 
— JOHN RAY 
At Notre Dame, a football player is a special kind of man. He is in no way a mere jock or animal, tjrpified solely by bulging biceps and no neck. For he does not only have the brute strength necessary for success, but also personal discipline and, as Coach Ray expressed it, the "more than average intelligence necessary to get into school, to stay in school, to play for a coach like Ara." 
But above all, he has dedication. A dedication that allows him to give of himself — both mentally and physically — seven days a week and, at times, seven hours a day. A dedi­cation that forces him to budget his time, to regulate his activities, in order to fulfill all obUgations. A dedication that drives him to readily sacrifice, so he may proudly say, "I am a Notre Dame footbEill player." 
It is not a title easily earned, for the demands are great. Every Mon­day, each player is given a twenty-five to thirty-five pages scouting re­port of the following Saturday's op­ponent. It is impossible to translate on paper the elaborate nature of the detailed information. But the re­tention of all the various tendencies and habits is each individual's re­sponsibility and, in effect, adds an extra course to his schedule. 
Besides the time spent studying and restudying the "Waggles" and "Run Actions" on paper, hours are spent at team meetings, watching and reviewing films. Week in and week out, Monday to Wednesday nights at the movies show top at­tractions. Two and one-half to three hours per night are spent being im­pressed by next week's opponent. With visions of Army Rip and Army North Rip, Navy South and Navy South Liz dancing in his head, a player gets back to his hall around 
9:30 p.m. — some seven hours after he left for the locker room. 
Besides being a student of dia­grams of pass patterns and trap­blocking, the football player is also a receptor of the volleys of psy­chological warfare. From the time the first preseason prediction ap­pears to the moment he runs off the field in the tenth game, he is the object of everything from pats-on­the-back to feature stories. Well-wishers from his home town, bois­terous rallies across the campus, sheets hanging from third-story windows — each helps kindle the de­sire to win. And each adds a little bit more pressure. 
Further, he is reminded of the im­portance of the upcoming contest by a "What does this game mean?" memorandum. Before the Southern Cal game it read, in part, "We have a debt to repay. Southern Califor­nia was the only team that beat us last year, 20-17. They were not humble winners — they rubbed our noses in the ground. Revenge is great motivation. J£ you are made of what I think you are — you will make Southern California pay the price for stepping on our field." 
Yet, games are not won on paper. They are won on the field. Through busting heads. Through aching muscles. Through bloody noses. "Football is not a contact sport. Dancing is a contact sport. Football is a collision sport." 
What is put down on paper is only theory and psychology. The field be­comes a proving ground. A place to respond to the pleas and pressures. A place where the words and the x's and o's of a blackboard are translated into actions. A place where Saturday's victories are pains­takingly shaped. And Sunday's head­lines rightfully earned. 
Under the hot sun of September and October and in the biting winds of November, boys are rejected and men are made. Cartier is not just a field. It is an arena, a stage. It is a background for displays of courage and perseverance. Of de­termination and dedication. Of a "don't quit" attitude. 
At two-thirty, a player reports to the Stadium. Three-fifteen — on the field, hitting and cracking like the National Championship was at stake. Hitting and cracking. More hitting and more cracking. 
Then a shower, dinner, the meet­ing and movies until nine-thirty. It is a dedication that sacrifices seven hours a day to be called, "A Notre Dame football player." 
From all the efforts expended and aU the time invested, more than mere headlines and pats-on-the-back are reaped. Coach John Ray, a man who has been associated with the game for twenty years, states the case poignantly: 
"It is the closest thing to life after you get out of school. It teaches you how to take setbacks. You ex­perience responsibility, discipline, and mental toughness as well as physical. You learn how to get along with others — one minute you may be fighting a person on the field, the next minute you are showering and eating with him. 
"The carry-over value after a ca­reer has ended can't be measured because it's so great. It develops a 'don't quit' attitude that you'U have v/ith you forever. 
"The day of the football bum is gone. Each player on the squad is a real credit to himself, to you, and to the school." 
When Ara Parseghian came to Notre Dame in January, 1964, he brought, he emphasized, he preached one doctrine. Pride. 
It wasn't a typical pride. Not only a pride in being a football player. But also a pride in oneself as a person. As an individual. As a man. It was a pride that regulated a player's actions off the field as well as on. A pride that instilled in each a personal discipline. A pride that reminded him of what he repre­sented. 
The emphasis on this was never more evident than in the locker room after the Miami game. There, after the disappointing tie, Ara re­minded his players that they're Notre Dame and that they coidd, by their activities, very easily ruin all they had worked so hard for. He exhorted them to use good judge­ment and regulate their actions in this manner. A matter of that thing called "personal pride." 
To each of the Notre Dame foot­ball team — from the All-Amer­icans to the preppers — a thank you for the unselfish dedication and discipline. And for the outstanding representation, an admiring recog­nition — you are a special kind of man. 

NUMBER SIX WAS BUT ONE OF ELEVEN 
"Notre Dame football players are, in my opinion, great examples of what football can be. They have strength. They have drive. .. . At the final gun, as in the opening minutes, they are just one great unit of desire to play football with the will-to-win. II 
Southern California Heisman Trophy Winner 1965 

 SOUTH BEND^ on the day of the INgame, there came a sudden cold spell. The wind rose and shrieked through the campus and any game played there that day would be a running game. But not in Miami. There Notre Dame sweated in the armor of their sport and for some, as their sweat seeped, so their strength ebbed. Meeker, a tackle, did not know the score at half time. Dazed and tired, it seemed to him Notre Dame should be ahead. But the score was 0-0. And in the third quarter, Arrington, a guard, was laid on the bench and covered with ice bags, because he could not sweat. Another senior. Bill Zloch, seemed not to feel the heat. He said later, " . . . I'm only a quarterback. I don't do that much." 
For Zloch to be in Miami and even to speak those words was not an easy thing. He was not a Wolski or a Duranko. "I'll never forget Duranko in freshman year," he said. "I can remember going home and bragging about him." Did other players go home that summer and brag the same way of a quarter­back from Florida named Zloch? 
Next fall he was fourth team and against Pitt he hurt his knee and there was an operation. That spring, still disabled, Coach Parseghian came and told him, "Don't worry, you'll get a shot." So Zloch, a fourth-string quarterback with a bad knee, ran all that summer. And after Huarte's Wisconsin game, Zloch was backing up Snow at split end. But with the Navy game he was back at quarterback because the coaches said they had to start thinking about next year. 
They drilled Zloch. They drilled him to strengthen his wrist and to get rid of his unnecessary motion. That summer he practiced "flash" drills with his friends. He would turn his back on three people 15 yards away, spin, and try to hit the hand of the one whose arm was raised. He simulated patterns with his brothers. He was a runner and he was learning to pass. 
Notre Dame had always had great quarterbacks. He knew, he said, that Lujack and Hornung had come be­fore him. "And here it was me." 
But Lujack and Hornung had never 
played for Parseghian. "With Coach 
Parseghian there's just something 
about playing quarterback. You 
don't worry. You go out there and 
produce. I don't know how to ex­
plain it. You know he's going to 
take care of everything." 
The team ran. They started off by running over everybody axcept Purdue. And because they worked so hard in the dirt, they really didn't need Zloch's average passing. "Some­times I'd have a slump for a game. And after North Carolina we really started working on our passing game, we were doing real well. But then came Michigan State and the roof fell in." It was an offensively futile game but Zloch had brought them back after Purdue and he was running with the first team because he could move them. Parseghian stayed with him. 
Zloch admits it's hard to go on the ground, and that, sure, it would be nice to be wide open. "If they're not fearful of the pass, the lineback­ers just keep coming and coming and coming." But this team was made to run. The ends were not great re­ceivers but they could block and the backs were fine runners, so whether it was harder or not, they ran the ball. "The team," said Zloch, "was very close to Parseghian's heart. He knew this team had to work very hard for what it got." 
And so Zloch came to play in the Miami game. Now he can't beUeve his football time at Notre Dame is over. He was the last to leave the locker room after Miami. He and Coach Parseghian sat there and talked over the season. Zloch said that his coach was disappointed about the Miami game but was happy about the season as a whole. 
In every game, then, Zloch did feel the heat. He felt the heat of the always coming linebackers, and the heat of criticism he had received. If he says that he is only a quarter­back, that he doesn't do much, he's wrong. He was a running quarter­back and his was a running team. And when the senior football play­ers tell about Zloch this summer, they'll say he ran it well. 
— JAMIE MCKENNA 
The enthusiasm of the student body helps the team immeasurably. Anytime you are at home, or even 

fes^l; 
Xotre Dame Spirit, a phrase tossed around a lot in the course of a season. Just what does it really mean to the coaches and players? Just what do they think of . . . 
THIS STUFF CALLED NOTRE DAME SPIRIT 
if you are away and a number of students make the trip, the team looks for it as the Notre Dame way of behavior. "V\Tien my defensive boys come on and off that field and get a hand, it gives them a tremen­dous lift. And I use that factor, tell­ing them, "Those are our students, the students you are playing for." 
— Co-ACH JOHN RAY 
You are, by all means, emotionally keyed up before a rally even starts. But many times, just watching the guys in the fieldhouse can give you that extra push that can make the difference in a close game. 
GEORGE GOEDDEKE 
Pep rallies are as much a part of Notre Dame spirit as Rockne and the Four Horsemen. They reflect the interest of the student and show us that there really are 7,000 stu­dents behind us. 
— JIM SMITHBERGER 
\Vhen you are out on that field, you do hear the students cheering. How much you hear may vary with your concentration from one mo­ment to the next. But you hear it, and it picks you up and makes you want to try just that much hardei\ 
— DAVE MARTIN 
Whether you are going to play the next day or not, you look down from your seat, and you really know what the phrase means, "Remember who you are and what you rep­resent." 
• HUGH O'MALLEY 
Rallies reflect the importance of a game for both the team and the students. A visitor at the rallies would feel how much a game like Southern Cal meant to us, but even at the Carolina rally I had visitors tell me it was the greatest rally they had ever seen. 
— TOM RHOADS 

\ 

THANKS! WE'LL MISS YOU 
On Oct. 22 Charlie Callahan, sports publicity director for over 20 years, announced his decision to resign to move to the position of publicity director of the Miami Dolphins. Everyone at the University keenly feels the loss 
of Callahan both as publicity director and as a gentleman. Dame. Best wishes in the future. 
"In my time at Notre Dame, Charlie Callahan has been a good friend and a tremendous help to me, the assis­tant coaches and the players. He has our gratitude. We will miss him." 
—ARA PARSEGHIAN 
HEAD FOOTBALL COACH 
"I remember Charlie aU the way back to my playing days and I feel I have known a man of real dedication who has meant a great deal to both players and coaches. It's going to be a terrible loss. He will be hard to replace. I wish him aU the luck in the world." 
—^JoHN DEE HEAD BASKETBALL COACH 
"The loss of Charlie Avill affect fencing as much as anything on campus. Any sport has Charlie's efforts; he knows as much about fencing as about footbaU. He's a jewel that will be sorely missed." 
—^MIKE DECICCO 
HEAD FENCING COACH 
"He had to say it a second time and then a third time. If he'd said that Father Theodore Hesburgh, the presi­dent, or Fr. Edmund Joyce, a vice-president, was leaving, well, that's the way the canonical ball bounces. But Notre Dame without Calahan? That's like painting the Golden Dome orange." 
—^BiLL GLEASON SPORTS EDITOR CHICAGO'S American 

 To him: Thanks for endless contributions to Notre 
"Charlie Callahan is, without a doubt, the college sports publicity director in the country. Moreover, he is the greatest personal sports publicist there is. By that I mean he knows more people connected with sports on a first-name basis than any other publicist. Charlie is one of the most honest persons I know. Writers know that he will always level with them, that they can trust his word. He never quits working on his job. Every second of the day he keeps his mind producing ideas that will get Notre Dame the publicity it deserves." 
—^PAUL NEVILLE 
MANAGING EDITOR 
BUFFALO Evening News 

"Charhe has always been proud of Notre Dame. He came when Leahy was just starting his great era. But most of the time was spent in those lean years. At that time he kept the press interested in the school be­cause he believed it was possible to have good aca­demics and still have a good football team. He never quit believing that Notre Dame athletes were special, that the school attracted dedicated, clean-cut, intelli­gent kids. 
"Charlie has never been anything but fair. He pays as much time to the man from the little Cedar Rapids paper as he does to the writer on the large Chicago paper. He knows every sportswriter in the nation and treats everyone with all the interest he has." 
—JI M MDLLIN EXECUTIVE SPORTS EDITOR 
Chicago Sun-Times 

PASS RECEIVING PUNT RETURNS 
1965 FINAL 
PLAYER NO. YARDS -VVG. TD PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. TD 
Nick Eddy 13 233 18.0 2 Nick Rassas 24 459 19.1 3 
Phil Sheridan 10 140 14.0 0 Jim Sraithbcrger 1 9 9.0 0
STATISTICS Don emitter 6 155 25.5 2 
Mike Heaton 4 74 18.5 0 
Larr>- Conjar 4 55 13.8 0 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS Tom Talaga 4 49 12.3 0 TACKLES: Jim Lynch 108; Pete Duranko-95; Mike 
N.D. OPP. Rocky Bleicr ..._ 3 42 14.0 0 McGill 88; John Homey 77; Tom Longo 73: Dave 270 .— POINTS SCORED 73 Dan Harshman 2 39 19.5 0 Martin 70; Nick Rassas 53; Harry Long 38: Dick 172 - FIRST DOWNS _ 114 Pete Andreotti 2 29 14.5 0 Arrington 36; Tony Carey and Tom O'Leary 34; 128 by Rushing 54 Paul May „.. 2 —3 —1.3 0 Alan Page 30: Tom Rhoads 29; .Arunas Vasys 22; 35 .— by Passing 56 Bill Zloch 1 31 31.0 0 Harry Alexander 16; John Pergine 15; Tom Rcgner 9 _ by Penalties 4 Bill ^Volski 1 8 8.0 0 13; Jim Ryan 12: Ron Jeziorski 11: Gerald Kelly 2147 YARDS RUSHING 754 Tom Schoen 1 1 1.0 0 9; Bill Wolski 7; Don Gmitter. Kevin Hardy, .-Mien 
566 .— TIMES CARRIED 389 Sack, and Jim Smithbergcr 6; Ken Ivan, Rudy 3.79 Yards-per-try 1.94 
Konieczny. and Tom Sullivan 3; Nick Eddy, Dan 850 ..- YARDS PASSING 1190 PUNTING 

Harshman, Mike Heaton, Mike Kuzmicz, Bob 118 Passes Attempted _ 209 
Meeker, and Dick Swatland 2; Rocky Bleier, Larry 

PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. 
53 Passes Completed 106 Conjar, Tom Schoen, Tom Talaga, .-Man VanHuffel, 
Dan McGinn 51 2011 39.4 
.449 Completion Percentage 507 
and Mike Wadsworth 1. 18 Passes Intercepted by 10 229 Yaids Int. Returned 117 P.ASSES BROKEN UP: Mike McGill 6: Jim Lynch, 3007 .— TOTAL OFFENSE 1944 RUSHING Tony Carey, Nick Rassas, and Tom Rhoads 3; Tom 51 PUNTS __. 73 Longo 2; Harr>- Long, Tom O'Leary, Alan Page, 2049 Total Yards ..._ 2887 PLAYER TC I'ARDS AVG. Jim Smithbergcr, and .Man VanHuffel 1. Nick Eddy 115 582 5.1 
39.4 Average 39.5 
OPPONENTS' FUMBLES RECOS'ERED: John 

Larry Conjar 137 535 3.9 
468 Yards Punts Returned 19G Homey, Alan Page, and .-\IIen Sack 2: Tony Carey, 
Bill Wolski 103 452 4.4 
21 FUMBLES „... 26 Don Gmitter, Harry Long, Tom Longo. Mike 
Bill Zloch 78 162 2.1 
12 Ball Lost 13 McGill, and .-\runas Vasys 1. 
Rocky Bleier 26 145 5.6 
329 Yards Penalized 403 Paul May 30 123 4.1 
Tom Schoen 35 81 2.3 
SCORING PASSES INTERCEPTED 
Dan Harshman 19 GO 3.2 Pete Andreotti 20 48 2.4 PLAYER NO. YARDS TD 
PLAYER TD FG-Att. PAT-Att. TP Denny Conway 1 2 2.0 Nick Rassas 6 197 1
Bill •\VoIski 8 0 4-runs 52 
Dan McGinn 1 —9 Tom Longo 4 7 0
Ken Ivan 0 7-12 27-31 48 Tony Carey _... 3 9 0
Larry Conjar 7 0 0 42 Mike McGill 2 1 0
Nick Eddy 6 0 0 36 Jim Lynch 1 8 0
Nick Rassas 4 0 0 24 KICKOFF RETURNS Tom Rhoads 1 4 0
Bill Zloch 3 0 0 18 PLAYER NO. YARDS AVG. Dave Martin 1 3 0
Rocky Blcicr 2 0 0 12 
Bill AVolski -6 131 21.8 
Don emitter 2 0 0 12 
.Nick Rassas 4 82 20.5 
Paul May 2 0 0 12 
PASSING 

Nick Eddy _ 3 63 21.0 
Denny Conway 1 0 0 6 Pete Andreotti _ 1 39 39.0 Player Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Pet. 
Dan Harshman 1 0 0 6 Dan Haishman „ 2 27 13.5 Bill Zloch 89 36 9 558 3 .405 
Tom Talaga 0 0 2-pass 2 
Mike Ku^micz _ 1 11 11.0 Tom Schoen 24 13 1 229 1 .542 ND TOTALS 36 7-13 33 270 Larry Conjar 1 10 10.0 Dan McGinn 3 3 0 42 0 1.000 OPP. TOTALS _ 11 1 4 73 Pliil Sheridan 1 0 Dan Harshman .... 2 1 0 21 0 .500 
O R Campus ^^Mman 
(5y the author of "Ralhj Round the Flag, Boys!", "Dohie Gillis;' etc.) 
THE BLUEBIRD OF HAPPINESS HAS FLOWN THE COOP 
Can education bring happiness? 
This is a question that in recent years has caused much lively debate and several hundred stabbings among American coUegeprof essors. Some con­tend that if a student's intellect is suf­ficiently aroused, happiness will auto­matically follow. Others say that to concentrate on the intellect and ignore the rest of the personality can only lead to misery. 
I myself favor the second Yiew, and I offer in e\'idence the well-known case of Knut Fusco. 
Knut, a forestry major, never got anything less than a straight "A," was awarded his B.T. (Bachelor of Trees) in only two years, his M.S.B. (Master of Sap and Bark) in only three, and his D.B.C. (Doctor of Bhght and Cut­worms) in only four. 
Academic glory was his. His intel­lect was the envy of every intellect fan on campus. But was he happy? The answer, alas, was no. Knut—he knew not why—was miserable; so miserable, in fact, that one day while walking across campus, he was suddenly so overcome with melancholy that he flung himself, weeping, upon the stat­ue of the Foimder. 
By and by, a liberal arts coed named Nikki Sigafoos came by with her Barby doll. She noted Knut's condi­tion. "How come you're so unhappy, hey?" said Nikki. 
"Suppose you tell me, you dumb old liberal arts major," replied Knut pee­vishly. 
"All right, I will," said NikM. "You are unhappy for two reasons. First, because you have been so busy stuff­ing your intellect that you have gone and starved your psyche. I've got noth­ing against learning, mind you, but a person oughtn't to neglect the pleas­ant, gentle amenities of life—the fun things. Have you, for instance, ever been to a dance?" 
Knut shook his head. 

"Have you ever watched a sunset? Written a poem? Shaved with a Per­sonna Stainless Steel Blade?" 
Knut shook his head. 

"Well, we'llfix that right now," said Nikki, and gave him a razor, a Per­sonna Stainless Steel Blade, and a can of Burma Shave. 
Knut lathered with the Burma Shave and shaved mth the Personna and for the first time in many long years he smiled. He smiled and then he laughed —peal after peal of reverberating joy. "Wow-dow!" he cried. "What a shave! Does Personna come in injector style, too?" 

"It does," said Nikki. 
"Gloriosky!" cried Knut. "And does Burma Shave come in menthol, too?" "It does," said Nikki. "Huzzah!" cried Knut. "Now that 
I have found Personna and Burma Shave I will never have another un­happy day." 
"Hold!" said Nikki. "Personna and Burma Shave alone will not solve your problem—only half of it. Remember I said there were two things making you imhappy?" 
"Oh, yeah," said Knut. "What's the other one?" 
"... and then to a justice of the •peace." 
"How long have you had that bear trap on your foot?" said Nikki. 
"I stepped on it during a field trip in my freshman year," said Knut. "I keep meaning to have it taken off." 
"Allow me," said Nikki and removed it. 
"Land's sakes, what a relief!" said Knut, now totally happy, and took Nikki's hand and led her to a Personna vendor and then to a justice of the peace. 
Today Knut is a perfectly fulfilled man, both intellectwise and personal­itywise. He Hves in a charming split-level house with Nikki and their 17 children and he rises steadily in the forestry game. Only last month, in fact, he became Consultant on Saw­dust to the American Butchers Guild, he was named an Honorary Sequoia by the park commissioner of Las Vegas, and he published a best-selling book called I Was a Slippery Elm for the FBI. 
1966 SCHEDULE 

September 24—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Revenge! Griese returns possibly as Heisman Trophy candidate. But 
Jack MoUenkopf's powerhouse '65 squad loses end Bob Hadrick, half­back Gordon Teter, and fullback Randy Minniear. 
October 1—Northwestern at Evanston 
Homecoming for Ara. After the warm welcome he received at South Bend this year, Coach Alex Agase is sure to try his best to repay his old buddy. 
October 8—Army at Notre Dame 

An old and always hard-fought rivalry was renewed this year in New York. Next season, the Black Knights return to South Bend for the first time in many years and will attempt to bring Coach Paul Dietzel his first victory over the Irish. 
October 15—North Carolina at Notre Dame 
This year the Tar Heels traveled north and gave Notre Dame a scare. Next year they wiU be back for the third time in four years and will attempt to achieve more than a scare. 
October 22—Oklahoma at Norman 
Another old rival resurrected. One more game in one of the most fa­mous series in coUege football. 
October 29—Navy at Philadelphia 

The Middies bottled up the Irish for twenty-nine and one-half minutes this year. Coach Bill Elias will have a more seasoned and tougher team in his second year at Annapolis. 
November 5—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 

If the Irish remembered the Tro­jans, what will the Panthers do? 
November 12—Duke at Notre Dame 
Another southern team travels to South Bend and will bring some hot competition to warm up this Novem­ber Saturday. A new opponent and new interests. 
November 19—Michigan State at East Lansing 
Need more be said? 

November 26—Southern California at Los Angeles 
The Irish redeemed themselves in 
The makers of Personna® Stainless Steel Blades and Burma Shave®  Sis shuiman  South Bend. Next year, they will be  
are pletised that Knut is finally out of the woods—and so will you be if your goal is luxury shaving. Just try Personna and Burma Shave.  out to show the Westthey'll NEVER forget.   Coast  that  

FRESHMAN SQUAD 
ENDS: Curt Heneghan (6-3, 190, Redmond, Wash.), Tom Reynolds (6-0, 185, Ogden Dunes, Ind.), Jim Seymour (6-4, 202, Berkeley, Mich.), Bill Skoglund (6-1, 209, LaGrange Park, m.), Brian Stenger (6-4, 205, Euclid, Ohio), Jim Winegardner (6-4, 220, Lima, Ohio), Bob Zubek (6-2, 220, N. Madison, Ohio). 
TACKLES: Gordon Beeler (6-2, 235, Wood River, IH.), George Kunz (6-5, 232, Arcadia, Cahf.), Mike Malone (6-3, 226, Ehnira, N.Y.), Eric Norri (6-2, 244, Virginia, Minn.), Pat Scharage (6-0, 222, Osh­kosh. Wis.), Ed Tuck (6-3, 237, Har­rison, N.J.). 
GUARDS: Ron BeU (5-11, 197, Nederland, Texas), Ray Fischer (6-1, 220, Cleveland, Ohio), Roger Fox (5-11, 225, Rockford, HI.), Joe Free­bery (6-0, 200, Wilmington, Del.), John Jordan (6-0, 225, Kansas City, Mo.), Bob Kuechenberg (6-2, 220, Hobart, Ind.), Tom McKinley (6-0, 218, Kalamazoo, Mich.). 
CENTERS: Mike Bars (6-4, 232, Farmington, Mich.), Richard Har­witz (6-1, 220, Burhngame, Calif.), John Lavin (6-4, 200, Spokane, Wash.), Jim Leahy (6-0, 215, Lake Oswego, Ore.), Tim Monty (6-0, 198, St. Albans, W. Va.). 
QUARTERBACKS: Bob Belden (6-2, 200, Canton, Ohio), Mike Brands (6-1, 160, Portland, Ore.), Mike Franger (5-11, 175, Elkhart, Ind.), Terry Hanratty (6-1,187, But­ler, Pa.), Thomas Lux (6-0, 190, Phoenix, Ariz.), Bill Mahoney (5-11, 190, Phoenix, Ariz.), Coley O'Brien (5-11, 168, Alameda, Cahf.), Dan O'Connor (6-1, 170, Chicago, 111.), Joe Sheeketski (6-0, 160, Carson City, Nev.). 
HALFBACKS: Frank Criniti (5-8, 170, Charleston, W. Va.), Frank CzarnecM (6-4, 170, Bay City, Mich.), Ron Dushney (5-10, 200, Peckville, Pa.), Bob Gladieux (5-11, 168, LouisviUe, Ohio), Mike Holt­zapfel (6-1, 191, Irontown, Ohio), Chuck Landolfl (5-11, 204, EUwood City, Pa.), Den Liss (5-7, 170, Fal­som. Pa.), Tom Quinn (6-1, 188, Chnton, Iowa), Tom Slettvet (6-0, 192, Sumner, Wash.), Paul Snow (6-1, 172, Long Beach, Calif.), Joe Walker (5-11, 180, Shreveport, La.), Dave Yonto (5-7, 165, Orrville, Ohio). 
FULLBACKS: BiU Bartholomew (6-2, 220, Glen Mills, Pa.), Chuck Lauck (6-1, 209, Indianapolis, Ind.), Ed Vuillemin (6-1, 208, Akron, Ohio). 
Hear Ye! Hear Ye! 
THE BRAND NEW 

Congratulates the Fighting Irish 
GOLDEN FRIED CHICKEN • ZESTY PIZZA • SHRIMP 
FREE DELIVERY 
254 DIXIEWAY NORTH 233-7873 
Nicest Way To Wish A Merry Christmas 
* 

YOUR PORTRAIT BY CARLTON 
* 

Ask about our special N.D. prices 
* 

Make Your Appointment TODAY Phone 234-9596 
THE 

PORTRHITS 
State Theater BIdg. Phone 234-9596 
We set out to ruin some ball bearings and failed successfully 
The Bell System has many small, automatic telephone offices around the country.The equipment in them could operate unattended for ten years or so, but for a problem. 
The many electric motors in those offices needed lubrication at least once a year. Heat from the motors dried up the bearing oils, thus entailing costly annual maintenance. 
To stamp out this problem, many tests were conducted at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Lubricant engi­neer George H. Kitchen decided to do a basic experiment that would provide a motor with the worst possible conditions. He deliberately set out to ruin some ball bearings -^ ' "'^"^ by smearing them with an icky guck called molybdenum disulfide (IVI0S2). 

Swock! This solid lubricant, used a certain way, actually increased the life expectancy ^^^. of the ball bearings by a factor "% often! Now the motors can run ^^ 1 for at least a decade without 
lubrication. 
We've learned from our "failures." Our aim: investigate everything. 

The only experiment that can really be said to "fail" is the one that Is never tried. 
Bell System 

American Telephone & Telegraph and Associated Companies 
i^ The ENGAGE-ABLES go for Your 
Keepsake 
Diamond 
Ring 
Headquarters 
in Prices from $100. lo $2300. Rings Enlarged to Show Bautr o( Deuil. ® Tndc-Mirk Reg. 
South Bend JjTAWEtOf 
Each Keepsake setting is a masterpiece of design, re­
is ... flecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center dia­mond .. . a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut. The name. Keepsake, in the ring and on the tag is your as­surance of fine quality. Your very personal Keepsake is now at your Keepsake Jeweler's store. Find him in the yellow pages under "Jewelers." 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Please send new 20-page booklet, "How To Plan Your Engagement 
and Wedding" and new 12-page full color folder, both for only 25^. 
Also, send special offer of beautiful 44-page Bride's Book. 
Name. 
Address­

City--State-_zrp_ 
f KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 13202 j 
YOUR JEWELER Away from Home 

SERVING ST. MARY'S AND NOTRE DAME FAC­ULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 40 YEARS 
BLOCK BROS. 
House of Fine Diamonds Michigan at Washington 

EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FIHED 
FAST OPTICAL REPAIR SERVICE 
DR. M. MIHERMAYER 
Optometrist 

228 S. MICHIGAN 
(Next to Penneys) 234-6871 
Contact Lens Specialist 
Dr. T. R. PiJot 
Optometrist 
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED 

212 S.Michigan 234-4874 
Newly Opened 
oiese 

and American Restaurant 
illie s 
BAR and GRILL 

WE SPECIALIZE IN CANTONESE CUISINE 
Open Seven Days 
CITY 

4033 S. MICHIGAN ST. LIM 
• ND 
U.S. 31 • Willie's VU mi.) <­

KNOCKWURST AND HOT POTATO SALAD One of our specialty dishes, served every evening. 
9 9 A family 
restaurant with 

Located at 2803 S. Michigan. 
GERMAN 

Created with old world atmosphere, specializing in German and American foods. FOOD 
Open 11:00 to 10:30. Ph. 282-1991. Closed Sunday as its 
Serving Businessman's Lunch specialty! 
Qive Paper :Mate 
and your gift prohlems are all wrapped up I 
with Free Instant Gift-Wrap 
Just slip the decorated sleeve over-the box . . . lick it . . . and seal. Your Paper Mate's gift-wrapped. Instantly! 
Choose from a wide range of Paper Mate pens — for men, women, everybody. Even pen and pencil sets. 

Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
ICE SKATES 
(Ski & Hockey) 

EQUIPMENT & ACCESSORIES 
Reco Sporting Goods 
113 N. Main St. 
Next to Oliver Hotel 

For Christinas Giving 
•
 LUGGAGE 

•
 HANDBAGS 

•
 LEATHER GOODS 

•
 BRIEF CASES 

•
 GIFTS 



NANSARINTSSCN 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
Phone: 232-5881 

BOMS 
JRLOl 
BONANZA GIANT 
STEAK QQc 
GifiHTSirrim'siRiom JOr t 
STSAKnJg 
DINNER 1 

BLUE & GOLD MOTEL 
204 DKIEWAY SOUTH 
Closest Motel to ND Campus 
234-0136 
iiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif 
Owned and Operated Notre Dame & St. Mary's Favorite of 
^ it
by ND Grads Students Welcome Alumni and Parents 
Satisfy your man-sized appetite on your student budget 
Sit down to a sizzlin' 12 oz. char-broiled steak, big Idaho baked potato, crisp salad, giant Texas toast and pay only $1.39. Delicious! And priced right for you and your date. 
BONANZA 
STEAK 
DINNER 
COMPLETE 
"GIANT 
SIZZLIN' 
STEAE 
SIRLOIN 
SANDWICH CHOPPED SIRLOIN 
STEAH: 
STEAE 
PLATTER 
DINNER 

HO TIPPING-COME AS YOU AHE! 
SIRLOIN 
PIT* ^tn 
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. ' ^

BCHAm 
LOOK FOR THIS SIGN 1835 LINCOLNWAY EAST IN SOUTH BEND 
diamond center 
Name Brand Diamonds From $100 
Surprise! 

your ArtCarved Diamond Ring comes to you on its own precious throne. 
RINCS CNLAfiCED 

LOTUS BLOSSOM . ..o n a little throne 
All Styles shown with their little thrones, charmingly gift boxed from S150 to S1200 backed by the written ArtCarved guarantee and Permanent Value Plan. 
DF^AM DL\MOND ^INGS 

For free folder write J. R. Wood &. Sons, Inc.. 216 E. 45th St., New York 10017 
121 w. Washington, south bend 

See Dream Diamond Rings only at these Authorized ArtCarved Jewelers: 
Anderson KIRKMAN JEWELRY & GIFTS Angola UECHTY JEWELRY Auburn OWEN D. ECKERT Bedford McGEE JEWELERS Bloomington OWENS JEWELRY Bloomington RYAN'S JEWELRY Bluifton GREEN JEWELERS Boonville HUTCHINSON JEWELRY Brownstown PERRY JEWELRY Clinton MEDLOCK JEWELRY CO. Columbus MALCOLM ROSS. JEWELER Columbus DEL WININGER JEWELRY 
Decatur FERRIS BOWER JEWELRY Elkhart BARRY'S JEWELERS Elkhart LUKE JEWELERS Evansville 
UTTERBACK JEWELERS Fort Wayne 
BABER JEWELRY 
Gary 
COMAYS JEWELERS 
Goshen 
SNIDER-TERWIUIGER Hammond 
COMAYS JEWELERS Hammond FEHRING JEWELRY Hammond ARMIN UPSIG JEWELERS Hartford City CLYDE F. SCHWANER Hobart 
CUBBERLY JEWELERS Huntingburg KRUGER JEWELRY Jasper NEWMAN JEWELERS 
Lafayette ARNEL JEWELERS Lafayette CHUPP JEWELERS 
Lafayette LODDE JEWELERS Lawrenceburg ROBERT L. LOWS Logansport FASNACHT'S JEWELRY STORE Logansport 
KREUZBERGER JEWELERS Mishawaka JOHN E. WILL Muncie MORTON STANDT'S JEWELERS Nappanee 
E. NEWCOMER & SON New Albany miON & WOLF. JEWELERS New Castle ARNOLD'S JEWELERS North Manchester RALPH C. WARD North Vernon ROGER WILBER, JEWELER Petersbiirg BURNS JEWELRY Portland ARN'S JEWELRY STORE Princeton 
J. HERSHEL MONROE, JEWELER 
Richmond  
ROHE'S JEWELRY SHOP  
Rushville  
J. M. FRANTZ. Jeweler  .  
Shelbyville  *  
CONNORS JEWELRY STORE  
South Bend  
JACOBS JEWELERS  
TeU City  
WRIGHT'S JEWELRY STORE  
Valparaiso  
JONES JEWELRY  
Vinceimes  
KAHRE JEWELRY CO.  
Washington  
CARLTON'S JEWELERS  
Whiting  
ARONBERG JEWELERS  


Ask your professor, tell your father, see for yourself; Rasmussen's has the finest quality men's clothing in northern Indiana. Rasmussen's is also a friendly, courteous store. The young man and the mature man alike wiU find a quiet relaxed atmosphere in which to discuss their clothing needs. When you enter Rasmussen's, notice the many quality brands there are to choose from. You will find London Fog Rainwear, Tapered Gant, Arrow and Enro shirts. For casual wear you will choose from Thane Banlon Shirts, and full fashioned lambswool V-neck sweaters, Levi's sta-prest wash trousers, and Corbins Ivy dress trousers. For a more dressed-up look, try a Cricketeer Vested Suit with an Ivy Repp Tie. Rasmussen's also offer Jockey Underwear by Cooper, Adler Hosiery, and Swank Jewelry. When you browse through Rasmussen's you will also see full lines of Pendleton Qothes, Norman Hilton Clothes, and Baker Clothes. Finally for the mature man who wants the best, Rasmussen's are the exclusive representatives in this area for Churchill Hats and Oxxford Clothes, the finest anywhere. When the northern Indiana winds blow in cool weather, be prepared with year around clothes from Rasmussen's — only li/^ blocks from the downtown bus stop. 
See Rasmussen's campus fashions in the Cypress Room. All NOTRE DAME MEN are invited to stop in and have a Coke at the Coke bar. See you soon at 
RASMUSSEN'S 

130 West Washington St. 232-4839 
With this one exception, GT&E provides total illumination 
General Telephone & Electronics brightens just about everything you can think of not under the sun. Buildings, ball parks, golf courses, airports, highways and byways... and, of course, the home. 
We do it with over 6,000 differ­ent kinds of lamps produced by Sylvania, a member of GT&E's family of companies. One lamp so small that you can pass it through the eye of a needle. And another, in the form of flexible tape, that can be twisted and coiled. 
And we're casting new Hght on light itself. Including a new red phosphor for color TV picture tubes that makes pictures far brighter. 
In creating new ways to use light, GT&E is contributing to the safety and convenience of the total com­munity. 
We're interested in having you know more about GT&E. So we've prepared a booklet that you can obtain from your Placement Di­rector, or by writing General Tele­phone & Electronics, 730 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. 
GTE 

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS 




