#^ 
*^1 
^•S;^S:c:­
^s. & 
%
^^ 
•^\.- VS^B^^KT'-^^; •>••••••••• r*" 
^^»..^ 
•" ."-• •:j'"-i':;?J*^;--'-^-.-,••••••.:.• • • 
^ 
i^^^lSSi 
'••^=^.i^ 
• <  '  '•}"'">.  
STnnn a 6 0ft o'ofl'o0 0 0 0 0 o'o'fl a a o'o'tt-oinnR  UttllllSi^bd B  ya'a'aTaim'aaoaa'ao'aa'a'o'aTrB'fl'o'ftTa5'fta»  
'--^ivl* ^x.Jv.-Uv'/" '  
%  
Holidays ahead  .  
an offer to make  new  friends  •m  ... and keep  old  ones:  


m SUIT CERTIFICATE MO 
$10.00 OFF ON ANY SUIT IN STOCK/CLIP IT AND SAVE 
Stop by, select your suit from our full selection of popular, university-styles . . . vested. Edwardians and others in the new colors and fabrics. With this certificate you deduct $10 from the regular nrice. One certificate per suit. 
Offer expires December 20, 1969 
USE YOUR CAMPUS SHOP ACCOUNT PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, one-third in .August with no interest or carr^'ing charges. 
iSUUtSLSUISl UJUi.99 B.ft.g.9ft ftI 1.0-fl.9.g-9-flJ-Q-g.9.ftJL8,fl.0.g.gJ-9.0ff^ 


\^ILBERrS 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
december 5, 1969 notre dame, Indiana 

scholastic 
volume 111, no. 10 

football revie>A/ 1969 one dollar 
"Eleven Adequate Players" 4 "Bonded for a Lifetime" 5 
TH E SEASON 6 Northwestern 7 Purdue 8 Michigan State 11 Army 14 Southern California 16 Tulane J 21 Navy 22 Pittsburgh .,. 24 Georgia Tech 26 Air Force _ 27 
PARSEGHIAN 28 "A True Measurement of the Game" 29 The Lady of the House at 1326 E. Washington 32 
THE FIFTH QUARTER 34 1969 Final Statistics ^ 35 The Man's Name Is Townsend 36 1970 Varsity Schedule 37 Concentration, Pursuit, Meanness 38 
Football Review Editor I Terry O'Neil Photography Editor / Gary Gosimini 
Editor-in-Chief / Richard Moran Executive Editor / Philip Kukielski Managing Editor / Michael Hendryx Special Contributors to Football Review 1969 / Don Kennedy, Tom Pagna, Ara Parseghian, Joe St. Onge, Greg Stidham. Photographers / David Ross luppa, Jim Hunt, Chuck Osborne, Patrick Gibbs, Jay Anderson. Associate Editors / John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assist­ant Editors / Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier Copy Editor / John Kwiecien Assistant Managing Editor I Greg Stidham Contributing Editor / Steven Novak Business Manager / Greg Naples Circulation I Michael Malone Public Relations f James Murphy Faculty Advisor / Frank O'Malley. The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its ad­ministration, faculty or student body. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Dec. 5, 1969 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Service, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and ex­amination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is published at the Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The sub­scription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and Football Review). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
Cover 
Notre Dame's terrorizing defense pressures Navy. Irish tackle Mike McCoy (77) sheds Navy center Don Gunther (52), drawing a bead on the loose ball. At McCoy's left, Mike Kadish (72) Uterally Hfts Middle guard Dean Flatt off the ground as he bores in. Navy quarterback Mike McNallen (15) and halfback Tim O'Connell dive for their fumble. 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1969 acknowledges the special assist­ance of Mr. Roger Valdiserri, Notre Dame sports infor­mation director, in producing the cover. 

''Eleven Adequate Players }} 
(OLLEGK football's Centennial Year. From Slipper)' Rock to Southern Cal, the anniversary \vas observed simi­larly—an appropriate design limed on the field, "100'' decals on each helmet. 
But not at Notre Dame. Ara Pareeghian is a funda­mentalist and his boys always will wear the straight blue and gold. Their Stadium is a perfect saucer, containing two scoreboards, two goal posts and a playing surface. The end zones are marked with diagonal lines. Nothing superfluous. 
Notre Dame did have an appropriate response for the' Centennial "Year, a response more significant than all the decals, letters from President Nixon and halftime cere­monies combined. Notre Dame, in 1969, regained that tingling quality which has long distinguished college foot­ball from the professional game—romanticism. 
Parseghian's first five Irish squads all were pre-season favorites or mid-season contenders for the National Cham­pionship. Further, each team was dominated by one or more "name" players. 
"This year it will be a little diflferent," said Ara last September. "They're not mentally tight. They're more relaxed this year. They're having more fun with it. For a change, they don't feel that heax^y burden of being picked No. 1 before the season. They know it's not going to be the end of the world if they lose a football game. We've had the same problems with individuals who got so much publicity that there wasn't room for them to have a bad game. Same with the team, they just weren't per­mitted to have a bad performance. But this year we don't have an established 'star' and the pressure won't be there." 
GOLDEN ARM and Silver Paws were gone; in fact, the entire backfield, both ends and a pair of linemen had departed. As Notre Dame opened its 1969 season versus Northwestern, Paiseghian turned around to find this much 
playing-time  at  the ofl''ensive skilled positions:  
SE Tom Gatewood 0:00 TE Dewey Poskon 36:34 QB Joe Theismann 115:00 HB Andy Huff 0:00 HB Ed Ziegler 51:06 FB Bill Bar/ 2:54  
A  squad  so  inexperienced  naturally  inclines  toward  

the romantic, but this gioup seemed to cultivate the notion. The sophomore split end had been a runner, not a receiver, in high school. The tight end was so thin he spent the summer drinking Nutrament. The offensive co-captain was a walk-on. 
. Fittingly, the team's most romantic figiue was its quarterback. He was Joe "Twigg)'" Theismann, a fellow with the body of a greyhound, or, for that matter, a cer­tain British model. He was 6-0, 170 pounds; his wrist was eight inches, his neck 15 ^4, his chest 40, his bicep 13/2, his calf 15J4. Facially, he looked like that litUe kid third from the left in your church choir. 
"Twigg)'" could not do the job in Golden Ami's style. So Ara threw out most of those pro-sets and went back to the good old college stuff—quai-terback options, three-back offense, field-position football. 
In their opener, the Irish coughed and gagged for three periods until 5-10, 180-pound Brian Lewallen, an­other walk-on, returned a punt for the game-breaking touchdown. 
At Purdue, however, the wizardry of Mike Phipps crushed Notre Dame 28-14. 
The Irish faced a problem, at this point, which is peculiar in all of college football. Parseghian and staff made technical adjustments—^most notably, the substitu­tion of two sophomores for a pair of veteran defenders. But the more pressing diffculty was maintaining desire, what with the National Championship an impossibility and, of course, no league title to win. Could the Irish come back? Would they want to come back? Could Parseghian motivate them to come back? 
Theismann answers, "That Purdue game was the turning point. The whole team came together mentally and physically. I knew we wouldn't lose again. It just wouldn't have been ris^ht." 
Gatewood echoes, "After Purdue, all I heard was 'pride, pride.' We couldn't give up then. We had to come back. We had to do it for our pride. As far as I'm concerned, the season started with Michigan State (third game) and we went undefeated. We're a team in the tnie sense of the word. We don't have two gi-eat guys and nine mediocre guys. We've got 11 adequate playei-s. For that reason, I think we're the best team Notre Dame has had in a long time." 
B'OWLS, polls, conference championships, All-America teams, etc, are pollutants which have diluted college football's purity through the past 100 years. The game, in its essence, is a young team being defeated early in the season, then, v.dthout artificial incentives, battlina: un­beaten through the final eight games. 
Now that Notre Dame's bowl embarsro has been broken, Parseghian's duty, in defense of a legacy, is to be sure that post-season play does not become a yearly goal. He must make certain that Notre Dame continues to play, always, for its pride. 
That is what Princeton and Rutgers had in mind. 
—Terry O'Neil 
The Scholastic 
Coach Ara Parseghian and his quarterback, Joe "Twiggy" Theismann. 
.. .''Bonded for a Lifetime'^ 
Following is a letter which coach Tom Pagna distrib­uted to each Notre Dame player on the eve of the season opener. 
H.E looks normal — is so humble he rarely thinks him­self good enough. He is dedicated to "try" for all he's worth—^with effort—with enthusiasm—with deep emo­tion! Down deep he has a distinct piece of knowledge that he just knows—and it is simply—"If you won't be beaten, you can't be beaten." 
He never thinks loss—he never once holds the idea that he can't overcome any obstacle. His state of mind generates his body into super efforts—beyond what the mediocre can comprehend. 
Notre Dame's champion knows full well that each opponent will be high for Notre Dame. He also knows that men of Notre Dame can never enjoy the luxury of having a "breaking point" . . . the point where others suddenly sense the tide against them and relent. The true champion is "relentless." He plays and for as long as the contest or the season never breaks! 
HE true champion bows his head in prayer—"To do my best" — "For God" — "For Country" — and "Notre Dame." 
In his mind's eye, football and Notre Dame and win­ning are all a part of a thirst in him—that he welcomes, that he feels deeply about. It is intertwined with his very-core of existence. 
Here—in the span of ninety days—champions are being born. They are emerging. The season of 1969 will hold a place and a time in history—to recognize the new^ faces—the new names—the new champions. They will, I repeat, "look normal''—"sweat"—"cry"—"pray" —"laugh"—"bleed"—"fall"—"scream"— rise up — and conquer! 
Enter the champion not as individuals—but as a team —one, unified, spirited, enthusiastic, daring, group of Notre Dame men bonded for a lifetime. 
—Tom Pagna 



The Season 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1969 Summarizes the season from two ansrles. Assistant coach Tom Pagna offers 10 previews {in italic type), each written Thursday befoi-e the game. Terr)' O'Neil follows with an account of the action (in regular type), concentrating on big plays and locker room reaction. 
The Scholastic 

Wildcat 8c Agase Intrigue 
Three days before oui opener with Northwestern and the Chicago papers are filled with Wildcat and Alex Agase intrigue. There are jes'ts of onside kicks and a long bomb on the first play. The close of the article. Jiowever, yields to the indestructible strength of a per­petuated myth known as "Irish Horse Power." They make us a 24-point favorite. This is incredible. Some­times I think people are really naive about what really counts in athletics. IVe are not seasoned, we are not deep, we have sustained injuric; that at times seem unjust and cruel. 
"The bat laid plan\ of mice & men . . . etc.'' We planned on Greg Mai \ at tackle! We planned on fe[f Zimmerman at fullback! Here, on Thursday Zimmer­man's status is in question for the whole season. Ara lias not let anyone know this as yet, because Jeff himself does not know and Ara wants to be certain before dis­closing any inforrnation. 
Rarely will anyone admit oi understand that we are a human team as others. Any advantage we have comes fiom the JVZ) tradition, player dedication, and the leader­ship of Ara. The pressure seems a lot to overcome, but we've a better chance to do it than squelch the myth of our invincibility. Our players feel the pressure of being Notre Dame. . . . We're awfully young. Frankly, Fm worried because of the noise from the Northwestern camp. 
Game 1 

ND 35, Northwestern 10 

A FUNNY THING happened to the Irish on the way to their taken-for-ijrantcd 40-0 troimcinsr of Northwestern. They fell behind 10-0 midway through the first period. 
All that pre-scason stu-H" was fine. Sure, Ara said Notre 



l^'^''13^^'k •r. 
Brian Lewallen en route to 44-yard touchdown. 

Dec. 5, 1969 
Dame was inexperienced and slow and not extremely 
talented. Yeah, veah, and Northwestern would be tousrh 
because the Wildcat freshmen beat Purdue last year. 
But you don't think he was .serious, do you? All that 

bunk is supposed to stop at 1:30. Then Notie Dame goes 
out and smashes the other guys. Here it is. just seven 
minutes into the season: the Irish have run tuo otTensive 
plays and they're losing 10-0. C'mon. Ara. 
Northwestern surged 41 yards after' the opening 

kickoff, but settled for a 44-yard field t^oal by Bill Planisek. 
Three plays later. ND quarterback Joe Theismann un­
wrapped his passing arm for the fiist time iil '69. .A.las. Joe 
selected Northwestern free safety Rich Telander for his 
first receiver. Telander returned to the Irish 14 yardline 
and teammate Mike Hudson finished the job with three 
quick rushing blasts. 10-0. 
Bcfoic the quarter, though. T-'o'iie Dai-.ie >tnick twice for touchdowns. It was 14-10 entering the ^econd period . . . and still 14-10 entering the fourth period. The rout w'as stayed by a seiies of Irish misfortunes. Or. as NU coach Ale.x Agase phra>ed it. ""We got more breaks today than wc did in 10 games List yvai." .-\mong them: 
—Jack Derning recovered a Thei.smann fumble at the ?'.'D 1.5; Northwestern failed to score. —Irish placekicker Scott Hempel. generally accura e from close ransre. missed a 25-varcl field sfO'^l­—Derning intercepted a Theismr.nn to^s at the Irish 
39: NU didn't tally. 
—-.Arain Northwestern "Ot lie'.d ;;o-,ition ?id vards from paydirt, this time on a Joel Hall in'e.jvMjtion: the Wild­cats made three first downs befoi,- Planisek missed a 35-yard boot. 
Punt-return artist Bria.n Lewallen finally cut the rope with a 4-1-yard touchdown .scamper. (He had done that trick in each of ih:- la.st thiey pre-.sea.son scrim­mages.) Fidlback Bill Barz fonow:-d with two more TDs to assiu-c the pollsters it hadn't really iieen that close. 
Realistically, thouti;h. it had breii. a fair-to-avera;;.­show by the newcomeis at oiTensive s'lilh-d po^iiions. Half­back Ed Ziegler was outsLanding with 112 yards in 15 carries. Barz. who lushed lor 64 yards and caught thr-'-e passes for 49 more, "made a r.iininuim of mistakes." ac­cording to Ara. 
But Theismann had tluown three iiUerceptions: ends Tom Gatewood and Dewey Poskon had snagged just one pa.ss each; and halfbacks .-\ndy Huff and Denny .-Mian had gained only 53 yards in 18 attempts between them. 
Northwestern had neglected its opportimities. but the ne.xt foe—Pmxlue—would not be so "racious. 
Northwestern 10 0 0 0--10 Notre Dame 14 0 0 21--35 
NU—^Planisek, 44-yard field .goal. NU—^Hudson, 6-vard run (Planisek kick). ND—Theismann, 5-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Ziegler, 18-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—-Lewallen. 44-yard punt return (Hempel kick 1. ND—Barz, 8-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Barz, 2-yard run (Hempel kick). 

For The Third Straight Year 
Purdue is a mighty big football team and has the speed and skills to challenge our young squad. If our defense can contain Phipps (which will be no small task from his opening .showing at TCU), then our ofjense must get the ball into the end zone. 
Our squad seems to recognize that this game, in Pur­due's back yard, takes on a special significance. Still 1 think it would be an error on our part to get them too emotionally pitched and play a "tense" game. Rather, we have attempted to get a confident feeling across: that 
we  can  get  the job  done.  
Playing  them  down  there  will  be  tough,  but  we've  
worked  hard  and  prepared  well.  
Football  is insignificant  to  many  and,  in total  view of  

the world today, very minute. But "Rocky" Bleier, our 1967 captain, just wrote a letter to me from his hospital bed in Tokyo. He was wounded in Vietnam action and near to losing his foot. Yet he wrote and asked me to wish the "guys" good luck . . . before we invade Lafayette. Right now football and the people who play it crowd eveiything back. Unlike many things in our affluent world, a victory must be fully paid for with work and sacrifice. At this juncture, I hope we've paid enough. Rocky . . . he paid too much. But the "guys" will knoiv and care . . . and thank him for his remembrance. 
Game 2 Purdue 28, ND 14 

H.IS TONES rolled out of the telephone receiver slow and deep, like so many bowling balls, each hooking perfectly into the one-three pocket. 
It was Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder, America's most famous and most successful sports handicapper, speaking from Las Vegas. 
"We call it even." he said of the mid-week line on 

^! m 
S9 
m 
•22 

Figure 1: Phipps 15, Brown 22, Bullock 31, Cooper 46, Fenner 80, Ellis 23, Schumacher 24, Zloch 27, Olson 36, Kelly 42, Gasser 46, Neidert 88. 
Notre Dame-Purdue." Such words were not to be taken lightly. Last time "The Greek" had predicted a deadlock for the Irish, he 

wasn't  merely  correct.  He  called  the  final  score,  too—  
Irish 21, Southern Gal 21 on Nov. 30, 1968.  
Notre Dame  was  the pollsters' pick, for  this game—  

ranked No. 8 by UPI and No. 9 by AP. After its season-opening 42-35 conquest of Te.xas Christian, Purdue was 14th, said UPI. No, the Boilermakers rank 16th, said AP. 
Aw, those guys just don't have all their poker chips in order, countered "The Greek." His top ten showed Notre Dame No. 2 behind Ohio State, and Purdue No. 9. 

"I rate a team according to who they play," Jimmy insisted, "and nobody plays a better schedule than the Irish. Let's say Notre Dame lost to Purdue 21-19 or something like that, but still outplayed them. Next week, I'd rate Notre Dame ahead of a team like Penn State, which doesn't play a schedule nearly so difficult. I don't believe in those guys who will rate all the unbeaten teams at the top just because they haven't lost." 
His "Polar Philosophy" established, "The Greek" ex­]3lained how he and his team of experts had anived at a dead-heat verdict. 
"We figured Notre Dame was the better team, but you have to subtract two points for Zimmerman. (Five days before the game, ND's starting fullback, Jeff ZimmeiTnan, had his football career terminated by doctors who diagnosed a malfunctioning kidney.) And give Purdue three or four points for the home-field advantage." 
Of course, the boss doesn't always agree with his squad of advisors. Where Notre Dame football is con­cerned, Jimmy Snyder admits that, well, there is a slight disparity between his pei'sonal feelings and what you read in the Las Vegas Sun. 
"Personally, I have a gieat feeling for Notre Dame and for Parseghian. He's a great coach and a great man," Jimmy said. 
"I look for Notre Dame to beat Purdue by 24-21 or something in that area. It's going to be three touchdowns either way. 
"Actually, I'm one of the few men who had Notre Dame in my preseason top five. I really think your team is going to surprise a lot of people. Purdue? I don't know. I somehow don't think they have much of a team, but I can't exactly put my finger on it. I just don't think they have it this year. I wouldn't be surprised to see the Irish, go 10-0 if they beat Purdue. This one could put your team over the hump." a 
B< 'oiLERMAKER QUARTERBACK Mike Phipps had a few pre-game thoughts of his own. Phipps, however, had one significant advantage over Jimmy Snyder. He didn't have to talk about his pre-game thoughts until after the fact. 
And that fact, that painful fact, is that Mike Phipps 
The Scholastic 

took the Irish right out there in front of 68,179 spectators it sounded stronsf, that's the wav it had to be. 
(largest college football crowd in Indiana history) and beat the living hell out of them. He did everything to the Irish but burp them. 
He read Notre Dame defenses superbly, calling more than 10 audibles. "In fact," said his coach. Jack MoUen­kopf, "he even recognized defensive variations as he was dropping back into the pocket and impro\ased after the snap of the ball!" 
There is no better testimony to Phipps than his third-down performance chart. Nineteen times on that warm, breezy afternoon, he faced third-down situations. Twelve times he got the fii'st down. Further, Purdue's total offense on those 19 third-down plays was an astounding 183 yards. 
For third straight year, he had vanquished Notre Dame's dream of an undefeated season. He became the only quarterback since 1900 to beat the Irish three con­secutive seasons. When it \vas all over, Mike Phipps was a man liberated. Now he coidd speak freely about Notre Dame without fearing that his comments would hang in the Irish locker room the next year. This time, Phipps was talking no trash. He laid it right down, man, and if 
"There was never a doubt in my mind that we would beat Notre Dame today," Phipps began. "All we had to do was execute the plays. After looking at film all week, w'e felt their team wasn't as strong as last year or the year before, either. 
"We thought they were kind of weary- of coming down here to Lafayette. They doii't seem to take the initiative as far as scoring earlv in the srame. We knew momentum would be a bis: factor, so we wanted to score first. We knew that if we got out in front early, they wouldn't be able to come back. And they didn't. 
"Beating Notre Dame three straight years is something I'll probably remember when I'm older and done playing football. But right now, it's just another game, just another victory." 
A 
XJL S PHIPPS had wished, his Boilermakers stnick tor the game's initial points. The touchdown play came on 
third-and-14 from the Irish 37. 
Notre Dame decided to blitz its inside linebackers— Bob Olson and Lany Schumacher. Phipps saw the blitz 
Purdue QB Mike Phipps escapes gracefully, aided by Paul DeNuccio's block on Walt Patulski—a clip that was not called. 
coming and audibilized at the line. In the huddle, he had 
called for a fonnation wth end Greg Fenner split right, 
Stan Brown flanked left and Randy Cooper at tailback, 
behind fullback John Bullock. 
When Phipps checked oflf, he moved Cooper up into 
a slot position inside Fenner (Fig. 1). Since Irish de­
fensive halfbacks Chuck Zloch and John Gasser already 
were busy wth Fenner and Brown, outside linebacker 
Tim Kelly had to go it alone against Cooper. 
Purdue picked up the Irish blitz very well, permitting 
Cooper enough time to shake loose. He went downfield 
10 yards, froze Kelly with a brilliant move, then broke 
deep. Meanwhile, Notre Dame safety Clarence Ellis, 
whose priority responsibility was to check tight end Ashley 
Bell, noticed that Cooper had beaten Kelly. Ellis made a 
remarkable effort, but Purdue had executed the play too 
well. Cooper grabbed Phipps" looping pass in the end 
zone and the Boilermakers led 7-0. 
Three times Phipps made the third-down play during 
Purdue's second scoring drive: 
—On tliird-and-13 at the Purdue 34, Phipps drilled it 
21 yards over the middle to Cooper. 
—On third-and-eight at the ND 43, Phipps threw in 
the left flat to Browm, who undressed Zloch with a mag­
nificent feint and raced 27 yards to the Irish 16. 
—On tliird-and-two at the ND 8, Phipps pitched to 
Cooper and threw a key block as Randy picked up the 
first down. 
It was a 63-yard march in 11 plays. The Boilers led 
14-0 midway through the second period. 
Nc OTRE DAME, which had gained only 52 yards to this point, put itself back into the ball game with a reciprocal drive. The Irish covered 79 yards in 12 plays, aided no little by a pass interference penalty on fourth­and-nine at tlie Purdue 19. The touchdown came three plays later as Joe Theismann fired a 10-yard pass to Ed Ziegler who made a sparkling grab at the left flag. 
Notre Dame retained its momentum in the third period, forcing Purdue to punt twice in the first five minutes. Now the Irish had good field position at their 45 yardline. This was the opportunity they had to seize. Desperately, Notre Dame needed a touchdown. 
Ziegler got three yards at left tackle before Allan took a pitchout around left end for 17. First down at the Purdue 35. Irish left tackle Jim Reilly continued to dominate Boilermaker right tackle Jim Kleidon. Ziegler followed Reilly for three yards, then six more. Third-and­one at the 26. 
The next three plays were fatal to ND. First, the Irish were charged Avith backfield in motion. Ara's re­action to tlaat penalty: "Now you look at the film and see if you can find any motion there. It was clearly an incorrect call." 
Nevertheless, the Irish now had third-and-six at the 31. Theismann got nothing at right end. Make it fourth-and­six at the 31—^the ganie's biggest play. 
Ara dispatched the call in with flanker Jim deArrieta. Theismann was to roll left and hit deArrieta who would be crossing over the middle. Purdue came %\ith a six-man rush. Senior Billy McKoy bolted in from Theismann's right; Irish center Mike Oriard saw him too late. McKoy smacked Theismann for a 17-yard loss. And, sadly, deArrieta was open. 
Said Ara, "That was the turning point." Said Mol­lenkopf, "I know he (McKoy) was Oriard's responsibility, but don't blame him. McKoy's got good speed on the pass iTish." 
Three plays earlier, Notre Dame was threatening to make it 14-14. Now Purdue had first down at its 48; Phipps sensed the shift in momentum. 
H.E immediately gunned a 13-yard strike to Fenner. First down at the Irish 39. Then followed another pair of third-down spectaculars by Pliipps. 
On third-and-five at the 34, Purdue came out in a double wing. "I saw their inside linebacker was moving out to help cover Stan (Brown), so I knew that John (Bullock) would be open if he could slip through the line into that vacated space," Phipps e.xplained. "We call that a 'hot receiver' when one of the backs gets into the secondaiy and there's nobody to pick him up." 
Bullock lugged Phipps' pass to the NT) 15 for another first down. But three plays hence, the Boilers confronted a big third-and-14 situation at the 19. This time, Fenner was the primary receiver on a hook pattern, but Phipps spotted Brown, who was doing a quick post. Stan took Phipps' perfect throw for a 16-yard gain and Mike com­pleted the masterpiece with two quarterback sneaks. Piu'­due 21-7. 
Notre Dame went nowhere with the ensuing kickofl", then punted the ball back to Wonder Boy and his 10 side­kicks. From his 42 Phipps moved in for the death-knell touchdown. 
The critical play this time was a 42-yard toss to Bell which planted Purdue on the Irish 15 yardline. It was a fairly simple pattern, based on Phipps' contention that "their linebackers don't have gi-eat speed and we figured our tight end and our backs could outrun them." Split end Fenner took defensive back Zloch into the middle with a do\\'n-and-in pattern. Tight end Bell, going one­on-one ^wth Irish outside linebacker Bob Neidert, crossed behind Fenner, made it look like a sideline pattern, then turned upfield. Phipps' pass was oh, about two inches off target, but Bell made the adjustment and soon it was 28-7. 
There was 13:39 remaining, but the game was over. Statistics to that point showed Purdue's dominance: The Boilers' total offense was 366 yards, compared to NTD's 
140. Phipps had completed 12 of 20 throws for 213 yards. Theismann was 4 of 12 for 7 yards. 
PHIPPS vs. ND 
Att.  Comp.  Pet.  Yds.  TD  
1967  34  14  .412  238  2  
1968  24  16  .667  194  1  
1969  20  12  .600  213  1  
Totals  78  42  .538  645  4  

Notre Dame 0 7 0 7—14 Purdue 7 7 7 7—28 
P—Cooper, 37-yard pass from Phipps (Jones kick). P—^Brown, 3-yard run (Jones kick). ND—Ziegler, 10-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick). P—Phipps, 1-yard run (Jones kick). P—^Brown, 2-yard run (Jones kick). ND—Gatewood, 20-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick). 
The Scholastic 

Disdaining his early-season lethargy, Notre Dame quarterback Joe Theismann bolts around right end, past State's Gary Nowak (82). 



Theismann: Getting It In Gear 
Against Purdue, we did not play as well as we are capable. Losing to Purdue in the early season has a "special" sting. Our players must fight off the emotional adversity of a loss, and as much as we might like to dwell on it—we have not the time. There'll be other times for Purdue and things have a way of ironing out. 
On the eve before playing Michigan State and follow­ing a hard week of preparation, the Irish path is clouded. Injuries to Mike Martin, Chuck Kennedy and Mike Kadish have wounded our depth security. Earlier in the week we lost a sophomore fullback who I thought was ready to come into his own. John Cieszkowski is gone for the season with a shoulder separation. This really hurt our offensive backfield in terms of speed and overall depth. We may be forced to employ Andy Huff both at fullback and halfback. 
Already some "fair weather" anonymous notes appear in the mail, giving us helpful coaching hints as seen through their great insights to the game. Whenever we lose, which has been rare, comments of not winning the "big one" flow from the mouths of the pseudo-loyal. Whenever you lose it is a big one. To Ara and the staff every game is a big one! 
Michigan State has great speed and a powerful run­ning attack. Their defense, however, has always been their strongest suit. When coupled together, they are a formidable opponent. 
At this time, a win over Michigan State would be a tonic to our squad. We do have good morale, and fine leadership in Olson and Oriard. 
Strategically we have planned to employ a defense that will stress shutting off their ground attack first. Offensively, we hope to throw more on them. Their style of defense and the front we anticipate (a 4-4 front) call for this maneuver. Whether or not our sophomore-studded team can execute will be the key to our success. 
On the surface this may appear to be just another 

Dec. 5, 1969 
game to others, but to us it must be another super­charged effort to repel a team that gets "highest" for Notre Dame. That seems to be a weekly affair anymore. Emotionally, this draws a group of young men. Ara has, however, set the stage for our squad to comprehend this and regard it as more favorable than being a doormat zvhom nobody fears. 
Sage old Duffy will crack a few well chosen anec­

dotes and rely on his speed and depth. 
"'Twas ever thus!" 
Game 3 

ND 42, Michigan State 28 

H. .IS paunch had receded considerably and the face was a bit more aged this time. But. rhetorically, it was still the same Duffy Daugherty. 
"Gentlemen, this is my third news conference since the game ended and, by God, I still haven't had a shower,'' he said, feigning anger. 
"Listen, Duffy," said one writer, "you're doin' a helluva job. Just one more thing—^Did you really expect Ara to come out throwing that much today?" 
Daugherty's green eyes twinkled; he tugged at his plaid boxer shorts. Another "Duffyism" was taking shape. 
"Well, I'll tell you," he said, looking vacantly toward the showers. "I really didn't see Ara throwing many passes today. Theismann looked pretty good, but I didn't see much of Ara." 
On another day, Duffy might have been hiunorous, indeed. But today, he was a loser. He was Pagliaci— laughing outside, dying inside. 
n 
DUFFY'S assessment of Joe Theismann was strictly superficial. Sure, he had "looked pretty good." But the bis: difference between Theismann vs. Purdue and Theis­mann vs. Michigan State was in the mind, not the arm. Ara explained: 
"Sunday after the Purdue game we just watched films. I didn't say anything to Joe. Monday at practice, he was very flat; in fact, everybody was. I didn't say too much to him. 
"On Tuesday we had a veiy long talk out on the practice field. Joe's a gieat kid. I told him how I'd played with Otto Graham and even he had had off days. We talked abut his capabilities, what he can do and what he can't do. I said, 'Forget that Purdue game.' Joe re­sponded wth a great week of practice and it carried over today." 
Theismann claims he monopolized the conversation. 
"I started off by telling him I didn't think my per­foimance in the first two games was up to par. The guys Tm placing with are the greatest in the world. But I hadn't done an^^thing to show I was worthy of playing with them. 
"Against Purdue, I wasn't tight. I kept fighting tension all week, telling myself it was just another game. A lot of people ivere sa}ang our offense didn't have it. I was tiying to forget that. 
"But in the game I wasn't accurate with my passing at all. So when I talked to coach on Tuesday, I just told him I thought it was about time I got my ass in gear and started playing some ball." 
Make that a power shift into high gear. Against 


®(X«cdC' 

Figure 2: Theismann 7, Allan 22, Ziegler 32, Barz 33, Gatewood 44, Phillips 27, Bamum 49, Little 85. 
\ ft­\  ^  °  
CO®  D 'iz)  


Figure 3: Theismann 7, Allan 22, Ziegler 32, Barz 33, Gatewood 44, Hogan 66. 
Michigan State, Theismann completed 20 of 33 throws for 294 yards and three touchdowns, plus 51 yards rush­ing in 10 carries. 
I.T WAS supposed to be a low-sconng game — two 
tough defenses clashing with a pair of ball-control offenses. 
Typical of most Notre Dame-Michigan State battles, there 
was plenty of hatchet action expected in the "pits," that 
no man's land more politely termed the line of scrimmage. 
But Ara, consistent with the Ford philosophy, had a 
better idea. And so did Duffy. 
"We went in throwing," said Parseghian. (First time 
the Irish had the ball, they passed five' times, then 
punted.) "It's very tough to run inside against a ball 
club as big as Michigan State. We had to establish the 
passing attack first. We figured that would open them up 
for the run." 
Michigan State, meanwhile, was showing the same 
combination of fear and respect for the Notre Dame 
defense. In victories over Washington and Southern 
Methodist, the Spartans had relied on a veer offense 
which unleashed three quick, powerful running backs out 
of a tight "Y" formation. Against the Irish, however, 
Duffy decided to use the three-back veer only when his 
team reached scoring territory. Outside the ND 20 yard-
line, he replaced sophomore halfback Eric Allen \\ath 
flanker Gordon Bowdell. 
"You can't run power stuff at a team as big as Notre 
Dame," Duffy said, echoing Ara. "We had to spread 'em 
out a little bit." 
Those tactical maneuvers combined to make it an 
offensive show and, perhaps coincidentally, delay the 
"pit work" until fourth quarter, after the issue had been 
decided. 
A, OR the first time in three games, Notre Dame beat its opponent to the scoreboard. On their second series of downs, the Irish drove 41 yards to the MSU 11. Now they faced third-and-six. 

Fullback Bill Barz slid unmolested into the right flat, but Theismann, under pressure, overthrew him slightly. Barz "just stuck my left hand up to tip the ball. That way I figured I might get another chance at it." Notre Dame's 25th consecutive capacity home crowd delighted in Barz' one-man volleyball game as the Irish took a 7-0 lead. 
"That's a play we put in specifically for this game," Parseghian revealed later. Michigan State's 4-4-3 defense places responsibility for short-zone pass coverage on the linebackers. Operating out of the "I," flanker Denny Allan and tailback Ed Ziegler attracted the linebackers, leaving Barz free in the flat (Fig. 2). 
After the opening touchdowoi, State adjusted some­what, though Barz caught five more flat passes for 46 yards. Four of those five receptions netted first downs. 
N. OTRE DAME drew bad field position near the end of the first period as MSU's Gary Boyce deftly dropped a punt at the Irish 5 yardline. 
On first down, Ed Ziegler went through left guard for four yards as the period ended. Now defending the north goal, Notre Dame had a 13 m.p.h. wind at its back: 
The Scholastic 

Ara took advantage. He rushed flanker-punter Jim deArrieta into the sfame with these orders: Go for the bomb. If that fails, quick kick on third down. 
Theismann's second-down pass to deArrieta fell in­complete at the MSU 40. On third-and-six at the Irish 9, deArrieta lined up at tailback in the "I." He took a pitchout from Theismann, but his quick kick was low, hitting a surprised Ron Curl, MSU linebacker, flush in the chest. 
Two plays later, it was 7-7. 
"I hit it bad," sighed deArrieta, "too low on my foot." 

"About that time," said Ara, "I was thinking this might be another one of those days. We had gone over that quick kick every day since practice began and never had any trouble. Now we try it in a game and we get a break like that. But we bounced back. It's very de­moralizing to give up a cheap score, but these kids over­came it." 
HE IRISH took State's kickofF and bolted 85 yards in 17 plays. ND 14, MSU 7. Michigan State returned the favor immediately—71 yards in 12 plays. Make it 14-14. 
Re-enter Duffy for a brief analysis: "When we came back to tie it, 14-14, I thought we were in good shape. But Notre Dame came back with a gxeat drive after our kickoff put them deep. They went the length of the field, and I believe their score in such a short time to go ahead was the turning point of the game." 
Notre Dame started from its 27 with 2:09 remaining before intermission. Barz up the middle for two, Theis­mann around right end for 13, Theismann to Barz in the flat for 16, Theismann to Tom Gatewood for 13. Now there was less than a minute remaining. Firet-and-lO at the State 29. 
The Spartans went into a prevent-type defense with four linemen up front, four linebackers facing Irish re­ceivers head-to-head, one rover playing the ball and two safeties cushioning in deep zone coverage. 
Notre Dame countered with a spread formation (Fig. 3), hoping to isolate a linebacker and a receiver. Theis­mann faked to Barz and rolled right. Gatewood went down 10 yards and turned in, taking with him a line­backer and safety. Ziegler crossed behind Gatewood and outraced Michigan State linebacker Mike Hogan to the left flag. Theismann delivered and ND assumed the lead again. 
Notre Dame controlled the second half and Michigan State never drew even. The Irish put it away at 11:25 of the fourth quarter by driving to their sixth touchdown and a 42-21 margin. 
JL URNiNG serious for a moment, just before his shower, Duffy provided an objective judgement on this game and, without mentioning it, a very lucid commentary on the Irish loss to Purdue: 
"This was the highest point total ever scored on us since I became head coach (15 years ago). I never thought they'd stick it in our ear like they did. There was nothing flukey about it. 
"I thought Theismann had a great day. I don't know how many times he came up with the big third-down play. His style of play is very effective when Notre Dame is even with you or leading. If you need the ball, you have to come up and play his fakes on those roll-outs and options. If Notre Dame is behind, though, you can lay back and just wait for him to throw the ball. But ^ve weren't in that position today." 
Michigan State ._ 0 14 7 7—28 Notre Dame 7 14 14 7—42 
ND—Barz, 11-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) MSU—^Love, 4-yard run (Boyce kick). ND—^Barz, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). MSU—^Highsmith, 5-yard run (Boyce kick). ND—Ziegler, 29-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick). ND—^Theismann, 7-yard run (Hempel kick). MSU—^Allen, 4-yard run (Boyce kick). ND—Gatewood, 23-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) ND—^Barz, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). MSU—^Bowdell, 35-yard pass from Triplett (Boyce kick). 
Left, Ed Ziegler turns inside as Bill Barz prepares to "throw" on Gary Nowak. MSU's Tom Kutchinski outwrestles Tom Gatewood. 


D (as in Defense)-Day 
Going to play Aimy in Yankee Stadium is a game that is another in a long series of Notre Dame tradition and football history. John Murphy, our scout, has repeatedly said that Army is small, quick and will never quit. They are a typical academy-oriented team: well disciplined, superbly co?iditio?ied and fundamentally very sound. Our big task is not to allow our team the luxury of relaxing against them. They obviously will he "sky high" against 
us,  but  our  size should  overwhelm  them  if  we are  funda­ 
mentally  sound  and  play  up  to  our  capabilities.  The  
threat  here is not  to look  to the Southern  California  garne  
next  week,  remembering  Ara's  chant:  "No  game  is  as  
important  as the  ojie you  are  going  to  play."  

Game 4 ND 45, Army 0 
I J ESS than one minute remained on the Yankee Sta­dium scoreboard clock as Notre Dame's second offensive unit drove toward yet another score. 
Along the Irish Jaench, defensive co-captain Bob Olson, a most delighted fellow by this time, noticed assistant coach Joe Yonto. 
"Hey coach, hey coach," screamed Bobo, faking a state of utter panic. "^Vhat are you doin' down here, coach? You're supposed to be up in the press box spotting their defense." 
"What do you mean, Bobo?" replied Yonto, not quite understanding. "There's only 16 seconds left." Olson shook his head. "I don't know, coach," he dead­panned. "Sixteen seconds left, anything can happen." 
At the final gun, Olson raced toward the third-base dugout, slicing his way through a maze of subway alumni, pickpockets and derelicts who invariably break past New York's finest and onto the field. 
Inside the locker room, Bobo found halfback Ed Ziegler hunched over on the training table. He pranced 


®oo® 
Figure 4: Theismann 7, Allan 22, Ziegler 32, Barz 33, Gatewood 44, Poskon 80, Brenner 20, Steele 24. 
across the room, wTapped Ziegler in a playful head-lock 
and chortled, "Wake up, wake up, you sleepy head. Get 
up, get up, get out of bed." 
Ziegler pointed to a small cut above his left knee. 
"Aw, what's-a-matter, Zigg>'?" Olson laughed in mock 
spnpathy. "You know, every time this Ziegler plays a 
good game, he gets hurt. I just can't understand him." 
Now to the shower room where Bobo found his boys huddled together, struggling to get a few drops from one of the three faucets. (No, surely they didn't make Mickey Mantle \vash like this.) Olson surveyed his troops. After 14 games of defensive captaincy, Bobo finally had led his unit to a shutout; he was going to relish the moment thoroughly. Olson called a halt to lathering and an­nounced the next number. It was a raucous, soapy, slosh­ing rendition, but the lyrics were unmistakable: "I've been workin' on a railroad, all the livelong day: I've been working' . . ." 
A< CTUALLV, the events of the day, in descending order of excitement, ranked this way: 
1. Bobo Olson's debut as a chorale director. 
2.
 A gallop by Irish cheerleader Ann Stringer on the Army mule. 

3.
 The Corps of Cadets booing a peace symbol formed at halftime by the Notre Dame band. 


4. Notre Dame's 45-0 thrashing of Anny. 
For most of the 63,786 fans who clawed their way up to 168th Street, the only significant man in Yankee Sta­dium was Lindsay Nelson. It was fine to see these nice college boys playing football, but it was still baseball season. What the hell ^vas all this about Alex Webster coaching Fran the Man and Broadway Joe screaming "cheap shot" at AFL referees? Those guys \vere just trying to get a few lines in the Daily News with a lot of off-season jive. Everybody knew the Mets were opening the World Series in Baltimore that day. The place to be was Anj'where, just so you had Lindsay on your transistor. 
For the benefit of those 56 people at Yankee Stadium who weren't tuned in to WJRZ, the public address an­nouncer, former Irish QB Frank Tripucka, tossed in Series scores periodically. 
Tripucka's enthusiasm for the Mets and the Irish was suspended, however, as Baltimore took a 4-0 lead and ND floundered at the outset. 
"I was a little bit nervous in the beginning," said current Irish QB Joe Theismann, referring to a mild form of cardiac arrest known as "Yankee Stadium Shakes." 
For the second straight week, Notre Dame was facing a tight 4-4-3 defense which often looked like 8-0-3. "When they jam the line like that and just refuse to back off, you don't have any alternative but to pass,", explained assistant coach Tom Pagna. Thus, Theismann's degree of nervousness was inversely proportional to Notre Dame's degree of success. 
The Scholastic 
Army's Byron Price {89), Joe Neuman {62) and Dave 

 IRISH got only a field goal in their first three series of downs. Then a Larr)' Schumacher interception gave ND fine field position at its 45; Theismann caused a few transistors to drop on the next play. 
Scrimmaging from the left hash mark, Joe split Dewey Poskon left and flanked Denny Allan right. Tom Gate-wood was tight on the right side; Bill Bare and Ed Ziegler were stacked in the "I" (Fig. 4). 
Army was in a double free safety defense, favoz'ing the wide or right side of the field. 
Poskon ran a 10-yard hook, drawing the right half­back and safety. Gatewood's was a "read pattern." He was to run straight at his man, "read" the opponent's move, then roll for an opening. 
Army's halfback and safety both played Gatewood to the open field, but Tom broke for the left corner and Theismann's throw was as good as a Tom Seaver fastball. Gatewood's description: "When he (Cadet defensive back Danton Steele) turned the wrong way, there was day­light and I was gone." Notre Dame led 10-0. 
XHE
Between quarters^ Tripucka said, "At the end of six innings, the Mets nothing, Baltimore (very softly) four." 
Twice in the early second period, Notre Dame pene­trated Army's 10 yardline without scoring. 
At 10:04 of the second quarter: ''(with excitement) After Syiz innings, it's Mets one, Baltimore (softly) four." 
John Gasser set up Notre Dame's second TD with an 

Smith {60) fail to prevent a Theismann-to-Allan completion. 
interception at the enemy 44. Theismann got the last four yards on a big fourth-and-goal thrust. 
At 4:33 of the second quarter: "At the end of seven, Mets one, Baltimore (not softly this time) four." 
The Irish marched 65 yards to make it 24-0 as Theis­mann hit Gatewood with a seven-yard flip. 
At :57 of the second quarter: "(evenly) After jy-x innings, the score remains Mets one, Baltimore four." At :18 of the second quarter: "(evenly again) At the end of eight, Baltimore four, Mets one. 
Notre Dame's second offensive unit appeared at 6:29 of the third period and got the final pair of scores. Army, meanwhile, waited until 4:04 of the third period before crossing into ND territory-. 
Oh yes, and the Mets-Orioles final score never was announced. 
Notre Dame 10 14 14 7—45 
Army 0 0 0 0—0 
ND—^Hempel, 20-yard field goal. ND—Gatewood, 55-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) ND—^Theismann, 4-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Gatewood, 7-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) ND—Barz, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Huff, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—^Yoder, 16-yard run (Hempel kick). 



By the Width of the Crossbar 
We beat Army the best way possible. We moved the ball and scored on offense; the defense got a shutout and the entire bench played at least two quarters. Now, Southern Cal! 
We are one Saturday away from finishing up the first half of our season. We have weathered some serious in­juries and have still shown continuous progress. Southern California is perhaps the best skilled, fastest, and overall-sized team we have thus far faced. 
As Notre Dame, we cannot ever play a flat game and it also follows that we cannot forever play "sky high" games. But this one . . . just this one, will call for that kind of thing. Our players know it and sense it. The feel­ing has permeated our entire week of practice. It has not been a loud, bustling, electric week, but ojie of quiet resolve . . . a more sophisticated control of emotions lest any should escape at the wrong tirjie. The time for emo­tion is Saturday on the field for the 60 minutes of "in­
flamed  effort  we  must  give  to  win  this  one."  
There  is ayi ageless line  that  I  recall  that  says,  "The  
heart  knows  a  reason  that  reason  knoweth  not."  
Reason  would  favor  Southern  Cal for individual  play­ 

ers' size, for their speed, for their skills and record. In my heart and in the hearts of our players, there seems a growing awareness that none of this counts when the whistle blows. It will have to be that kind of attitude . . . that kind of superbly oriented will, that kind of team . . . 22 in number . . . but one in mind and desire to beat Southern Cal. 
We respect S.C. . . . we do not fear them. Our players, whatever the outcome of this game, will give an account of themselves that will swell many Notre Dame hearts with pride. I know this before the fact. If we pull it off it will be Ara's finest work of art . . . and there have been many. He's naturally engineered our strategy; he's built a sense of urgency in the staff and players and, lastly, he has led us to the point where we are of one mind: Beating Southern Cal. 
Game 5 

ND 14, Southern Cal 14 
N. OTRE DAME Stadium can keep a secret Avith the best of them. For three hours on a Saturday afternoon, she plays host to \dolent drama. But 30 minutes after the final curtain, she is nearly mute, nearly empty—revealing notliing, awaiting the next performance. 
The turf is slightly scarred. There is the scooping skid mark of a halfback who missed his cut; there is the lush divot of a split end who struggled to keep both feet in bounds. Did the halfback regain his balance; did the split end have full possession before he crossed the sideline? 
Half an hour after the last whistle, Notre Dame Stadium 
will not tell. 
There is music to accompany this post-game tour. It 
is the eerie tintinabulation of empty beverage cans, drop­
ping and rolling, dropping and rolling—^from row 47 to 
row 46 to row 45 . . . Were their contents drunk joyously 
by an elated fan? Or were the contents employed by a 
spectator who wished to numb his despondent feelings? 
Television cables lie in a heap, partially covered by 
a canvas tarpaulin. What pictures did they transmit ? 
Through the glass facade of the press box, intent little 
faces are visible. What words do these men write? 
Notre Dame Stadium was her usual clandestine 
self at 4:57 p.m. on October 18. Well, almost. She was 
showing all the expected half-clues . . . and one more. 
The north goalpost was whispering a critical secret to the scrutinizing observer. All over, the steel frame was glazed wt h a fine layer of clinging dust. All over, except for one spot. On the crossbar, about one yard to the right of center, the orange paint was wiped clean. But not completely. There were small marks, dimple marks, marks which suggested that someone had attempted a long placekick of, say, 48 yards and the ball had actually struck the crossbar. 
IT IS A curious psychological study, the way coaches and their athletes react to a tie football arame. 
Ara Parseghian sat in front of his locker, head down, drained limp. He snatched a towel from his shoulder and thrust it to the floor. Then, moments later, he rose from the stool and conceded, "I'm really not too disappointed." 
Mike McCoy, the moving mountain who had set up Notre Dame's tying score with a blocked punt, answered in terse sentence fragments. He wiped^ spasmodically, at his red eyes. He wanted fiercely to escape the ques­tioners, to reach the shower and let it all wash off. 
Dewey Poskon talked freely; Joe Theismann said little, dressed quickly and disappeared. Scott Hempel spoke quietly, yet completely, of his 48-yard, near-miss field goal effort. 
Southern Cal coach John McKay hid his emotions well. His powder-blue ^vas almost unwiinkled, his gi-ay hair groomed and in place. He drew lazily on a panatella cigar and stated, very calmly, that he was not satisfied ^\'ith the deadlock. McKay nearly lost his cool, though, on a slip of the tongue. "Jimmy Jones (SC quarterback) seemed to be bothered by Notre Dame's defense, but it wasn't his fault we lost." What? Lost? His interviewers demanded an explanation. McKay took a long drag this time, blew it all back out and said, "When we 2:et on the practice field Monday, these players will think it was a loss." 
The Trojans felt more or less similarly. Defensive end Jim Gunn offered limited praise for the Irish, re­ceiver Sam Dickerson cursed South Bend's weather and Tyrone Hudson, who made a vital interception in the 
The Scholastic 

fourth period, said, "I don't feel like talking." To Parseghian fell the task of an accurate summar)'. He used just seven words: "It was a hell of a game." 
SOUTHER N CAL threatened to score on each of its first two series. SC accepted the opening kickoff and moved 69 yards in 15 plays to the Irish 8 yardline. There, on first-and-10, Trojan fullback Charlie Evans slanted toward a huge vacancy off right tackle. Jones' handoff was short, however, meeting Evans on his hip, rather than in his stomach. The ball bounced free and ND linebacker Larry Schumacher recovered at the 7. 
Minutes hence. Southern Cal had returned and, on third-and-seven from the Irish 15, tailback Clarence Davis ran left end for a touchdown. But Trojan center Bill Redding was detected holding linebacker Tim Kelly, nullifying the TD and pushing Southern Cal out of field-goal range. (Monday after the game, McKay com­mented, "Our film shows no holding. Reddinsr was flat on his back throughout the entire play.") 
Southern Cal had much the best of first-half field position, but couldn't capitalize. The Trojans entered Irish territory five different times during the first 30 minutes; Notre Dame's deepest penetration was the SC 
49. ND started seven of its nine series inside the 25 yard-line. First half total offense was 35 yards for Notre Dame. 
"I said nothing to them (his team) at halftime," McKay noted. "What was there to say?" Meanwhile, across the tunnel, Irish coaches Jerry Wampfler and Tom Pagna were adjusting blocking assignments. Imme­diately, their work returned a seven-point dividend. 
Notre Dame opened the third quarter by blasting out 74 yards in 11 plays. Touchdown. But Southern Cal reciprocated with a 10-play, 75-yard journey. 7-7. 
As the final period opened, ND needed eight yards on third down from its 29. Theismann called a sideline-comeback to Ed Ziegler, who flanked left. Ziegler ran the sideline part okay, but he failed to come back toward Theismann. Worse, Joe's throw was late. Hudson, the unspeaking defensive back, stepped inside Ziegler at the 40, made an easy reception and returned to the Irish 15. 
Two plays later, Dickerson, who voiced a distaste for the damp, 53-degree weather, took a Jones aerial in the left corner of the end zone. 14-7. 
Now the Irish attack reappeared, scrimmaging at its 22 after the kickoff, then streaking 61 yards in five plays. First-and-goal at the SC 7. But Southern Cal repulsed two rushes and reacted well to the flat pass. Fourth-and­sjoal at the 3. 
Theismann called time and got a play from the side­line. Communication broke somewhere^ however, because the line blocked right while Joe was rolling left. Gunn sacked Theismann for a 15-yard loss. 
Unable to regain their offensive continuity, the Tro­jans punted on fourth down at their 33. Notre Dame had granted itself a good chance of spearing an SC kick because John Young is a rather slow, three-step punter. Desperate now, the Irish put on their first punt-block of the afternoon. 
Frankly, McCoy was not supposed to get the ball, Mike aligned himself in the gap between center Redding and right guard Steve Lehmer (Fig. 5). Head-on was halfback Mike Berrj' and, behind him, fullback Evans. The blackboard diagram would show McCoy bursting through the line and flattening Berr^'. All of which creates a fine opening for linebacker Kelly, who would accost Evans, hopefully, with help from the other side. Kelly certainly would have made the block, except for one unanticipated factor—^McCoy beat him to the ball! 
Mike caught it on his face mask. The pigskin hopped crazily to the Trojan 7, where Notre Dame took posses­sion on dowTis. Southern Cal's defense did not succumb easily. But, on fourth-and-goal from six inches, Larry DiNardo, Jim Reilly and Tom Gatewood sealed off the left side as halfback Denny Allan plunged across. 
Clearly, momentum had shifted to the Irish. Again. SC could not sustain a drive and Young, hurrying this time, punted only 22 yards to the ND 44. 
Notre Dame scrapped to the enemy 14 yardline before a clipping penalty (see pages 18-19) returned it to the 
40. From there, Theismann hit split end Gatewood 
MZ 



cxxmxXD 

Figure 5:  Young 15, Berr>- 23, Harris 29, Evans  
Theismann  quiets  the multitude;  Trojan  Bob Jensen  awaits the  snap.  33, Kelly 42, McCoy- 77.  
Dec. 5, 1969  17  

Did Dewey Clipi? 
1. Theismann [extieme right) has rolled out, only to find Barz 2. Theismann (middle right) has decided to run and circled and Gatewood covered (along sideline). Poskon is open over the back to the near side. Gunn and Poskon (middle left) move middle, waving his left arm. Gunn (extreme left foreground) toward a collision. has dropped off the line of scrimmage. 
3. Just before contact, Gunn has slipped and his left knee is on 4. Gunn is struggling back to his feet; his left knee is off the the ground. Poskon approaches, Theismann cuts inside. ground. Poskon meets him, Theismann continues his cut. 
5. Poskon rolls over Gunn, who reaches for the dancing Theis­6. Theismann (right center) continues downfield as official mann. (right foreground) tosses flag as Poskon's feet. 
The Scholastic 
The climactic moment of Notre f)ame's 1969 football sea­son came with approximately three minutes left to pla\­in the Southern California game. Struggling to break a 14-14 tie, the Irish had third-and-four at the Trojan 30 yardline. A first down at this point may have led to six points. At least, it would have given Scott Hempel a solid shot at a game-winning field goal. Quarterback Joe Theismann (7) ordered a flat pass to fullback Bill Barz (33). Theismann rolled right, but both Barz and split end Tom Gatewood (44) were covered well. Tight end Dewey Poskon (80), however, was open over the middle; Theismann failed to spot him. Joe saw himself contained and circled to the left side. Simultaneously. Poskon cut back, hoping to throw a peel-block. Southern Gal defensive end Jim Gunn (83) had not penetrated the line of sciimmage. At the snap of the ball, Gunn saw Theismann roll to the opposite side and he drifted into the secondary. Gunn, like Poskon, reacted to Joe's scramble. Dewey met Jimmy at the 25 yardline and head linesman William Makepeace charged Poskon with clipping. Theismann hustled to the 14, but ND was penalized back to the 40. At left are photos printed from the Notre Dame game film. Judge them, then notice, below, the participants' comments. 
Ara Parseghian 
"It was a legal block, not a clip. It came from a lateral angle. Gunn slipped just as Dewey went to block him. Dewey landed on top, but that doesn't make it illegal." 
Dewey Poskon 
"I hit him a good clean shot. When the play was over, I looked up and saw flags lying all over the ground. I couldn't be­lieve it! I'll tell you what I think hap­pened: He buckled just before I hit him, so I landed on top. The referee probably didn't see the contact, but when he saw Gunn underneath me, he called it a clip." 
Dec. 5, 1969 
John McKay 
"After viewing our films, it appears to me that Gunn turned to follow the play and was hit squarely in the back. It was a good call." 
Jim 
Gunn 
"Theismann was running around in the backfield and I was just trying to prevent him from getting the sideline on my end. He cut inside and somebody hit me from behind. No, I wasn't surprised when flags went down. I never saw Poskon coming. Of course, he'll say it was a good block. He made a bad play and it cost his team a lot." 
for nine vards, resulting in founh-and-five at the Trojan 
31. Sliehtlv more than two minutes remained. Kicker Scott Hempel picks up the tale: 
"All durina: the drive, euvs were coming over to me sa\-ing. 'Rela.x. take it easy, keep your head down.' When the time came. Coach Parseghian turned to me and said. 'Let's tn- it." Forty-eight yards is the longest field goal Tve ever tried in a game. I don't think we would have sfone for it if the wind weren't behind us. 
"My first thought was the \%-ind. I aimed for the right pole and the wind brought it back into the middle. Joe CTheismann • jumped up and grabbed me around the neck. He said. 'We s^ot it. I think we got it.' 
"Then it dropped, like a rock. Maybe it got into an air pocket or something." 
^\'hen the ball rebounded from the crossbar, Hempel slumped to his knees and clasped his helmet with both hands. Theismann took three steps toward the bench, then kicked disgustedly at the ground. Scott, who had been booed from the XD student section as he jogged onfield, departed to soaring applause. At the sideline, Pagna was first to greet him. Hempel shrugged and ges­tured with open palms. ^Vhat had he said? 
"He didn't sav anvthins." Pasrna related. "I told him it was a hell of an effort. If there's any justice for last year (when Hempel missed a 38-yard field goal to beat SC,). this was it." 
I THE ultimate analysis, it was superb coaching which made Notre Dame equal to America's No. 3 college football team. Pagna and Wampfler had altered block­ing assignments at halftime, Joe Yonto had spotted Young's punting tardiness on film and Paul Shoults had prevented a Trojan boeib with one brilliant, daring move. 
In 1968, Southern Cal's Steve Sogge completed 17 of 28 passes for 187 yards and tied the game 21-21 wth a 40-yard strike to Dickerson in the final quarter. 
This year, Sogge was gone, but all the receivers were back. Not to be burned again, Shoults surprised the Trojans by mo\nng speedy soph Clarence Ellis from safety to halfback. Ellis drew Southern Cal's best wide receiver on each play. Ralph Stepaniak manned the opposite comer and John Gasser, formerly a halfback, became the safety. 
Shoults' concoction worked beautifully. Jones \vas limited to 11 completions in 34 tries (the longest only 18 yards) for 116 yards. Shoults was sufficiently convinced to retain the new system for the rest of 1969. 
"That was a good move," McKay frowned. "Not to be derogatory, but we thought we could take advantage of 46 (Gasser) on the corner. He sure learned his new position fast, though. That long pass to Chandler (a bomb from Jones to flanker Bob Chandler midway through the last period) was coming right at me and I thought sure he had it, but 46 made a great play." 
McKay leaned back, flicked off a cigar ash and cocked his head pensively. "There were a lot of great plays out there today." 
Southern  Cal  0  0  7  7—14  
Notre Dame  0  0  7  7—14  
ND—^Barz, 1-yard  run  (Hempel kick).  

SC—DeKraii, 18-yard pass from Jones (.^.yala kick). SC—^Dickerson, 14-yard pass from Jones (Ayala kick). ND—Allan, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). 

Fr. Hesburgh introduces Rocky Bleier in pre-game ceremony. Denny Allan {left foreground) scores tying TD. 
The Scholastic. 

Surfing a Green Wave 
Tomorrow we will be flying down to New Orleans to play our first night game against Tulane's Green Wave. 
I don't know whether I am more worried about us or Tulane. They are a quick, light team but similar to Army. They overcame a 22-point deficit to pull out a 26-22 win over Pittsburgh. Prior to that, Tulane played Florida to a 17-18 game which was decided on a last-minute bomb. They have several advantageous factors going for them. While we practice in mid-30-degree tem­perature, Tulane has the warm, humid air they are accustomed to. It is a night game, which takes a little adjusting, and they are in their back yards. In the South, 
we  are  more  apt  to  encounter  a  hostile  crowd.  
All  of  these  things  are  surface  items  that  don't  con­ 
cern  the  coaching  staff  as  much  as  other  factors.  Our  
players, naturally  enough,  feel  an  emotional  letdown  as a  
result of  a really tremendous  output  versus  Southern  Cal.  

Our offense did not perform up to our expectations. Ara sensed the doldrums and gave a "Monday off" order at the beginjiing of this week. But Tuesday found the offense again stiff, tired and more lethargic. As much as he fears injuries, Ara called for contact on Tuesday and Wednesday just to shake them up from their apathetic state. Wednesday was much improved. Tidane will at­tempt to make their season at our e.xpense. We must not falter. At this point, we must forego the luxury of relaxa­tion for winning ways are not lukewarm or cold . . . they are forever on fire. 
Game 6 

ND 37, Tulane 0 

IN the aftermath of Southern California, team fnistra­lion was so intense that, on Monday, one ND player sighed, "Well, you might as well say the season's over now. 
Two days later. South Bend had its first snowfall. Not more than a few flakes, but some saw it as an omen. Notre Dame had known last spring that its 1969 cam­paign was split in two. The Irish who tied Southern Cal were not the same guys ^vho were crushed by Purdue. But they could not prove it against five remaining foes whose combined record at this point was 8-17. On Wednesday of Tulane week, precisely at mid-season, autumn tinned to winter at Notre Dame. 
Saturday night in the Sugar Bowl, though, it was summer again—partly cloudy, 70 degrees, warm breeze. 
linebacker Rick Klingrea had Barz locked up tight. Theis­mann continued to scramble, but there were not six yards to be made at the right sideline. 
Meanwhile, on the opposite side of the field, tight end Dewey Poskon was lying flat on his back. Poskon had thrown a block on Wave defensive end Bryan Duck. Now, as the entire Tulane defense pursued Theismann, Dewey got off the turf, hitched up his pants and floated downfield—unaccompanied. Theismann spotted Poskon's flailing arms and zipped it across field. Result: A 27­yard gain to the enemy 32. 
The Wave broke. From there, it was Barz for 13, Denny Allan for eight, Barz for two, Ziegler for seven, Ziegler for two and a touchdown. 
Period No. 2 was more of same. Mike McCoy forced a Tulane fumble and Bob Olson, his partner-in-destruc­tion, recovered 28 yards from paydirt. Five rushing plays later, it was 14-0. Notre Dame traveled 69 yards for its third score. Clarence Ellis intercepted a Tulane aerial, putting Scott Hempel in shape for a 33-yard field goal just before halftime. 24-0. 
Ef\RLY in the final period, there came the season's most curious play. It was second-and-six at the Tulane 27. Wave fullback Jack Laborde hit left tackle where he was stopped for no gain by ND's Mike Zikas. The play had been whistled dead a full two seconds when quarter­back Dave Abercrombie unloaded a vicious block on Irish linebacker John Raterman, who was standing with hands on hips, watching Laborde and Zikas unpile. 
Co-captain Olson walked over toward Raterman, who still hadn't made a move against Abercrombie. Then, inexplicably, Tulane center Chip DeWitt jumped on Olson's back and wrapped a right forearm around Bobo's neck. Flags went down. The officials saw it. B-B-B-But . . . but, but wh-wh-what's this? They're marching off 15 yards against Notre Dame! 
Referee Donald Orr jogged over to the Irish bench, ostensibly to clarify his call. Orr arrived at the sideline and a Notre Dame assistant immediately opined that he (Orr) had made an improper judgment. Whereupon, Orr blew the sixth personal foul of the night and awarded Tulane another 15 yards. 
That ^\'as only preliminary action, however. After the game, Ara decreed no curfew and turned his team loose on poor, defenseless New Orleans. How did they respond? Well, suffice it to say that some of the boys weren't back to the hotel in time for breakfast Sunday 
mommar. 
A OR NEARLY the entire first period, ND squirmed and struggled to untrack itself. Twice, Notre Dame punted to Tulane. On their third series, the Irish faced a third-and-six dilemma at the ND 31. Quarterback Joe Theis­mann called a flat pass to fullback Bill Barz, a play they had worked with spectacular success to date. 
Theismann faked to halfback Ed Ziegler and rolled right as Barz slipped into the flat. But Green Wave 
Notre  Dame  7  17  7  fr—37  
Tulane  0  0  0  0— 0  
ND—Ziegler, 2-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Huff, 4-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—^HufF, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—^Hempel, 33-yard field goal. ND—^Allan, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—^AUan, 1-yard run.  

With the sophisticated intelligence of young men to­day, there is OTily one avenue of approach that Ara has ever used. It is a straightfoiward, truthful, "tell it like it is" type of situation. Tulane was not on a par with other teams such as Southern Cal, Michigan State, etc. Still, they played a fiery contest. The disturbing part of the Tulane game is that we were penalized 85 yards . . . almost the equivalent of our total in the first five games. We honestly felt there were some very poor calls and that, in fact, many tactics were overlooked and not called at all. All of that being what it is, we did. win, although 
we dislike ever to be branded with high-penalty frequency. Ara has said of our next opponent that they have not been winning, they are having a down year, but they did upset and shut out Virginia 10-0 last week. They again come to South Bend with high spirits, expectations and plans. I seriously doubt if we will be able to get really up for this one. We really don't expect to. This is not out of disrespect for an opponent. It is because, as much as we dislike the "tab," this is a game that we should be able to win. To tell our young men otherwise is to deal in cheap tactics. They understand that we are favored, but that this only means we must perform capably . . . not relaxed . . . not up in the clouds . . . just work . . . defend . . . score . . . and win it. Somehow the word "bowl" fills the rumor circles. We must fight off looking beyond one game at a time and take each team in its turn. We really feel we have steadily progressed and our 
players are aware of this solid feeling. Bring on Navy! 
Navy 0 0 0 0— 0 Notre Dame 7 26 14 0—4-7 
ND—Gatewood, 35-yard pass from Theismann (Hempelkick). ND—^Allan, 1-yard run. ND—^Theismann, 46-yard run. ND—Allan, fumble recovery in end zone. ND—^HufF, 7-yard run (Ziegler run). ND—^Etter, 15-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Etter, 79-yard run (Hempel kick). 






Yeah, 
hvt 

Game 6 ND 47, Navy 0 
HIS Naval psychology was beginning to follow a pattern. 
In 1967, prior to the Irish-Middie game in ND Sta­dium, Nav}' coach Bill Elias proclaimed his signal-caller, John Cartwright, "the best college quarterback in the country." 
Ara Parseghian quoted Elias at Friday's pep rally and the faithful responded \vith "Terry, Terry, Terry, Terry, Terry. Coley, Coley, Coley, Coley, Goley. Belden, Belden, Belden, Belden, Belden." 
Sixty-minute comparisons are unfair because Han-ratty played the first two quarters, O'Brien handled most of the second half and Belden quarterbacked only one series of downs. 
FIRST HALF 
Att. Comp. Yards Int. TD Tot.Off. 
Hanratty 14 8 149 0 1 153 
Cartwright 12 4 34 1 0 61 
SECONTD HALF Cartwright 14 6 75 0 0 108 O'Brien 3 1 47 0 0 87 Belden 0 0 0 0 0 17 
GAME Cartwright 26 10 109 1 0 169 Irish QBs 17 9 196 0 1 257 
In 1969, the new Navy coach was Rick Forzano, a more respectful fellow than Elias. His pre-game appraisal: "I've been watching the Notre Dame-Southern California film and that's the greatest collection of talent I've ever seen on a college football field. We'd have to play five to 10 times above our capabilities and Notre Dame would 
The Scholastic 

have to be sub-par for us to Avin." 
There was a brazen statesman on the '69 squad, though. He was Karl Schwelm, a tight end whose big moment had come two weeks earlier when he dropped a game-winning TD pass against Rutgers. 
Perhaps to atone for that debacle, Schwelm announced that teammate Mike McNallen "is one of the five best quarterbacks in college football.'" 
It was a prodigious statement—ranking right up there with George Wallace's "I will be your next president," Hitler's "Why can't we invade Russia?" and Sonny Liston's "I'll kill that kid Clay." 
Again this year, Notre Dame divided the quarter­backing among three players. Post-game stats looked strangely familiar: 
Att. Comp. Yards Int. TD Tot.Off. 
Theismann  7  3  123  0  1  192  
Etter  1  0  0  0  0  140  
Gores  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Irish  QBs  8  o3  123  0  1  332  
McNallen  31  11  74  3  0  66  


In other phases of the game, the contrast was about as vivid. Notre Dame stacked up 720 yards in total offense (an all-time ND record), to Navy's 93. 
N. AVY'S deepest penetration came four plays after the opening kickoff as Middle tackle Mike Simpson fell on a Denny Allan fumble at the Irish 19. McNallen moved his team one yard in three downs, then spotted the ball as kicker Jack Detweiler missed a 33-yard field goal. 
Notre Dame got its first score on a "lope-and-go" pass pattern installed especially for this game. On second and six from the enemy 35, ND split Tom Gatewood left and kept three backs in. Gatewood got single cov­erage from Navy cornerback Dave Walla. Theismann made a fine play-action fake to Ed Ziegler who rammed left tackle, running directly at Walla. Gatewood loped into the secondary, pretending to be out of the play. Walla came up a step to defense the run. But, suddenly, 
Theismann had the ball and Gatewood w-as nmninsc ^ deep post. 7-0. The other six Irish scores were slightly less spectacular-Three were notable: 
—Reserve quarterback Bill Etter ripped off ND's longest play of the year, a well-blocked 79-yard jaunt. —^Theismann dived theatricallv into the end zone tcy 
complete a 46-yard rollout. 
—^Theismann rambled 18 yards on a broken play, fumbled on the sroal line and watched Allan recover in the end zone. 
Otherwise, there was nothing more than brutal foot­ball to entertain Homecominsr fans. ND's offensive line, averaging 247 pounds from tackle to tight end, easilr manipulated a Navy defensive front which went only 196 pounds per man. 
Forzano summarized it well: "If we had to prepare for this game all over again, the only thing we could do is give our kids speed pills and power pills. It could have been worse than it was out there todav. Thev had women and children in there the fourth quarter; Par­seghian's a class guy. Notre Dame, Texas and Penn State are all No. 2 in the countn% right behind Ohio State." 
University of Pittsburgh coach Bob Timmons, scout­ing the game, said, "I'd say Notre Dame is three times as strong as Syracuse. Notre Dame's second team kicked the pants off Navy, and it wasn't even a ball game imtil they put in their third team." 
One Irish player said flatly, "They (the Middies) aren't even a good high school team." 
As for Karl Schwelm, well, Karl still wasn't convinced. Slumped in front of his locker, peeling tape off his calves, Karl vowed, "I really meant it when I said McNaUen is one of the best five quarterbacks in the country. No, I don't think Theismann and Etter are in the same class with him." 
If that statement be true, then Karl Schwelm is the top tight end in America. 
Poskon, Poskon, Poskon, Poskon, Poskon. Lawson, Lawson, Lawson, Lawson, Lawson. Williams, Williams, Williams, Williams, Williams. 
A sideline vantage point is always interesting. "Touchdown Jesus" peers through Stadium's north gate. 
Dec. 5, 1969 


Hello, This is Tokyo Joe 
If there is any truth to the adage that "you never 
have to worry about a worrier" we should win over Pitt. 
Frankly, they worry me. They have equal size and, in 
some places, more speed: they have picked up momentum 
and have echoed high feelings to a large Pitt crowd of 
an upset. None of this is any different than our weekly 
agenda, except we are now receiving the late-season 
'"jiick/' of injury that riddle football teams. 
Larry DiNardo, who has been a tremendous offensive 
guard, has suffered muscle tear in his lower right leg: 
Terry Breyuian at offensive right tackle is bruised and 
sore from his shoulder region. Dewey Poskon has a more 
serious case of this malady usually prevalent in offensive 
linemen. Poskon might miss the last three games and is 
definitely out for Pitt. On defense, Tim Kelly is ques­
tionable with a bruised shoulder. 
We must play Pitt without the fumbles of our Navy game and our 7iear-comf)lacent first-quarter performance. 
The defense has two shutouts in a row and will be 
trying hard for its third. But Pitt's offense has consid­
erable balance and will surely test them. 

Offensively, it will not be a game in which we can howl people over. Their size and style do not allow it. Carl DePasqua, Pitt's new coach, has engineered a gam­bling-type defense. You can look pretty bad on most plays because of their continual blitzing, but, by the same strategy, you allow yourself to get "burned" on a big play. I hope we can get enough of that kind. 
Pitt, having just beaten Syracuse, will not be easy. Winning the game will be important as all games are, but more important is that we have struggled hard to improve since our early-season loss to Purdue and tie with Southern Cal. All of the progress drains away unless we continue to win. 
Game 8 

ND 49, Pittsburgh 7 

Through tlie cardboard-thin wall of Pitt Stadium's press box boomed a large voice, speaking the words of a combination radio broadcaster-irate fan. 
The voice belonged to Notre Dame assistant coach Joe Yonto, known to his players as "Tokyo Joe." Yonto is as much a football specialist as the barefoot kicker or the 23unt returner. Each Saturday, he and fellow-coach Wally Moore "spot" the opponent for Ara Parseghian and staff. 
Yonto's task, specifically, is to tell the bench: 

1.
 Just what the hell's going on. (A sideline view is that bad.) 

2.
 Offensive plays which might beat the opponent and defensive variations which might confuse him. 


But Yonto does a little more. He spices the com­mentary \vith laughter, exhortations, mild profanities, criticism, etc. Here is a sample of "Yonto-ese" during Notre Dame's 49-7 romp over Pittsburgh. 
24 
FIRST QUARTER 
(As ND drives to its first touchdown, Yonto tries to establish the position of Pitt rover back Geoff Brown, number 47.) "47's not sure where he's going, but he's the guy to watch. Our formations have him screwed up. He doesn't know where to go. . . . (On first-and-goal for ND at the Pitt 8 yardline.) Anything outside is going to go, 'cause they're just pinching like hell on short yard­age. . . . Okay, okay, four-yard gain. We're on the 4, second down. Anything outside." (Denny Allan sweeps left end to give the Irish a 7-0 lead.) 

(Panther Dave Gamett returns the kickoff 16 yards to the 28.) "Okay, let's go gang. Get him, get him, get him. Oooo, he almost got away. . . . (Freidl rolls right rmd hits wingback Steve Moyer.) Oh Patulski, my God. Patulski got cut down with a roll block and the quarter­back just rolled to his side. . . . (Tight end Bill Pilconis takes a seven-yard flip from Freidl.) Check that delay to the tight end. They're sending the halfback out to tie up our linebacker and then the tight end is delaying over the middle. Tliey're going with the short outs and they're picking us up. And our ends are getting chopped like nothin'. . . . (Notre Dame holds Pitt on the Irish 5 yardline.) Okay, okay, but we gotta pick 'em up in the front line. Both ends are just sittin' there. They're tenible, just walking through the motions." 
(Pitt moves into a six-man defensive line on first-and­10 for the Irish at their 5.) "Blitz is comin'. Yeah, you could really see it. Anything outside is gonna go. Looks like they're in free safety. . . . Okay, third-and-one. (Denny Allan gets the first down.) He got it. Okay. . . . It's a five-man front now. Oklahoma defense. (Bill Bai-z bursts through right tackle for 13 yards.) Oh, one more guy and he'd have been gone. Is 47 in there? I can't find him. . . . (Theismann keeps for no gain.) Run it, Joe. Oh, he had a man Avide open down there. . . . (Tom Gatewood takes a Theismann pass 29 yards for Notre Dame's second score.) Go, Tom, go. He's in, he's in. Great job, gi-eat job. . . . 
"Are they alert for the return? Do they know \vhich side? (Once again, Pitt's Garnett nearly breaks a kickoff return.) Get him, get him. Oh. Look out. God bless it. Looked like he \vas going to go again. . . , (Ferns gets five yards at left tackle.) Oh, gees. Just a simple dive play and they get five yards. Kadish was knocked down and Swede overran him. Damn it. They're asleep, George. They're going through the motions. . . . (Pitt nearly com­pletes another tight end-delay pass.) There's the same thing again. You see that 22 goin' dowTi? Okay, then the tight end is comin' across behind him. (Pitt con­tinues to drive and Yonto suggests a change in defense.) What's the matter with triple-free zone? Huh? Why don't we go to triple-free? They know we're in man. They're gonna pick us apart all day. (Pitt split end George Medich takes a 35-yard pass from Freidl.) He (Medich) just went straight upfield. Put in a substitute for Stepaniak. . . . Second-and-five. . . . Just a fullback toss. We gotta wake up. . . . Same thing outside. We better wake up or we're gonna be defeated. Sure. We're 
The Scholastic 

gi\in them momentum. We think all we gotta do is walk on the field. No, they're just walkin' out there. . . . (Pitt scores to make it 14-7.) We gotta get awake. We come off that field with our heads hangin'. We don't have any fire at all. Somebody get 'em together down there. Paul (Coach Paul Shoults) or somebody. They look like stray sheep. Patulski looks like a weak sister over there. What the hell's the matter? Our defense just psyched them into a helluva game. We caused all this momentum for them." 
SECOND QUARTER (Notre Dame marches again.) "Six-one defense, but nobody's catching the middle backei-. . . . (Theismann finds Huflf with a 10-yard pass on fourth-and-five from the Pitt 18.) Oh, what a throw. All you have to do is roll with them." (HufiTs next reception makes it 21-7). Beautiful, beautiful. (On the ensuing kickofl:", Irish linebacker Eric Patton narrowly misses a sensational tackle.) "Come on, come on. Oh, hotshot Patton missed him at the 15. . . ." (On first down, Freidl's pass is intercepted by ND linebacker John Ratemian.) "Good catch by Raterman. That was a \vaggle to northern side and they tried to throw to the second receiver. Waggle-throw back is what it was. (Waggle means roll-out. Northern is the far side of the field, as seen from ND's bench; southern is the near side.) We got that waggle covered? It looked like their back might have been open, but the ball \vas underthrowTi. Tell Stepaniak." (Notre Dame returns to the attack as Allan ciixles right end for eight yards.) "Looks like anything outside is going to get yards for us. You notice how they're cover­ing Gatewood? Yeah, awful close. I think he could have 
been gone that time. . . . (Ziegler hits right end for seven yards.) If what's his name, 56, DiNardo—if he'd have gotten a block downfield, Ziegler would have been in. . . . (Allan slants over left tackle and barely crosses the plane of the goal line to make it 28-7.) He's over. Yeah, he's over. Gome on, let's bust their back. And watch that return, George (speaking to coach George Kelly). Now there's 3:29 to halftime. Tell them to be alert for the bomb and watch for screens. . . . (Chuck Zloch misses a tackle on the kickoflf return.) Oh Zloch, my God. Zloch should have had him at the 12 and missed him." 
(Pitt shows a spread formation on first down.) "Double wing. He's gonna go double wing and bomb, George. We better go to triple-free. Triple-free zone. . . . Rollin' right, rollin' right. That's it. Oh, he lost him. Swede lost him. Kick him in the fanny. That's ridicu­lous. . . . (Pitt lines up in punt formation on fourth down, but kicker Dave McGrath throws a pass. Irish linebacker Jim Wright has a clear shot at an interception at the Panther 45, but drops the ball. Thus, NT) takes over on downs at the enemy 26.) Smart play. Attaboy. That's the smartest play I've seen all year. Hey George, you got everything? I'm comin' down." 
THIRD QUARTER 

(Pitt continues to have success with trap plays.) "Trap. Right over McCoy. Tell Mike they're splitting the guard and then they're going with the trap. Tell him to shut that trap oflf. . . . (Now the defense responds as Clarence Ellis drops Ferris for a three-yard loss.) Good job of turning it in by Ellis. Veiy well played. (On third-and-10, Bobo Olson sacks Pitt QB Frank Gus-tine for a six-yard deficit.) Olson. Set up by Patulski. Patulski flushed him. But when they come off, kick Swendsen in the fanny and kick Patulski in the fanny." 
FOURTH QUARTER (The victory assured. Yon to lights a cigar and be­seeches a fan.) "Hey buddy, hey buddy. Would you go over and get us four hot dogs? Here. Thanks. (As Pitt struggles to regain the scoreboard, Yonto spots an infrac­tion.) Aw, he was clipped! He called it, he called it. Put 'em back, put 'em back 15 yards. He clipped Neidert. . . . Tell them to watch the screen, coach. We can pick off a screen down here." (As Jim Yoder pimts, Yonto finds another penalty.) "Roughing the kicker! He called it. (Yonto addresses himself to Pitt return specialist Charlie Hall.) Go ahead, pick it lip and fumble it, buddy." (Yonto and A'loore are less talkative as Notre Dame runs out the clock. Late in the final period, Moore is heard to say, "What? I don't know. I can't see. This cigar smoke is killin' me.") 
Notre Dame  14  21  14  0—4-9  
Pittsburgh  7  0  0  0 —7  
ND—Allan, 4-yard run (Hempel kick).  

ND—Gatewood, 29-yard pass from Theismann (Hempelkick). P—^Moyer, 6-yard pass from Freidl (Cramer kick). ND—^HufF, 10-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick). ND—^Allan, 3-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Gatewood, 3-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick). ND—^Allan, 18-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—Etter, 26-yard run (Hempel kick). 
Fred Swendsen greets Pitt QB Dave Freidl. 



Southern DisGomfort 
We will be playing Georgia Tech late Saturday night, 
9:30 on national television. Some of our players have minor colds, are visibly tired from the long haul and are playing at weights nearly 10 to 15 pounds lighter than at the season's start. 
We are two games away from having a really standout year. We definitely have improved, but dare not let up now. 
The recruiting season and tons of correspondence are starting to mount up. Each coach is receiving names from iiiterested people who obviously know talent when they see it. Some of the descriptions used are actually funny: "This boy is a must"; "this one is more powerful than ": "He's 6-6, 220 pounds and an honor student 
who  wa7its to  become  a  priest  . . .  hut  he's  really  mean  
on  the field  . . . and  he's my nephew  . . . and J lie a  little  
when  I'm  excited."  
Still,  we  try  to  hold  of  those  thi?igs  of  tomorrow  
until  today's  chores  are  finished.  

Game 9 
ND 38, Georgia Tech 20 
GEORGiA TEC H week was replete with action — both in South Bend and in Atlanta. Bowl-fever was cresting and Irish players began to suspect that Ara knew something. Said one, "He (Parseghian) was laughing and telling jokes on Monday. Then on Tuesday, he kept us out there (with snow on the ground) over two hours for a 'live' scrimmage. Nobody else in the country goes two hours or scrimmages this time of year. There must be a reason for it. I think there's a 60 to 70 per cent chance we'll go to a bowl. Ara said we'll know one way or the other by Monday." 
Somewhere, the sun was shining, but certainly not in Tech-ville. The Yellowjackets' proud football heritage had been tarnished in the two years since Bud Carson became head coach. Now, ignominy of ignominies—a week before the ND invasion, Tech bowed 14-7 to Tulane. That decision set Carson's record at 11-17 and infuriated the student body. However, athletic director Bobby Dodd 
(who compiled a 165-64-8 mark in the 22 years preceding Carson's reign) dismissed the Tulane defeat and extended Bud's contract through 1970. 
N. OTRE DAME'S defense took command very early, re­covering two fumbles and intercepting four passes in the first half. Three of the pass thefts turned into big gainers —Clarence Ellis went 70 yards for a touchdown, John Gasser set up a field goal with his 57-yard return and Ralph Stepaniak sailed 51 yards after his second swipe of the game. Teeh countered with a 100-yard, interception-return touchdown by Bill Ford. ND led 31-6 at half time. 
The Irish relaxed after inteiTnission, but Tech fans 
were just gaining momentum. Notre Dame's bench was 
directly in front of the Tech students. They hurled un­
opened cans of Coke, whisky bottles, cardboard squares, 
dead fish and tightly packed cups of ice. 
Moments after the game ended, Parseghian was con­fronted by Tash Van Dora, a senior Wrecker back who has played little this year after lettering in both his sophomore and junior seasons. "I had just shaken Ara's hand and we weren't five yards onto the field when this kid came running over," coach George Kelly recalls. "I didn't know if he was going to hit Ara or not, but I grabbed his shoulder and spun him around." Parseghian continued to walk away as Van Dora cut loose a streak of "the dirtiest langxiasre I've ever heard on a football field," in Ara's words. 
"Tash has apologized to Coach Carson and offered to write a letter to Coach Parseghian, if necessary," said Dodd. As in most cases of this type, there are two sides to the story. We have fairly good evidence from our players that the Notre Dame coaches were making a few speeches of their own to our boys. (Shoults and Kelly vigorously deny this statement.) But I'm not making any accusa­tions. I think it's in very bad taste to come back and say, 'Notre Dame was guilty, too.' We know we're wrong and we apologize." 
Dodd said Van Dora and his classmates may have been irritated by Parseghian's strategy late in the contest. Leading 38-20, the Irish kept their first unit in, attempted to pass on seven of the game's final nine plays and twice called time out during that last drive. 
"I must say I resented it," Dodd revealed. "The man (Parseghian) obviously had us beat to a pulp. I know I never did such a thing in my 22 years as a head coach. But that's his business. I know he wanted a bowl bid, he was on national television, he has a jillion alumni to please in Atlanta and he wanted to be impressive in his victory over Georgia Tech." 
At Notre Dame, Dodd's letters were received and filed away. Kelly said, "We hurt them most with our class. They thought we'd come back with their type of tactics, but our guys showed great class under pressure. I do have one regret, though. Unfortunately, Van Dora is a senior and we will not have a chance to face him next year." 
Notre Dame 21 10 7 0—38 
Georgia Tech 0 6 0 14—20 
ND—Gatewood, 16-yard pass from Theismann (Hempelkick). 
ND—^Theismann, 13-yard run (Hempel kick). 
ND—Ellis, 70-yard interception return (Hempel kick). 
ND—Hempel, 25-yard field goal. 
ND—^Huff, 1-yard run (Hempel kick). 
GT—^Ford, 100-yard interception return. 
ND—Theismann, 8-yard run (Hempel kick). . 
GT—^Lam, 28-yard pass from Hoffman. 
GT—^Bounds, 1-yard run (Lam pass from O'Neill). 
The Scholastic 


A Falcon Grounded Is A Thing Of Beauty 
QB Bob Parker searches 
The bowl now being an actuality lends a psychological 

possibility of overlooking our next and last opponent. 
Air Force Academy. They are very skilled in the pass 
game and have the third-best record of any opponent we 
have played. As tired and drained as everyone gets at 
this stage of any season, we must rally for a last-ditch 
effort to maintain our winning ways. 
Ed Zieglefs knee probably will not allow play any 

?nore this year. Terry Brennan had knee surgery only 
yesterday and Jim Reilly is questionable with a pinched 
shoulder nerve. Andy Huff is suffering from a similar 
bruise to his shoulder and may not see much action. 
And Dewey Poskon is still sidelined. 
Neither Ara nor the rest of the staff even dares men­

tion the Cotton Bowl game. It is too far removed and 
too dangerous to dwell on. We must, somehow—with 
''ingenuity," "player effort and morale"—put one last ef­
fort together for the job we must get done against Air 
Force. 
If we can accomplish this task, our season will have 

great meaning. Our group of Notre Dame men will have 
overcome much adversity, an early loss, fantastic injuries, 
mounting pressure and inexperience. Regardless of what 
happens, we as a staff are truly proud of the rare and 
raw courage . . . the sacrifice . . . the heartwarming man­
hood of each member of this Notre Dame team. And it 
is that . . . a true Notre Dame team! 


Game 10 ND 13, Air Force 6 

W ITHOUT that one play, it could have been a dif­ferent ball game," suggested Air Force coach Ben Martin. 
"That one play" came early and lasted throughout the game—a 39-yard touchdown burst by Denny Allan at 12:57 of the first period. Credit Irish right guard Gary Kos and right tackle Chuck Kennedy with fine blocking at the point of attack, and split end Tom Gatewood with sood interference downfield. Falcon linebackers Phil Bauman and Glen Leimbach had taken themselves out 
with Falcon-like calm. 

of the play by stunting outside. Once Allan popped the hole, he was into the secondary. "We never used that stunt the rest of the day," said Martin. "They simply caught us in a technical efror." 
From there, Notre Dame's badly crippled offense mustered only two fields goals, but the defense was plenty clutch. Irish turnovers gave the Falcons field position in ND territory five times. But Air Force, for the first time in two years, failed to score a touchdown. 
Premiere among Notre Dame's defensive efforts was a series late in the third period. Trailing 13-3, Air Force fell on an Ed Gulyas fumble at the ND 18 and moved to the 9 yardline on two downs. First Tim Kelly, on third-and-one, then Bob Neidert. on fourth-and-eisrht. slammed Falcon quarterback Bob Parker for losses back to the 24. 
OEASON-END relief had struck Joe Theismann as he slipped into a pair of blue bell-bottoms and related a no-no he had done to coach Wally Moore immediately after the game. 
"He was standing over there by the showers, talking to some friends. So I sneaked up from behind and poured Coke on his head. You should have seen him." 
Even as Theismann talked, Moore approached. "Hey, thanks, Joe," he said, patting his head. "Thanks 
a lot." "Sorry, coach," Theismann laughed. "We better not go down to Dallas and play like .we 
did today. You proud of that?" "No sir, coach." "I'll tell you what I am proud of: 8-1-1. You proud 
of that?" "Yes, sir," said Joe Theismann. "Yes, sir. You bet." 
Air Force 0 0 6 3— 6 Notre Dame 7 6 0 0—13 
ND—^AUan, 39-yard run (Hempel kick). ND—^Hempel, 22-yard field goal. ND—^Hempel, 25-yard field goal. AF—^Leuthauser, 28-yard field goal. AF—^Leuthauser, 37-yard field goal. 
Dec. 5, 1969 



Parseghian 
In the past six years, no coach has ^von more regular season college football games than Ara Parseghian. His record is an incredible 48-8-4. On pages 32 and 33, Mrs. Kathleen Parseghian talks about those six years in a story by Greg Stidham. On pages 29 and 30, Ara, himself, drops back a few yards to sun^ey college football . . . and suggests a few changes for Year No. 101. 
The Scholastic 
ii A True Measurement 
of the Game'^ 
I HAVE been particularly pleased 
•with a number of rules which the NCAA has adopted in recent years. When the free substitution rule finally came, it gave us an opportunity to play platoon football. Now we can give more youngsters the chance to play a skill for which they're best suited. Free substitution has opened up the game. We have higher scoring today than we've ever had. 
A more recent chano^e, which re­quires the clock to be stopped after each first down, is another excellent rule because it has added immeasur­ably to the time of the game as well as the number of plays. In 1968, we averaged more than 90 plays per game; we averaged almost 87 this year with a young, inexperienced of­fensive football team. 
There are a couple things in foot­ball which I think bear consideration. One of them is what I teiin the "cheapest 20 yards in football." For example, Team A can drive from its own 20 yardline and move into Team B's four-down territoiy (inside the opponent's 40 yardline). In the event that Team A is stopped on the 35 yardline, the only way to score is by kicking a long field goal of ap­proximately 52 yards. Team A's other choice is to try what we call a "bunt punt"—pinning the opponent deep in its own territory by kicking within the 10 yardline and downing the ball. 
However, if this punt carries into the end zone, Team B benefits from what I call the "cheapest 20 yards in football." The ball moves out to the 20 yardline, first-and-10 for Team B. Statistics will reveal that Team A put together a 45-yard drive, but Team A's dominance is not reflected on the scoreboard. I would like to see the NCAA adopt a rule similar to the rouge which is employed in Canadian professional football. If Team A could punt the ball into the endzone. Team B would have to run it out without being tackled in the end zone, or else Team A would be given one point. This would add scoring to the game 
Dec. 5, 1969 
••;<^^ 
#­

and, possibly, serve as a tie-breaker in close games. 
I've also been concerned with the relative cheapness of a field goal. Many teams today have a boy with the particular skill to kick the ball as far as 55 or 60 yards for a field goal. Team A misfht work like the devil driving down the field for six points, while Team B can get three points merely by kicking the ball 50 yards over the heads of Team A's defenders. That is not really a tme measurement of the game. 
Challenge Bowl 

j| _ HAVE tried to take a very realistic view on the possibility of determin­ing a true National Champion in college football. A championship play­off is a very idealistic way of deter­mining which is the best team. Everv' conference would demand representa­tion'for its champion and, very likely, there would be at least five major independents seeking spots in a cham­pionship playoff field. 
I am interested in two innovations. First, I'd like to see a Challenge Bowl. This would pit the No. 1 and No. 2.teams in the country. It could be played in mid-December, two weeks after the concusion of the sea­son. Thus, it would not interfere with the traditional New Year's Day bowl 
games. Determining the teams to play in such a game could be done by poll or by computer. Say there were four or five unbeaten teams in a given 
year; computei^s could decide which two teams had the most difficult schedules, which team had the best offense and defense, etc. 
Secondly. I doubt very much that we'll ever have a championship play­off in college football. The likelihood is remote. Thus, we could take our ne.xt-best measurements of collesjc football sujjeriority—the polls—and u]jgrade them with the .sophisticated comjjuiers we ha\e today. We could give the computer a complete analy.sis of each team—varda2:e "aincd. dc­fensixe competence, difficulty of sched­ule, scores, won-loss lecord. Risfht now. our JDOHS are based almost en­tii-ely on whether a team wins of loses. There is a small degree of schedule consideration, but not in the true sense that it could be evaluated bv a computer. I'd like to see a group of mathematicians sit down and analyze the problem. I think we"d come up with a more acciuate Top 20 than we have today. 
Xevertheless. I believe verv firmly in the polls. I think they're a gi'eat wav to stimulate interest in colleare football. Anvtiiing that crives the fans something to talk about is most helpful to the game. 

Eliminating Ties 

XA.FTJ;R you've played 60 minutes, I'd like to see a winner and a loser. But does another five mintites or an­other quarter necessarily mean that the superior team will win? This is a veiy difficult question. I really don't have the answer. 
We have been jrreatlv concerned at Notre Dame about the s;eneral reac­tion to tie games. Some newspaper­men have unjustly criticized strate­gical decisions we have made. They have distorted the facts on a number of occasions. Our most recent tie, with Southern Clalifornia, doesn't even merit second-oiiessintr in mv opinion. There were nearly seven minutes left to play in the ball game when we got our second touchdown and that is ample time to score again. AVe kicked the extra point and elimi­nated the burden of being behind. That made it a new ball ramc and gave us a psychological advantage that people can't measure. We had a 20 mile-per-hour wind at our back and momentum on our side. It's amazing to me that people sit back and second guess a decision that 98 to 99 percent of the coaches in this countiy would liave made. 
Notre Dame and yoin-s truly have always played to win football games. If you look at my record, you'll find only si.x ties, which is far imder the average for coaches completing their 19th year. We've been saddled with this criticism that is so unjust to our coaches and players. We make de­cisions in the best interest of otir foot­ball team. We go out to WIN, not tie. 

Officiating 

ITHINK we have a dedicated group of people who do the officiating, but they have the same problems coaches have. We start a season lioping to be 10-0, a perfect record, the best a team can be. An official, too, can't be any better than 100%. Unfortunately, the officials do not have to account for their lack of perfection. The coaches are subject to criticism and second-guessing. We have to meet the press and meet the alumni to explain all the strategical reasoning which went into a ball game. Yet, an official, if he makes a mistake, has to answer to no one outside the commissioner's office. 
I don't see any reason why the officials shouldn't have a press con­ference just like the coaches do. Ctu­rently. there is an NCAA rule which prohibits officials from commenting on game decisions. But why shouldn't the press be allowed to ask them how and why critical decisions were made. If they're going to assume the re­sponsibility of officiating a game, there isn't any reason why they shouldn't have to face the same people we ha\e to face. 
This is our livelihood, our job. Our future often hangs in the balance of a good or poor decision by an official. r\-c ne\'er felt that we have dishonest officials. We may have incompetent officials with extremely poor judge­ment and improper knowledge of the rules. I've seen this type of official, as well as some excellent ones who could handle a game under pressure from fans and coaches. 
I tmderstand that they can't be any better than perfect and I sympa­thize with their problems. But I also feel that they should be available to the writers, especially when one offi­cial's call is instrumental in the out­come of a same. 
%^.#­

*0^»^g,S 
I • .A 
'•^-•' 
--^-^ 
'W 
/^0 


Ara Parseghian: 48-8-4 



The Lady of the House at 1326 E. Washington 
To his team, he is at once a merciless taskmaster and a leader. To the students he is a god and a scapegoat. To his family . . . ? SCHOLASTIC tries to answer this ques­tion about Ara Parseghian, one of Notre Dame's most familiar and most intriguing individuals through an inter­view with one who should know — his wife. 
HE WALK leading up to the modern house on East Washington Avenue is neat. Well trimmed. The powder-blue Thunderbird perches at the top of the drive; the newer LTD is frequently gone. 
The Pai:seghian home is large, obviously upper middle class, and yet unpretentious. Ringing tlie doorbell evokes a noisy response from the three dogs—^Muffin, Brigette, and Jezebel. The first two are poodles ("At first Ara didn't like them—too feminine.") : Jezebel is of indeter­minable origin, ^ven to the family by Bob Olson. 
But these seemingly typical walls conceal a life that is often anything but typical. On football Saturdays the home is swelled by visiting relatives and friends as the family tries to maintain its daily routine. The closest the day approaches to nonnalcy, however, is the juice-and­rolls breakfast and a lunch of chili and hot dogs. The chaos which ensues reflects the atmosphere of haste which has characterized the Parseghians' relationship since they first met. 
Football has always been an integral part of their lives. Mrs. Parseghian was an avid fan of her high school team in Greenfield, Ohio, a small town of 5,000, just east of Martinsville and north of Wilmington. When her edu­cational pursuits shifted from high school to college, so did her football loyalties—to the Redskins of Miami, Ohio. And it was here that she met a member of those Redskins—^Ara Parsearhian, her future husband. 
Football took on a different aura when she began going A\'ith one of the players. There were moments of anxiety and fear. Times of despair and triumph. And these were but a preview of the feelings she was to ex­perience as the wife of a Cleveland Brown, a Brown whose career was, unfortunately, cut short by a hip injury before it even began. 
It was the year of this injury that Ara Parseghian was offered a position as freshman football coach at Miami U., a position he accepted, despite his earlier pro­testations that "he never wanted anything to do with coaching." Thus was launched the career of Ara Par­seghian. Subsequent promotions to head coach at Miami and Northwestern blazed the trail to the home of the Fighting Irish. 
The Scholastic 
'J^' ARSEGHiA'N • accepted his challenge after four of the worst drought years in Irish football history. The new 
• coach's immediate-rprobleras-were to restore confidence and to rebuild a winner amid the ruins of rare Irish defeat. His potential was recognized, but little was ex­pected of his teams—for a while, at any rate. But Ara pulled his first of several suiprises in 1964, compiling an amazing 9-0 record and a No. 1 rating, only to drop the finale with less than two minutes to play, a 20-17 heart-breaker to Southern Cal. 
Nevertheless, Ara had begun a triumphant career at 
Notre Dame and completed a season which Mrs. Par­
seghian calls, in retrospect, the highlight of her football 
experiences. And so she looks back on the tears and the 
smiles shared with her husband, on a life in which foot­
ball has had, admittedly or not, indeterminable influence. 
As a family whose head is in the national limelight, 
the Parseghians find themselves sharing a large portion 
of the publicity, be it press conferences and dinner ban­
quets or crank phone calls. Mrs. Parseghian tells of many 
long-distance collect calls, including one from a "Jack 
Snow," who turned out to be no one more than another 
avid fan. Only recently the family "has made a new 
friend who calls up at least twice a day, only to hang up." 
Then there are the letters, many of them not so pleasant, 
which often prompt the othei-wise gi-acious lady to scribble 
an angry reply. 
Probably the most taxing part of the football life is 
the demanding hours. Ara has yet to see his son Mike 
play freshman ball at Adams High School in South 
Bend. And the demanding hours continue from August 
through the winter and spring months, till June, when 
finally he can take up his putter during the day and 
spend the evenings with his family. 
But the Parseghian home is not all confusion, nor is it an all man's world. Karen, a sophomore at Miami, and Chris, a senior at Adams High, add their touches of femininity to that of Mrs. Parseghian. In fact, the females outnumber the ^ales, and they are much less afraid of the coach than his players are. 
And, so Ara.Parseghian's dual life as husband/father and as football coach remains inextricably interwoven, one always influencing the other. Yet he must keep the two roles distinct, and for this reason the Parseghian house­hold must be one of the most unusual anywhere. 
One of many Parseghian mementos is this game ball. 
Dec. 5, 1969 


The Fifth Quarter 
On pages 36 and 37, Don Kennedy critiques the 1969 Irish freslimen and examines their worth to the 1970 varsity. Joe St. Onge, on page 38, profiles the man whose size 15's will be hard to fill next fall—Mike McCoy. Page 35 shows complete 1969 statistics and page 37 a preview of 1970. 
The Scholastic 


1969 Final Statistics 
TEAM STATISTICS 
ND 

Total Offense 4,489 Total Plays 868 Yards Per Play 5.2 Yards Per Game 448.9 
Net Yards Rushing 2,905 Attempts 663 Yards Per Rush 4.4 Yards Per Game 290.5 
Net Yords Passing 1,584 Attempts 205 Completions 113 Completion Percentage .. . .551 Had Intercepted 16 Touchdown Passes 13 Yards Per Attempt 7.7 Yards Per Completion 14.0 Yards Per Game 158.4 
/nierceptions Mode 21 Yards Returned 286 
Punf i?eturn Yards 252 Number of Returns 37 Average Return 6.8 
lotoi Return Yards 538 
Averoge Punf 34.6 Yards Punting 1,558 Number of Punts 45 Had Blocked 1 
Kickolf Return Yards 427 Number of Returns 26 Average Return 16.4 
Penalties Against 38 
Yords Penalized 481 
Fumbles {Lost) 23(13) 
Total First Downs 245 By Rushing 160 By Passing 74 Ey Penalty 11 
TOTAL OFFENSE 

Plays  Yards  
Joe Theismann, qb  308  1,909  
Denny  Allan, hb  149  612  
Ed Ziegler,  hb  94  483  
Bill Etter, qb  41  363  
Bill  Barz, fb  90  362  
Andy  Huff,  hb  69  264  
Mike Crotty,  hb  43  183  
Dec. 5, 1969  

Opp. 
2,187 664 3.3 
218 7 
851 374 2.3 85.1 
1,336 290 112 .368 21 
6 4.6 
11.9 133.6 
16 270 171 
28 6.1 441 

36.7 2,754 75 
1 
941 
57 
16.5 
44 420 
20(12) 
130 53 66 11 
Avg. 6.2 4.1 5.1 8.8 4.0 3.8 4.3 

SCORING SCORING BY QUARTERS 
TD's Kick Play FG TP Notre Dame' 87 115 77 55 — 334 
Hempel 44-41 7-5 56 Opponents 24 30 21 38 — 113 
Allan 9 54 
Gatewood 8 48 
• RETURNS 

Barz 7 42 [Number — Yards — Touchdowns) 
Theismann 6 1-1 33 /nfercepfion: Pun's Kickoffs 
Huff 6 36 Stepaniak 4-84-0 11-50-0 
Ziegler 4 1-1 26 Ellis 3- 98-1 
Etter 3 18 Gasser 3- 69-0 
Ellis 1 6 Schumacher .. . 3- 8-0 
Lewallen 1 6 Raterman 2- 4-0 1- 5-0 
Yoder 1 6 Olson 1- 15-0 
Notre Dome 46 44-41 2-1 7-5 334 Lewallen 1- 5-0 .7 - 75-1 1- 14-0 
Opponents 15 12-12 3-1 6-3 113 Thomann 1- 3-0 
Kadish 1- 0-0 
PUNTING Kelly 1- 0-0 
No. Yards Avg. Long McCoy 1-0-0 1- 25-0 Jim deArrieto 36 1,245 34.5 45 Allan 1-4-0 10-185-0 Jim Yoder 8 313 39.1 49 Crotty 2-6-0 4-111-0 Team 1 0 0.0 0 Gulyas 14- 87-0 1- 25-0 Notre Dame 45 1,558 34.6 49 Huff 1- 12-0 Opponents 75 2,754 36.7 59 Ziegler 3- 20-0 
Barz 2- 14-0 
Yoder 1- 28-0 
RUSHING 

Cieszkowski ... . 1- 13-0 
TC Yards Avg. TD Long 

Etter 1-5-0 Denny Allan 148 612 4.1 9 39 Oriard 1-0-0 Ed Ziegler 94 483 5.1 2 46 Notre Dome .. . 21-286-1 37-252-1 26-427-0 Joe Theismann 116 378 3.2 6 46 Opponents 16-270-1 28-171-0 57-941-0 
Bill Barz 90 362 4.0 5 22 Bill Etter 29 310 10.7 3 79 Andy Huff 69 265 3.8 5 21 PASSING Mike Crotty 43 183 4.3 0 13 No. Cmp. Int. Yards TD Pet. Jim Yoder 23 130 5.6 1 27 Theismann .. 192 108 16 1,531 13 .562 Bob Minnix 19 78 4.1 0 10 Etter 12 5 0 53 0 .417 Dick Zielony 22 68 3.1 0 10 Allan 1 0 0 0 0 .000 Ed Gulyas 3 20 6.7 0 14 Notre Dame 205 113 16 1,584 13 .551 Bill Gallagher 4 16 4.0 0 9 Opponents 290 112 21 1,336 6 .386 Tom Gatewood 1 0 0.0 0 0 
Tom Gores 2 0 0.0 0 0 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

Notre Dame 663 2,905 4.2 31 79 TACKLES MADE: Olson 142; McCoy 88; Kelly 
Opponents 374 851 2.3 8 38 71; Kadish 68; Raterman 67; Patulski. Schumacher 
54; Gasser 45; Stepaniak 37; Swendsen, Wright 
RECEIVING 32; Ellis, Neidert 31; Zikas 18; Thomann 15; 
PC Yards Avg. TD Long Patton, Zloch 12; Merlitti 9; Lewallen 7; Eaton 6; Tom Gatewood 47 743 15.8 8 55 Cloherty 5; Hempel, Reid 4; Eckman, Gasseling, Bill Barz 24 262 10.9 2 26 McHals, Nash 3; Bossu, Witchger 1. Denny Allan 11 199 18.1 0 56 TACKLES FOR LOSS: Olson, McCoy 10; Kadish, Dewey Poskon 13 176 13.5 0 37 Patulski 6; Schumacher 5; Swendsen, Neidert 4; Ed Ziegler 7 116 16.7 2 29 Zikas, Kelly, Raterman 2; Patton, Merlitti 1. Andy Huff 4 28 7.0 1 11 PASSES BROKEN UP: Ellis 13; Stepaniak 10; Jim Yoder 2 22 11.0 0 18 Gasser 8; McCoy 7; Patulski 3; Kelly, Swendsen, Bob Minnix 1 16 16.0 0 16 Neidert, Merlitti 2; Olson, Kadish, Raterman, Nick Furlong 2 14 7.0 0 8 Schumacher, Wright, Zloch, Reid 1. Mike Crotty 2 8 4.0 0 5 FUMBLES RECOVERED: Raterman 3; Patulski. Notre Dame 113 1,584 14.0 13 56 Gasser 2; Olson, Schumacher, Stepaniak, Neidert, Opponents 112 1,336 11.9 6 46 Lewallen, Allan 1. 
35 

The Man's Name Is Townsend 
l^TROLL down to your neighborhood bar over Christmas vacation (if they let you in) and you may overhear a conversation not unlike this one: 
"Sure they're going to the Cotton Bowl, but what about next year? With what's-their-Hames, you know, grad­uating, they're gonna be hurting at a few key spots." 
"Yeah, and I hear they may be developing a new passing attack, you know, with maybe a split end and a flanker or something." 
"But where are they gonna get the material for those positions? They better have a dynamite frosh squad." 
It may not have been a "dynamite" squad (in fact, the freshmen dropped two games while winning only one), but the potential was all there. As frosh coach Mike Stock put it, "We've got twenty or thirty kids ^vho were all MVP's at their respective high schools. Our problem is to make them jell and work as a unit so that they will be capable of team play on the varsit}'^ squad." 
Ask anybody on the Notre Dame campus who the best freshman pros­pect is. "Willie Townsend," they'll tell you, and for good reason. Willie has all the tools for becoming an ex­cellent wide receiver. Coach Stock cites the "size and sureness" of his hands and his ability to run the de­ceptive patterns. He dashes 40 yards in a mere 4.5 seconds and with his 6-3, 192-pound frame he'll pose as a formidable foe for the opposing secondaries. 
Asked if Willie's transition from de­fensing passes (he was a defensive halfback in high school at Hamilton, Ohio) to catching them^ was a difficult one. Coach Stock said, "He plays the position as though he were always an end." 
With the emergence of Townsend as a potentially capable end, the ques­tion arises: What offense suits two receivers of Townsend's and Gate­wood's abilities. Surely, neither should ride the bench for the '70-'71 season, but neither of them has the makings of an effective halfback, Put Gatewood in the slot as a flanker and flip-flop Townsend at the split-end position. Stock feels this is a defi­nite possibility, but to insure its suc­cess, he sees the need for the Irish to "establish a successful ground at­tack on the inside, otherwise oppo­nents wall merely have to shift men from the middle to bottle up Tom and Willie." 
.HE frosh squad provides an abundant amount of backs, all typi­cally bullish in the Notre Dame tradi­tion. Denny Gutowski, Larry Parker and Bob Miller, just to name a few, are sure to press Huff and Co. for their jobs next season. Quarterbacks Jim Bulger and Jim Brady "should give Joe Theismann a run for his money when practice opens next spring," according to Stock. 
Bulger, who at 6-5, 192 pounds could be one of the tallest QBs in No­tre Dame's history, reminds one of Roman Gabriel; he's quick, uses his size to advantage and has great strength in his throwing arm. Brady is also a good passer, but needs confi­dence in his capabilities. Don't be surprised, however, if No. 7 isn't on the field when ND opens with North­western next year. 
The Irish may still be in trouble when the opposition puts the ball in the air next year. The freshmen offer no real solution to a mediocre sec­ondary. Defensive backs Ken Schlezee and Terry Garner were "adequate" for the frosh squad, says Stock, but may be unable to contain the likes of Ashley Bell, Sam Dickerson and Bany Pearson. 
Theismann isn't the only vet who'll be worrying about his status next year. Mike Creany^ a lanky lad from Towson, Md., appears to have been bom wth .a "golden toe." In the freshman finale against Michigan, playing with a badly bruised foot, no less, Creany just missed a 47-yard at­tempt (it had the distance, but was wide to the right). Just to prove it was no fluke, he split the uprights \vith a 42-yarder into a 20-miIe per hour gale. Also of note was the fact that not one of his kickoffs was shorter than the Wolverines' 5 yardline. 
The Irish wall be weakest at tight end next year. With both Poskon and Lawson graduating, the search for a replacement has already begun, but so far no acceptable substitute has been 

so .. . ? The answer is quite simple. Tom Gatewood: One of two wide receivers in 1970? 
The Scholastic 
found. Freshman tight end Tom Knight just doesn't have the blocking capabilities that will be essential to the Irish running game next year. 

Come next April, when spring prac­tice and the annual Blue-Gold game roll around, all freshmen will get their shots at breaking into the varsity line­up. But predicting who'll make it is always a touchy subject. Who, for example, expected the likes of Mike Kadish to be out there alongside Mc­Coy and Olson. There's always the possibility for some unknown to sur­face by the time the Indiana snows have melted. As Coach Stock puts it, "We've got ten capable men on the coaching staff and they're trying every combination possible to come up with the best possible team for the '70-'7l campaign . . . we'll have a winner, you can be sure of that." 
1969 Frosh Statistics 
RESULTS RUSHING 7 Tennessee 10 No. Yds. 7 Michigan State 21 Parker „ 39 143 17 Michigan 7 Gutowski 32 130 
PASSING Opponents 0 7 17 14—38 Att. Comp. Yds. Bulger 37 12 172 Brady 11 3 15 
Notre Dame 7 7 14 3—31 
TEAM STATISTICS 
ND 0pp. 
RECEIVING 

Net yards rushing 354 454 
No. Yds.

Net yards passing 187 154 Townsend 4 86 
Passing attempts 48 21 Gutowski 4 43 
Passing completions 15 9 Total offense 541 608 KICKOFF RETURNS 
Yards penalized 70 161 Punting average 29.4 31.7 No. Yds. First downs 33 35 Parker „... 3 52 Fumbles 14 12 Webb 3 46 
1970 Varsity Schedule 
At NORTHWESTERN — Wild­cats return their most experienced squad in many years for 1970. Coach Alex Agase loses only six of 22 start­ers. Quarterback Maury Daigneau and halfback Mike Adamle, Big Ten's top rusher in '69, spearhead the of­fense. Lettermen flanker Barry Pear­son and fullback Al Robinson will re­place departing seniors. On defense, a pair of Irish nemeses. Jack Derning and Joel Hall, are back for one more try. 
PURDUE — After three superb years, quarterback Mike Phipps is gone. His replacement will be either sophomore Gary Danielson (6-2, 183 pounds) or junior Steve Murphy 
(6-4, 186 pounds). In '69, Danielson quarterbacked the Boiler freshmen to a 1-1 record. Murphy was a third-team varsity signal-caller; he did not win a monogram. Purdue graduates only one other player from its '69 offense—center Walt Whitehead. On defense, four of five linemen are gone, along with secondary stalwarts Tim Foley and Don Webster. 
At MICHIGAN STATE —Duffy Daugherty's principal off-season as­signment is to develop an offense. He began 1969 with a Texas-style veer, then switched to a pro-set at mid-season. Only center Tom Beard re­mains to anchor the offensive line. 
Dec. 5, 1969 

Dan Werner, a late-season choice at QB, and fleet halfback Eric Allen also return. 
ARMY—^The Cadets lose just seven of 22 starters. The passing game will be Army's strong point with quarter­back Bernie Wall, flanker Bill Roden and split end Joe Albano—all expe­rienced. 
MISSOURI at St. Louis—Tailback Joe Moore returns in 1970, presum­ably to battle for the Heisman Tro­phy. He is the only offensive back­field holdover from this year's 9-1 Orange Bowl outfit. Mizzu will be without 12 of its '69 starters, includ­ing some key personnel in the de­fensive secondary. 
NAVY at Philadelphia—The Mid­dies of 1969 were exceedingly young. On the 55-man traveling squad which came to Notre Dame, 12 were seniors . . . and only two of those 12 were starters. Fullback Dan Pike and of­fensive right guard Harry Landau have departed, but the remainder of Navy's starting lineup is intact. 
PITTSBURGH —Coach Carl De-Pasqua did the impossible in leading this year's Panthers to a 4-6 record. Ten first-stringers leave Pitt next spring, but most of the good ones are back—tackle Lloyd Weston and line­backer Ralph Cindrich on defense, tailback Denny Ferris, fullback Tony Esposito and wingback Steve Moyer on offense. 
GEORGIA TECH — Tech is an­other Irish foe which may be reaching maturity in 1970. Only two losses are significant for the young '69 Yellow-jackets. Halfbacks Gene Spiotta and Kenny Bounds depart, but Brent Cun­ningham and Lloyd Snow (brother of '67 All-America Lenny Snow) are capable substitutes. 
LOUISIANA STATE—Tigers \vill be without 17 players who started at one time or another in 1969. Tail­back Alan Shorey, an alternate starter, returns on offense, along with two linemen. Six defenders — including the entire secondary — have enough experience to give LSU fans the hope of another 9-1 season. 
At SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA— On offense, the Trojans are loaded again at skilled positions. Quarter­back Jimmy Jones, tailback Clarence Davis, fullback Charlie Evans and that gang of receivers—Sam Dicker­son, Terry DeKraii and Bob Chandler —command the attack. In the line, only tight end Gerry Mullins and tackle John Vella have another year. Defensively, SC loses six big "names" —tackle Al Cowlings, middle guard Willard Scott, end Jim Gunn, line­backer Bob Jensen, halfback Sandy Durko and safety Gerry Shaw. 
Concentration, Pursuit, Meanness 
B. 'IG MIKE says he always was con­fident tliat he would be an All-Amer­ica defensive tackle. But some frus­tration was involved in reaching his goal. Mike McCoy. 6-5, 278-pound Notre Dame lineman, tells the stoiy of a trying sophomore season. 
"Bobo (Irish linebacker and cap­tain Bob Olson) and I were the only sophomores on the defensive unit. He fit right in with the linebackei-s, but I didn't fit in wAth. the. linemen right away. Most of the season, I didn't really feel a part of the defensive team." McCoy says he knew that quite a lot was expected of him that sea­son, but he got the feeling people were looking for another Kevin Hardy right away. 
High school football was not easy, either. Mike wasn't able to play against kids his own age in grade school because he was over the weight limits. In junior high, "I was just a big fat kid," who was picked on by older boys. "I was always in fights," Mike recalls. 
Not until sophomore year at Catlie­dral Prep in Erie, Pa., did McCoy face players his own age. He says he "paid back" several opponents for previous beatings off the field. 
Mike admits that his early perform­ances for Notre Dame did not include enough "meanness." He says, "Coach Yonto still has to remind me to be mean, sometimes." Joe Yonto, de­fensive line coach of the Irish, is the main reason he has learned to put it all together, according to Mike. Yonto stresses pursuit on every play. Good pursuit means a lineman \vill be in­volved in more contact and contact 
brings out meanness. 
iGNsiSTENT greatness for a de­

one. "That means hard work, day after day, both on the practice field and in the game," says McCoy. "I would rather play a Northwestern, Alichigan State, Purdue or Southern California eveiy week than a Tulane, Pitt or Georgia Tech." Playing a good team makes his concentration on each play that much easier. McCoy has been at his best against Notre Dame's toughest opponents. "The worst feeling I ever had in a football game was at Pittsburgh this season. Only four or five plays were even near me." Mike likes to be where the action is. 
Pro football's player draft does not appeal to McCoy. "It's like we're slaves and they're bidding for us. But there's nothing Ave can do," he says. Mike played only defense as a sopho­more in high school, but went both ways in his last two seasons. He feels he can be either a good offensive or defensive player in the pros. "I can be blocked out" he says, "but nobody is going to 'physical' me." 
McCoy's football model is Dick Butkus, the All-Pro middle linebacker of the Chicago Bears. Mike has met Butkus. "There is a guy who is a great player because he constantly gives 100% on every play to go along with his great ability. On the field he is very aggressive, but off the field, you couldn't meet a nicer person— well educated, humble, soft-spoken and a family man." 
Mike McCoy has followed his model very well. He is truly another All-America Notre Dame can be proud of. 
fensive tackle demands concentration, Mike believes. Concentration pre­paring for and during tlie game enable 
a defender to make every play a big Mike McCoy has a word for Northwestern's Dave Shelbourne. 
The Scholastic 

o"aT>T)"6T>'oTroiroTroTnrrnryyginR JTinnnrriryyroinryrgT^ 
viM^ 

Whafs your pleasure? . . . 
SPORTCOATS 
A man's best friend! Gilbert's Campus Shop is now featuring an excellent selection of the coats you want . . . the colors, the styles and the fabrics. The newest are here, NOW. 
Single Breasted Edwardian 
from from 
$39.50 $50 
OUTERCOATS 
The most popular coat for today is an Edwardian styled, 6-button top coat; designed for Michiana winters with warm liner and shell. We have it now in new patterns and plaids. 
$60 USE THE EXCLUSIVE CAMPUS SHOP WAY TO BUY: Buy and wear your selections now . . . you pay: 
ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD 
in June in July '« August 
NEVER a service oi carrying charge 
o 

LJLSLflJLgJLO g g 0 0 O.ff O.P.O.q.QJU?J 
(5num>.q.g.ftj>JJ.g q.g o.o o o o o g 

^ILBERrS 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Cricketeer presents the shaped blazer for young men making their mark 
Young men who only look ahead choose the most advanced styles to express their own 
creative tastes. This is it. The 6-button shaped double-breasted blazer with advanced body tracing, wide lapels, deep center vent, slanted flapped pockets and ticket pocket. Tailored in luxurious wool Saxony cloth in new deep color blazer stripings. Move ahead in Cricketeer. You'll make out better. 
CRICKETEER ® 
S59.50 

THE OFF-CAMPUS STORE FOR MEN 
Rasmussens 
130 WEST WASHINGTON 




