Ootre Dame Scholastic 
D\ 3ce-q)VASi ssmpeR-vicTvev/s-•Vive •9VASI' CRAS iMORiTvievs­\ 
VOL. XL NOTRE DAME, INDIAi\A, DECEMBER 1 1906. No. 12. 
The' New Game. 
ROBEKT L. IIRACKEN, 'OS. 
HE severe criticism which greeted 
the 1906 rules has -been proved 
unjustly founded by the measure 
of success that the new rules 
have shown. The new game has 

all the good essentials of the old, and in addition has given the old game new phases and wider scope in which to develop not alone the foot work but the head work of the teams. Opinions seem to vary widely as to the merits of the old and new game, but it wall be found that the strongest advocates of the old game now are the men .who plaj-ed under the old rules and had finished their athletic career before the modern game came into existence. Per­s.onallv I favor the new game and believe that it has displaced for good the old gruelling, line-bucking contest. No team can make its ten j'-ards through the line if playing against a team which has license to be called an opponent. End runs, skin-tackle pla3^s, onside kicks, quarter-back kicks and place kicks, have taken the place of the. man-killing niass. plays. 
.There can.be no more of the grinding, wearing attacks that formerty won games, where the strong; backs were aimed at the opposing weak tackle or guard until they wore him down and crushed him into sub­missioUj practicallv "killing him off" for the time being. And then it was that he was seriously injured for his strength was gone, his brain had tired with his physical powers, and he w^as -but a combination of bone and muscle which was w^orthless, his spirit or "gameness" attempting to call him a ma.n. 
The much-talked of forward pass is but an experiment; in fact the new game is but an experiment, but a successful one. The forward pass has proven to be but a mere attempt in nearly every game of the season. It has worked beautifully^ at times, and has resulted in miserable failure at other times, which proves more than ever that headwork and not alone beef and muscle makes football players. 
The forward pass can be worked success­fully, but the play must be perfected to the highest state and will depend upon the headwork of the men involved in the pla3'. Under the former rules if a signal was missed on a line plunge some one of the backs could take the ball and plough 
. into the line and probably make his two or three yards, but this can not be done now (the two times three still makes six yards and first down, but it does not 
-make ten), and especially in the long pass it must work perfectU' or not at all. And the idea in every game is undoubtedly to reach the highest state of perfection. 
The new rules have put a premium on the headj'- man, for it is the man with the 
-football head that is the valuable asset to a team now; the open field runner,the dodger, the alert and watchful man, w^ho can see and take opportunities, has driven the bat-, tering ram line-plunger to the background. 
Another evidence of the new rules is that-they give the light man an equal chance' with the big man. The new game allows him to pit his w^eight aided by his brain' 
-against the man who is a football player -simply because he can not be hurt and can stand punishment. <-' The game naturally must be more open ._and- consequently more interesting to the spectators. Good plays were pulled off in 
the old game which were equalty as hardj as the new ones, and demanded the scienctl and state of perfection that is required] now; but how many of the side-liners saw' the real science in them? Only the few.' that had mastered the fine points of the game and knew the inside workings of a football machine. 
It was but natural then and reasonablc­that to the uninformed spectator the game appeared nothing more than a mass of heads and legs tangled into one huge pile, apparently devoid of anj^ science or skill, holding brute strength above all else. The game is pla3'^ed for the interest of the people at large-the same as an}'^ other game; and why. not let them see it and enjoj'' the really good points in it? And this the new rules do; they have opened up the game so that a man wlio never witnessed a contest before can easily understand it and can see what is going on in the field. The plaj'crs themselves have found the game quite as exhilirating and the public at large has found it more entertaining than before, hence there can be but one answer to the question as to whether the new rules ha^-e improved the game. 
Regarding the injuries incurred, they are bound to last. They are in everj' game and are found no more in football than in the other so-called "gentlemanly contests." As for the injuries resulting under the old rules the game itself never w^as to blame for the numerous serious accident. The men w^ho played it can thank themselves for that, for they made the game what it •vv.'^as. 
The new rules give the "bad" rhain smaller chance to get in his "dirty" work, for the openness of the game is a bar to him. The intentional injuries will not be found to exist under the new rules, for the wide-open manner in which the plays are run off allow^ officials, spectators and players to see every move a man makes, and.the "inside player" has no chance now to operate his methods. 
The' game is cleaner under the new rules, is better for the players and better for the spectators, and makes it possible for all to enjoy it. The.-old game is gone, and the new has proven to be not a failure; but in another year when the season will open Avith the sa,me confidence as the past one closed, the new game.will be a grand success. 
SCHOLASTJC. 
Her First Game. 
THOMAS E. BURKE, '07 
Persons. 
LAWRENCE HocKi (A Notre Dame student.). ROSE HOCKI (Sister of Lawrence.) WALTER NEWMAN (Member of visiting team and very 
dear friend of Rose Hocki.) CROWD OF N. D. ROOTERS. 
SCENE I. 

Cartier Field at 2:30 P. M. {Visiting team enters.) 
ROSE. Sure enough, there's Walter and he has his football apparel on. No, I can't catch his eye—^he doesn't seem to see my handkerchief. 
LAWRENCE. Don't wave that handker-' chief any more; they are all laughing behind you. 
ROSE. Let them laugh. I think Walter will do better if he knows I'm here. 
(Enter Notre Dame team.) 
CROWD. U. N. D. Rah! Rah! . ' U. N. D. Rah! Rah! Hoo rah! hoo rah! 
U. N. D. Rah! Rah! 

ROSE. What's that horrid thing they're shouting up there? 
LAW. That's the college yell. 

ROSE. Is that the college yell ? It has no music in it whatever. When I went to the- convent we had the cutest class yells. 
. LAW. Well, cute j'^ells are all right for the convent, but not for boys. They want something that will stir up enthusiasm. 
ROSE. Who is tha:t man standing behind 

all the  others ?  
LAW.  That's  Deiner,  the  Notre Dame  
fiill-back.  
ROSE.  What a horrid  face  he  has.  

LAW. That's not his face, that's a nose guard. , . ROSE. A nose guard! Is it dangerous? Will he have to be operated on for it? 
LAW. NO! no! A hose guard is not a cancer of the nose" or anything like that, it's a covering to prevent the nose from being, broken in a scrimmage. . -. ' 
ROSE And is his face under that? 
LAW. Yes, yes. ; ­

ROSE. Why doesn't he take it "off -t5 let the people know that it .isn't his face. I'd 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
like to see what kind of a face he has, for 
he's as bald as he can be, and his head is 
like an o^gg. 
LAW. Nonsense! That's a headsrear he 

has on to cover his head and keep it from 
ROSE. And is his head under that? 

LA\Y. Yes, don't ask so many questions; just watch and AI-OU'II see them all put on head and nose guards. 
ROSE. Oh, I declare! Walter has one of 

those nose apparati on; I believe the game 
is going to start. Look how^ he caught that 
ball. I thought it was going over his head. 
CROWD.—iST. D. Hurrah! 
D. U. Hurrah! The Gold Hurrah! The Blue Hurrah! Hooper, Hooper, Hooper,, Hoo! Notre Dame. Notre Dame N. D. U. 
ACT. II. (Same scene.) 
{Notre Dame kicks off.) 

ROSE. Oh! Walter's got the ball. Look at him run! look at him run, oh! oh! Who is that horrid man that caught him bv the legs? 
LAW. That's Beacom. 

ROSE. He ought to be arrested—such a big fellow to catch him up like that and fall on him. ­
LAW. Y'OU make me tired. Everj^one is laughing at 3''0u, Don't 3'-ou know thafs part of the game. 
ROSE. Oh! yes, y.es, Walter's-got-the ball asrain! Look! look! That's not fair for that big man to knock him down before he got started. He's a brute! Who is he? 
LAW. Bud Sheehan, the star centre. 
ROSE. What's Walter going to.do now? See! he's-going back. 
LAW. Punt, punt, can't you see! 
ROSE. Oh, dear! that bigs overgrown fellow stood right in front of the ball ' when he was kicking—he has no right to do that. Who is he? 
LAW. Beacom, Beacom, keep-your e^'cs open. {Notre Dame gets ball.). CROAA'D.; • Touchdown! Notre Dame; touch­down! --. y -•. . \ 'il 
ROSE. Who is that going—Oh! no—They haven't got him. That horrid Beecham is holding Walter or I bet he'd get ::him. Oh! oh!.he's.gone back of the goal., 
GROWD. Rah! rah! rah! Braicken, Bracken! 
ROSE. Who is that they are cheering? Is it Beecham ? -•• ... LAW. NO, it's not Beecham or Lydia Pinkham either,, it's Bracken. ROSE. And T\^hat is that man going to do now ? . -. LAW. Kick goal. Why don't yon wait 
till v^ou see before v-ou ask- questions. ROSE. What's that man's name? LAW. Beacom, Beacom, Beacom—^for the 
twenty-third time. 
ROSE.. That doesn't look like the Beecham 3^ou showed me before. I • .. ­LAW. Please keep quiet, will you? His name isn't Beecham, it's Beacom; , CROWD. {AS ball goes OTergoal) Hurrah I LAW. 6 to 0 in favor of Notre Dame. ROSE. Mjl That's awful,- but I think Walter's team is the best, don't you? Who 
is that man with the nose protector?-­LAAV. I told you once it w^as Deiner: ' ROSE. All the others ha\'e taken them-
off, why doesn't he? ; .'', LAW. He doesn't -want to have his 
nose broken. • . ROSE. And do the others?; " • LAW. . You silh'- thing, keep quiet. • 
ACT ILL (Same scene.) 
Notre Dame kicks off. • 

ROSE. Oh, I declare! Y'es, Walter has it aga.in! Look! oh! oh! that horrid Beech-ams has squashed him. 
LAAA^ Yes, I guess he's out.. -. 
ROSE. Out where?. Why do they push.^ his legs up and down like a pump handle? . Oh! look! he's bleeding. 
LAAA'. They are going to take him out 
of the game. ROSE. (cT^ano-). Will he live? W'ill he die?­LAAA'. I can't stand this any longer; come 
out with.me; you've made a fool of both of us. 
In Late Summer. 

(Horace, .Odes I. :!S,). , .. . OH! boA", 1 hate, tlie Persian festal ..way, .^ . The crowns of flowers.joined with linden bands; No longer seek the hardj' rose, I say," 
- Nor pluck it with'sh3''too officious hands, 
•-•'.. • , -• ••'--'",^ i'.^~~ • - ^. 

A simple myrtle crown is all I crave When sitting drinking 'heath 'the vine's cool shade; . The myrtle, dbes not "shame" your'master, slave,­Nor will it thee when coming to my-aid. H. L. 
COACH THOMAS BARRY. 
Coming into the West a stranger and into a body of green material. Coach Thomas Barry faced a serious problem. But abilit\'^ to adapt oneself is the sign of success. Barrj"- started at once to work and in a few weeks a crowd of awkward, head­less new men were developed into a fast, steadv^ team. Aluch has been said concern­ing "Barry of Notre Dame," but only one \vho daih^ watched the Varsity grow and develop under him can do any justice to the good work done by this man. He believed in leading his men, never in push­ing them, and while he led he also showed a reserve j)Ower capable to enforce. That he' never had to call on this reserve power during the j^eai: is the best sign of his abilit3^ Always fair and giving every man a chance he more .than satisfied ever3rone. 
Barry^ will not be with us another jear; he has gone West to practise law, being graduated from Harvard June '06. Previous to his course he took a college course at Brown on whose football team he played for four years. In 1902 he was chosen all-American half-back. His stay here has left us an irnpressibn of his sterling character, and we wish him the greatest. success in his new field.' 
SCHOLA:Sl IV. 
Beacom. 
VOU may sing the songs of heroes Who have trod the football field, Of your Eckersoll and Garrells Who were never known to 3-ieId; But my song is of a tackle Who would plaA' A'our heroes flat, And there's nothing cute about him. He is just plain "Pat." 
Though the backfield hit the line hard And advance unto the" goal. It is generalty the worker On the line that makes the hole. Thus was Beacom ever doing. And the holes were large at that, For there's nothing small about him. Though he's just plain Pat. 
T. C. B. 
^•» 
CAPTAIN R L . BRACKEN. 
This was "Captain Bob's" last 3^ear of football. He closed a brilliant record in the Beloit game, and now will take his place in athletic history at Notre Dame. Few men who have ever captained the Varsity have won the love and esteem that Bracken has. With his team-mates he never had anything but harmony; for him they always had respect. This mutual confidence was one of the things which made us as successful as we were. "Bob" graduates from the Law Department next year. 
:\OTRli DAME 
The Scrubs. 
TH E crowd cheers loud for the regulars Who have made the Varsity team, For the men who have swept the football field And stood in the limelight's gleam, But little it knows of the silent men, Of the lads who take tl:e rubs, Who work their best to advance the team— Hurrah! for the Varsity scrubs! 
The regular man feels well repaid When he hears the voices true Of a thousand lustA' college lads Who cheer for the Gold and Blue ; But the3' show a love that is deep at heart. The men who fight like cubs, When there's no return. And it's ours to shout "Hurrah! for the Varsity scrubs." 
T. E. B. 
TH E BASEBALL CAPTAIN.. 

Rtifus Waldorf for two years on the Varsity football and baseball teams will lead the State Champions again this year. "Rufe" has been the box artist for us since his debut into the baseball world and we are expecting bigger things than ever this year. He is the right man for Captain, and let us now guarantee him the good spirit in baseball that was accorded Capt. Bracken in football. 
SCHOLASTIC. i8i 
MANAGER DRAPER. 

When "big Bill" Draper, famous trackman and half-back, took up the managership last September everyone knew that he had gotten into a position where it took a w^hole man to get along. With a blank schedule, a muddled state of athletic busi­ness, and general disorder, staring him in the face, he set about to straighten matters out and put us where we belonged in athletic circles. As much credit is due to Manager Draper for the successful year we have had as there is to a.nj man. It is encouraging to see that after several years of unsuccessful managers we have at last gotten the right man. That he will prove as valuable a man for the baseball men as he has been for the gridiron men we have no doubt. 
Inter^Hall Track Meet-

Manager Draper says that an Inter-Hall meet will be held soon. It's for the. purpose of bringing out men for the Varsity track team. Already man3^ are out, but there are others around who should be /there. Sorin, Corby, Brownson and St. Joe should all be represented. .The last Inter-Hall meet held w^as a very successful one. Sorin won, and the big men are trying to get out enough men to do it this year. 
Varsity J9C6. 
Another, season has gone and found us up a peg or two. No team could ever show more clearlv the effect of ".altogether" spirit tliaii the Varsit^'- of 1906. AVith less stellar material than the 1905 team, the Yarsit3' n ride a wonderful rCcord nnd buried the "hard-luck" accountf of the 1905 \varriors. It was not due to one man, or to the three, but to all"the.men. No team ever pulled together .like ours did, and no team ever had- better spirit among its men. To all this and Barrv's good v^^ork can we attribute out' success. 
ROBERT L . BRACKEN (Capt.aiid'O.^B..).. 
Captain Bracken ended his career in football at Notre Dame in a l-laze.of glor3'. On ever}"^ field he w^as a hero, and his long runs have added, much to the A^ar­sit\''s number of j^ards gained .this 3'ear. Bracken came in just when and w^^here a man was badly needed, and that Ayas at quarter-back. When Dwan \vas forced to quit Barry w^as up against it, He' tried Bracken at quarter, and the Captaiii immediately made good. Bob is essentiallj'­a half-back and w^ould have icertainly starred wonderfull3'- in the new game. He is fast and has a goou head. His abilitj^ as a broken field runner is attested'by his brilliant showing at Purdue. At Indiana he was picked bv all critics;.as a :back on the All-Indiana team. We AVIII miss him next j-^ear as he was a good, hard wpilcer, and gave the Varsitx*^ the best that w.as in him. "Peggy" is 21 3'^ears old, weighs'155 lbs. and is 6 feet in height. -' t 
.PATRICK BEACOM (Tackle).' 
;-^; -• 
The great ex-Captain surprised* us one da3'^ last September. He just dropped in quite unheralded and boosted, th^ line stock considerably. Through the _3'ear: he was the same old Pat, only better tjian ever. Barry shifted him to tacUe. this 3:ear, and though handicapped in a new iDosition he did brilliant work. He was a whole fortress of strengiili -to i^the line, and his .ability to net five and six yards when given the ball made him more than ever indispensal<le. For four years he has been the man on the line and the mainsta3'. Notre, Dame's line will miss Beacom and the hole will be hard to fill. To followers of football no word of praise or introduction is- necessar3^ Ever3'one knows " big Pat,'.' the giant tackle of the Gold and Blue. We are sorry to lose him; he was a great pla3'er, and a lo3-al student. Beacom is 24 A-ears old, Aveighs 230 pounds and.-^'stands 6 feet 2. 
CLARENCE ..SHEEHAX (Centre). 
"Bud" also .pla3'ed his last game this 3''ear. "Like Beacom and; Bracken his time has come, and he must leave the old shoes in the old gym for some one else -to fill It will be. hard to. fill thein". too. In fact we are quite sceptical about it, for Sheehan has no peer in the West as • centre, and is without doubt one of the greatest football pla3'crs Notre. Dame'ever turned but. He is big- and verv fast, strong and knows the game.."He was injured onh'- once during the whole season. "Jerrv"also gave, us a sur­prise, and one da3'- he strolled in from the West and donned the canvas. The brilliant work he did . eclipsed cdmpletel3^ all his other records. This vear he was the general in'the line, and kejDt "the new ones steadied up. He is 23 3'^ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches' in height. 
DoiMiNic. CALLICRATE (Half-Back). 
Dominic Callicrate, the find of- 1905, was .the star-.-of 1906. This-year he was pulled back to half and .pla3-ed his own great game back there. Absoluteh^ devoid of fear, almost to foolhardiness, strong, alert and sure he. is a very valuable part of the team.. He is a phenomenal ball pla3^er. He is hard to catch.-and hardei" still to tackle when c,arr3dng the ball; he is a fierce tackier and a reckless interference breaker. He is never injured and always in the game. He was also picked as an all-Indiana back. Next 3'ear ' Ke will have no peer in the West ^s a half-back. Dominic is 21 vears old, weighs 165 pounds, and is 5 feet lOVo inches in height. He was.- elected Captain for the 1907 Varsity. ' . 
JqHN;:DEiNER (Full-Back). , The big'Tiill-black was a5 tower behind the .line; his 190>. pounds ;vvere alwa3'^s telling on opponents,' and his" fierce lihie lunges made one regret the loss of the old game. 



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
mmmm\ 

He is big and strong and a powerful good endurance and promises to be a valu­defensive player. On offensive he is a star able man. This was his first A'^ear. Next when running interference. His showing in season we expect him to do "some" things the Indiana game places him as oi e of on the line. He was never hurt and was the best men in the State. He is a good always in the game. As guard he did admir­man behind the line, steading the half-backs ably. In Eggeman there is the making and alwaj's using his head. No team can of a star line-man. His defensive w^ork be complete and successful without a man was strong and he was just as good on like Deiner. -His plunges are a necessity. offense. He played every game of the season, Deiner went through the line with terrific and very little time was taken out for him. force and was alwaj'^s in the playing, He is 21 years old, weighs 195 pounds and pulling a man through, clearing holes, or a , is 6 feet in height. ' telling factor on the push. Deiner is 21 
OSCAR HUT2ELI. (End). 
years old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet Another man who materialized this j-^ear in height. 
was Hutzell. The man from Fort Wayne 
FRANK MUNSON (Guard). 

made quite a "rep" for himself this jtar.Munson was another man to make the-
He was fast down the field and was one team this A'car. He held down the position 
of the men who came in for much praise beside Sheehan and made good. "Fan ' is 
from everyone who saw the . Indiana a big man and strong. He was a hard game, and who were forced to recognize worker, though hindered somewhat by a • the worth of our ends. Time after time 

severe cold which clung to him through the Indiana failed in trying to circle the ends. 
whole season. He is fast arid with his All others like Indiana failed too, because weight made a good man. He was the our ends were always there.' Another one of punter of the team and showed up well. 
Hutzell's new stunts was always keeping His performance in the Michigan " Aggie "'^• '^is eye on the ball and being the one game was excellent, and his punts against generally to ge:t a fumble. His work a driving soaked wind average thirty-five scored for "us in several instances. 'He is yards. In the Indiana game he did great strong and fast, a good tackier and awork also. Munson is 5 feet 10% inches, man who always keeps his eyes open. He weighs 185 pounds and is 20 years old. 

will play with us next 3'ear. Hutzell is He wnll be with us again next year. 
5 feet 9 in height, weighs 160 pounds and is 20,years old. 

RuFus WALDORF (Half-Back). HARRY MILLER (Half-Back). 
Waldorf too must go this 3'^ear.' The great "Bumper" has played the time allotted to Miller reported to Barry with the rest all athletes. His work is memorable, and of the green men; But h^ had the right the swift half-back will long be cherished timber in him, and soon "red top" was by Notre Dame enthusiasts. ; Last season tearing around the end as half-back. He he played full-back, and though light for is a very good worker and consistent; one that position he proved a valuable man. of the most faithful men on the squad and The new game was more to "Rufe's" a hard trainer. He is almost too anxious to liking. He is heady and. a good defensive "get in" and so needs holding back instead player, while he is a good punter.- Waldorf of the customary "dig in." Miller will be a has been elected Captain of the Varsity great acquisition to next year's team. He is baseball team. He is 21 years old, 6 feet strong and possesses phenomenal develop­in height and weighs 165 pounds. ment for a man so young. He is always, 
willing to learn any new point and is FRED EGGEMAN (Guard). 
another one filled with the " ready-for-more " 

Eggeman was one of the men from the spirit. He has two years more, and if he big squad of new men to make good. He continues to improve he will have rip is a brother of the famous John Eggeman superior in the state. Miller is 17 years who starred on the Varsity as centre. old, weighs 175 pounds and is 5 feet 10 "Eggie" is a big man and strong; he has inches in height. 
NOiRE VAMt SCHOLASTIC. 
. • SAMUEL DOLAN (Tackle.) 
Dolan was another new man who made 

good .under Barr3^ It vi as his first year and he showed up ver3'- well. Next 3-ear "Rosie" ought to IDC one of the best men in the West. He is ver\- strong and pln3-s a great game both offensive and defensive.­Besides he can, like Beacom, be called on for .five or six yards when the3'- are badh'' needed. It is a hard proposition to pull this man down once he gets the ball. He was one of the most consistent, workers on the squad; always in good condition and read3^ for more he made a hit with ever3^one. This AA'as Dolan's first 3''ear and he will be with us again next year; He is 22 3'ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 9 inches 
in height. 
RAYMOND J. SCANLON. 
Scanlon is a little man, weighing but 

160 pounds and is but 5 ft. 8 in height. 
He started late occasioned hj his class 
work, but proved to be one of the best 
ends on the squad. Scanlon pla3'ed end 
on offense and half-back in the doul^le line 
on defense. He was the equal of Callicrate 
in picking out his man and downing him. 
A fast man going down under punts, and 
a hard worker all the time. While not a 
brilliant plajer he was the kind that can 
be relied upon and can alwa3'S be counted 
on to do his best. A harder or more faithful 
worker never wore a Notre Dame uniform 
than the same little Scanlon. He will return 
and the man who beats him out of an 
end position next 5^ear will deserve the 
place for he looks to be a fixture now on 
the right wing as long as he remains in 
school. 
EDWARD F . O'FLYNN 

O'Ftynn is another one of the long list of first 3''ear men, weighing 170 pounds and standing 5 feet 10 in height. Earh'- in the season he suffered an injur3'' to his shoulder which kept him out of the game for several weeks and spoiled the good showing he would have made. The onh-^ time that he really had a chance to show his abilit3'- was in the first game of the season, and then he proved beyond doubt that he had the proper stuff in him and will be developed into a good full-back. O'Flynn mav return next season arid if he does he will make a strong bid for a positioii in the back field. 
BENJAMIN BERA'E. 

Berve' weighs 185 -pounds, is 19 3-ears old, and was another one ofithe.new men. Coach Barrv' took him oot of tackle,"his regular position, and iriade an end out.of him. He. was a go.od defensive half-back, possessing the weight, and strength neces­sar3' for a good interference-breaker.. He followed the ball well, and although new at the position put up a remarkably good game. He is another t3-pe of the steady pla\ er, alwa3'-s in the ^ame, and alwpy^s working for the interest of the team. Berve will return next year and vrill. make part of the good bunch that will remain from, this 3'ear's squad. 
ARTHUR A. HE.NNING. -­

"Artie'" showed a great improvement over last 3''ear and developed into a good man. That Henning is needed around' is ptitting it mildl3^ That he will be extremel3r useful, and that he will utilize his 180 pounds:.ior us next 3''ear, makes us feel easier about "that hole" which Beacom will leave. Henning from the start got in and trained. He was alwa3'S out on the campus for ever3'^ practice and scrimmage.; He seldom if ever got hurt and alvva3'S put up. a good strong game. It is,of Henning's kind that we must look to next 3-ear for another first-class Varsit3-. He is 21 years, old, .weighs 180 pounds and is 5 feet 8 inches in height. 
HARRY. G. HAGUE. 

Harrv' Hague came out this 3-ear and gave the Varsitrv the 1 est in him. Pitted against Beacom, he often made- the big fellow take more than usual precautions. Hague was another of those indispensable men \vho are alwa3^s around when wanted, and who are alwa3-s willing. Harry is well muscled and uses ISO pounds of solid matter to good advantage. He will be with us again next;3'ear. He bids fair to make a very good line-man. He is 20 years old, weighs 180 pounds and stands 5 feet' and 9 inches. 
. . ALBERT T. MERTES. . "Bud" Shcehan's opponent landed on H:he campus this year w^ith" the others 
-\A^ho knew nothing of anv kind of foot­ball much less the new game. But brahis win out and it did not take Alertcs long to get a start; from then on he made things interesting enough for any man on the squad who opposed him. A'lertes is undoubtedh"- looked upon as the man to fill Sheehan's shoes. This ye^ir's experience coupled with his weight and nerve should make him a veiy valuable man next 3'^ear. It .is the kind of men like Mertes that coaches want.. He is over willing and is a plugger from start to finish. He is 20 years old, 5 feet 11 inches tall and weighs 1S5 pounds. 
THOMAS F . DONOVAN. The brother of the famous "Smush" played with us this j'-ear. He evinced some of the old Donovan spirit and was always in. the thick fight. He is a verv^ big n?an and next year should prove a valuable bit ,of material. "Smusheret," though a green man learned quickh^ and put up some good games during the year. His Beloit game was worthy of notice, and was the subject of much comment. He is 21 years old, 6 feet .1 tall and weighs 185 • pounds. NICHOLAS M . DOYLE. 

A good man -vvho did fine work dur­ing the year was "Nick" Doj'-le. Nick is a big man and verA' strong. He is a willing w^orker and uses his head. Besides being a good defensive line-man. he is a hard .tackier. This w^as his first 3'^ear out and vsre expect great things from this man next season. He was also a member of the green bunch Barry had to pick from. He will;be back next 3'^ear and help fill the place vacated by Beacom. Do3de is a hard student as well as a good athlete. He is 21 years old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6' feet in height. 
HARRY A. BURDICK. 

Burdick weighs 185 pounds and is 6 feet tall. This was liis first year on the team and he was probably the "find" of the season among the second team men. As a defensive haH-back he was the equal of any man on the Varsity. And in the onty game he .was in he proved that he was a good end. The only forward pass of the ^ season which :worked, as it is intended to work, Burdick 
SCHOLASTIC: 
took from Bracken and made a twenty-five yard gain on it. He had but little experience if any before this year, and next season he will undoubted^ be seen in the regular line-up if he continues to improve. 

EDWIN BONNAN. Bonnan was the smallest" man on the squad. He is but '^^5 feet 6 in height' and weighs 142 pounds. Bonnan is the man to Avhoiii the rooters are looking to step into Bracken's shoes at quarter. He is a fast man, a good general, knows the game and has had several 3-ear's experience. He did not get a chance to show his. worth this season as Bracken was late in getting into form at quarter-back and needed all the X3ractice he could get. Bonnan is a good man on defense, handles punts well and is a good dodger and open field runner. He will return and according to dope should fill in at quarter-back with very little trouble. 
JA:MES KEEFE. 

Keefe is 5 ^eet 10 inches in height and weighs 155 pounds. He played quarter and half-back on the second team and was a valuable man for the squad, as he could fill in at end, quarter or half In the only game he w'as in he went in at quarter and got away wnth two pretty runs. His sprinting abilit3'' aids him greatly as he is the fastest quarter-miler in the school, and once away it was all off, as he proved to the regulars in the practice games. Keefe maA' return. 
JOHN F . DUFFEY. Duffe3'^ was another star man on the second team. He is-a big strong fellow weighing ISO and standing 5 feet, 11 in height. - Di.ffe3'^ pla3'ed half-back on the second team and was responsible for many of the long gains that the "scrubs" made on the Varsity. Duffe3'' has three more 3'ears to pla3'^, arid if he decides to remain at Notre Dame he will develop into a strong man, either at end or half-back, and have chance to show his ability in a regular game. He is another of the 
men who w^ill make thea little more experience andvaluable asset next season.   Varsity will  with  be a  
, \;  .  LEROY  KEACH;  

Eeach is a small light man, weigiiing but; 150 pounds and. standing but 5. feet 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI/" 
m 

8: Keach was one of the most earnest workers on the squad. He filled in -QXVJ position including end and the backfield: At times Goach Barr3" sent him in at guard and it" was all the same. Never a word from him, but he put his head down and worked. .The good example that Keacli set might be followed h\ manj' of the side line warmers. Keach,was.one of the Jastes.t men on the >quad. He .has another \^ear and 
will  rieturn. MA X  .. JlTRASH EK.  
"German3^" Jurashek isweighs 160 pounds.. He  6 feet pla3'ed  tall half  and  and  

end on the second, team and proved to be. a good.. gro.und gainer and -a fair defensive man. -"German3''" did not have the chance to shpw his' best as he was injured ,several times. .He will return next.3''ear, and profiting by this 3^ear's experience will be a good man. 
The- Varsity Banquet. 

Monda3' evening the Yarsit3' was tendered a banquet b3^ the Universit3' at the Oliver Hotel. Twent3'-five men. besides the Man­ager, .Coach and Facult3'- representative gathered around the festive board and talked the season over again. At the head of the table sat. Coach Barry with Captain Bracken at his right and Manager Draper at> his left; Mr. Draper was toa^tmaster and abh' filled the position. 
In tendering the Varsity's token of love and esteem. to Barr3', Captain Bracken made a brilliant speech. The farewell.-Avord of the men who' ha.ve pla3^ed their last 3'ear with Notre Dame struck,-s\'-mpathetic chords in evervone. . , 
.The worth of the "Scrub" \vas emphasized b3^, everj'- Yarsit3'- man's speech. Keefe^s response to.the toastmaster's..introduction was greatly appreciated. 0'Fl3'nn spoke in a very creditable manner, and was onh­one of the manv who. referred, to the good Spirit among the men, the encouragement by the Coach, Captain and Manager. 
"It was 3'-ou, riot I, men,, who-made.this, year, a success," was a very modest .close coming from the lips of; Notre Dame's most successful Coach. So erided the 1906 football year—a jear long to be remembered, and, cherished by, every Notre Dame man. 
J906 Inter-Hail Football-,..:,-. 

The Inter-Hall football season closed at Notre Dame with the St. Joe-Corby game. The championship is still undecided! ;'It is disptited between' Corby arid St. Joe. Browrison met Corby, and after a brilliant fight went down in defeat- Then St. Joe tried her luck against the victors" and succeeded in defeating them, but the game was contested because St. Joe played men who were on the Varsit3' squad. A few-weeks later St. Joe tried again, but Corby held them, and the score was , 0-0.' This-leaves the affair imdecided. ,. 
-Inter-Hall football has alwavs created quite a stir here, and much interest?-vv-ais. manifested this 3'ear. It'is to be'regretted that Corb3' and St. Joe did notnieet4aricl determine the championship. For ^ Sofiri; athletics were dead; Capt.Brogan gotVa bunch of men out for a while, but the new^. Sorin spirit which is directh-.contrary--to the old one caused the thing to fall-through;-Sorin should have had a good tearn, arid the loss of the annual • Sorin-Corby-'gaine does not help college spirit very ^riiuchP*"^ ^ Perhaps to Corb3' should, the greatest credit in football progress be. given... She had a verv good schedule and took.a'rnum­ber of trips. In her line-up there, are.several fiien who should prove valuable- iriaterial for the Varsity squad. He3d, Pa3-ne arid Kellv were noticeable this vear. ; In ..St.^Joe, Banw and Papin carried the-;: honors:. Bfovvnson showed up well with. Lepriartz and Trumbull. 0'Lear3'''s toe is good, but', he had poor luck in games. . ", J- -., 
Carroll Hall went in for a bit and. defeated the Latin-American team, but further than this Carroll did nothing. Carroll seems to have followed the exariiple of the older Sorinites in taking a decided slu.mp in athletics, and this,without .Sorin's excuse, di£f•nit\^ We reriiember the time when Car-­roll cut quite a figure here, and it is,:tpo bad to see these 3'-ourigsters "without spirit. 
This in brief is Inter-Hall football this 3''ear. ..Relative to other years it was a failure, but viewed alone it ."was fair-Perhaps much can be accounted for" by the appearance of so man3'' crack Hall-jnen on, the Varsit3'- squad. , .1; ; 
i88 /v07^J^£ DAME 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Noirt Dame, Ind. 
Termst $t.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 

Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Notre Dame, Indiana, December I, J906. 
Board of Editors. 
EDWARD F. O'FLyNN, '07. 
THOMAS E. BCKKE, '07 LOUIS M. KELLEY, '07 
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, '07 \YM. E. CUNNINGHAM, '07 
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, '0 7 FRANCIS T. MAHEK, 'OS 
ROBERT L. BRACKEN,'OS WILLIAM LENNARTZ, 'OS 
PATRICK M. JI^VLLOY,'07 YARNUM A. PAKRISH, '0 9 


LEO J. COONT2, '07 PAUL R. MARTIN, "'09. 
-^Another year of Notre Dame football 

has passed into history. The tension of 
two weeks ago has been relicTed, and Y\^e 
walk around the campus wait-

Anothcr ing for nothing, except perhajDS 
• Word. Christmas time. Much has been said about our "N. D." man. On the campus he has been landed, and off it: he. has been appreciated, but all of us adinit w^e can never say too much. The splendid spirit shown this ^-ear can not go fornanght, and-we feel it throbbing .through us, inspiring us to do greater things. Who will say it will not remain with us, and, increasing with time, swell down the y^ears till the name of Notre Dame will be heralded with renewed viffor 
the w^orld over. 
To the men who leave us .w^e extend a grateful hand. We thank them for the lesson they have taught, for the gift they bestowed in giving the best that was in them; and so, Bracken, Beacom, Sheehan, Waldorf and' Deiner, all Kotre Dame extends to you her earnest gratitude. 
To.Manager Draper belongs much of the credit for the harmony that existed this year. Handicapped by a muddled state of affairs which presented - itself to him in 
SCHOLASTIC. 

September he ploughed on and brought us through the j-^ear a success. An excellent management is the on!}'- wa3'' to term it, and Bill Draper, athlete and student, was the man behind. Of course we want another Draper A^ear. 
To Goach Thomas Bariy we are greatlA' indebted, and it is our deep regret that he will not be with us again, but wherever he goes we" will watch him with interest, 
and  now  extend  him  our  heartiest  wish  
for  success.  
-t**-^  

—Six 3^ears ago there came \o the Univer­sit3'' preparatory department a small \iOy from South Bend. On the side-lines in the great Yarsitj'- days he watched the The great Varsities. Three years later New he donned a football suit and Captain. fought for Sorin Hall in the 
great struggle against Corb3^ Corb3'' won that game. It was an epoch in Corb3''s life; it was another in two or three of the participants. That game brought out "l3ig" Joe Deiner who fought so gloriousl3'­for Notre Dame this 3'ear,but it also brought out Dominic CalHcrate. When Deiner, the irresistible force, hit something solid and immovable that day, he looked up and saw Sorin's plucky end; so came Callicrate into football histor3^ at Notre Dame. Last year he made the Varsit3^ at end; his tackling was a ieature. This 3-ear Barry pulled him back to half, but it onh"^ showed up his phenomenal abilit3'- as a . ground gainer. Every da3'^ he played behind the line he justified Barrxj^'s choice of him as a half-back. 
Monday night an admiring eleven unani­mousl3^ elected him their captain. This in brief is the history of Dominic Callicrate, the modest, unassuming, plugging captain of Notre Dame. Not only is he a football hero but he is one of the hardest and most consistent stiidents in the Universit3^ Though in this respect he is only following out tradition at Notre Dame—all our cap­tains have been lights in their classes. We who watched his football work all 5'ear think he has no peer in the West, and we all expect him;to show it next season. So here's;to "Cally," the reckless, daring half­back arid Captain of Notre. Dame in .1907. Success to hini.:' 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
•LAW DEPARTMENT. 
Summary of Decided Cases. Statements of facts for trial in the Moot-Court have been published with almost uninterrupted regularitj'- since September 22,, but it was found impracticable to begin the actiial work of trj-ing cases at that early date. During the succeeding two or three weeks, however, the court officers for the current academic year were appointed and preparations made for a busy season. It is believed that compara­tivelv soon all the cases thus far sriven out can be disposed of and the regular order resumed of pubHshing the statements of facts after the trial, and giving with it the judgment or decision of the court. As that has, however, thus far been found impracticable, it has been thought advis­able to present here a summarj'- of cases already decided bA"- the court. It is unneces­sarj' to present more than a brief outline of the facts, as thej- have heretofore been set forth in the statements published. We refer first to the case of The People 
V. Barrett, the statement of which appeared in the SCHOLASTIC of September 29. The question primarily to be decided in the case is whether it should be treated as a criminal or a civil action. On the authority of Rex v. Wheatty, 2 Burr. 1125, it was held not to be of the criminal class. In that case beer was the subject of purchase, and barrels sold as containing IS gallons were found on subsequent measurement to contain scarcely 
16. According to Lord Alansfield, in stating the opinion of the court, " The^ offence that is indictable must be of a nature to affect the public. So if a man use false weights and measures, and sell b3'' them to all or manj'- of his customers, or use them in the general course of his dealing, and so if a man defraud another tinder false tokens. These are deceptions that common care and prudence can not guard against. So if there be a conspiracA^ to cheat, for ordinary- care 
' and caution is no guard against this. Such cases are much worse than mere private injuries. They are public offences. But here is a mere private imposition or deception. No false weights or measures:for, common use are employed, no token is given, no con­spiracy is shown. There is only an imposi­tion on the person with whom the defendant was dealing in delivering a less quantity than had been bargained for, and this the buyer carelessly accepted. It is simply a non-performance of contract, and for it the seller may be held answerable in a civil action." To be a crime at common law an act must be injurious to the public. An infringement of private rights may be a tort or breach of contract, and as such it gives rise to a civil action for damages. 
The next case disposed of is that of Hunth' V. the Equitable Life Insurance CompauA^. The facts in the case were published in these columns on the 6th of October. The question involved in this case is whether an insurance contract is to be considered one of indemnity or not. It was held to be such in Godsall v. Boldero, 9 East, 72. In the case just mentioned Boldero had a ckiim of £2500 against the noted British statesman William Pitt, who was notoriously indifferent about paying his debts. Boldero had an insurable interest in Pitt's life on that- account, and he^ took out a'policy to the extent of his claim in the Pelican Insurance Company of London. When Pitt died an act pro-viding for the payment of his debts. was passed bj- Parliament, and Boldero, with other-creditors, received payment in full from the public treasury. Then he called at the office of the Insurance Company and .politdy requested the £2500 due by the terms of his policy. The officers of the company refused to pay the claim, and somewhat rudeh'- intimated that he was a swindler.. The next step of the disappointed a;nd. indignant Boldero was to sue the company. The case was tried in the Court of King's Bench, and Lord Ellenborough, Chief Justice, • took the position that a contract of life insurance was simph"-a contract of indem-. 
. nitj'-, and that, as the plaintiff- had been' paid through the generosity of the govern­ment, he had received the amount he claimed f and for the recovery of-which he had. taken" out the policj- of insurance. There was, when he received paj-ment from the governinent, 
: nothing further to claim aud nothing 
190 NOTRjo, DAME 

further to insure, according to the doctrine announced, which thus treated the contract of insurance as one of indemnity. In the case of Mrs. Huntly r. The Equitable Life Insur­ance Company, however, the court took a different view of the matter, holding that a contract of insurance is not one of indemnit\', and such is now the law in Great Britain as w^ell as in this countiy. Dalbj'^ v. India, etc.. Life Ass. Co., 15. C. B. 365. Mrs. Huntly was therefore given judgment against the compaiiy for the amount of her claim. This case is based upon Connecticut, etc., Ins. Co. 
r. Schaefer, 94, U. S. 437. 
The case that was next decided is that of Hagaman v. Wavman, the facts in which were published Oct. 27. It is based upon that of Mills v. Wyman, 3 Pick. 207, which w^as decided bj'^ the SuiDreme Court of Massachusetts in 1S25. It repudiates the idea of a moral consideration as basis for a contract. In this case the defendant's son w^as of full age and had left the paternal roof with a view to securing employment and earning his own living. Some time afterward he fell sick among strangers. Destitute and in -distress, his condition was deplorable and excited their commiseration." Actuated by. feelings of kindness' arid TDenevoIence, the plaintiff succored arid relieved him. Subsequenth'^ the father wrote to; his son's benefactor, expressing thanks arid promising reimburse­ment. But he declined later to fulfill his promise, and the jDlaintiff brought suit upon it. The. court held that he could not recover, basing its decision upon the ground that there was no valid -consideration for the promise. 
The son had attained to his majority, had left home to provide for himself and w^as no longer a member of the father's family in the sense of Avorking for or depending upon it. The father was no longer under legal duty to support or provide for him. The promise to pay the plaintiff for his services and disbursements, during the young.man's sickness was given after the services had been rendered and the disbursements made. It Was given in a sense of gratitude. It had simply a moral basis. It. was right an J in accordance with conscience that it should be. fulfilled. But this, did not create a legal obligation 
SCHOLASTIC. 

binding on the defendant. It would be otherwise had the promise preceded the services and expenses incurred, and they were given with reference to it. The responsibility^ of the father for necessaries is restricted to minors and those whom he is legally bound to support. That responsi­bility^ ceases in the case of adults and children emancipated. On the authority of the case mentioned—Mills T^. W3'man, 3. Pick. 207—the case at bar is likewise decided in favor of the defendant. It should be remarked that Lord Mansfield strongty favored the Roman law, w^hich recognizes the moral consideration, and sought to borrow from it w^henever practic­able, but the common law- did not yield on. this point; and the moral consideration must find its reward in the approval of conscience, the gratitude of the beneficiary and the appreciation of the communit3^ 
The Oratorical Contest. 

Next Wednesday'- the-^finals for the Breen Medal in oratory will: be held in Washing­ton Hall. The four men w^ho will compete are those who won out in the preliminary contest held on last Tuesday. Wesley J.. Donahue, w^hb will speak first, needs no "writing" at Notre Dame. For three years he has been active in debating here. He w^as a member of the team which defeated De Pauw two years ago, and last year he was one of the trio w^hich vanquished Iowa. 
Edward F. O'Flyrin, who follows second on the program, has achieved eminence in oratory. Last year he w'on the Breen Medal firom a large-field. In the State contest he won second place by a margin of nine points' and came within one point of winning' first. Contrary to precedent around here O'Flynn has been advised by the Oratorical Association to enter. . -" .­
W. P. Galligan is a dark horse, his show­ing in the preliminaries was excellent and deserved to win into the finals. 
F. T. Collier, the stellar light in St.Joev literary circles, is known to ev.eryone., He js_ a senior economic man and has been in the limelight for four years. -. 
NOTRR DAME 
Announcement. 

The editor wishes to announce that because of the extra work of getting out a Christmas number, there w^ill be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next week. 
Notes from the Colleges. 

And to think they are still playing base­ball out at St. Maiy's College, Oakland, California. 
* 
* «

We find a "Mike" Dougherty on the Minnesota debating team; but then this might be more of a news item if we didn't find "Mike Somebody" among the names of the spell-binders. 
* 
* * 

The Purdue Agricultural School will issue a magazine. 
* * * 

The study schedules of the -football men at Cornell will be arranged next year with a view to giving the candidates ample time for practice. This is the proper -spirit. 
* * 

January 4 is the date of the Hamilton oratorical contest which will be held in Chicago. A number of the big universities will be represented. Among them Chicago, Indiana and Northwestern. 
The "Frats" run the American college girl, while every coed is on an equal: footing in the Canadian schools. This in substance is what the Queen's University Journal has to say of the college ladies." We haven't any­thing to say except that we don't know the "frat," and we are hardly on speaking terms with "our" college girls. 
* 
• * 

The term professional is construed literally at Harvard, for not pnly the men who are professional athletes, but anyone who is following a professional course in the school is barred from participating in college athletics. 
* • * 

A college athlete can no longer compete 
SCHOLASTIC. 
in contest under the colors of his college 
and the A. A. A. He must choose between 
his Alma Mater and his club. 
* * 

Right now when the curtain is falling on the football career of many a gallant gridiron hero, perhaps- no place in the country will there be such a demonstration as there will be at Chicago over Walter Eckersall. The whole university planning is the affair. What men these moleskin heroes be! 
* * 

Basket-ball must in a week or so take the place of the " debrutalized" football. 
* * * 

The Wisconsin faculty has put a two-hour limit on all. college society gather^ ings. It can not start till S o'clock or last longer than 10:00 o'clock. The indignation is where it should be—^in the women circles. 
Personals. 

—John E. McCoy writes that he is now a member of the Thos. Hoye Heating Co. —^Maurus Urick is with the Tacoma and Portland Railroad. 
—B. R. Enriquez is located at Los Gitos, Mexico, With the Campanio International Railway Construction Co., : 
—Mr. L. C. Fritch, uncle of Louis and Emil Fritch of St. Edward's Hall, has been-appointed Assistant to.the President of the Illinois Central Railroad, effective November 14, 1900, with ofiice at Chicago, 111. Mr. Fritch was for several years secretary of the American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of the Navy Association; he is also a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
—Mr. Charles Roesch and Mr. Nathan Silver are advancing rapidly with the Fort Wayne Electric Wurks, Fort Wayne, Ind., The)'- have been promoted several times. Mr. Roesch wishes to impress on the minds; of the students the necessity of knowing how to use the common slide rule. Be says: "Everyone here uses it; even in the sales: department each man has one; he has no time to make long divisions and figure 
percentages in the ordinarj- waA^" 
—Dr. M. J. Brown has been selected to teach in Columbia UniyersitA'-, Portland, Ore. He was graduated in medicine in the Jefier­son Medical College, Philadelphia, in 1896, and was instructor in biologx'' and ariatom\' for three 3'ears in the same institution. Having previoush'- studied.law in Philadel­phia he came to Notre Dame last 3^ear when he received his Bachelor's Degree in law and also the gold medal for legal thesis. We w^ish him success, in his new field. 
Local Items. 
—Sorin's billiard table hasn't come y^et. 
-—A number from' Sorin wei.t down to a 
dancfe recently—eiiough said. 
—rFound—Some fountain pens. Apph^ to 
Bro. Alphonsus, Birownson Hall. 
—^Beacom was in the line-up against 
Canton in the - Alassillon-Canton game. 
—^The finals in the contest for the Breeii 
Medal will be held Wednesday evening in 
Washington Hall. 
—^The question - for the coming debate 
between Notre Dame and Iowa University 
has b^een submitted b3'- the lowans. It is: 
"Resolved, That the cities of the "United 
States should seek the solution of their street 
railroad,problems in private ownership." 
—LOST—Two rings. Finders, leaA^e with 
Brother Alphonsus; 
A gold seal ring between Corbv Hall and 
Main Building, return to.Father McManus; 
:A pin with .a lion's head and five" stones'; 
lea\:e .same with Bro. Just, Carroll Hall. 
^-The annual meeting of. the 1907 Golf 

team met the other night. The foUowng officers were elected: John Wooden, Presi­dent; J. Tack - Keefe, Vice-President; R. Kosparr, E. T. T. S. Secretary; J. Coniskii Manager; J. Jardene, Assistant Manager; ,E. J? Alais V Hypo '^ Kenny-Captain. The colors are damask and pea green.- Caps; -will;be put soon bearing the usual modest 
ehiblem, of; the Golfers: 
—Circulars have been issued asking a number of questions concerning your record in athletics. It is-"ther earnest; desire of the: Athletic Management 4hat ever-yone receiv-. 
ing such a circular will answer all questions, and show by their. approval of the plan 
their  willingness  to"  help  in  upbuilding  
athletics.  
—Because  of'the ^number  of  contestants  

for the Breen Medal in Oratory it was' necessaiy to' hold a preliminary'- contest Tuesdaj'in Washington Hall. The successful four were: first, E. F. O'Fhmn; second, W.J. Donohue; third, W; P. Galligan; fourth, F.T.,Collier. The final contest will be held December 5. 
—The Inter-Hall debates .will take place the second week in December. Next week a schedule of the debates will be j)ut on the bulletin boards of the different Halls. It is to be hoped that there will be a large attendance of these contests for the encouragement of the participants. They have prepared long and thorough^, and will certainK'- make a creditable showing. 
—The Brownson Literar3'- and Debating Societj"- held a veiy interesting meeting last ^ undaj'- evening. Speeches or recitations were given \i\ Messsrs. Hundley, Cabrera, O'Learx'-, BrickcA^, Xajulis, Howard, Berry, Fagula and F. McAleenan. Their eiforts were all creditable and were appreciated by the societ3\ Air. Varnum. Parrish expressed some excellent ideas on the " Value of Public Speaking" and was listened to with much interest. He is a former Brownsonite w^ho bids fair to become a thoughtful and pleas­ing speaker. After a few words from Bro. Alphonsus and the three new members who had just been taken in, the meeting adjourned. Great interest" is being shown in the members who are to represent Brownson Hall in the Inter-Hall debates, and thej"- can count on the hearty support of- the Hall at large. 
—^The preliminaries- of the Corbj-- Hall debating society were held Mondaj^ evening, November. 12, the. contestants . acquitting themselves 111 a very, creditable manner. The question for the debate was "Resolved, that public, utilities should be owmed and operated \yy the municipalit3^" The question was, vigbrouslj'- debated by the candidates, the judges, who. were Fathers Ouinlah and Heiser and Professor Harrington, finally awarding the honors of. first, second and third places to Messrs. Hutchins, McNally and Schmidt, in the order named; F. J. Roan was selected as altei-nate. The men who compose Corby's team are now actively engaged in .forming their argumentative forces for the debate with Holy Cross, which.­is scheduled for the evening of Dec. 7; and. are eagerly, awaiting the coming of tlie. contest. Although" this is Corby's first year' in the debating field, it is the expettatioh'^!' of the Corby students that iti^^cvill [prove 
a. most successful one.= . • . ^, ' 






