
. I 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\, 
\ 
\ 
\i 
\1 
~ 

The Kickoff 
'83 Overview: Learn How to Fly 
By John Heisler 

50 The Bowl 
Liberty Bowl: A Most Valuable Win 
By John Heisler 

54 The Trivia 
Notes on Notre Dame: Irish Items: Football '83 
By John Heisler 

57 The-NewYear 
'84 Preview: The Horses Are There 
By John Heisler 

160 The Stats 
The Awards 
~itation jfor ~Utnu 
Colk9t Sports Information Dirtetors of America SW-'-It. 
~irb Jn m,t Jlation-lilibision g 
A....._.l.•s.-IP...I.IHior-~r-..l~oi.A....Ic-­.lc.s~o••r-,...CA.n.»J.o.,.I,_MJ 

Irish Eye has been honored as one of the top publications of its kind .in each of its three previous years of production. The 1983 edition was judged "Third in the Na!ion" in the Special Publica­tions division by the College Sports Information Directors of America-after finishing fourth in 1981 and first in 1982. 


Vol. 4, No. 1, March 1, 1984 
6 The Season. Purdue: Just What the Doctor Ordered ................................ By Karen Croake Michigan State: So Much for Cloud Nine ............................ By Karen Croake Miami: Have a Cocktail for 'Canes .......................................... By John Heisler Colorado: Back to Business ...................................................... By John Heisler South Carolina: Raining on the 'Cocks' Parade ............ By John Lewandowski Army: Marching on the Meadowlands .................................. By Chuck Freeby USC: Something Borrowed, Something Green .............. By John Lewandowski Navy: A Napoleonic Effort.. .................................................. By Karen Croake Pittsburgh: A Party for the Panthers .................................... By Louie Somogyi Penn State: All But the Cigar ................................................ By Chuck Freeby Air Force: So Close-Yet So Far..........................................By John Heisler 
The Credits Irish Eye is a copyrighted production of Sports Publications, Notre Dame, Ind. Editor: John E. Heisler. Editorial Staff: Karen Croake, Chuck Freeby, John Lewandowski, Louie Somogyi. Cover Design: Mossberg and Company. Cover Artwork: Lee Henricks, Tim MacDonald, Wainwright-Raber Adver­tising Art. Printing: Mossberg and Company, Ave Maria Press. @ Sports Publications, University of Notre Dame, 1984. All rights reserved.-John Heisler, Editor 
Associated Press-10, 30, 36 (bottom), 38, 41, 54; Mike Bennett-42, 43, 44, 45y 50, 51, 52; Mike Collins-27; Wayne Doebling-6; Manny Gaetan-23, 24; Neal Kemp-26, 28, 29; LeRoy Lambright, Goshen News-4; Caryn Levy-14, 15, 16, 17; Br. C~arles McBride-3, 5, 39, 40; Kevin Moloney,;_ 18, 19, 20; Gary Mills-36 (top), 56; Steven Nav­ratil-2, 7 (top), 9, 11 (top, bottom), 12, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 47, 48, 57, 59; Tom Priddy, Columbia State-46, 49; Tom Roberts, Goshf!ll News_ -46, 49; South Bend Tribune -1 (bottom), 8, 11 (middle), 13. 

'83 Overview 


Learn How to Fly 

You got to learn how to fall Before you learn to fly And mama, mama it ain't no lie Before you learn to fly Learn how to fall 
He holds the forefinger just a half­inch away from the thumb. A deter­mined look flashes across the face that betrays emotion so easily. 
"We're that close." . 
It's more of a promise than an excuse in the Gerry Faust lexicon. It fits right in with other Faustian catchphrases such as, "We're getting better," and, "It's coming." 
At a cursory glance, the Faust view­point might seem unrealistic. After all, since when has close ever counted when it comes to Notre Dame football? But the naked figures tend to agree with Notre Dame's 24th head coach. 
In three seasons, his 15 defeats have come by an average of 8.2 points per game. Throw out a couple of emotion­drenched, one-sided losses to Miami in '81 and '83 and that figure drops to 6.2 per game. Ten of the 15 losses have come by a touchdown or less. That's close. The Irish lost to the eventual na­tional champion in both '82 and '83. 
A field goal here or a defensive stand there and Notre Dame could have been welcomed to Tempe for the Fiesta Bowl either of the last two seasons. It was that close. Just ask the Fiesta Bowl executives. They've been aching for · Notre Dame ever since purposefully moving their game date away from Christmas Day and into the New Year's Day listings. The Cotton· and Sugar and Orange Bowl folks have been to Notre Dame Stadium in November each of the last two Novembers. Only the losses have kept them from returning. 
Faust doesn't like to talk about it. He doesn't want anyone to think he's mak­ing excuses. It hurt him as much as anyone to stand adjacent to the Orange Bowl turf, where Miami had shut out the Irish on national television, and sug­gest to the assembled media that the Irish still were in good shape. In good shape, at 1-2? After The Sporting News predicted the Irish would win the na­tional championship? You have to un­derstand Gerry Faust to know why it makes sense. 
* * * 

Gerry Faust never learned how to fall. 
Eighteen years of big-time high school football went by the board, and so few of those humbling experiences occurred that Faust never had to learn how to take his lumps. He figures his three years at Notre Dame already have more than made up for that deficiency, if you want to call it that. 
Eighteen years of 10-1, 12-0, only one so bad as a 7-3 thrown in. It be­came commonplace, almost the way Notre Dame fans expect their seasons to be. You play the game to win, and that's what is supposed to happen at Notre Dame. 
Former Marquette basketball coach AI McGuire hit the nail on the head last December as he spoke to an Irish pep rally before Digger Phelps' squad met UCLA. 
"You're playing at home," he told the crowd. "I don't want to hear about your sprained ankle or your runny nose. You're playing at home. What do you do? You win. 
"Forget about the record and last week's game and all that other stuff. You're playing at home. What do you do? You win." 
Faust knows he hasn't done that enough times in Notre Dame Stadium. There, the record is 9-7 in three sea­sons. Ara Parseghian went 51-6 and never lost more than one home game in a year. Dan Devine went 25-7. The fig­ures don't mesh. So how come this guy Faust still manages to keep smiling? How come he hasn't lost his sense of humor and started snapping at people? What's the deal with this guy? 
Part of the answer is what Gerry Faust is all about. 
"If and when Gerry wins, it'll be the greatest situation we've ever seen here," says Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan. "He's a great example of what college athletics should be all about. Look at the attention he has gotten by going a little better than .500 the last few years. Can you imagine what it will be like if we go 10-1? 
"I think some of our assistant foot­ball coaches realized that when they went to-the NCAA coaches convention in Dallas. They talked to enough other coaches and other people down there, and I think they started to understand why it's important to college football for Notre Dame to win. 
"We're supposed to stand for values and standards and morals. And if we can't get it done, then what kind of hope is left? I know that may sound a little chauvinistic, but that's the kind of thing that built up over all those decades of winning seasons. 

"The Leon Harts came through here and never lost a football game. And it was done the right way. Gerry can be so much a part of all that with every­thing he's got going for him -if he just wins." 
Sometime during the last three sea­sons, a little birdie got to Faust and gave him a message. Right here is where you start. paying, he was told. It must have happened that way. All those wins, but did he pay his dues? The patience has remained intact because, somehow, Faust figures this is how the whole thing was set up. Let's have a couple of tough years, so we all appre­ciate the good ones. 
Let's fall a little ways before we start flying again. So Faust just throws up his hands and doesn't worry about it. The 5-6 and 6-4-1 and 7-5 must have been in the cards all along. But let's not get carried away with that angle. After all, enough is enough. 
"We're that close." 
It's time to fly. 
* * * 
You got to drift in the breeze Before you set your sails It's an occupation where the wind prevails Before you set your sails Drift in the breeze 

The breeze just may have started to fill out the mainsail the afternoon of November 20. It was an awfully strange day around the Notre Dame football camp. 
The Irish had lost three straight No­vember games for the second straight season. Only the day before, a very un­Notre Dame-like finish had seen Air Force block an 11th-hour field-goal at­tempt and beat Notre Dame by one in front of the ABC Sports cameras. The Orange and Sugar and Cotton and Fiesta Bowl people had long since left for greener pastures, and now even the Liberty Bowl folks had been sent home to consider other options. 

The newspapers were saying unkind things about Gerry Faust and his pro­gram. It almost made Faust want to wish football could just disappear for a while. But, amidst all that gloom, a ray of hope appeared. The media had a field day and the fans had their say and the players had their vote. And when the last opinion had been voiced, the Irish were headed for Memphis and the Liberty Bowl. 
Somewhere inside Gerry Faust, a voice cheered. For sure, it was a gamble for Faust-but one that would become ever so much more important as De­cember wore on. 
"It.would have been so easy to just let it all end," says Faust now. "And I can understand the seniors, especially. They had seen better days playing in the Sugar Bowl as freshmen. And a lot of people took advantage of the situa-. tion to take their shots at the Univer­sity. 
"I really didn't have much say about it. If the players wanted to go, I wanted to go. 
"But I can't tell you what it meant to have. this opportunity -after every­thing we had been through in three years, to have this opportunity to change things and end things on an up note. I guess only a coach knows ex­actly what it's like, but no one wants to go from December until next August thinking about those losses. 
"That's why this meant so much. It 
was a chance to change all that. 
"Maybe I was unrealistic coming in 
here in the beginning and thinking we 
could win the whole thing and go to 
bowl games right away. Maybe this is 
the way it had to happen. 
"But if it did have to 'be this way, 
then we had to take advantage of an 
opportunity like this. We weren't kid­
ding anyone. The game wasn't for the 
national championship. We knew that, 
Boston College knew that and the Lib­
erty Bowl people were very upfront 
about it. But, in some ways, it meant 
more than a national championship 
after all we had experienced. 
"It was a step forward, and if we're going to take this thing one step at a time, then this meant everything in the world. 
"All you had to do was look at the 
faces of those players in the locker 
room after the game in Memphis. 
"Maybe it wasn't that big a deal for 
the average Notre Dame fan who has been to Dallas or New Orleans or Miami. But for me, this was the first time. I'd never been to a bowl before and neither had the freshmen, sopho­mores or juniors on the team. So for all of us, this was a big deal. 

"You have to like Allen Pinkett be­cause he always seems to have a great perspective, but I really think he had the right idea about the whole thing. 
"I had to smile when he stood up at the press conference the day before the Liberty Bowl and started talking about how much this game would mean to us a year from now when we would be in the Sugar Bowl playing for the national championship. He kept stressing that he wasn't making any predictions, but that's the way he thinks. He's optimistic like me and he sees good things ahead for us. And he figures if we're going to accomplish big things in the future, then we need to go through an experi­ence like this. 
"He was exactly right." You put in your flight time before they give you your captain's wings. 
* * * 
Oh and it's the same old story Ever since the world began Everybody got the runs for glory Nobody stop and scrutinize the plan Nobody stop and scrutinize the plan 

So, the gamble paid off. The 6-5 be­came 7-5 and that turned out to be a rather large difference for so many so close to the Irish program. 
For both Faust and Corrigan, the trip to Memphis had its strange signifi­cances. Both men, hired within recent months, had been invited to join the Irish party in the '81 Sugar Bowl in New Orleans. Both declined, since they weren't officially on board ship until the first week of January. But both prob­ably figured they had more than enough bowl trips iri. their futures. It hasn't yet worked out that way, but Decem­ber 29 could be the start. 
As Faust is so fond of saying, maybe that 's the light at the end of the tunnel. Maybe the Liberty Bowl will be what gets the Irish over the hump. 
"We're that close," as the saying goes. 
Corrigan looks at it all another way: 

"The one thing people in coaching get is personality paralysis. When things don't go well, they think they have to change,-and when they do, it almost never works out. 
"But Gerry's unbelievable. He hasn't changed. He's a little more realistic now, but his optimism isn't any different from the .first day he came here. 
"The one thing he has realized is that when it comes to your assistant coaches, you hire good people and let 'em coach. Gerry was a guy who wore a hundred hats in high school. When he came here, he had a suggestion for everyone. He has had to focus down on what he really needs to be doing. When Saturday comes, he doesn't have time to worry about every little thing and to call every last play. 
"Gerry also is learning that you don't have to spend all your time putting an arm around the players. At this level, they just want you to show 'em how to win." 
He's that close to doing just that. 
Lyrics of Learn How to Fall © 1973 by Paul Simon 

Purdue 


Just What the Doctor Ordered 
By KAREN CROAKE On Friday afternoon before Notre Dame's 1983 season debut against Pur­due, senior quarterback Blair Kiel stood at the top of the runway leading to the playing field at Ross-Ade Stadium. The Boilermakers once had courted the services of the native Hoosier. But Kiel had chosen Notre Dame. His last trip to the sprawling West Lafayette campus-in the fall of 1981-had not been a pleasant visit. He did not start at quarterback and failed to throw one pass. And he watched his team lose a 14-7 lead as Purdue concocted a miracle finish in the last 19 seconds to emerge a 15-14 winner. Kiel did not want to lose again. As he contemplated the upcoming contest, Kiel scrutinized the empty stands. His eyes focused on the horse­shoe end zone where gold-painted 
bleachers  proclaimed  in  big,  black  
letters  - P -U -R -D -U -E.  
"Purr-Do!"  shouted  Kiel,  whose  

voice reverberated across the Prescrip­tion Athletic Turf. Then, in his quiet, confident manner, he whispered, "We'll get 'em." 
Nearly 24 hours later, Kiel was standing in the exact same spot. He was clutching a well-deserved game ball and happily accepting the con­gratulatory hugs, handshakes and pats­on-the-back from family, friends and fans. 
Kiel's prediction had been right on target as he directed the Irish to a sur­prisingly easy 52-6 massacre of Notre Dame's longtime nemesis. 
"The defense gave us great field position, and we were able to take advantage of the opportunities that we got," explained a jubilant Kiel, who completed nine of 16 passes for 166 yards and a pair of touchdowns. "I don't take any credit because I feel the offensive line dominated the game, our backs ran like crazy and our receivers caught the ball. We each had a job to do, and we did it. We're a team." 
Indeed, the Irish offense started to sizzle long before the 69,782 fans, try­ing to fan away the oppressive 95­degree heat with their game programs, had settled into their seats. Notre Dame put 17 points on the scoreboard before the first quarter ended and the Boilermakers could figure out just what hit them. 


"We got lucky in the beginning, and the ball bounced our way," said Irish coach Gerry Faust, who has won all three of his season openers at Notre Dame. "We played aggressive football and didn't let up. We capitalized on Purdue's mistakes. Getting an early le?d certainly helped because it's hard to suck it up when you're down in this heat. It's the hottest weather I've played in during 26 years of coaching." 
Behind the running antics of tail­backs Allen Pinkett and Greg Bell and Kiel's pinpoint passing, the Irish struck for two quick touchdowns. On their first possession, the Irish needed just seven plays to find the end zone as Kiel tossed a nine-yard scoring pass to Bell. Mike Johnston added the extra point. During the 57-yard drive, Pinkett took credit for 46 of those yards on three carries, the longest a 35-yard scamper over left tackle. 
Bell, who tallied four touchdowns against Purdue and finished with a mis­leading 45 yards rushing, made his second strut across the goal line nearly seven minutes later. After Kiel's throws to Joe Howard (eight yards) and Mike Favorite (18 yards) brought the Irish to the 23-yard line, Bell used four straight carries of nine, five, seven and two yards to finish off the drive. Johnston's second PAT gave the Irish a 14-0 advantage. 
Notre Dame's defense, which limited 

Purdue to a paltry 33 yards and one 
first down (by penalty) in the first 15 
minutes, gave its offensive counterpart 
another scoring opportunity late in the 
period. Defensive end Mike Golic 
pounced on Boilermaker quarterback 
Scott Campbell's fumbled lateral try 
on the Purdue 38-yard line. Pinkett 
squeezed through the Boilermaker line 
for gains of 16, two and five yards to 
move Notre Dame to the 14-yard line. 
As · the first quarter ended, Johnston 
booted a 31-yard field goal to give 
Notre Dame a 17-0 margin. 
"I think our defense was extremely 

intense in the first quarter," said Jim 
Johnson, Notre Dame's defensive co­
ordinator. "We kept Purdue down 
there, and we got our offense good 
field position. The early lead fired us 
up. But then we suffered a letdown." 
Purdue, which had earned its 

Spoilermaker moniker largely through 
its timely upsets of highly-ranked 
Notre Dame teams, revved its engines 
on its . first possession of the second 
period.~ 
Campbell, a senior starting his fourth game against the Irish and the proud owner of several opponent pass­ing standards in the Notre Dame record books, picked apart the second­ary with a trio of key passes for 44 yards, including a 29-yard toss to flanker Jeff Price. Tailback Lloyd Haw-



Notre Dame free safety Chris Brown ends this third-period Purdue possession with this end zone interception, one of four by the Irish. Watching Brown arc teammates Mike Kovaleski (49), John Mosley (40) and Tony Furjanic (58) as a potential Boiler 
receiver reaches in vain. 
thorne added 25 yards as the Boilers moved to the Irish 15. But on fourth and one, Campbell held on for the quarterback sneak and was stopped cold. · 
"I thought we were still in the game at 17-0 when we missed on fourth and inches," said a dejected Campbell. "That's when things really went bad." 
Purdue coach Leon Burtnett couldn't explain the horror show he was watch­ing. 
"We were just atrocious," said the second-year coach. "We really thought the team was ready to play. Our whole coaching staff just can't believe it. This is total shock." 
Notre Dame continued its scoring barrage by capitalizing on two Camp­bell interceptions. 
Sophomore tackle Greg Dingens snared the first of Campbell's errant throws on the Notre Dame 48-yard line for the first theft of his career. 
"Mike Golic tipped it up, and I was in the right place at the right time," Dingens explained. "I should have run with it. I thought about it for a second, but I just wanted to catch it. I didn't want to take the chance of losing it." 
Pinkett and fullback Chris Smith 
took turns with the football on the next 
series, but once again Bell grabbed the 
glory on the 52-yard drive with a two­
yard sweep into the end zone. 
"I think Greg and I are like the Pony Express," said Pinkett, who finished as the game's leading rusher with 115 yards on 15 carries. "We deliver." 
Offensive coordinator Ron Hudson couldn't argue with his star tailback. 
"When you talk about Pinkett and Bell, you're talking about freshness," said Hudson. "When they're healthy, they're as good as any backs around. They're not the O.J. Simpson-type of guys who will get off the ground 3 8 times a game. We feel we have a fresh back coming at the opponent all the time. If we alternate Pinkett and Bell, the defense isn't fresh, and that means a couple of extra blocks and broken tackles. That results in longer runs." 
Irish linebacker Tony Furjanic inter­cepted another Campbell toss on the Notre Dame 47-yard line with just under one minute left in the first half. Battling the clock as much as the Pur­due defense, Kiel connected with Howard for 24 yards, and Bell cut through right tackle for 12 yards. After an incompletion, Kiel came right back and fired a 17-yard touchdown strike to tight end Mark Bavaro. That recep­tion marked Bavaro's first catch in a varsity uniform. Johnston's boot made it Notre Dame 31, Purdue 0 at the intermission. 
But the Irish weren't content to rest on that presumably safe margin. On the fourth play of the second half, Kiel unloaded a 61-yard bomb to flanker Milt Jackson, who was hauled down just inside the one-yard line. Pinkett finally got to add his name to the scoring summary with a one-yard drive over the top. 
Another Campbell interception, this one by cornerback Pat Ballage, and a fumble recovery by Tim Marshall ex­tended the Purdue nightmare. Bell added his final touchdown run, this one from five yards out, and Mike John­ston's PAT upped the commanding Irish lead to 45-0. 
"The touchdowns-they're just part of the game," shrugged a satisfied Bell, whose '82 season was cut short by an ankle injury against Purdue. "I'm happy with the whole offense. I'm not surprised about the 52 points. Our offense can put some points on the board." 
Burtnett, trying desperately to end his team's frustration, inserted reserve Jim Everett in place of Campbell, who had completed just seven of 18 passes for 89 yards with three interceptions to his credit. Those totals were far below the usual numbers for Campbell, a preseason All-America candidate. 
Everett quickly took advantage of the opportunity to strut his · stuff. On his first ·attempt he located Mel Gray for a 23-yard gain and then found Gray again for an eight-yard advance. But the drive expired on the Irish 14­yard line when the Boilers couldn't convert on fourth down. 
On Purdue's next possession, Everett again engineered a drive deep into Notre Dame territory as he completed a 42-yard pass to Hawthorne, who was dragged down from behind by Stacey Toran on the nine-yard line. But Everett's pass intended for Jordan was picked off by cornerback Chris Brown in the end zone. 
Nearly every member of the Notre Dame traveling squad earned playing time as Faust inserted reserves from early in the second quarter. 


"We substituted freely during the game because of the heat," he ex­plained. "We wanted to keep every­body fresh. But when we got so far ahead, it was an easier decision to sub­stitute. We felt our number-two offense and defense had looked good in prac­tice and we wanted to give them a chance to play." 
Even the freshmen got into the act. 

After Brown's end zone interception, second-string q u a r t e r b a c k Scott Grooms, who would later break his collarbone and be sidelined for the rest of the season, guided the Irish to their final touchdown. Rookie tailback Bryon Abraham ran three yards up the middle for the score. Fellow freshman Hia­watha Francisco also flashed signs of a successful future with 81 yards on nine carries. 
One ~freshman -linebacker Mike Kovaleski -even gained a starting nod. The 6-2, 210-pound Kovaleski, who replaced the injured Mike Larkin, shared game-high tackle honors with linebacking mate Rick Naylor. Each had 10 tackles. 
"I was nervous until after the first hit," admitted Kovaleski. "I just give a lot of credit to my teammates on the defense. They were behind me all the way and with them on my side, I couldn't go wrong." 

Purdue finally avoided the shutout with just 4:39 left. Everett hit flanker Rick Brunner with an 18-yard scoring pass. But the Boilers' Walt Drapeza missed the extra point, and Purdue had to settle for a measly six points after gaining 418 yards total offense. 
"The final score is really mislead­ing," said Faust. "We stopped Purdue when we had to. They didn't get many points off us, but giving up that much yardage isn't a good sign. Our defense has a lot of· things to work on." 
Everett, who completed 12 of 21 passes, accounted for 183 yards -a figure that equalled Notre Dame's total passing yardage. 
Notre Dame compiled 522 yards total offense -339 yards on the ground. 
The final Irish point total was the highest ever scored by a Purdue oppo­nent in Ross-Ade Stadium. The vic­tory also marked the sixth time ·in as many tries that Notre Dame has beaten the Boilermakers in a season opener. 
When you're hot you're hot. 
Notre Dame 17 14 14 7 .52 
Purdue 0 0 0 6 6 

Scoring Summal')' First Quarter NO-Greg Bell9 pass from Blair Kiel 
(Mike Johnston kick) Drive: .57 yards in seven plays in 1:.51 following Purdue punt. 

NO-Greg Bell2 run (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 41 yards in seven plays in 2:32 following Purdue punt. 
ND-MikeJohnston31 FG Drive: 24 yards in six plays in 2:21 following Mike Golic fumble recovery. 
Second Quarter 
NO-Greg Bell2 run (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: .52 yards in nine plays in 4:12 following Greg Dingens interception. 
NO-Mike Bavaro 18 pass from Blair Kiel (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: .53 yards in four plays in :2.5 following Tony Furjanic interception. 
Third Quarter 
Time NO PU 11:43 7 0 
4:18 14 0 
:00 17 0 
1:42 24 0 
:33 31 0 

NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run  13:13  38  0  
(Mike Johnston kick)  
Drive: 80 yards in f ive plays in 1:47  
following second·half NO-Greg Bell.S run  kickoff.  9:47  4.5  0  
(Mike Johnston kick)  
Drive: 39 yards in following Tim Marshall recovery. Fourth Quarter  six plays in 1:12  
NO-Byron Abraham 3 run (Mike Johnston kick)  13:.58  .52  0  
Drive: 80 yards in se ven plays in 2:.52  
following Chris Brown interception.  
PU-Rick Brunner 18 pass from Jim Everett  4:39  .52  6  

(Walt Drapeza kick failed) Drive: 70 yards in 11 plays in 3:37 following Notre Dame punt. 

A-69,782(c) 
Team Statistics ND 

First Downs 21 Rushing 13 Passing 7 Penalty 1 Rushing Attempts .57 Yards Rushing 3.53 Yards Lost Rushing .5-14 Net Yards Rushing 339 Net Yards Passing 183 Passes Attempted 19 Passes Completed 10 Had Intercepted 0 Total Offensive Plays 76 Total Net Yards .522 Average Gain Per Play 6.87 Return Yards 12 Fumbles: Number-Lost 0-0 Penalties: Number-Yards 9-73 Interceptions: Number-Yards 3-0 Number of Punts-Yards 6-226 Average Per Punt 36.2 
Individual Statistics Purdue 

Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  
Lloyd Hawthorne Mel Gray Bruce King Eric Jordan  11 12 4 4  4.5 42 2.5 17  1 4 1 0  44 38 24 17  
Rodney Carter Tim Richardson  2 1  10 9  0 0  10 9  
Scott Campbell Jim Everett  4 2  7 4  .5 2  2 2  
Passing Scott Campbell Jim Everett  Att. Comp. 18 21  7 12  Int. 3 1  Yards 89 183  
Pass Receiving Jeff Price  No. 4  Yard5 61  
Marty Scott Mel Gray Rick Brunner  4 4 2  .56 .51 26  
Cliff Benson  2  10  
Lloyd Hawthorne Tim Richardson  1 1  42 14  
Jeff Feulner  I  12  

Notre Dame Rushin~ Att. Gain Lost Net Allen Pmkett 1.5 11.5 0 11.5 H. Francisco 9 83 2 81 Greg Bell 11 47 2 4.5 Scott Grooms 2 33 0 33 Chris Smith .5 29 0 29 Mark Brooks .5 17 0 17 Byron Abraham 4 1.5 1 14 Ray Carter 2 9 0 9 Milt Jackson I 4 0 4 Blair Kiel 2 1 1 0 Steve Beuerlein 1 0 8 -8 
Passing Att. Comp. Int. Yards Blair Kiel 14 9 0 166 Steve Beuerlein 3 1 0 17 Scott Grooms 2 0 0 0 
Pass RecelYlng No. Yards Milt Jackson 2 67 Mike Favorite 2 3.5 Joe Howard 2 32 Allen Pinkett 2 23 Mark Bavaro 1 17 Greg Bell I 9 
PU 21 .5 14 2 
40 
1.59 6-13 146 272 39 19 4 79 418 .5.29 0 
5-3 
8-68 
0-0 
4-1.52 38 
TD Long 0 9 0 8 0 16 0 6 0 6 0 9 0 7 0 4 
m Long 0 29 I 42 
~ Lo~~· 
0 28 0 23 1 18 0 9 0 42 0 14 0 12 
TD Long 1 3.5 0 33 3 12 0 2.5 0 18 0 7 0 10 0 9 0 4 0 1 0 -8 
m Long 2 61 0 17 0 0 
m Long 0 61 0 Li. 0 24 0 14 1 17 1 9 


Michigan State 
So Much for Cloud Nine 
By KAREN CROAKE The magic was back ... or so every­one thought. 

After Notre Dame's 52-6 stampede over Purdue, Irish fans, hungering for another trip to the national champion­ship bowl buffet, were delirious. The lopsided victory over a traditionally 0 tough opponent could mean only one thing-1983 was the year. After all, the Irish were ranked fourth by the Associated Press (one publication had even picked Notre Dame number one), the schedule seemed a bit easier and, well, every football know-it-all said, "With all that talent, the Irish may never lose." 
So Notre Dame students, whose un­usually hefty appetites hadn't been sa­tiated by successive 5-6 and 6-4-1 marks the previous two seasons, were packing their suntan lotion for New Year's Day in Miami. And the Irish alumni, both real and imagined, were contemplating the point spread against the powerful Cornhuskers of Nebraska. "Oh, what a matchup it will be," they said, licking their lips in gleeful antici­pation. 

But while the Irish were sizing their 
fingers for jeweled national champion­

Pi 
II 
r ship rings, feisty Michigan State, an 
:i 18-point underdog prior to kickoff, slipped into Notre Dame Stadium and
·!/ 
boldly stole a 28-23 win in clear view 'I~•. ;.. l·l' of 59,075 witnesses who couldn't quite
;f 
0
believe what was happening. "Some of my friends thought Notre 

l.!:i:iljl
l! Dame was going to beat us," said split end Daryl Turner, who grabbed two
r 
touchdown passes in the Spartans' first decision over the Irish since 1975. "WeII knew if we came in with a good atti­
tude, we could win." But the Spartans used more than just their optmistic outlook on life to upset Notre Dame and send the Irish back out to the whipping shed. Sure, Michigan State showed more than its share of heart, desire and high-fives. But sopho­more quarterback Dave Y arema fired three touchdown passes while complet­ing 15 of 23 throws for 165 yards. The Spartan defense picked off three of Blair Kiel's errant passes (two led di­rectly to touchdowns) and pounced on ~··~ one of four Irish fumbles. Kicker Ralf Mojsiejenko averaged 48.8 yards on Irish sophomore fullback Chris Smith bulls his way for some of his 40 rushing nine punts (including a record-setting yards against the Spartans. 
10 

71-yarder), converted four extra points and booted his kickoffs so far out of the end zone that Irish returners could only stare as the ball sailed over their heads. The Michigan State win was no fluke. "I warned people all week against emphasizing the deceiving margin of victory against ·Purdue," said a disap­pointed Gerry Faust. "We gave up 418 yards total offense last week, so I knew our defense was susceptible. We still have a long way to go to be a good football team. It's an awfully tough loss for us, ·but we'll have to bounce back." 
Although Faust dismissed the notion that his players might have been over­confident, more than one Spartan dis­agreed. 
"I think there was some overconfi­dence in some of the Notre Dame play­ers," observed three-time all-Big Ten linebacker Carl Banks, who had 16 tackles against the Irish. "They didn't say anything, but you could feel it. If they don't change anything, they'll be in trouble." 
And even Notre Dame free safety Chris Brown admitted something was missing. 
"We were just flat, that's my personal opinion," he ·Said. "They were ready to play in the first half, and we weren't. We were ready in the second half, but you have to put two halves together. It was a mental letdown on our part. I'm sure you'll see a different Notre Dame team next Saturday at Miami." 
Notre Dame scored first as the Irish marched 80 yards on their first posses­sion. A two-yard scoring toss from Kiel 
· to tight end Mark Bavaro netted six points. 
But Michigan State wasn't intimi­dated by Notre Dame's methodical, time-consuming drive to the goal line. The Spartans quietly flashed their pen­chant and Notre Dame's weakness for the big play. 
On third and 11 from his own 19­yard line, Y arema rifled a pass over the middle to Turner, who caught the ball at the Irish 40. He shook one tackler loose, as Irish defenders Joe Johnson and Chris Brown collided, and sprinted into the end zone to complete the 81­yard play. 
Ironically, Notre Dame's defense was set in a coverage designed to stop Turner. 
"The-linebacker was supposed to cover the play," explained Johnson, the Irish ~trong safety. "He simply misread the play. He went the way he thought the ball was going. The tight end went down the middle, and he was open. Chris and I went to cover, and Michi­gan State threw underneath. We had the deep man covered on the play." 
Before the first quarter ended, Notre Dame had jumped back in front on 
:II

l : l I 
Mike Golic (55) and Joe Johnson (27) try to put the clamps ••• tailback Greg Bell's 50-yard touchdown dash down the left sideline. Mike John­ston's second PAT gave the Irish a 14-7 advantage. But again the Spartans fought back. 



Kiel threw the first of his three inter­ceptions, and Spartan safety Phil Parker returned it 15 yards to the Irish 
34. On second and 10, junior college transfer Carl Butler blasted through the line of scrimmage and danced 34 yards into the end zone. Mojsiejenko's kick knotted the score. 
Yarema and Turner, who finished the day with four catches for 109 yards, linked up again for another touchdown -this one a 14-yarder. Mojsiejenko added the extra point. 
"The big plays really hurt us," said Faust. "When a team strikes like that and they're hot, it's impossible to stop them." 
Still, the Irish managed to head into their dressing room at halftime with a 21-21 tie. 
Needing four yards to convert a fourth-down play, Kiel found split end Joe Howard on a comeback pattern at the Spartain 11. With just 22 seconds left before the intermission, Kiel scram­bled out of the pocket and heaved an­other pass to Howard, who made a div­ing catch just inside the end zone. Johnston's kick accounted for the dead­lock. 
But Notre Dame's offense wouldn't score another point the rest of the afternoon. The Spartans' stunt 4-3 de­fense (four-lineman, three-linebacker formation) caused the Irish problems with its changing looks all afternoon. 
"They were so much bigger and stronger than we were up there that we knew we had to give them small chunks," explained first-year coach George Perles. "So late in the second quarter and again in the third quarter we made a couple of adjustments. You know, that stunting 4-3 looks the same, but it isn't." 
Banks and linebacking mates Derek Bunch and James Morrissey accounted for 49 stops among them, along with five tackles for losses and one quarter­back sack. 
"Every time you stepped down for a lineman, he'd be slanting away and someone else would be coming," ex­plained Irish offensive guard Neil Maune. "All of a sudden, you're looking for one thing, and something else is happening." 
"They ran a lot of stunts~ and we made some mistakes at the wrong times in the wrong situations," added tackle Larry Williams. "But I felt we outhit them. I don't know if we were flat or if we were just trying to concentrate on what we .had to do." 


Notre Dame managed just one first down in the lackluster third period after Kiel dumped a 16-yard pass over the middle to fullback Chris Smith. Bell, who paced the Irish rushing attack with 114 yards on 18 carries, then burst through the right side for a 12-yard pickup, but fumbled the ball away on the ·Michigan State 43-yard line. 
"I made a big mistake with that fumble-it was a mental letdown on my part," admitted Bell. "There's no excuse for that. I have to hang on to the football. 
"But give Michigan State credit," he continued. "They hit hard. They wanted it more than we did." 
Notre Dame's potent ground game piled up -283 yards behind the efforts of Bell and sophomore Allen Pinkett (104 yards on 25 carries). Both earned kudos from Perles. 
"Our players are hard hitters, but a lot of times they were lunging at air with those two," he praised. "They're good backs." 
Another Irish mistake-Kiel's sec­ond interception...:.__ helped the Spartans to their winning touchdown in the fourth quarter. Again, it was Parker who swiped the ball in mid-air. He ran it back 42 yards to the Irish three-yard line. 
"I should have hit Alonzo Jefferson on the post or gone to the back . . . or just kept it," said Kiel, who finished 15 of 31 for 163 yards and two touch­downs. "I'm responsible for two of their touchdowns. Both of those interceptions were forced. That's stubborn me again." 
Two plays later, Yarema noticed tight end Butch Rolle waiting in the end zone between Stacey Toran and Johnson. Yarema hit him on the numbers, and the Spartans were ahead to stay. 

"I can't believe we won," said Ya­rema. "That offensive ·tine of ours just did a great job. Having all that time back there is like playing street ball. You just stand back there and throw." 
The Irish had two chances to come back. Bavaro snared a 15-yard, over­the-shoulder-catch on fourth down on the Michigan State -21. But two plays later, the Irish were whistled for inten­tional grounding, costing them a pre­cious 22 yards. Notre Dame then came up five yards short on a fourth-and-20 play. 
Michigan State elected to take a safety and free kick from its end zone, giving the Irish just one tick left on the clock. Kiel's desp·eration pass toward the goal line was caught by Spartan safety Tim Cunningham. 
"I'm scared to say what I think about these guys because I don't want to spoil them," said Perles, whose Spartans went to 2-0 after winning just a pair of games all of 1982. "This was new to me. I've never gone into a game where the point spread was so high against me. It's not any fun. I told the team to go out and play as hard as they can, that they'd have a lifetime to remember it, to play for themselves, their family and the team." 
While Michigan State players were savoring every moment of their well­deserved victory, the Irish were wonder­ing how things could change so quickly. A week ago they were the ones cele­brating. 
But Notre Dame could not afford to ponder the question for very long. A date in the Orange Bowl was just seven days away-and against a team that turned out to be a point better than those vaunted Huskers. 
Michigan State 7 14 0 7 28 ' 
Notre Dame 14 7 0 2 23 
Scoring Summary 

Flnl Quarter Time MS ND 
NO-Mark Bavaro 2 pass from Blair Kiel 8:S2 7 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 80 yards in IS plays in 6:08 following opening kickoff; Big Plays: Allen Pinkett run for 14 yards, Blair Kiel run for one yard on fourth down. 
MS-Daryl Turner 81 pass from Dave Yarema 8:28 (Ralf Mojsiejenko kick) • Drive: 80 yards in three plays in :24 following Notre Dame kickoff. 
ND-GregBeiiSOrun I:SI 14 7 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 88 yards in eight plays in 2:S7 following Michigan State punt; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Chris Smith for II yards. 
Second Quarter 
MS-Carl Butler 34 run 14:21 14 14 (Ralf Mojsiejenko kick) Drive: 34 yards in two plays in :14 following Phil Parker interception of Notre Dame pass. 
NO-Daryl Turner 11 pass from Dave Yarema 9:0S 14 21 (Ralf Mojsiejenko kick) Drive: 70 yards in eight plays in 3:41 following Notre Dame quick kick; Big Play: Dave Yarema pass to Bobby Morse for 34 yards. 
NO-Joe Howard 13 pass from Blair Kiel :22 21 21 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 43 yards in nine plays in 3:1S following Michigan State punt; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Joe Howard for IS yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
MS-Donald Rolle S pass from Dave Yarema 8:S9 21 28 (Ralf Mojsiejenko kick) Drive: Three yards in two plays in :SI following Phil Parker interception of Notre Dame pass and 42-yard return. 
NO-Safety, Dave Yarema forced out of end zone by Joe Johnson :04 23 28 A-S9,07S(c) ­
Team Statistics MSU ND 

First Downs 9 2S Rushing 4 16 Passing 4 8 Penalty I I Rushing Attempts 29 60 Yards Rushing 104 309 Yards Lost Rushing 44 26 Net Yards Rushing 60 283 Net Yards Passing 16S 163 Passes Attempted 23 31 Passes Completed IS IS Had Intercepted 0 3 Total Offensive Plays S2 91 Total Net Yards 22S 446 Average Gain Per Play 4.3 4.9 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 4-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 3-24 9-69 Interceptions: Number-Yards 3·S1 Q.O Number of Punts-Yards 9-440 7-3S3 Average Per Punt 48.8 44.1 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 4-16 8-43 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 3-94 3-26 Third Down Conversions 2-12 9-21 
Individual Statistics Michigan Stale 

Rushing Carl Butler  Att. 18  Gain Lost 100 2  Net 98  TD I  Long 34  
Daryl Turner Dean Altobelli  I I  2 I  0 0  2 I  0 0  2 I  
Bobby Morse Dave Yarema  2 7  I 0  0 42  I -42  0 0  I ·I  
Passing Dave Yarema  Att. Comp. 23  IS  Int. 0  Yards l6S  TD 3  Long 81  
Pass Receiving Daryl Turner Bobby Morse  No. 4 4  Yards 109 39  TD 2 0  Long 81 34  
Carl Butler  4  -I  0  9  
Donald Rolle  2  13  I  8  
Dean Altobelli  I  s  0  s  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Greg Bell  Att. 18  Gain 121  Lost 7  Net 114  TD I  Long so  
Allen Pinkett  2S  110  6  104  0  17  
Chris Smith  7  40  0  40  0  12  
Mark Brooks  2  12  0  12  0  7  
Blair Kiel  7  20  13  7  0  7  
Joe Howard  I  6  0  6  0  6  
Passing Blair Kiel  Att. <Amp. 31  IS  Int. 3  Yards 163  TD 2  Long 19  
Pass Receiving Joe Howard  No. 4  Yards Sl  TD I  Long 16  
Milt Jackson  2  34  0  19  
Mark Bavaro  2  17  I  IS  
Allen Pinkett  2  14  0  10  
Chris Smith  2  27  0  16  
Greg Bell  3  20  0  11  

Have a Cocktail for 'Canes 
1
Miami i 
I 
I 
By JOHN ~EISLER 
Miami, both the city and the univer­sity, pulled out all the stops when CBS announced its plans to nationally tele­vise in prime time the Notre Dame­Miami football game. 
An Orange Bowl-style halftime ex­travaganza was planned. Parties, pep rallies, concerts, bands, fireworks, bar­becues and all kinds of other events served as pre-game warmup fodder. Miami, Coral Gables and Dade Coul}ty · spent $50,000 to promote what was billed as "A Classic College Football Weekend." 
Bacardi Imports, the rum-makers whose international headquarters are in Miami, went one step further. They in­vented a drink to be sold in bars around the nation while patrons were viewing the Notre Dame-Miami contest. It con­tained O'Darby Irish cream, rum and orange juice. 
The game itself fit right in with the exotic concoction, billed as the "Irish Hurricane." 
It was the Hurricanes who did the juicing on the Orange Bowl turf and the Irish who got creamed. 
The Irish, apparently, got the Miami players upset by losing to Michigan State the previous weekend. "I was a little disappointed," said Hurricane linebacker Jay Brophy. "I wanted them to come into the Orange Bowl unde­feated so we could be the first ones to beat them." 
Instead, Miami displayed surprising defensive quickness and exploited the talents of redshirted freshmen Bernie Kosar and Reggie Sutton to whitewash Notre Dame 20-0. 
Kosar, in his first year as 'a starter and replacement for all-star Jim Kelly, played like a veteran in only his third game as a starting quarterback. His 22 completions in 33 attempts for 215 yards kept the Irish off balance all night long. He was especially masterful on a 14-play, 70-yard drive that took up the first seven minutes of the third period. Kosar completed six of seven passes during the march, which ended in a field goal, effectively blunted any Irish comeback hopes and put the Hurricanes ahead 17-0. 
Sutton sideswiped a pair of Mike 
Johnston field goal attempts as the Irish 
three times reached the Miami 1 0-yard 
line and never came up with points to 
show for it. 
Notre Dame didn't get out of its own 
territory until midway through the sec­
ond period after rookie Steve Beuerlein 
had replaced Blair Kiel (two of eight 
passing in the first half for 15 yards, 
with one interception). Beuerlein took 
Notre Dame 72 yards to the Miami 
nine -where Sutton scooted in un­
touched from the left side and rejected 
Johnston's 27-yard three-point try. 
"All I do is set up and watch the 
center and the ball," said Sutton, the 
cornerback Miami coaches thought the 
Irish passing game would pick on be­
cause of his freshman status. "As soon 
as he raises up from looking between 
his legs, I just take off. Nobody was as­
signed to me. As soon as I get past the · 
end guy, I take a good dive and lay 
out." 

After the Hurricanes had taken the 17-0 lead, Kiel directed the visitors 68 · yards from their own 25-yard line to 

Freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein provides one of the few bright spots against the Hurricanes, who lost their first game of the year and then won 11 straight. Beuerlein came off the bench in each half, completed 13 of 23 passes for 145 yards and was named CBS' Notre Dame MVP. 

Hurricane freshman Reggie Sutton blocks one of the pair of. Mike Johnston field-goal attempts he personally disallowed in the nationally-televised matchup. Sutton literally had a hand in shutting out Notre Dame by a20-0 count. 
the Miami seven. Johnston tried again, 

The Irish could have capitalized on and Sutton did the exact same thing. 
two first-half Miami turnovers. But
''Our defense was all 

_ neither a Rick Naylor interception on was a matter of the Notre Dame field­
Irish coach Gerry Faust later said it 
over the field. We knew 

Miami's first offensive possession nor a goal team not noticing the angle from 
Mike Kovaleski fumble recovery
we would have difficulty 
pushed Notre Dame past its own 44­which Johnston was kicking. The Irish 
beating them one on one. 

yard line. Just. prior to halftime, the with an extra man protecting the flank 
should have been in an unbalanced line, 
We had to have group­

Irish drove 44 yards to the Miami 23, from which Sutton sped. 
saw a delay penalty wipe out a Kevin
tackling and pursuit all 
Smith incompletion on a fake fieldNotre Dame's other serious foray into 
over the field, and we 

goal-then saw Johnston miss wide possession with Beuerlein at the con­
Hurricane turf came on the final Irish 

right from 4 7 yards away. trols. With Miami expecting passes all 
had it tonight. 
Miami added its final points on a
We're pleased with the 
36-yard Jeff Davis field goal afterthe way, Beuerlein did just that, twice 
way we looked. I'm sure 

Kenny Sisk picked off. a Kiel pass and twice more doing the trick on third 
converting on fourth-down throws and 

brought it to the Irish 38. down. The drive ended after reaching 
you can dream a lot 
The Hurricane defense did every­
about a shutout, but I'm 

thing it needed to add .to its scoreless on fourth down with 48 seconds re­
the Miami four as Beuerlein was sacked 
·sure our defensive 

streak (11 straight quarters without be­maining. 
ing scored upon) and squelch Notre Meanwhile, Notre Dame's own of­
coaches and players were 
Dame's ground gain. Notre Dame's 102
talking about a shutout 

net rushing yards marked its lowest Jay Brophy interception of a Kiel pass 
fensive mistakes led to its undoing. A 
all week. I didn't have 

production of the '83 campaign, while set the Hurricanes up on the Notre 
Pinkett's 58 yards marked his smallest
in my wildest dreams 

sum as a sophomore. Miami used itsDame 30 late in the first period. Eight 
that we co.uld play this 

quickness to string out the Irish sweeps the two for a 7-0 advantage. Early in 
plays later, Speedy Neal ran it in from 
well, but the assistant 

-never letting Notre Dame tailbacks the third quarter, Kiel. and fullback 
turn the corner, making five tackles for
coache$ and the players 

lost yardage and three times sackingChris Smith missed connections on a 
dreamt it, worked at it 

Beuerlein when he did try to throw. Irish 26. Five plays later on a third­
handoff and gave Miami the ball on the 
and then went out and 

For their part, the Irish had little to and-seven situation, Kosar alley-ooped 
say about their effort. 
did it.Maybe I just don't 

·"I'm responsible for the loss," claimed a pop fly 12 yards to Ed Brown for six 
know how good 

Kiel, who watched Beuerlein finish each It was one of "1 0 to 15" audibles Kosar 
points over the top of an Irish blitz. 
half and win the CBS Irish player-of­
we are.,, 

the-game award for completing 13 of "I just saw they were going. to be 
said he called. 
23 throws for 145 yards. "I'm sick and
-Howard 

upset. But taking me out was the logical we had wouldn't have been too good 
blitzing a second man, and the play 

thing to do. We needed a spark and I against that," Kosar said. 
Schnellenberger 
wasn't doing anything." 



"To sum it · up, we got our butts kicked on national television," allowed Pinkett. 
Faust, who obviously didn't enjoy watcliing his team fall to 1-2 after such lofty preseason suggestions, wasn't amused. 
"It's pretty bleak, I guess, if you look at it from the other end. But I don't feel that way. We're having our prob­lems so far this year, but we feel we'll be better. Call me an eternal optimist, but I think we're still in good shape. It's a young season." 
What had Faust told the squad after the game? 
"Nothing," he said. "When you're up­set, it's best not to say anything. They played well. We made some errors." 
What little talking the Irish did after the game, Miami made up for during the game. The Hurricanes reveled in that fact. 
"We called them names," said Sutton. "We told them to take all their stuff back home. They started talking back to us and that took their minds off the game. A player starts doing that, and he's going to forget about his plays. They got mad at us. That's when you know you have them." 
"I think we intimidated them," said middle guard Tony Fitzpatrick. 
"We dominated them. We knew what 
they were going to do almost before 
they did it. They were scared to run 
the football. 
"We went up there last year to play, and I was leery. Awed. It was, like, ghosts all around. 
"But this is the biggest win I've ever been associated with. As a little kid, I remember watching Notre Dame on TV. Knute Rockne and all those guys." 
"I said earlier I didn't think we had 
reached our capabilities," said Brophy. 
"After tonight, I think we are reaching 
them. There's no telling how good this 
defense can be." 
"Our defense was all over the field," said Miami coach Howard Schnellen­berger, ·whose Hurricanes h<:td dis­mantled the Irish in similar fashion at the Orange Bowl in '81 in another na­tionally-televised affair. 
"We knew we would have difficulty beating them one on one. We had to have group tackling and pursuit all over the field, and we had it tonight. 
"We're pleased with the way we 
looked. I'm sure you can dream a lot 
about a shutout, but I'm sure our de.; 
fensive coaches and players were talk­
ing about a shutout all week. I didn't 
have in my wildest dreams that we 
could play this well, but the assistant 
coaches and the players dreamt it, 
worked at it and then went out and 
did it. 
"Maybe I just didn't know how good 
we are." 
Schnellenberger had been almost pro­phetic earlier in the week as he looked toward the game. 
"I just hope our kids aren't as excited about this game as I am and that the events of the week don't get them into such a hype that it interferes with cool play," he said. 

"I feel a little like General Eisen­hower in the English Channel on the way to Normandy. We've left our in­jured behind, and now we're ready to hit the beaches." 
"Every television preview I saw of the game, it was Notre Dame this and Notre Dame that," said Sutton. "It made me feel like we were just showing up." 
The Hurricanes did ever so much more than that. They sent Notre Dame home with a pain even a double "Irish Hurricane" couldn't numb. 


Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0 
Miami 7 20 
Scoring Summary 
Flnt Quarter Time UM ND 
UM-Specdy Nca12 run :20 7 0 (Jeff Davis kick) Drive: 30 yards in eight plays in 2:27 following Jay Brophy interception of Notre Dame pass; Big Play: Keith Grif­fin run for 12 yards. 
Second Quarter 
UM-Ed Brown 12 pass from Bernie Kosar 9:39 14 0 (Jeff Davis kick) Drive: 26 yards in five plays in 2:00 following Winston Moss recovery of Notre Dame fumble. 
Third Quarter 
UM-Jeff Davis 27 FG 8:00 17 0 Drive: 70 yards in IS plays in 7:00 following sccond·half kickoff; Big Play: Bernie Kosar pass to Albert Bentley for 15 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
UM-Jeff Davis 36 FG 6:06 20 0 Drive: 19 yards in five plays in 2:24 following Kenny Sisk interception of Notre Dame pass. 
A-52,480 
Team Statistics ND UM 

First Downs 22 19 Rushing 7 6 Passing 13 11 Penalty 2 2 
Rushing Attempts 38 34 Yards Rushing 134 102 Yards Lost Rushing 10-32 8-21 Net Yards Rushing 102 81 Net Yards Passing 233 215 Passes Attempted 44 33 Passes Completed 22 22 Had Intercepted 2 1 
Total Offensive Plays 82 67 Total Net Yards 335 296 
Average Gain Per Play 4.08 4.42 Return Yards 17 20 Fumbles: Number-Lost 2-1 1-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 7-73 6-64 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-0 2-12 Number of Punts-Yards 4-125 3-121 
Average Per Punt 31.3 40.3 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 0 2-8 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 2-17 0-0 Possession Time 28:28 31:32 Third-Down Conversions 10-21 6-12 
Individual Statistics Miami 

Rushing Keith Griffin  Att.• 9  Gain Lost 39 0  Net 39  TD 0  Long 12  
Speedy Neal  9  30  0  30  1  9  
Albert Bentley  9  31  3  28  0  13  
K. Vanderwende  1  2  0  2  0  2  
A. Highsmith  I  0  1  -1  0  -1  
Bernie Kosar  s  0  17  -17  0  -2  
Passing Bernie Kosar  AU. Comp. 33 22  Int. 1  Yards 215  m 1  Long 19  
Pass Receiving Glenn Dennison  No. 8  Yards 15  m 0  Long 19  
Ed Brown  3  39  1  17  
Albert Bentley S. Shakespeare  2 4  26 34  0 0  IS 15  
Keith Griffin  3  29  0  13  
Speedy Neal  2  12  0  10  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Allen Pinkett  AU. 15  Gain Lost 65 7  Net 58  TD 0  Long 18  
Chris Smith  8  41  0  41  0  13  
Mark Brooks  1  4  0  4  0  4  
Greg Bell Blair Kiel  4 3  s 3  1 s  4 -2  0 0  2 3  
Steve Beuerlein  7  16  19  -3  0  8  
Passing  Au. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Blair Kiel  21  9  2  88  0  16  
Steve Bcuerlein  23  13  0  145  0  2S  
Pass Receiving Allen Pinkett  No. s  Yards 30  m 0  Long 8  
Joe Howard  4  32  0  9  
Mark Bavaro  2  18  0  11  
Greg Bell  2  36  0  23  
Alonzo Jefferson  2  32  0  16  
Milt Jackson  2  37  0  21  
Chris Smith  2  7  0  7  
Mike Favorite  1  10  0  10  
Alvin Miller  1  2S  0  2S  
Joel Williams  1  6  0  6  

Colorado 



Back to Business 

...... ~.·, -· ~-~ < _, --~ -... --•• -~-.· :_.' 
By JOHN HEISLER 
As consecutive losses to Michigan State and Miami plus an overall 1-2 record might suggest, it was not much . fun around the Notre Dame football camp the week prior to the Irish match with Colorado. 
Things hadn't quite gone according to form and the Monday morning quarterbacks were having a heyday. 
"We have to get things ironed out," admitted Gerry Faust, the Irish head coach. "A lot of poeple think they have the answers, but I don't know if they do." 
In fact, the enemy stronghold in Boulder -where Colorado coach Bill McCartney called criticism of Faust "unfair" -provided one of the few positive notes. The players, meanwhile, took things into their own hands. They 
. . ~ ...-. --~ ~ ~ .. _.. --. .... -~ . . .. . . . 
did it, without coaches, in a Monday night meeting that took on epic signif­icance by prompting a five-game win­ning skein. 
If any criticism rising out of the ashes at Miami hit home, it was the one suggesting the Irish had played without emotion, without that usual enthusiasm. The players decided on their own to change all that, and Faust noted by the very next morning, "Our kids are mad." 
The bare score that came out of Folsom Field in Boulder that next Saturday looked simple enough -a 27-3 win for the Irish. But there was far more meaning in the dominating · way it was accomplished. 
"We didn't have any friends around here (the Notre Dame campus), that's for sure," noted sophomore fullback 
Chris Smith, who rushed for 70 yards 
including  a  29-yard  scoring  romp  
versus  the Buffs.  
"People  were  down  on  us  like you  

wouldn't believe. They were more patient Coach Faust's first two years, but it was like all the patience had left them ~II at once. We felt like nobody liked us anymore. Our own fans were turning on us. That's when we decided to hold our meeting." 
"Quite a few people stood up and said how they felt," noted linebacker Rick Naylor. "And we came up with this conclusion: We figured the heck with the fans, the heck with the media. We figured, 'Let's win some games for ourselves.' " 
"A lot of people had given up on us," added tailback Allen Pinkett, who added a career-high 132 rushing yards. 
"They thought our season was over. But this is like a new season. Maybe we were trying too hard out there. After the meeting, we decided to relax and have fun out there. 
"We realized that all we had to do was pick up the pieces because it's early and we know we're still in con­tention for something at the end." 
"You could feel it out there," said offensive tackle Larry Williams. "You could just feel something you couldn't feel the last two weeks. All that grief we'd been taking just built up inside us and we decided to go out there· and beat on some people." 
Williams and his offensive line mates did indeed do some beating on the Folsom Field artificial turf. They helped Pinkett and his backfield mates chalk up 334 net rushing yards. 
On a day that was noteworthy be­cause rookie quarterback Steve Beuer­lein made his first start, it wasn't the passing game that stood out. Oh, sure, the freshman from Fullerton, Calif., did his fair share. He gave off the cool, calm and -collected air expected of him and promptly nailed eight of his 12 pass attempts on target -in­eluding a 58-yard first-period bomb to Joe Howard to set up the first of Mike Johnston's two field goals. But it was the runners, or more to the point the blockers, who buffaloed the Buffs. And the Colorado players couldn't have agreed more. 
"In my mind, Notre Dame's offen­sive line played as close to a perfect game as I've ever seen," said Buff nose guard Don Muncie. "They just did what they were supposed to. They executed really well; they just made no opportunity for me to outsmart them. They hit at the right time. When we thought they'd pass, they'd run. When we thought they'd run, they'd pass." 
"I don't know what went wrong," said defensive tackle George Smith. "They didn't intimidate us, but then they didn't miss a block, either. It always seemed like there was someone there to block you. 
"To have a great team, you have to feel you can go one-two-three out and make them punt, but we didn't do that today." 
"It seemed like everything they tried worked," concurred tackle Vince Raf­ferty. 
The Irish offensive line worked with tenacious precision once Notre Dame took the opening kickoff. In fact, its~ domination on that opening 80-yard drive was so great that the sideline markers never got as far as third down. 
Boom, Pinkett went right for 13 yards. Boom, Pinkett went left for 36. Boom, Beuerlein threw to Howard for nine yards. Boom, Pinkett went left for 10 yards and a touchdown. All four of those were second-down plays -and just like that the Irish led 7-0. 
"I've never had bigger holes made for me by our line. Everything was just the right level of intensity today," added Pinkett. 
Though Colorado bounced right back -with a field goal, for their only points of the afternoon, Notre Dame's second drive wasn't much different. Beuerlein's flea-flicker toss to Howard highlighted this one -and after his scoring pass to Mark Bavaro was brought back by interference, Johnston booted the three-pointer from 21 yards. 
"They didn't fool me," said Colo­rado's Victor Scott of the deep throw to Howard. "I saw the whole thing 


· Senior linebacker Rick Naylor (37) and cornerback Stacey Toran (30) move in on Buff tight end Dave Hestera (87) as Colorado center Steve Heron tries to fend off Toran. 
happening, and I thought I was right with the guy. I was right on him and I had my hands up. I thought the ball would be deflected off my hands, but it went right through them." 
The third Irish possession ended on downs at the Colorado five (Byron Abraham lost a yard on fourth down), but the fourth produced a touchdown, making it 17-3. Hiawatha Francisco ran five times for 29 yards, Beuerlein threw three times for 26 and junior fullback Mark Brooks crashed the final 31. 
Colorado got a reprieve when John­ston's 38-yard attempt for a field goal, tipped by Scott, sailed left at the half­time gun-but it didn't last long. The Buffs missed a 38-yarder of their own to start the second half, and the rout continued. Pinkett bopped for 25 yards to start the drive, and Chris Smith rumbled for 29 to end it. Boom, it was 24-3. If there was any doubt remaining, Johnston cancelled it with a 39-yard field goal two minutes into the final period. That came after Colo­
66:We didn't have any friends around here, that's for sure. People were down on us like you wouldn't believe. They were more patient Coach Faust's first two years, but it was like all the patience had left · them all at once. We felt like nobody liked us anymore. Our own. fans were turning on us. That's when we decided 
to hold a meeting.,, 
-Chris Smith 

rado had moved to the Irish 42, only to fumble the football away on a fourth-and-five play that ended in a seven-yard loss. 
If anyone appreciated the domi­nance of the Notre Dame attack, it was Beuerlein. He needed to attempt only one pass the entire second half. 
"When you have the running game going, there's no reason to throw the ball," the freshman reasoned. "But I was in awe of the situation today. I'm just a freshman and lucky to be a part of the team. I never dreamed I would get to start a game. I was so nervous early in the week that nothing seemed to work. But Blair Kiel and the coaches did a good job and got me to relax. Once I relaxed, things seemed to go okay." 
McCartney credited the Irish audi­bles (Faust figured Beuerlein called eight or nine) with helping Notre Dame even its record. 
"He (Beuerlein) showed good poise in the way he handled himself, and he got them in the right play. He kept us 

Sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett seeks an opening in the Colorado defense, as Irish senior guard Neil Maune (79) looks for another Buff player to block. . 
6'Seemingly, going in, we were catching them at a time when they were having some problems. And I felt the fact they· had a freshman quarterback starting was to our advantage. Maybe it wasn't. I didn't expect them to play errorless football. Any time a team that big and strong doesn't make any errors, they'll be hard to beat. We lost to a better team. They were in control all the way. 9 9 
-Bill McCartney 

from ganging up on them. I credit their did not play. Sophomore offensive staff for giving him things he could do. tackle Mike Perrino and freshmen 
"Seemingly, going in, we were catch­Mike Griffin (defensive tackle) and ing them at a time when they were Steve Lawrence (free safety) all made having some problems. And I felt the their first career starts. They thor­fact they had a freshman quarterback oughly enjoyed what turned out to be starting was to our advantage. Maybe a refreshingly enjoyable afternoon in it wasn't. the Boulder foothills. 
"I didn't expect them to play error­"Our defense caqte up with the big free football. Any time a team that big play when they had to come up with and strong doesn't make any errors, it," said Faust, "and our offense con­they'll be hard to beat." troiied the bail weii. We made some 
McCartney also knew his Buffs mistakes, but we minimized our mis­missed out on a key chance to get takes." themselves back into the footbaii game. "We lost to a better team," Mc­Colorado took the second-half kickoff Cartney concluded matter-of-factly, and drove 71 yards for a first down at "They were in control ail the way." the Notre Dame nine. But quarterback The evidence mounted up quickly-
Steve Vogel underthrew Loy Alex­494 total yards to 236 for Colorado, ander on first down, caiied a wrong 334 rushing yards to 108 for Colorado, formation and threw incomplete to 343 total yards in the first half to 80 
fuilback Lee Rouson on second down 

for the Buffs. -then was sacked for a loss of 12 "We realize we have a good footballyards on third down. Tom Field missed team," noted Pinkett. "It's not too latehis 3 8-yard field goal attempt, and the to have a great year if we play intenseIrish went the other way for six points football."
in seven plays. 
Intense was the word for the day,"That was critical," said McCartney. 
not to mention convincing and turn­Critical for the Irish was. the matter over-free.
of getting through the football game "There's no doubt in my mind we'dwithout adding to an already overex­be 4-0 right now if we'd come out withtended injury list. Tackle Mike Shiner, this same kind of intensity the past twotailback Greg Bell and defensive tackle weeks," said Smith. ·

Eric Dorsey stayed home with leg in­juries-and defensive backs Joe John­Somehow 2-2 didn't seem so bad son and Daane Spielmaker came but after all. 
''A lot of people had given up on us. They 
thought our season was over. But this is like a new season. Maybe we were trying' too hard out there. After the meeting, we decided to relax and have fun out there. We realized all we had to do was pick up the pieces because it's early and we know we're still in contention 
for something at the end.,, 
-Allen Pinkett 
Colorado 0 0 
Notre Dame 10 3 27 
Scoring Summary Flnt Quarter Time CU ND NO-Allen Pinkett 10 run II :37 0 7 
(Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 80 yards in eight plays in 3:23 following opening kickoff; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 36 yards. 
CU-Tom Field 43 FG 7:36 3 7 Drive: 53 yards in 10 plays in 4:01 following Notre Dame kickoff; Big Play: Steve Vogel pass to Dave Hestera for 14 yards. 
ND-MikeJohnston21 FG 4:32 3 10 Drive: 77 yards in six plays in 3:04 following Colorado kickoff; Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 58 yards. 
Second Quarter 
ND-MarkBrooks31 run 6:10 3 17 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 92 yards in II plays in 5:03 following Colorado punt; Big Plays: Steve Beuerlein passes to Mark Bavaro and Hiawatha Francisco for nine yards each. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Chris Smith 29 run 8:20 3 24 Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 79 yards in seven plays in 3:25 following missed field goal by Col­orado; Big Play: Allen Pinket run for 
2.S yards. Fourth Quarter NO-Mike Johnston 39 FG 12:59 3 27 
Drive: 29 yards in seven plays in 3:39 following loss of ball on downs by Col­orado; Big Play: Hiawatha Francisco run for nine yards. 
A-52,692 
Team Statistics ND cu 
First Downs 24 20 Rushing 17 10 Passing 6 8 Penalty I 2 Rushing Attempts 54 32 Yards Rushing 354 147 Yards Lost Rushing 8-20 9-39 Net Yards Rushing 334 108 Net Yards Passing 160 128 Passes Attempted 16 32 Passes Completed 10 IS Had Intercepted 0 I Total Offensive Plays 70 64 Total Net Yards 494 236 Average Gain Per Play 7.0 3.7 Return Yards 41 30 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1..() 4..() Penalties: Number-Yards 6-57 3-27 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-43 0..() Number of Punts-Yards 2-77 4-174 Average Per Punt 38.5 43.5 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3--2 1-30 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-17 0..() Possession Time 32:10 27:50 Third-Down Conversions 6-12 .S-13 
Individual Statistics Colorado 
Rushing Lee Rouson  AU. II  Gain Lost 54 I  Net 53  TD 0  LonR. 13  
Darryl Johnson Steve Vogel Chris McLemore  9 4 3  48 2S 4  3 19 I  4S 6 3  0 0 0  IS 20 2  
Derek Marshall  3  14  12  2  0  14  
Guy Egging Loy Alexander  I I  2 0  0 3  2 -3  0 0  2 -3  
PasslnR Steve Vogel Derek Marshall  AU. Comp. 2.S 12 7 3  Int. 0 I  Yards 90 38  TD 0 0  Long 16 37  
Loy Alexander  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Pass Receiving Steve Vogel Lee Rouson  No. 4 4  Yards 43 22  TD 0 0  LonR 16 16  
Loy Alexander Ron Brown  3 I  21 37  0 0  10 37  
Darryl Johnson Chris McLemore  I I  9 4  0 0  9 4  
Jon Embree  I  -8  0  -8  
RushlnR  Notre Dame Au. Gain Lost  Net  TD  LonR  
Allen Pinkett  18  136  4  132  I  36  
Chris Smith  10  72  2  70  I  29  
H. Francisco  10  49  0  49  0  9  
Mark Brooks  3  42  0  42  I  31  
Lester Flemons  4  36  3  33  0  34  
Dave Machtolf  4  IS  2  13  0  9  
Joe Howard  I  4  0  4  0  4  
B)Ton Abraham Blair Kiel  3 I  0 0  4 s  -4 -S  0 0  0 -S  
PasslnR Steve Beuerlein  Au. Comp. 12 8  Int. 0  Yards 133  TD 0  LonR 58  
Blair Kiel  3  2  0  27  0  I.S  
Kevin Smith :  I  0  0  0  0  0  
Pass Receiving Joe Howard  No. 4  Yards 83  TD 0  LonR 58  
H. Francisco  3  36  0  IS  
Mark Bavaro  2  27  0  18  
Chris Smith  I  14  0  14  


South Carolina 

Raining on the 'Cocks' Parade 
By JOHN LEWANDOWSKI Oh, what party-poopers. Here they came, a Williams-Brice 
Stadium record crowd of 74,500 fans, all ready to ambush Notre Dame and toast another South Carolina upset vic­

. tory. 
South Carolina, with the greatest win in school history (a 38-14 victory over USC) in the books, was anxious to knock off a second football power in a row. 
But Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust and the Fighting Irish had . planned a victory party of their own. The Irish succeeded in taking the roar­ing crowd out of the game by scoring early and often. Notre Dame scored on its first five possessions of the game and sent the partygoers home disappointed. The Irish prevailed 30-6. 
"I told our players they had to take the game away from the crowd," _said Faust. "The only way to hold the noise level down was by taking the ball away and scoring early." 
South Carolina took the opening kickoff and registered one first down via a penalty. But after three plays netted one yard, the swarming Irish de­fense forced a punt. Following a 32­yard punt by Chris Norman, Notre Dame took over on its own 28. 
On the first play from scrimmage, Irish sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett burst off left tackle and galloped 53 yards to the Gamecock 19-yard line be­fore three defenders ran him down. The drive stalled at the South Carolina 32 following an offensive pass interference call against the Irish. Notre Dame set­tled for a 49-yard field goal by Mike Johnston with 12:18 remaining in the first quarter. 
"The first play was a big one," ex­plained Notre Dame freshman quarter­back Steve Beuerlein, who guided the Irish to a second straight victory in as 

-many starts. "You get one like that, and you know there are a lot of good ones · going to follow it." 
"We knew the crowd would be a 

-factor," said Pinkett, who rushed for 114 yards on 22 carries and scored two touchdowns. "We were told it would be an experience beyond· imagination. We also knew we could take them (the crowd) out of the game if we jumped Gamecock defensive end James Sumpter tries in vain to block a Steve Beuerlein out to a quick lead. That's what we pass attempt in South Carolina's 30-6 loss to the Irish. 
wanted to do, and that's exactly what we did." On its next possession, South Caro­lina's veer failed to notch a first down 

· against Notre Dame's "Dallas flex" de­fense.· And the Irish offense was back on the field in a· matter of 58 seconds. On third and eight from the Irish 34, Beuerlein found tight end Mark Bavaro open over the middle for 21 yards and a first down at the Gamecock 45. Five plays later the Irish scored their first touchdown of the evening. On third and two from the South Carolina 26, Beuer­lein lofted a pass out to fullback Chris Smith in the left flat. Smith gathered in the pass and rambled untouched into the end zone. Johnston tacked on the extra point and with 6:43 left in the first quarter the Irish led 10-0. The Notre Dame defense forced a turnover on the next series. Senior cornerback Chris Brown intercepted Allen Mitchell's pass at the Irish 48 and returned it 24 yards to the Gamecock 
28. On first down, Beuerlein hit split end Joe Howard for nine yards. The Irish reached the South Carolina 10 on two runs by Pinkett that netted nine yards. The Gamecock defense stiffened and Johnston connected on his second field goal of the night-this one from 
I 
~~
.... 
.. .--............
'.. . . ~ .. : 
66we knew the crowd. would be a factor. We were told it would be an experience beyond imagination. We also knew we could take them out of the game if we jumped out to a quick lead. That's what we wanted to do, and that's exactly what we did.,, 
-Allen Pinkett 


•. ;::::·.; N::~; ~~~;;!':;:~· .....~;.~~-~.........,.;,~;~;:.;:;;~;;:-~·r.rr~~~ 
;.·,-:-, \ ~-..~~-. .... • ·.~·. ;<' ~ ·_:, 
•· 
.. 

-·· ···~--.;.•.--··· . ----......... ~:: .... ---~"'--·--.:-............ -.:...-:::.•........__-. 
27 yards out-as Notre Dame in­
creased its lead to 13-0 with 2:32 left 
in the initial quarter. 
South Carolina turned the ball over 
again on its next possession. On second 
and 10 from the Gamecock 34, Mitch­
ell rolled right with defensive end Mike 
Golic in pursuit. Mitchell fumbled 
when he was hauled down by Golic and 
Joe Johnson pounced on the loose ball 
at the 25. 
The Fighting Irish failed to mount a 
drive. But Johnston added a 41-yard 
field goal on the first play of the second 
quarter as Notre Dame widened its ad­
vantage to 16-0. Johnston's three­
pointer marked the fourth time in his 
career that he has kicked three field 
goals in a single game. 

On its next possession, Notre Dame put the game out of reach. Beuerlein hooked up with Pinkett to up. the Irish lead to 23-0. On second and 14 from ·the Notre Dame 41, Beuerlein found Pinkett underneath the linebackers, and the Sterling, Va., native raced 59 yards for the touchdown with 11:33 left be­
fore intermission. 
"There's no linebacker alive that can 
catch Allen Pinkett," declared Beuer­
lein, who completed 10 of 14 passes 
for 159 yards and two scores. 

Veteran Irish placekicker Mike Johnston connects on one of his three successful field goals versus the Gamecocks. The South Carolina game marked the fourth time in his career he had kicked three field goals in one game -and earned him a game ball. 


Notre Dame totally dominated the first 30 minutes of action. The Game­cock defense played the entire first half in the shadow of its own end zone. A well-balanced Irish offense accounted for 222 yards (103 rushing, 119 pass­ing) in the first half, while South Caro­lina, which crossed midfield only once in the first half, could muster only 77 yards. 
"We just wanted to slow-play it (the veer) so our secondary could have a chance to roll up to the pitch man," said Golic, who recorded a team-high 1 0 tackles for the Irish and spent al­most the entire evening in the South Carolina backfield. "We wanted to slow­play the quarterback and not give him any seam." 
"I don't think we executed the op­tion, or any of the offense," said Mitch~ ell, who accounted for just 19 yards
. ··--··--·,_ ·, ' -~. ~~-..... :. -····-· -~• 
total offense (14 passing, five rushing)Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein starts his second game ••• for the Gamecocks. "Notre Dame had good pursuit all night. They strung the option right out and wouldn't let us get the pitch. They did a great job taking away the outside." 
The second half was played under monsoon conditions. With South Caro­lina trailing by 23 points, most of the Gamecock fans sought shelter before the teams returned from the locker rooms. Notre Dame utilized a ball­control offense in the second half to preserve the win. 
South Carolina's only touchdown came after left-handed sophomore Jim Desmond replaced a battered Mitchell at quarterback. Mitchell hobbled to the sidelines with a hip pointer and twisted ankle. Desmond started the time-con­suming nine-play, 71-yard drive by scrambling 16 yards on his first play. On 
\.. .. 
second down from the Irish 10, Des­
~-~:-~ ............ mond hit Thomas Dendy with a nine­
••• and makes effective use of his dominant offensive line ••• yard slant-in pass to the Irish one-yard line. Notre Dame's string of eight quar­ters without surrendering a touchdown came to an end six seconds before time expired in the third quarter, as running 
, back Kent Hagood dove over from the one. The two-point conversion attempt failed, leaving the Irish ahead 23-6. 
The Gamecocks threatened again midway through the fourth quarter. Desmond directed South Carolina on a 52~yard march. But on fourth and goal, defensive tackle Mike Gann broke through and sacked Desmond for a nine-yard loss back to the Irish 18. 
Beuerlein then directed Notre Dame 82 yards in eight plays for the final score of the evening. Pinkett had runs of 18 and nine yards in the drive. And Smith rambled 12 yards and broke an­oher play for 37 yards to the Gamecock two. Pinkett scampered around left end on the next play for the touchdown . 
• • • to complete nine of 13 passes for 163 yards and two scores. Johnston's conversion closed out the 

6 6 There really is not a whole lof to say. I don't think we played that well, but they manhandled us on both sides of the line all dur­ing the game. You have 
to give them a lot of credit-they're a fine football team.'' 
-Joe Morrison 
scoring with 4:27 left as the Irish upped their lead to 30-6. 
"That drive broke their backs," said Beuerlein. "For us to go 80-85 yards and score in the pouring rain without even throwing a pass-that just took the air right out of them. Our offensive line's size wore them down." 
"There really is not a whole lot to say," explained the Gamecocks' first­year head coach,. Joe Morrison. "I don't think we played that well, but they manhandled us on both sides of the line all during the game. You have to give them a lot of credit-they're a fine football team." 
Notre Dame rolled to 362 yards total offense, while South Carolina man­aged 239 total yards, despite running 11 more plays from scrimmage than the Irish. 
"Notre Dame did a great job of exe­cuting," said Gamecock linebacker Mike Durrah, who notched 11 tackles. "They got first downs when we had them in third-and-long situations. They came in here ready to play." 
"We played intense," explained Pink­ett, who recorded his fourth 100-yard game of the season. "When we play intense, there aren't too many teams in the country that can stay with us. We executed really well -simple, basic plays, but real good execution." 
"I'm very proud of the way our boys played," summed up Faust. "Up to this point, it's probably our best game." 
The east upper deck of . Williams­Brice Stadium wasn't swaying this Sat­urday night as it had during South Carolina's upset victory over USC. In fact, the record crowd in attendance never really got a chance to voice its loyalty when Notre Dame came to town. 
Notre Dame's quick scores and later the rain dampened South Carolina's party plans. 
That's exactly the way Irish head coach Gerry Faust had planned it. 


South Carolina 0 0 6 0 6 
Notre Dame 13 10 0 7 30 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND SC ND-MikeJohnston49 FG 12:18 3 0 
Drive: 40 yards in four plays in 1:30 following South Carolina punt: Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 53 yards. 
NO-Chris Smith 26 pass from Steve Beuerlein6:43 10 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 68 yards in nine plays in 4:37 following South Carolina punt: Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Mark Bavaro for 21 yards. 
NO-Mike Johnston 27 FG 2:32 13 0 Drive: 18 yards in five plays in 2:22 following Chris Brown interception of South Carolina pass. 
Second Quarter 
ND-MikeJohnston41 FG 14:56 16 0 Drive: no yards in three plays in 1:19 following Joe Johnson recovery of South Carolina fumble. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 59 pass from Steve Beuerlein 11 :33 23 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 55 yards in two plays in 1:13 following South Carolina punt. 
Third Quarter 
SC-Kent Hagood I run :06 23 6 (Jim Desmond pass failed) Drive: 71 yards in nine plays in 3:21 following James Sumpter recovery of Allen Pinkett fumble; Big Play: Jim Desmond run for 16 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 2 run 4:27 30 6 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 82 yards in eight plays in 2:50 following loss of ball on downs by South Carolina; Big Play: Chris Smith run for 37 yards. 
A-74,500 
Team Statistics ND sc 
First Downs -17 16 Rushing 10 9 Passing 6 5 Penalty 1 2 Rushing Attempts 48 48 Yards Rushing 234 210 Tackles-Yards Lost Rushing 10-35 11-53 Net Yards Rushing 199 151 Net Yards Passing 163 82 Passes Attempted 14 25 Passes Completed 9 10 Had Intercepted 0 2 Total Offensive Plays 62 73 Total Net Yards 362 239 Average Gain Per Play 5.8 3.3 Return Yards 46 20 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 5-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 9-115 8-90 Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-31 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards 4-198 5-193 Average Per Punt 49.5 38.6 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3-15 2.20 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-18 0-0 Possession Time 29:41 30:19 Third-Down Conversions 6-14 6-17 
Individual Statistics South Carolina 
Rushing  Au.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Kent Hagood  14  79  0  79  1  19  
Tom Dendy  9  34  I  33  0  10  
Quinton Lewis  7  26  3  23  0  10  
Ira Hillary  I  10  0  10  0  10  
Jim Desmond  8  30  23  7  0  16  
Allen Mitchell  9  31  26  5  0  21  
Passing  Au. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Allen Mitchell  14  4  2  14  0  16  
Jim Desmond  II  6  0  68  0  21  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  LonK  
Tom Dendy  4  41  0  18  
Eric Doole  2  37  0  21  
Kent Hagood  I  6  0  6  
Ira Hillary  I  4  0  4  
Quinton Lewis  I  2  0  2  
Todd Berry  1  -8  ·o  -8  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Au.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  23  121  11  110  I  53  
Chris Smith  II  15  0  15  0  37  
Mark Brooks  5  24  0  24  0  7  
Blair Kiel  I  0  14  14  0  14  
H. Francisco  5  13  1  12  0  8  
Steve Beuerlein  3  I  9  8  0  I  
PasslnK  Au. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Steve Beuerlein  13  9  0  163  2  59  
Blair Kiel  I  0  0  0  0  0  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Chris Smith  3  45  I  26  
Allen Pinkett  2  61  I  59  
Joe Howard­ 2  20  0  11  
Mark Bavaro  I  21  0  21  
Mike Favorite  I  16  0  16  

Army 

Marching on the Meadowlands 

By CHUCK FREEBY 

You couldn't blame Gerry Faust if he wanted to play all his games on the road. 
After receiving rave reviews in Co­lumbia, S.C., and Boulder, Colo., Notre Dame took its traveling football show to Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands. For the third straight week, Irish fans were impressed with the performance they saw from their gridders, as Notre Dame shelled Army 42-0 before a crowd of 75,131 on a beautiful afternoon for football. 
The victory over the Cadets gave the Irish a nine-game winning streak in the series, which dates back to 1913. While there have been some classic thrillers in the series, this game was not destined to be one of them as the Irish erupted for 21 points in the first quarter and never looked back. 
Things went badly for the Cadets from the opening play and never got better. After being whistled for an il­legal procedure penalty on the first play from scrimmage, Army tailback Elton Akins burst through a massive hole up the middle. Unfortunately for Akins and Army, he was stripped of the ball after gaining 27 yards, and Notre Dame's Troy Wilson was right there to make the recovery. 
The Army defense came out fired up and held the Irish on their first pos­session. Nevertheless, turnovers con­tinued to plague the Cadets. On their next possession, Army quarterback Rich Laughlin felt the heavy rush of the Irish defensive line and threw the ball into the waiting arms of freshman line­backer Mike Kovaleski, who returned the ball five yards to the Army five. 
It didn't take long for the Irish of­fense to punch it in from there, as workhorse tailback Allen Pinkett car­ried the ball over from the one on the second play of the drive. Mike Johnston added the first of his six extra points and the Irish led 7-0. 
While the Cadets didn't turn the ball over on their next possession, they were unable to produce a first down. Kova­'leski and strong safety Joe Johnson combined to make the big play, stop­ping Army running back Travis Jack­son on a third-and-one play from the Cadet 29. 
The Irish took over following the punt on their own 32 and put together a drive that resembled a speeding car on the nearby Jersey Turnpike. The second play from scrimmage found Pinkett bursting through a wide-open hole for 27 yards. Before Army tacklers could catch their breath, Pinkett ran the same play for 18 yards to the Army 23. Two plays later, a scrambling Steve Beuerlein found tight end Mark Bavaro wide open over the middle for a 22­yard touchdown pass, giving the Irish a 14-0 lead. 
Notre Dame's next possession found similar results through different means. This time the Irish moved the ball upfield through the air, as Beuerlein found Bavaro in the left flat on the first play of the drive for a 21-yard gain. Later, the Irish freshman hooked up with Pinkett for a 13-yard pickup to the Army 12. One play later, Pinkett gave the Irish a 21-0 lead with 38 sec­onds left in the quarter when he broke through the grip of three Army tacklers and danced into the end zone for his second touchdown of the afternoo-n. 
"I smelled the goal line," said Pinkett after the game. "When any back smells the goal line, he gives that extra 10 percent." Pinkett would pick up 132 yards on 22 carries by game's end, matching his career high established two weeks previous against Colorado. It also was the fifth time Pinkett had carried for more than 100 yards in '83. 
For Pinkett and the rest of the Irish, that would be the last scent of the goal line Notre Dame would get in the first half. While the Irish defense continued to control the line of scrimmage against the smaller Army offense, Cadet coach Jim Young made some defensive changes which bottled up the Irish offense in their own territory through­out the second stanza. 
"They showed us a different defense that we weren't ready for," commented offensive coordinator Ron Hudson. 

6dThey showed us a dif­ferent d~fense that we weren't ready for. That caused us some prob­lems. Plus, they did a good job of disguising the coverages and Steve (Beuerlein) sometimes checked into 
them.99 
-Ron Hudson 
''They ran one defense we hadn't seen. It was an overload. But once we got our assignments down, we were okay. They were small and quick, and would often overpursue, so we came back with a couple 
counter plays.,, 
-L.arry Williams 

"That caused us some problems. Plus, they did a good job disguising the cov­erages and Steve sometimes checked into them." 
Irish offensive tackle Larry Williams concurred with Hudson's assessment. "They ran one defense we hadn't seen. It was an overload. But once we got our assignments down, we were okay. They were small and quick, and would often overpursue, so we came back with a couple counter plays." 
While the Irish were figuring out the defense of Army, Irish coach Gerry Faust let his team know that he was not pleased with their listless second-quarter performance. "After scoring 21 points, I think we let down a bit," noted Bavaro. "At halftime, all the coaches did was yell at us, told us we should be ashamed of ourselves. That made us go out and play harder." 
Freshman quarterback Steve Beuer­lein, starting in his third game of the season, believed the following week's encounter with USC may have been on the minds of a few Irish players. "I think it was obvious," stated Beuerlein. "We had 21 points, and we really should have only had 14. We were a little lackadaisical. Knowing you have USC next week can hold you back a bit." 
Neither thoughts of the Trojans nor 
those of the Army defense could stop 
the Irish on their first drive of the sec-


A total of 440 yards of total offense, including a career-best 132 rushing yards plus three touchdowns for All-American Alien Pinkett, made it a productive afternoon in New York for Steve Beuerlein and the Irish offense. 
ond half. Following a dazzling 27-yard punt return by Joe Howard, the Irish offense took control at the Cadet 44. On a third-and-six play, Beuerlein hit fuJI­back Mark Brooks with a screen pass for 11 yards. Then, it was time for Allen Pinkett to take over, taking a pitchout off right tackle on the next play for 18 yards and a first down, be­fore waltzing through a gaping hole for an 11-yard touchdown run on the next play. The Irish were in command of a 28-0 advantage following Johnston's PAT kick. 
Once again, the Irish defense shut down the Army attack, forcing the Cadets to punt after only three plays. The Irish took their time on the next scoring drive, eating up more than four minutes off the cJock. Beuerlein started the drive with a 16-yard pass over the middle to sure-handed Mike Favorite. Following a four-yard gain by Beuer­
''Let's give Notre Dame credit for being a good football team today. Sometimes, I think we're a better team than some people give us credit for. There's no question right now we've got some momentum going.,, 
-Gerry Faust 
lein, Pinkett carried the baJI four con­secutive times, picking up two first downs and setting up a second-and­goal situation from the Army six. With the Cadet defense looking for Pinkett one more time, Beuerlein turned and handed off to Brooks, who bullied his way up the middle for the score. John­ston's kick was perfect, and the Irish were coasting with a 35-0 margin. 
That was all for the starters in this one, as Gerry Faust played 65 of the 69 players who dressed on the trip. Army's lone scoring opportunity of the afternoon came when Cadet noseguard Mike Staver pounced on a Byron Abra­ham fumble at the Irish 28. Four plays later, however, the Irish defense showed its mettle when linebacker Tony Fur­janie stopped Army receiver Travis J acksori three yards short of the sticks on a fourth-and-15 try. 
From there Blair Kiel took over at quarterback and put on the most im­pressive march of the afternoon -with the possible exception of when the men of West Point came marching into the stadium. The Irish second-team offense moved the ball by land and by air, starting with a third-down shuffle pass to Abraham on the right side for 17 yards to end the third quarter. On the third play of the final period, Kiel rolled to his right and found Favorite in the flat for 15 yards and a first down. 



Then, the'Irish shifted to the ground. Third-string fullback Dave Machtolf ran over people up the middle for 13 yards, before Abraham followed his linemen on the right side for an 11­yard pickup on the power sweep. Fac­ing a first-and-goal from the Cadet three, Kiel turned from center and found no one there for the handoff. So he made the best of it, burying his helmet into the chest of Army's Kermit McKelvy and charging into the end zone for the final score. 
After -the game, Kiel joked, "Maybe I ought to move to fullback," consider­ing his running exploits on the final touchdown. But the Irish attack seemed to have enough depth everywhere, as seven running backs and four quarter­backs saw action for Notre Dame dur­ing the rout. 
Faust and the Irish players brimmed with confidence following the game. "Let's give Notre Dame credit for being a good football team today," said Faust. "Sometimes, I think we're a better team than some people give us credit for. There's no question right now we've got some momentum going. We thought we were playing pretty well coming off th~ Colorado game, and we saw a lot more progress today. One thing I've learned is that you don't look ahead except to your very next oppo­nent." ­
Faust also had plenty of praise for Beuerlein. "He's made a difference," commented Faust. "He's stepped in and shown a lot of ability and poise." While Beuerlein's statistics were not especially impressive (six for 11, 92 yards and one TD), he did manage to pick up his third consecutive win in as many starts. 
Pinkett echoed the sentiments of his coach. "I think we've become a more aggressive and a more intense team," noted Pinkett. "But the thing that has happened to us in the last few weeks is we've learned how to relax and enjoy the game of football." 
And for the Irish and their fans, the Giants Stadium visit was just that­a relaxing, enjoyable day of football not far from the sunny banks of the Hudson River. 
Notre Dame 21 0 14 42 
Army 0 0 0 0 0 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time NO AR NO-Allen Pinkett I run 10:16 7 0 
(Mike Johnston kick) Drive: Five yards in two plays in :34 following Mike Kovaleski interception of Navy pass. 
NO-Mark Bavaro 22 pass from Steve Beuerlein S:S9 14 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 68 yards in six plays in 2:29 following Army punt. 
NO-Allen Pinkett II run :38 21 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 53 yards in seven plays in 3:58 following Army punt. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett II run 10:07 28 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: Four yards in five plays in I:SS following Army punt. 
NO-Mark Brooks 6 run 3:42 35 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 49 yards in 10 plays in 4:23 following Army punt. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Blair Kiel3 run 10:50 42 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 79 yards in 13 plays in 4:27 following loss of ball on downs by Army. 
A-75,131 
Team Statistics NO AR 

First Downs 25 7 Rushing 17 2 Passing 8 4 Penalty 0 I Rushing Attempts 60 34 Yards Rushing 293 126 Yards Lost Rushing 6-21 S-31 Net Yards Rushing 274 95 Net Yards Passing 166 64 Passes Attempted 20 19 Passes Completed 12 7 Had Intercepted 0 2 Total Offensive Plays 80 53 Total Net Yards 440 159 Average Gain Per Play S.S4 3.0 Return Yards Il9 2 Fumbles: Number-Lost 4-1 2-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 6-SO S·2S Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-26 ()..() NumberofPunts-Yards 4-152 10-448 Average Per Punt 38.0 44.8 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 9-93 1-2 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards ()..() 3-62 Possession Time 37:14 22:46 Third-Down Conversions Il-17 2-14 
Individual Statistics 

Army  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TO  Long  
Elton Akins  10  52  I  Sl  0  27  
C. Bazemore  I  32  0  32  0  32  
Rich Laughlin  3  3  2S  22  0  3  
Travis Jackson  7  13  2  II  0  s  
Kevin McKelvy  6  IS  0  IS  0  6  
Art Zarone  2  8  0  8  0  6  
Rob Healy  2  I  3  2  0  I  
Dave Pratt  3  2  0  2  0  I  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TO  Long  
Rich Laughlin  s  2  I  8  0  6  
Rob Healy  2  0  0  0  0  0  
Bill Turner  9  4  0  44  0  20  
Dave Grasch  3  I  I  12  0  12  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TO  Long  
Rob Dickerson  2  26  0  20  
Travis Jackson  2  18  0  12  
Scott Wuestner  I  12  0  12  
J. Hollingsworth  I  6  0  6  
Kevin McKelvy  I  2  0  2  
Notn Dame  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  22  139  7  132  3  27  
Dave Machtolf  8  47  0  47  0  13  
Byron Abraham  s  21  0  21  0  11  
Joe Howard  I  21  0  21  0  21  
Mark Brooks  s  20  0  20  I  8  
Lester Flemons  9  26  7  19  0  17  
H. Francisco  3  9  I  8  0  s  
Blair Kiel  3  7  0  7  I  3  
Steve Beuerlein  3  4  6  2  0  4  
Kevin Smith  I  I  0  I  0  I  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Steve Beverlein  II  6  0  92  I  22  
Blair Kiel  7  4  0  47  0  17  
Tom Cushing  I  I  0  12  0  12  
Kevin Smith  I  I  0  IS  0  IS  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Mark Bavaro  2  43  I  22  
Mike Favorite  2  31  0  16  
Allen Pinkett  2  22  0  13  
H. Francisco  2  IS  0  9  
Byron Abraham  I  17  0  17  
Alonzo Jefferson  I  IS  0  IS  
Dave Machtolf  I  12  0  12  
Mark Brooks  I  II  0  11  

usc 



Something Borrowed, Something Green 

By JOHN LEWANDOWSKI Bitter disappointments are hard to forget. 
A five-year series of close calls against USC-dominated by almosts and what-ifs and a few phantom touch­downs and controversial officials' calls -had left more than its share of frus­tration in the Notre Dame camp. Par­ticularly vivid in the minds of the Irish was the memory of Michael Harper's controversial one-yard scoring dive that beat Notre Dame 17-13 in 1982. 
This did not prove to be one of the stronger Trojan teams to meet the Irish. USC came in at 2-3-1 and would finish 4-6-1 for. its first losing season since 1961, John McKay's second sea­son on campus: No· matter. Irish head coach Gerry Faust planned to use every 
trick in his bag. 
Early in the week, Faust had a Xeroxed copy of a newspaper photo showing Harper's game-winning leap into the end zone without the football taped to each player's locker. The team received a recorded pep talk from the late actor Pat O'Brien, who imitated Knute Rockne's "Gipper" speech. And the squad attended the Friday night . pep rally billed as "Fumble Revenge." 
But Faust saved the best for Satur­

day afternoon. Faust borrowed the same 
psychological edge former Irish head 
coach Dan Devine employed against 
USC in 1977. For the first time during 
Faust's reign at Notre Dame, the 
Fighting Irish wore kelly green jerseys en route to a convincing 27-6 victory over the Trojans. In fact, the Irish hadn't defeated USC since Devine's un­veiling of the green on October 22, 1977, when Notre Dame blasted the Trojans 49-19 on its way to a national championship: 
The script was the same as in 1977. Notre Dame ran through its pregame warmup drills in its royal blue and gold shirts. But when the Fighting Irish made their . entrance on to the field following the National Anthem, the squad raced out of the north tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium and through the human tunnel ·formed by the student body wearing kelly green. ~ 
"I ordered the jerseys about six months ago," explained Faust after the 
The Irish seized the momentum early on a 61-yard pass play that went from pint-sized tailback Allen Pinkett -throwing his first career pass-to hard-charging tight end Mark Bavaro, who outruns Trojan defender Tony Brewer. 
contest. "I didn't even tell my wife or the assistant coaches about it. The only reason I did it was because the game was on the exact same date as the last time Notre Dame wore green and beat USC. The players are going to keep these jerseys as a memento of the game. We'll be back to blue next week. 
"They're the ugliest-looking jerseys in the world," admitted the third-year Irish coach, "but we wanted to shock the fans and get them going." 
The jerseys may have inspired the Irish, but it was the running and passing of sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett and a swarming Notre Dame defense that keyed the victory. 
"One word describes how the players felt when they saw the green jerseys­elation," said Pinkett, who rushed for three touchdowns. "We had convinced ourselves that we could beat USC in blue or we could beat USC in a T-shirt, but the green jerseys were the little extra ingredient we needed." 
First-year Trojan head coach Ted Tollner agreed that the green jerseys weren't the difference in the game. "Green jerseys don't win football games," explained Tollner. "We were ready to play and up for the challenge. But the game is played on the field. They made the big plays when they had to, and we couldn't make the plays. I. don't believe in those other advantages." 
USC seemed undaunted by Notre Dame's wearing of the green. The Tro­jans took the opening kickoff and promptly drove to the Irish 32-yard line. Sophomore tailback Fred Crutcher was the workhorse during the series, picking up 31 yards on seven carries. But on a second-down-and-six call, Crutcher took a pitch and was hit by Mike Griffin, creating a fumble which was recovered by Mike Golic at the Irish 27. 
Although Notre Dame failed to capi­talize on the turnover as Mike John­ston's 49-yard field goal attempt fell short, the Irish dominated both lines of scrimmage for the remainder of the contest. 
Following a USC punt to the Irish 20-yard line, Faust showed the Trojans that he also had a few gimmicks in the playbook. On the first play from scrim­mage, Pinkett took a delayed handoff from quarterback Steve Beuerlein and lofted a 20-yard pass to tight end Mark Bavaro, who gathered in the halfback throw in :midstride and rambled to the USC 21-yard line. The option pass covered 59 yards. 
"That was the first pass I'd ever com­pleted," confessed Pinkett. "I tried it three times in practice last week. The first time I overthrew but it was a pretty spiral. The next two were wounded ducks. I didn't know if the coaches had confidence in me. But More than anything, the Irish won this one in the trenches. They did it with blocking and tackling -in particular, the blocking of Mike Perrino (76), Neil Maune (79), Mike Kelley (63), Tim Scannell (54) and Larry Williams (75). 



when the coaches called the play, I wasn't nervous." 
"It was the same play that Arizona State used against us," said Toliner. "We had just reminded our players to 
. watch for it. It was the same man (safety Tony Brewer). He was trying to contain the pitch and let the tight end run right by him." On first down from the USC 21, Pinkett took a handoff up the middle for nine yards. Fullback Chris Smith struggled for one yard and a first down on the next play. Then Pinkett broke two tackles and slanted to the right through a huge hole for 11 yards and his first touchdown of the afternoon. Johnston's conversion gave the Irish a 7-0 lead with 2:49 left in the first quarter. Notre Dame's offensive line con­trolled the line of scrimmage the rest of the game. Pinkett raced for 122 yards on. 21 carries on the rain-slick­encd turf. The Sterling, Va., native notched his fourth straight 1 00-yard game and his sixth 100-yard effort of the season. Pinkett tied Jim Stone's 1980 school record for consecutive games rushing over the 1 00-yard pia­teau set in 1980. 
32 
"I'm not trying to win any humani­tarian award, but let's give credit where credit is due," said Pinkett. "I've had a lost of success rushing. this year be­cause of the offensive line. The line did a great job. They just blew USC off the line. When our offensive line is in the mood to hit, it makes my job a hcckuva lot easier. They opened the holes today, and all I saw was daylight. When they open holes like that, my eyes get as big as golf balls." 
"I thought Allen Pinkett was aver-­age today," joked Faust. 
"I thought Pinkett had a tremendous game," praised Tollner, who saw his Trojans slip to 2-4-1 on the season, the worst seven-game record for Southern Cal since 1958. "He earned his yards. We hit him hard. I thought we played well against the run. Pinkett's a quality back." · 
Aided by two USC penalties, Notre Dame put together a time-consuming 12-play scoring march midway through the second quarter. Pinkett accounted for 33 yards during the 55-yard scoring drive which chewed up 5:48 of the clock. Pinkett rushed for 27 yards and hauled in a six-yard third-down pass from Beuerlein to keep the drive alive at the USC 16. The 5-9, 184-pound sophomore tailback scored his second touchdown after back-to-hack runs of seven and nine yards. Johnston's extra point gave the Irish a 14-0 lead with 
6:12 remaining in the half. 
Linebacker Rick Naylor set up Notre Dame's final score of the first half. Naylor intercepted a Scan Salisbury pass and returned it 20 yards to the Trojan 32-yard line. Johnston tacked on a 30-yard field goal with 29 seconds left before halftime to increase the Irish advantage to 17-0. 
"The coaches told us if we outhit them and played the coverages the way we were supposed to, there was no way they could beat us," said Naylor. "Now, I know how it feels to beat USC. It's great." 
Tollner opted to bench Salisbury in the second half and go with Iefthander Tim Green in the third quarter. USC had managed just six first downs and 94 yards total offense in the first 30 minutes of action. Although Green helped the Trojans avert a shutout, he suffered a pair of interceptions, includ­ing Naylor's second of the game that set the stage for Pinkett's third scoring jaunt. 
Naylor's interception put the Irish offense in business at the USC 42-yard line. Pinkett exploded for nine yards over left tackle. Mark Brooks carried the next two plays for eight and nine yards. On a first-down play from the 16, Pinkett burst straight ahead for five yards. Then Pinkett raced through a gaping hole up the middle for 11 yards and a touchdown with 5:45 left in the third quarter. Johnston's 44th consecu­tive conversion increased the Notre Dame lead to 24-0. 
Late in the third quarter, USC suc­ceeded in keeping its NCAA record for not being shut out intact by scoring in its 184th straight game. A pass inter­ference call against Pat Ballage gave the Trojans a first and goal at the Irish three-yard line. Notre Dame yielded its first touchdown in seven periods when Harper slammed into the end zone from the one. That touchdown was only the second the Irish had surrendered in the last 16 quarters. A two-point conversion attempt failed and the Trojans trailed 24-6. 
Notre Dame closed out the scoring with two seconds remaining in the third quarter. Johnston booted a 39-yard field goal as the Irish widened their lead to 27-6. Pinkett chalked up 25 more yards on the drive and Beuerlein completed a 12-yard pass to Joe Howard during the 41-yard scoring drive. 
Beuerlein guided the Irish to their fourth straight victory. The Fullerton, Calif., native, who completed five of 16 passes for 44 yards, suffered his first interception of the season and the first in 76 attempts in the third quarter. 
The 5-2 Irish outgained the Trojans 316 to 223 in total yards. Notre Dame's powerful ground game accounted for 213 of those yards. 
"Notre Dame has a very good of­fensive line and they played hard to­day," said Trojan linebacker Jeff Brown, who recorded a game-high 16 tackles. "Their line is very compli­mentary for the running of Pinkett. They blow off the line and get in your face." 
"We played a fine game against a fine football team," said Faust. "I think our team capitalized well on their turn­overs, and our defense stopped them when we made mistakes. 
"Coach Tollner is trying to put his team together," analyzed Faust. "He's going through the same things I did my first year." 
"People had been asking us all week if we were going to, wear the green jerseys, but we told them that was done before and we were not going to do that," said Golic. "We looked at each other and started ripping off our jerseys. We started yelling. I now know what my brother (Bob, a middle linebacker on that 1977 Irish team) was talking about." 
Faust borrowed a page out of De­vine's playbook and got the same result. 
Original? No. Effective? Ask USC. 


usc 0 0 6 0 6 
Notre Dame 10 10 0 27 

Scoring Summary Fll'3t Quarter Time ND SC NO-Allen Pinkett II run 2:49 7 0 
(Milce Johnston Icicle) Drive: 80 yards in four plays in 1:31 following USC punt; Big Play: Allen Pinkett pass to Marie Bavaro for S9 yards. 

S«ond Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 9 run 6:12 14 0 (Milce Johnston Icicle) Drive: SS yards in 12 plays in 5:48 following USC punt; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for II yards. 
ND-Milce Johnston 30 FG :29 17 0 Drive: 19 yards in five plays in 1:47 following Riclc Naylor interception of USC pass; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for eight yards. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett II run S:4S 24 0 (Milce Johnston Icicle) Drive: 42 yards in five plays in 1:45 following Riclc Naylor interception of USC pass; Big Plays: Allen Pinkett run for nine yards, Marie Brooks run for nine yards. · 
SC-Michael Harper I run 3:27 24 (Fred Crutcher run failed) Drive: 79 yards in six plays in 2: 18 following Notre Dame lciclcoff; Big Plays: Tim Green pass to Timmie Ware for 16 yards, 36-yard pass interference penalty against Notre Dame. 
ND-MilceJohnston 39 FG :02 27 6 Drive: 41 yards in seven plays in 3:25 following USC lciclcoff; Big Plays: Allen Pinkett run for 10 yards, Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 12 yards. 
A-S9,07S(c) 
Team Statistics sc ND 

First Downs IS 20 Rushing 4 13 Passing 8 4 Penalty 3 3 Rushing Attempts 38 48 Yards Rushing 138 217 Yards Lost Rushing 29 4 Net Yards Rushing 109 213 Net Yards Passing 114 103 Passes Attempted 2S 17 Passes Completed 12 6 Had Intercepted 3 I Total Offensive Plays 63 6S Total Net Yards 223 316 Average Gain Per Play 3.S 4.9 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 1-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 9-81 7-111 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-0 3-30 Number of Punts-Yards 4-256 S-183 Average Per Punt 36.5 36.6 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3-20 4-33 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards S-100 2-59 Third-Down Conversions S-14 7-IS 
Individual Statistics 

usc  
RushlnK Michael Harper Fred Crutcher  AU. 16 10  Gain Lost 64 0 S3 0  Net 64 53  TD I 0  Long 11 9  
Todd Spencer Kennedy Pola Tim Green  4 3 4  14 2 s  0 0 16  14 2 -11  0 0 0  6 2 4  
Sean Salisbury  I  0  13  -13  0  -13  
Passing Sean Salisbury Tim Green  Att. Comp. 10 s IS 7  Int. I 2  Yards 34 80  TD 0 0  LonK 18 20  
Pass Receiving Timmie Ware  No. 3  Yards 47  TD 0  LonK 20  
Hanlc Norman  2  29  0  18  
Fred Cornwell  2  IS  0  9  
John Kamana  2  3  0  4  
Joe Cormier  I  7  0  7  
Marie Boyer Todd Steele  I I  7 6  0 0  7 6  
Notre Dame  
RushlnK  Au.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  LonK  
Allen Pinkett  21  126  4  122  3  20  
Marie Brooks  7  32  0  32  0  9  
Chris Smith  8  24  0  24  0  9  
Dave Machtolf  2  18  0  18  0  11  
H. Francisco  3  7  0  7  0  s  
Greg Bell Steve Beuerlein  4 I  6 2  0 0  6 2  0 0  3 2  
Byron Abraham Milt Jackson  I I  I I  0 0  I I  0 0  I I  
Passing Steve Beuerlein  Att. Comp. 16 s  Int. I  Yards 44  TD 0  LonK 17  
Allen Pinkett  I  I  0  S9  0  S9  
Pass RecelvlnK  No.  Yards  TD  LOOK  
Marie Bavaro  3  81  0  S9  
Allen Pinkett  2  10  0  6  
Joe Howard  I  12  0  12  

Navy 

A Napoleonic Effort 

By KAREN CROAKE Not only did Navy lose the war, the Midshipmen also lost the battle. 
Although always a gritty, scrappy op­ponent, the Naval Academy had not beaten a Notre Dame squad since 1963 when Roger Staubach, on his way to claiming the Reisman Trophy, led the Middies to a 35-14 victory on the Irish home turf. 
Since second-year coach Gary.Tran-. quill and his charges had drawn the short straw five out of seven tries this season, few observers thought Navy could seriously challenge the streaking Irish, winners of their last four con­tests, this time. 
So the 57th meeting in the nation's oldest continuous intersectional rivalry was billed aS a horse race between Navy's Napoleon McCallum, the na­tion's leading rusher, and Notre Dame's flashy fireplug, Allen Pinkett. 
"Playing against a runner the caliber of McCallum will be a great challenge for us,, predicted Irish coach Gerry Faust. "He has good speed and excel­lent balance. He's a glider. When you 
watch him  on  film,  you don't  realize  
how fast he's going. He's  one  of -the  
better runners in the country.  

"But we think we have a good one, too., 
McCallum, a 6-2, 206-pound junior, topped the ·NCAA rushing charts by averaging 159.7 yards per game. He also ranked as the nation's number-one all-purpose runner with a 233.7-yard average. He boasted an impressive sea­son total of 1,118 yards and had gained over 100 yards in his last six outings. 
But Pinkett's figures didn't Jag far behind. The 5-9 (on his tiptoes) sopho­more had crossed the century mark six times in seven games, gained 777 yards for a 111.0 yards-per-game average and scored 10 touchdowns. Pinkett was ninth on the NCAA computer sheets. 
So who won? 

Well, Notre Dame netted the daily double. The Irish downed Navy, 28-12, while Pinkett out-gained McCallum, 129 yards to 92. But neither victory was easy. 
"I thought I was mature enough to handle the one-on-one confrontation with Napoleon,, said Pinkett, who con­fessed to pregame jitters. "But I was so tight in the first half and trying to run so hard that I was running into my blockers. They were opening holes, but I wasn't reading them well. I wasn't playing an Allen Pinkett game -sitting back and waiting for things to happen." 
But Pinkett, although not up to snuff by his own and his coach's standards, still set a Notre Dame record by eclipsing the 100-yard barrier for the fifth straight time and tied another mark for surpassing 100 yards rushing in his seventh game of the season. He also scored the last two Irish touchdowns (on six-and three-yard runs) to seal Notre Dame's fifth consecutive victory and give· Faust his longest winning skein at the college level. 
"It wasn't one of Allen's better days," said Faust, who chided his All-America candidate a bit at halftime. "He did too much dancing. The line wasn't as crisp as it had been, they weren't opening the holes. You must give the Navy defense a lot of credit. We always seem to have trouble running against Navy. They are a good football team, and while we weren't as sharp as we had been, they must get some of the credit for taking that sharpness away." 
By contrast, McCallum, who was un­characteristically used in motion against the Irish, was limited to 92 yards on 24 carries. He also caught six passes for 38 yards and scored Navy's only touch­down on a three-yard push in the third quarter. Notre Dame's defense, which ranked fifth nationally before the game, ruined McCallum's hopes for the Navy record of most consecutive games with over 100 yards rushing. His string stopped at six; Cleveland Cooper held the record with seven. 
"I couldn't go anywhere with their defensive backs and linebackers around," explained McCallum, who turned down a scholarship offer from Faust because he hopes to be an astronaut. "They have some big kids." 
But McCallum still impressed those on the :Notre Dame sidelines with his moves. 
"He's really good," said Irish de­fensive tackle Eric Dorsey, who made five stops against the Midshipmen and accounted for a pair of quarterback sacks. "I watched him get hit and knocked on all fours, but somehow he'd keep his balance and keep going for­ward. He's amazing. Navy has built their whole offense around him. We had a hard time adjusting to their blocking schemes." 
"He's proven himself worthy of being the nation's number-one rusher," praised Faust. "He's what we term a north­south runner. He goes straight ahead­for the goal line, not the sideline. He's a very tale~ted athlete." 
"I wasn't exactly taking notes, but I did watch him carefully," admitted Pinkett. "He's impressive to say the least." 
Although the Pinkett-McCallum 

matchup stole most of the headlines, 
their duel was just an exciting sideshow 
for the main stage event. 
Although Halloween officially was two days away, Notre Dame left the Midshipmen searching for the Great Pumpkin with a pair of trick plays in the first quarter. Both stunts led to touchdowns and put the Irish out front 14-0. 



On Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage, split end Joe Howard fol­lowed the block of Mike Kelley on a rarely-used diagram. Eight plays later freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein tossed a five-yard pass to flanker Milt Jackson, who made a juggler's catch just inside the west sideline of the end zone for the first touchdown reception of his career. 
Before Navy could manage its initial first down, Jackson had added touch­down number two to the scoring sum­mary. 
Beuerlein, starting his fifth straight game, lateralled to Howard, who stopped dead in his tracks and flung the ball to Jackson for a 29-yard touchdown pass. 
"Joe and I worked on that play all week in practice and never completed it," admitted Jackson. "Joe would either throw it out of bounds or I would run too fast, or our defensive backs would read it. When the play was called in the huddle, I told Joe, 'Let's get it this time.' I figured the defenders would latch on and run up. As soon as they did, I went behind them." 
"I just wanted to lay it out there," 
revealed Howard. "I didn't want to 
muscle it." 
Faust, who confessed to calling the 
play, wasn't trying to impress the 
59,075 home fans with his offense. He 
just wanted to score points. 
"Navy had the ability to beat us, so 
we wanted to pull out all the stops 
early," he said. "We were concerned 
with the game as coaches all week. The 
trick plays are counter plays to our 
basic offense. We thought they would 
work well against Navy's fast-flow de­
fense. Th~y worked well for us today." 
But after the two quick air strikes, 
Navy's defense toughened up and kept 
the Irish at bay until the third quarter. 
Mark Colby's punts, including a boom­
ing 72-yarder, consistently put the Irish 
in poor field position. 
"I thought our defense played well 
except for the big plays," said a dis­
appointed Gary Tranquill, who had 
hoped for better after his team came 
close to upsetting Pitt, 21-14, the week­
before. "I'm tired of sounding positive 
when we Jose, but I'm proud of our 
team. I don't feel we gave them a 
quarter. We've been fooled all year. 
Sometimes we get a little too aggressive 
and then get burned." 
Two field goals by Steve Young -a 
36-yarder in the second period and a 
48-yard boot in the third-put Navy 
back into the chase at 14-6. 



"We tried many formations out there, and nothing could click consistently," said Tranquill. "We just don't have a good enough passing game to comple­ment McCallum's running." 
Pinkett's six-yard scoring gallop over the middle and Mike Johnston's third extra point ·with five minutes left in the third quarter put the Irish back up, 21-6. The touchdown culminated the workmanlike 77 -yard drive. 
Navy made one last gasp at a come­back after Pinkett fumbled on the Irish 15-yard line. Middie linebacker Andy Ponseigo recovered the football, and four plays later McCallum bolted over from the three for Navy's only touch­down as time expired in the third quar­ter. It was just the third six-pointer sur­rendered by the Irish defense in 22 quarters. A two-point conversion try, which would have made it 21-14, failed after Navy was flagged for delay of game. 
"This is the best Navy team I've seen," remarked Faust. "They could have given up when we jumped out to the early lead, but they kept coming back. They never quit." 
Pinkett apologized for his fumble with 37 yards rushing, including a 22­yard scramble that put him over the 100-yard mark, on Notre Dame's final scoring drive in the fourth quarter. He tallied his second touchdown of the afternoon on a three-yard run. 
"The offensive line really pulled me through," admitted Pinkett. "It was a big thing for them that I gain more yards than Napoleon. They kept telling me that, especially on Friday. I guess the offensive line and the fullbacks wanted it a little more than I did. They take a lot of pride in the fact that I gained more yards than the number-one runner in the country." 
Despite Pinkett's offensive output, the Notre Dame defense received a few rave reviews from Tranquill and Faust. 
"They're big, God, they're big," said Tranquill of the troops that held his offense to just 228 yards (112 rushing, 116 passing). "Notre Dame has real beauties in the secondary. They really got to us." 
The defense, led by freshman line­backer Mike Kovaleski and defensive end Mike Golic, who each had 12 tackles, registered seven sacks of quar­terback Rick Williamson. Golic, Dorsey and Jon Autry had two apiece, while Kovaleski was credited with one. 
"Holding them in the fourth period after they had moved the ball well in the third permitted us to hang on and win," said Faust. "It wasn't a beautiful game as far as execution is concerned, but then there was a lot of great hitting out there." 
Even though Notre Dame upped its advantage in the series to 47-9-1, Tran­quill emphasized the importance of the rivalry. 
"This is the mecca of college foot­ball," he said. "It's a treat to play Notre Dame. I like playing_ them. It's a good game for us. Maybe some year we'll sneak up on them when they don't expect it." 
But for now, the Midshipmen will have to settle for a moral, if not tangi­ble, victory. That one may have to wait awhile. 

Navy 0 9 0 12 
Notre Dame 14 0 7 7 28 

Scoring Summary Ftnt Quarter Time ND NA NO-Milt Jackson S pass 
from Steve Beuerlein 9:11 7 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 67 yards in nine plays in 3:56 following Navy punt: Big Play: Joe Howard run for 30 yards. 

NO-Milt Jackson 29 pass from Joe Howard 6:31 14 0 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 49 yards in three plays in 1:13 following Navy punt; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 17 yards. 
Second Quarter 
NA-Steve Young 36 FG 14:12 14 3 Drive: 34 yards in eight plays in 2:30 following Notre Dame punt; Big Play: Rick Williamson pass to Nap Mc­Callum for 14 yards. 
Third Quarter 
NA-Steve Young 48 FG 9:38 14 6 Drive: 29 yards in eight plays in 3:19 following Notre Dame punt. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 6 run 4:48 21 6 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 77 yards in II plays in 4:50 following Navy kickoff; Big Play: Alvin Miller run for 19 yards, Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 18 yards. 
NA-Nap McCallum 3 run :00 21 12 (Rick Williamson pass failed) Drive: IS yards in four plays in 1:18 following Andy Ponseigo recovery of Notre Dame fumble; Big Play: Rick Williamson pass to Mark Stevens for 12 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 3 run 2:56 28 12 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 52 yards in seven plays in 2:42 following Navy punt: Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 22 yards. 
A-S9,07S(c) 
Team Statistics NA ND 

First Downs IS 20 Rushing 7 12 Passing 8 8 Penalty 0 0 Rushing Attempts 42 53 Yards Rushing 168 285 Yards Lost Rushing 56 18 Net Yards Rushing 112 267 Net Yards Passing 116 132 Passes Attempted 30 19 Passes Completed IS 10 Had Intercepted I I Total Offensive Plays 72 72 Total Net Yards 228 399 Average Gain Per Play 3.2 s.s Fumbles: Number-Lost ().() 2-2 Penalties: Number-Yards 4-30 645 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-(-4} 1-22 Number of Punts-Yards 8-362 S-204 Average Per Punt 45.2 40.8 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-8 4-22 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 4-77 4-8S Third-Down Conversions 6-19 11-17 
Individual Statistics 

Navy  
Rushing  Att.  Galn.Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Nap McCallum  24  96  4  92  I  13  
Bryan Caraveo  10  54  0  S4  0  22  
Rick Williamson  8  18  S2  -34  0  18  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Rick Williamson  28  14  I  112  0  16  
Sean Cannon  2  I  0  4  0  4  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Nap McCallum  6  38  0  14  
Mark Stevens  4  42  0  12  
Bill Cebak  2  21  0  16  
Chris Weiler  2  II  0  8  
Ron McDonald  1  4  0  4  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  29  127  6  121  2  22  
Chris Smith  II  6S  0  65  0  14  
Joe Howard  I  30  0  30  0  30  
H. Francisco  s  24  0  24  0  8  
Alvin Miller  I  19  0  19  0  19  
Mark Brooks  2  7  0  7  0  6  
Steve Beuerlein  4  13  10  1  0  9  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Steve Beuerlein  18  9  1  103  1  21  
Joe Howard  1  I  0  29  1  29  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Joe Howard  3  56  0  21  
Milt Jackson  3  46  2  29  
Allen Pinkett  3  27  0  13  
Mark Brooks  1  3  0  3  


Pittsburgh 

A Party for the Panthers 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
For five weeks, the Notre Dame foot­ball team gradually had been regaining respect around the nation. After a 20-0 loss to ·Miami in September-which dropped the team to 1-2 record and out of the nation's top 20-the fight was back in the Irish as they won five straight games in October and moved up to the 18th rung in the Associated Press poll. 
In that span the defense was simply tremendous as it gave up only 27 points in those five games and moved up to a number-three ranking in the nation in total defense. On the offensive side of things, the line was consistently oblit­erating the opposition as it helped tail­back Allen Pinkett to a number-six ranking in the nation among all rushers. 
Meanwhile, freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein seemed to add a fresh, new blood type of atmosphere to a team that admittedly was too tight in its two early-season losses. 
But just how good were the Irish? Critics liked to point out that not one of the six Notre Dame victories came against a team with a winning record. What's more, the critics pointed out that the Irish had relied ever so much on Pinkett's great skills to carry them as Beuerlein got his feet wet. 
With a strong and revenge-minded Pittsburgh team entering Notre Dame Stadium, the question about how good Notre Dame was and how far it had come since the Miami defeat would soon be answered for the capacity crowd of 59,075 in the stadium as well as a nearly-national audience that would be watching on CBS. Particularly anx­ious to see an improvement in the Irish were representatives from the Cotton, Fiesta and Sugar bowls who were hop­ing to showcase the Irish on January 2 
if they  could  continue  their  winning  
ways.  
Although  Pittsburgh  had  lost  13  

starters from the outfit that was ranked number one most of 1982-before Notre DamQ knocked it off that perch in November-the Panthers still had another outstanding load of talent on their 6-2 team. Besides an experienced and tremendously aggressive defense, Foge Fazio's troops had a well-balanced offensive attack led by peerless 6-5, 290­pound junior tackle Bill Fralic. 
The Irish had their chances· to defeat the Panthers, but a quick, early lead by Pitt, costly turnovers by Notre Dame 



Sophomore quarterback Steve Beuerlein looks for an opening against the Panther defensive troops-with able-bodied assistance from Chris Smith (32), Tim Scannell (54) and Larry Williams (75). The Irish outgained Pitt 352-287 but couldn't do 
it on the scoreboard. 
and a strong running attack led by Pitt's powerful offensive line guided the Pan­thers to a 21-16 victory over the Irish. 
In .Notre Dame's six victories this year, the Irish had quickly jolted oppo­nents by outscoring them 82-3 in the first quarter. The previous week a quick 14-0 lead over Navy was something from which the Midshipmen simply never recovered. This week, the shoe was on the other foot as Notre Dame was jolted with a quick 14-0 deficit. 
After an exchange of punts on its first series, Pitt struck with the game's first touchdown on a 44-yard John Congemi-to-Bill -Wallace pass. Wallace hauled in the pass at the Notre Dame eight-yard line after Notre Dame cor­nerback Patt Ballage lost his footing on the play. 
"We both turned for the ball and I thought he nudged me," said Ballage. "I lost my footing, but I don't think I would have if he hadn't nudged me. I guess the referee felt he was going for the ball." 
On the first play after the kickoff, Pinkett made one of his very few mis­takes of the year when he fumbled a pitchout that Panther cornerback Troy 
6'I don't think we ever recovered from that (Pitt's 14-point lead). We just didn't have the anger we had before. You know, that little anger you must take into every game. Our defense didn't seem to be as up for this game. Everybody was a 
little hesitant.' 9 
-Eric Dorsey 

Hill recovered at the Notre Dame 14­yard line. Two plays later, tailback Joe McCall scored on a 1 0-yard run, thanks to some excellent blocking by his of-·. fensive line. 
Although 53 minutes still remained in the contest, Fazio maintained a confi­dent demeanor for the rest of the game. 
"Once you do tbat (take the 14-point lead), it's over," reflected Fazio. "Well it's not over. But you can't give us 14 points, the second (touchdown) espe­cially." 
"I don't think we ever recovered from that," said Notre Dame defensive tackle Eric Dorsey in agreement. "We just didn't have the anger we had be­fore. You know, that little anger you must take into every game. Our de­fen'ie didn't seem to be as up for this game. Everybody was a little hesitant." 
A swarming Panther defense, mean­while, was keeping Pinkett at bay. The sophomore tailback did have bursts of 11, 13 and 21 yards, but he was limited to just 13 yards on his eight other car­ries in the first half. The second half was even more frustrating as he netted only 24 yards in 11 carries. For the first time in six weeks, Pinkett missed gain­ing 100 or more yards rushing. 
Before and after the game, the Pan­thers-coaches and players alike -· had great respect for the talents of Pinkett. The Panthers unquestionably tailored their defense to stop Pinkett. 
"We knew if we took Pinkett away they didn't have much of a chance to drive the ball, to sustain any offense," said ·Pitt's outstanding safety, Tom Flynn. "So, we knew all we had to do, basically, was stop him.... We knew if we made them pass then they were playing our ballgame." 
The first five Notre Dame drives in the first half spoke for themselves. Pitt was able to stop Pinkett, for the most part, while also shutting down the pass­ing game. The drive consisted of three plays and a punt, one play and a fum­ble, four plays and a punt, five plays and a punt, and four plays and an inter­ception. Only three minutes were left until halftime when the Irish completed their first pass of the afternoon. 
As bleak as things looked in the first · half for the Irish, they had ample op­portunity to win the game in the second half. Notre Dame moved the ball with consistency. Three interceptions, how­ever, destroyed Irish hopes of a come­back. 
A dramatic shift in momentum took place in the third quarter as the Irish ­aided by Pitt penalties-began to gen­erate their offense. The Irish penetrated as deep as the Pitt 17 and Pitt five-yard lines on separate possessions but had to settle for a Mike Johnston field goal on each occasion. Notre Dame's defense 
''We knew if we took Pinkett away they didn't have much of a chance to drive the ball, to sus­tain any offense. So, we knew all we had to do, basically, was stop him.... We knew if we made them pass then they were playing our 
ballgame.99 
-Tom Flynn 

continued to play admirably after being stunned early, but the Panthers mounted their best and most important drive of the afternoon after Johnston's second field goal cut the lead to 14-6. 
With Chris J elic substituting for the injured Congemi at quarterback, the Panthers drove 80 yards -gaining 40 yards passing and 40 yards rushing -in 11 plays while consuming four minutes off the clock. The 21-6 lead was made possible not only by converting a fourth­and-one situation, but also by complet­ing a clutch 19-yard pass to Wallace on a third-and-11 situation. 
Beuerlein marched his troops right back down to the Pitt seven-yard line, but he forced a pass into the end zone that Pitt's Troy Benson intercepted. Two series later, with just over five minutes left in the game, co-captain Blair Kiel was inserted into the game to help the cause. Kiel came out firing and drove Notre Dame down into Pitt territory once again. But Benson sealed Notre Dame's fate with his second in­terception, this time at his own 27 -yard line. 
"I thought we moved the ball quite well in the second half," said Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust. "We re­grouped at the half. But we had too many mistakes." 
Valiantly, Kiel drove the team 77 yards in the ·final minute -connecting with Pinkett for the touchdown and two-point conversion to make the score 21-14. After an on-side kick by Notre Dame failed, J elic ran out the clock by retreating 47 yards back into his own 

Bringing Pitt offensive tackle Bill Fralic (79, left) to his knees is no simple task, but Irish safety Joe Johnson (27) helped manage that feat. Johnson helped the Notre Dame cause with five tackles, while junior defensive tackle Mike Gann (78, right) contributed a season-high 11. 

''I thought we moved the ball quite well in the second half. We regrouped at the half. We just had too many mistakes.' ' 
-Gerry Faust 
''We.had an oppor­. tunity to beat somebody good. and we didn't 
do it.'' 
-Allen Pinkett 

end zone to make the final score, 21-16. Notre Dame's final two points came on a safety as time ran out. 
"Since a lot of people said we couldn't run against Notre Dame, I sort of wish we hadn't had to take those 40 yards in losses to kill the clock," said Fazio. 
Indeed, the Pitt offensive line was the third major factor-along with the early lead and Notre Dame turnovers -that enabled the Panthers to tri­umph. Before Jelic lost 47 yards in the final seconds, Pitt had rushed for 207 yards against the vaunted Notre Dame defense, including 116 yards by McCall alone. 
"McCall has such a good offensive line in front of him that he doesn't have to work too hard for his yardage," said Notre Dame safety Chris Brown. "The Pitt line is just awesome for running the ball." , 
Led by Fralic, the Pitt offense was able to control the ball, as well as the clock, when it had to do so. 
The loss ended Faust's longest win streak at Notre Dame at five games. 
But, as Pinkett summarized the frus­tration in the Notre Dame locker-room, "We had an opportunity to beat some­body good and we didn't do it." 
Another opportunity would be waiting at Penn State the following week. 
Pittsburgh 14 0 0 7 21 
Notre Dame 0 0 6 10 16 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time UP ND UP-Bill Wallace 44 pass 8:44 6 0 
from John Congemi (Pat Viancourt kick failed) Drive: 61 yards in four plays in 1:43 following Notre Dame punt. 

UP-Joe McCaliiO run 7:S8 14 0 (Marc Bailey pass from John Congemi) Drive: 14 yards in two plays in :40 following Troy Hill recovery of Notre Dame fumble. 
Third Quarter 
UP-Mike Johnston 37 FG 8:41 14 Drive: 49 yards in nine plays in 3:46 following Pittsburgh punt; Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Milt Jackson for 27 yards. 
NO-Mike Johnston 22 FG 2:SS 14 6 Drive: 47 yards in seven plays in 4:16 following Pittsburgh punt; Big Play: Steve Beuerlein pass to Joe Howard for 12 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
UP-Joe McCaUl run 13:54 21 6 (Snuffy Everett kick) Drive: 80 yards in II plays in 4:01 following Notre Dame kickoff; Big Play: Joe McCall run for 31 yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 9 pass from Blair Kiel :22 21 14 (Allen Pinkett pass from Blair Kiel) Drive: 77 yards in 10 plays in 1:19 following Pittsburgh punt; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Mark Bavaro for 34 yards. 
NO-Safety, Chris Jelic tackled in end :00 21 16 zone by Troy Wilson A-S9,07S(c) 
Team Statistics UP ND 

First Downs 16 21 Rushing II 6 Passing s II Penalty 0 4 Rushing Attempts S3 30 Yards Rushing 231 141 Yards Lost Rushing 71 31 Net Yards Rushing 160 110 Net Yards Passing 127 242 Passes Attempted 20 39 Passes Completed II 17 Had Intercepted 0 4 Total Offensive Plays 73 69 Total Net Yards 287 3S2 
Average Gain Per Play 3.9 S.l Fumbles: Number-Lost 2..0 1-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 12-99 4-49 Interceptions: Number-Yards 4-40 
0..() Number of Punts-Yards 9-376 S-187 Average Per Punt 41.8 37.4 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-10 3-23 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 
0..() 3-8S Third-Down Conversions S-17 2-11 
Individual Statistics Pittsburgh 

Rushing Joe McCall  Att. 23  Gain Lost 118 2  Net 116  TD 2  Long 31  
Marion Mcintyre Marc Bailey Matt Stennett  12 8 I  48 34 28  0 2 0  48 32 28  0 0 0  7 9 28  
John Congemi Chris Jelic  3 6  0 3  20 47  -20 -44  0 0  -3 2  
Passing John Congemi Chris Jelic  Att. Comp. 13 8 7 3  Int. 0 0  Yards 87 40  TD 1 0  Long 44 19  
Pass Receiving Bill Wallace  No. s  Yards 90  TD I  Long 44  
Marion Mcintyre Oint Wilson  3 I  16 IS  0 0  7 IS  
Pat Schipani Marc Bailey  I I  7 -I  0 0  7 -I  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Allen Pinkett  Au; 22  Gain Lost 101 19  Net 82  TD 0  Long 21  
Chris Smith  3  18  0  18  0  16  
Steve Beuerlein  3  19  12  7  0  19  
M_ark Brooks  2  3  0  3  0  2  
Passing Blair Kiel  Att. Comp. 16 9  Int. I  Yards 134  TD I  Long 34  
Steve Beuerlein  23  8  3  108  0  27  
Pass Receiving Milt Jackson  No. s  Yards 78  TD 0  LonK 27  
Joe Howard  3  48  0  21  
Allen Pinkett  3  IS  I  9  
Mark Bavaro  2  47  0  34  
Mike Favorite  2  31  0  17  
Alvin Miller  I  18  0  18  
Chris Smith  I  s  0  s  

Penn State 
All But the Cigar 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Charles Dickens was never known as much of a sportswriter, but his classic line from "A Tale of Two Cities" truly sums up the Irish viewpoint of~ Penn State's 34-30 victory over Notre Dame. 
It was the best of times. It was the worst of times. 
It was the best of times for sopho­more tailback Allen Pinkett, who dashed, danced and darted his way to his best performance of the year. All Pinkett contributed to the Notre Dame offense was 217 yards rushing on 36 carries and four touchdowns. It was just another day at the office for Pinkett, who is quickly becoming something of a deity to Irish fans. 
Yet, for Pinkett it was also the worst of times. Despite all the yardage he gained, the yard he most remembers is the one he didn't get on a critical third­and-one play from the Notre Dame 21. If Pinkett would have picked up the first down, the Irish would have been able to run out the clock and walk away with a victory. However, on this particular play, Nittany Lion linebacker Rogers Alexander roared into the back­field on a blitz and brought Pinkett to the icy Beaver Stadium turf for a four­yard loss, giving Penn State one more chance. 
"They were overloaded to the out­side," noted Pinkett afterwards. "He (Alexander) came on a 'hard' blitz and stuffed our blocker back into me. I was too close to our blocker. 
"I can't believe we lost. I wish I could have picked up that yard for the first down." 
Pinkett was not the only Irish player to turn in an admirable performance only to see it go for naught. For Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein, this Satur­day afternoon in State College, Pa., was also the best of times· and the worst of times. 
Beuerlein, who only the week before had been pulied from the Pitt game·, turned in the finest performance of his brief career against the Nittany Lions. Battling gusty northwest winds which sent the wind chill well below 10 de­grees, the freshman signalcaller com­pleted 14 of 20 passes for 257 yards and constantly connected with his receivers on critical third-down passes to keep scoring drives alive. 


Nevertheless, Beuerlein will live long in the memory of Irish fans for his in­ability to penetrate the goal line on the last play of the first half. With 10 sec­onds left in the half and Notre Dame only inches from the Penn State goal line, Irish coach Gerry Faust ordered a quarterback sneak. But the Penn State defense was up to the task, stopping Beuerlein short of the end zone, and with no timeouts left, all the young quarterback could do was watch time run out. 
Yes, even Gerry Faust would be caught in the ambiguity of this game. Faust could delight in the fact that his offense, which had sputtered in recent weeks, moved up and down the field like a well-oiled machine. Unfortunately, the Irish defense, which had been a stalwart force all season long, suddenly broke down and allowed 34 points. 
Still, it looked as though Faust may have had a .Fiesta Bowl bid in hand with 53 seconds left in the game and Penn State sitting at midfield and trailing by three. However, it was not to be for the Irish on this day. The loss prompted second-guessing of the third-year Irish mentor's play selection from even Faust himself. 
"We went with the sneak because we thought we could make it," said Faust of the final first-half play. "If I had it to do over, I would have called another play. We were looking at the situation from field level, since our coaches in the press box were making their way down to the locker room." 
Although the Irish lost, few Irish fans could argue that this was not a marvelous football game. There was something for everyone in this donny­brook in central Pennsylvania. 
You say you like lots of offense in a football game? Then, this was the game for you. The Irish and Nittany Lions rolled up a combined total of 962 yards in total offense, scoring eight touchdowns and three field goals. Quar­terbacks Beuerlein and Doug Strang abused their opponent's defensive sec­ondaries, as each signalcaller threw for over 250 yards. Receivers Milt Jackson of Notre Dame and Kenny Jackson of Penn State (no relation, thank you) each hauled in more than 100 yards in re­ceiving. 

However, if you are the kind of fan who thrives on big defensive plays, you could also find plenty of thrills in this contest. The Nittany Lion goal line stand to end the first half and Alexan­der's key stop of Pinkett late in the game were major factors in the demise of the Irish. On the other hand, Notre Dame came up with its share of big plays. With Penn State driving toward a go-ahead touchdown late in the game, Irish middle linebacker Tony Furjanic stripped freshman tailback D. J. Dozier of the football, and Pat Ballage was right there to make. the recovery to halt the scoring threat. 
And if you love football games that go down to the wire, then you should have been among the 85,899 fans that composed the second-largest crowd in Beaver Stadium history. Nick Ganci­tano's 37-yard first quarter field goal capped an 11-play drive that put the Nittany Lions on top 3-0, commencing the scoring in this wild affair. 
The Irish started their first comeback of the day in the late stages of the first quarter, as Pinkett started to employ his theory of thermodynamics to set up Notre Dame's first score of the after­noon. 
"Usually my theory is to run scared, but today I had to combine that with the theory of thermodynamics because it was cold outside," said Pinkett. "I figured I was going to have to run as long and as hard as possible just to keep warm." 

Run Pinkett did, as he carried the ball on five straight plays to move the ball into field goal range for Mike John­ston. With a 35-mile-per-hour wind at his back, Johnston had no problems connecting from 39 yards out, and the Irish were all even at 3-3. 
But this was not to be Pinkett's day. This day belonged to Strang, who started to move the Nittany Lion of­fense by making the big play. Follow­ing the Johnston field goal, Strang moved Penn State downfield to. paydirt, finding Kenny Jackson open for an 11­yard touchdown strike to give the Lions a 10-3 lead. For Jackson, it was his 101st career reception, and served as the start of a big day for the All­American flanker. 
"In the end I knew I'd show people and myself I could play," said Jackson, who had been having an off-year until the Irish came to town. 
Part of the reason for Jackson's big day was the choice by the Irish coach­ing staff to go with singles coverage on the Penn State speedster. Freshman Troy Wilson had the responsibility of covering Jackson early, and admittedly may have given him too much room to operate. 
"I was in awe of him in the begin­ning," said Wilson. "I played off him too much and it cost us a touchdown. He broke down the inside and then cut to the outside. The thing about Jackson is that he runs excellent patterns." 
Meanwhile, Pinkett started running patterns, too, weaving his way through 

Chris Smith signals touchdown on the final play of the first half, but it didn't work out that way for the Irish. Steve Beuerlein (7, behind Mark Bavaro) tried a quarterback sneak but didn't get into the end zone. 
the Penn State defense for big gains. His running, coupled with a pair of big completions by Beuerlein, highlighted the next Irish drive. Pinkett finished off the march with a 17-yard gallop off the right side to tie the game at 10. It was the first of four touchdowns that day for Pinkett, whose performance im­pressed the Penn State defense so much that their postgame comments read like the minutes of ·an Allen Pinkett Fan Club meeting. 
"He's a real strong runner," noted Penn State coach Joe Paterno, who collected his third straight coaching vic­tory over the Irish. "He reminds me of Tony: Dorsett a lot." 
Echoing Paterno's praise were line­backer Carmen Masciantonio and hero back Harry Hamilton. "You had to wrap your arms around him or he'd bounce off of you," said Masciantonio, who should know after making seven stops of Pinkett throughout the after­noon. "He proved he's a great back today," commented Hamilton. "We could have won by a wider margin had we -contained him." 
While the Nittany Lion defense had problems containing Pinkett, the Irish could do no better against Strang, who methodically directed Penn State down­field on the strength of his passing arm. While this next drive stalled out, the Lions were close enough for Gancitano to split the uprights from 40 yards away and give the home team a 13-10 halftime advantage. 
'6Usually my theory is to run scared, but today I had to combine that with the theory of ther­modynamics because it was cold outside. I figured I was going to have to run as long and as hard as possible just 
to keep warm.99 
-Allen Pinkett 
The lead was short-lived, however, as Beuerlein came out firing in the second half. On third down from his own 32, the Fullerton,. Calif., freshman found Mark Bavaro open over; the middle, and the big tight end rambled to the Penn State 16. From there, Pinkett waltzed into the end zone on the next play to give Notre Dame its first lead of the day. 
Jackson (Penn State's version) knew the lead wouldn't last for long. "It's just something about this Penn State team, nobody can put a grasp on it. It seems any team we're playing in this stadium that is supposed to beat us really doesn't come in and beat us." 
While Jackson was grasping for an­swers, Irish defenders were trying to grab Penn State fullbar;k Jon Williams. But all the Irish defense could come up with was armfuls of air, as Williams ran 46 yards with a screen pass to put the Nittany Lions back on top, 20-17. 
"It was a 41-screen," said Williams of the play. "I caught the ball, the blockers took off and I took off after them." 
The Irish, in tum, took off in pursuit of the lead and finally caught it on the first play of the final stanza when Pink­ett (who else?) capped Notre Dame's finest drive of the season when he dove over the goal line from one yard out. That play capped a march which saw the Irish steamroll for 94 yards in 14 plays. 
Prosperity did not last long for the Irish, though, as Strang once again found Jackson in the end zone and completed a 29-yard pass to put Penn State ahead, 27-24. This time, it was veteran cornerback Stacey Toran who was burned by the AU-American, who he believes "is the best receiver I've ever gone up against. He's not fast like Anthony Carter, but he is awfully quick and runs excellent routes." 


However, the "other" Jackson, Notre Dame's Milt Jackson, also ran an ex­cellent route to help put the Irish in scoring position. On third and eight from the Irish 46, Jackson took off down the right sideline and Beuerlein put the ball right on the money to move to the Penn State six. 
It looked as though Penn State would come up with another goalline stand, as the Irish were faced with a fourth-and­goal situation from the Nittany Lion one. This time there would be no quar­terback sneak, as Pinkett swept around the right side for the score. When holder Kevin Smith could not handle the snap from center, he tried to run it for the two-point conversion. He came up short, though, and the Irish· were holding a precarious 30-27 lead heading into the waning minutes. 
That set the stage for the dramatics: Ballage's recovery of Dozier's fumble, Alexander's .stop of Pinkett, and a wobbly Blair Kiel punt which gave the Nittany Lions the ball on the midfield stripe with 53 seconds left. 
"There were doubts in my mind after Dozier's fumble," said Strang. "I wasn't sure if we were going to get it back. But I saw D. J. walking off the field with his head down, and I knew we couldn't let D. J. have that fumble on his shoulders." 
Strang took care of the situation al­most single-handedly. First, he put Penn State into a position to go for the touch­down and the lead when he connected with tight end Dean DiMidio over the middle for a 36-yard gain to the Irish nine. Then, on third and eight, Paterno called "88-89," a rollout play. 
"They had been blitzing all day, and we wanted to get man-to-man coverage on our wideouts," recalled Paterno. However, this time the Irish didn't blitz, but as Strang rolled out there were no Irish jerseys in front of him, so he tucked it away and dove into the end zone for the game-winning touchdown with only 19 ticks left on. the clock. 
"All I remember is diving over the goal line and then Tony Mumford (a Penn State tailback) lying on top of me for about 10 minutes, facemask-to­facemask, just screaming," recalled Strang. "As long as I live, I'll never forget it.'~ 
"They kept off, but not enough to contain and Doug spotted it and took it in," said Paterno, whose Lions boosted their record to 7-4 with the last-minute triumph. 
Faust spoke in agreement with Pa;.. terno. "Someone missed a containment," admitted Faust, who realized his squad's bowl hopes were blowing away in the 35-mph wind. 
"It was a great game for the specta­tors," commented Faust, whose Irish fell to 6-4 with the loss. "But not for the losing coach." 
While that quotation doesn't rank up there with Dickens, it provides another good summary of this contest from the Irish viewpoint. 
For Penn State, it was the best of times. For Notre Dame, it was the worst of times. 


Notre Dame 0 10 7 13 30 
Penn State 3 10 14 34 
Scoring Summary Flnl Quarter Time PS NO PS-Nick Gancitano 37 FG 6:52 3 0 
Drive: 43 yards in 11 plays in S:lS 

following Notre Dame punt. Second Quarter NO-Mike Johnston 39 FG 13:37 
Drive: 41 yards in seven plays in 2:48 following Penn State punt. 

PS-Kenny Jackson 11 pass from Doug Strang 9:29 10 3 (Nick Gancitano kick) Drive: 80 yards in nine plays in 4:08 following Notre Dame kickoff. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 17 run S:l4 10 10 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 77 yards in nine plays in 4:10 following Penn State kickoff. 
PS-Nick Gancitano 40 FG 1:04 13 10 Drive: S7 yards in 12 plays in 4:10 following Notre Dame kickoff. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 16 run 11:06 13 17 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 80 yards in six plays in 1 :S4 following second-half kickoff. 
PS-Jon Williams 46 pass from Doug Strang 9:13 20 17 (Nick Gancitano kick) Drive: 82 yards in nine plays in 3:48 following Notre Dame kickoff. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run 14:58 20 24 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 94 yards in 14 plays in 4:36 following Penn State punt. 
PS-KennyJackson29passfromDougStrang 12:11 27 24 (Nick Gancitano kick) Drive: 80 yards in eight plays in 2:47 following Notre Dame kickoff. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 1 run 7:31 27 30 (Kevin Smith run failed) Drive: 77 yards in 10 plays in 3:36 following Penn State kickoff. 
PS-Doug Strang 8 run :19 34 30 (Nick Gancitano kick) Drive: SO yards in five plays in :34 following Notre Dame punt. 
A-85,899 (c) 
Team Statistics NO PS 

First Downs 24 26 Rushing 13 11 Passing 11 14 Penalty 0 1 Rushing Attempts S2 44 Yards Rushing 276 183 Yards Lost Rushing 3-7 6-21 Net Yards Rushing 269 162 Net Yards Passing 2S7 274 Passes Attempted 20 24 Passes Completed 14 16 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Offensive Plays 72 68 Total Net Yards S26 436 Return Yards 6 0 Average Gain Per Play 7.3 6.4 Fumbles: Number-Lost 3-0 2-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 3-2S 0 Interceptions: Number-Yards 0-0 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards 4-132 2-101 Average Per Punt 33.0 so.s Punt Returns: Number-Yards 1-6 0-0 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 6-82 2-31 Third-Down Conversions 8-13 7-10 
Individual Statistics Penn Stale 

Rushing D.J. Dozier  Att. 21  Gain Losl 9S I  Net 94  TO 0  Long 14  
Jon Williams  IS  62  1  61  0  12  
Doug Strang Tony Mumford Kenny Jackson  6 I I  24 2 0  13 0 6  11 2 -6  I 0 0  9 2 -6  
Passin~ Doug trang  Att. Comp. 24 16  In I. 0  Yards 274  TO 3  Long 46  
Pass Receiving Kenny Jackson Jon Williams  No. 7 3  Yards 101 6S  TO 2 I  Long 29 46  
Dean Dimidio  2  S6  0  36  
Kevin Baugh D.J. Dozier  2 2  31 21  0 0  23 12  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Allen Pinkett  Att. 36  Gain Losl 227 10  Net 217  TO 4  Long 19  
Chris Smith  7  22  0  22  0  6  
H. Francisco  3  13  0  13  0  6  
Mark Brooks  2  IS  0  IS  0  9  
Steve Beuerlein  4  3  1  2  0  3  
Passing Steve Beuerlein  Att. Comp. 20 14  In I. 0  Yards 2S7  TO 0  Long S2  
Pass Receiving Mark Bavaro  No. s  Yards 77  TO 0  Long S2  
Milt Jackson  4  118  0  46  
Joe Howard  2  40  0  2S  
Chris Smith  2  2S  0  22  
Allen Pinkett  I  -3  0  -3  

Air Force 

So Close-Yet So Far 
By JOHN HEISLER 
It was a day for senior quarterback Blair Kiel to return from the outhouse to the penthouse and have the best pass­ing afternoon of his entire collegiate career. 
It was a day for sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett to compile the eighth-best 
single-game  rushing  total  in  Notre  
Dame history.  
It was  a  day  for  Notre Dame  to  

amass 521 yards of total offense, hitting the 500-yard mark for the second con­secutive week. 
It was a day for freshman Alonzo Jefferson to run a kickoff back 91 yards for a touchdown before the regional television audience. 
It was a day for another of those patented Notre Dame finishes, one that saw the Irish move from their own 29 to the Air Force 14 and put themselves perfectly in position for the game­winning field goal as time ran out. 
Only it never quite happened that way. And the whole darn situation made Irish coach Gerry Faust want to pound the Notre Dame Stadium turf in frustration. 
The fact that Notre Dame lost the 23-22 decision to Air Force hardly was a sin in itself. The Falcons, ranked second in the nation in rushing, were in the process of having the greatest season in their history. Their Indepen­dence Bowl win over Ole Miss three weeks later gave them 10 wins, the most ever by an academy team. 
But, with a Liberty Bowl invitation just waiting for the Irish to accept it, Notre Dame walked off its home field dazed by the last-second loss and won­dering whether to accept the bid or not. 
Somehow, things should have turned out better for Faust and his squad. 
When Kiel comes off the bench in the second period and completes 16 of 22 passes for a career-high 285 yards and two touchdowns, it should be a happy moment. ­
"Statistics are irrelevant when you lose," said Kiel. "Cry? I probably· will. Personally, it makes me feel good to come off the bench like that-l've been sitting for a long time-but it hurts to lose. I don't know if the Lord is trying to teach us ·something or what. It doesn't seein like we're getting any breaks." 


When Pinkett rushes 27 times for 197 yards, catches five passes for 93 yards and sets a Notre Dame record for most touchdowns in a season, it should be 'a cause for elation. 
"If I wasn't a team player, I'd be happy right now," he said. "I just feel there was something more I could have done." 
When Jefferson zips the length of the field for the clinching touchdown, it should prompt an end zone celebration. A clipping penalty, however, negated the entire play. The Irish started instead from their own five-yard line and ended up punting after reaching the 18. 
But when the usually-dependable Mike Johnston has a PAT attempt blocked for the only time in his career and watches two of his field-goal tries get rejected, it's simply not Notre Dame's day. 
"I guess I screwed it up," he noted ruefully. 
The balmy, 64-degree November day had dawned so much brighter for the Irish. They were closing the regular season at home for the first time in 14 seasons, against a team that had never beaten Notre Dame in South Bend. With the ABC cameras on hand, the Irish had hopes of winning their regu­lar-season finale for the first time since '79 and ending a string of four straight losses in network-televised encounters. But it wasn't to be for the 24 seniors dressed in blue jerseys for the final time. 
Notre Dame wasted little time letting the Falcons know how intimately Pink­ett would be involved in the day's af­fairs. On Notre Dame's first possession, he carried seven times for 46 yards, only to have Air Force's Chris Funk block Johnston's 50-yard field-goal at­tempt, the longest try in his career. 
After a quick exchange of punts, the Irish got their first taste of 5-9 junior tailback Mike Brown, who was filling in for the suspended J ody Simmons. Brown, a 174-pounder who would end up with 148 yards of his own on 16 carries, came up with a key 26-yard gain on an option pitch just as quarter­back Marty Louthan was disappearing in the grasp of Tim Marshall. That run put Air Force on the Notre Dame 10 and minutes later Sean Pavlich opened the second quarter by kicking a 25-yard field goal. . 
When Steve Beuerlein was inter­cepted four plays later, the Falcons went to work a·gain. This time Louthan kept it exclusively on the ground until faced with a fourth-and-three call at the Irish 10. With Pavlich primed to kick another three-pointer, holder Greg Zol­ninger shovel-passed to Von Cameron for five yards and the necessary first down. One play later, fullback John 

Greg Dingens towers over Falcon quarterback Marty Louthan. 
Kershner hulled the last two yards for a 10-0 edge. 
"We've run that twice before this season and scored twice," said Falcon coach Ken Hatfield of the fake field goal. "It was really a big play for us. From looking at the film, we thought it would be there and it was." 
Kiel entered the game at that point and immediately set about getting his team back in the football game. The Irish needed ~five plays to score seven points, with Kiel completing a pair of passes and Pinkett running 41 yards once and then seven yards for the touchdown. 
Both teams squandered chances late in the second period. Air Force drove to the Notre Dame two-the last 36 yards on another pitch to Brown -be­fore Tony Furjanic recovered a Brown fumble on a first-and-goal opportunity. The Irish went the other direction until a Kiel pass was picked off by Shawn Smith after Notre Dame had motored to the Falcon 23. 
Pinkett, who had 120 of his yards in the first half alone, took charge quickly following intermission. Notre Dame took the lead for good with consecutive 61-yard drives, the first producing a Johnston field goal from 37 yards and the second ending in a Kiel-to-Milt Jackson toss that barely saw Jackson toe the sideline inbounds. Pinkett rushed for 57 of the 61 yards on the first drive and made the big play on the second by zigzagging 46 yards with a screen pass. 
Notre Dame did its best to nail the Falcon coffin shut early in the fourth period when Kiel found Joe Howard in stride with the bomb for 67 yards and a 22-10 advantage. The Irish misfired on a two-point conversion try (Kiel threw for Jackson) after Johnston's PAT attempt had been blocked on the previous score. 
A couple more golden opportunities slipped through Irish hands as the final period unfolded. With the Irish leading by 12, a Louthan pass toward the Notre Dame sideline somehow bounced out of the hands of safety Chris Brown and landed back in the grasp of intended re­ceiver Mike Kirby for a 15-yard gain. Two plays later Louthan threw 48 yards to Kirby for the touchdown. This time, it was Pavlich whose PAT was wide. 
"I was trying to run before I caught the ball," said Brown of his near-inter­ception. "I saw it. But then the next thing I remember is it hitting off my leg." 
Still, Notre Dame had a chance to reassume a commanding margin, but Jefferson's return on the ensuing kickoff was wiped out by clipping. When the Irish punted after six plays, Air Force opened the drive that produced what turned out to be the game-winning points. Brown again did the brunt of the damage, bursting 42 yards from his own 24 to the Irish 34 on the second play. The 11-play drive didn't include a single pass, with Kershner accounting for the final yard on a first-and-goal play with 1:35 remaining. 
"Actually we called a safer play," said Hatfield of that final touchdown. "We didn't really expect to score on first down, but John messed up and scored anyway. We'll have to give him a demerit for that." 


Amazingly, Pavlich missed yet an­other extra point, but a Notre Dame offside penalty gave him another chance. This time his boot was true. 
But the Irish weren't finished yet. Kiel, in spectacular fashion, moved them 57 yards into position for John­ston to try the game-winner. Pinkett first caught a quick pass from Kiel for 16 yards, then did the same thing for 13 more to the Air Force 42. Chris Smith gained 12 on a delay, then Pinkett added 10 more on a throw from Kiel. After a Pinkett run for no gain and a Smith run for six yards­sandwiched by one timeout -Notre Dame called its last timeout after the clock ran down to four seconds. Air Force called one of its own to further unnerve those involved-but Johnston had only to convert a makeable 31­yarder to hand the Irish the victory. 
"We felt Johnston was a low kicker. Watching films of the Pitt game, we noticed the field was slippery even when it wasn't raining," said Hatfield. "So we took the extra timeout. Normally we go low and try to put pressure on the center. This time we told our kids to stand straight up and go high." 
Funk followed that order to the letter. He got a hand on the kick and it wobbled left and short of the goal posts. 
"I felt like I hit it solid," said John­ston. "I still had my head down when I heard it hit." 
"I felt awful during those last four seconds," said Kiel. "I didn't want to put all the blame on Mike because he's done a great job for us all year." 
Hatfield had his own angle: 

"No one up here felt we had a chance, which only helped us. I'd like to thank you (the media) for making us a 14-point underdog. Notre Dame had a lot going for them. They wanted revenge for last year. Last year after Notre Dame played Penn State, I told my players that we had the game won. This year I told them it would be a real dogfight, a look-' em-in-the-eyeball game. Win or lose, it's the kind of game you remember the rest of your life.'' 
Hatfield hit it right on the nose. But the Irish would have to remember it for all the wrong reasons. 

Air Force 0 10 0 13 23 
Notre Dame 0 7 9 6 22 
Storing Summary Second Quarter Time AF ND AF-Sean Pavlich 2S FG 14:S6 3 0 
Drive: 4S yards in eight plays in 4:00 following Notre Dame punt; Big Play: Mike Brown run for 26 yards. 

AF-John Kershner 2 run 9:00 10 0 (Sean Pavlich kick) Drive: 43 yards in 11 plays in S:l6 following Dwan Wilson interception of Notre Dame pass; Big Play: John Kershner run for 11 yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 7 run 7:23 10 7 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 80 yards in five plays in 1 :37 following Air Force kickoff; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 41 yards. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Mike Johnston 37 FG 7:S7 10 10 Drive: 61 yards in eight plays in 3:19 following Air Force punt: Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 37 yards. 
NO-Milt Jackson 9 pass from Blair Kiel 2:Sl 10 16 (Mike Johnston kick blocked) Drive: 61 yards in five plays in 2:41 following Air Force punt; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Allen Pinkett for 46 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Joe Howard 67 pass from Blair Kiel 13:36 10 22 (Blair Kiel pass failed) Drive: 1S yards in four plays in :S8 following Air Force punt. 
AF-Mike Kirby48 pass from 10:19 16 22 Marty Louthan (Sean Pavlich kick failed) Drive: 1S yards in six plays in 3:17 following Notre Dame kickoff; Big Play: Many Louthan pass to Mike Kir­by for IS yards. 
AF-John Kershner 1 run 1:3S 23 22 (Sean Pavlich kick) Drive: 74 yards in 11 plays in S:l7 following Notre Dame punt; Big Play: Mike Brown run for 42 yards. A-S9,01S (c) 
Team Statistics AF ND 

First Downs 22 22 Rushing lS 9 Passing 6 13 Penalty 1 0 Rushing Attempts 60 36 Yards Rushing 304 236 Yards Lost Rushing 21 3 Net Yards Rushing 283 233 Net Yards Passing 124 288 Passes Attempted 12 27 Passes Completed 7 17 Had Intercepted 0 2 Total Offensive Plays 72 63 Total Net Yards 407 S21 Average Gain Per Play S.1 8.3 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 1-0 Penalties: Number-Yards 6-43 9·89 Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-14 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards S-219 3-128 Average Per Punt 43.8 42.7 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 1-9 3-10 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 4-S8 3-4S Third-Down Conversions 8-lS 7-12 
Individual Statistics Air Force 

Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Mike Brown  16  149  I  148  0  42  
John Kershner  21  77  0  77  2  14  
Many Louthan  19  S9  20  39  0  9  
Ted Sundquist  3  IS  0  lS  0  11  
Randy Jones  I  4  0  4  0  4  
Passing  AU. Comp.  Int.  Yards  m  Long  
Many Louthan  11  6  0  119  1  48  
Greg Zolninger  ·I  I  0  s  0  s  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Mike Kirby  4  100  1  48  
Jeff Rose  I  10  0  10  
Mike Brown  1  9  0  9  
Von Cameron  1  s  0  s  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  27  199  2  197  1  41  
Chris Smith  6  33  0  33  0  12  
Mark Brooks  1  4  0  4  0  4  
Blair Kiel  2  0  I  -1  0  1  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Blair Kiel  22  16  1  28S  2  67  
Steve Beuerlein  s  1  1  3  0  03  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  s  93  0  46  
Milt Jackson  s  S8  1  17  
Mark Bavaro  3  28  0  11  
Joe Howard  2  90  1  67  
Chris Smith  2  19  0  12  

}Liberty Bowl 
A Most Valuable Win 
By JOHN HEISLER 
In the war .of ·words that preceded the 1983 Liberty.Bowl, it was just about a match race between Notre Dame and Boston College. 
When Gerry Faust, Jack Bicknell and their respectiv.e :pl~yers _.got through de­batif!g, :it ·..was ;hard ;to tell which team had rthe :most tto tgain.or :lase. 
But lheliev.e iit .when tthose involved hint ,of 1the .emotion iinvolYed jn lboth camps. 
"We~v.e :been ~here ,for Jour days," said Eagle :rriighty-mite ·quarterback Doug Flutie, ·'~but :now that 'Notre Dame gets 'into :town, :the Liberty Bowl can officially happen." ~ 
"Let's be honest," .said Bickne11. "People .aren'.t here .to ·see Boston Col­lege. Notre Dame 'is the attraction. 
"I get .awfully nervous when I hear how important a ,game tbis is for ,them, bow they want to .redeem themselves . 
I wish you (the media) wouldn't upset them with those questions. They are getting uglier and uglier." 
"I don't mean to be rude, but we're the ones playing the game," said Irish quarterback Blair Kiel. "We really don't care what other people think about whether or not we belong here. We're the ones putting on the pads, going out to practice. We're the ones who put in the time. Whether we should be here or not, we are here. Hopefully we'll 'be able to show people we belong." 
"Ten years down the road no one will remember if Notre Dame was 6-5 or 11-0," said linebacker Steve DeOssie of Boston Co11ege. "We're going out to try to beat the cream of college foot­ball." 
There were those who suggested that neither team had anything to gain by plying its trade before the Liberty Bowl fans :and .the Katz Sports cameras. 
Boston College came in with a num­ber-13 national ranking and a 9-2 rec­ord that included ·wins over Clemson (the Tigers' only loss), eventual Aloha Bowl winner Penn State and eventual Sun Bowl winner Alabama. A week after the game, the Eagles would be awarded the Lambert Trophy as the top team in the East. But there were plenty of Boston College types who felt the Eagles -though shooting for their first 1 0-win season since Frank Leahy was coach in 1940-were in a no-win situa­tion. 
"The only way we can benefit is to win soundly," said DeOssie. "If we win, 22-20, that's not enough. We've got to win by at least two or three touchdowns if it's going to help us." 
Others suggested a win really wouldn't help the Irish much, either. After all, there's not that much difference be­tween 6-6 and 7-5 in a season in which 



Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkett moves onward and upward toward the goal line in scoring Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
Boston College linebacker Steve DeOssie attempts to block his path. 
so much more was expected, said the cynics. But Irish athletic director Gene Cor­rigan may have hit the nail on the head: 
"I think the players really want to win one for themselves because they've been criticized, too. They want to win one for Notre Dame." 
There wasn't much question that the Irish had been stung by the postseason criticism of themselves and their coach. 
"It seems like we've been persecuted ever since we decided to go to a bowl," said tailback ·Allen Pinkett. "I feel like I put in so much of my time and effort and this is what I get in return-nega­tive publicity." 
So the Irish decided to change all that. They didn't exactly run roughshod over Boston College in the 19-18 win on frozen turf in 12-degree weather and zero-degree wind-chill conditions. But they accomplished a number of note­worthy items: 
• 
They beat a ranked team with a winning record for the first time in 1983. Even Miami and Pitt had not been ranked at the time they played the Irish, though· both moved into the top 20 the following week. 

• 
They avoided losing the final game of the season for the first time since 1979 when Notre Dame defeated Miami in the Mirage Bowl to finish 7-4. 

• 
To the coaches' credit, they recog­nized that standing pat in a bowl game just wouldn't do. They came up with a new formation -putting the tailback and fullback further apart in a split-


back alignment-that was utilized with great success. 
"We knew Boston College would pre­pare and key on Pinkett and we wanted to show them a different picture," said Irish offensive coordinator Ron Hudson. 
• In that same vein, they recognized there is more to the Notre Dame run­ning game than Allen Pinkett left and Allen Pinkett right. Pinkett, indeed, got his 111 yards, two touchdowns and of­fensive MVP award, but it was fullback Chris Smith who stole the show with 104 yards on 18 carries, both career highs. He probably deserved that MVP award, as Pinkett duly noted. 
"In pregame warmups, Coach Faust came up to me and said, 'Smitty, you'll be getting the ball a lot more than ever before.' I just sort of looked at him funny," said Smith. 
"There's more firepower on this team than just Allen Pinkett," noted Pinkett himself. 
• They proved that maybe, just maybe, Blair Kiel was a lot better quar­terback than many people gave him credit for being. After his sizzling effort against Air Force in the regular-season finale, Kiel earned the Liberty Bowl starting nod from Faust and directed the Irish nearly flawlessly. 
"It was time to prove myself," said Kiel. "I'm happy we were able to accom­plish what I thought all along we could accomplish. We played well and it was a good way to end it. We got tired of feeling sorry for ourselves. Maybe I've done too much of that. I realized you can't worry about past mistakes. We realized we had to suck it up and make our own breaks." 
• 
They put together a defensive phi­losophy that did the job on Flutie, de­spite his 287 passing yards. Whe~ the going got tense on Boston Coliege's final drive, the Irish held on fourth down from the Notre Dame 35. 

• 
They came from behind to win a game for the first time in 1983 and only the fourth time in Faust's tenure at Notre Dame. 

• 
They held on to win in the final minutes-just the opposite of what had transpired in November losses to Penn State and Air Force-protecting a one-point lead the last 22 minutes of the game. Kiel helped immeasurably with his punting as the Eagles were forced to take over on their own one, 11 and 12 on second-half drives. 

"This proved we can do it when the game's on the line," said Irish safety Chris Brown. "We emphasized all year to always win the fourth quarter. It was very good to do it." 

• 
They made particularly good use of rookie flanker Alvin Miller. The 6-4, 200-pound speedster snared three re­ceptions for 31 yards and Notre Dame's second touchdown after catching only two passes during the entire regular season. 

• 
More than anything, the Irish proved that after three straight losses they simply weren't interested in watch­ing that same scenario unfold once again. 




"We've had a little adversity," ad­mitted Faust. "Sometimes that makes a team better and a player better." 
If the Irish players knew anything coming in, it was just how excited their Boston College counterparts were to get their hands on Notre Dame. 
"Man, I want Notre Dame bad!" said Boston College linebacker Peter Holey. "I've been hearing how great these guys are and how much tradition they have. Well, we're ready!" 
Notre Dame couldn't have missed that emotional tagline on Boston Col­lege's first possession. Flutie fired con­secutive completions to Brian Brennan and Brendan Murphy for gains of 17 and 29 yards down to the Irish 13. From there, he hit Brennan for the score less than three minutes into the game. Notre Dame's only salvation was that Brian Waldron missed the PAT at­tempt, the first of three missed con­versions by the Eagles and misses that helped provide the winning margin for the Irish. 
If the Eagles had the ability to strike quickly with Flutie and his antics, Notre Dame proved on the ensuing drive it could have the same sort of success with a ball-control pattern em­phasizing the Irish dominance in the· trenches. 
Kiel led his team 87 yards, complet­ing only one pass during the 16-play drive, as Pinkett and Smith took turns pounding away at the Eagles. Pinkett ended the nearly eight-minute posses­sion by diving from the one on fourth down for the last of his 31 yards during the drive. Mike Johnston's successful conversion (the only one of his three attempts that went through the icy uprights) provided what turned out to be the winning margin. 
"I knew we were. on our way when we came right back and scored after Boston College's first touchdown," said Irish defensive end Mike Golic. "That was one of the biggest things in the game." 
After an exchange of punts and an exchange of interceptions (Tony Fur­janie's pickoff allowed the Irish to take over on their 34, then three plays later George Radachowsky's theft put Boston College on its own 22), Golic blocked a punt to put the Irish at the Eagle six. On third and goal, after a 10-yard holding penalty, Kiel found Miller for the touchdown. 
"Nobody hit me when I was coming in," Golic said. "I just decided to go for it and it worked. It was an in­credible feeling." 
The Irish came right back for their final points on their very next posses­sion. Kiel got it started by rolling out and hitting tight end Mark Bavaro for 20 yards. Then Pinkett and Smith Most of the remainder of the action took place in the Eagle end of the field. Notre Dame drove to the Boston Col­lege 31 before Kiel's punt was downed at the one. The 'Irish next drove to the Eagle 23 where a fumbled snap was recovered by Boston College. Notre Dame then moved to the Eagle 22 be­fore a penalty pushed it back and forced another Kiel punt, this one 

''A lot of things don't 
go your way in life. But 

downed at the 11. A final march ended
if you have faith, it's 

on the Eagle 36, with Kiel's punt re­sulting in another fair catch at the
amazing how things 

Boston College 12.
work out. I don't think 

In between, the Notre Dame defense did the job. Stacey Toran grabbed off an option pass by Brennan early in the 
we could have gotten 
any lower than we 

final period, then the Irish combined 
were after the last play 

to thwart Flutie's last-gasp drive in Irish territory. A couple of freshmen made key plays in the final series, Mike Grif­
of that Air Force game, 
but you had the guts to 

fin sacking Flutie for a four-yard loss 
come back. 

and Troy Wilson knocking down Flutie's fourth-down pass attempt. "We had an all-out blitz on," said
Gerry Faust 

Irish defensive coordinator Jim Johnson of Boston College's final play. "We came with eight guys and covered with three. It was a gamble." 
The Irish were outgained-by 380 to 376 in total yards-for the first time all season. But it was the numbers on the scoreboard that prompted the traded carries the rest of the way until smiles in the Irish locker room. Faust 
Pinkett carried . the last three yards. 
even got a ride off the field on the Though Johnston's second consecutive 
shoulders of his players, more in recog­PAT try was blocked, Notre Dame led 
nition of the heat he had been taking
19-7. 
than anything else. Flutie needed just over a minute to 
"A lot of things don't go your wayrebound. He threw on first down to 
in life," Faust told the players in the fullback Bob Biestek for 42 yards, then 
dressing room. "But if you have faith, three plays later on third down found it's amazing how things work out. I Gerard Phelan over the middle on a 
don't think we could have gotten anymagnificent catch for six points. Flutie's 
lower than we were after the last playtwo-point pass for Brennan was off of that Air Force game, but you had 
target. · 
the guts to come back." The Irish inissed on three second­
Game balls went to defensive linehalf opportunities for additional points. 
coach Greg Blache-who would beA 43-yard bomb to Joe Howard on leaving to join the USFL JacksonvilleNotre Dame's second play of the sec­Bulls' staff-and to senior captainsond half got things started with a bang Kiel, Toran and John Mosley. Larry-but Pinkett was stopped for no gain Williams, a captain-elect for '84, on a fourth-down attempt from the thanked the senior class for their con­Boston College 16. The Eagles promptly tributions during the bowl trip, anddrove 85 yards the other direction ­Kiel suggested that the underclassmenagain using a 41-yard gain on a Flutie­use the win to get '84 off to a goodto-Brennan completion to eat up the start. It was a touching locker roombulk of the yards. Flutie's third touch­finale for a group of players who al­down pass, a three-yarder to tight end ready had seen ~heir share of emotionalDoug Gieselman, made it 19-18. The moments during an up-and-down cam­two-point throw to Gieselman was paign.
barely out of his reach, as Furjanic And if Bicknell's fishbowl at Bostonnearly got his hand on it. 
College wasn't quite as big or as visible"I decided we wouldn't try kicking as Faust's at Notre Dame, he certainlyany more," Bicknell said. "Brian (Wal­understood the difference. 
dron, the Eagle kicker) slipped in pre­game warmups, too, and we were slip­"It's a pivotal victory for them. I ping all day. It was just like we were don't want to be a savior 1(for Faust 
and the Irish), but I hope this win is
on an ice rink. On a normal night, good for his program." 
there's no question we send him out after those last two touchdowns." Oh, how it was. 
Boston College 6 6 6 0 18 
Notre Dame 12 0 0 19 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time ND BC BC-Brian Brennan 17 pass 
from Doug Flu tie 12:07 0 6 (Doug Waldron kick failed) Drive: 63 yards in seven plays in 2:53 with opening kickoff; Big Play: Doug Flutie pass to Brendan Murphy for 29 yards. 

NO-Allen Pinkett I run 4:24 
6 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 87 yards in 16 plays in 7:43 following Boston College kickoff; Big Play: Chris Smith run for 17 yards. 

Second Quarter NO-Alvin Miller 13 pass from Blair Kiel 11:49 13 
6 (Mike Johnston kick blocked) Drive: Six yards in four plays in I :02 following Mike Golic block of Boston College punt. 

NO-Allen Pinkett 3 run 8:19 19 6 (Mike Johnston kick blocked) Drive: 53 yards in six plays in 2:11 following Boston College punt; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Mark Bavaro for 20 yards. 
BC-Gerard Phelan 28 pass from Doug Flu tie 7:02 19 12 (Doug Flutie pass failed) Drive: 69 yards in four plays in I :08 following Notre Dame kickoff; Big Play: Doug Flutie pass to Bob Biestek for 42 yards. 
Third Quarter 
BC-Scott Gieselman 3 pass from Doug Flutie 7:20 19 18 (Doug Flutie pass failed) Drive: 85 yards in 10 plays in 4:00 following Notre Dame loss of ball on downs; Big Play: Doug Flutie pass to Brian Brennan for 41 yards. 
A--47,071 (38,228 turnstile count) 
Team Statistics ND BC 

First Downs 19 IS Rushing 12 6 Passing 7 9 Penalty 0 0 Rushing Attempts 54 29 Yards Rushing 253 126 Tackles-Yards Lost Rushing 7-28 8-33 Net Yards Rushing 225 93 Net Yards Passing lSI 287 Passes Attempted 19 38 Passes Completed 11 16 Had Intercepted I 2 Total Offensive Plays 73 67 Total Net Yards 376 380 Average Gain Per Play 5.14 5.66 Return Yards 10 0 Fumbles: Number-Lost 3-1 1..() Penalties: Number-Yards S-41 1-SS Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-3 1-0 Number of Punts-Yards 6-171 6-168 Average Per Punt 28.5 28.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-7 )..() Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 4-SS 4-83 Possession Time 36:02 23:58 Third-Down Conversions 4-15 6-18 Sacks 2-9 2-16 
Individual Statistics Notre Dame 

Rushing  All.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  28  116  s  Ill  2  20  
Chris Smith  18  104  0  104  0  17  
Mark Brooks  2  26  0  26  0  23  
Alvin Miller  I  7  0  7  0  7  
Blair Kiel  s  0  23  23  0  2  
Passing  All. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Blair Kiel  19  11  I  lSI  I  43  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Mark Bavaro  s  52  0  20  
Alvin Miller  3  31  I  14  
Milt Jackson  2  25  0  14  
Joe Howard  I  43  0  43  
Bo•ton College  
Rushing  All.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Troy Stradford  16  60  9  51  0  17  
Doug Flutie  s  42  10  32  0  37  
Jim Browne  4  13  0  13  0  6  
Bob Biestek  2  8  0  8  0  7  
Ken Bell  I  3  0  3  0  3  
Team  I  0  14  14  0  14  
Passing  All. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Doug Flutie  37  16  I  287  3  42  
Brian Brennan  I  0  I  0  0  0  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Brian Brennan  4  91  I  41  
Gerard Phelan  4  52  I  28  
Scott Gieselman Troy Stradford·  3 2  19 17  I 0  8 j 9  
Bob Biestek  I  42  0  42  
Kelvin Martin  I  36  0  36  
Brendan Murphy  I  30  0  30  

.53 

I 
:I ·I 
-I
'! 
:i 
I 
l 
l 
; 
,J ~ 
Notes on Notre Dame 
Irish Items: Football '83 
By JOHN HEISLER 

• 
Four different Notre Dame players earned AU-America mention in 1983. Sophomore ·tailback ALLEN PINKEIT was a first-team pick by both The Sporting News and Football News­as well as a second-team choice by both United Press International and the As­sociated Press. Junior offensive tackle LARRY WILLIAMS was a second­team pick by Football News. Named to the honorable mention list by the Asso­ciated Press were junior defensive end MIKE GOLIC and junior center MIKE KELLEY. Listed as "Almost All-Amer-· icans by Football News were junior split end JOE HOWARD, sophomore mid­dle linebacker TONY FURJANIC,. ju­nior strong safety JOE HOWARD and senior cornerback STACEY TORAN. 

• 
At the November 21 Notre Dame Football Banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, ALLEN PINKETT was honored as the Most Valuable Player for 1983. MIKE KELLEY was chosen the Outstanding Offensive Player, while MIKE GOLIC was chosen the Outstanding Defensive Player. AIL three awards were chosen by vote of the players, and the MVP award is presented annually by the Notre Dame National Monogram Club. 

• 
A trio of seniors -offensive tackle LARRY WILLIAMS, strong safety JOE JOHNSON and defensive end MIKE GOLIC-has been elected to serve as captains of the 1984 Notre Dame football team. Williams started nine straight games at offensive tackle for the Irish in '83 before torn ankle ligaments suffered in the Pittsburgh game prevented him from playing against Penn State and Air Force. The 6-6, 284-pounder from Santa Ana, Calif., also started 11 games for the Irish as a sophomore in '82. Johnson, a 6-2, 189-pounder from Fostoria, Ohio, made 50 tackles in 1983 (31 solo, 11 assists, eight first hits) plus four quar­terback sacks for 47 lost yards and four other tackles for minus yardage. He also intercepted one pass, caused three fumbles and recovered two others. Golic, a 6-5, 251-pounder from Willo­wick, Ohio, led Notre Dame's down linemen in tackles with 59 (26 solo, 21 assists, 12 first hits), the fourth-best · total on the· squad. He led Notre Dame in tackles for lost yardage with 10 and 



had four sacks. 
• 
Senior wide receiver MIKE FAV­ORITE was the recipient of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Scholar­Athlete Award. Favorite, a 3.202 stu­dent in accounting in the College of Business Administration, also received a $3,000 post-graduate scholarship from the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. The 6-4, 196-pounder from Park Forest South, III., caught eight passes in '83 for 123 yards. 

• 
Fifty-eight monograms were awarded to members of the 1983 Notre Dame football squad: 


SENIORS (17)-Jon Autry, Greg Bell, Chris!Brown, Mike Favorite, Greg Golic, Mike Johnston, Blair Kiel, Tim Marshall, Neil Maune, John Mosley, Tom Murphy, Rick Naylor, Mike Shiner, Kevin Smith, Daane Spielmaker, Stacey Toran and Jerry Weinle. 
JUNIORS (13) -Joe Bars, Brian Behmer, Mark Brooks, Robbie Finne­gan, Mike Gann, Mike Golic, Ricky Gray, Joe Howard, Joe Johnson, Mike Kelley, Kevin Kelly, Chris Smith and Larry Williams. 
SOPHOMORES (14) -Pat Ballage, Mark Bavaro, Dan Corsaro, Rick Di­Bernardo, Greg Dingens, Tom Doerger, Eric Dorsey, Tony Furjanic, Milt Jack­son, Van Pearcy, Mike Perrino, Allen Pinkett, Ron Plantz and Tim Scannell. 
FRESHMEN (14) -Byron Abra­ham, John Askin, Robert Banks, Steve Beuerlein, John Carney, Hiawatha Francisco, Mike Griffin, Alonzo J ef­ferson,: Wally Kleine, Mike Kovaleski, Steve Lawrence, Alvin Miller, Joel Wil­liams and Troy Wilson. 
Graduating seniors receiving service monograms were Jeff Banko, Chris Boerner, Doug Compton,i Tom Cush­ing, Jim Farmer, Steve Keane, Dave Meadows, Mike Viracola and Mike Walsh. 
• Sophomore middle linebacker TONY FURJANIC playedt more min­utes than any other Notre Dame player in 1983 with his final 318:22 total. Here's a complete' listing of playing times for every Irish player who saw any action in '83: 
OFFENSIVE LINEMEN -Mike Kelley 271:28, Neil Maune 259:04, Mike Perrino 210:28, Larry Williams 208:11, Tim Scannell 191:41, Tom Doerger 96:50, Mike Shiner 93:40, Greg Golic 66:48, Jerry Weinle 41:08, Ron Plantz 34:06, John Askin 31:29, Shawn Heffern 23:02, Marty Roddy 16:10, Robbie Finnegan 15:56, Tony Piccin 10:17, Joe Fazio 9:58, Jim Farmer :41. 
RECEIVERS-Mark Bavaro 250:05, Joe Howaro 227:02, Milt Jackson 211:45, Alvin Miller 56:27, Brian Behmer 56:13, Mike Favorite 53:49, Alonzo Jefferson 37:47, Joel Williams 31:52, Van Pearcy 25:29, Ricky Gray 10:16, Mike Haywood 9:03, Pat Cusack :45. 
OFFENSIVE BACKS -Allen Pink­ett 229:45, Chris Smith 194:52, Steve Beuerlein 194:20, Mark Brooks 122:17, Blair Kiel 104:19, Hiawatha Francisco 58:34, Greg Bell 37:52, Dave Machtolf 24:11, Byron Abraham 12:12, Lester Flemons 11:46, Kevin Smith 10:02, Ray Carter 7:08, Scott Grooms 6:45, Tom Cushing 3:29. 
DEFENSIVE LINEMEN -Mike Golic 294:41, Mike Gann 274:22, Greg Dingens 174:08, Mike Griffin 159:00, Jon Autry 149:21, Eric Dorsey 133:08, Tim Marshall 61:30, Wally Kleine 25:18, Jay Underwood :47, Steve White :47, Steve Keane :17, Tom Roggeman :17. 
LINEBACKERS -Tony Furjanic, 318:22, Rick Naylor 256:48, Mike Ko­valeski 179:32, Robert Banks 74:08, Rick DiBernardo 73:18, Joe Bars 66:09, Tom Murphy 50:23, Dave Butler 7:46, John McCabe 5: 17, Dan Tanczos :3 6. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS-Pat Ballage 312:57, Chris Brown 303:27, Joe John­son 275:57, Stacey Toran 167:51, Troy Wilson 153:19, Daane Spielmaker 49:47, Steve Lawrence 37:20, John Mosley 35:52, Dan Corsaro 16:39, Scott Rogers made one specialty-team appear­ance. 
SPECIALISTS-Kevin Kelly 18:07, Mike Johnston 3:42, Dave Meadows 
2: 16, John Carney 2: 11, Mike Viracola :55. 
• 
Post-season bowl participation by Irish players included appearances by CHRIS BROWN (Japan Bowl), STACEY TORAN (Japan Bowl), GREG BELL (Japan Bowl) and RICK NAYLOR (East-West Shrine Game). 

• 
Here is where Notre Dame fin­ished as a team in the final NCAA statistical rankings: 17th in rushing of­fense (238.8 yards per game), 45th in passing offense (189.6 yards per game), 9th in total offense (428.5 yards per game), tied for 21st in scoring offense 


(27.0 points per game), 29th in rushing defense (133.9 yards per game), 14th in pass defense (152.8 yards per game), 14th in total defense (286.7 yards per game) and 13th in scoring defense (14.5 points per game). Notre Dame's total offense average is its best since 1977; its passing offense average is its best since 1979; its scoring offense figure is its best since 1977. Notre Dame's top individual rankings came from ALLEN PINKETT who stood 5th in rushing 
(126.7 yards per game), 4th in scoring 
(1 0.0 points per game) and 6th in all­purpose running (152.9 yards per game, including rushing, receiving and punt and kickoff return yardage). Pink­ett's 18 touchdowns in '83 were sur­passed only by the 29 notched by Ne­braska's Mike Rozier and the 20 by Ohio State's Keith Byars. The only players ranking above Pinkett in rushing were Rozier (179.0 yards per game), Western Michigan's Shawn Faulkner (151.6), Navy's Napoleon McCallum 

(144.3) and Central Michigan's Curtis Adams (130.1). Other Irish rankings in­cluded Pinkett 76th in total offense (132.1), BLAIR KIEL 60th in punting (39.6), JOE HOWARD 53rd in punt returns (7.2), MIKE JOHNSTON tied for 39th in field goals (1.09) and tied for 45th in scoring (6.3). 
• 
Notre Dame's 1983 schedule ranked as the 50th most difficult in the nation, according to final NCAA stand­ings. Notre Dame's '83 opponents com­piled a 50-49-5 record (.504) when not playing the Irish. Auburn had the most challenging regular-season schedule in '83, its opponents going 70-31-3 for a .6875 mark. The only Irish opponents in the top 20 were Penn State third at 64-38-1 (.626) and Purdue 15th at 52-48-0 (.5636). In '83, Notre Dame faced four teams that played in bowl games -national champion Miami (beat Nebraska in Orange), Pittsburgh (lost to Ohio State in Fiesta), Penn State (beat Washington in Aloha) and Air Force (beat Ole Miss in Indepen­dence). Notre Dame's 1984 schedule adds Missouri (7-5 after losing to BYU in Holiday Bowl) and LSU (4-7) ­while dropping Army (2-9) and Pitts­burgh (8-3-1 after losing to Ohio State in Fiesta Bowl). The Pitt series takes a two-year break in '84 and '85 before the two teams resume play on a regular basis again starting in '86. Four of Notre Dame's 11 '84 opponents had winning records in '83 -with the Irish slated to face Purdue (3-7-1), Michigan State (4-6-1), Colorado (4-7), Missouri (7-5), Miami (11-1), Air Force (10-2), South Carolina (5-6), LSU (4-7), Navy (3-8), Penn State (8-4-1) and USC (4-6-1). 

• 
Sophomore tailback ALLEN PINKETT was named the Associated Press Midwest Player of the Week on offense for his performance October 22 against USC. Pinkett that afternoon rushed 21 times for 122 yards and three touchdowns, caught two passes for 10 yards and completed a 59-yard pass to Mark Bavaro to set up Notre Dame's first touchdown. He shared the award that week with Dwight Beverly of Illinois. Notre Dame received three $1,000 scholarships in the names of STEVE BEUERLEIN and ALLEN PINKETT for their performances in network televised games. Beuerlein was chosen the Notre Dame MVP by CBS against Miami after coming off the bench to complete 13 of 23 passes for 145 yards in the 20-0 loss. Pinkett was chosen by CBS against Pittsburgh after 



rushing 22 ·.times for 82 yards and scor­ing Notre Dame's orily touchdown on a :riine-_yard pass Jrom Blair Kiel, fol­lowed lqy ;a •two-:point conversion pass from Kiel, :in .the 21-16 loss. Pinkett also \Was .chosen 'qy ABC .against Air Force :after .rushing 27 times for 197 yards and one touchdown and catching five passes for 93 yards in the 23-22 loss. 
• Sophomore defensive tackle GREG DINGENS was a second-team choice on the 1983 Academic All-America team chosen by members of CoSIDA (College Sports Information Directors of America). Dingens, who eventually hopes to attend medical school, owns a 
3.703 _grade average as a pre-profes­sional·m~jor in ;the College of Arts and Letters. 
• -For .the second straight year, the University ·.of Notre Dame was the re­cipient of 'the Academic Achievement Award ·sponsored by the Touchdown Club of 'Memphis in association with the College Football Association. Notre Dame won the award because it had the highest graduation rate of all CFA member schools among members of its football team. The '83 award was based on players entering on financial aid in the fall .of 197,7, and 23 of 29 (79.3 percent) :graduated within five years, the ·best figure ·among the 60 CFA in­stitutions. Notre Dame also won the award .in '82 because 84 percent of the freshmen who entered on scholarship in '7 6 received their degree. Twenty-six members . of ~that .freshman class com­pleted.their•four years of eligibility, and all'26Jreceived.their degrees. Duke Uni­versity ·won the award in '81, the first year :it·was •presented. 
<e ,:ALUEN .PINKETT set a Notre Dame single-season record in 1983 with his .nine 1 00-yard games, bettering the previous high ·of seven by Vagas Fer­guson in 1979. He also set a mark with five consecutive 100-yard games (Colo­rado, South Carolina, Army, USC and Navy), topping Jim Stone's string of four in 1980. He set a record for most touchdowns scored in a season with 18 (16 rushing, two receiving), topping Ferguson's 17 in '79. He also set a record for most points scored in a season with 110 (18 touchdowns, one two-point conversion), beating Red Salmon's total of 104 in 1903. His 1;682 .all7purpose yards in '83 (1,394 rushing, ~288 receiving) broke Bob· Gladieux's single-season record of 1,512 setin '68. His 1,397 rushing yards rank second :on the single-season chart, be­hind orily if'erguson's 1,437 in '79. The only other 1,000-yard-plus seasons were by Ferguson (1,192 in '78) and AI Hunter (1,058 in '76). Pinkett's 217 yards on the ground against Penn State and his 197 yards versus Air Force 
mark the best back-to-hack rushing ef­forts by a single player in Notre Dame history. His 11 career 100-yard games rank second behind Ferguson's 13. He now stands ninth on the all-time Notre Dame ground gaining chart with 1 ,926 yards in his two seasons. Pinkett's 16 rushing touchdowns in '83 were one short of Ferguson's season mark of 17 set in '79. 
• Placekicker MIKE JOHNSTON established a career record for field­goal percentage by hitting 31 of his 43 career attempts for a .720 mark, best among all Irish kickers with 20 or more attempts. He also set a career per­centage high for extra points by con­verting 53 of 54 for a .981 mark. John­ston's 31 career field goals rank him second on the career list behind Dave Reeve's 39 in '74-'77. His 43 attempts rank second on that career list behind Reeve's 64. His 12 field goals in '83 rank fifth on the season list; he set the record with 19 in '82. Johnston's 21 at­tempts in '83 rank third on the single­season chart, with Harry Oliver holding that record with 23 in '80. His .871 extra-point percentage (33 of 34) in '83 ranks second on the single-season list behind Bob Thomas' perfect 34-of-34 mark in '72. Johnston's 53 consecutive extra points rank second on the career list behind T~omas' 62 straight between 
11-66-71 and 10-20-73. His 69 points by kicking in '83 (12 FGs, 33 PATs) rank fifth on the season list; he set the record with 7 6 in '82. 
• Quarterback/ punter BLAIR KIEL now· owns the Notre Dame career rec­ord for pass attempts with 609. His 297 career completions rank second only to Terry Hanratty's 304 in '66-'68. Kiel has punted more times (259) and for more yardage {10,534) than anyone else in Irish history. Joe Restic's 209 punts for 8,409 yards in '75-'78 were the previous marks. Kiel's 40.67-yard 
punting average ranks second on the career list behind Bill Shakespeare's 
40.71 figure in '33-'35. His 774 total offense attempts rank second on the career chart behind Joe Theismann's 807 in '68-'70. His 3,814 total offense yards rank sixth on the career list; Theismann leads that one, too, with 5,432 yards. Kiel's .05255 interception percentage (32 of 609) ranks fourth on the interception avoidance chart behind John Huarte's leading mark of .0431 (11 of 255) in '62-'64. Kiel's 3,650 passing yards rank fourth on the career list behind Theismann's 4,411. 
• 
Split end JOE HOWARD stands fifth on Notre Dame's all-time receiving chart with 72 catches for 1,451 yards. He needs 48 receptions in his final season of play to catch Tony Hunter, who is fourth with 120 grabs. Tom Gatewood tops the list with 157 career catches. Howard boasts a career yards­per-catch figure of 20.5-so he's within striking distance of Kris Haines' career record of 21.5. He has led the Irish in pass receiving yards each of the last three years, though he has never led the team in receptions in any of those seasons. 

• 
ALLEN PINKEIT was voted Notre Dame's outstanding offensive player in the 19-18 Liberty Bowl win over Boston College. Pinkett led all rushers with 111 yards on 28 carries and scored on runs of one and three yards. TONY FURJANIC was voted Notre Dame's outstanding defensive player. He was credited with seven tackles, made two other tackles for lost yardage, deflected one pass and inter­cepted another Doug Flutie pass on the first play of the second quarter. 

• 
Notre Dame finished 23rd among all Division I teams in per-game atten­dance during the 1983 season. A total of 295,375 fans saw the five Irish home games, for a consistent average of 59,075 per game. 



'84 Preview 
The Horses Are There 
By JOHN HEISLER Forget the disappointments. Forget the close calls and near-misses. 
Forget about the big ones against the USCs and the Penn States that got away. Forget about the bounces that never seemed to go Notre Dame's direction. 
Forget .all that has happened the last three years -and consider the idea that Notre Dame should be a very good football team in 1984. 
It's .all on paper, no different than it has been the last three seasons. Gerry Faust-though he won't be making any grand pre~ictions -is even more convinced that this finally will be the year his Irish accomplish great things. 
Faust knows that even with his opti­mism, the patience of Irish followers is not currently at its highest level. Gerry, in fact, agrees with most of those fans. He wants to win and he doesn't want to wait much longer to do it. The lessons he has learned haven?t been easy to stomach. But~ if the changes the Irish made in the Liberty Bowl (especially the split-back alignment and increased 
use  of  the  fullback)  are  indications,  
then  Faust  and  his  staff  do  indeed  
realize  some  of  the  adjustments  re­ 
maining to be made.  

Be realistic about it. Gerry Faust has no intention of looking back. His career has been too full of success to consider anything else. He knows that his 17 victories are not enough and his 15 losses are too many. He understands all of that better than anyone. He also knows that the odds are on his side. He knows, after three years, how well he has recruited compared to people like Penn State and Michigan and USC­the big teams the Irish battle year in and year out. He knows how capable his team is of winning. He knows the oddsmakers would suggest ifs time things started to fall his way. 

"I know we haven't done as well the last few years as Notre Dame teams are expected to do," Faust says. "There are a lot of different reasons for it, but right now~ there's nothing anyone can say. We've got to go out this fall and 


Captain Joe Johnson hopes to help lift the Irish to new heights in 1984. 
win football games. That's the only way to tum it around." 
If Faust had any problems with the transition from the Dan Devine regime to the Faust era, those problems now are over. Every player on the '84 Notre Dame roster will have been recruited personally by Gerry Faust. Freshman classes since Faust took over ·have fea­tured much more speed and quickness than in previous administrations -and
I 
,I that difference should be felt even more in '84.. Here are the numbers Faust has on his side: 
• 
Notre Dame will boast 43 re­turning lettermen..:....__ compared to 17 lost-for '84..Those 43 include line­backer Mike Larkin and flanker Mike Haywood, neither of whom lettered iq. '83 because of injuries after holding down starting positions in '82. 

• 
Of the 39 players who saw 50 or more minutes of playing time in '83, 28 of them will be back. That includes 15 of 20 on offense and 13 of 19 on defense. 

• 
Of the 51 players who saw action against Boston College in the '83 Lib­erty Bowl, 37 will be back for the Irish in '84. That includes 19 of 25 on of­fense, 16 of 23 on defense and two of three specialists. 


I 
I • · Of the 11 Irish offensive starters
; I in the Liberty Bowl, eight return. That doesn't include quarterback Steve Beuer­lein and offensive tackle Larry Williams 
iI -neither of .whom started the Liberty Bowl though they were regulars most of the year. The only season-long of­fensive starter lost is guard Neil Maune. 
i • Of the 11 defensive starters in the Liberty Bowl, seven will be back. The four graduating seniors are nose tackle ·
I 
Jon Autry, strong linebacker Rick~ 
Naylor, cornerback Stacey Toran and safety Chris Brown. 
• Though the Irish will have the benefit of a seasoned senior class, the seven most likely senior starters will be captains Joe Johnson, Mike Golic and Larry Williams plus center Mike Kelley, split end Joe Howard, fullback Chris Smith and defensive tackle Mike Gann. That means underclassmen again will play key roles on the '84 squad. If the last three freshman classes Faust has brought to campus are as good as the experts have suggested, their full effect should be felt this fall. Those players will comprise ihe sophomore, junior and senior classes on the '84 squad. 
Does it all sound good? Of course it does. Itstarts with a deliciously-different tailback named Allen Pinkett who'll be one of the odds-on favorites for the Reisman Trophy each of the next two seasons. 
He already has proven himself as talented as any running back ever to 
58 

wear the Notre Dame colors. He al­ready holds a fistful of individual rec­ords, and he needs to rush for an aver­age of only 70 yards per game over the next two seasons to become Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher. Pre­suming he remains healthy, that shouldn't be difficult considering he gained 100 yards or more in 10 of 12 games in 1983. 
Pinkett is just as impressive off the field as a management information sys­tems major emphasizing computers. He's classy, he's just cocky enough to make it work-and he's got all the right moves. He's even got a bit of Joe Theismann in him in his ability to handle and enjoy media interviews. That, in itself, will help him as much as anything in his Reisman bid. 
As one longtime Notre Dame ob­server noted recently, Pinkett might just be the best all-around representa­tive of Notre Dame athletics the Irish have ever had. That's saying something. 
Superlatives aside, Pinkett isn't even the whole show in the Irish backfield. As Liberty Bowl watchers should have noted, senior fullback Chris Smith might be as good an athlete as Pinkett is. Smith had his first 1 00-yard game against Boston College, and if anyone enjoyed that as much as Smith did it was Pinkett. Every yard that Smith and sidekick Mark Brooks gain in '84 will make it that much easier for Pinkett to maneuver. 
Sophomore Hiawatha Francisco will be Pinkett's main helper along with Alonzo Jefferson. Injury-plagued tail­back Greg Bell (he graduated a week before the Liberty Bowl) -like de­fensive tackle Tim Marshall-has one year of eligibility remaining but does not plan to utilize it. 
Sophomore Steve Beuerlein is Notre Dame's quarterback of the future. He started the last eight games of the reg­ular season and completed 27 more passes than Blair Kiel did as a fresh­man for nearly twice as many yards (Kiel's 531 to Beuerlein's 1,061). Though Beuerlein had his ups and downs late in the year against Pittsburgh and Air Force, his Penn State performance (14 of 20 for 257 yards) proved that when the Irish decide to put the ball in the air he is more than capable of handling that task. The Irish coaches liked him early because of his field vision, and that aspect of his game only ..can improve with experience. Also on hand will be senior Scott Grooms and second-year man Joe Felitsky, neither of whom were consistently healthy in '83. Grooms is coming off a broken collarbone in the '83 Purdue opener. Felitsky came in less than 100 percent because of previous knee problems and 
emergency summer intestinal surgery ­but he rebounded to work impressively with the prep team offense late in the campaign. 

Up front on offense, it's business as usual. There are more than enough re­turnees in the 6-5, 270-pound range to make sure Pinkett has blockers to hide behind on his excursions. Start with 6-6, 284-pound Larry Williams at tackle, then add 6-5, 269-pound senior Mike Kelley (Notre Dame's offensive MVP in '83) at center; 6-5, 271-pound junior Mike Perrino at the other tackle and 6-4, 270-pound junior Tim Scannell at one guard. Look for 6-5, 272-pound Tom Doerger to fill Maune's shoes at the other guard position. 
Multi-sport standout Joe Howard­who proved his size is no handicap in basketball, either-headlines the re­turning targets for Beuerlein's passes. Howard has led the Irish in pass receiv­ing yards each of the last three years and already has 72 career catches, .fifth on the all-time Irish list. He'll be flanked by vastly-improved junior Milt Jackson and sophomore Alvin Miller, whose Liberty Bowl' effort (three catches for 41 yards and a touchdown) should be a hint of things to come. Tight end is in the more-than-capable hands of junior Mark Bavaro, who has proved his pass­catching and blocking combined just might make him a match for the likes of Dave Casper and Ken MacAfee. 
If the Irish have questions offensively, they revolve around the kicking game. Punter Blair Kiel will graduate after handling those chores for four years. There is no successor in line. Veteran Mike Johnston also is gone after two highly-successful placekicking seasons. His place will be taken by either sopho­more John Carney, the Irish long-dis­tance kickoff man in '83, or junior Hal Von Wyl. ' 
Eight of Notre Dame's 17 lost letter­winners are on the defensive side of the ball, but there are more than enough familiar names for Irish fans to con­sider. 
Senior Mike Golic, Notre Dame's '83 
defensive MVP and a captain-elect for 
'84, will anchor the front wall after 
earning honorable mention All-America 
honors as a junior. Tackles Mike Gann, 
Greg Dingens, Eric Dorsey, Mike Grif­
fin and Wally Kleine all will lend a 
hand at those three spots-with all but 
Kleine ·boasting past starting assign­
ments. Gann is a two-season starter, 
while Dorsey and Ding ens· alternated ·at 
contain tackle much of the year-and 
Griffin merited four st.arting nods of his 
own as a rookie. 

Junior Rick DiBernardo will have a shot at Rick Naylor's vacated starting job at strongside linebacker. Sophomore Robert Banks proved himself capable of playing at either end or on the strong 

side as a first-year defender. Trying to decide whom to play at the two inside linebacker positions will be a tough task for Faust and position coach George Kelly. One of the obvious incumbents is junior middle linebacker Tony Furjanic. All he did in '83 was record twice as many tackles as any other Irish player. Then there is sopho­more Mike Kovaleski, who became the first rookie in memory to start as a freshman at linebacker. And don't for­get Mike Larkin, who had to sit out his entire junior season in '83 because of a broken arm. He quite likely is as fast a linebacker as the Irish have had on their roster. Whatever happens there, it's something of a pleasant dilemma for Faust and Kelly. There will be more changes in the Notre Dame secondary than any area on the team, thanks to both graduation and position switches. Gone are four­year cornerback starter Stacey Toran along with safety Chris Brown. Also missing will be specialty-team captain John Mosley and Daane Spielmaker, both of whom have been valuable sec­ondary reserves in recent seasons. Senior strong safety Joe Johnson, an expert at blitzing where his amazing quickness is so apparent, will be one of the best in the country at his position. He'll be supported by junior Pat Bal­lage, a \Starter in every game at weak­side cornerback last fall. Other possible starters could be sophomores Troy Wilson or Steve Lawrence, each of whom opened at least once in '83­Wilson at cornerback when Toran was _injured and Lawrence at safety. New names in the secondary, thanks to posi­tion changes, will be juniors Mike Hay­wood and Van Pearcy. Haywood sat out most of the '83 season with a torn thigh muscle after starting the final five games of .the '82 campaign at flanker. Pearcy has been a backup wide re­ceiver each of the last two seasons, though he displayed his tackling ex­pertise the last half of the past season as a member of the kickoff squad. Hay­
wood will be a candidate at cornerback, while Pearcy will try his hand at safety. There will be a new look to the Notre 
Dame defensive coaching staff, thanks 
to the loss of a pair of coaches to the 
United States Football League (USFL). 
Defensive end/strongside linebacker 
coach Greg Blache announced soon 
after the regular season ended that he 
planned to join the staff of the Jackson­
ville Bulls following Notre Dame's Lib­
erty Bowl date. Defensive coordinator 
and second~ry coach Jim Johnson took 
the defensive coordinator job with the 
Oklahoma Outlaws on January 12. Both 
coaches left to join former coaching as­
sociates-Blache working under Lindy 
Infante (they coached together at Tu­
lane) at Jacksonville and Johnson join­ing head coach Woody Widenhofer (they played together at Missouri) in Oklahoma. 
Taking Blache's position is 42-year­old Bishop Harris, outside linebacker coach the last four seasons at LSU. He had similar experience for three seasons at North Carolina State and four years at Duke, in addition to nine years of coaching at the high school level in North Carolina. Bishop played defensive back at North Carolina Central and went on to earn a master's degree from Duke. 
In a nutshell, that's an up-to-date look at the football scene heading into spring practice. There are plenty of football players around who can run and jump and throw and catch and block and tackle. But can they put things together to finish better than 5-6, 6-4-1 or 7-5? That's the $64,000 queS­tion on the minds of all those who fol­low Notre Dame football. If Gerry Faust had the answer, he probably would sleep that much easier from now until September. 
"People have always talked about the magic of Notre Dame football," Faust says. "It was the kind of thing that gave you an advantage when other teams came into Notre Dame Stadium because it took the other players a whole quar­ter to realize you put your pants on the same way they did. 
"We started to get a little bit of that the way we played against Colorado and South Carolina and Army and even USC last year. We came out and knocked them off the line and domi­nated the game from the very first play so there was no question who was going to win. I think we had a sense of that feeling against Boston College, even as good as they were. 
"What we've got to do is play that way for 11 weeks. If we're capable of dominating a football game, we've got to convince ourselves that the only thing to do is play that way all year long. That'll do it for us. 
"We want to get that magic back again. I kind of like that idea." Irish fans do, too. 
"i.j 

I.....~L~
'83 Notre Dame Stats 4ft 
(Won 6, Lost 5-Home 2-3, Away 4-2) 

TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP RUSHING G TC Yds. Avg. TD Lg. INTERCEPTION RETURNS 
Total Offense Yards .•••••.•• 4713 3154 Pinkett ..... 11 252 1394 5.5 16 53 No. Yds. Avg. TD LG Total Plays ............... 799 736 Smith ...... 11 77 421 5.5 1 37 Naylor ....... 3 24 8.0 0 22 Yards per Play ............ 5.9 4.3 Francisco ... 11 38 194 5.1 0 33 Wilson ....... 2 43 21.5 0 22 Yards per Game ........... 428.5 286.7 Brooks ..... 11 35 180 5.1 2 31 Brown ....... 2 24 12.0 0 24 
Rushing Yards .••••...••••.• 2627 1473 Bell ........ 5 37 169 4.6 4 50 Furjanic ...... 2 7 3.5 0 7 Attempts ................. 532 454 Machtolf.... 3 14 78 5.6 0 13 Lawrence ..... 1 43 43.0 0 43 Yards per Rush ........... 4.9 3.2 Howard .... 11 4 61 15.2 0 30 Johnson ...... 1 6 6.0 0 6 Yards per Game ........... 238.8 133.9 Flemons .... 2 13 52 4.0 0 34 Kovaleski ..... 1 5 5.0 0 5 
Passing Yards .............. 2086 1681 Grooms..... 1 2 33 16.5 0 25 Dingens ...... 1 0 0.0 0 0 Attempts................. 267 282 Abraham ... 10 13 32 2.5 1 11 Ballage ....... 1 0 0.0 0 0 Completions.............. 143 149 Miller ...... 11 1 19 19.0 0 19 
Notre Dame .. 14 152 10.9 0 43
Had Intercepted........... 13 14 Carter ...... 1 2 9 4.5 0 9 
Opponent .... 13 119 9.2 0 42
Completion Percentage .... .536 .528 Jackson..... 11 1 1 1.0 0 1 Touchdown Passes ........ 12 10 Kiel ........ 11 19 -8 -0.4 1 7 Yards per Attempt. ........ 7.8 6.0 Beuerlein ... 10 23 -9 -0.4 0 19 Yards per Completion...... 14.6 11.3 TACKLES s FHAST TOT. FC FR Yards per Game ........... 189.6 152.8 Notre Dame 11 532 2627 4.9 25 53 Furjanic ...... 45 48 49 142 4 1 
Punting Yards .............. 1965 2842 Opponent 11 454 1473 3.2 10 42 Naylor ....... 26 21 24 71 0 0 Number of Punts .......... 50 66 Kovaleski ..... 19 27 16 62 2 0 Average Punt ............. 39.3 43.1 Golic ........ 26 12 21 59 0 2 Had Blocked ............. 0 0 PASSING G No. Cmp. Pet. Int. Yds.TD Ballage ....... 37 6 11 55 1 1 
Punt Return Yards .......... 255 123 Beuerlein ... 10 145 75 .517 6 1061 4 Gann ........ 20 15 17 52 1 0 Number of Returns ........ 39 19 
Kiel ....... 11 115 64 .557 7 910 7 Johnson ...... 31 8 11 50 3 2 Average Return ........... 6.5 6.5 Pinkett .... 11 1 1 1.000 0 59 0 Brown ....... 30 8 8 46 2 0 Kickoff Return Yards ........ 454 505 Howard .... 11 1 1 1.000 0 29 1 Autry ........ 14 9 10 33 1 1 26 25
Number of Returns ........ Smith ...... 10 2 1 .500 0 15 0 Dingens ...... 16 3 8 . 27 1 0 Average Return ........... 17.5 20.2 Cushing .... 1 1 1 1.000 0 12 0 Griffin ....... 5 14 4 23 0 0 
Interception Return Yards .... 152 119 Grooms .... 1 2 0 0.000 0 0 0 Toran ........ 16 3 4 23 0 0 Number of Interceptions ... 14 13 Bars ......... 4 9 7 20 0 0 Average Return ........... 10.9 9.2 
Notre Dame 11 267 143 .536 13 2086 12 Dorsey ....... 9 6 4 19 0 0 Number of Penalties ......... 75 64 
Opponent 11 282 149 .528 14 1681 10 Wilson ....... 9 1 8 18 0 1 Penalty Yards ............ 756 551 Banks ........ 4 8 3 15 0 0 
Fumbles (Lost) ............ . 20(8) 24(10) RECEIVING G PC Yds. Avg. TD LG DiBernardo ... 5 4 5 14 0 0 Yards Returned ........... 0 0 
Pinkett. ...... 11 28 288 10.3 2 59 Marshall ..... 3 2 5 10 0 1 
Total First Downs ........... 241 186 Howard ...... 11 27 464 17.2 2 67 Murphy ...... 1 4 3 8 0 0 By Rushing ............... 133 84 Jackson ...... 11 23 438 19.0 3 61 ·Lawrence ..... 3 0 4 7 0 1 By Passing ............... 95 87 Bavaro ....... 11 23 376 16.3 3 59 Kleine ........ 4 1 0 5 1 0 By Penalty ............... 13 15 Smith ........ 11 13 142 10.9 1 26 Spielmaker ... 1 1 2 4 1 0 
Third Down Conversions ..... 80/165 59/162 Favorite ...... 10 8 123 15.4 0 18 Butler ........ 1 0 3 -4 0 0 
Percentage ............... .485 .364 Bell .......... 5 6 65 10.8 1 23 McCabe ...... 0 3 0 3 0 0 Possession Time ............ 337:53 322:07 Francisco ..... 10 5 51 10.2 0 15 Mosley ....... 0 1 1 2 0 0 Minutes per Game ......... 30:43 29:17 Jefferson ..... 11 3 47 15.7 0 16 Corsaro ...... · 1 0 0 1 0 0 
Miller ........ 11 2 43 21.5 0 25 White ........ 1 0 0 1 0 0 SCORE BY QUARTERS Brooks ....... 11 2 14 7.0 0 11 Notre Dame 96 65 74 62-297 Abraham ..... 10 1 17 17.0 0 17 Opponent . . .. . . .. . .. 34 44 31 50 -159 Machtolf ..... 3 1 12 12.0 0 12 Passes Broken Up: Ballage 6, Brown 6, Furjanic 
Williams ..... 5 1 6 6.0 0 6 4, Kovaleski 4, Dingens 4, Johnson 3, DiBernar-TEAM SCORING ND OPP do 2, Gann 2, Naylor 2, Lawrence 2, Toran 1, Total Points ................ 297 159 Golic 1, Marshall 1, Dorsey 1, Wilson 1,
Notre Dame .. 11 143 2086 14.6 12 67 

Average ..... : ........... 27.0 14.5 Opponent .... 11 149 1681 11.3 10 81 Spielmaker 1 . 
Touchdowns ............... 37 20 Quarterback Sacks: Gann 6-54, Johnson 4-47, By Rushing ............... 25 10 Golic 4-35, Autry 4-22, Dorsey 3-17, Furjanic
PUNTING G No. Yds. Avg. LP 

ByPassing ............... 12 10 2-11, Kleine 1-10, Spielmaker 1-9, Kovaleski 1-8,
Kiel .......... 11 43 1704 39.6 60 

By Returns ............... 0 0 Naylor 1-8, Dingens 1-6
Viracola ...... 2 4 136 34.0 47 

Tackles for Loss: Golic 10-28, Dingens 5-14,
By Recovery .............. 0 0 
Meadows ..... 4 3 125 41.7 ~3

Field Goals (Made-Att.) ...... 12/21 8/ 9 Johnson 4-23, Autry 3-11, Gann 3-11, Furjanic 
Safeties .................... 2 0 Notre Dame .. 11 50 1965 39.3 60 3-5, Ballage 2-4, Kovaleski 2-4, DiBernardo 2-3, PAT-Kick .............. 33/34 13/16 Opponent .... 11 66 2842 43.1 71 Dorsey 2-3, Wilson 1-24, Banks 1-8, Kleine 1-3, PAT-Run ............... 0/ 1 112 White 1-2, Naylor 1-2, Griffin 1-1 
PAT-Pass .............. 112 0/ 2 
PUNT RETURNS No. Yds. Avg. TD LG S-solo tackles, FH-first hit, Ast.-assisted tackles, Howard ...... 28 202 7.2 0 27 Tot.-total tackles, FC-fumbles caused, FR-Bell .......... 10 55 5.5 0 13 fumbles recovered SCORING GTD PAT R-PA S FG TP Jefferson ..... 1 -2 -2.0 0 0 
Pinkett .... 11 18 01 0. 111 0 0/ 0 110 
Notre Dame .. 39 255 6.5 0 27

Johnston .. 11 0 33/34 0/0 0 12/21 69 
Opponent .... 19 123 6.5 0 30

Bell ....... 5 5 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 30 Bavaro .... 11 3 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 18 
KICKOFF RETURNS

Jackson ... 11 3 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 18 
No. Yds. Avg. TD LGBrooks .... 11 2 01 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 

Jefferson ..... 10 174 17.4 0 31

Smith ..... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 
Miller ........ 7 138 19.7 0 30

Howard ... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 12 
Bell .......... 5 108 21.6 0 36

Kiel. ...... 11 . 1 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 6 
Jackson ...... 2 30 15.0 0 16

Abraham .. 10 1 0/ 0 0/0 0 0/ 0 6 
Howard ...... 1 7 7.0 0 7

Team ..... 11 0 0/ 0. 0/0 2 0/ 0 4 
Mosley ....... 1 -3 -3.0 0 0 

Notre Dame 11 37 33/34 113 2 12/21 297 Notre Dame .. 26 454 17.5 0 36 Opponent 11 20 13/16 ·114 0 8/ 9 159 Opponent .... 25 505 20.2 0 58 


TEST uouR IQ"·IQ* From the Springfield Rifle to the Coronary Kid, Notre Dame 
1 I T~ • has produced a bumper crop of all-star quarterbacks. They've led the Irish to national championships, earned the Heisman trophy, gone on to Super Bowl victory. Some of these quarterback heros are shown here. But how many can you identify without peeking at the answers on page 1? 




