—a-^ 
3"-'^­
Cb 

Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
D15Ce-9VASl-5£mP6R-VlCTVR\/S-• VIVG-QVASI-CRAS-MOieiTURV/S­
VOL. XLIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER II, 191 = No., 14. 
The Team. 
BY EUGENE MCBRIDE. 
"TH E season is o'er and the Team home once more From fields where they've fought and they've won And they've all crept away in the old modest way. To talk o'er the deeds they have done. 
( 

No thund'rous applause, or def'ning hurrah's They strove with the best in the South andthe West, Were waiting them when they returned. In the East they repaid an old score. . \ , .­In modest affright, they came in- the night, In manner so true, the old Gold and Blue. . ^ . And shrank from the praise they had earned. They raised to the prestige of yore. . ' 
And it oughtn't to count—these scores that they mount Or yet that they lost but one game— The one thing that ought, is the fact that they fought To the finish for old Notre Dame. 
Well, we didn't turn out "with deafening shout" . But we'll bet our hand that they understand. As the newspapers usu'Uy quotes. As they grasp ev'ry loyal old palm; We came to them then, and chuckled:—"Well, men I Each yell that we raise is a paen of praise, And then something rose in our throats. ' And ev'ry hand-clasp is a psalm. 
For 'twould be the same, if they'd lost every game. If never a laurel they'd won. Their Mother at home would smile from her Dome, On the deeds of .each warrior son. ' 
2IO THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Varsity of Other Days. 
The tired old world moves on apace, and the wand of progress rests with the same easy familiarity upon the sturdy shoulder of the football hero, as it does upon the motor car, the aeroplane and the telephone. All former models are giving way to new and better ones. Notre Dame's football history is a chronicle of glorious achievement, yet there are those little details that compel a smile that often trespasses upon the expansion allotted to a broad grin. Imagine, if you can, the Michigan team of 1915 giving Notre Dame a few minutes of preliminary practice before 

staging the regular clash. You smile broadly, no doubt, and with excellent reason. Yet that is what the JMichigan Varsity of 'S6 had to do before Notre Dame's neoph}i:e eleven felt that it knew enough about the game to proceed with the contest. After watching the visitors play a few minutes, the local lads began to have certain inklings appertaining thereto, and the battle that ensued with the Gold and Blue's volunteer eleven, although a one-sided win for Michigan, was a good showing for the local's extemporaneous endeavor. 
B}' 1888 the game had taken root here, and was in flourishing condition. An Omaha paper recently ran a picture of the Varsity eleven that battled for Notre Dame's athletic prestige almost thirty years ago. Gene Melady, now a well-known business man of Omaha, played tackle on what was then significantly designated as the "rush" line, and his reminiscences will, no doubt, arouse a train of memories in the minds of many a Notre Dame alumnus. Mus­taches were in fashion in those days, and the uniform consisted of pants and jacket, almost as substantial in cut and texture as a present day basketball uniform. 
The flying wedge was the most approved style of play. Melady was the lightest man on the team, weighing only 175 pounds. The wedge w^as a sort of compromise between a steam roller and a 42-centimetre shell. No "overhead" game for the. Varsity of other days. The principle of the old style of "rush" pla}'' was not to evade, or elude, but to over­whelm and exterminate. The center was under no particular obligation to pass the ball. When the spirit moved him he started through himself, with the entire team concentrating its 
weight and enthusiasm in the small of his back. The other team, meantime was concentrating such weight and retaliatory zeal as it could muster in the pit of his stomach. 
Sometimes the opposing line gave way. More frequently, however, it was the sandwiched centers' spine or diaphragm that yielded. Notre Dame was much given to annual contests with the Physicians and Surgeons of Rush Medical. The score always went democratic, so the only purpose the Irishmen must have had in engaging their easily vanquished foes, was ready medical talent when a center was 
ground to atoms between the upper and nether millstones of "rush" aggression. 
Harry Jewett, considered the fastest man on the team, retained in after life, his pre­dilection for things speedy, and is at present the head of the organization that manufactures Paige - Detroit Motor Cars. Notre Dame's Eighty-Eight team defeated all opponents that year in a style of football that combined every­thing from rugby through to a clinical demon­stration of the survival of the fittest. Melady says that the game is gentler now than then. He points out that it is even considered bad form nowadays for more than seven men to stand on a prostrate player at one time. But 
in the good old golden era, no football star ever felt comfortable enmeshed in the mixing unless he was under three times as many, or standing on the crest of a pile of sardined combatants ten feet high. 
vSkill no doubt had something to ^do with the triumphs of the eighties and -nineties. But skill was never permitted to sneak into the limelight along with weight, blood-thirstiness and an earnest ambition to trample the opposing eleven deep into the torn sod. The path to a touchdown in the old days of center rushes and mustached heroes, was not Jaround or through the opponent's line. It was over it, and not by the "air route" either. The trium­phant registrar of winning tallies marched to victor}'' over the prostrate wishbones of the line that had interfered with the oncoming wedge, not wisely, but with direful results. In the absence of Joe Gargen and that dolorous chant, " Holdemsonsofnotredameh-o-o-ol-d-e-m" the atmosphere was otherwise rent and the spectators made miserable, by the dull crunch 
of breaking groans, and the occasional dull "boom" of a luckless player exploding between the impact of two tons of charging beef. 
4­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 2TI 
x: 
o 
•J-. 
O n 

The 1915 Football Season. 
While Joe Dorais stood in the center of Rice Field on the afternoon of November 27th with arms outstretched to receive a Rice punt, Referee Ouigley blew one shrill blast on his whistle and Notre Dame's 1915 football season had passed into historj'-. It is with mingled feelings of pride and sorrow that we come now to • re\dew in brief the achievements of the 
•L 
last few weeks,—sorrow because many of us have experienced for the last time the sensation that our classmates are battling for us on the 
gridiron; pride because our  team  has  left  
behind it a record that is  rich  with  real  
achievements.  
The beginning of the 1915  
season reaU}'- dates back to  
this time last 3'-ear when we  
first began to realize that  
Eichenlaub, Jones, Finegan,  
Kelleher, Pliska, Duggan,  
Berger, Mills and Bergman,  
nine of the greatest men who  
ever wore football shoes, had  
pla3''ed their last game for  
Notre Dame. With the reali­ 
zation that these men would  
be missing, we looked for­ 
ward to the 1915 season with  
a despair so complete that it  
amoimted almost -to fear.  
As the winter months passed,  
the situation was canvassed  
a thousand times by ever}'^  
loyal supporter of • Notre  
Dame, and still there was  


JESSE HARPER, COACH 
\ 
V' 
/^< 
•v.-. 
no hope. ^ Then the schedule 

- was announced,—one of the hardest that a Notre Dame team has ever faced. Our doom seemed sealed. 
No one realized the desperate situation better than Jesse Harper, the man behind Notre Dame's athletics. Harper realized that there was just one solution of the difficulty,— work./ Work was begun at the earliest possible moment.-.Winter was scarcely oyer when the football,squad was,called out and-turned over to Luke Kelly, Coach of the'Hol}'-;Gross ^eyeh; worst defects soon began to disappear. But summer came on quickl}'- and the warm weather put an end to football when the work was only begun. 
There was *&. lapse in the work until September, and 3'et not a complete lapse, for while the pla^'-ers had scattered to all parts of the country the coaches must have taken no yacation. For when Captain Fitzgerald led the 1915 football squad on to Cartier Field last Septem­ber, Coaches Harper and Rockne were waiting with as fine a set of plays as any team has ever used. But the task of finding men who could execute these plays still remained. Calla­han, Culligan, Ryan and Whelan, four of last year's freshmen who had shown great promise, 
failed to return. Larkin and Lathrop, monogram men who were eligible for another year of football, were among the missing. Only the remnant of a line remained and the backfield situation was even worse. But the men seemed to realize that Notre Dame's reputation hung in the bal­aiice, and they went to work with . a splendid spirit that was bound to bring results. Every man was given a chance by the coaches. No combination of players was left untried. 
Three weeks of' practice were soon over and the open­ing game of the season was at hand. The Varsit}'- faced 

Alma with Rydzewski at center, the veteran Keefe and Captain Fitz­gerald at guards, Stephan and "Hoot" King at tackles, Elward and Baujan on the ends, Bergman at . quarter^ Bachman at fullback and Cofall and . Malone at the halfbacks. After seeing the Alma ;ganie we were con^anced that our worst fears were about to be realized. Seldom has a;N.otre Dame team given such a sorry' - exhibition of the great college sport. Alma fought every inch of-the ground, and it 
 was only after, ai- hard' fight 'that the regulars 
who spent ttljejpastyeiar stud5ang la,W; at .Notr&.;/;:were able W.,score tiurteenvpoints/zin the first 
Dame.^-Historyihas :prbyei:thate.th&^m 
reported to Kelly were good men, but at that but the team, as a whole, played miserably. time they were certainl)'- green. Kelly worked Tieonly bright spot, of the day came in the jTke .a demon;' and. he secured results. The last quarter when Coach Harper sent his second 

THE N'OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
backfield into the game. Phelan at quarter Westerners off 'their feet. The ball was in and John Miller at full showed the 'form that Nebraska's territory at least two-thirds of was to make them two of our most valuable the time; the Notre Dame backs were able to backs. Owing to the good work of these men gain with ease. But disastrous penalties coming the final score was 32 to o against Alma. after our best gains set the splendid work of 
After the Alma game the rooters sat moodily pur backfield at. naught, and the Nebraskans in their rooms awaiting the deluge; but Harper were able to find a weak spot in the Notre had only begun to fight. Every weak spot in Dame defense—our inability to check the the play had been noted in that opening game, . forward pass. Forward passes and the fine and it was a vastly improved team that took playing of Chamberlain, Nebraska's star end, the field against Haskell on October 9th. account for the three touchdowns scored by Hugh O'Donnell had recovered from injuries, the Cornhuskers- After Nebraska had the that kept him out of the Alma game and game apparently won, Notre Dame came back replaced R3'-dzewski at center. Mclnemy with a spectacular attack which fell but one started the game at tackle in place of King. point sh)'- of tying the score and which woidd while Phelan went to quarter in the place of have surely turned the tide of battle had there-Bergman, who was shifted to halfback. The been a few more minutes of play, new combination worked so well that the After the splendid showing of the Varsity gloom that. had hung over us against Nebraska, South Dakota for five months was dispelled was expected to prove a rather in less than five minutes. Has­easy opponent. The Coyotes kell presented a formidable line­were, however, anything but up, and the Indians were easy. In order to keep his especially pointed for the Notre stars in shape for the Army Dame game. However, they game. Harper started the South were powerless before the Dakota ttlt with Jones, Eling onslaughts of Cofall, Bachman and Whipple in the line and and Bergman. O'Donnell and Miller and Malone in the back-Stephan played brilliantly in field. The second string men the line, and the team showed had little difficulty in checking such vast improvement that the South Dakota offense, but the big games of the season they were unable to score them­were no longer feared. selves. Miller's line plunging, 
After the Haskell game two featured in- the first half. Be­KNUTE ROCKNE, ASST. COACH 
weeks were spent in desperate tween • halves Cofall, Stephan, efi'orts to whip the team, into shape for the Bachman and .Elward warmed up and they Nebraska game. Scrimmage with the freshmen were shot into the fray at the start of the second was an almost daily occurrence. Rockne worked half. Stni the Coyotes kept fighting, and the wonders with the line during those two weeks. third quarter was almost over before the Rydzewski. was shifted from .center, where Varsit3'''s most effective play,—the famous O'Donnell was playing in faultless style to Cofall-to-Bergman criss-cross,—sent "Little­tackle. There "Big Frank" played a much Dutch" over for a touchdown, the only score . 
.; improved game and was chosen to start against of the game. The poor form displayed in this the Cornhuskers. El ward and Baujan developed game can undoubtedly be attributed to the beyond the expectations of their most ardent natural reaction that was bound to follow the admirers. Best of all, the men went into the hard Nebraska conflict. Nebraska game knowing that it would take . The greatest factory of the year was scored the best that was in them to win. There was at West Point on November 6th. The Army no_ false confidence; instead there.was a grim team has come to regard the Notre Dame game determination. as second only to the Navy game in importance In one of the best football games ever seen and as second to none in difiSculty. This year's in the West, Nebraska defeated. Notre Dame, renewal of the greatest of all the intersectional. 20 to 19. The defeat was a-.peculiar one. .-On classics was quite as spectacular as either of straight football Notre Dame swept, .the the-two preceding games between the Army 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
and Notre Dame. Each team had one victory to its credit and each was anxious to "make it two out of tliree." The injury to "Ducky" Holmes, who suffered a broken leg just three days before the game, was a severe blow to Notre Dame, as the veteran tackle was just rounding into shape and he Avas expected to play a prominent part in the defense against the West Pointers. In this case, as at all times throughout the season, the team showed a marvellous abilit}'^ to overcome difficulties. The men placed the Army on the defensive from the very start with a smashing attack that the Cadets had great difficult}' in solving. Time after time the ball was advanced within the Army's tliirty-yard line only to have the Arm}' put up a stubborn defense that prevented scoring. Thrice Cofall tried to boot a goal 
from the field. Two of the kicks were partially blocked and the third was carried wide of the goal-posts by the wind. The last quarter arrived and a scoreless tie seemed certain. Then the Army succeeded in getting possession of the ball on Notre Dame's 48-yard line from whence Oliphant, the Cadets' greatest star, attempted a place kick. The ball was aimed squarely, but the kick was just an inch short, for the ball struck the bar across the goal posts and bounded back into the field. This narrow escape seemed to rouse all the fighting spirit in our men. Starting from their own 20-yard line with but a few moments to play they covered the eight}'" yards that separated them from tlie Army goal in just three plays. First, Cofall tore around the Army's end for twenty-seven yards; then Bergman hit the line for a short gain. The next pla}'' was the most sensa­tional of the game. On a punt formation Cofall dropped back to his own 45-yard line where he received the ball on a direct pass from O'Don­nell. Then he shot the ball twenty-five yards down the field where it landed in the arms of Bergman who was fairly flying down the field. Needless to say there was no one on the Army team who could overtake the "I^ittle Dutch­man" before he had registered a touchdown. Cofall kicked an easy goal, and Notre Dame had vanquished the Army, 7 to o. 
Mtex the Army game the Varsity was never pushed; • Greighton proved an easy victim at Omaha on November 13th, the final score being. 41- to p.- The game was featured by the-spectacular 5 work - of Cofall and John Miller in the backfield. -The Creighton fans felt 
¥ 
greatly relieved when Miller replaced Cofall, but John was just as good as "the good-looking demon," which is Nebraska's idea of Cofall. Bachman, too, was in the midst of the fray, making" many long gains. Every one of the twent}''-two men who were taken on the trip got a chance to play and each proved himself worthy of the chance. The interference run­ning in this game was splendid, as was also the generalship of Phelan and Dorais. The ability of the linemen was well displayed when Creighton recovered a fumble on Notre Dame's I-yard line and was unable to put the ball over in four attempts. We have no doubt that Omaha fans will long remember the visit of our team to their city. 
The invasion of Texas formed a fitting climax' for the season. The entire squad was taken to Chicago on November 20th to see the Chicago Illinois game and incidentally to give the Conference stars the "merry rawz." After the game George Hull and Michael Calnon, two of our most loyal supporters, were hosts to the squad at a splendid banquet at the Hotel LaSalle. The next day Coach Harper and twenty-three of his men, accompanied by Father Farley, "Hullie" and "Mike," boarded the -rattler and were off for the Southland. The team whipped the Texans so decisively that it seems a shame that they were not sent on down to Mexico to clean up that Republic's many fighters. 
The Thanksgiving Day game with Texas University was not as easy as the score indicates. The Longhorns were well prepared and put up a stubborn fight. However, it has •r­become a tradition for the Notre Dame team to make a splendid showing at the close of the season; and the 1915 team did not violate the tradition. The Eonghorns were smothered to the tune of 36 to 7, and two days later the Rice Institute Owls were buried under a 55 to 2 score. The entire Notre Dame team starred in both games. The Fitzgerald-O'Donnell-Keefe combination in the center of the line, worked like a German army, while the "Irish" 
^ 
backs never failed to gain when a" gain was really necessary. In the Texas-game Bergman broke into the hieadlines with a 65-yard sprint for a touchdown. Cofall had to be content with: short .gains in this game, his best effort being some eighty yards in three attempts. _However, it:was;in the Rice ;gamie that '' Stan'' really surprised the natives. Rice played a 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
criticised early in the season unjustly, and his 
ignoring the injury to his feelings in an effort 
to better himself in his position showed the 
character of his work and his character as a 
man. He was out to help in the making of a 
good team and he did his best. His success 
would be seen in telling over the stories of 
the line gains of the past season. Charlie's 
track ability helped him wonderfully in develop­
ing himself into a fullback, for he was particu­
larly good at starting fast, and the speed he 
showed this season would be hard to find in 
anothei: man of his size and weight. This 
is Bachman's second year on the team; so 
we expect big things from him next season. 
HARRY C. BAUJAN, End. 
The only other veteran on the team was 

Baujan who played end last year alternating 
with Mills. Harr}'' had an exceptionally good 
year this season, and was strong on both defense 
and offense. His catching of the passes, his 
speed and his tackling ability, rank him with 
the best; for no team was able to make gains 
around either end and some of the teams 
•encountered, made this feature their main asset; but when they tried their end running on Notre Dame, they found good men at both posts who could stop the onslaught as many times as it was tried. Butch is a good running mate for Elward; for both play the same hard, consistent game on the defense and both are about equal at catching passes. Butch is ver}' fast, and he uses more than ordinar}' care in getting himself in condition, and consequently is never out of the game on account of injuries. 
HUGH O'DONNELL, Center. Probably the best of the new men on the team as a regular is O'Donnell, the peppery center who added a world of strength to the Varsity this year. Hugh was a sub last season, but this year he is spoken of as one of those who starred. He not only- made the team, he made it better by his presence, and there are few centers anywhere who can compare with him. Again his lack of years kept him from being noticed, but the man he outplayed at the Army game is heralded as one of the greatest in the country. The inexperience of O'Donnell on the team as a regular ought to add to his achievement instead of detracting from it, for he made himself a star in a short time. At the first of the year he was impeded by injuries, but he refused to stay out of the work, and as a result he was hurt "time and again, 
but he finally recovered, and the last half of the season he was in good shape for all the games, and the write-ups showed that he was in the game the whole time. At Texas the papers said the holes opened up in the center of the. "Long Horns'" line were large enough to drive' drays through, which speaks well for the center of the Varsity line. 
DUTCH BERGMAN, Halfback. 

Arthur Bergman stepped into the shoes of_ his big brother this year and came as close to filling them as anyone possibly could, and that is saying a great deal; for "Big Dutch" was our only all-Western man last year and he won several games by himself. In this respect Al had little on Arthur, for more than once during the course of the season, the ball was given to him to shove over the line when an exceptionally large number of yards were needed to put it over, and nearly ever}' time 
EMMETT KEEFE. 

he turned the trick. His speed made it almost impossible for the opponents to get him after he once had a fairh' clear field. His big play was the criss-cross which he worked to perfection. This is his first year on the Varsity, and we cannot imagine what he will do the next two years. It looks as if even Walter Camp will have to put him on the all-American team. 
MERVIN J. PHELAN, Quarterback. 
The problem of finding a quarterback to fiU "Big Dutch" Bergman's place was one that bothered the. coaches'for some time before the season opened; but in the first few games, Phelan demonstrated what he could do in the Avay of handling the team, using his head, passing, kicking, and a few other things, and the position was no longer in doubt. Phelan first came to prominence in Interhall where he starred for St. Joseph by his kicking ability, .defeating some of the best teams. His passing has been good all year, and the wa}' in which he runs the team shows that he will be a valuable quarterback to next 3'ear's team and that of the years to follow. His head should make him one of the stars of the countr}^ in the near future. 
FRANK RYDZEWSKI, Tackle. 
"Big Frank" graduated from the Freshman team of last year and this season held down the regular tackle position on the Varsity. At the first of the season Frank was slated for the center position, but O'Donnell showed up to so great an advantage- in the early games that Frank was shifted to tackle. Here he played all 3'^ear, upholding his side of the line to good advantage and time and again breaking through the opposing line to throw the backs for a loss. He has a powerful buUd and his inere strength alone makes him a valuable man to the team. He has two years more to pla)'' and in that time should develop into an excep­tional linesman. 
ARNOLD M . MCINERNY, Tackle. " • 
Mac is one of the biggest men who ever played on a Notre Dame team, tipping the beam so far. above the 200 mark that it.makes him nervous to think about it. He was in nearly all of the games and started some of them as it was hard to' select between'him and Frank. Mac is a hard worker, has almost unlimited power, and although exceptional!}'- tall, he is a,good tackier and a hard .man to play against. He did his share in the scoring of victories during the year, and his next two 3z:ears should be even more successful as he is practically 

•sure of a regular berth next year. JOHN MILLER, Halfback. As a substitute for Cofall it would be hard to get one better than John Miller, who 
^attracted great attention wherever he pla^^cd. At Creighton he advanced the ball over a hundred ^'•ards, and the Omaha papers gave him a big write-up, saying that when Cofall left the game the Creighton spirits rose only to be killed as soon as Miller was given the ball. Another game'in Avhich he got a chance was the South Dakota game when he ran through 
•and around the Coyotes at will. He is an exceptional • man, but there are two others on the team who- are sensations. He was on the squad last 3'-eaf and Avill make a strong bid for a regular place next season. 
GROVER MALONE, Halfback. 
Another halfback who showed ability this 

fall was Malone, who was very fast and a good 
ground gainer, but lost his position on the 
regular team to a more experienced man. It 
was Malone's first year, and this fact cost him 
the position, for he lacked a little of that which 
makes Varsity men,' and the position which 
at the beginning of the season seemed his 
went to an older man who was showing phe­
nomenal work. Malone is a great back and by 
next 5''ear should make the best of them hustle 
for his position. . 
GERALD JONES, Guard. 

•The
 presence of two star guards kept Jones from the regular team; for there are few men in the country who could beat out two men like Fitzgerald and Keefe, for -although a sub, Jones got a few chances and showed that he had the stuff that good linemen are made of. In the South Dakota game, Jones got a chance to show what was in him, and he certainty did; for he was through the line breaking up play 

•after
 pla}'" and opening wide holes for his own men to plow through. He played with the 

•Freshmen-last
 ^'•ear, and this year has shown such an improvement that we feel confident he will be a regular next season. 


HoLLis. KING, Tackle. 

•Another reserve who did his part in making the line what it was, was "Hoot" King, who substituted'for Stephan; the physical consti­tution of.the latter gave "Hoot" scarcely a chance, for Steve absolutel}^ refused to be laid out; and as a consequence King got few chances. He started the South Dakota. game, however, 
r' 
^ 

and showed his worth to the team. "Hoot" 
was on the squad last year for the first time, 
so he has another year to play. Next year he 
should make the first team. 
RAY C. WHIPPLE, End. 
Whipple was in much the same fix as the rest 
of the good substitutes; for he was fresh frora­
the first 3-ear team and had two excellent 
veterans to buck. He too got his big chance 
in the South Dakota game, and in this game 
displayed the ability which gave him his 
monogram, although while subbing in the games 
away from home he showed up well, especially 
on the defense. He is a hard tackier and keeps 
fighting the whole time, so it is hard for the 
best backs to get around him. He should 
prove a world beater next yeat. 
GEORGE HOLMES, Tackle. 
Although "Ducky" did not receive a mono­gram this year, he deserves to be considered with those who did receive them because he was kept from it by a broken leg, sustained in the middle of the season. Ever since then he has been confined to the hospital and will not be out for another week or so... This accident cast a veil of gloom over the season which was otherwise successful, and the, entire student body offers heartfelt' sympathy, to the man who suffered so much in fighting for his Alma Mater. No one ever doubted "Ducky's" football ability because he had already, won -a 
^monogram before this year. He was a depend­able man always on the aggressive and a con­sistent fighter. He would have won another monogram had he not met with the. injury. 
Besides the monogram men there are many others who aided in making the season a success ;. but because they were not quite as good as the regulars, they had to watch the games from the sidelines. The work done by these men is harder than that done by the regulars, , for they go out night after night to face a team of superiors, and the best they can hope for is a chance.to get in some gamfe for a few minutes. Their Avork is all hard work and no praise; so let us take this opportunity to express our appreciation of the sacrifices and of the real work done by the "subs" in doing their share in building up the tearn that met with so much success.. Those who deser:i^e mention are: Slackford, Franz, Yeager, Tom King, Dorais, F. Jones, Voelkers, DeGree, Ellis, W. Miller, Wolfe, Dickson, .Murphy, Andrees, Hardy, Cook and Beh. 
Emmett Keefe. 
I'H E N . D . line is mighty,'it's the source of all our glee. It's the wonder of the ages, makes us happy as can be. Brings the other team to sorrow and immerses it . • in grief. Because they can do little when we've got our Emmett Keefe. 
For Emmett's hitting hard and low, and Emmett's everywhere; He's plowin' through the enemy as if no one was there; The boys then give the "U. A'. D.," for Emmett's ripped a hole. To let the backs go dancin' through, and run off to the goal. 
Our Emmett sure is husky, but" he's modest as ' -a saint. When it comes to playin' football, you will find ' mg' \vhere he "ain't." I kno;\v",rve got my life insured, .but I-don't want to die, • -" I'd rather grace the bleachers and nine rahs for ; • Emmett cry: 
For Emmett's-here and Emmett's there,'he's always . :,• > • in.-the'fight:-. When N- D. wants to blast a hole, she needs no 
- dynamite. If she'll whisper soft to Emmett we will sigh in great relief;' • ' 
For we'll know just what is comin' and we'll . keep our eyes on Keefe. . '' 
John A. 'Lemmer. 


Fitzgerald. 
j-j E'S brought the bacon home to us. He's honored our good name. He's made the critics all look up— : Captain at Notre Dame! 
He's made the all-American; He's going!—'tis a shame. He's not to stay another year ^ Captain at Notre Dame. 
He's everything we want and need While football is a game. He's talked of iiow- from coast to coast. Captain at Notre Daine! 
D. E. Erpelding. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Freshman Team. 

Old Deacon Jones has done many a good turn for Notre Dame, but nothing in his life here becomes him quite so much as his masterly handling of this year's youngsters. In the three years that have elapsed since the three-year rule went into effect, Notre Dame has been particularly fortunate in possessing some of the best green football timber in the land; see Yale's interest in our last year's squad. However, giving preceding teams their due, we doubt if there was ever gathered together on Carticr Field at one time before, so many ceding Saturday they had besieged Culver in their lair on Lake. Maxinkuckce and handed them the wrong end of a 35 to 6 score. On Thanks­giving Day, while the Varsity was taking the Longhorns into camp, they upheld our old prestige in Michigan territory by defeating Detroit University School 7 to o. The last score is by no means a fair measure of the work done in the game. The Freshmen's splendid interference and wonderful defensive work; the two brilliant runs of quarterback jMurphy for twenty-five yards each; the dashing attack of the backs, Fitzpatrick, AIcDermott and Miller, brought well-earned praise from the 
<> 

If: 
TH E 1915 FRESHMAN SQUAD. 
promising candidates for the Varsity as the aforementioned aggregation possesses. Some­how or other, they didn't turn out to be the "Horaces" and "Reginalds" that our stiff correspondent wrote of so pleasingly last September. Even had the}^ been as bad as painted, a few weeks of coaching by our old tackle would have turned them into stars. 
The}'' played onl}'' three games, but those games afforded us ample opportunity to detect their sterling worth and to prophesy for their future. On October loth they descended on the little town of Kankakee and battered St. Viator's to the tune of 27 to nix. On the pre-Detroit papers, and anything they hand us up in that section must be true. Just before the final whistle Murphy heaved a forward pass of twenty yards to Peaison who was downed on the five-3'-ard line just as time was called. 
The work of the Freshmen would speak for itself were there no SCHOLASTIC to give it fitting form in print, and for that reason we hesitate to chronicle their deeds, fearing to give too much praise to one and not enough to another member of the team. All three games were played on foreign fields, so we must depend on the newspaper reports of the various sections invaded, along with the scrimmages with the Varsity on Cartier Field Avhich we witnessed ourselves, in order to give credit where credit is due. We- will now cease to generalize and mention a few names. 
First and foremost, all hail to Fitzpatrick! Captain and left half of the team. Before coming to us he was given the position of all­jMichigan fullback in recognition of his Avork on the Alpena High School team. His red head, like the plume of Navarre, was the oriflamme of the team in every mi.\-up of the season. Always a good ground gainer and goal kicker he will undoubtedly prove a valuable addition to the Varsit}^ backfield next year. 
Miller, at fullback, was also a consistent line bucker and ground gainer. He will certainly live up to all that we expect of one bearing his name in the years to come. McDermott at right half was a worthv running mate for Fitz. Murphy, quarterback, Avas a huge success. His handling of the team AA-as entirely satisfactory, and his two runs of tAventy-fiA-e yards each in the Detroit game lead us to believe that Dorais and Phelan Avill haA'e an able substitute in '16. Pearson's AA-ork in the back­field AA'as consistent and at times sensational. Allison, right half, AA-as alAA'^ays ready to tear things up A\-hen Fitz shoAA'ed ennui, and O'Hare ditto for Miller. 
The line particularly shoAved the coaching of our former star tackle and Varsity captain. Let's start at the right and go doAvn. Thomas, right 
"DEAK" 
end, ncA'cr seemed to be afflicted AA'ith 
hookAvorm throughout the season, but succeeded in stopping about ninety-eight per­cent of the men wdao essayed to sneak around his end. Whitteried at right tackle filled his position like a veteran. Zoia, right guard, played the game every minute and Avas equally good on defense and oifcnse. We expected big things of Coughlin at center, and were not disappointed. We now understand how he held the position of center on the all-Cook County team for two years. Jim Cook filled the position of left guard with the same easy freedom and happy smile that marks him on the campus. Andrews at left tackle proved an able linesman and will probably be Varsity material next vear. Berkey, left end, vied  with Thomas in keeping his end clear, and  played a good offensive game. Carey was an able substitute for Coughlin at center, and Meagher ditto for Thomas. Philbin, right tackle, will prove a terrible contender.for a line position on the Varsity. Along with his size he possesses the form and science of a true student of the game. Maddigan's injury, received early in  the season, kept him out of the big scraps,­but we witnessed enough of his work to realize that his football days at Notre Dame are not over. 

Well, that's about all we can say for them, man for man, because the space allotted will not permit us to be more explicit. If they feel 
the least bit disappointed, let them turn to the SCHOL.-VSTICS of former days and read the meagre write-ups of the greatest stars on our present Varsity. Then let them be solaced with the thought that thev are the Varsity men of to-morrow. 
We (speaking editorially) called on the "Rev. Jones" in his suite in Walsh Hall last Sunday at 10:00 
A. M., and requested an inter­view. Wiping the soap out of his eyes with a towel, he grinned and pleaded for mercy. All he would say was that the Freshmen team of this year is the host ever seen in these parts, and that he couldn't say anything that would mean half so much as their work on the field. He expressed entire satisfaction with the way they have co-operated with him and the manner in which they 

 JONES 
have handled themselves throughout 

FRESHMAN COACH 
the season. Outside of that, he gave  us permission to say whatever we liked, but we  came away feeling that not much else was left  to be said. The work of the Freshmen speaks  for them; far be it from our bungling pen to  add or detract one jot or tittle from the merit  they displayed or the praise that is due them  for the very successful season that they have  just gone through, winning our admiration,  If we said more, we might repeat and become  wearisome, so we rise, make our little bow,  and propose—The Freshmen of to-day—the  Varsity of to-morrow—may the}', in days to  come, fight for the colors of the old School  with the same loyalty and fervor that they  displayed in the season just ended. 
The Interhall Season. 
The Interhall football season just closed has been a most successful one. If for no other reason, it would be called a success because of the promising material it discovered and developed. But aside from that, some mighty good football Avas played; the games.were all warml)'' contested, and an interest keener than ever before was shown b}!- both players and fans. ,_ ; 
It must surely be admitted that some good football men were discovered in' the season which has just ended, rmxiy of them looming up as possible star material for the Varsity next year. If onl}'^ this has been accomplished, the league has certainly served a purpose. McGuire, the 3''0ung husky linesman of Walsh; McDermott, Klein and Coughlin of Corby; Miller of St. Joseph; Murphy of Brownson; Fitzpatrick of Sorin, and others all promise to make a hard fight for the Varsity eleven next year. This list is not complete as each hall had its share of stars. 
There was but one regret of the season and that was the oisbanding of the Sorin Hall team. The championship cup will be awarded to Brownson, but it seems that the Sorin • team, should be at least recognized in some way, since the}'- tied the strong Brownsonites early in the season. It is to be regretted that the eligibility rules forced this team out of the running as the)'- would undoubtedly, have been in the fight for the cup at the finish. 
In the first game of the season Sorin and Brownson fought to a 7 to 7 tie, the feature of the game being the.excellent work of Morales for Brownson, and the playing of Fitzpatrick, McGonneU and Corcoran for Sorin. On the afternoon of= the same day, St. Joseph held the strong Walsh team to a scoreless tie. Grady, for Walsh, proved his ability as a consistent ground gainer, while Freund and Andres of St. Joseph excelled in line plunges and long, end runs. 
A week later, outweighed to the man, Walsh went down to defeat before Brownson to the score * of 21. to, 9. . Walsh did not have her strongest line-up in; the game, which accormted for the large score piled up by.the Brownsonites. A pretty drop-kick from the 35-yard line by Pearson, of Walsh was easity the feature of .this game. He put the baU over from a difficult,­angle, and wiU be heard from next fall:when Varsity practice is started. ,The last two games , 

were fought on a field of mud and water, and the outcome might have been different had they been played on a dr}'-field. Brownson defeated Walsh. b}^ the score of 6 to o, and a week later, during a young cloudburst, nosed out Corby by the narrow margin of one touch­down, winning the championship. Brownson certainly had a good team which played con­sistent ball during aU the games, and deserves credit for its work. ­
The wealth of good material this year makes an all-star interhall selection extremel}'' difficult, but the following team was selected at a con­ference, consisting of all the coaches of the hall teams and three Varsity men, Cofall, Stephan 
<'*! 
and Fmmett Keefe. Jim Cook, Walsh Left End 
J. Gargan, Walsh Left Tackle Klein, Corb}' Left Guard Red McConnell, Sorin Center McCourt, Sorin Right Guard CraA^nEord, Walsh Right Tackle 
N. Barry, Brownson Right End Red. BroAvn, Walsh Quarterback 
,C. Beh, Corby Left Halfback Allison, Brownson Right Halfback Milieu, Corb)'-Fullback A word of explanation. ID many cases the 

ability of the men was so equal that to pick the best.man was almost impossible. There was much good end-material. Klein of Corby played a stellar game at that position, but his weight caused him to be picked as a guard. 
, Cook of Waish and Barry of Brownson were the two men selected to fill the end positions on this mj^thical eleven. They are fast, sure tacklers and both have mastered the knack of- receiving forward passes. McCourt was selected for the other guard. He is powerful, heav}'- andon.the off'ensive.is a world of strength. Gargan and CraAA^ord, both of Walsh, are the tackles. Gargan's position was cinched but - the many good linemen made the other selection difficult. However, - the place Avas giA'en to. CraAvford of Walsh AAdio played such a stellar game against Brownson and St. Joseph. -,The center position -AA'-as . the hardest one to fill, .not because of the lack of good men but because of. the number that Avere Avorthy of the honor. Each team was represented in the . list from AA^hich this teain AA^as chosen, but the 
.selection Avas finali)^. narroAA'-ed down to three, McKinne3'-:of; Walsh, Coughlin of Corby and McGohnell of Sorin. .The place AA^as given to 

THE NOTRE'DAME SCHOLASTIC 
McConnell. McKinney is a bit too light, but would have received -the position had it not been for the exceptional ability of the other two. Coughlin is a football player—there can be no doubt of that—but his real worth has not been tested. He is the better passer of the two, but McConnell is a more aggressive player. He is in on every play, and his presence in the game always enthuses fight and pep into the rest of the team. So he has been selected all-interhall center. Red Brown of Walsh was ' given the quarterback position over Murphy because of his superior generalship. Murphy is a better forward passer, but does' not run a team with the generalship and coolness of Brown. Allison was selected as right half. He is a good forward passer, a good open field runner and a demon at line plunging. The other halfback position was given to Carlton Beh of Corby. It has been pointed out that he was Varsity material and should not be considered on an interhall team, but nevertheless he is given a place in the backfield because of his kicking and his ability to make first downs whenever-called upon. The fullback position was never in doubt. Ward Miller of Corby was by far the best in the league, which does not mean that there were not other good men for this place. But Miller is a star of the first order and will give all a hard fight for the fullback position next fall. He has the driving power of an Eichenlaub combined with speed. 
This selection may not contain the stars of the interhall league, but it surely presents a well-balanced team, one equally strong on the defensive or offensive. It would be especially efficient at the open style of football. With such a strong line, Allison to hurl the passes, and two siich ends as Cook and Barry to receive them, the eleven should be an efficient scoring machine. 
Notre Dame—Incompaiable- and Unconquerable. 
You can talk about your colleges. Fair Harvard and old Yale; You can drink to poor old Michigan, In champagne or in ale. 
You can weep for dear Northwestern-She has never won a game; But we're satisfied to stay right here And plug for Notre Dame. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Entered as Second-Cluss Mail Matter. 

Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid 

Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana 
XLIX. DECEMBER ii, 1915 No. 14. 
Board of Editors. 

* TIMOTHY GALVIN, 'l 6 SPEER STRAHAN, '17 RAY HUMPHREYS, 'l6 LOUIS KEIFER, '16 EUGENE MCBRIDE, '16 D. EDMONDSON, '18 HOWARD PARKER, 'ij ARTHUR HUNTER, '16 
HARRY SCOTT, '18 


Varsity Football Banquet. 

At the Oliver Hotel -last Sunday evening the 1915 Football Season was officially closed. It was a fitting end to a very successful season and an event that .will be long remembered. fi. Coach . Harper had personal charge" of the affair and the same "pep" which has marked his work on the gridiron was brought to bear upon the conducting of the banquet. 
The event was characterized by the presence of the two loyal N. D. supporters, "Hullie" and ''Mike," and their brief but humorous remarks . brought considerable laughter from the guests. The outgoing members of the team, Captain Fitzgerald, Keefe and Elward, made their farewell remarks amid laughter and sorrow. Professor Benitz gave his usual toast, as also did Assistant Coach Rockne. During the time' that the "training table appetites" . were in their glory, music was furmshed by Messrs. Riley and Martin, and it is needless to remark that this line of entertainmeiit was well taken care of. 
To show their appreciation for the Coaches the Varsity squad, through the medium . of Captain Fitzgerald, presented : Harper and Rockne with a cigar-holder, cigar case and a box of cigars. 
After Cheer-Leader Gargan had~ led'the Squad members in giving cheers for Harper and Rockne, the monogram men adjourned to the adjoining room where they elected Donald Cofall to lead the Gold and Blue during the season of 1916.. 
This ended the festivities, and the 1915 season- was over. It was the consensus of opinion that it was "some season." 
22 6  THE  NOTRE  DAME  SCHOLASTIC  
Every  Kick  Is  a  Boost.  
Eight football games all in a row, Alma gets biffed,—seven games to go.  BY R.  M.  H.  Four games more,—we chuckle in glee, Creighton we clean,—now there's only three.  
Seven wee games still in the wa^-, Haskell snowed under,—six more to play.  Three games remain for N. D. U. Army crocked,—so now there's but two. ^"^-^^s- 

Six little games now left by heck, Nebraska and Ecky land on our neck! 
Five little games all yet in store. Coyotes defeated, now there's but four. 
Two little games,—both good as won, Texas croaks and that leaves but one. 
One little game left,—Sis, boom, bah! Rice digested,—Notre Dame, rah, rah, rah! 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Notes and Comments. 

The following interesting statement from our old friend, Mr. Fielding Yost, together with the comment thereon appeared in a recent edition of the South Bend Tribune: 
CITES N. D. AS EXAMPLE. In my opinion, teams using men four years should play only with teams following the same rule. The additional year makes a great deal of difference in the possibilities for a team. The case of Notre Dame helps make my point. Until two years ago, Notre Dame under the four-year rule was a dangerous adversary and defeated some very strong teams, including Yale and the Army. Last season Notre Dame adopted the three-year rule, barring first-year men, and since then she has not been heard from so- prominently. It surely makes a difference. 
(Editors' note: Mr. Yost is writing these articles for the Tribune under his own name, so we are forced to print the matter whether it is right or wrong. Dis­tinctly, Mr. Yost has wandered far from the facts in making his point on three-year athletics. It is to be conceded the four-j'ear schools have the advan­tage. There is no argument there. But to use Notre Dame to sharpen the point Mr. Yost shows regrettable ignorance of the football record and rules of one of the leading universities of the world. In the first place Notre Dame never defeated Yale. Her victories over the Army were both scored when the freshmen eligibility rule was in force; when she played Yale she observed the one-year residence rule, of course. As for Notre Dame losing her prominent place in football news, the fact remained that she outplayed the team which is regarded generally as the strongest in the West this year, Nebraska.) 
Mr. Yost is certainly deserving of criticism since such elementary ignorance of football history is unpardonable in a man of his standing. Pie is of course right in saying that "Notre Dame under the four-year rule was a dangerous adversary and defeated some ver>'­strong teams." As a splendid Illustration of this point, Mr. Yost might have referred to Notre Dame's victory over Michigan in '09. No matter how hazy his recollection of our other achieve­ments may be, we feel quite sure that Mr. Yost has not forgotten that victory. If Mr. Yost wants to demonstrate his point by showing how much weaker Notre Dame is with the three-year rule in force than she was before the rule was adopted, we suggest that he arraiige for a meeting between the 1916 Michigan and Notre Dame elevens. Since the Freshman rule was adopted at Notre Dame we have won five out of seven big intersectional games, thus .pre­
venting the East from establishing a definite claim to superiority, a claim that might well be based upon \'ictories of Eastern teams over Michigan. Certainly if Notre Dame is losing "her prominent place in football news," Michigan must have been long since relegated to oblivion. 
* 

As is customary at this time of the year, a number of all-star elevens have been chosen. Camp's all-American has not appeared as yet, but we have no doubt that Walter wiU display his usual generosity toward the West and especially toward Notre Dame by placing six or seven of our best men on his eleven. The all-American selected by the Detroit-Times honors Captain-elect Cofall with a position on the second team. The aU-American selected by Parke H. Davis, sport writer for the New York Herald, is a representative selection. His choice is as follows: 
ALL-AMERIC.-V ELEVEN. End M. N. Shelton, Cornell Tackle W. T. VanderGraaff, Alabama Guard C. Spears, Dartmouth Center R. H. Peck, Pittsburgh Guard F. Fitzgerald. Notre Dame Tackle Howard Buck, Wisconsin End Guy B. Chamberlain, Nebraska Quarterback Charles Barrett, Cornell Halfback E. W. Mahan, Harvard Halfback E. N. Mayer, Virginia Fullback E. H. Driggs, Princeton 
The Indianapolis N'ews for November 27th has the following dope: Another football season has passed into history, and once again comes the arduous duty of honoring football men who have . distinguished themselves on Indiana teams this season. The News has departed a bit from its custom this year, and its selection for places on the all-state and all-secondary teams is made by a number of football coaches, sport writers and others who have followed the game closely. The selections, therefore, represent the composite opinions of many and not the opinion of one. A short review of the football season is in order. Notre Dame gets first place because it has been defeated only once this season, and then by one point. It has played an unusually hard schedule; and that Harper's men should come victorious through a season when the first material looked anything but promising, is a credit both to tlie^ coach and the fighting spirit of the men. The game with Rice Institute to-day should be a victory for Notre Dame, if dope counts for anything. 
After some further comment on the showing of the various Indiana elevens and the ability 

228 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
of their players, the A^ews selects the following all-State team: 
ALL-STATE Left End Elward, Notre Dame Left Tackle Blo'cker, Purdue Left Guard Keefe, Notre Dame Center . - Fitzgerald, Notre -Dame ^Right Guard Redmond, Indiana Right Tackle Cauldwell, Wabash Right End Stinchfield, Purdue Quarterback Pfohl, Wabash Left Halfback Cofall, Notre Dame Right Halfback -Pultz, Purdue Fullback Mackintosh, Indiana 
Indiana fans will be interested in the follow­ing comment from a recent edition of the Indianapolis Star: • • 
ALL-TIME, ALL-STATE ELEVEN. 

Blaine Patton, who has been in these parts much longer than the editor of this column, contributes the following first and second all-time, all-state foot­ball elevens: 
FIRST TEAM. 

Left End Rockne, Notre Dame Left Tackle I. Williams, Wabash Left Guard Fitzgerald, Notre Dame Center -. W'augh, Indiana Right Guard Blocker, Purdue Right Tackle C. Thomas, Butler Right End Elward, Notre Dame Quarterback Gill, Indiana Left Halfback Oliphant Purdue Right Halfback Spaulding, Wabash Fullback Eichenlaub, Notre Dame 
SECOND TBAM. 

Left End Tucker, DePauw Left Tackle Daly, Notre Dame Left Guard Sutherland, W^abash Center Feeney, Notre Dame Right Guard Routh,, Purdue Right Tackle, , W^inte^s, Indiana Right End * . .. -^ KruU, Purdue Quarterback •Hare, Indiana Left Halfback 5. - Salmon, Notre Dame Right Halfback Bergman, Notre Dame Fullback • • S. Thomas^ Purdue 
HONORABLE MENTION:—Studebaker, •'Glossup' and Pults, (Purdue); Dorais, -Hamilton and Vaughan (Notre Dame); Fleming, M. Erehart and Ed Davis (Indiana)';;j"Frunp, .Dague and Sprow (Wabash); France (Butler);" Garter (Rose: Poly). 
' A New.yorksppft'writer who'is apparehtl}'­afraid, tp,-disdpse\'his' real i who signs, himself •.''JDopeM/has, att^pted ..to rank,, the football teamsof; the entire country... IBasing. his ratings on; comparative -scores *he ^fanks .the teams of the'yarious sections .as: follows:; .;-. .­
East: Cornell, Pittsburgh, Harvard, Prince­ton, Syracuse, Dartmouth, Penn State, Wash­ington and Jefferson, Colgate, and Army. 
South: Georgetown, Virginia, Vanderbilt, Georgia Tech, Georgia, Auburn, Mississippi Aggies, Kentucky-, Alabama, and Louisiana. 
Midwest: Notre Dame, Minnesota, Illinois, Chicago, Wisconsin, Michigan Aggies, Michigan, Ohio State, Purdue, and Indiana. 
West: Nebraska, Oregon, Oregon Aggies, Washington ,State, Texas Aggies, Texas Uni­versit)'-, Oklahoma, Montana, Ames and South Dakota. 
"Old Man Dope" then throws all scores aside, and viewing the season as a whole, he gives a rating of what he consideres the twenty strongest teams in'the countr3^ He ranks the teams as follows: Harvard, Cornell, Princeton, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, Dartmouth, Penn 'State, Washington and Jefferson, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Colgate, Minnesota, Illinois, Army, Oregon, Oregon Aggies, Georgetown, Virginia, Brown, Yale and Penns5dvania. 
* * 
* 

Immediately upon his return from Texas; Coach Harper took charge of the basketball squad that .had been working out under the direction of Captain Daly. The Coach faces a difficult problem in building up a formidable five as onl}'" two of last year's monogram men are available: Captain Dal}'^ and Fitzgerald are' both men who have proved their worth in the past and they can be relied upon to give a good accoimt of themselves. The rest of the team is largely problematical as yet, although there are a number- of Sophomores of good 
.ability. •. •. . -. . Coach Harper has announced the following ' schedule for the. basketball team: : Decembe'r 15; Lewis Institute .at Notre Dame. 
.January 12,'Kalamazoo College at'JSTotre Dame. January 15, Lake Forest at. Notre Dame. January-19; Michigan Aggies at Notre Dame. Jantiary 22, Dubuque College at Notre Dame. 
. January 26, Kalamazoo, Normal at Notre Dame /. January 29, St; Ignatius at Notre Dame. ; February 2, "Michigan Aggies at Lansing. February, 5, Beloiit at Notre Dame. -. .'.Felpruary ;9,-St/, Viator's: at Notre Dame. . ... ­^February- li,'Wabash/.at\No^^^ FebruaryfJ8,,;,Wabash-at-Cra,wfordsville. , -.' 
J: February;,i9f. DePauw at Gfeencastle. , 
r)­
jFootbatt Vtv6t. 
Our Team, 
IMOW we ain't much at marbles. Croquet and all the rest. But jes' you mention football That's where we're at our best. 
That line of ourn's as strong as steel. An' full of fight and beef,— With Fitz, an' Hugh, an' Frank, an' Steve, An' trusty Emmett Keefe. 
Our fleet ends travel like a shot. An' Phelan's got a toe That boots that ball for sixty yards,— You'd ought to see 'er go. 
The way that Bach tears up a line Jes' makes us shout an' laugh. An' we ain't worryin' 'bout our speed When Dutch is playin' half. 

An' then we got a ''human whiz" In plucky Stan Cofall. > You think you're at a race when he Is carrying the ball. 
Our squad o' subs—a likely lot. Are coached in each detail; And-when they're put into a game. Good laws! They couldn't fail. 
We got some team, and coaches too. In Harper, an' old R.ock, Who sure can coach, although there ain't , No hair upon his block. 
Our rooters too, have never failed: Jes' keep that in your "domes," And one who rooted from his bed. Was "hard-luck Ducky" Holmes. . 
John Reuss. 
"Dutch." 

I was sittin' on the bleachers, a watchin' of the game Between those two big colleges. West Point and Notre 
Dame; A feller sat beside me, who was yellin' awful much, Regardin' all the players, specially the one called 
"Dutch." ­

He was just a little feller, but that didn't hinder him 'Cause he never hesitated, but went down the field with vim.' ' ' 
He would wiggle through an opening like a slipperjr conger eel, -, • With a bunch of other players, all a-stringin' at his heel. 
V. R. Helmen.. 
The Aftermath. 
The season of football is over. The bleachers forsaken and bare. The ' pigskin' consigned to its lockers. The uniforms waiting repair. The injured are now convalescing, ' The 'benched' are still nursing their grouch. And the monogram seekers are guessing Their chances—for more, I can vouch. 
Fitzgerald is now modestly blushing At the compliments paid to his skill. And Cofall, star half, is preparing The captainship next year to Sll. Then Keefe's getting ready to leave us. And Elward has got to go too. But Bach has a year yet to give us Some samples of what skill can do. 
Art;Bergman, O'Donnell and Baujan, And Stephan and Phelan and Frank— The future has crowns to bestow on These gallants of premier rank. So it's drink to the health of our big men And a rousing three cheers for the rest. With the wish that good fortune may give them: 
Her choicest and rarest and best.  i  
W. J.  Redmond:  
Our Irish Three.  

Our Irish three, our Irish three. 
How many a foe they've caused to flee. 
At Rice, West Point, and Creighton TJ. 
They made teams look a sickly crew. 
Who?—Emmett, and Fitz, and Hugh. 
Let critics choose their all-star crews, "Eckie" and Camp and the Evening News, From East and West and all the states. But these three men will top our slates— Who?—Emmett, and Fitz and Hugh. ­
Raymond W. Murray^ 
Just "Mai." 
Talkin' football rainy days 
'Bout the pep our team displays, AVhen we're passin' round the pjraise 
Ain't there someone we forget? 
He's the unassumin' kind. Always right there in the grind ;^ 
Grit like his is hard to find. 
We shall miss him, you can bet. 
Cbfall's sure a "heap big chief," Bachman wasn't any bluff. But our husky midget,"Mai," . \­
Well, nuf sed, " he's got the stuff," 
F. Jenning Vurpillai^ 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
"The Birth of a Nation." 
Through the extreme kindness of Mr. H. G. 

Summers of New- York City, Mr. H. E. Aitken, 
and Mr. D. W. GriflSith, the facultj'- was enabled 
to present "The Birth of a Nation" in Wash­
ington Hall, thus saving most of the students 
the price of a galler}'' perch at the OHver. 
Probabl)'' never in the history of the University 
were seats in the campus theatre so Hterall)'' 
fought over as on Fridaj'-morning, December 3rd. 
So much has been written and told about 

"The Birth of a Nation" that a detailed account 
of its splendors is unnecessarj'- here. And well 
that it is so, for we feel it to be vastly bej'-ond 
our power to express in words the feelings to 
which this wonderful spectacle gave rise within 
us. The gush of compassion succeeded the thrill 
of excitement; laugh followed sigh. Further­
more, such ones as found the tear of sympathy 
welling in their e3''es during the performance 
need not accuse themselves of softness. Such 
a combination of splendid photo-drama and 
stirring music would affect the most indifferent. 
How much is added to the total impression 
b)'' the efforts of the well-trained orchestra 
that travels with the film it would be impossible 
to estimate. 
"The Birth of a Nation" is an imposing panorama of the Civil War and Reconstruction periods of United States history, correct in every detail. Infinite care was used in the production of such scenes as Lincoln's assassi­na;tion and liee's surrender, and we see them on the screen exactl}?" as American annals narrate them. So realistically is the whole depicted that the interest never wavers. Tensely we watch the Ku Xlux Kllansmen gallop across the country to the rescue, while fair Beauty languishes in distress. With sinking hearts we see the personal bodyguard leave his post behind Lincoln's box, because we know what is to follow. Cheers rise to our lips as we witness the remnant of a gallant Confederate regiment charge hopelessly against their entrenched fellow-Aniericans. Entirely superfluous lumps find their way to our throats at the sight of a stricken mothier's repeated sacrifices for the Xost Cause. We leave the horrible glory of the ;battlefield to look upon the afflicted family -gathered at home to bieseech the Almighty's ,help for their loved ones in danger; or to 
mourn over the loss of one who lies alone on the 
battlefield, forever oblivious to War and its 
attendant sorrows. 
The cast of the picture is a noteworthy one, 
aU the important roles being well filled. On the 
program we find such well-known names as 
Henr}?" Walthall, as the dashing Southern 
colonel; LiUian Gish, Miriam Cooper, and 
Wallace Reid.~ The last-named actor's appear­
ance was short but crowded with action. He 
it was who handled ver}'' effectively a coterie 
of negroes in true William-Farnum style. 
Mae Marsh's appealingly pathetic portrayal 
of the little sister, who to save herself from 
dishonor found it sweet to enter the opal 
gates of Death, is, to oiu mind, one of the 
prominent features of the film. Other notable 
character dehneation are the roles of Mr. and 
Mrs. Cameron, Austin Stoneman, Silas Lynch, 
and L3''dia Brown. 
Truly every American should see "The Birth of a Nation." It has the power of stirring one to his most patriotic depths, as was Mdtnessed by the uncontrollable enthusiasm of the Notre Dame audience. Toward the crushed South we can feel nothing but honor for their sincerity, admiration for their struggle, and sympath}'" for their defeat. 
As an offset to any ill-feeHng that might arise against the negro race, the latter part of the picture gives us gHmpses of the work that is being done in various institutions toward educating a]?.d refining the emancipated African. We should also remember in this regard that the freedom-crazed slaves were supported and incited by the diaboHcal white men, known as carpet-baggers, who sought to further their own interests at the expense of nationality, reHgion, and all that man holds dear. 
"The Birth of a Nation" is America's answer to the charge that this countrj'" must go to Italy and George Elleine for its magnificent screen spectacles. • To the genius of D. W. Griffith we owe the most inspiring feat of photography in the history of animated pictures. His mind conceived the stupendous idea, his unlimited abiHty carried it out. Mr. Griffith is an artist in his line as much as any great -painter, sculptor, etc., ever was. The remark­able night battle scenes; the gathering of 

the clansmen; 
^i 



TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Local News. 
—^The Kansas Citj'- Club have chartered 

a club car on the C. and A. Ry.for their trip 
home at Christmas. 
—^The class in cartooning under Mr. O'Connor 

is proving to be voxj popular. Father Eugene 
Burke, C. S. C, is enrolled in the class. 
—The second and third degrees wUl be 

administered at the meeting of the local chapter 
of the K. of C. Sunday evening. Fort}'- can­
didates were recently given the first degree. 
—^The date for the Military Ball has been 

set and the work of preparation for this resur­
rected event is being actively and capabJy 
pushed under the direction of Kmmett Walter. 
—Brother Alphonsus has on hand a con­

siderable number of stick pins that have been 
turned over to him. A "Working Principles 
of Rhetoric" b}'- Gemmig is also listed among 
the articles found. 
—^The instruments for the Junior Band arrived Monday evening. Tryouts and practices by the eager candidates began Wednesday. The Carrollites taking up the work are under the super^'ision of John Minavio and Frank Carey. 
—B}'- virtue of a notice from the office of 

the Prefect of Discipline, all students are 
absolutely forbidden to go on the lakes at the 
present time. Notification will be given 
when the ice is considered strong enough to 
support the- skaters. 
—Professor Lenihan is now drilling the members of the Dramatic Club in the various roles which they will assume in the next play to be given in Washington HaU. The play chosen, "The Marriage of Kitty," is a modem society comedy drama. It will be produced in the latter part of January shortly before examinations. 
—^The University wishes to thank Mr. Charles Allardt of the Orpheum in South Bend, and also Mr. Harvey Kimz of the same city for the use of rectifiers for our motion picture machines, without which it would have been impossible for us to have witnessed "The Birth of a Nation." 
We are grateful also to Mr. Barnes of the Oliver Opera House for his management of the whole performance and his interest in making this" movie play as perfect as possible. 
—Notre Dame students will welcome the announcement that Michael Calnon and George Hull are soon to open a real cigar store in South Bend. "HuUie" and "Mike" have long been loyal friends and stanch supporters of Notre Dame; in victor}'' and in defeat they have always been with us. This year they evidenced their support by accompanying the team on its trip to Texas. With "HuUie" and "Mike" behind it the new store cannot fail to be a success. It is to be located on Michigan Street and will be opened about February ist. 
—^At the regular meeting of the Day Students'" 
x4LSSOciation on Monday afternoon, the president 
was authorized to appoint a committee to have 
charge of the next dance of the association. 
This affair will probably be given on the 
evening • of Wednesday, January 12th. 
At the same meeting final preparations 
were made to send the basketball team to-
Fort Wayne on the evening of Tuesday,. 
December 7th, for the. first game of the day 
dodgers' schedule. Athletic-manager Conway 
was authorized to make the trip with seven men. 
Plans were also formulated for the organi­
zation of a relay team to compete with the 
relay teams from the various halls in the races 
between the halves of the Varsity basketball 
games. Assistant athletic manager Finch 
win have charge of the relay team. 
-^-With the showing of the wonderful picture 
"The Birth of a Nation" at the University, 
an interesting fact comes to light. 
Frank W. Holslag, one of our students, has, 
among many other interesting papers, an 
original ritual and also the secret code with an. 
explanatory sheet of the famous KuKlux Elian. 
These rare articles were given to Mr. Holslag 
by a close friend. Col. G. C. L. Stansel, now-
deceased, of Pickens County, Alabama. He-' 
was one of the organizers of "that splendidl 
society that did so much to eliminate the-
sufferings of the South during the dreadful, 
days of the Reconstruction. 
A detailed article describing the Klan and", its work and some of the trials of the southern people may be supplied by Mr. Holslag at a later date. 
As this information comes directly from people who were acting characters in this period, andirom one Avho has lived with these people, and who is from those districts, it should, be very inteiresting. 
Safety Valve. 

More trouble than ever has been taken this year to pick all-Hall teams that wall show the various stars hidden beneath the smoke of interhall conflict. The Editor has considered eveyone, and after carefully weighing their merits has selected three teams which speak for themselves. 
FIRST TEAM. 

Bernard Heffernan L E Bxownson Simon Rudolph L T Sorin Robert Bushman Carr L G Day Student Erich Hans DeFries C Sorin AUerton Dee R G Walsh Mark Hackett R T Brownsou Harry McCoUough R E Walsh Tip Hogan Sorin 
Q Earl Hawxhurst Walsh 
LH Elward Haskens Brownson 
RH Robert Sellick Carroll 
F 
SECOND TEAM. 

Oberwinder St. Edward 
LE 

Ford St. Edward-
LT 

Sharp Day Student 
LG 

Garlick Brownson 
C Spears Brownson 
RG Abbott Holy Cross 
RT Windoffer St. Joseph 
RE Lightfoot • Q Brownson Wolf L H Day Student 
Lamb -Bro^vnson 
RH Shepard F Brownson To Bernard Heffernan of Brownson goes the posi­tion of Left End as he has undoubtedlj^ earned it for neatness in arranging his books and perfect enuncia­tion. He has a high voice which penetrates like a hat pin and he would find little trouble in throwing kisses to opposing players which would so bewilder them as to make them useless. While they were in this coma he could easily carry the ball to the opposite goal post if he did not get homesick on the way. Simon Rudolph has been picked for left tackle on account of his gall. He has a forty-two centimetre mouth capable of shouting forth five hundred words a minute. All opponents must succcumb to his nerve, otherwise he would bribe them and attain the goal. He has never handled a football and probably couldn't distinguish one from an ice-cream freezer, but if one were given him he could be sassy enough to make people flee from him and in this way he could secure a touchdown. Robert Cushman Carr is the only perfect lady on this year's eleven, and has been selected for left guard for his ability to guard or to care of children. He is perfectly charming, Tiis manners are lovely, and perhaps no one is better at crochetting than he. His ability to look bored has been a consideration in choosing him. Erich Hans DeFries is by all odds.the best center on account of his stretch. It is said that he is able to Istretch the distance from one goal post to the other. "He has an adam's apple on his neck as big as a footfall land would have his opponents guessing where the ball was. The only possible hope for his opponent would 
•fae to carry a nut cracker—Erich is afraid of them. 
Allerton Dee has been chosen right guard in spite 
of the fact that he was picked last year for ail-American 
pest. His proficiency at eating soup is the chief 
factor considered by the judges. The fact that he 
never .shaves and seldom gets his hair cut is in his 
favor and in everybody else's way. No one could 
endure his company for a whole game and his oppo­
nent must therefore run awaj': enabling Al to make a 
touchdown. 
Mr. Mark Hackett is a blonde who has a complexion 
like a freight car and has been given the position of 
right tackle for his ability to argue on both sides of 
a question at the'same time, without touching either 
side. He has a voice that sounds like the last gurgle 
of a bath-tub which would scare away the opposing 
player. His first name "Mark" sums up his disposition. 
We have placed Harry McCollough at Right End 
for his ability at finding holes. A man that has found 
a hole large enough to admit him into Walsh Hall 
at 10:30 without being ^discovered by the prefect 
should certainly be able to squeeze through an oppo­
nent's line. Harry is perhaps the trickiest player in 
the game. 
For quarterback we have chosen "Tip" Hogan, 
because he has only about a quarter of him in the back, 
three-fourths of him being in the front in the form of a 
breadbasket. He is swift and buoyant and could go 
around the field like a butterfly, shouting signals, 
forming interference, and.blowing his nose, all at the 
same time. His head is full of cube roots, arches, 
surds and absurds and no opponent could ever, hope 
to fracture it. Our one difSctdty would be in getting 
football pants to fit him, we coidd, however, clothe 
him in a tube skirt. 
We have chosen as halfbacks. Earl Hawxhurst and Elward Haskins on account of their sweet dis­positions and deep blue eyes, as well as their ability at parting their hair. Both are social lions and from the way Earl Hawxhurst holds the hands of the fair ones we know he would never let go of a football if it were once given him. Both have corns and like apple sauce. 
To Robert SiUickof Carroll Hall we have granted 
the position of fullback. He will undoubtedly be able 
to go anywhere if he is not pinched for moping on the 
way and it would be just like him to turn up behind 
the goal posts at the most unexpected times. He has 
been with us for the last three months and has not 
discovered yet where the trunk room is, nor is he 
aware that there is any dome at Notre Dame except 
his own. His beauty would bewitch the opposing 
team. 
On the second team we have placed Oberwinder 
and Windoffer as ends thinking that they would equalize each other and even the team. As tackles, we have'placed Ford and Abbott and have Car as a substitute if Ford should not be able to go. We have placed Sharp and Speare as guards because of their ^ ability to pierce the line of any team. Pearson will substitute for them. Garlick.is the.strongest man on the team and would easily hold his own and drive back his man/ . Lightfoot is our choise for quarter and, we have placed. Lamb and. Wolf at the halves but have been careful to put Shepard between them 
so that he will be near lamb arid keep off wolf. 
'•f> 
m 




