ame 
DISCEQUASI-SEALER-VICTURVsVlVE-QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS 
VOL. LIV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER II, 1920. No. II. 
Notre Dame Football, 1920. 
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, 21. 

AUDE D from coast to coast by recog­nized critics as the greatest of the great lt.,~HS«^ in footballdom, Rockne's super-eleven 
of 1920 has just emerged from another season with nothing but victories to its credit. Even the most conservative are forced to con­cede to this wonder eleven and-its peerless mentor first place when ranking the country's best gridiron machines of this year. 
A bewildering aerial, attack, herculean line-plunging, faultless team play, brilliancy in. both offensive and defensive play—these were some of the many merits shown consistently in the games against Nebraska, the Army, Indiana, and the other conquered elevens, each of which had saved its best energy and strategy for the clash with Nofre Dame, for the reason that a victory over, the Gold and Blue would have meant well-deserved acclaim wherever the pigskin pastime is discussed. To Rockne and Halas and their valiant knights of the grid­iron—^whose classic work has given to Notre Dame a superior position in the world of athletics—^is due the appreciation of every loyal friend of the' University. 
Kalamazoo College, the first opponent of the season, was •easity overwhelmed by the Varsity, 39 to .0. The Wolverine men, confident in con­sequence of their recent victory over the Michigan "Aggies," came advertised as able to give the Gold and Blue a real test in its initial -battle. It was evident from the very beginning of the contest, however, that they-were not equal to the task. They fought tenaciously up . to the very last minute of play, but it was a fight against impossible odds. To mention the Varsity men whose play came well up to the expectation of the "fans", would be to give the whole personnel of the team. The feats of that afternoon augured well for victory in the bi§ 
battles to come. Wynne toted the oval across the enemy's, zero line for the first touchdown of the season, following several titanic advances by the battering backs of the first string.. Early in the second quarter these same backs again 
. began to evidence greed for yardage, and Gipp,t hurtling through the Wolverine tacklers, struck a spectacular gallop for thirty yards to another touchdown. Mohardt and Coughlin, who were substituted for Gipp and Barry, plunged time ' after time through the Kalamazoo wall and had advanced the ball to the opposition's four-yard line when the half ended.. In the second half there came a shower of touchdowns-r-by Barry, Brandy, Kasper, and Mohardt.. In.the last quarter Kalamazoo. failed miserably in its attempt to save itself via the air route from-a zero defeat. '. , , . 
The next visitor to Cartier field, the.Western Normal eleven, also succumbed to the crushing 
' offensive; and impregnable defensive play of the Varsity; Except for occasional flashes of fairly good defensive work, the Normals weare pitifully helpless, w^hether in their effort to curb .the advances of Rockne's plunging aces or in their failure to make an impression on the Varsit}'­forward wall. The final score, 41. to o, would undoubtedly have been doubled had it not been for heavy penalties imposed upon N-otre Dame and the extreme humidity of the after­noon. _. 
• Rockne's men underwent their first real test of the season when they met the beefy team, of Nebraska at Lincoln. Coming from behind in the latter part of the game, they drove their way through, to a. i6-to-7 victory over the Comhuskers, before the largest crowd that has ever attended a game in that city. As a result of the game, Notre Dame's great coach was acclaimed by the attending gridiron critics "the wizard of footballdom." The two teams fought evenly through the first half, the Varsity using pass kfter pass in the hope of getting within striking distance of the R,ed and White 
./ 

I62 '^e Noure 5ame §'cholascicr 
posts. The Notre Dame aerial tactics having spectacular affair, sprinkled with sensational 
been temporarily frustrated, Gipp, Castner, novelties in strateg}^ The "Valps," in proud 
and Barr}'- began a series of off-tackle crashes possession of a three-point lead at the end of the 
and flank dashes which took the ball 'to the "first period, Avere worn to shreds in their bitter 
Cornhuskers two-feet line. Here the Westerners attenipts to withstand the continual pounding 
fought like madmen and held. Shaw spilled of the local shock squad. Early in the second 
the attempted punt, ^vhich was recovered by a period, Rockne withdrew his Reserves, and soon 
Nebraskan behind his goal line, thus giving the Valparaiso defensive was crumbling before 
the Varsit}'^ two points on a safety. the onslaughts of the Aces. Plunge after plunge 
In the second period Nebraska began a won- netted long gains. Wynne went over the top, 
derful drive toward the Notre Dame bar and followed by Gipp a few minutes later. Gipp 
with the ball on the three-«* found the enemy trench 
yard line, Hubka substi­again in the fourth quarter, 
NOTRE DAME RECORD, 1920 
tuted for Hartley at left-and "Johnny" Mohardt 
half, charged through for KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Coach wriggled over for the WALTER HALAS, Asst. Coach fourth touchdown of-the 
a touchdown. The Neb­

FRANK COUGHLIN, Captain 
raska stands w^ent wild game, following Hayes' wdth joy over the spectacu­-N.D. Opp. scoop of Kercheval's wild lar advance of their heroes. delivery. 
Kalamazoo College 0 The Varsit}!-, nothing 1 Eastern critics are still 
at Notre Dame 39 
daunted by the success sounding the well-deserved 
Western State Normal 0
of the Huskers, began a praises of the "Hoosier" 
' 

at Notre Dame 41 
counter-charge, wdth Mo­eleven which invaded the hardt and Wynne, who Nebraska 7 East late in October, and, had just entered the game, at Lincoln 16 for the third consecutive bearing the brunt of the time, defeated the Cadets 
Valparaiso 3 attack. Twice the Corn­of West Point, this time 
at Notre Dame 28 
huskers held for downs, by taking the Army eleven Army 17 
and again the Varsity re­into camp, 27 to 17. "It sorted to the hurling game. at West Point 27 was the struggle of a The Gipp-to-Anderson Purdue 0 good team against a great combination netted sixty one," writes a prominent 
at Notre Dame 28 yards with two perfect New York critic. '' Beaten, 
Indiana 10 
throws, putting the ball though the Army was by 
at Indianapolis 13 
well into Nebraska terri­a score of 27 to 17, the tory. Then the ball was Northwestern 7 glory of a -gallant fight tossed successfully to the at Evanston 33 against a too powerful enemy's two-yard line, Michigan Aggies 0 foe remains with West 
ft 

and Brandy on the second Point. Against a machine 
at Lansing 25 
play cut his way through capable of pounding its 
Total Score 250 44 
the Red and White line. way for successive marches In the third quarter Gipp's X of seventy-five and eighty dash for a touchdown, in the execution of yards the Cadets went down—as almost any other Rockne's yearly "stunt" prepared especially eleven in the East must have if it had faced the for Nebraska, was disallowed because of holding. Notre Dame eleven that took the field today." The last touchdown of- the game followed a Concerning the classic struggle the New York series of scrappy counter-skirmishes, Gipp Times said: "The Notre Dame team wliich going through tackle for the score. The game played rings around the Army this afternoon ended with Nebraska resorting in desperation was a big, shifty, well-drilled football machine, to an overhead attack. which looked as strong as. any football team 
A week later eight thousand spectators seen on an eastern gridiron this season. ... . crammed into Cartier field and saw the "Rock- The Hoosiers were a better developed and a men humble the grim, fighting team of Val­better trained eleven and played the kind of paraiso,*?? to 3. The contest was a bitter, football which sends a crowd pf spectators into 
realms of excitement every minute." Notre Dame supporters at the game were legion, and they saw a Gold and Blue eleven fighting in its best manner; the}'- saw Gipp, hailed as the peer of football champions past and present, run, punt, plunge, and pass with scintillating ac­curacy; they saw Mohardt cleave the Cadet wall in every-attempt; they saw .'Wynne smash through the tackles in heroic drives; they saw Captain Coughlin, Kiley, Anderson, Shaw, and Smith, each put up a game which astonished the East; they saw in action a team which showed itself "about thirty points better than the Army-and at least one touchdown better than any eleven in the East." 
The fracas with the Boilermakers of Purdue was the piece de resistance of the Notre 
dashed, and dodged through a maze of black and Brown tacklers, eighty yards to a touch­down; he hurled to Kiley and Anderson for gains totaling one hundred-thirty yards, and sent the oval squarely between the Purdue sticks three times for goal points. Grant's fifty-yard canter, the most sparkling bit of work in the game, gave the Varsity its first score. Captain Coughlin, "Hunk" Anderson,' Shaw, and Smith opened great holes for Wynne, Barry, Mohardt, Coughlin, and Castner, who either walked peacefully through the Boiler­makers' defense or trotted around the ends, advancing for good gains on every play. 
Next came the gruelling battle with Indiana, which taxed all the resources of the Champions. For three periods the Stiehm squad with sen-
THE SQU.A.D OF 1920. 
From lop and left: Voss, Kelly, Walsh, DeGiee, Phelan, Cotton, Mixon. Oberst, Kennedy, Castner, Mehre, Garvey, Halas, Rockne Gipp. E. Anderson, Dooley, Kiley, Barry, Brandy, Smith, Coughlin, H. Anderson, Larson, Hayes, Shaw, Grant, Wynne D. Coughlin, Thomas, Wilcox, Carberry, Logan, Seyfrit, Kane, Prokup, Mohardt. 
Dame home-coming day. Long before the opening whistle it was necessary to hang up the 
S. R..0. sign, so great was the holiday crowd that-surged into Cartier Field. Old "grads"— six hundred strong—^were there to see the hero gridders of 192o treat Purdue 28 to o. " Red'' Sal­mon, all-timeNotreDamefullback,FrankHering, "Red" Miller, Tom Shaughnessy, and other magnates of the past graced the President's box and shared with the team the noisy acclaim of the student'' rooters.'' Ease and ever-increas­ing power characterized the Varsity play. The Boilermakers approached the Notre Dame goal once-^in the first period when they faced the Reserves, who fought them evenly for more than a third of the game. The versatile Gipp was' at his best in this contest. He twisted, 
sational football held the Varsity scoreless. Coach Stiehm—who has been an assiduous observer of the Notre Dame system, particularly during this last season—^was more than ready to meet the Notre Dame attack with clever strategy. Gipp, the object of practically every defensive play, did superhuman work despite a fractured shoulder. The Indiana stands were rampant with joy when the last quarter opened with their team ten points in the lead, but the "Rockmen" had already worked themselves up to the occasion late in the third quarter and now one of the grittiest rallies ever staged by a Gold and Blue eleven was on. Barry had taken Mohardt's position and "Johnny" had relieved the battered Gipp. At the end of the thir period Barry, the hero of the day, and Mohard 
'&5e Houre dame ^hda^cie 
had succeeded in cutting the Crimson defense and working the oval to the enem3'^'s one-^'-ard line. The fight of the Indiana line had worn out. Gipp returned to his position and on the first snap of the ball carried it across, and then added a point with his toe. Another N. D. drive followed the kick-off, . which W^mne hustled back in a thirt3'--two 3'^ard' squirm. The Notre Dame offensive battered and beat back the opposition till the ball was on the Crimson two-jj-ard line, whence "General" Brandy carried it to a touchdown. Anderson, Smith, Coughlin, Shaw, and Larsen' fought desperate^ on the line against heavy opposition. Kile}'' and Anderson worked smoothly on the flanks, and Barry, Mohardt, Wynne, Castner, and Brandy performed in meteoric manner in this severest battle of the campaign. 

It took McDevitt's big Northwestern squad onl}'-a few minutes to realize that the pigskin argument with the Gold and Blue "would not be a tournament of roses." Practically the. whole student-body of Notre. D^ame attended" the game and, together with the hundreds of Gold and Blue. enthusiasts from South Bend and Chicago, accorded the N. D. men roj'^aL support. The "l^arsit}'- scoring spiree' began in the second quarter and the whistle at the.end of the haff found NyiD.. with fourteen ^points.: Grausnick, the'-Purple hero'of:the day, got away, to a pretty, dash intheHhird period; netting the . Bvanstonians a touchdown and a goal. The "Rock" demons opened up again, and in a twinkling Anderson was across the Purple line with the ball. Gipp, handicapped with his bad shoulder, entered the game in the last quarter and was given a rousing ovation. Each of two passes by this wonder man, one to Kiley and one to Barry, resulted in a touchdown. The tussle ended with Notre Dame again charging close,to the Purple posts. 
Finally, the Varsity Reserves were victors over the Michigan "Aggies" in the Turkey Day joust, 25 to o. "Danny" Coughlin crashed through an army of Green and White grapplers eighty yards to a touchdown from the first kick­off. In the third quarter Castner made the "Aggies'" goal line for two touchdowns, and in the final period "Eddie" Anderson galloped across, following his recovery of a blocked punt. 
Notre Dame, by virtue of her remarkable record of eighteen victories, with no defeat and no tie in the last two seasons, has won a promi­nent place in the athletic sun. With her in­domitable fighting spirit she has shown herself uniformly capable of rallying with superhuman vigor in the face of impending defeat, as' in the Indiana battle. The team of this year had all the qualities which have characterized the great Gold and Blue squads of the past. It has not been by good luck at all but in virtue of sheer superiority that the great machine of 1920 has credited itself as being "the best teain in the business this year." 
The Mighty. Men of 1920. 
CAPTAIN FRANK E . COUGHLIN. Notre Dame feels that she, has no words with 
which to properly speed in farewell the one who has proved himself so truly "a Notre Dame man," Captain Frank Coughlin. Certainly there are no words of eulogy relative to leadership which he has hot deserved: As leader of Notre Dame's undefeated eleven of 1920—he has raised the standard of cap­taincy, which has always been held high in 'Notre Dame athletics, and he has surely, approached " very closer to..the ideal. .. The coaches, the faculty, the aiumni, and the students of Notre Dame will all 
testify in unmodified terms to the respect and confidence accorded him. The captain's tact, good sense, and spirit have been in large measure responsible for the tiptop morale of the squad through thick and thin. He has been a unanimous choice for All-State and AU-Western honors by critics both friendly and unfriendly. His work in the one appearance of his men on an Eastern field was such as to startle the football oracles of the East into raptures of praise for himself, 
-Rockne, his team, and for Notre Dame teams in general, and the chorus of praises has not yet subsided. The undefeated champions of 1919 siu-ely picked "a big man for.a big job" when they fell upon "Little Willie" Coughlin to captain jthe squad of 1920. 
GEORGE GIPP Four years ago last September a modest, almost timid freshman from Laurium, Michigan, 

reported to Coach Fitzgerald on Cartier field 
as a candidate for the first-year football team. Some two months later, after football scribes had diligently but vainly searched the football guides, records, and encyclope­dias, the name of this youth was being flashed over every telegraph wire in the States. This unknown freshman had in a game between the Freshman team and Kalamazoo College come within three yards of the world's record for the drop­kick. He was no other than our own George Gipp. Today he is the same unassuming person, although he is now about as well known as Jack Dempsey or "Man-'o-War." In reading 
of this peerless half-back this year the schoolboy of the backwoods on the frontier was wont to ask, "Who is this guy, Frank Merriwell?" The season just finished has shown this greatest of players at his best. In one game after another he "showed them how." The ground he gained ' against Uncle Samuel's men at West Point exceeded the number of yards made by the whole Navy team in their victory over the Cadets. Why was Gipp better than any other half-back in America? The answer is easy to any one who saw him play last season. In executing the forward-pass he was as accurate as De Oro. He has. the kicking ability of a Brickley, an Oliphant, and a Cofall, and unless Notre Dame was behind her own thirty-yard line the opponents' goal was always in danger. To stop Gipp on the run was about as easy as damming Niagara, and an opposing runner needed an aeroplane to get by him. Finally he has the head of a Dorais, in which every play was precisely staged before its execution. The selection of Gipp by the numerous football critics as the greatest of the half-backs of this year has been all but unanimous. Not a few of them are of the opinion that the gridiron has never known a player superior to him and a few urge that it has never witnessed his equal. 
CHESTER ALLEN WYNNE. If there be a fullback in the West who is better than "Chet" Wynne, it will be a hard task to prove the fact to any student of Notre Dame. Young, modest, unassuming, aggres­
sive, determined, the Kansas Cyclone has obtained an enviable place in the hearts of all Notre Dame men.' On offense "Chet" has no equal and he is a power on defense. He was a star at running interference for'the fastest backs in intercollegiate football. His real forte, how­ever, is line-plunging. In the Nebraska game he took the heart out of the huge "Cornhusker" linesmen by his terrific plunges, which netted him large gains every time he struck the line. It was in the Army game that this ijs-poimd fullback, the hghtest man playing the position this fall, proved to the Eastern critics that Notre Dame had a running attack as well as a strong aerial attack. Wynne crashed the Army forwards consistently for gains. His fleetness and his wonderful leg-drive made it almost impossible to stop him either in the open field or on the line of scrimmage. The Eastern critics after witnessing the Army game pronounced Wynne "the hardest hitting full­back of the year." "Chet" has, we are most happy to say, another year of intercollegiate football. . 
NORMAN CHRISTOPHER BARRY. 

In the passing of Norman Barry from current college athletics we lose from Notre Dame a unique gridiron figure. He began his develop­ment as an athlete more than a decade ago on the Minim team of St. Edwards Hall; in his growing years he played in Carroll and Brown-son Halls, then on the Freshman team, and finally on the representative eleven of his school. His remarkable success on the football field has been attributed to his love of action and clean fight. It has been easily observed also that the big days and minutes of • his career were made just when the game seemed lost and the fight hopeless. We remember well how he started the rally against the Army in 1919 when the score stood ominously against Rockne's men, and how later in the same year he brought the team to life in the contest against the Michigan "Aggies," who were playing the superior eleven of Notre Dame to a standstill. Finally, it was "Norm" who, with the aid of Mohardt, late in the game turned what seemed to be certain 


/^ e Noufe 6ame §choIagcic 
defeat into \dctor3'- in the terrific contest with the. Crimson of Indiana on November the i3tli last at Indianapolis. At Kvanston Barry pla3''ed against Northwestern the game of his career— before hundreds of his "home-town" friends, gathered from all parts of Chicago to see him in action. WHiatever the amount or quality of the 
. opposition, it was rare indeed that Barr}'^ did not go forvv'-ard when called upon. This typical "fighting Rockman" leaves the gridiron with the best wishes of every Notre Dame man for success in whatever- he may undertake. 
EDWARD GEORGE DEGREE Following in the footsteps of his noted brother "Cy", Edward DeGree stepped out upon the gridiron and" won his monogram in the first year of his eligibilit)'-. He was a veritable. pillar of concrete from shoulders down and alive with a football instinct which carried him into the very heart of every play. With his combination of brains and brawn, he was a source of worr}'- to every ambitious fullback who attempted to pierce the Notre Dame line. As a punter Eddie has few superiors. Time after time in the Northwestern game he relieved the dangerous situation • b}?" his long twisting spirals. He is scheduled for a climax next fall. 
DAVID VINCENT HAYES 
The dought}?- Dave Ha5'^es has been a success­ful candidate for end position on three great Notre Dame teams. The small boy from Con­necticut has uniformly given to Notre Dame the best that was in him. In 1917, his first 
year out, he made his coveted position and performed bril­liantly. Early in 1918 his fight was transferred to the Argonne front in France, where he func­tioned heroically under the dir­ection of Uncle Sam. Severe wounds, received in a single-hand combat with a • .dozen Huns, prevented him from being 
•in the final touchdown '' over there." He promptty returned to his school as soon as he was sufficiently recovered from his wounds and gamely fought for his old position at end on the team of 1919. Hard 
work and sheer grit won for him, despite unusual competition and the handicap his injuries im­posed. This year Dave put up the same old fight for his place and to the jo}'^ of all who know him has won his third monogram. "Hon­est" Dave Hayes is the never-say-die type of fighter that 5'^ou read about and a man of whom Notre Dame is particularly proud. 
HEARTLEY WILLIAM ANDERSON. 
Heartle}'^ Anderson, whose slogan, "I'll do the best we can," was adopted as the watch­word of the whole team, formed a perfect run­ning-mate for "Morrie" Smith. A veritable Roosevelt Dam on defensive and the proverbial "Big"Bertha" on offensive, "Hunk" has proved at least a match for any of his opponents: He is the t5'-pe of man who plays the game for the sheer love of playing—a man who would rather fight for the Gold and Blue than eat, a man whose happiness comes in the glor}'- of his team and of his school rather than in plaudits for an}'" individual achieveinent of his own. That a man of this stamp is of incalculable value to the morale of a team goes without saying. Anderson started with his "pal," Ojay Larson, in 1918, and his sterling heart, remarkable strength, and admirable grit will be at the service of Notre Dame for the last time in 1921. 
JOSEPH RALPH BRANDY 
- It was in 1915 that the Gold and Blue aban­doned the slam-bang, line-rush type of football; since then it" has depended in great measure and with unique success upon the condition, speed, and intelligence of the men." Since 1917 Joe Brandy, of Ogdensburg, New York, has been the brain and nen'-e center of the. most "effective attack and defense devised in recent years, the Harper-Rockne system, Joe has signalized his career as field general of the Gold and Blue teams by leading them in four successful invasions of the East. Three of these resulted in victories over" the-Army, at West Point, in \vhich Brandy did much more than merety give orders; the fourth proved a triumph over Washington and'Jefferson—^which was de­nominated "a pure Brandy vic­tory." . Joe .has the unique honor of -ha-ving led two successive Notre Dame squads to eighteen victories in succession. On 


^ e Noure dome Schokiwnc i67 
more than one momentous occasion the fortune of the day depended upon the "Little General's" quick judgment, and he was always there with the right play. His coolness, counsel, and courage never failed at a crisis. Coach Rockne designates him the ideal quarterback, "cool under the heaviest fire; sure to send the right play to the right place, and a clean,* inspiring fighter of the unbeatable type." 
FREDERIC ADOLPHUS LARSON. Everyone knew that Larson would be a flying buttress in Rockne's stone-wall line of 1920. He had proved himself in the fall of 1918 when, in his first year of collegiate football, he won his monogram with ease. . This year there were sore and weary Nebraskans, tired and humbled Cadets, and weak and staggering sons of Northwestern whose broken spirits could testify to the power of this mighty center far more convincingly than the pen of any critic. It may be reasonably urged that Larson was the best center in Hoosier football—the sport-writers who chose their champions from "Mau­mee Tech" and "The Montague School of Nursing" to the contrary. Notre Dame will be most fortunate in having " Ojay's'' services for two more years, during which time he may be depended upon to do his part in making our record of the future a worthy sequel to that of the past. 
ARTHUR ALOYSIUS GARVEY. "Hector" Garvey, the star among the Notre Dame Freshmen of 1919, substituted this year for Captain Frank Coughlin and developed into a most reliable understudy. Although a novice in rank, he played the game like a veteran whenever the opportunity was given him. He was a demon on offense and impregnable on defense. He had a habit of opening huge holes in opposing lines, as if they were made of tissue paper, and it was not an infrequent sight to see him break through and throw an opposing back for a big loss. He was in the Indiana game only a few minutes, but during that time he nailed the "Hoosier" backs in their tracks on five consecutive plays. For a large man, stand­ing six feet and one inch and weighing two hun­dred and fifteen pounds, he is exceptionally fast in getting down the field. under punts. Arthur has two more years to play, and if his past performances are a presage of what is to develop, his name will go down in the Notre Dame hall of fame as one of our greatest linemen. 
MAURICE FRANCIS SMITH To the Notre Dame men of the- last three years the name "Morrie" Smith means grit, courage, and fight. The phrase "only a guard" has come to be an affection­ate tribute to this modest '' Movie." Smith is in the completest sense "a Rockman," for be it known that this stellar midget of the line, hailing from Central IIH­nois, played his 'first football under the Miracle J.Ian at Kotre Dame. His career really began in the memorable game against the team of the Great Lakes Training Station in the war time, in which contest he proved conclusively that size and weight are by no means the sole qualifications of a real linesman. With one year of experience the little guard became a recognized star and in 1919 was placed or mentioned in all the best selections of All-Westerners. This year he has credited himself with the critics of both East and West as "the lightest big-time guard in the United States.". It goes without saying that he has provided for himself a lasting place in Notre Dame's hall of famous athletes. 
PAUL HENRY CASTNER 

Paul Castner, the rangy son of St. Paul, Minnesota, was the star fullback of the great Freshman eleven of 1919. He is the natural football player of the titan type. He has a left foot that is already educated to an advanced degree, and on several occasions this fall did Coach Rockne sigh, "Another good ball gone wrong," as Castner's trusty south toe sent the spiral down the field. His attack is varied; his line-plunging is a feature in every game in which he takes, part, and his open-field running is sensational for a fullback. He had of course during the season much brotherly opposition in the persons of Wynne and Phelan. This peerless triumvirate of fullbacks has been the despair of opposing teams. Paul has two more years in which to make himself All-American, and if he continues to grow as during the las two years, even Mr. Walter Camp will be able to observe in the West another Eichenlaub. 
i68 'S^e Norre bame Scholastic ' 
ROGER JOSEPH KILEY. ­
Playing his second season on the Varsit}'-, Roger Kiley easily lived up to all that had been expected of him and by his star work enrolled himself without question in that goodl}'- company of famous Notre Dame eiids. He. was one of the main men in Notre Dame's noted aerial attack and established for himself the reputa­tion of being one of the best receivers of the forward pass in the countr}'-. His defensive work was of the highest order, and—^to quote the New York critic on his and Ed. Anderson's ability, to get down under punts: "Fast! wh)'' the}'- couldn't come an}'" faster and be human!" "Rog" was honored with a place on the second, All-Western team of the Chicago Daily. News and has been picked for several -All-State selections. Notre Dame is indeed fbrtunate in ha^^ng this man eligible for another year. 
EDWARD NICHOLAS ANDERSON. 
Eddie Anderson has fulfilled the duties of regular end on Notre Dame teams for the last three seasons, but never before has this star shone as during this fall. He. was on the re­
.ceiving end of many a sensational forward-pass from Gipp,. and ,not a few touchdowns made by the "Rockmen" are credited to this husky right end. As a defensive player Eddie has no superior and his skilful manner of evading inter­ference and of breaking back into plays is a spectacle admired by friend and foe alike. He shares with Kiley the tribute of the Eastern critics, "the best seen in the East this year." He is given a place on Snyder's second All-American and is named as member of several of the All-State and All-Western teams. .The big lowan has another year to play, and-the Notre. Dame followers have no niisgivings con­cerning, the right end on-the team,-,of 1921. 

LAWRENCE TIMOTHY SHAW. . "Buck" Shaw is too modest and unassuming to be a hero, but he.ranks with, that legion of great warriors, whose prowess is unsung. He has .received comparatively." few. press notices; .yet he is .regarded by ids teammates, as a truly great tackle. As fast as any end,.a.hard, low tackier, and an .effective charger, he .played, a. wonderfully consistent, game - throughput the season. . "An end playing alongside-Biick Shaw on defense is.a mere observer,".is-what, one ,wise wing-mah says about Shaw. j. He fits : so naturally and neatly into-; MsVpositipn that; 
his .work lacks that sensational element which often secures all-star mention. This might}'­lineman will be back- nex-t-^year for his final season with the Gold and Blue. 
JOHN HENRY MOHARDT. 

It is generally agreed that Johnnie Mohardt was one.^of the best backs of the year. He alternated with "Norm" Barry as Gipp's running-mate and always held up his side with ease. A grouiid-gainer of unusual ability, he slipped around the Army ends for distances of from five to twenty-five yards. He was.fast and elusive, and once started Mohardt could outdistance any opposition. Nebraska, Indiana, and North-western as weU as the Cadets wit­nessed his work with mingled feelings of ad­miration and despair. • He has another year of eligibility, and with Danny Coughlin as a part-r ner for him, Notre Dame is little worried about her prospects for another brainy, smashing,­
• title-winning back-rfield when next October rolls around. 
DANIEL MARTIN COUGHLIN. 

Not a few are of the mind that Danny Cough­lin will be a worthy successor of the famed Gipp. There is at least no doubt in the minds,of those who have seen him perform on Cartier Field that he" will develop into a star of the first magnitude. In open-field running he has few equals. He squirms, dodges, ducks, and shakes off tackiers in whatever number "they come at him—^just how, no one seems to know. The season just finished .was his first year with the Varsity. Last year he was one of the mainstays of the star Freshman; eleven. Football is not his only sport j as he is a star performer on the basketball court and, after the fashion of his Northlandj he plays hockey.. We expect to hear much more about him before the end of the year and all about him next fall. 
WILLIAM LAWRENCE Voss.. Last year Bill Voss came to Notre Dame and. played center for^thelFreshmen. When, however, he returned in September looking so well corn-fed. Coach Rockne discerned in him the makings of a wond^urjtackle,-and.accordingly shifted himfroih cehtei' to the,exalted position.of tackle opposite^Hector Garvey.^This brace;of fighters: taught liianyCopppsing .teams, the fine points, in football, ajtidjtriore than: dhce their. fight paved the -way-to yictpry-for ttiie^Vafsity. Big of frame 
and fast of foot, Voss has the ideal build for a prominent member of Notre Dame's "wrecking tackle. His chief accomplishment is his abiHty crew, ".the second-string - line. He-worked in' on the offense; and many a time during the the primary defense with 190 pounds of season did he pave the way for a substantial beef and excelled in hard, low tackling that gain by one of his backs. On the defense he is a hurt. Offensively, too, he was. ever on the alert terrible tiger, crashing down the interference and was effective at blocking and passing, of the opposition-and making'the tackle easy Already a player of Varsity calibre, the big for the end. His o nly fault—and this one he fellow promises even better ^football next year, does not confess—is the persistent size of his He came to Notre Dame with no previous appetite. He has two more years, in which he football experience, and the season of 1921 is destined to make for himself d name among the will be his third, last,.knd best season on the few." Gold and Blue squad. 
DONALD CHESTER GRANT. JAMES RYAN DOOLEY 
"Chet" Grant returned to us this year after As was anticipated by all who knew him, playing the game "Over There" as a lieutenant. "Big Jim" Dooley came through . and ap-He weighs but 150 pounds, but his lack of avoir- propriated his second monogram this season, dupois was no handicap when it came to running Carrying with- all grace more than two hundred back punts, at which task he is as elusive as an pounds of avoirdiipois and possessing a keen eel. Individuall}'- Grant is a dangerous man at knowledge of the gridirpn game, the Massa­all times, and as a field general he ranks with chusetts giant was a very obstinate, problem the best. In the Purdue and Northwestern for every opponent that met him. Whenever a games, particularly, he showed every quality play was shot at the Notre Dame line Dooley that bespeaks a star on the gridiron and, need- was invariably and effectively there to stop it. / less to say, Rockne can be sure that the pivot He has another year ahead of him, and the big position will be well taken care of next fall. fellowisnotthekindof athlete that disappoints. 
GLEN MICHAEL CARBERRY. • EARL FRANCIS WALSH. 
"Judge" Carberry literally made himself Earl "Katie" Walsh played with the handicap felt whenever a play started in the direction o'f of a bad knee, and as'a* result failed to do all left end. With his 1S5 .pounds of high-power the brilliant things predicted of him by those muscle he regularly knocked the opposition into who admired his strong line-plunging and fierce submission with his hard tackling. "Judge", tackling of last year. Walsh'did not have started four games with the second string, and sufficient opportunity to prove himself, par-in each instance put'up a smashing defense, ticularly on offense. In those games in which which took the fight out of the opposing backs, he took part, he- either was not called upon to 
•When on other occasions he was substituted for carry the ball often or was hurt in the first few Kileyheplayedstrongfootball, especially on the minutes of play.» Nevertheless, as his knee im­defense. At West Point he was in the game for , proved so .did his work, and toward the dose only a few, minutes, but the Cadet, backfield of the season he was showing flashes of his old was painfully aware of his brief presence.' 'As a form in every kind of play. Willingness to help defensive man "Judge" 'has few'superiors, the-other' fellow is a virtue of consequence in and with two more years to pla}'- he-should fobtball as elsewhere, and Walsh possessed this develop into an end entitled to take'rank with virtue in a "high" degree./ He has another year Notre Dame's greatest wing guardians. ;"" ' toVcompete, and if he gets ah. even break in 
„ ' ,^ • •••-. ' -luck^" Kate" can be counted upon'to bear out. HARRY TAMES MEHRE. . . ,. :. .-:-i, t. -r ­
•' -; -.,.. . in'1921'the prophecies 01 1919. 
Harry, "Red", Mehre played center..like-a . -. . ...-, . . i regular.whenever called upon during the season. .. RoBERa^^RiCHARD. PHELAN.^ Off-the field he was one of the squad's comedians, , The third of-Rockne's great trio. of strapping but his sense of. humor .did not appeal to.the fullbacks:, is Robert Phelau. Together.. with backs who attempted to gain-through the middle Paul; Castner he ..backed up.- Wynne' in. most of the- line when he was facing them.- He gave masterl}'-. fashion, and witk them hewill return 
•mors than .one aspiring. line-plunger_a, tragic next year to.inake that positionjn the Notre bump.' Big, strong,. and> fast, .'.\Red." was. a Dame backfield.still/stronger.-,.As a consistent" 


I70 'Sfie Nocre ^me Schdascic 
punter and a shifty, crashing line-plunger, he has brought cheers from the Gold and Blue supporters in ever}'- game on Cartier field this year. Chicago saw some of his work in the game at Evanston and Lansing watched him plow through the line of the "Rustics." 
The Coaches. 
COACH KNUTE K . ROCKNE. 
In the football world "Mr. Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at Notre Dame, is entitled "the Miracle Man of 1920"; by the student-body of the University he is considered "the greatest coach of all times"; to his football men on the field he is known simply and affec­tionatel}'- as "Rock." As a student-athlete, as' assistant-coach, and finally as head coach, he has a record of ten successful years at Notre Dame without a break,. With not a little reason has he been caUedr the "Victory Builder." In his first three years at Notre Dame, 1911 to 1913, the football team did not- sujffer a single defeat in twenty-two games. In his last 3;ear as player he captained the great Western eleven that startled the East, West, and South. As assistant-coach from 1914 to 1917 his Hnemen did more than their share in the remarkable - victories of that period. When as successor to Coach Jesse Harper he took full charge of Notre Dame athletics in the war year of 1918 the football conditions were hope­less, but Rockne would not see them so. He drilled a squad of men averaging only 160 pounds and made of them one of the most heroic of Notre Dame's fighting teams. This midget Varsity fought the heavy Nebraska to a tie in the mud, won from Purdue, Wabash, and Case, and for a surprise climax tied the team of the Great 
Lakes Training Station, the national champions of that year. In 1919 Rockne's squad of veterans romped home without a defeat or a tie—in such an impressive way as to disconcert most of the adverse critics. If any further success was needed to prove Coach Rockne and his Notre Dame system, it has been superabun­dantly provided this year. The success which has so uniformly attended his work Coach Rockne modestly and sincerely attributes to 
the quality of the material provided him, to 
the unmatched morale of the squad, to the 
superb leadership of such captains as Frank 
Coughlin, to the natural • football instinct of 
such players as Gipp, Brandy, and Smith— 
summarily to the clean living, clear thinking, 
and hard fighting of his men. These no doubt 
have been important elements in Notre Dame's 
football successes, but we believe that they 
would have been of little consequence without 
the coaching of Rockne. His great elevens have 
on every occasion, and especially in the more 
trying ones, reflected the keenness, determina­
tion, and sportsmanship of their great coach— 
showing themselves true "Rockmen." 
In order to make sure that our Notre Dame 
estimate of Coach Rockne is not an overestimate, 
we have asked several experts in football for an 
opinion concerning his work, and, with gratitude 
to them for kindness in sending us their words, 
we take great pleasure in quoting here their 
several - testimonies: 
Major C. D. Daly, football coach at West 
Point: 
"The Army-Notre Dame game has always been one of the best of the large intersectional contests. We have always found the Notre Dame team to be most excellent sportsmen, playing the cleanest and hardest of football, good losers and generous winners. It is very easy for me to testify to the high ability of Mr. Rockne. The clean sportsmanship of his teams and the high-grade, winning quality of their play leaves no doubt that^Mr. Rockne is among the very best coaches in this country. It is a pleasure to so testify." 
Walter H. Eckersall, sports-editor of the Chicago Tribune, writes to us concerning Coach Rockne: 

"It has been my pleasure to know Knute Rockne ever since he broke into football fame as a member of an eleven in one of the prepara­tory schools of Chicago. In those days, when he never dreamed of coaching an eleven which today is rated among the powerful of the country, Knute was a keen observer. It was his ability to absorb conditions and to reason for himself that Jhas really made him the coach who is rated among the leading gridiron mentors of the country. Even in his preparatory-school days there was little about end-play he did not know, and when he entered Notre Dame he was considered a superb flank-player. 
'' When Jesse Harper was in charge of the discover, .and were, a well-balanced team. football situation, Rockne was generally; sent Although Coach Rockne turns out smart ioot­away on Saturday to scout games. Dn a ball teams, this is the best team I have seen.". number of occasions I acted as an official in George E- Keogan, athletic director at games which he saw, and in our talks after the Valparaiso' University: ^ contests I learned that he had a thorough inside "One of the greatest pleasures of my season knowledge of Notre Dame's future opponents. at Valparaiso University w.as the opening of In other words, he was one of the best football relations between Notre Dame and Valparaiso. scouts I have ever known. Since he assumed' We feel that we played the best team in the complete charge of football, Rockne has con­West. One cannot give too much credit to the formed to Western Conference rules.. Notre man responsible"^or this great machine. Notre Dame athletic teams are respected wherever Dame .refiects ^ the spirit of Coach Rockne. they go, and there are not a few who would Game, alwa;5'-s a fighter, and always a live like to see the institution a member of the sportsman, Coach Rockne has accomplished Conference. •» wonders at the Catholic school and has placed . 
"Coach Rockne possesses all the traits which Notre Dame's athletics on a plane with those go to make a clean sportsman. Unlike some of any university in the West." football coaches, • Knute never criticises the C. - L. • Brewer, athletic director at the work of a football official, and he is a. pleasant Michigan Agricultural College: • ­man to work for. He can take a defeat just as "I have, known Coach Rockne personally gracefully as a \n.ctor3'-, and the outside world since his first entrance into Western football, appreciates such a character. Coach Rockne and I know him to be a clean, hard-playing, "^ knows football and he knows how to teach it.-square sportsman. It is m}?- judgment that the Notre Dame will continue to have strong elevens 1920 Notre Dame football team is-one of the so long as he is' at the helm, and it is hoped strongest. and most versatile teams ever de­that some day in the near future, Notre.Dame veloped either in the East ox in the-West." will be a member of the Western Conference." Harry Gill, Athletic Director at the University 
B. 0- Stiehm, athletic director at the Uni-of Illinois:' versit}'- of Indiana: "I have often been greatly impressed with the 
"In all my personal and athletic relations success 'of ' the Notre Dame football teams, with Mr. Knute K. Rockne I have always found especially,.within the last few seasons. - With him a gentleman and a sportsman. Athletic only a comparatively smaU. student-body to relations- between Notre Dame and Indiana choose frorh and playing a schedule that neces-* were resumed primarily because of Mr. Rockne. sitates-niuch travel, it seems to me that Coach I know that he will insist upon standard eligi-Rockne's success with the team is truly remark­bilit}'- rules and play clean, -hard, advanced able." : -' ^ ^ * football. The Notre Dame team of 1920 is T. E. Jones, football coach in the University one of the very best teams Notre 'Dame has of Wisconsin: ' . • . ever had, and I have been; watching Notre "I have known Mr. Rockne for the last six Dame elevens for many 3'ears. The team is or. seven- years—during athletic relationships clever, ;aggressive, and of championship caliber. between our institutions. -I am glad to say that I hope it will be possible to continue our athletic I regard Mr. Rockne as one of the best coaches relations." . . : in the business. He has been remarkably sue-. 
N. A. Kellogg, athletic, director at Purdue cessful in both football and track, and has made University: . ^ . .• • ;. > • and .kept Notre Dame a leader in athletics." , 
 '' You can say for publicity over my name that James Phelan, football coach at the University Notre Dame has a great football team and a of. Missouri: . • ". -. , ' • ." fine coach." -'' ,4 • -"Coach Rockne'by his untiring effort," his 
A. , G. Scanlon, football coach • at Purdue. superhuman:energy,:and by his driving, forceful University:. -. --'r '• • '-personality;-, combined with, a thorough knowl­"I wish to sa}^ that the Notre Dame: team edge of: football, has succeeded in developing on the day that we' played them; November one of the greatest football teams of all times. 
6th, was. the best-looking^team that I have ever He has not only developed a great football team, seen. They had no weaknesses that T.-could but.:hie.has been* responsible :for establishing, 

 '^e Noicre Same ^hdascle 
the famous Notre Dame system. Notre Dame is one of the few colleges with a real football system, and Coach Rockne is the man who has developed this system to its present state of perfection. Notre Dame plays a brand of football all her own, and the players ar,e of a type found only at Notre Dame. There is that fight, drive, and slam-bang attitude about the team which results in a style of game which can be imitated elsewhere but can be produced only at Notre Dame. Rockne has originated and developed a style of end-play which has not been equalled; his line-play is clever and is distinctively his own st3de; and the outstanding feature of a Notre Dame team is the brainy, 
n r 1 J n ij.- 1. 1 -u-v.
reckless, fearless, and fighting back which typifies what we coaches call Notre Dame or Rockne football. Captain Coughlin and George Gipp are without doubt the two greatest stars in present-day football, and praise from me would add little to the gloiy^ of these two All-American men." 
John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indian­apolis Star: 
"Football is the great college sport. It is played, patronized,, and appreciated in even the remotest sections of the United States. But there is not a place so far removed from Indiana as not to have heard of Notre Dame football teams and the snowy-haired coach, Knute K. Rockne. For years and years Notre Dame has been noted for its football teams; but in all those years, even with Eichenlaub, Rockne, Feeney, Dorais, and myriad others, no team has created such a record as the 1920 team—^uiider the tutelage of the former Notre Dame star-performer, Knute K. Rockne. For two years the team has sailed along without a defeat and has been looked upon ^as the championship team of the Middle West. With each succeeding game added glory has been piled up for Notre Dame and Hoosierdom. Not only have Notre Dame football teams advertized the University, but in doing so they have heaped laurels upon our Hoosier State, 
((/ 
'The Notre Dame team has been referred to as Gipp and Co., but it is far from this, for with the peerless half-back removed from the contest, the Irish machine has been able to smother all opposition. With Gipp in harness and playing as he knows how, the Notre Dame eleven is practically unbeatable. It is a well-oiled 1920 football machine that Notre Dame boasts of and one that every alumnus, student, or 
 follower of Notre Dame may well be proud of."  Charles W. Bachman, football coach at the  Kansas State Agricultural College: 
 "Notre Dame football and K. K. Rockne  have become synonymous. The team of 1920  stands out pre-eminently as the peer of any in  the country. No teain in the history of Notre  Dame football has brought more glory to the  name of our Alma Mater and to its able mentor  than the team of 1920. The clock-like precision  which characterized the play of the Notre Dame  team during the past season stands out as a 

 glowing  tribute  to  the  coaching  ability  of  
 '' Rock.''  
­ COACH  _^ WALTER  ^^ HALAS  /  

 The announcement came last summer after  two weeks of uncertainty in which the Univer­ sity Athletic Board considered the qualifiea­ tions of a whole corps of candidate coaches  whose records are on the tongue-tip of every  follower of athletics, that Mr. Walter Halas  was commissioned as adjutant to field-marshal  Rockne. Within the few months since then the  new coach has proved himself on the football 

field to the satisfaction of all at Notre Dame,  He was, however, engaged primarily because  of his prestige as a mentor in baseball. 
 Last season Halas was an Integral unit on the  pitching staff of Bloomington in the Three­ Eye League, where his variety of delivery was  such as to dissipate the hopes of any .300  aspirants who faced him, and his work attracted  not a little attention from major-league experts.  He is a graduate of the University of Illinois  and a three-letter man in Illini athletics. He  played end on the eleven that cleaned up the  rest of the Conference in 1918, which fact  accounts for one monogram; his consistent  performance during three years in the Illinois  basketball five earned for him the second letter,  and as a slab artist on the always powerful  nine of the Champagne school, he starred in his  favorite sport for the third "I." It is said that  when Halas took leave of his Alma Mater  Coach Zuppke for the first time in his criss­ cross career used his handkerchief for lachrymal  purpose. The Somerset High School in Ken­ tucky was gainer by his graduation from col­ lege. The quality of the young coach was sooii  advertized when Somerset took the bliie ribbon  in four departments of interscholastic sport, 
 Thus Rockne's running-mate came to Notre  Dame with a reputation worthy of the Gold 

'^ e Moure ©ameSchoiascicf ^73 
and Blue standards. The press, from Maine to Montana, concedes Notre Dame to be on the gridiron the best in the West and as good as anything anywhere else, and Coach Halas is using his energy and skill with a view to having the Varsity execute its basketball schedule wdth equal success. 
As for baseball, which is the forte of the new coach—Halas himself is of the opinion that a few more candidates for the big leagues will be forthcoming next spring, w^hich reminds of the fact that Notre Dame has graduated from her diamond more major-league men than any other college campus. —STARRETT-STEVBNSON. 
The Notre Dame All-Honor Men. 

It has not been possible, of course, to give explicitl}'" in this issue full credit to the men of the football team which represented Notre Dame on the gridiron of 1920. By way of compensation we present here a few of the many mythical elevens on w^hich Notre Dame men have found place and notice of the" honor­able mentions received by others, as indication of the*regard in which "the Wonder Men of 1920" are held in the football world. 
Mr. Walter Camp's annual selection of AU-American football teams no longer elicits the blind faith which was accorded it some years ago. There has been year by year a growing sentiment against the provincial one-man judgement as to who is who on the gridiron. Nevertheless, Mr. Camp's list is still more highly regarded than-that of any other single critic. His selection for this year, appearing this week in Collier's Weekly, bears witness to the force of public opinion. Mr. Camp, in company with some other critics, has at length come to realize the' quality of Western football, which until a year or two ago was openly made little of in the East. • This year for the first time Mr. Camp selects for his first team a player from a Catholic school. That man, George Gipp, of Notre Dame, has, no doubt, won his way to this distinction by force, of previous, unanimous, and nationwide selection -of him as one of the 
. very greatest football players of all time— which verdict would have made utterly ridi­culous any All-American selection which ignored him. In addition to naming one of Notre Dame's great eleven for a first place, Mr. Camp ' gives "honorable mention" to Eddie Anderson, Maurice Smith, John Mohardt, and Captain 
Coughlin. In ranking the ten best teams of the season the, Yale mentor places Notr.e Dame third, after Princeton and Harvard. Ohio State, Notre Dame's only rival for first honors in Western football, is given ninth place on the list. The following are Mr. Camp's selections: 
FIRST TEAM 
End—Carney, Illinois 
Tackle—Keck, Princeton 
Guard—Callahan, Yale 
Center—Stein, Pittsburg* 
Guard—^Woods, Harvard 
Tackle—Scott, Wisconsin 
End—^Fischer, Georgia Tech. 
Quarter—Lourie, Princeton 
. Halfback—Stinchcomb, Ohio 
Halfback—Way, Penn State 
Fullback—Gipp, Notre.Dame 


SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
' Urban, Boston College E. Ewan, Navy Goetz, Michigan • T. Voss, Detroit Wilkie, Navy G. Breidster, Army Cunningham; Dartmouth C. Havemeyer, Harvard Alexander, Syracuse G. Trott, Ohio State McMillan, California T. Dickens, Yale LeGendre, Princeton E. MuUer, California McMillin, Center Q-Boynton, Williams Garrity, Princeton H..B. . Haines, Penn State Da vies, Pittsburg H. B. Leach, Virginia M. I. French, Army F. B. Hortveen, Harvard 
Dean Snyder, for the National Enterprise Association, presents^ the following as first and second AU-American teams of this year: 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM 
r 

MuUer, California R. E. Weston, Wisconsin Keck, Princeton R. T. Scott, Wisconsin Tolbert, Harvard R. G. Acosta, Yale Depler, Illinois C. Alexander, Syracuse Grifiiths, Penn State " L. G. Woods, Harvard Sonnenberg, Dartmouth L. T. Smoot, Oklahoma Carney, Illinois L. E. E- Anderson, N. D. McMilUn, Centre Q. B.' Lourie, Princeton White, Oklahoma R. H. Haines; Penn State Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio Horween, Harvard F. B. Crangle, Illinois 
Mark Kelly in the Herald-Examiner, of Chicago gives as his 1920 All-Westerns: 
FIRST TEAJI SECOND TEAM Weston, Wisconsin R. E. Belding, Iowa McGuire; Chicago R. T. Scott, Wisconsin Smith, Notre Dame R. G. Huffman, Ohio Depler, Illinois C. Bunge, Wisconsin McCaw, Indiana L: G. Taylor,* Ohio Coughlin, Notre Dame L- T. Goetz, Michigan Carney, Illinois L. E. Hanny, Indiana Devine, Iowa Q. B. Brandy, Notre Dame , Stinchcomb,: Ohio R. H. Fletcher Illinois' Gipp, Notre Dame L.. H. Oss, Minnesota' Crangle, Illinois F. B. Kyle, Indiana 


John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indiana­



iU ^ e Hocre 6ame S'choiagcic 
polis Stai', offers these two selections as the first and second All-Indiana: 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM Anderson, Notre Dame L. E. Carmen, Purdue Milstead, Wabash L. T. Claj'^pool, Purdue Couglilin, Notre Dame L. G. Huugate, Butler Ogden, DePauw C. Pierce, Indiana Rislej', Indiana R. G. Smith, Notre Dame Birk, Purdue R. T. Leonard, Indiana Hanny, Indiana R. B. Kiley, Notre Dame Elingslover, Franklin Q. B. Mathys, Indiana Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Englehard, Rose Poly Mohardt, Notre Dame R. H. Galloway, DePauw Kj^le, Indiana F. B. Wynne, Notre Dame 
In connection with these selectio.ns Head gives honorable mention to Shaw, as tackle, to Larson as center, to Brandy as quarterback, and to Barry as halfback. -f 
These selections are published, here in full because the}"" do more justice, we believe, to the Notre Dame stars than an}'' others that have come to our notice. Lack of space does not permit our publishing the numerous other selections which give,place to one or more of the Notre Dame players, and the best we can do is to show summaril}'- where credit has been given. 
George Gipp is refeixed to in connection with the All-Star Eastern team selected by Robert Maxwell for the Philadelphia Public Ledger as the greatest half-back of the season. He is placed as half-back: on the Buffalo Courier's All-American; the Boston Post's All-American, by Neil R. O'Hara; the New York Evening Telegram's All-American, by Vernon Van Ness; 
"the New York News' All-American team, by John Poster; the New York American's All-American, by Arthur Robinson; the Washing­ton Evening Star's All-American; the New York Tn&MweV. All-American;' the Chicago News' All-American, by' MacLean; the Philadelphia Bulletin's All-American; the New York Herald's All-American, by Daniels; the United Press' All-American, by Henry L. Farrell; the Associa­ted Press- All-East,-West-and-South back­

1 field, by Grantland Rice; the Chicago Tribune's All-Western, by Eckersall; the National Enter­prise^ Association's All-American, by Dean Snyder; the Chicago Herald-Examiner's All-Western, by Mark Kelly; the Chicago Journal's All-Western; the South Bend Tribune's All-Western, by Kessler; the Indianapolis Star's All-Indiana, by John W. Head; the Youngs­
\iown Daily's All-American, by Jack Vieock;' and Carl A. Reed's AU-American. There 
were no doubt .some dozen other All-Americaii selections honoring the great half-back which have not come to our notice. 
Frank Coughlin, Notre Dame's great ta'ckle 
.and captain, is placed at his position on: the All-American of the Chicago News, hj MacLean; the All-Western of the Chicago Tribune, by Eckersall; the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, by Mark Kelly; the All-Western of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis Star, by John Head; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis News, by Hendricks; the All-Indiana, of the Indianapolis Times; and on the second All-American of the Youngstown Daily, by Jack Vieock. 
Eddie Anderson is given'place at left end on Dean Snyder's All-American, and on the All-American of the New York Herald, by FarreU; on the All-Western teams of the Chicago/ownm/, the South Bend Tribune, and the Chicago Post; on the All-Indiana teams of the Indianapolis Star, the Indianapolis News, and. the Indiana­polis Times. 
Maurice Smith is honored with his position as guard on the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, by Mark. Kelly; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Tribtme, by Eckersall; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Post, and of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; on the first All-State of the South Bend Tribune, and the second All-State of the Indianapolis Star, by = John W. Head. 
Farrell, in" connection with his selections for the New York Herald, gives special praise to Kiley, Shaw7 Mohardt, Wj'^nne, and Brandy in comments on the Arm}'' game, rating.them as the best seen in the East in 1920. Mark Kelly, in the Herald-Examiner placed Brandy as quarterback-for his . second All-Western team, and named Kiley, Larson, and Wynne ias deserving honorable inention. The first team of the Chicago Post included Gipp and Couglilin; the second team, Kiley, Anderson, and Smith. Wynne led the fullbacks for hpnor­able mention. (Mohardt was mentioned for halfback, and a half column was devoted to Gipp's remarkable work, jack Vieock of the Youngstown Daily -^ic^s Roger Kiley for his 

-All-American, along with George Gipp, and gives honorable mention to Brandy, Mohardt, and Wynne, The Chicago /owrwaZ'^ All-Ameri­can selections placed Gipp and Coujghlin as: regulars, arid mentionejd: favorably E^ley >nd 


'^eHocre 6ameSchoiagcic ilS 
Anderson at end, Smith at Guard, and Barry at half. Eugene Kessler, of the South Bend Tribune chooses E- Anderson, Coughlin, Mo­hardt, and Gipp for his first All-Western, and Kiley, Larson, and Smith for his second. On his first Indiana selection he gives places to E. Anderson, Coughlin, Larson, Smith, Kiley, Mohardt, and Gipp, and on his second to Shaw, 
T * 
H. Anderson, Brandy, and Wynne. Thomas Hendricks of the Indianapolis News indicated Notre Dame's monopoly on "the State laurels by selecting for his first team Coughlin, Smith, Gipp and Barry; for his second, E. Anderson and H. Anderson; and for his third, Mohardt. Honorable mention is given to Carberry, Kiley, Brandy, and Wynne. 
Lawrence Perry of the Associated Press publishes in the Cleveland News one of the most consistent of the All-American selections. George Gipp is the only Notre Dame man selected, but Perry mentions Brandy as the directing force of the smoothest-running offen­sive and hardest defensive team in the country. His eulogy of Gipp is of a piece with the many already pubKshed in these columns. 
Finally, we are sure that no selection of star teams will be.of more interest to our readers than the following one made by Coach Rockne for the SCHOLASTIC and for the American Sports Publishing Company, of New York City, which issues Spaulding's Football Guide, containing the most authoritative selections of the year. It will be obvious to those who have followed closely the football of the country throughout. the season that Coach Rockne's elevens present the maximum in offense and defense. And we do- not believe that_ anyone knowing who's who in football will think him partial' to his ownmen. TheseareCoachRockne'stwoline-ups: 
ALL-AMERICAN ALL-WESTERN Urban, Boston College L. E. Weston, Wisconsin Coughlin, Notre Dame L. T.Coughlin, Notre Dame Griffith, Penn State L- G. McGuire, Chicago Alexander,. Syracuse C. Wallace, Ames Sedgwick, Harvard R. G. * Smith, Notre Dame Keck, Princeton R. T. Voss, Detroit Carney, Illinois R. E- Devine, Iowa Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Gipp, Notre Dame Davies, Pittsburg R. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio 
Robertson, Dartmouth F. B. 'White. Oklahoma 
Without any reflection on the selections made, it may be believed that several other of the Notre Dame champions would have received All-Western or,All-American honor if they had been distributed in several schools. 
—E. M. STARRETT, '21. 
Varsity Verse. 

LocHiNVAR—1920 MODEL . Young Lochinvar came out of the West And met the Army clan; He cleaned 'em up and beat 'em dowh^— The .gang yelled: "He's a man Who's a man? . -Smithie! Brandy! .Coughlinl". 
The Army lad gave all he had. 
And did it well, say we, • 
But not enough. Young Loch was mad—, 
The gang yelled: "U. N. D. 
Rahl Rah! U. N. D..Rah! Rah! 
•Who Rah! Who Rah? 
• U. N. D. Rah! Rah!.-' . ." Team—Team—Team!" 

He plunged and fought and ran and kicked 
Without a trip or- slip; •­
And all-American was picked— 
The gang yelled: "O Boy, Gipp! ' , 
Give my clothes to the Belgians." 

What mattered it, that first-half score. 
To a lad who loves a fight? 
He plunged the line, round ends he tore ^ 
The gang yelled:' -'He's all right! 
Who's all right? 
Mohardt! Kileyl Eddie!" 

Go, east, go west, go north; go south. 
He treats 'em all the same. ­
When evening comes the same old gang 
Yells: "Sis-s-s, Boom! Notre Dame-
Hunk, Wynne, Larson, Shaw! 
Barry! Grant! Rah! Roh! 
^FRANK WALLACE­
"HUNK." 
When the Gold and Blue is forced to fight And battle for a yard; Who tears a hole in the opponents'. line? * Why Hunk, our-fighting guard. 
But when our team is driven back 
And a victory seems so hard;. 
Who tackles the runner for a loss? 
Why Hunk, bur fighting guard. ~ 
Now if I were a Walter Camp And wrote of the men.who starred. Upon whom would-I heap my praise? Why -Hunk; our fighting guard.—^H; E- MCK. 

"PRAESXAMXJS" ' From out of the West Came Rockne's crew, .­A band of warriors tried and true; ; = They answered '-'here"; the whistle blew-7-- .r Cadets you did your best— " .. : : . ..­The fighting team from Notre Dame Once more wrote victory 'round its name.-^^A> j . c. 

^ & Houre Same ^eholascie? 
The Master of the Megaphone. 

If at some time in the years to come the Dome should prematurety cave in, Alfred 
N. Slaggert will be held responsible. It was his power of persuasion in calling forth at the football gamesthe " U. N. D." in such a volume of voices as to tr};-several of the venerable structures on the campus. His interpretation and direction made of the. "Notre Dame Victory-Song" a classic of the gridiron. The spirit of the men of Notre Dame has always been remarkable; but it has been reserved aU these years to Cheer­leader Slaggert, however, to make through the medium of perfect organization the most of that' spirit for the big athletic purposes of 1920. He has acquitted himself of the task as only Slaggert could. The enthusiasm of the "old­grads" at the Home-coming was testimony to the success of the demonstration at the Purdue game, as at all the others. 
Captain Coughlin, who from the beginning of the season persistently urged the importance of enthusiastic student support as condition of a successful team, has spoken most highly of Slaggert's work. Needless to say, the Captain has voiced at the same time the sentiment of all the other members of the team. The finely lo3'-al cheering in the Notre Dame gymnasium on that anxious Saturday afternoon when Rockne's men at Indianapolis were fighting the fight of their lives to overcome in the latter half of the battle the lo-to-o lead which Indiana had scored upon them was a manifestation of spirit to be remembered. Those valiant warriors knew, instinctively that the men here were heart and soul behind them. Did not Eddie Anderson at the very crisis of the conflict which was going all wrong appeal to the team—"Men, for love of the pigskin, remember the kids at home!" This was perhaps at just the instant when Slaggert in a manner which inspired the completest confidence was calling upon the host at home for the cheer demanding two touchdowns—and at the end of that last quarter of the desperate fray the score stood 14 to 10 for Notre Dame. 
Slaggert's practice of holding frequent "pep" meetings in the football season is one that must be continued. It was at these gatherings that the real organization was effected. They are indeed the only practical way of securing the unity necessary to a cheering body that will really help a football team. 
Nor must we fail to acknowledge the good work done by Slaggert's assistants, Emmett Burke and William Eckerle. In all the games at home and in the Northwestern game at Evanston they performed as understudies in leading the cheers, and it is they who will be in charge of the work next year. 
To the freshman of this 3'-ear the spirit of the football season may seem to have had its part as a matter of course; but to the older men and to the alumni, who have had the oppor­tunity to compare this spirit with that shown in former years, it seemed in no small degree extraordinary, and these men are superlative in their appreciation of the work of "Al" Slaggert.—^. w. MURPHY, '23. 
Sometime Ago and Now. 
As a student in high school a few years ago I watched a Notre Dame team beat the team of Wabash College in football. Such a victor}'­was by no means an unusual event in the grid­iron experience of Notre Dame, but to me it was one of extraordinary interest, because I had never before seen a Gold and Blue eleven play. Through the sporting columns of the local press, I had been for years a close follower of university athletics, and my own abnormal appetite for active competition in all kinds of sport had engaged my leisure time. It happened that on the day of this game between Notre Dame and Wabash our high school had no con­test scheduled, and so the players together with their coach and manager eagerl}'' accepted an invitation to be present at the college event.­No doubt it has been in some measure by way of consequence that a considerable number of the members of our Tan and Blue squad have been since then more or less prominently identified with college athletics. Our captain, Walter Kirby, was a brother of Harley Elirby, the famous Irish half-back of old. Berkey and Wolfe our ends, later played at Notre Dame: '' Cupid'' Gross; our bouncing left guard, is now well known to many-Notre Dame students by his combined attractions of personality, interest in Notre Dame football, and skiU as a "res­taurateur." Nicar, Rowe, and Whitaker after­wards starred atstate schools. 
The particular season ih , which the game occurred was that which saw at Notre Dame such men as"Red" Miller, "Pete" Vaughan, "Gap" Edwards,V"Rosie" Dolah, Matthews 


'^ e Noure &ame Scholasrie 
the Indian, Don Hamilton, the giant Ralph Dimmick, Philbrook, and other noted members of the famous team. Wabash at that time properly played under the title of "the Little Giants," a sobriquet earned by their hard, slashing tactics on defense. Their team of 1909 was said to be a good exponent of this style of play, and hence a hard battle with Notre Dame had been predicted, the Northern school, of course, ruling the favorite. The Gold and Blue men, whose exploits had already captured the long-distance admiration of us all, gave us at close quarters every promised thrill. They won the game by a large number of points, although the Giants put up a valiant fight from beginning to end. 
The conclusion of the contest found me in a state of football frenzy, from which I have not yet perhaps altogether recovered. At any rate, I could see "Red" Miller vividly for days pounding down the field from punt formation. his straight arm leaving the ground of his ir­regular wake strewn -with Cayou's tacklers: There was no fence post or tree along the stretch from the entrance of the" university grounds to the street-car line wsich I did not 
.push aside with right or left jab as I cleverly evaded its fancied dive at my legs. It was all I could do to restrain myself from doing the flying tackle at every standing object along my route. Then" I could see m3'-self electrifying future high-school audiences with my lensational blocking. This ambition to become efficient ininterference was inspired in me by sight of the Indian, Matthews, smashing those Wabash ends, who were presumptive enough to start down under the punts. So badly battered was the end who faced "Matty" that toward the close of the game the Notre Dame Star had his man on the ground not two yards from" the line of scrimmage on every kick. In accordance with the style of play which characterized the Notre Dame's defense, the end took care of the oppos­ing end on punt formations and put him out of the play as soon as he could get to him. As the ball was passed to the kicker "Matty" waited, with lowered head, in order to assure himself that a punt was actually intended; then, as the punter's leg swung upward, he gathered himself and made .a short, fierce dash toward his opponent, who stood as if petrified by his approaching fate." With a terrific leg-drive and plunge of his body "Matty" knocked the I/ittle. Giant completely off his feet. He  repeated this procedure on every punt, thus  giving Hamilton the chance to get started on  his many brilliant returns. I decided then and  there to treat somebody in that fashion in my  next game, but I believe, that the resolution  did not materialize; at least, no casualties for the  opposition were reported after our engagement, 
 Only the humilitating realization of my  meagre physical proportions prevented me from  visualizing myself as another "Pete" Vaughan,  whose powerful line-hitting and blocking made  him the All-Western man of that year and,  in spite of a bad knee, a potent factor in Prince­ ton's offense two years later, 
 Since the day of that game two more Millers,  brothers of "Red," have come to Notre Dame,  played their game, and gone; two Dorais'  have risen and retired; a Rockne has come to  play and stayed to coach; an Eichenlaub has  joined the football immortals of the Gold and  Blue; a Mclnerny and a Murphy, I am proud  to say, were my teammates, before they went to 
fight and die for their country. I went from  Notre Dame with these two into the service,  but had to come back without them,^—came  back to new faces,* new rules, and new ideas,  perhaps, but to the same old spirit. I have  watched one Bergman immortalize the name  in Notre Dame football, have tried to help a  second add to its lustre, and am now happy to  be a fellow-student and fellow-athlete of a  third, who promises to do the name all justice, 
 More than a decade of years has passed since  that Notre Dame-Wabash game of vivid re-'  collection. The interval has been time ample  for any man to make his mark in a practical  world. I have not as yet made any mark.  In being human, I want name and fame. Yet I would not exchange what I have now, this  opportunity to obser\'-e and partake in—^with a sense of experience and appreciation which  only experience can give—^Notre Dame's splen­ did spirit, to enjoy her associations and live  her life—^\'-erily, I would not barter my obscure  place on the football team of 1920'f or that which  the world calls success. I am glad.I came back;  I wish that I could stay. And when I do finally  go for good, I shall ask no greater honor than  to be considered friend and comrade by my  teammates, to have Notre Dame and all her  people ever willing to think of me as having  been true to the traditions of Notre Dame  football—as having been, in my poor way, a Notre Dame man.—DONALD C. GRANT, '22­


'S^e Noure &ame S'eholascie 
Ballade to the Team of Old. 
Let's cheer the team that Avon today— The dreamy field is rife with men Who bore the pigskin yesterday. Yes, all this score of years and ten. Ray Eichenlaub is there again. And Salmon speeds the ball away; Dorais was not mightier when He led the Marquette squad astray. 
Let's cheer the team that won today-^— The glory of the Gold-blue men Until the last day's trumpets play Will linger on, and even then If Peter meets a denizen Of Notre Dame, I'm sure he'll say: 
"Rock, get ji^our huskies out again And put the hogside into plaj-^." 
Let's cheer the team that won today— But Kellj'-'s no comedian. The enemy is Dimmick's prey And Bergman is their suzerain; Red Miller eateth posts, I wen, Pete Vaughn is out to slash and slaj"-: Three hundred burly touchdown men Are back to make red holiday. 
Envoi. 
The Gold and Blue has won again— Our ghosts have held their trysting-day; All hail their scattered brothers when We cheer the team that won today.—M. E. w. 


A Word for the "Subs." 
At the end of a football season, when the scribes vie with each other in paying homage to the outstanding warriors of the time, when paper after paper mth'characteristic oversight "plays up" the spectacular half-back or linesman with photographs, full stories of his life, and little anecdotes of his gridiron career, it is surely fitting that we say a word of the men who do disinterestedly so much in the making of great teams, the men who force the stars to a bril­liancy by which their own is made negligible— the "Subs." The rewards of football, like the rewards of any other struggle in life, are limited. Monograms, for instance, if thiey are to mean anything, cannot^ be given to everyone. who strives to make the team; yet who will say that the man who makes the stout, honest effort is not entitled to some word of recognition. 
Certainly it would be a thoughtless, hea,rtless review of our football season at Notre Dame which did not pay the meed of praise to the valiant "Subs" of Notre Dame. Did they not day. after day hurl themselves against the dummy or into the scrimmage with as much good will as the Varsity fullback? Did they not in game after game pace the sidelines pray­ing for just one chance in the fray? Did they not time and again in the crucial moments of the campaign provide fierce opposition while the regulars took the rest which prepared them for triumph? In justice, they have a goodly share of the credit—"The)'- also serve who only stand and wait." 
There was one member of the Notre Dame squad whose peculiar side-steps while travelling around end and whose grace in evading enemy tacklers earned for him the name of "the floating half-back"—"Red" Shea. Nimble as a circus acrobat and brawn}!- as an East-side policeman, his two remaining years should be as glorious as his crimson top-knot. Contrary to all tra­ditions pf the gridiron, he is a commerce man. 
Constant running-mate to Shea arid bantam half-back extraordinary is "Micky" Kane. He refuses to believe that might is essential to' the gridiron hero. "Micky" is one of the lithe, wiry, Joe Brandy type of players—small but fast as the^ proverbial lightning. During the last quarter of the Purdue game at least, his work was nothing short of brilliant. He has ^ two more years at Notre Dame. Wrhile we are 

" speaking of small men who are mighty players, it is time to introduce George Prokop. Having won for himself a monogram in baseball last spring, and believing that one good game demands another, he went in for football in September and made good from the first. As his position in baseball was at the third corner, what could be more natural for him than-to play end on the football team? He was used in several of the garaes, and will be counted on by Rockne next fall. The subject of his studies at Notre Dame is law, in which course he is now a Junior. Another "nifty" end is "Si" Seyfrit—husky, handsome, jovial "Si." He is a source of unfailing good humor, even when an opposing end is trying in divers ways to blacken his eyes, disrupt, his ribs, and place him on the permanent injured list. His philosophy seems to be that a smile is the best preparation for a forward-pass and a grin the best preventive of a long gain by the foe. In accordance with the ancient habit of Gold and Blue gridders, he is studying law. Cartier Field will be the scene of his athletic endeavors for two more years.' 
Good nature is also the prevailing mood of Eugene Oberst. This man is a worthy product 



Tsfie Nocre (bame Scholascie
 179 

of old, Kentucky, and his six feet of solidity and his kicking on the Varsity gridiron have has stopped many an ambitious fullback from recommended him as a man who can do great bumping through the Gold and Blue line. He things in football. is a guard in all that the name means at Notre Light but fast, and able to break through for Dame. Like his fellow humorist, "Si" Seyfrit, tackles and to throw back the opposing linesmen, Eugene is a sophomore in the College of Law ' Alexander J.,Colgan, of Berwin, Pennsylvania, and will grace the local chalklines for two more has by his football achievements added not a seasons. Notre Dame had a wealth of capable little to his track repute. With the courage to reserve guards. In addition to Oberst, there was range himself with the stalwart fullbacks of "Sarge" Owens, who was a principal in the this year, he took the ball down the field like a unbeatable Miles-Owens combination, of inter- veteran when he got the chance. Forrest Cotton, hall fame last year. Until his retirement early who "subbed" during the season, is pretty sure in the .season due to injuries he showed all the of a gold monogram on a blue sweater next year, punch, grit, and fight necessar)'- to make a great As a tackier he is "fast and certain and he takes linesman. He is a big muscular fellow, with a the bumps of the game in good part, always heart to match, and the student-body sincerely carrying his broad smile with him as he smashes hopes to see "Sarge" back next fall, ready to through the opposing wall. Finally, the tall don the moleskins and take his place among the and lanky Eugene Kennedy, who came to Notre wearers of the big N. D. „ Dame from Lafayette, Indiana, is a good and 
A good'student, always a gentleman, and a dependable center, at which position he promises true representative of Notre Dame on- the to distinguish himself in football quite as tho^ gridiron—^is what we must say of Percy Wilcox, roughly as he did last winter in basketball, halfback. His record since coming here in the —^ENGELS-FLANNERY. fall of last 5'-ear has been one of remarkable • "•• • consistency. He was a regular member of the A Glance at the N. D. Gridiron. Record. invincible Freshman squad of last year; he ' . is quite as regular as a- star student who re- The season of 1920 was Notre Dame's thirty­
/
ceives high grades in every subject in every second year in intercollegiate football, the quarter; and as a regular fellow he is esteemed sport having been initiated here in the spring second to none. We would have done with him of 1887, when the team of the University of briefly by making his middle name "Consist- Michigan came to Notre Dame, played an ency." It is the hope of ever^'-one that nothing exhibition game, drilled our men in the use of may interfere with his returning to Notre Dame the pigskin, and then took them on for a "prac­for the two remaining years allotted him. tice game." Michigan won the contest by a 
Quarterbacks seem to be versatile as a class, score of 8 to o. The last gridiron encounter There is Frank Thomas, for example, who is with the Wolverines"took place at Ann Arbor. not only very agile both physically and mentally in 1911, in which Notre Dame triumphed; 11 to 3. on the football field but is also able to run Since that first game .with Michigan Notre around with the elite on the basketball court. Dame has played 220 games on the gridiron. Again, there is Leslie Logan, of Fort Wayne,' of which she has won 168, lost 36, and tied 16. who feels equally at home on the gridiron, on In those contests she has crossed the"opponents'. the diamond, and between the basketball hoops, goal line for a total of 5,742 points, against a He was big-man on Brownson's champion total of 1,084 for the opposition. Within the basketball team of last year and may be such last twenty years Notre Dame has played 158 on the' Varsit}'^ five pf this season. In football games, won 129, lost 19, and tied 7; within the Leslie has shown exceptional form as a plunger, , last ten years she has played 78, won 67, lost a caUer of plays, and a passer. Leo.Mixon, 6, and tied 5. In the seven games played against all the way from Texas, the tall, lithe, Interhall the Army at West Point, the first of which was center of this year and last, has convinced Coach in 1913, Notre Dame has won 5 a;nd lost 2; Rockne that he is a man who deserves observa- in her 6 games against the University of Neb­tion. Daniel Culhane alsoj of Rochester, New raska she has won 3, lost 2, and tied i; in 11 York, does not need to emphasize.ahy longer the. games against Purdue .Idniversity she has won fact that h^e was the winner of the cross-country 6, lost 3,' and'tied 2; in 11 games with the chase last year, for his plunges, his speed University of Indiana she has won 6, lost 4, tied ^ 

i8o '^ e Noure Same Sieholascic 
i; in the 5 games with Northwestern Univer­
sit}'- she has won 3, lost i, and tied i; in her 
13 games with the Michigan Agricultural 
College she has won 11, and lost 2. 
The Notre Dame eleven of 1920 is the eleventh 
undefeated team to represent Notre Dame. 
Thus more than one-third of all the Notre 
Dame teams have left a record of no defeat. 
In i"903 and in 1899 the Gold and Blue was 
not scored upon. The record for high scoring 
was made in 1912, when Luke Kelley's aggre­
gation counted 389 points against its opponents 
and permitted them only 27 in return. 
Notre Dame's supremacy in Hoosier football 
has not been questioned for many years, the 
Gold and Blue having won the State champion­
ship fifteen times by directly defeating all con­
tenders for the title, such as Indiana, Purdue, 
and Wabash. In ten other years in which the 
schedules have not brought together the leading 
teams in decisive -contests the State champion­
ship has been awarded to Notre Dame by 
popular and press verdicts. 
The worst defeat suffered by the Gold' and 
Blue was at the hands of the University of 
Wisconsin in 1904, iii which the "Badgers" 
drubbed us 58 to o. Our hugest victory, con­
sidering merely the size of the score, was the 
142 to o against the team of the dear old Ameri­
can Medical College, of Chicago, in 1905. 
The South Bend High School had a place on 
the Notre Dame schedule in 1892, the fourth 
year of Notre Dame football, in which the 
"Highs" suffered defeat 56 to o. 
Notre Dame began to attract national 
attention in football about 1909, as the result 
of invasions of. the East, West, and. South; 
with resulting victories which added much to 
her gridiron history. "Red" Miller was the 
first to lead a great Notre Dame team into the 
Kast—against the University of Pittsburg, 
then the new giant of the Eastern gridirons. 
Notre Dame won that first foreign contest, 
6 to o.. Since then she has played fifteen games 
• in the East, in which she has won eleven times, played to a tie once, and suffered three defeats. Notre Dame's victims in the East include the Army on five occasions, Pittsburg on two, Penn State, Syracuse, Washington and Jefferson, and. Carlisle. , 
The record of the Gold and Blue in the West is even more remarkable. Twenty-one games with leading teams of the Missouri valley ha;ve resulted in 18 victorieSi one tie, and two defeats. 
Nebraska has furnished the only serious oppo­sition in that region. The Valley champions have been played on their own grounds for six consecutive years, in which Notre Dame has won three games and tied another. Creighton University, the University of South Dakota, Morningside College, the Haskell Indians, and the Christian Brothers' College, in St. Louis, have yielded in turn to Notre Dame. In the South the Gold and Blue twice tamed the Texas "Longhorns," after the latter had reigned supreme for many years in Southern football. The Rice Institute also succumbed on two occasions. 
These are a few of the facts in the Notre Dame football history upon which she bases her claim to consistent supremacy in Western football. If there be in the West another universit)'- or college with a record which excels or equals this one, we should be humbly inter­ested in knowing of it.—E. M. STARRETT! 
Our Football Freshmen. 
It is the lot of all Freshmen to smile, despite "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" as wielded upon them by ruthless upperclass­men,. and surely none have smiled more truly than the men who composed this year the Freshmen football eleven at Notre Dame, who day after day withstood the murderous on­slaughts of the Varsity while that powerful machine was making ready for the games which achieved for it the name of being the best grid­iron aggregation of 1920. When that title was won it was not to the Freshmen that the glory came; yet they had no small part in the win­ning, and they were gladdened to know that they had helped to beat the Army, to beat Nebraska, to beat Indiana, and the others. 
A number of the Varsity men have now completed their allotted years of college foot­ball. Their places must be fiUed next season, and from the Freshmen will come most of the men who must sustain Notre Dame's football record. From among the men who trounced Culver 13 to 7 and the Fort Wayne Friars 18 to 7 will come the new heroes of Cartier Field. Perhaps the most promising of them at present is one Lieb, fullback, who was chiefly respon­sible for the Culver triumph and who made his way through the Varsity line as few enemy backs of the season did. He is a four-letter man and was captain-elect of this year at St. 

Thomas College, Minnesota. According to Coach Rockne, who knows, "he has more drive than an}'' man since the days of Eichenlaub." Another star under the wing of Coach Frank Miles last season was Joe Bergman, "Dutch III." of the famous family of Peru, Indiana. Joe is a left half-back. His 75-yard run did much to win the contest with the Friars, who were captained by "Cy" Degree, former Notre Dame star, and who count several other players about as good as Degree. 
And then there is McGivney, quarterback, a passer and a field general extraordinary; Maher, right-half, a clever open-field runner; Reese, quarterback, who came from Chicago "U" with a reputation; the ends, Shaugnessy, Mayl, and Cameron; the tackles. Murphy,, Ftynn, and Du Jardin; the guards, Hogan, Berberich, and Hieb; the centers, Reagan and Bolowski, and Alfred Arthur and Kelley. Flynn is almost certain Varsity material for 1921. Bolowski; "clever on defense, should figure in several line-ups; and Berberich, of South Dakota, also looks especialty good. 
The Freshmen, under Coach Miles, have all been hard and faithful players, and Notre Dame needs not fear that the loss of a number of this year's stars will prevent her hsLYing another great team in 1921. The Freashmen of this year, ' in short, promise that they will "carry on" in way worthy of their illustrious predecessors.—^H. W. FLANNERY, '23. 
Interhall Season, 1920. 

W  L  T  
Brownson  5  0  ,  0  1.00 0  
Corlay  3  0  0  1.00 0  
Badin  2  2  0  .500  
Carroll  2  2  0  .500  
Sorin  I  2  I  •333  
Off-Campus  0  5  I  .  ;00 0  
Walsh  0  2  0  .00 0  

Interhall football at Notre Dame came up for the season of 1920 like "Jack" Dempsey at Toledo and went down like "Charlie" Chaplin under a barrage of custard pies. If the analogy be further permitted, the ingredients of the fatal pies were too many outside games, frequent Avet grounds, and the distractions afforded by the Varsity schedule. The rules for next season will probably guard more carefully against the evil of too many outside games; wet grounds andinteirest in the Varsity are not so easily obviated. 
Seven hall teams competed this yeair. Ten 

games were actually played and four contests 
were forfeited. Of the fifteen outside contests, 
six games were won and one was tied. Brownson 
and Corby failed to get together for the dedding^ 
game of the season and are deadlocked for first 
place. 
Brownson had a well-rounded, heavy, fighting team which proved itself ready and able at all times to take the measure of its scheduled opponents. Weight and natural ability were supplemented by consistent coaching. Brownson was the "good big-man" of the league. Corby showed enough to win from the Off-Campus and the Carroll outfits, and would certainly have presented a stiff front to Brownson. The team, hea^^, powerful, well coached, seemed to be going at its best as the season ended. Corby was the "dark horse." Badin played an inter­esting game in every instance, and in a longer season might have come out on top.- It forfeited to Carroll, and lost to Brownson in the last minute "of an otherwise even game. 
Carroll Hall, entering the competitionr this year for the first time, was the "good little-man" of the league. A light line was the weak­ness of the team; yet in aggressiveness and courage the forward wall equalled that of any in the field. The squad was active, colorful, and always interesting. Sorin, with a better team than its final standing indicates, was handicapped by the usual diESculty of getting an interhall team from upperclassmen. Although coached by the best football brains, the squad had too many "one-game" men. Nevertheless, it furnished an interesting argument when it did muster enough men for a fight. The Off-Campus aggregation was treated roughly on its first entrance to Interhall compan}'- in recent years, and was handicapped by the natural disadvantages of "students residing off the campus." Neverthdess the "Dodgers" played more actual games than any other team, and improving gradually, they actually outplayed Sorin in the final game. The R. O: T. C. team as finally constituted was inferior to none," and it represented a real triumph for its coach and those "loyal Sox" of the outfit who weathered the storm of the; early season. 
Walsh was the hard-luck team of the League, . suffering injuries in the early part of tiie season which seriously affected the quality of the team. Although they lost both games played, the boys were not outdassed. They furnished one of , 

l8 2 '^ e Noore Same §ehoIascia 
the prettiest rallies of the season against Carroll, 
after seeming to be overwhelmed. 
In the arrangement of the Interhall all-star 
combinations which we present we have been 
guided by the selections of the coaches of the 
various squads. No attempt has been made to 
equalize the preferences of the various halls; 
but we have sought to recognize the efforts of 
the men whose work has merited most recogni­
tion. Outside games have not been included, 
and, all other things being equal, positions have 
been given to those who pla3'^ed the largest 
number of games. 
Se^'irit, of Badin, was a popular selection for 
end. He was a deadly tackier and a clever 
receiver of passes. His greatest ser^'ice to his 
team was a ps3'^chological one: with Seifert 
in the game, Badin fought for ever}'' point— 
and the personal element goes a long way in 
football. Walsh, of Carroll, repeated his claim 
of last season to the other end-position. He was 
a hard man to keep out of a play, he followed 
the ball closel}', and his handling of passes was 
perhaps the best. He has natural abilit)'-, and 
with good coaching he will make a strong bid 
for a'place on next year's Freshman eleven. 
Sanders, of Brownson, put up a defense ex­
celled by no other in the conference. On the 
offense he hit hard and fast and he was a difl5 cult 
man to stop. He is, in brief, a plugging linesman 
with a natural love for battle. At the other 
tackle, Hunsinger, of Badin, showed a different 
type of game. On the defense he was usuall}'­
on the bottom of his pla5'^s, and he entered the 
offense with a rare vitalit}'-. He was a good 
receiver of the pass and was perhaps the best 
punter in the. League, not infrequentl}'- going 
down under his own punts for tackles. 
Oberst, of Brownson, was\an .almost unan­
imous choice for guard. To look at this Kentucky giant is to know the reason. If his appearance or his voice did not stop the enem}'', . "Kentuck}'-" had a pair of willing arms that . craved action and strong legs which drove him through opposing lines. Cleary, of Sorin, was certainl}'^ the soul and most of the bodj'- of the Sorin line. He interpreted a play quickly, went through fast and low, and possibly stopped more pla5'-s back of the line than any other man. His general pla}': resembled closely the t5'^pe of the Varsity lineman. A fighting leader, and an old head in Interhall football, Cleary, is made the captain of the first team. Mixon, of Corby, reasserts his aU-hall right, to his position.- of 
last year at center. A good passer, he played the "loose-mentalty" game at pivot and was one of the chief secrets of Corby's success. With Seifert and Oberst, Mixon ''did time" on the Varsity throughout the year. 

Connell, of Carroll, has the distinction of being the onl}'' unanimous choice in the eleven. Coming to the "Preps" as an all-Wisconsin high-school back, this husky youngster tore his wa}?- through opposing lines with a swinging drive which old-timers at the school compare with that of Stanley Cofall, On the defense he covered both sides of the line; and when Connell tackled an opponent he was tackled. He is "football-minded" and excellent material for next year's Freshmen eleven. As the other half, Nicholson, of Badin, makes an ideal run­ing mate for Connell. He is a good line-plunger, a clever open-field runner, and a deadly tackier. Nicholson figured prominently in almost every play of his team. 
Wright, of Brownson, has been shifted from half to full because of his line-driving force and his superiority over any of the regular fullbacks. He never scintillated, but he played a stead;^ game which always brought good gains, passed well, kicked the only field-goal of the season, and presented a strong secondar}'- de­fense which excelled in breaking' up passes. 
Schmitt, of Brownson, appropriates the quar­terback place. Though &erj in ternper, he directed a varied attack which did much toward taking his team through the season without defeat. He was a consistent gainer through the line, and he starred especially in returning punts and in running back intercepted passes. 
With these reasons and with all deference to the dissenting opinions of others, we submit the following as our all-hall selections: 
Position 1st Team 
• L. B.—Walsh (Carroll) 
L. T.—Sanders (Brownson) 
L. G.—Cleary (C.) (Sorin) 
C. —Mixon (Corby) 
R. G.—Oberst (Brownson) 
R. T.—Hunsinger (Badin) 
R. E.—Seyfrit (Badin) 
Q. B.—Schmitt (Brownson) 
L. ,H.—Connel (Carroll)^ L.H.— Connel (Carroll) , 
R. H.—Nicholson (Badin) Fr B.—Wright (Brownson) 
Position , 2nd Team 
L. E.—Schmitt (Off-Campus) ^ . L. T.—Flinn (Corby) ... 
L. G.—Owens (Sorin) 

C. —Weischarr (OIT-Campus) 
R. G.—Maag (Sorin) - ,-. 
R. T.—Nadolney (Off-Campus) 
R. E.—AIcGarty (Corby) 
Q. B.—James (C) (Corby) 
L. H.—DriscoU (Walsh) 
R. H.—DeCorps (Carroll) 
F. B.—Joss (Walsh) 
Position jrd Team 
L. E.—Vignos (Brownson) 
L. T.—Hanrahan (Sorin) 
L. G;—Lando (Badin) 
C. —-Wrigley (Carroll) 
R. G.—Blum (Carroll) 
R. T.—Hart (Corby) 
R. E.—Keeney (Walsh) 
Q. B.—Walsh (C) (Off-Campus) 
L. H.—Mfirray (Off-Campus) 
R. H.—Whelan (Badin) 
F. B.—Riley (Brownson) 
—FRANK WAI.I.ACE, '23. 
«t • ^ 

A Sixty-Yard Run. 

It was the day of the great football classic between Notre Dame and the Army at West Point in 1919. While eleven blue-jersied war­riors fought valiantly for \dctory on the Plains overlooking the Hudson, fifteen hundred anxious students praj'-ed and cheered and waited as each play was flashed over a thousand miles of telegraph wire to the stands on Cartier field. Many, were the tense moments of suspense and breathless hushes when the little yellow slips-of paper were read intermittently, for this was indeed a battle of men. For three-quarters of the game Notre Dame wrestled fiercely with the "Army's Finest," in an effort to drive over the touchdown which "the bunch back there" were calling for, and for three quarters the Soldiers had thwarted them. All the excitement and tenseness of those actually watching this mighty struggle seemed to be transferred a hun­dredfold to that expectant crowd on Cartier field, just as the throaty "U. N. D. Rah! Rah!" at Notre Dame seemed to be heard by the battling team a thousand miles away. 
It was Notre Dame's ball in the middle of the field. There followed a long interval. What was the matter? Then the stands hushed of a sudden: a message was coming over the wires. Steadily the instrument clicked off the words from the Hudson. When it paused, the cheer­leader dashed to the center of the stands, and shouted in clear voice: "'Notre Dame makes sixty-yard run'—could not get player's name." 
When the frenzy of yells subsided another 

message had been received and the cheer­leader continued: "Last message incomplete— 'Mai Gooley makes sixty-yard run with water-bucket. Both teams take water.'"—^A.C.SHEA,'22 

The Spirit of the Team. 

Two seasons without a defeat or a tie score is no mean record for any football team. Seldom does a team of calibre accomplish such result if its opponents be of equal standing with itself. Most of the recognized top-notch aggregations of both the East and the West play more mediocre teams than good ones during the course of their schedules; and their hard games are so arranged that no two of them will faU within a period of two weeks. Thus a week of rest^ generally precedes a big game. Notre Dame, however, has not been particular as to the succession of formidable foes on her schedule after the first two games at the opening of the season. From the .first real game until the end of the season no mediocre elevens find place on the"Gold and Blue schedule, and there olcurs no rest-week to prepare the team for its next worthy opponent. 
Practically every team from husky Nebraska to the aggressive Michigan "Aggies" was pointed toward one game—^that with Notre Dame. These teams nursed along their best men, keeping them out of preceding games in order that they might be in their best form for . the battle with Notre Dame. Little did they care, it seems, for \dctor}'^ over other teams; a successful season meant above all a triumph over Notre Dame. Under such conditions has the Gold and Blue battled successfully on the gridiron for the last two years, and it is with not a little pardonable pride that the student-body and the alumni of the University look back on the glorious achievements of the teams of 1919 and 1920. 
It is a striking fact in oux victories over Nebraska, Valparaiso, West Point, and Indiana that each of these opponents scored first, and that then the Varsity struck its stride and tturned the tide to victory for itself. Throughout the season the morale of the team was 1007^, and a handicap score of ten points or so by the opposition only ser\'ed to arouse the fighting and winning spirit of Captain CoughHn's men. When on these occasions the team came from behind in the middle or last quarter pf the con­test it was surcharged with a driving force which 


'^ e Notre 5ame Seholascia 
was irresistible and which in everj'" instance scored a final ^'ictory. Such is the spirit that has enabled Notre Dame to achieve a record of two 3'-ears without a defeat and to la}'- good claim to the championship title in Western football.—E. B. DEGREE. 
Gridiron Genealogy. 
Somebod}'^ ought to write a liistor)'" of football and somebody else ought to lecture on the subject three times a week. :Think how popular a course it would be and how easj'" for the pro­fessor: no muddle-headed questions, no absences, no ponies, and no conditional'' exams!'' Really, football history is of just as much importance as the stor}'- of the ancient Patagonians or the kings of England. The writer could call his work "Kick Chronicles," or "Pigskin Papers" or, if he had studied in Germany, '' The Evolu­tion of the Cheerleader, or a Study in Insanit}?-." He could use the diction of ancient times and speak of Sir Knights charging down the lea; and, exercising his scientific genius, he might construct all sorts of h3'potheses to account for the fact that Notre Dame is not in the Conference. 
This brings us to what we wanted to say. This old school would stand out in football history as a Napoleonic dynasty that never saw Waterloo. Over in Australia they tell of Sir George Gipp who as governor of the Island rooted the Bushmen; but our own George smashed the'American Army! P. T. Barnum brought back Jumbo's scalp from India once; we have taken it from Indiana twice. Many outposts have been captured in battle, but nobod}?- except Notre Dame ever ran away with goal-posts. Philbrook and Sunnybrook had the.same effect on folks years ago, and since the passage of the Volstead Act, Brand}?- has in­toxicated thousands. There is nothing that figures in \actor>'- like a Wjnn, and the last but not least, the only King EJnute we recognize in this Republic lives in South.Bend, Indiana. We could continue indefinitely, but paper is scarce. Anj^how, we do not wish to conve}'' the impression that we are as impartial as Walter Camp. , 
Football is not scholarship, but neither is war. Hindenburg has no more concern with the culture of the mind than Eichenlaub. But the ungentle art of transporting the'pigskin has meant a great deal to the lads at Notre Dame,. 

It has told folks about the place and eliminated a big supply of supercilious eyebrow-raising Avhen we told them where our degrees were going to come from. T\Tien the great Doctor Green became a Catholic man}^ "noble" scientists forgot him; the Orestes Brownson who lies buried under our chapel has been consistently ignored; Stoddard and Stace and Gregori have been overlooked by the American intel­lectuals: but the common people in whom we trust have learned all about Notre Dame from the score-board. The)?- can't be told that there is no such place when they have seen the Gold and Blue on many a field. Sooner or later they will discover—are discovering—the other sides of the genius of Notre Dame, and this school will inherit the dignity for which it has labored so long. 
There! We have drawn one moral from our history. It wasn't done intentionally but we'll leave it. When we chuckle over the team that did big things this year, let us remember the great and goodly men of the past: Sammon and Dorais, Edwards and Fitzgerald, Farle}'­and Hamilton, and Pliska and Elward and Miller and a hundred more—men, all of them, who put their best into the game and established a tradition which we must work our heads off to live up to. When Coughlin and Barry and Smith and the rest of those who take sheepskins with them next June leave the field for history we can only say with the poet that they go with a glorious company; that they can wrap the drapery of their blankets about them and lie down to pleasant dreams. As for us, we're not going to lie down at all: we're going to give nine 'rahs for everybody. 
To the Team. 
. J. A. FOGARTY, '22. 
You swamped Kazoo and cnxshed Purdue, And Valpo was a dream; You walked straight through Nebraska's crew-You fighting N. D. "Team. 
You cleared the sod of Armj'^'s squad. The Hoosiers were your test; You onward trod with conquering rod And quelled"* Northwestern's best; 
O Gold and Blue, your worth shows true. You stood the test and won; W|'re proud of you, of Rockne too, As4 ^ve" lau4 you every: one.^ 

^e Houve- 5ame S"cholascia 



]|otpe]|)aiT)eJdbolastic 
DISCE-QUASl-SnA\PCR-VICTURUS--VlV£-QU'\SI-CRAS-i^\ORn\'RVS 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Mailer. 
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. 

VOL. LIV. DECEMBER ii, 1920. NO. II. 
Board of Editors. 

ALFRED N . SLAGGERT, *2I M . JOSEPH TIERNEY, '21 
WALTER M. O'KEEFB, '21 EMMETT SWEENEY, '21 
MORRIS STARRETT,'21 EDWIN W. MURPHY,'23 
HENRY STEVENSON '21 VINCENT ENGELS, '23 
EDWARD B. DEGREE, '23 J. W. HOGAN, C. S:C., '22 
LEO R. WARD, C. S. C,'23 FRANK WALLACE, '23 
R M. MuRCH, C. S. C,'23 H. W. FLANNERY, '23 
CHARLES P. MOONEY, '22 

With Coach Rockne again in charge of athletics at Notre Dame, the football prospects for 1921 is by no means a gloomy one. The 
^ , team of next fall should be 

The Prospect for n ui + + + +1, 
^ , well able to step to the 
i.N exx J. ear* , t j-i 1 r i. 1 

pace set by the undefeated elevens of this year and last. If, as we all hope, it can acquit itself as the third successive "clean-slate" team, it will bring to Notre Dame and to itself still more recognition and honor. This year we lose Gipp, but we still have Mohardt; we lose Barr}'-, but we still have Danny Coughlin and Walsh; we lose Brand}^ but we still have Grant and Thomas; we lose "Maurie" Smith, but we still have Ed Degree and Doole}'-; we lose Dave Ha3'^es, but save Carberry and Prokup; we lose Captain J'rank Coughlin, but Hector Gar^'-ey, who tord open the opposition so con­sistently last season, will be with us. Back, and better than ever, ^^dll be: Eddie Anderson and "Rog" Kiley, "Iron-Man" Shaw and "Hunk" Anderson, "Ojay" Larson and Harr}'-Mehre, "Chet" Grant and Frank Thom.as, "Chet" Wynne, with Paul Castnef and Bob Phelan, and "Johnnie" Mohardt, with Earl Walsh and Dan Coughlin., 0 Man, what an aggregation! But they are not aU. Supporting these and fighting for their places wiU be: Oberst, Kean, and Cotton; the star Freshmen, Leib and Reese, and a host of others. Only the pessimist can have misgivings. A defeat— if it should- come—would only make us fight the harder. And the Notre Dame fighting spirit is not easily beaten, as. the Indiana game of this year clearly demonstrated. Onward then. Team of '21, to a year typical of Notre Damet Onward to another year of victories.—j. T. D. 
It is by struggle that living things grow strong-Centuries ago men battled with the elements 
and  the beasts  of  the jungle,  and  thereby  
acquired  great  physical  
"They Who Ma ke  strength.  Great  nations  
the Team."  have  developed  their  
ascendency  only  b y  

struggle. Great men gather strength out of contest with powerful adversaries. The great football team is no exception to this rale of life: it is made mainly by the opposition offered it by gridiron antagonists. In football practice this antagonism must be furnished by men whose chance to win places on the representative team is slender but whose services are absolutely indispensable to the making of a team that can win. Were it not for the efforts engendered by the strenuous competition for places there could be no successful football season. Hence a great meed of credit is due to the men of the "second string," who day after day go through the long gruelling drills and furnish gratis the opposition so essential to the development of a strong first eleven.' In a very literal sense, it is they who make the team.—^E. P. S. 
It is a pity that at the close of an otherwise faultless football season on Cartier Field it seems necessary to say a word of the "grand­
stand heroes." Despite all the Kill Them Off. efforts that have' been made 
to eliminate the species, it must be admitted that .a few specimens of the pest still survave—and a few of this kind is a whole multitude. One still hears a few "bim­bos" shouting, "kill him," "break that guy's neck," and other well-timed exhortations to the team, which are sheer insult to the men who have made for themselves such an enviable name for clean sportsmanship. The conduct of our cheering section is largely responsible for the impression which visiting schools and the public receive' of Notre Dame, and hence all. 
*'orrandstand heroes'' should be annihilated rather than allowed to disgrace the school. If these noisy "rough-necks" who are. able to distin­guish themselves by nothing better than bar­barism could only be put into the gridiron battle 

'Sfie Horre 5ame S'cholascic , 
for about three minutes—^but this t5'^pe of "sport" never gets an);- closer to a football game than the last seat in the bleachers. We are proud to sa}- at least, that there are at Notre Dame only a few siir^dvors of this pestif­erous breed. If 3'ou beHeve in true sportsman­ship, help to kill these things off as quickl}'- as possible b}'^ feeding' them an abundance of discouragement.—A. j . c. 
Football is perhaps, next to baseball, the most popular athletic pastime in the world. It is not, however, as we are apt to think, an 
altogether modern game. Football of Old. It is, in fact, a very ancient 

form of exercise and amuse­ment. The Indians of North America and the aborigines of man}'' of the Pacific Islands plaj'ed a game essentiall}'" the same as our modern one, and it is not at all improbable that football in some form was in vogue in the ancient dB.js when all Europe was in barbarism. The Greeks, it seems, taught a sort of football to the Romans and the Romans in turn through their soldiers to the Britons and other races of the North. In the Middle Ages football was plajj-ed in the British Isles by whole communities, who "without an\'- ver}?; definite goal kicked the ball back and forth along the rural highway or the city street. The Virginia colonists brought the sport to America in 1630. Since that time the game has grown graduaU}'- into its present developed form, and has become like several other,forms of. athletic corrfpetition, a highly specialized'activity in college life.—B. S. 
It was obser\-ed by more than one football scribe in the season that Notre-Dame had two teams: one composed' of George Gipp and the 
other, consisting of his 

•"The Third Team." ten colleagues on the 
gridiron. This was by no, means the.whole truth: Notre Dame had three: teams. Two of them the critics obserxT^ed correctly; but the third they entirely- over­looked, and'naturally, because the}'" never saw it in action: This third team is made up of the second-line men, _ that; aggregation of , very exceptional players "who failed to get advertise­miient, not-because they, lacked "distinction but because.there were,at,Notre Dame a sufficient nuniber of still greater adejpts in the manipula­tion of the pigskin. ] These :Rese:ryes wore out, the energy of Purdue, and j then turned, them 
over to the Varsity in order that the score board might be filled up more quickly. The}'- played the Valparaiso eleven to a standstill, and then allowed Gipp and his brethren to demonstrate that the Gold and Blue has on its football team better track men than Har^'^ard. These are but a few of their feats. If the whole Varsity eleven had been annihilated, Notre Dame would still have won the majority of her con­tests. Indeed, if the fighting Reser\'es had received the undivided attention of the '' wizard coach," they might have made the defeatless record that was actually achieved by the regular aces.—F. J. H. 
If 5''ou look over the Notre Dame schedule 

of the season just finished you will find that 
the Varsity has the.habit of scoring a number 
of points corresponding ex-

Observe the Dates, actly to the date of the 
month on which the game is played. At Lincoln on October the 16th Notre Dame secured sixteen points. In the game with Indiana on November the 13th the Gold and Blue got the unlucky number of points, but it was sufficient to win the game. On Thanksgiving day, November the 25th, the second-string counted twenty-five points against the Michigan 
Aggies.'' The big games. of next .year should be scheduled for the end of the month, as no team has been able to run up a high score against the Gold and Blue.—h. A. W. 
Next week the Notre Dame men will scatter to all corners of the coiintry to enjoy the Christ­mas holidays with the folks at home. Eager lips will speak to willing ears Add Your.City of the glories of the school, to the List, of the prowess of the football 
teanij^of the religious atrnos­phere which pervades every part of the institu­tion and which inspires a loyalty much deeper than mere school spirit. In recent years the _ students of a few of the larger cities have made their home-going the occasion of a social affair for Notre Dame students, alumiii, and friends. According to the plans already laid, this most praiseworthy custdin will be greatly extended this Christmas. Notre Dame celebrations are to be held in Chicago, 'Rochester, Cleveland, Louisville, Indianapolis, Pittsburg, Akron, To­ledo, and Wheeling. The idea of= a Notre Dame celebration in the home-town at some time with­in -the holidays is most "commendable. If 

^ e Nocre 6ame Scholascic? 
you think that Notre Dame represents some­thing somewhat different from what other schools stand for; if you consider the University the proper sort of institution for the education of Catholic boys; if you are proud of your connection with Notre Dame—^let the world know it. You can do this in a measure at least by seeing that your city is added to the list of those which have a Notre Dame celebration at Christmas time.—:P. w. 
The glory of Notre Dame on the gridiron has 
been celebrated by every newspaper and critic 
of the country. The players of Notre Dame's 
invincible eleven have found their 

The Heroes, pictures over columns of com­
ment on their work. But we have heard nothing of the men who "did not make the team"—or rather of the men who did make the' team. Bruised and battered, these men lined up day after day against the regulars, took their punishment unflinchingly, and- in the end were doomed to the obscurity of the sidelines. These fellows are, in our estimation, the real heroes—^heroes because they were able to work so well without reward, heroes because they are strangely happy in their disappointment, heroes because they did not complain when other men took the places they coveted, heroes because they gave their best that Notre Dame might triumph over all. 
—^w. A. c. 

The Students Activities Committee at the University was born just one year ago. Fostered by the cooperation of a very considerate Faculty 
Council and of an 

Support the S. A. "C. appreciative student 
body, it has developed into an efi&cient agent for the common welfare' of all in the school. It.has tided itself very successfully over the teething period and is now able to work on solid food. It has already within its one year done numerous things of consequence. It arranged a fitting reception for the football heroes on their return from. West Point; it cooperated very effectively with Cheer-leader Slaggert in the celebrations on_ the occasions.of th^ Purdue and the North­western • games; by its effort the quarterly examinations were' advanced a week in order that the students might have the' ordeal.off their minds for the trip;;to Chicago; except for the managemeiit of the Committee the round­
trip'to Chicago could not have been made for. the ordinaj}'- one-way fare; it arranged for the numerous reservations for students at the theatres and for other kinds of entertainment in Chicago; it succeeded in retrieving the good will of the Indiana Electric Company after it had been seriously shaken by the inadvertent misconduct of some of the students on' the evening of the Purdue rally; it has helped in numerous ways to secure the good will of numerous' other concerns in the cily; it has effectively forbidden strangers from profiteering among the students in the name of remote "worthy causes" and has licensed Notre Dame men to put before the student body things of interest and value to the men of Notre Dame— in shorty it has effectively and • consistently consulted the interests of the student body, whom it • represents. The Committee wishes hereby to exp'ress to the Faculty Council, and to the students its genuine gratitude, for their confidence and support, and to say that it is anxious to be of much further' and greater ser\aee. We shall be glad to do anything and everything that may merit in the.future the same cooperation we have received during,the past three months.' To any member of the University who will subniit to us his complaints, suggestions, or what not, we promise our best sersdce. At any rate feed your infant on con­tinued cooperation; keep "knocking" and islan­der from its diet, and watch it grow. -By all means be with the Committee. Buy nothing, 
for example, on the Notre Dame campus unless the solicitor presents his authorization, card from the S. A. C. This is for your protection; 
—CHAIRMAN, S. A. =C-

Notre Dame students of former years who. remember the distance between South Bend:and the University will be interested in these para­graphs from an editorial which appeared in the South Bend News-Times on Sunday, November the 2Sth, 1920: 
Knitting South. Bend and Notre.Dame together, which has been going on for some time, andseemingly consummated by the dinner given the Notre Dame football team by the business and professional men of' the city under the auspices of the University Club ' Tuesday, night, bodes'well for. both ;the city and the University.' It beats all—^the superior magic that there is to a footbaU team, -over the departments of book learning, quizzes and lectures, in oiu: modern educa­tional institutions, but better that to. fire the public interest than to have nothing. Notre Dame has a football team/ indeed,, to be proud of, but it is because 

i88 '^ e Noure 5ame Seholascic? 
the team is emblematic of the school and of the spirit 
of the school demonstrated in the team that South 
Bend does well to express its pride in looth. 
. . . The Universitj'^ is one of the landmarks of 
this vicinitj'-. It stands among the great institutions 
of learning of the countrj"^. Its influence is bound to be 
Avholesome. Quite as was said by one of the speakers 
at the dinner, Ave will perhaps never know the influence 
that it wields over a considerable portion of our popula­
tion, not alone in a religious sense, but in the makings 
of good citizens. Its influence in that section of the 
city, for instance, from whence so-called radicalism 
might be expected to proceed, has no doubt had a 
very quieting effect throughout the recent months of 
unrest. 
Any school that sends its students out into the world 
trained for progressivism and imbued with a regard 
for our institutions and methods of government figures 
in the salvation of the nation. 
Besides, the more university training we have among 
the general run of people, the better. Every graduate 
becomes more or less- of an uplifting influence among 
those with whom he comes in contact. Say what you 
please, with all our snobbery, and bowing and scraping 
at the feet of wealth, the American people admire 
brains—the trained mind. Notre Dame shoiUd accord­
inglj- be encouraged, and as far as possible patronized, 
not alone at athletic events, such as football, but in the 
class rooms. In fact, we would put our emphasis on 
the class rooms. Football is all right in a waj'. The 
good football player soon learns how to use his head 
and think quickly, to decide in a second what to do, 
and how to do it, which is good mental training, but 
in the battle of life this training, with the class room 
also at its back has an even greater advantage. 
Let us regard Notre Dame then as one of our in­stitutions of learning; permit her to put us on the educational map as a city where higher education floturishes, as well as where plows, and automobiles, and watches, and sewing machines—and municipal administrative blunders—are made. The University Club performed a splendid service by arranging that dinner. "The city did splendidly by way of response. It coxUd scarcely' have been improved upon and we are certain that both Notre Dame and South Bend appreciate it. It is "our university" more now— in a social sense, a cooperative sense, and a community sense.—^An editorial in the South Bend News-Times, Sunday, November 28, 1920. 


South Bend's Tribute tothe Team. 
From the rousing Notre Dame March which opened the program to the, lusty "U. N. D." led by Cheer-leader Slaggert at the close, the banquet tendered by the University Club of SouthBend to the "Wonder-Bleven of the West" was, without its equal in the annals of good fellowship in South'Bend. Four hiindred prom­inent business'men chose this riieans of express­ing their sentiments to the team and the coaches who had brought them "over the top." Those who have followed South Bend-Notre Dame social affairs for a period- of years were un­animous in acclaiming this function the peer of them all. Due to excellent committee manage­ment, the banquet was, in the parlance of the epicure, "jDcrfect from soup to nuts". In addi­tion to the Notre Dame squad and numerous members of the Faculty, Coach Grandsen and his embryonic stars from the local High School were guests of the Club. 

The magnificent Menu for the banquet, "honoring the 1920 Notre Dame football team and their coaches—given under the auspices of the Universit}'- Club of South Bend," pre­sented the following as foreword "To Our Guests": 
"You have toyed with Kalamazoo,' played with State Normal, and foiled mighty Nebraska. You have vanquished Valparaiso, crushed the ainbitious Army,, and overwhelmed Purdue. You have again humbled Indiana and punished Northwestern. We know what you will do to the Aggies. 
"When we could, we have been present to cheer in person your success. When we could not, we have hung on the ticker and boosted you by mental wireless. Tonight we gather to express, in a feeble way, the gratitude South Bend feels for the glory 3'-ou have brought to this city. 
"We do this because, in a closer sense than ever before, Notre Dame's team is South Bend's team. When you shine we bask in the glory; you fight, we support. If you should lose—the powers forbid—we will grieve. You are ours . and we are completely yours .'"^ 
"As for Rockne and Halas, what more can 

- be said? Your glory is their.own; ^'^our victory, 
-their reward; your exaltation, their compensa­tion. College generations rasiy come and go and city populations change, but so long as blood runs red and warm in the veins of youth and football is played on college field, their names and yours will endure." 
Following the invocation by Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S.C, and.the address of welcome by Mr. J. E. Neff, of the University Club, Judge 
G. A. Farabaugh, as toastmaster, introduced Frank Coughlin, *' the greatest. captain of the 
„greatest of great teams," who in turn presented the other members of the team. Every player, from the veterans Brandy, Barry^ and Hayes, who are completing their last year of eligibility, to the third-string substitutes "who only stand 

'^ e Noure Same Seholascic? 
and wait," was given a rousing salute by the gathering.. There were at intervals repeated calls for Gipp, but on account of illness he was unable to be present. 
Mr. R. M. Hutchinson in his'' Tribute to Coach Rockne" proclaimed the Notre Dame mentor the mail who has brought together Notre Dame and South Bend more closely than ever before. In closing his address he presented the coach with a South Bend watch in behalf of the Club. In his address, "Ties that Bind," Mr. Frank B-Hering ('98), a former football star of Notre Dame, now one of South Bend's most promi­nent citizens, payed superlative tribute to Rockne, Halas, and the team. He spoke par­ticularly of the spirit fostered by' American universities, which prepared our college men to lead the greatest arm)'" in the world's history. When he referred to Notre Dame's war record— "Every monogram man under arms," he elicited the. greatest cheer of the evening: 
Rev. Dr. James A. Burns, C. S. C, President of the University, himself a Notre Dame athlete in his days as student, receivedprolonged applause when he declared that the University wishes to work hand in hand with South Bend for mutual advancement. To Coach Rockne he referred as a marked leader of men, both on the athletic field and elsewhere. Among others called upon for remarks were Father Matthew Walsh, and Walter Halas, assistant-coach. 
The banqueters were most agreeably surprised by a telegram from Rev. John Cavanaugh, 
C. S. C, former president of the University, and by another from the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse. One of the finest tributes of the occasion to the prowess of the football team was that of "Bob" Peck, football coach at the Culver Military . Academy, who has been acclaimed the All-Time All-American ~^center, from the University of Pittsburgh. Indicative of the originality and enthusiasm of the whole event was the extra edition of the News-Times, proclaiming the "Rockmen" as the only logical selection for the All-American team. Mr. South Bend^and Mademoiselle Notre Dame were forever joined in wedlock by "His Grace of Michigan Street, 'Mike' Calnon." Musical selections by Misses Wing and Oaks, of Chicago, interspersed the program. To those privileged to attend the banquet it will live long as a worthy tribute to the men who have added so much glory-to the athletic traditions of Notre Dame. 
, —yr. M. O'K. 
Washington Hall Events. 

The DeMille quartet of male singers furnished a very pleasing evening of song in ^\^ashington Hall on Wednesday, the ist of December. The members of the Glee Club were out in force, taking notes and accumulating atmosphere for their own purposes. 
Mr. Edwin M. WTiitney, of Boston, dramatic reader, achieved a triumph in his presentation of George Cohan's "On the Square," or "Hit the , Trail Holhda)-," in Washington Plall on Saturday evening of December 4th. The reader displayed very exceptional histrionic ability in his simulation of the characters and voices of the numerous cast through four acts. Attractions of the quality of this one by Mr. Whitney would quickly assure the cheerful attendance of aU students at the events in Washington Hall. No other entertainer of the year has elicited from the student-body so many expressions of appreciation. 
Dr. Ernest C. Partridge, of Oberlin College, for twenty years president of a college in Armenia, addressed the students in Washington Hall in the afternoon of December loth on behalf of the American Committee for Near-East Relief. Pie sketched the religious ^nd political differences between the Turks and their Armenian subjects, and described the methods employed in the last massacre and deportation. He stated that there are in Armenia more than 100,000 orphans and 150,000 girl slaves in most urgent need of our help. He spoke of course from first-hand knowledge of conditions existing there, obtained while he was a* member of the first American relief expedition. . He asked aid for the sufferers on the grounds of common-humanity, of their patriotism during the war, and their heroic devotion to the Christian re-Hgion, which latter is the chief cause?_of the persecution they suffer. f ~ 
GRIFFITH'S" WAY.DOWN EAST." A most delightful three hours were spent by the students and faculty of the University last Saturday morning in witnessing Mr. D. W. Griffith's "wonderful screen production of "Way Down East." In as much as all had looked forward "with keen anticipation to, a promised visit of the great director himself, real disap­

'^ e Nocre c&ame Seholascie 
pointment was felt when it was announced that 
business duties had made it impossible for Mr. 
Griffith to be with the students when his pla}'^ 
Avas presented. "Wa}'^ Down East" is without, 
doubt the most notable histrionic effort shown 
in Washington Hall since the production of 
Mr. Griffith's masterpiece, "The Birth of a 
Nation," some two 5'^ears ago. Both of these 
great plays have been presented as compliments 
to the University. Mr. Hector Fuller, a former 
war correspondent, in a few words before the 
plajj- conve3^ed to the audience the message 
of compliment from Mr. Griffith. 
The screen version of the present ston,'-hj Elaine Parker is. in substance essentialh^ the same as that of the -plsij produced twent}?- A'^ears ago on the regular stage. The theme of the piece is as old as man. The play presents the trials of a j'-oung and all too trusting country girl, who is betraj'^ed by one of the cit5'-'s rakes, and her ultimate success, in the face of seemingly insurmountable opposition, in finding hap­piness among the simple country folk of a remote comer of New England. It is just the kind of stoTv that keeps the handkerchiefs at the alert position. The accumulating traged)'', however, is ver}'- artfully relieved by just the right amount of the lighter side of life. It is this blending of pathos with relief comedy that constitutes one of the chief charms of this classic production. 
Every r61e of the cast, even to the least of the minor parts, is interpreted by a star actor. The leading characters, David Bartlett and Anna Moore, the victim of Lennox Sanderson's mock marriage, are most effectively done by Richard Barthelmess and Lillian Gish. By right does the part of David, the swain, of broad vision, belong to Barthelmess. The adaptation of the r61e of the unprotesting Anna to the personality of Miss Gish could not be more perfect if the piece had been originaU}'^ written for her. The control of the tears evinced by the little actress touches the heartstrings of the spectators throughout the play. The other notable impersonators in the cast are Kate Bruce, Burr Mcintosh, Mary Hay, Creighton Hale, Viva Ogden, and Lowell Sherman. The excellent special orchestra of twenty pieces which accompanies the picture contributes very much toward the full effectiveness of the entertain­ment. 
The play as presented in the picture is highly artistic and true to life. In a few instances, 
however, it may be thought that the great producer in an effort to heighten the realism of his creation has slightly overdone his effects. The scene in which Lennox Sanderson and Anna Moore are upon the couch in the bridal suite and the last ten seconds of that scene might very well be eliminated, without in aii}'' way injuring the effectiveness of the part. These two episodes are altogether unneces­sary to the progress of. the stor^'- and are un­profitabh'' suggestive to the spectator. Aside from these slight excesses, Mr. Griffith's "Way Down East" is a faultless chef d'cpuvre of the moving-picture art.—c. P. MOONEY. 
Personals. 

—Paul Thompson, student at Notre Dame in 1916-17, spent a few minutes at the University, recently. 
—^Jerry Powers, whom a sheepskin made a Ph. B. in Commerce last year, is now sticking his head into law books at the University of Wisconsin. 
—Prof. W. A. Johns, former head of the Agricultural Department at Notre Dame,isnow vice-president of New Evansville College, at Evansville, Indiana. His numerous friends at Notre Dame rejoice in his promotion. 
—^The recent observance of Holy Name Sunday in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Avas featured by an address by Mr. William Hake, '92 years of age and the oldest Hoty Name man in Grand Rapids. The venerable lecturer is well known at Notre Dame, where all of his eight' sons have been educated. 
—From Elgin, Illinois, comes the news of the marriages of two Kotre Dame.alumni, William 
E. Pierce (LL. B., '06) and Edward J. McOsker (Ph. B., '17). Mr. Pierce, who'is a prominent lodgeman, politician, and former city attorney, was married to Miss Nell Agnes Wallace, of Elgin. Mrs. McOsker was iorme'rly Miss Ethel Lucille Pritchard, also of Elgin. 
—The echoes of Notre Dame's successful football season are beginning to resound. From Bemidji, Minnesota, comes a congratula­tory letter from John„C. Burke (C. E., '14) in which he'says: "Kindly put me down for a year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC^ and send if possible all the back numbers of this year. By aU means do not forget: the footbaU num­ber..---I note today thfit George Gipp has prob­ably passed his crisis. I am not acquainted A^dth Gipp, but I am sure for him and sincerely hope he wins his greatest battle." John is now chief engineer in a large project of Beltrami County, Minnesota. 
—We read in the Buffalo Enquirer that the 
•chief factor in the defeat of Buffalo's mighty eleven by Jim Thorpe's Canton team was the playing of Al Feeney, former Notre Dame center. "Al" decided the contest by lifting a soggy, heavy oval over the bar frorh the 20-yard line. 
—Charles W. Bachman, star fullback of 
Notre Dame in recent ^years, now football 
coach at the Kansas State Agricultural College, 
says in a letter to one of the editors: "It may 
interest 3'-ou to know that the entire football 
world is watching with anxiety the daily reports 
concerning the illness of George Gipp. Everj'-one 
is hoping for his speedy recovery. Please extend 
to him my earnest wishes for an early and 
complete,return to health." 
—^Fred A. Hayner, football critic on the Chicago Daily News writes to the editors of the SCHOLASTIC : " In a talk with a football man coming to New York from-New Haven, a man who apparently had played'football and studied it for years, he said: 'I saw the Notre Dame-West Point game. I had heard much about Gipp, but a study of the team impressed me as to the wonderful work of the backs as a group. The smoothness which they displayed in attack far.outshone any individual effort in the game. The backfield had been wonderfully coached and worked like clock action. That, to my mind', v/as the real strength of the team.'" 
—^Harry Miilford Jewett (C. E., '90), a classmate of the President of the University some thirty years ago writes from Detroit: "I see there are three of us here who played on the original football team at Notre Dame— Hepburn, who used to play end, Sawkins, who played guard, 'and myself. . Every once in a while I meet our old center, 'Dutch' Fehr. I received a letter from him the other day from Louisville. Of course, if you moderns get gay down there at Notre Dame I shall write to "Dutch," get the three of us, and we shall challenge the whole team of 1920—^just to show that we are not "selling-platers," and that while we are a little bald we still have the old . Notre Dame punch." 
—^With raw material and the. fighting spirit of the student-body of Gonzaga College, Coach 
Charles E. Dorais has this year put Spokane 
on the football map. In former years Gonzaga 
for lack of the best coaching has not competed 
very successfully with the teams of the North­
west Conference. During this last season, 
however. Coach Dorais has demonstrated the 
possibility of developing a winning team by 
professional training. He has been engaged 
for another year at Gonzaga at an increased 
salary. He did good work here at Notre Dame 
last year as assistant-coach in football and as 
coach in basketball and baseball. Notre Dame ' 
claims him also as one of her law graduates 
of 1914 and as one of her greatest football stars. 
All of his friends here rejoice at his success in 
his new position and hope that good fortune 
may favor him increasingjly in the coming year. .. 
—^Stuart H. Carroll, former Notre Dame journalist, is for the time being at work on an Indiana farm journal published in South Bend. Until recently he was Sunday editor of the South Bend News-Times. During the war he managed the circulation of the Stars and Stripes, official organ of the A. E- F. Leo Berner, well known to older graduates, is special-assignment man on the News-Times. Up to last July he held down the desk of city editor in the da3rtime. Among others in the Notre Dame representation on the local newspaper are Freeman Scully, sporting editor, Frank Farrington, Sunday-feature writer, and Dillon J. Patterson, court reporter. Miss Loretto Lorden-oh the Sunday staff-,of t\i& News-Times is a summer school student. 
—Mr. Albert J. Galen (LL. B.," '96), Associate-Justice of the Supreme Court of Montana, in a letter acknowledging the congratulations sent by the President of the University, on the occasion of the judge's recent election, writes: "Whatever I have accomplished or" may yet accomplish in life is due chiefly to the interest which was taken in ine during the years attended Notre Dame. If dear old Col. Hoynes is still alive, I wish ^'•ou would convey to him my best wishes and advise him of my. election. I should be very happy to have my boy at Notre Dame, and have been at work in an endeavor to bring it about. After the first of the year many grave and important duties and responsibilities will devolve upon me, and. I only hope and pray that with my limited capacity I may be able-to function satisfac-^ torily:"—E.'P. ST^EENBY.­

 '^ e Noure ^ame Scholagcie 
Mass by Bishop Legrand, C. S. C. Local News. 
Bishop Legrand, of the Bengal Missions, India, pontificated at the Solemn Mass in the University church on the feast of the Immacu­late Conception. Owing to the effects of an attack of bronchitis, contracted in Canada last month, Bishop Legrand was unable to address the students. This was ver);- regrettable, as the venerable missionary'- appreciates highly the assistance he receives from the students of Notre Dame, whose increasing interest in the apostolic work of the Church affords him and 
the other missionaries of Holy Cross in Bengal the greatest encouragement and support. Bishop Legrand assisted at the convention of the Students' Foreign Mission Crusade held in Washington last August. In his discourse to the student delegates at the Catholic University the Bishop detailed the many advantages of the Crusade accruing not only to the Foreign Missions but to the students themselves and to the Church in the United States. The Bishop feels he has every reason to hope that the fullest measure of success will be realized by the Notre Dame Units. He will watch with keenest interest the growth of the foreign mission spirit at the University. The Bishop, accompanied by Father Timothy J. Crowley, 
C. S. C , ('02), came to this country last sum­mer to attend ^the general chapter of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. He expects to sail for Bengal early in the new year. 

—The New England Club will go home for the holida3'-s in big-league st3de. Private cars will convey the "Yanks" from South Bend to Boston, where the compan}!- will scatter in groups to their respective home-towns. 
—Rev. L. V.Broughall, C.S. C, of the English Department, spoke to the members of the Writers' Club at its semi-monthly meeting last Frida3'- night. Charles Molz read a short-story of merit, and a free-for-all followed. 
—The annual banquet of the New England Club was held in the Kable Dining Hall in South Bend on the Saturda3'- evening following Thanksgi\'ing. Notre Dame's representation from the "Far East" numbers nearl3'- one hundred men. 
—The erection of a rink on the Badin campus presages an actii'^e hockey season at Notre Dame. Father Cunningham will push his squad with, characteristic vigor. Requests for games have already been received from Michigan University and the Michigan School of Mines. 
—^The numerous IFriday night meetings on the campus were held last week. The Pla3'-ers' Club and the Kentuck3'-Club met in the Library, the Surve3'-ors in Science Hall, the Pre-Medics and the Forum in the Main Building, and the semi-finals for the Breen medal in oratory were held in the Library. 
—^The Ohio Cltib at a recent meeting formed a bowling league, which includes teams repre­senting Toledo, Cincinnati, Akron, Lima, Da3'-­ton. Canton, Youngstown, and'the "Big Six" from smaller towns. The members from Cleve­land, Akron, and Toledo will entertain the Varsity basketball squad on its trip through Ohio during the holidays.. . 
—^A number of the students in engineering attended the regular monthly meeting of the St. Joseph's Valley Chapter American Associa­tion of Engineers held in the museum room of the 
Y. M. C. A. building on Monday evening of December 6th. At the end of the cafeteria din­ner Mr. J. L. Stevens discussed the subject "Licensing Engineers in Indiana," and Mr. Dalton Moomaw talked on the "Commis­sion-Manager. Form of Government." These matters will be presented to the General Assem­bly early in January. For the convenience of the. students, the time of,the regular meeting 

'^ e Noure 6ame§choIa8Cie 
•Ofthe Chapter has been changed from the even­ing of the second Monday to the evening of the second Wednesda}'' of-each month. 
—Keen anxiety is being felt by everyone at Notre Dame concerning the illness of George Gipp, a senior in law, now known throughout the countr}' as one of the most notable gridiron figures in 1920. A few days after his last game he suffered a severe attack of tonsilitis which has developed into septic pneumonia. As this issue goes to press, his condition remains, as it has been for several days, ver)!- critical. It is the ardent pra3''er of his host of friends and admirers that he may quickly pass the danger in which he is at present. 
—^The more important election returns are now at last coming through. We learn that John F. Shea, president of the class of '06, has been elected to the Senate in his home State of Massachusetts. Besides leading the class of '06, John played Varsity • baseball, wrote the words of the song which we sing, standing and with bared head, (his brother, the Rev. Michael Shea, '04, wrote the music), proposed and largely put through the first Dome, Incidentally, there are not two more loyal alumni ^anywhere than John and Father "Mike" Shea, and Notre Dame is proud and happy in their success. 
—The Rochester Club met recently to discuss affairs regarding their holidays at home. Roches­ter is one of the cities of the country over which Notre Dame has established a mandate. Last year the Rochester men held a Christ­mas banquet at which they entertained the bishop of the diocese. The gathering together of students within the holidays for a social evening with the.local alumni of the University is a most commendable movement, and it might well be imitated in any city in which there is a sufficient number of Notre Dame students and alumni. The alumni will be more eager for news of.the old school this year than ever before. 
—The first meeting of the Round Table came to order at. the call of Daniel Coughlin, who demonstrated his ability to do other things besides running ninety yards through the Michigan "Aggies." Vincent Bngels read an interesting paper on "Why I became a Jour­nalist." Dr. John M. Cooney, professor of journalism, lauded the spirit shown by the scribes and predicted an. early return of the journalism students to the prominent part in school acti\dties which they played before the war. Rev. Paul Foik, librarian of the University, Morris Starrett, assistant-manager of athletics, and others gave informal talks. 
—^The Players' Club was reorganized recently and plans have been developed for the pro­duction of a stage play or a musical review, to be written and produced by local talent. At the meeting a committee was appointed to wait upon the President of the University con­cerning the project. The following members were elected as officers: John Dempsey, presi­dent; Alexander J. Colgan, secretary; Arthur Shea, publicity agent; and William Lawless, business 'manager. 
—^About fifty members of the journalism and commerce courses met last Tuesday evening under the direction of Father Lahey and or­ganized the Notre Dame Advertising Club. The organization has for its purpose to keep in touch with the developments in advertising in all fields, through cooperative study.' The new club will work in harmony with the Palette Club of the commercial-art department, for the furtherance of interest in the advertising field. The officers of the Advertising Club are: Father Lahey, general director, Harold McKee, presi­dent; James SkuUy, vice-president; Gerald Ashe, secretary; George Slaine, treasurer; John Higgins aud Walter Stuhldreher, consultors. 
—^The first quarterly issue of the Notre Dame Law Reporter for the present year seems to indicate that this periodical, the publication of which began last year, is destined to be of great interest and value to the students and alumni of the Hoynes College of Law. The current issue contains, in addition to the reports the cases of the last quarter of last year from the Junior Moot Court,' the Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court of Notre Dame, an instructive article contributed by Colonel William Hoynes, entitled "The Law and Lawyers," a number of letters from men of the class of '20 and news items concerning other members of that class., An excellent idea is the alumni directory of the College of Law,. begun in this number. All in all,, the faculty and the students of law are to be complimented on the quality of the Reporter. 
—^The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland will hold its first formal ball in Cleveland in the hall of the Gilmour Council of the Knights of Colum­bus, 9104 Euclid Avenue, on Monday evening 

 '^ e Noure 5ame Schoiasde? 
of Januar)'-3rd, 1921. It is the intention of the club to have every Notre Dame man within a reasonable distance of Cleveland present that evening. Tickets for the dance may be secured from Pierre Champion, of Walsh Hall, or by addressing in Cleveland any one of the following committee: Ray S. Miller, Leader News Build-^ ing; James P. De\att,Harcourt Drive; Bernard 
C. McGarrj^ in care of The City Architect's office, Cit}'^ Hall. 
-Fo r the information of any students who mav be interested, the American Chamber of Commerce in France requests this announce­
ment concerning the "Toleration" Prize Essay. jMr. Henr}^ Peartree, one of the founders and a former president of the American Chamber of Commerce in France, donated some time ago to the Chamber the sum of 10,000 francs as a prize fund, to be distributed in equal shares this 3^ear and next for the best essa)- or treatise on the subject of Toleration, economic, political, or rehgious. Thepapers, written in the English orthfe French languages, should be addressed to the American Chamber of Commerce, in France, 32 Rue Taitbout, Paris—for next year's prize by September ist, 1921., and for that •of the i'-ear after not later than March ist, 1922, in packages marked: "Toleration Prize Essay." Each paper should bear the name and address of the author. The length of the essay or treatise should not exceed 10,000 words^ but there is no obHgation on the' writers ito attain this limit, The treatises may deal with the subject from everjr point of \dew or with any part, phase, or 
, aspect of ,it.-, 

—At the last'fortnightly meeting ot the St. Thomas Aquinas Society Mr. James Hogan, 
C: S. C, read a very careful and interesting paper on "Philosophy and Progress." Mr. Hogan defined philosophy as a synthesis of knowledge, which derives its dignity from being . able to satisfy "the natural craving of the human raipd for truth. He contrasted the broad outlook of real philosophy with the very narrow, scope of sdence. He denied that progress consists, as so-man)' think, in a rejection of old truths. and asserted; that it is • rather the gradual ex­pansion of the .fundamental, principles which 
^govern life. He next outlined the new movement  of old principles to new problems. In the  discussion which followed Father Cornelius  Hagerty made the points that science is not  opposed fundamentally to philosophy and that  much of the support of Catholic philosophic  teaching in recent times has come from scientists  outside the Church. Father Cunningham ob­ ser^'-ed that the World War was obviously a  result of false philosophy and that the best  thinkers of the day are returning to the logic, 
;in-;:philosophical;methods sponsored by Leo 
'Xin-ahd  deydopeid  and 
:,sketched:iitscey(^^^^  social 
Hfein:bdng;a~sanie  a^nd p 

 Psychology, and metaphysics of the-schoolmen, ^^'^'^' ^^, ^^^^^^'^^^ will receive-m the years to ^^^^ the serious attention which they deser^^e. 
 —^Mr. Howard W. Matheson, vice-president  of the Canadian Electro Products Company,  of Canada, has on behalf of that company  presented to the University a research fellow­ ship, worth five hundred dollars for the rest of  the year, to defray the expenses of a graduate  student who is to pursue investigation in acety­ lene derivatives. The main offices of this  company are in Montreal and the principal  plants at Shawingan Falls, in the province of  Quebec. -The Canadian Electro is unique in  being the one organization exclusively engaged  in the manufacture of acetylene compounds,  During the late war it produced by catalytic  process more than fift}'- tons of glacial acetic  acid a week. Since the signing of the armistice  its efforts have been devoted to the manu­ facture of various forms-of acet3'-lene products  for commercial purpose. It is interesting to  know that a number of patents secured or ap­ plied for by the Notre Dame research labora­ tories have been accepted on option by this 
 company.  —Ninety Notre Dame men were initiated  into the Notre Dame Council of the Knights  of. Columbus last Sunday.afternoon at the W. 
 O. W; Hall in South Bend. The local Council  conferred the first degree on Friday evening  and the second on Sunday; 'the third degree,  which immediately followed the second, was  in charge of District Deputy Timothy P.  Galvin ('17), and his staff-from Valparaiso.  Supreme Director John F, Martin, of Green 
 Bay, Wisconsin, was the speaker at the banqiiet  held in the Oliver Hotel after the conferring of  the degrees. Mr., Martin recounted some of  his interesting experiences on the recent pil­ grimage of the Knights of Columbus to the  battlefields' of France, to the Vatican, and to  terror-stricken Irdand. He was a member of 


"Sfi© Nocre ©ame Schdascie 
15'S 

the committee that presented the statue of Lafayette to France and the marshal's baton to General Foch. In the absence of Father Thomas Burke, due to illness, Grand Knight Ctisick, of the Notre Dame Council, presided as toastmaster. He introduced Mr. Galvin, who gave a delightful talk on the spirit of Notre Dame. Father George Finnigan, C. S. C., told of the high regard in which the Knights of Columbus were held by the A. K. F. Walter O'Keefe gave a very entertaining monologue, entitled "The Fourth Hawaiian"; Miss Jose­phine Decker, accompanied by Miss Helen Guilfoyle rendered several songs which were highly appreciated, and Miss Helen Miller entertained with a novel Oriental dance. Midnight brought to an end a very interesting day for the Knights both new and old. 
F. A. WALIvACE. 
Press Gomments on N. D. Football. 

Once upon a time years ago there was a King Knute who asked the ocean waves kindly to back up, and they didn't. Right now up in 'Northern Indiana there is another King Knute who is too busy developing a championship football team to command any wavelets to back water, but all Notre Dame Univei^sity will tell you that anything he says goes, and they better not let him too near the ocean, if they want it stayed put. Of course this modern King Knute wears no crown and he goes about the land under the name of Mr. Knute K. Rockne, but he has it on Knute No. i, for he is one of the best football coaches in the country today. Saturday., afternoon at Washington Park Indiana University meets Notre Dame University. It will not only be a good battle between two elevens on the iield, but it will be a battle on the sidelines between Jumbo Stiehm, the Indiana coach, and Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame athletic director* The Stiehm sj'stem is one of the few that has checked,up victory over a Rockne team in the last few j^ears, and if there is any one in the country to stop Rock this season, it looks as if it would have to be Stiehm. At least it will be a good game.—=^(Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis News.) 
* -* * 

Notre Dame played but three Conference games. Indiana, Purdue and Northwestern were snowed under. Rockne had a great outfit" at the Catholic school. There are-those who believe Notre Dame's claim to Western championship the best. At any rate, Notre Dame has a perfect right to claim a tie with Ohio State on her remarkable showing in the East and at home. ... ­The first-string" tackle jobs go to McGuire of Chicago and Captain Coughlin of-Notre Dame. . . . Maurice Smith of Notre Dame stands head and'shoulders, over the'general run for the season. He wins easily. .' . . Brandy of Notre Dame runs a team with greater dispatch and speed than any other Western quarter. 
. . Fourteen halfbacks were considered for. All­All-Western berths. George Gipp of Notre Dame heads the list. He excels as a forward-passer and kicker, and is a dashing open-field runner of superior type. The Notre Dame star is touted for an AU-American berth. He looks to be entitled to it. His punting, and drop-kicking are superior to that of any other man's in the West, and that is saying. a lot.—(By ^Mark Kelly, in the Chicago Herald and Examiner, Decem­ber 5, 1920, on the All-Western selections.) 
* 

Out in the West football fans think their best player of the year is George Gipp, of Notre Dame, and in the East the general opinion is that few backs have been developed in recent years who. had anything on him. * for all-around ability. Gipp is one: of the cleverest players ever turned out in the Mid-West at throwiiig the pass, and when it is considered that the passing game was practically invented at Notre Dame, to rate him as the peer of all passers "in that section is speaking pretty good of Gipp.—(From the Havana Post,, November 22, 1920.) 
* . -' . 

,That Notre Dame University had the greatest football team in the West this season and a machine that could have vanquished Ohio State, winner of .the Big Ten Conference championship, is the opinion^of Elmer McDevitt, Duluth attorney, who has just re­turned to his local law practice after spending the fall season at Evanston, Illinois, where he was head coach of the Northwestern eleven. . . . "The Notre Dame team, which I look upon as the* champions of the West, had one of the best-balanced elevens I have seen in recent years, every man being especially power­ful in his particular position. Their offense was truly ' great, yet simple. The team had wonderful driving power."—(From the Duluth Herald, November,30, 
1920.) 
* * , -, 

If one were to select an all-star array from this combination he should undoubtedly begin with George Gipp, of Notre Dame, the best back in the country, a back who can punt, drop kick, pass, break a line, or run an end There has been a big scarcity this season of triple-threat backs of the Mahan type; not Mahans, for they are always scarce, but ^merely Mahan types. The triple-threater can kick, forward pass and lead the rushing game. Gipp was far and away the best, not very far from being another Mahan. . .' . Gipp alone was wortli two or three specialists for Notre Dame, for when he dropped back the defence had no idea whether he intended to pass, kick, slide off tackle, or run an end. And he could do all four jobs better, than any of the specialists could do one. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune, Decem­
ber 2.) 
* * 

. The other tackle position is given to Captain Frank Coughlin of Notre, Dame, who .piloted his eleven through the season without a defeat.. He knows the position.thoroughly and at Notre Dame is rated with the best linesmen-in the. history of the institution. The Notre Dame leader was one of the main factors in the victory of his team over the Army. His sterling playing brought forth, praise from Eastern critics, some of whom, place him on a par with Keck, the great ^ 


'^e Noure 5ameSeholagcic? 
Princeton tackle. Coughlin's long experience—this 
being his third year on the Notre Dame eleven—is one 
of his best assets. He knows how to do the right thing 
with the least effort, and like Voss mixed in every play. 
In"the Northwestern game it was a frequent occurrence 
to see him run behind his own line and tackle a Purple 
plaj'^er who had crossed the scrimmage line, on cut-
back-in plays. He was also down the field under 
punts and Avas a natural leader. 
George Gipp. the great Notre Dame halfback is 
placed at right half-back. This plaj'er is probably the 
greatest back developed at Notre Dame in years, and 
ranks well with the leading ball carriers ever turned 
out in the section. There is little about football Avhich 
this player cannot do and do well. . . . Gipp would 
be delegated to do the punting and field goal kicking. 
He also would be used to run or forward-pass from 
punt formation.—(By Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago 
Tribune, December 5, 1920.) 
* 
Four 5'^ears ago George Gipp entered Notre Dame 
University unheralded and unhonored. He had never 
plaj'ed a football game in his life. Coach Rockne 
discovered that the green kid had a penchant for kick­
ing and gave him a uniform. Today Gipp is the hero 
of the Hoosier school and considered one of the greatest 
backfield stars in moleskins. .. . In 1919 he was 
hailed as one of the greatest throwers of the forward 
pass, but this season he has added punting and .end­
running to his repertoire of accomplishments. During 
the Armj-game Gipp's punts averaged 60 yards, 
although for two quarters he was kicking against the 
wind. He has always possessed a penchant for doing 
the unexpected. The battle-cry of opposing elevens 
this 3'ear has been "Get Gipp." But they never do. 
That also is a part of-his gridiron smartness. No 
matter how hard opponents play to get him, the Notre 
Dame Tarsan manages to shine with greater luster on 
everj'^ appearance.—(By Dean Snyder, in the Buffalo 
Siivday Times, November 21, 1920.) 
* * 
Numerous stories concerning the eligibilitj' of George 
Gipp, Notre Dame's halfback, have been circulated 
without.'.faimess, according to the Indianapolis News. 
Notre Dame, like all other large universities, has a 
three-year varsity limitation rule, and the Notre Dame 
faculty and athletic authorities enforce this rule through­
out. This is George Gipp's third and last j^ear.—(From 
The Torch, Valparaiso University, November 19.) 
-* * 

"The forward pass will never be worth developing," comments an Eastern scribe. No, not when the talent at hand is made up of timber jacks and deck hands, but*no other play of the game can produce the thrills and gain thie ground of a fbm'ard pass worked with the proper precision. It is the most dangerous angle of-the spoilt. The East was very slow in taking up this modernized version of football. It was not until the light" Notre Dame eleven ran the'Army into a trance some years ago,that this style was taken seriously along the Atlantic seaboard. Dorais, or some such coye, pegged so many passes on the Army that the spectators were dizzy following the ball. The score was about 35 too,when the sailing ended. The Army coaches were "not blockheads, however, "and whaled 
the wadding out of the Navy in the annual game that season, and they did it by picking up the plays that had been worked on them by this same speedy Notre Dame array. Since that timcthe East has recognized in the forward pass the widest possible range of play and has lost little time in working the overhead attack. —(The Mem^phis News Scimilar.) 
* * *
Our Army eleven, mighty throughout the season 

and for three-quarters of its game against Notre Dame, 
ran into a cul-de-sac or a chevaux-de-jrise or perhaps an 
abballoir, during the last period, and Notre Dame today 
is hailed as second to none.—(By George Currie, 
Brookljm Eagle, November i.) ^' 
* * 
Just once this year I have seen the quick kick utilized 

in a major game. Notre Dame flashed it against the 
Army on last Saturday and gained more ground with 
it than with any other kick it made. The soldiers, 
sucked in close by a line-attack, were taken completely 
by surprise, and the ball rolled deep into West Point 
territory. With a clever punter to do the booting, there 
is no reason whj' this manoeuver should not come into 
greater use. It is sound, if used wisely, and has a 
demoralizing effect.—(New York Evening Sun, Novem­
ber 13, 1920.) ' * 
* * 

Back in that winter of 1S42 when Father Sorin and his little band of followers, just landed from France, made their perilous journey through the wilderness over snow and ice, and in the heart of an unbroken forest began work on a small log-cabin between two beautiful little lakes in St. Joseph County, Indiana, they certainly started something. No doubt even in the bleakness of their first Hoosier winter the little log-cabin school became in their visions the great iVistitution that Notre Dame University is today. 
However, could these educational pioneers have dropped in casually at Carrier field last Saturday afternoon and heard the wild war-whoops that greeted the' whirlwind Notre Dame attack that swept the Purdue defense off the field, even with all their con­structive imagination, so characteristically French, they scarcely would have recognized these athletic phenomena as among the things they, had started. In fact, they probably would have thought that the Indians they had come to civilize had won after all._ For wilder than any Pottawotamie yell that ever ripped the early Hoosier atmosphere was the Notre Dame victorj--cry that'rose and swelled from 12,000 spectators when George Gipp running from piint formation raced eighty yards through the whole Purdue team for the touchdown that marked the high spot of a game full of high spots. 
Notre Dame beat Purdue 28-0, and the score might just as well have been 50-6 had Knute K. Rockne so willed and kept his firsj string men on the job. This is no slam at Purdue—it simply means that the 1920 Notre Dame team is one of the greatest football aggregations in America today. Following the West Point gaine a week ago. Eastern critics, usually so conservative,, shouted it from their headlines, and not a few frankly said that in, their opinion-Notre Dame was one touchdown better than any team in the country. ' ­

^e Notre 5ame Schdasder 
_ This Notre Dame team is wonderful. It has weight, speed, variety of attack, initiative galore, and football genius. Just how much of this is Knute Rockne and how much is natural ability is hard to say, but the two have fused and welded into a whole that has made good the boast of the" Notre Dame song, "Old Notre Dame Will Win Over AH.". . . . There is no doubt that George Gipp is one of the greatest football players that ever came out of the West—or East, for that matter—^but Notre Dame is not a,one-man team by a whole lot. When Gipp gets away with his sensational runs he has the very able co-operation of the ten other men on the field. Without Gipp it still would be a great team.—(Thomas A. Hendricks, Indianapolis News, November 9.) 
* * 

The Boilermakers put up a great battle against the Irish, but "the greatest team in the country" was simply too good, and the Boilermakers bowed in defeat before the mighty Catholic aggregation. The game was exceptionally clean and good sportsmanship marked the contest throughout the entire afternoon. It is surely no disgrace to be beaten by such a wonderful aggregation.—(The Purdue Exponent.) 
* * 

Fighting to the last, the plucky Army eleven out­played but game, went down to defeat^here today before the fast, powerful eleven from the University of Notre Dame, of South. Bend, Indiana. The final score was Notre Dame, 27; Army 17. Although the Westerners trailed for three-quarters of the game, their powerful reserve told in the end and in the final period they put the quietus on the Army men. The game was witnessed by a crowd estimated at 10,000. The field was in good shape in spite of the recent rains. 
Notre Dame resorted to forward-passing frequently, Gipp and Kiley figuring in several long gains through this medium. • But the Westerners outrushed the Cadets in every quarter. Mohardt and Gipp bored through the Army line almost at will. Gipp proved a powerful runner, the like of whom has not been seen here since the days of Jim Thorpe, the old Carlisle player. He was' prominent in every advance of the visitors.—(From the Brooklyn Eagle, October 31.) 
* 
* * 

It was a football exhibition well worth going many miles to see. It was a hard contest, fought with vigor 
- and vim by both sides all the way, but it was also the greatest game, both for attack and defense, which has been seen in the East this season. The Army was beaten, but even in defeat it covered itself with glory. In the development of defense, in all-around effective­ness in both the old and the new football, in sheer brilliancy, the eleven from Indiana, with the scin­tillating Gipp always in the van, practically outclassed the Army. Notre Dame made twenty first-downs, as against only four of.the Army. We do not think that any team in this country could have won over the team from the West as it played here today. 
—(Daniel, in the New York //eraW.) 
* * 

It was home-coming day at Notre Dame and the' old grads came all the way-from Missoula, Montana, and Pittsburg for the big day, the biggest that South Bend has ever seen. The bunch included XouisSam­
mon, John Miller, Al Feeney, "Red" Miller, Ray 
Eichenlaub, and many other old football stars. Notre 
Dame certainly knows how to treat visitors. Friday-
night the student body threw a parade for Purdue, 
flocked into the'Oliver hotel and cheered every man 
on the Purdue team individually. Then they called 
for speeches. Cooley, the big Purdue guard, who, by, 
the way, played one peach of a game, won the oratorical 
honors with the following masterpiece, which met with 
100 per cent approval from both teams: "Fellows," 
he said, " I don't know which of us will win tomorrow, 
but this I do know: both of us are going to beat the 
life out of Indiana." Prolonged applause. 
Notre Dame's cheering was splendid. Al Slaggert, cheer-leader, was refreshingly short on acrobatics, • but long in getting the noise of the stands unified. Every Purdue player who left the game or was injured received a cheer. The singing was as good as any heard in the State this year.—("Mixed Up Pickups," Indian­apolis News, November 9.) 
** * 

. . . Notre Dame which swamped the- Army today at West Point could fairly smother either the Buckeyes or the Maroonsy-—(The Lincoln 5far.) 
* * 

Notre Dame, if it wins its remaining games—and_^ there is .every reason to believe it will—should be . rated oneof the strongest teams in the country. The decisive victory that Coach Rockne's team won over West Point, 27 to 17, stamps the aggregation as one of the greatest offensive and defensive powers, and half-back Gipp, of Notre Dame, as one of the best back-field players in the country.—(The Chicago ­Tribune.) -., * -' 
** * 

Knute-K. Rockne's Notre Dame eleven, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not the greatest football team in the country, buried the fighting Boilermakers Saturday afternoon on Cartier field, before a Homecoming crowd of 12,000 people, 28 to o. George Gipp, although he played but two quarters of the game, stood head and shoulders above any backfield man on the gridiron: As one of the spectators was heard to say, "it was worth the price of admission to see Gipp make that eighty-yard run."—:(By Robert McMahori, in the Indianapolis Star, November 8i) 
* * 

There are a number of great players on this year's Notre Dame eleven. Captain Coughlin, the tackle, is one of the best performers in the country, regardless of the'many plays sent at the tackles, some of which call for the tackle to be boxed, and others to knife 
-him" out. Coughlin geneirally manages to upset most plays sent to him. Besides Captain Coughlin in the line. Smith is probably the best guard in the West. He was a tower of strength a year ago and is playing better this season.—(Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago Tribune, November 28.) 
* 
* * 

They are saying this year that Notre Dame has two teams—George Gipp and ten other men. The lithe-limbed Hoosier halfback is the Goliath of a big, shifty, well-drilled and powerful eleven. If there is anything that Gipp' can't do on the football field it isn't dis­cernible to the naked eye. . gj.. If is his last year at 

^e Nocre Same ^cholascic 
Notre Dame and it might be added that the door to the All-American mythical eleven, of 1920 is standing wide open to the great Hoosier back.—(Dean Snyder, in the Toledo Times.) 
* 
* * 

But the Army Avas up against more than it could handle—possibly more than Harvard, Yale, Princeton, or Pitt could have handled—another, Penn State plus George Gipp. . . . George Gipp, of Notre Dame, a long-legged, spraddle-legged Kangaroo halfback, steps into the picture as the leading 1920 star. Gipp is the best back we have seen in a lohg time—another Eddie 
•IMahan and everj'- whit as good.—(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.) * * 
While Penn State has the best record in its region 
and now looms up as the strongest Eastern team, the 
best of all the American college teams this year is 
Notre Dame. The Avriter's candid judgment is that 
Coach Rockne's Fighting Irish, playing on a dry field, 
can trim any other aggregation—East, West, South, 
or Ear West, by as much as two or three touchdowns. 
. . . Having seen Way (Penn State) when he was scin­
tillating at his verj'^ best, the writer considers Gipp a 
more versatile and, therefore, more valuable backfield 
performer than the Penn State dazzler. Gipp can do 
everj'thing that a high-class footballer is expected to 
do, and his equal is not in moleskins on any college 
eleven this year. Next to Heston, Michigan star of 
fifteen years ago, and Guy Chamberlain, who flashed 
so brilliantly for the Cornhuskers of 1914 and 1915, 
Gipp is the greatest backfield performer the West has 
developed in a long stretch of gridiron history.—(" Cy " 
Sherman, in the Lincoln Daily Star.) 
* * 

In the matter of coming from behind to win out in football, one of the hardest assignrnents in the Avorld of sports, the Notre Dame eleven seems to be in^a class bj'^ itself. In three of its seven contests with the Army, it has turned the trick. In 1917 the Westerners won" out late in the game. Last year with the score 9 to o against them, the Westerners came, back in the second lialf with a spirited rally and a brilliant, aerial attack and won out, 12 to 9. Last Sarurday the Cadets were leading up to the last period, when the Indiana team uncorked a hard-hitting- attack to win by 10 points. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.) 
Only a game between Ohio State and Notre Dame -would convince the Hoosier following that Gipp and, his-band are,the best in the West. With no way ol 
• settling the- dispute about the relative ability of the teams, it is.a matter of opinion and the East favors Notre. Darnel—(Henry. Earrell, in the. South Bend 
•News-Times.) \ . ., . . , 
• "^ -'•'-.'• '--, -* * • .--" 

With the final swing - into the homestretch of -the football season, those who, have been watching the performances of the various football teams through : the .schedules have been^ tucking away back in their . memories the doings of certain players who,-will be 'trotted out later, on as members of the mythical eleven 
•whichis
 supposed to represent the ideal of the gridiron. 

•
 Qiiechap stood^qut in the. game in the'East yesterday ^ who looks like acertaint^- .^That is,George Gipp, whom 


we watched on the Plains at West Point running riot for Notre Dame against the ArmJ^ There were few of those who saw him as the Cadets were routed who did not agree that he is one of the most spectacular and startling players of the year. . . . That Notre Dame eleven looked about as good as anything that has been seen in the East this year and it seems a pity that it is not scheduled to meet Penn State or Harvard. . . . The team has everything necessary in its repertoire up to the minute and Saturday it lived up to the form it displayed when it came here first a few years ago and opened the eyes of the Easterners by a dazzling display of whizz-bang aerial tactics. . . . The name of Gipp may not. have a romantic sound to it, but its echo ought to be heard for many a day where deeds of the gridiron are recounted.—(Van Ness, in the New York Evening Telegram, November 7.) 


The Final Victory. 
NOTRE DAIVIE, 25; M. A. C, o. 
The Notre Dame football team of 1920 
completed on Thanksgiving Day at Lansing, 
Michigan, its list of nine \dctories for the season. 
This makes for Notre. Dame the second con­
secutive year without a defeat and the eleventh 
without a defeat since she first entered the 
intercollegiate sport in 1887. . The 25-to-o 
victory scored by Coach Rockne's men over the 
renovated team of the Michigan Agricultural 
College emphasizes again the real championship 
calibre of the Gold and Blue. Though lacking 
the services of its great star, George Gipp, the 
team performed most admirably, and for, 
nearly a half of the.game functioned perfectly 
with all second-string men in play. The com­
parative power of the winners is not adequately 
indicated by the score. A cold, drizzly day, a 
muddy field, and a wet ball hindered the usual 
sprint and dash features of the Gold and Blue 
attack and made the forward-pass precarious. 
The backfield combinations, however, were 
consistent in s,weeping gains through, around, 
and over the "Aggie" defenses. The line did 
its work magnificentl}'-, in the ,second half re­
peatedly smashiiig the. "Aggie" plays before 
they were fairly started. 
Danny Coughlih's ninety-five yard run on 
the first kick-off was the feature play of the contest. Mohardt's forward-passing showed where the key to the 1321 aerial attack is to be found. Castner plunged, for handsome gains every time he was permitted, and Barry's last-game dashes around the ends were a fitting climax to his'stellar career.. Of the linesmen Captain Coughlin was. easily the most brilliant. ..In the latter part of the third period he began 

'^e Hocve-Marine ScMasme
 199 
r 

his old role of breaking through and inhibiting - Dame's scoring would cease. Well into the 
the opponents' attacks before they had started second period the forwards of the opposition 
or breaking up their formation on its first held stubbornly, ~and the backs kicked out of ' 
move. Several times the Captain's aggressive- danger when they got the ball., Toward the end 
ness forced the "Aggies" to kick onthe second of the second period Coach Rockne sent in his ' 
down. "Buck "Shaw also had a hand in mussing regulars. Under the command of Brandy the ; 
up the Green attack and for the fifth time this Varsity machine got slowly but surely into 
year blocked a punt, preparatory to a Notre action and plowed its way irresistibly toward" 
Dame touchdown. Smith, Anderson, and Larson the "Aggies'" goal. On the third down, with 
in the center of the line deserve special mention, only three yards left, the whistle blew for 
Coach Rockne's men were the first on the the half, with the score at 6 for Notre Dame and 
field, and they entertained an interested crowd o for the "Aggies." / • 
with the usual preliminary'- signal drills, kicks, The Hdosiers got down to business promptly 
and passes. Everybody wanted to know which in the third period. Shaw's kick-off went out 
was Gipp and was disappointed when his ab- of bounds on the "Aggie" five-yard line,-and 
sence was announced. The green-clad "Aggie" on the second kick-off Eddie Anderson threw-
crew trotted in and began their warming-up Johnson for a two-yard loss as the latter caught 
manoeuvers. It was evident that they had a the ball. Captain Coughlin's crew presented a 
hea^'y line and plenty of "pep." Captain stone-wall defense, and the "Aggies" kicked. 
Coughlin won the toss and chose to defend the . Notre Daine failed to complete passes by Mo-
south goal. Rockne then detailed his second- hardt.' Castner punted and the '"'Aggies" 
string warriors to start the battle. Few specta- returned the compliment. After gaining twelve 
tors realized that the regulars were in reser\'-e yards on the exchange, Notre Dame started a 
and few believed it when told. , The first ball drive from her 35-yard line. Mohardt and' 
sailed high and lazily down the field and finally, Barry went around the flanks for twenty-
Danny Coughlin took it, standing on his own yard gains until the ball was on the opponents' 
five-yard line, with a horde of tacklers sweeping five-yard line. Here Castner on a fake off-
upon him. The "gang" bowled over the more tackle play plowed through center and scored 
dangerous ones, and Coughlin started his the second touchdown. Shaw, failed to make 
weaving sprint through and around the others, the goal. 
The fast interference swept to the right side as Shaw" kicked to Johnson, who ran the ball far as midfield, where Coughlin sprinted ahead back twenty yards but fumbled as he was of it, dodging and side-stepping the opposition, tackled. Brandy recovered it and speedily -and then was off on a bee-line for the "Aggie" the Notre Dame line.and backs drove, the goal, with the whole field after him, some Green's defense back to their, goal. The Far-­
in useless pursuit and others, for purposeful mers failed to stop Castner's plimge'for the V 
protection. He registered the touchdown with third touchdown. Again the kick for goal went 
time to spare. The "Aggie" crowd groaned, amiss. . , 
while a few scattered Notre Dame followers At this point .Phelan, Hayes, and several 
cheered and whooped wildly. "Coughlin failed otheir second-team men were returned to ithe 
to kick the goal. field. Notre Dame received the kick-off, but 
On the next kick-off Castner received the failed to gain appreciably. It was well .towards 
ball and ran it to his own thirty-five yard line,' the middle.of the fourth quarter, .after Schwei 
where the battle began in earnest. Walsh had • attempted a punt from-his own twenty-
featured in slashing off-tackle drives and Castner five yard mark, that the fourth touchdown 
in line-plunges. On the fourth play Coughlin resulted. On this play lyarsori, Coughlin, 
was thrown hard as he ripped through the center Anderson,, and Shaw all "broke through and 
of the line for a substantial gain; and sustained - rushed the kicker. Shaw blocked the ball, 
a shoulder injury which took him from the and Anderson-recovered.and carried it across 
game. Mohardt was substituted, but the the "Aggie" goal. .Brandy added with his toe 
attack could not get going fast enough for the the twenty-fifth point. For the remainder of 
end-runs of the Gary speed-boy. The "Aggie" the game the Varsity was content to hold things 
line," responding, to the cheers of the crowd, even. And thus ended the ninth and last battle 
held courageously, and it seemed'as if Notre of 1920, in which_tfie Rockne system triumphed 
200 


'^e Nocre (borne Schdascic 
over the Zuppke system, as exemplified by­"Potsy" Clark's men. I/ine-up and summarj'-. 
NOTRE DAME M . A. C. Hayes Left End Bassett A*6ss Left Tackle Bos Degree Left Guard Mattson Mehre ' Center Ball Dooley Right Guard Radwald Garvey Right Tackle Lefter Carberry Right End - Thompson Grant Quarterback • Springer Walsh Left Half-back Johnson Coughlin Right Half-back Noblett Castner Fullback Hammes 
Score by Periods: Notre Dame 6 o 12 7—25 Michigan Aggies 00 0 o— o 
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Brandy for Grant; Mohardt for Coughlin; - Barry for Walsh; Kiley for Hayes; E. Anderson for Carberry; Larson for Mehre; 
H. Anderson for Dooley; Shaw for Voss; Phelan for Castner. Michigan Aggies—^Anderson for Bos; Larson for Rawald; Schwei for Noblett. 
Notre Dame scoring—Touchdowns: Coughlin, Cast­ner 2, E. Anderson; Goal from touchdown, Castner. 0£5cialsrr-Referee, Gardner, Cornell; umpire, Lipske, Chicago; headlinesman. Samp, Wisconsin. Time of periods, 15 minutes. 


Safety Valve. 
. - THE 1920 ALL-ELEVEN. 
We have used more care and taken more time in the selection of this year's "Valve" team than ever before. This was due partly to the fact that we were campused 

.and were not compelled to go to town every day, and partly to the fact that we did not have to. worry about our classes, since we flunked in all of them. Some of the players when viewed as football stars are probably not entitled to the consideration we have given them, but they received Thanksgiving boxes from home and invited us to partake of them, and surely gratitude is a precept of the natural law. Besides, the good players that were left-off this team passed in all their classes, . and it stands to reason that a fellow who spends^so much time at his books can't excell in football. Many of them, too, were never inside of Hully and Mike's, . the home of the criss-cross play, where the prefect . comes in the front door and the student goes out the ^ back door. Apart from having chosen the men we like and the men who fed us, no favoritism has been shown, and the team stands on its own merits—though 
, many of the players are ladened with demerits. 
R. E,—Hamm:(D) . R. T.—Stone (B) ^ ., : 
R:G.—Gorilla (D) ; -'". •'.. 
} . .. C.^avage" (D) - .; .^ . ,. V ^ :' V :L.-G^-^urey (D) ' -', .' ; :r ;;L' T.—Steele (D) :/ . ,' '. 

* ; ;>.: - L. E.—Hunger (Br) . .: ' :i >^ ; li^ iV'^ R.H:B.—Pierce (Bd) : ." ^ 
"-- :V>L.H.;B.—Sharp (K). ^/: ' /^; ' : Q. B.-^Eoote (Libraiy) >^.; . '­
We have placed Hamm and Hunger at ends simply on account of one play which they have perfected and which never fails to gain ground. It is the old play of the left end skirting the right side of the line. Hamm starts down the field at full speed and the quarter­back having tucked the ball under Hunger's arm without the latter's observing it puts him on the trail of Hamm. No eleven players this season have been able to keep Hunger from getting Hamm, and for this reason many. touchdowns were made. As tackles, we have selected two of the hardest men at the Uni­versity, Stone and Steele, These men, though they do not play a shifting game, can be relied upon to stop any plays coming their way, and many a head has bumped into them only to be compelled to open up, 
instead of playing the line-plunging game. As guards, we have placed Gorilla and Furey on account of their agressiveness _and because of the terror they inspire in opposing players. When these two guards are linked with Savage, the pivotal man, they form a veritable trio of wild men Avho would scare most any-kind of opponents. We have chosen Foote as quarterback on account of his ability to punt and drop-kick. In so far as we know, no one in the country is able to kick like Foote. Should it seem desirable to use forward passes. Hand might easily be^substituted for Foote. Our two half-back.5 are Pierce and Sharp, and they have been put at this position because of their pene­trating power., Pierce can plunge through any kind of a player and Sharp has a cutting way-that gives him the edge on most other half-backs in the school. As sub­stitutes for these men we can use Ford and Carr of the Day Students, who have probably more speed than any students' at the University. 

We looked long for a fullback who would be worthy of the position and finally decided on Dashbach. Since we have no desire to see a man take a ball and dash back instead of forward, we conceived the idea of heading this man toward his own goal and giving him the ball. Of course the opposing players would see him, Dashbach, but what could they do? He would probably make many touchdowns for the team. 
We thought somewhat of using Barber of the Day students as an end, but he has a habit of clipping which-the referees do not like and the last man that played against him had a close shave. Mudd of the Day Students was also a strong contender for a place, but he is a dirty player and was barred for this reason. Although Bell of Walsh played excellent football all season, on account of his being a ringer we could not give him a berth on this eleven. ..Doll of Corby and Love of Brownson were also suggested to. us by friends, but both are so soft that we feared they might weaken the team. If any one is to be substituted in the line proba­bly Lawless would best take the place of Savage or Furey. Derrick of the Day -Students will be on the bench and^will probably be used, as he is a wonder at lifting an opposing player from his feet and dropping him softly out of the play. 
. -This is our selection and we make no apologies for it. -We wish to state however that the players who made this team are not to pay us in checks,'as we find great 
• V :J'y'^y-S^:i/- >:-:B,--Dash1jacii-(W)' 'x-'^-'r '':l, - >':>- ^^ trouble in cashing, them.. .:,.. ­


