iiffiiWfttiwffli'miiwMii 
• .,.„• •-..-^ -.,.-,^- ^...w-.^»i^^-^La..ri«au»s.,i<.^j-it-.<»ai«^,v-jtf>^ .-^-.•, .j..sa£fe-t;­
JT 
NOTRE DAME MEN 
Here are fhe 


NEW SCHOOL BELTS 
with YOUR SCHOOL MONOGRAM in SCHOOL COLORS on buckle Belts by HICKOK Buckles by HERFF-JONES  \i &  
%.; '•J  
$295 Plus 19c TcDc  
"VTOW you can get one of these distinctive.belts—of fine flexible leathers by Hickok—buckles by Herff-Jones. Individualized with yovu- school letter enameled in your school colors on highly polished buckle. Get yours now and be among the first to wear this handsome school belt.  
Shop Tonight! — TAXI FREE —  
GILBERT'S  i i  

813-817 S. Michigan St. 
S O L/ 7 H END G E S I <^ K FOR MEN! 
\ 
J 


{ "V 
You are Always a Guest Here Before You Are a Customer 
Home of Famous Names in Men's Quality Clothing Hickey-Freeman ... Society Brand ... Burberry .. ."GGG"... Alpagora... British-R... Dobbs 


GILBERT'S 
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET 
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN! 
)

\ 
THE WEEK John A. O'Connor 
o ** 
% ^ 
5^ 
STANZ CHEESE 
A Cheese to please every taste. 




Stanz Cheese Co. 
South Bend 

With the closing of the grid season comes the time for picking "AH" teams, handing out monograms, giving prizes, and getting the autographs of the heroes on a cheap football to be sent back home to cousin Joe. So to those who might be passed up in the scramble to award tro­phies, the following commemorative is dedicated, and written cognizance be­stowed : 
Hardest Little Little Man: Emil Slo­vak, who despite his short ration of stature, has been jolting the bigger boys into lullaby-land ever since he first re­ported at Cartier Field. Elsewhere this vest-pocket V-2 might have been a head­liner. 
Most Unfortunate Top-notcher: Frank Tripucka, second-best quarterback in the land who plays behond the Number One boy Lujack. Not since Frank Carideo directed the 1930 campaign has there been a quarterback of such potentialities in this neck of the woods. He is like the man with the second-best hand in poker. He may yet move past the current glory-grabber. 
Biggest Chow Hound: Frank Kosikow­sM. The Milwaukee Mauler makes Henry the Eighth's gastronomical gymnastics look like birdpickings. The only thing that will keep this cleated gourmet from All-America end berth in 1947 will be a heavily-loaded cafeteria tray. 
Outstanding Freshmen: Take your choice. Hart, Martin, Strohmeyer, Sitko, Zalejski, Swistoivicz. But keep your eye on the latter. No back starts faster or is as hard to bring down as Mike. Watch him go in '47. 
According to Jim Mathis, our corres­pondent on the UCLA campus. Bob Waterfield, former Bruin star and pro luminary with the LA Rams, says he will take Ernie Case, the current UCLAN quarter, ahead of both Army's Tucker and ND's Johnny Lujack. That's saying an awful lot. 
With the recent snub of Army by Wes t Coast Conference (Northern Branch) heads came the threat of res­ignation from the league by the two Southern California schools USC and UCLA. Western sportswriters, acknowl­edging the growth of UCLA to a big-time basis, suggested the Bruins take on more intersectional foes, thereby build­ing national prestige, luring bigger crowds, and breaking away from the ties that bind them to such breathers as Montana, Idaho, etc. This year the 
Bruins are taking on Nebraska, and have ^}; 

a  game scheduled Avith Northwestern in  <-;  
'47. Now why  not  a  game \vitYi Notre  v;  
Dame? Every time the Irish go to Los  tr  
Angeles they fill the mammoth Coliseum  | •  
with between 95 and 100 thousand wild  ||;  
fans. Going there  once  a year  (against  I?  
USC or  UCLA depending on the home­ v:.  
and-home  arrangements)  would  do  no  S  
harm  to  our  piggy-bank. In fact,  after  \}  
a few years maybe we could have a new  p  
gym  and  fieldhouse,  or  a  new  Union  §  
building housing theatre, lounge, dance  t:  
floor and clubrooms. In fact maybe  we  |  
could regild the Dome, or even slice the  |  
tuition.  \  

Since everbody else seems ix) be pick­ing AU-Americans there really is no rea­son why we can't too, as it's all a matter of opinion anyway. So here goes: 

Right End: Mr. Murray, of the Dis­cipline Office. Murray covers his terri­tory like a hawk, plays a floating flanker from his position in a back booth at Wal­green's. His campaigns against the Lido and the Melody have tripped many a highball carrier. You can't get by his post without a green card. 
Right Tackle: Waldemar Gurian. This intellectual heavyweight has proven a solid unmovable mass when it comes to stopping verbal scatbacks. His knowledge of the game, from Aristotle to Maritain, keeps our tackle slot impermeable to commie onslaughts. 
Right Guard: Father McAvoy, Head of the History Department. His vicious blocks, by way of outside reading tests, have jarred students from top to tarsal. You can't get around him, but you've gotta get by him. 
Center: Hop-along-Cassidy. Despite in­juries (he has a slight limp) old Hop-along is in their every Saturday at the Kid shows and serial shoot-'em-ups. He plays a clean, hard game, obeys the training rules, and isn't afraid of a fight. 
Left Guard: For this position we sought a man who was a real play-wrecker, somebody that steps on every­body and is just a general meanie. Our only choice could be the guy that sat the ND students in the fox-holes at the Army game, giving them a very uncom­fortable and memorable afternoon. 
Left Tackle: John McAllister. This is the only guy who can say he's actually stopped Lujack, Zalejski, Cowhig, Con­nor, Fischer, Rovai, and all the rest. He 
(Continued on Page 8) 





A Good Job 
Well Done, Irish! 
Book Store Dining Hall Huddle 
A NOTRE DAME CONTRIBUTION 
TO AMERICAN CULTURE 
Comments on 

recent issues: 
"I would like very par­ticularly to congratulate you on the publication of Clara Menck's 'Germany Today!' It seems to me by all odds the most penetrating anal­ysis yet made." 
—Walter Lippman, noted journalist and author. 
"I shall be ver)' glad to draw attention to the Re­view. It is in my opinion the best of our political science periodicals." 
—Ha7is Kohn, of Sviith College, ?ioted author and observer. 
"This time it was the ar­ticle by H. C. E. Zacharias. 'The Road to Indian Au­tonomy,' that I found most enlightening." 
—Professor Albert Guer­ard, of Stanford University, former French Ambassador. 
The Review of Politics is a fine gift for a friend of Notre Dame. 
FOR ONE YEAR $3.00 
ONE ISSUE $1.00 
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTION 
$3.40 

THE 


REVIEW OF POLITICS 
Vol.8 OCTOBER. 1946 No. 4 
Jacques Moritain:  The Person and the  
Common Good  
N. S. TimashefF:  The Soviet Union and  
World Peace  
Richard Pattee:  The Argentine Question:  
The War Stage  
Bernard Wall:  England in 1946  
Wilhelm Roepke:  The German Dust-Bowl  
Quincy Wright:  Making the United  
Nations Work  

SUBSCRIPTIO NThe Editors of the Review of Politics Notre Dame, Indiana Please enter my subscription to the Reviewat $3.00 per year.   BLAN K of Politics  for.  year(s).  
Name  
Street  
•  Check enclosed  City  
•  Please send bill  State  

~\ 

SUBSCRIBE fofhe... 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Complete Coverage of Notre Dame 
•
 SPORTS 

•
 NEWS 

•
 FEATURES 


Subscription rate for the remainder — 16 ISSUES begin­
of the school year ning JANUARY 10. 
$2.30 
Name 
Address. 

(Clip blank and mail to Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind., with your remittance.) 
_l 

r 
DCME d4Hce '42 now in the making. 
Orders will be accepted until December .15 — Price: $7.00 the copy. DOME will be forwarded about May 15. 1947. 
(This does not opply to undergraduote students who will receive a copy, the cost of which is included in the general fee.) 
Name. 
Address. 
(Clip blank and mail to Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind., with your remittonce.) 
isn't afraid of the Devil, sasses back to monsters, throws towels at AH-Ameri­cans and gives ND athletes more of a cuffing around than all the opposition rolled together. 
Left End: Harry"Truman. Stepping into a position vacated by a 12-year ]et­terman, Harry has been on the receiving end of Republican passes ever since. 
Quarterback: Maureen O'Hara. A sure-fire pass defender, in excellent shape all season, this Irish doll far sur­passes the more publicized candidates for this iJosition. She can call our signal anytime. 
Right Halfback: Louie Budenz. What a ball carrier! With Louie packing the leather the enemy's ranks ai-e sure to be scattered. His knowledge of the op­position makes him a dangerous threat at all times. Lucky we have him on our side. 
Lef t Halfback: Ex-Representative May. The Kentuckian took off like he was bitten by the blue-tailed fly once the Mead investigating committee moved in. His open-field running was phenomenal. Hei'e's the break-away runner Leahy has been looking for. 
Fullback: John L. Lewis, one man ter­roi-, snarls up the works once he gets his hands on the ball. His average per ti-y is the best in the land. This bushy­browed bruiser is the most feared party-line ci-asher in the country. 
Boy Shows Confidence In Our Blessed Lady 
A little ten-year-old nephew of one of the Sisters became so confident and en­thused over Notre Dame Avinning the Ai-my game that he draped the Sacred Heart, Our Lady's statues, the Cnicifix, and St." Michael's statue with Notre Dame pennants. 
His mother, fearing there was a pos­sibility of his being disappointed, said to him: "Son, remember Notre Dame has not a Blanchard nor a Davis on her team." "Yes, mother, that is very true, they haven't, but remember they have a Lady on their team that Army doesn't have, and S/ie will stand on that goal line and not let a man pass for a touch­

W.L.DOUGLAS #SHOE C0..BROCKT0N iS.MASS. 
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Look To 


GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan St. 
for ARROWS 
down for Army."—As told by the mother 

Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer 
of Bitty Gallagher, 825 K Street N.E., Washington, D. C. 

Ifs Adler's for ARROIVS 


m^ oM 
«N m (MNER.... MKWftAN ( MSRHiM 
Yes^ Arrow makes a sweet sport shirt! 
Whether you're a grizzled veteran with a hatful of battle stars or a pea-green freshman straight from high school, your old friend Mr. Arrow makes a sports shirt you will like. 
College men are discovering that the same quality, style and wearability which distinguishes their fa­vorite Arrow oxford and broadcloth shirts are present in Arrow sports shirts. 
Most Arrov/ Sports Shirts are washable, so you will save on dry-cleaning bills too! Every one a honey! 
ARRO\N SHIRTS and TIBS 
UNDERWEAR • SPORTS SHIRTS • HANDKERCHIEFS 
Congratulations 
to the 
Notre Dame 
Football Team 
from 
Rose Sc Katz 
Home of 
*
 Kuppenheimer 

*
 Clipper-Croffr 

*
 Botany 


* Arrow Shirts 
Rose Sc Katz 
For Men and Young Men 
Main and Colfax 

M ReUoo4*el
Walker's 

Me QfiecdUf
SHOE STORE 
Congrofufofes 
ffie 
1946 
Squad 
We were happy to award Ae first scoring player in every game a pair of Walker's Shoes. 
WALKER'S 
136 N, Michigan St. 

ZYGMONT CZAROBSKI 
Reverend Fathers and the Great Read­
OVER THE AIR WAVES ing Public: 
The recent announcement of the most valuable player in the National League failed to reveal that anyone had voted Vet Club prexy Joe Dillon recently got for the pride of the Cubs' bench, Bill himself embroiled in a radio discussion Nicholson. Apparently Bert Wilson has aired over a Chicago station. He and a munched on his words of last spring. 

Northwestern man were attempting to Whatever may be said of AVilson and persuade a U. of Chicago Hutchinsite his Nicholsonphileism, he does give aof the desirability of intercollegiate ath­good account of a baseball game, which letics. The U. of C. man was anti-is more than another Chicago announcer athletics, as might be expected of one does. If you listen to this worthy, espe­under the esthetic wing of Bob Hutchins. 
cially on a wire reconstruction, you can He sounded like all the sports denuncia­be forgiven for getting the idea you are tors; he was obviously an intense young listening to the reconstruction of a chess man who couldn't be bothered with such match played in Persia in 1189 B.C. . . ;hoi-poloi things as football or basketball. 

it's like the old Abbott-Costello gag of This song is a favorite ditty of the par­Who's on first. This column is never lor-tea intelligentsia. Joe Dillon and his sure exactly who is. 

Northwestern colleague explained pretty •well that football and intellectual attain­ments are not incompatible, but our ved-
HERE . . . AND THERE . . . dy veddy cultui*ed friend could not agree. 
Recent finger-pointing at Notre Dame's About all we can do with that type of athletic methods by apologists for the mousy f elloAv is to ignore him and his en­Big Nine are a big haw-haw. The pious tire clan. The U. of C. was Interested in Big Nine, casting its eyes heavenwards, football as long as it was winning, but says with tears in its eyes that naughty when the rest of the conference began to old Notre Dame gets some of the ath­use the Chicago game as a practice ses­letes right out of its own backyard. Fie, sion, Chicago suddenly had a revelation for shame, N.D.! We might ask the em­of truth and light. It faded out of the barrassing question, who came to South big time like a fairy dream melting Bend and offered one of our football away, soon decided that the whole thing stars all this and heaven too if he would was utterly beneath it. A fine Christmas pack his bags and follow that individual present for the good chancellor and his in a northerly direction. Another big vassals might be a very dead mackerel coach or two has been weeping and and an equally fishy sneer. 

gnashing his teeth that they don't get their share of the booty. Judging from the scores of the past few years, these gentlemen weren't exactly behind the 
VAIN IMAGININGS 
door when the wartime talent was pass­This column recently saAV reprinted a ed out. 
famous sports commentator's story con­•
cerning a boxing match between Rockne and Eisenhower long, long ago. Ap­AND ACROSS THE ROAD .. . parently the magazine which reprinted The Ladies at St. Mary's recently had this oldie was unaware that there wasn't a field hockey championship playoff, but 
a word of truth in it; it was cooked up it was about as public as a secret treaty. 
in the kettle of said commentator's ac­This "column hears that the SCHOLASTIC tive brain. The public swallows tales tried to cover it, got the coldest response like this, hook, line, and sinker., Appar­since Hess's attempt to end the war five ently the word of a so-called authority or six years ago. is able to get the wildest stories general • 
credence. We may be asked next to be­ASK AND YOU SHALL RECEIVE . . . lieve that Harry T.'s first haberdashery One Will Connolly, a bright young, customer (buying a miner's cap) was columnist for the San Francisco Chron­none other than the great John L. (Continued on Page 12) 
M 

California Sportswear 
Made in Americans Foremost Sportswear Center 
Wool . . . Rayons . . . Gabardines All-Purpose Shirts 
Here are regular shirts when worn with a tie . . . and a sport shirt when worn open . . . You'll find these famous California names: Berton of California, Mai-Art, Cali-Wear, Barry of Hollywood, Cisco Casuals, Bardon of California, California Playboy and many others. 
|5. to $20 
7^ 0^ u» 
m THE COMIER.... MKMIftAN « mSMNSIW 
VICTORIA LUNCH 
extends their 
Congrafulaflons 
to 
THE 1946 TEAM 
VICTORIA.. 
That means a 
GOOD PLACE TO EAT 
VISIT 
George Pefe Gusf 
115 W . Lasalle 
k^t^ lATEST TUNES 
Rickety Rickshaw Man 
Intermission Riss Shanty In Old Shanty Town St. Louis Blues 
Star Dust 
Copp's Music Shop 
122-24 E. Wayne St. 
Est. 1900 
Glasses CORREaLY FIHED 
J. BURKE 
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery 
OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS 
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment 

icle, deprecates N.D.'s football issue of the S-CHOLASTic in the Nov. 15 issue of that newspaper. He suggests that the Football issue, "a textual record of South Bend's pomp, including a record of the dullest scoreless tie of this or any other century, with Army . . . should make a fine Christmas gift for distant acquaint­ances you wouldn't remember anyhow .. . as between a Christmas necktie and the Notre Dame catalogue, the latter is pre­ferred by males of junior' age and junior mind . .." Taking brother C. at his word, 
the SCHOLASTIC has forwarded him a 
copy with its compliments . . . 
WHOM HAVE WE HERE? Primo Camera is at it again, this time as a wrestler. Apparently he didn't have enough of American managers and pro­moters the first time he left his mines­trone and came over. That time he was bilked out of his eye teeth by a shady New Yorker who left the tall man flatter than an Indiana gold security. He seems never to learn that the whole American fight game needs fumigation. 
FREE ENTERPRISE DEPARTMENT . . . After j'ears and years of having the sporting field almost to itself, the smug and sharp St. Louis Spo7-ting Neivs has a whole brood of new competitors. The Sportmg Netus recently added other sports besides baseball, has little to fear from the inroads of seasonal mags like the football Quarterback. But the new slick monthly. Sports, put out bj'- Faw­cett, who fostered True, serves a need. Most of the other new sports sheets re­semble racing forms, will probably end in the oblivion tlTej^ deserve. The Sport­ing Neivs is beyond anything smacking of pulpmags; this column drinks to its long life. 
AND OF THE FOOTBALL CIVIL WAR . . . 
The All-America Conference is ill of attendance figures. At least three teams, Miami, Buffalo, and Chicago, are about ready to go home to father Arch Ward who hatched them. The only All-America team winning consistent fan favor is the Cleveland Browns -with an average home attendance of 57,000. One of these teams might move to Detroit, where the toothless Lions have angered fandom. Meanwhile the National League is filling the stadium every week. 
POUR IT ON . . . Michigan's 58-6 rout of OSU showed a complete lack of restraint on the part of the Wolverines. After they had al­(Continued on Page 63) 
M OOTfif Dfll SCHOLASTIC 
Disce Q^uasi Semper Viclunis Vive Quasi Cras A'/ori/iiriis 
Founded 1867 
IllllllUllllllllllliilllllltltliiiilliiittiifiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
VOL. 88, NO. 10 DEC. G. 1946 
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. S, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191S. 
John Defctnt, Editor 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Ted Weber H. Smith Keel 
iiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiii«iiiii>iiii"iiiiiitiii>i(iiiii*iiitiiiiii» 
Jcnnes Clemens  -News Editor  
Frccnk Keenan _  .Associate News Editor  
Joe Cheney  Sports Editor  
Joe Wilcox  Feature Editor  

Frank Cacciapaglia Photographic Editor 
REWRITE Bob Stock -Ed Snyder Joe Doyle 
Cover, showing Johnny Lujack; drawn by Don Birren. 
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C. 
Faculty Advisor Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf Circulation 
M. E. Varga Advertising 
„„ .••••••••••niiiniiuiiniii •""•• iiiuiiiiiiunm 
Member of Catliolic School Press Association, Associated CoUeglate Press. Hepresented for national advertising by National Advertlslngr Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Address all corres­pondence to: Publications Office, Administra­tion Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
BPRmPM* 

i5EK5««»;.,,^„,.^ .,,.: • niWI««p«aaa*aBMnHHiw«naipnMM>apaHNp;^^ 
UM^lJJLm^mOLJMkl >--.!', 
;#<^<^HMtaaaH|MIMp 
i9QiiMnnnpsiBP"*v"*iif*fapiinMiP^ 
4t 
wmmmmi^^^^^^mfm/i/LimJI. 

SHH 5 S #; 
r--' -— * ^ ..•«v.„..^^ 1>A> 
•i><Mr: 

^SS" 
gaaaggw j 
f^^^^^i^Sj ^^!».>.«^O^Ail>^^sg5^»ja-!iiJgl 
^^if^^lR' -*-^«!CK5^i«;iJlNt • «i«i5^itf^ 

A T12IEIJTC 
The SCHOLASTIC dedicates this issue to the 1946 Notre Dame team, which in our book is the top col­legiate team in the country. In nine games against Western Conference opponents and teams from every section of the country, it proved its right to the National Title. 
Well done, Fighting Irish. 
13 

Irish Defeat lUini in Opener, 26-6 
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR 
CHAMPAIGN, 111., Sept. 28.—Indian-summer's bright and torrid sun beat down on a i-ecord crowd of 75,119 frenzied football fans at Champaign as the \asiting Irish from Notre Dame wallopped the mighty Illini 26 to 6. Marking the cur­tain raiser to the 1946 season and the return of Frank Leahy as head coach, the contest saw the Fighting Irish, stjTnied at first, overcome a' powerful enemy line, throttle a flashy enemy backfield, and pull away to a comfortable three-touchdown margin. 
Tabbed by pre-season experts as the number two team in the nation, Illinois, loaded wth such stars as Buddy Young, Julie Rykovich, Perry Moss and Alex Agase, shoved the South Benders all over the field during the first quarter, and looked like they were on their way to avenging the heartbreaking losses of '44 and '45. But their colors soon faded and the tide of battle turned. Hurled back dee]) into their own territory by a beautiful Illini punt, Leahy's lads rose to meet the occasion. Jimmy Mello, piston-legged full­back, started things rolling by charging from the three to the twelve, then Ashbaugh to the fifteen. Then it happened, the play of the day. Iceberg-cool quarterback Johnny Lujack looped a low lateral out to halfback Emil Sitko, after faking to Mello, and Red Sitko, the Strawberry Eoan, was off to the races. Around the Illini right end, picking his way through the enemy secondary, dodging tacklers, cutting in, then out for the sidelines, and all the way down the field, 83 yards, till he was hauled down from behind by Julie Ey­ko\ich on the Illinois 3 yard line. A couple of plays later Bob Livingstone, jackrabbitt Irish left-half, dove over for the score, and the Ramblers were out ahead 6 to 0. 
Two minutes before the first half ended the visitors 
struck again. With fourth do^vn and three to go on their own 45 yard line, and the clock ticking away precious sec­onds, Lujack fooled the pass-suspecting defenders and sent Mello around end for a 30 yard gain to the Illini 25. Sitko " picked up 11 more and then Jolting Jimmy Mello, who av­eraged 7.6 yards per try, hiked around right end for the tally. Little Freddie Earley booted the conversion and half-time 
.saw the Blue and Gold in front by 13 points. 
No sooner had the third period got underway than the Notre Damei-s were down there knocking again. Mike Swis­towicz, freshman right half, made a miraculous catch of one of Lujack's passes for a 42 yard gain, only to fumble on the one yard line. After the Illini kicked out of that one they folded before another Irish drive that came as far as the 14 yard marker before it fizzled with a wide field-goal attempt by Earley. 
In the final quarter Gasper Urban, reserve Irish tackle, jolted the Illini's dusky Paul Patterson and Czarobski w^as on the fumbled ball like a hawk on a baby chick. Ashbaugh took Lujack's flip on the 8, Panelli banged his way to the 4, and Terry Brennan tore over left tackle for the tally. Earley converted; ND 20, Illinois 0. 
But the misery wasn't over for the highly-touted home team that hot afternoon. Joe Signaigo batted the ball out of the flustered hands of enemy quarterback Perry Moss, and pin-up boy Will Russell, Rambler tackle, was on it in a hurry. 
Tripucka's pass to Swistowicz was slapped into the air by an enemy defender, but Mike was there when it came down. Corny Clatt, reserve Irish fullback proceeded to bull his way to paydirt. Barley's try for point was blocked, and the score stayed at 26 to 0. 
In the ebbing minutes of the game, vdth lengthening shadows creeping up the last inches of Memorial Stadium, the Illini coeds got their chance to squeal. Bill Heiss, Orange and Blue end, got behind the reserve Irish backs to take in a lofty heave from Rykovich that netted 63 yards and 6 points, thus averting a shutout. 
Most impressive in the Irish parade of stars was Red Sitko, a chunky, bullnecked halfback, who averaged 14.4 yards per try, and outshone the brightest luminaries in the Illini backfield. Johnny Lujack's cool quarterbacking and Jim Mello's line-busting highlighted the Leahy offensive. Up front it was George Connor, George Strohmeyer, and Bill Fischer who waylaid the Illini forwards and closed the door when the enemy ballcarriers tried to come through. Czarobski, Martin, Zilly and Wendell, as well as Rovai, looked like they meant business all the way. 
The Illini's much publicized strength failed to materialize. Buddy Young, fastest man in football pants, was held to 40 yards in 11 tries, and was rocked severely by Connor, Stroh­meyer, Czarobski and Martin on many occasions. Lujack, only man between the fleet Buddy and the Irish goal on several occasions, smacked him down decisively. 
Perry Moss, Illini quarter and aerial bomber, was rushed off his feet by the Irish foi-wards, and probably wished they'd sent him back to Tulsa. 
The Illini line, loaded with such name stars as Kasap, Agase, Denskunas and Baumann, was no match for Irish fight. 
EmU "Red" Sitko 
Drawn by Don Blrren 
Pitt 33-0 Victim in Home Opener 
By MEL GODDARD 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Oct. 5.—A surprisingly strong Pittsburgh defense held the powerful Irish scoreless for the first period before 50,368 fans in the Notre Dame 
Stadium, only to be routed 33 to 0. Coach Leahy's squad was obviously suffering a letdown in spirit after their victory over Illinois last Saturday. The stubborn Panther line made them look quite unlike potential. National Champions except on those infrequent occasions when the boys forgot the heat and got down to the business of scoring touchdowns. 
One of those moments resulted in the first Irish score early in the second quarter with Johnny Lujack passing first to Jack Zilly for 12 yards, then to Bob Livingstone for 24 and a touchdown. Creevy's conversion attempt was wide. George Strohmeyer intercepted a Pitt pass to start the march for the second TD, which was scored by Terry Brennan after two passes by Lujack had put the ball on Pitt's 7. Creevy again failed to add the extra point. The Irish passing attack bogged down as the half ended with the score: ND 12; Pitt 0. 
St)on after the second half got under way, a Panther fumble, recovered by Jim Martin, was quickly turned into a marker by Notre Dame, Lujack tossing one to fullback Jim Mello. Fred Earley split the uprights to make the score­board read Notre Dame 19; Pitt 0. More Lujack passes soon put the ball on the Panther 8, and Mello cai-ried it over from there without a Pitt hand touching him. Earley again kicked the point to make the total 26 for the Irish. 
In the fourth quarter, limited by orders to simple run­ning plays, only eight plays were required to send Brennan over for the final touchdown of the afternoon. Earley made good on the placement try to end the scoring. The remain­ing minutes of the game were featured by the return of right halfback Floyd Simmons, who had been on the injured list. He showed both speed and power in the shoi-t time he was in the game, and should help fill the gap caused by Red Sitko's injury. Bill Smith and John Agnone both looked good in the ball toting department, but the highlight of the final period was the great kick by quarterback Frank Tripucka, which bounced out of bounds on the Pitt one. The boot traveled about 70 yards through the air. 
Pittsburgh was definitely handicapped by injuries and more of their players were hurt during the game. In spite of all this, there were times when they made the powerful Irish look bad. Ward, Skladany, DePasqua, Cecconi and Bar­kouskie did a lot to slow down the Notre Dame running attack. 
George "Beans" Connor .and Moose Fischer were again outstanding in the Ii'ish line with Czarobski, Rovai, Stroh­meyer, Mai-tin and Zilly giving Lujack excellent protection 
APOk/eRATWE p/voTPoar 
FORWlSyEfi^ NOTSEDAME 
ELEVEN 
for passing. The second team line led by Johnny Mastrangelo also worked well in front of Ratterman and Lujack. 
Notre Dame piled up a lot of yardage, much of it after Pitt had been •worn down by the heat and the Irish reserves, to dominate the game in every depart­ment. The Irish racked up 19 first downs to 4 for Pitt, and gained 46Si yards to 42 for the Panthers. 
Mike Swistowicz (55) picks up seven ycnrds on a reverse late in the lirst 
half of the Pitt game. Jim Mello is 
behind Swistowicz and No. 32 is Johnny. Lujock. 

Notre Dame Crushes Purdue, 49-6 
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Oct. 12.—Neither cold Avinds nor drizzling rains Avere able to dampen the crisp mettle of our Irish warriors, and Notre Dame made it three in a row, celebrating Columbus Day by smacking down Purdue, 49 to 6. 
No matter how deep Frank Leahy dipped into his barrel of talent, he came up with a winner, and the entire squad looked much more impressive than it did last week. Thrown back in the first few minutes of play by a keyed-up Boiler­maker line, the Ramblers finally found^ themselves, but not until Bob Livingstone had to be helped from the field. 
Enraged, the Irish struck. Jim Mello took the ball on his own 34 and ripped through the Black and Gold for 33 yards, being hauled down from behind. Johnny Panelli lugged it for 18, then 10 more. From one yard out, Mello perforated the Boilermaker line and the score read 6 to 0. Freddie Earley, sans shoulder pads and looking like a Lilliputian among tne gridiron Gullivers, trotted in to make the first of his 7 straight points-aftei'-touchdown. 
Urban pounced on a Purdue fumble in the second period, but ND's scoilngv-rush fizzled on the 9 Avhen Swistowicz fumbled and the visitors breathed easier. But not for long. 
Terry Brennan, the winged terror from Milwaukee, dia some fancy stepping for 27 yards, then again for. 9, and again for 6. Bull-shouldered Corny Clatt rammed it over from the 2-yard marker, and Farley's goal made it 14-0. 
Before the second period ended Jerry Cowhig broke loose on a 47-yard runback of an enemy punt, bowling the Boiler­maker tacklers over, and packing it to the Purdue 33-yard line. After Swito%vicz picked up 5, Johnny Lujack stepped back and hit Terry Brennan in the end zone for the tally. Once again Mr. Earley did his stuff. 
No sooner had the second half started than Jungle Jim Martin, who had been bear-crushing opposing backs aU day, gobbled up a Purdue fumble on the 18-yard marker. John Panelli then took the ball on a reverse from Lujack, swung wide around his own left end,, cut back near the sidelines, and with head down and knees high, zoomed by the defend­ing safety man to score standing up, much to the glee of tne idolizing St. Mary's girls who packed the stands just back of the goalline. Farley's kick was good. 
While the Irish backs were running through the injury-riddled Purdue boys, the ND line was showing up in excel­lent fashion. Moose Fischer jolted the Purdue defenders with gusto, until a banged-up nose saw him i-etired for the day, George Strohmeyer, unmindful that his mother was watching him fi-om the stands, was making tackles all over the field. McBride and Mastrangelo proved practically unmov­able in their positions, and Zilly, Hart, Wendell, Skogluna far outclassed anybody the visitors could offer. 
Still in the third quarter, ND started to roll again, this time 70 yards to touchdown town. Johnny Panelli's 42-yard gallop set the tally up, and Zilly speared Lujack's pass on his finger tips in the end zone for the score. Farley's kick was good and the scoreboard read 35-0 as the final stanza began. 
But all of a sudden Purdue came alive, and much to the chagrin of the Irish subs who manned oui- defense, the Boii­ennaker quarterback, Galvin, sprinted 52 yards to score, barely outdistancing George Tobin and John Fallon, both hot in pursuit. The try-for-point failed, but Purdue's cheerieaa­ers didn't care; they were drunk -with joy. 
Bitten by the touchdown bug, Purdue now tried to take to the air, bent upon catching up at this late hour. But Bob Skoglund swiped the ball as it left the Purdue passer's hand, and scored once more for the Irish. That man Earley did if again. 
With less than three minutes to go Leahy reached way down in his duffle-bag and produced an aggregation of un­publicized subs, many of whom promise to be headline makers once the breaks begin to fall their way. Floyd Simmons sparked the drive, running through, over, and around the Aisitors from Lafayette, until the ball reached the 25. Then another batch of reserves took over, and Billy Gompers threaded his way 20 yards for the final touchdo%vn. Earley booted his seventh straight. 
In this 49-6 rout against mediocre competition, the piay took on the aspects of a fashion parade of football talent, one star following another onto the stage for his little part. Cow­hig, Panelli, Simmons and Brennan looked best for the hometeam, along with Connor, Mastrangelo and Fischer. Ed Ehlers and John Galvin were outstanding for the Boiler­makers, but most of the visitors' talents were limited to the neat strutting of the golden-clad dram majorettes. 
JIM MELLO 
Drawn by Don Birren 

Irish Smash Hawkeye Jinx, 41-6 
By JOE CHENEY 
IOWA CITY, lA., Oct. 26—A crowd of 52,311 saw the Notre Dame football machine, led by the brilliant quarter­backing of Johnny Lnjack, shackle the 25-year jinx and the Iowa football team, 41 to 6, this afternoon. 
The Green Shirts from Notre Dame struck for a touch­down in the first three minutes of play when Lujack let go a beautiful 65-yard touchdown pass to Terry Brennan. Fred Earley booted the extra point and the first quarter ended, 7 to 0, in favor of the Irish. 
Iowa started to march toward the Notre Dame goal but Dick Hoerner, the Iowa fullback, fumbled and Pete Ash­baugh recovered for the Irish on his own eight. Lujack punted the Irish out of danger. Notre Dame took over on its oAvn 38-yard line after the Iowa team had lost the ball on downs. Jerry Cowhig tore off 8 yards and Leon Hart, 18­year-old freshman end, made a one-handed catch of Lujack's long pass and Avas tackled on the Iowa 11-yard line. Panelli and Swistowicz cari-ied the ball to the 1-yard line where Panelli dove over for the score. Barley's kick was blocked. 
After the Hawkeyes had punted over the Notre Dame goal line, the Irish took over on their own 20. Two passes, Lujack to Hart and Lujack to Swistowicz, brought the Irish up to their OAvn 47-yard line. Lujack then fumbled but quick­ly picked it up and plowed through the left side of his line and raced 47 yards for another toiichdown. Barley's kick was good, making it 20 to 0 with three minutes of the secona period left to play. 
Iowa received the ball on its 20-yard line and brought it back to midfield. On the first play, Tunnell threw a long paso intended for Dittmer which went 10 feet over his head. Ditt­mer made a gallant try for the ball as he dived for it. The officials mled that there had been interference on the play by Ashbaugh and awarded the ball to the Hawkeyes on the Irish 10-yard line. Four plays later Hoerner went around end for the score. Sullivan's kick was wide and the half ended 20 to 6 in favor of Notre Dame. 
.Iowa punted to Brennan who brought the ball back to i7iidfield. Lujack called on McGee, Sitko, and Mello to run the ball deep in Iowa territory. Ked Sitko finally drove over from the 3-yard line. "Number 1" raced out on the field and made it 27 to 6. 
Pete Ashbaugh started Notre Dame on its fifth touchdown as the fourth period opened when he intercepted one of Tun­nel's passes on his oAvn 15 and ran it back to Iowa's 47-yard line. Lujack set itp the touchdown with two bullet passes to Hart which carried the ball to the Iowa 13-yard line. Sitko crashed the line on three successive plays and finally wound vip scoring another Irish touchdown. Fred Earley booted the extra point. Score: 34 to 6. 
Coach Leahy tossed his reserves on the field with instruc­tions to use only straight plays but the thoroughly discour­aged Iowa team was unable to keep the third stringers away from their door. Bill Gompers shook himself loose on a 25­
yard sprint around his own left end and scored Notre Dame's last touchdown. The eictra point was good as Earley booted it straight through the uprights. Final score: Notre Dame 41, Iowa 6. 
Iowa was overrated according to the score and the play­ers. Notre Dame was looking for a more nigged game than, the Hawkeyes gave them. Most of the players cited the Iowa-Michigan score, 14 to 7 in favor of Michigan, as the basis for their claim that the lowans were going to be tough. Ked Sitko was Notre Dame's work-horse, carrying the ball 13 times for 59 yards, while Coy McGee, a sophomore from Longview, Texas, made his debut in the Notre Dame back­
field. He showed great speed and drive for his 160 pounds. 
Notre Dame wound up with 16 first downs to 12 for Iowa. 
The Irish rolled up a total of 256 yards on the ground and 136 in the air for 392 yards while Iowa came up with a grand total of 170 yards, 80 of which came through pass­ing. The jinx had been broken. 
George Connor 
Johnny Lujack 
Drawn by Don Birrcn 

65,000 See Irish Sink Navy, 28-0 
By JOE CHENEV 
BALTIMORE, MD., Nov. 2.—The Notre Dame football team left Washington, D. C, this morning with one objective in mind, to beat Navy without showing the fans anj^thing but straight football. A high spirited Navy team had other plans . for the day until Jeriy Cowhig broke through after the clock had ticked off 11 minutes of the first period and scored on a 31-yard jaunt around his own left end. Fred Eai-ley kicked 
the extra point. 

In overpowering the ^Middies, the Irish used a ground attack so powerful that Navy had no chance of getting its second breath. In sweeping to its fifth straight win of the season, Notre Dame racked up 27 first downs to 8 for Navy. In total yardage, Notre Dame gained 444 yards, Navy 139. The Irish attempted 16 passes, completing 8 good for 115 yards, while the Middies attempted 18, completing only 5 which were good for 50 yards. 
Notre Dame's second and third teams looked better than the first team. The sub backs, aided by substitute linemen, tore through Navy's forward wall time and again. Jerry Cowhig's running was far superior to any he had done so far this season. Floyd Simmons, who had been hampered vnth injuries all year, tore the bandages off and ripped through for two scores in the second period. The Irish were leading 21 to 0 as they headed for the shower room at half time. 
Na\'y came^ back for the second half with a determined idea of stopping the high-stepping Notre Darners. It wasn't until 26 minutes of the second half had passed that Coach Leahy sent in Ernie Zalejski and Bill Gompers. They pui some punch into the Irish attack. Frank Tripucka, who was ill at quarterback, engineered six successful plays which were good for another score, Gompers carrying it over from the 2-yard line. 
It was this display of power by an inferior team against the vaunted Irish line which caused some experts to predict Army will send Davis, Blanchard, and Fuson through similar quick openings off the T for winning points next Saturday in New York. 
-r:f^:s£»^^3B;iix­

6ERRY COMVHIG (Drawn by Don Birren) 
Fred Ecaley boots his fourth point aiter touchdown The Novy goat poses prettily between two Annapolis to make the final score read 28-0. Academy cheerleaders in Baltimore Stadium. 
Notre Dame, Army Battle to 0-0 Tie 
By lOE CHENEY 
YANKEE STADIUM, NEW YOEK, Nov. ».—The foot­ball game of the year between the nation's two top-ranking elevens ended in a 0 to 0 tie as 74,000 onlookers waited lor cither team to explode in Yankee Stadium this afternoon. 
For the first time in three seasons of overpowering suc­cess against 25 opponents, Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis were stopped by the charging Notre Dame line. Ai-my, the gridiron giant, remained undefeated but the Fighting Irish had checked its winning streak and Coach Frank Leahy's record of never having an Army team ci'oss his goal line was wrapped up for another year. 
The predictions that Notre Dame would flood the field with substitutes and beat Army through its depth of material were given in vain. Notre Dame brought 36 players on the ti'ip to New York but only 22 of them saw action. Blanchard, Davis, and Tucker were caught behind their line of scrim­mage more often in this game than they had ever been in the last three years. Blanchard made a run of 21 yards but Davis never got too far past the line of scrimmage. 
Terry Brennan, playing a terrific game again for the Irish, made the longest Notre Dame gain when he broke through tackle for 21 yards. Brennan's defensive play was also outstanding. Lujack's pass to Skoglund for 25 yards and Davis' pass to Blanchard for 23 yards were the only two passes of the game which carried much distance. 
Notre Dame fans got their thrill of the aftei"noon watch­ing the Irish march 85 yards down the field only to be held by a determined Army line three yards short of the Army goal line. This was the closest either team got to pay dirt. 
This Notre Dame-Anny game was a fiercely fought defen­sive struggle betwen two teams that wouldn't be beaten. The thrill that goes with an offensive game could not be found in Yankee Stadium today but the croAvd was on edge through­out the struggle waiting in vain for one team or the other to get the break that it needed to score. That break never came. 
Looking over the statistics, Notre Dame made ten first downs to Army's nine. In yards gained rushing and running back punts Army gained 224, Notre Dame 219. On foi"ward passes each team gained 52 yards and the yardage on punts was the same, 40. Army tried 16 passes, completed 4; Notre Dame tossed 17 and completed 5. The whole Notre Dame team sparkled on defense but Army stopped each one of its drives. 
The dressing room scenes after the game were quiet. Both teams had wanted to win this one, particularly Notre Dame after being humiliated 59-0 and 48-0 by this same team the past two years. Coach Red Blaik looking downcast said, "There is no jubilation in this dressing room. It was a vigorously-fought, terrific defensive game. Both teams played beautifully on the defense and that affected both team's at­tacks." There were no smiles coming from the faces of the Army players either. 
Across the way in the Notre Dame dressing room, the Yankees' quarters, the players were undressing as Coach Frank Leahy walked around the room telling each and every one of them what a fine game they had played. When the reporters came into the room, Leahy graciously said, "I sup­pose I should be elated over the tie. After all, we didn't lose, but I'm not. You know, of course, that I had expected to lose this game, but five minutes after the game had started, after we had stopped Ai-my in the fii-st period, I had a feeling that we might win." Agi-eeing with Blaik that the game was over­shadowed by the brilliant defensive work of both teams, Leahy paid tribute to a fine Anny team. Army's head coach had tossed bouquets to Notre Dame's team only five minutes before. 
Coach Leahy was asked why the Irish hadn't used more trick plays in today's game. "We did try a couple of new things, like a screen pass and a double reverse, which we didn't use before this season," was his reply. He disagreea with Coach Blaik's statement that the cadets "owned the second half." 
So the resumption of the i-ivali-y between Earl Blaik and Frank Leahy, back from two years' seiwice in the Navy, ended on the same low note that it began in 1941. That year, too, when Leahy left Boston College to coach Notre Dame and Blaik was called to West Point from Dai-tmouth by Genei-al Robert Eichelbei'ger to revive Ai-my's sunken for­tunes on the gi-idiron, their teams played to a scoreless dead­lock. 
Irish Rout Northwestern, 27-0 
By MEL GODDARD 
NOTEE DAME STADIUM, Nov. 16—A capacity crowd of 56,000 rain-soaked spectators saw a stubborn Northwest­ern team collapse in the final quarter before strong Irish reserve power as Notre Dame scored its sixth victory in seven games, 27 to 0. 
Notre Dame needed only eight plays to cover 63 yards for a touchdown the first time the ball was in its possession, and the game had the appearance of a runaway. The Irish were able to pile up yardage at vn.\\ until they were near the Wild­cat goal, where their attack became ineffective. They were so hapless when in sight of scoring territory that it took them 43 minutes and 40 seconds to score the second touch­down after Sitko had plunged across for the first one. 
When the number two TD was marked up, George Ratter-man was directing the attack. He led the team in scoring marches of 43 and 59 yards in less than 11 minutes of the final period. The signal calling was turned over to Frank Tripucka, who engineered another score in less than three more minutes. The final drive was for 38 yards and was a result of a Northwestern fumble. 
Northwestern actually outplayed Notre Dame after the Irish had marked up their first score in quick fashion. Notre Dame was able to penetrate Wildcat territory only once in the remainder of the half and that time they were stopped on the Northwestern 40. Northwestern drove into Irish terri­tory four times in the first half only to be stopped. Twice, pass intercaptions halted the Wildcats. 
At the start of the third quarter, Notre Dame moved from its own one-yard line to the Northwestern 10 where they were thrown for a 13-yard loss. Fred Earley was sent in to try a field goal which missed, and Northwestern moved the ball out of danger. Soon after that the reserves came in and took complete charge of the game. 
The first Irish touchdown came as the result of some out­standing running by Emil Sitko, Bob Livingstone and Jim Mello. Sitko contributing a run of 34 yards and a plunge of one foot which was good for six points. Fred Earley kicked the first of his three extra points. 
The next score was made by Pep Panelli in the foui-th quarter after he, Cowhig, and Gompers had carried the ball to the Northwestern two. Earley missed the kick. McGee, Gompers and Fanelli drove to the Wildcat one in the next scoi'ing drive with Panelli again crossing the goal line. 
Emil Slovak circled left end for 18 yards and the final touchdown as the game neared its end. More Irish subs came off the Irish bench and had the ball on the Northwestern 27-yard line as the game ended. 
The Notx'e Dame passing attack turned out to be the sad­dest feature of the ball game with Lujack completing only one of seven and that for a loss of five yards. Ratterman failed to connect on the only one he tried. 
On the ground the story was quite different. Notre Dame made 27 first downs to 4 for Northwestern, and gained 423 yards to 73 for the Wildcats. Northwestern got 52 of their yards on the ground and completed two out of 10 passes for 21 yards. The Irish intercepted three passes and had one caught by the Wildcats. 
There were several outstanding ball carriers on the field for Notre Dame with Emil Sitko and Jim Mello back in their 
best form.  Gerry Cowhig and Pep  Panelli  
were  up  to  their  usual  standards,  Avhile  
Bill Gompers, played  one of his best games  
,  '.  of  the  season.  In the line George  Connor  
•  '  .  and  John  Mastrangelo  were  again  far  
,.  above  average  as  was  Jim  Martin  until  
he suffered  a  knee injury  and  had  to  be  
carried off the field.  

Sitko sets up first touchdown against North­western as he carries ball to one-foot line in first quarter. On the next play he went over for the score to put Notre Dame ahead, 6-0. 
•^*^ 

N. D. Smothers Green Wave, 41-0 
By JOE CHENEY 
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 23.—Notre Dame's football ma­chine invaded the deep south this afternoon and routed the Green Wave of Tulane, 41 to 0, before 68,000 frenzied foot­ball fans. 
Johnny Lujack, quarterbacking the Irish attack, never looked better than he did today as he completed his first six passes which set up Notre Dame's drives to touchdown town. The Irish marched 91 yards to their first score as Lujack mixed his plays superbly. His two passes to Brennan gave Notre Dame first down on Tulane's 20-yard line. Jim Mello carried it over for a touchdown on four successive line plays. 
After Tulane punted from its own 40, the Irish/Jsrez'e again on the march and seven plays later Lujack hit Brennan with a long aerial on the Tulane 3-yard line where "the Irish work-horse" lugged it over for a score. Fred Earley's kick was good and the first period ended 13 to 0 in favor of Notre Dame. 
The second team took over in the second period and for the first time this season were slow in getting started. Bill Gompers raced 35 yards for a touchdown but the play Avas called back and Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards for hold­ing. Tulane then got a break when Kotteman recovered Cowhig's fumble on the Notre Dame 36-yard line. Tulane's attack was mild and Nutt kicked out of bounds on the Irish 
9. Livingstone, Panelli, and Gompers teamed up on ininning plays and brought the ball all the way to the Tulane 21-yard line. Gompers twisted through to the Tulane 4, biit Notre Dame was penalized for backfield in motion. Ernie Zalejski, the highly-touted freshman who has been on the bench ivith bad legs, broke into the clear and galloped 24 yards for the third Irish score. Fred Earley booted the extra point. 
Less than five minutes later, Ernie scored his second touchdown of the afternoon. No­tre Dame took possession of the ball on Tulane's 49-yard line and four plays later Zalejski plunged through right tackle for the score. By this time the crowd had taken a liking to Fred Earley, who never wears any shoulder pads and looks like a sixteen­year-old kid when he trots out onto the field to boot the extra points. Fred again matched the numeral on the back of his green jersey by splicing the uprights to give the Irish a 27 to 0 lead at half time. 
Lujack's passing again brought about an­other Notre Dame marker. The Irish this time marched 81 yards using both air and ground attacks with a little bit of every­thing tossed into the drive. Gompers picked up 23 yards on the old Statue of Liberty play and the Irish were again rolling. Lu­jack completed a pass to Limont who im­mediately lateraled to Zalejski, Ernie was forced out of bounds but not until he had picked up another 11 yards. Two more Lu­jack passes brought the ball to Tulane's front door which the hard driving Notre through. Earley's kick was good and the third quarter ended 34-0. 
Mike Swistowicz ran wild in the final quarter. He picked up long and short gains along with Ernie Zalejski and Coy McGee. McGee ended the drive with a five-yard jaunt off his right tackle and scored his first Notre Dame touchdown. Fred Earley's attempt for the extra point was good, giving him a total of 29 points scored for the Fighting Irish this year out of 34 attempts. Tulane's bid for a score fizzled as the game ended Avith the Irish ahead 41 to 0. 
The victory proved costly to Notre Dame because it lost the services of Emil Sitko, leading Irish ground gainer of the season, and Ernie Zalejski, leading ground gainer of this game, for the rest of the season. Sitko was injured as he was tackled early in the first period. Bill Gompers proved a good substitute for the injured halfback. Zalejski tore a cartilage in his knee after gaining ten yards in the middle of the f oui-th period. No one was near him and it appeared that he was going 43 yards for another score. But his knee snapped and he fell to the ground. It is probable that the injury wiU keep him on the shelf during spring pz-actice. 
Today's statistics give Notre Dame 25 first downs to Tulane's 6. The Irish rolled up 428 yards on the gi-ound while the Green Wave netted 22. Notre Dame gained 124 net yards through the air while Tulane gained 79. Notre Dame completed 9 out of 13 fonvard passes; Tulane completed 11 out of 22. In the penalty parade the Irish lost 55 yards while the Tulane players managed to get through the afternoon without a single infraction of rules. 
Dame line s\\Ting open and Mello scooted Ernie Zaleisld carries for a touchdown, as the score mounts against Tulane. 
Notre Dame Swamps Trojans, 26-6 
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, Nov. 30.—Basking in Au­tumn's sunny farewell-weather, 56,000 football fans filled Memorial Stadium on the last Saturday of November to see Notre Dame wind up its 1946 season by trouncing the Tro­jans of the University of Southern California 26-6, to remain unbeaten and stake claim for the mythical National Cham­pionship. 
Behind the greatest collection of fieixe-charging linemen in the history of the school, the Fighting Irish, led by Coy McGee, Floyd Simmons and George Rattei-man, crushed the ci-imson-clad men of Troy for their first unbeaten season in five years, the second national chamiDionship in three years, and their fifth all-victorious tour in 22 seasons. 
While Head Coach Frank Leahy was confined to his home by a nasty case of the flu and complications, his lads rolled on, ably directed by cigar-chewing Ed Ki-ause, line coach, and foiTOerly AU-American on both the gridiron and basket­ball floor for the Irish. 
The way things started out it looked as if the ponderous Trojans, only a week before nosed out by the breaks in their slushy battle mth the undefeated Bruins of UCLA, might have the stuff to stop Notre Dame, holding them to a score­less first quarter and scaring the homecoming crowd A\nth some beautiful passing and punting. 
But not for long did the invading Californians threaten. At the start of the second period a jack-rabbit halfback from Long\aew, Texas, named Coy McGee. grabbed the ball and the spotlight as well. Hurdling, sprinting, dodging and twisting, this leggy little Texan, whose picture didn't even appear in the program, pirouetted his way through the Trojan defend­ers all the way to the SC 17 yard line. But the Irish fumbled the next one, and Lillywhite, Southern Cal's quarterback, got them out of the hole by sending a superb punt soaring high over the Notre Dame safety man's head, 83 yards in all, over the goal. 
Then McGee did it again. Taking a swift shovel-lateral from quarterback George Ratterman, the Texas Terror tore around his own right end, pranced past tacklers, picked up some devastating downfield blocking, pulled away from the last Trojan defenders, and galloped 77 yards for the first 
Irish score. The try for point failed. Fired up, the Irish struck soon again. Simmons and Liv­ingstone pummelled the Trojan line and circled the ends, while Panelli bowled 'em over. Then slick George Ratterman, who piloted the Irish to all four scores, faded back and fired one to lanky Leon Hart, freshman end, who gobbled it up over the goal for another TD. This time Freddie Eai-ley's eye was good. Terrific line play highlighted the first half, with the Irish forwards, led by Mastrangelo, Connor, Fischer, Rovai and Strohmeyer wearing down the heavier enemy line. On sev­eral occasions Lujack led the lads to within scoring position, but fumbling and penalties nullified the gains. Southern Cal roared right back into the ball game once ' the second half got under way. Murphy's passes paved the way, and the ref s decision on one of them gave the apple to the Men of Troy on the Notre Dame one yard line. Naumu, SC's Hawaiian halfback, hammered over on his second try, but the lack failed, so the score remained 13-6. 
Deciding that possibly the Trojans were serious about 
their attempt to get back into the ball game, the Notre Dame 
lads unloaded a series of line plunges that ripped the oppos­
ing wall apart just as the quarter ended. Back into the game 
came the second stringers, and Ratterman engineered the 
machine downifield. Floyd Simmons, tethered all fall by ag­
gravating injuries, opened up and gunned around his left 
flank, wheeling inside secondary defenders, twisting and 
turning 49 yards to the Trojan 11. A few plays later Coy 
McGee scampered across the goal on a beaxitiful hidden ball play. The conversion failed. 
Once more the Blue and Gold surged down the field, only to be thrown back by the vicious defense of the enemy. Oestreich's gorgeous kicking kept the ND wolf away from the Trojan door, but not for long. Petey Ashbaugh, gathering in one of those nifty punts, dashed thirty-five yards to the Californian's 25 before he was spilled. Simmons circled his left end again, pounding past the would-be tacklers, only to be I'un out of bounds inside the fifteen yard line. On the next play, a lulu, Gerry Cowhig, in his first run of the game, swept through a yawning hole for the touchdown. To this day most people don't know just what happened, but it was some sort of an unorthodox prank, pulled out of Leahy's bag of tricks by the master of the hour, George Ratterman, and it completely foxed the Trojans as well as most of the 56,000 fans. Eaiiey's boot Avas right in the nose, and the scoreboard read 26-6. 
The Trojans came back eager, grabbing a pass and threat­ening as the clock ran out, but it Avas too late. The Irish finished the season as they had begun it, with a 26-6 win. 
Besides the terrific running of McGee, a sub half from way back in the ranks, and Floyd Simmons, who may develop into our finest running back, the play of Jim Mello, John Panelli (how this guy hit those Trojan ball carriers!), and the usual fine performances of Strohmeyer, Wendell, Skog­lund, Zilly, et al, the supercharged play of Joe Signaigo and Bill Fischer shone out brilliantly. In fact so explosive were the blocks these two gents threw at the opposition, that, be­sides caving in most of the Trojan line, they wound up nursing injuries of their own, fruits of suicidal downfield blocks thrown to protect a hustling Irish back. The ovation given Signaigo as he was carried from the stadium, and the applause rendered to the mighty Moose Fischer as he shook his groggy head and jogged from the field (with two broken ribs) was significant of the appreciativeness and admiration Irish followers hold not only for these two, but all Notre Dame linemen, whose fierce play has put ND back on top of the heap, and given all men a healthy fear of "The Fighting Irish." 
The Sports Experts Say --­
Before the Season Opene<J 
"The strength of the T formation is down the middle, center, quarterback, and fullback. That's where Notre Dame will have the first edge on Illinois in the game at Champaign Saturday."—Fran­cis J. Powers. Chicago Daily Neivs. 
Illinois Game (After the Game) 
"A new Notre Dame football comet 

soared over the gridiron of Memorial 
Stadium this afternoon and crushed Illi­
nois' championship hopes into dying em­
bers, 26-6. It is a comet which promises 
to grow in brilliance as the season pro­
gresses and eventvially light up the grid­
iron picture with victories over Navy, 
Army, Northwestern, and Southern Cal­
ifornia foi- an undisputed National title." 
—Gene Kessler, Chicago Times. 

Pittsburgh Game 
"Notre Dame struck in every quarter on the ground and in the air to hammer out a 33 to 0 decision over Pittsburg. Quarterback Johnny Lujack was the Irish standout with a cross section of tricks and passes that had Pitt exhausted at the end."—^William Moloney, Chicago 
Herald-American. 
Purdue Game 
"The 1946 Notre Dame football team smashed the Boilermakers of Purdue this afternoon 49 to 6. The Irish may be on their way to another National Championship Title.—Associated Press. 
Iowa Game 
"The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame startled the Iowa fans today by trounc­ing the Hawkeyes 41 to 6. Lujack's passing and Connor's line play were out­standing."—United Press. 
Navy Game 
"For two hours this gray afternoon 65,000 fans yawned and dozed while No­tre Dame demolished Navy, 28 to 0, with dreamy indolence that was only slightly more thrilling than cold boiled potatoes. Although the Irish turned out a horde of muscular and able Irishmen named Czarobski, Signaigo, Kosikowski, Stroh­meyer, Zalejski, and Panelli, their attack did not look up to the task of whipping Army next Saturday."—Red Smith, New York Herald-Tribune. 
Army Game 
"Notre Dame and Army played foot­ball Saturday with, one thought upper­most in the minds of both: neither team must score. Seldom have two clubs waged such a standoff defensive battle. Terry Brennan was the Irish work horse, aver­aging 5 yards per try in 14 trips with the ball."—^John P. Cannichael, Chicago 
Daily Netvs. 
"A team that won't be beat can't be beat. That's the story of yesterday's Army-Notre Dame scoreless battle in Yankee Stadium."—Bill Corum, New York Herald-American. 
Northwestern Game 
"They took the OPA off Notre Dame 
touchdowns today, but Northwestern 
fought hard to continue the ceiling;:iThe 
Irish got four tallies and won 27 to 0." 
—William Moloney, Chicago Herald-
American. 
Tulane Game 
"When asked if he thought Tulane had a chance to upset Notre Dame, Coach Frnka quipped, 'Yes, if they let us use the two team system—two teams at one time.' It is possible that the No­tre Dame team is the greatest in Irish histoi-y. as a defensive unit. It has given up only three touchdowns in eight games, all sco|*ed against the second and third stringei-s, and is the only team in more than two seasons to hold Army scoi-e-less."—Fred Digby, New Oi-leans Item. 
Southern California Game 
"Notre Dame's tremendous football squad won its right to be rated the 1946 National Intercollegiate Champion this aftei'hoon when it wound up its season by defeating Southern California, 26 to 6, for the Irish's first unbeaten season in five years. A sellout crowd of 56,000 roar­ed approval in the Notre Dame Sta­dium."—Jim Costin, The South Bend 
Tribime. 
Ed Burns, Chicago Tribune 
"Great team thoroughly coached. This Notre Dame football team belies the statements made earlier that returning servicemen could not get back into shape again to play good football. The Notre Dame record speaks for itself." 
Al Santoro, Sports Editor, Los Angeles Examiner 
"After watching Notre Dame battle Southern California this afternoon, I can see why Notre Dame followers have been enthused with this year's team. I never saw such perfect line blocking in my life. Yes, sir, you have a terrific team here at Notre Dame." 
Mannie Pineda, Sports Editor, Pasadena Star News 
"Notre Dame has the smartest, smoothest football machine that I have ever seen. It strikes fast and keeps moving." 
Lou Effrat, New York Times 
"One word—GREAT. I wasn't too im­pressed when I saw them against Illi­nois but I loved them against Army. And today, I!d hate to be on the other side of that line. As I said, one word, GREAT." 
Ted Husing, Mutual Broadcasting 
System 
"I've seen better Notre Dame- teams. That second team looked marvelous against Southern Cal today though. Didn't you think so? It's a great team and one we won't forget for a long time." 
Bill Stern, National Broadcasting 
Company 
"Notre Dame has another fine team but I'm sticking with that '38 team of yours. I never saw the Four Horsemen, but I have been watching the Fighting Irish since 1931. Lujack is still my All-American." 
Christy Walsh, Sr. 
"Notre Dame has a great team. It's amazing how the holes open up for the i-unning backs and the protection the passei's receive is wonderful. Coy McGee reminds me of Wedemeyez- of St. Mary's. He's outstanding and so is this year's team."' 
Francis Wallace, New York Daily 
News, and magazine writer 
"Noti-e Dame has a terrific team. I think that this line is the best that No­tre Dame has ever had. Best all-around backs I've ever seen but no particular combination like the Four Horsemen^ They all perfonned in wonderful style all season." 
Edgar Hayes, Detroit Times 
"Any resemblance of this Notre Dame team and any other college team is purely coincidental. The Irish have proved them­selves the best of this great post war year with spectacular victoi-ies over the Western Conference champions and good teams from every section in addition to being the only club to hold Blanchard and Davis scoreless in three years." 
Jim Costin, Sports Editor, South Bend 
Tribune 
"Great team but I'll take the '43 team if you put the first eleven men on the field. But if I had to choose, between the '43 squad and this 1946 squad. 111 take this one. Boy, this squad has a lot of power. Too bad McGee and Simmons couldn't have played throughout the season." 
Frank W. Leahy 
Director of Athletics and Head Football Coach 
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR 
Historians may well note the year 1946, for it marked the 
return from the wars of a jut-jawed Ii-ishman, Frank Leahy, 
to his helm as Athletic Director and Head Football Coach at 
Notre Dame and the resurgence once more of the School of 
Our Lady to its destined dominant position among the na­
tion's football champions. 

Though manned largely by teen-aged fledglings and serv­
ice rejectees, the grid outfits at ND during Leahy's absent 
years, '44 and '45, fared splendidly, but old grads and honor­
ary alumni across the nation smiled confidently to themselves 
when the news of Leahy's return was made known. No more 
shellackings, from Army now; no more years of drought; 
Irish followers from the parish priest to the all-wise barber, 
from the sneaker-shod school kid on the sandlot to cigar-
chewing, swivel-chair quarterback, knew that Notre Dame 
would soon be back on top of the hoghide heap again. The 
Golden Age in all its grandeur would return to the Golden 
Dome. 

The man entrusted with such confidence from millions of Notre Dame followers was and is big enough foi;.the job. An Irishman from 'way back (his forefathers included such Gaelic appellations as O'Boyle, Kane, Torpey, and hailing from the Ould Sod), he is a graduate of Notre Dame, a tire­less worker, a zealous perfectionist, a driving tutor, a mag­nanimous personality, a good Catholic husband and father, and a gx-eat guy. 
Leahy Follows A Nerve-Wracking Pace 
Drop around Breen-Phillips Hall just about any evening during football season or the Spring session and you'll see the lights burning late in the Athletic Office. In the outer office "Snub" Pollard, a swell character and Guardian Angel to the team's burliest bniisers, pounds away on her type­writer rattling off letters to business firms, old friends of the Coach, inquiring alumni, rustles through stacks of urgent telegrams, diplomatically handles eager and insistent phone calls, and even takes time off from her grave-digging office pace to soothe the clouded mind of a despondent Ail-Ameri­can who fearsomely reads all kinds of insinuations into the local sports pages. Behiiid the door to "Snub's" right, Frank Leahy, sometimes huddled •with his assistants, sometimes alone, pores over diagrams of new plays, sketches revisions of pass defense formation, outlines schematics of proposed changes in the Tee, broods over the latest scout's report on next Saturday's opponent. His nerve-wracking pace and fa­tiguing hours have driven close friends and Administration heads to the realization, that his health may be permanently injured and his career cut short. For this reason school.big­
•wigs have ordered him to take a vacation in Decembei*. 
From Frank Leahy's appearance you'd never guess he played first string tackle on Eockne's 1929 National Cham­pion outfit. No hulking giant, Leahy is of medium build, walks with an easy athletic gait, shoulders back, with a slight leg swing not unlike some of his relaxed pupils, Sim­mons, Vangen or Zilly. He likes plain Sahara brown sport coats, and broad-brimmed hats, but out on the pi-actice field he wears a faded, crush-peaked baseball cap, a baggy sweat­suit, and sometimes sneakers instead of cleated shoes. His hair is reddish-brown, flecked with grey at the sides, and wavy on top; he parts it at the side. His eyes, hooded like Eockne's, and underlined by branching crow's-feet (from squinting into the sun to see who missed that block, and from grinning manifestations of a keen-edged sense of humor), are blue. 
Coach Leahy 

But Fx-ank Leahy's eyes were not always blue. As a young­ster back around Winner, South Dakota, his eyes were often puffed and blackened by neighborhood fisticuffs. Young Frank, known as "Monk" in those days, was a handy man with his dukes, picking up soda-pop money in kid-matches between wrestling bouts at the local amphitheatre, and capi­talizing on the ax-tful instx-uctions of his fathex-, who, too, had done some ring work in his day, in the clashes with village I'oughnecks. 
Frank was box-n in O'Neill, Nebx-aska, August 27, 1908, from whex'e his family moved to Eoundup, Montana, and thence to Winnex-, South Dakota. At the age of 3, ax-med with a pocketful of matches, the toddling Frank proceeded to set fix-e to and burn down the family bax-n, hay, stalls, pigeon i*afters and all. Since then he has been bux-ning down I'ival coaches' playhouses. 
When his senior year in high school rolled ax-ound Fx-ank Leahy attended Centx-al High in Omaha, Nebraska, new home of his family. There he captained the football, baseball, and tx'ack teams, and made many friends, such as the late Tommy Mills, and Snub Pollard, who were to become closely associated with Notre Dame. 
Frank entered ND in September, 1927, learned his col­lege football under freshman coach Tommy Mills, advanced 
"^ 

under the tutelage of the immortal Knute Rockne, where, after trying tackle, center, and tackle again, he moved into the first string tackle assignment at the opening of the 1929 season. That was the year Elder, Twomey, Carideo, Law, Cannon, Vezie, and One-Play Johnny O'Brien were leading ND to the National Championship. The habit of playing with a championship club has been one that Leahy has never been able to shake off. 
In 1930 a twisted cartilage in his right knee kept Leahy benched, out for the season, while teammates Brill, Schwartz, Mullins, O'Connor, Conley, Kosky, Kurth, Hoifmann, Kassis, Metzger and Yarr, led by the brilliant Carideo, were rolling to their gi'eatest heights, the second consecutive National Championship, the zenith, and end, of Eockne's career. 
During his limping days Frank Leahy became a close buddy of the Rock, joined him as room-mate in a trip to the Mayo clinic, listened to h's discourses, learned his ways with men, recorded his stratagems, attended his every word. 
Out of ND Leahy accepted his first coaching job xmder Tommy Mills at Georgetown, where he handled the line to such a masterful degree that Sleepy Jim Crowley asked him to take over his foi-ward \vall up at Michigan State. This he did, and the Staters dropped only one out of 8 contests in 1932. Crowley moved on to Fordham the following year, and with him went Leahy. 
At Fordham Fi-ank Leahy's long hours with the bruising linemen harvested a thousand fold. A gridiron Bernini, Leahy sculptured seven blocks of gi-anite for the Fordham forward wall. During the 1936 and '37 seasons, opponents, including Pitt's wonder-runners and Purdue's great Ishbell, banged their noggins futilely against Leahy's line. The result was Ford­ham skyrocketed to a place of national prominence, and Leahy was on the- way iip. His chisel has moulded mighty lines ever since, both at Boston and South Bend. 
But while at Fordham Frank Leahy was on the receiving-end of a flying block, administered by an aggressive gent named Dan Cupid. After a subway courtship. Miss Flossie Reilly of Brooklyn, and the Omaha Irishman, middle-aisled it at St. Pat's in the Bronx, Father Scanlan witnessing. 
- The Coach Returns To Notre Dame 
During the lean years Frank Leahy worked for the U. S. Rubber Company, selling athletic equipment throughout the nation. At one time or another during his days Leahy had been a soda jerk, clerk, cowboy, camp counselor, advertising agent, and shoe salesman. 
When the job at Boston College opened up Frank Leahy stepped out of his assistant's role at Rose Hill and took over the pilot's wheel as headman at B. C. There he developed two Bowl teams, led the Eagles to 20 out of 22 games, reared such stars as O'Rourke, Tosczylowski, Goodreault, Currivan, Gladchuck, Ken-, Ananis, and Mike Holovak. 
It didn't take long for the good Holy Cross Fathers to contact the grinning, square-jawed Irishman after Elmer Layden stepped out into the Pro game in 1941. After two brilliant seasons as head coach at Boston College, where he put the Jesuit institution on the gridiron map, Frank Leahy was called back to his Alma Mater on the tAvin lakes, on the wind-swept flats of Northern Indiana. With him came his corps of assistants: Johnny Druze, ex-Fordham end, natty dresser, easy goin', and coach of the flankers; Joe McArdle, hard-bitten ex-Fordhamite, slave-di-iver and cleated Captain Bligh, coach of the guards; Ed McKeever, from down Texas way, graduate of Texas Tech, coach of the backs. 
Everybody knows the story from there on. The 1941 out­fit, led by Ziemba, Wright, Evans, Crimmins and Bertelli, went undefeated, scotched only by Army's 0-0 tie, w^here Hank Mazur, formerly a Leahy pupil at Boston College, threw a wrench into the Irish gears. Dove and Juzwik were two more ND stars picked that year on All-America. 
In 1942, after watching the Chicago Bears rip through the pro leagues in their Model Tee, Frank Leahy did some­thing that just isn't done around Notre Dame. He broke tradition! Gasp! He junked the world-famous Notre Dame shift and installed the revolutionary T-formation, already clicking at Stanford under Shaughnessy, and elsewhere. 
The change worked mai-velously, though the team was not so successful in its schedule as in the previous year. How­ever Leahy was sold on the Tee's strength: fast-breaking backs, quick-opening holes, more deception and chicanery, more running backs in one backfield, pocket protection for the passer, efficient blocking assignments. A nervous crack­up landed Leahy in the hospital for a rest-cure while Mc­Keever carried on. After a slow start the team went on to conclude their first season under the Tee, rolling over USC, Northwestern, Army, Navy, Illinois, Iowa Seahawks, and Great Lakes, tieing Wisconsin, and dropping close ones to Georgia Tech (Castleberry did it) and Michigan (here Kuzma was the culprit). 
Produces National Chomps Upon Return 
Came 1943 and the final year for Miller and Bertelli, and the Irish rode to another National Championship, the sea­son's perfect record marred only by Great Lakes' last minute victory, spawned of Steve Lach's desperation heave to end Anderson in the end zone. The Tee came through in '43, and then Leahy went off to war. 
But 1946 found him back; back after service with the Pacific Submarine Command; back to his Alma Mater; back to rebuild, and go on. 
The lectures Frank Leahy gives aren't ramblings styled only for the ears of prospective grid enthusiasts. He talks slowly, enunciates perfectly, and interjects good old Chris­tian philosophy into his instructions. "Be a fighter," he pounds home to the athletes in front of him, "and not only on the gridiron, gents" (he always refers to his boys as gents or lads) "but out in the world as well." He drives home to the attentive gridders the necessity of physical conditioning. "Strive for physical perfection" is one of his favorite axiom­atic expressions. Time and again he reminds his enthusiastic aspirants that there is no substitute for hard work, and he sets the example himself. 
From a South Dakota schoolboy he rose to Head Coach at Notre Dame. He made friends on the way up, and hasn't forgotten a one of them. Business executives, w^ealthy old grads, equipment salesmen, Anny ofiicars. Priests and Bish­ops, professors, Admiral Nimitz, movie stars, janitors and day-laborers, ball-players and just plain students jam his o{fice, ask to see him, talk with him, and they all find that each one is treated in the same kind and gentle way. 
His family, wife Flossie, 10-year-old Frank Jr., daugh­ters Florence and Susan Marie, and little brother Jei"ry, don't see enough of him these days. He's devoting most of his time to Notre Dame. 
When asked once from whence he came, Frank Leahy grinningly replied: "When we win the people from Nebraska claim me and so do the folks in South Dakota. But when we lose, neither of them want me." Coach Leahy hasn't been in the game all these years without coming to the realization that evei-ybody loves a winner. That's why you see those lights burning so late. He wants to keep on winning for Notre Dame. That's why Irish followers throughout the land were cheered to have him back. They know he'll go on win­ning for Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Coaching Staff 
Edward W. Krause 
Dean of the Moose menage, line coach Ed Krause is a familiar figure on Notre Dame's campus. It was from here in 1934 that he was graduated and became the only Noti-e Dame athlete ever to be voted a trophy by the student body. The record he amassed while attending No­ti-e Dame more than I'ecommended him for this singular honor. He distinguished himself in football, basketball and track. 
OJI the gridiron. Moose Krause Avas a fixture at tackle for three seasons, merit­ing All-American recognition for his splendid pei'formance. In his senior year he played 521 out of a possible 540 min­utes, which is an iron-man mark now and again approached but seldom sur­passed. 
EDWARD WALTER KRAUSE 
On the basketball court—over which 
he holds sway as varsity hardwood coach 
—Krause shattei-ed all available records. 
He was adjudged All-American at the 
completion of each of his three seasons 
and established high-scoring totals for a 
single game, a single season, and over 
the course of three seasons. 
Upon graduation the Moose spent five very successful years as athletic director and head coach at St. Mary's College, Winona, Minn., before proceeding to Holy Cross where he assisted Joe Shee­ketski. In the spring of 1942 Frank Leahy asked Krause to join him at No­tre Dame in the capacity of head line coach. 
A Marine Corps lieutenant, Coach Ki-ause spent 14 months in the South­west Pacific acting as Air-Combat Intel­ligence Ofl5cer %\ith a Leatherneck Bomb­ing Squadron. He was discharged in January, 1946, and immediately returned to Notre Dame to resume his duties as assistant football mentor. In his absence the fortunes of the basketball squad 

By BOB LEANDER 
were entrusted to Elmer Ripley of Georgetown University. But at the con­clusion of the present pigskin campaign Ed Krause again picks up the reins and ventures forth at the helm of the Irish cagers. 
Walfer J. Ziemba 
Wally Ziemba is now starting his fourth year as an assistant coach at his alma mater. It was here in 1940 that he began three seasons of varsity gridding that were eventually to win for him se­vere knee injuries and several places on All-American teams. The bruises were sustained in Wallj^'s junior year, but he sufficiently recovered by the time his last season rolled around to play brilliant ball for Notre Dame and; the next fall, for the College All-Stars. His first mono­gram Avas won as a .varsity tackle, but Coach Leahy found himself lacking cen­ter strength the following season and called on 220 lb. Wally to fill the gap. He performed so capablj"^' that the center patrol was his until he graduated in 1943. Ziemba had been a member of the Marine Corps Reserve while attending school here, so upon receiving his sheep­skin he was ordered to Parris Island, 
S. C. After several weeks in the Officers Training School there, Wally was mus­tered out for physical disabilities, the result of his gridiron days. He returned to Notre Dame and in successive seasons was an aide to Frank Leahy, Ed Mc-Keever, and Hughie Devore. Teamed again with Frank Leahy, Ziemba spends 
WALTER JOHN ZIEMBA 
his springs and falls tutoring the Irish centers while his winter months are de­voted to assisting Moose Krause with the local basketball chores. 
Wally, a native of Hammond, Indiana, married the former Julia Krukowski of that city. They have a daughter, Susan Gail, born December 16, 1945. Try as he might. Coach Ziemba has been unable to find any place for her in future No­tre Dame football strategy. 
Bernard A. Crimmins 
The affable, red-headed Kentuckian is the possessor of many distinctions among his fellows on the Notre Dame coaching staff. Firstly, Bernie Crimmins is the only bachelor among the seven profes­sors of pigskin. He is the only man ever to win three varsity football monograms at three different positions, right half, fullback, and guard. The same three sea­sons he garnered monograms as the num­ber one backstop on the baseball team. 
ffi.^«.'-=;'.-V3 
BERNARD ANTHONY CRIMMINS 
and in his senior year was captain of the nine. But it was in football togs that he won greatest recognition, for the name Bernie Crimmins appeared on virtually every All-American round-up after the '41 season. The next fall, while on leave from his coaching post at Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City, Bernie was named captain of the College All-Star outfit. Resuming his duties at the helm of the Hayes eleven, Crimmins served only five weeks before entering 
Midshipman School at Notre Dame. He was commissioned an ensign in January of 1943 and spent thirty-five months at Naval beck and call. In that time he ship­ped to the South Pacific and assumed command of a PT. For heroism in ac­tion against Jap barges along the coast of New Guinea he was awarded the Silver Star. At the time of his discharge as a full lieutenant, Crimmins had in addition to the Silver Star, the Presiden­tial Citation, Philippine Liberation med­al, and'three battle stars on his Asiatic-Pacific ribbon. 

John F. Druze 
As a high school and college athlete there are few men who can hold a candle to boyish, balding Johnny Druze. While attending Irvington High in New Jersey, he won twelve letters—four as an end on the football team, fovir as a forv/ard in basketball and four in reivard for effort 
JOHN FRANCIS DRUZE 

on the Irvington diamond. Entering Fordham in 1934, Druze played under Jimmy Crowley who at that time was ably assisted by one Frank Leahy. A regular end for three seasons, John cap­tained the Rams 1937 edition anchoring the famous Seven Blocks of Granite. He persisted with his baseball activities and became kno\\'Ti as a very fine fielding first-sacker. He was graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in June, 1938, and that fall played pro football for Potsy Clark's Brooklyn Dodgers. The following spring Frank Leahy asked him to contribute his services as end coach at Noti'e Dams. 
The Navy commissioned Druze an en­sign April 16, 1942, and proceeded to show him the world. Discharged Novem­ber 17, 1945, John held the rank of full lieutenant and had eighteen months of sea duty in both the Atlantic and Pacific to his credit. In the Atlantic the escort carrier on which he was serving nailed two Kraut subs. Transferring to the Pa­cific theater, Druze participated in the landings on Leyte, and the Philippines. 
Before entering the Navy he married the former Eose Stocki of Newark, N. J., and they are now the beaming parents of a seven months pld baby girl. 
Joseph A. McArdle 
Another alumnus of the Fordham Rams, Joe McArdle emerged from that Eastern institute in 1935. He had won three monograms for football although never tipping the scales at more than a modest 170. As a sophomore he played for the beloved Iron Major, Frank Cav­anaugh, and Line Coach "Hiker" Joy. The following seasons, Fordham was led into battle by "Sleepy Jim" Crowley of Four Horseman fame. As has been noted before, Crowley's line prof was Frank Leahy. Forsaking football after gradua­tion, Joe became promotion man for the New York World-Telegram, spending Sunday afternoons exercising Avith the Stapleton pro team of the American As­sociation. Finally the temptation was overwhelming. Coach Leahy wanted Joe at Boston College as head line coach. So in 1939 the stocky, red-faced Irishman returned to his first love, football. 
McArdle's mother and father were born in Ireland but Joe bowed in at Lowell, Mass., June 2, 1911. He attended Lowell High and St. John's prep where he participated in baseball and football. The greatest thrill of his athletic career came in the fonn of his only scoring effort. During the 1933 season Joe block­ed a Bucknell punt and fell on it in the end zone for a score. An assistant coach here at Notre Dame since 1941, McArdle joined the Navy in April of '42—the day before Johnny Druze—and was immedi­ately a junior gi-ade lieutenant. Nine of his ten months in the Pacific were spent aboard the USS Wasp with whose crew he received two battle stars and at least one uncomfortably close call. On the last 
\^M' 

JOSEPH ANDREW McARDLE 
day of hostilities a Jap strafer narrow­ly missed McArdle's compact Hibernian frame as it lay hugging the carrier's deck. 
The McArdles, she was Eleanor Sulli­van of Lowell, Mass., have two children. 
htarfin Brill 
After entering the Univei-sity of Penn­sylvania in 1926 and playing football there his first two years, Marty Brill transferred to Notre Dame and in the company of Frank Carideo, Larry Mul­lins and Marchie Schwartz established himself as one of the greatest blocking backs in grid annals. As members of Rockne's 1929 and 1930 elevens, these four men were acclaimed a backfield rivaled only by Rock's Four Horsemen of a few seasons previous. They rode rough shod over all comers and knocked over old records to replace them with new ones of their own design. If all the legends concerning Marty Brill were ever compiled the resulting volume would 
MARTIN BRHX 

make the Chicago Telephone Directoiy look like a nickel note book. An often told anecdote finds its scene in the Irish locker room just before game time. The players are donning their equipment and Marty, just within earshot of his im­mortal coach, is standing sad-faced be­fore a mirror muttering, "Now get this massive build on straight, Marty, you great, big, beautiful, AU-American. 50,000 people out there, all of them come just to see you, you great, big, handsome man." But now it was the head coach's turn: "0, Marty . . . how can any one so beautiful as you play so much football?" And so the yams unravel, each one add­ing a 'bit more color to the figure who etched his name so deeply in the foot­ball history of Notre Dame in what was a Golden era for ND pigskin partisans. 
Lou Little gave Brill his start in coaching when he invited him. to join the Columbia staff. After two yeai-s tutoring the Lions' backs, Marty moved to Neigh­boring Philadelphia where he became head coach at La Salle College for seven seasons. Thereafter followed two. terms at Loyola U. in Los Angeles and a siege in Sei-vice that was t3?pically Brill-iant. He began by entering the Army Air Corps and attaining the grade of Tech Sergeant. Then it happened. He resigned and went over to the Marine Corps, somewhere in the flurry becoming a First Lieutenant. Marty returned to Notre Dame last August immediately applj^ng his wisdom and experience to Coach Leahy's abundant, if unpolished, back­field material. 
Brill was married to Miss Barbara Thom of Los Angeles in April, 1941. They have two daughters, Joan and Clare, age 4 and l^/z, respectively. 
BUI Barley 
Hailing from Parkersburg, W. Va., drawling, likeable Bill Earley is the man charged with the responsibility of laying the football foundations at Notre Dame. As coach of the "B" team he drills some 70 varsity aspirants in the fine points of the "T," pass defense, down-field blocking and all else that goes to distin­guish an All-American candidate from just another football player. A notable graduate of his squad this past season was Coy McGee, the left halfback who so brilliantly displayed his wai-es against Southern California, after moving up to the varsity in the middle of the cam­paign. 
Bill, who is place-kicking Fred's older brother, is well qualified to handle the Bees having earned monograms here in '41 and '42 as a right halfback on Head Coach Frank Leahy's first two Irish teams. Against the Midshipmen from Annapolis in '41, he reeled off his most memorable run, a 60 yard jaunt which ended on the Navy 1 yard line and set up Dippy Evan's game winning plunge that gave Notre Dame a 20-13 edge over the Middies. 
Following his marriage to Louise Schilling in February, 1942, Bill entered the Ai-my Air Forces and served vnth. the 15th Air Force as a B-24 bombardier. Based in Venosa, Italy, Bill's crew flew 32 sorties and in keeping with the rec­ognized pattern had a generous helping of close calls. After a year overseas and ten months of combat he returned State­side wearing the Purple Heart, the Air Medal with three clusters and the Dis­tinguished Flying Cross with one. Be­fore receiving his discharge he played for the 2nd Air Force Superbombers, teaming with Frankie Sinkwich, Bull­dog Turner, Bill Huber and Ray Evans. 
Trading his captain's bars for a sweat suit and pair of cleats, Bill's fii-st term as a mentor was highly successful. His team won three out of four games and at the conclusion of the season he was able to give the vai'sity nod to six men—Bob Lally, Jack Connor, Joe Yonto, Dick Leous, Paul Owens, and Jerry Rams­berger—^all of whom are likely to see considerable action %vith the Leahymen next year. 
^^^11 

Newspaper and radio coverage on the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game was the greatest on any contest played here in many years. In addition to all the big dailies and \vire services of the middle "west, representatives came from papers in such distant spots as New York, Cali­fornia, and Texas. There were 12 radio 
Irish Place First In AP Title Poll 
The final balloting has been completed by the Associated Press for the mythical National Championship Team. Through­out the 1946 season. Army has held first place but after almost losing to Navy last Saturday and Notre Dame's decisive win over Southern California, the sports writers placed the Fighting Irish on top by seventy-one points. Notre Dame re­ceived 100 first place votes Avhile Anny had to be satisfied vinth 48. Nine writers called it a tie bet^veen the first two teams. Georgia climbed to third place garnering 23 fii-st place votes and UCLA fijiished fourth wth two first place votes. Texas and - Delaware also received one first place vote. 
Notre Dame's 1946 football machine led the nation in offensive and defensive strength by piling up 3,972 yards in nine games for an average of 441 yards per contest while it held opponents to an averagte gain of 141.6 yards. 
These figures prove conclusively that the Irish were, as voted in the A.P. poll, the No. 1 team in the nation. 
By rushing alone, Notre Dame gained 3,061 yards for an average of 340 yards on the ground per game and also topped the nation in this department. 
The first  ten  teams  in order of  their  
standing:  First  Place  
Team  Points  Votes  
1. Notre Dame  1,730%  100  
2.^ Army  1,659%  48  
3. Georgia  1,448  23  
4. UCLA  1,141  2  
5. Illinois  893  
6. Michigan  778  
7. Tennessee  507  
8. L.S.U.  402  
9. North Carolina  394  
10. Rice ,  207  

The Ivy League Joins America 

Those who have been despairing of the Ivy League may take heart. It is true that Stei'ling Morton High School could take any of them this year, but things are looking up. A mere glance at the lineups makes it clear that the once Big Three have finally decided to be­come American, and that can be regard­ed as a first step toward becoming all-American. 
To be sure, there is no encouragement to be found in the presence of a Hol­lingshead among the Yalesies. Such names suggest a retrogression to the days when it was thought that football was a game of, by, and for New Eng­landers. Mr. Holingshead is, however, only one among eleven. No moi*e alarms need be felt about Mr. Jackson, the Yale fullback, than is felt at Champaign over the appearance of Mr. Young's name in the lineup. Yale has its Barzilauskas, Prchlik, Nadherny, and De Nezzo, among others, to lead Mr. Hollingshead in the paths he should tread. 
Princeton is a little slow. Old Nassau has discovei'ed southern Europe, but still has much to learn about the riches that lie behind the iron curtain. A Pera­toni and a Barbieri are evidence, how­ever, of an awakening. Perhaps Mr. Finical may also herald the Princeton renaissance, but the name looks Lrish in the sense not employed at Notre Dame. 
Harvard has a Hauptfuhrer, a Fein­berg, a Moravec, and a Florentine. We are glad to see these good American names in the box scores. They indicate that even the oldest of our colleges are not incapable of learning. In time these institutions may yet become thoroughly Americanized. 
Chicago Daily Tribune, 
Saturday, Nov. 23, 1946. 

outlets including three networks. Gompers is stopped four yards short of Army's gocd by Foldberg. 
GREATEST PERSONAL THRILLS AU AfnenicanA 
(Nu7nbers in parantheses are the years of eligibility.) 
Jack Zilly, (1) "Playing against Ai-my in Yankee Stadium." 
Ziggy Czarobski, (1) "Embracing my girl after the Navy game in Baltimore." 
George Connor, (1) "Being named co-captain of the Northwestern game." 
Moose Fischer, (2) "Hard to say, hon­est. Just playing was a thrill." 
George Strohmeyer, (2) "Seeing my mother after the Purdue game when I didn't even know she was watching the game." 
John Mastrangelo, (0) Getting back my old job on the first team." 
Jim Martin, (3) "I'm a fi-eshman. Brother, so it was all something new to me." 
Johnny Lujack, (1) "Getting the team off on the right foot against Illinois. Ac­cording to the papers we were supposed to have something this year. It was good finding out for ourselves against the mini." 
Frank Kosikowski, (2) "Playing for the first time for Notre Dame." 
Terry Brennan, (2) "Playing the Ca­dets in Yankee Stadium, especially after last year's score." 
Emil Sitko, (3) "Getting away on my long run against Illinois." 
Fred Rovai, (0) "Being named co-captain in my last game for Notre Dame." 
George Sullivan, (1) "I had two of them. The first was playing again against Army. The second thrill was enjoying the great feeling that each member of the second team enjoyed all year long." 
Paul Limont, (1) "Being named co-captain for the Tulane game in my old home town of New Orleans." 
Jerry Cowhig, (1) "Finding myself in the Navy game." Coy McGee, (2) "That last game was 
thrilling for me. It was a great feeling running in front of those beautiful blocks that the fellows threw for me." 
Pete Ashbaugh, (1) "Getting a chance to run with the ball for the first time in the Southern Cal game on that punt return."x 
Bob Livingstone, (1) "Coming back to play for Notre Dame and • getting a chance to play once in a while." 
George Ratterman, (2) "Hitting Hart with that touchdown pass in the last game of the season." 
Floyd Simmons, (2) "Being able to take advantage of my chance in the Navy game." 
Jim Mello, (1) "Coming back to Notre Dame and getting my old job back at fullback." 
Ernie Zalejski, (3) "Dodging Tulane tacklers before I got hurt down in the Sugar Bowl." 
John Panelli, (2) "Stretching my legs in the Purdue game." 
Fred Earley, (2) "Getting ready to go into the Army game when it looked like we were going to score." 
Gus Cifelli, (3) "When I played for Notre Dame for the first time against Illinois. Gee, I was nei-vous." Bob Skoglund, (1) "Catching that pass of Johnny's in the Ai-my game and 
being  named  co-captain  in  the  Tulane  
game."  
• •>»— •  

ATTENDANCE RECORD OF 1946 FOOTBALL GAMES niinois 75.119 Pittsburgh 50.368 Purdue 55.452 Iowa „ 52,311 Navy 65.000 Army „_ 74.000 Northwestern _ 56.000 Tulane 68.000 So. Cal „ 56.000 
552250 

Total 
"Scholastic" All-American Team 
FIRST TEAM Foldberg. Army Coimor. Notre Dame Mastrangelo. Notre Dame Strohmeyer. Notre Dame Steffy. Army Davis. Georgia Tech Baldwin. UCLA Lujack, Notre Dame Davis. Army Trippi. Georgia Blanchard. Army 
End Tackle Guard Center Guard Tackle End Back Back Back Back 
SECOND TEAM Bechtol, Texas Williams. Georgio 
A. Agase. Illinois Duke. Georgia Tech Barwegen. Purdue Chambers. UCLA Poole. Army Tucker, Army Wedemeyer, St Mary's ~ Brennan. Notre Dame 
Layne. Texas 
Associated Press: 
L.E. Baldwin, UCLA 
L.T. Huffman, Tennessee 
L.G.
 Humble, Rice 

C.
 Duke, Georgia Tech 


R.G. A. Agase, Illinois. 
R.T. Connor, Notre Dame 
R.E. Madar, Michigan 
Q.B. Lujack, Notre Dame 
L.H. Trippi, Georgia 
R.H. Davis, Army 
F.B. Blanchard, Army 
International News Service: 
L.E. Foldberg, Army 
L.T. Ambling, Ohio State 
L.G.
 Mastrangelo, Notre Dame 

C.
 Strohmeyer, Notre Dame 


R.G. A. Agase, Illinois 
R.T. Connor, Notre Dame 
R.E. Baldwin, UCLA 
Q.B. Lujack, Notre Dame 
L.H. Davis, Army 
R.H. Trippi, Georgia' 
F.B. Blanchard, Army 
Oscar Fraley, United Press: 
L.E. Foldberg, Army 
L.T. Connor, Notre Dame 
L.G.
 Steffy, Army 

C.
 Bednarik, Penn 


R.G. Mastrangelo, Notre Dame 
R.T. BaiTies, Southern Cal 
R.E. Baldwin, UCLA ' 
Q.B. Lujack, Notre Dame 
L.H. Davis, Army 
R.H. Trippi, Georgia 
F.B. Blanchard, Army 
Transradio Press Service: 
L.E. Baldwin, UCLA 
L.T. Savitsky, Penn 
L.G.
 Ambling, Ohio State 

C.
 Mancha, Alabama 


R.G. Connor, Notre Dame 
R.T. Ferraro, Southern Cal 
R.E. Bechtol, Taxas 
Q.B. Tucker, Army 
L.H. Davis, Army 
R.H. Blanchard, Army 
F.B. Trippi, Georgia 
All-Opponent Team: (Picked by the Irish squad) 
L.E. Foldberg, Army 
L.T. Farrara, Southern California 
L.G.
 Banks, Iowa 

C.
 Scott, Navy 


R.G. Barwegan, Purdue 
R.T. Ivy, Northwestern 
R.E. Poole, Army 
Q.B. Tucker, Army 
L.H. Davis, Army 
R.H. Young, Illinois 
F.B. Blanchard, Army 
Ed. Note—Scott of Navy wtis the unanimous choice for Center. 
7i4e McUlancU QUawf^uutl 
By BILL SLAVICK 
Invincibility in a football team isn't a matter of geography proper coaching molds men of varying backgrounds and tem­—14 states are represented on the Notre Dame varsity; it isn't peraments into an unbeatable team. a matter of age—^the Irish average is ai'ound 23, ranging from The 1946 Fighting Irish have these sterling qualities and 19 to 25; it isn't a matter of nationality—Strohmeyer, Czarob-abilities—now meet them . . . the team from the Golden Dome ski, Skoglund, McGee, and Mastrangelo could hardly be all Irish that stopped Army's claim to invincibility . . . the team that or Polish or Italians. An invincible spirit is that proportioned showed from its first Satvirday afternoon that it had uncon­mixture of spiritual qualities and physical abilities, which with querable stuff when it steam-rollered over Illinois, and proved the proper goal, the proper determination, and finally the it convincingly by uinding up with a 26-6 triumph over USC. 
Q
r 
^ 
JOHN AGNONE, Fullback, was a monogram winner for the Irish in '45, and saw a great deal of action in the Northwestern game this season. "Agony" is small, but exceptionally fast and de­ceptive, and a very hai-d worker. He is an active pailicipant in boxing and cop­ped the 165-lb. -title in the annual Bengal Bouts last spring. He attended Rayen High in Youngstown whei-e he captained his football team in 1941. His brother', Tony, former star at Ohio U., is his favoi-ite athlete here. 
PETE ASHBAUGH, Quarterback, re­placed Lujack when Johnny needed rest and the Irish were on the defensive, and did a great defensive job, particularly against aerial attack. In '42 Pete was the "Player of the Day" as the Irish beat the Seahawks 28-0, then went off to the war, serving as a-B-29 pilot in the Pacific. Pete's coach at South High in Youngstown, Ohio, was "his dad, Brown 
University's Captain in 1913. Other Ash­"baugh, Sr. proteges sent to N. D. in­clude Mike Koken, Fred Mundee, and Bob Dove. Pete's biggest thrills have Tieen a 70 yard pass to Dove in a high school game and catching a 6 pound bass at the age of nine. 
30. 

^^^iiAZ/TfO/yLy^ 
TERRY BRENNAN, Left Halfback, surprised many when he earned a start­ing position over lettermen of the '43 National Championship team. The smil­ing Sophomore president is from Mil­waukee where he captained the Mar­quette High eleven the year following his brother Jim's captaincy and gradua­tion. Only 18, Terry was among the most consistent ground-gainers on the squad, scoring touchdowns against Illinois, Pitt, Purdue, Iowa, and Tulane. Brennan was named "Player of the Week" after the 
p-amp. thft Clnh noil
Pitt game in the Met Club poll, and turn­ed in one of the best Irish offensive jobs in the Army game. 
• 
GUS CIFELLI, Left Tackle, some­times known as August Blaze, came to 
N. D. after a hitch in the Marines. In the service, he was a boxing instructor, when not using a machine gun. Holder of the Purple Heart, he lists being hit by a Jap kamikaze plane as his most interesting experience. At 6' 4" and 250 pounds, Cifelli figured on being the big­gest man on the squad, but circumstances whittled him down to 225. 
• 
CORNIE CLATT, Fullback, played in the same varsity backfield with Creigh­ton Miller in '41, and is back at Notre Dame after 32 months in the Aimy Med­ical Corps, stationed in Mississippi and at Memphis, Tennessee. In '43 he played service ball for Camp Grant, and prior to his first two seasons at Notre Dame, earned eight letters at E. Peoria Com­munity High, captained the grid squad, and was an all-state back. Corwinis a good line-backer, and one of th hardest runners on the squad. He played in both the '43 and '44 All-Star College games, helping quite a bit in beating the Red­skins in '43, 27-7. 
CJdt 
GEORGE CONNOR, Left Tackle, can righteously add "All-American" to his nickname of Moose after his performance with the Irish this season—Buddy Young didn't get by him, and neither did Blan­chard and Davis. From Chicago, he at­tended Holy Cross (where his father once captained the team) two years prior to the war, where he was named to sev­eral AU-American teams. He was dis­charged as an ensign last June after 35 months of service in the Navy. After the Purdue game, Connor was named "Player of the Week" in the Met Club poll. George is also No. 1 kickoff man. 
GERRY COWHIG, Left Halfback, was switched from fullback prior to the Illi­nois game, and after a couple of weeks getting accustomed to the change became one of the mainstays of the Irish ground offense. Gerry returned in the spring after 36 months in the Army, mostly as a medic attached to the infantry in Europe. His greatest day prior to the Army was in '42 when he scored twice in the 28-0 upset of the Iowa Seahawks. Captain of the Army game with Lujack, Cowhig played one of his best games that day in New York; his only touch­down through the Tulane game, had 
(^,4r*-vrrMrTL/ 
"iAJ^-XM^/— 

come a week earlier against Navy on a 31 yard jaunt. F.rom Dorchester, Mass., he has a brother, Eddie, who is a parish priest in Revere, Mass. 
• 
ZYGMONT CZAROBSKI, Righ t Tackle, was a regular on the '43 national champions, and took over his starting berth with no delay after sei-ving at Bainbridge, Maryland, and on Leyte, Sa­mar, and the Philippines. Zygmont (Zig­gy) Peter is the official spokesman of the eleven, and writes a weekly "syndicated" column, "It Behooves Me Greatly." List­ing his occupations as forest ranger and butcher, he numbers getting his tie caught in a meat grinder as one of his "narrow escapes." An injury kept him out of action in the Army game, but he made his favorite dish (Polish sausage) out of opposing linemen in every other game. During spring practice this year he was picked as the "best charging tackle." 
• 
FRED EARLEY, Left Halfback, has no playing time to his credit this year, but has a point total that isn't very far behind TD leader Mello. Due to a knee operation, Earley isn't able to play as a regular, although he was a mainstay in '43, scoring three times. But Earley can kick extra points, and is the best place­kick artist the campus has seen in some time. His best record in college is this season, with 29 out of 34 through the Tulane game. In high school he kicked 2-5 for 2.5 before a game between his Parkersburg, \V. Va., team and Wheel­ing then missed his first try in the game. He is the brother of Bill Earley, N.D. graduate of '42, and B team coach, and is probably best known for his single point that beat the Iowa Seahawks 14-13 in '43. In the Navy, his most thrilling experience is of a plane crashing 22 feet from the spot he was standing on aii 
L.C.I. Last season he played at Ann­apolis. 
JOHN FALLON, Right Tackle, is the heavyweight boxing champion of the University and never will back down when the going gets tough, as was evi­denced by his perfoiinance in the Ben­gal Bouts last spring. Fallon's first big chance this season came when Czarobski was benched with an injury in the Army game, and he filled the bill well. From Alton, 111., he is one of the few weight­lifting hobbyists on the squad. 
[c^ T-JL-^ 
^idUL 7^>o/ix^ 
BILL FISCHER, Left Guard, is an­other Moose from Chicago—Lane Tech, where he was team captain in his final year, making the All-Illinois team. A holdover from the '45 team, Fischer fought it out for the starting guard slot with half dozen veterans of the '43 championship team—and won out. He is one share of a three-way tie for big­gest on the team with Connor and Gus Cifelli—all three weigh 225. 
• 
BILL GOMPERS, Right Halfback, has probably moved forward farther since '45 than any of last year's hold­overs. Every game he has been more depended on to pick up needed yardage, and in virtually every case has delivered. In high school. Central Catholic in Wheeling, W. Va., he won three letters in football, and captained his team his senior year, mnning all-city honors. This season he has scored against Pitt, Iowa and Navy. 
• LEON HART, Right End, has seen plenty of time in the Irish lineup this season, and is tabbed an exceptionally good pass-receiver. Listed as just as big as the biggest on the Irish squad—^225, Hart is a newcomer from Turtle Ci-eek, 
(Bj^i^V^ 

Pa. He only celebrated his 18th birthday the day of the Navy game. At Turtle Creek High, he won letters in football, basketball, and baseball, captaining the grid and diamond teams. Hart is an engineering student, and favors math among his studies. 
FRANK KOSIKOWSKI, Right End, makes the fourth Pole in the lineup when he is in with Lujack, Czarobski, and Sitko. He played with the Fleet City Navy service champions last season ^^^th Buddy Young, Charley O'Rourke, Steve Juzwik, Lou Zontini, and Chuck Riffle. At Cudahy, Wis., High he lettered in football, track, boxing, and track, tying the State 200 yard dash record. Kosi­kowski's Fleet City record gave him berths on several pre-'46 season Ail-Americans, and he has well lived up to prospects. 
• 
PAUL LIMONT, Left End, went home to his old home town of New Orleans as co-captain of the Fighting Irish for the Tulane game after three years of service in the Navy, mostly in the Pa­cific. Although born in St. Paul, he at­tended Jesuit High in New Orleans where he was an all-state and. A mono­
 I'bui lt:;;JLw^ 
?^J^fi 
gram winner on the '43 champions, Paul also excells in football and sailing. His brother, Mark, is also an end at Notre Dame. 
• 
BOB LIVINGSTONE, Left Halfback, is the "crazyleg" runner of the Irish squad. His play against Illinois was out­standing, but a knee injury shelved him early in the Purdue game, and he wasn't all right again until the Northwestern game in which he served as captain with Moose Connor. He scored the opening touchdown of the year, following Sitko's long run to the Illinois four. Bob spent his service time with the infantry in the 
C.B.I. Theatre, and due to Army duties, was bothered with foot trouble in spring practice. He doesn't seem especially fast, but he is very effective on cut-back plays. His biggest athletic moment was when he went 73 yards for a score in his first game at Hammond, Ind., High. Coaching is his ambition. 
• JOHNNY LUJACK, Quarterback, re­turned from sub-chaser in the English Channel, to lead Notre Dame to an un­defeated season. Co-captain in both the Illinois and Army games, Johnny's field generalship throughout the season, plus 
Q<4-f^-^^r^^ 
j^^'^^^^^-^M-S^^^V^"-'"/'"" •^^^""; i,i•. 't^^-""^i 

his superb passing and defensive play, gives him undisputed possession of All-American rating this year. The likeable Connellsville, Pa., representative on the squad made his first big appearance at Notre Dame in '43 at the age of 18 when he filled Marine service-bound Angelo Bertelli's shoes and passed the Irish to a 26-0 victory over the Cadets. The same year Lujack gathered letters in baseball, track, and basketball at Notre Dame. 
• JIM MAETIN, Left End, swam into the Irish '46 grid picture last spring, after 30 months in the U. S. Marines. While in the Pacific, he was cited for a swim ashore to the enemy-controlled is­land of Tinian to secure information on the terrain prior to invasion—he was captain of the East Tech High swimming team in Cleveland. Martin gave indica­tion of his fine work this season, which won him All-American mention, when his appearance in spring drills won for him the Bering Medal as the "best block­ing end." • JOHN MASTEANGELO, Right Guard, was named "Lineman of the Week" after the Navy game in '45, and 
<jU V(\aJXi^-^ 
has played just as great ball on a steady basis all season. Following mention on All-Americans last year, he spent the summer washing windows in a foundry in his hometown of Vandergrift, Pa. An accounting major, John boasts an ex­cellent 85 average. He entered the '46 campaign more reasonably sure of a position in the first eleven than any other line candidate, and has borne out that theory well, starting almost every game. He was elected president of the senior class last month. 
• 

BOB McBEIDE, Eight Guard, return­ed this season after 39 months in the Army, and without question, the rough­est experiences behind him of any of the grid candidates. A monogram mnner in '41 and regular left guard in '42, Bob has been switched to right guard to fill a shortage there. As a machine gun squad leader, his outfit was rushed into action late in 1944, and on Dec. 19, 1944, during the Battle of the Bulge, he and most of his division were captured. His feet were frozen the day before capture, and after being taken into custody by the Germans, he was forced to walk for 18 days. As the German line began to crack, he and his buddies were forced to 
G(Hf. McQee 

walk again from the 14th of February until the 5th of April. Their rations were one-seventh of a loaf of bread per day. 
After 122 days imprisonment, he was liberated. McBride had lost 99 pounds, dropping from 213 to 114. Leg trouble bothered him in spring practice, but he has gotten back into condition and played a bang-up game in the Irish line all season. He has three battle stars and the Purple Heart, in addition to the presi­dential citation. At high school in Lo­gan, Ohio, he captained football and basketball teams and won All-Ohio hon­ors in 1939. Bob is married, and hopes to enter coaching upon graduation. 
• 

COY McGEE, Left Halfback, from Longview, Texas played one year at Tid­sa U. before coming to N.D. He has prob­ably the longest run to his credit of any­one on the Irish squad—109 yards! Back at East Mountain High in '44, playing on the White Oak High team, his broth­ers, returned from the service, were see­ing him for the first time—and the only time as it was* the final game of the year. McGee returaed a punt 65 yards for a touchdown but it was called back, then he intercepted a pass, going 55 yards to score—it was called back. Finally in the third quarter he faked a punt from the back of his own end zone and went to the opposing one yard line—his coach 
v; < * r^ ;>^ k.y;». 
.•/ 
k^> 
. r J

>?•*'• 
^^^^/TK^-^ . 

Above. Pep Panelli rambles on a 17-yard gain that carried to the Purdue 13-yard line. No. 98 is Purdue tackle Sam Nevills. 
Bottom, extreme right. Coy McGee cuts around right end in Trojan game after taking a shovel pass from Ratterman. Panelli (G7) and Rovai (42) are blocking, and Hart (82) is on his knees. Linehan (49) and Oestreich (40) look ai McGee's heels. 
Bottom, second from right. Bob Livingstone scores the second Irish touchdown against Illinois. (Arrow indicates ball.) 
Bottom, second from left, Strohmeyer and McBride nurse sprained ankles in ice on train returning from Navy game. The team had its o-wn Hallow^e'en party on the train. 
Below^, Irish mascot Clashmore Mike overlooks football rivalry to v^in the affection of two lovely Purdue cheerlead­ers. Who wouldn't? 
In the third period of Navy game Terry Brennan breaks t-A­loose on a IS-yard run. 
During the Navy game Manager Bill Boss, Tripucka, Lujack and Coach Leahy watch from bench as Ash­baugh kneels along side-line. 
I I 0m&Sp' 
Clatt (69) gains four yards through Purdue line as Fallon (68) and Mastrangelo 
(75) trap Nevills. At left Swistowicz blocks out Purdue's Hoffman. V Rovai, and Skoglund slop Army's Glenn Davis on his 17-yard line. 
iffr',t{^^ J*.'.' • ^ •, 
Lujack carries the ball around right end for a five yard gain in the Army gome. 
>~Si 
ynJUia-

Winlon Knowles, foi-mer teammate of Ed McKeever, took him out then! His first blood at Notre Dame came with a touchdown against Tulane. 
RALPH McGEHEE. Left Tackle, from Chicago, is one of the melting pots of the team—of Irish-Dutch-Scotch-English descent. McGehee was a team­mate of Swistowicz at Tilden Tech, where he was all-city in '44 and '45. He also lettered in wrestling at Tilden. Ralph saw most of his action this year late in the season, and since he is only a freshman now, has great possibilities for the next three years. He is a com­merce major. 
• 

JIM MELLO, Fullback, from West Warwick, R. I., returned to the campus of Our Lady after over two years in the Navy; married; father of a little boy, Jimmy, Jr.; and an ex-member of the '44 Great Lakes team that was beaten 28-7 by Notre Dame. As first string fullback in '43, he averaged 5.2 yards per carry for a total gain, of 714 yards. With much more depth this year, Mello hasn't been forced to do such yeoman duty, but has been most dependable for the last few yards—agoing: over for six TD's prior to the Southern Cal game. He was named captain for the Purdue game, and held 
AJ^JUWMju-ll\jJSZ, 
^^^^B :i k-'^^l^i i«s'-J •.•"''';^ 
-x^-^ '^ H •E^^> - c3'* 
^*.^ -. ** .*'' '"r^-i' ^H '"'^' ~"! l^£B B^r­
-^jf ^•
<^' ^e^^l 
'* V^^K ^M »g»^ 
f^SI^OBF 
-•fS 1m
'" ^B 
- ^^^1 ^p^^^^V i! -•? _£., ^^ 
^^^v^?^^^^S 
^^B^^H 
^B^'-^^ 
•. 
9^*^^^^ Gtv" mtk Il^^ ­jS^^^^s M^^ '-^JB 
HHit 

his starting team position for virtually every game. 
BERNIE METER, Left Guard, re­turns after 38 months in Uncle Sam's Marines. A monogram winner in '42 and '43, Meter was discharged just before the start of the season. He was a Second Lieutenant at time of separation from the Marines. At Cathedral Latin in Cleveland, he helped his team win the 1940 city championship. Bernie played service ball at Camp Lejeune in 1944, pi'ior to reporting to the Pacific. Meter is in the Commerce school and would like to go into sales promotion in Cleve­land after graduation. 
JOHN PANELLI, Fullback, from Morristown, New Jersey, is not only the No. 2 fullback, but could pass as Mello's brother, often creating confusion on the practice field. He went from All-State in '43 in high school straight to Notre Dame, and a year later was carrying the ball for the Irish varsity. Injured most of '45, he had a 6.3 average per carry, and has done just as well with about twice as much action this season. He scored against Purdue and Iowa, and twice against Northwestern. 
m^. 

GEORGE RATTERMAN, Quarter­back, is one of the best all-round athletes in the history of Notre Dame, being one of the few to ever win four monograms in one year ('44-'45 in football, basket­ball, baseball, and track). At St. George's in Chicago he was all-state in football and basketball, and went to the state singles finals in tennis. The future law­yer usually has first bid on Lujack's position when Johnny comes out and the Irish are on the offensive. Although one of the greatest athletes at Notre Dame, the Cincinnati quartei'back weighs only 165. 
• 

FRED ROVAI, Right Guard, was a regular in '44 and '45, and saw a lot of action again this season. A vicious block­er, Rovai got his high school training in Hammond, Ind., home town of Bob Liv­ingstone, and Assistant Coach Wally Ziemba. He won All-State honors there as a fullback, and came on to be Fresh­man fullback at Notre Dame. His big­gest grid thrill occurred that year when he scored against the varsity. 
• JOE SIGNAIGO, Left Guard, was the No. 1 guard on the '43 team in point of service, and came back this year after service in the Pacific just in time to get 
Y^ 

in shape for the Illinois game. At Catho­lic High in Memphis, Tennessee, Joe lettered in football four years, leading the Terriers to two parochial champion­ships. He was an All-Memphis football, basketball, and baseball man, won the prep boxing title one year, and twice won All-State berths in football. High­lights of his '46 season were stopping Pistol Pete Williams on the Irish goal line in the Navy game, a gi*eat game against Anny, and co-captaincy in the Tulane game. 
• FLOYD SIMMONS, Right Halfback, saw action in the final three games of '45 after a discharge from the Navy, and this season has played regularly, leading the Irish attack against Navy with two touchdowns. The next week he was injured in practice, and saw very little game time afterwards. At JeiFerson High in Portland, Oregon, he earned three letters in football, three in base­ball, two in hockey, and one in track. He threw the shot on Coach Handy's team here last winter and spring. • EMIL SITKO, Right Halfback, better known as Bud, held the distinction of inaugurating the '46 season with an 83 
yard dash setting up the first touchdown against Illinois. Cousin of Steve Sitko, former Irish quarterback. Bud was away from Notre Dame 37 months at Great Lakes, Norman Naval Station, and St. Mary's Pre-flight. At Great Lakes he scored one of the touchdowns that ruined Coach Leahy's undefeated 1943 National Championship season. Following the Illi­nois game this year, the stumpy Fort Wayne back was out of action for some­time with a leg injury, but returned late in the season to regain his starting line­up position. 
BOB SKOGLUND, Left End, from Chicago, is completing his third consecu­tive year, although away from Notre Dame about 10 months during '45 and '46, prior to his discharge as an ensign during the summer. Mentioned on sev­eral All-American squads last year, Bob follows in the footsteps of his older brother, Len, who won monograms in '36 and '37. Vastly improved during the '45 campaign, Skoglund turned into an ex­cellent defensive end besides improving his glue-finger technique. His TD for '46 was a beautiful one-man proposition as he took the ball out of the passing hand of Purdue's Mihalic and went fifteen yards to scoi'e. 
GEORGE STROHMEYER, Center, better known as Tex or possibly Ferdi­nand, holds the high school letter record at Notre Dame with 24 letters at Mc-AUen High in Texas—four each in foot­ball, basketball, baseball, track, boxing-and swimming. A fullback in high school, he switched to center and played with the Iowa Seahawks while in the Navy. Landing a plane with the wing half torn off is one of his most interesting exper­iences, along with taking a big share in stopping Big Doc in New York Novem­ber 9th. Strohmeyer, always hard-driv­ing, is almost always first down on punts. 
* 

GEORGE SULLIVAN, Right Tackle, served in the Navy 30 months, which in­cluded a lengthy period as a deck officer on a destroyer operating in the western Pacific and China Sea. He seems to have a slight obsession for letters and mono­grams, collecting 10 in high school in East Walpole, Mass., then coming on to 
N.D. to earn his first in '43 at the ripe old age of 17. He won another mono­gram here in '44. "SuU's" best perform­ance of this year was against Army when he filled in for injured Bill Fischer and won acclaim as "Lineman of the Week." 
^juJl^^*-*'^*'^ 

MIKE SWISTOWICZ, Eight Half-Ijack, hasn't been on the campus a year, hut already has a reputation for his gridiron work. He Avas the outstanding Frosh back dui'ing spring di-ills, and seemed to forget that experience made any difference when fall practice started, landing a second team spot early in the year. At Tilden Tech in Chicago, he ac­quired 11 letters in a variety of sports, captaining football, track and speed skating teams. He was an all-state grid­der as a senior, and played against Claude (Buddy) Young while in high school. 
FRANK TRIPUCKA, Quarterback, nicknamed "Trip," was a freshman re­sei've signal-caller in '45, and has seen considei'ably more action this season. He tossed a touchdown pass against Tu­lane in '45, and lists that as his biggest thrill. At Bloomfield, N. J., High he earned three letters each in football, basketball, and baseball, and was an all-state halfback as a senior. As an under­study of Lujack, his passing abilities have been ovei-shadowed, but his, as well as Ratterman's, passing skill is near the top in the Midwest. 
"^u/ifM, 
BILL WALSH, Center, had the mo­mentous job of filling Mai-ty Wendell's and Frank Szymanski's shoes when both left prior to the stai-t of the '45 season, and did a whale of a job filling in. Only 18 now, Walsh has played the same brand of ball this year that won him All-State honors at Phillipsbui'g, N. J. High in 1944. He also served as captain there his senior year. The past spring he was given the Bering medal as the "best blocking center." A physical education major, he wants to coach following grad­uation. 
MARTY WENDELL, Center, came back after Navy service at Great Lakes where he helped the Bluejackets defeat the Irish in the season finale. Marty im­mediately began a battle for the center spot with Strohmeyer, that ended with them splitting center chores and Wen­dell doing a lot of defensive duty in the fulback spot. Marty was being depended on to do stellar center work for the Irish last season, but was transferred from 
N.D. on the eve of the opening game. The Chicagoan's recognized performance of this season was against Army. 
W-t-v^ici^ 
ERNIE Z ALE J SKI, Left Halfback, is, after Lujack, about the most talked-of man on the squad. At South Bend Wash­ington High, he set all kinds of marks for future high school backs to shoot for. Three times he was named all-state halfback, and led Washington to two state titles and the finals of a third. After service in the Army, "Rocky" was discharged just after the Pitt game, saw a few minutes of action against Pur­due, then had two weeks to get ready for steady use. Against Navy, he almost singly conducted a touchdown march, and went over twice against Tulane on nice 
runs. His family lives at 427 Grant Street in South Bend. 
JACK ZILLY, Right End, captained the Irish against Pitt, and pi-oved his right to the honor all season pulling in a good percentage of Lujack's tosses, and playing brilliant defensive ball that helped stop the end runs of Young and Davis. From Southington, Conn., Zilly earned his first monogram at N.D. in '43, prior to service with the Navy in the Pacific Theatre. Between hunting and fishing in New England's mountains, Zil­ly wants to coach following gi-aduation. 
THE "B" SQUAD 
While passing out the bouquets for deserving football performances this sea­son, let's not forget the "B" squad charges of Coaches Bill Earley and Jack Barry who racked up three wins in four outings and atoned for their single set­back with a convincing 38-13 triumph over Michigan State in their season's finale. 
The Great Lakes BUiejackets opened the season for the Irish by being 40-0 
fJ:-=^'-K---­

victims at Gi-eat Lakes. Emil Slovak, speedy back from Elliston, Ohio, set the Q^dL^^^iM. pace against the Sailors with touch­down galops of 13, 33, and 70 yards. Jim Brennan, right half, Milwaukee, ARTHUR JOHN STATUTO, Center. Wis., also added a score on a 70 yard He returns from 37 months in the Navy jaunt. The other two tallies came on a being discharged as an ensign on August 4-yard plunge by Charles Wise, half­
23. His military duties included service back, and a 35-yard sweep around end as an engineering officer on an LSM. by Tom Owens, halfback from Atlanta. Last football season he played for the 
Michigan State handed Notre Dame Fort Pierce, Florida Navy team. He was its only loss of the campaign at East a member of the Fighting Irish squad in Lansing on Oct. 19, when they took a1943. At Saugus, Massachusetts, High, 21-13 decision from the Irish. Joe Yonto, he won four letters in football and two pile driving fullback from Oi-ville, Ohio, in baseball. His high school coach was was the big Irish gun in this fray as he Henry Toczlowski. The latter played tallied both markers for the Blue and quarterback for Frank Leahy at Boston Gold. 
College. Statuto's favorite, author is H. Allen Smith,.and as a true Bostonian, Lancaster Smith, scatback from Leb­his number one athletic hero is Ted Wil­anon, Ky., scored twice to pace the "B" liams. He hopes to teach or coach fol­squad to a 14-6 triumph over Purdue 
lowing graduation. in its third game of the season. The first score came on a 16-yard dash that overcame a 6-0 Purdue lead. Smith took 
CASPAR URBAN, Left Tackle, notch­ed the second team tackle slot with no one over him but AU-American George Connor. In Lynn, Mass., the lone Lithu­anian on the squad, played on the same team with Frank Dancewicz, '45 Irish captain. He was captain there and made All-State at fullback in 1941. "Gas" is a commerce major and saw action in al­most every game this season. 
W\t,-­

EMIL SLOVAK, Halfback, is one of 
.i . h i.%i^ 
the smallest men on the squad at 155 pounds and 5' 7" tall, or rathei-, short. Coach Leahy calls him the "150-lb. Doc Blanchard" and he showed everyone that wasn't far wrong either with a nice touchdown run against Northwestern this year. A monogram winner in '45, Slovak hails from Oak Harbor, Ohio, where he won a quartet of letters in a 4.5-yard pass in the end zone for the second tally early in the fourth qxiarter. 
The return game with Michigan State was the only tilt of the year that the "B's" played at home. They opened fast to take a 7-0 lead early in the first quarter on an 80-yard march, climaxed by a 7-yard plunge by Johnny Agnone, hai-d-hitting fullback from Youngstown. Jim Brennan added the point from place­ment. The Spartans scored late in the first period and the halftime score read 7-6 with the Irish ahead. 
The second half fireworks were pro­vided by Lai-ry Coutre, left half from Chicago, as he scampered 80 yards around end in the third quarter. Jim Mc­Gui-k, fullback, Montclaii-, N. J., added another six-pointer on a plunga from the one. Michigan State drove back" to pull within 20-13 early in the fourth period, but Coutre iced the game with a 78-yard kickoif return to score. McGurk tallied once more in the fourth quarter, and shortly before the gun sounded. Jack Connor, guard, Chicago, intercepted a sti-ay pass and dashed 60 yards to make the final count read 38-13. 
Coach Bill Eai-ley singled out several freshmen who seemed destined to see action with the varsity in their remain­ing years under the Dome. They are: Connor, guard; Lally, guard; Eamsber­ger, fullback; Carter, center; Yonto, guai-d; Owens, halfback; Eamsberger, fullback.—Jimmy Bnitz 
football and track. His older brother, The "B" squad finishes the season with a 38-13 triumph over Michigan State Marty, played with the Cleveland Rams. in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS Headache Office 
By JIM CLEMENS Nine Games—^Final Statistics 

This is the story of the least pub­licized members of Notre Dame's vast Touch Points After Times athletic organization. This is the story Player Downs Touchdown Points Carried Net Yds Gained Average of an industrious group of persons who 
•
 handled most of the headaches but re-Sitko 3 0 18 54 346 6.407 ceived none of the glory for the success Simmons 2 0 12 36 229 6.361 achieved by the Fighting Irish in the Gompers 3 0 18 51 279 5.3 , hectic football season of 1946. This is Mello 6 0 36 61 307 5.0 the story of what goes on in the Notre Cowhig 2 0 12 40 199 5.0 Dame ticket office. Lixingstone 2 0 12 40 191 4.8 Although the football season is actual-Luiack 1 0 6 23 108 4.7 ly ^j^^y ^f ^^j-gg months duration in the 

T.
 Brennan 6 0 36 74 329 4.4 f^Y[, it is a year-round proposition in the Panelli 4 0 24 58 265 4.6 ticket office. As soon as,the moleskins Swistowicz 0 0 0 41 186 4.5 are put away in early December, the McGee 3 0 18 21 250 11.9 ticket staff under the expert supervision ^^^^ 2 0 12 28 105 3.8 of Ulr Robert Cahill, the ticket sales Rattei-man 0 0 0 4 24 ' 6.0 manager, begins work for the next sea-LeCluyse 0 0 0 3 -9 -3.0 5^^ go^^ j^jne months away. Zalejski 2 0 12 14 154 11.0 ,_ ... ,. ^ , , Smith 0 0 0 6 39 6.5 Mailing lists are preened and new McGurk 0 0 0 4 7 1.8 lists made up for the next season s Tripucka 0 0 0 1 -6 -6.0 ^^^^^ ^^ T *^^ applications of fans who Ashbaugh 0 0 0 2 -10 -5.0 supported the games the previous sea-Agnone 0 0 0 5 13 2.6 ^«"- ^^^ ^^"^l ^^™^' ^U^^'-'^l } ' f^" T -D n n n -. -, i A ways an exception since this is virtually 

J.
 Brennan 0 0.-0 1 1 1.0 , j ^ ^, , • j j; • j j? 4.1, Coutre 0 0 0 2 11 5.5 closed to the alumm and friends of the Slovak 1 0 6 1 18 18.0 University XN^O annually buy up Notre 7.-,,,, -in n A A A A Dame's allotment of tickets the day the 


^iiiy 1 0 b 0 0 u.u , _,, -i-1-i i. 1­
Skoglund 1 0 6 0 0 0.0 sale opens. These mailing lists must be g^j^ , Q g Q • Q Q Q accurate so that girls employed as extra Earley rrrrZrZ Z O 31 31 O 0 o".0 help in early spring can, with very little 
instruction, type up the envelopes. TOTALS 40 31 271 570 3036 5.3 Around April, literature as well as 
—— — application blanks for the following sea­son's games, are prepared. All told there are twenty-seven different kinds of ap­
•= plication blanks for a nine game sched­^ ^ i . £ •% ule, since the alumni, season ticket hold­| t S-E §" S ><'B §T3 S^S gia'S ^ ers, and general public each receive a Player || ll i| -I i |-1 1% | l 1-^ €1 different set of blanks. 
. Once the literature and application Lujack 100 49 8 5 .490 778 0 0 2 31 blanks are received from the printers, Eatterman 18 8 2 1 .444 114 0 O i l ^^ey are placed in the appropriate en-Tripucka 5 1 0 0 .200 19 0 0 0 0 velopes and sent to Notre Dame alumni 
T. Brennan 0 0 0 0 .000 0 10 154 3 18 ^nd fans all over the country in suffi-Zilly 0 0 0 0 .000 0 8 152 0 0 c.\ent time for returns to be made when Skoglund 0 0 0 0 .COO 0 6 76 1 ? the ticket sale opens on August 1st. A Hart 0 0 0 0 .000 0 5 107 0 0 priority is set on season ticket informa-Swistowicz 0 0 0 0 .000 0 4 70 0 0 tion, and the prices are determined by Cowhig 0 0 0 0 .000 0 4 42 0 0 the Business Manager of Athletics, sub-Martin 0 0 0 0 .000 0 4 37 0 0 ject to the approval of the Director of Sitko 0 0 0 0 .000 0 3 55 2 3 Athletics, for season ticket sale closes Livingstone 0 0 0. 0 .000 0 3 38 0 0 earlier than that of the alumni and gen-Mello 0 0 0 0 .000 0 2 40 0 0 eral public, since the latters' allotment Simmons 0 0 0 0 .000 0 2 43 1 8 of tickets is determined by the demand Zalejski 0 0 0 0 .000 0 2 24 1 20 for season tickets. Limont 0 0 0 0 .000 0 2 7 0 0 Several days prior to August 1st, the Gompers 0 0 0 0 .000 0 1 35 0 0 application blanks begin to pour into the Ashbaugh 0 0 0 0 .000 0 1 29 1 38 office and then the real work begins. Kosikowski 0 0 0 0 .000 0 1 2 0 0 Each blank is checked and processed Strohmeyer 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 3 19 through to the files where it remains Brown 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 1 2 until it is time to fill the order. Daily 
— — -— — reports are made up by Mary Monahan TOTALS 123 58 10 6 .471 911 58 911 16 147 and posted in a record book so an ac­——— —— • (Continued on Page 45) 
Knute Rockne ^'^'^^^ ^^^ 
Knute Rockne was born on March 4, 1888, in Voss, Nonvay. His dad was a carriage maker who came to Chica­go for the Columbian Exposition of 1893 and later sent for his family to settle there. The boy went to Chicago public schools and after graduation wanted to go to college, but his family was too poor to send him. He had to work for five years in the post office to make enough money. In 1910 he enrolled at Notre Dame. By 1913 his name had spread across the nation, and when he died in 1931 he had become one of the most renowned figures in American sports. Today, 15 years after his tragic passing, they're still talking about him, this fellow Knute Rockne, and his spirit still hovers over the University he piloted to world-wide fame. 
But Knute didn't go to college to play football:'He was older than his fellow students, and most of all he sought an education. He was a shining light in chemistry. Some say he was a better trackman than a football player. Neverthe­less, he teamed up with Gus Doi-ais in 1913 and helped forward-pass a favorite Anny team to ignominious defeat. The name Notre Dame became associated. with the name Rockne, and today no one mentions the one without thinking of the other. 
After graduation in 1914, Rockne was offered a teaching post in the Chemistry Department, with a chance to coach football on the side. He took the job and manned an Ohio girl, Bonnie Skiles. Within a few years, this hai'd-driving Norwegian had become head football coach. A keen student of human emotion and a great showman, he started Notre Dame rolling to fame on the gridiron. With a squad pre­dominated by Irish boys, he coined the nickname "Fighting Irish" and dressed them in kelly green jerseys. He turned the maneuvers of chorus gii'ls into the famous Rockne shift. In 1924 he came up with a backfield that Grantland Rice named the "Four Horsemen" as the speedy quai-tet of Ci'ow­ley, Layden, Stuhldreher and Miller rode roughshod over Army. In 1924, 1929, and 1930, his teams won national championships, yet few times were they badly beaten or 
beaten often in one season. Notre Dame had become the Mecca of the football world and mostly because of Knute Rockne. 
There are many stories about the famous "Rock." If all wei-e collected they would fill volumes. It is enough to look at his record as a coach and builder of men. He set a good example for his boys to follow, and followed their good exam­ple of attending Mass on a game day by becoming a Catholic. In 1931, he boarded a plane for California, but the ill-fated air-craft plummeted to the ground in Kansas, carrying Knute to his death. From the President of the United States to the poorest newsboy, there came signs of mourning and sorrow. 
And so down through 15 years, Rockne-trained coaches have endeavored to keep instilling the ideals of the famous coach in the minds of their players. Notre Dame is still the Mecca of college football, and its greatest coach, Knute Rockne, is still as much a part of Notre Dame as the Golden Dome. When the going gets tough, on the football field or out in the world, Notre Dame men feel that the "Rock" is up there pulling for them, because he truly believed that "what though the odds be great or small, old Notre Dame will win over all." Notre Dame will always be proud of him, this man who spread her name to world-wide fame—^thia 
Knute Rockne shows the tackles how they 
fellow, Knute Rockne! 
should go through—1926. 

himself. Some booths are so small that by the time we all get in them the mice 
I SPOT FOR BILL STERN 
have to run around hunch-backed. At By DAVE WARNER the Yankee Stadium there are no booths 
The engineer has just killed the cheers and band music. Into his microphone Bill Stern, full of zeal and ready to spiel, begins his Saturday afternoon chore, "Good afternoon ladies and gentle­men wherever you may be. This is Bill Stern speaking from the Sleepy Hollow Stadium in East Hernia, South Dakota, where the National Broadcasting Com­pany has swung its microphones to bring you a play-by-play description of today's game. And here are the starting line­ups." And here, also, is the point where the spotter begins to chew the pencil into splinters. 
This was my second season as a No­tre Dame spotter for NBC's sports di­rector and announcer. Bill Stern. I was first assigned the .lob by Walt Kennedy, former publicity chief at Notre Dame, currently holder of at least five respon­sible jobs in the sports world. My first assignment could not have been more of a thriller. As a wai-m-up I would much rather have preferred something like Notre Dame vs. Slippery Rock Teachers. Instead, I plunged into the spectacularly disputed 1945 Mexican stand-off between Navy and Notre Dame which ended 6-6 before 82,000 in Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. That head-liner—the wrestling match on the goal line bettveen Skip Minisi and Phil Colella happened so quickly and suddenly that I had to judge from Phil's characteristics that it was he. Luckily, for once, I guessed right! Usual­ly a spotter has plenty of time to check a player by number, but there are those times when it pays to be familiar with a player's characteristics. How he stands, crouches, and runs. Plays like that of Colella's can make or break an announcer. 
Spotting for Stern is all done with the naked eye, and this, too, can present a problem since broadcasting booths in various stadiums run the gamut from the lower mezzanine section to the rear wall. For any Stern broadcast I and all other assistants must be at the booth at least two hours before the kick-off. This is done to eliminate jittei-s on the part of the announcer who cannot be bothered worrying whether or not his assistants will be there in time for the game. Stern, himself, is one of the few announcers I have seen who arrives so far in advance of game time. If the game starts at two, invariably he will be there at noon tack­ing up biographical, color, and penalty data. Besides memoiuzing names, num­ber's and positions of all players, the spotter must have tongue-tip informa­tion in such statistics as weights, heights, ages, home towns, scores and whether 
that tiny speck on the gi-idiron below talking to Lujack is Frank Leahy or Bernie Crimmins. For information I owe a great vote of thanks to Notre Dame's football publicity man, Charlie Callahan and his assistants, Helene Crockett, Jim Regan, Jim Brutz, Jack Kennedy, Chick Beaulieu, Pete Brown and Tom Tierney. 
Stei'n's booth is usually the most man­ned of any. As the game starts it takes on the appearance of Macy's basement during the Christmas rush. Inside, thei-e is a spotter from each school, a statis­tician, an engineer, a Western Union man, and a producer in addition to Stern for football broadcasting; we divide a box seat with the patrons. At the 1945 Army-Notre Dame tilt movie eyeful Jinx Falkenberg was in touching distance of the NBC mike. Stern recognized her, leaned over and jokingly whispered, "Now you will find out what a liar I am. Don't expect to hear the same game you see out there today." 
My most disastrous job of spotting-was turned in during the Illinois game of 1946 when that Sitko to Zilly faux pas lateral cropped up. The game I enjoyed spotting the most so far was the score­less tie Donnybrook against the Army of the same season. 
I Spot for Connie Desmond 
By TONY EARLEY 
To the residents of the umpire-baiting borough, whose City Hall is Ebbets Field, and whose Chamber of Commerce is the Brooklyn Dodger baseball team, the name Connie Desmond has a familiar ring. During the summer months Connie Desmond and Red Barber team up to keep the anxious Dodger fans up to date with the daily antics of their \iapi"ed let-able baseball club. 
Connie is a comparative ne\vconier to the big time field of sports announcers, but so great has been his success at Brooklyn that the Mutual Broadcasting System decided to give him a liing at football commentating. On successive Saturday afternoons this fall, Desmond has scooted across the country to cover some of the top gridiron contests of the season. 
My first meeting with Connie Desmond was at Iowa City where this year's high-riding Irish met the University of Iowa's Hawkeyes in what was slated to be a crucial test for the men of Leahy. Desmond was covering the game for Mu­tual on a coast to coast hookup. The game was the football attraction oh that Saturday's card and the pressure was on any announcer who had been assigned to cover it. Desmond took it in stride and his chief concern before the kick-off was to bring an accurate and detailed account of the game to the listening audience. Too many of the sports an­nouncei-s that I have spotted for have concerned themselves with building up their broadcast on unrelated chatter, which is most distracting and serves only to confuse the fans. I was impressed by Connie's familiarity with both clubs. He knew most of the players' numbers from memory, which lessened his dependence 
on the spotter and enabled him to de­
scribe the play as it took place. 
His system of spotting is fair but cer­tainly not the best I've worked with. Desmond uses two large pieces of white cardboard, one for each school. On these, he has the teams three and four deep in every position. In the case of Notre Dame, the board is orientated so that the names on the board correspond with the exact way the team lines up on the field. For example, the names of the first string linemen are written in pencil across the top of the boai-d and below each name is the name of his substitutes. Backing up the line are names of the backs arranged in a "T" formation. Spe­cially constructed pins are used to indi­cate which players are in the game at the time. When a substitution is made, the pin above the man's name leaving the game is removed and placed over the name of the man replacing him. When the substitution occurs, the spotter, who is seated right next to the commentator, merely taps him on the arm to indicate a change and the announcer relates the change to the listening audience. 
Desmond is new to football broad­casting. Since he spends most of the year describing baseball games in which there are often intervals without action he fails at times to give his audience the thrills and excitement that accompany most of the play. But in my opinion, a football announcer's number one attri­bute is accuracy and next his ability to transfer some of the thrills and excite­ment from the scene to the listening audience. 
If I could choose my spotting assign­ments, I would cast my vote for the man from Flatbush. In another year he'll be up there with the best of them. 
Clashmore Mike 11 
Just a year ago, a fi-isky little pup only six months old, hopped about the unfamiliar surroundings outside the of­fice of Coach Hugh Devore, entirely unaware that he was about to become a very important member of the great Notre Dame family. Meanwhile his mas­ter, James McGarraghy of Chicago, was inside presenting Coach Devore with that wide-eyed pup's oificial pedigree and papers of ownership. Since Clashmore Mike I, Notre Dame's mascot of 11 years, had died On S eptember 17th, last year and was later buried in the Stadi­um, this wiry Irish terrier was about to take his place as the fighting symbol of the Fighting Msh. 
Irish mascots can be traced back only as far as 1924, when at the start of the season a squatty, ferocious-looking bull­dog waddled onto the field, a football clenched in his teeth as the cocky favor­ite of a National Championship team. Some years later, after the Bulldog came an Irish terrier, Shawn Rue, who lasted until 1931. That year the team had a rather rough tiine of it, and after an unsuccessful season little Shawn Eue mysteriously disappeared. . . . Then in 1935 began the dynasty of Clashmore Mike, the name given to the new mascot by Mr. Dan Hanley, who was inspired by the name of a famous Irishman. Mike the First was presented to Head Coach Elmer Layden by a Chicago kennel own­er, who turned him over to Dan Hanley for training. 
With the aid of a collapsible bar, Mike was tavight to jump two feet but as the weeks passed the bar was raised little by little. Mike had a little circus blood in him and soon afterwards he learned to leap over high hurdles. He had' a way of making his jumps look spectacular to give the crowd a little bigger thrill and himself a little louder applause. A vic­torious encounter with the Pitt panther marked Mike's debut. Clashmore, in a lively mood that day, quickly went after the strange over-stuffed cat from the East and to the great enjoyment of fans who packed the Notre Dame stadium, the fighting little Ii-ish mascot made the fur fly. It wasn't long before a worried student wearing the panther hide made a hasty retreat to the Pitt bench. 
He was noted for his fracases with the Ai-my mule, and having a paiticular distaste for the sea and all that goes with it, the Navy game each year was the scene of a hard fought tussle be­tween the scrappy terrier and Bill, the 
By CHARLES CARROLL CARTER 
nautical atmosphere, strained at his leash, aching for another crack at the goat. Suddenly an accident occurred— or perhaps it wasn't. Mr. Hanley tripped, dropping the leash, and Mike raced in the direction of Bill. Dust flew as the two. mascots captured the crowd's at­tention. It was dog and goat in a battle royal. But the goat soon retired from the fray, and the game little terrier trotted off happily with another victory to his credit. 
It was into this colorful family of courageous canine favorites of the Irish that Clashmore Mike II was about to step as Notre Dame's most loved and cherished animal—her mascot. 
His pedigree says he is actually a "Shannon Invader," his father being known as "Aristocrat Rumhound" and his mother a classy little canine called "Shannon View Peggy." But when he became a member of the Irish family, he was named the Second of a proud and worthy Notre Dame heritage — Clash-more Mike. 
"Mike" made his first public appear­ance as the new Irish mascot before a packed house at the Illinois game last season. No sooner had he started to jump about ths sidelines, straining at the leashes which kept him from snap­ping at "refs" and all others who may stand in way of an N.D. victory, than did he become a beloved part of the team. At all the home games as well as the student trip each year, he is seen with his gold-trinmied, bright green blanket with a monogram on each side; his m.outh wde open, a wet tong^ie hang­ing out and eyes strained so as not to miss a thing. But if ever there is troxi­ble he has an assortment of angry growls ready to let loose, as well as many a bark if things don't meet with his approval. 
Unlike most canis familiaris, Miks is a great deal more than a dog. All one has to do is watch him at one of the games and you will see, if you haven't already, that he is an ardent rooter in­stilled with an urge to fight and a desire to win. He is a symbol of support and loyalty to those on the field from those in the stands. And, too, we have to give him credit for being a great show­man. Possibly you saw him chase that Army mule all over Yanke Stadium a few weeks ago, snapping at flying hoofs and letting the world know he didn't like horse meat. And then when the mule turned around to give him a run for his money, what did Mike do? He spread his four feet apart, let loose with a ferocious snai-1 and wouldn't budge T Mike is Irish and like Fighting Irish he doesn't give ground, as the Cadets later found out. 
renowned  Navy  goat.  One  Saturday  Clashmore Mike, after snarling at the animals in the band's half-time circus pres­ 
afternoon  in  1941, Mike not liking  the  entation at the Pitt game, makes friendly overtures toward the elephant  
43  

^luMi AliA Se^ujie^ S^^ ^-^'^^^(^ 
There is a school of historical thought which claims that history is written, not in terms of migrations of peoples, wars, or great social movements, but rather by the heroes whose lives have been mileposts along the great highway of time. So, through the corridors of tha centuries, march Alex­ander, Caesar, Gregory the Great, Jefferson, Napoleon, and Abraham Lincoln. 
Likewise on the gridiron, padded heroes stand out to mark the passing parade in America's Saturday sport. Football was written for history by Hinkey, Thorpe, Knute Rockne, the Four Horsemen, George Gipp and Tommy Hannon. 
But as historians are sometimes apt to do, just recogni­tion bypasses the little man: the schoolmaster who instructed St. Thomas, the guy who shod Paul Revere's horse, the fel­low who carried the message to Garcia. 
So too in football, hero worshipping sports writers too often pass up the very men who are holding the hero aloft, the guys who are making him step for his position, the scrubs who, in their own rugged way, develop the finished product in the blast-furnaces of tody-contact and the cruci­bles of daily scrimmages. 
Here at Notre Dame we have probably the greatest foot­ball squad ever to don equipment. So deep is the talent that sports scribes have not failed to claim that, were they at other colleges or universities not so favorably endowed with manpower, some of our Bee boys would be holding first-string varsity positions, and making the local headlines. Let lis look, for a moment then, at the lesser luminaries. 
Just where do you think Johnny Lujack would be if he wasn't being pushed by the greatest collection of rifle-armed quarterbacks in the nation? Even teammates agree Frank Tripucka is as good a passer if not tettei% and certainly ex­cels in kicking. The deft ball-handling of Geoi-ga Eatterman, plus his bull-whip passing arm, would land him a first-string position at nearly any other school in the country, with the possible exception of Army. From Mt. Carmel High in New York is Geri-y Begley, an excellent passer, while Rhode Is­land's Billy Heyvvood backs up his pitching "vsath fancy step­ping and slambang defensive play. Roger Brown was no slouch as a highschooler in Chicago, and Dick Leous looms as a promising performer, needing only experience to smooth out the rough edges. As far back as the quarterbacks go there's talent and promise, Johnny McMahon and Dick Sois­son rounding out a roster of field-generals which any coach would think impossible to accumulate at one school at one time. Lujack had to be good to stay ahead of this pack of grid strategists and sharpshcoters. 
Cecil Isbell of Purdue went so far as to say he'd settle for any of our fourth-string halfbacks. "We go him one bet­ter: we say go as deep as you like at the halfback spot and you'll find terrific ballcarriers. Everybody knew Livingstone, Sitko, Brennan, and Ashbaugh were tried and true. But they didn't know lowrunning, hard-hitting Mike Swistouncz was going to move into the inner circle as a mere frosh, nor did they expect Billy Gompers to take off like a branded billy goat every time he got his hands on the ball. Were he com­pletely recovered from his injuries chances are.Floyd Sim­mons, loaded with drive and speed, would be one of the top running backs in the nation. Despite hampering leg trouble, Gerry Cowhig is still the hardest driving ball-packer in the outfit. Ask Anny! One little guy they couldn't keep down was Coy McGee, who rose from the humble Bees through his fierce aggressiveness and breakaway speed. Pound for pound there isn't a harder-hitting back in the squad than Emil Slovak, who races through, around and over opponents like a hopped-up jallopy. Jimmy Brennan has been content to let brother Terry collect the clippings this year, but potentially Jimmy is a whizkid, clammy-handed under passer and a tricky prancer in the open field. Fans may have to wait \intil next year, but Coutre, Owens, and Zalejski are bound to come through. Everyone knows Freddie Earley can boot 'em, but few realize Leahy has more than one goal-kicking artist, among them Louie Street, upon whom the task will probably fall should Earley fail or falter. Deep as you go are half­backs galore: Byi'ne, Coi'dasco, Keenan, Kenefick, Mortell and Saggau, all biding their time until the trumpet sounds for their great day. Lancaster Smith is not only the team's poet laureate, but one of the niftiest leather luggers in the neighborhood. Hanlon is another capable pei-former yet un­tapped while Wilke, Wise and Sullivan round out the list of ball-carrying journeymen. Leahy isn't hiding a lamp under a' bushel; he's got a whole raft of arc-lights under a carload of topnotch talent. 
When old grads heard that Jimmy Mello and Corny Clatt were back in the fold there Avas much jubilation. Little did they realize that a sheiky sophomore, a burly, bull-necked Italian from Morristown, New Jersey, by the name of John Panelli, was going to make the nation's Saturday listeners sit up and ask. Who is this new Irish fullback? Panelli's de­fensive work last Spring, heaped on his fine showing last fall, guaranteed him a chance to shine this year. He did, and will again. Despite his stature, Johnny Agnone plays a house-wrecking game at full, while Jim McGurk is familiar to ND fans for his stalwart backing up play and his ferocious line-
bucking. Unsung this season is Chick lannuccillo, who may well crash into the headlines as well as enemy, end-zones come the fall of '47. Built like a pill­box fortress, weighing 232 pounds, lan­nucillo, the tank that walks like a man, di-ives hard with his tremendous legs, and tacklers vow they would sooner hurl themselves in front of a runaway locomotive than try to stop the big boy. The '46 Irish were exceptionally deep at full: Creevey, LeCluyse, Boulous, Mc­Guire, Ramsberger (watch this guy!), 
Front Row: Ritter, Wilke, Wolfe, Hodiak, Connor, Carter, Lally, McGill, Reis, Boulis, Cannon; 
Sinkowitz, and Yonto backed up the var­

2nd Row: Couch, Earley Lesko, McGuire, LzPonto, Romano, Harrington, Lcous, Carr, McGuire, 
sity regulars, hot on their necks and made 

Don Begley, Dasey, Sullivan: Srd Row: Ogbum, Paszkiet, McCarty, Saggau, Soisson, McNamara, Byrnes, Keenan, Cordasko, Owens, Kenefick, Kiszeli, Curran. them step to earn their starting positions. 
Up in the line it was the same way. The best center in the land was George Strohmeyer; how eagle-eyed scribes ever passed over his magnificent performance, though injured to the limping point, in the Army game, is beyond credulity. But the Texas strongboy had to be good; back of him was the fightin'est bunch of terrors ever to assemble at one posi­tion, deeper here than at any other spot on the team. For Marty Wendell was tabbed by pre-season dopesters as a cinch All-America, Bill Walsh was last year's regular and turned in fine exhibitions of ball-snapping and defensive play every time he got in a game, and Bill Vangen, though hampered by injuries, would have been welcome at any college in the na­tion. Add Art Statuto, Aus McNichols, Harp Dougherty, Carter, Lapano, McGill, Ritter and Ogburn and you know why opponents didn't go any place through the Irish center this fall. 
At guard Coach McArdle has moulded masterpieces of immovable mass. Moose Fischer should be All-America, so should Freddie Rovai; ditto John Mastrangelo. But back of these saber-toothed play-busters were fast-rising scrappers, eager to replace the top boys, and making them dig in to hold that starting job. There was Chuck Connoi-, little broth­er of the Big Moose, Marty Brutz, Johnny Frampton, Luke Higgins, Bernie Meter, Bucky O'Connor, Tom Potter, Vince Scott, Joe Signaigo and George Tobin. What coach wouldn't drool over the prospect of any one of these characters show­ing \ip on his campus? Where, except at Notre Dame, would these men be surpassed? And that isn't all: Lally, Gillespie, Harrington, Jack Connor, Haller, and Romano man the guard posts on down the line. No matter how deep Leahy struck, he was bound to hit talented ore. 
At the tackle spot, w^here the brawny behemoths grow, no team in the nation could touch Czarobski and Moose Connor. For that matter, no college in the country could boast of a tackle combo like Sullivan and Fallon, or Urban, Cifelli or McBride. But back of them were men who elsewhere might have starred alone, but rather chose to contribute their blood, sweat and tears to the building of the best ballclub in the land. They were Bill Russell, the team's pin-up boy, Ralph McGehee, determined fighter out of Chicago, Al Zmijewsld, 210 pound frosh from Newark, New Jersey, Ken Schuster, another rough freshman, Emil Ciechanowicz, a pigskin Paul Bunyon, Ted Budynkiewicz, who ND fans will hear much more of next autumn, Johnny Glaab, injury hampered but potentially a standout, Hudak, Vellatuto, Cannon, Gaul, and Bob McBride, a rough-and-tumble ace at both guard and tackle who played bang-up games every time he got a crack at the opponents. 
Ends were numerous at Notre Dame. Last Spring coaches were moaning a dearth of picketmen, but except for Ai-my's brilliant twosome, where could our own Zilly and Martin be surpassed? Bob Skoglund, Bob Walsh, and Frank Kosikowski could make about any team in America, and have really not yet begun to show their wares. Leon Hart looks like a comer, as does Bill Wightkin, but remember too, that should anything have 'happened to our starters this fall, Leahy was well equipped with such flankers as Zeke O'Con­nor, Bill Flanagan, Paul Limont, Ray Espanan, Walt Kron­burger. Bill Michaels (keep your eye on Mike!), and Tom McCai-thy. Joe Helwig and Jim Reis are two more promising freshmen of whom much may be heard when they develop under Coach Druze. Leon Traney, end and ballcarrier too, may burst his sideline cocoon one of these days, and dislodge, some of the more highly-touted regulars. 
At every position the starting job was at the top of the ladder, with valiant scnibs and prospective AU-Americans battling for evei-y loing. There never was a champ without his trainers, spar-mates, and series of challengers to whip him on to greater heights. If we had a great team in '46, it was because the reserves drove the regulars to it. The con­tributions of the unsung subs built a champion. They gave 
(and took!) a lot. Theirs was the true Spirit of Notre Dame. 
HEADACHE OFFICE 
(Continued from Page 40) 
curate check can be made on the sales at all times and sell­outs announced at the appropriate time. Deposits are made daily with the University treasurer so the financial reports 
- are complete and up-to-date. 
In early September the tickets are re­ceived from the printers. All football tickets are checked twice by Mr. Cahill and his staff j once when they come from the printers and again when the orders are filled. Mr. Cahill fills most of the orders personally, though he is ably assisted in this respect by Harry Thil­man, assistant ticket sales manager, and George Koch, a teacher at Riley High School in South Bend, who works nights in the ticket office during the season. Tickets are mailed ten days before each game, the biggest mailing jobs being the home games and the Army game, since there is the added task of registering the latter. 
During the season just concluded the Irish played to 218,000 in four home games, establishing a new home game attendance record by shattering the pre­vious mark of 211,000 which was achiev­ed in five games. For a job well done spe­cial commendation is due the ticket office staff who contributed unstintingly of time and energy in making this a ban­
ner football year at Notre Dame. 
Cahill, Jones, and Thilman smile wryly at the Army game seating situation. 
Music by the Band 
Playing its swan song for the 1946 football season at the Southern Califor­nia game, the Notre Dame marching Band, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, finished a season full of surprises and innovations, still paraded in ancient uniforms reminiscent of cast-offs from the corner Salvation Army unit. 
Paced by returning vet Jim Kress, crack, high-stepping drum major from Dillon Hall and Detroit, Mich., the band entei-tained football fans between halves of games at home, made one trip where it showed its wares in New York's Yan­kee Stadium. Always noted for its unique formations, the band carried on the tra­dition this year by introducing a musical circus and a musical re\iew of the four seasons. 
Up to full (100 strong) size again for the first time since 1943, the march­ing band was expected to do great things. It got off to a sour start when a schedul­ed trip to Illinois was cancelled. The next Aveek, when the Irish entertained Pittsburgh at the first home game, the band showed it wasn't peeved by present­ing some novel formations and proving that it made pretty good music, although it admittedly wasn't the cream of the crop in marching technique. During the halftime of the Pittsburgh game the band formed a panther, serenaded the 
•visitors from the Smokie City with their alma mater. Then it displayed its new "four seasons" formation, which was fea­tured by the successive formation of an hour glass, accompanied by the play­ing of "Auld Lang Syne," a huge ther­mometer and the old hit "We're Having A Heat Wave," and other formations and number's proper to the sevei-al sea­sons. For this the band got deserved plaudits. 
The Pitt game also featured the first appearance of a local phenomenon, the "Forgotten Ii-ishman." Clad in the tra­ditional Kelly green of the Emerald Isle, the N.D. version of the unhappy Sad Sack cavorted on the field - during the halftime, assisted the band in its sea­sonal exhibition. Under the green hat and pantaloons was definitely non-Celtic Ealph Thorson, of Minnesota, who gam­boled like a Spring lamb at the ensuing Purdue, Army, and Northwestern games, was nowhere to be seen at the final contest with Southern Cal, appeared in­deed to have been forgotten. 
Done out of its trip to Champaign, the band did make the Army trip to New York, accredited itself well to anybody fortunate enough to have a good enough seat to see it. On the way do\yn on the 

The band forms an ND at half 
train, the band initiated its members who had not made the triji before, fol­lowing its traditional custom. No more ridiculous than other initiations, this one consisted of absurd garb for the "Gooks," foolish questions with no answers, "un­pleasantries" for failure to answer them. 
At Yankee Stadium, the band found that its seats Avere as bad as the rest of the students, was worse off still be­cause it had been separated from the rest of the students as if they had been contaminated. Put to the difficult task of matching the sleek, disciplined (and very unoriginal) West Point musical ma­chine, the band failed to come up to soldierly standards, as would have been supposed, but staged a good "Lena the Hyena" show during the half in connec­tion with its circus act. 
It received many complimentary let­ters from radio listeners. New York critics who panned it for not coming up to General Taylor's regimented boys for­got that the latter spend much of their time teaching each foot what the other is doing; 
Back home again, the band was foiled at the Northwestern game by fickle Jvi­piter Pluvius, who decided to misbehave that afternoon. Because of the inclem­ent weather, the band made a briefer appearance than usual, did manage to 
form a wildcat for visiting Northwest-ei'nites. 
The Southern California game was dedicated to the memory of the late How­ard Jones, who coached the Trojans be­fore his death in 1941. The band, in one of its best displays of the year, formed a huge "JONES" at the Southern Cal side of the field, played taps while the stands observed silence in tribute to the depai-ted coach. Ci-ossing the field, the band changed itself into 1946, saluted the end of the football season.-At the end of the game, it paraded briskly from the stadium playing the Victory March. 
Everybody who watched the band in the Stadium this fall agreed that it was making a fine comeback. Many of its members were recently returned G.I.'s who were band members for the first time or who had returned to it after prolonged absence. Jim Kress showed all comers he was no tyro, vied for twirling and fancy stepping honors with the best in the country. The band's appearance at pep rallies furthered old-time Notre Dame spirit, edified pep-rally guests. As time went on, the green squad rounded into better shape and by the end of the season its followers could see that it would soon again be a top-notcli march­ing band. They were generally pleased with the present and hopeful of the fviture.—Joe Wilcox 
 time during, the Pitt game. 
WILL DO TYPING for Students — 

BfdUiienA. piMH ilte P^ieAA. Box. Call 3-1942 between the hours of 9:30 and 4:00 P. M. 
Before the 1946 Notre Dame football team had taken the field for its first game, the nation's sports writers said the Irish had plenty of potential All-American material on hand but most of it was made up of returning servicemen. But pessimistic Frank Leahy had pa­tience with these players, and now at the end of the current season, Notre Dame has replaced Army at the top of the football parade. Congratulations to Coach Leahy, to his assistants, and to the 1946 football squad. 
Looking back over the season's games, we watched different backs come into prominence as the season progressed. In the first game of the year Emil Sitko ran wild to spark the first Notre Dame march toward pay dirt. Johnny Ltijack and Ziggy Czarobski co-captained the Irish win 26-6 at Champaign. A week later Notre Dame opened its home sea­son against Pittsburgh and pleased the home folks with a 33 to 0 win as Terry Breniian ripped through the Panther line throughout the game. Jim Mello captain­ed the Green Shirts that afternoon. 
The Boilermakers journeyed to South Bend the following week and were thor­oughly trounced by Captain Jack Zil­ly's eleven. John Panelli got his chance in this game and proved that he could carry the leather A\'ith the best of them. 
With the ol' crying towel packed neat­ly in his pocket, Frank Leahy and thirty-six of his pigskin pirates headed for Iowa City. George Connor was elected captain and he played one of his greatest games of the season against the Hawk-eyes as did Lujack, Sitko, Strohmeyer, Mastrangelo, and Martin. Before the game began, Frank announced to the reporters, "If we win this one, we'll be about the luckiest team in the country." The Irish were lucky, winning 41 to 6. 
Because of the great game John Mas­trangelo played the week before, he was destined to lead the Irish against Navy who had held them to a 6 to 6 tie last year. From out of nowhere came Floyd Simmons and Jerry Cowhig to lead the Ii-ish attack on the Middies. The Notre Darners racked up win num­ber five winning this one 28 to 0. 
The following week sports ^vl•iters from all over the country gathered in South Bend to find out what kind of a team the Irish really had. Each after­noon they wandered around Cartier By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor 
. Field looking for something to happen. And then it did—^Lujack injured his ankle. The sports pages Avere filled for the rest of the week with Lujack's con­dition. When the Irish boarded the train for New York, so did Lujack. The game of the year was almost ready to begin. Everyone was excited .. . so excited that the National Anthem wasn't played. And A\ith Army's band there too. 
Lujack and Cowhig were elected to co-captain the Fighting Irish, who were determined that they could and would stot) Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside. Ter­ry Brennan played the game of his life both on oifense and defense, but neither he nor any of the o.her Irish backs could break away for any lang gain. The best defensive game of the century was play­ed that afternoon :n Yankee Stadium and the thrilled football fans sat on the edge of their seats until the final gun sounded. The game ended •with the Army playing for jxist what it got, a score­less tie. 
Bounding back the following week, Notre Dame scored three touchdowns in the final period against the Wildcats of Northwestern to win 27 to 0. Bob Liv­ingstone and George Connor led the Irish that afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium before a sellout crowd of 56,000 fans. George Eattei-man, second-string quart­erback, engineered the first two last period scores to prove to the country that Notre Dame was deep in quarterbacks too. Emil Sitko's running was the high­light of the afternoon as he crashed through for long gains every time he carried the ball. 
The sunny south beckoned a week later and Notre Dame was gone before you could say Blanchard and Davis. Paxil Limont, who graduated from Holy Cross High School in New Orleans, was elect­ed to co-captain the Golden Pants along Avith Joe Signaigo. Ernie Zalejski, South Bend boy, proved that the advance notices which had been published about him were not so much space fillers. He broke through for two scores before he injured his knee, shelving him for the remainder of the season. Notre Dame, 41; Tulane, 0. 
With only one game left to be played before the Irish could hang up another undefeated season Coach Leahy was 
(Continued on Page 49) 
MRS. KELLER 
Parker SI Pens Eversharp CA Engineering 
Supplies Desk Lamps 
Book Ends 
Servicing of Typewriters 
Office Engineers 
116 S. Michigan St. 
Compliments fo fhe Team 
from 
HANS-RINTZSCH LUGGAGE SHOP 
LEATHER GOODS HAND BAGS LUGGAGE GIFTS 
HANS/^INTZSCH 
138 N. lyGchigcin 

Hail the Fighting Irish . . . 1946 National Gridiron Champs! 
ROBERTSON'S congratulate you on your achievement 
Smoke Your Notre Dame Colors 
the BOWL \% BLUB 
the STEM is GOLD 
A METAL PIPE IN BLUE AND GOLD COLORS 
The most unusual pipe in the world . . . you'll treasure its flying colors in your pipe collection for years to come . . . Bowl made of alloy for lightness . . . fitted with genuine IMPORTED BRIAR INNER BOWL for that cool, sweet smoke . . . Barrel finished in gold for beauty. The original Gridiron Pipe will be seen on the college campus nationally . . . soon. 
A suggestion: Why not send an original Gridiron Pipe to one of the thousands of former graduates .. . as a gift in a gift box .. . he will cherish it for life. 
MEN'S SHOP —FIRST FLOOR 
smmm 
Splinters from the Press Box the other side of Notre Dame Stadium. As the nights grow longer, sports 
(Continued from Page 47) And it might have come to pass if Texan fans the country over will be taUdng* about this year's Notre Dame football 
Coy McGee, the 160-pound halfback, 
tossed for a loss by a familiar tackier, team. Monday morning quarterbacks Mill 
hadn't decided to do something about it. 
Bad Cold. But Marty Brill came through 
play and replay the Notre Dame-Army with the towel treatment and line coach The first time that he carried the ball he game until sweat streams down their Ed Krause took over the reins. Bob gained 43 yards only to see the Irish cheeks. But here at Notre Dame we Skoglund and Fred Eovai were elected lose the ball a second later on a fumble. know that Frank Leahy deserves all the to captain the Notre Dame charges The second time he took the ball he de­praise the football world can give him 
against Southern California. The Tro­cided that if the Irish were going to for building up our 1946 team in so jans held the Irish scoreless in the first score, he would have to go all the way, short a time. Congratulations, National period and the word "upset" splashed so he cut in and out on his 78-yard jaunt Champions. 
across the lips of the Trojan fans on to pay dirt. He scored again in the third period after Southern California had marked up six points and the TD made Shaeffer Pen and 
it 19 to 6. The Trojan touchdown was 
LOST: Elgin Watch the first score that any team has made against the Irish since the Iowa game on October 26th. Final score: Notre Dame, Return to 302 Sorin—REWABO! 

GOOD WORK 

26; Southern California, 6. 
TEAM! 

Congratulations to the 1946 Team 
FLOWERS FOR DANCES 
STORE HOURS 

AND ALL OCCASIONS 
Tues.-Sat. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m. Monday — open till 8:30 p. m. Flowers wired anywhere 
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY 
114 So. Michigan St. Phone 3-8227 
Ellsworth's CAMERAS AND Precious Perfumes 
PHOTOGRAPHIC 

Highest tribute you can pay a woman . . . exqiiisite fragrances, worldly and innocent to long outlast Christinas! 
SUPPLIES 
2.75 to 20:00 

Cosmetics . . . Main Floor 
Ctrtsitmasi Carbsi 
With your favorite Photo 
on each card. 

Paris 
Ault's photo service in the Cafeteria 532 NORTH NILES AVENUE 
CLEVINING Pressing While You Wait M&H^
AULT Camerq Shop One of Our Specialties: 
Cold weather ahead .. . Topcoats and Overcoats
Opposite the Conrtfaonse 

beautifully cleaned and pressed. 
122 South Main St. 

Conveniently located at Phone 3-5041 
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE 
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe 
WEAKENED AT THE WALDORF 
By EDWARD J. SNYDER 
The student trip, \nctim of wartime transportation curtailments, made its peacetime resurrection Nov. 8, as 1,200 Notre Dame men boarded special trains for New York City to witness the "battle of the century" between the unbeaten Cadets of West Point and the vengeful, unbeaten Ii-ish. 

It was like old times to see the spe­cial trains chugging up the St. Mary's siding and a horde of suitcase-laden stu­dents boarding them. Holy Cross Gram­mar School students, nuns and priests gave an impromptu sendoff vnth cheer­ing and Beat Army banners Avaving to the departing travelers. 
Scarcely had the trip got underway when the band began initiating its new members. Sandwich hucksters filled the aisle, but their product contained ham, and being Friday, their sales lagged badly. At different stops, the travelers made grabs for newspapers to see what progress had been achieved toward the healing of Johnny Lujack's ailing ankle. 
Unlike most trains, the Blue and Gold specials arrived at Grand Central Sta­tion ahead of schedule. The 1,200 stu­dents disembarked and midst yawns thundered a Beat Army cheer through the massive terminal. Rev Joseph A. Ke­hoe, C.S.C, prefect of discipline and com­mander-in-chief of the expedition, led his band of travelers to St. Agnes Church, where he celebrated mass. 
Then the mad rush for sleeping ac­commodations began. Even those lucky holders of reservations found that they were skating on thin ice as tip-hungry hotel clerks formed habits of losing res­ervations. While the at-home easterners visited old haunts, the others viewed the wonders of New York City ^vith open-mouthed awe. But sight-seeing tours had to be cut short because of the early kickoif time. 
Shortly before 1 o'clock the grey-clad, mechanically-precisioned Coi'ps of Ca­dets marched into Yankee Stadium to take their seats in the elevated section of the lower grandstand on the 50 yard line. The Notre Dame men also found themselves on the 50 yard line, but minus any elevation. As one mortified spectator put it, "They gave us the Army's seats; namely, the trenches." With a maximum of neck craning and seat standing, part of the game was visible. It ended in a scoreless tie causing both student bodies to wonder which should celebrate. Neith­er took the initiative, but regardless, the police dismantled both goal posts before the game had ended to dispel any temp­tations either side might have had. 
Saturday night in New York was a little different than any other Saturday night. The Great White Way was lighted in all its brilliance and after the game, the SPATNC-tagged Notre Dame men made a hurried jump on the Manhattan Merry-Go-Eound. Som e visited the swankier clubs, a few were lucky enough to find tickets for stage plays, others tried the movies and a good sized group anchored at thirst-quenching ports. The night came and went with Herculean speed. It was time for bed, if you had a bed to sleep in. 

The i-eturn trip got underway shortly before midnight Sunday. It was less eventful than the trip from South Bend. Eveiyone was tired after a big weekend in a big city. The talkative fellows, whose experience-telling kept many awake coming to New York, were slowed down to a whisper. 
No one was waiting with band and cheering throng Avhen the Blue and Gold trains reached their destination. Only nature responded with a typical South Bend welcome. It was raining. 
The Handmaiden of Style Is Quality 
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc. 
Custom Tailors and Clothiers 
11514- 117^4 N. Main (Upstairs) ADLER-ROCHESTER Clothing South Bend, Indiana 
Grade A Milk -'-At Its Best 
National Milk Company 
921 S. Louise St. South Bend, Indiona 
Phone 4-2778 
306 E. 10th Street Michigan City, Indiana 
Pftone 750 
Typing Done 
TERM PAPERS, MANUSCRIPTS, PRECIS Typing- done ten cents per page (double' space). Carbon copies one cent each. Paper furnished. 
W. J. ^VISSEL, 326 Badin 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE TEAM 
ZIPPERS 
REPAIRED AND REPLACED 
[RATHER OR CLOTB 
JACKETS 
New Zippers Installed CkkUars, Cuffs, IVaistbands and Linings Replaced 
RE-WEAVIKG 
ALL TYPE DAMAGES 
CLOBE REPAIR 
SERVICE 313 Piatt BIdg.. Cor. Uayne * Mich. South Bend. ind. 
Candies Restaurant 
CONGRATULATIONS IRISH! 
For 45 years THE PHILADELPHIA has been at the service of Notre Dame men and their guests. 
116 N. Michigan St. 
Ice Cream Pastries 

David Van Walloce, although living in Detroit, still manages to see most Noire Dame home gomes. 
SNITE AND VAN WALLACE 
Living Examples of the Spirit of Nofre Dame 
You don't have to be hale to be a hearty ND rooter. Two of the heartiest in a hearty fraternity are Fred B. Snite and David Van Wallace; both are al­most completely paralyzed and unable to get about by themselves. You've seen them in the stadium on football week­ends—Fred in his house trailei'-like ve­liicle, in the iron lung which he brought into the public limelight, and Van Wal­lace in his ambulance, both parked on the sidelines watching the game—Fred through a specially built mirror and Van from his cot. Despite their great handi­caps, both men see all the Notre Dame home games they can, listen to away games by radio and follow the fortunes of the Fighting Irish through thick, and would follow them through thin if they waned. 
Fi*ed B. Snite, scion of a wealthy Chi­cago financier, graduated from Notre Dame in the spring of 1933. Two years later he was ready to enter his father's business, but to celebrate the event prop­erly, the elder Snite took his family, Ter­ry Dillon, one of Fred's classmates at ND, and Miss Teresa Larkin of Dayton, Ohio, on a world cruise. Snite was to enter the Chicago loan firm upon his return. But things didn't work out that way ;f ate had smiled in another direction. In China, Fred Snite was suddenly taken ill while on a plane trip to Peiping with 
Dillon. Taken to a Peiping hospital after precious time had been lost and after a local physician had misdiagnosed his ail­ment, Snite was pronounced critically ill with the dreaded poliomyletis, or infan­tile paralysis. Fortunately the only "iron lung" in China was at that time in Peiping. Snite, unable to speak or breathe without artificial aid was placed in the lung, and little hope was held for his recovery. 
However, the doctors didn't reckon with Suite's pluck. With splendid dis­regard for cynical predictions, Snite re­mained alive and within a few months he was not only talking again, but was speaking Chinese almost as fluently as a native. He never complained about his plight, but accepted the will of God phil­osophically. In 1937, after his case had been making the headlines for a year, Snite was returned by boat to the United States. The following year he was again watching Notre Dame football. He mar­ried Miss Teresa Larkin, and their fam­ily now includes three daughters. Fred is presently able to spend a few hours a day outside his lung, and walks by means of a special contrivance. He has made steady progress over a period of ten years despite a series of heart at­tacks, but it is considered doubtful that he will ever regain full health. He spends his summers in his Chicago suburban 

Fred Snite views the Pitt game while lying in the iron lung. 
home, his winters at the family winter home in Florida, where he is a racing fan. He is also a crack bridge player, di­rects the play b y use of his mirror. He often plays tournament bridge. At foot­ball games, he watches the game from a spot directly behind the goalposts. 
Less well-known but even more severe­ly handicapped is David Van Wallace, of Mt. Clemens, Mich. Van attended Notre Dame in the fall of 1923 and the spring of 1924. That summer he suffered a broken neck in a diving accident and has been almost completely paralyzed since. Like Snite, he was given small chance for recovery at first, was not expected to survive the accident because of its al­most fatal nature. His unflagging cour­age after, severe disheartening relapses pulled him through. 
Before the war, the Notre Dame Club of Detroit planned to send Van, a deeply religious Catholic, to Lourdes, the world-famous pilgrimage of France. The club raised funds for this purpose, but the advent of the war forced postponement of the trip. 
Van has never married, and for many years he has conducted an insurance business from his Mt. Clemens home. Last spring, campus students contribut­ed enough money to buy Van a new cot, since his old one had worn out. While he realizes the extent of his misfortune, he doesn't brood over it, and has managed to live happily and usefully in spite of it. 
Although Van's injury prevented him from graduating from Notre Dame, Van follows the team's fortune as avidly as if he'd been here for eight years. While the Eockne Memorial was being built. Van organized and promoted a Detroit "Buy-a-brick" drive to raise funds for the building. 
^icmon UAtttetany 
Excellence in glasses is a matter of pre­cision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes. 
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405 

BLOCK BROTHERS 
The Diamond House of South Bend 
• 
JEWELERS TO 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
for over 25 years 
^ BLOCK BROS. 
COR MICHIGAN i WASHINGTON 

Arrow always gives you a run for your money... B 
We know that the college man of 1946, especially the veteran, is interested in completing his education as quickly and as economically as possible. 
For real value -\- highest quality in shirts, ties, underwear and sports shirts, you can save money by buying reasonably priced, long wearing Arrow prod­ucts. We have the proof. 
MAX ADLER CO. 
ON THE CORNER... MICmGAN & WASHINGTON 
•AXROIVSHIRTS & TIES­
NOTRE DAME ALL-TIME FOOTBALL RECORD 
Year  AVon  JMSt  Tie<1  1  Year  Won  Ltist  Tied  Y'ear  AVon  liOSt  Tie»l  \"ear  AVon  lA>St  Tjert  
1887  0  1  0  1903  8  0  1  1917  6  1  1  1931  6  <>  1  
1888  1  2  «  1904  3  3  0  1918  3  1  2  1932  7  O  0  
188.9  1  0  0  1905  5  4  0  1919**  9  0  0  1933  3  3  1  
1892  1  0  1  1906  6  1  0  1920**  9  0  0  1934  6  3  0  
1893  4  0  0  1907  6  0  X  1921**  10  1  0  1935  7  1  1  
1894  3  2  1  1908  8  1  0  1922  8  1  1  1936**  6  2  1  
1895  3  1  n  1909  7  0  1  1923  9  1  0  1937**  6  2  1  
1896  4  3  fl  1910  4  1  1  1924*  10  0  0  1938**  8  1  0  
1897  4  1  1  1911  6  0  :;  1925  7  2  1  1939  7  2  0  
1898  4  2  0  1912  7  «  0  1926  9  1  0  1940  7  o  0  
1899  6  3  1  1913  7  0  0  1927  7  1  1  1941  8  0  1  
1900  6  3  1  1914  5  2  0  1928  5  4  0  1942  7  2  «>  
1901  8  1  1  1915  7  1  0  1939*  9  0  0  1943*  9  1  0  
1902  5  2  1  1916  8  1  0  1930*  10  0  0  1944  8  o  0  
1945  7  2  1  
*X"ational  Champioiijs  ** Western  Clianii>iuiis  •  _  
Totals  352  

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE ALL-TIME RECORD 
•^ In 57 seasons ot football since 1887, Xotre Dame teams have won 352 games, lost 77, and tied 28. 
Under the late Knute Kockiie <1918-30) >'otre Dame won 105, Biggest score under Anderson: 1932—Xotre Dame, 73; Hiiskell, 0. lost 12, tied 5. Biggest score under lAyden: 1940 — Notre Dame, 61; Carnegie Under Heartly (Hunk) Anderson (1931-33) Xotre Dame won Tech, 0. 16. lost 9, tied 2. Biggest score under Leahy: 1943 — Notre Dame, 55; Georgia Under Elmer F- liiyden (I9.S4-40) Xotrc Dame won 47, lost 13, Tech, 13. tied 3. 
Biggest score under McKecver: 1944 — Notre Dame, 64; Dart­mouth, 0. 
Under Frank W. I«aliy (1941-43) Xotre Dame wsin 24, lost 3, tied 3. 
AVorst defeat, all-time: 1944 — Army, 59; Notre Dame, 0. Under Edivjird C McKeever (1944) yotre Dame won 8, lost 2. 
AVorst defeat under Rockne: 1925 — Army, 27; Notre Dame, 0. ' 
Under Hufrh Devore (1945) Xotre Dame won 7, lost 2. tied 1. AVorst defeat under Anderson: 1933 — Purdue, 19; Notre Dame, 0; Southern California, 19; Notre Dame, 0. 
Biggest score for Notre Dame: 1905 — Xotre Dame, 142; Amer­ican Medical, 0. 
AVorst defeat under I«ahy: 1942—^Micliigan, 32; Notre Dame, 20. Biggest score tinder Rockne: 1926 — Xotre Dame. 77; Beloit. 0. 
Plan Your 1947 Vacation Now! 
12 DAY ALL EXPENSE FOOTBALL TOUR to fhe 
•
 NOTRE DAME vs. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA game at Los Angeles 

•
 STOP-OVER POINTS — Omaha, Cheyenne, Salt Lake City, Boulder Dam, Los Angeles, Hollywood, Grand Canyon, Albuquerque, Dodge City, Kansas City, Chicago. 

•
 NOW OPEN — Westward Ho! Savings Club at the American Trust Company, South Bend, Indiana. 

•
 CLUB MEMBERSHIP, ^2.00 weekly. You may open as many memberships as you Avish. Payable November,-1947. 

•
 INFORMATION may be obtained by writing to the Savings Club at once. 


If you are not on our mailing list for Notre Dame tours mail your name and address to PETE REDDEN, WESTWARD HO! TRAVEL BUREAU, Oliver Hotel, Soudi Bend, Indiana. 
IN THE HAND OF ALFRED LUNT 
Noted actor of the American stage 
51...tk ewor most wanted oen 
P­

uCyt€^ c!^ 2<}c^4^ufie^z^^/ 
• People everywhere know and cherish the Parker "51". American pen dealers have named Parker the most-wanted pen—rating it ahead of all other well-known makes com­bined. • Today, although still scarce, a few more 51*5 are being shipped than heretofore. You should see your dealer soon—and early in the day. • Here is a pen made to highest standards of precision. Its unique hooded point starts writing instantly, smoothly. For the tip is a ball of micro-polished Osmiridi­um. • Only this pen is designed for satis­factory use with Parker "51" Ink that dies as it writes! • Three colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis­consin and Toronto, Canada. 
Nice Going Team ! 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
301 N. Niles Ave. 

A tradition with Notre Dame Students 
Congrafulafions fo fhe Team from fhe Book Shop 
Headquarters for 

Books, Stationery, Fountain Pens, THE BOOK SHOP Religious Articles 130 North Michigan 
Congratulations Irish of 1946 
126 N. HCchigon 
III 

There wast at The University of No­tre Dame a great tournament field, and hereat, upon many a several Saturday of the'months of October and November, were held ye jousts. Now there wast among ye scholars of ye University a band of worthy knightes, and it wast their wont to engage in tournament, other scoles of the land, that there might at length emerge a great champion. And for these jousts ye Fightinge Irish, for thus were the knightes called, didst gii'd themselves mightily, and being thus gird­ed with bright colors and mickle armor (for there were present many fair dam­sels) they didst go forth upon ye champ and there they didst do battle for the honor of the University. 
Verily, Ye Fightinge Irish were in­deed most valorous, and they didst con­quer nigh onto all who didst come to do battle with them. And in the year of the great liberation they hadst conquered ye Knightes of ye lUini, ye Panther, ye Boilermaker, ye Hawkeye, and ye Goat, despite that the chief of them, yclept ye Coach, didst mourn and weep and Avouldst not be comforted, for he didst constantly fear that ye Knightes might lose the day. 
The champ upon which were held ye tournaments wast known as ye gridiron, and ye jousts were called football. And many pilgrims from the comers of that land were wont to come there, that they might pay homage unto the prowess of ye Knightes of Ye Green Shirte, as they were also called. 
But there were other tournaments in which ye Knightes of ye Green Shirte didst engage, and these were in foreign fields; and of these the greatest wast in the place that is called New York, in the field of the Baron McPhail, that which is also called Ye Yankee Stadium. And this wast a most reno^vned joust; behold, it wast called ye battle of ye century, for ye Knightes of ye Mule, for such wast called the enemy, hadst reduced all who hadst come against them unto vassalage, even the Fightinge Irish, for they hadst for two yeres triumphed over them and hadst humiliated them. 
An there didst follow the Knightes tc New York many students of the Uni­versity, who didst hope that ye Knightes of Ye Mule might be vanquished. And when they came unto that great city, they went them into a church, that they might beseech heaven that their knightes possess the day. And among these wast Ralph O'Rafferty, who had madst great sacrifice of his talents which he cannily hoarded in a sock that he might come 
o^ AiccJemiU 
there, for he loved not ye Knightes of ye Mule. 
And likewise came there many of the place that is known as West Point, for that was the castle of Ye Knightes of ye Mule. And these were also yclept Cadets, and they were clad in gray, every one alike. And they didst enter unto the stadium and sat them down in the best* places, for they didst think that the champ wast truly theirs. 
But when the scolars of Notre Dame didst also enter therein, they were placed in the worst seats; and verily, they 
•couldst barely see the champ by standing one upon the other. And there didst come before Ealph a great giant, in height many hands, and of weight many stone, and this man didst set him down in front of Ealph, and behold, Ealph couldst see even less than the others. And he wast sad, and bethought him sadly of the talents which he hadst spent. 
Anon the hour of the lists drew nigh; and there were present in the great sta­dium many thousands. Many of these didst desire that ye Figthinge Irish be victorious, and many of these were known as ye alumni of ye subway. These didst cheer mightily that ye Knightes of ye Green Shirte taste of victory once again. 
But anon ye Fightinge Irish didst ap­pear upon ye Tournament field; and they were girded mightily, in green and gold. Upon their heads they didst have hel­mets, that they might batter ye Knightes of ye Mule the more. And immediately there came also ye Knightes of ye Mule, and they were clad in gold and black. Among them were three knightes who were so forte that all who hadst come against them hadst been affrightened; and these were called Ye Knighte of Ye Outside, Ye Knighte of Ye Inside, and Ye Knighte of Ye Middle. But the hearts of ye Fightinge Irish were not daunted, for they hadst also many renowned Knightes, and they hadst not met defeat. 
There didst appear then ye officials of ye tournament, and they were clad as did resemble zebras. And one of them cast do^vn the gauntlet so that ye tourna­ment might begin. And before the joust wast long waned the Fightinge Irish didst possess the ball, and they were nigh to the goal of ye Mule. But the same were valiant, and they didst not yield, so that anon the official didst give unto them ye ball. And then Ye Knightes of ye Outside, ye Inside, and ye Middle, and their lesser vassals didst strive mightily so that they might cross ye goal of Ye Irish, but their travaille came to naught. There wast indeed a 
(Continued on Page 60) 

INTRODUCING 
A NEW CUSTOM-BLENDED TOBvlCCO 
A rich mixture of choice imported and domestic tobaccos hand mixed from a private formula to give a coolj mild and naturally fragrant smoke. 
Pocket size, 30c 8 oz. jar, $1.40 16 oz. jar, $2.75 
SOLD ONLY BY 
RU^^NER'S 
SOUTH BEND, /ND/ANA. 
n o NORTH MAIN "IN THE J. M. S. BLDG; 
Attention Students! 
Do you want to save money on your 
Christmas gifts? 
VISIT 
fflGH GRADE JEWELRY: 

Breen's Jewelers 
Diamonds, Watches, Rings at low prices. 

3091/2 S. Michigan Street 
See our line before yon boy—AND SAVE. (Strand Theatre BUtr.. Room 3, UPSTAIRS) Yon can use our lay-away plan. 
«t|.M$iSl»»»^ 
^^1 
ttOJM^^ 
|»W^«^^^g 
.*»•'«»»»«.• 

when you smoke PHIUP MORRIS 'L. 
feS?" "?SiS 
£i*c K 
«w. 
iS^j^.-^n^ 
jyr^jgg^ 

^^!!t^!"!^f^^*jc!!*'l7"-*!!lVrv>'.i^r" 
I , CLEAN, FRESH, PURE 
America's HMfST Qanntte.' 
There's an important difference in PHIUP MORRIS manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world's finest tobaccos come through for your com­
*^^/ 

plete enjoyment—g/gtf», fresh, pure! 
That's why the flavor's ALL yours when you smoke PHIUP MORRIS! That's why PHIUP MORRIS taste better —smoke better—all day long!
»£."5asi'5^?& No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, 
tbe Pmup MORRIS is America's FINEST Cigarette! 
PHIUP MO 
ALWAYS BETTER-BETTER ALL WAYS 
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO 3IARVHIXG BY 
Rah! Rah! Rah! Up! Xotre Dame men! Answer the cry. 
Ao/te 2>(UHe SoHfd 
XOTKE DASfE, OUR HOTITER 

Xotre Dame, our Slother, Tender, stronf^ and true. Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame. And our hearts forever, I'raise thee, Xotre Dame. And our hearts forever, Iiove thee, Xotre Dame. 
VICTORY 3IARCH 
Rally sons of Xotre Dame; Sing her grlorj' and soun4] her fame, ­Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer nith voices true: Rah, rah, for Xotre Dame (U n\li, nih) 
•\Ve
 will fight in ev-ry game. Strong of heart and true to her name 

•\Ve
 will ne'er forget her And we'll cheer her ever Loyal to Xotre Dame. 


Chorus: 

Cheer, cheer for old Xotre Dame. Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. Atlint though the odds be great or small. Old Xotre Dame nill win over all, AVhile her loyal sons are marching Onwani to victorj-. 
Gathering foemen flinfr to the sky. Usht! Fight! Ught! Brave hosts advancing^ challenge your name. March to the battle, Xotre Dame! Rah! Rah! Rah! 
Chorus: And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheerins thousands shout their battle cry: For Xotre Dame men are marching: ints the game. Fighting the tight for you, Xotre Dame, And when that Irish line goes snmeliing through. They'll sweep the foemen's ranks away; When Xotre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Xotre Dame men will win that day. 
DOWX THE LIX'E 
On down the line! beside the glory of her nante. On down the line! beneath the colors of an ancient fame. On down the line! another day for her proclaim: Okl Gold and Blue — you're going through! Go down the line for Xotre Dame! 
HIKE SOXG 
The mnrcli is on, no brain or bratvn Can stop the charge of fighting men. I.ond rings the cr>- of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it's the hike, hike, hike <:f victor}-. The call, to rise and strike. For Xotre Dame men are winning When Xotre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high. Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Xotre Dame 
.4
I could eat gaHoflf of 
1: "Cosh 

5 ICE CREAM" 
synifT [(. ^i•.^^^' I 
ITS 

Swift's Ice Cream 
ke 
Cream. 

f^DRD M0PKIN5 
DRUG STORE 

CONGRATULATIONS fofhe 
FIGHTING IRISH OF 1946 
from 
GEORGE and JOHNNY 
211 W. Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
APOCRYPHA (Continued from Page 57) 
great carnage, and many Knightes were injured. 
And behold, upon the stand wast Ralph O'Rafferty, and before him wast ye great giant. And Ralph couldst not see, but because of the great tumult he wist that the lists had begun.- And he made bold, saying unto the great giant, who wast standing, "Kind Sir, wouldst thou be seated, so that I may see even a part of ye champ?" But the great giant said nought, and he didst stand upon his chair. But Ralph said unto him again, and more boldly, "Verily, sit thee down." And the giant didst turn about,, and he didst smite Ralph, who didst fall among ye cigar ^vl•appers beneath the stand. And before he hadst again climb­ed to his seat, it was already the time in the jousts wherein ye knightes didst rest them so that they might start afresh. And when he hadst restored him to his place he didst learn that ye Knightes were as yet equal. And Ralph wast not pleased, and bethought him that it in­deed were better had he brought with him the device known as ye radio. 
Then ye jousts didst commence anew, and ye Knightes didst strive more might­ily than before, for the time in ye houre glasse wast fast ebbing, and neither hadst pierced unto the goal of the other. But alas. Ye Fightinge Irish could not do so, and it wast of good fortune that ye Knightes of ye Mule didst likewise fail. And behold, the great giant who wast seated before Ralph didst slip and he didst fall, so that Ralph didst see a play. And he wast happy and didst praise the Lord for such a favor. 
But anon ye referee didst signal that ye joust were at an end, and behold, neither ye Knightes of ye Mule nor ye Fightinge Irish hadst made a point, and the referee didst declare that there wast no victor. ' And both ye pilgrims of ye Irish and ye pilgrims of ye Mule were sad, and didst weep; and some sought solace in the cup that cheereth hearts. And Ralph O'Rafferty didst mutter, and say unto himself, behold, next year I shall bring unto this place ye tower of ye Coach so that I may procure the worth of my talents. 
Upon the following daye ye Knightes of Notre Dame didst return thereto; and they were not disheartened, but upon the following Saturdays they didst van­quish ye Knightes of ye Wildcat, ye Knightes of ye Green Wave, and ye Km'ghtes of ye Trojan; and behold, the time of the joust wast done, and ye Fightinge Irish hadst not been vanquish­ed. And they were most glad, as also wast Ralph O'Rafferty; and the same said unto himself, "Behold, next year I shall myself be a knighte, and I shall indeed be famous. And the damsels shall shower upon me roses, and I will kiss their hands, so valiant a Knighte shall I be." But when he said this unto ye Great Coach, that worthy Knighte didst Aveep the more. 

Faculty Athletic Board Lays Down Sports Policy 
The power behind the athletic scenes at Notre Dame is the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. It is this organiza­tion which sets down and carries out the general policies of the University in re­gard to all athletics in which students of the University participate. 
The Faculty Board is now faced with greater responsibility than ever before, since the transition from war-time to peace-time athletics created many prob­lems, scholastic and academic as well as strictly athletic. These problems must be solved in order properly to carry on Notre Dame's traditionally stringent yet mobile policy in regard to intercollegiate sports. One of the Board's actions last spring was to restore 77% as the grade necessary for a sttident to maintain in order to participate in intercollegiate athletic contests as a member of a team officially representing Notre Dame. Un­der the generally less strict i-ules which obtained during the war-, made to iit a military instead of civilian enrollment, only 70% was required. 
The amateur standing of team candi­dates must be passed upon by the Board, which refers to the Prefect of Discipline, himself a member of the Board, any ath­lete who bi'eaks the rules and regulations of the University. The Board also ap­proves elections to team captaincies and appointments to team managerships. 
The Board is at present headed by Eev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice pres­ident of the University and chairman of the Board. He was appointed to this position in the summer of 1946, follow­ing the elevation to the Presidency of the University of JRev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, fonner Vice-President and Chairman of the Board. As Chair­man, it is Father Murphy's duty to ap­point Board members to committees on the eligibility of prospective athletes. He also acts in an advisory capacity to the Director of Athletics in matters of schedule making and monogram awards. 
Present members of the Board, in ad­dition to Father Murphy, include Dean Clarence Manion, Eev. Thomas Leahy, C.S.C, Eev. William McNamara, C.S.C, Eev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C, Mr. Eon-aid E. Eich, and Dean James E. McCar­thy. The alumni advisors are M. Harry 
SOUTH BEND'S MOST UNIQUE SHOP 
DISTINCTIVE CaFTS —EXCLUSrVB JBWELBT 
118 W. Colfmx Ave. Phone 4-7565 
CONGRATULATIONS fo fhe 1946 Team 
/H/Pjl^4 
118 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Bagby ­
Portrait Photographers to Notre Dame men for many years --
Bagby Studios 
Miller, of Wilmington, Del.; Fred L. 
110 Colfax Avenue 
Steers, of Chicago; and Dr. John M. CuUigan, of St. Paul, Minn. 
It's the first of the month-every few days. 
The first few days of the month were once a time of feverish activity for tele­phone accounting personnel. In that short period millions of telephone hills had to be prepared, checked and mailed. But the Bell System accounting staff, seeking to level off this work peak, found a practical solution. 
It's called "rotation billing." 
Now in our accounting departments, a new month begins every few days. Accounts are divided into six or more even groups, each with a different bill­ing date. This spreads the work evenly and eliminates the old last-minute rush. 
This special problem, solved by tele­phone accountants, is typical of those which often confront management in the many branches of our business. They present a stimulating challenge to the young men with initiative and imagina­tion who will find just such practical solutions... young men who find teleph­ony an exciting and rewarding career. 
There's Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony 
EL L pf.^ TELEPHOB^E SYSTEJ 
IT BEHOOVES ME GREATLY 

(Continued from Page 12­ready humiliated them to the tune of 55-0, they kicked a field goal to add in­sult to injury. Had things been vice-versa, the Ann Arbor Wailing Wall would have had standing room only. How to win friends . . . 
WHO PUT THE OVERALLS . . . 
Somebody did something sinister in the Big Nine-Coast Conference deal. Now Coast Conference has selected two scape­goats, Montana and Idaho, who voted for the arrangement, and are trying to expel them. Anny, after years and years of saying no, no, no, to all post season bids suddenly wants to go, picks up its marbles and goes home when it doesn't get invited to the Rose Bowl. While such conduct is juvenile. Army has a point... somebody staged a coup d'etat somehow. Let the galled jade wince, our withers are unwrung. 
VALEDICTORY ., . It seems that "It Behooves Me Great­ly" is about to go the way of all flesh. This column appears, after all, to have been a nonce bit of journalistic endeavor, not a permanent addition to the SCHOL­
ASTIC'S column department. It is not without regrets that I bow off the liter­ary stage; it is not without misgivings that I yield my toga as a member of the literati and allow the SCHOLASTIC to meander down the labrynthine ways of fortune and misfortune unguided by my penchant for employing the language to turn a phrase. I had hopes that my ef­forts would meet a better reception than those of the man who built the rat-trap, and that for the next several aeons I would be besieged by thousands of writ­ers, anthologists, and collectors seeking my words of ^visdom to add to their own stores. So far, all I have had is several requests for autographs from small boys who want to ascertain if I can actually write by hand. That sort of thing is dis­couraging; even if I were begged on the SCHOLASTIC'S bended knee to continue my outpourings, I doubt if I would do it. Such questions concerning my lit­eracy unnerve me. Therefore, to some­one else I throw the torch of the Muse; may he hold it higher than I have. My public, farewell! 
Why Friday? In college dorms throughout the nation Friday is the day of concentration. On autumn Fridays as on no other day The minds of the students are on work, 
not play. 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 

GENERAL DENTISTBT X-rays and Consaltatioii Diseases and SarKCiy of Hrath and Jawa Telephone 4-5661 702 J. M. S. Bnildins; South Bend. Ind. 
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER 

DENTISTS 503 Sherland Boildlns Phone 3-1254 South Bend. Indiana 
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 
825 Sherland Bnildine 

L. E. Usher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, MJ>. 
Telephone 3-4269 
ROSE DENTAL GROUP 
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.O.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S. 

623-629 Sherland Bid?. South Bend, Ind. 
DR. O. J. GRUNDY 

Rccistcied Podiatiiat FOOT AILHENTS 406-408 Tower Baildinsr Phone 3-2574 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyers Avenac 
CCLLEGE PARADE 
specializing in the 

By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS 
examination of the eyes 

Dr. E. J. Cain LUJACK'S SOLILOQUY * "Speedy" S-mith and Lari-y Coutre, and 
OPTOMETRIST 
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory. 
212 S. Michigan Street 
Phone 4-8251 
I J 
Congratulations 
to the 
Notre Dame Football Team 
from 
BUSINESS SYSTEMS 
Headquarters for 
FOUNTAIN PENS LAMPS STATIONERY DESK LAMPS 
BUSINESS SYSTEMS 
126 S. Main Street Across from the Court House 

To punt or not to punt. That is the 
question— WhetJier it is nobler in the end to take A chance and rush and perhaps make A first down. Or, playing it safe, to take 
heed of Leahy's won-ies, Atvd by kicking, etid them. To pioit— to kick!— No more—and by that kick to get a break: The wind, a wildly bouncing ball, a fumble That luck is heir to—it is a consumma­tion Devoutly to be wished. To phmge—to nish!— To rush—perchance to fail! Aye, there's tlie rub, For in that last down rush what ills may come When lue have failed and given the ball away Must give us serious pause. There's the 
respect  
Tliat  brings  gray  hairs  to  a  quarter­ 
back's  noggin.  
For  who  would  bear  the  dull  humility  

Of being^ removed by the coach from the 
. game, The pregnant anxiety, the wait on edge Spent by a quarterback on the bench; To sit like a hermit in his lonely cave In silence? Who would bear the crucial 
gibes With which the player is daily teased When lie himself might prevent such 
heartfelt griefs By playing it safe and kicking? 
GABBIN' 'BOUT THE GRTOIRON .. . 
During the Purdue game Coach Leahy took Jim Mello out to instruct him on a pass defense against Ed Cody, Purdue halfback. Leahy sent Jim back into the game; three plays later Purdue scored with Cody receiving a pass in Mello's zone and going all the way for the TD. Coach Leahy, trying very hard to act like a Christian gentleman, yanked Mello and said to him, "James, my lad . . . James, I thought I told you to watch Cody on those passes." 
Mello answered, "I did as you told me, coach. I watched him . . , gee, isn't he a beautiful pass receiver, coach?" 
Iri the Northwestern game, when the Notre Dame backfield was made up of freshman quarterback Brown, halfbacks hard-driving fullback John "Agony" Ag-
none, it was ND's ball and Bi-own was 
calling signals. A little nervous, he point­
ed to Coutre and called Smith's play. 
Smith made a line run and a few seconds 
later the game was over. Brown", happy 
and excited, congratulated Coutre for 
the beautiful run (made by Smith), pat­
ted Smith on the back for his fine block 
(made by Agnone), and finally congratu­
lated Agnone for a beauty of a fake 
(made by Coutre). 
Also in the Northwestern game. Jack 
"The Hipper" Fallon was playing op­
posite Dick Eggers who was at Notre 
Dame as a Navy phy ed instructor. Eg­
gers was playing a whale of a game for 
Northwestern until Fallon struck up a 
conversation. Eggers became so interest­
ed he scarcely noticed that Notre Dame 
ran two successive plays through his 
position and scored another touchdown! 
By the way, we also hear that Fallon 
is quite the basketball player.-'tis said 
that he made All-State in high school. 
"The Ripper" modestly denies this. 
Even though the 1946 football season is closed as far as Notre Dame is con­cerned, in the far-flung corners of this Union ex-ND stars are carrying on the Irish colors at other schools. Bill Huber scored the touchdo-wn for Illinois that clinched the Big Nine championship. . . . Matt Bolger has been plucking passes out of the air for Ed McKeever at Cor­nell. . . , Art Fitzgerald has been a powerhouse all year at Yale. . . . there are also former Notre Dame men spark­ing teams at Southern Cal, North Caro­lina, St. Benedict's, Bucknell, Villanova, Navy, St. Bonaventure, and Canisius. 
A peculiar situation existed a few Sun­days ago when St. Bona's met Canisius in BuflFalo for the "Little Three" crown. Two men who roomed together in Sorin last year faced each other on the grid­iron. Tony "Red" Rocco was at fullback for Canisius and the inimitable Phil Colella was at halfback for Bonaventure. Colella and Co. triumphed 13-0. Phil had a terrific year with Hugh Devore and is by far the outstanding back in the con­ference. 
Hats off from this department to Hughie Devore, who changed from the Blue and Gold to the Brown and White 
(Continued on Page 67) 
The 

Oliver Hotel 
Hoffman Hotel 
LaSalle Hotel 
Jefferson Hotel 
... Salute ... THE FIGHTING IRISH of 1946 
Items of interest in the Heldfs of Chemlstfy, En«tii^rlit5/l?iiysi«^ «n<l Bfofos^^ 
Clieinistiy Provides New Colors for New Cars 
In Detroit this spring, automotive engi­
neers and designers were shown a dozen 
cars finished in glowing colors never be­
fore seen on any automobile—colors 
that diffused and reflected light back to 
the eye from within the finish instead of 
from the surface. 
These new "Duco" Metalli-Chrome lacquers which attracted industry-wide attention are expected to give new beauty and durability to America's cars. The story behind their development is an interesting one. 
New Techniques for Pigment Preparation 
As many commercial pigments are now made, they are precipitated from chem­ical solutions in the form of fine parti­cles, which are then dried, ground and reground with a liquid vehicle to pro­duce the final paint, enamel or lacquer. The fineness of the particle-size largely determines the luster of the finish. Al­though mechanically' ground pigment particles can be made extremely fine, they are not nearly as small as the par­ticles originally precipitated. 
A few years ago a program of research was started by Du Pont scientists to try to take advantage of the very fine particles formed by precipitation. Thej' proposed to eliminate the drying and grinding processes entirely—to trans­fer the microscopically sized, precipita­ted, hydrated pigment particles directly from the mother solution to the lacquer vehicle. 
Extended study by organic and col­loid chemists, physicists and chemical engineers finally solved this problem. The procedure consists of mixing the wet pigment in a heavy-duty mill with water-wetnitrocellulose,dibutylphthal­ate and castor oil. Dibutyl phthalate forms a colloidal solution with nitro­cellulose. The colloid absorbs the castor oil and pigment, but eliminates the major portion of the water as a sepa­rate insoluble phase. 

A New Range off Color Effects 
After the method of transferring wet pigment particles had been established, the second development in this program was the practical utilization of precipi­tated ferric hydroxide. Although it had been used for a long time as an inter­mediate for the manufacture of dry fer­ric oxide pigment, ferric hydroxide in the wet form as a pigment had been ap­plied only to a very limited extent and its true value had gone unrecognized. When used in conjunction with the new process, wet ferric hydroxide produced a lacquer of unusual brilliance and dur­ability. In combination with other pig­ments, a whole new range of color effects became possible. 
Because of their extremely small pig­ment particle-size, the Metalli-Chromes are somewhat translucent, having a dis­tinctive, soft innerglow. This lustrous depth is furtherenhanced by introducing into the film aluminum particles which act like mirrors to reflect the light with­in the finish. 
Not only are these new lacquer fin­ishes more lustrous and more beautiful, but they are also more durable, as proved by four years of laboratory and road-testing. "Duco" Metalli-Chrome lac­quer is a worthy newcomer to the ever-lengthening list of developments by men of Du Pont that have helped in the mass-production of automobiles and the creation of new industries, new markets, new jobs for millions of Americans. 
Questions College Men ask about working with Ou Pont 
WILL I FIND COMPETITION DIFFICULT AT DU PONT? 
It is to be exiMJcted that there will be competition in an orRanization where every effort is made to select the best trained and most promising graduates. However, such competition is not de­liberate or is it on an elimination basis. New employees are given every oppor­tunity to grow in the organization. 
Technical undergraduates and gradu­ate students will be interested in the new booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate." Write to 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del. 
REG. U.S.PAT, off-

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THKOUGH CHEMISTKY 
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America," Mondays, 7 P.M. CST, on NBC E. I. OU rONT DE NIMOURS « CO. (INC.) WIIMINGTON 9S, DELAWAtE 
this year and did a fine job directing St. Bonaventure to six victories in seven games and a bid to the Tobacco Bowl, played in Lexington, December 14th. 
One of the best games seen all season on the Stadium turf was the first half of the "B" team-Michigan State Jayvee game. It was a nip and tuck battle until the end of the third period, but Potter and his followers racked tip a victory, 38-13. The four "B" team backs—Begley, Coutre, Slovak, and Agnone—^have been referred to as the "Pour Ponies" but when we questioned a well-informed authority (Trigger) about this, he re­plied "Neigh." 
• 

COMMENTS ON THE SEASON . . . 
The Army and Illinois games were a great success, but to put it mildly, the seats at the Illinois contest were much superior. . . . After the Army game Irish suppoi"ters were buzzing around New York wearing SPATNC labels with the added notation, "We did our pai-t!" . . . The terrific blocking and tackling of both John Mastrangelo and George Con­nor and their consistently fine woi'k every Saturday bringing them Ail-American nominations. . . . The superb playing of Johnny Lujack, both on de­fense and offense, making him one of the greatest quarterbacks of all time— and he still has two years of college ball ahead of him. . . . We were glad to see George Sullivan, who was plagued all season by injuries, play the out­standing game of his career against Ai'my. . . . And also the fine late-season play of Jim Costin's boy Friday, Ernie Zalejski. . . . One thing that had us baffled all season was Coach Leahy's pessimism and tear-shedding because we had no breakaway runner. True. We had a few fair halfbacks like Brennan, Sitko, Livingstone, Cowhig, Gompers, Simmons, Swistowicz, Zalejski, McGee, Smith, Ag­none, Slovak, and Coutre—and some fair-to-middlin' fullbacks in Mello, Pa­nelli, Clatt, and McGiirk but .. . no breakaway manner. But regardless of what Coach Leahy thinks, in our humble opinion he has the greatest aggregation of backs any team has ever had. And we'll back up our li2ie against any in the country. Now, the $64 question is "How can some sportswriters still in­sist on rating Army over Notre Dame— in view of the November 9th skirmish?" 
WILL DO TYPING for Students — 
Call 3-1942 between the hours of 9:30 and 4:00 P. M. 
MRS. KELLER 

Congratulations on a very successful Football season .. . 
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP 
121 W . Colfax Avenue 
FOR YOUR N. D. JACKETS AND BLANKETS 
To THE FIGHTING IRISH from 
WELL DONE! 
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND 
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Coll .C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St.. Phone 3-3111. 
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R. 
SOUHHSFRE 
-^^ 

in  
"^  
1  
j.-sr  
-•(i^P*  
•s??^?  ^/-I!J  
r*^  

ALWAYS BETTER COOLER MILDER TASTING SMOKING 
HESTERFIELD 
RIGHT COMBINATIONiTWORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS PROPERLY AGED 
Copyright 1946, Uccm & Mnis TOIACCO CO. 





