Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 39 Issue 13 22 December 1905 
228 NOTRE DAME 
The Cincinnati Ladies' Concert. 

The Cincinnati Ladies' Cremona Orchestra plaj^ed here Dec. 2. There was ranch to enjo3^ in the way of good music in their numbers; the ladies played well together, with good technique and considerable expres­sion, but the character of the performance on the whole was not up to exiDCctations. The\^ were led hy Airs. Baldwin Broekhoven whose solos were appreciated as Were those of the violoncellist. 
Mrs. Beecher's Recital. 

To-da^'- when elocution so often' means aflfectation and insinceritj^, lovers of true art can not but admire the work of Elizabeth Garghill Beecher, whose excellent recital on Saturda3% December the 9th, delighted her audience in Washington Hall. The richness of voice, the charm and sincerity'- of manner, above all that naturalness which is hers, stamp Mrs. Beecher as an interpretive reader of the highest rank. The selections given were four in number, "A Man Without a Country," a reading from "Quo Yadis" and the humorous pieces "That Boat Race" and "How^ a Woman Buys a Christmas Gift." It is difficult to, sa3'' in wliich Mrs. Beecher . excelled. She rendered both the humorous and the pathetic with equal skill and -in such' a w^ay as to move her audience to alternate joy and sorrow. Mrs. Beecher's first appearance at Notre Dame v^dll long be remembered, and it is hoped by all that she will visit us again.. 
Lelarid Power's; Recital. 

OVL. Thursday afternoon, December . 14, the students had the pleasure; of being present at a splendid-recital given by MrrLeland Powers: in Washington Hall.: In his-skilfiil impersonations of ithe many characters from the romantic comedy, "David Garrick," Mr. Pb:vv:erslscored a great success;rHis Richard Chivy'jand,Simon Ingot ;were^ ihterpretations. .Mr.;^^ welcomed[at Notre: Dame again>:'^^^^ .: 

SCHOEASTIC. 
Is. 
ersona 

—John M. Gearin (B.S. ^71, M. S. '74.) has been ajDpointed United States Senator from Oregon to fill the vacancj^ created by the death of Senator Mitchell. For j^ears Mr. Gearin has enjoyed a national reputation as a la\v3'-er and an orator, and the Senate will afford him ample opportunities to displaj'' his versatile gifts. The University congratulates Senator Gearin and rejoices in the Veil-deserved honors that have come to him. 
—It was a source of gratification to the members of the Universitj'-to note that among the group of laymen who me t • conjointlj'­with distin.qj-uished clerg^'•men in Chicago recenth"^ to organize the Church ,Extension' Societv were three graduates of Notre Dame. These were the Hon. W. P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, whom the University looks upon as her ideal alumnus; Mr. Warren Cartier, donor of Cartier Field, another alumnus of wdiom Notre Dame is especiall3'^ proud, and Mr. J. J. Fleming of Iowa who is eminenth'­w;ortli3'' of a place in this honorable company. Mr. Breen was. elected treasurer of the Society'-. ­
—Members of the Universitj"- were dehglited to.note the presence of Mr. J. S. Hummer among the judges of the Oratorical Contest. Mr. Hummer won the. Breen Medal in his j'-ear, and his success, since his graduation is,a source of pride to Alma. Mater. He is now Master in Chancer^'-, and the prophets say he will soon- ornament the bench. 
Varsity of 1905. 

Another year of football has come and 
gone;, with its coming came our hopes and in^rits going went our hopes: : On. Nov. 24 Notre-. Dame turned.down another page of her: football l^history.: Far: below - expec­tations..w;ent\the-leaf, \but it -is. gone:.and another;season;is;COimrig. : ; -. . . • , In .-the: .biegirimngr^of/r this ; scholastic j'^ear ; Notre J J)ameiibpasted;^ of^rfootball -material Ithe^flike; bf-;whi^ had before. 
Good ::anen:-fand pplent;^^^^ 

J^OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 2^29 
to the early call of Coach McGlew, and for 
the first month of the season the "vines 
were ever fruitful and the weather ever fine," 
but—^it rained. 
First came the trouble with the three men 

from North Di\dsion High School. Dissatis-: 
faction caused hj outside parties in time 
effected such disagreements and misunder­
standings as to cause these men to leave 
school. Not that the team was materially 
weakened as a result, but the ^trouble had 
started. Men were left to fill the places 
made vacant, if it may be said that places 
were made vacant, yet it w-as not that. 
To be frank, it w^as a lack of the true spirit. 
It would be idle at this late dav to fix the 
blame, if indeed the blame could be fixed, 
so let tis repeat simplv- that it was the lack'­
of the "altogether spirit," and the result 
was inevitable. 
•It is an utter impossibilitj^ for a coach to develop and make a football team unless he has the entire support and confidence of the men tinder him. 
The team this jeax was composed of men 
who had, with one exception, the benefit 
of two or more years on the gridiron. Of 
last year's team right end and tackle were 
missing, but the rest remained nearly the 
same. The backfield consisted of men who 
had ]3layed in the same positions the year 
previous. The new material was the best 
we ever had, and it is ^\dth regret we can 
not sa3'-a winning team w-as turned out. 
A.nd yet the fact that we did not have a 

winning team can not be accepted as proof • 
that our coach Tvas incompetent, for.no man 
laboring under the same conditions coidd 
have succeeded. But it is over, the season ­
is gone, and let b\'-gones be bygones. Another 
year is coming and we still have plenty of 
time to repair our reputation in the football 
world. 
We. lose many good men in June, but 
many'good men .have been lost before and 
men have alwaj'-s been found, to take their . 
places. Of • this year's team M. -Downs, B. 
Downs, McAvoy, Sheehan, McNernj'-, Funk, 
CalHcrate, Donovan, Heah'^, Waldorf and^ 
Bracken, have .one year or .more left to 
their credit. - Silvery and Draper are the only 
ones who shave .used lip their four.years. ' 
Captain Beacom has decided not to .return, 

-as4have-several,of the other'men; .butdt is safe to say Notre Dame will have a, team : next 3'ear - and one : that; will do all in its. power to atone for the season just closed. 
And now. let be said in all fairness that no man ever worked harder; ever put. more time and energy into a thing; ever used the means available in a more beneficial manner liian. did our coach of the past season, Henry J. McGlew. The season was not what we would like to have had it nor -was it as he desired.; As a hard and earnest worker he proved '­himself to be w^ithout an ecxual at Notre Dame. Days came late in the. season whe n there were not enough' men -to make tip a second team, but McGlew would Vdon a suit and go in and play as hard as any man on the squad. Instead of seeing that the men /^ took all the bumps and bruises ,at his . direction, he took his shate, and oftentimes, more than his share. His everv. thought w^as to develop and make a team Notre ' Dame could be proud of and one that .would demand respect from everyone. But con-:: ditions were against him.. No man could, ' under the same conditions, do morethan did ,. he. As a hard and earnest w^orker, whose ­very heart was wrapped in the making: of v a team, let him be remembered. , , > 
PATRICK A. BEACOM (Guard). : .^ 

. Captain Beacom ended his football, career at Notre Dame after three vears of"brilliant w^ork. He w-as-a tower of strength on offense and defense; he was never-injtired; . neA^er took out time, played in every game since he has been here, and was always .the same old Pat in the same old "way. He has been the mainstay of. the team for. three . years, and the,hole that will be made:Tby his absence will-be the hardest one on the team to fill. To say that Captain Beacom is the: best line man Notre Dame ever had is saving much, but .with inpunity .it; may , be said that Beacom. is the best msui: in'his position that has ever been ;ttimed put here :­and is one of the, best line men in the country.. "Pat " is 23 -years old, weighs ;23b.^and is " 6 feet 2 inches in height.: , .. . V ^> .^'; ic.'.j^^ 
.K4.THAJS!iEi. .SILVER, (Quarte ' .Vi ^ This is Silver's last. year of football... For; ­fouryears * Nate' has^pla3'ed^ at-Notre .Dame , and his ^record is: one:! to be proud = of. . As :a V; defensive . quarter heis equal-Tto..,any iii.^the/\:-: West. And .:not alone does :he-sliine4i;it-l 
-' -; .-f-*^ " 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
quarter, for in the Purdue game, the last one of the 3'ear, Silver plaA'ed end and his defen­sive work merited much praise and favorable comment. His judgment in directing plays is good, and he has the faculty- of inspiring "ginger" into the men and keeps them going all the time. Silver has been the lightest man on the team during his four A-ears here, but this year was ii little heavier than any 3'ear previous, weighing 156 pounds. He is 22 3'ears old and stands 5 feet 7 inches in height. 
Ci^-VREXCE J. SiiEEH.vx (Ccnti-e). 

Shcehan ]3la3'ed the same stead3' game that has marked him as one of the most con­sistent men at Notre Dame. PIa3'ing along­side Captain Beacom the3' were like a stone wall and verv few irains wei'c ever made through the left side of centi'e. "Bud" is a fast man and a hard worker. His pass­ing is accurate, he is seldom injured, has pla3'ed in everv gjime and ranks among the best centres in the West. Sheehan has one more 3-ear of football, l)ut has decided not to return as he intends to go into business. Had he so desired, he would have been a likeh* candidate for captain. Sheehan is 22 3'ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches in height. 
WILLIAM A. DR.VPER (Half-Back). 

Draper w-as shifted from full-back to half this 3'ear, and in the earh" games was pla3'ed at end. The change from full to half-back proved to be a wise move. DrajDer's end runs were most noticeable throughout the season. As a defensive half-back Draper shone best. In the Indiana game he pla3'ed a wonderful game on defensive and displa3'ed endurance equalled 01113' 133^ that of Captain Beacom. As a punter he had no equal in the state and no superior in the West. This is Draper's last 3^ear; he has onh^ pla3'-ed two 3'^ears of football but his time has expired due to track w^ork. "Bill" is 21 3'ears old is 6 feet 2 inches in height and weighs 172 pounds. 
"BARLOW" MCAYGY (End). McAvoy w^as w'ithout doubt the most brilliant player on the team. His w^ork throughout the entire season was sensa­tional. His hurdling feats have never been equalled at Notre Dame. In' nearty every 
game he tore off a long run either on the kick-off or in actual pla3\ The last two games found him at half-back, and there, as at end, his pla3ang was brilharit. On defense he w^as as daring as on offense. His long drives and "shoe-strings" aroused admiration from the bleachers at home and abroad. In the AYisconsin o-ame McAvov's daring tackles saved maiw touchdowns. On offense and defense he was the same, alwa3'S in the game And alwa3's the same brilliant pla3'er. McAvo3^ is 5 feet 11 inches in height. He is 22 3'ears old and weighs 164 pounds. 
ARTHUR FUNK (Tackle). 

This is Funk's second 3'ear and he con-tinned his good work of last 3'ear. Funk was b3' far the lightest man in the line but Avhat he lost in weight he made up for in nerve and endurance. On defense especialh' Funk's work was most noticeable. For a man of his weight his defensive work was marvellous. It is safe to sa3' that during the entire season not more than twent3' 3^ards were made through or around Funk. In the Wisconsin game he was a Avonder, as thev gained not a foot through him. Funk wnll be graduated in June and does not expect to return. He Aveighs 165 pounds, is 5 feet 9 inches in height and is 21 A'cars old. 
WiLLLOi E. DOWNS (Full-Back). This was Bill's first 3^ear on the team. His work while not of a brilliant order Avas the kind that AAdns games; a stead3' man behind the line, a man holding the half-backs with him, and alwa3'S using good lieadAA'ork. ^ His defensive pla3dng, as a line bucker AA^as good, he was in CA'Ciy pla3'-, seldom hurt and alwa3^s in the game for all there AA'as in him. "Bill" could hit a line "some" in which capacit3' he reminded one of the famous Salmon. It is hoped "Bill" AA'HI return next 3'^ear as he has a great future before him and the "makings" of one of the best full­b'acks in the countiy. He is 5 feet 11 inches in height, Aveighs 195 j)ounds and is 22 3'-ears old. 
DOMINIC CALLICRATE (End). Callicratc AA'-as the "find" of the season. Last 3'^ear he pla3'ed a few games Avith St. Joseph's Hall, and then w-as compelled to leaA'-e school on account of sickness. He 


232 NOTRE DAME 
returned this jesiv and made the Varsity wath ease. As a defensive end Callicrate was a wonder. His tackling was brilliant; his nerve and endurance were admirable; in everj"^ game seldom injured, and alway^s readj'" for more. He has three years more of foot­ball, and if he improves as he has in the past he will be without an equal in the West. Callicrate is 21 A'cars old, weighs 160 pounds and is 5 feet 10^/4 in height. 
RICHARD W . DONOVAN (Guard). 

"The Man \vho was Never Hurt" kept ujD his reputation. This was his third year in the line. " Smush " is not a brilliant plaj^er but jDlays a good'steady game, and this j^ear showed marked improvement on offensive work in carrjang the ball. Donovan has another year to plaj'-. He is 22 3'-ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet in height. 
JMAURICE M . DOWNS (Tackle). 

Maurice is a brother of the famous "Bill." He pla3'ed right taclde this year and xDroved to be a good^steadj'- man. This was his first year and gives great promise for the future. He is absolutely fearless, and if the word ."gameness" applies to anyone on the team it surety does to him. Maurice is 5 feet 10 inches -in height, is 23 A^ears old and w^eighs 190 pounds. 
RuFus WALDORF (Full-Back). 

This is "Bumper's" second year; and on account of his class work he did not intend to come out this year, but was finally persuaded in the latter part of the season. Weighing onlv one hundred and sixtv he. tore holes in the opposing lines hke a rnan twice his size and weight. Waldorf will return next year and "things" can be expected of. him. He, is hght, but fast and heady, a good defensive half-back and no mean punter. "Rufe " is 20 years old, w^eighs 160, pounds and,is 6 feet in height.. 
^LAW^RENCE MCNERNY (Quarter-Back). 

" A'lac" wa s injuired in the first game of the season. For the past two years he has played left end and started there this; year. In the game-w^ith'North'Division his knee was injured and he decided .to give up the game, as the same knee was.badly injured' last year. I>ater 'in the season Coach McGlew got him, out again, and in the last three games he played at; quarter. As a,, general "Mac " ranks high. His, defensive: playing is good. End he has always,played, 
.a t Notre Dame, but quarter seems to be his > proper position. "Mac'>'has}one .more year ; and may return. He is 6 :feet/2i.inclies in:; . height, w^eighs 172 .pounds f and is .23 
/years.old. ,. ^ 1 . ; : v •/. ; . ; ^ 


SCHOLASTIC, 
FRANK T. HEAEY. 
"Pertoot" was a regular last year, but this vear he could not get in anv kind of condition until A'eiy late in the j-ear and by that time the other men all had the jump on him. Heaty has two j-'ears more to his credit but is not Hkelv to return. He-is a big man and has a great amount of speed for his size. He is a hard and earnest vForker, and had he been in condition earlier he would have made them all go some in the line position. Healy is 5 feet 11 inches in height, weighs 210 pounds and is 22 years old. 
FRANK MUNSON. 
Munson proved that he has the right kind of stuff in him to hiake a good football player. He is an earnest worker and a good, hard trainer. This is his first ytar, but the experience he gained will make him a most valuable man for another 3rear. Tackle is his position, and great things may be expected of him in the future. Alunson is 5 feet 10 inches in- height, weighs 185 XDOunds and is 19 years old. 
THOIMAS .JOYCE. 
JoA'ce w^as late in coming out and was necessarily slow in rounding into form. He is a guard and puts up a good, steadj'-• game as w^as shown by his playing in the few games he was in. Like Munson, great-things can be expected of Joyce, and if he returns next year, v?hich is to be hoped, he will without a. doubt be one of our best linemen. Joyce is 6 feet in height, weighs 175 pounds and is 22 years old. 
* 
* * 
A captain was. not elected and the election will not take place until after the holidaj'-s. 
- Lack of men for . a second team in the latter part of. the season was a thing that Coach McGlew had to contend .wdth and which .forced an undue amount of work on the part of the regulars. Such men as Healy, Munson .and Joyce, wdio remained out the entire season, are -the. men wh o deserve as much credit as the regulars. The, so-called ""scrubs" are the .men on every team that make the team; they are the men w-ho must be.lobked to for.the coming year and the men who never receive the credit due. them. vHairrj'.Hague kept the men in good condi­tion, all year, and the few. injuries Avhich did befall -the men were all attended to promptly,: and = the . shape in which they finished a long hatd?season show^s that Mr. Hague luiows his-bdsiness. -,­
/.In yconclusion ;tiie;'ScHbEASTic desires to 'corigratulate:^;Goach. and '. players, for their loyalty-in-the face: of; overwhelming odds and .wish them a-U. a MERRY CHRISTMAS,- and a 
HAPPY. NEW YEAR I: R. L. BRACKEN. 



