'-^^ ^^'C"'/;­
 •• 
^fl-^ 
^^•>i: 

DiSG;£ QVASi-sempee- viciviev/s-• vive OVASI-GRAS-ivioieiTv/ie\ys-:: 
VOL. XEVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 13, 1913. Nor.ii. 
The Peerless Squad of the Gold and Blue. 
O F old when brave knights in the tourney had vanquished the last of their foes 
And were crowned by the Queen of Beauty, full sweet were the shouts that arose Of acclaim from the thronging thousands who had Avitnessed their valor and. might,. But the pride of their near and dear ones was the core of their heart's delight; E'en so Avith our Knights of the Oval who have travelled the farthest afield Of all the squads in the country, and have forced all their foemen to yield,— They have joyed in the cheers of spectators in the West, East, and South, it is tcue,­But the praise they love best is the home-praise— 
Their home of the . . Gold and Blue. 
Then, sing we-the song of their triumph, their glory, fair-shining afar. 
And tell Ave our pride in their proAvess uplifting oiir fame above par,— ' -­
The thrill of delight that enthralled us and lingered in eA'^ery breast 
When West Point Avatched our boys meet the Arihy, and Aactory pointed Avest. , 
Penn State was made pensive indeed by oiir score, and the " Christians" uhchristianly sad, . 
But our hearts only shouted Vce victis the,more, as our souls grcAv increasingly.glad; I . 
Then, to cap the fair climax of triumphs, the Longhorns bowed low to us, too, ' 
So, here's to our,stars, the ,"AU-UniA'^erseV' , .:-' • ­
The squad.of the _ . ' " r 
. - Gold and Blue! _ 
"There were brave men'before Agameranon," Yes, heroes we'Are had before, . . ; Nor pluck we a leaf from thegarlands they Avon and right worthily bore: ... 7 ,s7 There Avere Farleys..and Salmons and Dolans and "Red" Millers in the years gone by, , And their-Alma Ma,ter femeinbers that they planted her.-colors W , -' % But in vain,,will you search the-records, Brother._Boha. himself, has ne'er-seen. -' 
i-;-:-=x»:i;Sjft 
The equals of'Harper's invincibles, oiir peerless orproiid'13. -..;..--; ' Their game?marked an'epoch'in football, and Fame; pays^^^^J^^ homage due ^ .:.'.:;-;.,: ,To \Dorais ,andj ".Eich'V and.;.Rockne, .with ; , . -•,-'.•'•,. =^ . r K;>-' " •;/',- ••-•,:•,.'-"• ^' . -. • •-"^ : Their 'mates.= of' the . ~ ';. . V;, - :"-_V:7 .kV?::^ 
•"•;•.._•-. ••'•-•',•;'->''. • -.•"_; V .-^ ." ' ... •'.." '^- ''--•• Vf 7'Gold'-and:-Blue,.':'";-\ ':.,-.•",'-fr.^l "•'-•' •'"'--'-• ''r~'' :'''"' •' /'* '['-' ' .'•' "-''7 ' '. .•.. '•' • .. '=.'"- •• '' ' *. ^--" J'„ ARTHUR"--BAiutr:';-'.^ 
,:r-.--'#v;~^-,. 
Notre Dame in Football History. 
ARTHUR J. HAYES, 15. 
The declining sun was casting long blue shadows over the rugged slopes of the Lace­daemonian hills, and flooding in golden light the vast gathering that thronged the broad Plain of Sparta. Near, the centre of a great square flanked on all sides by thousands of alert spectators, half a hundred 3-oung men struggled in a chaotic group. Suddenly from out of the agitated mass there bounded a large leather ball, and a stock}'- young man, detaching himself from the rest, sent it soaring toward two upright posts at one end of the field. A mighty cheer went up therewith, for Flavins Maecinus—013'^mpic hero. Spartan prototype, and predecessor by twentj'^-two centuries of our own all-American star, Dorais—had kicked goal. 

With the advent of the Roman legions, substantial modifications were made in the old Laconian game, and when introduced into Britain by the soldiers of Julius Agricola, the square had been changed to a rectangle, and of the twenty-seven men comprising a team, fifteen were designated as "forwards," five were so-called "defensive backs," four cor­responded to our halfbacks, and the remainder constituted a trio of fullbacks. According to one chronicler of legionar}?^ pastimes, the ball was either kicked or carried between the goal posts, two fouls counted a goal for the side offended against, and goals were changed as often as points were scored. Inveighed against as an "ungodly" sport, decreed against as detrimental to perfection in archer}'-, football continued to be popular in England throughout the centuries that ensued after the legions of Rome had first introduced the sport. Year after year, this form of play persisted without radical change or modification. Then in 1823, "Rugby" footJaall was born of a deliberate infraction of the rules of the game by one William Webb ElHs, who violated all precedent and tradition by running with the ball in a desperate endeavor to score in the last minute of play. This spectacular feat, though palpably a foul, so commended itself, to devotees of the sport, that the practice of running with the ball was incorporated into the game. 
The year 1869 witnessed the first college contest in this country when Princeton and Rutgers played" an original game of football, 
partaking of the natures of both "soccer" and 
"Rugby." Columbia followed in the succeed­
ing 3'-ear and Yale in 1872. Then Harvard 
tutored in Canadian "Rugby" by McGill, 
challenged Yale to play under the same rules, 
and intercollegiate football in "the United States 
was fairty launched. 

It was still a comparatively recent innovation in the West in 1887, when the University of Michigan sent a team down to play Notre Dame. The local aggregation were so little conversant with the game that their sponsors had to stage an exhibition contest in order that the pioneers of the Gold and Blue might know how to proceed. But Notre Dame's initial effort, thus inau­spiciousl}' inaugurated, was worthy of the name she has since upheld. For the invaders were able to score onl}^ eight points against the neophytes of the Hoosier school. Two con­tests the following 3''ear, resulted in a double victor};- for Michigan by margins so narrow that the result of the game was in both instances problematical until the last few minutes of 
pla};-. The following season saw but one per­formance on the local gridiron, a featureless contest resulting in the defeat of the Harvard Law school of Chicago. 
In 1889 occurred the first foreign invasion, and Northwestern University succumbed to Notre Dame at Evanston, after a bitterly con­tested game in which Cartier and Prudhomme starred. After this meinorable battle there was a lapse of two years, following an expression of disapproval b};- the faculty. In 1S92 the mar-­velous punting of Ouinlan enabled the locals to register a tie score with Hillsdale. Four games the next season resulted in four victories for "the locals," and then in-1894 Notre Dame was pitted against the renowned eleven of Chicago. As was the case in the Michigan game, in which the Gold and Blue ma};- be fairl}'- said to have made its debut, onl}'- eight points were rolled up, but they were all on the wrong side of the ledger. This defeat was retrieved by five other victories, including among them wins from Wabash and Rush Medical., 
The annals of .1895 have inscribed in them but two games—a. victor}^ over the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons, and a defeat at the hands of Northwestern. Two defeats ad­ministered earl3r in the season of 1896 by Chicago and the Chicago Ph^'^sicians and Surgeons augured ill for Notre Dame, .but out of the three 
363. 


-•^A^ 
•/" 

remaining games, they managed to secure two victories, losing the third b}'-a margin of six points to Purdue. Of the six games scheduled for 1S97, but one was lost, and that to Chicago, 34 to 5. Among the victories may be noted a 4—0 defeat of Depauw, and a 34-6 win from the Michigan Aggies. Indiana and IlUnois appea.r for the first time on the '98 schedule, the former winning 11—5, and the latter losing 5-0. Michigan appeared again as our Nemesis, garnering the protracted end of a 23-0 score. 
With the termination of that year, it may be said that Notre Dame had concluded her apprenticeship. After that there appear such schools as Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, 
' jMichigan, and Chicago. The percentage of defeats diminishes appreciably, the number of victories expand in proportion. 
An ambitious roster of nine games for 1S99, resulted in decisive defeats for Indiana, North­western, Michigan Aggies and several, smaller colleges, and losses to Chicago, Micliigan and the hitherto vincible Chicago Physicians and Surgeons. The 3'^ear of the double cipher re-. suited in two ciphers for the Gold and Blue and taUies of 54 and 7 for Wisconsin and Mich­igan, respectively. Indiana txirned the.tables on the locals, and they in turn reversed the count of their conquerors of the preceding year, the Physicians and vSurgeons. [ Rush Medical and Cincinnati also succumbed, while Beloit by herculean efforts earned a tie. ;And. this year, it ^ere not irrelevant to remark^: is memorable for other reasons. It witnesses the' beginning of the great career of the justly. renowned Salmon,—Salmon whose .marvelous line smashing was the despair of opposing elevens, whose, wonderful, kicking averted many . an ^ impending-defeat, whose football gehius^^ was, 
; siich. as to earn him the position of fullback on , G. W. -Axelsou's AH-American selection.! for ^ 
his fellow warriors in 1902 Avere the Michigan 
Aggies. Indianai Ohio Medical, Depauw and 
the American/Medicals met the same fate. 
Micliigan and .Knox proved the exceptions, 
while Purdue with its remarkable faculty for 
tying the locals, again held them 6 to 6. 
The season of 1903 Js,especially noteworthy 

because not one of the eight competmg teamS 
was able • to score a single point against the 
defenders of the Gold and Blue. Northwestern, 
however, held them to a scoreless tie. Against 
the uninterrupted ser;ies of ciphers that bear 
testimdn)'- to the efficiency of Notre Dame's -defensive tactics, there, is martialled a grand total of 260 points., 
The "Little Giants" led off the following 

5'^ear, and were forced to content themselves 
with four points as against the 12 registered 
by Notre Dame. American Medical, Ohio 
Medical and Depauw were easy. Not so, 
however, Wisconsin, Kansas or Purdue. These 
latter annexed the substantial end of the score ,by margins rather too liberal to leave much solace for the vanquished. . 
But it reihained for 1905 to sound the depths 

of defeat and vicissitude. Deprived of the 
invaluable talent of \Salmon and several of 
his most noteworthy teammates, the colors 
of Notre Dame;were "trailed." by Wis,consin, 
Wabash, Indiana and Purdue. In partial 
atonement for these defacers of our. escutcheon, 
we succeeded.in swamping .the. MichiganjAggies, 
Depauw, Bennett Medical. a.nd American Med­
ical, the last by the .overwhelming scoreipf;i42 to 
nothing.-. 
The sweetness of ireyenge,-not long:deferred, 
was experienced when Purdue was vanquished . in a desperate encounteri 2 to o. The Michigan Ag^ie.r game.. .was featiired only by, the -small score rolledup by Notre Dame., But; the five fMDints recorded,: f^^^ the Hoo.siers ha'd-s all the 
AU-Time. • Apropos of the peffprmanSes: of; the . merit bfiathQiisand, for they sufficed to win. : aubiirn-haired paragon, Axelson remarks,'" That;, .The;;Physicians arid Surgeons accepted defeat Salmon was able to carry the baU, nine _tiines' .TOth .the-good gra^ of: repeated experience, 
• oiit^of ten; and\ make, his ;(iistance.ey^ry, time,..; and ^ the 5 smaller. coUeges' B.elpit, Fra.nklin and , stamps; him: as thie greatest-line plungmg^mll-: HiUsdalfe= (of {. 10. toj^ip. ;fame) bowed to the : « back .in the history^ of tie garne.'!' '<-/£'%;>' ;:. 11 /meyitable^ m^ engendered 
: {'Tb&f^sifjeai^ ofy the;, new cehtnip^rmarked^ IJ the jrecprding bfc but 'one defeat: in aj^series of • ;:^;3ght ^batoesj. and;^ by but; twb'rpbmts ;to >; |. ISrbrtfiwe^^^^ ' Vvf^&J^tmayLbe^ y-:^ndf ^e^rCficagc tPhysicra^ 
[:f :;^^;TEe-&sC 



m0m^mm»^^m 

;of il.ongl|)r^^ice^ 2 to o victory pre­
•yented; the;;" \moleskin, heroes from 
jbpastmgja%cleaii slafe. ; Again the next: season We.iiefeatedl'urduei^t^ andfKiipx^^^^^ The sinaU fry went doWn .&:s:::lusual;!^^^ (tti^ autumn;'of. ,1908 cariie thej^^&st reaU^ 
^-i?v!?i^^^--:>:p.P-?:^r:-:. 

years. Indiana, Wabash, Marqiiette) •" Ohio Northern and the smalier colleges,' as St.'Viateur's Franklin and Hillsdale, fell before the brilliant slashing onslaught of the ^Notre Dame 'eleven. Only the phenomenal kicking' of Allerdice ^averted a similar fate for Michigan, and' even then the best that' Yost's aggregsLtion could do was to run up twelve points against our six. With the defeat of Indiana came the champion­ship of the state, and the assurance that the representatives of Notre Dame constituted 
' one of the very best teams in the entire West. In the stirring struggles of' '08, Miller, Dolan, Edwards and' Philbrook gave some intimation of what they were to accomplish during the next' campaign. 
Nineteen hundred and nine! What memories it holds for Yost! What glories for the G'old and Blue! When indeed shall fade the memory of that "practice game" when Notre Dame was" the practicer and the Wolverines to all intents .and purposes the "practicees?" Probably no line in the country could have successfuU}'-'; with­stood that smashing onslaught. ^ Certainly Mich-^ 
igan could not, and when Miller and Dolan, Vaughan and Philbrook had done their worst, Michigan's supremacy was a thing of fondest memory only, and Notre Dame, in avenging past defeats, had incidentally won the champion­ship of the West. How fitting that Notre Dame should have been initiated into the mysteries of the game by Michigan. How maddening that Longman should have been, the erstwhile pupil of Yost. • '" : 
Miller was the All-Western selection for 
right half, and Vaughan season, the men and the remembered. 
Notre Dame was willfflg 
 for fulltack. The  games will long be • ' i^ ' ; • 
 to repeat thelper­

formance in 1910, but Michigan cancelled the tilt at the last hour. Then to add to our dis­comfiture, the Michigan Agricultural College "got the jump" on the locals in some inex­plicable fashion, and won 17 to' o.;^ They thereby achieved the distinction' of being the last eleven to defeat the Gold and Blue.? Over ^ the lesser lights,—and they predominated on the schedule—Notre Dame scored easy vic­tories. A victory over Wabash and ties -with Marquette and Pittsburg featured the ;^ season of 1911. Last year we won the;State .Cham­pionship from Wabash, defeated Pittsburg 3-0, swamped Marquette 69-0, and' snowed' under the usual quota of secondary schools.; "EicHen­
SCHOLASTIC ^65 

laub, our marvelous fullback, was unanimous choice for the all-Western eleven. This .year's greater achievements will be dealt-with fully elsewhere. , SuflSce to say that - we' have con­quered in the East, the West,' and .the South. From the picturesque banks of the Hudson to the placid plains of Texas, the Gold and Blue has flown in triumph. In defeating the^Army we exhibited the "finest forward passing ever seen in the East." ^By comparative scores we are better than Yale. By actual battle-test, the • Notre Dame team is superior to West Point, Penn State, Texas). South Dakota, Ohio Northern and Christian Brothers. • • jOne man graces an ail-American selection as quarter. Another is second choice for ail-American honors as fullback. Three have been unanimously selected for the all-Western.., Two more Notre Dame stars are second-choice, selections: . Of all claims to the Western Championship,-ours is probably the strongest and most logical. ^ 
Notre Dame's deeds on the gridiron have been chronicled for over a quarter of a century. Such names as those of Salmon, Mullen, Farley, Eggeman, Harley, Philbrook, Dimmick, MiUer Vaughan, Eichenlaub, Kelly, Dorais and Rockne will not be soon forgotten. Yet they are but 
. a few of a list that could be extended indefinitely. Such, coaches as Tiering, McWeeny, O'Dea,"^ Barry, Longman, Marks and. Harper will - be long, remembered as the unseen factors in our success. _ /> ' 
Schedules, "stars," and plays,.like the shin guard, the "flying wedge" and the nose guard, have gone the way of the buffalo. The football world moves rapidly. What was an innovation yesterday will be obsolete tomorrow. 'The great Adctories, the stars of the. moment, are soon lost sight of in anticipation of the. next schedule. They are merged, enveloped •'as it were, in the past. But the records they, have made, the reputations they have buildedi up, still remain. They are the heritage of a brill­iant pasti making for a stiU more glorious future. Notre- Dame has battled East and> West with most remarkable success. And :to those^ of discernment, it will be evident that the, end-is not yet. And when other men and.other teams have achieved other "triumphs,; we who cherish the memories of '11 and '12 and^'is, will rejoice to inscribe the record of their ;^ attainments in those deathless annals of the Gold and Blue, now bright with the .names and deeds of-Dorais, Eichenlaub, Rockne, and other heroes of today. 
The Champions of the West. 
WILLIAM M. GAL\r[N, 14. 
Reviewing the season of '13 puts the writer in the same class with a swain tr3dng to de­scribe his" lady love. Words utterh'- refuse to be gathered into a combination that will do it justice. All the descriptive power of Homer added to the insight of Shakespeare would fall short. And leaving these bush-league writers for the trul}'' great, we believe . that even the New York, sporting scribes with all their "brilliants," '' spectaculars," " dazzlings," and "superbs," that greeted our team after the Army game, must get less than a passing mark on their work. But the}'' did their best: we can do no more than follow suit. 
Here in the V/est, we are con­ceded an equal claim to sectional honors by even the most biased. Chicago critics admit that the Var-sit}'- is the equal of the Maroons and concede that we have the edge on Nebraska, Michigan, and the Michigan Aggies. Detroit critics,­in turn, admit that the Gold and Blue eleven is the equal of any­thing in Michigan, and believe we are somewhat superior to Chicago. Eastern critics, whose judgments 
.are tempered by distance, readily 
concede the Western Championships 
to- Notre Dame. The. East .how­
ever, is inclined to place Harvard 
ahead of the Varsit}'- as the all-round 
team of America. The West, view-. 
ingthe same field, thinks that there 
CoACH 
are at., least a quartet of elevens west of the Alleghenies that are' better than the best in the East. All this reminds us of the vote, taken hj the Greek generals after the battle of- Salamis to determine which general showed the greatest bravery. Each voted him­self first and Themistocles second. In sectional and national championship tangles, Notre Dame holds the place of Themistocles. It is awarded second by aU, although, they vote themselves first;. /Hence it is no idle.boast to say that* we are Champions of the West. 
We of the present have no doubt that Var-sit}'" '13 is the greatest eleven that ever did honor to the Gold and Blue, and our belief is borne out by the "old timers" who saw the excellent work of the '01 wonders and of the '09 Champions of the West. It is the greatest team in many wa3'^s. It pla^'^ed a greater schedule, against greater foes, displayed greater team-work, won greater renown, and counted among its number greater individual stars than any other team Notre Dame has known. 
•The year began auspiciously in some ways; inauspiciously in others. The sched­ule arranged by Coach Harper was the best ever gotten together for our eleven, including, as it did, South Dakota, the Arm}'^, Penn State and Texas. But to get these games worthy of the mettle of our Varsit}'-, it was necessary to go a thousand miles to the east and fifteen hundred miles to the south, handicapping our men by distance greater than any other team in the country did this seasjon. It meant, besides travel­ling long distances and playing our strongest enemies on their own fields, that we would have to over­come the added handicaps of new water and strange weather. We had to pla}' under ever}'" conceivable disadvantage, and when the season opened we admit we entertained fears for the Varsity. 
To reassure us, we had the knowledge that most of the last 3'^ear's men would be back. "WTio could ask for a greater heritage than Capt. Rockne, ex-Capt. Dorais, Eichenlaub, Feene}'^, Jones, Pliska, 

 HARPER. 
Berger, Fitzgerald, Finegan, Gus­hurst, Larkin, Lathrop, andj a generous quota of .first class reserves? It is true,, we -lost Crowley and Dolan, an excellent pair of ends, and Harvat and Yund, tackles, which losses made -room. for misgivings concerning the strength of the forwards. 
As the season advanced, however, our con­fidence grew. The beautiful fighting spirit with which the Varsity played and won the South Dakota game, after an accident had allowed the " Coyotes" to take the lead, in­spired hope that never grew less. Then when 
y 

our perfect forward  
passes added to ter­ 
rific line - smashing  
trailed West Point's  
colors in the dust we  
felt sure, as we do  
now, that Varsity  
'13 has no equal in  
the countr}'-. Penn  
State was taken into  
camp b}"- our men  
after we had covered  
twenty-five hundred  
miles the previous  
week. The score of  
14 to 7 does not  
adequately tell our  
superiority over the  
Quakers, but it can  
CAPT. ROCKNE  be gleaned another  
All-Western End  way. Varsity hum­ 
bled  the Army 35 to  13; Army trounced the  

Navy 22 to 9; the Na^^ in turn defeated Penn State 10 to o. At St. Louis the Christian Brothers were hopelessly outclassed. The field was as heav}?" as a ncAvly plowed field; the re­serves played most of the time, and then had no difiiculty in winning. As a fitting close to the season Capt. Rockne led his men against Texas, Champions of the Southwest. Here again the superb physical condition of our men and their knowledge of the game made them­selves apparent. In summer weather and against 
men who outwcighted them, the Varsit}'-first wore out and then scored at will on the strongest team ever devel­oped in the SouthAvest. 
More than ever before Notre Dame has been given the recognition that is its just due. Both in head­lines and in cartoons we have taken our place with the greatest in the country. 
Perhaps the most pleasing of all our • successes is the recognition wrung from" the critics who have picked all-section and all - American teams. This year we have won more distinction than BrcHENLAUB, All- any other Notre Dame team Western Fullback • in history, and more than 
any other team in the West for the season just closed. Dorais, than whom there is no better football player, has grown to such a height (speaking foot­bally) that Eastern critics have been forced to see him above the Appalachians, and he has been picked by practically all who have made all-Araerican selections. Western dopesters have been unanimous in select­ing a trio of our stars for all-Western honors: Dorais at quar­ter-back, Rockne at end, and Eichenlaub at fullback. There is one ridiculous exception, where a coach has picked practically his own team for 
DORAIS. All­
all-jSIichigan, all-Western, and 
AmericanQuarter 
all-America n. His only mis­take was in not awarding himself both end-positions. On second all-Western choices we find Feeney at Centre and' Pliska at halfback, making Notre Dame's representation by far the greatest of any school in this section. We believe that the experts are overlooking something mighty good when they pass up Jones, but it's a great deal to ask to get half of one eleven on the all-Western. The all - Indiana critics' opinions can't be given much weight. Last year they refused to give Dorais an all-state berth when he came within" an ace of hooking all - Western. This 3''ear they have had to recognize our all-Western first team men, and. they have also recognized Eeeney as all-State centre (one, by the way, leaves noth­ing to be asked for by us, having put "Al" on the all-State, all-Western, and ail-American), but when such men as Jones are slighted to give place to a member of some normal school we begin to think that the state critics are LINE COACH' 

no more serious than EDWARDS 
THE NOTRE DAME
Gardner was when he picked eight Eastern 
men on his all-Western eleven. 
Besides winning all this renown for Notre .Dame, the Varsity has brought laurels to the 
West b}' winning from Army and Penu State. Coach Harper, a product of the West himself, has raised the West above the East in football this 3'^ear, and to him much of the season's success must be attributed. He found the ver}'^ best of material, it is true, but he added finishing touches, here and there, developed new men, w^orked out new pla3"s, inspired the never-sa3''-die and stick-together spirit in his men, and his reward is a perfect season. He has brought Notre Dame athletics to conform to Conference regulations, by ruling freshmen ineligible for the Varsity; he has made the success of the season possible by scheduling big games for the Gold and Blue; he coached the best team that ever graced Cartier Field. 
But when we search for the ultimate cause of" our triumphs w^e must admit that it was the-machine-like precision of the squad. No man played for himself, but all pla3''ed for victors'-. It is true that Dorias, with his perfect forward passing, his nimble field-running, his accurate toe, and his heady generalship, was one of the greatest factors of our victories ;­it is also true that Capt. Rockne's catching of Ddrais' passes, his beautiful interference, and his deadly tackling made him the most valuable man in the line, and that Eichenlaub's powerful line smashing made him occupy a like position in the backfield; but when all is said and done, it was the team that won the battles. 
Yes, the teaiii won the battles, but the "subs'." and "scrubs," and their coach, "Cap" Edwards, had a whole lot to do in putting them in condition to win. Theirs is a thankless task—rthe reserves'. They go out daily and withstand the knocks and bruises of - their stronger,squad-mates; they work as. hard as the nien on the Varsity eleven, but when the day of battle is at hand, the}'- are forgotten in the greater glory of the regulars. But to cull a phrase from the classic vocabular3^ of the Texas galler3'--gqds who greeted the teain, "We know you. Scrubs, and we appreciate 3'-ourv work.',' 
We dohot envj'^ Yost his. football squad, . ' 
• Far better-teams each one of us. can find, ;. Biitwheh.he^picked his all-American . j ;':"We envied Mrl Yost his state of niind. 

^rtSlj^Si^r^.^" 


SCHOLASTIC 
Looking Backward—1953. 
HUGH V. LACEY, '16. 
The old "gink" sat in,his big arm-chair 
And never a move moved he. 
There on his chest was a sweater vest 
Of blue, and .bright loomed up the crest 
or a great, big, gold N. D. 
His dome was bowed with the heft of years 
And gray as a badger's fur. 
And in his eyes I could recognize 
A "pine" for the days of the old, old guys,— 
He sighed for the teams that were. 
Past glory's staunch custodian. 
Immovable he sate.. 
When I sneaked near to his one good ear 
And said '-We've got some team this year," 
Thus did he ruminate: 
'Have you a 'Rock' to lead your push?" His croaking voice began, 'Or a midget 'Dory' to cop off glory From fields with foeman's blood made gox}., Or a single Finegan?" 
'Have you a Pliska or a Jones, 
A Feeney or Lathrop, 
An Eichenlaub, to start the throb 
Of joy a-spurting through the mob 
When the other plungers flop?" 
'A Gushurst holding down the wing, 
A Fitz. stuck in between, 
A good, old Keefe, and, to be brief. 
Great subs?—No chaff in the wheated sheaf 
Of those 'Champs'—Nineteen Thirteen!" 
Then reminiscent stirred his soul, ; 
He sighed-"Gadzooks,'alas, ... ' 
When they ran amuck, with ,that shifting buck 
They hit the line like a Kelly truck. 
Or histed a forward pass.". 
I harked unto the old man's words 
.Then.beat it on my way. , / 
The thing I spoke seemed but a joke 
Beside the Ancient's truthful croak 
" How those warriors , could play " 
Yea, dowii in history they've goney :' , 
And nicked the Hall of Fame. / 
Though they drop away in the world's decay 
And. are resolved - b ack into clay, • ­
They'll live at Notre Dame.. .' ' 
•i-­


iHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 

The Team. 
TIMOTHY GAI^VIN, '16 . 

Notre Dame's unparalleled success this year is due primarily to her team and not to any individual stars. The team is composed, how­ever, of eleven individual stars and as man}­substitutes who would be stars if they were on any other team in the country. To do justice to the men on printed pages is impossible and we attempt the task only because to pass them by without mention would be greater injustice. 
" KNUTE RocKNB, Captain, End. 

To be captain of the 1913 team is an honor and it could not have fallen upon a more worthy man than Knute. He was a* willing, a faithful, an ideal leader, and a team that followed whither he led could not have failed to win. The duties of leadership did not interfere with Rockne's playing, but rather inspired him to greater efforts. "Rock" was severe!}'- injured in the first game of^ the season, but he rejoined the squad as soon as possible and fought his way to all-State and all-Western honors. He took care of his end in the way that had made him an idol for tAvo previous seasons, breaking up plays and using his wonderful speed and strength to the best advantage. It was in the open-field work, however, that Rockne starred this 5'"ear. Time after time, he raced away from the line of scrimmage and gathered in the long passes from the unerring hand of Dorais, or downed in his tracks the opponent who received a punt. "Rock" gathered in a forward pass for the first touchdown against Army, and a week later repeated the play at Penn State. Our captain finished his football career Thanksgiving day. His loss to the '14 squad will be severely felt. 
CHARLES DORAIS, Quarterback. 

Alexander wept for .more worlds to conquer. Well might our "Dory "d o likewise, for today he is king of the football world. For four years he has directed our teams. He has led our warriors to. twenty-seven victories, and only one defeat. "Whether Fate smiled or frowned upon our iiicomparable general, he was always the same. With dogged, but brainy.persistence he kept chuckling Fame under the chin, as it were, until she had to smile. Year after. year, he has grown better, and this year h,e has at­tained to a perfection unequalled in the football world. There'is no department of the game which he has not mastered. Running a iream, 
punting, drop kicking, open-field running, fqr^ . 
ward passing—at all these he is at home and*, 
admits no superior in the East, South, or West.. 
It is hard to imagine a Notre Dame team.with^ 
out a Dorais, but "Dorv^" will be hitting'the 
world with as much success next year as he was 
football this, and we must let him go: We 
offer you the full measure of our gratitude, 
Dorais, for the glory you have won for Us. 
To mention that you have been accordedc 
all-American quarterback" position by even-
prejudiced critics would be to repeat a »fact • 
oft told by now. 
RAYMOND EICHENLAUB, Fullback. 

For three years, Eichenlaub has been the mainstay of the backfield. We have become " so used to seeing him there and so confident of-his ability that we shudder to think of the time when the Gold and Blue must go on the field without him. His terrific spe^d, his buU-dog courage, and his ability to hit the fine for a gain when everj'-thing else fails, has made him . one,of the greatest players of his day. This is the second time he has won all-.Westem hondrs, which is some honor in itself, and "Eich" has taken a place in Notre Dame's hall of footbaU, fame beside Salmon and Yaughan, making the greatest trio of fullbacks any school has ever > produced. Eich is the heaviest man on the team, weighing 195 pounds, but he is fast-as a rabbit, and more than once this year he has surprised" opponents by getting awa^?- on long ; end runs. Luckily he will be spared to the '14I Varsity. When "Dorj^" is gone, "Eich" will likely be called upon to do the kicking. If-Camp will but notice what our fullback can-do* with his trusty right toe, and then consider his': all-round offensive and defensive ability, we-, feel sure that he will escort Miss All-America ­on her second visit to Notre Dame. L "-' 
ALBERT G. FEENEY, Centre. • --i^ : 

Feeney is one of the quartet of Notre Dam^j^' stars who finished their college football careers ' against the Longhoms, Thanksgiving Day:; That he is an exceptional centre - is evidenced ­by the fact that Eckersall ranks him second^ only to Des J ardien of Chicago and by the,fact­that he has twice been selected all-State centre. . '' Al'' was pitted against inenhea\aer than himself , in almost ever}'- game, but he was always^able;-;, to outplay his man. -The Indianapolis youths was the key.of the Varsity attack and defense.j; He is perfect with his passes of the ball, couldi^^ 
<^-i^ 
-^-.^-fffjf^. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
open holes on offense, and was a strong factor in our secondary defense. "Wide awake" sums up "Al" in a game. This 3-ear he inter­cepted two passes, which, if completed, would have meant scores for opponents. One of these at Penn State would have tied the score. We \\dll be sorry to lose Feeney, and his memor}'^ will live mth all those who have seen him play. 
JOSEPH S. PLISKA, Halfback. Fleet of foot, a sure tackier, master of the art of recei\nng passes, able to pick holes in an Opponent's defense or to rnake them for himself, Pliska is an ideal halfback. This is Joe's third year in football and as his experience grows, his worth to the Gold and Blue becomes greater. Pliska struck his real stride in the Army game. Pie picked passes out of the clouds, hit the Cadet line for long gains, and skirted the ends 
like  the  wind.  He  never  plays  below  form,  
although  he  is  spectacular  at  times.  Pliska  
was  EckersalFs  choice  for  second  all-Western  

this 3'^ear, and will have a chance to make the iirst pick next 3'^ear. KEITH K. JONES. Tackle. 
" Deac" is the one best bet that the all-section critics has overlooked this year. We do not beHeve he has a superior in the countr}'-, al­though all-Western, and even all^State critics have given positions to tackles who play on normal schools in prefereiice to him. He is absolutely without fear, and although he pla^'^s a careful game, he .plays hard all the time. He is a sure tackier and impenetrable-on defense. There is not a harder man on the team. Al­though knocked out in the first minute of play in the South Dakota game, he came back with a grin on his face, and Capt. Brown of the Co3'-otes was forced to the wall. After the Army gaine. Coach Harper said: " I wouldn't trade Jones for any tackle in the country; he's light, but he can handle them all." No wonder Coach Harper made this, remark, for" "Deac" 
, had worn out five men in the game. In Texas he wore out three men, the first enjoying the reputation of never having been taken out of a game in three AT^ears. He will 'pla)'':next A'^ear, and refusal to-award him all-Western honors-will put -the critics in a strange position. 
• FREDERICK GUSHURST, End. 

r Tn Gusluirst, Rockne had a fit'rurining mate. Anbldinterhall selection of two years' standing, .he showed his mettle on the Varsity last season as substituted half back. Ends'were-scarce Jthis fall, however, and." Giis'' went in to fill "Chuck-' '• Crowley's old shoeS. He made good with a bang. Hc-can gather in forward passes, and when called upon, can hit the line. He has few superiors in breaking up interference. He -was especialh'- good against his South Dakota compatriots, and against the Army. All-West­ern honors Avere not too good for him, but critics tremble to place more than five men of one team on tlieir selections. 
CHARLES T . FINEGAN, Halfback. 

We are proud of Finegan because he has been developed from interhall material. Two years ago he Avas a Corby star. Last year he won a monogram as a substitute for Dorais and Eichenlaub. This year Sam has proved one of the surprises of the season. He was injured at the beginning of the season but returned to the game in time to take Berger's place when the latter was hurt. Finegan has a powerful plunge and a knack of twisting as he hits the Hne that carries him through for good gains. He can also catch passes, and best of all, he loves the game. Finegan will return to the squad next season, and if no new star is developed will likely be a candidate for quarterback. 
FREMONT FITZGERALD, Guard. 

This was "Fitz's" second A'-eai: on the team, and the big Oregonian played a splendid game at guard. He was the biggest man in the line, and not an ounce "of his strength was wasted. In the Penn State and Arm}'- games "Fitz" pla3'^ed the Eastern linemen off their feet. He stopped pla^^s that came his way and often broke up opposing pla)'-s before the}'' could get started. At the offensive game he is a "bear." He played at centre in the Christian Brothers game, and may find a regular berth at the pivotal position next year. . 
RALPH G. LATHROP, Tackle. 

Lathrop was drafted from interhall circles in the middle of the season last year and under the efficient coaching of Dunbar developed into a strong lineman. His work in the Pittsburg and St. Louis games won him a monogram. This season he was shifted to tackle and proved a consistent player. Long and rangy he covers a great deal of ground and is a power on de­fense. "Slim" is a,; game fighter with plenty of football'brains. He and Jones vshoidd make another pair of-tackles such as Dimmick and Philbrook= were; • ; ./ 
EMMETT" 'KEEFE,' Guard. Keefe was the only'new man on the team. He was on the squad all of last-year but ha^ 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
little opportunity to show his ability in games. 
He is a quiet worker and few considered him 
for a regular berth at the start of this season. 
But the down-state boy has a world of weight 
and strength, and he was just the man to fill 
the gap left by Yund. He played his best game 
against Penn vState when he was most needed. 
He has two more years to play. 
ARTHUR B . LARKIN, Halfback. 
Xarkin, like Finegan, is a former interhall 

man. "Bunnie" was kept off the regular 
team only by such fast men as Pliska and 
Finegan. His expert dodging makes him a 
splendid halfback. He was used in ever)* big 
game except the Penn State conflict, and always 
acquitted himself Avell. He will return. 
ALLEN H . ELWARD, End. 
Flward was the lightest man on the line, 

but-his playing in the South Dakota game was 
nothing short of marvellous. Time" after time 
he spilled the interference and threw the runner 
•and it was a delight to see him pull down forward passes. When Capt. Rockne came back to the game, "IMal" had to give way, but we alwaj's felt secure because Ave knew he could handle the job if anA'thing turned up. 
WILLIAM J- COOK, Guard, Tackle 

Cook Avas one of the Reserves Avho took the kicks and cuffs of the Varsity last year without receiving any honors. This year he Avas one -of the strongest men on the squad and the 
regular linemen had to fight every minute to 
keep "Bill" from displacing them. Cook got 
his chance against South Dakota after Jones 
was forced out. He went in and held BroAvn, 
the AA'^estern giant, in CA'^ery play. He also 
AA^orked the full gam.e against the Christian 
Brqthers and half of the Longhorn contest. 
ALBERT V. KING, Guard. 

King AA^as on the Corby team last year,, and AA^on all-hall honors. This 3'"ear he was called out for the Varsity and made good. "Al" dcAJ^eloped wonderfulty under the coaching of "Cap " HdAA'ards and surprised CA'-en his friends by his playing. King charges hard- and is in every play. . He played in all the minor games, and was'Used at guard .against South" Dakota, Christian Brothers, and Texas. -. -; • 
ALVIN BERGER, Halfback. 
Berger was the most unfortuiiate man on • 

the team. Just when it seemed that he was" 
to have another great year at half, "Heine" 
Avas forcgd to leave the squad with an injured 
leg. He-got- back--just. irfrtime t o put sup-onHof— his old-time games against South Dakota carr}nng the ball for many gains. Soon after this game, Berger Avas again forced out by injuries and he did not get into any of the games in the latter part of the season. "Heine" AA'^as a splendid back in 'ii and '12 and if he had been fit he would have been as good this year. 
EDAVARD D . DUGGAN, Fullback. 

Duggan went out for full this year, knowing that there Avas no chance to displace "Eich," but Eddie played as though there Avere no other fullback in the Avest. Duggan starts fast^ and hits the line IOAV. He shoots through the line like a bullet, and seldom fails to gain substan-. tially. Eddie Avent into both the South Dakota and the Texas games during the last quarter,' and Coyotes and Eonghoms Avere alike power­less before him. He AA^U be back. 
ALFRED BERGM.A.N, Halfback. 

"We thought that Simmons Avas the fastest article aliA^e, but when that little Bergman got into the game, he Avent like a streak of greased lightning." This comment from Texas sums up the situation when "Dutch" is con­cerned. Not heavy, but fast and brainy, he is able to make long gains. We can never forget his feat of tAvo years ago, when he caught the ball behind his OAA'U goal and carried it n o yards for a touchdoAvn. We shall be glad to see him back next year. 
THE RESERVES. 

Kelleher, one of our most valuable plunging halfbacks, was kept out of the game again this year by injuries, and he Avas not able to show AA^hat is in him, but with better luck next year 
-he AA'ill be one of the most valuable men on the squad. Mills and Nowers, of basketball ex­perience, were a AJ-aluable pair at receiving passes and in playing the end positions as a whole. "Curly" snatched the ball out of the air and ••.carried it OA^er for a score in the .South Dakota game, and Mills did a like feat at Texas. Both Avill return: McLaughhn and Voelkers worked at center all year. The return of Feeney pre­vented thern from securing a regular berth, but they proved efficient-understudies for the all-State pivot :man. . Bush , and Sharp were the other men who- stayed out all; season. The former worked at quarter and ,the latter in the line. "Hardy" and "Art "are-worthy of great praise, for. their part in developing our great team,- and .we expect t o hear from both 
piLinext .y.ear':s.:squad;Jii'% : ^f l 1 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Freshman Team.' " 
R. DOWNEY. 
The husky Notre Efame Freshman squad 

deserves special praise because of |th^ successful 
work accomplished b}';^ this neVly', gathered 
eleven. It was hard tr35ing work for them all 
the way through the season. Father Farley who 
had the team in tow worked witlijtiiem every 
afternoon and was repaid by tur|iing out one 
of the strongest first-j'^ear teams in' the country, 
one of which any coach i might b^ proud. 
It was the first year for a freshmani te4m at Notre Dame, and on this account 'onlv? a liinited number of contests were scheduled, ibtct the showing made on every occasion was creditable, and their scrimmages Avith the Varsity, especially, showed the rnettle of the men. 
In the contest with Culver Military Academy, October ii, they defeated .the Cadets by the score, 6^0. This game, however, was no cri­terion of their strength as the team at that time had. only recentlj'^ been organized. On Nov. 8, - the yearlings journeyed to Toledo and defeated the fast Tpledo High School, ip-o. . 
The,-showing of the freshman, teatii this ,3'ear should certainly make us confident of the strength of the Varsity during the. next few j^ears. The freshman line outweighed the Varsity forwards and was not far behind them 
in fighting ability. With little coaching and 
another ^i-ear's experience man}'- of these men 
will be able to secure berths on the first team. 
The uniformity of team-work throughout the season did not interfere with brilliant in­dividual work done by such .stars as Cofall, Bachman, Yager, Thorpe and O'Donnell. In Bachman, Cofall and King the Freshmen had three men who could punt close to fift}'^ yards at every attempt. 
Captain Cofall, the exrEast High School star of Cleveland, is the open-field runner and line plunger extraordinary of the eleven. He ex­hibits wonderful skill at punting and drop kicking, is clever with the forward pass, and one of the best defensive, piayers in the backfield. 
King and Miller both look like comers at the end positions and if necessar}'- Yager can easil}'^ be shifted to one of the wings. Kowalski and Bachman did most of the line' plunging and even the strong Varsity line was not always able to hold. them. Bachman is heralded by the knowing ones as a coming Eichenlaub. He is a powerful linesman as well as charging fullback. 
Thorpe, pilot of the- eleven, used splendid judgment in running his team. He is a sure tackier, delivers the forward pass with great accuracy,' and is. good at running back punts. 
All in all we have nothing but praise for every member of the new team and we feel siure that the work done b}'^ them this year is work done for next year's Varsity.. 
M,.. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The above selections were chosen from lists Heroes All. 

made up by the-men who refereed the games. This plan was followed instead, of having the 
Sing to us. Muse, who sang brave deeds at Troy; coaches select the men, as they did la.st year, be­
Sing in heroic verse the warriors bold. cause it was thought that the refereesi being 
Who fast end runs and the forward pass employ, in the thick of the games, could get a closer line 
Striving to triumph for the Blue and Gold. • • on.the performers than the coaches. The only 
Tell us with pomp how Dorais' accurate .toe' rule guiding their selection was that no man
Dismayed the Army and brought Penn State woe. should be put in a position that he had not 
I've just had a line from-the poetic Muse 
, played regularly during the interhall season. 
With. many fond thanks for the generous invite,­

While this.is hard on such men as Thorpe, star 
But saying: " I fear that it is of no use; " ' -, . 
quarterback for the Freshmen, Capt. Riedman 
Your gridiron 'Champs' are entirely too good. 

of Brownson and others, still it is only fair to 
With due credit to them I never could write. 
the men: who worked at one place throughout Besides I belong to the scribes' brotherhood. 
the. contests. For my dope on football, I'd be banished, by all. 
Badjan, at left end, is undoubtedly the best 

In tlie East by Walt Camp; in. the AVest, Eckersall.'' 
to be. found for that position. A hard, smashin,g 
W. L. C. 

tackier", a fast man down the field under punts, 
«-»-» The Interhall Season, 1913. and full}'' able to carry the ball when occasion 
required, Harry put up a "great game- King 
J. CLOVIS SMITH, 15. possessed an equalh' good claim to the other 
, wing. His tall, powerful build enabled him to break through the interference and get the 
Brownson, o; Corby, o; vSorin, 12;' Corby, 7 runner "ivith regularity. His special depart­
Sorin, 15; Brownson, 9; Walsh, 31; Brownson 6 ment was receiving forward passes, and in this 
Corby, 7; Walsh, 7; Walsh, 26; Sorin," 1-4 "way he" gained many yards for Corbj''. Mc-
WTien Walsh and Sorin staged the last act Queeney and Morales have been given the end in the interhall football drama of 1913, -the positions on the second team. 

curtain rang down on one of the most successful -At fight tackle.. Bachman, the 200-pound seasons of recent years. The playing of the Englewood High star, .was without a peer. On Various teams was characterized iu general by the.vdefense," he stopped all the plays directed the same fast, snappy, clever work that won at his side of the line, and on the offense was fame" for their big brother, the Varsity. It is able to,make good holes jn his opponents' line.. 
no exaggeration to say that any of the interhall In ^ O'Donnell" of Sorin he had a fit mate. • 
aggregations could defeat a good many college .Built for the position he plaA^ed a powerful teams—in fact, they did it during the season. " 
aggressive game. He was closely rivalled b\' The new rules enacted this year, making 
"Riedman of Brownson and Carroll of Walsh, freshmen ineligible for the Varsity, but permit­
both, of whom were able to hold their own ting them to play interhall, greath'-. strengthened 
throughout the season. the latter. Another feature of this year's play, 
, ] Odam, playing right guard on the Champions, 
that.added greatly to the total success, was the made a splendid showing. Although a new man, fact that the hall teams were closely matched, he developed so rapidly under the coaching of which will contribute much to next year's Varsity. ­
" Deac" Jones that he became one of the best AI.IV-INTERHALL . SELECTIONS.. 
defensive players'in the league. At the other 
FIRST TEAM POSITION - SECOND TEAM. guard position. Holmes had a little the edge­Baujan;-Walsh , Left end ' . Morales," Brownson' 
ph iJie .rest* although • j\'Iiller and Playes were -j 
Bachman, Corby Left tackle '• y Carroll,-Walsh ;­_cldse seconds! . ;.:,_j.. V: .­
Holmes, Brojvnson Left" guard" --=' Miller,"^ Brownsoc"­;Meehan, Brownson , - Centre . ' ."'.' Daley,.. Corby - 'At centre there were three men to pick.from/ ^ -Odam, Walsh Right guard y . ;- Hayes;. Walsh-all of/"nearly the.rsanie calibre.; Meeharirjof;" -.Oj-Donnell, SorinT .. Right-tackle^ Eriedtri^atf.jBrownson,; -;Brp\\nison,'VDaley.of Corby,>an'd Shaughness^'^r 
King, Corliy " Right',end -'-McQueeiiey, Walsh"­
.of-Walsh,'form a-trip, any one of whom ,would ;' 
Wright,, Walsh Quarterback. - Hynes, Sorin 
not be out of place on.the-first tcarh. The 
Matthews, Walsh ' Right halfback Kinsella,'. Corby 
- position-has-been-given" to -Meehan, however^' 
Cofall, .vSpriri "" 7-'= "Left "halfback'" ~Kowalski,*"Wa"ls"h;­.Grady, Walsh " ' - Fullback •'• ~ "-'•-- Ni'gro, CloriJyC-.'bn-aecq.uat: qf^his good "defensive work, and es- :,: 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
to 
o 
I—I 
a 
t-r 
Pi 

pecially his success at breaking up plays through 
the line. Shaughnessy and Daley were just 
as good on the offense. 
The quarterback position presented the hard­est nut there was to crack. Wright and Hynes stand out as two splendid generals, equally adept in advancing the ball and equally clever with the forward pass." What slight superiority there is belongs to Wright for the steady, even way in which'he ran his team, and his knack of getting plays off fast. But when it came to catching the opponents off guard, Hynes was a wonder. Time and again, he tricked Walsh and Corby with some unexpected play. Wright is perhaps better in giving the runner inter­ference. 

Next to quarter, the fullback was" the hardest man there was to pick. Grady, Nigro and Finegan were almost equal claimants for the honor, but the place has been awarded to the former for his powerful line-plunging ability. In Nigro, Corby has a man who knew how to hit the line low and hard, and could pla}'-a strong game on the defense. 
Cofall and Matthews were the unanimous choice for the halfbacks, and further than that, they \yere the season's individual stars. No two men could present a greater contrast, and yet both were alike in that they possessed that rare" attribute, football brains, and an instinct to diagnose a play. Cofall's playing was all th ^ -kept Sorin in the race, and when on the defensive, nothing can be said in his faA^or that would be an exaggeration. Very fast, and a sure tackier, he never failed to smash any inter­ference and get his man. On offense his speed enabled him to circle the.ends for Ion?: trains: and his drives made his line-plunging equall}"­spectacular. 
To look at Matthews, one would never see in him a star of the first magnitude. He weighs 125 pounds, is ver\' slender in build. An ob­server would sooner pick Eichenlaub as a ping pong champion, than mark "Matty".for the fastest, cleverest, slipperiest player in in­terhall. His open-field running, especiall}' on returning punts, was the treat of the season. We would not hesitate to match Matthews and Cofall against most college halfbacks. 
Kowalski and Elinsella were both far above the ordinan,' in ability and are deprived of places only because of the very exceptional pair they were matched against. 
=i=*^ 

The following selection is made from the second preparatory'' teams. The first prepara­tory'' team is chosen entire for first place. 
ALL-STAR PREP SELECTION. 
BY WILLIE CASE. 
FIRST TE.A.M POSITION SECOND TEAM 

R. Brown, Walsh R. E. A. Brown, Walsh Mcllwee Brownson L. T. Brannon, Carroll Robinson, Walsh R. G. Boylan, Brownson Blackman, Carroll C. Berchem, Walsh Susen, Carroll L. G. Stonehill, Carroll Hubbell, Walsh R. T. Casey, Walsh McCarren, Carroll L. E-Ffrench, Brownson Armstrong, Walsh Q. B. Lockard, Brownson Barry, Carroll L. PI. • Hughes, Walsh O'Brien. Carroll R. H. O'Shea, Brownson Osterley, Carroll F. B. Taft, Brownson 
A Football Medley. 
FRANK HOG AN, 14. 
Cap. Rockne came down like a wolf on the fold, Then came the brave Army with inflated chest And his cohorts were wearing the blue and the gold, To take down the pride of the "audacious" West: O their unflinching grit struck such fear in the foes. "We care not for 'Eich' nor care we for 'Plisk,' South Dakota got dizzy and turned up her toes. We don't even think we are taking a risk." 
Then "Dory" put over a long forward pass. While the big Army line lay asleep in the grass. There was racing and chasing to break up the stride" But the brave Soldiers wavered, rolled over, and died. 
O the "rep "  of Penn State is now covered with dust.  Time  was  when the Lone Star had  never  a  care.  
And their record is strewn  on  the sands.  And defeats  for Penn State  were  but  few:  
And the "Cow-Punchers'" irons are  coated with rust.  But  now  they  are  certain the way players  fare  
gince they failed  to  deliver the brands.  When they meet with the Gold and the Blue.  

376 
Conclusive. 
Mr. Camp—^Yes, I maintain that Eastern teams-arp far superior to Western elevens, principal^ on account of Eastern methods. 
Western Coach—But, Mr. Camp, Notre Dame 

• defeated the Arm}'-and buried her under a larger score than Yale has been able to make against West Point in the six previous years, and the result was due altogether to the Western 
.—-method. Mr. C—But didn't the Army beat the Na\^? 
W. C.—^Yes, of course, and that proves Notre Dame is far superior to the Na^^ as well as the Arm}''. 

Mr. C.—^Not at all. It simpl}'' proves the __ Army was holding back for the Na\'3^ Notre, Dame was simply practice for her. 
W. C—Surely, Mr. Camp, you count scores in the East, don't you? Army beat Colgate; Notre Dame beat Army, and Colgate beat Yale bad—which proves— 
Mr. C.—^Siinply that Colgate was lucky. "\5^nien you remember that Harvard couldn't make a touchdown against Yale, you have to" admit Colgate was luck}';. . 

W. C.T—Was the West liicky in all the games played with Eastern Colleges? Four times,they played and four times they went away victorious which gives them an average of looo while you have simply ooo for an average. " 
Mr. C—-You . can't measure football ability 

^with a rule. .'You have to stand back and look at the teams, with a cool unprejudiced mind. A man who is everlastingly looking at scores becomes coiifused. ^It's the ability of. players and teams one must take into consideration. The East has aimed at developing scoring machines—perfect scoring machines. 
W: 6".—Ajid as a result of these perfectly developed scoring machines neither Har^'^ard , -nor,Yale"was able; to make a tpuchdpwn when 
„ they played .Neither, Princeton nor Harvard was able tomake a touchdown in their'game; andi neither ,Yale' nor Princetonv was able to ' 
:: 4.-mkke altouchdowh. .Is that the idea? : ;; -MrX Ci^Siihply adverse! conditions in thpsei ; : Igames.. -Adverse -conditions; ;;:,;:•-j -. ' ­'/>r-^W:C>-^^^^ the fact;thkt N/ D.-rolled up. a 
. Ikrger scofe.on;Axmydn bnergain^ .'^ ' i done iit-six^ games Jproves cohclusiyely that, the '^ i: .iWest.knpws^;iiqthlng faboutv-scqrihgfm^ ; ;^ A :rJ? MrT= ;G!.^See1he^^^ hian,":dpn'l be.-^ii­
diculous. If you have such fine teams in the West why doh't more of your'me'h^ get on my ail-American? Why is it that only one man from the West is chosen while as many as eight Yale men"have been picked? . , • 
W. C.-^Now, Mr. Camp, you've got me. That argument is conclusive. If you used it at first we would have had no squabble. It overthrows-scores, and games, and coaches, and methods. Now I, see thkt the East must be far superior to the West even /if it isn't. You're like the Eastern teams. You always hold your strongest, argument till after the game. 
^ w ^ 
The Immortals. . 
r 
Q. E. D—American Champions. CAUSK. • Dor A is Ro C kne M ills Eic H onlaub Ke E fe .-LA rkin Gushu R St Berg M an F I tzgerald . P liska Coa C hes ^ -F I negan L A throp Co O k. Jo N es / Fee N ey' 
S criibs EFFECT. • 

Ro C kne Gush U rst ' D 0 rais -Ki N g Eiche N laiib D uggan 
F inegan Now, E res Jon E s • Pli S ka Lath R op _ \:/ M I Us 
,Ke E. fe . ~ Elwa R. d Fee N ey LA rkin Cook B ergman Fitzg E.rald / Kel L eher --'.-. , 'j • . Vo E Ikers 
--., -. ,'•_. '-•'• •; 

. . —: J S crubs Proving that -things equal to the .same thing are equal -to each . other. :' • ,•/•-' , . JIM SEIVINS.. ­
..'Stimulatmg fWater. 
-Who. eyer heard ;ofc,takiIlg^ water V Wayjoff tolafpotbaiirgame? ./,'-. ' Biit; Harper:; said \they; really ^ought'er . Cause; Texas {water's-not:the fsarii^; ' 
Thej*^ putithejwater:in:a barrel;/-.^^-" .. . -It oncei w¥slfull-of'"wine,-"' ^-:;.' -; ^And\.eyery|tirneathe\:!to6k;a'.drink -.. 

. ;; :; piey. ;went :right;^t^^^ theV line. .; 
f ,' f^ • 
•(•^••.^^ii>^'-^?h:B

mummmmmmmim ^'Myr-^^MJA^I'"^
^Bi^ilK^:,^ 




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
377 
. Dope It Out for Yourself. 

Notre Dame, 20; South Dakota, 7; 
South Dakota, o; Minnesota, lo;' Minnesota, 13; Nebraska, 7; Minnesota, 7; . Chicago, 13; 
, South Dakota, 7; " Michigan Aggies, 19; 
Michigan Aggies, 12; Michigan, 7; Michigan, 33;" Vanderbilt, 2;. Michigan, 17; ' Gornell, o; Michigan, 13; Pennsylvania, o; 
Michigan Aggies, 12; Wisconsin', 7; Wisconsin, 7; Purdue, 7; Wisconsin, 12; Ohio State, o; 

Notre Dame, 35; Army, 13; 
' Army, 34; vStevens Institute, o; Army, 29; Rutgers, o; Army, 7; Colgate, 6; 
Colgate, o; Cornell, o; Cornell, o; Carlisle, 7; Cornell, 6; Harvard, 23; 
Colgate, 21; Amherst, o; 
Amherst, 7; Dartmouth,- 21; Colgate, 46; Hobart, o; Colgate, 16; Yale, 6; 
Yale, .19; Holy Cross, o; Yale, 20; Layfayette, o; Yale, 37; Lehigh, o'; 
.- Yale, 6; Wash, and Jefferson, o; 

^ _ Wash, and Jeff., 17; Penn State 6; Yale, 17; Brown, o; Yale,'3; Princeton, 3; Princeton, o; Harvard, 3; Yale; 5; Harvard, 15; Harvard, 47; Holy. Cross, 7; > Harvard, 29; , Penn State, o; Harvard, 37; Brown, o; Colgate, 27; Rochester, o; Colgate, 35; Syracuse, .13; Army, 2; Tufts, o; Army, 77; Albright, o; : Arm}'-, 22; _ Na.vy, 9; . Navy, o; Pittsburg, o; -• . Pittsburg, i2 ; Carlisle, 6; Pittsburg 20; Cornell, 7; _ Navy, 23; Georgetown, o; \ Navy,, 39; Lehigh, ,0; Na\'y, 70; Bucknell, 7; ^ Nav}'-, .10; Penn State, p; , ­Notre Dame, 14; Penri State, 7; ; Notre Dame, 30; Texas, 7;. Texasj 13; Sewanee, 7; .; ,". Texas, 13; .Oklahoma, 6'5. ' ' Texas, 42; '.Kansas Aggies. '7. ' 
Press Comments. 

Football men marvelled at the startling-display of., open football made by Notre- Dame against the Army. Bill Roper, former head" coach of Princeton who was one of the ofHcials of the game, said that he had always believed that such-playing was'possible under the new rules, but that he had never seen the forivard-pass developed to such a state, of perfection. 
—New York -Tzmes-. Every Notre Dame Man Spectacular. Dorais Makes Eyes Blink. Zigzag Runner First of His Grade Since Daly. No. Stopping Eichenlaiib. Headlines in NL"Y..5«'n. . The Army folks from General Leonard Wood down to the youngest substitute on the scrubs were shocked at the way the Army team was put to rout—N. Y. Times. Perhaps credit should be given to Western in­fluence for the Army's success against the Navy. Four weeks ago when, the cadets met Notre. Dame they were dazzled and confounded,by the Westerners' open attack and the lesson struck deep—N. Y. Sun. Notre Dame played the fastest brand of football seen in the East in years.—New York Herald. . •, And Notre Dame ypu thoroughly convinced .me you were there. . You whipped each tough opponent with.a bunch of points to spare. And if 'twere up to me to pick the country's all-star team . = I'd have old Gold and Blue for my prevailing color scheme. —W. Lardner, Chicago Tribune. No matter what the historians may say about the days of Greece's glory being forever gone, there is one descendant of the Athenians of" whom his ancestors' might be proud. His name is Dorais and' he. plays in the backfield for Notre Dame. This Famese Her­cules came to life, plaj's marbles with 16-pound shots, wrestles with. everything, including problems -in ' trigonometry; speaks nine languages—many of • them at once, and hoists men weighing anywhere -from. 200-pounds up over his head with one iand. ; *He is a hear of a football player and an expert ait opening eggs at the breakfast table. It is said by a Phila­delphian who has seen him in action that the whole fif­teen eggs do not tire him a particle.—^New York Sun. According to D. Williams the West this year has several teams that are on a par Avith Harvard, Prince-, . ton and Yale and it is the opinion of the Minnesota mentor that.the rest of the eastern elevens would be;^ easy victims if they were to face Chicago, Minnesota; Notre Dame or Michigan.- He further opined that any of the four teams named above would give'the-; West a gridiron distinction if-a game was played with ,: any of the three leading teams of the East. "-; ' Deducting from the statements made by the'Min-/ nesota inventor of football tricks, Chicago,, Notre. Dame and Michigan lead therest of the western teams .,; in present ability, with Minnesota but a short ISagth ^ away.—Chicago jE.Yo/Kjwer. " ' .."'•"*;' VI CREDIT TO NOTRE DAivre.^-:•-->'V::,V\^ Cadets Learii New Tricks froni-Harper^s Ghargesi:5-:f The defeat of the NavyJSaturday-by'the'ArrayJfaa­
-•-->--X..7'..V. 
to 9, was another victory for Avestern football. It was 
one more demonstration of the worth of western 
gridiron methods, besides a clear avovval that one team 
of the West leads at least the Army and Navj- and the 
elevens which these two teams met during the season. 
While the Notre Dame players were gathered in 
their dressing-rooms after their game with West 
Point, in which the Army had been decisively beaten, 
35 to 13, Coach Harper of Notre Dame and Coach 
Lieutenant Dah;^ of \Ve.st Point were closeted and 
discussing the forward pass formations that Notre 
Dame had used to trim the cadets. Harper explained 
Tiow his men were able to complete thirteen out of 
seventeen passes in that game and showed Lieut. Daly 
the simplified method in general use in the central West. 
The fact that the Arm3^ threw off the ancient ideas 
in vogue in the East and learned anew the more worthy 
formations of the West and by so doing beat a team 
that figured on paper at least once again as strong, is 
not the only rebuttal held by the West to prove that 
teams of this section lead the world. There still 
remains the fact that Notre Dame swamped the Army 
with ease when these two teams met. 
Critics profess not to understand hov/ Notre Dame, 
with a smaller enrollment than 75 percent of the schools 
which it wallops athletically, can turn out siich good 
teams. Any one familiar with conditions at Sou*^h 
Bend can explain this. One Saturday this fall no less 
than eight Notre Dame teams had games scheduled. 
A boarding school, every class and every "hall," 
as the various dormitories are called, has its own 
eleven and it is small wonder that out of all this material 
the coaches develop good plaj'^ers. 
Again, Notre Dame is not in the habit of "playing 
up" its ineligibles. Some of the Conference schools 
probably will be greath-^ surprised next fall when 
Charles Bachman, the. former Englewood high school 
star, appears in a Notre Dame uniform. Virtually 
every school in the west and a great many in the east 
were after this man's services, but the arguments of 
his former teammate, Joe Pliska, were too much for 
him to mthstand and he entered the Indiana school. 
Bachman's case merelj'- is cited as an example of the 
manner in which Notre X)ame "covers up" its ineli­
gibles. Probably not one football follower in a hundred 
knew where Bachman was attending school, although 
most of them knew the higher institutions of learning 
have been seeking his athletic talent for two seasons. 
—Sullivan in Chicago Daily News. • 

ALL-AMERICAN SELECTION OF THORPE. O'JBrien Har\-ard Right End Pontius. Michigan " Right Tackle Pehnock Harvard ' Right Guard Eletchem. Yale -, _ . . ,' Centre Browne _ . .Navy Left. Guard Balliti . " Princeton " Left Tackle Avery . . Yale, _ - Left End Dora.is .. , ;Notre.JDame-, Quarterback Craig-. .{Michigan., Left Halfback Guyon , j . Indians •„ , ;, Left Halfback Brickley;. ;. -Harvard/, -: ...... Fullback V; ..Dqrais. of Notre- Dame= is a- manjwho, sizes ;Up to, : the^-qiiarterback situation in,much .better ;shape. than .anv:-.other.^;He;';is-;a:•.star-;of,-the highest^magnitude.­
Excelling in open field play, in running back punts, and 
ill running with the ball from his position, he has 
displayed ability as a general that only few quarters 
have ever equalled. His hurling the pigskin into the 
hands of one of his.ends or backs is a qualitj'' that has 
won his place for him. 
With the above named team and with Dorais to 
general and Guyon and Dorais to do the punting, 
Brickley kicking the drops and Browne the place­
ments, the team would not be wanting in this de­
partment.—TOM THORPE in Albany Times. 
In the western football territory, which includes Ohio State on the east extremity and the University of Nebraska on the-other end, the consensus of opinion is that the section named has developed this fall some of the greatest players it has ever known. vSo many • were the stars that a great variety of selections are being made by various experts. 

An approach to unanimitj'^ is found in the make-up of the backfield. Critics generally award Eichenlaub, the Notre Dame fullback, his position. There is hardly a dissenting voice as to him. Craig of Michigan and Norgen of Chicago were given the halfback places, and though keener rivalry was, felt for the quarterback position, the abilitj'' of Dorais of Notre Dame to run the team and his expertness as a drop-kicker seem to make him the favorite.—Chicago Examiner. 
ALL-WESTERN SELECTION OF WATHEY. Des Jarden Chicago Centre Allmondinger Michigan Guard Keeler Wisconsin Guard Butler Wisconsin Tackle Brown South Dakota Tackle Solon Minnesota End Shaughnessy Minnesota - End Dorais, Notre Dame Quarterback Norgren Chicago • Halfback Craig Michigan Halfback Eichenlaub JSTotre Dame Fullback A comparison could be made between Chicago, Michigan Aggies and Nebraska, as they met a common enemy, andif this comparison should be made many are of the opinion that the laurels must go to Chicago, as the Maroons played the more consistent game and seemed to have a better knowledge of the rules and tricks than the otlier. Giving the Maroons the edge on two of the three remaining teams leaves Notre Dame the only eleven having a right to demand any title higher than Chicago.—rChicago Record-Herald. Reports of results of games in the far east leaves supremacy' v-ery complex in spite of the fact that scribes in the east would distinguish Yale, Harvard, and Princeton as the major body of football, Butwhatever may be said-of them all it must be conceded that Notre Dame w^as represented by one of the most wonderful football teams, as subsequent events have established, . east, and - west. Dorais, Eichenlaub and Rpckne have vbeen the recipients of muQh complimentary,, newspaper notice.. But. while these players .are- unquestionably great men in. their respective positions aiid have "tWrigh be eulogized the fact must not be lost sight of that without assistance frorn their.fellow players" much of tlieir. efforts would be vain.-^South,Bend%Wew5-rtwei.-> :, ' -r -­
mm2 

Still you've got to slip it to the widespread alma­matric enthusiasm of Mr. Charles E. Brickley. In his review of the Army-Navy game he said the Army victory was a "triumph for the Harvard system." Unfortunately we arrived at the Harvard-Princeton and Harvard-Yale games too late to see the crimson machine scoring touchdowns by long forward passes over the goal line. It must have been a thrilling spectacle. Sorry we missed it. 
The facts in the case being that the Army victory was a triumph for the Notre Dame system. A Mr. Dorais showed what a forward pass looked like. And Head Coach Daly was keen enough to absorb the situation immediately.—New York Mail. 
EAST VS WEST. " The East is East, and West is West, 

'And  never  the  twain  shall  meet—"  
When Kipling twanged his w. k.' lyre He overlooked a bet— For often have the sections named On the gory gridiron met.  '  
Three times this year the Wolverine With Eastern foemen fought. Whose vaunted backs and stonewallIn each game went for naught.   line  

And Notre Dame twice left South Bend To conquer seaboard teams— This dope, gleaned from the sporting page. Proves Kipling v/rong, it seems. 

But Rudyard knew whereof he wrote— The East alone will stand «, When Camp selects his all-star team From the squads throughout the land. —Mat Foley in Chicago Inter-Ocean 
Having carefully studied Notre Dame's gridiron and baseball records, the "big Nine" unanimously voted not to admit the Catholics to the Conference. 
—LARDNER in the Chicago Tribune. Notre Dame, too, displaji^ed a machine of speed and power. Coach Harper's eleven ranged victoriously from the Far West to the Army ramparts onthe banks of the Hudson, and tliere administered the most cru.shing defeat West Point has ever known. It had been stated that the open Western style of play would be ineffectual against any standard Eastern .defense. Yet against the Army, which has always held in check any Eastern attack, Notre Dame for­ward passed her way to five touchdowns and ran up 35 points against 13. When it is remembered that Yale has for years considered one touchdown against the Army a good, hard day's work, the magnitude of Notre Dame's achievement can be seen. . . -The open Western attack scored more touchdowns against the West Pointers in one afteirnoon than the 
Yale attack had been able to score in six previous seasons of effort.—E. C. Patterson in Colliers Weekly. WEST'POINT, N. Y., December 5—^At last the secret 
is out. How did the Army beat the Navy? Was it Fielding H. Yost and-his advanced form of open football, or some of.the coaches from other big schools 
in the country? Nix. ; ­Listen, gentle reader, listen. It was Notre Dame and its wonderfully coached formations of attack and 
defense that sent the favorite Navy eleven down be­
fore its musket-carrying opponents from West Point. 
When Messrs. Dorais and Eichenlaub journeyed'to 

the lair of the infant infantry and beat the men of 
Daly, they showed the progress by which the Navy 
could be defeated. Dorais, the star pivot-man of the 
NotreDame crew, disclosed ways of making the forward 
pass that the Army men hadn't realized. The Notre 
Dame team worked formations that they had learned 
from the fertile brain of Coach Jesse Harper that rent 
the Army line and wings. Coach Daly saw, he grabbed 
and conquered.—New York Evening Sun. 
When the Soldiers were beaten by Notre Dame, the Army coaches learned something. They paid close attention to the manner in which the western players executed forward passes, and obtained a good idea of the formations from which the pass was hurled. The team then was pointed for the Navy battle and stress laid upon the execution of forward passes.. —^W'ALTER ECKERSALI, in the Chicago Tribune. 
ALL-WESTERN SELECTION OF GILBERT G. STJLLIVAN'. 
Rockne Notre Dame Left End Butler Wisconsin Left Tackle Harris Chicago Left Guard Des Jarden Chicago Centre Leonardson Michigan "Aggies" Right Guard Pontius Michigan " Right Tackle Solon Minnesota Right End 
•Dorais Notre Dame Quarterback Craig Michigan Left Halfback" Norgren Chicago Right Halfback Eichenlaub Notre Dame Fullback 
Dorais of Notre Dame outshines other western 

quarterbacks as the sun outshines the stars. It is 
doubtful if there is another man in America who could 
be compared with him, for he is easily the best since 
the days of Walter Steffens and Pom Sinnock. 
There is no part of the game in which Dorais did 

not show himself great. Kicking, running, passing and generalship were merely departments of his game and he shone in all of them. It was his stellar work in throwing the forward pass which gave Notre Dame both the West Point and Penn State" games and which, -put the South Bend aggregation on the top of the 
western heap. 
His kicking was far above the average. He can average from forty to fifty yards on his punts and places them as well as any man in the west with the possible exception of Norgren of Chicago. Although he was not called upon for field goals this season he _ is accurate anywhere within the forty-yard line. 
Not only could he carrj'- the ball himself with more than usual skill, but his judgment In selection of plays for his teamma.tes was unexcelled by any quarter in the division. He used his great backfield. with best possible results and Notre Dame was one of the few teams which found ground as easy to gain near opponents' goal as in the centre of the field. 
FiiUback. First place is awarded to Eichenlaub of Notre Dame. The South Bend player is fully the equal of Julian and.Shaughnessy In plunging, and in addition Is a star kicker.ahd as good at the open game^ as he Is in line phmging. Defensively, and offensively." 
Eichenlaub has proved a lower of strength to his team for two years and in that time has been largely re­sponsi1-)le for his school's assuming the r61e_of a championship eleven. 
Knd: Rockne is a trackman when his attention is not occupied by football,' and his speed stood-him in good stead in the gridiron sport. He was fast going down under jjunts and usually made his mates' kicks yield every inch of possible ground. It Avas well-nigh impossible to circle him from an3'^ other formation, and he was one of the few wing men who combined driving power with his ,«^peed Gushufst of Notre Dame was also a good plaj'er—Chicago Daily News. 
Dorais of ISTotre Dame, one of the greatest quarter­backs developed in the history of the game, deserves the call at quarterback, where he shone all season for. the Catholic school. To this fast and clever athlete is due much of the success his team attained against teams of varj'^ing strength. He owes his selection to "no one or two qualities, but to all-around efficienc}' unmatched in the West. 
Dorais is, first of all, a wonderful drop kicker. His goals from the ' field counted heavily in Notre. Dame's total of points, and no team in the country' could have felt safe when his'gifted toe was within striking distance. The same Dorais, moreover, was the leader in advancing the ball, his generalship and speed-gaining ground in gilt-edge style. His cleyer-. 
' ness in. handling the forward pass, was one of his strong points all year. 
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is given precedence over' the other fullbacks because of his all-around abilities. He secured attention . through'out. the country last j-ear and repeated during the season just closed. His wonderful line plunging is his chief asset. He probably hit the line harder than any player in the section and never failed to gain when called upon. 
He combines a remarkable open field game with his line plunging, the mi.xture giving him a unique position. In addition to these talents, he is a kicker of great merit, and is as good on the defense as on the offense. He hit low and seemed to derive pleasure from pulling several would-be tacklers with him for extra yards. He handled forward passes in glittering fashioii.and sized up plays in masterly style. He is given fullback position.—WALTER ECKERSALL'S "All-Western. 
Rockne, Notre Dame R. E. Huntington, Chicago 
Butler, Wisconsin R. T. Pontius, Michigan 
AUmendinger, Michigan R. G. Gallagher, Missouri . 
Des Jardien, Chicago C Feeney Notre Dame . 
Leonardsoh, M. A. C. L. G. Keeler, Wisconsin 
Halligan, Nebraska L. T; Gifford, M.A; C. 
Solon, .Minnesota L. E. -Kenning, M. A. C. 
Dorais,. Notre Dame , Russell, Chicago..
Q. ?-. Norgren, .Chicago ' R. H. Rutherford, Nebr Craig, Michigan z: H.' • Pliska,' Notre Dame Eichenlaub, NotreJDame F. B.' --Julian,^ M. A. C Capt. Rockne,. who led the'Notre Daine eleven" .through such a successful" season, is placed. at right end.. This plaj'-er"possesses,-kll the qiialificatioris=of .an ideal: end.rush.arid the clevei: mariner in which he 
handled forward passes was one of "the i-easons why his ' .teairi negotiated -thirteen successful passes/ , ' 
The Notre Dame captain was quick to size up situations and directed his men accordinglj'^. Oppos­ing elevens seldom made gains around his end and he never failed to hit the interference on the outside, thus turning the runner to the inside, where he was stopped by either the lineman or the secondary de­fense. Rockne Avas a sure tackier iu the open and never failed to drive the catchers of punts to the inside of the field. He was an ideal leader and his words of encouragement to his teammates never failed to bring forth results. 
Feeney of Notre Dame is the nearest approach to the Midway player [Des Jardien], with Glossqp of Purdue not far behind Feeney. 
Dorais of Notre Dame is selected as quarterback, the best developed in the west since the days of Walter 
•Steffen. Dorais is a great general, a sure catcher of punts, a fast and elusive runner, a great punter and a field goal kicker. His open field runs and general-" ship were important factors in the decisive defeat of the Army. His run from kickoff to touchdown in the Christian Brothers game at St. Louis is only one. of his sensational elTprts. Dorais had the happy facultj'' of finding a weak spot in an opposing eleven and kept sending plays there until the spot was either strengthened or a fresh player .sent into the struggle. 
The Notre Dame player ran his team with greater speed than any other quarter in this section, and if eastern critics care to glance over western players for Ail-American material they should focus their ej'es on this performer for careful study. 
Pliska of Notre Dame was another back who was a tower of strength offensively and defensively. 
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is placed at fullback because of his great line plunging in the Army game. The soldiers are considered to be the best defensive eleven in the country'-, and the way the Notre Dame player made gains through the soldier forward wall is reason enough for his selection." 
Aside from his line plunging abilities, Eichenlaub was a good end runner and a valuable man in the interference. He was of great value to the team iu backing up the line and his ability to size up an oppos­ing team's play and direct a defense to meet the attacks was a strong feature of his play.—^From the Chicago Examiner. 
THE AIYSTERY. But this is what most puzzles me. Where football gossip flames;— The East gets the Ail-Americans— But the West wins all the games. 

. Col. Edwards is evidently among those who refused to credit the rumor that football is played west of the Alleghanies, even in a. crude, slipshod way. For exartiple, he picks Pritchard and Merrillat, of the Army, for the wonderful way in which they manoeuvred the forward pass. They were both deserving. But h'ow. about" Mr. Dorais and a'Mr. Rockne, of Noti-e Dame, who showed Pritchard arid Merrillat the way, shooting no less tliat fourteen forward passes athwart this astonished pair for a total'of five, touchdowns? • Theydon't; belong,,that's all. They probably never set'foot on eastern "soil-ttritil they began makirig and catching forward passes.all over it a month ago. 
>^Grantland Rice in "New York. Evening Mail. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Kotre Dame, Indiana VOL. XLVII. DECEMBER 13, 1913. NO. II. 
Board of Editors. 

WILLIAM M. GALVIN,'14  JOSEPH  M. WALSH,  "'14  
WALTER CLEMENTS, '14  GEORGE  SCHUSTER,  '15  
ARTHUR  J. HAYES,  '15  HUG H  V. LACEY ,  '16  
MAR K  DUNCAN,  ' 16  CLOVI S  SMITH ,  '15  
TIMOTHY  GALVIN,  '16.  

—When the final whistle blew in the Texas game on Thanksgiving day, a fitting close was brought to perhaps the most brilliant and spectacular season Three Cheers for in the football history of The Team. Notre Dame. Finishing without a single defeat one of the hardest schedules a Blue and Gold squad ever encountered, travelling east, west, and south, and always bringing the "bacon" home, the Notre Dame football team surely deserves the title of Champions. While number­ing many individual stars in its line-up the team work of the squad was always above par and the machine like -work of- the line, together with the smashing work of the back field and the ever-ready toe of the fleet and brainy Dorais, afforded a combination unsurpassed by any team in the country. Of course dope is some­tiines deceiving, and a difficult proposition confronts the dopester, who tries to figure out the Western Championship on' comparative scores, but even on paper our husky eleven seems to have the lead on the Michigan "Aggies," Nebraska, and Chicago. When the South Dakota team was in its best running order, our eleven defeated them by a larger score than did M. A. C. after the "Coyotes" were severely crippled. This fact would give us prestige over M. A. C. and the teams.defeated by them—^IVlichigan and Wisconsin.. However, our best claim to the championship, lies in our clean-cut and.decisive victories in every game played. From the opener.with Ohio Northern to the final with Texas our team always won 
by a score large enough to leave no doubt as ­
to which was the better team, and neither the 
Army, Penn State, South Dakota, nor Texas 
may be considered anything like secondary 
teams. It seems impossible Lo get a post season , 
game with any «other undefeated eleven, but 
our triumphs have already been sufficients 
We bid farewell to the season of '13 looking 
forward to other triumphs of the Gold and Blue, ' 
and hoping that the future may hold even 
greater victories than the past has brought! 
—^When one says Southern, the word hos­

pitality follows as inevitably as longhom fol­
lows mention of the v^ 
Southern Hospitality, word Texas; or, as 
we might say, were, 

we not too modest, as victory follows Notre-. 
Dame. But we really didn't know what 
hospitality was until our eleven came home to.; 
tell us of the royal treatment received at the-
hands of the Southerners. The team, on their : ­
way to Austin, saw cultivated fields and busy 
towns, but in all their five hundred mile ride ­
through the Lone Star state they did not 
see a single longhom steer, which gave them 
cause to think that the old order had passed 
away; that Southern hospitahty niight have 
gone the road of the coyote and the cow puncher. 
When they arrived at the capital, however,' 
they found that warm welcomes to strangers ; ^ 
are still in vogue there, and that the people 
of the South have earned their reputation for 
hospitality. Dances, theatre parties, auto­
mobile rides, banquets^-all the pleasures per­
mitted to the boys in training, and soine that: 
are not—were tendered the representatives of 
the Gold and Blue. On the field Texas played r ; 
a hard, clean game and fought every minute; ." 
they put up one of the hardest games our men 
''-\:_-z'-<^. 
met,on the schedule this year, and although they lost by a big margin, they were as solicitous, for our boys' needs after the game as they were before it. Not only the-Texas football squad,, \ not only the university students^ but the entire population of the town made an effort to inake -' the boys of Notre Dame feel. a,t home. They succeeded. St. Edward's College, too, where ^ .­the boys stayed from Monday till Thursday, y_.: 
• turned itself inside .out' to entertain their., . -; big cousins from the North. Texas, ^we ap^^' :1; predate your kindness and we adroire your C;\ fighting- spirit. We would like to renew ovi%y:^. 
.acquaintance. * . -. :r.r,y;r 
-"^-i,-5-i? 
Jones is Captain. 
At the annual banquet of the football squad, held at the Oliver Hotel, Tuesda)^ evening, Keith Jones was elected captain of the 1914 eleven. Jones' wonderful performance at tackle, his hard aggressive pla3-ing throughout this and previous seasons, his popularit}'" with faculty, students and squad, make his selection as captain a most admirable one. No pre­ceding banquet has ever witnessed the close of a more memorable season, no "festive board" has ever drawn together a greater galaxy of football stars. It was certainh?^ a glorious tribute to the men of 1913, that Line Coach Edwards, captain of the wonderful 1909 Western Champions, paid to the assembled veterans when he congratulated Rockne upon ha^dng captained the greatest team the Gold and Blue has ever mustered. 
Seventeen monograms were awarded to as many participants in gridiron strife, and the recipients of the honor had the additional satisfaction of hearing the big golden N. D.'s lauded as symbolic of the greatest factories ever scored b}'^ their Alma Mater. 
It was a great evening for performers and coaches ahke. For the outgoing heroes it terminated careers of unbroken triumph; for those who received their first monogram, and for others who are veterans, it marked another notable milestone in the athletic history of Notre Dame. 

The. men whom Coach Harper rewarded with monograms are Eichenlaub, Jones, Dorais, Rockne, Feeney, Pliska, Gushurst, Finegan, . Bergman, Xarkin, Elward, Duggan, Lathrop, Cook, King, O'Keefe, and Fitzgerald. Cap­tained by the greatest tackle in the West, or as Dunbar said, the "greatest that ever wore a uniform," and numbering so many widely acclaimed performers, next year's eleven bids fair to ecUpse even the great achievements of the season, whose triumphant close has been so recently celebrated. 
Basketball Enters. 

Tonight Capt. Cahill will lead his five against" Xewis Institute in. the curtain-raiser of the 1913-14 'basketball season. Lewis Institute has appeared here in the pre-Christmas game for several years, and although they have jiever before proved dangerous, they; may do 
so this evening owing to the fact that our boys 
have been out in uniforms only a week. 
The material for a good team this season is 
promising. From last year's squad we inherit 
Capt. Cahill and Kenney for the fowrard 
positions, Mills for center, and Nowers and 
Finegan at guard. "Bill" Kelleher is a 
monogram winner from 3'-ear before last who 
was unable to play last 3^ear because of injuries 
sustianed in football, but the old guard is in 
excellent shape now and will prove a most 
valuable addition to the squad. Besides these^ 
Fitzgerald, "Dutch" Bergman, Smith and a 
number of others are going well in practice. 
We shall greatly miss our old star, "Peaches" 
Granfield, but a team composed of such material 
as we have will surety uphold the high standard 
set by previous Gold and Blue fives. 
The schedule for this season has not been 
completed, but it will be one of the hardest 
arranged for our bo3'^s since the Eastern and 
Southern expeditions of the famous '08 team. 
Among the games that have already been se­
cured appear the names of some of the strongest 
fives in the country, including Princeton, 
Cornell, Colgate, and the Michigan "Aggies." 
TRACK SEASON OPENS. 

Now that "football is over, the limelight of college sport must divide itself, giving part of its attention to basketball, the other part to track. Nothing in the line of meets will be staged until the holidays are over, but Coach Harper has his men out daily getting the stiff­ness out of their bones. Capt. Hennehan, Plant, Rockne, and Birder of last 3'-ear's relay team are all on hand and in good shape. 
CORBY, 32; FORT WAYNE FRIARS, O. 

In the annual turkey-day combat at Fort Wayne; the. Braves handed a crushing defeat to their old rivals. Though the latter were much stronger than usual this year, having in their line-up Hutzell, an old Notre Dame man, and Baird, the former Wabash star, they were completely outplayed greatly to the dis­appointment of the 2500 spectators. Kinsella and Kane in the halfbacks, starred for the locals with long end runs, while Bachman, Sharp and O'Donnell, in the line, completely smothered their opponents. The kicking of the former was. by far the best he has displayed this year. "Germany" Schultz, the Wisconsin line coach; refereed the game, and afterward, the victors were the guests at a banquet given by the Friars. ­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
•3^3 
Turning 'Em Down. 

From the Indianapolis Star. Time—Last Saturday. Place—Room in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago. Dramatis Personae—Representatives of the various universities in the Western Athletic Conference. 
President—^Having transacted our other business, we will now consider the applications of Marquette, Nebraska, and Notre Dame for admission. 
Illinois Representative—I move we admit Marquette. Voice from the Rear (later identified as from North­western)—Why? ///. Rep.—Why not? They never beat anybody, did they? Northwestern, Ohio State and, Indiana—Then for heaven's sake, let 'em in quick. 
Wisconsin Representative—Well, maybe Marquette didn't win this year—but they,—yon never can tell; they mighti-ge.t Jeneau back there some day. We can't be too careful. I suggest that Marquette be refused admission and that Nebraska be accepted instead. 
Minnesota Representative—I object, and have reason. Wis. Rep.—Only one, a 7 to o reason, I believe. Minn. Rep.—Since you feel that way about it, I 

suggest we request the Michigan ''Aggies" to come in. (Business of glaring at the Badger representative.) 
^Pres.—Gentlemen! Remember-you are gentlemen. Indiana Representative—I understand that Notre Dame also is requesting admission. 
Purdue Representative—^Yes, and I wish to Join my Bloomington brothers in hoping Notre Dame will be admitted. 
Iowa Representative (with an attempt at sarcasm)— So the Hoosier state can win a championship some time, I suppose. 
Tnd, Rep.—Then I presume you object to the Corn Huskers being admitted? , 
Chicago Representative—Reverting back to this Notre Dame matter, I suggest that we do not admit them. 
N. W. Rep.—Oh, so you, too, have observed Notre Dame's record? 
Ohio State Rep.—I know of at least three good reasons aside from Notre Dame's record, for Chicago's refusal to consider that application. 
Chi. Rep.—And, pray, what are they? 
O. S. Rep.—Dorais, Rockne, and Eichenlaub. 

President—Well, gentlemen, it appears to be the sense of the meeting that until these colleges reach our plane— 
Voice from the Rear—In playing strength and purity of requirements? 
President.—^As I was saying, until these colleges get on our plane, we should refuse to admit them and I will instruct the secretary to so inform the press. T will consider a motion to adjourn. Thanks. 
CARLSON IN THE Inter-Ocean. 
sH THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Safety Valve. 
The following all-star team is not meant to expunge, abrogate or annul other selections made by critics, but is simply our honest endeavor after a painstaking search to pick out the notables from the different halls and make one luminous team. 
A. Durbin R. E. . Sorin Robert Pinkerton Cavanaugh R. T. Walsh 
Dyer < . Vincent O'Conner 
N. Ranstead. 

Eugene O'Connell . J. Sholem 
G. Blount Pugnet 
J. McDonnell 
W. Case . 
P. Yerns (Capt.) *0. B., on the 
 R.  G.  Day  Dodger  
 C.  Carroll  
 L. G.  Sorin  
 L. T.  Corby  
 I/. E.  .  Sorin  
 Q. B.  Brownson  
 R. H.  ­  • St.  Edward's  
 L. H.  Walsh  
 F. B.  .  Walsh  
 O. B.*"  St. Joe  
 bench.  

A. Durbin is far superior to any other man for the position of right end. His facility for putting his foot in it, and for bawling up things without the least provocation makes us sure of his football ability. We would never have chosen him for the beginning, but we think he will be good at the end. Besides, he is a good mixer; he told us so himself. And best 

* of all, he is speedj^ as he proved one night between 
•
 Prof. Hines' house and Sorin Hall. Robert Pinkerton Cavanaugh is chosen for right 

•tackle.
 We know of no other man who would look sweeter in a football suit. His long eyebrows, too, have prejudiced us in his favor. 


I^yer on account of his accurate knowledge of the law would be a great help to this.team at right guard. He would guard his team promiscuously from being imposed upon and would be ready to answer all questions the referee might ask. Besides othei: critics have awarded him all-American——^pesti I 
The shape of the uppermost part of Vincent O^ Con­ner when he bends in-ppsition to pass the ball has,; led to our selection of hiin as center. He would 

. confuse all the other teams as they would not know whether he was going or coming. ,: . 
^ Ranstead was chosen as guard "'simph' and solely on account-of his fighting spirit'.- His readiness to , - engage in a fistic battle, and his eagerness for it makes him easily one df.the best men for the team. Eugene O'Connell, the mighty, has- told iis himself , -. that he is far superior to Milroy and Twining in debat-' ing, "and as„ for football, Eichenlaub and Dorais are 
: - :: mere squibs. _ Watch him tackle things this year, 
r , , J: Sholem is indeed head and shoulders above all 
. - ,;\. the. ends'in the school.- His-proficiency at barking up J =;• a^line, and his dogged perseverance has been-a *great; -J- }.: factor;in-determining oiir choice:, :' ..-'ij.t; ;-; .' 
thej"^ have not seen him in action. It is, in fact, very hard to see him in action. Anyone, however, who doubts his ability should go over to St. Edward's hall and ask for him. He is built on the ground and has a tendency to dig even deeper. 
J. McDonnell is our choice as left halfback on account of his superior ways. He impresses one as though he were talking from the top of some high building.. He has a voice like a hatpin and would, we think, be able to pierce any line. 
To W. Case goes the position of fullback. Xt simply 

. goes there of its own accord. We could not Iceep it away. His ability at sharpening lead pencils has been the sole cause of his being chosen. Besides this, how­ever, it may be noted that he is the most ubiquitous man at the University and would we think bob up behind the goal posts at the most unexpected times. 
The team will be generaled by Peter Yerns who will sit on the left side of the players' bench wearing a red and blue stocking, which same he will use in making 
signals to his team. YiEi-DiNG FosT PICKS Player School Yielding Fost Michigan Huerta Alexico Pontius Pilate Judea Sylvia Pankhurst Travelling Venus de Miio Cosmopolite 
September Morn Chicago Art Inst., Yielding Fost Michigan 
 ALT.-AMERICAN. 
. 
 Position 
 Left end  Left tackle  Left guard 
 Centre  Right guard  Right tackle 
 Right end 
Lasca • Down by the Rio Grande Right end 
Gunga Din • Burma Right half back 
Buana Tumba Oyster Bay Left half back 
06m Paul Zud Afrika Fullback. 
We have tried to cover up the fact that this selection 
is composed of dead ones by placing Sylvia Pankhurst 
at ceiitre. But should you discover that the rest ' 

are has-beens, it should not make any difference. This teafn was picked by,me. Therefore it ought to be accepted throughout America, and beyond. What does Eckersall know about football? What do any _of them know about it, except.me? Heretofore the one great objection to all-American, selections has been;^e fact that there has been too.much holding in the liiie. .To prevent fthis, I have selected .Venus de -Milo who lias never been caught holding; Pontius Pilate "and Lasca,' being deid, "need give us.no grave cause for worry, nor September Morn for that matter. Yielding-Fost-promises.not to. hold during a game, but :will .take", his revenge By keeping his .rivals off his all-American team. I am too modest toniention the many reasons why:I-have given Yielding Fost both the end': positions. , I never brag about myself. I've. produced the best -team in the West this year." The Farmers won froiif us;on a fluke.^ Besides, we could'have licked, them-later;in the season^—we im­proved and developed as. the season, progressed. .The 
. > . ; .G: Blount isthe oidy man, so.far as,we know, who:. Aggies couldn'j:^jhaye. improyecl with time because if 
r.f ;; , ^can^sleep in".class:during a heatdd discussion and di-theyj^^cotUdiJvre.wouldn't b^^ of the; West. 
•i;~ -! .: rectly un head, 1T5 haye=tiitteriy>'igno^^^ little) runt of a. school, . ; j; } .-; :i:arid iin6xcitablfe disposition have led to his being, chosen. -{ ;N6tre\:l3ameV''beca^ .beat me four years ago. 5.,,-":;, He can;not punt,;ha.s neverjcaughtla footballmihiis Besides; I li.ateJiJiat;red-h£a^.;Harpr M they pro­;;>;,: fvijiijfe and knows nothing about signals, biit he is other-duced in^igog.; ;,I give'as.iiiiy;re% the fact that they '}y"'tyns&'a:z !l I rv'i,-;t:=«. X •. ., --;,: .'do not conform to stahiiard football playing regulations. ^,-it .'l." ::/Pugnet ,Vi The^fact. that this Is^^^ difference. 
m.'^'^-^^-iy^iy-^.Ci^^^:

•mmmi. 
iiiiiii 




