// B: 
Vol. LIII. Football Number, December 6, 1919 No. 11 
Che i^ouTe Same Scholastic A&CepcisemenCS 
PIXONl 
EYES EXAMINED I MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE 
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices 
SaHsfacHoH Guaranteed 
JIMMIE & GOATS 
DR. J. BURKE & CO., 
, OmMtsraisTs AND MANDFACTOKING OPTIOAMS . "WHERE THE CARS LEAVE" ' Mrttwwboattedtfaem. Brine Uw pieoa. 23O S. Michigan Ot 
^ 4> 
The Ellsworth Store J. J. KF(EUZBERGE(l 
^LL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FUR­MERCHANT TAILOR NISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 916 W. Jeffenon Blvd Arnold Bniidint 
•* * 
N.V. P. TRUNKS National Grocer Company 
by the makcnirf "Indestructo" and sellinx at a mnder" 
WHOLESALE GROCERS
•te price. LngKage section—2nd floor 
403-8 Sonth S t Joseph Street South Bend. Indiiuw GEO. WYMAN & CO. s ­
"LICiTT HOUSE BRANDS" ' "x" 
•* * 
PureOmct. Canfol Ca«ip«Muidinc. ~ . Prompt Serriee 
Frank Mayr & Sons 
JEWELERS 
The Eliel Pharmacy 
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
: 930 W. Wadnocton -Kyi. ! Emit Reyer. Ph. C-Mgr. 
Kable-s Restaurants 
'ia«r(o6 N. ICcficu St. ' rt9 W. Jeff(^9on ByhL' iuiw. WmMagtMt Ave. : 906-So: Midiiiaa St. 
ji^^^-i-.i._-,, 
-ro -: '•'^ '^V' ''-

WMssimmimmmmmmm 
Hy^ure HEALy 

SCNOIAITIC BOARn • 
•-^. 
'X..: 
i cvK-c.f:-'-''•---'' 
•.-.;--i .-..•-•>.-• 
VV • t;c i i,4. , . 
;:>-,i-J.X-i'r%-t"«^>^i^ 
die Howpe Same Schdascic ACttfepCiaemenC^' 
-' 
-. --'­
--" --' "^ C* -"^ ~ ---, '-~ '-_> I" -'-,.' -'" 
' \ 
• \ -• V'"-;'-; ; " , •'^ ' ^ -_ _: • -' , •' "" : -''^-/^'^^ -. ' "*. 
--•• ­
XMAS SUGC^STIQNS
-
-•_ " 
-Notre DameJeweleiy:—Notre Dame 
V
-seal or monogram rings, pins, combina­• 
•' • 
tion sets wjtfi pearls, cuff links, rosaries \­
^•^ •
with cases. La Vallieres, brooch pins, knives, fobs, ever sharp j)ehcils with : ^ _-<: 
. 
^ seal, card cases, Waldemar chains; ihostly 
:\,;:
any article of jewelery mounted vridi 
-
••' ']
the Notre Dame seal or monogram. 
--• 
-Notre Dame leather or felt goods:—Notre 
• .', Dame ^al or monogram, pemiants, blankets. 
---pillow covers, or table covers. In leather: pillow. covers, whole hides, with embossed seal or ; 
• ; 
/• 
--monograms. A --']" 
> ;, ­
-Memory Books:-^Leather covers, with; mono-" 
-
gram or seal; also four other styles of memory 
'i 
:' •,.
and photo books.-:> 
'> .' 
Our stock of sUk slurts, knitted and silk neck-< ­
• ', . 
•':.j::
/ • wear, and other furnishings, is very J extensive. ' . 
1' "" 
^4. 
"_ Gall and look over the "new things," and relieve. 
~h ' 
-y your mind of that worry of "what shall I buy 
•~ r'-% 
; ^ -' 
:'"-• 
' -for **her**; or "him." ' ^ ; < > ^ : 
.:;;^^S« 
.-^^^^^^^ > ^ 4...,: .-^ ::,.-' ' I ioi^i09 Sb^MichigaiiSh ; 108 W/wifcii^^Ave! i ^ ^ ^:\-'?'\ 
• Ji '/-'-' -" '••.^•> "•*•"• ''r-:'/-^ :1^-v—^ Conductors ofv'-~ ^ >r.^ •^;%. "•:>'c'v>'-'^­
-;-' is-^i'^-:;'"'•-' ' • Tl^^i^d^JetSi^SfewteSvrj ^;^ -S ^ ' ^ 
--^ '.'' • 
'^^ --•-'_}-.. ,---'•.-'.>:--,':'.<-.-^:'"i "-. •'.--,,-„; -Oii-die Gm^)us.-I_:^-^-. ^"•-,;\;.^"-A'--<^^'";-^^ >-' 
-.i -. 
;-,-l-'--"..-v '-'•,':-:-':. • :-.Hany/E/PpdmM',Mff.r; _:_r,, C/-V''v:;/.-^-"":--^.>" -;;,•'-:-'• :'• 
•^ — •^vi-"" \^''--^j rj'':l^,/ '•'^•^•.'\' A'-'i^\'---r-^--l ^ „ ^•^I'.'i''----"^/ -'A-/,^/--.;^'^r'c>'" >T"'f^ 
>.••:::, 
-r -*^-" ' „ 
-"v -':'''--j'"~' /'•->'"'.r"l''' ~"!^ -";••-"''"-:." -•', ."• '-".•-.' '''--"/-'7''V.•'-'"••-;-'',--"•"•-"'-,".''-;---•'';""•'--JA --,''<~'~!'y 
'^MzMlM S^S^ j^ ;Sfe^v-S ^-^:SSS!^'?i5iiSs2^ 
•?^-.--.-c5«2,;^>'
-M^'^ii^}^;:^^;^ 
:Siir-'%K^:i-«£?:.-i^-_-?^;
«;s;*its»i 
(Che Notn^e &ame Scholastic A6Cert>i8ementd 
•I* f 
Monogram Soda Pipes GriUe 


Mike's Restaurant 
and Lunch Room 
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props. 105 E. Jefftrson Ave., South Bend Home Phone 6183 
•• ­

Nobile's College Inn 
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM 
STUDENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY 
108 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965 

"WALK-OVERS" 
THE STVDENrS SHOE 
WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 
I IS S. Michigan' St. 
Bell Phone 581 Will caU at UnhersUyHome Phone 3451 by aPtmntmtnt 

Chiropodist 
L. L. ROBERTS 
Office and Residence. 222 S. Taylor Street, South Bend. Ind. 

klingel & Kuehn 
SHOES OF QUALITY 
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S- Bldg. . SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
-f—» 

Baker's Shoes 
"FOR MEN WHO CARE" 
BXCLUSIVB IN STTLB PBKFBCT IN FIT 114 W. Washington, Ave. South Bend,-Indiana 

Dr. Walter A. Hager 
EYE, EAR. NOSE AND THROAT 
Tdephone Bell 52 
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St. 
and Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
Res Bell 1162 
DR. R. F. LUCAS 
DENTIST 
611-612 J. M. S. Bids. 
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
OFrics: PHONES RBSIDBNCS: Bell 886. Home, 5842. Bell, 3561. Home. 3702 
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY 
DENTIST 
No. 511. Comer Suite Wash. Ave. and Msun St. 
J. M. S. Binldinc South Bend. Ind. 
"•-•-•-••-• 
* • 
DR. F. W. VAUGHN 
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST 
60S J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind. 
With the Laigest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in 
Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen,.we are 
prepared to meet your most otacting requirements. 
L. P. HARDY CO. 
417-423 S. St. Joseph St. South Bend, Indiana 
n « f at R f amiable Prices. ^>ecial attention 
Oicydcs ti^liiS^^^^^^^' Anderson Brothers & Bultinck 
t09 West CoUaz Ayenne Sootk Bend. Indiana 
THE UGHT OF THE VISION 
Br CHRISTIAN REIO 362 pi».-r4>rice $1.25 
THE AVE MARIA . . NOTRE DAME. IND. 



oiDo^icbolastiG 
c 

DISCE QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS VIVE-OVASlCRASinORITVRV/S 
VOL. LIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 6, 1919. No. 11. 
Notre Dame Football, 19x9. 
BY I'AUL SCOFIELD, 
>ITH a record and no de­feats Coach, Rockne's foot­

ball men have just closed a season as strenuous as it was successful, and the Notre Dame eleven should rightly be called "The Champions of the West." They met and defeated some of the strongest teams of the West, and their victory over the Army placed them at least on an equal with the -much adver­tised teams of the East. The fame they achieved for themselves and for the school will be lasting, and associated with this _ fame is the feeling of all Notre Dame men, each one of whom is proud of the team and the school they represented. 
Cartier Field was the scene of the first game of 1919, in which Kalama­zoo College ftmaished somewhat unexpected opposition. The Notre Dame line was not yet fully developed, and time 
of 
 20. 
 nine victories 

The first points of the season were annexed by Captain Bahan who, after Malone and Gipp had circled the ends for several sensational gains, carried the ball over the line, and then kicked 
goal. Seven more 
NOTRE DAME RECORD. 1919 
K. K. ROCKNE. Coach 
CHARLES DORAIS. Ant. Cowh LEONARD BAHAN. Capuin 
Kalamazoo. at Notre Dame Mt. Uni<»i at Notre Dame Nebraska at Lincoln Western Noraial 

- at Nobce Dame Indiana at Indianapolis^ ­Army ^ at West Pdnt Michigan Aggks at Notre Dame Purdue at Lafayette 
Momingside ^ at Soux City 
Total Score 
N. D. Opp. 0 14 7 60 9 14 0 53 3 16 9 12 0 13 13 33 
6 14 
 229 47 
 points were added when "Dutch" Bergman stroll­ed fifty y£urds through the entire " Kazoo" team, and Bahan kicked goal. The final score of 14 to o was not a true indication of the respective merits of the teams, for the local eleven achieved many a spectacular gain only to lose the ball through some fluke or~ penalty. 
The eleven men from Ohio, representing Mount Union College, who were the next invaders of Car­tier Field, returned to the Buckeye State with their championship hopes sadly blighted, having been forced to accept the short end ~ of a 6o-to-7 score-The first quarter appeared to indicate a dose contest, as the period ended with the score a tie, 7 to 7, in consequence of the bril­liant runs of the N. D. backfield and a neatly executed forward pass by ChoUey and Brown, of Mt. Union. The remain­ing quarters in'^no way resemcled the first. An 

and again it allowed the Wolverines to Ireak unsophisticated spectator might easily have through and stop the backfield men before they thought that Rockne had placed his track team could get under way. As the game progressed, on the field, as the Gold and Blue sprinted down however, the line braced and the speedy backs the field for eight more touchdowns. The final tore through their opponents for two touchdowns, account credited them with nine touchdowns and 
I62 '^fie Nocre dame Scholascie 
six goals. It is not easy to select for particular mention any individual in that game from among the constellation of N. D. stars that shone on that occasion. The whole aggrega­tion of twenty-four men who represented 
N. D. played in stellar form. 

The first game on the road was played at Lincoln, Nebraska, where the Gold and Blue met the University of Nebraska and treated them to the tune of 14 to 9. This was the biggest game of the year for the "Comhuskers" and a multitude of enthusiasts were on hand in anticipation of a big Nebraska victory. Their cheer that accompanied the kick-oxlf was still ringing when "Little Dutch" stood smiling behind his goal posts and Notre Dame was six points to the good. Gipp had received the kick-off and, according to a bit of deliberate strateg}% started down one side of the field only to pass the ball to Bergman,. who, feeling the responsibility of his title of "Flying Dutchman," went down the other side of the field for the first touchdown. Bahan kicked goal and then the real battle began. Outweighed seventeen pounds to the man, our team grittily endeavored to stop the drive of the Nebraska backfield, but the "Comhuskers" battered their way through for a touchdown. They failed to kick the goal. The opening of the second half saw Nebraska determined to overcome the one-point lead of the "Hoosiers" and Notre Dame equally deter­mined to maintain it. For a while the outlook for Rockne's men was dark. Their opponents forced them back to the 27-yard line, but here Notre Dame held and took the ball on downs. Bahan then opened the box of tricks, which had been brought on purpose, and then began the return march, which ended when the captain of the Gold and Blue carried the pigskin over for the second touchdown.. Nebraska realizing the impregnability of the Irish line, opened an aerial attack, and Dobson soon succeeded in booting from the 40-yard line a beautiful drop­kick between the bars. This marked the end of the scoring. The remainder of the game was played in Nebraska's territory. 
The. team of the Western State Normal at Kalamazoo, Michigan, after victories over 
M. A. C. and Wabash, trotted out on Cartier Field fully prepared to humble the Irish. In the end they limped from the same field after 3delding 53 tallies to Notre Dame and saving none for themselves. With the game two minutes old, Gipp and Malone had carried the ball close to the goal, and on the next play "George" registered six points. From then the pupils of Rockne and Dorais gained almost at will; the backs enjoyed themselves by romping up and down the field; the linemen stopped every attack and opened great holes for the men carrying the ball. Barry and Bergman toth got away for beautiful runs through the whole Normal team for touchdowns. Brandy, Mohardt, and Thelan also plowed through the opposition for tallies. 
Six hundred "rooters," on a special train chartered for the occasion, accompanied the team to Indianapolis to see Notre Dame triumph over Indiana in an animated mud-pie battle. The final score of 16 to 3 did not show the comparative merit of the Northern team, as they acquired several touchdowns that were recalled and Indiana was playing against a team of substitutes in the latter part of the- game, Rockne saving his "best bets" for the Army game to be played the following Saturday. Never, perhaps, was a football game played under conditions more unfavorable. The field was a mass of mud and rain and rain was falling throughout the contest. The light backfield of the Gold and Blue soon found that such mud was not conducive to good sprinting; never­theless, they got away for several long runs. The first touchdown occurred in the second quarter when, after "Hunk" Andersjon had blocked an Indiana punt on the five-yard line, Gipp carried, the ball over—only to lose the slippery pig-skin. Slackford quickly recovered it, however, and claimed the first points of the game. With only a few minutes of the first half to complete, Gipp drove the ball between the posts from placement on the twenty-five yard line, making the count 9 to o. In the third quarter Indiana found the Gold-and-Blue line pimcture proof and lost the ball on downs on the forty-yard line. Thence the"" Rockmen" on four straight first downs advanced to the goal line, where Gipp went over, making the total sixteen points. Rockne then injected a swarm of substitutes, who held the Indiana eleven until penalties placed the ball within striking distance of the goal. But even here the Indiana squad could gain only three yards in three downs, and Risley from the twenty-yard mark attempted a 
place-kick which barely cleared the bar and made Indiana the proud possessor of three points, their only score in the game. The much-touted attack of Indiana failed to materiajize and they 
'^e Nocre dame Sdiokisck? 
succeeded in making only one first down from scrimmage as compared to fifteen by the Gold and Blue—evidence of the stonewall defence and brilliant offence of the Northerners. 
The following week Notre Dame, minus Berg­man, who was injured in the Indiana game, went East to meet her ancient rivals, the Cadets of West Point. The prospect was not encouraging, but not once did the team falter, not even when the Army with a score of 9 to o stood against them. They still had the intention to win, and they did win, as all the country knows. They won 12 to 9 in the greatest game that has been played on the "Plains" in years—demonstrating 
••• •j •B^H H ^^^^H ^H ^^^H^H 
• 

after pass was hurled by Gipp into the waiting arms of Bahan, Kirk, and E. Anderson—^five of them in all, by which the "second lieuts" were completely bewildered; and then with the ball on the one-yard'mark, Gipp drove through for a touchdown, ending the half 9 to 6. The second half opened with the Gold and Blue smashing through the soldiers' line to the ten-yard mark, where the ball was lost on downs and the Army kicked out of danger. Another march goalwards was promptly started by the Westerners, and this time there was no stopping them. Dazzling forward passes to Kirk, E. Anderson, and Barry brought the ball again to 
W' r.^BTW g 
•*%!.. •.• f^ ^ •*» -^ ^ 
S' 
•^ ij 

• ^#^^ 
>" 
^^-§

»» 4 
^-^ 
'?•?• 
ait \>^<H * >€'- *t --. 
ilH 

^^p HH^I 
• IH • 


BH |H 
PVI 
1 ^^1 [t^^ 
S 
«§•; 0 '«" ^ ^ 
41 
'r 
T:' i^ 

Reading left lo right.—top row; Dooley; Shaw; Crowley; Kasper; Cudahy; KUey; Coughlin; Trafton; Mehre; Vohs; Wyan; Walsh-
Middle Row: H. Anderson; Slackford; Kirk; Bergman; Mitler; Bahan (Capt.)^Brandy; Hayes; Barry; E. Anderson; Pearson; O'Bara-
BottoniRow: Holton; Sexton; Donovan; Connors; Ambrose; Sanders; PayneT Prokop; Mohardt; Phelan. (Gipp. -Smitb. Degree. 
Malone, and Madigan, five of the most prominent stars of the team, are unfortunately absent from the picture.) 
again that the Gold and Blue never quits, what­ever the odds. In the first quarter the Army displayed an offence that was irresistible. Time after tiriie they pounded the Notre Dame line for substantial gains, till they carried the ball to the one-yard line, but it took them four efforts to measure that single yard. Again the Cadets took the ball, and advanced to the twenty-six yard line—only to find that the "Fighting Irish" were now fully aroused and determined to stop them. The West Pointers then had recourse to a place-kick, whick McQuarrie sent squarely between the posts, thus making the score stand 9 to o against the Westerners. Field-marshal "Jimmie" Brandy, after running back the kick-off, opened up with the style of play that defeated the Cadets in 1913. Plass the one-yard line; Miller's drive resulted in another touchdown, and the "shave-tails" were for the first time on the wrong end of the score. The last quarter was almost a repetition of the third. "Hunk" Anderson recovered Wilhide's fumble, and again the Gold and Blue advanced to the ten-yard line, but slippery footing prevented them from carrying the ball over. The remainder of the game saw the Westerners resting, with frequent exchange of punts in which Degree outclassed his opponent, and the game ended just as Brandy intercepted a forward pass preliminary to another advance. 
Reinforced by two hundred "rooters" and a fifty-piece band, the Michigan "Aggies" invaded Rockne's camp a week after the Army game, knowing that they were the Notre Dame "jinx" 
'^(ie hiocre 6anieddKkigciGr 
and that they had defeated the Indiana eleven last year. Rockne, taking little account of these facts, however, and wishing to save his regulars for the Purdue fray, started the game with a team of substitutes, except Degree, "The first quarter proved that th§-'Aggies' were stronger than estimated; they not only stopped the Notre Dame attack but threatened to score. Most of the regulars were sent into the game at the beginning of the second quarter and the tide^ began to turn. Using the same aerial attack that had been so effective against the Army, the Gold and Blue carried the ball to the five-yard line, but they lost it on downs. A second time the Varsity swept forward almost to the goal line, but an imcomplete pass over the line lost them the ball. The "Aggies" punted, and then a third N. D. offensive was under way. Bahan and Slackford repeatedly^ broke through the Michigan lin^, and after a long pass, Gipp to Kirk, had placed .the ball within strildng distance of the goal, Slackford plunged through for the first touchdown of the game. The third quarter found the teams in a punting duel with Degree having the advantage. The final quarter ^as featured by brilliant pass work on the part of Gipp,^Kirk, and Coughlin. "B^igle" reached some eight or ten feet in the air^ a^d pulled down a pass behind the goal. Bahan^Idcked goal, bringing the final total to 13 points'. The record,crowd which attended the gaine got an idea of how the Army was defeated by the wizardly passing game of Gipp and Kirk. 
The eighth consecutive victory of the season was the, result of Notre Dame's Jaunt to La­fayette where Purdue was humbled 33 to 13. The^GoId and Blue eleven was slightly over-" confident at the beginnii^ of the game and the "Boilermakers" pushed Wer a touchdown in the first- quarter. But Rodcne's men soon realized the strength of their oppon^its and Bergman and Kirk both registered in the second. period, the. former by means of an end-run and the latter-by. b^ g on the. receiving end of a cannonrball pass, from Gipp. .:T1ie third period' brought fOTth more aerial work, and""Bemie" Kiric boosted.the total .to nineteen. .With, fifteen minutes to play, Purduefought to over-­cp;^e\the lead of .thdr <q»p^aents and managed to score aa,;jaore.ppint5..: But tJie teun from, ntn^dieni Indiana was not sati^tedmth a 19-^ sf^att;, .soTTrafton stag^- a^qiri^ fpF,f.VtQuck-. down, and H..^ Anderstm .•i»2e^ 
TanojU^ ^maricer,, -' George's." , da^'^b^ig the ­
^^•s^j^^^^^z^smmmmMM 
result of a Purdue fumble, while "Hunk" was on his toes in intercepting a forward pass^ The final result of course make the Gold and Blue the~ "champs of Indiana" and the only undefeated big eleven in the West. The aerial work was phenomenal/twelve passes being good for a htmdred and sixty-two yards, and the line men notonlydid their allotted work exceptionally well but also had a share in the scoring and in receiving passes. 
With snow falling throughout the contest and the thermometer at ten above zero, Notre Dame upheld^the hope of her supporters for a clean slate for the season by defeating Morning-side College, 14 to 7, at Sioux City, Iowa. A fumbled kidc-off at the opening of the game gave Momingside their lone marker. The ' * Rockmen'' only fought the harda* and'' Jimmie Brandy soon wiggled through for a tally, tieing the score. George Gipp then decided to do some stepping, by which seven niore points were added and the scoring ended. The famous aerial work was not uncovered as the weather condition" made it impossible. Thus with a record of nine victories and no defeats Notre. Dame ended her regular season with a strong claim to the_ championship of the West. 
The Battle CalL 
BY V;- F. FAGAN, 20. 
TH E cleats and tape, and pads were set. 
And helmets lashed to fighting jaws: ­They sat and crouched, Pete with the ball. , In silent sobcxnessthey met The coaches' burning glare. The pause Was tense, then flared the battle call. 
"Well boys'we're here! They've always feared. Our teams. But now they, smile Contemptuous of your fighting name, 
^ n other years they'never jeered, ' It meant Jiot hell to goad and rile Those old-time men of Notre. Dame. .... 
'^Remember Philbin and 'Big':Mac? 
• They're gone! . Buti boys, thdr spirit's here. 
Today.Kirk,.whenyottrtac]de, crs^h -Your man! And Hartley, fling them back! . ~ .'That ftdlbsick 'quifs,'dbn]t^ in aiidlsmear L. 
£(u:h~^y. Charge low, u ^ smash! 
j" They, say" ycm're. ydlow,^.guts -are gone, ,- .• r s. FOT all I jbBOW.^ey niay be rightl v^ / X * Hit them inth'aU yra*W got!. A^d, Joe,'^ I<et Boigniiuft rip'«M.^^ -> -: ; 
^StohdVlM^!:;< y<m,^eyils;w^d to fight! '. ~: .:; It^s tinai«,noW tear t^ ^ IL^sgot" 

-•r^^xi^i^"^^ 
-^•^:.m 
'Sfie Nocre dame^diokwdcr 
165 
Varsity Veise. 
How THEY DID IT. 

September brought the gang again to Notre Dame, 
•And "Rock," he says to Dorais, "Let's start this foot­
ball game." ^ Out came, the uniforms, with marks of ancient gore. He placed them on some sturdy men, a couple score. Then came a little practice of brain and'body too. And-'"Rock": said, "Guess you're ready, now show 
,.; what you can do." Kazoo,, the Normals,^first upon the field were brought. We beat them by fourteen to Kazoo's tiny naught. Then came Mount Union here, a strong Buckeye 
eleven, • And we had a pleasant track meet—sixty-one to seven. 
' Next it was Nebraska, a terrifyiiig sign. But we gave them a walloping fourteen to nine. Then Western Normal thought that they had many a 
h€XO But we got"^ty-three, they carried home a zero. Old Indiana followed and finished with a three. And our "Rockmen" grabbed a sixteen, and made it 
victory. Then looking for some real fight, they drubbied the Army boys. Kicked the Old Mule twelve to nine, I'll say we made 
some noise. ­Next they tried the Farmers, the Aggies Wolverine, Gave them the big zero, and themselves secured 
fourteen. • . Purdue also had ahunch that they could play the game. Just thirty-three to thirteen—they all look the same. And just to finish strong we took on Mornihgside, And-by fourteen to six we took li e Hawkeyes' hide. And now that we've the championship of all the football 
world, ^ , Let's have the fighting Gold and^Blue to every breeze unfurled. "-" . —^J-T- B. 
To THE MEN OP THE^BAM. 

Yours was a brilliant team, indeed;— The swiftest of our day— Let lasting glory be the meed Of praises for your play. . 
It was^a_ splendid gallantry 
- You showed in every game,^­
~A spirit surging like the sea—~ And proud is Notre Dame.' 
_•- :;May,~ when your'gridiron days are done. Your courage ever be, -- As when Our Lady's champion, "•. ~ , . ' You brought her victory .rr-w. c. H. ' 
-% .-. -BAHAN. "-. _ : -' _ 
Here's to the lad with a corner on grit. 'He's the pluckiest fighter that stands on two feefc; And I'll always be proudthat I've shaken the mitt; Of tfc quarterback captain and gentleman.f-Pete; 
W^}^r.­
"HE' S A MAN."  
You led that Fighting Irish crew, Pete Bahan, ' Their trust was not mispilaced in you, Pete Bahan.  
For three years-now you've carried on;' Your genius many games has won; We honor you for what you've done, Pete Badian.  
Admiring scribes will write about . ­ Pete Bahan. 1— — When deeds are tongues, you'll hear them shout "Pete Bahan!" Since Rock's hip-hipping you begaii You've played as only daring can. By all that's noble, -you're a man, Pete Bahan. —^r. T.  
'  THE FINISH.  
/ .  Our football team has lost no game. In East and West has gained much fame.' Although in many games outweighed. The harder odds, the harder played. '^•^w. K. (3rd. Prep.)  
THE Doviistnas.  
"You aren't very heavy; your pounds are next to nil; And all your tricks will be of no avail; The other teams have mighty.:.men; they'll wreck your* plans, your hopes tiJiey'll kill, ^ And scatter opposition like feathersu in. a gale. Their coaches are a-wily lot and-they'never miss a guess, - Their stars can cover miles and miles' of space; And so we critics and we scribes are able to confess.  
The Gold and Blue can never win the race."  
But when the season started and the team began to show,' _ How Jack and David slew the giants of old. Another song was^ chanted by the journalistic row. And wondrous tal^ of N. D. men were told.  
The celerity of Bergman, the dexterity of Gipp, The feats of Brandy, Bahan, and Malone; . The way a line of scrappy men did tear and rip and smash.  
Throughout the whole United States are known.  
"Your line is lights but powerful; your backs have speed to bum, '^ ­And you can't be.stopped biy anjrthing on earth; Your' coaches are prodigious, they know all there is to learn. -­: ' ^ _ ­.  
'  The plays you've worked have often.proved thdr . worth." •'.' '- , : So it isn|t size and press predicts that make a-winning:  ^  
;  -'. :team,.,. .---">-_•. ^"•' -•., . Conjectores never won great victories, 7 Butcourage,strengtli and skill and speed cam realize a. -.• ..-"dreain, J •,".-/.? i ~ -'~ ­ ,-" ' . . '; _ -.-'.•--; In spite of all .alleged authorities.-—wJ c.-H.  
•mm  
;^-»;r^.x­ -.-•= r  « • TV-S?­ 

i66 Ipfie Nocre dameSdKikwcKr 
The Coaches. 
Just as Captain Rockne and ex-Captain Dorais, the peerless football combination of the 1913 eleven, with their novel and perfect forward passing, nimble field running, and good general­ship, led Notre Dame to victory over tlfe strongest teams in the East, West and S9uth­west, so that same combination has developed this year a team which has impressed itself even upon adverse critics as one of the strongest in collegiate competition. The phenomenal success of the imdefeated eleven of rgig is for the most part to be'attributed to the work of Coach Rockne and Assistant Coach Dorais. 
With Rockne concentrating his efforts upon the development of the line and with Dorais as the silent general of the tackfield, the singular 

<X>ACH ROCKNE achievement of the team was inevitable. The Coaches received throughout the season the fullest confidence and heartiest co-operation of the candidates. They noted carefully the particular ability of each player and made their choice for positions accordingly. No department ' of the game was neglected, no weak spot escaped attention, no play lacked perfection. 3 Rockne has just completed his second year as mentor of the Notre Dame eleven. His long football experience and his three years of work as assistant with Coach Jesse Harper left nothing laddng.in the way of c[ualification. He faced a difficult schedule with a determination to develop a winning team. The nine unbroken victories of the season show how he succeeded. He injected into the men that indefinable N. D. spirit which resulted in every contest in a mad fight for victory- And not only oh the gridiron did Rodqie develop that efficient spirit, but also 
in the student body. He quickly succeeded in 
restoring that traditional, unanimous -enthusi­
asm which was so sadly lacking at the beginning 
of the year. 
"Gus" Dorais, who piloted 
the Notre Dame elevens in 
1910, '11, '12, and '13 gave 
this > ear, as assistant to Rockne, 
just the co-operation needed to 
achieve such amazing success. 
The backfield was gradually 
perfected by him until towards 
the end of the year its eflScient 

• teamwork was the outstanding feature in every victory. The indomitable will, tireless efforts, and brainy, direction of the coaches developed a machine which conquered teams on which every individual, player received^ the attention of two personal coaches. The cherished memories of their work will 
Asst. Coach Dorais 
remain indelibly fixed in the minds and hearts of the members of the squad, and of the sWdent body.—p. R. CONAGHAN. 
Football Facts. 

The game with Morhingside on Thanksgiving Day marked the close of Notre Dame's thirty-first football season. It was also her twenty-eighth consecutive season. The gridiron sport was inaugurated at Notre Dame back in 1887, when the Gold and Blue lost its first game to Michigan by a score of 8-0. 
The "Fighting Irish" have participated in 211 contests, winning 159, losing 36, and tying 16. 
The fact that Notre Dame has amassed a total of 5492 points against 1040 by her opponents forms a fine commentary on the chronic strength of her "pigskin jugglers." 
This year's aggregation is the tenth Notre Dame team-to go through a football, season without a defeat. . 
In 1905 ^ e administered our most crushing 

defeat, on record by tirouncing the American 
Medical Collie,by a.total of 140 points, and 
holding them scoreless. \ ' 
In 1904 Wuconsin gave us the worst drubbing 

in our gridtrphhistcvy, whien we bowed before 
her to the tune of 58^: > 
-•-•-.--/ 
-". .-->>=».'-_••• \'-r"-V ••-:" 

^,._;•^J^>^??.s;v 
^ ^ Nocre dcmieSchokisdc 
The Men of the Squad. 
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGART, 21 . 
BAHAN. 

When the Notre Dame stands proclaimed to an opposing team in a spirited yell, "He's a man— Who's a man? ^ He's a Notre Dame man," 
.they expressed the conviction that coines surely from intimate acquaintance with I^eonard . Bahan, the captain of our 1919 team. Bahan is a brilliantly versatile athlete, being a mono­

gram man in basketball and baseball as well as in foot'ball. While in preparatory school he was twice selected as all-Kentuck/ quarterback, winning at the same time similar honors as all-state forward in basketball. Notwithstanding this record, "Pete" came to Notre Dame not as an athlete but as a student. During his first year no one knew that the mechanical engineer,­whose marks were in the magna-cum-laude class, would in a short time be using' on the Notre Dame gridiron that mental poise for which he has since become so well-known in footballdom. Rockne has not had on his squad a more consist­ent player than this Bahan, arid this regularity along with his head-work made him an ideal quarterback. To have been captain of the 1919 team is an honor, and it could not have fallen on a more worthy man than Leonard Bahan. 
MADIGAN. 

Notre Dame's "fighting^Irish".center, "Slip" Madigan, has completed an envious football career. For three years this versatile athlete has been, at guard or center, the mainstay on the Notre Dame line. A swift thinker in the tense and crucial moments of the game, and a real warrior, he has teen a constant worry to every line Notre Dame opposed. Particularly notable was his brilliance against Nebraska and the Anriy. On these occasions "Slip" was con­siderably outweighed, but even Day of Nebraska and Greene of the Ariny will testify that he was noC outfought. We regret ^a t the scrappy pivot man can play no more. To Madigan, the student and the gridiron star, Notre Dame extends a sincere -tribute of gratitude.^ His achievement is recorded with those of the greatest in the annals of Notre Dame Football. 
BERGMAN. "Little Dutch" Bergman, the second of his 
- clan—^but not the last, we hope—to "carry on" for Notre Dame, will end his brilliant gridiron career with the battle against the Oregon "Aggies", in Portland, Oregon, on Christmas Day. The absence of the name Bergman^ from the Notre Dame line-up will seem oddi^- For years the supporters of the Gold and Blue have gloried in the name, while opposing teams and coaching staffs have wasted hours of worry 
.over it. " Bergie's " phantom open-field ninning, his sprint starts, down-wing rushes, and mystify­ing oif-tackle gains have placed him among the "greatest ever." Football experts and critics of every section have lauded his work, and the "Flying Dutchman" has missed unanimous All-American selection only because of injuries that have kept him out of critical games. No foot­ball man has ever held more securely the respect and adnura­tion of the students and faculty of Notre Dame. Bergman's grit, his efforts when crippled, his fight when he knew -he was marked "get him," brands the "Little Dutch" the inost memorable of the "Fighting Irish." When he stieps off the Portland field on Christmas day he will have closed his career as one of the greatest of the "big little men" football has produced. With his equally famous brother, "Big Dutch," he will be perpetuated in the annals of Notre Dame football. 
MILLER. 

When Walter Miller puts on his burst of speed and tears down the gridiron he makes the Hill Street Car at its beSt look as if it were standing still. For three years Walter has been a mainstay of the eleven and has, never failed to go forward when called upon.^ Last season he was Slackford's partner at the full­back position and at the end of the long schedule honors are equal between the two. Walter is the sum total of what is desirable in a fast^back. Add to his speed, smashing ability, and head-work the fact that he is a punter of note, and you haye the reasons for his reputation in American football. His fame will not die with his grad­uationin June, butfor many a day the students 
i68 • '©le Nocre SoineSchokwcic 
of his time will recall with delight the sensational dashes and high-soaring punts by which he distinguished himself at every opportunity. 
SLACKFORD. At the outbreak of the war "Fritz" Slackford left the halls of Notre Dame and became one of the most distinguished soldier-students. On his return this fall, his "pep" and endurance were still at fever pitch, and his football perform­ances during the season have won for him wide recognition founded on genuine merit. Men of former years will recall how he shattered an "opponent's line with his Hercdlean frame, and this year was, another illustration. When Rockne called upon him to "finish the job," Fritz always went "over the top" on his first play and hit the enemy with the momentum of a military tank. We can safely assure the big blond back that the memory of his feats on the gridiron will long be cherished by followers of the Gold and Blue. 
MALONE. 
Grover Malone, one of the most versatile Gold and Blue backs, also finishes this year. His performance in the early season was stamped _ with the same sensational brand that character­ized the phenomenal work of the "Little Wonder"^in former seasons. ^He was prevented from taking part in many of the major games of the schedule by a mean ankle injury that kept him limping badly, but as a star "Grove" has never waned in the least. Built low and massive and possessed of no mean ability in sprinting, he skirted ends at will and richocheted through "stonewall" lines, leaving a trail of tadders bdiind. He has finished his term, but his multitude of admirers will long chant-his praises. ­
KSKK. 

Soon after the Army game a writer on a New York daily, speaking of exceptionally good forward-pass receivers, said, "It is doubtful if any surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame." This was no news item to us who know him. Those who have been followingthe rapid develop­ment of this youngster realized long ago that in Kirk Notre Dame had a man who was following in Rockne's footsteps. Bemie's phenomenal ability in catching Gipp's passes proved a source of discouragement to rival coaches during the s^son. Try as they would, they could not organize a defense which could hold this end of ours. Already the Eastern sport-writers are' 
urging Kirk for a berth on Camp's All-American, and those who have seen him in action can see no reason why he should not have the honor. He has two more years to play. 
GiPP. 
Notre Dame" is to enjoy for another season 
the service of George Gipp, one of the best half­
backs ever developed in the 
West, if not in the whole 
country, the opinion of one 
Walter Camp to the contrary 
notwithstanding. The truly 
classic work of big George has 
been the most prominent factor 
in the success of the past 
phenomenal season. In 1916 
Gipp leaped into national notice, 

when, as Captain of the Notre Dame Freshmen in the game against Kalamazoo Normal he booted the longest drop-kick of the year. He struck a spectacular stride the follow­ing year under the tutelage of Harper, but suffered a broken leg in the game with Morning-side. This year George has provoked numerous headUne encomiums by virtue of his magnificent end-dashes and by his consistently sensational hurling of passes. Conmienting on the ability of this star back, the Purdue Exponent pays this tribute: "Gipp will be remembered as the powerful half who last year, made consistent gains against Purdue Ziehen'the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one of the best forward passers in the game and must be watched if Purdue, expects to break up the aerial attack of the visitors." Camp and Eckersall will have to offer some excuses if in their selections they pass by George Gipp. 
DEGREE. 

Another veteran who bids farewell to Notre Dame football after three years of brilliant service is the "old reUable" at tackle, "Cy" Degree. He made good fromjthe scratch, win­ning his first monogram in 1916 and duplicating his stellar work.in 1917, despite the fact that he was retarded by a troublesome knee. Time after time the giant tackle,was forced to the sidelines by a revival of the old injury, but he was £dways ready for the next game with all his. characteristic grit._ Tliis year he overcame the effects of his former injury and played a fine consistoit game throughout the season. "Cy" was-4n on every play with the clinch of his deadly tackle. The Nebraska, West Point, 
'^fie Nocre domeS^^iokwcie 
' and Indiana backs slighted Degree's wing, knowing that evforts to get through him were as a rule futile. In the passing of Degree, Notre Dame loses one of her greatest defensive stars, and it will likely be several seasons before Rockne and Dorais will be able to develop the equal of this super-giant. 
BARRY. 

"Nam" Barry, the fighting little bantam who was Bahan's understudy at half-back, is by no means a new figure in Notre Dame football. Ke began in St. Edward's Hall a good decade ago, for years he starred in the Interhall games, and last season he broke into the Varsity. Barry is a light man, but his ability to run through an open field, dodging or shaking off tacklers and wiggling through any number of opponents, will make him notable in American football within the next two years. 'Nam" carries his smile as surely as he -carries the ball, and his clieery manner after being clipped stamps him ds unique among football stars. "Rock" can tell you of his determination to smash against the Cadets at West Point, and those who saw the game will never forget his all-American catch when Notre Dame was "finishing up the job." There is not a man on the team who is more deserving of the big N. D., and Barry is eligible for two more monograms before Rockne gives him his''final disch^-ge. 
PEARSON. 

" Dud" Pearson is another of Rock's big ones, who will take the train in June with an N. D. sheepskin tucked under his famous passing arm. Pearson proved his prowess two years ago by breaking into the intercollegiate limeUght and remaining there, despite the fact that he fought under the serious handicap of a badly injured shoulder. His showing in the terrific W. and J, battle of 1917 won the admiration not only of Notre Dame men but also of the disconcerted cohorts of Metzger. Much of the success of the Gold and Blue in the battle with M. A. C. this season was due to the fine work of Pearson, in fact every time "Dud" was called on to fill his position his work was extraordinary. Rockne suffers another real loss in Pearson. 
:. BRANDY. 

Two years ago it was published throughout the football world that a featherweight half­back of Notre Dame had stopped the mighty Oliphant and that this youth playing his first season in college iootball had raced through the 
-Cadets for a Avinning touchdown. The new star was Joe Brandy. In September Coach Rockne saw the wisdom of pla3ring "Li'l Joe" at the quarterback position, and throughout the fall we have been hearing echoes of two years ago. Joe went to West Point again, and, as the general of the Fighting Irish, directed the whirl­wind aerial attack which another time sent the soldiers down to defeat. Brandy's specialty ~ seems to be beating West Point. Indiana, Purdue, the Michigan Aggies, have all been outwitted by this_small man, whose invincible spirit and inside knowledge of the game rank him among the great players of Notre Dame. Joe will lead the team for another season. 
MOHARDT. John Mohardt, the Interhall man of two years ­ago, broke into the ranks of football stars last year and was one of Rockne's best bets in the= backfield. This season, however, Mohardt did not play in every game in consequence of the superabundance of backfield talent. We saw y Johnny tear away for long^runs in the Mount Union and Michigan Aggie games, but because of the sloppy field at Indianapolis he was unable to show the form which has made him a man to be reckoned with. With his abilily in tackling, his speed, and his experience, he will doubtless during the next two seasons make the nucleus for a great set of backs. 
SMITH. 

Donning a football uniform for the first time in his life, "Morrie" Smith stepped out on Cartier Field three years agoandwas immediately recognized by Coach Harper as a man of great possibilities. From that moment until the final whistle sounded this season in the Morning-side fray. Smith has shown exceptional quality. We lack adjectives to describe the smashing, "go-get'-em" action of the hefty guard from Ottawa. Of this player an Indianapolis scribe writes: "Smith is not a name to create a furore in any community, but this particular member of the Smith famUy has been making football players sit up and take notice, and he will keep his opponent hustling when Notre Dame and Indiana dash at Washington Park next Saturday. Smith weighs only one htmdred and sixty-nine pounds, but he has been holding down a forward wall position at guard with great ^a t for Coach Rockne's Irish deven.'' Smith has been awarded the position of right guard on the m3rthical all-
State team and has.been picked by the Rochester ' 
F 
'Sfie Hocre domeSdiokwtie 
170 
Herald for the same position in an all-American selection. " Morrie " is a champion whose record at Notre Dame is, to say the least, enviable. He will be graduated this year. 
TRAFTON. 
"Big George" Trafton showed his quality at Oak Park before he picked out'Notre Dame for an address. During the season past his success at pivot position has increased with each contest imtii in the Purdue game the big center startled the crowd by a zig-zagging march down the field with an intercepted pass. In this Chicago "j'^outh" Notre Dame has another Rydzewski. His work on defense has been stubborn, and as for his offensive, you may ask the backs on the Indiana and Piu-due elevens: Although badly battered up in several contests, George wore a smile as broad as that of Madigan, his partner, and his high spirits, even in the face of odds, contributed towards the consistent morale of the Western Champions. Notre Dame will watch opposing centers wonder at Trafton for two more years. 
H. ANDERSON. 
Rockne must have teen bom with the proverbial silver spoon, for he is to have'' Hunk;" Anderson • at left guard for, two more years. Anderson broke into the headlines by virtue of his sensational delivery of "football goods" at Nebraska, West Point, and Purdue. At the last place he insisted on duplicating Trafton's aerial scoop by getting in the way of a forward hurl and gliding through the entire Purdue defense for a touchdown. An aggressive battler and a brainy linesman, "Hunk" earned well his popularity among the "fans" by uniformly, giving his best. Although Anderson played on the S. A. T. C. team of last year, he still has two years of eligibility. 
E. ANDERSON. 

Very much in evidence - during every game of the season was Eddie Anderson, prominent member of the famous "Flying Circus." With his mate. Kirk, he was on the receiving end of many a successful pass. His uncanny ability in catching the swift ones from Gipp .gave him/ distinction as " one of the best ends in the West." Ed did iiot, however, confine his gridiron accom­plishments to aerial work; an exceptionally fast man, he was down under every punt and got his man. A reporter at the Anny game remarked, "Every time I see Anderson start I get ready to write 'Blank was downed in his tracks.'" laddie played last year on the S. A. 
T. C. eleven, but he still has two more years of school, and perhaps that is why Rockne and Dorais chuckle when they think of next year. 
KiLEY. 

When Kiley found that the "Aerial Twins," Kirk and E. Anderson, were competing with him for the position of end, he did not lose hope of becoming a regular but only fought the harder, and as a result he emerges from the season a monogram man. "Rog" did his share of retrieving forward passes and also became known and feared as one of the hardest and surest tacklers on the team. Few gains were made around his flank and fewer still are the men who managed to shake him oS once he had thepi. With Kiley back for next year, and the year after, the important position of end ceases to be a problem for the Coaches.^ 
DOOLEY. 

Pre-eminent on Rockne's squad of guardsmen and a fighting man in every sense of the word is big "Jim" Dooley. Of magnificent physique and fierce driving power, the big .boy from the V East has been a bulwark to the Gold and Blue. He won his monogram by dint of grinding work. Numerous times Rockne sent him into the line to relieve Smith at guard and in every instance the Massachusetts giant showed himself equal to the task. When a play through the right wing was to be stopped Dooley was there. A defensive star of first magnitude, 'Dooley should in his two remaining years fight his wav to the piitmacle of football fame. 
COUGHUN. 

Those watching the Notre Dame machine in action have marvelled at the success of our o:9f­tackle plays, which, after the forward pass, have been throughout the season our most consistent ground-gainers. This success/is greatly due to Frank Coughlin, the herculeian left tackle, who achieved his first fame three seasons ago. From the moment that he entered acn intercollegiate contest he has prbyed a most valuable line-man. Weighing wdl over two hundred pounds and capable of limitless punishment, Frank has always been a tnil^rark in the line of defense and a terror to th^ opponent. There is in him that enviable combination of' brain and Brawn, and thpiigh he rever wastes any of his energy, he goes th^ou^h a gdtke onfall twelve cylinders; 
s^:}i3mmmm^fm^mi^^^: 

'Slie Nocre dameSdMkwcic •v-,,r-£?£ 
171 

There is a prophecy in the praise accorded him by sport-writers, and this season should accord him a place" on the all-Western. Notre Dame is to enjoy the services of "Lil'l Willie" for one more season. 
SHAW. " v Shaw played well the role of "minute man" throughout the season. This husky bearcat was called on frequently to jump into tackle position, where he acquitted himself so strikingly that even the taciturn Rockne was wont to point him. out with a "That's-him!" Shaw was impenetrable. Possessed of impressive physique and a "football" disposition, he has the making of a champion. WiUing, anxious, and industrious, the big fellow should during his two remaining years develop into an all-American. At present he is the best prospect for first-string position next year. With this sure "comer" in the local camp, we predict that the Coach's" trouble at tackle will be the least of his worries. 
HAYES. After tackling the Boche for a loss Dave Hayes came back to Notre Dame and not even a hip-wound could keep this sturdy forward from "^the Hall of Fame. Two seasons ago Dave established his worth as an end and this year he has upheld the reputation of his ante-bellum days. Heavy, husky, and "hard," he played his end position with such steadiness and success that he is looked upon by pigskin followers as a veritable Gibraltar. Bom with the invincible Irish fight in his natiure, David conducts himself with such reserve and almost reproachable modesty that his popularity with the Coach and the.squad is as notable as the largeness of his heart. 
Making the Varsity squad never before this last season involved such consistently fierce fighting for places. As a result, a coterie of capable inen who would ordinarily receive monograms has been forced to be content with second honors. Mehre played a fine, determined game at center, showing always that " I'll-give-all-I've-got-Miy­way" spirit which augurs well for his future. Connors,. Sanders, vGooley, and Ambrose did exceptionally at guard. All of them faithful, ready, dogged men, they should give a.good account of themselves in the heavy schedule of next year. Vohs and Cudahy are deadly, fighting, tacklers with abundance of football sense, ready to fill the yawning gap next year. 
" Red", Donavan was out of the game during the entire season because of sickness, but will ' make things interesting next year for all other aspirants for the end places. Kasper, Walsh, Phelan, and Wynn are backfields of most promising consequence; they were edged out of regular positions on the first team because of-the wealth of big-time material. With most of the champion backs completing their inter­collegiate careers, these men will undoubtedly be seen eating up yardage for the Gold and Blue when Rockne and Dorais pitch camp for 1920. 
<•* 
N. D. Freshmen Football, 1919. 
BY E. MORRIS STARRETT, 21. 

~ N. D. Freshmen, 7; Valparaiso University, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 36; Culver Military Academy, 7. 
N. D. Freshmen,. 36; St. Viator's College, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 23; M. A. C. Rreshmen, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 14; Fort Wajrne T. 61 P.. o. 
This year's Freshmen squad was the largest that ever reported on Cartier Field for the "fall drills and scrimmages with the Varsity. The first call resulted in the appearance of over sixty yearlings in uniform, and during the following weeks more than a dozen reported. The turn­outs included a wealth of fine material recruited from the preparatory and high^schools of the mid-West, while several of the squad had seen action with the Notre Dame Varsity squad; in the 
S. A. T. C. organization. There was an abund­ance of line material, which will be badly needed for the Varsity of 1920. The development of. their backfield men has been watched with interest, for this year Notre Dame loses most of the greatest backfield squad the school has had in years. 
The evident strength of the first year men made "^ it advisable to'schedule the hardest slate that any Notre Dame yearling squad has ever attempted. The games scheduled included four games on the road, and one to be played at home on Cartier Field. The game between the Freshman elevens of Michigan Agricultural College and Notre Dame was the first real home game by a. Freshman team of the University. 
Many of the games were won under smous handicaps. It was often the case that during the week days preceding a big game""Rock" would order the Freshmen tobuck the Varsity two" or three sessions, each of a solid hour or more. In these scrimmages the youngsters were knocked 
^. 
•- ---------^ 
^:-/^-£-im^ 
'Sde Hocve dame Sdickwrie 
al out, battered, crippled, and crushed, so that 
o". one or two occasions Coach Miller doubted 
whether he had eleven men in condition for his 
next trip. , ­
The total of nine straight victories annexed 
by, Rockne's Varsity eleven is scarcely more 
creditable than the record hung up by the 
Freshmen eleven representing the Notre Dame 
class of 1923. The Varsity eleven went through 
their schedule of nine games without a defeat, 
but they were heavily scored upon, whereas 
the Freshmen played a schedule of five 
hard games without a defeat and were 
scored upon only once, for one touchdown. And 
whilst they were holding all opponents scoreless 
the yearlings were setting up as a standard for 
future first-year teams a record total of 116 
points. Freshmen teams of other years have 
won most of their games and with large scores, 
but no one of them has a record equal to that of 
the present season. 
The success of the Freshmen was largely due 
to the long hours of drill and scrimmage work, 
put in night after night under the tutelage of 
Coach John Miller and his able assistant, Sher­
wood Dixon- For-years Miller has been one of 
Notre Dame's most versatile athletes. He was 
a monogram man for three years on the^ Varsity 
track and football squads, and was captain of 
the former in the spring of 1917. Under his 
direction the yearling backfield soon became the 
equal of the line, and in subsequent scrimmages 
with the Varsity hardly ever failed to register 
touchdowns that gave Rockne good excuses for 
lecturing the Varsity. It will be a backfield 
combination that the Varsity will need most in 
1920, and if the 1923 men_fumish the needed 
material it will be because of Coach Miller's 
excellent work this fall. Sherwood Dixon of the 
1917 Varsity squad, assistant coadi, gave the 
Freshmen candidates for line honors the inside 
information concerning Rockne's methods, and 
on several occasions mixed it with the" Varsity 
to bolster up his forwards. 
The first test for the Freshmen came just after the first call for candidates had been answered. -The coaches had little time in which to select the first three elevens out of the tum­oi^t of more than seventy men and to prepare ' for the fir^t battle with the Varsity. It; seemed improbable that the first-year men would be able to make any showing at allv against the 

seasoned Vanity crew which had had nearly. 
three weeks of hard work. The Freshmen were equal to the occasion, however; and before a crowd of several hundred students shocked the veterans into a realization of how weak was their defensive and offensive work. Time after time that afternoon^ Miller's men broke through and dropped Rockne's "pets" in their tracks, and when, carrying the ball the Freshmen menaced their opponents' goal four times. The Varsity effected two-touchdowns only after the hardest kind of a battle in which several of the yearling stars were carried from the field. "Ojay" Larson, center of Notre Darde's 1918 S. A. T. C., was elected to lead the Freshmen eleven, and in every game this year has proved better than in his 1918 season. _ 
The bulwark of the 1919 Freshmen eleven has been its line. Most of the games have been played on slow fields where it was up to the forwards to open holes for any possible gains. In this work Captain Larson stands out supreme. Degree and Parker have rarely let an offensive play go through them, and the former has been invaluable for his punting. Garby and Donahue are a pair of tackles that will beneeded by the Varsity of 1920. At the wings Carberry and Siefort can be relied upon to carry on the " aerial attack" for which Notre Dame is so well known. Thomas has shownhimself a clever field general at all times, often outwitting the Varsity when he was allowed the' choice of only a few plays. The work, of. Coughlin, Castner, and L)mch needs little mention. It has been evident in every game to the extent of rolling up the biggest score evermade by N. D. Freshmen. The yearlings* s^onds were in many cases only slightly less experienced or lighter than the first-string men." Voss at center, Reid and Kelly guards. Cotton and Oberst tackles, Doriot, Wilcox and GrifSn at ends, formed a forward wall that could best the Une of not a few varsities. The backfield men, McCarthy, l;og£m, Kane, Lyllis,"and Cqnley, are material to fiill the back­field ranks of the Vanity, which will be badly depleted by graduations tlus year. Notre Dame has every.right to beproud of the record made by the_ 1923 jnehl'^ 
Valpjffaiso Uiuyersity was the first victim of the N. .]b. FreshmenV Valparaiso is a newcomer in Indiana football, and ,tins year's schedule mdicates ambitibns for mid-We^^ honors. Coach Mi|l£rymen wei« hiarMy c^ chance to win, but with itbe s«isoning. ;of two wedks of _ Vanity scriQiin£^;^4w^^ ^aWe to;do.the mex-­
,Piayi^ feld,. Captain 
'^ji:^' 
'^^4^MiM3^^mm^miMf; \~;-_-:.,—'•.-:•= 

'Sfie Nocre dfome Sdiokwcicr 
ns 

Larson's inen resorted to a kicking game in which Degree and ;Kasner featured. Finally the break came when Coughlin recovered a fumbled punt on Valparaiso's twenty-five yard line, where­upon his backfield mates converted the chance into a touchdown and goal. In two other instances the yearlings marched within striking distance of the Valparaiso goal but. failed to register. Every attack of their opponents ^as stopped in mid-field, with the result that the ' final score was 7 to o for-the Freshmen. The Valparaiso papers took the defeat so much to heart as to allege hastily that several of the Notre Dame regulars had played against them and that the Notre Dame team could not properly be judged a Freshmen eleven. Their mistake is easily explained by the fact that there were Degrees and Coughlins on both the Varsity and the Freshmen squad. All the men 
' who played Valparaiso were Freshmen athletes-On the second occasion Culver Military Academy was trimmed in the only game in which the Freshmen permitted the opponent to score. Only members of the yearling squad under one hundred and seventy-five pounds -were eligible for the contest. Coughlin's touch­down from kick-oif featured the game which resulted in a score of 36 to 7. , -Wading and plunging through mud, the Fresh­men added to their list of victories by defeating St. Viator's, .36 to o, on the Friday before the Indiana game. The sloppy field did not stop the. showers of forward passes or the accuracy of the goal lacking. Castner and Coughlin, as 
usual, featured the attack and Captain -Larson smothered every attempt to puncture the line. The Freshmen next met the yearlings of the Michigan Agricultural College in' the first Freshmen game played on Cartier-field. The Michiganders were no match for.the represen­tatives of the Gold and Blue, and if Miller's men had not been so interested in the returns of the Notre Dame-West Point game the final score of 23 to o would have been doubled. Coughlin, Castner, and Captain Larson, again did most 
of the, work. 
-., While the 'Varsity was topping qif its^season with a victory.at Sioux City, the Freshmen concluded their schedule by winning, 14 to o, over the T. O. P.'s of Fort Wayne, before a large crowd. The snow-covered field discouraged open:work; .Lynch scored both touchdowns, and his .end-runs carried the ball within.scoring .distance on three .other occasions. / 
Msh Thoughts. 
U

Remember FonteiM^! ^ '. _ 
Liberty is moredesirable than peace. 
There are still numerous snakes in Ireland. 
England does not believe in sparing the rod. 
• England's policy: "Takealland give nothing." Ireland, — first in civilization and last in freedom. The British Empire is a compulsoryjeague jof nations. .. ' , A frown from America would bring England to her knees. ~ There is a place for everything and Mr.jBuU's place is in England. —"-•_, Washington did not think it necessary to warn the United States, against an alliance with England. ,^ _ :. _. England kicked ,the American colonies once 
too often, and she may do the same in the case of Ireland. 
• <-­

An Irishman loves a fair fight and a fair fighter, 
and this is bnie of^ the'reasons why he hates 
England. ' " 
The heel, of autocracy may be able to, crush the body but it can never cfush the spirit of democra<gr. 
The pronunciation-of ^an Irishman is called a brogue and is sneered at, while that o£ .an Englishman is an accent, cultivated by the so­tted best people. . '. • 
The British idea ol a joke is to get the repre^ sentatives of India and Eg]rpt to attend theT peace conference in France and then refuse jthem a passport back home. 
Bad government in Ireland costs forty dollars per capita, while good government in Belgiiuv costs about ten dollars per capita.. Where is the., advantage in being badly goyemed? ;r^ 
-i •

An Irishman .who refuses to learn the history 
of his countey or to support a movement to free-: 
the land of-his fbrefa.thers is a good Iri^mian i 
from the English standpoint. 
An .English commission has repeated, thatltiift":; British goyernment has derived 'Wi^faxe^ziiaa.T''':-: tipn. of ^$I,4Sm,oo6^ooo .frmn ;lVehmd^-^^ We.^arie• glad to le£ufn,tbat there sure;some Englisimteii .wh» are npVa&iMd^^of the factsvV J^ ^Ji 
-'...V^v-v' - --TjoTO-:BuciajS!r,':'2o^'--.; 
^&5e Nocn^ domeSchokwcic 


^ipe]|bnia§±olastic 
DISCE-QUASl-SEJ^VERVICTUn« "VIVE-QUASI-al\S^MCM?ITVlJV5 
EnttrU as Stcond-CUss MmU UaUn. 
» PmbHthed CTery Saturday durinc the Sdiool Term at the UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME. 

VOL. wn . DECEMBER 6. 1919. NO. n. 
Board of Editors. 

FRANCIS FARRINGTON, '20 WILLIAM C . HAVBT, '20 ROBERT ^ . O'HARA, '20 CHARLES A. GRIMES,'20 PAUL SCOPIBLD. '20 
CORNELIUS PALMER, '20 THOMAS J. TOBIN,> 
20 

THOMAS H. BBACOM, '20 J. SiNNoTT METERS, 
20 

ALFRED N . SLAGGERT, '21 PAUL R . CONAGHAN, '20 ARTHUR3. HOPE, '20 LEO 1,. WARD, '20 WILLIAM ROBINSON, '20 JENNINGS VuRPiLLAT, '20 WALTER M. O'KEEPB, '21 M. JOSEPH TIERNEY, '21 
Notre Dame teams have always had first-class coaches and extra good players. Our persistent victories, however, are not due to these alone. 
If they were, how could The Notre Dame Way. we from mere hundreds 
oi students, produce year after year, teams superior to those of schools with enrollments of thousands? Neither can our consistent success beattributed to the "incubator system" of interhall and junior athletics, for very few of the Varsity men have teen contrib­uted by interhall training. How then, may we account for NotreDame'sconstantpre-eminence? Let us look back at this year's game with Nebraska. Thefield,a tog of mud and sawdust, thousands of Netraskans cheering on our opponents, our team outweighed fifteen pounds 
t o the man—ever3rthing pointing to our defeat, and yet Notre Dame won, not by luck or chance,-but by pla3ring the better game, due to team training, individual pluck, and to the glorious N. D. spirit, animating all. What this last is, we all should kiiow, even if we could define it but poorly. It is our most precious heritage from our Alma Mater. Undying glory to the Varsity of 1919. -They ran true to type— and what greater praise coi|ld be given? Let the spirit which bore them to victory on the gridiron biear us in like .manner through the trials of the life^into whidi we.shall be flung in a few shmt months ac a-few years at most. Let us all play the^iame in the Notre Dame w&y. -~ 
In hisre\'iewof the Anny-Notre Dame game this year a New York journalist remarked: "Old-timers were reminded of the wonderful 
wprk here in 1913 when Rockne and "Rock." Dorais threw consternation into the 
Army ranks.and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. Rockne is now head coach of the Notre Dame eleven, and took delight in his team's victory today." Well may Knute Rockne be gladdened by the victories of his prot^gfe, for they proved that the Coach, a leading exponent of advanced football tactics in 1913, has become a most efficient mentor of a. progressive game^in 1919. Not until this year, since Rockne himself was a player, has Notre Dame had an undefeated eleven, and to his coaching more than to any ojther factor is due the phenomenal success of this season. True, he was favored in the begin­ning with excellent material for a winning team, but it has been his extraordinary ability in hand­ling men that has put Notre Dame in the championship class. "Rock" is above all a student of men. His remarkable control over them is rooted in their respect for him. And in their regard for Coach Rockne the football men but reflect the attitude of the whole student body, which rejoices in the knowledge that^the man who took care of his end in a way that made him national for three seasons is now taking most creditable care of Notre Dame's end in the world of college athletics.—T. j . T. 
The staking.out of the grounds recently for the erection of Old Students' Hall marked the beginning of a new era for Notre Dame. For 
the past few years the Old Students* HalL project uppermost in the' 
minds of all Notre Dame men has been the erection of this hall, which will furnish additional room on the campus and, be headquarters for the. visiting alumni. Toward the accomplishment of this work the Alumni have devoted their e:Torts, and now the dream is becoming a reality. This new building means two things for Notre Danie: it aTords needed rooming accommodations, which .will obviate the necessity of a larjge number of men living in the dty, and marks the beginning of a new quadrangle>For years thcf"Campus" has been the hub of our college life, a life in which the men lived in close toudi and enjoyed everything ' in common. The steady growth of the University has rendered sujch a building imperative if Notre Dame is to ret^ her^d traditions. This new 
)•
-^^.';'>^-;"~T:.­
'-'r 

'Sfie Nocre domeSdiokMCKr 
175 
'-I-

hall will be erected across the road, opposite the post-office. We welcome the "Sorin Hall" of the new era and extend oiu- heartiest thanks to the Alumni and former students who, by their generosity, have made its erection possible. 
—J. s. M 
/ 

The friendships we form at college are as valuable to us as the learning we derive from books. It has been aptly said that friends can 
do more for our welfare than we our-Friendship. selves can do. The value of friendship 
caimot te over-estimated. While in school we often allow what afterwards are seen to be trivial matters to influence us against our schoolmate. We may become angry in an argument that means little to either of us. We may go too far "in haying fun with others." Any variety of small incidents may cause ill feeling. A recent argument over the payment of a twenty-five cent debt changed two friends into avowed enemies! The boy supposed to owe the money admitted that he did not care if the other fellow ceased to be his friend, and gave as a reason that the latter would never influence his life. How does he know? Fate may bring these men together in later life and make one dependent on the other for promotion or success. Yet one was willing to sell his chances of success for a quarter of a dollar. We are too uncertain about the future to incur the ill-will of anyone. Some of us are bound to be successful in life and can undoubtedly help our less fortu­nate friends. Perhaps the boy against whom you now have a grudge will be the successful one. if this should be the case, wouldn't you feel foolish if this meaningless grudge should prove a stumbling-block to you?' Cultivate friendship while at college for it will mean much to you and aid your progress after leaving school. Be ever- on guard against unintentionally making enemies and never be willing ''to sell a friend." This is the least noble of what might be oiir views on friendship.—D. J. P. 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, 

November 24, 1919. Board of Editors, THE NOTRE DAIIB SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana^ Gentlemen: 
Permit me to compliment you on the very fine SCHOLASTIC which.you are issuing. I had the brief and arduous honor of being editor-in-chief for a few months in 1904) and I havie some conception of the effort and good luck required to turn out such a creditable paper.' 
What particularly attracted my attention in the last issue was the editorial on the S. A. T. C. I had the pleasure of being a member of the "Army of the Arkansas" at Camp Pike and was in the I. C. O. T. S. when the officers' training school was demobilized after the armistice. I take a considerable interest in ,the American Legion and was elected delegate to the Minneapolis Convention. At the time of the convention, however, the Oklahoma National Guard was called out on the coal mine strike, and as I have the fortune or misfortune to hold a captain's commission in the Guard. I was unavoidably prevented from attending the Minneapolis Convention. 
These introductory remarks are not entirely for the-purpose of personal advertisement, but to give some little force to my thorough agreement with your stand relative to the S. A. T. C. As you know, the military'' chiefs of the United States Army placed much more reliance on the abilities of the boys of 18 and 19. who largely made up this organization, ^han they did on the new draft law, calling men from 31 to 45. My .observation is that they were entirely correct frota the standpoint of military efficiency, and I think it a great pity that any discrimination should be shown against any branch or arm of~the service, particularly in a place like Notre Dame, where fair play was slways the slogan and nothing counted but the merits. 
You may be interested to know that our firm has recently opened an office in New York City. I am down there every month or so, and will be delighted to see any of the old Notre Dame crowd, of course. I feel that this connection will not only be profitable, but that it will give me an opportunity to affiliate mme closely with former Notre Dame men. ' 
The old'school, of course, has the first i^ace in my heart for many reasons, lint I think the greatest thing about it is the inspiration it gives to every ambitious boy, of whatever degree or~ circumstance in life, to succeed by striving. I very well recall the motto which opp(^ing teams used to post in their training quarters: "The Irish never know when they are licked." ' 
With best wishes and regards to the edit<ns.of the SCHOLASTIC, I remain Sincerely, THOMAS D . LYONS, '04. 
Book Review.­

Hills and the Sea, by Hillaire BeUoc.. The Methnoi Company, London. Price, $2.00 ^ 
Brother Alphonsus, ialways on the look-out for inter­esting and important additions to English Catholic literature, has recently placed in the Apostidate Library a biDok of essays by .Hillaire Belloc. This man of goiius, who possesses the natural logic of the Frendiman as well as the gift, of reverie proper to the best English minds, is probably the foremost jgumajist of-the day. Those who delight in intimacy with an original mind;^ and subtle thinking will find "Hills and the Sea" a book after their own heartis. One travels into smcient lands, whose soil.is fertile with human meaiorics.-lnitl one views them tUrough eyes fresh and fandfnl as'jt child's. No mnter of English has interpreted the 
-? -- s:-j 
-:;mm
^^mm 
rii<-rW^af. 
rv 
r 
176 
'Sfie Nocn& dameSdiokwcic 
religious mystery of Pans so well as the author in the essay called " The Arena," nor has anyone looked deeper into the heart of natural things than Mr. Belloc in "The Love Stream." Some other titles are: " The Idea of a Pilgrimage," "Autumn and the Fall of Leaves," and "The Guns." The essay is, after poetry, the literary form that best repays reading. " Hills and the Sea" is one of the most remunerative collections of modem essays. 
Washington Hall Events. 

Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C , former President of Notre Dame, delivered in Washing­ton Hall last Tuesday morning one of the most pleasing and helpful addresses of his career.' Speaking to the University men for the first 
"time since he took up his new duties in Wash­ington, our distinguished ex-President paid high tribute to the men who have been associated with him in the work of Catholic education, and made a plea for more active participation in public life by the men of Notre Dame. The spontaneous nature of the welcome to the former head of the University was evidenced in the introduction by Thomas^ Beacom, Presi­dent of the Senior Class and head of the Students Activities Committee. The prolonged applause of the audience showed that the admiration of the students for Father Cavanaugh has not in the least abated during his absence. They feel that in him they have one of the most genuine illustrations of the high ideal of service he urged upon the audience. Tributes to the memories of such men as Professors Stace, and Edwards, and to the work of such men as Professors McCue and Hoynes were paid by Father Cavanaugh, who declared that much of the glory of Notre Dame is Xhe. result of the devotion and zealous service of the lay professors. An ardent appeal for leadership in public life by Catholic college men formed the conclusion of the address. The speaker declared that little constructive work or legislation^ eq>ecially in Washington,.is being achieved by the men who have been educated in Catholic principles and that too many men are using their talents for mere personal gain. We hope 
Jthat we may have before the e:nd of.the.year the pleasure and benefit of numerous other addresses from Father Cavanaugh. 
*V ^Thfe evening the Orpheus Four, one of the 

^.best niale quartets oh the platform, will ^v e a concert in Washington Hall: Their appearance 
^..:^-;mm£MmM3m. 
at this time is due to the fact that they have ""already made a decidedly favorable impression on the students in a previous concert. A Aidde variety of songs, ranging from popular selections to the grand opera harmonies, may be expected, as well as delicate blending of voices. Next Wednesday evening John Kendrick Bangs, noted humorist and lecturer, will deUver in the college theatre his newest address, "Light and Shade in the Land of Valor." His conception "of a humorous lecture is to laugh with every­body and at no one, and the success he has a.ttained during the past years is evidenced by the large number of lectures he has to offer every year. Everybody can be sure of one of the best laughs of the season when they hear Mr. Bangs. The University Band will give its first concert 
-^in Washington Hall in the evening of Saturday the 13th of December and the Glee Club will appear in concert the next evening.—^F. s. F. • 
University Bulletin. 

Lost: Behind Sorin Hall a pipe with transparent stem and briar bowl. Finder please return to John Holden,* Badin Hall, and receive reward. 
Confessions will be lieard in the hall chapels every night after nightpriayer and in the base­ment chapel daily from 6:00 till 8:00 a.-m. and from 6:15 until 7:00 p. m. 
Day students are urged -to receive Holy Communion every morning during Advent. For their convenience a priest will remain in the basement [chapel until .8 :oo o'clock every morning. . . -\ 
There will be no ,mbr^ sectional meetings of the Chamber of .Commerce until after the holidays. Section! will meet Sunday, January 8th, and the other secticms will follow in order. The Chamber luncheon will be held on Saturday, December the 13th, at i :oo p. m. in the Misha­waka Hotel. Membei^ whose names are on Ilie delinquent list are not permitted to attend. The 
; speakers invited for the occasion are, Mr.jpaul 
^W.^ Brown,:oiF;St*,Loius, Editor of America,at Work, and Mx.zWm.GansDn Rose, of Cleveland, author of The Ginger Cure and of other, books on advertisiiijg ahd^btlKr kinds of business. 
^^:M-->^^iy^:r^'^S mj^is^s^f^ -'^i^^^&^HiS^iiLlf^^ 
'Sfie Nocre domeSdiokiscic 
Personals. 

—^Leo L. Tschudi (LL. M., '16) is now deputy , recorder for the city of Dubuque, Iowa.. —Columbus Conboy (B. S. A., '16) is now employed as chief designer for the Murphy 
Brothers, of Louisville, Kentucky.  
—Charles  Euart  (student  1900-03)  is  now  
Fraternal  Secretary  of  the  Catholic  Young  

Men's Association of America. —"The Church in Spanish America in the Sixteenth Century" is the title of an article 
*by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C. S. C, which appears in The Grail for the, 7th of November. —^Maximillian G. Ziebold, student of Walsh Hall 1916-17, of Waterloo, 111., was united in marriage on Nov. 19th to Miss Edyth Brickley, of Prairie de Roche, 111. The SCHOLASTIC 
extends them hearty congratulations. 
—Peter G. Dwj-er, star half-back on the 1909 and 1910 elevens, is now head of a life insurance agency in Syracuse, N.^ Y. During the war Pete was commissioned a first lieutenant and acted as athletic director in several southern camps." 
—Right Reverend Monsignor Philip O'Ryan, 
- S. T. L., rector of the Star of the Sea Parish, San Francisco, was the guest of his uncle. Reverend Timothy Maher, Cl S. C.,~at the University on Friday, November 21. The Monsignor promised to xetum to Notre Dame for alonger visit later. 
—^Rev. J. A. Langton, chaplain at 'West Point, N. Y., in a letter to Father Gallaghan, Prefect of Discipline, says the following regard­ing the Notre Dame-Army game: "Your team is bringing home victory again and believe me those boys deserved to winT I gave them a special Mass this morning and they were right there—even to receiving Our Lord. They will teli you all about the game. You tell them I saw ifall and prayed for them in the "pinches. They are the finest and cleanest bunch of little gla<^ators that I have seen on the field." . •—^Marcellus and Bernard Cremer, .students of Corby. Hall, 1916-17, are now employed in. the Russian Department of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, at Washing­ton, p. C. ' ' ';. 
Notre Dame undergraduates and alumni feel'just pride in the notable achievemdits of one of her sons, an officei^in the Marines/ Colonel. Hiram L. Bearrs, better known as "Hiking Hiram," who has gained widespread fame as a 
"Devil-Dog." The following excerpt from 
the Hartford Courant is a comprehensive account 
of his daring exploits: 
Colonel Hiram L. Beatrs, who commanded the' ' i02d United States Infantry, composed prindpaUy 6t 
Connecticut national guardsmen, has been put on the 
retired list by the War Department, according to word 
received here yesterday in well-informed military 
circles. 
Col. Bearrs, a marine officer, better known as " Hik­
ing Hi," was decorated eleven times for bravery and . 
recommended for brigadier-general by General John 
Pershing.. He is credited with leading the .load 
Regiment in what both French and American officuis 
considered the most daring deed performed during the 
war by a single regiment! At the St. Mihid drive, he 
broke through the V through which the Germans 
were retreating at the widest point on the western side, 
and after remaining in isolation three hours succeeded 
in taking and cutting.o£F Vigneulle, aind cutting off 
large numbers of German troops. ' 
Col. Bearrs received the sobriquet of "Hiking Hi" 
when a young officer in the Philippines. His reputation 
for bravery was well established before he went over­
seas as a major in the Sixth Marines. Among his 
decorations are the Distinguished Service Cross with 
palm, and the Croix de Guerre with palm. One of his 
exploits was the capture of a G^man lieutenant and 
two privates single-handed^ in No Man's Ltuid. 
Colonel Bearrs was in command of the io2d Infantry 
from August i, 1918, to November 1.1918, succeeding 
Colonel John H. (Machine Gun) Parker. Col.. Beans 
was relived by Colonel Douglas. Potts, who, was in 
command of the unit when it returned to this country. 
m%m 
Local News. 

—^At the meeting of Section III of the Chamber of Commerce in the Library last Monday evening, Mr. Charles Davis, '21, gave an interesting talk on "Advertising Notre Dame' which evinced the practical qualities of school spirit. Plans for the banquet of the local chamber are well advanced and Father O'Hara, has secured for the occasion speakers from St. Louis, Kansas City, and Toledo. ­
The men from New England celebrated 
the feast' of Thanksgiving. by a snmptuotu^ 
banquet at the Hotel Mishawaka. A most 
pleasant siuprisejras furnished the members by 4he arrival of Mrs. Ellen iRyan joUy and Ikfos. ^Rogerson as guests of honor. After an excellent repast, the members of the various states were called upon by Prc^dent Watos for a few/ r^nai^s. Mr.^J. C' Krippene, a veteran, of^ the Yankee Division, related a; few e^q^enences of the New England "outfit." Hany Benny 
'• % . 

r 
178 
^S5e Nocre dameSdiokwdc 
followed this number with a few artistic selec­
tions on the violin. Johin Ambrose and'* Paddy'' 
Granfield contributed some sparkling wit to 
the merriment of the evening. The event was 
followed with a talk by Mrs. Jolly, such as only 
she can give. 
—^The "Juggler" makes its bow to Notre Dame with the December issue. AJiumorous monthly, edited by three upperclassmen, Delmar Edmondson, Laurens Cook, and A. J. Moynihan, will make its appearance before the holidays. The first number will be tentative and the success of the magazine rests largely on the support given the first issue. Sparkling satire and wholesome wit will be the tone of the new magazine. 
—^The President of the University has received the following notice from thie Great Northern Sales Company with a request that it be brought to the attention of the students of the iJniversity: " Wanted:' Students who desire to profit financially during their spare time, to sell auto headlight controlling device to individuals and dealers. Very profitable terms. Apply to the Great Northern Sales Co., 305 Merchants' Bank Building^ Indian­apolis." 
—On December ist, Dr. James Bums, C. S. C , President of tiie Universify, was the guest of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. At the meeting Mr. William Wenzel discussed "The Vacuum Tube as a Generator of Alternating Currents" and James Trant treated the subject of "Trans-Atlantic Radio Communication." After con­gratulating the speakers on their excellent papers, Dr. ^ Bums gave an enthusiastic talk to the. engineers encouraging them in their work. 
—On Monday evening, December ist, th ^ local branch of the Friends of Irish Freedom were fortunate in having as their guest Father Philip O'Donnell, of Boston. President Tobin before introducing Father O'Donnell, called upon Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly for a few introductory remaiks. In reviewing the achievements of the Irish-Americans'< in America history, Mrs. Jolly paid tributes to the heroism of General Meagher and Father Corby; Following Mrs.^ Jolly's ^)eech. Dr. Cornelius Hagerty, C. S. C", supplemented Mr. Tobin's . introduction of ^ Faither O'Donnell. Treating the'.gloriiK-of bdland Father O'Donnell sketched the pre­
eminence of the Irish scholars, musicians, and patriots. Father "Phil," as he is lovingly called by his parishioners, related some of his adventures on visits to Ireland.^ His whole speech evidenced an ardent devotion to the Sinn Fein cause. The Friends of Irish Freedom were privileged to meet the orator-priest after the meeting and all look forward to another visit from the distinguished guest. 
^-w. M. O'KEEFE, 20. 
mmm 
Allilettc Notes. 

NOTRE DAME, 14; MORNINGSIDE, 6. Before a large crowd of gridiron enthusiasts, w;ho were not in the least discouraged by the inclement weather, Notre Dame humbled Morn­ingside in a hotly contested game at Sioux City last Saturday, 14 to 6. Although Morningside furnished stiff opposition for Rockne's men, it may be safely said that the weather saved the lowans from a much worse defeat. Notre Dame was slow in starting, and the Cora-State eleven, taking advantage, succeeded, with a series of brilliant end dashes by Hinkley and Wenig, in scoring a touchdown in the first five minutes of play. Captain Wenig failed at the kick for the^goal. Morningside's taste of triumph was very temporary. The Gold and Blue, roused into action by the apparent ease with which the lowans had "put one over," took the aggressive. For the rest of the first quarter Morningside strove valiantly against the sinashing attacks and the end-sprints of the Gold-and-Blue backs. The quarter ended with "the ball on the enemy's twenty-yard line and the "Irish fairly, rarin' to carry on." With Gipp and his crashing aids canying the ball, the,Morningside defense was brushed aside and the ball ^n t over. Gipp added a mark with the old toe. A Sioux City reporter, inspired by the powerful drives of the Hoosier battering rains,- thus narrates the onslaught: ^'The marker failed to undaunt the visitors, who were slow in getting undet way^ In the second period the Notre Dame forwards in the back­field opened the throttle wide and ripped their way to a touchdown by some of the most sensational line-plunging ever seen on a Sioux City gridiron. Miller, Slackford, and Gipp hit the line dose to the ground and at such terrific speed that notldng short of k reinforced concrete wall would havestemmed the tide." ' Noixe Dame put a-kick well down into 
-J . ';• -".-.Jj-/ ~: 
-. --yr^ V'vC^-'.J:-:'­

'Sfie Nocre dameSdiGlatcic 
179 

Morningside's territory and the lowans, failing oh line-plunges, were forced to punt out of bounds. Captain Bahan and Gipp advanced the ball around end for substantial gains, but the Methodists braced mbmentarily and Gipp putted. By pretty dodging Hinkle)^ returned to midfield. The Iowa backs were next hurled for big losses and the ball'went over on downs. Again Momingside held and the ball went to the lowans for some more brilliant runs by Hinkley. After an exchange of punts between Wenig and Gipp, the half ended with the ball in Notre Dame territory. Then in demonstration of her championship form, Notre Dame opened up the third quarterwitha sensational aggressive. Again the Sioux City scribe, impressed by the spectacular work of Rockne's backfield com­bination, admires: "By successive end-runs, forward passes, and terrific line-smashing, the Catholics placed the pill on the one-yard line, where the Momingside line made official applica­
tion for a niche in the hall of fame by holding the visitors and causing them to lose the ball on downs." Wenig's punt from behind the goal line^was harassed by Anderson and Kirk, and the ball went out of bounds twelve yards from the Maroon line. Four smashing drives, led by big Gipp, resulted in the second interment of the pigskin behind the Momingside goal, and a point for goal was added by Gipp. Notre Dame then cut loose with an aerial bombardment that was uniformly successful, but the numerous chances to score failed to improve the fourteen points. The game ended with the ball deep in Moming­side territory. 
The Sioux City Triune, commenting upon the result of the game, suggests the esteem in which the Notre Dame eleven is held in the West. "Davis, Gantt, and Captain Wenig did not show 
,to such advantage as they have in previous encounters, but their work was just as brilliant —owing to the classy opposition they were confronted with. Davis rammed the Catholic line hard, but the Indiana stone-wsdl was simply his equal. Ted Gantt and Captmn Wenig were in stellar form, but the Catholics, polished with experience from playing" (and incidentally defeating) "the best elevens in the country.met the attack of the Methodist forwards squarely. The fact, however, that Momingside held the unbeaten Notre Dame football aggregation to two touchdotras will cause no uttle amount of international chatter in the football world." The summary: 
NOTRS DAMB ^ MOKNINGSIDS 
Kiley ' L. E. Day 
.Cottghlin L. T. Rorapaugh 
H. Anderson L. G. Steele Trafton — ^ C. Homey Smith R. G Beck Degree R. T. Marcell 
E. Anderson R. E. Wenig Brandy Q^B. Uoyd Gipp L. H. Davis Bahan R. H. Gannt MiUer F. B. Hinkley 
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Slackford for Miller; Barry for Bahan; Kirk for Kiley; Touchdowns: Notre Dame, 2; Brandy, Gipp; Moraingside—Hinkley. Goals from ^ouchdown: Gipp, 2. Momingside—none. 
—^A. N. SLAGGERT. 
* 
* * 

N. D. FRESHMEN, 14; T. O. P., o. Coach John Miller's undefeated Freshmen finished their splendid season by winning from the powerful T. O. P. eleven of Fort Wayne at Fort Wa3me on Thanksgiving Day, 14 to o. The game was played in a blinding snowstorm, which badly handicapped the yearlings whenever they tried to advance the ball by the aerial route. Immediately after the kick-o?, the game developed into a punting duel between Castner and Ralph MiUer of the opposition. The first half ended with no score and the ball in mid-field. In the third period the Freshmen opened up a fast forward-passing attack, alternating with N line bucks, l^omas made five yards through the line, thereby placing the iKtll on the T. O. P. 45-yard line; The next play developed into a long, dodging end-run by Coughlin, who was not downed until he had reached the 5-yard marker. A moment later the same man went over for the first touchdown, and Castner kicked goal. Shortly after the kick-oSF, Lynch dis­tinguished himself by picking a forward pass out of the air and running through the entire ^ Fort Wayne team for the final touchdown of the game. L>nch also kicked goal. The final quarter saw the ball see^sawmg in the middle of the,field,^and the T. O. P. outfit trying des­perately, but without success, to scon by the forward-pass route. For Fort Wayne, Chambers, MillerjDempsejr, 
and Bradley starred; for the Freslmien, Lyfich, Coughlin, and Castner were the feature men. 
N. D. FRBSHMBN T. O. P.^ 
Carberiy _ L. E- E. WilkiBs-. Garvey . L. T. . Flaherty DeGree h. G. .WMte Larson (Capt.) _ C. . ; T^gjes 
i8o ^^5e Nocn& dame Schokwcicr 
Parker , R. G. Suelzer, Merchant Donohue R. T. Smith Seifert R. E. Hilgeman Thomas Q. B. E. Miller Coughlin L. H. R. Miller Castner F. B. Chambers Lynch R. H. Dempsey,Wilkins -Bradley 
Touchdowns: Coughlin, and Lynch. Goals from Touchdown: Castner, and Lynch. Referee: Ritter; umpire: Riker.— -E. w. GOULD. 
~ 
*** CORBY HALL, 26; PENN COLLEGE, O. 

The reinforced chamjnonship eleven of Corby Hall shattered all records for travel in their Thanksgiving Day game played in Oskaloosa, Iowa, where they defeated Penn College, 26 to o, on a slippery field in zero weather. The Corbyites scored thirteen, six, and seven points respectively in the first three quarters, using the forward pass and end-runs with sure e-Tect despite the slow field. "Biff" Lee, former basetall aiid football man at Noire Dame and now coach at Penn, declared the game the best and cleanest football exhibition staged there this year. The '' Quakers did not seriously threaten Corby's goal at any time-. Mr. and Mrs. Dowling entertained Father Haggerty's squad in royal manner at the Hotel Dowling. An after-the-game feature was the edition of the college journal carrying a full story of the game for sale on the street ten minutes after the final whistle. Eighteen men made the trip: Atkinson, Ward, Conner, Miller, Conway, Murphy, Bliebemicht, Sexton, O'Hara, Kasper, and W3mn composed the first string stsuling the game. Desch, Moore, Heuther, Foley, Hart, Sharpe, and Robb all got into the play for at least a few minutes. Corby's record for the season is five ga;mes won, one tied,-and: one lost.­
*** 

BROWNSON, 20; MICHIGAN CITY HIGH, O. 
. On a field covered with snow, Brownson Hall decisively defeated the. Michigan. City High School onThuiksgivihg Day by uie neat margin of 26-0.- The excelidit display of teamwork by the "Dormitory Bo5rs'',~was a credit to Coach Sanders, and it is difficult to understand the poor showing of Jbis men in.the interhaU contests! All points, induding. three touchdowns and a safety, ware scored, within the first two periods, after which numerous subs^tutions were made.~ Heimann and De Corps formed an irresbtible offcaisive, the folder tearing through th§ Mich­igan-line time and againdTor good gains.; The^ defensive work of Aviles and Boley merited faVor-. 
able comment. The removal of Lou Walsh early in the game, the result of a broken shoulder,, was the only impleasant incident of the contest. Touchdowns were scored by Smith, Heimann, and Boley.—^M. J. T. 
* 
* * 

INTERH ALL GAMES. With the Varsity and Freshmen teams 
. upholding the reputation of Notre Dame in outside competition, it remained for the Inter­haU League to complete the football atmosphere which pervaded the campus. Rivalry among the hall teams could not have been more intense. The players entered into the games with the fighting spirit so characteristic of Notre. Dame football warriors. The championship honors go to Corby Hall, whict defeated Walsh last Sunday by the score of 12 to 6. "Bill" Hayes, the fleet dash-man from the East, did most of the work for the "hall of victrolas," while the playing of "Red" Ward, Martin, Desch, and and Bliebemicht was the feature of Father Haggerty's men. The only seriouis injuries, of the year occurred in this game, in which Martin, stellar guard, suffered a compound fracture of his ankle. 
The invincible Sorin squad triumphed over Brownson last Sunday in a 13-to-o victory. The battering line-pltmges and long end-runs of the elusive Miles and the efficient work of Captain Murphy, Hallet, and L^ y stood out promineiitly in the Sorin no-substitute teain. Heiman, Breeh, and Hoen did the special work for Brownson. Shea and Nixon are the stars on the Badin Hall team, which also put up a hard fight for the championship honors. 
Many who saw the Sorin-Brownson game are confident that Sorin-has the best team in the league and ian effort is now being made for the arrangement of another game between Sorin and Corby.—^P.R.C.' -7 
The following icbinmutiication was recently received from an alumnus oi Brooklyn:; " Here is another straw for the .'Irish' controversy recently carried on in the columns of tiie SCHOLASTIC. I«opks as ^^ the Iri ^ are. 'breaking the he ^ of the worid' as to fdotbaU." Th^ "straw" in'question isfrom the pen of Grant-land Rice, the noted isfmirt-writer,. and hi follows: "Wi& Noifre^Dame^^^s^ Army' team.fand Georgetown TO Navy, why pan Enigiand for, fier inaWlity to settle the Irish;;qu^tidn?"^^ Z . i ^ . 
.-fr."" 
Mz&i-c^'-: 

'^fte Hocre ^ome Sehoiogcie iS i 
Press Comments on Notre Dame Football. 
Followers of the gridiron sport in the Nebraska camp need offer no apologies for the Comhuskers, who bowed in defeat to one of the cleverest forward-passing teams in college football, east or w^est.—(From the Lincoln State Journal, for Sunday, Oct. 19th.) 
*** 

Who was it said the little Irish Brandy would not get into the game because of his injuries? However, he was in there Saturday with a patch over one eye directing the plays of his team. . . . Indiana's football team went down.to defeat Saturday at the hands of the magnificent Notre Dame combination, by a i6 to 3 count. Despite the handicap of playing on a field which was in most places three inches deep in mud and water, the flashy Irish backfield was able to make long and consistent gains by forward passes and end runs, and the opposing line baffled the Crimson offense at almost ' every stage of the contest. Indiana was not outfought, " but was outclassed.... The work of Gipp and Bergman featured the contest throughout for Notre Dame. Indeed, the Irish backfield is one of the speediest and most brilliant ever seen on a Hoosier gridiron. .. . Notre Dame practically cinched the state title for 1919 by its victory over Indiana, for there is little.doubt but that Purdue will also fall before the versatile Catholic -offensive. Notre Dame is now being heralded as one of the greatest grid combinations in the country, and ', is being touted to defeat West .Point next Saturday. 
—(From the Indiana Daily Student, November 4.) 
• % 

A bewildering aerial attack aided and abetted by sensational end-runs, off-tackle smashes and line-plunges in the second quarter by Gipp, Bergman, and Slackford threw consternation into the Crimson camp yesteyday afternoon at Washington Park, and the Notre Dame gridders pushed over a victory on Indiana, .-jt6 io 3. A field which was ankle deep in mud and water in spots was anything but conducive to sensational football, but Bergman and Gipp and the entire Notre Dame squad put up a football battle hard to compete with. To the wet and sloppy condition of the field can Indiana attribute its success in holding the score close. The field was ih such a condition that Bergman, considered-the flashiest backfield man in the West, was unable to get his stride, except in a few instances. He. used the "come-back" play with such success he was" able to wiggle and squirm through the Indiana team-for gains of from ten to thirty yards. It was his sensational dashes which placed the ball in scoring territory several times while he was in the contest. 
George Gipp ably assisted. Bergman in the Irish drive toward the Indiana goal line.—(From the Indian­apolis 5tor,. Simday, November 2.) ' , 
**• Too much credit cannot be given Notre Dame for the position it gives Hoosier land in the sun on the 
• gridiron map.^ Season in and.season out this institution 
/ throws forth one of the greatest football machines in the.country. How they do it while other Hoosier institutions fail to come up to the standards set by the Irish is a mooted question.-;. Still the fact stands that the Irish team is far and away^ better than any other 
Hoosier eleven this season,—that is, if dope can be 
depended upon just a trifle. The Irish have yet to 
tackle Purdue, but it is hardly to be expected that the 
Boilermakers can hold the wonderful backfield Coach 
Rockne has to throw at opposing teams this season. 
A team with such a backfield as Notre Dame possesses 
can hope to make a creditable showing against the country's best. Next Saturday at West Point the Irish team will have a chance to show just how strong it is against a team that can be considered as represen­tative of_the East. To win that game Rockne will be forced to show all his tricks, all his gridiron knowledge, and more football than his eleven has been wont to show this season The Notre Dame line, although a bit light, has a fight and an aggressiveness that bodes evil for opposing linemen. Getting the jump on the other fellow is a big asset to a lineman. These men Coach Rockne has workingforhimhaveability Their drive, especially that of Madigan, H. Anderson, "•Coughlin, Degree, and Smith, opened great gaps in the Indiana defense, but the field was such that the Notre Dame backs could not get started in the right direction. 
In Bergman and Gipp, Notre Dame has two of the 
•greatest backfield men in the West. Bergman is like chained lightning. He is little, but runs the ball with dazzling speed., He never stops until he hits the ground. He resembled an eel Saturday by the manner in which . he slipped from the grasp of would-be Indiana tacklers. Gipp does not play such a dashing game as does Bergman, but he gets there just the same. He has a wizard toe, can hurl-the ball o^n forward passes'with unerring accuracy. He can run the ends or smash the line off tackle for steadygains. 
Alongside of these two sterling players, Rockne has-Bahan and Slackford. Both of these men are well above the ordinary. Both are steady and have foot­ball sense. Besides"" these backs he has several other substitute backs weU^ble to hold their end of the play whenever they are called upon; Barry and Bahan are ground-gainers, while the latter is a good field general and calls his signals with a commanding voice. He puts much pep and fight into his teain. 
The Irish wing men are wonderful performers. Either Kirk or Anderson can snag the pill out of the air on forward passes with great skill. Both are fast and wonderful defensivd men. It was seldom in Saturday's game that either was boxed. They broke up what little interference Indiana displayed and got through to get their man time after time. Any way you look at it, the entire West will be pulling for the Irish against the Army, for this section holds considerable pride in its football teams. Notre Dame will carry with it the well wishes of some of its bitterest opponents on the gridiron. This contest will be one of the big intersec-­tional clashes- of the season and will be one of the biggest games on the gridiron card for Saturday.­—(From the Indianapolis Star, November.3.) 
At West Point the Army will play the sixth game with Notre Dame. The Indiana eleven holds the upper hand in the series by three to two, and we look for.it to make the count four to two. Notre Dame 'this season has shown that same old Notre Dame ability to work the (^rward pass. Jesse Harper, who'coached 
ri. ­
l82 ^Kfie Nocre dame ^diokwcicr 
the Hoosiers in previous years, has given way to Rockne and Dorais, who as players introduced the Cadets to the forward pass in 1913 with as bad a beating as the Army ever got. Notre Dame has an experienced line and a strong backfield and an attack which is. much further advanced, than the Army's.—(By Daniels, in the New York Sun, on Nov..7.) 
*** 

The squad that Coach Rockne, former All-American end, is bringing East with him is every bit as husky as their Army rivals. Bergman, at right halfback, is the star of the aggregation. Against Nebraska a couple of weeks ago he received the ball on a double pass on his own ten-yard line and ran through the entire Nebraska team for a touchdown. In all of Notre Dame's other contests Bergman has been the big factor in their scoring. Bahan at quarter is a good field general and a capable thrower of the forward pass. It is at this sort of game that the Westemeis excel. A majority of their points to date have been tallied via the overhead route. 
The rush line which Notre Dame will present is not as heavy as the one that Coach Daly will muster. Coughlin at left tackle is the only forward who tips the beam at more than two hundred pounds. Madigan and Smith, center and right guard, weigh less than 160 pounds each. H. Anderson, at the other guard, and Degree, at right tackle are the next heaviest. The former weighs 174 pounds while Degree is credited with a weight of 182. Kirk and £. Anderson, at the ends, weigh" 163 pounds each. However, they are a fast, . hard-playing pair. Both are good receivers of the forward pass. Notre Dame has compiled a record of 157 points to their opponents' 19. Victories over Kalamazoo, Mt. Union, Western Normal, Nebraska and Indiana are credited to them. They are a formid­able aggregation.—(By Toin Thorp, in the New York Evening Journal, November 7.) -_ 
With the score 9 to o in favor of the Army, du2 to a touchdown by McQuarrie in the first period and his goal from placement in the first part of the second period, the Westerners started. Notre Dame had just received tha kick-off, following the second Army score, and about five minutes remained of the period. The Notre Dame players acted like a bunch of wild catsl They jumped about and slapped their little star quarterback, Joe Brandy, who weighs but 135 pounds. They hadn't expected this Army onslaught and they beseeched Brandy to open up. "Let's go, Joe. Let's go." And Joe went. He opened up with an assortment of forward passes with Kirk, regarded as the greatest forward pass grabber, on the receiving end. Kirk's^ specialty is pjuddng the flying oval from under the very noses of-liis opponents while on the dead run. In almost less time than it takes to relate it Notre D|ime had scored a touchdown and the half ended. 
" We'U get that other touchdown in the next half," the-visitors snapped out as they left, the field. And they did. They got the second soon after the third period began. And in the final period the light forwards. of the visitors played the C^ets to a standstill, which was.spme achievement in itsdf... . . Danid kicked off to MSUer, who had replaced Sactdord in the. second 
half, and this boy, who is known as the "kid with the rubber legs," having been an acrobat in a circus at one time, brought the ball to the 40-yard line. 
(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 8.) — 

Notre Dame, always a fast, aggressive eleven, beat the Army today, 12 to 9, in one of the most interesting and hardest-fought-games ever staged on the Plains. The Westerners flashed their usual repertoire of air­line plays, and when other methods of attack failed them they made these overhead tosses work to excellent advantage. . . . Bahan and Gipp, two powerful back­field men, figured prominently in all the visitors' forward pass play. Both these huskies tossed with unerring accuracy, and Bahan was-on the receiving end most of the time. Occasionally E. Anderson got clear, and a long toss found him under the ball with outstretched 
• arms. . .. The Westerners probably launched fifteen or twenty of these overhead plays and all except four or five were successful. Long and short passes, wee ones, just over the line of scrimmage, were frequencly resorted to, and they threatened the Cadets to such an extent that old-timers were reminded of the wonderful work here in 1913 when Dorais and Rockne threw consternation into the Army ranks and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. . . . Rockne, by the way, is head coach of the Notre Dame eleven and took delight in his team's victory today.—(From the New York 
Times, Nov. 8.) 
Notre Dame, once more exhibiting an excellence with the forward pass, which attack has more than once carried them to victory over the Army, beat the West Pointers today, 12 to 9, in an interesting and hard-fought game. The Hoosiers, except for the initial period, outplayed the Cadets. . . . The Westerners flashed a pair of excellent wing men in E. Anderson and Kirk. ^ Degree's punting was also of high grade.—(From the New York Herald, Nov. 8.) 
' •** 

The Army lost to Notre Dame, 9 to 12, today in a close and hard-fought game. The Westerners, except for the opening period, played better than the soldiers. Notre Dame's air line attack ultimately proved to be" 
-the Army's undoing. Coming from behind with th'escore 9 to o in the Army's favor, the visitors launched over­head plays for long and short tosses, which upset the Cadets in the second period. .. . Gipp, Brandy, E. Anderson, and Bahan featured in Notre Dame's game. —(From the Buffalo Express, Nov. 9.) 
*** 

The Notre Dame deven vanquished the West Point team here today by the score of 12 to 9. It-was a case of open style oLfootball triumphing, over the old, line-^ smashing game. -Notre Dame's forward pass tactics 
_ proved too much, for the Soldiers and turned victory into defeat. Vainly did the Army men shift their defensiye foliations in an attempt to stop the long passes which the Westerners repeatedly completed, carrying the ball down the field for gains of many yards.. These took the heart otit of the Army followers and brought the Notre Dame, cohorts to their feet in delight. . .1. Degree, the-Notre Dame'iicker, oiit­punted McQuanie time after time during the second 
•:.' J^^^5" 

^fie Nociv dame SdiolatGiGr 
quarter, but later in the game, with the wind at his back, the Army halfback began getting his kicks off in better shape, and the advantage which the Western team had gained was lost During the rest of the third quarter they punted out of danger whenever their goal was threatened and the long spirals from Degree's boot kept the Army well in the center of the field. The Notre Dame ends got down under each kick in short time and repeatedly nailed the Army backs with almost no gain:—(From the New York Sun, Nov. 9.) 
* _ * * — 

Notre Dame is one of the speediest teams seen in these parts this year. And the big reason for its swift attack is the fact that it uses the direct pass in most of its formations. Brandy hardly utters his signals^ before the backs are in motion—^which means that Madigan, the center, must be pretty good to make as many passes as he does in a game without a slip. There are several good forward pass receivers among the colleges this year, but it is doubtful if any of them surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame, for catching passes. He caught no less than five against the Army Sattu'day, all netting substantial gains. One of his catches brought the ball thirty-three yards to the Army 7-yard line, whence the Westerners went over for their first touchdown. The passes of^the Hoosiers succeed largely because they are thrown over the center of the line to Kirk or a back who cuts in. Another runner goes ahead and picks out the defensive half, leaving the runners a clear field down the counter lane, a most clever play on the whole, which succeeds in the majority of attempts.—(Prom the New York Tribune, Monday, Nov. 9.) 
"Butch" Scanlon, Purdue Coach, says, "Bergman is a second Harley, but has been having trouble with an injury to his knee and the standing at the-end of the game depends on how long Bergman will last.". . . Be­cause of this record our team expects to. be given the hardest battle of the year and are especially anxious for a victory over the fighting Irish as such an accomplish­ment would win us national recognition.... In Gipp and Bergman the Catholics have two of the best half­backs in America. " Bergman is known for his fleetness and ability to get away in the~ open field and can be counted on to give the opponents much worry. Gipp will be remembered as the powerful half who last year made consistent and long gains against Purdue when the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one of the best forward passers in the game.—(From the Purdue Exponent, Saturday, Nov. 22.) 
•V ' ­Notre Dame disposed of Purdue in a smashing, ex<^ting 33-13 game, and with the elimination of Ohio State by Illinois, remains the only undefeated team in the West, with a mighty good daim to the Westam title... . The Notre Dame-Purdue game was marked by the kind of sportsmanship that should stamp eyery contest. Time after time members of one team, would hurry to the £ud of an opponent who was laid.out; the Purdue-stands ceased cheering when Notre Dame had the ball in front of the Purdue cheering section so that 
the signals could be heard; and when Birk was hurt, the Notre Dame stands gave him a big yell..., When you come to the end of a perfect pass it's an easy bet that you'll find Bergman or Kirk at the receiving end. In fact the great triple-pass combination, Berginan to Gipp to Kirk, took one back to the basebaU dajrs of the famous old "Tinker to Evers to Chance;" both were deadly in effectiveness and mighty unpopular with the other fellow.—(Prom the Indianapolis News, Monday, Nov. 24.) 
•% 

Yes, we have got to "hand it" to Notre Dame. Those were some forward passes yesterday... . After holding Notre Dame scoreless while they put across a touchdown and kicked goal in the first period, the Boilermakers finally went down under the wonderful passing offensive of the Irish and were defeated 33-13 on Stuart field yesterday afternoon in a game which gave Notre Dame the state championship. The Catholics were helpless to score around the Purdue ends or through the old Gold and Black forward wall, but their 
•passing game, which swept the Purdue team off its feet at times, was one of the most perfect that has been witnessed on the Purdue field in several years. The combinations Bergman to Kirk and Gipp to Kirk wer^ those that rarely failed, and all the points scored by the Notre Dame team were a direct result of their work. —(From The Purdue Exponent, for Sunday, Nov. 23.) 
*** . 

The four finest ends in the state tiys year were 
undoubtedly the Notre Dame and Wabash pairs. 
Kirk is undoubtedly the best forward pass receiving end 
in the country. . . . Halfbacks are^ galore, plunging 
backs; backs that wiggled and backs that just made 
touchdowns, but out of the lot emerge two wonders, 
the great Notre Dame pair, Gipp and Bergman. No 
man in the country throws a better pass than Gipp, and 
he is no slouch of a ground gainer either. Bergman is 
another Harley. Nuff said.—(Prom the Indianapolis 
News, Monday, Nov. 24.) 
**• 

Six years ago Knute K. Rockne was an end and 
captain of the ^otre Dame football team, and' about 
the best lineman the^Gold and Blue ever had. With 
Dorais at quarter and Rockne at end the Notre Dame 
attack was irresistible. ~When Jesse Harper quit foot­
ball and returned to business life, he left a sorry, gap for 
local officials to fill. Harper's principles had won much 
fame for Notre Dame and his system fitted O. K. 
They needed some one to jam into Harper's berth, 
and one whohad taken training under Harper himself 
was naturally preferred. Along toddled Rockne and 
they signed him at once. "Rock" took a tough 
baptism last year, due to the chaotic'state of athletics 
on account of the war, but he nevierthdess turned out 
a-fast outfit. --~ 
That one year was enough to tip him off on a lot of 
the finer intricacies of coaching, and since that'time 
he has been as wise as the rest of them.' He hasn't yet 
ascended to the plane where he thinks he knows it all; 
but he commands the respect of every man on the 
squad, and well he may, for Notre Dame is coming 
through in great shape this fall, and largdy through 
Rockne's capable direction. ~ 
"Rock" coaches his men the way he used to iday, 
and he spends a lot of time with his line showing them 
letiQ Hcfcre (bameSdKkistic 
what to do by example. The snowy-headed mentor gets down-and demonstrates by action what he wants his men to do against their opponents, and he's a sure success of what's what in tactics.—(By Archie Ward, in the Indianapolis Star, Nov. i.) 
** 
* 
Again it is the Notre Dame Irish who have put the 
West on the football map. . . . Notre Dame followers 
will look back to the 1919 season as one of the greatest 
an Irish team ever went through with. .. . A victory 
over Notre Dame would have been the greatest 
achievement a Purdue team has done in eight.years.... 
But trying forward passes on Notre Dame is nigh on to 
disastrous at any stage of the game. .. . So alert and 
active are the men of Rockne at handling the ball an 
opposing team alwaj's runs a dangerous chance when 
it shoots the oval into the air.-... It is doubtful if there 
is a team in the country that can compete with the 
Irish in this method of advancing*the ball. . . . Week 
after week the Purdue team has been drilled in breaking 
up this method of attack but it just couldn't be done 
George Gipp, one of the most versatile players in the 
West, shot the oval with such unerring accuracy to his 
eligible men Purdue couldn't cover. It looked at times 
as if it was an impossibility for Gipp to find a man 
loose, and some blue-jerseyed Irishman would leap 
from nowhere to grab the oval. Such accurate handling 
of the ball was almost beyond conception.—(By 
John W. Head, in the In^dianapolis Slar, Monday, 
Nov. 24.) 
*** 
With Notxe Dame suppressing the Army team and 
Georgetown conquering the Navy, why pan England for her inability to settle the Irish question? -(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 18.) ' 
*** 
An exchange prints this lineup, all founded on fact: Church, Harvard; Pope, Indiana; Bliss, Stevens; Christian, Williams; Kirk, Notre Dame; Pope, Ham­ilton; Abbott, Syracuse; Piyor, Tufts; Pugh, Swarth­more; Churchman, Virginia; Toogood, Hayerford, —Chicago American. 
** * 
It is rarely given to a line player to star for his team, but in the entire array of Notre Dame fighters there is no more brilliant performer than "Slip" Madigan, pivot man of the Gold and Blue eleven. To this husky center can Notre Dame give credit in no small degree that opposing teams have failed to crumble the line. He is the athdte who took care of Green, the Army center, touted as an all-American player, and, in short, he is perhaps the most consistent performer on the Notre Dame first line defense. 

Madigan, for all his brilliant play this season, has been constantly outweighed by his opponents. He carries only 157 pounds and he ranks as one of the lightest centers'in the "grid" annals of the Gold and Blue. But Madigan has proved that a ^superiority in avoirdupois is the least of the advantages in a real foot­ball struggle; \ and he has likewise proved that the bigger they come the harder they fall. Particularly did he prove this in the game at West Point, where he was opposed by a man who tipped the team at well over the 200 mark. .. . . "Hunk" Anderson~and, Maurice Smith, the guards, are tried veterans, with a list of 
victims not less worthy than those of Madigan. They 
have earned their positions through a season's battles 
with a bunch of ambitious rivals that made the final 
selection a matter of doubt right up to the minute of the 
kick-off of the Kalamazoo game. . . . Kirk and E. 
Anderson, the Notre Dame ends, carry with them the 
confidence of the entire student body. No more fleet 
or gifted wing men have worn the Gold and Blue in 

several seasons. Kirk's ability in grabbing passes has 
been a fea;ture of every game played by Rockne's men 
this fall.—(By Archie Ward, in the South Bend Tribune, 
for Wednesday, Nov. 19). 
Negotiations between Coach Rockne of Notre Dame and Andy Smith of th^ University of California for a post-season game on the coast have been opened. Last season the game was practically arranged, but when both teams lost so many star players who were called into service, the contest was called off. If Notre Dame goes west it can do so as a representative team of this section. The Hoosier eleven has not lost a game this season and a^it only has to play the Michigan Aggies, Purdue, and ^orningside colleges, there is little likeli­hood of its meeting with a defeat. Notre' Dame has beaten Nebraska, Indiana, and the Army, and is as strong an aggregation as there is in the West.—(By Walter Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune of Nov. 11.) 
*% 

Where are the giants of yesteryear? Mclnerny, Bachman,Keefe, Feeney,Lathrop, Fitzgerald, Rydzew­ski and the rest. Many of them will be in Indianapolis Saturday for the Notre Dame-Indiana game, but one we know will not be there—Big Mac, the cheerful, the hard-fighting, the unafraid. He lies out there on the old western front, and we know that in his last fight against the Hun he was the same old cheerful, hard-fighting, daring Mac that went through so many gridiron battles for Notre Dame. But the spirit of Big Mac and of all the others is the spirit of the little Notre Dame team of 1919. .. . It is a big task this "little" team has cut out for it—to carry on the work oh its Ifirger precedessors. But the size of the job hasn't got these boys bluffed any more than the monster Nebraska line, which they outplayed. 
"If the line can hold, the backfield will'ramble.!' This seems to be-the theory of Rockne's campaign this year. In the backfield there is enough material to makp a track team. There are backs that sprint,~T}acks that buck; backs that worm their way throtigh a broken field, in fact, some backfield. 
At the ends there are Kirk and Anderson, who did the impossible when they stopped Paddy DriscoU, former Northwestern star the time Notre Dame played the Great Lakes team Is^t year, and this season no opposing team has put over^a successful end run against this combination.. .. Dudley. Pearson, who plays sub-quarter, has charge of tickets for the game Saturday, paints the banners for the pee-rade, hires the special trains, is manager of the ^udents' special, knows every-• thing about everything, answers all questions about the game and attends classes., Outside of this he has all his spare time to do as he-pleases.—(By ..Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis-J\r«oj, Friday, Oct. i.) 
the Houn? 5aine Scholasdc A6Cerci8einent» 


Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. 
Main 0£Bce. Cor. Micb. and Colfax Ave. 
BELL 5X4 HOME 55»5 
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICB 

One or two passengers, . . -fi.oo Each additional passenger, ~ --.50 Special trip for Baggage, ---$1.00 Each additional Trunk, ----• 50 Suit Case, -­
•«5 
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. 
RATES REASONABLE 
GAPTo JACK 
cJ Low Conh­
\Jdrtable Coh lar qfwide reputation 
OLDEST BRAND M AMERICA 
UMTCO •MIRT A OOUJM OOl. TNOT. M. T. 
r?i<iiiim I tf 
sow IT J 
MAXADIBRCO. SOUTH BBHD, Ollk 


The Oliver Hotel 
European I^an 
BEST IN THE WEST 

300 Rooms Fireproof 
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED 
CAFES , CIGAR AND NEWS STAND 
BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP 

HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS 
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT Waiter service after 9 o'clock P. M-if desired: 

Auditorium Hotel 
CHICAGO 

On the comer of Michigan Boule­vard and Gxigress Street, in the theatre and business center. Special attention shown students and altmini of Notre Dame. 
JOHN J. CALVCY, MaiHuer 
the NouTe 5)ame Scholastic AfiCepcisemenCs 
No. 126 
The First National Bank 
Soudi Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotd^Building) 
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplusand Profit, $ 145.000 
A. L. HUBBARD, President. 
J. M. STUDEBAKER. JR.. Vice-Prest. 
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier. 
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't Cashier. ­
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES 
WE ISSUB FOREIGN EXCHANGE AT LOWEST MARKET RATES AND LETTERS OF CREDIT PAYABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD ­
TRY OUR TRAVELER'S CHEQUES 
Spalding 


Foot Ball Goods 
BAILS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS^ SHOES, ETC In aJdilion of course— Spalding Equipment fi>r every other Athletic Sport 
SEND FOR CATJCLOGUE 
A.aSPALDING & BROS. 
SIX STATE STKEBT,'cmCA60 

• • •• •• •• : . • 
Mechanics Tools Draughtman's Tools 

G« E* Meyer & Son 
Hardware Merchants 
115 r 117 West JeflFerson Boulevard 
(Opposite Postoffice) , 
Fine Cutlery SOUTH BBNO, IND. 

,^ : i . H 


The Dome 
Official Portrait Photographer 


McDonald 
2XZ Soath Main St c «•. » ^ T ^ Om. PMt ofliM. oOttui owMf ino. 
Ideal Latsndry Company 
"Get the Ideal Habir 
Three coliections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your pack­: ^^ kges atthe . 
Notre Daime News Stand 


Cox Sons i& Vming 
73 Madison Ave., New York 
CAPS AND GOWNS 

Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lotrest Prices. Best Workmanship. 
- Gowns for Judiciary, Ptdpit and Chcrir 
Schuler, Kling^l & Co. 


Qt^ens Ni^tioM Bank 
WhoUaaii Fruit» and Produce 
112-14 W. Jeffeison BlTd.~ 1 South Bend, Ind. 
!^(^~'yr 
• .)'•.. 
'••J ' •:"•'. 
•' ^ ''• ' V 

m'h-r<^-:'^:'-'•••'•• 
m|;^vvv>?v^X^':«:'JrX«;-;C'^«?«^v-^vv^v-^''5-KSf%X^?<?'^^^ 
ccocococcocooooc 


^t M^xv'si CoUeae antr 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
g
E 
« 
I Cm •H 

• CO i ;. Cymnaiium Academy .Church Colleie 
S' 

o Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education ^ 
I® 

College^—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—G)mmi88ioned; Credits accepted by the leading Universities *
£ 

An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and prote'ction of home life. St. Mary's is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care. 
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited 
space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites conespondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take 
pleasure in mailing, an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President. 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY NOTRE DAME P.O.. INDIANA 
P-vvvvvvvvvvv-.vvvvvvvvv'--V'=?=SSSS\SXSSV^^^ 
'a 
I 
/>; 
\ 
I 
\ 
"."' ,'-:'\ 
MI•;-^-^ssssss^^s^aa!:fe^aSvv^^^ H 


Enil)er£tt|* of jl^tre Bwm 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
College ot ^bAH anb ttttttsL Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science. 
College of Science. 
Departments <^ Chemistry, Physics, Bi­
ology, Pharmacy, Agriculture. 
College of jard^ttectnre. Departments <^ Constructiim, Design. 
^IreiNiratDtp MiooL Variant Cooises. 
CoQege of Ctigineenng. Dqnrtmdits of Ci\'il Elngmeenng, Me­chanical Engineering, Ellectrical Engin­eering,. Chemical Elngbeering, Mining Engmeermg, Industrial Engbeering. 
Cidlege of lotD. 
College of :f ine iSrttf. 
D^Mutments of Artistic Drawing, Paint­
bg. Cartooning, Instrumental Music, 
I
Vocal Music.' 
{ 
V 
V 
V 
^tCMuntlNl. 
For Young Boys. 
J 
It 

Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by die press and by the public ; 
as a college whose woric is of die same grade as diat of the most highly endowed 
coU^es or the best state imivorataes. Its atmospheie b^ stron^y Catholic and no 
young man who has evor attmded die University <^ Nqtie Dame can escape its i 
influence in after life. ­
i 

The discqJine is pattfnal, and aims at givingyoungmoi die fullest liberty con-, sistant with earnest stud^ and manly Christian character. Roc»ns at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on af>plicati(»L 
I 

Address: 
THE REGISTRAR 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
c­Ei-^SSSSSSSSSS>>SSSSVV'>vvvvvvvvvvvv^ E3 
•-^'r^^mm^^:­



