





ovnemdnobastic 
DISCEQUASISEMPER-VICTVRVS VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS 
Vol. LVI. FOOTBALL NUMBER No. 10 
THE SEASON'S REVIEW. 
JAMES P. COYLE. 

T hasn't happened—^the 1922 panic in the gridiron ranks of the Gold and Blue so freely predicted at the end of last year's season by the second-hand seers and singers of pigskin sagas the country over, The star-spangled achievements of the peer­less Rockne and his stellar squad of 1922 schedule of ten games which demanded twa . invasions of the East, a march to Georgia, and a trip to Nebraska in addition to those contests engaged in at home and on foreign fields nearby; games, every one of which  promised a stern taxing of our best gridiron  strength—^it was truly an hour of trial and  ebbing hopes; it did look as if Notre Dame  was due to swallow some of the medicine"  which had been prescribed in such generous  quantities by the all too numerous "Calamity 
have turned the laugh on doubt. Sporting critics gen­erally are re-mark­ing Notre Dame val­ues, are estimating again in terms of certainty, where a few months ago they were fumbling in speculative futures. 
It was a far cry from Icarus to Cap-roni—from the bush-man's telegraph to wireless, but intelli­
I 

THE SCHEDULE. Sept. 30—Notre Dame-46; Kalamazoo 0. 
I 

Oct. 7—Notre Dame 26; St. Louis U. 0. Oct. 14—Notre Dame 20; Purdue 0. 
Oct. 21—Notre Dame 34; DePauw 7. 
Oct. 28—Notre Dame 13; Georgia Tech 3 
Nov. 4—Notre Dame 27; Indiana 0. 
Nov, 11—Notre Dame, 0; Army 0. 
Nov. 18—Notre Dame 31; Butler 3. Nov. 25—Notre Dame 19; Carnegie Tech 0, Nov. 30—Notre Dame 6; Nebraska 14. 
I 
Janes  and  Johns."  
The thought of com­ 
pleting the  schedule  
without  one  defeat,  
yes without two de­ 
feats,  wa s  enter­ 
tained by few.  
Behind the failure?  
at  Lincoln  lies  a  
great nobility.  The'  
11 i I  team finds itself rich^ er for the discipline of defeat. There is no disgrace in losing; the disgrace is not  
trying. Who can say  


gence covered the distance. Persistence, coupled with ingenuity, finally feathered the wings that nature denied our kind, and de­veloped a talking spark to outreach the thunders. K. K. Rockne is the latest to prove that nothing can long resist full-flung determination. Phoenix-like, he has risen from the ashes of his last year's post-season disappointments, and from barren begin­nings has brought an inexperienced, but dog­ged and pertinacious handful of Sophomores to an unchallenged position in the world of football—and all this to the deafehing huzzas of wondering and credulous millions in sportdom. 
The skies did look cloudy for a while at the outset of the 1922 season. Facing a  that the Irish did not try? Facing a sea­ soned team of brawny veterans, outweighed  many pounds to the man, wearied by the  strain of a strenuous season,—a fighting  team of striplings went down to defeat, re­ sisting gamely the slashing onslaughts of an  older, stronger and—^yes—better team. And  so the tumult and the shouting die. It has  been a good year. Carberry, Castner, De­ gree, Thomas, Oberst and Desch are lay­ ing away their moleskins, are bidding the  chalk-lines cm revoir,—and we applaud these  departing gentlemen who have bequeathed  an estate of fighting loyalty. We can't esti­ mate the resources of the future. But in 
 1923 we shall again have Rockne and sound­ er prospects than ever before. 
'Sfie Noure 5ame Scholascie 
nmi;n.v;iiv;n^.;oi;iiu.nun.unv;itU-iiUiiuii^./iVUA<.;ii.u^^^ 

V= r ' i!?n^^7?^^rSt!f%Tli^§!^i£a2^^ ffS^ yff^5iiStJgBgIS?S?!^iSiMIiSSguSi^I^i^ti^^ I 
lsfi& Nocre 5ame Scholagric 
ROCKNE. 

Every Saturday afternoon for two full months, several thousand students have held their breaths for the space of about two hours, generally between two-thirty and four-thirty o'clock. But at every four-thiii;y, except the last one which happened to be on Thursday, there was a great sigh of relief, followed immediately by unprecedented 
•cheering,
 all the more prolonged and sten­torian because of the previous suspense. At the beginning of the season, not even the most sanguine would have dared to hope for such a happy consummation, as they glanced <iown the long list of the country's top-notch athletic schools and strove to realize that JSTotre Dame, shorn of all but fight and Eockne, was to be pitted against them. Now we all look back and declare that fight and liockne is all that Notre Dame need ever possess to bring her through.. We had taken the fight for granted because that is a tra­

•dition
 at Notre Dariie, but we were not quite .so sure that there ever, was a coach alive who would be able to perform athletic mir­acles. If there was, we had him, but we were not quite so sure that there was. Now we are inclined to think that Rockne, if he decided to try, could play Harvard by him­self. At least it is ^not unthinkable to put anything past the accomplishment of one who made three famous football teams out of several seniors and juniors and a great many sophomores. It has not been done before, and will never be done again unless, of course, Rockne will have to do it. At any event, at another" univei'sity three times as large as ours, there is a coach that had the same opportunity as did our coach, and his team was beaten by one that we swamped. 


Rockne's Notre Dame connections extend over a period of ten years. This decade, coupled with a half dozen years previous to it, has marked the most brilliant span in Notre Dame football history. During the three years when Rock played end on the team not one game was lost, while victories were scored over such teams- as Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania State and West •P9int (35-13). Two of the very greatest teams that have represented our university' on the afield were the nationally famous 1921 team^ coached by 
Rock, and the 1913 team which was cap­tained by him. It was with this latter team, that he and Dorais introduced the perfected forward pass to the country, a style of game-that has contributed much to his fame, and. as equally much to the grey hair of a mul­titude of rival mentors. 
Characteristic of the man at that time, of course, was a certain genuine modesty coupled with a really studious disposition. Some person attached to this institution at present would marvel, indeed, if they looked into the grades which their hero made in silence during his college days, or found out how able an instructor in chemistry he was to become later on. Virtually track-coach during his Senior year and doing the im­possible by beating his own record in the pole-vault by a good foot, Rockne was no less active in Reactions. 
Iromediately after having.served his full three years in the moleskins, Rockne was made assistant coach under Jesse Harper, and when that renowned mentor retired to his ranch somewhere out west, Rocke took full control. He has undoubtedly the most enviable record of any of the younger coaches in the land. In five seasons, teams built up by him have lost but three games, two of which were much more like victories than defeats, if yardage and first downs count for anything. During those same five seasons Notre Dame has registered forty-two victories, victories which mean some­thing, because Rockne invariably frames dif­ficult schedules for his team. 
If, heretofore, there was any doubt in any­one's mind about Rock's super-ability, little room is left now for it, when, facing the hardest schedule in our gridiron history, with the poorest prospects we have had for many a year, Knute literally created a ma­chine which has been the talk of fandom from coast to coast. Of course, a great meed of praise and credit is due to Notre Dame fight and the Notre Dame men who went through this season's mill, but we all admit that Notre Dame could not have Rockmen Y\rithout Rockne. We believe that, while they are picking their Ail-Americans, the critics might as well open up a new position on their mythical eleven and choose our own Knute K. Rockne for its All-American coach. 
'^ e Noure ^m e Seholasck 
NOW THAT IT'S OVER. FRANK WALLACE. CANTO 1. THE INFERNO OF 1922. 
Ajrgwnent. 

The Spirit of Notre Dame football, having lost his way in a gloomy forest and being hindered by certain wild beasts from ascend­ing a mountain, is met by Rockne, who un­dertakes the task of leading him from the forest. The Spirit follows the coach. 
In the midway of this, our mortal life, 
I found me in a gloomy wood, astray, 
Gone from the path direct: and e'en to tell 
It were no easy task, how savage wild 

That forest, how robust and rough its growth. 
Which to remember only, my dismay, 
Renews in bitterness not far from death. 
Yet to discourse of what there good befell 
All else will I relate discover'd there. 
How first I entered it my memory well 

Recalls: How graduation took from me Most valiant men; and that dire tempter of 
The college man hooked others. So I found 
My senses down and victory's path bereft. 
I journey'd on over that lonely steep 

The hinder foot grew firmed. Scarce the ascent 
Began, when, lo! A panther, nimble light 

With yellow jacket screaming: "Gawgia Tech!" 
To check my onward going; that oft-times. 
With purpose to retrace my steps I turned. 
And by new dread succeeded when in view 
An army mule came braying as he strode 
With his head held aloft and hunger mad 

That e'en the air was fear-struck. At his heels. 
An elephant, who in his leanness seemed 
Full of all wants, and loving Irish corn 

A Cornhusker who many fields had stripped 
Of victory's corn ere now. So haunted by 
These fell beasts growling, anguishedly 
I fell, my ken discerned the form of one 

Whose voice seemed strong in constant use of 
speech. 

When him in that great desert I espied, "Have mercy on me," cried I out aloud. He answered, then: "At Notre Dame my son We go out and crack 'em! We're not licked Though others here have died. Snap into it." Then I: "Thou are that Rockne, that well­
spring From which such copious floods of eloquence Have issued? And such fame amassed? O grave Where is thy sting? "Oh death! Thy victory?" 
#• 
DEGREE. 
STANCE. 

J I% 
is 
LAYDEN. 
STUHLDREHER. 

'^e Nocre5ameScholascic 
THE KEST OF THE CANTOS. 

An increasingly attentive public had turned toward Notre Dame in other years because of the glory of its football achieve­ments and the brilliant products of the grid­iron who sprang from this atmosphere as certain plants grow best in certain soils. When this season began interest was more than ever keen because of the lack of what excited that attention in other years—bril­liant football men. 
Knute Rockne remained as a master coach. Paul Castner lingered as the potentially great nucleus of another team. Capt. Car-berry, Cotton, Degree, Thomas, Brown, Mayl, Maher, Bergman and Flynn were the remnant of the really great eleven of the previous year—an eleven which had, with the exception of Castner and Thomas, dis­appeared in its entirety. 
Whoever thought football at all, found in­clination to wonder whether this unusual coach and his famous school could create an­other troop of gridiron wonders. 
The season has ended. Coach Rockne is rated among the three great coaches of the year—and a frank estimate of the-thoughts of the football public might strip the car­riage of two. Notre Dame rode the top wave of enthusiastic and wondering admiration until late in the season, when Army tied us and Nebraska won from us. The momen­tary loss of prestige suffered upon the occas­ion of each game has more than returned in the backwash which brought a realization of the great odds under which Rockne and the team worked on. 
More continuous ill fortune than has vis­ited the last ten Notre Dame teams visited this group of boys until the squad with which Coach Rockne faced Nebraska in­cluded only Frank Thomas and Eddie De­gree of previous years. Cotton, Capt. Car­beiy and Brown saw some service during the game but ail were recovering from in­juries. The two gi'eat stars of the team— one the best fullback in America, and the other a possible all-American tackle had he not been injured early in the season, were kept out of the lineup. 
The real achievement of the season was not the victory over Georgia Tech, the moral decision over the Army and a sensational second-half comeback which all but com­pleted what would have been the greatest victory of the decade; it was the spirit with which Rockne's boys met each new obstacle. Be they Swedes, Italians, German or Irish in descent, they are as worthy of the name of Fighting Irish as any group of men who ever bore the title. They were called upon to face great physical odds, to meet psycho­logical disadvantages and to combat demor­alizing influences, but they went out and gave each situation all that they had—and no man can do more. Their simple motto was the phrase of Coach Rockne: 
I S 
VERGERA REAGAN FLINN DESCH 
9
I 

•iliii -11 -~ r r " r ~ " ~ ~ "—' ~ — "———"—~—~—————————"*—•••••^—°-^— 
^7­

'^ e Notre ^ame Schdascic 
"Not men willing to die gamely but men fighting to live." 
This group will bear brilliant testimony for Notre Dame and themselves in the two years just ahead. A backfield already bril­liant, two ends and a center who seem on the threshold of the bright lights, guards and tackles awaiting only development—^the group of sophoirores who plaj^ed life-saver to Coach Eockne and Notre Dame in their most tlii'eatening hour, seem destined to he recognized as one of the really great com-V>inations in the history of the school. 
Paul Castner, sailing towards a probable ail-American selection, played the most con­sistent and versatile football shown at Notre Dame in the last five years with the excep­tion of George Gipp—and there were some who considered that the brilliant Paul might have seriously rivalled Gipp if his career had run an equal length. Tom Lieb, the other strong possibility for national honors, was cut down in the third game of the season. Capt. Carberry, after a strong beginning during which he displayed the defensive ability for which he has been noted, was in­jured at Georgia Tech and the hurt slowed him up until the season ended. Ed Degree was out for two weeks with a torn shoulder, Fod Cotton played his final two games with a painfully injured side, Kentucky Oberst was affected by battered ribs throughout the year, Red Maher broke a hand in the second game and did not return until six weeks later. Gus Desch went out on the second play of the season and, after a futile try five weeks later, was compelled to abandon the game. 
Rating the brilliant sophomores is difficult, happily, because their ability seemed so 
.nearly equal. In the backfield, Don Miller jumped to an immediate claim on right half, a position which he held throughout the year and where he played always consistent and sometimes brilliant football. Harry Stuhl­dreher stepped ahead at quarterback and played the greater part of the big games al­though Thomas started every contest and played good ball all season. Stuhldreher en­ters more into the actual play than any Notre Dame quarterback of recent years. He throws passes and receives them in addition to performing the conventional duties and exercising fine judgment. No better bundle of football, for his poundage, has ever been at Notre Dame. 
Elmer Layden was the beautifully consist­ent jewel. In early season, he played a sec­ond string halfback to Jimmie Crowley and delivered so steadily that Coach Rockne used him at left half throughout most of the Army game where Elmer responded with his best performance of the year. When Cast­ner was injured, Layden went to fullback where his triple threat, ability to punch a line and his unusual speed promise to aid him in developing into the successor of Gipp, Mohardt and Castner. 

FLYNN BERGMAN OBERST KISER 
J 


'Sfie Noure &ame Schdascic 
Jimmy Crowley—a mystery. By playing 

sensational football at Purdue, Crowley 
walked past Layden and Bergman in the 
fight for left half. The next week against 
DePauw he rose to greater heights—and 
then played ordinary ball until late season 
when he approached his eaily season form in 
the games with Butler, Carnegie and Ne-. 
braska. Crowley has more instinctive abili­
ty, seemingly, than any of his running 
mates. The development of this quartet of 
brilliant backs during the next two years 
will furnish an interesting study. 
Doc Connell played a steady game at right half in the shock backfield. Bill Cerney and Bernie Livergood divided the second string-fullback job during the season and Dutch Bergman played consisted ball. Mike Kane .narrowly missed a monogram and showed the best form of his career. Rex Enright, a third string fullback, and Les Logan at quarterback, showed creditable games when 
called upon. 
After Tom Lieb broke his leg at Purdue, the burden of the line work fell upon Fod Cotton and Ed Degree—and the two veter­ans came through with an ability that has been recognized in the selection of honor­ary teams. Until Nebraska was met, no team had made serious gains through the Notre Dame line—^and the moral support and strong bodies of these two boys who completed their football careers this year, has been mainly responsible. Harvey pjrown played his same fighting game and was a recognized star, despite his lack" of pounciage, until the bones of his elbow were dislocated at the Army scrap and he went out for the rest of the year with the excep­tion of a handicapped stay against Nebraska where he battled the giant Weller, who out-v\^eighed Harvey 65 pounds but never out­fought him for a minute. 
Gene Oberst, who rose from a flock of sub­stitutes to fill Tom Lieb's tackle, improved steadily as the year progTessed and received wann praise from Coach Rockne following the Nebraska game. George Vergara won the right end job early and promises to de­velop into a mechanically perfect player next season. Gene Mayl relieved Vergara at end in every game. Paul McNulty, who became regular left end after Capt. Carberry was hurt, is regarded very highly by his team­mates who expect him to become the next of the great Notre Dame ends. Chuck Collins is another promising end who relieved McNulty. Hunsinger, Tim Murphy, Feltes and Cook completed the string of wing men. 
Gus Stange and Rip Miller, two powerful boys, served throughout the year as second string tackles and each.seems to hold strong possibilities. John Flynn, Milbauer and Roux completed the tackleS^ who finished the year. Weibel replaced Harvey Brown with credit when the latter was hurt. Neil Flinn and Noble Kizer also earned monograms at guard. 
.auaa^lui MBBUU •  -DN^-^UI^—Btl­ -en —^im-^ w^—Ml—mi— ^ tw ^^iw—^ioi "^iM — " •»"  
1  MIXON  LOGAN  WEIBLE  EIESE  
I- 

—• 

-^^­
'^ e Nocre ^ame ^cholascie 
The center position was still undecided when the season closed, Regan, a 165-pound junior, had an edge until mid-season over Walsh, 180-pound sophomore, but at the Army game and until Nebraska, Walsh re­ceived first call. Regan came back strong against Nebraska and both boys seemingly start next year with, an even break. Bill Voss, kept out of the early games -^vith an injured ankle, showed well as the season ended. Joe Harmon, a light sophomore, is another scrappy center who will be heard from before he leaves school. Leo Mixon completed the quintet of centers. 
THE SEASON. 

Kalamazoo came here Sept. 30 in the time-honored opening daj'' contest and returned with the short end of a 46-0 score. Paul Castner ran two kickoffs back 90 and 95 yards for touchdowns and displayed other capabilities. Don Miller, Red Maher and Jimmie Crowley also added glamour to the day. Gus Desch pulled a tendon in the sec­ond play and went out for the year. 
St. Louis came in a drizzly rain to Car­tier field the next week and played the local team to a standstill in the first half during which Castner scored the only touchdown following runs by Crowley and Thomas. In the second half, Don Miller ran through the entire St. Louis team for 94 yards and a touchdown following the kickofF. He added other sensational runs for another touch­down and Stuhldreher punched the line for a fourth marker. Red Maher broke a hand in this game and Eddie Degree received a torn shoulder which kept hun out for three weeks. 
The first real contest of the j^ear was-staged at Lafayette on the following Satur­day where Rockne's boys trimmed Jimmie Phelan's Boilermakers 20-0 with the Notre Dame student body looking on. The game was hard fought and the Irish line took a considerable pounding. Tommy Lieb who played great ball until that time, was clip­ped from behind after the whistle blew, suf­fered a broken leg and by his absence from the game for the rest of the year may have made possible the Army tie and the Ne­braska defeat. Jimmie Crowley flashed some brilliant running in this contest. Cast­ner performed with his consistent ability and Stuhldreher exhibited for the first time, the passing which was to score points against other teams as the year went on. 
Coach Rockne set to work to find another tackle during the next week and Gene Oberst, the rangy Kentucky 200 pounder, resulted. Castner received a slight injuiy at Purdue and Don Miller was hurt in practice, so the first string backfield was kept out of the De-Pauw game in order to, be in shape for the Georgia Tech game of the next week. The game moved slowly against DePauw until Crowley went in; after which his presence acted as a barometer for the rest of the 




i t-
t 
R. MILLER CROWLEY COUGHLIN COTTON 
I 
i 
'^ e Noure S)ame Scholascie 
squad. He ran 65 and 35 yards for sensa­tional touchdowns and contributed other gains in the 34-10 score which caused his running to be compared to that of Gipp. Cer­ney, at fullback, contributed a 94-yard run for a touchdown from kickoff and Stuhl­dreher and Mayl each added another touch­down. Layden, Bergman, Logan and Liver-good made runs of 25 yards and more. 
The next game with Georgia Tech was the first high mark of the season and the game toward which the young Irish had been pointed. The Yellow Jackets had never been defeated on" their home grounds by a north­ern team and seenied to possess some sort of an unholy edge in their own backyard. Warm weather, stage fright and what not were feared in this game which was recognized OS the season's test tube. 
When the boys came through with a 13-3 by the simple process of stopping Red Bar­ron, the Georgia star, their greatest all-round game of football of the year was dis­played by Rockne's kids that day. Degree and Cotton performed brilliantly on the de­fense and Captain Carberry was in the thick of the battle until he was forced out in the first quarter with a knee injury which handi­capped him for the rest of the year. McNulty, who went in for the captain, made the prettiest tackle of the season on Red Barron in the open field. Vergara played clean ball on the other end. 
Oifensively, the flashy backfield was never better. Castner proved himself the big star of the game by playing effective ball in all departments. Stuhldreher tossed the first touchdown to Castner back of the goal line and then sneaked through for the second marker following flashy runs by Don Miller and Layden. True to form, the team famous for its passing, gave the southerners a les­son in overhead. 
Socially, the trip was an unexpected suc­cess. The boys liked the south and the south liked the boys and asked them to return-Tech will come here next season for the Homecoming game. 
The Indiana contest of the next week, was vv^elcomed by 18,000.homecomers who saw Paul Castner turn in the greatest individual game of the gridiron year. Doing every­thing perfectly, Paul scored three touch­downs, kicked the three tries for points^ made successful drop-kicks from the 45 and 35-yard lines and included one 68-yard punt in his total. Layden and Miller, particularly Miller, gathered the little glory that Castner left after scoring the only 27 points made that day. 
Then followed the'Ai-my and the no score tie which appeared at that time to be the only blot on the record for the year. We outplayed Anny slightly and we advanced the ball on an irresistible series of charges to the three-yard line where a fumble oii second down cost that much-to-be-desired victory. Castner, again, was the star of the 
I 
THOMAS MAYL COLLINS VOSS 
]
I 
'^ e Nocre 6ame Scholascic 
battle, although he was so closely watched by the Army that his more sensational stunts — particularly drop-kicking — were smothered. The big warrior took a beating that day but stood head above the field when the game was concluded. Don Miller and Layden played steady ball offensively but ex­cept on the drive which preceded the fumble —a drive good for 60 yards, the Soldier de­fense was too good. 
Cotton and Degree stood out in the local line, with Brown, until the little warrior was led off with dislocated bones in his elbow. West Point considered the tie a moral vic­tory—^though we were outweighed some 12 pounds to the man—so we'll have to go back 
-to the Polo Grounds next year and settle that little affair. . After which came Butler from our neigh­boring city of Indianapolis. Butler had 
^turned in a 10-7 defeat of Illinois early in the year and after polishing off Wabash, thought themselves capable of challenging Notre Dame in a real battle. There was much talk so we had to rub it in a little with a 32-3 score. Willie Maher ran 88 yards from a kickoff for a touchdown and added other sensational dashes. Crowley returned to his early season form and Don Miller, Layden, Bergman and Stuhldreher contrib­uted flashy runs. 
But the g-ame cost. We lost Paul Castner on the day when he had played the greatest football of his career—greater than at 
Georgia Tech or Army or against Indiana. Castner ran like a shifty halfback that day —^he passed, he received passes and he punted—doing them all well. At the mo­ment when he was approaching the top form to which his tv/o years' preparation had led —just before the important games with Carnegie Tech and Nebraska where he would have had had ample opportunity to capital­ize his magic into an ail-American prize— the mighty football man, the Christian gen­tleman, the inspiration to any college man and credit to any college—was carried from the field with a fractured pelvis—^the victim of a knee delivered after the play had stop­ped and when he was lying in an unprotected position. Let the man who did it decide whether or not it was intentional; another Notre Dame player declares that it appar­ently intentional. Whether or not, a player whose name will never be known out of In­dianapolis, deprived the game of the great­est fullback of the year—and to our mind; at least—a player who would have seriously rivalled George Gipp, if his career had been allowed to go on. 
The squad took Castner's loss in the face of its two approaching games with Carnegie Tech and Nebraska, with the same spirit which had marked their acceptance of the loss of Lieb, Brown, Carberry and Desch. Coach Rockne put it to them as a challenge —and the crew went to Carnegie Tech the r.ext Saturday, played in a snow storm on a 
' ^'~~'^-^''——'«'^—m——m^—m-^m'^m^—m—~m——m^—m^—m^—mi^—m'—'m^—m-—-m^—m^—a^—w^—m^—m^—m^—m^—m^—m^—im--^u—~mi^—m^—m^~m'——m'^—m:^--aJff 
McNULTY BROWN WALSH FELTES 
'^ e Nocre 5ame Schdascic 308 
snowy field on a cold day—and delivered one of the surprising scores of the year, 19-0. Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, Stuhldreher and Bergman ran wild around the Tartan ends while a defensive line composed largely of second string men, Stange and Miller in­cluded, stopped Jimmy Robertson, the high point scorer of the east and prevented Tech f i*om entering the Notre Dame 30-yard zone. 
Out weighed nearly 20 pounds to the man, travel-worn and seriously crippled by injur­ies, but confident nevertheless, the team in­vaded Lincoln, Neb., on the following Thurs­day, Thanksgiving Day, and met the only defeat of the season, 14-6. Nebraska had the better team that day. The Cornhuskers had been pointed for Notre Dame through­out the season and were plainly at the top of their game. They utilized their weight advantage in terrific line plunging early in the first quarter but were stopped on the two foot line by a determined stand of the light Notre Dame line which held for two downs without gain. Degree punted out of danger, seemingly, but the powerful Huskers ran the ball back to the goal and plunged for a touchdown as the second quarter began. The second score came as the period ended and followed a forward pass. 
Notre Dame made but one first down in the first half and was completely outplayed in that part of the game. In the second half, the boys came back with the most sensa­tional passing attack of two seasons. Stuhl­dreher, Layden, Miller, Crowley, Vergara and McNulty performed heroically with" Stuhldreher and Miller, earning the f"|i value of that word. The rally ended with one touchdown and the ball but two yards shy of a second score. When the Notre Dame star had risen, Nebraska seemed pow­erless; but when a break in the game gave. the Cornhuskers the ball on their own two-­yard mark, their early vigor returned and-they resisted further scoring. 
So the game was lost. Outweighed by 20 pounds, travel-stained and crippled by the loss of the two gTeat stars, Castner and Lieb^ the Rockne lightweights came back in the second half with a fighting splash that need­ed only a break or two here and there to swing a victory our way for all of the en^ my superiority. 
But neither the team nor^ the school was greatly downcast by the loss. In full, it was a great season and the new team far. more than fulfilled expectations. In the coming two years, the Army tie and the Nebraska defeat will be forgotten in the achievements of a wonderful group of young athletes. 
At the season's end, monogramsv were awarded to the following men: Capt. Car-berry, McNulty, Collins, Mayl, Vergara,. Lieb, Oberst, Ed Miller, Stange, Cotton, Brown, Degree, Kizer, Flinn, Weibel, Regan, Walsh, Stuhldreher, Thomas^ Layden, Berg­man, Crowley, Maher, Don Miller, Connel, Cerney, Livergood, Castner. 
I i 
MURPHY 1 MAHER KANE LIVERGOOD 
I 
> -<» 
——————————*- ™————————————— 
TSfie Noure fbame Schdasuc 
All-Western Gridiron Honor Men for 1922 
By W. F. Fox, Jr., Assistant Sports Editor Indianapolis News. 

POSITION .  ­  FIRS T  TEAM .  SECON D  TEAM .  THIR D  TEAM .  
Left end  Kirk (Mich.)  Ecklund  (Minn.)  Pulaski  (Wis.)  
Left tackle  Weller (Neb.)  Cotton (N. D.)  Wencke (Neb.)  
Left guard  Degree (N. D.)  McMillen (111.)  Hohfield  (Wis.)  
Center  Blott (Mich.)  Heldt (Iowa)  King (Chicago)  
Eight guard  -Minnick (Iowa)  Bassett  (Neb.)  Pondelik  (Chicago)  
Right tackle....  ..-.Thompson (Iowa)  Below  (Wis.)  Penfield (Northwest.)  
Kight end  . -  Tebell (Wis.)  Kadesky (Iowa)  Goebel (Mich.)  
Quarterback  Uteritz (Mich.)  Dunn (Marquette)  Barr  (Wis.)  
Left  half  Martineau (Minn.)  Williams (Wis.)  Palmer  (Northwest.)  
Eight  half....  .....Noble (Neb.)  Kipke (Mich.)  . .  Worlanan (Ohio S.)  
Fullback  ...Castner  (N. D.)  J. Thomas (Chi.)  Locke  (Iowa)  
HONORABLE  MENTION.  

Ends—Griffin, Kansas; Hanny, Indiana; Irish, Quarterbacks—Eune Clarke, Illinois; Stuhldreher, Wisconsin; McNulty, Notre Dame; Cox, Minnesota. Notre Dame; Parkin, Iowa. Tackles—Aul, Wabash; Lunz, Marquette; Cave, ai. 4^^ ..i. T - HT r. n/r-Kansas- Smith Wisconsin Halfbacks—Shuttleworth, Iowa; McCreery, Mm­Guards-Beriuist, Nebraska; Pixley, Ohio State; nesota; Hartley, Nebraska; Miller, Notre Dame; Hahn, Kansas Aggies. ^l*'^*^' Indiana; Crowley, Notre Dame. Centers—^Nichols, Wisconsin; Claypool, Purdue; Fullbacks—Caijpon, Michigan; Taft, Wisconsin;. Eorhei, Indiana; Walsh, Notre Dame. Wellman, Purdue; Zorn, Chicago. 
Selecting an All-Western honor team for except that Tebell was selected over Eck­the season of 1922 is pretty much like choos­lund of Minnesota because of his splendid ing a present for a plumber's daughter. But defensive work at critical times. Tebell has because the senate of the United States has the slightest of edges on Ecklund, so trivial been too busy with less urgent matters there that Ecklund might be substituted without has been passed no law against sporting any loss to the team. Kirk, the greatest re­writers picking All This and All That foot­ceiver of forward passes playing college foot­ball teams; so the practice continues. ball today, is a first string man on any All 
Some will say the public demands it but team anybody selects. Incidentally he might they are not telling the half of it if they have been used more on a better forward stop there. The public does far more than passing eleven. demand it. The public actually does the Anyone who has seen Weller play won't picking. First they pick it for you, that is argue about his right to honor. Thompson part of the public does this. Then the se­of Iowa drives harder than any other tackle lection is published and the rest of the pub­we have seen this year. Cotton of Notre lic picks it to pieces. Dame and Below of Wisconsin might slip in­
But just the same the public must have its to Thompson's place well enough but this mythical teams rain or shine and we are will­fellow Weller is in a class by himself. ing to wager our next week's wages plus all Blott, Heldt and King and Nichols of Wis­the Yuletide prospects that our All West-consin are about on a par at the center job. cm will defeat any football team in the Blott is a wonderful tackier and was an im­<jountry after thirty minutes* practice. portant factor in stopping Wisconsin when 
In a few instances it may be that some failure to do so would have been disastrous critics would crave a little explanation for for the Wolverines. Heldt is a speedy man some of the first team positions. As for and a reliable passer and Nichols was one of Xirk and Tebell there can be nothing said the seven towers that composed the strongest 
'^ e Noure 5ame Scholasci c 30& 
line in the conference this year, that of the 
Badgers. 
There was no oustanding quarterback^ in 
the west this season. Uteritz revealed 
splendid judgment in directing the Wolver­
ine attack at all times and got the most out 
of a rather ordinary assortment of plays. 
Dunn of Marquette was a factor in elevat­
ing Marquette to a rather high rating and 
against Detroit he flashed repeatedly in open 
field running. He is perhaps the most re­
liable field goal man at his position with 
the exception of Herb Covington of Centre. 
Stuhldreher of Notre Dame is a comer. He 
does everything but kick and although one 
of the smallest men in the west he was cool 
at all times under fire. Barr's experience 
and short passing to a point of perfection 
gave him the call over Rockne's pet field 
boss. 
And from here on in our first team is most 
excellent. Martineau who would rather do 
anything else in the world does everything 
but hurdle the goal posts when on the grid­
iron. He is fast, a good long or short passer, 
a splendid kicker and a streak in the open 
field. Noble of Nebraska weighs 199 pounds 
and is as fast as any small man on any team. 
Give him the ball and he'll get there regard­less of obstacles. He is the hardest man to tackle we have seen this year and a light sec­ondary defense bounces off him like rubber" balls in fierce contact with cement. 
Paul Castner was perhaps the outstanding 
football player in the west. Although de­prived of participation in the last two games Notre Dame had to play Castner established himself in games against Georgia Tech and "Army. He is a unique definition of triple threat. He punts, drop kicks, passes, runs, tackles, directs a defense, kicks off and runs interference to perfection. He is not the type that weakens a team when he is not carrying the ball himself In fact if we were asked to nam.e the best all around football man of the season of 1922 Castner would be 
the man. 
TWELVE MEN, TRIED AND TRUE. 
THE CAPTAIN-JUDGE. 
The Judge and his brothers seem always to be. on the end of things. Two older brothers played end for the University of Iowa a few years back and two j^ounger brothers are now playing end on the high school team at Ames. Nevertheless the Judge, when on the football field, was always in the middle of tilings, rather than on the end, and was continxi­ally messing up the opposing runners. There was no denying the sldU and the certainty with which Carberry stopped opposing runners. 
Off the field he walks like a soldier and on the field he fights like a soldier. Had it not been for the untimely accident which he had in the long memorable game with Georgia Tech, Carberry vvould have left behind him a record stiU more en­viable than that he now enjoys. Judge played only part of the first quarter in the Tech game, but during the few minutes of that period, he lost all his judicial dignity and reserve, and .cracked 'em hard, until the injury to his knee forced him out of the game. Not until the Butler game could the Judge play, but he went after them with the fury of his pent-up energy, and acted no small part in that spectacular fray. -­
We shall not ever forget the Judge. He shall,. rather, be placed on the roster of football captains of Notre Dame and remembered as one of the honored men whose names and prowess are syn­onymous wdth Notre Dame. 
PAUL CASTNER. 
"Shades of Eichenlaub and Salmon!'" quavered the '21 Dome in commenting upon Castner's ability and possibilities for the future. The confidence and prophecy of the Dome writer were not in vain be­cause Cas has won for himself the unstinted praise and love of every Notre Dame man and of many. 
College does not make fools; it merely de­velops them. Great men are easily admired but not eas­ily emulated. 
'^e Nocre 5ame Scholastic 
many men not at Notre Dame. Who of us who 
saw the Tech game will forget his splendid work 
and who of us who had to be content with seeing 
the game at the Senior movies, will forget that 
sweet, fleeting glimpse of his deadly passing? More 
than this, who of us will forget his last appearance 
on Cartier Field, at the Homecoming game, when 
he startled the 22,000 onlookers with his 45-yard 
drop-kicking? And lastly, who of us will forget his 
last spectacular fight at Indianapolis, when an un­
timely injury to his hip cut short his brilliant career 
and spoiled his unusually good chances of getting 
in the graces of Walter Camp. 
Paul may not appear on Camp's coveted honor roll, but all Notre Dame swears to his All-Ameri­can qualities. We look forward to his work as captain and pitcher of our baseball team and poss­ibly to his work as star of the hockey team. And we can say of Paul no more complimentary thing than that he is true blue, a Notre Dame man. 
ED DEGREE. 
If, during any Notre Dame game these last two years, you saw a 65-yard punt, and the punt was right-handed, or rather right-footed, you could be sure that Ed Degree was on the job. Because whenever Castner and his left-footed kicking was not in the fray, Degree's equally good right-footed punting was resorted to. Many the time this last year that we have sat in the stands and chuckled joyfully at the sight of two Notre Dame men non­chalantly punting the ball from end to end of the iield. It seemed to be a necessary part of every :game to awe the opposing teams with this display of kicking prowess. 
Yet chronic. kicker that he was in every game. Degree was yet more powerful in a line weakened "by the loss of Lieb and Cotton. Anecdotes are legion of Ed's spectacular tackles during his three years in the line. Ed's hulking figure and mental alertness mil be sorely missed in just about nine months from now. V/e can rejoice, however, in the comfort of his j)resence behind the bat during the baseball season. 
GUS DESCH. 
The jinx which hung over the team could not have been complete without the injury which de­prived the team, of the speed and the fight which is G^us. Gus was the "first to go the way of martyred football men. The season Avas not yet underway,. the second play of the opening game with Kala­mazoo not yet done, when snap! Gus' anlde bone was slivered and the little flash was through with football. However, Gus and Rock and Notre Dame and the doctors did their.very best and it was not until several weeks after that we gave up hope 
and began our soliloquy, "It might have been ." All New York City read a year ago the laudatory accounts of Desch's performance In the Rutgers game. All New York City, too, might have read this year of a man who has no peer for speed. 
Nevertheless, Gus and Notre Dame are proud of 
the monograms he won for himself in previous years as a flash halfback and world-champion quarter-mile hurdler, and the Monogram Club is justly proud of its president, Augustus Desch. God and the doctors willing, Gus will run again next spring. 
THOMAS LIEB. 
Only two years has Tom played oi\ the varsity eleven and the second season was barely under way when the consistent jinx over the team left Tom 
with a broken leg, received during the first quarter of the Purdue battle. Many a Notre Dame man sat in the stands during that game and, vidth an ache at heart, watched the toiling doctors bind the broken leg, watched Tom laugh bravely as he was being carried off the field, and hoped with a silent prayer that Tom's laugh was laughed in the full knowledge that his leg was not broken and that he would play again. -, 
But an unkind fate forced upon Tom his unwel­come crutches and his chafing inactivity and^ im­potency. The climax of the pathetic experience came that morning at the railroad station when Rockne, with his team on board the train headed for Atlanta, said "Come on, Tom, you're going!" Tom went, crutches, flannel shirt and corduroys and all, and many a proud tear glittered 'in the eyes of the assembled crowd which cheered and marvelled at this proud, deflant display of the undying Notre Dame spirit. 
Such was Tom's last, unwelcome year on the team. 
^ e Nocre 5ame S"cbola8cic 
and such is Tom's envied place in the hearts of his fellowmen. We look forward to more records for him as discus-thrower, and we look backward on more respect for him than is the lot of many a Notre Dame man. 
FKANK THOMAS. 
"The Eat" has been with us three years on the 
varsity squad, the first year as understudy to 
Brandy and Grant. Last year Tommy reached the 
height of his career, being regular quarterback. This 
year he played a more conservative game and 
yielded some of the glory accruing the position of 
quarterback to the undeniable upstart, Stuhl­
dreher. Still Tommy was always in the game, with 
the fight that is necessary to every Notre Dame 
football man, and that is expected of him. 
On the field, Thomas always displayed the reserve 
and the sense of power held in check, that are 
characteristic of him. Every man in the Notre 
Dame stands these last two years has known all 
along that Tommy out on the field was using his 
head, and has been confident that the right play 
at the right time would result from Tommy's wily 
generalship. 
Tommy's ability as an athlete will go unnoticed 
until next spring when his maneuvers around sec­
ond base will bring him once more into the public 
eye. 
FOREEST COTTON. 
Fod's name is a misnomer as regards his playing. 
If the names of players are any indication of their 
playing, Fod's name should have been Stonewall or 
Old Ironsides. Fod is not quite as bulky as tackles 
often run but he vindicated in every game Eockne's 
confidence in light tackles with plenty of speed and 
gray matter. In the beginning of the season Cotton ' 
was handicapped by injuries and got olf to a slow 
start, but when he got going, everyone knew the 
team was the better and the line the stronger for 
his presence. 
Fod served two patient years as reserve lineman, in the days when Shaw and Garvey and Dooley made the going rough for all competitors. His patience was well rewarded this year in the enjoy­ment of a successful year and a place in the an­nals of our great men. He is quiet and reserves all his 'athletic energy for the gridiron. 
LES LOGAN. 
And now comes Eafferty. From the 1921 Dome Les glares at you from the section labelled "Ee­serves," standing arms akimbo and frowning, as if from the interruption. To have been even a re­serve quarterback in those days was a credit, when the well-remembered work of Brandy and Grant and Thomas, kept the light and inexperienced soph from attracting more attention. 
Les kept everlastingly at it with good results. His success in his junior year brought a smile to his picture in the '22 Dome and his increasing success this year has brought a smile to the face of more than one person. Les and his roomie, the Eat, and Stuhlie shared honors at the quarterback position^ And now, vfith. the football season at an end, Eaf­ferty is concentrating upon a more spectacular per­formance on the basketball court. He is sure ta please as much as he did this fall when his work brought smiles of appreciation and admiration to the faces of more people than his Mary Jo. 
JOHN FLYNN. 
Big John is a man of many deeds, and his deeds 
have brought him recognition in many lines, not. 
the least of which is the athletic line, or, more con­
cretely, the football line. John tackled a big job 
when he set his mind on tackling opposing teams 
and competing tackles, but he acquitted himself 
nobly and earned for himself a monogram in foot­
ball as well as in track. John, you see, tackles the 
shot-put also. 
We can be sure of many points in the track 
scoring next spring when big John tosses the pebble 
around the lot. 
NEIL FLINN. 
And now comes the last of the Captains. Neil Flinn is already well-known to Notre Dame as cap­tain of the hockey team and as substitute lineman during the last two seasons. Neil has not risen to the heights of recognition enjoyed by others of the senior football men, but he has shown a consistent application and serious spirit which will undoubt­edly stand him in good stead on the ice-rink—^pro­vided, of course, that this fool Indiana weather gives' us ice this year. 
MICKEY KANE. 
The Fighting Irish were never "fightinger"-than when Mickey introduced his dynamic person into] the battle. A halfback of no mean ability, Kane-: was always welcomed by Notre Dame fans when­ever he stepped onto the playing field. 
When Carberry was referred to as the "Captain of the Captains," Mickey Kane, along with Castner,, and Desch and Flinn, were had in mind. Mickey-is captain of the baseball squad and even now is-putting into the game that fight which has won-, two games and almost won another. 
WILLIAM VOSS. 
Big Bill Voss is another example of a gentleman-determined on nothing short of victory. BiU served' liis freshman varsity year at the pivot position but. was switched to the tackle position by Eockne when: Bill's varsity career began. Here Voss, like Cotton,. found things a bit difficult on account of the compe­tition of veterans, and had to be content with under­studjdng the greats. 
Tliis year Bill went back to his position at center and took turns with Eegan and Walsh. With a good season behind him, Bill now forgets Notre Dame football until the time when he will look back and tell himself, "Them were the days!" 
:308 'Sfie Norm 5>ame Siehdascic 
FLYNN DEMONSTRATED 
A LITTLE OF THAT 
<«i I «iM r%\» ^' 
"FIGHTING IRISH" SPIRIT IN EVERY GAME. 
®i; -'" =S 
?t3-:.:^v' 
. IT IS NOT AN UNUSUAL "SI&HT TO FIND THE StOE-UNES CROWDED WITH THE 'FAIR 0NES''-WATCHINO DON AMD JERRY, TWO OF THE: FAMOUS MILLER BROTHERS. 
AND AFTER THIS PLAN WAS ^^ 
ADOPTED CROWLEY MANAOEO *'' 
TO KEEP AWAKE FOR THE SIGNALS. 
AND EVERYWHERE THAT THOMAS WENT THET GRIP WAS SURE TO GO. 
.^:___ SlGWALS CAME EASIER TO COTTON 
THAN POETRY- BUT IN HIM THE UNE ALWAYS HAD A PUNCH. 


'^e Noure ^me^chdasrie 
THE WAY CASTNER MUST 
HAVE: APPEARED ON THE . 
FIELD TO OUft OPPCiNENTS. ( 
EDDIE DEGREE, ALL-WESTERN GUARD, Also HAS THE 
SUBWAY CHAMPIONSHIP 
INCHESS. PEOPLE SAY 
THAT HE IS ALWAYS 
CAPTURING THE ' 
OTHER FELLOWS 
qOEEN. 
UEB WAS OUT Of hWST OF THE GAMES WITH A BROKEN 
LEG, BUTHEWASAUAWYS OUT TO WATCH PRKTJCE HOPING. THAT 
ROCKNE, GREATEST IRISH CHlEFTAHil IN HISTQRY.WITH A WET HANDKERCHIEF IN EVERY POCKET FDR THE EBIFICATiON OF VISITING SPORT-WRITERS. 
\\s/ » 
CX)«)«))N6flAM^ 
'Sfie Nocre &ame S^cholascic 
THE FACULTY,BOARD OF ATHLETIC CONTROL. 
One agency which has played a note­worthy part in the development of Notre Dame atheltics is not well enough kno^vn about the university to deprive this article of the quality it desires— that of being a scoop. Sometimes dire and sin­ister remarks creep up the corridors in Sorin Hall to the effect that the Klan's most intimate im­itator, th e "Faculty Board" has held anothei; 
meeting. As a matter of 
fact, this Board meets 
disguised in nothing ex­
FATHER IRVING. cepting the aroma of cigars which are captured from Brother Florian's redoubt, and disguising nothing ex­cept the difference between what even the most intellectual of men recognizes as lunch­eon prepared by a chef and what every long suffering citizen of these parts will remem­ber was a luncheon sans eats, sans chef, sans ever5i;hing. But though this article is proud of its Shakespearian touches, pi'oud even of the fact that it was not written by Frank Wal­lace, its subject-matter is the Faculty Board. Let us bear that in mind. When ^the move­ment to make athletics at Notre Dame con­form in every respect mt h the best stan­dards in force at other istitutions was be­gun, the necessity of creating a governing body similar to those in power at leading-state universities was immediately acted up­on. A board was appointed, and after much and very deliberate reflection it drew up a list of laws and by-laws for itself and a list of rules for athletics. It began to inspect the horizon and see that Notre Dame would, in the future, gain a position in sport so high that the gaze of friend and enemy would rest upon her. The decision to keep abreast of the Conference was made resolutely and, in spite of great and harrowing difficulties, adhered to consistently. If today nobody questions the integrity of Notre Dame sport, that result must be attributed to those who 
had foresight enough to found a governing board and give it power. 
Here rests the ultimate decision in all questions of policy; rulings and eligibility. The board has sometimes felt triumphant and sometimes utterly down and out. It has smiled happily during many years when the time came to dispense monograms; it has wept bitter tears when there was necessity to dispense with monogram-Avearers. It has^ in short, been comic and tragic but it has been on the job. The statue of Homer has presided benevolently over its meetings, re­aiinding all of the fact that even Homer nods. It has kept minutes, and it has been kept for hours. It is never penalized for being in motion, and though occasionally it passes something, it is never the ball. 
The present organization of the board is arranged to include both resident members and Alumni members. As a rule meetings are conducted without graduate participa­tion, but several sessions during each year are complete. The Alumni members at pres­ent in service are: Mr. Frank Hering, Mr. Leroy Keach, and Mr. Fred L. Steers. Resi­dent members are: Rev. Thomas Irving, 
C. S. C, Rev. James Quinlan, C. S. C, Rev. Joseph Burke, C. S. C, Rev. John Boland, 
C. S. C, Professor William Benitz, Prof. Wil­liam Farrell, Prof. George Shuster, Prof. Edward Marus, Prof. Daniel Hull. Mr. I^ockne comes in occasionally and looks the place over. He is officially reported, how­ever, to be the root of all the disturbance. 
With these few hasty remarks we have by no means, exhausted everything that could be said about the board—even above the board. But our purpose is simple. We aim merely to introduce it to the public, drawing especial attention to the fact its modesty has thus far prevented it from giving itself mon­ograms. 
AUTUMN EAIN. 
Some huntress has shattered the sky 
With a thin arrow. 
Fall its tinkling fragments 
Like broken bits of blue glass. 
R, H. HUNT. 
'^e Hocve bame Schdasxnc 
WAY BACK WHEN. 
CHARLES MOLZ. The Gold and Blue has always been su­preme in football. Looking back ovei* the Notre Dame record of the past fifteen yeai's, one can find written the stories of great games. They- are stories that contain the names of Miller, Vaughan, Dorais, Rockne, Pliska, Eichenlaub, Rydzewski, Brandy, Gipp and all those other heroes who have carried the pigskin for Notre Dame. It is a glorious history, the record that is written around these names. One cannot read it without pride. Several of these battles have become clas­sics. They are inscribed in the great book which is kept by whatever angel guides the destinies of football. No one who knows gridiron history has forgotten the victory that Notre Dame won on the Plains back in 1913 by smothering the Army 35 to 13. Then there is the famous 11 to 3 defeat that was handed Michigan in 1909 when the Wolver­ines were the pride of Yost and his follow­ers. It is good to look back upon those games and remember the victories of former 
years. 
* 
Michigan looked invincible the November afternoon back in 1909 when the Gold and Blue invaded Ann Arbor. The Yostmen were fresh from a 46 to 0 victory over Syra­cuse the previous Saturday. Michigan news­papers went so far as to ridicule the Notre team for its "crust" in believing it might beat Michigan, even despite its 6 to 0 victory at Pittsburgh a week earlier. The Michigan-Notre Dame encounter was considered by Yost as more or less of a practice game in preparation for tougher battles against Min­nesota and Penn State. 
Notre Dame that year was fortified in the backfield by Pete Vaughan at fullback, Hamilton at quarter, Miller at left half and Ryan at right half. The plunging of Vaughan that afternoon and the ability of Miller to tear off runs for ten, twenty and thirty yards sent tears into the eyes of the 7,000 Michigan fans. The crashing Pete Vaughan could not be stopped. The story of Vaughan and the goal post is not re­peated often at Ann Arbor, but the incident is still remembered. When the game ended, the score stood 11 to 3, and Yost "took off his hat to the Irish." Vaughan and Miller were the stars of the game. Miller gained one-third of the whole Notre Dame yardage that afternoon. Since that November 6th, Michi­gan has played no more "practice games" with Notre Dame, and Yost has never for­given Vaughan and Company for having the "crust" to trim his prodigies of 1909. 
When the team went to West Point for its game of October 30th, 1913, it was play­ing Notre Dame's first game against the Army men. Five thousand people were out to see the game—a large crowd in those days. They went away, at the end of the battle, in astonishment and wonder. The Cadets were smothered under a rain of for­ward passes, 35 to 13. 
"Dorais to Rockne" simimarizes much of the work on the plains in 1913. The fleet quarterback shot 17 passes during the after­noon and 13 of them were completed for a total of 243 yards. The dazzling overhead attack left the Cadets helpless. Time and again, Dorais hurled palsses for thirty yards into the waiting hands of Rockne. During-the second quarter Notre Dame cleared the whole length of the field in four plays for a touchdown. Marching from the fifteen yard line, the team made eight-five yards for the touchdown. Rockne had caught McEwan's kickoff and was downed on the 35 yard line. Dorais then made five yards on a fake end run. A pass from Dorais to Pliska netted a thirty yard gain and another pass Dorais to Rockne gained 35 yards. A third pass for ten yards, Dorais to Rockne, put the ball on the five yard line. Pliska then jammed through the line for a touch­down. 
The first half of this famous game was a smashing affair which ended with a none too comfortable margin .fOr Notre Dame. Dur­ing the second half, however, the team added 21 points to its previous 14. All but one of the touchdowns were the results of a passing attack. In the last period a driving line of­fensive carried the ball down the field for a touchdown. Despite the severeness of the contest, only one substitution was made dur­ing the whole game. Time is said to have 
'^ e Nocre 5ame §choIascie 
• '' '>«"-"^'*'^*X"*"-»'" 
LEST WE 
been taken out just one—^Pliska had to tie his shoe-string. 
******** 
On a field heavy with snow, Washingion and Jefferson was defeated 3 to 0 in 1917. The game was a see-saw contest, but hard fought from first to last. A field goah by Brandy in the third quarter made the only score of the game. During the whole of the game, the Gold and Blue made only three first downs, Bahan at quarter ordering punts on the second and third downs. Passes were few, although W. and J. tried them consist­ently. 
During the first half neither team had an advantage. Wlien the second quarter ended, anyone might have predicted a tie, 0 to 0, although Miller's punting was gaining for Notre Dame. During the third quarter, Notre Dame's opportunity came. After Brandy had signaled for a fair catch of a punt, he was tackled by a W. and J. man. A fifteen-yard penalty brought the ball to the W. and J. 25-yard line. An attempt at an end run failed. Then Brandy kicked a field goal from the 34-yard liiie. 
* * * * * 
Backfield speed beat Nebraska, 20 to 0, on Thanksgiving Day, 1916. "Dutch" Bergman 
,.'-"-. '-••».. ,. .^ 
 FORGET. 
was at his best skirting the Cornhusker ends. From the first moments of plaj'', when Notre Dame paraded down the field for a touch­down, until the. final whistle blew the game was Notre Dame speed—speed—speed. After the first touchdown, Nekraska braced, how­ever, and Notre Dame had only a 6 to 0 ad­vantage at the end of the first half. The third quarter was a punting duel between Degree of Notre Dame and Dobson of Ne­braska. A fumble on the Nebraska 20-yard line started the play for another touchdown. The third touchdowii was made by BergTaan who pulled down a pass from Miller and raced from midfield 55 yards for a touch­down. Throughout the game, Notre Dame backfield speed overcame the strength of the powerful Cornhusker line. 
******** 
The tie game played against the Great Lakes eleven of 1918 is still fresh in the minds of many. The Navy men had already defeated Iowa and Illinois, leaders in the western conference. The lack of seasoned material in 1918, which was S. A. T. C. year, made the issue doubtful for Notre Dame. 
The battle began as a ripping, smashing battle. By a rushing offensive, Notre Dame carried the ball down the field and before 



'^e Nocre ^me Schdascie 31g 
the first quarter was over had put it under the Great Lakes goal post. Gipp's exchange of punts with DriscoU had gained 20 yards. Consistent pounding against the Navy line put the ball within the shadow of the goal, and a few rushes carried it over. In the second period Gipp missed a 40 yard field goal in the midst of see-saw playing. Then, skirting the Notre Dame line, the sailors brought the ball into midfield where they were forced to punt. Once in possession of the ball, Notre Dame marched down the field. As the ball rested within a few yards of the goal posts, the wliistle blew. 
In the third period, the Great Lakes men tied the count, when DriscoU, after a series of whirlwind attacks, crossed the Notre Dame goal line. The remainder of the game was a battle between the contending half­backs. Notre Dame retained the ball most of the time, but could do nothing with its overhead attack. 
CASTNEE. 
When you are gone we'll think of you 
And all the things that you could do. We'll speak of what a man you were, A hero for a worshipper. 
Upon the field and off it, too. 
We'll tell of runs and kicks, it's true, The-games in which you pulled us through. Of hockey's steel-shod mariner, When you are gone. 
But when you've said your last adieu. 
And all this glory's passed from view, One thing of you we'll all aver. The Christian gentleman you were, 
And for this we'll remember you When you are gone. o. ' 
NOTRE DAME. 
N is Nebraska for whom there's in store Such a beating next year as she ne'er got before. 0 is the others we played off their feet. Techs or Purdues or whoever we'd meet. T is the tie that showed that we can Overcome odds twenty pounds to the man. E is for Eockne, reliable Eock; We'd cash our last cent in on his stock. E is for everything our team could do, 
Punt, pass or drop-kick, or smash a line thru. D is the dough put up for our side, A is the Army, and Atlanta's bruised hide. M is the many dreams that we dream. E is for every blamed man on the team! 
s. L. D. 
THE SCHOLASTIC'S CHOICE FOR AN ALL-HALL TEAM. 
POSITION.  NAME.  HALL.  
Left end..  ..Dorschel  Walsh  
Left tackle  Blum  Brownson  
Left guard  Penrod  Day Dodgers  
Center  Hiaecker  (Capt.:Badin  

Right guard ...Scalaro Walsh 
Right tackle ..Ziliak Carroll 
Right end Cook Corby 
Quarterback ...Whalen Walsh 
Left halfback .Mouch Badin 
Right halfback Cody Badin 
Fullback Gorman Badin 
HONORABLE MENTION. 
Linemen: Stanhope (Walsh), Barry (Carroll),. Wrape (Badin), DeHoge (Day Dodgers), Easton (Freshman), Hatton (CarroU, Dando (Walsh). 
Backs: Allnoch. (Badin), Schiffer (CarroU), Coffey (Brownson), MacGregor (Freshman), Evans. (Badin), Barry (Corby). 
In selecting the All-Hall team we have been mindful of many things—a man's har­m.onious team play, his work on the offense and defense contrasted, the effort he has mxade at all times, the nimiber of games in which he has played, etc. On the strength of games played off the campus, there might have been several additional names; but, of course, such games could not be considered. 
We do not claim that our team as picked is infallible. Some will think that the work of certain men has been overlooked, and the value of certain other men overestimated. But every such mythical team is only the re­sult of opinion; and before selecting our eleven we have weighed and searched the opinions of many others. 
There were plenty of good ends, although Dorschal, fast, brainy, and adept at snag­ging passes, was probably the outstanding man at this position. Cook merits a place because he starred on Corby's team, and played an exceptionally fine defensive game. Wrape of Badin deserves mention for his consistently good playing; so also Barry- of Carroll and DeHoge of the Day Dodgers. 
Ziliak stood out prominently at tackle. He was a hard man to get through and a hard man to stop, and was one of Carroirs hard­est fighters. Blum of Brownson played end. 
S14 '^ e Notre (5>ameSchda8cic 
l)ut he was a veritable rock on the defense, and also heavy enough to play a fine tackle, Lando of Walsh would not rate far behind either of these men—in fact, only because Blum's work was somewhat spectacular could he be given preference over Lando. Largely because of the late time at which its team was organized. Freshman Hall did not turn out many exceptional players, but Eason was one of its best. Hatton of Car­roll seldom shone, but, like Buck Shaw, he worked hard and said little. 
Scalaro was the most conspicuous lines­man of the season. He was a guard who hit like a ton of dynamite, and was one big rea­
£ 2.1 XTT 1 1 1-/ • • •u-f.i. T) A-
son for the Walsh line s invincibility. Badm 
will not soon forget that streak of purple in 
the first game. The Day Dodger captain, 
Penrod, was at all times a strong man, both 
on the ofliense and defense. 
Center presented a real problem. Both Haecker and Stanhope.are worthy of the All-Hall team, but Haecker was finally given the position because, although smaller than Stanhope, he was faster, fully as hard a fighter, and a more polished player. The Badin captain was in every play, and was an extremely capable leader. Only because Haecker was a more versatile player than Stanhope is he preferred. 
The quarterback position falls to Walsh's sterling backfield star, Whalen. He was a brainy general, an accurate passer, and could run with the ball as well. He had no rival among the quarterbacks. " 
The remainder of the backfield places goes to Badin, for her men were plainly pre-em­inent. Inter-hall football has seldom brought out better players than Mouch and 
Cody. Mouch could kick, run and pass, and do each one of these things in a finished, im­pressive manner. Cody proved to be a mar­vellous open-field runner, and was almost al­ways good for a substantial gain. Evans of . Badin was only beginning his sensational de­velopment when the season closed, while Brownson's back, Coffey, came very near re­peating his wonderful performance of last year. DeGurse, Walsh captain, would have made a strong bid for an All-Hall position had he not suffered a bad injury early in the season. Other good backs were Barry of 
 Corby, Schiffer of Carroll, and MacGregor 
 of Freshman Hall. 
 Badin offered both possibilities for the job 
 at fullback. Gonnan, a terrific line smasher, 
 and a dependable m.an at all times, had but 
a slight margin over Allnoch, who played 
 much the same style of game as Gorman, and 
 was a splendid kicker. Hauber of Walsh 
 cannot be given mention only because of the 
 short time he played, 
 HARRY M'GUIRE. 
 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL AND FAME.  „„T.^Tn.T.^T 
 JOHN BRENNAN. 
 When the football critics who recently  made their All American selections were in  the third grade or thereabouts, George Car­ tier, Joseph Cusack, Francis Fehr, and  Harry Jewett were forming the first football  team at Notre Dame under the captaincy  of Henry Luhn and the managership of  Brother Paul, C. S. C. That was in 1887,  before the sport was as popular as it is now,  and before the days of stadiums which easily  accommodate the inhabitants of a fair sized  city. These pioneers lost the one game they  had scheduled when Michigan defeated them  by a score of eight to nothing. This was  the beginning of Notre Dame's football his­ tory which has made the prowess of her  teams "a glorious tradition and a source of  never-ending pride." Notre Dame lost to  Michigan consistently until 1909 when the  famous Pete Vaughan, aided and abetted by  Don Hamilton and Harry Miller, broke a goal  post and scored a--touchdown, thereby de­ feating- the Wolverines and furnishing ma­
t 
 terial for speeches at mass meetings in after  years. 
 The football player of early days is gener­ ally supposed to have been an individual  with the physique of a Hercules whose ex­ ploits were confined exclusively to the inter­ vals between the timekeeper's whistle. Notre  Dame men, for some reason or other, do not  conf orni to this rule. They have proved that  the lessons they received on the gridiron  have aided them in gaining success in their  chosen callings. The following list of prom­ inent jurists, business men, clergymen, law­
'^ e Noure ^m e Sehotecic 
yers, journalists, and educators contains but a few of the Notre Dame men who deserve monograms for their accomplishments after leaving school as well as for their feats in athletics. 
Bachman, Charles, 1914; physical director, Uni­
versity of Kansas. Berg-man, Alfred, 1912; business, Peru, Indiana. Bertling, John F., 1907; engineer. South Bend, Indiana. 
.,,^ Callicrate, Dominic, 1904; business, Portland, 
- Oregon. Cartier, George R., 1887; business, Ludington, 
Michigan. Casey, Dan V., 1895; editor, Chicago, Illinois. Collins, Joseph, 1908; business, Jackson, Michigan. Coughlin, Frank, 1921; prosecuting attorney-elect, 
South Bend, Indiana. Crowley, Charles F., 1910; business, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cusack, Joseph E., 1887; Colonel U. S. A., Cal­ifornia. Diebold, C. J., 1899; business, Pittsburg, Penn­
sylvania. Dolan, Samuel, 1909; professor, Corvallis, Orgeon. Donovan, Richard, 1904; business, Chicago, 111. Draper, William, 1904; advertising, Chicago, 
Illinois. Eggeman, John W., 1900; circuit judge,; Allen County, Indiana. Eiciienlaub, Raymond, 1911; insurance, Columbus, Ohio. Fansler, Michael, 1901; lawyer, Logarisport, Indiana. ^-^ Farley, John F., 1898; clergyman, Portland, Oregon. Fehr, Francis, 1887; business, Louisville Ken­tucky. Feeney, Albert, 1911; business, Indianapolis, Indiana. Finegan, Charles T., 1912; sheep raiser, Boise, Idaho. Fleming, Stephen B., 1888; business, Fort "Wayne, Indiana. Fortin, Albert C, 1898; engineer, Portland, Oregon. Funk, Arthur S., 1904; engineer, LaCrosse, Wisconsin. Galen, A. J., 1889; associate judge, supreme court 
of Montana. Hamilton, Donald, 1908; lawyer, Columbus, Ohio. Hering, Frank E., 1896; ex-president Fraternal 
Order of Eagles, South Bend, Indiana. Jewett, Harry M., 1887; president Paige Motor 
Company, Detroit, Michigan. Jones, Keith K., 1913; captain U. S. A., Oklahoma. Kegler, William, 1898; sup't Ohio Division, Big 
Four Railroad. Kuppler, George W., 1898; business, Washington, District of Columbia. . Lathrop, Ralph, 1912; insurance, Peoria, Illinois. Lynch, Edwin J., 1907; lawyer, Toledo, Ohio. 
Macdonald, Angus, 1898; vice president Southern. 
Pacific Railroad, New York. Miller, Harry, 1910; lawyer, Cleveland, Ohio. McNerney, Lawrence, 1903; lawyer, Elgin, Illinois.­Mullen, John I.-, 1896; engineer, lona, Minnesota. Niezer, Charles M., 1897; lawyei'. Fort Wayne^ 
Indiana. O'Mailey, Dominic, 1899; clergyman, Notre Dame,. Indiana. Peil, Edward J., 1901; business, Racine, Wis­consin. ' Pick, John B., 1900; business. West Bend, Wis­consin. ,Quinlan, Michael A., 1892; elerg3rman, Columbia-University, Portland, Oregon. Roclaie, Knute K., 1914; athletic director. Uni­
versity of Notre Dame. Rosenthal, Jacob, 1895; physician, Petoskey, Mich.­Salmon, Louis, 1901; engineer; New York. Schillo, Fred, 1896; railroad official, Texas. 
.^-Sinnott, Roger B., 1893; congressman from-Oregon. Steiner, Arthur, 1902; engineer, Monroe, Michi­gan. Swonk, Francis, 1897; business, Kalamazoo,­Michigan. Wagner, Earl P., 1899; physician. South Bend, Indiana. Walsh, William, 1885; business, Yonkers, New York. 
STANZAS. 
We talk about him all day long, We put him in our rhymes and song". When he's on deck, we're for him strong, 
Stuhldreher. 
He holds the line and kicks the punts. He shows .the football world some-stunts. He makes the big boys look like rimts. 
Degree. 
Here is a theme for mighty bards. He sure knows how to play his cards. He can't make less than seven yards, 
Crowley, 
He grabs a pass or skirts the ends. Through broken fields he deftly wends. The strongest line he butts and wrends. 
Miller. 
From A to Z he knows his game, Kazoo or Tech look all the same. And he'll be missed at Notre Dame, 
Castner. j . N. P;­
, J .. • ^ .---. . .-^.-.^ 
'^ e Noure ^ame Scholascie 
Stars in their courses and twelve stars whose rays • 3ut draw their beauty from Her circled brow Fought in great peace to bring you, through what ways, ^^^^ere you are now. 
There is a company about Her throne Where all her knights are met in heaven's joys. And you, the youngest, ai-e not there alone Among her boys. 
They have laid by the mail of many a field. Out of a thousand climes, a thousand years. To you, newcomex*, welcome place they yield Among your peers. 
You wore her armor, battling in Her name, What though you scarcely knew its august pow^er— She knew Her knight and, fame beyond all fame. Prepared this hour. 
When with a kindness fitting such a Queen She led you off, your tourney but begun,, With scutcheon bright and wreath of laurel green, Youi- spurs quick-won. 
For greaves may mst, and fame is 'but a breath That blows or hot or cold beyond deserving. But Honor lies immortal in this death. Your name preserving. 
Out of what far ways of the boundless skies Fluttered the call that turned your footsteps here ^Vhere over all our purpose shine Her-eyes. Her spirit near. 
O Lady, you have taken of our best To make a playmate for the Seraphim; There on the wide sweet campus of the blest. Be good to him. 

'^e Nocre 5ame Scholascie 
THE RECORD? YES BROTHER! BUT NOT "NOBODY LIED." 
The Tnbune: -announces that he will take his Miss America (speed boat) that holds the world's record of 80,576 miles an hour. 
DON'T YOU THINK SO, DOCTOR JEKYL? ABSOLUTELY, MR. HYDE. 
Truly it is a Mystery That at muster time The Prof, gets Fifty lusty "HERE'S" Out of Thirty Students. 
* -i-'i' 
She: Can you steer with your knees. 
He: No, but I!m long on brakes. 
**= 
SOCIETY NOTE SUGGESTED BY MR. I. M. HUMIDD. 
The home of Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Breth was the scene of a gay festival last Boozeday night when the wealthy Breths announced the engagement of their daughters, Iva and Uva Breth to Tom and Jerry Hennesy. 
The expensive Breth home which is situated on the Griin river was superbly decorated in Irishe Mosse while soft glow of the Noses de Redde cast wavering, supple shadows over the Booshes D'An­hausere that encircled the Cellair. Everything was beautifully lit up. 
The Misses Breth wore gowns a la Scantee which were trimmed in Nose Gays and Crepe de Shame. In their hair they wore feathers of Cock Tail and Crow de Olde, which were smartly offset by ropes Von Pretzles that hung from their shoulders. 
Some of those present were Mr. Hardy Tippler, Miss Virginia Dair, Mr. I. N. Ebreate, Mr. Hart Burne, and H. E. Cuppe. Mr. Cuppe arrived some­what late due to an engagement with Mr. Stein and Mr. Lager regarding a scientific discussion concern­ing a horse's neck. 
After a luncheon De Moyste, the guests played Put and ,Take which was later changed to Give and Take, Mr. Hardy claiming honors due to his Technique de Wallope. The party then took on the aspect of a rum affair and the guests departed with stride a la Wobble. 
EMPRESSIONISTIC VERSE. 
They were sitting on a bench Made of something or other Doing nothing. The air was full of spring Or something or other: And doing nothing. He asked her for a kiss Or something or other And she said Nothing doing. 
SONG HIT SCANDAL. 
Mary says: "That Dardanella was Lovin' Sam at Three O'clock in the Morning Down by the Old Mill Stream, The Vamp. I'm Nobody's Fool and Be­lieve Me She's a Mean Job and Some Sunny Day After I'm Gone He'll want to Hold Me and Kiss Me Again, The Sneak. I Never Knew a Young Man's Fancy to Be True. It's Always Cow Bells." 
*** 
DEFINITIONS. 
Blister: Genus of the sentimentaler sex; form­erly called "Oil Can"; thinks that Psyche is the French champ; says, "This is She," every chance she gets. 
Hip Blister: Veiy expensive disease, but fash­ionable; comes from carrying "it" with you. 
Rodolf: Formerly plain "Rudolph"; the acme of hair oil; constituents of oil are: one part Greezy Nut (or one. "part" in a greasy nut) mixed with a pint of lard, goose grease, axle grease and prune juice, a la gi-eeze; very gi-easy; to be worn with a slippery line. 
Exam: Pronounced by students "Eggszanun'*; anything extremely sad. 
Warped: Applies to the intellect; can be told by their utterances such as, "Has she got a car," or "So I took this one thousand dollars, etc." 
The sun sinks; or does it? Yes it sinks. Steeped in raw purple blood; 
Night comes; vnth a gasp; are not we of the medi­ocrity of rational ken imputable, not grasping the impalpable? We are. Precisely! we are. 
The terrible black of night; sanguine and terrible; black and anguine and terrible; ah, death. 
Soph: Was she really cross-eyed? 
Senior: Well not exactly, but her eyes were pointed as though they had a date with each other about ten feet down the line. KOLARS. 


ais '^ e Noure &ame Scholascie 
Victory engenders enthusiasm. It is the 
easiest thing in the world to cheer a winner 
unless he is defeating a cause dear to us. 
And when the winner is 
WHAT'S IN A bearing our colors, 
CHEER? praise comes too natur­
ally to be attributed to 
patriotism. 
Notre Dame has just completed a success­
ful football season. On any Saturday after­
noon during the fall, loud cheers rolled up 
from the watching crowds on the field or in 
the gym.. Strangers wondered at the volume 
of each j^-ell while newspapers printed admir­
ing comments upon the loyalty of the student 
body. But the praise was deserved. 
We only hope that in. the coming basket­ball, track and baseball seasons the same spirit will flourish. Behind these sports at Notre Dame there is not the solid tradition of success that Marks, Harper and Rockne have woven into football. We often lose, and sometimes anticipate defeat as a matter of course. 
Let us resolve that in the future, win or lose, our enthusiasm will be unmistakably present. May there be no disparagement of the athlete who bungles in basketball, fin­ishes consistently behind in track, or fans the air at a critical moment in a baseball game. He may not be a star, but it is certain that he is a better man in his field than any spec­tator, and better able to represent Notre Dame. 
Loyalty is not a luxury that the prosper­ous winner alone rnay possess. It is a ne­cessity—precious and indispensable, almost the finest thing in the world. And the test of our loyalty is not in victory, but in defeat when the forces of the enemy ride trium­phant over our. banners, and we cannot snatch them up. That test will come—^there can be no escaping it, but when it does may we stand as confident as ever, and show the mettle of men. ENGELS. 
It is always a source of wondering to the outside world that year after year, Rockne produces a team which seems not to have 
suffered  from  the  in­ 
THE SENIOR FOOT­ roads of graduation. The  
BALLERS.  Veason  is  that  Rock's  
teams  are  very  seldom  
one-man teams.  

Be that as it may, one wonders every year, "What of next year? What will we do with­out this man and that?" This year, too, al­though we are confident of the ability of the junior, sophomore and freshman mate­rial available for next year, and although we are dead sure that Rockne can produce a team as good as this year's and perhaps even better than this year's, we cannot but won­der what will happen,-with twelve men of the team unable to come back again to fight for Notre Dame. 
These are twelve men, tried and true, and 
'^e Nocre (borne ^hdasci^ 
they leave Notre Dame with their praises on the lips of the world. Let us here give them our parting tribute! 
The curtain has rung down on the most successful season American football has ever had. The number of people who saw inter­collegiate contests could FOOTBALL POPU- be counted in the hun-LARITY. dreds of thousands. Ev­
ery section of the coun­try had fields and stadiums crowded to their capacities with spectators. Interest in the game was universal. Nothing can be plainer than the confidence which the public has in the wholesomeness of collegiate sports as shown by the continued support given to football. No other sport has the attraction of collegiate football. Baseball, boxing, bas­ket ball, water sports are pushed into the background. The overshadowing interest in the gridiron sport makes them look puny indeed. Colleges and universities have nothing to fear from football prosperity, however, so long as the right standards of sportsmanship are maintained and so long as professionalism- and proselytism are crushed. The future offers nothing but en­couragement. The gridiron is green and smooth, the chalk lines across it are white. 
MOLZ. 
Ascertain amount of class consciousness has crept into the student life of Notre Dame. There are here as in other colleges," 
groups  or cliques.  This  
THE  CAMPUS  is a purely normal thing,  
COMMON.  for it follows that indi­ 
viduals whose tastes and  
philosophies  are  similar  should  adhere  to  

those who believe as they do. But his class association should not become so strong as to prevent a moderate merging of all classes. That is, there should be a general good-fel­lowship existing between every man and his fellow student. 
But in some cases, in fact in too many in­stances, this amity has been displaced by in­tolerance, surliness, and suspicion. It is not malicious but it is none the less harmful. Harmful because it impedes the deep im­
palpable coordination that is the heart of every institution. 
A truth that is at once extenuating and la­mentable is that this class consciousness is not due to any intrinsic ill-will on the part of the students, but to a general misunderstand­ing. Through some unknown cause, suspic­ion has been aroused, and the result has been that each class is wary of all the others. "Helios" are subdued and guarded. "Chips on the shoulder," and criticism are too often in order, and a general attitude of mistrust has appeared on the campus. 
The recent "Hello Week" stunulated a feeling of amiability to some extent, but it did not accomplish what is most needed: A spirit of trust and tolerence. 
Let us try to break up this futile guarded­ness, and attempt to instill into all Notre Dame men a true feeling of friendliness to all fellow students. Put some zest into your next "Hello" and you may find that the other fellow was simply awaiting a chance, to do likewise." KOLARS. 
A wistful feeling grips us as we realize that the football season is over. A vacancy 
halts  our  week.  We have  an  unsatisfied  
longing for those Satur­ 
"THERE's AN END  day  aftemoons  in  the  
TO EVERYTHIG."  gym or on Cartier Field  
cheering the team.  That  

longing will pass perhaps, but it is there now, harsh and unrequited. We may only look pensively at the bleak stands aci'oss the campus as a reminder of recent days, and wait for another year. We shall talk, of course, describing plays and games, discus­sing mythical teams and next yearns sched­ule. But it is hard to break away from the things of the gridiron. Someone will say immediately that they occupy too much of our thought. Untrue, we answer. Football breeds the college spirit. It is the outlet for those energies, whether as spectators or players, that we cannot put into books and lectures. It permits us to relax without shifting our interests from the theater of campus activities. It awakes our sportsman­ship. Devotion to what is wholesome, even when it appears most enthusiastic, is never evil. And so our attention to football merits 
!20 
'Jcfie Nocre &ame ^chdascic 
rio reproach. When football becomes cor­
rupt, then whole-hearted enthusiasm may be 
discouraged. In our present mood, the 
months until we shall hear the familiar 
whistle look far away. But we shall wait. 
The days next fall ^all be worth the waiting. 
MOLZ. 
Everybody's welfare is yours. 
Not all the great battles are bloody. 
A good actor may also be a bad actor. 
Merit will be acclaimed in spite of depre­ciation. 
The stjdes of today are the smiles of to­morrow. 
It is better to be a silent wise man than an eloquent fool. 
It is not the largest bird that sings the sweetest song. 
IMPORTANT SOCIAL ANNOUNCEMENT. 
All admirers of rhytlmi, beauty, harmony and, more precisely, dancing, will take notice that the Saint Mary's Club of Chicago will entertain with a dance on the evening of De­cember twentj^'-first. The scene will be the Opera Club, Chicago. Tickets assuring you of admission into the wonders of this affair can be purchased at the door. All Notre Dame are welcome, we-have been assured, and we hope that some, at least, will help make the evening a success. 
FAMILIAR FOLKS. 
Frank Bloemer, graduate in commerce last year, is with the Continental Car Company, of Louisville, Kentucky. 
*** 
Charlie Bachman, '17, former captain and coach of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station football team, has completed a suc­cessful season as football mentor of the Kansas Aggies. His team lost only one game and that to Nebraska. While he was here last Monday it was announced that he has received an oifer from Alabama to act in the 
capacity of athletic director and football coach, but whether he accepted has not been made known. 
* *•* 
Gerald Ashe, Commerce, '22, visited the University Sunday and Monday. After so­journs in Pittsburgh and Boston he joined the staif of the perishable freight service of the New York Central Lines, with headquar­ters at Toledo. 
:>••** 
Father O'Donnell has already received the Bill Roach Trophy, a handsome ten-inch silver loving cup, which will be the first athletic prize to adorn the Badin recreation room. The cup was donated to the winners of the Inter-hall football championship by Bill Roach, former Notre Dame barber who has recently opened his own shop below "Hullie and Mike's."' 
«i« .*. ^
-*• *;» '*• 
Robert P. Galloway, '22, passed the New York state bar examinations and has opened' law offices in Buffalo. 
Eddie Duggan is putting the knowledge of football which he acquired at Notre Dame in the time of Eichenlaub to good use in de­veloping teams at Franklin College. 
*•* 
Joe Meyers, '16, a fomier baseball and basketball star, who had a try-out with the Cincinnati Reds a few seasons ago, is foot­ball coach at St. Xavier's, Cincinnati. He-reports that he suffered only one stiiiging* defeat this year, when the Navy ran up a score of fifty-five to nothing against his pro­teges. Nothwithstanding the fact that he never played football he turned out a good team and has put the sport on a collegiate 
basis at St. Xavier's. 
* * * 
Pierre Chan-:pion, '22, having decided to-follow in the footsteps of all captains of in­dustry, reported for duty to the Champion Rivet Company, Cleveland, Ohio, to learn the business from the ground up. 
Charles M. Niezer, Fort Wayne, Indiana,, has given up the practise of law to begin his duties as president of the First National Bank of that city. He succeeds Charles H. 

Tofie Nocre ^m e Sieholasric 
WordeiT, who retired because of ill health. Mr. Niezer was head of the law firm of Niezer, McLucas and Reid, one of the most successful and prominent law firms in Indiana. Mr. Niezer is a monogram man, having attended Notre Dame in 1897. He also holds a Master of Arts, degree from Columbia University which he received in 1901. 
Organization of the law firm of Deahl and McCarthy was announced December fourth. The members are Orlo Deahl, a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School, and Edwin J. McCarthy, who graduated from the Notre Dame Law School last year. Mr Deahl will specialize in corporation law while Mr. McCarthy will continue in general practise. Offices are in the J. M. S. Building. 
* * =:= 
On Thanksgiving Day, Miss Edith M. Ro­loff, Oak Park, Illinois, announced her en­gagement to Mr. James H. Brennan, old Notre Dame student, who is now associated with the Illinois Social Hygiene League of Chicago. 
Henry Baujan has finished a successful season at the University of Dayton where he is athletic director. He played right end on the varsity in '14, *15 and '16, was one of the first graduates from the College of Commerce, and after leaving Notre Dame played football with Jim Thorpe's Cleveland Indians. 
In spite of the wave of bigotry that swept over the state of Oregon, Nicholas J. Sin­nott, Notre Dame lawyer, was triumphantly re-elected to Congress from that state. In Nevada, too, a fight was made against Mich­ael A. Diskin on the grounds of his religion, but that also failed of its purpose. 'Mr. Dis­kin was elected attorney general of Nevada. 
Richard Braun, Ch. E., *14, a foi-mer resi­dent of St. Joe Hall and of Manitowoc, Wis­consin, is employed by an engineering con­cern of St. Louis. His particular job is to take charge of the government citric acid plant at Port Arthur, Texas. He recently spent a few hours chatting with his friends on the campus and gave them many inter­
esting sidelight on the activities of the Ku Klux Klan. 
The Detroit Notre Dame Club which was so lively before the war, was reorganized Wednesday night, following a banquet at the Hotel Statler. Fathers Cavanaugh, Bums and McGinn were present, and under such splendid auspices we could not help getting away to a good start. The following officers were elected: 
Honorary President—^Lou P. (Red) 
Salmon. 
President—Raymond J. Kelly. 
Vice-President—James F. O'Brien. 
Secretary—Edward N. Marcus., 
Treasurer—Harry CuUen. 
A resolution was adopted urging Coach 
Rockne to bring the football team to Detroit for a game next season, which was imme­diately communicated to him. 
The alumni and old students in this local­
ity send greetings to Alma Mater. 
UNDER THE DOME. 
"Mike" Sullivan, of Walsh Hall, in charge of the group photography for the 1923 Dome, announces that clubs that do not have their pictures taken within the next few days will have to issue their own annual in which they may insert their faces, because the club section of the Dome is now closing. 
"Preparing a Drawing for the Engraver" was the subject of the first lecture to the 1923 Dome staff, to the journalists, and oth­ers interested, given Tuesday afternoon in the Libraiy. Mr, Olsen, of Olsen and Roth, commercial artists, made the talk. These addresses are intended to be of practical val­ue to those contemplating or interested in publishing. Mr. Olsen spoke about line and screen plates, black and white and color work, electrotyping and photographic work, and gave over the last part of his interesting hour to answering the questions asked him. 
With Jeriy Hagan in the saddle cracking out the rhymed lines, the Dome's 1923-cal­endar, is now well under way. Scouts are sneaking down the hallways in each dormi­tory seeking scandal material. After a con ­
'(cfie Hcfcre 6ame §chdascic 
clave Thursday the men of the brush and pen began their work in illustrating the sing­ing words of the Glendive versifier. 
On Tuesday evening, November twenty-eighth, Car oil "Rec" was the scene of one of the best smokers ever held in that hall. The whole affair w^as one of varied enter­tainment which consisted of speeches, music, boxing', comedy acts, and "eats." Among those w'ho spoke were Father Burke, Father Hugh O'Donnell and the worthy rector^ Father John Devers. 
There were two "leather battles," one a comedy bout between "Duke" Slater a four-footer, and "Movie" Hall, a six footer. The other was a fast and exciting bout between Frankie Kahili and Leslie McDonald. Peter Locova, a tenor of rare ability, featured in a very good act by giving several selections. Joseph Schneider and Lester Clarke were very entertaining with two banjos. The mu­sic, which was very good,- was furnished throughout the evening by Victor Labedz and his Carroll Hall "Big Four." 
The questionnaire fever so noticeable dur­ing the past few weeks has extended to the 
S. A. C, the students' organization. Students and others in many of the classes were in­terviewed for their opinions on the Com­mittee's latest brain-child, a daily paper, and general opinion seemed to be much in favor of this progressive measure. Mayhap we shall soon see the SCHOLASTIC but once a month. 
It has been w^hispered about the campus that the wheels of industry have been heard \vhirring in 228 Sorin, w^here the esteemed Bim O'Donnell and Mr. Martin are busy pro­ducing the greatest student directory of the year. The lack of an adequate directory has been gTeatly felt during the past two years, and the efforts of O'Donnell and Martin should do much to aid suffering humanity. While great secrecy prevails regarding the publication it is thought that it will appear a short time before the Christmas holidays. 
The fact that Mr. Claus' boy, Santa, will soon be doing his-parachute jump down va­
rious and sundry chimneys is brought to our attention by numerous meetings of several organizations which plan on making Notre Dame noticeable in the home town during the Yuletide. Prominent among these or­ganizations are Danny Culhane's Rochester Club and the Metropolitan Club. Culhane and Jim Welch plan on bringing fame to their club by throwing the greatest and most stupendous party Rochester has ever seen. The Metropolitan Club, composed of students from Staten Island, Queen's Island, Ha­waiian Islands, the Bronx, Cape Cod, and the Cape of Good Hope, will charter one of Pullman's best cars for the homeward trip. There have also been rumors regarding a dance at the McAlpin. 
Visitors to the library during the recent weeks have, heard much of wars, rumors of wars, strikes, living wages, Coo Coo Clan, prohibition, and similar things floating through the basement windows and out into the crisp air of winter. Professor Farrell has managed to bring together into verbal combat some hundred or more knights of the silver tongue, during the preliminaries to the Breen Oratorical contest and the tryouts for the debating team. The victors in the jousts have not yet been determined, but will, no doubt, be made knowm at a later date. 
The Scribblers' efforts to learn about writ­ers and writing began last Monday evening in the Library with a program headed by Professor John M. Cooney, head of the de­partment of journalism. Prof. Cooney was critic and speaker, telling personal remin­isences of the lyric poet. Father Tabb, and reading several of the convert priest's short poems from the backs of envelopes and from note sheets, where Father Tabb's worn pens had written them. Prof. Cooney gave his listeners an intimate and interesting picture of the kindly teacher and writer. A paper on "Utopian U," by Harry A. McGuire, the club's "president, one on James Matthew Barrie, by Harry W. Flannery, and poems by Vincent David Engels and the younger Lightfoot, were read after the alarm clock had rung for Prof. Cooney's period of tale telling. Father Cavanaugh is scheduled as the next speaker. HAGAN. 


'icfie Noure ^me Schdasrie 32a 
A FEW REVIEWS. VARIOUS THINGS. 
POETRY TO SUIT. Many good ijoets have come out of Notre Dame— Egan, Stoddard, Stace, Speer Strahan are some of them—^but none so real, so charming and so regally inspired as Father O'Donnell. We all remem.ber the first volume with its colourful title, "The Dead Mu­sician"; and sooner or later all of us will be hap­py familiars of the new book, "Cloister and Other Poems." Here is verse beautiful not only with the poet's own moods, but also, aboundingly, with the truest affections of Notre Dame. You will find here once more, the high organ and the vaulted chapel and the mystical Brother for whom music was the "host of moving pageantry"; "Indian Lake" and "Harvest-Fields"; but best of all perhaps will be "Cloister": 
"Eai-th beauteous and bare to lie ui)on Lit by the little candle of the sun. 
"The wind sone daily sweciuna: like a broom-— For these vast hearts it was a narrow room. 
Of the many excellent lyrics, familiar or perfectly new, it need only be said that each has its individ­ual charm and revelation, and needs only the niche in a sympathetic reader's heart. Tastes may battle over some things, of course, but all tastes will be satisfied by the book as a whole. It could only have been written by a priest with a delicate realization of his own emotional life and its values. Here American literature has been singularly fortunate; Father Tabb smiling whimsically on his way from the tabernacle must have beckoned our own poet to follow him. They belong together, different though they are, and each is a master of song. We predict for "Cloister and Other Poems" an abiding success among those for whom poetry is the most queenly of all arts. 
Cloister and Other Poems. By Charles L. O'Don­nell, C. S. C. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.00. 
H. G. Wells reduced his "Outline of History" from two volumes to one. Now he has reduced it still further until he has "A Short History of the World" in 400 pages of large type. We are one of those who believe that the less Wells puts into his history the better it will be. Therefore, we shall wait until he boils it down to a vest pocket edition before buy­ing. 
Appearing for the first time this month is the Literary Digest Interyiational Book Revietv, a maga­zine devoted to the book world, sponsored by the Funk and Wagnalls company. Clifford Smyth, un­til recently editor of the New York Times book re­view section, is the editor. The aim of the new magazine is to cover the field of literary activities riot only in the United. States but in foreign coun­triies. Contributors to the first number include among others Sinclair Lewis, Gertrude Atherton, Maurice Francis Egan, Brander Matthews, Amy Lowell, and Christopher Morley. 
A new burlesque serial, "The Parody Outline of Literature," begins in the Christmas number of the Bookman. The serial will be similar to "The Par­ody Outline of History." Various authors will re­tell old stories, given modem settings, in their own. styles. Marc Connelly and George Kauffman have written the first chapter, a parody on Dickens' Christmas Carol in the style of their plays "Dulcy" and "To the Ladies." In later chapters, Will Irwin will rewrite "Cinderella," Ring Lardner will make a modern "Enoch Arden," and so on. 
A SINGER'S TRUE STORY. Father Martin J. Scott, S. J., has written a very appealing little story in "Mother Machree." The simple narrative of a boy who turned out to have a remarkable voice, a knowledge of how to use it, and a rare spiritual sweetness of character will fas­cinate all who are still healthy enough to enjoy simple things. Of course. Father Scott, who has written so many successful manuals of instruction and so many exhortations, cannot manage altogether to keep away from sermonizing. It would, how­ever, be quite unfair to yourself to permit this gen­erous little fault to keep you away from as pleas­ing a true story as you are apt to meet this year. Here is also just the book for the younger brother with the "grown-up" feeling. Mother Machree. Rev. Martin J. Scott. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.75. 
CHURCH UNITY. Very frequently during the present era of man's difiicult adjustment of himself to the society arotmd him, the cry of the unity among the Christian churches makes itself heard. Ut omnes umim sint! is of course the cherished motto of every apostle. But Church-Unity has not always meant exactly this, but rather, "Let one be all—^let a name stand for the unification of institutions totally different in purpose and character." To the Rev. Edmund S. Middleton, D. D., an Anglican rector, we are in­debted for a new book which very candidly asserts that any proposal for unity cannot be sound, not only without Rome's participation, but also without Rome's leadership. For a writer in the author's position this is a sufficiently daring thesis, and one which, up to a certain point, merits the careful at­tention of every Catholic interested in the religious 
•welfare of his time. It is a dignified and well-con­structed book, markedly sincere and sane in tone. One misses the absence of a transcendent style, like Newman's to carry the thought across the wary gates of the public mind, but such styles, after all, are rare enough. 
Unity and Rome. By Rev. Edmund S. Middleton, 
D. D. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.75. 
'^ e Norre bame Schdascie 
THE GENTLEMEN CORNHUSKERS. 
J. W. CORBETT. The annual game mtli Nebraska is al­ways a pleasurable event. The Thanks­giving visit this year was no exception. The Notre Dame team and its followers were cor­dially received and cordially treated during their stay in Lincoln. On the night before ^-the game they were introduced to the stu­dent body of Nebraska who massed around the N. D. headquaiters at the Lincoln hotel in a demonstration, rivaling our own Home­coming celebration. There was a decided at­mosphere of good-fellowship in the Western air, spiced with a tang of college rivalry. The worthy "Judge" introduced his boys to the receptive mob; and "Rock," answering the unmuffled demand of the students, appeared and snapped out a little encouragement to 
the Nebraskans, which was received with good-natured raillerj^ After a big cheer for 
N. D. the meeting broke up, and our boys scattered to see the sights of the capital city. The team turned in at ten o'clock sharp to be safely tucked away by the little general. 
Thanksgiving day, the day of the game, was clear and moderate in spite of ominous forecasts of impending rain or snow. There was a forty-five mile an hour wind racing-down the field, giving advantage to the de­fenders of the West goal (which it did). The stands were crowded to overflow—it was the largest crowd that ever jammed into Ne­braska field, estimated at 16,000. Of course the great majority of the rooters waved ban­ners of Red and White, but the Gold and Blue was well represented. The N. D. side­line had a wealth of "official staff photogra­phers," "trainers," "reporters," even "a doc­tor," all of whom were staunch supporters of the Irish. 
The game was a battle from the first kick­off to the last play. The Irish were on the defense in the first half, and they showed their true mettle when they met that ter­rific onslaught. The Cornhuskers were big, extremely big, and they wanted to win that game. How that N. D. line did fight! How they, rose up and stopped those Nebraskan line crashers within a foot of the goal line. 
That evening the Catholic Club of the uni­versity gave a turkey banquet for both 
teams, and for as many others as the dining hall allowed. The turkey was good, the speeches were good and the singing was good. The harmony was ably furnished by a mixed quartet, They sang the Victory March and other pieces of almost equal merit. Continued friendship between the two schools was urged by all the speakers. An old N. D. alumnus gave a stirring talk, which he ended by saying that, "After all, Rockne is the best coach in the country, the Notre Dame team is the best team in the country, and Notre Dame is the best school in the country." 
We entrained that night and left Lincoln early the next morning. We arrived home satisfied with our coach, satisfied with our team, and satisfied with our school; but just a little perplexed over the final score of the game. However, a Notre Dame team may finish with the short end of the score but it is never "licked." So we give fair warning —"Gentlemen of Nebraska, watch out for next year!" 
Pittsburgh Chronicle-Telegraph. 
Head Coach Wally Steffen and not his assistant. Bob Wadell, together with Brumbaugh and Jimmy Robertson, saw Notre Dame play the strong Butler College team in Indianapolis Saturday and Steffen had plenty to say about the South Bend team in a talk to his squad yesterday. He predicts the hard­est kind of a battle here Saturday, and declares that the Skibos must be up to the forai they showed against Wash.-Jeff, in order to win. 
"I watched the Notre Dame plays carefully,'' commented Steffen, "their plays were only ordinary, a running attack and forward passes from about the same formations we use around Pittsburgh, but the way their men handled themselves, the way they tackled, followed the ball and executed these plays was a caution. I have rarely seen such great team work. They simply could not be stopped. 
"When the Butler game opened Notre Dame sent in their second team, and they looked mighty good. I commented upon the work of two of their back field players and told Brumbaugh and Robertson to prepare for them next Saturday. Imagine my sur­prise when during the second period Rockne, the Notre Dame coach, sent in an entire new team. It was his first string and then how the fur did fly. Butler College was simply rushed off their feet." 
Tsfie Noure ^m e Schdascic 
•' •• " • •• " " " " " " " " "" •• " " ••" " " 
• • .1 .1 •• .1 iJl .« H .« •» 
LIGHTNING AGAINST THE MOUNTAIN. 
HAKRY A. M'GUIRE. 
Suffering its third defeat in five years, and* its only one during the 1922 season, Notre Dame fell before Nebraska at Lincoln on Thanksgiving day, 14 to 6. The Cornhuskers won because.they outweighed us almost 20 
.pounds to the man, and because they faced an inexperienced team. Our line was almost helpless before the heavy, powerful Ne­braska forwards, who opened holes through which the backs could plow for relentlessly consistent gains. The Nebraskans used a simple steam roller attack, which could not be stopped merely because our men were too light. There were very few Cornhusker plays which were not evident to our players from the moment the ball was snapped. 
Notre Dame may have been outplayed, but there was not an instant at which she was outfought. Irish scrap prevented a score in the first quarter, when the Cornhuskers crashed to within one foot of our goal, from which they were thrown back in a glorious rally. 
In the second period Nebraska carried the ball over the line through constant line smashing, and later sprang a surprise pass. 
,that netted another score." In the third quar­ter the Fighting Irish opened up a bewilder­ing pass attack that resulted in a touchdown. From that time to the end of the game the Blue and Gold spirit dominated the field. At the start of the last period we rushed the ball to Nebraska's three-yard line, where weight told against us again and we lost the ball. 
Although the backfield lacked its mainstay, Castner, it was nevertheless a revelation. Obviously too light to gain much through a light line, it resorted frequently to foi-ward passes, and completed eight out of 14, for a total of 110 yards. Stuhldreher, Don Miller and Layden were our most versatile stars, but Crowley and Bergman also played won­derful football. The sophomore bunch that made 235 yards from scrimmage to Ne­braska's 290, constitutes a backfield of which Notre Dame may well be proud. 
Beef downed our line, but without looking up past history we are willing to bet that it was the scrappiest crowd that ever fought on Nebraska field. Capt. Carberiy and Ed De­gree faded from the football horizon in a blaze of glory. Carberry broke a finger ear­ly in the game, but bandaged it to another finger and went back to the fight. Degree was pounded unmercifully, but was always the line's main bulwark, as well as our best kicker. 
It would not be fair to single out any other star in the line. Every man gave all he had, and as a unit the line succeeded to a large extent in overcoming Nebraska's mountain-like superiorities in weight and ex­perience. 
Capt. Hartley and Dave Noble were the big men on Nebraska's team. Their gains through the line were deadly consistent, and it was they who executed the pass that re­sulted in the second score. 
After all, it was almost inevitable that Ne­braska should win. Had the Blue and Gold triumphed Rockne's men would have per­formed the gTeatest miracle in gridiron his­tory. And it is marvellous in itself that a team like ours, which on paper lacks many essential qualities, should bowl through a terrific schedule with but one defeat. 
Congratulations, Nebraska! You deserved to win. But beware, for next year you will face the same team and a new team com­bined. 
Shortly after the kickoff Nebraska got possession of the ball on her 40 yard line, and using straight football, marched steadily down the field to Notre Dame's one foot line. 
B26 '^e Noure Stome Scholascic 
Here the Blue and Gold held; on the fourth down tlie ball was fumbled and recovered by Nebraska, but the ball went to Notre Dame on downs. Degree made a spectacular punt that rolled to Nebraska's 25 yard line. The game was a see-saw affair from then until the end of the quarter. 
In the second quarter Nebraska started another powerful march which ended only when Hartley drove through the center of the Notre Dame line for a touchdo^vn. He i:icked goal. After an exchange of punts gave the ball to Nebraska in midfield late in the second quarter, Hartley, Noble and Lew­ellen drove through the Notre Dame line for consistent gains. A 15 yard penalty set Nebraska back to the N. D. 45 yard line. Hartley started around the Notre Dame left end, and as he was about to be tackled, tossed the ball to Noble, who dodged arid side stepped for 38 yards and the second touch­down. Hartley kicked goal. During the rest of the quarter the ball was in Notre Dame's terrif oiy, but was chiefly in her pos­session. 
Notre Dame took the ball on its own 24 yard line early in the third quarter, and with a brilliant passing attack carried it down the field 76 yards for a touchdown, Don Miller going ov^er after he had grabbed a forward pass from Layden, who threw from Ne­braska's 38 yard line. Layden's attempted dropkick for the extra point went wild. After this there were exchanges of punts, but near the end of the period Notre Dame opened another passing attack from their own 40 yard line which carried the oval to Nebraska's 11 yard line as the quarter «nded. Layden shot a pass to Stuhldreder which netted eight yards, and Layden and Crowley caried the ball eight more on two end runs. A pass, Stuhldreher to LaydeiT; netted 15 more, and another pass, Laj^^den to Stuhldreher, put the ball on the 11 yard line. 
Two assaults by Don Miller and one by X.ayden through Nebraska's line netted seven yards as the last period opened. But Stuhl­dreher was thrown for a five yard loss as he was attempting to pass, and Notre Dame's 
<;hance was lost. There were several ex­changes of punts, and three fumbles that 
prevented Notre Dame from getting under way. Crowley made a pretty pass to McNulty and Layden and Don Miller cracked off a few nice gains, but Notre Dame lost the ball on a fumble. H. Dewitz got away for a 45-yard run that put the ball on the Blue and Gold 15-yard line. But Nebraska's attack was not strong enough to put the ball over the line. After Nebraska failed at an attempted field goal, Notre Dame took the ball. Layden passed to Don Miller for 20 yards and the whistle blew with the ball in Notre Dame's possession on her 40-yard line. 
Lineup: 
NOTRE DAME. NEBRASKA. 
Carberry (Capt.), McNulty Schoeppel, Thomsen Left end. Stange, Cotton Wenke, McGlasson Left tackle. Brown, Weibel Berquist Left guard. Eegan, Walsh, Voss Peterson Center. Degree, Kizer Bassett, McGlasson Eight guard. Oberst Weller Right tackle. Vergara, Mayl Scherer Right end. Thomas, Stuhldreher RusseU, H. Dewitz Quarterback. Bergman; Crowley Noble, R. Dewitz, H. Dewitz Left halfback. Livergood, Layden Lewellen Fullback. Connell, D. Miller, G. Miller Hartley (Capt.) Right halfback. 
Officials: Referee, Walter Eckersall, Chicago; umpire, J. J. Schommer, Chicago; head linesman, 
F. H. Young, Illinois Wesleyan; field judge, H. G. Hedges, Dartmouth. 
INDIVIDUAL  SCORES  FOR  THE  SEASON.  
Touch­  Points  Field  
Player  downs After T. Goals  Total  
Castner  8  9  2  63  
Crowley  5  4  34  
D. Miller  5  30  
Stuhldreher  5  30  
Mayl  2  12  
Thomas  2  12  
Maher  2  12  
Layden  1  3  9  
Cerney  1  1  7  
Vergara  1  6  
Kane  ^  1  6  
Degree  _^  .  1  . .  1  



We Nocre Same Schdascic 
TROUNCING TECH. 
It is becoming quite common for teams on Notre Dame's schedule to prime during a large part of the season for our warriors, staking every chance on beating us and gain­ing nation-wide fame. The latest aggrega­tion to bet all they had against us was Car­negie Tech, who fell before- our terrific at­tack on November 25., 19 to 0. 
Notre Dame's attack, featured by the su­perlative play of Layden, Stuhldreher, Crowley, Bergman and Miller, was just what an ideal attack should be. Every man was so good that no individual starred. Notre Dame made 16 first downs to Tech's five, and netted 60 yards on passes. All of Tech's passes failed, while only one Irish toss went amiss. We used nothing but straight plays, but we executed them as a text-book might say they were to be executed. Substitutions were numerous, yet our new men seemed always as good as their predecessors. 
The line worked like a solid steel unit. Robertson, the widely-heralded Carnegie star, could make almost nothing through our forwards, and Brumbaugh did but little bet­ter. Our tackling was impressive—^hard, clean and deadly. Capt. Carberiy, Degree, Vergara, Regan and E. Miller formed the foundation upon which our impregnable wall rested. 
To start the game Stange kicked to Ander­son on the Tech 20 yard line. He ran it back 10 yards. Robertson and Brumbaugh smashed through for first down. Line plays failed and Anderson punted to Thomas who returned 15 yards to the Notre Dame 27 yard line. DegTee punted to Anderson, who was downed on his 45 yard line. Tech failed at the line again and Anderson tried an on­side kick, sending the ball out of bounds. Notre Dame put it in play on their 36 yard line. Bergman ran 35 yards at right end. With the ball on the Tech 35 yard line, Berg­man passed 12 yards to Carberry. 
Bergman made eight yards at right end. Connell hit left tackle for three yards and first down on Tech*s eight yard line. Lay­den fumbled and Stuhldreher recovered over the goal line for a touchdown for Notre Dame. Layden's attempted drop kick for 
point was blocked. Score, Notre Dame 6, Tech 0. 
Layden punted to Robertson, who made a fair catch on his own 49 yard line. Regan intercepted Robertson's pass on his 49-yard line. Miller ran nine yards on the first play^ Notre Dame was penalized five yards for off­side play and Crowley ran for a first down^ on Tech's 36-yard line. Notre Dame was-penalized five yards for offside play. Miller ran 21 yards at left end. Layden ran eight yards off tackle. Crowley ran six off tackle for first down on the Tech nine yard line^ Miller ran left end for a touchdown. Score,, Notre Dame 12, Tech 0. Layden missed the-drop kick try for goal. 
Anderson punted 40 yards to Stuhldreher, who was downed on the Notre Dame 35 yard line. Crowley went off right tackle for 22 yards. Tech was penalized five yards. Stuhl­dreher hit center for five yards. Miller rare eight yards for first down on the Tech 26^ yard line. Layden hit center for three and Crowley went off tackle for six. Crowley made three more and first down on the Tech 15-yard line. Layden made five yards off tackle. A forward pass Stuhldreher to Lay­den was good for a touchdown. Degree* kicked the point after touchdown. Score:: Notre Dame 19, Tech 0. 
NOTRE DAME. CARNEGIE TECH. 
Carbeiiy (Capt.), McNulty, Collins Potter-
Left  end.  
Stange  Zelt  
Left tackle.  
Flinn, Weibel  Comfort, Kristoff,  Eosenbloont  
Left  guard.  
Regan, Walsh  ,  Ir\Arin, Taylor  
*  Center.  
Degree,  Kizer  '— Gilbert  
Right guard.  
E. Miller, Oberst  Sprinkle- 
Right tackle.  
Vergara,  Mayl  Newman- 
Right end.  

Thomas, Stuhldreher ! Robei-tson, Wierman-Quarterback. Bergman, Crowley Moran, Lamb' Left halfback. Connell, D. Miller, Maher Anderson (Capt.) Right halfback. Livergood, Layden Brumbaugh-Fullback. 
Officials: Referee, Verry, Penn State; umpire, Daugherty, Wash.-JefF.; field judge, SusB, Prince­ton. 
lofte Houre ^ame §chola8Cic 
Michigan (41) B F P T FROM GRIDIRON TO FLOOR. 
Haggerty, If. 3 0 1 0 Although-handicapped by a slow start due • Miller, rf. 6 16 1 2 to the adaptation of several men from grid­Ely, c. 2 0 0 2 Paper, rf. 2 0 1 0
iron to floor work, Halas' cage quintet is 
Birks, Ig. 0 0 0 0
rapidly developing typical mid-season fonn. 
McGregor, Ig. 0 0 1 0 A practice game with the Michigan City Henderson, If. 0 0 1 0 
Y. M. C. A. ushered in the season December Stegeyer, rf. 0 0 2 0 Burkan, Ig. 0 0 1 0
4. Sheehan and Reardon starred in the 
Emery, c. .-0 110
game which resulted in a 31 to 25 victory 
Kresback, rg. 0 0 1 0
for Notre Dame. The score and summary 
Landry, If. 0 0 2 0 are: Cappon, Ig. 0 0 0 -1 
Notre Dame (31) B F ' P T 
Umpire, H. 'V. Millard, Illinois Wesleyan; ref­
Logan, f. 1 0 0 0 eree. Young, Illinois Wesleyan. Sheehan, i. 5 0 0 0 Zane, f. 0 0 10 
A different story was told the following 
T. Murphy, c 1 0 0 0 
night when the Michigan Aggies were 
lieardon, c. -3 0 0 0 
trounced 40 to 15. The Irish tossers showed 
Kizer, g 2 5 2 0 
JMayl, g. 0 0 3 0 exceptionally fine form and teamwork and, O'Boyle, g. 0 0 2 0 though a trifle slow in getting started, soon Enright, f. 10 0 0 
had the Farmers outpointed by their remark­able floor game. The summary :
Totals —13 5 8 0 Notre Dame (40) B F P T
IVIichigan City Y. M. C. A. (25) B F P T Precious, f. 4 0 2 0 Enright, rf. 4 10 1 0 Estes, f. 2 0 1 1 Sheehan, rf. 0 0 0 0 W- Cook, c. 0 7 10 Kane, If. ^ ^ 0 0 10 Heally, f. 1 0 1 0 Logan, If. 2 0 0 1 Loomis, g. 1 0 0.0 Mahoney, If. 0 0 0 0 
G. Cook, g. 10 2 0 Miller, c. 2 0 0 0 Moody, c. 0.0 0 0 Reardon, c. 2 0 3 0 Murphy, c. 0 0 0 0 
Totals 9 7 7 1 Kizer, Ig. J 4 0 2 0 Mayl, rg. ' ^ 10 2 0 O'Boyle, rg. 0 0 0 0
The strong Michigan team, which will probably prove to be one of the foremost in Michigan Aggies (15) B F P T the Big Ten, was met the following Friday, Cutler, If. 4 5 2 1 and despite a strong comeback in the second Demerrill, If.. 0 0 0 0 half, the score stood 41 to 23 with Notre. Ralston, If. . 0 0 0 0 
McMiller, rf. 0, 0 1 0
Dame on the debit side of the ledger. Dur­
Nutilla, rf. 0 0 0 0
ing the first half the Michigan tossers, in 
Bilkey, c. 1 0 2 0
typical mid-season form, ran up the over­
Richards, c. _1 0 0 1 1 whelming score of 29 to 7, but the Gold and Kuhn, c. 0 0 1 0 Blue came back'in the second half, outplay­Kidman, dg. : 0 0 0 0 Swanson, Ig. . 0 0 0 0
ing Michigan and outscoring them for the 
Eva, rg. 1 ; 0 0 3 0
half 16 to 12. 
Fessenden, rg, . 0 0 1 0 Notre Dame (23) B F P T Referee, Ray, JUinois; umpire, Millard, Illinois 
Mayl, rf. 0 0 2 0 Wesleyan; field judge. Young, Illinois Wesleyan. 
Kane, If. 0 0 0 2 Eeardon, c. 0 0 4 0 Kizer, rg. 3 13 1 2 Nobel Kizer and Rex Enright are the lum­
Sheehan, Ig. 1-0 0 0 1 inaries of this year's squad, Kizer playing an Logan, If. : 0 0 10 
excellent game at guard as well as being a 
Mahoney, If. 0 0 2 0 
remarkable basket-tosser, 
Enright, Ig. 2 0 1 0 
THIEMANN. 
MiUer, c. 0 0 2 0 
iSiiauaiCMumisTJ •.
itMi 
xx'' ^i 
'f^'^y-^' ? \ fr^'fr "i^f^tff 51 #' * ''i: f ^ p '^''«ps?l^»'^- ••^^W"*r: n^lj^Ki^:; 
,,c, ...^^•- NV 
THE TEAM. 
the forward pass as has no other coach in the coun­
BILLY EVANS SAYS. 
try. Notre Dame year after year has boasted an Chicago Post. .aerial attack that has made it one of the most 
While reviewing the records of the leading col­feared elevens in the country. 
lege coaches one must not overlook the remarkable In perfecting the aerial' game Rockne has not 
feats of Coach Knute Rpckne at Notre Dame. overlooked the fundamentals or the other essential 
Rockne, by the way, is a product of Notre Dame. features of a well-rounded eleven. As a result He captained the 1913 team which won seven games Notre Dame teams under Rockne have been well and lost none. When Jesse Harper, who had suc­coached. cessfully coached Notre Dame teams for five years, In his first year at Notre Dame Rockne's team retired, Rockne was called upon. won six and lost one game. This was in 1918. The 
Rockne faced a rather difficult task when he as-defeat was administered by the strong Nebraska .sumed Harper's place at Notre Dame. Under Har­team by the score of 7 to 0. per the "Fighting Irishmen" had been vei'y success­In 1919 and 1920 the Notre Dame team was un­ful. In five years the team had won thirty-five p,nd defeated, winning nineteen straight games. Last lost only five games. season Notre Dame won ton and lost one game. 
Under Rockne, Notre Dame has achieved its Iowa handed out the only defeat, 10 to 7, in a game greatest success on the gridiron, Ho has dcyelop'cc^ in whicli NPU'C JPamo gained twi'qg (^s wv'ch gTound, 
Q 
3 
CI 

'^e Noure dame Sdtidastlc 
THE SHIFT. 
WALTER ECKERSALL. 
Chicago THbune. 
The game ended shortly afterward with the ball in Nebraska territory in Notre Dame's possession. 
While great credit is due Nebraska, Coach Daw­son and Capt. Hartley, Notre Dame played a great uphill game, one w^hich brought forth rounds of ap­plause from even the stanchest Cornhusker ad­mirers. 
Coach Rockne is deserving of credit for develop­ing a team which has overcome handicaps all season. Defeated by Nebraska, held to a scoreless tie by the Ai-my, but victor over Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Indiana, Purdue, and other elevens of the middle west, the season at Notre Dame may well be con­sidered a success. 
Among the notable guests at the game were Gen. Pershing, who marched around the field behind the Nebraska band before the game started. A. A. Stagg, football coach at Chicago, Esmon, scout at Ohio State, and several other leaders of the foot­ball world were in the stands. 
JAINIES J. LONG, 
Pittsburgh Sun. 
Particularly was it no disgrace to the Tartan wearers to go down in defeat before the University "of Notre Dame in Tech's concluding game of the year at Forbes Field last Saturday. Neither would it be a disgrace to any other team to lose to the power­ful westerners, for if Notre Dame's team, when Paul Castner is at his backfield post, doesn't come very close to being the best in the entire country local fans would like very much to get a look at one that is better or even as good. 
Pittsburgh gridiron devotees were prepared to see a fine team in Knute Eockne's aggregation, but what they saw exceeded all expectations. They saw a team that was class all the distance in every de­partment of the game, a team with a wealth of power, speed, skill and spirit, a team that could rip through the line or dash around the ends, a team that used the forward pass like a bunch of diamond athletes tossing a baseball around, a team that was just about 100 per cent perfect. 
True, Nebraska's big team, averaging 190 pounds, beat the Indiana .gridders on Thursday, but with such stars as Castner, Desch and Lieb missing, the Hoosiers clearly were far below their normal" strength and it was not Notre Dame's best team by any means that the Cornhuskers downed. The real class of the Notre Dame team may be judged from the fact that, while it looked like a world-beater against Tech here a week ago. Coach Rockne insists that Castner is 30 per cent of his eleven's strength and that the outfit was shy just that per­centage of its power against Tech and Nebraska by reason of the loss of Castner's services, -without counting the absence of Desch and Lieb. Rockne rates Castner the country's closest approach to the late George Gipp, except in the matter of durability, Castner being more susceptible to injury than was Gipp. 
All-around, Notre Dame gave one of the most pleasing exhibitions of football here that local fans have had the privilege of witnessing in a long time, and by no means the least feature of its play, and one detail that makes it stand out beyond most teams in the country, is the fact that it had such a big string of bigh-class players in reserve that it was able to replace every regular with a substi­tute who looked just about as good as the man he supplanted. As one wag observed after the game, "Notre Dame is two of the best teams I have ever seen." Needless to say. Coach Rockne and his In­diana stars will be among the most welcome visitors of the season here next year when they come back for another game with Tech. 
Springfield (Mass.) Rejniblican. 
It was reported in press dispatches from New York earlier in the week that Notre Dame would not play West Point next year—^that relations were to be broken oif. This was followed by a news story from South Bend, Ind.—^home of Notre Dame—in which Knute Rockne, coach of the "Fighting Irish," was reported as stating that West Point would have a place on their schedule as usual. But—will these old rivals meet, again? There may be some change made before the 1923 season rolls around, unless Eastern alumni of Notre Dame are mistaken. 
Eastern grads of the South Bend university who attended the Army-Notre Dame game at West Point a week ago Saturday are loud in their denunciation of the conduction of the game, both from the play­ing standpoint and the lack of facilities accorded the spectators. It is claimed that several thousand people who had journeyed Idng distances to witness the garne. were unable to even get more than a long­distance glimpse of the gridiron. 
The feeling is general apiong the alumni, it is said, that one of the chief objects of a football game is to bring the alumni together with a renewal of the old college ties—a chance to cheer for their 
ieam. Under present conditions at West Point this is absolutely impossible. First of all West Point is an unliandy place to get to and secondly there are no reserved seats there. The result is that the Notre Dame alumni of the East, who make this game an objective each season, have never been able to secure any reserved seats and are scat­tered all over the' grounds, many of them never meeting at all. In addition there is an exasperating wait at the ferries after the game, all of which makes attendance at the game more a test of en­durance than an athletic pastime. 
At the game this year it was estimated that more 

'^e Houre dame Sehdascic 
than 5000 people, many of whom had motored from distant points, were unable to see the game at all, and returned to their homes disappointed and weary. 
Notre Dame has won six out of eight games from the Army and tied one, so the series no longer pos­sesses the interest that a closer series would provide. The old grads fail to see why Notre Dame should provide annual instruction for the Army team be­fore its Navy game and this is really what the series has degenerated into, it is claimed. At all events the Eastern alumni are emphatically protesting against the continuance of the series and hope that negotiations will be entered into with either Dartmouth or Cornell for an intersectional game to be played in New York City, at either the Polo Grounds or the Yankee Stadium. 
Neivs-Times. 
Acclaimed the "fightinest" of the lighting Irish teams, Notre Dame's 1922 football squad was hon­ored by 200 members of the University Club at the annual football dinner which was served in the Eotary room of the Oliver hotel last night. 
At the session Coach Knute Eockne made definite announcement of the booking of Georgia Tech for the 1923 Homecoming game on Oct. 27. First steps to secure a stadium to seat 40,000 people were taken as the other feature of the banquet. 
Speakers of the evening included Mayor Eli F. Seebirt, Coach Knute K. Eockne, Harry Costello of Detroit, Mich., Assistant Coach Walter Halas and Capt. Glen Carberry. Frank E. Hering acted as toastmaster. 
The stadium plan was brought out by Mayor Seebirt in his address of welcome to the Notre Dame squad. As a result he was named chairman of a committee to confer with university officials in an effort to devise a plan to raise $150,000 necessary to build the stadium. 
"Our biggest problem in aiding Notre Dame's wonderful football teams," said the mayor, "is in securing leading teams for home games. This can only be done by ha\dng proper facilities for hand­ling great crowds." 
Coach Eockne, in his talk, explained that efforts had been made this fall to secure bookings for next season with Syracuse, Colgate, Centre, Lafayette, "Washington and Jefferson, Dartmouth and a half dozen other big teams, but that these elevens would not leave their home field for guarantees of even as much as $12,000. 
He" announced, however, that the Georgia Tech game would be played in South Bend as the Home­coming game and nowhere else. He also declared that the Nebraska and Carnegie Tech games in 1924 would be played here. 
"The success of this season is due to one thing," said Eockne, "and that is the team's fight. I think the squad reached the apex of its strength in the 
Georgia Tech game, for after that we never had all the men in condition at one time. We lost the Nebraska game because we missed our chances to score largely through inexperience. It is the 'fight­inest and tackliest' team I have ever had, and it fought to the end. Our colors were ftying on the last play at Nebraska, when a pass netted 40 yards/* 
Harry Costello, a former Georgetown university quarterback, now writing sports for one of the De­troit dailies, paid the greatest of tributes to the team. Costello, who ofiiciated at the Army game, said: 
"It is good to be here to pay tribute to a foot­ball team the like of which I have never before seen. At West Point I was dumbfounded when the squad ran on the field. It was the youngest football team I ever saw represent a imiversity. 
"Three essentials of success that it possessed were the heart, the ability, and the best of coaching. These things are what made the year a success. I particularly noted two men—^Paul Castner and Ed Degree. 
"Castner and Kipke of IVIichigan were undoubt­edly the greatest backs of the year, and of these Castner was the greatest. He played intelligent football, and I do not believe he has a superior. I have seen all the great backs since 1910 with the exception of George Gipp, and none was faster or more aggressive than this man. I class Castner with the man greatest of them all in my mind—^the Indian, Jim Thorpe. 
"Degree possessed weight, plenty of strength in his arms and shoulders and a powerful leg drive. He opened some big holes in the Army line, and that line was as good as any in the country. 
"In short, I never saw a team that looked so sweet as that gang of boys going down the field at West Point." 
Coach Halas lauded the men for their fight and stick-to-itiveness, while Capt. Carberry expressed his thanks to the University Club for the banquet given the team. Eev. Eobert J. Long gave the in­vocation. 
Entertainment during the evening included songs by the Cameron Sisters and Miss Betty Allen, a monologue by Nelson Jones, a dialect reading by Lee Barth, a series of specialties by Daw and Eus­sell, and motion pictures of the Army game. 
Chicago Herald-Examiner. 
After All—I hear a great many people regretting the fact that Princeton's football team will not play here again. Like many others, I think that Notre Dame could fill the bill as nicely as Princeton or any other eastern team, and they probably would not keep the crowd in suspense as long as Princeton did. They would not be apt to insist upon a home­and-home game, as that crowd of fighting Irish seems to make itself at home on any old baUfield. 
OOi 
'^e Nocre bame §lcho\asv\c 


WALK=OVER 
DRESS OXFORDS $8.00 
Have you seen the new Walk-Over Dress Oxford on the Claridge last? You will like this new last—it looks right on your feet. 
C LOUIE'S 

DooT SHOP 
US' SaMlCMIGANfT. 


After Every Meal 
!5)«­
si^ 
^ ^^. 
k'SS^ i 
The 

Flavor Lasts 
e-«« 
BOOK LEAVES. 
Two important serials begin in the December is­sues of Sc7-ibner's and Century. The first install­ment of Edith Wharton's "A Son at the Front" ap­pears in Scribneo'^s, while the first chapters of "Faint Perfume" by Zona Gale are published in the Century. We hope that "A Son at the Front" is not so atrociously insipid as was "Glimpses of the Moon." 
"Apparently the novel and the short story, as we have known them," writes Henry Seidel Canby in considering the younger generation of American writers,, "are to be scrapped. Plot, which began to break down with the Russians, has crumbled into a maze of incident. You can no longer assume that the hero's encounter with the Gipsy in Chapter II is preparation for a tragedy in Chapter XXIX. In all probability the Gipsy will never be heard from again. She is irrevelant except as a figment in the author's memory, as an incident in autobiog­raphy. Setting, the old familiar background, put on the story like wall-paper on a living room, has suffered a sea change also. It comes now by flashes, like a movie-film. What the ego remembers, that it describes, whether the drip of a faucet or the pimple on the face of a traffic policeman." 
"The Story of Extension" by the Right Reverend Francis C. Kelly is an interesting chronicle of the development of the Catholic Church Extension So­ciety during the last 20 years. Mgr. Kelly, who has been closely identified with the Extension move­ment, writes in an entertaining manner. The book is relieved by frequent humor and enlivened by numerous anecdotes about men and affairs. 
Henry S. Canby, best known perhaps as the editor of the Literary Review of the New York Evening Post, has collected a group of essays in contem­porary criticism into a volume which he calls "Definitions." The book is highly interesting in its examination of the present tendencies in American literature. The essays on "The Young Romantics" and "A Literature of Protest" are a stimulating at­tempt to analyze and appraise the revolt of the younger writers. 
Looking through the pages of "Babbitt" again, we are forced to the remark that the best pages of the book are those devoted to the smoking com­partment dialogue in which Babbitt and Riesling participate on their vacation trip. 
Thomas L. Masson, for twenty-five years editor of Life, is now conducting the department "Short Turns and Encores" in the Saturday Evening Post 
1 
The Nation offers one hundred dollars for the best poem submitted to it during the month of De­
Tofie Nocre ^ame Scholascic 
cember William Lyon Phelps calls "Adrienne Toner" by Anne Douglas Sedgwick the best novel of the year "H. L. Mencken's prose," writes Eobert Littell in the Neiu Republic, "sound like large stones 
being thrown into a dump cart. He has more gusto than humor, more weight than edge, more appetite than taste, and a great deal more ink than intellect." 
For the crematory such books as this, "One Hundred Best Books," by John Cooper Powys "Nine Holes of Golf,"' a golf book written for ama­teurs by Eoyal Cortissoz, should find its way into the hands of a few Notre Dame golf enthusiasts. 
"The Best Short Stories of 1922," the yearly anthology edited by Edward J. O'Brien, will have a companion this year in "The Best British Short Stories of 1922, which will be edited by O'Brien assisted by John Cournos.... "The Stag Cook Book" has probably been needed more than any other book of recent publication. It is a cook book "written by men for men," containing many notable recipes, including one from President Harding for waffles, v/hich he eats with gravy instead of sirup "I imitated Carlyle—^the Carlyle of 'Sartor'—till my mother, who wrote p"ure, undefiled English gave me Cardinal Newman," wrote the late James Gibbons Huneker in one of his letters. "With Flaubert he has^ been my model."... ."Phantom" by Gerhard Hauptmann, which appeared in the Freeman, is be­ing published by Huebsch "Dante and His Influ­ence" is a collection of lectures originally delivered at the University of Virginia by the late Thomas Nelson Page Nine days left to buy your Christmas books.... "Books are^ friends which every man may call his oivn." 
We do not know exactly why, but "Niels Lyhne," by the Danish novelist J. Peter Jacobsen, reminds me very much of Ricardo Leon's "A Son of the Hidalgos," for all its Spanish quality. In both books development of character is achieved through experiences with women, wise and foolish, and in both the author's criticism is aimed at romanticism. What an opportunity there is for a twentieth-cen­tury Do7i Quixote,—an opportunity which many have sought but which no one has transcendently fulfilled. Jacobsen is very distinctly inferior. One is greatful for the brooding, strangely solid charac­ter of his imagination, for the reflective seriousness of his observations. But the pantheism he sponsors is opposition to the starved conventions of a primi­tive Protestant belief is already too old to move us t—^he book was written forty years ago—and litera­ture has welcomed so many analyses of people simi­lar to Niels Lyhne that we find it difficult to regard his experiences with any great interest. The women he books are, however, very real. Bartholine, the mother, is an untainted Madame Bovary. Edele, 
Mrs. Boyefi Fennimore and Gerda are substantial beauties who tell secrets of love and disillusionment with more than usual readiness. Their portraits, by Jacobsen, are worthy to stand in any gallery which cares for women, not as they might be, but as they really are. 


High Class Picture Plays are the Standard Features 
AT THE 

La Salle and Blackstone 
The craftsmanship of W. L. DOUGLAS shoes will ac­complish the retirement of your shoe worries. 
W. L, DOUGLAS SHOE STORE 
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

Tofte Nocre 5ame Scholastic 
Sterling-Midland Coal Co. 

GLENDORA 
THE WONDER COAL OF THE WEST 
Fourth Vein, Indiana 
Clinton and Linton Districts 
Jewel-Du Quoin Perry County, Illinois 
FISCHER BUILDING CHICAGO 
Scotch Grain Oxfords 

$12.00 
—You'll certainly like these 
"He-man" sturdy shoes. 
—They're made by Stetson and are shown as the newest thing this fall. 
—Drop in any time. 

SHOE^ STORES 
ALFRED J. KLINGEL. PROP. 
Two STXMES FoaYoua CoNvcNieNce-
UWES'sCniLDRHl'S SHOP ^. IgftSlOP RtUCE THEATRE out . OUVBiTHEATliE BUNi. SOUTH BEND. IND. 
:S/ 
"THE OLIVER" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
Fireproof SQUXH BEN D ROOMS 
Dining Room .Open All Night 
l^SWS 
SPFLD. LIMA 
ILL. OKIO 
I 21 2 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg. DR. F. W. VAUGHN 
DENTIST and 
ORTHODONTIST 617 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Ind. 
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION 
By CHRISTIAN REID 262 pp.—Price $1.75 
THE AVE MARIA : NOTRE DAME, IND. 
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers 









