N" O T„I^ E3 T) A.^A:^1 
L  500  F O OE V I  T B A E IMf  L  
COACH KUHARICH AND QUARTERBACK IZO.  i>f4^ '^'-«­ 
^ y  

DECEMBER 4, 1959 
™Ya| € Record «^*^''^' ''"^^ S«eK-Pl.t*frE<» sruPlm WW 
Alt vMiTNMiMrMM4rNN,CMfrAeTiM»ft T«|^vEtA(rCiir«i»'Uasv Aift fKANCE orfricC,e»w«lTe THC 

DEPARTING NEW YORK, JVNE iS^ f96p 
NEW PRODUCTS LEAD TO BETTER JOBS AT DUPONT 



COULD YOU MAKE A BETTER BATHING SUIT? 
The suits these girls are wearing are made of nylon, the first truly synthetic fiber. It is a product of DuPont re­search. Pure research. Applied research. And research in manufacture, research in product improvement. All require many types of skills. 
\bu may not discover a newfiber, but as a technical man you can profit well anyway. For once a product—any prod­uct—is discovered, hundreds of technical men go to work. Pilot plants are de­signed. Operating procedures are devised. New plants are built. Manufacturing methods are improved. Product quality is worked on, backed by Du Pont's policy: Let's make it better . . . still better ... even better. Discovery is but the start­ing shot; these later activities are the game. The players? Men of every tech­nical specialty. 
^ 
Yoall find a teamwork atmosphere at DuPont. Others have. Maybe that's part of the reason half of Du Pont's profits today come from products un­heard of twenty-five years ago. 
If you join Du Pont, the men who have worked on new products and ways to make them are the men who will teach you. llbu will be given an actual project assignment almost at once, and you will begin to learn your job by doing it. Ad­vancement will come as rapidly as your abilities permit and opportunities de­velop. For DuPont personnel policy is based firmly on the belief in promotion from within the company strictly on a merit Inisis. 
For more information about career opportunities at DuPont, ask your place­ment officer for literature. 0^ write us^ 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2420 Nemours Building, Wifaningtmi 98, Delaware. 
1t.t^t.ta.f-
Better Things for Better Uving. .. through Cfcemislry 
December 4, 1959 
::^kimm 

ABOUT THE COVER 


SHIRTS EXPERTLY 

The tenor of the whole season is summed up in this drawing by Ken 

LAUNDERED 

5 
Witte, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Pasadena, Texas. Injuries struck a heavy blow at new coach Joe Kuharich's plans as two 
for 


$L00 RUNN CLEANERS 
217 E. JEFFBtSON Downtown—on the Bus Line 
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years! 

preseason Ail-American players were forced to watch much of the action from the sidelines. 
Here one of them, George Izo, one of the best passing quarterbacks ever to play at Notre Dome is seen hud­dled in conference with head coach Kuharich. Izo suffered a knee injury in fall practice. He returned to full strength in the Iowa game and led the Irish to a 20-19 victory. 

KQDL •CROSSWORD 
ACROSS DOWN 
1. Straggles of 1. Subjects of 
some scope snap courses? 
2. River in Venezuela 6. Mountain 
dimbersdig this, on ice 3. Kool's mascot 

13.
 It holds a 4. Compass point square that's 5. Kin of a called a ring cummerbund 

14.
 Sad about the 6. Mad fad code? 7. What sinners do 

15.
 Not the opposite 



8. Little electrical of yours units 
16.
 Seems 9. Little Morris 

17.
 How to start 10. Prague to the 


English Lit. 
Czechs 
18. Initiatesina fog? 11. Character in 

20.
 One way to get Hamlet to first base 12. They're for the 

21.
 Rake from birds Rouen 19. Bolger was once 


23. Favorite subject in love with her of coeds 
22. What the head 
24. They sound guys on this like last year's paper do 
24. What good 25. With vitriol 
27. What 34 Across lookers do is usually for 26. Naval ship 
29. When it's super, 28. Rita's ex 
it's real fast 31. Kool's kind of 

30, Truman's magic birthplace, not 

32. It's just between quite Hedy France and 
34. See 27 Across Spain 

36. Marine (slang) 33. What a hot spot does under new 
37 ^poUoi management 

39.
 Combining 35. Where you feel 

form for within Kool's 


40.
 How Kools smoothness 



always taste 36. Army lads 
42.11
 you blow it, 38. Eggs a la you're mad! 

Bardot 

43.
 3 letters to a 


40. Ready, aim, 
loan wolf ; 
44. Ydlow pigment 41. Certain 
46.
 British fly-boys cigarettes 

47.
 Rose's side-kick (^ng) 

48.
 French ands 45. Sigma's last 49 Mamer 


name 

Wheh your ihroat telk 
\'l 
t .', 
iBMStWKDyi 



No. 9 
) 

you Hi timefor a change) you need / 
1
a real change... 
i 
YOU NEED THE 
MILO MENTHOL 
KING-SIZE 

°f KQDL r 
e 1 B.59. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp. 
The Scholastic 
The Notre Dame 1 
REVIEW 
[ 
Vol.101 No. 9 
DECEMBER 4, 1959 
Founded 1867 
editor-in-chief THOAAAS ROSE 
editorial assistants JAY KILROY WILLIAM CARY 
editorial consultants 
RONALD BLUBAUGH CHARLES TAUSCHE TED THOMPSON ^ 
spedal contributors THOA4AS GANNON ROBERT SCHAEFER JERRY HEWITT TED THOMPSON TERRY SMITH GREG ROGERS TOM BATES 
photography 
WALTER DALY, JR. 
special photography contributors EDWARD SHAY WALT WITTENBERG 
art editor 
JERRY FLORENT 
cover artist 
KENNETH WITTE 
business manager and staflF ROBERT HORN Joseph Rnnigon 
circulation manager 
LAWRENCE LEACH 
od solesmen 
Richdrd Ballot; : Thomas; Carey. James Kepughy 
T^eiFopibail Remew i& 
a i-^guJar iswe ; bfcCthe 

^:;M. 
^<y^ 
SPECIAL! CHRISTMAS SALE 
until December 24 
J^cftre Dame 100 years 
by hx\}[\\\x E. Hope, CS.C 
Only %\2^ 
DURING THIS SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE 
This is the deluxe, illustrated, cloth-bound edition that reg­ularly sells at $4.00. 
A GIFT THAT WILL BE PRIZED BY ALL FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME 
For mail orders, enclose 25c extra for each copy to cover cost of mailing. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Parker-Wiitemwi 
Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS nsya-nZVa No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318 
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Per­sonnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to­weor or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance. 
Placing your order early means better service. 
Parker-Wiitemwi 
Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS llSVa-llZVa No. Main St. UPSTAIRS 
Phone CE 3-6318 

< 
•i
\ ^ 

THE CONVENIENCE OF A CAMPUS CHARGE ACCOUNT... 
When you need clothing or furnishings 
get them and enjoy the convenience of a Campus 
Shop charge account. As a Notre Dame man 
your charge account is always open. . . . 
If you wish, pay one-third in January . . . one-
third in February . . . one-third in March. 
No interest or carrying charge, of course. 
GILBERT'S 
\ 
:| 
On the Campus—Notre Dame. 
The Scholastic 

ENJOY THE HOLIDAYS AHEAD IN A NEW IVY TUXEDO 
$42.50 

Put Ivy smartness in the holidays ahead in a new After Six tuxedo that combines the comfort of featherlight tropical fabric with the smartness of satin shawl lapels, natural shoulders, unpleat­ed trousers. In handsome blue-black. Select yours now in time for the holiday season . . , charge it the Campus Shop way. 
GILBERT'S 
On the Campus—Notre Dame 
December 4, 1959 
THE LASTING CHRISTMAS GIR 
Jewelry 
O 
\rtcarved 
KcOJ3.Sdl\ 

OMEGA 
DIAMOND RINGS 
WATCHES 
BULOVA 

PATEK PHILIPPE 
WATCHES Tfce World**
^0//////////' Fore moat Watch 
^ atche% 
14 Kt. Gold Charms Bracelets - Pendants Crosses Wedding Bands 
3 WAYS TO BUY: 
*
 CREDIT (With No Interest) 

*
 HANDY-CHARGE J E Hr E E E K S 


• LAYAWAY 

121 W. Washington Ph. CE 4-1311 
C/a ngratulations to . . . 
1959 FIGHTING IRISH 
and especially 
A FINE GROUP OF SENIORS 
ADAMSON CROTTY HEENAN MUEHLBAUER RINI STICKLES CIESIELSKi DOYLE IZO NEBEL SABAL WHITE COLOSIMO FLOR LODISH NICOLAZZI SCHOLTZ WILKE 
WAo gove flieir off \hrough four rugged years 
* * * 
SENIOR CLASS OF'60 
The Scholastic
s 

mmfi^sm
^Sm 
Nofre Dame Miniatures for Your Sweefheort 
/ 
^•/ 
CHRISTMAS 1959 
Miniature Notre Dame rings ore available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to shore the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in .. its.modulation and.construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as on ensemble. These plain and contoured bands ore illustrated above. 
?^ 
i>RiCE LIST — NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS — 1959-60 
All rings ore in durable 10K Gold 
Block Onyx $17.00 ENGAGEAAENT RINGS 
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 All-diamond cluster $165.00 
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and bock 19.00 Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire. 
Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00 
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and bock 19.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue 19.00 WEDDING BANDS 
Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Lady's, plain or beaded. Regular $ 8.00 No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 19.00 Lady's, plain or beaded. Contour 9-00 Synthetic "Notre Dome" Blue Spinel Man's, plain or beaded. Regular .. 11.00 No. 2, faceted top and bock _ 19.00 Man's, plain or beaded. Contour 1. 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dome monogram. ; Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
Ring Size For Measurintf Fintfer 
3 4 5 6 7 8 91011 
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Noire Dame, Indiana 
ssa. 
December 4, 1959 
mm 
BOTTOM FlAP 
This offer expires Jan. 31, 1960 and is not valid for shipment into states 
•where prohibited, taxed or reeulated. 
NOTICE: If you are send­ing in for more than one lighter be sure you have provided sufficient post­age to cover additional weierht of coins and paper flaps. 

SPECIA L OFFE R Order as many lighters a^ you  wish!  (Please Print Plainly)  
I I I  LIGHTERS, P.O. Box 85A, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. I enclose 60^ (no stamps) plus the bot­tom flap from 10 packages of BM or Chesterfield or Oasis, for each lighter. (Send money and bottom flaps by First Class Mail only.) _LUM LIGHTERS -CHESTERFIELD LIGHTERS  
_OASIS LIGHTERS  I  
The  Scholastic  

Contents 
Page Season in review.. 12 Action spread .14-] 5 Gome summaries 17-33 North Carolina 17 Purdue 18 California 20 Michigan State 22 Northwestern 23 Navy 24 Georgia Tech 30 Pittsburgh 3] 
Iowa 32 
Southern California . 33 
Behind the scenes 21 All-America team 26 Sports publicity 35 Seniors 36 Coaching stafF's weekly fob 41 Freshman team 44 Next year 46 
December 4, 1959 
THE 

M jk^|# UAkJB ^^ taking the head coaching position at Notre Dame, Joe 
•''^^•* "wmB Kuharich returned to his hometown and to his alma mater. Euharich is a native of South Bend and a 1938 graduate of Notre Dame. While an undergraduate here at Notre Dame, Kuharich earned monograms three times as a guard, was a two-year regular and won All-Midwest honors as a senior. 
Kuharich graduated with honoi's, receiving a B.S. degree in physical education. Among his classmates were Johnny Murphy, now assistant freshman coach and also a South Bend native, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. 
His first coaching job was as the assistant freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1938 while doing graduate work. He then coached one year at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N. Y., played two years with the Chicago Cardinals and was line coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers for a year. He then spent four years as head coach of San Francisco University where he turned out some excellent players and had an unbeaten team in 1951. His next step up the ladder was into professional football as a coach where he was head coach of the Chicago Cardinals for one year and of the Washing­ton Redskins for five years. 
In accepting the Notre Dame head coaching job last year Kuharich realized a long­standing ambition to return to his alma mater as a coach. 
The story of the 1959 Notre Dame football team is a story of inexperience, of injuries and finally of the maturation of eager sophomores into self-controlled, hard-hitting football players. A season that was spotted heavily with the frusti-ation of injuries, costly mistakes and inconsistency, finally ended in glory as a group of well-disciplined and hard­hitting Irish gridders finished the year with smashing victories over Iowa and Southern California. 
ftist Finish. The return to the line-up of three injured players, George Izo, Jim Crotty and Clay Schulz, in the last two games of the year suddenly jelled Notre Dame into an eleven that clearly outplayed both Iowa and Southern Cal, two teams considered to be the best in the country. Against Iowa's specialty, offense, second best in the country, the Irish outgained them 426 yards to 200 yards. Against the Trojan's specialty, defense, where they had been holding their opponents to an average of 84.7 rushing yards per game, the Irish de­fenders held us e to 97 yards on the ground while gi-inding out 219 yards through the tough Trojan line. 
Notre Dame was obviously a far dif­ferent football team on these last two Saturdays from the team that lost to Purdue 21-0, to Michigan State 19-0, to Georgia Tech 14-10 and to Pittsburgh 28-13. While the key to this sudden change in the Irish squad was certainly the return of injured players, this is not the whole answer. For the fii-st time all season Coach Kuharich was able to field two lines which he could alternate inter­changeably without hurting the team's effectiveness. It took eight games for these linemen, many of whom were sophomores, to master their jobs and find the delicate balance between self-control and aggressiveness. 
New Offense installed. It must be remembered that Joe Kuharich and his staff took over the coaching duties only last spring. They brought with them an offense that was unfamiliar to all the players. The seniors were like soph­omores in the sense that their blocking assignments and defensive formations had to be learned for the first time. The Kuharich offense, a straight-T with flankers on practically every play and occasional slotbacks, calls for a tre­mendous amount of precision and can best be learned only by actual game ex­perience. It admits of a great amount of versatility although this aspect of it was limited by the injury of key players. That it is an effective and well-balanced offense once it is mastered is borne out by the final two games when the Irish began to function smooth­ly. In these last two games Notre Dame averaged 396 yards total offense with rushing accounting for about 45% and passing for 55% of this yardage. 
The Scholastic 
•iTi Ti jrjTsinjaiMirii 

END CAME TOO SOON 
Sick List Long. Aside from being re­membered as Joe Kuharieh's first year at Noti-e Dame, 1959 will always be re­membered as the year of injuries. In an almost unbelievable series of casualties, the Irish lost George Izo, Red Mack, Myron (Moe) Pottios, Jim Crotty, Dan Griffith and Clay Schulz for varying absences ranging from the whole year to a couple of games. With three of these six back at full strength Notre Dame looked impressive in their last two games. All together over 25 play­ers suffered injuries which kept them out of action for at least one game. One can only speculate about what might have been without these injuries. They happened. They are part of football. 
The year was especially disappointing for Bill (Red) Mack, junior halfback who had been so impressive as a sopho­more last year. Mack, one of the most dedicated workers and fierce competi­tors ever to don an Irish uniform, saw very little action due to a knee injury. He played on sheer courage and was perhaps only 60 per cent effective. 
Unusual 5-5 Record. When the 1959 Notre Dame squad was getting ready for the season's play, the consensus of in­formed opinion was that the Irish would be doing good to win half of their games. As it turned out, this opinion was right. Joe Kuharieh's gridders ended the year with a 5-5 record. But nobody would have dreamed of the way in which this record was compiled. 

In the opener, the North Carolina Tar Heels, who had been picked as high as number three in the preseason polls, were swept off the field 28-8 by the nervous energy and pent-up enthusiasm of an Irish squad eager to make their new coach's debut a smashing success. 
Against Purdue the next week the in­spiration was gone and the inexperience showed up in its place. Notre Dame lost to a rugged Boilermaker team 28-7 and for the next six games the keynote of the Irish play was inconsistency. Notre Dame won two of these games, beating California and Navy while losing to Michigan State, Northwestern, Georgia Tech and Pittsbui'gh. 
Time and time again the Notice Dame squad would begin to move the ball on offense and then suffer a big loss or fail to make a first down on a third and one situation. And the Irish defenders would often stop the enemy cold for two plays and then mysteriously collapse at a vital point and allow the opposition an un­expected first down. 
Sudden Improvement. But all of a sudden against Iowa the 1959 Irish were a mature and confident football team. Led by Captain Ken Adamson the line became vicious, especially on key plays. On the off-tackle slants where Georgia Tech's Anderson and Pittsburgh's Cun­
ningham had decimated the Notre Dame defense, Iowa and USC were stopped cold, llie defensive halfbacks came up quickly to help out on the wide plays with Crotty and Schulz being especialfy adept at this job.* And the pass dfr> fense became quite adequate as the Irish intercepted five aerials in the last two games and held a potent Iowa air attack to a measly 71 yards. The Trojan pass­ers managed to complete only ten passes in 38 attempts but some of this trouble was of course due to the numb-fingered receivers simply dropping the ball. 
Offensively the Irish attack which had been sputtering all year, suddenly be­came effective. The return of Izo to the line-up loosened up the enemy de­fenses to the point where Crotty, Sefdk, Gray, Perkowski, Scarpitto, Mack and Dabiero could bolt through into the enemy secondary with an amazing con­sistency. Even Monty Stickles got into the rushing picture as he carried the ball on an end-around three times against USC for 26 yards. 
Seeds Planted. For those who meas­ure the success of a football season in terms of won and lost record, Kuharieh's first year was only 50 per cent effective. But for those who looked for a sound grounding in blocking and tackling and an evident progress in the mastery of a new system, 1959 was a good year. The real harvest of 1959 has yet to be reaped.—Tom Rose 
"p). . 
- a» ' •-t 
v> -i \ 
> ^ 
:.^.'i^:?i 
i*^:. :^ 

IZO-TO-STICKLES, BUT THIS TIME ON THE GROUND 
Irish startle Trojans with well executed end-around play. This Izo-to-Stickles play was used three times in the USC gam* with Stickles gaining a total of 26 yards. Monty is the first end to be used as a runner at Notre Dome since Leon 
December 4, 1959 
NOTRE DAME 
>. '^•'1' •< * 4' -*'  
All-Anicricanpass from  end White  Mo for nty the  Stickl only es go Irish bbles TD  up a 4 against 3-yard  Tech.  Mike  Muehlbaucr leads the way for Scarpitto as Jim Maxfield, passing master for the Middies, jockeys for position to make the tackle.  

;Mf!P?:^^^i&i 
Both Bob Scholtz and Mike Stock notice that the ball has Jerry Scattini of California runs into a host of Notre Dame escaped the grasp of the Wildcat ball carrier. tacklers led by Joe Carollo and Red Mack. 
Sophomore Joe Perkowski drives hard into the middle of the Georgia Tech defense but is hit hard as most of the Notre Dame linemen are on the ground. 
The Scholastic 

ACTION 
'* t-fW 
Scarpitto hauls in a touchdown pass from White against Northwestern. The ball bounced ofT the fingertips of Mark Johnston the Wildcat defender and into the arms of the fleet Irish right halfback. 
Sophomore fullback Dick Naab finds his path blocked by two big Georgia Tech tackles as he attempts to slide off to the right. 
Monty Stickles is shown scoring three of his ten points in the Georgia Tech game, a 41-yard field goal. Stickles scored all ten of the Notre Dame points. 
Frank Gargiulo leads Scarpitto around end as Notre Dame linemen are sprawled Jim Crotty deflects .a pass at the last minute. on the ground. Mike Muehlbauer has made a good block on the Navy tackle. The ball is poised on baraway's shoulder. 
December 4, 1959 
PEP RALLY The Friday night before each home foot­ball game is the occasion for about 2,000 Notre Dame students to lend vociferous support to the Fighting Irish football team. These pep rallies are famous for the spirit and enthusiasm dis­played by the students in support of their team. Most of the visitors who are on hand for the week end make it a point to start the week end by attending the pep rally. All of the team members are present at the rally. There are always several distinguished speakers on the program, usually past Notre Dame greats. But the most interesting and exciting parts of the rally are the spontaneous and unplanned occurrences which arise from the enthusiasm of the students. 
Coach Joe Kuharich is shown here as he addresses the initial rally of the year. It is Notre Dame tradition that the coach of the team speaks at the opening rally. In the follow­ing weeks vaiious members of the team are called upon to get up and voice their own sentiments and those of the team to the student body. 
Notre Dame pep rallies are an amazing spectacle to watch and furnish the basis for saying: "When you play Notre Dame, you don't play eleven men, you play 6,000." 
The Scholastic 
Nofre Dame 28 

SURPRISE 
Norfh Carotina ... 8 

NOTRE DAME, Ind., Sept. 26, 1959—Football crowds at Notre Dame are usually noisy. For some reason this one wasn't. The reason? Simply this. The football team Joe Kuharich had taken over from Terry Brennan was playing its first game this gray September day and the people in the crowded stands were waiting to see how well hometown boy Kuharich had done, to see whether his team would have the "excellence" that the Brennan-tutored 1958 club had suppos­edly lacked. More than that, the whole sporting nation was watching the rain-soaked South Bend gridiron to see whether Kuharich could parlay professional football methods and twelve returning lettermen into a combination that would better the six won, four lost record of Brennan's last squad, which had been a preseason choice for national honors. 
So the crowd sat quietly as the Irish, in brand new, blue jerseys, ran through 
pregame calisthenics. On the other side Statistics already been decided. 
from three yards out and the young Irish skipped into the dressing room with a 20-0 lead. 
It was the same story in the second half. The Irish com­bined aggressive defense and strong kicking by sophomore halfback George Sefcik to contain the Tar Heels, then cashed in on the breaks for easy scores. One Sefcik kick sailed out of bounds on the Carolina one. Monty Stickles broke through on the next play to block Jack Cummings' end zone punt for a safety. A few moments later, Carolina's Wade Smith wob­bled a pass do\\Tifield. Notre Dame's Ray Ratkowski was there to intercept, dance away from the clutches of a swai-m of Tar Heels and sprint 43 yards down the sideline for a score. The Irish had 28 points, Carolina had none and for all practical purposes the ball game was all over. The Tar Heels did avert a shutout, ramming over a touchdown with 27 seconds left to play, but the issue had 
of the field, deep, seasoned North Carolina, smarting from a tough 20-18 loss to Clem-Total First Downs son the week before, was waiting too. 
Net Yards Rushing 
The game began in a driving rain. On Net Yards Passing defense Notre Dame tackled hard; on of­Passes Attempted fense fine blocking sprung Irish backs wide Passes Completed around Carolina's highly-touted ends, Al 
Passes Intercepted by 
Goldstein and John Schroeder, but difficulty 
Punts (number) 
in handling the slippery ball stalled two 
Punting Average 
drives. Then, late in the first quarter, the 
Fumbles (number) 
breaks evened themselves up. Tar Heel 
Ball Lost (fumbles) 
Wade Smith fumbled and Notre Dame end 
Yards Penalized 
Pat Heenan slithered across the wet grass to recover on the Carolina 24. Two plays later quarterback Don White threw to Bob Scarpitto in the right flat and the fleet halfback rambled to the two-yard line. On the next play, Scarpitto cut inside a fine block by Myron Pottios and sliced into the end zone for Joe Kuharich's first Notre Dame touchdowTi. All-American candidate Monty Stic­kles added the extra point and the Irish were ahead to stay. 
Notre Dame's line, for the most part green and inexperi­enced, put tremendous pressure on the Tar Heels throughout the afternoon. Helped by the slippery, rain-wet ball, the hard-charging Irish ruined North Carolina's kicking game, keeping the Southerners bottled up in their own territory for most of the game and setting up t^vo more Notre Dame scores in the second period. 
On the first drive, senior fullback Jim Crotty circled his own left end for 19 yards and the score. Just before the end of the half, Crotty lunged into the end zone again, this time 
ND NC ' In the first i-ush of postgame excite­15 9 ment, Joe Kuharich called the victory "the 223 100 eighth wonder of the world." Later, after 86 60 the dressing room had calmed down, he is­sued another statement, more resei^ved and 
20 19 

7 3 less enthusiastic, as winning coaches usu­ally do. Yet Notre Dame fans could not 
 ... 2 2 
be discouraged. The Irish had done a com­
8 13 

petent job against a highly-rated opponent 
36.4 25.8 

and their supporters looked forward with 
3 3 

more confidence than fear to the next 
1 2 

week's clash A\ith Big Ten favorite Purdue 
120 35 

at Lafayette. The statistics bore out what everyone had seen. In the first half Notre Dame had rolled up 140 yards mshing to Carolina's 18; the Tar Heels had crossed mid-field only once. The strong Irish rush, led by sophomore end Les Travel-, had pressured Carolina's punters so badly that they averaged only 25 yards per kick. On the whole it was a most impressive perfonnance by a young Notre Dame team from which little had been expected by anyone. Inexperience and a lack of depth had made the outlook during the preseason practice only hopeful and Coach Kuharich's troubles were compounded when twisted knees put passer George Izo and breakaway halfback Bill (Red) Mack out of action. Yet these two fine football players were not missed against the Tar Heels. Don White gave capable direc­tion to three touchdown drives and halfbacks Scarpitto, Sefcik, Ratkowski and Dabiero took up where Mack had left off the year before. —Tom Gannon 
Irish end Jim Colosimo chases Tar Heel quarterback Jack Cummings Second string North Carolina signal-caller Henry Clement is trifqicd who had faded back to pass and changed his mind. up by Ken Adamson on a punt return as Stickles and Heenan dose in. 
December 4, 1959 
Notre Dame 7 
Purdue 28

DISMA Y 
LAFAYETTE, Ind., Oct. 3, 1959—Purdue's Boilei-makers, cofavorites in the Big Ten, brought Notre Dame's high-flying Irish back down to earth here this afternoon with a 28-7 lesson in rugged, hard-hitting football. Notre Dame's sopho­more-laden Irish were no match for the veteran Purdue squad as the first few minutes of the game demonstrated with the Boilermakers taking the opening kickoff and moving 76 yards in ten plays for an early 7-0 lead. The Irish never recovered from this initial shock. 
The Irish rooters had hoped that last week's 28-8 victory over a supposedly strong North Carolina team was just what Coach Joe Kuharich's charges needed to spark them on to a successful season. The sophomores looked like veterans in that encounter, taking advantage of every break to score a decisive win. 
But here in Eoss-Ade stadium before a 

sellout crowd of 50,362 fans, these hopes Statistics Purdue recovered on the Irish 32. Seven were dashed to the ground. Except for a ND Purdue plays later Jarus had his second touchdown few brief moments in the third quarter, the Total First Downs 12 12 of the game, and his fifth in the last two Boilermakers' defense was impregnable and Net Yards Rushing 59 242 years against the Irish, for a 20-0 Purdue the oifense moved smoothly. So one-sided Net Yards Passing 143 66 lead. was the Aictory that Coach Jack Mallen-Passes Attempted 24 6 The second half opened \\'ith the Irish kopf was able to use 62 players in the Passes Completed 10 3 coming out and playing like a brand new contest. ball team. They took tiie kickoff and march­
Passes Intercepted by .... 0 1 
The only bright spots for the Irish were Punts (number) the performances of veterans Jim Crotty, 
Punting Average 
Don White and Myron Pottios. Pottios, a 
Fumbles (number) 
junior guard, was the core of the Notre 
Ball Lost (fimibles) 
Dame defense as he made tackle after 
Yards Penalized 
tackle trying to halt the Purdue attack. One jarring tackle sent Ross Fitchner, Purdue's quai-terback who played an outstanding game at that position, to the sidelines late in the third period with a broken shoulder. Crotty, a senior fullback and two-year monogram winner, averaged over three yards per carry against the rock­like Purdue defense, scored the lone TD and caught two passes for 32 yards in a third period Irish comeback attempt. White, a resei"\'^e quartei-back for two seasons who got his chance when George Izo was hurt early in the fall sessions, called a good game, completing seven passes for 126 yards (over half the total yardage for the Irish). 
One of the major factors in the Irish failure to mount more than one sustained offensive attack was the hard-charg­ing of Purdue's ends. Each time the Irish were faced with crucial third do^^m situations, those ends would either drop the passer for a long loss or hurry the throw and cause a bad pass. For the day they dropped White and sophomore George 
Haffner for a total loss of 61 yards. On the first play from scrimmage in the game, Fitchner went for 20 yards on a rollout around left end to the Purdue 
46. On the next play he tried the same play to the opposite side and got 18 yards. Two plays later he went around left end again for twelve to the ND 21. A Fitchner-to-Bob Jainis pass carried to the six, and Jams went over from the five two plays later to give Purdue a 7-0 lead. 
Later in the period the Boilermaker second unit started a 77-yard, eight-play march that ended with the second period 44 seconds old. Key play was a 58-yard pass from Bernie Allen to Len Jardine which carried to the ND 22-yard line. Fitchner capped the drive with a seven-yard TD pass to Dick Brooks. Allen kicked the point for a 14-0 lead. 
Minutes later the Boilermakers had an­other score. Crotty fumbled the kickoff and 
7  6  ed 80 yards in nine plays for  a  score, the  
36.34210  42.3 5 2  26  key play being a 38-yard White-to-Monty Stickles pass which put the ball on the four. Crotty went over on his second try from the one to narrow the deficit to 21-7. After a Purdue punt, the Irish again  
marched  down  the field only  to  have  the  

drive stopped by Allen's interception on the Purdue 14. Three plays later Jim Tiller, a 150-pound scatback, went 74 yards on a quick opener for the game-icing TD. 
The game demonstrated that the Irish have a good team, not as good as some had hoped after last week's win, but a team which will be able to give most of its opponents a real battle. The sophomores will continue to make mistakes, but these will become more infrequent as they become seasoned veterans. If the Irish can shake the injury jinx that has hurt so much so far this season, the possibility of a 6-4 season does not seem too remote. 
The illusion created by the North Carolina game was shat­tered. Notre Dame appeared as a young team, eager to hit, but making too many mistakes against a tough, seasoned Big Ten eleven. 
—Bob Schaefer 

George S^cik is pursued by hulking Purdue lineman Fred Brandel Boilennaker fullback Jack Laraway is stopped cold at the line of as he hreaks into the clear with Norb Roy coming over to help. scrimmage by an Irish charge led by Nick Buoniconti. 
The Spartan defender is helpless as Scarpitto gathers Sophomore fullback Frank Gargiulo cuts back sharply to his left while his team­in a pass from Don White for a first down against mate Bob Scarpitto is employing a questionable blocking technique on the Michigan State. 
MSU end. 
Pat Heenan, Irish right end, grabs off a pass as Georgia Tech 
Clay Schulz and John Powers zero in on California right half­
defender Butch Carter performs more like a ballerina 
back Steve Bates who was on the receiving end of Mike Mc­
than a football player. 

Keever's inimitable style a few games later. 
Jack Laraway takes a handoff from Bernie Allen as the Boilermaker forward wall lays some Ed McLucas, big Michigan State tacUe, crushing blocks on the Notre Dame defenders. Powers and Pietrzak are blocked out nicely clamps his meaty paw on ScarfHtto's while Bouniconti appears in position to make the stop. helmet as he returns a kickoff. . 
December 4, 1959 
Notre Dame 2B 
California

REBOUND 
BERKELEY, Calif., Oct. 10, 1959 — With a four-touch­down-to-one ratio proving to be the margin of victory for the third straight week, the Irish returned to the winner's circle in their initial outing to Northern California by conquering the Golden Bears, 28-6. In a game marked by the return to action of quarterback George Izo and halfback Eed Mack, the Irish took advantage of two Cal fumbles to score three times in the first 22 minutes, putting the game on ice, 21-0, by the intermission. 
68,500 shirt-sleeved fans had hardly seated themselves after the kickoff when the fireworks began. Irish center John Powers grabbed a \vild pitchout on Cal's first play from scrim­mage, and two plays later, from the 27, Izo hit halfback Bob Scarpitto on the 13 for the first tally. Although the fans saw veiy little more of this ND signal-caller, they did watch another Irish quarterback, 
senior Don White, engineer two scoring Statistics ceptions and punts. The closest the Irish marches in the second quarter, and also ND Cal came to scoring was just after halftime, saw his understudy, sophomore George Total First Downs 17 14 but a fumble ended the drive on the 13. Haffner, put the frosting on the cake with Net Yards Rushing 204 179 The Bears finally got an offense going a 45-yard pass to end Les Traver in the Net Yards Passing 140 52 toward the end of the fourth quarter when fourth period. Passes Attempted 14 15 Bates took off on a pitchout and covered 
The final score might easily have been Passes Completed 8 5 56 yards before Garguilo nailed him on the higher, had it not been for 158 yards in Passes Intercepted by .... 3 0 22. Five plays later, from the five. Crow 
penalties which the Irish accumulated in Punts (number) the course of the aftei'noon. One of these Punting Average was a real rarity, as the boys from South Fumbles (number) Bend gave up 25 yards on the same play— Ball Lost (fumbles) 15 for roughing the passer and 10 for in­Yards Penalized terference with the pass receiver. The Bears, for their part, were only fined 16 yards all afternoon. 
Coach Joe Kuharich was pleased ^\'ith the victory, but quite unliappy over the casualty list. Star guard and linebacker Myi'on Pottios, who at the time was leading the rest of the squad in tackles, was lost for the rest of the season; fullbacks Jim Crotty and Gerry Gray and guard Norb Roy were all put out of action for the next few weeks, and the rest of the team was nursing a variety of minor injuries. 
One of the big factors in the Irish victoiy was the inability of Cal to combine any kind of a consistent passing attack with its mnning game. On the other hand. White hit .on six out of ten passes, Haffner and Izo both connected with TD aerials, and three sophomores and a junior; Gray, Sefcik, Dabiero and Scarpitto, amassed 190 yards on the ground among them­selves. 
Following the Izo-to-Scarpitto tally, the ball changed hands sevei-al times before the Irish took command again late in the first period. White sent Gray galloping through the middle of the line for 17 yards, then hit Rusty Wilke with a pass good for 18 more. A trap play from the Cal 26, spmng Da­biero over center for an additional 15. Three plays later, White took it over from the one. Stickles' conversion after the first TD had been good, so White's kick brought the score up to 14-0 in favor of the Green. 
Two plays after the ensuing kickoff, Irish end Pat Heenan pounced on Grover Gai-vin's fumble on the Cal 40. Thirty-nine yards and nine plays later. Gray smashed across from the one-foot line to complete a drive highlighted by Sefcik's 21-yard scamper over left guai'd. White's conversion gave the Irish a 21-0 lead. 
Here both teams settled down to a series 
of fruitless marches, culminating in inter­

6 4 passed to end Tom Geoi-ge for the six­pointei". The conversion try failed and No­
 40.2 40.3 
tre Dame led, 21-6. 
2 5 
Following the Cal kickoff, three running 
1 3 
plays had gained 20 yards to the Bears' 45, 
 158 16 
when Haffner dropped back and pitched a 

perfect strike to Traver, who hauled it in on the 20 and raced into the end zone. Stickles' conversion was good, making the score, Notre Dame 28 - California 6. The game ended three minutes later with the same totals, giv­ing the Irish their second victoiy of the year. 
It was an important win for Coach Kuharich's young, in­experienced squad. Not only had they taken advantage of the opportunities Cal had offered them, recovering three fumbles and intercepting three passes, but they had held the Bear offense to only one sustained drive. 
The victory also had a special significance for their coach, for the last time he had led a team against the Bears was on an afternoon back in 1950, when he was coaching at the University of San Francisco. On that rainy day, the Dons had suffered a disappointing 13-7 loss. So it was a happy team and a happy coach that flew back to South Bend that night. 
—Jerry Hewitt 

GalifdKiiia quarterback Larry Parque fumbles in the first quarter Al Sabal is caught in a pinch as Bear halfback Steve Bates attempts and ND fullback Jim Grotty is about to recover the pigskin. to circle r^ht end past Pat Heenan in the second quarter. 
The Scholastic 
tUBi 

Notre Dame Football Requires .. . 
SUPERVISION . . . PLANNING . . . 
REVEREND EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C. 
Father Joyce has served in his present capacity as Notre Dame's executive vice president since 1952. He is also chair­man of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and the-University Building Committee. During this past summer. Father Joyce was an American delegate to the North Atlantic Congress in London. Instrumental in the rise of the athletic program here at Notre Dame, Father Joyce, however, has. never allowed it to interfere with the high academic standards, of the University. 
FINANCE . . . 
HERBERT E. JONES 

Herb Jones is now in his nineteenth year as Notre Dame's business manager of athletics. Graduating fi'om Notre Dame in 1927, Jones was the assistant business manager of athletics until 1940, when he moved up to his present position. In­cluded among his duties are the handling of athletic accounts, arrangfing for away athletic events and supervision of the Notre Dame Stadium on football Saturdays. 
EDWARD W. KRAUSE 
Ed "Moose" Krause is now in his eleventh season as Director of Athletics here at Notre Dame. An outstanding undergraduate athlete, Krause returned to Noti-e Dame in 1942 and was appointed assistant Athletic Director in 1948, assuming the head post thirteen months later. The last ten years have been fi-uitful ones for Notre Dame sports and have seen the Irish develop a highly successful well-rounded athletic pi-ogram under Krause. 
TICKETS . . . 
ROBERT M. CAHIU 
Bob Cahill, Notre Dame's ticket manager, has handled more than ten million tickets since he took over his present post in 1941. In fulfilling the details of his job and tryin|f to make seats available for everyone, Cahill has never seen a complete game in Notre Dame StacUnm. Along with Jonea^ Cahill was made an honorary member of the Notre Dame Monogram Club two years ago. 
December 4, 1959 
Nofre Dame 0 Michigan Sfafe ... 19

FUMBLITIS 
EAST LANSING, Mich., Oct. 17, 1959—Dean Look, fum­bles, an inspii-ed defensive line and an off-form George Izo who still showed the effects of his preseason knee injury, all combined to give Michigan State a 19-0 win over Notre Dame on a cool, cloudy afternoon at Spai-tan Stadium in East Lan­sing, Mich. The game was played before the eyes of a nation­wide television audience and 73,480 spectators in the stadium. It mai-ked the seventh Michigan State victoiy in their last eight outings against the Irish. 
Both squads were young teams and their play indicated as much. There were 13 fumbles, nine by the Spartans and four by Notre Dame, and also three intercepted passes. In the end it was the superlative performance of Look, switched to quarterback this season and returning to full effectiveness 
after a preseason injuiy, and the clutch defensive play of the second team Spai-tan unit nicknamed "Cundiff's Crew" after their leader, center Lari-y Cundiff, which were responsible for the Spartan win. It was Notre Dame's second loss of the sea­son, both to Big Ten teams. 
The game opened with a barrage of fumbles. Five bobbles had occurred and the ball had changed hands eight times in the first quarter when Spartan quarterback Look rolled out around right end, cut back sharply, and weaved his way from the MSU 29 to the ND 30, a 41-yard mn. Seven plays later Larry Hudas scampered around left end to put the Spartans ahead 7-0 at the end of the fix-st quarter. 
Statistics yard Izo-to-Lodish pass, with the Irish 
Total First Downs Net Yards Rushing Net Yards Passing Passes Attempted Passes Completed Passes Intercepted by .... 
Piinfs (number) Punting Average Fumbles (number) Ball Lost (fumbles) Yards Penalized 
Four more fumbles occurred in the second quax-ter as neither team was able to sustain a long dx-ive. After Notx-e Dame took the kickoff following the Spax-tan TD, Scarpitto gained eleven and twelve yax-ds on successive plays ax-ound left end to move the ball almost to midfield. Here Izo's pass was intercepted by MSU's Fx-ed Boylen who fumbled but his teammate, Pete Kakela, picked it off in mid-air and hauled it to the ND 38. But two plays later Spax-tan halfback Hex-b Addex-ley hobbled the ball into the hands of Irish end Rusty Wilke. 
Notre Dame stax-ted to move the ball at this point. With Gex-ry Gx-ay and Scax-pitto doing most of the x-uiming, the Kuhax-ichmen advanced the ball fx-om the ND 28 to the MSU 33 whex-e once again the well ran dx-y as Izo's pass was picked off by Michigan State's alert Don Stewax-t and the Spartans led at halftime, 7-0, 
Notre Dame got another bx-eak eax-ly in the thix-d stanza when Adderley let the pigskin slip out of his gx-asp for the foux-th time in the game. Geox-ge Sefcik pounced on the ball for Notre Dame on the MSU 37. But the Irish wex-e unable to capitalize on their good fox-tune as Don White was snowed under on a foux-th down pass attempt by Larxy Cundiff. 
Six plays later the scox-e was 13-0 as MSU's left end Fred Ax-baixas took Look's pass over his shoulder near the left side­line, slipped away fx-om Notx-e Dame defender Bill Clax-k at the ND 22 and x-aced into the end zone. The play covered 52 yax-ds. Bob Scholtz blocked the extx-a point attempt for Notx-e Dame. 
The Ix-ish got another scox-ing oppox-tunity shox-tly after the MSU scox-e. Notx-e Dame took over on the ND 41 and marched 
xight down to the MSU 2 in eight plays. 
The key plays in this advance wex-e a 12­
ND MSU x-ight end fx-om Detx-oit making a spectacu­ 12 19 lar catch, and an 18-yax-d run by Frank  106 307 Gax-giulo down the x-ight sideline to the  79 113 two-yard line. But hex-e the Spax-tan de­ 24 13 fensive unit led by Cundiff stopped Notx-e 9 7 Dame shox-t of the goal line on four stx-aight plays. Gax-giulo carx-ied thx-ee times 
0 3 

in a row and got down to about the one­
6 3 

foot max-k. Izo txied to sneak over on 
 39.5 34.3 

foux-th down but was hurled back by the 
4 9 

inspired Spax-tan defendex-s. 
3 5  40 49 After this demox-alizing failux-e, Notre Dame never sex-iously thx-eatened to scox-e in the x-emainder of the game. The Ix-ish 
did move the ball fx-om their own five-yax-d line to the ND 35 on thx-ee complete passes by Izo, the first being a 13-yax-d toss to Lodish from the ND 3 in which the Ix-ish right end made another sensational catch. A 19-yax-d heave to Scarpitto brought the ball to the ND 35. But the third Michigan State intex-ception of an Izo pass snuffed out this march and set up the third Spartan TD. 
Stai-ting fx-om their own 41 after the thix-d intex-ception of an Izo pass, the chax-ged-up Spax-tan x-esex-ves, foux-th and fifth stx-ingex-s, battex-ed away at the tix-ed Irish line and managed to cross the goal line eight plays later on an end sweep by full­back Eon Hatcher with only 16 seconds x-emaining in the game. The TD meant little, it was simply icing for the cake. Cun­diff and crew had won the game for the Spairtans with their tenacious goal line stand. 
—Tom Rose 

George Izo cocks his talented arm behind good blocking Notre Dame speedster Bob Scarpitto comes around left end <m his the Spartan aids hy Sefdk and Angdo DaUero. favorite iday as Les Traver fends «^ Art Brandstatter. 
The Scholastic 
Nofre Dame. . . • • 24 
Norfhwesfen . .. . 30 

EXCITEMENT 
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Oct. 24, 1959—Noi-thwestem's high­ly-rated Wildcats came up with the big play when they needed it and hung on for an exciting 30-24 win over an inspired Fighting Irish squad. The Wildcats bolted into an early 12-0 lead in the first seven minutes of play by taking the opening kick-off for the score and tallying again quickly after the Irish fumbled on the first play from scrimmage. 
But from there on the Wildcats were in for a battle. Such a quick two-touchdown advantage should put a team out of a game but Coach Joe Kuharich's boys responded to North-western's opportunism by scaling the pants off the Wildcats before succumbing. 
Statistics meant very little in this game in which touch­downs were traded back and forth until Northwestern amassed 
a 16-point lead late in the third quai-ter. It was then that the Irish who should have been hopelessly beaten by this time re­bounded with a touchdown and a field goal and threatened to cross the Wildcat goal line on long passes late in the fourth quar­ter. 
The key to the Wildcat win was their ability to come up with the long scoring play just often enough. Following the first two touchdowns, Northwestern scored on a 54-yard pass play, a 78-yard mnning pass, and a 61-yard scamper from scrimmage by quai'terback John Talley who also passed for three TD's. 
The Irish had one long touchdown play to their credit. Bob Scarpitto grabbed a de­

Statistics made it 18-14. 
Total First Downs Net Yards Rushing Net Yards Passing 

Passes Completed Passes Intercepted by .... 
Punts (number) Punting Average Fumbles (number) Ball Lost (fumbles) Yards Penalized 
flected Don White pass on the Northwestern 20 and hustled over the goal line to complete a 52-yard play for Notre Dame's final six-pointer. 
Northwestern stnick for a two-touchdown lead almost be­fore the umbrella-covered fans could get settled in their seats. The Wildcats moved 79 yards with the opening kick-off to score in 5% minutes. After two plays left the Wildcats with third and ten, Talley hit right end Elbert Kimbrough with a 14-yard down-and-out pass. Later during the drive they teamed on exactly the same play for 14 more yards and Kim­brough scored on the same doAvn-and-sut play that covered 18 jrards. Pat Doyle blocked the attempted placement. 
The opportunistic Wildcats pounced on a loose ball on the Notre Dame seven on the first Irish play from scrimmage following the kickoff. It took Northwestern just two plays to ram it in and build their lead to 12-0. Talley missed on the first of four straight passing attempts for the points after. The Wildcats did not convert after a touchdown all afternoon. 
After driving deep into Wildcat territory, the Irish relin­quished the ball on downs when on fourth and ten, Izo passed to Rusty Wilke on the three, only inches short of the first down. But the Irish proceeded to get it right back on a fam­ble on the NW 2. Two plays later, Scarpitto skirted his own. left end to make the score 12-7. 
Talley retaliated by throwing a 54-yard scoring heave after a beautiful fake to Ray Purdin who was all alone he-hind the Irish secondary and Northwestern owned an 18-7 halftime lead. 
After a recovered fumble early in the third quarter, Izo spotted halfback George Sefcik all alone in the end zone and 
threw him a strike. Stickles' long extra 
point, necessitated by a holding i>enaltyy 
. 
ND NW 
Again Talley retaliated immediately 
 11 15 

through the air. This time he hit end Irv 
 47 120 

Cross on the ND 40 and he scampered all 
 139 183 

the way to complete the 78-yard play. Only 
16 

minutes later, Talley weaved his way 
 10 6 

through the entire Notre Dame line for a 0 2 61-yard jaunt after finding his receivers 7 5 covered to boost the Wildcats' margin to 
 40.0 40.0 

30-14. 
3 4 
The Irish bounced right back too with 
2 4 

White's 52-yard heave to Scarpitto. Stic­
 23 30 

kles' third successful kick made it 30-21. Little more than a minute later Stickles 
kicked a 32-yard field goal to end the scoring for the day. Northwestern managed to keep play centered on Notre Dame's half of the field for the final ten minutes of the game. The Irish, unable to muster another touchdown, had done eveiything but win. They played their hearts out against a strong Northwestern team and came very close to an astound­ing upset. Talley was a one-man show on the field. He completed six of 16 passes for 183 yards and three touchdowns and led both teams in mshing yardage besides with 42 net yards in 13 carries. Northwestem's hard-charging line and alert ends limited-the Irish to only 13 yards rushing in the second half and only 47 yards rushing in the game. —Ted Thompson 
Don White grimaces and braces himself for the jarring onslaoght Pat Doyle is tadded hard jnst as he gets thioiq^ Ae bf AB. of Wfldcat end and safety man Elbert Kimbrough. American linebacker Jim AndrcoCti of N( 
December,4, 1959 » 
Nofre Dame 2S 
Navy 22
MISSILES 

NOTRE DAME, Ind., Oct. 31, 1959—In a finish fashioned pass to Joe Bellino on the Navy 48. Bellino juggled the ball 
for Frank Meriwell, a 43-yard field goal by Monty Stickles over his shoulder and Bob Scarpitto came up from behind to 
furnished a nielodi-amatic ending as Notre Dame defeated snatch it out of his hands and scamper to pay dirt. Stickles' 
Navy 25-22, before 58,652 mesmerized people in Notre Dame placement was perfect and the score was 14-7. 
Stadium to even up the Irish grid record at 3-3. But with less than a minute remaining in the fii'st half. 
The boy with the golden toe completed his kick despite a Navy's air attack struck once more. Maxfield launched a 38­
15-yard penalty for "coaching from the bench" that set the yard pass to Mankovich who fell over the goal. The extra ball back to the 33. The penalty was caused by junior man­point kick was wide and the half ended with a one-point lead ager Bob McCuthan who ran onto the field with the kicking for the Irish, 14-13. tee before Don Wliite had a chance to inform the officials. Red Mack caught the opening kick of the second half and Nevertheless, Stickles booted the ball neatly between the posts ran head first into the stomach of Navy's halfback Roland with 32 seconds left in the game. Branquist who fell like a dead man and left the game. But 
This was the third time that a field goal by Stickles won two plays later Perkowski fumbled on the Navy 48. Maxfield, for Notre Dame. It was also the longest and most dramatic. taking advantage of the opportunity, hit for two successful He kicked one from the 29-yard line to passes, the second to Dick Pariseau who beat Ai-my in 1957, 23-21, and one from the stood abandoned in the end zone waiting 23 to top Duke 9 to 7 last year. Statistics with eager hands to put the Middies in 
The field goal actually broke a possible ND Navy front 19-14. tie with Navy rather than preventing a Total First Downs 18 18 A Navy interception again took the ball loss. The play that set up the victory was Net Yards Rushing 258 82 away from the Irish on the Middies' 47. a pass for two points after the touchdown Net Yards Passing 64 290 Six plays later it was fourth and seven on from Don White to Ray Ratkowski. This Passes Attempted 11 31 the ND 20 and Mather kicked a perfect was the first time that a Kuharich-coached field goal. The score was 22-14 and the 
Passes Completed 4 18 
team had attempted to pick up the two-Irish were at their low point in the game. 
Passes Intercepted by .... 2 2 
point reward for a running or pass play Punts (number) 2 4 In the middle of the fourth quarter, the after the score. Irish came to life. Don White passed 27 
Punting Average 35.0 38.0 The Irish had a 13-point gambler's mar­Fumbles (number) 3 2 yards to Traver who was downed on the gin before the game, but the attitude of Ball Lost (fumbles) ...... 3 0 Navy 21; Ratkowski added 19 yards and the Na\Tr team was anything but defeatist finally Scarpitto crawled over to score. 
Yards Penalized 50 50 
in the first quarter. Quarterback Jim Max-White then passed to Ratkowski for the field led a fast 89-yard drive to the ND important two-point conversion to tie the goal with six consecutive pass completions to put the Middies score, 22-22. ahead 7-0. The Irish held the Middies on four plays and took the ball 
By the end of the game, Maxfield had completed 18 out of on their own 47 with 4:22 remaining in the game. White 30 passes for two touchdowns and a total of 290 yards — a completed a 21-yard pass to Angelo Dabiero and two plays Na-v^y record. Joe Kuharich's gridders tied the contest at 7-7 later lateralled to the sophomore halfback who took it to the late in the first quarter with a 13-play march from their own Navy 12. The "coaching from the bench" set the ball back 
31-yard line which brought the Irish to Navy's 14 where on the 33. Undaunted, Stickles stepped back to the 43, waited George Sefcik wiggled through the line shedding Navy tacklers for the snap. It came, he kicked, keeping his head down, and like water and finally lurching into the end zone. afraid to look up as the ball sailed between the uprights with 
In the second quarter Maxfield proved his humanity by 32 seconds to play. It was too late for Navy, even with the finally thi'owing an incomplete pass on his seventh try of the deadly arm of Maxfield. game. He tried another on the third down but met up with 
The teams were hardly off the field before the stadium 
Irish end Rusty Wilke who sat him down unceremoniously 16 parasites began to feast on the goal posts with piranhalike yards behind the line of scrimmage. This forced an exchange merriment. 
of punts in which the Middies finally got the ball on their own 
20. From here they moved to the 40 where Maxfield lofted a —Terry Smith 
Red Made shakes loose bom a desperation tackle and turns on Sefcik races around right end as Navy's center Frank Visted j^ieed as Middle Jon Zenyuh moves up quickly to challenge Mack. les^K over the fallen Notre Dame oqptain, Ken Adamson. 
The Scholastic 

[SCORES AGAIN.... 
(L^Jju.) 

In Appreciation for the Patronage of Notre Dame Men 
RESTAURANT 

Eddie will chop off your bill 
1345 E. Ironwood CE 2-5861 For Reservations 

upon presentation of your Student I.D. 
SPECIAL RATES FOR Parftes . . .Bonquefs . . . Special Funefions . . . 
after every shave 
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. 
AFTER SHAVE LOTION 
Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best when you top off your shave with Old Spice! 100 by SHULTON 
December 4, 1959 
juumi 
1959 

College Sports 
Back of the Year Coach ( NLLY CANNON RIP 
LSU PE Halfback 
^ ^ g:^^SS^5?^^25 
R9I 
^Jl![^^#.j^^^k^ 

SnCKLES LANPHEAR BAUGHAN McKEEVER NOTRE DAME WISCONSIN GEORGIA TECH use Left End Le^ Tackle Center Right Guard 
1959 

All-America 
of the Year CNGLE 
ENN STATE 
Lineman of the Year BILL BURRELL 
lUINOIS Left Guard 
•!j ^-V 
PiCCA  CARPENTER  LUCAS  BURTON  ROWOS  
use  1  ARMY  PENN STATE  NORTHWESTERN  Mississippi  
jht Tackle  Right End  Quarterback  Halfback  FullbocJi V  
<g"A'f-»;i/K-.».k...,,•-. »^-'..V-5^-ii J.'••!-i--.j.V.'.-'VJ.-A'li----..  „-••.•< .V--'J---. *>>••-.  ; ---••'->.•«. • ?* ^ .a.' M;,^v,^r-fc..5-:  

LSU, Syracuse, Army, Stanford, USC PlaceTwo On Sports Editors' Fourth Annual All-America 
Once again the SCHOLASTIC is pleased to announce its annual College Sports Editors' All-American football team. This is the fourth such team to be selected. The poll was initiated by SCHOLASTIC sports editor John Glavin in 1956. 
The two elevens selected in our poll 
were chosen by the sports editors of the 
college publications throughout the coun­
trj^ Over 300 sports editors wei-e sent 
ballots and asked to pick the top player 
of the year at each position plus a Back 
of the Year, Lineman of the Year and 
Coach of the Year. 
Each year the response to our poll keeps improving. More votes were cast this year than in any of the three pre­vious years. Naturally some of the ballots are biased and repi'esent only a regional awareness of college football and its top players, but this is offset by the cross-sectional participation in the poll. We feel that the fourth annual College Sports Editors' All-American selections represent a comprehensive and accurate reflection of the opinion of the college sports editors throughout the country. 
Coach of the Year. This season was marked by the resurgence of great foot­ball teams in the East, something that has been lacking for several years. 
Syracuse and Penn State of course were two of the best teams in the coun­try %vith Syracuse ahnost sure to be the nation's leader in both offense and de­fense and annexing its first national football championship. 
The balloting for Coach of the Year honors finished in an almost dead heat between Rip Engle of Penn State and Ben Schwartzwalder of Syi"acuse, with Engle winning by a mei'e two votes. While Syracuse admittedly had a more successful year as far as the won-lost record is concerned, the voters evidently wei-e of the opinion that Engle did just as good a job of developing his players as did Schwartzwalder. The Penn Stete-Syracuse game indicates the evenness of the two teams as Syracuse just edged out Rip Engle's Nittany Lyons 22-20. 
This was Engle's 10th season as head 

by BILL GARY 
coach at Penn State and his overall record is now 61-28-4. He is one of the most respected men in the coaching pro­fession today. Engle will take his squad to the Liberty Bowl in Philadelphia later in December. 
Back of the Year. For the second year in a row Billy Cannon, LSU's 208-pound bundle of power and speed, is our Back of the Year. A 6-1 senior. Cannon can run the 100 in 0:9.5. 
Probably his most famous accomplish­ment this season was an 80-yard punt return against Mississippi in the final quarter of play to preserve LSU's un­beaten record. In this run Cannon was at his explosive best, shaking off and out-maneuvering a whole host of tack­lers. 
His coach Paul Dietzel has this opin­ion of Cannon: "Billy's by far the best athlete I've ever coached. Give him a step and he's gone. But if there's no room, he'll run over you, and when he does, it hurts." 
Cannon was a near unanimous choice for the Back of the Year accolade. A look at his 1958 performance quickly shows why. He carried the ball 115 times for a net gain of 686 yards, an average of six yards per carry. He completed three out of four passes not including the TD toss to Mickey Mang­ham which won the Sugar Bowl for LSU. He caught nine passes for 162 yards and one TD, returned nine punts for 89 yards and two kickoffs for 82. 
Uneman of the Year. Bill Burrell's achievements as middle linebacker of Ray Eliot's Fighting Illini are almost legend. The 6-0, 210-pound senior made an almost unbelievable total of over 130 tackles in nine games. 
Burrell's performances in the Army and Purdue games of this past season are especially noteworthy. Against the Cadets he made 22 tackles, intercepted one pass, recovered two fumbles and made tackles which resulted in two other fumbles by Army — all of which caused 
ERNIE DAVIS 
Sophomore All-American 
Eliot to label these deeds as "the great­est single linebacking job" he had ever seen. 
Against the Boilermakers Burrell was in on the astronomical number of 26 tackles. He twisted his knee in the third quai'ter and had to be helped off the field but came back on in the final period to help halt a Purdue drive and pre­serve a 7-7 tie. 
In high school Burrell was a fullback but was switched to guard as a fresh­man. Possessing tremendous streng^th and agility, Burrell is at his best in pulling out to lead a sweep or to cross-block the opposite tackle. In the Wis­consin game it was Burrell's bone-crush­ing and precision blocking that opened up wide holes in the heralded Badger defense. 
Ends. Monty Stickles, Notre Dame's talented-toed flankman, and Bill Carpen­ter, Army's "lonesome end," walked away with the end positions on the first team. Nobody else was even close to them in the balloting. 
This marks the second year in a row 

i (*i 
NORTON BURFORD ROYD CORDILEONE R. DAVIS 
:28 
The Scholastic 
SMITH FUGLER 

for Stickles on the first team. The 6-4, 225-pound end from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., was hindered in his pass catching activi­ty this year because one-half of the famous Izo-Stickles combination spent most of the time on the sidelines nursing a knee injury. But his talents as a kicker came to the fore and he booted a couple of field goals which were over forty yards, one of these winning the Navy game for the Irish, 25-22. Stick­les is almost certain to be a first round draft choice of professional football. 
Bill Carpenter in the opinion of his foi-mer coach. Red Blaik, is "the best pass receiver and best downfield blocker he has seen in many years." In addition Carpenter has proved to be a clever de­fensive player with size and strength enough to meet the attack head-on, and with cleverness and speed enough to hand-fight and cover the flank. 
The second team ends are Don Norton of Iowa and Chris Bui-ford of Stanford. Burford, the main target of Dick Nor-man's accurate aerials, is the 6-3, 198­pound captain of Stanford and called "one of the best ends in Stanford's foot­ball history." Norton, at 170 pounds, is perhaps the finest lineman at his size in the country. He is a tremendous receiver and very capable on defense. 
Tackles. The tackle spots on the first team are manned by Dan Lanphear of Wisconsin and Dan Ficca of Southern PI 
Lanphear, at 6-2, 214, is one of the main reasons why the Badgers will be heading out West this month to get ready for the Rose Bowl. A bi-uising tackier, Lanphear had to be double teamed by all of the Badger opponents. 
Ficca is a burly 230-pounder from Atlas, Pa., and is by general agreement the best tackle on the West Coast, partic­ularly proficient on defense in piling up 
The second team tackles, Don Floyd of 
the enemy blockers and stopping a play 
TCU and Lou Cordileone of Clemson, 
cold. 
were right behind Lanphear and Ficca in the voting. 
Cordileone's credentials are best sum­med up by these comments of his op­ponents: Billy Cannon, "I don't know his name but that No. 74 was on my back all afternoon," and Bo Strange, "He's 
December 4, 1959 
NORMAN ANDERSON WHITE 
the toughest guy I ever played against." center. Although small for a college Cordileone weighs in at 245 and his center at 198 pounds, Fugler is the best nickname is "Big Momma." linebacker in the SEC according to his 
coach Paul Dietzel. 
His lomning mate Don Floyd is in the words of his coach Abe Martin, "a 
Quarterbacks. Eichie Lucas was prac­player of tremendous agility and saavy tically a one-man show for Rip Engle's who never makes a big mistake." Floyd Nittany Lions this year. In his firstis 6-3, 215 and hits very hard. 
game against Missouri this year he Guards. Along with Bill Burrell the completed ten of his first eleven passes, first team guard position is manned by ^ays Engle: Lucas is the best runner Mike McKeever of USC. McKeever, one ?? ^"^^ *«^™' ^ good passer, an exceUrat of the most sought after high school 5^°^^^^' f^'i ^ il'^H^"* ^^^^"^^f•, »« 
 prospects in history along with his t^vin f^^ speed, strength,^ brains and hes the  brother Marlin, is living up to all ex- teams best punter,  pectations and is undoubtedly one of the Our second team quarterback Dick  toughest linemen around. At 6-1, 218, Noi-man from Stanford, led the 'nation  he and his brother are top pro prospects. i„ total offense with over 2,000 yards, 
 Syracuse and Zeke ahnost all of this coming through the 
« air. He had a phenomenal day against 
„ California when he completed 34 of 38 
 SECOND TEAM Passes for over 400 yards. 
 Don Norton, le _ Iowa Halfbacks. Billy Cannon's partner at  Don Floyd, It TCU halfback on our first eleven is North­ Roger Davis, Ig Syracuse western's Ron Burton. The 5-9 speed­ Max Fugler c _ LSU ^*er set a new scoring record at the  Tgke Smith ' ra Auburn Wildcat school with 130 points in three . r ti'\' V C\ years and also led his team in rushing  Lou ^.oraiieone, rr t* / !I average this year with 5.6 yards per  ^l""'* Burtord, re „.5tantord ^^^^^ gjg ^^,^^1^^ ^^.^ Parseghian, de­ '^'*^'* Norman, qb Stanford scribes him as having "every require-Ernie Davis, hb — „: Syracuse ment a coach could want in a player."  Bob Anderson, hb _ Army „ -^ . - c, , « ,_  Bob White, fb .Ohio State , ^rnie Davis of Syracuse and Bob 
 ^"iS'"^?" ^ A™^ *f *^^ T*""** * ^ 
 halfbacks. Davis is only a sophomore but o -i-i. jr * V i^ jr iT. i_ J. he was sensational this year as he blasted  Smith of Auburn are t^vo of the best ^j^^^^ j^ the holes opened by the Syra­ f^ond team guards we know of These ^ ^ ^^^ g^ -^ ^ ^ ^^^ ^t g.2, 205.  J^^o boys just missed making the first p^^ Anderson it marks the third straight  team. Davis led the powerful Syracuse ,^j^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^  Ife which was responsible for the pgrhaps if the Army squad had done  ^^f^ff"^'' ranking first m the nation ^^g^. ^-^.^ the hard-driving half-
m both offense and defense. Smith once . , -„„ ' rJ.^» TIO ^««IJ U„.„«  ^gain was the anchor of the Auburn J^J , 3 . Charlie«'.+!« Flowers'  of Johnny 
Fullbacks. S defense which has always been one of Vaught's Rebels was the 
^  Mississippi the best. He was awarded the football landslide choice at fullback. Averaging  writers' Outland award as the best in-nearly six yards per carry from the full­
Centers. Our first team selection at 
 gj^e lineman of 1958. back spot, the hard-hitting Flowers led 
center, Maxie Baughan, is the main the Mississippi rushing attack, one of reason why Georgia Tech had such a 
the best in the country. 
strong rushing defense. An extremdy quick and sure defender, Baughan made 
Last year's first team fullback. Bob 50 more tackles than anyone else on the White of Ohio State, has been demoted Yellow Jacket squad last year. 
to second team. Running behind a less For the second straight year Max powerful line has hurt the tremaidonaly Fugler of LSU is our second team powerful runner's effectiveness. 
29 
Nofre Dame 10 Georgia Tech .... 74 

MISC UES 
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Nov. 7, 1959—Notre Dame's Fight­simply ran out of time. But they didn't give up. ing Irish fell today before the ground game of Georgia Tech's The Irish attack was led by Don White. White, who played ^'Rambling Wreck*" The score was 14-10, but it doesn't tell 59 minutes, pitched a 43-yard touchdoAivn pass to Stickles. "the story of a Fighting Irish squad that played one of their White's passing had improved steadily throughout the season "better games of the year. and this scoring play was well executed. White completed 
Monty Stickles scored all ten Irish points with a 41-yard nine of 22 passes for 173 yeards. Passing was the focal point field goal, a touchdown and PAT. But this was not enough of the Irish attack. But the Green couldn't run over the Tech to oifset the many miscues which marred the Irish game and defenses. They gained only 64 yards on the ground. gave the Yellow Jackets their sixth victory of the season. Notre Dame's inability to gain on the ground probably 
The Green fumbled the ball to Tech four times and lost cost them the game. The Green only penetrated past the Tech the pigskin three times ^ia the interception route. And Notre 35-yard line three times. Once for the touchdown, another Dame was not able to dent the Tech defenses with any degree before the field goal. On the only other threat, White fum­•of regularity with the exception of a White-to-Stickles touch­bled on the Tech 10. Othei-wise the Yellow Jackets contained 
down pass in the final stanza. the Irish offensive series very well. 
Georgia Tech, on the other hand, got Joe Perkowski, sophomore fullback, a, couple of chances and made the most of gained 51 yards on the ground for Noti-e them. A 32-yard run set up the first Tech Stotistics Dame. Ken Adamson, Bob Scai-pitto and 
touchdowm while a 41-yard kickoff return ND GT Bob Scholtz played the full game. Adam-after Stickles' touchdown set up the win­Total First Downs 9 11 son, Scholtz and Ollie Flor were the Irish ning tally. The Irish defense was able to Net Yards Rushing 64 181 leaders on defense. contain Tech's passing game but on these Net Yards Passing 173 21 The Irish were alert on defense, gi-ab­two occasions, the Green couldn't contain Passes Attempted 24 6 bing off three Tech fumbles. The offense their explosive backfield. The less than worked fairly well but when the Green got 
Passes Completed 9 3 
sharp Tech line play didn't slow the Engi­close, the Tech defense tightened up. The 
Passes Intercepted by .... 1 3
neer's attack. Irish couldn't take advantage of their 3-0 
Punts (number) 7 8 
It was Tech's ranning game that pinned Punting: Average 37.0 35.0 half time lead and the stubborn Engineer the fourth loss of the season on the Irish. Fumbles (number) 5 3 offense churned a fighting Notre Dame The Yellow Jackets continually gained team under with one TD in both the third 
Ball Lost (fumbles) 3 3 
through the Irish line, picking up 181 msh-and fourth quaiters. 
Yards Penalized 20 0 
ing yards. Tech tried only three passes, Coach Bobby Dodd added these senti­two fell incomplete and one was intercepted ments after the game. "Both teams made by Don White early in the first quaiter on the Notre Dame lots of mistakes, but I am sure that neither team ever fought eleven. harder from beginning to end of a football game. It is always 
Tech fullback Taz Anderson played an outstanding game, a great victoiy when you can come from behind twice like saining 85 yards. Anderson was the workhorse of the final our players against a real scrapping Notre Dame team." Tech drive in the fourth quarter, carrying the ball four of Kuharich said that he couldn't "find fault with the ball nine plays from scrinmiage. Quarterback Mai-v Tibbetts, a club. We played pretty well but they played a bit better." 
junior quarterback, usually used on defense, scoi-ed both Mistakes at the wrong time once again spelled defeat for touchdowns for the Yellow Jackets. Tibbetts sneaked over the Irish. Defensively the squad perfonned adequately, allow­
from the one-foot line in the third quarter for Tech's first ing only two touchdowns, but a spasmodic and sputtering score and ran through the Irish defenses on a six-yard keeper offense cost the Kuharichmen the game. Every time Notre play for the winning points. Dame began to muster an offensive drive, it was quickly 
The fourth quarter Tech rally was initiated by halfback quenched by an interception, fumble, penalty or a long loss. Fi-ank Nix. Nix gobbled up Stickles' kickoff after the Irish Tech used alternate units to wear down the tired Irish score and returned the ball 41 yards to Irish territoiy. From defenders who played almost the entire game. Bobby Dodd 
there Tibbetts and Anderson took over and pushed the win­played it close to the vest as always and against the young ning tally across with only 4:27 to play. After that, the Irish Irish it paid off. —Greg Rogers 
jW-' ^ff.' ^ 

'"•^''-'^^^l^^m.P*^^^^ 
Red Mack puts on tbe brakes as he returns a punt ag^unst Georgia Right halfback Bob Scaipitto pulls out around left end as the whole Tech. Alt-American Maxie Baughan moves in to tackle Mack. Yellow Jacket line follows in hot pursuit of the junior speedster. 
The Scholastic 
Notre Dome 13 Piffsburgh 28 

MUDDERS 
PITTSBURGH, Pa., Nov. 14, 1959 — The moody Pitts­burgh Panther tui-ned vicious here today and sent Notre Dame's Fighting Irish screaming from its muddy cage with a 28-13 mauling. The game was played on a muddy field in a steady rain. 
A crowd of 52,337 saw the Steel City eleven, which had been a hot and cold team during their first eight games in splitting even, produce its best performance of the fall cam­paign and deal Notre Dame its second straight loss and fifth in eight contests. 
The Panther "C" backfield of halfbacks Fred Cox and Bob Clemens along with fullback Jim Cunningham tallied the four Pitt touchdowns, with the latter scoring twice. 
Cunningham, a stocky five-foot-eleven, 205-pound junior, ended the day with 101 yards rushing while Cox added another 99. The Panthers End Monty Stickles' conversion gave the Irish their seventh point. 
Moments later, Notre Dame appeared to have backed the Panthers to the edge of the cage when a bad pass from center sailed over punter Cox's head on a fourth down play. Cox still was able to get off a punt and Notre Dame had the ball on their own 43. 
A holding penalty forced the Irish into punting situation but the Panthers were called for overaggressiveness in bang­ing into punter Scai-pitto and Notre Dame was now in Pitt territory on the 37. 
Instead of heading for the goal-line in front of them, the Irish ended up punting from the Panther 46. The Panthers then hit home with their third blow early in the last quarter. Cox punted to Irish halfback Bill Clark 
total offense was only 261. on the Notre Dame five-yard line but the 
Statistics 
But the longest play of the rain-latter was unable to control the ball and 
ND Pitt 

drenched game was by Clemens who struck Pitt's Dave Walker fell on it. 
Total First Downs 13 14 
the first blow at the Irish with a 64-yard After a one-yard burst, Cunningham 
Net Yards Rushing 51 248 
punt return in the middle of the first period. took a pitchout and circled the left side Cox added the first of his four conversions. Net Yards Passing 165 13 for the six-pointer. Cox's try for the extra 
Passes Attempted 14 4
The Irish, using an all-sophomore unit point was good and the Panthers led 21-7. under the direction of George HafFner, Passes Intercepted by .... 0 0 The Panthers added their final and 
threatened mildly to avenge this initial Punts (number) stab following the kickoff but managed to Punting Average reach only the Pitt 37 when soph halfback Fiunbles (number) 
Ball Lost (fumbles) 
George Sefcik was forced to punt. 
Yards Penalized 
The ball changed hands again in the early part of the second frame and the Panthers were once more in possession on their own 27. 
A few short jabs at the Irish mid-section put the pigskin on the Irish 44 fi-om where Cox landed the second blow — a 44-yard dash through left tackle. The 73-yard march took only eight plays and Cox kicked his second conversion. 
The Panthers had the Irish on the run near the end of the half but a holding penalty stalled off another score al­though Pitt was on the five as the gun sounded. 
The halftime rest appeared to be just what Notre Dame needed for within a minute and a half after the start of the third quarter. Coach Joe Kuharich's men had landed their OAvn haymaker. Red Mack returned the kickoff 28 yards to the Irish 33 and Jim Crotty added nine on a pitchout. Quarter­back Don White, needing only one yai-d for a first down, sur­prised the Panthers by passing to Bob Scarpitto on the Pitt 15, with the play covering 58 yards over-all for the score. 
7 D bruising blow the next time they had the 
 35.0 32.0 ball. Scarpitto punted to Cunningham who 5 1 retui-ned to the Irish 28. Cox, Cunning­
2 0 

ham and Clemens took turns, as Pitt 
 33 60 moved the ball to the ND six although 
quarterback Ivan Toncic added nine yards 
on a keeper. Notre Dame was penalized to the three and from there Cunningham scored again. Cox made his fourth conversion. 
The Irish received the kickoff with only five minutes to go and were able to tally again on the passing of quarterback George Izo, He passed 14 yards to Mack, 36 to Scarpitto and finally eight to Scai-pitto. There" was less than three minutes left when Stickles' conversion was wide. 
It was too late for the Irish. The muddy field and the steady downpour had prevented the Irish from launching a concerted air attack against the Panthers. The alternative was to try to move the ball against the tough Pitt line and this proved to be impossible. Pitt played probably its best game of the season and the mud-soaked Irish never could coordinate a sustained march. 
—Tom Bates 

K' "l«jv*u.'^'  
Bruising Pitt fullback Jim Cunningham is shown ramming into the Irish line for his second TD.  Bob Scarpitto, who has got behind the Pitt defender, gaAen ia Don White's pass for a 58-yard sewing fday.  
December  4,  1959  31  

Notre Dame 20 
Iowa 19

IZOcr^^^^^^ 
IOWA CITY, IOWA, Nov. 21, 1959 —A courageous Notre Dame eleven, riding the crest of George Izo's brilliant return to full-time action, surged back in the fourth quarter Avith a 56­yard touchdown to upset the Iowa Hawkeyes 20-19. The victoi-y Avas the first Notre Dame win in four years over Iowa. Coach Forest Evashevski's gridders were seeking to become the first team in history ever to defeat the Irish four years in a row. 
Izo's return to the line-up made all the difference in the world and for the first time this year Notre Dame picked up over 400 yards total offense. Izo himself was responsible for 295 yards through the air with 14 completions in 25 attempts and all three touchdowns were scored by receivers on the end of an Izo pass. 
The Irish defense was also tremendous, 

holding the Hawkeyes, who wei-e the second  bulls-eye once best offensive team in the country and Statistics again. With third and one on the Iowa 45, averaging close to 400 yards per ball game, Izo called a pass play in hopes of catch­
ND Iowa 

to a mere 200 yards total offense. The ing the Iowa secondary off guard. The play 
Total First Downs . 17 16 
vaunted Hawkeye passers, Olen Treadway worked perfectly as right end Pat Heenan 
Net Yards Rushing 131 129 
and Wilburn Hollis, were held to 71 yards got behind the defenders, caught the float­
Net Yards Passing 295 71 
and Treadway watched George Sefcik pick ing aerial, squirmed from a desperation 
Passes Attempted 25 17 
off one of his passes late in the game to tackle and stumbled into the end zone. 
Passes Completed 14 7 
snap the Iowa quai-terback's string of un-At halftime the Irish entered the dress­
Passes Intercepted by ... 3 3
intercepted passes at 126. The Irish 
Punts (number) 
secondary led by Jim Crotty and Clay 
Punting Average 
Schulz was especially alert in moving up 

Fumbles (number) 
quickly to stop the wide sweeps and off-

Ball Lost (fumbles) 
tackle slants of Jeter and Jauch. And the 
Yards Penalized 
whole Irish line was very stingy, yielding ground only grudgingly to the powerful Iowa wing-T attack. 

The game was played on a slightly soggy field but this didn't seem to bother the charged up Irish gridders very much as they took the opening kick off and in ten plays were down on the Iowa 21 knocking on the door. But on first down Ray Jauch pilfered an Izo pass and raced 61 yards downfield be­fore Izo, who had waged a desperate battle in staving off a Hawkeye blocker, finally pushed him out of bounds on the ND 
22. From here the Hawkeyes were able to push over a score and move out in front, 7-0. But the Irish didn't give ground easily. It took nine plays for Iowa to move the ball 22 yards. The Notre Dame squad obviously didn't intend to be pushed around. 
After receiving the kickoff, it took Notre Dame just five plays to move deep into Hawkeye territory with a 23-yard Izo-to-Sefcik pass eating up much of the mileage. Then Izo faded back from the Iowa 29 and lofted a perfect strike into the eager arms of AU-American end Monty Stickles to knot the score at 7-7. 
Late in the first quailer another intei'ception of an Izo pass, this time by Tucker, set the stage for another Hawkeye tally. Tucker returned the ball to the N.D. 25 and a few minutes later Jeter scampered around right end with a perfect block from the fullback Horn to put Iowa in front 13-7. 

Two minutes later the lowans were out front 19-7 as Jerry Mauren returned a Sefcik punt 80 yards down the right side­line. It looked as if the game would turn into a rout. The Irish were playing well but Iowa had taken advantage of every opportunity. 
But with 8:27 remaining in the half the 

lethal aim of Izo hit the 
3  5  ing room A\nth a Avide edge in statistics but  
32.3  31.6  still found  themselves  on  the short end of  
2  3  a  19-13 score.  
0  0  Late in the third  quarter  Notre  Dame  
HO  60  started to march.  They moved from  their  
own  18  to  the  Iowa  4  with  Izo's  passes  
being  interspersed  with  draw  plays  and  

straight ahead smashes by Gerry Gray. But with first and goal on the four the Hawkeye linemen rose up to thwart the drive on the one-foot line. This was a tremendous frastration for the Notre Dame squad and it looked as if they had blown their chance. But moments later Izo struck the killing blow. On first down with the ball on the ND 44, he dropped back and curled an arching pass to little George Sefcik who tucked the ball under his arm and scampered into paydirt to tie the score. Stickles calmly booted the ball right between the up­rights for the 20-19 lead. 
Iowa was beaten physically and psychologically at this point. Sefcik's interception gave the ball to the Irish with 
2:25 remaining and Notre Dame jubilantly ran out the clock. 
—Tom Rose 

day Sdiulz and Jim Crotty come up fast to stop Ray Jauch 
Mike Muehlbaucr and Bob Schcdtz close in on Bob Jeter as 
for a tmc-yaid gain eaiiy in die ball game. 
two Iowa blockers and Max Bumell are left in the wake. 
The Scholastic 
Notre Dame 16 
Southern Col 

MATURITY .... 6 
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Nov. 28, 1959 — Southern Cali­fornia's Trojans came to South Bend this overcast November day ranked seventh in the nation with a reputation for trampling their opponents underfoot. Notre Dame's sopho­more-laden Irish showed the same concern for this reputation as they had for that of powerful Iowa the week before: they ignored it, humbling the Trojan powerhouse, 16-6. 
Notre Dame began to move early in the first quai-ter after end Monty Stickles deflected a punt by USC fullback Clark Holden; the ball sailed out of bounds on the Trojan 39-yard line. On the first play, fullback Gerry Gray found a hole at left tackle and sidestepped his way to the USC seven. Here he was tackled and fumbled, but Nick Buoniconti recovered for the Irish on the three yard line. Gray slammed into the 
end zone on the next play, Stickles con­verted and the Irish were out in front to stay. 
The Irish threatened once more late in the first period as quarterback George Izo passed for 23 and 25 yards to ends Pat Heenan and Stickles, putting the ball on the USC 18. But the drive stalled when Trojan halfback Bob Levingston inter­cepted Izo's first down pass. 
Southern California had trouble moving the ball in the first half. The quick-hitting Notre Dame defense piled up their mnners with negligible gains and pres­sured their passers, Willie Wood and Ben Charles, into throwing erratically. Two breaks gave the Trojans scoring oppor­
Punts (number) Punting Average Fiunbles (number) Ball Lost (fumbles) Yards Penalized 
tunities in the first half — a Levingston interception and subsequent 29-yard return and end Marlin McKeever's re­covei-y of a fumble on a punt return by Notre Dame's Jim Crotty. USC quarterback Wood's fourth down pass sailed out of the end zone to end the first threat, and Irish fullback Joe Perkowski stopped the second with an interception on the Notre Dame six. A few moments later the half ended and the Irish left the field with a 7-0 lead, clearly in control of "the situation. 
Notre Dame's second score came in the middle of the third period after a 49-yard march. Pat Heenan made a diving 
•catch of an Izo pass on the Trojan ten. Bob Scarpitto slanted to the right for four more yards, then Izo rolled out to his left "behind guards Ken Adamson and Al Sabal and moved to the one-yard line. Fullback Gray picked up his second touch­<iown on the next play. Stickles again converted and Notre l>ame led, 14-0. 
Angelo Coia gathered in the ensuing kickoff for USC and brought it back to his own 18 where he decided to reverse his field. He gave ground steadily and Gray's ankle tackle drove him into the end zone for a safety and the Irish were 16 points ahead. 
The Trojan offense finally clicked in the fourth quarter for an 84-yard touchdown drive. Sophomore quarterback Charles directed the drive, completing seven passes, and passing to halfback Coia for the final 13 yards. He pushed his luck too far on the conversion attempt; the Irish forward wall would not let him get rid of the football as he tried 
to pass. use' s passing 
Statistics  
ND  USC  
Total First Downs  17  9  
Net Yards Rushing  219  97  
Net Yards Passing  147  118  
Passes Attempted  23  38  
Passes Completed  11  10  
Passes Intercepted by ....  2  3  

5  41.0 4 3  84  9 35.0 2 1 40  
of  South  Bend's 

 was puzzling in view of the supposedly bruising Trojan ground game, but sure-tackling defensive demons Clay Schulz and Nick Buoniconti had cut down the Southern California runners and foixed USC to throw in desperation. Notre Dame weath­ered the aerial storm, helped by a few jittery Trojan pass-catchers. As USC coach Don Clark so aptly put it, "We had anticipated it might be necessary to pass, but we did not plan on our receivers drop­ping so many." 
Late in the fourth quarter, a Notre Dame fan in a black surcoat and watchcap, came onto the field to talk things over with the ofiicials. Obviously elated with the score of the game, he glided through the curious USC secondary with half a dozen finest in pursuit. He was finally pulled 
down from behind and escorted from the field, but not before he had chalked up one of the finest broken-field runs of the afternoon. 
The celebrated McKeever twins, Mike and Marlin, seldom made the 48,682 chilled spectators aware of their presence. Mike, perhaps better known than his brother, aggravated an ankle injury and sat out the second half. Marlin played a good defensive game but saw little action on offense due to a broken hand which made pass receiving difficult. However no credit should be taken away from these two boys or the USC squad in general for they wei-e beaten by an inspired Irish eleven. 
The Irish had ended the season on a far brighter note than the pessimists had predicted, giving Coach Kuharich a com­mendable five won, five lost record in his first season at Notre Dame. —Tom Gannon 
Ray Ratkowski stops in his tracks  as Marlin McKeever  cmnes  Sofriimnore fnlllnck Geny Gray b <^ and nmaii^ tm his 35-7aid  
up to talk things over.  Next conference — Nov. 26, 1969.  jaunt that led to the first Irish scan  in the USC game.  
December  4,  1959  3 5  

DR. N. nZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 
• EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
I to 24-Hour Service 
309 South Michigan St. 
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477 
NOTICE 
Award Jackets 
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED 
Special $17.95 • MINKOWS 
303 So. Michigan St. 
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS Home of Adam Hats, Massogic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes. 
"Variety is the spice of life." 
Enjoy 
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS 
• 
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods 
• 
Reasonably Priced 
MARK'S CAFE 
SEN SAI GAI 
134 N. Main St. 

1960 REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU 
all expense vacation tours 
N. D. vs. UNIV. of MIAMI 
AT MIAMI, FLORIDA—NOVEMBER 12, 1960 
9 Day All Expense Tour Leave Nov. 7 & Return Nov. 15 6 Days on the ocean at the 
Seville Hotel Approximate cost is $240.00 Swim in pool or ocean — fish 
golf — dog racing — jai alai 

TOURS DEPART in TWO SECTIONS 
Sec. 1 -—Midwest (Chicago) via IC "City of Miami" 
Sec. 2 -—East (Washington, D.C.) via ACL "Champion" 
ALASKA SUMMER TOUR DELUXE 
18 Day All Expense Tour. Lv. Chicago, Aug. 27—Ret. Sept. 14 
See Jasper and Glacier National Parks — staying at their finest hotels — cruise 10 days on the S.S. Prince George, visiting Alaska's interesting ports — see the Canadian Rockies. 
WRITE NOW FOR DETAILED INFORMATION 
REDDEN TRAVEL DUREAU 
1671 Lincolnway East 
AT 9-8659 South Bend 14, Indiana AT 8-0420 
The Scholastic 

SPORTS PUBLICITY 
In B reen-Phillips hall there is an office which carries on much of the behind-the-scenes work that goes with the football season each year, and continues for the several other vai-sity sports at Noti-e Dame. This office is the Depai-tment of Spoi-ts Publicity, directed by Charles M. Callahan, -'38. 
The office, as its name implies, carries out the job of pub­licizing the Fighting Irish spoi-ts teams throughout the coun­try. Its job does not start and end with the school year but continues the whole year. The yearly cycle can be said to begin in July, \\'1th the preparations for the publication of the "Fighting Irish Football Dope Book," and ends when all the matei-ial — clippings, pictures, etc. — have been filed away from the spring sports season. 
The gz-eater majority of work comes during the football season, when sports writers, radio and TV announcers, from across the nation invade South Bend and Notre Dame to watch the Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Stadium. Callahan must 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN AND HIS STAFF 
see that these men have hotel reservations for the week end, 
The Irish sports publicist is seated at his desk and 
and accommodate them in the press box during the game. He arranges the i-epoi-ters in the 300-seat press box so that the surrounded by the regular members of his hard-working reporters who need wire sei-vice are close to the Western stafF. With Callahan ore: Mary McCarthy, his personal Union operators. He also sees that the radio-TV men have secretary; Ken Murphy (for left) from Meodville, Pa.; Tom 
space for their broadcasts from the press box roof booths. 
Bates, chief assistant and senior from Meodville, Pa.; and (Continued on page 49) Bob Schaefer, assistant from Minneapolis, Minn. 
TRAINER 
GENE PASZKIET 

Gene Paszkiet, head athletic trainer, mends the bumps and braises that Notre Dame football players inevitably pick up. This year Gene was kept especially busy by the avalanche of injuries that fell upon the team. 
Gene is more than a handy man with tape and linament. It takes something of a physician-electrician to use success­fully the diathermy machines, infra-red and ultra-violet lamps and whirlpool baths that are included in Gene's heal­ing equipment. 
Gene has been head trainer at Notre Dame since 1952 when he replaced his former boss, Hugh Burns. He is mar­ried and lives with his wife and two children in South Bend. 
December 4, 1959 
EQUIPMENT 
JACK MCALLISTER 
This year marked the 29th football season that Mac has served as Notre Dame's superintendent of athletic equip­ment. As such he sees to the distribu­tion of equipment and the cleaning and sorting of the paraphenalia that the Irish gi-idders wear on the pi-actice field and for the games. 
The particular need for a good memory arises when Notre Dame takes to the road. For an away game Mac has to make sure seven tranks and foi-ty duffle bags contain everything they should. In them are pants and pads, shoes and socks, light and dark jerseys,^ rain capes, balls, helmets, miles of tape, and often the team's own water supply. 
LIAISON 
DAVE SLATTERY 

Dave is Coach Kuharich's administra­tive assistant. He relieves the coaching staff of many of the administrative tasks that are inevitably associated with a football program of the scope of Notre Dame's. Dave directs the secretarial help needed each fall to keep up with the mountains of con*espondence. 
OiF-season Dave devotes considerable time to public relations work, supplj^g the Notre Dame clubs around the cotm­try with Irish football game films dis­seminating the Notre Dame athletic philosophy whenever he travels. 
Slatiery is well-qualified as a sales­man of the Notre Dame football idea. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1948 and was SCHOLASTIC sports editor. 
SENIOR STARS 
-\  
MONTY STICKLES End  
DON WHITE Quarterback  >  
CAPTAIN KEN ADAMSON Guard  {.  

•;i. 
^! 
JIM GROTTY 
BOB SCHOLTZ 
GEORGE IZO 
Halfback-Fullback 
Center 

it Quarterback 
U 36 
The Scholastic 

1959 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEAM 
««i^ 
i-si^' 

^ '^, --y »rt . .~ 
_-= 91 » 71"^' Sr© U * 56 35? • ^ ; Sgj' ti;s>' 5.3- jr-* 59;^ 7e ^ 9 =,38 >^i 
'"^""^l^ra-^ti^^fc^**; 
3 ' "flB ^' 72 • 55 '57 \ ^A - 83 ^ 5 - S5 ' 74 
*^4 

FIRST ROW: (left to right) Monty Stickles, George Izo, Mike SECOND ROW: (left to right) George Wiffiams, Dan Luecke^ Muehlbauer, Ollie Flor, Bob Scholtz, Capt. Ken Adamson, Jim Bob Scarpitto, Ray Ratkowski, Bill Cfarii, Frank Gaigioloi, Jim Crotty, Pat Heenan, Don White, Al Sabal, Mike Lodish, Henry Colosuno, Dick Ciesielski, Tom Rini, Ed Nebel, Dick Roth, John (Rusty) Wilke. Castin, Tom Monahan, Rich Boyle. 
THIRD ROW: (left to right) Jim Mikacich, Charles Augustine, FOURTH ROW: (left to right) Les Traver, Mike Magnotta, Bill I Max Bumell, Tom Liggio, Bob Koreck, John Linehan, Bob Pietr-Clements, George Haffner, JtAta Powers, Gene Vida, Mike I zak, Jim Kane, Tom Jorling, Bob Bill, Nick Buoniconti, Joe Carol-Giacinto, Jim Loula, Dick Naab, Tmn Hecmnovich, Gerry Gray, [ lo. Bob Hinds, Angelo Dabiero, George Sefcik. Ted Zmarzly, Roger Wilke, Clay Schulz, Joe PerkowskL 
I FIFTH ROW: (left to right) Pete Sayour (mgr.), Ed Kfoury INSERTS: (left to right) Myron Pottins, Pat Healy, Norb Roy, I (mgr.). Bill Ford, Don Candido, Frank Grau, Dick O'Leary, Bill Pat Doyle, Bill Mack. I Snyder, Bill Killilea (mgr.). 
17 SENIORS FINISH IRISH GRID CAREER 
Seventeen seniors played their final California tussle. He starred on defense injured and played good ball in every game for Notre Dame against Southern in the upset victories over Iowa and game. He was one of the heroes of the California last Saturday. It was fitting Southern California. Jim gave the Irish USC win with his aggressive play. and proper -that these sturdy young men 100% at all times on the field and will Al Sabal and Mike Muehlbauer were should close out their college' careers be missed next year, both for his fine two steady performers at guard. Sabal in a blaze of glory provided by the stir­defensive efforts and his fighting spirit. started four games and gave the Irish ring 16-6 upset win over the highly re­experienced linebacking. Muehlbauer garded Men of Troy. Quarterbacks Gone. Don White and was a capable relief man for Adamson. 
George Izo shouldered most of the When Bob Bill was injured, Dick Team Leader. Leading the retiring quarterback burden this year. These two "Choo-Choo" Ciesielsld was called on to seniors is the player who led them on the seniors gave the Irish good strength at replace him and did a very commend­field all during the year. We speak here the vital quarterback slot. White led able job. The native South Bender dis­of Notre Dame's fine captain of 1959, the Irish in wins over North Carolina tinguished himself in the Northwestern 
Ken Adamson. Ken was an inspiration and Navy and Izo filled the same capa­game with his fine play. to his teammates with his gritty play city in the stirring wins over Iowa and and never-say-die attitude. He will be use . Finding adequate replacement for Gnderella Man. Pat Heenan, Kusty 
a hard man to replace. these two signal callers will be one of Wilke and Mike Lodish were three the major problems for the Irish next senior ends who played fine ball for the 
Another major graduation loss is 
year. Irish. Heenan was the "Cinderella Man" the celebi-ated Irish wingman, Monty Bob Scholtz led the Irish in tackles who made the jump from interhall to the Stickles. Monty thrilled the fans with 83, one more than Captain Adam­first string of the varsity. Both Wilke throughout the year with his fine all-son. "Big Bob" was a standout for the and Lodish gave good accounts of them­around play and also booted three field Irish for three years and his steady selves in the games they played in. 
goals, one of which beat Navy in the Pat Doyle, Jim Colosimo, Tom Kini 
play was one of the features of the sea­
final 32 seconds. He showed his running 
son just completed. He enjoyed his finest and Ed Nebel saw only spot action hot ability in the USC game, executing the game against the Wildcats of North­each played with the determination that end-around play with great skill. western. marks a Notre Dame player. 
Jim Crotty returned to the Irish line­A player who was a pleasant surprise To all of these seniors we extend.oar 
up against Pittsburgh after being out this year was Ollie Flor. He took over appreciation for four fine years of good of action with an injury suffered in the the left tackle spot when Joe CaroUo was hard football here at Notre Dame. 
J7 

December 4, 1959 
Left to Right: Don Doll, Backfield Coach; Hugh Devore, Freshman Coach; Bill Daddio, Assistant Coach; Dick Evans, Line Coach; Dick Stanfei, Assistant Line Coach; Joe Scudero, Assistant Backfield Coach; Joe Kuharich, Head Coach. 
Notre Dame Coaches 
Most descriptions of a coaching staff start with the head coach perfunctorily. A description of the new Notre Dame 
coaching staff must begin with Head Coach Joe Kuharich for a different reason. He is the focal point aroimd which the en­tire staff revolves. 
If there is any­thing that the mem­bers of the staff have in common, it is com-
Kuharich plete confidence in the 
coaching ability and knowledge possessed by Coach Kuharich. The new members of the staff (all are new except Hugh Devore, holdover fresh­man coach) all came to Notre Dame primarily to work mth and under the man Frank Gifford of the professional New York Giants last May called "the greatest coaching genius in football to­day." 
With him to Notre Dame Coach Ku­harich brings a varied coaching back-

by TED THOMPSON 
ground in both college and professional ranks. His most significant college coaching achievement is his undefeated ten-game season at the University of San Francisco in 1951. This team, composed entirely of San Francisco area boys other schools had rejected, has fur­nished a number of stars to the pros. 
Following his undefeated season at USF, he joined the staff of the Cards in 1952, was out of football officially in 1953 and became line coach of the Wash­ington Redskins in 1954. In late August of the same year he was named head coach and sei-ved there until he accepted the Notre Dame position last winter. 
His was the only team in the National Football League to use an unbalanced line with the straight "T" offense. He plans to install that same offense here after a few years. Just as it took the Redskins three years to adjust to such an offense, it will take about three years for Notre Dame to learn Coach Ku-harich's offense. In the meantime he plans to employ the balanced line. 
At Noti'e Dame Coach Kuhai'ich has had a well-conditioned, hard-hitting, proud, and clean and well-dressed team. He has always insisted on conditioning. He says, "If a team can't run, it can't win." Although he is supposed to be a strict disciplinarian, his players at the Redskins had tremendous affection for him. His players respected and liked his leadership. A big man, he was always a gentle man. The four Redskin players who were in the team's office when the announcement of his acceptance of the position at Notre Dame was made came as close to crying as grown men do. 
Coach Kuharich runs very tight prac­tice sessions. He knows what he wants to accomplish before he sets foot on the practice field. His fantastic eyesight enables him to stand at one point on the practice field and observe minute details at both ends of the field. From his position he barks corrections when he observes mistakes, but during both prac­tice sessions and during games he shows very little emotion except pacing con­stantly up and down the sidelines. He 
The Scholastic 

is, however, actually a very emotional coach. 
Imbedded in his coaching theories is a firm belief in foi-mal yet close contact with his players. He tries to have some personal contact with all his players. As an example of this, one need only point to the fact that he called in for personal intei-views all of the 104 play­ers, invited to participate for spring practice, before the players left school for the summer. 
A capsule of Coach Kuharich's coach­ing beliefs would show that he is a product of two of the three great coach­ing ei-as, Knute Rockne of Notre Dame and Jock Sutherland of Pittsburgh. The third was Pop Warner. While he places important stress on physical condition­ing, he realizes that his teams must also be mentally and emotionally prepai'ed. 
There is definitely a "Kuharich play­er." He must be well-dressed, Avell­spoken, well-conditioned, and hard-hit­ting. He must have the confidence in his coach that his coach has in him and must be willing to work to attain the state of preparedness that Coach Kuharich demands. 
It is only fitting that Bill Daddio, who is in charge of the ends, is Coach Kuharich's first assistant because it is he who possibly gave up the most to join Coach Kuharich here. Daddio was secure at Purdue and was happy in his job there. A number of the people down there, who knew that he was a good friend of Coach Kuharich, felt that Daddio 
Daddio 

would stay on at Purdue anyway. 
But they were wrong. Daddio felt so strong a desire to work with Coach Kuharich that he decided to make the switch and come to Notre Dame. 
Daddio is the only member of the new staff besides Kuharich to have previous experience as head coach of a four-year college. He was head mentor of Al­legheny College in his home town of Meadville, Pa., from 1947 through 1951. Following his stay at Allegheny, he joined Coach Kuharich and the Chicago Cardinals as line coach for the 1952 season. After scouting for the Pitts­burgh Steelers the next fall, he joined the Purdue staff in the spring of 1954. 
He followed his graduation from Pitts­burgh in 1939 by coaching at Pitt for two years befoi*e trying his hand at pro ball with the Cardinals during the '41 and '42 seasons. Four years in the Navy then preceded his taking of the position at Allegheny. 
One of his highest ambitions outside of the football realm is to annex the South Bend city golf championship to his list of link achievements. While at Allegheny he was the golf coach as well as the football coach and was city cham­pion of Meadville during part of the time. While at Purdue he also became city champ of Lafayette. Daddio was a golf pro for five years, the five years at 
December 4, 1959 
Allegheny, but has regained his amateur status. 
Line coach Dick Evans has more coaching experience than any member of the varsity staff with 14 years of coach­
ing behind him. He is the only member of the staff to accom­pany Coach Kuharich to Notre Dame from the Redskins. 
Evans would like to stay with football and coaching and especi­ally with Kidiarich. He says that one of the things he likes 
Evans 

most about Coach Kuharich is that you work ^vith Coach Kuharich and not for him. 
Evans will handle the line, partic­ularly the tackles. In remarking about the difference between coaching in col­lege and in the pros, he said that the pros were of course much more advanced in football knowledge and had more ex­perience. Here he will spend much more time on fundamentals. In college coaches have to go back to the basic aspects of the game and spend much more time on fundamentals. He also commented on the lack of experience among college football players as a main influence on coaching techniques and emphasis. 
Inasmuch as he handled the phones in the press box for Washington, it is likely that he will do the same thing here. This requires a knowledge of the entire team, not just the line, and demands more than a passing acquaintance with each of the opponents. 
His family which consists of his wife and three children comprise his most important extra-curricular activity. 
Dick Stanfel, former All-Pro guard at Detz-oit, is the proverbial "strong, silent type." A big man, Stanfel is somewhat 
reserved at first but loves to talk with his friends, one of the best of whom is Joe Scudero, flashy assist­ant backfield coach. 
Stanfel was recent­ly elected to the USP Hall of Fame and was also designated a s th e outstanding guard in the school's 
Stanfel 

history. He was also picked by his teammates as the most valuable player on the 1954 world cham­pionship Detroit Lion team. 
Stanfel compares coaching to playing (he just finished his seventh year in the-NFL with Detroit and Washington) this way: "It is much easier to play than to coach. When'you're playing, you only have one man to woriy about and that's yourself. When you're coaching, you have many men to be concerned about. Also coaching takes much more time than playing ever did. I've found that out already." 
Stanfel is here to study under Coach Kuharich as well as to work under him. The All-Pro lineman regards his new boss as one of the best teachers in coach­ing today. Stanfel likens coaching under Coach Kuharich to sitting in a class­room, "some of it is bound to rub off." 
Don Doll, the new backfield coach, is immediately noted for setting up the pass defense that halted George Izo in 
__ .  _.  .. the ND-USC last No­ 
vember  while  work­ 
ing  with  the  back­ 
field at  S  outher n  
California.  
Previous to his ten­ 
ure  at  Southern  Cal,  
he sei-ved as  backfield  
coach  at  the  Univer­ 
sity of Washington in  
1955 and handled  the  
DoU  head  coaching  duties  
at West  Centi-al Costa  

Jimior College the following fall. 
He has moved around quite a bit since his start in pro ball in the 1949 season. Four of the six years he played in the NFL, with Detroit, Washington, and Los Angeles; he gained All-League honors as defensive back. Then he coached at three different schools for three years until he signed on at Notre Dame last winter. 
He finds it hard to move around from one place to another so much. He said that he wants to be able to stay in an area long enough to be a part of it. 
The flashiest and liveliest member of the new staff is Joe "Scooter" Scudero, 28-year old combination football coach-
actor. 
Scudero, who pran­ces around in his fier y Thunderbird, played with Stanfel, his close friend, under Coach Kuharich on USF's fine teams in 1949, '50 and '51. 
This is his first at­tempt at coaching. His last seven years Scudero 

have been spent in pro ball, one with Detroit, one with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian League and the last five with the Red­skins. 
His co-occupation is the theater. Having graduated from USF with a dramatic arts majoi', he has appeared in a number of the popular TV westerns and in some movies, usually as a "bad guy." He hopes, among other things, to outgrow this particular type of role and to be recognized by Hollywood as a more versatile actor. 
It may seem that tiying to remain active in the theater and in coaching at the same time would be too demanding, but Scudero will be able to handle the combination if his performance during his final semester is any indication of his detennination. 
Having saved seven courses, including four history and two political science courses, for his final semester because of football, he had classes all morning from eight to twelve, he was out for track in the afternoon, from seven in the evening imtil midnight he worked on the theater, in plays, etc., he slept from midnight until four in the morning at which time he got up and studied until time for his first class. 
Fiid 1939 ton M^ 
TEAM KICKOFFS RETURNED PUNTS RETURNED 
No. Yds. TD No. Yds. Avg.
Notre Dame Opponents 
171 Points Scored 180 Scarpitto 12 247 0 Sefcik 10 138 13.8 141 First Downs 137 Sefcik 7 140 0 Scarpitto 7 118 16.9 84 by Rushing 92 Mack „ 5 98 0 Ratkowski 6 52 8.7 53 by Passing 36 Dabiero 4 70 0 Dabiero 4 27 6.8 4 by Penalties 9 Ratkowski 2 43 0 Traver 1 20 20.0 16 5.3 
1352 Yards Rushing 1685 Gray 2 39 0 Mack 3 458 Times Carried 452 Perkowski 2 38 0 White 2 8 4.0 
3.0 Yards-per-tiy 3.7 Crotty 2 36 0 Stickles 1 2 2.0 Clark 1 0 0.0 
1431 Yards Passing 987 Heenan 1 26 0 0 0.0 
204 Passes Attempted 165 Williams 1 7 0 Haffner 1 91 Passes Completed 65 Clark 1 5 0 .446 Completion Percentage 394 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
RUSHING 

13 Passes Intercepted by 19 
TC. Yds. Avg. Opponents Fumbles Recovered 
187 Yards Int. Returned 291 
2783 TOTAL OFFENSE 2672 Gray 50 256 5.1 Adamson 4; Heenan and Scholtz 59 Punts 62 Sefcik 43 206 4.8 3; Sefcik and Ti-aver 2; Roy, Pow­2186 -.. Total Yards 2139 Scarpitto 59 199 3.8 ers, Pietrzak, Schulz, H. Wilke and 
37.0 Average 34.5 Crotty 62 184 3.0 Stickles 1. Perkowski 53 3.1 
381 Yards Punts Retui-ned 348 164 3.3 
36 Fumbles 39 Dabiero 36 118 Tackles Ratkowski 26 108 4.2 
21 Ball Lost 20 Scholtz 83; Adamson 82; Buoni-
Mack 32 86 2.7 
conti 67; Stickles 52; Schulz 46; 
Gargiulo 14 64 4.6 
Flor 39; Sabal 37; Traver and 
Stickles 4 27 6.9 
Scarpitto 33; Crotty 29; Heenan 
PASSES CAUGHT 

Naab ... 3 26 8.7 
and Bill 28; Pottios 24; Gray 23; 
Doyle ... 10 20 2.0 
Number Yards TD Sefcik and CoroUo 22; White and 
Schulz . 1 15 15.0 
Scarpitto 15 297 4 Muehlbauer 21; Ratkowski and 
Healy ... 1 14 14.0 
Heenan 12 198 1 Williams 18; Haffner 14; Ciesiel-
Clark ... 7 13 1.9 
Stickles 11 235 2 ski and Dabiero 13; Hecomovitch, 
Rini 1 0 0.0 
Sefcik 11 203 2 H. Wilke, Mack and Perkowski 
Izo 6 -28 -4.6 
Traver 8 142 1 12; Pietrzak and Bumell 9; Clark 
HaflFner 8 -52 -6.5 
Crotty -8 104 0 6; Lodish 5; Powers and Naab 4; 
White 42 -68 -1.6 
Gray 8 56 0 Roy, Doyle and Gargiulo 3; Mag-Dabiero 6 64 0 notta and Colosimo 2; Koreck, 
PASS INTERCEPTIONS 
Lodish 3 26 0 Nebel, Healy, Mikacich, Augu­
No. Yds. TD 
H. Wilke 2 27 0 stine and Izo 1. 
White 3 39 0
Mack 2 24 0 
Sefcik 3 35 0 
Colosimo 2 23 0 
Scarpitto 1 48 1 
Passes Broken Up 

Perkowski 2 12 0 
Ratkowski 1 43 1 Bumell 1 20 0 Sefcik 4; Sabal and Scarpitto 
Schulz 1 13 0 3; Schulz, Ratkowski, Flor and 
Crotty 1 6 0 Stickles 2; White, Mack, Buoni-
Perkowski 2 3 0 conti, Colosimo, Perkowski, Adam­
SCORING Hecomovitch 1 0 0 son, Traver, CoroUo, Scholtz, Gray, 
TD PAT SAF FG Pts. PUNTING 
Lodish and Heenan 1. Scarpitto -.... 8 0 0 0 48 No. Yds. Avg. Stickles ... 2 16 0 3 37 Sefcik ' 25 937 37.4 
Blocked Kicks 

Crotty 3 0 0 0 18 Scarpitto . 32 1189 37.2 Sefcik 3 0 0 0 18 White 2 60 30.0 Stickles , Traver and Doyle 1. Gray 3 0 0 0 18 
PASSING 

White 12 0 0 8 ! Batkowski 1 l(pass)o 0 8 Att, Camp. Hadint . Yds. TD Pet. Heenan 10 0 0 6 Izo 95 44 13 661 6 .463 Traver 10 0 0 6 White 87 39 6 653 3 .448 Team 0 0 2 0 4 Haffner 22 8 0 117 1 .364 
40 The Scholastic 
QoGcUu' WeeJk 

i I 
From Monday To Sunday 
.>-' I» 
By JAY KILROY 
Football coaching at Notre Dame is a profession that does not enjoy the eight hour day, especially during the regular season. For it is then that Coach Joe Kuharich and his staif of assistants have more than enough work to do. Yet, they will be the fii-st to admit that irregular working hours are the price of success. 
Scudero scouts. The coach's week begins early Monday morning. Assist­ant coach Joe Scudero reports to the office about 7:30 to prepare the scouting reports for the next week's opponent. He has seen this opponent play the pre­ceding Saturday and the reports are usually thirteen or fourteen pages in length. While this scouting report is being prepared, the other coaches are meeting with Kuharich to discuss such 

•;i 
things as personnel and basic offensive and defensive patterns. This discussion also includes movies of one of the op­ponent's games during which Kuharich points out their basic formations. The coaches return from lunch,about 1:30 and at that time Coach Kiiharich points out to his assistants specific details and changes. He might also introduce a new defensive pattern to be used. 
Freshman scrimmage. The Mon­day afternoon practice begins at 4:00. The players who have played in the game on the preceding Saturday have a short workout which lasts about an hour. During this period they work out the kinks and adjust themselves to the prac­tice sessions ahead. The players who did not participate in the Saturday game scrimmage the freshmen. This scrim­mage is controlled, one team running the offensive pattern while the other prac­tices its defense. 
Coach Kuharich has a meeting with his squad on Monday evening at 8:00 
p.m. It is at this time that he' hands 

^i out the scouting reports to the players, adding to these reports with a diagram session and a lecture. In this meeting Kuharich also points out all of the de­fenses the Irish will use in the next 
IRISH MENTORS DISCUSS STRATEGY Stonfel, Kuharich and Doll confer during Tech game. 
game. The meeting usually ends at 
9:30. 
On Tuesday morning the coaches con­tinue their study of such details as of­fensive and defensive patterns, also dis­cussing personnel changes for the rest of the week. It is at this time that Dave Slattery, Kuharich's administra­tiye assistant, prepares the injury re­port, one of his many functions as Ku­harich's aid. 
The Tuesday afternoon session con­sists of a light scrimmage in which the first team defends against the opponent's plays. Meanwhile the second and third teams alternate on offense in a dummy, scrimmage. The teams are rotated throughout the afternoon. The Tuesday night meeting begins at 7:30. Here the players see films of the opponent and learn their assignments for the next game. 
High school movies. The Wednes­day morning coaches' meeting begins at nine. At this time Kuharich reviews with his assistants the details of the preceding two days. Changes in lineup are also mentioned and several new offensive plays may be added. It is on Wednesday morning that the assistant coaches also review movies of high school prospects wishing to attend Notre Dame. In the Wednesday afternoon sessions, the coaches stress defense, prin­cipally with the first and second units. There is no night meeting. 
Persoimel changes are of first im­portance on Thursday morning. Here, the assistant coaches mention the play­ers showing the most improvement on the third, fourth and fifth teams. Slat­tery, meanwhile, is preparing the dress­ing list and making all of the arrange­ments for uniforms and equipment. 
whether home or away. He also takes care of last minute preparations such as charter flights or speaking engage­ments which he makes while on trips. 
Viators* cloy. Much of Friday morning's time is occupied by hig^ school players and other visitors who are welcomed mainly by Slattery. Once more the coaches review movies of the opponent and in the Friday afternoon session, they again point out all of the defensive assignments to the players. 
At least two of the coaches accompany the team to the rally on Friday night. Meeting with the players after the rally, Kuharich and his assistants again lec­ture on individual assignments and also answer any questions which arise. At this time, the quarterbacks are given a card with forty plays which should be used most successfully against the op­ponents. After the meeting, Kuharidi accompanies the team to a movie. 
The coaches and the team attend Mass together on Saturday morning, followed by a light breakfast. The remainder of the morning is spent in leisure. The coaches may take care of any last minute preparations while the players are being taped and dressed. Kuharich makes sure that all of the uniforms fit to perfection, pointing out that the Irish have always been one of the nation's "best dressed teams." 
After-game huddle. After the baD game, the entire staff meets at Ko* harich's home to see the game movies. On Sunday there is a meeting with the players. Her^ the player's are briefed on the n^ct opponent. At the conclusion of tlds iSunday meeting, the coaches seven-day week comes to an end, bat only to begin again on Monday. 
December 4, 1959 
Managers Play Vital Role in the Football Operation 
Throughout the football season here at Notre Dame, the job of the Irish football managers is seldom considered by the average spectator. Yet these "un­sung heroes" are a vital part of the football operation at Notre Dame. 
Student Control 

Here at Notre Dame, we have one of the most unique managers' organizations in the country. It is one of the few that is completely student run. The mana­gers are selected neither by the coaches nor the administration, and all business is carried on Avithin the organization itself. 
Killilea Head Manager 
This year's head football manager is Bill Killilea, a senior in the College of Conmierce from San Mateo, Cal. Killilea was elected to this position last spring. Selected as his assistants were seniors Ed Kfoury of Andover, Mass., and Pete Sayour of Brooklyn, N. Y. These three men took over their football managerial positions dui-ing spring practice last year. 
As head football manager, Killilea's job is one of supervision. In this capa­city he must take care of all the de­manding situations that arise. He is 
also the man with whom the coaches 
confer. And in general, he directs and 
supervises the activities of the under­
classmen football managers. 
Kfoury is in charge of office and personnel. His job includes making az'­rangements for late dining hall meals, taking care of class cuts and other similar functions. Sayour is in charge of equipment, making sure that all of the unifonns are accounted for and everything is in orderly condition. 
Throughout the years, it has been the tradition that the senior managers estab­lish a set routine which is carried out by the freshman, sophomore and junior managers. There are three junior mana­gers. However, each week their job changes. For a week, one may be in chai-ge of the stadium, one takes care of the practice field while the third junior goes on the trips with the team. The junior that ti'avels with the team must take care of accommodations and see that the meals, checks, tips and things of that nature are accounted for. 
30 Freshman Managers 
There are about thirty freshman managers and fifteen sophomore mana­gers. However, this group is cut down to a total of nine by the junior year, three of them being the football mana­gers. The freshman and sophomore group is primarily the laboring group. They must be present at the practices and be sure that all of the necessary equipment is there, if needed. They also see to the cleaning and storing of the articles needed for the practice sessions. 
Killilea, as the head senior football manager, is generally considered to have the top manager job on campus. Pre­siding over meetings which are held about every two weeks, he discusses with the other senior managers the policies which should be carried out and also any new business which might have been pi'esented by any one of the eight other senior managers. Meetings are also held before each home game. 
The senior football managers will hold their positions until right before spring practice. At this time they will get to­gether with the six other senior mana­gers and elect the senior managers for the coming season, including the head football manager. All of these newly elected seniors receive either a full or partial scholarship for their final year. 
Holy Cross Brothers 
TEACHING, YOUTH WORK, 
farming, clerical work done 
by Brothers are in great need 
today in the US and foreiqn 
For information and literature write: 
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C. 
11 Dujorie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE 
All Outside Rooms Completely Air-Condifioned Indiana's Newest and Finest 
92 Rooms • 92 Bafhs 
•
 TERRACE DINING ROOM • CIRCULATING ICE WATER 

•
 PRIVATE FUNaiON ROOMS • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM 

•
 BEAUTIFUL PATIO • GOLF PRIVILEGES • lARGE PARKING AREA 


JJeliclous ^ooa Jjeliqalful CDrittIa 
Excellent fadlilies for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
Prompt Attention WUl Be Given Your Reservation Request Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends. 
OpenrtMl by UNIVBtSITY of NOTRE DAME ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager 
The Scholastic 

The Huddle 
i^ 
Best Wishes to 1959 Notre Dame Football Squad 
• • • • STOP at the HUDDLE , • • • for that little snack between classes 
THE CLASS of 1962 
Expresses its best wishes to the 
1959 FIGHTING IRISH 
Lyons - Morrissey - Gavanaugh - Zahm 
Notre Dame 
HUGH DEVORE 

Former head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles now works to ready freshman gridders for the rugged varsity competition. 
JOHN MURPHY South Bend native ond very successful and popular coach assists Oevore in supervising the development of the Notre Danie frosh. 
by BILL CARY 
The 1959 freshman football team of the University of Notre Dame was under the able guidance and tutelage of head freshman coach Hugh Devore and his popular assistant, Johnny Murphy. The frosh assembled on September 14 to start their indoctrination into college football. They were good students, eager to absorb as much knowledge as possible in the short time alloted for practice. How well they learned their lessons can only be ascei-tained from their performances in the next few years of varsity competition. 
Dedicated Men. Head frosh mentor Devore coached the yearling backfield while Coach Murphy tutored the linemen. These men probably never will receive the full credit they de­sei-ve for their tii'eless efforts in teaching the freshman. The freshman year for the college football player is a very im­portant one. The transition from high school ball to the college game is an extremely difficult one for most freshmen. Thus one can easily see the need for top-flight freshman coach­ing. Notre Dame is indeed fortunate in having two dedicated men such as coaches Devore and Murphy. As head Irish tac­tician Joe Kuharich has said, "I can think of no man better suited to teach fi-eshmen the game of football than Hugh Devore." The same goes for John Mui-phy. 
Blocidng and Tackling. The frosh drilled endlessly on such fundamental things as blocking and tackling. Many a winning coach has stated that all good football is built on the strong foundation of good, crisp blocking and tackling. The linemen sharpened up by pushing the blocking sled all over Cartier Field. They learned such things as proper means. of pursuit on plays away from them and how to block for the passer. The backs sharpened their offensive arsenal in passing drills, plus the usual drills in hard running and cut­ting. Some times the progfress was noticeable; at other times it was agonizingly slow. The important thing is that the frosh didn't lose faith in the coaches and more important, they didn't lose faith in their own ability. 
Monday Scrimmage. The highlight of each week was the scrimmage on Monday with the varsity reserves. The players who saw extensive action in the varsity game of the preced­ing Saturday were usually given the day off after a short workout. Then the fun b^r^n as the freshmen and varsity reserves banged away at each other with no holds barred. 
In some of these sessions the frosh would be on defense for the entire workout. At other times they played both of­fense and defense. Regardless of the situation, the frosh always gave a good account of themselves. They played with a real zeal and enthusiasm for contact. Thus they showed that they have what it takes to be a football player truly repre­sentative of Notre Dame. 
The frosh have their share of boys who should give a good account of themselves in their upcoming varsity careers. Both the backfield and line boasts prospects who look like real fine football players. 
Good Quorteifoocks. The important quarterback slot has four outstanding prospects. Daryle Lamonica, Ed Rutkowsld, Eddie Eck and Norb Rasher rate special consideration here. Lamonica, a 6-2, 205-XK>under from Clovis, Calif., is the best passer of the bunch. Rutkowsld, from Kingston, Pa., measures 6-1, 195. He is rated the best runner of the freshmen signal callers. E]ck, 5-11, 165, is from Richmond, Va. Rasher is 6-1, 180 and played his high school ball at Cathedral Latin in Cleveland. 
Two fullbacks stood out for the yearlings. Ron Tocchini and Ron Crawford both are powerful runners who also block well. Thus they fulfill the requirements for a good fullback in the Notre Dame syston of attack. Tocchini is from San Francisco where he prepped at St. Ignatius High. He stands 6-1, 212. Crawford is a 6-3, 225-pound physical specimen from Pana, 111. 
Unsung Heroes. The unsung heroes of any team deserve mention here along with the backs. These unsimg heroes are. 
The Scholastic 

Yearlings 
of course, the linemen who make possi­ble the fine runs of the backs. The f rosh linemen this year are big, fast and nigged. Most important they thrive on hard work and body contact. 
Remember the names of Oldenick, Sweeney, Burke, Kutzavitch, Sherlock, Seller, Murphy. These boys, barring mishap, should distinguish themselves on the gridiron in the next few years. 
Ken Oldenick is a big, raw-boned boy from Cincinnati Purcell High. He tips the scales at 235 and stands 6-3. He is a tackle. Chuck Sweeney, a bur'ly guard is 6-2, 225 from Oneonta, N.Y. He is a good blocker and a real hard nose on defense. 
Ed Burke, 6-1, 230, and Bill Kutza­vitch, 6-2, 205, are the frosh centers. Both of these lads are 17 years old. Burke is from Mendel High in Chicago and Kutzavitch calls Moon Run, Pa., home. 
Jim Sherlock, Leo Seller and Denny Murphy are three i-anking ends on the plebe squad. Sherlock is from Mount Carmel High in Chicago, a school that has contributed many standouts to the Irish. Sherlock is 6-0, 200, and a high school teammate of Irish quai"terback George Haffner. Seller is from Wichita, Kansas, where he attended Kapaun High. He has good hands to go with an impressive 6-3, 235-pound frame. Mur­phy is the son of Coach Murphy and is a hometown product from South Bend Adams. He is 18 years old, 6-2, 200 pounds. 
18 States Represented. The coaches did a thorough and extensive job in their recruiting efFoi-ts this year. Proof of this can be seen by the fact that eighteen states are represented on the freshman roster. 
Pennsylvania, as usual, has the great­est representation of any of the states with eleven players from the coal min­ing state. Illinois is a sui-prising second 
"with ten players. Ohio, like Pennsylva­nia, one of the best recruiting grounds, is tied with California for third place with seven boys each. 
New Jersey and Kansas are far down the line tied for fourth place with three each. Five states are represented by two playere each. They ai-e New York, Massachusetts, Indiana, Kentucky and Florida. Washington, Georgia, Mary­land, Virginia, Texas, Missouri and Iowa number one combatant each. 
Coach Devore says that the freshman are "an average to good football team." He turned out the fine sophomores who have helped the injury-riddled varsity this year. As stated previously, an ac­curate estimate of the 1959 "Raiders" cannot be made because of the many unknown quantities present. Only time will tell. 
December 4, 1959 
M8I 

QaCaaiifQS 
MvSlnihsn 

(Atdhor of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf', "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.) 
AMERICAN LITERATURE: ITS CAUSE AND CURE 
Today, as a service to students of Amer­ican literature, this column presents di­gests of two classic American novels: 
THE SCARLET LETTER by Nathaniel "Stcifty" Hawthorne 
This is a heart-rending story of a humble New England lass named Hester Pryime who is so poor that she does not have what to eat nor a roof to cover her head. But she is a brave, brawny girl and she never complains, and by and by her patience is rewarded: in the summer of 1859 she wins a football scholarship to Alabama. 
Hard-working Hester soon wins her letter and everyone says she is a shoo-in for All-Conference honors, but along comes the War Between the States and football, alas, is dropped for the duration. 
Poor Hester goes back to New England. It is a bitter cold winter and poor Hester, alas, does not have any warm clothing except for her football sweater from Alabama, but that, alas, has a big scarlet "A" on the front of it and she can hardly wear such a thing in New England where Union sentiment runs so high. 
Well sir, one Christmas the March girls get an invitation to a ball. They are dying to go because they never have any fun at all except maybe a few chuckles during the hog-rendering season. But Beth re­minds her sisters that they can hardly go traipsing off to a ball and leave poor Marmee all alone at Christmas time. The sisters swear a lot, but they finally agree with Beth. 
Marmee, however, will not hear of it. "Land's sakes, little women!" she cries. "You must go to the baU and have some fun. There will be fruit punch and Toll House cookies and Early American sand­wiches. Best of all, there will be morris dancing. Oh, how your father and I used to love that!" 
"I never knew father could dance," cries Meg. "Oh yeah?" cries Marmee. "You should have seen Philip morris." 
Poor Hester, alas, freezes 
^troaeimQiefi^m^Mca^^cdbm
to death. 
LITTLE WOMEN by Louisa May "Bubbles" Alcott 
The Marches are a very happy family— and for no discernible reason. They are poor as snakes; they work from cock­crow to evensong; their dear old father Philip is away with the Union armies; and they can't do a thing with their hair. 
Still, nothing can dampen the spirits of madcap Meg, jocular Jo, buoyant Beth, animated Amy, and crazy old Marmee, as the merry March ^I s laughingly call their lovable mother. 
"Was Philip a good morriser?" cries Jo. 

"The best!" cries Marmee. "Philip could morris in soft pack or flip-top box and was full of fine, fresh, natural mild­ness!" 
The girls are cheered to hear this and go to the ball. Marmee stays home alone, but soon gets a wonderful surprise: Philip comes back from the war! 
When the giris return from the baU, they find Marmee and Philip morrising, and they cry "Huzzah!" and throw their poke bonnets in the air, where they are to this day. ® ISSSMaxSlmlmu 
And speaking of literature, in our book the beet aeleetion of cigarettes on the market today come* from Philip Morri* Inc:—Marlboro filters; rtewAU»ine^ high fUtmtiim mnd light' menthol—and, of course, mild, unfUtered Philip Morris. 
4S 
DIAMONDS JEWELRY 
J. TRETHEWEY 
For: Hamilton - Elgin BuIoTQ - Longines and Wittnauer Watches 
See: JOE, THE JEWELER 
104 N. Main St. JJyLS. BIdg. 
TWO LEGS INC. 
Specializing in 
IVY STYLES 
SLAX — SWEATERS 
SPORT SHIRTS and JACKETS 
118 South Michigan Street 
^hnw<kh(Li 
HOTEL 
120 W 45+h St • 
JUdson 2-4200 
lyrytilag ••w for your 
^UtHpttnWf IMWIOOIM " ^ 
ckdiMO 4iir-coRdifloning. 9mA m Tdmiion m •vtry 
2 M ffOOIII 
DAVD MB1BIMAN 
^- -bsarld 
NEW YORK 

SURVEY of INJURIES 
If the 1959 football season was a year of anything for Coach Kuharich and his players, it was a year of injuries. No fewer than 28 players were knocked out of action for at least one game with eight of these casualties being lost for the season. 
Defensive Leader Lost. The biggest loss, of course, was that of Myron (Moe) Pottios who tore the ligaments in his knee in the California game and had to undergo an operation and remain out of action the rest of the year. Pottios was the anchor of the Irish defense and a real hard-nosed competitor who in­spired his teammates and made tackles all over the field. His loss was a stun­ning blow. 
Dan Gr-iffith, a junior fullback who had looked impressive in spring practice, broke his ankle on September 6 just after fall practice had started and this sidelined him for the remainder of the season. 
Luck of the Irish? The most extra­ordinary event of the year as far as injuries wei'e concerned was the events that took place on September 9. On this day both George Izo, a preseason AU-Ameiican quarterback and one of the best passers ever to play at Notre Dame, and Bill (Red) Mack, also a preseason AU-American and a smooth, low-slung, deceptively hard-hitting run­ner, severely twisted their knees. The ironic thing about this was that neither injury was caused by contact. Although Izo and Mack returned to action by the California game, they never did regain the physical efficiency necessary for top­notch perfoiinance. Izo, who noticeably favored his knee much of the season, was oif-fonn in his passing most of the year and logged very little playing time. As late as the Greorgia Tech game Coach Kuharich called him only 60% effective. Mack never did regain his old form and seemed to be unable to cut sharply and change directions quickly after his injury. 
Seven Fullbacks. The fullback posi­tion was hit the hardest by injuries. No less than seven players filled this spot in the line-up at one time or another during the season. 
Dan Griffith was battling for a first-string berth when he broke his ankle. Then Jim Crotty switched over from halfback and looked real good for the Irish against North Carolina and Purdue. But against California he sprained his ankle. Gerry Gray, a sopho­more with a stand-up style of running, took over the fuUbacking duties in the MSU game and came up with a top-grade performance. But he twisted his knee the next week against Northwestern and was out until the Iowa game. Frank Gargiulo, who had been spelling Gray, was next to fall. He suffered a bruised thigh muscle against the Spartans also. 
Three other players, Joe Perkowski, Dick Naab and Pat Doyle, also per­formed the fuUlracking duties at one 
(Continued on page 48) 
NANS/^INTZSCH 
WE CAN SOLVE YOUR GIFT PROBLEM 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX Phone CE 2-5881 

Have 0 worn of mi 
TmnlmttiVfA 
Unbelievable low Cost 
Europe 
I'M. $675 
Ormt 
4Z^0en.iSL 
$998 
Many rewr* incfwrf* tallf trtdil. 
Alto lew<eM Iripi fe Mmke 
$1«» up. South AHMrico S69» up, 
Howoii Study Tour $5«lup and 
Around tho World $i m up. 
*'•'•• ' Aik Your Tr««ol Agwit 
$*WMk Oknt 4. U MSS7 

The Seholastir 
1960 SCHEDULE 

Outlook for Next Year 
Sept. 24—California at Notre Dame 
The Golden Bears, although losing 

by JAY KILROY 
their outstanding guard, Pete Domoto, 
will vastly improve their dismal 1959 record. With a host of sophomores and juniors returning, Coach Pete Elliott's eleven should be one of the better West Coast teams. 

Oct. 1—Purdue at Notre Dame 
The Boilermakers lose Ross Fichtner and Bob Jarus. However, Coach Jack MoUenkopf will once again have his usual rugged line. Quarterback Bemie Allen, instrumental in the 1959 victory over Notre Dame, also returns. 
Oct. 8—No. Carolina at Chapel Hill Coach Jim Hickey, in his second sea­son as head mentor, loses such stars as Don Klochak and Jack Cummings. Junior Ray Farris should handle the quarterbacking chores well but the Tar Heel line lacks experience. 
Oct. 15—Mich. State at Notre Dame 
The 1960 Spartans should once again rise back into the national limelight. Coach Duffy Daugherty's main problem will be finding capable replacements for the departed Dean Look and Blanche Martin. 
Oct. 22—Northwestern at Evanston 
Quarterback Dick Thornton and full­back Mike Stock lead a large list of returnees. Although losing such stars as Ron Burton, Jim Andreotti, and Joe Abbatiello, the Wildcats will again be top contenders for the Big Ten crown. 
Oct. 29—Navy at Philadelphia 
Losing two quarterbacks of the caliber of Jim Maxfield and Joe Tranchini is bound to hamper the Middie attack. Coach Wayne Hardin will build his of­fense around the running of two Joe's, Bellino and Matalavage. 
Nov. 5—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame All-America end Mike Ditka, half­backs galore and a well-balanced, al­ways tough Pitt line should greatly im­prove the mediocre 1959 Panthers. Coach John Michelosen must find a quarterback replacement for Ivan Toncic. 
Nov. 12—Miami at Miami The Hurricanes are the only new team on the Irish schedide and Coach Andy Gustafson's squad will be out to avenge their 1955 defeat by the Irish. Miami's famed "belly series" will have to operate without graduated quarterback Fran Curci. 
Nov. 19—Iowa at Notre Dame 
The perennially tough Hawkeyes have 

• always - managed to. be ; "up" for the Notre Dame game. Even without the services of-such graduated stars as Don Norton and Ray Jauch, Iowa's tough wing-T will be hard to contain. 
Nov. 26—So. California The McKeever twins, Don Ficca, Lynn Gaskill and experience at every position will again feature one of the top teams in the nation. Coach Don Clark's eleven should win their third PCC title in a row. 
The 1959 Notre Dame football season was one marked by innovation. For it was this past season that head coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants first as­sumed their jobs. And it was in 1959 that a large gi-oup of tough, hard-fight­ing sophomores played in their first foot­ball games for the Irish. 
Rebuilding Year. To many observers, the 1959 football record here at Notre Dame would not seem impressive. And in tei-ms of victories and defeats, it isn't. However, this is not a tme basis for judgment. For 1959 was a "rebuilding year" for the Irish. Last fall, Coach Kuharich was greeted by only thirteen returning letteimen. Using these experi­enced men as a nucleus, Kuharich also had to count on many squad members with no varsity experience. Games were lost but a team was being built. And in 1960 we should be able to see some of the results of this building process. 
MYRON (MOE) POTTIOS 
Returns to action in 1960 
It must also be remembei-ed that 1959 was a year in which the Irish were con­stantly plagued by injuries. Such key perfoi-mei's as George Izo, Bill Mack, Jim Crotty and Myron Pottios were in­active for at least half of the games be­cause of casualties. With such a long injui-y list, it was difficult to find the one "right" unit and stick with it. 
Better in '60? And what about the 1960 football season at Notre Dame? All facts indicate that the Irish will be much improved next year. First, Coach Kuharich will be greeted by a larger gi*oup of returning lettermen next fall. And certainly the list of injuries will be shorter. Added to this is the fact that the freshman squad was one of the best and most aggressive in a long time. 
Although the Irish lose Monty Stickles and Henry Wilke at the end positicm, they can count on three sophomores who saw considerable action this year to take up the slack. Les Traver of Toledo, O., was one of the top pass receivers on the squad. Max Bumell of Evanston and Jim Mikacich of Sacramento also showed great promise as the season progressed. 
Eetuming at the tackle position wiU be sophomores Bob Bill, Joe Carollo, George Williams and junior Bob Koreck. Bill, a 220-pounder from Garden City, N.Y., and Carollo, a 230-pound native of Wyandotte, Mich., were starters for most of the season and will provide ag­gi'essiveness and experience at this po­sition next fall. 
Pottios Returns. Junior Myron Pottios, a 215-pounder from Van Vooris, Pa., and Nick Buoniconti, a sophomore from Springfield, Mass., were outstanding per­formers at guard and return to trouble their opponents again next season. Nor­bert Roy, a 195-pound sophomore from Baton Eouge, La., also played well throughout the season. The Irish lose outstanding senior guards in Captain Ken Adamson, Al Sabal and Mike Muehlbauer. 
The 1960 gridders will be without the valuable services of center Bob Schollz. However, 205-pound sophomore Tom Hecomovich from Bovey, Minn., was very effective at that position after re­covering from an injury. Sophomore John Powers, a 215-pounder from Har­vard, 111., will also see a lot of action at center in the next two years. Senior Dave Hurd, injured for the season, is expected to return also. 
Upon the graduation of seniors Don White and George Izo, the quarterback­ing chores will be left primarily in the hands of two sophomores. George Haff­ner, a 180-pounder from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, demonstrated veteran poise and deceptive ball handling ability while di­recting the team this year. Tom Jorling, a highly-r^arded 200-pound sophomore from Cincinnati, was injured and did not play this year. He is exi>ected to make a strong bid for the signal calling posi­tion next season. Bill Henneghan, an injured 190-pound junior from Detat)it, also should see action in 1960. 
Strength at Halfback. Bob Scarpitto, Bill Mack, Bay Ratkowski, George Sef­cik. Bill Clark and Angelo Dabiero will give the Irish fine depth at the halfback position. All played considerably this past season, and each one has the speed and ability to break away for a touch­down at any given moment. 
Jim Crotty is the only departing sen­ior at fullback. Sophomores Gerry Gray, Joe Perkowski, Dick Naab and juniors Dan Griffith and Frank Gargiulo will be doing the fullbacldng for the Irish next year. With the exception of Naab, all were injured at least part of this sea­son and Griffith was out for the year. 
December 4, 1959 
ROCCO'S NEW Restaurant 
* 
STEAKS - SEAFOODS 
Also the Finest Italian Dishes * 
MODERN PRIVATE ROOMS AVAILABLE 
Call for Reservations • Cpen till midnight—Sunday 12-8 P.M. 
18142 South Bend Ave. 
CE 4-7224 
Still Operating at Our Old Location 537 N. St. Louis 
Contact Lens Specialist 
DR. T. R. PILOT 
optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED OPnCAL BEPAmS GLASSES FITTED 
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
LISTEN 
TO 
THE ALL 
NEW 
WSND 
FEATURING . . . 
MUSIC NEWS SPORTS AND SPECIAL FEATURES 
6 40 on your DIAL Injury Survey 

(Continued from page 46) 
time or another with Perkowski, a sopho­
moi-e, displaying good explosive power 
and speed up the middle and off tackle. 
Another spot in the line-up that was 
hit especially hai-d by the avalanche of 
injuries was the tackle spot. Both Joe 
CaroUo and Bob Bill were injured in 
the Northwestern game and at the time 
both of these sophomores were starting. 
Senior Ollie Flor and sophomore George 
Williams did a good job of filling the 
gap but they were forced to play vir­
tually without rest because of the thin 
manpower. 

The defensive secondary suffered a damaging blow also when ace defensive quarterback Clay Schulz suffered a bruised shoulder against Navy and was out until the Soiithem Cal game. This forced Don White to go both ways, thus hurting his offensive effectiveness. 
The following is a list of the major 
injuries, their nature, when they hap­
pened, and the period in which the 
player was lost to the team: 
Senior Dick Ciesielski hurt his knee in fall practice and returned to action in the Northwestern game. 
Dan Griffith, broken ankle, lost for 
the season. 

Tom Jorling, a sophomore quarter­
back who had been second-string in 
spring practice, was out for the year 
with a bum knee which he picked up 
the same day as Griffith broke his 
ankle. 

Tom Hecomovich, a rangy center from Bovey, Minn., missed the first three games of the year with a shoulder sepa­ration and then came back to be a good linebacker. 
Tom Bonofiglio is another sophomore quarterback that missed the 1959 cam­paign with a knee injury. 
Senior end Jim Colosimo, who has been plagued by injuries for four years, suffered a pulled gi'oin muscle against Purdue and never did get back in the line-up. Colosimo was regarded as a very fine offensive end. 
Norb Roy, a sophomore guard who had done a very acceptable job of re­lieving Captain Ken Adamson early in the year, sprained his ankle against California and was out until the Pitts­burgh contest. 
Pat Healy, a promising junior half­back from Baltimore, Md., twisted his knee against Navy and was forced to watch the rest of the games from the sidelines also. 
These are just a few of the major injuries sustained by the Fighting Irish and says nothing about the minor in­juries which curtailed a player's effec­tiveness without putting him out of ac­tion or of the major injuries of gridders who were not expected to be predomi­nate in the Irish plans anyway. 
It was a year of knee injuries. The theoretical best backfield of Izo, Mack, Scarpitto and Crotty missed a total of nine games completely and their per­formances were limited in many others. The problena can best be summed up by 
LBUKY u i BWK SHOP 

New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 
110 East LoSolle Ave., South Bend 
A Nonprofit Organization 
a Swingline 
Stapler no 
bigger than a pack of gum! 
98<= 
(Including 1000 staples). 
SWINGLINE "TOT" Millions now in use. Uncondi­tionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Avail­able at your college bookstore. 
SWINGLINE "Cub" Stapler $1.29 
INC. 
'.ONO ISLAND CITY. NEW YORK. N. Y 
SIMERI'S CAFE Daily Special 
ITALIAN BREAD SANDWICHES 
HAM — SAUSAGE — BEEF 
50c 
•
 SPAGHETTI 

•
 RAVIOLI 

•
 PIZZA 

•
 SEAFOODS 


Friday Special FROG LEGS $1.50 
410 N. Hill St. South Bend, Indiana CE 3-0677 

the fact that Coach Kuharich was only mation on current or past Notre Dame 
Sports Publicity 
able to use the same starting line-up athletes. The Monogram News, the 
(Continued from page 35) 
twice all season. semi-yearly publication of the Monogram Not only did the flock of injuries hurt Also during the games he sees to it club, is prepared by this office also. 
that play-by-play copies by quai-ters, 
the effectiveness of the team as a whole, Tliis year marks the fourteenth year 
half-time and final statistics, and other as head of Spoi-ts Publicity for Calla­
but they forced Coach Kuharich and 

information is distributed to each repor­
his staff to change their basic strategy. han. He is a graduate of Notre Dame, 
With one or two newcomers in the line­ter for his stoiy. class of 1938, and took over his present The during-game wox-k is such that position in 1946 after serving with the 
up every week, the coaching staff was 

"Charlie," as he's known to eveiyone in Air Force in World War II. He also 
forced to stick to simple offensive 

the newspaper trade, rarely gets to see writes a column for the Sunday Visitor, 
patterns. 

more than a few minutes of actual game a Catholic newspaper with national cir­
Other injuries: 

action as he is constantly seeing that culation. 
John Linehan, chipped bone in thumb, 

each writer has everything he needs. On Callahan's staff are his personal 
September 2, out until Northwestern. 

Sports Publicity also takes care of the secretaiy, Mary McCarthy, and students Greg Divis, knee, September 8, lost football pi'ograms for each home game, Tom Bates, a senior from Meadville, Pa., for the season. and assists the away opponents by fur­who is chief assistant, and Bob Schae-Bill Clark, ankle, September 6, out nishing any necessary infonnation they fer, a junior from Minneapolis, Minne­for a week. need for their progi-ams. sota and Ken Murphy, a sophomore also Ted Romanowski, knee, September 10, Each week during the fall season, from Meadville, Pa. During the football starting with fall practice in early Sep­season Callahan is assisted also by Mrs. 
lost for the season. 

tember, a six- to eight-page news re­Eleanor Vanderhagen. 
Paul Nissi, knee, September 8, out 

lease is sent to 1350 newspapers, wi-iters 
the whole year. 

and radio-TV announcers across the na­George Williams, knee, September 9, tion. This weekly release is further out until the California game. supplemented by a daily story which is Scarpitto, hip muscle, missed the sent to the Chicago Tribune, Indianapo­
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP 

Purdue game. lis Star, and both news sei-vices—^Asso­ciated Press and United Press Interna­Catering to Students and Faculty 
Pat Heenan, broken finger, out for one 

tional. •
week. 

As an added sei-vice, pictures and 
Nick Buoniconti, ankle and nose, hap­GENERAL SHOE REPAIRING 
hometown stories are sent to each ball 
pened against MSU, used sparingly the 

player's home town newspaper during SHOE ACCESSORIES 
next game. 

the season. This is true for all sports. 
QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE 
George Sefcik, broken thumb, hap­

These stories are sent sevei-al times dur­
pened in Navy game, did not miss ac­

ing the season, depending on how well 
tion, however. 

the player perfoi-ms. In Rear of Mike Muehlbauer, shoulder bruise, The office handles throughout the year Administration Building missed the Georgia Tech game. any requests which come in for infor­
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
BYRON 
PRESS 

WAat A^mca Stands 7or 
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons on Life Savers: 
The issues of American identity and the world's image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors' eval­uation of American institutions, ideas, and pur­poses should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world's vision of what America stands for. 
Distinguished scholars have contributed to the volume: Jerome J. Kerwin, Chicago; Guy B. Johnson, North Carolina; Don K. Price, Har­vard; Karl de Schweinitz, Jr., Northwestern; Clark Kerr, President, California; Charles M. 
"Give away thy breath!" 
Hardin, Chicago; George N. Shuster, President, From My 36A Year, line 36 
Hunter; John Ely Burchard, M.I.T.; and Stephen 
D. Kertesz, M. A. Fitzsimons, John T. Frederick, Thomas J. Stritch, and I. A. Abell, Notre Dame. 
$4.75 For a Gift of Distinction 
i3 
On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers Still only 5? 
December 4, 1959 
You Always Deal at 
WATCHES RADIOS 
Get a Square Breen's 
DIAMONDS SHAVERS 
Expert Watch Repturing 
BREEN'S 
Jeweler 
325 S. tGchigan St. Phone AT 7-3630 

ARMY-NAVY NAHCHT 
AIR FORCE 

CAFEIERIA Insignios 
Savory Food Since 1897 MILITARY SUPPLIES 

REASONABLE PRICES 

Gendel's Surplus Sales 
R.O.T.CBBASS AND 
MILITARY SUPPUES 
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 
1415 Uncoln Way West 

512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOTITH BEND 
*• •••* 
be first In your class to JET HOME In a hurry! 
You can be cavorting back home with Nola (or whatever her name is) on your next holiday while your stodgy classmates are scarcely off the campus when you travel on United Air Lines' new DC-8 Jet Mainliners — built by Douglas, which makes big, comfort­able airplanes like nobody. 
United's DC-8s are roomy enough even for basketball players. And the loudest noise you'll hear is the soft snoring of the guy in the next seat. 
Two lounges, yet. First Class or Air Coach, for pinochle, loafing or (perish forbid) reading. Two trim steward­esses deftly serve truly Lucullian (i.e., terrific) meals. 
Jiist one thing: people are going for United's DC-8 Jet Mainliner® service like ci-azy. So make reserva­tions early^and avoid being at the end of a line a block long. Call a travel agent or the United Air Lines ticket office that's nearest to you. 
mtET MAiMUMBR. BY OOUGtJiS EXTRA CARE HAS MADE IT THE BEST OF THE JETS 
The Scholastic 

at NOTRE DAME 
the 

Holy Cross Fathers Pubilsh 
Cover flesign by Cbarles Kerins 

THE CATHOLIC BOV 
the BEST all-round nM^azine any boy eooM irantl 
THE CATHOUC BOY 48 Pages Chock-full of 
n 1 year —$3.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana Three or _ more 
n 2 years— 5.00 1-yr. subscriptions 
SPORTS. ADVEN-

n 3 years— 7.00 $2 ^ each Please send the Catholic Boy 
I TU RE, COMICS, STORIES, 
To: Name 

I HOBBIES and CATHOUC 
Street and Number 

! INSPIRATION. 
I 

City Zone State D Send Gift Card to reed from 
Only *3^00 fi y^^^»I 
Your Name 

j Published monthly except Your Add^" "^ ^ ^ j during July and August 
FILTERS 
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 

New, free-flowing Miracle Tip unlocks natural tobacco flavor! That's why L'M can blendfine tobaccos not to suit a filter... but to suit your taste! They said it couldn't be done... but If M has done it again! eisss Liooett 4 Myers robacco co. 







