scholastic 
spr 
HH -j/f^ 
X  
/  
I  I  


football revieNA/ 
ixmm 
mi^s^?. 
r 

Beechwood Ageing could be an ""advertising gimmick." 


But it isn't. 
(For instance, , last year we bought h almost 2^ million pounds of Beechwood j strips... enough to fiU 67 freight cars.) 
WHEN YOU SAY 


Budweiser. 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC. • ST. LOUIS 
^ V-£wwvuv^^yvvi^X«4«C3^&«fiflflfiM 
december 10, 1971 notre dame, ind. 

scholastic 
volume 113, no. 8 


football reviexA/ 
4  introduction  
^T^^SS^^^^  the  season  
^KMS^'^^^  5  northwestern  
^^^^^^ ^  8 10 12 14 purdue michigan state miami  nortli Carolina  
16  southern  California  
182022  navy  Pittsburgh  tulane  
24  louisiana  state  
2832  coming attractions  only a game  

Football Review Editor: Don Kennedy Art Director: Rick Fitzgerald Writers: Don Kennedy, Vic Dorr, Mike Mooney Photographers: Joe Raymond, Jim Hunt Staff: Dan O'Donnell, Pat McCracken, Greg Chinchar 
Mimi Wheeler, Tim Walsh, Joe Hotz "Doonesbury" cartoon courtesy of G.B. Trudeau 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC IS printed at A\'E MARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is §5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
mmMiik 


introduction 
It was not an exciting year of football. Nor were the season's expectations fulfilled in the slightest way. Perhaps the 1971 edition of Notre Dame football could simply be written off as the "Year of the Great Dud." But to lightly pass over a team that, nonetheless, won eight of ten games would be unfair. After all, the 8-2 record for 1971 is the fourth best registered by an Irish eleven since 1952. Some colleges haven't seen 8-2 sea­sons in ages. Perfection, or, winning if you will, is the ultimate stressed at Notre Dame. And when a team falls short of that idealized goal, it is met unfairly with choruses of jeers and catcalls. 
The distasteful aftermath of 1971 can be attributed to much more than the team's performance throughout the season. When a Sports Illustrated or the like tabs Notre Dame as its preseason favorite for the coveted National Championship, expectations understandably reach lofty perches. The preseason prognosticators, and most Irish fans, ignored (or maybe simply underrated) the consequences of Joe Theismann's graduation and departure from the team. 
Theismann was, simply, the main reason the 1970 offense moved so well. He had his weak points, but it was his ability and combined skiUs at quarterback that led the '70 team to a 10-1 record. You just don't remove so integral a part of a winning unit and nonchalantly expect practically the same squad to perform even better. Not unless, of course, you've got a better part with which to replace the old one. There wasn't even the slightest indication of just who would replace Theismann at the time everyone was picking Notre Dame number one. Everyone "assumed" that Ara would come up with another "Jersey Joe." This false assump­tion led to an overrated team. And this overrated team consequently disappointed the same individuals who overrated them. The fault lies not with the players, but with those who expected so much. 

A former Notre Dame gridder was overheard this fall commenting on the style of the 1971 team's play. "Watching Notre Dame play football this year," he analyzed, "is like watching to men fish." True, Notre Dame's "grind-it-out" game plans didn't exactly bring the crowd to its feet every minute or so, but, really, what else could they do? Had they abandoned the rudi­ments of the ground game for the flashier attack of seasons past (which they were incapable of handling) they would've lost more than the USC and LSU games. The Irish were forced to implement an offensive attack that suited the ability of the personnel available. It didn't always work, but it was the best of possible offensive arrangements. 
Success can't be measured this year with a yard­stick molded out of the performance of past "great" Notre Dame teams. Maybe 8-2 was the best that could've been asked from this year's team. Everyone can conjecture about what might have been, but the only ones who know just how well the '71 team per­formed are the players themselves, and they're not telling anybody. 
—don kennedy 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

northwestern 
From the moment the final gun had sounded the death-knell for Texas in the 1971 Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame fans had waited apprehensively for the season opener against Northwestern. They knew that the great Irish defense would be back, but they also realized that the offensive wizardry of Joe Theismann had traveled north with him to Toronto. "Who's gonna be the quar­terback?" was the question being asked all summer long in bars and living rooms throughout the country. "Steenberge, Etter or Brown (or maybe even Bulger)" was the answer everywhere. No one was quite sure, not even Coach Parseghian, just who would finally emerge to lead the Irish in '71. Sports Illustrated didn't think the question merited much thought, as its crystal ball predicted a Notre Dame National Championship. But the skeptics were wary. "Can't win without a quarterback," they'd say. But even the skeptics felt that, even though the quarterback problem was not yet solved, some vital clues to its solution would emerge after the meeting with the Wildcats. 
However, to the dismay of many, the only clues this game provided were the obvious ones: the Irish defense had actually improved (if that were at all pos­sible) to impregnable proportions; and, there was yet to be found someone to fill Joe's shoes. 
The Irish defense had a field day. They intercepted seven Wildcat passes, recovered two fumbles, blocked a punt and scored twelve points. What the statistics don't show is that the defensive marauders, aside from stifling Northwestern's attack, provided the Irish of­fense with excellent field position the entire afternoon. 
First-quarter action was lackluster on both sides. After Walt Patulski blocked a Marty McGann punt and recovered at the NW 32, Bill Etter guided the Irish rushing game into the end zone in five plays. Etter himself netted 26 of the 32 yards in the drive on three keepers. 
Three minutes later the Wildcats had knotted the score at seven apiece. On fourth and four from his own 45, punter Marty McGann hit flanker Barry Pear­son for 16 yards on a fake-punt pass. Two plays later Clarence Ellis was ruled interfering with Pearson on a questionable caU and the Wildcats had momentum at the Irish 23. Northwestern's lone score of the afternoon came when quarterback Maurie Daigneau passed 7 yards to his halfback, Johnny Cooks, with 4:55 remain­ing in the quarter. 
Neither team had genuinely established a "drive" for their first scores. The Irish capitalized from a trick play and a penalty. At the quarter's end it ap­peared that the game was developing into a struggle of two stubbornly opposed defensive units. 
The Irish offense had other things in mind. With Steenberge and Etter sharing duties at the controls the offense rolled off a 66-yard scoring drive at the opening of the second quarter. Steenberge guided the Irish from their own 34 to the Wildcats' 38. Etter took over and combined with halfback Bill Gallagher on a 32­yard pass play that brought the Irish to the NW 10. Two plays later Bob Minnix broke over right tackle for the 4-yard score that put Notre Dame in front for good. 
This drive sent Northwestern reeling as the Irish scored the next three times they had the ball. A 36­yard Bob Thomas field goal was sandwiched between a Steenberge-to-Gatewood touchdown pass and a Ciesz-
NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
kowski 4-yard toudidown run. In eleven minutes Notre 
Dame's offense and defense had rolled to a 30 to 7 
half time margin. 
The second half was all Notre Dame;—Notre Dame's defense, that is. Stepaniak and Crotty raised. Wildcat Maurie Daigneau's TD passing total to three as they ^ both picked off two of his passes and returned them for touchdowns of 40 and 65 yards, respectively. Ken Schlezes' third interception of the afternoon gave the Irish offense the baU at the NW 22, and Cliff Brown directed the second-stringers to the final taUy. 
The success of the Irish secondary (they inter­cepted seven Daigneau aerials) can be attributed to the success the Irish front four had in both shutting off the Wildcats' ground game and pressuring Daigneau with an effective passxiish. Thanks to the efforts of. the front four Notre Dame was able to alternate their defensive backfield alignment to better contain the Wildcats' passing attack. On key passing downs Ken Schlezes was inserted in the lineup to give the Irish four,' instead of their normal three, deep defenders. Northwestern was forced, by its failure to establish a , running attack, to play right into the hands of the Irish defensive strategy. And against Notre Dame's defense, that proved to be disastrous for them. 
Wildcat Head Goach Alex Agase, notably upset over the afternoon's events, had only a few gruff com­ments: to make after the game. "If you can't run the football yoii can't win. Period. We ran into their line and only gained a yard so we had to throw. When we threw they had people back there waiting to pick them off." In his own way Agase had summed up the rea­sons for his team's humiliating defeat. 
Maurie Daigneau, the Northwestern quarterback who himself had been quite humiliated, was a bit more receptive to questions after the game than was his coach. In fact, Daigneau had nothing but praise for Notre Dame.. "They're easily the best team in the country,'' commented Daigneau. "Their front four is one of the best I've, ever played against. We played Michigan last week and I don't think they come close to Notre Dame., You deserve to be number one." When asked about the Wildcats' failure to move the ball on the ground, Daigneau bent forward from his locker and whispered, "Those guys over there. They're my offen­sive linemen. They're a little green." 

Across the way in the jubilant Notre Dame locker room Coach. Parseghiah was reeling off two of the year's top understatements; First, he said, "Northwest­ern made some mistakes and had some turnovers. We 
Steenberge races for yardages against theWilicdis. 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

took advantage of them and they had to play catch-up football." He followed this by comnienting that "we are deeper at offensive halfback how than at any time since I've been at Notre Dame." - Twelve Irish backs had carried the ball 63 times that afternoon for 242 yards. One might say that Notre Dame had a halfback or two on the squad. 
Parseghian was pleased with the performance of his shuttling quarterbacks and felt that he would "continue to shuttle them if circumstances dictate it." But quite a few Irish fans left the stadium wondering whether or not such a system could produce a con­sistent winner. Some students could be overheard mut­tering "if only Daigneau played for us we wouldn't have to worry." The Irish defense had impressed all, but neither Etter nor Steenberge displayed even the slightest flash of brilliance that was Theismann's. Both had played well, but apparently for many their best was not going to be good enough. 
Sports Illustrated didn't care, as they- later said "even a cheerleader could run the team." And the poll­sters agreed that Notre Dame was indeed, one of the best around. . But they all ignored the fact .that the question remained,unanswered. "Who's gonna be quar­terback?',' would have to be decided another day. 
.7 0-0 0-^,7 , Notre ; Daine' f 23 6 14 — 50 
Scori ng: -" . 
vND: Gulyas, 3-yard .run (Brown kicic); f-
NU: Cooks, 7-yard pass from Daigneau (Planisek kick). 
ND: • Minnix, 4-yard run (Brown kick).' : ' 
ND: • Gatewood, 8-yard pass from Steenberge .(Brown kick).. 
ND: Thomas, 36-yard field.goal. 
.-••_­

. ND: . Cieszkowski, 4-yard run (Rick failed)I 
'' -; ^ • 

ND: Stepaniak, 40-yard interception returri (Kick failed). ND: Grotty, 65-yard interception return! (Thomas kick).. ' ND: Hill, 4-yard run (Thomas kick). 
'\.'''<'y 
TEAM STATISTICS '/-; ; ^:\ND:'.: ,- ~Nu:r 
Total First Downs ...:—.....i.. y. "'21: 16 
.---'• ; "­
; Yards Gained Rushing. .'.1-....";• ..'242 }:.-• : 37 

-' - 5; Yards Gained Passing :1...-;.-:C-114 V -. "215 ; " ,, Total Offensive Yardage -.1.f;,; 356^-; .-252 
-' -Passing (Att'd-Gom'd) ....:;: 27=-9 . "44^19 . Interceptions by ,.„...,:. ^'^1.7-':-} y " 2 Fumbles lost .......J.......;.;!. :-'/-:-2--: 2 Punting (No.-Ave.) ...::..„.;. 5-42.5., '-•7-36.4 , Total Yards Penalized ...:... '- 4i~ -: 50 Weather: Cloudy and warm. -Attendance: 59,075 
Irish defensive back Ralph Stepaniak exults after interception return for TD. 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 



purdue 
Rain-slicked highways, a muddy field and soggy souls in the stands. All too reminiscent of the USC tragedy last November. Rain — the great equalizer. Add to it the rivalry of Notre Dame-Purdue and the memory of a 48-0 shellacking and you've got the mak­ings for one hell of a ball game. 
For the longest time — 58 minutes and two seconds to be exact — it appeared that the weather was gmding the Boilermakers, to a 7-0 upset of Notre Dame.. The Irish. '71 season, a season fiUed with the hope for and dream of a National Championship, was being washed away by the fickle moods of Indiana's autumn weather. 
Neither team could muster much of an attack in the early goings. Two Bob Thomas field goal attempts failed: once, when a bad pass from center foiled the attempt; and, early in the second quarter, when Thomas' kick was wide to the right.. The Irish running game was moving in spurts, but just couldn't manage to squeeze together enough sizable gains on one series to crack Purdue's, end zone. Notre Dame's passing game ^yas, understandably, having its problems in the wet weather. 
The Riveters' ground game also met with compli­cations— the Irish front four. But their passing atr tack was fairly successful in penetrating the creases in the Notre Dame zone defense. Hook patterns and quick-out passes were helping them move the ball. 
Late in the second quarter Purdue's passing game took them in for what later appeared to be the only score of the day. Taking over on their own 47 after a Brian Dpherty punt, Purdue's Gary Danielson teamed with split-end Rick Sayers on two hook passes to move the Boilermakers to within striking distance at the Irish 26. A third pass to Sayers was just barely over­thrown at Notre Dame's 10-yard line. 
Purdue's success with the pass had the Irish de­fense a bit shaken. On second down from the Irish 26 the Boilermaker offense ran what might be called "the perfect play." Danielson dropped back, faked a draw to his fullback (which suckered the entire Irish defense except for Ralph Stepaniak) and lofted a lazy screen pass to Otis Armstrong in the left flat. AU that was between Armstrong and the Irish end zone were about six Purdue blockers and Ralph Stepaniak. Stepaniak fought off four of the blockers, but couldn't get by the Boilermakers' left guard. Ken Watkins. Armstrong walked into the end zone unmolested and Purdue fans were delirious. 
At half-time the rain suddenly stopped. Purdue's band (complete with the Golden Girl) went through their routine sans rain. No sooner had the band marched off the field and the two teams had returned for the second half, when the rains reappeared. It was that kind of day. 
The monsoon that hovered over Ross-Ade Stadium in the second half was unbelievable. Almost as un­believable as the events that were about to unfold. At times it rained so hard it was almost impossible to see the field from the press box perched at the rim of the stadium. And the harder it rained the worse playing conditions got. It was not, to say the least, the type of conditions that were suited for a team to play catch­up football. 
Pat Steenberge, who quarterbacked most of the game because, according to Coach Parseghian, "he worked better with that center and under those condi­tions we didn't want to risk a fumble," just couldn't seem to get the Irish offense, to catch up to anything, let alone Purdue's 7-0 lead. But then, late in the ganie, the Irish got the first of two big breaks that would lead to their victory. 
Standing on his own 12-yard line, Purdue punter 
Steenberge drops back in the rain. 
TH E SCHOLASTIC 

Scott Lougheed sliced a punt off the side of his foot and the Irish took over at the Boilermaker 42. Steen­berge quickly moved the Irish to the Purdue 5. On second down from the 5 Pat lost control of the slippery, ball and Chuck Piebes, former Purdue quarterback turned safety, fell on it to apparently ice Purdue's upset. But the weather, which had equalized things all afternoon, soon evened that mistake. 
Notre Dame's defense dug in and forced Purdue to punt from its own end zone. Scott Lougheed dropped back, the snap was low, and the ball was loose. He managed to regain control and tried to roU to his right in an attempt to get the punt off. Just as he was re­leasing the ball for the punt Clarence Ellis blind-sided him from his left. Fred Swendsen fell on the loose baU and it was suddenly raining Shamrocks in Lafay­ette. The two-point pass play from Steenberge to Creaney sealed the win, but seemed a bit anticlimactic after what had preceded it. Somehow everyone knew that the conversion was going to work after the defense had scored. After all, they were just following the script. 
Purdue Coach Bob DeMoss took the blame for the blocked punt upon himself. "I never thought about the safety," commented a downcast DeMoss. "I just told him to punt it out of there. It was my fault, I should have told him to fall on the ball if he got in trouble." 
So the Irish fans left Lafayette a bit shaken but ecstatic nonetheless. "No one could beat us today," one was overheard saying. "That old Notre Dame charisma came through again. The luck of the Irish still lives!" Bob DeMoss knew what they were talking about. He shook his head and sighed, "I guess we just weren't meant to win today." 
0  8 —  8  
Purdue  0  7  0  0 —  7  
Scoring:  

PU: Armstrong, 26-yard pass from Danielson (Renie kick). ND: Swendsen, fuinble recovery in end zone (Creaney, pass from Steenberge). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND PU Total First Downs 14 12 Yards Gained Rushing 114 108 Yards Gained Passing 105 138 Total Offensive Yardage .... 219 246 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 26-7 24-12 1 
2 Punting (No.-Ave.) 10-37 16-35.3 Total Yards Penalized 20 52 Weather: Plenty of Rain. Attendance: 69,765 
Clarence EUis rejoices on the sidelines after forcing Lougheed's furnble in the end zone. 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 


michigan state 
The famiUar twinkle was noticeably lacking in Duffy Daugherty's eyes after the Irish had extended their winning streak over State to three games by a 14-2 margin. The referees,,insisted Duffy, had won the game for Notre Dame. "This was the worst officiated game I've seen in all my years of coaching," ranted Duffy. "They missed two roughing-the-kicker calls and plenty of offensive interference against them (Notre Dame)." 
Now, let's be fair, Duffy. The Irish outgained your Spartans by a 306 to 136 spread in yardage alone. We don't even have to mention the fact that Notre Dame had 22 first downs to your 9 (but we just did, anyway). Just because your offense could penetrate the Irish 50 only once the entire game (all the way, in fact, to Notre Dame's 47-yard line) is no cause for you to rake the officials over the coals. Surely, you've seen worse officiated games than this one. Like back in 1968, for example, up at Spartan Stadium, when you upset the Irish, thanks to a blown caU by the official on an ob­vious pass interference against Jim Seymour by your own Al Brenner. That missed call won you the game, Duffy, but you didn't chastise the men in stripes then, 
Michigan State's Duffy Dauglierty lets the official know what he thinks of his calls. 
t. 'W 
-t =,afi! 
now, did you, Duffy? C'mon, Duffy, let's be a good sport and not blame the officials for your troubles. You got beat and you know it. No excuses, okay? 
Notre Dame's defensive unit performed superbly in its battle with the Spartans. They simply took away everything State had going for them. After the Irish offense had scored the first two, times they got their hands on the ball State was forced out of their game plan. From the beginning the Spartans had to play catch-up football; and the Irish defense just wasn't going to let anyone catch up with them. 
The first Irish score came as a result of an excel­lently executed drive after the opening kickoff that spanned 80 yards in 17 plays. Ball control was the key here as the Irish picked up six first downs and ate up 8 minutes and 10 seconds of the clock. Etter, Gallagher, Huff and Minnix simply ground out the yardage until Minnix carried over from the 1 for the score. 
Musuraca recovered a Spartan fumble on the State 17 and the Irish went to work again. Greg Hill circled left end for 12 yards to MSU's 5 and Minnix again hit pay dirt over the left side on a 5-yard jaunt. Only a 



W^^h--"-"^MM-'-'--^'i^^'^^mf^ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

state's Butler (87) appears to shove Ellis into his own punter. 
safety that resulted when Bill Etter fell on his own fumble in the Irish end zone prevented the Spartans from being shut out. They simply couldn't get any­thing going. 
Penalties did hurt the Spartan chances, though. A 52-yard pass from State quarterback Frank Kolch to tight end Billy Joe DuPree was nullified by an off-side call midway through the first quarter. Numerous other Spartan pass plays were called back on offensive pass interference caUs. Duffy had a gripe, all right, but not at the ofiicials. His own players were the ones that beat him on penalties. 
Probably the calls that gave Duffy the most grief during the afternoon were the ones he claimed weren't called — the "roughing-the-kicker" calls. The referees claimed that Irish rusher Clarence Ellis was "blocked into" the punter by Spartan protective blockers. This is strictly a judgment call. The referee was right on top of both plays and, I'm sure, he has seen a lot more roughing plays than Mr. Daugherty. Anyway, the camera's eye caught one of the so-called infractions; and, it sure looks like someone is shoving Mr. Ellis into the State punter. After the game Duffy said, "If those weren't roughing-the-kicker caUs, then I don't know a thing about football." Judge for yourself. Does Duffy know anything about football or doesn't he? 
To say the least, this game was far from exciting. Most of the fans were bored by halftime of a game that apparently was going nowhere after the score had reached 14-2. For many the most exciting part of the day's activities was a jaunt on the field at halftime for the benefit of a national television audience. Too many people have made a bigger deal about what occurred on the field at halftime than is probably justified. It was a boring game and it was hot (in the 80's). The 
NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
only thing they can be blamed for is interfering with the band, which was inexcusable. But I'm sure you've seen much worse examples of childishness than this at other schools. Woody Hayes even did it single-handedly, and he's not even a kid. 
Notre Dame blew three more scoring opportunities in the second half. Bill Etter fumbled inside the Spar­tan 5. Bob Thomas missed a field goal flrom 23 yards. And Larry Parker was unable to pick up a first down on fourth and one from the State 7. Coach Parseghian mentioned something about this failure to score from close in after the game. "I was pleased to win although I was disappointed we didn't score in the last three periods. We moved the ball more consistently today," he continued, "but we're going to have to develop more goal-line punch as the season goes along." That lack of a "goal-fine punch" would later prove to be the downfall of the Irish in Baton Rouge. 
Michigan State '. 2 0 0 0— 2 Notre Dame 1 14 0 0 0 —14 
Scoring: ND: Minnix, Iryard run (Thomas kick). ND: Minnix, 6-yard run (Thomas kick). MSU: Safety, Etter falls on own fumble in end zone. 
TEAM STATISTICS ND MSU Total First Downs 22 9 Yards Gained Rushing 214 32 Yards Gained Passing 92 104 Total Offensive Yardage 306 136 . Passing (Att'd-Com'd) „....l. 16-10 __ 32-10 Interceptions by 1 1 Fumbles lost -— 1 1 Punting (No.-Ave.) ...... 4-42 9-38.1 Total Yards Penalized 60 91 Weather: Overcast and warm. Attendance: 59,075 
11 


miami 

About sixty-five thousand showed up for this game at Miami's Orange Bowl. But just about everyone from Notre Dame caught this one on the tube. It was a peculiar game to watch on television — it had to be one of the shortest (in duration of time) games ever played (an hour and 55 minutes to be exact). And when you're watching a quick game like that on tele­vision it appears to be even shorter. It was kind of like watching one of those movies pre-made for tele­vision. In fact, it had the markings of a live TV drama: the hero gets injured and his faithful understudy takes over and saves the day. A simple plot. A simple game. 
For a while it looked like the Hurricanes would be in this game sdl the way. Their quickness surprised the Irish both on offense and defense. Twice it ap­peared they were headed for long scoring drives in the first quarter until the Irish defense stiffened and shut them off on key third and short-yardage situations. 
The Hurricanes' defense badgered Notre Dame in a somewhat similar manner to the way Georgia Tech stopped the Irish attack last year. The Irish moved the ball, but couldn't seem to be able to break through Miami for the score. 
With 13:42 left in the second quarter, a single play changed the course of Irish football for the '71 season. On second and nine from his own 37, Irish quarterback Bill Etter dumped a screen pass to Tom Gatewood. The play lost two yards, but the Irish lost more than that. Etter somehow injured his knee on the play and would be lost to the team for the season. 
Enter Cliflf Brown. On his first play he dropped back to pass, slipped on the Orange Bowl's "polyturf" rug, and lost seven yards. The next time the Irish got the ball Brown slipped and fell on an attempted hand-
Parker turns the comer against the Miami defense. 
off for a 2-yard loss. Brown was making an inauspicious debut; or so it seemed. But a quick change of shoes saved the day for the Irish. Brown slipped no more and he directed Notre Dame to its fourth straight win in '71, 17-0. A four-star performance by a novice actor, to say the least. 
After Brown changed his shoes to a pair more suit­able for traction on the "polyturf," he brought the Irish down to the Miami 22 where Bob Thomas kicked a 38-yard field goal to give the Irish a 3-0 halftime edge. 
In the second half the Miami Hurricane abated. Outweighed by Notre Dame's interior line, Miami's defense just ran out of gas. Their quickness, which had held the Irish in check in the first half, was gone. Without it they were helpless. They simply couldn't outmuscle Notre Dame. 
Cliff Brown apparently wasn't hampered by the jitters in his first long-range debut as quarterback. No sooner had the Irish received the second-half kickoff than Brown and the offense went to work on Miami's tired defensive line. From the Irish 34 Notre Dame ran inside and around the befuddled Miami defense in eleven plays with Andy Huff capping the drive on a one-man-show run for 16 yards and the score. In the middle of the fourth quarter the Irish scored again, as Brown highlighted a 68-yard scoring drive with a 33-yard keeper through the middle of the Hurricane defense. Six running plays later Irish halfback Darryl Dewan swept for 6 yards around left end for the game's final tally. 
For the fourth straight week the Irish defense had turned in a stellar performance. They Umited the Hur­ricanes to a mere 60 yards.rushing and 7 first doAvns. Around campus, people were beginning to feel that the 
TH E SCHOLASTIC 

'71 unit would better the '66 team's outstanding de­fense. Some even felt that few teams would score against the Irish for the rest of the year. "The best offense is a good defense" was the watchword. 
The offense was beginning to show signs of coming along. The running game was working well, but the passing attack had a few kinks in it. One thing was certain, though; the great "quarterback question" had seemingly been answered for good. Cliff Brown was the man, and the fate of the Irish would be riding on his successes for the remainder of the year. But no one really cared. After all, no one was going to score against us anymore, so why worry about the lack of a balanced attack? Only time would tell. . . . 
Notre Dame 0 3 7 7-17 Miami 0 0. 0 0-0 
Scoring: ND: Thomas, 38-yard field goal. ND: HufF, 16-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Dewan, 6-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND MU Total First Downs 20 7 Yards Gained Rushing 257 60 Yards Gained Passing 35 51 Total Offensive Yardage .... 292 111 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 10-6 16-4 Interceptions by 0 1 Fumbles lost I 0 Punting (No.-Ave.) 6-36.5 10-39.4 Total Yards Penalized 35 21 
Weather: Clear and warm. Attendance: 64,357 



^mxm^^^
m 
-;i; >^^i,„ 

^-y»«^--^ 
Huff breaks through for the first Notre Dame touchdown. : 

north Carolina 
A defensive backus view of a Bob Thomas field goal try. 
The fans came hoping for the first real offensive showing of the 1971 season. With USC only a week away they wanted to be assured that a Cliff Brown-led attack would be able to manhandle the hated Trojans. Surely CUff was the man to take over where Theismann had left off; and, today everyone came to see him buckle into Joe's shoes. But they left a bit disappointed. They came looking for an aerial show and found only the Seime "grind-it-out" rushing game. They also were treated to what they expected: another superlative ef­fort by the Irish defense. 
North Carolina brought with it a team similar to the Miami bunch the Irish had faced the week before. Very quick and mobile, but not that strong. As Miami had done a week ago, the Tar Heels were able to move the ball in the early goings; but, like Miami, they were unable to click on the third down plays and sustain a drive. 
The Irish, or better yet, Bob Thomas, scored the first three times they had possession of the ball. Each time they drove deep into Tar Heel territory only to sputter and settle for three Thomas field goals. Carolina could do nothing. Their ground game obviously missed the attack of their leading rusher, Ike Oglesby (who was sidelined with an injury), and when they went to the air the passes were either overthrown or dropped. Notre Dame's defense wasn't giving them an inch. 
Perhaps one of the season's most outstanding de­fensive performances by an individual developed early in the second quarter following the second Thomas field goal. Scott Smith kicked to Lewis JoUey who returned up the middle to the NC 10. Then he pulled up short, whirled, and threw a lateral to Earle Bethea on the left sideline. Bethea had six blockers and Clar­ence Ellis in front of him. Ellis managed to break through the wall of blockers and prevent a touchdown by stopping Bethea at the ND 43. As if that wasn't enough, Ellis intercepted a Paul Miller pass on the very next play. 
Commented Tar Heel Coach Bill Dooley about the previous turn of events: "On that kickoff play, we had noticed that when the receiver ran straight to the middle of the field, Notre Dame would close in and converge on the runner. That's why we put in the lateral pass play. Ellis just came up with an unbeliev­able effort. Even though, we still had the momentum until he intercepted that pass." 
So much for individual defensive efforts. In the second half the entire Irish defense came up with a team effort that nailed the lid on the Tar Heels' coffin. With the Irish still leading, 9-0, Cieszkowski fumbled and Brafford recovered for NC on the Irish 33. Two pass plays later the Tar Heels had the ball first and goal at the Irish 4. The shutout string was on the line 
TH E SCHOLASTIC 

and the Irish defense measured up to the test. NC tried three running plays but could get nowhere. With fourth and goal at the four. Ken Craven lined up for a field goal attempt. But the Irish defense was not to be scored upon today, as Mike Kadish crashed through the right side of the Tar Heel line to deflect Craven's kick to the ground. The defense, understandably, went nuts. Now everybody believed. "We can't lose this year," yelped some students, " 'cause nobody's gonna score on us." 
Everything after that scene was anticlimactic. Tom Gatewood caught his second touchdown pass of the season in the fourth quarter to sweeten the victory to the tune of a 16-0 shutout — the second in a row for Notre Dame. 
Bill Dooley pointed to the third-quarter stand by the Irish defense as the turning point of the game. "We had momentum in the third quarter with a first down at their four. But," he added, "Notre Dame came up with that great stand and the momentum switched. Up until then I thought we still had a chance to win the game. Notre Dame is the best defensive team I've ever seen. They are tremendously big and very quick. At times, they made us look very bad offensively. And the truth is, we are a good offensive football team." 
Once again the defense had turned the trick. They did it all and made it easy for the still-sputtering Irish 
Field goal attempt by Tar Heel Ken Craven is deflected by Mike Kadish. 

offense to win. Now halfway through the season the Irish remained unbeaten and were beginning to taste the sweet delights of a National Championship. The SC game would be the first hurdle, but it didn't appear to be such a big one after all. They were losing to everybody and couldn't possibly stop the Irish express. After all, nobody was gonna score on Notre Dame. 
North CarolinaNotre Dame  0 3  0 6  0 0  0— 0  7—16  
Scoring: ND: Thomas, 28-yard field goal. ND: Thomas, 27-yard field goal. ND: Thomas, 24-yard field goal.  

ND: Gatewood, 4-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND NC Total First Downs 21 8 Yards Gained Rushing „ 207 92 Yards Gained Passing 82 57 Total Offensive Yardage ..„ 289 149 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 17-5 17-7 Interceptions by 1 0 Fumbles lost 2 1 
Pimting (No.-Ave.) 6-46.2 8-43 Total Yards Penalized 51 55 Weather: Sunny and warm. Attendance: 59,075 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
southern California 
Some years ago, 1966 to be exact, Notre Dame humiliated the Trojans of Southern California, 51-0, on their way to a National Championship. To make things worse, they performed this feat on SC's home turf. The Irish have been paying interest on that shellacking ever since. Once again the "ghost of '66" returned to haunt the Irish and smash their dreeims of an undefeated season. 
John McKay's Trojans made it look easy — all too easy. All they did was ^vreck the pride and joy of the '71 Irish — the defense. A defense that had seemed impregnable for the first five games crumbled like dust at the hands of SC's duo of quarterbacks, Jimmy Jones and Mike Hae. As in '70, Jones could do no wrong. Only this year he had an able assistant in Mike Rae who also played to perfection. Both riddled the highly respected Irish defense with ease. Without the help of the defense, Notre Dame's offense was lost. It simply wasn't ready yet to assume the burden of winning a football game on its own. 
After SC's Bruce Dyer picked off a Brown pass at the Irish 49, Jones proceeded to do what he knows best 
— fiing that football. And fling it he did, for a 31-yard scoring strike to Edesel Garrison, who simply out­raced Clarence Ellis to the ball and the end zone. 
The Irish looked as if they were going to make a game of it on the next series. Gary Diminick brought the crowd to its feet with a 66-yard kickoff return to the SC 34. Seven running plays later Andy Huff had tied the score on a 1-yard plunge over left tackle. 
But then SC retaliated with a long return of its own. Charley Hinton gathered Scott Smith's kickoff at his own goal line and raced 65 yards to the Irish 35 where Clarence Ellis stopped him. Once again it was Edesel Garrison outracing the Irish secondary as Mike Rae, with all the time in the world, lofted a 24­yard scoring strike to him to put the Trojans in front for good. 
Things looked bad, but they got worse in the second quarter. Teiking over possession at the ND 46 after a Brian Doherty punt, good ol' Edesel went to work again. Jones found him on a 42-yard pass play that moved the ball to the Irish 4. Notre Dame's defense stiffened, but only momentarily, as Sam "The Bam" Cunningham hurdled for 1 yard and the score three plays later. 
The Irish began to panic prematurely. They aban­doned their game plan and went to the air. It didn't 
SC's Edesel Garrison ^ eludes Clarence Ellis for one of his two Tlfs. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

quite work. On second and ten from the Irish 49 Brown tried to hit Dewan in the middle of what looked like a sea of Trojans. It never quite got to Darryl. Bruce Dyer picked off Brown's pass and raced 53 yards, unmolested, to seal Notre Dame's doom. At 2:20 p.m.. Eastern Standard Time, the Trojans had done it again. 
The Irish desperately tried to get back in the game in the second half, but could only muster a third-quarter touchdown by John Cieszkowski for their efforts. They had some excellent scoring opportunities handed to them by Trojan miscues, but they were just too tight to get the offense to click. Their spirit was broken; they were a defeated team before the game was over. 
Just what happened to an Irish defense that had been so stingy giving up points for the first five games? John McKay had the answer. "We were hoping they would play Garrison with single coverage. All week long we had practiced throwing the bomb to him. We weren't sure we could run against them, so we wanted to be able to pass. Garrison runs the 440 in something like 45 seconds, so we didn't think any of their de­fenders could stay with him deep. Our blockers did an excellent job of shutting off their pass rush and all our quarterbacks had to do was just wait back there for him to get open." 
Edesel Garrison, the speedy end who gave the Irish nightmares all afternoon, gave his account of what hap­pened. "On the first touchdown pass I simply beat Ellis to the corner. The second time I beat Ellis deep he tried to beat me to the corner, but I caught the pass underneath him. On that second touchdown I gave their defender (Crotty) an inside move and he slipped." 
And that's all there was to it. Three big offensive plays and one big defensive play.- All led to USC touchdowns. The Irish simply couldn't come up with the big plays that USC did. A dejected Ara Parseghian 
Southern Cal  14  14  0  0 —  28  
Notre Dame  7  0  7  0—1 4  
Scoring:  

SC: Garrison, 31-yard pass from Jones (Rae kick). ND: Huff, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). SC: Garrison, 24-yard pass from Rae (Rae kick). SC: Cunningham, 1-yard run (Rae kick). SC: Dyer, 53-yard interception return (Rae kick). ND: Cieszkowski, 4-yard run (Thomas kick) 
TEAM STATISTICS ND SC Total First Downs 17 17 Yards Gained Rushing 144 183 Yards Gained Passing 160 194 Total Offensive Yardage 304 377 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 37-12 18-9 Interceptions by 2 3 Fumbles lost 1 2 Punting (No.-Ave.) 8-39.3 7-39 Total Yards Penalized 65 46 Weather: Cloudy and cool. Attendance: 59,075 

echoed this feeling in a hushed locker room after the game. "All I can say," summed Ara, "is that we needed the big play several times and did not get it; whereas, Southern Cal got it when they needed it." 
So once again the cry of "wait till next year" can be heard resounding around the caunpus. Maybe our dues to USC will be all paid up by then and we can take out another big loan like in 1966. Or maybe John McKay can start paying back part of the debt he's run up. But it better be soon. The debt's getting bigger and bigger every year. 
NOVEMBER 30, 1971 

navy 
Where do you pick up the pieces after your glitter­ing season has been shattered into worthless pieces by the likes of the SC Trojans? Where do you begin? Why, nowhere else than on the field of battle with the hapless Midshipmen of Annapolis. Only, someone forgot to bring the glue to this game and the Irish could do no better than sweep the pieces under the rug. 
The Irish were obviously not "up" for the Middies. The strain of the SC loss and the knowledge that Navy would be a pushover shackled the Irish in an attempt lo rebound from the SC loss. For all apparent pur­poses Notre Dame's eleven were just going through the motions in a very mechanical and lackluster win over Navy. 
For a while the game tended toward rout propor­tions. After Navy turned the ball over on a punt to Notre Dame at the Irish 22, the ND offense ground out a 78-yard scoring drive. It was similar to the TD drive that gave the Irish a 7-0 lead over MSU four games ago. Only this time Gulyas, Parker and Huff were the stars of the show. Gulyas capped the march with a 1-yard fourth-down plunge to pay dirt after the Irish had run the Middies' defense to an apparent early sinking. 
The Irish added two quickies in the second quarter to up their lead to a 21-0 count. A 64-yard "grind-it­out" drive ended when Bob Minnix plunged a yard over left tackle at 4:42 of the quarter. On the ensuing kickoff Navy's George Berry fumbled into the hands of ND's Ralph Stepaniak at the Middie 36. Once again Minnix closed out a scoring drive on the ground with a 10-yard run around the right side at 3:32 of the quarter. 
This was more like it. Two scores in a minute and the Irish looked like they were ready to finish the Mid­dies for good. The crowd was hungry for more points: hungry for an assurance that the loss to SC was only a fluke and that Navy, lowly Navy, didn't deserve to be on the field with one of the class teams in the nation. The Middies, however, had apparently not read the script. They stubbornly refused to knuckle under at the hands of the Irish. 

Notre Dame came close to scoring only once more the entire afternoon. Early in the fourth quarter they moved to the Navy 17, eager to get more points on the board for a better showing. But Greg Hill fumbled in 
Irish back Bob Minnix signals his first touchdown of tlie afternoon. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

the backfield and Hamrick recovered for Navy on his own 21 to kill the drive. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit had little trouble re­cording their third whitewash of the year. Navy just wasn't strong enough to handle Notre Dame. They lacked the quickness of Miami and North Carolina that had brought limited success to those teams in earlier games. Obviously aware that the Irish were vulnerable to the passing attack after learning of SC's successes with it, the Middies tried to penetrate the Irish sec­ondary for yardage. But the Navy line simply could not give sophomore quarterback Fred Stuvek the time he needed to throw. The Irish front four hounded him all afternoon. 
Navy's only scoring threat came late in the fourth quarter when they drove to ND's 15. But Stuvek's fourth down pass to Van Loan was high and wide and the Irish shutout remained intact. 
Coach Parseghian was a bit miffed about the team's performance against Navy. "I thought we played a very good first half today. But," he added, "we played a very ordinary second half. We made mistakes in the second half that kept us from scoring. I wasn't satis­fied with our offensive performance in the second half." 
It really wasn't much of a game. The 21-0 win over Navy proved little, if anything at all. People were 
Navy  0  0  0  0— 0  
Notre Dame  7  14  0  0 —  21  
Scoring:  
ND:  Gulyas, 1-yard run  (Thomas kick).  
ND:  Minnix, 1-yard run (Thomas kick).  
ND:  Minnix, 10-yard run (Thomas kick).  
TEAM  STATISTICS  ND  NAVY  
Total First Downs  20  9  
Yards Gained Rushing  281  43  
Yards Gained Passing  45  66  
Total Offensive Yardage ....  326  _  109  
Passing (Att'd-Com'd)  10-5  22-10  
-Interceptions by  0  1  
Fumbles lost  2  1  
Punting (No.-Ave.)  6-37.7  8-39.1  
Total Yards Penalized  55  0  

Weather: Sunny and v/ana. Attendance: 59,075 

beginning to doubt, for the first time in many years, the ability of Notre Dame to bounce back. An upset-minded Pitt team was next, and the Irish simply did not look ready to play football. 
QB Brown sets the offense inside the Middie five-yard line. 
NOVEMBER 30, 1971 

Pittsburgh 
Larry Parked races to the left comer of the end zone for a first-period TD. 
Pittsburgh is a strange city. And it's got. some strange places in it. Like Pete Coyne's Bar, for example. A little cubbyhole recessed a few blocks from the Pitt campus, Coyne's stands with all the appearances of the average "dive" that can be found in cities across America. But it's more than that, really. Beneath the dust and grime that lends an air of dinginess to the place lies a soul of sorts. 
This mood is hidden in the bar's extraordinsu'y four walls. They're murals. Old paintings of ancient 

. heores and places that live in Pittsburgh's sport history. Forbes Field, the Pittsburgh Steelers (1940's model), some unnamable Pirate veterans and two pre-World War n city boxing champs have been preserved in oil for as long as Coyne's weathers time. The soul that lurks behind these hapheizardly painted murals repre­sents more than just the history of Pittsburgh sports. On the eve of the ND-Pitt game it stood for just about anything great in sports you could think of. You couldn't escape it. It stared at you from all corners of the bar. 
It was here, then, over endless draughts of Iron City beer, that a handful of diehard Notre Dame stu­dents and fans came to the full realization that, corny as it may sound, the "Notre Dame legend" was still as much a part of the 1971 football experience as it was in more glorious years past. Coyne's soul rekindled the spirit that had seemingly died at the hands of USC. The handful of Pitt students seated at the rim of the bar couldn't understand why the "Fight Song" was sung over and over again. "You guys were finished by USC," they'd say. "You ain't goin' nowhere." But they just didn't understand. 
The spirit of Coyne's bar apparently spread up Cardiac Hill to Pitt Stadium the next day, as the Fight­ing Irish turned in perhaps their best overall per­formance of the 1971 season. The Panthers were cer­tainly no pushover. They were big and strong and capable of delivering the Irish their second loss of the year. Notre Dame, however, simply came through with the ultimate in excellence both offensively and de­fensively for the first time this season and whipped Pitt in every department. 
Notre Dame's offense, shifting into high gear after weeks of development, amassed 534 yards in total of­fense. The ground game Coach Parseghian had been structuring his offense around broke through Panther lines for an incredible 464 yards. And the Irish defense turned in another exceptional game, limiting Pitt to 113 yards in total offense and halting the Panther attack in the second half to only 2 yards. 
Just about all of the Irish's endless list of backs got into the act. Brown: 92 yards, one touchdown pass. Gulyas: 57 yards, three touchdowns. Cieszkowski: 59 yards. Minnix: 42 yards. Parker: 63 yards, two touch­downs. And eight other backs combined for the addi­tional 141 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Irish offensive line manhandled the Panther linemen. Such holes they opened had rarely been seen so often in one game this year. Panther supporters in the press box raved about Ralph Cindrich's 19 tackles from his linebacker position, just about the only thing they could rave about all afternoon. But they over­looked one thing. Cindrich got his chances to make those tackles only because his linemen were never in the game. His tackles were admittedly many, but most came after substantial Irish gains. 
Cliff Brown finally had come of age in his quar­terback spot. He ran the team smoothly and efficiently without signs of the nervousness that had plagued 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

him in his previous outings. For his performance the writers in attendance at Pitt Stadium voted him the "outstanding player of the game," a well-deserved award. 
What was apparently a day of sunshine for Notre Dame met with a tragic turn of events in the second half. All-American defensive end, Walt Patulski, had to be carried off the field on a stretcher sifter sustaining an injury to his knee. Pitt fans in the press box gloated over Walt's injury claiming that "Notre Dame deserves that for rolling up the score." Wherever the Irish play, someone always has a bowl of sour grapes around to detract from their victories. 
In reference to the lopsided score Panther Coach Carl DePasqua commented, "I didn't feel they were rolling up the score. We gave them such good field position all day on poor punts and fumbles that they couldn't help but score. They were able to do any­thing they wanted offensively." 
Ara denied that his team was trying to run the score up to impress the pollsters. "I've said it over and over again," he explained. "I don't care if we win by one point or fifty, just as long as we win. We got a lot of breaks today and consequently came up with 
Notre Dame  14  14  14  14 —  56  
Pittsburgh  0  7  0  0 —  7  
Scoring:  
ND:  Parker, 9-yard run  (Thomas kick failed)  
ND:  Parker, 6-yard run  (Minnix run).  
ND:  Gulyas, 1-yard run  (Thomas kick).  
ND:  Gulyas, 1-yard run  (Thomas kick).  
UP:  Hogan, 1-yard run  (Knisley kick).  
ND:  Gulyas, 1-yard run  (Thomas kick).  

ND: Gatewood, 8-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick). ND: Townsend, 12-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Dewan, 5-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND UP Total First Downs 28 7 Yards Gained Rushing 464 85 Yards Gained Passing 70 71 Total Offensive Yardage .... 534 113 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 13-5 14-5 Interceptions by 1 0 Fumbles lost 2 4 Punting (No.-Ave.) 3-35.6 7-34.6 Total Yards Penalized 45 52 Weather: Cloudy and cool. Attendance: 55,528 

a couple of cheap scores." 
Redirecting his comments to an evaulation of the team's performance the Irish Head Coach said, "We have improved greatly on offense over the last two weeks. I don't think there's any question about Cliff's performance today. He was excellent. Cliff finally got it all together." 
All-American Walt Patulski grabs Pitt QB John Hogan as lie ruTis the option. 
••---V- Xllnj-;/;/,­
:^;];Krf^5-'?^ 

tulane 
Tulane brought a mediocre team with a mediocre record to Notre Dame Stadium. They had lost to Ohio University (they have a football team?) by a consid­erable margin the week before. It might well have been another mediocre game, but it wasn't. 
The Green Wave from New Orleans apparently didn't realize that their meeting with the Irish would be the final home appearance for an outstanding crew of Notre Dame seniors. They didn't know what usually happens in the farewell game to foolhardy opposition. And, for the first half, neither did Notre Dame. 
The same Irish offense that had looked exception­ally sharp against Pitt the week before reverted to its old sputtering ways for the first 30 minutes of action. Twice, late in the second quarter, Notre Dame drove to within striking distance only to be shut off by an aggressive Tulane defense. From the Greenies 17 Gulyas struggled to gain first down yardage in a fourth and two situation but was stopped inches short of the mark. On the next Irish series a Bob Thomas field goal attempt from the 20 was blocked by Tulane's scrappy linebacker Mike Mullen. 
Early in the second quarter Tulane made its only big move of the game, resulting in a Greenie touch­down. The Irish were now behind in a game for only the third time of the year. Starting their drive from their own 35 Tulane went to work on the outside of the Irish defense. With the aid of a "piling on" call 
Tight end Mike Creaney lunges for additional yardage. 
against the Irish the Green Wave rolled to the ND 32. Five running plays through the interior of the Irish line brought them to the 14. Quarterback Rusty Lachausee closed the drive out with a 14-yard TD toss to his flanker, Steve Barrios, thereby providing Tulane with a halftime 7-0 edge. 
The second half saw Cliff Brown and the Irish offense regain the form they had displayed against Pitt. While the Irish defense dug in to limit the Greenies to only 78 yards total offense in the second half, the Irish offense went to work on Tulane's front line. 
At first the offense sputtered a bit, but the second time the Irish got possession they marched 66 yards for the equalizing touchdown. Brown clicked for a first down on fourth and two from the Tulane 5 to keep the drive alive. Two plays later Brown carried the fined yard for the score. 
Brown and Cieszkowski highlighted the next Irish journey to paydirt, as both came up with the big third-down play to sustain a 72-yard scoring drive. Cisco bulled his way over the right side of the Tulane line for 17 yards on third and one from the Irish 37. Facing a third and three at Tulane's 39, Brown hit Tom Gate-wood for 18 yards and another first down. Mike Creaney took an 8-yard Brown pass and Tulane de­fender Paul EUis into the end zone for the go-ahead 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

score three plays later. 
In the fourth quarter the Irish ball-control game worked to perfection again: 20 plays, 75 yards, 6 first downs, 9:13 in elapsed time and a touchdown. The Notre Dame success on third-down plays during this drive was remarkable. Five third-down and one fourth-down situations were met with success by the Irish. Brown capped the drive with his second touchdown of the day, a 5-yard keeper around left end. 
Brown's second-half play, and that of the entire Irish offense, left a deep impression on Tulane's rookie Head Coach Bennie EUender. "Y'all got a real good football team," he drawled. "You came up with the big thii-d-down plays when you needed them. Your Cliff Brown was the big difference in the game as far as your offense was concerned. He made those big third-down plays that hurt us. They kept the drive alive, and they turned things around." 
Ara cited the team as a whole for its second-half comeback against Tulane. "It was difficult for our coaches to convince our players that Tulane was as good a team as we knew them to be," he explained, "but I was really proud of the way they came from behind in the second half. It was really a team victory for us as Cliff Brown threw well and ran well, his receivers made some great catches, John Cieszkowski both ran and blocked extremely well, and our defense 
Tulane 

shut them off after their first score." 
In two weeks the Msh finally looked like a teara^ that had its offense and defense working smoothly together at top performance. Their 8-1 record was top-notch by any standards, even their own. Only one game stood between Notre Dame and their third-best record since 1952. 
Tulane 7 0 0 0—7 Notre Dame 0 0 14 7 — 21 
Scoring: TU: Barrios, 14-yard pass from Lachausee (Gibson kick). ND: Brown, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Creaney, 19-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick). ND: Brown, 5-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND , TU Total First Downs 25 11 Yards Gained Rushing 241 124 Yards Gained Passing 154 65 Total Offensive Yardage .... 395 189 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) 20-15 18-5 Interceptions by 0 0 Fumbles lost 0 0 Punting (No.-Ave.) 6-35.3 9-33 Total Yards Penalized 70 15 Weather: Sunny and cold. Attendance: 59,075 

QB Mike Walker barely releases jntchout to his fullback. 
louisiana state 
Go to hell Notre Dame, go to hell. Go to hell Notre Datne, go to JieU. Go to liell Notre Dame, go to hell. 
Notre Dcune went to hell, alias Tiger Stadium, alias The Pit; and got burned. 
"Go to hell Notre Dame" was a popular slogan down in Bayou Country for the fall of 1971. Originally, before LSU and Notre Dame initiated their two-game series, it had been reserved for the Bayou Bengals' arch rival, Ole Miss. "Go to hell Notre Dame" bumper stickers were plastered all over southern Louisiana, and outsold even Colonel Sanders' finger-lickin' fried chicken. Notre Dame's popularity in Baton Rouge apparently ranked a httle below that of General Grant. 
A year ago the Irish had dashed Tiger hopes for a Cotton Bowl bid in a 3-0 squeaker at Notre Dame Sta­dium. Following that game LSU's Coach Charley Mc-Clendon promised that "things'll be different when we get them down here next year." And, as it had been pointed out time and again throughout the '71 season, LSU had been priming themselves for their "only game of the season." Rumor had it that the Tigers had been setting aside time in all their practice sessions to ready themselves for their showdown with the Irish. And were they ever ready. 
The Bayou Bengals, in the words of "Jolly ChoUy," "took away everything Notre Dame had going for them." Short-yardage plays that met with success against Tulane couldn't get the job done against a fired-up LSU defense. 
Actually the key to the game's outcome was the flow of momentum that snowballed the Tigers' way to frenzied heights by tlie game's end. Andy Hamilton's first touchdown reception of the evening gave LSU the confidence that they could, indeed, score against the fearsome Irish defense. And when the Tiger defense shut off the Irish attack three times in the first half within LSU's 10-yard line, the momentum swung LSU's way for good. 
The failure of Notre Dame's offense to collect points these three times appeared to break the Irish spirit. Each time they failed, the Tigers' confidence in winning increased. Nothing was working right for Notre Dame and everything, it seemed, went well for LSU. 
LSU capitalized on two Irish miscues and converted them into Tiger touchdowns. Late in the second quar­ter a cuff Brown pass was intercepted by the Tigers' Capone and returned to. the Irish 32. On the next play Bert Jones, with, all day to throw," waited for Hamilton to break over the middle and hit him with a 32-yard scoring strike that sent _ the Irish to the lockers at half time trailing, 14-0. 
With 2:43 remaining in the third quarter Brown fumbled as he tried to roll around left end and the Tigers were poised for another strike on the Irish 33. Two passes from Jones to Haniilton carried the Bengals to the Irish 8. Bert Jones rolled through left tackle two plays later and loped into the end zone for a 5-yard score. That was the first time the Irish had been scored upon in the second half all season long. The Tigers weire apparently out to do more than beat Notre Dame. They were bent on crushing Irish.pride. 
Tom Gatewood closed his illustrious career at Notre Dame by notching the only Irish score of the day in the waning moments of the ball game. He beat the "great" Casanova to the right comer of the end zone to snare a 7-yard Cliflf Brown aerial to ruin the Tigers' bid for a shutout and their complete disgrace of the Irish with 2:54 left to play. 
But the Tigers weren't finished just yet. They re­covered a Scott Smith onside-kick attempt at midfield with only 2:30 left. But they didn't try to run out 
Andy Huff fails to cross the goal-line (right).
Casanova picks off a TD-hound aerial; 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

the clock. They were going to go all out for the final blow. As McClendon said, "We would've kicked a field goal if we had to, just to score on Notre Dame in the fourth quarter." ^ They didn't have to. Andy Hamilton finished a night's brilliant performance with his third TD of the game on a 13-yard Paul Lyons pass that found him all alone in the right comer of the Irish end zone. Insult to injury, to say the least. 
Ara Parseghian's worst loss as head coach of Notre Dame was a particularly distasteful one. The Tigers beat Notre Dame, make no mistake about that. They whipped 'em. But the way they did it, particularly in their fourth-quarter score, hurt more than anything else. They not only beat Notre Dame's football team; they crushed the pride and spirit of Notre Dame and left it, they thought, to rot in the swamplands of Bayou Country. 
It would be hard to end this story on an optimistic note. It certainly was not the way a team would like to close out a football season. But just remember this: you can't kill the spirit of the Fighting Irish no matter how bad you may beat the team itself. Someday in the near future Notre Dame will hopefuUy schedule LSU again. And Notre Dame wiE remember the ignominy of this game. That's when the Tigers wiU find out what the Notre Dame spirit is really like. That's when they'll discover the true meaning of the word hell. 
Notre Dame '. 0 0 0 8— 8 Louisiana State I 7 7 7 7 — 28 
Scoring: 
LSU: Hamilton, 36-yard pass from Jones (Michaelson kick). 
LSU: Hamilton, 32-yard pass from Jones (Michaelson kick). 
LSU: Jones, 5-yard run (Michaelson kick). ND: 7-yard pass from Brown (Minnix pass from Brown). 
LSU: Hamilton, 13-yard pass from Lyons (Michaelson kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND LSU Total First Downs 18 14 Yards Gained Rushing .. 172 143 Yards Gained Passing 151 156 Total Offensive Yardage 323 299 
Passing (Att'd-Com'd) _. 31-13 10-8 Interceptions by 0 3 " 
Fumbles lost „„ 1 2 Punting (No.-Ave.) . 4-39 7-36.4 Total Yards Penalized 5 13 
Weather: Clear and cool. Attendance: 68,000 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

1971 final statistics 
SCORING BY QUARTERS 

Notre Dame 52 60 48 55 — 225 Opponents 30 42 7 7—86 
TEAM STATISTICS 
ND Opp. 

To/a/Offense 3,329 1,969 Totals Plays 819 598 Yards Per Play 4.0 3.2 Yards Per Game 332.9 196.9 
Net Yards Rushing 2,321 864 Attempts 613 383 Yards Per Rush 3.7 2.2 Yards Per Game 232.1 86.4 
Net Yards Passing 1,008 1,105 Attempts 206 215 Completions 87 89 Completion Percentage 422 .414 Hod Intercepted 12 13 Touchdown Passes 5 8 Yards Per Attempt 4.9 5.1 Yards Per Completion 11.5 12.4 Yards Per Game 100.8 110.5 
Interceptions Made 13 12 Yards Returned 203 129 
Punt Return Yards 316 97 Number of Returns 36 24 Average Return 8.7 4.0 
Kiclcoff Return Yards 417 813 Number of Returns 19 37 Average Return 21.9 21.9 
Total Return Yards 936 1,039 
Average Punt 38.9 37.4 Yards Punting 2,259 3,034 Had Blocked 0 2 
Penalties Against 44 42 
Yards Penalized 442 395 
Fumbles (Lost) 20(14) 22(15) 
Total First Downs 206 110 By Rushing '. 154 48 By Passing 47 50 By Penalty 5 12 
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE 
Plays Yards Avg. 

ClifF Brown 196 922 4.7 Bob Minnix 78 337 4.3 John Cieszkowski 69 316 4.6 Larry Parker 80 299 3.7 
RESULTS 

Won 8, Lost 2, Tied 0 ND Opp. Attendance 
50. Northwestern (H) 7 59,075 (C) 
8 Purdue (A) 7 69,765 (C) 14 Michigan State (H) 2 59,075 (C) 17 Miami (Flo.) (A) 0 66,039 
16. North Carolina (H) 0 59,075 (C) 14 Southern Cal (H) 28 59,075 (C) 
TEAM SCORING PASS RECEIVING 
ND Opp. 
PC Yards Avg. TD Long

Total Points 225 86 
Gatewood 33 417 12.6 4 39 Average 22.5 8.6 
Townsend 8 95 11.8 0 23 Touchdowns 29 12 
Creaney 11 151 13.7 1 42 By Rushing 22 3 
Minnix 5 29 5.8 0 13 By Passing 5 8 
Huff 4 39 9.7 0 
n

By Return 2 1 
Gallagher 4 69 17.2 0 32 By Recovery 1 0 
Dewan 4 42 10.5 0 13 Field Goals (Made-Alt.) 5-9 0-3 
Parker 10 109 10.9 0 35 Safeties 0 1 
Diminick 2 14 7.0 0 9 PAT—Kick 24-27 12-12 
Tropp 1 8 8.0 0 -8 PAT —Run 1-1 0-0 
Gulyas 3 16 5.3 0 16 PAT—Pass 2-2 0-0 
Hill 1 7 7.0 0 7 
Casper 1 12 12.0 0 12 

INDIVIDUAL SCORING Notre Dome 87 1,008 11.5 5 42 
Opponents 89 1,105 12.4 8 42 P.A.T. 

TD'S Kick RPA FG TP 
Thomas 5 21-22 5-9 36 Minnix 5 2-0 34 RETURNS Gulyas 5 30 (Number - Yards - TD's) • Gatewood 4 24 
Intercep. Punts Kickoffs

Brown 2 3-5 15 Schlezes 4- 63-0 Huff 2 12 Crotty 2-66-1 33-297-0 Cieszkowski 2 12 Ellis 3- 34-0 Dewan 2 12 Stepaniok 3- 40-1 Parker 2 12 Garner 1- 0-0 Creaney 1 0-1 8 Hill 2- 7-0 7-147-0 Crotty 1 6 Diminick 7-199-0 Stepaniok . 1 6 Gallagher 3- 53-0 Swendsen 1 6 Rudnick 2- 18-0 W. Townsend .. 1 6 Patulski 1- 12-0 Notre Dame .. . 29 24-27 2-1 5-9 225 Notre Dame .. . 13-203-2 36-316-0 19-417-0 Opponents 12 12-12 0-3 84 Opponents ....12-129-0 24-97-0 37-813-0 
PUNTING 
No. Yards Avg. Long 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

Doherty 58 2,259 38.9 61 
TM TL-Yards PBU FR

Notre Dame 58 2,259 38.9 61 Kadish 97 8-40 6
Opponents 81 3,034 37.4 63 Marx 85 12-44 3 
Patulski 74 17-129 6 1

PASSING 
Patton 79 2-9 3 No. Comp. Int. Yards TD 
O'Molley 72 1 Brown Ill 56 9 669 4 
Musuroca ..• 66 1-4 6 5 Steenberge 47 13 1 168 1 
Crotty 65 1-1 9 Etter 26 15, 1 140 0 
Thomann 48 2-12 2 Bulger 11 3 1 31 0 Swendsen 40 11-76 3 3 Gallagher 1 0 0 0 0 Stepaniok 39 1-3 4 
Gulyas 1 0 0 0 0 Schlezes 30 1-4 6 
Parker 1 0 0 0 0 
Ellis 35 8 Notre Dame 206 87 12 1,008 5 
Ratermon 15 1 Opponents 215 89 13 1,105 8 
Zikas 21 2-23 
Webb 8 

RUSHING Garner 7 
Townsend M 5

TC Yards Avg. TD Long Freistroffer 5 1
Minnix 78 337 4.3 5 16 Sullivan 4Parker 80 299 3.7 2 20 Hoofen 4Cieszkowski 69 316 4.6 2 17 
Potempa 4

Huff 68 295 4.3 2 21 McGraw 3Brown 77 253 3.2 2 47 Hoyduk 3Gallagher 49 180 3.6 0 15 Devine 2 1Gulyas 56 220 4.4 5 19 Rudnick 1Dewan 35 119 3.4 2 9 Cloherty 1Etter 35 114 3.3 , 0 19 Tereschuk 1Hill 16 84 5.2 1 20 Townsend 1
Diminick 17 61 3.5 0 16 Steenberge 23 5 0.2 0 7 Notre Dome 59-349 54 13 Rudnick 1 2 2.0 0 2 Opponents 48-68 39 11 Bulger 4 -1 0.2 0 10 
21 - Navy (H) 0 59,075 (C) Gatewood 2 -7-3.5 0 3 56 Pittsburgh (A) 7 55,528 (C) Townsend 3 - 32 10.6 1 -34 Key: TM—Tackles Mode; TL-Yards—^Tackles made 21 .Tulane(H) 7 59,075 (C) Notre Dame ... . 613 2,321 3.7 22 47 from minus yardage to opponent; PBU—Passes Opponents 383 964 2.2 3 29 Broken Up; FR—Fumbles Recovered. 
8 Louisiana State (A) 28 66,936 (C) 
27 

coming attractions 
Denny Murphy, Notre Dame's freshman football coach, sat in his ground-floor office in the Athletic and Convocation Center and scratched a few hasty figures onto a memo pad. 
"I know the old adage that statistics are supposed to be for losers," said Murphy, "but I've figured out a few things from our last three games this year, and it's interesting the way they come out. In those last three games, we gained an average of 433 yards in total offense to 283 for our opponents. We averaged 205 rushing, and allowed 139. We averaged 228 yards in ihe air, and allowed 143. But we were outscored by an average of 21-19." 
Murphy's note pad summed up the freshman season in the best possible way. The Irish yearlings played a four-game schedule in 1971, and finished with a 2-2 record. But only three of those dates can really be called "games." Murphy's crew opened the '71 cam­paign in. Mexico City's Aztec Stadium, in an exhibition contest against a team of Mexican All-Stars. The fresh­men won that one, 80-0, and Murphy still smiles when he remembers it. 
Could Eric PenicTc (27) be anotlier Nick Eddy in 1972? 
"When you talk about our season," he said, "you can't really talk about that game in Mexico. We've got statistics for that game (statistics like 795 yards in total offense), but when you throw them in with the rest of our figures, they knock everything all out of proportion." 
So the Irish freshmen began their "real" season the week after the display in Mexico, and they began it in East Lansing, against the Baby Spartans of Michi­gan State. The frosh toppled the Spartans 38-14, and then returned to South Bend for their only home game of the season, against the Michigan Wolverines. 
But just as Murphy's freshmen swept their first two games of the season, they suffered a reversal of form in the second half, and dropped their last two outings. The yearlings fell to the Wolverines, 20-6, and were downed by Tennessee, 30-13, in the season's finale. 
In every one of their last three games, the Irish were statistically dominant. But against Michigan and Tennessee, offensive miscues (especially turnovers — the Irish committed seven against Michigan and five 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

against Tennessee) cost the freshmen their perfect season. 
Now that the season is over, though, the '71 fresh­man team has become a genuine source of blue-chip talent for Ara Parseghian and the Notre Dame varsity. 
And it's weU that this is so, for spring graduation will not be easy on the ND roster. The offensive team will lose five regulars, including Tom Gatewood, Dan Novakov, Ed Gulyas, Bob Minnix, and Bill Gallagher. But the losses suffered by the defensive unit will be much worse. Eight of the eleven starters will be leav­ing in the spring, and the ND coaches will be faced with the task of replacing three defensive linemen (Patulski, Kadish, Swendsen), two linebackers (Patton, Thomann), and the entire defensive secondary (Ellis, Stepaniak, Crotty). And that's just where the fresh­men may play a big part. 
"The defense will suffer a heavy graduation loss," said Murphy, "and some of the people I had have the physical attributes to contend for starting positions. But whether or not they'll move in as sophomores is .something else again. There's the motivation factor, and the experience factor, and this will do a lot in de­termining what will happen. The present varsity back­ups may not have a whole lot of experience, but they do have some, and that has to be an edge." 
Murphy, while he was right about the experience factor, was also right about the size factor. The fresh­men have plenty of it. Defensive linemen Kevin Cos­lello (6-5, 240), Mike Fanning (6-6, 235), Kevin Nosch­bush (6-4, 255), and Bob Sweeney (6-5, 230) could weU challenge for the three open spots beside co-captain Greg Marx in the Irish front four. But also contending for the vacancies up front will be Tom Freistroffer and George Hayduk, both of whom saw limited varsity action this season. 
The competition will probably be most intense among the linebackers, where sophomores Tom Devine, Tim Sullivan, and Gary Potempa have already estab­lished themselves as contenders. But even here there will be pressure from the first-year men. Especiedly from the likes of Sherm Smith (6-2, 214), and Greg Collins (6-3, 215). 
Despite the loss of all three starters in the ND secondary, the deep three won't be lacking much in the way of strength — or depth — when the '72 season rolls around. Ken Schlezes, Mike Townsend, and Terry Gar­ner, last year's backups, will all return to challenge for the starting roles, as will sophomore Tim Rudnick. And Murphy's roster will supply three more talented deep backs — Reggie Barnett (5-11, 180), Al Samuel (6-1, 175), and Jim Chauncey (6-0, 190). These three have the ability, but they are lacking in experience, and their value will be as added depth at a key position. 
Graduation will be a bit kinder to the Irish offense. On the line, "only" center Dan Novakov and wide re­ceiver Tom Gatewood will be leaving. Novakov's posi­tion will probably be filled by Dave Drew, but freshman Lorenzo Scott (6-3, 225) could cloud the picture before the fall opener. Everyone else — including co-captain John Dampeer — in the interior line will be returning, and the team is well stocked with depth here, too. But freshman Gerry DiNardo (6-1, 230), and Steve Neece (6-3, 240) could make their presence felt before spring practice ends. 
Tom Gatewood, who has been an Irish regular and one of the most feared receivers in the country for the past three years, will not be easy to replace. But the offense will have both ability and depth at the wide slot next year. Willie Townsend will return for his final season, but he will be pressed (or joined) at split end by a promising first-year receiver, Pete Demerle (6-1, 187). 
Demerle led the freshman team in receiving, and could very well team with Townsend next year in a split end/fianker offense. 
"Demerle has a good set of hands," said Murphy, "and he has the concentration to be a good receiver. He's certainly got the attributes to contend, but don't forget that Willie Townsend'U be back, too. We could end up using both of them. When we want to catch the ball, then we'll put our best people in." 
A core of experienced runners wiU head up the ND backfield. John Cieszkowski, Larry Parker, Andy Huff, and Greg Hill all saw time last season, and all will be returning for another campaign. But they will have competition, and much of this competition will come from a quartet of frosh backs — Eric Penick (6-1, 195), Ron Goodman (5-11, 185), Chuck KeUy (5-9, 185), and John Freeman, who played both run­ning back and linebacker for the freshmen. Fullback Wayne BuUock (6-0, 210) was injured during the latter part of the frosh season, but will be back in the thick of things once spring practice gets underway.-. 
This spring's quarterback race (the ND coaches dis­like the term "quarterback problem") is shaping up as a possible repeat of last year's. Cliff Brown, who guided the Irish varsity through the last seven games of the season, and who improved steadily along the way, will return for his junior season. Pat Steenberge will also return, and so wiU Jim Bulger, who saw some action towards the end of last season. 
But much of the spotlight during spring practice will be on Tom Clements, who was Murphy's sole-signal-caller throughout the frosh season. Clements, at 6-0, 175, passes well and is a proven scrambler. He drew raves during the season — both from the coaches and from the fans.. Still, Murphy is rightly cautious: 
"Tom Clements and Cliff Brown both did very simi­lar-type jobs for me," he said. "Their records against the same teams (Michigan, Tennessee, Michigan State) were identical (1-2), and I just don't want to compare them. Clements did a good job for me, but so did Cliff Brown. I'm not going to say that Clements is going to clear up our QB situation, and I sure don't want any­body thinking that Clements is going to be some kind of savior. 
"I can't say what's going to happen; I have no idea. But Cliff does have valuable experience, and that's bound to work in his favor." 
The experience should work in Brown's favor, just as it should work in favor of aU the returning players. But there are 13 vacancies in the Irish lineup, and Mur­phy knew what he was talking about — until the close of spring practice, it will be impossible to say just who will be filling the open positions. 
—vie dorr 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
DOONESBURY 
JZ? l/fcE TO START OFF 
THIS SECOND 3£55/0N 
. OF THE CO/sJefSESS BY 
ASfrlNe eAcH OF YOU TO 
t STATE YOUR. PARnCULAR 
I DBHANPS AT THIS TfMB. 
0./C, HARVARP!
5.^ 
yjARl 
Ck., HAP.VARD, X'^L pur you DOk/N FOR BNDim THe U/AR... 
..AM.. STAN FORD.' 
/ 

RESTRUCrC/RE ACADEMIC , 
pRioRmssi. 
OZ/.-VES^  THAT'3,  
A  GOOD ONE'. NICE­ 
lUlNKlNe,  STPiNFORP.  MORET  
.. UH.. NOTRB DAME.'  FC>OT0ALM-^  
eAMES*  

THE SCHOLASTIC 

America's Largest Family Clothing Chain 
ROBERT HALL CLOTHES 
404 WEST WESTERN AVENUE • SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
Open every night 'til 9:30 PHONE: 287-6722 
A PAULIST DOESNT 
WAIT TO BE 
ORDAINED 
TO GET INVOLVED. 
Louie's 

the fastest, the friendhest service If you think 
that ordination 
is something 
the best, the most deHcious pizza 
like graduation 
—and the time | 

we would not kid you in between isl 
similar to marking time—then you couldn't be more mistaken. 

744 N. Notre Dame Ave. The Paulists were founded 
with the belief that each man is 

233-0380 a member of the community and he contributes his own thing. Each is an individual with his own talents and he is given the freedom to use them in his own way. But not later. Now. 
For instance, during the no­vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­tional rehabilitation centers and Universities. They serve as assist­ant chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric aides. 
Paulist Seminarians create recreational programs, direct "Days of Recollection" for CCD students, direct film series, ex­periment with the use of media in the liturgy as a preaching tool, originate and edit the Paulist Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Masses, to mention just a few. 
When you commit yourself to 
POETIQUE S350 
the Paulists, it isn't a someday 
ALSO TO 2250 WEDDING RING 29.75 
LORELEI S2SO WEDDING RING 3d 75 
thing. It's now. Today. For more information about Make Christmas Really Sparkle This Year 

the Paulists write to: Rev. Don­Give the extra-special, perfect gift... a Keepsake ald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voca­diamond ring. Flawlessly clear, beautifully styled. tion Director, Room 300. , Keepsake will be a joy forever. Visit our diamond counter and see that special "Keepsake sparkle." 
pQufisl'tbthefs. 
R. K. MUELLER. INC 233-4200 
415 West 59lh Street 
218 S. Michigan St. 
New York, N.Y. 10019 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
only a game 
Down the hall, a friend of mine is listening to the Notre Dame-Louisiana State game. Every once in a while, he knocks on the door and reports the game's progress over my stereo's reports of Christ's demise in "Jesus Christ, Superstar." I'm sure someone will like to see an analogy in this, something in the line of Ara Parseghian as Christ-figure crucified at the hands of a neo-Roman/Philistine/agnostic Southern horde. Sorry, folks, nothing of the sort; at last count — biblical specu­lation aside — it was LSU 21, ND goose, with little in­dication of improvement in the Notre Dame point of view. Oh, well, it's only a game. 
There are a lot of people who will dispute that last statement, that somehow football isn't just a game, that somehow-it really is the sum, substance and goal of life, that it really is (to paraphrase a theology pro­fessor of mine) "the coming of the eschaton." I remem­ber a high school coach saying bluntly, "football is Ufe," and, by God, he meant it and expected his team to believe it. 
A larger portion of fans, coaches and players aren't quite that devoted to the game; for them, football is more of a passionate interest. Even in this larger group,' however, the opinions can be bizarre. A case in point is the reaction to the decision by the Notre Dame team not to go to a bowl game. The Notre Dame stu­dent newspaper thought it appropriate to run a cartoon depicting the football players as petulant infants. A local radio sports commentator wondered over the air why any team would pass up the "honor" of playing in a postseason game. 
I'm sure that these examples are indicative of a largely held sentiment, that the football team "owes" it to the students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame to play in a bowl game. It is as if those privileged to wear a football uniform owe a debt of another month of grueling practice, disrupted study and assorted mental and physical agonies to those who don't wear a uniform. Even at the level of a "passionate interest," football can cease being a game to become a debt of honor. I don't acknowledge such a debt and I was happy to see that the majority of the team didn't either. 
I suppose I am one of those students hinted about in "alumnus" magazine and written about (I'm told) in The Sporting News; that is, I am apparently one of the "apathetic Notre Dame students." There's a real danger in my claiming this title; there are some stu­dents here who make a point of not going to the foot­ball games, and I shudder to think I may be one of them. It's no more "right" to get stoned and not go to the games than it is to get drunk and go; to impart an objective level of truth to either one gives to the game an importance that is not really there. 
Conversely, however, I'm acutely aware of the image 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

that Notre Dame boasts(?): when informed that I go to Notre Dame, a new acquaintance invariably asks, "Oh, how's the team this year?" or states "You've got real tradition there!" OK, they've got good reason to associate Notre Dame with football, but Rockne, the Four Horsemen and pep rallies aside, those associations and my associations are not the same and neither set has any more inherent value than the other. If this is apathy, so be it. 
I just don't go to football games. I always seem to have something more pressing to do on Saturday after­noons than to sit/stand for three hours in a stadium. And I'm not alone; none of my friends regularly attend the games. I admit we're in the minority, but being in the minority does not make us wrong (nor martyrs, for that matter), it just makes us different. 
And that brings us to the question that's probably on your mind: what is this doing in the Football Re­view? Contrary to popular belief, this Review is not produced by the Notre Dame Sports Publicity OflBlce. It is produced by the same happy bunch that puts out the bi-weekly student magazine, the SCHOLASTIC; or more accurately, the Review is produced through a lot of hard work by the magazine's sports editor and some of the staff working as copy readers and layout people. What I'm getting at is, Football Review or not, this is a student magazine and I'm a student. 
If you're an alumnus, you should know about people like me, the growing minority of students who don't go to football games. I don't presume to speak for all of us, but we do have certain things in common; for ex­ample, our memories of Notre Dame wiU not center around football Saturdays. What this means is, despite the subtle and overt efforts by the administration, pub­lic relations and alumni, the Notre Dame student is changing. It's going to become less and less possible for this student to experience anything more than catharsis while watching football, less possible for him or — looking toward the future—for her to be pla­cated by organized violence on scattered autumn Sat­urdays. 
I say these things not to the students, the majority of whom already realize the limitations of football, whether they go to the games or not, but to aU the people Out There who are reading this Review and who feel justified in circumscribing the core of Notre Dame with the oval of the stadium. You can't do it, we won't let you. Notre Dame is becoming more than a Midwestern football college, its becoming a univer­sity. To become a university means to have a number of different parts; this part just doesn't go to football games. 
—mike mooney 
'^5^ 

'^"W^ 
^m !!••> ^V 
•>:

f 'i 
#^ 

it^^ "S 
w 
•^ 
•-» 
W

Nfegj^S 
l<^ 
I ;.V.*' 
& 
iV­
^;^ 
r.y^^"' 

bs-1 m^)*^ 
Now 
The first malt liquor good enough to be called 
BUDWEISER. 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

"I worked hard all summer 
to get enough bread for a down payment on my 
new bug. So I'm going to baby it!' 
You worked hard for that new car of yours. Now all you have to do is take care of it. Part of it's using the right gasoline. Amoco®. The type most new car owner manuals recommend. 
Amoco is specially formulated for your new car's anti­pollution engine. Made to help it run better, longer. And Amoco can double the life of your tail pipe and muffler compared to fully leaded gasolines; spark plugs last longer, too. 
That's why more new car buyers use Standard gasolines than any other brand. When it comes to high-quality gasolines, you can depend on Amoco and the other gasolines at Standard. All the time. 
So now that you've got that new car, use the gasoline you can count on. 
Yoi/ve got a new car We've got a new car gasoline. 
You expect more from Standard and you get it.M 
|g) Standard Oil Division of Amencan Oil Company 
T!i:jr. - s.'! 
?*te':^. 

" :-.:¥l -••V 
P; 
w^imt
mSi& 
1 1 V' -^^^^1 
^iSfifei^^i^rM'?;-' 
^?i'^ 
V 4 if tf i 
m^^ 
scholastic february 11,1972 

the college of engineering 
¥c>u might be happier atJEtna, 
We think we might have what you're 
looking for. Something 27 million people 
depend on for security and a better life. 
We'd like you to consider taking a sales management position with ^tn a Life and Casualty. We have hundreds of broad-gauge management positions, both in the field and in the home office, that pay sub­stantial salaries right from the start. They all take creativity and hard work. But the rewards can be very high. To yourself. To others. 
If the insurance business is still the Overlooked Profession to you. it's prob­ably because you haven't heard the whole truth about it yet. How fast-changing it has become. Or how sophisticated. Or that it is where the greatest variety of job opportunities are—today, insurance probably takes more college graduates than any other profession. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer 

We have jobs in all divisions of our company. If you'd like face-to-face con­tact with people we have many positions that will give you immediate contact with the public. If you'd rather deal with your co-workers and other professionals, we have those, too. Tell us your preference, and we can work it out between us. 
A brochure called "The Whole Truth" goes into the specifics on sales manage­ment as well as other opportunities. It'll tell you how ^tn a works, what it does, and how you can become part of it. It's an honest picture of an honest business. Why not stop in at your placement office and read it. 
Today, one out of six Americans looks to JEtnsi for insurance protection. You might build a successful career helping us help many more. 
OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 

LI FE& CASUALTY 
february 11, 1972 notre dame, Indiana volume 113, no. 8

scholastic 
analysis  
j.b.jim  brooks pearce  4 6  counseling, outreach and prevention inPIRG  
features  
jack  wenke  8  technological education: a perspective and an interview  
•\  14  making prisoners of facts/perspectives   an  interview  
John d. garvick 16 18  a community of speech—^farley hall possum papers  
life and the arts  
j.b. casey pociusdan o'donnell brooks and joe rundebob elliotkev cassidy  20 21 25 25 26  T-REX electric warrior 9/10 of the law death at any age de sica's genteel malaise coming distractions  
sports  
george block  30  a minor sport?  
mary  ellen stoltz  32  the last word  

editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz / art director: rick fitzgerald / editors: 
mike mooney, greg stidham, jim fanto, torn macken / copy editor: jim palenchar / sports editor: don kennedy / assistant art directors: linda v. salerno, dan o'donnell / assistant managing editor: joe runde / business: joe meyer / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: george block, john banks-brooks, kevin cassidy, bob elliot, john flannigan, marie glotzbach, phil glotzbach, mary head, bruce hooper, jim jendryx, dave jones, jerry koshinski, john linsky, pat mccracken, jim munch fred monsour, john moore, john moran, mark o'connel, jim pearce, peggy perkinson, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jack wenke, jeff wyszkowski / business and circulation: joe leahy, ron hein, jack reschauer, marty zone / art and photography: jim hunt, michael lonier, bob mcmahon, joe raymond, pam seifert. 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOL-XSTIC is printed at AVE MARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is §5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
analysis 

counseling, out reach and prevention 
There is a marvelous complex of offices and seminar rooms located on the third floor of the Administra­tion Building which frequently go unnoticed. Referred to as the Counseling Center, these rooms and people are willing and able to assist, in a variety of ways, anyone in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community from students to professors to administrators and staff. Under the chief guidance of Dr. Sheridan McCabe, former chairman of the psychology department at Portland University, Father Dan Boland, and Dr. Paul Banikiotes, the staff of approximately ten Ph.D. candidates in Graduate Education is available to discuss problems from social ahenatibn to selecting a major. 
'Dr. McCabe began the semi-autonomous center (it is not a branch of Psychological Services) in 1967 with the dual purpose of. serving the Notre Dame community and further developing the Education Department's Ph,D. prbgrani in Counseling Education. The Center provides these doctoral candidates with practical experience while serving counseling needs on carnpus; 
There are a variety of methods employed in the actual counseling, some as simple as tape-recording the counseling sessions (with one's permission) to com­plex approaches generically labeled non-directive or Freudian. However, the eriiphasis is not on the method but on the person involved; thus, the primary task of the counselor is to build a warm personal relationship in which the person feels free to discuss his or her problems. If one prefers, group counseling is also avail­able; this experience often enables one to place his problem in a proper perspective when he realizes that the particular difficulty is not unique to him alone. 

Frequently, the apparent problem of a person is interrelated with a host.of others. For instance, a student on academic probation may think the answer • to his deficiency is to be discovered in better study habits. Instead, further probing may reveal that the student is lonely, perhaps frustrated, over his inability to form close friendships or is bitter about the games college people play. The student may then understand that his academic problems are merely a manifesta­tion of greater difficulties. . , 
At any one time about fifty; people aire involved in actual counseUng, quite a small segment of the nearly 12,000 people of theNoti-e Dame-St. Mary's community. - Consequently, the Center has adopted a three-tier concept in serving the campus: the counseling function itself, outreach, and prevention. In the phase of outreach, the counselor takes the first step. For example, black students rarely entered the Counseling Center so the Center, under the primary direction of graduate student Cassel Lawson, found black counselors and moved them to a room in Alumni Hall adjacent to black concentrations. A black ombudsman service under the direction of Mike Murphy, a student at the Notre Dame Law School, was also initiated. Prevention, the third phase, sees its goal as keeping the "potential counselee" from having difficulties in the first place. This usually comes in the form of cooperation between the Center and student organizations and, in some cases, seminar classes. In 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

this way the leader or teacher is given advice on conducting a more fruitful discussion and communica­tion among the members of the particular group. Another variation of this prevention phase has been the organizing of a volunteer program of testing for sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters to test aptitude and attitude for particular vocations and college majors. 
Like any organization, the Counseling Center admits limitations, but these are overcome by maintaining cooperative relations with other services at Notre Dame. If one is having a particularly severe personal adjust­ment situation, he may be referred to the clinical staff of Psychological Services whose major concern is mental health. If a freshman finds himself par­ticularly bothered by some classes, he may be sent to the Freshman Year Ofiice. It is of note to realize that St. Mary's has its own counseling service, under the direction of Miss Mary Martucci, which works informally with Notre Dame's Center in providing the best possible service to the whole community. 
Perhaps the biggest challenge facing the Center is the ignorance of its function by those not familiar with the Center and the myth that only "nuts" could use the help offered. Rather, Dr. McCabe stresses that the Center's strongest emphasis is on helping one cope with regular life situations normally. To do this, the Counseling Center is seeking ways to be more effective but it can only be so if the members of the immediate community are willing to inquire about and use the service when in need of such help. 
The Counseling Center does not presume to know all the answers or even aU the questions, but neither is it there to fill up oflBce space between 8 and 5 weekdays. It is not there to usurp the function of the haU rector but neither is it there to be ignored and forgotten. Its task is to help one cope with the difficulties of living and growing with himself and others, and, if possible, to prevent such human problems from being so prevalent. 
j . b. brooks 

analysis 

InPIRG 
Beginning Monday, February 14, approximately 80 ND-SMC students will be soliciting signatures for a petition calling for the institution of a $1.50 under­graduate fee. The students represent InPIRG — Indiana Public Interest Research Group—and the money raised through the proposed fee would be used to finance their organization. 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group is one of 20 statewide public interest organizations in the 
U.S. All are offsprings of a plan introduced and inspired by consumer advocate Ralph Nader in 1970. The purpose of the PIRG is to augment student activism in solving social problems by hiring public interest professionals such as lawyers, scientists, social workers, and engineers, to form a coalition with the young people. 
The entire plan and philosophy is outlined in the book. Action for a Cliange: A Student's Manual for Public Interest Organizing, co-authored by Ralph Nader and Donald Ross. 
"All student activities, whether academic, poUtical, athletic, or extra-curricular, suffer from a lack of continuity," write the men. "Other groups suffer from the same problem, but with students it is especially severe. Their stay on campus is punctuated by summer vacations, midterm holidays, exams, papers, and concern with career plans. Seldom are they able to apply all of their efforts to the solution of a particular problem. . . . Students need the help of professionals in their social efforts. Professionals can bring not only their expertise—^for example, their credentials to practice law in a court—but also the continuity of fuU-time work on the problems. A coalition of students and professionals can provide a workable vehicle for students to pursue their ideals and apply their talents." 
PIRGs in Oregon and Minnesota have already proven very successful. The same is now hoped for Indiana. The theory is not to organize just one college or university in a given state, but all of them. Thus, petition drives for the $1.50 semester fee wiU be conducted at Purdue, Indiana University, De Paul, Wabash, and others, as well as at Notre Dame-St. Marys. 
The entire sum of money, which would amount to over $200,000, will finance the state organization. A budget for a PIRG is detailed in Action for a Change. According to Nader and Ross, total annual operating expenses total approximately $205,000 including salaries for 10 professionals, secretarial and clerical employees, and student summer research projects. 
• The reasoning behind the $3.00 yearly undergrad­uate fee is that it is a dependable, no-risk, guaranteed source of funds, which makes it possible to hire the professionals. The concept of raising money through more traditional means, such as contributions through dances and solicitations, was ruled out as the primary source of income. In order to insure the continuity and unity of effort that PIRG promotes, it is necessary to function on only a financial platform of economic stability. The semester fee insures this. 
The petition that wiU go into circulation Monday is the first step in establishing the financial base of InPIRG. If the response is favorable, the fee will be established and incorporated into the regular student billing system through the Director of Student Accounts. The same applies to the other colleges and universities involved in Indiana. Every student has the right to refund; no person can or will be forced to comply. 
As a public interest organization, InPIRG wiU concern itself with £iny issue concerning people: consumer affairs, corporate and government irrespon­sibility, health care, ecology, race and sex discrimina­tion, occupational health and safety, to name just a few areas of possible research. Working together, students and professionals will delve into various topics and take action where conceivable. Action is defined as confronting the party with the accumulated information, publishing the information, lobbying before courts, and ultimately filing suit in court. Once firmly established, the organization will be incorporated. 
The steering committee of the ND-SMC local chapter of InPIRG consists of Bill Rahner, John Bach-man, Dave Kusek, Tom Kelley, and Gary Nagel. Eventually they hope to develop a program with the University through which a student can earn credit for work done with the Group. They also hope to reach an agreement with the Law School and various graduate departments in order to attract graduate students. 
Hours of labor have already been put into the Indiana Public Interest Research Group, but that is no indication that the organization is really established. The "make it or break it" test is the petition. Asked what would happen if the students rejected the $3.00 yearly fee, Bill Rahner commented, "It could mean that the entire program would flop." —jim pierce 
Ralph Nailer wiU be at Notre Dame next Wednes­
day to speak on Student Action; Stepan Center 
at 7:30 p.m. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

^c^Kii^es J me. 60(M6 Ol0-ffle606 lAJ^Rkr I HAm 
WOR{C r ' HATE 

sOHerines r THIUK... WHAT A ^euep I D 
the wars continue 
over 54,000 Annericans are dead 
over 124.000 South Vietnannese are dead 
over 704.000 N.LF. and North Vietnannese are dead 
Help with your actions and prayers 
I AM MARRIEP. 

rP^»*o-5^®'^^A'^^ 
REAL LOVE AND CONCERN FOR GOD AND MAN, JOIN US IN OUR STRUGGLE AGAINST HUNGER, DISEASE, POVERTY AND IGNORANCE, AS WE SEEK TO BRING THE JUSTICE, FREEDOM AND PEACE OF CHRIST TO ALL MEN. THIS IS THE TASK OF THE DIVINE WORD MISSIONARY PRIEST AND BROTHER. TO KNOW MORE ABOUT US, WRITE: 
FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD 
DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. 20 D 
EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 
Include your age, education, interests, address, etc. 
Louie's 

the fastest, the friendHest service the best, the most dehcious pizza we would not kid you 
744 N. Notre Dame Ave. 233-0380 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
technological education: 
perspective and an interview 

It is perhaps interesting to note, with all that one hears about the negative aspects of our "technological" society, that the College of Engineering has one of the smallest enrollments at Notre Dame. How many non-science or non-engineering students really know what goes on in engineering school other than impressionistic notions about computers, slide rules and long lab hours? Unfortunately, the levels of specialization in the techno­logical disciplines have removed the "art" itself from most discussion that is not unfairly negative or naively positive. Below are the comments of the Engineering College's Dean Hogan and a number of students of the college on their discipline from their point of view. 
Dr. Joseph Hogan, Dean of the College of Engi­neering, has, on several occasions, emphatically stated his belief that the engineering student receives the most liberal education on the undergraduate level. In a recent interview he also said, "In today's modern world, technology plays a very important role in just about every aspect of society. In engineering, about one-fourth of the work that an engineer takes is in humanities and social studies areas. In addition to that, of course, he has a lot of work in science and a lot in technology. Engineers study aU of these areas and are, in fact, the only ones that have this requirement on the undergraduate level." 
The CoUege of Engineering is revamping its pro­gram. Under the new program, beginning with the Class of '73, the engineering student will be required to obtain 128 credit hours for his degree. The old pro­gram, which graduates its last class this year, requires the student to complete 144 credit hours. After com­paring the new and old programs with the program that expired in 1960 and involved 160 hours for a degree, it is evident that considerable improvement has been realized by the CoUege. The cuts (16 credit hours) were made where there existed redundancies in courses and where certain material was apparently extraneous. The student, in essence, receives the same education 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
Wm^ S'-\ 
11 
t"""p^ 
"J­
_^.;^fe-
V 
> • •
Y '--'. 0Sfe' P 
"^^ 
-n 
^ — 

without the pressure of a minimum eighteen credits per semester. The streamlining of the program is accom­panied by an increase in flexibility for the student in choosing electives. The student is encouraged to make use of the opportunity to broaden himself. According^ to Dean Hogan, "We try to spread it (the choice of electives) out so that a student is taking some liberal arts or humanistic social studies in each semester." 
An argument posed by the engineers against the pure liberal arts education is that the liberal arts major receives little or no technical training whereas the arts and letters work is exposed. 
The argument follows that since technology invari­ably affects everyone and unless some factual under­standing of its pervasive importance is acquired, whether one believes in a technocracy or not, the stu­dent wiU not really be educated for the modern world. The College of Engineering is planning to offer the Arts and Letters student various courses which will relate to the position of a non-technician in a mech­anized world. One course already available is "Man and His Environment." 
One of the pitfalls that a student of engineering may encounter is finding too specialized a par­ticular field. To prevent this from happening, the Col­lege of Engineering has adopted a "core" program which insists that every student take courses which are common to all students in each of the disciplines within the college. This gives the student greater flexibility in a very tight job market. If the engineer is aware of a broader spectrum within the science of engineering, then he would be able to adapt more easily. 
At many schools, there exists a five-year co-op pro­gram which combines work and study. When ques­tioned about his thoughts and preferences concerning the co-op program versus the four-year program used 
• -^^ ---fj 
.­
l^-'R" 
r!i 

'--k-t^ 
••-' "'^^^^ 
/"^ ^N '^"*...<­
^^'^fc^^J^ J -
. 

by Notre Dame, Dr. Hogan responded that if a student would like to spread his undergraduate training beyond four years, then the five-year co-op is very good be­cause the engineer also receives some rdated experi­ence in his work. The co-op is also a "great way to go" if financial considerations will not permit the student to attend school fuU time. All things considered, how­ever, Dean Hogan believes that, if possible, the student should complete his training in the four-year program. When judging tlie two programs, he says, "You should not compare the students on the day they graduate but five years after they enter college." Many times the student who is working in the profession under the co-op program encounters experiences "which are frequently unrelated to what he is doing in college." Dr. Hogan also states that people in industry tend to prefer the engineer from the four-year program with one year of professional experience instead of the en­gineer who just graduated from the five-year program with the work-study experience. 
The College of Engineering has been working on an interesting interdisciplinary research program in con­junction with the College of Law. The project is con­cerned with delay in criminal court cases on a non-Federal level. The Federal Government funded the project with a $191,000 grant. The engineers and lawyers worked closely together in order to build a model of how non-federal criminal court systems function. 
The next possible step for the engineering student is involvement in directing his effort to activities such as InPIRG. Although little has been done at this time. Dr. Hogan expresses hope that such activity will become popular, thereby moving the interest of the student engineer to concerns outside the immediate Notre Dame community. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

an interview 
Scholastic: Is the choice of the four-year program then mostly one of expedience; time, expense, and so forth? Or do you often wish that you had more time to take other courses? 
Students: I would like to take other courses, but not at the expense of the technical courses. This is what I will be doing all my life and I want to make sure I know something about it before I make my final commit­ment. The fields are so vast that you need all of that technical background just to get an idea what it is aU about. I would like to have more electives in liberal arts, but you can't have both. 
There is more to it than just the pragmatic. The studies can also be aesthetically pleasing. To understand one concept you must understand something else, and every­thing starts building. 
Scholastic: The new program which begins with the Class of '73 does have 16 fewer hours. Where did they make the cuts? 
Students: Some arts and letters courses have been cut out, like the change in theology requirements, some two-semester courses have been compressed into one semes­ter, some labs have been cut out. What bothers me is not so much the load, but the specializing, the fact that everything is required in the engineering school. There is very little flexibility. Another point is that arts and letters kind of bars engineers. You can't get into CAP if you're an engineer, you can't go overseas if you're an engineer. There is no way that you can take O'Malley, or Duffy or Dunne if you're an engineer. They give priority to their arts and letters people so that puts us into an even narrower field of things we might take. 
1 would have to qualify what he has said. You can get into some of those courses. I am in Father Dunne's course now. 
Scholastic: Do you think that your diflSculty in admit­tance to Arts and Letters courses is the fault of the CoUege of Arts and Letters or of the College of Engi­neering? 
Students: I think it is mostly a problem with engineer­ing. They want their kids to take just engineering courses. They don't encourage them to go out and take arts and letters courses. . 
A lot of Mds though don't want to play around with English courses or history courses. It would be nice to drop a philosophy or theology course to take something in general business because we will all be in the busi­ness world. 
The thing that you have to remember is that the Col­lege of Engineering is most interested in graduating confident engineers. 
I don't know. They started out requiring 156 cijedits in 1944 and now they are down to 128. It seems that they do things somewhat arbitrarily, doing the things that someone tells them to do. They often don't seem to have any good criteria. 
Scholastic: What about within the college, speaking about those courses you're most famihar with, have you found that they satisfy your needs to get along weU with the teachers? Do they seem to understand what your problems are? Does the quality of the department seem to be good? 
Students: The strong point of the engineering program is the one-to-one relationship of the student and pro­fessor. I've never been denied the right to talk with any professor; you could always stop in and see them. I think this is more so in engineering than any other place, because with most other courses if the professor is going to be available at all he'll say, "Well, I'm going to be in my office for two hours this day and two hours this day," whereas engineering profs are in their ofiices aU the time and you can just walk in. You don't have to ask if you can come over: you just come, at any time, with any questions. 
Another good point about the Engineering Department is that a lot of our courses are smaller, not like fifty kids in a class, but more like twenty. 
Scholastic: Have you found in your thinking that you are trained to approach a problem in a certain way, for instance technically more research oriented or prac­tically oriented? 
Students: I wouldn't say it's so much research as the­ory. The general trend among most professors is to get a little more practical, you get thrown out into the world to make a living, and unless you've got a book to check the theory you're lost. That complaint has been made a lot, and the explanation that you get most often is that once you get out of here you are going to be in practical situations all your life, so it's good for you to be exposed to the theory now. The majority of com­panies, once you go with them, are going to take you with the understanding more or less that you know nothing about the practical side or your field; you have 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
the background to learn it. I have come to think that is what these four years of engineering are for: to teach you a way of thinking,- how to find things out, and to give you a general background. 

Scholastic: How do you look at the current ecological drive? You are set to go into the job market now. Has this affected your thinking at aU? Has it made you think about different things? Just how do you feel about it? 
Students: It's come up more and more recently. Just seeing the things we discuss in class, I would have to say we are much more ecologically oriented. They've added some more courses like the Environmental Health. It's as obvious as it is anywhere else. It's slowly working its way up. 
Everyone is becoming more aware of it now, and in designing a new system, we have to be more aware of it. But, I think before someone you would classify as a good engineer has to be. He had to look at what he was doing, at what effects it would have. Maybe he didn't always consider what he was doing, for instance, in designing a nuclear power plant which would raise the temperature of a lake one degree, to be significant. But, he always has been concerned with what he was doing and how it would affect the environment. The problem is new to the engineer. He may know what is going to happen, but he would be told by the company to go ahead and ignore it because it would be too expensive to correct the problem. And it might be the managerial part of the company. The engineer is given a problem, and he is supposed to solve it. He doesn't present him­self with a problem; he's given a problem. He just fol­lows orders. 
Scholastic: You don't see that like a responsibility to the citizen, then? 
Students: I think it's his responsibility to let the com­pany know what the situation is. What else can he do ? Quit his job and go somewhere else and find the same situation? 
I think there is a much greater sense of responsibility on the part of engineers just as there is a much greater sense of responsibility on the part of everybody. It's a question of national interest now. But as far as the engineer is concerned, I think there is a great deal of interest in just solving the problem of stopping pollu­tion and worrying about the problem of pollution. 
Scholastic: Is there anything anybody doesn't like about the College of Engineering? 
Students: We've got too many hard classes. I think the engineers have far more arts and letters courses than the arts and letters majors have technical courses. 
The engineer has an advantage in our society. Ours is a "how-oriented" society, interested in technological advance. One thing I don't like about engineering stu­dents and professors at Notre Dame is that I don't think they have the open, the thinking mind that I notice in the liberal arts students and professors, who are asking why. They [the liberal arts students] are asking, should things be done this way? Is our society going in the right direction or should it be completely changed around? Does the direction of the University of Notre Dame need to be turned aroimd? 
I personally look on engineering as some sort of game you play. You have this problem and your aim is to solve it. It's like a crossword puzzle. You can get so caught up in playing that game that you forget about everything else. It is sort of evil because your mind is directed in one way solving insignificant little games. Sometimes you don't even have time to sit down and think about other things. 
TH E SCHOLASTIC 

Scholastic: Do you think this problem would be alle­Another point is that a lot of people come in here think­
viated if you were allowed more flexibility in what ing they want to be engineers. Then they run into 
courses you can take? chemistry, calculus and physics and they find out they 
don't really want to be engineers after all. And now 

Students: That depends on the person. For me, I am in­the drawing power of surplus jobs isn't there anymore 
terested in engineering because that is what I am going and a lot of kids are dropping out. But with the engi­
to be doing, that is what my interest is. Sometimes you neers who are coming in a lot more are staying with it. 
get into a Collegiate Seminar or a philosophy course You don't have so many who are not sure. 
and the people get into these big discussions about the 

intrinsic value of a book, which really doesn't interest Besides the economic situation, I think there is another 
me at all. Maybe the book is a work of art, but that factor. A lot of people in high school are questioning 
doesn't interest me. An engineering course seems more priorities, and the big thing for America is no longer 
worthwhile to me. building spaceships. Another factor is that you come 
into contact with very few people in engineering while 
in high school. Most of the teachers are liberally edu­

Scholastic: You have said that you wish you had more cated, arts and letters oriented. 
time to sit down and think about things other than en­
gineering. 
Students: I think it would be good if the student were given that option, given more flexibility. I also think it would be better if arts and letters students took more technical courses. 
The way our program is set up, if you want a good engi­neering degree there is no way you can get any ex­posure to anything else. 
I don't think there is any reason that engineering should be sacred. Science schools, business schools, and arts and letters schools have four-year programs that are flexible. I don't see why engineering should be held up as something where you need eight more courses in it to get a degree. I think a lot of my courses in engi­neering were repetitious and I could have been a more successful engineer by taking flve fewer courses and substituting anything I wanted to. 
Scholastic: If they let engineers be in CAP what would your advantages be in that? 
Students: I guess the major advantage of it would be more flexibility. It would enable more engineers to get into courses that they wanted to get into. They'd let me take an engineering course on an independent study basis. That way I could listen to some lectures over in O'Shaughnessy that I'd rather listen to. 
That can be done though. 
Yes, but I wish it could be done as a standard engineer­ing program. It seems to me it could be integrated into the department. At least for students with 3.5 averages or above. 

Scholastic: It seems that the number of students going into engineering is declining. 
Students: That is because of the jobs. When we came in we were told that there were 60,000 jobs opening up every year for only 30,000 engineers. And now that just isn't so. 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
making prisoners of facts 
Scholastic: In light of the recent Pentagon Papers inci­dent, to what extent do you feel that documents are overclassified or classified merely to protect someone and cover up shoddy decision-making? 
Russo: I think that when you look at the entire range of classified documents, almost aU of them could be made public. There are just a very few that are of a nature which would hinder national security. Most of them are classified because presidents, politicians and bureaucrats'want to protect themselves by doing things in.secret. 
Scholastic: Could you give an example of a document that you would keep classified. 
Russo: During World War H, I would keep ship move­ments, troop deployments, and information of the size of our forces classified, for example. You see, I think that there is a difiference between secrecy and discre­tion. "When you keep something secret, it's like keeping a fact prisoner. -When you are discreet with this fact you use judgment in disseminating it. That really is the essence of diplomacy and the essence of the art of politics; to use judgment in disseminating information. For the most part information in the U.S. government has been sentenced to life imprisonment. 
Scholastic: One last question: how would you respond to the charge that the Pentagon Papers were useless because the Papers were in large part contingency plans, and that contingency plans have been drawn up for virtually every possibility? ' 
Russo: That's not true at all. The papers are for the most part a history of what actually went on. When they refer to contingency plans they simply refer to contingency plans per se^ without going into the details of the plans. Besides, it is a matter of.record that when you go to the trouble of planning big operations and big moves, you are to a great extent issuing a self-fulfilling prophecy. When a contingency plan is made you increase the likelihood that it will happen. 
Scholasfic: Do you feel that Mr. Buckley's contingency plan, published in the National Review^ was not rele­vant? 
-an intervie>/v 

ing with Mr. Buckley's character. 
Scholastic: What do yoU think of the way the New York Times handled the publication of the documents? I imderstahd that Mr. EUsburg was somewhat critical of the reporting. 
Russo: They held back pubUcation of ninety percent of them and I am very critical of that. That puts them in the. same position as the U.S. government. They are stiU withholding documents from the American people.: They should publish them all. 
Scholastic: What about the book version of the docu­ments that the Times published? 
Russo: That amounted to about ten percent of the documents. I would recommend the Beacon Edition, known as the Senator Gravell Edition which has the entire set of the Pentagon Papers. It would take a great deal of time to read the entire set, but I would recommend that people just buy the set, read any page at random and they will find a scandal. 
Russo: I feel that it was very foolish and quite in keep-
THE SCHOLASTIC 

wouldn't you? 
FEBRUARY. 11,1972 
perspectives 

a community of speech 
The following proposal has been made by the Far­ley Hall Constitutional Revision Committee. The SCHO­LASTIC believes tJiat the proposal deserves campus-wide discussion. Since many people on campus have not experienced seminars as this essay understands them, it is important not to read but to talk about the subject matter of the essay. Such a conversation could become a model of this type of seminar. 
Bad times seem to be associated with serious reflec­tion. Such was the case of a Greek whose Imperial city had ceased to shine and whose courts had just condemned, his best iriend. This man thought and wrote dialogues. The rumors, perhaps totally un­founded, that Farley would be the hall converted into a women's residence sparked a common, reflective process about the way we live together. For us, now, it is a conscious problem. Carpe Z)iem_, that ignoble phrase, has been exposed in all the starkness of its isolated, lonely way. We are—^to some extent—and desire to be together in a more conjoined manner; in fact, a way which shines. 
Realizing that politics and,government refer not only to a particular distribution of oflBces but also to a way of life, and ihai far too often too much attention is paid to the'former at the expense of the latter, we, the students of Farley Halli after serious reflection and conversation establish-the following as the way we envision. . ^ V 
—farley hall 
Realizing that the present system for selecting rooms each year encourages the principle of selection to consist of considerations such as plumbing, we pro­pose that people who wish to live together be permitted and encouraged to do so. Such groups or neighborhoods will naturally have their own particular character and will be encouraged to live accordingly bounded by the good order of the hall and university guidelines. It has been our experience that to say the whole haU forms a community is a meaningless statement. Living among us are men who possibly cannot love and others who are not interested in loving their, fellow students. In fact, there are many men among us, who due to merely the physical layout of the hall, do not know many of their fellow residents. Of course, there are the limita­tions of human nature. Yet, we know from our experi­ence, that smaller groups' within the hall canUve to­gether as a community in the sense that they care for and indeed love one another in the Christian sense. This is to be • encouraged .through the formation of neighborhoods. , ", : 
Realizing that our life together revolves not merely around convenience, and desiring some broader goal which is not adequately formulated as a community of active love, we propose to celebrate our togetherness in a major way—excluding considerations of common recreational activity which must and should continue— by forming a community of speech. Such a celebration 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

and community of speech is to be formed by holding various seminars within the hall; comprising only members of the hall. Qualified staff will conduct these seminars. Suggested seminars are: Freshman English Seminar and the Freshman Colloquium, Sophomore English, Theology, and Philosophy, CoUegiate Seminar and Senior Theology, and Philosophy. The Rector and Assistant Rector will lead the Theology and Philosophy Seminars while the Resident Assistants will lead Fresh­man Seminar and Collegiate Seminar. Of course, these men will have to be qualified in their respective areas. Seniors in the hall will lead the Freshman Colloquium. These seminars, within the limits established by their respective departments, will focus on several questions. The foremost question among these is what does it mean to be a man? The next question which naturally arises from the first is how do men act or what do men do? The third and perhaps the most important question is how do men live together? Of course, this precludes a certain view of the function of a seminar. The seminars, as we envision them, will be comprised of students in" the hall bound together not by accident of sdphabet or whim of the computer, but by awareness of their common problem and their wonderings about it. There will be, of course, one among them who has. been wondering about the same thing except for perhaps a longer time; in other words, there will be a teacher— a student in disguise. They will meet to discuss, clarify and possibly even solve their problem on a regular 
basis. Naturally, they will rely upon the testimony of others who have shared their problem—they will read books. In other words, we will have seminars within the hall. There are other questions which could be considered such as what is.education and what are we doing here? K it is of little significance that men can graduate from an institution of higher learning without even knowing why they were there in the first place or even being in a suitable position to ask such a question. Another question will naturally arise—and hence be a real and personal one—due to the division of the hall into neighborhoods. Since there will be groups of men leading, within limits, different lives, the question of how one should live naturally arises in an immediate, tangible way. These are some of the. questions we must ask each other. 
These goals, if realized, promise to enrich our edu­cational experience. Ih fact, education in the sense that we use the term promises to mark us. Men of Farley in the future will be known by the questions they ask and their awareness of many of the core prob­lems of life. In fact, men of Farley will be marked by the seemingly simple knowledge that such core questions must be asked of other men. Such men will be not only reflective but also essentially engaged with other men. The model of the.whole process consists of seniors talking to freshmen, regularly about serious, common things. 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
perspectives 

the possum papers 
—John garvick 
For all the complexity of his mindj he was fundamen­tally simple, with regard for his acquaintance and a deep affection for his friends. . . . By his being he com­manded respect; by his response to one's own being he nurtured the profoundest andrnost lading affection. 
—Bonamy Dobree, 
"T. S. Eliot: A Personal Reminiscence." 
Eliot the poet cannot challenge and disconcert us as he should, until Eliot the man is made to emerge from, the shadows amid which he concealed himself. 
—reviewer. Times Literary Supplement, December 10, 1971. 
One could, of course, say similar things about Swift or Johnson. Mutato nomine, de te fdbular narratur: strange, that the same personality should lend itself to purposes so glaringly opposed. But who, for the sake of an argument, was Eliot? When did he exist? 
Others abide these questions. The mature Ehot was free, or gives increasing impression in his poems of having become so. Not for Eliot the prison of self; not after the early emotional disorder, "the Lausanne spe­cialist," the retreat to a fashionable seaside resort— 
On Margate Sands. 
I can connect 
Nothing with nothing. 
This experience, it appears, was crucial. Ash-Wednesday suggests, almost establishes, that EUot was familiar with the night, and found the self there to be a profane and liberal counsellor. Among us, however, we count those who would—^perhaps by grinding articles from numerous professional journals into a fine dry powder and sprinkling them on the poet's grave—^in effect sub­poena the unpleasant Mr. Eliot to testify against him­self, under the bold stare of an academic justice that elucidates and explains all mysteries. (We can collate these selves, formulate them, make them sprawl on a pin.) To be the Dante of one's age is to be fatally in­teresting. 

But Eliot's reputation has been somewhat en baisse in the universities. Notre Dame, on the other hand, has recently witnessed some mild stirrings of interest in his work; an odd business given the times, for Eliot valued order in other than strictly personal and political terms. Now, his earliest plans for wresting the soul from the dilemma of self and mob, plans long since exposed in the journals, are laid barer still in a new book from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich edited by Valerie Eliot 
Valerie Eliot, secretary and second wife to the poet, executrix of his estate, proves adequate to a hard job: the facsimile and transcript of the original drafts of The Waste Land, including the annotations of Ezra Pound, represent one of the most important literary dis­coveries of the present century, and have the power to disarrange the entire Eliot mystique. Speculated about for years, thought by many not to exist, the vanished drafts grew into a modern legend; their "occultation," as Poimd says in a brief preface to the texts, "is pure Henry James." We smile, of course, and think of The Aspern Papers; at any rate we have Mrs. Eliot's busi­nesslike explanation of how the drafts were recovered. 
Here then are the Possum Papers. We learn from them in many respects: they give us much better in­sights than we deserve into the creative process at a great poem; they give us painfully sharp ideas of a poet's personal hell; they inspire significant moral con­troversy, because the current critical claims about Eliot's human incapacity, "the general dysfunction of humane values," are served here to the last misogynist peccadillo. But most pointedly, I think, they make it im­possible for us to misunderstand the nature and value of fragments shored against ruins. 
That the original title of The Waste Land was He Do the Police in Different Voices, is clear from the first page of typescript reproduced by Mrs. Eliot. Should this amaze, there are further surprises at once, because the original first section offers fifty-five lines of apprentice satire: 
THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD. 
First we had a couple of feelers down at 
Tom's place, 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
There;was old Tom, boiled to the eyes, blind, 
(Don't you remember that time after a dance, 
Tops hats and all, we and Silk Hat Harry, 
And old Tom took us behind, brought out a 
bottle of fizz. 
With old Jane, Tom's wife; and we got Joe 
to sing 
"I'm proud of aU the Irish blood that's in me, 
"There's not a man can say a word agin me") 

Here is an Eliot coming too close. (In draft, the poem is generally much more constrained by emotional in­volvement, by the particulars of space and time, than it is in the final version. The dues-paying passages struggle grimly toward what Eliot calls, in "Tradition and the Individual Talent," the impersonal emotion of art. A re­reading of that essay can inform the experience of studying the drafts.) But one turns to the next page, and finds a second passage, headed "2": 
April is the cruellest month, breeding 
Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing 
Memory and desire, stirring 
Dull roots with spring rain. 
Winter kept us warm. .. . 

This is more in Eliot's style. The disparity between the 
two beginnings is as great as any in the world, and thus 
the typescript of the false start is simply cancelled in 
Eliot's hand with a few decisive pencil strokes. 
Soon we encounter the marginalia of Ezra Pound. 

These mostly show an assured judgment at work, help­
ing Eliot weave the sonic tapestry of the poem. The sum 
of Pound's contributions gives evidence that he is no 
less than the editor of The Waste Land; Pound played 
Perkins, in other words, to Eliot's Wolfe. 
And yet there is hardly anything in the set of drafts that could be confused with Pound's own meter and poetry. T7ie Waste Land,, let the papers prove, is Eliot's poem. Some of the right words, though, come from Pound—"demotic" as a more precise term for Mr. Eugenides' otherwise "abominable" French, and, what is more vital, the expression "demobbed" to improve Eliot's verse, . 
When Lil's husband was coming back out of the Transport Corps. 

Sometimes Ehot decides not to follow Pound's sug­gestions. Pound used a disparaging term, "photogra­phy," to describe the passage beginning "My nerves are bad tonight. Yes, bad. Stay with me," and made a similar remark against 
. 'Are you alive, or not? Is there nothing in your head?' 
But instead, the actual revolution that Eliot effects in poetic diction—following the example of such innovators as Dryden and Browning, who employ a selection of language really used by men—^is allowed to develop freely, and the language of cockney speech we are given in the Lil and Albert section finds its upper-middle class counterpart just as it should. Here, as a result, Eliot's 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
own sense of structure emerges, weighing and balancing. 
To dwell for a moment on the potentially notorious, there appear a few scatological passages in the drafts that Eliot and Pound decided, not unhappily, to strike. There is one in particular from a long section of pen­tameter couplets, after Pope, and a related passage which establishes the young man carbuncular as a beastly fellow indeed: "probaly [_sic] over the mark," Pound wrote in advising deletion of the errant verses. Critics hostile to Eliot's general view of man will profit from these sections, which in any case recall Juvenal and sometimes read like a Rape of the Lock composed by a misfiring Swift. 
Mr. Peter du Sautoy, Chairman of Faber and Faber, Ltd., states in a recent letter to the Times Literary Supplement that he hopes "there wiU one day be a fuU­scale authorized biography in spite of Eliot's wish to the contrary"; he adds, "there will certainly be a very full collection of letters published." The autobiographi­cal implications of The Waste Land drafts ought to be served thereby; in the meantime, we can get on quite well by honoring the letter and spirit of a certain me­morial tribute: 
Am I to write '^abouf the poet Thomas Steams Eliot? or my friend 'the Possum^? Let him rest in peace. I can only repeat^ but with the urgency of 50 years ago: READ HIM. 
—E. P. 

Known for his incisive juxtapositionings of Anthony Burgess, T. S. Elliot and Fidel Castro, Mr. John D. Garvick is an Assistant Professor in the Department of English. 
T-REX 
electric warrior 
The album cover gives it away completely. There's this picture of Marc Bolan, all five-feet-four of him barely clearing his amp, banging out those bouncy be-bop chords. 
To elucidate. Marc Bolan, guitarist and composer for T. Rex, is an elf, androgyny, not of this world, or all of these. Moreover he is a poet, and not just because his lyrics happen to read well. It might be more correct to say that his poems sing well. We all know who he's talking about when he writes: 
O Girl Electric witch you are Limp in society's ditch you are Visually fine O yes you are But mentally dying. 
And the metaphors get weirder all the time. Witness this stanza from "Jeepster": 
Just like a car You're pleasing to behold I'll call you Jaguar If I may be so bold 
But lyrics alone don't make good composition; the music, as well as the lyrics, is Bolan's vehicle. T. Rex moves with a simple, shuffling rhythm and an almost uncanny ability to make it work time and again. A song like "Get It On" is sweet and sexy; classic rock and roll. It's positively contagious. 
This isn't meant to imply that the band isn't versatile. Quite the opposite is true. This is their first electric album since the big switch. When you consider that they had something like four straight number one's in England the change becomes even more significant. Not many groups have the necessary talent and guts to pull off such a switch. 
Still, if you're a purist, this album won't disappoint you. The band. rolls rather than rocks, having ­retained much of the soft, melodic quality from its acoustic days. The sound isn't as dense as that of other bands but it never.fails to get you off. 
—casey -podits 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

9/10 
of the law 
Americaj Inc.; Who Owns and Operates the United States. Morton Mintz & Jerry Cohen. Introduction by Ralph Nader; Dial Press, $10.00. 
The masters of the govei'nment of the United States 
are the cornbwied capitalists and manufacturers of the 
United States. It is written on every intimate page of 
the records of Congress^ it is written through the his­
tory of conferences at the White House, that the sug­
gestions of economic policy come from one source, not 
many sources. 
Woodrow Wilson 

Anyone who has bothered to think about the present state of our economy or to trace any political dilemma back to its economic synapses must surely respect the wisdom of these words. Morton Mintz, an investigative reporter for the Washington Post, and Jerry Cohen, former chief counsel and steiff director of the Senate Anti-Trust and Monopoly Subcommittee, have given us a study that combines exhaustive research with intelli­gent, often amusing, analysis. The result is a fine balance between scholarship and readability, on a topic that begs for excesses on either side, and the achievement is singular. 
Before any consideration of the specifics of Amei'ica, Inc., it is necessary to mention what the book is and what it is not. It is a thoroughly documented investiga­tion into the abuse of corporate responsibility and the non-use of legitimate power. It is an indictment of eco­nomic theories, such as countervailing pov/ers and eco­nomic pluralism, that premise "self-correcting mecha­nisms" inherent in man's economic behavior. From Nader's introduction: 
These depredations are part of a raging corporate radicalism which generates technological violence, undermines the integrity of government, breaks laws, blocks needed reforms, and repudiates a quality-competitive system with substantial con­sumer sovereignty. If radicalism is defined as a force against basic value systems of a society, then the corporate state is the chief protagonist. 

This last remark implies what the book is not. It is not a "New Left" reader, and its implications, if studied seriously, are anything but "liberal" in the proper sense of the word. America, Inc. is reformist and anti-Social­ist, arguing with traditional capitalist elan that a sys­tem of free enterprise, truly free enterprise, that is qual­ity competitive and not corporately managed, is the most conducive to democratic change and the most li­able to foster the expression of individual freedoms. Sound like Milton Friedman? Well, except for the hard­headed insistence on truly free enterprise, it does. Be­cause, for Mintz and Cohen, enterprise in this country is neither "free" nor anything remotely resembling "qual­ity competitive." It is, by and large, a system of "private socialism" and the conservative faith in the "benign nature of business" only obfuscates this fact. In short, one must have free markets before one can speak in­telligently of a "free market analysis." But Mintz and Cohen are as adamantly opposed to the state that func­tions as a giant corporation as they are to the giant cor­porations that function as a state. 
Operating on the assumption that there is no auto­matic correlation between "bigness" and eflBciency and that "concentrated political power, no matter in whose hands, weakens and may destroy democratic institu­tions," Mintz and Cohen set out to analyze the criminal negligence and oftentimes ludicrous ineptitude of the so-caUed "giants of industry." Rather than catcdogue the most salient abuses I will simply note a few of the more characteristic as they trace Am,erica, Inc.'s larger concerns. 
Does modern technology necessitate corporate giant­ism? Both John Galbraith and James Roche, chairman of the board of General Motors, would argue that it does. The facts, though, as Mintz and Cohen see them, would indicate otherwise. By reducing work-hours, devices such as the computer should be a boon to smaller manu­facturers. They should be the "great equalizer" and not a force toward greater concentration. 
Objection: "WeU, though the possession of techno­logical facilities may not, the development of improved facilities does require corporation-sized capital, isn't that right?" Wrong again. Giant corporations have a tendency to balk at creative research. Take, for example, the jet engine, which was developed by two independent inventors who could find no funds or no interest at established aircraft firms. Or the airplane itself, or the 
vacuum tube, or the self-winding watch, or air-condi­tioning, all of which were invented and developed with­out the aid of the "giant." What we now know as Kodachrome was discovered by two musicians working in their kitchen sink between concerts. Why? Super-corporations with billions of doUars invested in an in­dustry invariably have a good percentage of that money tied up in methods of production. Hence, they are usu­ally reluctant to admit changes that would substan­tially alter those methods and necessitate new capital outlay. Chrysler's failure to market a relatively pollu­tion-free gas turbine engine despite the fact that its engineers had developed such an engine as early as 1954 is a good case in point. The major auto industries chose instead to improve auto engines by increasing the compression ratio because such an "improvement" would minimize alterations in method. Higher compres­sion necessitates gasolines with higher octane, more lead and more pollutants. 
In fact, according to economist John Blair, eco­nomic concentration is most likely to occur in industries where the tehnological advance can be held to a mini­mum, such as the food industry. Here competition can be eliminated not by better quality or lower priced products but by expensive advertising campaigns, se­cured at the lower rates which television and radio net­works have so obligingly made available to their "big­gest customers." These paralegal and sometimes illegal fringe benefits, rather than "profits" per se^ are the prime motivating factors in the drive towards economic concentration and must, therefore, bear much of the responsibility for the subsequent abdication from cor­porate responsibiUty. Indeed, the term "corporate re­sponsibility" may be a misnomer. It is peculiar to capi­talist countries that they tend to see corporations as an organic unity capable of experiencing values and liable to such virtues as responsibility. This philosophy ex­pledns the government's disinclination to charge the executives responsible for their corporation's criminal behavior. The corporation, as a collective entity, is no more capable of being responsible than the state is of loving. 
But there are profits, in terms of tax privileges and stock value, attached to the very process of merging— profits, I might add, that are entirely within the power and scope of the government to regulate. A "good" ac­countant can take two poorly managed firms, combine them, and report their earnings in such a way as to trick big investors into giving the conglomerate a higher "earnings ratio" than it should have. Meanwhile, these corporations razzle-dazzle the public with useless style changes and fix prices in order to ehminate com­petition. As Mintz and Cohen observe, "pricing decisions within an industry may be directed not in the individual boardrooms of the'competing corporations, but from the single boardroom of one bank." Is this not conspiracy? 
And how has the federal government responded to this crisis? For the most part it has encouraged and reinforced corporate expansion, making it lucrative for companies, in effect, to steal from the public. According to the editors of the Antitrust Law and Economics Be­vieWj "anywhere from $174 to $231 billion consumers spend each year may buy no product value." A $3,000 minimum income for all families in the United States 
would cost $11 billion per annum. In 1969 we spent $27 billion on the war in Vietnam. "Crime in the suites," as Mintz and Cohen call it, is far more costly to the Ameri­can public than crime in the streets, and the government "coddles" economic criminals rather than political pris­oners. The same Congress that refused to initiate a food stamp program to feed hungry children granted $199.5 million in subsidies to corporate shipbuilders. The same corporate farmers who decry "handout" heailth benefits to migrant workers accept unparalleled handout subsi­dies from the federal government. Due, in part, to the oil industry's campaign "contributions" and, in part, to the number of senators with oil holdings (e.g., Russell Long), the government has seen fit to allow oil com­panies to pay taxes at 8% instead of the usual 40% and to benefit from an import quota system that, according to former Labor Secretary George P. Schultz, costs the American public over $5 billion each year. As Mintz and Cohen are quick to point out, corporate campaign "con­tributions" are not contributions at all but investments in the future. 
Many of these corporate dealings present a clear and present danger to this country's ability to decide crucial matters because they, in fact, exercise control over the dissemination of information about those matters. Take, for example, the Radio Corporation of America, which owns the National Broadcasting Company. RCA is also one of the country's leading defense contractors. Could this vested interest influence the way NBC news pro­grams present, say, the debate over military expendi­tures? The question is not "do" but "could" they and the distinction is crucial to ATnei-ica, Inc.'s basic argu­ment. For the law is not, primarily, a system for punish­ing offenders any more than freedom is merely the negative measure of tyranny. Rather, law in a demo­cratic society is aimed at minimizing the potential for almse and, as such, concerns itself not with heroes and criminals but with ordinary men. 
What do we say, then, to oil companies that gobble up holdings in the coal industry? Or to television sta­tions and newspapers that buy up CATV franchises? When the Avco Corporation uses one of its many sub­sidiaries to buy television and radio stations in Cincin­nati and San Antonio, television stations in Columbus and Dayton and Indianapolis, and radio stations in San Francisco and Washington, D.C., while at the same time receiving $500 million a year in defense contracts does a conflict of interests arise? Does a potential for abuse exist? Who's kidding whom, Spiro Agnew? The point to be recognized here is that while an individual may pos­sess rights, such as the right to private property, the government has the responsibility to limit the exercise of these rights so far as they degradate the com­monality of a society by infringing on the rights of other persons. The same people who would argue against unlimited freedom of speech scream "Communist" at those who would put a limit on the accumulation of wealth, when the distinction between "possession" and "exercise" is clearly more relevant to the latter. What William F. Buckley writes in the National Review in no way prohibits me from writing what I wish to write here. But when H. Lamar Hunt makes another million next week that is one million dollars that John Smith cannot make. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Mintz and Cohen recommend, first of all, that cor­porations be chartered by the Federal Government in­stead of by the State. This recommendation is by no means new. It goes aU the way back to Alexander Hamilton and the debate over the chartering of the 
U.S. Bank. Federal charters would allow for a uniform code that could limit business activities and stimulate competition. Delaware, a state justly notorious for its love affair with corporations, allows corporate ofiicials to be reimbursed by their own companies for criminal fines. 
The authors also recommend a limited number of "government owned enterprises to provide the services that any society purporting to be rational and humane must provide." Private industry, of course, would be en­couraged to compete with these companies. The TVA is a prime example of a government-owned business that has stimulated competition while still managing to make a profit. 
Regulatory agencies that really are "regulatory" would be another step in the right direction. This is not an unreasonable demand. It would mean, for example, a Food and Drug Administration whose ex-members would not so consistently pop up as vice-presidents of Parke, Davis & Company. It would mean an agency whose members had the integrity and courage to de­termine what is a "natural monopoly" and what is not. 
American Telephone & Telegraph, for example, may well be a "natural monopoly." But AT&T's insistence that only Western Electric phones be used on their lines is surely unnatural. Needless to say, AT&T owns West-em Electric in toto. 
If there is one underlying principle to be cuUed from Americaj Inc.'s research, it is that, given time, economic power invciriably translates into political power. One must exercise political power to clean up economic abuses and that is quite a task when one cannot separate the politicians from the businessmen. For these reasons, Mintz and Cohen's recommendations for financing: po­litical campaigns deserve special attention. The authors would have us adopt the British system whereby no candidate or party may buy television time or adver­tising. Instead, each major party is allotted a given number of free television spots to be used for political purposes. Under the American system as it exists today, political oflice is secured by those candidates who most successfully indenture themselves to private interests. Mintz and Cohen would eliminate altogether the use or acceptance of money from private sources. K there is one thing this country can afford it is money to improve the electoral process. And, in fact, without such a sys­tem Mintz and Cohen's proposals are no more than wishful thinking. 
dan o^donneU 

ACQUISITIONS OF TEXTRON, INC. 1943-1968 
CONGLOMERATE  
I  
TEXTILES | M •Mom Br MM)  AIRCRAFT AND PARTS  INDUSTRIAL FASTENERS  I  DIE CASTINGS  |­ ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION  
CAWCAM SeXEW * UAMUfACTuKtwa  EQUIPMENT  
COMP^ NKIIO M in. (M S  
ACCESSOftT MOOMCIS COW  «IA4.NEIt •nOTHIItS, t- 
LONWALECO,  lOWMSEHOCO H>*Br>antor »a.l* w  
tll«lMln« iMtl'lf^ nMK Eun*. tota- METAL STAMPINGS  AMEMCAN CnOSSAMl A CONOUT CO  
MMVIUE JC)tC«£S COXP-.  •ELL AlKtULTT con*  THCBAMOALICO.CWCMMB D W >« •  
- i,ai.i»4 s  
M>nc. UHMa. AMw i  •ca Cars. wM ] «»•»  aoots AincKAfT Hut co^p  
cosscTT MILLS, I»*(  BROADCASTING  
autmCAM SCMW CO  EQUIPMENT  
NASHUA MANUr«CTUniMO CO  ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT  TUBUtAO nvET A $TUO CO  METAL PIPE  (LOIN NATIOHAL MATCH CO  
IHC ESMOND MILLS. IHC i  EABMCAtEO MOCUCTS CO  AND TUBING  
CnowCU TUflE CO INC  PAINTS  
EMDW I Vinn..t>e TIM yMnM-Ban* Wig Ca  MTAN iNOUSTMtS. INC  BOSTiICn (MC  A VIM corny NM M N J tt u  
M w SATES nice an ino**s mc  
CoRM »ra*d -».«w TMiiri  CAUFOMtlA TEC^4tlCAL INDUSTMEa  tUinWIL UANur ACTUM MC 'HC  
BATHROOM  
CLOflE CtECTACNICS  FIXTURES  I K. pomtm CO »•*  
IRON AND STEEL CASTINGS  I HALL-WAC4 CO. I M AnJXt CA»I >•)• I  
BEARINGS  
AiiECMAjvy iwirncnwtwrs co^ (HC CmftwIwM u«, IMS  METAL WORKING MACHINERY  
ITIUUMOH STCtL FOUNOMV Con* SlntsoM. ' • t»H  r«RNEnS8UMtJlCTNA COa*  
tNDUSTRIAL BATTING  ELECrnOMlC nCSEAKH CO  
•MDCtraMI UACHCUS. MC  
-)  CHAIN SAWS  
HOWELIIE CO»^, Pan Cn*tW M V ii u  MACHINE TOOLS  ­-c  PLYWOOD  
NATIONAL AUTOWOTrVC n»nf S. itC  MEASURING  
INSTRUMENTS  
CLECIMXMFT IHC  S^MACUC WETEH CO IHC  A LAUSCn MACHINE CO  
-|  RESEARCH  -JPLASTIC PRODUCTS|  
OPTICAL  NUCIEAK METALS INC  FOUNDRY SUPPLIES  KOKOf TE COW, I  
INSTRUMENTS  
SHUMON OTICA L CO Ow»*.NT , l«M 0«(w*t <*ft •nullum. WctM«n« I  FITTINGS AND  EANMCK MANVACIUM^ia CO cn.«mia. om» i* u >W» I nipttiv*, m^Mnal nw«iMr* M  rtOCIUL LEATHER COM*AMES  
PRESSURE VALVES  OLO UNO COLE. IMC  
S*CCTMLA «•^  IMC  u a SMMii« CO  
< INC L M Ai>9Wn. CAM . TM«  MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS  -( ABRASIVE PRODUCTS^  
AND ACCESSORIES  ClEVtLAMO METAL ABRASIVt CO  
dXTlhEHIAL 0*1 ton. CO • •AVXeMM. 1^ . t« ]  l« tNOUSTMCS  
SVMIMI * !»•>••. caMt aM •««•«  
MM*r N. NCIOMNEMHCR ca 


BOAT BUILDING AND SHOES MARINE HARDWARE 
fAICECt. MAMNE InCiMC CO 
SaiOwvB C«r. t«M 
H STORM DOORS 
GOLF CARTS PASSENGER UNER m 
I E-Z-CO CAR COOF A.^iM^ BA 'ttm
I  ".'«  
I  FURNITURE  -]-H WATCH BRACE^ ]  
S»CI0«LCOar  I  

O AMES CO. rMview% •>«••«•] 
novo iNOUSTMAt. coor 
OuiimM MAfRirACTuana CO 
UNDERWATER EXPLORATION -I 
CEMLOMES. LTD 
AGROCHEMICALS 
srt-an MEUOO a son^ INC 
s R MTus nto CO -j 
I POULTRY FARMING \­
CAMOUHE rouiTirr *AMIIS IMC -) 
PHARMACEUTICALS t 
nnO I MVUMACAL CO 
tiLOCN CO. M M UBWM MV. I 
WRITING INSTRUMENTS 
•» A SHCA/mmNCii 
 ZIPPERS 
SILVERWARE 
 DISTRIBUTORS 
t^iMrn SAANi.in 
EiMARo so>us A ca 
 OTHER 
MEXMAMrr uAMUfACTUMMO c a 
TELAUTCSRAM CORF 
co««»o*a(T rAMTsca 
PUEL EMQUMEMMO O 

CMA lMn» JM wi'ifBg lm 
de sica's genteel malaise 
TJie Garden of the Finzi-Continis does not dazzle us as some critics would have. It merely creeps under our skin and settles there, an unobtrusive guest. But such guests it is known, are the most dangerous. As the aristocratic family of Italian Jews whose name gives the title, we are lulled into a comfortable sense of the in­violability of their wealth. The shadow of a coming Fascist Italy does not terrify us; it seems merely gro­tesque and graceless. We come to judge politics in aesthetic terms. As the young Jewess Micol puts off a young man because "he is a Communist and besides too hairy," we also learn to turn up our noses at the crass insensibilities of Fascists. That they threaten basic free­doms is beyond our care and that of the Finzi-Continis; guests, it is known, Eire the most dangerous. As the the world. 
De Sica portrays this upper-class society in terms of a friendship between Micol and her brother on the one hand and both to Giorgio, a childhood friend from town, also a Jew. The relationship of brother to sister hints at incest. Though it threatens to become cliche, such an analysis of the effete nature of wealth is justified. In her thwarted love affair with Giorgio, for instance, we are told by Micol herself that she would prefer the remem­brance of their past friendship to a sensual completion of it. It is as if the world was a vast museum of manne­quins whose purpose in life was to be at times amusing; no more. Micol of course is no more a w£ix doll than the garden is a sanctuary. Near the finish of the picture Micol is found in bed with the Communist. It is a re­markably telling event. The two sprawled out, ex­hausted as if it had been battle. Micol is so emotionally drained that all she can do is return the stares of Giorgio who has discovered them. Genteel defenses no longer are offered. We see at last that the malaise of the city Europe is also sown in the garden of the Finzi-Continis. 
It is somewhat to the detriment of the film that De Sica could not integrate more completely the affair of Micol with the encroaching facts of repression. A feeling of discord is definitely generated between the middle-class family of Giorgio and that of the upper-class Finzi-Continis. The former complain that Micol's family looks forward to having a Jewish ghetto forced on their land so as to lord it over their less fortunate brothers. Indeed they question the Jewishness of this most urbane and civilized clan. In the end it does not matter of course. 
What; is disturbing about the emphasis on the thwarted love affair is that it does not refiect or con­tribute to the impact of the finale. Even the prostitution of Micol is not enough to diminish our respect for the gracious quality of life in the garden. The affair seems merely an arbitrary vehicle against which a separate evil works. The rise of Fascist anti-Semitism is too re­motely maintained in this film. The anonymous phone calls during the Passover dinner, the scene of a news­boy with a Nazi fiag on his bike, the decrees of 11 Duce limiting the rights of Semites—^these events are too ancillary to be effective. The personal tragedy of life has become the focal point, the almost histrionic tragedy which at last befalls, seems almost unnecessary. No doubt we are moved at their political plight; the scene near the end in'which one of the goons sent to round up the Finzi-Continis knocks over a beautiful vase jars us to an especial awareness of the dichotomy between what is real and what is aesthetic. We cringe at the efficiency of orders which at last separates this proud famUy. In every sense we sympathize. 
It is in this success however that De Sica fails. For in the end we forgive the Finzi-Continis too much. We acclaim the veneer while ignoring the soul and sub­stance. We find ourselves too much on the side of Beauty and Art, blinded to the manifest sins of indif­ference and corruption. De Sica presents us a vision apart from the nightmare which is forever; among our dreams. As such the film is touching, even poignant, in the end, no more. ­
-. ------. . —bob elliot 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

sophomore literary festival 
death at any age 
Jerzy Kosinski, America's latest "with it" author, was bom a Pohsh citizen in 1933, and at twenty-four defected to the United States. The sensitive socio­political thoughts expressed by his novels can be explained by his maturing in Europe in the period immediately preceding and during World War n. Kosinski's works, written in English learned from the subtitles of French import films and a hodgepodge of French, English and Polish dictionaries, have given him status as an observerrprophet with an odd literary and hfe style all his own. Offering a seminar on death at Yale, Kosinski, swamped by 2,000 applicants, told his potential students that the format of the course would consist in visiting the places of the dead and dying, then having a small organism killed, and, as a final class project, having a member of the class volunteer to die. The class was not taught for lack of applicants. 
Kosinski's first two novels, The Painted Bird (1965) and Steps (1968), are stylistic expeditions into the realm of the macabre. The Painted Bird dealt with a young, possibly Jewish, boy on the run in Eastern Europe during World War H. Though Kosinski denies the possibiUty, it has been conjectured that the novel is autobiographical. Indeed, the incidents in the story seem too real and awesome to be imagined. 
The first works Kosinski published in English were of social comment — The Future is Ours, Comrade and No Third Path. After the publication and acclaim of The Painted Bird in 1965 the author began working on Steps. 
Winner of the 1969 National Book Award in Fiction, StepSj according to Kosinski, presents a succinct view of humanity gone awry. A collection of vignettes divided into sections, it is written to represent certain basic views of Western thinking. It confronts one with a personal awareness as it is to be decoded and defined. In reading Steps there is the strong task of overcoming the temptation to be nothing more than a sophisticated voyeur witnessing an eerie sequence of events. 
Ascending Mr. Kosinski's staircase a step at a time can bring the reader to only one end. The most incredible step is the final vignette. Heavily laden with symbolism and presenting a powerful image, this scene is the most potent in the novel: 
She undressed, entered the ocean, and started 
swimming. She felt th^ movement of her body and the chill of the ivater. A small rotten I/rown leaf brushed against her lips. TaMng a deep breath, she dove beneath the surface. On the bottom a shadow glided over the seaiveed, lending life and motion to the ocean floor. She looked up through the ivater to find its source and caught sight of the leaf which had toucJied her before. 
Steps is Kosinski's stylistic masterpiece." Its clinically pure,- journalistic prose, the heightened impact of its scenes and the completeness of its austerity in the elimination of transitions reveal it as a landmark in contemporary prose. 
In his latest novel. Being There (1971), Kosinski puts style to work to achieve a devastatingly successful socio-political satire. The novel sneers at the instability and gullibility of economists, politicians, capitalists, communists, housewives, jet-setters, plumbers, Presidents, and that mass which devotedly watches the "boob" tube. Like all good black comedy. Being There sets up a list of ludicrous foibles and presents them to their owners. 
—]. b. brooks & joe runde 

coming distractions 

LECTURES 
Lewis Coser will put Celebrity Intelligence under the microscope February 14 in the Biology Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. 
Black Studies sheds light on the Socio-Political Conditions and Liberation Movements of the Puerto Bicans. With power supplied by the American Minori­ties Lecture Series, Ednardo-Sheda-Bonilla, director of Puerto Rican Studies, Hunter College, New York, flicks the switch in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. on February 16. 
What does Richard Babcock have that you probably do not have? A Projwsal to Bring Grace to a Noble Ideal Ignobled: Metropolitan Planning. The Chicago attorney reveals all, February 16 in the Architecture Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
Is all fair in war? For Rich Wassertrom there are some Laws of War. The rules wiU be laid out in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. on February 17. 
Ralph Nader, chief of Nader's Raiders, rides into Notre Dame on February 17. One lantern in the Academic Commission's oflSce window signals Stepan Center at 9:00 p.m. 
The American Scene: A Cultural Series focuses on Kalamazoo College February 23 at 7:30 p.m. in CsirroU HEJI. Douglas Peterson, Dean of Academic Affairs, explains The Kalamazoo Plan: "a unique inter­relationship of on-campus offerings and off-campus foreign study, career-service, and individual projects." 
FILMS 
Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman and Hitchcock are Notorious together. Join them, in Carroll Hall at 3:30, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. on February 11. 
Underground goes aboveground February 11. Cinema 72's Experimental Festival breaks the surface at 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. with a series of shorts. 
Last grasp strips off the blankets and bares the nuts and bolts of The Sleeping Car Murder. 
Rev up your motor in Carroll Hall at 7:00 and 9:00 
p.m. February 12. 
Cinema 72 exchanges shovels for The Ritual, February 12, 13 at 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
There is more to the movie M than immediately meets the eye. Take a close look February 13 in Carroll HaU at 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. 
Try a little Civilisation on the movie screen. Your free seat is in room 126 of lUSB's Northside Hall. Ceremonies for The Worship of Nature commence at 
4:00 and 7:30 p.m. on February 16. 
Cat Ballon moseys into town February 18. Meet her at lUSB at 9:00 p.m. She will be waiting for you in room 126 of Northside Hall. 
The CAC continues its Cinema 72 series with Black Orpheus on February 19 and 20 at 2:00 and 8:00 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
PAS introduces Brewster McCIoud. Engineering Auditorium, February 23, and 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. is. aU you need to know. 
Take three short looks at the Environment February 24. At 7:30 and 9:00 p.m. CAC presents A Slow Guillotine, Cash Register in the Rockies, and Alone in the Midst of the Land. 
lUSB asks the question: Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? Maybe clues February 25, 9:00 p.m. and room 126 of Northside Hall, will help you solve the mystery. 
CONCERTS 
The Domb Duo performs Brahm's Double Concerto for Violin and Cello February 13. Bow meets string at 4:00 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Richie Havens brings the sun into the ACC at 

7:30 p.m. on February 13. Warm up, too, to the timely Winter Consort. Tickets are $4.50, $3.50 and $2.50. The Burgundy Street Singers stroU into O'Laughlin 
Auditorium on February 15. Indianapolis isn't known for just race car driving. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, for instance, 
is also in high gear. Listen, as the ISO makes 
an elevated pit stop in Bethel College's Goodman 
Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. on February 18. 
EXHIBITIONS Isis Gallery opens its doors on February 12 at 
9:00 p.m. to unveil works by Cynthia Huff and E. M. McDonough. 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery, in O'Shaughnessy Hall, is currently displaying "The Photography of Morley Baer" until February 20 and "The Graphic Work of George Rouault" until February 27. 
Moreau-Hammes Ari Galleries: The Pomona College Exhibition: "Movie Palace Modern." 
"Guild for Religious Architecture" is the theme of the Architecture Gallery exhibitions that will run to February 19. Then, from February 19 to March 13, "The Architecture of William Wilson Wurster" may be viewed. 
The Northern Indiana Artists and the St. Joe VaUey Watercolor Society are staging their Annual Show in the South Bend Art Center now through February 27. 
SPORTS The Notre Dame matmen take to the ACC floor when Findlay comes to town February 11 at 7:30 p.m. 
The Universities of Detroit, Chicago, and Notre Dame cross swords in the AuxiUary Gym of the ACC, February 12 at 1:30 p.m. 
Visiting DePaul and Notre Dame match hoops February 12 at 1:40 p.m. 
St. Bonaventure and Notre Dame hit the water February 12. Splashes shower Rockne Pool at 
2:00 p.m. 
Bowling Green and Notre Dame clash in a regional basketball battle February 14. Tipoff in the ACC is 8:00 p.m. 
Fordham brings a hoopful of memories to the ACC 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
on February 22. Doctor Digger Phelps, who cured 
Fordham's woes, now helps Notre Dame try to forget. 
The operation begins at 8:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame and Northern Illinois make waves in 
the Rockne Pool February 25 at 7:30 p.m. 
Michigan and Notre Dame draw sticks and skates 
February 25 at 7:45 p.m. in the ACC. 
SPECIALS 
An otherwise ocean-crossing trip is reduced to a mere walk to O'Laughlin Auditorium as India — its dances, sitars, and other cultural events — comes to Notre Dame. Tickets, available at the Bookstore and LaFortune, are $2 and fvmds wiU be donated to Refugee Relief Fund. The Indian Association of Notre Dame sponsors India Night on February 12 at 7:00 p.m. 
Black Cultural Arts Day dawns on February 13 at 1 p.m. Enter into the world of Photography, Music, and Poetry Readings for four hours in LaFortune's Ballroom. 
The Ice Capades skate into the ACC for a seven-performance stand: February 16,17 and 18—8:00 p.m. February 19—^2:00 and 8:00 p.m. February 20— 
2:00 and 6:00 p.m. Student discoxmts available. 
Former Notre Dame student Michael Rehak provides the lines and current ND and SMC students provide the talents, as the Drama Department presents Judas Christ February 18, 19, 24, 25, and 26. Past and present rendezvous with the future in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:30 p.m. 
The National Players hereby subpoena the Notre Dame Student Body to appear at The Trial on February 20. The curtain will rise and the gavel will drop in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. 
The Michigan State Performing Arts Company presents Shakespeare's Twelfth Night one night only— February 25—at 8:00 p.m. in the Goodmen Audi­torium of Bethel College. 
Juggler 
Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 mailed off campus and out of town 
Second Issue Soon! 

delivered on campus. Poetry by Make check payable to: John Corny Juggler Box 583 
James Wilson Notre Dame, Ind. 
Cathy Wolfe Name .. 

Prose by Dan O'Donnell 

Address Rick Fitzgerald 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

7 wrong reasmis 
for having a baby: 
1.
 "You're married a year now. When are you going to give us grandchildren ?" 

2.
 "You want to have a kid, Evelyn? All right, we'll have a kid. Maybe that'll patch things up." 


"Why knock myself out 
working when I can have a baby?" 
4.
 "I bet my parents would send us money if we had a baby..." 

5.
 "Heh-heh, hey Frankie, what are you and Margie waiting for ? 

6.
 "We only want two kids. But if we don't have a boy we'll keep trying!" 


These are just seven of the many-wrong reasons for having a baby. There's only one right reason: because you really want one. 
And the right time is when you want one. When the baby can be a welcome addition, not an accidental burden. 
Unfortunately lots of people who think they know how to go about birth planning don't. (Research statistics show that more than half the preg­nancies each year are accidental!) 
That's not having babies for wrong reasons. 
That's just being wrong. 
Hanned Parenthood 
Children by choice. Not chance. 
For further information, write Planned Parenthood, Box 431, Radio City Station, New York 10019. ­
7. "Sure I want babies. What else is a woman for?" 
Photos by Leonard Nones 

Planned Parenthood is a national, non-profit organization dedicated to providing \^^ advertising contributed information and effective means of family planning to all who want and need it. "^OOMO"'» for the public good 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
sports 
a minor sport? 
Hidden away in the dark recesses of the Rockne Memorial is one of the most unknown yet most exciting of the Irish varsities. Laboring imder the direction of Coach Dennis Stark is the '71-'72 Irish swimming team. This year, the Irish tankmen have put together one of the most powerful, most exciting, and most jinxed teams in recent history. 
Saturday, February 12, at 2:00 in theRockne Me­morial, the Irish host St. Bonaventure for what prom­ises to be one of the most exciting meets of the yeeir. 
"We're 4-1 against the Bonnies, with our only loss being last year, but every meet has been close. For the last two years it has come down to Sherk in the last relay," said Coach Stark. "I want our boys to be really high for this one. We've had quite a few setbacks. We started this year with trenaendous depth, as evidenced in the relay meet, but due to academic diflBculties and various injuries, we have absorbed heavy personnel losses. We've never had a year like this." 
"We're really going to try to peak for this meet," added Stark. "We'U have six afternoons plus two^ or three mornings in the water to get us ready for' this one." But that's not all Coach Stark has to add to the importance of the day.."We're having our .first swim­ming alumni reunion in history Saturday." Among the ­returnees will be '64 captain Charles Blanchard,. the most legendary of Irish swimmers and who inspired the "Blanchard award"; '57 captainMike Connelly who first organized the varsity; Fr.-Robert Pelton who is a. cb-, founder of the team; '67 captain Richard Strack who promised his team a reunion in five years; and even an ex-swimmer as far away as Puerto Rico, Guilleimo Ramis. . _ : :' / 
And the alumni shouldn't be disappointed with what they see. Svnmming World, has called this year's St. Bonaventure team "the strongest ever."; But Coach Stark belieyes his teamwiU rise to the occasion; ."This. year's team has amazing dedication. I.wanted the team to return to the campus January 8 to start practice, but I was outvoted. They wanted to return the 4th! It was great for the team. For once they not only worked out together and ate together, but they lived together. It really molded the team. They became much more of a unit when they understood what it was to live together. It especially helped the freshmen. It merged them with the unit extremely well." Coach added, "Don't forget the girls who work with us as oflBcials, they have really helped our program." , ; . ' 
But to really undCTstand the program and its ups' 
-george block 

and downs one has to meet the swimmers, and that is what the SCHOLASTIC tried to do by interviewing Brian Short, team captain and 200 freestyle specialist, Joe O'Connor, who has emerged as the premier swimmer on the Irish roster this year, ^id Ed Strack, who is desig­nated by his teammates as the hardest worker in the pool. ­
_  SCHOLASTIC:  What do you think is the essence of  
swimming?  \  
O'CONNOR:  It's  mental  attitude. It's  10% ability,  

90% attitude. At the beginning of the year T expected to do the one, two, and five hundreds and when I started to do the 1000 for the first time I thought—40 lengths, this is insane! This is hell! My mind wandered. One time I found myself singing "Jesus Christ, Super-Star" to keep pace. But when I started to think about the race I started to,do much better. Now I concentrate the whole way. I try to get out fast for. the first 500, then keep it loose and swinging. Then when I get to the end I just remember that I've gone this hard, this far, not to quit now. . ; , -{ ; 
SCHOLASTIC: IS winning everything? Is defeat a total failure? 
O'CONNOR: It is a failure, but not a total failure. If I get beat, yet do my best time, it is not a total failure. If I get beat, and don't "do my best, then it is a total failure. 
SCHOLASTIC: What would yoii change if you could change one or two things in the Notre Dame swimming program? = 
O'CONNOR: Scholarships! Look at Northwestern. In one year they went from~ fair to outstanding. If Notre Dame had a few—wow!—^they could be a national power in a few years. Just two a year, and in four years we would have one man in each key area. 
SCHOLASTIC: What keeps you on a team when not on scholarship? 
O'CONNOR: It takes desire instead of demand. Swim­ming takes more desire than most sports, except pos­sibly track. It is a year round sport. In the last year I've taken a total of eight weeks off. I've trained hard for nine months and moderately for one. Swimming is dif­ferent from other sports in other ways, too. There is little room for upsets. People don't VEiry much in their times when they're at their peak. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
SCHOLASTIC: What about this Saturday? 
O'CONNOR: I just want to beat the Bonnies. I want 

to do more than just beat them. Last year we beat them 
in the pool, but lost on a technicahty. A doubtful one at 
that. Our whole season is one meet. 
SCHOLASTIC: Does a crowd make a difference at a 

meet? 
O'CONNOR: Yes. A full house is a big psychological boost. We haven't had anyone cheer for us since our December 3 meet. When we go to other schools we have packed houses, but here we swim, in coflBns. Of course, it doesn't help having us scheduled the same time as basketball. We don't get coverage by the school paper, or by sports publicity, so no one really knows what we're doing. The station WSND gives us the best cover­age. Yeah, a crowd is a big difference. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you tell people who say swim­ming is boring or stupid? 
O'CONNOR: Only if you don't know anything about it. What could be more exciting than to see someone swim stroke for stroke for 1000. Put yourself inside the swim­mer. The relays are always exciting. So are the sprints. The finish in any race, either in track or swimming is always exciting. Look at how many meets have come down to the last r^ay. Imagine yourself as the last man in the last relay. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is it like to swim at Notre Dame? 

O'CONNOR: There is reaUy not much Notre Dame tradition in swimming, but there is a close team feeling. The unit sense is really big. People puU for each other. No one wants to let their friends down. 
SCHOLASTIC: Does it bother you not getting,enough press notice? 
O'CONNOR: You'd sort of like to know you're there, but the real thing is the self and the team. Publicity is nice, but-beating the Bonnies would be great. 
SCHOLASTIC: Were you recruited by Notre Dame? 

STRACK: NO, I came here because of its scholastic reputation. I didn't ever think I'd swim here. The coach at Air Force Academy told me that a new 50 meter pool was part of the convo, and that lots of scholarships were given.-: So when they had the frosh meet I swam, and saw that Ed Graham, took everything. So I've been swimming ever since. ROTC helps me pay for school. 
SCHOLASTIC: What made you come here? 

STRACK: Temporary insanity. No, I'd just been in Colorado all my life and wanted a good school away from there. 
SCHOLASTIC: What niotivates you to swim? Is it a chance for nationals or All-American. --. f _ , STRACK: No.-1 really don't have much of a chance for those. When I was a little kid I had a lot of fun and 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
that sort of set my interest for Ufe. I like to go to dif­ferent places for meets. 
SCHOLASTIC: If you didn't compete woidd you stay on the team? STRACK: NO. I'd probably swim on my own. I have to compete a little. 
SCHOLASTIC: Would you go out for the team if it were like Indiana? 
STRACK: NO. There's no reason to be totally out­classed. But I'd rather watch a team that's very good than be on a fair one. 
SCHOLASTIC: What does Notre Dame need to be first class? 
STRACK: The team needs money. Money comparable to other teams on campus. Like football. With five scholarships a year, we would be unreal. With our aca­demic and athletic reputation, in a few years we would support ourselves. 
SCHOLASTIC: You were ineligible for one yeair. What do you think of the grade rub? 
STRACK: 1.6 is a safeguard. It is a good thing. It is definitely not fair because some schools are harder than others. 2.0 is not dumb, but there's a big line between a 1.6 and 2.0.1 hate to see this school go higher than the NCAA, because the academic and emotional pressures are hard enough on freshmen without having the dif­ference of 1.6 and 117 deciding on his most productive year of competition, and time when he needs to be part of the group. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the dividing line between sports and education? 
STRACK: There is no dividing line between sports and education. There is a line—an obvious one—between academics. Swimming is not academic, but it is educa­tion. It is experience, but not in the common sense of experience. There are many realities of experience in a very concentrated form. It is a value to be truly edu­cated, but it is not academic. 
SCHOLASTIC: HOW do you see grades and sports interacting? STRACK: I see little difference to myself between a 
2.25 and 2.75. So I sacrifice that to learn a lot elsewhere. At least four hours a day. Often more. AU weekends. You're usually tired. It has a lot of effect on your grades. Why do I sacrifice? It's not what grade I get. Its' how educated I become. 
SCHOLASTIC: Why do you do it? STRACK: A passion'for - improvement. Always do better. . -' 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the team like? , -, STRACK: The team? There is a special closeness. You know people in a special way. All my best friends are on the team. It was really great living together over Christmas break. For a while you only knew people for what they did in the water, or possibly what they would say before practice or at dinner, but we reaUy lived together, I mean totally. You got to know the other guy a lot better. It's one of the best teams I've seen. It's a fairly close group, with the unity arising from divergence. Everyone is an individual, but he sub­mits himself to the group. The first and the last man are equal. The last man helps in many ways. He pushes everyone above him, plus he has the hardest job of all. To come off the bench when he is needed desperately and then to perform better than he ever has before. That has to be the toughest job in all of sport. 
SCHOLASTIC: What's the biggest thrill you get at a meet besides winning? STRACK: When Frank (Fahey) and I are able to go 1-2 in an event. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the support like for swimming here? 
STRACK: Here the sports are football, basketball, and hockey. Students miss a lot by not seeing whatever they can. It may take them a while to understand swimming, or wrestling, or track, or tennis, but it would be worth it. Li my high school we had super support. You had to get there early to get a seat. 
SCHOLASTIC: What would help? ­

STRACK: The dsdly paper would have to create in­terest from one side of the circle, and the Athletic De­partment would have to give us more money or the other. Of course a lot of little things would help, too. Like having enough warm-ups for everybody. Having a varsity record board, a scoreboard, and a diving record board. 
SCHOLASTIC: Where would the money come from? 

STRACK: I don't know. I don't understand how the school is set up financially. I do know if thirty kids get football scholarships each year, there should be 120 kids with scholarships. That would mean 90 upperclassmen. I never see 90 guys dressed for a game. 
SCHOLASTIC: What's it like being captain of the Irish swimming team? 
SHORT: Not much different from being on the team. It's probably different than in other sports, though. In other sports you're at your best in your senior year, but in swimming you peak at 16 or 17, so your best years will be as a freshman or sophomore. As senior captain I'm over it. Leadership is one factor, too. I can always help the younger guys with technical things. There's no glory like football. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you mean? 

SHORT: Swimming is most definitely a minor sport. Only lip service is paid as far as being equal. Heck, the school paper even calls us a minor sport. We don't get any scholarships. 
SCHOLASTIC: Why is the team so young? 

SHORT: It's hard swimming senior year. You're not close to sophomore times. Don SchoUander only swam three years. You're too far away from your peak. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is your peak? 

SHORT: A peak is when you go your best times, also when its easiest to go your, best times. In swimming you're never in shape, you're always getting there. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the key to success in swim­ming? 
SHORT: A swimmer has to have a big ego. The sport is very individual. I've played every gamut of sports competitively, and swimming has to be the hardest. You have to hurt yourself continually, and you have to want to. 
SCHOLASTIC: How is the team? SHORT: The best ever here. We got hurt badly by academics and injuries. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you think about academic reg­ulations? 
SHORT: The NCAA says 1.6, here it's 1.7, and some Ivy League schools like Princeton have none at all. All schools should follow NCAA, and the rules should be clear. We have people inehgible on our team that would be eligible by the NCAA. One fellow is off just because the rules are so ambiguous no one knew for sure. Every year the school changes their rules, too. Athletic rules should be uniform nationwide. If Princeton doesn't have any rules because they are a harder school, are we that much inferior academically? If Southern Cal has 1.6, why should we have 1.7? 
SCHOLASTIC: How else is swimming a minor sport? 

SHORT: Scholarships is one of the main things—that is the most painful to get into. Look at the basketball court this year. Totally redone. Even new shoes. We don't even have warm-ups for everyone. No scoreboard. We have to be the only pool we've ever had a meet at that doesn't have a varsity record board. It would be 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

good for the team, and the fans. Two scholarships a year and we'd be a national team in four years. Look, Northern Illinois is second only to California. Ohio is third, Indiana is coming fast. We're in a recruiting hot­bed. We have a great name, but without scholarships, who can afford $4000.00 if they have a ride somewhere else? 
SCHOLASTIC: How is this year's team? 

SHORT: We have the most freestyle depth I've ever seen, both distemce and sprint. We have five or six that can break fifty seconds for the hundred. That's moving! We had six divers and now we're down to one, Larry LaFratta. And he's amazing. He just started diving last year. Coach Stark did an amazing job teaching him. He's already got a couple of firsts. If he could do some diving, gymnastics, and general conditioning over the off-season, he'd really shine. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you think is the purpose of the academic regulation? 
SHORT: Theoretically, to keep colleges from ex­ploiting kids. To keep kids from having their educations sacrificed for sport. But it should be dealt with indi­vidually. And if that's not possible, at least make it uniform. Especially since it mainly hurts freshman year, which is the weakest academically and emotionally, and most productive athletically. If the kid has no scholar­ship ties, he'U get out of shape, lose interest, and he's gone. His grades would probably improve more if he stayed on the team, because there is team pressure, too. He could also get help from guys on the team. There is more interest and discipline when a guy is on the team. As long as he's in school he should be allowed to com­pete. Guys are allowed to be hall presidents, work for WSND, build Mardi Gras booths, and go to Frankie's every night if their grades are bad, why not sports? The freshman year counselors should work up and keep tabs on the boy and help him instead of a continual run around if he needs help. Besides, after practice your extra energy is gone and you don't feel like goofing off. Most people follow training rules pretty well; that helps grades. People have to budget time on a team. You're more aware of time. 
SCHOLASTIC: Why do you swim? 

SHORT: I enjoy my masochistic ways. Sometimes it's hard to say. Sophomore year I enjoyed practices and meets. Last year I enjoyed meets. This year I like the meets because they're exciting. 
SCHOLASTIC: What would you tell someone who said 

swimming was stupid? 
SHORT: Things like that apply to every sport. It's not so much what's being done in coUegiate sports as who's doing it. Meets, however, have been tremendously exciting, lots of dose races, meets coming down to the last relay. If people knew about meets, they'd come. That's where sports publicity comes in. They give us no help. We're almost totally neglected by the Observer. 1 think we had two stories for six meets. 
SCHOLASTIC: Would you keep swimming if you didn't start? 
SHORT: I'm not too far from that now. There are two frosh ahead of me, so I'm third man. That's one reason why people quit. There are no scholarships to keep you out, so you have to decide continually to keep going. Some days at 6:30 that's hard. The ego demands excellence. I'm half crazy, so that's what keeps me going. I like to do well in practice. As long as I have something to contribute I'll stay. I have to look hard now, but meets aren't the only places to .contribute. K I wasn't I'd quit. 
SCHOLASTIC: Do you ever swim Indiana? 

SHORT: NO. That question bothers me more than any other. I'd just ask in return, how weU could Ara Parseghian do at lUSB with no scholarships and no assistants and $3000 costs for each student? We need scholarships. If we had them, we could be the next lU. We could go nowhere to recruit. People write con­stantly. We could pick and choose among national class swimmers. We need more pool time. A locker room wouldn't hurt. One more step from where we are now to a national power. 
SCHOLASTIC: Would you encourage people to go and see swim meets? 
SHORT: People miss'a lot by not seeing swimming. It's got to be the best FREE show in town. It naight be the only one. 
SCHOLASTIC: How is Coach Stark? 

SHORT: He's amazing! The University takes him for granted. He teaches a full load. There's no publicity, so he's got to do it himself. He gets little financial help. He has to figure trips himself. He gets no help recruit­ing. Also, we have to be the only sport to have hotdog stands, sell programs, peanuts, have Mardi Gras booths and still come out short. The team came back two weeks early, paid to live at Holy Cross Junior College, and was going to have to pay to drive to campus in 25 below zero weather. 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
the last word 

Liberation seems to conjure up fanciful and remote images in the minds of many. It has to do with social : or political movements which concern oppressed peoples. Or does,it have to do with the self-serving interests of certain vocal groups? It is a socially acceptable'topic 
-with which one can take issue by the addition of an adjective. Third World. Women's. Gay. But it doesn't say anything to me unless I belong to one or more of those adjectival groupings. -; Liberation'cahhot, in any real sense, be preceded by ah adjective. In attempting to label the demand of many women that society recognize their freedom, the focus becomes directed towards the categorical limitation "women,",when in fact the issue is one of freedom. 
' , .. / —mary ellen stoltz 
To cast off the idiot Questioner who is always question­
ing; ; . :;; But never capable of answering; who sits with a sly grin Silent plotting when to question, like a thief in a cave; Who pubhshes doubt & calls it knowledge; whose science 
is Despair, Whose pretence to knowledge is Envy, whose whole' Science ; 7 To destroy the wisdorii of ages to gratify ravenous Envy: "That rages round him like a Wolf day & night without rest " , . . '_ He smiles with condescension; he talks of Benevolence & Virtue And those who act with Benevolence & Virtue, they murder time on time Those are the destroyers of Jerusalem, these are the 
murderers vi ;V • of Jesus, who deny the faith & mock at Eternal Life! - ^; Who pretend to Poetry that they may destroy the Lnag-e . ination , : ,r: ;^ : . —from .Blake MiKonl^ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
When you know it's for keeps 
You can choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee gives written proof of a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 
REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 
Rings from $100 to $10,000 Trade Mark Reg. A. H. Pond Co 

HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING j 
I 'L Send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" pi us l" full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift-offer all for only 25(!. g-j 
72 
- Name­
-Address-
Cit/-' '; ' iCo£ 

- State: -Jip.^;:^ 
;. j ;- {, K EEPSA K E,,D IA M O N D^iRI N GS;,, B OX ;.9Q;5;SY RACU SE*: N .Y.; l'32b I;-;/ • 
HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL gE DOING TOMORROW? 
Finding a job that gives you satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com­plex as ours. 
ButthePaul­ist finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values that are lasting. 
As a Paulist he may counsel a run­away youth, listen to the problems of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or conduct' a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations, he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
Whatever tool he chooses, the Paulist gets his "message" through. 
Can you think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
For more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P.,Vocation Director, Room No. 200 
pNOuHsffblherSo 
415 West 59th street New York, N.Y. 10019 





