

0 F F I C I A·'t 
1924 Football Review 
University of Notre Dame 
Edited hv 
HARRY McGUIRE · ]ACT.\ SCALLAN 
._.;~... 
CONTRIBUTORS  
Thomas .Coman  Oeorqe Bischoff  Eustace Cullinan  
Lester Heqele William Reid  Francis Miller David Hickelj ·  .Lester Gradv Franklin Conwalj  
Charles Donahue  Prof. Charles Phillips  Frank Masterson  
Wilbur lylcEirolj  James Armstrong  Gerald Holland  

The editors wish to acknowledge the assistance given bv Mr. Rockne,-Mr. Harrv Elmore and Mr. AI. Rvan in the compilation ofthis Review 


r 1­
I 
i 
II .. 
t 
I 
i• 
I I 

I 
I 
I· 
l 
I 



CAPTAIN WALSH and COACH ROCKNE 

THIS 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
is Dedicated to~­

Out of the West Came Roclc and his men; 
Lightning o7~ lightning flashed, 
Thunder on mountains crashed, 
Into the East they smashed-Roclc and his men. 
On to the field 
Come Roclc and his men Fighting a foreign foe, Hitting them high and low, Down to the goal they go­
.Roclm.t/s men. 
There on the field 
Stand· Roclc ·and his men; Sound of the whistle dies, Up to the farthest slcies · Boom now the frenzied cries, 
·uRoclc and your men!" 
North, east, south and ·w~st 
So Roclc and his men­Riding the •wings of speed, Galloping, steed on s.teed, Slcirting the ends· lilce flame, Cyclones whose very fame Devastates •with a name­
uRoclc and his m.(m., 
Baclc to the West 
Come Roclc and his men; Baclc to their comrades true, Under the Gold and Blue­Fighting men turned from war, Hear they the awful roar Smiting the heaven·s for 
Roclc and his m.en. 
H. A. McGuire 
......-., 

__ , 

' -­
T
HE CHRONICLE of the 1924 seasoh, as offered to you in the paqes to follow, has,. its {~zipiration in. the achievements and traditions that cluiracterize· the University of Notre Dam-e and its student .body. 
JVhat success it has beeit the privilege of the team to cnjo,lf duri;zg the 1924 football season can be attributed to a wholesome inter~st_ in the act_ivities of the ·student bod,1f b.1J those men who represent N_otr_e Dame on the gridiron. Their_ efforts hav-e been expeizded-, ·at all times,· in a spirit' of lo.1falty-to Jlotre Dame. JVorldng as a unit for the success of the team, forgetting th~ individ­ual, personal interest, the men on the squad have ac­complished their purpose. It has, been team-worlc, sub­11iission to discipline, .the employment ()f mental faculties to mee~ conditim!s·as they arose, that figured prominent­l.1f in their victories. 
To ever.1J man on the squad, to thos-e who have ·worlced in gm1zes, scrimmages, practices, is full. credit forthcom­ing. 
It is a 11leasure to be the coach of sitch _a group f!f. . gentlemen, students and athletes.. · 
K. K! .ROCKNE. 



I" 
I l 
j 
j 
I 
I 


; . .;:1,;~+ KNUTE K. ROCKNE of NOTRE DAME  


····. __.. 
---~-----­

..;.-\ 

:, ' -~ 
... 
·~ -­
1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW
Page 6 
-i . 
! I 
: . .. . 



The 19.24 Victories 
October 4 _________________.___Notre Daine___________.40; Ltnnbard ----------------0 Octber 11 -~------------------Notre Danle---------"--34; Wabash ~-----------------0 Octobei· 18 __________________Notre Daine____________13; Army ----------------------7 Octobei· ·25 __________________Notre Dmne____________12; Princeton --------------0 N ove1nber 1· ___________._____Notre Daine.-----~-----34; Georgia Tech________ 3 Nove1nber 8 __·______________Notre Dame____________38; \~Tisconsin --------------3 N ove1nber 15 :-------------Notre Da1ne____________3:4; Nebraska ----------------6 N ove1nber. 22 --~------: ____Notre .D.anle____________13 ~ N ortlnvestern --------6 November· 29 .. -~-'-----------N o~re Dan1e-----~----·__40; Carnegie Tech ______19 


Total nunlber of p_oints .~cored: ~otre Dame, 258; Opponents, 44. 
I. 



The 1929 Schedule 
~ 
Septe1nber 27-.Baylor ·university at -~ otre Da1ne October 3-Loinbard at' Notre Dame October 10-,Beloit ·at Notre D·ame October i7~:v\Test Point :at Yankee Stadilun, Ne'v York October 24-l\iinnesot.a ·at.l\iinne.n.polis October 31-Georgia Tech at. Atlanta November 7-Carnegie Tech at N otl~e Dame November 14-Penn State at State College, Pa. November 21-Nortlnvestern at Notre Dame · November 28-Nebraska at Lincoln 

:.~:....· ... ~ -· --··----------~---~-_,. ___ .. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
I 
i I 4 I 
I 

The Officers of the 1924 Varsity 
KNUTE K. RoCKNE ------------------·········· I-Iead Coach ToM LIEn ········~·-··---------------------: ••• Assistmit Coach HARTLEY ANDERSON -------------------"Assistant Coach GEoRGE KEoGAN --------------------------Freshman Coach GEORGE VERGARA ·-------~Assistant Freshman Coach 
AtiAl\1 \VALSH --------------··-----·---·---------------·-· Captain 


LEo SuTLIFFE ·--------~-------·-----·----Student ~tanager 
· The Personnel .. 
I 

\VALSH 
\VEIDEL CERNEY RoAcH HANOUSEK
I 

CRoWLEY BACH · CoNNEL O'BoYLE GLUECI\:ERT 
~ :MILLER E. :MILLER CROWE HEARNDON HARRINGTON STUHLDREHER CoLLINS EATON REESE . 1\:lcl\fANl\ION LAYDEN HuNSINGER . HARMON HousER BoLAND 
KIZER LIVERGOOD . ScHERER EDWARDS :MAXWELL 
G. :MILLER ~Icl\luLLE~T 
The Reserves 

KEEFE CoHEN ANDERDERGER 'SULLIVAN GEBHARDT RIGALI REIDY CANNY DAHMAN ~IcCAnE 
c. REILLY BIELLI ·.1\fuLiiN: FRISKE GISH TRUCKNER \VHALEN 1\fcNALLY GoRMAN DIENHART \VHILTE EGGERT STACK \VYNNE ARNDT 
WALLACE E. CRowE CouGHLIN BROWN 1\fuRRIN 1\fAYER PRELLI GENIESSE 




192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Assistant Coaches. 
In the building of the N<?tre Dame Rockne was fortunate to hav~ had as 
freshman coach; and Hartley Anderson varsity line coach. 
tackle in the years 1920-21-22. playing at right tackle, was headed for a 
sustained in the Purdue game .cut short 
I 
his gridiron career. 

~ 
·Lieb returned in .track however and balanced his loss of football .honors by gaining fame as a discus thrower, win­ning the state title, representing · the United States ·on the discus team in the 
1924 Olympics and :finally breaking the 

world's i·ecord in the discus throw last September. Lieb is a member of the Illinois Athletic club. To Lieb goes much of the credit for the caliber of the No-. 
.. tre Dame line this year, which weilded a terrifying power
1 

j 
over all opponents and paved the way for an untied and undefeated season. 
Assisting Tom Lieb in preparing the linemen for the 
great campaign was :flartley "Hunk" Anderson, another former Notre Dame player who served at the left guard berth during the years 1919-20-:-21. He holds the unique record of recovering two fumbles. in quick succession against P~rdue ~nd running for touchdowns each time. Anderson and Lieb were former teammates of George Gipp, Notre Dame's all-time all-American. 
J 
George Keogan came· to Notre Dame 
j 
in 1922 and assisted Rockne in football, 
serving as ~lead coach of basketball and 

baseball. Coach Keogan has worked with Rockne for two years in the task I of building up winning. football teams~ The freshman squad under the tutelage of Keogan has stood up against the· varsity and fought with 'the
I 
regulars to put them in condition for the season's grind. 
! 

I George Vergara assisted Keogan this year in drilling the yearling squad for scrimmage against the varsity, the :first year men using the opposition's formations. Vergara played one year with Fordham before coming to No­
tre Dame and serv.ed two years with the Fighting Irish at end and ·guard.GEO.VERGARA 






Adatn Walsh 
Captain 
No matter how brilliant are painted the 
many episodes that appeared in the 1924 season of Notre Dame football, episodes of sensational victories and sterling indi­vidual performances, the historians who fifty years hence recount the deeds of the Fighting Irish will be drawn by a special force to the chronicle of the career of Adam vValsh, center and captain of the national champions. 
The particular special force that em­bellishes the. work of Notre Dame's fight­ing captain who will long be remembered in the annals of the sport. with Gipp, Thorpe, Coy, Heston and Grange, is one common to human nature since the begin­ning of time. :Men are quick to admire a leader of ultra-courageous qualities, and in Adam Walsh the poets will find a cap­tain in all the fullness of the qualities that are expected from a leader. 
Notre Dame tradition years hence will sparkle with the narrative of the football player who fought ~he mighty Army host on Oct. 18, 1924 at the Polo Grounds in New ·york, with two broken hands; who was knocked out several times in the 
course of the game and had to be lifted to his position. For weeks after the Notre Dame eleven had made its victorious sweep through the east, the sport circles along the east coast hitherto given entirely to Yale, Harvard and Princeton, were hubs of excited comment and discussion about the Notre Dame captain. Written tribute crowded the pages of the daily press and an­other~ football demi-god was proclaimed, and rightly so. 
It was a thing to marvel at, the feeling of security that settled over the foot~all fans at a Notre Dame game when Adam Walsh ran out on the field to take his place at center. Without the slightest hesitation he was accepted as the last word in capability and Captain Walsh never gav~ the sporting world reason to believe otherwise. 
Notre Dame's captain will be looked upon ti] the end of time as one of the most ideal cap­tains that ever led a Notre Dame football team. His unlimited courage and fearlessness com­bined with an unquestionable ability to play the game was the great factor that made Rockne's. eleven the most united football team of the year. Of course it will never be forgotten that Walsh served with men whose devotion to Notrc Dame was established beyond reproach and whose fidelity to the teachings of .Rockne was the reason why Notre Dame. is national cham­pion today. The player's devot.ion to their school was manifested in their support of their captain and no one lived who could question the fact why they supported their captain. 



1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 11 
Great leaders of armies whose deeds are recorded in history have always been men who never asked their men to do what they themselves would not attempt to do. Those leaders were men who took no pains to spare their lives at the expense of their comrades. Adam '\Valsh re­sponded to everything the spirits of great leaders asked of him. He was in every play on defense and on offense and exercised inimitable judgment in ·directing his team in the path of victory. 

Walsh came to Notre Dame from Hollywood high school in 1921, where he excelled in four major sports. In stature he is typical of the strong, ,well proportioned men who live along our 1vestern ·coast. His year on the freshman team at Notre -Dame was short lived, an injury keeping him out of competition for the better part of the year. 
For. definite information and minute details of Adam "\Valsh's brief stay with the yearling eleven, Hartley "Hunk" Anderson, Ojay Larson and Harry 1\Iehre could give a good account. Against these men, the green fresl1man team were forced to contend and night after night they were subject to mu<:h punishment, sacrificing themselves for the sake of Rockne and· the team that was to carry the colors through a glorious· year, marred only by the Iowa defeat. 
In 1922 "\Valsh made his first appearance on the varsity and alternated with Bill Voss and Bob Reagan in holding down the center of the line through a hard· season, tarnished again 1vith defeat, this time by Nebraska... In 1923, "\Valsh carried most of the burden, ably assisted by Reagan who was playing his last year. 
Two years of playing had served to bring "\Valsh to the fore-front in. American college foot­ball. In the Army game of 1923, "\Valsh decisively outplayed and ou.tfought the mighty Gar­~isch who was then play!ng his se~enth ·year of varsity football. . · 
In 1924, Walsh at center for Notre Dame met Garbisch, the center and captain of the Army, and the minute by minute. account of that memorable struggle beggars all description: 
Every voi~e in the land recounted the story of the heroic captain who led his team· to victory against the greatest eleven of the east, and fought off the crashing, plunging backs in the lVest Point backfield with a bone broken in each hand. 
. Adam '\Valsh played his last game in the middle 'vest against Carnegie Tech, and out of the bitter strife of a cold wintry afternoon arose another picture of the fighting captain, painfully injurcd, but always fighting doggedly to hold on and stem the rush of the _victory hunting hordes in front of him. 
A half a century hence, the story of Adam 'Valsh and the great Notre Dame team of 1924 \\,:ill be pretty. much of a legend, one of the outstanding adornments of Notre Dame's tradi­tions. The wild applause of the stands :will be but an echo rolling down through the valley of time. "\Valsh and the players who are today the idols of the nation will then have run the gauntlet of the time and from a high mountain, they will look down upon the glorious past and all the colorful triumphs garnered by the spirit of youth in eager quest of victory and the spoils of conquest. \ 
In the shadows of the sunset of life when the past has sunk into oblivion, Adam 'Valsh will have his treasured memories and the men who fought with ~lim and the men who yelled and prayed for. him will have memories-mem­
ories of a fearless captain. T. CoMAN, '25 

I 
I 
I 
Page 1.2 19.24 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


THE TEAM 
Adam Walsh Captain 
Adam \Valsh of Hollywood, California, closes a football career without a parallel in the history of the sport, at the Tournament of Roses on New Year's Day, a few miles from the plac~ where the blonde giant learned the game in high 
school. Volumes of praise could be written about Adam Walsh. Confined to this brevity, the least that can be said about him is that he was a brave and worthy leader. He played the game as few men have ever played it before him. · He was magnifi­cently unselfish and gave his best for Notre Dame. 
Sheer grit and determination upheld by the courage of a fighting heart has won for Adam· Walsh a place for all time in f# the hearts of the football world. · 
I I
James Crowley Left Half..Back 
James "Sleepy" Crowley of Green Bay, Wisconsin, has 
I been an enigma to the sporting world for three years ·during which time he has added considerably to the history of the sport with performances beyond description and imitation. 
He appears on the football field as the strange combina­tion of two opposites: slow, carele~s indifference, and the speed I of a deer. His unique poise has been one of the inexplicable chapters in the game, for, from dead idle stance; Crowley is transformed· in an instant into a racing demon, the _terror of 
I

teams and one of· the hardest players to tackle. He is a mem­ber of the "Four Horsemen" and one of the most versatile half­1 backs in the country. His running, passing and kicking have 
I
won for him unlimited honors, but they seem to make not the slightest difference to the youth with the droll honor, who 
I
luggs the ball and never fails. Jimmie has not failed to make a backfield position on every 
\
All-American picked this year. 
I 
Elmer Layden !full-Back 
J
Elmer Layden of Davenport, Iowa, made his debut in Not:re Dame football heralded by a great prep school reputation. Un­like many other youthful stars whose entry into college foot­
I
ball marks the end of their trail of gridiron accomplishments, Layden tacked his hopes and ambitions to higher rewards and the close of his. brilliant football career finds him one of the -~ most accomplished players of the age. He is almost a universal j·choice for All-American honors. 
I 
A member of the nationally known "Four Horsemen," the bullet fullback who shoots his body through space for long 
I
gains, has been one of the most consistent performers on the I Notre Dame team for the past three years. His general all­around ability as punter, drop-kicker, passer, ball-carrier par excellence, has made him of incomparable value to the team. 
I
His work in the interference has no equal and on defense he backs up the line to the final degree of perfection. He has I fought for Notre Dame in many memorable battles during his three years of competition in which time he has been a marked I man like so many of his teammates. Stanford will see him in his last game and Layden will be ready to acquit himself to the best of his ability for the team and for Notre Dame. . I 
I 
I 
I I I 
. ' . ~' . 




1924 FOOtJ"BALL REVIEW Page 18 


fiarry St4hldreher 
Quarter-Back 

Beloved fandom and the impresarios of the sport page have christened Harry Stuhldreher, of Massilon, Ohio, with a multi­tude of names, descripted of his prowess as a football quarter­back, and the power behind the Notre Dame attack. 
The "field general" of Rockne's eleven, the "pilot of the four horsemen," the "most br~lliant quarterback that ever trod the white lined field" are but a thimble full· of Stuhldreher's titles. All the superlatives in the language have been ex­hausted in a vain attempt to describe the Notre Dame pilot.The "Napoleon of the gridiron" whose playing has been one of the paramount sensations of the season, prepared at Kiski and since his first game in college football, has been the mov­ing factor behind the Notre Dan:te attack. 
Stuhldreher who has been picked on every All-American team thus far selected, has keen intelligence and a quick pre­ception which enables him to diagnose plays and direct the de­fense. On the offense, he stu_dies his opponents and directs the play where it will do the most good. He has supreme confi­dence in his teammates and is known to take long chances when a break migpt mean disaster. Coach Stagg, of Chicago, not given much to comment, merely shook his head and said, "My,what a quarterback." 
Don Miller 



Right Half,Back 
Don Miller of Defiance, Ohio, the last of the Miller "Mo­hicans," carved his name in football's hall of fame close beside that of Layden, Stuhldreher and Crowley, as one of the bril­liant quartet of "Horsemen." 
A youth who did not look to be the football flash the country knows so well today, came to Notre Dame in 1921. He served his apprenticeship with Castner, Bergman and Maher and in 1923 became undisputedly identified with the so-called "Four Horsemen." Saturday after Saturday, Don Miller fol­
. lowed in the dazzling pace set by his famous brothers ·and touchdowns became a matter of custom. This year, he added to his laurels as one of the best forward pass receivers in the country and continue<J. his mad pace, slashing off the tackles and careening around the ends at a dizzy pace, following per­fect interference. 
The Georgia Tech eleven of 1923 have the pleasure of look­ing back to the day, when Miller treated the southerners to a sparkling track meet. 
Don has received either a position, or honorable mention on· every All-Western and All-American teams picked this fall. 


Edgar Miller 
Right Tackle 
His physical proportions and innate fighting qualities made "Rip" Miller of Canton, Ohio, one of the best tackles Notre Dame has ever had. His massive form, well carried and em­ploye.d to the best advantage by a mind tha~ ~ne:v the game, has prevailed before some of the finest opposition m the coun­try, making it difficult for a gain through the Notre Dame line. 
"Rip" served two years as understudy to Cotton and Oberst, but when the last season rolled around and Rockne be­gan to build up his line for the hardest of campaigns, Miller stepped into the right tackle berth and as a regular, performed his work with great credit. His speed and aggressiveness made him a dangerous man at all times, and the opponent's backfield considered it a toss-up as to which side of the line to try, Bach or Miller; a back could not get by either of them. 

• • ? -~ • • i :· ~ -~ ~. ' • , ~ ---• -" • 
----__:__ ~ _: ... · -·.-... ­
Page 14 1924 FQO·TBALL REVIEW 
John Weibel Right Guard 
John Weibel, of Erie, Pa., was introduced to Rockne in the spring practice of 1922, after playing with Brownson hall dur­ing his freshman year. Hi_s qualities as a guard were not long in presenting themselves to the Notre Dame coach, and the close of three years of college football finds "\Veibel today, re:­garded as one of the greatest linemen ever developed at Notre Dame. 
His work on the offense· was a mighty factor in paving the way for the fleet Irish bacj{s. Weibel, one of the lightest guards in major college football, weighing 165 pounds, served as understudy to Capt. Harvey Brown for two years and in the last year of his competition, cinched a regular guard berth without dispute. He formed with Noble Kizer and Adam "\Valsh one of the most powerful center trios that has ever worn a Notre Dame uniform.· His <;lefensive playing bespeaks a stout heart and his courage never faltered in the face of line plunges by mighty backs. 
Joe Bach 
Left-Tackle 
Joe Bach, of Chisholm, Minn., after serving two years with exceptional credit in the Notre Dame line, will wear the mole­skins for the _last time against Leland Stanford. His passing will. leave a huge gap on the left side of the line that will be hard to fill. 
Bach ascended the ladder of fame by leaps and bounds after the Army game of 1923, when he appem;eg at the tackle berth to take the place of Gus Stange who haQ. been injured. Critics called him the tackle find of the year, and his massive strength rose to immeasurable proportions in front of the Army line, paving the way for another triumph. 
His powers of courage are the equal of any which have ever been displayed in football, and when he was knocked out in the Nebraska game, the fans .realized that the. going was pretty tough in the line. He was a hard and sure tackler and it was not an uncommon sight to .see Bach throw the offensive ball carrier for a loss. Bach played one year at Carlton college be­fore coming to Notre Dame. . 
Charles Collins Left End 
"Chuck" Collins came to Notre Dame from St. Ignatius of Chicago. During his three years of major college football, Collins never once has failed in his duty on the left flank, and deserves to be remembered with the great ends in football 
history. 
· He performs his work silently. He has mastered the fun­damentals of his position and directs his every movement for the benefit of the team. He has faced good competition for the flank berth, but always he has been found depen·dable, ever aggressive-and a man with a true fighting heart. He is as good on the offense as he is on the 9.efense, receiving passes and forming interference for the ball carriers. With exceptional speed he goes down under punts and seldom fails to get his man. This is his third year as a monogram man. 



~" . ·-·--~--=-·-.~ --.:.. .. ".­


1924 F007'BALL REVIEW Page 15 
Noble Kizer Ri~ht Guard 
Noble Kizer came to Notre Dame heralded as a great bas­ketball man, but no one ever heard of Kizer the football guard till the season of 1922 and during the two seasons that followed. · 
His height, his weight and natural aggressiveness combined with his keen mental powers were not long in reserve for bas­ketball, once Rockne had ·discovered him. He fitted into the Notre Dame mentor's picture of the ideal guard, and his 165 pounds were pronounced as ideal for the man who would play in the guard berth. Maurie Smith and Harvey Brown were his predecessors of similiar type and the pace set by these men was quickly taken up by Kizer. He teamed admirably with ·weibel and these men have been two of the greatest factors instru­mental in Notre Dame's gridiron success. Like his teammates in the line, he is not given much credit for his incomparable
I 
work, but Kizer played for the team and not his own personal
i 
fame and in the inner life of Notre Dame, he will never be 
forgotte~. 
1 
Edward Hunsinger Ri~ht End 
"All things come to him who waits", and the season of 1924 was the reward for Ed Hunsinger of Chillicothe, Ohio. Ever sin~e his freshman year in 1921, Hunsinger has had to con­tend with more experienced competition, but after graduation
1 

had taken Carberry and Mayl from the ranks, Rockne had a faithful and dependable end to call in, who displayed an inimi­i 
table fighting spirit in every game. 
As zealously did Collins guard the left flank, so Hunsinger1 stood watch over the right. Rockne did not drill his ends to turn the play in and smash interference all year merely for
! 
exercise. Experience had revealed .to him, that his team was
i 

I complete with Collins and Hunsinger, and neither wingman ! failed to produce during the long hard season of 1924. Hun­' singer's place will be another spot hard to fill as his verv de­
pendable understudy, Eaton, also graduates in June.· 
I 
I 

I I Bernard Livergood 
~ 
Fullback
i 

1 
I Bernie Livergood came unheralded and unsung from Stonington, Ill., in 1921. .He played on the freshman team and showed much promise of becoming one of the stellar ball car.; riers of future teams. I 
I Fate however intervened and the handicap of injuries which kept him on the sidelines foi· a year was further augmented
I 
by the presence of Layden and Cerney on the squad to make
I 

i the competition harder for a regular berth. However, the fate 
I that kept Livergood in the background during the past two years suddenly changed this fall and Livergood stepped out as one of the demon ball carriers of Notre Dame. His .work all season proved his worth, which hitherto was concealed by force of circumstances. His line plunging and defensive tactics provided thrill after thrill for the football world. He is one of the three fullbacks who graduate in June and leave a huge vacancy to fill next fall. · 
John ~c~anmon Ri~ht Tackle 
John McManmon, of Lowell, Massachusetts, augmented the efficiency·of the right tackle berth by his giant stature this fall. Playing his first year of varsity football, he capably filled in for Rip Miller, when the regular tackle was waiting his turn to go into action. 
McManmon has all the qualities of a tackle. His physical pr_oportions enable him to cover his .territory well and his natural aggressiveness has be_en the thorn in the side of a good 
. many opponents. His year of service with the s!tock troops was completed with great credit and the sporting world of 1925 will expect even greater things :from him. 
Thomas Hearnden Ri~ht Half-Back 


Thomas "Red" Hearndon wh9 came here from Green Bay, Wisconsin, the town that produced the inimitable Jimmy Crow­ley, was one of the new develonments in the 1924 season at Notre Dame. Hearndon and his sophomore teammates were part of the great cycle that rolls around each year; the cycle that is developed while the veterans are carrying on. 
Hearndon, give~ much pron"lise of being avaluable addition to future varsity teams. On numerous occasions he proved his worth as a ball carrier and looked good in the interference. His work on the eastern inv~sions was good enough to elicit special c<;>mmendation from Coach Rockne. 
Edward Scharer Quarterback 

l 
Eddie Scharer of Toledo, can:te to Notre· Dame from the l university of Detroit where he starred in his first year of var­
I
sity football. Scharer learned his game on the famous Waite high school (Toledo) eleven, and although he is not large in ! stature, he has a world of natural ability and a capacity to I think football. 

He alternated at quarterback this fall with "Red" Edwards . and ran his eleven shock troops with the hand of a master. Scharer is a forward passer, but he gave only a few exhibi­tions of his talent· in this department during the year just closed. He was declared out of football for the year at one 1time because of a serious injurY., but medical treatment soon had him back into the lineup. 
Clem Crowe Left End 
Clem Crowe; of Lafayette, I~d,iana, like Noble Kizer came to Notre Dame heralded as a wonder of the basketball court, but Rockne soon began to prepare his great speed and natural aggressiveness for football. 
In the season of 1923, CroweJ playing his first year of var­sity football, broke into the limelight by his vicious tacklingand fast work going down under punts. He faced competi­tion, however, frol'l} a more ~xperien~ed ·rival and during the past season has served admirably with the shock troops ·as understudy to Collins. Crowe's work in the Army and Prince­ton game was especially good and his presence will be valuable on the 1925 squad. 





• :~·--~"'lt ...:!.::... -' '-· ·---·-----.--· 
l. 
1924 FOO'IBI1LL REVIEW Page 17 



Ward Connell 
Ri~ht Half-Back 
\Vard "Doc" Connell of Beloit, has for three years. been a member of the shock troops,_ the men who go in to take the brunt of the fight and at the same time, wear down the op­position.
Connell, a product of the Notre Dame prep school, has been one of Rockne's most dependable ground-gainers, and when the season is over on New Year's pay, fandom will have several games by which to remember the crashing, tearing halfback who bowled over tacklers like so many ten pins. After the defeat at Nebraska last year, Connell exhibited some new stuff in the Butler game, playing with reckless abandon. He re­peated at Carnegie Tech where he made it a habit to score touchdowns. He continued to play great football all this Fall and will be missed when they call the roll for next year. 
William Cerney Full-Back 

Bill Cf.:rney of Chicago, who prepared at St. Ignatius with "Chuck" Collins, was the fiery spirit behind the shock troops ~ i . -. attack. Cerney who has worn the monogram for football for \. ·. three years was forced to contend with Layden and Livergood !· for the regular fullback berth. 
Cerney is a splendid type of the Notre Dame football player, a glutton for punishment and does not know the mean­ing of defeat. His defensive and offensive prowess needs little comment for the Notre Dame fan. Cerney was one of the greatest defensive fullbacks the school has ever known. His courage and driving power gave sparkle to his offense plung­ing, and by adding punting to his talents, he further augmented the versatility of the team. 
Harry O'Boyle Left Half-Back 

Harry O'Boyle of Des Moines, Iowa, proved to be the sophomore flash of the 1924 eleven. His work this fall with the. s~o~k troops is the reason so many sport followers are optimistic for next year's campaign. · 
O'Boyle is a member of the triple threat fraternity al­th?ugh he w~s not called upon to exercise many of his talents this fall.. His spee~ however cqmbined with his stocky build makes him. an elusive ball-carrier and a hard man to· bring d~wn once m the open. He has two more years of competitionWith the Gold and Blue. · 
Richard Hanousek Ri~ht Guard 
Richard Hanousek, of Antigo, Wisconsin, was one of the ~tars of. the f~·eshman team of 1923, and alternated with Kizer m the lme this year, performing his duties with the snap of 
completeness. 
Hanousek was another member of the shock troop band and with many of his team-mates who started on the freshman eleven of 1923, will form the inner workings of the team of 1925. Hanousek played at fullback in his prep school days, ~ut Rockne found better use or him as a guard, as he fitted mto the Notre Dame system of football with ease. His strengt~, his aggressiveness .{lnd naturai football ability have made him a valuable player. 


--i 
I 
Page 18 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Charles Glueckert Left Guard 
Charles Glueckert of South Bend, has served three years in the ~otre Dame line, and although his labors did not net him a letter until this year, the team was satisfied to know that he was there. He performed hj~ work in excellent style and in silence, very little credit ever coming to him for his playing. 
Glueckert's name can be inscribed on that long role of Notre Dame's athletes who went out and gave their best and took their measure of satisfaction in knowing that they were working for Notre Dame. 
Rex Enright Full-Back 
Rex Enright of Rockford, Illinois, remained out of compe­tition this year because of injuries. He will return in 1925 to complete his course in law. Enright has already served two years with the Fighting Irish and has proven himself to be a fullback of merit. His weight and speed and a large quantity of natural ability make him a player of exceptional worth. 
August Stange Lett Tackle 
August Stange was absent from the 1924 football team due to an injury which lingered with him from the season of 1923. Undergoing an operation early in the season unfitted him for active service this year, but he will be back next year for his senior year of competition. Stange was both a depend­able lineman and a punter. His we.ll proportioned build made a good vehicle for all the natural aggressiveness he possessed. 
Max Houser Left Half-Back 
Max Houser, the player who staged a brilliant comeback against Nebraska in 1923, played his first year of college foot­ball with Lafayette university. In eastern gridiron circles Houser gained a wide reputation. Since coming to Notre Dame, he has found himself in particularly fast company to which he soon adapted himself. Like so many other backs on the Notre Dame eleven, he served in shifts and served well. Houser is a passer and a punter as well_ as a ball carrier. 



1924 F007"BALL REVIEW Paqe 19 
Joe Harmon Center 

Joe Harmon of Indianap_olis, the peppery pivot man .who trained faithfully for two years on the Notre Dame football team, before he finally got his ch.ance, completes a year of gal­lant service with the Pasedena game. When Walsh was in­jured at the Army, Harmon and Maxwell took up the burden and at Princeton and Georgia Tech, played wonderful foot­ball. Harmon will be lost to the team for next year. 



~-·-.·--~..~~..•.. ;] Wilbur Eaton Ri~ht End 
Two years of hard work with the varsity squad brought .Wilbur Eaton of Omaha, Nebraska, to the ranks of the foot­ball lettermen this fall. His incomparable fighting spirit and determination to stick to it, made Eaton one of the most val­uable men on the squad. He served as understudy to liunsin­
/g~r and with Crowe, made the going around the flanlg> rather perilous for the opposition. 
John McMullen Left Tackle 

After coming from Chicago, where he made a reputation in high school football, John McMullen was kept from the front ranks only by the force of more experienced material be­fore him. His hard work and determination to carry out the instructions of his coach won for him a place in the shock troops division and McMullen will be welcomed back for next year's campaign. 
John Roach Half.. Back 
Certain sport critics were won·t to ask, "Where does Rockne get such material," as they watched John Roach of Appleton, Wisconsin reel off a couple of 35..;yard runs and incidently score a to~chdown. After hobnobbing with the "Four Horse­men" for a season, Roach came out this year and registered some sterling work, indicating that what he will do next year will have no restrictions. 




-_ --·-·-···-·--1. ----·.:.---~~-····-··· ·-­
J 
'i 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW
Page 20 

Joseph Maxwell Center 
One of the most promising gridders to come to light during the season just closed was Joe Maxwell of Philadelphia. Maxwell learned his football under Stan Cofall, former Notre Dame star, and in his first year of· varsity competition at Notre Dame, played a large part in the season's triumphs. Maxwell is pos­sessed of a· world of natural ability and foot­ball sense and is also an excellent snapper­back. Maxwell has two more years with the varsity. _ 
Herb Eggert Right Guard 
Herb Eggert is a Chicago boy who is just completing his se_cond year of service with the RockmEm. Eggert was listed with the shock troops this fall, and served· with distinction when called upon to play. During the practice drills· this fall, he showed much promise and.· Rockne drilled hip1 constantly until he was able to hold down the guard berth in major games. He will be back with the squad next fall. 
Vincent Harrington Right .·Guard . 
Vincent Harri~gton of Souix City, Iowa, is the gridder, press correspondents like to tell about; the man who makes every trip and until . the 1924 season, Jtad played only thirty seconds in a major game. Harrington however was made of the stuff that Rockne knew would hold up under terrific punishment and when he was called upon to serve, he . fulfilled his assign­ment with everything he had. Harrington will be lost to the squad at graduation. 
Frank Reese Quarterback After a career of ups and downs, during which time frequent injuries greatly handi­capped him, Fra11k Reese, of Robinson, Illinois, · completes his atl_lletic career with the nation­al football cl)ampions. It has not been his for­tune to be the inspiration of football poets, nor direct a great team to sensational vic-· tory, but Reese 11as played his part and played it well. Frank }}as generously· given of his ability to assist in his team's great triumphs. 
Gene Edwards Quarterback Gene "Red" Edwards, of Weston, W. Va., former Kiski star and the quarterback find of the 1924 season is undoubtedly slated to be the Notre Dame Napoleon .of the next two years. The slimly built pilot is the sphinx of the eleven, but 'his silence portends more than a lack of noise. His work during the past season . has been excellent. He has two more years of competition. 
Joseph Boland Left Tackle Joe Boland is also from Philadelphia, and like Maxwell he played football under the tutelage of Cofall. Boland's weight and fight­ing qualities mar;Ie him a valuable gridder in the shock troop's brigade. Time after time the opposition found it tough going when they tried to send plays through Boland. He has two more years of varsity competition. 
Gerald Miller Right Halfback Gerry Miller, ~ brother to Don Miller, imi­. tated his. brothers before him, giving his best for Notre Dame. Gerry, however, lacks the weight for stardom. Gerry is a Notre Dame football man, playing the game hard and clean. 
.Joe Rigali Right_End .Joe Rigaii ·is another· Chicago product who came to Notre Dame intent upon trying out for backfield berth. Rockne, b.u.wever, made a wi'ngman of him and sent him into the firing line several times during the past season. Ri­gali responded with excellent work. He is not large in stature but he is a fighter and knows the game. 
John Wallace Right Tackle . John Wallace of Gary, Indiana, another of Rockne's shock troops, will be back with the squad again next year, after having served ·two years in the line. Wallace like many of the other gridders was forced to compete with players of more experience. His football abili­ties have not been wasted during his days of apprenticeship and his presence on the 1925 squad will be welcome. 

192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 2.1 
~ 
i I 
I I 
I I 
I 
1 

I 
G.eor~e Gipp
I 

4 'The wind bites sharply now the chalk-lined grass, I I But, hid blj night I see a phantom pass From phantom hands, that we once, dearltj, knew,
i 

·Caught btj still dimmer hands, known, too, l Plavedfor.Our Ladlj, as in life thetj plaved, And she applauds, and the frail phantoms fade. 
Gerald Holland 
: [ ·"

::-.-. ~-·~ ....... -----___,._ ~-. l . -·-·· .:_. __ _.: -·-"'··------_: # 
"I 

YOUR TEAM 
Harrlj A. McGuire 
What is the team to you? 
Is it somethin~ to bet on? You'll bet upon.the time 1t takes a four-le~~ed brute to paw.around a track! · . 
Is it somethin~ to boast of at home? That means nothin~ ­you'll boast about the make of car your father's money bou~ht! 
Is it a thin~ to sin~ a,.bout over the cups? No honor there­you'll sin~ about a~~ravatin' papa and that red-headed ~al five minutes l~ed · 
Is it somethin~ ~ood .to look at? So is Valentino if his make,up is ~ood! 
Is it somethin~ that affords you the opportunity for paradin~ your knowled~e of football technique? Exams offer a similar oppor, tunity, yet you dislike them, because they call your bluff! 
Is it somethin~ to criticize? You'll spend thirty minutes a day criticizin~ you_r.janitor! · · . 
Does it mean all ofthese thin~s to you? Let it mean all of them, and you have as yet revealed no viewpoint that sheds credit upon you. · 
For to Notre Dame men their team is somethin~ vital. It stands in their estimation as the in~arnation of the ~lor~es and. the trials, the final triumphs and the inevitable defeats of their school. It apotheosizes in their mi_nds the ideals of Notre Dame -as it crouches there on the·field it is to them the spirit of Notre Dame itself, hoary with years but youn~, defeated but never beaten; viCtor­ious but never victor~ stron~ with the stren~th of war but delicate as a flower ·and ~entle as a ~irl. They see in that mi~hty spirit the hands that have built the .walls. of Notre Dame, the minds that have slaved upon its problems, the lips that have prayed for the school andtfor them. In that spirit they find the souls· of the saints who have drud~ed that they mi~ht live life to the full, and the souls of lon~-for~otten men who .fou~ht ori the field in blood ·that Notre Dame mi~ht have a ~ood tradition. · And they find in that spirit a coura~e and self-sacrifice,· a love of ~ood and scorn for evil that God and His human Mother lend·to the armies ofNotre Dame. 
-That's what their team means to Notre Dame men! 

~.,-.. ____ ;t: __ 
--~------. -... -~·-.:...-------~ -· . 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 23 _ 


.......,, 
Page 24 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Notre Dame 40 Lombard 0 
October 4 was a typical mid-summer day, and too warm for football. Not a 
breath of air was stirring that afternoon when Notre Dame's squad of seventy-seven 
warriors trotted onto Cartier Field for the first game of the season. Lombard ap­
peared shortly thereafter, and an interested football world waited to learn whether 
there was truth in the reports that the 192•1 Notre Dame machine was bigger and 
better than ever. Lombard students were on hand, three hundred strong, and Notre 
Dame's cohorts thronged the cast stands. The whistle blew and the season had 
officially begun. 
As usual, "Rock" started his "shock troops," who held Lombard even· for the first ten minutes. In the middle of the opening quarter a signal was given, and the entire first team pranced out to relieve the substitutes. Thenceforth the game was .just a question of how well the sturdy Lombard defense could stop the charges of the Irish backs. The Four Horsemen were the fleet backs of yore, and O'Boyle and Connell typified the capability of the shock troops by dashes of 50 and 57 yards respectively. The losers were sadly handicapped by the serious injury of Cap~. Lamb, their brilliant little quarterback, who had done much to prevent a larger 
score. 
This game proved Notre Dame's remarkable reserve strength and a toll of six 
touchdowns gave rough evidences of the driving attack that later foes were to expect. 
The Lombard team provided far sturdier opposition than the score would seem 
to indicate. Captain Lamb of Lombard and his teammates presented a well drilled 
and flashy organization, but they were encountering the country's greatest and were 
unequal to the task of stopping the team which was later to conquer the football 
world. 


~-·------·~-·-----------· =. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 25 

"Notre Dam~ too Husky; Lombard Loses by 40 to 0" 
Chicago Sunday Tribune. 

SOUTH BEND, Ind., Oct. 4.-(Special.)­
Lombard and Notre Dame played four quarters 
of listless football here today in the opening 
game of the 1~24 season, Notre Dame winning, 
40 to 0. Sensational runs ranging from 25 to 
65 yards added ~ dash of color to the contest 
at various stages and were responsible for the 
majority of Notre Dame's points. 
· Lamb, captain a11d star quarterback for . Lombard, was c~rried from the field early in the second perioq with a fractured collar bone, sustained when he was tackled in open field by Bella, Notre Dame end. Lamb's removal from 
the game had . a notice­
able effect on the Lorn-

bards' attack and the visit­ors were practically help­less after his injury. 
Don Miller scored twice for Notre Dame at the out­set of the second quarter on end runs. Connell un­corked a 60 yard run for a touchdown in the third, and O'Boyle, a sophomore half, broke away for a pair of 50 yard sprints in t h e concluding period. Lombard outplayed t h e second team R o c k n e started and began early in the contest to open up1 their aerial game. Many passes . were completed,·1 but none of them were I good for more than 3 yards.and a few were. com­
I 

I pleted for losses. 
I 

Joe· Williams relates: 


' 
Mr. Rockne may not be the greatest tutor of pigs-I kin logic in the tax-ridden universe, but if he isn't sapphires Il).ake undesirable jewelry· andl snowdrifts are fille things to use for fuel. 
1 
Mr. Rockne is the ·kind of coach who can take eleven unfilled uniforms, in fairly present­able condition, ap.d make Walt~r Camp break 
down and sob, "Enough, Enough!" MoraCvictories are something which are not
I 

4 tolerated in the Rockne scheme. The Fight­
ing Irish, including the Stuhldrehers, theI Bachs, and the Hunsingers, are sent out to I return with ·their head-guards or in them.I· ' This is the era of the electric light, yet a 
I 
lot of Rockne's ri.vals are still reading the rules ~nder the glare ~f a kerosene lamp. 
' "Bugs" Baer said after the Easter invasions: The Notre Dame football army has been go­ing through· the East like a worm through a tunnel. This is probably the toughest collec­I tion of militia gathered together since those Minute Boys drilled up around Lexington. Yet Notre Dame is not happy. They cleaned 
up the East last year and then went to Nebras­ka, where men are men. The Cornhuskers were supposed to be a lot of stump pullers and crop gatherers who were pretty good in a ten­acre lot if you let them pick their favorite grip. 
The big boys fro!Jl the corn belt bobbed their whiskers, took a reef in "their suspenders and bounced Notre Dame over the terrain. It was a tough finish to a beutiful season. 
Notre Dame is chewing up the East again this year. They cashed a big check in West. Point, and also sold Princeton a bill of goods. But they still have to play Nebraska. 
ON THE SPORT TRAIL (By Fred J. Bendel.) Notre Dame men may 
come and Notre Dame men may go and Garbisch of Army may play forever, but Notre Dame men of all time will recall with the same thrill of pride and 
·joy that Yale recall, Ted Coy, Harvard members Brickley and Mahon and Princeton eulogizes Poe­the name of Ad.am Walsh, captain and star center of the Notr~ Dame football squad. · 
Notre Dame men will thrill with pride when they remember how this same Walsh outplayed Garbisch hailed by many as an All­American · center,· again yesterday, just as the same Walsh did ·a year ago. 
The Army massed its 
bulky power at center or near the middle of the line and Walsh was the man who stopped t.he charge many and many times. The Notre ·Dame men had the ball and Walsh was the man who gave superb interfer­ence. The Army launched a forward pass in the closing moments of the game and· it was the punch drunk Walsh who outguessed the Army quarterback and .was right at the spot at· which the pass was aimed. 
It was Walsh who took two men. out in in­terference. as prettily timed as a . "military maneuver, allowing Crowley to ·flash by·the last outposts of the Army defense in his sensational sprint for nearly half the length of the field. 
Twice .the tangled masses of humanity on the gridiron at the Polo Grounds was torn apart to reveal Walsh · to all appearances stretched o_ut cold on the ground. But. each 
·time he was lifted to his· feet and like a terrier he shook off the ·stunning effect of the pound­ing he was receiving. It was a superb Notre Dame team that won 
· and a great Army team that lost. 

~~:... • • '~ -" • ' • -~ • • -~ • c. • • -~ ' • ~. -• 

Page 26 ·1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 34 Wabash 0 
\Varming to the task of going through the hard season before them, the battling Irish outfit ran rough-shod over the "Little Giants" of \Vabash by .a 34-0 score. Some fifteen thousand zealots saw "Rock's" lads rounding into the great grid ma­chine that was to crush down teams, representing every section of the country~ The crowd also saw the b~ckfield qu.artet, which was to be heralded as one of the greatest 1 of all time, run wild over the helpless though struggling Wabash men. 
I 
It wa sthis game which aided Coach Rockne to iron out the kinks in prepara­
"' 
tion for the struggle witl~ the Army on the following Saturday. It was this game also which gave Rockne an idea of the power which lay in his reserve teams. I 
Occasional flashes of the brilliant performances which were to follow, were 
I 
present in ~he dashes of Jimmie Crowley, Elmer Layden and others. That perfect organization and morale was noticeable in the "Wonder Team"; perfections were to I bring it through one of the most brilliant saesons ever enjoyed by any_grid outfit. 
I 
The ·vVabash game was the initial appearance of one of the greatest little gen­erals of the year, Harry Stuhldreher, who was _to lead his famous backfield mates 
1 
through one of the most glorious seasons ever enjoyed by a Notre Dame team~ And 
I
he was not long in displaying his marvelous abilities, which were to earn for him the the appellation "Napoleon of the Gridiron."· 
i
I 
The \Vabash victory created a feeling of optimism on the Notre Dame campus. This optimism, well-seasoned with "Rock's" pessimistic "show me" attitude, fur­! 
i 
nished a perfect atmosphere for tllC tea~'s battle with the Army tl~e following Satur­
\
day afternoon. · 
I 
I 
I I 
) 
....I 
l 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I I· 
I 
I 
I 
I 



1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 27 


''Notre Dame is Monarch of All American Grid'' 
By DAvis J. WALSH, Cleveland News. 

Remove the tin foil and tissue paper wrap­From Mr. Batchelor's Article in the ping, waft a handful of dust over the collection 
"Detroit Saturday Night."

and present the corsage of American beauties 
to Notre Dame university. For the first time 
No printed word can begin to convey an idea

these many years, we have an unchallenged · national champion of collegiate football and of the speed, the precision and the power of Notre Dame is it. One can no more go behind this (Notre Da111e~s backfield. Imagine two the records than one can go behind the nape 
Granges, a Friedman and Lidberg placed onof his neck, and the .records show the Irish to the same team. Imagine them .trained to­be the only undefeated and untied football 

team of any conseguence between the two gether for three y~ars so that they could go 
oceans. through their plays in the dark, standing on 
Darmouth has as sound a record as any their heads, or · left-handed. Imagine them 
team in eastern football. drilled daily by a football 
Yet Dartmouth was tied by 
genius whose plays would Yale, which in turn was 
make crossword puzzlestied by West Point, which 
s e e m childishly' simple.lost to Notre Dame. Yale, 
Then imagine them gearedanother unbeaten eastern 
up to the speed shown by team, is eliminated from 
the participants in a slap­national consideration by stick movie comedy, and the same equation. 

you will have some idea Pennsylvania's r e c o r d 
of "The ·Four Horsemen." alike is untarnished by de­
It is not only the greatest feat. But Penn was tied 
backfield of today, but by Penn State, which was 
probably. the greatest that beaten by Georgia Tech, 
the modern game ·of foot­which lost to Notre . Dame. 
ball has produced." So much for the east. 
It is a question whether The middlewest has Chi­
four other men could be cago as champion of its 
picked from the entire Big· Ten conference, but 
country and drilled to the Stagg entry lost its 
·such. efficiency in .a single opening game to Missouri 
season. Certainly if the and was tied by Ohio State 
All-American "team ever and Wisconsin, which lost 
existed for playing pur­to Notre Dame. 
poses instead of for argu­And what of Missouri? 
ment among the fans it .It was beaten by Nebraska, 
would get much better re­which disposed of Kansas 
.sults from this perfect-fit­before coming to South 
ting smooth-working com­Bend to lose to Notre bination of Rockne's than Dame. That would seem to eliminate the from any quartet that 'Valter Camp will pick. Missouri valley ~onference in toto, as far as These ~ay not be the four best backs in the Notr~ Dame is Goncerned. country individually, but collectively the yare 
in a class by themselves. Notre Dame is

The southern c_hampion is Centre college, be­
doubly proud of them, too, because they arecause of its victory over Alabama and Georgia. 

"home grown." 'rhe South Bend institutionBut the Colonels finished second to West Vir­does not seem to be able to offer the induce­ginia, which lost to Pittsburgh, which lost. to ments to great stars of the preparory schoolCarnegie Tech, which lost to Notre Dame. 

ranks that some of the other colleges do andThis far,· the cycle of elimination is perfect. 

she doesn't get many of them. So Rockne hasIt leads to South Bend, Ind. for its climax in 

to "raise them from pups."

every case. The only break in the continuity is found · on the far coast,· which has had no contest to 
GREATEST MODERN BACKFIELD

date with football· as played in the middle west 
Perry Lewis, Phila.delphia ·Inquirer.

and south. The champions_hip team of the coast confer­Here are four men who function together ence is Leland Stanford. It might be · the like a piece ·of well-oiled machinery. Their 
greatest team in the world, at that, but your team \vork is superb. Their individual bril­supply of rhetoric fails before you can con­liance dazzling. There isn't a department of 
vince a Californian that this is fact~ not fancy. backfield play at which they do not excel, and California. and Stanford played a 20 to 20 tie working behind a line· which knows its business,
in their firial game, so that Stanford's title is by they are omnipotent. It is a wondrous football no means conclusive. machine which Rockne has c~·eated. 


: i -· .~ 
•11:·'·
,._ ·. 
r_ .: ­
Page 28 1924 FOO?:BA~REVIEW 
Notre Dame 13 Army 7 
Again the "Fighting Irish" swept out of the Vvest to meet their traditional foe 
of the Plains. ·But this time the scene of the battle was set not on the majestic "Storm King" but down at "Coogan's Bluff," before sixty thousand frenzied rooters. 
The first quarter consisted mostly of an even punting duel between Wood of the Army and Elmer Layden who had replaced Cerney at full-back. In the second quarter the sixty thousand spectators were brought to their feet by the consistent attack of the Rockmen. . Getting possession of the baij. on their fifteen yard line," Stuhldrchcr, Crowley, :Miller and Layden showed that they warranted all the praise and admiration heaped upon them. Jimmie rounded the end for twenty yards; then Don cut loose with eleven more. Harry shot a pass to Crowley which. ~ctted twelve yards. And while Grantland Rice, perched in the press boxes, was having the great idea of the "Four Horsemen", Stuhldreher, Layden, Crowley and :Miller did every­thing a backfield could possibly do, and did it perfectly. Laygen went over for the first touchdown and the quarter en.ded with the score: Notrc Dame 6; Army 0. 
In the third quarter, Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death, or rather, Stuhldrchcr, Layden, Crowley and :Miller, again fell upon the eleven Army men­and Crowley went over for another touch-down. The period ended: Notre Dame 13; 

:,'1 I' Army 0. 
During the fourth quarter, .\Vilson of the Army got away for a 45 yard run· but the Army attacy promptly fizzled. Wood punted to Notre Dame's ten yard line. Layden punted out· of danger but the Irish were penalized fifteen yards. A clever bit. of strategy by the Army enabled Harding, the Cadet quaterback, to cross· the Notre Dame goal. The gam~ ended with the score: Notre Dame 13; Army 7. 


The 1924 Army team is worthy of the greatest praise..·"Fighting and danger­ous to the very end," our own heroes said. 
j 
l I. 
I
;· I I
• 
! l 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
!'I
.I i 

,I 


1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 29 
"Notre Dame Eleven Defeats Army" 
New Y orlc Times. 

Moving with speed, power and precision, Knute .Rockne's Notre Dame 'football machine, 1924 model, defeated the Army, 13 to 7, be­fore 60,000 at t]:le Polo Grounds yesterday. The Hoosiers scored a. touchdown in the sec­ond period and another in the third, and the Army's only rebuttal was a touchdown shortly after the fourth yeriod had begun. But at that late hour the soldiers were tired and battered, and the machine went on to \vin. 
West Point pluck against Notre Dame's rna­orite weapon sheathed in the scabbard. Not more than a half dozen times during the game did he strike \vith his forward pass attack. In­stead, he met the soldiers on their own ground -the level terra firma. With a relentless drive he attacked the wings, the tackles and the cen­ter of the Army's line. The cadets, prepared for a stiff aerial bombardment, were unpre­pared for this offensive, and it was npt until the fourth period that they learned the trick 
of stopping the t\visting, elusive, smashing at­

chine was a one-sided proposition, and it was · tack put on by one of the best backfields in the a clean-cut victory. An epic might be written country. For three periods Miller, Crowley,about the Army's brave Layden and Stuhldreher stand and gallant counter-.--~---------...;..._-----. . ripped and t o r e an d 

attack in the final-qua~ter; but after all it was Notre 
(_Dame which had the speed, 
apt. AdtH\"\Wols·h cov.ldn•t 

the deception, the decisive 
h~"e. be.e.n K~ rt do~'"' in punch and, to boot, the. 
1:. he. Arm'\ ~a 11\e e"'e"' if he coaching genius of Knute 
had be e."' c.\-!. a it\ e d o 

Rockne. _ · If an epic could be writ­ten about the Army, there was also material for sev­eral poems in the swift, dashing play of the men from I n d i a n a . Notre Dame's backfield attack had some of the poetry of motion about it. Launched from well-concealed and deceptive positions, i t · swept the · Army flanks, darted outside· and inside the tackles and tore jagged holes in the line. When 
Miller, Crowley and Stuhl­dreher took the ball and started around the end, they ran like men inspired. 
On a reduced scale the contest was· another Army-Navy game. Next to the crowd that·· attended last year's service classic at the Polo Grounds, the throng was the 
biggest in New York football history. Nearly 
every seat· was filled. 
It was also one of the most notable of grid­iron, gatherings. In addition to Secretary of War Weeks, Major Gen. Robert Lee Bullard and other distinguished army officers, Dr. Hugo Eckener, commander of the ZR-3, watched· what was probably his first American football game. -In the company of. Secretary \Veeks, 
-the commander of the history-making ze-ppelin walked twice around the field in the -third and fourth period. · 
There were hearty cheers for Secretary Weeks and thousands stood and craned their necks, but ·few recognized the megium-built man-in a quiet suit of dark blue, his blond head bared, who walked \vith the Secretary. 
If Dr. Eckener came to see Notre Dame win 
swooped, and when the cadets finally checked the grinding machine it was too late. 
* * * * 
It :was a game designed to please the fancy of every sort of football fol­lower. For the students of the gridiron there was a rare display of football de­ception and speed in Notre Dame's \Veil-balanced at­tack; for · the casual fol­lower there was an eye­filling sight in the fleet dashes of Crowley and Mil­ler and Harry Wilson around the far-flung flanks. And for the lover of spec­tacles there was -a touch of life and color in the .vastness of the crowd, in the· picture of the flag­draped horseshoe and in the Cadet Corps maneu­
vers before the game. 
HAIL TO ROCKNE A rousing reception is scheduled for Coach 
K. K. Rockne and his conquerors of the Army mule when the victory-flushed Irish footballers climb off .the rattler at the New York Central station Sunday afternoon at 5:22 o'clock. 
The entire Notre Dame student body, headed by the univel;'sity band, will_ -be on· hand to ex­tend·. the glad hand_to .the ·returning heroes and to parade ·them through the center of town. Cheer Leader Eddie Luther, who accompanied the team to New York and who led the Notre Dame cheering_ section at the Polo ·grounds 
yesterday, will direct the parade and lead the student body in cheers for the victorious Gold and Blue. 
. Notre Dame alumni in New York city will fete the triumphant Irish laddybucks to-night,
but it is expected that Rockne and his preteges
\vill depart from Gotham early .Sunday morn-

through the air, Ire 'was ·disappointed.--So~·\vere ----ing. ··The· .exact ·tinie of' their iu·rival -has not 60,000 others, for. Coach :Rockne _kept his~ fav-be~n-ascertained. ___ · 
.·. '~. ~ . -·. .-... 
Page 30 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 12 Princeton ~ 0 
To twist the Tiger's tail is a coveted privilege among the major football teams. of the country, especially outside of the New England states. The 12-0 score did not represent the respective margin of ability. Crowley was the star of the game, running wild for two touchdowns and gaining 250 yards during the afternoon. It was a great game. Notre Dame seemed to be able to gain at will and for a second time the Fighting Irish trimmed Princeton. The Tiger was never once within 30 yards of the Blue and Gold goal line. 
The Princeton victory gave Notre Dame the second "double win" in the East; the publicity from it is still running the gamut among Eastern sports writers. The Tiger always furnishes strong, colorful opposition. 
October 25 was a great day for the Irish. They were truly "Rockets"; they sailed through the air for passes, sped with sho,vers of sparks along the Princeton turf, leaving behind them a trail of brilliant fire· and smoke. The Four Horsemen again won the name given to them by Grantland Rice the Saturday previous. 
There were many stars in the Princeton game who did not gallop but did every­
thing else. \Veibel and Kizer demonstrated that it was not all backfield that did the 
work. And the slashing ;work of Bach and Rip :Miller did not go un~oticed. It '\vas 
C~liefly due to their efficient line-work that Crowley was able to slip through the slits . in the rampart for the large gains. A crowd of 45,000 ·crowded Palmer stadium at Princeton to see the "comet" flash. The Irish crashed for twenty,-three first downs to four for the Tiger's. 

1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 81 
"Great Nassau Tiger Snared" 
By DAVIS J. \VALSH, New Yorlc Times.. 

PRINCETON, N. J., .Oct. 25.-The p.en, they say, is mightier than the sword and this afternoon Notre Dame proved that the rapier has it all over the blunderbus when it defeated Princeton for the secondtime in as many years. The score was only 12 to 0, but it did not rep­resent the respective abilities of these two football teams a_ny more than arsenic repre­sents a toothsome dish. 
Princeton, in the first place, had no Crow­ley. He was to Notre Dame what the point is to the rapier and his lightning thrusts off tackle simply knifed the Princeton defense in­to smithers. 
Crowley made the two ried the ball l}.lmost the length of the field on no less than four occasions. 
Two of them resulted in touchdowns, a third was ruled out by a penalty and Crowley's fum­ble on the nine-yard line prevented a fourth. 
It was a very natty. exhibition for a team that was outweighed about 20 pounds to the individual man, that going for the defense as well as the attack. 
Incidentally, the defense was tested even though. Princeton didn't theaten but merely threatened to threaten. 
(Special Dispatch to The World). 

official touchdowns, and 
PRINCETON, Oct. 25­added a n o t h e r which 
Wow, wow, wow, wow! b e c a m e strictly u n ­
Better move ·along
Col\i n s ~ r.J Hun ~ in 9e~ 1: rj to

official, not to say out of 
When you hear the Tigerorder, when a Notre Dame 
dote out how Pr-incei"o"' lV\<:!d~ 

sing man was detected holding. 
-thr-ee 't~'r~S ~n·ouhd -\h_e. endso His jungle song.In all, Crowley pro9ably 
The words above, boom-gained 250 yards as a per­

ing from the Princetonsonal contribution to the 


stands at Palmer Stadium cause. Many a Tiger claw today, reached the ears of was laid upon him as he Knute Rockne's skyrocketshifted outside tackle for backs, Crowley, Miller and runs ranging from five to Layden.

35 yards but a Tiger claw "Great stuff," said they,may scratch but it never individually and collective­was known for its ability ly, "left's go;" and move ... to retain its hold on a two along they did, twistingi legged, sprinting eel that turning, breaking out of
! 

seemed to be afflicted with 
the grasps of Princetonthe buck jumps. 

tacklers time and again, to Certainly no single claw 
beat the Tigers 12 to 0 and was able to stop Crowley 
shatter the Tigers' dream today for .any appreciable 
of revenge for l~~t year's part of a tenth of a second. 
25 to 2 defeat. Princeton was lucky that

He was at once the the score was not t\vice as power, the speed, the grace much. · 
! ·and the agility of the en-· .i tire Notre Dame attack. Layden kicked in' with many ·a short gain through the line, occasion­
1 ally Don Miller broke loose around the end and I every so often .Stuhldreher wafted a forward I pass into the arms of a Notre Dame receiver, but on the wh9le-it was Crowley and no other who beat Princet.on today.
~ 

i It was he who sent even the Princeton sec­tion of the 40,000 crowd wending its dazed 
I 
I way back into town, muttering and shaking its befuddled head, but ready to grarit that it had witnessed a master performance· by a ·master workman. As for their own team, little could 
be said beyond the fact that it went down fight­ing. But a blunderbus is hardly to be classed as a modern \Ve.apon. Princeton was anything but modern today. It had no real running at­tack or else it was that Notre Dame's defense was too good. In any case it is a matter of record that Princeton never once advanced within the 30-yard line while ~otre J?ame car­. This ·was. no sluggish,
poorly eqmpped Navy team that. the· jungle 
c~ts we~e up ag?inst, .~ut a first class, splen­
didly drilled and conditioned aggregation with 
a consistent running attack"built on speed and 
deception carried out by a quartet of chain­
lightning backs who ~ould not be stopped. 
~rinceton had no chance to pull any psycho­
logical stuff, for Notre Dame refused to err .and. the Tigers lacked the continuity of offense to put her in a p9sition to strike with the pass­
ing gam_e which went so well against the Navy. 
Three first downs by rushing was all she could earn today while her opponents were pil­ing up 14. · 
Rockne started a complete substitute line­up to save his battered regulars as much as possible. The s~bs held Princeton even for a period, and then came the regulars. The pres­sure was applied at once. 

Page 8.2 19.24 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
============================================================ 
Notre Dame 84 Georgia Tech 8 
The "Golden Tornado" of Georgia Tech bowed to Notre Dame before one of . the largest and most colorful Homecoming crowds ever to witness a struggle on. Car-: tier Field. The "Wonder Team", fresh from its Eastern triumphs, ran. wild ·over the Georgia Tech team for a 3<1-3 win. 
The mighty vVycoff and his mates fouglit as do always these valiants from the south, but when the great backfiel~ swung into action, even without the generalship <>f Harry Stuldreher who was injured in the Princeton game, the Yellow Jackets were buried in an avalanche of scores.. Crowley, l\Iiller and Layden, collectively, played one of the best games of the season. · First one, then the other and steadily, brilliantly, the ball was advanced down the ·field to the Tech goal. 
Georgia Tech struggled desperately ti1at afternoon to dim Rockne's hopes, and 
·never once gave up their hopeless task. Even in the final seconds of play 'Vycoff· made a beautiful effort only to have a hurtling blue form end it as quickly as it had begun. A conquering Notre Dame teall} was playing before a Homecoming crowd, .a crowd typifying the magnificent-spirit which was carrying the team onward to. an undefeated season. · · 
It was another sectional triumph for the Rockmen; another victory, which made possible for the sport scribes the later choice of National Champions. 
In this victory, the line performed brilliantly, the work of Rip Miller, 'Veibel .a.nd Walsh being espeCially good. The "shock troops," which carried a great part of ±he burden of the game, played well_, with Roach, Eaton and Livergood meriting ·especial·praise. 

! ·Notre Dame plays no better sports_men than the .men from Georgia Tech, and 
!" 
Jooks forward to welcoming to Cartier Field many times in the future, the· "Southern ·Gentlemen." · 
·,.. 

·~ 
J. 
Three Geor2ia Tech Men Stop Don Miller. Note the Flying Tackle. 


' 
. '.  
. ·.: ..  




1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 83 

"Notre .Dame is 84-S Victor Over Golden Tornado" 
Chicago Sunda.11 Tribune. · 

.SOUTH. BEND, Ind., Nov. 1.-Sensational runs by Douglas Wycoff of Georgia Tech, full back, and Notre Dame's squad of back field stars featured Notre Dame's 34 to 3 victory over the southerners in the annual homecoming game here today. Approximately 17,000 per­
. sons sa\v the Irish machine in its first home ap­pearance since its triumphant conquest in the east. · 
Georgia Tech took advantage of. the Notre 
· Dame seconds early in the first period, and Wy­coff promptly ran through the bewildered Rock­men for 40 yards, ·placing the ball on Notre · Dame's. 35 yard line. A se1·ies of line bucks netted 
a few .yards, .and on the crucial third · down Will­iams· place-kicked 42 yards for his. team's 3 · points. 
Tech threatened again in the :closing minutes of the game when .Barron fumbled Reese's ·punt in midfield and Wycoff re­covered, running to Notre Dame's 1 yard line before being overtaken by Cough­lin, a substitute halfback.. Time was called before Tech could line up for the next · play. Notre Dame had trouble getting started against: the dogged defense of the southerners in· the first quarter. Wycoff led the· Tech offense in a spir­ited attack and pushed the seconds .back down the eral times during the third and fourth periods Notre Dame marched down within ·striking dis­tance of Tech's goal only to have the South­erners brace and hold for downs. ·wycoff led his team in every play, being the king-pin on both offense and defense. 
Notre Dame played the entire game without the services of Stuhldreher, quarterback ex­traordinary, who was injured at Princeton -last week. Edwards and Scharer, both playing their first season of varsity football, gave plausible accounts of themselves in the absence of Stuhldreher. 
Edwards p 1a y e d the 

greatest part of .the game with the varsity outfit, while Scharer guided the seconds in their campaign·. 
. It was a great day for substitutes. Roach an d Connell, two half iJacks with a reputation f o r speed, cut out a number of nice gains,· affording a series of spectacular runs to the afternoon's enter­tainment. Connell played the great part of the game and was one of the most consistent ground gainers used by Rockne. 
Tech appeared weak in the right side of 'their line all during the· third and fourth periods, Livergood assaulting this sector with amazing results throughout the half. Livergood wasfield .time and time again. 


the one man who gained on
Quoyte:tte.

At the start of the sec-· 
every: play against the 

ond period Rockne sent his 
Southerner's defense. His 

first string into the game, pressing the injured Adam Walsh into service in an· attempt to stop the rushes of Wycoff and his teammates. 
rh.e varsity offense directed by Edwards soon got under way and _started one of its famous marches down the gridiron. Don Mil­ler, made 35 yards around left end; Crowley hit right tackle for 16, and Cerney made 7· through the center. Tech brace.d when Notre Dame had pushed it into the shadow of ·its own goal posts and with fourth down on Tech's 11 yard ·line; Crowley passed to Don Miller behind the goal line fo1; Notre Dame's first score. 
A · similai· .play in the fourth quarter with Scharer passing to Roach was good for a simi­lar gain :and ·a touchdown. Roach made one of Notre Dame's touchdowns in the second quarter on a line buck from. the 3-yard. line after ·he had ·circled the visitors' left end for 45 yards: · 
Tech played a hard game of football show­ing. a gri~ determination in the pinches. Sev­
· runs of 10 and 20 yardsfigured prominently in the scoring of the last two touchdowns. 
Ford C. Frick Says: Sing a song of Notre Dame · Shout their praises wide, ' Tell of Crowley' sturdy might
Sing of Layden's stride.. · ' 
Spread the news of Miller's speedSpeak of Walsh's game, ' Fighters of the bulldog breed~ Her~'s to Noti·e Dame! 
But-.. · When you've finis_hed all· thut, ladies and 
gentlemen; when you have lauded the. prowess of Layden and Crowley and Miller· when you've told of the wizardry of Rockne a~d sung the laudations of a line that· wouldn't be 
turned.. . When you've done all that, then it's time to rise to your f~et, every durn one of you and do.ff. your hats and spend one silent mom~nt in . tribute to the greatest of them all r . That's little, tow-headed Harry Stuhldreher! 


···;,;-:.-. 

-~------------­
-----------~~----=---;_-=~:__: ·::.. -------=----------··-··-~..:..___:._ ­

THE LARGEST CROWD EVER PACKED INTO CARTIER FIELD, STANDING WHILE THE NOTRE DAME BAND PLAYS ·THE VICTORY MARCH BETWEEN THE HALVES AT THE NEBRASKA GAME. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 35 
Notre Dame's First Football Team 
In ·1887 


Left to right, bottom row-Harry :M. Jewett, right halfback; J. E. Cusack, quarterback; Henry B. Luhn, left halfback; Ed Prudhomme, fullback: Second row-J. L. Hepburn, right end; George Houck, right tackle; E. A. Sawkins, right guard:. Frank Fehr, center; Pat Nelson, left tackle: Gene Melady, left guard; Frank Springer, left end. 
In 1924 


Left to right: Joseph Hepburn, of Detroit; Frank Hagenbarth, of Salt Lake City; Dr. Henry B. Luhn, Spokane, Wash.; Col. Wm. Luhri, · Omaha, Nebr.; Edward Prudhomme, Bermuda, La.; George Houck, Portland, Oregon; Patrick Nelson, Dubuque, Iowa; Wm. P. McPhee, Denver; Frank Fehr, Louisville; Eugeno Melady, Jr., and Eugene 1\lelady, Sr., Omaha. The other members of the team were unable 
· to attend the celebration. 

.-....-•..-.•:--··· ... -.~--~ 
Page S6 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Notre Dame 88 Wisconsin 8 
Camp Randall Stadium presented a colorful spectacle that day of November 8, when forty-thousand persons gathered to see Rockne's men make their 1924 debut against a Big Ten team. This game was the attraction for Notre Dame's annual student trip so that vVisconsin' s famous Cardinal cheering section was well matched by the large Gold and Blue· array in the opposite stands. The crack bands of Notre Dame and 'Visconsin marched onto the field and combined in alternate renditions of "On 'Visconsin" and the "Victory :March". Then the teams trotted out, ·and the demonstration that followed will not soon be forgotten by anyone who was at _Camp Randall that day. 
As usual, Rockne started his "shock troops", and by the end of the first quarter the score stood Wisconsin 3, Notre Dame 3, the .result of the drop-kicking accuracy of Harmon of vVisconsin and O'Boyle of Notre Dame. Then came the call, and the entire first team burst onto the field while the Notre Dame stands went into an up­roar. Then the fun hegan. 
Crowley, :Miller, Layden, and Stuhldreher were whirlwinds that day, and· the line, from end to end, was adamant. Wisconsin fought gamely, but in vain. Light­ning thrusts off tackle and sudden swerves around the ends rarely failed to gain yardage, and when the Gold and Blue ~rst team left the field Notre Dame led 31-3. The last quarter found the "shock troops" again in action and the attack was waged as furiously as before, culminating this time in a touchdown by Roach. Notre Dame was:i~vincible_in the \Visconsin game. All the men seemec;I. to have a good day; the team-play. was perfect.. The Notre Dame student body holds pleasant memories of \Visconsin University as a re·sult ··of the student trip to :Madison. 


.,.. ,,-•• _,!_....,________ ~-· 
1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW Page 37 


"Rockne Cavalry Rides Rough Shod Over Wisconsin" 
By JAMES CnusiNDERRY, Chicago Sunday Tribune. 

MADISON, Wis., Nov. 8.-(Special.)­Knute Rockne's great Notre Dame football team swamped Wisconsin this afternoon at Camp Randall, 38 to 3. Had the South Bend coach kept his cp.valry backs in the game all the time he might have doubled the count. He had them in long enough to roll up 28 points in about two quarters of the time. · Te rest of the battle was carried' on by his infantry, tho second, third, an~ perhaps the fourth and fifth string men being on the battle front about half time and scoring 10 points against the Badgers. 
Wisconsin's only score came at the close of the first period when the Badgers played their best and crowded the Rockne kids down almost against their own goal line. They had a first down inside of the Notre Dame 20 yard line and then Leo Harmon of the Badgers tore through for 7 yards. 
Right then a11d there Gen. Rockne called out his cavalry. He halted the play while eleven regulars, on the bench, yanked off coats and sweaters and pulled on headgear and ran out upon the field to take the place of the young infantry. Loud cheers came from the 
c;~

Notre Dame rooters as the horsemen galloped upon 

~
~~.__ ___..__. end. Crowley had added athe battlefield. The kids T' "F \1 · ·· point after every touch-had scored a field goal and ne o u ~ ·n·Q rse "tne"'" d \ d. . down by carefully kicking..were leading, 3 to 0, but 

so':"e. ~~e.~t ~tdin9 in the. goal and the score stood

had been driven back into their own territory. 
W1s coo ~ 1 h 9~ 1"1'\ e • 31 to 3. Then Gen. Rockne arose

It is the credit of Wis­


consin what happened then. A lanky back named McGivern was handed the ball and told to charge into those cavalrymen. He did and made it first down on the 11 yard line. The cavalry seemed about to be driven back. · 
Again the Badgers charged. Three times they tore into those horsemen but in the three attacks they made .only 7 yards. Then Do~le Harmon dropped back to his 14 yard line and booted the ball over the bar. for 3 points that tied the score. · 
It was the big moment of the day for the· Wisconsin rooters. They had tied the count against Rockne's great team and they made the most of it. Tremendous cheers rolled across the field from the west stand where the Cardi­nal rooters were massed. But over in the east stand Notre Dame's cheering throng wasn't worried. Their c.avalry was in the fight. They were confident Qf success. And it was only a· few minutes before they were. rewarded. 
The quarter ended a tie, 3 to 3, but in the second periqd thqse terrible South Bend horse­
men started to ride-they were rough riders, every one of them. They simply galloped over the foe. 
Wisconsin's men were left helpless upon 4.:he battlefield as Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, and Stuhldreher galloped.
In the second period they galloped over the Cardinal uniforms for two touchdowns. They had the count,· 17 to 3 in their favor when the hali ende~ . 
When the third period opened, all the cavalry was back for more galloping. They wanted to ride down the field some more before turning
the game over again to the infantry. 
The period had barely begun when Crowley rode down the field for a 60 yard gain, planting the ball on \Visconsin's 25 yard line; Don Miller, Layden, and Crowley then rode over the goal . line in a series of most damaging attacks, · and the · South Bend boys had the count 24 to 3 in their favor. 
Still not satisfied, the horsemen took their places for some more riding and fn about ten minutes, an­other touchdown had been counted, Crowley going over £or a score on a short run around the Badger left 
from his bench and called off his cavalrymen. Their work was done. They 
·went to their barracks. The battle was won and there was no doubt the infantry could hold the fort.. Never did one· see so many young football men rushed into battle. No one in the press stand could call them by name. It is doubtful if Mr. Rockne himself knows more than half o'f theiu. The program "didn't have as many on the list as Mr. Rockne had in uni­form. He sent one squad in after another. Seemed as if there couldn't be that many stu­dents in the whole South Bend school. 
These youngst~rs, however went out on the field and fought like tigers. They all hope to be horsemen some qay like Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, and Stuhldreher. They wanted to show what they could do. 
When the gam~ ended, Notre Dame students, led by their band, did a snake dance on the field and ·tossed their hats over the cross bars at each end of the field. It looked as if there were a f~w well ·known Chicago men of celtic origin out there romping with the students. 

Page 88 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 84 Nebraska ~ 6 
A packed and colorful crowd, which combined all of the enthusiasm of hope and confidence, provided a noble stage for the Irish victory against Nebraska. Notre Dame had vengeance and a pleasant day, tilting the Nebraskans off Cartier field, 34-6. There may be games with more sensational playing, with more artistic foot­ball handling, but none, past or future, will ever appeal to the heart of Notre Dame men as this game which witnessed Rockne erasing the memory of two years defeat, by trouncing the huge Cornhusker squad soundly, without apology, before a crowd of 26,000 persons, the largest crowd of fans ever gathered in the Cartier Field stands. 
Tickets for the,Nebraska game went like wildfire and weeks before N ovembcr 15 there was not a reserve card to be had except at the hands of scalpers. Even general admissions for standing room were snapped up like diamonds. They stood, they sat on fences, they sat on the sidelines, they hung on the stands, but they saw Rockne's "vVonder Team" douse the light of the Nebraska crew. 
In the first period when ~ ebraska punched through for a touchdown on a fum­ble there was a big lump in the throats of Notre Dame faris-but not for long. Just as soon as the first string men swung into action it was all over with Nebraska. Look­ing back, it seems like a pleasant dream, the way :Miller and Crowley swiped the ends, ran the tackles, and piled over the white chalk lines. Layden, though battered severely, kept hammering the center. of the line; \Valsh and Bach were out for clean revenge. "Chuck" Collins did not give the Nebraska halfbacks a ghost of a chance. 
'.;['he Nebraska game will ever live in the minds of those who saw it, as one of the greatest exhibitions of football ever given by any team in any football age. The Nebraska tie was broken, the jinx thrown off. For Notre Dame men, it was glorious.. 

THE FIRST TOUCH-DOWN OF THE PRINCETON GAME 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 39. 
"Notre Dame Soars Over Corn...Fed Nebraska" 
By KENNETH S. CoNN, South Bend Tribune 

SOUTH BEND, Ind., Nov. 15.-Notre Dame can again raise her head in rightful pride. N e­braska is sadly outclassed, so badly beaten that the score of 34 to 6 fails to show the vast superiority the Rockmen displayed yesterday afternoon at Cartier Field. 
The airplane is more effective than the bat­tleship. The crow can cover more territory than the tortoise.. The speeding shell from a howitzer can reach its objective quicker than a tank. And Notre Dame is a better team than Nebraska. So much and more was proved yesterday before the largest throng of alumni and football followers that 
ever witnessesd a classic on the local gridiron. The 26,000 spectators saw the football capital. of the uni­verse · permanently located in South Bend for this sea­son. They also· saw Rock­men crowned national col­
. legiate champions. Rock­nes' proteges won the un­deniable right to wear the purple toga and to wave the football sceptre with undisputed authority. 
But what is best of all the Rockmen avenged the defeats of .1922 and 1923. The victory over the Corn­huskers was the healing salve that will completely efface the scars of those two encounters. It was not in the books for Nebraska to keep the Crown Prince from ascending the throne three years in succession. Yesterday was coronation day at Notre Dame. 
The score does not show the vast difference between· the Rockmen and Cornhuskers. The Rockmen completely outclassed their opponents in every department of the game. Twenty­three first downs for Notre Dame as compared to two first downs for Nebraska gave the fans some idea of the complete swamping the west­ern players received. · 
It was an old game. Not a single star loomed forth from the western sky .unless Bloodgood can be ranked among the celebrities for his scooping up of Lp.yden's fumble that finally re­sulted in Nebraska's lone score ·and his spear­ing a forward pass .in the last quarter which resulted in one of his team's first downs. Then there was Ed Weir,. Nebraska captain, who played a whale of a game at left tackle and was practically his whole team's ·defense on line plays. 
For Notre Dame it is a different story, a vastly superior· tale. In Notre Dame's back­field. there danced Miller, Crowley and Layden, directed by the greatest field wizard that has ever turned turf .at Cartier Field, Harry Stuhl­dreher. So to single out any one of the lead­ing lights of the game would be a rank injus­tice to the other three. 

First it was Miller circling around the ends for notable gains, then it was Crowley, and then there was Layden splitting the line with the speed and momentum of a cannon ball. Then to top it off there was Stuhldreher to carry the ball or to toss the pigskin with deadly accuracy into the hands of his waiting backs. They were all there, they were all stars and together they make Notre Dame the greatest 
eleven in football history. 
After the backs, who al­ways rank first due to' their spectacular playing, comes the Notre Dame line. In the center stood Adam Walsh, captain of t h e Rockmen, and his se'ction of the forward wall pre­sented a defense that was impregnable. His offensive playing also ranked higher than can be expected of a lineman. The whole line held its own against N e­braska.. And the ends, well, they usually stopped the Cornhusker backs for either no gain or _loss. 
Possibly the most spec­
.tacular bit of. playing oc­curred in the final seconds of the third quarter. It was a play that brought the spectators to their feet and · sent most of them home hoarse. Layden, ·after slipping, thre\v the ball 
. from an almost sitting po­sition to Crowley who sped 65 yards after re­ceiving the pass for a touchdo.wn. · The throw 
in itself was .remarkable and then Crowley's run was a sensation. The two ·combined gave the privileged 26,000 an insight of the capa­bility of the Roc}fmen under stress. . ' 
Rockne's proteges seem to· make it a· feature to offer· something new in the way of offensive playing in each game. · Yesterday's feature was forward passing, and as this phase of the game was originally introduced by Rockne him­self back in 1913 ·when a player for Notre Dame. It reached its highest· development yes­terday against Nebraska for three of the five touchdowns were due directly to overhead heaves. 
The Rockmen tried 10 forward passes, seven of which we}.·e successful, Nebraska tried seven aerial tosses, one of which was completed. 
.That just· about represents the difference be­tween. the two teams in every department. 
Page 40 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Notre Dame.  13  
Northwestern  (9  
Notre Dame, with but two games remaining on the schedule, journeyed to Chi-­cago for what was considered before the game an easy victory. A sloppy field and a Northwestern halfback named Baker caused the serenely confident Notre Dame team and student body the most interesting Saturday afternoon of the season. Thir­ty-five thousand people, the largest crowd ever to witness a football game in Chicago_. crowded the Grand Park Stadium for the game.  
The Northwestern team, playing at th~ peak of their season's form, gave a won­derful exhibition of football; however the Four Horsemen and the charging wall be­fore them were not to be denied the glories of the undefeated season so nearly with­in their grasp. Northwestern would have defeated most any team-in the country that afternoon but Rockne's wonderful organization could not have been. stopped by­_the 'Vrigley Building had the Chicagoans the power to throw that little construction in the way of Notre Dame's National Championship. Harry Stuhldreher per­formed brilliantly; -his passes were near-perfect and his handling of tl.1e ball was flawless. Harry demonstrated to Chicago the abilities which have made him practi­cally an una~imous All-American choice. The other Horsemen, though slowed up by the soggy field, ran gloriously.  
Among other reasons, the Northwestcrn game will be ever famous for the his­toric "crack" .made by Adam 'Valsh during the battle. Speaking to the line, com­posed of :Messrs. vVeibel, Kizer, Bach, Rip Miller, Hunsinger, and Collins, he said, "Come on you ·:Mules, the Horsemen are waiting."  i :.·  






• ~.... • ~ l f -:. '' -., -~ -.. # ­

-r.--. -___ _}___~-~--~.:-~~ --~~-----------'·--~­
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
"Notre Dame is Forced to the Limit" 
By JIMMY CoRCORAN. 


CHICAGO, Ill., Nov. 22.-Notre Dame, the Dempsey of footbal1, almost took the windward side of a royal Purple haymaker on its educated chin yesterday in the Grant Park Stadium. After a merry afternoon of mud slinging, toe to toe socking and bitter pastiming, the 'Ram­blers of Rockne were tickled to scoot off the field on the large end of a 13 to 6 score. 
Northwestern flashed more throughout the mill than any one .had ever accused them of possessing. And the Irish showed only inter­mittent touches of the moving game that has made them famous throughout the country. In 
other words, the Purple 
nearly battled this famous 
eleven to a standstill. Thistlethwaite's athletes regard the result as a vic­tory, and it must be stated that they showed enough for one. The line was mighty, battling the Notre Dame wall on even terms, while Baker and Weinecke, Purple backs, hammered the opposition and turned the e n d s for repeated gains. Mr. "Moon" Baker threatened for a time to act as presiding host at an .Irish wake. And if he had additional assistance from his mates he might have · staged such an event. .He was just about the whole show for Northwestern. · "Moon," who has a 99 44-100 per cent wallop, snapped into it bright and early by spinning a drop­


kick between ·the timbers. . This occurred early in the first quarter. Notre Dame· rooters merely. yawned and "ho-hum­med." But when "Moon" toed another through the bars shortly after Rockne rushed in the regulars, there was gnashing of teeth and shifting of seats ~s the cry for "the horsemen" went up. 
With the appearance of the regulars the tide turned Notre D~meward, and in the second quarter Stuhldreher shot across for a touch­down. Crowley's boot gave the Irish a point edge. This, it was thought, was only the be­ginning of another cross-country parade. As events proved, it was the only touchdown that the Ramblers earned during the afternoon. 
The "heads up" activity· of Elmer Layden brought Notre Dame the second and last touch­down in the fourth quarter. Layden, standing on the Purple 40-yard mark, stepped out to spear a stray Baker pass, and then shook his ten-second hoofs over the goal line. 
The horsemen made one mistake. They ·for­got to bring their boots from South Bend. In the heavy going, which was not suited to the Irish style of game, the-riders were lost. There were stretches of their noted dashing drives, but the finishing touch was usually missing. Rockne, who is a sportsman as well as a great coach, refused to attribute the sluggishness of Notre Dame to weather conditions. 
"Northwestern was great," King Knute said after the scuffle. No alibis. And the game exhibited by Northwestern surely doesn't de­serve the af~ermath of "reasons why." 
The elevens skidded out on the field before one of the most colorful crowds Chicago has 
ever seen at a sporting 
event. It 'VqS a happy lay­
out of 30,000, despite the fact that the boys and girls a r o u n d the colonnade needed spyglasses to fol­low the plays. ·when dusk dropped in toward closing time the ball was hardly discernible. 
Northwestern lost little time in impressing the Irish that it was set for battle. The Rockne cubs were un­able to puncture the· Pur­ple line nor were they able to halt the Thistlethwaite charges. Baker touched off the first bomb with his slanting drop kick from the 35-ym;d line. A few min­utes later his splendid ef­fort from the 38-yard line, near the sideline added to the Purple determination. From then on Northwest­ern went at it like a champion. 
The Rockne regulars, after testing the turf, turned to the·.air game, and it was a long toss, Stuhldreher .to Crow­ley, that aided in the first touchdown. This perfect execution placed the ban· on the Purple 9-yard line. From here the horsemen snorted to the 2-yard line and Harry Stuhldreher sifted through for a touchdown. · 
Northwestern broke loose in a manner that was unfair to organized labor in the second half, and before the turnout realized what it was all about, the Purple was moving down the field for big yardage. This charge died when Baker missed a drop kick. 
Notre Dame now snarling and desperate, set out to do business. End runs by Crowley and Mille!, an occasional sock· by Layden and a forward pass Stuhly to Miller, brought the ball to the Purple 25-yard mark but the Rocknes were left on the limb. 
Notre Dame started on another stretch of activity when a forward pass, took the· ball to the Purple 5-yard line. Here the famous backs of Rockne turned· loose all they had in a mighty effort, but the Nqrthwestern line held. 


I: 
! 
Page 42 1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 40 Carnegie Tech.. 19 
The season of 1924 will go down in the annals of football as one of upsets and surpnsmg-consequences. Until the Tech victory, Notre Dame was undefeated hut the football 'vorld feared for the outcome of Notre Dame's final game. However, the four Horsemen treated the 35,000 fans to such an exhibition of dazzling football that there remained no doubt as to which was the nations greatest football team. 
Rockne, following the custom of preceding games, sent in his shock team con­sisting of Crowe and Eaton, ends; l\Icl\Iullen and l\'lcl\'lanmo? tackles; Glueckcrt and. Hanousek, guards; l\Iaxwell at center; the backfield included Edward's, O'Boyle, Connell and Livergood. But the Rockmen were confronted with a team of tearing, smearing, fighting Tartans who refused to be subdued uritil Kristoff blocked a punt and raced thirty-five yards for a touchdown. At this point, Rock stood up and signalled to vValsh to lead his team on the field. Once the regulars got warmed up there was no doubt as to the outcome, though ~he battlers of Carne­gie Tech were by no means easily tamed. 
.Layden was unable to play because of an injury but Livergood and Cerney, al­ternating at fullback, played a game which will be long 'remembered. Don l\Hller went over for the first touch-down on a pass from his room-mate Stuhldreher; Cerney, who had replaced Livergood, was the next to counter, and the half ended with. the score tied at 13-13. ,­
In the second half the Tartan defc:J;Ise weakened and Livergood went over for two touch-downs; Crowley and Stuhldreheraddcd each another one to make the score tally unanimous in the backfield. Bcdc for Carnegie Tech, added a third touch-down against the Notre Dame "shock troops," who had relieved the regulars. 
In the Tech game, Notrc Dame successfully completed twelve consecutive passes, a new world's record. · 

1924 FOO'IBALL REVIEW Page 43 


"Notre Pame Gallops Over Carnegie Tech" 
By \VARREN W. BnowN., Chicago Herald and Examiner 

PITTSBURG, Pa., Nov. 29.-Three of the Four Horsemen Qf Notre Dame, Crowley, Stuhldreher and Miller, and a person named Livergood, who is not a Horseman, is consid­erably more thap. an exercise boy, cut loose in such mad fashion in the second half of today's tussle with Carnegie Tech, pass­ing, and running and banging the line, that they turned a ·13-13 tie, in which the. first half ended, into a 40 to 19 final score, which is at once the largest score that has been run up against the Rock_ne Ramblers this season, and the equal of the count Notre Dame amassed against Lombard in the first game of the year. 
There was glory enough 
again. They were still tied

for Carnegie Tech's light, 
when the _half .ended.

fast, alert players.. One 
H<lrr~

touchdown against t h e 
It might as well be set
Stu hldre he.r

powerful team of Rockne 
forth here and now that in 

was all they hoped for. 
this first period the breaks 

Three gave them almost as 
helped Tech. That blocked 

many thrills as a victory. 
kick of Edwards and the 

And of these three one was 
fumble of Cerney were 

scored against THE Notre 
both turned into scores. 

Dame team, and not against 
The Ramblers outrushed 

the "shock troops," Beede, 
Tech in the first half, and 
overwhelmingly outpassed

Tech fullback, g o i n g 
them, the Tech team try­

across the line unchallen­
ing but one pass, the only

ged, · after a fake pass, 
one, by the way, they tried

while all of King Rockne's 
all afternoon. It was in­

Horseman were chasing an 
complete. Notre D a m e

unidentified, red-shirted 
registered e 1e v e n first

Tech man over in another 
downs to three and com­

· corner of the park. 
pleted six out of nine

This play was so good passes in the first half.that Tech· yanked it out of 
"When the hostilities were

the bag again late in the 
resumed Cerney was miss­

fourth period, after Rock­
ing from the picture and

ne had recalled his regulars 
'-'J'l-\.h (q\" I"W9ie. 
Livergood was on the job.

· and "shock troops," and 
Te.c. ho 
His line smashing and ·

had a collection of third 
Stuhldreher's passing net-

string players on the field. 


It scored · again, Beede carrying the ball, while the young men of No-· tre Dame we;re · running ragged a Te_ch man who was carrying everything but the football. 
Tech's other score, and· their· first, came in the first period, when Kristoff blocked Edwards' punt, recovered it. at midfield, and. gallqped over the snow-covered field for a touchdown. Santa Claus himself is the orily snow traveler who could have brought more joy to the Tech rooters than this 50-yard scrambling.Kristoff. 
This touchdown saw· the end of the "shock trooos" for ·most ·of the afternoon, ·and it didn't take Notre ·Dame long to get themselves a cou­ple of touchdowns after the. Horsemen galloped on the field~ · Tech did mapage to hold them until the second quarter, but in this, the dead­ly accuracy of the pass, as exemplified by Harry Stuhldreher, even_tually stampeded Tech enough to permit Don Miller to get loose for a forty­yard canter for-a score.. ·Crowley kicked the goal, and · tlie .six~point ' 'margin ·Tech ·held through Kristoff's effort was gone. 
Tech kicked off to the Notre Dame 28-yard line and then, P?SS, pass, pass the boys were marching. Stuhldreher to Crowley, Stuhldre­her to Miller, line smashes by Cerney, off­tackle slants by Crowley and one final flop of Cerney's that nett~~ _three· yards and a touch­down. Notre Dame 13;·Tech, 6; hooray. 
Just when the Ramblers were about ready to don .their snowshoes and start .on another cross-country jaunt this Cerney person, who seems to specialize in fumbles, put on his act on his own 28-yard line and Harmon of Tech recovered. It was at this point that Tech. pulled their phony pass play and scored the 
counter that tied things up 
ted a touchdown in a hurry and Crowley kicked the goal. · Notre Dame took the ball on the next kickoff and paraded down the field, giving a demonstration of the manly art of forward passing and line bucking, with little or no resistance being offered their efforts. A final pass :across ·the goal lirie, 
· Sttihldreher to Crowley, gave the touchdown. "Sleepy" booted ~he goal, to·o. This was all tl~at happened in the third per­iod. Please note that Notre Dame· had the ball all the time. They still had it when. the final period began, and kept it until they scored a counle mo;re touclidowns. Livergood and Stuhl­dreher getting them, the final as a result of a quarterback sneak for a bout a yard. "Rockne Second" probably dropped that one in just be­cause it was about the only thing he hadn't pulled in. the course of the afternoon. 
Warren W. Brown Answers a Question: "What sort of rating does Notre ·Dame get if you pay attention to camparative scores? l)oes it establish the team's claim to a nation­al championship or doesn't it?" It does, brother, it does. 


1924 F007"BALL REVIEW Page45 

The Four Horsemen of Notre Darne 

POLO GROUNDS, New York, October 18.-0utlined against a blue gray Octo­

ber sky the Four Horsemen rode again. 
In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruct_ion and Death. 

These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and 
Layden. . -GRANTLAND RICE, (New York Times). 
Isn't this Notre Dame backfield the greatest ever played?" · 
It is the greatest \ve have ever seen when speed, power, team play, rhythm, grace, dash and general ability are all to be considered. There has never been a faster backfield. There has never been one with as much beauj;y of rhythm. 
They have been in only two defeats in three· years, both from the same team. After to­day they fade from the scene, but no one who saw them play this fall will forget the picture. There have been greater individual backs, but we have never seen four upon one team who had as much class. -GRANTLAND RICE 
October 25 in the Palmer Stadium, Princeton was defeated 12-0 by a great eleven from Notre Dame. The same quartet of splendid backs who ran wild last year again· proved their title to fame as one of the most marvelous backfields of all time. Without any question, think, this quartet is collectively the fastest backfield I have ever seen. In my judgment the slowest member of it can run a hundred in ten-two. · But they have not only speed, they have intuitive genius in eluding· tackles; moreover, genius fortified and improved by carefully pol­ished coaching to obtain the last inch out of every effort to advance the ball. Crowley is the finest back, bali-in-hand, who has. appeared on an eastern gridiron since Mahan. He does not attempt to do all the things Mahan did, but at runing with the ball he is every bit as good as Mahan. On the showing of Saturday he is as gJod .defensively ~s on the offense. Indeed, the great. defensive power of this whole backfield -was a distinct surprise to me. 
DONALD GRANT HERRING, (The Princeton-Alumni "\Veekly.) 

Page 46 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Football Trophy of America Avvarded to Notre Dame 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Football trophy, symbolic of the National Football Championship of America, is donated by the Veteran Athletes of Philadelphia, upon such jrears when the preeminence of any football team is so beyond dispute as to en­title it to national recognition. The cup is awarded only in those years wl1en the Board of Directors of the Association by an unanimous vote of its membership, designates such a recipient. 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Trophy for 1924 has been awarded to Notre Dame. 
Some of the Directors of the Association who awarded the cup to Notre Dame are: 
HENNRY PENN BunKE Five times Commodore of the Scht)ylkill Navy, the greatest row­ing association in this country. 
En1f_EST CouzENS All-American Center and Captain of the University of Pennsylvania 
1905 te~m. Graduate ~Ian.ager U. of P. ·Athletics. 
SAl\lUEL J. DALLAS President Meadowbrook C I u b , Philadelphia, Vice-President. Penn 
A. C., and President Atlantic Di­. visi~n, A. A._ U. for. ten years. 
"\VILLIAM G. FmEDGEN 
Philadelphia Turngemein~e Olym:.. pic Foils, Sabre and Broadsword Champion, 1900. 
PAuL "\V.~ GmBoNs Vice-Prcsi_~ent, Penn A. C., and na­tional Tennis authority. 
CHARLES c. HILDEBRAND 
·Four letter man Pennsylvania State· College and tackle on the 1890-1-2 teams; 
Dn. GEoRGE "\V. ORTON, Director of Pennsylvania Relay Races, and holder of seventeen American or Na~ional and Olympic Championships at the mile, 1500 meters and three mile distances. 
"\VILLIAM H. RocAP National authority on sport, Chair­man Pennsylvania State Boxing 
Commission~ 
WILLIAM \V. RoPER Ex-Captain-Coach Princeton Uni­versity football team. 
DR. J. K. SHELL Fullback, University of Pennsyl­vania, 1884, Coach at Pennsylvania,. Swarthmore and Illinois. 
RALPH. B. STRASSBURGER United States Naval Academy, whose ninety yard run defeated the Army some fifteen years ago. 
ALLEN E. (Mum) WHITING Captain and halfback, CornelL 
HERMAN F. WoLFE World's Amateur 135-45 \Vrestling Champion, 1893-98. 
The Hon. Eugene C. Bonniwell who is a judge of the ~Iunicipal Court of Phil­
.adelphia, ina letter to the editors of .the REVIEW, writes, "Sorry we cannot sent you a photograpl~ of the cup,but you can rest assured it will be one commensurate with the team of Our Lady." 
1924 FOO?:BALL.REVIEW 
:Rrickne Makes R¢ady to. Invade East Next Saturday·· 



. ~ 
Page 48 1924 F007'BALL REVIEW 
"What Sort of a Team is Notre Dame?" 
B.lf 'VARREN ,V. BrrowN. 
Sporting Editor, Chicago !Jerald and E.vaminer.* 

"\Vhat sort of a team is Notre Dame?"· seems to be the problem that is worrying all the natives of this couptry who haven't been able to get a peek at the boys in action. So marked has been the success of the team, in all kinds of going, ·and. against all sorts of competion, many who haven't seen the team, have ascribed to it all kinds of powers, magical and otherwise. It has reached a point where one who. has seen the Rockne Ramblers, can tell one who has not, almost any sort of a yarn about the team's accomplishments, and make him believe it. That, I believe, is one of the answers to "What sort of a team is Notre Dame?" 
From views take_n from a perch on the top of the stand, generally allotted to the workers of the press, at football struggles, and from various observations made at odd moments during practice sessions, the only decision I can come to about "What sort of a team is Notre Dame?" is that it is a team, first, and eleven healthy, husky, capable yo.ung players after:wards. · That, I am sure, is as much responsible for the success· of the combination, as anything else. 
Coach Rockne, or his players.: or both, have managed to realize a sort of p1~actical applica­tion of the "One for all, and all for one," principle. I have, at a practice tilt, heard· the coach "call" one of his more famous players, with the same thoroughness, and the same~· I am happy to write, good effect as was noticeable when he took to task one of the boys who hadn't eyen reached a point where he was considered a member of the "shock troops." That's team spirit. That's what wins games. That's "what sort of a team is Notre Dame." . 
I'll grant that the backfield gathered together this season is a perfect a quartet as it has ever been my good fortune to watch. But it is equally true that one can go from one end of the line to the other, and if not always naming a star, as football. stars go, nevertheless be able to pick a player who knew his job, and knew, its relation to what his neighbor was trying to do. There may have been players on. the Notre Dame team who were not entitled to "All:· American" rating, but none can say that there were players on the team who we!en't the best possible units for the makeup of a team that comes as close to perfection as one will ever see. ­
This is not meant for a. hurrahing of Notre Dame, just for the sake of cutting loose :with a long cheer. 
It is more or iess hard facts. Study the record that Notre Dame's football team has made in the various parts of· the country to which its travels ·have called it, and you'll concede that no•..; but a perfect team could survive. · . 
. . 

It has been said that no team can keep "pointed" Saturday after Saturday;that each team must have its good·days and its bad; and that on the bad, the so-called "upsets" are certain. Notre Dame's bad days came along in the season just closed. But .Notre Dame was coached, and understood its coaching in such a manner that it was able to resist the "upset," that bad days generally. bripg. 
I haven't a doubt but that Notre Danie will succeed in doing what no team from this side of the Rockies has ever done before-play its game at Pasaden~. This is the one game that Notre Dame and Rockne must win, and it is hard to conceive of Capt. Walsh, the four. Gallop­ing Goal ~rossers, Stuhldreher, Crowley, Miller and Layden, faltering when the word comes that the game. must be won.. If there is any doubt on this subject, you are referred, respectfully, to Army, .Princeton, Nebraska, Georgia Tech, Northwestern, Wisconsin, etc., etc., the milestones .-or should one say headstones?-along the path of Notre Dame to the ~ndisputed championship of the United States, the first team in memory, ever to attain such a destination. 
*Written upon the occasion of Warren W. Brown's visit to Notre Dame 'to speak at the alumni ovation to the var­
sity held December 13. . . . · 

,:==c:rr==s • .. .,._ ' ..... .#' 7.-. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 4 


THE HORSEMEN IN ACTION 
(Above) Crowley carrying; the ball; (Below) Don Miller running;; Layden on the ground. 

Page 50 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The "Kick" in Notre Dame 

By CHARLES PHILLIPS, l\L A. Lecturer in English Literature; Author of uThe New Poland,, "The Teachers' Year,, "The Divine Friend", etc. Ev-erything that comes out of that blessed old campus has a Ieick: to it!-FnANI\. 'VALLACE, '23, Associated Press. Ten million people went to football games .this year-to the big games. This is not counting at all the million or two~ easily that, who witnessed scholastic contests of various grades.· Ten million-and it's a safe bet that 9,999,999 of these, some time or other, talked with a thrill in their voices and a pull at their hearts-admiration, exultation, fear, wonder-of Rockne, of the Four Horsemen, of Captain Adam, of brilliant scientific plays and knockout scores of No­trc Dame. There's a kick in that name today. Notre Dame! 'Vhat doesn't it mean! · The deft sharp interference that baffles, surprises,. blocks; the arrow-like· drive of young swift bodies catapulting through the line; the streaking end-run that jerks your heart into· your throat and chokes it there; the trim sure leg that swings· the unerring foot; the plump of the pigskin as it sails into the blue for punt or goal; the team, the score, the victory ..· . what does .it all mean, anyway? · · It means this for sure-stout hearts, clear eyes, quick wits, trained muscles, .clean limbed vigor, verve and go. There's a kick in all of that. But it means more. It means men; it means character. That's where the real kick comes in. If we pause and think for Just one moment of what has gone into the making of this glory of ours, this undisputed glory and this giving of healthy invigorating pleasures ... to tens of thousands of what sacrifices of' time and strength, what submissions to routine ana discipline, what practice in self-control,-what patience and determination and persistence; what hours on hours of grilling work doing a thing over and over and over again, and once more over and over, to make it perfect;-if 1vc think of this for one minute, then we will know where the kick lies in the magic words "Notre Dame." "Notre Dame." That name is a symbol today the whole sport world over, and far beyond the boundaries of the sport world-a symbol of mor~ than speed and endurance and gridiron science. "'\Vith forty-five of the forty-eight states of the Union represented on our campus, Notre Dame has become a sort of America in miniature. Not a mere section of the nation, but the whole nation, its youth, its young blood, its ideals and. aspirations, are focused on the old quadrangle where the Bronze Christ holds out His. hands in benedict~on and the Golden :Madonna looks down· protectingly with maternal love. And on the quadrangle the eyes of the entire country-at any· rate, of ten millions of our citizens-have been set during the past year with wonder and admiration and a very deep respect, visioning in the mime of Notre Dame something greater even than the title of a great University-visioning in the words "Notre Dame" a symbol of American manhood. That's where the kick comes in-in the realization that our country still produces brain and brawn of the sound old stock that keeps the ·world moving and makes· it, after all, a joyous and interesting place to live in; the stock that can play a game and win and keep. its head, and still-believe in God with a man's· strong untainted faith-the stock that prays to Heaven for its victories, knowing that no worthy act is un­. worthy the eye of God; the stock that thanks Our Lady for its triumphs and by its every· deed -and word invokes and honors Jeanne d' Arc of the spotless armour, :Michael of the invincible sword, the whole bright company of God's Saints; the stock that can offer even its defeats to Christ as a sacrifice on the altar of faith. _There's a kick in Notre Dame; not alone in Notre·Dame football, but in every effort, every endeavor, every activity that its men undertake. It is a training camp for more than .famous backfields, mighty captains, invinciable Horsemen. It is a training camp for men, for Ameri­can citizenship, for Christian manhood. That's where the kick is-in the knowledge· that America's acclaimed champions of the gridiron are the representatives of an ideal that works, and will work for all time to come, like a strong leaven in our national .soul-the ideal of manliness, sp~rtmanship, chivalry, of friendly rivalry and inspiring competition, based on the solid foundation of Christian living. "He's a Notre Dame man"-there's a password for any man, anywhere. There's a kick in the very words. They mean "something doing"-and something done. l\Iore and mor.e the world beyond our campus realizes this, because more and more the Notre Dame man himself realizes it and lives tip to it. 
Everything that comes out of that blessed old campus has a Icicle to it! 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 51 
Student ManaQers Cheer Leaders 


Rockne and· the team had an ·"ace" in the hole this year in the person of Leo H. Sutliffe, Student l\Ianager. Rockne was the great director and "Sut" was his stage · manager, his man behind the scenes. The job was one that required a great deal of initiative,· atten­tion to detail,· and much patience. On the long jaunts away from home it was up to 1 • :i Sutliffe to route the team, to LEO SUTLIFFE write in for hotel reservations, 
Student Manager to pack and check equipment, to arrange meals and to supply taxis and other incidentals necessary for the comfort and wel­fare of the team. Sutliffe deserves much cred­it for the way in which he handled the team on their five trips to foreign fields. 
At home Sutliffe had even more to do. But here he had a· corps of able assistants-men from the Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes, who, under the competitive Student Athletic l\Ianagers system, are eligible for full inanagerships their senior year. Under Sut­liffe's efficient organization and supervision these men did their work well, and, conse­quently, made the competition keener than ever for future managerial positions. This is as it should be for the work these men do re­lieves the coach of unnecessary worries, and permits him to give his undivided attention to the team. 
At home the student managers sell and take 
.in tickets at the gates, take complete charge of seating at the games, take care of tlie score­board, distribute tickets in . hotels ·and cigar stands, have advertising posters printed and distributed, and take care of visiting teams and officials. ·Sutliffe's Junior assistants in this work were Bill Reid, Ed Fallon, Andy Sleigh, Charles :1\'Iooney, L. C. Hegele, John Ryan, and Jack Adams. The Sophomore 1\Ianager­ial candidates include 'Villiam Kavanaugh, ·James Jones, James Coleman, )Villiam· O'Keefe, G. O'Brien, and J. Fiske. The Freshman managers .are A. 1\I. Grams, E. F. Bou!ke, J. P. Courts, B. J. Stettler, B. E. Zip­pere.r, lV. F. Duffy, J. D. Igoe, P. J. O'Con­nor, R. A. 'Veppner, D. Butler, G. Sargus,-L. '\Vingerter, T. Hopper and P. J. :McNamara. 

· Rockne had two All­American generals this 
year-Stuhldreher on the 
field, and Eddie Luther 
on the sidelines as cheer­
'leader par excellence. 
Early in the year Eddie 
got the gang together, 
and with his pounding, 
r~--.. ......-· smashing spirit worked 
up enthusiasm to· fever 
heat. 'Vith a year of ex­
. I 
. ..·;_-J'·:~ perience behind hiin, Ed:.. 
; ·_.......... -· __ 
' die worked like a trojan, 
. 
~ and he is now hailed as 
EDDIE LUTHER 
"AI". Slaggert the sec­
Head Cheer· Leader 
ond, the peer of Notre Dame's cheer leaders. The rousing demon­strations given upon the occasions o{ the Geor­gia Tech and the Nebraska pep meetings are sufficient evidence of Eddie's ability. Among other things, Eddie introduced several new yells, whipped the Freshmen recruits into shape, trained his assistants, and then went to the Army game and made the alumni yell themselves permanently hoarse. He then led five hundred "Fighting Irish" to Madison and it is said that the echoes still linger in Camp Randall Stadium. 
The assistant cheer leaders, Abbrott, Sweeney, and 1\Ioylan, assisted Eddie in great style. The staff was handicapped, however, because of the lack of a properly concentrated cheering section in the stands. 

The '23 Varsity . 


.Officers 
KNUTE K. Rocu:NE ------------------------------Ifead Coach GEoRGE KEOGAN ----------------------------Assistant Coach HARVEY BROWN ------------------------------------------Captain 
CoLLINS CRoWE l\fAYL MuRPHY HuNsiNGER 
LAMONT ARNDT 
FARRELL RoAcH 
CouGp~IN 
:McGEE 
ADAl\I 'VALSH JAMES SwiFT 
N OPPENDERGER BACH 
. EDGAR :MILLER OBERST BRoWN vVEIDEL 
NEWl\IAN . GLUECKERT 
J. MILLER MAGEVNEY GLYNN l\fcGRATH 
------------------------------------Captain-elect ------------------------------Student Manager 
Personnel 
VERGARA KIZER REAGON WALSH REESE STUHLDREHER 
The Reserves 
BARRY 
EATON 
HARRINGTON 
HARMON 
CooKE CRoWLEY DoN l\liLLER BERGMAN CoNNELL l\LuiER HousER 
l\hLDAUER 
Roux 
RIGALI 
E,GGERT 
l\fcl\fULLEN FRISKE 
. CERNEY ENRIGHT LAYDEN STANGE LIVERGOOD 
FINCH WALLACE LAFOLI.ETTE RIGNEY 
SuLLIVAN l\IAcNAn 
...=·::;;;:;;;;~~­

!I: ,.::;:::;-·~~====-====--=--------~-:::-:--·-~-----_:------:----:---_-~_:-__ __ ___-_--::-__.--:-__-_-__-_---~-------~---_-______.,.._-----~-~-_-_____ __:_---_-__-::.____---_-__-_;_-.~-~--~~-:.c->.--._~,.,---------· 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 58 
Freshrnan Football 
The hope· arid the ambition of ev_ery prospective football player· entering college is to make-the freshman team. A place with the first year regulars gives the aspirant to gridiron. glories an edge on the man who waits till his second year to try out for the varsity. 
In a conversation between several varsity football stars a few years ago, the freshmen were fondly referred to as the "Goats". The yearling squad faces the ·task each year of giving ·impromptu demonstrations of· the plays of opponents, scheduled for the varsity on the next Saturday. The varsity perfects a defense against the first year men, using the opposition's formations. 
Each year the freshmen squad at Notre Dame plays an important partin shaping the varsity into a winning aggregation. The yearlings toil each night against their heavier and more experienced opponents and at-the end of the season they go into oblivion, unhonored-and unsung; forgotten everywhere but in the mind of the varsity coach who is looking forward. to material for next year. 
The freshman team of 1924 played a -gallant role in preparing Rockne's Fighting Irish for _a season of no defeats and the subsequent national _title. Coach George Keogan and his assistant, George Vergara, garnered a fighting freshman team out of more than a hundred candidates who answered the first call last September. What Rockne said about the varsity team can be applied to the freshman also, "We had a fairly good season." · 
The 1924 freshman team was composed of many good men who showedpromise of being vah.iable additions to future varsity teams, by causing this year's varsity no small ·amount of trouble in the many scrimmage practices. Three months of playing on the first year team within earshot of the lessons being taught in the famous Rockne school, has served to accustom the frosh to the Notre Dame system of football and although they had little .opportunity. to develop as a team \vith organization and a permanent attack because of the numerous changes to different systems· to accomo­date the various formations of the opponents, the squad as a whole gave every promise of being an invaluable asset to Rockne when he starts his 1925 campaign. 
·The yearlings .won two games in three starts, defeating Western State Normal, 15 to 7, and La Fountaine 31 to 0, and losing to Lake Forest, 9 to 0 after a stubborn battle against the terrific drive of the' Academy backfield. 
. Little can be said of the individual work of the men since they never had a fair chance to show under normal conditions. McCleary and Parisien divided the work at the pilot berth while Bushman, Walsh, Quinn and Fenney performed most of the time at the halves. F. Collins and Hanely carried the fullback burden. In the line were Captain Boeringer .and Fredricks at the center; Pliska, Loeppig, Smith and O'Toole at the guards; Norman, Graf, Cavanaugh and McAdams at the tackles; Krembs, Byrne, Heffernan and Shevigny at the ends. 

,­
. ---·· -_:. ·--·-·· ·_ ---. 

Page 54 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

All-American and All-Western Teams of 1924 
Walter Ecke~sall' s All-American Elevens 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Luman, Yale .......................... Lawson, Leland Stanford.... Wakefield, Vanderbilt 
L. T ......... \Vier, Nebraska ...................... McGinley, Pennslyvania ......Van Dyne, Missouri 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago .................. Garbisch, Army .................... Diehl, Dartmouth C ............... H_ornell, California ................. Walsh, Notre Dame ............ Lovejoy, Yale 
R. G ......... Farwick, Army ......................Abramson, Minnesota ..........Parson, Northwestern 
R. T ......... Beattie, Princeton .................. Gowdy, Chicago .................. N. Anderson, So. Cal. 
R. E ......... Bjorkman, Dartmouth ..........Mahaney, Holy Cross ...........Otte, Iowa 
Q. B ......... Stuhldreher, Notre Damc...... Dooley, Dartmouth ........-....Parkin, Iowa (Captain) (Captain) .(Captain) 
L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Baker, Northwestern ..........Bahr, Purdue 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............_~tockton, Gonzaga ..............Pond, Yale 
F. B. ........ Layden, Notre Dame .............. McBride, Syracuse .............. vyycoff, Georgia Tech 
Eckersall's ·All-Western Elevens 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD .TEAM 

L. E......~ ..Lingenfelter, Drake .............. Dilwig, Marquette ................ Seidel, Northwestern 
L. T ......... Wier, Nebraska ..~ ................... Cox, Minnesota ....................Henderson, Chicago . 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago ..................Parsons, N. U ....................... Bieberstein, Wisconsin C ............... Walsh, Notre Dame .............. Claypool, Purdue .................. Lowry, Northwestern 
R. G ......... Abramson, Minnesota ...........Steele, Michigan ..................Hubka, Nebraska 
R. T ......... Gowdy, Chicago ...................... Bach, Notre Dame ................Van Dyne, Missouri ·R. E ......... Otte, Iowa ..............................Cunningham, Ohio State...... Collins, Notre Dame 
Q. B ......... Stuhldreher, Notre Dame........Parkin, Iowa ........................Orebaugh, Drake (Captain) (Captain) (Captain) 
L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Baker, Northwestern ······"···N. Behm, Ames 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............Bahr, Purdue ··········-·~····-----··Rhodes, Nebraska 
F. B ......... Layden, Notre Dame ..............Thomas, Chicago .................. Levi, Haskell · 
Jones-Rockne-Warner All-American . T ea~s 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Lawson, Stanf01'd ......:.............. Wakefield, Vanderbilt ..........Stout, Princeton 
L. G ......... McGinley, Penn .............. : ....... N. Anderson, Sou. Calif.......Karney, Cornell 
L. T ......... Farwick, Army ........................ Bellman, Washington ..........Abramson, Minnesota C ............... Lovejoy, Yale ........................ Horrell, California ................ Walsh, Notre Dame 
R. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago .................. Garbisch, Army .................... Diehle, ·Dartmouth 
R. T ......... Weir, Nebraska ......................Beattie, .Princeton ................Van Dyne, Missouri 
R. E ........Luman, Yale ..........................Bjorkman, Dartmouth ..........Cunningham, Ohio 
Q. B. ........ Stuhldreher, Notre Dame ...... Dooley, Dartmouth ..............Parkin, Iowa 

L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ...................... Koppisch, Cloumbia ............Baker, Northweste!·n 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............ Pond, Yale, .~.-~ .......................Jones,· Florida · 
F. B ......... Layden, Notre Dame .............. McBride, Syracuse ..............Scott, Yale 
'. i 
Notre Dame uScholastic" ·All-American T earns Picked by the Notre Dame Student Body-t:· FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Wakefield, Vanderbilt : ........... Bullman, West Virginia ...... Collins, Notre Dam2 
L. T ......... Wier, Nebraska ......................~ach, Notre Dame .............. Gowdy, Chicago · 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago ..................Farwick, Army .................... Abramson, Minnesota· C.: ............. Walsh, Notre Dame ..............Horrell, California.. : .............. Lovejoy, Yale 
R. G ......... Garbisch, Army ..................... Deihl, Darthmouth ··~···········Eckstein, Brown 
R. T: ........ l\!_cGinley, Penn. . ................... Anderson, U. S. C. . ............. Beattie, Princeton 
R. E ......... Luman, Yale .......................... Lawson, Stanford ................Bjorkman, Dartmouth 
Q. B. ........ Stuhldreher, Notre Dame ......Pease, Columbia .............~ .... Dooley, Dartmouth 
L. H........Crowley, Notre Dame ............Baker, Northwestern ..........Pond, Yale 
R. H ......... Grange, Illinois ...................... !{oppisch, Columbia ............ Miller, Notre Dame 
F. B. .......Layden, Notre Dame.............. Hazel, Rutgers ......................Benkert, Rugers 
*These All-American elevens are the result of five hundred ballots east by members of the Notre Dame Student Body. The players were given points for first, second or third place selections and the three receiving the high­er number of points were given places on the first, second or third teams. A special effort was made to have im­partial selections made. 
It is understood of· course, that to the Notre. Dame student, the perfect All-American team is that which Coach Rockne used this fall to make glorious Notre Dame football history. 

Teasing the Tiger 


• 


i'. ·'_ 
j/,/ 
~-, 
,.. 
!:.:··· 
,··.-.. 
t. ­

·I~ 

Page 56 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

The 1923 Season 
The Records 
Septe1nber 29______N otre Daine____ 74; l{almnazoo ______ 0 October 6______________N otre Daine____ 14; Lmnbard --------0 October 13____________N otre Dame____ 13;. Ariny --------------0 October 20____________N otre Daine.... 25; Princeton ______ 2 October 27____________N otre Daine____ 35; Georgia Tech.. 7 ·N ove1nber 3 .......... N otre Dame....34; Purdue ----------~-7 N oven1ber 10________Notre Dame____ 7; N ebra_ska ________ 14 
N ove1nber 17________Notre Dame....34; Butler ------------7 
N ove1nber 24_________N otre Dame____ 26; Carnegie Tech 0 
N ove1nber 29________N otre Daine....13; St. Louis --------0 
/ 
The Total N u1nber of Points Scored: Notre Dame 275 ; Opponents 37. 
.! 

,"'•' .,.•'-... ~ • ' • -, , f • ~ 1 -~ -\~' c";-,.. ::_ • • r, ~. ~, .: ,..f"'.... ~ • t 

!-·-·--~.:.. ~-~-·----' 
. . 
. 

·~\. 
·-} .. 
1924 FOO'IBALL REVIEW Page 57 
1924 Football Verse 

'-· 
'1'1-IE I-IORSEniEN'S RIDE 
On gridiron fields of football fame, Ride the four great horsemen of Notre 
Dame, From Princeton East· to Nebraslca T¥est, They ha_ve charged through the lines of the 
countries best, "They shall not pass" the Army cried, But nothing could stop the horsemen's rid.e, .On to victor.lf and immortal fame, Still ride· the four great horsemen of Ifotre 
Dame. 
-PITTSBURGH GAZETTE TIMES. 

"TtHE FOUR HORSEJI!IEN" And ever they rode and ever tlzey •won, That trinity led by a fourth. In the East, through the 1Vest and the South, And right through t.hf!. walls of the North. 
For nothing coitld .stop them nor hold Those horsemen that traveled .lilce flame; They rode with· the footfalls of fat~ · And the ans·wer was always· the same. · 
I dealic quartet of all time . The song that you sang was complete, It was 'round 'em mid through 'em and past To the time of your merciless feet. 
Great riders who've never been thrown, You're leaving us; deep is regret. TVith som.e will your memory fade, But the ridden •will never forget! 
-HARCOURT STRANGE. 

"THE LAST RIDE TOGETHER" 
CrO'tole.lf and Layden, side b,1J side., niiller and. Stuhldreher in their stride., After to-da.1J will no more ride­And so their curtain falls to-night. 
-GRANTLAND RICE. 
THE IRISH LINE The poets who sang the great battle of old And apportioned the laurels due To the victors., full often left untold The 11raises of heroes true. To commander or chief in each higher grade · TVere allotted the honors won; But rarely were fitting tributes 11aid To the man behind the gun. 
So, too, in the mimic. battles fought And ·won on the autumn field., Not seldom brave Forwards seem half-forgot, Their derring-do half-concealed. Y et".many a headliner's 11lace in the sun Is due to their fierce attaclcs; For, lilce to the man behind the gun, Are the lads befl!re the Baclcs. 
So, a songfor TValsh and his Line that starred The st;enuous sea~on through, A cheer for each taclcle .and end and guard TVho fought for the Gold and Blue! Here's to Kizer and 1Veibel., to Hunsinger, "Rip," . To Collins and.Bach, in fine! ·Now, all together., a big "Hip~ I-Iip., Hzirrah!" for the 1ris1t Line. 
-ARTHUR BARRY•. 
THE PASSING SHOTV Ther.e will be stars ·who are still paradin" Out in front with the flare of fame., But Stuhldreher, Miller., Croroley and Layden Are playing their final game. 
Soon they rise and as soon are fadin", Others roill come from the laureled glen; But I •want to see nfiller and Crowle.lf and 
Layden Taldng that ball again. 
-GRANTLAND RICE. 



The 1922. Season 
GLENN CARBERRY· Captain. 
The Records 
Septe1nber 30 ______Notre Dame... .46; Kalan1azoo 0 October 7 ______________Notre D.ame .... 26; "St. Louis U ..~--0 October 14 __________Notre Dame.... 20; Purdue ----------0 October 21 __________Notre Dame.... 34; DePau'v ~-------7 October 28 __________Notre.·Dame....13; Georgia Tech 3 November 4__________N otre Dame.... 27; Indiana ·----------0 N oveniber 1L-----~-N otre Dame____ 0; Army ---~------·----0 November 18________N otre Dame....31; Butler ------------3 November 25________N otre Dame.....19; Carnegie Tech 0 November 30________N otre Dame____ 6; Nebraska ________14 
/ 
Total Number of Points Scored: Notre Da1ne, 222; Opponents, 27. 
_:... ---~~-··-·.:.._ __..;.._ .. ·.-.. ------~··-·--­
192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 59 
The '22 Varsity 


CARBERRY 1\icNULTY COLLINS 1VfAYL VERGARA CROWLEY' Co.NNELL 
LoGAN GENE l\fuRPHY FLYNN HuNSINGER 
Officers 
KNUTE K. Roci{NE ----------------------------Head Coach RoGER KILEY --------------------------------Assistant Coach ·GLENN CARBERRY ············--------------·······.····-Captain 
HARVEY. BROWN •...•.••....................•.•• Captain-elect En\vARD LENNON ••.•••.............•.... Student Manager 
Personnel 
LmB BRoWN OBERST DEGREE En :MILLER ·KIZER STANGE FLINN 
CoTToN 'VEinEL :MAHER DoN :MILLER CERNEY LIVERGOOD 
The Reserves 
Roux CooK GRIFFIN JERRY l\fILLER CouGHLIN Voss· :MIXSON REESE :MILBAUER HARl\ION REGAN .,VALSH 
STUHLDREHER 
THOMAS 
LAYDEN 
BERGMAN 
CASTNER 
FELTES ENRIGHT KANE Til\1 l\fURPHY 
r~ ..-­

f<~~l.f~~:;:.:.:.:.C.::.: ~--:.-:;_~~~:"::.~~~:==·.:· 
':""':.. ' 
.\.~,/ .. :I 
1-'lii 
·Page 60 . 1924 FOOTBALL REVJEW 
Great Write_~ Ups of 1924 

GRANTLAND RICE 
(New Yorl~ Tim-es.) 
POLO GROUNDS, New York, October 18, 
1924.-0utlined against a blue, g~ay October. 
sky the Four Horsemen rode agam. 
In dramatic lore they are known as fam­
ine pestilence, destruction and death. These 
are' only aliases. Their real names are: 
Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. 
They formed the crest of the South Bend 
cyclone before which another fighting Army 
team was swept over the precipice at the Polo 
Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 spectators 
peered down upon the bewildering panorama 
spread out upon the green plain below. 
A cyclone can't be snared. It may be sur­rounded but s.omewhere it breaks through to keep on going. When the cyclone starts from South Bend where the candle lights still gleam through the Indiana sycamores those in the way must take to the storm cellars at top speed. The cyclone struck again as Notre ·Dame beat the Army 13 to 7 with a set of backfield stars that ripped and rushed through a strong Army defense with more speed and 
power than the walTing Cade.ts could meet. 
Notre Dame won its eighth game in eleven 
starts through the driving power of one of the 
greatest backfields that ever churned up the 
turf of any gridiron in any football ag.e. 
Brilliant backfields may come and go but m 
Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, 
covered by a fast and charging line, Notre 
Dame can take its place in front of the field. 
Coach McEwan sent one of his finest teams 
into action, an· aggressive organization that 
fought to the last play around the first rim of 
darkness, but when Rockne rushed his four 
horsemen to the track they rode down every­
thing in sight. . 
It was in that 1400 gray clad cadets 
pleaded for the ·Army line to hold. The Army 
line was giving all it had but when a tank 
tears in with the speed of a motorcycle, what 
chance had flesh and blood to hold? The Army 
had its share of stars in action, such stars 
as Garbisch, Farwick, Wilson, Wood, Elinger 
and many others, but they were up against 
four whirlwind backs who picked up top 
speed from the first . step as they swept 
through scant openings to slip on by the sec­
ondary defense. The Army had great backs 
in Wilson and Wood, but the Army had no 
such quartet who seemed to carry the mixed 'blood of the tiger and the antelope. 
Rockne's light .and tottering line was just 
about as· tottering as the Rock of Gibraltar. 
It was something more than a match for the 
Army's great se.t of forwards who had earned 
their fame before, yet it was not until the 
second period that the first big thrill of the 
afternoon set the great crowd into a cheer­
ing whirl. and brought about the 'vild flutter 
of flags that are thrown to the· wind in ex­
citing moments. At the game's start, Rockne 
sent in almost entirely the second string cast. 
The Army got the jump and began to play most of the football. It was the Army at­tack that made three first downs before No­tre Dame had caught its stride. 
The South Bend cyclone .opened like a zephyr and then, in the wake of a sudden cheer, out r.ushed Stuhldreher, Miller, Crow­ley and LaydenJ the four star backs :vho helped best the Army a year ago. Thmgs were to be a trifle different now. . After a short opening flurry in the second period the cloud in the west at this point was no larger than a football. There was no sign of a tor­nado starting, but it happened to be at just this spot that Stuhldreher decided to put on his attack and begin the long and dusky hike. 
On the .first play the fleet Crowley peeled off 15 yards and the cloud from the west was now beginning to show signs· of lightning a~d thunder. The fleet, powerful Layden got six yards more and then Don Miller added 10. A forward pass from Stuhldreher to Crowl~y 'added 12 yards and a moment later Don Mil­ler -ran 20 yards around the Army's right wing. He was on his way to glory when Wilson, hurtling across the .right of way, nailed him on the_10 yard line and threw him out of bounds. · 
Crowley, Miller and Layden-Miller, Lay­den and Crowley-one or the other, ripping and crashing through as the Army defense threw everything it _had in the way to stop this wild charge that had no\y come 70 yards. Crowley and L~yden added five yards more and then'on a split play Layden went 10 yards across the line as if he had just been fired from the black mouth of a Howitzer. 
Speed Beat West Point. 

It was speed that beat the Army, speed plus interference. And when a back such as Harry Wilson finds few chances to get started you figure upon the defensive strength that is barricading the road. Wilson is one of 'the hardest backs in the game to suppress, but he found few chances yesterday to show his broken field ability. You can't run through. a broken field until you get there. / 
One strong feature of the Army play was its head long battle against heavy odds. Even when Notre Dame had scored two touch­downs and was well on its way to a third, the army fought on with fine spirit, until the touchdown chance came at last, and when this chance came in the fourth quarter coach Mc­Ewan had the play ready for the final march across the line. • 
The Army has a better team than it had last year. so· has Notre Dame. We doubt that any team in the country could have beaten Rockne's yesterday afternoon, east or west. It was a great football team billiantly directed, a team of speed, power and team play. The Army has no cause for gloom over its showing. It played first . class football against more speed than it could match. 
Those who have tackled a cyclone can un­derstand. 
·'·\: 

... : . . . ~' ·. . , ·. . ·..· ·. . :..\ • . .· . . . . . ' . . . . . . i . . . , ... ' '; ~; .·,~..............~.."-~'-§' ·;;:;;..:!./ ·. 
~ '..'' •. 'A~J"" .... .,., :4 ' ",".._. • • "r ';..',... ~., • • ~-~""l' < .. .:-,~-..·•~,....-~.l/'',>. ! H"~~ \!__,.,. '•r",~ "'~"~"' • ""',., ·~"; '/'"'~·':'"."' ~· t"' ~ ,' ~_.. '', •"':"• ~· • ·~
t ,_-.-Jf ,-• <r 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 61 


GEORGE TREVOR 

· ·(Staff Corresponde?~t of Broolclyn 
. Eagle.J 

PRINCETON, ·N:-J:,-Oct; 25 . ..;..;...Don't ever laugh again at the movie magnate who .re­fused to accept "The Hunchback .of Notre · Dame" for production because he thought ­the public was tired of football stories. After watching Crowley, Miller ·.and Layden _do their stuff in the Palmer Memorial Stadium this afternoon, no one need wonder that Vic­tor Hugo has been more or less lost in the· shuffle. 
The halfbacks of. Notre Dame ran riot in defeating the mediocre looking Princeton· by the score of 12-0, a tally_ whi_ch by no means represents the · overwhelming superiority of the Westerners. Rockne's Rockets-roamed like wraiths over· the .cross-barred field to pile up the staggering totals·of 20 first downs·· by rushing, for an aggregate of 350 yards. ~are statistics make dry reading, but one Simply must understand the figures in order · to appreciate the complete ascendency ob­tained by the gentlemen from Indiana. 
Only a .crushing series of penalties and a · distressing succession of fumbles prevented · Notre Dame from rolling~~ up ·four touch­~owns instead of two. Despite the mislead­Ing score, Princeton was never in the run­ning. Until Weekes came in at halfback, the · Tiger offensive was a pathetic thing to con­template, the plays being smothere·d · at the · goal .line with uniform regularity. . · 
Prmceton employed the Nebraska defense against Rockne's lightning sweeps and slants, the tackles playing extrem.ely wide after the fashion taught by Coach Fred Dawson. This . defense, far more intelligently conceived than • that shown by the Army, proved futile in the face of the cyclonic speed unleashed by Harry Stuhldreher, the master mind of the· Notre Dame_ eleven. .As well try to halt a Kansas cyclone as to ·sfem the blue wave from Notre· Dame which breaks with thrashing violence on the luckless defensive ends and tackles. 
Wo~ked Hop-Shift Line ~ Machine. . .That neatl¥' .timed hop-sh_ift was working With the precisiOn of a turbme engine. The four Notre Dame hacks, aligned in. box for­mation, timed their jump to a nicety. As the ball was. passed, they halted with a click · for. just the fraction of a second called for by the r?les. Then the interferers· leaped ahead, clearmg out the Tiger defenders as a forest of fire licks up dry underbrush. Beside tha take-out man heading the tandem, .Rockne threw a roving guard against Princeton's loose tackle. In a compact cluster, the Notre Dame hacks swept around the Tiger ends or cut back viciously through tackle, interferers. mopping up the secondaries as the Yanks once mopped up the German "pill boxes." It was fascinat­ing to sit high up in the towering press box and watch Stuhldreher manipulate his men a~ Capablanca moves his pawns. Now it is Elmer Layden, the human mole, on a bullet like plunge through the heart of the brawny Tiger line. Layden who skims 
so close to the turf that one expects to see his neck· snapped off, Layden who keeps churn­ing ahead with three Princeton tacklers draped on his back, Layden who leans so far . f¢rward that he seems to be nose diving in­
stead of running. 
. Each of the Backs Shows His Worth. Now it is Don Miller's turn, Miller 'vith' t}J.e speed of the antelope and. the elusiveness of the serpent) .. Miller who sneaks. his way through would.-be tacklers, twisting his hips m•;ay .from.th~Ir d~sperate lunges, back jump-· mg and writhmg hke a hulahula dancer under-the .influence of rock brandy. · · · Now it is Jim Crowley's chance, Crowley the whirling dervish, Crowley the fighter who. literally claws his way' through the hearf. of the melee; Crowley who deliberately offers a tackler his foot and then 'vithdraws it· Crowley.who refuses to be stopped everi whe~ three pmrs of orange-striped arms are clutch­ing his blue jersey. · · Verily here is the mythical all-American backfield translated into reality; the. dream of a Walter Camp come true. No wonder Rockne pops up and down on the side-lines as he sees his outriders in .the blue drifting ghost-like through the crumbling orange wall; no won­der, Capt. Adam Walsh forgets the pain in his bandaged hands as he leans forward from his seat on the bench, his face· tense with emotion; no wonder the thousands of loyal Catholic rooters. massed in the west stand wave their azure-blue banners and ·shriek hys~er_ica:lly. Thi~ is a great.team, gentlemen· an mvest~en~ of beautiful precision., an out~ fit· that hits hke the hammer of Thor a bal­anced blend of power and deceptior: force and finesse; ' a typical Rockne team. a~d ipso facto one of the greatest.elevens of the mod­ern era. 
Plays Same Trick He Did With Army. Rockne sprang a foxy trick on th~ brawny Princeton eleven right at the start of ·the game. He took a chance which almost cost him dear. He gambled on his entire second team to halt Princeton for one· whole period, and the subs showed their beloved master that his faith was not misplaced. We have never before seim any coach start his entire second string in a supposedly major game~ Figuratively .speaking, it was a direct ship at Princeton's face. . It was ·a neat bit of psychology, for once Princeton found that the South Bend subs could stop her varsity com­bination, the ·Tigers· were seized ·with an in­feriority complex that settled the issue then and there. Rockne must have snickered up his sleeve as he ·sat on the bench and watched his subs play the Tiger regulars to a stand-· still. · Meanwhile the. Princeton players realized . that Notre Dame had a lethal charge of cor­dite, lyddite and T. N. T. bottled up on the sidelines in. the sinewy persons of Miller, Crowley and Layden. Sly fox that he is, Rockne knew that his three musketeers were chafing. under this enforced inactivity, that they were clamping at the bit, eager to be up and at 'em. 

l-
I·.>. I-~--;~~ .. 
I .. 
f: f 
I•··· 
~ :
! \·' ..
,.____ _ 
1:<
l . 
lI,:_· .
> 
[:·:~ 
I \. -·. 
I 
L

f. 

. ,'";....~ .,.;,,. 

. , . . 
~. 
Page~6~2~==============~1~9~~~4~F~0~0~7~B~A~LL==R=E==V=JE=UJ==============~========= 
Now It's Turn For the Regulars. as a Swiss-cheese has holes. The referee was unduly finicky and called "holding" and "off­
As the first quarter ended, the crowd was side" on almost every play.
treated to a unique sight. Rockne rose from his bench, gesturing with his right · ha.I:td· 
March Up Field for 80 Yards.
·with a concerted bound, the eleven Hoosier regulars tossed aside their blankets and raced The second half had barely started ere like whippets into the field, while the stadium Notre Dame unleashed the best sustained ad­
thundered its ovation. vance of the afternoon, carrying.. the ball from her own 20-yard line clear across the
"Here come the regulars," shouted from enemy goal. Unfortunately for .Notre Dame,a thousand Notre Dame throats. "\Vatch 'em this touchdown does not show m the sc~re,go." 
for the referee's eagle eye detected holdm$ 
As the sweat-smeared subs trooped off the on the play wherein Don Miller sneaked his field, Captain \Valsh personally slapped each way over the goal. man on the back and thanked him for ·his 
Elmer Layden was the hero of this superbvaliant effort. Now the fun began. It was 80-yard advance, at one time shootingchunky Stuhldreher who. started it by catch­through big holes for 17 yards. L~yden wasing the. Tiger punt and speeding 35 yards up ably assisted by Crowl~y and Mill~r, w~othe field. If you have seen a raindrop flit sneaked their way past Tiger tacklers m theirdown a window pane, now halting momen­own inimitable fashion.
tarily, now darting ahead, you can conjure up a mental picture of Stuhldreher's whirl­Notre Dame's second touchdown came at 
wind run. u!e start of the final period, after a 70-yard march. Yards meant nothing to th~ Indiana
Opening up his batteries, the Hoosier quar­typhoon. Layden, Crowley and Mille: t<?ok
ter sent Miller and Layden knifing through turns skirting the Tiger flanks or wrigglmgthe Tiger line until the 8-yard mark was through broad avenue in the line~ Crow­reached. A touchdown would have followed, ley's final stab for a touchdown was u"!lcan~y.
for Notre Dame is one team which does not At least four Princeton tacklers h1t himlose its punch when the goal line draws nigh, 
cleanly, but he twisted .and fought his wayhad not Layden fumbled the b~ll. The South 
through them all. Jim r~n '~ith knees ~~ngBend bullet . had actually broken clear 
high, twirling from the hips m a tantahzmgthrough the Tiger defense when the slippery fashion. Again Notre Dame's attempt atball popped ou~ of his hands. 
goal was blocked. 
Up the Field Again in Qu!ck Order. On the following kickoff the Hoosiers .as­tounded the critics by pulling the old flymg
A Tiger fell on the pigskin. F~oin be­wedge. It. didn't work very 'Yell, but it gavehind his goal line, Slagle punted to mid-field. 
old-timers a real thrill. Agam, the blue pa­That's supposed to be well out of danger, but rade started. This time Don Miller slippedwhen Notre Dame has the ball, any point past off tackle for a hair-raising dash of .35 yards.
mid-field is a scoring zone~ It took the rol­Don back-jumped his way past three Tigerlicking Irish exactly five plays once more to ·tacklers.
put those 50 yards behind them. A well con­cealed forward pass, Stuhldreher to Miller, Battered Layden Is Finally Stopped.lopped off some 20 yards. Then came a low 
One of the few: forward passes that Rock­plunge by Layden, the human mole, who bur­ne's men resorted to next carried the ballrowed through center like a swimmer execu­close to the goal. Discarding his flashy stuff,ting the crawl. Crowley completed the· job, 
Stuhldreher now used Layden as a battering ·fighting his way through five Tiger tacklers ram. Just before the goal line was reach~d
.to fall headlong across the line. 
Layden was knocked cold. He was still 
On this thrilling play, the hop-shift shook groggy as he regained his feet, but Stuhl­Crowley past the primary line of defense. dreher called on him for the final plunge not­He went the rest of the way on his own, withstanding. It was bad judgment. Layden
squirming, writhing, back jumping and shin­was so goofy he didn't know which way the ing like a pin-wheel. Jim is Irish and just goal lay. Princeton stopped him before. he naturally refused to listen to reason. Notre · could dive and took the ball on downs right
Dame's try for goal was blocked. Rockne on the goal line. seems to have overlooked the factor of ·pro­
As the gentle Jersey twilight enveloped
viding protection for his kicker. Still, under the players the whistle shrilled, ending thethe circumstances, we are inclined to forgive game. Princeton had waged a game but fu­him. He taught his boys everything but how tile fight against a team that knew more foot­to find the fourth demension. On this block­ball than the Tigers have ever known or willed kick, the Tiger guards pulled Notre Dame's ever know. As a coach Knute Rockne beginscenter forward on his face and let Prince­where most of the other mentors leave off.
ton's pivot man through. 
Beacons are burning along the banks ofJust before the half ended, Dignan of the: Wabash tonight, where the sycamoresPrinceton forgot to keep his fists in check, whisper beneath a pale Indiana moon. Rock­
and was immediately expelled for slugging, ne has scored his second "double." Once Notre Dame getting half the distance of the again he has taken ATmy and Princeton goal line. The game was as full of penalties within the space of 14 days. 

-·. 

192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Page 63 
WARREN '"· BnowN 
(Chicago Herald and Examiner.) 

If \Valter Camp thought the Illinois-Chica­go game was a sensational display of offen­sive stuff, he should have been at Forbes Field today. ·walter would have dropped his mous­tache in astonishment at the marvelous exe­cution of attacking plays by the Notre Dame team. 
In those two closing periods Notre Dame tried six forward passes and completed all, bringing the total to twelve out of'fifteen for the afternoon. They piled up fifteen first downs, for a total of twenty-six for ·the af­ternoon, to Tech's six. They gave what friends "Pop" Warner, late of Pittsburgh, had 
I· in the house, plenty to write to him about for reference on New Year's day at Pasadena. They pulled their string of victories for the season to ten without a defeat. They clinched their claim to the championship of
"·­
all the country east and south of· Nebraska. They demonstrated that they are as much at home on a snow-covered field in North Pole weather as on green turf, in nice early Oc­
tober climate. . 
Considerable aggregation, these Rockne Ramblers; from their fighting leader, Adam Walsh, who, injured repeatgdly in to-day's fray, stuck to his job until victory was abso­lute and certain, down to the lowliest of the third string men who came so fast, and so numerous, late in the game that they defied 
indentification. . 
When they piled off ·the field today, their uniforms streaked with mud and caked with m~sh~ snow, they se~t 32,000 Pittsburgherssh1vermg home, knowmg that they had seen the greatest of the great. . If there is any argument about it, "Pop" Warner, January 1, and Pasadena are not so very far off. 
They travel far, and they travel fast, these 
Horsemen. 



·:;;
·-:·&~ 
•.,., ... !

t::!!!!!I!.IIII!I!!!!!!!!~~~~~Z:::!::=:::==============:-·::·-::-:,:··=I=============:=---~-· Jtf;_
' 
-~ 

I 
t.. 
I 

t 
!. 
' 
!

Notre Dame, National : 
Cham.pions 
t

; . 
Go buck and check the record over. Here nrc a few figures that will help you: In eighteen yea:rs of Notre Dame football, (1906-192•1), 153 games played, 135 

.G 
won; 6 tied. . · 

/::·, 
In eighteen years, only seven rivals able to score victories. 

i­
f

Seven years, the Blue and Gold goal never crossed. '. 
' 
Since 1918: 17•13 points against 275 points for our opponents; 56 out of 63 games w·on; 3 tied. 
Si~ce 1918, Notre Dame's average score 27 2-3 against 4 1-3 for our opponents. 

:­
And for 1924? Nine games played. Nine games won. Not a ·game tied, not a game lost. That's the record up to January 1, 1925. National Champions. Now fill the lust score·binnk out for yourself: 
Notre Dame -~o,::::_~~7~---­
Leland Stanford'------_/_·0=-----­
;! 

Notre Dame, National Champions ,'.: 

1-. 
. I~ . 

...&CLAVE PRINTING co_,, SOUTH BEND 


..~ 
' r : ...~;,. -• T ._ n < • I ~ • , "-• ~ i • \ ' , t " • 
0 


:-.._ '. _-,. "...... ~"~·: _.;... 
·:·: _:.··] 
··-1 
-·l 
j 
--:~-l 
.I 
._, 
"1 
-4 







