Notre Dame Football, 1918. 
A thing is considered a success if the results are commensurate with the time and energy expended. This fall the Notre. Dame football team had-, but little time for practice, but' used up myriads of units of energy. What have the men of the team to show for this? First of all they have played a man's game well. In addition they have learned to think; they have forihed friendships which will last throughout their lives; and they have developed loyalty, a loyality to a mother University which can come only from fighting for her. To the foot­ball squad for their successful work of the' season the University gives homage. • 
COACH ROCKNE. 
After spending the summer at Fort Sheridan Coach iRockne returned for the opening practice in the middle of September. The prospect was only fair. Vohs, Powers, Bader, Hoar, Kennedy, Dooley, and Brandy, men-on whom he had been depending, were all commissioned at Fort Sheridan. The loss of these experienced players was a severe one, but the coach went ahead cheerfully to buUd a .team from almost en^ tirely new timber. Gipp, Bahan, Stine, and Smith were the old men back, and their work, was later the salvation of the team. The rescinding of- the freshman rule made every coUege student in the University eligible, and with this as an impetus the squad began:to grow by leaps and bounds. Before the inaugura­tion of the S. A. T. C. there were more than eighty men out in uniform. Most of' these were boys just out of high school. ­
Practicing twice a day untU the formation 
of the Army units, the squad improved rapidly. DaUy scrimmages began to bring out good men,­and left the team for the Case game at Cleve­land in good condition. •. Case was defeated 26 to 
6. This game showed the coach just where the defects in team play were and also who was who in the personnel. Gipp and Bahan were the stars in the backfield; but what was most pleasing to the coach was the stonewall defence of the line. "While the play, as a whole, was more or less crude, it was a team of.- possibilities. Their "come-back" in the second half showed that they had the make-up of a typical Notre Dame-eleven. -• 
With the mobilization of the. S. A. T. C. practice was gieatly restricted, but .the boys worked with a will and showed steady .im­provement. Then began that series of dis­appointments which for a while threatened- to overwhelm athletics in general. The Edu­cational Committee of the War Department for-, bade long trips and the dreaded influenza began to make its presence felt. The West Point and the Washington and-Jefferson games were cancelled and the Nebraska game moved 
• back to the 2nd of November. With . the scheduling of the great Pier game of. Chicago and Camp Custer things began .to readjust themselves. Oh Saturday, October 19, the Pier team made their appearance in South Bend, but there was no game. The influenza epidemic was at its height, and as the medical authorities thought it best to prohibit gatherings of any sort,' the game was cancelled. : The game with Camp Custer was • also • called off. Football practice itself was even prohibited. for a. few days. Some days later the situation was so much better that the epidemic ban was lifted.^ Work was begun for .the Nebraska game. Coach McNamara's freshmen scrimmaged, .the .Varsity daily using Nebraska formations.' The team was. worked up to a high state-of physical \ and mental perfection and even "the coach was optimistic. . As the boys were about to leave for Lincoln a-message was received stating that the ban was on in Nebraska:. Seeing that the team must have some game or they would lose heart. Coach 'Rockne- worked all day; and finally late that evening scheduled a-contest, with Wabash :at Crawfofdsville. . •:. • 
The lyittle Giants had an off day, and though they fought with all their traditional courage Notre Dame romped away with the game.--The final score was 66 to 7. Stine was injured rather 
 '^ e Houre 6ame ^hoiascie 
severety, and it was this injury which was to prove so costly to Notre Dame the following Satuxday. Miles, Miller, Dunn and Connor had left for training camps and as a result there was a shortage of linemen. The two under­studies to Stine, Owens arid Nadolny, were also injured, and it was this shortage in tackles which opened the way for the Great Lakes touchdown late in the game on Saturday, the nt h of November. The Great Lakes with a most formidable line-up, including Bachman, Jones, Keefe and Driscoll, seemed to be an easy winner on paper, but they were due for a surprise. Notre Dame outplayed them for three-quarters of the gaibe and only the greenness of the team prevented them from scoring again on the sailors a few minutes before the whistle blew. The score, 7 to 7, was a virtual 
victory for Notre Dame. 
On the following Saturday the Gold and Blue, out of her element in the mud, was defeated by the Michigan Aggies 13 to 7. The light Irish team found their speed neutralized on the heavy 
£ i;j J w-i. T. • T^ ui ^ 1- 1J 
neld and the heavier Farmers were able to hold them. Gipp and Bahan were both injured, and though the rest of the men played the Aggies to a standstill, the Michigan boys got the breaks and the game. Notre Dame made 16 first downs to the home team's 12. 

On a dry field a week later Notre Dame won the State Championship by wallopmg Purdue 26 to 6. Barry took Bahan's place at half and played a remarkable game. The heavy Purdue team was outplayed in every point of the game, and there was no questioning the superiority of the Irish. Purdue made three first downs by the aerial route and that was the extent of 
.their ground.gaining for the day. Gipp ran 
..then- ends at will and Lambeau toie then line to shreds. Notre Dame gained over 400 yards on straight football. The only lamentable in­cident of the game occurred within the last minutes of play when Mohn, the flashy N. D. quarterback, hurt a rib: WhUe the injury was not serious, yet it was enough to keep him out of the big game on Thanksgiving day. 
Bahan tried to take Mohn's place at Nebraska but lasted only a few minutes." Lockard then played until he was hurt late in the third period, Notre Dame played the whole last quarter without a quarterback, but came within a few yards of winning in tlie last few minutes of the game. Heavy mud again prevented thie Notre Dathe team from winning a game which cer­ tainly would have been hers on a dry field,  She made twelve first downs to the Corn­ huskers' none. As it was only the excellent  punting by Dobson that saved Nebraska again  and again. They were fortunate to hold Notre  Dame to a scoreless tie. 
 The Notre Dame team of this year was the  lightest in t'ae history of.the institution, but  they made up for this in fight, brains, and  determination. Despite^ almost insurmountable  obstacles they played their season and leave a splendid record behind them. Facult}'-, alumni  and students can well be proud of them. They  upheld every honorable tradition of an in­ stitution where they develop men. 

••—^^ — final The Men of the Team. 
 'Piie 1918 football season at Notre Dame is  jiistory, but before the page is turned some  ^j-ief comment on the men who made -the  team is in order: 
_ 
 KIR K AND ANDERSON. 

 Notre Dame teams have in general been  characterized by good ends, and the eleven  of 1918 has been no exception; In Anderson  and Kirk the Gold and Blue possessed two wing  guardians of the first water. If there were  any better in the West we have not seen them,  In Koing down under punts, catching passes,  and breaking up interference, briefly, in all  <^^at ends should do, these two men excelled, ^^^Y each have two more years of eligibility  ^^ college athletics, 
 BAHAN, ACTING CAPTAIN. 

. p^^^ gghan played his usual game, the kind  ^f football of which very few are capable, and ^ tj^ese few words all has been said. As a­ contender'for all-Western honors Pete should ^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ recognized as among the best in  ^^^llege and service elevens. In the course of  ^he season Lieut. McReavy of the Great  j^^kes spoke of Bahan and his running mate,  (.jpp^ ^s "wonderful." A torn cartilage sus­ Gained in the Michigan Aggies game kept him  ^^^ ^f the Purdue and the Nebraska game, and  jj^^jj jQ^^h to do with the scoring of Rockne's 
 j^^ ^ jj ^ jg captain-elect for next season. 
 Cripp. 

 Notre Dame in the past few years has been  fortunate in possessing one or more stars of the first magnitude, and the 1918 team had no less 
a star than George Gipp. George never failed to gain when called upon. His prowess can be 
- .  *  ' -^ '"*  
» ­" -^SL  
^''  • J j tli^  '  1  

iffVShtSrJB^^ySa^^^^^B 
BAHAN, ACTING CAPTAIN. 

understood when one considers the fact that he went into every, game a "marked man"— which .fact availed opposing teams nothing in their attempts to stop him. Next to running the ball, his forward passing was a feature in' all the games. Because of his accuracy he dared to pass.in his own territory, setting a precedent which few care to follow. Gipp has two more years in which to continue his wonders. 
STINE. Up to the time when Coach Rockne learned that Roily Stine would be back he had lost not a few hours of sleep over his left tackle. But once certain that the "red-head" from Oregon was returning, his worries were ended. Roily was one of the elements in the wall that stopped every attack. An injured knee, which would have kept most men out of the game, only made this quiet lad from the far West grit his teeth and play the harder. A Notre Dame man and a fighter is "Roily, with one more year to play. 
H. ANDERSON. 

One H. Anderson was the boy who "crashed 'em" game after game. He was one of those immovables known as a good guard. Plays designed to gain groimd through Notre Dame's left center were smashed regularly by the lad from Michigan. He was equally good at moving an opponent out of the way to permit a Gold­and-Blue back to go through. Anderson also is good for two more years. 
LARSEN. 

Larsen, the center, came to Notre Dame as a tackle, but he soon became a wortiiy successor of Feeney, Fitzgerald and "Big Frank." Seldom did his snap backs go awry. A power on offense, he was a hard man to go through when on the defensive. Steadiness was his big asset: He never had much to say, but his work in every game spoke for itself. He has two more years. 
CROWLEY. It is fitting that the East and the West should have divided the tackle positions, and Crowley from Boston played his part with honor. A shifty man on defense, he was hard to put out of a play, and when called upon to dear the way for the backfield the men carrying the ball never failed to find an opening. In the two years he has yet to play imder Rockne, he should become one of the best tackles in the game. 
SMITH. 

There were those who doubted Rockne's wisdom in using "Smitty" at guard, but the first game of the season proved that the Coach was right, as he usually is. Notre Dame has had some wonderful guards in her history, but none better than "Pitch" Because of his ability to coyer ground, he was used on defense as a "floating center." In this position he was invaluable, so invaluable that in a certain game an opposing coach told his boys "to get 
hi;-'*'': J "=-^'•iAi^'~'fi£-f 
131 
GIPP, LEFT HALF. 

Smith," but the game ended with "Smitty" still knocking- them down. Several teams spent 

'^eNoure <!)ame Scholascic 
a very unpleasant hour on a Saturda}'' because of this stellar guard's ability to clip. He has two more years to play. 
MOHN. Another of the manj' boys from the South Bend "High" who have made good at Notre Dame is Willie Mohn. His lack of experience at the beginning of the 3''ear was made up hy his abilit}' in absorbing football principles, and the close of the season found him one of 
made the loss of Bahan less keenly felt. He is a Notre-Dame man with plent}'-of the "ole fight," and he will help Rockne for two more years. • \ 
IvAMBEAU. To fill the shoes of such men as Eichenlaub and John Miller-is no easy task, but in Lam-beau Coach Rockne made no mistake. A line-plunger of terrific power, he was also wonderful in off-tackle drives. He backed up the line 

, ' . THE TEAM OF 1918.­FRONT ROW: Lockard, quarterback; Barry, halfbsck; Mohn, quarterback. MIDDLE ROW: E. Anderson, right end; Smith, rightguardj Bahan, jight half; Kirk, left end; H; Anderson, left guard. BACK Row: Coach Rockne; Crowley, right tackle; Lambeau, fullback; Gipp, left half; Stine, left tackle; I.arsen, center. 
the most dependable quarter-backs in the West. His run of sevent^'^-three yards at Purdue was one of the features of the 1918 season. With his two more years, of .opportunity he should write his name large in^ football history. 
BARRY. ~ Soine day "Chris" Barry is not coming back to Notre Dame in September and then the old school will have .closed its career. From the Minim Specials in St_. Edward's Hall to the Varsily-is the career of this speedy little man from Chicago. As a defensive man Barry ranks with the best, arid his ability to gain ground 
unfailingl}'-and was one of the chief reasons why opponents failed to gain. With Rockne as a teacher, "Curly" has a bright future in his two remaining years of competition. 
IvOCKARD. Lockard weighs but 134 pounds, but he made up for this deficiency in weight by craftiness arid quick thinking. He always out-guessed the opposing team, and his own teain always felt confident that he would choose the right play. Although handicapped^ by an injured knee, "Abie" played through most of the season. With one more year to play, he should prove a 

valuable asset to the team no matter how good they may prove to be. 
THE SQUAD. Upon every football squad there are several players known as the second string. The men who this year, played that role at Notre Dame wotild have gladdened the heart of an)'- coach. Donovan andShanahan were a set of ends who could hold their own in any company, and in tlieir remaining, two years will undoubtedly win berths for themselves. Owens, better known as the "Sergeant," failed to make his monogram because of ah injured ankle. "Dog" White, the • understudy for • center, always ' delivered when, called upon. The lad from Tennessee will undoubledly be a regular before his two remaining •)^ears of competition are finished. "Peaches Nadolny from de Nort" was a tackle.of no small ability. Cahill and Saunders as guards will, with a little more experience, be top-notchers. Lombardo, Mohardt, Wynn 
• and Phillips in the backfield relieved the coach of any worries he might have had when the regulars were injured or taken out. Dorgan, Grabner, Devine and Prokop. were men who with a little more work will be among the best. Taken as a whole, the second string would bring honor to an}'' school. Their share in the team's success, which is after all the whole aim of, any right-minded football squad, may not have been duly observed by spectators, but the coach and those who can appreciate their-work can be glad that they had such a select set from which to draw in the pinches. 
COACH ?.OCKNE In every football season there is one man who, amidst a number of luminaries, will stand out most prominently. Such a one this y^ear in Western football was our own Coach *9.ockne. Never in the history of football at Notre Dame has a coach opened his. season under such dis­couraging difficulties as "I'iock" encountered in. this first j^ear of his as athletic director of the Gold and Blue. Men upon whom he had planned to build his team failed to return, and when the time came to issue the football tegs he had but three veterans on the stafi'. Unabashed by the prospects, however, he set to work and evolved from his scant material a' team' that compares favorably'- with any of the great "Irish" elevens. He instilled into, the men as if by magic that spirit of fight for which he himself is famous. From Case to 
Nebraska the men, .fiUed with, the do-or-dfe spirit-'of .their ,coach, battled; against'heayier teams to victor}'-. Only once-did "Rocfe" machine suffer defeat,—at the hands of *:the Michigan Aggies,- upon a field -where the men from Notre Dame could not do justice to"them­selves. Even in the mud, where "the hea-vy Aggie team was in its elemieht, the opponents could not gain through .the Notre Dame line.. Such is the spirit jR.ockne puts into his men. 
Notre Dam.e is peculiarlyr-fortimate in having such a. man to conduct her athletics. -.Under him victories will come, and' the very occasional defeats will be mitigated by the knowledge that "Rock's" men have never been outfought. Coach /Jlockne" is a true Notre Dame man to whom the teams can always look for inspiration. If there is any praise due 'the Notre'Dame foot­ball team of 1918, it must go first of "^all to Coach Rockne. ," '"' " ." 
Thoughts. 

Success is born of sacrifice. . ... . ... ., A labor of love is never tiresome. " ,-v . :• A faiUng need not result in failure!. "; • • . Only the low-bred live the "high life."' ­Experience is often a high-salaried tutor. A half-hearted begianing is ah omen of-a tloor 
fraish.. • . .^. , . ,, . Money talks in foreign language to ..many people. - . . ' , ; . _ 
•Be a vbluntar}' student and not an inteUect­'Ual slacken - •-. -••-..'. -Maiiy students should be arrested for intellect­
ual vagrancy. Although the truth hurts, not everything that 
•hurts is truth. ' ... . 
"Do as I say, but not as I do," is very poor advice from a minister. 'Love is^an ocean in which there are both gold fish and deep-sea dragons. . It is in the. very course o£ nature that we have a few thorns among our flowers.-. Only those who have borne the burdens of-vvar can duly appreciate the blessing of peace. . The darkest hour of the. night is when the hus­band comes home and. can't find the key-hole. Many people-distract attention from their faults by talking about those of their neighbor. 
^—^T.-j.HANiFm. 


