-m^ 
College  m.  
Sports Editors'  
First Annual  
All-American  ^i - 
Pages  26-27  
m­ 
iiilS  
•K.vn  m  
-M  
>^  

^  *  ..-J  
g-^»x.5#^f  
\' .  »• "  •  '-•-;  SS^  
SM:.'!  

vVrVv^ ^> >T :- ^' A
fm^^ 
^•g5g^^s:^^^gs-^aa^.ja]&:^iitga8wajs^as^^ 
A NEVJ IDEA IN SMOKING! 


Switch to ...smoke refreshed 
Take a Puff—It's Springtime! 
Tobacco Company 

This inviting spring scene tells you how refresh­ing SALEJI tastes. Pure menthol-fresh comfort full rich tobacco flavor with a new surprise soft­ness — modern filter, too. You smoke refreshed! New experience for anj' smoker. Try SALEM! 

It's delightful to smoke Salem...you'll love 'em! • 
Oran Ritier asks: 


Does Du Pont hire men who have definite military commitments? 

Oran A. Ritter, Jr., expects to receive Ms B.S. in chemical engineer­ing from Louisiana State University in June 1957. He's now editor­in-chief of the "L.S.U. Engineer," local president of Tau Beta Pi, and senior member of the Honor Council of his university. Oran's ques­tion is on the minds of many men planning a technical career. 
Donald G. Sutherland graduated from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in 1953 with an M.S. degree in chemical engineering and an R.O.T.C. commission. He was hired by Du Font's plant at Victoria, Texas. After two years in the service, Don returned to his career in engineering, and is now doing plant-assistance work in the technical section at Victoria. 
Y
ES, Oran, we certainly do! We've employed quite a number of college graduates with definite military commitments, even when we knew they could work no more than a few weeks before reporting for duty. Take my own case. I was hired in November of 1953 and worked for only four weeks before leaving for the Army. Two years later I returned to Du Pont. 
You see, we're primarily interested in men on a long-range basis. The fact that they're temporarily unavail­able, for a good reason like military service, isn't any bar to their being considered for employment. After working only one day, an employee is guaranteed full re-employ­ment rights^that's the law. And if a man works for Du Pont a full year before entering the service for two or more years, he receives an extra two months' salary. If he goes into the service for six months, he's paid a half 
December 7, 1956 
IW'*.»lJaj*ifcM.tl'g'M 

•WJ*»Ml.W-»» 
month's salary. When he's entitled to a vacation but doesn't have time to take it before leaving, Du Pont gives him equivalent pay instead. 
Even if present employrnent is impossible, Oran, we definitely recommend your talking with Du Pont's repre­sentatives as well as those of other companies. The very least you'll gain will be valuable background and some contacts of real benefit to you when you leave military service. 
WANT TO KNOW MORE about Working with DuPont? Send for a free copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate," a booklet that tells you about oppor­tunities for work in all departments of the Company. Write to the Du Pont Company, 2521 Nemours Building, Wil­mington, Delaware. • 
l'E5.U.S.PAT;0rt 
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THSOUGH CHEMISTXr 
Watch "Du Pont Theater" on television 

The Notre Dame 

t'j 

PROBLEM: 
How to get home for the Holidays? 



SOLUTION: 

Fly United Air Lines speedy Mainliners! 
Going Home or planning a holi­day vacation? You'll save valu­able vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, depend­able service to 80 cities coast-to­coast (including the top ski re­sorts) and to Hauaii. 'Round the clock schedules. Call or visit your nearest United office or authorized travel agent today! 
It's the 

•^'R.WTURBOW 
VPPTOMETRIST 
lAHS-imiTZSCH 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 

Ligfafe Ship 
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated 
for "Personalized" "Bring in the Pieces" 
CHRISTMAS GIFTS EYES EXAMINED 
Michigan at Colfax 207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777 






Scholastic 
Vol. 98 December 7, 1956 No. 10 i^ 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus 
f
Vive Quasi Cras Moritunis 
Founded 1867 
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ^ 
Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of J 
postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized 
June 23, 1918. 
^m 
CHARLES McKENDRICK 
Editor 
JOE NORTON 
Associate Editor 
DAVE THOMPSON 
Associate Editor ,
i
i 
JIM STEINTRAGER News Editor JAMES MCDONALD copy Editor DAVID KUBAL Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS Assistant News JIM DULAN Assistant News JOE HEIMOSKI Assistant News BOB VONDRASEK Assistant News, 
'^ 
HARRY McKEE Assistant Cop MARSH PIDGEON Assistant Copy 
JOHN GLAVIN 
Football Review Editor 
BOB EARLY Assistant 
MIKE FITZPATRICK Assistant 
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. / HARRY CONLON Business Mgjgf 
GAMES : Bob Early, Carl SkifT, Ray Lescher, Jim Merz, Joe Bride, Jim Goethals, John McMahon, Pat DeFoe, Jack Grady, Joe Norton. 
FEATURES: Mike Fitzpatrick, Bob Early, Roger Valdiserri, Bruce Huot, Ed Rohrbach, Joe Doyle. 
PHOTOGRAPHY: Bob Early, Jerrold Hilton, Chick Martin, Angeleno Photo Sen-ice, Los -^ 
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As­
sociated^ Collegiate Press. Represented for national 
advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 
420 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the 
school year, except during vacation and examina­
tkm periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad­•I 
dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre 

Dame, Indiana. 
d
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25^ 'V 

Football Review 
AM Outside Rooms Completely Air-Conditioned Indiana's Newest and Hnest 
92 Rooms  •  92 Bafhs  
• TERRACE DINING• PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS • BEAUTIFUL PATIO   ROOM  GOLF PRIV ILEGES  • CIRCULATING ICE WATER • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM • LARGE PARKING AREA  
JjeticLous  ^ooa  JjeuqhifuL  Jjrinks  

Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
Prompt Attention Will Be Given Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends. 
Owned and Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager 
• Best Wishes to the 


1956 Fighting Irish 
compliments 
National Milk Company 
Tastee Milk of Superior Quality 921 So. Louise 
SOUTH BEND, IND. Phone AT 7-1563 MICHIGAN Cmr, IND. Phone 6-fi277 
MISHAWAKA, IND. NORTH LIBERTr, IND. 
ELKHART, IND. LAPORTE, IND. 
Slj 
December 7, 1956 
1«^­
f 
^ 

YOU CAN TELL BY THAT "EXTRA SERVICE-••• 
Ever walk into a strange restaurant, dressed your "best," and notice what a difference it makes . . . the extra service you get? That should be proof enough that you should "Dress Right. . . you can't afford not to!" A good appearance will open any door, and since 90% of what others see of you is the clothes you wear, it's pretty important, isn't it? Let the Campus Shop help you "build" a wardrobe, for now and the future! 
DRESS RIGHT — you can't afford nof fo.' 
fCILBERrS 
On the Campus—Notre Dame # Football Review 
PAY PAY 
FEB MAR 


YES. PAY ONE-THIRD IN FEBRUARY. ONE-THIRD IN MARCH. ONE-THIRD IN APRIL 
IF you're on a budget, and most of us are, being well-dressed also has a financial side. That's where we come in with the Campus Shop Charge Account. Buy what you need now, pay for it this convenient way . . . begiiming in February. Naturally, there is no carrying charge. So, come in tomorrow, buy what you need, charge it the Campus Shop way! 
DRESS RIGHT — you can'f offord nof fo.' 
^ILBERrS 
t^f^i 
'-\;i^S 
On the Campus—Notre Dame December 7, 1956 
IN UNBREAKABLE PLASTIC I
HAIR GROOM 
Grooms your hair while it treats your

TONIC 
scalp. Controls loose dandruff. 1.00 
nlitc tntox
plus 
SHULTON New York • Toronto 
Eddie's Dining Room 
Luscious Foods 

From Land and Sea 
DINNERS COCKTAILS 
AAA Recommended  602 V2 South Walnut  
Restaurant  AT 7-9345 for reservation  
J  

Football Review 
< \j.
•Qualitv Tobacco Real Rltrarton EMII King Size 
^^^•^\.asur8 ,,^^^ 
^A I 
%: 
mf'-i'm•«>$ 
v: 

FILTER TIP 
X'^ ^'







TARETfTON 
CICARETTES 
^'*«^T> 
V«rf"'^^^J^(lA»W 
vHiERNSlZB 
the taste is great! 

1A ri ¥1M 
®*,T. CO. I'RotHiCT OF ^n» iJ!^ru^toectin> ^amxeec-^cmyxa>n^ AMHUCA'S UAWNG MA*«ifACTti*£« of ctoAtFrrts 
» 
December 7, 1956 
s 


Fighting Irish of 1956 
Football Review 

Mustangs Trample Irish 
by BOB EARLY 
Dallas, Tex., Sept. 22—Notre Dame, rated third in the nation in the pre­season polls, took it on the chin tonight 19-13 from a highly spirited Southern Methodist eleven before some 61,000 people here in the Cotton Bowl. The defeat opening the Irish's 68th football 
^season was the second in eight games against the Mustangs and their first initial loss since 1934. It also marked the first time a Notre Dame team has ever been beaten in September. The story of the game for SMU was their brilliant junior quarterback, Charlie Arnold, who did everjrthing but kick the extra points as he matched Notre Dame's Ail-American Paul Hox-­nung on every tuni and then went him ^one better A\'ith 1:50 remaining to be played, faking beautifully into the line and then handing off to halfback Len Slaughter who cross-bucked 14 yards foi­the winning touchdown. The game, played in 87-degree heat, staii:ed slowly. Hornung returned the opening kickoff to the 27. Aubrey Lewis 
got a first down to the 4(>, but a lo-yard penalty stopped the drive and the Irish punted. Then after another exchange of punts the Mustangs started a drive from their ovrn 21. Dan Bowden cracked up the middle for a first down on the 32, but then the drive bogged momen­tarily and SM'U had to kick. The punt rolled into the end zone but the play was nullified by a personal foul and the Tex­ans had new life on the Irish 47. Several plays later Arnold went back to pass from the 31 and hit Boyd Waggoner for the touchdown. Bob Scannell and John McDonnell broke up the extra point attempt. 
A penalty put the Mustangs back in a hole as the second quai-ter started and they punted out to the 40. But again an Irish bid was stopped, this time as Arnold picked off a Hornung pass in­tended for end Gary Myers and ran it back inside the Irish 20. The defense tightened and the Mustangs tried a field goal, but missed. 
The i-eturn drive came to an abrupt 
AP Wirephotc, 
COOKE STOPS SHORT GAIN 

halt when Leighton Steward crashed through the line and jaiTed the ball loose from Hoi-nung. Jerry Comelison recovered on the NO 46, and nine" plajrs later the Mustangs were on the one-foot line, where Arnold went over for the score. This time Tommy Gentry booted the point and the Irish were down 13-0 as the half ended. 
Southern Methodist controlled for the first five minutes of the third period, then kicked to the Notre Dame seven. With third and one Jim Morse bulled for " the first down on the 17. Lewis picked up 18 on a quick opener and Honiung threw to Morse for ten more. Then on first down Hornung heaved a long pass to Morse who got behind the defenders for the visitors' first score. The play covered 55 yards. 
SMU moved to the Notre Dame 31 late in the period but were stopped when Dick Prendergast batted down" a field goal attempt. 
As the last quailer started, the Irish had moved to a fourth down three situa­tion on their own 43. Hornung went back to punt but instead ran around right end, faked beautifully to fullback Nomi Odyniec at one point, and scamp­ered 57 yards down the side line to tie the score at 13-13. The point attempt by Hornung was wide. 
After an exchange of punts SMU staiied another drive on their 13. Twice, at their 23 and 33, they gambled on fourth down situations, and twice they made it. Arnold flipped a pass to Slaughter who sped 31 yards to the ND 
14. Then came the Slaughter scoring plunge and the Irish trailed 19-13. Prendergast again knocked down the placement. 
With 28 seconds left to play Al Ecuyer dived On an Arnold fumble on the Notre Dame 41. Lewis ran across ftiidfield to the 42. Then Hornung went back to pass and hit Morse on the seven yai-d line, buit the time ran out as Morse was 
AP Wireptioto 

tackled, and Notre Dame was beaten. 
ARNOLD HURDLES FRONT WALL 
December 7, 1956 

Irish Whip Hoosiers, 20-6 
by CARL SKIFF 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 6—Two hard running fullbacks, a quarterback who did all things well, a speedy halfback, and a goal line stand pro\ided the ex­citement as Notre Dame won its first game in two starts this year, 20-6, over a stubborn Indiana eleven. 
The two fullbacks were Indiana's Bob Fee and Jim Yore who were in and out of the Irish defense all afternoon. The quarterback was Notre Dame's Paul Honiung who scored one touchdown, ])assed for another, and added two extra jioints. The speedy halfback was the Irish's Aubrey Lewis who scored two touchdowns, the last one clinching the game. The goal line stand came in the third quarter and proved to be the turn­ing point of the game. 
Playing before a capacity crowd of -58,372, which jammed the Notre Dame stadium on an alternately gray and bi'ight afternoon, the Irish marched 73 yards in six plays for a touchdown the first time they had the ball. They added another touchdown early in the second quarter and led at halftime, 13-6. 
But it wasn't until the Irish defend­ers stopped a Hoosier drive on the goal line in the third quarter that the tide of the battle shifted to Notre Dame. The Hoosiers took a Notre Dame punt on their own 33-yard line and drove to the Irish one-yard line. A backfield-in-motion penalty set them back to the five yard line but Fee, a 204-pound senior, re­trieved three yards before Irish end Gary Myers and safety man Hornung stopped him. After fullback Chuck Lima halted the Hoosier fullback for no gain, Lima joined speedy Lewis in running Indiana's Dave Whitesell out of bounds at the one-yard line. Lewis, Gene Hed­rick, and Frank Geremia then thwarted Fee in a fourth down smash. 
The Irish then drove all the way down the field to score, covering the 99 yards in 11 plays. Lewis registered his second touchdown with a nine-yard sprint around left end. 
Hornung began the afternoon by flip­ping the ball to Captain Jim Morse, who pitched 20 yards to Eon Toth, one of the six sophomores who started the game for the Irish. Toth brought it to the Irish 46 where Jim Just, also a sophomore who opened at fullback, took a pitchout from Hornung and went to the Indiana 35 yard line. 
Hornung drove to the Indiana 10 yard line on a keeper play for a first do\\'Ti. Morse chipped in with five and Hornung smashed over the goal line in two plays, adding the extra point. All this was accomplished in less than six minutes. 
Notre Dame scored its second touch­down early in the second period going 43 yards after Hoi-nung had made a fair catch of a punt on his own 47. Hornung then threw a 23-yard pass to Toth. Just added five, then Lewis ran 14 yards around right end. 
Hornung went for five on another keeper, then passed to Morse for Avhat appeared to be a touchdowTi. However, a holding penalty cancelled the play, but 
HORNUNG GAINS THIRTEEN 

Hornung hit Morse again and then shot 
a 12-yard pass to Lewis for the score. 
Fee and Yore, ably supported by quar­terback Tom Kendrick and Whitesell, didn't get around to manufacturing the only Indiana touchdown of the day until the second period. The 220-pound Yore, ^ who gained 109 yards in 13 carries, wafc*.' the main factor in the Indiana touch­do\vn. Yore took the kickoflF following the Notre Dame second touchdown and moved it dowTi field until Kendrick was finally forced to punt. After Indiana regained possession Kendrick hit end Bernie Grunza with a 30-yard pass. P\)ur plays later, with the ball on the Irish one, Kendrick bulled across. 
After the halftime intermission, Indi^ , ana started to take the Irish defense' apart. From their own 35 the Hoosiers crunched out 25 yards on the first play with Fee carrying. Whitesell and Fee slammed all the way to the Ii'ish one yard line where the Irish held, took over the ball, and clinched the game A\nth a 99-yard drive. 
Morse started the key Irish drive by bolting to the five. Lewis then grabbed a lateral from Hornung and cut the cor-v" ner around right end for 30 yards to the 35. Hornung pitched a strike to Myers on the 49, and Chuck Lima, Hornung and Lewis alternated thrusts to the Indiana 27 for a first dowTi. Hor­nung then passed 16 yards to Morse on the 11. After Lima got two yards, Lewis outsped the Hoosier defense to the corner of the end zone for the thircjU; and final touchdown. Hornung convertec* for a 20-6 lead with less than four min­utes left in the third period. 
For all pi-actical purposes, that was the ball game. Neither team penetrated closer than 40 yards of the goal line thereafter except in the final minute when Larry Cooke led a resei-ve unit to 
HORNUNG SNEAKS FOR HRST IRISH SCORE the Indiana 32-yard line. % 
Football Review 

HORNUNG SMASHES FOR FIRST DOWN 
Purdue Spanks Irish 
by RAY LESCHER 
Noti'e Dame, Ind., Oct. 13—Purdue, led by pile driving fullback Mel Dillard and a spirited hard charging line, dumped the Irish 28-14 before 57,778 fans today in the Notre Dame stadium. 
Dillard personally sent the Irish down to their second defeat in three games by slashing and bulling his way for 142 yards, more than the entire Irish offense, and by scoring two touchdo\\Tis 
^n d setting up another with an inter­cepted pass. The Purdue front Avail ripped holes in the outmanned and out­weighed Irish line, allowing the Boiler­maker backs to gain 370 yards on the ground, totaling 27 first downs. This aggressive line play allowed Purdue to control the ball for 86 offensive plays in comparison to Notre Dame's 48. 
The Irish, led by Paul Hornung who 

A-ompleted eight passes in 17 attempts lor 115 yards, gamely fought back Avith a lightning-like flurry at the ^tart of the third quarter to tie the score 14-14. But the Boilei-makers struck back immedi­ately Avith a 75-yard march of their own and then iced the game Avith an­other score in the fourth quarter Avhen they controlled the ball for 10 straight minutes. 
 Purdue shoAA'^ed everybody they really meant business by taking the opening kickoff and marching 80 yards in 11 plays for their first scoi-e. Len DaAV­son's screen pass to Dillard earned Pur­due a first doAvn on their OAvn 31. Ken Mikes, Erich Barnes, and Dillard moA'ed the ball to the Purdue 49 in successiA^e ,^ne smashes. Dillard ripped off runs "*f 12, 4, and 18 yards to the Irish 15. 
DaAvson passed to Mikes for 13 yards to the two from Avhich Dillard knifed over and DaAvson kicked the first of four extra points. 
Midway through the second quarter Hornung's fourth dowTi and one gamble failed and Purdue took over on the Irish 
49. Eight running plays later Dillard broke through the right side of the Notre Dame line and Avent in for the touchdoAvn making it 14-0. 
FolloAving the kickoff the Irish moA'ed for their first score, moving 70 yards in eight plays. In this drive Hornung contributed a 16-yard jaunt in addition to completing four passes for 50 yards, the final one a seven yarder to end Dick Royer. Homung's placement made it 14-7 in favor of Purdue at the end of the first half. 
It took the Ii-ish a little over tAA^o minutes to tie the score following the second half kickoff. Hornung returned DaAvson's kick from the end zone to the Purdue 41. Frank Reynolds circled right end for nine yards and Jim Morse hit left tackle for eight down to the 23. Chuck Lima bucked for four and Morse swung around left end for eight yards to the 11. After an incomplete pass, Reynolds tore around right end for the score. 
Purdue dampened the Irish hopes by returning Hornung's kickoff to their 25 from Avhere they began a 75-yard march highlighted by a one yard scoring plunge by Bill Jennings. Again DaAvson mixed up his running plays, capitalizing on the poAver of Dillard, Mikes, Fletcher and Jennings. Only once was Dawson forced to pass and that was complete for 10 yards to end Lamar Lundy. 
The Irish Avere unable to move follow­ing the tie-breaking score and Hornung punted to the Purdue three yard line, the only punt of the game. Purdue's ground attack started right Avhers it had left off, before the Irish Avere able to stop the Boilei-makers on the Notre Dame 18. 
Reynolds and Sherill Sipes moved for a first down on the Irish 29. Hornung then passed to Sipes Avho fumbled and "that man" Dillard picked the ball out of the air on the 30 and raced to the Notre Dame 17. Short bursts by Jen­nings and Stan Eaton put the ball on the 13. Dawson, maneuArering to his left, suddenly stopped and Avent the other AA'ay, going to the eight where Ed SulliA'an, Avho Avas all over the field, making nearly 20 tackles, dragged him down. A holding penalty pushed Purdue back to the 28. Fletcher took a pitchout from DaAvson and raced down the east sideline for the touchdown. 
The Irish again led by Hornung roared back on their final drive, but again the breaks fell the Avi-ong way. Hornung returned the kickoff to the Purdue 38 on a beautiful bit of open field ninning. Hornung passed to Lima for 20 yards and a first down on the 
18. Hornung's next pass was inter­cepted on the thi-ee by Dick Jardine. Three quarterback sneaks by Dawson ended the game. 
Purdue's offense totaled 417 yards, only 47 of these on passes from Dawson. An old Irish nemesis, DaA\'son pi-oved himself an able field genei-al, striking the Irish Aveak spots in the line at the right times for firet doAVTi yardage. The Ii'ish picked up 251 yards, 129 on the ground and 122 in the air. The victory AA'as Purdue's seventh in the 35 battles betAveen the two teams. 
FLETCHER BOBBLES DAWSON AEHAL 
December 7, 1956 


Spartans Smash Green 
by JIM MERZ 
'•P-^-^ 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 20.—Dismal, threatening weather greeted the Miclii­gan State Spai-tans as they filed into the mobbed stadium at Notre Dame to­day, and an overwhelming avalanche of spirit from the stands threatened "up­set" in the making for the number two team in the country. But after an in­spired Irish team battled the Spartans to a 7-7 tie in the first half, the solid depth and expenence of the Spai-tans finally battered Notre Dame to a 47-14 defeat. 
After Notre Dame won the toss, John Matsko kicked to the Irish eight yard stripe, where RejTiolds brought it back to the 22. But three plays later the first Irish attack was squelched when Don Gilbei-t intercepted Hornung's first pass and i-aced back to the Notre Dame 
47. Wrapped in the delirious screams of the Irish fans, the Spartans couldn't move the ball, and soon lost it on a fumble from center. 
With seconds remaining in the first period, Notre Dame took over on their 
17. As the clock ran out, Hornung dashed 35 yards on his favorite option play. The drive continued in the second quarter, sparked by a 19 yard aerial to Morse. Then Reynolds carried Hor­nung's pitchout from the five yard line for the first score of the day. Hornung deftly added the point. 
Dennis Mendyk grabbed Hornung's kickoff and started racing 38 yards thi'ough the Irish defense, until the lone safety man, Hornung, barely tripped him up on the State 47. In eleven plays "Dennis, the Menace" teamed up with Bob Handloser, Pat Wilson, and Walt Kowalczyk to move to the Irish one foot line in four first downs. Then Wilson slipped over, and Matsko's con­version tied the scoi-e, 7-7. 
Minute s later. Peaks, defending against a Hornung ijass on the five, grabbed the ball from Morse's out­stretched fingers, and raced back with it to his 25 yard line. Stiff tackling by Sullivan, Hornung, and Lima held the Spartans until Jim Ninowski hit Art Johnson with a 29 yard pass. Johnson tossed to Martin who was brought down on the Irish three yard line when the half ran out. 
Michigan State lost no time in the second half, scoring within three min­utes. Mendyk, piling up his 15.7 yard avei-age, was the man slipping over left tackle and weaving 62 yards ahead of the Irish secondaiy for a touchdown. Matsko split the posts to make it 14-7. 
Notre Dame could go nowhere, and had to punt after three tries. The Spar­tans took the kick on their 18 yard line, and began their last sustained field march of the contest. Thi-ee pass plays 
' •( 
HINSLEY NABS IT 

moved State 55 yards, and short drives brought the ball to the Irish three, where Gilbert squirmed thi'ough for the score. After Matsko's kick the Spartans led, 21-7. 
Once again the Irish had to punt the^-. ball away, and Michigan State took over-on their 43 yard line. Mike Panitch struck hard through the center of the line, and steamed behind his blockers for 49 yards before Jim Milota desper­ately nailed him on the ND 18. Men­dyk hit Panitch on the Irish three with a sharp aerial, ending the third period. 
In the opening seconds of the final stanza. Peaks jimmied the Irish line for the score. A hard charging Irish line^ upset the bid for the extra tally, and Michigan State led, 27-7. 
But the spirited Irish were not out of it yet. After Reynolds brought Matsko's kick to his 21, he snared a Hornung pass on the dead run and dashed to the MSU 35 before Peaks caught him fi-om behind. Two Homung-to-Sipes passes put the ball on the three yard line, where Sipes bulled over for thijf score. Hornung's boot moved the score to 27-14. 
On the first play after Hornung's kickoff, Mendyk raced 67 yards for a touchdoAvn. Lou Loncaric blocked the conversion, but the score stood 33-14. 
Five plays later the Spartans scored again, as Harding intercepted an Irish pass and streamed 35 yai-ds to score. ,01 
After a few quick exchanges between the two clubs, Don Arend cut loose around left end for State, and streaked 65 yards for the fourth Spartan TD of the period. Panitch's conversion put Michigan State ahead, 47-14. The Irish had one last tiy left, but, as the game ended, Panitch intercepted Hornung's-. 
REYNOLDS SCORES HRST IRISH TALLY desperation pass in the end zone. -^* 
Football Keyiew 

LEWIS BREAKS AWAY FROM WOULD-BE TACKLER 
Sooner Blitz Wins Easily 
by JOE BRIDE 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 27—The white-shirted horde of Oklahoma Sooners achieved their football destiny here to­day by defeating an undei'-manned Notre Dame squad, 40-0. 
Previous to today, the only unfilled page in Sooner football lore was the one resei"ved for Notre Dame. Oklahoma 
^la d AU-Americans, National Champion­ships, Outland and Heisman trophy win­ners, a Coach of the Year, Bowl Cham­pions, and Big Seven Conference win­ners. But, they had lost twice to Notre Dame in two encounters. 
Now, they have beaten Notre Dame. For Oklahoma, there is nothing left to do on the gridiron. 
The Norman conquerors captured the 
J||^foti'e Dame stronghold with amazing ease, scoring at least once in every period by two quarterback sneaks, a pass, a quick opener, and two intercep­tions. 
The precision and ability of Bud Wilkins'on's adept machine surged to their 35th consecutive victory, a new collegiate mark. 
Nothing now seems to stand in the 

•Ivay of the Sooners assault on Notre Dame's proud mark of 39 consecutive games without a loss. It is only a matter of time, when their schedule is com­pleted, until the Sooners lay claim to the new mark. 
In addition, the Soonei's scored in their 111th consecutive game, and their feat ^ f holding Notre Dame scoreless, was the first time this had been done in 
December 7, 1956 
47 games. The last team to blank Notre Dame was Michigan State by a 35-0 score on Nov. 10, 1951. 
From the opening kickoff, the Irish stands had little to cheer about. Clendon Thomas ripped through the middle and Tommy McDonald galloped around the ends, and in nine plays the Sooners moved 55 yards to the ND 13. 
On first down, quarterback Jim Harris rolled out to his right, faked a run, and unleashed a 13-yard touchdown heave to right end John Bell. Harris' conversion was wide and the Sooners led, 6-0. 
On the kickoff, Notre Dame took over 
on  the 31, and  the Irish  began  one  of  
their  three  penetrations  into  Sooner  
territory.  
Paul  Hornung  caught  the  Sooners  

napping wt h a single wing shift, and Aubrey Lewis blasted over left guard for a first do\vn. 
Le\vis galloped down the right side­lines for twelve yards and Homung smashed through a vacant middle for eight yards. The Irish had their second first down and were on the Sooner 44. 
Pai-tisans had visions of a slambang offensive battle, and Homung and Lewis seemed ready to oblige. Capt. Jim Morse and Lewis picked up three yards over the middle, and on third down six, Morse, using the Sooners patented option run or pass, tossed 14 yards to Lewis who scampered to a first down on the Oklahoma 2G. 
Here the aggressive Sooner defense dug in. Lewis failed to gain on an attempted sweep around right end. Hor­nung's second down pass to lig^t end Gary Myers was incomplete. Fallback Chuck Lima picked up seven. 
On fourth and three, Homung s^ain called on Lima and the draw, but he was halted after a one y^rd advance and the Sooners took over. 
From here on in the Fighting Irish got stage fright before the national television audience and the game turned into a Sooner romp. The second Okla­homa score came when Sophomore quarterback Bob Williams, in his first game for Notre Dame, received a bad pass from center while attempting to kick. Steve Jennings and Bob Timber-lake blocked the boot for the Sooners. 
With only two minutes remaining in the fii^st period, Oklahoma had a first down on the ND three. Jay O'Neal cracked over guard for the score. Early in the second quarter, McDonald re­turned a Hornung punt 25 yards to the Oklahoma 37. Thomas swept left end for eight and took a pass from Harris for eight more. 
On four successive plays, McDonald hit over left guai-d for nine, over left tackle for four, took a pass over center from Harris for 17, and swept right end for six. 
With the ball on the Irish eleven, Thomas cracked thix>ngh the right side of the line, cut back and went for the touchdown. 
Before the half ended, McDonald add­ed an insurance score by stealing a pass from the hands of Frank Re3nioIds and running all by himself, 55 yards for the score. Harris converted and the Sooners led at the half, 26-0. 
At the start of the second half it seemed as if ND was going to take com­mand. In eight plays Homung directed the team to the Sooner 35. But Mc­Donald again stepped in grabbing a de­flected pass and stopping the threat. The Sooners then marched for their fifth score. 
On first down McDonald passed 49 yai-ds to Thomas on the Irish 34. Mc­Donald then picked up nine and Thom­as two for the fii-st down. Harris faked the pitch-out and swept left end for 17 yards to the 5. Thomas bucked to the one, and Harris took it over for the score. Hai*ris again converted. 
The final score came in the early minutes of the final period. ThtMnas, not to be outdone by McDonald, intercepted a Homung aerial and raced 36 3rards for the seventh Sooner tally. Harris converted and the score was 40-0. 
Sooner Coach But Wilkinson singled out the play of Ed Sullivan, junior center and defensive linebacker, follow­ing the game. He onnmented tiiat, "Without Sullivan in there for Notre Dame, our job would have been quite a bit easier." 
15 




The Weekly Operation 
by ROGER VALDISERRI 
.1/r. Valdu-^eyj-i, a '54 graduate of the University, has been Conch Brennan's secretary for the last three years. The foUoiving are his observations on a typical football week at Notre Davie. 
You've worked hard and long- all week but others have woi'ked longer and harder. Piles of letters, files of replies, tickets, phone calls, practice schedules, injuiy lists, doctor's reports, records of diagnoses, treatments and player lists, plane schedules for scouts and scouting tickets and hotel reservations and more player lists. You've assigned work to your two student assistants, conferred with the football manager, ticket mana­ger, business manager and the omni­present equipment manager, and you've received a hundred calls and placed a hundred moi"e, answered a million ques­tions, read a thousand wires and wired a thousand in return—and more player lists. You've mailed autographed foot­balls, autographed photographs and you've dug through record books to set­tle a fan's argument or prove another wrong, and satisfied a hundred more queries. 
Ah—and then you've welcomed Fri-
DOCTOR GREEN 

day because the tempo slackens and the world seems noi'mal again. But wait— you forgot to get a haircut, pick up your suit from the cleaners, your shoes from the shoemaker, buy some groceries and rush to the aii-port to drive some friends . of the University back to the campus. ^ 
Your Saturday morning tempo was set early with a mad dash to catch a 
Football Review 
THE WEEK'S WORK IN ACTION 

i-ji,ii»-i-._j-^i w._|i.^i •.!—^iv._J.m<^^-;jJ.^^^|;--g5gi^x^>x;>i^.^Vg«tf^':.'J'".;te^^^^ • • Bm II HI. 
^5even o'clock Mass, a cup of coffee, and a last minute check with the now hard­to-find equipment manager. You've greeted an anny of well wishers, friends, alumni, and friends of friends. More phone calls, last minute wires, sub­stitution charts, play charts, another player list and you're on your way to the stadium. Now you may get a mo­inents rest. But then again you're 
Wucky if you do. Rest is something you try not to think of. 
If the world outside has seemed like a whirling dervish it's now a pleasant relief to move among calculating hu­mans. Here there is order and bee-like execution and ant-like seriousness and— finally silence—a deafening silence which prevades the spacious locker room. It's an arrogant yet commanding quietness 
wvhich seems to defy intrusion, dare a .spoken word, challenge a dropped hel­met or the stripping of adhesive. An aura of gripping tension seeps fr-om the cold, sweating brick walls—^walls that have housed and sheltered some of the most famous warriors ever to wear the Ijroud green—and perhaps to those who now px'epare for battle these are hal­lowed walls. It seems to rise out of the 
^toried lockers—poor dumb, abused me­^norials—and it creates a seriousness of purpose. 
Finally the silence is broken by a fimi voice and all eyes automatically focus towards the blackboard. X's and O's are hastily drawn—short strokes indi­cating a tackle's block, longer ones a ball carrier's path, or 'a broken one the flight of a pass, modern day hiero­glyphics. All assignments have been 
Reviewed—perfect execution—and now— a few more minutes—and the game's the thing. 
Now the firm voice, now the verbal prodding, now the woi-ds of encourage-
AUTHOR CONVERSES 

ment and now the unanimous affiitnation of the day's goal. Screams and shouts, and frenzied antics, and frantic wavings, striped shirts, a whistle blast and now— the game's the thing. Your player list has come to life, the X's and O's are poised, the ball is kicked and now execu­tion's the thing. You watch the shoi-t strokes strike—or miss—the longer ones arouse you, or, if not long enough de­pi-ess you. The X's move or the O's resist—and the clock moves on and fate toys with emotions of a mad fickle little world raving, jeering, applauding, guided only by standards of skill mea­
 WITH SULLIVAN 
sured in space by cold, insensible steel, and measured in time by that division of infinity which man has presumed to regvilate. But away with this philo­sophical detachment—the game's the thing. 
The hustle and bustle finally ends and perhaps the day has been good, or bad; perhaps you've died a little or rejoiced, but whatever the results and subsequent reactions have been they are short lived because tomorrow there will be more player lists, and—a few dajrs after another game,—and that's the thing! 
IRISH BENCH STANDS FOR KICKOFF 
^ INTERESTED OBSERVER 
17

I December 7, 1956 
Navy Routs Irishj 33-7 
by JIM GOETHALS 
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 3—^With ranks torn and battered by the vicious, crushing onslaughts of two of the coun­try's football giants back to back, the Fighting Irish tumbled for the fourth consecutive Saturday at the feet of an injury free, determined and aggressive Navy eleven before some 60,000 drenched spectators in Baltimore Stadium. 
This game, another in the nation's longest continuous intersectional series, saw Notre Dame strive valiantly in the mud and I'ain to end their losing ways, and through outmanned, battle on even temis for two quarters. But the Midshipmen, driven by a victory hunger which had gone unsatisfied for eleven sti-aight years against Irish teams, un­mercifully ripped off three touchdowns in the third i)eriod and added another as insurance in the fourth to coast to a 33-7 win. 
Only a 27-yard dash by Bobby Ward Lewis ended up with a minus six yards in nine tries. 

The Middies, on the other hand, payed little heed to the soft turf and i-ammed the Irish line for 231 yards and added another 122 on 10 pass completions in 16 attempts. Most helpful in the display of Navy's offensive weapon wei'e speedy halfbacks Ned Oldham and Paul Gober who accounted for 106 yards of the damage to the Irish defense with their slants off tackle and devastating end sweeps. 
A nip and tuck affair took place in the first quarter with the Irish failing to capitalize on a 4.5-yard Homung to Lewis pass on the fiist Irish offensive play. Then late in the second period, Dick Lynch fumbled where Navy tackle Bob Reifsnyder recovered on the Notre Dame 18. From this point, it took the Middies just five plays to score the initial touchdown of the game with 
WARD OFF ON 27-YARD SPRINT 
in the third stanza prevented a second sti-aight shutout against Notre Dame. 
Navy's stout defense had little trouble stopping the Irish ground attack as was clearly indicated by the fact that Notre Dame's total rushing offense amounted to only 50 yards. 
Even Paul Hornung, Notre Dame's biggest single offensive threat, found the going tough in gaining only ten yards in six carries. Yet because of the soft going, he slipped to the turf several times when he tried to run. Even more surprising was the fact that Aubrey Hai-ry Hurst plunging over. Chet Burch­ett convei"ted to make the score 7-0. 
At the opening of the third quarter, Navy again took advantage of a break. Lewis fumbled the hand-off on the first play of the period and another alert defender, Tony Anthony, recovered on the Irish 44 yard line. With incredible speed. Navy knifed through the ND ranks for another score in four plays. Oldham toted the pigskin across with not a finger laid on him and in addition kicked the extra point to boost Navy's lead to 14-0. 
THE END OF THE LINE 

The Urish at this point became aroused and beg^n a bit of a scoring drive of their own. A Hornung to Lewis toss good for 38 yards placed the ball on the Navy 27, from which point diminu­tive Bobby Ward electrified the throng momentarily by scampering off ^efte^ . guard 27 yards to paydirt. Hornung'^ ;~ 
converted  and  the Irish  ti-ailed  14-7.  ?  
Navy killed the Irish spark by driving  ;  
65 yards  on  the ground in eleven plays  V  
after  receiving  the  kickoff  to  score,  f  
Hard-running  Oldham again played the  j  
part of  the culprit scoring  on  a  pitch­ ;  
out taken  on  the six yard line.  A key  
play in  this  sustained  drive  was  a  14  ,  
yard  Forrestall  to  GcVber  pass.  The  

point after touchdown was wide and th( ^ : score read 20-7. [ 
Following the kickoff Hornung at­tempting to put the Irish back in the game, tossed a first down pass into the awaiting arms of Midshipman Gober who coui-teously returned it to the Irish 
46. The clicking Navy offensive ma­chine then went to work. Headed by quarterback Forrestall who completed three passes in the drive series, th ^ Middies pounded the Irish defense for^ another tally to make the score 27-7. 
Again late in the fourth period, Notre Dame was victimized by a miscue of its own doing. Ward's fumble on a hand-off was promptly ipounced on by the Middies on their own 38 yard line. With former Notre Dame freshman Pat Flood directing the Navy charges. Navy's final tally, was produced at th«A expense of the white-jerseyed lads. This time it took 12 plays to score Avith the aid of a 15 yai'd penalty. 
After the game-ending gun had sounded, a glance through the misty and murky atmosphere of the stadium in the direction of the scoreboard revealed a tiTze story of the game: Navy 33, Notr ^ Dame 7. ^ 
Football Review 

• Pitt Hands ND Fifth Straight Loss 
by JOHN McMAHON 
Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 10—The Golden Panthers of the University of Pittsburgh today powered their way across the 

^^Notre Dame goal line twice in the second 
^period and twice more in the final period to hand the Irish their fifth straight loss of the season Avith a 26-14 victory. 
Pitt's "Corny" Salvateri-a, Ambrose "Bugs" Bagamery, and "Tiger" Joe Walton led the Panthers to victory be­fore a packed house of 61,000, who stayed to the last second of the spirited contest despite 34° temperatures. 
Notre Dame's All-American candidate, 

^Pau l Hornung, held the Irish spirit in­tact and paced them to what is probably the best game they have played so far this season. 
After a defensive first period, the strength of the Panthers, rated one of the top elevens in the East, ovei*powered the Irish as they c^hurned out 72 yards in 10 plays in the opening minutes of the second quarter. The drive ended ^wit h quarterback Corny SalvateiTa ^turning his right end to score ftom 11 yards out. Bagamery's kick was wide. After an exchange of punts by both squads, the Panthers again began stalk­ing the Irish goal. Salvaterra led the attack and this time saw Pitt's AU-American candidate end Joe "Walton drift unguarded into the end zone. He fired and Walton's diving catch netted Pitt another touchdown. Darrell Lewis 
A kicked the point. Behind 13-0, Homung and the Irish struck back. The Dancing Bear faded for a pass on the midfi'Bld stripe and finding no receivers open, shot through the middle of the line, cut to the right 
sideline and covered the 50 yards to the Pitt end zone. His kick was wide. 
The Panthers began to move again at the beginning of the final peiiod. Jim Theodore punched the Irish defense to score the third Panther touchdown after a 91-yard drive. Bagameiy booted the point. 
With 3:22 remaining in the game, Bagamery grabbed a pass and stei)ped in behind a ready-made screen of blockers and raced 44 yards to make the score 26-6. His point attempt was low. 
Again the Irish hunter struck back at the Panther. Playing before a home­town crowd, Bobby Ward, -5-8, 160-pound senior from Lamberton, Pa., took the kickoff on his own 16 and broke through the center of the Pitt mshers, headed for the left sideline and raced 84 yards for the TD. It was the first time that the feat had been completed since Notre Dame's Ail-American Johnny Lattner went the distance against Pennsylvania in 1953. Hornung converted and the final score read 26-13. 
Notre Dame won the toss and Hor­nung took the opening kickoiF out to the Irish 40. Pitt's defense forced Homung to punt. After trying the Irish line on three successive plays, Pitt returned the punt. 
Williams, who started the game at quarterback, passed on third dowii, but Salvateii-a intercepted on the Pitt 44 and raced for a touchdo^vn. A clipping penalty nullified the score. Five plays later, Dick Shulsen gi-abbed off a Salva­terra aerial and brought the ball to the Notre Dame 42. 
After a Hornung punt, Pittsburgh's second quarterback, Darrell Lewis, tossed to Cost, but Notre Dame's Aubrey Lewis leaped high in the air and stabbed the pass with one hand and carried it 23 yards before being dropped. 

The Panthei-s then took over and punched out four first downs before Wal­ton took Salvaterra's 10-yard pass in the end zone and the score read 13-0. 
Darrell Lewis twice let his kickoifs go out of bounds enabling Notre Dame to take over on the 50. Homung' danced back for a pass, but elected to try it alone and he raced the remaining 50 yards almost unmolested. His kick was wide and the half ended with the Pan­thers ahead 13-6. 
Like the first period, the third quarter became a defensive battle. The Irish threatened once during the stanza, driv­ing to the Pitt nine, but the Panthers held. 
At the beginning of the fourth period Pitt drove to the Irish four, where Theo­dore rammed over for the score. Pitt then scoi-ed on a screen pass to Baga­mery who raced behind a wave of block­ers for 44 yards. He kicked the point and the score stood 26-6. 
On the kickoiF, Ward grabbed the ball, churned his short legs past the Ktt de­fenders and broke into the clear for his spectacular 84-yard sprint. Homung missed the point. 
Pitt tried ito i-ecover and score again on the Irish. The game ended, how­ever, with a SalvateiTa pass roUing off the fingers of Walton on the Irish 15­yard line and the score remained the same, 26-13. 
WHITE SHIRTS TO THE RESCUE 
^ LEWIS FINDS TOUGH GOING 
December 7, 1956 




Tarheels Succumb, 21-14 
by PAT DeFOE 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 17—With Paul Hornung' and Jim Milota, playing in their last home game, Notice Dame's sophomore dominated football eleven pulled out their second win of the 1956 campaign at the expense of North Caro­lina's Tarheels. The game, played before 56,79-3 fans setting a new five game home attendance record, was in doubt until the closing moments when Hornung bucked over from the one foot line for the winning touchdowni and his third of the game. He also kicked three extra points, rolled up 91 yaixls rushing, and threw four complete passes for an additional 103 yards. 
North Carolina took the opening kick­off and marched to the Ii'ish eleven yard line where Lewis made the first of his two interceptions, returning the ball to the ND nine. The Irish wei-e unable to move in three plays so Hornung pimted to Sutton on the Tarheel 47. Carolina was forced to punt after three plays and Lewis returned it to the 16. Three downs netted one yard and Hor­nung dropped back in punt fonnation but instead he ran the ball around left end and raced to the Notre Dame 48. However the Irish were again stalled and an exchange of punts put the ball on the ND 35 as the period ended. 
On the first play of the second quarter Hornung i-an to his right, stopped and lofted a long pass to Captain Jim Morse who eluded a NC defender and went to the Carolina seven. Hornung and 
Morse took it to the one, and the big quarterback dived over for the score. Homung's kickoff was fumbled by Ed Sutton and recovered on the 34 by Notre Dame's Jim Just. Three plays failed to gain, and on a fake field goal attempt Morse passed to Frank Reynolds but he was stopped short of a first doAvn. North Carolina moved to the Irish 20, chiefly on the running of Sutton but Ed Sullivan picked oif an Emil DeCantis pass to stop the drive. The Irish were penalized to the seven but on first down Lewis took a handoff, cut outside his o\vn right tackle and raced down the sideline to the Tarheel 15 before being pushed out of bounds. Hornung and Ward got a first down on the three and Hornung ducked over for his second touchdown. 
After the kickoff Carolina moved 63 yards in six plays climaxed by Sutton's pass to Lariy McMullen in the end zone. Blazer kicked the point and the Irish margin was reduced to seven. 
Lewis ran the ensuing kickoff to the NC 37 but a Hornung pass was inter­cepted by DeCantis. Hornung then turned the tables, intercepting a Tarheel aerial as the half ended. 
North Carolina fought back to tie the score after Blazer recovered an Irish fumble on the 37. A pass interference penalty gave them a first and ten on the ND 39. DeCantis ran to the 21 and Vale to the 18. Hathaway, the quai-ter­back, bootlegged around left end, then lateralled to Sutton who continued to the 
SUnON JARRED BY JUST AND LEWIS 
SULLY PICKS ONE OFF 

five. DeCantis ran wide around the other end then cut back to go over for the touchdown. Blazer knotted the score with his placement. 
Notre Dame received the kick and moved to the 50 where Kemper recov­ered Homung's fumble. f^ 
Carolina was held and Notre Dame took over on its own 42. Another penalty put the ball on the 35 but Hor­nung passed to LeAvis who ran to the 
19. At that point NC contained the Irish offense and took over on downs. 
Sutton broke off tackle and raced to the ND 19. He picked up another two yards but then his pass was intercepted by Bobby Ward on the 17. 
© 

As the final pei-iod opened, sophomore quartei'back Bob Williams took over for Homung, who twisted his right thumb, and directed a backfield of Mi­lota, Morse, and Pietrosante to the North Carolina 24 in 16 plays. However on fourth down and five yards to go, Wil­liams rolled out to his right but, finding all his receivers covei-ed he had to run with the ball and was pushed out of bounds inches short of the required yard-® age. 
The Tarheels drove from here to the Irish 37 where a fourth down pass at­tempt failed and with 5:54 showing on the stadium clock Notre Dame took over for their winning drive. Ward scooted for nine on a quick opener. Then it was Lewis carrying around right end four consecutive times, for four, six ^ four and then seven. 
Homung interrupted- to carry for three, then it was Lewis again slashing to the 25 and a first down. Milota took over and moved the pigskin to the 13 in three carries and Hornung got five. It was Milotta again, barrelling to the two and then to the one foot line from^ where Homung bolted into the end zone.^ 
Football Review 
:m 

a fumble in sequence 

1. HANDOFF # 2. CONTACT 
3.
 FUMBLE 

4.
 LOST 



# 
> It 
;^--f---.y 
i^iii^ 



Bowl-Bound Hawks Win 
by JACK GRADY 
Iowa City. la., Nov. 24 — Before 

•36,632 fans, huddled in below freezing weather, the Rose Bowl-bound Big Ten champions of Iowa scored their first %'ictory over the University of Notre Dame since 1940 when they defeated the battered Irish today by a 48-8 count. In so doing the Hawkeyes closed their most successful season in 35 years. Their 48 markers was the most scored against the Irish this year, also equal­ling Oklahoma's 40—^i^oint margin of victory. 
After receiving the opening kickoff, Iowa "wasted no time in showing their offensive and defensive superiority, marching 75 yards in 11 plays to score after only five minutes of placing time had elapsed. Don Dobrino and quarter­back Ken Ploen, the only seniors in the Hawkeye backfield, gained anost of the yardage on the initial march, although junior Bill Happel's 22-yard run was the long gainer. 
The Hawks ran off four consecutive first do\vns before Ploen'- scored with Jiis slasliing off-tackle drive on a keeper play for 10 yards and the first of many touchdo^\^ls. 
Hornung took the following kickoff and returned it 18 yards to the Notre Dame 25 yard line. 
After controlling the ball for a series of downs in which their total yardage was a minus 19, the Irish were forced to punt from deep in their own end zone. Iowa took over on the ND 29 and follo^ving an incompleted pass and fiVe yard loss, Ploen raced to the one. On the next play Dobrino plunged over for the score, Prescott added the point, and Iowa led 14-0 vnth six minutes left in the quai*ter. 
At this point. Coach Foi-est Evashev­ski began substituting all his players. With almost a complete new lineup on the field, the Hawkeyes Dick Pi-escott kicked off to Aubrey Lewis who took the ball on his twelve yard line land raced back to the Notre Dame 27 before he was run out of bounds. 
Bobby Ward, Chuck Lima and Aubrey Lewis tbok successive cracks at the big Iowa line but could gain only yard be­tween them. Lariy Cooke punted to the Hawkeye 37 yard line and the Black and Gold from Iowa City began another march. 
Iowa's second unit gained most of the yardage in the next drive which was climaxed mth a 23-yard foui-th do\vn screen pass in the first ten seconds of the second period. The drive covered 63 yards in 11 plays, Fred Harris scor­ing on a soft pass from Ploen. The score was a costly one however, since co-captain Doii Suchy, who threw the key block on the TD play, was knocked unconscious and required hospitaliza­tion. 
After receiving the kickoff, the Irish began to show some signs of life, march­ing from their o^^^^ 19 to the Hawks' 28 in 11 plays, only to have Iowa's Dick Klein grab William's hand-off in mid air and return it to his own 37. 
Happel squirmed outside end for 15 yards to the 48 of ND and Dobrino banged for seven before Ploen rolled out to his right, decided to keep, and rambled 41 yards for the score. Pres­cott's conversion with 5:25 left in the half made it 28-0. 
Once again the Irish started to move, this time taking the kickoff on their own twelve and moving it down to the Hawkeye 20, where the drive stalled as the gun ended the half. 
After running a series of downs at the start of the second half, the Irish punted to the lowa twelve, and once again the march was on. This time the Hawks Avere ignited by Ploen's 18-yard run outside end. On thii-d doAvn a pair of good blocks sprung Fred Harris loose on an off-tackle play and Iowa had their fifth score of the game A\ath 11:25 left in the thii-d period. 
Upon taking the kickoff the Irish put on their most sustained drive of the afternoon. Lews took the kick on his own three and returned it to the ND 39. 0 Jinuny Morse and Jim Milota combined ~ to pick up two consecutive first downs, moving the ball to the Iowa 32. Chuck Lima added six and JMilota picked up the third first dovni on the Iowa 14. However here the Irish drew an offside penalty and the drive came to a halt on the Iowa five, where the Hawks took over on dounis. After an offside penalty moved the Hawkeyes back to their own ® one, Frank Geremia spilled Harris in the end zone for a safety, the first of the season for the Irish. 
After Harris punted on his free kick from the 20, the Irish needed only eight plays to move 45 yards for a score. Larry Cooke's pass to Dick Prendergast picked up one vital first doAvn, and on third down at the 14, Cooke pitched up the middle to Bobby Ward, who caught ^ it on the three and banged over for the lone Irish touchdown. Cooke missed the conversion. 
Iowa's sixth score came in the fourth quarter on a 53-yard run by Collins Hagler, after Happel had intercepted a Cooke aerial. Hagler also sparked Iowa's final drive with 8:39 left, though it was Marion Walker who smashed over from nine yards out for the score. 
Jubiliant low^a fans tore down the © goal posts just before the end, the offi­cials having to halt the game to clear the field with two seconds remaining. 
Notre Dame played most of the contest A\'ithout the services of their senior quarterback and All-American candi­date, Paul Homung. Hornung re-injured the thumb on his right hand midway through the first quarter and saw little action afterwards. ^ 
^ 
© 
Football Review 



Irish Lose Finale, 28-20 
by JOE NORTON 
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1 — The Fighting Irish closed out their most disastrous season in history today as 
A they bowed here to the Southern Cali­foraia Trojans 28-20. The loss gave Notre Dame a final record of two wins and eight losses for the season. 
Southern California had just too many guns for the Irish this afternoon and were able to outlast the spirited Notre Dame battle. Led by halfbacks Tony Ortega and Ernie Zampese, the Trojans overpowered the Irish on the ground, 
—^rolling up 314 yards to Notre Dame's 
^112. It was Zampese who sprinted 33 yards over tackle in the fourth quarter to mark \ij) the back-breaking touch­do^\^l. The Trojan line also deserves much of the credit for the victory, especially for their defensive play. The SC for­wards constantly hounded Irish quarter­back Bob Williams on his passing at­tempts and thereby protected the valu­
^abl e eight point lead in the fourth quarter. Credit for the greatest individual per­formance, however, must go not to any of the victorious Southern California stars, but to Notre Dame's great Ail-American back, Paul Hornung. Hor­nung ended 'a brilliant collegiate career here this afternoon, and even though the team had a dismal season, his indi­vidual talent cannot be denied. Oper­
^ ating today from the left halfback posi­tion, Homung played for 50 minutes with injuries to both hands and still con­
,»>^ ••'. • 
tinned to lead the team's attack and spirit. He ran from scrimmage for 24 yards and caught passes for 26. He returned two punts for a total of 45 yards and punted himself seven times for an average of 38 yards. 
Homung's most sparkling feat how­ever, was a 95-yard kickofF return in the third quarter after Southern Cal's third touchdouTi had blackened the hopes of Irish partisans. Rex Johnston kicked off for the Trojans and Homung took it on his own. five. He s\\'ung along the sideline, smashed through a cluster of would be tacklers at the 25, straight-armed a few more and outran the rest all the way to the Southern California end zone to put the Irish right back in the ball game. When he left the field toward the end of the game, Hoi-­nung received not only an ovation from the crowd but the praise of the Trojan team. 
The game was a thrilling contest from the start. Notre Dame kicked off and Troy's Don Hickman returned to his 34. A sprint by Hickman and a pass from Zampese to Jim Conroy brought the ball to the Irish 29. Hickman and C. E. Roberts banged down to the ten and Conroy then turned right end for the first Trojan score. Ells Kissenger made the placement and at this point it looked as if the Irish wei-e about to suffer another i-out. 
But the Ii'ish came right back to score one of their OWTI. Bob Ward fum­bled on his own 24 but the ball was 
WARD DEFENDS 

picked off in the air by Irish end Dick Royer who raced down the sideline to the SC 38 yard line. Three running plays and a pass from Williams to Bob Wetoska gave Notre Dame a first down on the 15. Hornung took a pitch-out down to the six and on the next play, Williams burst through the middle for the score. Homung's kick was wide and the score stood at seven to six. 
The Trojans went on the march again however, and Zampese and Ortega moved the ball down to the ND 15 yard Mne. 
C. R. Roberts then hit Hillard Hill in the end zone for the score. Rex John­ston kicked the point and Southern Cal led 14-6. 
The Irish were not yet willing to aban­don this one though, and Bob Williams sharply marshalled his forces into Southern Cal temtory. Alternating passes and line smashes by fullback Jim Just, the Irish quarterback moved his team to the Trojan ten and then pitched a strike to Bob Wetoska in the end zone. Hornung kicked the point and the score stood at 14-13 for the first half. 
Late in the third quarter the Trojan attack was about to stall on the Irish 
16. But iSC coach Jess Hill sent in Don Voyne "^vith a play and Vo3me ended up unmolested in the end zone with a Con­roy aerial. Kissinger added the point, to make it 21-13, 
Then came Homung's electrifyiriig 95­yard sprint and additional PAT to once more keep the Irish in contention. 
But the power and depth of the Tro­jan backfield proved to be too much for the tiring but still fighting Irish team. In the fourth quarter, Zampese bolted over right tackle for 38 yards and the score. Kissinger again added the point. The Irish continued to fight, but time ran out and the final score stood at 
28-20. 
HORNUNG LOOSE ON TOUCHDOWN RUN 
December 7, 1956 23 
/i-BPf*wei •uftttMf BR-^W'lBPP" BSHll 
 ^rW.. *i^,)t'*i-vt:^^<^J?!S !;i. 
mm 

66 i 
• 7 78 J3 54 64^ 59 JQ 44 29 4G ^5 75 3a ^ 
CM 
«*4^,.-«^.*j^-^ 

45j?535 ^ 9 iO 
76 V 
,/^^ 
. s5.^Mai!iet.<^B 



Notre Dame's Fighting Irish of 1956 
FIRST ROW—(I to r): James Milota, Gene Hedrick, Ed Sullivan, Dean Studer, Paul Hornung, Captain James Morse, John McDonnell, Joseph Bosse, Larry Cooke, Thomas Hughes, George Groble. 
THIRD ROW—(I to r): Donald Timm (Mgr.), James Colosimo, Harold Trapp, Donald Lawrence, Ron Toth, Frank Kuchta, Paul Djubasak, Jerry Knippenberg, Donald Costa, James Just, Pete Salsich, Patrick Dolan, Dick Lynch, John McGin­ley, Dick Shulsen. 
SECOND ROW —(I to r): Joe Lauerman (Mgr.), Jim Munro, Gerald Gerami, Bob Gaydos, Aubrey Lewis, Bob Scannell, Lou Loncaric, Thomas Cunningham, Robert Ward, Frank Stanltzek, Pete Noznesky, Dick Prendergast. 
FOURTH ROW —(I to r): Charles Lima, Robert Witucki, James Schaaf, William Owens, Carl Hebert, Joseph Budek, Charles Meno, Gary Myers, Richard Loncar, Norm Odyniec, Richard Phelan, Richard Beschen, Robert Williams, Richard Selcer, Joseph King, Charles Frederick, Louis Manzo. 
FIFTH ROW—(I to r): Charles Puntillo, Neil Seaman, Tom O'Brien, Angelo Mosca, Nick Pietrosante, Al Ecuyer, Robert Wetoska, Frank Reynolds, Ronald DeNardo, Frank Scott, Bronko Nagurski, Mike Dugan, Jack Murrin, Richard Royer, Dick Ciesielski, Kevin Burke, Eugene Saxon, William Hickman, Frank Geremia. 
», -9, ••», ^. 
^/w^
O 

I Brennan Answers .. . 
Is Paul Hornung the best football 
player that you have ever coached? 
Yes. Paul is a very fine athlete. He 

A is endowed with great natural ability and he works diligently to improve in any way possible. Along with these attributes he has the same fine balance that has been evident in many great athletes. 
Hov/ did he improve over last year? 

I believe that Paul added more finesse j^ to his quarterbacking this season in ^ directing the team. He also showed 
improvement in his passing. Becaiise of injuries to a good many of our back­field men throughout the season, he was forced to work with a different set of backs almost every week. Yet he made the required adjustments easily. 
Will he be a success in the professional 
football ranks? 

W 
Yes. Paul has every requisite to suc­ceed in professional football. He has the necessary speed and size, and he's an intense worker. There is no doubt in my mind that he will improve steadily and continue to play in the same fine manner that he has in the past. 

What position do you think he v/ill A play in professional ball? 
I would not attempt to presume another coach's judgment. Perhaps his pro­fessional coach will feel that Paul Avill help more at halfback, fullback or de­fensive halfback. The final decision on what position he will be at will depend largely upon the needs of the team that he will be playing for and on the avail­able personnel of that team. 
How much do you attribute this sea­son's poor record to the fact that you lost so many seniors due to injuries? 

Every team and every player needs con­fidence to win. Older players naturally have gained more confidence through experience, and it helps when there are ^ a few veterans playing alongside of a younger player. We did not have many seniors to start the season -with this year. And many of these, such as Groble and Scannell, Avere injured throughout most of the year. A team's strength is not weakened by one or two inexperienced ball players provided that ^ there are enough experienced men to 
" steady them. 
How much did the student support actually affect the team this year? 
I cannot say enough about the wonder­ful student support displayed this sea­son. Particularly since the Michigan State game it has been tremendous. It was heart-warming and encouraging, and I would like to take this opportu­nity to thank the entire student body on behalf of our coaching staff and the members of the football team. 
What do you think of next year's schedule in comparison to this year's? 
Next year should be at least as tough and possibly tougher. We add Army, who always is i-anked near the top in the East. The other nine ball clubs that we face next year were all tough this year, and we are looking for most of them to be either improved or as good as they were in '56. 
Who was the best team that we played against this year? 

We faced a fine football team every Saturday this fall. It would be difficult to single out any of them as the best we met. I would consider anyone of three, Purdue, Michigan State, and Oklahoma, as the best clubs that we played against this year. 
Who would you consider the best backs that you faced this year? The best linemen? 
The best backs we met this year were Tommy McDonald and Clendon Thomas of Oklahoma and Dennis Mendyk of Michigan State. All three had good speed and were difficult to defend against. The best linemen were Jerry Tubbs, Oklahoma's fine center, and Pittsburgh's Joe Walton. 
How much can the sophomores be ex­pected to improve for next season? 
Any ball player will improve to an ex­tent after one year of experience. A young man playing football learns some­thing every day that he is out thei-e. And as you learn and get that needed experience you naturally will improve. 
Is there any emphasis on recruiting players frohfi all over the country rather than from one particular area? 
We always have had balance in our recruiting. One year we may have ball 
COACH TERRY BRENNAN 

players from all over the country and the next year a number of them may come from the same area. Our re­cruiting has never been localized by intention. 
How much help do you expect from this year's freshman team? 
There are some good ball players on this year's freshman team and un­doubtedly some of them are goin^ to become excellent players. We expect some help from them next year, but we will not have to depend on them as much as we did on last year's freshmen. 
Did the sophomores progress satis­factorily this season? 
Yes. A number of them played quite a bit of football for us this year and we are satisfied at what they showed us. 
Do you think that at any time this season, the team developed o defeatist attitude? 
There was definitely no defeatist at­titude on the part of the team thixiugh­out the year. We had a good many injuries during the year-. And the young players made mistakes. But no one quit out there. 
What vyill be stressed in spring practice this year? 
Fundamentals. In the allotted time that spring, practice is held in, there can't be too^niuch.concentration on what may be called the intricacies of the game. Blocking and tackling will be worked on heavily. 
December 7, 1956 

•*^ft;«••^•K:ln•s^:"^ -V---.^-^ •liS:£i££i::ff« 
i^-=i-^-^2kai: r-"'--':^^'"---^v^^/ 
-• --' 
THE '56 COLLEGE FIRST ANNUAL 
i( PLAYER OF THE YEAR" O Jim Parker, Ohio State 
• 
SPORTS EDITORS' ALL-AMERICAN 
/• 

TEAM 
• . Michig^an r Pittsburgh ()regon/^tate , 7 Rflar^and 
Ohio State / : . Baylor Okfahbma 
. Okia Tennessee iVIississippi 
"COA'C^ OF THE YEAR" Bowden Wyaxt, Tennessee 
(Storjr on p^eSO) 

Miami (Fla.), 14-0, improving Purdue,'); 
Terry and His Aides 
by BRUCE HUOT 
Three years age* Terrence Patrick Brennan returned to Notre Dame to guide the football destinies of his ahna )iiater. After three seasons of crowd­])leasing football, the youthful Brennan has established himself firmly among the Irish's top coaching favorites. 
Originally appointed to the Notre Dame coaching staff in September of 1953, Brennan's main job then was tutoring freshmen. He gained this posi­tion by coaching Mount Cannel High School of Chicago to three consecutive football championships in 1950, 1951 and 1952. His high school pupils always seemed well-groomed in football fundamentals and were quickly adapted to the tougher college game. Brennan, now 28, accepted the appointment as head coach on February 11, 1954, one day after ill-health caused Frank Leahy's resignation. 
Terry seems to have been born for a football life. He started his career at Marquette High School in Milwaukee. An all-around athlete, he won seven monograms and captained the grid squad his senior year. A knee opei-a­tion before his freshman year in 1945, fitted Brennan for his first college foot­ball season. His knee, however, con­tinued to give him trouble during his four-year stint as a halfback for the Irish. And this is the primary reason why he refused to play pro football. Drafted by the Chicago Cardinals, he v.'as kept on their inactive list until he took over as Notre Dame's head football coach. 
While playing for Notre Dame, Bren­nan stai-ted in 30 of 38 games, scored 21 touchdowns and averaged 4.7 jfards per carry. Along with leading the team in scoring and pass receiving in 1946 and 1947, he competed briefly as a pole vaulter and as a junior won the middle­weight boxing title of the Bengal Bouts. A graduate from the A.B. College as a philosophy major, he enrolled at De-Paul University Law School. After coaching Mount Cannel in the after­noons, he attended night classes and 
TERRY BRENNAN 

subsequently received his law degree in 1953. 
When Brennan took over the Irish grid helm, there were questions of his ability, and whether or n6t he was too young to handle the job. These queries were answered Avith a 1954 slate of nine wins and one loss. Key victories came over Michigan State, 20-19, Southern California, 23-17, Navy, 6-0, and a 38-18 drubbing of Iowa. 
His task seemed more formidable in 1955 when he had only three returning starters. The Sunday morning quar­terbacks said the Irish were on the spot. But again Brennan answered them, Uiis time with eight victories and two de­feats. The Irish lost to Michigan State, 21-7, and Southern California, 42-20, but earned victories over highly touted 22-7, and rugged Iowa, 17-14. After the season Brennan was honored as "Coach of the Year" by the Washington Touch­down Club. More honors went to Terry when he was named coach of the East team in the East-West game that will follow the 1956 season. 
James E. Finks entered the Notre Dame coaching corps on February 23, _ 1956. ') 
After a sports career at Salem High School in 'Salem, Illinois, Jim enrolled at Tulsa University. He quarterbacked the Hurricanes from 1946-48. After gradua­tion, Jim turned to pro baseball. Playing only for one season, he started vrith Columbia, S.C. in the Sally League and then went to Austin of the Big State League. 
In the fall of 1949, Jim joined the*;' Pittsburgh Steelers as .a defensive hal f-back. From 1951 until joining the Irish coaching staff, he was the Steelers regu­lar T-foi"mation quarterback. In 1955 he led the National Football League in three categories, throwing 344 passes, completing 165 for 2,270 yards. 
John L. Zilly, a monogram winner on the Notre Dame national championship teams of 1943 and 1946, is another new .. addition to the Irish coaching staff. HeV replaced end coach John Druze, now head football coach at Marquette, on February 11, 1956. 
After lettering in 1943, Jack served 34 months in the Navy and Was dis­charged a lieutenant jg. .Returning to Notre Dame he played first string end on the 1946 National Championship team. Following graduation Jack turned to pro football. He served fiveicr­years with the Los Angeles Eams and " ' one season with the Philadelphia Eagles as a defensive end. Upon retiring from the pro ranks in 1952, he worked for the Industrial Distributing Corp. of Los Angeles until 1955. In these three years 
JIM HNKS 
JACK ZILLY 
Football Revienr 
BILL WALSH 

he also played bit parts in a few movies. In 195.5 Jack returned to football as assistant coach at Montana State. 
It was homecoming for Bill Fisclier when he returned to Notre Dame in 1954 as varsity line coach under team­
_, mate and now head coach Terry Bren­^nan. 
Bill started his football career as a tackle under Hughie Devore at Notre Dame in 1945. The followng season Frank Leahy returned from military service to Notre Dame and switched him to guard, where he won Ail-Ameri­can honors in 1947 and 1948. At the end of the 1948 season, he was voted the Outland Trophy as the outstanding 
^ guard and tackle in college football by the Football Writers Association. 
He captained the Irish his senior year and later was named captain of the East team in its 14-12 victory over the West in the 1949 Shrine game. The next August Bill was selected as the out­standing All-Star player in the Chicago Tribune's annual All-Star game. 
Playing iive years for the Chicago 

^ Cardinals, Bill was named to the All-League team t\\'ice. He was assistant manager of the Leland Hotel in Aurora, 
111. for one year before returning to Notre Dame. 
Bernard Frank Witucki came to Notre Dame as a member of the varsity coach­ing staff at the beginning of the 1955 season from Tulsa University. He had just completed two seasons as head foot-
w ball coach for the Hurricanes. Bernie, whose home town is South Bend, entered Notre Dame in 1930, but transferred to George Washington Uni­versity in 1932 and graduated in 1935. Bernie played football at both schools as a center. Following graduation, he coached at South Bend's Washington \% High School for eight years until 1943, 
BILL FISCHER 

when he enlisted in the Navy. In 1937, 1939, and 1941 Washington won the mythical state championship. 
Returning from the Navy in 1946, Witucki became head football coach for two years at Memorial High School in Evansville, Ind. He resigned to become assistant coach of the now defunct Chi­cago Rockets of the All-American Con­ference. After one year in pro football, Bernie moved to Tulsa where he sei-ved as assistant coach from 1949 to 1952 and head coach for the 1953-54 seasons. 
William Henry Walsh returned to Notre Dame on Februaiy 23, 1955 as line coach, primarily tutoring Irish cen­ters and doing a great deal of scouting. 
Walsh, Brennan and line coach Bill Fischer were teammates on the 1945­48 Notre Dame squads. End coach Jack Zilly played with them in 1946 and frosh head Jack Landry in 1948. In four years at Notre Dame, Walsh estab-
BERNIE WITUCKI 

lished himself as one of football's real iron men. He played center in every one of the scheduled 38 games and start­ed 27. The Irish went unbeaten three of Walsh's four seasons and won two National Championships. 
As center for the Pittsburgh Stealers Bill was the starting offensive center in evei-y game of his pro career. Three times he won All-League honors and the Steelers' confidence in his durability was so great that they had no other offensive center on the roster while he was a member of the team. 
Bill was bom in Phillipsburgh, N. J., and won nine letters at Phillipsburgh High. He captained the football team in his senior year and was an all-state center in football and all-state catcher in baseball. 
Before joining Coach Brennan's crew, John WaiTen Landiy was in govern­ment work for four years after gradua­tion from Notre Dame. He took over the freshman coaching job in 1955. 
His fine work in the 1948 Northwest­ern game was instrumental in keeping a three year unbeaten streak alive. Going into the foui-th quarter, the Irish trailed 7-6. Then on a 65-yard sus­tained touchdown drive. Jack canned the ball on nine of 12 consecutive running plays for a 12-7 Irish win. 
As a senior in 1950 he was the work­horse of the backfield, caiTying the ball 109 times for 491 yards, an average of 
4.5 yards a cany. That same year, against Navy, Jack picked up 161 yards in 21 carries to lead the Irish in a 19-10 victory. On the strengrth of these per­formances. Jack gained the reputation of being a "mudder." The Northwest-em game of 1948 had been played in the rain, and the Navy contest in snow and rain. 
Jack is from Rochester, N. Y., and prepped at Aquinas Institute. 
JACK LANDRY 

December 7, 1956 
' >-»-^ ':H''^~^>-'^7* 

WALTON HORNUNG COTHREN MAJORS MCDONALD KRAMER r 
The All-Ameriean Team 
by MIKE FITZPATRICK  
The  SCHOLASTIC'S  College  Spoi-ts  Tennessee under the master of the single  Walton are more publicized, he is equally  
Editors'  Ail-American  football  team  is  wing. General Bob Neyland, emphasizes  tough  on  defense.  Curt  Gowdy,  NBC ^>~,  
something completely novel, and  we be­  the  things  that  Neyland  did—blocking  announcer,  said  after  the  Minnesota  
lieve it  to  be every bit  as  accui^ate  as  and tackling and an almost super human  game  in  Avhich  the  native  of  Beaver  
any All-Ameriean poll taken.  desire to win.  Falls, Pa. starred in a losing role, "That  
The  33 players  selected  on  our  poll  is one of the most spectacular  one  man  
were  chosen  by  the  sports  editors  of  ENDS  shows  I  have  ever  seen.  Walton  will  
college  publications  throughout  the  Ron  Kramer  of  Michigan  and  Joe  S^^ ^V  vote for  All-Ameriean."  
countiy, and gives, what  we believe, is  Walton  of  Pittsburgh  were  almost  Lamar  Lundy of  Purdue and  Buddy  
a  true  picture  of  the  college  student's  unanimous choices at  the ends.  Michi­  Cruze of Tennessee are the second team  
All-Ameriean  team.  It  was  selected  on  choices  at  the  flanks.  Lundy,  who  at  
the college campus .where the interest in  SECOND  TEAM  ^"^  ^^  ^  giant  at  end,  was  a  favorite  
and knowledge of the teams and players  •  .  c  a  A  target for Len Dawson's aerials for the ( i  
should be the strongest.  t.""°y  ^  _­  Pui'due  p^gt ^-^^.^3 yg^rs.  
Over 27.5 schools were contacted, rang­ wj" "  j  St"^r^d  Easily the  most  spectacular  pass  re­ 
ing from such national powers as  Okla­ '99'"  ­ 5 an  ord  ceiver in Tennessee history, Cruze is the  
homa and  Tennessee  to  smaller  schools  c?^.^^  Q  A  type of player that can break the game  
like Slippery  Rock and  Emory College.  w  ,  ^  ^  p" '  c^T^  ^vide open on any play.  An example of  
We  found  everyone  extremely  co­ ^ °  f ?  p  !]^ h  cf  *^^  ^^ *^® ^°^^ ^^'^^  ^"^  victory  over  
operative and received many fine letters  ^  j  - r\a  c /  * J  Georgia  Tech.  On  the  game  winning  
of acknowledgment.  We believe that the  oroo'e  ­ ^  •  |  «>"  ora  ^^^^^  Johnny  Majors  passed  twice  to  
Sports Editors' All-Ameriean will grow  V^'^Il  u'g  slo^Car  G^^^^>  ^^^  plays good for  61 yards  to  
to  something  quite  big,  to  the  place  """^  •  ^°­  J:  '  the  Tech  one,  from  where  the  scoring ^^,  
which it desei-ves.  ^l!!..::::::::::^!::::::::::::::^^!::!!!:  ^as but a technicality.  ^  
rnAru  np  THP  YPAD  ^^"  Athletic  Director,  Fritz  Crisler,  ,.^,,,p ^  
COACH OF THE YEAR  ^^U^ Kramer  one of  the greatest ath­  TACKLES  
After building two successful grid em­  letes in Michigan history.  The versatile  John Witte of Oregon State and Mike  
j)ii-es at  Wyoming and Arkansas, Boiv­  East Detroit perfoi-mer played both half­  Sandusky of  Maryland  were named  the  
den Wyatt returned  to his alma  mater  back  and  end  for  the  Wolverines  this  first  team  tackles. In leading the  Bea- 
and  in  t%vo short  seasons  moved  Ten­  year.  In rushing, he avei-aged 3.8 yards  vers, Witte merited the pi-aise of  every  
nessee out of the football doldrums and  per carry and at  his other position, he  opposing coach.  A four monogram man,  
into the national spotlight.  caught  18  passes  for  353 yards,  an  he  averaged  over  52  minutes  a  game  
In  his  fii-st  year  at  Tennessee,  last  average of 19.8.  Two of these receptions  this past  season.  ^  
year, Wyatt took mediocre material and  were for touchdowns.  Sandusky also is big and hard charg­ '  
fielded  a  representative  team  with  a  "Tiger" Joe  Walton  gets  the nod  at  ing, a  standout  on  defense and  a  play­ 
6-3-1  record,  including  a  victory  over  the other end spot.  A deceptively fast  leading  blocker.  Jim  Tatum,  who  
arch-rival Vanderbilt.  This season, the  man  for  his  size,  he  was  one  of  the  coached Sandusky last year and is  now  
Vols  went  through  ten  straight  games  nation's  leading  receiver  of  touchdown  the coach at  North Carolina, says  San- 
without a blemish.  passes in both 1955 and 1956.  dusky is one of the best linemen he has  
Wyatt,  who  learned  his  football  at  Although  the  offensive  abilities  of  ever  coached.  
GLASS  WITTE  TUBBS  A^TSKO  SLATER  LEGGEn  

i^^m^^^^^^^^B 
LUNDY BRODIE ROBERTS BROWN ARNEH cmiZE 
m 
Stanford's Paul Wiggln and Earl Leg- school and consequently was one of the was the best all-around back on college gett of Louisiana State are the second most sought after prospects in the coun- gridirons this season. There is not a team tackles. Wiggin stepped right try, thing that Paul cannot do well. He led into a regular starting role in 1954 with the Irish in just about every offensive no previous college experience and has CcNrtKo department and was second in the all been there ever since. He has proved Named to the number one spot at cen- important defensive department of to be an outstanding blocker, using some ter is hard tackling Jerry Tubbs of tackles made. styles of blocks which are not oi'thodox Oklahoma. He has played outstanding The big senior from Louisville, Ky., 
wbut nevertheless eifective. ball for the Sooners for the past three turned the quarterback sneak into a Leggett, a native of Jacksonville, seasons both as a fullback and as a cen- potent offensive weapon, capable of a Fla., was an Ail-American junior col- ter. As a sophomor-e, the 6-2, 205 pound touchdown every time it was run. He lege tackle at Hinds Mississippi Junior Tubbs was Bud Wilkinson's number one ran the split-T as if it were made ex-College before going to LSU. At 274 fullback. At the start of his junior year, clusively for him, and he passed well pounds he is easily the biggest man on the Sooners lacked manpower at the cen- despite the poor protection offered by our team. ter position, so Tubbs was shifted there the Notre Dame line. 
.- John Brodie of Stanford, the nation's GUARDS THipn TFAM leader in total offense is the second team At the first team guards it is Jim ,, , c 4A- U- selection. His uncanny passing has ^Parke r of Ohio State and Bill Glass of 'r°f,?^^ t Michigan brought him to the top even though ** Baylor. Parker, a huge man at 6-3 and iT-u ^ T „ » L Stanford experienced a poor season. 
235 pounds, is our "Player of the Year." JJ"=^°^'' l r^lT^^ ^''^^^^^^ *^« ^ ^ "off-balance" passer He has been a regular for the Buckeyes ^'°^ ' • ^ Oklahoma j ^ collegiate football, Brodie consistently since his sophomore year and has im- tf"®' ^ t^eorgia lech threw for long yardage while being proved tremendously each year. Soft Su°ch C Iowa ""^^^^^ ^^ ^"^ *''' ^^""^^ charging line-spoken and easy going off the field ^on'Z::Z"jQBZZZ:Z'Pu^ ™^"­
Parker on the g^^ldIron is a changed p^^^^ H.B Mich. St. HALFBACKS man. He constantly makes opponents s "nk H B TCU fumble Avith his driving tackles and just ^' . c g """ 'w-- Two pint-sized speedsters are the se­as consistently opens holes on offense. °^'® ^^ *" lections for the halfback positions. They 
0H e is also one of the fastest big men in are Tommy McDonald of Oklahoma and football today. ^"d became one of the finest offensive Johnny Majors of Tennessee. Glass is another consensus All- centex-s and defensive linebackers in the McDonald led all backs in the polling. American this year, playing better than history of Oklahoma football. He was the bread and butter man in­60 per cent of the time for the Bears. Michigan State's John Matsko is the the Sooner's wide open split-T offense He has averaged eight tackles and eight second team center. Matsko is certainly throughout the year. His outstanding assists per game this season. ^"® ^^ *^® finest pivotmen in modem play is a mn or pass option after taking Running on the second team are Sam Spartan gridiron history. He stai-ted a pitch from the quarterback. He com­A^alentine of Penn State and Stan Slater eveiy game this season and handled pleted 17 of 24 of these passes in his of Ai-my. Valentine, the team captain, *^e kickoff and extra point duties for junior year for a phenomenal 70.6 Awas credited ^^^th 25.5 per cent of the *ISU this year. average. team's tackles and was uncanny on pass ^HADTCDBAZ-VC Tabbed as the best tailback in Ten-defense. QUARTERBACKS nessee history by General Bob Neyland, Slater is the first Army guard to Notre Dame's Paul Homung takes top Vol athletic director, is the other half make the Ail-American team since Joe honors at the important quarterback of our halfback combination, Johnny Heni-y made it in 1948. He received slot. Hampered by injured thumbs for Majors. Majors has done everything about every possible award in high the latter part of the season, Homung (Continued on Page 42) 
PHILLIPS WIGGIN MICHAELS GRAY VALENTINE MAENfZ 
SB:^ 

t •^ 
•<Ky» 
y^M 
ATHLETIC VEEP ^ 
Reverend Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, in addition to sei-ving as the Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, acts as 

Guiding Forces .. . 
the chairman of the University's Faculty 
Notre Dame football, which supplies all the other athletic teams at the Uni­versity A\nth funds for their opei-ation, relies on a complete netAvork of coordi­nated agencies on campus to make its often times exasperating production a reality. 
Each is efficient, each is well staffed and each depends upon the proper func­tioning of the others for its continued operation. Graphically, this can be seen in the past 1956 season. In July, ticket selling preparations Avere made for the ensuing campaign and now, in the after­math of the season, each is already con­templating an even more demanding 1957 football season. Except for the student occupied jobs connected with their operation, all these offices work the year 'round. 
With Notre Dame synonymous with football is it any wonder that "behind the scenes," too, is one of the best in the nation? 
PUBLICITY DIRECTOR 
For Charlie Callahan, director of Sports Publicity at the University, and his staff, the completion of the 1956 foot­ball season at Southern California meant the return to somewhat regular working hours and the already pressing job of preparing for news releases, etc., on the winter basketball season. Though his office also handles the publicity for the ten other major sports at Notre Dame, football by far demands the most time and the handling of it i-equires a hercu­lean effort by him and his staff. Since mid-Augrust when the football team be­gan pre-season drills, Callahan has had only one day away from his work, and that Avas a Sunday. 
The completed season marks the elcA'enth for Callahan as director. He stai-ted in 1946 after being discharged from the Air Force A\'-here he took care of public relations and Avrote a sports column for the base newspaper. His hectic job at Notre Dame requires the year 'round operation of his office and even in the summer months he is kept busy. One of his tasks then is turning out the Football Preview, or dope book, that awaits the students Avhen they ar­rive on campus for the fall semester. Besides his publicity Avork for Notre Dame, which he graduated from in 1938, Callahan Avrites a weekly sports column for the Sunday Visitor, a Avidely­read Catholic newspaper- that circulates 
by ED ROHRBACH 
throughout the country. Still, among all of these, he considers his most per­plexing pi'oblem acquiring football tick­ets for his numerous friends for a game which is sold-out. 
An interesting note, especially for this year, is the fact that his office is de­luged less for releases, photographs, etc. Avhen the football team is not so good, though an unprecedented season like the past jjresented him Avith the added task of helping to explain Avhy the Irish hadn't com^ through in their usual championship foi-m. 
One of the main projects of the Sports Publicity Depaitment is the Avrit­ing of six to eight page sports releases that are sent out eveiy Tuesday to 1100 of the most important radio stations and neAVspapers in the country. Every spring and fall the 1500 ND monogram Avinners receive the Monogram NeAvs, an infonn­atiA'e neAvs sheet concerning athletics at the university. Also, the colorful foot­ball programs sold at each home game are put out by Callahan's office. Then too, Charlie has charge of supplying the sportsAvriters in the 300 seat Stadium press box Avith statistics, line-ups, pro­grams and other information during and after the game. 
Helping Charlie is a permanent sec­retary, Dee Robles, and an assistant sec­retary, Eleanor VanDerHeyden, during the football season. Three student as­sistants, all juniors, Joe Bride, of Wash­ington, D.C., John McMahon, of Pitts­burgh, Pennsylvania, and Don Ruhl, of St. Louis, Missouri, also aid the depart­ment plus a group of other students AA'ho help in mailing releases, etc. 
«« 
Board in Control of Athletics. 
Father Joyce Avas gi-aduated from Notre Dame in 1937 and after his ordi­nation returned to the University as assistant vice-president in charge of business affairs. He became acting vice-jj) president in the spring of 1950 but his duties in this office Avere interrupted for a year AA'hen he traveled to Oxford Uni­versity in England for advanced study. Upon returning to the University, he resumed his former duties until he Avas elevated to the post of executiA'^e A'ice­president in June, 1952. 
Possibly the best example of Father Joyce's feeling toward athletics at NotreA'. Dame can be found in a speech Avhich he ~ gave at the testimonial banquet given for the 1954 Fighting Irish football team. That evening Father stated, "We can indeed be proud of their accomplishments on the gridiron. But Avhat is even more important, the University is proud of the qualities of mind and heart that characterize the vast majority of the boys Avho Avear the Notre Dame mono­
gram  on the playing field."  |Tv  
ATHLETIC  DIRECTOR  
Director ofKrause, more  Athletics popularly Edward knoAvn  W.  as  

"Moose," has been associated Avith the teams of the Fighting Irish dating back to 1931. In his four years at Notre Dame he became one of the few men in the history of the school to gain Ail-American honors in two major sports, ^^ football and basketball. ' ' 
After his graduation, "Moose" Avas appointed Athletic Director and coach of all sports at St. Mary's College in Winona, Minnesota. After completing five successful years at that position, he switched to a line coaching job at 
CHARLES CAUAHAN 
REV. EDMUND JOYCE, CS.C. ^ 
Football Review 
ROBERT CAHIIL 

letic equipment that must suit the de­mands of the various teams—^from fenc­ing and golf to football and wrestling— necessitates a knowledge of where and how this can be acquired for the least without sacrificing quality. His depart­ment's responsibility which lies in the framing of contracts gives Jones and his secreitary a year 'round occupation at his office in Breen-Phillips. 
BAND 
When the invigorating sti'ains of the Victory March pierce the still autunm air at a Notre Dame football game, the student body rises as one, no matter whether the outburst was for an Irish touchdown or to inspire a dejected team waiting for the kick-off. 
This fall, the Notre Dame Marching Band, 107 strong, achieved the un­believable feat of presenting a different halftime show at every home football game and at one stretch worked out a different routine for seven consecutive weeks. 
A week is needed to perfect a new-routine and Robert O'Brien, director of the band, states that approximately 2500 man hours are put into a new show 
In this, their most strenuous sea­son, the Marching Band performed these acclaimed halftime presentations:. "My Fair Lady" (Indiana), "Carmen" 
(Purdue), "Circus" (Mich. State), "Nutci-acker Suite" (Oklahoma) and "Tribute to LeRoy Anderson" (N. Caro­lina). And besides these five home ap­peai-ances, they made the student trip to Pittsburgh and played at the half between the Chicago Cardinal-Philadel­phia Eagle game in Chicago's Comiskey Park. 
The Irish Guard, with eight colorful marchers, that lead the band under the goal posts out onto the field this post season, has been a part of the Marching Band since 1951. Richard Kopituk, of Linden, N. J., was drum major. 
HERBERT JONES 
Holy Cross. He returned to Notre Dame in 1942 as a line coach and, that mnter, was appointed head basketball mentor. 
During the war he spent two years in the Mai-ines, sei-ving in the Philippines and the Solomons. He resumed his duties in 1946 and also became Assistant Director of Athletics. Krause continued coaching both football and basketball 

m until his appointment as Director of Athletics was announced in the spring of 1949. 
TICKET MANAGER 
Football season is the busiest time of the year for most athletic agencies at Notre Dame but Robert Oahill, ticket sales manager, experiences his piece de resistance even before the fall football 

^ sason begins. Not that he isn't kept occupied during the season and after­wards too, but Cahill has the thankless job of trying to please thousands of alumni and friends Avho all want tickets on the 50-yard line (thei'e are 222 of them) and many more who just want in to see the game. Each year requests are made for 500,000 tickets. Notre Dame has only 300,000 to sell. And this pened to be busy directing his charges in the Stadium, Cahill said Leahy was not available. 
^  season,  eight  of  the  Irish's  ten  games  
were sellouts.  
The staff  used  by the office  expands  
into  a  14-man  working  force  in  July  
when  the  ticket  applications  begin  to  
pour back in.  During the season this is  
pared  though  even  after  the  football  
campaign  tickets have  to  be  accounted  
for and a general inventory is taken.  
It  seems incongnious that a man  such  
0  as  Cahill,  who  is  so  instmmental  in  
Notre  Dame football,  doesn't often  get  
to  see a  game.  Saturday afternoon  the  
Ticket Manager stays in the box office,  
attending to any complications that may  
arise in  the  seating.  It  was  while he  
waited in the office during the first half  
of the memorable 1952 Oklahoma  game  
^  that  he received  an  urgent request  for  
^  Frank Leahy.  Since Coach Leahy hap­ 

"Then listen Cahill," said the man, "you tell Leahy they're going right through the right side of our line arid he better do something about it." 
Fortunately, the Irish played the sec­ond half, much better defensively and won the game. Immediately after the whistle Cahill received another call from the same party saying: 
"Cahill, you really told him. Yoi; really told him how to win the game." 

Robert Cahill often gets "urgent" re­quests for tickets from loyal alumni, sometimes in the early hours of the morning. An hour before this year's Navy game was due to start in Balti­more, he received a telephone call in South Bend asking him to get tickets for a group of men, who were calling from New York. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
To Hei-beii; E. Jones, a graduate of the University in 1927, falls the gar­gantuan task of managing finances and business for all of Notre Dame's ath­letic representatives. His official title. Business Manager of Athletics, spe­cifically includes arranging the teams' trips, ordering sporting equipment sup­plies, being in charge of the Stadium attendants and making up the school's various athletic contracts. 
To be sui'e the football team arrives at its destination on time and intact Jones has to aiTange schedules, ti-ans­portation, accommodations and see that the green shirted wrecking crew has the proper food under their belts to bring them up to their peak. The 900 attend­ants working at home games in the Stadium must be efficient and courteous to hold their positions under the Busi­ness Manager's direction. Buying ath-
EDWARD KRAUSE 
December 7, 1956 
JACK MCALLISTER 

EQUIPMENT MANAGEE 
To unsuspecting freshman athletes who come to the strange, long counter at the west end of the Fieldhouse, John 
W. McAllister appears as a wizened old gentleman who barks at them until they almost wonder if making the team won't be easier than getting outfitted for it. The upperclassmen laugh because they know Jack McAllister, in his 70th year, is doing the same thing he once did to than. And they know too, that as Equipment Manager of the University, McAllister's capability matches his age. 
Still going strong in his 30th year at this post for the Notre Dame ath­letic department, McAllister has charge of supplying all the school's teams with clean laundry, shoes and most of all, keeping an attentive eye to make sure eveiything is positively stationed at its correct place. 
Through the Equipment Manager, orders for athletic gear are put into the Business Manager's office. McAllister oversees the packing of the trunks when the different teams travel and also, in his year 'round job, his department is­sues footballs, basketballs, etc. for the games. 
Helping McAllister disperse the equip­ment are senior and junior managers who are well schooled in all the phases of the business by the time they b^ n to supply the spring sports with athletic gear. 
TRAINER 
Head trainer, Gene Paszkiet, is the man who takes care of the bumps and bruises that the Irish athletic teams suffer during the season. And this foot­ball season Paszkiet has been kept more than busy. 
Paszkiet, who is in his fifth year as head athletic trainer of the Blue and Gold, is a graduate of Notre Dame's class of 1950. Prior to returning to his Alma Mater, he served as head trainer for New York University for two years. While still in school he sei-ved as a stu­dent assistant under Ti-ainer Hugh Burns, whom he succeeded. 
His job is a tremendous one. The winding of miles of tape, along with the care and use of diathermy machines, infi-a-red and ultra violet lamps, whirl­pools and other quick healing devices are all part of his job. 
MANAGERS 
Football at Notre Dame is a big ma­chine. And working diligently behind the scenes of its operation is a group of students entrusted with keeping it in working order. These football managers number about 75, though only a minority of this group devotes their abilities to football at any one time. Each year from a large fi-eshman contingent num­bering around 40, the managers are paired off until, as this year, only eleven sophomores, eight juniors and seven seniors remain. 
Of the seven seniors, three have charge of the managerial end of the football squad. All the other student managers, except for the remaining four seniors who have charge of the other major sports, are under their supei-vision and tutorage. From the ranks of the underclassmen managers they select the students to succeed them. 
The first requisite needed for a foot­ball manager is an ability to keep the team outfitted ^vith essentials ranging from football cleats to palatable drink­ing water on plane trips. 
Heading the managerial corps this ^ j year is Joe Lauei-man, a senior in the Commerce school from Marinette, Wis. Joe is the beneficiary of a full scholar­ship for his last year at Notre Dame and was the head football manager over the past football season. He was directly responsible for the demanding whims of newsmen, autograph hunters and even spies that regularly descend upon the team. His chief assistant and equip-W ment manager Avas Don Timm, a senior fi-oni Dallas, Tex. 
CHEERLEADERS 
No one will deny that the spirit of Notre Dame is easy to arouse at a home football game, but for the six student cheerleaders, their job is to regulate it —^from igniting the student body into ^ screaming "hold that line" to leading '*' them as they lustily spell out the name of their school. Their implements are simple: several basic cheers and colorful acrobatic maneuvers. 
Co-Captain cheerleaders this year are Bill Keegan, senior from Rochester, 
N. Y. and Ed Healy, another senior from Alexandria, La. Under them are juniors Pete Roberson and Hugh Mc­Guire, sophomore * Doug Gonzales and f)3 freshman Bemie Davitto. 
Besides the five home games, members of this leather-lunged group made the ti'ips to the Pittsburgh and Navy en­counters. 
Three year old pedigree Ii-ish Ter­rier Shannon Mike III, now Avith two complete football seasons under his col­lar as mascot, is also a reflection of this spirit. Mike, under the care of Joe | ) Dierickx, custodian of the Stadivmi, rests in his pen there with his three puppies when not prancing on the green Stadium turf. 
MASCOT MIKE HNDS SEASON DIFHCULT 
34 Football Review 
Final 1956 Season Statistics 
TEAM PASSES CAUGHT 
Notre Dame Opponents No. Yds. TD 1
130 Points Scored 289 Morse 20 442 142 Le^vis 11 170 1
First Do^vns 193 92 by Ensiling 147 Lima 7 105 0 46 by Passing 40 Royer 7 85 1 
4 by Penalties 6 Ward 6 77 1 1708 Yards Rushing 2791 Lynch 5 54 0 431 Times Carried 548 Wetoska 5 57 1 
0

4.0 Yards per try 5.0 Reynolds 4 63 1264 Yards Passing 935 Myers 4 39 0 167 Passes Attempted 135 Toth 3 49 0 87 Passes Completed 66 Prendergast 3 29 0 .521 .... Completion Percentage 489 Just 3 25 0 
9 Passes Intercepted by 18 Sipes 3 24 0 160 Yards Interceptions returned 357 Hornung 3 26 0 
0

2972 TOTAL OFFENSE 3726 Studer 2 O 
0

0 1 16 
39 Punts 31 Munro 1433 Total Yards Punts 1219 
KICKOFFS RETURNED 
36.7 Punting Average 39.3 
No. Yds. TD 

129 Yards Punts Returned 173 Hornung 16 496 1 23 Fumbles 19 195 1
Ward 

13 Ball Lost 10 167 0
Lewis RUSHING 72 0
Morse TC Yds. Avg. 53 0
Lynch Hornung 94 420 4.5 45 0
Williams 3 _^ Lewis 59 292 4.9 36 0
Lima 3. 4.5 0
W Ward 38 170 Reynolds 2 33 Lima 39 157 4.0 27 0
McDonnell 1 Morse 48 148 3.0 Wetoska 1 19 0 Milota 25 99 4.0 Just 1 17 0 Just 27 96 3.6 Milota 1 14 0 Reynolds 20 76 3.S 
3.5 PUNTING 
Studer : 18 63 
Yds. Avg.

Williams 22 46 2.0 No. Hornung - 33 1242 37.6 
Royer 0* 39 Cooke 4 
155 38.S 

Pietrosante 8 27 3.4 
36 36.0 

Morse 1
^ Sipes 5 20 4.0 Odyniec 6 19 3.3 
PUNTS RETURNED 
McDonnell 2 10 5.0 
No. Yds. TD 

Cooke 4 10 2.5 
Hornung 4 63 0 Lynch 14 10 0.7 
Lewis 5 46 0 Selcer 2 6 3.0 
Morse — 1 12 0 
" Ran with teammate's fumble. 

Lynch ... 9 8 0 
PASSING 
SCORING 

Att. Comp. Had Int. Yda. TD Pet. 
TD PAT Pts.

Hornung Il l 59 13 917 3 .532 
Homung 7 14 56 A Williams 31 16 4 197 1 .516 
Ward 3 0 18 Morse —. 7 5 1 68 P .714 
Lewis 2 0 12 Cooke 12 6 0 63 1 .500 
Reynolds 2 0 12 Milota 2 1 0 19 0 .500 
Morse 1 0 6Lewis 0 0 0 0 .000 
Royer 1 0 6
Ward 0 0 0 0 .000 
Sipes 1 0 6 PASS INTERCEPTIONS Williams 1 0 6 
No. Yds. 
Wetoska 1 0 6 
Lewis 3 39 Safety vs. Iowa 2 Hornung 2 59 Shulsen 1 12 OPPONENTS' FUMBLES RECOVERED Sullivan 1 11 Just (2), Ecuyer, Hedrick, Levris, Myers, Royer, Studer, Ward 1 4 O'Brien, and Burke. Williams 1 30 TACKLES Lawrence 0* 5 
(Leaders only and includes assists) Sullivan (79), Homung^ 
* On lateral from Hornung (55), Nagurski (52), Ecuyer (46), Lewis (44), Hedrick' (41), Shulsen (37), Geremia (35), Reynolds (26), Wetos&a 

PASSES BROKEN UP 

(Leaders only) Hornung (7), Lynch, Morse, Reynolds, Ward,  (25), Gaydos, Morse and  Lima  (23), Just  and  Myers  (22),  
and Lewis  (2).  Mosca  (21), McGinley and Royer (18).  
December  7,  1956  3J  

TIME OUT 
Looking back at the last ten weeks, even the most avid Irish fan has to admit that there hasn't been too much reason for joy, and perhaps even a little justification for remorse. However, this has not been the case as far as the student body is concerned. I think that everyone connected with the University should be commended on the spirit shown this season, proving that there is really something distinct about the spirit of Notre Dame, and gi\nng ample proof that we don't back our teams because they are winner's but because they are OUR teams. Many people were looking at us this year and I believe" that we have passed the acid test. 
A week after the Oklahoma catastrophe, we received a letter from two girls who had visited the University for the first time. These girls were neither sentimentalists nor radicals about Notre Dame before that weekend. The following is an excerpt from that letter. 
"We arrived back safe and sound, but hardly happy to be back. If the University of Notre Dame ever stands in need of a press agent, it has two of the most enthusiastic it can ever find in us. Notre Dame is an experience that every college girl should be allowed to have—it is simply mai-\'^elous. We just can't say what it is about ND—it is just a very warm and glowing atmosphere that penneates the whole University. We can't remember seeing an un­smiling face—and the enthusiasm, noise and excitement of that i-ally. Well—I guess you understand what we mean. Then of course we think that the constant awareness of Christ and Our Lady has something to do with it, too. Perhaps you there are so close that you don't notice it— but even the presence of a crucifix wherever you go is quite a significant thing to an outsidei-. It somehow symbolizes that unexplainable "feeling" of Notre Dame. I guess that the most logical conclusion that one can draw about this different "feeling" is that the University itself lives and breathes—and every breath it di"aws is the gift of every one of the wonderful people that is a part of Notre Dame." 
To move from this idea a little, it is Tyler's opinion that although the schedule is tough next year, the Ii-ish should wind up with a very good record, certainly in the Top Ten. With some 25 lettermen returning Coach Bi-ennan cei-tainly has the nucleus around which to build his ball club. Also in our favor is the fact that while the fi-eshman team should g^ive a number of players to the varsity, Brennan will not have to depend on them as he had to depend on last year's freshman team. We look for next year's Irish to finish with no worse than an eight and two record. 
The brightest spot in our rather drab winter was Paul Hornung. Paul, although hampered by two dislocated thumbs, lived up to his reputation as one of the best in Irish history, even though he was playing on a sub-par Irish squad. As Lariy Cooke so aptly put it, Paul graciously dimmed his chances for All-American rating to aid the team in any way possible, play­ing fullback in the latter stages of the season, although he was unaccustomed to that position. He did this Avillingly because he thought that it would aid the team. He was undoubtedly the best all-around offensive back in the country and cei-tainly the best defensive back that we have seen this season. 
It is hard for us to see how certain national news outlets failed to place Paul on their All-America first team. He did everything that was asked of him and then some. He was outstanding against the best football teams in the country. He was an All-American all the way—John Glavin. 
€ 
Football Review 

Weekend Visitors 
O 
a  
o  ARRIVAL Karen Buescher and Margie Moore, lovely ladies from Wellesley CoUc^ visited Tom Sabo and Jack Seiner, both juniors here at Notre Dame, over the Oklahoma weekend. Their brief stay is presented here in a photographic essay by Kobert J. Early  

ON CAMPUS 
•B^n 
m 
FROM AUBREY 

DAYTIME RALLY 
PREPARATION 
#

THE DANCE 
Football Review 

THE GAME 
o 
TRADITION 

December 7, 1956 
^ 
ON THE AIR 
IN THE CAF 
^ 
. ONE LAST LOOK 
Football Review 
.. .\...<Z.--i.-.**•': 

Varsity Hopefuls 
by JIM GOETHALS 
With Notre Dame's vai-sity facing an 
) even more rigorous schedule next season, much weight lies on this year's freshman squad to adequately supply much needed depth and possibly a couple of starters. 
In coping with this problem. Jack Landry, freshman coach and foiTner Irish halfback-fullback of 1948-50 has worked diligently out on the practice field for the past three months in an attempt to develop the needed talent. 
^ The weekly program for the first year men who number around 40 has, among other things, included practicing the basic blocking and tackling chores, scrimmaging against the varsity both on offen.se and defense, and many timc3 
FRESHMAN COACH JACK LANDRY 

engaging in a full scale intersquad scrimmage of their own on Friday after-t^ noons. 
In sizing them up. Coach Landiy is noncommittal as he points out, "It is very difficult to evaluate any gi-oup of freshmen who have not known game conditions and pressure and are but three months into their freshman year. That there is talent there will not be known until next September 28 in their 

^ first game." 
~ "Naturally though," Landry con­tinued, "we are hoping that this squad really has it, and judging from their im­provement in the past three months, they could very well be the group we are looking for to plug the gap." 
An evaluation of talent at each posi­tion appears to indicate that the 9 recruits have good size, especially at 
December 7, 1956 
the tackle and end positions where size 
is advantageous. 
The key position that has to be filled 
next year is the one vacated by All-
American Paiil Hornung and his undei­
study Lan-y Cooke. 
However, one name, that of George 
Izo, has been frequently mentioned in 
the past few weeks both on and off 
campus to possibly relieve Coach Bren­
nan of this worry. Izo, a solid 6-2, 
20.5-pound threat from Barberton, Ohio, 
is a good passer and runner and as 
Landry says, "He has tremendous poten­
tial and could help us very much next 
year. We hope he develops into a good 
football player." Also listed as top pros­
pects for the signal-calling role are Don 
White from Haverhill, Mass., and Henry 
Wilke, a 6-0, 200 pounder from Hamil­
ton, Ohio. 
At halfback, the most impressive can­
didates to date have been Pat Healy, 
a 6-1, 212-pound prospect from Balti­
more, Pat Doyle from Sioux City, Iowa, 
Tom Healey from Davenport, Iowa, and 
Tony Sanfilippo from North East, Pa. 
The leading candidates at fullback, 
which has been a problem child for the 
Irish since the depai'ture of Don 
Schaefer, are Bob Eini from Cleveland 
and Jim Crotty, who is a former team­
mate of Bronko Nagurski, Jr. at Inter­
national Falls, Minn. High School. Both 
are under six feet and weigh in at 185 
pounds. 

Size pretty well describes the best all-around end prospects which include Monty Sickles, a husky 6-4, 220-pounder from! Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Mike Graney, the 6-5, 225-pound giant foot­ball-basketball ace from Hammond Noll High School here in Indiana. Providing the stiff competition at this position, however, are Ollie Flor who hails from Seattle, Wash., Joe Biasatti from Dal­las, and Mike Lodish from Detroit. 
Bolstering next yeai-'s varsity tackle slot ^%ill be such timber as Bob Nico­lazzi, 6-2, 215 pounds from Kenosha, Wis., Ken Adamson, 6-2, 200 pounds from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Mike pounds from St. George in Evanston, 111., Mike Gorham, 6-3, 220 pounds from Wilkes Barre, Pa., Don McAllister, 6-3, 225 pounds from St. Xavier in Louis­ville, and Bob Hughes, 6-2, 220 pounds from Grand Ridge, 111. 
At ,ths guard slot, where the Irish are especially hurting, the prospects are not quite as big as the tackles but are just as ready and willing and able. 
Coach Landry gave special mention of such candidates as Albin Sabal, a 5-11, 205 pounder from Chicago, whose brother played for Purdue this past sea­son, Ed Muehlbauer, standing -5-10 and weighing 220 pounds from Canisius High in Buffalo, N. Y., and Bob Pietr­zak, a 6-2, 215-pound competitor fix)m Detroit. Also deserving mention is Paul Loop, a 6-1, 208-pound prospect from Tulsa, Okla. 
A tough battle has been waged for the "best center" role between Dave Hurd and Bob Scholtz. Hurd stands 6-2 and weighs 215 and hails from Three Rivers, Michigan, while Scholtz, a native Tulsan, stands 6-2 at 230 pounds. Also very much in the running for the middle of the line post are Jack Siffei-man, a Chicago lad, and Bob Cor­son, of Manistique, Mich. 
The heaviest man on the squad is Gary Steckler from Ville Platte, La., who is a man-sized 260 pounder though only 5-10. 
Although these candidates have been given special mention by Coach Landry at this point, this does not mean that the others are completely out of con­tention. As has been the case in many years at Notre Dame, occasionally a player overlooked as a . freshman de­velops into a later star. 
Two Legs, Iw. 
SUBURBAN COATS! All Wool Quilted lined Toggle Fastener or Leather Buttons 
$19.95 
100% WOOL FLANNEL SLAX Ivy Model or Regular 
$10.75 
118 So. Mich. St. 
Nationally .Advertised Watches—Diamonds—^Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving 
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana 

-. j 
All-American Team ^

No pipe mixture atgosipri^ 
(Continued from Page 31) 
asked of him in leading his team to an 

can match ||Q|J0^Y 
We proved it and so can you 
A sample of Holiday Pipe Mixture in a plain wrapper was shown to the custom blender in a nationally famous tobacco shop. "'Can you duplicate this tobacco?" he was asked. After careful examination, he said, frankly, that he couldn't. Although he could identify the types of tobacco used and could supply them in a S6 a pound mix­ture, /le couldn't guess the secret of the blend! You can verify Holiday's matchless flavor in a much easier way — smoke a pipeful. Money back for the pouch flap if you don't agree. 

-f LARUS & BROTHER COMPANY, INC., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
I 
% 
:% 
Custom blended More men every year switch to Holiday, because it contains these five famous tobaccos skillfully 
for mildness 
blended into a mixture of un­equalled flavor, aroma and mild­ness. Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and aroma, to make Holiday America's finest pipe mixture. Try a pipeful—enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma— and see for yourself why more and more men are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke. 

the nation's NEW pleasure smoke 
AMEftlCA'^ FINEST PIPE MiXTURE.^Cahada's Rhesf Tool 
42 

l^»_,JJJ.,^_i J lA A«^»'".W')»-". ^,jU<i.J;»^'^M-VltS.".''i.*t-WJ.'.<'J i:-J.-*!.--. 1%.--'^'^­
undefeated season. Coach Bowden Wyatt's single wing offense is based around Majors' ability to successfully run the pass-run option and Johnny has perfonned it magnificently. 
Jim Brown is our second team half-^ back. The Syracuse speedster, who is*--' also a starting guard on the Orange bas­ketball team, ranks as the best ninner in the East. He scored 109 points on 34 touchdoAvns and 22 extra points, and averaged 6.2 yai-ds per carry \vhile ac­cumulating 986 yai-ds. 
Jon Amett of Southern California gets the other halfback position. Arnett played in only five of the Trojans games due to the eligibility scandal, but even^ ^ so, was rated one of the best in the nation. His own coach, Jess Hill, says there is none finer than speedy Jon. 
FULLBACKS 

Paige Cothren of the University of Mississippi certainly deserves his rank­ing as the number one fullback. Wally Butts of Georgia calls him the best blocking fullback that he has seen in _ many years. This year he tied the mod- v. em college record of six field goails in one season and also tied the single game record with three against Vanderbilt. 
Southern Cal's junior fullback, C. E. Roberts gets the second team nod. He is probably the most explosive runner in collegiate football. He led the Trojans in rushing ^vith a 6.4 average. He ranked one-two wth "Jaguar Jon" Amett in total offense and was second in scoring with 36 points. He led the club in kick-^• off returns returning eight for 217 yards. 
Follo-sving are listed the players w^ho are the honorable mention choices. These men figured heavily in the voting but did not receive enough votes to break into the top three teams. 
ENDS: Lopata (Yale), Gilliam (Iowa), Leahy (Colorado), Frick (South Carolina). 
TACKLES: Hobert (Minnesota), Kar-e ras (Iowa), Pollock (Pitt), Gordy (Ten­nessee), Vereen (Georgia Tech). 
GUARDS: Harris (UCLA), Currie (MSU), Scorsone (Pitt), Davis (Mary­land), Maxime (Auburn), Stapp (Colo­rado) . 
CENTERS: Szvetecz (Anny), Ma­theny (UCLA), Owseichik (Yale), Whitmire (Navy). 
QUARTERBACK'S: Benham (Colum­bia), Plum (Penn St.), Pleon (Iowa). 
HALFBACKS: Thoma s (Okla.), Woodson (Illinois), Wells (Clemson), McKeiver (Northwestern). 
FULLBACKS: Hermstein (Michi­gan), Bayuk (Colorado), Pardee (Texas A&M), Borstad (Minnesota), Pricer (Okla,), Kyasky (Army). 
Football Review 

i'-tCr J.?:*-?^--. ,1 .•.Wi»i]»wi aaaiK 
^..K^,MJ-^«,^.^^>ik.''J--.^'^SSii.','-r-^h;iM:if.iArT:iJ-!^.1^'.t'
•t».5>..Vga.av!V?-hv:-A*->-.»'^ 

rish Open Schedule Against Purdue Sept. 28; Military Academy Returns After Long Absence 
The football schedule for the 1957 sea­son remains essentially the same as this year's with one exception, Army replac­ing North Carolina. The order in which the games Avill be played also is some­
^vha t different. 
The Irish open their 69th season at Lafayette, Indiana, September 28, against the Boilermakers of Purdue. This year the downstate rivals crushed the home to\vn boys by two touchdo\vns due mainly to the passing of Len Daw­son, their brilliant quarterback. Next season Dawson won't be around, nor Avill his favorite pass catchers, Lamar 
^Lundy and Bob Khoenle. The Boiler­makers will be lacking thi'ough the air for the first time since 1950 and the era of Dale Samuels. 
Bob Clasey and Ed Voytek, the start­ing guards this year, also will graduate come spring, leaving three men in­cluding Neil Habig, on the line and thi'ee men in the backfield as the nucleus of the '57 squad. 
Probably the strongest point of the 

^'57 Purdue team will be the backfield. Tonmiy Fletcher and Erich Barnes, the halfbacks, have good speed, and Bames at times this season di'ove like a full­back. Mel Dillard, playing in the middle of the backfield, can go either way and is a tough man to stop on the third down four-to-go situations. 
The home season begins October 5, with the third meeting of the present series with Indiana. The Hoosiers lose 
wl4 lettermen this year to graduation including standout quarterback Gene "Chic" Cichowski, fullback Bob Fee and end Brad Bomba, and prospects for fill­ing these holes look bleak. 
NED OLDHAM Navy halfback 

In what at best could be called a so-so season, Jim Powell seemed to be a bright spot in the backfield. Operating at right half he is very quick and with his 200 pounds poses a thi-eat of the long run eveiy time the Hoosiers break out of the huddle. His counterpart at left half is Willie Jones, a quick little scatback who can run wild in a broken field. Both have that break-away potential, but potential doesn't win ball games as this year's squad found out. 
In the third game of the season the Irish meet one of their all-time rivals when they play the men from the United States Militai-y Academy. The game will be played in Philadelphia on Oct. 12. 
In 34 previous encounters the Irish have won 23, lost 7 and tied 4. Three of those ties in 1922, 1941, and 1946 were scoreless. 
Aimy at times this season showed signs of tremendous power and generally their oifense was rated as very good. Their defense however never reached the peak which was expected. 
Back at right guard will be Stan Slater starting his third season for the Cadets. Coach Earl Blaik said that: "Slater is one of the finest guard prospects in Ai-my football history." 
Probably the boy the Army will miss most is Ed Szvetecz, their center. A good blocker and a fieiy defender he captained the team last year. Look for Army to rank as a national power next season. 
The Irish have an open date on the weekend of the 19th, but the following week on October 26, they play Pitts­bui'gh at Notre Dame. 
The Jungle Gats lose their whole start-
NEIL HABIG Purdue center 

ing backfield and all but two men on the line. Charlie Brueckman at center and Dan Wisniewski at right guard are the regulars returning. 
The biggest losses to the club are the graduations of Corny Salvaterra, con­sidered by some the best quarterback in the East this season, and Joe Walton, their brilliant All-American end. 
The Panthers lost heavily from gradu­ation, so next year should be more of a rebuilding season than a winning one. 
On November 2, Notre Dame takes on the United States Naval Academy at home. The Middies lose only five men through graduation, two in the back­field and three on the line. 
Chief among those departing are Wil­son Whrtmire, the center, and Earle Smith, end and captain, but Eddie Erde­latz won't have to worry about experi­ence. At halfback Ned Oldham will be playing his third year for the Middies. The return of John Kanuch, Tony An­thony, and Tony Stremic keep the left side of the line intact. 
The Middies, like the Army, should rank as one of the big powers in the East and the country. 
On November 9, the Irish journey to East Lansing, Michigan, to engage in battle Avith the Spartans of Michigan State. The Spartans are always tough on the Irish, having beaten them five times in the last six meetings. 
Again next year the Si>artans are loaded. From the first two strings of the team which this year beat the Irish 47-14, Coach Duffy Daugherty has six­teen returnees. Also to add to the Notre Dame woes is the report that State has come up with the best freshman team in the Midwest. 
The returning lettermen who should 
(Continued on Page 46) 
CLENDON THOMAS Oklahoma halfback 

December 7, 1956 
W 

Noire Dame Miniatures for Your Sweetheart 
FACETED 
BUFF TOP 
STONE SET 

SET C.^ 0 
STONE REGULAR ^ONTO. 

-— ­
BAND BAND 
"3= V EV, FACETED 5-CNE SET R NG 
i^yl'^T^ 
-'^Atf.S 

'•-* ^* W 
SAPPHIRE CENTER ^ DIAMOND DIAMOND OVAL CLUSTER 
V Ew R SG 
TC= VitW RING ro = 
CHRISTMAS 1956 

Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings are used as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice or to a feminine member of your family with whom you share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring design is identical with the official ring, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
PRICE LIST—NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS 
Aquamarine, genuine, faceted top and back....$20.00 ENGAGEMENT RINGS Black onyx 17.00 All-diamond cluster, lOK _ 150.00 W Black spinel No. 1, buff top-faceted back 18.00 Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 18.00 ruby or tourmaline center 83.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.... 18.00 WEDDING BANDS 
Ruby No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.... 18.00 Sapphire, synthetic, dark blue 19.00 Ladies', Plain or Beaded, Regular $ 6.00 Sapphire, synthetic, light blue 19.00 Ladies', Plain or Beaded, Contour 8.00 Tourmaline No. 1, buff top-faceted back 18.00 Man's, Plain or Beaded, Regular 11.00 Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and back 18.00 Man's Plain or Beaded, Contour 12.00 
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24k gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. 
Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices. 
Ring Size For Measuring Finger 
3456789 1011 
«) 

ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
i) 
Football Review 

Q 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notice the WUfc Dot? Everyone Does! 
o 
Signature Model Pen, (owner's signature Crest Model Pen, $25.00 

engraved on gold Ensemble, $34.00 
band) $25.00 
Sovereign 
Model Pen. $12Jt 
Ensemble, $17.75 

Tailor the gift... to fit © the personality! 
SHEAFFER*S SNORKEL PENS 
It's easy for you to select the right MODEL, COLOR and POINT STYLE 
# 
. . . and the price that best suits your 
Valiant Model Pen, $19.75 budget! A Sheaffer Snorkel Pen is a real pleasure to give or own. It fills clean . . . point and barrel never need to be wiped. Come in today. YouH be able to take care of several 
o 
names on your gift list! 
Special Model Pen, $7.95 
Ends "Dunking" 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
December 7, 1956 
The News Is Ont! 
A Tender 1 lb. Ham Steak cooked just for YOU . . . At Frankie's . . . only $1.45 every Monday and Wednesday. 

1003 N. Notre Dame Ave. house or pizza 
Just 5 blocks from campus I 
FAY'S 
QUALITY JEWELERS 111 S. Michigan 
"The store for your most important gift shopping." • 
"Superb Selection of America's Foremost Makes of WATCHES of the Latest and most exciting 
Styles and Patterns." 
Expert Watch and Jewelry Service Our Specialty. 
"Make Cyr's your headquarters for haircuts." 
Call CE 3-0678 for appointment 
CYR'S 
BARBER SHOP 
South Bend's Leading Barber Shop 
100—102 S. A^iN ST. 
W. E. CYR, Prop. 
Diamonds Jewelry Watches 
J.TRETHEWEY 
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJII.S. BIdg. 
1957 Football Schedule 
(Continued from page 43) 

give the Irish the most tix)uble are line­men Arch Matsos, Tony Kolodziej and Pat Burke, and backs Walt Kovv'alczyk, Don Gilbert and James Wulff. 
The Irish then travel to Norman, Oklahoma for their November 16 en­counter \\'ith Coach Bud Wilkinson's Oklahoma Sooners. 
Gone from the 1956 club who humili­ated the Irish at Notre Dame are All-Americans Ed Gray, Jerry Tubbs and Tommy McDonald, However the Soon­ers should again be one of the very top teams in the country led by Clendon Thomas, who this year was considered by many to be every bit as good as Mc­Donald. Coach Wilkinson will have only three returning starters back. However 
FOREST EVASHEVSKI 
Iowa coach 

he will have almost the entii-e "alter­nate eleven," the shock troops, who did such a good job for him this year. 
The Irish return home for their eighth game of the season, November 23, when they face the Iowa Hawkeyes. 
The Hawkeyes will have seven return­ing starters to face the Irish led by Mike Hagler, a standout two-year let­terman from Washington, D.C., and Jim Gibbons, a double monogram winner fi-om Chicago. 
Coach Forrest Evashevski will prob­ably stick with his multiple-oflfense which has caused the Irish so much trouble in the past. 
November 30 marks the close of the home football season for the Irish when they face the Trojans of the University of Southern California in the twenty-eighth meeting in the long series dating back to 1926. 
Hard hit by graduation and the Pa­
(Continued on Page 49) 
HERE'S YOUR TICKET For Your 1957 
<» 
Vacation 
vs. ARMY 
AT PHILADELPHIA 

Saturday, October 12, 1957 
FOOTBALL AND THEATRE TOUR 
New York—4 days 
2 Stage Plays 

Leave Oct. 7—Return Oct. 13 From Chicago or South Bend 
vs Southern Methodist 
AT DALLAS, TEXAS 

Saturday, December 7, 1957 
NEW ORLEANS 
2 Days 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
2 Days 

Leave Chicago December 2 Return Chicago December 9 
PETE REDDEN WESTWARD HO TRAVEL BUREAU 1671 Lincolnway East SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Write for Information Reservation Must Be in Early DON'T DELAY 
J" 
Football Review 

Coach Brennan Loses 21 Seniors: 
Order Now! 

Must Replace Hornung, Morse 
THE 1957 FOOTBALL 

by JIM MCDONALD AND JIM STEINTRAGER 
A college football career ended for ch of 21 seniors when the gun sounded 

Iiding the Southern California game last Saturday. Of these 21, a number will go down as some of the finest who ever wore the Irish green. Others "will be remembered as reserves, but all have taken their place among the select few who can boast that, "I played football for Notre Dame." 
Gone will be the leadership of team captain Jimniy Morse. A three-year let­nnan, Morse is the first back to cap­tain the team since 1945. Though hob­bled by leg injuries throughout his career, Morse was nevertheless the team's outstanding pass receiver, time and time again making circus catches that thrilled the fans and discouraged the opposition. He was a dangerous runner, and his 72-yard gallop for the winning touchdown against Southern -California in 1954 will long be remem­
^ei-ed. The name of Paul Hornung will take its place among those of Stuhldreher, Beiitelli, Lujack, Guglielmi and the other great Notre Dame quarterbacks. Selected on numerous Ail-American teams during the past two years, Hornung did every­thing and did it well. Time and time again his runs thrilled capacity crowds as he powered through the opponent's 
f?J"ne. His passes hit the mark, and his Dooming punts and kickoifs kept the opposition deep in the hole. He excelled on defense, and saved many a touch­down by catching an opposing back from behind when it seemed he A\'as on his way. 
Larry Cooke, named the most im­proved quarterback for his play during spring practice, had the misfortune of laying behind Hornung, though he howed ability as a defensive player and punter, winning letters in 1955 and 1956. 
Coach Terry Brennan had a depend­able pair of halfbacks for three years in Dean Studer and SheiTill Sipes. Studer, alternating between halfback and fullback, won three letters and was always a breakaway threat due to his ability to follow the blockers. Sipes was a teammate of Hornung at Louisville Flaget High School, but was hampered by leg injuries here at Noti-e Dame. He was particularly effective on defense, and a dangerous runner as well. 
John McDonnell and Jim Milota proved to be capable reseiwes at the halfback positions. McDonnell received the Bering Award as the most improved back in the 1956 spring practice, and starred for the varsity in the Old Timers game. Unfortunately he was hampered by a shoulder injury this year. Though Milota never played high school football, he came on toward the end of this season. A savage tackier and ex­cellent pass defender, Milota played par­ticularly well against Oklahoma. 
End Bob Scannell is another of the many seniors handicapped by injuries during the past season. As a result of his fine line play and his 91 average in the College of Liberal Arts, he was named to the preseason Scholastic AU-American first team. Against Southern Methodist in his sophomore year, Scan­nell scored a touchdown by blocking a punt, recovering the ball, and racing 20 yards into the end zone. Since that time, he has been a dependable "swing" man and spent many an afternoon in the opposing backfield. 
Lou Loncaric, also sidelined by in­juries this year, will best be remembered for his 75-yard run with an intercepted pass in the 1955 North Carolina game. It was the longest scoring run of the season for the Irish. It was his mis­
(Continued on page 48) 

America at play enjoys 
the pause that refreshes 
BOniED UNDER AUTHOBITY OF THE COCA-COU COMPANY »Y 
SOUTH BEND COCA-COLA CO. 
DOPE BOOK 

PUBLISHED IN AUGUST, 
the Dope Book is especially prepared for the sports writers, radio and TV announcers and for all the Notre Dame fans seeing or hearing the Fall games. 
You'll find feature stories and action pictures; biogiaphies and pictures of players and coaches; complete sched­ule and capsule information on the opponents plus Notre Dame's all-time records and Ail-Americans since foot­ball began at the University in 1887. August, 1957 50c 
RESERVE YOUR COPY OF THE 1957 FOOTBALL REVIEW NOW— 
published in December, 1957, after the season. 50c 
BOTH 1957 magazines $1.00 
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen's 

WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS 
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING 
BREEN'S 
J ew eler 
325 South Michigan Stteet Phone AT 7-3630 
DR. N. HZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 

EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477 
^December 7, 1956 
Brennan Loses 21 ^ 
(Continued fi-om page 47) 

foi-tune to play behind three of the finest
YOUU BE MORE 
centers in Notre Dame history, Dick Szymanski, Jim Mense, and Ed Sullivan. Fans will also remember the sight of End Jim Munro grabbing two touch­
POPUIAR. ^^^'^ 
down passes against North Carolina in 1954, when only a sophomore. Munr^) if you join the fun is another senior who won a Hering Award for his outstanding play at end at Arthur Murray's in spring practice. 
Tough luck also dogged Paul Schramm today this year. Alternating between end and tackle in 1955, Schramm won a letter 
You'll have the time of your life 

and was considered a top candidate for 
learning to dance at Arthur 

a starting post on this year's eleven un­
Murray's. There are student-teacher 

til sidelined by a knee injury. 
parties all the time and gay, get­
 Tom wa^ 

togethei dances, too. It's the new Former fullback Hughes 
switched to guard this year and worketr 
way, the Murray way, to learn to 

dance. It's quicker and easier this his way to a starting position against way because you start right in danc­Navy. Thi'oughout the season, he was ing. You see, Arthur Murray has one of Coach Brennan's capable re­
discovered a simple, basic step that serves. 
anyone can master in almost no 

Both George Groble and Joe Bosse 
time. So don't miss out on fun and 

were lost to the team early in the year 
popularity that should be yours. 
 bad injuries. re­

Come in or phone the studio now. due to knee Groble 
ceived a Hering Award as the most im­proved tackle in spring practice and ARTHUR MURRAY won a starting position in the SiMIM game. Bosse missed spring practice 
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339 

because of an operation on his knee. Unfortunately the injui-y failed to re-Continued on page 49) 
«l 

The Huddle 
Best Wishes to 1956 Notre Dame Football Squad 
I 

• • , STOP at the HUDDLE • • • U 
for that little snack between classes 
f 
Football Review 
Parker-WiHterrowd 

c  Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115V2-117V2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318  
€  

Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Per­sonnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to-wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive 

€) 
your Government allowance. 
Placing your order early means better service. 
Parker-Winterrowd 
Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115y2-117y2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318 
Consult our campus representative: 
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni 
1957 Football Schedule 
(Continued from page 46) 

cific Coast Coivference ruling on eligri­bility, the Trojans will have to rely on untested sophomores and junior college transfers for their 1957 team. Gone through graduation are Jon Amett, Ells Kissinger and a host of very good Tro­jan lineman. Although still in school, 
C. E. Roberts and Karl Rubke are lost to S.C. because of the eligibility scandal. 
However things aren't terribly dismal as the Trojans have a number of sopho­mores who although they are short on game experience are excellent ballplay­ers. Ranked first among these men is Tony Ortega, an extremely hard runner, who can play both wingback and full­back. Also a very strong runner is Rex Johnston from Compton, California. In the line Ron Humenuik should help to plug the gap left iby the graduation of Fabian Abram. 
On December 7, Notre Dame travels to Dallas, Texas for the season's finale against the rugged Mustangs from Southern Methodist. This year SMU tripped the Irish and went on to a very fine season imder the tutelage of Woody Woodward. They should be very strong again next year. 
Returning from the 1956 squad are a number of veterans paced by the star of this year's game, Charlie Arnold. Gone will be such standout players as Tommy Gentry and Smitty KeUer but they should not be too sorely missed as South-em Methodist is reported to have the best freshman team in the Southwest Conference. Also back from last year's team will be backs Lon Slaughter and Charlie Jackson, along with a number of veteran linemen paced by center Bill Livingstone. 
—Bob Early and Mike Fitzpatrick 
Brennan Loses 21 
(Continued fi-om page 48) 

spond to ^treatment and prevented him from playing this year. 
Jack King, another senior, was side­lined by a back injury. 
Four other seniors, Gerry Gerami, Tom Cunningham, Pete Noznesky, and Frank Stanitzek spent most of their football careers battling the varsity on Oartier's practice field, hardly an envi­able task. 
Another senior. Bob Mondron, assisted Freshman Coach Jack Landry in coach­ing the freshman team this year. 
The seniors' last season was hardly the best in Notre Dame football history, but it wasn't because men like these weren't out there trying week after week. Thy played the game the only way they knew how, and that was the Notre Dame way. 
Al Smith 

INVITES YOU TO SOUTH BEND'S HNEST HI H SOUND STUDIO 
Specializing in High Fidelity 

Systems Electric Voice Tuners University Amplifiers National Enclosures Phillips of Holland Changers 
Tape Records and Supplies 
Reck O Kut Presto 
Webcor Garrard 
Colloro V M 
Audiophite Net 

AL SMITHS HI H SOUND STUDIO 412 South Michigan Street At. 9-6540 
Watch. I Repair 
•
 1-Year Written Guarantee 

•
 AU Watches Tested Ekctnoiically 

•
 Specialists in Automatics, CliraaiH graphs and Waterproofs 

•Indiana
 Registered Watchmaker— 11 Years Experience 


121 W. Washington Ave. CE 4.1311 
ilijiys 
UIIUTaii 

New. Catholic Books, AAissols, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 
110 East LoSalle Ave., So. B«id 
A Non-Profit Organization 

December 7, 1956 
f,V*",^' Jf*__^^.-'^^>.*'->«,'5*,«™^,*^>'^_™ 
^SM* 
at 

NOTRE DAME 
the 

Holy Cross Fathers Pubiish 
Cover deiign by CSiaries Keriiu 

THE CATHOUC BOY 
the BEST all-round magazine any boy could want! 
THE CATHOLIC BOY AQ Pages Chock-full of 
D 1 year —$3.00 
Notre Dame, Indiana rhree or more 
n 2 years— 5.00 I-yr. subscriptions i Please send the Catbolic Boy • 3 years— 7.00 $2.50 each ^ O SPORTS. ADVEN­
To: TURE. COMICS. STORIES, 
Name HOBBIES and CATHOLIC Street and Number 
INSPIRATION. 
City Zone State 
D Send Gift Card to read from /
Only^^S)0ayear: 
Your Name 

Published monthly except 
Your Addres 

during July and August 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 

A Campus-to-Career Case History 
He puts communications on the go 
Martin Jepson, E.E., Purdue, '53, is an Engineer in the Radio and Special Services Section of Illinois Bell Telephone Company. 
"I help design mobile radiotele­phone systems," says Martin. "We have a wide variety of customers, including trucking firms, raihoads and marine traffic of all kinds. Many businessmen, too, want these systems for their private cars. Each customer has his OAvn communications prob­lems, and these are a constant and stimulating engineering challenge. 
"Another part of my job is to help set up facilities for conventions, sports events and the like. Last sum­mer's Democratic National Conven­tion, for instance, used enough circuits and facilities to serv'^e a small city. There were special circuits for broadcasting, teletypewriters, the press, and for inside communica­tions. It was our job to set those facilities up and keep them operating. 
"The increase in demand for tele­phone and related services is phe­nomenal. It's this growth that's creating real career opportunities in the telephone business. Add to this the fact that it's a stable business, and you've really got something!" 
Martin Jepson is one of many young men MTIIO are finding interesting careers in Bell Tele­phone Companies, and also in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Cor­poration. See your placement officer for more information about Bell System Companies. 
BELL. 

TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
Q

Modern 
... smoke modern JiM 
:S *'m 
Free Yourself of old-fashioned ideas. 

Get full, exciting flavor through M's Miracle Tip 
% 

FREE UP! FRESHEN UP YOUR TASTE! 
Only the modern miracle of L&M's pure-white Miracle Tip brings ail that flavor through to you. No other cigarette . . . plain or filter. . . can match it. L&M tastes Richer . . . draws Easier. . . smokes Cleaner. 
^-^HV..STOB.cco 
Today—America's fastest-growing cigarette 
©LIGGETT 4 MYSRS TOBACCO CO. 

:vr;:r r^-^.N.iy.-,\.f ??,}<;no^r^T!7?3P??r?%r?'?v!»i^s?? 
*.'-•*. • r' '">;• ;-^^^?F] PiHri:^:'\^:^ i<­




