WORDEN 
PETiTBON 
OSTROWSKI 
HUNTER 
HOWMAIIYTIMESAMY 
DOYOUINHAIE? 
50?] (iOO?H200? 
IF YOU'RE AH AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT AHSWER IS OVER 200 ! 
Yes, 20 0 times every day your nose ond throat are exposed to irritation... 
20 0 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU'RE BEHER OFF SiNOiaNG 
PHILIP MORRIS! 
PROVED definitely milder . . . PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand . . . PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists. 
YES, you'll be glad tomorrow . . . you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today! 
CALL 




FOR PHILIP MORRIS 
Football Review 

e P**' .. ///, / ^ 
AT INDIANA TYPESETTING CORPORATION 
211 SERVICE COURT •SOUTH BEND 1, INDIANA 
In South Bend GILBERT'S 
is th^ place to go for the 
names you know. 
— TAKE THE MICHIGAN STREET BUS 
\ 
\ 
\STATE 




GILBERT'S 
813-817 S. Michigan Si. Open every evening till 9 
December 7, 1951 
but Cigars are a ^an!; Smoke! 
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neck­wear, undertvear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs. 
Y>u need not inhale to ei^oy a cigar/ 
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC. 
Football Review 

107 N. D. MEN DID IT 
SAVE TIME 
BETTER READING means reading faster, understanding more of what you read, knowing how to approach various kinds of reading and how to get the most out of it in the shortest time. 
You can do all your reading in half the time it takes you now. You can have more time for sports, free weekends, extra social life. 
The Foundation for Better Reading training program of individualized instruction will give you the benefit of years of research in hundreds of university and college reading clinics. It makes available to YOU the very newest instruments, techniques and scientific analyses for training in BETTER READING TO SAVE YOU TIME. 
IT MAKES SENSE . . . 
"Suppose 'two executives are equal in all important respects except that 
one can read twice as fast as the other. Which one of these two! is the 
most efficient and valuable man?" 
PERSONNEL, published by American Mfg. Assn. 
"As business pressure on operating executives grows, your efficiency must grow. And good reading is the backbone of efficiency." 
FACTORY MANAGEMENT, October, 1951. 
FREEl This helpful 16-page booklet tells you how business men, pro­fessional men, students, are cutting reading time in half and getting better understanding. 
MAIL COUPON TODAY or 
- Clip and mail today 
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend 
Send me a copy of your booklet, "How You Can Read Better - Faster" no cost or obligation. 
Name Major 
Address — Year — 
December 7, 1951 
You Can Do It Too! 
The records of 107 Notre Dame men who have completed our training show: 
average reading rate before training 292 WPM 
average reading rate after training 660 WPM 
average comprehension before training 81 % 
average comprehension after training 88% 
THEY READ 126% FASTER THEY UNDERSTAND 7% MORE 
SAVE MONEY 
EFFECTIVE January 1, 1952, the special stu­dent rate will be increased. A small deposit made before January 1st will entitle yoii to the complete reading training course at the present low rate if you start the program any­time prior to March 1, 1952. 
MAKE UP YOUR MIND NOW TO BENEFIT FROM THIS WONDERFUL, NEW, SCIEN­TIFIC TRAINING PROGRAM. 
Start the training after the Christmas - New Years Holiday if you wish; or, start after you have settled down following the beginning of next semester. DECIDE RIGHT NOW! 
 see BILL FLEMING on campus 
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 
114 East LaSalle Avenue 
Phone 3-0077 South Bend or BILL FLEMING, 235 Alumni HafI 
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
General Dentistry 
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Exiraciion of leeth—^x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND liy appointment PH . 4-56C1 
Dr. Scholl 

FOOT COMFORT SHOP 
215 West Washington Street 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Telephone: 4-7471 
Owned and operated by C. A. Heavington 
P/OH M 

1952 Football Tours 
Write for Information 
Earl J. (Pete) Redden 
1671 Lincolnway East South Bend, Indiana 
Football Review 

CHRISTMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS from AQUINAS: 
Religious Articles Books Statuary 
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend 
II 

Aquinas Library and Bookstore 
110 East LaSalle 
, Q00\W 

Service Printers/ Inc. 
'Ho'itAeut *?MeUeut€C^ ^cvifeAt C^tiimefteicU ^niittau. 
\ 

December 7, 1951 
The Notre Dame 
You'll really relax in ,,. 
CORDUROY RORRY JEANS 
in Une pinwale washable corduroy 
In Washable Gabardine . . . $5.95 
Perfect for classroom or campus . . . for everything from their comfortable elastic waistband (no belt needed), to their big, roomy pockets is tailored with easy-living in mind. Ail popular colors . . , see them tomorrow at . , . 
Michigan at Washington 
Vol. 93 December 7. 1931 No. 12 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918. 
Editor JOHN J. POWERS 
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY 
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY 

DONALD J. CARBONE News PATRICK CARRICO Assistant Ncxvs RICHARD P. CODY Features JACK R. VARLEY Sports WILLIAM J. LONDO Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER Photography LEON GARDNER Librarian 
C. B. FARMER Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT Facultj- Moderator 
Member of Catholic School Press Association. .As­sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National .Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison .Avenue, New York City. 
TH E SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and e.\amina­lion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad­dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
NEWS STAFF: Larry Brehl, Pete Caruso, Mike Ducey, Tom Godfrey, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Frank Jack­man, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky and Mike Ward. 
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Economou, Roger Fernandas, Tom Foote, Bob Fro­licher, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Frank Ronnenberg, and Jack Sand. 
PHOTOGRAPHY: Tom Bennett, Tom 
Fleck, John Kinville, Al Muth and Jel-ry 
Sheehan. 
FEATURES: Charles Hands, Sal Asselta, Harry Siemonsma, Joe Imbri­aco. Bill Stapleton, Ed Vasta, John Slavick and Rudy Unger. 
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy. 
Football Review 

V •v"V^-..-'v:i^-^r^-"^>-?^^aaseg 
p-iwjj MiaiJ-*uji»afcm» • miiun'J(«J_! J.»Wf m a UP JW-L-JJW^ LU » WWJUJIWM I JHM MI MuitL JWB«.IW I An IUW I JM I I II I II I IHBI I I I I • I I ii i • M < 111 • mmmiamam 
^ D Defeats Indiana 
By BILL LONDO 
Joe Heap Steams Past Hoosier 
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 29 — The question mark Notre Dame football team became an exclamation point to­day as Frank Leahy's Fighting Irish swamped a good band of Indiana Hoo­siers, 48-6. A i-ecord-breaking second quarter in which the Irish tallied five times stunned the crowd of 55,790 who had come expecting a close battle. 
The young Irish, 30 of wliom had never before performed on a collegiate gridiron, were paced by a sophomore hurricane, Fullback Neil Worden. The Milwaukee youngster scored four con­secutive touchdowTis in the furious sec­ond period to set a modei-n Notre Dame individual mark. 
The victory was an anniversary gift to Leahy who was watching his 100th game as a head coach, and he was car­ried off the field after the contest by his happy warriors. It was a particu­lai'ly sweet win, for Indiana had dealt 
Assista7it 

Leahy's lads one of their m.ost decisive 
defeats in the 1950 campaign. 
Notre Dame scored early in the first quarter on a 75-yard march that took just ten plays. The "I" formation, a well kept secret in the four weeks of blackedout practice which preceded the game, set up the TD. Quarterback John Mazur lined his backfield mates, John Petitbon, Bill Barrett, and Wor­den, in single file behind the center. The arrangement so baffled the Hoosiers that Mazur's pass to Captain Jim Mutscheller was completed for 40 yards to the Indiana six. Barrett scored four plays later. 
That was all for the first quarter. But in the second Notre Dame made up for many of the insults that had been heaped upon the Irish last year. 
A bad pass from center by Hoosier Mel Beckett gave Notre Dame the ball deep in'Indiana territory, and Worden started the touchdown marathon by crashing six yards for the score. Three minutes later he was back again on the pay side of the Hoosier goal, this time on a buck from the one. 
Linebacker Dick Szymanski kept the party going by recovering a fumble on the 17. Barrett squirmed to the five and Worden went over. Then after defensive halfback John Lattner had intercepted Lou D'Achille's pass Wor­den went 11 yai-ds up the middle to end his touchdown binge. 
Sports Editor 
Lattner scored one of his own a moment later to cap a 44-yard drive which finished the most productive quarter in Irish history. Menil Mav­raides converted after all the first half scores, and the Irish led 42-0 when the referee's whistle gave the slightly be­wildered Hoosiers time to catch their breath. 
In the second half South Bend's Bobby Robertson finally gave the down­staters something to cheer about as he circled the Irish right end for the Hoosiers' only marker. A D'Achille to Gene Gedman aerial put Clyde Smith's boys into position. 
Notre Dame got that touchdowTi back in the final period. Barrett took Rob­ertson's punt at midfield and raced back to the 27 behind some fine blocking. Del Gander counted on a short plunge to finish the scoring, as Mavraides missed the final point. 
Statistically the Irish had a big edge. Leahy's defensive lineup, composed mostly of underclassmen and directed by Jack Alessandrini, limited the Hoo­siers to 93 yards rushing and harassed D'Achille so that his passing was in­effective. Notre Dame gained 214 yards on the ground, and Mazur outpassed D'Achille by two yards. 
The win was the 18th for the Irish in 24 games that have been played since 1898, and was the 17th consecu­tive opening day triumph. 
Bill Barrett, Irish Halfback Is Brought Down After Short Gain 
^ mi 
*•-;• 

'^^^^M^MM^W^rMM^^^W^^^^. 
%... w^^ 
::^ 
-.-^^ 

Irish halfback John Lattner smothered by a host of Titan tacklers in game at Briggs Stadium 
Petitbon's Dashes Down Detroit 
Detroit, Mich., Oct. 6.—In the first 
night game in the history of Notre 
Dame football, Frank Leahy's young 
Irish wrecked a game but outmanned 
Detroit squad, 40-6, before 52,371 fans 
in Briggs Stadium this evening. The 
brilliance of the arc lights was rivaled, 
however, by the flashing cleats of sen­
ior halfback John Petitbon as he 
wrapped up the ol' ball game in the 
very first period with three sparkling 
touchdown runs. 
Petitbon took the game's opening kickoff and then charged up the field 85 yards behind fine blocking for his first score. A little later he criss­crossed on a. punt return with Billy Barrett and raced over the Titan goal line after a 73-yard jaunt. 
Petitbon added his finishing touches to the ND cause just before the quarter ended when he took a pitchout from quarterback Johnny Mazur and streaked through a host of would-be Detroit tacklers for 39 yards and an­other six points. Near the end of the first half the Leahy-men added their fourth tally on a 30-yard pass from Mazur to Jim Mutscheller to put them ahead, 26-0. 
Detroit's tough Titans refused to quit th»ugh and came back from the inter­mission with plenty •f fire and zip. Their defense was especially tough dur-
December 7, 1951 
By ROGER FERNANDES 

ing that period and they squelched two 
Irish scoring bids to hold their visitors 
scoreless. 
The Titans even managed to nego­

tiate a scoring try of their own with 
a 50-yard march that Bob Lippe made 
count with a dive into the end zone 
from the one. Their first conversion 
try was good but they were penalized 
15 yards and on their next attempt 
the kick fell short. 
The Fighting Irish regained com­mand of the game in the final period and struck twice to wind up the con­test. Sophomore halfback John Lattner intei-cepted a pass from quarterback Gornak and ran it back for 32 yards and a touchdown. 
Frosh Walt Cabral pounced on a Detroit fumble on the Titan 18-yard line not long afterward to set up the final ND tally. Halfback Paul Reyn­olds ripped his way to the four, and then to the one. Frosh quarterback Ralph Guglielmi went over from there on a quarterback sneak. 
Menil Mavraides kicked the point after touchdown for the fourth time in six tries during the course of the game. 
The Irish outgained their hosts in every department and piled a grand total of 402 yards from rushing and passing. Their ground game with 284 yards accounted for three-fourths of their yardage. 
Not counting his two long kick re­turns Petitbon wound up the evening^'s play with an average ground gain of about ten yards for 13 tries. Of the game's nine fumbles, not one was re­covered by the erring team. . The Titans grabbed five Notre Dame muffs while the Irish got the ball from the Detroit club via the blunder method four times. 
Neil Worden picks up a few of the 284 yards the Irish gained on the ground 
,. ?"j.!!je ^y'j^ "•*!-•' - _•*%! ^ j 
-•'V/'*"-s ., "•••"^' '* 
SMd, Benners Bowbaril Irish 27-20 
By FRANK RONNENBERG 

Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 13—Against the backdrop of a crisp Autumn aftei-­ncon, 58,240 hysterical fans at the Notre Dame Stadium Avatched one Fred Ben­ners parlay a matchless thread-needle pass into a stunning upset as Southern Methodist University toppled Notre Dame, 27-20. 
The game started quietly enough and the fans were comfortably settled back when the initial explosion came. Mid­way in the first quarter, after an ex­change of punts, Southern Methodist started from their ov^m 34-yard line. Up to this point Benners had been erratic, but now he quickly passed for nine yards and then threw a long aerial straight up the middle. Halfback Benton Musselwhite took the ball on the Notre Dame 40-yard line and zig­zagged all the way through a broken field to complete a 57-yard scoring play. 
That was the start, but it was still early. Notre Dame came right back when a short punt and two rushes gave the Irish a first down on the SMU 33­yard line. Here Paul Reynolds, on a cross buck over his own right tackle, broke through the line, cut back to the middle and ran over the Mustang sec­ondary for Notre Dame's first touch­down. 
Two minutes later the Mustangs had scored again. SMU brought the kick­off back to their own 35-yard line, then the accurate. Benners hit H. N. Russell for 11 yards, threw to Musselwhite for another first down on the Irish 37, and then fired a long, looping aerial that Russel picked oif as he went into the end zone. 
The second quarter began with an 
Jim Mutscheller goes up for a long pass 

exchange of punts and then Notre Dame got the first big break of the day. Barrett's punt was fumbled by Crisler of the Mustangs and Lattner recovered for the Irish on the SMU 24-yard line. Two plays later Johnny Mazur found Chet Ostrowski in the clear and his 19-yard pass brought the Irish to within one point of a tie. This time Mavraides kicked the point and the score was 13-13. 
Almost immediately SMU was ahead 20-13. After two passes went asti-ay Benners spotted Ben White loose in the end zone and pitched to him for the touchdown. 
Early in the second half Benner rifled a long pass to White who grabbed it for a first down on the Irish 21-yard line. Three passes later Pat Knight scored. 

Into the fourth period and the 14­point spread loomed larger. Intercep­tions by Jerry Norton and Val Joe Walker had stopped two Notre Dame drives. There was less than five min­utes to play. Then as sharply as day and night the tempo changed. Jack AUessandrini picked off one of Ben­ners' passes and brought it back to the Mustang 35. Mazur threw long to Worden and the Irish had a first down on the SMU five-yard line. Lattner took it over and Mavraides kicked the point. 27-20; less than three minutes. 
The Irish kicked off and held for do\vns. The Ponies were forced to punt and Notre Dame got the ball again, deep in their own territory. Mazur's pases drove the Irish to the S. M. U. 27, but a penalty and the final gun stopped the Irish drive. 
Football Revierv 

?^.:iyia?iffM-Mgf>jwygmii«ir.-.wr'Ttwi?gaMww«wgii^^ 
Panthers Tamed m 
By TOM 

Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 20—A powerful machine cannot be stymied for long, and thus Notre Dame's Fighting Irish rose from the throes of their heart­breaking defeat by SMU and crushed Pittsburgh 33-0 on this sunny Autumn afternoon before a capacity crowd of 60,000 in Pitt Stadium. 
It was a courageous but outmanned Pittsburgh team that faced the Irish, for what little offensive punch the Panthers did have was considerably 
Joe Heap goes oflF tackle to score fifth Irish touchdown against outnianned Pitt 
lessened by the fact that Bob Best-wick and Chris Warriner, their dy­namic passing combination, were side­lined by injuries. 
For the Irish quarterback John Ma­zur enjoyed one of his greatest days, as he passed to Bill Barrett for two touchdowns and personally scored two others in addition to running his team in flawless fashion. 
Tackle Sam Palumbo provided the Irish with their first break when he "blocked Paul Blanda's punt on the Pitt 23 ."shortly after the opening whistle. The Irish failed to cash in immediately as the Panthers held in a great goal-line stand that served only to pro­long the inevitable. 
Petitbon returned the ensuing punt to the 32, and in six plays the Wsh Tjroke the ice, with Mazur throwing a 
ten-yard TD aerial to Bill Barrett who 
had been comnletely ignored by the 
Panther secondary. Only eight min­
utes had elapsed and although Menil 
December 7, 1951 
 FOOTE 
Mavraides missed the conversion at­tempt, it was evident that extra points wouldn't be needed today. 
Midway in the second quai'ter Mazur and Barrett again combined their tal­ents on a 28-yard pass that was good for another six-pointer as the elusive Billy once more scored unmolested. This counter climaxed a march which covered 54 yards in six plays after John Lattner had recovered Campbell's fumble on the ND 46. 
A few minutes later, Lattner, who played a great defensive game, pro­vided the break that started the Irish rolling again by intercepting Blair Kramer's pass and returning eight yards to the Pitt 43. Reynolds, in two lightning thrusts, went for 11, then 20 yards, to the Pitt 12. Mazur tossed to Mutscheller on the one, and then the Irish quarterback smashed over with but a minute and thirty sec­onds remaining in the half. Mavraides' second straight conversion gave ND a 20-0 lead at intermission. 
The only serious threat the Panthers could muster came after Petitbon fum­bled the second-half kickoiF on the Irish 23 and Gasparovic recovered for Pitt. The Panthers soon had a first dovm. on the 12, but the Irish line held, and on fourth down end Bob O'Neil crashed through and spilled Kramer on the 20 as he "was attempt­ing to pass. 
Following an exchange of punts, the Irish embarked on an 80-yai-d scoring sortie in 13 plays which was culminated by a one-yard plunge by Mazur after Petitbon (23) fakes out Panther defender 
Worden and Eejmolds had worked the ball into the scoring position with sev­eral sparkling rans. 
Irish resei-ves then took over and continued to outplay the tiring Pan­thers. Freshmen quarterbacks Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey shared the job of running the team, and it was Carey who directed the Irish on their final touchdown drive .which covered 71 yards after Szymanski had intercepted a Pitt aerial on the ND 29. 
The game was never in doubt from early in the first period as the Irish repeatedly took advantage of Pitt mis­cues and converted them into points. Altogether, the Irish blocked one punt, intercepted four passes, and recovered three Pitt fumbles through their alert 
defensive play. 
Panther back Bill Pickett is pulled down by Alessandrini as Irish back Tom Carey and Pitt end Dick Deitrich watch 
Revenge Sweet: IID 1 Pirdne 9 
'ifi • y'.t 

^^k. 
John Lattncr and Dan Shannon combine to bring down Boilermaker star end Leo Sugar 
By JACK VARLEY 

Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 27—Coach Frank Leahy drove a well-oiled, fine working machine onto the gridiron of Notre Dame' Stadium this afternoon and went on to defeat the Boilermakers of Purdue, 30-9, and thus avenge last year's defeat that ended Notre Dame's 39 game undefeated string. However, it wasn't until the Boilermakers took a third pei'iod lead that the Leahy machine was able to get up enough momentum, before the capacity crowd of 57,390, to jolt Coach Stu Holcomb's charges into sub­mission. 
In the finest display of Notre Dame football this season, John Mazur piloted his team with an expertness that saw four different men score for the Irish. 
After a scoreless first period Notre Dame buckled do^\^l and began a drive dowTi field. Taking the ball on their owm 25 after a Boilermaker. punt, fullback Neil Worden and halfback Bill Barrett combined their efforts to gain a first down on the Purdue 36. A play and a 14 yai-d gain by halfback Paul Reynolds later to»k the ball to the midfield stripe. In two more plays the flashy Frosh picked up another 14 yards and then turned the ball lugging duties ovel- to Woi'den who picked up four yards to the Purdue 32. 
Reynolds then again assumed his role of sparkplug and ran to the 22 for another first down and two plays later picked up another five. With the Pur­due defense now employing a nine man line, Mazur passed to end Chet Ostrow­ski for a first down on the nine yard marker. Reynolds and Woi*den com­bined to pick up six and then Mazur faked Worden off right guard and sent Reynolds, with the ball, over left guard for the score. Mavraides' kick was good. 
Still very much- in the ball game, Purdue took advantage of Worden's fumble on his own 39 early in the third period and drove to the 34. Then with fourth do\\Ti and five yards to go Jim Reichert booted the ball from the Notre Dame 41 yard line for a field goal. 
A few seconds later and another Notre Dame fumble gave the Boilermakers the ball on the Irish 43. Quarterback Dale' Samuels on the first play threw a long pass to e'nd Darrel Brewster who caught the ball and raced all the way to the 

goal. Samuels missed the conversion and Pui'due took the lead, 9-7. 
However, the joyful expressions of the Pui'due fans soon vanished when another field goal, this time by Mav­raides from the Purdue ten, put the Irish out in front by a 10-9 score. 
The next score was set up when Notre Dame's Dan Shannon interce'pted a Sam­uels aerial on the Notre Dame 26. Wor­den and halfback John Lattner combined their efforts on several plays to drive to the Boilermakers' 40 yard marker. Here, with a fourth down and inches to go Mazur decided to gamble and sent Lat­tner over Purdue's left tackle. Lattner scooted through a big hole opened by tackle Bob Toneff and end Jim Mut­scheller, wrestled free from three would-be-tacklers and went all the way for the second Irish touchdown of the game. 
From here in it was all Notre Dame as the Fighting Irish Avent to work and scored two more touchdoA\Tis before the final gun went off. Taking the ball on their own 47, a combination of Worden, Mazur, Reynolds and Ban-ett ground a passage to the Purdue 11. Barrett picked up ten and after one unsuccessful thrust at the Boilermaker wall gained the re­maining yard to put his team out in front 23-9. 
Later the Irish began another march through Purdue te'rritory starting this time on the Boilermaker 44 and in a sustained drive Avent to the eight from vjhich Mazur threw a pass to Mut­scheller who went over for the score. Mavraides came in and added the 30th point for the Irish. 

Pau] Reynolds hurdles Purdue line as the Irish gain revenge for Billy Barrett breaks in the cleat with Bob Toneff for an escort last year's upset. No. 79 is guard V'ugil Bardash. 
14 
Football Review 

Midshipmen Toppled in Hid li-0 
By JACK SAND 

Baltimore, Md., Nov. 3. — Three lightning-quick touchdo^vns, two of them coming within a minute of the second period on long runs from scrim­mage by Neil Worden and John Mazur, and a third coming in the final quarter on a 74 yard romp by Billy Barrett, added up to a 19-0 triumph for Frank Leahy's once-beaten Irish, and thus dunked the Navy's stubborn Middies a little deeper into the depths of one of football's most one-sided rivalries. 
In Avinning the silver anniveTsary game of the series in the "land of a thousand puddles" before a capacity crowd of 44,237 shivering fans at Baltimore's Municipal Stadium, the South Benders made it six straight over the Midshipmen, and twenty out of the' twenty-five played to date, including one tie. 
Navy, still thii'sting for its first vic­tory, displayed flashes of the once bril­liant days gone by, but nevertheless were doomed by their own mistakes. The sailors squandered two scoring chances by their errors and set up one Notre Dame touchdo^vn by a fumble. The Irish deservedly enough had the edge in statistics, piling up 177 yards from scrimmage to 128 for Navy. 
Defense' was predominant in the muck of the stadium turf, as evidenced by 25 punts, 11 via the toe of ND's Barrett, and 14 by Bob Cameron, the Middies, mighty punter. Under heavy pressure from Notre Dame's line, the' Navy hooter averaged 36 yards a kick, getting off one beauty of 62 yards. Barrett only aver­aged 32 yards but did some splendid sharpshooting at the sidelines, three times putting the ball out of bounds in­side' the Navy 20. 
Notre Dame's first touchdown came with nine and a half minutes gone in the second quarter, when Worden took a handoif from Mazur and on a beauti­fully executed delayed buck sprinted 36 yards for the TD. This spectacular thrust capped a four play drive covering 51 yards in all. 
Less than a minute later, after Min­nie Mavraides had missed the extra point, defensive halfbacks Dan Shannon and Dave Flood jointly recovered Frank Hauif's fumble on the Navy 22. Barrett then rammed to the 21, from where Ma­zur skirted Navy's right end on a split-T sweep, and legged it the rest of the way despite a last yard stumble caused 
Mavraides made good the point this time to put the Irish ahead 13-0 at halftime. The Midshipmen wound up the first thirty minutes with a minus three yards in rushing and only two first downs. 
With Mike Sorrentino at quarterback in place of Bob Zastrow, and Frank Adorney and Vic Vine running hard at the halfbacks. Navy roared back with vengeance in the second half to hold the Irish to a mere 11 yards. 
Late in the third period Adorney broke loose for 32 yards to the Notre Dame 21 and moved to another first doAvn on the ten in just two plays. The chance fizzled as a Don Fisher fumble was pounced on by Jack Alessandrini for an Irish recovery. 
After an exchange of punts, Notre Damei sealed the verdict in the final canter when the speedy Barrett picked up one of Cameron's boots on his own 24, and with the aid of a crushing block thrown by Shannon, circled to his left and set sail all the way down the side­line for the score. Mavraides kick was wide and the score remained 19-0. 
The never-say-die sailors then shoved off on a last ditch attempt to score. After the kickoff Dean Smith and Jack Perkins collaborated to lug the leather to the Irish 44. Cameron, then faked a punt and passed 14 yards to Vine on the 30. Pex-kins then ripped inside tackle for ten and Vine moved to the 12 for a first down. Cameron then flipped to Seiber on the three but the Middies failed to crack the goal-line after two tries, get­ting to the one-foot line as the clock ran out. 
The leading ground gainer for the Irish was the hard-working Worden who racked off 96 yards in 21 carries. Com­peting with the fleet sophomore was frosh halfback Paul Eeynolds, who also did some fine running in picking up 33 yards. Another outstanding perform­ance was turned in by Mazur who called one of his slickest games'of the year. 
when Hauff missed a clean tackle. Paul Reynolds, following a hand-off from John Mazur (1), attempts to circle Navy's cad 
December 7, 1951 
jiMiBwmjw itm^.. H J^.^*p^^L^g^^^l.llJ*m^«>^^^*^5y»^^y»l^c»?»M^ 
r^i 
L-,'^ 

-^ 
,jJitS?:^'*n 
Bill Barrett sweeps bet^veen Spartans Frank Kush (60) and Don Dohoney (80) 
State's Spate Stnn M 
By MICKEY CARROLL 
East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 10.—Start­
ing ofif an afternoon—long scoring pa­
rade with a touchdown on their first 
play from scrimmage, the Spartans of 
Michigan State thoroughly outclassed 
Notre Dame 35-0, as they handed the 
Irish the woi'st defeat ever suffered by 
a Frank Leahy-coached football team. 
Hailed for weeks as the "game of the 
year," the one-sided romp was decided 
before the first quarter was well under­
way, and marked the end of the much 
talked-of Notre Dame hopes for na­
tional honors. 
It was the moth-eaten "rhubai-b" play that scored for the Spartans the first time they got their hands on the ball and actually racked up enough IJoints to clip the shut-out Irish. 
With first and ten from their own 12-yard line, Michigan State came out of the huddle ^vith the backfield shifted far over to the right in the single -wing formation. Tackle Don Coleman, how­ever, lined up to the strong side of center, leaving only captain Bob Carey on the left side of the line. 
Carey called to Coleman that he was out of position and, with the Irish de­fense caught flatfooted, expecting a shift in the State line, the ball was snapped and fullback Dick Panin scooted 88 yards for the touchdouTt and the ball game. 
-John Petitbon, at safety for Notre 

Dame, was the only greenshirt to come 
close to Panin, and the best he could 
muster was a desperation dive on the 
Irish 15 which was eluded by the fleet 
State fullback. 
Ten minutes later that margin was 

increased to two touchdowns, as State 
marched 68 yards in seven plays, cli­
maxed by a one-yard plunge by Vince 
Pisano. 
And the Spartans were right back with their third TD of the day before a minute had gone by in the second quarter when McAuliffe drove into the end zone to cap a drive which had started late in the first period on the Spartan 26. 
Nothing much happened in the rest of half number one. The Spartans were saving up for the third quarter, when they took the kick-off and method­ically marched 74 yards in fifteen plays for the touchdown. This time Carey, who had confined his scoi-ing efforts to points after touchdowns, did the TD damage himself as he grabbed a Dorow aerial for the six points. 
Things settled dowTi again until State halfback Eay Vogt snared a fourth period pass by Irish quarter­back Ealph Guglielmi and returned it to Notre Dame's 31. Six plays later it was in the Irish end zone via a one-yard pass from Dorow to freshman 
Ellis Ducett. 
While all this happened, it was hard 
to believe that Notre Dame was still in 
the game. The nearest they ever got 
to the Michigan State goal was the 
Spartan 39-yard line, on a fourth pe­
riod drive sparked by freshman signal 
caller Guglielmi. 
The Irish were completely trounced 
as the Spartans piled up a crushing 
total of 353 yards on the ground and 
112 in the air, completed 11 of 19 
passes, and ground out 21 first downs. 
Though never otxtfought, the youth­
ful greenshirts were no match for the 
cleverly varied offensive tactics of 
coach Biggie Munn. And there was 

very little they could do to stop the 
advance of the powerful Spartan at­
tack led by Ail-American candidates 

Bob Carey and Don Coleman and com­
prising, according to East Lansing 
sportswriters, the best football team 
ever fielded by Michigan State, 
One of the few bright spots for Notre Dame was the emergence of Guglielmi as a topflight quarterback. The first-year signal caller put on the best display of the afternoon for the Irish as he led the team during the third and fourth periods. 
The entire game was played on a sui-­prisingly clear field. East Lansing had been hard hit by the early midwest winter, and student volunteers had to dig Macklin Field out from under a deep blanket of snow on Friday to even make play possible. 
The defeat was one of the six worst in the history of Notre Dame, the most recent coming at -the hands of the war-time Army eleven, which whipped the Irish 48-0 in 1945. 
John Lattner (14) breaks up Spartan pass play as AI Dorow (47) reaches helplessly 
YoHHg Irish Repnise Tarheels 12-7 
By JACK ECONOMOU 

Chapel Hill, North Carolina., Nov. 17. —Notre Dame's younger set dominated play today as the Irish repulsed North Carolina by a 12-7 count. Having scored single tallies in the second and third quarters the greenshirts fought to contain determined scoring bids by the Tarheels in the final stanza. One drive ended on the Irish five as three rushes and a pass netted nothing. With two minutes remaining the Carolinians threatened again but were stopped well short of the goal. 
Most of the game was drab and life­less. Carolina was frustrated on three early scoring opportunities set up by Irish fumbles. Notre Dame meanwhile was juggling quarterbacks in an effort to display offensive strength. Midway through the second quarter an 11-play, 55-yard drive was climaxed when year­ling Paul Eeynolds tallied. After in­termission Neil Worden capped an 84­yard drive with a four-yard plunge. 
Finally Carolina woke up. Freshman Connie Gravitte clicked wath a 37-yard scoring aerial to halfback Jack Cooke. The panic was on minutes later when center Bill Kirkman intercepted a Mazur pass on the Tarheel 15. Kirk­man fumbled but teammate Bud Car­son recovered and raced to the Irish 
46. The youthful backfield of Gravitte, Cooke, and sophs John Gaylord and Allen Mueller alternated in slashing repeatedly through the greenshirted line. Faced with a first down and goal to go prospect for the Tarheels, the Irish perked up and halted the Caro­linian heroics. 
Carolina entered the game as a 14­point underdog, but with the expressed purpose of beating the Irish and thus saving Coach Snavely's job. Rumor had it that only an exceptional showing would save Suavely, whose team had dropped six of eight contests. The Leahymen were still smarting from the 35-0 drubbing administered to them by Michigan State last Saturday. An­other Irish feature was the absence of senior regulars John Petitbon and Billy Barrett. Frosh quarterbacks Tom Carey and Ralph Guglielmi were given ample chance to display their abilities as reg­ular John Mazur was called on only for spot appearances. 
The early moments of the game gave promise of a hardfought, grid bat­tle. Spearheaded by the lightning thrusts of Johnny Lattner, the Ii-ish 
December 7, 1951 
pierced the Tarheel line repeatedly only to lose the ball by fumbles or on penal­ties. The Carolina offense was even more frustrated. Three advances took the host squad well into Irish terri­tory, but vital plays Avent away before the stiffening Notre Dame line, and the Leahymen took possession. 
After these early offensive efforts, the game settled largely into a punting duel. Throughout the second and third quarters the Irish had the upper hand but as many of their drives were re­pulsed as were successful. The Tar­heels meanwhile wei-e becoming im­potent. Their offense was entirely lack­ing in deception and power, and only the stellar play of their defensive line kept the Irish in check. 
However, the final period completely rocked the South Benders from any sense of complacency they might have enjoyed. Their entire store of pluck and gridiron know-how was called upon to stop the onrushing Carolinians. 
The 44,525 spectators saw a preview of the Irish squad for the following two years. The backfield was com­posed of two freshmen and two sopho­mores. At their halfback posts, Paul Reynolds and Johnny Lattner effec­tively demonstrated the form which Avill make them feared scatbacks in years to come. Sophomore fullback Neil Worden was again the workhorse 
Sam Palumbo (67) looks on as Dan Shannon drops Tarheel 
AP Wire Photo 
of the offense, picking up necessary yardage in a consistent manner. Frosh Tom Carey and Mugs Guglielmi largely directed the squad and displayed to all their passing and ball handling abili­ties. 
This was the first time an Irish ath­letic squad has competed at Chapel Hill. The first game of the series was held at Yankee Stadium in New York, while the 1950 contest was a 14-7 affair in South Bend. The North Carolina student body extended every favor to the Irish and the some 500 rooters who came down from Northern Indiana. In the Notre Dame dressing room just before kickoff time, captain Jim Mat­scheller read off an 88-foot telegram bearing the names of every Notre Dame student. Having thus been assured of the complete backing of-the school, the Leahjmien won their football game, and in a return telegram expressed their thanks and their promise to win the future games for the entire body of Notre Dame men. 
Thus, the Fighting Irish, still smart­ing from their 35-0 defeat by Michigan State last week we're able to stave off North Carolina's valiant comeback. It was a great tribute to the fabulous Notre Dame spirit. No one man can be singled out as the vital factor in this game; it was a team victory—they got off the floor together. 
Irish Rally in Final Period to Tie Hawkeyes 
By BILL NOONAN 

Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 24.—For three quarters this afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium, an inspired Iowa eleven paced by the driving legs of Bill Reichardt and the slingshot arm of Burt Britzniann, shoved favored Notre Dame all over the gridiron. Then, sud­denly, the Irish, faced with the possi­bility of their third defeat of the year, snapped out of the doldrums with a spray of desperation passes in the final stanza which enabled them to deadlock the Hawkeyes, 20-20. 
With but 55 seconds remaining on the big stadium clock and Iowa ahead 20 to 13, John Mazur heaved a 25-yard aerial towards Chet Ostrowski in the end zone. The ND end leaped into the air for the pigskin along with Iowa de­fenders, George Rice and Don Phillips. The ball was batted down, but Field Judge Elliott Hasan threw his red handkerchief on the ground and called pass interference against Phillips. 
The ball was placed on the one where hard-working John Lattner rammed over for the score. Bob Joseph, in a real pressure situation, booted the point that tied the score, and Notre Dame adherents breathed a sigh of I'elief. 
The Hawkeyes got their first score when Britzniann tossed to George Broe­der on his 42 and the swift halfback zoomed 58 yards down the sidelines. 
Following a few punt exchanges, 
ND got rolling and in eleven plays, 
starting from their own 49, the Irish 
had their first touchdown. Neil Worden 
covered the pay-off yardage with a 
nine-yard buck up the middle on fourth 
down. Minnie Mavraides' try for the 
point was wide and Leahy's lads still 
trailed by one. 
Bouncing right back, Iowa, in five plays had another TD and a 14-6 lead. George "Dusty" Rice was the big gun in this drive, snaring two passes, one for 14 and another for 45 yards and the score. Reichardt's conversion gave the oft-beaten lowans an eight-point half-time advantage. 
Coach Leahy came out for the second half with a new defense set up to stop Britzmann's passes. The Hawkeye passing attack, which was essentially used with such great success against the same spread formation that SMU had used, was clicking with annoying regularity. Seeing that he could no longer throw so accurately against this new defensive pattern from the spread, Britzniann concentrated on the T for the most part, and midway through the third period, led his team 62 yards for its third touchdown. 
Broeder, racking up his second of the day, swept around left end seven yards to score standing up. Bob Ton-eff, outstanding all afternoon, blocked Reichardt's try for point, and with the third period drawing to a close, under­dog Iowa was out in front 20 to 6. 
With ten minutes remaining in the contest, the blue-shirted warriors final­ly started rolling. Leahy was juggling his quarterbacks, using both Mazur and freshman Ralph Guglielmi, with the latter sparking the first drive. A 31­yard heave to Paul Reynolds and a 44­yarder to Lattner, who made a great over-the-shoulder grab, put the leather on the five. From there, Lattner piled through a mass of humanity for the marker. Joseph, diminutive sophomore halfback, in his first attempt at place­kicking in a varsity game, split the uprights and it was 20-13. 
Starting on its own 22, after Iowa punted, Notre Dame headed goalward as the minutes ticked away. Guglielmi was thrown for a couple of losses, but 
Iowa tackier just catches halfback Joe Heap (42) in Iowa game action. 
Mazur hit Lattner for 15. With a fourth down ten, Lattner faked a kick and flipped a 23-yard pass that nestled in Jim Mutscheller's arms on the Notre Dame 45. Guglielmi, after wriggling away from would-be tacklers, threw to the same receiver on the Iowa 34. After Lattner nabbed a Guglielmi pass for six, Mazur came back in and spotted Worden for a first down on the 
24. Then came the crucial pass inter­ference ruling in favor of the Irish and Joseph's tension-packed, score-
Lattner (14), Szymanski (52) and Ready combine to down Hawkeye ball carrier. tying extra point. 
Football Review 

.--::• -;::^^;-<:.-:rr^..v.­
^r-r:j,^-isw&.f^i^mmmm 

Trojans doiiqnered in Stnnning Upset 
By BILL RILEY 

Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1—An 18-staff elected to give young Guglielmi an cepted a Southern California pass on the year-old young man by the name of opportunity to run the squad. Guglielmi Notre Dame 27, it took eight plays for Ealph Guglielnii, barring- acts of God responded in a most satisfying way. It the Irish to push the ball over. This is or his local draft board, this afternoon took him 13 plays to move the Irish 78 how it went. Lattner over guard for nailed do-v\Ti the Notre Dame starting yards douTi-field, an average of six yards four, Joe Heap, frosh left half, for four quartei-back's job for three years yet to per play. Eight halfback John Lattner more. Worden for a first down on the come. He did it by directing his pi"e-provided the score' Avith a one-yard 37. Worden twice up the middle for dominantly young and consistently plunge over Bob Toneff's right tackle nine. And Lattner over guard for the aggressive mates to a surprising 19-12 position. first down, on the Southern California win over Southern California. The' alert Trojans got their second and 47. Then Lattner went through the 
Lest all the applause' for the stirring final score on a bit of a break early in center for eight. With the Trojan de­
triumph go to the youngsters, it should the third period. Dick Nunis of South­fenders pulled in, Guglielmi placed two be mentioned that seniors Cliet Ostrow-ern California picked off^ a Guglielmi flankers out to the right, gave the ball ski, left end, Captain Jim Mutscheller, pass that had bounced out of Chet to Worden, who cut to his left, slanted right end. Bob Toneif, tackle who played Ostrowski's hands on the Irish 34. off-tackle, and raced 39 yards down the both offense and defense, and John Petit-Schneider flipped a short one to Jim sidelines without being touched. Joseph bon were also big factors in the victory. Sears who ran the ball to the Notre missed the point-after attempt. 
For awhile, it looked as if the game Dame five. That was a third down pass, It was the fourth quarter before the were going to go according to form. following a three-yard loss by Al Car-Irish put the game in their pocket. With After a scoreless iirst quarter, the Tro­michael and an incomplete pass. It was the ball resting on the Irish 39, Gugliel­
jans took the ball on their own 38, and thrown from the T-formation, which mi tossed to Lattner. Lattner dodged, 
in eight plays, Frank Gifford had spear­S.C. used sparingly in a predominantly whirled and plunged to the Tjojan 30. 
headed S. C. to a touchdouTi. In the single wing attack. On the next play John Petitbon, Worde'n and Lattner all 
series, GiflFord pased for 18 yards to the Trojans went back into the single had a hand in the scoring march. Of gg blocking back Dean Schneider, and ran wing, and Sears followed a supei-fluity the 30 yards, Lattner got 14, Worden the ball three times himself. He scored of blockers around right e'nd for a touch­six, and Petitbon the remaining 10. Pet­on a slant from the Irish eight-yai-d line. down. Gifford again failed to convert. itbon climaxed his four years at Notre However, he missed the try for the extra Guglielmi led the Irish to their second Dame by sweeping right end for eight point. score in a very workmanlike way. After yards and the winning touchdown. This It was then that the' Insh coaching Gene Carrabine, a freshman, had intex--time Joseph converted. 
Fullback Leon Sellers of USC bursts through the middle of the Irish line for 
•;5i 

-"-.! ." ,-;-,-•s • = J '* 5\2X* 

JAMES FRANCIS MUTSCHELLER . . . 1951 Irish Captain, Jim's all-around excellence and leadership completely measured up to the high standards set by his predecessors, and earned him a place beside Jerry Groom, Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Bill Fischer, and other captains in Notre Dame grid annals. .. . A three-year letter winner, he played behind Hart and Bill Wightkin in his Sophomore year, and moved up to a first-string berth last year. .. . In two years of first-string end play, Jim set new records for total pass receptions, number of pass receptions in one season, and was mentioned on many Ail-American teams. . . . This year the greater Irish depth allowed Coach Leahy to play his captain only on offense, but last year Jim starred on defense as weP, averaging 50 min­utes of playing time per game over a nine game schedule. .. . In piling up his 50 minute average Jim set a new season record of 35 pass recep­tions, led the team in scoring with seven touch­downs to his credit, and made the Irish de­fensive flanks I'ough for the opponents. . . . Odd­ly enough, the glue-fingered pass snatcher re­marked last year that he preferred defense to ofl^ense. . . . With the more effective running attack of this year's squad, the Irish quarter­
backs didn't throw to Mutscheller as much as Bob Williams and John Mazur did last year, but he was still the favorite target of Mazur, Gug­lielmi, and Carey, and managed to break into the scoring column frequently. . . . He provided the only bright spot in the Michigan State game when he caught his 50th pass, breaking the career i-ecord of 49 set by Leon Hart in 1949. . . . Jim came to Notre Dame from Beaver Falls, Pa., where in high school he earned eight letters —two in football, three in basketball, and three in baseball. .. . A Commerce Senior, the Irish captain is 21, stands 6'1", and weighs 198 pounds. . . . 
JOHN E. PETITBON .. . a three-year Senior lettei-man who plays both offense and defense . . . John is a 20-year­old, six-foot, 190-pound halfback . .. was honored last year by the New Orleans Athletic Club as the Outstanding Amateur Athlete of 1950 from the New Orleans area . . . he is a foreign marketing major in the College of Com­merce .. . in his prep days John won seven letters at Jesuit High of New Orleans, three in football and track and one in baseball . . . scored three touchdowns against Detroit this vear . . . 
December 7, 1951 
DONALD FRANCIS PENZA .. . a Sophomore end of Slovak-German parentage ... he is from Kenosha, Wis.. . . this 200-pounder is over 6'1" tall .. . he graduated from St. Catherine's High School in Eacine- where he lettered in football his last three years ... in his Senior year he caught a touchdown pass in the last seconds of the game to win the Milwaukee Catholic Conference title for St. Catherine's . . . Don had a family of five brothers, two sisters and his parents rooting for him this year . . . 
JOHN J. LATTNER . . . this 18-year-old Sophomore runs from the halfback position . . . just completed his first season on the N.D. varsity .. . he is of Irish-German de­scent, and hails from Chicago, 111. . . . played football and basketball at Fenwick High in Oak Park, 111., receiving three lettei's in the former sport, four in the latter . . . this Commerce student is a fan of the English author Rudyard Kipling . . . spends free time following his hobbies of base­ball, bowling, and swimming . . . 
ALBERT J. KOHANOWICH .. . a Junior end from Hempstead, L. I., Al is 21, 6'1", and weighs 189 .. . he is a two-sports man at Notre Dame, being a broad-jumper and high-jumper on the track team in Winter and Spring . . . this Physical Education major had his biggest athletic thrill when he scored on an 80-yard pass play from scrim­mage in the first play of the game against Brooklyn Prep . . . captain of football and track teams in high school . . . counts Southern Methodist as his toughest game . . . 
JOHN E. MAZUR . . . first string quarterback of the Irish this year likes playing on offense best. . . proves this by his passing and field strategy . . . upholds the Fighting Irish tradition, being of Polish descent .. . he is a three-year monogram man . . . after graduating in June with a major in Phys. Ed., he hopes to play some pro football, then go on to a career in coaching . . . admires Sid Luck-man and Johnny Lujack, former Notre Dame Ail-Amer­ican quarterback . . . home is Plymouth, Pa. . . . 
JAMES H. HAMBY . . . a<. Senior philosophy major in the College of Arts and Letters . . . although originally from Arkansas, Jim's home town is Caruthersville, Mo. . . . he experienced his greatest athletic thrill in scoring a touchdown while playing center for Caruthersville High School . . . Jim is a member of the AROTC . . . his favorite subject is French, his favorite book, "Napoleon the Great" .. . of French-German descent, Jim is 6'2", weighs 205 pounds .... a monogram winner in his Sophomore year . . . he prefers playing defense and likes to read in his spare time ... 
Football Review 

W:
ARTHUR J. HUNTER .. . an English Hungarian Sopho­more center from Akron, Ohio . . . Art is an 18-year-old Commerce student . . . his favorite subject is Spanish, his favorite book, Homer's "Odyssey" . . . while playing for St. Vincent High in Akron, Ohio, he faced his present teammates Bob Toneff and Bob Kapish in a game with Barberton, Ohio . . . Art earned seven letters, two in base­ball, three in basketball, and two in football, at St. Vincent .. . he is 6'3" and weighs 213 pounds . . . his ambition is to become a wealthy industrialist . . . his athletic hero is Otto Graham . . . 
ROBERT M. O'NEIL .. . a Junior end of Italian-Irish parentage .. . he hails from a little town just outside of Pittsburgh, Bridgeville, Pa. .. . Bob is majoring in business administration in the Notre Dame College of Commerce .. . he has distinguished himself on the defensive platoon . . he formerly attended the University of Duquesne . . . 
*i3ob won ten letters at Lincoln High, three in football, three in baseball, two in soccer, and two in basketball and was captain of the baseball and basketball teams .. . he is 6'1" and weighs 193 pounds . . . 
DAVID M. FLOOD .. . a Junior defensive halfback known for his speed, he once ran the hundred yard dash against Mel Patton, and was beaten by only a foot, though Patton covered the distance in 9.5 seconds . . . Dave, a physical education major from Pittsburgh, plans to play pro football after graduation and then get a coaching job ... he is 24 years old, 5'10" tall and weighs 185 pounds .. . Dave came to Notre Dame from the Smoky City's Langley High, where he won 15 varsity letters, four of which were in football... 
VIRGIL J. BARDASH .. . a product of Horace Mann High in Gary, Ind., the six-foot, 210-pound Rumanian lists the first time he played for Notre Dame as his most memor­able athletic event... he is a Junior in the College of Com­merce and is majoring in marketing .. . in high school, Virge,-"who--play,ed,.tackle, fulfilled the lineman's dream when he caught a blocked pass and galloped 54 yards for a touchdown . . . after graduation he "would like to play pro ball for a while and then go into marketing" .. . his toughest game this year came against the Spartans of Michigan State .. . 
FRANK F. MANGIALARDI . . . another of the many Chicago boys on the squad, "Fred," as he prefers to be called, is a Sophomore end from St. Philip's High in the Windy City .. . his favorite course is Naval Science, which he is taking as a member of the Notre Dame Unit of the NEOTC .. . he is a pre-law student and hopes to become a tax attorney .. . in high school, the GT' 195-pounder won five letters, three in football, two in basketball . . . his toughest game this year came against the Mustangs of SMU . . . 
December 7, 1951 
MENIL MAVRAIDES .. . the "toe" of this year's Irish squad, Menil calls Lowell, Mass., his home . . . although skilled at place-kicking the ball, "Minnie" can also catch it and likes to break up end runs .. . he is 6'1" and tips the scales at 202 pounds . . . Menil is of Greek descent, and has his own cheering section, as he is one of 11 children .. . he wants to enter law school upon completion of his undergraduate work , . . Shakespeare is his favorite author and for an athletic idol he chooses Ted Williams . . . 
JOSEPH R. BUSH . . . the last of three brothers to play for the Irish, the 19-year-old. 6'3" 203-pound tackle came to Notre Dame from St. Ambrose Academy in Davenport, Iowa . . . his oldest brother, Mike, plaj'^ed end on the Irish teams of 1944-45 . . . his other brother. Jack, is a Senior halfback on this year's varsity . . . Joe earned eight letters* as a prep, four in football, two each in basketball and track . . . Joe's hobbj* is record playing and he especially enjoys the classics . . . hails from Oak Park, 111. . . . 
ROBERT TONEFF . . . "Moose" was the opponents' big worry about the Irish line this year .. . at Barberton (Ohio) High, Bob won three letters in football and track and was an all-state tackle in 1947 .. . He likes to scrim­mage and hates the thought of having to sit out a practice . . . Bob is majoring in physical education and wants to do a little coaching after a few years in the pro league . . . he is 6'r' and weighs a compact 235 pounds . . . his brother and Jim Martin are his athletic heroes , . . 
WALTER K. CABRAL .. . a native of Honolulu, Hawaii, singles out surfboarding on giant 15 foot waves among his most interesting experiences . . . this tall Freshman end first learned football in true barefoot Hawaiian fashion, but soon graduated to shoes and all-star honors when he attended St. Louis High in Honolulu . . . Walt, who is of Hawaiian-Portuguese descent, is a physical education major who came to Notre Dame because he liked the school spirit. . . 
PAUL R. REYNOLDS .. . a Freshman student in the College of Engineering, Paul quickly earned himself a position at halfback in the Irish offensive backfield .. . at Catholic Boys High in Springfield, 111., he captained the football team in his Senior year while at the same time earning a position on the All-State team . . . Ralph Kiner rates as Paul's athletic hero, and he remembers playing on the city championship team in his Junior year as his top athletic thrill . . . 
Football Review 

RALPH V. GUGLIELMI . . . steadily improved through­out his first season at Notre Dame until he earned the starting quarterback post against North Carolina .. . of Italian descent. "Gugs" earned ten letters at Grandview High School in Columbus, perennial Central Ohio Confer­ence athletic champs, as he rose to be a standout perform­er in football, baseball, and basketball . . . hunting and fishing are his chief hobbies, and he is an Arts and Letters student loking forward to the dentistry profession . . . 
EUGENE P. CARRABINE . . . came this year from Emerson High in Gary, Ind., hometown of other Irish greats such as Bill Flynn .. . is of Irish descent and has five brothers and one sister .. . in addition to winning seven letters in high school he earned a place on the All-State­team last year . . . now interested primarily in getting a good sound education in Commerce, Gene has set having a successful, happy family as his goal in life .. . he singles out mathematics as his favorite course and likes to relax in his spare time by listening to popular music 
WILLIAM C. BARRETT . . . River Forest, 111 a hard running back. Bill has been a victim of the injury jinx two 73mM years in a row, . . . Sidelined after three games of the '50 season, he was injured in a practice session right after the Michigan State game this year. .. . A Senior Commerce student majoring in Business Administration, Bill plans a mixture of business and coaching after graduation. .. . He names his game-winning touchdown against SMU in 1949 as his greatest spoi-ts thrill... 
JOSEPH L. HEAP .. . a 5'11", 175-pound, 19-year-old Freshman halfback . . . attended Holy Cross High in New Orleans, where he was a seven-letter man .. . he won four of these-in. football and three in track .. . in his Senior year Joe had his biggest athletic thrill—^winning four first places in a Louisiana State track meet . . . although he prepped in New Orleans, his home town is Albita Springs, La. . . . his environment led him to choose hunting and fishing as hobbies, but his aim in life is to become a cattle rancher . . . 
FIDEL J. GANDER .. . a Chicago Senior Del was a monogram winner in his Sophomore year .. . he prepped at Mount Carmel in Chicago under the present coach of Irish tackles, Bob McBride .. . in his first game there he scored four touchdowns . . . went on to win three letters in football and track . . . just playing in an ND uniform was his biggest sports thrill . . . when he gets a chance, he plies his hobby of hunting and fishing .. . to match his last name, Del's friends call him "Goose" .. . he is 6'1", 196 pounds, 21 years old . . . 
December 7, 1951 
!?1 
Frown Friday 
Text by ^faeh Varley 
When the game is over on Saturday afternoon the fans stream out of the stadium commenting on the plays and the penalties and for a couple of hours the game is played over and over again with very little serious thought to the game of the following week. 
However for the players, the assistant coaches and head coach Frank Leahy their thoughts are immediately focused upon that "next one". 
Their preparation ended for the most part Friday afternoon. Whatever was to be ironed out had to be done by then because the show started that night. There could be no moi'e rehearsals for the football weekend commenced that night at the pep rally with the head coach addressing the students and guests 
(1). 
Then Saturday, the main act—the game—^with its color and excitement went on. And as the teams fought up and down the field, the head coach paced nervously and fretted whe'n the op­position got into Notre Dame territory, beamed happily as his lads drove across the goal (2). 
After the game, in the dressing room, Leahy sat almost stunned as newspaper­men and well wishers crowded about him (3). Peering into his cup of coifee. 

To Friday 
Photos 

he commented on the game to the press and thanked his followers for stopping in . . . but now the next game. 
Monday, Leahy and his assistants be­gin to prepare for the following Satur­day. They examine movies of games already played by their opponents (4) and at the coaches' meeting (5) Leahy and his assistants plot their strategy so as to stop the opponent's attack and take advantage of his weaknesses. 
. During the week some of the press cover the practices to report the pro­gress of the team (6). Probably the closest followers of Irish football among the fourth estate are Joe Doyle, (1), 
by Jerry Sheehan 
sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and Joe Boland (r) sports director of radio station WSBT. Almost any day in the week they can be seen questioning Leahy on the condition of the team and watching as he instructs the players (7). 
After practice Leahy returns to his office in Breen-Phillips and with his sec­retary, Frank Sullivan, starts his "home work" (8). He works out defenses and mm offenses on the blackboard in his office 
(9) and attends to paper work (10) that may carry him long into the night .. . so that the Fighting Irish will have the best opportunity he can give them to be victorious the following Saturday. 
PAUL E. BURNS . . . Athens. Pa. .. . a graduate of Athens High, Paul played football two years there and one year at Aquinas Institute in Rochester, N. Y. . . . a Commerce Senior, he has played both offensive and de­fensive guard for Coach Leahy . . . his biggest thrill: just meeting that same coach and also playing the first game for Notre Dame . . . his main ambition is to play pro ball after his graduation this year .. . a shoulder separation in mid-season cut short Paul's playing days at Notre Dame. . . . Paul, 21, is 6'2^ 196 pounds . . . 
FRANK J. VARRICHIONE .. . a Freshman guard from Natick, Mass. . . . 19-year-old Frank is an education major in the College of Arts and Letters . . . the Italian-American lad is six feet tall and weighs 210 pounds . . . while attend­ing Natick High, he lettered three times in football and also in baseball and track . . . Frank plans a teaching-coaching career following his graduation . . . his biggest thrill was meeting Frank Leahy . . . 
THOMAS. F. MURPHY . . . president of Breen-Phillips Hall in his Freshman year, this Irish 6'1", 210-pound tackle is an Arts and Letters Junior majoring in economics with an eye towards law . . . his home is in Chicago where he attended St. George High in Evanston . . . played against fellow teammate Billy Barrett, who then attended Fen­wick . . . likes French, steaks and photography . . . calls last year's Southern California game his toughest. . . Tom is a member of the campus Air Force ROTC unit.'. , 
SAMUEL PALUMBO .. . a Freshman guard of Italian descent . . . Sam is from Cleveland, Ohio .. . he attended Collinwood High, where he won letters in football and basketball three seasons each .. . he was captain of the prep football squad in 19.50 .. . in his leisure time he likes to read ... 19 years of age . . . weighs in at 195 and is six feet even. . . . Sam also goes under the alias of "Butch," possibly because of the crew cut he sports . .. "Butch" saw lots of action on this vear's defensive unit . . . 
^^gjS-^:^;^> 

WILLIAM L. GAUDREAU .. . a Junior from Baltimore, Md., Bill followed in the footsteps of last year's All-Amer­ican quarterback Bob Williams at Loyola High in Balti­more -, . there, Bill was a three-sport man, winning letters in football, basketball, and tennis . . . his quarterbacking at Notre Dame this year was devoted to defensive work in the Irish secondary . . . "Goody" is 6'!'', 180 pounds . . . 20 years old, he is of Irish-French extraction and one of six children . . . Bill is majoring in architectural engineer­ing— relaxes by sailing, reading, or listening to music .. . 
Football Review 

ROBERT H. TAYLOR . . . calls Pekin, 111., his home town .. . a second-semester Freshman, Bob plays at guard .. . he likes mechanics, his hobby being working on cars . . . Bob is also quite a wrestler, with a second place in the Illinois state heavyweight tournament to his credit . . . he aspires someday to be an engineer . . . Bob is 6'2" tall and weighs 215 pounds . . . won three letters in football, three in wrestling, and one in track in his prep days . . . calls getting lost in the Grand Canyon once his roughest experience .. . 
THOMAS F. McHUGH . . . hails from Toledo, Ohio . . . a 19-year-old Sophomore . . . picked physical education as his major .. . he works from the fullback slot on the Irish squad . . . played his high school football at Central Cath­olic High in Toledo, where he won a total of eig-ht letters, three in football, three in basketball and one each in track and baseball .. . in basketball, Tom played on a team that went to the state finals in 1949 . . . names biology as his favorite course . . . Tom measures 6'1", weig-hs 195 pounds . . . 
JAMES L. SCHRADER . . . Irish-English-German Soph­omore center from Carnegie, Pa. . . . Jim is 19 and is majoring in domestic marketing in the Commerce school .. . he is 6'2", weighs 208 pounds .. . his favorites are English, swimming and hunting .. . a graduate of Scott Township High in Carnegie, Jim earned three letters in football and two in basketball there . . . his pet peeve is "drugstore quarterbacks" . . . "Benjie," as he's been nick­named, considers coming to ND as his biggest thrill . . . 
THOMAS J. SEAMAN .. . 20 years of age, 5'11" tall and weighs 198 pounds .. . a Junior in the Commerce course .. . he took over a first-string guard berth in mid-season .. . he hails from Lincoln High in Canton, Ohio . . . as captain of their team, he rated All-State honors in his Senior year .. . he rates last year's Tulane g-ame as one of the toughest. . . Tom is still undecided what his occupa­tion will be after he graduates, but he figures on keeping busy raising a family of ten kids . . . 
CHESTER C. OSTROWSKI . . . playing his last year of football in an Irish uniform, Chet switched first to guard and then back to end . . . he'd like to play some pro ball after graduation .. . an Arts and Letters history major, he'd also like to try his hand at teaching history sometime in the future .. . a product of Chicago's Weber High, he picked up six football and basketball letters before gradu­ation . . . his favorite readings are Hamlet and the works of Edgar Allen Poe . . . Chet is 21, %'V' tall, and weighs 197 pounds . . . 
December 7, 1951 
ROBERT J. KELLY .. . a Junior tackle of Irish descent. 
'^^wm 

Bob is from Duluth, Minn. .. . in high school at Duluth Catholic, he was a fullback . . . also won letters in golf, hockey, boxing, skiing, and basketball... he missed spring practice this year because of an operation . . . won a mono­gram last year as a Sophomore playing the defensive end position . . . Bob's idol is Leon Hart . . . his favorite course in the College of Commerce is history .. . He is 6'2", 200 pounds . . . 
\ " ^ -SI ^s>. •^ye*'®^^^. 
JOHN PAUL LEE .. . a Freshman guard, he is called "Dutchy" in spite of his Irish descent . . . hails from Med-f ord. Mass he went to Catholic High in Maiden, Mass., where he won three letters in three seasons of football . . . also played hockey . . . Dutchy's idol in athletics is Milt Schmidt, a hockey ace . . . "Northwest Passage" is his favorite book . , . like many Notre Dame athletes, his biggest sports thrill is just being able to play for the Irish . . . Dutchy is 19 years old . . . weighs 190 . . . is 5'11'' . . . 
JAMES F. ALESSANDRINI .. . a Junior guard of Ital­ian descent . . . "Jack" hails from Charleston, W. Va. . . . graduated from Catholic High in Charleston . . . won ten letters in football, basketball and baseball... he saw some action last year in the Irish lineup, and notched another place for himself on the Notre Dame squad this year . . . a student in the College of Commerce . . . math is his favorite subject . . . swimming is his favorite pastime . . . he is 20 years of age . . . 5'ir', weighs 198 pounds . . . 
DANIEL J. SHANNON . . . another of the first year men who was equal to the difficult task of stepping directly from high school to varsity collegiate football, seeing a great deal of time as a defensive linebacker .. . a student in the College of Comm'erce, Dan's favorite subject is ac­counting . . . under his athletic hero and coach, Terry Brennan, Notre Dame grid star of a few years ago, Dan earned All-State honors in his Senior year at Mount Car­mel High in Chicago , . . 
^m^k. 

THOMAS F. CAREY .. . a member of last year's Mount Carmel High football team, Chicago City Champs, and a former teammate of Dan Shannon, he remembers playing in Soldier's Field for the championship as his biggest thi-ill ... in addition to football, Tom was a member of the wrest­ing team in high school, earning four letters in that sport .. . an Engineering Freshman . . . though his hobbies include swimming and fishing he will have little to do with sea food .. . a steak man, he . . . Edgar Allen Poe is his favorite author; Charlie Trippi, his athletic hero . . . 
Football Review 

FREDERICK C. POEHLER . . . known as "Rick" by his classmates and teammates, Fred hails from Jackson, Mich. . . . Fred is 6'4", 210 pounds and is an air force veteran 20 years of age .. . a ten-letter man while participating in football, basketball, and baseball in high school. Rick played center on the Jackson High 1948 team which won the Michigan championship . . . the big German Soph­omore is majoring in pre-medicine and served a year and a half as a surgical technician . . . his biggest thrill was playing in an All-Anny basketball tournament in Wash­ington, D. C.. . . 
RICHARD F. SZYMANSKI . . . came to Notre Dame for his first year this fall from Tibbey High School in Toledo, Ohio .. . a Commerce student, "Peaches" is of Polish descent. . . won seven letters in high school, three in base­ball and two each in football and basketball... in addition to being co-captain of the state champion football team, he earned prep AIl-American honors in his Senior year . . . a center, his biggest high school athletic thrill came in beating Hamilton High, second in the state when they met .. . Ted Williams is his athletic hero . . . 
NEIL J. WORDEN . . . Sophomore fullback from Mil­waukee, Wis. . . . "Sull" came from the ranks of last year's great Freshman squad to become the "workhorse" of this year's Irish ^backfield .. . 19 y'ears old, he is one of the many "youngsters" that sportswriters said would make this year's Irish greener than ever before .. . at Pulaski High in Milwaukee- he earned nine letters, four in football, three in basketball, and two in track .. . he won All-State honors in Wisconsin for football in 1949 .. . Neil, at 5'11", 187 pounds, looks small for a fullback . . . 
ROBERT E. READY .. . a tackle and an Ai-ts and Letters Freshman . . . Bob hails from Lowell, Mass. . . . the 12 let­ters he won at Lowell High were divided equally among football, basketball, and baseball . . . captained the cage squad in his senior year . . . Irish Bob played in two high school bowl games in 1948 and '49, names that feat as his most memoi-able prep experience . . . names Lou Gehrig as his athletic hero, Tolstoy's "War and Peace" as his favorite book .. . his brother Roger just finished his fourth season on South Carolina's grid team . . . 
FRANCIS F. PATERRA . . . this Sophomore student in the College of Arts and Letters played his first year on the Irish varsity as a halfback . . . comes from McKeesport, Pa., where he excelled in football, baseball, and track at McKeesport Tech High . . . spent last summer at Parris Island, where the U.S. Marine Corps has a training camp, and holds the stripes of a corporal in the Marine Reserve . . . Slingin' Sammy Baugh is Frank's football idol. . . . Now 20, Frank has come a long way since he was struck 
by rheumatic fever at the age of six .. . 
. '*^i..s( ~'~"' 
i^^M 

December 7, 1951 
>-*^'^»£i^/'--V*si.'^ ^ i«» ^.^ ^t;Vl^-^aA'ii^(^^^^^^ 
•:.^,a;.-yf»y^t-«rsg.va ^M^ii^l2i£iiis£5M^ 

9 
9 

m enew 
F
RANK LEAHY came to Notre Dame as head 
football coach in 1941, and during- nine 
seasons since that time has had five undefeated 
teams and three national champions. He boasts 
a winning percentage of over .800, and a 39 
game string without a defeat, extending from 
1946 through the first game of the 1950 season. 
Born Aug. 27, 1908, in O'Neill, Nev., Leahy 
was raised in Winner, S. Dak., and Omaha, Neb. 
He entered Notre Dame in 1927, and by 1929 
was first string tackle on Knute Rockne's 
national championship team. 
After g]-aduation Leahy spent the next eight 
years as line coach at Georgetown, Michigan 
State, and Fordham. He went to Boston Col­
lege in 1939 as head coach, and when Elmer 
Layden resigned in 1941, Leahy was named 
head coach of his alma mater. 
In Leahy's first season at Notre Dame he 
fashioned an undefeated, once-tied team which 
earned him the Coach of the Year award. In 
1943 he won his first national championship 
with a record of nine wins and one loss. Return­
ing from Naval service, his teams began their 
victory string in 1946, winning national cham­
pionships in 1946, 1947, and 1949, and placing 
second in 1948. 
Leahy lives in Michigan City, Ind., with his 
wife, the former Miss Florence Reilly of Brook­
lyn, N. Y., and their seven children, four boys 
and three girls. 
December 7, 1951 
E
DWARD W. KRAUSE is in his third year as Irish athletic director and his eighth at Notre Dame, during which time he has been head basketball coach, assistant football coach, and assistant athletic director in addition to his present position. 
He was born in Chicago on Feb. 2, 1913, and attended LaSalle High School there, where he picked up his now-famous nickname "Moose." The name stuck when he came to Notre Dame in 1930, and, though many subsequent N. D. All-Americans have held the title, Krause was the original "Moose." 
After graduation he coached at St. Maiy's College in Winona, Minn., and then at Holy Cross. He returned to Notre Dame in 1942 as football line coach and, when George Keogan died that winter, took over as head basketball coach. After two years in the Marines he re­turned to Notre Dame in 1946, and in 1948 was named assistant director of athletics. In 1949 he became dii'ector of athletics, but continued to coach the Irish basketball team until last Spring when, in his own words, "The athletic director fired the basketball coach," and ap­pointed Johnny Jordan to succeed him. 
Krause, who has no immediate plans other than remaining at Notre Dame as athletic director as long as possible, was married Aug. 27, 1938, to the former Miss Elizabeth Linden of Chicago. They have three sons. 
WILLIAM JOSEPH EARLEY . . . Born in Parkersburg, W. Va., on Aug. 31, 1921. . . . Entered Notre Dame in 1939 and won football monograms in 1940, 1941, and 1942. . . . Received his degree in journalism from the College of Arts and Letters in February, 1943, and at the same time was inducted into the Army Air Force. . . . Served as a bombardier in a B-24 in Italy, winning the Dis­tinguished Fljang Cross with one cluster, the Air Medal with four clusters, and the Purple Heart. . . . Was discharged in 1945 with the rank of captain. . . . Came back to Notre Dame in 1946 as assistant backfield coach and "B" squad mentor. . . . After that season Leahy switched him to varsitj'- backfield coaching on a full-time basis. . . . Earlej'- coached his j'-ounger brother Fred, the Irish place-kicking expert, during the 1946 and 1947 seasons. . . . Has another younger brother burning up the West Virginia high school gridirons. .. . On Feb. 18, 1943- Bill was married to Miss Louise Katherine Schilling of Parkersburg. . . . The Barleys have two children—a son, Michael Henry, and a daughter, Cathy Louise. 
BERNARD ANTHONY CRIMMINS . . . Leahy's backfield coach since 1946 .. . He was the first Notre Dame football player to win a letter at three different positions, at right halfback, fullback, and guard . . . It was in Bernie's Senior year, and Leahy's first as Irish coach, that he made the switch to guard, and was an almost unanimous choice on the 1941 All-American elevens at that position .. . He was a Business Ad­ministration major in those days, and graduated in May, 1942 . . . After a brief coaching period, Crimmins entered the Notre Dame Mid­shipman School in October, 1942, and was commissioned an ensign Jan. 28, 1943 .. . In South Pacific PT boat action. Crimmins won the Silver Star, Presidential Citation, Philippine Liberation medal, and three battle stars for his Asiatic-Pacific ribbon .. . Discharged from the Navy as a full lieutenant on Sept. 28, 1945, and returned to Notre Dame as Leahy's assistant . . . Now spends his Saturdays in the press box, picking holes in opponent's defenses and relaying tip-offs to the bench by telephone. . . . Was married to Miss Dorothj^ Linnig of Louis­ville, Ky., on F.eb. 7, 1948, and has two children, Michael and Patrick Kevin. . . . Calls Louisville his home. . . 
JOHN FRANCIS DRUZE . . . First met Leahy while playing under him at Fordham. . . , Played almost 60 minutes of end in every game of the 1935, 1936, and 1937 seasons, and was one of the famous Ford­ham "Seven Blocks of Granite" ... Also was varsity baseball first base­man, and as a freshman won his numerals in basketball. . . . Graduated with a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1938, and the follow­ing season played for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the National Football League. . . . Was signed as Leahy's end coach at Boston College in 1939, and came to Noti-e Dame after the war in the same capacity, . . . Another Navy man, Druze was commissioned an ensign in 1942 and saw combat in both the Atlantic and Pacific theaters, participating in the Layte landing and the rest of the Philippine invasion. .. . In the Atlantic the Escort Carrier on which he was stationed was credited with sinking two German submarines. . , . Druze was born in Newark, 
N. J., and later moved to Irvington, N. J., where he captained the foot­ball, basketball, and baseball teams in his senior year of high school. ... Married Miss Rose Stocki of Newark in 1942, and has one daughter. 
Football Reviejf 

JOSEPH ANDREW McARDLE . . . Guard coach at Notre Dame since 1941. . . . Known to the squad as "Captain Bligh" . . . Another Fordham man, Joe played under Jim Crowley and Frank Leahy in 1933 and 1934. . . . Was a three-year football letterman, although he only weighed 170 pounds. . . . Went into business after graduating in 1935, first as advertising solicitor and promotion man for the New York World-Telegram, then as an insurance salesman. . . . Went to Boston College as center and guard coach when Leahy became head coach there in 1939. . . . Followed Leahy to Notre Dame in March of 1941. . . . Entered the Navy on April 15, 1942 as a Lieutenant (jg). . . . Saw ten months service in the Pacific, nine of them on the aircraft carrier Wasp, and has two battle stars. . . . Was almost strafed by a Jap plane on the last day of the war. . . . Was married on May 24, 1942 to Miss Eleanor Sullivan of Lowell, Mass., which was also his home town. . . . They have four children, two boys and two girls. . , . McArdle's biggest football thrill came in 1933 when he blocked a Bucknell punt for a safety, the only scoring he did in his career. 
WALTER JOHN ZIEMBA . . . Notre Dame center coach, was born in Hammond, Ind., on July 19, 1919. . . . Entered Notre Dame in 1939 after starring in football, basketball, and track at Hammond High School. . . . Earned his letter at tackle in his sophomore yeai-, and was switched to center when Leahy took over the Irish. . . . Earned All-American honors on several teams in his senior year, 1942. . . . Found time to win a track monogram as a shot-putter in his senior year. . . . Wally was called into the Marines after gi'aduation, reporting to the Parris Island Officer's Training School, but was discharged after several weeks because of physical disability. . .•. Played in the Chicago All-Star game in August, 1943, and then joined the N.D. coaching staff. . . . Also served as assistant basketball coach for a time, but now concentrates on Irish football centers.... Illness kept him out of action for a big part of the 1950 season, but this year Ziemba returned to full-time duty. . . . Was married on January 6, 1945, to the former Miss Julia Krukowski of Hammond, and has one child, a daughter. 
ROBERT JAMES McBRIDE . . . Tackle coach and latest addition to the coaching staff. . . . Born in Lancaster, Ohio, on Sept. 6, 1922, and entered Notre Dame in 1940. . . . Played fullback in high school but switched to guard here and won monograms in 1941 and 1942. . . . Entered the Army in the Spring of 1943 and went overseas as a machine gun squad leader He was captured by the Germans in the Battle of the Bulge and held till April 16, 1945, when he was liberated. 
-. . During his imprisonment. Bob shrank from 213 pounds to 114. . . . Eeturned to Notre Dame in 1946 and won another monogram on the national championship eleven that fall. . . . Became coach of Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago after graduation in 1947, where he remained for two years. . . . Was named to Leahy's coaching staff in 1949. .. . A believer in the "actions speak louder than words" maxim, McBride likes to mix it with his tackles, and personally demonstrates the fine points of line play. . . . Only missed one day of practice while playing for the Irish. 'Twas Sept. 6, 1946, his birthday and the day Tiiis wife gave birth to their first child. . . . The McBride's now have four children, two boys and two girls. .. . His wife is the fomier Miss Mary Stein of Lancaster, Ohio. 
December 7, 1951 
wmmm^mww^^^^m^^m^^^^Si^^l^^i^S^^^ISWI^totiiBfeifey^Si^^^^^S 
.#^">s 
"*i 
%i­
'•-31 
g«?.­
.j«:r 
•::viv4^ 
^^•s »§: •

^€.--a' 
•JW^ ^^ 

Bee Squad, Directed by Former Gridders,  
Molds Untried Freshmen Into Varsity Stars  Travel  Comfort  
By BILL LONDO  PLUS  

There is an old saying in sporting 
circles that a team is only as good 
as its reserves. Collegiate football, 
perhaps more than any other sport, 
bears out the truth of this. Every 
year graduation and injuries take near­
ly a quarter of the average college 
squad, and thus it is the subs of one 
season that are the starters of the 
next. 
For this reason Notre Dame has 
anotlier football team besides the one 
that thrills thousands each fall Satur­
day. The team is known by various 
names—the scrubs, the bee squad, the 
reserves—each implying some sort of 
gridiron immaturity. But it is from 
this squad that the stars of tomor­
row come. 
This year, under the direction of 
three former Irish grid performers, 
Dick Cotter, Bob Lally, and Gene 
Smith, the reserves were a screening 
group for freshmen who had not been 
invited out for football, but wanted 
to try to make the team. 
Lally, who has the unique distinction of never having played in a losing game in either high school or college, handled the linemen. A guard and line­backer in his playing days as a member of the undefeated '47, '48, and '49 Ii'ish, Lally is in the Notre Dame Col­lege of Law. 
Cotter was one of tlte mainstays of Coach Leahy's 1950 eleven. Starting the year as a linebacker, he developed into one of the team's better runners during the latter half of the season. Smith, who helped Cotter with the backs, was also a member of the '50 team. 
These three graduates of the Leahy school drilled the reserves every day with the hope of turning some of the unpolished material into varsity com­petitors. 
The team, augmented by members of the lower varsity strings, did play three games against reserve outfits of other schools, losing to Illinois and Tennessee, and tying Purdue. Two scheduled tilts with Michigan State were postponed because of the Novem­ber snows. 
The Illinois game, played early in September, saw the green Irish beaten 21-7 by one of the best Bee squads in the Big Ten. Quarterback Tom Martin and defensive halfback Pat Galvin were outstanding in defeat. 
In the Purdue clash a driving rain 
storm drenched Cartier Field and ham-
December 7, 1951 
pered both teams. Notre Dame scored on a pass from Martin to Steve Go­tnola in the first quarter, but the junior Boilermakers tied the game in the third period on. a plunge by Lou Kerestes, brother of former Purdue star, John Kerestes. 
Tennessee routed the reseixes mth a blistering pass attack in the second half, after Bobby Joseph of the Irish had scored the first touchdown. The final score was 38-7 in favor of the Vols who matched their varsity broth­ers' record by finishing undefeated. 
Among the standoiits in the line were: Dave Meagher, St. Cloud, Minn., Mickey Valerio, Bridgeport, Pa., John Kurtz, Des Moines, Iowa, and Jim Ward, Scarsdale, N. J. Galvin, who hails from Detroit, Mich., was the de­fensive mainstay. 
Halfbacks Billy Standlee, Garden City, N. Y., Burt Metzger, Chicago, 111., Tom Meglan, Cleveland, Ohio, and Jon Tyson, Miwela, Texas, fullback Pete Regen, Montclair, N. J., and quarter­back Jim Bigalow, Pittsburgh, Pa., paced the backfield candidates. 
The varsity men who formed the backbone of the squad in the games were Joseph, Martin, Don Bianco, Jim Dunlay, Joe Caprara, Jim Weithman, Art Nowak, Bob Eigali, and Ed Bucz­kiewicz. 
SAFETY AND SAVINGS WHEN YOU 
Go By Train 

ON YOUR HOLIDAY TRIP 
IT'S MORE FUN! Plan your holi­day homecoming by train with a group of friends. Enjoy real comfort... wonderful dining car meals .. . room to roam around and relax. 
YOU CAN DEPEND On. getting home as planned—and getting back after vacation as well. Day in day out the railroads offer you worry-free travel. 
SAVE MONEY! Get together 25 
or more, all heading home in 
the same direction at the same 
time. You may return indi­
vidually. Then go GROUP 
COACH PLAN, and each save 
up to 45% compared to one­
way coach tickets! 
Ask your Local Railroad Agent Now 
about group or single round-trip savings! 
EASTERN RAILROADS 
.'.-.^^'v^'i'ii'i'ii lift IIMV I MHHWm 
37 

'?;^^^^^?^^!^^??m^^^!^^^^7^^^:^^^^m^^i^m^^^^^^^m. 
a:llOOOOr^OO(NOOOVO  O O O O O O O r o O O i T i O O O  0\(Nr-l  00  (N  (N  
OOOtNOO-^OOOu^  OOOOOOOCNOCvJrriOOO  0\  VO  c  
OVOOOOOOOOOOO O00 00 i^  OOOrnrriOOi^-<J-00000 ,—1 r-H ,—I 00  0\Tt­  0\  00  c  
OrJ-oOOVOOOOolOO  OOO—^cSOOfAi/NOOOOO  (N  rci  
^  O I ^ O O O O O O O O I T N O  ^ C\  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  C \ 00  O  O  O  O  C  \  0  -HO• ^  O  'S­— I  o _o  
0 ^ r ^ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 — l O O  0000000'<J-OOOOr-i O  .-I  00  c re  
z u  o'Oooooooo>/^o^^I^oov^lT^ovol^ooO'—'O"—I <VN CMlTN^—1 O O OOO tN'-< -^ .—I rr\ (N t—1 .—1 OOOOOOOOOOtNOOO (NOOOirNO>-i00V0OO'-^Ors tN '—I '—I O O O ' -O O O O 0 0 O O r r i O > ^ O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O -^ O O O O t N O O O O O O O O O O O O  VO^00^\0  rf\  (N  C\  <N  C\  Q Zm m Z H oO a, 2 a, O Q m  u 1­1 re U re u  
u  ooorvooooi\oo.-ioooooooooooooo o  00  0\  > O u  2 b  
OOO^OOOOr(-iPi^O<NOOOC3000^HOc>OOOC3 > o o o :oqo :rt;ir\po :-^OO<NOI^OOOOOI~-;< I' O ro O 'rf^o •Trir\ir\0 ••^O0u-\0^t--<l-0000ro O O 00 (N ^ tN "^'­1 rf\  CO m CQ 2 D  « C« P CO  
z u  OOtNI^OVOCNIOCNVO '-'Oooc\ooooor^>r\oooovo — I 1 i ­^ m VO <N I ^ 00\^^0-^^0—iootNOQOrriI^OOO\OOOrAOOOO^ •~VO ^ ­H tN n-v VO cN ^ -tj­ o\ 00 OOOOOOVOOVOrMrriVOrNlOOOfSVOOO-^OOOOOOOO fA ••—irf\r^'—i'­^ CSi—1 •^ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 r -< 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  o o <N -Hr-j ( N T—t (N ^  u-CO H 2 m Z o a, a, O  rr\ -S a, c . o n c re CO  
O O O O O O O O O O r r i O O v O O O O O O O O O O O O O  <N <N  CJ C 4-1  
OirNOOOO^HO"—itNOVOOrAOcN^^OO'^rAOOOOOO  VO 00  Qm  
VO  >O u w  
^  • c  ^  « J  ^ !« s ­? i  I ""^  § 2  § i ^  c g  c/3 2 CO 2< O o Cu a,O  < ^ Q 2 m g O O G. 2 O [XI D  CO m CQ U-, 00 H 2 tu 2 2  
O  

•fw*y< t»y.».''!*'''it»»^jr»«'»*r<g(«i 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irisli Team of 1951 
FIRST ROW (from left to right): Joe Borges (mgr.), Bob Toneff, John Mazur, Joe Caprara, Bob Kapish, Jim Hamby, Jim Mutscheller (capt.), Del Gander, John Petitbon, Tony Zambroski, Jack Bush, Chet Ostrowski, and Bill Doyle (mgr.). SECOND ROW: Don Penza, Walt Cabral, Art Hunter, Virgil Bardash, John Lattner, Jim Schroder, Dave Flood, Joe Heap, Tom Murphy, Ddn Shannon, Jack Alessandrini, Dick Szyman­ski, Bill Gaudreau, and Tom McHugh. THIRD ROW: Joe Bush, Jim Weithman, Paul Robst, Leonard Cyterski, Paul Reynolds, Rockne Morrissey, Menil Mavraides, Fran Paterra, Gene Carrobine, Frank Varrichione, Don Bianco, Bob Joseph, Tom Seaman, Bob Kelly, and Fred Poehler. FOURTH ROW: Sam Palumbo, Don Bucci, Tony Pasquesi, Mike Tonelli, Leo Callahan, Tom Carey, Jack Whelan, Bob Taylor, Ralph Guglielmi, Paul Matz, Dick Frasor, Bob Martin, Armando Galardo, John Darago. FIFTH ROW: Fred Mangialardi, Bob O'Neil, Neil Worderi, John Lee, and Bob Ready. Bill Barrett and Paul Burns v/ere absent v/hen the picture was taken,­
The Dream Backfield 
By DICK CODY 
Stuhldreher, Crowley, Laydeii, and Miller. Lujack, Sitko, Panelli, and Brennan. Williams, Coutre, Sitko, and Barrett. Jones, Cahill, Callahan, and McAUistei. 
Wait a minute there, bud. Everyone knows about the famous Four Horse­men—even me. And that '47 Irish backfield get to be pretty well-known. And the matter is still open to discus­sion which was the greatest backfield of all time, either of those or that '49 group. But where did you dig up that last quartet? Jones, Cahill, Callahan, and McAllister, did you say? They sound like Irishmen, but I can't quite place them. Must have been before my time. 
Although such a declaration as that above falls under the heading of "Com­ments We Doubt Ever Got Commented," the reaction which those four names bring about when used in connection with Notre Dame football is a natural one, for these ai-e truly the men behind the scenes of the Irish grid fortunes. 
When out of the backfield, Jones is Herbert E. Jones, business manager of athletics. Cahill is M. Eobert Cahill, the ticket manager. Callahan is Charles Callahan, director of sports publicity. And McAllister is John W. McAllister, superintendent of equipment for all Notre Dame athletic teams. These are the quiet, efficient, hard-working men whose names never find their way into the headlines, the men on whose shoul­ders fall a great many of the prob­lems the care of a nationally-famous football team causes. 
Herb Jones, for example, attends to all the many details and arrangements which must be made before the football team makes any trip. He orders all athletic equipment, takes care of all expenses the team incurs, handles all athletic accounts, and arranges all ath­letic trips. When the Irish play an away game. Herb is the one who in­sures them comfortable hotel accom­modations, who makes sure they get those fabulous Saturday morning breakfast-lunches, and that they arrive at the game in plenty of time. 
At games played in Notre Dame's home stadium Herb's duties and cares are even more numerous. It is con­servatively estimated that approximate­ly 2,000 people help put on each game, and the business manager is the per­son who makes arrangements for most of them. The functions of these people, it has been stated, are all encompassed in the statement, "getting the fans in and out of the stadium safely, and seeing that they enjoy themselves while they are there." Parking lot attend­ants must take care of their cars. Vendei-s must see that they have all the pennants, programs, coifee, and other items they might desire. Ticket takers and ushers must get them in and 
seated with as little fuss as possible. The referees and workers on the play­ing field must insure their seeing as good and well-run a game as is pos­sible to put on. All of these are people for whom Herb Jones must provide. And as a result of his many years of capably handling just such necessary 
Business Manager Herb Jones 

business in the athletic department. Herb has become one of the most widely-known and respected figures in the world of collegiate athletics. 
A graduate of the class of '27, Herb is from Dixon, 111., and has been busi­ness manager of athletics since 1940, Avith the exception of the wartime school year of 1945-46, in which he held the position of business manager of the University. 
Work Starts in July 
Another position much the same as Herb's in the amount of work in­volved and the great anonymity outside Notre Dame is the one held by M. Robert Cahill, the University ticket manager. Like Herb, Bob's real work begine as early as the July before each football season, and consists mainly in distributing about 500,000 tickets among 300,000 football fans, in as fair a manner as is possible. It is a job, one can readily see, of almost impossible difficulties, for someone is bound to be disappointed. And of those lucky 
Irish band led by drum major Jack Totty struts into Notre Dame Stadium to begin traditional pre-game ceremonies and demonstrate the imagination of H. Lee Hope 
^T^^TM. 
>s%yg'. 
Football Review 

Cheerleading demands diligent practice 
people who do get Notre Dame ducats, a distressingly high percentage, if not actually accustomed to sitting on the 50-yard line or as near to it as possible, at least show a marked partiality for that immediate vicinity. That the ticket office receives so few post-game letters vowing to take one's business else­where is a high compliment to the efficiency of Bob CahiU and his staff, especially since football fans are often past masters of the art of writing indignant letters. 
Early in the Summer the Notre Dame ticket manager mails out applications to the many alumni, students and par­ents of students, seasonal box holder?, and any other fans who apply for them. Just answering the 500,000 requests that continually pour in is enough to keep a 14-pei-son staff busy throughout the whole Summer and much of the Fall. Trying to assign seats in or as near to the section designated by the applicant makes the job even rougher. Someone always has to sit in the end zone, but one boon to the ticket man­ager in this case is that when he says every seat is a good one, he can be 
honest about it. Besides answering the thousands of letters. Bob also stays in the box office each Saturday of a home game, prepared to deal with any com­plications that might occur. 
Like his co-worker. Herb Jones, Bob also is a native of Dixon, 111., although he received his degree from Notre Dame several years later, in 1934. 
to see the Fighting Irish. But an­other fellow behind the scenes goes to work even before they do, and their success depends to a large extent on his. For he is the guy who makes Joe Fan want to see Notre Dame play ball, who helps make the final decision on whether to see a football game or stay home and make fudge on Saturday aft­ernoons. He is the sports publicity director, and that means Charles Mar­tin Callahan. 
Without doubt, the main purpose of" the Sports Publicity office is to get publicity, and good publicity, for Notre Dame athletic teams. This is the office which put Johnny Lujack on more magazine' covers than many a movier star, and awakened the public to the plajnng ability of countless other Irish football heroes. But there are many-other functions which Callahan and Company ably perform. One of the more important concerns is that glass box which perches "high atop the Notre Dame Stadium." The press box is a. huge, modem affair which seats well over 300 writers, announcers, techni­cians, and television men. That the proper ones get in, and that they find within easy access all the materials which they might need, in fact, ma­terial they might never need, is one of Charlie's worries. Before each of the Irish home games, the sports reporter, from big paper or small, will find be­fore him programs, rosters of each of" the teams, and their various defensive and offensive lineups, often together with a book of football facts. After­wards he will receive a complete run­down of the game's statistics, both 
team and individual, and statements from the coaches. 
Aside from the actual press box op­erations, the Sports Publicity office staff must determine who is qualified to 
These are two who enable Joe Fan Ticket Manager Bob CahiU and secretary Betty Walsh' December 7, 1951 
enter the pressbox, and to mail passes to these people. • Other functions in­clude the not-inconsiderable one of sending replies to the many thousands of letters which are sent Noti'e Dame each year, asking for pictures, for autographs, for statistics fi-om the past, for explanations of new Irish plays and suggestions for the same. Each of these letters, whether favorable or not so pleasant, is answered. Perhaps they are sometimes delayed until the frantic pace of another football season has died down for another year, but they are always answered. 
The cause, the prime exponent of this thoughtful efficiency, is the Sports Pub­licity Director, Charlie Callahan. De­voted to Notre Dame and to football, Callahan's success is one reason for the favorable publicity for the Irish brand of football in magazines and papers in every part of the country. 
The fourth member of the Notre Dame backfield that nobody knows is 65-year-old John W. McAllister, the superintendent of equipment for all Noti-e Dame athletic teams. Closer to the Irish football teams and the Sta­dium than the trio whose offices can all be found in the Breen-Phillips Hall Athletic wing, Mac works in the Gym­nasium, where he has just finished his 27th year of ministering to the equip­ment needs of the Fighting Irish. But you probably wouldn't hear him talk of it, since Mac has the reputation of 
being one of the most silent men 
around these parts. 
Each day he supervises the distribu­

tion of athletic equipment to the play­
ers. This involves the caring for the 
many details of laundering, sorting 
and passing out four huge bags of 
freshly-laundered white sweat shirts, 
T-shirts, socks, and miscellaneous gear 
which must be washed daily. In addi­
tion to all this practice paraphernalia, 
regular equipment must be constantly 
kept available for possible use. 
One of Mac's largest and most detail-some assignments is preparing the equipment for all games played away from home. For these trips fully 18 large trunks must be packed and ship­ped before the team leaves, and be awaiting their use when they arrive at the other football field. Inside the trunks can be found better than a hun­dred and a quarter pairs of game shoes, four changes of unifoi*m for 36 men, 50 blankets, and five changes of the whites, in addition to the rarely-used 45 pairs of rubber rain pants. 
The 27 years in which Mac has served Notre Dame football, as weU as the many other sports whose equipment he supervises, stretching back to the early days of Eockne, illustrates the loyalty which those near to Notre Dame feel for the team which bears her name. None of the four—^Jones, Cahill, Callahan, or McAllister—^have scrapbooks of their newspaper clip-
John McAllister 

pings. Few are the magazines whose covers they have graced. And yet they've probably helped to win their share of games for the Fighting Irish. 
Behind Scenes Another veteran worker behind the scenes of Notre Dame football is Joseph Dierickx, for 20 years custodian of the Stadium. His is a job that entails con­siderably more than just moving giant tarpaulins on and off the playing field as the weather threatens. Each of the 56,000 seats must be painted every four years, and the press box, refreshment stands, and railings even more frequent­ly. Joe's crew also cares for the playing field sod, covering it with a fresh layer of black soil each summer, and constant­ly re-seeding it. 
Every Wednesday before a home game the tarps must be spread over the play­ing surface; each Saturday morning they must be removed. Each week the Sta­dium must be put into top shape; after each game the work of collecting and hauling the truckloads of debris begins again. 
In addition, snow must be cleared from the stands as well as the field. At times this amounts to a mammoth operation, more than Joe and his small crew can handle. The last time this happened was the pre-USC game blizzard of 1949, when sudent volunteers we're enlisted to help clear the Stadium before the game began. 
Besides such routine chores, Joe also trains and cares for the two Irish nias­cots, Shannon View Mike and Pat. For many years before coming to Notre Dame, Joe had been a circus acrobat, where he learned how to train animals while touring America and Europe "with 
The sports publicity office in action—Charlie Callahan (1.) talks to his student assistant, such famous companies as Eingling Bemie Riley, as Miss Maura Mills checks last week's statistics. Bros., Barnum and Bailey. 
Football Review. 

195' Notre Dame Numerical Roster 
NO.  NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  \VT.  HOMETOWN  HIGH  SCHOOL  CL-ASS  
l^  Mazur.  John  E.**  ..OB  21  6-2  198  Plymouth, Pa  _.  . Plymouth  „.Sr.  
2'  Carey.  Thomas  F  -QB  18  5-10  175  Chicago. Ill  -Mt.  Carmel  ._Fr.  
~'i  Gugliehni,  Ralph  V  --QB  18  6-0  180  Columbus, Ohio  -Grand  View  _Jr.  
4  Biicci.  Donald  _  QB  18  6-0  180  Youngstown, Ohio  .East  _Fr.  
^  Gaudreau.  William  L  QB  20  6-1  180  Baltimore, Md  ..Loyola  -Jr.  
6  Martin, Robert L  QB  20  6-2  185  Davenport. Iowa ..  - St.  .Ambrose  -So.  
7  Buczkiewicz.  Edward  QB  20  6-0  177  Chicago, 111.  -Weber  -Jr.  
(WJ  Paterra.  Francis  F  HB  19  5-11  180  ifcKeesport,  Pa.  -Tech  -So.  
;14  Lattner.  John  J  HB  18  6-1  188  Chicago,  111.  -Fenwick  -So.  
^ '  Whelan,  Jack  D  HB  20  5-11  180  ^liami,  Fla.  -^liami  -Jr.  
18  Reynolds,  Paul  R  _  HB  18  6-0  180  Springfield,  III.  -Cathedral  -Fr.  
^ 20  Carrabine,  Eugene  P  .HB  18  6-1  178  Gary,  Ind  -Emerson  -Fr.  
23  Petitbon. John  E.**  HB  20  6-0  185  New Orleans, La  -Jesuit  -Sr.  
24  Joseph.  Robert  _  HB  20  5-9  163  Martins  Ferry,  Ohio  .Martins Ferry  -So.  
26  Bush.  Jack*  _  HB  21  6-1  190  Oak  Park, 111  _...  -St. .Ambrose (Davenport,  Iowa)—Sr.  
27  Hovey,  William  _  HB  25  5-10  170  
28  Sarna,  Edward  HB  21  5-11  175  
29  Dunlay,  James*  T-G  19  6-2  215  
30  McHugh.  Thomas  L  _  FB  19  6-1  190  
3J  Bubick.  Ra\-mond  .T  18  6-4  222  
^ 2  Flood.  David  _...HB  24  5-10  185  
lI33  Shannon.  Daniel  J  FB  18  6-0  190  
37  Barrett.  William  C  HB  22  5-8  180  
40  Bianco, Donald J  _  HB  19  3-11  185  
.42  Heap,  Joseph  L  HB  19  5-11  175  
44  Arri.x,  Robert  J  _  FB  18  5-10  188  
45  Kigali,  Robert  J.  HB  19  5-8  172  
47  Gander,  Fidel  FB  21  6-1  196  
(48,1 Worden. Neil J  FB  20  5-11  i87  
49  Caprara,  Joseph  _  FB  22  6-0  195  
f^^}  Hunter,  Arthur  J.  C  18  6-3  222  
"3J^ Boji, Byron  B.**  C  21  6-0  200  
;52y'Szymanski.  Richard  C  18  6-2  210  
(53y Schrader,  James L  _...C  19  6-2  203  
54  Bartlett.  James  J  C  22  6-3  200  
55  Hamby,  James  H.*  C  20  6-2  205  
56  Becker. John J  C  18  6-0  203  
57  Frasor. Richard  C  18  5-11  190  
•'60^ Varrichione,  Frank  _...G  19  6-0  207  
' e r Taylor, Robert H „...-62y Seaman. Thomas J@ ) Ostrowski. Chester**(W) Burns. Paul E.**^• " " ­
• ",'- 65;^ I.ee. John P.. "^56 Robst, Paul K. ... ,67^'' Palumbo. Samuel (68/ .•\lessandrini. Jack69 Petranick, Albert G^03 Kelly, Robert J, ^^71 Mavraides. Menil72 Zambroski, Anthony;7'3,, Bush. Joseph R(^4:. Ready. RobertQ5: Toneff, Robert**/76 Poehler. Frederick77 McCarthy. William(^78} Murphy. Thomas L. Q ^ Bardash, Virgil 80 Weithman, James C * ..... 81 Kohanowich, Albert ^2 1 O'Neil. Robert ^ V Penza, Donald 84 Kapish, Robert J.* t85> Mutscheller, James (C)** (86) Mangialardi, Fred 0 1 Cabral, Walter K 89 Gomola. Stephen T. 90 Matz, Paul A. 91 Katchik, Joseph 92 Cyterski, Eugene  _  G-T G G G Q G G G G  .T  .T-E  .T  .T  _...T  -...T  ^T  -T .T .T E-T E £ ..E ..E ..E ..E ..E _E — E  18 21 21 21 19 18 19 20 20 21 19 21 19 19 21 21 20 20 20 21 21 20 19 21 21 18 19 18 18 20 18  6-2 5-11 6-1 6-2 5-11 5-11 6-0 5-11 6-0 6-2 6-1 6-0 6-3 6-3 6-2 6-4 6-3 6-1 6-0 6-0 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-0 6-1 6-1 6-3 6-2 6-1 6-9 3-11  200 198 197 196 190 195 195 198 210 203 202 200 -203 208 230 210 210 210 206 190 189 195 200 187 198 197 198 203 191 253 188  

* Denotes Monogram Winner 
4J

December 7, 1951 
1 •1 1 t 1 1  Get your CHRISTMAS GIFTS at HanS'Rinfszch Luggage Wallets and all Leather Goods HANS - RINTZSCH 138 N. Michigan  
!  20 % DISCOUNT  
on Cleaning and Pressing to N. D. men.  
Expert Shirt Laundering  
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON On the Bus Line  
The Difference Between This  
WALLFLOWER  
And  1  This  
POPULARITY  
Is  1  This  
ADAIRE SCHOOL OF DANCING 216 S. Lafayette  
Enroll at Adaire's for the best deal in town on dance lessons. Call 2-0166 for a free introductory lesson.  

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP in the Rockne Memorial 
GhfUiitfuu Q^t Bo4c 
oiQoll SeUU 

These four famous manufacturers offer you special gift boxes which con serve a double function. 
You get both the balls and 
these special boxes at the 
regular prices. Packages of a dozen and half-dozen golf balls are available. 
While you're down there, take a look at their supply of: 
WffHA^S 
are you frustrated? 
uncomfortable? 
poor grades? 
Then 

Wear this sport shirt .. . it brings out the man in you, that glorified masculinity, that wonderful love­ableness. With or without a tie, it has up to the minute styling and it's miraculously uncrushable. Sizes small, medium, large and extra large in popular colors. 
$0^95 
SPALDING 
U. S. ROYAL ACUSHNET DUNLOP 
Hand Balls and Gloves Rubber Shower Sandals Golf Club Covers Ping Pong Balls 
Tee Shirts and Sport Socks 

SPORT SHIRTS 
Men's Shop Street Floor North 

44 
Football Review 

There are always five expert barbers ready to serve you at Cyr's Barber Shop. 
You can save time by calling for an appoint­ment. Phone 3-0678. 
CYR'S 
BARBER SHOP 
South Bend's Leading Barber Shop 
100-102 S. Main St. 
W. E. Cyr, Prop. 
SOUTH BEND'S ONLY PIPE SHOP 
* Kaywoodie 
• Dunhill 
*
 Sasieni 

*
 Custombilf 


• Weber 
• Lee 
Pipes Repaired in 24 Hours 
Ail Types of Tobacco 

Fish, Steaks, Chops 
and Chicken 

At Prices You Will Appreciate 
Our Specialty 
V2 Golden Bro>vn Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls 
$7.20 
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT 
"Chicken in the Rough" 

213 N. Main Open Sunday 
The Huddle 
Consratulates the 1951 Notre Dame Football squad. 
stop at the HUDDLE for that liHIe snocfc between classes. 
J 

December 7, 1951 
David Kempler 

FAY'S 
Quality Jewelers 
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and \'isit with us. 
We carr>' a large showmg of fine Watches and Jewelry... We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Ser\'ice. 
111 South Michigan Street 
Shoe Rebuilding Zipper Service 
Washington Shoe Shop 

Right Away Service 
116 W. Washington Ave. South Bend 
Hat Cleaning Shoe Dyeing 
McDonald Studio 
South Bend 

FINEST PORTRAITS Since 7867 
116 WEST COLFAX AVE. Call 4-8891 
The Courtesy Barber Shop thanks you men from Notre Dame for your patronage. 
HEALTH SPOT I 
COURTESY 
209 W. COLFAX AVE. 
BARBER SHOP 
Paul Wehlan, Mgr. 
SUNNY ITALY 
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION 

"Rosie's." Here you'll alv/ays enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food. 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
601 North Miles 
Makes a Man Love a Pipe 
and a Woman Love a Man 
The Thoroughbred of Pipe Tobaccos Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild 
Football Review 

GIFTS forALL 
FOR THE FAMILY 

Here is on ideal gift for the family. The unique Notre Dame dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with an impressive montage of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for escutcheon mounting or as a decorative piece. 
$1.75 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME 

students. Alumni and Friends, here's something that will be enjoyed by the entire family . . . R.C.A.'s new record album containing the Songs of Notre Dame by the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club. The cover of the case will please you with its photographic reproduction of campus scenes. . . . Then too, the records are plastic and unbreakable in 78 R.P.M. and 45 R.P.M. Records Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor and produced and published by Recorded Pub­lications Company. 
$5.00 
A I N 

CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME 
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your enteirtaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors. 
10 oz. glasses $4.25 <ioz. plus 
$1.5 0 express charges 
14 oz. glasses $4.9 5 ''oz- P'us 
$1.50 expr^ii chorges 

NOTRE DAME "JOE COLLEGE JUNIORS" 
How proud your youngster will be and how cute he'll look. . . fine wool knit, genuine reproductions of Notre Dame honor sweaters . . . sizes 2 tc 12 . . . Cardigan style— 
$6.00 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
December 7, 1951 
^-Mji'i^o  .• ^  
Q'Q^  all  dressed  up and  °(^^^  
someplace  to go  

Arrow Formal Shirts 
You really breathe easy in Arrow formal shirts . . . they're designed for extra comfort. Standouts for style, too. Be sure to see these two favorite "tux" shirts at your Arrow dealer's in time for holiday parties. 
Arrow "Shoreham" S6.50 (left, above) 
Arrow "Kirk" §6.50 (right, above) 
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES 
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS 
Ifs ADLER'S for . . . ARROW 
On Michigan at the Bus Stop 
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES 
J. Trethewey 
JOE THE JEWELER 

104 N. Main St. J. M. S. BIdg. 
You Get... 
•
 Expert Shirt Laundering 

•
 20 % Discount on Cash and Carry Laundering 



At . 
SLICK IDEAL LAUNDRIES 
317 Lincoln Way East 
South Bend 
Football Pictures 

We can furnish ND team or squad pictures from 1887, as well as indi­vidual action shots of this year's players. Also available are pictures of former ND greats, including Gipp and the Four Horsemen. 
75c each (Remit with order) 
BAGBY STUDIO 
now . Colfax Avenue 
South Bend 1, Ind. 

The MEN'S Corner 
for 
Arrow Shirts 
lOlTZ 

• % ^0« M£Af ANO 
1 \.yOUNCM£NMAIN AT COLFAX 

SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA 
Football Review 

Congratulations... 
to the 1951 ^Tighting Irish" 
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY 
921 Louise Street • South Bend 
i December 7, 1951 49 
you never had it so good 
Van Heusen sport shirts 
Rca. T. H. I 
Pass the hookah and bring on the dancing gals! But first bring on Van Heusen sport shirts. Never such a show of colors, patterns, fine tailoring Uke tliis. Rich fabrics you'd expect only in expensive shirts. And 'cause variety's the spice of life. Van Heusen gives you 1001 choices for 1001 nights and days. A princely selection of Van Heusen sport sliirts awaits your choice. Fine ginghams, warm wools, lustrous rayon gabardines, soft Vanaca flannels! 
.->^!^r.. $3.95 to $10.00 
Van Heusen 
"fhe world's smartest" shirts 
Phillips-Jones Corp., New York I, N. Y. 

Make GILBERT'S 
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters 
GILBERT'S 
PlRKEJi­
miGRROWD 
Our special new value enables us to give an extra pair of pants with every custom-made suit. 
BOYNTON 
We have been given a 20% discount by our wholesaler so we pass this great saving right along to you. 
PiMER-WIITERROWD 
n5V 2 North Main 
Phone 3-6318 813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock 

Football Review 

WHATS SO DIFFERENT 
ABOUT ENGLEWOOD, N. J. ? 
In Englewood, the local telephone exchange looks pretty much. like the telephone building in any other town. 
And Englewood's telephones seem just the same as the twenty-seven million other dial telephones in the country. 
But there's a difference .. . 
You can pick up a telephone in Englewood and dial San Francisco telephone numbers diiecti 
In fact, you can dial any one of eleven million telephone numbers in thirteen widely scattered areas from coast to coast. 
That's what makes Englewood different — the new kind of Long Distance telephone sendee on trial there by the Bell System. 
Long Distance dialing is another example of the Bell System's 
constant search for ways to provide you with ever-better telephone 
service. 

BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
December 7, 1951 
Copyright 1951, LIGGETT & MVERS TOBACCO CO. 
*FROM THE REPORT OF A WELl-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION 






