.•«*tr:..'i 
aiDegcbolastic 
DISCE- QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURVS- VIVE - QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS 
Entered as Second Class Mail Matter Published Every Saturday During the School Year. 
Vol. LV. FOOTBALL NUMBER, 1921 No. 13 
TURNING IN THE SUITS—A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE SEASON. FRANK WALLACE. 
NOTHER football season has passed 
—another year has gone^a year 
in which the boys of the land and 

the coaches of the land and the educators of the land have enjoyed their yearly virtuous spree of sport. It is over now—and who sits upon yonder throne se­rene and proud? Gosh—'tis our own Notre Dame. 
Can you beat it? 

Each fall we watch them drop in from Norton, Kas., and here and there in Iowa— just ordinary looking chaps who have picked Notre Dame in preference to bigger schools —even as you and I. They go out on Cartier field where an ordinary-looking person named Rockne takes them in charge and con­vinces the surrounding blades of grass that this gang is terrible. They go out and smash and bang and slice and crash and run and pass for a few months—^when lo, and behold—once more we find them sitting on the world—^the toast of Broadway—and of Hughie Fullerton. 
Just a scrubby-looking crowd who move around the campus and come late for class— even as you and I; just an ornery-looking gang that can yell and bellow in the trees or loll in their subway beds—even as you or whoever else's prefect will permit: Just an inquisitive crowd that are always snooping around the telegraph offices with a "what's the dope on the game"—even as you and I. This, my friends; the country has conie to this. How do they do it—these Lochinvars who annually^ steal the Soldiers' bride—these Cinderellas who win the favor of the public from their conference step-sisters who are all bedecked with pretty press notices? 
They live right, they have a good coach and they like each other. They are big kids who like to play football and Rockne teaches them how to play it correctly. They pass because it is easier than to buck a line. They have beef—speed—^brains—^and intellect. And while others look upon the game as a highly complicated affair that requires men and coaches—^Rockne and his gang go out on .Cartier field for a little fun every night and then go out and upset the world. 
SEPT. 24—NOTRE DAME 56; KALAMAZOO 0. Chet Wynne lost no time in disclosing his intentions toward the season by returning the first ball pitched by the Kazooks through the entire opposing team for 80 yards and a touchdown. Buck Shaw made the occasion truly historic by chalking up' the first goal of his season's mark of forty. Danny Coughiin turned in a 35 yard run which was converted intb a touchdown by Thomas. Mo­hardt, Lieb and Coughiin circled the ends for long gains and Wynne made tJie next score. De;§ch and Wynne ploughed through for big gains and Thomas sneaked through once more. Gus Desch came back strong and scored, on a straight dash of 15 yards. The second team went in and Rease chalked up another marker. In the second half the first string went in orce more and Johnny Mohardt scored two touchdowns after runs of 30 and 40 yards. Mohardt shot the first of t^e Notre Dame passes which were to become famous and Capt. Eddie made a pretty catch for a 35 yard gain. The third team went in and the game slowed up considerable after which a rain began to fall and everybody was g^ad . when the session was over. Every man oh the team starred witii Mohardt, Desch and Wynne dividing honors. It was a wonderful start and everybody was pepped up for a bigsieason. ^ 
'^& Hocre dome dchdascic 
E. ANDERSON—KANE—SEYFRIT—DEGREE—REASE 
OCT. 1—NOTRE DAME 56; DEPAUW 10. 

Depauw came entirely surrounded by mys­tery—and Rockne's men took the mist from the mystery in a big hurry. Mohardt was the big star of the game with Wynne and Desch continuing to figure very strongly in the scoring. Danny Coughlin took a shoe in the head on the third play and was carried from the field. 
Depauw had a game team and later de­veloped into a powerful secondary outfit but except for a few moments in the early part of the game and in the final quarter when Rockne's third string was performing, the Tigers were not so good. Clark took a blocked kick and ran 70 yards through a clear field for a touchdown and Bloodgood kicked a field goal for the enemy's 10 points, all of which came in the final quarter. 
Johnny Mohardt started the fireworks for Notre Dame hy tearing off 25. Thomas made the touchdown. Chet Wynne came to vi­brant life a moment later and tore like a Kansas cyclone for a run of 60 yards through the mystery team. A pass from Mohardt to Kiley, a run by Johnny and Chet went ovei* again. A bit later Gus Desch dashed madly for 65 yards and another score and Johnny Mohardt added another touchdown on a 35 yard run. 
At the beginning of the second half Johnny Mohardt intercepted a pass and did a Paul Revere for 70 yards and a touchdown. Later Johnny passed 35 to Rodge and the long end completed the first Mohardt to Kiley play which was to make the Army look sick a few weeks later. Rock sent the second and then the third team into the game and we made one more touchdown when Lieb passed to Seyfrit. 
OCT. 8—IOWA 10; NOTRE DAME 7. 

Full of pep and confidence Rockne took his gridders to Iowa City the following week and encountered a spirit of depression in the Hawkeye City. The western team's support-
H. ANDERSON—LIEB—CARBERRY—REAGAN—FELTESr-MAYL 
1S^ Hacre bame Schokisric 
COUGHLIN—McDERMOTT—SMITH—DESCH—GILLIGAN—SHAUGHNESY 
ers expected a 14-0 defeat and told it out loud; Then when the game began Aubrey Devine and Locke plunged our line and ran the end for a touchdown. The line held bet­ter after the next kickoff and A. Devine booted the field goal which meant everything to Notre Dame and Iowa throughout the rest of the season and we don't know how many years to come. 
The backs came back strong. Mohardt circled right end for the longest run from running formation of the game—18 yards— and 'Danny Cpughlin and Wynne added good gains. • Everything was going lovely when the referee penalized us 15 and broke up the march. 
Steady gains by Mohardt, Chet and Panny took the ball to the Iowa 25 yard line, as the Quarter ended and Johnny passed to Eddie who was downed on the-Iowa 5 yard line. In three downs we didn't take it past the one-yard line and the last attempt, a pass, was intercepted back of the goal line by Locke who ran it 40 yards to mid-field. The boys started all over again and Johnny passed 20 to Rodge who ran it 30 yards for a touch­down. That was all of the scoring. Just before the second half ended Mohardt shot three consecutive passes to Kiley, Grant and Kiley, which were good for 70 yards. Iowa was flustered but the whistle saved them. 
Iowa threatened again in the second half following an intercepted pass by Devine, and ran to the local 6 yard line where the line held. We took the ball back* to our own 28 yard line from where Paul Castner made his first appearance of the season and'punted 70 yards. Iowa was on the defensive through­out the ]'emainder of the game. Grant and Coughlir and Lieb ran the ball to the Iowa 8 yard line as the quarter ended. Iowa took the ball on downs at the beginning of the fourth quarter but was completely stopped from gaining. Castner missed a 50 yard try for a field goal by 5 yards. Iowa punted to midfield and passes by Mohardt to Kiley and 

^':'r^mm^^m''w£-Am:s. 
VOSS—SHEA—COTTON—MEHRE—BROWN—CASTNER 
'?5e Noure (Siame Sieholaeck? 
WALSH—THOMAS—CAMERON—MIXON—MILI,ER—MURPHY 
Anderson returned the ball again to the Hawkeye 14 yard mark. Belding intercepted a pass and once more the ball' went to mid­
field from where Desch ran the ball back and Belding intercepted another pass. Notre Dame threatened again when Kiley blocked a kick and ran with the ball to the 25 yard line where Devine caught him by one leg. Castner gained and Mohardt passed to Eddie who took the ball once more to the 8 yard line. On the fourth down another pass was intercepted. Notre Dame made another game try when Castner took a pass from the 50 yard line to the 17 yard line as the game was over. Notre Dame gained more than two yards to one of Iowa and had the better of all the statistics except the score. Which team looks like Western champs? 
OCT. 15—NOTRE DAME 33 ; PURDUE 0. 
The boiling of the Boilermakers was rather a tame affair in comparison with the sensational battle at Iowa. Purdue erred frequently enough in the first half to hand 
us 30 points and Paul Castner added his sec­
ond field goal of the day in the~next period 
for the total of 33. Castner's long-distance 
punting featured the game while Hunk An­derson tore through for two fumbles and touchdowns. Buck Shaw began to be recog­nized as the real hum-dinger of the line, Ed­die and Rodger recovered fumbles and John­ny Mohardt continued his steady work. Frank Seyfrit blocked two kicks in succes­sion. The local passing game was not brought into play at all—^much to the disap­pointment of Steve Henegan, sport writer for the Indianapolis Star. Walter Eckersall refereed the game but Rockne was not put­ting out anything because of the fact that Indiana was 'present with note-books. Hunk and Mohardt made two touchdown each and Castner kicked twp field goals. The second half developed a Purdue spurt but the game was one of the least interesting on the schedule. 

• . v . .;--V-,-; 
GARVEY—MOHARDT—WYNNE—PHELAN—GRANT 
'Sfie Nocre dame^SdMkwcic 
HIGI—FLTNN—BYRiNE—DOOLEY—MAHER—MAGEVNEY 
OCT. 22—NOTRE DAME 7; NEBRASkA 0. 

Nebraska and Home-coming furnished plenty of excitement for the hardest-fought game ever staged at Cartier field. The Notre Dame passing was stopped but the running attack proved sufficient to win while the local line—^with Buck Shaw playing like a man fi-om a football factory—held the heavier Comhuskers to two downs and kept them away from the local goal. Chet Wynne, Ed­die Anderson and Johnny Mohardt were the other big stars of the game although every man on the line played wonderful ball with Hunk and Hector going especially strong. Chet Wynne showed the fire of a madman and it was his spirit which kept the wishbones of the linemen crowding their heavy oppon­ents. The game was not spectacular but it was exceptionally hard-fought—^the bruising type of the old-style in which Notre Dame does not often indulge. 
Buck Shaw was the bright star of the afternoon. He backed both sides of the line and went down under punts with the speed of an end. He broke through and had the Huskers stopped before they could thirk of starting. This heavy crew, which later shoved the Pitt Panthers all. over Forbes field, was powerless before the speed and agility of the Notre Dame forwards. Eddie Anderson swung the current of the game at two points by recovering fumbles. Johnny Mohardt gained consistently off-tackle and darted through the hole which Buck and Ed­die made for the only score of the game. There was no doubt as to which w^as the bet­ter team. A crowd of 13,000, a new record for Cartier field, witnessed the game under perfect weather conditions. 

OCT 29—NOTRE DAME 28; INDIANA 7. 

The student body made the trip to Indian­apolis and contentedly marched through the rain before and after Eddie Anderson and his crew had walloped the Crimson to a 
KELLY—LARSON—SHAW—LOGAN—BERGMAN—KIEEY 
'SRe Nocre 6cnneSdK3k»incr 
queen's taste for their audacious attempt of 
the year before. The band led parades ga­
lore that day and not even the continual 
rain and cool weather could dampen the''ar­
dor of triumphant.US.,. 
The first half resembled a real ball game. 
Rockne sent Lieb, Walsh, Phelan and.Thomas 

four rollicking sailors into the sea of imidl/ 
After the waves had calmed down: a bit-he/ 
furloijghedthe original quartet and watch^. 
Johnny Mohardt and Danny Coiighlin riish 
the ball for the first touchdown. A fiinibled 

punt a:nd. some ^strenupus line^pluriging by: 
Kyle tied the count at the end of the half 
and Indiana rooters were quite excited. 
Due to the efforts of Danny Coughlin the 
game became a parade in the second half. 
Danny ran, and tackled and recovered fum­
bles—^what didn't that boy do that day—^and 
he did it all out in the open. Rock had his 
usual three teams in the game before it was 
completed. 
Mohardt drove off-tackle consistently^, and tossed the first six passes to Rodge and Ed­die without a flivver. Hec Garvey and Buck Shaw stood on either side of the line as liv­ing exemplars of Marshal Joffre's famous re­mark.* Chet Grant struck his stride and Young Dutch slipped the:first fire into the periodically returning Bergman comet. 
NOV. 5—^NOTRE DAME 28; VSTEST POINT. 0. 

The simple announcement of the score foregoing caused more genuine surprise to local adherents than any other single event of the season with the exception of the Iowa contest. To the, public at large it brought a tlirill and to certain sections of the el ^ east the thrill gave way to chill. As a point­er to the supremacy of west over east^ an -in--^ dicator of the general class of Rockne's men . and a suggestion that the Iowa game mi^ t well bear close attention to. the actual play apart from the score, the ^ame at West JPoint carried a ^werful kick.' - ^^^ 
-The team was workii^^smoothl}^>^It hit the high spots swiftly^ and siuieSy;^tjiaied ^nd coi^uinmated its 'daring.:' -It .^V^ed> fliat rar ^ and nicNst .desjured;^9J^;^ja^lB^c: sights ^ ch^inpipnMt^^^^ displaying all tiic^-li^u^ul: ]^rm^/1^ ^ and precision tiiat m^e s one organization superior to "another. Eveiy man starred, 
some excelled all previous efforts and the sun went down upon one of the biggest days in the football history of Notre Dame. The game converted New York sport writers and brought them worshipping to the shrine at the Pplp Grounds a few days later when Rockne's men lopsed their windy play 'neath th^fampd .Coogari-Heights. " ^The combined effect :pt the two^ gai^fies practically obliter­ated ithe effecits- of the Iowa .game and /brought forth the spectacle of a defeated team being.ranked^as,the nation's best while .-fiye. undefeated aggregations were ~ crowded 
down the list. 
The Notre Dame line held the Army with­out gain on the first two downs and the hand­writing appealed on the wall when Eddie re­covered a fumble on the Army 20. Castner missed a field goal and a few plays later'the same circumstances led to an attempted Army goal which Eddie blocked and recov­ered. The first quarter continued on this sort of exchanges. In the second period Buck missed an attempt at place kick but Hec Garvey recovered a fumble in mid-field and Johnny \)assed to Rodge for the first marker. Chet.W3mne was the healthy lad bn the next scpre., He ran the kickoff back to the 48 yard line. Dan Coiighlin clicked 30 yards on a forward aiid while the Soldiers covered Kiley, Chet Wynne slipped out to left end and took a pass for '40 yards and a touchdown. 
Late in the second half Hunk prepared the way by recovering. a fumble. Mohardt, Coughlin and Wynne.ran the ball to the 18 yard line but penalties returned it 20 yards and Johnny dropped two passes in Rbdge's 
lingers for another counter. Mbhardt ran 
4)aGk the kickoff .45 yards and Wynne did some sensational plunging to the 20 yard line from where Johnny skirted the end for thCc final counter. -^ 
•^ e work of ther.local line can be esti­mi^e(^ when it is pa^e knpwn that the. Army made but pnp.;i^^ scrimmage aiid one <^n sjijlMiss.; No use ,tb pick 'em outtr-^that kiiid 0i^y: ni«aiis :that everyphe; was in there ^t h both feet. -; ^^^ V; 
l^e boys imbibed of some noble hospital ity provided by Messrs. Byrne and McDon­

-! 
MX&S^^^M?^x. 
aid and became the toast of. the gay old city of New York. Surfeited with theatrical per­formances, they put on a passing show of their own against the boys from the Raritan. It so happened that all of the blase sport writers, of the metropolis were there looking for a thrill—and if you think they did not get it consult Hugh Full'erton's dissertation on miracle backs, etc., etc. Paul Castner cop­ped the major honors by kicking field goals from the 42 and 4t yard lines, punting well and making two touchdowns. Mohardt's passing set the pencil boys on their ears while Kiley's receiving had them gasping for air. Gus Desch caused eye strain to those in the stands who attempted to follow the speed of his wild flights—speed which one critic compared to that of a frightened boot­legger. Shaw, and Hec and Hunk and Wynne and Kiley and Castner and Dooley and Eddie and Johnny made somebody's all-American that day while Harry Mehre got his picture in Charlie Brickley's cartoon be­cause of the funny one-handed pass he made. They were tickled to death to meet us and then took us apart to see what made us tick so regularly. It makes us mad—but think of what it does to Iowa! 
Castner got going on the first play and registered a 35 yard run for a touchdown. Wynne repeated with 35 for another marker in the next two minutes. Castner dropped one over the crossbar from the 42 yard mark. In the second quarter the Raritan lads stop­ped our pass attack for a moment and Cast­ner dropped- another in the basket—^this time from the 47 yard line—^aft{er which Grantland Rice faiiited. Just to keep in shape. Mohardt passed to Kiley for 25 and another marker as the half ended. 
At the beginning of the second half Chet Wynne completed one of the prettiest plays of the season when he made a diving recov­ery of a long pass from'Mohardt. We need­ed just 8 morier yards so Johnny shot it to Eddie for the score. Dan Coughlinrmade a beautiful run through the entire: Rutgers team for 45 yards but was injured and Desch who went in, began a punctuated Marathon which took.the ball to the 2 yard line from where Castner went over. Laeb and Phelan worked the ball down on the next>offensive and Gus went towards Newark and homefires with the tally that made it 48-0. "Not.bad» 
baby," was Danny Sullivan's terse remark. 
The remaining games of the. season were, 

taken on the down grade. Haskell, Mar­
quette and Michigan Aggies were nice quiet 
fellers, principally, although both the Indians 
and Marquette scored on us. 
NOV. 12—NOTRE DAME 42; HASKELL 7. 
When scalps were counted we had six and 

they had one—the massacres of other days 
upon ihese plains of Notre Dame' had been 
avenged. Pauf Castner swung his left-
handed hatchet for three touchdowns, Eari 
Walsh put the Indiana sign on two moi'e and 
Scout Desch tracked like a frightened deer 
for another. (There were no bobtleggefrs in 
the old days.) 
A Cherokee named Levi and another Cher­

okee of the genus WofFord got rambunctious in the last period and passed for 65 yards in -5 attempts through our thijd string. They began to war-whooping it up but "Coach Hal-as sent the first string into the battle and 
it became an Indian of another color. 
NOV. 19—NOTRE DAME 21; MARQUETTE 7. 

It was the Irish against the Irish and the cold and snow against all of them at Milwau­kee but Rockne's crew proved their ability to handle the,snow balls by plowing through for three touchdowns. Johnny Mohardt was the KingrBozo wiil^ Eddie Anderson shining. as a Ipluke: Johnny tore off two long runs of 35 and 40 yards while Eddie took a pass from Johnny and cleaned up for 50 yards and another marker. Hunk Anderson's hand was not quicker than the. referee's eye and the husky guard left the game shortly after sev­eral Marquetters had jumped' heavily on little Chet Grant who was out of bounds at the time. Several of the boys appeared to like the town. ... 
THANKSGIVING DAY, NOV.. 24—NOTRE DAME 48; AGGIES 6. 
.This is the game by. which Cullen Cain, 

poetical sport writer of the Philadelphia 
Public Ledger, attempted to prove that Notre 
Dame was not so good. Some how, Mr. Cain 
read the score 4-Q >and inunediately thought 
Aggies not bad—-Notre Dame not sa good-^. 
Harvard, Yale aud Princeton peachy. ~ 
Once again was Johnny Mohardt the star. 

lefie Nocre borne Sdhdasvic 
Going into the game with a broken nose the peppery half-back made three touchdowns by his best running of the year and passed nore than 130 yards to Rodge and Eddie— all of this in less than half a game. Hariy IJehre finished his career in a blaze by doing a Single-G down the track for 65 yards and a touchf.own after the interception of a pass. 
Paul Castner ticked off 65 yards after re­ceivmg a kickoff and added other material gains. Wynne tallied in the first half fol­lowing his steady plunging and Earl Walsh, Gus Desch, and Dutch Bergman completed the rout. Capt. Anderson, Kiley, Mohardt, Hunk Anderson, Shaw, Wynne, Phelan, Walsh, Coughlin, Carberry, Mehre and Grant completed their careers. 
A Princeton coach and Dr. Bull, the Yale trainer, were in the stands-^students of the game come to learn from Old Man Rockne— not bad, not bad at all—which is about the best and most significant ending we can give to our season's review. 
The following statistics show that Johnny Mohardt was the high scorer of the team 
. and that Buck Shaw made a record in goal kicks which may stand forth for the season— 38 of a possible 40. Rodge Kiley didn't muff a pass all season and Hunk Anderson made two touchdowns in three minutes against Purdue—a possible record for a guard. Chet W^ynne's opening run of the season for 80 yards was the longest on record. Mohardt kicked in v^ith a 70, Mehre, Castner and Desch for 65 while Mohardt, Wynne, Desch, Eddie Anderson, Kiley, Coughlin contributed 50 yard sprints in numbers. Eddie Ander­son, Hunk and Hector recovered the most fumbles. Mohardt passed over 1150 yards and Mohardt to Kiley became famous as a passing batterj^ Paul Castner kicked a 47 yard drop kick. Eddie Anderson made Eck­ersall's all-American and Mohardt and Eddie made his all-Western. Eddie, Rodge, Mo­hardt, Hunk, Buck, Wynne, Dooley and Cast­ner, made all-American teams of various au­thorities—a remarkable record which spells the story of the season's success. 
We can't forget Rockne-^Northwestern refuses to let ijs do that. Everybody con-r cedes everything we might say about Rockne as a coach—^and he made the all-American himself this year when he was recognized 

-r' 
as one of the five leading coaches in the coun­try. We at Notre Dame have still more advanced ideas on that subject but we'll let Rock prove them himself when he starts next season with a freshman outfit. 
Touch­  Field  Goals after  
Player  downs  Goals  Touchdown  Total  
Mohardt  12  __  .-__  72  
Wynne  9  __  _  54  
Castner  6  4  __  48  
Shaw  __  __  38  38  
Kiley  _^  r__  5  __  __  30  
Desch  5  30  
Walsh  3  _­ —  • '  18  
Thomas  .  ^  3  _  —  18  
E. Andiei-son  2  .  12 .  
Coughlin  2  __<^  __  12  
H. Anderson  2  __  __  12  
Voss  __  __•  7  .  7  
Rease  1  6  
Seyfrit  1  __  .  __  6  
Mehre  1  6  
Lieb  »  __  __  2  2  
Safety  __  __  __  2  

WALTER HALAS 
ASSISTANT COACH. ^ 
For two years Walter Halas has done much to help "Rock" develop championship football teams at Notre Dame. He came here from Davenport in 1920 to coach basketball and baseball, but his experience with football has made him a valuable as­sistant to Rockne. He knows the game from goal to goal, has the ability of showing play­ers how a thing ought to be done, and has no trouble deciphering strange plays. This last was put to good use when Mr. Halas made trips into enemy camps. When he re­turned and compared notes with Bariy Hol­ton, it was not long until the Freshman team was making the Varsity battle ^for every inch in scrimmage practice. Last spring Mr. Halas could not devote much time to helping along the Spring practice, as he was a very busy man developing a baseball team. At present he may be found in the gym every afternoon picking material for a basketball team which he claims is going to be the best ever at Notre Dame. In all forms of sport, Mr. Halas is an enthusiastic coach; his en­thusiasm is of the contagious kind, and that is why he can train successful teams, 
A 

We Nocre (Stome Schokigcic 
A SMALL WESTERN TEAM—BY EDWIN MURPHY 
It had been my intention to celebrate a Pan America team. The obvious superiority of ths West over the East made it apparent 
JOE PLISKA, JK. EAY EICHENLAUB, JR. 

however, that a Small Western selection would include the bast in the game. Possibly there are better players in the East, but the best are found this side of Pittsburgh. 
The first requisite of a Small Western can­didate is amateur standing. The second ama­teur sitting. Nobody will doubt the ama­teur standing of the selection that is amassed herein. The average sitting of the team is better than had been expected, but big and small it is decidedly amateurish. A soporific investigation failed to reveal evidence indi­cating that any of the team ever slept for money. 
The bevy of babies that constitute the SCHOLASTIC'S Small Western all happen to be Irish either by birth or birthright. In fact the last three football seasons have seen some remarkable material developed. It is merely a matter of time before it will be whipped into shape. Already the whipping process has efiiected notable results. 
In preparing the Small Western. I gave much attention to the crying wants of the candidates, particularly in the way of sugar and castoria. While such crying ability does not need to be heralded locally, the pub­lic at large hears little of what goes on on Mars. 
Tii8 team is unusually light. It is also young and inexperienced. A thorough course of training will eventually develop a line, however, that can get by anywhere. The tumbling act must be mastered by the young meteors before the team can get on its feet; it ought to be able to hold up and hand on after that. 
Selections follow one another hereafter in rapid fire. 
FULLBACK. 

Kid Eichenlaub was chosen because of his toddling ability; he ought to waltz straight through any line. He has a dangerous toe which he uses to advantage against all comers. Kid "Eich" can keep on his feet bet­ter than most of his contemporaries, and is all together a cute rascal on ^nd off the field. 
HALFBACKS. 

Babe Barry and Red Miller constitute a carting backfield tandem.. Miller can pass from one end of the field to the other with the utmost ease, while Barry can stick a finger in anybody's eye. Together they are the most mischievous imps in the game. 

QUARTERBACK. 

Dorais was my unanimous choice as pilot. Ha has a head on him, that lad. It is quite evident to' anybody, although the wisp of hair is not. He is hard to hold, and has a reputa­tion for wriggling out of difficult places. 

ENDS. 
Rockne, the miracle baby, is my scintillant 
CHARLIE DORIAS, JR. 

'Sfte Nocre domeSdKjkigcic 
BIG" BERGMAN, JR. 
selection for one end. He is my most prom­ising Small Western lumber. He has an ex­traordinary vocabulary already, arid it is growing apace. With Gushurst, the other end, I have a pair of cunning youngsters for wing positions. Gushurst is a little fellow, but he is there, or elsewhere, when his pres­
"RED" MILLER, JR. 
ence is expected. He can catch passes, 
• measles, or flies with equal facility. 
TACKLES. Dutch Bergman F and Sam Dolan Jr. are aggressive and ambitious tackles. Berg­man F will take a chance at anything that does not bite him first. He is a clever tickler, and always gets his man low, about the toes. Great things are expected of Dolan Jr. His name would gi'ace any lineup or police force with equal splendor. Besides he is an expert at interference, and can break into any con­versation. 
GUARDS. 
The old guard dies but never surrenders. As I cannot afford to have any dead lumber 
WALTER HALAS, JR. 
'NORM" BARRY, JR. 

'5fie Nocrefitome Schdascie 
on this team, I have picked candidates who will neither die nor surrender. Young Halas has two outstanding qualities. He can 
SAM DOLAN, JR. 

stan^ off or stand on any opponent. With Pliska at the other guard position the Small Western will have plenty of youth. Pliska is an ideal guard. He knows his place and always holds4t, 
CENTER. 

For keystone position I have Dutch Berg­man 112. He is a chip off the old block. No­body will deny this. He is the right peg for pivot place therefore. He is only a little shaver, and uses a Gillette. In this respect he differs from his pater who uses a Gem. 
As some of my readers may have suspected before this, the Small Western is what is technically known as a mythical eleven. Every student of mythology has heard of King Knute. Every student of mythical elevens knows the story of Coach Kniite K. A canvass taken by a prominent sport jour­nalist for the purpose of electing an All-America coach found K. K. close to the top and going strong with many precincts miss­ing- Rockne has been the greatest single factor in establishing Notre Dame's athletic reputation. He has turned out a western championship team, and followed it by what national sport authors acclaim as the best team in the country. That is why I niade Litle "Rock" captain of the Small Western. Associated with such names as Eichenlaub, "Red" Miller, Dorais and Bergman the Small. Western presents a collection of side­lights that illumine the dim days of 1940. 
IN MEMORIAM. 
December fourteenth marks a veiy impoi"t­

ant date in the student history of Notre 
Dame. ' 'oday our thoughts revert to George 
Cipp, who lies at peace underneath' tjie 
snows of Laurium, Michigan, his home town. 
Just one year ago a splendid friend, stu­
dent and athlete died and left to us an envi­
able heritage. He had brought to himself 
and to Notre Dame a wealthy of gloiy and 
fame, and he passed away in the height of his 
career . His name is linked inseparably with 
that of Notre Dame not only because of his 
marvelous athletic prowess but also for the 
reason that he typified his school in a multi­
tude of ways; he was a representative man. 
Every one^ acquainted with college athletics 

knew George Gipp through the medium'of 
the press.. Upon him were showered the 
praises and honors that come to few men; 
he was universally chosen on the mythical ' 
elevens which were published at the close of 
the season of nineteen hundred twenty. • 
George Gipp was proclaimed, from coast to 
coast, the best player of the season and stood 
so far above any other football player that' 
experts who had long observed the game se­
lected him as All-time AU-American half 
back. He mounted to the pinnacle of athletic 
achievement and passed in fullest brilliance. 
Words can not contain our'love and esteem 

for him; his name will ever be remembered 
and honored. To Notre Dame men, especially 
those who knew him best, his team mates, 
coach and fellow students was given the priv­
ilege of knowing him not as George Gipp, 
the ail-American, but as George Gipp the 
man. He. has become a legend at Notre Dame 
and can not be forgotten. George Gipp was 
a true gentleman and friend, of splendid 
character and high ideals. Notre Dame shall 
always cherish his memory and point with 
•mingled pride and sorrow to George Gipp as a man well worih emulation. He was a Notre Dame man. At the close of the pres­ent season, it is a good thing for us to re­member the glory and the;sadness of the past; to show that in our hearts there is a memorial more lasting than any stone or bronze. E. B. DEGREE. 
'Jsfie Nocre 5ame Scholascic 
It may be expedient to veil in deep silence the details attending the proposed encounter with Centre College; if so, we are going to 
presume just a THE GAME WITH CENTRE, little upon said 
expediency and have our fling. Where tliere was no chance to play at Pasadena, friends of the team be­lieved that the trip to San Diego would be a good outing for the champions of our United States, and Notre Dame authorities agreed. Then came the unfortunate details referred to in another editorial, and the University decided to cancel the game. Upon repre­sentation from San Diego, however, this de­cision was changed to save the sponsors of the tilt from serious pecuniary loss. Rock w^as willing to fight it out even with a weak­ened team. We set our teeth' and the team gritted its teeth—^when, lo and behold. Centre refused to play on the ground that it had arranged to meet a Western team, and so, after a week of journalistic affirmations and denials, San Diego was definitely and finally without a game. We make no comment. Our friends and alumni will gather from this simple statement of the case that Notre Dame played square once more. On Decem­ber 26 we can use our imaginations to decide what would have occurred if . 

J. E. H. 

A shadow has come over the footi3all sea­son at Its close, a shadow which we hated to 
reveal but which, for the sake of Notre Dame athletics dur-KEEPING THE SLATE ing all the future, had CLEAN. to be looked at and 
brushed away. Three of the ablest of our players—Hartley Ander­son, Fred Larson and A. A. Garvey—were found guilty of having played professional football in the city of Milwaukee. They have. been barred from participation in athletics at Notre Dame and their monograms have baen withdrawn. It was a bitter medicine as well for those who were obliged to dis­pense it. Nevertheless, we feel that the odium of the situation does not fall in the first instance upon the heads of these three lads, whom a genuine need for money led into temptation and into violation of funda­mental college ethics. The real blame rests upon those cheap promoters of professional contests for whom no convention of decent sport is sacred, and for whom colleges and college careers are secondary matters when the n:aking of a little easy money is involved. The friends and alumni of Notre Dame, as well as the friends and alumni of other schools, must find the way in which that blame will meet the sentence it so amply de­serves. In the long run, college football will not survive the unhampered eiforts of the "football sharks." Give them the same kind cx medicine as has cleared the world of loan-sharks, quack doctors and horse-thieves. Give it to them hard. G. N. s. 



'^e Hacve ^ame SehAasvic 
In last week's issue of the SCHOLASTIC there was an account of a meeting December 2nd, at St. Joseph's hall in South Bend, and attended by a group of A QUESTION OF Off-Campus students for DISCIPLINE. the purpose of discussing 
discipline. We cajiinot re­frain from commenting on this meeting. In many ways it was the most interesting we have experienced at Notre Dame. 
First of all, there was a gToup of vie7i. 

-They talked common sense. They had been called together to discuss matters of discip­line—and discipline is a delicate subject in I'elation to the student—but they attacked the question in a square-shouldered fashion. There was no quibbling, despite the fact that there were differences of opinion. There M^as frankness. All of the views were out­spoken. This last is one of the things that most appealed to us. We listened to stu­dent opinion that is usually heard only be­hind the backs of prefects. It was a revela­tion; proof sufficient, at any rate, that the faculty could safely bring more of the mis­understood questions that concern the stu­dent out where they can receive honest dis­cussion. 
The students at the South Bend meeting decided to recommend to the Off-Campus student body a system of student discipline which has the approval of the University. The system has been described. Perhaps the real importance of the proposed method will b? lost without a brief consideration. We may be pardoned, therefore, for taking the space to analyze it here. 
In its application, if put into effect, the system will concern at first only the stu­dents residing in South Bend. But here is an important point. If the system is a suc­cess downtown, it, or a similiar disciplinary method ,may be applied on the campus also. At first glance, this may seem a spying sys­tem. It may appear to the person who does not study it as the establishment of a "stu­dent police" force. Such an idea has no right to exist. The proposed committee of twenty-. five will ont have to assume the position oi a police committee. Its members will not go . out in search of student offenders. They will observe cases that constitute serious of­fenses against the rules and report ont hem. 
il. is triie. A sub-committee will warn those who commit a second offense. But there will bo no spying or policing. 
The syste.Ti will place the matter of dis­cipline downtown almost entirely. in the hands of the students. In observing many of the rules the students will be on their honor. We believe that not only the Off-campus will recognize the beneh shrdlu uu Campus students, but the students on the Campus will recognize the benefits of this. We believe they can see the advantages of _^. il enough to encourage the adoption of the system. 
The days of prefect discipline at Notre Dame will have to pass some time. The time may not be far away. Eventually the Uni­versity v,iil have to adapt itself to. the re­quirements of the bigger Notre Dame that it is fast becoming. Some sort of discipline will always be required. But the kinds of discipline that can be applied at a university of 1,000 and at a university of 2,500 are al­together different. 
It is our earnest belief that the student body as a whole, and the Off-Campus stu­dents in particular, should accept the will­ingness of the faculty to permit a trial of the system of student discipline as a recog­nition that concessions will be granted, if these are ^accepted in the right way. We are pi-oi" ised, in fact, that there may be a change if the students do^vntown respect the system of student discipline properly, in event of its r.doption. The faculty is being more than fair in this. The students should be fair to tliemselves. Studied from many angles, the offer which the faculty has made is the most important, seen from the student viewpoint, that has been proposed in many years. 
In closing, we do not make an appeal. The Off-aCmpus student body will cast their votes on the matter. We believe the whole ques­tion can be decided by them on its merits. We hope that none of the Off-Campus men, however, will minimize the importance of their votes. MOLZ. 
CORRESPONDENCE. 

To THE EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
I have read your interesting article entitled "Closer Relationship, etc." Now if one views .the matter philosophically, this article seems tinged with 
'&}& HocrebconeSkAKk»mc 
Boshevistic inclination; ethically considered, it runs headlong into matrimony; rhetorically, the antithesis between "riif-raff" and "winsome daughters of Eve," is perhaps, too startling. The fundamental ques­tion is, however, the establishment of amicable re­lations, even of anmament, paradoxically. It would seem that certain grave difficulties confront the re­former here. Suppose that six hundred students should take it into their heads to pay a visit upon a certain day. What a tremendous encroachment upon hospitality! What a banging of telephones, what a burden on the truck that carries the mail (and the male)! I may, therefore, be pardoned for suggesting a simple device. Let the St. Mary's street car pass before -the postoffice so that upon receipt of the student nickel, the door will open for relations. Wireless telephones ^vith photographic attachment might help—^the telephones could even be provided with armatures. 
But gentle sir, why not write sonnets instead? 
KRACK. 
EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
As for the e^^dently young man who brought the matter of Saint Mary's out from a long assignment to obli\aon, we do' not see why he "should be con­demned for a joui'nalist. He is not a journalist ac­cording to the student's office. If a journalist at heart, we congratulate him on his choice of words. But we -want to know how newspaper men got into the habit of writing themes. It has always been the custom to have themes appear in the "Public Pulse" column. " 
Moreover, we lift our brows in horror at the; thought of even.some haH-dozen glucose individuals being guilty of promiscuous.flirtation. We hope that, the SCHOLASTIC has no readers Avho would wink at such a practice. We once had to go over to St." Malay's on a journalistic errand, and one of the in­mates tried to flirt with us at the height of two stories. We thought that was too high. But per­haps it was on|y a foolishly romantic kitchen girl. We cannot conceive of a St. Mar3^s girl being party to such conduct, although we do know several fel­lows who have several cousins on the other side. 


E. W. MUBPHY. 
Herewith the controversy which has arisen around the subject of our relations with Saint. Mary's is closed. We still have on hand a half-dozen letters, which, alas, we must remit to oblivion. It has been an enjoyable discussion. In conclusion we wish to reveal the fact that, though there is something to be said- for -Mr. Thiemann's point of view, the SCHOLASTIC printed his editorial for its own pur­pose. Very, often, after a chap has spent hours formulating an opinion about something, and other hours putting it on paper, he is informed that those 

.;\^'hp-should.commend his-effort have "had no time v^tfi read the SCHOLASTIC;" in fact, "very seldom read .-anjrthing except, the sport column." The irate re­marks which have followed the editorial in question have, however, proved that there exists a dilemma: 
either that people do read the SCHOLASTIC or that they will not look at something which is not, in their eyes, anathema. We prefer to accept the first horn and drink to the health of those who may have, we regret, been offnded by our really innocent ex­periment. ^ E. T. D. ­
*** 
*** 

To THE EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
One of your associates, Mr. Engels, has-been so over-kind as to connect me with the remarkable performance of an. unknown yoimg man, who, it seems, in November, 1918, ran umpty yards for a touchdown against the Great Lakes eleven, and sayed^ Notre Dame from defeat. So intimaltely, in fact, did Mr, Engels connect me with this achieve­ment as to identify me with the real hero. 
Would that I had been young enough to be a member of the S. A. T. C. As a matter of personal impression, however, I would say that in Novem­ber, 1918, I had already been in the service about eighteen months, and that most of my zigzagging that fall had been done in a French billeting- area. 
My experience overseas was quite safe.and sane. I nevfer heard the cannon roar anywhere but on an artillery range in Mississippi; my hardest dug­out viras a skyscraping French bed. If Mr.'Engels, therefore, is led by this note to make a correction, please restrain him from j:onfusing m y exploits with those of Sergeant York. I didn't make the third team of the A. E. F., much less get into the big game. DONALD C. GRANT. 
PERSONALS. 
Michael Schwartz, '21, former Kansan, is now employed by the United States Steel Company of New York City. 
John O'Connell, '01 recently launched a new paper in Brooklyn, N. Y. The Coiirier is meeting with great success. 
Stephen ("Steve") Burns, alumnus and former inmate of Fort Wa3ntie, is at.present associated with, the Federal Electric, Com­pany of New, York City. ' 
The speakers at the December 15th meet­ing of the Marquette Club, an organizatkAi composed of prominent Catholic prbfessional and business nien in the East, held at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City in­cluded Dr. James A. Bums, C. S. C.~, presi­dent of the University, and Dr. John €av­anaugh, C. S. C, professor and former preisi­dent of the University. 
SHEA. 

'^il--- -<-^. y=: ^ V 
'^^ Hocii^ domeSdiokwtk^ 
THE FRESHMEN. 
With the homage of the football world at her feet, and the plaudits of the greatest critics of the game today ringing in her ears and pronouncing her 1921 team the greatest football machine ever developed, Notre Dame turns slowly away from the present to the future in football and the an­nouncement, in part, of a 1922 schedule which would stagger a typical "Fighting Irish" eleven, brings forth a great deal of speculation concerning the strength of the Ii-ish squad which will fight to keep the Gold and Blue's wonderful record unsullied. 
Certainly Coach Rockne, wizard that he is, can not conjure superlatively talented grid­iron teams out of thin air, and thin air is just about all that is left of the team that set the east agog a few short weeks ago. 
To Notre Dame's Freshman squad will fall the task of filling those gaping holes in line and backfield, and just now a formidable Freshman team is one bright spot in a none too rosy sky. 
One of the heaviest and most promising squads of recent years, Notre Dame's 1921 Freshman crew developed into a worthy op­position for the Varsity before the season was many weeks old and their fine record against minor colleges in , this vicinity speaks for itself. 

Before Coaches Barry Holton and "Duke" Hodler had had much time to organize their proteges properly Kalamazoo College and Lake Forest College had forced the Yearlings to dip their colours, but the scores 7-0 and 21-0 bear out the fact that the Freshmen fought every inch of the way, while their record from this point on would convince one that it was only lack of team work which lost those first, two games. ^ 
Naval Training Station, Culver, Michigan Aggies Fresh, and Albion College were met in that order and Albion, champions of the Michigan conference, were the only team to force the Gold and Blue youngsters to come home defeated, the score in this case being 14 to 7. , Taking into consideration the fact that the Freshman team in preparing the Varsity for its games was forced to change signals every 





"THE OLIVER" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS 
Dining Room Open AH Night ' 





ws^^m 
LIMA OHIO 

212 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg. 
OFFICE PHONE RES. PHONE Main C8» Main IICZ and 1847 
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS 
Dentistry. 


DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws. 

J. M. & BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND. 
DR. F. W. VAUGHN DENTIST an d ORTifODONTIST M7 J. M. S. Buildihcr. South Beiid;^^^iad| 
'56e Nocre 6aine ^iehdoscicr 

pLACKSTONg 

^THEATRE 
SUNDAY, DECEMBEE 18th, ONLY 
»
U Marooned Hearts 
Commencing Monday December 19, for 3 days 
ANITA STEWART 
IN 

''Harriet and the Piper'' 
A Sensational Slam at Free. Love. Coming Thursday December 22, for 3 days 


"Don't;Neglect Yonr Wifef 
A Picture for Husbands and Wives and all that expect to be. 
Wishing for 
A Merry Christmas 
and a 


Happy New Year 
I 

week, and that, these little rehearsals with the greatest team of history were not exactly child's play, one begins to realize that in many respects Notre Dame can justly boast of a remarkable Freshman team. 
A wealth of back field material, together with a big, fast line, which was capable of playing intelligent football, made this pos­sible. 
No less than four quarterbacks were used tliroughout the season by Coaches Holton and Hodler, and although Stolldreher looked to be the best of the quartet until he broke his leg, Layden is a big boy who promises to de­velop, while Eaton-and "Bill" Sheehan are men who are bound to figure in the scrap for field general next fall. 
The two Millers, "Jerrie" and Don, Cer­ney, Bernie Coughlin and Crowley are five halfbacks who all look good for future Irish Varsity teams, with Crowley, an especially talented back who can be developed into a triple threat artist. . Three fullbacks, Livergood, Enright and Doc Connel, rounded out a backfield squad the versatility and speed of which was a pleasant surprise to Notre Dame men. 
On the line there was weight aplentj\ 
Big Frank Millbauer with a little more than one-eighth of a ton of beef and brawn was certainly the heaviest husky of the lot and there are ^ome who will say that the gigantic boy from the East was the best. However, that is problematical for Elmer Miller, Stang and Fret looked very good all season at the tackle jobs. They are all fight­ers and although they look small beside Mill­bauer, they can hardly be called whiffets. 
Vergera, Riser and Moes were the guards and they showed form that sets at rest all promised weakness of Natre, Dame Varsity at this position next season. 
"Addie" Walsh and Arndt were fighting it out for the center berth when the California boy broke his collar bone and was forced to sit on the side lines for the rest of the season. However, in the short time that he 
was in .Walsh showed great ability. Arndt is also a, very capable performer. 
LASALLE < The fight for end positions was one which was waged throughout the whole season 
'^e Houve ©ame Schdascic 
without any paiticular brace of flankers out­classing the others. W. Eaton, Collins and Honsing-er were left at the season's end, but McNulty and Walsh must not be forgoixen when doping out probable 1922 Varsity com­binations. 
While the record of games played by Notre Dame's 1921 Freshman team is a cred­itable one, their Cartier Field record against the Blue and Gold Varsity is much more im­poi-tant to Notre Dame men. 
Those many afternoons when, behind closed gates, they faced the fury of the Var­sity's attack, were well spent by these boys, and the eyes of Notre Dame are already focused on the men whose ability will de­cide whether the "Fighting Irish" will con­tinue their victorious march. 
GILCHEIST. 
THE .GREATEST OF THEM ALL. 

With the football season apparently closed Notre Dame's hot stove league experts are finding amuse­ment in looking back over the season and hazard­ing guesses as to which team could be considered the nation's best. It is probable that a questionnaire circulated among the students would reveal a sur­prising unanimity of opinion on this subject. One gloomy day the gods saw fit to frown upon us, with the result that we cannot dispute the claim of Iowa to the Western Championship, but we do put forth the claim that we have assembled the greatest col­lection of stars in the country, and that taken as a team they form the most powerful aggregation in America. That this is not merely a local opinion 
is shovvn by the following lineup compo.^idmen who have been picked for variousteams by experts throughout the country:   of all­  our star  
L. E.—Kiley  (Notre Dame).  

Selected for All-American by: Philadelphia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening News, Jack  Veiock, Henry Farrel; All-Star team by Hugh Fullerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 

L. G.—H. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected for AU-American by Jack Veiock, and for the .second AU-American of Billy Evans; All-Western (second team) by Walter Eckersall. 

C.—Mehre (Notre Dame). Selected for AU-American by Brooklyn Eagle. 
n. G.—^Dooley (Notre Dame). Selected for Grantland Eice's Hall of Fame. 
If You*ve Spilt the Beans, 


Let Swank Clean Your Clotlws 
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING 
One Day Service 25 Cents Extra 
Regular Two-Day Deliqery Clothes Called for and Delivered to Soom by 
E. W. MURPHY 307 Corby 

SWANK'S MASTER CLEANERS 
228 N. Michigan St. 



OLIVER THEATRE 
Palace Theatre Corp. Lessees 
NOW PLAYING—TILL DECEMBER 25 The Greatest of All Human Interest Photo Plays 
**Why Girls DontMiMit '' ^YS?"^^ Leave Home" 
Adapted from the Famous Stage Play Featuring ANNA Q. NILLSON. 
HAIR DRY? DANDRUFF? HAIR FALLING? USE 

ORDEO 
and KOKOL OIL 
They have no supeiior. Let us send a bottle 
home for you. 


THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP 
HOURS S:00 A. M. TO 6:M P. M. 

'Sfie Ncjcre (bame SdKiaszic 
Now showing patent, also dull of this type—a full dress or dancing oxford—price $9.00. 




KLINGEL'S 
ACROSS FROM OLIVER HOTEL 

366 OLIVER THEATRE BLDG. 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
We si^olo atttaettbe bariations of t^e prebatling tdnitefi in taahiani. 
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC SHIRTS. NECKWEAR. HALF-HOSE. 

R. T.—Shaw (Notre Dame). 
Selected for AU-American by Lawrence Perry; AU-American by Vincent Engels; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 

R. E.—E. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by: Walter Ecker­sall, Henry Farrell, Billy Evans (second team) ; All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner, Norman Ross; All Star Team by: Hugh FuUerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland- Rice. 

L. H.—Mohardt (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Walter Ecker­sall (second team); All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner. 

R. H.—Castner (Notre Dame). All Star Team by Hugh FuUerton. 
P.—Wynne (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Philadelphia 
Evening Ledger, Newark Evening News, Henry 
Farrell (second team); AU-Westem by Norman 
Ross; AU-Star team by Grantland Rice] 

In addition to these honorary positions, the fol­lowing Notre Dame men were placed upon the first or second All-State teams by Blaine Patton, of the Indianapolis Star: 
L. E., Kiley (Notre Dame); L. T., Garvey (Notre Dame); L. G., H. Anderson (Notre Dame); R. T., Shaw (Notre Dame); R. E., E. Anderson (Notre Dame); L. H., Mohardt (Notre Dame); F., Wynne (Notre Dame); Q., Grant (Notre Dame). 
In preparing this list there has been no intensive effort made to name all the positions awarded to Notre Dame men on the many honorary teams of the country, and4t is most probable that if there had been the list would have been enlarged con­siderably. We have simply named the most notable choices in support of what seems to be a universal contention of those who have seen the Irish in action, namely that Notre Dame has the "greatest of them all." 
N. B.—^As the SCHOLASTIC goes to press we learn that'..an All-American team picked by two weU­known authorities. Eddie Anderson' and Chetter Wynne, is composed of eleven Notre Dame men. 
G. HA6AN. 

J
aii^i&l:. 
/ . 
223 

/^5e Nocre dameSdiokwcic 
BARRY HOLTON 
FRESHMAN COACH. 

Coach Holton made his first apeparance in Notre Dame football in 1917, but the war prevented his playing with the Varsity after that year. This year he has used his foot­ball knowledge and experience in developing what has been the best Freshman team ever seen at Notre Dame. By means of this team he has contributed a most important part to the success of the Varsity's 1921 season. He began by picking his 'players from a maze of Freshman aspirants, a task which seemed almost impossible at the beginning of the year; at that time Cartier Field was speckled with Freshman football players. But Barry was the man for the job, and he was not long in developing* a team which went through a very successful season, made the Varsity show what it could do, and raised "Rock's" hopes for another championship team next year. Bariy drilled his men thoroughly in the plays used by the Varsity's opponents, but to give the latter some real competition he figured out new plays for his team to use. He has developed exceedingly well several players who will step into the shoes of the Varsity men who leave this year. 
*** 
ALBERT HODLER 
ASSISTANT FRESHMAN COACH. 

Coach Holton was very well assisted by "Duke" Hodler in making a Freshman team. "Duke" was an All-Northwest halfback in 1919, playing for Oregon Agricultural Col­lege. He came to Notre Dame last winter, and consequently was not eligible for varsity. But Rockne does not waste football ability, so at the beginning of the year told "Duke" to help Holton whip the Freshmen into shape. His knowledge of plays and ability as a player soon made his indispensable to the Freshman team. During Holton's absence at the end of the year, "Duke" had comr plete charge of the team. 




WALK-OVER 
For Men of Good Taste. 
In Black Calf . . . . . $10.00 
CL-OUSE'S 


BOOT SHOP 

NT JIOLMKMIGMMJT. 

^y :. 
We Lead TIMB Al widi • « Hais ad! C ^ 
M 
^rauMSbop m 

The Sho^ ThatlSatafies. 

ii 6 WASHINGTON STKBET 

TSfie Nocre 5ame Sehdascic 
THE GATES SCHOOL FOR DANCING 
Located in the business center of South Bend 120 East Wayne Street. Phone Lincoln 6491 
Has been established in the city of South Bend for three years and has attained the highest success in the Art of teaching dancing. 
WE GUARANTEE TO TEACH YOU TO ' DANCE 
Private lessons where all embarrassment of learning is eliminated. Two large private studios, open daily 2 to 10 p. m. 
SPECIAL COURSE RATES WITHIN THE REACH OF EVERYONE. 
When you have tried all- others and failed, try the GATES SYSTEM, better still, begin with GATES and have no more trouble or worry about failure, or waste of time ,and money. 
PROF. CHARLES C. GATES, Director MISS ESTHER MURRAY, Assistant 
A horse on you f 
You can" buy a horse for $25.00 and another for $250.00. 
The first is a cheap skate at the start and a horse on you at the finish, whereas the last delivers your message to Garcia and is a joy forever. 
Same with clothes.—If you buy a cheap suit this Fall, you'll buy a good .suit next Spring, for the trick.s and habit.-? of a half shoddy suit are a good suit's best advertisement. 
Fashion Park and Royal Tailored Suits 
for men and young men. All Wool—Hand Tailored and perfectly styled—$40, $50 and $60. 
Ralph D. King 
Niles, Michigan 
CHANGE 
By McGINNIS. 
Over one thousand dollars has been subscribed by merchants of Boulder, Colorado, towards the maintenance of a training table for the football squad of the University of Colorado. We are strong for the commerce men. 
*** 
PROFESSORS ARE KISSING. 
A famous institution has been revived at the University of Texas recently. The professors of the school _are again indulging in the faculty billiard tcurnament, the first game' of which was played a few weeks ago. 
Leland-Stanford University possesses a Fresh­
man who in turn possesses an aeroplane and oper­
ates it daily in going and coming from classes. Re­
freshing rides over the campus have been experi­
enced by many of the students and we conjecture 
that they are glad of the occasional opportunities 
to look down on their jirofessors. 
*** 
LAB. LAYS A HEAVY HAND. 
Ninety-two students, among them some of the most prominent in the school, were recently sus­pended from the University of Oregon for non­pajnnent of laboratory fees. 
*** 

"Sport Editor announces that the big intersec­tional football game between San Quentin and Sing-Sing will not be played this year as the San Quen­tin quarterback will be hung the morning of the game."—^University of Washington Daily. Step up you Notre Dame lifers and cover yourselves with glory. 
*** 
POLICE! POLICE!! GANG FIGHT!!! 

"Checker tournament open to any member of-the university. Give name, address and class to etc., etc., etc.—Advertisement in The Harvarl Crimson. 
Examinations have been abolished by the Whar­ton School of Commerce at the University of Penn­sylvania, marking a new era in educational methods. The time formerly used for examinations will be used for regular classes. Is this the millehium? 
*** 
RAWTHER JOLLY, WHAT? 

Birmingham, Eng., Oct. 29th. A striking innova­tion in university education will be introduced at Birmingham University. The college officials plan to confer a degree in the science of brewing. 
The world's rugby trophy will be at stake at 
the game between the University of British Co­lumbia and the winner of the Stanford-California contest. The championship game will be played on Christmas day.—Duilif Kansan. 
In order to ascertain the average of of the new students entering Ohio State University an examina­tion of the records was made recently and the re­sults showed that the greatest percentage at any age is at 18 years while 19.1 is the average age of all the new men. There are 1,689 new men at Colum­bus this year. 
WHEN A WHOLE CLASS PANTS. 

The Senior Class of Wabash College finds it neces­sary to issue an edict to prevent all students not members of the Senior Class from wearing the class insignia—light gray corduroy trousers. A peaceful ending of the trouble is looked for as "Our heart is with the Wabash men." 
*** 

"All Michigan in the Movies." This is the cry of the Michigan Daily and if present plans are completed the slogan mil ^oon be a mere statement of fact. The Daily desires that Michigan be the first university to produce a professionally directed motion picture of a story of college life actually laid on a college campus and to this end has signed a contract with a picture producing concern in the east and is sponsoring a scenario-^vriting campaign among the students. As soon as a suit* able story is submitted the camera-men will be put on the job and a five-reel "feature" picture pre duced. 
GEEELEYS OF CHINA ARE SOLOISTS. 
In a lecture before the Journalism class of Kansas 
U. recently a Chinese student of the school related the manner in which news is distributed in China to the people who cannot read. Professional news-tellers are employed to travel about the country and with the aid of several musicians the news is sung to the people in an inflected language. 
LUCKY? 

An infant, borrowed from the Oklahoma City 
orphanage is now being taken care of by six ^'mothers" at the Oklahoma Agricultural and/Me­chanical College. The mothers are six senior girls enrolled in the home economics class. The baby is kept in the model^ cottage and half a dozen girls for six weeks at a time take care of the cottage and its occupant. Oh yes! The baby's name is 
David. 
EAT HERE 
FOR THREE REASONS 

l.^Best Quality Food 3.—Price Lowest 3.—Service Finest 
SELF SERVICE AND TABLE SERVICE 
WASHINGTON 
Restaurant and Cafeteria 
Across from Court House 

The John Hale Hat Store 
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. 
Howard Schrop, THE HATTER 
127 Washington Ave. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA \ 

8-^ 
'&}& Hacre dame ^dhdasuc 
No. 126 
The First National Bank 
Soudi Bend, Indiana 
(Oliva Hold Bufldrng) 
apital. $600,000 Suiplusand Profit. $ 190.000 
A. L. HUBBARD, President. 
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Pres. 
C. I.. ZIGLER, Cashier. 
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier. 
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier. 
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES. 
WE ISSUE FOREIGN EXCHANGE AT LOWEST 
MARKET RATES AND-LETTERS OF CREDIT 
PAYABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. 
TRY OUR TRAVELERS' CHEQUES. 
YOU YOUNG MEN! 
ELECTRIC IRONS STUDENT LAMPS ELECTRIC HEATERS 
Electric Service Company 
II 5-n 7 W. Colfax. Back of City HaU 
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB­
NOW OPEN. Twelve different, convenient plans for easy saving during 1922. Come in and let us ex­plain how simple our plan is—^to save a little each week and then have ample funds ,for Christmas next year. 
HOLY SMOKE. 
The girl across the way W^as talking To a friend, And the friend Asked her if she liked Indoor sports. And she said that she Was simply crazy About them. But that her father Made them leave Too early. 

A glowing candle in the nit (Chinese for night) Presents a cheerful sight But please don't think when you get lit That you are being bright. 
*** 

Prof:—What is HSQ? StUde:—Water. . Prof:—What is CH20? Stude:—Sea water. *** Doctor (on the phone) :—Hello, central, give me 812 Green. 
BroAxmson:—How far can a wild-cat jump Avith its tail tied to a tree? t Walsh:—The length of its tail. *** 
POETEY. And so the gloomy day wore on—^What's that heard you say? "What did the gloomy day wear on?" Why this—The close of day. *** Five makes a team of basketball (How 'weary my poor pen is) Nine is baseball. Twelve is football, Please tell me what tennis. *** 
IN HISTORY. Prof:—Where was the Declaration of Independ­ence signed? Dumbell:-^At the bottom. *** They say that sleeping in night air Gives beauty, and Old Age you'll cheat. Friend Bill the proof of this will bear, He's on a policeman's beat. *** 
Sorin:—^I donit like the, way some of the rooms 
CITIZENS ^'^^'^

Tnist and Savings out here are decorated. 
-^:r.':\ ^ ',.^^'!~.Tc^b ^lit'i-r^^rJi-^'-'-v-^ •> -,­
Corby:-^Not enough pictures? .
NEXT TO POST OFFICE 
Sorin:—Plenty, but not enough on. 

MsmM 
•-iu.-V.i , . 
A Wai'shite whose money was getting low and who ^at meal,times was trying to get the greatest amount of nourishment for the least expenditure, entered the cafeteria at breakfast time and said: 
"Got any rice?" The waiter's answer was in the affirmative. Said the Walshite, "Gimme a bowl. I ain't had 
any since supper." *** But it is true in this school that if you're corned you're canned. *** 
Prof:—Now I want you to explain the theory so that even the most ignorant of the class will under­stand it. 
Student:—I don't believe my rpom mate is here today. 
Father:—^Why didn't that young man leave earlier last night? Mabel:—^I was showing him some pictures of me and Bill. Father:—^Well, next time show him the light bill. That may help. 
*** Scene: Brownson slumber room. Time: Ten P. M. Brownsonite aU dressed up and sneaking through 
the door with the idea of attending a big dance 
down in the village. He is overtaken by the prefect. Prefect:—^Where are you going? 
, Student:—Back. *** A wooden legged man I think most surely must feel blue He is insured for accident but must take fire too. *** 
SUIT YOURSELF. 

bane Sweetie, you're my Femme, my jane 
pain You are like a constant. gain 
Churl To my happiness—my_ girl 
merle Your hue is of purest-pearl 
Hate All my flame for you is_ Fate 
gate Wedding? I'll give you the date KOLARS. 
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE 

"'M, 
>'-•" Y- '--^V^SS 
NEXT YEAR 

sS-Cl'-^k 
THE PRICE IS STILL 

-8i 
$2.00 
BUT IT WILL SOON BE 
$3.00 
, 

"'•.'-K.'z.--'"9^i 
TAKEYOURCUE 
AT 

Orpheum Pool RoOTn 
Sixteen Alleys 
Open One to Seven Suadajr* 
Five Tables 
THE WATERS C a 

Orpheum Bowline and ^Kw d Phone Linctdn 1949 21SN. 
E. J. WATERS, Mgr. SoirtlftBMMl, 
'^:xim 
^iX_"_] 
^ 
• ~,4»r^- ::>i'~-^*^?fei^i^ 

228 '^ e Nocre Same ^holascic 
^ There is not another store in South Bend better equipped to provide men with something suitable in the way of a Christmas present than Vernon's. 
^ Here you will find a great array of beautiful presents for riien. Vernon's is an all around men's store—^where you can shop pleasantly, economically and quickly. 
C| Let Vernon's take care of your Christmas 
wants. Come m and select your gifts. 
VERNON'S 
li Every Inch a Clothing Store. * * 
Ik Kable's Restaurants Gift 
Skp 

306-J0B . _104-106 N. Michifkn St. 119 W. Jefferson Blvd. S.MIC)W»N ST. laa W. WathtDKton Ave. ab6 Sa. Michtgaa St. apaeUl attentioii te tSie tomisbinK of students rooms THE "GUT SHOP" OF THE BETTER SORT 
Students' Note Books CLAUER'S 
Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at Jewelers, Silversmiths and Diamond The Herr & Herr Co. ^l^JiTst. Merchants 105 s. Michigan 
GEORGE WYMAN & CO. 
National Grocer Company 
Come aad See Us 
WHOLESALE GROCERS 
The Sooth Bend Home for Better Luggage. 


4oa-« South St. JoMph Street. South Bend. Indiana 
N. V. P. Trunks—Indestrncto Tronks 
"LIGHT BOUSE BRANDS"



Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cases, etc. 

For juicy Steaks and Chops TRY try 
"THE GRILL"—"MIKES" 

125 W. Wash. St. 105 E. Jeff. St. Men's Row for High-Grade Shirts, Neckwear, Hosiery, etc. Men's Row entrance—Center Street 
H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props. " ' • • • • 
tlie Nour<? Same §cholasCic A&CepciseinenCs 
For Christmas contentment Kuppenheim er 
Good Clothes 
pAR T of the satisfaction that you get on ••• Christmas day as you mingle among friends and relatives is the satisfaction which is gained through good appearance—the smart, prosperous quality appearance which a fine Kuppenheimer suit and overcoat can give. Such satisfaction is assured, because we are prepared with 
Uncommonly fine values at 
kCM 

Motor coats, great coats, storm coats, ulsters, ulsterettes, and sport models. You'll Hke their thick, warm fabrics, their generous roomy comfort, and their robust styling; staunchly tailored to keep you warm in the coldest weather. The suits—never have we shown a finer variety—beautifur fabrics—different patterns in new color tones. Big values—more quality for less money; $40, $45, $50, $55, $60, $65. 
the Christmas store for men 
LIVINGSTON'S 
^"the house of Kuppenheimer good Cliches. 
1 

Extra Fine Evening Clothes 
Dinners, dances, theatre parties —every mail probably brings new invitations to you. You'll have lots of use for evening clothes. 
Yoli'll find evening clothes at all sorts of prices; same as you find diamonds. Ours are extra fine and our stocks very complete. The best that Hart Schaffner & Marx make at— 
Others at $45 

Shirts, hats, jewelry—all correct accessories. 
Sam'l Spiro & Go. 
119-121 S. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. 
HOUSE OF HART SCHAFFNER & MARX STYLISH ALL-WOOL CLOTHES 
r 
•Mi-^msi^i^ 







