

and 
AMERICAN HERITAGE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
.1'rot~o0 Sahi.te 
Offtnslvc End TOM GATEWOOD ., Jnlnl'ljJUf~9Jrt.D.J'"'--
AoodtlfliC A((A,";~ •footba((t(a8er 
. UNIVERSITY DIVISION 
(f.)~:"~£::_.~11---~-=-----·--~ 

Irish Eye Rated #l 
The 1982 edition of Irish Eye was judged "Best in the Nation" in the Special Publications divi­sion by the College Sports In­formation Directors of America in competition among all Divi­sion I schools in the country~ 
The award was presented last July at the annual CoSIDA Con­vention in Dallas, Texas. 


Vol. 3, No. 1, March 15, 1983  
2  '82 Overview: Getting Over the Hump  John Heisler  
6  Michigan: Reviving Those Echoes  Kelly Sullivan  
10  Purdue: Call It Carter Country  Rick Chryst  
13  Michigan State: The Defense Never Rested  Kelly Sullivan  
17  Miami: Making True Believers  Karen Croake  
21  Arizona: New Winner for Old Script  John Lewandowski  
24  Oregon: Can't Get No Satisfaction  John Heisler  
28  Navy: One Finally Won by Air  Michael Keane  
31  Pittsburgh: Add One to the List  John Lewandowski  
34  Penn State: Two in a Row Won't Go  Eddie White  
38  Air Force: Power of Positive Thinking  Kelly Sullivan  
42  USC: It's the Same Old Song  John Heisler  
46  Notes on Notre Dame: Irish Items: Football '82  John Heisler  
48  Reflections: Remembering the Ups  Kevin Griffith  
50  '83 Preview: Wet Behind the Ears  John Heisler  
52  '82 Final Notre Dame Football Statistics  

Irish Eye is a copyrighted production of the University of Notre Dame Sports Information Department. Editor: John E. Heisler; Editorial Staff: Rick Chryst, Karen Croake,, Kevin Griffith, Mike Keane, John Lewandowski, Kelly Sullivan, Eddie White. Special thanks to Brian Lohr for all statistical research. Photo credits: Associated Press -17, 21; Mike Bennett-38, 39, 40; Patrick Casey-24, 25, 26, 27; John Dlugolecki-1 (top), 37; 42, 43, 44, 45; Bruce Harlan-6, 11, 35, 36 (top), 49; Neil Kemp-28, 29, 30; Jim Klocke-2, 3, 18, 19, 20, 22, 47; Rev. F. Thomas Lallak-1 (middle), 9, 12,36 (bottom); Peter Romzick-4, 7, 8, 13, 14, 16, 31, 32, 34, 36 (middle), 50; South Bend Tribune-15; Stu Swartz -10, 23. Cover Design: Mossberg and Company; Cover Artwork: Jim Wain­wright. Printing: Mossberg and Company, Ave Maria Press. © University of Notre Dame, Department of Sports Information, 1983. All rights reserved. 
'82 Overview 

Getting Over the Hump 
By JOHN HEISLER 

Baby, all the lights are turned on you Now you're in the center of the stage Ev'rything revolves on what you do Ah, you are in your prime You've come of age 
Steak, chicken, pasta, salad, dessert. 

The spread looked impressive-es­pecially for a Sunday morning -on white tablecloths in the lobby area of the Notre Dame football offices. 
It was all part of a little celebration Gerry Faust had planned. 
"I told our coaches if we beat Pitt, I'd have a steak dinner for them," said Faust, a bit sheepish yet still a bit giddy from the heady triumph in Pitt Stadium. 
So, a little after eleven o'clock that morning -amidst the film sessions and interviews and preparations for Penn State the following week -the Irish staff enjoyed a gourmet brunch while savoring for a few more minutes the delicious upset of the top-ranked Pan­thers. 
· As Faust freely admitted, "I wouldn't mind doing this every week if things would go the way they did yesterday." 
But, things didn't go at all like that the rest of November. Quarterback Blair Kiel had bruised a shoulder while skidding out of bounds against Pitt, and he ended up missing the next two games. Even though he returned to duty in the finale at USC, Notre Dame would end up losing its last three games after winning its first four. It was a back-to-reality thud for a campaign that began with the assertiveness of a con­vincing victory over Michigan. 
Nevertheless, that domination of the Wolverines-followed up by a scin­tillating, last-second triumph over Miami plus the win at Pitt -proved to be the fruit of the football vine that was miss­ing from Faust's freshman year diet. 
"That's why the Michigan game meant so much to the team and to me," Faust said. "We hadn't won a big game that first year over a great team. Those are the kind of games Notre Dame had become famous for over the years, the kind of games the fans remember. We needed to go out there and beat some teams that people didn't think we could beat." 
The Michigan win under the lights started it. The come-from-behind, against-all-odds Miami finish continued it. Following a period in which the Irish offense struggled due to key injuries to Mark Fischer, Larry Moriarty and Greg Bell, the Pittsburgh success story clinched it. The 6-4-1 final ledger would have been even better if Notre Dame had pulled off wins over eventual na­tional champion Penn State or USC. Both were near misses that qualified in the "what if' department. 

What if Kiel had been healthy against the Nittany Lions? The Irish might have seized that early 7-0 lead and never looked back. What if the officials had called the final minute of the USC game differently? The Irish might finally have won at the Coliseum for the first time since 1966. 
Faust tasted it all in '82-the good (Michigan, Pitt), the bad (Air Force) and the ugly (a tie with Oregon cer­tainly qualifies). 
* * * * * 

Notre Dame associate athletic direc­tor Joe O'Brien still remembers that Monday morning following Notre Dame's season-opening win over LSU that kicked off the Faust era in 1981. O'Brien, like most everyone else who had viewed the first-year Irish coach from near or far, was caught up in the euphoria. 
"The reaction to that first Saturday was just amazing," O;Brien remembers. "We had to go up to Ann Arbor to play Michigan the next week after Michigan had lost its first· game to Wisconsin. I can remember thinking, and even tell­ing people, that if we went up and beat Michigan we might never lose again. That's the kind of effect Gerry had when things started back then." 
The effect Faust produces on people · really hasn't changed. Oh, sure, the Irish and their fans were banged hard back to earth that next Saturday in Ann Arbor by the 25-7 Wolverine victory. Now, after two years, Faust's career record at the collegiate level stands at 11-10-1-nothing awesome, yet noth­ing of which to be ashamed, either. 
Yet, if anything has remained the same over Faust's initial two seasons, it is the continual admiration so many have for Faust's dogged determination. 
Jim Murray, the sage Los Angeles Times columnist, wished Faust success as a present in his Christmas column, suggesting that anyone who works as hard as Gerry does surely deserves it. And that's been the general consensus. 
That's exactly the sort of reaction the Irish win over Pittsburgh produced among the Notre Dame players. 

"If it means one thing," fullback Larry Moriarty told another Los An­geles Times writer following the Pitt game, "it's getting the public to believe in him. The team has believed in him from day one. It's the biggest thrill for me to see that man walking around with a smile that big on his face." 
Veteran defensive end Kevin Griffith echoed those same thoughts: 
"This means everything in the world to him. This is his biggest payday and I think it's right. I think he deserves it. This is his life, he cashed in everything for this, and he's got his big payday now." 
Even the final three losses in '82 couldn't dissuade Faust from feeling like things were beginning to fall into place. 
"I really feel like things are starting to come now," he told many people not long after the USC finale. "I'm encour­aged. I think I can see the light at the end of the tunnel. We're not there yet, but I think we know where we need to be." 
Several months later, Faust reiterated the patience that has characterized the way in which he has attacked the Notre Dame challenge. ­
:! I 
'I!: 
li 
li 
!I 
II 
I! 
li 
II 
j: 
I 
! 

"I think we've accomplished some things," he said. 
"I don't think I've really changed .in the last two years. I don't feel like I'm any more or less optimistic about things than I was before. 
"I guess I'll always reflect back on the way it all started at Moeller. We didn't build that overnight. We needed four years to get to the success we en­joyed the last 10 years or so." 
And it didn't take Gerry long to ap­preciate the what-have-you-done-for-us­lately attitude of some fans. 
"We lost to Arizona on a ·field goal with no time left on the clock, so I get a letter from a fan in Tucson," Faust recalled. "He said we should have won and he was so embarrassed that he thought it would be the noble thing for me to do to step down. 
"Then, after we beat Pitt three weeks later, the same guy sent me a telegram. It says, 'Disregard the first letter. You're the greatest and I apologize.' Those are fans for you." 
One of the by-products of the great upsets architected over the years by the Irish has been the tumultuous welcomes back to campus provided the team by the Notre Dame students. Faust had the pleasure of enjoying his first of that sort a few hours after his team defeated Pitt. 
"It's a great experience," remem­bered Moriarty. "Since it was my sec­ond time, I decided to watch some of the younger players. Coach Faust was on our bus and I could see the tears in his eyes as the bus crawled through the cheering students. 
"He's a great man to be around when he wins, because he's so happy. Every­body wants to see _him succeed, be­cause he loves Notre Dame so much and works so hard, and I sincerely mean that." 
* * * * * 

With the emotion of the season be­hind him, Faust reflected on his start at Notre Dame: 
"I can see our program starting to come. A couple of breaks· last fall and we would have had a tremendous year. We lost some we shouldn't have, and we won some that people didn't think we should. Now we've got to eliminate the ones we shouldn't lose. 
"I've seen vast improvement, even as close as I am to the whole situation. It's harder for me than for an outsider. But I've had coaches who have seen ·it and told me about it. 
"We're going in the direction we want. And I think we've accomplished some things. I feel . a lot more com­fortable than I did. . .. 
"You look back at the whole year, and the one that hurt was the Air Force game. It's tough to analyze why 

Reactions like this one will produce more steak dinners for Faust and his staff. 
it happened. They got hot and we couldn't catch 'em. But we can't let things like that happen. 
"The Air Force game was kind of like the Miami game my first year. It hurt us because we thought we were over the hill, and that kind of stopped us. If we win at Air Force, the year takes on a completely different look. 
"If your program is established, no one worries about a game like that. It's the temporary sort of setback I hope we don't see anymore. After two years now, we should be past that stage. 
"When you think about it, we haven't had what I would call a senior team yet. It'll be the same way this year. But our seniors this year are the only ones who have been to a bowl game. That'll help us because I feel like we'll have a chance to go somewhere this time. 
"Like I said before, I think the light at the end of the tunnel is there. I can see the difference and I think the kids can see the difference. After two years, I think they have a better idea of where we want to be. I think we're all over the hump now." 
* * * * * 
It has been a poorly-kept secret ever since he came to Notre Dame. 

He knows it. His assistant coaches and players know it. The administra­tion knows it. Even the alumni and fans know it. 
All Gerry Faust has to do is win. 
It's all very simple, really. Faust was hired as football coach -to a larger extent than many realize-because he succeeded so often in winning the game of life. He made believers of people, and he made doing that a way of life. He did it at Notre Dame the same way he did it at Moeller 18 years before. He did it by being more down to earth ­and sometimes more naive -than a college head coach is supposed to be. He did it with his enthusiasm and per­sonality-traits that made it nearly impossible not to like him. He did it by making himself accessible to anyone who wanted a piece of his time. 
His life is a little more hectic than it was at Moeller. The datebook is a little more cluttered and the quiet moments to spend by himself or with his family are fewer in number now. 
But Faust is where he wants to be. He wants to change the image. He's a coach for the common man. He's try­ing to prove that nice guys can finish first. He's made the big time now, but he's not interested in playing the role. And that's a bit refreshing these days. · 
He hasn't read The Official Preppy Handbook. He barely tolerates ties. Long live permanent press. 
He doesn't summer on Nantucket. You won't find him lunching at the club. A single from Wendy's and a can of Tab is a more likely sight. 
Faust is anything but Madison Ave­nue. Notre Dame Avenue is more like it. He's still the small-town, Ohio boy trying his best to make good ·as the Notre Dame coach. 
Faust's goal for '83 is steak-dinner­style performances every Saturday, not just two or three times a season. All he has to do is win. 
It's that simple. 

You can always have your way somehow 'Cause everybody loves you now You can walk away from your mistakes You can turn your back on what you do Just a little s1nile is all it takes And you can have your cake and eat it too 

Michigan 

Reviving Those Echoes 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
It was on September 18, 1982, that Notre Dame became number one again -in the hearts of its fans, if not in the polls. 

Musco Portable Lighting Company supplied the equipment that illuminated the Notre Dame Stadium field for the school's historical, first-ever, night game at home. 
But it was Irish head coach Gerry Faust . who was in the spotlight after debuting at the college of his dreams with a 5-6 record. 
And with a capacity crowd, plus a national-television audience of judges, staring him in the face, he refused to bat an eyelash. 
Notre Dame's emotional 23-17 vic­tory over Michigan helped its faithful followers erase the memory of 1981, avenge a loss to the team that had in­troduced Faust to college defeat a year ago -and put the players back on the road to respectability. 
Man for man, the Irish will remem­ber their "Saturday Night Special" as the time they were able to shake loose the burden of the previous season. 
"We will never forget what happened last year," proclaimed tri-captain Dave Duerson. "But until kickoff tonight, we were still living in it. It was a deadening feeling. Whatever happens now, at least we'll be able to say we played a great game September 18." 
"We embarrassed ourselves and our school last year," said quarterback Blair Kiel. "We all had 5-6 in the back of our minds. We refused to be in that situation again." 
"We all just felt this game was going to determine the direction of our season," added senior tailback Phil Car­ter. "We knew we had to start off on the right track." 
Just as important, the victory be­longed as much to Faust, who won a big game over a big name for the first time since his jump to the college ranks. "I thought the new season would never start," said the ~econd-year head man. 
"No one works harder than he does," praised senior fullback Larry Moriarty. "It's great to finally see this." 
"Coach needed this very much," noted Duerson. "He hasn't been this happy since we beat LSU in the opener last year." 
What a difference that year had pro­duced. Between his first and second seasons at Notre Dame, Faust did con­siderable retooling with the Irish ­bringing new additions to his staff, changing assignments among . the coaches and adopting a tougher policy with his players. 
Faust was the first to admit he had room to improve. "I love the players like sons, but. I 
realized I had to be tough with them. 
I just wasn't that tough last year. 
"We didn't hit enough in practice. We 
didn't work as hard as we should. We 
have unique people playing at Notre 
Dame, but I think I gave them too 
much freedom." 

The full impact of his old attitude finally hit Faust a few days before the Michigan game. He witnessed a pre­mier showing of the film, "Wake Up . the Echoes," a 50-minute documen­tary of Notre Dame football. He ad­
mits being moved to tears. 
"I cried as I watched the screen. Af­
ter I saw the movie, I felt I really knew 
what Notre Dame football was all 
about. For the first time in a year and 
a half, since I took this job, the weight 
of it finally fell on my shoulders." 
The hallowed tradition of the Uni­
versity, the achievements of Knute 
Rockne, Frank Leahy, Ara Parse­
ghian, highlights from national cham­
pionship seasons of the past -Faust 
felt these couldn't help but make a deep 
impression on his players, too. 
He arranged for the team to see the 
movie the day of the Michigan game. 
When it ended, about two hours before 
kickoff, the Irish marched in silence 
over to the Stadium locker room. "I 
wanted the impact of the film to be 
with them," explained Faust. And his 
ploy worked flawlessly. 


Historic Notre Dame Stadium took on a whole new look on the evening of September 18 as the Irish took to their home turf under lights for the first time in the 53-year history of the structure. 
"Not one word was spoken on the way over to the Stadium," said Carter. "That movie said it all." 
"The mood of the team had been in­tense all week," Duerson explained. I hadn't seen preparation like that since the week of practice before the Ala­bama game in 1980. 
"But that movie -it really moved i: us, sort of put us in touch with our I purpose of upholding Notre Dame's tradition. We realized what Notre Dame football looked like to other schools, other people -we wanted to be like those great Notre Dame teams of the past." 
"You can't imagine how inspiring the ·film was," agreed Zavagnin. "The impact was tremendous. We just wanted to bring back the tradition and excitement of Notre Dame football." 
There were so many heroes in the Michigan manhandling. 
Senior Mike Johnston, a one-time walk-on who had kicked only two field goals before in his life -both in high school -connected on placements of 35, 37, and 41 yards. 
Larry Moriarty, whose rushing total the previous season amounted to 94 yards in 11 games, bruised for 116 yards in 16 carries and the night's first touchdown. 
Junior quarterback Blair Kiel, much­maligned in the past, was never better. He completed 15 of 22 passes-seven to tight end Tony Hunter -for 141 yards and ABC's player of the game honor. 
The defense was just as outstanding. 

It sacked Michigan quarterback Steve Smith eight times for minus 34 yards -and Irish defensive end Kevin Griffith had three of those drops. 
Sophomore linebacker Mike Larkin hadn't donned pads since the first day of preseason practice, when he bruised his shoulder -but he led the team with 11 tackles, two of them behind tlie line of scrimmage. 
Senior defensive tackle Bob Clasby set the tempo of the game on the Wol­verines' opening drive when he jarred the ball from Smith on third down, setting up a Jon Autry recovery·· on Michigan's 22-yard line. 
Three plays later, Johnston split the goal posts to give the Irish a lead they would never surrender. 
"You never know how you are going to be able to handle them until the game begins," offensive guard Tom Thayer said. "After that first drive, we realized we could take them, we had no doubts. Our confidence built up from that." 
It never came down, While Michi­gan's touted offense could net minus seven yards on its next three posessions, the Irish groundgainers were on their way to a fabulous night. Besides Moriarty's triple-figure performance, Greg Bell amassed 95 yards, and Car­ter 56. 



Another Wolverine fumble right be­fore the second quarter set up another Notre Dame score. Smith collided with his tailback, Lawrence Ricks, and line­backer Mark Zavagnin put the Irish offense back to work with his recovery 46 yards from the end zone. 
Four running plays later -after Bell sprints of seven and 10 yards, and Moriarty jaunts of five and then 24 yards -the Irish hit paydirt. 
Johnston's second kick widened the lead-and Notre Dame rode into half­time with a 13-0 advantage and all the momentum in the world. 
"I don't think the halftime score surprised us," Kiel said. ''Not after the job our offensive line did. I had all the time in the world to throw. They have confidence in what I can do, and they take care of me. And the coaches had us so well prepared. Our consis­tency on offense, that was just plain hard work and intensity -and we knew if it worked in the first half, it would work in the second." 
"It was a great feeling to be in com­plete control, to dominate that way," added Duerson. "We told each other the only way Michigan could get back in the game was if we let them." 
From statistical indications, that didn't appear likely. Notre Dame had allowed the Wolverines to cross midfield just once the first 30 minutes. Michigan, outgained 207-74 yards offensively, hadn't made a single third-down con­version yet -and it wouldn't all night. 
"I didn't recognize that team out there," Wolverine coach Bo Schem­bechler said. "The offensive line got whipped. They simply played terrible. The defensive line didn't tackle well. We just made too many mistakes. We couldn't run the ball and we couldn't stop their backs. Still, we had a chance to win the game. Two wild plays gave us the opportunity, but we really didn't deserve to be in the game at all." 
One of those wild plays followed Notre Dame's opening second-half drive. The Irish punted to Michigan game-breaker Anthony Carter, who hadn't been a factor the entire contest. The senior speedster raced 72 yards for the Wolves' first score. 
Carter's spectacular jaunt got Mich­igan close, but that was about the ex­tent of the maize-and-blue offense for the night. The wide receiver stood on the sidelines the final two quarters with a muscle pull. 
The Irish, meanwhile, answered with a third Johnston field goal. Then when Michigan managed just one yard in three plays, Notre Dame orchestrated a 


62-yard touchdown march capped by 
Bell's seven-yard blast off left tackle. 
But the 23-7 Irish lead melted when 

Michigan got a 49-yard Ali Haji-Sheikh 
field goal, and a freak touchdown off 
its second "wild play" of the game. 
Smith faked a handoff to tailback 

Rick Rogers. He tossed to Gilvanni 
Johnson, who was superbly double­
teamed by Duerson and Stacey Toran. 
As Duerson got a hand on the ball, it 
rolled onto Toran's back. Rogers was 
there to pluck it off and zoom 27 yards 
into the end zone. 
"We thought of last year's Purdue 

game all over again," remembered Za­
vagnin. "About how we thought we had 
the game won, and blew the lead. 
"Yet we all had confidence in our­selves this year-something we didn't have last season. We just knew the way the line was playing, and the way every­one was getting to the ball, something was bound to happen." 
Faust was optimistic too. "I would have put my head down after that kind of thing last year," he said. "I never saw a play like that in my life. Sure I got concerned, but I knew-I had to keep my head up. I called the players over to the sidelines and told them to forget about that play real quick." 
Duerson gave further instruction in the huddle during the Wolverines' last gasp, when they appeared to be driving for a possible go-ahead touchdown late in the fourth quarter. 
"I told the defense, 'Okay, we bent on that touchdown play, but let's not break.' We still felt that we had them." 
The senior safety took his own ad­vice. After Smith completed a pass to Vince Bean at the Notre Dame 30, 
Duerson stripped the ball right out of 
his hands. 
"They had run that pass route the 

whole game," he explained. "It's their 
favorite, and we knew that. We'd been 
preparing for it in practice all week. 
Actually, we came very close to batting 
it away on that route earlier in the 
game, so I knew how to play it. It was 
just a matter of timing." 
It was a matter of perfect timing for the Irish. "We knew we couldn't let them score that late," Duerson con­tinued. "Then we would have had to rely on a last-second score to win, the way Notre Dame-Michigan games are usually won. But this one had been our game the whole night. We just couldn't give it away, and that's what it would have been if they won -a gift.'' 
The final score was close. The game wasn't. 
Evidence of the Notre Dame destruc­tion included the numbers for the Irish offense -419 yards, 20 more plays than Michigan and possession time of 36 minutes and 18 seconds, holding the ball 12 of the third quarter's 15 minutes. 
"Their 17 points were no indication of the game our defense played," said Faust. "They were outstanding.'' 
Michigan, which last season averaged 274 yards rushing per game, netted just 41 -its lowest· output since a loss to Ohio State back in 1970. 
"It was a game a player dreams about," offered Duerson. "We seniors needed one like this, one we totally controlled, one where there was no question who the victor was.'' 
There was no question Faust justifi­ably could proclaim, "We woke up the echoes a little bit tonight." 
Michigan 0 0 7 10 17 
Notre Dame 3 10 10 0 23 

Scoring Summary First Quarter Time UM ND NO-Mike Johnston 35 FG 12:38 0 3 
Drive: Four yards in three plays follow­ing Jon Autry recovery of Michigan fumble; Elapsed Time: 1:01. 

Second Quarter 
NO-Larry Moriarty 24 run 14:01 0 10 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 46 yards in four plays following Mark Zavagnin recovery of Michigan fumble; Elapsed Time: 1:32; Big Play: Greg Bell run for 10 yards. 
NO-Mike Johnston 37 FG :02 0 13 Drive: 65 yards in nine plays following 
, Michigan punt; Elapsed Time: 2:29; Big Plays: Blair Kiel passes to Joe Howard for 22 yards and Milt Jackson for nine yards. 

Third Quarter UM-Anthony Carter 72 punt return 13:10 7 13 (Ali Haji-Sheikh kick) 
NO-Mike Johnston 41 FG 7:22 7 16 Drive: 49 yards in 12 plays following ; . Michigan kickoff; Elapsed Time: 5:48; i! Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Joe Howard for nine yards. Ii 
NO-Greg BelllO run 1:55 7 23 I' (Mike Johnston kick) :I Drive: 62 yards in eight plays following I• Michigan punt; Elapsed Time: 4:22; 1: Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for IS yards. II 
Fourth Quarter 
i 
UM-Ali Haji-Sheikh 42 FG 13:00 10 23 
!
Drive: 45 yards in 10 plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 3:55; Big Play: Steve Smith pass to Vince Bean for 16 yards. 

UM-Rick Rogers 39 pass from 
Steve Smith 7:38 17 23 it I!(Ali Haji-Sheikh kick) Drive: 82 yards in seven plays following ·I Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 2:23; 
lj
Big Plays: Steve Smith pass to Vince Bean for 32 yards. 

A-59,015 
Team Statistics UM ND 

li 
First Downs 14 22 Rushing 4 18 Passing 8 4 Penalty 2 0 
Rushing Attempts 36 55 Yards Rushing 90 288 Yards Lost Rushing 49 10 
I 
Net Yards Rushing 41 278 I 
Net Yards Passing 186 141 I Passes Attempted 21 22 Passes Completed 12 15 Had Intercepted I 0 
Total Offensive Plays 51 77 Total Net Yards 227 419 
Average Gain Per Play 4.0 5.4 Fumbles: Number-Lost 2-2 2·1 Penalties: Number-Yards 3·15 7-66 Interceptions: Number-Yards 0-0 1-0 Number of Punts-Yards 7-276 7-294 
Average Per Punt 39.4 42.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-77 3-8 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 5-87 3·S2 
lndhldual Statistics Michigan 

Rushing Larry Ricks Rick Rogers Anthony Carter Eddie Garret  Att. 13 6 1 1  Gain Lost Sl 4 19 0 11 0 2 0  Net 47 19 11 2  TD 0 0 0 0  Long 19 4 11 2  
Greg Armstrong  2  4  0  4  0  2  
Passing Steve Smith  Att. Comp. 21 12  Int. I  Yards 186  m 1  Long 39  
Pass Receiving Vince Bean  No. 4  Yards 64  TD 0  Long 32  
Craig Dunaway Anthony Carter Rick Rogers Larry Ricks  4 2 1 I  4S 34 39 4  0 0 I 0  14 18 39 4  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Larry Moriarty Greg Bell Phil Carter  Att. 16 20 14  Gain Lost 116 0 9S 0 S8 2  Net 116 9S 56  TD 1 1 0  LonR 37 11 16  
Mark Brooks  3  10  0  10  0  4  
Blair Kiel  2  9  8  1  0  9  
PasslnR Blair Kiel  Att. Comp. 22 IS  Int. 0  Yards 141  TD 0  Long 2S  
Pass Receiving Tony Hunter Joe Howard  No. 7 2  Yards 76 31  TD 0 0  Long 2S 22  
Greg Bell Larry Moriarty Phil Carter  2 2 1  13 7 s  0 0 0  7 6 s  
Milt Jackson  1  9  0  9  

Purdue 



Call It Carter Country 

By RICK CHRYST Maybe it was an omen of things to come. 
The famous Purdue drum -re­puted to be the largest such instrument in the world -suddenly found itself run off the road en route to South Bend early on this overcast September Saturday, the victim of a speeding Indiana motorist. 
Fortunately for the band members driving the truck, no one was seriously hurt. The group, drum included, ar­rived by kickoff. Yet little did they realize that less than two hours later they would witness another speeding driver, this one in a sub-compact from Tacoma, Washington, who not only would sideswipe the new '82 model from West Lafayette -but also would run it right out of Notre Dame Sta­dium. And the total damages inflicted on "owner" Leon Burtnett's gold and black machine? A 28-14 beating from 1Oth-ranked Notre Dame that gav_e the Irish their second convincing win in as many games, while at the same time handing the Boilermakers their seventh straight loss over the past two seasons. 
The driver later was identified as one Philip V. Carter, and before the day was over Notre Dame's senior tri-cap­tain had logged a game-high 154 yards, 57 of them coming on a crucial third­period drive that finally gave the Irish the momentum -and the lead -for good over the persistent Boilermakers. 

It didn't appear either of those two considerations would be a problem for Gerry Faust's squad. Throughout the week, signs in the Irish locker room 56 yards on just eight carries. For the first half that had Faust concerned. made Notre Dame players painfully game, the Santa Barbara native totaled "I simply squared with the players aware of the fact that, since 1950, a 1 06 yards on 19 tries, marking the at halftime," related the relieved sec­total of 12 Irish teams had won their second time in as many games-that he ond-year coach. "I told them they were season opener only to lose the follow­surpassed the century mark -a trick a different team from last year -they ing week. Moreover, in 1 0 of those 12 not turned by an Irish fullback since wanted to win. The coaches can only losses Purdue had been the culprit. If Jerome Heavens in 1978. call the plays; the players have to exe­that wasn't incentive enough, the mem­But just as Irish fans started to relax, cute. It's their job. We had prepared ory of the last-second 15-14 Boiler­Purdue's Scott Campbell decided that them for what Purdue was going to do. maker victory the previous season had two could play that imitation game. It was up to them to go out there and not been quickly forgotten under the Conjuring up images (or were they win. And they did." Golden Dome. nightmares?) of the afternoons when Which brings us back to that sub­
All this was clearly evident as the the likes of Len Dawson, Bob Griese, compact from the state of Washington. Irish high-stepped to a leisurely 14-0 Mike Phipps and Mark Herrmann After splitting time with Greg Bell advantage midway through the second dissected Notre Dame defenses, Camp­against Michigan, Carter soon found quarter. Senior fullback Larry Mori­bell passed his way to 177 first-half himself alone at the tailback slot, after arty's blasts -from two and three yards on 15 completions in 18 attempts. the explosive Bell fractured his right yards out -were responsible, as the And it was two of his passing touch­fibula on Notre Dame's second scoring stocky senior finished the first half with downs in the closing six minutes of the drive. 


With only 4:31 remammg in the third quarter and the contest still very much in doubt, Carter slipped a tackler. at the line of scrimmage and then skipped out to the left sideline for a 35-yard gain deep into Purdue terri­tory. 
"Yeah, it was jammed up," recalled Carter about the pivotal run. "It was an isolation play and when it's clogged up you just want to bounce it out. I was able to do it this time ... I'd like to do it some more." 
Two plays later, Carter found the middle anything but clogged as he sprinted 16 yards on a counter play to the Purdue 1 0-yard line. A blast up the · middle by Moriarty netted four yards before the 5-10 Carter took a pitchout and swept the remaining six yards for six points. 

Two costly Purdue mistakes and two .superlative efforts by Irish quarterback Blair Kiel set up Carter's game-sealing fourth-quarter touchdown jaunt. With Notre Dame stymied on its own 12­yard line, Kiel boomed a 60-yard punt. A subsequent Purdue clipping penalty (mistake number one) pushed the ball back to the Boilermaker 14 for a 7 4­yard exchange, all told. 
Then, on third and 25, Purdue fresh­Rodney Carter fumbled a Camp-

Gerry Faust: 'I simply squared with the players at halftime. I told them they were a different team from last year­they wanted to win. We had prepared them for what Purdue was going to do. It was up to them to go out there and win And they did.' 
bell pass (mistake number two), and the game's only turnover was recovered by Mark Zavagnin on the Purdue 24. 
"They definitely had the momentum coming out in the second half," com­mented the unselfish middle linebacker .. "But all the credit has to go to the offense. They took up a lot of time and penerated so that we got them in a hole which they weren't able to .get out of." 
And nowhere did that offense, led by Kiel (nine of 17 passing for 115 yards), prove its mettle more than on its final scoring drive. Facing a third and 18 call, the junior quarterback found tight end Tony Hunter alone down the mid­dle for a very tidy 19-yard gain and a first down. It was Hunter's fourth grab of 'the afternoon, prompting Burtnett to label him "the best tight end in the country." .i 
Three Carter carries later and Mike Johnston's fourth consecutive conver­sion provided the final margin of vic­tory for the Irish. But Campbell wasn't finished. 
Despite the two-touchdown deficit, the junior continued to pick apart the Irish secondary. In the 26 minutes that Purdue had the ball, Campbell (now the all-time Irish opponent pass­ing leader with 703 yards in three 
! 
l i 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
j: 

I· I, 


games) completed 25 of 39 passes for Michigan State contest. 278 yards, and completions of 17, 10 "We are playing much better this and 37 yards -brought the ball to the year," analyzed senior guard Tom Notre Dame 16-yard line with'six min­Thayer. "We are playing well as a unit, 
Purdue 0 14 0 0 14 
Notre Dame 7 
Scoring Summary 
utes to play. 
Mike Gann's 12-yard sack left Camp­bell with a fourth and 19, but the Hershey, Pa., native still found flanker Everett Pickens alone on the goal line. Yet, the diving Pickins saw the ball glance off his fingertips, and the Boilers' comeback hopes slipped away right along with it. 
"We switched our strategy in the second half," detailed Gann. "The first half we had a bullish attitude; we tried to use our strength to shrink the pocket. In the second half, we used more stunts and slants -we tried to take advan­tage of our quickness and finesse." 
While the Irish defense switched its pass-rushing scheme at the half, its defense against the run remained its usual stingy self. Purdue managed a microscopic 11 yards rushing. 
In contrast, the Irish infantry rolled for 288 yards, the highest rushing total since the 300 compiled in the '81 and that comes from knowing our as­signments. Things are so much simpler this year . . . they are simple enough not to make mistakes." 

But while the Irish domination on the stat sheet was pleasing, the fact that it wasn't reflected to the same extent on the scoreboard bothered at least one Notre Dame standout. 
"We've got to develop a killer in­stinct," concluded captain Dave Duer­son. "We came out strong, dominated the game early, but then sat on the lead. We let them right back in it. That worries me. As much as some people dislike Notre Dame already, there are going to be times when we are just going to have to keep scoring the touchdowns." 
Should hit-and-run suspect Phil Car­ter continue along his present course, than those opportunities might not lie far ahead on the road the Irish have yet to travel. 

First Quarter Time PU ND NO-Larry Moriarty 2 run 1:43 0 7 
(Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 80 yards in 12 plays following 
Purdue punt; Elapsed Time: 4:24; Big 
Plays: Blair Kiel passes to Tony Hunter 
for 14 yards and to Joe Howard for 19 

yards, Larry Moriarty run for 30 yards. Second Quarter NO-Larry Moriarty 3 run 9:05 0 14 
(Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 51 yards in eight plays following 
Purdue punt;Eiapsed Time: 3:22; Big 

Play: Greg Bell run for 19 yards. PU-Bruce King 2 pass from Scott Campbell 5:08 7 14 (Tim Clark kick) Drive: 80 yards in 10 plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 3:51; Big Play: Scott Campbell passes to Joe Linville for 17 yards. PU-Ciiff Benson 5 pass 
from Scott Campbell :51 14 14 (Tim Clark kick) . Drive: 50 yards in nine plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 2:41; Big Plays: Scott Campbell passes to 
Scott Craig for nine yards and David 

Retherford for 17 yards. Third Quarter NO-Phil Carter 6 run 2:34 14 21 (Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 62 yards in five plays following 
Purdue punt; Elapsed Time: 1:57; Big 

Play: Phil Carter run for 16 yards. Fourth Quarter NO-Phil Carter 10 run 8:41 14 28 
(Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 24 yards in six plays following 
Mark Zavagnin recovery of Purdue 
fumble; Elapsed Time: 3:42; Big Play: 
Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for 19 yards. 

A-59,015 
Team Statistics 

PU ND First Downs 16 18 Rushing 2 12 Passing 14 6 Penalty 0 0 Rushing Attempts 24 54 Yards Rushing 51 294 Yards Lost Rushing 40 6 Net Yards Rushing II 288 Net Yards Passing 278 115 Passes Attempted 39 17 Passes Completed 25 9 
· Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Offensive Plays 63 71 Total Net Yards 289 403 
Average Gain Per Play 4.6 5.1 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 0-0 Penalties: Number-Yards 2-19 5-42 Interceptions: Number-Yards 0-0 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards 8-378 7-301 
Average Per Punt 47.2 43.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3-6 5-53 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 4-86 3-62 
Individual Statistics Purdue 

Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Mel Gray  II  32  0  32  0  6  
Rodney Carter  5  12  I  II  0  4  
Tim Richardson  3  5  3  2  0  3  
Scott Campbell  5  2  36  -34  0  2  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Scott Campbell  39  25  0  278  2  37  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Cliff Benson  8  92  I  30  
Mel Gray  5  30  0  37  
Rodney Carter  4  42  0  17  
Joe Linville  3  33  0  17  
Scott Craig  2  32  0  23  
Everett Pickens  I  31  0  31  
David Retherford  I  16  0  16  
Bruce King  I  2  I  2  
Punting  No.  Yds. Avg.  Long  
Matt Kinzer  8  378 47.2  62  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long 
Phil Carter  27  155  I  154  2  25  
Larry Moriarty  19  108  2  106  2  30  
Greg Bell  4  28  0  28  0  19  
Allen Pinkett  I  I  0  I  0  I  
Blair Kiel  3  2  3  -I  0  I  
Passing  AU. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long 
Blair Kiel  17  9  0  115  0  23  
Pass' Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long 
Tony Hunter  4  72  0  23  
Joe Howard  2  27  0  19  
Larry Moriarty  2  8  0  4  
Greg Bell  I  7  0  7  
Punting  No.  Yds. Avg.  Long 
Blair Kiel  7  301 43.0  60  

Michigan State 


The Defense Never Rested 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 

You have to pardon Gerry Faust for neglecting to commend the offense after his team's 11-3 struggle over Michigan State. 
In a relieved Irish postgame locker room it was the defense that took the credit and the bows for Notre Dame's hard-fought win. 
Faust, who had nothing but compli­ments for the stonewall Michigan State defense, had equal praise for his own -and game balls for Irish defensive coaches Jim Johnson, George Kelly, Greg Blache and Jay Robertson. 
"Michigan State's defense played great, and shut down our offense in key situations," he stated. "But ours really rose to the occasion and won the game for us today." 
Neither the Irish nor the Spartans allowed any touchdowns during their 48th meeting -that explains why Faust almost forgot how his team came by those 11 hard-earned points. 
But Notre Dame mustered just enough offense to let its perfect place­kicker Mike Johnston do his thing, and he connected on first-half placements of 33, 29 and 42 yards to keep his col­legiate field-goal record -as well as his team's season slate-unblemished. 
"Hey, listen up, you guys," said Faust 

after realizing his error. "I neglected to 
give someone a game ball. Where's 
Mike Johnston?" 
That the Michigan State contest was 

so tight came as no surprise to Faust. 
Despite a schedule that read like a 
who's who of college football-with 
Michigan, Miami, Pittsburgh, Penn 
State and USC on the agenda-it was 
Michigan State that probably gave the 
coach more sleepless nights than any 
other foe. 
"I feared them the most of anyone 

we played," he admitted. "They wor­
ried me all summer. It was our first 
road trip, number one. And they're al­
ways tough to play in East Lansing­
I remember the trouble Notre Dame 
had up · here two years ago. Plus, I 
didn't want our players looking past 
them to the Miami game, or taking 
them too lightly after Michigan and 
Purdue." 
Faust's anxieties proved justifiable. 

In spite of repeated warnings from the 
coaching staff, the players admitted they 
did a little looking ahead. 


"I guess we thought since we were playing a team that was 0-3 we treated them a little lackadaisically," confessed guard Tom Thayer. "It won't happen again. But the best thing about today was when the offense was having one of those days, those eleven guys on defense did it for us." 
Those 11 guys, ranked first nationally against the rush, lived up to their billing. Here's what they did: snatch away six Michigan State turnovers, record a safety, and allow the Spartans a measly 19 yards rushing against a unit that's yielded just 71 yards on the ground in three games. 
"They bottled us up," lamented Spartan coach Muddy Waters. "That's a fine Notre Dame team. It'll be tough for anybody to lick 'em." 
The Irish realized, though, that wouldn't be such a tough chore if their offense, which sputtered all afternoon, didn't regai~ its firepower. 
"The way we played will make us hungrier," promised tailback Phil Carter. "Against Miami we're going to have to make up for what we didn't do here. We can't rely on the defense to carry us through again. We can't allow it to happen. We have to do something offensively." 
"We had a flat week in practice and we play the way we pr~ctice," ex­plained quarterback Blair Kiel. "We didn't practice that well and we didn't play that well. We've got some work to do." 

But because the Irish defenders did their work all week long, Notre Dame remained unbeaten. 
The coaching staff had Michigan State well-scouted before the October 3 matchup. They saw to it the players were prepared for every formation the Spartans would show. 
"Our coaches picked up that they were a tendency team," explained stand­out defensive end Kevin Griffith, who had three tackles for losses, teamed with Mike Gann for a first-quarter safety and recovered a fumble in the fourth quarter. 
"Whenever they went split backfield or had one back, we knew they were going to pass. If they lined up in the I, we knew it would be a run." 
Everything the Irish studied about the Spartans paid off. The only points Michigan State managed came on a third-quarter 50-yard field goal by Ralf Mojsiejenko. 
The Spartans' total offensive output in the game's first 30 minutes was just 25 yards. Quarterbacks John Leister and Rick Kolb were just six-of-seven for 39 yards after two periods. The run­ning statistics were worse-a minus-12 
I 
I I 

on 14 plays. 
"The key was our attitude," explained linebacker Mark Zavagnin, who re­corded both a fumble recovery and an interception. "It was team defense all the way-we didn't just rely on one or two people to make the play. Everyone was getting to the ball." 
All told, Notre Dame recorded 10 tackles ·behind . the line of scrimmage for a negative 74 yards.· Linebacker Mike Larkin led the charge with 11 stops; Stacey Toran contributed 10 to go with his three pass break-ups. 
"We were so ready," added Griffith. "Everything we were told about them by our coaches in practice was right. ... It was like a rerun out on the field of somewhere we'd been before." 
Griffith literally experienced a line­man's dream during the plays leading up to the final-quarter safety. With, the Spartans lined up at their own 29, the 6-3, 245-pound senior dropped ball­carrier Tony Ellis for a five-yard loss on firs~ down, sacked Leister for a 14-yard loss on second down, and combined with Gann to catch the retreating signal­caller in the end zone for the first points of the game. 
Gann remembered the play vividly: "I stunted inside over their guard and got past the tackle. Then I grabbed Leister by the shirt, and Griff finished Mike Gann puts a jersey hold on Spartan quarterback John Leister, as Kevin Griffith maneuvers past a Michigan State defender to apply the finishing touches. The first-period play produced the first points of the afternoon. 


next time.
him off." 
"Now we emphasize going for theThe two Irish "G-Men" made it a ball and going for the interception. Welong day for the Michigan State back­had four today, so I guess it's working." 
field. Gann dumped a Spartan for nega­But the Michigan State defense wasn't tive turf on two other occasions, and exactly out of order, either. It kept theforced the fumble that Griffith re­Irish at bay most of the game and heldcovered in the fourth quarter. 
them to 154 yards on the ground -far
"We came into the game thinking pass rush," said the sophomore tackle, Tom Thayer: below its 23 8-yard per game average. "because we had worked so hard on 'I guess we thought And junior quarterback Blair Kiel our rushing technique in practice all completed only nine of 20 pass at-·

since we were playing 
tempts, along with being interceptedweek. We knew we'd have to put pres­a team that was 0-3 three times, after completing 61 percentsure on the passers, or they'd hurt us, of his tosses without a pick-off his firstso we did." 

we treated them 

two games.
And that strategy made things a whole lot easier for the Irish secondary, a little lackadaisically. Michigan State linebackers James which allowed the two Spartan quarter­But the best thing Neely and Jim Morrissey were two big 
reasons the Irish had trouble. The pairbacks 16 of 40 connections up top for 
121 yards. about today combined for 41 tackles, pretty much Itaking away Notre Dame's bread-and­
Those numbers also included four was when the offense I interceptions -a pair by cornerback butter running attack. Chris Brown and one each by safety was having one "Our coaches had Notre Dame very I I 
Dave Duerson and Zavagnin-and a of those days, well scouted," said defensive tackle I Howard MacAdoo, who had nine I
longest passing gain of just 14 yards. It was a pretty impressive perfor­those eleven guys tackles. "They had no surprises." I 
mance by a unit that a week earlier on defense Poor field position, too, dictated con­servative play-calling on the part of the I
surrendered 278 yards to Purdue's pre­I 
mier passer, Scott Campbell. Brown ac­did it for us.' Irish offensive braintrust. There simply ! was no finding an Achilles' heel on the
counted for the difference. 
Spartan defense.
"We changed our coverage so we "I didn't know what to call in the Iwould have more reaction to the ball. 

We used to lay back and wait, then fourth quarter," admitted quarterback I coach Ron· Hud~on. "They had every­
punish the receiver, give him a warning thing shut off; they were very well pre-i
so he wouldn't come into that area the 15 
I 
! 
pared. 
"It was tough because when you're 
protecting a slim lead you don't want 
to go nuts throwing the ball. They took 
everything else away from us. I honestly 
wasn't sure what would work." 
"With our offense, I was sure we 
could score a touchdown," stated Kiel. 
"And we should have. It was just one of 
those things where we didn't execute 
like we· should have. We know we're 
human like everyone else, but we feel 
we have a potent enough offense that 
we should score at least one touch­
down." 
Kiel and Joe Howard teamed up for 
what turned out to be the closest thing 
to a touchdown in the third quarter. 
After engineering an Irish drive down 
to the enemy 44, Kiel rolled left and 
threw an apparent scoring strike to 
Howard, but the junior slinger was 
ruled beyond the line of scrimmage 
when he released the ball. 
Then there was another opportunity to cross the goal line late in the fourth period, when Notre Dame had maneu­vered to a first-and-goal situation at fhe Spartan 10. On fourth down, inches from the end zone, Kiel gave the ball to Phil Carter on a slant off left tackle. The stubborn Spartans refused to break, though, and restrained the senior tail­back at the one. 
"Their defense is comparable to any­one I've ever played against," praised Carter, who averaged just 2.8 yards per carry all afternoon. He finished with 101 yards, but it took him 36 carries to do so. 
"They were so quick I couldn't get outside or inside. Usually, you can see the holes, but there just weren't any there today." 
Michigan State 0 0 0 Notre Dame 2 9 0 0 II 

Blair Kiel: 'It was just one of those things where we didn't execute like we should have. We know we're human like everyone else, but we feel we have a potent enough offense that we should score at least one touchdown.' 
Down by only eight points, the Spar­
tans got five more opportunities to 
make it a game, but as long as the Irish 
defense was available, Notre Dame's 
lead remained in good hands. 
Two Michigan State possessions ended in punts; three others ended in turnovers. 
"The defense and Mike Johnston won the game for us," complimented Kiel. "They played to their potential today." 
And their performance sent the Irish into the Miami game with a 3-0 record -something few people thought pos­sible when the season began. · 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time MS ND NO-Safety, John Leister tackled 
in end zone by Mike Gann 6:20 0 2 Second Quarter 
ND-Mike Johnston 33 FG 11:00 0 S Drive: 79 yards in II plays following Michigan State punt; Elapsed Time: 4:00; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for 19 yards. 
NO-Mike Johnston 29 FG 5:08 0 8 Drive: 42 yards in eight plays following Michigan State punt; Elapsed Time: 3:49; Big Plays: Blair Kiel pass to Van Pearcy for IS yards, Larry Moriarty run for 18 yards. 
NO-Mike Johnston 42 FG :04 0 II Drive: 40 yards in three plays following Mark Zavagnin recovery of Michigan State fumble; Elapsed Time: :39; Big Play: Phil Carter run for IS yards. 
Third Quarter 
MSU-Ralf Mojsiejenko SO FG 7:25 3 II Drive: eight yards in four plays follow­ing Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 
:48. A-77,119 
Team Statistics ND MSU 

First Downs 16 13 Rushing 7 4 Passing 7 7 
Penalty 2 2 
Rushing Attempts 59 28 Yards Rushing 
180 93 

Yards Lost Rushing 26 74 Net Yards Rushing 154 19 Net Yards Passing 
126 121 

Passes Attempted 
20 40 

Passes Completed 9 16 
Had Intercepted 3 4 
Total Offensive Plays 79 68 Total Net Yards 
280 140 

Average Gain Per Play 3.54 
2.06 

Fumbles: Number-Lost 0-0 4-2 Penalties: Number-Yards S-45 
S-61 

Interceptions: Number-Yards 4-67 
3-8 

Number of Punts-Yards 11-457 10-485 Average Per Punt 
41.5 48.5 

Punt Returns: Number-Yards S-17 7-43 
Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-13 2-43 
Individual Statistics Michigan State 

Rushing Marcus Toney Aaron Roberts Lance Hawkins Tony Ellis Rich Kolb John Leister  Att. 3 s 2 9 2 7  Gain Lost 20 / 0 18 4 14 0 25 19 0 13 16 38  Net 20 14 14 6 -13 -22  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0  Long 17 8 8 II 0 9  
Passing John Leister Rich Kolb Marcus Toney  Att. Comp. 21 8 18 8 I 0  Int. 2 2 0  Yards 101 20 0  TD 0 0 0  Long 14 7 0  
·Pass Receiving Marcus Toney Tony Ellis Daryl Turner Tom Robinson Butch Rolle Ted Jones John Hurt Otis Grant  No. 4 3 2 2 2 I I I  Yards 27 17 20 19 9 12 9 8  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  Long 10 10 13 14 s 12 9 8  
Punting Ralf Mojsiejenko  No. 10  Yds. Avg. 485 48.5  Long 63  
Field Goals Ralf Mojsiejenko  Att.Made I I  Long 63  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Phil Carter Larry Moriarty Allen Pinkett Mark Brooks Blair Kiel  Att. 36 12 s I s  Gain Lost 107 6 59 2 II 0 I 0 2 18  Net 101 57 II I -16  TD 0 0 0 0 0  Long 17 18 s I 2  
Passing Blair Kiel  Att. Comp. 20 9  Int. 3  Yards 126  TD 0  Long 20  
Pass Receiving Tony Hunter Joe Howard Mike Favorite Van Pearcy Phil Carter Larry Moriarty  No. 3 2 I I I I  Yards 46 39 17 IS 7 2  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0  Long 19 20 17 IS 7 2  
Punting Blair Kiel  No. II  Yds. Avg. 457 41.5  Long 59  
Field Goals Mike Johnston  Att.Made 3 3  Long 42  


Spartan ballcarriers had all they could do to avoid the legions of Irish tacklers, as Ted Jones attempts to sidestep Joe Rudzinski on this occasion. 
Miami 



Making True Believers 
By KAREN CROAKE 

When Miami cornerback Rodney Bellinger intercepted a Blair Kiel pass in the end zone with just 2:58 left on the Notre Dame Stadium clock, the Hurricanes thought their slim 14-13 advantage was safe. 
The visitors' bench, awash with white and orange jerseys on the south side of the field, erupted in jubilation. The Miami players, and maybe even their coaching staff, believed they fi­nally had earned their first win in six visits to the hallowed brick structure on Juniper Road. 
· Middle guard Tony Fitzpatrick, who had been trying to engage Notre Dame center Tom Thayer in a friendly, in­tellectual conversation all afternoon, hollered, "There goes your game; it's over." 
But the feisty Fitzpatrick failed to get a rise out of the calm, cool and confident senior. _ 

"I just looked at him and said, 'This is Notre Dame, and it's never over,'" replied Thayer. 
Although the 59,075 fans in the cold and damp Stadium seats might not ad­mit it now, most probably agreed with Fitzpatrick as they shivered in the growing darkness enveloping the field and Notre Dame's hopes for its fourth consecutive win. But Thayer and his teammates knew differently. 
"We knew there was time left if we got the ball back," said Irish tri-cap­tain Mark Zavagnin. "And if we got the ball back, the offense would go in and score. I guess by the time you get to be a senior around this place noth­ing ever surprises you." 
And so, for the first time since he 
arrived on the Notre Dame campus two years ago, Gerry Faust -who has heard the tales of past gridiron glories -finally witnessed his own version of those patented Irish come-from-be­hind, last-second rallies that Notre Dame fans have come to expect as commonplace, every-game happenings. 
The hero's role in this award-win­ning drama was played by kicker Mike Johnston, who calmly booted a 32-yard field goal from the left hash mark with just 11 ticks remaining to give Notre Dame a 16-14 victory and preserve its unblemished record at 4-0. 
"It was a great comeback effort by the whole team," said an elated and relieved Faust. "But that's what Notre Dame football is all about. Our foot­ball team showed a lot of heart . and character. Coming from behind like that showed we have matured as a team. Everyone believes again. 

Mike Johnston's ninth consecutive field goal of the young season proved to be his biggest yet-as his 32-yarder with only 11 seconds remaining provided the critical margin in the 16-14 Irish victory over Miami. Johnston had been successful from 42 and· 29 yards earlier in the afternoon. 




"And I'm sure glad I gave that num­ber four (Johnston) a scholarship this fall!" 
But Johnston, who ·established a Notre Dame record for most consecu­tive field goals on his last kick -his ninth in nine attempts this season ­almost didn't get the chance to don his hero's apparel. 
Bellinger's theft in the end zone wiped out a Notre Dame rally that had started on the Irish 43-yard line. Thanks to some punishing running by tailback Phil Carter, who picked up 24 yards on five carries in the series, and a 21-yard burst up the middle by fullback Larry Moriarty, the Irish bulldozed their way to the six-yard line while consuming five precious minutes on the clock. But on second and goal, Kiel -who tallied personal bests in the passing department with 21 comple­tions in 33 attempts -looked in the end zone to pass for the first time in the drive and lofted the ball into the waiting arms of the 5-9 Bellinger, in­stead of his intended receiver, 6-3 full­back Mark Brooks. 
"It's a play designed to fake a wide sweep, and then I'm supposed to follow the fake on a sprintout," explained Kiel. "I had to pull up because I thought they had the sprintout con­tained. It was a very, very bad mistake on my part. As ·I left the field, I was praying for another chance." 
His prayers were answered, via the Notre Dame defense. 
With just under three minutes re­maining, Miami seemed destined for its fifth win of the season, while the Irish were staring their first defeat of the '82 campaign right in the face. The Hurricanes needed to control posses­sion of the football and run out the clock -two relatively simple tasks ­and their mission would be complete. 
On the first play from scrimmage, Miami halfback Keith Griffin, who finished as the Hurricanes' top ground gainer in the game with a paltry 48 yards, slammed through the Notre Dame defense for a gain of eight. But on the next snap of the ball, the Notre Dame stop troops came alive and re­fused to let Speedy Neal past the line of scrimmage. Facing a third-and-two situation, quarterback Mark Richt ­a fifth-year senior who stepped into the starting spot after. All-America candi­date Jim Kelly was injured and lost for (the season three weeks earlier -de­cided to go for it himself. He was met at the line by a Notre Dame welcom­ing committee of Mike Gann, Bob Clasby and Zavagnin. 
"It was strictly my decision to go for the sneak," admitted Richt. "I'm the man to pin the loss on. I did it because I figured there wouldn't be anybody in the middle to stop me. If I had executed, we would have won." 

"I couldn't believe it, he ran right into me," said Zavagnin, who ac­counted for nine tackles and Notre Dame's only interception. "That play is something they'll have to live with." 
Richt had underestimated the Notre Dame defense, which continued its na­tion-leading effort against the run by limiting the Hurricanes to just 67 yards rushing, 218 total offensive yards and 15 first downs. 
So with 1:37 showing on the clock, the Irish were back in business. The stage was set, and the smell of sweet revenge for the previous year's 37-15 drubbing in the Orange Bowl was in the crisp autumn air. 
Starting from his own 30-yard line, Kiel-obviously not gun-shy after his interception and ready to make amends -rifled a pass to Carter, who side­stepped tackle Joe Kohlbrand and turned the catch into a 25-yard gain. Kiel then ticketed passes to tight end Tony Hunter for nine yards and split end Joe Howard for seven. Carter, playing with a broken thumb on his right hand and a fractured middle finger on his left, bullied his way up­field on a counter play for another 10 yards. After a two-yard gain and a five-yard penalty, one of 10 whistled against the Irish during the afternoon, Carter brought the Irish into field goal range by breaking a tackle and scooting 11 yards up the left side. After both teams used their last timeouts, Johnston trotted on the field. 
''Sure, I was a little nervous," con­fessed· Johnston, who accounted for 34 of Notre Dame's 78 points through the Miami contest. "When you get into a situation like that, you just have to let your mind go blank and concen­trate on kicking the ball. When we were marching downfield, I tried not to think about what was going on out there. I just kept kicking the ball into the net on our sideline and tried to stay loose. I knew it was good when I kicked it. Then· I went crazy." 
"I was not thinking about the mys­tique of Notre Dame at the end of the game," revealed Miami linebacker Jay Brophy, who collared 15 stops while his Iinemate Greg Brown turned in a game-high 17 tackles. "But I never counted Notre Dame out. You never know if you have a team beaten. This loss really hurts." 
Miami coach Howard Schnellen­berger' couldn't hide his disappointment or explain his team's downfall as the Hurricanes slipped to 4-2. 
"Notre Dame had a well-conceived game plan. They just took it to us. There at the end, I don't know if Notre Dame outexecuted us or if it was our own ineptness that beat us. But they drove on us, so give them credit. We had a chance to win the ball game, but we blew it." 
The fourth-quarter fireworks re­deemed a lackluster showing by the offensive units of both teams in the first half. Kiel and Miami's Greg La­Belle conducted a punting clinic throughout much of the initial 30 min­utes as both squads had trouble main­taining a drive. The Hurricanes failed to cross midfield in the first quarter, while Notre Dame couldn't take advan­tage of a Miami gift. Zavagnin in­tercepted Richt's first pass of the game 
l 

and returned it to the Hurricane 47-I yard line, but the offense stalled five plays later on the 38. 
The Irish finally ended the drought late in the second period. Defensive end Kevin Griffith, who bruised his right knee later in the quarter and sat out the remainder of the game, sacked Richt and forced the Hurricane quar­terback to cough up the ball for the second time in the game. This time tackle Mike Gann pounced on the ball at the Miami 12-yard line. 
Kiel, who finished the day with 167 yards through the airwaves, completed a pop pass over the middle to Hunter for a seven-yard gain and then scrambled right and dove into the end zone for Notre Dame's only touchdown of the afternoon and its first since the fourth quarter of the Purdue game. Johnston's PAT put the Irish on top, and Notre Dame took that lead to the locker room at halftime. 
Miami knotted the score on its first possession of the second half with the help of two costly Notre Dame penal­ties. A pass interference call gave the Hurricanes a 34-yard advance, and a whistle for a personal foul tacked nine more yards onto the drive. Richt hit tight end Glenn Dennison for a 17­yard gain and, then hooked up with him again on a one-yard scoring strike. Jeff Davis converted the extra point. 
Notre Dame took the lead back later in the third period when Johnston kicked a 29-yard field goal. Moriarty, who ended the day as the game's sec­ond-leading rusher with 66 yards, gained 21 of them on a play up the middle during the 52-yard drive. 
But Miami, with Richt .still at the 
··----..., 


Miami 0 0 7 14 
Notre Dame 0 7 3 6 16 
Scoring Summary 


All eyes, including those of sophomore linebacker Mike Larkin, arc on the football as Miami quarterback Mark Richt prepares to uncork one. 
controls, rebounded from that short­lived setback with some razzle-dazzle. Since the Irish defense had constructed a roadblock that stymied the Miami ground game, Richt piloted Miami to the end zone with a trio of passes. Be­ginning operations on his own 11-yard line, Richt hit Neal over the middle for a three-yard gain and then found wide receiver Rodney Belk for a seven-yard completion. Richt then unloaded a bomb to Belk, who managed to turn defender Dave Duerson around near the 30-yard line and waltz into the end zone untouched. 
"That's the first time I've ever given up a touchdown pass in my life," sighed Duerson. "I thought I had him covered. We were running toe-to-toe, and I misjudged the ball. He cut un­der me, and that was that." 
Richt, who had prepared for the rainy day contest by dipping the foot­ball into a bucket of water before each throw during a Friday workout, completed 12 of 25 passes for 151 yards. 
Behind for the first time in the fourth quarter this season, Notre Dame pulled back to within striking distance with Johnston's 42-yard field goal at the 8:27 mark. Carter, who was lim­ited to just 17 yards rushing in the first half, managed 19 in this 45-yard drive and ended the afternoon as the game's top ground gainer with 92 yards. That total upped his career figure to 2,097, good for fifth place on the all-time Irish rushing list. 

"Phil played a great game for us and has really been a great captain this year," praised Faust. "He's a team player and has geared his efforts to­ward helping the team. Holding onto the ball wasn't easy with two broken fingers, but he did a heckuva job." 
As the celebration quieted down in the locker room after the victory, Faust presented game balls to Johnston, his snapper Kevin Kelly, his holder Ken Karcher and Thayer, who had moved from his regular guard spot to the center position after regular Mark Fischer went down with an injury the previous Saturday against Michigan State. The team awarded another game ball to offensive line coach Carl Selmer, who had served a two-year stint at Miami as head coach in 1975 and 1976. 
"Coach Selmer told me earlier that when Miami let him go he told them he'd be back," said Thayer. "That's when I knew how much this game meant to him. We wanted to win this for him." 
Flnt Quarter Time UM ND 
NO-Blair Kiel6 run 2:2S 0 7 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 12 yards in three plays following Mike Gann recovery of Miami fumble; Elapsed Time: I :24. 
Third Quarter UM-Gienn Dennison I pass from 
MarkRicht 11:47 (Jeff Davis kick) Drive: 74 yards in seven plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 3:13; Big Play: 34-yard pass in­terference penalty against Notre Dame. 

NO-Mike Johnston 29 FG 2:53 7 10 Drive: 52 yards in nine plays following Miami punt; Elapsed Time: 3:46; Big Play: Larry Moriarty run for 21 yards. 
Fourtb Quarter UM-Rocky Belk 79 pass 
from Mark Riehl 13:03 14 10 (Jeff Davis kick) Drive: 89 yards in three plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 1:14; 

NO-Mike Johnston 42 FG 8:27 14 13 Drive: 45 yards in 10 plays following Miami kickoff; Elapsed Time: 4:36; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for II yards. 
, NO-Mike Johnston 32 FG :11 14 16 
· Drive: SS yards in eight plays following Miami punt; Elapsed Time: 1:36; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Phil Carter for 2S yards. 
A-S9,07S 
Team Statistics UM ND 

First Downs 10 21 Rushing I 12 Passing 7 7 Penalty 2 2 Rushing Attempts 31 so Yards Rushing 82 221 Yards Lost Rushing IS 24 Net Yards Rushing 67 197 Net Yards Passing lSI 167 Passes Attempted 26 33 Passes Completed 12 21 Had Intercepted I I Total Offensive Plays S7 83 Total Net Yards 218 364 Average Gain Per Play 3.8 4.4 Fumbles: Number-Lost 4-2 1.0 Penalties: Number-Yards S-46 10-lOS Interceptions: Number-Yards 1.0 1-16 Number of Punts-Yards 8-342 9-402 Average Per Punt 42.7 44.6 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-8 4-31 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 4-85 2-SI 
Individual Statistics Miami Rusblng Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Keith Griffin 10 49 I 48 0 9 Robert Neal 10 19 0 19 0 6 Mark Rush 2 s 0 .s 0 3 Albert Bently 2 2 0 2 0 I Mark Richt 7 7 14 -7 0 3 
Passing Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Mark Riehl 2S 12 I lSI 2 79 Mark Rush I 0 0 0 0 0 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Robert Neal 4 2S 0 13 Rocky Belk 3 90 I ' 79 Glenn Dennison 3 30 I 17 Stanley Shakespeare I s 0 s Mark Rush I I 0 I 
Punting No. Yds. Avg. Long Greg LaBelle 8 342 42.7 S4 
Notre Dame Rusblng Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Phil Carter 24 96 4 92 0 10 Larry Moriarty 9 69 3 66 0 21 Blair Kiel 6 2S 4 21 I 12 Allen Pinkett 6 22 2 20 0 IS , Mark Brooks 4 9 0 9 0 3 Van Pearcy I 0 II -11 0 -II Passing Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Blair Kiel 33 21 I 167 0 2S 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Larry Moriarty 6 34 0 IS Phil Carter 4 46 0 2S Joe Howard 4 46 0 20 Tony Hunter 3 27 0 11 Van Pearcy 3 20 0 11 Allen Pinkett I -6 0 -6 
Punting No. Yds. Avg. Long Blair Kiel 9 402 44.6 60 
Field Goals Att.Made Long Mike Johnston 3 3 42 
Arizona 


New Winner for Old Script 
By JOHN LEWANDOWSKI Turnabout is fair play. The Fighting Irish had won their fourth consecutive game of the 1982 season in a typical Notre Dame story­book finish the previous weekend. Mike Johnston preserved the. unbeaten rec­ord with a 32-yard field goal with 11 ticks remaining on the clock to com­plete a 16-14 come-from-behind vic­tory over Miami. , But the tables were turned on this overcast and rainy Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium as freshman place­kicker Max Zendejas connected on a 48-yard field goal into the wind as time expired, giving Arizona a dramatic 16­13 upset victory over ninth-ranked Notre Dame. "I told my team today that this was the most prestigious victory for the University of Arizona," said third-year Arizona coach Larry Smith, whose team had managed an encouraging 24-24 stalemate the previous Saturday with eighth-ranked (and eventual Rose Bowl winner) UCLA in the Rose Bowl. "We've been through this before," continued Smith, whose Wildcats 
····-<··!

knocked off second-ranked UCLA 23-' ... ~~<-·. :/:J
...-.

17 in '80 and shocked then top-ranked ... ~ "•? : • ! 
'""\.,;~ ·.J

USC 13-10 in Los Angeles in '81. "It 
"'"I...j 

was just a matter of believing in our­., selves, believing we could do it and executing." 
Smith, a former assistant under Bo Schembechler at Michigan and Jim Young at Arizona, must have had his doubts about an upset 11-and-a-half 
Max Zendejas didn't get to see the culmination of his game-winning kick, but his
minutes into the contest when Notre Dame roared to a 10-0 advantage. After three incomplete pass attempts  teammate quickly got the Stacey Toran.  message,  as  did Irish defenders Dave· Duerson and  
on the opening series by junior quarter­ The Irish started their second drive of  agility gave the Irish tailback slot the  
back  Tom  Tunnicliffe  and  a  24-yard  the afternoon from their own 33. Mix­ game-breaking threat that it had prior  
punt by Craig Schiller, the Irish offense  ing the run and pass well, Kiel directed  to Greg Bell's season-ending injury.  
took  possession  at  the  Arizona  44.  the Fighting Irish  to· the Arizona 25.  But  a  scoreless second quarter  was  
Junior quarterback Blair Kiel had . the  On  a  first-down call, Kiel pitched left  the beginning of the problems for the  
hot hand in the first half, completing  to  freshman  Allen Pinkett who  broke  Fighting  Irish.  The  offense  began  to  
eight of 11 for 59 yards. The Colum­ to  the  center  of the field  against the  sputter  as  Kiel  suffered  two  intercep­ 
bus, Ind., native directed the Irish 39  flow of the defensive pursuit and high­ tions.  Arizona,  however,  was  unable  
yards  to  the  Aiizona  five  before the  stepped into the end  zone  to  increase  to capitalize on the initial miscue. Af­ 
drive  stalled.  The  time-consuming  Notre  Dame's  lead ·to  9-0.  Johnston  ter the first pickoff by John Kaiser at  
march (6:48) culminated in  a  22-yard  tacked  on  the  conversion  and  with  the Notre Dame 23, the Irish defense  
field  goal  by  Mike  Johnston,  giving  3:37 remainin'g in the first quarter the  refused to yield and Zendejas' first field  
Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. Kiel was four  Irish  enjoyed  a  comfortable  10-0 ad- goal try of the afternoon fell short from  
for  four throwing  the football  during  vantage.  ·  38 yards away.  
the scoring drive.  Pinkett's first collegiate scoring  run  The  Wildcats  were  hapless  in  the  
After the ensuing kickoff, the Wild­ was  just a sample of the explosiveness  first half, picking up only 75 yards to­ 
cats  ran  four  plays  from  scrimmage  he would  add  to  the Irish offense  as  tal offense and four first downs. How­ 
and  once  again  were  forced  to  punt.  the  season  progressed.  His speed and  ever,  aided by two Notre Dame turn­ 
21  

:I 

over.s, Arizona clawed to within four points early in the third quarter. Ray Moret's interception of a Kiel pass one minute into the half set up a 38-yard field goal for Zendejas. Joe Howard fumbled the ensuing kickoff and Don Be'Ans recovered for the Wildcats, setting the stage for Zendejas' second field goal within a span of 59 seconds, this one from 32 yards out. 
"We had too many turnovers and gave them too much field position too many times," said Irish coach Gerry Faust, who saw his team stumble for the first time in 1982. "You can't keep a defense on the field that long and have it be effective." 
The Fighting Irish chalked up 176 yards in total offense in the first half while controlling the clock for 20:18. However, the second half proved to be a complete reversal. The Irish could muster just 52 yards after intermission as the. Wildcats ate up 19-and-a-half minutes of the 30 following intermis­sion. 
Johnston provided Notre Dame's only offense of the second half. With 14:11 remaining in the contest, the Rochester, N.Y., native connected on a 43-yard . field goal, his 11th consecutive three­pointer of the season, establishing a career standard for Irish placekickers. Chuck Male had converted a string of 10 straight field goals during the '78 and '79 seasons. 
Trailing 13-6, Tunnicliffe and Co. responded to the challenge. Tunnicliffe, who made his first collegiate start in '80 against Notre Dame in Tucson, completed seven of nine throws during the scoring march -accounting for 
Max Zendejas: 'I never really saw the ball go through. I was knocked down as soon as I kicked it. Then my teammates started yelling and jumping on me, so I knew that I had made it. I was kind of nervous because I'd missed tWo already so I just concentrated harder. I knew I would make it, though.' 
78 of the 79 yards. The key completion 
proved a 14-yarder to tight end Mark 
Keel on a third-and-four play from the 
Irish 18. Sophomore tailback Phil Free­
man toted the ball the final yard to cap 'the tying drive that knocked 5:31 off the clock. Notre Dame made a bid to break 

the tie. A pair of completions by Blair Kiel and Phil Carter's 17 rushing yards gave the Irish a first-and-1 0 at the Arizona 39 with fewer than six min­utes remammg on the scoreboard clock. However, the Wildcat defense­led by safeties Alfred Gross and Tony Neely and linebackers Glenn Perkins and Ricky Hunlay-put the clamps on the Irish aerial attack. On a third­and-13 attempt, Kiel was flushed out of the pocket and his toss down the right sideline for Joe Howard fell in­complete at the Wildcat 15. 
Mike Viracola's punt sailed into the end zone and the stage was set for Arizona's upset bid. With 4:16 left and the goal line 80 yards away, Tunni­cliffe instigated the game-winning drive. He quickly picked up 29 yards via the air, . then scrambled for 10 more. In seven plays, the Wildcats were just 33 yards from paydirt. On.a second-and-16 call, Tunnicliffe was forced out of the pocket and used his· resourcefulness to salvage a three-yard gain after nearly being sacked at the Irish 40. Smith then allowed the clock to run down to six seconds before calling timeout. 
On came Zendejas to attempt a 48­yard field goal into the face of a north­west wind that fluctuated between five and 15 miles an hour. Zendejas already had missed a 48-yarder with the wind in the third quarter. Faust called time­out hoping to ice the Arizona soccer­style kicker. But neither the timeout nor crosswind broke Zendejas' concen­tration. His boot floated end over end through the uprights as time ran out. 
"I never really saw the ball go through," explained the freshman placekicker. "I was knocked down as soon as I kicked· it. Then my team­mates started yelling and jumping on me, so I knew that I had made it. I was kind of nervous because I'd missed two already so I just concentrated harder. I knew I would make it, though." 
The Wildcats won on execution. Af­ter an unproductive first half, the of­fense churned out 272 yards in total offense and lost the ball only once. "The offense kept the defense off the field in the second half," explained Smith whose team improved to 2-2-1 on the season. "Although we missed some field goal opportunities, we ate up time on the clock and the defense came up with the big play. 
"I felt at the end of the game that if we kept it within the 35-yard line we had a chance to win it with a field goal," reflected Smith. "The wind was a factor. We wanted to get it as close as possible while staying in the middle of the field." 

Arizona 0 0 6 10 16 
Notre Dame 10 0 0 3 13 
Scoring Summary Flnt Quarter Time UA ND NO-Mike Johnston 22 FG 7:48 0 3 
Drive: 44 yards in 13 plays following Arizona kickoff; Elapsed Time: 6:48; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for 13 yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 25 run 3:37 0 10 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 67 yards in seven plays following Arizona punt; Elapsed Time: 2:29; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run for 11 yards. 
Third Quarter 
UA-Max Zendejas 38 FG 10:18 3 10 Drive: 18 yards in seven plays following Ray Moret interception of Notre Dame pass; Elapsed Time; 3:42; Big Play: Five yard illegal procedure penalty against Notre Dame gives Arizona first down. 
UA-Max Zendejas 32 FG 9:19 6 10 Drive: one yard in three plays following Don Be' Ans recovery of Notre Dame fumble; Elapsed Time: :53. 
Fourth Quarter 
NO-Mike Johnston 43 FG 14:11 6 13 Drive: nine yards in three plays follow­ing Mike Golic recovery of Arizona fumble; Elapsed Time: I :52. 
UA-Phil Freeman 1 run 8:40 13 13 (Max Zendejas kick) Drive: 79 yards in 14 plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 5:31; Big Plays: Tom Tunnicliffe passes to Jay Dobyns for II yards and to Mark Keel for 14 yards. 
UA-Max Zendejas 48 FG :00 16 13 Drive: 49 yards in nine plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 4:16; Big Play: Tom Tunnicliffe pass to Brad Anderson for 19 yards. 
A-S9,01S 
Team Statistics UA ND 

First Downs 19 IS Rushing s 10 Passing 11 4 Penalty 3 I Rushing Attempts 34 42 Yards Rushing 94 163 Yards Lost Rushing 21 IS Net Yards Rushing 73 148 Net Yards Passing 199 80 Passes Attempted 38 21 Passes Completed 19 13 Had Intercepted 0 3 Total Offensive Plays 72 63 Total Net Yards 272 228 Average Gain Per Play 3.8 3.6 Fumbles: Number-Lost 3·1 3-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 4-20 7-30 Interceptions: Number-Yards 3-2 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards S-188 4-156 Average Per Punt 37.6 39.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 0-0 0-0 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-21 4-95 
Individual Statistics Arizona 

Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Phil Freeman  11  33  3  30  I  16  
Courtney Griffin  7  14  0  14  0  s  
Vance Johnson  s  14  2  12  0  6  
Tom Tunnicliffe  7  2S  16  9  0  10  
William Redman  4  8  0  8  0  3  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  m  Long  
Tom Tunnicliffe  38  19  0  199  0  21  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Brad Anderson  s  61  0  19  
Mark Keel  4  36  0  14  
Vance Johnson  3  30  0  14  
Courtney Griffin  3  29  0  18  
Kevin Ward  2  28  0  21  
Jay Dobyns  2  IS  0  11  
Punting  No.  Yds. Avg.  Long  
Craig Schiller  s  188 37.6  49  
Field Goals  Att.l\fade  Long  
Max Zendejas  s  3  48  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Att.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Phil Carter  IS  ss  3  52  0  8  
Mark Brooks  13  51  4  47  0  10  
Allen Pinkett  10  44  7  37  I  2S  
Blair Kicl  6  13  I  12  0  s  
Passing  Att. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Blair Kiel  21  13  3  80  0  13  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Mark Brooks  s  28  0  13  
Joe Howard  4  33  0  10  
Van Pearcy  2  10  0  8  
Tony Hunter  I  13  0  13  
Phil Carter  I  -4  0  -4  
Punting  No.  Yds. Avg.  Long  
Blair Kiel  3  114 38.0  43  
Mike Viracola  1  42  42.0  42  
Field Goals  Att.Made  Long  
Mike Johnston  2  2  43  


Oregon 

Can't Get No Satisfaction 

By JOHN HEISLER 
They came from Reedsport and Rose­burg, from Coos Bay and Coquille and Cottage Grove. 
They came from Oregon and Wash­ington and Idaho and just about every­where in the Pacific Northwest. They came to see Notre Dame's first visit to that part of the country to play football in 33 years. 
They filled several thousand hotel rooms in the Eugene area and they helped pump several million dollars into the depressed Oregon economy. They ate and drank and reveled in a scenario that Oregon football hadn't seen in years. 
The crowd of 40,381 marked Ore­gon's largest ever for a non-Pacific-10 game, and the $15.50 ticket price ($4.00 more than any of the other Duck home games) helped produce the largest gate in Oregon football history. 
The Irish gridders, however, went a little too far in their effort to send everyone home happy. Their offense sputtered and coughed its way to a 13-13 tie that provided an amazing high-water mark in an otherwise dismal 2-8-1 Oregon season. On the other hand, it proved to be a game Notre Dame would look upon as the low point of its campaign. 
For the Irish, who came in 4-1 and ranked 13th in the United Press Inter­

national poll, it was a tough tie to stomach. "A tie for us is like a loss," admitted Irish safety Dave Duerson. 
"I'm disappointed that we tied, but the way the offense played I'm glad we got out with it," added quarterback Blair Kiel. 
For the still winless Ducks, who came into the game at 0-6, the game proved to be a triumphant occasion everywhere but on the scoreboard. 
"If there is any satisfaction to be gained from a tie it has to be theirs,'' chimed in Duck fullback Terrance Jones, who scored the lone Oregon touchdown. "We kicked their butts all day and they are the ones who have to feel lucky to get out of here with a tie." 
There were no secrets involved in the football game. 
Notre Dame ended up with a tie be­cause its sporadic offense again failed to generate any momentum. The Irish converted only twice all afternoon on third down and 11 of Notre Dame's 16 possessions produced drives of 15 yards or less. 
The visitors hardly had to work for the 13 points they did garner. A pair of nifty, back-to-hack runs by freshman Allen Pinkett covered 30 yards to the end zone after Oregon botched a long snap to the punter on fourth down. And a third-period blocked punt by the Irish 
put them in position to move only 15 
yards before Mike Johnston booted a 
field goal. Only on the final Notre Dame 
possession of the day-when the Irish 
absolutely had to have yardage--did 
the offense show any spunk. 
Oregon ended up with a tie only be­

cause its specialty team miscues put 
Gerry Faust's crew in position for 10 
points. Rich Brooks' running game man­
aged all of .111 net rushing yards-no 
awesome figure in itself, but not bad 
considering the Irish had ranked first in 
the nation in rushing defense with a 
42.2-yard average and also considering 
Notre Dame managed only 80 ground 
yards itself. Jones' scoring run marked 
only the second rushing touchdown al­
lowed by the Irish all season long. 
"A week ago, I guess we were the 

only guys who believed we could win," 
said Oregon defensive end Mike Walter. 
"I got tired of people on campus, even 
friends, saying, 'You guys are going to 
get killed this weekend.' " 
It didn't turn out that way because Notre Dame _could never quite get its1 offensive machinery into gear-even after changing quarterbacks at halftime.· The football was exchanged five times in the first period before either team managed a first down. That fifth possession, however, put Oregon in a hole. With the Ducks ready to punt for the third time in the first half of the 
first period, punter Kevin Hicks couldn't find the handle on the snap from center. Mansel Carter battled Hicks for . pos­session, but it made no difference. The Ducks were stuck with a 20-yard loss on fourth down and it was Notre Dame's ball. 
Pinkett did his thing from that point. He fumbled out of bounds after a 24­yard gain, then went six yards for six points on the following play. In 12 sec­onds the Irish had gained 30 yards and a 7-0 advantage-and it looked like the beginning of what Notre Dame fans had hoped would be a romp over a winless opponent. But that was about all the romping the Irish would do. 
Notre Dame managed only three first downs the remainder of ·the first half and didn't come particularly close to putting any more points on the board. 
Oregon really wasn't any more effi­cient. The Ducks missed two field goals, and didn't accomplish much other than keep the Irish out of Oregon territory. 
· The home team's impressive kick-re­turn game did as much as anything to put the Ducks in position for their only first-half points. Immediately following Notre Dame's touchdown, return spe­cialist Steve Brown zipped up the middle for 38 yards with a Hal Von Wyl boot. Junior tailback Ladaria John­son motored for 22 yards through the right side on first down to move Oregon all the way to the Irish 40. 
Eight more plays produced only 20 yards and on fourth and 16 from the 20, Todd Lee-on his first attempt of the season-booted a three-pointer from 37 yards out. That made it 7-3 at the halftime break after a second period in which neither team made anything close to an offensive foray onto the other's turf. 
Irish fans may have been satisfied with that halftime advantage, but Gerry Faust wasn't. 
"I felt we just needed a spark," he said. "When things are not going well, you have to do things . to spark the offense.". 
Sophomore quarterback Ken Karcher was to be the spark-and Blair Kiel was relegated to the bench for the next period and a half. Despite the spark, not much of a fire resulted. 
Karcher did complete his first three passes, including a roll-out that pro­duced a 53-yard sideline grab by Joe Howard-the longest Irish pass comple­tion of the season to that point. 
But Karcher's inexperience proved evident, and the Irish paid for his rusti­ness. The first possession produced minus two yards. The next one ended in a Karcher fumble on a snap-after Notre Dame had moved to the Oregon 32 on the pass to Howard. The next one produced minus two yards, again. 



Meanwhile, Oregon had cut the Irish advantage to 7-6 on its initial fling with the football in the third period. A Kiel punt of only 33 yards from the Irish 18 left the Ducks on the Notre Dame 44. The nine-play drive gained half its 22 yards on a first-down pass to split end Eugene Young -then Lee eventually knocked through a 39-yard field goal. 
While the Notre Dame offense con­tinued to spin its wheels, its defensive counterpart put the Irish in position for an answering score. Stacey Toran broke through to partially block a Hicks punt, a play that created the most confusion of the afternoon. The ball crossed the line of scrimmage since it was only partly tipped, and Oregon's Steve John­son eventually ended up with it. But the officials gave the Irish possession and penalized Oregon for interference, handing Notre Dame the football at the Duck 40. 
"I'll be anxious to see films of that one," said Oregon coach Rich Brooks. "To me, that was a controversial call. I saw it as the Notre Dame man touching the ball first and us taking it away from him. In that case, it's our ball, first down. The officials said we touched it. first and if they are right the call is correct." 

The Irish moved in as far as the Oregon 16 before a Walter sack (he made five tackles, recovered a fumble and made two other stops for losses in earning the Pacifi.c-10 defensive player of the week honor) pushed them back to the 25 and forced a Mike Johnston field goal that made it 10-6. 
As the final minute of the third quar­ter ticked away, the home forces ini­tiated what proved to be the most note­worthy offensive excursion of the day. 
With quarterbacks Mike Jorgensen and Dana Hill both working effectively, the Ducks impressively marched the length of the field to take the lead. They produced rushing gains of six, seven, eight, seven and 12 yards against an Irish defense that normally had been allowing that much ground yardage in an entire game. 
"Their backs ran hard," remembered Irish linebacker Mark Zavagnin, "and our tackling was a little sloppy. I don't know if they wore us down or not. But we've got to be able to rise to the occasion." 
The clinching blow proved to be a first-down pass from Jorgensen to flanker Osborn Thomas who somehow hauled in the 23-yarder barely inbounds at the one despite the efforts of Duerson. 
"We had two people in short cover­

age and I was playing the deep half of 
the field," Duerson recalled. "I went 
for the ball and I was just amazed that 
he had the ball and I didn't. He made 
a super catch." 
"Choo Choo Young did a quick slant 

to bring the corner down," Thomas said. 
"Then I go to the sideline and up the 
field. Jorgy threw the ball right where 
it had to be." 
Jones took it in on the following play 

and the Irish-now trailing 13-10-­
knew it was time for some serious Duck 
hunting. 
After one more three-play-and-punt 

attempt with Karcher under center, the 
Irish went back to Kiel at quarterback. 
The junior delivered with Notre Dame 
73 yards from the end zone, 1:24 on the . clock and no time remaining. 
"Blair is the more experienced guy," 

noted Irish quarterback coach Ron 
Hudson. "We had to come back with 
him and I think he did a marvelous 
job." 
Kiel threw once to Tony Hunter for 

12 yards-but the two completions that 
loomed largest in the Ducks' eyes went 
to freshman Milt Jackson, who hadn't 
caught a pass since the opener against 
Michigan. The second of his grabs set 

Oregon backup quarterback Dana Hill receives a rude mid-air awakening from Irish linebacker Mark Zavagnin as Dave Duerson prepares to lend a hand if needed. · ' 
the Irish up with a first down on the 
Oregon 18. 
From there, the Ducks got tough. 

Kiel threw the ball out of bounds to 
stop the clock on first down. Dwight 
Ford and Walters came ever so close to 
sacking him on second and third down, 
respectively. With 13 seconds to go, 
Johnston calmly booted his 13th con­
secutive field goal, this one from 35 
yards away. 
Oregon ran off two more plays be­

fore the finish, but Joe Johnson inter­
cepted a Jorgensen pass on the final 
one. 
For an Oregon team that had yet to 

put up a "W" in the win-loss column, 
it had to be considered a moral victory 
of sorts. But there were few smiles on 
either sideline as the contest ended. 
There was plenty of frustration to go 
around in the tomb-like Irish dressing 
quarters. 
Faust found himself justifying the late Irish three-pointer, but he would ·have none of the media suggestions 
that the tie didn't help the visitors. 
"We've got too much at stake this 

year to risk going for the touchdown on 
fourth down. We're still in the picture 
in a lot of things. You just don't want to throw that away." 
Added Brooks, "I thought there was a chance of them going for it. Notre Dame tying Oregon isn't exactly my idea of a great game." 
The Ducks considered all kinds of plays which-if they had made just one -might have m?de them winners. 
Included were the missed field goals, the near sacks and especially a fight for the football with a minute and a half remaining when Duerson lost track of the Oregon punt and he and Oregon's Steve Johnson dove for it. 
More than anything, credit Brooks with convincing his players they weren't attacking the Irish legends. 
"The media tried to talk us into being intimidated, but I told the players that on each play they were lining up against just one man, not the Four Horsemen." 
A friendly Oregon fan had given Brooks a yellow-and-green T-shirt that read, "Today I'm the Gipper." 
"If it had ended 13-10, I'd have worn it," Brooks said. He darn near earned that chance. 

Oregon 0 7 13 
Notre Dame 0 
Scoring Summary Flnt Quarter Time UO ND NO-Allen Pinkett 6 run 7:27 0 7 
(Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 30 yards in two plays following 
Oregon loss of ball on downs; Elapsed 
Time: :12; Big Play: Allen Pinkett run 

for 24 yards. UO-Todd Lee 37 FG 3:S2 7 Drive: 42 yards in 10 plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 3:35; Big Play: Terrance Jones run for 16 yards. 
Third Quarter UO-Todd Lee 39 FG 9:37 6 7 
Drive: 22 yards in nine plays following 
Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: J:OS; 
Big Play: Mike Jorgenson run for one 

yard on fourth down. NO-Mike Johnston 42 FG :46 6 10 Drive: IS yards in eight plays following Stacey Toran block of Oregon punt; Elapsed Time: 3:38; Big Play: Phil Carter run for 12 yards. 
Fourth Quarter UO-Terrance Jones I run 10:27 13 10 
(Todd Lee kick) 
Drive: 80 yards in 10 plays following 
Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 
5:19; Big Play: Mike Jorgenson pass to 

Osborn Thomas for 23 yards. NO-Mike Johnson 35 FG :II 13 13 Drive: SS yards in 10 plays following Oregon punt; Elapsed Time: 1:13; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Milt Jackson for 23 yards. 
A-40,381 Team StatbtJcs 
ND uo First Downs II 13 Rushing 4 8 Passing 7 s Penalty 0 0 Rushing Attempts 31 S4 Yards Rushing 119 160 Yards Lost Rushing 39 49 Net Yards Rushing 80 Ill Net Yards Passing 173 101 Passes Attempted 28 22 Passes Completed 14 9 Had Intercepted I I Total Offensive Plays S9 76 Total Net Yards 253 212 Average Gain Per Play 4.3 2.8 Fumbles: Number-Lost 2-1 3-1 Penalties: Number-Yards 4-JS 2-32 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-38 1-S NumberofPunts-Yards 10-406 9-292 
Average Per Punt 40.6 32.4 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3-4 8-110 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 2-34 2-S6 
Individual Statistics Oregon Rushing Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Terrance Jones 14 62 0 62 I 16 Ladaria Johnson 8 30 2 28 0 22 Mike Jorgenson 17 39 IS 24 0 7 Dana Hill 7 16 I IS 0 6 Todd Bland 4 8 0 8 0 7 Dwight Robertson 2 5 0 s 0 4 Greg Hicks I 0 20 -20 0 -20 Henry Billups I 0 II -II 0 -II 
Passing Att. Comp. Int. Yards m LoOK Mike Jorgensen 21 8 I 96 0 27 Kevin Lusk I I 0 5 0 5 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Lon2 Doug Herman 3 38 0 27 Eugene Young 3 22 0 II Osborn Thomas 2 36 0 23 Ladaria Johnson I 5 0 5 
Notre Dame Rushing Att. Gain Lost Net TD Long Phil Carter 13 61 ·II so 0 16 Allen Pinkett 7 44 0 44 I 24 Mark Brooks 4 12 I II 0 7 Blair Kiel I 2 0 2 0 2 Larry Moriarty 2 0 I -I 0 -I Ken Karcher 4 0 26 -26 0 -4 
Passing Att. Comp. Int. Yards m Long Blair Kiel 21 9 I 97 0' 23 Ken Karcher 7 5 0 76 0 53 
Pass Receiving No. Yards m Long Tony Hunter 4 34 0 17 Joe Howard 3 67 0 53 Milt Jackson 2 38 0 23 Phil Carter 2 9 0 9 Mark Brooks I 10 0 10 Allen Pinkett I 9 0 9 Van Pearcy I 6 0 6 

Navy 

One Finally Won by Air 
By MICHAEL KEANE 

First, there had been a disappointing, home-field loss to Arizona. Then came a frustrating tie at Oregon. 
Despite a staunch defense, the Irish suddenly were struggling to put points on the board. They needed a bit of relief, and they spelled it N-A-V-Y. 
The Middies proved game -thanks especially to a game plan that featured quick throws by fill-in quarterback Tom Tarquinio. But an opportunistic Notre Dame secondary and the arm of Blair Kiel outmatched Navy for a 27-1 0 Irish success in an every-so-often visit to Giants Stadium in East Ruther­ford, N.J. 
In defeating the Middies, the Irish won for the 46th time in the 56-game series, the longest continuous intersec-. tional rivalry in football. Notre Dame also extended its unbeaten string over Navy to 19. Most importantly, how­ever, the Irish scored their most points since the Purdue game, including the first two touchdown passes of the year by any Notre Dame quarterback. 
The Irish headed into the contest hoping to improve their offensive pro­ficiency after failing to score more than 16 points in each of their last three games. The subject of touchdown passes was a popular topic as the NCAA statistics showed only two Di­vision I teams-Oklahoma and Notre Dame -without a touchdown pass. 
Due to injuries and other factors, Gerry Faust started three freshmen on the offensive unit to open the game ­tailback Allen Pinkett (subbing for the injured Phil Carter) and wide receivers Mike Haywood and Milt Jackson. The offense looked smooth in securing two first downs on its initial possession be­fore stalling. The drive proved futile when Mike Johnston's 34-yard field goal attempt was blocked, marking the senior's first miss of the year. 
Navy put together a fine drive after taking over, before the Irish defense came through with the first of six in­terceptions. Dave Duerson, who had three himself, stepped in front of a Tom Tarquinio pass at the 13 and re­turned it 46 yards to get the Irish out of trouble. 
Notre Dame's first possession of the second quarter saw the Irish put to­gether an eight play, 80-yard drive which ended in a three-yard scoring toss from Kiel to Chris Smith, a block­ing back in the Irish goal-line offense. Irish fans would see that same play 
.f'11 

Turnovers proved to be Navy's undoing, as six intercepted passes and a lost fumble made it nearly impossible for the 
Middie troops to mount an offensive. Jack Shields recovered this one for the Irish, setting up a second-quarter Mike Johnston field goal. 
two weeks later against Penn State. Kiel was immaculate on the drive, hit­ting all six of his tosses for 73 yards. 
Notre Dame's defense stiffened con­siderably and the offense moved im­pressively to a 40-yard field goal by Johnston with only 35 seconds left in the half. At one point in that second drive, Kiel -on his way to a first half featuring 13-of-21 throwing for 157 yards -had completed nine straight attempts. The Irish specialty teams helped the offense on the ensuing kick­off as Navy returner Napoleon Me-
Gerry Faust: 'We were concerned about our offense since we've been banged · up a little the last few weeks. But I thought the offense did an excellent job in the second and third periods when we had opportunities to put points on the board. We're pleased overall, but we've still got a long way to go. We still have to improve.' 
Callum lost the ball after a vicious hit by Tony Furjanic and Jack Shields-re­covered at the Middie 22. A 48-yard field goal by Johnston was the result as the Irish secured a 13-0 halftime lead. 
Navy had been relatively effective moving the ball with those short passes in the first two quarters, getting 103 yards on seven completions in 15 at­tempts. But the Irish defense blitzed much more in the second half, forcing Tarquinio to throw five interceptions and 22 incompletions in 33 attempts in the last half. The defense was par­Some helpful sideline consultation paid noteworthy dividends for the Irish against the Midshipmen. Quarterback Blair Kiel (above) picks up some hints from Gerry Faust and offensive coordinator Tom Lichtenberg, while Larry Moriarty (39, below) and Mark Brooks listen to line coach Jim Higgins and Lichtenberg. 


ticularly tough in the third quarter as it intercepted four passes and forced two punts on Navy's six possessions of the period. 
After Kiel was sacked in the end zone for Navy's first points against the Irish in four years, he returned to con­nect with Larry Moriarty for his sec­ond touchdown pass, an 18-yard com­pletion which gave the Irish a 20-2 ad­vantage. On Navy's next possession Duerson took away another Tarquinio pass and returned it to Navy's 12, giv­ing the offense what anybody would call good field position. A 12-yard burst by Pinkett on second down gave the Irish their final points of the after­noon. 
The Middies hit the scoreboard only late in the game when Tarquinio, who finished with 18 completions on 44 attempts for 208 yards and the half dozen interceptions, completed a 26­yard touchdown pass. "They're a real good defensive club," Tarquinio later claimed. "I had a little trouble throw­ing today, I forced the ball a couple of times too many." 
The defense, as usual, was the most discussed aspect of the Irish after the game. Middie coach Gary Tranquill, · having experienced his first game against Notre Dame, declared, "Notre Dame is a great defensive club. You have to earn everything against them offensively, and you can't turn the ball over like that to them." 
The offense, with its 27-point show­ing, was not neglected, however. Faust said, "We were concerned about our offense since we've been banged up a little the last few weeks as far as in­juries. But I thought the offense did an excellent job in the second and third periods when we had opportu­nities to put points on the board." 
The play of Kiel and Pinkett was an important part of the offense's play. Kiel finished with 18 completions in 34 attempts for 221 yards, the pair of touchdowns, and no interceptions, help­ing to set a Notre Dame team record for most attempts in a game (37) with­out an interception. "We had to have more intensity in order to knock out the mistakes which have hurt our scor­ing opportunities the last few weeks," he stated. "We definitely worked with the pass today to help us for the next few weeks," Kiel remarked, in refer­ence to the consecutive upcoming con­tests against Pitt and Penn State. 
Pinkett was coming off his third straight impressive showing, although better things would follow. He finished this game with his best totals ever, 129 yards on 27 carries, and he scored a touchdown for the third straight game. Familiarity with the offense played a large part in this increasing proficiency. "I have been gaining confidence since the Arizona game, and I'm becoming more relaxed with each game," he re­lated. 
The Irish headed off to their show­down with top-rated Pitt, with a defi­nite boost in offensive confidence. Faust concluded, "We're pleased overall, but we've still got a long way to go. We still have to improve." 
The Navy game was a step in that direction. 

Navy 0 0 2 
Notre Dame 0 13 14 0 27 
Scoring Summary 

Second Quarter Time NAND 
NO-Chris M Smith 3 pass 
from Blair Kiel 7:32 0 7 

(Mike Johnston kick) 
Drive: 80 yards in eight plays following 
Navy punt; Elapsed Time: 3:44; Big 
Play: Blair Kiel pass to Joe Howard for . 
18 yards. 
ND-Mike Johnston 40 FG :35 0 10 
Drive: 46 yards in 13 plays following 
Navy punt; Elapsed Time: 4:27; Big 
Play: Blair Kiel pass to Allen Pinkett 
for 13 yards. 
ND-Mike Johnston 48 FG :01 0 13 
Drive: 22 yards in four plays following 
Jack Shields recovery of Navy fumble; 
Elapsed Time: :27. 
Third Quarter 
NA-Safety, Blair Kiel tackled in 
end zone by Eric Rutherford 10:49 2 13 

NO-Larry Moriarty 18 pass 
from Blair Kiel 2:28 2 20 

(Mike Johnson kick) 
Drive: 47 yards in five plays following 
Mark Zavagnin interception of Navy 
pass; Elapsed Time: 1:39; Big Play: 
Allen Pinkett run for 18 yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 12 run 2:04 2 27 
(Mike Johnson kick) 
Drive: 12 yards in two plays following 
Dave Duerson interception of Navy 
pass; Elapsed Time: :13. 
Fourth Quarter 
NA-Bill Cebak 26 pass 
from Tom Tarquinio 4:06 10 27 

(Rich Clouse 2 pass Tom Tarquinio) 
Drive: 51 yards in four plays following 
Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: :23; 
Big Play: 25-yard pass interference 
penalty against Notre Dame. 
A-72,201 
Team Statistics 

ND NA First Downs 24 17 Rushing 11 3 Passing 13 11 Penalty 0 3 Rushing Attempts 48 25 Yards Rushing 186 79 Yards Lost Rushing 92 6 Net Yards Rushing 94 73 Net Yards Passing 234 199 Passes Attempted 37 44 Passes Completed 19 18 Had Intercepted 0 6 Total Offensive Plays 85 69 Total Net Yards 328 272 Average Gain Per Play 3.9 3.9 Return Yards 118 183 Fumbles: Number-Lost 3·1 1·1 Penalties: Number-Yards 7-86 5-54 Interceptions: Number-Yards 6-63 0-0 Number of Punts-Yards 8-337 7-299 Average Per Punt 42.1 43.0 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 5·55 6·52 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 1-0 7-131 
Individual Statistics Navy Rushing AU. Gain Lost Net TD Long Rich Clouse 14 39 1 38 0 7 Tom Tarquinio 4 17 0 17 0 9 Andy Skehan 3 12 0 12 0 5 Bryan Caraveo 2 11 0 11 0 8 Napoleon McCallum 2 0 5 -s 0 -5 
Passing AU. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Tom Tarquinio 44 18 6 199 1 30 Pass Receiving No. Yards TD Long Mark Stevens 4 83 0 30 Bill Cebak 4 40 1 26 Bryan Caraveo 4 26 0 10 Rich Clouse 3 23 0 13 Ken Heine 2 17 0 10 Greg Brand 1 10 0 10 
Notre Dame Rushing Au. Gain Lost Net TD Long Allen Pinkett 27 133 4 129 1 18 Rodney Morris 3 28 0 28 0 24 Larry Moriarty 5 17 0 17 0 4 ChrisM. Smith 1 4 o. 4 0 4 Lester Flemons 1 0 1 -1 0 -1 Phil Carter 1 0 1 -1 0 -1 Ken Kafcher 3 0 21 -21 0 -5 Blair Kiel 7 4 6S -61 0 2 
Passing AU. Comp. Int. Yards TD Long Blair Kiel 34 18 0 220 2 21 Ken Karcher 2 1 0 0 0 0 Jim O'Hara 1 1 0 14 0 14 
Pass Receiving No. Yards TD LongTony Hunter 7 8S 0 21 Joe Howard 3 50 0 19 Larry Moriarty 3 36 1 18 Mike Haywood 2 28 0 19 Chris Stone 1 14 0 14 Allen Pinkett 1 13 0 13 Mark Brooks 1 5 0 5 Chris M. Smith 1 3 1 3 

Pittsburgh 



Add One to the List 
Notre Dame's fired-up defense pushed Pitt quarterback Dan Marino out of the pocket all affernoon long during the Irish upset. Mark Zavagnin pursues on this occasion, while Jon Autry (38) forces Marino back inside. 
By JOHN LEWANDOWSKI 

Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps has called Notre Dame "the world's greatest underdog institution." 
So prior to Notre Dame's date with unbeaten and number-one ranked Pitts­burgh, football coach Gerry Faust de­cided to relive a little bit of that tra­dition with his '82 squad. 
Faust read down a list of fabled Irish upsets: the 7-0 shutout that snapped Oklahoma's 47-game winning streak in 1957; the 1971 Cotton Bowl triumph ending Texas' 31-game win streak; the 1973 one-point decision over previously-unbeaten Alabama in the Sugar Bowl, the 38-10 ambush of number-one Texas in the 1977 Cotton Bowl that vaulted Notre Dame to the top of the polls. 
The list rolled on -and it would include one more item before the day was through. 

History repeated itself this clear and chilly November afternoon. Before a stunned, capacity crowd of 60,162, the Fighting Irish used the big play to shock the Panthers 31-16. 
"Our kids played their hearts out today," said an ecstatic Faust. "We've had to overcome some adversity the last few weeks. We thought we had great game plans both offensively and defensively, and I thought we executed very well." 
"I don't know what to say," ex­plained first-year Pitt coach Foge Fazio. "This is the first time I've had this experience. We moved the ball well, but we couldn't put it in the end zone." 
The Panthers put points on the board early. On their first possession of the afternoon, quarterback Dan Marino orchestrated a 12-play, 44-yard drive which resulted in a 48-yard field goal by Eric Schubert. Pitt's scoring drive was highlighted by Marino passes of 20 yards to Barry Compton and 19 to Julius Dawkins. 
The second quarter opened with Pitt once again knocking on the door. Marino threw short to Dwight Collins three times on the drive and the junior flanker, who hauled in eight passes for 1 09 yards in the losing effort, picked up gains of 14, 14 and eight yards. A 12-yard pass to tight end Clint Wilson on the third play of the second quarter gave Pitt a first down on the Notre Dame four. 
On first down, Bryan Thomas swept left, but Chris Brown and Mike Larkin 
l~-­



met him at the corner resulting in a yard loss. On successive plays, Marino threw incomplete passes as the Irish applied heavy pressure. Schubert came on and booted his second field goal of the afternoon -this one from 22 yards out -to extend the Panther lead to 6-0. 
It would prove a game of big plays by Notre Dame, but that goal-line stand 2:06 into the second quarter might have been the critical series. In­stead of being down 10-0, the Irish were less than a touchdown from taking the lead. Pitt's offense rolled as it did for most of the contest, but the 60-yard, 11-play drive produced only three points. 
The Irish failed to get a first down on their next possession. But Blair Kiel pinned Pitt back on its own nine-yard line with a 49-yard punt, and the Panthers were unable to wedge out a first down. Standing in his own end zone, Greg Ganzer shanked a 23-yard punt. Joe Johnson, while attempting a fair catch at the Pitt 36, was interfered with by Darnell Stone for a personal foul that moved the ball to the 21. 
Notre Dame lost two yards in three plays, but Mike Johnston cut the Panther lead in half with 8:53 left in 
! the second quarter on a 38-yard field goal. Four minutes later, Kiel punted to Jeff Casper, who fumbled near mid­field, and Rick Naylor recovered for .Notre Dame on the Pitt 45. Casper, ironically, was subbing for return spe­cialist Tom Flynn, who suffered an ankle injury earlier in the game. On first down, Kiel lofted a 30-yard pass down the middle of the field to a streaking Larry Moriarty, who got be­hind Rick Dukovich to make a spec­tacular leaping catch at the 15. 
"I've been waiting for that all sea­son," Moriarty said of the pass that set up Notre Dame's first touchdown. "I get so excited, I can't breathe. I'm just a wild person after a play like that. I think it affects the team, too." 
"We borrowed that play from the San Diego Chargers," explained quar­terback coach Ron Hudson. "We knew that with Larry's speed we could beat their coverage for a big gainer." 
Freshman Allen Pinkett raced aro~~d left end for 11 yards on the next play. On a first-and-goal call from the five, Moriarty hulled into the end zone following the right side of the Irish line. fn 55 seconds, Notre Dame had its first lead of the afternoon at 
110-6. Pittsburgh regained the lead with 
3:42 remaining in the third quarter. Marino directed a classic 18-play drive that traversed 98 yards. The march consumed 8:42 on the clock as the 
. . I • .~ f' , 
Panthers moved mainly via the ground route against the Irish defense. Thomas darted for 3 8 yards during the drive and backfield mate Joe McCall ham­mered for 12 more. Marino, mean­while, kept the defense honest with passes of 11 yards to Collins, 14 to Dawkins and 15 to Keith Williams. On third and goal from the one, Thomas slanted right for Pitt's first and only touchdown of the day. Schubert's con­version put the Panthers out in front 13-10. 
"I was worried after that long, time­consuming, 98-yard drive," said Notre Dame linebacker Mark Zavagnin, who led the defense with 16 tackles. "We may have finally gotten a little tired on that drive. But then our offense came right back and scored." 
The Fighting Irish exploded for 21 fourth-quarter points against the highly regarded Panther defense. The quarter was· only 1: 16 old when Kiel pitched right to Phil Carter, who started what 
·looked like a sweep. But Carter pivoted and pitched back to Kiel, who lofted a 54-yard bomb to Joe Howard. Howard, who was well behind Dukovich and Troy Hill, gathered the ball in at the seven and scored untouched. Johnston added the extra point and in a matter of eight seconds Notre Dame regained a 17-13 lead it wouldn't relinquish. 
"I came up," said Dukovich about the touchdown pass. "They disguised it well. It looked like a sweep. It was so good. That's no excuse. You stay deep. It was a hell of a play." 
It was a flea-flicker play that Kiel couldn't wait-to use. "I was pretty ex­cited about it," said the Columbus, Ind., junior, who proved he, indeed, could come up with the big play. "I had to check it off a couple of earlier times because I read a blitz situation, and i would have gotten stoned. It wasn't a perfect pass, but I'm glad that ball had a little wobble on it or I might have thrown it into the end zone." 
Marino kept Pitt's hopes for an un­beaten season alive. Short tosses to Thomas and McCall out of the back­field netted 42 yards. On third-and­four from the Irish 31, Marino went for Dawkins on a deep post-pattern. Cor­nerback Chris Brown came out of no­where to tip the pass out of Dawkins' reach. A 47-yard field goal by Schu­bert with 12: 14 showing on . the clock brought Pitt to within a single point. 
One series later, the Panthers once again were driving for the lead. From the Notre Dame 33, Marino found Dawkins open over the middle. How­ever, with Mike Larkin in pursuit, Dawkins lost the handle and John Mosley recovered for the Irish at the 
24. With the fumble, the momentum 
belonged to Notre Dame. After an incomplete pass, Pinkett showed Pitt his Tony Dorsett moves by dodging five defenders and motor­ing 7 6 yards for the score. The Sterling, Va., native tried the left side of the Panther line before cutting back into the center of the field for daylight to up Notre Dame's lead to 24-16 with 
8:09 remaining. "It was a sprint-draw play on which I have the option to go out or cut across," said Pinkett, who riddled the Pitt defense for 112 yards on only 10 carries. "I saw the two guys collapsing on me, but a saw a little bubble be­tween them. I just decided to get through there as quickly as I possibly could." The Irish defense forced Pitt to punt on the next series. Notre Dame then put together one of its most impressive 
drives of the 1982 campaign to seal the Panthers' fate. 
Joe Howard raced around end for 18 yards on first down from the Irish 
35. After Pinkett picked up four more yards, Moriarty exploded into the secondary on a quick opener for 29 yards to the Pitt 14. Pinkett, who registered his second consecutive 100­yard game, capped off the six-play, 65­yard drive with a seven-yard scoring romp. Johnston's conversion finished the scoring with 4:06 left. 
The Pitt offense racked up 438 yards total offense with Marino passing for 314 yards on the day. Although the Panthers' offense managed 40 more of­fensive plays and controlled the clock for almost 15 more minutes, the Irish defense gave up only 16 points. 
"When you've got the athletes like they have and you hold Pitt under 21 points," Zavagnin said, "you've done a heckuva job. They're a great football team and they're going to get their yards. But when we had to, we sucked it up. We would bend, but we wouldn't break." 
"This is the biggest win I've ever ex­perienced in my career at Notre Dame," continued the Evergreen Park, Ill., na­tive. "Sure we beat Michigan and Ala­bama in 1980, but this is the best as far as I'm concerned." 
Senior guard Tom Thayer echoed Zavagnin's sentiments. "I'll remember this ·forever,'' said Thayer. "We've had some big wins since I've been here, like Michigan at the start of this season. But I can't even remember the scores of those games. But 31-16. I'll never forget that score." 
Faust can add the 31-16 victory over Pittsburgh to that list of upsets. Call it tradition. Call it mystique. It's Notre Dame. 
Pittsburgh 7 
Notre Dame 0 10 0 21 31 
Scoring Summary Flnt Quarter Time UP ND UP-Eric Schubert 48 FG t 4:S8 3 0 
Drive: 76 yards in 12 plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: S:Sl. 
~~:ri~~~~bert 22 FG 12:54 6 0 
Drive: 60 yards in II plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 4:43. 
NO-Mike Johnston 38 FG 8:S3 6 3 Drive: 21 yards in four plays following Pittsburgh punt; Elapsed Time: :S6. 
NO-Larry Moriarty 3 run 3:3S 6 10 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 4S yards in three plays following Pittsburgh punt; Elapsed Time: :SS; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Larry Moriarty for 30 yards. 
Third Quarter 
UP-Bryan Thomas I run 3:42 13 10 (Eric Schubert kick) Drive: 98 yards in 18 plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 8:42; Big Plays: Dan Marino passes to Julius Dawkins for 14 yards and to Keith Williams for IS yards. 
Fourth Quarter NO-Joe Howard S4 pass from 
Blair Kiel 14:36 13 17 (Mike Johnston ~ick) . Drive: S4 yards tn one play followmg Pittsburgh punt; Elapsed Time: :08. 
UP-EricSchubert48FG 12:14 16 17 Drive: 79 yards in eight plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 2:22; Big · Play: Dan Marino pass to Bryan Thomas for 22 yards. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 76 run 8:09 16 24 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 76 yards in two plays following John Mosley recovery of Pittsburgh fumble; Elapsed Time: :19. 
NO-Allen Pinkett 7 run 4:06 16 31 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 6S yards in six plays following Pittsburgh punt; Elapsed Time: 3:03; Big Play: Larry Moriarty run for 29 yards. 
A-60,162 
Team Statistics ND UP 

First Downs 10 2S Rushing 7 9 Passing 3 IS Penalty 0 I Rushing Attempts 33 46 Yards Rushing 221 147 Yards Lost Rushing 9-24 9-23 Net Yards Rushing 197 124 Net Yards Passing 126 314 Passes Attempted IS 42 Passes Completed 6 26 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Offensive Plays 48 88 Total Net Yards 323 438 Average Gain Per Play 6.7 s.o Return Yards 8S 117 Fumbles: Number-Lost 0 6-2 Penalties: Number-Yards S-36 4-30 Interceptions: Number-Yards ().0 ().0 Number of Punts-Yards 8-349 6-242 Average Per Punt 43.6 40.3 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 2-24 S-20 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 2-61 S-97 
Individual Statistics Pittsburgh 

Rushing Bryan Thomas Joe McCall  Att. 27 6  Gain Lost 100 7 19 I  Net 93 18  TD I 0  Long 14 6  
Marlon Mcintyre Dan Marino  6 7  17 11  0 IS  17 -4  0 0  s 10  
Passing Dan Marino  Att. Comp. 42 26  Int. 0  Yards 314  TD 0  Long 33  
Pass Receiving Dwight Collins Joe McCall  No. 8 4  Yards 109 69  TD 0 0  Long 33 32  
Julius Dawkins  4  47  0  19  
Bryan Thomas Marlon Mcintyre Clint Wilson  3 3 2  29 9 16  0 0 0  22 4 12  
Barry Compton Keith Williams  I I  20 IS  0 0  20 IS  
Notre Dame  
Rushing Allen Pinkett  Att. 10  Gain Lost liS 3  Net 112  TD 2  Long 76  
Larry Moriarty Joe Howard  9 I  S8 18  3 0  ss 18  I 0  28 18  
Phil Carter  6  13  3  10  0  8  
Blair Kiel  7  17  IS  2  0  7  
Passing Blair Kiel  Att. Comp. IS 6  Int. 0  Yards 126  m I  Long S4  
Pass Receiving Tony Hunter Joe Howard  No. 2 I  Yards 16 S4  TD 0 I  Long 12 S4  
Larry Moriarty · Allen Pinkett  I I  30 17  0 0  30 17  
Mike Haywood  I  9  0  9  

Penn State 

Two in a Row Won't Go 

By EDDIE WHITE 
Gerry Faust had said his team would have to play perfect, mistake-free foot­ball to defeat top-ranked Pittsburgh. And the Irish were just about flawless in their conquest of the Panthers. · 
Faust reiterated those saine feelings while preparing for Penn State -add­ing that although the Nittany Lions weren't ranked as high nationally as Pitt, they just might comprise the best team in the state of Pennsylvania. The Irish didn't figure to be able to afford any miscues against the well-coached units of veteran Penn State mentor Joe Paterno, who -after being a brides­maid for so many years -was begin­ning to get a special feeling about his 1982 club. 
"I think we have a great football team," said the bespectacled Paterno before the game. "I don't know if we're the best in the country, but it would take an excellent team to beat us." Paterno would be able to answer that question with certainty the evening of January 1, but for now it was the Irish who were looking to see what Penn State was really made of. . 
Mistakes -and a key injury ­played the leading roles in this late afternoon drama at Notre Dame Sta­dium. Before still another capacity crowd and a regional television audi­ence, the Lions roared to a 24-14 vic­tory and notched another mark on their ride toward the national title. 
Notre Dame was forced to play all but the first seven plays without vet­eran signalcaller Blair Kiel, who had injured his throwing shoulder against Pitt. Kiel started for the Irish but after six running plays, he misfired on a pass attempt and headed for the sidelines­his face etched in pain. 
"I didn't have any strength on the ball," affirmed Kiel, who did not prac­tice all week. "I couldn't hold it and I was pushing it too much with my body. It hurt, but I've played with pain before and if it was only pain I would have played. But when you can't throw the ball, you can't help your team." 
"We thought he'd ~Kiel) be ready," mentioned Faust who had backup Ken Karcher work with the first team throughout the week's practice sessions. "But he just couldn't throw and that's (injuries) part of the game. We knew after the first pass that we'd have to go with Kenny." 


Even though he had worked with the first team in drills, Karcher -a native of western Pennsylvania -felt Kiel would play. "I. still figured Blair would be in there," stated the sopho­more quarterback. "But for the sake of the team he wasn't going to stand out there when he couldn't throw. I was a little nervous, but I gave it my best shot." 
In the early going, it looked like that was all the Irish were going to need. 
When Kiel went out on the game's opening drive, the Irish were on the Lion 47-yard line. Seven plays later, on a fourth-and-one situation, Karcher lofted an eight-yard scoring strike to Chris Smith. Mike Johnston's conver­sion bolted Notre Dame to the 7-0 advantage. Despite the loss of their only experienced quarterback, the Irish appeared to be well-enough pre­pared -both physically and emotion­ally -to overcome that deficit. 
But Penn State stormed back and ­aided by two very costly second-quarter Irish mixups -took control. The mis­takes -an errant lateral and a col­lision between Karcher and freshman tailback Allen Pinkett -led to Lion fumble recoveries that set up field goals by Nick Gancitano. 
The first miscue came with the score tied at seven and the Irish on the move, working from their own 47. Pinkett had just gained 17 on a scamper, and on the next play Karcher pitched to the 
Blair Kiel: 'I didn't have any strength on the ball. I couldn't hold it and I was pushing it too much. It hurt, but I've played · with pain before and if it was only pain I would have played. But when you can't throw the ball, you can't help your team.' 
flashy tailback -or at least to the spot where he thought Pinkett was. 
Penn State inside linebacker Steve Sefter, who doubles as a wrestling champion for the Lions, pounced on the ball at the Irish 32. Three plays later, Gancitano split the uprights with a 41-yard field goal to push the Lions on top 10-7. 
"Kenny called an audible," explained Faust afterwards. "And Allen didn't hear it. Ken's voice is different than Blair's -it's softer." 
"I heard the wrong . number,". was Pinkett's explanation. "It sounded like a pass play. It was my fault." 
But Karcher wouldn't let Pinkett ac­cept all the blame. "I'm just as much at fault as anyone. But we're both young. He's (Pinkett) a freshman and I'm a sophomore. We're going to make mistakes. Some days they don't hurt as much. But today, they hurt bad." 
The second mistake came with 4:15 remaining in the half when Karcher and Pinkett collided on a handoff and Lion defensive tackle Greg Gattuso recovered at the Irish 33. Six plays later, it was again Gancitano -this time with a 29-yard boot to increase the visitors' margin to 13-7 just before halftime. 
"At that point we seemed to have taken the momentum," said Paterno. "Then came the kickoff. . . . " 
Oh yes, the kickoff. Following the field goal, which came with only 1:27 left in the half, lightning struck when Pinkett fielded Massimo Manca's boot at the seven and, aided by a superb block by special team captain John Sweeney, blasted up the right sideline for a 93-yard touchdown return. The dramatic run, which had one Penn State press box prophet looking around for George Gipp's ghost, was the first time an opponent had returned a kickoff for a score against Penn State since 1973. 

Irish junior linebacker Rick Naylor reaches in vain as Nittany Lion tailback Jon Williams turns the corner for.some of his 53 rushing yards. 
"It seemed to take forever to get to the end zone," admitted Pinkett, who helped silence the "Luv Ya Blue" Lion fans who had made the long trek on Route 80 to attend the game, and spring the Irish to a 14-13 advantage at the half. "My teammates blocked it beautifully, blocked it the way it is done on paper." Unfortunately for the Irish, Pinkett's blast marked the final points of the afternoon for Notre Dame. 
"The mistake I made there was kicking off to Pinkett," Paterno smiled afterwards. "I'm serious. We should have kicked that ball along the ground. Pinkett played a great game for them. He's been the difference in this team." 
Heading into the locker room at in­termission, Penn State players found themselves looking over their shoulders for the ghosts of Rockne, Gipp and Leahy, the ghosts they had been hear­ing about. "After Pinkett's run, I was standing there, thinking about the tra­dition and the ghosts of Notre Dame," admitted Lion linebacker Scott Rade­
cic. "It had happened so quick, maybe they were here." 
Penn State's outstanding junior quar­terback, Todd Blackledge, agreed. "Walking around here, the mystiqu·e got to me. But then I thought it over, and, hey, Penn State has great tradi­tion." 
Notre Dame's one-point margin stood for only one more quarter as Penn State, whose only loss was at Alabama, failed to reach midfield on its first three possessions of the second 
·half. With 14:15 remaining to play, 
Penn State finally began to move, 
starting from its own 20. 
Blackledge, who had been knocked out of the game in the second quarter after a strong hit by Irish end Kevin Griffith, shook off the cobwebs and began to get on track. 
"I'v~ been hit a lot this year," ad­mitted Blackledge, "but that's by far the worst hit I've taken." Griffith's hit forced the Penn State quarterback to miss only one play, but it did leave him groggy for the rest of the game. "Todd was kind of funny the whole game after that hit," said Lion back Curt Warner. "He'd get in the huddle and forget what the play was. He had these lapses. 
"He'd know the play, but then all of 
a sudden it'd leave him. We had to help 
him," added Warner. 
"You could see he was groggy," 
Paterno said. "He couldn't recognize 
some things. I kept checking with the 
doctor to make sure he was okay." 
"I was having a few problems," ad­mitted Blackledge. "I was getting plays, but I couldn't keep them straight. They signal them in from the sidelines, which gets confusing, anyway." 




But after missing on his first four at­

tempts of the second half, Blackledge 
began to click. He connected with 
Kenny Jackson, who set a school mark 
with his third straight game with over 
100 yards in receptions, for a 28-yard 
gain to the Irish 48. 
On the next play, Blackledge called a running play from a formation in which Warner lines up on the weak side. As he approached the line of scrimmage, he saw Warner was not covered and switched to a passing play. "I don't know if it was mind-reading or what," said Warner who rooms with Blackledge, "but I knew he was going to call it. Maybe we caught them by surprise." 
On a quick slant, Warner cut behind 

Irish safety Dave Duerson, grabbed 
Blackledge's toss and raced 48 yards 
for the score. "It was a great pass. The 
guy wasn't there," Warner said. 
"That pass play was called at the perfect time," confessed Duerson. "It . was perfect against the type of defense we were in." 
"By that point, I think I had my stuff together pretty much," commented Blackledge. Added Paterno, "That's when he was solid again." And so was Penn State. 
Although Paterno and Co. were un­

successful on a two-point conversion 
attempt, the Irish bumbled the ensuing 
kickoff, resulting in a first down at the 
one. On the first play Pinkett was 
pinned in the end zone for a safety 
and the visitors led 21-14 with 13:17 
remaining. 
Following the free kick, the Irish held the Nittany Lions and began a late, furious march of their own. Mov­ing from the 26, Karcher led Notre Dame to the Lion 36, where on a gutsy fake punt called by Faust, Sweeney gained 10 yards for a first down. But Karcher then misfired on three straight attempts and when Mike Johnston's 43-yard field goal attempt fell short, the Lions knew they were in the driver's scat. 
On its next possession, Penn State scaled the victory with a time-consum­ing drive to the Irish 10, where Gan­citano added a 27-yard field goal at the 4:19 mark to set the 24-14 final score. A big play on the march was a 44-yard scamper by Warner, who fin­ished with 143 rushing yards. 
After the game both coaches agreed that Penn State could be in for a very special season. "At the end of last year -when they beat Pitt and USC so decisively, I felt they were as good as any team in the country," said Faust. 
"At this time, they're better and I think they feel the same way. This could well be Penn State's year to win it all." 
Paterno commented, "I think we're playing the best ball that any Penn State team has. I think we're a very good football team. We planned to do a lot of moving on defense, and with the young quarterback (Karcher) in there, it was tough for him to handle it. 
"It was a shame Kiel didn't play. I don't want to take anything away from our players, but Kiel really seemed to be coming on lately." 
Penn State, which became only the fourth team since 1943 to emerge vic­torious on its initial visit to Notre Dame Stadium, did, too. 

Penn State 0 13 0 11 
Notre Dame 7 0 0 14 
Scoring Summary First Quarter Time PS ND NO-ChrisM. Smith 8 pass 
from Ken Karcher 7:27 0 7 (Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 76 yards in 15 plays following opening kickoff; Elapsed Time: 7:33; Big Play: Ken Karcher pass to Allen Pinkett for 10 yards. 
Second Quarter 
PS-Todd Blackledge 1 run 10:22 7 (Doug Strang kick) Drive: 59 yards in eight plays following Notre Dame loss of ball on downs; Elapsed Time: 2:45; Big Play: Todd Blackledge pass to Kenny Jackson for 16 yards. 
PS-Nick Gancitano41 FG 8:07 10 7 Drive: seven yards in three plays following Steve Sefter recovery of Notre Dame fumble; Elapsed Time: :53. 
PS-Nick Gancitano 29 FG 1:41 13 7 Drive: 21 yards in six plays following Greg Gattuso recovery of Notre Dame fumble; Elapsed Time; 2:34. 
NO-Allen Pinkett93 kickoff return 1:27 13 14 
(Mike Johnston kick) Fourth Quarter PS-Curt Warner 48 pass 
from Todd Blackledge 13:36 19 14 (pass failed) Drive: 80 yards in three plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 1 :09; Big Play: Todd Blackledge pass to Kenny Jackson for 28 yards. 
PS-Safety, Allen Pinkett tackled 13:28 21 14 in end zone by Walker Lee Ashley 
PS-Nick Gancitano 27 FG 3:11 24 14 Drive: 64 yards in eight plays following Notre Dame missed field-goal attempt; Elapsed Time: 4:19; Big Play: Curt Warner run for 44 yards. 
A-59,075 
Team StatJstlcs PS ND 

First Downs 17 18 Rushing 8 10 Passing 8 8 Penalty 1 0 Rushing Attempts 43 46 Yards Rushing 204 185 Yards Lost Rushing 11 48 Net Yards Rushing 193 137 Net Yards Passing 189 131 Passes Attempted 27 28 Passes Completed 11 9 Had Intercepted 1 0 Total Offensive Plays 70 74 Total Net Yards 382 268 Average Gain Per Play 5.5 3.5 Fumbles: Number-Lost 0-0 3-2 Penalties: Number-Yards l-5 3-13 Interceptions: Number-Yards 0-0 1-18 Number of Punts-Yards 6-216 5-199 Average Per Punt 36.0 39.8 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 3-24 3-28 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 3-44 5-164 
Individual Statistics Penn State 

Rushing  All.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Curt Warner  25  145  2  143  0  44  
Jon Williams  12  53  0  53  0  8  
Joel Coles  2  0  I  -1  0  -1  
Todd Blackledge  4  6  8  -2  1  4  
Passing  All. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Todd Blackledge  27  11  1  189  1  48  
PISS Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Kenny Jackson  6  114  0  28  
Curt Warner  3  51  1  48  
Gregg Garrity  1  16  0  16  
Jon Williams  1  8  0  8  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  All.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Allen Pinkett  19  87  17  70  0  16  
Phil Carter  13  65  0  65  0  11  
Larry Moriarty  3  12  0  12  0  6  
John Sweeney  1  10  0  10  0  10  
Mark Brooks  2  8  0  8  0  5  
Ken Karcher  8  3  31  -28  0  2  
PISSing  All. Comp.  Int.  Yards  m  Long  
Blair Kiel  I  0  0  0  0  0  
Ken Karcher  24  9  0  131  I  26  
Jim O'Hara  3  9  0  0  0  0  
PISS Receiving  No.  Yards  TD  Long  
Joe Howard  2  41  0  21  
Allen Pinkett  2  25  0  15  
Larry Moriarty  I  26  0  26  
Tony Hunter  I  13  0  13  
Mike Haywood  1  12  0  12  
Chris M. Smith  I  8  I  8  
Phil Carter  I  6  0  6  

Air Force 



Power of Positive Thinking 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 

Everyone called it an upset. But not Air Force coach Ken Hatfield. He knew this would be the year it would happen. He knew 1982 would be the season his outmanned Falcons would end 11 years of Notre Dame domina­tion. He was sure enough to predict it, without the slightest hesitation, to his former coach at Arkansas, Frank Broyles, a week before the game. 
Hatfield was scouting the Irish dur­ing their contest with Penn State when be ran into Broyles, who was doing color commentary for ABC, in the Notre Dame press box. 
"Do you think you can keep it close against Notre Dame?" Broyles asked Hatfield. 
"Coach, I think we will beat Notre Dame," Hatfield answered. Broyles "just laughed," according to Hatfield. 
But it was no joke. The Falcons en­joyed the laughter and celebration after picking off the Irish 30-17 in Colorado Springs -ending any Notre Dame dreams for a berth in the Bluebonnet Bowl. 
A crowd of 46,712, fifth largest ever at Air Force Stadium, watched the Falcon wishbone offense and spirited defense ambush a Notre Dame squad that just two weeks earlier had toppled unbeaten and top-ranked Pitt by 15 points. 
"I think I knew, the team knew, the coaching staff knew we could beat Notre Dame for the first time ever," re­lated a jubilant Hatfield. "It wasn't any wishful thinking, that maybe they'd drop the ball or something like that. They reaJly believed they could do it without it being a fluke." 
Air Force's victory, the most impos­ing in the 27-year history of the pro­gram, marked the first service academy win over the Irish since 1963-span­ning a string of 38 games. 
"The conditions were right," be con­tinued. "From day one we felt we could win this football game." 
Notre Dame's loss, its worst since a seasori-ending defeat in '81 at Miami, seemed to defy explanation by the players. 
"It wasn't a disappointment," stated tailback Phil Carter. "It was an embar­rassment. There's no explanation. We just didn't perform, and when you don't perform, you don't win. It's by far our worst performance as a team I can re­member. We came out here and we laid an egg." 
"I'm not sure I can even say what happened," linebacker Mark Zavagnin admitted honestly. "This was especially hard to take because we came into the game with· a major goal and a specific 


Irish ballcarriers found Falcon tacklers waiting everywhere they went, as Phil Carter did on this attempt. 
purpose-to get a bowl bid -and we again shifted to sophomore Ken Kar-the emotional intensity-the kind that failed to achieve it. It hurts." cher. And Hatfield figured the Irish had propelled them through monu-
You couldn't tell a whole lot by the game plan might be kept uncomplicated mental triumphs over Michigan, Miami, statistics. Air Force had just three more because of the situation. Pittsburgh, and a near-miss with Penn first downs than the Irish, and Notre "We suspected they would put in State-was lacking. Dame actually outgained its opponent about nine plays for their young quar-Reserve quarterback Jim O'Hara, in total yardage, 382-366. But the Fal-terback, try to keep it simple, and win who replaced Karcher midway between cons controlled the game from begin-on physical ability." the first half, hit the nail on the head. ning to end. They moved the ball when Having Air Force sandwiched in be-"When we played Michigan, we had they needed to. They stopped the Irish tween three gigantic games-Pitt, Penn that feeling," explained the senior walk-when they had to. State and USC~ didn't help.· on. "It was such a high, such a great 
"You have to give Air Force credit," "When you play a schedule like the feeling, that you know you're going to said Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust. one we play, it's tough to get up for go out and do it. We got that feeling "They played super football. We got every game," pointed out Faust, whose back for the Pitt game. We knew we down and just didn't have the oppor-counterpart also knew the Irish were were ready. Well, today, we didn't have tunity to get back." bound to be down. that feeling and Air Force did.· They 
The loss of quarterback Blair Kiel "There was no way Gerry Faust were high, the way we were for those for the second straight Saturday put a could have gotten those kids up this other games. They had it, and we wrench in Notre Dame's offensive week," Hatfield noted. "It was an im-didn't." schemes. With Kiel on the bench nurs-possible job. And we all knew that." And it seemed nothing the Irish did ing a shoulder bruise, the signalcalling The Irish players, as well, realized could get it back for them. The balls and the breaks refused to bounce Notre Dame's way. 

Things started out right for the home team and only got better as the game progressed. 
The tempo was established early when Air Force drove down to the Notre Dame 36 on its opening posses­sion, before being stopped by corner­back Stacey Toran's interception at the five. 
"We knew right away that we could move on them, and we just stuck it to them the rest of the way," explained Falcon fullback John Kershner, who hulled his way for 89 yards on this afternoon. 
"That's the type of team Air Force has always been," offered Zavagnin. "If you let them believe in themselves early in the game, they'll gain confidence as time goes on." 
Before battling the Falcon wishbone, Zavagnin and his supporting cast on de­fense listed third in the nation against the run. Yet the impenetrable unit which had kept the Irish in games all season couldn't find a way to untrack the Air Force attack. 
"That was the most effective wish­bone we've faced, and that includes Alabama's in 1980," remembered safety Dave Duerson. "Everything worked for them, in all aspects of their game, while none of ours worked for us." 
"The wishbone was something we hadn't seen all year," echoed Faust. 

"And they played errorless football. Plus we had some turnovers that really hurt us-and you just can't do those types of things." 
The first turnover was the spark that ignited the Falcon scoring explosion. When Irish tight end Tony Hunter coughed up the football on his own 35, Air Force went to work. Quarterback Marty Louthan scampered 30 yards on a keeper to the 10, tailback J ody Sim­mons took a pitch-out to the two, and the Falcons were up 7-0 on a Louthan plunge. 
Louthan would prove to be the big­gest thorn in Notre Dame's side. The cool Cadet amassed 115 rushing yards in 15 carries to go along with his two touchdowns. His poised performance helped the Air Force offense roll up 292 yards on the ground against an Irish contingent that had yielded a mere 79 average yards rushing the pre­vious nine games. 
Notre Dame struggled on its next series and punted. Air Force had better luck when it got the ball next, march­ing all the way to the Irish 12. On fourth and two, the Cadets opted for a 
touchdown attempt, but safety Joe Johnson made a great play to stop ball-carrier Mike Brown cold on a sweep. 
The decision to pass up the probable ) three points seemed costly later in the second quarter, when Notre Dame tackle Bob Clasby tipped a Louthan pass into Duerson's hands on the Irish 29, halting a third Falcon march. 
But Air Force didn't bat an eye when Notre Dame took over, continuing its pressure defense on the next Irish series that prompted Karcher's early trip to the sidelines. He forced a pass to a swarmed-over Hunter, allowing Greg Zolninger to grasp the ball and race to the Notre Dame 16. Two plays later, Louthan picked up both his, and his team's, second touchdown when he plunged over from the one. 
The confident field general orches­trated another second-quarter scoring drive, setting up kicker Sean Pavlich's 40-yard boot that put the Falcons up 17-0 at halftime. 
It was a deficit from which the Irish would never recover. Notre Dame, which had produced just four first downs before the break, had yet to touch enemy territory. The closest the Irish came was their own 49. 
"We never expected to be down like that at halftime," said linebacker Mike Larkin, who led the team with his 13 tackles. "We just weren't prepared for that kind of thing. It really shook our confidence." 
Could Air Force maintain its in­tensity? The answer came soon after the second-half kickoff. A regrouped Irish unit seemed to gain a little poise back when it put together its first consistent drive of the day. Freshman ballcarrier Allen Pinkett, who finished with 65 yards in 13 attempts, broke off 

Tom Thayer: 'When you play against a team that's fired up as they were today, it's tough. I'm not just making excuses. They were sky-high. You could tell that from the first play of the game. I think we have a good offense. But when you get into those third-and-one situa­tions and don't make it, it tears you apart mentally.' 
runs of seven and 14 yards. Fullback Larry Moriarty bruised for another 21. Joe Howard snared a 15-yard toss from O'Hara, and Mike Haywood grabbed a five-yard strike to the Falco~ 16. 
But Air Force rose to Its sternest challenge when it halted both Notre Dame's drive and momentum-and forced the Irish to settle for kicker Mike Johnston's 38-yard connection. 
The next series produced Louthan's best and most important, play of the gan{e, The Irish had made a dent in the scoring margin, while Air Force seemed to be losing a little of its colossal punch. 
The Falcons faced a third and two on their 42. Louthan was under orders to run an outside option. But he and center Ricard Smith noticed the Notre Dame defensive front spread out in preparation for the wishbone attack. They spotted a wide gap in the middle and thought a quarterback sneak would work. 
"It was something Ricard and I had talked about earlier in the game," Louthan explained. "They were split so wide that we talked about me just keeping the ball if we ever got in a situation where we only needed two or three yards." 
Louthan would get his two yards ­plus 53 more-as he rambled to the Notre Dame three before Stacey Toran tackled him from behind. 
Louthan had thought a quarterback sneak would work. 
"The signal to Smith was a tap. I 
stepped up and decided to try it -he 
and I were the only two who knew I 
was going to keep the ball." 
Irish tackle Bob Clasby tried to ex­
plain why the play caught the defense 
by such surprise. 
"We were in a special defense we'd 
designed for the wishbone. We were 
supposed to stuff the guards back into 
the line and then hit the fullback. So 
we hit our guys and looked for the full­
back, but by that time Louthan was 
gone." 
That romp set up another Pavlich 
field goal-this time a 42-yarder­
and made it all too apparent this 
wasn't going to be Notre Dame's day. 
O'Hara finally warmed up and tried to get the Irish back in the game, con­necting on seven straight aerials during a 92-yard scoring drive, capped by a 28-yard end zone reception by ~oriarty. Karcher completed a two-pomt con­version pass to John Sweeney. 
The Falcons answered with a 57-yard Pavlich boot, his career best, to close out their scoring spree. 
The outcome had long been decided when O'Hara hooked up on a 55-yard touchdown toss to Howard with 33 seconds remaining. His relief effort pro­duced 14-of-23 throwing for 216 yards. 
In a somber Notre Dame locker 
room, players tried desperately to ac­
count for what had happened on the 
field. 

"When you play against a team that's fired up as they were today, it's tough," noted guard Tom Thayer. "I'm not just making excuses. They were sky-high. You could tell that from the first play of the game." 
"We could feel the frustration as early as the first quarter," agreed Hun­ter. "I'm baffled. I don't know what happened. Lack of execution, I guess. They played a good game and should be commended for it." 
Besides its two costly turnovers, Notre Dame was guilty of 59 yards in penalties. 
"Those things hurt," Thayer con­tinued. "When you get a big comple­tion, those ·holding calls take away your momentum-it really plays mind games with you." 
"I think we have a good offense. I still do. But when you get into those third-and-one situations and don't make it, it tears you apart mentally." 
Hanging in the Stadium's north end zone was a sign that read, "Note to N'otre Dame-· this is OUR game." 
"They didn't use any tricks," con­cluded Zavagnin. "It was nothing but good football." 
And maybe the power of positive thinking. 
Air Force 7 10 7 16 30 
Notre Dame 0 0 3 14 17 
Scoring Summary F1rst Quarter Time AF ND AF-Marty Louthan 2 run 7:14 7 0 
(Sean Pavlich kick) Drive: 36 yards in five plays following Hugh Funk recovery of Notre Dame fumble; Elapsed Time: 1:20. 
Second Quarter 
AF-Marty Louthan 2 run 8:08 14 0 (Sean Pavlich kick) Drive: 16 yards in three plays following Greg Zolningcr interception of Notre Dame pass; Elapsed Tunc: :16. 
AF-Sean Pavlich 40 FG :00 17 0 Drive: 25 yards in five plays following Notre Dame loss of ball on downs; Elapsed Time: :35. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Mike Johnston 38 FG 9:05 17 3 Drive: 61 yards in nine plays following Air Force punt; Elapsed T1mc: 3:SS. 
AF-Jody Simmons 3 run 6:47 24 3 (Sean Pavlich kick) Drive: 80 yards in six plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: 2:18. 
~~~~~iich 42 FG 11:11 27 3 
Drive: 42 yards in 14 plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 7:16. 
NO-Larry Moriarty 28 pass from Jim O'Hara 7:08 27 11 (John Sweeney pass from Ken Karcher) . Drive: 91 yards in 10 plays _followmg Air Force kickoff; Elapsed T1me: 4:03. 
AF-Sean Pavlich 51 FG 1:22 30 11 
Drive: 32 yards in 12 plays follo~ing Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed T1me: 
5:41. 
NO-Joe Howard SS pass from Jim O'Hara (pass failed) . Drive: 80 yards in seven plays .followmg Air Force kickoff; Elapsed T1me: :49. 
A-46,712 
Team Statistics ND 

First Downs 16 Rushing 6 Passing 10 Penalty 0 Rushing Attempts 35 Yards Rushing 181 Yards Lost Rushing 36 Net Yards Rushing 145 Net Yards Passing 237 Passes Attempted 27 Passes Completed 16 Had Intercepted 1 Total Offensive Plays 62 Total Net Yards 382 Average Gain Per Play 6.2 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1 Penalties: Number-Yards 7-59 Interceptions: Number-Yards 2-0 Number of Punts-Yards S-235 Average Per Punt 47 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 1-3 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 3-63 
Individual Stathtlcs Air Foree 

Rushing  AU.  Gain Lost  Nee  
Marty Louthan  IS  120  s  115  
John Kershner  26  91  2  89  
Jody Simmons Ted Sundquist Mike Brown  12 3 s  65 12 7  2 0 0  63 12 7  
Gerry Mason Mike Hoolihan  I 1  1 0  0 I  1 -1  
Derek Foster  3  0  2  -2  
Passing Marty Louthan  AU. Comp. 9 4  Int. 2  Yards 47  
Von Cameron  1  1  0  3S  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  
Mike Kirby Jeff Huff  2 1  26 35  
Mike Brown  1  28  
Jody Simmons  1  3  
Notre Dam e  
Rushing  Au.  Gain  Lost  Nel  
Allen Pinkett  13  67  2  65  
Phil Carter  11  57  3  54  
Larry Moriarty Mark Brooks  6 1  53 4  0 0  53 4  
Ken Karcher  1  0 10  -10  
Jim O'Hara  3  0  21  -21  
Passing  AU. Comp.  Int.  Yards  
Jim O'Hara  23  14  0  216  
Ken Karcher  4  2  1  21  
Pass Receiving Mike Haywood Joe Howard  No. s 3  Yards 45 94  
Tony Hunter Allen Pinkett  3 2  33 17  
Larry Moriarty  1  28  
Van Pearcy  1  13  
John Sweeney  1  7  

:33 30 17 
AF 19 14 4 1 66 296 12 284 82 10 
s 
2 
76 366 4.8 
0 3-IS 1-39 
2-100 
so 
4-34 2-0 
TD Long 2 ss 0 8 1 13 0 7 0 4 0 1 0 -1 0 0 
m Long 0 28 0 35 
TD Long 0 14 0 3S 0 28 0 3 
TD Long 0 14 0 20 0 22 0 4 0 -10 0 -1 
TD Long 2 55 0 13 
m Long 0 14 1 ss 0 13 0 11 1 28 0 13 0 7 
usc 

It's the Same Old Song 

By JOHN HEISLER Michael Harper leaped and was re­warded. Kevin Griffith recovered and was not. Don Mason called it and was over­ruled. Charles Moffett changed it and was proven incorrect. 
John Robinson dismissed it. 
Gerry Faust didn't quite know who or what to believe. And USC -again -beat Notre Dame. 
In a football game that lasted 60 minutes, everything went all wrong for the Irish in the last of those. Notre Dame blocked and tackled and ran and threw and kicked the football better than USC did for the better part of the picture-perfect, Southern California-style afternoon. But history has taught the Irish that being ahead by a few points entering the last quarter -or even the last minute -simply 'is not good enough against the Trojans. That's been particularly proven out in the Los Angeles Coliseum where the years of frustration number 16 since Notre Dame last won there in 1966. 

Cynics suggested a Notre Dame vic­tory ·this time simply wasn't in the cards. After all, it was Robinson's fare-ye-well as Trojan head coach and it figured to be an emotional one at that. 
"Now there's no way Notre Dame is going to beat us," USC's Riki Gray said early in the week. 
Truth is, Notre Dame darn near did. 

The Irish, in fact, were winners everywhere but on the scoreboard. Notre Dame finished with the edge in first downs (24 to 18), rushing yards (191 to 54), offensive plays (83 to 64) and total yards (392 to 297). 
It wasn't supposed to be the usual glamour matchup between the two long­time rivals. For the first time since 1971, neither team was going to a bowl game. And for the first· time in 24 years, both teams were coming off losses (USC had fallen 20-19 to UCLA the previous Saturday). , 
.-But Notre Dame played the game as if it were for the national championship. The Irish, without question, won the battle on the line of scrimmage. And that's something that seldom occurs no matter who the Trojans are playing. Notre Dame's defense against the run-proved so dominant that Anthony Gibson's 41-yard run on USC's second play from scrimmage accounted for a 





Phil Carter, Notre Dame's third-best groundgainer of all time, finished his Irish career with 82 yards against the Trojans. 
43 

~ • t. ' o : ~ I '"> • • 
mammoth share of the Trojans' 54 net dominated most everything. USC did ·ground yards. USC ran the ball only manage the late field goal that made it 27 times and on eight of those attempts 10-3 at the half, but its only other ser­its efforts produced lost yardage. On ious move toward the end zone ended 12 other occasions, the gain proved in a Dave Duerson interception there two yards or less. after the Trojans had reached the Irish 
Notre Dame's first-half domination 11 following an interception of their was so complete that 47 of USC's 117 own. first-half total yards came in the final Unfortunately, some of Notre Dame's 30 seconds of the second period when later problems. on the scoreboard re-Scott Tinsley completed three passes to lated directly to its inability to take push the Trojans into field-goal range. better advantage of first-half oppor­
Gibson's long gainer early in the tunities for points. game helped prod the Trojans into Irish On the next possession following territory -but Steve Jordan was wide their initial touchdown, Kiel's throw-left on a three-point attempt after USC ing directed the Irish all the way to the reached the Notre Dame 27. The Irish Trojan 12 where Carter fumbled the then embarked on an artistic drive that ball away to Byron Darby. In his de­featured effective short passing by Blair fense, however, Carter claimed he did-Kiel (back in action again after missing n't really know what he was doing after the previous two outings) and some apparently taking some sort of hit early even more effective up-the-middle run-in the initial period. ning by Phil Carter. Native Californian "Larry Moriarty told me he thought Larry Moriarty hulled the last two something was wrong with Phil," Faust yards. later recalled. "He didn't know where 
Notre Dame did nearly the same he was, and we didn't know it." thing midway through the second pe-Kiel had one throw picked off on a riod, only this time it was freshman AI-quick toss to Mike Haywood after len Pinkett shouldering the tailback reaching the USC 31 -and another load. After a costly USC penalty for was intercepted near midfield to begin roughing Kiel on a punt, Pinkett did a Trojan possession that ended in Duer­most of the damage to set up Mike son's interception. Johnston for a 40-yard field goal. In any event, those turnovers loomed 
In between, Notre Dame's defense all the larger in the final minute when 
--'-"'".....--? .. ~~
f 
-' ~........, 

' • ' 
Notre Dame's 13-10 edge didn't hold up. 
Another workmanlike Irish drive al­lowed Johnston to kick a 47-yard field goal -his 19th of the campaign, a Notre Dame season record-on their first second-half attempt with the foot­ball. But, from there, it was mostly a passing display by Tinley and Jeff Simmons that won it for USC. 
The Trojans shunned their running game most of the second half, but the Irish still couldn't do all that much to stop them while playing zone pass de­fense much of the day. USC's first touchdown drive featured 49 aerial yards (24 on one pass to Simmons) ­plu~ eight more on a pass interference call against Chris Brown on a throw to Simmons. Harper went in from five yards away to make it 13-10. 
"We. played tentative in the first half," allowed Simmons, whose 11 re­ceptions for 149 yards enabled him to become USC's career, season and single­game reception leader. "In the second half, we opened up and relaxed." 
"I've faced quicker receivers before," said Brown of Simmons. "But when­ever he turned for the ball it was there. Their timing was perfect and ·their quarterback was throwing the ball helmet high." 
Simmons didn't catch a thing during 
-.. 


Putting pressure on USC quarterback Scott Tinsley kept Irish defenders like Eric Dorsey (left) and Kevin Griffith on the 
battle line constantly. Tinsley finished with 24 completions for 243 yards. 
USC's winning drive -but his team­mates did. The Trojans first did a de­fensive number on Notre Dame on a key series after they punted to the Notre Dame 10. Carter was stopped for no gain, Kiel threw incomplete to Tony Hunter and Carter got only two on third down. USC took over on its 49 and Tinsley went to work with 1:50 on the clock. 
Tinsley -who had beaten Notre Dame in similar circumstances in '80 after Paul McDonald had been hurt ­was on target to John Kaman a for nine, Harper for 10 and then Timmy White for 17. Another pass interference call against the Irish put the football at the one -and Harper made his leap into the end zone from there with but 48 seconds left. 
The majority of the postgame dis­cussions involved the did-he-or-didn't­he issue as far as Harper and the ball were concerned. The reactions were many and varied, but even Los Angeles area media showed no hesitation in pointing out that replays and still pho­tos clearly indicated Harper didn't have the football. 
Here's a sampling of the responses: 
• "It was a touchdown," said Rob­inson, the outgoing USC coach. "The guy (referee Moffett) signalled a touch­down and no one else can make those decisions and no one else can change it. Hell no, I don't think it takes away from it. There are an awful lot of times where there is controversy involved." 

• 
"I don't comment on that," said Faust, the Irish coach. "My players told me it was our ball on the two. A couple said he lost control of the ball at the two. That's what our players said, not what I said. I'm not getting involved in that stuff." 

• 
"I went over clean," said Harper, the USC junior tailback. "Someone hit the ball. Whether or not I was over or not I don't know. I just saw 'TD.' I was grateful. The judges said I scored a touchdown. I don't make those de­cisions." 

• 
"The two side officials said the runner was across the plane of the goal line and he lost the ball on the throw back," said Moffett, the referee, Replays clearly showed there was no "throw back." Harper landed all by himself in the end zone, without the football. 

• 
"Nobody knew where the ball was," said Griffith, the Irish defensive end. "I just saw it on the ground and fell on it. We had one referee say it was our ball, and then they had a con­ference and said it was a touchdown. But the ball was behind the offensive line. We beat them and an official takes 


it away from us. It upsets me a great deal." 
• 
"Harper was heading right for me," said Notre Dame linebacker Mike Larkin. "I saw the ball rolling off his arm and I went for it. I don't think anybody even hit him. He landed on the ground and was looking for the ball like everyone else." 

• 
An ESPN reporter suggested to Harper that one of the cable network's spare cameras showed him losing the ball before crossing the goal line. Re­sponded Harper, "Maybe your cam­era's broken." 

• 
"We ask our officials to look for leather, to see the football," said Jack Springer, head of Pacific-1 0 Conference officials. "Two officials signalled touch­down. If they were wrong, it's unfor­tunate. But officiating is '"part of the game and officiating errors are also part of the game." 

• 
"It didn't seem like a tough call 



· at the time," said Bob Zelinka, the head linesman. "It looked like an easy call. I'd bet that with the same visual evi­dence in front of me right now I'd call it the same way. As far as I'm con­cerned, he had the ball when he crossed the goal line. I was not out of position, I was not asleep" 
Moffett is the same Pac-10 official who served as the referee in the Cali­fornia-Stanford game a few weeks earlier when Cal pulled off a last-play victory on a 57 -yard, disputed kickoff return that featured five laterals through the Stanford band. 
Mason is the same Pac-10 official who served as umpire in the 1979 Rose Bowl in which USC's Charles White scored a disputed touchdown in a 17-10 win over Michigan. On that day, Mason also ruled Michigan had recovered the fumble, but he was overruled. 
Ironically, Harper's one-yard scor­ing play wasn't the one that most upset Faust as the game ended. Kiel had completed three passes in the final sec­onds, and Notre Dame stood on the USC 32 with two seconds left. Kiel fired the ball into the end zone in the neighborhood of Hunter. The ball bounced away as Hunter leaped for it along with Joe Browner and Darrel Hopper of USC. 
"It was a perfect pass," said Hunter. "It would have been a touchdown. I saw the ball coming down and the next thing I knew, I was on my back. I sat there waiting for a flag, but there was ·nothing. They took me right out of the play." 
The whole scene was reminiscent of the one in '78 at the Coliseum where Notre Dame had come back from a 24-6 deficit to lead 25-24 with 46 sec­onds to go. On second down from the USC 40, McDonald apparently fumbled the ball away to the Irish, but officials ruled an incomplete pass and the Tro­jans marched on. They kicked a field goal with two ·seconds left and USC won that one, too. 
The current Irish players were mak­ing only their first or second trip to play in the Coliseum. But it hadn't taken them long to gain a sense of the frustration that has been mirrored on Notre Dame faces for a decade and a half now. 
"If anyone had told me that we would have moved the ball that well and not won, I would have called-him a liar," said Irish center Mark Fischer. 
Former Irish assistant Joe Yonto, who has seen every Irish-Trojan clash ~ince '64, remembers walking out of the Coliseum tunnel after the '80 game. 
"I thought about how nice it would be just once to get a good feeling after we played a game here." 
The Irish are still waiting. 


usc 0 7 7 17 
Notre Dame 7 3 0 13 
Scoring Summary Flnt Quarter nme USC ND NO-Larry Moriarty 2 run 7:44 0 7 
(Mike Johnston kick) Drive: 74 yards in eight plays following missed field goal attempt by USC. Elapsed Time: 3:16; Big Play: Phil Carter run for 21 yards. 
Second Quarter 
NO-Mike Johnston 40 FG :46 0 10 Drive: S6 yards in 14 plays following Dave Duerson interception of USC pass; Elapsed Time: 6:04; Big Play: Larry Moriarty run for 16 yards. 
SC-Steve Jordan 3S FG :OS 3 10 Drive: 47 yards in five plays following Notre Dame kickoff; Elapsed Time: :2S; Big Play: Scott Tinsley pass to Jeff Simmons for 18 yards. 
Third Quarter 
NO-Mike Johnston 47 FG 8:14 3 13 Drive: 38 yards in 14 plays following USC punt; Elapsed Time: 3:44; Big Play: Blair Kiel pass to Tony Hunter for 17 yards. 
SC-Michael HarperS run I:SS 10 13 (Steve Jordan kick) Drive: 70 yards in eight plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 3:19; Big Play: Scott Tinsley pass to Jeff Simmons for 24 yards. 
Fourth Quarter 
SC-Michael Harper I run :48 17 13 (Steve Jordan kick) Drive: Sl yards in seven plays following Notre Dame punt; Elapsed Time: 1:02; Big Play: Scott Tinsley pass to Timmy White for 17 yards. 
A-16,4S9 
Team Statistics 
ND usc 

First Downs 24 18 Rushing 11 I Passing 10 IS Penalty 3 2 Rushing Attempts 47 27 Yards Rushing 199 80 Yards Lost Rushing 2·8 8·26 Net Yards Rushing 191 S4 Net Yards Passing 201 243 Passes Attempted 36 37 Passes Completed 18 24 Had Intercepted 2 I Total Offensive Plays 83 64 Total Net Yards 392 297 Average Gain Per Play 4.72 4.64 Return Yards 86 96 Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-1 I.() Penalties: Number-Yards 8-63 6-60 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1..0 2-20 Number of Punts-Yards 4-173 7-317 Average Per Punt 43.3 4S.3 Punt Returns: Number-Yards S-40 3-23 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 3-46 3-S3 
Individual Statistics 

usc  
Rushing  AU.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Anthony Gibson  12  S2  6  46  0  41  
Michael Harper  s  19  0  19  2  s  
Kennedy Pola  2  4  0  4  0  2  
Zephrini Lee  I  3  0  3  0  3  
Todd Spencer  1  1  0  I  0  I  
Scott Tinsley  6  1  19  -20  0  I  
Passing  AU. Comp.  Int.  Yards  m  Long  
Scott Tinsley  37  24  I  243  0  24  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  m  Long  
Jeff Simmons  11  149  0  24  
Timmy White  3  31  0  17  
John Kamana  3  22  0  9  
Michael Harper  2  IS  0  9  
Mark Boyer  2  IS  0  8  
Anthony Gibson  2  6  0  10  
Pat McCool  1  s  0  s  
Notre Dame  
Rushing  Au.  Gain Lost  Net  TD  Long  
Phil Carter  19  83  1  82  0  21  
Allen Pinkett  11  43  0  43  0  8  
Larry Moriarty  7  39  0  39  I  16  
Blair Kiel Joe Howard  . 7 -I  18 10  7 0  11 10  0 0  8 10  
Mark Brooks  2  6  0  6  0  4  
Passing  AU. Comp.  Int.  Yards  TD  Long  
Blair Kiel  3S  18  2  201  0  33  
Ken Karcher  1  0  0  0  0  0  
Pass Receiving  No.  Yards  m  Long  
Tony Hunter  7  91  0  29  
Mike Haywood  4  34  0  11  
Phil Carter  3  16  0  7  
Joe Howard  2  42  0  33  
Allen Pinkett  I  19  0  19  
Larry Moriarty  I  -1  0  -1  

Notes on Notre Dame 
Irish Items: Football '82 

By JOHN HEISLER 
• 
Six different Notre Dame players received some sort of All-America men­tion in 1982. Senior free safety DAVE DUERSON was a first-team pick by both the Football Writers Association of America and Football News, as well as an honorable mention choice of United Press International. Senior tight end TONY HUNTER was a first-team pick of the Newspaper Enterprise Asso­ciation and an honorable mention choice by the Associated Press. Senior linebacker MARK ZAVAGNIN was a second-team pick by Football News and a third-team choice of the Associated Press. Senior kicker MIKE JOHN­STON was a third-team choice by Football News and an honorable men­tion pick by both the Associated Press and The Sporting News. Senior offen-· sive guard TOM THAYER was an hon­orable mention pick by United Press International, and junior cornerback STACEY TORAN earned honorable mention status on The Sporting News squad. 

• 
At the December 8 football ban­quet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, DAVE DUERSON was honored as the Most Valuable Player for 1982. TOM THAYER was chosen the Outstanding Offensive Player, while MARK ZA­VAGNIN was named the Outstanding Defensive Player. All three awards were chosen by vote of the players, and the MVP award is presented annually by the Notre Dame National Monogram Club. 

• 
A pair of Indiana natives -quar­terback BLAIR KIEL and cornerback STACEY TORAN-have been elected co-captains of the ·1983 Notre Dame squad. Ironically, the two Hoosiers earned a niche in the Irish starting line­up within a game of each other as freshmen in 1980. Toran started at cornerback in the third game of that season against Michigan State because of an injury to Dave Duerson and now has started 32 straight games in the Irish secondary. Kiel led the Irish to a come-from-behind victory in that same game at Michigan State and made-his first start the following week against Miami. 

• 
MARK ZAVAGNIN received the 1982 John W. McMullan Award, 



named in memory of the former guard for the Irish from 1923-25. The award goes annually to the Notre Dame player who best exemplifies the spirit of the scholar-athlete who has contributed his skill and ability both on the field and in the classroom. Zavagnin, who merited the award on the basis of his 3.25 grade average during the spring semester is an American Studies major in the College of Arts and· Letters. Senior center MARK FISCHER received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Schol­ar-Athlete Award for 1982. An ac­counting major in the College of 'Busi­ness Administration, Fischer boasts a 
3.108 grade average on a 4.00 scale. 
• For the second consecutive season, DAVE DUERSON played more min­utes than any other Notre Dame player. His total of 351 minutes on the field in '82 was followed by STACEY TORAN (317), strong safety JOE JOHNSON · (302), MARK ZA V AGNIN (299), of­fensive tackle LARRY WILLIAMS (298), TOM TIIAYER (298); TONY HUNTER (289), offensive guard MIKE KELLEY (287), BLAIR KIEL (275) and cornerback CHRIS BROWN (271). Only 68 different Notre Dame players saw action in 1982, compared to 100 in 1981. 
e Forty-eight monograms were awarded to members of the 1982 Notre Dame football team: 
SENIORS (15)-Rod Bone, Phil Carter, Bob Clasby, Dave Duerson, Randy Ellis, Mark Fischer, Kevin Grif­fith, Tony Hunter, Mike Johnston, Larry Moriarty, Joe Rudzinski, Jack Shields, John Sweeney, Tom Thayer and 1Mark Zavagnin. 
JUNIORS (12)-Jon Autry, Chris Brown, Mansel Carter, Blair Kiel, John Mosley, Tom Murphy, Rick Naylor, Stacey Toran, Neil Maune, Mike Shiner, Daane Spielmaker and Jerry Weinle. 
SOPHOMORES (11))-Mark Brooks, Mike Gann. Mike Golic, Joe Howard, Joe Johnson, Ken Karcher, Kevin Kelly, Mike Kelley, Mike Larkin, Chris Smith and Larry Williams. 
FRESHMEN (10) -Pat Ballage, Rick DiBernardo, Greg Dingens, Eric Dorsey, Tony Furjanic, Mike Haywood, Milt Jackson, Van Pearcy, Allen Pinkett and Tim Scannell. 
Service awards went to graduating seniors Joe Batuello, Mike Boechen­John Skronski, Chris Stone, Matt West­over and Barry Young. 
stein,  Justin  Driscoll,  Mark  LeBlanc,  
Tom  Merrick,  Bob  More,  Rodney  
Morris,  Jim  O'Hara,  Dave  Schuster,  

• 
Post-season bowl participation by Irish players included appearances by TONY HUNTER (Hula Bowl), TOM TIIAYER (Hula Bowl), DAVE DUER­SON (Hula Bowl), MARK ZA VAG­NIN (East-West Shrine Game), fullback LARRY MORIARTY (Senior Bowl), tailback PHIL CARTER (Japan Bowl) and defensive end KEVIN GRIFFITH (Japan Bowl). 

• 
Notre Dame's 1982 schedule ranked as the 13th toughest in the country, according to the NCAA stand­ings in which Irish opponents compiled a .573 winning percentage (71-55-2). For the second straight year, Penn State played the toughest schedule among Division I schools-with Nittany Lion foes finishing at .646 this past fall. Other Irish opponents in the top 15 in­cluded Oregon (sixth at .621) and USC (11th at .587). In '82, the Irish faced four teams that played in bowl games -Penn State (beat Georgia in Sugar), Pittsburgh (lost to SMU in Cotton), Air Force (beat Vanderbilt in Hall of Fame) and Michigan (lost to UCLA in Rose). USC, with its 8-3 mark, likely would have qualified for an invitation had the Trojans not been on probation. Notre Dame's 1983 schedule adds Colorado (2-8-1), South Carolina (4-7) and Army (4-7)-while dropping Michigan (8-4), Arizona (6-4-1) and Oregon (2-8-1). Notre Dame will open its '83 schedule against five teams with losing records in '82 -Purdue (3-8), Michigan State (2-9), Colorado, South Carolina and 



·Army-then close it against six teams with winning records this past fall­USC (8-3), Navy (6-5), Pittsburgh (9-3), Penn State (11-1), Air Force (8-5) and Miami (7-4). 
• Here is where Notre Dame finished as a team in the NCAA statistical rank­ings: 42nd -in rushing offense (173.5 yards per game), 64th in passing offense 
(157.4), 67th in total offense (3 30.9), eighth in rushing defense (95.5 yards allowed per game), 60th in passing de­fense (188.5), 1Oth in total defense (283 .9), tied for 72nd in scoring offense 
(18.7 points per game), 22nd in scoring defense (15.8 points allowed per game), 
46 

1Oth in kickoff returns (22.1 yards per return). Individual Irish players in the NCAA rankings included DAVE DUERSON tied for fifth in intercep­tions (.64 per game), MIKE JOHN­STON eighth in field goals (1.74 per game), ALLEN PINKE'IT ninth in kickoff returns (25.3 yards per return) and BLAIR KIEL 19th in punting (42.4 yards per punt). 
• 
Notre Dame finished 22nd in the nation among Division I schools with its attendance average of a consistent 59,075 per home game. 

• 
Sophomore linebacker MIKE LARKIN was named the Associated Press Midwest Player of the Week on defense for his 12-tackle performance versus Purdue. Notre Dame received three $1,000 scholarships in the names of BLAIR KIEL, ALLEN PINKETT and TONY HUNTER for their respec­tive performances in network televised games. Kiel earned his by completing 15 of 22 passes for 141 yards against Michigan. Pinkett earned his by rushing for 70 yards and returning a kickoff 93 yards for a touchdown against Penn State. Hunter earned his by catching seven passes for 91 yards against USC. ABC televised the Michigan game na­tionally and the Penn State game on a regional basis. CBS televised the. USC game nationally. 

• 
PIDL CARTER finished his Notre Dame career ranked third on the all­time Irish lists for both rushing yards (2,409) and rushing attempts (557). Carter gained 83 yards in the '82 season finale against USC to push him past the legendary George Gipp (2,341) and leave him behind only Vagas Ferguson (3,472) and Jerome Heavens (2,682). 

• 
BLAIR KIEL completed 118 passes in '82 to rank fourth on the single-season completion chart behind only Joe Theismann in '70 (155), Joe Montana in '78 (141) and Tom Clem­ents in '74 (122). Kiel, who currently stands fifth on the career completion list (233 of 494 for 2,740 yards), needs to complete only 72 passes as a senior in '83 to become the all-time leader in that category. Currently ahead of Kiel are Terry Hanratty (304), Theismann (290), Montana (268) and Clements (265). Kiel's .0506 interception percent­age (25 of 494) currently stands third 


_ on the Irish career list behind -John Huarte (.043) and Montana (.049). 
• 
The 120 career pass receptions by TONY HUNTER left him fourth on the all-time Notre Dame receiving list behind only Tom Gatewood (157), Jim Seymour (138) and Ken MacAfee (128). Hunter's 1,897 reception yards trailed only Gatewood's 2,283 and Seymour's 2,113. 

• 
The 19 field goals kicked by MIKE JOHNSTON in '82, established a Notre 


Dame single-season record for three­pointers. He booted two in the season finale against USC to pass Harry Oliver's previous mark of 18 set in 1980. Johnston's .864 accuracy mark (19 of 22) established both season and career records for percentage. His 13 straight field goals to open the season also broke season and career marks in that category. Johnston, who was per­fect on 19 extni-point kicks, accounted for 76 total points in '82, a record for a Notre Dame kicker. 
• With two full seasons remaining Irish split end JOE HOWARD already owns the best reception average in Notre Dame history. Howard has aver­aged 21.9 yards per catch (45 for 987) over his first two seasons, topping the previous mark of 21.5 set by Kris Haines (63 for 1,353). His 18.7-yard average in '82 (28 for 524) ranked fourth best on the single-season listings. 
o DAVE DUERSON intercepted seven passes in '82, the most by an Irish player since Mike Townsend's record 10 in 1972. Duerson's 12 career intercep­tions accounted for 256 return yards, also an Irish record. His 21.3-yard aver­age on interception returns ranks fourth on the all-time list. Duerson also re­turned 103 punts in his career, more than any other player in Notre Dame history. His 869 return yards ranked second to Frank Carideo's 947 in 1928­30. 
• The 77 punts by BLAm KIEL in '82 broke his own season mark of 73 set in 1981. He also holds the career record for punts with 216. Kiel's 42.4­yard average this year ranked third on the season chart behind Joe Restic's 
43.5 figure in '75 and Brian Doherty's 
42.7 in '73. Kiel's 40.93-yard career average is the best in Notre Dame history. 

Reflections 

Remembering the Ups 
By KEVIN GRIFFITH 
It was Monday, I think, nearly 
1:00 a.m. (West Coast time) and I was on the last leg of my Japanese journey, having just participated in the Japan Bowl college all-star game. Hovering someplace over Nebraska, I felt care­free as I cruised through the sky, hav­ing finally arrived at the end of my five-year collegiate career. And as I fumbled with my impulsively-bought Japanese Sony Walkman F-2, my thoughts continuously revolved around the 1982 season, a 6-4-1 campaign filled with memorable victories and un­forgettable defeats. Thinking in retro­spect, I realized it was a season I would never forget. 
I'll remember my final season, my last as an Irish player, as a roller­coaster year, a year filled with the highest peaks and the lowest valleys. True, I had always hoped to reach the pinnacle of college football, the na­tional championship, as did my team­mates, coaches and fellow students. I even played an additional year on legs that flickered on and off in hope of leaving the game at the top. But the elusive number-one ranking never came my way, and I am now left to pay homage to the select Notre Dame play­ers of the past who achieved that dis­tinction. Yet, when I join my fellow 1982 teammates at future reunions and testimonial banquets, I will stand with pride among them. Not only did we leave our mark on the historical Notre Dame ledger, but also we were a team that was genuinely unified and a team that was a great deal of fun to be around. · 
Looking back, the Michigan game was an outright blast. "We went off," so to speak. The attention on the game was intense as we prepared to play Bo and his boys. We owed the Wolverines for the beating we took in '81, a defeat that knocked us out of the number-one ranking and harshly back into reality. And on this night under the lights, in front of a national television audience, we delivered with vengeance. Our of­fensive line completely dominated their defense, as our backs gained yards in chunks. Our defensive line harassed their quarterback right from the start, dis~upting their passing game, and en­abling us to stop the vaunted Michigan running game stone cold. After allow­ing Anthony Carter one of his classic "now-we-have-him, now-we-don't" punt returns, and watching the Wolverines pull off one of the freak plays of the year, we secured a victory so sweet that Coach Faust decided to entertain us with his somewhat-suspect dancing skill during the postgame celebration. The only drawback in beating Michigan under the lights was how quickly Sun­day morning came. 

Yet, as proud as we were after a win like the Michigan game, there were times when we hit rock bottom emo­tionally. When 1 look back on the '82 season, I try not to blot out negative slides such as Oregon and Air Force. Our tie to Oregon was felt as a loss, a sour moment that conveys the impor­tance of coming to play every Saturday regardless of the opponent's record. I'll never forget the loathing I felt, toward myself and my teammates, as I stood at the far end of our sideline and watched our offense scrambling against the clock to secure a tie against the Ducks. In my mind, Notre Dame scrambles under the gun to beat ~outhern Cal, Alabama and Michigan, or to win a bowl game, but not to tie an 0-6 team. 
The Air Force game was a different story. The Falcons simply beat us," playing errorless football with a gutsy quarterback who went beyond coach­ing, running that crazy "wishbone thing" every which way and loose. But, if we are going to come up on the short end of the score, I'd rather it be against a team like Air Force than a lot of other teams. If any team deserves the pleasure of knocking off a national power, it is the guys in razor cuts who take a rigorous academic schedule abide by rules such as walking on desig~ nated lines while going to class, and for years have been everyone's "bye week" in the schedule. As for the Southern Cal loss, orily the criminal act of a confused official forces my fingers to type 1-o-s-s instead of B-I-G W-I-:N. 
Painful losses aside, the Pitt game proved to be my proudest moment as a Notre Dame player, the ultimate ex­perience of the 1982 season. What makes the Pitt game so vividly mem­orable, other than the fact that we knocked off the number-one team from a decidedly underdog position, was that 
the entire team meshed like clockwork. The coaching staff prepared us ex­tremely well, formulating daring game­plans both offensively and defensively. Offensively, bolstered by the stabilizing return of Mark Fischer at center, we worked plays designed especially for Pitt, oftentimes keeping their nationally ranked defense off guard. Larry Moriarty had a big game, running misdirection plays against Pitt's fast-pursuing de­fenders and catching a momentum­changing second quarter pass down the very heart of the Pitt secondary. The famed "29 Special" flea-flicker play-of Kiel to Carter to Kiel to Howard to Irish hysteria-worked to wobbled per­fection and put us in the lead to stay. Though I couldn't see much of the of­fense as I rested on the bench, I'll never forget seeing the wall of Irish coaches, players, managers and trainers leaping in unison when Allen Pinkett shot be­tween two Pitt defenders and off into freshman stardom. 
Coaches Johnson, Kelly, Blache and Robertson designed an all-out defensive gameplan, employing nearly everything in our arsenal to shut down Pitt's pow­erful offensive machine. With this hold­ing-nothing-back attitude, we took on the Pitt offense, gambling and stunting at full throttle, the result being big play after big play. Looking back, I'll never forget Bob "House" Clasby beating "un­beatable" All-American Bill Fralic for a sack on Dan Marino. Or John Mosley, recovering two fumbles, one as a mem­ber of the punt team that led to a score and an even bigger one in the fourth quarter to stop a mounting Pitt drive while ·we were holding a precarious 17-16 lead. Or Mark Zavagnin, playing his Chicago hit man role again, amass­ing a game-leading 16 tackles, just two ahead of Stacey Toran who played pos­sessed against Pitt's talented receivers. 
Nor will I ~orget Mike Gann, playing in the biggest game of his young career, literally waling on Pitt's offensive line­men, and earning his stripes as a war­rior of the trenches. And Chris Brown's highlight film pass deflection that saved a sure touchdown and helped snap Marino's string of 19 . straight games with a touchdown pass. And of course, Mansel Carter, having played the last 30 seconds of the game, boldly proclaiming to my tired and battered self from the safety of the winning locker room, "Ah, that Pitt '0' line wasn't nothin'!" In­deed, and never before had I partici­pated in such a total team effort where everyone contributed to make the team work as one. 
I remember coming out of the game late in the fourth quarter, ranting and raving because I didn't want to be re­placed. Coach Faust put his arm around me while looking up at the clock, smil­ing like a madman. I looked with him and there it was: 31 seconds remaining -Notre Dame 31, Pitt 16. All of a sudden I realized we had just knocked off the number-one-ranked team in the country, and I started giggling, amaz­ingly proclaiming to no one in par­ticular, "We just beat Pitt! We just beat Pitt!" 
Amid fans and players, as I was leaving the field, I remember Coach Boulac running past me about two feet off the ground. I yelled to him, too tired to keep up with his enthusiastic pace, "Coach Boo, would you say this is a big one?" He turned around, smiling his assurance to me that it was, and we hugged each other like two five-year­aids at Christmas. 
In the end, Coach Faust authored the final chapter of the storybook scenario. Earlier in the day, during our pregame breakdown, he interrupted the meet­ings to speak to the entire squad. Stand­ing at the end of the partition sepa­rating the offense and defense, Coach Faust told the story of how Notre Dame's number-one fan, Keith Penrod, a victim of cerebral palsy and con­fined to a wheelchair, had made a secret trip to Pittsburgh to greet the team upon our arrival at Pitt Stadium. To make such an excursion took a great deal of courage and sacrifice, Coach Faust said, because Keith had to em­ploy public transportation (a Grey­hound bus and cabs) and accept the fi­nancial burden of the venture. Coach Faust suggested we would need the same kind of desire, sacrifice and cour­age that Keith showed if we were going to beat Pitt. Then he proclaimed, "When we win today, I think we should give the game ball to Keith." True to his word, as we gathered around the prophetic Faust in the locker room fol­lowing the game, Coach Faust called Keith over amid our wildly-cheering ap­proval and presented him with the Pitt game ball. 
So it was written, engraved into golden Notre Dame lore, another sugar­coated, magical day on the gridiron with the Fighting Irish. If I had had $800, I would have paid for the damage to the team buses myself. It's not too often it takes a half-hour to drive down Notre Dame Avenue while discovering just how many frenzied Notre Dame students can pile atop a Transpo bus before the roof starts to cave in. 
Kevin Griffith, a 6-3, 242-pound de­fensive end, graduated from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame last May with a de­gree in government from the College of Arts and Letters. Granted an extra year of eligibility because of a knee injury in 1980, Griffith returned to play in '82 while attending graduate government classes. He plans to begin law school next fall. 

Irish senior Kevin Griffith heads for his appointed target, as Penn State quarterback Todd Blackledge readies another aerial attempt. Griffith led Notre Dame's down linemen with 65 tackles and topped the entire squad with seven sacks. 
'83 Preview 
Wet Behind the Ears 
By JOHN HEISLER 
Youth will be served on the Notre Dame football scene in 1983. Count on it. 
Seniors certainly will play a role in Gerry Faust's third season with the Irish. Quarterback Blair Kiel and strong­side cornerback Stacey Toran -Irish co-captains for '83 -are looking for­ward to their fourth season as regulars, while veterans like linebacker Rick Naylor, defensive backs Chris Brown and John Mosley and offensive guard Neil Maune also are expected to be starters. 
But look for as many as 16 of the 22 Irish regulars next fall to be sopho­mores and juniors. That doesn't even in­clude the possibility that a freshman or two could break into the lineup. 
"I think with any football team, your seniors play an awfully big role," Faust says. "They've been around and they know what to expect, so their leader­ship is tremendously important. 
"But, even though we do have a large number of underclassmen in key spots for us, they are players with ex­perience. We'll be young, but we won't necessarily be wet behind the ears." 
On paper, the Irish will have 36 let­termen back while attempting to fill the voids left by 17 monogram-winners to graduation. Seven starters return on de­fense, while six others are back offen­sively. 
"We have holes to fill," notes Faust, "but it isn't as if graduation wiped out an entire area. We need to find a tight end, a couple of linemen both offen­sively and defensively, a linebacker and a safety. Other than that, we've got ex­perienced people returning." 
Graduation will take its fair share of familiar names off the Notre Dame roster. Missing will be multi-year stand­outs Mark Zavagnin at linebacker, Tony Hunter at tight end, Phil Carter at tail­back and Dave Duerson at free safety. Others who played key roles in recent seasons include Larry Moriarty at full­back, Kevin Griffith and Bob Clasby on the defensive line and Tom Thayer, Mark Fischer and Randy Ellis on the offensive line. 

Missing will be two of the top three ceivers (Hunter, Moriarty-and Carter), four of the top six tacklers (Zavagnin, Irish rushers from '82 (Carter and Notre . Dame's top punt returner and Griffith, Clasby and Duerson). Moriarty), three of the top five pass re-pass interception man (Duerson) and None of those holes will be easily filled. Yet Faust has provided enough playing time for rookies the past two seasons so that the underclassmen mov­ing in are hardly green. 

Kiel will direct the Irish offense as the first four-year starter at quarterback in Notre Dame football history. By just past midseason, he's destined to have completed more passes than any signal­caller in the Irish record books (he needs to complete 72 to break the rec­ord held by Terry Hanratty). Battling for the backup job will be junior-to-be Scott Grooms (he's eligible again in '83 after sitting out a year following his return from Miami of Ohio) and sopho­more Todd Lezon. Ken Karcher, who also would have figured in the quarter­back picture, transferred to Tulane fol­lowing the fall semester. 
Kiel benefitted greatly from the high­percentage passing game which evolved through the input of quarterback and receiver coach Ron Hudson. At his ab­solute best in a 15-of-22 throwing effort for 141 yards in the season-opening upset of Michigan, the Irish offensive captain hopes to make those sorts of efforts the rule rather than the excep­tion this fall. 
The Irish go two deep impressively at both the tailback and fullback slots. The familiar names to watch will be junior Greg Bell and sophomore Allen Pinkett at tailback and juniors Mark Brooks and Chris Smith at fullback. Bell, though he'll likely stay away from spring contact drills while completing recovery from a broken foot, is a proven commodity -while Pinkett ranked as the Irish rookie of the year. in '82. Brooks, always a solid runner, will benefit from increased playing. time. Smith is a fulltime runner again after opening his sophomore campaign at linebacker. 
Kiel has been blessed with the return of his top four wide receivers -junior Joe Howard and sophomores Mike Hay­wood, Milt Jackson and Van Pearcy ­to handle the split end and flanker slots. That quartet combined to catch 52 balls last fall, 28 by Howard alone. Mark Bavaro, out most of '82 with a hand injury, headlines the tight end candi­dates-though Ricky Gray isn't far behind. 
Junior Larry Williams, a standout starter in all 11 games at strong tackle a year ago, tops the list of offensive line returness. Mike Shiner returns at quick tackle, while leading guard candidates are veteran Neil Maune and sophomore Tim Scannell. Tackle Mike Kelley has been moved to center where he'll battle sophomore Tom Doerger for the posi­tion left by Mark Fischer's graduation. 
Record-setting placekicker Mike Johnston has been granted. an extra year of eligibility since he didn't re­ceive a scholarship until last August and did not compete at all as a fresh­man. Johnston will receive his degree in chemical engineering in May and will attend graduate school next fall. Sopho­more Hal Von Wyl also returns after handling Irish kickoff chores in '82 and booting four field goals of 42 yards or longer in junior varsity action. 
Kiel, who already has punted more times than any· Irish player in history, returns for his fourth season as the Notre Dame punter. His career average stands at 40.9 yards per kick. 
Plenty of seasoned hands are back on all three Irish defensive levels. 
Up front, count on junior Mike Golic to take over at end with support from two-time letterman Mansel Carter. Other stalwarts will be junior Mike Gann at flip tackle, senior Jon Autry and junior Tim Marshall at nose tackle and sophomore Greg Dingens at con­tain tackle. Sophomore Eric Dorsey can play any of the three down positions and assuredly will see his share of play­ing time somewhere on the line. Like Bell, Gann isn't expected to see heavy duty this spring while ensuring his knee is healed following November surgery for torn ligaments. Marshall didn't play at all in '82 because of a stubborn foot injury, but he's ready to go again. 
Sophomore Tony Furjanic, a spe­cialty team standout as a freshman, likely will be the new face on the line­backing corps as he inherits Mark Za­vagnin's middle line backing slot. Junior Mike Larkin, second in tackles in '82 behind Zavagnin, is back at weakside linebacker, while senior Rick Naylor re­turns on the strong side. Ample backup help is available at all three slots, led by lettermen Tom Murphy, Joe Bars and Rick DiBernardo. 
Experience will be an asset in the secondary with seniors Stacey Toran and Chris Brown heading up the con­tingent there. Junior Joe Johnson is back at strong safety, with only Dave Duerson's free safety position to be filled. Senior John Mosley and sopho­more Pat Ballage will battle for the weakside cornerback position, while Brown moves to free safety after start­ing at cornerback in '82. 
"That old saying about the third being the charm may work for us," Faust says. "We struggled a little bit that first year. Then last year, we had some great days and some average days. But we did beat some of the great teams on our schedule for the first time since I had been at Notre Dame. 
"By the enp of the year, I felt like things were really starting to fall in place. And I think we'll be that much better off .this fall with another year of experience behind all of us." 
Count on it. 
1983 Notre Dame Football National Letter-of-Intent Football Signees 
ABRAHAM, Byron, RB, 5-10, 170 Cassville, NY (Notre Dame) 
BANKS, Robert, DL, 6-5, 235 Hampton, VA (Hampton) 
BEUERLEIN, Steve, QB, 6-3, 195 Anaheim, CA (Servite) 
BOBB, James, DB, 6-1, 185 Port Arthur, TX (Thomas Jefferson) 
BUTLER, Dave, LB, 6-3, 210 Toledo, OH (St. John's) 
COLEMAN, Trey, RB, 5-10, 165 Dayton, OH (Chaminade) 
FELITSKY, Joe, QB, 6-3, 195 Allison Park, PA (Central Catholic) 
FRANCISCO, Hiawatha, RB, 5-10, 185 Cincinnati, OH (Moeller) 
FREEMAN. Tom, DL. 6-4, 220 Shawnee Mission, KS (Rockhurst) 
GRIFFIN, Mike, DL, 6-3, 235 Cleveland Heights, OH (Benedictine) 
JEFFERSON, Alonzo. WR, 5-9, 172 West Palm Beach, FL (Cardinal Newman) 
KOVALESKI, Mike, LB, 6-2, 200 New Castle, IN (New Castle) 
LANZA, Charles, OL, 6-2, 226 Germantown, TN (Christian Brothers) 
LAWRENCE, Steve, DB, 6-0, 180 Ypsilanti, MI (Ypsilanti) 
McGLOTHEN, Art, DL, 6-3, 290 Youngstown, OH (Ursuline) 
McHUGH, Tom, OL. 6-5, 225 Philadelphia, PA (Father Judge) 
MARTZ, Bob, DL, 6-8, 250 Bloomfield Hills, MI (Lahser) 
MILLER, Alvin, WR, 6-4, 220 Kirkwood, MO (Kirkwood) 
REHDER, Tom, TE, 6-7, 220 Santa Maria, CA (St. Joseph's) 
RILEY, Tom, OL, 6-5, 240 Pasadena, CA (St. Francis) 
ROGERS, Scott, DB, 6-0, 180 Carmel, IN (Carmel) 
ROKICH, Pete, OL, 6-7, 220 Magna, UT (Judge Memorial) 
SPENCE, Marv, DB, 5-11, 180 Chester, P A (Chester) 
SPRUELL, Byron, DL, 6-4, 225 Aurora, OH (Aurora) 
T ANCZOS, Dan, DL, 6-5, 220 Bethlehem, P A (Catholic) 
TAYLOR, Pernell, RB, 5-11, 185 LaPuente, CA (Bishop Amat) 
WILLIAMS, Joel, TE, 6-4, 225 Monroeville, PA (Gateway) 
WILSON, Troy, DB, 5-10, 165 Frederick, MD (Thomas Jefferson) 
'82 Notre Dame Statistics 


TEAM STATISTICS Total Offense Yards ......... Total Plays ............... Yards per Play ............  ND 3640 785 4.6  OPP 3123 760 4.1  RUSHING P. Carter.... Pinkett ..... Moriarty ....  G 11 10 10  TC 179 107 88  Yds. 715 532 520  Avg. 4.0 5.0 5.9  TD 2 5 5  Lg. 25 76 37  KICKOFF RETURNS No. Yds. Avg. Pinkett ....... 14 354 25.3 Howard ...... 5 111 22.2  TD 1 0  LG 93 30  
Yards per Game ...........  330.9  283.9  Bell ........  2  24  123  5.1  1  19  Bell ..........  3  50  16.7  0  18  
Rushing Yards ..............  1909  1050  Brooks .....  10  30  96  3.2  0  10  Ballage .......  2  51  25.5  0  37  
Attempts.................  501  414  Morris ......  6  3  28  9.3  0  24  Stone ...... ,.  2  31  15.5  0  16  
Yards per Rush ...........  3.8  2.5  Howard ....  11  2  28  14.0  0  18  P. Carter .....  1  18  18.0  0  18  
Yards per Game ...........  173.5  95.5  Sweeney ....  8  2  9  4.5  0  10  Morris .......  1  12  12.0  0  12  
Passing Yards ..............  1731  2073  Smith ......  10  1  4  4.0  0  4  Hunter .......  1  0  0.0  0  0  
Attempts ................. Completions.............. Had Intercepted ........... Comp. Percentage .........  284 149 11 . 525  346 177. 17 .512  Flemons .... Pearcy ...... O'Hara ..... Kiel ........  1 10 3 11  1 1 3 44  -1 -1.0 -11-11.0 -21 -7.0 -29 -0.7  0 0 0 1  0 0 0 12  Pearcy ....... Notre Dame .. Opponent ....  0 29 38  14 641 703  22.1 18.5  0 1 0  14 93 38  
Touchdown Passes ........  6  7  Karcher .....  9  16  -85 -5.3  0  2  
Yards per Attempt. ........  6.1  6.0  
Yards per Comp........... Yards per Game ........... Punting Yards .............. Number of Punts .......... Average Punt ............. Had Blocked ............. Punt Return Yards .......... Number of Returns ........ Average Return ........... Kickoff Return Yards ........ Number of Returns ........ Average Return ...........  11.6 157.4 3309 78 42.4 0 255 36 7.1 641 29 22.1  11.7 188.5 3135 75 41.8 1 397 43 9.2 703 38 18.5  Notre Dame 11 Opponent 11 RECEIVING G Hunter ....... 11 Howard ...... 11 Moriarty ..... 10 Haywood ..... 9 P. Carter ..... 11 Pinkett ....... 10  501 1909 414 1050 PC Yds. 42 507 28 524 18 170 13 128 12 85 9 94  3.8 2.5 Avg. 12.1 18.7 9.4 9.8 7.1 10.4  14 9 TD 0 2 2 0 0 0  76 55 LG 29 55 30 19 25 19  INTERCEPTION RETURNS No. Yds. Avg. Duerson .•.... 7 104 14.9 Zavagnin ..... 3 35 11.7 Johnson ...... 2 56 28.0 Brown ....... 2 3 1.5 Toran ........ 2 0 0.0 Spielmaker ... 1 4 4.0 Notre Dame .. 17 202 11.9 Opponent .... 11 74 6.7  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  LG 48 16 38 3 0 4 48 39  
Interception Return Yards ....  202  74  Pearcy .......  10  8  64  8.0  0  15  
Number of Interceptions ... Average Return ........... Number of Penalties .........  17 11.9 68  11 6.7 40  Brooks ....... Jackson ...... Bell ..........  10 7 2  7 3 3  43 47 20  6.1 15.7 6.7  0 0 0  13 23 7  DEFENSIVE STATS *TMTI.-Yds.  PBU  FR  BK  
Penalty Yards ............ Fumbles (Lost) ............ Yards Returned ...........  580 17(8) 0  357 25(12) 0  Smith ........ Favorite ...... Stone ........  10 3 9  2 1 1  11 17 14  5.5 17.0 14.0  2 0 0  8 17 14  Zavagnin ... Larkin ...... Toran ......  113 112 77  1-2 8-23 7-20  2 3 6  3 0 0  0 0 1  
Total First Downs ........... By Rushing ............... ByPassing ............... By Penalty ............... Third Down Conversions ..... Percentage ............... Possession Time ............  195 108 79 8 59/178 .331 348:34  181 59 105 17 54/169 .320 311:06  Sweeney ...... Notre Dame .. Opponent ....  8 11 11  1 7 149 1731 177 2073  7.0 11.6 11.7  0 6 7  7 55 79  Griffith ..... Clasby ...... Duerson .... Johnson .... Naylor...... Autry ...... Gann .......  65 65 63 55 45 44 41  6-38 3-6 1-2 6-22 2-4 . 4-7 1-1  4 2 6 2 3 2 1  1 0 0 0 2 1 1  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
Minutes per Game ......... SCORE BY QUARTERS Notre Dame 43 66 Opponent ........... 13 43 TEAM SCORING Total Points ................ Average ................. Touchdowns ............... By Rushing ............... By Passing ............... By Returns ............... By Recovery .............. Field Goals (Made-Att.) ...... Safeties .................... PAT-Kick ............... PAT-Run ............... PAT-Pass ..............  31:41 43 54 52 66 ND 206 18.7 21 14 6 1 0 19122 1 19/19 0/ 0 1/ 2  28:17 -206 -174 OPP 174 15.8 17 9 7 1 0 17124 2 15/15 0/ 0 112  SCORING GTD PAT R-PA S Johnston .. 11 0 19/19 0/0 0 Moriarty .. 10 7 0/ 0 0/0 0 Pinkett .... 10 6 0/ 0 0/0 0 P. Carter .. 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 Smith ..... 10 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 Howard ... 11 2 0/ 0 0/0 0 Kiel ....... 11 1 0/ 0 0/0 0 Bell ....... 2 1 0/ 0 0/0 0 Team ..... 11 0 0/ 0 0/0 1 Sweeney ... 8 0 0/ 0 111 0 Pearcy .... 10 0 0/ 0 0/1 0 Notre Dame 11 21 19/19 112 1 Opponent 11 17 15/15 112 2 PUNTING G No. Yds. Kiel .......... 11 77 3267 Viracola ...... 2 1 42 Notre Dame .. 11 78 3309  FG TP 19122 76 0/ 0 42 0/ 0 36 0/ 0 12 0/ 0 12. 0/ 0 12 0/ 0 6 0/ 0 6 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 0 19122 206 17/24 174 Avg. LP 42.4 60 42.0 42 42.4 60  Brown ...... Rudzinski ... Mosley ..... Dorsey ..... Furjanic .... M. Golic .... Smith ...... Weinle...... Shields ..... Spielmaker .. Hunter ..... M. Carter ... Dingens..... DiBernardo ..· Howard .... Murphy..... Bars ........ Pinkett ..... Ballage ..... Jackson..... Sweeney .... Stone ....... Bone ......': Team .......  37 28 24 24 19 15 15 9· 8 7 5 4 3 3 3 2 2 :2 1 1 1 1 1 0  2-4 1-4 0-0 3-5 0-0 1-2 0-0 1-1 a-o· 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 1-1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 1-5  8 1 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  -­ 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
Opponent  ....  11  75  3135  41.8  63  Notre Dame. 797 46-137 Opponent ... 1007 64-282  44 59  12 8  
*Includes solos and assists  
- 
PASSING Kiel ....... O'Hara .... Karcher .... Notre Dame Opponent  G No. Cmp. 11 219 118 3 27 15 9 38 16 11 284 149 11 346 177  Pet. .539 .556 .421 .525 .512  Int. Yds.TD 10 1273 3 0 230 2 1 228 1 11 1731 6 17 2073 7  PUNT RETURNS No. Duerson ...... 34 Bell .......... 1 Howard ...... 1 Notre Dame .. 36 Opponent .... 43  Yds. Avg. 245 7.2 12 12.0 -2 -2.0 255 7.1 397 9.2  TD 0 0 0 0 1  LG 23 12 0 23 72  QUARTERBACK SACKS Griffith 7-52, Clasby 6-30, Gann 5-33, Johnson 3-23, Autry 2-11, Brown 1-6, Duerson 1-6, Zavagnin 1-5, Larkin 1-5, Naylor 1-2, Team Total 28-171, Opponents 22-160  



Sep. 8-PURDUE Sep.15-Michigan State Sep. 22-COLORADO Sep.29-Missouri Oct. 5-Air Force Oct. 6-MIAMI (Florida) Oct. 19-ARMY Oct. 13-AIR FORCE Oct. 26-SOUTHERN CAL Oct. 20-SOUTH CAROLINA Nov. 2-NAVY 
Nov. 9-MISSISSIPPI Nov.16-Penn State Nov. 23-LOUISIANA STATE Nov. 30-Miami (Florida) 
Sep.13-MICHIGAN Sep.20-Michigan State Sep. 27-PURDUE Oct. 4-Aiabama Oct. 11-PITISBURGH Oct. 18-AIR FORCE Nov. 1-Navy Nov. 8-SO. METHODIST Nov.15-PENN STATE Nov. 22-Louisiana State Nov. 29-Southern Cal 
Sep.12-Michigan Sep.10-MICHIGAN Sep.19-MICHIGAN STATE Sep.17-Michigan State Sep.26-Purdue Sep.24-PURDUE Oct. 10-Pittsburgh Oct. 1-STANFORD Oct. 17-Air Force Oct. 8-Pittsburgh Oct. 24-SOUTHERN CAL Oct. 15-MIAMI (Florida) Oct. 31-NAVY Oct. 22-AIR FORCE Nov. 7-BOSTON COLLEGE Oct. 29-Navy 
Nov.14-ALABAMA Nov. 5-So. Methodist Nov.19-PENN STATE 




