

) 
1 Ql~IMIMIMIMIMIMIMIMIMIIQJ]MMJMIMJMIMIMIMIM!MIM!MJM!M!M!IMIMJMIMIWJMIM 
i. 
I 
i 
I
:>-­
~-­
Univer~'ity o/Notre Dame Football Review 

I 
I 
. j 
t: 
)· 
i 
l f 
I t 
I 
! I 
I 1 
l 
J 
1920 
~ ~tmllr&!r&I®GTillf&ltR'irr&lirtllf&!irtlij'Kfitl\ilirtllirtli®G'Kilirtllirtl®lr&ti'R11irtllt&Jt&GTI1GTil®Milt&lt&l@l@i@ltl] 1 

l  Dedication  
t l'  K. K. Rockne, Coach  Franll Coughlin, Captain  Walter Halas, Ass't.: Coach  
I  

Edward Andersou H eartle:y Anderson Norman Barr}) ]oseph Brand}) George Gipp Roger Kile:y Fredericll Larson 


Glen Carberr:y 
Paul Castner 
Daniel Coughlin 
Edward De Cree 
]ames Doole}) 
Arthur Garve:y 
Donald Grant · David H a :yes 
John M ohardt 
H'arr:y M ehre 
Lawrence Shaw 

Robert Phelan 
Maurice Smith 
~Villiam Voss 
Forrest Calion, Michael Kein. Barr}) Holton, Michael Kane, Eugene Kenned:y, Lesslie Logan, Leo Mixson, Eugene Oberst, George Pro/lop, Michael Se:yfril, William Shea, Franll Thomas, ]ames Wilcox 
Contents 
The Schedule and Conches (A Review of the Gan1es) The Varsity The Freslnnen Inter-Hall Choice Chips The Olyn1pics Our Captains Press Connnent 
1 { Tu:E .Scii:EDULE ·Itt ·Ill AND. COACiiES 
1  
l  N.D.  
14  
60  
V1  
53  
16  
12  
13  
33  
14  
229  

TWO UNDEFEATED YEARS 
1919  
Kalmnazoo  0  
:Mount Union  0  
Nebraska  9  
· \Vestern State  9  
Indiana U.  3  
\Vest Point  9  
lVIichigan Aggies  0  
·Purdue  13  
l\'Iorningsidc  6  
Total  49  


·,.--. 
I 

Thursday afternoon at East Lansing, l\'lich., Knute K. Rockne ·closed his
l,. 
third year as head coach of Notre Dmnc 
r football with a record which surpasses that of any conch in these United States. He took charge of Notre Dmne ·football in Scpte1nbcr, 1918, after acting as assist­
i. ant to Jesse Harper since Hl1L1. Since!' that thnc Notre Dmnc has lost one gmnc in three years. 
\Vi lh a handful of youngsters under 21 he buill an S. A. T. C. temn in 1918 which accmnplished the greatest .feat of that turbulent season when it lied the Great Lakes tcmn of nationally fmned stars iri a 7-7 gmne, one of the greatest ever played on Cartier field. 
N.D. 1920 39 Kalmnazoo o. 
t
41 \Vestern Stales ·o 
1
16 Nebraska 7 i 28 Valparaiso 3 I 27 Arn1y 17 
f
28 Purdue 0 i 13 ·Indiana 10 1 
I
33 Nortlnvestern 7 l
C)­
-t> l\'lichigan Aggies 0 l 
250 Total t.¥1 
I 
In 1919 he carried the temn through 
l 
an undefeated season of nin·e gmnes and I 
.1 
··I
·this year he has repeated. On Thanks­
·' 
giving day 'vhen Notre Dmnc tackled the :Michigan Aggies he won his 18th con­secutive victory. 
Rockne is a real Notre Dmncnu1n. He 
was a shir on the great elevens of 1911­
12 and 13 and was picked for All-Atneri­
can end for two seasons. It was in those 
years that he, with "Gus'·' Dorais, intro­
(Iuccd the forward pass to the cast by ·registering ovcrwlwhning victories over the Ar~ny, Penn Stale and the Carlisle Indians.· 
Jesse Harper brought Notre Dan1c out of the football woods. Rockne has given her a place in the sun. · 
\Valter H. Eckcrsall, Sports-Editor of the Chicago Tribune, writes to us con­.ccrning Coach Rockne: 
"It .has been 1ny pleasure to know Knute Rockne ever since he broke into football fmne as a nlctnbcr of an eleven of one of the preparatory schools of Chi­cago. In those days, when he never drcmned of coaching an eleven which today is rated muong the powerful of the country Knute was a keen observer.­! t was his ability to absorb condilions and to ·reason for hiinself, that has really nuule hiin the coach 'vho is rated nn1ong the leading gridiron n1cntors of the coun­try. Even in his preparatory school days there was lillie about cnd-iJlay he did not know, and when he entered Notre Dmne he was considered a superb flank­player. 
Fi11c 
,j 
:i 
THE SEASQl\T'S RE11 1E11' ·OF 1920 
"'Vhen Jesse Harper was in charge of Rockne, and has,. by virtue of his great the football situation, Rockn~ was gen~ work, fulfilled every confidence placed in erally sent away every Saturday to scout hiln. Halas has earned, and, we are gmnes. On a nu1nber of occasions I acted happy to say, l1as cmnpletely wo·n the as an oflicial in gmnes which he saw, and good 'vishes of the faculty. and the stu­in our talks after the contests I learned dent body. 
that he had a thorough inside knowledge of Notre Dmne's future opponents. In other words, he 'vas one of the best foot­ball scouts I have ever known. Since he asstuned -cmnplete charge of football, Rockne has conforn1ed to \Vestern Con­ference · rules. Notre Dmne athletic temns are respected wherever they go, and there are not a few who would like to see the institution a 1ne1nber of. the conference." 



\\TALTER HALAS, ASS'T COACH Halas cmne to Notre Dmne to-Lake over an exceedingly difficult and responsible position, subseqtfent to Dorais' departure 
CAPTAIN FRANK COUGHLIN
for the \Vest. That the young 1nenlor possesses all the necessary qualificalions Notre Dmne feels that she has· no for superiority in coachdmn has been words with which to properly speed in 
de1nonstratecl 'vith gratifying clarity dur­farewell to one who has proved hilnself ing the Inmnentol.Is season which has so truly "a Notre Dmne 1nan," Captainjust cmnc to a close. Halas, who 1nade Coughlin. As leader of Notre Dmne's an enviable nmne for hi1nself in foot­undefe~l.ted eleven of 1920 he has raised ball, ·basketball and baseball circles at the standard of captaincy which has al­the University of Illinois, "ras selling the ways been held high in Notre D~une interscholastic world afire '" i t h his · athletics and has surely approached verybrilliant successes, when .he attracted the closely . to the ideal. The coaches, the attention of local athletic authorities. faculty, the ahnnni, and.. the students of He had turned out chmnpionship outfits Notre Dmne. will all testify in unnlodi­in .all the n1ajor sports at the Smnerset fied tenns to the confidence accorded hiln (Kentucky) Central High School and the during the football season. The captain'sDavenport (Iowa) High School. As a tact, diplmnacy, good sense, and spiritresult he was nuule "aide de cmnp" to have been in· large -Ineasure responsible 
Six 
THE SEASQl\T'S 

i 
for the high n1orale of the squad through thick and thin. He has been a unai1iinous choice for AU-State and All-\Vesterri honors by critics both· friendly and tin­friendly. His. work in the one appear­ance of his n1en on an Eastern field was 

r A Review 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 39; KALAMAZOO, 0. Kalmnazoo, the first opponent of the season, was easily overwhehned by the Varsity. It was evident fron1 the very start, that they· were not equal to the task. They fought tenaciously up ·to the very last 1ninute of. play, but it was a fight against iiniwssible odds. To nlen­tion the Varsity_ n1en whose play cmne \Veil up to the expectation of the "fans" \vould be to give the whole pers.onnel of the temn. The feats of that afternoon augured well for victory in the big battles to cmne. Early ·in the· second quarter, the backs showe~l greed for yards and ~ipp, hurtling throi1gh the \Volvcr­Ine tacklers struck· a spectacular gallop for thirty yards to the second touchclown. \Vynne Inaking the fii·st. · In the second half there cmne a shower of touchdowns -by Barry, Brandy, Kasper .and l\'Io­hardt. · 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 41; \VESTERN ·STATE NORMAL, 0. 
The next visitor to Cartier field, the \Vestern N or1nal eleven, also succu1nbed to the crushing offensive and iinpregna­ble defe_nsive play of the Varsity. Except for occasionhl flashes of fairly good de­fensive work, the Norn1als .were pitifully helpless, \Vhether in their efl'ort to curb the. advances of Rockne's plungii1g aces or in their failure to 1nake an iinpr'ession on the Varsity forward wall. The final 
r 
I score, Lll to 0, \vould undoubtedly have been doubled, had it not been for heavy pen9Ities iinposed upon Notre Dan1e and the _extren1e heat. ; · 
NoTnE D.uiE, 16; NmmASKA, 7. 
Rockne's n1en underwent .their first re~1I test of the season when they Inet the temn of Nebraska at Lincoln. Cmning. frmn behind in the latter part of the gmne, they drove their \vay through to a 16-to-7 victory over the Cornhuskers, be­fore the largest cro,'nl that has ever attended a gmne in that city. The two Lemus fought evenly through the first 
RE1'1E11T. OF 1920 
such as to startle the football oracles of the East into raptures of praise· for hiin. The · undefeated · chmnpions of 1919 surely picked "a big n1an for a big job" \vhen_· they· fell upon "Little \Villie'.' Coughlin to captain the_ squad of 1920. 

of the Gatnes 
half. Gipp, Castner, and Barry, after the Notre· Dmne aerial tactics had been tenl-:­porarily frustrated, began a series of off-:­tackle crashes and flank dashes \Vhich took the ball to the Cornhuskers' two­foot line. Here the \Vesterners fought like n1achnen and held.. Sha\V spilled_ the atte1npted punt, which \Vas reco,rered by a Nebraskan behind his goal line, thus giving the Varsity two points on a safety. Hubka went over for a touchdown in the second period for ·the Cornhuskers. Brandy cut his way through ·the Red and \Vhite line for our first touchdown. In the third qunrter, . Gipp's dash for a touchdo\vn, in e·xecution of Rockne's yearly· ~'stunt," l)repa.red_:·especially for Nebraska, was disallo\;ved, because of holding. The last touchdown followed a series of counter-sldrri1ishes, Gipp going through tackle for th~ score. 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 28; v.~LPr\Ht\~sp, 3. 
,.J 1' • .. 

. A week latet~ eight Lhqtisari.d spectators cranuned into .Cartier field and saw the "Roclnnen'' lnnnble_ tlie griin. fighting temn of Valp~r~is·o. T1Ie· ~'Valps," in proud possession of a three-point lead at the end of the first period, "'ere worn tq shreds .in their bitter atten1pts to with-· stand the continual pounding of the local shock squad. Early in the .second pe'riod Rockne withdrew his reserves and soon the Valpo defensive \Vas cnnn­bling before the onsla9ghts of the Ac.es. Plung~ after plunge netted long· gains. \Vynne went over the top, followed by Gipp a few Ininutes later. Gipp found
· 

the enen1y trench again in the fourth quarter, and ".Johnny" l\'Iohardt wriggled over for the fourth touchdown .of the gmne, following Hayes' scoop of Ker-: cheval's wild delivery. 
N9TRE DAME; 27;· Anl\rY, 17. 

Eastern cities are still sounding the \Vell-dGserved praises of the "Hoosier'.~ eleven which invaded the East late -in October and, for the third consecutive 
Seven 

. l 
:( 
! 
THE SEASOJ:\T'S REVIEvV OF 1·920 
tiine, defeated the Cadets of 'Vest Point. "It was the struggle ·of a good temn against a great one," writes a prmninent Ne'v York critic. "Beaten ..though the Ar1ny -,vas by a score of 27 to 17, the glory_. .of a gallant fight against ·a too powerful foe· re1nains with 'Vest Point. Against: a n1achine capable of potniding its way for. successive 1narches of seventy­fi,'e and eighty-five yards, the Cadets went down-as aln1ost any other· eleven in the East n1ust have if it had faced the Notre Dan1e eleven that look the field today." Notre Dmne supporters at the gmne were legion, and they sa'v a Gold and Blue eleven fighting in its best nlan­ner. They saw iVIohardt and Gipp gain yard after yard around the ends _and off­tackle, and they left· tli.e plains convinced that the n1en of today are keeping up the 
:J traditions of their beloved Notre Dmne in a very efficient n1anner~ 
·I NoTnE DA~IE, 28; PunnuE, 0. 
.~ 
Long before the whistle blew for the opening of hostilities, it 'vas necessary to turn away the crowd at the gale.· 
After· the· reserves had fought the Boiler1nakers lo a stands_till for a greater part of the first h~11f~ it 'vas no surprise that the-Varsity ran rough-shod over the lads frmn down-stale, after they entered the contest just before the close of the first half. ·The score was i1o in(li­calion of the strength of the Notre Dmne 
temn. · The versatile Gipp was at his best in this conlest. His eighly yard run off tackle for a touchdown was the feature 
of the gmne, and his frequent passes to _Anderson and Kiley were spectacles to 'vatch. 
Capt. Coughlin, Hunk Anderson, Shaw and S1nilh opened great holes for 'Vynne, Barry, lVIohardt, Coughlin and Castner, who. ei~her walked gracefully through the Boilerinakers' defense or trotted 
., _around the end~, advancing the ball for good gains on every play. · 
NOTHE DA~rE, 13; INDIANA, 10: Next' cmne the gruelling battle with Indiana, 'vhich taxed all the resources of the chmnpions. . Coach Stehn, who ·has· been a close observer of the Notre Dmne systen1, particularly dtiring the last season, was all set for the fray. The Indiana stands went wild with joy 'vhen the last quarter opened with their· temn len points in the lead, hut their lead 'vas to he short-lived. On the first play of the 
fourth quarter Gipp crossed the last 
white line, and soon after added another 
point with a goal. After this there 'vas 
no stopping the "Roclnnen," and before the end of the gmne the Gold and Blue . ·warriors had 1nade another touchdown, 
which n1eant defeat for a temn that had 
been coached for two years with but one 
·eild in view-to beat Notre -Dmne. The 
cmne-back _staged by our n1en at a tiine 
when an ordinary temn 'vould have 
given up the ghost and looked forward to 
the evening banquet as the next thing on 
the progrmn, is proof sufficient of the 
wonderful n1orale and temn play they 
possess and the keen-edged brand of 
coaching they ·had received. 
. . . 

NOTRE DA~lE, 33; NOHTH,VESTEHN, 7. After the first few 1ninutes of play at Evanston, we wondered what right the Northwestern coach had to puplish a .statenu~nt before the Notre Dmne gmne .to the effect that he was having a hard tiine to keep his n1en frmn being over­confident. .Just then it da,vned upon us that it 'vas Incant for a joke-and 've 
smiled. .· 
The Varsity scoring sp~·ee began in the 

second quarter, and .the 'vhistle at·.the 
end found the locals with fourteen points 
to the good. Grausnick,. of the Purple 
squad, in the third quarter, got a'vay to a 
pretty dash which .Incant a touchdown 
and goal. GipJ), handicapped 'vilh his 
bad shoulder, entered the gmne in the 
last quarter and· was given a rousing 
ovation. Each of two passes by this 
wonder nuu1 resulted in a touchd_o,vn. 
NoTnE DA~rE, 25; iVlicniGAN AGGIES, 0. Probably the prettiest run of the sea­son 'vas n1ade in this gmne, when Dannie Coughlin received the kick-oft' frmn the Aggies, an~l rnn eighty yards through the entire Agg~e Lemn for the first' touchflown of the gmne. In the third quarter Cast­ner 1nade the "Aggies" goal line for two touchdowns, and in the final period "Eddie" Anderson galloped across the last while line, following his recovery of a blocked punt. Notre Dmne, by virtue of her reinark­able record of eighteen consecutive vic­tories with no defeat and no lie, has 'von a per1nanenl place in the athletic sun. IL lu~s not been by good luck at all, hut In virtue of sheer superiority that the great Inachine of 1920 has credited itself as being the best temn in the business this year. · 
Eiallt 
THE s·E AS 0 N' S R E 1' IE 11' o·.F 1 9 2·0 
I 
r 
I 
ED AND'ERSON 

The ends; oh boy! burn n1ah clothes! The New York Herald sa)'s, "the ends, Kiley and E. Anderson, 'vere far and away the gt~eate'st wing n1en 've have seen this year.. They were wonders on attack, bear cats on defense, and fast­·why, they could not con1e any faster on a football field and be lnunan." . ·That quotati'qn is in itself ahnost mnple conl­Jnendation for the pair, one of \vhon1, 


Eddie, is a speciinen of the perfect athlete, with n1uscles that entertwine so beautifully, and that enable the owner to flit down the field 'vith unbelievable celerity and gather in the flying pellet, all the tiine sending the opposition reel­ing to the sod. And Eddie has another year here, too. 
H~ARTLEY ANDERSON 

Heartley Anderson, whose slogan, "I'll do the best we can," was adopted as the watch-word of the entire temn, for1ned n running-Inate for Morrie Sn1ith. A veri­table Roosevelt Dmn on defensive and the proverbial "Big Bertha" on offensive, 



"Hunk" has proved a 1natch for any of his opponents during the past season. He is the type of a n1an who plays the gmne for the sheer love of playing-a 1nan who would rather fight for the Gold and Blue than eat; a nu1n "'hose happiness con1es in the glory of his temn and of his school rather than in plaudits for any personal accmnplislunent. That a n1an of this stmnp is of incalculable value to the n1orale of a temn goes without saying. Anderson started with his pal "Ojay" Larsqn in 1918 and his· sterling heart, po"'erful strength .and achnirable grit will be at the service of Notre Dmne for the last tiine in 1921. 
NORNIAN C. BARRY 

In the passing of Nonnan Barry fro1n current college athletics "'e lost a unique gridiron figure. He began his develop­nlent as an athlete n1ore than a decade ago on the Nlinin1 temn of St. Edward Hall; in his growing years he played in Carroll and Brownson Halls, then on the Freslunan temn, and finally on the repre­sentative eleven of his school. His re­nlarkable success on the football field has been attributed to his love of action and clean fight. It has been observed also that the big days and 1ninutes ·of his career were 1nade just when the gmne seen1ed lost, the fight hopeless. \Ve re­n1e1nber well how he started the rally against the Anny in 1919 when the score 
Nine 

T H E S E A S 0 l\T ' S R E 1' I E 1V · 0 F 1·9 2 0 
st<)od mninously against Rockne's n1en, weeks later kicked a field goal for a vic­and ho'v later in the smne year he tory over \Vashington and Jefferson. He brought th~ temn to life in the contest spent the 1918 season as an ariny officer against the :Michigan Aggies, who \vere but returned last season. He is the brains playing the superior lemi1 of Notre Dmne b.ehind the chmnpions and \Vhcn they are to a standstill. Finally it \Vas "Nonn" 
who, 'vith the aid of 1\'Iohardt, late in the gmne turned what scen1ed to be certain defet1t into victory in the terrific contest with the Crin1son of Indiana a few weeks 



ago. At Evanston Barry played against Northwestern the gmne of his career­before hundreds of. his "hmne-lown"::I friends, gathered frmn all parts of Chi­
:I 
.I 
cago to sec hiln in action. \Vhatcvcr the
;i 
an1ount or quality of the opposition il 
was rare indeed that Barry did not go 
forward when called upon. This typical
.,:II 
-.I 
"fighting Roclnnan" leaves the gridiron 
··; with the best wishes of every Notre Dan_1e n1an for the ulmosl success in whatever 
he 1nay undertake. ' on the field and as a "safely" on the ~lefcnse ~1e Iu:s no superior on the gri~l­Iron. I-hs 13::> pounds have filled a 1ng
.TOE BRANDY 

space in Notre Dmnc foblball annals.
The dapper 1nidgel n1ade Ogdensburg, 

N. Y., fmnous, and· piloted three Notre Dmne tcmns to victory against the Arn1y GEORGE GIPP in the annual "classics." He 'vas Eckcr­The year Nineteen Hundred and sall's All-\Vestern sclectio·n in 1917, his Twenty has been n1ost· rc1narkable in first year. 1nany ways, hut that which sounds the 
Brandy started his football career as a. superlathre note in this rcn1arkabilily is halfback and played that position until the successfulness of athletics, that is­the Artny gmne in 1917 when, with Capt. the brilliant perforn1crs and the mnazingPheh1n unavailable, he was suddenly records. Pugilisn1 has its .Tack De1npscyshifted to quarterback. He 1nade the and its Benny Leonard. Basketball h.as touchdown which spelled victory and lwo its University of Pennsylvania ·Quintet. 
Tcrt 
THE SEASON'S REVIE1~' OF 1920 
\Vrestling has· its Stecher and. Plestina. Baseball has its Babe Ruth, Cleveland chmnps, its Coveleskie, "\Vmnby" and its Sn1ith. Track has ·its Paddock, its Johnny lVIurphy, its Lomnis, its Thmnp­son, its Desch. Tlie Turf has its Man 0' \Var and its Sir Barton. Rowing has its Navy Cre\V. Swinuning has its Ethleda Bleibtrey, its Charlotte Boyle and its Nor­nlan Ross. The . Kennel has its "The Squire of Tytoi1" and its "Con1n1anche Frank." Tennis ·has its VVillimn T. Til­den Ii. And so on down through the athletic Hall of Fmne. 
Then ~1s a 1nost fitting close to the n1ost brilliantly successful of athletic seasons con1es Football. Football has had its heroes in the past-this year. Football has · its Gipp, George Gipp, half-back extra­ordinary. \Vhat Babe Ruth is to base­ball, George Gipp·is to football. Both are in a class by thetnselves. The critic \vho said "Notre Dmne has two Lemus, Gipp and ten other 1nen" spoke lnlly. Reli­


able, consistent, ziz-zaggy fast, accurate in both short and long passing, unerring and far-reaching in kicks, k~en-eyed, alert and destructive on defense-fool­ball thoroughbred fron1 the nails ·in the cleats of his shoes to the gridiron griine on the top of his hehneted head. In the foreground \Vhen his temn needed h~n1, because it needed hiin, in the background always and whenever .possible. That's George-that stmnps hiin as the really fruly great athlete that he is. Great n1en in every \valk of life act, others just talk. To not place hiin on the All-An1erican Temn is to say there will.be no All-Anler­ican Temn. Up to the tiine of going. to 
press, the sensation of the 1920 gridiron 
season, has been placed on e\rery Inythi­
cal All-An1erican and All-\Vestern temn, 
.and these temns have been picked by son1e of the n1ost noted sport \Vrilers in the country, including \Valter Cmnp. 

ROGER KILEY 

If Notre Dalne had .:not two superb athletes alongside the tackles the fmned pass work \Vould fail.· But because the detested ene1ny cannot rivet their atten­tion on two ends at once, the pass· spells glorious victories tiinc after tin1e. Last year Rodge Kiley fought hard for his letter, arid because he \Vas a true and feared tackler, in addition to his other qualilie&, he \Von out. This year he an,d Eddie dazzled the Ar~ny, Valpo; N e­braska and the others, and next year, again, \Viii the tall·Kiley be back to bal­ance the N. D. line liinits, so necessary for the proverbial N. D. forward passing success. · · 
FREDERICK LARSON 

Everyone knew that Larson· would for1n an integral part of Rockne's stone­wall line of the past season. "Ojay" had proved hiinself in ·the fall of 1918, when, in his first year of collegiate football, he won his 1nonogrmn \Vith ease. This year there were sore and .\\'cary Nebraskans.. tired and lnunbled Cadets, and weak and staggering sons of Northwestern whose broken spirits could testify to the power . of this 1nighty center far n1ore ably. than can any critic's feeble pen. IL ·n1ay be reasonable asserted that Larson is the · peer of centers in Hoosier footballdmn, 
Eleven 

:I: ii 
THE SEAS0l\7 'S 


:I 
those sport writers who chose to pick "l\'Iatunee Teck" and "lVIontague School of Nursing" stars to the contrary. Notre Dmne is fortunate in ·having Larson's services for two n1ore years during which ti1ne he n1ay be· depended upon to give substantial aid in keeping our record of the future equal to that of the glorious past. 


: ~ I 

JOHN lVIOHARDT 
\Vilh a hard schedule to look forward 

~ . I to for 1921, .John will have a responsible position to fill. Frmn present ind_ications he \viii he called upon to step Into the shoes lefl vacant by George· Gipp, .and 
Twelve 
REVIE1~' OF 1920 
this will be no s1nall job. The teain has confidence in John~s ability to deliver th~ goods, and look for. b!g things frmn h.iin during the next gridiron season, \Vlnch will be his last with the old Gold and Blue. · 

LA\VRENCE SHA\V 

Every individual seen1s to have a special branch of football in \vhich he excels. Blocking punts is· the particular feat in which Sha\v lakes delight. . The first score of ·the Nebraska gmne \vas 1nade possible by a blocked kick by this genllenuLn frmn 'Iowa, and he later duplicated the stunt at the Anny, Incli­ana, Northwestern and Michigan Aggies. Probably next year he will add another feature, that of falling on the ball after the kick is blocked. ~Shaw is a t)•pe of college nu1n very seldmn seen on any cmnpus. lVIodest, unasstuning, friendly, always a gentle1nan; we \Vish hiin un­
. hounded success in his· last year of Varsity cmnpelilioi1. 
l\'IAURICE SlVIITH 

l\'Iaurice Stnith, the 1nidg~t guard, lips the scales at only 163, yet he \Vas selected last year, by Eckersall as All.;.\Vestern. lVIovie's work in the Ar1ny gmne \Von hiin praise frmn the Eastern critics, and paved his· \vay· to a he_rlh on the All­Anlerican...Out-weighed in every gmne 25 to 60 pounds, S1nithy ahvays disposed of his n1an, and opened holes in the opposing line for Gipp, \Vyn1ie, Mohardt and Brandy.. ~t will be 1nany years be­
THE SEASON'S 

1
~ 


fore Notre Dmne produces another guard 'vith the ofl'ensive and defensive ability of Maurice S1nith. 
DAVE HAYES 

\Vanclered out to Noh~e Dmne fron1 the bleak shores of Connecticut in 1917 and proceeded to set Cartier Field afire. 'vith his football feats. He paired 'vith Tmn King as a regular end that season. The next year found ~1iin with son1e two 1nillion others in France. Hayes spent several n1on ths iii the hospital after he 
. starred in '"The Big Gmne" and he brought back a "'eakened leg 'vhich slowed hbn down a bit but did not pre­vent hiin frmn annexing a second nlono­grmn in 1919 and ~ third this season. As 
1 


REVIE1~' OF 1920 
an e_nd he is a personified reason 'vhy Notre Dmne temns a1~e called "The Fight­ing Irish." He has done a big part in "'inning two chmnpionships and in Inak­ing "South Bend. and Notre Dmne 'vorld fmned." . · 
Hayes is also a hockey st~r. He played 'vith the Notre Dmne Infonnals last sea­son and is expected to ·star this year 'vhen the gmne is introduced as a varsity sport. 

CHESTER \VYNNE 

If there be a fullback in the "rest 'vho is better than "Chet'' :\Vynne, it 'viii be· a hard task to prov~. the fact to any stu­dent at Notre Dmne. On offense Chet has no equal, and he is a power on de­fense. · In the Nebi·aska gmne he took the heart out of the huge "Cornhusker" linesn1en by his terrific plunges! 'vhich netted hiin large ·gains every thne he struck the line. \Vynne also crashed the Ar1ny line for consistent gains. His fleet­ness and powerful leg drive nuule it al­nlost iinpossibe to stop hiin. "Chet," "re are 1nost happy to say,·has one n1ore year of intercollegiate football. · 
DAN COUGHLIN 

The. entrance of "Danny" Coughlin into a gmnc this season "'as the signal for a long gain by the Gold and Blue. For Danny, one of the fastest little halfbacks turned out at any school, '\vas slippery as the proverbial eel,. and ene1ny taclilers becmne cross-eyed when he swooped 
Tllirteen 
THE SEASQl\T'S 


down the field. Although not a blood re~ ation of the fmnous captain, he is akin to Big Frank in possessing the football in­stinct, and n1o~·e than that, the fighting instinct.· His record on the Freslnnan Squad of last year "'as nothii~g short of phenmnenal, and .one coach declared that in hiln "Notre Dmne has one ·of the 1nost prmnising ·young halfbacks in the country." \Ve look for big things fron1 little Danny in his two retnaining years at Notre Dan1e. 
ARTHUR GARVEY 
Hector Garvey, the star muong the Notre Dmne Freslnnen of 1919, substi­tuted this year for Captain Frank Cough­lin, and developed into a n1ost reliable understudy. Hector· is a den1on on offense, m)d ilnpregnable on defense. He had a habit of opening huge holes in opposing lines, as if they were nuule of tissue pap.er, and it was not an infrequent sight to see hiln break through and thro"r the opposing .hacks for big losses. He was in the Indiana gmne 011ly a few Inin­utes, hut he nailed the "Hoosier" hacks in their tracks on five consecutive plays. Arthur has two n1ore years to play, and if his past perfortnances are a presage of what is to develope, his nmne \Viii go 


·down in the Notre Dmne Hall of Fmne as one of our greatest linesn1en. 
GLEN CARBERRY 
"Judge" Carberry literally Inade hitn­self felt whenever a play started in the direction of left end. \Vith his 185 pounds of high-pcnver n1uscle h e. regularly 

!' knocked the opposition· into suhtnission \vith his hard tackling. "Judge" started four gmnes with the second string, and in each instance put up a s1nashing de­f~nse that Look the fight out of the oppos­ing hacks. \Vhen,·on other occasions, he was ·substituted for Kiley he played strong football, especially on the defense. At \Vest Point he was in the gmne for only a few Ininutes, hut the Ca(Iet hack­field--·,vas Jlainfully aware of his brief presence. 

HARRY lVIEHRE 
Harry lVIehrc played center like a regu­lar \Vhenever called upon during the season, and that was quite a few tilnes. 
Fourteen 

RE.VIE11T OF 1920 
Big, heavy and fast, l\1ehre was a valua­ble asset to Rockne's section gang \Vork­ing out of Notre Dan1e. Harry cmne to Notre Dmne \Vith no previous football knowledge, but he will leave with experi­ence aplenty. . · 
Paul Castner and Phelan as under­stlHlics to Chet \Vynne rendered invalu­able se1~vice to the temn, and their ability to slide off tackle or n1ow over opposition developed \vith the. season~ 
Ed· DeGree is holding high the fmnily banner and in another year should equal if not pass the renowned "Cy" in his work for Mr. Rockne. 
Dooley and Voss \Vere always on the job. Voss' .work in the Purdue and Northwestern gmnes were proof that he is a nuu1 \vith a real kick, and Dooley will do good \Vork in the place S1nitty left for hin1 to fill. 
\Valsh .did particularly good \vork at Lansing, howling over the Aggie n1en al­nlost at will. His n1onogrmn \vas \Veil earned, and in another year he should shine with the brightest. 
\VALTER CAlVIP'S ALL-AlVIERI CAN . TEAl\'1. 

FmsT TEA:\[ End............ : ........................... Carney, Illhwis Tackle........~ ......................... Keck, Princeton GuanL.................................. Callahan, Yale Center................................Slein, Pittsbtirgh. Guard................................ \Voods, Harvard Tackle............ : ................... Scott, \Visconsin End..... : .................... Fincher, Georgia Tech. Quarter............................Lourie, Princeton Half Back. ........... Stinchcmnh, Ohio State Half Back..............~ ...........\Vay, Penn State Full Back........................ Gipp, Notre Dmne 
. In the back field, Gipp or'Notre Dmne gels the first place on ~iccount of his ver­satility and power, able as he is to punt, drop-kick, fonvard-pass, .run, tackle-in fact, do anything that any back-field n1an' could ·ever be required to do, and do it in a well-nigh superlative fashion. He drop-kicked on his freslunan temn sixty­two yards. \Vhen a n1an who has been taken o!'l' with a badly injured shoulder can go 111 on a pinch and. carry the ball over the goal line to ge·t· his temn an ab.solulely necessary· to··uchdown, sonle­tlnng of the Inan's power can \Veil be understood. · 
THE SEASON'S RE1'1E11' OF 1920 

1 

li'U.ESYMEN
I 
J 

It is the lot of all Freslunen to sn1ile, despite "the slings and arrows of out­rageous fortune" as wielded upon then1. by ruthless upperclassn1en, and surely none have s1niled n1ore truly than the n1en \vho cmnposed this year the Fresh­Bien football eleven at Notre Dmne, \vho day after day withstood the n1urderous onslaughts of the Varsity, while that po,verfulinachine \Vas n1aking ready' for the gmnes 'which achieved for it the nmne of being the best gridiron aggregation of 1920: \Vhen that .title \Vas \Von it \vas not to the Fi·eslunen that the glory canie; yet they had no sn1all part in the \vin­ning, and they \Vere gladdened to kno\v that they had helped to beat the Ar1ny, to beat N'ebraska, to beat Indiana, and the others. 
A nu1nber of ·the Varsity n1en have no\V con1pleted their alloted years of col­lege football. Their places Inust be filled next season, and fron1 the Freslunen \Viii COnle lllOSt of the Bien who lllUSf sustain Notre Dmne's football record. Fron1 muong the Inen \Vho trounced Culver 13 to 7 and the Fort \Vayne Friars· 18 to 7 will con1e the new heroes of Cartier Field. Perhaps the n1ost prmnising of then1 at present is one Lieb, full-back, who was chiefly responsible for the Cul­ver tritunph and \Vho Inade .his \vay through the Varsity line as fe\v enen1y backs of the season did. He is a four­letter n1an and was captaiii-elect of this year at SL. Thmnas College, :Minnesota. 
·According to Coach. Rockne, who kn_ows . "he has n1ore drive than any n1an ·Since the days of Eichenlaub." Another star under the wing of Coach Frank Miles last season, was Joe Bergnu1n, "Dutch III." of the fmnous fmnily of Peru, Indiana. Joe is a left half-back. His 75-yard run did Inuch to win the contest \vith the Friars, \vho are captained by '~Cy" De­gree, forn1er Notre Dmne star, and count several other players about as good as Degree. · 
And then there is. lVIagevney, quarter­back, a pass~r and a field general extra­ordinary; lVIaher, right-half, a clever qpen-field runner; Reese, quai·ter-back, who cmne frmn Chicago "U" with a repu­tation; the ends, Shaugnessy, lVIriyl, Cmn­eron, and Ray Kohin; the tackles, l\~Iur­phy, Flynn, and Du Jardin; the guards; Hogan, Berberich, an<~ Hieb; the centers, Reagan and Bolowsln-and Alfred Ar­thur ·and Kelley. .Flynn is ahnost certain Varsity Inaterial -for 1921. Bolowski, clever on defense, should figure in sev­eral line-ups; and Berberich, of South Dakota, also looks good. · 
The Freslunen, under Coach l\'liles have all been hard and faithful players, and Notre Dmne needs not fear that the loss of a nu1nber of this year's stars will preveqt her having another great temn in H)21. The Freslunen of this year, in short, prmnise that they will "carry on" in ·a way worthy of their illustrious predecessors. 
Fi{lCCll 

T H E S E A S 0 N ' S R 'E 1' I E 1~' 0 F· 1 9 2 0 

INTERHALL SEASON OF 1920 
Bro\vnson ------·..... 27 Corby --·-----·--·--·---1 Off-Can1pus ·---···-0 '\Valsh .-----·---·--···-·-0 Bro\vnson --··-·-··---7 Sorin --·-------··-··-----7 Badin -----·--·--··--·-··-0 Ofl'-Cmnpus -··-·-·-7
Brownson ____________ 1 
Carroll ·--------·-···-· 1 \Valsh ----···-----··-----0 Badin----·····--·--------0
Brownson ____________10 . Carroll ________________20 
Carroll ----~-----·--·--0 \Valsh -·-·--·-----·-----7 Brownson -----------· 1 Badin ···--------·--------7 Sorin ------·-------···---0 Sorin -·--·--·-----·----·-6 Corby ----------··--··--7 Badin ··-·----------------19
Off-Cmnpus ________ 0

Carroll --·-----··--···-0 Corby -----··---·--·--···-6 Sorin --------------·-··--6
011'-Cmnpus ________ 0 
\Valsh -~----·--·--·---~-0 
Interh~1ll football cmne up for the sea­

.son of 1920 like "Jrick" De1npsey at Toledo and went down like "Charlie" CI1aplin under a barrage of custa1~d pies. And if the analogy be further per1nitted, the ingi·edients of the fatal pies were too Inany outside g a 111 e s, frequent \vet grounds and the n1ore enticing spiciness of the varsity schedule. · 
Bro\vnsori had a well rounded, heavy, fighting tean1 that proved itself ready and capable ·at all ti1nes of taking the n1easure of its opponents. \Veight and natural ability w_ere supr)leinented by cqnsistent coaching, giving the temn the suggestion of tictive po\ver at· all_ tiines. Brow~son· and Coi·by. failed to get to:­gether for the decidiiig gmne of the sea­son and are deadlocked for first place, but ·acc~rding to the ntunber of gmnes ·"'on, the Bro\VI~son eleven is regarded by n1any as 1920 Interhall chmnpions. 
Corby. showed enough to win frmn the Off-Cmnpus and Carroll. The temn \Vas heavy and powerful and seCined to he !raveling at its fastest clip as the season ended, and had ·they n1et Brownson, n1ight have sprung a surprise. . 
0 

Badin playe<~ an interesting gmne throughout and 111 a longer season n1ight have con1e out ~n top. IL-forfeited to 
Sixteen 

Carroll and lost to Brownson in the last 1ninute of an otherwise even gmne. 
Carroll, entering the con1petition for 

the first thne, \Vas the surprise of the 
league. A light line was the \Veak spot 
of the temn, although in aggressiveness 
and courage the forward \Vall equalled 
nny in the league conference. The squad 
was ·active, colorful and always interest­
ing. · · 
Sorin had a better temn than its final · standing indicates, and \Vas ha.ndicapped 
by the usual difficulty of getting an inter­
hall temn fron1 upper clas·sn1en. Al­
though . coached by the best football 
brains in the school, it had too n1any 
"one-gmne" n1en. · 
0
The Off-Cmppus aggregation \Vas 

treated quite roughly on its first appear­
ance in interhall football and n1et with 
the natural disadvantages of "students 
residing off the cmnpus." Nevertheless· 
the Dodgers played n1ore actual gmnes 
than any other ~e·mn, ·gradually iinprov­
ing, and in the final gmne, with· Sorin. 
actually outplayed the older hall eleven. 
\Valsh \Vas the "hard luck" temn of the league, suf1'ering injuries in the early part of the season \vhich seriously affected the temn. Although they lost both gmnes played, the boys \Vere not outgmned and furnished one of the prelliest rallies of the season against CatToll after being see1ningly outclassed. 
Tlie all-star temn ";hich follows, \Vas 

chosen by the coaches of the respective 
temns. 
Seyfril of Badin was a jJopular selec-. 

tion for end. He was a deadly tackler and a clever receiver of the forward . pass. \Valsh, of Carroll, is again selected for the other end. He was a hard n1an to keep· out of a play, followed the ball . closely and his handling of passes was mnong the best in the league. Sanders. of Brownson, showed a defense excelled by no nutn in· the conference. On the offense he hit hard and fast and \\~as a 

T H E S E A S 0 l\T .' S R E 1' i E 1~1 0 F 1 9 2 0 
tough n1an to stop; a plugging linesn1an with a natural love of battle. On the 
o t h e r ·tackle, Hunsinger, of Badin, showed an entirely _·different type of ~ 0 gmne. · On the defense he \vas usually on the hollmn of his plays and entered the o~l'ense ·with a vitality seldmn displayed by a tackle. Oberst, of Brownson, was an nhnost unanilnous selection for guard;_ 
.one look. at this Kentucky giant is suffi-· cient to see the unanilnily of his selec­tion. Cleary of Sarin was certainly the spirit and ahnost the body of the Sarin · line. He· sized up a _play quickly and slopped n1ore plays back of the line than Cmnfort, · lVIargowski, Kelly, Riley, any olher Inan. He is captain of the all­Sclunitt, Harhnril1, Parker, Coach .San­star eleven. lVIixon of Corby repeals his ders. all-hall center selection. He \Vas a good passer and was one of the big reasons 
Burris, lVIelody, Oberst, Keenan, Fitz­for Corby's success. Connell of Carroll gerald, Logan, Vignos, Doriot.
has the distinction of being the only unanilnous choice on the eleven. Cmn­
fiieehan, Lightner,. Henneberry, Cook,ing to the preps as an all-\Visconsin high . 
Barry, Follet.
school back, this husky youngster tore his way through opposing lines \Vi lh a drive that re1ninded old tilners of Stan­The success of the Brownsonites is ley Cofall. On the other half, Nicholson wholly due to the coaching they received of Badin would 1nake an ideal· running frmn Cy Sanders, and the co-operation 
nu1le for Corinell. He is a good line of their prefects and the support of the piunger, a clever open field runner and a n1e1nbers of the hall. If all the. halls · 
deadly tackler. \Vright of Brownson has were kept in the condition £it all tiines been shifted ·fron1 half-hack to full-back as \Vere the Brownson hi1ll lads, and ·as 
because of his driving power and supe­wel.l and carefully coached the inter-hall riority over any regular full-back. Al­race \Vould be nuiCh closer and 1nore in-though not a brilliant player, he \Vas al­1eresting than it no\V is. ways steady, he passed well, kicked the only field goal of the ·season and played a strong secondary defense in which he excelled at breaking up passes. Sclunilt of Brownson draws. the quarter-hack nssignn1ent. Although fiery in ten1per he directed a varied ·attack \vhich pulled his temn through close spots throughout the season. He \Vas .a. consistent gainer through the line and shone in returning 
·punts _and intercepting passes. 
Position 1Vdn1e Flall 

Left end \Valsh Carroll Left tackle Sanders Brownson Left guard Cleary (C) Sarin. CORBY HALL Center lVIixon Corby 
Right Guard Oberst Bro\vnson · Kiley (Coach), E. Anderson (Coach), Right tackle Hunsinger Badin Hart, Raub, Cannady, Flynn, _\Velch, Right end Seyfrit Badin lVIcDonald, lVIixon, Flynn ( Co'ach), Lieb 
(Coach).
Quarter-back Sclunitt. Brownson Left half-hack Connell Carroll Right half.:.back Nicholson Badin J mnes, · Johnson, Chausee, Pfeifer, Full-hack· \Vright Brownson Hoar, \Villimns, Cook, fi'laher. 
Seventeen 



THE. SEAS 0 l\T' S R E VIE 1~' ·o F 1 9·2 0 
Recker, Carroll, lVIcGarty, Rohrbach; Reardon. 
' The Corby temn were runners-up in the league, winning all their gmnes. The postponed gmne between Corby and Brownson would have been a close con­test. Coached by Eddie Anderson, star ·varsity end, and Roger Kiley, his teani­Inate, the sopohmnore. temn, had they taken n1ore interest in the league, would I undoubtedly have nuule a better show­
1. ing... 
.The biggest job is to get this temn out -but after they're out, \vhether they are 


ten strong, or ten tiines ten, it's tiine for opposition to go hole huntiiig. Captain Cleary, chosen as captain of the all inter­hall temn, is fitted for the job. Fast, and. built close to the· ground, he is at all· li1nes a dangerous n1an to handle. Pfohl, Hanrahan and \Vilcox are also up in front in the inter-hall league race for in­dividual honors. Coached by "the lit­tle· General" and "Little. \Villie" the Sorii1 temn was a hard nut to crack.. 
DAY STUDENTS 

Leech, Schniitt, '1-Iannn, '\Veisch~tar,. Smnons, Murray, \Valsh, 'lVIcGrannahan, Hogan, Fr. Cunninghmn (Coach). · 
Sullivan, Dunn, Nadolney, Sharp, Donaldson, Feltes, · Visconte, Gromns, Keen. 
Due fo the deter1nined efforts of Fathe1~ Cunninghmn, rector of the Day Students,. the lads residing off the emu­BADIN HALL 
pus \Vere. represented by a \Veil coached outfit. Lacking sufficient n1aterial, and Swint, Pulte, Nicholso.n, Sheehan, :Mc­confronted with the ahnost hnpossible · Nally, Huether. task of. getting his n1e1r out for practice, Father Cunninghmn \Vorked wonders Cofley, Hunsinger, Kervan, lVIcManus, with his "boys," and at the close of the C~·owley, Landeau. · season they \Vere showing class and iin-. hibing the spirit of the other halls. In a DeGurse, Cahill, Seyfrit (Coach), year or two the Day Students will have \Vhalen, Brown, Swift. to he reckoned with in the inter-hall league. 
The Freslnnan hall always puts out a · 

scrappy bunch. This year \Vas no ex­SORIN .HALL ception. Seyfrit, varsity candidate, coached his temn \veil, winning fron1
Brandy (Coach), Hanrahan, Owens, 

s~veral s·~rong outside temns, and bat­
Prokop, Coughlin (Coach), Huether, 
thug hard in the inter-hall league.
Cleary, Fisher, \Vilcox. 
Huether, star end for the first year Inen, was al~vays in the gmne, and was goodDettling, Schwartz, Blasius, Pfohl. 
for a victory over the stroncr Mishawaka
b . 

Eighteen 

j 
~ 
THE :SEASO"f\T'S REl'IE11' OF 1920 
temn, scooping up a pass, and n1aking ·the "rinning tally in the wee n1on1cnts · of the contest. The tcmn as a whole was 
8 "'ell-coached scrappy bunch. · 
\VALSH ·HALL 
Suffering fro·1~1 injuries in the very be­

ginning of the season, the gold coasters 
"'ere at the outset on the defensive. 
Generally represented by a strong 
eleven, this year the \Valshites did not 
show up. to their usual forn1. They "'ere 
not 'vithout their. stars, however. John 
Cavanaugh, playing his first year of foot­
ball, showed wonderful defensive "'ork, 
and should develope into a. star in sev­.eral Inore seasons. 

CARROLL HALL 

\Valsh, Stanhope, _:Martin, Fr. Gassen­.~nnith, Ternes, Randall, O'Connell,. Con-· nell, Brenn~1n, Conic)~ (Coach). 
LelVIont," Aviles, lVIcGivern, DcCorps (Capt.}, Riglcy, Berra. 
Bltun, Raf-l'erty, Johnson. 
This is the first year. Carroll Hall has ·been represented· in the jnter-hall fra­cas, and if present strength is an indica­
lion in a fe"' years the "prep" temn :will be one of the strongest in the league. Captained by DeCorps, the flashy quar­ter, the temn was never beaten until the last whistle finished its echo. Berra, Aviles,. \Valsh and· O'Connell are 1nen who were taught their football· at Notre Dmne,. and these kind never give up. Connell was unaniinous choice for the all-interhall temn, and his "'ork for the · prep temn was of the highest quality. 

THE lVIINil\'iS 

"\Vc raise our own." Look at this group of sturdy young athletes, and you will find additional reason for the ·suc­cess· of the Notre Dmne Varsity. They are trained froni the lVIinhn Deparhnent to do everything that a Varsity n1an does, frmn kicking and passing to of-f-tackle plays and cross-bucks. To watch a lVI~niin gmne (they are cluunpions ·of their· class in this vicinity) is to sec a Varsity contest in Ininiature. 
Norinan Barry, '20 stellar half-back on the Gold and Blue·eleven, "'as taught the rudiincnts of running, dodging and "fighting" in the Notre Daine Grannnar · School; he is the ideal type of Varsity 
llUln. . . 
Long live the l\'liniins. 
:\'ineleen 


T·H.E SEASOJ.l,S .REYI-E1V ·OF 1_..920 

©OO®TI@~ .··_~)]]ll@&3 

I LOVE GEORGE GIPP · "Do you love n1e," he said, as he played with a strand of dark hair that had skirted the end of her hair-net? ."No;" she re!Jlied, ringing her hands · like a fire bell, and turning her head de­liberately away fro~n hiln, "I love George Gipp." "But you can't love George Gipp," he retaliated," "because yot~ have never seen hiln. He n1ay be a rough, uncouth fel­lo\v \vith bow legs and surely you couldn't love a man like that." "I love George Gipp," she said, as the engii1e of her being, her heart, turned over again and a sigh escaped frmn her lips. "Didn't· the papers say he flashed brilliancy; that he was the essence of versatility; that he Inoved \vith the grace 'of an antelope-didn't it? . "Yes, dear, it said all that, and that sin1ply referred to football. Off the field he Inay be ungainly and savage looking. He Inay chew tobacco, swear and carry sulphur nlatches. You know nle, dear, and you kno\V I love you n1ore than all the alfalfa in the world.': · · "I love George Gipp," she blubbered . out again, as both eyes flowed like broken rain pipes. "I·love ·hiJn because he 's1nashed throug~1 ~enter' and 'lore a line to shreds' and 'galloped' and . 'zig­zagged,' and 'jmnnl.ed' and 'criss"':'crossed' and 'hurled' 'n everything." "But you've never seen hiln, .deary, and 
I 
you just· can't love a lllan you've never. seen;" suppose he turned up here to~nor­row and you found hiln to be ri red­
I 
I 
he a d e d, freckled-faced son-of-a-sap­sucker. You'd faint when you looked at
I.I 
hiln-I kno\v you \Vould." "I love George Gipp,'' she still per­sisted as her lmnps geysered forth an­other torrent of \Vater and her clothes hegan to ·shrink. 
Twenty 
I 
The youth left her and.hurriecl toward the lake \vith red cusses in his heart for George Gipp, \yhmn he considered an All-An1erican hea1~t bi·eaker. · 
T. E~ B. 
·OUR ALPHABET 

A is for Anderson, Hartley and Ed Had they opponents? ·\Vhy spe~k of the dead? Ar1ny cried out e'ei· h~r temn-Inates had 
sunk · \Vhen you go after Ed \Vatch ·out for 
Hunk. · · 

B is for Brandy, a bantmn, that's all­Lisping in niunbers and passing the ball,· Folks call hiln three star, I guess you 
. know why, . · His stellar work. opens Inany an eye. C is for Coughlin, our captain-'nuff 
said, . . . He has the build and the drive and the 
·.head; If you are skeptical con1e out smne day \Vhen he's at practice and stand in ·his · 
way. Gis for Georgie \vho kno\vs no restraint, \Vhose a Inan? He's a n1an-dmnnedif­
. heaint, Half-back and .lin.e plunger, punter su­
preine;. · · Arn1y thought Gipp, by hhnself, \Vas a 
temn. ·. · . K is for Kiley, his \Vork has.been rare; Roger pulls passed right out of the ·air, 
.He's a real bear, ·on \Vhon1 Rock can· depend, · Many a nl.an ha~ died skirting hi~ end. L is for Larson. th~ pivotal nian,. Lately the idol of n1any a fan; Shoulders of concrete and 1nuscles of 
stone, · . If you love e·arthly life leave hhn alone. M is for lVIohardt, the. fleet.:.footed one, How. he :can travel-that·son-of-a-gun! Give· hhn the pigskin, the rest is a cinch­Leave it to John \vhen the temn's in a pinch. N is for Nor1nie, you've probably he~rd People ~ailed ·bear cats-but Barry's a 
. bird. · . Players on oth~r temns give :UP the race 
,rl
-
THE SEASON'S REVJE·1~1 OF 1920 
\Vhen they see Nortn 1nakjng yardage through space. · P is for Paul, his intelligent toe Puts.griln despair in the lines of the foe. Straight through the line 1ike a shot frmn a gun-Castner is off for a twenty-yard run. l\tlany another nu1n, Garvy and Hayes, Marl); and others deserve equal praise, Let not their deeds be forgotten by you­Each of Lhen1 wore the old gold and true blue. 
ONE OLD TilVIER DISCOVERS ANOTHER 
T. A. DALY 

This is hbit of garrulous gab frmn an old-thner, 'vhich the writer fervently hopes 'viii not he returned to hiln 'vith the custmnary polite ~~ejection slip by the editor of "The Notre Dmne Football Re­view" for 1920; for if N..D. "roil't print it, no one else 'viii. 
Let n1e hasten to gel in right, frmn the start, by announcing that this is n1ostly · a boost for Notre Dmne. There is, of course a kick in it, but it's only a trifle 1nore thail half of one per cent. .Pray, pardon that, and let us get to our Inut­ton. Let us ennilate the ren1arkable, right-to-the-pointiveness of a yo u n g won1an of this supj)osedly. slow burg of Philadelphia 'vho w0-s strolling with a nice young 1nan under the June n1oon. "l\1ay I," he stannnered, "call you by your first nmne." "You Inay call' n1e by !JOlll' · last nmne if you 'vish," she said. 
Now, I hav~ before n1e a copy of the. "Football Review" for 1919. · It was sent to n1e for the purpose of nu1king Iiie fall 
.so deeply in love with Notre Dmne as to induce a prmnpt acknowledgn1ent of Iny affections. It wasn't necessary. I fell in love with Notre Dmn.e a long, long while ago, and this.passion has grown 'vith the passing years. I have noted, too, with pride quite un1nixed 'vith jealousy, that I mn· not the only lover of Notre Dmne here in the East. Her a(bnirers have in­creased by leaps and bounds (of the heart); and the exploits of the ''Fighting Irish" are largely responsible for. this.. There is nothing so engaging as a 1nanlynuin. · 
It "ras Iny pleasure a few short weeks ago to 'va,ch these "Fighting Irish" be­
ing put through their paces by theincmn­parable Rockne. It 'vas practice pr~linl­inary to the Valparaiso gmne, but of course, the big figure ·lomning up in· every i1nagination 'vas the A1~1ny cadet, to be 1net later at \Vest Point-and de­feated, as usual. That practice 'vas iin­pressive. I 'vas particularly taken 'vith the eagerness with 'vhich the· Freslnnen responded when Rockne· called then1 in to take their punislnnent. · There 'vere 
· "future-greats" aplenty in that squad. It isn't necessary to brag about the "Var­sity." I carry no card in the Refined Gold Gilders' or the Lily Painters' Union. \Vithout detracting at all fro1n the fmne 
·of the Coughlins (Little \Villie arid Dan­nie) or the Andersons, Kiley, Brandy, \Vynne, S1nith or Sha"r, 1nay I be per­Initted to say that the nmnes of these "fighting Irish," Lar·son, Gipp, l\tlohardt­niost appealed to n1e? They did, and for a special reason, 'vhich brings Ine to the n1ain point of this story. 
If, l\tlr. Editor, you have before you, as I have, a· copy of your excellent ~'Foot­ball Review" for HH9, I 'vould ask you to turn to it and look just inside the front door. On page 2 ycni.will find the picture of a group of young 1nen, 'vho are no'v rather ancient. The caption reads: "1887 -Captain Cusick and His First Squad of Fighting Irish." To our eyes today they are. a strange lot. Their innnaculately white shirts and tight pants (unpadded) and the equally candid cmivas s_traight­jackets hearing the letters N. D. pron1pt 
-the whilnsical suggestion that those char­acters stand for "No Dirt." Or, since there are only eleven n1en all told in· the squad, the letters n1ay 1nean "Never Dmi1aged." 
I ~~n esl)ecially drawn to the ~stahvart figure in the center of the picture _,vho · holds the football in the curve ·of his left a~·n1. It was c~1stmnary ·in those days, I suppose, as no,v, to assign the custody of the ball to the caplain, 'vhen the learn posed for its picture. If that's so, the temn of 1887 "ras connnanded by a ·~·ringer!" "Captain Cusick?" Nonsense! This particiil~lr celt. is .no other than Henry B. Luhu, ·son of the late :Major G. 
B. Luhu, one-tilne con1nuuulant of Fort Niobrara, Nebraska, an d no 'v-it's "Hank" of___:a n1an of ilnporlance in Spo­kane, \Vashington. 
You can't fool n1e about old "Hank" Luhu! "I knew hiin well, Horatio." In 
Twentu-One 

J. 

THE SEAS 0 N' S· 
fact, it was he who ahnost pulled 111e to Notre Dmne, when, in the fall of ~87 I 'vas looking about for new acade1nic fields to conquer, and was given· by n1y long suffering father, the choice of Ford­hain .or Notre Dmne. I was fond of hoine-cooked Thanksgh'ing and C_hrist­n~as turkey in those days, and-felt disin­clined to "'ander far away, otherwise_. but not n1atter. Anyway a special provi­dence seen1s to 'vatch over Notre Dmne. -I 'vent to Fordhmn. 
Hank "'cnt to Notre Dmne and passed . smnewluit out of n1y life for a tiine. but he had been very n1uch in it for several long·years, 'vhen ''~c were at Villanova together. One day when Hank and I "'er_e pursuing that branch of our college education which interested· us n1ost, he thrc\V a baseball frmn the outfield which I · didn't sec coining. :i.Vly .hack· was turned. The ball hit pltunh in the· center of what is now a. prmninent bald spot. It hurt. Hank said it was an. accident, hut I "'ouldn't listen to reason. I went for hiin like a terrier, hut Hank was pretty nuiCh of a Inastiff. He shook Inc, 
· laughing all the tiine-his _laugh was al­'v a y s exaspcrating-a n d finally h e spanked Ine. I never forgave "Hank" for that, until I squared accounts a few years later. He 'vas interne at St. Agnes' Hospital, Philadel1Jhia, in the early '90's ·when I 'vas a cub reporter on the Phila­delphia Record. The young doctors at St. Agnes' were in the habit of boxing, in off hours, in-a· quiet corner of the hos­pital. I put on the 1nitts with "Hank," and 'vent-af hiin with furious alarcity. ''Hank" laughed so hard at1ny ring forn1 that he "'as-quite unable to defend hiin­self. I knocked hhn over a bed. 
Perhaps it "'as to brag about this feat 

-that I have turned out this bunch of garqulit)r-"laudator tcnlporis acti, se puero"-hut I hope better things than that \viii be believed of 1ne. It is always a pleasure for n1e to talk to, or of, Notre Dmne n1en, and "Hank" Luhu is one of your old boys of whmn you should be proud. How Inuch he figured in foot­ball, I don't kno\v, but I do kno\v that he pu:Iled a Inighty· oa1~ when N. D. had a cre\v. He has since done credit to his Ahna Mater in the larger affairs of the big world outside. It 'vas a joy to n1e to con1e again so suddenly and unexpect­edly face to face with hiin in the '~Foot­
'I ball Review" of last year. 
-: 
Twenty-Two 
R E J' IE 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
TO ~'SlVIITTY" 

lVIovie, good bye! the boys will surely . n1iss you. They liked your cheerful sxnile and quiet way, The girls, God bless 'en1 all, will "'ant to kiss you, It ga:ve thexn spirit just to sec you play. A thousand hearts are sad to see you leaving, The n1en1ory of your deeds will never die; . Renieinber, dear. old pal, the fans are grieving, l\'Iovic, good bye! 
TO BRANDY 

He-I know a quarter-hack I1ot half n1y · size.· · · She-It can't be so? He-He's ycry light hut oh he's surely . \VISe. She-Do you n1can Joe? He-There's not a faster back in all the land._ Shc-I guess you;rc right. He-He runs his tcmn to beat the very band. She-He sure has fight. He-But Joe is leaving no"'• let's say good bye. Shc-I feel so queer. Hc-\Vhat's that that sccn1s to sn1older in your eye? She-That's just a tear. He-You're sad but show the boys )~ou've got the pluck. She-Just watcll.n1e show. He-Good bye old Joey hoy, we wish vou 
luck. · • She-God ·bless you J oc. 
DAVE HAYES 

Old Dave Hayes was a xnighty old end And a n1igh ty old end was he By Gosh! He broke up plays in a dozen .different · "'ays · And his nmnc "'as Old Dave Hayes By Go~h! 
t\ 
T H E S E A S 0 r.,r ' S 
Old Dave Hayes is going away And he's going a'vay to stay By Gosh! 
But eycrybody_ knows that .wherever · Da\ric goes · He'll bing the other fellow on the nose, 
By Gosh! Old Dave Hayes will be 1nissed next year He'll be 1nissed as he never 'vas before 


By Gosh! He'll be interrupting passes, thrown by SOIUC charining lasses For the gii·ls kno"' '"here the class is all the tiine · By Gosh! 
lVIAURICE STARRETT 
STUDE~T l\'lANAGEH 
This is a hard task. Starrett has per­forJned his nu1ny duties as assistant to _Rockne in a n1anner truly befitting to a

I
,_. 
"Notre ·panic nian." Unassuniing, al­"'ays friendly, Starrett has gone abo!1t l his· work unselfishly with the interests of . t the temn always foren1ost in his Inind, and has "'on the staunch friendship of his coach and the adtniration of the en­tire student body. In addition to his 
I 
student" activities he is a n1onogrmnedI hurdler. 
I CHEER KING SLAGGERT 
l 
The football renaissance at Notre! Dmne has been credited to n1any differ­ent things, but the real success of Notre
.! 
Dmnc, at hmne, has scarcely been deeply speculated on. The success 'vhich has 

I 
l brought the unprecedented crowds. the . 
I turbulent sideline n1asses and hundreds of newly Inade football fans to Cartier Field is largely to the credit of one n1an.
i
I 
That n1an is Alfred Slaggert, Notre Dmne's first real sure-enough cheer king'l de luxe. Slaggert's "'ork last year clearly entitled hiin to the position 'vhichl he holds this year as Notre Dmne's first cheer leader and probable n1onogrmn n1an. "AI" detnonstrated his organiz­ation, personality and controlling abili­ties on several successful occasions inI I i919 when the "cheering gmne" at Notre Dmne was at its lowest ebb. Fron1 the
!­
thne Slaggert look hold of things there ! j "'as no doubt as to the quality of the
i 
student support either vocal or 1nornl onl any occasion needed. It was there, be-
I 
! 
I 
R E ·y I E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
cause "AI" could bring it out. "AI" first successfully_ led the hundreds of Gold and Blue followers to a rooting victory over Indiana's "howling host" of thou­s~nds. This year the rooting on Cartier Field has easily been the eqt1al of that exhibited by any schools in the Inid-,vest. Visiting almnni, old students and friends have lavishly con1pliinented the uni­versity on the restilts that have con­stantly been shown by Cheer King Slaggert and his aides, Burke and Eck­erle. Ceaseless drilling efforts and an unfailing spirit" on Alfreil Slaggert's part has 1nade Notre Dmne. cheering and 
. student support what nuu1y old tiniers have dremned it should be; . "lVIore power to you," AI. 
\VHO IS IT? \Vho is it that we like to see stand out before the crowd? \Vho is it has the rolling ,;oice so thun­derously loud? \Vho is it of whon1 all the school is very justly proud? · · Little \Villi~. \Vho is it tackles anything no 1natter what it be·? · · \Vho is it that above the heads of other n1an can sec? \Vho is it that before a foe was neve1~ known to· flee? Little \Villie. \Vho is it now for whmn "'e weave a wreath of laurel green? And con1e 'vith all the stateliness that ever yet was seen. . And as he bows his tital forin· we slip it on his-bean? · Litlle \Villic. 
l\'IAURICE "lVIOVIE" Sl\HTH 
Thanksgiving Day, Nhieteen Hundred and Twenty, witnessed the h1st appear­ance of nun1crous stars in college foot­ball. Atnong stars even, there ai·e son1e greater than others, greater in that· far­r~aching brilliancy 'vhich they radiate round about lhen1, and, mno:i1g-stars too, there is always one whose lust'i·ous shafts outshine, outpoint and outglittcr his fel­lows. The collegiate football seasonjust closed had its galaxy of hnninarics, each position "'as well and nobly defended and chmnpioncd. Frmn end to end and 
Twenty-1'/zree 
., 
.,, .. 


.. 
1 0 
THE SEASO"f\T'S REVIE1V OF 1920 
! . 
I 
i 
l 
! I r 
i 
I 
i 
r i :' '·i 

THE SEASQl\T'S 

frmn quarter-back to full-back; in order to justly pick an All-An1crican Temn, a truly non-partial critic \Vould of neces­sity be cmupclled to place ·on such a temn approxiinatcly one hundred. play­.ers. To n1crcly choose eleven is wrong -wrong because of the siinple reason that there are 1nore than eleven. There are so 1nany n1en for the half-back posi­tions that are on a par, all cqua]ly good. \Veigh this quality, or that, cmnparc this ability or .that and still the critic finds n1ore than, just two half-backs. Take the full-backs and the smne holds good. Take the quarters and you ·are. con­fronted \Vilh a like problen1. Take the ends and again the difficulty repeats itself. Take the tackles and you find the smne trouble. Take the center and once n1orc you have food (or argtnnent. Take even the guard position, that ofleft guard and you will find n1ore than one that arc all equally \Vondepful, equally powerful and equally sufffcient .for any temn­BUT!-Take. the position of right guard, and there is no need to look about for Inore than one, for there is but one right guard. . You cxclaiin, '·'\Vhal! Only one I~lan.for the right gua,rd position?" Stop for an instant, consider for a n1on1cnt, cmnpare statistics, look at results and then draw your own conclusion. An ideal guard n1ust be able to do 1nore things· . than just \Vear a suit apd belong to the favorite .'~Frat." He ~1eed not of necessity be, spectacu}ar-'--thc 1~eal guard never is. He nurst \Vork, first of all, wilh the temn as part of the tcmn, and he n1ust get his n1an.. He nurst not only figh_t,. but fight hard and at the smne tiine fair. He Blust not only nuike holes for his backfield, he n1ust he hole-proof hiinself. He Blust not only be able to tackle hut he nurst he able to tackle hard. In a word, he n1ust not only be irre1~1ovahle and ·iinpenetra­hlc on defense but he nursl be irrepressi­ble and irresistible on offense. Handi­caps, no n1atler \Vhat 1nay be their na­ture, \Vill fail to stop hinl.. These are son1e of ·the qualifications, physical in kind that the real star guard should ha-\•e and radiate. Besides these, the real star guard, as far as n1ental attributes tlrc concerned, is as unassun1ing and quiet as· he \Vas physically Gggressive and active. He never played because he sought the adulation and cheers of the spectators-he played because he \Vanted his temn to \vin, .he. fought· because he was a true son of his Ahna l\tlater-he 
Twenty-Six 
RE1'IE·1~' OF 1920 
·worked because there was Inorc n1usic, 1nore app~·ccia tion, n1ore praise in the gruff, curt, sharp, "nice work" con1ing frmn the Coach than in any other forn1 of ·notice. If a fcllo\v-playcr, a fello\v­tcanuuatc \Vas hud, h~ ahvays gave ·a helping hand, and if an opponent \Vas injured he was always the first to give aid or to seck it. His school and his tcmn first, his opponents second, hiinsclf last. In street clothes a n1an-in foot­hall togs a fightii}g nu1n, and in the csti­nlation and hearts of all who knc\V hiin, an All-An1crican n1an-such is the greatest right guard of the 1920 season, 1\'Iauricc "'Movie" Sn1ith, our All-Anicri­can·Right Guard. 
-. 
FROl\tl TEXAS 

· Praise of individuals would seen1 to be the proper substance ·of a Revie\V of Notre Dmne Football Temns of the last dec·adc:·-During that period a goodly n u 111 b e r of players have achieved national distinction. So1ne of U1e1n have deservedly obtained. title to .All-Anleri­can rating. j\ll have added to the glory of the Gold and Blue. 
Bl.rt thei·e is another poi.nt of vie\V equally \Vorthy of attention.. Let praise of individuals be in this instance set aside and consideration be given to the ilnpressive fact that, however splendid 1nay have been the achieveBJents of in­dividual players, ·pernianei1ce of high class temn-play, year in and year out, has becmne truly characteristic Qf the grid­iron Inen of N oJre DaB~ c. 
\Vhether or not Rockne he the re­sourceful coach now, or Harper, as in the days when Rockne was his pupil and later his assistant, it Blalters little; the n1en \Vho have directed the energies and sti1nillated the genius of the players, and they then1sclves, \vho have been thus directed and sliinulated, have dedicated their efforts to the success of the tcmn idea so faithfully and so persistently, that success has followed upon their . efforts with unfailing regularity. The reputation ·of possessing pcnnanent .power, season after season, has set upon their skill a n1ark of distinction \Vhich has enabled critics to pass judgtncnt not only on the relative abilities of notable individual at)1letes but also upon the relative Blerits of 1nany of the leading tean1s of the country. And· that smne 
T .H E · S E A S 0 N ' S · R E V I E 1V 0 F 1 9 2 0 
' . 
reputation of possessing pernunient power 'viii continue to give to the nlono­granl of the Gold and Blue a glory that is 'veil 'vorth striving for. There is satisfaction in the thought· that. Notre Drin1e has built solidly the foundation upon which is to rest the glory of her athletes. 
GRIDIRON GENEALOGY 
Smncbody ought to write a history of football and smnebody else ought to lecture on the subject three titnes. a "reck. Think how popular a course it w.ould be and how easy for the professor: no nniCldle-hcadcd questions, no absences, no ponies, and no conditonal "exmns !" Really, football history is of just as In~uch iinportance as the story· of the ancient Patagonians or tl_1c )dugs of ~~1.gland. The writer could call Ius work l\.Ick Chron­icles," or "Pigskin Papers" or, if l~e had studied in Ger1nany, "The Evolution of the Cheerleader; a Study in Insanity." He could usc the diction of ancient ti1nes and speak of Sir Knights charging down the lea; and, e~ercising' his scientific genius, he n_1ight construct all sorts of bypothcscs to account for the fact that Notre Dmnc is not in the Conference. 
This brings us to what "rc 'vantcd ~? say. This old school would stand out In football history as a Napolconic dynasty that never saw \Vatcrloo. Over in Australia they tell of Sir George Gipp who as governor. of the Island routed the Buslunc'n·; but oiu· own George sn1ashed the An1erican Anny! P. T. Barnuin hrought back. Jutnbo's scalp frmn India once; we have t~1kcn it frmn Indianapolis twice. lVIany .outposts have been cap­tured in battle, hut nobody except Notre Dari1c ever ran a'vay with goal-posts. Philbrook and Sunnybrook had the smne effect on folks years ago, and since the passage of the Volstead Act, Brandy has intoxicated thousands. There is nothing that figures in victory like a \\:ynn~ and the last but not least," the only K1ng I\.nute we recognize in this Republic live~ in South Bend, Indiana. \Vc could conhnue indefinitely, but J)apcr is scarce. Any­how. we (io not 'vish to convey the iin­prcssion·lhat "re are as iinpartial as \Val­ier Cmnp. · 
Football is not scholarship, but neither 
is war. Hindcnburg has no 'n1orc con­
ce1~n with the culture of the n1ind than Eichenlaub. But the ungentle· art of transporting the pigskin has Incant a great deal to the lads at Notre Dmne.. It has told .folks about the place and ehnl­inatcd a big supply of supercilious eye~ bro,v-raising :when 've told then1 'vhe-re our degrees were going to cmne . fro1n. The con1n1on people in ,.\rl1on1 've trust have learned all about Notre Dmne fron1 the score-board. They can't be told that there is no such -place 'vhen they have seen the Gold and Blue on 1nany a ·field. Sooner or later they 'viii discover-are 

. discovering-the other side.s of the ge!l­ius of Notre Dmne, and tlus school 'viii inherit the dignity for 'vhich it has "labored so long. 
There! \Ve have .dra"'n one n1oral fron1 our history. It 'vasn't done inten­tionally but we'll leave it. \Vhcn 've chuckle over the temn that did big things this year, let us ren1en1ber the great and goodly n1en of the pa~t: Salinon and Dorais, Edwards and Fitzgerald, Farley and Hmnillon, and Pliska and Elward and l.VIiller and ·a hundred n1ore-n1en, an· of thenl, who put their best into the gmne and establishc·d a trad~tion .which 

·we n1ust 'vork our heads oft. to hvc up to. \Vhen Coughlin and Barry and Gipp und the rest of those 'vho take sheep­skins with thcn1 next June leave the field for history we can only say 'vith the poet· that they go with· a glorious cmnpany; that they can wrap the drapery of their blankets about thc1n and lie down to pleasant dremns. As for us, 'vc'rc not going to li:c down at all. 've'rc going to give nine 'rahs for evcrybod)~· 
TO NORl\I 
\Ve've watched you fron1 the lVIiniins up, 'Twas here you lived and grew And that's perhaps the reason why· \Ve are so proud of you. You learned to run at Notre D~in1e, · Fron1 dodging prefects 'oft, So otit upon the football field The running gmnc was soft. You brought us nuu1y to~1chdowns, Nonn, You nuHle the foe's stand 1noan, \Ve cheered you n1ore than all the rest B~cause you are our own. Good luck .be yours, no n1atter "rhere your lot in life is cast, And to"rard the goal posts of success \Vc know you'll travel fast. 
Twentu-Se11en 
THE S E. AS 0 l\T' S 

i 
THE SEASON BY AncHIE \VAno "I'ri1 happy," sighed the \Vhale after ·he had dined upon the succulent Colonel ·Jonah. and restnned his swhn to quicken ; his digestion. In which the \Vhale had
I 
. i nothing whatever on the Notre Dan1e 
. I 
i 
football fan today-that vast sport loving 
i fandmn of the gold and blue that will s'vann forth soon for the holiday vaca­tion. 
The greatest era of sporting activity in the history of Notre Dmne was concluded 'vith the faded football season. Last year's ui1~lefeated gridiron cmnpaign · was a Inerry prelude. . 
.. All our best young superlatives are Justified in fashioning the review of the 1920 football season. It 'viii stand stark alone as the_n1ost prosp.erous both frmn the standpoint of sterling colnpetition
.. 
a~ul fron1 the box oflice viewpoint in the history.of the gmne. Successive victories over Kalmnazoo, \Vestern Nonnal, Ne­ln·a~ka, Valparaiso, \Vest Point, Purdue, Inch?-na, No_r,th\\;estern and the lVIichigan .Agg~es n1er1t the undisputed chmnpion­. ship of the \\'est for the gmnest bunch of .~thletes_. that eve~· stepped on a gridiron. ~ .1-i.pproxunately eighty-five thousand fans 
sa'v Notre Dmne in action this esason. Before the cur~ai.n is rung down coni­. pletely on 192q football it Inight be well ~o shower prmses 'vhere conunendation Is due. During the last three Inonl.hs a host of individuals· have· risen to heroic heights in their endeavors to achieve glory on the gridiron. Not alone have the players responded with unusual suc­cess but several coaches have aspired to fmne and clasped hands with that elusive deity. During t_he season that officially ended Thanksgiving day we find no individuals so deserving of attention as Knute Rockne, Notre Dmne's illustrious coach, and Frank Coughlin, captain of the greatest.tea~n that ever represented a \\'estern Institution. Rockne, 've believe, stands forth as the n1ost successful coach in Atnerica this season. After the. Notre Dmne-Artny gmne at \Vest Point last .October the cadets "'ere certain that Rockne is the greatest football tutor in thG world and that he ought to run for president oi· smnething like thal. Rockn<: developed an mnazing offence out of light but speedy n1aterial. He 

Trventu-Eigllt 
. I I 
R E Y IE 1V 0 F 1 9.2 0 
brought to \Vest' ·Point lVIohardt, Barry, \Vynne and Bt•andy, a quartet of line sinashers that hardly have been~ eciualled this season. And he did not rely entirely upon the strength of these youngsters, but. developed a n1ystifying overhead attack with the scintillating Gipp in the van, whose accuracy in hurling the oval was uncanny. Rockne never left a loop­hole in his squad and deserves all the glory that went to Notre Dmne "'hen it cracked the Anny for a 27 to 17 triuniph. 
Rockne's backs had an mnazing 'vay of piling through the forwards and to the se~ondary defense. Every n1an who re­C<:Ived the ball started like a sprinter. His early n1on1entun1 carried hhn crash­ing into the line, and nine tiines out of teh he n1ade a hole· for hiinself if one 
·was not already there. Then it 'vas up to the secondary defense to check his advance. · It was· astonishing to the on­lookers to see the Notre Dmne backs ao through that big Ar1ny line so easi~'. \Vest Point and the critics in attendance learned a lot of football at that amne which they ne-\rer expected to kno"~ 
Notre Dmne was fortunate indeed in h~ving a captain the calibre of Frank Coughlin. \Vhen a football temn lacks fighting spirit the captain is invariably at fault. \Vhen an aggregation fails to fight through the crisis of the cmnpaign we lool~ to the leader for the reason. It "'as evident to devotees of the gold and blue at the outset that the success ·of the season would depend in a large n1easure upon. the quali.Ly of leadership Coughlin JH"OVIded. For hhn it was the test. The club carried every other essential than the n1ental wallop-a n1ost vital factor at a crucial Inon1ent in a pennant struggle. 
. Coughlin's success as a captain is in­disputable. The recent .imn was a test d?wn to bech;ock for his ability as a lead­ei of n1en. Notre Dmne the past auttunn "'as fmned for its high powei~ed n1ental snu~sh. Frmn the thne the boys lined up agmnst Kalmnazoo early in Octobei· to the final blast of the 'vhistle on Turkey d_ay they blazed away with a gallina in either fi~t. Da"'clling found no plac~ in the rouhne of the gold and blue. Notre Dmne ca~Tied an abundant supply of pepper _with all the natural dynmnite of Coughln~. few le~ders ever got their personality Into their club to such aood ef!ect as Coughlin. It was as natural for Ius temn to fight as it is (or a fuzzy gos­
TH·E SE·ASO-rl'S REYIE11' OF 19.20 
ling to strike oul in a breast strol~e on  
the. occasion of its initial plunge.  
Consider the avhieven1en t of the Irish  
\Varriors, for exmnple, in the. Indiana  
gmne at Indianapolis, Noven1ber 13. Con­ 
sider the outlook at the slart of the fourth  
quarter with the count 10 to 0 against  
•i I  Lhen1 and the Crilnson nu1ehine operat­ing after the nu1nner of a eresting \Vave beating towards the beach. Did they fold, did they wither under  
Lhe assault? Not on your so-called tin­ 
I  type. The change \Vas ilntnediate and con1plete. Their feather duster attack  
!  becmne a bruising barrage. The old  
I  spirit of battle surged in the collective Noll'e Dmne breast; they began to fight.  
Alul lest we forget we'll 'vhisper this  
I I  here-that when the· Irish are fighting! they need bow to nq temn in the gmne. The final period had hardly got under­ 
I I l I I I  way before the storn1 broke after the ftishion of a volcano that had just de­cided to erupt. The sprightly details are known to all. lVIenacing jabs at the Indiana line by Barry, .lVIoliardt and \Vynne, lightening­ 
like forward and lateral passes with in­ 
terference as fast and alert as the west  
had seen this season and above all brainy  
generalship by Joe Brandy proved ~l con~­ 
bination too powerful for Coach Shelnn s  
confident perforn1ers and before the  
sn1oke screen \Vas lifted fro1n the field  
Notre Dmne had rung up a brace of  
touchdowns ·and tucke'd the pastiine in  
the refrigerator with the rest of the  
swecln1et1Ls. And after that? \Vith Ethel  
Barryn1ore we say-"There isn't any  
1110re."  
During the Harvard-Princeton gmne  
son1e one asked Captain lVIcE,van, the old  
Ar1ny star, 'vhat sort of football player  
I ;..., !  Gipp 'vas. "He isn't a football player," replied lVIcEwan. "He's a \vild stallion  
·running mnuck."  
NOTRE DAlVIE ON THE GRIDIRON  
This is Notre Dmne's llzirly-second  
f oolball season. ,., .  
11re started llze gcune in 1887 hy.losing  
to lVIichigan, 8 to 0.  
l\'Iichigan had been playing six years  
and canw down to teach us the ga1ne.  

Since then \Ve have played 220 games, winning 168, losing 36 and tying .16. 
Previous to this year 1.Votre D(une.lzas scored 57Ll2 points to her opponents' 100Ll, proving the constant quality of our elevens. 
The undefGated 1920 squad is the eleventh undefealed N olre Danw learn in history. Can any ·other school say as 
lllUCh? . 
The N olre D(une .scoring record. \\"as n1ade in 1905 when we walked over· the An1erican lVIedical College of Chicago, 140 to 0. . 
Our worst drubbing was taken frmn \Visconsin in 1904 \Vhen they walloped our coachless eleven, 58 to 0. ·. 
Iri 1912 Luke Kelly's lea1n scored 389 points to our opponents' -27, the rec0rd to ·date. 
Notre Dmne was not scored upon in 1889 or 1'903. · 
Notre Dmne has won a clear title to the slate cluun.pionslzip for fourteen lfear.f) hy defeating title .contenders such as Indi~1na, \Vabash and Purdue. 
Tlze slate clzanzpionslzip has been awarded Notre Danie on ten other counts by cmnparative scores and na­tional standing. 
Nebraska has been beaten in three of six; gmnes, one was a tie. 
1Ve. have nwt N orllzweslern four thnes previous to this year and won two, lost one and tied one.· 
In eleven· battles with Purdue for the stale title we have \Von six, lost three and lied two gmnes. 
\Ve have also battled with Indiana on eleven occasions, resulting in six gmnes won, four lost and one lied. 
Notre Dmne's first invasion of the cast was in 1909 'vhen "Red" lVIiller's temn \Valloped Pittsbui·g, 6 to 0. Since that tilne fourteen other invasions of the ,~ast have resulted in eleven notable victories, three defeats and one 0 to 0 tie. 
N olre Da1iw's vicliJns in llze east in­clude the Al'lny on five occasions, PHts­burg twice,· with o'ne tie; Penn State, Syracuse and Carlisle; 
.1ozu;neying info the souththe Gold and Blue has p_resented a perfect record of three victories in three gmnes. The un­defeated Texas "Longhorns" fell twice and Rice Institute fell by a 55 to 2 store.
. . 
1'wenlti..:Ninc 

•,/ 
If 
( 
i THE SEASQl\T'S 
I. 
THE SPIRIT OF THE TEAl\'I 

Two seasons without a defeat or a tie score is no n1ean record for any football temn. Seldo1~1 does a temn_-'or-· ·calibre accmnplish ~uch result if it~:: opp_onents 
I 
'I be of equal standing with itself. :Most of I the recognized top~notch aggregations of both the East and the \Vest play n1orc n1ediocre temns than good ones during the course of their schedules; and their· hard gmnes are so arranged that no two of then1 will fall within a period of two 
'veeks. Thus a week of rest generally precedes a big gmne. Noll;e Dmne, how­ever, has not lJeen particular as to the succession of fortnidable foes on her schedule after the first hvo at the open­ing of the season. Frmn the first real ga~n1e until the end of the season no 1nediocre elevens find place on the Gold and Blue schedule, and there occur no rest-weeks to in·epare the temn for its next wor"thy opponent.

.I 
Practically every temn frmn husky Nebraska to the aggressive :Michigan "Aggies" was pointed toward one gmne -that with Notre Dmne. These temns nursed along their best n1en, keeping then1 out of preceding gmnes in order that they n1ight be in their best fonn for 


: :i !j 
·_!I 
'111 
. ~ 
·H,, )i 
l 
il ·I 
'I 
II 
REVIE11' OF 1920 
the battle with· Notre Dmne. Li.ttle did they care, it seen1s,'for victory oyei· other Lemus; a successful season llleant above all a trhnnph o,;e~· Not1·c Dmi1e.· Under such: condilions has the Gold and Bh1e battled succe~sfully on the gridiron for the last two years, and it is 'vith not a little pardonable pride that the student­body and the ahunni of the Univei~sity look ·back on the glorious achievetnents of:the Lemus of 1919 and 1920. 
It is a striking fact in our victories.over Nebraska, Valparaiso, \Vest Point, and Indiana that each of these opponents scored first, and that then the Vat~sity ·struck its stride.and turned the tide to victory for itself. Throughout the sea­son the n1orale of the .temn 'vas 100 per cent and a handicap score of. ten points or so by the opposition only served to arouse the fighting and 'vinning spirit of Captain Coughliii's n1en. \Vhen on. the~e occasions the temn cmne frmn belund 111 the 1niddle or last quarter of the con~test it was surcharged 'vith a driving force that was irresistible and 'vhich in every instance scored a final victory. Such is the spirit that enabled _Notre Dmne to achieve a record of two years without a defeat and to lay good clahn to the chmnpionship title in \yestern football. 

THE SEAS.ON'S REV1E11( O.F 19.20 

i 
L t 
AUGUST DESCH 
"Gus" Desch, hurdling agahist the world's fore1nost lin1ber toJ)pers put up a gritty exhibition of Notre Dan1e fight at the Olyn1pic gmnes, when he finished third, a bare two yards behind Lomnis, in the four-fourty high barrier go. Lomnis cleared in fifty-four flat, toppling the world record for that event which 
<_:ius Desch 
w~1s one of the n1ost thrilling contests of the big n1eet. "Gus" is a hurdler of per­feel forn1 and one whose prowess is uni­versally recognized. The Gold and BIue. is sure of hurdling points in every Ineet 'vilh Desch bearing the brunt of ilw barrier events. 
\VILLIAil'I HAYES 
''Bill" Hayes was lined up with the fore1nost century arrows of the world at Antweq). In addition to the ke~n cmnpe­tilion, the husky (Jash king was greatly handicapped owing to a knee injury sus­tained shortly before his departure for Belgiun1. As a result, Hayes, 'vho was expected to breast the tape 'veil in ad­


Bill Hayes · .John :Murphy 
vance of Paddock, "'as forced to bow to the n1etcroric Californian. It can he con­servatively stated that Hayes, dash Inan extraordinary, 'viii shatter the records which he has already equalled on several occasions, befo1~e he puts his spiked shoes on the shelf. 
Tllirtu-One 

T H'E S E A S.Q 1\r ' S R E Y I E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
JOHN :MURPHY 

"Johnny" 1.\'Iurphy, National A. A. U. Junior high jtnnp chmnpion, was gen­erally conceded first.-place in the leap event at Antwerp particularly· after his easy victory over Landon of Yale in the preli1ninary trials held in Philadelphia.. "Rock's" pre1nier j u1np ace, set the chilly field fans gasping when he cleared the bar with aperfect leap good for six feet, four inches. ·l\'Iurphy ·was however, forced· to jtnnp under conditions foreign to his n1ethods across the pond, Landon copping the event, 1naking six feet, four and a half inches, which is, incidentally, a ne'v Olyn1pic record. That ~'lurphy is a better n1.an at the event than· Landon, goes 'vithout saying, and we look for­ward .,vith eager anticipation to the tiine 'vhen the two will agairi n1eet. 
COl\'IPLETE OLYMPIC RECORDS OF ALL EVENTS 
100 Meters: 1, Pa(ldock (A1n.); 2, Kirk­s.ey (An1.); 3, Eclwards (Eng.); 4, Scholz (An1.); 5, Ali Khan (France); 6, l\'Iurchi­son (A1n.). T. 10· 4/5. 
200 lVIeters: 1, \Voodring (A1n.); 2, 
Paddock (A1n.); 3, Edwarcls (Eng.); 4, · l\'Iurchison (An1.); . 5, Davidson (New Zealand); 6, Osterlaak (So. Africa). 
Tiine 22. 
400 1.\'Ieters: 1. Rudel (So. Africa); 2, Butler (Eng.); 3, Engdahl (S,veden); L1, Shea (A1n.); 5, Ainsworth (Eng.); 6, Dafel (So. Africa). Tiine 49 3/5. 
800 l\'leters: 1, Hill (Eng.); 2, Eby (An1.) ; 3, Rudel, (So. Africa~) ; 4, l\'Ioun­tain (Eng.); 5, Scott (An1.); 6, Sprott· (An1.). Ti1ne 1.53 2/5. 
1,500 :Meters: 1, Hill (Eng.); 2. Baker 
(Eng.); 3, Schields (An1.); 4, Vorahlik 
(Tch.-Sl.); 5, Landgreen (Sweden); 6, 
Audinet (France). Tiine 4.1 L1j5: 
. 5,000 1.\'Ieters: 1 Guille1not (France)· 2 Nur1ni (Finland); 3, Baclnnann (S{ve~ d~n); 4, Kosk.esvienl (Finland); 5, Ble­·witt (Eng.); 6, Seadrove (Eng.) Tiine 14:55 3/5. .· 
·1_D,OOO ·lVIelers: 1, N ur1ni (Finland) ; 2, Gtnllen1ot (France); 3, \Vilson (Eng.); 
Thirtu-1'wo 
L!, 1.\'Iatario (Italy); 5, Haskel (Eng.); 6, 
1.\'Ianhes (Fra·nce). Tiine 31.45 4/5. 
1.\'Iarathon, 26 1niles: 1, Koleh1nainen 
(Finland), 2 h. 32.35 4/5; 2, Loss1nan 
(Esthon.) 2 h. 32.42 3/5; 3, Arry Valerio 
(Italy) 2 h. 38.37 L!/5; ~1, Bross (Belgitun) 
2 h. 39.25 L!/5; 5, Ttnnikoski (Finland) 
2 h. L10.18 L!/5; 6, Sofus Rosn (De1unark) 
2 h. 48.18; 7, Jo. 01~gan (An1.) 2 h. 41.30; 
8, Hansen (Deninark)_ 2 h. 41.39 2/5; 9, 
Falgren (Finland) 2 h. L12AO; 10,_ ·Tatu 
Kolelunainen (Finland) 2 h. 44.3 1/5. 
110 Meter Hurdles: 1, Thon1s9n. (Can­
ada); ·2, Baron (An1.); ·3, 1.\'Iurray, (A1n.); 
Ll, \Vilson (New Zealand); 5, ·S1nith 
(An1.); 6, Christiansen (Sweden). Tiine 
14 4/5. . . 
400 l\'Ieter Hurdles: 1, Loo1nis (A1n.); 
2, Norton (An1.); 3, Desch . (An1.); 4, 
Andre (France); 5, Christiansen (Swe­
den); 6, Daggs (An1.) .· Tiri1e 54 . 
. 3,000 lVIeters Obstacle Race: 1, Hodge (Eng.); 2, Flynn (A1n.) ; 3, An1brosini (Italy); L!, lVIateson · (S,veden); 5, De­vai~ey (A1n.); 6, Hulsebosch (An1.). Tiine 10 -/5. 
, 3,000 lVIeters \Val.k: 1, Frigerio (Italy) ; 2, Parker (Australia); 3, Reiner (An1.); L~., ~'lacl\'Irt~~(ner. (So. Africa); 5, ~1aroney tAn1.) I nne 13.V1 1/5. 
10,000 lVIeters \Val k: 1, Frigerio (Italy); 2, Pearn1an (A1n.); 3, Grun (Eng.); 4, lVIaster (Canada)· 5, Hehir (England).· Tiine 48.10 1/5. ' 
Running High .Ttnnp: 1, Landon (A1n.) 
lin. 93 1/2; 2, lVIuller (An1.) lii1. 90; 3, 
Ekelund (Sweden) lin. 90; L!, \Vhelan 
(Ain.) lin. 89; 5, lVIurphy (An1.) lin. 87; · 6, Baker (Eng.) lin. 85. Running Broad .Ttnnp: 1, ·Pettersen (Sweden) 7In. 15;. 2, Johnson (Sweden) 7I~1. 09; 3, Abrahmnson (S,veden) 7In. 08; 4~ Te1npleton (An1.) 6111. 95; 5, Aastad (Norway) 61n: 86; 6, Frankson (Sweden) 6m. 73. 
Pole Vault: 1, Foss (An1.) Lhn. 09; 2, Peterson (Dentnark) 3In. 70; 3, lVlyers (An1.) 3n1. 65; L1, Knourk (Esth.) 3In. 60; 5, Rydberg (Sweden) 3In. 55; 6, .Torgen­sen·(Deninark) 3In. 50. . 
Rtn1~1ing Hop, Step and Jtunp: 1, Ten­los (Finland) 1Lbn. 55; 2, Ahnlof (S\ve-. den) 1Lhn. 27; 3, Jansson (Sweden) 14In. 48; L1, Sahlen1 (Sweden) 14nL 17; 5. Ahearn (An1.) 1Lhn. 08. · 
T H E .S E A S 0 N .,' S R E 1' I E 1~' 0 F. 1 9 2 0 
Putting 16 lb. Shot: 1, Porolla (Fin­land) 1Lln1. 81; 2, Niklander (Fiiiland) 14nL 15 1/2; 3, Liversedge (An1.) 1L!n1. 15; 4, l\'IcDonald (An1.) 14n1. 08; 5, Nill­son (Sweden) 13nr. 87; 6, Tanuner 
(Esth.) 13n1. 60. 
Throwing 56 lb. \Veight: 1, l\'IcDonald (An1.) 11In. 26 1/2; 2, Pat Ryan (An1.) 10n1. 96; 3, Lynd (Sweden) 10n1. 22; 4, Dimnond (Canada) lOn1. 12; 5, Swenson (Sweden) 9n1. 45; 6, Petterson (Sweden) 9111. 27. 
J aveliil: 1, l\'Iyrrha (Finland) 66n1. 78; 2, Belconnen (Finland) 63n1. 60; 3, J o­hannson (Finland) 63n1. 09; L!,. Saarito 

·(Finland) 62111. 395; 5, Khnnberg (Esth.) 
62n1. 39; 6, Lindstrm11 ,(Sweden) 601n. 
52. 
Throwing Hanuner: 1, Pat Ryan (An1.) 52111. 87 1/2; 2, Lind (Sweden) 501n. L13; 3, Bennett (An1.) 48In. 23; Ll, Seenson (Sweden:) 47n1. 29; 5, l\'Iacgrath (An1.) L16nl. 67; 6, Nicholson (Sweden) 45nl. 70. 
Throwing Discus: 1, Niklander (Fin­land) 44n1. 68 1/2; 2, Taipale (Finland) 4L1n1. 19; 3, Pope (An1.) L12n1. 13; 4, Zan­hagen (Sweden) Llltn. 07; 5, Bartlett (An1.) 40n1. 87; 6, Erickson (Sweden) 39n1. Lll. 
400 l\'Ieters Relay: 1, An1erica (Pad­dock, Scholz, l\'Inrchison, Kirksey) 42 1/5; 2, France (Ali Khan, Tirard, Lorrain, l\'Iourlon); 3, Sweden (Hohnstron, Linde, l\'Iahn, Sandstrmn); Ll, England .(Abra­hm11s, D'Arcy, Edwards, Hill); 5, Den­I~1ark; 6, Luxe1nbourg.. 
1,600 l\'Ieters Relay: 1, England; 2, So. Afrie~1; 3, France (Dclvart, Devaux, Andre, Fery); 4, An1erica; 5, Sweden; 6, Belgiun1. Tiinc 3.22 1/5. 
3,000 l\'Ieters Temn Race-Individual: 1, Brown (An1.) 8.51 1/5; 2, Raclnnan (Sweden) ; 3, Schardt ·(An1.); L!, Btu·tin (France); 5, Blewitt (Eng.); 6, Dresser (An1.); 7., Hill (Eng.); 8, Shields (An1.); 9, Seagrove (Eng.); 10, Hatton (Eng.); 11, A111brosini (Italy); 12, Devaney (An1.); 13, Lundgreen (Sweden) ; 1Ll, Heuet (France). 
3,000 l\'Ieters 'femn Race: 1, An1erica, 10 points; 2, England, 20 points; 3, Swe­den, 2L1 points; L!, France, 30 points; 5, Italy, 36 points; 6, Luxen1bourg. 
Individual Cross Country: 1, Nur111i (Finland); 2, Baclonann · (Sweden); 3,. Ltunatainen (Finland); 4, \Vilson (Eng­land); 5, Hegarty (England); 6, Kosken­ieini (Finland); 7, Van Cmnpenhout (Belgitnn); 8, Heuet (France). Tiine 27.15. 

Temn Cross Cotnitry: 1, Finland, 10. points; 2, England, 21 points; 3, Sweden, 23 poinls; L!, An1erica, 36 points; 5, France, L10 points; 6, Belgitnn; 7, Den­n1ark. 
Penlhathlon: 1, Lethonen (Finland) 18 points; 2, Bradley (An1erica) 25 points; 3, Hmnillon, Legendre, Larthinen, 2Q poii1ls; 4, Lovland, 27 points; 5, Ohlson, 30 points. 
Decathlon: 1, Lovland (Norway) 6.770 points; 2, Hmnilton (A1nerica) 6.763; Ohlson (Sweden) 6.579;· Hohner (Swe­den) 6.533; Nilsson . (Sweden) 6.434; \Vickhohn (Finland) 6A06; Vida I (An1erica) 6.359; Gyllenstolpe (S,vedeil) 6.332;· Gespach (Suisse) 5.9L18. · 
Tug of \Var: 1, England. 
100 :Meters: 1, Kohonmnoku (An1erica) 1.1 2/5; 2, Kaehola (An1erica) 1.2 3/5; 3, Harris (An1erica); 4, Herald (Austra-· lia). 
400 l\'Ieters: 1, ~ornu1n· Ross (A1i1eri­can) 5.26 4/5; 2, Langer (A1i1erica) 5.29; 3, Vernot (Canada) 5,29 3/5; 4, Kahele (An1erica). 
1,500 l\'Ieters: 1, Noriilan Ross· (Anler­ica) 22.23 1/5; 2, Vernot (Canada); 3; Heaurepaire (Australia); 4, Kahele (An1­erica); 5, Bolden (A1nerica) :. · 
100 l\'Ieters for \Vmnen: 1, l\'Iiss Bleib­lrey (An1erica) 1.13 3/5.; 2, l\'Iiss Guest (An1erica) 1.17; 3, l\'Iiss Schroth (An1er­ica) 1.17 1/5; 4, l\'Iiss Jeans (Eng.); 5, lVIiss \Valrond (New Zealand); 6, Gyl-· ling (Sweden); 7, Boyle (An1erica). 
300 l\'Ietcrs: l\'Iiss Bleibtrey (Ai1Ierica) J.34; i\'liss \Voodbridge (An1erica) L1A4; 3, l\'Iiss Schroth (An1erica) 4.32; 4, l\'Iiss Jmnes (England).. · 
200 l\'Ieters, Breast: .1, l\Iahnroth (Swe­den) 3A 2/5; 2, Henning (Sweden) 3.9 2/5; 3, Alloonen (Fi11land) 3.12 1/5; .:1, Howell (An1erica). 
400 i\'leters, Breast: 1, l\'Inhnroth (Swe­wen) 6.34; 2, Henning (Sweden) 6.40 1/5; 3, Alloonen (Finland) 6.48 2/5; Ll, Ho"\vell (An1ericn); 5, Cedelblon1 (Sweden). 
Fancy Diying: 1, Kuehn (A1nerica) 10 points; 2, Pinkston (A1nerica) 11 points; 3, Balbach .(1\In.erica) 11 points;. 4, Blmn­gren (Sweden) 19 points; 5, Ekstrand 
Tlzirty-Tlzrcc 

:.~ . 
T H E S E A S· 0 f\T , S 
(Sweden) 27 points; 6, Janssen (Swe­den) 34 points. · . High Diving: 1, Vahnan. (Sweden) 7 }Joints; 2, Ekoglond (S\veden) 8 points. 
. \Vater Polo: England defeated Bel­gnun, 3-2; Belgiun1 defeated Holland for second place. 
Rowing-Singles: 1, Kelly (Anierica) 7.35; 2, Beresford (England) 7.36. Doubles: 1, Atnerica (Kelly, Costello) 
7.9; 2, Italy, 8.19; 3, France;· · Pair oared -boats with coxwain: 1, Italy, 7.56; 2, France, -7:57; 3, Sweden, 6.54. 
Four oared boats with coxwain: 1, ~;weden, 6.5L1; 2; Atnerica, 6.58; 3, Nor­
-,.., ?

:way, /..... _ Eight oared boats 'vith coxwain:· 1, Atnerica, 6.2; 2, England, 6.5 3/5. 
GY~[N'ASTICS 
Individual Class: 1, Zanposi (Italy) 88 points; 2, Torres (France) 87.62; 3, Gon­not (France) 87 ·pts. 45; 4, Kmnpeners 

R E 11~ I E 11' 0 F 1 !J :i 0 
(Belgitun) 86 pts. 25; 5, Thurner (France) 86 points; 6, Greech (France) 85 pts.-65; 7, lVIaiocco (Italy) 85 pts. 38; 8, Cartilioso (Italy) 84 pts.; 9, \Vagetnan (Belgitun) 83 pts. 58; 10, Kriz (Atnerica) 83 pts. 10. 
. BoxiNG 

Flyweight: DeGenerao (An1.) defeated Petersen (Dentnark) by points. Banlmnweight: \Valter (S. A.) de­feated Grahmn (Canada) by points. · Featherweight:. Fritsch (France) de­feated Gachet (France) by points. Lightweight: lVIosberg (An1.) defeated Johansen (Dentnark) by points. _ · \Velterweight: Schneider (Canada) defeated Ireland (England) by points. lVIiddleweight: '\\Tallin (An1.) defeated Prudhonune (Canada) by points.· Heavy-light 'veight: Eagan (An1.) de­
feated Noi·stal (Non\'ay) by points. . Heavyweight: Rawson (Eng.) defeated Petersen (Denn1ark) by knockout. 
Tllirty-Four 
\ 
\ 
\ 

j 


1-~ 
THE SEASQl\T'S REVIE1~' OF 1920 

Our Captains, 1920--1921 
~ 


-Et'
/-, ..,j._' •• --\
I ., 

.TOI·IN l\IOHARDT CYIUL KASPEH. Baseball Track 
'· 
.... 
HAHRY-1\IEHHE Basketball 

To he a captain of any sport at .Notre Dnmc means that you arc the best man in that branch of athletics enrolled in school. Here arc four fine examples. In all sports Notre Dame holds a place up at the top, and to he captain in any branch is indeed an honor. 
Tllirtu-Fir'e 



THE SEA S 0 1\T' S R E l' 1· E H' 0 F· 1 9 2 0 



Three Stars· frotn One High School 

GIPP, ANDERSON, LARSON 
It is. quite an honor for any high school to lnve one of their graduates picked as a regular on the· Notre Dame Varsity. Laurium C\lichigan) has three men starring at the same time on the Varsity of '.20, in the persons of Gipp, Anderson and Larson. This is a remarkable record, indeed.. 
Tllirtu-Six 
THE SEAS 0 l\T' S 


Our Ar1ny eleven, Inighly throughout 'the season and for three-quarters of its gmnes against Notre Dmne, ~·an into a r-Lll-de-sac or a chevaux-de-fru;e or per­haps an abbcilloir, during the last period, and Notre Dmne today is hailed as second to none.-(By . George Currie, Brooklyn Eagle, Noven1ber 1.) 
Just once tl1is year I have seen U1e quick l~ick utilized in a n1ajor gmne. Notre -Dmne flashed it against the Ar1ny on last Sah.trday. and ·gaii.1ed n1ore ground with it than with any other kick it n1ade. The soldiers, sucked in close by a line­attack, were taken cmnpletely by sur­prise, and the ball rolled deep into \Vest Point territory. \Vilh a clever punter to do the bnoting, there is no reason why this Inanoeuver sl1ould not con1e into greater use. It is sound, if used wisely, and has a den1oralizing efl'ect.­(New York Evening Siln, Nove1nber 13, 1920.) 
The Boiler1nakers put up a great battle against the Irish, but "the greatest temn in the country" was siinply too good, and the Boilennakers bowed in· defeat before the n1igh ty Catholic aggregaLion. The gmne \Vas exceptionally clean and good sportsn1anship n1arked the co n t e s t throughout. the entire afternoon. ·It is surely no disgrace to be be·aten by such a wonch~rful· aggregation.-(The Purdue Ex~Jonent.) ' 
Fighting to the last, the plucky Ar1ny eleven outplayed but gmne, went· down Lo defeat here today before the fast, pow­erful eleven frmn the University of Notre 
R E.F IE H' o·p 19 2 0 
Dmne, of South Bend, Indiana. The 
final score was Notre Dmne, 27; Anny, 
17. Although· the \Vesterners trailed for three-quarters of the gmne, their power­ful. reserve told in the end· and in the final period they put the quietus on the Army Illen. rhe gmne was \Vi tnessed by a crowd esliinated .at 10,000. The field 
. was in good shape in spite of the recent rains. 
Notre Dmne resorted to forward-pass­ing frequently, Gipp and Kiley figuring in several long · gains through this n1editun. But the \Vesterners outrushed the Cadets in every quarter. lVIohardt and Gipp bored ·through the Anny line ahnost at will. Gipp proved a powerful runner, the like ·or whmn has not been seen. here since the days of Jiin T_horpe, the old Carlisle player. He -\vas pronli­nenl' in every advance of the visitors.­(Frmn the Brooklyn Eagle; October 31.) 
It was a football exhibition well wo'rth going Inany Iniles· to see. . It \Vas a hard contest, ·fought ~\iilh vigor and viin by both sides all the way, but it was also the greatest gmne, hath for attack and de-: fense, \Vhicli. has been: seen in the East this season. The Anny was beaten, but even in defeat it covered itself \vith glory. In the developn1ent .of defense, in all-around effectiveness in both the old and the new football, in sheer bril­liancy, the eleven frmn Indiana, with the scintillating Gipp always in. the van, practically outclassed the Ar1ny. Notre Dmne nuHle twenty first-downs, as against only four of the Ar1ny. · \Ve do not think that any Lemn in th~s country could have won over the temn-fron1 the 
-\Vest as it played here toduy.-(Daniel, in the New Yo'rk I-Ierald.) 
· It was hmne-cmning day at Notre Dmne and the old grads cmne all th~ way frmn l\Hssouri. lVIon ran a, and Pitts­burg for the big day,· the biggest that South Bend has ever seen. The bunch · · iiicluded Louis Sahnon, .John lVIiller, AI Feeney, "Red" lVIiller, Ray Eichenlaub, ·. and Inany other old football stars. Notre Dmne certainly knows ho\v to treat vis­itors. Friday night the student body threw a parade for Purdue, flocked into the Oliver hotel and cheered every nu1n on the Purdue temn individually. Then they called for speeches. Cooley, the big 
Til irly-SezJtm 


T fiE S E· A S 0 1\T ' S 
Purdue gtulrd, who, by the way, played one peach of a gmnc, won the oratorical honors with the following nu1sterpiece, which n1ct with 100 per cent approval frmn both temns: "Fellows," he said, "I don't know which of us \Vill win tmnor­row, but this I do know: both of us arc going to beat the life out of hidiana." Prolonged applause. 
Notrc Dmnc's cheering \Vas splendid. AI Slaggert; ·cheer-leader, was refresh­ingly short on acrobatics, but long in getting the noise of the stands unified. Every Purdue player who left the giune or was injurGd received a cheer. The singing was as good as any heard in· the stale this ycar.-("lVIixed Up Pickups," Indianapolis News, No,'einber 9.) 

COACH ROCKNE 

Notre Dmnc which swmnped the Arn1y toda)r at "\Vest Point could fairly sn1othci· either the Buckeyes or the Ma­roons.-(The Lincoln Slar.). · 
Notre Dmne, if il wins its rc1naining gmnes-and there is every reason to be­lieve it will-should be rated one of the strongest temns in the country. The .. decisive victory that Coach H.ockne's lemn won over "\Vest Point, 27 to 17, stmnps the aggrcgalion as one· of the greatest offensive and defensive powers, and half-back Gipp, of Notre Dmne, as one of the best back-field players in the country.-(Thc Chicago Tribune.) 
Knittc K. Rockne's Notre Dmne eleven, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not 
1 Tlrirll!-Eiallt
li 
·I
l'l
~,
u 
~· 
R E F 1· E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
the greatest football tcmn in the country, buried the fighting Boilcnnakers Satur­day afternoon on Cartier field, before a Hmnecmning crowd of 12,000 people, 28 ·to 0. George Gipp, although he played but two ·quarters of the gmne, stood head and shoulders above any backfield nu1n · on the gridiron. As one of the spectators 
·was heard to say, "it \Vas \Vorth the price of a{hnission to sec Gipp Inake that eighty-yard run."-(By RobertlVIclVIahon, in the Indianapolis Slar, Novcn1ber 8.) 
There are a nu1nber of great players on this year's Notre Dmne eleven. Cap­lain Coughlin, the tackle, is one of the best perforn1crs -in the country, regard­less of the Inany plays sent at the tackles, son1e of which call for the tackle to be boxed, and others to knife hhn out. Coughlin generally 1nanages to upset n1osl plays sent to hhn. Besides Captain Coughlin in the line, Stnith is probably the best guard in the "\Vest. He \Vas a lower of strength a year ago ~1nd is play-:­ing better this season.-("\Vallcr Ecker­snll, in the Chicago Tribune, N oven1ber 28.) 


··.__ 
CAPT. COUGHLIN· 

./ 
They arc saying this year that Notre ·Dmnc has two temns-Georgc Gipp and ten other n1cn. The lithe-liinbcd Hoosier halfba_ck is the Goliath ofa big, shifty, 


T H E S E A S 0 N ' S R. E l' I E H' 0 F . 1 9 2 0 
well-drilled and powerful eleven. If 
there is anything that Gipp can't do on the·football field it isn't discernible to the naked eye. . . . . It is his last year al Notre Dmne and it n1ight be added that· the door lo the .All-An1ericai1 Inythical eleven of 1920 is standing wide open Lo 'the great Hoosier back.-(Dean Sn)rder,
r ! in the Toledo Tinws.) · 
\Vith the final swing into the hmne­slrelch of the football season, those who have been \Valching the pcrfortnances of the various football Lcmns through the schedules they have been . Lucking away 
back in their 1nen1ories the doings of cer­
~ •'
,. 
tain players who will be trotted out lat~r on as n1e1nbers of Lhc n1ythic~1l eleven which is supposed Lo represent the ideal of the gridiron. One chap stood out in the East yesterday who looks like a cer­tainty. That is George Gipp, whon1 we watched on the Plains at \Vest Point run­ning riot for Notre Dmnc against the Artny. There were fe"r of those who saw hiin as the Cadets were routed who did not agree that he is one of the nH)st spectacular and startling players of the year. . . . That Notre Dmne eleven looked about as good as anything that has been seen in the East this. year and il seen1s a pity that it is not schedulc(l'to n1cet Penn Stale or Harvard. . . . The Lcmn has everything necess.ary in its repertoire up to the.Iniiu~te and Saturday it lived up Lo the forn1 it displayed when it cmne here first a few. years ago and opened the· eyes of the Easterners by a dazzling display .of \vhizz-bang aerial tactics. . . . The nmne of Gipp nu1y not have ~1 rmnanlic sound lo it, but its echo ought lo be heard for n1any a day where deeds of the gridiron . arc re­
counted.-(Van Ness, in the New York Evening Telegr(l/11, Novetnber 7.). 
But Lhc. Artny was up against n1ore 
than it could handle-possibly tnore than · ·Harvard, Yale, Princeton, or Pill could have handled-another Penn Stale plus George Gipp. · . . . George Gipp, of Notre· Dmne, a long-legged, .spraddle­legged Kangaroo halfback, steps into the picture as the leading 1920 star. Gipp is the best back we have seen in a long tin1e-another Eddie ·Mahan and every whit as good.-(Granlland Rice, in the 
Ne"~ York Tribune.) 
In the nu1.tlcr of cmning frmn behind Lo win out in football, one of the hardest assigtnnenls in Lhc world of sports, the Notre Dmne eleven seen1s to be in a class by itself. In three of its seven contests with the Artny, it has turned the trick. In 1917 the \Vestcrners won. out late in the gmne. Last year with the score 9 to 0 against then1, the \Vestcrners cmne back in the second half ·\vith a spirited rally and a brilliant aerial attack and won out, 12 to 9. Last Saturday the Ca.dets were leading up Lo the last period, when the Indiana temn uncorked a hard-hil­ling attack Lo win by 10 poinls.-(Grant­lnnd Rice, in the Ne\y York Tribune.) 
Only a gmnc between Ohio Stale and Notre Dmne would convince the Hoosier following that Gipp and his band arc the best in the \Vest.. \Vith no way of set­tling the dispute about the relative ability of Lhe tcmns, it is a Inattcr of opinion and the East favors Notre Dmnc. -(Henry Farrell, in the Sotilh Bend 
Nezvs-Tinws.) 


Tllirtu-Niuc 

T H E S .E A S 0 N ' S R E 1' I E 11' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
Statistics 
List of Men Receiving Monograms Since Rockne Has Been Head Coach. 
Edward Anderson Heartley Anderson Leonard Bahan Norn1an Barry 
Edward Andei·son · Heartley Anderson Arthur Bergrnan Norrnan Barry Leonard Bahan­Joseph Brandy Frank Coughlin 
Edward Anderson Heartley Anderson .Toseph Brandy Norn1an Barry Glen Carberry Frank Coughlin Daniel Coughlin 

HH8-'19 
Glen Crowley ·George Gipp Bernard Kirk 
Frederick Larson 
John Lmnheau 
1919-'20 
Cy DeGree Jmnes Dqoley George Gipp David Hayes Bernard I{irk Roger Kiley Edward lV[adigan 
1920-'21 
Paul Castner Jmnes Dooley Edward De Gree Arthur Garvey George Gipp Donald Grnnl David Hayes Roger Kiley 
Frank Lockard 
· \Villimn lVIohn Raleigh Stein l\'Iaurice S1nilh 
Grover ·Malone \Valter Miller Lawrence Shaw Frederick Slackford lVIaurice S1nilh George Trafton 
Frederick Larson Harry Mehre John Mohardt Robe.rl Phclari Lawrence Shaw . Mauricc Sn1iLh \Villimn Voss 

SCORES OF GAlVIES PLAYED SINCE ROCKNE HAS BEEN HEAD COACH 
Incon1plele on account of "flu" ban. 
N.D. 1918-'19 
26 Case 6 tO \Vabash 7 7 Great Lakes 7 2() Purdue 6 () Nebraska 0 7 Michigan Aggies 13 
N.D. 1919-'20 N.D. 1920-'21 
1L1 Kalmnazoo 0 39 Kalmnazoo 0 . 60 :Mount Union 7 41 \Vestei·n Stale 0 14 ·Nebraska 9 1() Nebraska 7 53 \Vestern Slate 0 28 Valparaiso 3 16 Indiana 3 27 Ar1ny 17 12 \Vest Point n 28 Purdue 0 13 lVlichigan Aggies 0 13 Indiana. 10 33 Purdue· 13 33 Northwestern 7 14 lVIorningside 6 25 l\1ichigan Aggies 0 
Fortu 

t .... 




