Ch ^'^-ji^—*-G" 
Dotre Dame Scholastic 
Dlsee 9V/ASI-SSmpee-ViCTVev/S• • VIVS ^VASI- CRAS-MORlTVRxyS-
VOL. XLV. NOTRB DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 9, 19". No. 12. 
Review of the.Football Season. 

JOHN P. MURPHY, 'l2 , 
Manager of Athletics. 
^Jj^JlTK the opening of oar football season, of 1911 conditions were • not alto­gether roseate. Although the coach's 

call for candidates was forty men, nevertheless, they were, for the most part, inexperienced hope­fuls. Despite this handi­cap the coach set to work and by the time the few old men of last year arrived he had given our enthusiasts cause to predict the successful season that has resulted. 
That the season has been a successful one few will gainsay. Not only have we been suc­cessful in closing our season without a defeat, but we have been success­ful in many other ways. Not the least of these is the fact that Marks has been building up and perfecting a squad that should carry Notre Dame through next season with even .a better record than that of 1909., In the coming year we are for­
 answered by about 

MANAGER JOHN MURPHY such perfect team work who has shown judgment and discretion 
as that exhibited by 


in handling the football situation. * 
tunate in. losing but two men of this year's team. It is indeed true that the loss of these two men will be severely felt, but we have reason to believe, from conditions this year that their places will be well filled. Another success of this season, and one which is^ peculiarly interesting locally, is the fact 
that so many past inter-hall stars have "made 
good" on the Varsity. It is to the interhall 
teams we rightly look for our Varsity material. 
Our season's work has amply demonstrated 
 that the men who "make good" en hall teams 
can also "make good" on the Varsity. The causes for these successes are many, 
but perhaps the most potent is the wcrk of the men who have had to do with the coaching and training of the squad. Coach Marks came to'us well recommended, not only as an indefatigable worker but also as one who would give his men a square deal. He has come up to expectations in both recommendations. He began his^ work by winning the confidence of the squad and retained it throughout the season. Such perfect control had he of his men thjat he was respected and obeyed on all occasions.. . His coaching has received the recognition it deserves throughout the country. The Milwaukee' papers stated that never before had any team displayed 
Notre Dame on Thanks­ giving day. This is surely high praise. To Maris, otff trainer, is also due a consider­able share of the laurels won this season. He has proved to all of us^ how necessary and helpftil a trainer can be. Although the work of a trainer is not so noticeable to the general 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
observer as- that of the Wabash and the the coach, neverthe­Marquette games. At less, it is just as essen­the former he gave tial. The squad this the men a talk between year was the largest halves that sent them in the history of the out on the field again school but despite this, with the determina­there were less injuries, tion that finally won and the men were kept the game. in the best of condi­In the Marquette tion. We have finished game I,uke Kelly our season ^rithout a closed his football ca­serious mishap. reer at Notre Dame. 
Don Hamilton, as­Ever since Luke first sistant coach, was reported for the team another big asset in four years ago he the year's work. Many proved himself a valu­a member of the squad able man. It seems owes his position on though that his past the team to Don's three years were spent cheering words of en­in preparing himself couragement. Were it for this 3'^ear's work. not for the clever work Notre Dame has reg­put up by the second istered some mighty team perhaps our suc­men at the tackle posi­cesses would be greatly tion, but none of them diminished. Another have shown work su­feature of Don's work perior to that of Luke's was the spirit which this year; time and he instilled into the again has he been the men. An instance of cause of preventing a 
TH E COACH 
this was seen at both score made upon us 
who has made an army of friends. 
and of opening up holes in the opposing line to allow us to score. Not only as a player has he made a reputation but also as a captain. He proved himself a valuable aid to Coach Marks in practice and in the game. His natural reticence was forgotten with the sound of the whistle and he fought every inch of ground. It may safely be said that he never lost an opportunity to gain an advantage or to secure a right for his team that he believed belonged to him. 
A feature that deserves especial notice in any review of the seascn is the perfect harmcny that existed in the squad. Ccaches, trainer, captain and men worked together in the mcst friendly relations. Every man seemed to give his best and receive in turn his just due. Another feature that made cur season more enjoyable was the receptions the team received at the hands of our Alumni and friends in 
the different cities we visited. This is especially 
CAPTAIN LUKE KELLY Ass'T COACH HAMILTON 

true of the Alumni of Pittsburg. Our gratitude also 
who played his last game for who talked fight into the Notre Dame Thanksgiving. goes out to all our friends who in any way aided us men between quarters. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
in making this season's work tell. With the prospects of a good team and a good schedule, our next football season should be even n-cre successful. 
This Year's Team. 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13, 
Editor Varsity Athletics. 

The season of 1911 has gone the way of all seasons, and it only remains to say in passing that it has been successful beyond our hopes. W^ile it would have been more satisfactory to be victors over Pittsburg and Marquette, still we were not defeated by either,rival and that affords no small mete of consolation. Coaches, managers and trainer Bert Maris have worked harmoniously for the good of 
TRAINER BERT MARIS to whom is due tbe top notch condition of the, men during the season 

•ASSIST. MGR. WM. COTTER who arranged the basketball and track schedules 
the team. Of the players it may be truly said that each man gave the best he had. 
LUKE KELLY, Captain 
(Tackle). ­

The best player on the team, and one of the best turned out by Notre Dame in recent years. His work in the Pittsburg, Wabash and Marquette games was a fitting exhibition by the leader of the 1911 squad. At breaking through the opposing line, in run­ning down punts and in stopping any play directed at his side of GEORGE PHILBROOK 
x-L^ 1: „ T 1 J whose place •will be difficult 
the line, Luke proved ^ a, „^,t year. 


i8o THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Q
'< 
P
a 
to 
CO Pi <5 > 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8i 
himself so capable as to win a place on the All-State selection by Coach Heze Clarke, and a position on the second AU-Westem team picked by the Chicago Daily News. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK (Tackle). The giant tackle rounded out his football career by an exhibition of play equal in every respect to the showing which won him the All-Western honor two years ago. It was necessary to use him in but two games, Pitts­burg and Marquette, although Coach Marks permitted him to work out in one minor college contest. "Phil" proved a wonder at getting away with forward passes over the line, his height aiding him in obtaining the ball. This is his last year. ToRGUs OAAS (Guard). In a position where merit passes unnoticed, while faults shine with added lustre, Oaas went through the season in the same consistent manner with which he played the first game. Late in arriving at school it required but two days to convince the coach of his right to a position in the line, and until the end there was no change. This is his second year. 
CHARLES E. DORIAS (Quarterback). 

Dorias 'proved himself last year, and his arrival shortly after the opening of the practice season was hailed by the knowing ones as a sign of what was to follow. One of the headiest men on the team his direction of the eleven brought forth all the strength of the squad. The Marquette game gave him the best oppor­tunity of displajring his worth, his tackling . alone preventing certain touchdo\vns. Accurate at forward passes, clever in dodging and a good punter, another year will see Dorias in the running for All-Western quarterback, a position conceded him by many who had the opportunity to compare his work with that of the best Conference men. Tiis is his second 
year on the team. 
CHARLES F . CROWLEY (End). Another second year man who gained even greater glory than was won during his first season at Notre -Dame is Charlie Crowley. Showing unusual speed at going down imder punts, and in smashing up opposing inter­ference, Crowley satisfied football authorities throughout the state of his superiority over all other claimants fcr the All-State position. Cool and determined, his work stampis him 
as one of the best ends seen on the local gridiron in years. Crowley is a junior in law and has another year to play. 
K. RocKNE (End). A fit companion for Crowley and a close rival for All-State honors, Rockne landed the' end position early in the season. Tackling was his strong forte, and in this department he equalled any man on the team. Although one of the lightest men on the squad—^he weighs but 156 pounds—^no opponent was too fierce nor any interference too strong to deter his smashing plunges. This is his first year. RAY EICHENLAUB (Fullback). The heaviest man on the team, the best punter and the most consistent line plunger, a first-year man who upset all traditions by taking a place at the opening of the season and holding it without fear of loss until the end, "Eich" was one of the finds of the season. Carrying 195' pounds of brawn he made himself feared in every contest in which the gold and blue engaged. This is his first year, but it 
proved him one of the stars, and he should be invaluable during the coming seasons. 
A. BERGER (Halfback). 

"Heinie" combines the .speed of a track star with the beef of an ideal gridiron hero. Discovered by "Don" Hamilton he demon­strated early in the season that the eulogies of the ex-Varsity quarterback were not based on mythical viitues. A lo second man, and weighing 185 pounds, Berger showed up well around the ends as well as through the line. This, is his first year on the eleven. 
E. J. HARVAT (Guard). Built close to the ground and carrying no superfluous fat, Harvat is one of the most deceiving men on the eleven. Under the coaching of the captain he developed into a splendid guard, his 188 potmds providing an impenetrable defense, while his work on oflfense ranked him with the regulars early in the season. "Speedy" won interhall honors for Brownson two years ago, but this is his maiden eflFcrt in college football. He will be back next year. ALBERT FEENEY (Center). Feeney put in his first year on the team this fall and played a strong, consistent game. His work at Wabash was sensational and: drew 
favorable comments from several scribes in the selection of the All-State team. Coach 

I82 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Marks tried him out at guard early in the 
season, but his accurate passing made him 
preferable for center. He is a junior lawyer 
and will be back next year. 
JOSEPH PUSKA (Halfback). 
• Backfield material seemed at a discount early, in the season because of the amount of it, but the value of a good thing can never be destroyed. Pliska was a man whose value increased as time went on. Line plunging was his forte, and his showing in the three big games places him on a par with the best of his mates. This is his first year of college football. 
WILLIAM KELLEHER (Halfback). One of the most reliable substitutes on tibie squad, and the only man sent into the Mar­quette game after the beginning of play, " Bill" is gameness personified. A sure tackier, a fair punter, one of the best defensive players in the backfield, and a marvel at squirming through the line, he has made an enviable record in his first year at Notre Dame. Bill played his prep football at Columbia Academy Portland, Oregon. ,K. JONES (Fullback, Center). Jones was a victim of an unfortunate state of affairs. Possessing ability which would easily have earned him a regular place tmder ordinary circumstances, he was prevented from landing a regular berth by the prowess of heavier men. His defensive work ,in the Pittsburg game was one of the really good things of the season. ALFRED BERGMAN (Halfback). The fastest man on the team, wfiose. record 

The All-Hall 
of yardage gained by him alone almost equals 
the total gains of the balance of the team for 
the entire season. Bergman went as far as 
the law allowed in one of the minor games when 
he received the baU back of the goal posts and 
carried it the length of the field for a touchdown. 
His dodging was stellar, but his lack of weight 
worked against him toward the end of the 
season. 
Yund and Larson in the line, McGinnis and Dolan on the ends, Lee at quarterback and Mc­Grath at fullback furnished a group of sub­stitutes whose playing; was but little below that of the regulars. McGrath was unfortunate in that a wrenched neck-kept him out of the game for nearly two weeks and the.handicap prevented him from doing his: best. He took part in the Pittsburg battle, and played a fine defensive game. 
One would like to mention every member of the squad since every member of the squad has a share in the glory of those who made the Varsity. But a limited space is allotted me, and those whom I can not mention individually may well rest satisfied with the place they hold in. the hearts of every loyal rooter. 
The mention of " rooter" recalls to mind those who played our games from the side-lines. This year the organization of the students' rooting assodation had the effect of. quicken­ing enthusiasm at the home contests. Let the organization continue by all means. I think I. have mentioned them all—players, subs, the whole squad, the rooters. Yes, I have mentioned them all, for. the coaches and managers are not'in my province: 
 Selection. 

DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 {AssH VoTsity Coock). 
FIRST TEAM. SECOND TEAM.,-\ 
Carmody. (Corby), left end; ^ • -Baujah (Walsh), ; left end; ' . '. 
Bartd (St. Joseph), left tackle; Slmiighnjcssy (Walsh),- left. tsicJde; ^ ^ 
Dunphy (Brownson), left guard; f Dew (Browison), ;-:l^t.:~g|iiard; . . ; -
Heyr (Corby), oenter; O'Brien. (St/ J«se0i), cdit^;^^^;: / 
Hicks (St. Joseph), right guard; ^ Fowler ::(Btowrisan),;'n^t• :gu^ ; : 
McDonald (Corby), right:,tackie; ~,; Kbbiiiisoii V (StC- Joseph),5ng^t|fe 
H. Newning (Walsh), ^ri^tiend; .c;^ ^ Mc^dipl: (Wjalsh)v captain,'quarter:4b^ ?Lyan XBro^nMSoy^./^^ Guishu^t (Corby), left: l«d^-l>ack; v ^: ^Ka^;q^iJJ«Dy^^^ 
:Malcmey (St.? Joseph), rightihalf^^^ Howard (St: Joseph) .fifll-b ^ WiiUams:!^l(Brpw^^ i f" .v^; 
-%'o<--^t?. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
183 

Never before has interhall athletics lirought remarkable thing about Corby's success this forth such keen competition and good-natured year is the fact that Father Farley's "Braves" rivalry among the students residing in the I won the bunting without crossing their op­different' halls as has this past football season. -ponents' goal line once, and by scoring only 
Such interest speaks well for the future Varisity; teams, as many points have been learned this fall by the younger men which will help them in the years to come. May the rest of: the school year bring forth the same honest rivalry that has been shown in the football season just past. 
Following a time-honored custom of selecting an all-hall eleven at the end of each football season, the time is now at hand to honor die players who have done the best and most consistent playing dming the intef-hall series.; The men selected for this honorary team-have been picked not because of their playing in one contest, but "the selection is based on the performances of the players in all the struggles after a careful and thorough review of their efforts by the different coaches. 
Picking an all-hall eleven is, beset with difficulties, as some of the men, who, ho doubt, would have made this mythical eleven, were barred during the season by the faculty board. I might mention for instance Elwood of Brown-son and Mehlem and Finnegan of' Corby. 
While there always is a difference of opinion in these selections, they must be:made without prejudice, and the work of ieach player must, be considered carefully. The hard, effective checking, boxing of opponents, ability to size^ up quickly the opposing team's method ' of attack, varying of charges by the liuemen/i the power and drive of the backs,, and maihy other points, have been considered in selecting the personnel of this eleven. The meti^cMl pur-.­sued in choosing the team ' was; asr follows: Bach coach chose, a first and second -teamVT with a captain.for each--eiinunating'fr6m his choice all membors of.his own squad: Thai, the choice fdl to the man. rec^ying the highest number of votes. Members of the Sorhi: hall-squad were not included xa.the candidate's for the ^ all-hall team be<^use of the ;fact tiiat they did not finish' the season, and thus.fafled to show their ability. ;•.; ^ 

nine points—a drop kick each by Hebner and McDonald, and a place kick by Dotiovan. Yet credit .must be given to the Corby team for its pluck and determination in rallying and coming back strong after its most valuable moi had been barred by the faculty boa^d. . To Mike Carmody of Corby goes the position of left end'^because of his tmdisputed, brilliant work from the start of the season. ;^ He is . aggressive, and brainy, and is a splendid man going down the field under kicks. He i& cool and collected, a hard and sharp tackier, .and in addition,'he is an adept.at handling forward passes and in boxing his tackle. Baujan of Walsh, and Mike's running mate, Donovan, are both veiy clever, and very fast, but are slightly inferior/to Carmody and Harry Newning, and>so"^have been placed on the second team. 
At left tackle w»U be found Bartel of St. Joseph's ball. He is an extremely hard man to box, because-of his aggressiveness and shifti­ness; an excellent man to giet behind his oppo­nents' line to block kicks or forwafd passes, or to get an opposing runner before he had started; and going down the field he was very 

; fast: In Addition, he was a good man to open holes in the opposing line. This comlMnatipn of qiidlities-wonhun his coveted position. ­-Duhphy. of Brownson is given the position of left guard, and although he played an ex­ceedingly, good game at half, the abundance of backsand the dearth of linemen caused the coaches to: select' Dunphy as guard. He is 
^ not new; to this position, as he has played the Une before. Dunphy is big, strong, ..fast; :^tid is an excellent defensive man who caii e^ily hold up his end of the battie. He has ^also the drive; and push necesssuy to a good lin^nan, and is a safe niiEai; to have by the side of the snapper-back.. Tieniey, Dinnen,. O'Rouirke and Dew iuie also .^>od -guards, but lack the requisite aiap. and dai^.'. 
•,.•_..Captain Heyl',of Cwby is chosen centi^ on this mythical devoi; ^od^he justly desorycs 
mmm 
The Corby ha^^ team again won ^ the flag,:\the placel His psaamg^^ vhi^ been^^^^^^^ going througli the s^uson "mt^^ a' loss and reprqadi; ..and htiyfaslA.ta^^tasax retaining a p«fedt; ayierage of 1000. True,-- dqWn the fidd under' ldcfe^-*H4?;wa^ tiie Brownson hoys j^tiedothem. 37^3, butSme : at^full during part of tife^SfcvJ^o^^ VBrownies". lost. tbXthe; Walsh squad; .Whic^^^ >£^Bme; :and he'did exceedingly:lt^^ m turn }was: diEl[€^t«d.;by;^e^^^^^ iButt Mart's bestX • asset .:as. ;7a> 
, ;-^m&fS:-s; 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i84 
• tc 
C 
< 
o 
< 
W 
.J 
a 
P9 O 
o 

Ivv­
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
was his defensive ability. Playing a loose 
center, he figured in practically every play, 
and his hard and deadly tackling contributed' 
largely to Corby's success in going through the 
season \\ithout a defeat. Hence Heyl is the 
choice for the pivotal position. O'Brien of 
St. Joseph and White of Walsh played well, 
but after due consideration, the choice fell 
to Heyl. 
Bill Hicks of St Joseph hall is the pick 

for right guard, and is the best lineman in 
school, as well as being the fastest charging 
fonvard among the hall ir.en. At times his 
eagerness cost his team a few yards, but Bill's 
defensive and ofi"ensive work more than offset 
this fault. Full of fight, brainy, and possessed 
of an ability to follow the ball. Hicks is certainly 
worthy of being in the line-up. 
On the side cf the line opposite to Bartel, 

Joe McDonald has been selected to play right 
tackle. Joe is an excellent (defensive man 
who tackles hard and low. His best asset is 
his kicking ability, being good at either punting, 
drop kicking or placement. He opens holes 
very well for his backs, and is fair at throwing 
a forward j>ass. He won the championship 
for his team by his toe-work, and is properly 
entitled to the place. Other good tackles are 
Robinson of St. Joseph's who is a hard 
-vorker all the time, Shaughnessy of Walsh 
and Fowler of Brownson. 
The position of right end goes to Captain Harry Newning of Walsh. He is, without a doubt, the best end on the hall teams. Silent and reserved, Harry "delivered the goods." He is a clean, hard and consistent player. His speed and ability to judge punts enabled him many times to drop the opposing backs in their tracks. Harry tackled low and hard, and often got his man for a loss. • He was a very clever man also in receiving forward passes and blocking his tackle or end. 
Dan McNichol of Walsh is easily the best quarter-back in interhall circles this year. No one is near him in ability to run a team. To McNichol may be attributed a very large part of the success of the Walsh team. He was a bundle of nerve; fast, brainy, an excellent forward passer^—one who knew how, Avhen and where to pass the ball—and quick to size up opponents' defense. In open field-running, too, McNichol outclassed any man in the halls; and his'magnificent and thrilling run of 115 yards froin behind his own goal for a toudidown showed that he has nerve, pluck and brains 
enough to run our mythical, all-hall eleven. 
He is a grand defensive player, 'and no one 
backed up his line more brilliantly than did 
"Fish." Then, too, he is a fair kicker. With 
McDonald doing the punting, drop and place 
kicking, and -McNichol booting on-side kicks, 
the all-hall eleven would be well fortified in 
the toe department. And because of Dan's 
sterling qualities as a "footballer" in every 
respect, fie has been selected as captain of this 
eleven, and no one doubts that he will 
fill the bill in an acceptable manner. 
Ryan of Brownson and Kane of St. Joseph's 

were both excellent men, but the unusual 
ability of McNichol made it impossible for these 
men to place. 
Gushurst, the gritty, speedy, plunging half­

back froin Corby, is awarded the left half-back 
position. Besides being a powerful line bucker, 
he can drive off tackle in a dashing way that 
is certain to result in a substantial gain. -On 
defense he is equally strong, and being an earnest, 
hard-working fellow, is the logical choice. 
Harvat of Walsh, Williams and Nowers of 
Brownson, and Bensberg and Soisson of Corby 
are all good men, but our choice is limited. 
"Buck" Maloney of St. Joseph is chosen 
as Gushurst's running mate, and he can easily 
fill the bill. He is probably the best half-back 
of the year .in carrying the ball on end runs, 
and as an open-field runner ranks with the best 
of the other hall men. He is a good defensive, 
man with speed and weight, and is an excellent 
man in returning punts. Maloney is a good 
interceptor of forward passes, and in interfering 
for his team-mates he has few equals. 
Howard of St. Joseph is the best full-bgck of the season. He was handicapped by sick­ness the early part of the season, and was thus unable to show to his best advantage. Possess­ing weight, speed, and plunging ability, "Del" was an exceedingly hard man to stop. He is a veritable battering-ram, and is the best man for the position he won. On defense ,he is a tower of strength, tackling hard, intercept-' irig forward passed nicely, and running inter­ference in a valuable manner. 
There were" many other good half-backs as well as other good linemen and ends, biit they all can not be placed on the first team,.so li second team is named also, on wludi Dcmovan, Ryan, and' Kane would do the kicking and forward passing. 
i86 -THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Kail Matter 
Pablished evety Saturday during the School Term at th9 University of Notre Dame 
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid 

Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic 
Sotre Dame, Indiana 
Vol. XLV. December 9, 1911. ' No. 12. Board of Editors. 
JOHN  P. MURPHY,  'l 2  EDWARD  J. HOW.\RD,  'l 2  
PATRICK  A. B.'^RRY,  ' I 2  RUSSELL  G.  FINN,  'l 2  
CYRIL  J. CURR.^N,  'l 2  WILLIAM  J. MILROY,  '1 3  
SIMON  E. TWINING,  '1 3  JOHN  F. O'CONNELL,  '1 3  
LOUIS  J.  KILEY,  '1 3  M.\URICE  NORCKAUER,  '14  

—^The SCHOLASTIC'S editorial on the proper way to pronounce the name of our University has attracted considerable attention from the press. After quoting what we had to say 
about variant pronunciations, The Press on for example, the editor of the Our Name. A^ew World says: 
"Now the editor of the New World has given much time and thought to orthoepy, and pronounces Notre Dame—one of the best equipped and most up-to-date CathoUc universities in America. As long as it holds this enviable position we don't suppose that its popular and energetic President cares where the accent falls." 
—The football season which came to a dose Thanksgiving day has been remarkable in many respects. A new team, new coaches, new managers faced the The Pull-Together new problems which are Spirit peculiar to every, year. Yet not in our athletic history have the new and untried worked to­gether so harmoniously. The men who coached and the men who managed,and the men who played exemplified in a remarkable way the strength-in-unity, the pull-together spirit, or any other saw that will convey the notion of cohesive effort. The coaches kept a large squad continually on the jump, till the very last whistle sounded out the iend of the season. 

There was no dearth of players, hence no man was sure of his position. For all that, into the competition for places no ill-feeling or bitter­ness entered. No one doubts that Marks, and Hamilton, who assisted him, taught the team of 1911 a great deal about football; and next year when practically the same team takes up the game no one will fail to credit this knowledge to these tvvo men. 
Of the team itself the students and alumni of this school are very proud. ;The players showed the clean, square, hard fight character­istic of Notre Dame. They had no bad names to call opponents, no disagreeable after stories of mistreatment. Two—Philbrook and Kelly— played their last game in Milwaukee Thanks­giving. Their going will mean the last of the g^eat team of '09. We Avill miss them, the last of that gallant band, of whom one, we hope, is home with God. 
Managers Murphy and Cotter are faithful workers who may be trusted to handle difficult situations that arise in their positions with tact and judgment. They have already proved by their good services that they are worthy of the high trust placed upon them. 
—^The SCHOLASTIC does not know what are the purposes of the athletic boards of either Notre Dame or Marquette about a football game next year. It speaks for itself, 
therefore, and not for A Ghost in flie Attic them. It hopes that 
neither institution will decide to discontinue the annual football game which has quickened so much wholesome rivalry between the two schools. Both schools should know by this time—and probably do know—^that the mid-west universities have built up an athletic trust of which they are not, and may not be, members. Educationally, athletically, ethically, no good reason can be given why they should be discriminated against. It is un-American and suggests the presence of a ghost in the attic we had thought banished. 
All this, we are well aware, will not change the minds of those who govern athletics in the tmiversities of the mid-West. But it should bind Notre Dame and the Milwaukee school closer together athletically; it should set them to formulating set rules and policies for the direction of their athletic relations. It should imify thein, and make the fight against the discriminatiqn more ..^bearable. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
President's Day Festivities. 
CHURCH SERVICES. The day on which we elected to honor ^our President showed due appreciation for the distinction conferred; for Wednesday came in with a blue sky and a sun that June might be proud of. Thanks to Wednesday; we will remember the day for next year. At eight o'clock Rev. Father Cavanaugh sang the traditional solemn high mass of the day in the Sacred Heart Chinch, assisted by the Vice-president, Father Walsh, and by Father Schumacher, director of studies. The Very Rev. Father Provincial and a number of the local clergy were present in the sanctuary The seminarians' choir rendered a very creditable musical program, the Offertory selection and the solo, Veni Jesu, being particularly good. MILITARY INSPECTION. At ten o'clock in the gymnasium the Pres­ident and the officers of the University, accom­panied by Captain Stogsdall, instructor in Military Science and Tactics, and his staff, inspected the battalion. The student soldiers in their gray uniforms presented a splendid appearance. It was especially gratifying to notice the military bearing of the company coipposed of the elder Carroll hall boys. The President expressed himself as very much pleased with the showing of the companies. The band, which is fully equal to that of last year, played a nmnber of excellent pieces during the inspection. . DINNER AT NOON. President's day without an appropriate dinner would lose no little of its charm for the under­graduate. The chicken days are marked \vith red numerals in his calendar. There was no disappointment in store for him this time, either. It was a typical Notre Dame banquet, with the addition of excellent music. The University orchestra under Prof. Petersen's direction carried out its part of the program veiy satisfactorily. In the Brownson refectory the President's table and those near it were reserved for the faculty and visitors. Of the latter there were many, some of whom had come from great distances. The following were among the guests: Judge Anderson, Rev. Dean O'Brien, Rev. John Guendling, Dr. Dinnen, Mr. C. H. Fosset, Mr. Marvin Campbell, Mr. J.. Stude-. 

baker, Mr. D. Gulfoyle, Rear Admiral Dayton, Mr. Charles A. Carlisle, Hon.-Charles L. Goetz, Rev. John DeGroote, Mr. P. O'Brien, Mr. Joseph Sullivan, Mr. V. Jones, Mr. F. H. Wurzer, Mr. William Moore, Mr. William A. Mclnemey, Rev. John Wall, Dr. Stoekley, Mr. F. L. Suns, Dr. Sensenick, Mr. Frank Minphy, Mr. Max Adler, Rev. Father Schramm, Mr. O. Bastian, Dr. Ohiey, Dr. Lucas, Mr. T. M. Hoban, Rev. Father Welsh, Rev. Father Martin, Mr. William O'Neil, Mr. T. Harley, Mr. S. Adler, Dr. Berteling, ]\Ir. George Senrich, Dr. Powers, Mr. J. A. Wood, Rev^ Father Regan, C. S. P., Mr. John Weber, Mr. W. D. O'Brien, and Rev. Dr. John P. Thillmann. 
ADDRESS AND RESPONSE. 

The largest President's day audience in some years assembled in Washington hall to witness the presentation of "The Redemption of Jimmy Anson." Previous to the play the following address of greeting was delivered by Russell Finn, president of the senior class: 
That institution which represents to man his own well-being which lives for him and identifies itself with his existence, demands unswerving fidelity' to its ideals. For this reason, that loyalty is engen­dered which finds expression in the heart of a student. Not alone with the fleeting impulse of enthusiasm, but with a purer inspiration of genuine affection does the college man embrace the ideals of his Alma Mater. The love which a man bears with him when he forsakes the tender graces of his college life is a love which will never die, against which the destructive hand of time can never prevail. The love of a student for his college is that which h* bears his native land, partaking of the unselfish devotion of patriotism, for the college- has granted him a full realization of all that is good for him in Ufe. It has opened to him a vista of righteousness and shown him the power of noble achievement. It is there that his hopes have been conceived, there fostered, and thence he goes, dad in the tempered armour of his training to combat and to conquer. 
The man who loves his country loves his home, loves all that is good and is a true man. The loyalty which springs from the heart of such a man is the rarest beauty in all natitre. Because the nation represents to man the parent and protector of all that he possesses, his home, his- love, his liberty and.^ Ms-very life, he is willing to bleed and die for its honor. 
It is with this strong feeling that men commemorate the glorious achievements of a nation and pay tribute, to the memory of those heroes whose sacrifices have lived to' bless the prosperity' of a later day. This same feeling leads the Faculty and students of Notre' Dame to celebrate the glories of the past and, to dg­nahze the triumphs of the present. ­
Wonder, affection, gratitude, possess oar; sbnis-. when we look back upon those men who nearly'seventy 
i88 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
years ago, through toils and hardships, which only the courage of a saintly heart could endure, brought forth in the hostile wilderness of a new country our Alma Mater. 
To the men of the past we submit the immortal tablets of memory. There is imprinted a story which can not be transmuted, which lies beyond expression, the story of how through years of constant care they nursed the infant mission, of how it grew under their guidance, developed into a college and bloomed at last into the great University which is ours today. Self-sacrifice with no earthly remuneration, un­brolen conformity to the divine principles and in­defatigable zeal for the attainment of sacred ideals are the foundations upon which they have erected this temple of culture and morality. 
To the men of the present, those whom we know from personal experience, whose benevolence and virtue we are made to feel in every day of our college life, who smile with approbation upon our every effort and help us with paternal regard in every difficulty, to them we express the deepest gratitude. Though the debt can never be discharged, we shall strive in sweet remembrance of their unselfish atten­tion, and tender solicitude to repay with lives true to their ideals the sacrifices they have made for us. Not only have they been our professors, not alone advisors and instructors, they have been our sym­pathetic and friendly companions. The cheering smile, the helping hand and familiar words of the President are always eager to encourage and make glad those who approach him. There is 
no student among us but has felt the beauty of his fine character, but has been inspired by his noble example. Even the incessant stream of routine work and the numberless duties that press upon him are turned to the students' advantage, for the good will of Father Cavanaugh and his paternal interest have always been awaiting those who seek hint. Though it is beyond us to pay proper tribute to his character, we can and do pledge him our affection and the University through him our everlasting loyalty, thankifig God that such a man has been 
. given Notre Dame. 
Today, Father Cavanaugh, the University is as­sembled to celebrate the sixth anniversary of your presidency and to congratulate you upon the success and blessings that have attended your administration. If words of praise could be so expressed as to convey their real significance it \A buld then be possible for us to phrase our thought. Our gratitude is our affection, our praise the expression of our loyalty. When this day shall have passed and been numbered among those of the long ago, the pledges we now make will remain fresh in our memory of Alma'Hater. We thank you. Father Cavanaugh, for the blessings you have brought us; we congratulate you upon the . success you have attained and pray that the favor 
of God may smile upon your noble work granting'you the full measure of your reward.. 
In reply Father Cavanaugh thanked idl who had taken part in the evehits offthe day, and in a few stirring and inspiring words lauded the work of his predecessors, . their ^ ^mtiring 
zeal and sdf-sacrifice. The President spoke 
with feeling of the present Faculty, and con­
gratulated them on the successes they have 
achieved for the educational growth of the 
University. He ended by presenting to all 
a vision of the future Notre Dame, gfreater and 
more influential than even today, but cherishing 
and teaching the same noble ideals. 
THE PLAY. 
Of the play one may speak with very little 

of qualifying phrase. The drama itself pre­
sented a good moral, not a preachy moral, to 
be sure, but a good, everyday lesson of struggle 
against temptation and final tritunph. There 
was plot enough to make the story interesting, 
humor enough of the quiet kind to vary light 
with shade—^but a subdued light all the way. 
The actors do not need to throw themselves 

on the mercy of the critic, for they are saved 
by virtue of their own good works.' This 
makes it all the more pleasant for the critic, 
since, let the cynic smile as he will, it is much 
more agreeable to praise than to blame. 
Mr. McGarry as the prison warden was natural, which is the sum and substance of the actor's art. He was a hard, cold man, fitted to his life—a life in which every man is weighed in the balance with all his crimes and sins on the opposite scale. Mr. Hicks as Doyle, the detective, grew on you as the play progressed. He was especially effective in the duel of establishing identity against "Jimmy" and also in the final scene. Mr. Dockweiler was re­served and dignified, and played his role very acceptably. Messrs. Milroy and Galvin, the two pals in wa3^ that are wild, did some clever act­ing at times. Perhaps they made too many gestures, perhaps they were just a trifle too near the conventionial stage "bad"men. But a trifle is -nothing in them who put such vim and movement into their parts. Mr. Daly's German accent might be improved, but again that is a detail which should not be 
too mudi emphasized in view of Mr. Daly's general presentatiim. The hero as handled by Mr. Lynch did not suffer. "Jimmy" may weli be satisfied with Mr. Lynch's reading, which was sincere; and at times strikingly dose to the edge of emotion;. Mr. Finn as Lieutenant Governor Fay played the part with quiet dignity. 
The Iadies>r-ah, yes, the ladies. Here we must be cautious. Ifr.^Twinihig presented a Mrs. Webster th»t made the ladies in. the 
audience suspect we had kidnapped some of the queens from our neighboring school. The lady was Mr. Twining, however, for we saw him before the paints were applied. Mrs. Moore had some trouble with her hat, but hat or no hat she was a lovely little person. We thank Mr. Cox for introducing us. Mr. Birder was calm and serious and gave us a very charming Rose Lane. Perhaps a little more spirit, a little more action, a trifle more of nervous movement would add to Cecil's reading. Mr. Cotter as Smith did not have a part for the development of personality, but he showed in the ladies of the Gate of Hope and Dick the Rat, et alii, with a fine flourish. And then the others, Messrs. Lenihan, Williams, Clark, Robins—^they all showed the effect of careful training; and those two youngsters, Johnny Holden and Lauren Loker, were the sharpest and cleverest performers one could wish to see. 
Father Maloney has done well in his reading of the "Reformation of Jimmy Anson." He worked marvels with his student cast^ as the smoothness of the whole performance fully testified. He has our thanks for the pleasure of the evening. He can fill the house at any future time. 
The stage setting was built here at home, and surely the home manufacture may well be patronized. There were four complete scenes, dnd every one of them showed taste in design and care and construction. Bro. Cyprian and his stage-hands share in our thanks and woids of congratulation. Prof. Petersen was in evidence with an exceptionally good orchestra and added his part to the smoothness of the performance. 
Yes, President's day was remarkable for bright sky and sun, joyous company, and a splendid play. May we have many such. 
THE CAST. 

Warden Handler William Everett McGanry Smith! William Edward Cotter Blickecsdolfenbach Hugh James Daly. Boyle William Joseph Hicks Bill Avery William Joseph Milroy Mrs. Webster .Simon Ercile Twining Mrs. Moore Louis Charles Cox Lieutenant Governor Fay Russell Gregory Finn Rose Lane Cecil Edward Birder Blinky Davis Emmett George Lenihan Dick the jiat .William Joseph Williams Jimmy Anson George Alfred Lynch Spike Flannigan............William Michael Galvih Mi-. Lane. Thomas John Dockwdler Messenger I .George Walker Clarke 


Bobby John Shedd Holden 
• Kitty Lauren Ferguson Loker Clerk of the Bank James Vermont Robins 
PROGRAM EV ORCHSSTRA. Selection—"TheTop o' the World," Klein and Caldwell Selection—"The Beauty Spot" DeKoven Selection—"The Broken Idol" Van Alstyne March Selected 
St Edward's Hall Cdebratioii. 

On Tuesday the boys of St. Edward's hall had their own day and celebration for the President. The exercises consisted of solemn high mass in the beautiful new Holy Family chapel at 8 o'clock. Father Cavanaugh was the celebrant, assisted by Father Sdiumadier as deacon sctiA Father T. E. Btn-ke. as sub-deacon. The hall choir had special music for the occasion. 
In the assembly room after mass, Newman Wittenberg read a brief address to Father Cavanaugh that conveyed to the President the feelings of loyalty and high regard which the St. Edward's hall boys have for him^ The President responded and in plain, direct language told the lads many useful and inter­esting things, for whicli he was heartly applauded at the close. The study-hall was decorated with flags, college colors and rich potted plants, which added to the ordinarily neat appearance of the room. 
Brownson Entertainment and Smoker. 

Tuesday evening the students of Brownson Hall gave their annual entertainment in honor of the President and faculty of the University. The program consisted of the following numbers: " Darling Nellie Gray" by Brownson <5lee Club; "An Interesting Trilogy" by J. Clovis Smith; "The Ballad of the Tempest" by Jeremiah McCarthy; Selection by Orchestra; " Kelly's Dream" by George Clark; "Canon Sheehan's Masterpiece" by Raymond Walsh; Selection by Orchestra; "Our American Cardinals" by James Robins; vocal solo by James Wasson; "The Phantom Congregation" by Brother Alphonsus, C. S. C ; "Come Where the River Winds" by Brownson Glee Club; address and presentation of flowers to Father Cavsmai^ by M. Emmet Walter; closing remarks ^by the Reverend President of the Universi^. ;, \ 
After the entertainment a smoker wivsli^^ in one of the dining;-rooms. When, eiich mie 
had been served with refreshments, after-dinner speeches were in order. Mr. M. Emmet Walter acted as toastmaster and called on the following for m t and humor: Fathers Burke Bolger, Hagert}'^, Carrico; Brothers Alphonsus and Hugh; Messrs. Derrick, Vaughan, Mann, Marshall, Robins, Viso, Ely, Emerson, Burns, Krug and Gillis. 
Dr. Banks on Persia. 
Dr. Banks delivered a lecture last Saturday'" 

• on Persia, maintaining the standard set by his talk on Egypt the previous week. In obtaining \'iews of Persia, however, the pro­fessor and his party labored under difficulties arising from the nature of the strict govern­ment regulations concerning photographing and excavating. He succeeded, in spite of the unfavorable circumstances, in obtaining some \eiy interesting pictures of the public buildings, temples and ruins. In the course of the lecture Dr. Banks explained many of the customs of the people and their religious practices which, though in some instances, resembling those of other Eastern countries, in others are widely 
different.  The  lecture  this  week  will  be  on  
India.  
m»m  
Knights  of  Columbus  Elections.  

At a meeting of the local council of the K of C. last Wednesday evening the following ofl&cers were elected for the coming year. Grand Knight, Professor James F. Hines; Deputy Grand Knight, James E. Sanford; Treasurer, James F. O'Brien; Financial Sec­retar}^ Earl S. Dickens; Recording Secretary, Edward J. Howard; Chancellor, Henry J. Kuhle> Jr.; Advocate, William P. Downing; Warden, Leo J. Condon; Inside Guard, Julius Meuninck; Outside Guard, Fabian N.Johnston. The officers will be formally installed by District Deputy Weber of South Bend at the first meeting in January. 
o*^ 
Sodetjr Notes. 

ARCHITECTURAL CLUB. The regular meeting of the dub was held MondaLy evening. President Kaiser called the meeting to order, and explained to the niembers that owing to some misunderstanding only one-paper was prepared to be read; Mr. H. 
Munger read a resume of the articles contained in the Architectural Magazines of the past-month. He treated his subject in a pleasing manner, quoting from articles written by prominent architects of the present day. After the usual criticism and discussion of the paper, the members indulged in social conversation. It was agreed to hold the next meeting of the club.Sunday evening, Dec. 17th, at the Haney Hotel. 
CIVIL ENGINEERING. -' 

The Civil Engineering Society held its eighth regular weekly meeting on Tuesday night, December 5. "Hydrographic Surveying" was treated by Mr. Marcille in an interesting and instructive paper. Hydrograhic surveys are observations taken about, and on, bodies of water, for the purpose of determining the character of the bottoiri, the depth, the rate of flow in the case of rivers, etc. Hydro-graphic surveys are of importance in the location of harbors, in the building of bridge piers or river beds, "and,in numerous other ways. Mr. Gonzales told how to find the meridian, that is, a true north and south line, in a paper on the "Determination of the Meridian." Thii can be done in several ways. A crude way to-find the meridian is by the use of the surveyor's compass, finding first magnetic north and applying a small angular correction which is necessary because of the non-coincidence of magnetic north . with true north. Obser­vations on stars particularly upon Polaris, the north star, give more accurate results than the aforementioned method, while, a still more accurate method is the use of the sun as a medium. Mr. Madden gave two all-important considerations as arguments in favor of . the existence of large-drainage systems, in a paper on the "Benefits of Drainage."^ These are the reclamation of otherwise value­less lands, and the preservation of the public health through the removal of cev.erage. A gen eral discussion concerning the weights of bodies in the atmosphere relative to their weights in a vacuum followed, with Mr. Bracho and Mr. Kirk the central figures. This • discussion was unusually interesting. /. 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. The Engineering; Society, of the University held its first meeting Friday evening, December^ first, with fiftyrtwo inembers present. '. The Society was organised for the comng year with 
V~^ 'i^yi-:<' 

the following officers: president, L.' F. Garrity; vice-president, L. J. Condon; secretary and treasurer, W. J. Maguire; sergeant-at-arms, 
F. N. Countiss; honorary president. Prof. J. 
J. Greene. 
New constitution and by-laws were adopted. It was decided to hold meetings on second and fourth Fridays of each month at which not less than two papers are to be read. Arrange­ments are being made for securing speakers from South Bend and elsewhere to address the Society on engineering subjects. Several trips to nearby plants will be made this spring. Prof. Greene gave a short talk in which he pointed out some benefits to be derived from well prepared papers on subjects of interest to engineers in after life. Deans of the engi­neering schools will act as a board of critics for the coming, year. 
Personals. 

—Leo D. Hamerski (C. E. '09) successfully underwent an operation recently and is quickly recovering. 
—Otto B. Levanger, a former student of the University, is engaged in business in Christiania, Sweden. Some of the older stu­dents and alumni will remember him: 

-^Charles A. Baer (student 'o5-'o6) is a member of the firm of the Dalles Dressed Meat Company. His address is The Dalles, Oregon. We congratulate Mr. Baer on the notable success he has attained since leaving school. 
—^A belated card announces the marriage cf Michael A. Diskin (LL. B. '07) and Miss Florence Dinegan at Goldfield, Nevada, Nov. 25th. Rice and the other customary atten­tions may be delivered after the first cf January when Mr. and Mrs. Diskin will be at home in Gcldfield, Nevada. Cordial con­gratulations. 
-«•»­
' Local News. 
—Father Hagerty and Mr. O'Hara recently organized an athletic association in Carroll Hall. 
—A meeting of the boys in Carroll hall held last Monday evening resulted in the enlistment of about forty in the Daily Communion League. The Director looks forward to the time when every boy in the hall will be an active member. 

^-The Walsh Chicks were defeated by the CaiToUites, 16-5 in a basketball contest Tuesday. The game was too one-sided to be even-interesting. 
—^Walter and Edward Jacobs, of Brovmson and Carroll, were called to their home in Shreves­port, Louisiana, last Wednesday by the serious illness of their sister. 
—^Brownson hall football team, which the good people of Adrian were beguiled into con-, sidering the Varsity second, lost to Adrian college 36 to o Thanksgiving. 
—The social program for the year of 1911 

"will open next Wednesday evening when the Sophomore class will give its annual dance. Extensive preparations have been under way for the last few weeks, and the boys of '14 evidently expect to outdo all previous events of its kind. 
—Since the opening of school, nearly all of the men in St. Joseph hall have made it a practice to receive Holy Communion every Sunday, at least; some of them, daily. There is no good reason why every Catholic young man in the University should not profit by this good example. 
—^The Senior Monogram Club of Walsh hall gave a banquet at the Oliver last week, honoring the new members who had been initiated the previous evening. Coach Don. Hamilton.was presented with a splendid gold watch in token of Walsh hall's appreciation of his work in hall athletics. 
—^The interhall champions added another scalp to the already burdened belt of victory by defeating the Friars* Club of Fort Wayne on TBanksgiving day. The game was one of speed, skill, and endurance against beef and brawn. From the first sound of the whistle until the final time was called it was plainly seen that Corby with the skill of her bac^eld, the speed of her ends, and the wonderful en­durance of the team was far superior to the Fiiars. Not once did the Friars come within striking distance of the Corby goal, but quite frequently did the Corbyites place the ball in the shadow of their opponents'goal. Gushurst, Cannody, Donovan and Mehlem starred for Corby, while Capt. Braden, Strieder and Pierre played brilliant ball for the Friars. Score, 18-0 in-favor of Corby. The. :Corby boys received, royal treatment from the Fott Wayne atUetes. 
'--rf,;«-­



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Basketball and Track. 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, '13, 
Ass't Athletic Manager. 
Now that the football season is over, all attention' points to basketball and track, the outlook of which is especially bright. Wrhen Coach Maris issued his call some weeks ago, he was busily engaged in lining up the eligibles with a view to rounding a crack basketball team into form which would equal that of any previous year. The showing so far speaks for itself and proves that he was correct when he predicted that he would again develop a strong aggregation. Captain Granfield, who earned the right to lead the team by his consistent work last season, seems better than ever. He is cool-headed at all times, and exerts a great steadying power over the team. He has almost every quality needed 

in a good guard, and possesses a mania for breaking up plays of his opponents. 
Feeney who has played guard; has evinced a striking similarity to the great Vaughan in his habit of shooting baskets from any^vhere and everywhere and always with apparent ease. McNichol, the little forward, whose light­ning work was the sensation of last year, has again donned a uniform, and has been doing some very clever work so far. In O'Neill, Maris has a center who will hold his own with any in the state. Terry has a fondness for shooting long goals, and is exceedingly hard to cover. But the coach is particularly for­tunate" in having some notable material to fill the places of Fish, Maloney and Ulatowski, who for the past three years have putjorth all their best efforts to uphold the honor of the school in basketball. 
Of the new recruits Jimmie Cahill, the crack hall man of last'year, will in all probability, fill the place of one of the three who were graduated in June. Feeney from Holy Gross, Dougherty of St. Mary's, and Mehlem stand alone and have shown that they are capable of doing all that is expected of them. 
Of this year's football team Pliska, the plucky little half-back, who for the past two years has been picked by Chicago papers for the all star high-school team, and Bergman," captain of the interhall champions of last year, with I<arson, will try for places. 
Last year's track squad, conceded" by the-leading sporting critics of the country to be one of the best teams ever brought together, and winner of the Pennsylvania games, will once again try to duplicate this feat. The men will start working in the large gym in a week or so, and are in great trim for the beginning of a hard training season. Captain Fletcher thinks that he will be able to round up some promising material among the new students. 
Of the old stand-bys it is not necessary to say much. Yet we like to give expression to loj'^alty where loyalty is so well deserved; for Captain Fletcher, Jim Wasson, Bob Fisher, Bill Hogan, Si. Williams and John Plant are men that we can rest assured will hold their own .with any team on the cinder path for the coming year. They have a very hard schedule before them, but we are confident that they, as well as the basketball team, will cop off the large end of the tally. And when the curtain falls at the close of the season of 1912 w^e are positive that Notre Dame will be well satisfied with the showing of the teams of this year. 
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE. 

Eec. 6th-T-Commercial Athletic Club at Notre Dame " cth—Lewis Institute at Notie Eame " 16th—Hull House at Notre Eame 
Jan. 15th—Eenison University at Notie Eame " 20th—Northwestern at Notre Dame " 27th—Wabash College at Notre Eame ' " 31st—Marquette University at Notre Dame 
Feb, 2nd—Wabash College at Crawfords^ ille " 5th—De Paul University at Notre Eame. " loth—Detroit University at Notre Eame " 13th—Commercial Athletic Club at South Bend " 14th—Earlham College at Richmond " 15—Miami University at Cincinnati " 16—St. Mary's College at Dayton " 17—Ohio State University at Columbus " IS—Open " 19th—Heidelberg University at-Tiffin " 20th—St. John's University at Toledo " 21-7-Detroit University at Detroit " 22nd^Hope College at Holland " 24th—Open 
March 8th—^De Paiil University at Chicago TRACK SCHEDULE. January 20th—rFirst Regiment at Chicago February 12th—^A. A. U; Chainpionship March 14th—Ohio State University, at Notre Dame March 30th—Penn State at Notre Dame April 27th^Pennsylvania Relay Games at Philadelphia' May 4th—Ohio State University at Columbus May nth—Pittsburg Ujiiversity at Notre Dame May i8th—Seventh Anniial Intercollegiate Field Meet at Pittsburg May 25thr-Invitation Meet at Notre Da.ime, June ist^—Conference meet at Lafayette 
^^^S^mmMm:^r7i^:n:i 



