:':>l^^fppgt^^^fe^#;^li^^^^^^^#;^Mi^^^g^^P^P^I%^^:^'gg:^^iggi^ 
\-4 
.1/. 
A MAN'S BEST FRIEND IS HIS SPORTCOAT 
. . . and you'll find many friends at the 
Campus Shop. Come in and see our 
big selection of fine, comfortable Ivy 
league sport coats in tweed, Shetland, flannel and other .popular imported and domestic fabrics — in stripes, checks, plaids, and novelty weaves. You'll like their natural shoulders, nar­row lapels, less padding, greater com­fort. See them tomorrow. 
^ILBERrS 
On the Campus—Notre Dame 
^ILBERrS 
*.') 
CHARGE IT-^ THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY 
PAY PAY 
FEB APR 
lio Carrying Charge 

At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of na­tionally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you're on a budget — like most college men are — why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in Februaiy, one-third in March and one-third in April. It's that simple — and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow! 
DRESS RIGHT —You can't afford not to! 
ON THE CAMPUS —NOTRE DAME 
December 13, 1957 
"ROLLER FREIGHT" ENDS THE NO. 1 

CAUSE OF FREIGHT TRAIN DELAYS 
E
VERY year, over 125,000 freight trains have to 
stop en route and drop cars for repairs. All for 
the same reason. Hot boxes—railroaders' term for 
overheated friction bearings. 
But the railroads are winning the battle against this No. 1 cause of freight train delays. They're going "Roller Freight"—mounting freight cars on Timken® tapered roller bearings. "Roller Freight" speeds trains through terminals, too. You inspect Timken bearings just by touching them—save 90% of the time. 
That's Better-ness. The result of an American conviction that "good enough" isn't. With "Roller Freight", America's railroads will save an estimated $224,000,000 annually. Earn 22% on their "Roller Freight" investment. "Roller Freight" brings Better-ness to all America by helping the railroads speed service. 
WANT TO HELP CREATE BETTER-ness.? Are you looking for a bright future with a big and grow­ing company—one that rewards ability and imagi­nation.' Then send for our free booklet, "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company". It tells all about the fine opportunities we offer college graduates. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio. 
61 railroads and other/reight car owners now have over 24,500 "Roller Freight" 
cars in service or on order. 


This is BETTBR-ness 
America is fm-it and mm
bearings help you get it 
Football Review 

Only ViceroY gives you 





20,000 FILTER TRAPS FOR THAT SMOOTHER TASTE 
'•^^^m?± _--w • • , j« ••••••• 
— ^••••••••~ ---­
ra««««*««*« ... 
, .V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.N 
F« • • • « •

••-•-•-•-w.v.v.v.v.v 
••••••••••••^
-•-•-•-•-•-•-,».V.«.".V.*.V.".' 
•.•.•.•.•.v.v.'.-.v.v 
---••••••• • • • • • ^ 
• • • • • •_•_•_•_•_•_• 
w • • • • • • • • • mj^ • •• 
C.V.V.V.V.V.V.'.Vr 
AN ORDINARY FILTER THE VICEROY FILTER 
Half as many filter traps in These simplified drawings the other two largest-selling show the difference... show filter brands! In Viceroy, that Viceroy's 20,000 filter 20,000filter traps... twice as traps are actually twice as 
Actual photomicrosraph

many... for smoother taste! Actual photomicrograph many as the ordinary filter! 
of Viceroy filter section.

of ordinary filler section. 
K1 

Twice as many -filter traps 
teW^IPTf­


as the other two largest-selling filter brands! 
Compare! Only Viceroy gives you 20,000 filter traps—nv/ce as many as the other two largest-
x 

selling filter brands—for that 
smoother taste! P/i/5—finest-quality leaf to­bacco, Deep-Cured for extra 

M VteEROY 
smoothness! 
filter ^^ 
Get Viceroy! 20,000filter traps, CIGARETTES 
for the smoothest taste of all! 
Look! Viceroy gives you only golden brown tobacco, ) 19B7, Brown & WllUamson Tobacco Corp. Deep-Cured through and through for extra smoothness! 
FAMILIAR PACK OR CRUSH-PROOF BOX. 
The Notre Dame 


Parker-ffiDterrowd 
Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 
11572-1171/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS 
Phone CE 3-6318 
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Per­sonnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to-wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allov/once. 
Placing your order early means better service. 

Parker-Winterrowd 
Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115V2-117V2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS 
Phone CE 3-6318 


Scholastic 

Vol. 99 December 13, 1957 No. 10 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918. 
MIKE FITZPATRICK 
Football Review Editor 
TOM EDWARDS 
Assistant Editor 
ED ROHRBACH 
Assistant Editor 
TED THOMPSON 
Assistant Editor 

GAMES: Dave Kubal. Bob Early. John Glaviii. John McMahon. Ed Roliibach, Joe Bride. Tom Ed­waids. Greg Roger.s. Jack Grady, Ted Thompson. 
FE.ATURES: Tim O'Reilly. Biuce Knot, .Joe Bride. Jack Dolan. Dick Donovan. Mike Mathews, Joe Doyle. Tom Bates. George Clement.';. 
PHOTOGRAPHY: Bob Eaily. Bernic Cooper. Ed Sliay. Jack Barthcl, The Associated Pi ess. Tom Ed­wards. 
SporU Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O'Reilly, Bob Schaefer. 
JIM STEINTRAGER 
Editor 
DAVID L. KUBAL 
Associate Editor 
JOHN GLAVIN 
Associate Editor 

GEORGE CLEMENTS News Editor HARRY McKEE Copy Editor BOB EARLY Features Editor BOB WILLIAMS Photography LORAN SHEFFER Business Manager MIKE KURAS Assistant Business JOE DEZELAN Circulation Manager TOM BANCHOFF Assistant News WALT RUDGE Assistant News JIM YOCH Assistant News STEVE ROAKE Assistant Copy JIM SGHUH Assistant Copy TOM LAMONT Assistant Features BOB SEDLACK Assistant Features 
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Bob Pruett. 
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na­tional advertising by National Advertising Ser^^ce, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina­tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manu­scripts to the Editor, Box 183, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Prinfcrs Publishers 
WILBUK JUST WOKE UP TO 
JHB FACT THAT HE'S IN CLASS! 
KEEP ALERT rOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE! 
Don't let that "drowsy feel­ing" cramp your style in class .. . or when you're "hitting the books". Take a N0D02 Awakener! In a few minutes, you'll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doaor will tell you—^NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy! 
15 TABLETS, 35c 
35 tablets b handy tin 


NOpOZ 

«9c AWAKENERS \ 

Have a WORLO 0f mi 
Travel with tITA Unbelleyable low Cost 



Europe 
tnci from $585 
•t«am*f 

Orient 
from $998 
Many fours include 
college credit 
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up. 
Ask Your Travel Agent 
332 So. Michigan Ave. .. INC. Caiicago 4, HA 7-2557 

o^'ltWTURBOW 
VPPTOMCTRIST 
OPTICAL REPAIRS Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated 
"Bring in the Pieces" 
EYES EXAMINED 
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE A-5777 
Football Review 



HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost. 

1958 and 1959 


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL Vacation Tours 
Il l SO. MICHIGAN 

1958 CALIFORNIA Open a Convenient Charge Account 

vs. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
"Make Cyr's your headquarters 

LOS ANGELES 
for haircufs." 


SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 29. 1958 
Coll CE 3-0678 for appointment 
7 7-Day All Expense Tour 
LEAVE CHICAGO NOVEMBER 24th. 1958 RETURN CHICAGO DECEMBER 3rd. 1958 







CYR'S 

PALM SPRINGS (3 days) 
BARBER SHOP 


LOS ANGELES (3 days), DISNEYLAND­LAS VEGAS, NEV. (overnite) South Bend's Leading Barber Shop 
Wrife for furfher informafion 
* * * 
100-102 S. MAIN St. 

PLAN NOW FOR 1959 W. E. CYR, Prop. 

21-DAY ALL EXPENSE TOUR TO 
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS PAUL'S SHOE SHOP 
Catering to Students and Faculty 
Paradise of fhe Pacific 
SHOE REPAIRS 

Leave September 23rd, return October 13th, 1959 
Heeis and Soles 

and also see 
SHOE ACCESSORIES 
Laces and Pads 

VS. CALIFORNIA 
QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE 
AT BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA In Rear of Administration Building 
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 10th. 1959 
•••lllllttlltllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllMllllllt. 
HANDBAGS LUGGAGE I Join now our FOOTBALL SAVING CLUB. Available at the | 
I American Trust Co.. member of F.D.I.C. Save weekly. For i 
HANSARlNTZSCH 

i information write Redden Travel Bureau. South Bend. Ind. i 
*j|lllllllllllllllllll>llllllll**><llllllll>llll>*lllll"l*IMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl<lllllll*l*IMIIIIll**IHIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllltlf? 
2-5881 
PHONE CE 
2-5882 

dedden ^nxiiuel Runeau 
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 

1671 Lincolnway East South Bend, Indiana 
LEATHER GOODS GIFTS 
December 13, 1957 
Congratulations to. . . 
TERRY BRENNAN 
AND HIS 

1957 FIGHTING IRISH 
FOUR YEARS of TRIALS TRIBULATIONS 
and SUCCESS 

TOGETHER 
SENIOR CLASS of '58 
IirritEDlE...lt!iCoachennil Teams 
Terry Brennan of Notre Dame $2.25 Notre Dame—100 Years .$4.00 
JCnute Rockne, All-American $1.50 Notre Dame Story .$3.00 
V. 

Frank Leahy and The Fighting Irish-.„$3.95 Rockne—The Four Winners. .$2.00 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

SBHO FOR YOUR 
Enclosed is $ for: 
COPY NOW ... . I j Terr>' Brennan of I I Frank Leahy and n Notre Dame Stor\­—' Notre Dame — The Fighting Irish 
I I Knute Rockne. Notre Dame-r n Rockne—The 
— All-American D 100 Years Four Winners 
Name

Notre Dame Bookstore 
Street address 

Notre Dame, Indiana 
City State. 
Football Review 

COVER STORY 
r* 
I,' 
A 
:­
f! 
Tribute 
The editors of the Football Review placed Head Football Coach Terry Brennan on its cover in recognition of the fine job that he has done in leading his team to their great come­back. The following is a tribute to Coach Brennan written by Joe Doyle, Sports Editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
T
HERE'S a wonderful sameness about Terry Brennan of Notre Dame, a uniformity of character that makes him an ideal football coach. 
»> In winning or losing — and in Brennan's four years as headmaster of the Fighting Irish there has been a little of each — the remarkable thing about Terry is that he basically remains the same person. 
m After a loss, Terry may be grim. Following a victory, he may be smiling, but his approach to either winning or v.* losing is the same. He appraises each success and each defeat realistically. 
If another team wins because it is basically a better team 
December 13, 1957 
than Notre Dame, then Brennan will say so. If he believes his team should have won, that fact will be pointed out. 
This realism is borne out by Terry's success this seascm. A year ago when his critics blamed the coaching for a losing Irish season, Brennan insisted, "We'll be back. In major college football, you do not win with a sophomore team." 
Brennan's theories proved themselves in the unbeliev­able comeback season just ended. Sophomores became juniors and grew up into footbzdl players. Other s<^hs came along and helped and the few seniors were determined not to leave Notre Dame as a team of losers. 
A year ago winging home from Southern California, Terry was grim. He doesn't like to lose football games and his team had lost eight times. But Brennan didn't panic. When 1956 was ended, he immediately turned to the future after making an assessment of himself and the losing team. 
This week, Brennan is smiling — not because he is satisfied or jaded by success. He is genuinely proud of his team — not for what they have done for him or for Notre Dame, but for themselves. "They proved to themselves that they could be good football players," Terry explained. "And gaining confidence in yourself is one of football's great assets." 
Terry has that same confidence. He may have learned it on the football field but there is a suspicion that it was. a basic trait of his early character. 
At age 18 he was challenging veteran halfbacks for position on the Notre Dame team of 1946, and there seemed little doubt in Terry's mind that he would be No. 1 at his position. 
In 1954 when Frank Leahy retired and Terry was named head coach, Terry didn't have the slightest doubt that he should have been named to direct the Irish. And Mice the job was his, Terry believed firmly that he could be a credit to his school. 
Two years of success left him perhaps not quite ready to accept the tribulation of 1956, but unless it was in private conversation, Terry did no wailing. 
If reasons for losing are alibis, then Brennan was guilty. But as usual, he used the realistic approach. And in getting ready for 1957, Terry openly stated, "We are probably a year away as a good team." 
When writers pressed him for a hint as to what would be the season record, Brennan sidestepped a specific won­and-lost figure. Privately, he might have admitted he would be pleased to see his team "above .500.". After finishmg up with a creditable 7-3 record, he was outwardly more than pleased. 
If Terry felt insecure in the long off-season between 1956 and 1957, he didn't show it. He brushed aside reports that he was "under fire" by saying, "You try to win every game. If your best effort fails, what else is there to do but get ready for the next one?" 
There is little doubt now that Brennan \vill be getting ready for that next one for a long time. 
In this or in any year, Terry is a sound coach, a colleague respected by his fellow coaches, a Christian gentleman, a dutiful husband and father, and a great credit to Notre Dame and to football. 
Irish Whip Purdue 
by DAVE KUBAL 
Lafayette, Ind., Sept. 26. —Notre Dame's Fighting Irish, still standing on unsteady ground after last season's record of 2-8, tackled and blocked them­selves to a 12-0 opening day win over a rugged Purdue football team. 52,108 Hoosier football fans sweated in 60 degree temperature while the team from the North held the Boilermakers to a mere eight first downs and 113 yards. 
Neither team looked impressive in this first game of the season. Notre Dame was only able to maneuver a sustained drive on three occasions; while Purdue only penetrated once past their opponents 40. 
The Irish received the opening kickoff and after an exchange of punts, they began a drive on their own 33 which eventually gained them their first score in seven plays. Right halfback Dick Lynch led the attack handling the foot­ball five times. Two quick hand-offs to Lynch from Quarterback Bob Williams netted eight yards, and put the ball on the Notre Dame 41. 
Then with two yards to go for the first down Lynch again took a pitchout from his quai'terback, started around his own right end, and at top speed threw to Aubrey Lewis, his running mate. Lewis took the ball on the 50 and ran to the Purdue 37. 
Williams added 12 yards on a keeper play through the Purdue left tackle slot, and Lewis came back wnth three over right guard. Then after faking to Fullback Pietrosante the junior quarterback flipped a short pitchout to Lynch who went around left end and half the Purdue squad for the six points at 7:26 of the first quarter. Lewis' attempt for the extra point was wide. 
After the kickoff the aggressive Notre Dame front line kept the Boilermaker backs under close scrutiny. On the second play of the subsequent quarter the Irish hindered Purdue's quarterback Bob Spoo on a third down pass situa­tion, and Aubrey Lewis intercepted his wild pass, returning it from mid-field to the 15-yard line. 
However, after a holding penalty to the 20 and two incomplete passes, Lewis' field goal attempt was wide. 
In the third quarter the Irish moved to the Purdue eleven-yard line but the attack stalled on the three. Starting on their own 34, Lynch failed through the line, but Pietrosante punched through the middle to the 41. Again on third down Williams dropped back behind fine protection and found end Gary Myers on the Purdue 40. Myers was finally persuaded out of bounds on the eleven. Pietrosante and Lynch advanced the ball to the five, but the next two plays netted only two yards. 
Purdue's biggest threat came late in the same period after Pietrosante's quick kick rolled out of bounds on the Boiler­maker's 49. Mel Dillard and Tom Fletch­er brought the ball to the 27 for a first down. The Notre Dame lead of a single score was seriously endangered, but the Irish line answered the challenge as Mike Muehlbauer spilled Bob Spoo back to the 39 on an attempted pass. After two more incompletions Kenny 
GREEN DEFENSE TOUGH 
•If 

Mikes booted the ball out on the 13. 
The game developed into a kicking duel betv/een Pietrosante and Mikes until with less than three minutes to play Bob Williams found end Bob Wetoska in i-ange on his own 45. Wetoska raced to the eight before being forced out of bounds. After Chuck Lima lunged for two yards over left tackle, Williams connected with Frank Reynolds for the touchdown with one minute remaining. Don White's conversion try was wide. 
It was a fine and necessary victory for the Irish. However, the Irish did not look completely competent on offense, failing to take advantage of several situ­ations, and will have to improve for future tests. 
Paul Homung's replacement, Williams, proved that he could handle the ball club, guiding them well against a de­fense that was constantly switching. He also completed six out of twelve passes. Lynch and Pietrosante stood out both on offense and defense. The junior full­back led both clubs with 62 yai'ds in ten tries. Lynch had 53 in 13 carries. The Irish accumulated 14 first downs and a total of 323 yards. 
Purdue exhibited a good defensive ball club, but at points their tackling was shabby. Their All-American full­back candidate Dillard topped the Purdue backs with 51 yards on 15 attempts. 
Brennan, still a young man with three seasons behind him was on the whole pleased with his players. After the game he remarked, "We made mistakes, but I thought our defense was 100 per cent improved. Of course, we missed several opportunities and failed to cash in." He paused as if he wasn't sure it was all true. "It's amazing these are 
LYNCH RUNNING THE OPTION the same kids as last year." 
Football Review 

JUST AND FRIEND STOP HOOSIER 
Irish Smash Hoosiers 
by BOB EARLY 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 5—Parading­before 54,000 jubilant fans on this clear 
• October afternoon, Notre Dame's re­juvenated football forces out-ran, out-passed and finally outclassed Indiana's quickly fading Hoosiers, 26 to 0, in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The victoiy, Notre Dame's second 
straight shut-out, marked the twenty-
seventh meeting of the two interstate 
rivals dating back to an Indiana victory 
in 1898. The Hoosiers have won only 
one game, however, since 1906. 
The outstanding feature of the game 
was the spirited Irish defense. Time 
and time again they stopped Indiana's 
side-saddle-T offense in the visitor's 
own territory forcing them to punt. And 
they rushed the kicker fiercely. Nine 
times the Hoosiers' Tommy McDonald 
went back to kick, and he was chased 
so badly that his punting average for 
the afternoon was only 26.8 yards. 
Indiana's longest sustained drive came 
in the fourth quarter when they marched 
66 yards, led by Dave Whitsell's 26­
yard gallop over tackle, to the Irish 
ten-yard line. There they were met by 
middle guard Bob Scholtz and the rest 
of the Notre Dame line, and thrown 
back to the 15 before losing possession 
of the ball. 
The scoring started midway in the first period. Notre Dame won the toss but could do nothing on their first series of downs. Indiana also was stymied in 
December 13, 1957 
its first attempt and McDonald punted out to the Irish 46-yard line. From there the greenclads marched 54 yards in twelve plays for the fii"st score of the day. 
On a third down and four situation near mid-field quarterback Bob Williams threw a sideline pass to Dick Lynch for a first down on the Indiana 37. Frank Reynolds got eleven more yards around end, then he and Lynch banged into the middle of the line moAring the ball to the seven. Fullback Nick Pietrosante crashed to the three for the first down. Williams lunged to the one, and finally Lynch slid over for the score. Don White kicked the point and the Irish led 7 to 0. 
Monty Stickles kicked off to McDonald who returned the ball to the 24 as Coach Terry Brennan put in his alter­nate group. A clipping penalty set the ball back to the Indiana nine-yard line. McDonald, trying to kick out of trouble, was rushed and punted out of bounds on his own 27. George Izo, now direct­ing the Irish offense, gave the ball up the middle to Chuck Lima for five yards. Then Izo carried on a keeper play to the one. On the next play Lima bulled into the end zone and the Irish led 13 to 0 as the first quarter ended. 
With three minutes and 20 seconds left to play in the second period the Irish scored again. An Indiana quick kick rolled out of bounds on the Hoosier 45. Reynolds and Lynch moved the ball to the 25, but a penalty cost the Irish fifteen yards back to the 40. 
Williams bootlegged to the 29. Lynch smashed to the 21 and then for a first down on the 20. An offside penalty again temporarily slow^ed the home team, moving them back to the 25. 
Williams faked to Reynolds and gave to Pietrosante who ducked neatly over right guard for nine yards. A Williams to Dick Prendergast pass got nine more. Reynolds banged to the three and two plays later Williams sneaked over for the touchdown. Stickles again missed the point and the score at the half read, Notre Dame 19 and Indiana 0. 
In the second half the Irish offense bogged down considerably. They could not move the ball and had to punt three times. Finally, late in the final quarter, just after the only sustained drive of any length by Indiana, the Irish scored again. 
Izo intercepted Tom Kendrick's pass at midfield and from there the Notre Dame backs began to roll. Lsmch picked up 17 yards through the middle and Jim' Just got twelve, then 14 more to the one-yard line on a delayed handoff that shook him loose wide to his left. From there it was again Just that carried, this time for the touchdown with only twelve seconds remaining in the game. White converted for the second time and the score stood 26 to 0 in favor of Notre Dame. 
A penalty gave Indiana one more play after the time ran out. McDonald tried a long pass, but Just intercepted and cut back along the far sideline. There was only one man between him and the goal and that man got him on the 23, stopping the final Irish threat and ending the game. 
AU AFTER IT 
U 

to score. Highlight of the drive was a 39-yard run by Dawkins that put the ball on the 7. One play later, he went over for the score and Hilliard converted to make it 14-7. It looked like Reynolds might tie the score on the kickoff return but Bourland, the last man between him and the goal, tripped him up on the Army 38, The Irish offense sputtered and then stalled as Army took over on their 26. 
After an exchange of punts, the Cadets took over on their 19 from where they scored again in 11 plays. Anderson went over from the one after sparking the drive with 31 yards in four attempts. Walters kicked the extra point and -nath only a minute left in the third quarter, Ai-my led, 21-7. 
The Irish returned the kickoff to the 

35. On the very next play, Pietrosante banged over guard, squirmed out of the arms of two tacklers, broke into the clear, faltered at the 15 but roared into the end zone for the score. Stickles kicked the point and Notre Dame was back in the ball game. 
Army failed to go anjrwhere and wex'e forced to kick to the Irish 44. Lynch went for 18 and Williams kept for five. Reynolds picked up three and then Piet­rosante got a first down on the Army 27. 
Lynch hit off tackle for seven and, after Pietrosante failed to get the fii"st down, the senior halfback dived to the 
15. Lynch then carried four consecutive times. He hit just short of a first down on the five but then picked up four to the one. After being stopped for no gain, he smashed into the end zone for the score. Irish hopes faded as Stickles' placement was too low. 
In the next series of plays, the Army was guilty of a gi-eat tactical error. With second and six, Bourland decided to try a jump pass. Frank Geremia batted the ball into the arms of Pietro­sante who was on the ground. 
The stage was set for Stickles' dra­matics. It will long be remembered as one of the highlights of the series which was renewed today after a ten-year lapse. Notre Dame was going for the score but a backfield in motion penalty hurt. With fourth and six on the 22, Brennan sent in Bronko Nagurski with the kicking tee. Williams held as Stick­les kicked from the 29. With six and a half minutes to go, Notre Dame had a 23-21 lead. 
Army picked up one fii'st down before yielding on the 48. The Ii-ish went no place and Pietrosante kicked into the end zone. 
Bourland failed to find a receiver and ran for two. Three passes fell in­complete and the Irish took over on the 
22. Two plays ran out the clock and the most dramatic of Army-Notre Dame games was history. 
THE KICK THEY WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER 
Army Falls Before N.D. 
by JOHN GLAVIN 
Philadelphia, Oct. 12—The Notre Dame comeback took a giant stride toward success today as the Fighting Irish came from behind in the last quarter to beat a favored Army team, 23-21. 
Over 95,000 fans sat in Municipal Stadium and watched Monty Stickles, an unknoA\ni sophomore, kick a dramatic 29-yard field goal with only six minutes remaining. The kick took an apparent victory out of the hands of the Cadets and gave Irish coach, Terry Brennan, the greatest victory of his young coach­ing career. 
The game was only tvs'o and a half minutes old when Bob Anderson, a young soph destined for great things, took off on an 81-yard run. Hilliard added the extra point and Army had a quick 7-0 lead. 
The Irish took the kickoff and failed to get a first down. A clipping penalty set Army back in a hole and the Cadets decided to quick-kick. The ball rolled into the end zone. 
Notre Dame took over on their 20 and moved 80 yards in 13 plays to tie the score. 
Quai-terback Bob Williams went 14 yards on a keep play. After Frank Reynolds lost two, Williams completed a nine-yard screen pass to Reynolds. 
-*-»' ,^::.->" '^M->'>' 

Williams then hit Dick Prendergast on the Army 49. 
Fullback Nick Pietrosante netted three but Williams lost a similar amount trying to pass. Williams was not to be denied though, as he tossed to Bob Wetoska for 16 yards. The lanky quarter­back picked up 15 yards after Pietro­sante had put the ball on the 24 with the 9-yard gain. Pietrosante then moved it to the seven. Reynolds banged to the two and Just hit inside the one-yard line. Pietrosante hit over right side for the score and Don White kicked the extra point. 
When the first quarter ended. Army was right back down in Irish territory with the ball on the 22. A fourth down Bourland-to-Dawkins pass was good for eight yards but just short of a first doAvn. 
The Irish moved all the way to the Army 20-yard line where the attack bogged down. With first down on the 20, Pietrosante failed to gain. Dick Lynch lost three on a pitchout and then Anderson broke up a Williams-to-Rey­nolds pass. On fourth down, Williams' pass intended for Dick Royer went astray and the Irish were also penalized for having an illegal receiver down field. 
Army took the kickoff opening the second half and took just seven plays 
Football RfVtPW 

I* 
r 
AKMO TUe CWtfeia.S OF-THAT hWSWTVTMpoNc? By p\6nipos/vNre=s 5\oe:. \«AceD ALOM(T >10 ONe SAVN MB A*5 \ LED TWe. WA.V 
'$\y.TV-T=\ve.VW^'DS ONtHATBR^AW-AWAY 
VA/H^N AlbUcM-DOWN WA-S Mga-peD ^ APJNCM \,\MHl^P6:ReDTo WlHxlA^A'sro CALC ONLyNC+^ -TWAS I WHO CALLED ON /^ot>iTYSTICKLES, 
-To Ricti US OUT OF A OKt-Poit^T Pickice 
jAOMry Hhv m.'iseo AN APifeRi&ucHoQWN wii H&A1IV^DT=0R ^eVEM eutCAMB UPSK opPocruMiry RODSOM Hi^-rZ3£ AGAIN Mow Hl^ NAM6.1?t-eCHoes IN-JOUTH B6riO"S SCgN MO\M 1SAJISH 1 MAB BCCiU<SHr1T^'(Jtpfl61^l^0^ JUSTTO HaA3--rHAT V(crOTa.V SONC? AMP To HeA'P.'iSRpy SeeMNAN SAV '' I WISH oLfe i^cK WA^ weise^ TD-D.^^/'' 
^ ^VSM A\V NE(G4-480'R5 DlPHT'TAUg.THe HINT , ^ v^NMH^N-THe HeAV£M-TOWM JOO'RNAL $Am INlJCINr IN A PeR^NAt - NCrre. ir W6NT ON T O SAV KMUTg. ^ckM ^ WAS. CiUTCfp-TbWN 6M ^ATU^CWV 
w 
>x« 
tr 
December 13, 1957 
Irish Nip Panthers, 13-7 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 26—Pittsburgh 
became the fourth victim of the re­
juvenated and unbeaten Irish of Notre 
Dame this afternoon as Coach Terry 
Brennan's inspired eleven scored on the 
first play of the fourth period to dovm 
the Golden Panthers 13-7. 
In avenging their 26-13 embari-assment 
at the hands of Coach John Michelosen's 
Panthers last year, the Irish doubled 
the victory total for 1956. 
The win was the 16th for the Irish in 24 games with the Panthers. One game ended in a tie. Today's loss was the third in six games thus far in the Pitt season. 
Two Notre Dame substitutes were the elements of destruction for the Panthers —George Izo and Aubrey Lewis. They entered the game to replace Bob Williams and Dick Lynch, Avho both were ejected for what the referees thought was more than usual roughness. 
Quarterback Izo, a sophomore from Barberton, Ohio, who had only com­pleted one pass in college football, faded back among swarming Panthers and calmly waited for halfback Lewis to put a stride between himself and three secondaiy defenders. The ball had traveled 36 yards when Lewis took it over his shoulder. He then carried it over to complete the 74-yard touchdown play. 
The one-shot gamble spelled the dif­ference for the 57,000 hopeful fans. 
Until this spectacular play the Irish were trailing a tough Panther eleven. Notre Dame had scored first with one minute 56 seconds remaining in the first period. 
Twice the luck of the Irish kept a drive going deeper into the land of the Panther. Frank Eeynolds fumbled. End Gaiy Myers fell on the ball for an eight-yard gain. Two plays later, Lynch, plunging for a needed two yards for a first down to keep the drive alive, fumbled. Alert Myers again came to the rescue and recovered. Williams then flipped a 9-yard pass to Lynch and Fullback Nick Pietrosante bulled his way for 7 yai-ds to the Pitt four. The two 
by JOHN F. McMAHON 

the Panthers weakened on third down 
and Reynolds powered his way into the 
end zone. Monty Stickles, who the pre­
vious week gave Notre Dame a victory 
over Army with a field goal, missed the 
try for the extra point. 
In the second quarter. Quarterback Bill Kaliden of the Panthers dived into the Irish end zone for six points, after directing a series of off-tackle plays that carried for 56 yards. Ivan Toncic kicked the extra point to put the Pittsburghers into the lead. 
The third quarter saw the two lines again settle do^vn to tight defensive play. 
It was early in this pei-iod that Wil­liams joined Lynch, who was sent to the bench follo^^ing Notre Dame's first touchdown. Williams and end Dick Scherer for the Panthers were found by the officials to have differences of opin­ion after a punting situation. 
The opening touchdown pass of the fourth quarter began with a punt by Toncic into the end zone. Izo and Lewis then combined their talents to set the stadium into pandemonium. This time Stickles' kick was ti'ue. 
Even after Izo and Lewis stunned Pitt, the Panthers still had one big chance to recover. Panther's guard John Guzlk 
and end Joe Pullekines fell on a fumble 
on the Notre Dame 39, and Pitt moved 
on the ground to the Irish 19. 
Halfback Bill Haley was stopped short at right end and Bob Stark was stopped after trying to gain through the middle of the tightening Irish line. 
Kaliden then tried two passes to gain the first down and possibly the game for Pittsburgh, but both were unsuccessful. 
Notre Dame took over the ball and played for the clock and the 13-7 victory. 
The statistics further told the story of the tight contest. Pitt gathered 16 first downs to Notre Dame's 14. Only five yards separated the teams in the rushing yai-dage column, with Pitt taking the lead 209 to 204. The Irish, by virtue of the 74-yard shell-shocking pass play, outdid the Panthers in passing yardage 85 to 47. 
Happily Coach Brennan addressed the locker room reporters: 
"We stopped ourselves too many times by penalties and fumbles, but when the going was tough we dug in and stopped them." He added: 
"Pitt was a real fine club with a strong line, and a good all round speed and determination." 
lines then battered for tw'^o plays, but 
PIETROSANTE BANGS PANTHER LINE 
Football Review 

NAVY DEFENSE STOPS WETOSKA 
N.D. Suffers First Loss 
by ED ROHRBACH 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 2—Navy this afternoon ended Notre Dame's -winning streak at four games. The once-beaten Middies overcame an Irish touchdown in the first quarter by scoring once in each of the remaining three periods to win, 20-6. The victory was only the sixth for Navy in 31 games against Notre Dame but marked their second win in a row over the Irish. 
Notre Dame had climbed to fifth ranking in the national polls before the game but couldn't peneti-ate the inspired Navy goal line after the Irish's only starting senior, Dick Lynch, plucked a loose ball out of the air on the Navy 46-yard line and raced down the right sideline to score. In the second quai-ter, the Middies' Wellborn broke through the Irish secondary and dashed 79 yards for a touchdown. The conversion was good and Navy took a 7-6 lead. 
Navy received the second half kickoff and marched from their o^vn 27 to the ND one-foot line where Wellborn smashed over. Two Middle attempts by Navy AU-Amei-ican quai-terback Tom Forrestal, on sneaks from the tvvo-yard line, failed before Wellborn's dive. Old­ham only needed one kick this time to give Navy a 14-6 edge with the extra point. 
A pass interception led to Navy's clinching touchdown in the fourth quarter. Again it was Wellborn, this time taking a screen pass from For­restal, who romped 36 yai-ds into the end zone. Oldham's conversion attempt was wide. 
Notre Dame won the toss at the start of the game and elected to receive. A 22-yai"d runback by Irish quarterback Bob Williams started them out with a first down on their OWTI 47. A penalty stalled the Irish's initial drive and Nick Pietrosante kicked dead to the Navy 14-yard line. From there, five plays, in­cluding a long pass gain, gave Navy a first down on the Notre Dame 16-yard stripe. Here, two running plays lost to the 21 and a holding penalty thwarted the march and the Irish took over on their 19. Pietrosante and Lynch banged to the 25 and on third down, Williams passed complete to the Ix-ish 39. Three plays then lost ND a net 14 yards and the Irish were forced to kick. On the second play from their 34, on the Navy 46-yard line, Lynch picked Wellbom's fumble from the air and scored. Sopho­more Monty Stickles, ND end, failed on the conversion try. 
A fumble after the kickoif again stopped a Navy drive as Aubrey Lewis pounced on a loose ball to recover for Notre Dame. However, a holding pen­alty on the first play was too much to overcome and Notre Dame's George Izo punted to the Navy eight where the ball rolled dead. An illegal downing penalty brought the ball out to the Mid­dies' 20-yard line. 
Navy had difficulty moving the ball; so Swanson punted. His kick sailed over Lewis' head to the ND ten where the Irish senior picked it up and ran to the Notre Dame 22-yard line. Senior full­back Chuck Lima plowed to the 33 on two running plays and, with the ND first team back in the game, the march was halted by two 15-yard penalties. Standing in his own end zone, Pietro­sante got off a prodigious 72-yard punt to the Navy 32. After the teams ex­changed pimts again. Navy started from their 22-yard line where Wellborn raced through the Irish defenders to tally the tying touchdown. The exti-a point gave them the lead that they never relin­quished. At this point, a di-izzling rain began to fall and fumbles were frequent from here on. Another Navy drive was halted by a fumble when WeHbom" hobbled on the Notre Dame 21-yai-d line. The half ended with the Irish in pos­session of the ball on the Navy 40. 
Stickles kicked off for Notre Dame to start the second half. Forrestal downed the ball on the 27. A draw play ^\^th Wellborn carrying and a- screen pass to the Navy halfback were the big plays as the Middies moved the ball down to the Notre Dame 15. On third and eight, Forrestal passed complete for a first down on the two. . From there, three line plays, with Wellborn bouncing over on the third, put Navy one touchdown ahead. Oldham's exti-a point placement was good. 
Another penalty, this time for clip­ping, stopped Notre Dame, after the Irish had advanced into Navy territory following the kickoff. Now Navy found trouble moving the ball and they punted back to Noti-e Dame. Three running plays left the Irish four yards short of a first down in their series of plays and Izo punted back to Navy's 14-yard line. 
Navy started the fourih quarter with possession of the ball on their ten-yard line. Swanson towered another long kick after the Middle offense failed to jell and ND returned his punt back to their 
33. On the first play, Moncilovich inter­cepted Izo's pass and Navy gained com­mand on the Notre Dame 35. Brand­quist then ran and passed for a fii-st down on the Irish 22-yard line. WeU­bom followed by picking his way to the 12 on a draw play. In two plays the Middies had moved to the six but there the Notre Dame defense held. The In'sh took over on their three. 
Pietrosante was forced to punt on third do^vn from the end zone and Navy regained the ball on their 42, another example of the fine punting by both teams this day. Forrestal then dropped back and hit Jokanovich with a first down pass on ND's 35. After an off-tackle slant had moved the ball to the 32-yard line. Wellborn grabbed For­restal's screen pass ajid scampered in for his third touchdown of the afternoon. 
December 13, 1957 
Michigan State Whips Irish 
by JOE BRIDE 

East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 9—Michi­
gan State's educated Spartans stumbled 
and hobbled for two periods, then roared 
back with four touchdowns in ten min­
utes of the second half to emphatically 
put the skids to Notre Dame's hopeful 
Irish, .34-6, here today. 
At the quarter, the score was tied, 
0-0, and at the half the Spartans led 
7-0. But, between halves they had an 
appointment with Duify Daugherty's 
magic wand and combined Duffy's magic 
with their own exceptional ability and 
rolled to the win in the second half. 
Thus again it was the third period that bothered Teriy Brennan's 19-57 squad. Against Ai'my, Pittsburgh, Na\'^'^ and Indiana, the Irish attack had sput­tered and defense weakened in this period. It happened again today. 
Except for this period and the first two minutes of the last period, it would have been a 7-6 game. 
In the first period, two Spartan fumbles and an alert Irish defense led by Al Ecuyer stopped the Spartans, once on the ND 16 and again on the one. 
Then, the fifth time they had the ball, the Spartans moved 54 yards on six plays against the Irish second unit to score. Art Johnson circled right end for eleven yards and the touchdown. 
After their chat wt h Daugherty, the Spartans moved the ball 57 yards on 17 plays with the kickoff to score their second TD. 
But, if it hadn't been for a disputed pass interference call, which films later proved wrong, the Irish might have stopped the drive. 
The Spartans had third and seven on the ND 14. Jim Ninowski faded to pass and looked despei-ately for a receiver. Sam Williams cut straight across the field fi-om his left end position. Ninow­ski threw the pass. As Williams grabbed for it, Nick Pietrosante dived into him from the rear. Williams tumbled over and lost the ball. The referee im­mediately called pass interference on Notre Dame and MSU had a first down on the ND five. 
It still took them four downs to score. Don Lawrence, the Irish right tackle, halted Don Gilber't on the two. Walt Kowalczyk was smothered by the center of the line, led by La%vrence, Ecuyer, Jim Schaaf and Boh Scholtz. On third 
smashed through to stop Blanche Martin 
on the one again. But, on fourth down, 
Kowalczyk dove over the left side for 
the score. 
Ti-ailing 14-0, the Irish moved into State terx'itory for the second time during the afternoon. Williams using the option, circled the right end for ten yards to the 45, and as he was about to be tackled he pitched to Reynolds who sprinted 28 more yards to the MSU 27. 
On first down Williams moved to the 22 and Pietrosante moved to the 19 on second downi. On third and two, Wil­liams moved for the first down, but was hit hard by Les Rutledge and fumbled. 
The Spartans took over and moved 85 yards on seven plays for the tally, the last 50 by Johnson on a spectacular gallop thx'ough the right side of the Irish second team line. 
The Spartans then scored twice more, using the full extent of their well-leamed football text book. The speed of Daugherty's fleet halfbacks, the power of all five of his big lines, the depth of his football team, and the skill of the coaching staff took their toll of the thin, break-plagued Irish squad. 
Before the contest was over 52 Spar­

tans had seen action and each of the 
first three MSU units had accounted for 
a MSU tally. 
The lone ND tally came on an 82 yard march which took ten plays and was led by the passing and running of Williams. He picked up 29 yards, com­pleted three of five passes on the drive and dove over from the six inch line for the score. 
Despite the 34-6 score, the Irish were not that much worse than Michigan State. The second Spartan TD came after a doubtful referee's call, the third after they had fumbled on a third and five situation and recovered for a nine yard gain, the last three after Irish fumbles, and two against the second team. 
Ecuyer again led the Irish defensive unit, making 15 tackles, blocking an attempted State pass, and intercepting a pass for a 12 yard return. He was closely followed by Schaaf, who also made 15 tackles, and Lawrence. 
Pietrosante, although carrying the ball only eight times and meeting stiff op­position from the Spartan line, again proved his right to post season honors and continued as the team rushing leader. 
«s. 
•'..I-t 

do-wTi, Bob Williams and Frank Eeynolds WILLIAMS DIVES FOR IRISH SCORE 
After Oklahoma 
The Troops 
President and Coach 

Dick Lynch and young friend 
DICK LYNCH SCORES IN THE FINAL PERIOD TO BEAT OKLAHOMA 
IRISH SNAP SOONER STREAK AT 47 
Football Review 

Norman, Okla., Nov. 16—The mighty legions of Notre Dame swept through the Southwestern plains today and left two of the nation's longest streaks broken. For 47 consecutive games the 
!1 Sooners of the University of Oklahoma had been victorious and for 123 straight games they had scored. This afternoon —Notre Dame 7, Oklahoma 0. 
Coach Terry Brennan brought his men to Norman as 19 point underdogs. After the first half, it was evident that this Notre Dame team had only one purpose and that was to stop the Sooners. Twice in the second quarter the Irish had driven within the Oklahoma ten yard strip but had been held. 
Oklahoma could not muster any kind of drive throughout the first 30 min­
I -1 utes. They had advanced to Notre Dame's 13-yard line the first time that they had the ball but this was achieved chiefly through a 15-yard defensive hold­ing penalty against the Brennanmen. 
WIN TOSS 
The Irish won the coin toss and elected to receive. Quarterback Bobby AVilliams took the kick on his own 13 and returned to the 25. But a clipping penalty moved the ball back to the Notre Dame six-yard line. Three plays up the middle gained only six yards and Nick Pietrosante punted to the Oklahoma 40. AVith Cai-1 Dodd leading the Sooner of­fense, the Oklahomans moved quickly to two first downs and the Irish 20-yard line. But the defense dug in and stopped the drive, taking over on downs on their own 13. This was to be the closest the Sooners would be to a touchdown all afternoon. 
For the rest of the first period neither team's offense could get started. Pietro­sante and Sooner David Baker were matching spectacular punts as they con­sistently kept their teams fx'om trouble. 
RUSHED HARD 
The start of the second quarter gave an idea of what was to follow. On the first play of the period, Dodd faded back to pass but was rushed hard by Dick Royer and Frank Kuchta of the Irish. They hit him on the 40 where he fumbled, recovered and fumbled again. This time it was Pietrosante who came iip with the ball and Notre Dame had a first down on the Oklahoma 49. 
The Irish ground game had been stopped in the fii'st quarter so now Wil­liams took to the air. He hit end Jim Colosimo for ten yards and a first down. Halfback Dick Lynch got four yards off left tackle and then Williams connected on two quick tosses, one to Eoyer the other to Pietrosante. Lynch went for five yards over guard and then it was Williams to Colosimo and a first down on 
The Oklahomans Avere not to be beaten yet, though. Pietrosante carried for two yards in t\vo carries, but Frank Reyn­olds and Jim Just could get nowhere and the Sooners took over on downs on their own one-foot line. Halfback Clen­don Thomas, the Sooners All-American candidate, punted out to his own 46-yard line and the Irish were on the move again. 
Reynolds got nine yards over guard and Just went for six more over left tackle. Williams again found Colosimo in the clear and the Irish had another 
by TOM EDWARDS 

first down on Oklahoma's 20. Again Oklahoma's defense stiffened. With fourth down and six to go end Monty Stickles went back to attempt to kick a field goal. As he went through the motions, Williams who was holding, rolled out to his right and threw to Just who moved to the six and a first down before he was stopped. On the next play, Reynolds attempted a running pass to Stickles but Baker intercepted for the Sooners and the Irish had been stopped again. 
For the rest of the period and through­out the third quarter, the tAvo teams re­
4# *J'%MJ^ 
sumed their punting duel. In the third quarter, Oklahoma kickers rolled the ball dead within the Notre Dame ten-yard line four times. 
But after three minutes had elapsed in the fourth period, Thomas booted one into the Irish end zone. Notre Dame put the ball in play on the 20 but time to score Avas groAA-ing short. 
GROUND ATTACK 
Williams, Av-ho had used his passing game to perfection early in the game, noAA' chose to Avork his running attack. For eleven straight plays, Pietrosante, Lynch and Reynolds canned over the guards, and gained 55 yards to the Sooner 25. Reynolds then got a yard around right end and Williams passed to Royer for ten yards. 
Pietrosante gained seven yards off right guard and then Lynch got eight more before Williams fumbled and lost four. With a first doAA-n on the Sooner eight, it Avas Pietrosante for four, Lynch stopped for no gain, and Williams carry­ing for one yard. 
On fourth and three, Williams faked to Pietrosante into the middle and pitched to Lynch going Avide to his right. With 3:50 left in the ball game he got the touchdoAvn and Oklahoma had been stopped. 
In the remaining minutes. Sooner desperation passes carried to the Irish 36 but Williams intercepted in the end zone and the Irish i"an out the clock. 
the Sooner three-yard line. PIETROSANTE MAKES THE STOP 
December 13, 1957 
Irish Sports Publicity Assistant tells what he saw after the Oklahoma game 
In the Dressing Room 
by JOE BRIDE 
The game was over. The usually dry The prayer was over, but the players Okie terrain was moist with the rain of still didn't break out in cheers. Terrence Wednesday and the tears of the 11,000 Patrick Brennan got off his knees and Sooner students. spoke to his team. "I can't thank you 
They stood in the stands for a long enough. You know what this victory 
time. Most of them had never seen their means to me, to you and to Notre Dame. heroes lose. They stamped their feet I'll never be able to forget this game nervously, punched each other to see if or this team." it was true, and even cried a little. 
The team cheered the coach and started 

After a while they ambled slowly out smiling and hugging each other. Each of the stadium and around to their of the assistant coaches: Bernie Crim­team's locker room. mins, who scouted the Sooners to de­
Under the stands, across the field feat; Henry Stram, who came from an from the Oklahoma press box—^the appendicitis operation on Wednesday side of the stands you saw on your TV morning to be here; Bill Fischer, whose screen — in a locker room used by the rugged defense blanked the Sooners; Sooner, track squad during the week, it and Bernie Witucki, who coached at Avas just as quiet. Tulsa University the last time he was 
in Oklahoma, made a short speech. 

KNEEL IN PRAYER As Coach Crimmins (he of the boom­ing voice on the practice field) spoke, 
Thirty-eight football players in sweaty the players asked him to speak up so white jerseys and gold pants, one foot­they could hear him. 
ball player in a charcoal grey suit, and five coaches knelt do^vn to pray. When they were finished, the players Every week the Irish dedicate their voted the game ball to Coach Witucki. 
football game to the Blessed Mother, As he accepted it, he was standing in hoping that no one will be hurt seri­front of a blackboard, used by Coach ously. This week the game was dedicated Brennan to diagram the plays of the 
to Our Sorrowful Mother. There was 
Sooners at the half. no thought of rejoicing until the three One of the players had written on it, 
Hail Marys and the short ejaculation, "We came to Oklahoma to win. We did. "Sorrowful Mother Pray for us," were Don't forget to thank Our Lord and said. Blessed Lady." 
The football player in the grey suit led them. He was Ed Sullivan, team 
YELLING 

co-captain. An injured ankle prevented him from making the trip, but he flew Then, the players started yelling and down anyway. His coming must have singing. Coach Brennan had moved to helped. the front part of the locker room where 
the showers and training equipment were. Dick Lynch hugged him happily and said, "Coach I'm so happy I almost feel like breaking training." Coach Brennan replied, "I doubt if it would be the first time." The players were parading through the locker room, ripping the tape oif their ankles, taking showers, still a little dazed. Nick Pietrosante, who had blasted for yardage on the TD drive and had elimi­nated Clendon Thomas as a running threat, sat by his locker, almost fully clothed. Reporters and newscasters with tape recorders banged on the door and were admitted. They picked out Coach Bren­nan as their inmiediate target and started asking questions. People surged against the door, try­ing to get in. The noise was starting to rise. Coach Brennan started to an­swer the questions and couldn't help starting to smile, just a little, as he would go over some incident of the game. Johnny Lujack, came in the locker room, and congratulated Coach Brennan. So did "Moose" Krause, and "Cherokee" Charlie and Walter Duncan. 
ASK QUESTIONS 
The reporters with the tape recorders and the newsmen cornered Pietrosante and Bob Williams, who played his best game, and Al Ecuyer, who led the de­fense, and started asking questions. 
They all said it was a team effort and they all praised each other. 
More people came in the locker room. Marty Allen was cavorting with a shil­lelagh that was sent to him before the game and that he'd carried throughout. 
Somebody came in with cokes and he was mobbed by Dick Eoyer and Paul Djubasak. 
Charlie Puntillo, Jun Schaaf and Don Lawrence were among the first dressed. Pietrosante and Ecuyer among the last. 
But, quickly they began to get dressed and file out of the locker room. John McFadden, Sonny Doyle and John Leahy packed the equipment. The plane was to leave in less than an hour. 
Most of the players went in and took a last look at the stadium. This was it. 
As it started to get dark, they boarded the two buses for the Oklahoma City airport. The grimness that was present before the game was gone. 
The buses pulled out of the stadium and passed the parking lot. People watched. Some yelled, some smiled, some booed. 

The last thing we saw of the campus was a cardboard sign, painted in black, on the back of a 1957 Cadillac and meant for us. "Yankee, Go Home." 
Football Review 

Irish began to move but another holding penalty forced them to punt and Lj^nch 
Hawkeyes Clip Green 
booted the ball to the Iowa 17. On the second play. Gravel fumbled when hit 
by GREG ROGERS 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 23—Hampered by the loss of fullback Nick Pietro­' sante's fine ball-carrying and his booni­i ing punting Notre Dame's Irish fell be­fore the Iowa Hawkeyes for their third loss of the season, 21-13. A sellout crowd of 58,000 watched the game in 35-degree temperatures and Avinds that ranged from 25 to 50 miles per hour in 
' Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Hawks scored on a 36-yard run up the middle by fullback John Nocera, Randy Duncan's 24-yard retui-n to pay-dirt of an intercepted pass, and sewed up the game in the fourth quarter on a 16-yard Duncan to Don Norton pass 
A that bounced through two Irish defend­ers' hands before reaching Norton in the end zone. Both of the Irish scores came quickly 
* and caught the Iowa defense by surprise. With the Irish in possession on their own 45, quarterback George Izo threw 
i to end Monty Stickles who grabbed the ball on the Iowa 35, and rumbled to the score, neatly side-stepping Iowa's Bill Gravel. In the third quarter, Notre 
* Dame's fullback, Ron Toth, fell on an Iowa fumble on the Hawkeye 15. Then, on the next play, he circled Iowa's right side for the score. Stickles' conversion made the score 14-13, but this was the 
^ last sei-ious Irish advance. The Hawks insured their victory on Duncan's pass to Norton. 
The Hawks kicked off and the Irish moved the ball to the Iowa 27 on two first downs. The bulk of the yardage was picked up by quartei'back Bob Wil­liams when he romped 36 yards from a passing formation. But the Irish lost the ball on downs and Iowa took over for the first time. On the first play, 
^ Duncan shot a pass to his left end, Jim Gibbons, for 13 yards and a first down. Another pass, from Duncan to right end Norton, for 17 more yards, gave the Hawks another first down on the Ii-ish 
43. A five yard off side penalty against the Irish and a two-yard gain on a re­^ verse gave the Hawks second down and three on the Irish 36. On the fifth play of the drive, fullback, John Nocera took a handoff from Duncan and broke over right guard where he avoided Al Ecuyer and ran for Iowa's first score at 5:39 of the first quartei-. Prescott converted 
I the first of three for the Hawks and they led 7-0. 
The Hawks were on the move again late in the first quarter but Bob Scholtz recovered Nocera's fumble on the Irish 
13. The Irish stopped the Hawks seven times inside their 25 during the game, either on fumbles or fourth down plays. 
At the beginning of the second quarter, the Hawkeyes drove to the Irish 16. However, the Irish pushed the lowans back to the 23 and Duncan's fourth down pass to fullback Ted Horn was just shy of a first down at the Irish ten where Notre Dame took over. Toth took a shot at Iowa's forward wall and failed to gain. Reynolds threw a pass intended for Lynch but Iowa's Duncan intei'cepted on the Irish 24 and dashed for the Hawkeye's second tally. Prescott again converted and the Hawks led 14-0. 
At this point, Izo took over for Wil­liams at quarterback and the Irish be­gan to move. A pass to Reynolds with a seven yard thrust by Toth gave the Irish a first down on their o^vn 45. Then Izo faded back and hit Stickles who was all alone on the left side of the Iowa defense. Stickles tried the extra point but it was blocked by Happel and the Irish trailed by eight. 
After the Irish kicked off, the Hawks di"Ove to the Notre Dame 25 but fumbled and the Irish took over. Notre Dame drove to their own 43 but lost the ball on downs with 1:22 remaining in the half. The Hawkeyes managed to get the ball to the Notre Dame eleven but time ran out. 
Early in the third quarter, a Notre Dame holding penalty on an Iowa punt play gave the ball to the Hawks on the Irish 38. But the Notre Dame defense dug in and the ball went over to the Irish on downs on the Irish 14. The by Royer and Toth recovered. On the next play, Toth galloped around Iowa's right side, stiff-arming an Iowa de­fender, for the score. Stickles' conver­sion left the Irish one point behind. 
Iowa again hammered into Irish ter­ritory but lost the ball on downs on the Irish 13. Working into the Avind in the final quai-ter, Notre Dame's offensive play was limited and Izo wa5 forced to punt. The Hawks took over on their own 49. 
The Hawkeyes were not to be denied, as they drove 51 yards in five plays to sew up the contest. The final tally came on the deflected pass into the arms of Iowa's right end, Norton. The Iowa de­fense held the Irish attack for the last eight minutes and the Hawks just miss­ing another score in final second of play. It was the Hawks seventh victory of the season and the second victory in as many years against the Irish. The Hawkeyes trampled the Irish 48-8 last year. The series now stands at eight victories for the Irish as against five for the Hawks. There have been three ties. 
Toth led the Irish runners with 65 yards in twelve attempts with Williams gaining 56 yards in three attempts. Happel was the leading gainer for the Hawkeyes with 70 in 17 tries. Izo threw eight passes and completed five Avith Williams completing five of eleven. 
The Hawks moved for 255 yards on the gi-ound to Notre Dame's 96 but the Irish got 144 yards through the air as against Iowa's 123. Iowa had 22 first doAvns as against eleven for the Irish. 
ECUYER STOPPED AFTER 

 SHORT PUNT RETURN 
December 13, 1957 
t^^Si**.::; 
CROTTY PLOWS THROUGH TO SCORE 
Avenge '56 Troy Loss 
by JACK GRADY 
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 30—Terry Brennan displayed his charges to the last home town audience of his "come­back year" today and led them on to a 40-12 victory over a surprisingly inept Southern California team. The an­nounced crowd of 54,793, who sat in snow-covered stands and 22 degree cold, watched the Irish run up their highest point total in over two years after jump­ing off to an early two touchdown lead in the first period. 
Of the 41 players Brennan used in the course of the afternoon, sophomore half­back Pat Doyle, making his first sus­tained appearance in the ND Stadium, provided the biggest thrill of the after­noon when he took the kickoff after the Trojans had pulled up to a 13-6 deficit and retui-ned it 92 yards for the score. Doyle however had to share the long range honors with classmates Monty Stickles and Jim Crotty, as well as signal caller Bob Williams and Co-Cap­tain Dick Prendergast. 
Besides being successful in three of his five extra point attempts. Stickles grabbed two of Williams' aerials for six pointers, one covei'ing sixteen yards and the other seven. Crotty, also making his first home appeai-ance, reeled off 57 yards in nine carries, most of them com­ing during a sustained third period drive which insured the Irish of victory. Ron Toth, substituting commendably for injured fullback Nick Pietrosante, walked off with the day's rushing honors, grind­ing out 78 yards in 18 carries. 
While the ND offense was i-acking up 412 yards, the defense was holding the Trojans to 59 yards in the air and 127 on the ground. Southern Cal at­tempted 29 passes but completed only five — seventeen of them being thrown by signal caller Tom Maudlin in the first half alone with but one being successful. The ND defense had the Trojan re­ceivers Avell covered and, when one did manage to slip through the safety and come within reach of the pass, he usually had trouble holding on to the ball. 
After winning the toss and picking up a first down on their own 35, Southern Cal was forced to kick to the Irish 44. Following a series of plays by ND which moved the ball to the Southern Cal 35, Toth fumbled, but Williams re­taliated by intercepting Maudlin's pass and returning it to the Tx-ojan's 29. The Irish covered the remaining dis­tance to the Southern Cal goal in eight plays which included an eight yard run by Frank Reynolds and a nine-yard keep by Williams, capped by Toth's plung for the score from the three. Stickles missed the point try and with 
7:22 remaining in the first period the Irish were out in front 6-0. 
Three minutes later, after Chuck Pun­tillo stole the ball from Clark Holden on the Southern Cal 27, Stickles snared a 17-yard Williams' aerial in the end zone and added the PAT himself, pro­viding the Irish with the necessary margin for victory. 
The Trojans once again tried to get their offense rolling via the air but this time it was Doyle who intercepted a Trojan pass on the Irish five just as the quarter ended. Following an ex­change of punts, Doyle fumbled on his own 16 and Monte Clarke recovered for the Trojans. Irish defense held at the eight however and the ball went over to ND on downs, only to have Williams fumble on the 22. This time the boys from the coast were not to be denied and they capitalized on the break five plays later when Rex Johnston romped into the end zone for the score. The clock read 5:36 as Johnston's point at­tempt went wide of the uprights. 
Doyle thus had the stage set for him as he took Ed Isherwood's kickoff on the eight, headed up the center of the field to the 20, broke to his left, and sped all the way to the Trojan goal un­touched. A fumbled pass from center messed up the extra point attempt and the score at halftime read 19-6. 
Following the intermission the Irish put on their first long drive of the after­noon with Crotty leading the way to a score wliich climaxed 13 plays covering 66 yards. Stickles followed with his sec­ond extra point of the day. 
Southern Cal scored their final marker on a 67-yard march in nine plays and a penalty. Passes from Maudlin to Bob Voiles and Holden accounted for thirty of the yards but the rest of the distance was ground out by the Southern Cal backfield, with Maudlin himself taking it over fx-om the one for the tally. 
The Ii'ish were quick to x-etaliate how­ever -with Jim Just, Crotty, and Toth spai-king a 70-yax-d drive which ended in paydirt when Stickles caught the ball and crossed the goal on the same play used for his earlier score. He added his fifteenth point of the day when he con­verted to give the Irish a 33-12 lead A\ath ten minutes left to play in the game. 
Notre Dame's final score caixie as the Irish put together nine plays to cover 81 yards. Izo directed the max-ch, work­ing with Norm Odyniec, Bill Hickman and Bob Ward behind him and Jiixx Colo­sinio and Prendergast at the ends. With 
3:23 remaining Prendergast hauled down an eight-yard aerial for the final tally and Lewis added the point. 
Commenting on the game Brennan stated, "In px-evious games we have done some things well, but this is the first time everything blended into a polished attack." The victory was the 18th for the Irish over Southern Cal and squared Brennan's record against the Trojans at two and two. 
less than two minutes of the second half having been played. 
Mustangs Fall, 54-21 
After the Mustangs took the next 
by TED THOMPSON 
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 7—Notre Dame took advantage of Southern Methodist's mistakes to roll to a 54-21 victory before 51,000 fans in Dallas' Cotton Bowl here today. The Irish moved to four touch­downs following pass interceptions and two follo\ving fumbles in amassing their largest point total in ten years. Today's attendance brought the seasons total to 620,749, a new Notre Dame record by over 10,000. 
After spotting the Mustangs a touch­down in the first six minutes of the game on a 47-yard pass from sopho­more throwing sensation Don Meredith to halfback Lon Slaughter, the Irish roared back for four first half scores to take a commanding 28-14 halftime advantage. 
Follo^ving Slaughter's touchdown and Stan Eckert's first of three conversions, the Irish punted deep into SMU terri­tory and forced the Mustangs to kick. Dick Lynch took the punt at mid-field and moved the ball down to the 32. 
Sophomore quartei-back George Izo tossed to Bob Wetoska for a first down on the 16 after Lynch had gained three yards. Lynch then barrelled to the t%vo where he fumbled, but Dick Royer fell on the ball for Notre Dame. On the next play Chuck Lima bulled into the end zone, and Don White came in to kick the tying extra point. 
Two plays after the kickoif, Lynch picked off a Meredith pass on the SMU 40 and I'eturned it to the Mustang 27. Lima went for four before Williams con­nected with,Royer on the 15. Lima and Toth advanced the ball to the four where Williams went over on a quarterback option. Monty Stickles kicked the point, and the Irish had a 14-7 lead. 
Meredith's pass on the first play from scrimmage after the next kickoff was intercepted, this time by Williams, on the SMU 36. After an incomplete pass, Toth moved to the 21, and Williams passed to Stickles to give the Ii-ish first and goal to go on the nine. Toth plowed his way to the three, and on fourth and three, against a nine man line, Wil­liams went across on a quarterback sneak. 
SMU again lost the ball shortly after they took the visitors' kickoff. Meredith was hit hard by Dick Pi'endergast and fumbled. Bronko Nagurski fell on the ball 30 yards from the Mustang goal. After a fifteen yard penalty for having on ineligible receiver down field pushed the Irish back to the 45, speedster Pat in 9:8, took a pitch-out from Williams-and rambled ail the way for the score.' Stickles' point after gave the Irish their fourth touchdown in nine minutes and a 28-7 lead. 
Sub quarterback Charlie Arnold, who directed SMU to their 19-13 upset win over Notre Dame last year, came in and threw three straight strikes to right end Raleigh Harvey to put the Mus­tangs on the Notre Dame 20. After Arnold had engineei-ed the Mustangs to a first and goal situation on the Notre Dame nine, Frank Kuchta grabbed one of his passes on the one-half yard line. The Insh were unable to gain a first down and Pietrosante punted out. Wilemon returaed the kick to the Notre Dame 30, and Meredith hit Harvey on the ten for a first down. A personal foul by the Irish put the ball on the one and Jim Welch scored with but 22 sec­onds left in the half. Eckert then added the extra point. 
The Mustangs in the second half fumbled on the first play after taking Stickles' kickoff. Al Ecuyer recovered, and the Irish went the 23 yards in three plays, the last of which was an 18-yard scamper off-tackle by Doyle. Stickles missed with his extra point attempt with kickoff for the score in seven plays with the touchdown coming on an eight yard pitch from Meredith to Slaughtez', Jim Grotty took the kickoff on his own five-yard line and threaded his way up the sidelines to the SMU 25 before he was hauled down from behind. Eight plays later Toth shot across from the three. Stickles again converted. 
After an exchange of intexxepted passes gave Notre Dame the ball on their own 27, three carries by Nonm Odyniec, two completed passes by Wil­liams, and two personal foul penalties moved the ball to the one where Odyniec banged over. White. kicked the point, and the Irish led, 48-21. 
The last Irish score came on a two-yard plunge by Odyniec following a 67-yard drive. Ed Sullivan missed the extra point. 
The Irish amassed 403 yards in total offense for their largest figure this year. Williams hit on seven of eleven passes for 70 yai'ds, and Izo completed two of three for 62 yards while Doyle, Toth, Crotty, Lynch, Odyniec and the rest of the Irish backs scampered along the ground for 271 yards. 
Notre Dame, under Coach Terry Bren­nan and his staff, finished the year with an 7-3 record. Five of the Irish op­ponents, including the three teams that beat them, ended the year among the top ten teams in the countiy. 
Doyle, who has run the 100-yard dash 
CROTTY FUES OVER MUSTANGS 
%^-^ 
,\ > lux " 'j^iK' — •— ,.» -^ -w |—- ^^^ ^.^ ^i-**^ ^,<—e i«r>v .„„^ yf0m^0%^ ^f^0mit ""^^^^ Jp*"/ 
^>f*"»N^ ^a" ^ ^i^J^^^MBf TBP'>s*"^'i*f ''BW^^w^l * 
84> se 
.{&B 'I'^l 
58 87 58 35 23 48 
^-jf-ss-r 

'f*-^--r-'^>rA^-'m-i 
#fi^i' •'•'|i'^­
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish of 1957 
FIRST ROW —(I to r): Tom Gozdecki (Associate senior manager), Dick Shulsen, SECOND ROW—(I to r): John McFadden (Associate senior manager), Frank Pat Dolan, Dick Lynch, Bob Gaydos, Dick Prendergast, Ed Sullivan, Bob Ward, Reynolds, Dick Royer, Gary Myers, Al Ecuyer, Ron DeNardo, Bill Owens, Carl Aubrey Lewis, Chuck Lima, Frank Kuchta, John McGinley, Mart Allen (Head Hebert, Paul Djubasak, Bronko Nagurski, Bob Wetoska, Bob Williams, Frank Manager of Football). Geremia, Mike Muehlbauer. 
THIRD ROW —(I to r): Pete Salsich, Mike Dugan, Bill Hickman, Kevin Burke, FOURTH ROW—(I to r): Mike Gorham, OIlie Flor, Mike Lodish, Bob Pietrzak, Neil Seaman, Jim Colosimo, Chuck Puntillo, Don Lawrence, Norm Odyniec, Jim Pat Doyle, Dick Beschen, Don Costa, Charlie Fredricks, Lou Manzo, Dave Hurd, Schaaf, Ron Toth, Nick Pietrosante, Dick Selcer. Ken Adamson, Pat Healy, George Izo, Monty Stickles, Don White. 
FIFTH ROW—(I to r): Tom Rini, Doug McGinn, Bob Nicolazzi, Don McAllister, Paul Weber, Larry Pring, Jim Crotty, Ed Nebel, Bob Corson, Henry Wilke, Paul Loop, Bob Scholtz, John Quinn, Al Chonko, Gary Steckler, Al Sabal, John Harezcak. 
TIME OUT 
Three things put the Irish back on top this year. The first is the fine coaching job done by Coach Teriy Brennan and his staff. They were faced with building confidence into a team which won only two ball games last season and who weren't expected to do much better this year. They were faced with a schedule which would be tough for a team of seasoned seniors and burdened with the WIN attitude of Notre Dame fans all over the country. And they did win, far more than even the most loyal Irish fans could have hoped for. 
In particular we would like to cite the perfect coaching job against Oklahoma. The Sooners were so accurately scouted that they couldn't move the ball with any success. Notre Dame simply had men where the Okies wanted to go. 
Coach Brennan and his staff could have done no more than they did this season. The team was up for the big ones and up enough for the easier games. Sometimes they simply weren't good enough but at no time were they outcoached or outfought. 
The second reason for the winning season was the all-out effort given by every member of this years Irish squad. From the biggest stars to the last man, everyone did his best. 
This squad learned from their defeats last year, but most of all they learned that losing is not fun. Deserving of special mention is Dick Royer who seemed by far the most improved player on this year's club. There were many people who didn't think that Royer even belonged on the travel­ing squad, but this year he proved them wrong. Royer played fine defensive ball all season and was more than adequate on offense. 
This is not to discount any member of this fine club. They all did much more than anyone could ask of them. They will long be remembered for their fine comeback. 
The final reason for this fine season can be traced to the unending student support throughout the season. If you think that this Is just "gung­hoism" remember that one of the Irish coaches told every team member to go back to campus after the Oklahoma game and thank everyone he saw. 
NEXT YEAR 
Prospects for next season should be better than they have in the past four or five years. With almost everyone returning and a good freshman crop for support, the Irish should be among the nations leaders at the end of the '58 season. 
The juniors who played this season are proven veterans and will be even better next year, and the several sophomores who played some ball this year will profit as did last years' sophs. 
We expect Nick Pietrosante, Al Ecuyer and Jimmy Schaaf to make several All-America teams and Bobby Williams and Monty Stickles to be up there also. 
Pat Doyle and Jim Crotty showed fine potential in the last few ball games' and should play a great deal next season. 
So look for the Irish among the top three teams in the country in 1958, you won't be disappointed. 
THANKS 
We would like to offer a special thanks to all the college sports editors who so graciously made our All-America team the fine success that it was. We hope that it will, in time, gi-ow into something quite big.—M. F. 
December 13, 1957 
College Sports Ed 
(Story on pag 
PIETROSANTE 
KOWALCZYK STEPHEN V 

'*aiww)u'*jii\ii'ii.ui}.'^ii.^:^-.K,^..*.jiJi:..^^^^^ 
MICHAELS ECUYER 
PHILLIPS 
>A ^ 
itors All-America 
il. 
:;530, 31 and 38) 
.,4 
BRENNAN 

FORRESTAL 
CROW 

i^N KRISHER 
KARRAS 
GIBBONS 

Fischer is no stranger to Notre Dame football. In 1945 he was a tackle under 
The Irish Coaches Coach Hugh Devore. The next season. 
Coach Frank Leahy switched him to by JACK DOLAN guard, where he eventually won All-
When the tumult and shouting which 
followed Notre Dame's tremendous 
\'ictory over Oklahoma had long since 
ceased, one fact stood out in the minds 
of the sport public. The game had been 
a coaching triumph for the 3'oung head 
coach of the Irish, Terry Brennan, and 
his hard-working staif of assistants. 
The 1957 season presented quite a chal­lenge to 29-year old Terrence Patrick Brennan. After a dismal 1956 season, Brennan was faced with the problem of improving a team with virtually the same personnel, minus Ail-American quarter­back Paul Homung. Working ceaseless­ly. Coach Brennan and his assistants welded a team typical in the long line of "Fighting Irish" squads. Di'amatic victories over Army and Oklahoma high­lighted the great comeback. 
Success was nothing new to Coach Bi-ennan. He first made his mark on the Notre Dame scene •with four outstanding years (1945-48) as an Irish halfback. After graduating with honors in January 1949, Terry eni-olled in the Law School at DePaul University. While attending classes at the Chicago school, Bren­nan got his first taste of coaching. In 1950, 1951 and 1952, he accomplished the feat of directing Mount Carmel High School of Chicago to three consecutive city football championships. Following this, Brennan received his law degree in 1953 and was subsequently appointed assistant coach on the Notre Dame coach­ing staff. 
When Frank Leahy, his former coach here at Notre Dame, resigned for health reasons in 1954, the 25-year-old Brennan 
was named head football coach. In his first season, Terry's team won nine and lost one. No less than six members of that team received All-American honors. Brennan did a tremendous rebuilding job in 1955, winding up with a fine eight and two record. In this achieve­ment, he was named as the Washington Touchdown Club's "Coach of the Year." The disasterous 1956 campaign of two wins and eight losses could be chiefly attributed to inexperience and an almost unbelievable string of key injuries. Even in the gloom of a losing season, Brennan helped to develop the Heisman Trophy winner, Paul Hornung, and direct the East Team in the annual San Francisco Shrine Game. 
But 1957 Avas a different season for Terry and his staff. They met the chal­lenge successfully. As a reflection of the appreciation shown him by the student body, chants of "Brennan, Brennan, "Coach of the Year" were echoed in the Fieldhouse at the Iowa game pep rally. As young as he is. Coach Brennan has gained the complete respect of every member of the team. In their opinion and in the view of many closely con­nected with the game, it would take a pretty good argument to refute the chants of the students. 
The veteran among Coach Brennan's assistants in the point of continuous service is Bill Fischer. Fischer has finished his fourth season as tutor of the Irish tackles and guards. A great por­tion of the credit for the tremendous play of Al Ecuyer and Jim Schaaf this season can go to Fischer. 
American rating in his junior and senior 
years. A teanmiate of Coach Brennan, 
Fischer was honored by the Washington 
Touchdown Club as "the Outstanding 
College Lineman" of 1948. 
Always well-liked, Fischer not only captained the 1948 Irish varsity, but the victorious East team in the 1949 Shrine Game classic as well. He concluded his collegiate activity by being named the outstanding performer for the College All-Stars in the annual Chicago Tribune late-summer battle against the pro cham­pions. The Chicago Cardinals of the National Football League were happy to have Bill playing for them from 1949 until 1953. In two of those campaigns, he was named to the All-Pro team. 
Fischei', now thirty and a native of Chicago, married the former Miss Roma Kainer in 1949. In 1955 the couple had a son, William Michael. 
Bill Walsh has concluded his third season of handling the Irish centers. Jim Mense, Ed Sullivan and Frank Kuchta are among the players who have benefited from his teaching. Like Coaches Fischer and Zilly, Walsh played with Terry Brennan in their undergraduate days at Notre Dame. 
Bom Sept. 8, 1927 in Phillipsburg, 
N. J., Walsh vei-y early demonstrated his athletic versatility. He won nine letters in high school, pai-ticipating in football, baseball, basketball, and track. Playing center in football, he made All-State teams in both sports. 
Walsh studied at Notre Dame from 1945 to 1949. He distinguished himself as an iron man at the pivot position in the Irish line, playing in every one of 
HSCHER WALSH 
WITUCKI 
Football Review 

t * 
ZILLY 
I 
the 38 games during his four-year var­sity career. AValsh went on to play six seasons as offensive center for the pro­
fessional Pittsburgh Steelers. In three of these years, his brilliant play merited him All-Pro honors. 
Coach Walsh was awarded a degree in physical education from Notre Dame in 1949. He answered the call from his ex-teammate and classmate, and came back to his alma mater in 1955 as Brennan's line coach. 
On Feb. 9, 1949, Walsh married the former Dorothy Whoit. They have three daughters, eight-year-old Sharon, five­year-old Pati-icia, and one-year-old Cheryl. 
Switching from backfield coach to line assistant this year was Bernie Witucki. Like assistant Walsh, Witucki has now completed three seasons with Coach Brennan at Notre Dame. 
Witucki was born Feb. 25, 1911, in South Bend. After attending Central High School, he entered Noti'e Dame in 1930. Bernie transferred to George Washington University in 1932, and gi-aduated from there in 1935. He played center on the football teams of both schools. 
I 
Coaching has occupied almost all of his life. He was highly successful men­tor at South Bend Washington High School from 1935 to 1943. Witucki did a stint in the Navy from 1943 to 1946, and followed this up with two more years of coaching high school football in 
Evansville, Ind. In 1948, he became assistant coach of the Chicago Rockets of the professional Ail-American Con­
* si 
ference. Moving on to Tulsa University in 1949, Witucki completed the cycle of having coached in high school, college, and professional ranks. Until 1952, Witucki remained an assistant coach at 
1 December 13, 1957 
m 
CRIMMINS 
Tulsa, moving up to head coach for the 1953-54 seasons. He helped develop guard Marv Matuszak as an AU-Amer­ican performer. 
Married to the former Evelyn Nie­bauer of South Bend, Bernie has two sons. Jack and Bob, and one daughter, Judy. 
Much of the credit for the improved end play of the Irish this season can go to Jack Zilly. Jack is another of the coaching staff who was a teammate of Coach Brennan. 
Zilly was born Nov. 11, 1921, in Southington, Conn., where he attended high school and captained the football and basketball teams in his senior year. 
After being a monogram winner at end on the 1943 Irish varsity, he entered the Navy and sei-ved 34 months. He Avas discharged as a lieutenant, j.g., and came back to school at Notre Dame in 1946. He was a first string end on the national championship squad of that season. 
Zilly graduated from Notre Dame, and went on to compile a brilliant record as a defensive end with the professional Los Angeles Eams for five seasons. He finished out his pro career with a year with the Philadelphia Eagles. When John Druze moved on to Marquette in 1956, Jack answered Brennan's call and returned to his alma mater. Prior to this, Zilly was an assistant coach for one year at Montana State. 
Jack maiTied the former Eulalia 
O'Toole of Niles, Michigan. They have 
three boys, John, Patrick, and Michael, 
and two girls, Christine and Margaret. 
When plaudits were being given after the Irish's victory over Oklahoma, a great deal of credit was given to Bernie Crimmins for a tremendous scouting re­port on the Sooners. Crimmins had wi'itten an excellent and complete "book" 
STRAM 
on Oklahoma's strategy. But this was just one particular instance of the valu­able asset that Crimmins has been to the coaching staff, since his return to Notre Dame last March. 
Crimmins, a native of Louisville, par­ticipated in football, and baseball at St. Xavier High School. He enrolled at Noti-e Dame and distinguished himself by becoming the first Irish player in foot­ball history to win monograms at three different positions. Bemie was right halfback and fullback in 1939 and 1940 imder Coach Elmer Layden and became an All-American guard under Frank Leahy in 1941. In addition to his grid­iron prowess, he was captain and catcher on the 1942 Irish baseball squad. He captained the College All-Stars in 1942 against the professional champions in Chicago. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1942, Crimmins further distinguished himself as a Navy PT boat commander in the South Pacific. He was dis­charged in 1945 as a full lieutenant with a brilliant service record. He then played one season of pro football with the Green Bay Packers, and from 1946 to 1951 served as backfield coach at his alma mater. From 1952 to 1956, he was head coach at Indiana University. In addition, he has twice served as one of the North's coaches in the annual North-South charity game in Miami. 
Married to the former Dorothy Lin­nig, Crimmins is the father of three boys and two girls. The boys are Michael, Patrick, and Bernard, Jr., while the girls are Marilyn and Maureen. 
Henry (Hank) Stram has Just finished 
his first year as a Notre Dame coach. 
The improved work of the Irish back­
field this season can be partially attribut­
ed to his tutelage. 
(Continued on page 45) 

College Sports Editors' All-America 
Notre Dame and Iowa dominate the Second Annual College Sports Editors' All-America Football Team. The poll taken from 300 college sports editors across the country named guard Al Ecuyer and fullback Nick Pietrosante from Notre Dame and chose tackle Alex Karras and end Jim Gibbons from Iowa. 
T- -r.! -11-n K -u J i. 
Jim Phillips of Auburn was named at 
, , -, T -IT- 1. 1 ^ IT 4-1
end while Lou Michaels of Kentucky re­
• J XI XI-X 11 -X- A1 ceived the other tackle position. Along .,, T-. X J r.11 1. I with Ecuver at guard Avas Oklahoma's Bill Krisiier. The center nomination went to Don Stephenson of Georgia Tech. 
T, ,. X XI 1. 1 c 1J -xi -r>-X 
Roundmg out the backneld A\ath Pietro­,. .i.im -ri XT* saiite IS quarterback Tom Forrestal of 
•KT ITT IX T-1 1 r Ti/r-T.-
NaA'j^ Walt Kowalczj'^k of Michigan State and John Crow of Texas A&M. 
/-. 1 X J XT T>T »vciT> /M-i 
Crow was selected as the PLAYER OF 
^^^„^^.^, XT. o X -oj-x XT 
THE YEAR by the Sports Editors. He 
, xo-ii.-1--X 
was almost a 3-1 choice over his nearest 
. , TT 11 •, T> -u A J r
rivals, Kowalczvk and Bob Anderson of 
K rni. i.r J A - 1. iru 1
Army. The blond Aggie halfback was 
,, ;. , fpTiT XI 
the big reason why A&M was near the top of the national rankings throughout the season. Injured in the opening game 
FIRST TEAM  against Mai-yland, Ci-ow returned to  spark the Texans to the lead of the  Southwest Conference and first place in  the weekly polls until late season disaster  hit in losses to Eice and Texas. 
Phillips  E  Auburn 
Gibbons  E  Iowa 
Michaels  .....T  Kentucky 
Garros  T  Iowa 
Krisher  G  Oklahoma 
Ecuyer  ...G  Notre  Dame 
Stephenson  C  Georgia  Tech 
Forrestal  Q.B  Navy 
Crow  H.B  Texas  A&M 
Kowalczyk  .. H.B  Michigan  State 
Pietrosante  .. F.B  Notre  Dame 


 Terry Brennan of Notre Dame was  selected as the COACH OF THE YEAR.  The voting was closer than it was for  the player but Brennan beat out Ralph 
-^ •, . . , JT.IT. ^ £
 Jordan of Aubum and Paul Bryant of 
A PUT ixr j TT ^ ni,­

 Texas A&M. Woody Hayes of Ohio 
 „^ ^ j. xi 
 State Avas fourth. 
 Brennan brought his team from a  2-8 season to a 7-3 slate which in­
 eluded spectacular victories over Okla­, , * TT-^ j  homa and Armv. His four year record 
, i x «%.-. ^ 

 now stands at 26-14.  Second team selections at end were 
 Dave Kaiser of Michigan State and 
 T^. , T on %j •,• TT­
 Dick Lasse of Syracuse; Charlie Krueger 
. _, .p./ j r>\ r. •* At
 of Texas A&M and Bob Reifsnyder of 
 ._ ,,-,•, T^ TT , ^ T-^ i
 Navy at tackles: Dave Hoi'd of Duke 
,,,,«, ^ , . ^ , •,

 and Stan Slater of Army at guards: and 
/-,,,- -r. i / T.-X1 T. I X
 Charlie Brueckman of Pittsburgh at 
 ''^^e backfield lists Lee Grosscup of Utah at quarterback; Clendon Thomas of Oklahoma and Bob Anderson of Army  ^^ halfbacks; and Jim Bakhtiar of Vir­ginia at fullback. 
 Djck Wallen of UCLA and Bob Elling­ gen of Washington State head the third  team selections at end. The tackles are  Pat Burke of Michigan State and Jim  McCusker of Pittsburgh. The middle of  the line includes guards Bill Johnson of  Tennessee and Aurelius Thomas of Ohio  state along Avith center Dan Currie of  Michigan State. 
 The third team backfield has King Hill  ^f RJ^^ ^^ quarterback; Bob Sti-ansky of Colorado and Don Clark of Ohio State 
at halfbacks; and Jim Taylor of LSU at fullback. 
ABOUT THE FIRST TEAM 
Phillips was almost a unanimous se­lection at end. The lanky end was the big reason why Aubum went through their season undefeated and was chosen the top team of the country in one of the polls. Phillips is a senior and was a third team selection last year. 
Irish fans "will remember well Iowa's fine end, Jim Gibbons. He led the Hawk-eyes in pass-catches in all three years of his varsity competition. His most important touchdown was the one that gave Iowa victory over Ohio State in 1956 and sent the Hawkeyes to the Rose Bowl. 
Tackle Alex Karras was a unanimous Ail-American selection last season and was considered one of the best linemen in the Big Ten for the past two seasons. He is a success story in himself. Two years ago he failed to win a letter, over­weight and with an oversized opinion of himself, after he had been called poten-
SECOND TEAM 

Kaiser E Michigan State Lasse E Syracuse Krueger T Texas A&M Reifsnyder T Navy Hord G Duke Slater G.... Army Brueckman C Pittsburgh Grosscup .... Q.B Utah Thomas H.B Oklahoma Anderson .... H.B Army Bakhtiar F.B Virginia 
Second Team Baclcfield: ANDERSON, BAKHTIAR, GROSSCUP, THOMAS 
Football Review 

tially  the  greatest  lineman  since  Cal  ... .  ^®^^ running  back  to  come  out of the  
Jones.  Karras trimmed doAvn, his mental  Southwest since Doak Walker in the late  
attitude  switched  completely,  and  his  THIRD TEAM  1940's.  Among the post-season  awards  
football  improvements  astounded  the  Wallen  E  UCLA  Crow has been given the Heisman Tro­ 
coaches.  His record tells the rest.  c,,.  ,^  '  c  \A/"li.]"~V^^ c^i.^  pliy.  emblematic  of  "the  Outstanding  
._. ,  ,  ,, .  ­ ,  ,  ,.  cllingson  t. Washington otate  %. i,  .  ,  -r,  ,,  „  ^,  „  „  ..  ,  
Michaels  was a  tnird  team  selection  a  k  T  M'chiaan State  Collegiate Football Player of l9o7,  and  
last year but was listed on the first team  w ^  f"  j  P'ttsb  r  h  several of the press services' "player of  
of other selections. Michaels' iob in gain­ ,  •  ^  x  the year" awards.  He was also a decided  
,  ,, ,  ,  Johnson  L?  lennesse  ,  ,  .  ,,  _, ,.  _  ,  „, .  
mg recognition hasn t been easy because  ^,  ^  ^ . .  CJ. i  choice  m  the  College  Sports  Editors'  
,  ,  °  ,  .  T.  ^^  Ihomas  O  Unio  otate  i n  .  ­ j?  <iT-,i  ^,-,  

he has been playing on mediocre Ken-_ . -M'chiaan State All-America for Player of the Year. 
tucky elevens. The fact that he has u-n r\ o o-mi . , ^ . , , , 
11,, , . • J-J.-J: v "'" ^-o -"^'cs This past season. Crow cai-ned the ball reached the top is an indication of his -. . L,D r-\ j ,r.„..„-„^, "^"«" ,.,., T,T-1 1 • r. o • -P Stransky H.B Colorado 129 times for .D62 yards and scored six ability. Michaels is a 6-2 senior from -., . „ ,. ^ . . -. ,. TT % o^u^cu at^ 
Swoverville Pa Clark H.B Unio btate touchdowns. He was also a top de-
Krisher from Oklahoma was another "^"^'^^ ^•^-' '-°"'^'°"° State fensive player for the Aggies and two player who was practically a unanimous Z^^^-T, T ' ^?^ professional Chicago selection on this year's team. A senior Cardmals first draft choice, from Midwest City, Okla., he has already For two seasons, Tom Forrestal has Keti-osante, though incurring a rib made several All-America teams and been one of the nation's leadmg passers. .^^^^ ^ ^^^^ jj^^^,^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^^ made SPORTS ILLUSTRATED'S elite He quarterbacked Navy to a 6-1-2 record ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^.^^ j^^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ 
eleven as a junior. Krisher is an out-^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ '57 campaign as Notre Dame's leading 
year blocked Clendon Thomas to the ^^^^^^^H|^H||^^^^^H ^^'^^ especially dependable in picking up 
Ecuyer is the only junior on the team ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^H ponent's goal line. In the Army game, other than Pietrosante. As a linebacker ^^^^^H^^^^^f^^^ " ^^^^ H particularly, he displayed his fine speed for the Irish, he led the team in tackles. ^^^^^^^^^p|B(||fe ' '^^^^^^H "^^"l^en he outdistanced the Cadet defend-He was fourth in tackles last season but ^^^^^^^^^^p''^^!^^^^^^H^^^H ^''^^ ^^ score a decisive touchdown on a 
sat out part of the season Avith in-^I^V^^^^^^P^^^^^^^SR^^^H 6.5-yard run in Notre Dame's two-point 
over the previous season. With another ^^^HH^p;"^' --'^^?''^^^^^^^^^H ABOUT THE SECOND TEAM 
Stephenson was the captain of this ^^i^^HH^^^^^ I seasons. He played his freshman ball at 
year's Georgia Tech eleven. He led the ^'%^^H^^^^^^^^ B Noti-e Dame and then transferred to team in tackles from his linebacker posi-'^^^^^^^^^^ H MSU. Kaiser will best be remembered tion and was equally as effective on ' '"•^nk^^^^B ^^^' ^^^ 41-yard field goal in the last offense. His best afternoon this season >^ '' '^ ^ ^ seven seconds to beat UCLA in the 1956 was against Duke when he called a ^^^^^^^^^^ Rose Bowl. perfect defensive game, made ten tackles " oniccMvr^ei. Lasse led the Syracuse pass receivers himself and made good on 59 of 69 block-REIFSNYDER ^^^^j^ -^g catches good for 202 yards which ing attempts. For his play in this game, n,ay not rank high nationally but is a the Associated Press named him LINE-j^st season and a 8-1-1 slate this past ,^ ^ , ^ „„, MAN OF THE AVEEK. year. The Middies lost an early season (Continued on Page 38) 
game this year to North Carolina and ,. „ _ , tied Duke the week after they had -l*"".'. . \^^-%•; trounced Notre Dame. It was after the victory over the Irish that his coach Eddie Erdelatz called him a "real AU-American." 
Kowalczyk has been heralded as an Ail-American since his high school days. In his sophomore year, he was the Spar­tans top rusher with 584 yards on 82 attempts for a 7.1 rushing average. He 
.sparked MSU in the Rose Bowl in '56 and was selected as the game's most valuable player. 
His eagerly awaited junior season

BRUECKMAN 
proved unsuccessfixl when he suffered a 

December 13, 1957 crippling ankle and foot sprain in an early fall scrimmage. He never fully recovered from the injury until after the 
andseasonled thewasA&M'sovei*.SpartansCrowButothia fine 9-1 season.the
"Sprinting Blacksmith" returned to form

Texas past year, lASSE
is probably 

Next Year's Schedule 
by TOM BATES 

The 1958 Notre Dame football schedule 
will find the Irish meeting eight of their 
1957 opponents plus two newcomers. One 
of these newcomers—North Carolina— 
has appeared on the Irish schedule in 
years past. 
However, the other new opponent, 
Duke, is among the Irish football ad­
versaries for the first time. Dropped 
from the schedule for 1958 are Michi­
gan State and Oklahoma. 
To open their 70th season, Notre Dame will meet Indiana here on September 27. The Hoosiers, Avho lost to the Irish 26-0 this fall, can go nowhere but up in the football world; for in 1957 the problems they faced were a suspended head coach, disciplinary troubles, players quitting, and a new offensive system. 
Nevertheless, in their last game of this season, of the 35 players used, 27 were sophomores and juniors. 17 were in the latter group. Heading the • re­turnees will be quarterback Tom Mc­Donald and halfback Dave Whitsell. Whitsell averaged over seven yards a carry against the Irish this fall and McDonald completed seven passes against Notre Dame for 84 yards. Bolstei-ing the Indiana line Avill be center John Razmic. 
Following the contest with Indiana, the Irish will travel to Dallas, Texas, for an October 4 engagement ^vith Southern Methodist. The Mustangs have once more come up with an outstanding passer—this time tall (six-foot-three) Don Meredith. Meredith, in one contest this season, made good on 17 of 20 passes. 
Other Mustang backs returning will 

be Sam Shelton, a halfback weighing 
only 154 pounds and fullback Dave 
Sherer. Returnees in the line are end 
Leon Rudolph, guard Tom Koenig, tackle 
Lee Yokum, and center Jerry Sharrock. 
To be missed by SMU will be Charley 
Jackson, one of the better halfbacks in 
the Southwest in 1957, and Willard Dew­
veall, a stand-out end. 
Army will visit Notre Dame on Oct­ober 11 for the third Irish game of the season. This is probably one of the most colorful series in the history of football although the Irish lead with 24 wins to seven wins for the Cadets. Four games have ended in a tie. 
Army veterans will be led by Ail-American halfback Bob Anderson, who scored two touchdowns against the Irish this season, one an 81-yard run. Another halfback who tallied against Notre Dame returns also. He is Pete Dawkins. Gil Roesler and Harry Walters are two more backfield men who Avill be return­ing. The biggest problem for Army will be to find a quai'terback to replace Dave Bourland who Avill graduate. He was one of the better field generals in the collegiate ranks in 1957. 
The Army line will feature tackles Fred Wilmoth and Maurice Hilliard, and end Don Usry. 
The Irish entertain Duke the following week, October 18. The Blue Devils finished the 1957 campaign with six wins, two losses, and two ties. They will represent the Atlantic Coast Con­ference in the Orange Bowl this January. 
Purdue, with returning backs galore, visits Notre Dame for a battle on October 

25. The Boilermakers will bring with them six of their first eight backs that played in their last game in 1957. Heading the group are quarterback Ross Fichtner and halfback Lenny Wil­son. Fullback Bob Jams and halfback Tom Barnett also return. 
End Tom Franckhauser and tackles 

Wayne Fanner and Nick Mumley are 
among the line veterans. However, 
center Neil Habig must be replaced. 
On November 1, the Irish will meet Navy at Baltimore. The Middies have defeated Notre Dame two seasons in a row. Navy \vi\\ be hit hard by gradu­ation in the spring, losing quarterback Tom Forrestal, ends Wayne McKee and Pete Jokanovich, and halfback Ned Oldham. Forrestal completed eight passes in 16 attempts for 166 yards against Notre Dame in this season's game. 
Vetei-an fullback Dick Dagampat and his understudy, Ray Wellborn, along with tackle Tony Anthony, are back for another season. Wellborn scored all three Navy touchdowns against the Irish in 1957. 
Another away game on November 8 finds the Irish at Pittsburgh. Pitt, who was a mediocre team in 1957, should be better in 1958 with their young quarter­backs now experienced. Returning at this post will be Bill Kaliden and Ivan Toncic. The Panthers also will have Joe Scisly, Dick Haley and Andy Sepsi to operate in the backfield at the halfback posts. Outstanding linemen back are 
(Continued on page 49) 

JOHN NOCERA BOB ANDERSON TONY ORTEGA 
A more recent football award is the Megaphone Trophy presented to the 

Irish Trophy Case 
winner of each Notre Dame-Michigan­

by BRUCE T. HUOT 
Many will say that football games and trophies are not won but lost. This is an excuse. In reality, they are earned. In gridiron lore, they are "fought for." 
Among the giant fossils of Notre Dame's football past stands the Jack F. Rissman trophy. It was the first na­tional gridiron championship award. The Irish retired the trophy by winning the national title three times—1924,1929 and 1930. The four year span between Notre Dame's first national championship and their second in 1929 found Dartmouth, Stanford, Illinois, and Southern Cali­fornia gaining an equal leg on the Irish. But in '29 and '30, sparked by Jack Elder, Fi-ank Carideo, and Marchy Schwartz, the cyclone from South Bend took two national titles and the Eissman trophy presented by the Chicago Sports­man. 
In return, Notre Dame sponsored the Knute Rockne trophy. Finally after ten years, in 1940, Minnesota gained per­manent possession ^\ath their third na­tional win. 
The third national championship gar­land, the Dr. Henry L. Williams trophy, was sponsored by the "M" Club of Minnesota. The Minnesota award was donated in memory of the man who coached the Gophers from 1900 to 1921. In 1941 Miimesota won their second straight national title and gained the first leg on their own trophy. In 1942 the Williams trophy was awarded to Ohio State and in '43 to Notre Dame. During the war years of 1944 and 1945 Army dominated the grid polls and had two national crowns toward permanent possession of the Miimesota prize. But in 1946 and 1947, under the taskmaster Frank Leahy and led by such men as Lujack, Brennan, Connor, Hart, Martin and Fischer, to name a few, the Irish snatched two national championships and retired the Williams trophy. 
Then came the J. Hugh O'Donnell trophy, named in memory of the late noted Notre Dame president who was a former Irish football player and first president of its Monogi-am Club. The O'Donnell trophy was taken for the third time and retired, last yeai-, by the Uni­versity of Oklahoma. 
Also among Notre Dame football relics rests the Northwestem-Notre Dame game shillelagh. In 1931 William T. Cosgrave, then President of the Irish Free State, presented a genuine Irish shillelagh to the University of Notre Dame. The winner of each Notre Dame-Northwestern game was to have pos­session of it until it was won back by the other school. Since 1931 Notre Dame has won possession 15 times and North­western twice. The 1931 game ended in a scoreless tie. 
State game. Jointly sponsored by the Notre Dame and Michigan State clubs of Detroit, the trophy was first pre­sented in 1949. 
The trophy was conceived with one half in blue with a gold ND monogram and the other half in white with a forest green MSU. Down the center from top to bottom a broad red stripe serves as a background for the past scores, dating back to 1897 when the series began, and for future scores. 
The Irish won the first trophy in '49 on the strength of their 34-21 win over the Spartans. The next three years, however, saw the Big Green dominate the Megaphone prize. The two squads didn't meet in 1953, but in '54 the Irish squeaked by State 20-19 and returned the trophy to Notre Dame. The next three years, 1955-56-57, found the Spar­tans regaining and holding on to the coveted award. 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State rivalry is also celebrated with a shill­elagh laurel. This is a genuine Irish persuader which started in 1954 as a personal trophy between Coaches Duffy Daugherty and Terry Brennan. Bren­nan captured it in '54, but Daugherty has held it ever since. 
The donnybrook which is emblematic of Notre Dame-Southern California bat­tles is marked by a genuine shillelagh from Dublin. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, the trophy was first presented in 1952. 
The shillelagh is made of dark polished wood and stands 18 inches high. The scores and dates of every Notre Dame-Southem California game played since the series was inaugurated in 1926 are recorded on the sides and head of the shillelagh. Irish victories are engraved on gold shamrocks while Trojan wins are marked on gold helmets. 
The Irish snared the trophy in '52 with a 9-0 victory over Jess Hill's club and retained the award for the next two years with 48-14 and 23-17 wins. SoutheiT. California gained it back in 1955 with a 42-20 win and kept it on the Pacific Coast in '56 with a 28-20 thrillex". The Irish, however, returned the shillelagh to Notre Dame this year with a 40-12 victory over the Trojans. 
A colorful new trophy was introduced in college football competition this year when: Notre Dame met Purdue. It is a genuine Irish shillelagh and is a gift of Joseph McLoughlin of South Bend. It is symbolic of victory in the annual head-knocking between the Irish and the Boilermakers. The Irish gained first possession of the trophy this year with 
a 12-0 victory over Purdue. 

LEAHY AND MILLER WITH O'DONNELL AWARD 
December 13, 1957 
years. This paper contains curi*ent sports news, as well as news on the cur­rent doings of the graduate letter-winners. 
sports Publicity 
by MIKE MATHEWS 
One of the biggest behind-the-scenes jobs during the football season falls to the Sports Publicity Office and its direc­tor, Charles M. Callahan. 
Callahan's football duties begin in late August, before the team starts practice. At this time, Callahan's office prepares the Notre Dame Dope Book, which is a preseason report on the Irish and their outlook. 
FOOTBALL NEWS RELEASES 
Then each week during the season, the Sports Publicity Office sends out 1200 six- to eight-page releases of football news to the leading newspapers, radio stations, and tele%nsion stations across the country. This is in addition to the smaller releases which are sent daily to the Associated Press, the United Press, the Indianapolis Star, and the Chicago Tribune. 
Callahan's office also has the responsi­bility for making up the football pro-gji:ams for each of the home games, and for sending the necessary program infor­mation to the publicity offices of the away schools. 
Each week during the season, Calla­han's office sends out stories of ten or twelve of the team members to the play­ers' home town papers. Such stories are sent out twice seasonally in other sports, as well. 
UP IN THE PRESSBOX 
Before each home game, Callahan must plan the seating of almost 800 sportswriters, photogi-aphers, and radio and TV sportscasters who must watch the Irish from the pressbox. Then dur­ing the game, he must furnish these men with mimeographed copies of the quarter play-by-play reports, the half-time and final game statistics, and other necessary information. 
"Charlie" as he is known to all in the publicity trade, rarely sees a complete ball game. Instead he is busy making sure that his guests receive the infor­mation which they desire. A visitor to 
almost anywhere, occasionally stopped 
to watch the action on the field, then 
back to work. 
Callahan has often commented that 
though there are only five home games 
each year, the Notre Dame press facil­
ities are judged on these games. Every­
thing must run smoothly, and it does. 
PLAYER PHOTOGRAPHS 
On top of these fixed duties, the Sports Publicity Office must send out some 30 or more pictures of players each week to fans who request them, and must also distribute to the players all the fan mail which the office receives for them. 
Each spring and fall, Callahan and his office put out 1500 copies of the Monogram News which they send to Notre Dame monogram winners of past 
Of course, when the football season ends, Callahan's job is not over. He must ready, himself for the job of publi­cizing basketball and the other major sports here at Notre Dame. But the hardest part of the year is behind him, and he can relax for a minute now and then, which is more than he can do dur­ing the autumn. 
TWELVE YEARS AT ND 
The close of the 1957 football season marked Callahan's twelfth year as Notre Dame's sports publicist. He grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1938, and took up his present duties here in 1946, after serving in the Air Corps during the second World War. In addition to his publicity work here, Callahan wi-ites a weekly sports column for Our Sunday Visitor, a Catholic newspaper with na­tional circulation. 
OFFICE CREW 
Callahan is assisted by his personal secretary, Miss Dee Eobles, and also by an assistant secretary during the foot­ball season, Mrs. Eleanor Vanderhagen. In addition to this staff, there ai*e sev­eral students who work in the office. This year's student assistants are two seniors, Joe Bride, of Eockville, Md., and Don Ruhl, of St. Louis, Mo., and a sophomore, Tom Bates, of Meadville, Pa. 
the Notre Dame Press Box may find him 
CHARUE CALLAHAN, SPORTS INFORMATION DIREaOR 
Football Review 

Final 1957 Season Statistics 
TEAM 
Notre Dame Opponents 
200 Points Scored 136 153 First Downs 145 104 by Rushing 98 44 by Passing ... 38 5 by Penalties 9 1915 Yards Rushing 1859 520 Times Carried 466 
3.9 Yards per Try 4.0 1055 Yards Passing .. .. 933 166 Passes Attempted 176 79 Passes Completed 73 .476 Completion Percentage . 415 16 Passes Intercepted by .-13 158 Yards Interceptions Ret. 71 2970 TOTAL OFFENSE ... 2792 
52 Punts 56 1888 Total Yards Punts .... 1954 
36.3 Punting Average 34.9 
122 Yai'ds Punts Returned . 226 28 Fumbles 37 14 Ball Lost 15 
SCORING 
TD PAT FG Pts. Stickles 3 11 1 32 Lynch 5 0 0 30 Williams 4 0 0 24 Toth 3 0 0 18 Doyle 3 0 0 18 Pietrosante 2 0 0 12 Reynolds 2 0 0 12 Lima 2 0 0 12 Odyniec 2 0 0 12 Lewis 110 7 Just 10 0 6 Grotty 10 0 6 Prendergast 1 0 0 6 White 0 5 0 5 
PASSING  
Att.  Comp. Had Int. Yds.  TD  Pet.  
Williams ....106  53  5  559  3  .500  
Izo  37  17  4  367  3  .459  
Reynolds ....  8  4  2  58  0  .500  
Dugan  2  2  0  29  0  1.000  
Lynch  5  2  1  26  0  .400  
White  2  1  1  10  0  .500  
Lewis­ ...,.-..  2  0  0  0  0  .000  
Selcer  '  2  0 '  0  0  0  .000  
Just  2  0  0  0  0  .000  
December  IS,  1957  

PASSES CAUGHT 

No. Yds. TD 
Lynch 13 128 0 Stickles 11 183 3 Wetoska 8 141 0 Prendergast 8 129 1 Colosimo 7 103 0 Reynolds 7 68 1 Royer 6 71 0 Myers 4 40 0 Pietrosante 4 5 0 Lewis 2 96 1 Selcer 2 29 0 Just 2" 12 0 Odyniec 1 20 0 Doyle 1 16 0 Ward 1 11 0 Lima 15 0 Toth 1-2 0 
PASS INTERCEPTIONS 

No. Yds 
Williams 3 28 Doyle 2 28 Izo 2 6 Lewis 1 36 Just 1 15 Ljmch 1 13 Ecuyer 1 12 Reynolds 1 9 Lima 1 6 Odjniiec 1 5 Kuchta _.... 1 0 Pietrosante 1 0 
Passes Broken Up 

(Leaders only) Lynch and Just, (6), Pietrosante (5), Scholtz, Reynolds, and Crotty (3), Stickles (2). 
Tackles 

(Leaders only and includes as­sists) Ecuyer (88), Schaaf (87), Scholtz (60), Royer (46), Lawr­ence (45), Puntillo (42), Pietro­sante (37), Reynolds (37), Na­gurski (34), Lynch (29), Stickles (27), Wetoska (26), Kuchta (23), Toth (20), Williams (19), Just (19), Djubasak (19). 
Opponents Fumbles Recovered 
Pietrosante, Scholtz, and Ecuyer (2); Hurd, Izo, Lynch, Lewis, Williams, Reynolds, Toth, Puntil­lo, Kuchta, McGinley, and Na­gurski (1). 
KICKOFFS RETURNED 
No. Yds. TD 
Lynch 6 163 0 Doyle 2 114 1 Williams 6 102 0 Reynolds 4 92 0 Crotty 2 91 0 Just 3 60 0 Lewis 1 21 0 Pietrosante 1 18 0 Wetoska 1 13 0 
RUSHING 
TC Yds. Avg, 
Pietrosante 90 449 5.0 Lynch 77 287 3.8 Toth 49 214 4.4 Reynolds 66 191 2.9 Just 36 169 4.7 Williams 62 144 2.3 Doyle 16 120 7.5 Lima 34 100 2.9 Selcer 12 85 7.1 Crotty 14 69 4.9 Odyniec 11 62 5.6 White 14 47 3.4 Lewis 11 20 1.8 Hickman 2 10 5.0 Wilke 1 2 2.0 Hebert 1 . 1 1.0 Dugan 2 -2 -1.0 Ward 1 -12 -12.0 Izo 21 -41 -2.0 
PUNTING 
No. Yds. Avg. 
Pietrosante 39 1544 39.6 Lynch 1 38 38.0 Izo 8 204 25.5 Williams 4 102 25.5 
PUNTS RETURNED 
No.  Yds.  Avg.  
LynchReynoldsLewis -...Just  ­ 4 3 2 3  43 30 2T 12  10.75  10.0  13.5  4.0  
DoyleScholtz  1 1  9 1  9.0  1.0  
35  


M. 
Behind the Irish 
by TIM O'REILLY 
Because of its position in supplying the other athletic teams with funds. Foot­ball at Notre Dame must be a well run and coordinated operation. Behind the scene in this network is a group of men without whose help football at ND would not be the smoothly run system that it is. 
Each of these men is in charge of a department which may not be as well known to the casual observer as the coaching staff; but without the valuable contributions of these men and their staffs it is very probable that there would be no great football tradition at this University. 
EXECUTIVE VEEP 
Most people know The Reverend Ed­mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., as the executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, but what they may not know is that he also serves as the chairman of the Univer­sity's Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
Father Joyce graduated from ND in '37, entered the priesthood, and after his ordination returned to the University to become vice-president in charge of busi­ness affairs. In the spring of 1950 he was appointed acting vice-president, but a year's advanced study at Oxford Uni­versity in England interrupted this duty. He returned to ND and assumed his foi-mer office which he held until he was made executive vice-president in the spring of 1952. 
Possibly the best example of Father Joyce's feeling toward athletics at Notre Dame can be seen in a speech which he delivered at the testimonial banquet given for the football team of 1954. In his address Father Joyce stated, "We can indeed be proud of their accomplishments on the gridiron. But what is even more important, the University is proud of 
FATHER EDMUND JOYCE 

the qualities of mind and heart that characterize the vast majority of the boys who wear the Notre Dame mono­gram on the playing field." In these few words the whole spirit of football at Notre Dame is reflected. 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR 
Edward W. Krause, better known as "Moose", has been Athletic Director of the Fighting Irish since March of 1949. A graduate of Notre Dame, he was an All-American in both football and basket­ball from 1931 to 1938, one of the few athletes who has ever achieved such recognition. 
Following graduation in 1934, Krause became Athletic Director and coach of all sports at St. Mary's College of Win­ona, Minn. Five years later he went to Holy Cross as line coach under Joe Sheeketski, a foi-mer Notre Dame team­mate. In 1942 he returned to his alma 
CAHILL 

mater as line coach, and in the winter of 1942-43 he became head basketball coach. 
"Moose's" coaching duties were in­terrupted by tvvo years service in the Marines during the war, in the Pacific. Upon discharge he resumed his coach­ing duties, and his basketball teams from '46-'49 compiled the record of 54 wins and only 18 losses. 
In Feb. of 1948 Krause Avas appointed Assistant Athletic Director at Notre Dame, relieving Frank Leahy of many administrational duties. At the time his appointment was announced it was stated that "Moose" would relinquish his foot­ball coaching chores but would retain his position as head basketball mentor. However in March 1949 he was ap­pointed Athletic Director and shortly thereafter gave up his coaching duties in order to devote himself full time to his duties as head of all athletics at Notre Dame. 
TICKET MANAGER 
One of the most valuable pieces of pasteboard on a Fall Saturday afternoon is a ticket to a Notre Dame football game. The man responsible for selling them is Robert Cahill, the ticket mana­ger for the Fighting Irish. His job begins months in advance of a football season when applications begin pouring in from all over the country from thousands of alumni and fi'iends. Each July his staff expands to a 14-man force who begin to process the applications for more than 500,000 tickets. This is often a thankless job, for there are only about 300,000 seats to distribute during a sea­son. Holding such a position has its headaches and Mr. Cahill says that his gi-eatest satisfaction comes from "keep­ing complaints down to a minimum." 
KRAUSE 
Football Review 

An ND gi-ad of 1934, Cahill assumed his position in '41, after serving several years as assistant to Elmer Layden, former Athletic Director and Head foot­ball coach. His tenure as ticket mana­ger was interrupted for three years during the war when he served in the Navy as communications officer. 
It seems incongruous that a man such as Cahill, who is so instrumental in Notre Dame football, doesn't often get a chance to see a game. Saturday aftex'­noon the ticket manager stays in the boxoffice attending to any complications that may arise in the seating. Naturally being in charge of all tickets has its trying moments, when someone is de­manding tickets which just aren't avail­able; and also its humorous ones. Cahill gets away from all his paste­board troubles by ' playing a relaxing game of golf, when he can find time. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Herb Jones, a graduate of the class of 1927, is the man who handles the business end of Notre Dame athletics. He has handled this job since his ap­pointment to the post in 1940. He was Knute Rockne's seci-etary during his stii­dent days and became assistant business manager upon graduation, a position which he held imtil his promotion to his present job. Herb also served as Uni­versity business manager during the 194.5-46 school year. 
During the football season Jones' duties include such tasks as arranging for 900 ushers, gatemen, repairmen and messengers to be on hand to handle the large crowds which descend on the sta­dium each home game. He also sees to the ordering of sports equipment, makes up the school's various athletic contracts, and arranges all the teams' trips, travel schedules, and hotel reservations. 
JONES 
Herb must approve any bill connected with athletics before it can be paid. This includes hospital and doctor bills, travel expenses, for athletic officials on Uni­versity business, and equipment invoices, from fencing to golf. 
Another part of Mr. Jones' duties is supervision of the fieldhouse. All field-house presentations, be it a basketball game or a musical concert, must be cleared through his office. Any aspect of the business end of athletics at Notre Dame must be dealt with through Mr. Jones' office. 
EQUIPMENT MANAGER 
John M. McAllister, who is in his 31st year as equipment manager at ND, has probably scared more freshmen athletes on first meeting him, than any hulking member of the varsity. His job is to see to the tremendous job of supply to all athletes on the various teams with equipment: towels, shoes, and the like. Now in his 71st year, McAllister has held his position since the days of Rockne. 
Through the equipment manager orders for athletic gear ai-e put into the business manager's office. McAllister oversees the packing of the trunks when the different teams travel, seeing that each and every bit of necessary equip­ment is readily available. 
Helping McAllister dispers e the equipment are senior and junior mana­gers who gain valuable experience work­ing under the dean of equipment mana­gers. 
TRAINER 
In any athletic competition there can be expected a certain amount of bruises and sprains, and the man who remedies these injuries is a valuable member of any athletic staff. Gene Paszkiet is now in his sixth year as head trainer of Notre Dame teams. An expert trainer. Gene uses, in addition to the ready supply of tape and liniment, diathenny machines, whirlpool baths, infra-red and* ultra-violet lamps to. get players back into action. 
A South Bend native. Gene graduated from ND in 1950. Previous to this he saw action in the Coast Guard with three years sei-vice in World War II, in the European theater. While at Notre Dame he became student assistant to Irish trainer, Hughie Burns, and upon graduation became head trainer at New York University. In 19.52 he succeeded Bums at ND. 
On his shoulders rests the physical shape of the Irish teams, a job which he handles very competently. 
(Continued on page 4-5) 
PASZKIET 
MCALLISTER 

CALLAHAN 
December 13, 1957 
All-America 
(Continued fi-om Page 31) 
good mark for a team that depends upon a good ground attack. As a member of the 1956 Cotton Bowl team, he was named the top Syracuse lineman. This season, he was named the best lineman in the games with Iowa State, Nebraska, Pittsburgh and West Virginia. Pitts­burgh coach, John Michelosen called Lasse the best end the Panthers faced all season. 
Eeifsnyder played at both tackle and center this season for the Middies. It was his lineplay that sparked the Mid­dies to decisive \\4ns over Notre Dame and Ai-my. Only a junior, he spells trouble for all Navy opponents next year. 
Krueger, along with Crow, was the main reason for the Aggie's success this year. An outstanding lineman in the Southwest Conference, he is one of the top defensive stars to come out of that section of the country in a long while. In Dave Hord, Duke has come up with its first AU-American in several seasons. 
"Sonic" oxford dress shirt, modi-spread button-down collar, English cuffs. 
Those who watch the Blue Devils against Oklahoma will see just why Hord has made his presence felt in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Stan Slater is a second team repeat from last year's squad. The Cadets lost only to Noti-e Dame and Navy and a great amount of the success has been given to him. 
Charlie Brueckman is Pittsburgh's best center in 25 years. As co-captain this year, he anchored the big Panther line. Last year, he was the ninth draft choice of the San Francisco Forty Niners. 
Army coach Earl Blaik sums up just what everyone has been saying about quarterback Lee Grosscup. Says Blaik: "He is the best passer in college football today and I believe he's even better then the famed Sid Luckman. Grosscup could make any pro team in the country and I believe he has a bettei", sti'onger and more accurate throwing arm then Luck-man had. I got the impression he could hit his receiver anyAvhere on the field." 
Grosscup, a junior, hit on almost 70 per cent of his passes this past season. His greatest day this year was against 
Only at 
100% 

Colorado State. He threw 13 passes and completed twelve in one of the worst snow storms that a Utah team has ever played in. 
Ai-my's Anderson was the nation's fki leading scorer with 14 touchdo^vns and broke Glen Davis' all-time rushing record at West Point of 930 yards. The speedy sophomore gained almost 1,000 yards this season. His longest inin this season was for 81 yards against Noti-e Dame. Blaik calls him the "finest running sopho­more I have seen since Davis." 
Clendon Thomas broke three Sooner scoring and rushing records this year in the final game against Oklahoma State. He broke the career rushing mark held by Billy Vessels with 162 yards for a career total of 2,120 yards. Vessels had 2,085. He broke the touchdown record with two against State to give him a three year total of 36. He also scored a record 216 points. 
Bakhtiar led the Atlantic Coast Con­
ference in rushing and was just a yard 
away from leading in total offense. He 
picked up over 800 yards rushing for 
better than a four-yard average.—J. G. 
 Max Adiers! 
 COTTON 
Sonic Dress Shirts 
in white broadcloth or oxford 
$'1.95 
3 
Complefe Wash 'n Wear . . . NO Ironing 
The final solution to the problem of always having a clean shirt available. . . . Sonic dress shirts wash in a jiffy and dry on a hanger in only 40 minutes. Ocean pearl buttons. Sizes 14-17 neck, 32-35 sleeves. 
"Sonic" broadcloth dress shirt, modi-spread MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON permastay collar, English cuffs. 
A Campus-to-Career Case History 
V-y,- ^<Slr^ 
>--''. 
•y > 
. ^ -wv ••••% 
' ' •y'^^ " 

^ ','|t^>^;X^ "'^,, . i J£. ^"^-^ ­
A^ %
* <~3> viv * ' 

^.' ^ '-..: 1, ^^^^». 
' % J-. f^-ir-^-f
", , 

. ^'^'"^^J:J;^ 
v ^ v-r4»^-'• 
--V \
^ 

^ •.-.^f-!'^ it.
; 
< 

\ •yv-*% i ^ s -. 
"^^-^%:^v^>:^^^^^ 

% '^-^ '•• \ ^ % 
1 ^ :m 
ii I looked at all the angles" 
Howard R. Winter, B.B.A., Texas Southwestern Bell's Conunercial De­
A. & M., '51, is now a Commercial partment. "It was natural for me," he Manager with Southwestern Bell Tele­says. "I have a business background, phone Company in Houston, Texas. I like to sell and make contacts. 
He's in charge of 30,000 telephone "My training gave me a really solid accounts and a staff of 36 people. 
foundation in the business. Two years 
Howard's interest in a telephone in the Army interrupted it, by the way, career dates from his first interview but the two years were credited to my with a telephone company representa­telephone company records and count tive. "I looked at all the angles," he toward all benefits. After I'd returned says. "We discussed pay and chances and finished my training,' I was made for advancement, which looked excel­a business office supervisor. And since lent because of the rapid growth of February, 1956, I've been a Com­the Bell System. We talked about mercial Manager in Houston. Each many different kinds of Avork, and assignment I've had has been a real about what would be expected of me." challenge and has presented a tre­
mendous opportunity to contribute to 
After receiving his degree in busi­and advance in the business." 
ness administration, Howard joined 
Be sure to investigate the career opportunities for you in the 17 Bell Telephone Companies serving all 48 stales. On your campus the local company represents the others. For more information about these career opportunities, read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Place­ment Office, or write for "Challenge and Opportunity" to: BELL. College Employment Supervisor, American Telephone TELEPHONE and Telegraph Co., 195 Broadway, New York 7, New York. COMPANIES 
i^<\ 

December 13, 1957 
I 
-.1 
-m 
Graduation will take its toll on the depth of the 1958 Notre Dame football team. This year's seniors performed capably, at times brilliantly, throughout the successful campaign. 
Leadei-s among the group were the co-captains, Ed Sullivan and Dick Pren­dergast. Sullivan, who led the Irish in tackles in 1956 was hampered by a wide assortment of injuries and missed most of the past season. Despite the fact that his personal season was not up to ex­pectations, Sullivan proved to be an in­spirational leader and a fine captain. 
Co-captain Dick Pi-endergast rounded out a highly successful college career with a sti-ong 1957 performance. The rugged end was known chiefly for his defensive work and much of the success of the defense could be attributed to him. 
Perhaps the most successful senior on last year's squad was halfback Dick Lynch. The Bound Brook, New Jersey athlete, who doubles as University light-heavy-weight champ, carried the ball more than any other Irish back and Avas the team's leading scorer. The elusive Lynch also led the Irish in pass recep­tions and was deadly on defense. 
An early season knee injury deprived Notre Dame of the services of guard Bob Gaydos. The Donora, Pennsylvania, senior earned monograms in both his 
40 
AUBREY LEWfS DICK PRENDERGAST ED SULLIVAN 
Irish to Miss Fourteen Seniors 
by DICK DONOVAN 

sophomore and junior seasons and was counted on for heavy duty in '57. Until the fateful Army game, Gaydos had been outstanding and the injury suffered against the Cadets seriously weakened the guard corps. 
Fullback Chuck Lima along with junior Eon Toth gave Nick Pietrosante valuable relief. Lima, who was a regu­lar in 1956, was chiefly effective as a blocker and his defensive work from the corner-linebacking slot was outstanding. 
Notre Dame's 1957-58 track captain, Aubrey Lewis, showed flashes of his oft-predicted brilliance, despite a hamper­ing ankle injury. In the bitter Pitt game, the New Jei-sey speedster teamed with sophomore George Izo in a spectacu­lar 74-yard pass play which pz'ovided the margin in the 13-7 victory. 
Halfback Bobby Ward failed to match his brilliant 1956 season, but perfoi-med capably in spot assignments. The 5-8 scatback, however, is chiefly remembered for his 84-yard kickoff return in the 1956 Pittsburgh game. 
Until 1957, Paul Djubasak was just another number on the Irish bench. But this year Djubasak finally received his much-deserved chance and filled in ably as a replacement for both Al Ecuyer and Jim Schaaf. 
Fi-ank Kuchta made his first start in 
1957 a memorable one. The little used center performed so brilliantly against Oklahoma that he Avas overwhelmingly selected "Lineman of the Week" by the Associated Press. 
Senior Carl Hebert was another 1957 surprise. His work on defense, while limited, was eflFective, and his pass de­fending ability will be missed in '58. 
Another of 1956 regulars who was injui-ed for most of this season is John McGinley. McGinley was perhaps the most improved lineman last year and was counted on for a great deal of sei-vice. But injuries kept him shelved for most of the season. McGinley is a resident of Indianapolis, and has been a finalist in the Bengal Bouts for the past two years. 
Pat Dolan, who saw limited action in his first two years, showed up well in early season play. The husky tackle was especially impi-essive on defense and was the only senior among the top tackles. 
Two unsung members of the 1957 Varsity wei-e fullback Ron DeNardo and end Bill Owens. Neither participated in any action this year, but both were awarded service monograms. 
The 1958 Irish will suffer through graduation, although Coach Brennan hopes the current freshmen will plug the gap. These seniors Avill be remembered as part of the team that put the Fighting Irish back on the football map. 
Football Review 
SiiiSiiii^B^&i 
Bob Koreck, Paul Nissi, Gary Gierok, and Frank Salerno. The latter two 
Future Irish Greats 
by GEORGE CLEMENTS 
The football picture at Notre Dame for 1958 takes on added lustre when the impact that this year's freshman squad will have in the future gridiron fortunes of the Fighting Irish is considered. 
Sixty-five freshman football players, described by their coach, Lou Loncaric, as having "good size, speed, and com­petitive spirit" attest to the fact that 
'A 
there is definitely no de-emphasis of football at Notre Dame. 
Loncaric and Spike Kelly, former coach at Riley High in South Bend, have been drilling this large team since the middle of September. Fundamentals have been stressed although a good deal of the practice time was taken up with scrimmages against the varsity. The freshmen usually serve as defense units but occasionally they ran the plays of next Saturday's opponent in order to help sharpen the Irish defense. 
^ 
The varsity coaches have been unable to get a real good look at the freshmen but what they have seen they've liked. Coach Terry Brennan felt that this is a "good group" capable of giving the re­turning varsity players a strong battle for positions in the spring workouts. 
Two of the most impressive players in the fall practice sessions have been Bill Mack and Myron Pottios. Mack is a six-foot, 175-pound halfback from Allison Park, Pa. Besides being a hard runner, Mack has demonstrated an abundance of determination and aggressiveness. Pottios is a strong 6-2, 215 pounds and hails from Van Voorhis, Pa. He excells on defense in his middle linebacker position while also showing great abilitj' as a hard-running fullback. 
Dan Griffith, 5-10, 185, who played ball at Fenwick High in Chicago, and Mike Baer, who stands 6-2 and weighs 205, are the other leading fullback can­didates. Baer played at Cardinal Mind­szenty High School in Dunkirk, N. Y. 
Two other halfbacks that have shown great promise are Ray Ratkowski, 6-1, 185, of Queens, N. Y., and Bob Scar­pitto, 5-11, 180, who comes from Rah-way, N. J. Both boys are very fast, can run the 100-yard dash under ten seconds, and have the potential of scoring from any part of the field. 
The Nebel twins, John and Bill, from Mt. Clemens, Mich., are also leading half­back candidates. They are identical in height at six feet and weight with an even 180 pounds. Their older brother 
Ed was an end on this year's varsity. 
Loncaric, who earned a senior mono­

gram last year as a center, also men­
tioned Tim Ansberry, Dick O'Leary, and 
Frank Garguilo as showing potential. 
Ansberiy, 5-11, 180, is from Lakewood, 
0., while O'Leary, 6-0, 180, is a resident 
of Terre Haute, Ind. Garguilo, a little 
heavier at 190, was hampered by an 
injury for part of the season. 
Freshman quarterback candidates are 

about even this year with no particular 
individual standing out. However, that 
doesn't mean that Notre Dame will suffer 
in the future from the lack of a good 
quarterback, but rather the contrary. A 
number of players with equal but out­
standing ability makes for needed stiff 
competition, Loncaric pointed out. 
This year's group of ball-handlers has a rather unusual characteristic in that three of the boys are left-handed, Jack Castin, Jack O'Brien, and Bob Schmidt. The freshman coach rates the latter as the best passer on the squad. He is a rangy 6-4 and hails from Bakersfield, Cal. Castin is from Okmulgee, Okla., and O'Bi-ien is from Cleveland. Both have identical six-foot, 180-pound measurements. 
Bill Henneghan, a big 6-2, 205, from Detroit, is another leading quarterback as is Rog Fardin, 6-0, 190, who lives in Clifton, N. J. 
In addition to the Nebel twins at half­back, another brother combination in the backfield is Jack and Bob Scheutz, from Wheeling, W. Va. Jack is a quarter­back and Bob runs from the fullback slot. 
The key center position on this year's team was held down by Don Regalia, of San Anselmo, Cal., Mike Morrissey, who comes from Cincinnatti, and Dick Walsh, of Lyndhurst, N. J. Walsh was injured for part of the season. He is the largest of the three centers, standing 6-3 and weighing 225 pounds. The other two are an even six feet. Morrissey weighs about 200 while Regalia is about 15 pounds heavier. 
Bill Pentz 6-0, 190, of Charleroi, Pa., is one of the most promising linemen on the squad. He has excellent reactions to play developments and is especially strong on defense. He and fullback Pottios were high school teammates. 
Other strong contenders for guard positions on next year's varsity will be played high school ball together at Notre 
Dame High in Sherman Oaks, Cal. 
Koreck, Avho stands 6-2 and weighs 
210, is from Philadelphia while Nissi, 
another six-footer who tips the scales 
at 205, has Haverhill, Mass. as his home­
to^vn. Of the two California boys, Gierok 
is the smaller at 5-11 and 205 while 
Salerno stands 6-2 and weighs 220. 
A group of large and fast-moving tackles will bolster next yeai-'s varsity. Joe Scibelli, "who comes from Springfield, Mass., is the biggest and one of the most outstanding. Scibelli is six feet tall and weighs an even 250. 
Ted Romanowski, whose hometown is Albany, N. Y., and Dick Roth, of Toledo, are two more of the big linemen that will add depth to the varsity line next year. Both boys weigh in the neighborhood of 235. 
Other 230-plus tackle candidates are: Howard Roberts, fi-om Philadelphia, and Dick Gulan, who lives in Steubenville, O. Another promising tackle is Ron Pakut­ka, 6 2, 210, who hails from Duryea, Pa. Romanowski, Roberts, and Gulan all had physical ailments during part of the season which hindered their training considerably. 
Rich Boyle, 6-1, 210, of Chicago, and Dan Deigert, a rangy 6-3, 195, of Flint, Mich., are two outstanding ends that have shown great promise in the Cai-tier Field drills. Other wingmen showing the coaches good potential of things to come are: Jack Bonko, Tom Monahan, and Don Rigali. 
Bonko, 6-2, 205, is from Lorain, 0., while Monahan, who is 6-2, 185, claims Areola, 111., as his hometown. Rigali, who is a strong 5-10, 195, played his high school football at Fenwick. He has two brothers. Bill and Bob, both of whom have played for the Fighting Irish. 
During the fall practices, no first or second teams were formed, the players being shuttled back and forth in order to give each one a chance to learn and to play and enable the coaches to observe every player. Consequently it is hard to judge one player over another. More of this will be done .in the spring drills by Coach Brennan and the varsity coaching-staff. 
One thing is cez-tain. This year's freshman team, with its size and speed and its abundance of capable ball players, will be able to give that much-talked­aboxxt "depth" to next year's edition of the Fighting Irish. Perhaps even more than this, one or two of the freshmen will be able to seriously contend with the veterans for a starting role next season and contribute to the comeback of Notre Dame, as it strives to return to its usual position at the pinnacle of national collegiate football success. 
December 13, 1957 
The Huddle 
Congratulates the 1957 Notre Dame football squad 
• , • STOP at the HUDDLE , • • for that little snack between classes 
Football Review 

WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE MAKIELSKI ART SHOP 
Fine Quality Diamonds Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items 
ARTISTS' MATERIALS 

Jewelry and Watch Repairing 
and 
PICTURE FRAMING 
117 No. MAIN SOUTH BEND 

126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202 
DR. N. nZDALE 
OPTOMETRIST 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 to 24-Hour Service 
309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477 

FOR  MEN  I N  UNBREAKABLE  
Formulated for a man's hair and scalp.  PLASTIC!  
Conditions while it cleans. 1.25  SHULTON  
New York • Toronto  

AVAILABLE AT THE 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
ON THE CAMPUS 
December 13, 1957 
muiMs GEOEl'S 
Sirplns Store 

UBRiRV and 
"The store with the 
tivo dummies in front"

BOOK SHOP 
New Catholic Books, Missals, and PARKAS — HEAVY SHOES Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 
AND BOOTS FOR WINTER 

110 East LaSalie Ave., So. Bend 
512 S. MICH. ST. AT 7-6277

A Non-Profit Organization 
2 FINE HARRIS HOTELS 
H^v^iN NEW YORK TIMES SQUARE 
43ih ST. WtST OF »ROADWAV 1000 reomi wirh radio $ 4 and MUZMC f'om ^ 
KNICKERBOCKER 
45th ST. EAST OF BROADWAY 400 fine rooms with radio 
^^iin^i from 
TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED 
JU-2-4200 
Other Harris Hotels 
CINCINNATI, Metropo/e Broadway Kemper Lane 
'"'i;(iK"^;ROPOlE. Onci„„a«. Ohio ^^^'T^**' ^'''Tf 1 AlBERT HARRIS, President DETROIT, Fort Wayne Hotml ARTHUR H. FRIEDMAN, Managing Diracfar COLUMBUS, Sroad-lincofn 
YOUNG MEN—WOMEN 
STUDENTS—TEEN AGERS 
Fabulous 45 RPM record offer. All the latest hit record­ings including POPULAR, ROCK-N-ROLL, COUNTRY & WESTERN, RYTHM & BLUES, etc., can be yours now during our new membership drive ai a fraction of their regular retail price. During this membership drive the HOLLYWOOD RECORD CLUB to acquaint you with our records will send you FOUR (4) currently popular hit recordings for the amazingly low price of only $1.00 plus 15^ to cover the cost of postage and handling, if after receiving and playing your recordings you are not completely satisfied simply return to us and your $1.00 will be refunded. Each month you will be sent a list to choose from. You are under no obligation in receiving this list. To receive your first four (4) records send $1.00 plus 15< today and your recordings will be forwarded to you immediately. 
Mail to: RECORDS 
6625 DELMAR BLVD., DEPT. 313 
UNIVERSITY CITY 5, MO. 
Managers and Cheerleaders 
Notre Dame's student managers and cheerleaders contributed a great deal to the success of the Irish. 
The student manager organization is directed by three seniors, Marty Allen, head football manager from Grand Rapids, Mich., Tom Gozdecki from High­land, Ind., and John McFadden from Chicago, 111. 
These three direct the myriad of op­erations that surround both the home and away football games. At the home games they must provide to^vels and other equipment for the other team be­sides taking care of Coach Brennan's squad. During the game itself, they have to man telephones, handle footballs, capes, and uniforms, and be ready for any anomalies that might crop up dur­ing the game. 
For the away games they handle the transportation of all the game equip­ment, besides their normal sideline and dressing room duties. 
Besides their Saturday chores, they have to be out on the practice field every day and longer than the players. After chasing footballs, guarding the fence, and helping the coaches in innumerable ways on the field, they have the re­sponsibility of keeping the dressing room in good shape. 
The cheerleaders are under the direc­tion of two senior co-captains, Peter Roberson from Wilmette, 111., and Hugh McGuire from Flushing, N. Y. 
The rest of the group is made up of two juniors and two sophomores. Doug Gonzales, from Baton Rouge, La., is the only one of these four in his second year of cheerleading. The other three are all on the squad for the first time. These include Chet Broussard from Houston, Texas, the other junior, and sophomores Tom Keegan from Rochester, 
N. Y., and Jim Ryan from Warren, Ohio. 
Two Legs, loo. 
Sports wear for 
ALL MEN 
100% fine lambs wool Crew Neck Sweaters 
$7.95 
100% Wool Flannel Slax Ivy Model or Regular 
Plain Colors—$9.95 
Ivy Stripes—$10.75 
118 So. Mich. St. 

Behind the Irish 
(Continued from page 37) 
During the half time intenmission at every home game the spectators are treated to a display of marching talent and musical ability presented by the University of Notre Dame Marching Band. This band, some 110 sti'ong, gives a show which matches the team it­self in precision and timing. This is no accident; for the Band puts in almost as much practice time as the team, pre­paring the half-time spectacles. Each Monday, Thursday and Friday after­noon, Tuesday and Wednesday evening, and Saturday morning befoi-e a game the band practices to perfect the half-time show of that week. 
The spectacles presented this year were: an illustration of how campus music has changed in the past 70 years, dedicated to Colonel Fehr, the only living member of Notre Dame's first football team of 1887 (Indiana), "My Fair Lady" (Army), "Salute to Pennsyl­vania" (Pittsburgh), "Saga of The Sea" (Navy), "Old Time Minstrel Show" (Iowa), "Winter Wonderland" (Southern Cal). 
In addition to this the band, under the direction of Robert O'Brien, per­forms at all basketball games, vari­ous other sporting events and civic parades. Mr. O'Brien estimates that last year the band made 45 to 50 public ap­pearances representing the University. 
The Irish Guard, which precedes the Marching Band, was founded in 1951. It consists of eight members dressed in kilts and bearskin hats, a costume similar to that of the National Band of Ireland. 
Irish Coaches 
(Continued from page 29) 
Stram, who is 35, was born in Chi­cago and raised in Gary, Indiana. After a brilliant football career at Lew Wal­lace High School, topped by his All-State recognition, Stram attended Pur­due in 1941. His collegiate playing days were interrupted by an Army hitch from 1943 to 1946. Upon his discharge, he returned to Purdue and displayed a great ability as a halfback, although hampered by injuries. He also starred on the Purdue baseball team before his graduation in 1948. 
From 1948 until 1956, Stram served as an assistant coach at Purdue. Last year he was head backfield coach at S.M.U. and in February he accepted his present job. 
Stram married the foi-mer Miss Phyllis Pesha, also a Purdue graduate, in 1953. The couple has two boys, Henry and Dale. 
o 
X UJ 
> >• i \
a o X 
o >• 
> u Si 
1 
boS 
o 
o o m m 
<^ o« « ^ 
Ci i-^ 00 K 
CO W « ^ 
•M-4A--lA-V»­
<
. .35 > 
' < iL <
aid* 
o o »o o 
K 00 o rs. 
>n o ^ K
•- <s 
< • —• OL X s: 
^ § z a 
iJ^m O ^ 
o S2 •-> O = «A u) 
^ ^ 25 
LU < O O 
O Z X 2 
m o o tn N, a» ^ «
• • • * <
K K ^ K
•- »-« z 
. o 
< t ^ ^
S 9 z i
Z r! u £
^ S > u
5 < u z ^ z z = < u u u 

December 13, 1957 
'He gets a lot to like-filter, flavor, flip-top box," The works. A filter that means business. An easy draw that's all flavor. And theflip-top box that ends crushed cigarettes.  POPULA R  FILTE R  PRIC E  
(MADE IN RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, FROM A PRIZED RECIPE)  
46  Football  Review  

Trouble-free  
weekender—  
this wash 'n' wear  
Arrow  
Off for the weekend? Here's  
a shirt that combines rare good  
looks with amazing handiness  
—^the .Arrow Gloi in wash 'n'  
wear Dacron" and cotton.  
Collar stays are stitched in,  
permanently and invisibly.  
They just won't get lost. Sec,  
too, our Drake button-down  
model. Your choice, in white  
or solid colors, just $7.95.  
All silk tie $2.50.  
Chtrtt, Pcnbody & Co., Inc.  
ARROW  
first in fashion  
SHIRTS • TIES  
*Dupant's polyester fiber  
They're here in favorite  
Arrow designs!  
Come and see our selection of trouble-free,  
wash 'n' wear shirts, the Arrow Glen  
and the Arrow Drake—offered with  
regular and Link Cuff'. Don't delay.  
Look in before the campus pace setters  
buy our entire supply.  

>' 
GILBERT'S 
. 
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend 
December 13, 1957 
Men in f lie Icnow 
know true from false 
College grads over forty suffer from a decline in their earning power. 
r~| TRUE Q FALSE 
False. In fact the older they get the more money they earn. Statistics show that the average man's earning power declines rapidly after he reaches 45. The college grad's income is still going sharply up at this point. 
College educated men tend to be bachelors to a greater degree than average American males. 
n TRUE Q PAUSE 
False. Recent studies show that Mr. College Grad is no longer avoiding 
/ 
the marriage license bureau the way he used to. In fact statistics now in­dicate that having a college degree actually lessens the probability of a man leading the bachelor life. 
Jockey brand is America's 
best known brand of men's 
underwear. 
Q TRUE Q FALSE 
True. Independent surveys prove that 
Jockey is not only the best known 
underwear in the U.S. but also in 98 
countries around the world. Just 
shows how universally men value 
comfort and fit. 
Men on the go 
9 0 fo r </OCArClfunderwear 
BRAND 

made only by 
Going to CHIC AGO? 
visit the 
Clark theatre College Student Price 
50c at all times 
Just present your student identification card at the Clark Theatre box office, 11 N. Clark 
THE NEW 
EDDIE'S DiniDgRoom&Lounge 
WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED TO BE MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO 
1345 N. IRONWOOD 
Just a few minutes from campus 
You Always Get a Square 
Deal  a:  Breen's  
•  
WATCHES  DIAMONDS  
RADIOS  SHAVERS  
•  

EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING 
BREEN'S 
Jeweler 
325 South Michigan Street Phone AT 7-3630 
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR 
Rasmussen Men's Shop 
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS. 

RESTAURANT 
127 N. Main Street 
Welcomes Notre Dante Students 
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS 
Prepared By Our French Chefs 
Call For Resei-vations CE 3-5606 
3-Miuiite Pizza Pies 
PIZZA BURGERS 
CARRY OUT ORDERS 
Eve's Drive In 
SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. 
OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER 
Wabicht Bros. 
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOOD— 
NOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE 
1415 LiNCOLNWAY WEST 
/*' ^r. 
713 East LaSalle CE 3-0951 
OUR SUPERBLY DELICIOUS PIZZA WAS CREATED FOR ENJOY THE FINEST IN DELICACIES 
Next Year's Schedule 
(Continued from page 32) 

tackle Ernie Westwood and guard Ed Michaels. 
The Irish return home the next week, November 15, for their last 1958 contest in Notre Dame Stadium. Their opponent will be North Carolina, returning to the schedule after a year's absence. Heading the Tar Heel veterans is quarterback Jack Cummings. Others back are half­back Emil DeCantis, tackle Don Kemper, centers Ron Koes and Fred Swearingen, and end Clyde Turlington. Missing will be end Buddy Payne. 
The Irish will travel to Iowa City on November 22 to meet the Hawkeyes of Iowa. Iowa has won the last two games against the Irish, and the series between the two schools now stands at eight wins and five losses in favor of Notre Dame, Avith three ties. 
Missing from the Hawkeye lineup will be end Jim Gibbons, pj'obably one of the best pass-catching ends in the country, and Ail-American tackle Alex Karras. 
However, returning will be three of the stai-ting backfield against Notre Dame in the 1957 game. They include quarter­back Randy Duncan, who scored a touch­down against the Irish on a 24-yard returned pass interception, halfback Bill Gravel, and fullback John Nocera, who also scored against the Irish in 1957, on a 36-yard run. Linemen to see action for the Iowa eleven in 1958 are center Mac Lev/is (all 289 pounds of him), end Don Norton, who tallied the third touchdown for Iowa in the 1957 game, tackle Dick Klein, and guard Gary Grouwinkel. 
The 1958 finale will find Notre Dame meeting Southern California at Los Angeles on November 29. The Trojans, always rough for the Irish, were hin­dered in 1957 by the ineligibility of seniors and consequently played with a young club. However, these juniors and sophomores will be a year older in 1958. 
Returning for USC in 1958 Avill be halfbacks Don Buford, Clark Holden, and Tony Ortega, fullback Ed Isherwood, tackle Mike Henry and guard Frank Fiorentino. 
FOR 

American Food 
 OLD-WORLD Enjoy a Private  THOSE WHO Party in the Seclusion of 
 ITALIAN 
Our Hideaway Room 

"Variefy is the spice of life." Enjoy GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS 
Steaks Chops Fried Chieken Sea Foods 
REASONABLY PRICED 
Mark's Cafe 
134 N. MAIN ST. 
FISH FRY FRIDAY 
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style 
Simeri's Cofe 
410 NORTH HILL STREET 
ROCCO'S 

South Bend's Original House of Pizza 
Sftll the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes Special Noon Lunches 11-1:30 
537 N. St. Louis Open—11 a.ni. — 12 Midnight 
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION 

Here you'll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food 601 NORTH NILES AVENUE 
Diamonds Jewelry Watches 
J. TRETHEWEY 
JOE, THE JEWELER 

104 N. Main St. JJM.S. BIdg. 
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE 
Ail Outside Rooms Completely Air-Conditioned Indiana's Newest and Finest 
92 Rooms • 92 Bafhs 
• TERRACE DINING ROOM • CIRCULATING ICE WATER 
:;

•
 PRIVATE FUNaiON ROOMS • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM 

•
 BEAUTIFUL PATIO GOLF PRIVILEGES • LARGE PARKING AREA 


JjeLicLous ):Jooo JjeLi^klfuL Jjrinks 
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions 
Prompt Attention Will Be Given Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends. 
Owned ond Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager 
Congratulations to Coach Terry Brennan his assistants and a mighty fine Fighting Irish Team 
J 
COMPLIMENTS 
National Milk Company 
Tastee Milk of Superior Quality 
921 So. Louise South Bend, Ind. Phone AT 7-1563 
at 
NOTRE DAME 
the 
Holy Cross Fathers publish 
Cover design by Charles Kerins 

THE CATHOLIC BOY 
the BEST all-round magazine any boy could wantl 
THE CATHOLIC BOY _ ^^ ^ j ^ O Pages Choclc-full ol 
Notre Dame, Indiana • 1 year —?3.00 Thice or more | j D 2 years— 5.00 lyr subscriptions , I ^W^J SPORTS, ADVEN­
S2.50 each | |

Please send the Catholic Boy D 3 years— 7.00 
I TURE. COMICS. STORIES, ° '"^ j HOBBIES and CATHOLIC ^^"^^"^^^^^ \ INSPIRATION. 
Citv Zone State • • ^^ ^^ ^^ § 
O Send Gilt Card .. read fro„ , ^^^ ^ $ J.OO « )'««''• 
j Published monthly except Your Address I dufing July and August 
A new idea in smoking... 
refreshes your taste 
inpaiiy 

SALEM is a new idea in smoking—JOH smoke refreshed. SALEM refreshes your tasle the way a hrighl, clear spring day re­
s^^M freshes you! You get Springlime freshness in every puff! Tiic freshest lasle in cigarettes flows througli SALEAF'S ])ine wiiile filler...rich lohacco lasle with a new surprise softness and menthol-fresh comfort. Smoke SALEM .. . you'll love 'em! 
Smoke Salem. .. smoke refreshed 








