



THE OFFICIAL 
F-oOTBALL REVIEW 
SEASON OF '27· 


""()niversity of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Edited by 
JOHN .F. DUNNE 

JAME~·F. HURLBERT RICHARD L. NOVAK 
Business Manager .Advertising Manager 
The Contributors 
JOHN P. SMITH, Varsity Captain. . WARREN W. BROWN, Sports Editor, Chicaeo Herald-Examiner. GRANTLAND RICE, Columnist, New-York Herald-Tribune. 


JOHN RICKORD, Notre Dame Correspondent, South Bend News-Times. QUINN A. RYAN, Radio Announcer, Chicago Tribune Station. LT. COMMANDER 0. 0. KESSING, Graduate Managei·, Naval Academy JAMES R. HARRISON, Columnist, New York Times. EDWARD W. SMITH, Sports Authority, Los Angeles Examiner. HARRY C. ELMORE, Official Photographer, South Bend News-Times. GEORGE TREVOR, Columnist, New York Evening Sun. 
W. W. EDGAR, Sports Writer, Detroit Free Press. JIMMY CORCORAN, Columnist, Chicago Evening American. RICHARD A. HARRINGTON, Art Editor, The Dome. JOHN W. STAHR, Sports Writer, South Bend Tribune. 

I 
\ 
i 
l 
l 

·A'l 
,rJ 


The Beloved Leader 
·THE :'IIEMonv of George Gipp is the sacred heirloom of the Notrc Dame man. About the memory of the immortal captain has grown a halo of tradition that is Notre Dame's most cherished possession. Enshrined in the hearts of the 
men of Notre Dame is the vital memory of their. leader. Today George Gipp lives for the Notre Dame man as truly as he did when his "flying cleats" made immortal history on Cartier Field. 
The 1927 Football Revie'W is dedicated to George Gipp, athlete, scholar and hero, in the hope that it may provide some slight expression of the lov~ wl.Iich Notre Dame men cherish for their star of stars. 

.~ 
[ 2] 

-------------------~-~--~-~-­
GEORG.E GIPP 

The little town in Michigan Is tucked beneath the snows; A norther fran~ Superior _Is calling as it blows. Fullnzany a hundred yards or nzore · Lie down the village street And s_eenz to wait the darting pass 0 f fanzous cleated feet. 
The n~ining shafts oj-Lauriu1n 
Are goal posts in the gloan~ing And the treetops sou1id a whistle To the copper nziners honzi1ig. 
A n~urnzu1Js in the wind ~aday-__· To all the native h.earersj~ · · 'And whirling gu;ts fran~ far Canuck Are twenty thousand· cheerers. 
The ·gmne is on! And through the snow · _The northers sweep. and dip, The wind is calling signals 
To:iis brother halfback, .Gipp. 

The Indiana prairi.e lands Are blanlwted with snow. The golden don~e of Notre Danze ·Re-gilds the sundown glow. On the nzedieval cmnpus, In the early j1·osty flurry, Two thousand nzen ar.e harking To the w'ind' s uneasy scurry. 
(\ 
A rat-a-tat of flying feet Is..born fr01n Cartier, _ 
· Tho' ihe gridiron now is barren And the dusk is in the air. Is it A1·1ny, Purple, Geo1·gia?­
Is it sc01:es they now renzenzber? Or class-ic·... catch.es leaps and runs, This evening i1i Dece;nbeJ.if 

.  .  ····:  
I  •  The i1h;:e is on! A?td through. the snow  
r • •·• .,; -•--:.•''f•  T!w'~1U?rthers swJ·ep and dip,·rhe wlizd· is calling signals  
To its brother halfback, Gipp.  
QuiNN A.  RYAN.  

[ 3] 

. _.) 
~ 
::..._..... ,......;:.--·.;: .<.../J 
I 





KNuTE K. RocKNE, Director of Athletic.s 

I 

[4J 


r' 
Never-a Wizard Like Rockne! 
By EDWARD ,v. SMITH, Los Angeles E.vaminer 
I
«:..."' :~ '. F KNUTE K. RodiniE never does another thing in his life, he'll go down in history as tile one greatest ·wizard ·of the world. This mighty Scandinavian doesn't have to show 'em any more. He's done enough. And they believe now there is abso­lutely no limit to his necromancy. 
Rockne wouldn't -be so ·bad with the home folks if he didn't so everlastingly rub it in in his gentle, genial way by smiling .off all adulation. and p~aise. Darn it, they say, you cuss him till you ~an't find words o~er .the tliings 'llC .does to an op­posing team. , Then when you meet .him he is su~h a gosh...:dinged nice fellow, so utterly without guile, ·so positively ingcnius, so meek and ·lam'b-likc-well, after you leave him, you have to give: him t~1rcc cheers. These are the cheers he won't listen to when you arc in his presence.. 
One coach of a secondary college expressed ·himself about "Rock" the other day in the course of a chance conversation. I-Iis smile was immense. 
Rockne's name thus came uiJ-it generally does, and with a bang.· 
"Quite a chap, isn't he?" was my quite tame and inconsequential query. 
This peppery coach looked at me in some disgust at the classification I so in­consider.ately put upon .the mighty man. Then he exploded his opinion. 
"Say, there's a fellow that could drag a g~u.glc out of. an empty flask!" 
Rockne is a sportsman. He's built that way, ll~S trained himself and his system that way, desires his boys to be that way and N_otrc Dame, despite the subtle slurs offered behind sneakingly uplifted cupr)ed han.ds; nlways will be glorified' by this man,' his men nnd his methods. . 



I
I 

The. Last Word. from Our Leader 
. SEASON of superlative football has ·come to an end! And the Notre Dame Var­. sity is intrinsically satisfied that it ha~ done its best; that the student body
A 
. is appreciative of this fact. At no time would I he able to ·say, with as much sin­cerity and reserve, and at no ti~e so· appropriate as this, the gratification that has been mine in being able to lead; onto the turf of historic Cartier Field and all enemy fields, a squad of inen who have fought so manly and unflinchingly for the honor 
and glory of Notre Dame. 
"Their deeds her inspiration; 
Their names a solemn tradition of Notre Dame." 
-CAPTAIN JOHN p. SMITH. 
[ 6] 


./ 






,t.I 


-r 
r 
~ 

/ 
Football Cf{e·view of' 1927 
Personnel of Coaches a11d Squad 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
Coach 
HARTLEY ANDERSON THOMAS .i\IILLS 
Assistant ·coaches 
JOl-IN P. S.i\IITH  .JOI-IN .J. \VALLACE  
Captain  .JOHN V. Mcl\lANl\lON  
Freshman Coaches  
AUGUST l\I. GRAl\IS  
. Ifead nianager  
.E: BOLAN BURKE  
.Associate.· J.lianager  



Tl1e Players 
Fmm CoLLINS, Full GrwnaE LEPi•IG, 'Guard . .TOE l\IonmssEY, Quarter FnED l\fn,Lim, 'l'aclde .Timny RANS~\VAGE, Tackle JOHN FnEDEHICI{, Center 
· \VILLIAl\1 HunLEY, Ifalf J ~SEPH NASH, Center .TACK 1\fcGRATH, Taclde Ti-IOMAS l\Iun.PHY, End FnANK l\JcCAR'rHY, Center .1OliN VEZIE, End TIMOTHY l\loYNIHAN, Center EL:\mn.· \VYNNE, Full CnAHLES RILEY,· Quart.er .1 oE Loc1m, Gum·d GEoHGE l\fURRIN, Guard D. SnAY, Full CmLE \VALSH, End .JAl\IES Bn.AY,lfalf .1 OHN VoEmscn, End RAYMOND Sl\IITH, End .T OHN CHEYIGNY, Ifalf Tn<niAS NooN, 'l'aclde JoHN LAw, Giwrd. \VILLIA~I GnEER, Guard .Tog BENDA, End \VILLIAl\1 DEw, Full Att'rHUit Dt~NCHFIELD, Full \VtLI,IAl\1 CASSIDY, Guard .Lums HunLBEH'r, End JOHN l\IcSon.LEY, Ifalf .1 oux CoLERicK, End J OIIN CnmsTIANSI<~N, Guard .JOliN N IEl\IIEC, Ifalf BEnTRAl\1 1\JE·rzaEn, 'Guard Tuol\IAS BYRNI<~, End Tnol\IAS KAsAIS, Guard .J. l\L Bn.ADY, Quarter Tno:MAS QuALTEns, Full ALBEHT GEnnEnT, Quarter EnwAim \VnrrE, End JOSEPH PRELLI, Ifalf JOHN Pni<~NDERGAs·r, Center CnAHLES :McKINNEY, Quarter BERNAHD HuaaEn, Center Ern\'IN STEIN, 'l'acl.le \V. Jl. BYRNI~, Full RAY DAHMAN, Ifalf J. F. l\lEHAI\:, 'l'acldc .TOliN PoLISKEY, TacHe T. S. McLAUGIILIN, Taclde EDMOND CoLLINS, End RommT BRANNON, Ifalf . l\IooN MULLINs, Ifalf JOHN I-L\ImiNGTON, End 
T. F. KEXNALEY, Quarter S:Al\1 RicHARDs, Tacl.:le. CnmsTm FLANAGAN, Ifalf Cmus \VILIIEMMY, Ifalf 
R. L. DoNAIIUI<~, 'l'aclde Lours NOHMAN, Center \Vn,LIAl\1 .ToNEs, Guard l\L\IUON I-IEPFEHNAN, End .TOliN DoAnN, 'l'acHe HowAnn SMrrn, Ifalf HrmBimT ScHui,Tz, 'l'acl.~!e JOliN lh~DGA'l'E, IIalf .TAcK CANNON, Guard .TOliN \VINBEHHY, End EucmNI·: l\IAIIONI·:Y, 'l'ac!.-lc .J<>HN Er,m:n, IIalf 
[ 9 J 


I 
l 
i 
i I i I 
Football 'l{_eview of 1927 
l! ll 
l 
I 
I 
1 
j 

j • ~ 
.Jr-·:_;, 
l ·~-~>: 
1 
'·i 
........ .:.;·L 

.. ;·r ··! .': 

I 
. I 
I! I 
I 


KNUTE K~ ROCKNE 
Head Coach 
HARTLEY ANDERSON 
THOMAS MILLs· 
Line Coach 
Assistant Coach 
[ 10] 
Football CJ{eview of 192? 

JOHN J. \IVALLACE 
F1:eshnian Coach 
The legal half of the firm of "rallace and ~Ic~Ianmon holds his law secondary only to. that of football as taught by Coach Rockne. Consequently we find his return to Notre Dame this fall to coach the Frosh and further his legal research. The perfection of the_ opposing team's plays as dintlged to the fre~hmen by Cqach \Vallace aided Rockne trem~ndously during the past season. His ability as a scout, candidly, has been a true aid in preparing the freshmen for scrimmage against the varsity each week. 

JOHN V. McMANMON 
F1:eslunan. Coach 
The same that has ·been said of Coach \Vallace holds true with Coach ~Ic~Ianmon with the exception of the legal ,part. The latter, the second part of the combination of wit and football, drilled the freshmen with so much drive and vigor that it cnnnot be denied tltat tlic varsity will be greatly strengthened by the addition of several of this ·season's yearlings in 1928. The line play of the fr~shmen, for which Coach Mc~Ianmon was responsible, was exceptional this year. 


I .• 
Auaus·r ~L GRAMS 
IIead 1lfanager 
RoBim·r E. KmnY 
Head Cheer Leader 

~ 11] 


\. 
I 
l 
::· 

--. 

Football CJ{eviejv of 1927 
CAPT. ·JCHN "CLIPPER" SMITH. 
Hartford, Connecticut 

After making a. tour of the football camps, Lawrence Perry classified our watch chnrm guard as one of the two greatest guards in the country. Bv his consistently fine performances this season, h~ will undoubtedly .re­c~ive All-American recognition. Johnny hns the enviable record of playmg three vears as a reO'ular O'Uard on the Notre Dame varsity. The Clipper was in a dlass by hims~lf fo; power, nggressiveness, interference and ability to diaO'nose plays. He \\rill lonn· be remembered as a grent guard and a fine leader. The Clipper had a field day at tl1e Army; and in th~ :Minnesota game recovered a fumbled punt to give Notre Dame the opportunity to score. 

ELlVIER WYNNE 
Nort01~; Kansas 
Elmer tis.ed to be known as Chet 'Vynne's brother, but after this se~son Chet will be known as Elmer 'Vynne's ·brother. Elmer was a consistent ground gainer, :1_. great defensive man· and a fine interferer~ A bad leg forced him to leave the Navy game; and this injury handicapped him the rest .of the season. His defensive play in the Navy game received a. great deal of favorable comment from the press. He also starred in the games with Detroit 
I

and Drake. Judging from his early season form had he not ·been on the I injured list he woul_d have made a strong bid for national recognition. 
I 
I 
.. j 
JOl-IN "BULL" .POLISKEY 
-I 

Bellaire; Ohio . r 
The .Bull is all..that the name implies. His ferocious charges through the 
,I 

line to nail ·opposing backs for losses made him one of the outstanding line­men of the season. Although small in stature, J olm is powerful, rugged 
I 
I 

and extremely fast in getting down the field to cut down the secondary or to cover punts. Poli~kcy held down·the tackle position for three years, and played perfect football in every game. Poliskey starred against l\Iinnesota; Army mul Georgia Tech. By his season's ·play, the Bull p~ovcd conclusively that an Irish name was not necessary to be a "Fighting Irishman." .._.
_ 
JOHN FREDERICK 
Saginaw, Michigan 
.John had quite an assignment this fall when he was selected to fill the gap left vacant when Bud Boeringer, All-American of 192G, graduated. But in his own quiet way' he caused followers of the "Fighting Irish" to forget there c\·er was a center n~med Boeringcr. John played a flawless game all season. Playi:Jilg a roving center, he knocked down passes, broke up end· runs and made himself u general nuisance as· far as the opl)onents were concerned. 
His greatest individual feat of. the season was blocking a punt in the Navy. game which '"alsh converted into a touchdown. 



[ 12 ] 
·I 
Football 'R_eview of 1927 . 
"CHRIS" FLANAGAIN. 
Port Arthur,_ Texas 
The Texas Phantom was a marked man this season:, and Notre Dame's op­ponents concentrated. on stopping him and in the majority of instances failed. His snakcy hips fooled many ambitious tacklers, and in every game he romped for long gains. Christy ran wild. against Coe, Detroit, Navy 'and Indiana. His speed, fearlessness, elusiveness, change of· pace and nonchalant style make him one of the· outstanding ball toters in the country. The Texan's gallops ranged from 15 to 70 yards; his most scintillating performance being a seventy yard run in the Coe game. 
CHARLES· RILEY 
lndiauapolis, Indiana 

In Chnrlcy Riley we have :1 typical Notrc Dame quarterback. A ten­second man, a fine passer :md a great pass receiver, colorful and with un uncanny accuracy for finding t~lC weak points · of his opponents. By out­smarting his opponents Charley -pulled the Irish out of many holes during the season, and obtained the ·best possible results out of his team. He was consistently good in every game. His greatest accomplishment was scoring a touchdown in the Georgia Tech game after receiving :t pass and eluding most "of the Georgia Tech eleven. His sneak plays were a fcnturc of the Indiana, Army and Detroit games. . · 

"CHILE" vVALSH· 
Hollywood, California 
Chile upheld the high standard of the \Valsh clan at right end for Notre Dame this year. His pluy all season was practically errorless and was a great asset to the tea~. He is fast, strong, well built, a superb handler of fhe forward pass and a star end down the field. Opponents found him hard to circle and he boxed opposing ·tackles with surprising regularity.· His great­est individual feat was scoring a touchdown in the Navy game on a blocked punt: Chile received great praise from the press for his play ugainst Minne­sota, Army and Southern California. 
RAYlVIOND "BUCKY" DAHlVIAN 
Youllgsiowil, Ohio 

Ducky's ·work at halfback this .year has been nothing short of sensa­tional. Time and again, he brought the stands to their feet wih his sensational runs around end. and off tackle. Being an All-\Vcstcrn basketball guard ac·· counts "for his phcnomcn'ul ability to knock down enemy passes. Bucky is a fine interferer,··a reliable punter and a speedy and slippery runner. His wide flank sweeps were a feature of the game with the Navy. Dahman starred 

I
in the games with Indi:ma, Detroit, ·Navy and Southern California. Bucky's football activities at Notrc Dame arc over, and we regret the passing of this versatile athlete. · · 
I 
. II 
I 
[ 13]. 
l 
j 





Football 'l{eview of 1927 
JOHN "IKE" VOEDISCH 
South Bend, Indiana 

For three years the pride of South. Bend has held down 'the left wing position on the Irish eleven; and has yet to make an error. A sure and savage tackler, a great fon\;ard pass receiver and one of the fastest men on the squad, he meets. with· the high standards set by former great Notre Dame ends. He has played in real All-American style although handicapped towards the last of the season by a leg injury received in the Minnesota game. His brilliant. and consistent end play has gained· for him the national repu­tation of being a star end: _ · 

·.1 
. "FREI)" MILLER 
Milwaul~ee, H1isconsin 
.:,
In his sophon1orc year, l\filler replaced Boland at left tackle when Boland was injured in the Minnesota game. From the first, he has been a 

I
star and has proved ·to be an invalua:ble unit· in the Irish forw!ard wall. 

Powerful, fast and shifty, he was alway.s at just the right spot to repulse the ~! 
charges of the enemy. His play against Detroit, Army, Navy and Southern i 
California brought many compliments from the press. Freddie has one year 
!
of competition left; and if he· performs in his senior 'year as he has in the 
i
past ·noth~ng less than an All-American berth will do him justice. 
I 
I 
I

JOHN "BUTCH" NIEMIEC Bellaire, Ohio .--! 
I


Butch is the most versatile back on the squad. A long distance punter, an accurate forward passer; and with great speed and elusiveness he could always be relied upon to make the· necessary gains against all sorts of op­position. His unusual ability has won for him the ~i~tinction ."of being one of the greatest triple threat men that football has ever known. ·His long punts gained a great deal of ground for the Irish in exchanging kicks. His ·romp around end for a touchdown in the l\Iinnesota· game was his finest con­tribution this season. · 
GEORGE LEPPIG . Cleveland, Ohio 
For' po,~cr, aggressiveness a~d ability to diagnose plays George was in a class by hz~self. George played a steady game all .season. Opposing line­men found lu~ hard to tak? out and harder yet to keep. him from. crashing through tl~c lme and .t~trowmg th? ·ball carrier for a loss. George has an­other year of competitiOn, 'and w1ll be heard from next season. vVith the experience gained this season George should do great things in 192s. Leppig's guu!J play was a feature of the Minnesota, Ind~ana and Drake games . 
. [ 14·] 




·~ 
Football 'l{.eview of 1927 
FRED COLLINS 
Portland, Oregon 


Due to injuries, Fred· did not get started until mid-season; hut when he did get in there, he ripped opposing lines -to pieces. Fred is a ten second man of the Layden type with a keen eye for openings and a great open field runner. In the Georgia Tech and Indiana games, Fred bore the brunt of the running attack, performing in true All.:.:American style. Colli_ns will be b~ck next year and we expect the dashing, nonchalant, flashy Oregonian to carve a deep niche for himself in Football's Hall of Fame. 
"JOE" BENDA 
Duluth, Minnesota 

Injurics kept J oc off the Notrc Dame eleven for two years, but this season he came into his own. A fast, rangy and smart end, Joe was always on top of the play; .down the field to nail the safety man in his trucks, or drifting out to snare a forward pass in his own inimitable way. Benda caused many opposing halfbacks to be thrown .for losses, and was particularly adept in sifting through interference. His phenomenal playing in the Georgia Tech, Navy and Detroit games were the particularly daring performances of this splendid wing. 
JOHN "JACK" CHEVIGNY 
H anunond, Indiana 
Chev's long end runs and off tackle smashes won the plaudits of e\'ery one who had the opportunity to see this colorful halfback in action. Pos­sessed of snakey hips, lightning speed and ability to tackle savagely, the Chev was fore\•er worrying the opponents. 'Vith no regard for life or limb, he made a shoestring tackle to stop J oesting in the :Minnesota game and pre­vented a sure touchdown. His defensive play was a feature of every game; and his long gallops in the Coe, Detroit and Georgia Tech games will serve 
'as fuel for the hot stove league this winter. · 
GEORGE '.'CHUNK" MURRIN 
Parl<ersburg, HTest Virginia 

Chunk started his football activities at Notre Dame us a center, being understudy to Boeringer for two seasons. This year he was shifted to guard; and judging from his season's play had he been more experienced in this position, he would have seen· more action. Taking into consideration his in­experience, :Murrin performed in brilliant style. 'Ve admire Chunk for his courage, his versatility, his tenacity and his aggressiveness. Chunk displayed considerable pro\vess in the games with Coe, Indiana and Georgia Tech. 




.[ 15 ] 


Football CJ?..eview of 1927 
I ; J I CHARLES .IVlcKIN.NEY 
Philadelplzia, Pennsylvania 
/~--,. 
r 
:~l~,,,.\ 

In runninO' :McKinney on the second outfit, Coach Rockne was well awnrc of the fact th~t Charlie-some say Chal-·could handle the shock troops in ,·~~~~
( jsuch a way as to puzzle the opposition :mel wcm: them do'\'!1 for the first tcnm; and even 1rct the jump on them in the scoring; witness the .Indiana game at Bloomingt~n. Charles has common sense knowledge in barking signals; h:~s finesse in hurlino· lon(J' accurate forward passes; and comes the closest tins 
I:) . I:)' II

}~car of any of the quarterbacks in resembling Harry Stuhlclrchcr, A -
.I American qunrterhaek of '2·1. 1Vatch for Charlie next year. 
I 
JAlVIES "JIM" .HURLBERT 
New. Yol·k City 
Jim received the reputation of a VICIOus tackler when ns a frcshm:m he howled over Don .Miller. Rock immediately requested him to retire from action. Ever since, he has upheld that reputation, being in there every minul:' rocking and socking the opponents. He was ha.ndicappcd in his sophomore and junior years ·by injuries, bu~ this year he was in the thick of the fray nt all times. Tearing in time and agnin to break up pl:tys was Jim's hobby. Possessed of great intestinal fortitude, the rougher the going became the better ·.Jim liked it. He played well against Detroit, Navy :mel Drake. 
"TIM" MOYNIHAN 
Chicago, Illinois 

Tim alternated with Frederick ~t: the pivot position this season; and with such a good old Gaelic cognomen it is no wonder that Tim filled nil the requirements of a Fighting Irishman. He was a smooth and accurate passer, a stone wall on defense; is possessed of a fighting heart, :md _was particularly brilliant in sizing up a break in the line, and getting to it in time to upset the runner with a dull thud. Tim will be in the lineup again next year, and with the experience he hns gained this year he should he one of the best centers in '28. Tim played remarkable football in the games with Coc, Drake, Indiana 
and Georgia Tech. 

JOHN COLERICK 
Newark, New Jersey 
'l'l~e first time John donned :~ football suit :md appeared on Cartier Field, he. 1:cnunded. the old guard of Anderson and Kiley because of his outstanding aluhty to drift down the field, snare· a pass on the dead run, :md advuncc. the hall far into enemy territory.. His peculiar knack of lc:iping into the air to catch a pass while surrounded. by opposing backs was sensational at all times. After scci~g J oh.n in acti~n~ against· Indiana, Minnesota and the Army, critics were unammous m the opmwn that before he leaves Notre Dmnc he will sur­
pass the records of the greatest ends. 
[lG] 



Football 'l{evie.v of 1927 -:--_,,:. 


WILLIAM DEW 
Fond dtt Lac, Wisconsin 
Playing on the third team this season, Billy has shown enough ability to warrant our saying that had he been at another college his line plunging would have merited him a first string berth. Billy gave 'Vynne and Collins real opposition for fullback. honors. He is a smashing line plunger, a keen and steady defensive man, and a vigorous interferer. Coe, Detroit, Navy, and Indiana found Billy a hard man to stop. This· was Dew's first year of varsity play, and before the "Big Football Parade" is over we predict that Bill~~ will make a place for himself among· Notre Dame's immortals. 
"JOE" PRELL! 
Oakland, Califontia 

An early season injury _kept Joe out of the first four games. But when ~1e. did see action, he made things hum. Being a track man of unusual ability, It IS only natural that opponents found Joe a hard man to lay hands on. His elusiveness, defensive work, speed, and knolfledge of the game made him a valuable asset to the team. Joe carried the ball for. substantial gains every time it was given to him. He was at his best, however, in the Army and Drake games. During his three years on the varsity, Joe has seen plenty of action and. could always be relied upon for steady gains. 



JERRY RANSAVAGE 
Kingston, P(!nnsylvania 
Jerry is without a doubt the str.ong man of Knute Rockne's 1927 troupe7 Jerry. held down left tackle on the shock troops, and opponents found him to be the proverbial stone wall when they directed a play in his direction. His unusual strength and agility enabled him to break through and upset a_mbitious ground gainers. 'Vith the experience Jerry has gained this year he should be one of. Rock's greatest linemen next season. Jerry played mar­velous football in the Navy, Drake and Indiana games.. 
JOHN LA\V 
New Yorl~ City 

New York City :mel the elite East may be proud of :\Iayor Jimmy "'alker and all that; but Notre Dame is just as proud of one of the scrappiest guards that ever played for the Fighting Irish. L:n\' played the part of a shock trooper during the past season, not bec:mse he couldn't make the grade on the first team, but because the part of a shock trooper is as important as that of any other on the Irish squad. His ability to pull out on certain plays, and to hold his man iJ?-on other plays has stamped him a guard of ability and finesse. His best performances were against Detroit, Indiana, and Drake. 

[ 17] 

Football CJ{eview of 1927 · 
"JACK". ELDER 
Louisville, Kentucky 

The Colonel from the blue grass state ran the ends· · ragged this season. ·Jack is the fastest man on th.e 
Va.rsity and once past the line of scrimmage is impossible 
to catch. After his brilliant 95-yard run in the Drake 
game he was named the ·New ·york Century-here he 
comes, there he goes. Jack will be heard from next 
season, and before he hangs up his cleats will be given 
due consideration by selectors of the All-American. 
"JIM" BRAY 
Kansas City, Missouri 

If you are looking for a classy halfback who can 
punt, run and pass with the best of them we recommend 
the Kansas City speed merchant. Jim saw action against 
Coc, Georgia. Tech and Indiana.; and it took the com­
bined efforts of the opponent's line to check this !;lip­
pcry hnlfba.ck. 
''JIM" BRADY 
Pocatello, Idaho 

Jim saw action for the first time this year. on the 
,·arsity and proved himself to be a dapper ,and depend­
able quarterback. Great things are ~xpected of the 
Idaho flash next year. Jim is smart, fast and shifty. 
He showed to good advantage in tht: gmnes with Army, 
Navy and Drake. 
"EDDIE" COLLINS 
Chicago, Illinois 

For two years Eddie was· kept off the Irish squad by injuries. This year his lack of experience under fire kept him somewhat irt the background. Playi~g the winged perf~ction with Inarked perfection when he did get in there, Eddie caused many opposing backs to be thro\\'n for losses and many contemplated end runs to be smaslted in the making. 
"DICK" DONAHUE 
.Auburn, New York 

\Vith so many outstanding tackles on the squad it was almost impossible for even such a remarkable tackle as Dick to break into .the lineup. Dick has two ·years of competition left and with the experience he has had this year wi~lf-undoubtedly be a big asset to Coach Rockne next fall. · · 
JOHNDOARN .Onzaha, Nebraska J olm was one of the outstmiding linemen of the sea­son. His offensive· work opened wide gaps in the line of opposition, and enabled the Irish backs to reap long gains tl1rough his side of the line. J olm bolstered up the line in great style and was a tackle of real ability. 
"JOE" LOCKE 
Chicago, Illinois 

For a sophomore guard Joe showed considerable ability, and if he continues to improve Rock has no cause to worry about replacing Clipper Smith next season. .Toe's fighting heart carried him into the thick of the fray and after a few tries at his. position the op­posing quarterback left .Toe alone the rest of the day. 
"JOE" MORRISSEY 
Danville, Illinois 
Joe was Rock'~ ace in the hole and was sent in at crucial per.iods to stem the onslaught ·of the opposition. Possessing a cool head and eyes that were quick to de­tect the weakest points in the opponent's .line, Joe made good every time he was called upon. He }lerformed brilliantly in the games with Coe, Detroit and Georgia. Tech. 
"JACK" McGRATH 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Jack was shifted from fullback to tackle this year because of his boxing ability. Inexperienced though he was in this position, he performed in first class style and ought to be :i regular bearcat. next season. His line play was a· feature of the Indiana, Drake and Navy games. 
FRANK McCARTHY 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
The wealth of center iuaterial was the reason for Mac's failure to play more .than he did. \Vhen he did see action he proved himself to ·be an accurate passer and a great defensive man. \Ve admire ~Iac for his courage, persistence and loyalty. ~Iac showed some. real center play in the games with Coe, Indiana and Army. 
THOMAS BYRNE 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Tom was one of the most colorful of the Notre Dame ends this season, but due to the strenuous season he saw but little action. The keen comp.etition was the only thing that kept 'Tom from entering the ranks of the stars. Tom knows his 'position well and won the Hering medal for ends in '26. 
. WILLIAM "RED" HURLE.Y 
Springfield, Massachusetts 
Just when the flashy red head was ready to give the first stringers a fight for their jobs, he was stricken with appendicitis and forced to remain inactive all season. Red will long be r~mcmbered as a fast, elusive, high stepping halfback with great courage and ag­
.· gres~iven~ss. · 
"JOE" CANNON 
Colunzbus, Ohio 
Joe saw plenty of action this fall and in every game acquitted himself nobly. Joe developed rapidly during the past season and should be an invaluable unit in the forward wall next season . .T ~e's spectacular play in the Coe, Navy a~d Detroit games convinces us that the human projectile will break into great prominence be­fore he closes his career on the gridiron. 
"TOM" MURPHY 
Bridgeport; Conn. 
The wealth of end material kept Tom fi·om ·breaking into the lineup regularly. Tom is a tall, fast, powerful end who plays heads up football every minute. The 1928 lineup sho:uld find the good old Irish name of Tom :1\Iurphy at one !>f the wing positions for Tom has the stuff; all he needs· is the opportunity to display it. 


[ 18] 
1 

' • !,; • =--,-1 • -• ' , • • ~ " •'-_ • ~ ~ ,
~ ~ 


~ 
·~r:+---==--=---....~ ­
n
II 








The Go.mes· 



Football 'l{eview of 1927 · 
Notre Dame 28 
Coe 
The annual track meet, which serves to inaugurate the football season at Cartier Field, was cancelled this year, because Coe College produced eleven fighting veterans, who gave the Irish an interesting afternoon on the gridiron. · 
The gloom of a gray October sky was re~ected in the mood of the Notre Dame crowd at the end of the first half, which found the score tied at 7-7 and the Kohawks battling desperately and successfully to hold the Rockmen. 
The thousands of local fans who had come expecting to see a wild and woolly game were spellbound. The · South Bend Board of Strategy could offer no solution for this unprecedented state of affairs. · 
But it was an inspired Irish team which took the field at the start of the second half,. and on the second play after the kick-off Flanagan swept around his left end, weaved, dodged and squirmed his .way through the entire Coe team and dashed 56 yards down the field to cross tl1e goal line far ahead of his nearest pursuer. 
After this very fine example the Irish paraded down the field for two more scores and as the game ended the reserves were on the verge of scoring again. 
7 
Coe ~eing the. first game of the season the charac­teristic smoothness of Rock's teams was missing but the Irish were as colorful and as deceptive as of old. The Irish were slow in getting started but towards the end of the game were hitting on all six cylinders. 
As far as defeating Coe was concerned Notre Dame made a pretty thorough job of it, from a statistical standpoint. The· Irish made 18 first downs to their op­ponents' one, and gained 327 yards from scrimmage against 27 for the Kohawks. 
Coe 'brought a well drilled, hard fighting temi1 to Cartier.. Field, one -\vhich disregarded those who pre­dicted overwhelm'ing defeat at the hands of the Gaels. Throughout the entire first half they played a great defensive game but weakened in the second half under the ceaseless pounding they took from the Irish and had to give way before Rockne's fast stepping backs. 
Beloit under the guidance of Tommy :.Mills played the same kind. of a game in 1924 against the National Champions, holding them to a 21 to 0 score. 
It was a great opening and most of the customers went away pleased. Students were offering ten to one that Rock would ·hear from the Downtown Coaches' As­sociation by morning but strange as it seems there were no takers. 

[ 20] 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Irish OpeniSeason With Victory Over Coe 
By JOHN RICIWRD, 
South Bend N e'tvs-Times. 
Defeat for them a foregone conclusion in all minds QUt their own, a doughty band of red-jerseyed football warriors from Coe College swept onto Cartier field yesterday afternoon and breathed defiance at the horde of Notre Dame players who were planning on trodding them ruthlessly under foot for the edification of the 10,000 fans who had turned out to witness the Irish make their annual early season killing. 

The killing was made according to schedule, but not until the victors had been forced to exert themselves far more than is usual in their first attempt. The Kohawks faced unflinchingly the slashing attack of one of the speediest combinations which Rockne has ever developed, and when the final count was made at the-·end of the battle, the margin of victory was but 21 points, the score standing at 28-7. 
Great Early Game 
The game was one of the best in the history· of season-opener-s at Cartier field. · The usual walkaway victory had been predicted for the Rockmen, but the Coe players had not been consulted when the prediction was made. T·hey came out of Iowa prepared to give Rockne's team a battle and to win if. possible. And for a time they did throw a scare into Notre Dame fans. 
Alert and aggressive, they took advantage of every break of the game ,and when the first half ended, they stood on· even terms with their famous opponents with the score at 7-7. 
The second half was a different story, however. Tired 
·and battered, they were unable to withstand the drives of the Notre Dame team, which was being constantly re­plenished with fresh performers. Notre Dame scored three touchdowns, one in the third quarter and two in the fourth, before the final gun ended the contest with 
I the ball in Notre Dame's possession on Coe's one­~.._ yard line. · 
r 
Scouts desiring to determine what Rockne has to offer 
I this year were disappointed. Notre Dame used only straight football, with an occasional pass. Niemiec, Flan­agan and Riley all handled the ball well on passes. Coe
I 
attempted a few passes, only one of which was successful. 
,.~ 
· Coe Unable to Gain 
An offensive which could not puncture the Irish for­
~· 
ward line or bend its wings was largely responsible for the Kohawk's defeat. They were able to make only one first down against the three front walls which Rockne placed before them; and their lone touchdown came when .the Irish mixed signals while near their own goal .line and a pass .from Fredericks at center found no one in the backfield to receive it. The ball bounded back over the Notre Dame goal and Paschke, Coe guard, fell on it for six points. E. Barrows kicked goal and the advantage gained by Dahman's touchdown shortly before was eradicated. · 
On the defense, the Coe battlers played good ball, and it required hard plugging on the part of the Irish to push the oval across the Coe goal for their four markers. Rock started his second squad, which was held on more than even terms by Kohawks, and not until the first stringers entered the game in the second quarter did Notre Dame show much offensive punch. 
Then came an 80-yard march down the field which was culminated by Ray Dahm·an's dashing around left end behind perfect interference for a touchdown. Dahman also added the extra point. 
Wynne Hits Line 
The march was featured chiefly by line plunging on the part of Elmer Wyime, dashes off the tackle by Dahman and Flanagan and a. pass which resulted in a 25-yard gain. 
A few minutes later Coe tied the score. Coe received the kick-off but, after failing to gain, kicked to Notre Dame's four-yard line. After Wynne had made seven 
·yards on two plunges~ he was replaced by Shay because of an injury received in the second drive. The next play went amiss, the lob pass from center falling to the ground and bouncing over the goal line, where ·Paschke dropped on it. 
The half ended with the teams deadlocked at 7-7, but soon after the beginning of the third quarter, Christy Flanagan made one of his famous runs. On the third play of the period, he took the ball around right end, slipped inside of two Coe men who sought to run him out of bounds, and with the aid of his mates, galloped 56 yards to a touchdown. Dahman added the extra point. 
Pass Gives Score 
A long pass from Niemiec: to Voedisch was instru­mental in scoring the third Notre Dame touchdown. After carrying the ball from their own 40-yard line to Coe's 31yard marker on runs and plunges by ·wynne, 
Niemiec and· Chevigny, Niemiec tossed a 20-yard pass to Voedisch, who carried the ball to the Coe one-foot line before being downed. Riley then carried the ball over on a quarterback sneak through center. Niemiec's kick sailed true. · 
Substitutions were made and with the same team in, which started the game, the Irish pushed over another six-pointer. A march from Coe's 36-yard line began and Moynihan partially blocked a Coe punt, the ball being recovered by Notre Dame. Niemiec, Chevigny and Dew carried -the ball·· for steady gains, Dew finally taking it over on a plunge through the line. Niemiec kicked the 
'goal, and the score stood at 28-7. 
Rockne then began shooting third. stringers into the game,. and they took up· .the _work where the second stringers had finished. ·with Mullens and Elder, half­backs, carrying the ball for long gains on sweeping runs around the Coe \\rings, the third stringers had the ball on the Coe one-yard line when the game ended. 
[ 21] 
'"'·-==---­
Football c.R._eview of 1927 
! 
Rockne's Gaels.·Outclass Dorais' Titans
. . . . 
By ,V, W. EDGAR, Detroit Free Press. 
Those same stalwart athletes who gained considerable prestige for the University of Detroit last week against the Army reached for a higher rung on the gridiron ladder yesterday afternoon and missed it by three touch­downs as the Titans bowed in defeat to Notre Dame, 20 to 0. 
.Though defeat was their portion, the· Titans were not disgraced, and surprised their most ardent admirers by the stubborn defense that several times averted touch­downs for the highly touted Irish eleven. . 
It was the biggest task the Titans ever were called upon to face, and a record attendance witnessed what probably was the most colorful spectacle ever staged on the chalk-lined turf of Dinan field. 

Tribute to Coaches 
Every seat in the stadium was occupied and specta­tors jammed into every point of vantage while the two teams clashed for the first time. The gathering was a fitting tribute to the coaching ability of both Dorais and Rockne, first exponents of the forward pass, and former teammates at the South ·Bend school. 
And the 28,000 spectators who viewed the contest witnessed a game that never lagged in action and abounded in thrills until the final whistle. In the end it was the smartest team that won and the victory was justly deserved. 
From the outset it was apparent that the Titans could. not match the speed of their rivals who employed de­ceptive aerial attack to gain when within striking dis­tance of the goal line. Two times during the course of coinbat, it was a pass to Flanagan that netted touch­downs and the same attack paved the way for the third. 
Flanagan's Play Factor 
I, 
It was. Flanagan who prove,d the hub of the Notre Dame and the trust placed in him was fulfilled with several of the most spectacular plays of the game. It was Flanagan throwing passes, receiving them, and, to relieve the monotony a~ times, darting off tackle for long gains. His was the best brand of all around ability ever r! seen at Dinan field and Notre Dame owes its victory to
I; his ability of picking the logical moments for his moves. Like a prancing deer on a golden autumn afternoon, he was au· over the field, and during his stay in the game always threatened to break away for the same kind of a run that first brought him attention last year againstthe Army. 
After· the reserve teams of each school failed to score. in the opening period Christy Flanagan made his debut with a run ·of 28 yards on the first play of the second period. .It was this sprint that paved the way for the first score and started the Titans on the road to de­feat. Dahman followed up this sprint with another of 10 yards and Flanagan advanced to the 3-yard line. Here it appeared as though the breaks were against him. He hurled a short pass to Riley over the line, but the move was discounted by a penalty for holding. 
Passes Everywhere 
This didn't disturb the Irish, who j·ust adde.d that much more force and deceptiveness to their atta·ck. The pass· play was alternated, and, catching the Titans un­aware, Flanagan took a pass· to the 2-yard line and the same play netted a ·touchdown. The passing of this pair 
·was uncanny and provided the spectators with a sample of what was to follow. 
Not content with the damage already done, this pair, augmented by the line plunging of Wynne, were on the threshold of the· Titan goal line shortly after the third period opened. It was a pass to Flanagan, then to Riley, followed by an off tackle thrust, that set the·stage for the second score. · · · 
In this march the Irish unleashed a lateral pass that never missed its mark and the Titans were dizzy watching · the ball's progress. 
The play was well covered and the Detroit backs 
seldom found the right man. So it was when Flanagan 
took a backward toss from Riley and was brought to 
earth only when he had moved to within -seven yards of 
the goal. ·wynne made the task a little lighter with a 
plunge that netted an additional five yards. But· it was 
Flanagan, he of the swaying hips, that cut inside tackle 
.for the second score and removed all doubt as to the ulti­
mate winner. 
While the Irish showed ability at hurling passes, they 
were equally proficient in checking the overhead game 
of the Titans. And this defense directly resulted the final 
score. Pass after pass enabled the South Bend team to 
put the ball over the line, but as in the first period the 
score was nullified by a holding penalty. Given the 1 ball 
on their own 20-yard line, the Titans att(lmpted the over­
head style, but disaster was the only reward, as Niemiec 
reached high into the air and speared Brazil's pass to 
start the final march goalward. 
Titan Line Wilts 
Taking the ball on the Titan 28-yard line Dew hit 
center for five yards and the drive was on, this time to 
be successful. Niemiec took advantage of an· opening 
inside left tackle and reeled off 10-yards more and the 
Titan line wilted under the attack. With the forward 
wall weakening Notre Dame again resorted to passing 
and a long effort, Niemiec to Hulburt lacked two yards 
of a score. This was gained on the next play when Dew 
wriggled through the middle of the line for the final 
score. In defeat, though, the Titans never stopped trying. They ~vere in there fighting, fighting against odds that could not.be overcome. Once it appeared as though they were destmed to cross the Notre Dame line, but the effort went. for naught because of holding, a practice that was frequent throughout the game. . . . 
Misfortu~e· Stalks Titans 
. This J?lisfortune occurred on the opening play of the 
third periOd. "Cy" Janowsky took Dahman's kickoff on 
his own 18-yard line and calling on all the speed he 
possessed, the Titan fullback darted down the field. One 
by one he passed the chalk lines and his interference 
took man after man out of his path until finally he was 
brought down on the Notre Dame 20-yard line. 
The Titan followers were in a frenzy as he· added 
yard after yard to his 62-yard run, the longest of the 
game. But just when their soirits \vere highest gloom 
cast its shadow over the field for the ball ,\ras called back 
and the once chance the Titans had to score was cast aside by the officials. It was this misfortune, more than any other, that caused the Detroit spirit to wane. It was a time when the Titans were not destined to score and though the br.eak, nu~li~ed the run, it was the same fate met by the Irish precedmg ~ach of their first two touchdowns. · 
· Make Only Four ·Ffrst' Downs 
While the game had a decidedly Notre Dame com­plex, the Titans earned considerable praise for the stand they made in holding their· more experienced rivals to th~ee touchdowns on 17 first downs. On a basis of ground gamed Notre Dame was far in the van The Titans were credited with four first downs arid ori~ of these was the 
result of a penalty. 
It. sin:{ply was. a .case of a master forward passing combmatwn functwmng at all times and Rockne has the laugh ori Dorais in their· first meeting. 

( 22] 
•..__......,.._... -.. t. 
Football CJ{eview of· 1927 
Notre Dame 20 

Detroit 
In 19.13 Knutc Rockne, an end, and Gus Dorais, quarterback on the Notre Dame eleven, a team repre­senting. a small college some place in Indiana, intro­duced the forward pass i~to the East. Using the com­bi;nation of Dorais to Rockne, this light but fast team defeated the formidable "rest Point aggregation, 35 to 12. 
The years pass :md fourteen years later we find the old teammates rival gridiron mentors facing e-ach other across the chalk lined turf of Dinan Field. For sixty minutes their charges ·battle up and down the field. Both teams frequently usc the forward pass, the same weapon which had brought so much fame and glory to their coaches. But it wns Knute Rockne's "Fighting Iris·h" who were the most successful with the aerial attack. and Gus Dorais' "Titans" went down to a 20-0 defeat. 
N~trc. Dame completed eight out of 13 passes for a total of 7•1 yards while Detroit snagged six out of the 13 they attempted for a total yardage of •J.l yards. Notre Dame made fourteen first downs while Detroit received credit for three. 
0 
Christy Flanagan made his debut in Detroit by scor­ing two touchdowns and treating the spectators to a few of his famous gallops. Elmer 'Vynne gained consistently through the line and was a tower of strength on the defense. Charley Reilly was master of the situation at all times and used rare judgment in calling ·his plays. 
TllC Irish played a hard, determined game, brilliant in spots and· indicative of greater power as the season advances. Detroit still fresh from their great stand against the Army were a constant Inenacing threat. 
The Notre Dame line presented an impregnable de­! fense. Pitted against a husky group of forwards that l played the Army line to a standstill the }lrevious Sat­il urday, the light Irish line led by Captain J olmriy ·Smith 
li
performed in ·brilliant style. The nearest Detroit came to scoring was in the first quarter when .:\Ia.loney at­I tempted a place kick from the 33-yard line. 
The majority of the student body enjoyed the hospi­I tality of :Mr. Ford's home· town and supplemented by the band made the Irish feel at home in the automo­I bile city. 
I 


[ 23] 
-~ . I 
L 
·--~ 
l 
l 
Football 'l(eview of 1927 

Notre Dame 19 
Navy 
They used to call him General Rockne, but it's Ad­
.miral Rockne from now on. Admiral Rockne brought his small fleet of Cruisers to Baltimore, the home· port of the Navy, and despite the presence of many of Uncle Sa~n's greatest strategists succeeded in out-maneuvering_ the Naval Fleet. 
The contest was more even than the score indicates. The midshipmen were leading the Fighting Irish by a score of 6 to 0 at the end of the first half, and at no time was Notre Dame absolutely sure of victory. 
Rock started the second team, and the future ad­
. mirals promptly pushed over a touchdown after a splendid march froril midfield. The regulars were then pressed into action, ·but the Navy held them in check for the rest of the half. 
In the third quarter Frederick broke through the line, blocked the kick, and cut down Lloyd as the latter started to recover the ball which 'vas bounding back down the field. The ever alert Chile· \V alsh scooped up the ball, and raced across the goal line, tying the score. 
Chris .Flanagan then started to function, and ran the Navy ends ragged .bringing the ball to the Navy's goal line. Charley Riley made a few mysterious passes with the· ball; finally taking it himself and scooting around right end for Notre Dame's second score. 
Chris r~tired from the game and Niemiec replaced him. The midshipmen were surprised to find that Niemiec was the equal of Flanagan and ·had the same 

6 
peculiar knack of shaking off. ambitious tacklers. and sprinting. for long gains. Late .in the fourth quarter he passed thirty yards to Chile \Valsh, and .on the next pby smashed through tackle for the last Irish touch­down of the day. · 
The battle was a magnifi~ent clash, courageously 
fought between two evenly matched elevens. Both tea~s 
were possessed of powerful lines and strong ·backfields. /Both were well fortified with practically the same. type of offense, the aerial game and wide flank sweeps. Riley's cunning and the well drilled Not:re Dame team 
·.·.~ 
were too much for the Navy~ and they were at.:sea most of the afternoon. Navy backs. -found the Notre Dame line and impenetrable; Poliskey breaking and with through :Miller, on defense Smith, Fredericks the Navy · ··~ \ 
·: ri backs had a .busy afternoon. Notre Dame was far superior to the Navy in every ·department of the game and illustrat~d the old maxim that "a good team makes its own breaks/' There was precisiOn in Notre Dame's attack; Eleven ·men moved as one, and the ·blocki~g and tackling was extremely accurate. . . The game was hard fought but clea~ from the kickoff to the last play. This was Notre Dame's first game with the Naval Academy, arid Irish supporters arc con­fident that the same cordial relations that have existed between the Army and Notre Dame will exist with the other branch of the service. 
.• 

.. ·.~ 
·~ 
. ~· 
·[ 24] 

..-------·--------
Footbali CJ{eview of 1927 

·Large Crowd Watches Notre Dame ·Sink Navy 
B;lj GRANTLAND RICE. 
I,. Of the New Yorl~ 
The South .Bend simoon is roaring down the road again. Headed by two forked streaks of lightning-"on again Flanagan" and ''off again Niemiec"-Notre Dame beat the Navy, 19 to 6, yesterday afternoon as 53,000 spectators in the big Baltimore stadium looked on be­neath blue Maryland skies·. 
The South Bend simoon started away like a zephyr -with-the second team at work and the Navy scored in 
. about five minutes. But it was the same old blistering '\Vestern tornado when Knute Rockne rushed in Flanagan, Niemiec, Rjley, Walsh, Miller, Voedisch and the remain­der of his brilliant cast, who lost no time in changing the zephyr to a howling gale. 
Navy Scores on Notre Dame Fumble 
Even as it was the Navy led, 6 to 0, at the end of the fil'st half, but early in the third quarter the fast, keen Western attack, driving its way forward with the brilliant Flanagan at his best, had the Navy on the run. 
The Navy scored first on Notre Dame's fumble of a kick at midfield, a Notre Dame penalty on a forward pass, · a smashing run by Ransford and a double pass from Ransford to Spring. Notre Dame tied it up early in the third period. Lloyd dropped back to kick from his own 45-yard line. In a · wild surge Fredericks and Poliskey swarmed through to block the kick as Walsh recovered the bounding ball and raced over for the tying touchdown. 
A few minutes later "on again" Flanagan hit the warpath and two wide sweeping end runs in succession ·carried the ball from his own territory-fifty-one yards­
to within nine yards of the Navy's goal. 
· Riley scored the touchdown_ on a delayed pass. \Vhen Flanagan left the field Niemiec picked up where the star back left off and· ran the Navy off its feet to score again in the closing period of the day. After Notre Dame ·got warmed up the less-experienced Navy team fought 
·back savagely and grimly but nevertheless vainly against the play of the faster, quicker western backs !Vho picked their openings like streaks of light, who smothered the Navy ends and who in turn put on enough defensive pressure to break up the Navy attack the l!l'eater par·t of the afternoon. 
Navy's. Chances Soon .Fade It was a marvelous.day· for football from the view­point of 53,000. spectators who sat and cheered as the midshipmen marched across. the fields to their blue-tinted sector and began their cheering chorus before_ the game was on. There· was only a breath of _wind stirring, drift­ing lazily across the field and not a fleck of white against · the blue Indian summer sky above. ' . ~ ..... For the first few minutes against Rockne's wavering second string the Navy looked to be on its way, but when the old guard reported for action and the simoon from South Bend began to tune up, with Flanagan sweeping ·along the green_ turf, the Navy never had a chance. It was _up against a team entii·ely too smooth and fast and · powerful ii:t every feature of attack and defense. It was up against a line that outcharged and outblocked its own forwards and against a backfield that startec;l with far greater speea· and carried far better interference eight times out of ten. 
With Smoothness of Wind It was a wonderful sight to see one of Rocknes vet­.·. · eran teams in action. Every cog in its place and the entire e'nsemble drives along with. the smoothness of the western wind. So the Navy was up against more than . many, in the big stands could see, an alert, smart set of veterans who knew their jobs down to the final turn ·on every play, backs and forwards alike. It was. Notre Dame's heavy and continued pressure which broke up the Navy defense after the opening driye. 
I
Iferald-Tribune. 
Even such a back as Lloyd, 200 pounds in weight and 10 seconds in speed, never had a chance to get started. I IT-he western ·defense smothered him as the·surf smothers 
li 
a raft. T.hey were all over him at his first or second 
!
stride and he never had a chance to get away and use his speed. . 
To Notre Dame's 10-Yard Line The Navy started quickly against Rockne's second l string. The first break came when Ransford punted to ( l midfield and the ball bounded off Niemiec's shoulder to 
be covered by a Navy end. J 
A Navy pass drew open interference from a Notre Dame end and this penalty advanced the ball another 12 or 15 yards. Then Ransford crashed through the left side of the \Vestern flank for 20 yards to the 10-yard line, and after three line plays, a double pass from Rans­ford to Spring sent the ball over. Hannefian failed to kick goal, but the Navy was leading, 6 to 0, and the 
racket was terrific. 
Flanagan Held in Reserve Then something happened. Ten young men arrayed 
I
in the same colored sweaters came out to take their places. And "on again" Flanagan was still held in re­II serve. Things began to change quickly, but the Navy I' defense was fighting too hard and Notre Dame couldn't I 
l
score. At the end of the second period the Navy was leading, 6 to 0, but Notre Dame had piled up nine first downs against three, so you could see how the drift was working; you could see that the Navy defense, even with all its substitutions, couldn't hold back this Western 
. gale much longer. 
It was early in the third quarter that the Navy drew a tough break. Lloyd punted well down. the field, deep into Notre Dame territory, but Notre Dame was off side. So the Navy took its five yards, ran one running play and then Lloyd fell back to punt again. It was a harrow­ing incident. If that first kick had been take~, the Navy would have had its rivals deep in their own domain. 
Time and again the Navy backs tried out the Western line, but they rm;ely made a yard. There were cheers from the Navy section when Flanagan left the field, but the Navy section had forgotten about a young man named Niemiec. Niemiec was just another Flanagan, almost. In the last quarter Niemiec soon opened an attack by racing 32 yards up the field, then he kicked out of bounds 
on the Navy's 17-yard !ine. · · 
Unable to Check Niemiec Thatwasn't any.too soft for the Navy. A few minutes later the Navy overlooked something or pulled a boner by using a running play on the fourth down around midfield · so Notre . Dame-took the· ball. Niemiec then made 11 yards. A forward pass from Niemiec to Walsh got 10 more. On the next play Niemiec raced 11 yards th1;~mgh the Navy team, dodging,· ducking, spinning, twisting and turning as he fought his way across the line. It seemed as if a dozen powerful hands had gripped him and held him. But he continued on his way, a zig..; zag streak that could not be stopped until he had crossed 
the line. · It was a hard, driving battle all the way and the Navy undoubtedly would have made it closer still except for the blocked kick which upset the poise of the younger team and sent it to coasting down hill against the swift flanking movements of Flanagan and Niemiec. 
Praises Navy's Efforts Nothing but great football on a big day is going to stop Notre Dame this year, for Rockne has one of his old­fashioned smart teams and a world of reserve po,ver to throw irt when the right time comes. The less experienced Navy teain 'did well enough in carrying the tide of. battle as far as it did before the dykes gave way. 
[ 25.] 

Football CJ{eview of 1927 
Rockmen Mix Plays to Subdue Boosiers 
B.1J JOHN ,v. STAHR­
South Bend Tribune 

indiana University showed Notre Dame and the biggest crowd in her history, 21,000, a real football t~am here this afternoon, but it is going to take somethmg more than just a real football team to stop Notre Dame from going where she's going this happy autumn." 
·Mixing her. plays with a judicious variety that had the Crimson defensive baffled-most of the time, the Rockne cavalry came back after giving away the opening touchdown to the enemy and all but rode the stalwart Page men off the turf in the last thre~ periods of ~he game to achieve another 19 to 6 victory. It was the thu·d successive game in which the Irish got away to a one­touchdown handicap early in the game. 
There was rio ·sending of the regulars to the rescue this afternoon, though, after Reinhardt of Indiana had dashed off tackle 48 yards to a touchdown in the first five minutes, and the Irish first stringers remained on the bench while Coach Knute Rockne let his starting line­up fight back, and the starting lin-eup did fight back. 
Niemiec Puts Irish Ahead 
Soon after the second kickoff the starting Notre Dame team inaugurated an offensive from its own 47­yard line that put the ball in p9sition for a touchdown just as the first quarter ended, and on the first play of the second quarter Johnnie Niemiec went off tackle for the score, and then kicked the extra _point that sent Indiana into the rear where she remained the rest of the matinee although she fought back all the way. 
A neat pass from Morrissey to Chevigny, and a 13­yard dash off tackle by the latter, were large helps in the first Notre Dame march to a touchdown._ 
The Notre Dame first team entered the game a short 
,time after the score had been adjusted so the Irish sym­pathizers of whom there were many in the audience­could breathe more easily, but the strong defensive play of the scrapping Hoosiers stood off any more scoring for the first half. 
Flanagan Proves Terror 
At the start of the second half Indiana caused the Irish stampe-de to pause for just a moment before Flana­gan, who was not. inserted until _late i~ the first.half, began getting loose and penetratmg Crimson territory. The Texas Tenor was a terror once he started, however and scored the second touchdown on a 20-yard d~sh after 'W-hitey Collins had raced 33 yards down the Side line on the most thrilling excursion of the day. 
Notre Dame was kind of slow achieving her third touchdown · largely because a wild pass from center broke up ~ne drive just as it was about to terminate in a touchdown and they ha·d to start over again from midfield whence Indiana had booted the ball. But the third o~e arrived, nevertheless, \vith. Flanagan going over ~after doing _his share in· bringing the balL. back t_o_ scoring territory. · 
It was a great day for the battle between the north­ern and southern rivals of Hoosierdom, and with an enthusiastic crowd looking on. The weather was a bit warm for the best of football, but it was better than 
. having it muddy. 
Irish Tragedy Averted . ·' 
The first scene in the first act·gave promise that per­chance something in the nature of an Irish tragedy was going to be pulled off, when Reinhardt, carrying the ball for his third time in succession on the third play of the game, slipped off right tackle, cut back shortly and out­ran the Notre Dame secondary, 48 yards to an inaugural touchdown; 
The Indiana stands were crazy with elation and it was not until their team was thoroughly defeated that the cream and crimson partisans failed to have hopes for their team, and even when the last hope had flown, they were sti_ll mighty proud of their outfit. And they should be. 
The Indiana team deserved all the credit anybody can summon for it, not only for its fighting spirit, but it looked more like a football team than any Indiana team has looked for a long time. But it still has some things to learn, some things Rockne might call details, before it will shape up as the equal of Notre Dame on the gridiron. 
Riley Mixes His Plays 
The Rockmen's offensive was the same old baffling, varied, now here and now there style that it always is when touchdowns need to be made, and they were mixed with such a skillful touch by Charley Riley that there certainly was no profit in Indiana's trying to guess what in the nature of an offensive effort was going to be thrown at her next. It was in keeping the Cream and Crimson boys off balance all the time that the Irish offen­sive got its effectiveness. 
Again it was Christy Flanagan, Rockne's ace in the hole, that really provided the spark that-sent the Rockne runabouts on their·way to victory land. The interference formed in front of Christy like heralds clearing the way for a queen, and the Texan was fleet enough and sure footed enough to stay just the right distance behind them, and the way he lit out for himself as soon as the interference had spent its force was wonderflu to behold. He gained 116 yar.ds from scrimmage, and that with his longest single excursion being for only 20 yards. 
Johnny Niemiec and Whitey Collins were the other principal ground-gainers for the Irish, the blond full­back particularly being on his game again after not hav­ing been in shape previously all season. His extraordi-­nary speed carried him rapidly away from the secondary defensive players once he crashed through the line loose, and his run of 33 yards down the side lines was clicked off in 10 second time. 
Page Avoids Fancy Plays 
The Notre Dame line stacked up Indiana's plays throughout the game, arid batted down most of the at­tempts of the Hoosiers to gain through the air. Contrary to expectations, Pat Page's men failed to resort to any freakish offensive. maneuvers, though one kickoff had some of the earmarks of an effort at an onsidc kick. 
The figure hounds reported Notre Dame as acquiring 18 first downs to five for Indiana, which \Vould show a substantial superiority in ground gaining. In fact, there was quite a substantial difference in all 'round caliber of the teams, and except for that one sweet dash by Rein­hardt, the Hoosiers were· scarcely in the same class with the boys from South Bend. Notre Dame gained 293 yards from scrimmage against 118 for Indiana. Notrc Dame completed three passes out of nine for a total gain of 42 yards, and Indiana made good on three passes out of four for a total yardage of 46, and each team· inter­cepted one. 

[ 26] 

Football 'l{eview of 192i 
Notre Dame 19 


Indiana 
Before one of the largest gatherings of football fol-. lowers, the Indiana University eleven, which .had tied the powerful :Minnesota team from Minneapolis ·by the score of 14 to 14 a week previous, met defeat at the hands of a Fighting Irish contingent by the score of 19 to 6. 
Indiana commenced the· game with a punch that it had displayed against :Minnesota when Reinhardt, the Indiana ace, raced 45. yards for the only score for his 
... 
. ~ team after about five minutes of play. The score was made against the shock troops, but Coach Rockne did/ not insert the regulars until the shock troops scored. 
With the com~encerilent of the second quarter, Notre Dame showed power in a combined straight football and forward pass attack. Niemiec displayed much· of the power in the line bucking while :Morrissey and Chevigny showed to advantage in the passing and receiving. Niemiec went over the white line for the first Notre· Dame tally. 
After the score was adjusted to a level keel, Coach Rockne rushed in the so-called regular outfit, with the 
·exception of Flanagan who was not inserted into the game until the termination of the second period. Again the regulars immediately began to peel off long runs, 
I 
~l 

6 
and especially was this true of Collins and Flanagan. The second touchdown of the game for Notre Dame came after long runs by Collins and Flanagan; to wit there was a run for 30 yards by \Vhitey Collins. Flana­gan made the score by a jaunt of 20 yards. ' 
The offense of the Irish could not be stopped. Time and again, the sharp cutting backs of the Irish cut here and there for long and short gains; and likewise mixed up their playing by throwing forward passes when In­diana least expected them. The Texas Tenor likewise scored tht third touchdown after one unsuccessful drive down the field. 
For the 'eenth time, Notre. Dame, in lambasting In­diana, defeated a Conference team, which Notre Dame greatly rejoices in trouncing. Indiana had high hopes of stopping Notre Dame; they had stopped :Minnesota;· however, the same was not to be in this case. 
The Irish outplayed Indiana in straight football; they outsmarted the state school boys in other aspects of the game; and had the better of their opponents in kicking. It was a deserved victory for the Irish from every point of view..And the fact that it was a conference team made the cheese better cheese and more binding cheese. 


[ 27]. 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 26 Georgia Tech 7 
Six times the Golden Tornado of Georgia Tech came sweeping frrom the South with a long galaxy· of de­feated southern teams left in its wake; and six times the same Golden Tornado was repulsed in its attempts. In the chapter of football relations that have existed between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech records show tl1at Notre Dame has had the advantage. Records like­wise show that Notre Dame was the smarter team, the better ground gaining team, and had the -better record in the number of poin~s scored. To wit: I 3<1< to I 7. 
'The Golden Tornado came to Cartier Field with a squad of determined men: Captain Edgar. Crowley,. Papa Hood, and Shorty Thomason; and a record of all victories and no defeats. It returned, however, to its native Georgia with the former, but minus the latter for the Irish took the Southerners into camp by the score of 26 to 7. 
Due credit should be given the Georgia Tech men in the way they had tried to repulse the Irish. Only a really inspired and more capable team would have been 
able to turn t~1e played that day.  tide against  the  Irish· the way  they.  
Once again, Coach Rockne let the shock troops take the first bumps of the game. They did. ·And were scored · on again when Rockne had taken his entire first team out of the fray late in the game after his first team had run all over Georgia Tech.  
The Ole Kid Collins had the p·ower ·behind the punch that. placed the first and second touchdowns for Notre Dame over the goal line. He scored both touchdowns on a reverse. of pace after he had passed the primary defense of Georgia Tech's.  :/{ ( .. \ {  
The third touchdown for Notre Dame, a bit of strat­egy in signal calling, resulted after the Irish had worked the ball down into Georgia Tech territory. Riley worked a sneak play and caught a forward pass from Flana­gan. He raced ten yards for the touchdown.  
Elder made the touchdown for Notre Dame with the  
second team in the fray, after Randolph Tech had scored for the Sotitherners.  of  Georgia  


[ 28] 
l • \ •' ...-"/ I , ~ ~ • ~ • "• • • • ~ 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Golden Tornado Only a Breeze to Notre Dame B;1J JoHN W. STAHR South Bend Tribune 
The Georgia School of Technology's football team may be a Golden Tornado when it's blowing around down in Dixie, but when it comes up around northern Indiana, particularly Cartier field, of the domain of Notre Dame, it finds itself harnessed down to "just another southern breeze." 
The gold-jerseyed southern gentlemen from Atlanta found the force of habit-plus an increasingly capable Notre Dame team-too strong for them at Cartier field again yesterday afternoon and when they picked them­selves off the turf for the last time they knew they had tried again, as hard as ever, but had failed again, just as surely as ever, if not more so. The score was 26 to 7. 
There was a swiftness and a deception to the Notre 
· Dame attack ·ye"sterday that had not made its appearance before-in such deadly terms-all season, and several of the drives of the first string bunch down the field were marked by beautifully deceptive execution that even the staunchest Irish followers had not glimpsed before this season. One was led to believe that, when the Irish do get into some of the really tough pockets they'll run irito in the next few weeks, they'll be equipped :with plenty of fancy means for getting out of them. 
· Collins Gets Ambitious About 18,000 persons wended their way into Cartier field yesterday afternoon in the hope that Georgia Tech, backed by the best reputation that she has been backed .by since she became a fixture on the Notre Dame sched­ule, was at" last going to give. the Rockmen a real battle, and the 18,000 remained to marvel at the deadliness of the Rockne offensive thrusts, and to take notice of the capabilities of Mr. ,Fred (Whitey) Collins, who played his second varsity fullback role in two Saturdays and played it so well that his name hereafter may be printed -into the programs as one of the leading ladies. With Christy Flanagan, the Texan who has won not a few football games for Notre Dame-at least he has been quite a help-being almost bottled up by a Dixie defense that paid him very particular attention when he was conveying the pigskin, it was up to some­body else to do the breaking loose in behalf of the Notre Dame touchdown reputation, and Freddie· Collins nomi­nated himself· without fear or favor, scampering around left end 19 yards to the inaugural Irish six-pointer within a very few minutes after Rockne had sent his regulars into the fray at the start of period No. 2. 
Just Show Strong Offensive . Collins' touchdown ·followed one of those things uni­versally designated as a "march do\vn the field," which began simultaneously with the injecture of the Notre Dam~ first stringers at the outs~t of the second quarter. With the ball on the Irish 39-yard line, Collins plunged one ym·d to gain a first down, then the procession com­menced. Collins ripped off 12 yards around left end. A lateral pass play lost four yards, then Riley zipped a pass to . Dahman for. 23 yards· and the ball was on the Tech 29­y~rd line. Dahman sliced off tackle for 10 yards, and Collins went around left end again on a neat criss-cross play for the· touchdown. It was· high-powered offensive maneuvering, and it wasn't the only display of that na­ture in the day's entertainment, either. An intercepted pass by "Stumpy" Thomason, who ·did a number of things like that on defense but was completely stopped offensively, broke up another Notre Dame excursion to the Land of. Six Points later in the second period~ and some fine punting by Mizell aided in keeping the Men of Rock away from the Georgia. goal during the first half, and it ended 6 to 0. Voedisch Drops on· Ball But when an opportunity came their way early in the third quarter the Irish got their touchdo'vn in a very 
great hurry. Ike Voedisch dropped on the ball when a Tech center pass fell short on the Tech 25-yard line, and four brief plays later Collins squirmed across for his second score. 
A beautiful bit ·of open field sprinting, combined I with a neat bit of strategic daring, gave the Irish their Ithird touchdown a few minutes later, Charley Riley being the author of both the sprint and the stratagem. A couple of incomplete passes and a gainless line play had made it fourth down and 12 to go, but Charley, having read the fable of Robert Bruce and the spider, tried again. risking a forward pass when a punt was the logical move. 
He called the numbers that meant for Christy Flana­gan to throw him the ball just across the scrimmage line, Christy threw it to him, and then Charley started doing his stuff. He raced in and out among Tech players almost straight acrsos the field till he got in the clear, and then • those 10 lh second legs of his carried him away from the pack and he sprinted 25 more yards to cross the goal line. 
Tech Scores on Blocked Punt 
The second-string Notre Dame players began sifting back into the battle from that time on to the end. And the southerners grabbed hold of their one and only chance to score when a blocked punt gave them the ball on the Notre Dame seven yar~ line about the ·middle of the last quarter. A puzzling criss-cross and lateral pass­sent Randolph around to the one-yard line, and Stumpy Thomason did come through in the pinch, punching the ball across that· important 36 inches of turf on his first try. 
The reserves had an opportunity to effect an exact duplication of the feat a few minutes later when the guards, Mr. Law and Mr. Cannon, did the blocking and recovering, respectively, of a Georgia Tech punt on. the Tech six yard line. A penalty for offside and some in­effectual end runs, however, stopped them and they lost the ball on do,vns. 
But it wasn't "long before the second stringers ·were back there in touchdown territory again, eager to make up for their. failure. And they did,· with Billy Dew plunging across for·the final score of the day after Jack Chevigny and Jack Elder had· unreeled some thrilling end runs. The last touchdown occurred with ·less than a minute to play. 
Advantage All with Irish 
The total team gai:r:ts in yardages show an· extraordi­narily great advantage lying with the Irish. The net yardage gained from scrimmage, including losses, figures exactly 300 yards, as against a· net of 68 yards for the Golden Tornado, or Yellow Jackets, which is a ·more dis­creet title as far as yesterday's proceedings are concerned. · 
Christy Flanagan seemed to -be getting stopped with an .alarming suddenness on most of the occasions he toted the oval, and he never got away for a real long run, but at that he accounted for 50 of the 300 yards gained from scrimmage, and did it in· 12 attempts, .which means an average of: a little better than four yards at 
a~~ . 
Collins, of course, was the heavy ground-gainer for Rockne's team. Freddie carried the ball 11 times and turned in· a net profit of ·78 yards, giving him ·an average of seven and one-eleventh yards per attempt. Dew was used 11 times and gained 30 yards, while Chevigny gained 47 yards in 11 attempts. Dahman made 28 .yards in six carries, Riley two in three tries, Niemiec ·21 in four .tries, Bray 15 in three tries, and Elder 29 in six attempts. All these gains do not take .into consideration forward pass gains, the total of which for the Irish was 91 yards on six out of 12 heaves. 
[ 29] 
,:..·· 
• 
., ' 
Football. 'l{eview ·of 1927 
I 
I Minnesota Ties Notre Dame in Last Minute I 
By JOliN RICI\:OHD 
South. Bend N ew-'l'imes. 
I 
Faced with the bitter prospect of a third defeat in as many years at the hands of a Notre Dame football eleven, a powerful Minnesota team which_ would not ad­mit defeat beat Notre Dame at its own game in the last two minutes of an epochal struggle, by falling back upon the aerial game to score a touchdown after three thrusts at the Irish line had gained little yardage. 
This touchdown and the successful try for point 
which followed, tied the score at 7-7 and added the final 
dramatic touch which was needed to make the game one 
of the most spectacular ever staged on a gridiron. The 
27,000 fans who jammed the limited space in the Cartier 
field stands witnessed a thrill-packed battle to the finish 
between two of the most powerful football machines in 
the country. 
Played under conditions which were not conducive to good football, there was not a moment in the game which was uninteresting. Apparently unconscious of the biting cold and the frequent flurries of snow, the Irish and the Vikings fought with a courage and a tenacity which produced thrill after thrill for the benefit of the excited fans. Only the frequent fumbling, especially on the part of.Notre Dame, indicated that the players were affected by the adverse weather. 
Pass Brings Victory 
Herb J oesting, the crashing fullback of the Minnesota eleven, broke into the starring role only through the per­fectly timed pass which he hurled to ·walsh, Gopher end, as the latter crossed the Notre Darrie goal line. It was this pass which gave the Gophers their touchdown. Other­wise the work .of J oesting was not impressive, for he was able to make only short gains through the fighting Notre Dame· forwards. 
· Following the Gopher touchdown, the climax of the contest was furnished by Pharmer, a second-string back who specializes in kicking. 'With the score at 7-6, Notre Dame would be the victor if the try ·for the extra point failed. But Doc Spears sent Pharmer into the game and with an unerring toe, the black-haired back placed the ball between the posts. 
Then· did ·the Minnesota cheering section break forth into delirious shouts and cries of joy. The Fighting Irish had heen tied· on their own field for the first time in twenty-two years, a damper had been placed on the Irish .hopes: for a clear claim to the national football title, and Minnesota had gained at least partial revenge for the two defeats which Notre Dame had administered in the past 
two years. 
Irish-Score Early 
Notre Dame's marker came near the close of the first period of the game. Changing his mind about start­ing the second string, Rockne placed .the first team line and the. second string backfield on· the field at the begin­ning of the game. 
By thus outwitting Doc Spears, who sent his second string irito the game, the Irish had a big advantage during 
I.I. I 
' 
the first period, and but for two costly fumbles by 
"\V'ynne, who was playing his first game since the Navy 
encounter, they might have scored earJy in the period. 
The fumbles were recovered by Minnesota on. both occasions, however, and it was not until Collins. had re­'I placed ·wynne and Riley had gone in for McKinney at 
I·
quarter that the Irish could score. 
I. 
A break of the game gave them th.e ball on the Min­nesota 16-yard line when Captain Johnny Smith of Notre· .1 Dame dropped on the ball after Hovde fumbled Niemiec's kick. On the first play, Riley sent Niemiec around his 
1
own right end for a touchdown as the Irish interferers smothered the Gopher defense. .-r 
!
Niemiec's successful try for the extra point gave .the 
I ' 
Irish a seven-poirit advantage which they retained· until a mistaken signal resulted in a loose ball which was hastily covered by the alert Haycraft, Gopher left end, on the Notre Dame 19-yard line. 
·with about three minutes remaining, tries . at the line by Almquist, Hovde and J oesting advanced the ball only two yards. Then Joesting dropped back, the Notre 'Dame secondary defense spread out to break up the expected pass and the play seemed doomed. 
But Walsh, Gopher right end, eluded Niemiec ami received the ·ball from Joesting three steps across the goal line. Pharmer's kick followed and the game· was over so far as scoring was concerned. 
Notre Dame received the kick-off, and tried three passes, all of which failed, in an effort to score again. But the game ended as Niemiec was thrown for a loss be­fore .he could toss the ball on .the last attempt. 
Fumble Hurt Irish 
Offensively they also played well, and opened good holes for the backs, but repeated fumbles prevented the Irish from making any sustained drive on the Gopher
goal. 
After the Notre· Dame touchdown, Spears put his first team on the field and the two teams battled evenly for the remainder.of the first half, but in the second period, the Gophers had a slight advantage over the Irish, .and shortly after the 'opening of the. fourth period, they. had the ball on Notre Dame's one-yard line, and had one down left in which to take it over. But a hard shoestring tackle by Chevigny dropped Almquist for a loss, and Niemiec. pt,mted. the oval· out of the danger zone. 
In the third quarter, with the wind to his back, Alm­quist resorted to the kicking game. Repeatedly he kicked on the first down and usually the ball sailed over Riley's head and far down· the field. As Dahman was doing the kicking for Notre Dame at this· period, the Gophers gained ·much ground through Almquist's powerful kick­ing. His kicks were matched by those of Niemiec, how­ever, for the' Notre Dame back got off some boots that sailed for 50 and 60 yards. · · 
Flanagan once got away for a 45-yard run, but he fumbled. the· ball when tackled. This was the longest 
run of the game. · 
[ 30.]  
! I -l  
l ~  
.  '  ..  - - :  .  - .  .  - . .  "­ '  ~  ..  . .  -­ ~ -....  '  ..,  ., ..  "-~  

Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 7 Minnesota 7 
Irish eyes. were smiling as the last few minutes of the final quarter ticked away. Notre Dame was 'in the lead, 7 to 0; and the Irish had just held :Minnesota for downs in the shadow of the Irish goal posts. Niemiec dropped back to punt formation; and Riley called a line play to use up the remaining time which lte understood from the officials to ·be 15 seconds. The backfield misunder­stood the signals,· and the ball was lobbed halfway be­tween the center and Niemiec. Before Niemiec had a chance to dart up and get it, Nagurski the Gopher guard, broke through and recovered the ball on the fifteen yard line. 
Thrc.c times the "Northcrn Thunderbolt" .J oesting, smashed the Irish line, and three times he was repulsed for no gain. On the fourth down, he drifted back and hurled a forward pass. Out of the dusk came the ball; hurled from Notre Dame's 22-ynrd line, it sped with bullet-like swiftness into the nrms of '\Valsh, the Gopher right end. Doc Spears then inserted Pharmer, who promptly booted the ·ball between the uprights to give :Minnesota a tie. 
From the kickoff to the last play, there wns no let-up in this thrill-packed battle. The. old guard was unani­mous in. saying that it was the most spectacular football game ever staged on historic Cnrtier Field. 
Notre Dame scored in the. first quarter when the Min­nesota safety man fumbled n punt which was recovered by Captain "Clipper" Smith. On the n~xt play Niemiec scooted 18 yards around right end for a touchdown and 
then added the extra point. . 
From this point until :Minnesota scored, the two teams 
battled up and down the chalk lined field on even terms. 
Neither team could gain consistently through. the line. 
Notre Dame stopped J oesting, and :Minnesota stopped 
Chris Flanagan except .for one 30 and another I 5-yard gallop. The statistics show that Flanagan · outgained All American Joesting. 
The Minnesota Daily claimed a victory on first downs, but first. downs in deciding the outcome of a football game arc like foul balls-they go for ten cents a thou­sand. Quoting from the official football rules we find that: "The game shall be decided by the final score at the end of the four periods." 
In I92'1 when Notre Dame won the National Cham­
pionship by defeating Stanford 27 to I 0, "Pop'' '\Varner 
was showing "Rock" how Stanford had really won· the 
game on first downs when "Rock" interrupted with: "I 
hear they are going to 'decide the world's series next 
year ·by th~ number of men left on bas~s." 
Notrc Drime supporters are so accustomed to win­
ning that they consider a tie game as a lost game. The game will be played over and over this winter in the Hot Stove League, but regardless of nil arguments ad-. . '"anced pro ~md con the fact remains that the classic ended with each temn having seven points and it will go 
down on the football records as a tie game. 


[ 31 ] 

/ 
Football Cf{eview of 1927 

Army , 18 Notre Dame 0 
Scoring n greater number of first downs but lacking in its usua·l style of smart football, Notre Dame lost its fourth game out of fourteen starts to th~ seasoned veterans of the Army at theYnnkee before n maddening crowd of 75,000 people. 
The Army drew blood in the early few moments of t~1e game when after an exchange of punts, Cagle broke through the primary .Notre Dame defense and with splendid interference evaded the secondary defense and ran half the distance {)f the field for the first touch­down. 
The try for point was missed, and then Conch Roc,kne yanked the sho'ck troops who had failed in their purpose to hold the Army team and take the first knocks. From that point until 'the termination of the second quarter the play was rather uncertain for ·both teams. 
Notre Dame flushed its nationally known style of straight football toward the end of the second quarter · when it marched a distance of seventy yards toward the Army goal line. However, here the team differed from other Irish teams in that it was unable to punch the ball across for the six point tally, and consequently lost the ball on downs. 
The commencement of the third period found the Irish rooters certain of a reversal of form for their favorites. 

However, due perhaps to the powerful Minnesota outfit that had been met the previous Saturday, and due to the fact that all the breaks of the game were going in the direction of the Army, the Irish continued holding their own and in straight football were able to out-score the Army in first d_owns. 
'In the third quarter, with the ,ball about in mid-field, Nave, the Army quarterback, intercepted an Irish for-. ward pass and raced the remainder of the field for the second touchdown; and again Army missed the try for point. In the final quarter of the game, Cagle inter­cepted one of the many passes that were being hurled and ra·ced about 30 yards for the third and final touch­down of the game. 
The final score, I 8 to 0, in justice to both Army and Notre Dame, does not indicate the ·closeness of this struggle. l\Iuch could be said about individual stars: the sterling work of Captain Smith who played the entire· game; the work of Colerick, 'Valsh, Miller, Riley, Brady, and Collins. However, ·by saying that the entire team as a whole played the Army on even terll?-s in one phase of the game; and outplayed the Army in another phase of the game would be plaCing credit where credit · is due. 

l 
•j 
i 
I 
I 
'f 
'l 
·~ 
I 
I 
1 
l· 
[ 32] 
I 
I 
I 
I 
_l I 
-~ 
Football CJ{cview of 1927 


Army Defeats Notre Dame at Yankee .Stadium 
B.IJ J Al\lES R. HARRISON,l . . 
New Y orlc Times. 
A red-headed halfback, who plods along only a trifle faster than that ancient sprinter, Mercury, wrote· finis across the championship aspirations of the Notre Dame football team yesterday afternoon as a keen Army team ground the Indiana "Irish" into the faded green turf of the Yankee Stadium. 
The fiee't-footed lad· in· question is carried on the official records as ·Christian K. Cagle, but up at the Point he is better known as plain, ordinary Red. He was the hero of a _game that abounded in heroes. 
In the first quarter he dashed forty-eight yards for a touchdown with zest and abandon, and from that blow Notre Dame, reeling and hurt, never recovered. Near the end of the game Chris~ian K. Cagle grabbed a beauti­ful fonvard pass and scampered fifteen or twenty yards more, again ending up behind the Notre Dame goal line -just to prove that the first episode was not an accident. 
The Army got the breaks, but most of th~m were due to the alertness and keenness of Coach Biff Jones' superb eleven. Against many another team Notre Dame might have held the damage down to 6-0 or, conceivably, to a tie sc'o1·e,· but the Hoosiers made mistakes and the Cadets capitalized every one of them, and there you have 
. the story of this fourteenth meeting of ·west Point and South Bend. 
In the first period there happened an incident typical of the entire game. On the fourth down Army, failing to gain, kicked to the Notre Dame 20-yard line, but the Hoosiers were off-side. The pigskin was brought back and Army got a first down on the 48-yard line. 
· The Cadets had surrendered the ball once, but here it was back in their possession, and what a difference that little fact made in the fortunes of this bitterly-fought battle! For, a minute later, Cagle· was off on a long journey around the right flank of the Notre Dame battle­front. Some journeys may end, as the poet.said, in lovers' meetings, hut this particular ex.cursion terminated satis­factorily in a touchdown and six large points. 
The Notre Dame players put up an energetic com­plaint, alleging that Cagle had stepped out. of bounds. They ran to the sideline and pointed accusingly at an alleged foot print, but Referee O'Brien threw their case out of court. 
And froni that point on ·Notre Dame was a beaten team, even though it surged back fiercely, savagely. The Indiana "Irish" put up a wonderful display of sheer· courage and raw fighting ability, but their own eagerness 
.was their undoing, as witness that fatal off-side penalty when the Army momentarily had conceded .defeat and was surrendering the ball. , 
Red Cagle's ,18-yard run had turned the trick, and later happenings were interesting but not vitally im­portant. In the third period, Notre Dame, passing des­perately in an attempt to overcome that six.;.point lead, let loose an aerial fling which Billy Nave, the Army quarterback, intercepted. Having a clear field ahead of him, the Cadet ran sixty yards for another touchdown, and . no Hoosier as much as laid a finger on him. · 
·In the fourth period Red Cagle· broke loose again. With the ball on Notre Dame's 32-yard line, Hutchinson flipped a pass to Red, who was out in the open with absolutely no company, and sped about 15 yards with a belated Notre Dame tackler chugging along in his wake. 
· Paradoxical as it may seem, the best concerted and sustained offensive of the afternoon· was put on by the losing team. In the second period, with the minutes speeding fast, the slumbering g~ant from· South Bend stretched his arms drowsily, yawned and awoke. And for the next five minutes the fighting "Irish" put on an at­tack which was literally beautiful to watch.. 
Forward passes, deftly tossed, filled the air. Notre Dame backs sliced through the line, punched a path off tackle, turned the ends-all of them moving with speed and drive and precision, behind perfectly timed inter­ference. It was a· great sight. Here was Rockne at his best. And the attack stormed its way to the 8-yard line, 
· having traveled 72 yards in an incredibly short time. 
Here the Ar~y defense stiffened and. refused to yield another foot and Notre Dame's great opportunity went a-glimmering. Never again during the afternoon were the Hoosiers to rise to that same height. It was as if they had given .everything they had in that one magnifi­cent pyrotechnical display; · 
True, they reached the 5-yard line in the last .minute of play, with a fine exhibition of the art of forward pass­ing, but by that time it was much too late for the men of 
·Rockne· to pull themselves out of. a deep, deep hole. The final whistle blew as the "Irish" were struggling desper­
ately toward the goal line. , · 
Notre Dame men could console themselves last ·night by pointing out what might have been, if. a few things had only happened differently, but it is true, neverthe~ less, that the better team won. Arid this, despite the fact that Notre Dame made twelve first downs to Army's
eight. 
Smartness was the keynote of the Army offense and defense. The Cadets went at their work with more sure­ness, more adroitness and more intelligence than did the Midwesterners. They made fewer mistakes by far than Notre Dame. Incidentally, the Army yesterday was about 50 per cent better than the team which lost to· Yale. 
Two of Notre Dame's great faults we1:e weak tackling and failure to protect against the interception of for­ward passes. Has Rockne been neglecting. the tackling dummy lately? Time after time Army back were trapped far behind the line of scrimmage, but, instead of being tossed for a 10-yard loss, they would wriggle loose and dash away for a 10-yard gain. . . 
"With every seat in the vast horseshoe filled, the Sta­dium presented a striking picture as the corps of Cadets paraded onto the field thirty minutes before game time. Entering from the north gate, headed by their hand, the future generals marched once around the· field and then halted in platoon formation on the gridiron while the crowd gave them a cheer right from the heart. 
James J. ·walker, mayor of this village, was one of those who watched the big parade of the Cadets. During the second half he :moved over and sat with Father Matthew ·walsh, head of Notre Dame, but the Mayorfailed to bring any luck with him. · 
The statistics of the game do not go far to interpret Army~s victory. Notre Dame made twelve first downs to Army's eight, while the perfect execution of several of the South Bend forward passes in the final period which 
.netted many yards were of no value in the final reckon­ing in comparison with the few passes wide-awake Army players intercepted and turn~d into .scoring plays. 
... Three touchdowns~one in the first period, another in the third and still another in the final round-..:sent 80,000 p·ersons away from the park convinced that the Notre Dame football team is only human, after all, and that Knute Rockne, though a master magician, now and then can not pull· a rabbit out· of an empty hat. 
[ 33] 
)I 

't, \ 
Football CJ{eview of 1927 



i I Shock Troops Defeat Drake 
i 
By E. c. LYTTON 
. i 
D£!s 1lloines Correspondent. 
; 
Coach Knute Rockne's Fighting Irish from Notre Dame put a terrific crimp in the tail of the Drake Uni­versity. bulldog here this afternoon when they clearly outplayed the Drake gridders in every department of the game to win handily by the score of 32-0. Notre Dame put over touchdowns in the first, third and fourth quarters, and counted twice in the second period. 
Coach Rockne, who, previous to the game, had ex­pressed concern as to how his team would come back after their defeat at the hands of Army has real reason for elation. For Notre Dame came back with a venge­ance as soon as the opening whistle blew, blasting Drake . hopes early in the first quarter and setting a pace that was far too fast for their opponents today and one. that, if maintained, threatens disaster for the University of Southern California, at Chicago, next Saturday. 
Drake Hand.icapped 
Drake was handicapped throughout the game by the absence of "Chad" Pettibone, right end, who is suffering from influenza. As a result, Coach Ossie Solem sent Jack Barnes, first string quarterback, ~in at right ~nd for Drake, with Barney Meyers playing at Barnes' usual quarterback position. Barnes was injured early in the game a'nd was replaced by Dick Zvacek. 
· Notre Dame's first score came early in the· first period with Rockne's shock troops leadin_g the preliminary at­tack, as usual. At this time the Irish secured the ball on Drake's 35-yard line after ·an exchange of punts. Niemiec, who started at left half for Notre Dame, then took the ball and running behind perfect interference, skirted Drake's flank for a touchdown. A moment,later Niemiec kicked goal and the score stood Notre Dame 7, Drake 0. · 
Irish Score Again
. . 
Early in the second period Notre Dame worked the 
ball down to Drake's 22-yard line, when Fullback Collins smashed . off left tackle and ran through_ the Drake sec­.ondary defense to the Drake two-yard line. Collins then crashed right guard for. a touchdown, but the ball was called back when both teams were offside. A forward pass from Elder to Coleric, over the Drake goal line, was then good for a to.uchdown and Elder place-kicked 
for the extra point. 
Shortly after this Drake threatened to score when a long forward pass to Meyers was successful and the ball was· carried deep into Notre Dame's territory. Coach Rockne then inserted Riley, Flanagan, and other first string men into the game. However, danger was averted when Elder speared an attempted Drake pass on Notre Dame's five-yard line and raced 95 yards for a touch­down. It was one of the prettiest runs seen at the Drake stadium in many years. The try for goal failed and the half ended shortly thereafter with the score standing Notre Dame 20, Drake 0. 
Drake Fumbles 
Notre Dame took advantage of an opportunity to score in the third period when Drake fumbled the ball on the 20-yard line and the ~rish recovered. A forward pass Riley to Dahman, was good for a touchdown, but the ~tte~pt to kick goal failed. 
with the· first string backfield out of the game, the Rambling Rocks scored their fifth touchdown in the final quarter when Prelli took the ball. on Drake's 20-~ard line and skirted left end on a beautiful run. Elder failed to kick goal. · · 
Notre Dame, 32; Drake,· 0. 
Througho'ut the third and fourth periods, Drake at­tempted many desperate forward passes in an attempt to score, but these either were incomplete or were inter­cepted by Notre Dame. The Irish followed the ball like hawks and the Bulldogs did not have nearly so much success with forward passes as they had against Minnesota. 
Drake Passes Fail 
Drake had two good chances to score when Barney Meyers snagged forward passes, with practically an open field between himself and. the enemy goal. However, Collins made a beautiful race from behind to down Meyers when he almost got away in the second period, 1rom the Notre Dame warriors as he raced for their goal line. 
For Notre Dame, Collins, Flanagan; Wynne, Colerick, McKinney, Moynihan, Brady, Niemiec and Chevigney, played brilliant football. However, several Notre Dame stars were hardly in the game long enough to have an opportunity to distinguish themselves. 
Irish Outclass Bulldogs 
For Drake, Captain Bill Cook, Zvacek, Meyers, Del­mege and Simpson played a fine game. Throughout the game, Drake could not seem to get started against the Irish on offense, while on defense Notre Dame ripped the line, threw forward passes and ran the ends against Drake with abandon, so that the score is a fair indication of the comparative ·merits of the two teams as they played today. 
With .the exception of Niemiec who was injured in the .first quarter, the Notre Dame warriors came through the game in good shape. Elmer ·wynne has regained his old form after recovering from the injury received in the Navy game, and all the regulars received a well needed rest. The way Rockne's boys performed today, Southern California will have plenty of competition next Saturday when they meet the Irish in the nation's grid­iron classic at Soldiers' Field. Coach Rockne was very optimistic abo1,1t the impending struggle as he boarded the train for South Bend. · · 
Statistics of the Game 
Drake Notre Dame 
Kickoffs .................................................. 1 6 Kickoffs .................................................. 1 6 Yards on kickoffs ................................·.... 60 275 Yards returned on intercepted passes.. 0 1l0 Yards returned kickoffs ........................ 93 0 Yards gained scrimmage ........................ 50 270 First downs ............................................ 2 11 Yards lost in scrinimage ........................ 23 8 Number of punts ............................~....... 11 9 Yards totaled on punts .......................... 448 307 Kicks offs ........ .-....................................... 1 6 .Total yards punts returned....~··············· 18 44 Attempted forward passes .................... 19 7 Pas-ses completed .................................... . 3 6 Yards gained on passes .......................... 92 41 Passes incomplete ............ :..................... 13 0 Passe.s intercepted by.............................. 1 3 Penalties .................................................. 4 9 Yards lost on penalties .......................... 30 62 
Fumbles .........~ .........................................·. . 5 · 0 
Fumbles recovered ................................ 4 1 
Punts blocked· ........................................ 0 1 
Field goals attempted ................... ·......... .1 0 
[ 31·] 
t t" ,• / 1 ~ : I > ' , ­
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 32 
Drake 
The gridiron version of "The Big Parade" was enacted in Des Moines with Knute Rockne directing and Elder, Niemiec· and Prelli playing the principal roles. The first team being tired nfter their terrific game the Saturday previous with the Army, Rock de­cided to rest them up andhy using the second team, to find out just what he· would have in the way of material when the 1928 football season rolls around. 
Judging from the· manner in which the second and third teams performed, Rock has no reason to worry about the strenuous schedule he has .mapped out for next year. The Dean of Coaches smiled happily when .Tack Elder, "the _flying cloud," intercepted a pass and sprinted 90 yar'ds a la Layden for a touchdown, cover­ing the distance. in about nine seconds. The Kentucky Colonel promises to be another horseman. Butch Niemiec ~riced 35 yards for a touchdown after shaking off half a dozen am·bitious tacklers. Jim Brady, understudy to Riley, called his ..plays like a veteran and was par­ticularly brilliant in returning punts. Billy Dew smashed the line for steady gains and· Fred Collins caused sev­eral .slject'ators to exclaim: "'Vhere's the cannon?" Jack Chevigny also contributed some nice gallops and 
· played a stellar defensive game. Law, :McGrath, · .Moynihan, Colerick and Cannon .were the outstanding linemen. 
Scarcely had the game started when Niemiec on a ·. --::--beautiful run of 35 yards deposited the ball behind the Bulldog's goal posts for the first Notre Dame touch­
0 
down. Elder passed· to Col erick, the demon pass re­ceiver, for the second score after a long march down the field. Elder snared a Drake pass on hi_s own ten­yard line and squirmed, twisted and dodged his way through the entire Drake team and ran 90 yards for the third. touchdown. A pretty pass, Riley to Dahman, was responsible for the fourth and J oc Prelli slid off left tackle for 18 yards to make the final touchdown of the day. 
Notrc Dame.'s offensive was smooth, well timed and had the coordinated i>recision that was lacking in the Army. game. Every one of the players who made the trip saw action and if the rules had allowed for a play.:. ing coach, Rock himself might have taken up his old wing. position. The question of the hour as far as the spectators were concerned. was where arc they all com­ing from? Three Des :Moines newspaper men were carted off in an ambulance after an unsuccessful attempt to keep track of the substitutions. . 
Notrc Dame's passing attack worked well, the Irish completing six passes out of seven attempts. End runs and off tackle smashes were particularly effective, the Irish gainirig at will. Notre Dame experienced no trouble in breaking up Drake's vaunted aerial game. 
The older members of the cast saw action for only a short time~ Riley, Flanagan, Dahman and 'Vynne almost wrecked the Drake forward wall during their few minutes of play. 


[ '35] 

·I I 
:I 
1:,, [I II
li 
[! 
Football· 'l{eview of .1927 

Notre Dame· 7 
U~ S. c~ 
The name of "Bucky" Dahman was inscribed in the :mnals of Notre Dame's immortals at the·close of the gre:tt intersectional game at Soldiers Field. For it was Dahman's spectacular catch of a forward pass 28 yards down the field from. Charley Riley that gave the Irish the necessary six points to tie the score. And it was Dahman's well placed kick tha:t sent the ball flying be­tween the goal posts for the precious seventh point that proved to be the margin of victory. 
After both teams had scored early in the first quarter 
· the game settled down to a battle of lines, and in this important angle, honors were aboUJt even. If anything the shade rested with Notre Dame who made eleven first downs, to eight for the Tro]ans. Notre Dame' gained I 99 yards from scrimmage while the western invaders made I37.· Notre Dame completed two for­wurd pusses for. 1thirty-one yards and the Trojans con­nected with three aeriul heaves for a crain of 18 yards. 
Christy Flanugun closed his colle!iate footbdll uc­tivitics by playing· the greutest gum~ of his brilliunt career. Chris uveraged five yards every time he took the ball and several times came dancrerously close to breaking :nvay for a touchdown. Elm~r \Vynne l;acked up the line in his usual flawless munner and was a power on offense. Cl~arley Riley with crippled knees gamely played the entire game, out-smarting the Trojans. The entire Notre Dame line played great football. 
~Iorlcy Drury, the flashy Trojan halfback proved himself to be an all-around star. Drury wa; equ~lly · 
6 
effective in. crashing the .line, smashing off taekle or skirting the ends. On the defensive he nailed· Flanagan several times when it looke"d as. if Chris was going places. Drury, truly ·an All-American, was a constant menacing threat. 
The Notrc Dame eleven proved its right to be called t'1e "Fighting Irish"· byeoming .from behind to win; A less courageous outfit might have been demoralized bv the first rush of the Trojans. But the only effect notic~­able was that it caused the "Fightirig Irish" to get down to .busi~ess and forge inlto the lead inimedia:tely. · . The U. S. C~ game closed the football careers of "Clipper ·Smith, Elmer .vVynne,' ~'Bucky'' . Dahman, 
.Chris Flanagan, Charley Riley, ".Jke" Voedisch, "Chile" lValsh, John Poliskey,. J olm Fredericks ".Toe" Benda ".Jim" Hurlbert, ".Joe" Morrissey, Fr~nk ~IcCa~thy; ".Ioe" Prelli, "Chunk" ~Iurrin, "Joe" Nash .John Do"'arn 
and "Tom" Byrne. ' ' 
The U. S. C. game ·marked the first invasion ·of a leading western team and it was enough to crive the :Middle \Vest a wholesome respect for the footb~ll ~a.mc as .practiced on the Pacific coast~ It 'vas the thirl vic­tory for Notre Dame .over a coast eleven, the Irish having defeated U. S. C. last year ia to I 2 and Stan­ford 2•1 to 10 in. 192•1. :The game also broke the at­~~ndance record, the total attendance ·being 120,000. I he game ended :the hardest schedule that the Irish have eve·r attempted and with a record of SC\'en won ont! tied and one lost Notre Dame .terminated :m~ther glor~ous season. 
j 


[36) 

Football 'l{eview of 1927 

Irish. Close Season with Victory over U. S. C. 
By \\7ALTER Eci\.ERSALL 
Chicago Tribune 
In the presence of 117,000 enthusiastic fans, Notre Dame defeated Southern California yesterday on Sol­diers Field, 7 to 6, in the greatest intersectional football game ever played in this country. . . . The crowd was treated to some splendid line crashing, end running, and beautifully executed forward passes. It also saw hard tackling and blocking by some of the nation's leading players. .The spectators saw Capt. Morley Drury of the Trojans and Christy Flanagan of Notre Dame tear off the tackles, smash into the line, and block in a manner that stamped them two of the greatest backs on the college gridiron. · 
Those fighting Irish never gaye an inch .when their goal line was threatened and they forced the Trojans to forward pass when close to the goal. These passes either were intercepted or went for touchbacks. The only ex­ception 'yas the one in the opening period which resulted in the Trojans' lone score. · 
Flanagan Biggest Gainer . In the matter of individual play, Flanagan of Notre Dame had the edge. He carried the ball 124 yards in twenty-two attempts .and Morley Drury of California ·'toted. the oval 100 yards in twenty-eight attempts. Dahman of Notre Dame averaged 44.5 yards on his punts and Drury and Hibbs 49 yards. Notre Dame was penalized four times for a total of twenty· yards and the Trojans were guilty of fouling on two o'ccasions for the ·same number of yards.· · After both elevens had scored in the opening period and Southern California had failed to score the extra point after touchdown, which gave Notre Dame a one point lead, a play carne up in the .third period which caused some dispute. The decision,· although questioned by Capt. Drury and the other Southern California players; was correct. . The decision hinged on a question of judgment as to whether the ball was in control and possession of Riley, the Notre Dame quarterback who had intercepted a. Southei·n~ California fo·rward ·pass. :·The '1'roj_m1s ·;'4ad worked.·= the :ball ·deep: into~· Notre· Dame·· territory .but were held· to: small' yardage· close to the-Ramblers' ·goal in three.-downs: . · 
: ~ 
· .·Disputed.Play Explained · · · As a 'last ,i·es.oi:t~ Southern ·California·attempted a: for­ward pass~ .. ~iley of. Notre .Dame .le~ped into;. the air.:in an effort to. cat'ch. the· ball.· A fraCtion of asecond after he caught· it. h.e was ~ackled ..by· a T_i·ojan _player arid the . ball struck ·in the end zone and .rolled· over the· end line. A touchba-ck ahvays ·results· when the ball on.._~ny. incom­plete forward-pass strikes ·the ground in. the end zpne. The officials,: who were on top of· the play;· ruled that Riley did ·not· have the ·ball: in his· possession an~· un·der controL· Consequently· the play went .as ·a totichback·and 
the ball was brought out ·to Notre Dame's hventy-yard line were_ it'·.;vas. put .in play~ by· ~he .Rockn~· el_ev~·n. . · Capt. "D1;ury of Southern· .California .anp his players asserted Riley had control and possession Of the ball·a_nd then fumbled. :If this had been the· ca_se,: SoutP.e1:n. Cali­fornia would have beert' given:: a· safety and ~wo·-points, .which ._would:· have :reversed· the: r~sulfjnto ·:a_tl-'8 .to· 7 
victory f~r ._the ..Ti·ojans.: '· 
·~ · : ' -f~·o}~ns S~o~e-First · · ·· -. . . As 'the :g·~me: stai·ted< ·out:: '.jf: looked; as ::i( S()uthei·~1 California-would. win by a one-sided -score., :N.otre pame received: the· ·opening: kick..:off ·but 'vas _unable to. gain. 
,. 
I Elder .punted. oufof .bounds.in .niidfield and i.t:was .then that the powe1;ful· atta.ck "of· the ·Ti.-ojans ..as·s.ei-ted ·itself.
' 
Capt. Drui~y :went to· '\vork ·.and, practically ·unaided, took 1-· the oval to-the Notre·Dame-eleven-yard·line.. The. Tr_ojan captain' crashed· th1~ough his· 1:ight · guar·d 'for·fou'r yin~ds,
I 
j 
sliced off his left tackle for two more, and on the next play broke loose off his right tackle and ·was forced out of bounds by Elder of Notre Dame on the Ramblers' eleven-yard line. 
Edelson then went through his right guard for two yards and Drury hit the same spot for two more. On the next play Drury was stopped without gain. An un­balanced line formation· then was called from the huddle. It started as a running play with the ball being passed to Drury, who faked a run by taking a few steps. Morley stopped suddenly and then shot a forward pass to Russell Saunders, the Trojan back,. who had raced clear of the Notre Dame secondary defense and caught the oval on the goal line. 
r 
. Abad pass spoiled Drury's effort to register the extra point by a placement kick. The score was 6 to .0 in favor of the Trojans and Coach Rockne of Notre Dame then made his first substitutions. Dahman. took Che­vigny's place in the back field. Flanagan replaced Elder and Riley relieved Brady at quarterback. 
Notre Dame received the following kickoff and Capt. Drury of Southern California kicked off to Flanagan who returned to the Notre Dame thirty-five yard line. Flana­gan and Collins made nine yards on line drives and Dahman failed in another line thrust. Dahman punted out of bounds on his forty-yard line, but Southern Cali­fornia was guilty of illegal use of the hands and was 
penalized fifteen  yards.  ·  
Dahman Punts  Out  of Bounds  
The  penalty placed  the  oval  in  midfield. Flanagan  

failed to gain off his right tackle but on the next play drove straight through .his left tackle. on a delayed plunge for six yards. Collins was sent at the same spot for two more yards and then Dahman punted and the ball was downed on the Trojans' five-yard line. 
Drury was nailed for a two-yard loss· when he. at­tempted to ·sweep the Notre Dame left end. On the fol­lowing· plaY-the ·Southern California· captain· purited to Riley_ ·who-slippe4 and fell as -he ·caught· the· oval on ·his forty-eight yard mark... , . . 
Notre· Dame. then. went .to-work. · Flanagan drove straight through his .left tackle· for three yards.. On the next play h_e ·fo~nd a~ openi~g th1~ough hi~ .right guard and galloped to the Trojans' forty-yard' line. -Flanagan and .Riley carried the~ ball to· the coast-eleven's twenty­eight yard line on a series of ·line plays. A running forward pass, Riley to Flanagan, was incompleted. · 
On the next play, a complicated one in which Riley faked the ·ball to Flanagan and Collins and then ran back ten yards, . a forward_ pa_ss. was hurled .by .Riley to Dahman, :who crossed .the goal line for a touchdown. The pass .,vas.. made ··over .Saunders; the Trojan back. Not .satisfied. with. scoring the six points for the touch­down,. Dahman. scored. the extra pqint by·. kicking the goal from placement,· making the score 7 to 6 in favor of Notre 'Dame.. · 
Tha"t .ended the sco.ring. of. the· great game. Late in the second.· qu.arter,-·Southern· Californ~ri. threatened · when Saunders' forward pass-from the ·Notre Dame eleven-yard line .was ·iricompleted·. -The Trojans again c·ame close to scoring· iri ·the thh;d quai·ter,·. whe~ a for.ward pass was intercepte~ _by Riley· and afterward· went as _a touchback. 
Notre Dame. h~d ·the~·-wind. adylmt~ge ·. i~ the fourth quarte1~-imd thi·eatened to s·core-on three occasions. The Ramblel's. to·ok~.the ball to· the ·Trojans' ·thirty-two: yard line, ,vh.ere they were forced ·to kick and again to South­ern Califor-nia's twenty-eight yard mai·k, where Flanagan fumbled:· Ne·ar. the. close· of the: final period,-Notre Dame advanced -to Southern. California's seventeen:.yard line after Dahnian ·had intercepted aTrojan forward pass. 
I 
I 
[ 37] 
I 
I 
I 
I 
L­
('~ ~~ 
~.'.I 
:(1..
!1
llj 
j, i[! i\ 
\.\\ 
:II 
,,j;l 
:I 
)I 
i'' 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame's Football Immortals 
B.1J GE.ORGE TnEvon 0 f the N e'W y or!~ Sun. 
All Time Notre Dame Elevens 
First Team Pos. Second Team 
·walsh --------------------------Center·----------------------Feeney Edwards -----------------------.Guard ------------------------Dolan 
H. Anderson ----------------Guard ------------------------Mayer Dimmick -----------'-----------Tackle ------------------Philbrook Shaw ----------------------------Tackle ------------------------Wieb Rockne ------------------------End --------------------------KileyFarley -~----·-----------~----------End ------------~-------Matthews Dorais ~---:·-------------"·-----Quarter ------------Stuhldreher 

Gipp ---------------------------­
H. :Miller ---------------------­Salmon -----------------------­
\Vhen sycam~res whisper under a pale Indiana. moon 
they tell the epic story of George Gipp, Notre Dame's 
immortal halfbnck. This roll call of Hoosier stars con­
tains many a legendary name, ·but all of them· pale 
before the luminous radiance that was Gipp. Blazing 
fiercely like a meteor not long destined to dazzle earthly 
eyes, George Gipp flamed across Ndtrc Dame's football · horizon for a fleeting span, yet in those golden moments he -\\·o,;c the brilliant thread of his personality into the 
warp and woof of Hoosier gridiron history. 
Along with Gipp in Notre Dame's all time backfield we find those two memorable "brick tops"-"Rcd" l\Iillcr and "Red" Salmon. It was Harry Miller's unfor­ge~tablc slashes off tackle that conquered l\fichigan in 1909 after the \Volvcrincs had beaten Pennsylvania and l\Iinnesota. "Red" l\Iillcr was a contemporary of Ted Coy's. Some critics rated him the equal of Yale's lnm:tan locomotive. Next to Gipp, "Red" l\Iillcr stands out as Notrc Dame's most effective ·ball carrier. Not as fast or as powerful as .Gipp, Harry l\Iillcr was even more elusive. 
Lou SALMON 
Lou Salmon is enshrined i~ Notre Dame's Pantheon as the first South Bender to catch \Valter Camp's eye. Salmon was a pile driving lin~ smasher of· the knock down and drag 'em out era. Every Notre Damer has heard of Salmon. He is one of those legendary figures whose fame grows with the passing years. Salmo~'s reputation is richly deserved. Not even Layden or Eichenlaub could hit a line as lustily as the Red Prince of plungers. At Toledo in 1902, Salmon alone came ncar beating l\Iichigan's matchless point.:.a-minute team. Severity-yard punts were not . uncommon with Salmon. On· defense he was a team in himself. In 1903 he held Nortlnvcstcrn for downs twice in the shadow of his goal posts. 
Elmer Layden, the real brains of the Four Horse­men, earns the fullback berth on team B. Layden had Back --------------·········· '\Vynne
Back ...................... Castner Back ----------------------Layden 
a chess mind.· His running action was as smooth as oiled silk. .Elmer hit a line with his nose scraping the turf; He could r·un' the 220 in close'to record time. and trim sprinters in the "century," yet it is as a line plunger and defensive genius that he is known to fame. Inter­cepti~g enemy passes was Layden's specialty. Heaves into his territory were boomerangs sure enough, since Elmer reveled in converting them into touchdowns. For consistency in punting, Layden has never had a superior.. 
Ra'' Eiche~laub was the biO"O"est of Notrc Dame's 
~ bb . 
fullbacks. 'Vhcn he hit a line, something had to give. He· was fast ,too. "Stan" Cofall once challeng~d· him to a 100-yard dash. "Eich': won standing up, :but it was a IJhyrric victory, since he pulled a tendon and crippled himself for his senior year. Paul Castner, a remark­able punter and drop-k.ickcr, was also a shifty cari-ic1; and watch-dog on defense~ Castner was perhaps the surest shot at goal who ever drop-kicked for Notre Dame. Before one Army game,· Castner booted fifteen successive goals frmn the 30-yard line. Some criti.cs would rntc Johnny l\Iohardt n·hend of Chester \Vynnc, but a careful comparison of their' performances leads incYitnhly to a preference for 'Vynnc. · "Sleepy Jim" Crowley, of the Horsemen, was a whiz at etttting in and · 
SCISsoring. Cro\~ley W:lS a beautiful exponent . of rhythm. ~lis. running mate, Don l\Iiller, shone on the wide. slants and sweeps. Pete Vaughan later played on Princeton's 19·12 eleven. 
Nobody will do at center but Admn \Valsh. An in­
. spiring leader, \Valsh lwd the spiritual ~is well as the mechanical attributes wi1ich the ideal center must pos­sess. His feeding of the ball to the Four Horsemen re­mains :i classic of the snapper..:baek's art. As strong as a bull on the charge, 'Valsh was a.s acth·e as an alley cat on defense. Grit? 'Valsh once plnycd through a· gruelling Army game with two brok.en fingers! He was perhaps the most beloved of Notrc Dame leadcrs-:J fearless, honorable sportsman. 'Valsh's flawless rJassin~ 
[as]' 
I J I~ • • • \ I ;_ • " ~ • • • ~ • ~ 
Football CJ{eview of 1927 
All Time Notre Dame Elevens 
Third T earn Pos. Fourth T earn Boeringer .................... Center .................... Trafton Bachman ...................... Guard ........................ Keefe 
M. Smith .... : ................. Guard ................ Fitzgerald 
D. Jones ...................... Tackle .................... Lathrop Bach ............................ Tackle ...................... Cotton 
C. Crowley .................... End ................ E. Anderson Gushurst ........................ End ............................ Kirk Hamilton ......................Quarter .................... Phelan 
J. Crowley ..............~-----Back ......................D. Miller Mohardt ...................... Back .................... Stankard Eichenlaub ................... Back .................... Vaughan 
was done from an intricate shift which would ha,·e 
handcuffed the average center. Feeney, a· bearcat on 
offense, was pivot on Rockne's team. "Bud" Boerin­
ger's splendid play is fresh in mind. Trafton might have . developed into Notre Dame's greatest center had he played longer at South Bend. 
"Cap'' Edwards, leader of the 1909 team, which 
tanned l\Iichigan, was perhaps the steadiest of Notre 
Dame's guards on defense. He .stood like Thomas at 
Chickamauga. Hartley Anderson, known as "Hun.k," 
was a swashbuckling, domineering· guard who gained 
a mental as well as physical ascendancy over his rivals. 
Right on "Hunk's" heels comes "Horse" l\Iayer, a 
present-day product. Rockne rates l\fayer as Notre 
Dame's greatest guard on the strength of his 1926 show­
ing, but :Niayer was late in developing. He was medi­
ocre in his first season. It was :Mayer who stopped . Harry. '\Vilson cold this year, sifting through Army's line to smother almost every Cadet play in its inception. The collapse of Notre Dame's defense against Carnegie · was due largely to :Mayer's absence. 
"Rosy" Dolan, offensive guard on the 1909 team, 
was a wonder at diagnosing plays and heading inter­
ference. He played fullback on defense. l\Iorrie Smith, 
who weighed only 1,15 pounds, exemplified the power 
of mind over matter. Smith was as tough as whalebone. 
Charley Baclunan, tall and superbly proportioned, used 
brains as well as brawn. Harvey Brown, a splendid 
guard, is nosed out ·by those two crashing interferers, . Emmett Keefe and Freeman Fitzgerald. · 
Ralph Diimnick-fast for his 200 pounds, with gorilla-like reflexes. On the old tackle around pla? Dimmick used to take some stopping. On defense this stalwart tackle was worth the whole side of the line. Ralph played on the teams of 1908-Q9-l 0. Notre Dame never had a finer tackle. Almost as good was "Buck" Shaw, a Greek god come back to life. "Buck" resented being called ~he campus Adonis and took it out on his foes. A destroyer, this man Shaw, wrecking plays ruth­lessly. He used his tremendous bulk intelligently. De­spite his size, Shaw was fast enough to make the track team. It doesn't seem right to keep as able a tackle as Tom Lieb off the first team. ~Tom boasted as fine a pair of hands as ever delighte~ a coach's eye. Big as hams they were with prehensile fingers that' tore through · anything in human mold. George Philbrook, Zippc~ Lathrop, Dcke Jones, Joe Bach and "Fod" Cotton were tackles to the manner born. They ripped through to the runner. Had Joe Boland not ·broken his _leg last season he might have ousted Cotton. 
At the ends we find Farley and Rockne. Farley is the prefect in charge of the ."off-campus" students at Notre Dame. Father John Farley played 1897-1900 and was probably the outstanding player in the period. His defensive play was marvelous, he could cover kicks splendidly, and on the old end-around-play his ground gaining left the opponents gasping. On O~tober · 25, 1909, he alone held the Indiana team scoreless until he was carried from the field unconscious in the last few minutes of play. 
Knute Rockne gets the assignment at the other end, and what an end he was. 'Vhen he hit them, they stayed down. He vms fast as a deer, could catch passes, and the old onside kick was a dish ·he could cat. '\Ve shall never forget how poorly. l\Ierrillat, a great end, was made to appear in 1913, when "Rock" had his big day on the piuins. Other outstanding ends were Roger Kiley, the demon pass receiver; Charley Crowley, Co­lumbia's present coach.; Fred Gushurst, Lee l\Iatthews. Eddie Andcrsoi1, another pass receiving wizard and Bernie Kirk. The latter afterward. starred at l\Iichigan. 
Charles Dorais wins the quarterback assignment 
from Harry Stuhldreher ·by a gnat's whisker. Dorais \•.ras the perfect field general. He could punt, drop-kick, run the ends and forward pass. He was a good inter­ferer, blocker, and a true tackler. 'Vhat a treat to watch him catch punts, and run 'em ·back, often for touch­downs. Football will never forget his perfect passing the day he made the Army look foolish by tossing 'em to Rockne. Stuhldreher, a "stop-go" runner with a fine · change of pace, was only a shade less effective. Tre­mendously strong in the legs, Sttrhldrcher was hard to upset. Those who arc not aware that Layden really was the brains· of the Four Horsemen, rate Stuhldreher higher as a strategist than is perhaps his due. Don Hamilton, a defensive wizard, and Jim Phelan, a think­ing machine, get the call over the spectacular; but 
erratic Brandy. 

[ 39] 
. I 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
G_ENE TUNNEY 
Speculator, N. Y. November 11, 1927 ::\In. Cums FLANAGAN, Sorin Hull, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~I Y DEAn C1fms :­Your letter of October 20th has just been brought to my attention. Due to the many interests and trips that take me a_way fron1 New York, I have not been nble to keep up with my correspondence in the way I would like to. Howei\•er, I trust this hclated reply to your letter will not affect the pl:m of mnking up the '27 FooTBALL REVIEW. 
I regret to inform you that my· contract with the King Features Syndicate prevents my writing for any. other publication. :\Vere )t at all possible, I would be most honored to have the privilege of contributing to your publication. 
Please accept my sincere thanks for your best wishes. I am most appreciative · of your thought of me. ·· 
Sincerely yours, 
GENE 1'UNNEY. 
A Letter to Sa11ta Claus 
By 'VARREN ,V, BROWN 
Chicago IIerald-E.vami1[er 
November 20, 1927. I went next to Notre Dame, n place that is to be Ch~cugo, Illinois. made famous some fifteen years hence, as the stampinn­. DEAR SANTA :-Man wants. ·but Little here below, 
grounds of a certain Bill Brown and there I saw l\Ir 0 
R k ' ' .
oc ·ne s 'boys, and Dr. Spears' boys engage in a tic of 'Visconsin. 
and wants that Little long, as they say at the University 
game. I was sure ~hnt this was what it wns, until I read So I'm wondering, Santa, if you won't fix me up some of the vVestern Conference reports 'vhich seemed to indicate that 1\Iinnesotn had won. ' 
with a football game that will be won by the score of G75 to 0. As I am writing this letter, Snnta, soon after this In the course of this year 1927, in which we have g:u.ne,. I wi~I n.ot be a~le to include my report on Chicago­successfully resisted the advance of King George IllmOis, l\fiClngun-lVlmnesotu, and Notre Dame-Southern
on Chicago, hut. have permitted "Queen High", u very Cnlifornia, but I dare say that whatever tenms I decide 
niftJ~ musical comedy, to come in, I have l1ud to watch to be winners, will be wrong. You understand, Sa~ta. the usual number of football games. · thnt I never make my decisions until after the n-ames · The first was between Ohio State and 'Vittenberg, have been played, nnd, until this year, the svste1~ was not without its ad\"antan-cs. · ·
:md it was just the kind of a game that u game between 
' 0 
Ohio State and 'Vittenberg ·figu.red to be. But we'll ~Now I II tell yon what I want you to do, Santa. Get -pass that one over, as Riley said on fourth down, and me a job reporting a game, in which the score will he . goal 'to go. 675 to 0. Then I'll he reasonably certain that the team Then I saw Northwestern's Not-so-wildcats play which has the O, will be unable to arrruc me out· of Ohio State. I was practically certain that Northwestern tl,Iinkin.g tl~at it actually was defeated. If you get this won, but discovered Iuter that they had been completely letter m time, Santa, I have no ohJ'cction to rrcttino· 
1 d . d 0 0
outplayed, and were the luckiest guys alive, outside of my ore er serve 1p. a vance of Christmas~ say on No-Levine, the Israclitie Icarus. vemhcr 26, nor have I any objection to Notre Dame's · There followed Northwcstcrn and Illinois. Illinois, having the 675 points, one for each plaver on the squad. You know how it is, Santa. · .
I felt reasonably sure, won, but to my dismay, it was · brought home to me that Northwestern really should Yours very truly, ha,·e taken the game, thought I have forgotten since, 'VAnREN BnowN, just why. · Chicago IIerald and E.vamiuer. 
1\lv next adventure was that between Ohio State and 
P: S: =----:-Bill Brown would like a little hClp from 
Chicago. ·Ohio State, according to the best dnforhwtion 
·YOU· m findmg out what m:tkes ·the family's radio rro I had,.at the time, won. But in the cour~c of the· ·next and so far I have resisted his line.' plunges· su~ccssfuilv: 
few· days following the game, I learned that Chicngo 
Pete Brown would like n COUJlle of lower teeth to mat~h had done all the elevcr playing, ancl some of the . f ' 
a pair o uppers in the middle of the cnr. And please thinking. give Notre D:unc n new stadium. ,V, B. 
I 
' I 
I 
I 
T I 
I 

-I 
I 
Football CJ{eYiew of 1927 
A ·Day in Footballville 
B,lf J IliDIY ConconAN 
Of the Chicago Evening American. 
Not so long ago they were telling us that this business of flying across the ocean in anything from a boiler to a concrete mixer was a "dangerous occupation." 
w·ell, we have one that skins ocean-skimming by a mile. It's an assignment to survey a Notre Dame foot­ball team "in-the-making." 
Following our annual custom we visited the old campus yesterday. We wanted to find out what Knute Rockne would have this season-if anything. Well, we accomplished our purpose, but we had to crash through 600 football players, ranging in weight from 100 to 250 pounds, to do it. And we found that Rockne had a plenty. This, at least, is ·the message that we wish to convey to the world. 
For the guidance of those who will follow in our footsteps, we have suggested to Rockne that he place a sign outside the gates of the campus. It will read: "Danger-Men at work." That's. the kind of warning you see around a stone quarry when the boys are going to dynamite .a few acres of ground. Our suggestio·n may make the world safer for football reviewers. 
Seems to us that the only ories at Notre Dame who don't play football. are the ladies in the infirmary..All others from .the skinniest kid in the freshman class to those haughty seniors, are rigged out in some kind of grid upholstery. 
They're Students, Too 
Do not get the impression that they do nothing else at Notre Dame but play football. This would be a gross error. For confirmation of the educational standards of the institution consult the report of .the Carnegie Foundation committee. But it really seems that after the 3 o'clock whistle blows every one round the place hops into a football suit. 
As you enter the campus there. are football players, or fellows dressed up as such, to the left of you, to the right of you, behind you and in fact under you. Foot­balls are flying through the air like ducks over a marsh. Brawny lads are missing your chin at every step by inches as they boot the balls. Some one aims for a tackle and knocks you for a goal. 
In fact, you have to be a ballet dancer to keep your feet. There are hall teams, freshmen teams, teams from every class, rag-bag teams, and just teams. But that isn't the half of it. You haven't arrived at Cartier Field, yet, and that's where the FOOTBALL players are sup-· posed to be. · 
Inside the gate you run into the eleventh varsity team. And the eleventh varsity team has just side-swiped the sixth varsity eleven as it carried out a signal. The fourth team is catching h-ll from Coach L. Hartley Anderson, who is otherwise known as Hunk-the man who breaks cobblestones over his knee. 
Nothing But Teams 
The third team is over near the grand stand. The seventh team is standing by for a gargle of water. Teams, teanis, teams. Enough to fill up the Pacific Coast Con­ference. 
And the first team. ·where is it? Discovered. It's way down near the fence practicing the hop, skip and jump or something. At least the boys are working on one of Mr. Rockne's latest wrinkles. 
And then. if you have done road work for a week or two before you may be able to follow the 1927 edition of the horsemen around the place for an hour or more. 
"Things look bad, very bad," says Mr. Rockne, his voice cracking. "'Vorse than any time since I came here. You see, I lost fifteen men last year. I believe that I will · be able to get a team together but, of course, we will lose a majority of our games." 
Tale of Woe 
Rock groans and groans and groans some more. Bv this time you have rolled out your kerchief to catch the tears. 
"Boeringer, my All-American center, is gone," Rockne sniffs. "Parisien, my frog quarterback, is gone. Oh, how that boy could throw touchdowns. Red Smith is gone. So is Mayer. And Joe Boland. Edwards and McNally,· my two qu·arterbacks. They're gone·. So is Red Reardon and Harry O'Boyle and McManmon. All regulars. And just see what I have before me." 
·well, what Mr. Rockne had before him was nothing to go out and commit suicide over. 
There was Christy Flanagan, one of the fleetest backs in the game, at right half, with Johnny Niemiec practically his equal, standing by. There was "Bucky'; Dahman at left half and "'Vhitey" Collins at full. Collins is the boy who took one run at the Minnesota line last season and curled up for the season with a broken jaw. 
Riley at Quarter 
At quarter was Charley Riley, one of the smartest· signal snappers since the days of Harry Stuhldreher. He loafs the hundred in something under 10 flat. At the ends were Voedisch, a 1926 regular, and Chile ·walsh, a brother of the famous Adam, now coaching at Santa Clara College. 
John Smith, the captain and a veteran, squatted at left· guard, with Law at the other guard position. Fred Miller and Poliski g.raced the tackles. Mr. Poliski weighs only 200 pounds. All muscle. No bone. Tim Moynihan, with 190 pounds of solid beef, was at center. 
To us it looked like a rather formidable· football team. "Things are ·so gloomy around here," Rockne relates, "that we have adopted a black cat for a mascot. This is ·a Kilkenny· cat-direct from Ireland. We are through with dogs as mascots. One of the dogs died from hu-. miliation. He was run over by a flivver with a Ne­braska license." 
If you know the relations between Notre Dame and Nebraska you will get the point on this. 
On Lateral Pass 
"And what happened to the other. two dogs?" Rock asks himself. "'Veil, they ate meat on Friday and that was their finish.'~ ·; 
Yes, the cares of football are weighing heavily on King Knute. 
Of course, we hear this from Mr. Rockne at the start of every season. And somehow or other the team hap­pens to win a game or two. It will win a game or two this season and probably three. · 
It was suggested· to-:Rock that he might clean up the whole schedule. . ·. ~: · ··. · 
"If we do I'll pacldl~· ~cross the ocean with riothin(J' under me but a football/' was his jovial ren1ark. 
b 
~ 
i•l. 
I 1 
\ I 
il
lj Football CJ{eview of 1927 
!I ii 
Rockne "Takes Out" The Navy 
By GEORGE TREVOR 
Of the New Y or/, Sun. 
"Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note," as the its collective will upon Navy. Scoring was deferred until midnight blue column of midshipmen-please don't call the second half, however. The regulars· needed time to them middies-tramped sullenly out of Baltimore's shal­warm to their work. low concrete platter last Saturday evening. They had The break of the game-a break forced by Hoosier looked upon a spectacle which, however satisfying it aggressiveness-came out of a serene sky early in the might have been to connoisseurs of the gridiron art, was third period. Lanky Lloyd, who reminds the writer of 
not calculated to thrill Navy hearts. The downcast mid­Lefty Flynn, Yale's gawky fullback of 1912-13, hesitated shipmen wore faces as long as their somber greatcoats­a fraction of a second in getting of a punt from his own the blue-black drabness of which was relieved by rows 40-yard line. Fredericks, agile Notre Dame pivot, was of perky little brass bellboy buttons. They were coming on Lloyd's kicking foot in a flash. The'ball rebounded off 
from the funeral of "Navy Bill" Ingram's versatile, sharp Frederick's chest and rolled backward almost to Navy'shitting team. They had seen that team, the pride of 10-yard line. Three green wraiths pursued the boundingtheir-hearts-slaughtered to make another Notre Dame pigskin. Chile '\Valsh, brother of the Homeric Adam 
holiday. · Walsh, in the lead. Barely slackening his stride, Walsh 
. The melancholy obsequies were efficiently conducted grabbed up the leather in· the best Sam White manner. 
by Funeral Director Knute Rockne and his troop of un-. Simultaneously his nearest colleagues turned to cut down 
dertakers, a gang as ruthless in tracking down its victims Navy tacklers. Heady work-cooperation for the good as the assassins of ancient Persia. Interference did it­of the team. \Valsh cut in toward the goal posts and interference that licked up everything in its path as fairly clawed his ,\ray over the final stripe. The score 
greedily as a forest fire. "Knock 'em down!" was the was tied. · 
Hoosier slogan. It was beautiful to watch that screenlike 
The Green Gadfly
interference form in the twinkling of an eye to· shield the Notre Dame carrier. A mobile hedge of emerald Christy Flanagan,. the Green Gadfly, was chiefly in-. green shut the clawing Navy ·tacklers away from the strumental in bringing about the second Notre Dame Hoosier runner. touchdown, which came after a sustained march of 70 
yards. The "punchplay" was Flanagan's 25-yard cutbackRockne's interferers hurled their bodies across the to on
knees of their opponents with a reckless disregard of through tackle, a twin the brilliant long gainer personal safety that savored of the fanaticism of the which he was shaken loose for the winning touchdown Mahdi's dervishes at Omdurman. There was something 
against Army last year. Flanagan, a lad with shimmying reminiscent of the whirling dervish technic in Rockne's 
hips, was actually in the clear ·on this spine-tingling "barrel-roll interference"..;_a method of spinning into a 
play, with two interferers to protect him and no Navy would-be tackler that effectively takes his mind off the man between him and the distant goal. Every Hoosier 
play even -if it does not always take him off his feet. had carried out his assignment to the letter, but gritty 
Navy defenders were cut down as fast as they appeared Schuber of Navy was not to be denied. Coming at Flana­
in the snaky paths of Flanagan, Neimiec, Dahman, Che­gan from the flank, Schuber risked a broken neck with vigny, Riley and ·wynne. Less gifted carriers could have a devil-may-care dive which carried him under Dahman's made their distance behind such blanketing interference. body. Schuber's ~arms pinned Flanagan's legs. All three 
It takes patience as well as genius to drill m'en until crashed in a jumbled heap. It was a nervy, reckless play, they are letter perfect in "taking out." Rockne has the worthy of the Navy's chance-taking tradition-the sort patience-the infinite capacity for taking pains. His lirie of coldly-calculated bravado that caused Farragut to ex­and backs coordinated with robot-like precision. How claim "Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!" pretty it was to see those rugged, nimble forwards crouch But Flanagan crushed to earth, will .rise again more for the spring. Presto, the quarterback barked out his surely than truth. On the next lineup the red-headed, 
-signals, disdaining the rhythm-checking huddle. Zip! freckle-faced, sharp-featured Indiana boy galloped madly The backs would execute a goose-step maneuver with a around Navy's left end where the redoubtable Tod Sloane Prussian swagger, swinging their feet like ·wooden mar­had been neatly boxed by three green-jersied furies. ionettes jerked by a single string. Bing! Those catapultic Another 25 yards Flanagan stepped off, putting the ball 
forwards would open an inviting hole. Three emerald on Navy's 10-yard line. Aptly is he called-"on again, jersies would shoot through that gap ahead of the hip­off again, gone again, Flanagan." The scoring play was shifting, torso-twirljng carrier. As fast as were Rockne's a hidden ball trick, a variation of the moth-eaten criss­·carriers, the interferers were just as fast._-They didn't cross. Moret, Army's right end, was sucked in. Reilly slow up the man with the ball. Notre Dame's long gain swirled around the open flank for the touchdown that plays are made possible by the greased-lightning tempo put:Notre Dame on top to stay. Please note that Notre 
at which they are run off. The defense hasn't time Dame didn't try to bull its way through the center of the to get .set. enemy ·line as certain Eastern teams, in a similar ex­After the first half it seemed that Rockne was due igency, invariably attempt to do. to be pilloried by the second guessers-that he was to 
Versatile Niemiec
be the butt of barbed shafts aimed by the South Bend board of strategy, which consists, according to Knute . John Niemiec, a more versatile and perhaps a more himself of ·two barbers, two taxi drivers and a corset valuable back than the showy Flanagan, scored the final salesman. Rock, you see, had committed the ·unpardon­Notre Dame touchdown. A deceptive delayed pass, able strategic blunder· of starting his second-string re­thrown diagonally by Niemiec to Walsh, who waited for serves against the Navy regulars. Navy's A team retali­what seemed like an age before crossing over to his pre­ated for this impertinence by getting the jump on Notre determined station, caught Navy's secondaries going the Dame's subs and rushing over a touchdown before the wrong way. They were chasing will-o'-the-wisps off to game was five minutes old. their left, when Walsh suddenly bobbed up in the un­
Rockne bit his lips nervously as Navy went over. guarded zone. The touchdown came four plays later. He jerked his thumb toward Capt. John Smith-no re­Again it was a wide sweep from a position close to the _ lation to the chap who discovered Pocahontas. Capt. goal. Niemiec's individual prowess was responsible for Smith took his cue. Instantaneously the Notre Dame the score, the blocky Notre Dame back throwing off three regulars yanked off their blue outer sweaters and. like a Navy tacklers on his trip over the line. He twisted and horde of green Gila monsters darted onto the field. From slithered out of their grasp, like the conger eel of which that moment on Notre Dame held the initiative, imposed Kipling sang. Niemiec can punt, pass and plunge. 

[ 42 ]· 
i I 
! ' 
I 
I 
Office Residence 
Main 0887 
Main 3561 If No One Answers Call Main 0482 
Dr. John A. Stoeckley 
Dental Surgeon 
511 J. M. S. BuiLDING SouTH BEND, INDIANA 
"Rock" makes Notre Dame football teams ...... 
Kuppenheimer makes clothes that suit college men. 
Neither can be Excelled! 
LIVINGSTON'S 
-tlze House of Kuppenheinzei· Good Clotlzes 
$35.00 
. $50.00 

EDWARDS IRON WORKS 
Structural Steel and Iro~ 
Trusses, Beams, Lintels, Reinforcing Rods, 'Fire Escapes, Grills, Tanl•s and Cranes 
Monorail Systems, Acetylene· TVelding and Cutting, and _Miscellaneous Steel TVorl• 
PHONE LINCOLN 7417 
2025 SOUTH, M!\.IN ST~~;ET ·. SouTH BEND, I~DIA~A,' U.-S. ·; A~ , 
McCLAVE 
PRINTING. CO. 
Publications and Catalogs 

435 :e:AST LaSALLE AVENUE Phone Lincoln 1570 
[ 43] 
:\ 
I 
l 
CoMPLIMENTS oF 
. 
SMITH'S CAFETERIA 
. 111 E. JEFEERSON BOULEY ARD . THE SHERLAND BUILDING 

'I 
"The Place That Makes You Glad. You're Hungry" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
THE 
OLIVER 
300 -J\OOIIIS -30~ 
For the Last Twenty-five Years has Been the He_adquarters for Notre Dmize Stu­dents and Th~ir Farnilies. 
SAFETY COURTESY 
Genuine Metered· Yellow Cab Ser­vice to and from the Field. ~ ~ 
Yellow Cab Co. 
PHONE MAIN 5200 
Yellow Cab Station and Agents on the Grounds at Notre Dame Post Office 

"Don't Let Your Sweetie Get Cold Feet" 
·steve Says: 
Make her com/or· table at the Foot·. hall Game for the first time in her life 
It:s just what the name implies 
SNUGGLE RUG 
(For !{ale hrj all the leading dealers) 
:·1.·, .. 
Stephenson Un~~~i~ear Mills 
SOU'TH BEND . INDIANA 
[ 44·] 
I . 
i 
i 
; 
i 
II~ . 
t 
I 
I 

.Spalding 
Sweaters 
for Fall 
Weather 
6WARM, good looking and long wearing, these sweaters have that air of sportsmanlike smart­ness that everyone likes. Just the thing to slip ·0n · these snappy fall ·days.· A fine all-round sweater 
that will wear like iron. 
All Styles ,.,.~ All Colors 
~~~~ 
211 SOUTH STATE STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
I 
l . 
i 
I 
GJ{·ERE ·were produced the Chairs and Tab­les for theNotre Dame DINING HALL. 
The finest college dining hall and equipment 1n America. 
Phoenix Chair Company 
SHEBOYGAN, WISCON·SIN 
[~m~~W:':w., -· ~~.;.:,$~~~~~-lj~ ~~,_gf4~~~ 
.:···'fw: Jro'Mi~?;,,·E -~-0ENIX:.i:HAlR COMPANY _,_ ..:· 
"..• ..,.;.......;..,;;.~·~·~·~···•-..•~·-·~''""'"~· -..~.. ·L.,-:.,.. ·~'<·~:~).,s-.:.:.~ ....f~~~-~~~N .. ~~:~~·, _.._,.:. ·-~·'~-A~·_.,...._..,;...,._~-~-:.--~·~·...:....-...~.-. ..._.__;,~~-.,...~--~... !-. ' 
u Largest Chair:Factory]in~the.:~World~Under:One Roof" := 
"~-···--. 
. [ •15] 
.. 
f<,_ 
. ......~---·-..----""·--~-......__ -~· . 
Polar Ice 
=============~~~~============= 
The only dependable means of insuring wholesome food for the. family. Depend . on Polar Ice in Fall and Winter rather than the changeable 'Yeather. 
=============.~~~.============= 
POLAR ARTIFICIAL ICE 
PHONE MAIN 4800 
. . . .. . .. 
·."When ·Notre Dame Goes marching· down the, field'' 
Just watch the jaunty. j.erseys the] players wear. All ·are manufac­
[ tured and. guaranteed by · 

D. C. O'SHEA, Pr.es. W. C. KING, Sec'y. J. B. O'SHEA, Vice-Pres. MAKERS OF 
Athletic Knitted Wear for Every Sport 
.. 
2414 NoRTH SAcRAMENTO AvENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
PHONE ALBANY 5011 
[ 46J 

I 
I 
I
t 
I 
I: 
I 
l 
r I 
i 
i 

SELECT the PALMER HOUSE 
for ztnusual conveniences and_ comforts 

\VALTER L. GREGORY 
Mana,gtr 
BRO.\DCASTJNG I'ROM STATION WJJD 
· liF You WANT to conserve yorir time ~n Chicago-and obtain the utmost com­fort during your visit-the Palmer House excells as a place of residence. 
Centrally located-affording the con­venience of being "next door," in fact, to the City's principal attractions <tnd places of business with the added attrac­tion ofample parkingfacilities and hotel garage service. Unusually comfortable­
~ 
offering, among many 
I. distinct advantages, q11iet and commodious rooms, delightful 
·floor reception rooms for guests and their callers, large library, fashionable arcade shops, five restaurants, a woman's floor, handsome beauty salon, children's play ground, complete hospital and staff. 
Rooms for one, $4 to $1D-for .two, 
$7 to $12. Suites (two to five rooms) 
per room, $9 to $11-with reductions for monthly. or sea­sonal occupancy. · 
VrsiT THE FAMous SnoPs AND STORES IN THE PALMER HousE [ •1<7] 
1'1t., 
I 
'I 
I J dge
I 
S'IUDEBJIKER:S 
ERSKINE 

1. By vvhat it does 
·Allaroundthegreatworld,theunequalled ·performance of Studebaker's Erskine is winning ne\v records-and· thousands 
of happy ne\V owners. · 
APRIL 16. Lo11don to Land's End Reliability RutJ-Erskine Six sedan won highest gold medal award in 317.5 mile competition under super­vision of Royal Automobile Club. 
JUNE 4. LondotJ-EditJburgh R eliabi/ity Run­Erskine Six sedan won highest gold medal award in 415.75 mile competition supervised by the Royal Automobile Club. 
JUNE 14. Spanish Performance Test-Three Erskine Six tourers won gold medals in the maximum classifications of a competition held in Barcelona under supervision of Royal Auto­mobile Club of Cataluna.· Distance covered, 437 miles. 
JUNE 22. Bue11os Aires-Erskine Six sedan captured the Argentine endurance run after running continuously for 5 days, 5 nights and three hours. 1548 miles were covered. Super­vised by Santa Fe Automobile Club. 
JULY 20. SatJta Fe to Bt~enos Aires-Erskine Six sedan set new speed record for 347.5 mile distance between Santa Fe and Buenos Aires­under supervision ofSanta Fe Automobile Club. 
JULY 24. Hamburg Driving Tour11ame11t­Erskine Six: tourer only car to successfully com­plete all 12 trials to determine speed and flex­ibility of cars participating. 
Won first place from field of23 competitors. Tournament supervised by Allgemeine Deutsche Automobil-Club and 

NEW LOW PRICES 
Automobile Club von Deutsch-Custom Sedan • • $965land. . 
Sport Coupe, for 4 • · 96$
AUGUST 14. Sierra MouiJ­
Coupe, for 2 . • • • 89$
tain Rtm-Erskine Six sedan 
Sport Roadster, for 4 96$completed gruelling run of401 Tourer •. • • • • 91$
miles over five highest Sierra mountain summits in elapsed 
All prices f. o. b. factory, includ­ing front and rear bumpers, 4­
time of 17 hours and 39 min­
\vheel brakes, coincidental lock,
utes. Every conceivable type of 
hydrostatic gasoline gauge, !!tC.
road was encountered. 
2. By "What o~ners say 
Ask the owner of any Erskine Six \vhat he thinks ofit•.His replywill do more to convince you of the unusual value built into every Erskine SLx by Studebake.r than anyamount ofsales talk. Here are the comments of a few Erskine owners: 
Hight There With Speed 
"The Erskine Six is sure right there with speed and endurance. I think it is great and I don't believe it can be beat for the price. Believe me, it is just 0. K."-Mrs. C. T., Pleasantville, N.J. 
Unsurpassed 
"We are delighted with our Erskine in both per­formance and looks. It is unsurpassed in the light car field and much handsomer in ever.y way than we expected.". 
C. H. A., Milford, Delaware 
Couldn't Be Improved 
"The Erskine Six is the best car I have ever driven. I don't see where any improvements could be made. It does everything you claim, and drives and steers beyond allmy expectations. The comfort of the car is beyond all question. We think it is beautiful and the finest small car on the market."-C. H. A., Milford, Delaware 
No Repair Expense 
"I have driven my Erskine about 4300 miles to 
date. I have had no repair ex­pense whatever and have con­tinually averaged 28 miles to the gallon of gasoline." 
W. H.-B., Sharon, Pa. 
Quick Pichup 
"It is'the car you love to drive'. I have owned several cars and I just told my wife the other day that this is the only satisfactory car I have ever owned. It will go where I want to go and is al­ways quick on the pick-up." 
E. F. P., Dallas,Texas 
Now judge the Erskine Six for yourself-by what it will do with you at the wheel. See for yourself ho\v Studebaker has designed and built into this small, fine car all the character and quality gained from 75 years ofhonest manufacture_:_at a new low price made possible only by Studebaker's $104,000,000 of manufacturing facilities. Come in today! 
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA 
Retail Factory Branch and Station Lafayette and South Streets, South Bend, Indiana 

"'cCLAVE PfliNTING CO., SOUTH BEND 
:! \ l..­
=--­









