— Cbc —
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCeQVASI-SemPeiZ-VlCTVRVS- •ViVG^VASl-CRAS-MORlTVRVS*
Vol. XXXVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 1, 1905.	No. 25.
MR. THOMAS B. FITZPATRICK, Laetare Medallist, 1905.
39«
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
New Life.
^^HEN the winter time is over And violets bloom in the dell, And the kine go deep in the clover, Love-songs the bluebirds tell.
When the light of the moon is beaming Far over the rippling lakes,
0 with joy are our light hearts teeming As the spirit of spring awakes.
J- J- F.
The Lastare Medallist of 1905.
HUS far in the history of the Tartare Medal—Notre Dame’s supreme distinction annually conferred upon a conspicuous member of the Catholic laity in America—recipients of the
honor have stood for eminence in some
specific field of literature, science or art, or for notable achievement in the sphere of broad philanthropic effort. Without at all lowering the standard of excellence originally fixed as the minimum upon which she would set the seal of her highest approval, our Universitv turns this year to a field of human activity hitherto neglected in the bestowal of her Mid-Lenten tribute, and chooses her medallist from the commercial world. Any one of the larger softs of legitimate and honorable business is unquestionably, in our day, a vocation offering ample scope for the most varied intellectual powers, furnishing a splendid test of the righteousness that is based on religious motives, and exercising a widespread influence, beneficent or otherwise, throughout the community in which its functions are performed. Among hundreds of notable Catholics engaged in business in these United States, Notre Dame takes especial pleasure in signalizing one whose name is synonymous with spotless integrity, unblemished honor, and the highest sense of religious duty; a Catholic whose influence is uniformly exerted for the uplifting of younger neighbors and the betterment of his fellow-citizens generally; a benefactor whose hidden charities are largely in excess of what is credited to his public generosity;
a faithfully consistent son of the Church and a zealous promoter of every religious work; an illustrious representative, in short, of all that is worthiest in the ideal Catholic business man,—Thomas B. Fitzpatrick of Boston.	.
Mr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, New England’s leading Catholic merchant, is the senior member of the firm of Brown, Durrell & Co. of Boston and New York, the largest wholesale dry goods house of its kind east of Chicago. He was born in the smalltown of Grafton, Massachusetts, Dec. 17, 1844. His early years were spent on his father’s farm near Hopkinton. Many a morning the stars were still visible when our future merchant accompanied his father and older brother into the field, where they spent the day digging out stumps or cultivating the soil. It was also a practice of the industrious youth to collect berries from his neighbors and travel by night with his wagon load to the Boston market, a distance of some forty miles. This was the-school of industry that prepared him for success in after life. His education was begun in the district school and finished in the village high, school of Hopkinton. He made the most of his opportunities, and was graduated with distinction—the first Catholic boy to receive a diploma from the high school of Hopkinton. His proficiency in English composition secured him the honor of valedictorian of his class.
At eighteen, young Fitzpatrick came to Boston, where he began his apprenticeship in the dry goods business. We are told that he started on the lowest round of the ladder, and worked at first for two dollars a week. The acquaintance which he formed with another boy of his own age, Oliver H. Durrell, grew into a strong friendship. During their spare moments, and on their way to and from the store, they talked of their plans for the future. Both* young men advanced rapidly. In 1865, Mr. Fitzpatrick accepted a position as a travelling salesman for the Mason, Tucker & Co. Wholesale Fancy Goods. He worked for this firm seven years, confining his travels to New England territory. After the great Boston fire of 1872 the old firm of Brown, Button & Co. was re-established under the name of Brown, Durrell & Co., with Mr. Fitzpatrick as a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
third member. He held an equal interest with his two partners. Fortune smiled on the new concern, and it soon won its way in Boston business circles as one of the foremost houses in the dry goods line. These three gentlemen started into business with small capital, but with great ability and persistent application. Temperance, integrity and industry alwavs win in commercial life; and the members of the new firm, notably the subject of this sketch, possessed these qualities in an eminent' degree.
To-day Mr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick is one of Boston’s most prominent Catholics and best known business men. His zeal for religion, his thorough knowledge of affairs, his administrative ability, his untiring energy, and the facilities afforded him by wealth and position, enable him to achieve untold good for his fellow-men. His name has of late years been identified with all the great Catholic philanthropic movements in Boston. He was largely responsible for the establishment of the Working Girls’ Home on Union Park St., in charge of the Gray Nuns. He is a director and one of the. chief supporters of the Working Boys’ Home. He gave the site and most of the funds for the Boston Cottage at the Catholic Summer School, Plattsburg, N. Y. As president of the Boston Catholic Union, the most prominent Catholic social organization of the city, he was instrumental in providing a stately building for that society. He has long been one of the main props of St. Mary’s Infant Asylum. He contributed generously to. the Catholic University, Washington, D. C., and was the originator of. the proposal to secure one hundred annual contributors to that institution. For a number of years he was treasurer of the Irish League. His support of the Irish Constitutional struggle for over twenty years is well known. In labor, time, and money his contributions to that cause have been estimated at many thousands of dollars.
The particular esteem and universal recognition which the Laetare Medallist of 1905 enjoys among his fellow-citizens may be gleaned from the fact that at the banquet on the occasion of Archbishop Williams’ Golden Jubilee, attended by Cardinal Gibbons and Archbishop Satolli, Mr. Fitzpatrick was chosen to deliver the address of the Catholic laity.	*
He was one of the founders of the Newton . Co-operative Bank, of -which he is now vice-president. He is also president of the Union Institution for * Saving in Boston. , The good he has effected by his work in these co-operative banks is incalculable.; His efforts along this line have made, many . poor families the owners of comfortable. homes which otherwise they would never -have possessed.
Every public issue bearing on the good of the community receives Mr. Fitzpatrick’s careful consideration and hearty co-operation; but perhaps the greatest work of his life has been, and continues to be, the active ‘ part he takes in promoting the welfare of young men. He has always shown a • deep interest in this portion of the commonwealth, particularly, as is natural, in, . those of his own race and creed. He is assiduous in procuring suitable positions for them and lecturing to them in Catholic associations on some such subject as. “Business as a Vocation.” He has spared neither money nor energy to better the condition of young men and to give them a start in life. He knows from experience the royal road to success in business. He knows, furthermore, that, if woman is the heart, man is the head,—the pilot appointed by God himself to guide the family barque of society; hence his special interest in the young man. There are in Boston to-day scores of successful business men who owe both their first step and much of their subsequent progress in life to the positive assistance and unfailing encouragement and advice of Mr. Fitzpatrick.	-
The justness of his views as to what constitutes real success in the commercial world . and the: high sense of responsibility which he deems it congruous for every business man, in the larger sense of that word, to entertain, are well set forth in the following quotation from an excellent paper contributed by Mr. Fitzpatrick to Donahoe's -Magazine a few years ago.	~
And first of all, what is business success, and by. what standard shall it be. measured ? Is it by the / amount of money a man makes, regardless of the principles and methods employed and the character of the man engaged in it? If it were, then the art of doing business could no longer claim an honorable place in -the. great pursuits, of life..	.	- --- • < -J
The business man . by the very, nature of his . calling .
400
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is necessarily an important factor in the composition of the community, and is accordingly as responsible to society for the influence he exerts in it as he is to his customers for courteous treatment and honest dealings. So general is his sphere and so broad the field of his operations, that he comes in personal contact, almost dailv, with individuals of all ages and stations, and it is reasonable to assume that the result of this contact must be healthy or otherwise. He buys, he sells, he measures, he weighs, he superintends storehouse and counting-room, insurance and banking, and it is his manner of doing these things, as well as the financial result of his services and investments, that determines whether he is a successful business man or not. First among these qualities (necessary for success in business) I would mention honesty, temperance, and industry.
If charitv in itself—the mere giving of alms—be a holv and wholesome thing, what shall we say of thoroughly well-regulated charity? Air. Fitzpatrick’s charity has always been thoroughly well regulated. To quote his own words: “Here let me say that I believe the sphere of true charity is often misunderstood. In the minds of many it consists simply in giving alms to the needy,. helping mendicants and the like. This is only one of its functions. It has a broader and grander meaning than could be expressed by even this worthy part. True charity means an unselfish service of man to man. Thus evety human being comes under its sway. It is a greater charity to show a man how to earn his living than to give him alms. Teach a man to be selfsupporting and he will be self-respecting.”
There is another phase of this great man’s work which should not be forgotten,— the giving “in secret.” For while some estimate his charitable and philanthropic contributions approximately at one hundred thousand dollars, “ The. Story of the Irish in Boston” remarks: “The many charitable, generous and kindly deeds of Mr. Fitzpatrick will' never be known.” He is verily a living example of industry, honesty, integrity and success in the world of commerce, a true patriot, a fervent Catholic, a perfect Christian gentleman. His motto is: to influence a just and economical use of greater resources for the benefit and happiness of the many. .
Such a man is Mr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, the Lsetare Medallist of 1905; such is the solid foundation of charity upon which he has constructed for himself “a house not built with hands, everlasting in the heavens.”
Pope Leo XIII.
JAMES], CORBETT.*
When the world was pagan, great men were looked upon as gods. After their death temples were raised in their honor, and sacrifices were offered up to them. This admiration for genius and reverence for virtue is not limited to pagans, it is inborn in every human heart. Christianity, which has but purified this veneration, teaches that Christ was a person of flesh and blood like ourselves, and that among men the noblest personalities are nearest akin to this allperfect Man. In every human creature there is much beauty, goodness and power—the image and likeness of the Deity—and this is why all are stirred by brave deeds and charmed by lofty characters; but only in the great does this spark of the Divinity shine forth. We look upon noble men with boundless interest and undying admiration, because we see expressed in them what lies hid within ourselves. Every nation has its heroes, but I am not going to tell you of the great men of any one people. There is a small band, a galaxy of the few greatest, the exemplars for every nation and for every age, the inspirers and guides of all, a few around whom each generation gathers for its own enlightenment and ennoblement; and among these immortals indebted humanity places Pope Leo XIII.	.
I do not praise him because he was the high priest of our faith. The highest praise given him has come from those without. At his death n on-Catholics and even nonChristians, forgetting the high position he had held in the Church, which many of them opposed and hated, and thinking only of his remarkable genius and of his lofty personality, united with Catholics in mourning over his bier and in calling him Leo the Great. The unbelieving Castelar has declared that the nineteenth century ~ has produced only two great meh—Napoleon Bonaparte and Leo XIII.; and Spuller, ex-minister of the French cabinet, has well said: “To enemies and friends, Leo XIII.
* Through mistake in last week’s issue the authorship of “The Power* of the Papacy’’ was. credited, to Mr. Corbett, whereas it is the work-of John E. McGinn..
NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
stands on the pinnacle of human greatness.”
The ninety-three years which show the life period of Vincent Joachim Pecci are full of wondrous beauty; but it is my purpose to consider chiefly the twenty-five glorious years of his pontificate. The first eight years of his boyhood were spent among the romantic hills of Carpineto, under the fair sky of Italy. Early he received the best education the age afforded, and finished his university studies with the highest honors, far excelling his brilliant companions. If his talents were remarkable, his virtue was heroic; for when the cholera swept across Rome, this nobly-born youth devoted his time, his labors, and even exposed his life in caring for the victims. After his ordination to the priesthood he was sent as delegate to the papal province of Benevento, which was overrun by brigands, and within fifteen months he purged the district of lawlessness. The feat was so striking that the king of .Naples sent him congratulations; and when it was reported that Monsignor Pecci was fatally sick, the people, who rightly looked upon him as their liberator, marched bareheaded and barefooted through the town supplicating heaven- for his recovery. Gregory’ XVI. sent him to Perugia, where the people were torn by civil strife, and within -five months he brought order out of chaos. It would be interesting to follow him in. his visit to London, and during the three' years he spent in Belgium as Nuncio. Step by step he rose in religious dignities, until finally he reached the summit of the lofty mountain—the Chair of St. Peter.
His work during .this period falls naturally under three divisions. We see him first, a Bather to all men and a lover of human kind; secondly, the Scholar of a great scholastic era; thirdly, a Statesman. We know how great his love was for all men. This was clearly shown in. his efforts to promote Christian unity. Through his labors all the churches, have been drawn, closer together.
But apart from religion, there is not a people that have not. received from him tokens of love. Let me give but one instance: When from St. Petersburg there came forth the Catholic. University
an edict expelling the Jews from sections of Russia, Leo. made. an appeal to .the czar, saying that he would regard any leniency shown them as a personal favor to himself
. 401
and a service to humanity. Although up to that , time the Russian government had rejected all petitions in behalf of the Israelites, at Leo’s appeal the; persecution ceased.	.
The grand Rabbi of Germany, called “ the Pope of the Hebrews,” sent to Leo an ancient Bible ornamented with costly gems as a token of the esteem and love which Jews all over the world felt for His Holiness. To his enemies he was the good Samaritan. After the battle of Adowa, Menelik captured several thousand Italian soldiers, and despite the protests of King Humbert, they were about to be reduced to slavery. The powers refused to interfere. Leo used his personal influence and they were freed. Cardinal Lavigerie was intrusted to bring about the liberation of the African blacks. How well he succeeded! The burning letters which Leo kept sending him had filled him with-zeal to accomplishit. In Brazil five millions of human beings were in slavery. Leo lifted up his mighty voice and they became free. You praise Lincoln and call him great because he was instrumental in the emancipation of four million slaves. Far be it from me to lessen honor and esteem for .him! But Leo, directly and indirectly, has . freed seven millions of human beings, and that without having shed a drop of blood, and without leaving behind any vexing race problem. .	. - -
Many love to : study him in his poems, from the one he wrote as a boy of twelve to that one which he dictated shortly before his death. Others seem never to tire extolling his epoch-making encyclicals, which, for their elegance, purity of style and profundity of thought have so attracted men. Some think that mankind is most indebted to him for his great apostolate of education within the Church: How strenuously he labored to instill into the hierarchy his enthusiasm for higher education! He is great who founds a university, a fountain-head of life, where men mav drink of wisdom and be filled. Let us. do homage to Leo, the founder of three universities—Freiburg, Ottawa and of. America. At
Louvain he created the school of scientific philosophy, and in the Vatican he fitted up. one of the largest and best-equipped observatories. Leo stood for progress. The
402
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
desire for truth was the great passion of his life; and actuated solely by this motive he threw open to the scholars of the world the secret archives of the Vatican. Those priceless treasures that had there been piled up and hidden away during the past centuries, he placed at the disposal of the world of learning. He has done every thing to render less difficult historical research, and a great historian has said: “Through Leo’s initiative history will now be rewritten.”
The nineteenth century has gone down in historv as the age of great statecraft. Towering above all the statesmen of that century stands Leo XIII. Before his accession to the pontificate, the Papacy had passed through one of its greatest crises. History tells us that during the closing years of the reign'of the illustrious Pius IX., the Papacy seemed to be nearing its destruction. The anti-Christian societies, which had united and combined their forces, made a mightv effort to sweep Catholicism off the face of the earth: and so well planned was the attempt that the very foundations of the Church seemed to have been shaken. Her enemies proclaimed her downfall: “The Papacy is destroyed! The Church is dead!” The Piedmontese vandals despoiled Pius IX. of his temporal power. The prisoner of the Vatican could see from his window, floating over the Ouirinal, the hostile flag - of a throned power whose dominant note was hatred for him, whose dominant policy was the destruction of his Church. Through the influence of its godless statesmen, almost every nation was unfriendly. In Germany, in Russia and in Swizerland, Catholics were oppressed. To add to all this the Church was torn by schism. Germany had her Dollinger, France a Loyson, Italy a Curci and Switzerland her schismatic priests. In Germany Bismarck was making “every effort to destro}’ Catholicism, and the famous “May Laws,” - which proclaimed the supremacy of the state in matters of religion, were put in force. Large numbers of the clergy were shut up in prisons or banished. But what need to dwell on the sad effects of this cruel law?. When the storm was at its highest Pius IX. died, and men said: “There will never be another pope; ” but -the cardinals . met in catacomb-like secrecy and elected Cardinal Pecci, who had already attained
the venerable age of sixtv-eight. Immediatelv upon his accession he began by his masterful i diplomacy to open up friendly intercourse I with the nations; and through his unrivalled * tact Russia ceased her barbarous treatment | of the Catholics, and the Swiss persecution, | which had lasted fifteen years, was brought g to an end.	f
Leo’s greatest political achievement was f j his victory over Bismarck. I will not dwell I *	-	t
on Leo’s patience and tact: how he kept	|
on in his wise and skilful policy until	|
Bismarck’s “iron will” was broken and	I
the May Laws repealed. So kind was the	|
victor that he won also the love and con-	| -
fidence of all Germany, and even of Bismarck	|
himself. In the end the “Iron Chancellor”	f
was forced to admit that the May Laws	|-
were a blunder, and that the greatest living	|
statesman was Leo XIII.	f
A weighty dispute had been going on | between Germany and Spain about the Caroline Islands, and war was imminent. | But at Germany’s request Leo sat as ar bi- £ trator. His settlement of this quarrel is unique in history, for though the dispute j was one most difficult to decide, he solved J it with such remarkable fairness that never f has a word been heard against his judgment | either in Spain or Germany. So great was the admiration evoked by the august per-	I
sonality of Leo that the states of the world	|
vied with one another in paying him honor. | With the exception of the Shah of Persia and the kings of Italy, every great ruler •	|
has gone in person to the Vatican to offer f homage to Leo.	.	|
Such was the prodigious and manifold	£
genius of this truly great man. More	|
remarkable still will his achievements appear	?
when we consider that the seat of his exalted	(
mind was a body continually racked by	t
much physical pain. He slept hardly at all.	J
During the long years of his pontificate, the first four hours of each day were given to prayer—to communing with his God; and every midnight this venerable man looked i out from a window of the Vatican and I blessed, the sleeping city; and every day j from a still more exalted eminence he looked out upon the world and blessed the whole multitudinous family of men.
O Leo, how appropriate has been thy title—Lumen in CoAo! Thy light, which for
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4°3
ninety-three years shone with such great brilliancy has given forth a lustre which will forever remain undimmed. The pride and glory of our generation is no more. Upon his tombstone indebted humanity mav well write the words of the poet: “Here lies one ‘upon whom every god hath seemed to set his seal, to give to the world assurance of a man.’ ”	•	.
Leo has passed away, but his memory and .good deeds endure. At his grave the human race still stands hushed and awed— profoundest tribute to his moral grandeur.
The Elixir of Life.
RICHARD BARRY.
On the outskirts of the citv stood a house somewhat apart from the others. It was surrounded Iw an old board fence well covered with showy advertisements. At one end of this fence was a gate which groaned and squeaked as the wind swung it back and forth. The path that led to the front door was overgrown, with grass and the whole place was utterly desolate. But on entering one -would at once see that outward appearances were deceptive, for in the far end of the room could be seen an old man seated at a table in deep thought. His hair and beard were ragged and everything about him wore a look of untidiness and neglect. The tables and shelves of the room were studded with bottles and phials of every size and shape, and over all the dust lay an inch thick.
The old man was examining a liquid of some sort which was contained in a small phial. He carefully tasted some of the liquid and the effect was startling. His eyes seemed to recover some of the brightness of youth, his form seemed to grow more erect, and when he spoke his accents were no longer cracked arid broken but clear and melodious. Something seemed to have. possessed his soul, for he cried out in ecstacy:
“At last! At last I have discovered the secret! All the efforts that I have made during these long years are at last crowned with success, and my fame shall now resound all the world over. Not only will this discovery
bring me riches and fame, but it will bring back the golden days of youth to me and my beloved Emily. It was for her sake that I toiled on so earnestly, and now how glad. she will be and how happy I will make her when I restore to her cheeks the blush of girlhood.”
Having thus expressed himself the old man took another phial similar to the one which contained the much-valued potion, and measuring out one-half of the liquid poured it into the empty phial. He then tightly corked both bottles, and taking them with him hurried into an adjoining chamber where sat an old woman.. Her face was wrinkled and her hair was snowv white. She was bent forward, her right elbow resting on her knee, and her hand supporting her chin. She was rocking to and fro, all the time crooning some old song, entirely unconscious of the things about her, so that wheri the old man entered she seemed not to notice. He was flushed with excitement and his voice quavered as he shouted: .
“Emilv! Emilv! I have at last found that which will make us both young and happy and bring us wealth in abundance. Here in these phials is contained a potion which if we drink will bring us back over the long, weary years and leave us young and happy once again.”
But the old woman heeded him not; she still rocked to and fro and crooned away as if nothing had disturbed her. He pleaded with her but all to no purpose, and then in a final effort to arouse her attention he drank off the contents of one of the phials. A startling change immediately took place. The unkempt hair and beard fell from his head and face. His head was now covered with a thick shock of curls and the' warm blood of youth glowed on his cheek. . But there was also another change brought about. It was his utter forgetfulness of his life-long companion. She was now entirely forgotten, and the draught meant for her was now eagerly swallowed by hiriiself.	*
How well it fulfilled its purpose may well be imagined when the form of the robust youth was seen to grow smaller and smaller until at length it became a little mite. Its srhothered cries seemed -to keep tune with
4°4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the old woman’s crooning, and presently it crept from under the pile of clothing it. had but lately woi*n.
Thus it la^’ cooing and crowing at turns and the old woman constantly droning forth her senseless wailing when the landlord came to collect his monthly dues. He was much surprised at seeing these examples of the extremes of youth and age. He went immediately to inform the police of what he had seen.
Both the child and the old woman were taken to the county hospital. There the child was tended to by the nurses, but despite all efforts it grew smaller. The old woman too was fast losing consciousness, and one bright morning they both passed away, the child vanishing into a speck and the woman overcome with the burden of years. The elixir of life killed where it should have cured. •
Official Correspondence. •
Agoo, Union," Nov. 9, 1904. The Division Superintendent of Schools, San Fernando.
Dear Sir:	.	,
. For seeds I speak
Of giant teak	,	.
' And seek to make mj’ accents meek.
My box of loam
Is safe at home
And only waits the seeds to come.
In after-j-ears—	.
If it appears—	.
Convenient to my successeers—	. - .
.	Its relevant .	.
That, they should want
A pachydermic elephant ~
. To pile the teak .	,
We sow next week I
AVith much expression in technique.,
. .	Oh, send the. seeds.
.	And, like good deeds, ,	.	.
• We’ll cherish them and—kill the weeds. .
. ' \	' James D. Barry. . . . . . • .
' - <2	.	' '	’	'	~	'	*	■*	■
.	■—Philippine Teacher.
Note.—James Barry, the writer of the above, was a student of Notre Dame, being graduated with the degree of A; B. in 1897. He is now a supervising teacher in the Phil-lipine service, stationed at Agoo Union, and
achieving marked success in his. profession, for an instant bewildered, but quickly recover-
A Hare in the Balance.
JOHN M. RYAN, ’06.
Charles Edgren, the only son of a very wealthy banker, had been given by his father a large tract of land in the northern part of France. This land was not only fertile and rich but contained immense woods on both sides of the River Maine. Here Charles with several companions was accustomed to spend his vacations. The woods abounded in game of all description and the river was especially favorable for fishing. Every sport was open to the boys; and Charles in all but one surpassed his companions. He could dive from higher ground, out swim, run or jump all competitors. In fishing and riding he was unanimously accorded precedence. Hunting alone was his weak point. In this each and all without effort could defeat him. Although, he had the best of rifles and equal opportunities he had never been able to shoot either a squirrel or hare. He would practise for hours at a time and have the target distance almost perfect, but when he shot at either hare or squirrel with a fair chance of their escaping he invariably missed. This ill-success was a source of great amusement to his companions, and they often told him that the hare knew his footsteps and the squirrel recognized him a hundred yards away.
One vacation evening Edgren had become separated from his chums, and, empty handed as usual, was walking slowly homeward, when suddenly there came to his ears the terrified tones of a woman mingled with the noise of a barking dog. Edgren hastened toward the. spot from which the voice, proceeded, and on arriving at the road beheld a strange sight. A young lady was crouching against the fence crying in fear, while before her, jumping backward and forward, was a little dog barking and playing. The appearance of a new - comer immediately changed everything. The dog stopped his gambols to gaze an instant at Edgren and his rifle before he skipped quickly down the road' The young lady straightened up, her fears gone in an instant. Edgren struck by her exceeding beauty was
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing himself volunteered to accompany her. to her home, a favor which was most graciously accepted. This chance meeting, together with the fact that their fathers were old chums, made the young people friends, and soon put a different meaning to Edgren’s frequent trips to his country home.
■ Long before it was announced that Mamie Labriche and Edgren were engaged, his friends had made her acquainted with his skilful marksmanship, and she too teased him, asking him, in the presence of a large gathering for the first hare he would shoot, o	o
Mamie’s consent to marrv him caused a change in the careless disposition of Edgren. -The easy-going, pleasure-hunting young fellow of former days now suddenly appeared anxious to settle down. He urged and coaxed Mamie to hasten the marriage,, but she always had some good excuse for delaying it. One evening he was more pressing than usual, and received an answer that left him in a strange dilemma, for she told him unless he should bring her, within twenty-four hours, a hare killed by his own shot he must wait eight months to marry her. In vain Edgren begged, expostulated and raved. She declared that he deserved this punishment, and would only promise to . -marry at his date should he succeed. Edgren tried to drop the hare question entirely and set an earlier date; but even this she would not grant. If he did not bring the hare, whether he attempted to shoot it dr not, he must wait. Forced to accept a condition his own impatience had caused, Edgren soon hastened home to prepare for. a supreme effort. All night he tossed and planned while hoping and praying for success.
• Before daybreak he was up and had breakfast. Determined if possible to win an early bride he entered the woods with .the first light. In vain he stole upon the hares, for just as he was ready to shoot something always frightened them away. About nine o’clock a hare bounded high in the air after he shot, but when he arrived . where it was last seen there was no trace of it.
Swiftly the morning and afternoon wore away without a single bullet taking effect. With the sun just setting despair at . last conquered his will, and Edgren turned despondently homeward. But fate had not deserted him yet. Edgren had hardly gone one
hundred yards when he saw coming toward him a’ poacher carrying a live hare under his arm. With a bound all7 hope returned, and he hastened forward to hail the successful hunter. Joy, it is true, had conquered despondency, but. despair immediately vanquished joy. The poacher was an unsuccessful rival for Mamie’s hand and bitterly jealous of Edgren’s success.' Driven by necessity, however, Edgren asked to! buy the hare.
“Buy .it, for what?” asked the poacher. ■ “Do you think I’m trapping game to sell • to you so that you . may,-tell her you caught it? Not much. You can not buy this one.”.-
Edgren argued and begged, but it was of no avail. He offered double, treble, even ten times the value of the hare, but. always received the answer “No.” At last he grew o	. ,
desperate, and threatened to have it whether J the poacher was willing or not. This brought his rival to terms, for he was a coward at heart and feared Edgren might carry out his threat. He too was well aware of Edgren’s poor marksmanship, and he cunningly contrived a plan by which he was enabled to take advantage of it. > “I will give you the hare for five dollars, on one condition,” said he.	;	.
Eagerly. Edgren demanded what it was.
“You must take the hare and fasten it so that it can not escape’ Then stepping back ten paces* shoot it. If you hit it in three shots you may take it home as yours; but in case you miss you must promise to let me go unmolested, with it and the five dollars!
Edgren thought for an instant, and then agreed. He paid the money, received the •hare and tied it with a string to the limb of a small tree near by. Taking careful aim from the required distance he fired and missed. Angered because the poacher laughed he loaded his rifle and again aimed, this time long and carefullv but the bullet went wide. The third shot was equally deliberate and was instantly followed by two cries: one of triumph, the other an instant later of dismay. The hare dropped upon .a sharp-pointed stick which pierced its heart. The falling hare caused Edgren’s triumphant cry, but that of dismay came from the poacher who saw the shot had missed the hare only to cut the string.	*,
March. .	..	.
Wind-wed anew is the earth <	.	’
Rain-fed the- hidden;seeds, *	. .	7
Spring with the springtide’s birth, *	‘ "
Store for our winter’s needs. . C.L.O’D.
4o6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the ' University of Notre Dame.
tntered as second- class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $J.5O per Annum. Postpaid. Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Not e Dame, Ind:ana, April I, 1905.
Board of Editors.
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04-	,
MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04-HENRY M. KEMPER, ’05 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06
WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, ’05.
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06 EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06 BERNARD S. FAHY, ’05 WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’07.
—Too many people are prone to ignore the physical, moral and intellectual good that comes from the proper observance of Lent. •Least of all do they see the benefit physically which is derived, although the wise regimen of diet and freedom from social worry during the Lenten season are established on well-defined hygienic principles. The month of March is the most trying period of the year, for our bodies are then striving to accustom themselves to the sudden change from the rigors of winter, when the physical and. mental activities have been taxed to their limit, to the milder weather of a freshening springtime. What wonder then that coming as it does at this season of the year Lent should so help us in the process of “training down” physically and mentally. Moreover, as a writer in the Chicago Chronicle observes: “Walt Whitman talked about visiting with his soul. Lent is peculiarly a good time for this visit. There is leisure for communion with self.” Herein lies the moral value of Lent. It affords us a chance for meditation; to recall the past and think of the future; to do penance and resolve on amendment. Let us then enter into the spirit of the holy season with more earnestness and with the secondary purpose of achieving the physical as well as the spiritual good to be obtained.
—The question of success or failure has ever been, and will continue to be, a topic - uppermost in the mind of ever}- man from the self-made millionaire magnate down to the humble and indigent laborer; though it especially recommends itself to the college man because he has spent, or is spending, so many of the best years of his youth in preparation for its solution. Our magazines and newspapers have spent much time and gone to great lengths in discussing the matter and giving the opinions of main-men qualified to know. Whether it was prejudiced cynicism or a sincere love of truth that dictated the penning of these symposiums every man must decide for himself; but the fact remains that they created anything but a favorable impression. Therefore, doubly interesting is the result of the editor of Bradstreet’s statistical work on the subject.
According to his finding the proportion of failures in the business world is realty less than one per cent. His figures extend over a space of many years. He thinks that most of the new enterprises were begun by men who failed in other lines. This statement has furnished a peg whereon is hung	/
much . editorial comment relative to the	’
proverbial “Yankee” pluck, the “never say die” which characterizes and ennobles the American race; for if a man in this country	■
fails in one occupation, his faith in the	J
multitudinous other openings presented to	|
him is in no whit shaken; while on the* • other hand he is “never too old to learn,” - j and, figuratively speaking, would halt at	i
the edge of his grave to embark in a new	:
scheme which seemed to him to promise a larger income than it had been his previous good fortune to enjoy.
Of course these figures refer only to success or failure in the world of business; but then that is the. onlv kind of success that is relative and capable of just judgment. ; ■ Nevertheless, though this moral success, this \ triumph of conscience is the highest, and the ; noblest and the purest end to which we can . i aspire, yet the material success may not : be neglected; and it is in this regard we | declare there is good reason for every young ■ college man to feel confident of success, or	T
that if he does fail in his first attempt that .. I failure will not be permanent.	I

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Death of William Seton.
Fortified by the holy Sacraments of the Catholic Church, of which he has always been a most humble and devout member, Mr. William Seton of New York, and the illustrious representative of the Setons of Parboath, Scotland, departed this life on Wednesday, March 15, in St. Vincent’s Hospital, New York. This distinguished gentleman was born in the city of New York on January 2S, 1S35, and was one of the first students of Fordham, and later, of St. Mary’s, Emmittsburg, Maryland. After travelling extensiveh’ through Europe, Mr. Seton returned to the United States, and having studied law for three years passed the state bar examination and was admitted to the practice of his profession. The Civil War breaking out just at that time, he answered President Lincoln’s earliest call for volunteers, and became first lieutenant and afterward captain of the Fourth New York Regiment. In the battle of Antietam o	_
he was conspicuous zfor his bravery, being twice wounded on that bloody field. Having recovered from the effects of his injuries he was appointed a captain in the Sixteenth Artillery, and served under . Grant in, the campaign against Richmond. The close of the war marked for him the beginning of a life of study and literary occupation; the fruits of which time he embodied in several works of fiction, the most notable of which -are:. “The Romance of the Charter Oak,” “The Pride of Lexington,” and “Rachel’s Fate, and Other Tales.” A poem of his entitled “The Pioneer” won the admiration and praise of William Cullen Bryant.
In a few years he abandoned the world of fiction in order to devote himself entirely to the study of Natural History. By his lectures and his writings he did much to popularize the discoveries of the Natural Sciences, for he put them in clear and interesting English and freed them from ultra-technicality. Mr. Seton was a member of the Loyal Legion and an LL. D_ of Mount St. Alary’s College. Mother Seton, the foundress of the Sisters of Charity in the United States was his grandmother; and he himself was a brother of the late Colonel Seton and of the Most Rev. Archbishop of
Rome, who undoubtedly knows more about the Eternal City and its antiquities than any other living person. From such illustrious connections, then, comes Air. William Seton, who has so unselfishly bequeathed his valuable collection of family heirlooms to the Bishops’ Alemorial Hall of Notre Dame; for among these treasures is a unique original ' portrait of Alary Queen of Scots, which that unfortunate princess gave to one of Air. Seton’s ancestors; a dagger datingfrom 1334, together with some quaint snuff-boxes and ivory miniatures of several members of the famous family. To his many friends among the Faculty of the University, to hear that he was dead was indeed sad news; but their heartfelt sorrow is tempered, as is that of his bereaved family, by the knowledge that through his exemplary Christianity he triumphed in death even more gloriously than he had ever done in life.	-
The Story Beautiful.
Last Wednesday afternoon we had the rare treat of hearing Father AlacCorry in his illustrated lecture, “The Storv Beautiful?’ The title of'the lecture but vaguely expresses the grandeur of the subject as handled by this eminent Paulist Father. The story' of the life of Christ can never fail to be interesting, but seldom has it been portrayed with more intensity. This zealous priest has not only ransacked the art galleries of Europe in order to procure copies of the very best paintings for his ‘slides,’ but has also covered almost the entire field of English literature on the life of Christ in order to perfect his theme. The result is a grand triumph on the lecture platform, as was plainly testified by the prolonged applause of the students.	.
The speaker has a very pleasing voice, and although the house was in complete darkness his every gesture and facial expression was made perfectly visible by means of a small calcium light. His method of delivery was very dramatic, perhaps a little too much so, and he broke forth with volcanic power over the injustice that condones a man and condemns a woman fallen in sin. But this fiery speaker could also make the chords of sympathy vibrate, as was demonstrated in his description of
408	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Hoffman’s Virgin in the tomb.” According to press comments, “Father MacCorry’s effort is quite beyond anything of the kind attempted on this side of the Atlantic.” It is. perhaps the nearest approach to the “Passion Play” of Oberammergau, and it brings us back with a thrill of realism to the scenes enacted nearly . two thousand rears ago.
— ... — •
Book Review.
The Red Inn of Saint Syphax. By Anna T. Sadlier. Benziger Bros.	.
Those who are accustomed to expect something good whenever Anna T. Sadlier offers a new work will in no way be disappointed with “The Red Inn of Saint Syphax.” To the young readers who are already well acquainted with Miss Sadlier’s great ability as a storv-teller this work will especialljr appeal. The fact that the scene is laid in Brittany during the French Revolution gives it first of all the war setting which is a charm in itself. Added to this we have the plotting, narrow escapes, deeds of bravery and loyal devotion. There are few authors indeed who could present with - such vividness the mock trial where we have the tragedv and crimes of those awful days without the repugnance we are accustomed to feel; or the wild ride to escape in the “Revolutionary Tumbril. The mysterious power of the Vendean leader, Jambe d’Argent, which makes him uncon- • querable, and the love and ;self-devotion of the Breton peasants show the author to be a close student , of character and lend a delightful charm to the story. It is thoroughly interesting, wholesome and cleverly written. In reading it one finds . himself .hurried on with an irresistible eagerness, and the end comes all too soon.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame won the dual meet last Saturday afternoon by the score of 66 to 47. ' It was * the first meet held here this year, and it was. all the “ rooters ” could ask for. Every event proved to be a close and interesting contest. \	_
‘ The quarter-mile run and the relay were
the sensations of the meet. Kasper set a wonderful pace in the quarter; and when Keefe and O’Connell started their sprint it was certain that a fast quarter was to be run. Keefe won in 55 flat and O’Connell finished a few feet behind him.
In the relay O’Shea’s run clinched the event for Notre Dame. He ran second; and starting at least five yards behind his man caught him, and finished about five yards ahead of him. O’Connell made a great sprint, and when Keefe took up the last quarter it was all over but the shouting; and the spectators had witnessed one of the best relay races held here in years.
Draper as usual was the star of the meet and won 23 points for his team. He won the 40-vard dash and the 40-vard high and low hurdles without being pushed in any of them. In the low hurdles he equaled the world’s record, and came within one-fifth of a second of it in the high. The shot put also went to him, and without any practice he won second in the high jump.
Reed of Wabash had an easv time of it in the mile and two mile run, running as he pleased in both. At no time did anyone else have a look in, and Reed made his own pace and finished to suit himself.
The 220 - yard dash proved to be an exciting race from start to finish. Donovan won his heat in fast time, and Sparks of Wabash took his heat with ease. When the two came together in the final a good race was assured, and it came up to all expectations. Sparks won in 24 3-5 with Donovan a good second.
Scales’ work in the meet was far better than anything he had done last year, his running in the hurdles being of high order. He will prove a valuable successor to Draper. Scales won second in the low hurdles and -third in the high and also Avon third in the high jump. Evans’ injured leg did not give him a chance to show his real worth. His leg has been troubling him for some time and he was in very poor condition to enter a meet.;	~
Keefe and O’Shea ran a. good race in the half mile, Keefe running second, although he should have done more; for he is better than a 2:07 man, but the fast pace in the quarter took all the steam out of him. O’Shea’s rim gave all kinds of promise. This
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
409
was the first meet he was ever in, and from the manner in which he handled himself he promises to make as good a half-miler as the famous Uffendell who at one time was Notre Dame’s star.
The meet as a whole proves that we have track men, and that there is no reason why we should not have a track team that could compete in any meet in the West. CaptainDraper can now point his men for the meet with Michigan “Aggies” to be held in Lansing, Mich., on May 6; and judging from their work in the meet against Wabash, we will send a team up there which will make the “Aggies” “go some” to beat. Bracken 00	o
surprised himself and everyone else by going 10 feet in the pole vault.
Entries.
40-yard dash—Draper, Notre Dame, first; Sparks, Wabash, second; Guthrie, Notre Dame, third. Time, :04 4-5.
440-yard dash—Keefe, Notre Dame, first; O’Connell, Notre Dame, second; Diddle, Wabash, third. Time, :55.
•One-mile run—Reed, AVabash, first; McKinny, AV abash, second; Paupa, Notre Dame, third. Time, 4:57.
Shot put—Draper, Notre Dame, first; Guthrie, Notre Dame, second; Spaulding, AVabash, third. Distance, 39 feet 8 inches.
High Jump—Pierce, Wabash first; Draper, Notre Dame, second; Scales, Notre Dame, third; height, 5-514-	’
220-yard dash—Sparks, AVabash, first; Donovan, Notre Dame, second; Lally, Notre Dame, third. Time, :24 3-5.
40-yard high hurdles—Draper, Notre Dame, first; Andrus, AVabash, second; Scales, Notre Dame, third. Time, :05 2-5.
40-yard low hurdles—Draper, Notre Dame, first; Scales, Notre Dame, second; Bracken, Notre Dame, third. Time, :05 1-5.
880-yard run—Thomell, AVabash, first; Keefe, Notre Dame, second; O’Shea, Notre Dame, third. Time, 2:07 1-5.
Two - mile run — Reed, Wabash,, first; McKinny, AVabash, second; Powers, Notre Dame, third. Time, 11:47.
Pole vault—Bracken, Notre Dame, first; Miller, Wabash, second ; Guthrie, Notre Dame, third. Height, 10 feet.
Broad jump—Pierce, Wabash, 1st; Bracken, Notre Dame,: second; Evans, Notre Dame,
third. Distance, 20 feet 1114 inches.
Relav Race—Keefe, O’Shea, O’Connell and s'	J	/
Kasper, Notre Dame, first.
* * *
Captain Draper, running under the colors of the C. A. A., won more points than anv one man in the big Illinois Athletic • Club Meet held in Chicago Tuesdav night. He competed against the very pick of the West, men whose reputation have gone from coast to coast, and beat them. In the low hurdles, Draper won from such men as Catlin of Chicago, twice a conference winner and “touted” as the best hurdler the West has ever produced, and Baily of Y. M. C. A. In the shot put with five feet handicap he won second, defeating “Coe, the king of the putters in the East.” Not satisfied with this he won third in the high hurdles, o
Catlin of Chicago and Steffen of the First Regiment ran a dead beat in the ' high hurdles, with Draper a close third in :OS flat.	*
This is the third big indoor meet Draper has been in this vear, and in evervone he has -	-/J	- —
proven his ability as a track man. In Milwaukee in the M. A. C. games he won first in the low hurdles, second in the high, and second in the shot put. In St. Louis, he won second in shot put; and running from the scratch in the low hurdles and dash, he finished third in the dash, and was unplaced in the hurdles. Down there scratch men started not on the scratch but behind it, a scratch man having but verv little chance to win. Again Tuesday night he met the best men in the country in the biggest indoor meet ever held in the West. Indiana was well represented in the meet, as Verner . of Purdue, running for the C. A. A., ran a great race in the mile from scratch, and Barclav from Indiana University won the event with 48-yards handicap. Draper was easily the best, and it seems no matter’ where- the meet, or who the company, it always ends: “Draper of Notre Dame was the starl” ,
* - ■
. . ■ ■ - ' * * _ ' ■ '
Corby; Hall defeated South Bend Y.M. C.A. here Saturday night by the score of 28 to 14 in the fastest basket-ball game played at Notre Dame this year. Corby’s team-work was the best of the year and Hermann’s playing was brilliant. “ The game of his
410
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
life” is the only way to tell it. As an all-around basket-player Hermann is probably the best in the Halls; and his work Saturday night stamps him as a promising candidate for any basket-ball team in the country.
Seaman and Carr played well for South Bend, but compared with the work of Hermann their work was only mediocre. The game was played in the “Big Gym” and is the last game of the season. Corby has a team to be proud of, and can truthfully lay claim to the Inter-Hall Championship, and, in its class, is perhaps one of the best teams in the country.
Line-Up.		
Notre Dame		South Bend
C. Winters	R. G.	Wagner
Holiday, Wagner	- L. G.	Perkins
Pryor	C.	McCarthy (Capt.)
Hermann	R. F.	Seaman
Brennan	L. F.	Carr
Timers—Hufl'and Beaudery. Referee—Quinn. Umpire— Fress. Halves, 20 minutes.
- * * * - .
The season tickets will be on sale in a short time, and everyone should purchase their tickets early and get their money’s worth.
-2E-
* *
In less than a week Captain O’Connor will make the last cut in the baseball squad before picking the team. South Bend comes here to train April 6 and starts the series with Notre Dame on the 12th. By that time O’Connor will have, picked the team and Notre Dame will be prepared to enter the college games of 1905.
The work of the past week has been confined to batting practice, as when the men first come out of the “Gym”, they are notably weak in hitting. -. Within the last few days a decided improvement has been noticed, and O’Connor will now try and find the best order of batting for the men. Evans, Stopper and Monahan have been hurt which greatly handicaps the work of the out-field at present. Evans ruptured a blood vessel in his leg and can walk only with the aid of a crutch. Stopper has sprained his ankle, and will be out of the game for a week or two, while Monahan suffered an injury to his leg. Fansler, who has been out of the game for over a week because of an injuredfinger, is playing again and doing well.
Captain O’Connor is hitting the ball better than last year, and besides having the work of coaching a green team is playing exceptionally good ball. The diamond on Cartier Field has been skinned about ten feet behind short stop and a steam roller has been used on it, and we will now have one of the fastest diamonds in the West.
* * *
“ Chick ” Antoine, last years’ catcher, visited here over Sunday.
. * *
The track meet with Michigan “Aggies” o	oo
is to-be held on May 6, in Lansing, Mich., instead of at Notre Dame. .
Athletic Gossip.
“The newspapers will have at least one ball-player in the field this summer. D. G. Aiderman, a reporter for the Bee, has signed with Topeka in the Western Association. Aiderman is a left-hander, and has played at Notre Dame, when he twirled for the crack college team. He has been doing night police ‘stunts’ on the Bee all winter.”
— Omaha. Daily News.
“ W. A. Phelan touts Ruehlbach, the Notre Dame pitcher, drafted by Chicago, as being one of the best twirlers in the country. Nothing could beat Notre Dame with Ruehlbach in the box, and during the summer he pitched in the Missouri Valley League under the name of Lawson. Then he went East and pitched for independent teams. Players who have batted against him say he is a “wonder.”—Louisville Journal.
z	R. L. B.
Personals.
—Rev. Charles V. Lamb, S. J., of Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., was the guest of the University during the week.
—	Mrs. ,J. C. O’Connor of Delphi, Ind., recently visited her son John in Sorin Hall.
—	Mr. J. W. Wankrauship, ’83—’85, with his wife paid a short visit to his old friends at the University this week.	.
—	Visitors’ Registry:—Misses Hannah J. Berghoff and Agnes Kasper, Chicago; Mrs. Fanny C. Rucker, Independence, Missouri; H.F. Hudson, Chicago; Mri.and Mrs. B. F;
■ ■ - / ' . .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
411
Springer, Trinidad, Colorado; Mrs. George AI. Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana; Mr. Joseph F. and Miss Dorothy Beh, Harlan, Iowa; Mrs. R.Brenneck, Somonauk, Illinois; Mrs. A. Weilema, Grand Rapids, Michigan; Mrs. Anna Dougan, Mrs. Estelle Kimmel, Mrs. Lucy Finley, Niles, Michigan; Mrs. Margaret Smith, Chicago; Mrs. Edward Austen, Miss S. Simpson, Pokagon, Mich.; E. J. R. B. Roach, Frothingham V. MacLean, Baltimore, Maryland; Mrs. Orville Curtess, Airs. Frank Lamb, Buchanan, Michigan;’ Rev. Joseph B. Hill, Chicago; Miss Nellie M. Parks, Mrs. C. S. Austen, Mrs. J. Mears, Mrs. C. C. Bowman, Mrs. W.. C. Hobbs, Aliss Snyder, Airs. H. H. Hutchinson, Mishawaka, Indiana.	’
Local Items.
—“Keep off the grass.”
—A fair exchange in suit-cases is no robbery.
—A meeting will be held in Sorin some time next week for the purpose of electing a baseball captain and a captain of the crew.
—The Philopatrians of Carroll Hall will entertain the students of the University on Tuesday afternoon b\' staging a comedy in Washington Hall.
—The hand of the artist has again manifested itself. Through the efforts of their genial director the members of St. Joseph’s Hall can how boast of as impressive an alumni photo collection as can be found anvwhere in the University.
—The prospects for a good baseball team to represent St. Joseph’s Hall in the InterHall. series this year are very bright, the entire infield of last year being in good shape . for this season. There are plenty of candidates for the outfield positions, and all are showing up well.	.
—The early spring weather is appreciated by all the Halls. Reading-rooms, smokingrooms and the gymnasium have been deserted, and the baseball diamonds have claimed their former frequenters. Nines have . been organized in all the Halls, and close contests may be expected when - the InterHall series begins.
—St. Joseph’s lake is lower this year than it has been for a long time. Alany surmises . have been made as to the cause, principal among which are, the lack of rain, and the removal of'a vast quantity- of ice during the winter. If the latter reason is the cause of the great decrease it. would be advisable to prohibit the cutting of the ice, for in time it would despoil the beauty of the lake.
—Preparations have already begun for the building of a porch for Sorin Hall. Upon the
erection of the scaffolding many remarks of. regret came from the members of the water- . throwing brigade. Others, who thought . of the peace and comfort they could enjoy ' in the good old summer time, smiled and expressed themselves in this wise: “Ha, ha, ha! good joke. Ha, ha, ha,”, (continued).
—The majority of the students were very sorry to find at the meet last Saturday that a few students had adopted an ungentlemanlv method of rooting. Such men would please many if they would either stay away from the contests in.the. future -or refrain from hissing or hooting at an opponent. Every team likes and desires sportsmanlike rooting and a great deal of it; but neither a home team nor a visiting team benefits by. rowdyism. Let those, few take heed. A fair chance to all and encouragement to vour own side!	-
•/ ' 1
—The two first Minim track-teams, captained by Yrisarri and Cavanaugh, held an indoor meet last week, and so evenly matched were the teams that neither could win supremacy over the other, and both sides ' left the track with 32.points to their credit. The best work in the meet was done by Roe who ran the hurdles in fine form and captured , more than half of the points won. by his side. His work in the meet easily , establishes him as the best of the Minim track men. Peel, Cavanaugh and Yrisarri also did well. On the same day the second team held a meet in which Captain Heeb’s men easily defeated those led by Roberts. The final score was 48-29. The best work was done bv Kesselhuth and Cotter.
—Through the untiring zeal, energv, efforts, etc., of Thomas A. Hammer and _ John F. Shea, a musk-bag diamond has been. laid ont on the Sorin Hall grounds. These philanthropists wish to acknowledge their indebtedness and gratitude to several of the civil engineers who assisted them in their work. Practice will begin as soon as some * one succeeds in appropriating a ball from an unsuspecting Minim. The first game:, is to be -played Saturday evening, April 15. The sport will commence at 7:00 p. m. sharp. The president of the Buttinskis will, pitch the first ball. Tickets for reserved seats on the Sorin Hall roof-garden are now on sale. These cool refreshing seats should - be ., all sold by the time set for the opening, as the self-elected officers promise a.veiy close and ' exciting game. Bring your umbrellas as the weather is always threatening in the vicinity of. Sorin—especially in the region of the roof-garden.-	.	J
—One, of the latest organizations is the Boomerang Club. The following officers were elected on account of the, ability manifested by them: Charles de Lunden, president and coach; Waldorf Astoria, assistant
I
412
NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC,
coach in dodging, and Joe Bucke (resigned), official chaser. The first practice was taken March 24. On this occasion one of the weapons of suicide left on a hurried trip to the East. Inhabitants of Germantown are hereby given warning to be on the look-out.
—The St. Joseph’s Literary and Debating Society held their regular meeting last Wednesday evening. The program opened with the debate: “Resolved, That the Present Tariff System is the best that can be devised.” The affirmative side was upheld by Messrs. J. V. Cunningham andW. P. Galligan. The negative was supported by E. P. Cleary and J. W. Sheehan. The House acted as Judge, and their decision was in favor of the affirmative. The oration on “American Poets” ' by Mr. John Dempsey was well prepared and enjoyed by all. Mr. Malloy sustained his reputation as an elocutionist in his rendition of “The Dream of Eugene Aram.” Mr. Par' rish’s impromptu speech on “The Stability ■ of Our Constitution” showed him a very ready speaker. A motion was made to adjourn and was carried.
—A large and noisy bunch of fans saw the Colts do it. Thej’ handed the Juniors a bunch which they could not untie and win the. game in the tenth inning bv a timely slug by Herne. “'Pertoot,” the captain and manager, officiated in his old position at short, and played with all of his old-time form, missing every ball but one. The other son of Ogle County held down third, and his position is secure. The remainder of the team was made up of green men, but all give promise of being ball missers. “The Golden Grail” in centre field knocked four long fouls and made one difficult stop, the ball flying within three feet of him, but calmly putting out his hand he speared it and the runner was out. Denis Shelden in the right garden pulled down three long drives which would have been home runs, but for him getting his paw in the road.
The new pitcher was the sensation; the rooters sang loud and often “ Ain’t he a Dream” and “He Looks Just a Little Different than are the Rest to Me.” But he fooled them, and only nineteen hits were made off his delivery.
Captain “Pertoot” will make a cut in a few days, and only the men who have proven their ability to miss everything coming their way will be kept.
* John Bun, except the Ogle County Twins, is the only man who has his position clinched. He has proven beyond a doubt that he is a losing man on a losing team.. “Pertoot”, cautioned him time and again not to over exert himself—and he didn’t. Not John, but - his heart, is bad, and any gait faster than that of a snail would cause irritation of the ragus fibre. Do not miss the next game, all
come out and watch “Pertoot” lead the Colts on to defeat—or just on.
—When Colonel Oberst and John Bun , had their grass cut and Hank Simon had recovered from his St. Patrick’s Day celebration, the Corby braves, after a strong plea on the part of Joe Buckley, concluded that the baseball season had arrived. Buckley had been up to Bertrand the week before in consultation with the editor of the Bertrand Eagle on the said subject, and had convinced that head-light of-knowledge in. the most inductive methods of reasoning that Quig 0. D. was the natural successor to Joe of automobile fame. For that and other state reasons, he proposed the plan to begin the work of the league. Year after year, six, to be accurate, the widely-known “Ragtails” and “Rudy Jays” have lost games on the campus. But now all is changed; the guiding spirit of the league, J. Pierpont 0’Relay, has deserted. However, let it not be inferred that he seeks fame in any other league, neither has he been called to the Happy Hunting Grounds,—simply, he is not in the game. If his new business duties in Toledo permit, he will come here to witness the annual clash of the “Ragtails” and some team in the “Big Four.” •
This year many new faces will grace the league. “Little Eckie” will lead the “Truck Wagons” on to defeat. His team will be made up of new men, but rest assured the games will be lost the same as usual. Joe Buckley, the debater, who held a position on the bench with the bats for the Elgin Standards will do the heavy work behind the plate, and in consequence the failure of the team is a 'certainty.
“Bennie from the South,” assisted by “Smush Dick,” will captain the ungainly “Highballs,” and the success of that team in defeat is also assured. The old captain of the “Ragtails” will captain the “Water Wagons,” and that is enough. They always lost. .	•	.
The “Red Pops” will, be captained by a man who has been playing ball in Central Illinois under the assumed name of Geo. Brennen, and that team is also a sure loser. A strong and timeh- lot of “hitters” they will all be, and losing games can be witnessed free of charge every Thursday morning. Miss these games and you are foolish. Never has anyone had the chance to see so many high-class ball-tossers who are so bad that they are good. “The Man Who Made Milwaukee Famous,” is an attraction offered at every game, and he, along with the game itself, should be enough. Come and see them, and bring your friends who are strong with the hammers—the only league in the world where every team loses and no one wins.