The Notre Dame Scholastic
135
< < HUI S I
The other day some one mentioned music as a pretty ornament for idle moments, something to decorate a chance hour. We were interested in this and asked him if he meant Jazz. He said “No, I mean all music in general.”
Well! For a moment or two we didn’t know what to say, and then, after the two minutes were gone, he left—and we had no one to talk to— which may or may not have been fortunate—for us!
Anyway! It does seem to us, life being anything but a lengthy “sure bet” and the world we live in such a wonderful and vast and many scened domicile, that it is, really, nothing short of folly to confine our views, our ideas, our perceptions of this round theater stage that has a billion stars for audience, to little petty things, little daily happenings, whose significance is measured only by their smallness.
Given the fact of our temporary walking about on this stage and the presence, thereon, of all kinds of marvellous scenery, beautiful back-drops, mysteriously whispered cues, mystically breathed noises from the scenery: should we, then, confine our attention only to those things chancing to fall under the glance of our seldom lifted eyes?
Should we watch only the boards on which we walk, listen only to the talk of a few fellow actors, as narrow and limited in their visions as ourselves?
A reasonable answer would seem to be No. So then, how to increase our awareness, our consciousness, of the meaning of the vast things around us?
There are many ways. Religion, of course, is the great awareness producer. But how about the helps to this ?
Music, really great music that is, may, perhaps, be called the most loudly and significantly spoken cue that we receive from the dim corners of back stage. It sweeps us into the rhythms that swept us on the stage, it sounds the tones in which are sung the mysteries of the creation of that stage, and speaks the essence of reality. -
Now, just as we begin to answer our friend we find we are running out of space—possibly next week?
No^ re Dame 5 choicest i c
Disee- Quasi - Sernper-VictUFus^Vlva-Quasi-CTas-MorituTiis
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley.
Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire. Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon.
J. Archer Hurley. ... Walter Langford______ Joel Egerer__________ Joseph Reedy_________
Alfred E. Gall
Paul J.
Hallinan
....Managing Editor Ass’t Managing Editor Ass’t Managing Editor ....The	Week ...The College Parade ....Music and Drama ....Campus	Clubs ....Script.Editor ....Features Editor
LITERARY STAFF
Richard Sullivan Literary Editor
William Knapp Louis L. Hasley John L. Nanovic Edward E. Brennan Louis A. Brennan
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Ramon Smith
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor William J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor
Harry A. Sylvester
Henry B. Asman
James McFeeley Robert C. Balfe
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman...Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis
James L.
Rizer
.. .Local Advertising Manager Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
OCTOBER 18, 1929.
No. 5.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Coming Events--------------------------------
A Man You Know—Emil Telfel_l-----------------
Campus Clubs—Joseph Reedy___________ The Week—Archer Hurley______________ Editor’s Page_______________________ Two Essays—John L. Nanovic__________ The Professor Is Gone—Walter N. Langford----- Stillness—Robert Anthony____________---------
Fighting Irish Sink Navy Dreadnaught—John Kiener. Splinters From the Press Box—H., A. S., Jr---
136
137
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
158
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Th? Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AU Notre Dame Men

136
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, October 18.—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting-, Publications’ Office, .7:00 p. m.—Movies, Washington Hail, “Submarine” with Jack Holt.—La Raza Club meeting, Badin “Rec” room, 7:00 p. ni.
SATURDAY, October. 19.—No classes.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Soldiers’ Field, Chicago.— Victory Dance, Hotel Stevens, 9:30. — Quadrangular Cross-Country meet: Notre Dame, Northwestern, Illinois and Wisconsin, at Evanston.
SUNDAY, October 20. — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass, 9:00.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, October 21.—Illustrated Lecture, Notre Dame Academy of Science, 110 Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Last day for handing in applications to Scribblers.—Meeting of A. I. E. E., Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m. —Cotillion Programs, 3:15 p. m., Room 15, Morrissey -Hall.—Interhall football, 3:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, October 22.—Press Club meeting.—Special Junior day for Dome pictures, old refectory, 9:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m.—Interhall football, 3:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, October 23.—Boston Club Smoker, Faculty dining room, 7:45.—Engineers’ Club banquet, Rotary Room, Oliver Hotel.—Philadelphia club meeting, North Room, Library, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, October 24. — PreCarnegie Pep meeting, Gymnasium, 6:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, October 25. — Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Office, 7:00 p. m.—The Cotillion of Charm, Palais Royale.— Movies, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
PRESIDENT O’DONNELL TO BE HONORED IN CHICAGO
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University,-will be guest of honor at a banquet to be given by the Society of Midland Authors in Chicago, on October 26. Father O’Donnell ranks among the foremost Catholic authors of the country, and several of his books of verse have been published. Readers of the well known magazine, the Ave Maria, are familiar with his poetry,
as he has been one of its most noted contributors for many years. Members of the society are the prominent literary figures of the mid-west. The choosing of Father O’Donnell as honor guest of the evening is a deserved tribute to his abilities as a writer.
Father O’Donnell has also been invited to be present at the dedication of the technical school which Henry Ford is opening at Dearborn, Michigan, on October 21. Numerous dignitaries from all parts of the country will be there, and elaborate ceremonies have been planned. President Hoover will officiate at the dedication.
INTER-HALL DEBATING TO START SOON
Inter-hall debating, which is sponsored by the Wranglers Club of Notre Dame each year, will swing into action within the next two weeks, according to James J. Walsh, president of the club.
The question which will be argued this year has not yet been’announced, but will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic. Only the freshman halls are eligible for the competition and the cup, which the club donates.-
Inter-hall debating has been highly praised by those in charge of varsity debating, who have discovered many promising debaters among the ranks of the freshmen.
Thomas Keegan, a member of the Wranglers, has been appointed chairman of the committee that is taking charge of the debates this year. He promises a better worked out plan for coaches and judges than has ever before been put into operation.
The coaches for the different halls are as follows: Howard, Frank Noll and Tim Benitz; Brownson, Ed Phelan and Pat Ryan; Carroll, Jim Walsh and John Wilson; Freshman, Walter Stanton and Neil Hurley.
Announcements will be made in the freshman halls shortly concerning the times for practice and also issuing a call for candidates.
SENIORS TO HOLD “TECH HOP”
The Senior class will sponsor its first dance of the school year Saturday evening, October 26 following the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game.
Most of the plans for the dance have been completed, as announced by Ray Reardon, president of the Senior class; it will be held in the K. of
C. ballroom between the hours of 8:30 and 11:30. The program of the dances will be played by the Notre Dame Jugglers. Jack Faulkes, student director of the orchestra, states that it is now in its second year, and is receiving favorable comment upon its dance music. Inasmuch as the Jugglers are all students from the University, the Senior class feels that they should be given preference over other orchestras for this dance.
Tom Purcell is general chairman of the dance, and the sale of tickets is under the supervision of Joe McCabe, Con Carey, and Frank Corbett. The price of each ticket is §1.50 per couple or $1.00 for “stags.’’ A canvass of the halls will be made soon, and tickets may also be purchased at the door on the evening of the dance. A special invitation is extended to the Sophomores and their guests.
DR. J. B. BERTELING, ’80, SIGNALLY HONORED
Wednesday night, October 9th, a fitting tribute was paid a Notre Dame graduate of 1880, in a testimonial banquet given Dr. J. B. Berteling, by the St. Joseph County Medical Association.
Dr. Berteling, for 20 years University Physician and a professor here for a good deal of that time is possibly the first in a number of years to receive such signal honors at the hands of the County Medical Association.
Dr. Stoltz was toastmaster, and lauded Dr. Berteling for his great success, the latter having held every office it is possible for the Association to confer.	•
His sterling character and amazing skill were attested, to by those who, possibly, have been in the best position to recognize his ability. Among them were Dr. William S. King, Health Commissioner of the State of Indiana, Dr. Miles Porter of Fort Wayne, the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and the Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C.
NOTICE!
A dance will be given by the Junior Class, Thursday evening, November 7. Further details will be announced in next week’s issue of the Scholastic. ,
❖--------------------------
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College of Commerce Notes
On Thursday, October 10, the Reverend Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., spoke before the Notre Dame-Chicago Club at the Hamilton Club in Chicago. The evening was known as “Commercial night,” and was the first regular meeting of the organization. Mr. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, was scheduled to speak before the club, but was unable to attend the affair on account of illness. As a consequence, Father Lahey was appointed to substitute for him. The subject of his talk was “The Progress of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame.”
#
Professor William F. Shors, instructor in Advanced Accounting, has been admitted to the practice of public accountancy by the State Board of Certified Accountants of Indiana.
4:	ij: j-s
All Seniors who have received letters from Dean McCarthy may interview him each day in the Director of Studies’ office between the hours of one and three. All other students in the College of Commerce who are in doubt concerning their credit standing are asked to see Dean McCarthy soon in order that such difficulties may be straightened out.
PROF. HOYER LECTURES
Professor’ Raymond Hoyer, dean of the Boy Guidance Department, attended the National Recreation Congress held in Louisville, Kentucky this week and addressed the convention oil “Recreational Leadership Training.” Delegates engaged in playground and recreational work represented every city in the United States.
“JUGGLER” MAKES INITIAL APPEARANCE
Making its initial appearance on the campus Monday night, the Freshman number of the “Juggler” had a campus sale of almost double that of last year’s Freshman number. The cover, which was a radical departure from the usual slapstick humor, especially received much favorable comment.
According to John Nano vic, editorin-chief, the number of both contributors and contributions for this number was far above the average. The prizes, of five dollars each for art
work and written matter were awarded to Arthur Kane and Paul J. Hallinan, respectively. A feature article by McCready Huston was well liked.
Deadline for the next issue, the Football number, will be Saturday, October 26. The customary five dollar prizes for art work and written matter will again be awarded. All material should be submitted to the editor in 130 Sorin Hall. This issue of the “Juggler” will be out the Monday of the California game and will continue the features begun in the present issue.
A Man You Know
One of the best means by which we may judge the capabilities of a person is the esteem in which he is held by his fellow men. But many times recognition is given in an im-
Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C.
personal, matter-of-fact manner—an expression of respect lacking the true affection which is the basis of genuine admiration. The recognition that has been accorded to the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., is at once as tribute to his abilities as an administrator and executive, and to his fine character as a man and as a priest.
Father Mulcaire was born in Limerick, Ireland, in 1894, and received his grade school education there. His high school days were spent at Notre Dame, so that in 1913 he entered the University, receiving his A. B. degree in 1917. His theological training was secured at Holy Cross College,
Washington, and in 1922 he was ordained by Bishop Hoban in Sacred Heart Church. The following year, 1923, Catholic University conferred upon him the degree of Ph.D. for work in the fields of sociology and economics. From 1923 to 1924 Father Mulcaire was assistant superior of Moreau Seminary. The next year- he moved across the lake to become prefect in that most famous of halls, Freshman. Then Morrissey had him as prefect until Christmas, 1926, at which time he left to become rector of Sophomore Hall, where he remained until his election to the vicepresidency of the University in 1928.. He holds a position on several committees, and is at present the head of the department of economics and politics.
His interest in debating has always been most ardent, a fact attributory to his three years of varsity debating at Notre Dame. For one year, 192728, he was coach of the varsity, and produced a debating team of unusual merit.
In a few years Father Mulcaire has risen rapidly to positions of increasing responsibility in the Community. He has manifested an almost infinite capacity for work. To mention the thankless task of apportioning jobs to students is an indication of the duties he must perform.
As a professor of economics he is distinguished by his abilities for analysis and explanation, for exposition and clarification. No one in his classes can justly say that economics is a dry subject, for his comprehensive knowledge, especially of those branches entailing- the problems of labor, inspire interest.
Father Mulcaire has, it is to be supposed, some hobbies; but when the matter of golf was mentioned he declined to commit himself.
1	NOTICE 1	1
E The Dome photographer will £ E be on the campus, in the old = = faculty dining hall, under Car- = E roll Hall, until Oct. 24. Those E . E who have not as yet had their = E pictures taken are requested to e E do so during the next week. E E By co-operating in this mat- s E ter, the seniors and activity men E E ’’will insure for themselves better E E pictures and will facilitate E E matters for the editorial staff as = E no cuts can be made until all E E pictures are taken.	E
[■JiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiimitHiniiiiintiiiiiitiiiiitiil*]
■568^3
138
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Blue Circle Committees Announced
Chairman Robert J. Kuhn has an
nounced that the various Blue Circle
Committees have been appointed, and
Robert J. Kuhn
are actively at wo r k. The members of the Blue Circle plan to make it a really useful organization this year. The c ommittees will co-operate with the S. A. C. in all the phases of student ac
tivity. New and striking features are being planned for pep meetings, student trips, and the cheering section at the games.
Two committees that will be especially active «are the Vigilance Committee and the Gridgraph Committee. The former will see to it that order is preserved at all student gatherings. The latter- will attend to the gridgraph. The Committee appoints men to take care of the various phases of the operation of the gridgraph during the presentation of the games. ’
Each man is responsible for his work, and with this system much of the trouble heretofore experienced
-----------------------------**
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE HELD LAST FRIDAY
The first of a series of dances given during the year by the Scholarship Club of South Bend was held last Friday evening, Oct. 11, at Playland Park.
The Scholarship Club is composed of a group of married women in South Bend. It was organized in the fall of 1920 for the purpose of providing funds for needy students. In the nine years of its existence, the Club has taken care of 50 students, 24 of whom have already been graduated. To raise funds, the club gives four dances a year and also provides girls for the affair. These girls are the guests of the club and each club member provides about 10 to 15 girls.
with the gridgraph will be eliminated.
The personnel of the various Blue Circle Committees are as follows:
Vigilance Committee—Frank McAdams, chairman; Frank Walker, Larry Mullins, Bart Cronin, Harry Sylvester, and Sam Richards.
Publicity Committee — Tom Keegan, chairman; Bob Pendergast, Murray Hickey Ley, Anthony Kegowicz, and James Callahan.
Gridgraph Committee — Jack Walker, chairman; Patrick Goggin, Jerry Parker, Walt Bernard, Frank Mosher, Tom Medland, Dan Welchons, Fred Zimmerman, Felix Isherwood, Arthur Kane, Ron Sullivan, L. Fitzsimmons, Ed Franks, Pat Higgins, Frank McGreal, Herbert Petzel, Bill Jane, Eugene Calhoun, N. Hoffman, Ray Catizone, Ben Salvaty, Jack Carney, John Olson, Phil Dunleavy, Larry Vegar, Bud Golden, and Norman Duke.
Pep Meetings Committee—Walter Scholand, chairman; Jim Kerrigan, John Golden, Joe McCabe, Frank Downs, W. Walterson, C. Driscoll, Clarence Donovan, Frank Dailey, Joe Kelly, Walter Cahill, Norman Chevalier and Ed Madden.
Clubs Committee — Charles Rohr, chairman; George O’Malley, Tom Kenneally, and Jack Sigler.
Entertainment Committee—Tom Litzwan, chairman; John Warner, Jean Stack, George Spalding, George Vik, Vic Record, Jim Sullivan, Charles Geherin, and Pat Heil.
NANO VIC TO TALK BEFORE STATE HIGH SCHOOL
EDITORS
John L. Nanovic, editor of the Juggler will speak this afternoon before the Indiana High School Association, and the Indiana Journalistic Teachers’ Association, which is holding a three-day convention at Franklin College, Franklin, Indiana. Mr. Nanovic’s talk will treat of the part humor plays in high school publications, and will be followed by an open forum in which the high school editors will present their problems to the convention.
The two organizations, sponsored by Franklin College since their inception, are in their eighth year. The annual convention is one of the largest high school conventions in any state, with the attendance well over
five hundred. The invitation to our own Funny Fellow reflects an honor upon the school and its humorous publication which, in its first issue this year, shows that it will not only equal, but surpass the reputation it has earned thus far.
2300 STUDENTS TO VIEW GAME TO-MORROW
Approximately 2300 students will leave the campus to-morrow morning over the South Shore railroad for Chicago, the scene of Notre Dame’s first home scheduled game with the strong Wisconsin eleven on Soldier’s Field, Grant Park, at 2:00 p. m. The first train will leave the South Shore Station in South Bend at 8:00, and on every hour thereafter until noon. The return trip to South Bend can be made on any regular South Shore train leaving Chicago Saturday night. Trains will leave on the hour up until 1:00 a. m. Sunday morning.
The gates to Soldier’s Field will be open at twelve o’clock. Spectators at the game to-morrow will be required to show their tickets at the entrance to the park. Busses marked “Soldier’s Field,” moving south on Michigan Boulevard, furnish one of the best means of transportation from the Loop to the Stadium.
A solid cheering section will be needed at the game to-morrow for 5,000 students of Wisconsin will be present to cheer their own team on to victory. They will be accompanied by a' 100-piece band under the direction of Major E. C. Murphy, who will co-operate with the Notre Dame band during the half in executing all maneuvers. The Wisconsin delegation will leave Madison Saturday morning and arrive in Chicago shortly before noon, where they will parade to their headquarters at the Drake hotel.
ENGINEER’S CLUB TO GIVE INITIATION BANQUET
One hundred and eighty members of the Notre Dame Engineer’s Club met last Tuesday night and participated in a pleasant evening of business and entertainment.
, Zeno Staudt, well known banjo artist of the campus, furnished a half hour of novel entertainment for those present.
John J. Cassidy, president of the club, presided at the meeting and presented plans that have been arranged for an initiation banquet. The banquet is to be held in South Bend, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel, Wednesday, October 23.
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
139
Cotillion Looms As Big Social Event
A survey of the sophomore class, made this week by John C. Litcher, general chairman of the Cotillion committee, reveals that there will be probably over 300 couples at the formal class dance, next Friday evening, Oct. 25 at the Palais Eoyale. Tramping around to St. Edward’s, Sophomore, Lyons and Morrissey, and canvassing the off-campus division by automobile, Litcher endeavored to estimate the size of the crowd, the prospects for ticket sales, and general spirit in regard to the Cotillion.
“The dance” said Litcher, Thursday, “attracting as it does, the favorable attention of the sophomores, will, in my opinion, be a success. The tone of the affair, as suggested by the name, ‘Cotillion of Charm/ has appealed to many who dislike the flashy prominence of numerous dances. Then, too, Jack Crawford’s orchestra—probably the best to ever play for Cotillion dancers—will draw many others.”
Crawford’s band of musicians, according to those who have heard him from the Steel Pier at Atlantic City, has become popular with a style that is neither typically Ted-Lewisian nor Rudy-Valleeian. “Not too hot, nor too sentimental,” are the words of the music committee, whose mem-
ST. EDWARD’S HALL HOLDS FIRST SMOKER
All the students of St. Edward’s Hall were present at the first smoker given by the hall, Tuesday evening, October 15th at 7:30 p. m. The Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., rector of the hall was in charge of the affair and was assisted by Alfred Gall, Sam Locken, Joe Bell, John Col-rick, Tim Moynihan, Frank Staudt, and Richard O’Toole, who were in charge of the refreshments. Jerome Parker was in charge of the decorations.
The smoker, which was held in Brownson “Rec,” was enjoyed by the students, the hall prefects and visiting guests among whom were the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who gave a short talk telling what was expected of St. Edward’s students; the Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and the Reverend Michael Quinlan, C S.C., who gave a brief speech on the St. Edward’s of by-gone
bers are satisfied that their part of the work will be pleasing. Crawford’s orchestra is now playing in Louisville, Ky.
Programs are to be obtained by the Sophomores in advance of the dance. Although their exact nature has been kept a secret by the committee in charge, the announcement was made yesterday that they would be ready for distribution Monday afternoon, after 3:15, in Bernard Heitz’ room at 15 Morrissey hall. A stub of the ticket is to be presented.
Patrons and Patronesses for the “Cotillion of Charm,” will be: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mills, Mr. and Mrs. Philip Riley, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Riordan, Mr. and Mrs. William Holton, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Schubmehl, Mr. Andrew Smithberger, Mr. William Shors, and Mr. Camille McCole.
With just a week before the affair, ticket sellers expect busy days; tuxes are being bought, rented and shipped from home; girls in Chicago, New York, Cleveland, and from all over Illinois and Indiana are planning now for the Cotillion; St. Mary’s and South Bend girls are planning, too. “The Cotillion of Charm,”—one week from tonight!
days. Father Quinlan is numbered among the first hundred students at old St. Edward’s. Tommy Mills, assistant varsity coach gave two recitations which brought forth much laughter from the audience.
ROCKNE TO BE AT GAME TO-MORROW
Coach Rockne, who has been incapacitated with a serious leg injury, will undoubtedly be present at the game to-morrow with Wisconsin at Soldier’s Field.
The attending doctor’s reports stated that Rockne’s condition was still critical, and that he must rest. Rockne, however, insists that he report at daily practice sessions, even if he must direct his team from the tonneau of his automobile, as has been the procedure this past week.
Mr. Rockne will probably have to rely upon a wheel-chair in attending the game to-morrow, but he is determined to be present at the contest and lead his team to victory. A speedy recovery is hoped for by the students and friends. •
CHURCH RESTORATION PLANS ANNOUNCED
With the addition of a $10,000 donation by an anonymous donor, the project of renovating the Church of the Sacred Heart at the University received new impetus last week. The announcement by the Reverend Lawrence Broughall, C.S.C., Secretary of the Church Restoration Committee, of this generous act should inspire every Notre Dame man with a deep sense of gratitude and a desire to co-operate in a work that means so much for the spiritual welfare of the University.
Mr. Wilfred E. Anthony, of New Y ork City, is the architect in charge of the work. Present plans, though not fully announced, call for the cleaning and re-touching of the beautiful interior decorations and mural paintings, which have stood the rava. ges of the years. The side walls and the immense pillars down the centre aisle of the church are to harmonize with the general scheme of decoration, which will be of a Gothic nature. An entirely new system of lighting, by means of ornamental lanterns, will replace the present antiquated and dangerous one. A marble floor, both in the aisle and in the sanctuary, is also to be installed. The apsidal chapels, which have never been completed, are to receive artistic treatment.’
Contributions from the present sophomore, junior and senior classes, for the portions to be dedicated as their memorial have been coming in steadily since the preliminary announcement was made last year. The freshman class will be invited in the near future to lend their aid to this cause.
NOTRE DAME “JUGGLERS” PROVE POPULAR
The Notre Dame Jugglers, Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta’s snappy jazz orchestra, have been very busy playing for entertainments and dances during the past week and from their list of future engagements, they should have a very busy fall. Among their appearances were the State Convention of Nurses, American Legion Convention, St. Joseph Benefit dance and the St. Mary’s dance. Future engagements include the St. Joseph Valley Alumni banquet, Senior Class football dance, American Legion social event, and an engagement in Chicago during the Notre Dame— Northwestern football week-end.
140	The
K. OF C. COMMITTEES APPOINTED FOR THE YEAR
All committees of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus were appointed at the regular meeting Monday night in Walsh hall by Grand Knight Jack Chevigny. Nine groups were chosen to assist the council officers in carrying out the proposed work of the year.
The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., prefect of discipline of the University, gave the principal talk of the evening and stressed activities work over that of social for the Knights. He said that the council should be the most active organization on the campus and should not content itself with keeping up with the social life. It should also be the leaders in a religious way, he said.
Francis McGreal, newly appointed lecturer, took the chair for the first time this year and introduced his entertainment committee. He promised the council that many notable speakers would appear on the programs this year.
Bill McAleer, tenor, sang several solos which were well received. He was accompanied by John Beljon at the piano. Committees appointed are:
Membership — Nick Bohling and Frank McAdams, co-chairmen; James Simmons, Fred Rahaim, William Harrington, Malcolm McVean, William Cleary, Bernard Conroy and John Keefe.
Transfer — William Kerrigan, chairman; Patrick Dillon, Joseph Lauerman, and Donald Malloy.
Lapsation— Jerry Smith, chairman; James Collins and Robert Hil-ger.
Sick—Robert Streb, chairman; Joseph Petritz and Charles Rohr.
Initiation Banquet — Martin Travers, chairman; John Rocap, Howard Smith, Bill Miller and Frank Dayton.
Publicity—Ed Connors, chairman; John Golden and John Dorschel.
Investigation — Walter Scholand, chairman; Frank Walker, Charles Klefeker, Harry O’Rourke and Russell Scheidler.
Building Fund — The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., and the Reverend Francis O’Hara, C.S.C., cochairmen; Robert Kuhn, Thomas Keegan, William Coyne, Phillip Flynn and Austin Barlow.
House — Dan Cannon, chairman; Joe Nash, Joe Munizzo, John Fay and Ed O’Brien.
Notre Dame Sc h olas t
“LAWYER” MAKES INITIAL APPEARANCE
The Notre Dame Lawyer, the official monthly publication of the' Hoynes College of Law, made its first appearance of the year on the campus last Wednesday. It is edited by Francis B. Ready, a senior in the College of Law.
The edition is complete with splendid articles by such writers as Clarence Ruddy, the first editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer and once famous campus personality, and now a practicing attorney in Aurora, Ill.; Raymond Young, Larry O’Connor, and William Konop, who are all seniors in the Law College.
PEP MEETING HELD LAST NIGHT
Last night as a forerunner to the Wisconsin game, the second pep meeting of the season was held. The band met the students as they left the dining halls and then paraded around the campus by the light of large- red and green flares. The march ended at the gym where cheerleader, Dan Barton, led the gathered students in cheers for the school, the team and Coach Rockne. Bob Hellrung, president of the S. A. C. then introduced the speakers. These were Jack Chevigny, Byron Kanaley of Chicago, Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, Senator Robert Proctor of Indiana, and Professor “Pat” Manion. Following this, Jack Chevigny introduced the members of the varsity who were not present at the last meeting.
♦J*
I! S. A, C. Notes I!
Notre Dame abounds in historical traditions. Many of them are unusual and striking, such as the fact that two of the founders had only one pair of boots and one hat between them, so that when one of them was abroad, the other was very necessarily at home; or that at one time horses were actually unyoked from the plough to be sold for debt; or the story of how workmen toiled for hours in the attempt to seat the Dome where it was intended to rest, and of how the vibrations of the church bell as it pealed the “angelus” finally settled it while workmen were at their meal. The founders of the university had to battle against misfortunes and calamities, but. they were filled with a faith that not only* believed but also
i c
fought; and that heroic faith has been canonized by tradition.
The memory of George Gipp is another of the sacred heirlooms of Notre Dame. About the memory of this immortal captain has grown up a halo of tradition that is among Notre Dame’s most cherished possessions. George Gipp died in December, 1920, shortly after playing his last game. During his final illness, two thousand students prayed daily for his recovery. His memory is still enshrined in the hearts of Notre Dame men; he lives today as truly as he did when his “flying cleats” made history on Cartier Field.
It was not long after his death that the series of events occurred which gave rise to the story of the Ghost of Washington Hall. Many tales of the visitation of the spirit are told, and although some persons are skeptical as to their truth, the story has been handed from student to .student during the last decade. Those persons most closely connected with the events still believe to this day that the spirit of George Gipp actually did return on several occasions to Washington Hall. Whatever the truth concerning the origin of • these ghostly visitations may be, the fact remains that the Ghost of Washington Hall has become the character about which many fanciful tales have been woven, and the story will go down to student posterity as long as one stone of Notre Dame remains upon another.
CHICAGO CLUB DANCE TO BE GALA AFFAIR
The Wisconsin dance which will be held under the auspices of the Chicago club of Notre Dame and the alumni of Chicago, will be held Saturday evening in the Main Dining room of the Hotel Stevens. Dancing will be from 9:30 to 12:00 a. m.
According to William J. McCarthy, president of the campus organization, the dance this year will surpass all other football dances sponsored by the club. Music will be furnished by Stoke’s Studebaker Champions famed radio broadcasters from station KYW, and entertainment during the course of the evening will be given by Louise Bond and her company from the musical comedy, “Follow Thru.”
Tickets may be purchased tonight from any member of the Chicago club.
The Initial meeting of the Law Club will be held Monday evening, October 21st, in the Lay Faculty Dining Room.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
141

j CAMPUS; CLUbS
BOSTON CLUB
Following the plan of semi-monthly meetings, the Boston Club will hold a smoker in the lay faculty dining hall Wednesday evening at 7:45. The officers of the organization request that all members attend and co-operate in considering plans fox- a dance during the Christmas recess.
WABASH VALLEY CLUB
Many new members were admitted to the Wabash Valley Club, Wednesday night, Oct. 7, at the initial meeting held in the Law- building. Harold Tuberty and Jerry Ball were named co-chairmen for the first banquet of the year to be held sometime this month. The club anticipates a very active year and requests that members be consistent in attending meetings. The officers of the club are: Lawrence A. O’Connor, president; J. MacSenger, vice-president; Marshall F. Kizer, secretary; and Thomas G. Medland, treasurer.
•	INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
Preliminary plans for the annual Christmas dinner dance will be discussed at the meeting of the Indianapolis Club, Wednesday evening, October- 23, at 7:30. All freshmen and upperclassmen who have not yet joined the club are invited to attend this meeting and take active part in considering activities for the year.
PHILADELPHIA CLUB
Election of officers and discussion of plans for activities during the semester occupied the minutes of the meeting held by the Philadelphia Club, Wednesday evening, October 9, in the south room of the Library. Many freshmen were present at the meeting and their number coupled with those of upper-classmen gave the enrollment its largest representation of any preceding year.
Frank McManus was elected chairman of the Christmas formal committee and preparations are already under way to make the event an unusual success. A smoker was also planned for the near future.
A hearty invitation is extended to all students living at Notre Dame whose homes are in Philadelphia, South Jersey, and Delaware to join the club at the next meeting, Wednesday, October 23. The officers for this year are: Harry Francis, president; Thomas Conley, vice-president; Joseph Dalsey, secretary; and William Cooney, treasurer.
ROCHESTER CLUB
Thirty-five members were present at the Rochester Club banquet Wednesday evening in the Rose-Marie Tea Room to greet their honorary president, Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., rector of St. Edward’s Hall.
A letter from the alumni of Rochester was read at the banquet concerning the Christmas dance to be held at the Sagamore Hotel, December 27. The music and entertainment will be furnished by Ray Fagan’s Keith-Orpheum orchestra.
WISCONSIN CLUB
Approximately seventy-five members of the Wisconsin Club were present at the initial meeting, Tuesday evening, October 8, in the north room of the Library. The club last year boasted a membership of one hundred and twenty-five. The enrollment this year is expected to exceed that of any preceding year.
Smokers, banquets, and a Christmas dance are being planned and a committee will be appointed at the next assemblage to decide upon definite dates for activities during the semester.
The officers are: John Voss, president; John Keefe, vicepresident; John Calhoun, secretary; and John Harrington, treasurer.
WRANGLERS CLUB
At the last regular meeting of the Wranglers Club which was held on Wednesday evening, October 9, the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., was again selected as faculty advisor for the organization. The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., was voted Honorary President.
Following the procedure, there was a discussion of new members.
Plans for the Club’s annual activity, inter-hall debating, were discussed by the members and coaching assignments were made.
Pat Ryan, John Wilson, and John Houlihan were appointed on an initiation committee, and Frank Noll, Tim Benitz, and Neil Hurley were designated as the Publicity Committee.
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB
The West Virginia Club held its first meeting on Thursday, October 3, in the basement of the Library. A discussion as to activities for the year- was taken up, followed by a short talk given by the president, Leo Kletzly. There were twelve new members present. It was decided that the next meeting would be held on October 30.
The officers for the year are: Leo Kletzly, president; James Malloy, vice-president; William Davis, secretai-y; Bernard Heitz, treasurer.
SPECTATORS’ CLUB
With a view to strengthening their numbers from the junior, sophomore, and possibly freshman class, the Spectators’ Club will hold an election of new members on November 7. Applications for membership, however, must be in the hands of the secretary, Robert M. Dinkel, 45 Sorin Hall, on oi- before October 30. Membership is open to the entire student body, and applications should state such qualifications of the applicant as are especially desirable in a member of an intellectual discussion group.	,
At the meeting held Thursday evening, Richard Sullivan discussed “Whistler as a Writer,” and John Dubuisson presented the various angles of the navy question between the United States and England.
142	The Notre Dame Scholastic
V’
0 NCE upon a time two Notre Dame men of your acquaintance started a collection. They collected hairpins, short pins, long pins, ten pins, and bone pins—any pins that had dropped from a woman’s head. For days, and weeks, and even months they garnered pins, and after a large pile had been saved one of the researchers took them all to the top of the tower- and threw them to the winds. And as they were carried by the wind the pins were formed into letters, and then into words. The words made a sentence, and the student read, “Lowly hairpins laugh at death, after a life spent next to nothing.” And from that day forth neither of these students has been known to receive more than six letters on the day that bids to bait dances are obtruded.
F
1 UNNI fellow- Nanovic, who was one of the researchers mentioned in the paragraph above, has laughed for the first time this year, and the echo rings from Freshman to Lyons, from Faribault to Palmerton. Spike McAdams, high pressure salesman of Sorin, reports that sales have exceeded all precedent, and with the modernistic trend of Rice’s cover to attract the stand sales this Juggler will be a sell-out. The cover, as you have noticed, is worth more than a second glance—the colors not only appeal to your eye, they reach out and hit it, and after you’re hit, and begin to investigate, you’ll agree with me that Bob has done something. Nanovic and Rice have a great deal in common: they both believe in the superiority of short men, neither* of them get up for breakfast, and both of them have shown their ability in the treatment of freshmen as comical.
IF you have ever felt that your life was without avail, that you have served no worthy purpose at all, consider the 8,100 eggshells which have been shattered every week in our dining hall. Were it not for us students any number of peaceful poultry would be thrown out of employment, their girlish cackle would no longer enliven the barnyard, and hundred of farmhouses would lose their picturesqueness with the passing of our need for 8,100 eggs a week. And freshmen—for no upperclassmens’ parents would be provincial enough to manifest interest in his grades— should your father remark about your quarterly report in an insinuatingly way, you can effectively awe him into his
usual passivity by wiring collect: But Dad We Eat 8,100 Eggs Here Every Week.
D
* VOCKNE directing practice from his car through a loud speaker, myself with an ache in every tooth, and Johnnie Roney with water on the brain—the university will soon be changing managements if this state continues. And we were just getting to like it, too. Mr. Oliver, who has made plows for the world, and a reputation for himself, was telling me the other day about the school back in the days after the Civil War, when half the boys thought Lee a tin god, and the other half thought more tin than god. Both factions having proven wrong, and students of today being more interested in footballs than in fusillades, Mr. Oliver and I are as one in hoping for a quick restoration of Rockne to his usual cheery good health.
p
* REMIER MacDonald has dropped over to talk business with Pres. Hoover, and brought his daughter along to learn something about American ideas of housekeeping. While he is over here, incidentally, he intends, if he has any spare time,' to pass around some papers and get the government to outlaw war. Now if he had ever studied history under Professor Hines he would remember Napoleon’s remark, “An army travels on its stomach.” Besides being very inconvenient mediums of transportation, stomachs can be regulated in various ways, and, according to Napoleon, their regulation will end all martial strife. Armies can’t fight if they are unable to travel to one another, so that by having the League of Nations provide international stomach pumps we shall never have to leave our dormitories for the rigors of dug-outs.
c
LEANING and pressing, as the newest of the services performed on campus, add another item to our independence of South Bend. If we could install a fleet of student driven cabs, have nightly vaudeville in Washington Hall, and maintain an exchange bureau for the convenience of those with social bugs, the attraction of the municipality would be negligible. Campus cleaning, however, has the disadvantage of most monopolies—and that’s why I’ve been wearing my room-mate’s suit for the past week.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
143
WHERE /HALL WE EC?
A question heard with increasing frequency these days is that which runs somewhat as follows: “Well, we’ve got the afternoon off. Where shall we go?”
In itself, a harmless enough question: in its consequences, which are usually, “go to the movies” or “sleep,” comparatively harmless: but, in its significance of a certain type of thinking, rather sadly indicative of a lack of concern with the main business we have in hand—the business of living.
College years should mean the putting on, as it were, of a new man; the transfoiming of a many times raw youth into a sensitive, thinking being, who couples with his youth the chastening, yet inciting knowledge, that he, while one in many, is nevertheless one out of many; and this “outness” is lent color by the added broad viewpoints he attains to while in college.
Now books and study are, of course, of paramount importance in the winning of this new armour; but, ranking with them, is that knowledge communicated to us through the still more articulate voice of Nature.
Today the word Nature might be said to be in almost ill repute: constant usage and reference to the word for purposes not always consonant with its truly exalted meaning, have lent it a savour of professionalism that would be actually rankling and repellant were it not for the innate grandness of the name.
By Nature we mean tossing leaves, and the calm, passive amusement of tree trunks; grass crackling under foot; the sun flattening long fields into fire; a curving road, a straight road, that lead over the hill and, beyond that, up and down another hill; stars pasted on the vault of the sky; the moon whitening fields of corn, drifts of leaves, tufts of grass, rippled glass waters, into sweetly troubled awareness of its presence.
And this is the Nature that has that something to tell us which is an integral part of our education and culture, that something which is held by many to be the whole of education and culture.
Now we will not always have such an opportunity to really know Nature and listen to her whispered words, as we have here at Notre Dame. Such an opportunity, when seen from the vantage point of the Whole, becomes nothing short of a sacred duty.	■
Then, too, we can always supplement our reactions with those of the great artists in literature, in music, in painting, and in philosophy.
Where we stand dumb and uncomprehending before the red symphony of a sunset, Keats and Jeffers have stood alert and responsive; it is our privilege to hear them tell of the outgrowth of their alertness and their responsiveness, and make it ours, in order that we may make the sunset (which is the heritage of the most abandoned idiot) more wholly ours; and, once finding it ours, know that something has been added to our being, something that will go with us to the facing of those eternal tasks that are performed in the shadows of breakfast and luncheon and dinner.
And now, though we may lay ourselves open to a charge of circuitous answering of a question, we hope we have given one reply to that Tuesday-Thursday query, “Where shall we go?”
—M. H. L.
/

144
The Notre Dame Scholastic
—John L. Nanovic
Stray Dogs
THERE was a time when there were no stray dogs, but when man’s “four-legged brothers” could roam about from one back yard to another without a passport, and without any fear of being raided by the officers of the law when they were congregated in a neighbor’s yard, exchanging stories. Then, on an unfortunate day, Mrs. Wensen, the “first lady’’ of the town, saw the neighbor’s dog chasing her prize cat down the alley, and promptly planned revenge. Through her husband’s influence, the town council passed an ordinance requiring all dogs to be chained, or confined to the owner’s premises, and thus with one stroke created the office of Town Dog Catcher and caused the problem of the stray dog.
The term “Stray Dogs” includes a variety of types. There is the stray dog that is just running around. His master loves him too well to confine the animal to the small limits of his chain; so he allows him to run about unchecked. This dog may be far from his master’s home at times, but he always returns to guard the house through rhe dark night, or whenever instinct warns him of danger. That is the type; the type of “the good old days” before regulation.
A second type of “stray dog” is the dog “leaving home.” Perhaps the food, or a leaky roof, or unsanitary plumbing has made him dissatisfied with his quarters. Perhaps his master has been cruel to him. Perhaps the climate does not agree with him. Whatever the cause, he decides to seek other quarters, and in the transition he becomes a “stray dog,” subject to all the honor and abuse, all the privileges and dangers, of his class.
The third class is a particular one; the “lost or stolen” dogs. There is no mistaking a dog of this group. He is different. He is distinguished. There is always about him an air of aloofness which seems to show that his present condition is an unfortunate circumstance, and that he is not a stray dog. He is to all appearances a king momentarily deprived of his crown.
The last class is the one which includes just “stray dogs”—said in a rather helpless manner. It is the class in which the riff-raff, or woof-woof, of dogdom has been kicked by the hard boot of man. It includes every dog without a claim on home, title or class. It is a haven for the “undesirables.” It is this class which is found in the dog pound, where all types of animals • are gathered and held until some redeemer claims one of the victims. In the hodge-podge of the pound is the dog hopelessly dejected, mourning his untoward lot, and grieving that his dreams should have so materialized. There is the innocent, gentle dog, swept on by the rush of circumstance, and thrown
there, a helpless piece. of wreckage. Then there is the soldier of fortune, the bold, brave, daring animal, going when and where fancy may direct, brazenly doing things none other dares, and even in this ignominous capture, still unbeaten, still defiant.
The stray dog continues to be a problem, although his outlook is very promising. Even as there was a time long ago when there were no stray dogs, there will come a time again when there shall be none. As the years roll by, the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals will most certainly face this great problem with some decision and settle it forever by the erection of a magnificent kennel which will be “home” to all stray dogs.
“A Chain is no Stronger...”
I REMEMBER, as a little boy, the grocery store on our corner. A man by the name of “Weston owned it. He was' a nice man, well-liked by all, and in turn, loving everyone. His white shirt was always rolled up above the elbows in a tight roll, and his striped apron, hung from.his neck, was never fully tied in the back. The strings would fly along after him as he hurried about his work, and swish and catch on things as he went around corners. I often went to his store for various articles, and always received the extra portion—the prunes, a bite of cheese, a hunk of meat, a piece of candy—that was his reward to dutiful children.
We moved away from that town, and the new surroundings and new friends kept me busy for a long time. Years passed before I went back to the old town, the old street, the old friends, and—the new store. It was a new store, modern and business-like. The kind old Weston was there no longer. The dull brown front of the store was there no longer. The ornate window display was there no longer. The front was now a brilliant yellow and green combination; the window was decked in a simple, spirited way, and a huge sign above proclaimed it one of a vast chain of United Grocery Stores.
Inside, the worn counter with its marks made by generations had been replaced by a brilliant white case in which were tempting displays of cold meats. Behind it, long, even rows of canned goods, neat stacks of boxed foods, sanitary boxes of dried fruits, and shining spice containers were accurately arranged and properly labelled. Large cards noted fractional prices, with smaller notations on quantities. Two propeller fans were humming overhead, and sunlight was streaming in through large, clean windows.	.	i
What a contrast! How different from the gloomy, musty, odorous atmosphere of the store of another year!
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
145
How changed from those thick wooden shelves, bending beneath the weight of varied goods, placed at random. There were no price tags on those. Each had its price kept in the owner’s head, and there were no fractions. Round figures were the rule, and the total bill would be shaped to an even figure, either by cutting down the price, if it was too high, or by adding a few “extras” to the list of goods if the price did not reach an even figure. Quite a different way indeed, for here was a newer method. Behind the spotless tops were immaculately clean men. They were men with their hair nicely combed; men with their white aprons newly laundered; men with their white shirt sleeves nicely rolled; men with smiles perfectly placed upon their faces. They were men with whom courtesy was a habit, and service a motto. They were men trained to give the customers satisfaction; to cater to them and to keep them satisfied; to bring them back again. No inane talk about the weather, no gossip about neighbors, no talk about elections, no tales to turn one to laughter, no personalities, not even little rewards to dutiful children, belonged -to them. Everything was done swiftly, accurately, systematically. The scale went down to one pound as evenly and perfectly as the clerk’s voice on the “anything else, sir?” The bell on the register rang out as inanimately as the “thank you, sir,” of him who gave the check to you, and as coldly formal as the “thank you, come again” of that automaton behind the cashier’s glass. Even the automatic “call again” sign as you swung the door open reminded you of that perfection you were leaving.
Yes, this was it. This was the great chain of modern business, and this—this automatic, impersonal cog—this was its weakest link!
The Professor Is Gone
Walter M. Langford
OR several days I have been thinking about that old bookshop in Pittsburgh—and about the professor. Of course, it all means nothing, or nearly so, to me, yet I cannot cease thinking of it.
I had gone to Pittsburgh that time to visit with friends and relatives. A certain afternoon I began a leisurely walk that eventually brought me into a side-street choked with little shops. I am sure you have wandered through such a street, peering with partly suppressed curiosity into the dusty windows of the interesting little shops, which seem crowded so closely together as to stifle one another.
I paused before an old bookstore and soon I was inside, talking with the girl in charge. She was a pretty girl, too pretty to be wasting her youth in such a dingy old place. Her hair was golden and wanted to curl, her eyes were large, dark, and trusting. The blue dress she wore pleased me; anything blue pleases me.
I wandered about the small shop for some fifteen minutes, the girl ever at my side to explain about this book or that. The place was crammed full of interesting books both new and. old, but mostly the latter. Presently I asked about first editions.
“Yes,” she replied with a fine smile, “we have some first editions, but I do not know much about them. Wait a moment and I’ll call the Professor.”	■
She disappeared into the back room and an old fellow,
obviously the proprietor and “Professor,” came out to bargain with me. He was some sixty or seventy years of age and was very stoop-shouldered. His hair was white and long uncut, his eyes faded and watery.
“You have some very nice things here,” I began, not without thinking of the girl.
He smiled and thanked me.
“You also have some first editions?” I inquired.
“Ah, yes,” he replied. “Come with me.”
He led me into the back room and approached a ponderous safe, which he opened after several twists of the dial. Thrusting an arm deep into the safe, he brought forth a book. This he carefully wiped with a rag and placed upon the table. Other books he produced in like manner, till finally no more remained in the safe. The two dozen or more volumes on the table represented first editions, rare editions, and editions valuable for other reasons.
“My fortune,” he said.
“Fortune is right!” I exclaimed, for I knew some of the books could command an enormous price.
“I keep them in the safe,” he went on, “for I would be ruined if they were stolen.”
“I should say so.”
He took up one ■ of the books and gazed at it reminiscently.
“These are all I have left,” he said slowly, “of what I brought with me from England.”
“Oh, you’re from the old country?”
“Yes, London.” His eyes wandered away and his look became distant in company with his thoughts.
“You have been here a good while?” I asked after a few seconds.	-
Slowly and reluctantly his gaze came back to me. “In this country? Eighteen years. Here in this place for sixteen.” He heaved a sigh, not of relief or of contentment, • but of sorrow, sadness, disappointment.
I had no need to ask if he liked America. He had the hopeless, discouraged appearance of a prisoner long confined on an unjust charge. I determined to change the subject, not wanting to dwell upon this phase of his life, the thought of which made him so unhappy. But he spoke again before I could divert the talk into more pleasant channels.
“How fine it would have been if I had never left London. All went well there, and success was quickly mine. In the whole city .no dealer in books did half so thriving a business as I, while no store in all England could boast a stock so complete as mine. It was glorious, almost perfect, and I was so happy with my Alice and our- little daughter. But I left that—and came here to this.”
I said nothing, for I had nothing appropriate to say.
“For three years my brother had been in America and always he wrote what a wonderful place it was, saying I was a fool for not coming over too. But I was prospering too much and foi- a long time I would not listen to him. Yet he wrote so much and told such wonderful things of this country that finally he made me believe I could do still better in America.”
His head drooped down upon his chest and he stood awhile in sorrowful contemplation. He sighed again and continued.
“I sold all, keeping only a few dozen of my most valuable books, and we came to New York. My brother caused me to invest all the money in a new publishing house which soon failed, leaving me here in this strange country with no business, no friends, and no money- except what I could get for my few precious books. I sold some of them and
146
The Notre Dame Scholastic
we came to Pittsburgh to start this little bookstore. How changed from my fine place and splendid business in London! And my brother who had told the wonderful stories of this country was himself so poor he could not even help me start this store. But he still wrote to friends back in England and shamed them for not hurrying to this country where, he said, success was free to all."
The old man paused again to meditate upon his unfortunate past. I still said nothing, feeling that this was his story and that any interruption of mine would only injure it.
“My wife Alice,” he resumed slowly, “did not last long after we came here. It was pneumonia that took her the second winter, and I was left alone with my little Connie. And we are still here in this same place. It was Connie you spoke with when you came in.”
“Yes, a very fine girl,” I said.
“My only comfort now,” he added.
We were silent for a time. Then I turned to the books on the table and asked:
“Why don’t you advertise these? I know of rich book hunters who would pay huge sums to get them. You could make enough to start a large bookstore, perhaps as fine a one as you had in London. And you could live in comfort the rest of your life.”
He smiled faintly and fondled one of the books like a proud father might fondle a son.
“No, I am old now and it is too late to start again. I shall sell them—yes, but only one or two at a time. That will provide for me until the time comes for me to die, and
I know that time can’t be far away. Maybe I can even save some of the best of the books for Connie and her Johnnie—that’s her fellow that runs his father’s grocery store down here on the corner. They are going to be married in a few months.”
For a long time we talked of books with extreme interest. His knowledge of old books was so extensive that he could justly be called a “Professor” in this field. It was evident that the little joy in his life came from his work, for as we talked he grew excited like a young boy and his watery eyes even glowed sufficiently to show that once they were brown.
By the time we had talked to our fullest content the afternoon was merging into evening. I finally bargained for one of his first editions—not a very valuable one—and he began to replace the others in the safe.
A small bottle marked “Arsenic” rested on the top shelf of the safe. I could not help seeing it, as I was standing only a few feet away. He knew I noticed it and, taking the bottle in his hand, he explained softly: “If anyone ever robs the safe and takes these books----”	.
Last week I returned to Pittsburgh, once more to visit with relatives and friends. It was more than two years since my previous visit, and early one morning I determined to seek out again this old bookstore. I was greeted by a stranger when I opened the door of the dusty little old shop. I asked if I might speak to the Professor. His face went solemn as he replied that the Professor was gone.
“Someone robbed the safe one night,” he began, and I fled, not wanting to hear more.
Stillness
No ivhispering noise is heard Above the lake, no sound Disturbs the stillness.
Reflected in the pool The moon shines doivn In all its fullness.
A flitting shadotv passes Notv above the mere; And a little splash Adds music to the waves As upon the sandy Shore they dash.
Deep in the forest a call ' Is heard , and rings Out far beyond.
The leaves on outspread Branches stir, frightened At the sound.
Noto the quiet reign again, And all the air is still.
Now the bird and beast
Alike retire deep
Within their homes	-
For evening’s rest.
Haunting man alone	z
Walks o’er the land,
And seeks he knows not what.	_
—Robert Anthony.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
147
5 PORTS
Fighting Irish Sink Navy’s Dreadnaught
Down Middies, 14-7, With Heavy Attack
Unleashing a powerful running offensive, Notre Dame, clad in traditional green, came from behind in the second quarter to turn back the powerful Navy Midshipmen, 14 to 7, in the Municipal stadium at Baltimore last Saturday.
Seventy thousand rabid fans saw
Manny Vezie
Navy score their only touchdown towards the end of the first quarter. They saw the Ramblers a few minutes later tie this score after a march of 62 yards down the field. They saw Notre Dame score the winning marker at the opening of the fourth quarter.
Most of all, they saw a fighting team, minus its courageous leader, race on to a decisive victory after defeat stared them in the face.
The team could not lose with their coach, Knute Rockne, at home in bed, propped up with pillows, listening attentively to every play as it came over the wire, mumbling here and there, “Give it to Brill, Frankie-boy,” or “Mullins could make it on a crossbuck.” But he knew his boys couldn’t hear him way down there in Baltimore.
The boys did hear him intuitively, however, and they replied with a hard fought, cleanly played victory over the Middies.
Navy made a concerted effort to stop the onslaughts of the shock troops and went even so far as to score on them after a Notre Dame fumble on the 33-yard line was recovered by Captain Koepke of the Navy. Line plunges netted a few yards and two passes from Bauer to Crane, and one, Spring to Bauer, put the ball within striking distance of the goal. Clifton finally crashed through center for the touchdown after three unsuccessful efforts.
Then out came the fighting shock troops and in went the regulars. From that stage of the game till the final whistle, Notre Dame had no doubts as co the superiority of its team.
Notre Dame received one of Bauer’s spirals on their own 38-yard
Marty Brill
line at the opening of the second quarter, and aided' by a 25-yard penalty for roughing, took it to the 46-yard line. Here Marty Brill, Mullins, and Eldei- took turns at advancing the ball during ' the steady march down the gridiron, stopping at the 13-yard line, where with three
Tim Moynihan
attempts they were unable to put the ball across.
On fourth down, Frank Carideo ran back from the line of scrimmage with Jack Elder sprinting across the field over the goal line, and tossed the ball to Elder for the tying touchdown. It was a most remarkable play and at the time the ball left Carideo’s hand he was down on one knee, borne there by three husky Navy forwards. It was a long slanting pass which Elder took without any difficulty, the Midshipmen secondary never attempting to molest him when Carideo had been pushed to the ground.
As the third period was waning, Navy tried desperately to score and Spring tossed a long pass, but Carideo came in fast, intercepted it on the run and carried it back to Navy’s 32-yard line.
From there it was easy sailing, for Marty Brill made seven and nineteen yards on two successive tries and as the quarter ended the ball rested on
148
The Notre Dame Scholastic
....I""...iiiniiiin»»tmiiiiiiitnnniiiittmmiiitiiiirH
1 First Downs:	e
E	Notre	Dame,	20.	E
E	Navy,	7.	=
i Passes Completed:	e
E	Notre	Dame,	4 of	15	for	18	E
E yards.	=
E	Navy, 7 of 18 for 62 yards.	=
s Yards from Scrimmage:	e
E	Notre Dame, 294 yards.	'	E
E	Navy, 39 yards.	1
=	Penalties:	e
=	Notre Dame, 70 yards.	E
E	Navy, 35 yards.	E
QuiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiifiiiiiiiiiiunB Navy’s nine-yard line. Mullins, after several short plunges, was able to dive over the Middies from the one-yard line for the winning counter.
Carideo kicked the goal for point after touchdown; This makes his fourth successive try without a failure this year.
Notre Dame had at least four chances to score, aside from those times when they actually put the ball over the line. With more experience at their command they might have added that many extra touchdowns.
The Notre Dame gridiron nomads presented a slashing, slithering attack that wrecked havoc with one of the most powerful teams the Navy has boasted of in many a year. The bewildering speed, delayed passes, and rapid plunges of the Ramblers were too consistent for Coach Bill Ingram and his strong Midshipmen outfit.
It would be a most difficult problem to select one outstanding performer in the contest, but let it suffice to say that Moon Mullins, Frank Carideo, Marty Brill and Jack Elder stood out among the backfield men with Captain Johnny Law, Ted Twomey, Manny Vezie, and Tim Moynihan of the forward wall playing a great game,, stopping the Navy thrusts on every occasion. Navy was able to garner but 39 yards from scrimmage.
Notre Dame—14		Navy—7.
Collins	LE	Crane
McNamara	LT	Bowstrom
Kassis	LG	Swan
Nash	C	Hughes
Metzger	RG	(c) Koepke
Donoghue	RT	Bryan
Conley	RE	Byng
Gebert	Q	Kohlhas
Schwartz	LH	Bauer
O’Connor	RH	Spring
Savoldi	F	Clifton
Notre Dame 			. 0 7 0 7—14
Navy 			. 7 0 0 0—7
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Colrick for Collins, Twomey for McNamara, Cannon for Kassis, Moynihan for Nash, Law (c) for Metzger, Leahy for Donoghue, Vezie for Conley, Carideo for Gebert, Elder for Schwartz, Brill for O’Connor, Mullins for Savoldi, Gebert for Carideo. Navy: Moret for Byng, Tschirgi for Clifton, Hagberg for Bryan, Beans for Crane, Toth for Spring, Clifton for Tschirgi, Spring for Toth, Bryan for Hag-
berg, Westhofen for Koepke, Binns for KohL has. Swan for Eddy, Byng for Beans, Crink-ley for Westhofen.
Touchdowns—Elder, Mullins. Clifton. Points after touchdowns—Carideo 2, Bauer.
Referee—Crowell (Swarthmore). Umpire— Thorp (Columbia). Head linesman—Fisher (Columbia). Field judge—Palmer (Colby).
REVENGE IS NOTRE DAME OBJECTIVE TOMORROW “Final score, Wisconsin 22, Notre Dame, 6.” That was the news last year but if Mr. Rockne and his crew of pilfering warriors are successful tomorrow when the Ramblers take on “Gloomy Glen” Thistlethwaite and his Wisconsin Badgers in Soldiers Field, revenge will be sweet.
This will be the first “home” game for Notre Dame and a very interesting contest is expected to be seen by practically the entire student body who will turn out en masse to cheer their team to victory.
Wisconsin is not the team it was last year. And to go further, they have nowhere near the potential strength they carried last season when they handed Notre Dame its first defeat of the season.
Wisconsin Misses Cuisinier
Bo Cuisinier, one of the headiest quarterbacks the Big Ten has seen in late years, is no longer playing with Wisconsin. He was a quick thinker, much on the lines of our own Frank Carideo, and he is a great loss to Thistlethwaite.
Sammy Behr, who played one of the, halves last season, has taken up Cuisinier’s position as signal-caller and with him in the backfield are Hal Rebholz, a veteran fullback, and Pacetti, right half. Bill Lusby, star back who will be remembered for his sensational run of 65 yards for a touchdown after receiving Iowa’s kickoff last season, is playing the other half with Pacetti.
Lusby is a dangerous triple-threat man and will have to be watched very carefully tomorrow. He is an excellent punter and a passer of rare skill.
Backfield Combination Ragged
Last week against Northwestern, in which the Wildcats defeated Wisconsin for the first time since 1892, this backfield combination was not so successful, carrying the ball only about one-fourth of the time and gaining little ground.
Wisconsin was victorious over Colgate, 13 to 6, in its first major game this season but here again their play was ragged and spotty. Colgate, sporting a highly touted outfit, counted three first'downs and a touchdown in the first few minutes of play.
One big help for the Badgers is a
little mite of a tackle named Milo Lubratovich, who weighs only 210 pounds. Lubratovich was in most of the games last season until a broken leg forced him out. Up to that time, however, he was forming into a great peg in Thistlethwaite’s forward bulwark. This year, he began where he left off and has developed into a powerful defensive tackle.
Strong Passing Attack
Moose Krueger is snapping the ball and Captain Johnny Parks and Leit-han are at guard with H. Smith playing the other tackle. Wisconsin is not lacking in fleet ends for they have Jen Jenson, George Casey, Ebert Warren, Milt Gantenbein, and Lew * Smith, all experienced men, from whom to choose.
A passing attack with a strong offensive will be the opposition, the Ramblers will be forced to combat tomorrow. Rockne’s boys will be out for blood, to atone for the defeat handed their brothers last year and a friendly little struggle is looked for.
Perhaps one of the most interesting highlights of the game will be that Tom Lieb, who coached the Wisconsin line so well that they were a vital factor in last season’s defeat, will be on the Notre Dame bench this time telling them just what to expect from his former pupils.
RESERVES WIN INITIAL VICTORY
With last Saturday’s 12—7 win over Western State Normal at Kala- . mazoo, safely tucked away, the Notre Dame “B” team will stage a doubleheader Saturday while the varsity squad is facing Wisconsin, in Chicago. Part of the outfit will be pitted against Ferris Institute at Big Rapids, Mich., while the other section of the “B” team will oppose the Michigan State Normal school squad at Ypsilanti, Mich.
Under the guidance of Bill Jones, che Notre Dame “B” team handily defeated the Western State Normal squad last Saturday, scoring two touchdowns and keeping the ball in the enemy’s territory throughout the major part of the game. Heavy penalties kept the Notre Dame eleven from further scoring; a total of 200 yards were assessed against them.
Shortly after the second quarter opened, Bailie, Notre Dame end, caught a 30-yard pass and skirted the left side of the field for a touchdown. In the third period, Cronin, Notre Dame halfback, speared a pass
The Notre Dame Scholastic
149
VAL BLATZ BREWING COMPANY I With an exclusive flavor
that's refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
Milwaukee, Wis.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO. MILWAUKEE, WIS.
CHICAGO ICE STARS USE CARTIER FOR PRACTICE
A squad of sixteen members of the Chicago Blackhawks, Windy City representatives in the National Hockey League, will conclude their 10-day training period on Cartier Field next Thursday, under the directions of Tom
Shaughnessy, a Note Dame graduate, the manager of the Blackhawks.
The practices which started last Tuesday on Cartier Field, are finished before the regular football sessions begin. The workouts consisting of setting-up exercises and general calisthenics are devoted to putting the players in trim for the coming hockey season.
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot
Tamale
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 327 North Michigan Street
QiiiiniiiifiuiiiiiiiniiniuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiliniQ
I Notre Dame Students i
E When in the city, drop into our 1 = store and browse around.	E

Complete line of SPORTING GOODS including the latest in SPORT TOGGERY. Sweaters, Leather Coats, Slickers, etc.
I
/
i । THE “REGO”STORE i E I 113 N. Main St.	i
E Coen Evenings till 8 E
FlinMiiimiiuitiiiiutiuniuHiKiniitiiitiuiiiiinitiimiiuiiuiiiniiiiiifil
QiiiiiiiriiiniitiiitiiHiiiiiiniiiiiiuiini..	q
|	Take Care ,of Your Feet	e
|	dr. j. i McKinney	I
1	Registered Podiatrist	i
=	(Foot Ailments)	|
E	Open Sunday and Evenings	=
E	by Appointment.	E
I " ( i
:	Phone 2-1840 for Appointment	;
:	313 PLATT BUILDING	=
E	Wayne and Michigan	E
qou can see and feel the d ifference -Nunn-Bush
cAnide-Fashioned Oxfords
150
The Notre Dame Scholastic
heaved from the 40-yard line and ran unmolested for the remaining 10 yards to the goal.
‘‘Kazoo” Normal scored in the closing minutes of the game after the victors had held them for three downs.
Normal was held to two first downs and their squad failed to complete any forward passes. Notre Dame lads, however, completed seven passes out of nine attempts.
A heavy schedule faces the “B” team for the rest of the season. The first game at home will be played on Cartier Field against the Wisconsin reserves on October 26. Two other games are also scheduled on that date.
CROSS-COUNTRY SEASON OPENS TOMORROW
Eight members of the cross-country squad, headed by Coach John P. Nicholson and Senior Manager Kennedy, left this afternoon for Evanston, where tomorrow morning at 10 o’clock they will open the 1929 season in a quadrangular meet with the teams of Northwestern, Illinois and Wisconsin Universities.
' The team has been showing better form, in its daily workouts, lately, according to Coach Nicholson, and although he hardly expects it to
measure up to those of the past few years, he does believe the team will make a good showing in tomorrow’s meet.
Howery and Wilson, graduates of last year’s freshman squad, have been turning in consistently good times in the recent time trials, and upon them rest Notre Dame’s hopes of a first place. Joe Quigley, one of the veterans of last year, has also been showing good form and is expected to be among the leaders tomorrow.
Notre Dame’s opponents in this meet represent the cream of the Big Ten cross-country squads this year, and they are generally rated as the best in the Middle West. It is a hard meet for a “green” team so early in the season, but will give the new members of the squad experience that should aid them materially in later-contests.
The race tomorrow will be run over the Northwestern Unversity course along the lake front in Evanston. The distance will be three and one-half miles instead of the usual five miles.
Coach Nicholson has not decided on who will start in tomorrow’s test, but indicated that the line-up will include Quigley, Howery, Wilson, Biggins, McConville, Cavanaugh, Connors and Bauers.
It is expected that a captain for the 1929 season will be elected immediately before the meet. Joe Quigley and Jim Biggins are the only veterans back this year, and one of them will probably receive the honor. Both are Juniors and have another year of Varsity competition.
INTERHALL SCORES CLOSE IN WEEK’S COMPETITION
The second week’s competition in the interhall football league found vast improvements in the play of the teams. Heavy scoring was not in evidence but keen defensive play marked the majority of the games.
Morrissey and Off-Campus played what were perhaps the most impressive victories in their respective groups. These two teams are tied for first place in each league but upsets in the near future may occur and it is problematical if both squads will retain their top position.
George Koegan, director of assignments, has announced that the games this Sunday have been postponed until Monday and Tuesday afternoons, because of the influx of the students to the Wisconsin game tomorrow.
(Inter-hall Results on Page 155)
Sophomores!
Cheer! Cheer! for Old Notre Dame
The very latest in novelties—A musical powder box that plays the “Notre Dame Victory March” when the lid is off. The
box is beautifully decorated pictured in Blue and Gold, for a souvenir of the Sophomore Cotillion. Specially priced at____________________

with the dome Just the thing
Eisi
Watch Cc
h.iQ
The Notre Dame Scholastic
151
H11HII11H11H111111111II111111M1111II11H1111111111111H
T&e rBest Call of All
There are many meanings for the word “call” in the college boy’s vocabulary. First is the call for higher learning, his reason for coming to college . . . then there is the call to dinner, which he has known since cradle days . . . the class roll call with which he is familiar every school day .. . and the season’s call to football practice which stirs his athletic veins.
But the best call of all is the telephone call home. To hear the voices of mother and dad puts new life into his academic routine. To talk with them is like a stimulus which sends him back to his studies, his practices, his social duties, in a refreshed frame of mind.
Af<z^e it a pleasant habit to talk home once every week
Charges may be reversed to the home telephone
MAX ADLER
INC.
MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
I	Indiana	i
I	Bell Telephone	i
J	Company	j
152
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ii unit t mini min mini i111 mi i mimim minim mu Q Qiiiiiimiiimmiiiimiiiiiitnimiiiiiiniiiiiimimiiiniimmmiinmiimimiiimtmimmiiitiiir|^
THE N. D. MAN’S	f \ THE OLIVER
FLORIST SHOP	j | BARBER SHOP j
| s	A. M. MYERS, Prop.	1
—0—	=
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST , . i |
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
SERVICE
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere	|	s
on Short Notice.	=	|
b |	205 W. Washington Avenue
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.	1 I	THE OLIVER HOTEL
TELEPHONE 3-5149	E j	Phone 3-7171
ifiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiimiimmmiuiiiiiiiiiiiiumiiiiimiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimuiiiiiiiQ Pliinnimimmi........tuutitumi...............
Starting Saturday
Another Record Breaker
“SALUTE”
with George O’Brien and*Helen Chandler and
the Army-Navy Game as a \ Climax
GRANADA\
The Students Favorite Theatre
The Notre Dame Scholastic
153
j DeLUXE SERVICE I 5 Parlor Car and	|
1 Dining Car Trains !
1	From	1
i	SOUTH BEND	E
:	to	E
I	CHICAGO	j
|	For detailed information	=
j	call the South Shore Line	E
5	ticket agent	E
I	CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE	i
1	' & SOUTH BEND	|
5	RAILROAD	I
Qmmii >i tut iiiimiiiiimmmimiiiiiiimimmitiiiimmmimiiiiiimiii mi i mini imiiiminmiiQ j	WANTED!	|
j	Experienced	|
j	Salesmen for |
I	Saturdays	|
I	GILBRO’S	I
=	FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE	E
|	330 South Michigan-Street	j
A Unit Presentation that’s built for entertainment ‘Skyscrapers’ with
JACK and KAY SPANGLER and Buddy Page, Cooper and Clifton, Rosemarie Marston, Ray Colman and
Eight Broadway Flappers
and
ZEKE LEE’S TEN DECKHANDS
A vivid portrayal in Scene, Song & Dance, depicting the joys and fun of roof gardens.
^Qiiiiiiimiiiiimiimiiiiimiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiimiiiimmiimiiiimmiitmiiitmmimuiiitmiimfa]
I R. K. 0.	I
PALACE |
| Sunday, Monday I j and Tuesday !
ON THE SCREEN -J
A New Slant to = the Eternal .	=
Triangle!	i
Which woman does a = man love best? The \ one he won—or the one = he lost? The one who = lives in his house, or e the one who lives in his i memory?	e
“Whispering 1 Winds” |
with ■	_=
Patsy Ruth Miller j
Malcolm McGregor I
Eve Southern	e
| Coming Wednesday i
I 3 Moore Bros. |
|	Tom-Owen-Matt	[
e in an intriguing story of Life as we j
I	live it, in '	i
I “Side Streets” |
I	ALSO.	|
I 5 Big Acts of |
I	Vaudeville	|
JJliiinimiuiiiiiiiiiiiniiuiumiiniiiiiumiiumiHUiiiiiiinuiiiniiniiiiiuiimiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiui Q
154
The Notre Dame Scholastic
QtitHiaiitiatHiaaaaaaitiiaaaaaiiiiiHiaiaiaaaiiHHiittiaiaataaaatiitiiiiiaaiiiiataaiaiiatHiiiiiitiaiiaaitiiiiiiiif^
[	HELLO MEN!	[
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA |
=	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 North Main Street South Bend,, Indiana
ihhiii...............................at....Hiatal
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
Burberry Overcoats in smart blanket-lined tweeds and the famous warmth-zuithout-w eight fleeces are note on display.
$85 and $90
Mount Rock Fleeces $50
1 WE DO OUR OWN BAKING 1
I SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP |
1	West Washington Ave.	1
Plmiaiaaa aiiHaaaniiiaaaatitaaaaataaHii imiuiuiniiimmtaiiai iiiiiinininitii iiaaatatitaiiaaaaaa aa aaaaaataQ
IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
[•V11 a a a । a ai a a a a a a a a lit a n a a ai a a a a a aa a a a a aaaa a a a atsata a iiaia a i a 11 n a a a a 11 a i a«t a a 1111 a a a i a a u n । a a a 1111a a 1। a ■ i j t11j* । > > p
| Notre Dame I
i	vs. '	i
J	Wisconsin	i
i	Order your copy of the Sunday	j
j	News-Times from	your news-	|
I	dealer now.	I
|	Complete coverage by writers	|
I	and photographers.	|
I	THE	!
|	NEWS-TIMES	|
|	“First in Sports”	|
£}a>iii>miaiiiiaiiiaaaii(iimami(aimaiattaiaaaiaaiaaaaaiiaaataaiia8aa>aaaaaaiaaaaaiaaamaiaaiiiaiaiaaaaaaitiii^3
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
The
Notre Dame Scholastic.
155
* '
RESULTS OF INTER-HALL GAMES PLAYED SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13
Morrissey, 13; St. Edward’s, 0
In triumphing over St. Edward’s, Morrissey displayed the finest form to date. The infant entry in the league was wobbly and only occasionally did it show any strength in staving off the attack of the winners.
Swanke paved the way for the first score when he broke through and blocked an attempted St. Edward’s punt. In quick succession two passes netted seven points when Chevalier passed to Norton for a touchdown and point after touchdown by the same route.
Towards the close of the game a hurried lateral from St. Edward’s quarterback was intercepted by Shean, who raced across for the final score.
Walsh, 0; Howard, 0
The game between Walsh and Howard to determine the supremacy of Group II, found neither at the head of the heap after four periods of unsuccessful endeavor.
Howard worked deeply into scoring territory the first period, but lost its advantage on loose playing. Here they threatened to score. A blocked punt was recovered on Howard’s 13-yard line, but, soon after, Rigney’s drop-kick failed and was recovered by Howard.
Freshman, 7; Brownson, 6
Early in the game a blocked kick put Brownson in a position to score, and a pass from O’Donnell to halfback Thompson negotiated the remaining distance to the goal. Freshman blocked the attempt for the extra point and with this came victory.
After a number 'of successful passes had brought the ball near the Brownson goal line Poynton plunged over for a touchdown. A successful forward was good for the extra point and this terminated the scoring for both teams.
Sophomore, 0; Corby, 0
Sophomore displayed more power- than Corby but lacked the necessary punch when in scoring range. Corby fought a very creditable uphill battle and turned back every dangerous thrust of the opponent, but was in woeful need of offensive strength to carry them forward.
The second year men threatened frequently but on every occasion Corby’s defense stiffened and held Sophomore for downs.
As the final period waned quarterback Rahaim of Corby made a desperate attempt to score by intercepting a Sophomore pass with a clear field ahead of him, but the intended receiver jarred the ball loose from Rahaim’s arms.
Off-Campus, 12; Carroll, 6
Carroll got off to a fine start early in the game when Malone cleverly dodged his way through a broken field to a touchdown.
This brilliant performance kept Carroll in the lead until the closing minutes of the first half when Kozak hurled a long, beautiful pass to Beesley for a touchdown. This play was easily the most outstanding of the day.
Walsh played a fine game at right tackle for Off-Campus, frequently hurling the opposing backs for losses. He scored the running touchdown after breaking through and blocking a punt. Kozak’s accurate passes twice found a receiver who scored, but one play was called back. His defense play was also excellent.
Lyons, 2; Badin, 0
Forfeit game. Badin failed to appear.
(Interhall Standings on Page 160)
A Publix Theatre
fOLFAY
X* THEATREyw
Home of Paramount Pictures
Saturday
thru.
Tuesday
A new and more than ever adorable Dolores Costello disclosed as an emotional actress of .convincing power in a new love drama.
DOLORES COSTELLO in
“Hearts in Exile”
A Warner Bros.
Vitaphone All-Talking Romance with
GRANT WITHERS and Geo. Fawcett
Wednesday _______ thru ____________ Friday
Quiver and quake to the mad melodies of “Honky Tonk.” Sophie sings “I’m Doing What I’m Doing For Love,” “Some One of These Days,” etc.
Sophie Tucker
The Last of the
Red Hot Mamas in
“Honky Tonk”
A Vitaphone All-Singing Picture with
LILA LEE, GEO. DURYEA and Audrey Ferris
156
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE SOUTH BEND I
CLEARING HOUSE BANKS i
Indiana Trust Company
—0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
1	122 N. Main St.	1
1 SODAS	PAPERS 1
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—and—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M. .
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
| Shoes for the | | Occasion |
I	IN BLACK PATENT . . I
I	OR	I
j	SOFT DULL CALF	J
I	WALK - OVER	|
|	Shoe Store	j
I	111 S. MICHIGAN	j
B-tllUlillllllllllllllltllltilllillltllltllllUlllIllIllllllUlllllllllllIltlllllltllllllllllltttf ttlllllllillt ItllltQ |«]ffnfccrtfHtirfiiffnfi!tiffiiiiiiiiiiiiniiif iiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiititiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiuui tintiii tntHtiiiiiiiiii gj
I BEACON	I
|	;=^SHOES====	i
|	“Touchdown!”	=
E ..here’s a brogue that hits the line for i
E	a big gain every time	1
= ..new modified toe, new wing tip, all t i i	leather heels....full of pep and style	e
e	as a College Prom! Chuck full of	e
|	“go” as a touchdown	1
I	THE TOUCHDOWN	I
I	$£ I
E	Plenty hot! In nut brown,	E
E	and black calf-skin.	:
I ■ BEACON SHOE I |	STORE	|
j 114 W. Washington Ave. |
I	5	I
Q'liiimiitiiuiiiiiiiiiiititiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiinuittiiiittiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiufZl
The Notre Dame Scholastic
1-57
❖ 11)H11J11111J J )| 1111 | ❖ | On Down the Line | ❖ I 111111111111111111111 ❖
. . . University of Detroit won its 18th consecutive victory Friday . . . Amos Alonzo Stagg of Chicago beat his former pupil . . . Pat Page of Indiana . . . 13 to 7 . . . Indiana has defeated Chicago only once in 19 games . . . Moon Mullins carried the ball 24 times from scrimmage last week against the Midshipmen . . . totaled 139 yards . . . that’s average of approximately 5.8 yards each time . . .
. . . Grover* Cleveland Alexander, famous Phillies pitcher, turned in 30 or more victories for three seasons . . . the most—33 in 1916 . . . Thirty-one states are now affiliated with National Boxing Association . . .
Here’s a football player whose heart is on the right side instead of the left . . . He is Raymond Richard of the University of Nebraska Corn-huskers who worked' out at Notre Dame prior to ther victory over Syracuse, 13 to 6 . . .
.	. Dazzy Vance, Brooklyn’s zip-
artist, sheds ten pounds when he pitches a hard game . . . Contender, a trotter was appraised at $125 at auction in New York City two years ago . . . He has five victories to his credit already this season . . . averaged 2:06 for sixteen heats . . . Italy is slowly but surely becoming a sporting nation . . . auto and bike-racing are chief interests . . . soccer, basketball and track have their place along with the manly art of boxing . . .
. . . Marty Brill was given the ball
only 9 times against the Navy ... He averaged 7 yards each occasion . . . a very creditable showing, indeed . . . Knoxville would like to return to Southern Association . . . Mobile is the team. wishing to sell its franchise . . . Swarthmore college is raising a $200,000 endownnent fund . . . that’s to help support the teams . . . can’t depend on the gate receipts . . .
. . . William and Mary is playing all of its home games at night . . . Southern Methodist has two 200 pounders in first string backfield . . . Stephen Farrell, who will retire next spring from active duty as coach of Michigan’s track team, was the world’s champion half-miler years ago . . . Farrell twice won the Sheffield event in the Caledonia games . . . purse for that is $15,000 . . .
A bowl of Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes with milk or cream makes you “sit up
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
and take notice.”
They are so much crisper. And what a flavor! It’s the famous flavor of Pep. As you eat each spoonful remember that you are getting the nourishment from the wheat. Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity or campus restaurant.
PEP
BRAN FLAKES
158
The Notre Dame Scholastic
KUPPENHEIMER
GOOD 0LOTHES
the new
Button Down Collar
Shirt
By Wilson Bros.
A smartly styled shirt, made of genuine oxford cloth, designed and tailored for University men; it has already been declared an important style factor in the eastern Universities. You’ll like it, too!
Ask to see it.
$?.5O
117 So. Mich.
I AN INVESTMENT j
| IN GOOD APPEARANCE |
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ ❖	BY H. A. S. JR.	❖
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ••• ♦♦♦
Whatever else the World Series may have proved or disproved about the merits of the teams engaged, to my mind it proved one thing most conclusively: that the Athletics are “great competitors,” money players, or call them what you will. When any team can rise to the occasion as the A’s did in the last two games of the series, they will go down in the history of sport as true “great competitors.”
I
V *♦* ♦♦♦
All of which will lead to the query: Well, what is a “great competitor?” The reason we put the term in quotes is because several writers, much more eminently qualified to do so,have used this term in the same sense in which we do. But to get back to the question; a “great competitor,” is one who, regardless of his ability, rises above his norm or standard of play when the occasion demands. Do not confuse a “great competitor” with a great athlete. A “great competitor” is one who may be a very mediocre athlete, but who upon occasion rises above his own standard of play. F. Morgan Taylor of Grinnell, sometime Olympic 400 meter hurdle champion, is a great competitor. To come somewhat closer to home, John Chevigny and Fred Collins are great competitors, as also was one John “Clipper” Smith.
V *♦* V
Every Saturday has seen a number of real upsets thus far. Georgia, trampled on by Oglethorpe, rose in her might to send the Yale Bulldog back to New Haven with his tail between his bowed legs; Fordham drank deep after a three yeai- drought, when the wearers of the Maroon triumphed over the much vaunted Violet of N. Y. U., and sent several thousand commuters to the Bronx onto the field to rip up, not one but both goal posts, and thence to the more civilized sections of Gotham, there to sing the glory of the Ram; and no one expected Brown, rated as one of the lowliest of the major teams on her early season showing, to beat Princeton. Oh, there was a high and unexpected old time in several quarters Saturday night.
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME:—Alton K. Marsters, captain of this year’s Dartmouth football team, who received All-America recognition in his sophomore year, who sustained a leg injury'last year that caused him to see the game from the bench, who is known as the Green Ghost of Dartmouth, who is one of the greatest stop and go runners in modem football history, who has just led his Greeen Juggernaut to its third consecutive triumph, and who has scored 78 points this season.
Youth is not always served. Saturday, Arthur “Whitey” Michelson, of the Cygnet A. C., won the annual Columbus Day marathon from Port Chester to New York and return. Whitey is well in his thirties, and Clarence DeMar, who placed second, was running when most of us were learning to walk.
❖ ..
Last week it was fifty-fifty, with Syracuse losing to Nebraska, and Pitt trouncing West Virginia. Tomorrow we pick California to beat Penn, Army to beat Harvard, and Cornell to trim the Princeton Tiger’s ears.
Notre Dame Scholastic
• 159
at its best... in.
a pipe
MEN’S preference ’ for a man’s smoke—the pipe—is plenty positive. But do you know why? We’ll tell you.
First, pipe tobacco’s different— for instance, Edgeworth. Second, tobacco smolders as it should in a pipe. And third, these mean you get more satisfaction—greater relish of the good old savory burley, soothing fullness of rich smoke.
There’s even a fourth reason: you like good company. The pipe-smoking brotherhood is that.
Tobacco’s at its best in a pipe. It gets a chance to be itself there—to loosen up as it comes to life, to expand and take in air and glow. Only the choicest leaves get that chance, moreover, for pipes tell the truth about tobacco. Choice leaves, choice blends, and mighty careful handling. Edgeworth comes up through eleven distinct processes before we’re willing to pass it on to you.
If you keep on missing all this, that’s your fault—for we’re waiting to send you your first pipefuls of Edgeworth. See the coupon? Fill it out, get a good pipe and the postman will bring you a neat little glad-to-meet-you packet of good old Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos—selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “PlugSlice”—15^pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
[-----------------------------
j	LARUS & BRO. CO.,	I
<	Richmond, Va.	{
I	I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try !
!	it in a good pipe.	I
■	I
■	I
| Name.-	- - |
I	I
।	1
■ Street —■ - — -	-	- — - I
■	I
J	I
I Town and State ■	■ — I
J Now let the Edgeworth come! v । 1______________________________ J
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE INTHE UNITED STATES
Shutter Mouse
Suits s40, s45, s50 Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	;
(Thhvtcv Mouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
:	The character of the suits and	:
r	overcoats tailored by Charter House	=
will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER
On the Corner
Inc.
Michigan and Washington
BEAUTIFUL ALAMAC CARDS MAKE SELLING A PLEASURE
Selling ALAMAC Christmas Greeting Cards is an easy, pleasant way for college men to make money. This distinguished line opens every desirable door. Intelligent selling plan, sample book of personal cards and dollar box assortment start you off to Christmas profits. FREE SAMPLES.
The Alamac Company sANewTork
Dept. CW—6 Varick Street—New York
160
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTERHALL STANDINGS Group I.
	G.P.	Won	Lost	Pct.
Morrissey			2	2	0	.1000
Lyons 			2	1	0	.1000
Sophomore _		2	1	0	.1000
St. Edward’s		2	0	1	.000
Corby 			2	0	1	.000
Badin 			2	0	2	.000
	Group	II.		
	G.P.	Won	Lost	Pct.
Walsh 			2	1	0	.1000
Howard			2	1	0	.1000
Off-Campus .		2	1	0	.1000
Brownson			2	0	1	.000
Freshman			2	0	2	.000
Carroll 			2	0	2	.000
SAMUEL SPIRO & CO., South Bend, Indiana.
1
SAWYER'S Rainwear ZEPHYR-WEIGHT

■ he key ILXJI to highest scholarship honors is brought nearer when you are aided by good health. Shredded Wheat—every day—keeps your mind active and your body fit. Make it a habit. Shredded Wheat
All the bran of the whole wheat. Easy to digest
IN this new and ultra smart line of Sawyer’s “Forain” Zephyr-weight rainwear, carefully dressed college men and women everywhere have at once discovered their ideal wet weather garment.
This lightest weight waterproof clothing is made of balloon cloth, rendered absolutely waterproof and windproof by the famous Sawyer Process. Street coat weighs only 20 oz.
FROG BRAND SLICKERS
These justly famous oiled garments have been supplying the nation with snug warm comfort in wettest weather since1840. In addition to their reputation for rugged serviceability, Frog Brand Slickers may now be had in a wider range of models that possess snap and good looks. Buttons or buckles and your choice of colors.
See them at your favorite shops. H.M. SAWYER^ & SON EAST CAMBRIDGE.---------MASS
Ofires.
V»w York. N.Y. Chicago Ui- St. Low*. M*. San Antonin T»w
The Notre. Dame Scholastic
161
EJ...
Why not be Modem Cook ELEC tncally
Indiana and Michigan Electric Company
227 West Jefferson Street
if
k
Have You Ever Seen Watches Made?
We invite you to come out next week and go through our plant. Here you will see some of the finest automatic machines, and also see how watches are made, beginning with the flat steel and ending with the finished watch.
You will also see one of the most unique retail stores in the country, selling Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry, Silverware, Glassware, China, Leather Goods, Lamps, and hundreds of other items.
Remember—open house next week and an invitation to all to come out.
iHiiiiiiiimiiiHmimmiinmmiiiiiiimiii|
South Bend Watch Company
Store Hours	e j Qf	Plenty of
8 until 6	Parking Space
Saturday until 9	•* vVtlXCt. KJLxJI V	Limit
1720 Mishawaka Ave.	■
ImmmtmmimiiMMMiHnmHHMMHMH’HMHHM mimiiiiiiimiimummimmimimiimmiMiiiimiiiHn iiiiiiiiiuiiiiii ihihhiii mini miimm«*>>«tn nm mu mimmt mm
162
Notre Dame Scholastic
topcoats
fall topcoats in herring-bone weaves — diagonal weaves and check patterns, tailored in smart raglan shoulder and regular models, both loose enough for comfort and trim enough for smartness, the coats now in favor at new havenprinceton - amherst and Cambridge.
adler brothers
