A MAN'S BEST FRIEND IS HIS
SPORTCOAT
Time was when light weight o	o
sport coatings were too fragile for fine tailoring. But, you’ll find that today’s sport coats are tailored with the finesse and discipline of a good suit. We have a handsome selection of these friends-of-man now at the Campus Shop ... in year round weights and feather-lights for warm weather wear. Why not drop in soon and see them?
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY
PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Any day now, spring will awaken from her winter’s sleep and everything will be bright and beautiful and growing again. Spring is the best time of year for new clothes . . . they help us all forget the cold hard winter. Get what you need for now . . . and Easter . . . and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. No carrying charge, of course.
March. 6, 1959
Oil JfaJsMnan
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.”)
THE TRUE AND TYPICAL CASE OF CHATSWORTH OSCEOLA
You all know, of course, that every engineering senior is receiving fabulous offers from dozens of corporations, but do you know just how fabulous these offers are? Do you have any idea how widely the corporations are competing? Let me cite for you the true and typical case of Chatsworth Osceola, a true and typical senior.
Chatsworth, walking across the M.I.T. campus one day last week, was hailed by a man sitting in a yellow convertible studded with precious gem stones. “Hello,” said the man, “I am Norwalk T. Sigafoos of the Sigafoos Bearing and Bushing Company. Do you like this car?”
“Yeah, hey,” said Chatsworth.
“It’s yours,” said Sigafoos.
“Thanks, hey,” said Chatsworth.
“Do you like Philip Morris?” said Sigafoos.
“Of corris,” said Chatsworth.
“Here is a pack,” said Sigafoos. “And a new pack will be delivered to you at twelve-minute intervals every day as long as you shall live.”
“Thanks, hey,” said Chatsworth.
“Does your wife like Philip Morris?” said Sigafoos.
“She would,” said Chatsworth, “but I’m not married.”
“Do you want to be?” said Sigafoos.
“What American boy doesn’t?” said Chatsworth.
Sigafoos pressed a button
on the dashboard of his convertible and the trunk opened upand out came a nubile maiden with golden hair, flawless features, a perfect disposition, and the appendix already removed. “This is Laurel Geduldig,” said Sigafoos. “Would you like to marry her?”
“Is her appendix out?” said Chatsworth.
“Yes,” said Sigafoos.
Speaking of engineers, the Philip Morris company makes a Mier cigarette that's engineered to please the most discerning of biter smokers—Marlboro, the cigarette with better “makin's." More flavorplus more filterequals more cigarette!
“Okay, hey,” said Chatsworth.
“Congratulations,” said Sigafoos. “And for the happy bride, a pack of Philip Morris every twelve minutes for the rest of her life.”
“Thanks, hey,” said Laurel.
“Now then,” said Sigafoos to Chatsworth, “let’s get down to business. My company will start you at S45,000 a year. You will retire at full salary upon reaching the age of 26. When you start work, we will give you a three-story house made of bullion, complete with a French Provincial swimming pool. We will provide sitter service for all your children until they are safely through puberty. We will keep your teeth in good repair, and also the teeth of your wife and children unto the third generation. We will send your dentist a pack of Philip Morris every twelve minutes as long as he shall live ... Now, son, I want you to think carefully about this offer. Meanwhile, here is ten thousand dollars in small, unmarked bills, which places you under no obligation whatsoever.”
“It certainly seems like a fair offer,” said Chatsworth. “But there is something you should know. I am not an
engineer. In fact, I don’t go to M.I.T. at all. I am a poetry major at Harvard. I just came over here on a bird walk.”
“Oh,” said Sigafoos.
“I guess I don’t get to keep the money and the convertible and Laurel now, do I?” said Chatsworth.
“Of course you do,” said Sigafoos. “And if you’d like the job, my offer still Stands.”	© 1M», Mu Shulman
RepesctMfon '
Dear Editor:
In the editorial, “Tonight,” (ScholasTic, Feb. 20); I find many controversial remarks. There is one statement that * particularly touches a nerve — “The present class at Notre Dame cannot di- ’ vine any reason why it should express in a body its allegiance to the United States.”	*
Notre Dame has proved in each of the wars of the past century that her sons have given their full measure of devo- r tion and sacrifice for the American way j of life. Notre Dame need not take a back seat to any university in the land when the loyalty of her graduates is measured. The senior class may have its chance, all too soon, to accept or ignore the chai-lenge forced on it by a rapidly changing world situation.
I am sure that the future leaders of < Russia have no qualms in declaring their wholehearted dedication to their cause and to the destiny of the Soviet Union. ‘ If the conclusions which you make are true, some would be led to believe that we are lacking in this respect in the United States.
It is not difficult to draw a comparison between the apathy indicated in your article and the apathy which contributed to the decline and fall of the Roman Empire. May it never be said that the courage, vigilance, and patriotism, which built this nation in the 18th and 19th century was lost in the 20th century.
Whether we like it or not, the United States has been thrust into a position of world leadership. Whether our students appreciate it or not, Father Sorin’s call for Notre Dame leadership in America is particularly needed in this atomic age.
It is reassuring that the vast majority of seniors, with whom I enjoy close daily ,f* contact, profess by their actions the true spirit of Notre Dame — a tradition initiated by Father Sorin, reaffirmed by Father Corby on the battlefield at Gettysburg, and attested to by the Sacred Heart Church plaques listing the hun- ’ dreds of Notre Dame men who gave their lives for their country.	*’
Sincerely, John J. Fatum, Captain, U. S. Anny
Ed. Note: Agreed, the present senior class is as loyal to~ the United States as any class at Notre Dame. We feel, however, that you have lifted one sentence * from context and misinterpreted it. The following sentences should have been read in conjunction with the one you have quoted. “In the time of Father Sorin, the position of Catholics necessi- „ tated such action but in modern America the Church is no longer suspected of disloyalty. The need for a public profession of allegiance is no longer existent.” When the occasion arises, the class of 1959 will meet it with , their patriotism. We do not feel that empty, meaningless exercises constitute such an occasion.
The Scholastic
f
CALENDAR
TONIGHT: *
7:30 p.m.—Breen-Phillips mixer in the Student Center.
*■' 8:00 p.m.—The Notre Dame Sailing Team presenting “America’s Cup Defense” in the En-A	gineering Auditorium. Students $.75, Gen.
Ad. $1.
Third session of the Symposium on Christian Education in the Law Auditorium. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Sister Madelcva, »	C.S.C., Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., Prof.
Alvan Ryan and Prof. F. B. Crosson speaking on “The Achievement of Excellence in a
* ' Catholic University.”
8:15 p.m.—St. Mary’s drama department presents the Shakespearean comedy “Loves Labor Lost,” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
8:30 p.m.—The Concert and Lecture Series presents the Julliard String Quartet in Washing-
>	ton Hall.
DEBATE TOURNAMENT: Today and tomorrow the LaFortune Student Center will be filled with students from 42 colleges and universities around the country for the annual National Invitational Debate Tournament which, incidentally, -has become so important in recent years that it rivals the actual national tournament held later in the year. We would like to take this opportunity to welcome all those connected with the tournament to Notre Dame and to extend to them wishes > for a pleasant and profitable week end.
COLLEGE QUIZ BOWLERS: We’d like to wish good luck to Notre Dame’s representatives in next Sunday’s College Quiz Bowl, B. J. Moran, Tom Banchoff, “Jolly John” Bellairs, Phil Gibson, and Andy Connelly (who only commented “how vulgar” when informed that his picture would be in this week’s Scholastic).
SATURDAY:
9:30 a.m.—Final session of the Symposium on Christian Education in the Law Auditorium. Prof. William Frankena speaking on “Religion in Our Universities,” and Rev. Virgil C. Blum, S.J., on “Freedom of Choice in Education.”
11:00 a.m.—YCS study day begins with Missa Cantata in Holy Cross Chapel on the St. Mary’s campus.
5:30 p.m.—Howard Hall mixer in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
8:15 p.m.—St. Mary’s drama department presents the Shakespearean comedy “Loves Labor Lost,” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
SUNDAY:
7:30 p.m.—Detroit club meeting in 127, Nieuwland Science Hall.
8:00 p.m.—Westchester club meeting in 123, Nieuwland Science Hall.
8:15 p.m.—St. Mary’s drama department presents the Shakespearean comedy “Loves Labor Lost,” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
MONDAY:
1:00 p.m.—Dr. Thomas Mahoney speaking on “Scientific Discoveries and Political History” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
6:30 p.m.—Polish club meeting in the Student Center.
7:30 p.m.—Pittsburgh club meeting in room IE of the Student Center.
TUESDAY:
6:30 p.m.—Annual Notre Dame Testimonial Basketball Banquet at the Knights of Columbus Hall. Student tickets $3 in the Breen-Philips ticket office.
WEDNESDAY:
7:30 p.m.—Washington-Middle Virginia club meeting in rooms 2A-B of the Student Center.
8:15 p.m.—St. Mary’s drama department presents the Shakespearean comedy “Loves Labor Lost,” in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre.
THURSDAY:
7:30 p.m.—“Meet Your Major,” in the Law Auditorium. Rev. Charles Sheedy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Mr. Devere Plunkett, assistant dean, speaking on the choice of majors in the College of Arts and Letters. Compulsory for sophomores in arts and letters.
7:30 p.m.—Hall Presidents Council meeting in the Student Center amphitheatre.
8:00 p.m.—Third Lenten Lecture in 104 O’Shaughnessy. Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., speaking on “The Catholic and Segregation.”
March 6, 1959
SENATE REPORTING: Since last fall, Jim Byrne, a junior from Howard Hall, has been our Student Senate reporter. We feel that he’s done a good job by keeping close to Senate activities and by acting as a justice on Joe Harrison’s “useless” Student Court. Recently, however, some senators have complained that Jim is doing more than mere reportorial work for the Scholastic — and they’re right. He’s been giving a columnist’s “slant” to his Senate stories. From now on Jim will write his stories under a byline so that any “slanting” of Senate reporting will be quite legal.
STUDENT SENATE ACTION: This week the Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution which is of particular interest to the Scholastic. The resolution which would provide for a University Review newssheet is of interest to the Scholastic because it will help define the somewhat ambiguous position of this magazine with regard to the expression of student opinion. Since the Scholastic is considered a publicity organ of the University there are certain areas which cannot be fully approached and which a University Review, since it will be restricted to campus environs, will be able to treat satisfactorily. We are behind this resolution 100% and hope that the administration will consider this -an important step toward encouraging real participation in University life by the student body.
STUDENT FORUM: The latest Student Forum left much to be desired. In the first analysis it was poorly attended — perhaps this was a result of the topic. This however is incredible to most of the upperclassmen who, when they were entering Notre Dame, were spectators in a rather extensive though somewhat glib and light debate concerning the relative m’erits of the A. B. and Engineering programs. The debate which was carried on in the Scholastic (usually in the A.B. oriented Escape) and in the residence halls provided many a light though fruitful discussion.
Lately, as evidenced in the forum, such a topic is uninteresting to the studant body. There was, however, a more serious reason for the failure of Sunday’s meeting to get moving. The speakers developed arguments for their respective sides which conceded much to the position of the opponent. This eirenism, although it . most probably defined the best educational process as a combination of the techni- > logical training with a discipline in the humanities, failed to point out the opposing ' issues; in fact, the speeches seemed to give a solution to the problem which would ' be amicable to all. By presenting such a solution and by failing to isolate the is- - t sues distinctly, the speakers failed to stimulate the discussion — the discussion which was to be core of the forum. There were, nevertheless, many points winch the speakers treated which might have been challenged from the floor; but instead 1 of an initial intelligent topic, the Forum was sidetracked onto a siding titled “The./'??; Attributes of Man as an Educated Muskrat Raiser.” At the same time, a rather . £>3 crucial query by Professor Newman concerning the ability of man to think without ; ' , mathematics remained unapproached. The vital issues which should have been f .’?■? brought into question were emphasized only by their absence. This is partly the > i fault of the speakers, but culpable are the supposed intelligent participants who let : a discussion wander into minor fields without having first investigated the funda-mental issues. It is hoped that further forums will be noted for the crystalization of the opposing arguments in the speeches (as was specified in the Academic missioner’s opening address) and a thought provoking and intelligent discussion -by the students who attend the meeting. These are essential to the success of future?; fora. — S. &S.	-	\

Scoring big with slick ideas
like the Electronic Secretary * answering unit.
product of Americas second largest telephone system.
Your phone is always “tended” when an Electronic Secretary unit is on your “line.” For it answers calls in your absence and takes messages as well!
Here’s how it works. When your phone rings, a recorded voice informs the caller that you are out—and invites him to leave his name, number and any information he wishes you to have.
When you return—or when you phone in-all calls are repeated to you word for word. Result: no more “missed” messages, no more lost business, no more worrying about leaving the phone unattended any hour of the day or night
This is just one of many ways Gen Tel is adding new dimensions to telephone communication. We know that, in an America which is expanding fast on all fronts, it is imperative to expand both telephone service and telephone versatility.
And we’re meeting the challenge by developing new products and better methods for bringing more and more people together.
TELEPHONE
6
The Scholastic

the

Scholastic
Vol. 100 March 6, 1959 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
»	LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH._______________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE__________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH_________________Features	Editor
* TEDDY THOMPSON.____________Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE..................Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER..........-Photography PETER HASBROOK........Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI..........Circulation
ROY RUBELI._____________Assistant News
AL GENIESSE........1....-Assistant Copy CHAS RIECK..........Assistant Copy
FRANK DUDA_________Assistant Features
„ JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER________Ass’t Features
CHUCK MILLER_________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE________________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER____________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.____________________Assistant	Business
* FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C.-Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Bob Kelley, Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary. Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and * Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
F'	_________'________________
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
blue circle
On February 8, 1957, the Scholastic carried an editorial by Charles McKendrick about the Blue Circle entitled “a misnomer.” Today, some two years later, the title, “Blue Circle Honor Society,” is still a misnomer. As McKendrick pointed out, the Blue Circle is a service society and a good one. The Circle handles numerous chores, large and small, that no other organization can or will undertake. In running Freshmen Orientation, conducting campus tours, and ushering at various Wash-. -ington Hall activities, the Blue Circle functions in an administrative capacity. This work, difficult and liable to criticism from all quarters, is generally well done and it is to the Circle’s credit that the members are willing to undertake these many . tasks. It is for this that the Blue Circle should be honored.
The fact remains, however, that the Blue Circle is not an honor society in the true sense of the word. Honor Society, on the educational plane, usually denotes an organization with a semi-exclusive membership of students who have already achieved recognition in the academic sphere, the most important sphere of any true university. A glance at the Blue Circle requirements reveals that Blue Circle standards are really at a minimum. Satisfactory disciplinary record and an academic average of 3.0 (the equivalent of 80 under the old system) are the only two criteria for Blue Circle membership. A 3.0 average will include anywhere from half to two- ; thirds of the student body and certainly does not make the prospective members even semi-exclusive on the academic level.
Further, the Blue Circle constitution requires that members maintain both good disciplinary standing and the 3.0 average necessary for admission. This stipulation has been neglected in the past and is being ignored in the present. The situation, then, is such that only minimum requirements are necessary for admission and, once these low hurdles have been overcome, the Circle member is not required to meet any other standards, in fact, may fall below the original requirements. With.these points in mind it is no wonder that the only campus honor society is in a peculiar position. The real student at Notre Dame receives little enough recognition and it is only natural that resentment should occur towards the so-called honor society.
Another point that might be made at this time regards the current interest in an academic honor society. If such a society is actually established, as it rightfully should be, the Blue Circle would be in the rather precarious position of being a -“rival” honor society (in name only, however) and would, by force of circumstances, be forced to drop its pretentious title.
If the title were dropped the Blue Circle would, in fact, attain a correct and a stronger status in the Notre Dame community. In the first place, the Circle would be accepted for what it is, a service society, and for what it does, serves the University. Animosity on the part of the true honor students would be obviated and the Circle could fulfill its mission without fear of criticism regarding the character of the organization.
Another benefit would accrue to the Circle during its membership drive. One of the key Circle phrases in advising prospective freshmen is “don’t join too many activities, the Circle needs and requires your full-time support.” Yet, paradoxically, -most Blue Circle seniors and juniors are active in numerous campus organizations. ■ This is not because these students possess tremendous capabilities, but. rather be- -cause the Circle members are oftentimes prestige seekers, first joining the campus . honor society, then branching out into other activities. For a service society which . does need full-time support, the Blue Circle too often tends to grow “top heavy,** -J; that is, has too many members who must devote themselves to other activities and, \ as a result, neglect their duties in the Circle. Obviously, this danger will continue to exist as long as the Blue Circle purports to be an honor society. • A change at . name might, on the other hand, discourage starry-eyed prestige seekers and encour- > age students sincerely interested in service.	. ?
The Blue Circle, then, is a service society with nominal requirements for adnris-. ; sion which are ignored once a student is admitted. It remains in a peculiar position . ;; in the University because it purports, by its very title, to be that which it is not. c Its honorific title, in fact, tends to attract the wrong type of student, the prestige' \ seeker, not the sincere server. A mere change in nomenclature will not, of. course, effect miraculous changes overnight; however, we do feel that a change of this sort,-in addition to attracting the right kind of student, will help the Circle achieve its proper* place in the University structure and will gain the full respect of-the stu- /z: dent body. — R. S.	.	, ■
anytime to PREFERRED
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton — preferred by the family, and business executives for -downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to. you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
. Rafes
from


THE NEW

HAMILTON
HOTEL
20 SOUTH DEARBORN Preferred by guests in CHICAGO IN KANSAS CITY ITS THB BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO \ WIN A FIN I :___________________j
from
LIMERICK
LAUGHTER
A NEW MONTHLY CONTEST SPONSORED AND JUDGED BY THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF ON BEHALF OF OUR BACK COVER ADVERTISER
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter" Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works:
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the March contest must be received by March 31. Names of the winners will be published in the April 17 edition of the SCHOLASTIC. So enter now and keep entering each month. The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
J oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this “security,” Why strain my maturity?
It’s done for me by “competent men.”
While a baby was born to Sue, Hubby knew not what to do. As he went through his paces He swallowed his Oasis
When the doctor said “triplets for you.”
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
The Scholastic
(«•
>
tiddy fi yi, or the
by CHARLES BOWEN
art of folksong
Due to the rise of interest in folk * music among the more intellectually advanced among us (a rise sharply illustrated, I might add, by the recent occasion on which several pensive devotees were so stirred by contemplation of the simple beauties of this homespun medium that they nearly wrecked a local rathskeller) I have decided to pass on * the benefits of my extensive knowledge in the field to a horde of panting readers (you).
“Poppycock,” you say, brushing an imaginary speck from your ivy league lapel, “Bowen couldn’t sing his way out of a laundromat.” Well, for answer, I shall merely quote the album notes I T wrote for my latest record, Songs of a Wayfaring Strangler (released by Curi-osa Records):
“I was born in a guitar factory in El Paso and I’ve been a-singin’ and a-wanderin’ ever since. I learned my first folk songs at my mother’s knee and other fc low joints. In 1917 I first became interested in the rich musical heritage indigenous to the Pawtucket, Rhode Island area, and since that time this body of music has been my first love. (You can hear some of my interpretations in the album Are There No Workhouses? And Others.)
f “In 1920 I took the new music on a nationwide tour and was met everywhere with overwhelming apathy. The only newspaper to publish a friendly review (or any kind of a review at all, for that matter) was the farseeing, progressive Buffington, Conn. Daily Whig, which said (in part) “. . . not alto-
. gether ...”
“The trouble was that jazz was com-* ing up the Mississippi at the same time and nobody seemed to care what was coming down Narragansett Bay. But I persisted. I struggled. By 1928 it was being said (to whomever might have been listening) that “Bowen has made , the jew’s-harp a concert instrument.”
The story of this lonely fight was dra-matized on We, The People in 1947.
“I’ve come a long way since then and have given command performances (for which I charged handsomely) before all the crowned heads of Europe, none of whom, however, could be reached for comment.”
March 6, 1959
Now that you have been reduced by the sight of these credentials to a blubbering heap of apologies, I will proceed to enlighten you one and all.
There are many ways of approaching folk music, but they all boil down to three: 1) The Commercial; 2) The Troubadour, and 3) The Proletarian.
1)	Members of this group are usually found entertaining at colleges or night clubs. Their songs are often rather coyly aimed at people who know where babies come from. This style is not recommended for the purist, unless you don’t mind adding an occasional rock-and-roll beat or changing the lyrics until Greensleeves, for example, sounds like A Rose and a Baby Ruth.
2)	This is the artiest group. They refuse to sing any song that might have been written too late to be sung by Geoffrey Chaucer. Old English ballads are their specialty, particularly the ones in which three quarters of the lines go “With a hey derry down and a tirra lirra loo,” or “Sing higgledy piggiedy hay de hi ho.” To find out if you are fitted to be a troubadour, look in the mirror and repeat the above lines five times to some suitable tune (say The Chipmunk Song) and watch carefully. If you blush, this is not your style.
3)	This is the most interesting group of all. Not content with the musical content of folksongs, they insist that they are all socially significant. They love to make records like “Songs of Social Protest and Class Unrest,” and “Tunes That Made the Teamsters Great.” They never forget to include the verses about the mean ol’ bankers. Where a commercial folk singer might be content with:
My wife and I live all alone,
In a little ol’ hut that we call home;
She loves gin and I love rum,
And between us we have lots of fun.
the proletarian folk singer will unearth the version that goes:
My wife and I live all alone, In a little ol’ hut that we called home;
But since our plant got unionized, . We’re livin’ much more civilized.
If this is the kind of folk singer you want to be, you can begin right now, . even if you can’t afford a guitar. Get rid of all your clothes execept a pair of bluejeans and a black sweater. Learn to like diablo, a variety of coffee brewed especially for people like you. If you are male, throw away your razor.
Soon, unless there burns no spark of poesy in your crass bosom, unless no noble sentiment can find its way into your deadened soul, unless, in other words, you are enrolled in the College of Commerce, you too will be a confirmed lover of folk music and may begin shopping for a Japanese nose flute.
♦ * ♦
I, for one, would like to know the identity of G. P. Scarpia. The idiot editors of this bland little rag refuse to tell me, apparently in the belief that I will squeal to the Music Department and he will receive the trouncing he undoubtedly deserves. I hasten to assure Mr. Scarpia that I have no interest in the refutation of his musical opinions, such as they are, but that I wish to locate him for another reason altogether. As soon as I find out who he is and where he lives, I intend to gather a party of vigilantes who share my concern for the English language, and track him down in his lair, where we will confiscate all his pencils, pens, and ink cartridges, and smash his typewriter. To expedite the fulfillment of this noble purpose, I am personally setting a price of seven cents ($.07) on his head. (Figuratively, of course — please don’t bring any heads to my door without advance notice.) I would be happy to pay more but my conscience will not allow it, as by my calculations, this is already over twice what he is worth. Anyone bringing this information to 39 Sorin will receive a cashier’s check, drawn on my bank, in the above amount.
Should this quest be unsuccessful, I will ask the editors to forward to Mr. Scarpia my personal copy of Writer? Guide and Index to English, which I shall have, at my own expense, baked into a lasagna. I am sure that if he eats it, the results will show in his unique prose.
HELD OVER BY POPULAR DEMAND
What an appealing widow she would make!”
That's the wicked thought of the Society Doctor!
MGM precepts
LESLIE CARON DIRK BOGARDE « BERNARD SHAWS THE DOCTORS DILEMMA
„ METROCOLOR An M G M Release
YOU’VE READ ABOUT IT. NOW SEE IT!
1GDM -Wd qsajj Moug 04. S+OH U4O4J- MOpMg
□□□□□□
a
2 i v 0
H jS V
V 3
s	1	3	3	i	s
G	3	S	S	0	1
11	a	S	1	H	0
3	8		O	1	3
IN		3	a	N	s
	3	A	a	3	N
10		V	d	IAI	1
9 n
■ £ 80 OlS
a
a o
n o
H
A V
	sis	3	IN
1	■1	1	V
s	M O	O	H
a	N O	1	S
d	1 X	s||	
U3MSNV 1GDH
KQDL KROSSWORD No. 17
ACROSS
!. Between a hop and a jump
5. Animal from Green Bay?
9.	Wall encountered on some dates
10.	Miss Gardner ad infinitum
11.	They attract eyes
12.	Kind of stand
13.	It follows you down South
14.	Don’t get caught in it
15.	Gal who looks like unmade bed
17.	Marilyn’s one
18.	Kind of do
21.	Half a song at Yale
22.	This makes a profound impression
25.	With lemon in your mouth
26.	All you need to get ahead
27.	Paint____
28.	Snick and---
29.	Tackle’s rainy-dsy facial
30.	Chow
34.	Kjp« of etera
35.	Biniicai birth reference
37.	She sounds like money
38.	Instrument of the conniver
40. Temple, but far from Philly
42.	Flipped
43.	Horse & soap_
44.	Rains marbles
45.	But she may not be a cheap date
DOWN
1. Got beyond first base, illicitly
2.	Are you smoking ’em? Good!
3.	You’re brave if you’re using this
4.	Pets in confusion
5.	Manhandle
6.	He gets the air
7.	Meow from girl on phone?
8.	A good place for “hots”
9.	Rock popular in Ireland
16.	Early morning cut
17.	Overimbiber
19.	It’s good in the hole
20.	What Pop saw in Clara Bow
21.	Crosby cat
22.	Gnatty crowd
23.	Kools’ mild refreshing ingredient
24.	Right on target
25.	Drink not favored by 17 Down
27. Favored receptacle of 17 Down
29. Pinochle or gm maneuvers
31.	Dress up
32.	Something to live for
33.	Aqueous solutions
35.	Favorite vegetable of this generation?
36.	The first man to break it wins
39. Point in compasses
41. Short genera!
9
are you kodl enough to
KRACK THIS?
5
10
12
11
13
15
22
28
44
37
45
MILO menthol
26
34
38
42
16
18
20
29
30
31
40
43
KGDL
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
• Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol — and the worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
• "With every puff your mouth feels clean your throat refreshed!
Qmeiicos Mosh Meshing Ggfttefe
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER!
01859, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. '
KGDL
10
The Scholastic
CatHfUd ^cuu
QUIZ TEAM PREPARES FOR SUNDAY CONTEST
Squad to Face GU'ers On Foe's Own Ground
This Sunday afternoon at 4 o’clock Notre Dame’s entry in the “G. E. College Bowl,” a national quiz program, will face the alert Georgetown team which has been on the program for four weeks. Georgetown, a very formidable foe, has trounced Princeton and defeated Tulane in its last two appearances.
The ND team which has been preparing for their first time on the air, leaves for Washington, D. C. tomorrow morning. The team consists of Thomas Ban-choff, junior math major from Trenton, N. J.; John Bellairs, an English major from Marshall, Mich.; Andrew Connelly, senior English major from New Rochelle, N. Y.; Phillips Gibson, a senior-in GP from Rochester, N. Y.; and Brian Moran, a senior math major from Tulsa, Okla. Actually, only four will appear on the program, the fifth member acting as an alternate. The final decision as to the exact makeup of the team has not yet been made.
The team has been practicing hard in order to unseat the current champions on Sunday. If they succeed in doing so,
VARSITY SCHOLARS APPEARING IN COLLEGE QUIZ BOWL Left to right: Tom Bonchoff, John Bellairs, Brion Moran, Phillips Gibson, Andrew Connelly.
March 6, 1959
they will appear here in Washington Hall to defend their title the next Sunday and following Sundays as long as they continue to win. The first home opponents would be Barnard College for girls, the University of Minnesota, and Army. Tickets for these shows will be available at the Washington Hall box office at times to be announced later.
Practicing every day, the team makes use of a sparring team gathered from among fellow students and at other times makes use of books of questions available to them. They have been advised by the producers to read such periodicals as Time, Neivsweek, the Saturday Review, Atlantic Monthly, and the New York Times to help them in their preparation.
In the practice sessions which are held daily an attempt is made to simulate actual telecast conditions. The group originally intended to construct a buzzer system similar to that used on the program, but the difficulties involved were too great. Now at practice sessions they are content with hand signals. Perhaps these will come in handy as the buzzers did not work on last week’s show.
Wednesday of this week the team practiced on a monitored show in the studios of WNDU-TV located on campus.
The team also appeared on an interview show on WSND.
The team will arrive in Washington Saturday in time foi- an evening dinner with the producers and contestants. They will stay at Georgetown, the home of their opposition, for the duration of their visit. Sunday, from noon until telecast time at 5 o’clock, EST, the team will run through several practice sessions and “dry runs” to become acclimated to . appearing on coast to coast television. Monday they will return to campus, win or lose.
Traveling with the team will be Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., head of the department of education and coach of the
“The G.E. College Bowl" on which the Notre Dame team will appear will be seen Sunday afternoon at 4 p.m. on WSBT-TV, local CBS affiliate.
team. Managei- Bob Erler, who has been working overtime hunting up questions to ask at the practice sessions, will he in the first row in front of the TV set on Sunday afternoon.
Earlier this week, this reporter sat in on a practice session and was able to observe the team in action. In this particular outing they fared very well, easily drubbing their opposition 221 to 65. Naturally the opposition encountered on this occasion was not as formidable as it will be when they meet Georgetown.
The program works on the following basis. A tossup question is given which either team can answer depending on which team presses the buzzer first. If a correct answer is given to this question by the member pushing the button, his team is given an opportunity to answer a bonus question of considerable more complexity. More time is given for these questions.
The Notre Dame team has been working hard to improve their rapid response which is as essential as knowledge to insure success on the program. So far they have progressed very well.
In observing the practice session last week and talking to one of the team members the following strengths and weaknesses were noted. The entire team is very strong in questions pertaining to literature, art, sports, and classical music. In current events and in that ambiguous category known as “general knowledge” the panel does quite well. They are, however, not particularly strong in history and are quite weak in the field of jazz.
There are certain lesser known fields ' (Continued on page 29)
11
Prof. Newman Advocates Study of One Area; Nature Centered Pursuit Attacked by Keegan
The end of man, the Notre Dame curriculum, and muskrat raising came under discussion at the first student forum of the semester held last week. Representing the technical education was Prof. Marcel Newman, head of the mechanical engineering department. Prof. Frank Keegan of the general program represented liberal education.
Prof. Newman started off by presenting what he felt constituted the purpose of an education: to learn one phase of knowledge with depth, to have an opportunity to became a scholar, and to introduce the student to further progress in technological pursuits.
Apparently Prof. Newman feels that mathematics is the core of technological education, for he said “a man trying to think without mathematics is like a helpless child.” The language of mathematics, he went on to say, is most perfect because of the degree of its perfection which is not found in our language.
According to Prof. Newman, knowledge which holds no interest for the
The Kingston Trio to Appear Before Campus on March 13
The Kingston Trio, made famous by their recent hit “Tom Dooley,” will appear at the Fieldhouse next Friday night at 8 p.m.
The Trio was organized in 1956 by Dave Guard, a graduate student at Stanford University, and includes Bob Shane and Nick Reynolds. All three are heard on guitar, Guard and Shane on banjo and Reynolds on bongos and conga drums.
Guard and Shane were reared in Hawaii where they became interested in the native songs of the islands and learned other Polynesian music from travelers. Reynolds learned folk music from his father, a Navy captain.
The Trio made their* professional debut at the Stanford campus hangout in May of 1957. Since then they have had engagements in such places as the Purple Onion Club in San Francisco, the Blue Angel in New York, and the Royal Hawaiian Hotel in Honolulu. They also made several television appearances between engagements.
The Trio’s versatility was shown in their first album “The Kingston Trio” by such songs as the ghostly “Fast Freight” the calypsian “Banua,” and the cocktail lounge-type “Scotch And Soda.”
Their present album, “The Hungry i,” shows the same variety in songs like “When the Saints Go Marching In” and “They Call the Wind Maria.”
Ticket sales for the Trio’s appearance will be held today in the Fieldhouse from 12:30 until 5 p.m. Tickets will cost $1.
12
student or which is of no use to him is no good. Knowledge should be according to one’s tastes and needs. In conclusion he admitted that a good, entire technological education should include liberal arts.
Prof. Keegan discussed liberal arts, technology, and the notion of an undergraduate education. Both technology and the liberal arts are concerned with doing something, he said. Both employ the necessity of being able to express oneself orally and in writing.
The end of each differs. Liberal arts use mental skills as they perfect the mind, while engineering uses mental skills to change external matter.
There are two means employed to these ends. One is to understand man and his society, and the other is to control man and his society. In both cases knowledge perfects the mind. In the case of technological education this is secondary, while in the liberal arts it is of primary importance. There is always a danger of turning the means of knowledge into its end, and this danger is especially prevalent in enginering.
The control of domination of matter is not the end of knowledge, just a means to it, the GP professor asserted. The perfection of man is of more importance than man’s control of nature. The end of man is infinitely more important than the fruits he produces. A liberal education is above a technical education and is a necessary background for the latter.
The lively discussion which followed the opening remarks was centered around the question of liberal knowledge’s superiority to the lower phases of knowledge. One student inquired as to whether or not man had a specific nature, and if he did, whether or not knowledge of himself was not most important. Prof. Newman admitted this was true. Then the student, feeling that he had forced an admission, became involved in muskrat raising, and this subject was tossed around for some time to no conclusion.
Another member of the audience asked Prof. Keegan, who is a member of the University’s Maritain Institute, if he were not misunderstanding that philosopher’s view on the position of an art.
In response to a question about the curriculum of Notre Dame’s colleges, both admitted that none is doing a perfect job, and that there is always room for improvement. Education depends on teachers, books, flexibility of the system, and other factors, but most important is the individual for ultimately man learns for himself.
The discussion continued at great length, many of the audience leaving at various intervals, particularly after an hour had elapsed and no new questions were being asked.
Seniors Hear Evans For Marriage Advice
The final lecture of the Marriage Institute series will be delivered by Mr. * and Mrs. John Evans on Wednesday, March 11, at 7:30 p.m. in Washington *' Hall. Their lecture topic will be, “Success in Marriage.”
Mr. Evans received his Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees in his-	।
tory from the University of Notre Dame	‘
in 1950 and 1952, respectively. While at " $ Notre Dame he was on the Scholastic / and Juggler editorial staffs. Presently, | Mr. Evans, is the Textbook Director of Fides Publishers here in South Bend. f
Mrs. Evans is a native of Niagara Falls, N. Y. She received her Bachelor j. of Science degree in 1948 and her . Master of Education degree in 1949 from ’ '* the Niagara University. At Niagara, ? Mrs. Evans was active in NFCCS and > was elected to the ranks of Who’s TPho
MR. AND MRS. JOHN EVANS
Speaking at final Marriage Institute.
in Catholic Colleges. Before her marriage she taught at the secondary school > level. Recently, she has written articles * for the national Catholic newspaper, Our Sunday Visitor.	" '
Both Mr. and Mrs. Evans have been very active in the Christian Family Movement. They are past-presidents of the South Bend CFM and are now on . the program committee of the national .. Christian Family Movement. They have ** a family of three children at ages six, four, and two.	' '
Attendance at all six of the lectures entitles a senior to a certificate which is the equivalent of a Pre-Cana Conference series. Students who have had their ticket stamped the required six times, may pick up their certificates in the new YCS offices any afternoon from F Monday to Friday.	-’f,
Chairman of the series was Joe Hig- £ gins. He was assisted by John Beliveau t who was in charge of publicity, Ken f Hiegel who handled ticket sales and Bill J Zamarelli who acted as secretary.	£
The Scholastic
Student Foundation Starts Campaign Sunday; .44 Per Cent Increase Over 1958 Sum Sought
si The goal of this year’s Student Foundation drive, opening this Sunday and * running for one week, has been set at 100 per cent participation, which would ■ be a .44 per cent increase over last year’s record breaking total.
Bob Toland, a junior commerce student, is again chairman of the drive. * The class representatives on his committee include Senior John Martin; Bob , Beranek, a junior; Ned Grant from the sophomore class and Dan Kenney as the i freshman representative.
Collections will be handled by the j Hall Presidents’ Council who will arrange for representatives to visit each ) student. These representatives will : answer any questions concerning the
* ••••••• —— — ——--------
. Catholic Action Group Plans
Study Day at SMC Clubhouse
The Young Christian Students of 4 Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s plan another study day to be held at the clubhouse at Saint Mary’s College tomorrow. Any student at Notre Dame interested 5 is invited to attend.
The study day will begin with a Missa ( Cantata in the chapel of Holy Cross Hall at 11 a.m. The Mass will be cele-, brated by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Reynold Hillenbrand, national chaplain of YCS. Fol* lowing the Mass, lunch will be served in the clubhouse.
Msgr. Hillenbrand will deliver the first talk of the afternoon at 1 p.m. In explaining his topic, “The Social Doctrine of the Church,” Monsignor will explore . the layman’s role in developing and ap-■ plying this doctrine to the needs of the ► modern world in the lay areas, emphasizing the Mass as the principal source of ► lay spirituality. A discussion period will follow the talk.
f At 3 p.m. Francis J. O’Malley, professor of English at the University, will discuss the social significance of the writings of Dr. Romano Guardini, es-► pecially his essays “The Church and the Catholic,” and “The Spirit of the
► Liturgy.”
Anyone interested should contact the new YCS office, basement of the La-Fortune Student Center, by Friday afternoon, March 6. There will be a charge of $.50 for lunch.
YCS HOURS
* As part of the changes in the La-Fortune Student Center, the YCS office is now located in the basement of the Student Center, the former graduate lounge, next to the pool hall. The hours that it will be open are as follows:
►	9:30 to 10:30	a.m. on	Monday,
Wednesday and	Friday;	10:30 to
11:30 a.m. on Tuesday and Thursday; and from 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. daily.
drive or the work of the Foundation itself. In return for a contribution, the student will be given a slip of “bogus” or counterfeit money.
Because of the impracticality of contacting off-campus students personally, the chairman will mail each of them a letter explaining the Foundation and how they may participate in the drive.
The purpose of this drive is not to collect a large amount of money to support the new $66,600,000 ten-year program, but to enlist the full cooperation of the student body and to acquaint them with the work of the Foundation.
All of the contributions received will be channelled into the fund for the new library as they were last year. The first Student Foundation Week, held in 1955, was supported by 93 per cent of the students. In subsequent years totals increased to 98.4 and 99.56 per cent.
The Foundation itself was originated in 1947 by Harry G. Hogan together with Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Alumni Board, and the Lay Trustees. It arose out of the needs of the University for a widespread field force of alumni to meet the demands of a faculty development program, and construction of new buildings and to cover the 30 percent part of the budget not met by tuition. These needs were outlined in 1948 by Father Cavanaugh, then University president, in a 25 million dollar long range program.
At present the Foundation, under the direction of Father Cavanaugh, has undertaken a new ten-year program for University improvement. Toland emphasizes that this is a drive for 100 per cent participation through only token collections.
YCS to Select Recipients Of Thomas More Award
The YCS announced this week that the selections for the annual St. Thomas More Awards will be made before Easter. The St. Thomas More Awards were established in 1956 by the YCS in an attempt to give special recognition to those seniors whose work in the student apostolate has been outstanding.
To be considered for this award a student is required to show special achievement in the field of the student apostolate, a spirit of generosity and unselfishness, excellent leadership qualities, and academic merit.
The recipients are chosen by a selection committee composed of junior representatives of the major Catholic Action organizations on campus and a faculty selection board composed of priests interested in the student Apostolate.
This is the first meaningful award to have been initiated for the express purpose of recognizing the efforts of students in the fields of student apostolic endeavors.
Review...
Nearly a Reality
Monday night, the Senate sent the constitution of Vox, a University journal of opinion, to the administration for approval. If passed by the University Council, the efforts of nearly an entire year will be crowned with success.
Last April, Bill Bowman, presently a junior in political science; Jack O’Brien, now Pangbom senator; and Brace Babbitt, senate secretary, took the first steps in establishing a student review which would be something more than a “baptized Thursday Throwback” By the end of the school year they had determined the need for such an organ of opinion (preventive censorship made the Scholastic impractical) and had begun a constitution which would make full use of faculty-student cooperation in solving the problems of censorship.
When the fall term began, this group welcomed Jim Naughton into their fold and continued with then- task, finishing the Constitution (Scholastic, Nov. 14) and publicizing the criteria for articles: constructive, intelligent, well-written, and significant.
The final weeks saw one of the most intense lobbying campaigns in the history of student government. Individual faculty members were contacted and promised their support (at the meeting letters from English Department Head John T. Frederick and Frederick J. Crosson, assistant professor in the General Program, were read which lauded the work done and offered active support.) Each senator received a copy of the constitution and a brief statement presenting the case for Vox. Members of the committee spoke to small groups of senators, explaining every detail of the proposal. When zero hour was at hand, Jim Naughton took the floor, supported by Babbitt and O’Brien. Fifteen minutes later the resolution was on its way to the administration.
To Bill, Jack, Jim, and Brace — especially the Kentucky conservative, Mr. Bowman — thanks from the rest of us!
One of the most interesting points in Monday’s debate was the distinction between preventive and punitive censorship. Under the former, the censor has the power to keep any objectionable article from being printed, as in the case of the Scholastic. Punitive censorship allows an editor to ignore a recommendation to print an article but he would be responsible for any ill effects the piece might have and would be subject to dismissal or some other punishment if so decided by his superiors. (The constitution of Vox provides for the removal of an editor by a 5-2 decision of the stu-
(Continued on page 28)
13
March 6, 1959
JOB OPPORTUNITIES!
A General Motors representative will be on campus March 16,17 and 18.
Contact your college placement office to arrange an interview.
Your imagination has a chance to soar at General Motors
GM positions now available in these fields for men holding Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctor’s degrees: Mechanical Engineering • Electrical Engineering • Industrial Engineering • Metallurgical Engineering • Chemical Engineering • Aeronautical Engineering • Ceramic Engineering • Mathematics • Industrial Design • Physics • Chemistry • Engineering Mechanics.
GENERAL MOTORS
General Motors engineers pre-check inertial guidance systems for ballistic missiles in a "raceway” simulating actual missile wiring.
Men like these are deeply involved in today’s fastest moving and fastest growing industry ... electronics. At General Motors engineers and scientists have a chance to develop their talents to the fullest... to let their imaginations soar.
You, too, can have a chance to put your imagination into operation at GM. Every facet of engineering and science is found among General Motors 35 divisions and 126 plants: automobiles, diesel engines, astronautics, appliances, rocket propulsion and solar energy . . . these are just a few of the fields open to the inquiring mind.
PERSONNEL STAFF DETROIT 2, MICH.
14
The Scholastic
Concert and Lecture Series:
Juilliard String Quartet
by Auntie Scarpia
b	*
Again this year Notre Dame will have the opportunity of * hearing a performance by the foremost string quartet in the country, and one of the finest chamber music groups in the world. The Juilliard String Quartet, which has included Notre Dame in its annual tour of the country for several years, since its Town Hall Debut in 1947, has consistently been enlarging both repertoire and reputation by frequent concert tours, recording sessions, and summer festivals. Its overseas engagements have included the major festivals at Edinburgh, Salzburg, Berlin, and Brussels, and it may well be significant that । the German press remarked: “As we listen to the Juilliard String Quartet’s Haydn and Beethoven it seems as if the quintessence of the classical European tradition returns to us from America.”
• The group was founded in 1946 by William Schuman, President of the Juilliard School of Music in New York, and the members were chosen from the principal teachers and faculty of the school. The present members are Robert Mann, ? violin; Isidore Cohen, violin; Raphael Hillyer, viola; and Claus Adam, violincello. In the last 13 years the group has । mastered 125 majoi- works ranging from the sixteenth century to Schoenberg and Bartok, including the complete Bee* thoven and Mozart cycles. It has very often presented the authoritative premieres of modern American, continental, and ♦ Latin American compositions, and among the latter is Alberto Ginastera’s second string quartet, which will be performed at tonight’s concert. This work in five movements is a fitting
I
vehicle for the flashing virtuosity and musical sensitiveness which are always evident in the performances of these enthusiastic musicians. (It will be interesting to see how the vivid directions in Ginastera’s score are interpreted: “rustic, peacefully, with anguish, presto, magico, freely and rhapsodically, furioso.”)
The virtues customarily attributed to the Quartet are its amazing integration and cohesion, sonorous tone quality, and balanced and technical precision; but more than to anything else it owes its great popularity to the dedicated ardor and obvious enjoyment of then- work which these musicians display on the stage. This energetic and distinctly American spirit which took European cultural circles by storm recorded an artistic triumph over the more staid, drawingroom interpretations of chamber music which have characterized Europe’s most widely-known groups. And yet all this is accomplished without the sacrificing of the ,poise and restraint of the classics; rather these seem to have been endowed with a new spirit and a penetrating insight which render them more meaningful to modem ears. Chambei* music per se will never be particularly deal' to the heart of the masses, but the Juilliard String Quartet has done much to make this field of music more accessible and likewise more appealing to the general public.
The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall. In addition to Ginastera’s Quartet, the Mozart Quartet in D minor will be performed. The Washington Hall box office will be open from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. Friday. •
Viewi Ute Pail
30 Years Ago — The Scholastic began its policy of running provocative editorials, when it thought it could get away with them. The editor felt that the University was too cut off from the outside world. He stated that if the majority of students were going to spend the rest of their lives on campus the “splendid isolation” would be fine, but since the students were going to live as ordinary citizens, a gate should be put in the walls that surround the University (the walls were only there figuratively; this school wasn’t trying to compete with the Bastille — it just happened that there is a resemblance). Of course the situation was at once remedied — the bus company was asked to service the University.
* * *
25 Years Ago — Lyons-by-the-Lake successfully defended its crown as the hall with most students on probation. Surprisingly enough Sorin Hall kept a perfect record; not one of its members got caught doing anything they shouldn’t, all year. The Sorinites of this era seemed to be a great deal more sedate or a lot more clever at bending the rules than the present members of the crumbling castle. Incidentally, Moreau Seminai-y had 7% of its residents on the list.
* * *
10 Years Ago — Father McAvoy dreamed up a new device to add to the department’s outside readings and departmental quizzes. Besides having to know the brand names of the pen used to sign the Declaration of Independence and the names, nationalities, number of children and blood count of the first 400 men who left their jobs in the Pullman strike, the poor student was required to turn in two term papers a semester. Oh for the days of those snap true and false tests!
The Ancient Editor
March 6, 1959
15
by William McCullough
In the three years I have been in the Blue Circle, it has been my opinion that the Circle is, at times, one of the least understood of the campus organizations. Some students know a great deal about the society and others do not. It is my intention .here to state briefly what the Circle is, what it stands for, what it means, and what it seeks to do.
To begin with, the purpose of the Circle is to promote and assist in the attainment of the ideals and objectives of the University. This is its single end, but the means to that end have been diversified over the years. For example, in 1923, the year of the Circle’s inception, its primary responsibility was to promote student spirit in all aspects of campus life. The organization at that time was called the “Boosters.”
It was successful in its first year and the following year the Administration made its official name the Blue Circle. The “Blue,” like the school color, is associated with Our Lady and signifies dedication to her. The “Circle” is symbolic of unity, both unity of purpose and the fraternal unity of the members in the spirit of service to Notre Dame.
From 1924 to 1932 the group expanded its activities to include the operation of pep rallies, the establishment of a football “gridgraph” for away games, the administration of which was the beginning of today’s extensive freshman orientation program, the management of the subscription drives for the Scholastic and the Dome, and the promotion of the band and the various minor sports. However, after 1932, the group lapsed into inactivity until it was officially disbanded in 1935. It was not until 1946 that the Circle was rejuvenated and again assumed its role of promoting the ideals and objectives of the University. The Circle then branched into all aspects of student life and gradually evolved to its present status.	~
It is quite apparent, I think, that the one motive underlying all the Circle’s activities since its inception has been service to the University. And by the University is meant the school as a whole, and not only the student body, or the administration, or any single part, but the school itself, and nothing less. But there is more than just service involved. The Circle has actively attempted to promote and to assist in the attainment of all the ideals and objectives of the University. It attempts to do this in a number of ways, not the least of which should be the living up to these ideals by its members.
But in such projects as pep rallies, freshman advising, and the Concert and Lecture Series, the Circle strives to promote the best interest of the whole University, and see that its objectives are manifested whenever possible. In these activities, and in the freshman orientation program, tours, and the annual Christmas parties, it is not the students or the administration only, but the whole University that is the beneficiary. Indeed, this is true, directly or indirectly, of all Circle activities. This is not unique to the Circle.
What is peculiar to the Circle, however, is that its primary responsibilities are to the University as a whole. It has no obligation to serve any particular group first in its - efforts.
16
Certainly, when the Circle considers undertaking new projects in the future, this will be the idea it will bear in mind: that which most directly benefits the whole University is that which most conforms to the Blue Circle purpose and raison d’etre.
In view of these ends, each of the projects the Circle undertakes is but a means and, since the end is the good of the University, then any of the means might, in a sense, be considered a “service.” But if this means-end relationship is understood, it should be clear that this service is not merely for the sake of service, but for the sake of something higher. For as I have said, one of the means by which the Circle attains its objectives is in the member’s manifestation, insofar as possible, of what the school stands for. This can hardly be called service.
Further, the Circle has an existence outside of the projects it undertakes, for one of its aims is the promotion of fraternal spirit among its members. This, likewise, can hardly be called service. Thus, it should be clear that to call the Circle a service society is to assume that it has no existence outside of services rendered, and, by this erroneous premise, a good deal of the point of what it is, is missed.
Another point of nomenclature that is frequently the subject of misunderstanding is the term “Honor Society.” There are a number of things which must be understood with regard to this part of the Blue Circle’s name. First of all, “honor” is taken here in a sense that includes more than just the academic. It is academic in a sense, in that a 3.0 average is the first prerequisite for membership, but it is more than academic because there are other requirements in addition to an academic minimum.
To say, then, that the word “honor” can only apply to the academic is to restrict the meaning of a word which obviously has more than one narrow connotation. The Circle simply chooses not to concretize the meaning of the word. There is, I think, an excellent reason for this.
The “honor” involved in the Circle is manifold. First, there
AT THE GALLERY

an exhibition of MODERN MAST® DRAWINGS, WATER COLORS, AND COLLAGES
1 to 5 P.M. Daily February 8 to March 8, 1959
The Scholastic
is the honor of being selected as a member by this group amidst stiff competition. Second, and this is the most important fact to remember, the University has officially recognized and bestowed the name “Blue Circle Honor Society” upon this organization. This name is not just something arbitrarily assumed. The reasons for this accredidation which the University has conferred, and the sense in which it is meant, clearly signify that the school recognizes achievement (“excellence” if you will) in more than just the academic realm. In addition, the University appreciates the Circle’s attempt to bring honor to Notre Dame, and of the services rendered in that attempt.
Further, the existence and name of the Blue Circle Honor Society does not preclude the existence of an academic honor society here on campus. In fact, several of the Circle members are presently working for the establishment of just such a society. The Circle, as a whole, would particularly welcome an academic honor society, first, for the good it would do the University, and second, because its existence would underscore the distinction between their nature and meaning and that of the Blue Circle.
The Circle at present conducts a full schedule of projects throughout the school year. Probably the most important and best known of our activities, freshmen orientation, is a project that requires that all Circle members return to school a week early in September. Of all our activities, Circle members are proudest of this one since by it we best fulfill all our objectives.
After orientation the Circle settles down to a full round of fall activities. What might be considered an extension of freshmen orientation is the freshmen advisory program in the colleges of Commerce and Arts and Letters that has been administered by the Circle in past years. Since this met with only limited success primarily due to the lack of upperclassmen who assumed a conscientious attitude about helping freshmen assigned to them, the entire program is now being reviewed. With the cooperation of the administration, a new and more efficient plan should be completed this spring.
Another important activity beginning in the fall, and one that has been somewhat misunderstood in recent years, is the promotion of student spirit. Recently, activity in this field has been confined to pep rallies. A sincere attempt was made this fall to maintain spirit throughout the entire week, not only for an hour on Friday nights. But this effort met with only limited success. Plans have been made to correct this and in the future the committee must widen its scope to insure a program for continuous spirit. Further, we feel there is much to be done toward promoting enthusiasm for other sports.
Another activity in conjunction with the football season is the student trip which the Circle runs each fall. In the past three years these trips have been very successful and from all indications next year should be no exception. Although initial steps have not been taken as of yet, the Pittsburgh game is the likely choice for next year’s trip. The trip to Pittsburgh three years ago was extremely well received, as many of this article’s readers might remember.
Probably one of the most ostensible of the Circle’s activities is our tour program. Particularly in the early and later parts of the school year many visitors and guests of the University are conducted about the campus. We are particularly proud of this responsibility since in this capacity we are the official representatives of the University.
Working with the vice-president for student affairs, the Concert and Lecture Series committee has enjoyed its most successful year. Season ticket sales were at a new high and almost every performance has played to a capacity audience. The quality of the artists on the program has improved each year and there is no reason why it should not continue to do so in the future. The Circle ushers for this, its own activity, as well as for the University Theatre group in its annual presentations.
March 6, 1959
We are also called upon to run the campus elections and the yearly selections for Who’s Who. These duties are accepted by the Circle because of its non-political nature. Our role in these functions is strictly administrative.
Just prior to the Christmas holidays, the Circle sponsors its two traditional and most popular activities, the ann^l Christmas caroling party with St. Mary’s and the parties for the underprivileged in the South Bend area.	'
Three years ago the Circle added a new activity that has grown considerably in importance. The vaccine committee, working with Doctors Ward and Crowley, has administered the Salk polio shots, flu shots, and, this past fall, the cold vaccine. Incidentally, next week the Circle will conduct another survey to test the effectiveness of the cold shot.
This past weekend the leadership training committee held its annual conference. Directed primarily toward the sophomores, this-weekend, of discussing different aspects of leadership, attempts to give students, interested in developing themselves, an opportunity to express their views and a means to learn some techniques of leadership. The Circle is also presently working with a student committee, representing other campus organizations, concerning the problem of permanent hall residence.
Our most important job late in the spring semester is, of course, the selection of new members for the following year. Usually we have to select 22 or 23 freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to replace outgoing seniors. In view of our purpose, the furthering of the ideals and objectives of the University, we attempt to select from among our applicants those who most nearly represent these qualities. One of the most difficult problems is selecting those who not only possess the necessary qualifications, but are also sincerely interested in devoting the great amount of time necessary for the success of Circle projects and the cultivation of fraternal activity.
After consideration of all the objectives and problems involved in membership, we have adopted the following new membership procedure. Every applicant is interviewed at least twice. These first two interviews are ccdiducted by four three-man boards, two each for upperclassmem and freshman applicants. Those selected to return are interviewed by a final board composed of seven seniors and juniors. Then, this final board makes their recommendation to the Circle where the new membership class, in toto, is voted ufim.	•
The last aspect of the Circle which I want to discuss is its fraternal bond, a bond which develops from students working together with a common purpose. This fraternal bond is extremely important and yet it is difficult for me to explain it to anyone who has not experienced the many things I have in working on Circle projects. Initially created by a close'association with these other men while performing services for the University, this fraternal bond is further encouraged by the group’s social functions and informal sessions. As a senior, I regard my friendships in the Circle as the most pleasant and probably the most lasting I have made here.
I am hardly the person to give a truly objective view of the Blue Circle, but it would not be realistic to say that I am • completely happy with the group this year, or that every Circle chairman has been fully satisfied with the efforts of J" the organization during his tenure of office. At times the man- -	-
agement of our activities has not lived up to my expectations, ~; ■'£ largely due to the fluctuating level of enthusiasm. In a few f particular cases, enthusiasm (or what was thought to be an active interest in the group’s affairs) ceased when members were accepted.	.
The Circle has, at the present time, a great need for new r ideas and ingenuity in performing traditional Circle activities -Z and in initiating new ones. As years go by, this will be of increasing concern to the Circle. The future of the Blue Cir- ' cle will be only as bright as the creative thinking and enthusiasm of its members. This brightness can. only serve to fur--.' ^ ther the interests of the entire University.
-	.	:. jz|J|
60 Tears of Debating. . .
THE NATIONAL TOURNAMENT '
by Jerry Goudreau
THE RICHARD D. SCHILLER TROPHY
Today and tomorrow the Seventh Annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament will make the campus the scene of forensic competi t ion among the forty top debating teams of the nation. At stake in this event is the Richard D. Schil
ler Trophy which will be awarded
permanently to the championship team. In addition, the name of the winning school will be added to the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy, which is retained at Notre Dame.
The center of activities will be the La Fortune Student Center where the six preliminary rounds of debate will be held. Saturday afternoon after a debate luncheon in the Morris Inn the top four teams will compete in the semi-finals, to be held in the Engineering Auditorium and 118 Nieuwland Science. The final round will be at 3:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium and will be broadcast by WSND. Immediately after, the awards will be presented.
The trophy for the winner is donated by Richard D. Schiller, a law student here at the University and former president of the Notre Dame Debate team. Schiller was on the team that won the Notre Dame Tournament in 1956. In addition, five plaques will be awarded, one to each of the semi-finalist schools, and one to the outstanding speaker of the tournament. Certificates will be presented to the rest of the top ten speak
ers.
This year the tournament has been expanded, with forty colleges and universities being invited. Besides such regulars as the four military academies, Augustana College, and Butler University, new participants include Morehouse College from Atlanta, Ga.; Rochester Institute of Technology; and Kent State; Cincinnati, and Florida University.
Representing Notre Dame will be two sophomore debaters, I Guy Powers and Jay Whitney, who will argue both sides of i the topic, “Resolved: that further development of nuclear weapons should be prohibited by international agreement.”
Whitney is from Burbank, Calif., and enrolled in Chemical ( Engineering. He is a regular in the NROTC program and upon graduation will serve four years in the Navy. At that time he intends to enter law school.	1
Powers is from Forest Hills, N.Y. He is a student in the J General Program and plans to go on to graduate school. Eventually he intends to teach.
Both Whitney and Powers debated extensively in high school and as freshmen here rapidly earned a place for them- , selves on the debate team. They have been on winning teams at tournaments at Butler University, Spring Hill College, and together recently ranked second at the University of Maryland. Whitney debated in the Notre Dame tournament last year ri and with Jack Martzell went to the nationals at West Point.
INTERHALL COMPETITION
It was in Indianapolis that Notre Dame’s first debating team met Butler University in the first match in the history of the school. That first debate was in 1899 and commenced sixty years of debate. In commemoration of this interim, in which Notre Dame and Butler have continually clashed, the two teams intend to meet later this year in a special exhibi- 4 tion debate.
Back in those early days of debate, the teams were or- r<> ganized differently from today’s tournament styles. Each of the halls, Sorin, Brownson, Corby and Holy Cross, had debate teams in those days. These men would come together and engage in an interhall tournament much as today for basketball, handball, etc. From these teams came those who would ( represent the University in intercollegiate meets.
It is significant, too, that these were meets and not tournaments. Only two schools were involved in the debates, the * hosts and the visitors. One team of three men would travel to another school and debate the team of that school on either the affirmative or the negative side of the question.
TUXEDOED DEBATERS	’
Contrast this with the situation today. Two debaters make 4 up the modern team, and most of the debates take place in tournaments where numerous schools are present. And now, a team must be able to present both the affirmative and negative side of a question involved.
Notre Dame won that first debate with Butler and continued on until by 1912 they had won 19 matches and had lost ' only one. This was a rather formidable record for a small school in the Midwest, since the competition included such « teams as Iowa, Ohio State, and Georgetown, the oldest debating group in the United States.
In 1912, Notre Dame entered into a triangular debating league with Indiana University and Wabash College. With these debates, Notre Dame often entered both a negative and
The Scholastic
U
an affirmative team of three men each. Another aspect of the change debating has undergone since then is that those men debated formally, that is, in tuxedos.
Throughout the years the topics have not differed greatly, despite the other numerous changes in style and format. In 1905, in a match against Oberlin College, Notre Dame debated the question of whether labor and capital should be compelled to settle their disputes through legally constituted boards of arbitration. Last year the topic was whether the requirement of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be illegal. The topics usually concern political and economic questions, and in past years have included the admission of Red China to the United Nations, guaranteed annual wage, and the discontinuance of economic aid to foreign countries. In recent years the national debate question for the year is determined by a polling of the debate coaches from the various colleges and universities.
CURRENT RECORD
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., distinguished himself in the collegiate debating sphere in these early years of forensic activity. He served as debate coach from 1910 until 1928 * and kept Notre Dame rising in the field of debate. Under the direction of Father Bolger the interhall teams were molded in the first university-wide debate team. From a group of from 50 to 60 students who took part in elimination rounds ■ of competitive debating, he selected eight for his varsity team.
During this period the scope of debate began to widen. The duration of the debate season up to that time lasted for only from three to four weeks. Now the season begins from the time the debaters are notified of the topic in August until even after the West Point Nationals in May. It is a year round season of active competition.
When the Wranglers were formed in 1925 it was as a supplementary organ to debate. Father Bolger was the first honorary president of the Wranglers. This group encouraged the idea of traditional interhall debates, and revived campus । oratory. In 1927, the debate team debated the University of Sydney, Australia, in Washington Hall. This interhall activity, under the auspices of the Wranglers, increased the interest and importance of debating at Notre Dame.
From 1928 to 1933, the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., a former outstanding debater, and professor of Economics, assumed the coaching position of the team. Father Boland later* became Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the Uni-► versity.
After Father Boland and until the interruption of debate by the second World War, Prof. William J. Coyne held the position of director of forensics. Prof. Coyne was the first
GUY POWERS, JAY WHITNEY, THOMAS BANCHOFF
March 6, 1959
winner of the Dome award, which is the highest ranking student award given by the University, and was the first student president of the Wranglers.
With the end of the war the control of the debate team came into the hands of Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, who has handled the team for the past fourteen years. Under his direction the Notre Dame debate teams have won 1950 debates and lost 452 up to this date. In this time they have also qualified for the national championships eleven times.
This current season, the team has so far compiled a record of 71 victories and 21 defeats. The team was off to a good start, winning second place trophies in their first two tournaments, out of thirty schools at St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia, and out of fifteen schools at Wake Forest College in Winston-Salem, N. Car. The novice debaters fared well, going undefeated in winning the Xavier University Midwest Catholic debate championship.
Then followed a decline, with no trophies at Pittsburgh, Miami, and Northwestern. Their comeback included a defeat of Marquette here in the Student Centei- amphitheater for the Coffey-Martzell trophy and a first place trophy and two speaker medals at the Azalea Tournament at Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala. Two weeks ago the team placed fourth at the University of Maryland Capitol Hill Tournament held, in College Park, Md.
The rest of the tournament schedule for this year include Brooklyn College in New York, the National Qualifying Tournament, the University of Cincinnati, Marquette University, and the West Point Nationals if the team qualifies in the Midwest regional eliminations.
Over the years the reputation of the debate team has grown and although Notre Dame has never won the national championship, she has been continually rated among the top teams in the nation.
FORTY TEAMS TO MEET HERE
The Notre Dame tournament has grown in the past seven years and now presents a field of competition among forty schools. Participation is by invitation and Prof. Sommer has indicated his policy of inviting the top teams in the nation as well as encompassing wide geographic distribution. It is one of the few tournaments at which all four service academies are present.
The current president of the team is senior Robert Dempsey of New Ulm, Minn. He has been a member of the debate team for three years and has done much to expand the activities of the team, being general chairman of the tournament last year and this year as president engaging debaters in discussion programs over WSND.	-
For the tournament this year the General Chairman is Thomas Banchoff. Reservations were handled by Maurice O’Sullivan. Registration and awards were taken care of by Jerry Goudreau. In charge of publicity was Joel Haggard. Tabulations are in the hands of William Barrett, and the debate luncheon is being handled by John Sullivan. Richard Meece is in charge of the timekeepers, who are Notre Dame and St. Mary’s debaters.	•
The following is a list of tournament. Albion College Augustana College Bellarmine College Bradley University Brooklyn College ' Butler University Case Institute of Technology Cincinnati, University of Dartmouth College Duke University Florida, University of Fordham, University of Illinois, University of John Carroll University Kent State University Kentucky, University of Loyola University Marquette University Michigan State College Miami, University of
the participants in the debate
Morehouse College Mundelein College Nebraska, University of Northwestern University Ohio University
Pennsylvania, University of .	.
Pittsburgh, University of
Rochester Institute of Technology St. John’s University South Carolina, University of U. S. Air Force Academy
U. S. Merchant Marine Academy
U. S. Military Academy -U. S. Naval Academy
Wake Forest College
Western Michigan College, Men Western Michigan College, Women Wheaton College
Wisconsin State College .	'
Notre Dame, University of
Leisure...
The Basis of Goss and Whetsei
Enjoyment is a strange thing. It depends on so many things, and so many things depend on it. It is possible to appreciate Clement Jannequin and Franz Lehar, but not in the same breath. One must learn to restrain certain facets of his enjoyment, releasing them only when the situation calls for it. Goss and Whetsei didn’t call for much. They couldn’t, for the very simple fact that they can’t possibly call loud enough. Therefore, it took very little to satisfy them. As soon as the audience realizes this, things should go well. And I think they did last Friday night.
To criticize a performance such as the one Goss and Whet-sel gave from a musical standpoint is difficult. When sheer musical talent is so microscopic as to be unnoticeable, it behooves one to be silent. And yet both of them sang, and I noticed the Baldwin on the stage, so I naturally thought that they would use music in some way. They really didn’t.
Musical comedy is a fascinating abortion. I have always felt that the comedy was to be found in the music. This becomes fairly obvious when one hears the pathetic moans of Ado Annie or the sickeningly noble monologues of Billy Bigelow and tries to compare them with Ulrica in the Masked Ball or Tonio in Pagliacci. It really is musical comedy.
When 60 cc’s of this frivolous fluid is injected into an audience, the repercussion should be gigantic. There is an antidote, however, and if one follows it, the results can be satisfying. One must be dogmatically careful not to rise above the level of the performance. If one does, the injuries are complicated even more.
Neither* Goss nor Whetsei have voices. Yet both can put a song across. Goss, a combination of Howard Keel and Snooky Lanson without either’s voice, is enjoyable. Whetsei, who looks like Bess Meyerson without the mink, is pleasant. Their accompanist, who looked as historically bored as all accompanists, was intriguing. The combination of the three was refreshing to watch, providing you didn’t watch too closely. Goss satisfies a light-headed audience as easily as Alka-Seltzer. Whetsei whets an appetite as easily as potato chips. And the accompanist played Brahms well.
OX, IVAN, YOU EXPLAIN IT.
20
The applause which greeted them was sometimes rhythmic, which is disastrous. When an audience claps in 4-4 time, it’s » an indication that the pulsation of their blood is rising. But for the most part, the audience (myself included) was able to lower its tastes, and I personally left Washington Hall feeling as if I had tasted a semi-cured ham. That taste was rather * good, really. As soon as Father Harvey gets out of the infirmary, I’ll have another chance to taste it. I understand The Boy Friend is going to be served with pineapple rings.
/i
NOTES	1
Juilliard’s string quartet makes its annual pilgrimage to Washington Hall on March 6. They’ve programmed Mozart’s < d minor, Dvorak’s op. 51, and the second quartet of Ginastera (the Argentine modern).
This Sunday, at 1:30 p.m., Bill Jungels, student poet ; from the General Program, will preview some of his writings that will appear in the forecoming issue of the Juggler on the “Festival of the Arts” program, on WSND.
Professor Ernest Sandeen and Professor John Logan will read some of their poetry in the Art Gallery at 8:15	\
p.m. on Thursday, March 5, and Thursday, March 12.	|
-------------------------------------------------------------- t
MASS SCHEDULE
March 7
Mass (white) St. Thomas Aquinas 2nd prayer of Saturday of 3rd wk. of Lent 3rd prayer for vocations
or----
Mass (purple) Saturday of 3rd wk. of Lent 2nd prayer of St. Thomas 3rd prayer for vocations
March 8
Mass (rose or purple) Fourth Sunday of Lent
March 9
Mass (white) St. Frances of Borne 2nd prayer of Monday of 4th wk. of Lent 3rd prayer for vocations
or----
Mass (purple) Monday of 4th week of Lent 2nd prayer of St. Frances 3rd prayer for vocations
March 10
Mass (purple) Tuesday of 4th wk. of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
March 11
Mass (purple) Wednesday of 4th wk. of Lent
March 12
Mass; (white) St. Gregory 2nd prayer of Thursday of 4th wk. of Lent 3rd prayer for vocations
or —'■—
Mass (purple) Thursday of 4th wk. of Lent 2nd prayer of St. Gregory 3rd prayer for vocations
March 13
Mass (purple) Friday of the 4th wk. of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
N.B.—In the above Masses the preface is that of Lent.
The Scholastic
|	MINISTRY
or
r wac
4	by TONY de HARO
I Nikolai Provost stood in his darkened office, smoking an expensive cigar and * watching moonlit Moscow fighting the fires caused by the bombs. The air-raid > siren wailed ovei’ the dead and Provost flicked on the lights. It was over—the Minister of War smiled and remembered when the hated Cathedral of Saint Basil inside the very Kremlin had gone up in flames.
*	Checking the reports on his desk, he found no misleadings about the objec-* tive of the raid.
“Oslo, Norway: American bombers crossed polar cap, heading south. . .”
“Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: American bombers suspiciously approaching Moscow...”
*	And they had come.
That was an hour ago. Now all the ► planes, except the one that had made the forced landing, were literally pulverized. The American ambassador had been called to verify the origin of the aircraft and papers found in it because u no retaliation could be made on pure suppositions. However, Russian pilots were well over the Pole already.
The telephone rang and Provost knew it could be no one but the ambassador.
“Provost, you have no idea how shock-
(Continued on page 32)
At the Movies
AVON
The Doctor’s Dilemma: (Feb. 26-March 11). This witty story by George Bernard Shaw is one of the rare combinations of comedy and tragedy. At some places both clash, but in general the movie turns out to be what you would expect of Shaw. Dirk Bogarde and Leslie Caron play the leads, and Alastair Sim and Robert Morley can be called brilliant in the roles of a pair of ludicrous doctors. In color.
The Naked Eye: (March 12-14). A truly unusual motion picture is coming to town next week. This one shouldn’t be taken lightly. Its subtitle is “The Story of the Art and Fun of Photography” and includes the work of such notables as Weegee, Margaret Bourke-White, Alfred Eisenstaedt, and many others. The musical score was written by Elmer (Man With the Golden Arm) Bernstein and the narration is by Raymond Massey. Contributors of matertai include Life and the Library of Congress. The movie certainly promises to be a treat for those wanting to see something different, and worthy of an Academy Award nomination in the documentary film category.
Co-Feature: The Circle. Used mostly as fill-up for time.
COLFAX
The Black Orchid: (March 6-13). Working from the premise that there is some good in the worst of us, the movie has both good and weak moments. There is a strong suggestion throughout the movie that Sophia Loren has finally exchanged her body for an acting career. Anthony Quinn, in the role of an aging widower, provides good professional balance.
GRANADA
The Hanaing Tree: (March 5-12). At the beginning of the picture, Maria Schell is suffering from shock after seeing the Indians massacre her family and Gai-y Cooper turns on his Freud in order to cure her, though in a rather unorthodox manner. Marta retaliates and turns on her charm, which is overpowering. Some tense moments broken up by dosages of harsh but expert humoi- by Karl Malden.
PALACE
The Journey: (March 5-18). Oh, what a fakeout! After evading the issue for some time, the Palace relented and started showing this movie, making this its third review with one more yet to go. If you still have last • week’s Scholastic, turn to this column to find out how Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner provide good entertainment with a brilliant assist from Jason Robards, Jr.
RIVER PARK
Showboat: (March 5-8). Edna Ferber’s book set to good music by Jerome Kern. Either a re-release or spring cleaning brought this one back. With Howard Keel, Kathryn Grayson, Ava Gardner, and Marge and Gower Champion.
Co-Hit: Peter Pan. Walt Disney’s spirited romp through the world of animated moppets and puppets, which paid off so handsomely in its original run, returns despite warnings. But the picture does not lack imagination and artistic taste, and has a couple of good songs in it. So run all the way to the River Park and help keep Uncle Waltie in the black, huh?
Houseboat: (March 12-15). Cary Grant has three kids badly in need of some old-fashioned psychology and Sophia Loren has a knack for winning the hearts of all four. When he is coerced into buying a houseboat, well-preserved fary meets all problems with his usually quiet hysteria. Wholesome fun.
STATE
A Nice Little Bank that Should Be Robbed: (March 5-12). The title runs almost as long as the movie itself, but even that isn’t long enough. Blundering Tom Ewell, now cured of his seven-year itch, joins 36-year-old kid Mickey Rooney and they try to rob a bank to the best of their abilities which, thank goodness, lean toward comedy. However, most people will be shocked to find out that Andy Hardy has gone lawless.
Co-Hit:. Gang War. An entirely old, boredom-packed plot comes to the screen with convincing fakeness. But we already know: there are no juvenile delinquents, only delinquent parents. And the parents give the kids a run for their money. Starring a refugee Boston Blackie (Kent Taylor) and that idol of the bobby-soxers, Gerald Carrier. Distributed by the J. Allen Beirne Organization.	'
—Tony Wong
March 6, 1959
the TOP name in industry
GENERAL MOTORS
wants TOP talent Missilemen
AC SPARK PLUG, THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS, has IMMEDIATE openings for permanent positions in MILWAUKEE and FLINT for engineers and designers on Thor-Mace-Regulus missiles and other advanced projects. If you have a BS, MS or Ph.D. degree in EE, Physics, Math, or ME, you may qualify for one of the positions listed below.
You can exploit your talents to the fullest degree at AC. For every AC engineer has access to the finest equipment ... at all AC facilities.
AC and GM gladly assist your career progress through financial assistance for graduate study at first class engineering schools in nearby locations. In addition, you will have the opportunity to take exclusive on-the-job course work on the advanced state of the art.
DIGITAL COMPUTER ENGINEERS—Logic design of special purpose computers ... Pulse Circuit Design ... Airborne Digital Computers . . . Memory Design . . . Analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion. Milwaukee
TRANSISTOR APPLICATION ENGINEERS—Applied development in the field of transistor circuitry. Flint & Milw.
GYRO ENGINEERS—Work on floated, integrating gyroscopes and gyro-accelerometers for inertial guidance systems for missiles. Milwaukee
INFRA-RED DEVELOPMENT—Development of the theoretical concepts that will advance the state of the art of infra-red system applications. Hint
SYSTEMS ENGINEERS—Systems design, analysis and instrumentation of inertial guidance. Milwaukee
OPTICS—The development of optics and optical instrumentation. A general knoweldge of military optical systems and commonly used optical and mechanical components is required. Hint
PRODUCT DESIGN ENGINEERS—Design, development and test of electronic cortiponents, servos and circuits. Hint and Milwaukee
TEST ENGINEERS—Design and development of production test equipment . . . environmental test instrumentation and data reduction . . . ground support equipment. Flint and Milwaukee
HELD ENGINEERS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ASSIGNMENTS—Electronics technicians or recent technical graduates may qualify for top training on inertial guidance, bombing navigational systems, gyro computers, etc.
TECHNICAL WRITERS—Electro-mechanical or electronic writing experience. Must be able to work with engineers in the writing of service manuals. Hint and Milwaukee
See Your Placement Officer to Schedule General Motors Interview March 18
AC SPARK PLUG
the Electronics Division of General Motors
MILWAUKEE 1, WISCONSIN	HINT 2, MICHIGAN
The Scholastic
Sponi& Pietw
4 Swimmers Win Again; » Boost Mark Over .500
Jordanmen Close Season
t Marquette;
Hawkins, Duffy, and Reinhart in final Game
Tomorrow the Irish swimmers, now sporting a 4-4-1 record, meet North Central College at Naperville, Ill. The meet, originally planned as an invitational tournament, has been changed to a dual meet. The Irish met North Cen> tral earlier in the year, suffering a 54-32 defeat.
Last Friday the Irish tankmen posted a 59-27 triumph over Central Michigan, taking seven first places. One Notre Dame varsity record was set by Mike Mahaney. Mahaney’s :23.8 in the 50-yard freestyle clipped one-tenth of a > second off the old varsity record. Joe Cronin took second in this event.
The 400-yard medley relay team of Jim Garrity, George May, Tom Moran, , and Gene Witchger took another first place for the Irish frogmen.
•• In the 220-yard freestyle race, Co-Cap-tain Tom Londrigan copped another ► first while Dick Nagle the other Irish co-captain came in third.
Tony Haske won the 200-yard butterfly event, supported by teammate Dick Dunn’s second place. Notre Dame’s Joe . Meany and Frank Dinger took second * and third respectively in the 100-yard freestyle race. The 440-yard freestyle was won by Nagle with Dunn second.
Ga'rrity and Dick Katis finished one-two in the 200-yard backstroke event. In the 200-yard breaststroke race, Cappert and Pope finished second and third respectively.
As usual, Paul Chestnut took top honors in the diving event, with Jim Can-oil ’ finishing second for the Irish swimmers. This was Chestnut’s ninth win in ten * meets this year.
Basketball bows out of the 1958-1959 Notre Dame sports picture tomon-ow afternoon in the Fieldhouse when the Marquette Warriors face the Irish of Coach Johnny Jordan. The Irish will be out to avenge a 95-76 defeat suffered at the hands of the Warriors in Milwaukee two weeks ago. Also a win would give the Irish a 12-13 record for the season.
The game will mark the final home appearance for three Notre Dame seniors —Co-Captains Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy, and Tom Reinhart. All three will be starters.
The Warriors, already invited to the NCAA tournament, will bring a 20-3 record into the ball game.
The starting five for the Warriors will average 6-4, topped by Mike Moran at 6-9. Moran scored 39 points against the Irish in the Marquette victory two weeks ago. He has a deadly left-handed hook and has a soft easy tap-in shot. He is averaging about 20 points per game.
Marquette’s guards, Jim McCoy and Jim Kollar, have been the playmakers for the squad all season. They also run Coach Ed Hickey’s well-respected fast break. It was the fast break, coupled with tremendous shooting, that broke the Irish defense in the first game. McCoy has a long deadly jump shot, and Kollar can hit from everywhere on the court.
The forwards are 6-6 Don Kojis and 6-4 Walt Mangham. Both of these players are top rebounders and with Moran give the Warriors one of the finest front
lines in the country. Kojis is only a sophomore but has fit into Coach Hickey’s offense well. He has a fine jump shot from the top of the key. Mangham also can hit from the foul circle but is noted primarily for his tremendous jumping ability.
Monday night the Irish won their eleventh game of the season over Valparaiso, 93-65, in the Fieldhouse, pie Irish were never pushed after they broke from a 23-21 lead and pushed the margin up to 52-38 at the end of the half.
Coach Jordan pulled his regulars with about twelve minutes left in the second half, and the reserves played the rest of the way. Emmett McCarthy and Mickey Bekelja both played well and helped steady the shoddy play of the other reserves. McCarthy hit four of five from the field for eight points. Bekelja hit on three shots for six.
Hawkins and Graney led the Irish attack with 27 and 21 points respectively. Hawkins hit 15 free throws, a season high for the squad, in gathering his 27-point total. Graney hit for 17 of his 21 in the first half, plus pulling down 14 rebounds.
The 93 points was also a season high for the squad.	—Dick Ciccone
Badin Interhall Champion; Awarded President's Trophy
Badin Hall was awarded the President’s Trophy for 1958 last Monday evening at a halftime ceremony of the Notre Dame-Valparaiso basketball game. Badin also won this award when it was first introduced in 1956. Dillon was the 1957 winner.
The President’s Trophy is awarded on the basis of a point system which divides interhall athletics into three categories. There are team sports, individual sports with team competition, and individual sport with individual competition. Points are awarded to the top four halls in each sport of the above three categories. The points won in team competition are weighted more heavily than points won by individuals.
Football, basketball, baseball, softball, and volleyball are the team sports included in Notre Dame interhall athletics. The individual sports with team competition are indoor track, novice boxing, open boxing, cross-country, gymnastics, swimming, and wrestling. Golf, tennis, and handball are based on individual competition.	'
Points toward the winning of the President’s Trophy are awarded only for those sports which are supervised by the Interhall Athletic Department. This department is headed by Mr. Dominic Napolitano.
March 6, 1959
Bowling Season Extended; Will Continue Through April
Although the regular schedule calls for completion of competition in the Kampus Keglers leagues during the week preceding Easter vacation, the officers of the Kampus Keglers have decided to extend the season an additional three weeks.
Due to the tightness in the race for first place in several leagues, the interest in the leagues is still very high, and it was decided that two months prior to the end of the semester is too soon to end the leagues.
A system foi* extending the season has been devised, and it will operate in such a manner as to be as fair as possible to every team. The season will be extended three weeks with the week of April 20-26 being the last week of competition.
The Kampus Kegler tournament for the campus championship will be held during the last week of April. The Kampus Kegler banquet will be held at the K. of C. hall sometime during the week after the Senior Prom.
Immediately following the Kampus Kegler tourney, a contest will be held on week ends to determine the campus singles champion. This will be a handicap tournament, and all students who have an established average in a campus league will be eligible. A minimum of 21 games must have been rolled to have an established average in a league. Those interested in the singles tourney may sign up on the sheet posted on the bulletin board in the bowling alley office.	—Ed Silliman
Classic
LaSalle Hotel .............. 54%-13%
Project Construction  ..... 51 -17
Ted Nekic, 202, 204, 204—610; Mike Bentley, 215, 196, 191—602; Jerry Albers, 245; Larry Naymic, 238; Frank Prantil, 234; Mike Sammon, 234; John Diebel, 221; Denny Panozzo, 221; Don Dvorak, 219; Bill Dowdall, 218; Frank Prebenda, 215; Fred Vida, 208; Tom Jablonski, 204, 202; Ray Grubbe, 203, 201; Dan Halloran, 200.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 193; Ray Grubbe, 187; Tom Jablonski, 181.
Kampus Keglers—Red
Detroit Club “A” __________ 53 -15
Holy Rollers “A” ___________ 48%-19%
John Curran, 214, 195, 151—560; Len Trotta, 181, 181, 187—549; Em Sharkey, 214; Joe Lund, 199.
Averages: John Curran, 181; Jerry Cangiano, 174; Pat Heenan, 174; Earl Mossner, 174.
Kampus Keglers—White
St. Louis Club ________________47-21
Frisbees _____________________ 44-24
Jack Murphy, 140, 210, 241—591; Fred Hoey, 171, 191, 201—563; Bob Brown, 210; Paul Lovell, 205.
24
Swordsmen End Season With 13-2 Record; Enter Three-Man Squad In NCAA Tourney
After finishing regular season play with a record of 13 wins and two losses, the Irish fencers are now looking forward to the NCAA tournament which will be held at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., on March 27-28.
“Under NCAA rules,” says ND coach Walter Langford, “each school is only able to send three men, one for the sabre, epee, and foil. Thus it is more an individual competition than a team competition.”
The official announcement of the three fencers who will represent Notre Dame in the NCAA meet has not been made as yet but will be announced shortly.
“The Naval Academy expects more than 36 schools. Some of the small schools with only mediocre teams might have three good fencers and thus be in competition. On this basis it is hard to predict how we will do. Our squad is more of a well-balanced one, but we have some fine men and expect to do well.”
The NCAA competition is a round robin meet. Thus if there are 38 teams
Averages: Fred Hoey, 171; Jerry Albers, 170; M. Kubiak, 166.
Kampus Keglers—Blue
North-West Motor Service ..... 51-17
Detroit Club “B” ............. 46-22
Tom Jablonski, 193, 194, 218—605; Fred Vida, 216, 168, 199—583; Dick Donovan, 224; Jim Lefere, 208; Harv ‘Frem, 200.
Averages: Ray Grubbe, 184; Tom Jablonski, 183; Fred Vida, 179.
Kampus Keglers—Yellow
Cleveland Club “B” ........... 45%-22%
Cleveland Club “A” .......... 45 -23
Jim Flannery, 194, 233, 193—620;
Denny Panobbo, 193, 178, 200—571;
Stan Pecora, 217; Prairie, 200.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 191; Jim Flannery, 179; Denny Panozzo, 176.
Kampus Keglers—Green
Fighting Five ................ 39-21
Padres ....................... 38-20
Mike Sammon, 191, 224, 146—561; Fr. Shea, 178, 168, 211—557; Fr. Baxter, 212; Fr. Brennan, 210; Pete Tummillo, 200.
Averages: Fr. Shea, 177; Fr. Baxter, 166; Fr. Brennan, 163.
Geographical Clubs
Capital District “B” ................ 19-5
Capital District “A” _________________ 19-5
Fred Hoey, 175, 178, 177—530; Ray Maturi, 171, 212, 134—517; Dennie McCarthy, 181; Fred Heimall, 174.	‘
Averages: Fred Hoey, 163; Ray Maturi, 151; Bill Leser, 151.
entered for instance in the foil divi- ' sion, Notre Dame’s representative will have to fence 37 times in two days.
Last year Notre Dame placed tenth in team ranking. Langford’s top foilman, Jim Russomano last yeai- was an NCAA official All-American.
Last Saturday the Notre Dame fenc- < ers finished their season at Madison, Wise., where they met the Universities of Illinois and Wisconsin in a triangular meet. The Irish beat Wisconsin, 16-11, but lost to Illinois, 14-13. This was Wisconsin’s first defeat of the season and their first since being beaten by the Irish last season.	, -
Notre Dame won all three divisions -against Wisconsin. They took the foil, jd 6-3, and the sabre and epee, 5-4.
Jim Russomano notched three victories in the foil, while Jerry Johnson and John Lauerman turned in 2-1 and 1-2 i records respectively.	1
In the epee Co-Captain Jim Jock tai-lied three times in the win column. Jim Brogan, Dan Clancy, John Donlon, and J'l Dave Schwartz had 1-1, 0-2, 0-1, and 1-0 performances respectively.
Co-Captain Joe Klein was a threetime winner in the sabre. His mates, Pat Green and Tom Lee were 0-3 and , 2-1.	£
Against Illinois, as against the Air Force Academy, the Irish lost the meet f by one touch. It takes five touches to win a bout and, after the fencers had rallied from 9-3 and 13-9 scores to tie the meet, they lost the final and deciding bout, 5-4.
Notre Dame won the epee from Illinois by a score of 5-4. Jock had two . victories and one defeat. Brogan was 0-1; John Ronayne, 2-1; and Pete . Giaimo, 1-1.
ND lost the sabre, 5-4. Joe Klein won two while losing one. Pat Green and Tom Lee both had 1-2 records.
In losing the foil by the same score 5-4, Russomano was 2-1 while Johnson and Lauerman were'both 1-2.	*
“We were at our season’s best against ■ Wisconsin,” says Langford, “but against Illinois we were utterly different. We . had a great season this year. We saw our 25-meet win streak snapped by the . Air Force, but we hope to start an even ’ longer one next year.”	.
In the third meet at Madison, Wis., we / bounced back to defeat Illinois. 16-11.
Jim Russomano was the leader in the $ foil division with a season’s record of r-34 wins and four losses. He was followed in that division by Jerry John- . son and John Lauerman with 29-7 and 26-8 records.
Jim Jock took honors in the epee with : a record of 27 and 10. Jim Brogan was 14 and 13, and Dan Clancy was 12 and ’ 17.	.
In the sabre division, Joe Klein led f with a record of 23 victories and 10 losses. Teammates Pat Green and Tom Lee were 19-14 and 19-11 respectively, fe
The Scholastic fe
>
__________________________- ft
Gregory Second in IC4A Mile; CCC's in Chicago Tomorrow
TIME OUT
Ron Gregory and Dave Cotton were the only two Irish trackmen who placed in the annual IC4A championships at Madison Square Garden. Gregory finished second, far back of the defending champion, Peter Close in the college mile; Gregory’s time was 4:16.5. Cotton placed fifth in the two-mile run. The team title was won by Manhattan. Eight top boys from the Irish squad made the trip. They were: Gregory, Cotton, Jerry Fitzpatrick, Glen Cividin, Tom Reichert, Ray Ratkowski, Chris Monahan, and Steve Dombach.
In the field events, Cividin tied for first in the pole vault at a height of 14 feet. Reichert tied for fifth in the pole vault at 13 feet.
Tomorrow afternoon the entire Irish team will be at the University of Chicago for the Central Collegiate Conference meet. Among the other teams that will be represented are: Marquette, Wheaton, Loyola, Central Michigan, and strong Western Michigan.
The Irish hopes are at least partially pinned on Gregory, the fastest miler in the history of the school. He holds the school record for the mile at 4:10 and the Fieldhouse record for the two-mile with a time of 9:14.6.
Fitzpatrick, another sophomore, will be counted on in the broad jump, in which he has leaped 23 feet, eight inches, and in the 60-yard dash. Dornbach, the team captain, will be out to better the school indoor record of :07.4 in the 60-yard high hurdles.
Western Michigan won the Centrals last year by edging the Irish, 53% to 52%. This ended a four-year Notre Dame domination of the championship.
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks TONIGHT
St. Louis over Oklahoma City
TOMORROW
Bradley over Cincinnati (upset) Illinois over Northwestern Indiana over Wisconsin
Michigan State over Iowa Kansas State over Missouri Marquette over Notre Dame Michigan over Minnesota Brigham Young over New Mexico Purdue over Ohio State Oklahoma State over Colorado St. Bonaventure over Canisius
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame over Georgetown ’ (in the College Quiz Bowl)
LAST WEEK
: i 17 right, three wrong, 85 per cent
;	TOTALS TO DATE
।	86 right, 27 wrong,. 76 per cent
J
I : lHarch 6, 1959
Following his visit to the Notre Dame campus, Sports Illustrated’s Columnist Budd Schulberg reported in the April 4, 1955 issue of this national sports weekly what he observed of Notre Dame’s Bengal Bout program. Here is the main content of that article; it is still very APROPOS.
“On an average of once a week some kindly soul comes up .to me and lowers this boom: I simply can’t understand what you see in boxing. Two men whacking the whey out of each other like a couple of Neanderthals! I think it’s brutal and degrading. I’d like to see it abolished.
“Next time this little firecracker is tossed in my path, I’m going to say: Go see the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. You’ll see boys battling harder for the University championships than some heavyweights have fought for the championship of the world. You will see contestants beautifully conditioned and boxing under rales of safety precaution that have precluded any serious injury in the quarter-century history of the bouts. Here are boys who will fight their hearts out in the five-day tournament for pride and the pure sport of it.
“At the finals recently, 4,500 people — twice as many as paid admissions at Madison Square Garden a few nights later — roared their approval and shouted on their favorites throughout the rousing ten-match card. They weren’t rooting the underdog because they had bet on him and could double their money.
GENERATED EXCITEMENT
“This vibrant gathering of undergraduates, faculty, priests, and townspeople was as pure as the boxers, and they rocked the Fieldhouse with applause for both opponents as match after match produced a total absence of clinches, non-stop punching, and uncorrapted courage.
“Boxing has been a popular sport at Notre Dame since 1923 when it was first introduced by Knute Rockne. The association with the Bengal Mission began in 1931 and has been an annual feature of the Notre Dame sports program ever since. On the Notre Dame campus they credit a quietly vigorous and purposeful, fatherly little man, Dominic ‘Nappy’ Napolitano, with having established the ideal atmosphere of sportsmanship, safety, and lack of any commercial taint for these bouts.
“Nappy went to Notre Dame from Pleasantville, N.Y., in the late ’20’s, boxed there as a feathei-weight, fell in love with the campus, and — except for a three-year hitch as boxing instructor for the Navy — has lived and taught there ever since. Each year, some three months before the Bengal Bouts, 150 to 200 boys, many of whom have never had a glove on, put themselves in Nappy’s hands to prepare them for the tournament.
“Throughout the training period it is no exaggeration to say that Nappy worries about the welfare of each contestant with the personal concern of a father. He sees that they do their two-mile roadwork each day, their calisthenics, he instructs each boy personally and supervises their daily workouts with each other.
CAREFUL, INTENSIVE TRAINING
“By the time they are ready to enter the ring they have trained as carefully, as intensely, and as long as Rocky Marciano prepares for a defense of his title.
“But Rocky’s fights and the ones Nappy Napolitano directs are worlds apart. No Bengal Bouter is allowed to take the kind of punishment Ezzard Charles absorbed from Rocky last summer. Through Nappy’s advice, the padding on the ring floor is two inches thick, and the referee is instructed to stop a bout the moment an opponent is dazed and in danger of being hit at will. ‘This is a contest, like any other sport,’ Napolitano says. ‘In a sense it is the purest contest we have. When it ceases to be that, stop it. Don’t let the boy get hurt.’
“Out at Notre Dame this stocky, paternal little fellow Nappy, the genial coach and director for the bouts; the campus Knights of Columbus chapter which sponsors the bouts; and the boys who keep punching from bell to bell can show you what boxing can be like at its honest best. They have never lost sight of the fact that boxing, for all its seamy, nether side, is a great, basic, and undeniable competitive sport.” — T.T.
PICTURE YOUR
FUTURE
IN THIS
Tennis Preview ' Mexico?• •.
by Tim O’Reilly
All but final approval has been given for a trip to Mexico for Coach Tom Fallon and his tennis team during the Easter vacation. They will meet some of the top tennis clubs in Mexico in a round-robin tournament with the winner being awarded a trophy donated by the Notre Dame club of Mexico City. Such a trip would be the first ever taken by the tennis squad.	4
The netmen have been practicing indoors at the Fieldhouse since the start of the present semester and will move outdoors as soon as the weather permits. The first I intercollegiate competition will be in a quadrangular meet at Ohio State April 17	.
where they will meet Ohio State, Denison, and Ohio Wesleyan. The first home meet = of the season will be April 21 against Western Michigan.
Looking for a solid, satisfying career with a vigorous company in a growing industry? American Air Filter Company, Louisville, Kentucky — world’s largest manufacturer of air filters, dust control, heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment — needs graduate engineers to fill responsible jobs in sales, engineering and production in its 173 field offices and eleven manufacturing plants located in seven cities.
Next summer AAF will inaugurate its next five-month technical training course for a select group of engineering graduates. This full-time program combines classroom work, under the direction of competent instructors, with field trips to both company plants and large industrial users of AAF products.
A representative of American Air Filter will visit the campus to interview interested seniors on
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11
Make an appointment, now, through your Placement Office.
Aaericon Air liter
Cwapaay, Inc.
Louisville, Kentucky
Commenting on the coming season, Coach Fallon said he strong team as he lost only the number- six man from last up a 17-1 record, losing only to Iowa. He felt that the addition of two sophomores to the team, Don Relph and Bill Heinbecker, will more than compensate for the graduation loss.
Relph, from Bethesda, Md., appears to have nosed out Max Brown from the number one singles spot which he has held for three years. Relph has beaten Brown three times thus far this year in matches.
FIGHT FOR THIRD
Fighting for the number three slot behind Relph and Brown are Heinbecker-and Ron Schoenberg, team co-captain along with Brown. Heinbecker won the National JC doubles championship this summer.
Competition for the fifth and sixth positions on the team is hot and heavy with four leading applicants for the jobs. Sergio Garza, Hector Cabello, Charlie Stephens, and Ray Bender are all in the thick of the fight.
Brown and Heinbecker looms as the number one doubles combination with Relph and Schonberg in second slot. The third doubles combination depends a lot on the outcome of the battle for fifth and sixth singles positions, but Stephens and Bender seem to have the edge.
MICHIGAN AND IOWA
Coach Fallon feels Michigan and Iowa will be the toughest competition on the Irish schedule, along with Kalamazoo and Northwestern. Iowa will have most of the team returning which handed the Irish their lone setback last season while Michigan will be out for revenge after the Notre Dame netmen snapped the Wolverines’ 48-match winning streak last season.
New opponents on the schedule will be Ohio State and Purdue. The Boilermakers are back after a two-year layoff.
expected to have a year’s squad which ran
Matmen Home for Two; Host Warriors, Wheaton
This afternoon the Irish -matmen will attempt to raise their record above the .500 mark for the first time this season when they take on the Marquette Warriors in the Fieldhouse starting at four o’clock. The Warriors are unbeaten thus far this year.
Tomorrow afternoon following the basketball game the Irish wrestlers will try for their- first win over Wheaton in seven years. In the Wheaton Invitational two weeks ago the Irish tied the Wheaton matmen for fifth place. The Irish are stronger, but the Wheaton squad has a well-balanced outfit.
These two meets will be the final home action and the final dual meet action for the Notre Dame squad. Next week end the. Irish will close out their schedule by competing in the 41 tournament at Case Tech in Cleveland, Ohio.
Last week end the Irish grapplers won two dual meets to even their season record at 5-5. On Friday they took the measure of University of Cincinnati and Saturday defeated Miami of Ohio.
Jerry Sachsel continued his undefeated streak winning by a forfeit Friday and by pinning Rod Kim of Miami Saturday. Ed Finlay also won on a forfeit Friday and followed with a 7-3 decision over Bob Wiser of Miami.
Dominic Carbone and team Captain Bucky O’Connor both won their two matches. Dick Sapp and Bill Sheehy split their matches. Sapp lost to Cincinnati’s Bob Vega but came back to pin Miami’s Ward Davis on Saturday. Sheehy won his match on Friday, then lost to Dave Thomas of Miami, 6-2.
Coach Tom Fallon had words of praise for heavyweight Jim Kane despite the fact that he lost both of his matches.
■ ■
; t! f ?
26
The Scholastic
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN, Campus Rep* 263 Dillon	Ext. 631
CHARTER A~
OFFERS CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Visit The All New
ROCCO'S
18142 South Bend Ave.
Open Noon to 7:00 on Sundays
Entirely new and different Italian foods (also your favorite American dishes). We also specialize in seafoods. Our new turquoise room is available for PRIVATE PARTIES.
Phone CE 4-7224
in research and • development of missilo systems
Intermural Tourneys Begin This Saturday
Both campus intermural basketball leagues finish up regular season play this week and will begin elimination tournaments to determine league championships.
In the Interclub League which plays evenings in the Fieldhouse, two division titles have been decided while four others will be determined this week. In division one the Detroit White team won the title in a draw with the Met dub Red team after both teams finished league play in a tie. The Detroit team will represent the division in the tournament while the Met club team will be entered as an at-large entry.
The title in division two is undecided yet, but the Villagers appear to be the favorites. The Philadelphia club won the crown in division three while division four is still unsettled with the K. of C. in the lead.
The Army ROTC appears to have the title in division five sewed up with a game yet to play. The Monogram club will appear in the tournament as an at-large entry from division five. Kentucky Blue is ahead in the sixth division with a game left.
The tournament will begin this Sunday night, with the semifinals Monday night at seven and eight o’clock and the finals Tuesday night at eight. The winner of the tournament will be awarded a trophy donated by the Met club.
In the Interhall League, which is played at the Rockne Memorial, three divisions have been decided while three others will have to be played off.
Stanford White, Lyons Red, and Howard White were the winners in divisions one, two, and three respectively, each team going undefeated.
In division four, B-P Blue and Farley Green are tied and will play off, as are Stanford Gray and B-P Green in division five. Cavanaugh A and Pangborn Gold will play off in division six. The league tournament will start Saturday with the championship game being played on Tuesday.
Active participation in Space Research and Technology, Radio Astronomy, Missile Design and Development • Opportunity to expand your knowledge * Individual responsibility • Full utilization of your capabilities * Association with top-ranking men in field
o
Openings now in these fields
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING ’ APPLIED PHYSICS MATHEMATICS • MECHANICAL, METALLURGICAL, AERONAUTICAL AND CHEMICAL ENGINEERING Systems Analysis • Inertial Guidance • Computer Equipment • Instrumentation • Telemetering • Fluid Mechanics • Heat Transfer • Aerodynamics • Propellants
Materials Research
U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
March 16
AT PLACEMENT BUREAU
BASKETBALL BANQUET
The annual banquet for the Notre Dame basketball team will be held in the Knights of Columbus Hall at 6:30 p.m. on this coming Tuesday night, March 10. The Hall is located at 815 N. Michigan in downtown South Bend.
The event, sponsored by the Villagers, will feature Bill Haarlow, supervisor of Big Ten officials and former All-American at the University of Chicago, as its main speaker.
Tickets may be purchased at the Notre Dame ticket office on the first floor of Breen-Phillips Hall or at the door. The prices are $4.00 for adults and $3.00 for students.
27
March 6, 1959
Jim Byrne
(Continued from page 13) dent Editorial Advisory Board with the approval of the Faculty Advisory Board, or an unanimous decision of the three man Faculty Advisory Board.)
Later in the evening, Babbitt introduced a resolution, which was passed by voice vote, recommending that the selection board include as voting members the Scholastic editor, student body president, Dome editor, and senior class president.
Bill Graham, vice-president, and Student Affairs Commissioner Tom Cahill unveiled the plans for a Midwest Collegiate Jazz Festival to be held at Notre Dame on the afternoon and evening of April 11. Held in conjunction with Down Beat Magazine, it will include entries from all major colleges and universities in the Midwest. The winning group, in addition to receiving the prize money of $200, will be in line for an engagement at the Blue Note in Chicago, and all groups will be auditioned for a spot on the card of either the London House or Mister Kelly’s, or both. ■
900 Reservations Feature Junior-Parents Week End
Over 900 parents of Notre Dame juniors have made reservations for the annual Parent-Son week end to be held March 14 and 15. The registration which was closed on March 1 was very satisfactory according to wek-end officials. Accommodations for parents are available at the Morris Inn, Oliver, Hoffman, and LaSalle hotels.
The program for the week end is as follows. Saturday all parents will register in the Morris Inn between 8 a.m. and noon. Students whose parents will not be here until afternoon on Saturday are asked to register for their parents during this time period.
Saturday noon parents will be invited to eat in the East wing of the South (old) Dining Hall. Tickets for this meal will be available at the Morris Inn.
In the afternoon there will be several activities for the parents and their sons. The first will be a series of receptions held at the various colleges and ROTC buidings. At each reception the deans, faculty members and their wives will be present. Each reception will be held in the respective college building with the
exception of the Commerce reception which will be held in the LaFortune Student Center.
Other interests for visiting parents on Saturday include the showing of the movie “Campus Life” in the Law Building and tours of Lobund Institute. There will be a reception in some of the halls at which the rectors will be present.
In the evening a dinner with the president will be held in the New Dining Hall. This dinner, which will last from 7 to 9 pan., will be limited to 1,100 people, and tickets will be sold at the Morris Inn in the morning on a first come first serve basis.
After the dinner open house will be held in the Student Center at which the University officials will be present.
Sunday morning space will be reserved in Sacred Heart Church at the 9 a.m. Mass for students and their parents. Breakfast will be available for the week end guests in the Cafeteria and the East wing of the Old Dining Hall will be used to take care of the overflow.
Ed Butler, chairman of the Parent-son week end and president of the junior class, announced that information booths will be set up in all of the hotels and at the Morris Inn.
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best

AFTER SHAVE LOTION by SHULTON
The Scholastic
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO Dhi*ta>

Geographic Clubs Name '59 School Year Officers
Three geographical dubs have elected their new officers for the 1959-60 school year. The Pacific Northwest club elected Ron Blubaugh as its president and Joe Long as vice-president. The positions of secretary and treasurer were filled by Pat Kirk and Joel Haggard, respectively.
Dixie club elections resulted in Harry Henning becoming president and Dickie Schmidt vice-president. Curtis Baker and Ronald Pyle became recording sec-L retary and corresponding secretary.
Five new officers were selected by the Detroit Club. The office of president went to Dec O’Donnell; Terry Keating is now vice-president. As recording secretary and corresponding secretary, the club elected Denny McCarthy and Bob Battista. Pat McKeever is treasurer.
I ------------------------------------
DISCUSSES SEGREGATION ISSUE
The third in the Lenten Lecture Series sponsored by the YCS will feature a talk by the Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., on the topic “The Catholic and Segregation." It will
* be next Thursday at 8 p.m. in 104 O’Shaughnessy. Father Parry, who is head of the political science department, received his A.B. from Notre Dame, his M.A. from Georgetown, and his Ph.D. from Yale.
Last year Father Parry engaged in > a debate in the SCHOLASTIC with
Dean O’Meara of the Law School on this same controversial topic of segregation.
Major Talks to be Held Thursday for A.B. Sophs
Next Thursday evening all sopho-■ mores in the College of Arts and Letters who are eligible to begin their major sequence of studies next semester will meet in the Law Auditorium. At this meeting, which will begin at 7:30 pan., Father Sheedy, Dean of Arts and Letters, and Mr. Devere Plunkett, Assistant Dean, will speak concerning the students’ choice of a major sequence. This meeting is obligatory for all sophomores who expect to major in Arts and Letters next semester.
Between next Friday and Thursday, March 19, the various departments will hold informal question and answer ses-, sions in the LaFortune Student Center.
These informal meetings will be held at different times so that a student may attend as many of them as he wishes. At these meetings both a faculty member and students currently in the particular department will be present to answer questions about their department or explain the different facets of their major programs. Refreshments will be served at all of these meetings.
The sponsor of this program, called “Meet Your Major,” is the AB Advisory Board. The program director is Paul Priebe, a junior political science major.
March 6, 1959
Quiz Team
(Continued from page 11) in which the team excells. Brian Moran is a member of the University's bridge team and is well versed in card games. Andrew Connelly is familiar with the theater and associated subjects, while John Bellairs, writer of “Escape” has an uncanny ability to recall assorted odd facts.
If the team can return victorious they will have not only brought some measure of fame to the school, but they will have succeeded in acquiring for the school a $1,500 addition to the scholarship fund, and this amount is received each week they continue to win. The team would appreciate it if students would find time to watch the program this Sunday at 4 p.m.	’
—Charles Tausche
To err is human... to erase, divine with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
Try it I Just the flick of a pencil-eraser and your typing errors are gone! It’s like magic! The special surface of Corrasable Bond erases without a trace. Your first typing effort is the finished copy when Corrasable puts things right. This fine quality bond gives a handsome appearance to all your work. Saves time and money, too!
Erasable Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weightsand onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire, Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION Qg) PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
EURO P El
DaHm to the bum Certaaa; Mnee	''
Yoe’re im^ioii onr herded ih—I C* lege groope. Abo shorter trim	.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS	*
255 Seqooia (Boo 6)	P>ndam, Ori. £
^kWTURBOW
\OPTOMKTTUST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINEO CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-5777
ARMY - NAVY | AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales Brasso. ROTC Collar Insignia You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
DEUNQUENT JUNIORS!
All juniors who have failed to have their pictures taken for the 1960 DOME must do so by this Monday or Tuesday if they expect to have their pictures in next year’s book. Those who have not had their pictures taken should come to room 2C of the LaFortune Student Center between the hours of 125:30 or 6:30-9 p.m. this coming Monday or Tuesday.
$ die gan^alldieie!/
on American Express Siudenf Touts of Europe
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, your best assurance of the finest service is American Express! On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascinating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria — Switzerland... Italy... The Rivieras ... and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 SMeat Tears of Earape . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors . . . 40 to 62 days... by sea and by air... $1397 and up.
4 Edocatiasai Stadeot Toors of Earape ... with experienced escorts — by sea... 44 to 57 days... $872 and up.
•ther Eorapeaa Teen AvadaHe .. . from 14 days ... $672 and up. Nao, Toors to Florida, Banooda, Mnico, West Mos aad HaaoaL
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
•	65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Saks Dinnon	*
•	Yes! Please send me complete information	•
•	about 1959 Student Tours of Europe!	*
•	Name...................................... •
•	Address....................................Z
2 City..................Zone....State........ *
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a*
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITHMBKM EDIES UMUBB OMSK-SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
■mr MW MB MM MBMKMMWE —HMM SMBS WMHHE CSSir CMS
Circle Society to Use | Quickened Processing
Applications for membership in the $ ' Blue Circle Society are now being ac- . cepted from all interested freshmen, sophomores, and juniors.
The exclusive campus-wide seivice organization will fill 25 openings with new members selected from those who apply now.
Under the leadership of Blue Circle Chairman Bill McCullough and Membership Chairman John Hayward, the society’s admission procedure has been considerably streamlined this year. The screening process has been simplified by cutting the number of interviewing ses- 4 sions from five to three.
The first interviews will begin after March 15. Each applicant will be interviewed twice, and the Blue Circle will make its final selections through a third interviewing session after Easter.
Interviewing boards composed of three junior and senior members of the society will conduct the first two interviews; a , „ similar board of seven members will ad- • minister the final session of interviews.
Application should be made by letter. 1 The candidate must have an academic average of 3.0 (or 80%) and must have a satisfactory disciplinary record. In । the letter, the applicant should give a report of his activities both in high school | and at Notre Dame. A recent photograph or snapshot of the candidate should also accompany the letter.
All letters should be addressed to: Blue Circle Membership Chairman, 103 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Deadline for applications is March 13.
CANADA STUDY
The Canada Council for the encouragement of the Arts, Humanities, and the Social Sciences is offering five fellowships for study in 1 Canada during the academic year 1959-60.
Awards are offered for study in Canada leading to a master’s degree in the arts, humanities, and social sciences. They are open to artists, scholars, musicians, writers, -and teachers of the arts who have shown exceptional promise in their 4 work. These awards supply $2,000 plus round-trip travel. Preference will be given to those under 35 years of age.
The competition closes April 15	■
and final selection will be made by the Canada Council in Ottawa. <' 1 Applicants may obtain application forms from the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York 21, New York. .
30
The Scholastic
p 'The Boy Friend' Set For Last Presentation
Rehearsals have been started by the Jr University Theatre for its third and final presentation of the school year. As in the past, it will be a musical and this year’s particular’ show will be The Boy ’ Friend. The play is a satirical comedy about college life in the roaring ’20’s.
For the second time this year, a freshman has been awarded the lead role. I John Smith, cast as Tony, has already . proved himself in the University Thea* tre, having had parts in both of the previous plays this year.
His leading lady, Aime Rody, who plays the part of a love-starved co-ed ‘ named Polly Browne, is no stranger to Washington Hall audiences either. She has appeared in Mztrder in the Cathedral b and Oklahoma.
The production will be directed by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., who is head of the drama department. Dr. Charles Biondo, of the music department, will direct the orchestra.
CAST i	Polly ......................... Anne Rody
1	Tony .......................... John Smith
' ■ Masie ................. Karen Koehnemann
Bobby ....................  Rudy	Hornish
Dulcie ................  Barbara	Benford
Alphonse ___________________ John Oliver
Nancy  Terri Crosina Pierre ---------------------- Tom Karaty
Fay ...................    Diane	Crowley
> Marcel __________________________ Tony Mileto
Madame Dubonnet___________Eleanor Murphy
Percival Browne................John Toth
■	f Lady Brockhurst ............Mary Vrancken
Lord Brockhurst...............Jim	Cooney
Hortense ...................  Pat	Wilson
Gendarme  Dave McDonald Waiter  Joe Maier ; Guests: Kathleen Ryan, Dick Nowery, Mary
Laska, - Mike McKee
PER MUSICA
The Per Musica Orchestra, under the direction of Dr. Charles Biondo, will present a concert Monday at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
The program will feature Brahms’ ‘‘Hungarian Dances” and an Overture by Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C. In addition to these works, compositions by Gluck, Teleman, Bach, and Saint-Saens will be performed.
a AUDIOS hiu UBUlIaii MJfl NHSNP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bowl A Non-Profit Organization
■	Seniors to Feature Brown
;	At Last Dance Week End
11 Les Brown, and “his band of renown” will supply the music for seniors and their dates at “Reflections,” the 1959 i Senior Ball. This announcement was ' made today by Jim Rhadigan, entertain-lf ment chairman for the dance which will be held May 8.
i Brown, making his initial appearance । at Notre Dame, will highlight the first I of many events in the activity-filled • week end.
; Saturday afternoon will feature the ! Old Timers’ Game in the Stadium and * picnics in the nearby park areas. That evening couples will dine at an infor- mai buffet dinner and dance to the music of Gene Bertoncini and ■ the Lettermen at the Erskine Country Club.
' The week end will be culminated on Sunday morning with attendance at the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. ► Immediately following the Mass, a Communion Breakfast will be held in the > North (new) Dining Hall. Principal speaker for the Breakfast will be the Most Reverend Leo C. Byrne, Auxiliary Bishop of St. Louis. The appearance of Bishop Byrne will mark the first time a member of the hierarchy has spoken at a Notre Dame Communion Breakfast.
March 6, 1959
Here’s a PILE’ worth making
Books, like money, never go out of style, so odd to your personal library more regularly than you would to your savings account. There are dividends to owning and reading books. And who knows, you might save just the right book for a rainy day. A book a day, we say “keeps boredom away.” Stop in often to check our ever increasing stock of popular and academic books.
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE

Ji
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
AMERICAN AIR FILTERS CORP.—All Graduates, Wednesday, March 11, see page 26.
GENERAL MOTORS CORP.—All Graduates, March 16, 17, 18, see page 14.
A.C.—The Electronic Division of General Motors, Wednesday, March 18, see page 22.
JET PROPULSION LABORATORIES—March 16, see page 27.
Have a WORLD of FUN! Trave! with IITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Europe
• mXL $645
Orient
26th Year
k 332 Sa. Michijan An. iK Chicoso 4, HA 7-2SS7
Many fours Induce college eredit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
43-65 Days
fr— $998
Get a head start on your vacation!
FLY UNITED AID LINES
Going home for the holidays? Or maybe planning a trip somewhere? You’ll have extra days for extra fun if you travel via United. Chances are you’ll save money, too. United Air Coach Mainliner® fares are low. Your choice of fast, convenient schedules to 80 major cities coast to coast and Hawaii. See your Travel Agent or call your nearest United Air Lines office today.
Industry Offers Positions For Vocation-Time Work
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and graduate students interested in summer employment should immediately contact Professor H. J. Bott at the Placement Annex, Room 118, Main Building. At this time they may register for summer employment and obtain blank applications to be forwarded without delay to : the employer concerned. Professor Bott ' will be available from 1 p.m. until 5 p.m., Mondays through Thursdays.
Interviews already scheduled for June graduates will not permit campus interviews for undergraduate summer employment. Prompt action on the students* part will afford ample opportun- ' ity for interviews, if desired by the employer, during the Easter vacation. ‘
The work of the Placement Bureau in connection with summer employment will terminate at the end of March. Accordingly, students interested in the summer employment opportunities are urged to J act without delay so that applications may be in the hands of employers and < arrangements completed in advance for interviews, if necessary, during the Easter vacation.
The jobs open to engineering and science students are numerous and fill six \ pages of the Placement Bureau’s release; summer employment for liberal < arts and commerce students has been offered by six companies.	;
Ministry of War	i
(Continued from page 21)	|
ed I was when I heard the news about American planes attacking Moscow. . . ’ It seemed utterly unbelievable until I saw one of the planes myself! I always had feared someone was going to lose his head, but never suspected it would , be us!”	j
Provost was quick in explaining. “Truly you cannot tell what a greedy minority might do next; for it is surely an influential minority which instigated your country’s suicidal attack. I am certain you would like to call and obtain all possible information but, due to our situation of virtual war, no international calls are permitted until we reassure our position.
He immediately cut short the call and • dialed the NKVD. Leaning back on his chair, he waited for an answer.
. “Vassily? Provost speaking. I trust < you have captured all who took part in tonight’s scheme: the surviving pilot, the ones who built the planes, the ones who ' painted the insignia? Very well. For disloyalty to the state, they shall be shot immediately.”	.
Provost smiled.	-
32
The Scholastic
I
News Briefs
. The Dome, Notre Dame’s yearbook, has begun selecting the recipients of the Dome k	awards. The final selections, limited to
f	graduating seniors, will be made before
I Easter to meet the printing deadline. How-i ever, the names will not be released until after the holidays.
The nominating board is headed by John ^1 i Thurin, editor of the Dome, and made up of juniors from each of the undergraduate colleges, the junior class, student government, the Dome and the Scholastic.
Nominees will be judged on the basis of , outstanding academic achievement, intelligent leadership in extracurricular activities, and their personal traits.
k’ * The Army ROTC drill team will perform during the halftime of the last basketball game of the season, the Marquette game held tomorrow. The group, under
■ the leadership of Drill Master, M/Sgt. Michael R. McKee, will give an eight ; minute demonstration of drill and rifle ! movements.
The team performed at the Army and North Carolina football games. Upcoming dates for the team are March 22 at the Tri-Military Smoker and April 18 at the
, Carrier Exec. Speaks At Local Conference
Causes and the consequences of plant migration came under study as Howard Dirks, vice president of the Carrier Corp, addressed members of the seventh , annual Union-Management Conference ■ in Washington Hall. The conference I was attended by some 500 businessmen | and labor leaders.
I Mr. Dirks emphasized the fact that a I company seldom moves for only one rea-I son. Several reasons often prompt a I' change of location, and many of these I factors could be overcome by a concerted effort on the part of the state or the community being abandoned by the j industry.
He offered the cultural climate of the । city as one of the most important fac; tors causing an industry to choose a ’ particular city. He pointed out that a r sizeable group of employees such as scientists and professional people desire ' cultural activities. A city with a poor library, poor recreational activities, and virtually no concerts or lectures has a small chance of attracting industry.
“All citizens have a responsibility to make our communities attractive to busi> ness and to insist on economical government at both local and state levels. . . . y Unions have a stake too — to represent their members and promote sound government.”
Other speakers at the conference were Joseph Childs, vice-president of the United Rubber Workers and Leonard Woodcock, vice-president of the UAW.
March 6, 1959	-
reserve officers association contest in Chicago where they will compete against drill teams from the universities of six states.
President Eisenhower recently named Rev. Edmund Patrick Joyce, C.S.C., to a position on the board of visitors to the U. S. Naval Academy. The board studies and makes recommendations to the president on the academy’s needs.
Father Joyce, executive vice-president of the University, will serve until 1961, and takes over from Peyton T. Anderson, publisher from Macon, Ga., whose term has expired.
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus exemplified major degrees of the Order for 70 candidates this past Sunday. This was the second exemplification of the major second and third degrees held by the Notre Dame Council this year. Total membership at Notre Dame has increased to approximately 400 members and a membership drive for new members is now open.
OUR COVER:
BEST BOOK BUYS In . . .
Having at last found a use for old SCHOLASTICS, The Jon Siddle of New York, London, and Paris, proceeded to create this week’s cover. The cover, which was completed at the last moment with the aid of a church key, depicts the trophy which will be awarded to the winner of the Notre Dame Invitational Debate tournament being held this week end.
ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS FICTION
GOVERNMENT & POLITICS HISTORY HUMOR LANGUAGE LITERATURE MATHEMATICS & SCIENCE MYTHOLOGY PHILOSOPHY POETRY RELIGION PHYSICS & ASTRONOMY
Save Time and Money Shop at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE oH-the-campiis
Weather-All
When the weather turns brisk, turn up the 2-button collar. As in all sportswear made by HIS, here is a splendid combination of functionalism and style. $8.95 to $10.95, in washable fabrics. At youthful-minded men's shops.
33
Back Pa^e
by jack McAllister
5-1
the draft J
The Roman empire staked all its cards on military might and lost. It enforced universal military conscription at first, but when the supply of men was almost exhausted while the dissipated populace became too indolent to care, mercenaries were hired to fill the increasing quotas and the frontiers of the empire began to collapse around the dispirited legions. Napoleon in the 19th century proclaimed universal military conscription to reinforce his grandiose program which quickly led to the abject ' surrender of France and the rape or demolition of other nations. Hitler tried it just recently and all but permanently crippled his country and now both Russia and the United States consider uni-■ versal conscription a matter of course. :	This is an age of force and every
:	country has its army. In the past ten
'	years in innumerable countries dictators
‘	and military leaders have come to po-
‘	litical power — Eisenhower in the
■	United States, De Gaulle in France,
J	Castro in Cuba, a military junta in
•	Brazil, Nasser in Egypt (and of course,
■	Franco, dictator in Spain for 20 years.)
:	Smooth professional diplomacy is becom-
'	ing an anachronism and an age of sheer
:	force seems to be lying in the road ahead.
;	Since the notorious French revolution
I practically every major political change ' has been born to the uncouth shouts and violence of mobs; this tradition seems . to be our heritage, as Walter Lippman says, and it seems also to be spreading around. Watching the political unification of Africa may prove to be one of the supreme horrors of the century, and . when the probable failure occurs of China’s second five-year shock plan, the chaos that will result, as one official observer in Hong Kong says, “is terrifying to contemplate.” People seem to ; feel instinctively the forebodings of dis; aster, and they naturally rely on mili-• tary might for security and protection. And this is unique in history because I never before have so many nations re;	lied so completely on power to maintain
’•	and advance their interests. The quesion
1 for us is, are these trends wholly in-|	exorable?
. So that we can maintain a superior ;	fighting force,	both in	combat troops
i	and technical	weapons,	every eligible
; male in the United States is drafted. '	The logic operating behind the situation
is something like that behind two cave men who Md themselves in a pair of ditches and accumulated a pile of instruments of warfare anyone of which j is sufficient to annihilate the opponent, i . As long as he is accumulating, each one ' feds moderately secure, but should the > opponent’s pile grow ..larger than , his I own, he succumbs to panic and flees, i Neither protagonist has real confidence
in his own abilities; the closest thing to confidence is the insane arrogance of the “aggressor.” The situation today is something like that. Rather than taking any effective steps to check the enemy on our own grounds, we allow ourselves to use his logic of force and waste our own resources. Stockpiling of arms beyond the lethal point may be reasonable for Russia, since she wants nothing more than the pusilanimous submission of surrounding nations. Any other great power such as the United States, she feels, has within itself the seeds of its own destruction, which is only a matter of time.
Communism is as much a matter of faith as Christianity. Russia is not going to risk any assault, however powerful, on any nation whose ability to retaliate makes the consequences merely dubious; but on the basis of past success, she feels she can wait as long as the United States has the capacity to deliver a lethal blow and the courage to denend on this capacity.
Meanwhile, time is on the other side. We cannot afford to coexist indefinitely with Russia (might as well ask a man to coexist with a cancer in his groin), but Russia can afford to wait “indefinitely” for us to go to pieces. Decade after decade, gorging herself on five-year plans, she will grow into a fat ugly monster eternally voracious for new prey — new wheat lands, new oil reserves, more trained personnel, etc., etc., — eternally reaching out for individual new victims but little inclined and little equipped for any massive exertion. The thing she can least afford is a sustained effort beyond what she now exerts. A sudden blitzkreig is all that is in her power, yet she realizes that such a thing results in her own destruction. What is the sense therefore, in our interminably constructing useless offensive weapons and semi-effective defensive measures, when the cascading years only allow the opponent to grow heavier and heavier without decreasing one bit her ability to wipe us out? She is now able to wipe us out as she ever was. The time of absolute stalemate is as far away as the limits to science, but when the time comes we are likely to find that Russia has devoured most of the world. What will then be the good of a “stalemate.” But suppose we attack her bases of support during these intervening years. That is quite a different matter.
Communism cannot exist without the aggrandizement and consolidation of a constant supply of victims, because it has within itself no real principles of strength. If the constant supply were cut off, it would be only a matter of . time before the body would begin to fes. ter and decay. Once this began, chaos
would breed chaos and the system would collapse. As long as the supply of victims flows, the body will grow.	,
It seems more than reasonable then to use the enormous sums (half the na- , tional budget) spent on “defense” for * the aid and support of those countries which are tentative victims — in Indochina, the Near East, Africa, South America, and Europe. A rehabilitated and flourishing country is practically immune to any Communist domination; but poverty breeds moral disease. The more countries aided, the fewer victims, " the less trade with the Soviet bloc and the less time before the pernicious juggernaut crumbles. What would be more demoralizing inside Russia than the spectacle of prosperity without? A , standing force of armed men is rather ridiculous except for the smaller police , actions. Most Communist countries are willing to sacrifice thousands of men for minor gains, but to us life is more precious. A sufficient deterrent force is all that we actually need, unless, of course, we insist on our present policy, in which ( case we limit ourselves to trying to forestall a cataclysm in every crisis while doing nothing to prevent the crisis, • which is also a rather ridiculous and uninspired policy.	,
The draft serves no useful purpose except to shore up our flagging confidence. A monolithic defensive machine has no real value. Then why force countless thousands of men to sacrifice the best years of their lives? Is the draft a grand opportunity for togetherness? ( It it a stabilizing force in the national " economy? Is it perhaps a convenient verbal handle for shortsighted politics? Whatever it is, it is not very intelligent.
To abandon the present policy and adopt a new one supposes a confidence that our country seems to lack. The press is full of dire prognostications about education, youth, morals, women, men, and Western civilization, which seems in many ways to be convenient surrogates for any real desire to act. But if the administration were to abandon the present expensive defense pro- , gram (which presupposes national selfconfidence, which in turn presupposes a spiritual regeneration) the vast sums 1 could be trebly effective in education, in intelligent economic aid, and in training adequate numbers of qualified men for careers in foreign countries, whether economic, diplomatic, or cultural. But as long as a whole neighboring continent like South America is on . the edge of utter impoverishment, with little hope for material or spiritual succour, we are fighting a losing battle. While we vigilantly. guard the front gate, Hie iniquitous enemy in the guise of a beggar is slipping in the back.
.	The Scholastic
. 1 •	J - . . * ' ,	'	,	- . 4
You're always ready
"	for a date...
*	thanks to Arrow
Wash and Wear
,	Your timing is as neat as your ap-
pearance when the shirt is a new Arrow Wash and Wear. No waiting for the laundry. Just suds— drip-dry—and you’re ready to go!
’	Economical, too . . . your allow-
ance goes further.
Carefully tailored by Arrow of 100% cotton oxford and broadcloth. Choice of collar styles in whites, stripes, checks, solids. $4.00
*	up. Underwear by Arrow, too.
n	Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
Choose your color! Choose your style!
—from our Arrow
Wash and Wear selection
Pick the new Arrow Wash and Wear shirt that’s just right for you—from our wide selection of collar styles, colors and fabrics. Tab, Pin-Tab and Glen button-down collars; smart new checks and stripes, handsome solid colors and whites—all in 100% cotton, broadcloth or oxford.
Stop in today while the selection is still ample! $4.00 up.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Today more people smoke Camels than any other cigarette
No fads or fancy stuff for Jim Petteway of the West brand brings you the rich flavor and easygoing Coast. This rising young architect smokes Camels, mildness of that costly Camel blend. Today as America’s real cigarette. He knows that no other always, the best tobacco makes the best smoke.
Have a real cigarette—_	_
have a CAMEL