
For a Limited Time Only: 1988 Football Review Issues 
$3 with student i.d. $5 for non-students 
Mail checks to: Scholastic 3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

239-7569 

They're Going Fast! 
s  tic  
Notre Dame's Student Magazine  April 6, 1989  
Cover  
Down 'N Dirty  

The Irishbaseball team is off to its best start in more than 25 years. 
By Jim Maggio/ Page 12 
Dangerous Dan 
Notre Dame centerfielder Dan Peltier has the makings of a pro. 
By Dan Flynn/ Page 15 

Making Their Pitch 
ND softball is winning in its first season of varsity competition. 

By JonPaul Potts/ Page 17 
Features Cover Photo by: Joe Vitacco If this is April, it must be Christmas Students and South Bend residents work together on a housing holiday. 
By Kate Manuel/ Page 6 

It's Not Easy Bein' Green 
Ray Lopez takes his final bow as Notre Dame's mascot. 

By Matt O'Donnell/ Page 8 
News Back Home Again in Indiana 
A look at housing issues over the past year and in years to come. 

By Mike Wieber/ Page 10 
ports Sportsweek: A weekly roundup of varsity sports} Page 19 

Departments 
Week in Distortion : A mother drives her son to the morose./ Page 3 On Other Campuses: Snow imported at Williams College and more. I Page 4 Music: New albums from Black Spot, Rapeman and Arsenal are reviewed. / Page 5 Coming Distractions: What's going on, both on-campus and off. / Page 20 Final Word: Matt Breslin and Dave Kinkopf share their goals as SBP and SBVP. I Page 22 Life in Hell / Inside Back Cover 

Editorial/ Page 23 
Improve the Library. N.ow. The library needs to be brought on par with othermajoruniversities. 

Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Crasi Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor in Chief: 
Andrew Hilger 
Managing Editor: 
Michael C. Wieber 
Editorial Staff: Sports:Jim Maggio Copy: Joe Maloney Features: Ian Mitchell 
Departments: Amy Weber 
Production: 
i Systems Manager: Jos·e Perez Graphic Arts Manager: Vivienne Padilla Photo Manager: Mari Okuda Business: Jim Fitzgerald Advertising: Dianna Billings 
Tony Porcelli 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at.$1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials bccon;i~ the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in•whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
·1 



Would the mail carriers from the following dorms please contact Scholastic at 239­7569: 
Alumni Knott Pangborn 

Your Football Review Issues are still here in the off ice. Call and set up a convenient time to pick them up. Thank you. 






Week in Distortion/ Bob Palladino 
The Hard Crusty Boogers of Life 
Poor Buzzy ... a victim ofhis mother's hate for communism 
W hen I was 15 years old, I re­member politely informing my mother that I was joining the Communist Party. Attempting to be reasonable, I showed her the pamphlets that I had been saving from my political hero, Gus Hall, president of the party, and expressed to Mom my sincere belief in Vladimir Lenin. "You gotta understand, Mom, I love that guy." I assured her that, despite my newfound atheism and plans to assist in the violent overthrow ofAmerican bourgeoisie scum like my Dad, I would forever remain her little Buzzy, loving, lovable and loyal. But that woman didn't even flinch. "We'll fix that," she whis­pered. "You're going to Notre Dame." She won. Today I find myself sleeping in a dorm room with three of the most offensive smelling individuals on campus, maybe even the entire city of South Bend (o.k., o.k., they're not THAT bad). Mike likes to pick his nose; he does it constantly. "Do you have to do that in front of me," I inquire? . "I cannot separate the 'private-me' from the 'public-me', for that would not only be hypocritical, but dangerously damaging to the health of my psyche. Besides, what's a hard, crusty booger be­tween friends?" Great, Mike, great. And Jim doesn't wear underwear. "It turns chicks on," he smiles. The other day my third roommate, Kevin, let a rank beer fart fly, and as I watched Kevin gag upon his own putrefaction, I realized that if Kevin­stinkers hurt 'ol Kevin, then Kevin-sdnk­ers would kill 'ol Bob. And as my eyes watered, the clean oxygen supply dimin­ished, and my muscles began to twitch spasmodically, I grabbed my plastic pen and laughed rebelliously. "Ha ha ho ho haaaaargh!" I would write "Week in Distor­tion" under the influence of Kevin's re­cycled Meister-Brau, and then would send the perverse literary results to my mother! I had wanted a life ofromantic revolution and idealism, but with the mocking rings of divine subterfuge and motherly will still echoing inside my brain, I instead had been given the University of Notre Dame and three flatulent roommates. I was deter­mined to have my revenge. Mommy, this one's for you! 
Does Monk Malloy ever fart? Is he allowed? When he wears the little, black priest suit do certain environmental rules apply to him that the rest of us need not worry about? I've got to know! I mean, I don't think he should be allowed, being president and priest and all. I'm not sure if Jesus ever lectured on this poignant topic, but I heard that Martin Scorcese originally wanted to do his movie on a related, scata­logical subject. Scorcese called his original film The Last Constipation ofChrist,. and in the film Jesus could be heard moaning from the bathroom: "Uuuugh ..... grrrrrr..... It must have been that last supper...all that bread and wine." 
"You are a pig." This was the sentence spoken to me by some girl that just read the preceding paragraph. "No one wants to read THAT," she snapped. I responded, "Darling, if I shaved Father Griffin's little dog and taught it to walk backwards, I would still rather kiss the dog's new face than yours." At this point Jim approached the purty girly. "I'm not wearing any under­wear. Does that tum you on?" Kevin simply laughed and delighted the entire room with another Meister-Brau explo­sion. Hooray!!! The girly-girl stomped out of our room. I don't think she likes us, but that's alright. Like most of Common Sense's writers, she'll be happier staring at the football players. I guess we don't make her liver quiver; we make her bladder splat­ter. 
Mike spoke: "Can we crack a window, guys?" 
"CRACK a window?!" I gasped. "No more CRACKS. After all, it was Kevin's very own that got us into this situation. And besides, what we have created in this room is quite beautiful if you stop to think about it. We have constructed a microcosm for the dilemma of human existence. We're born, we live in a small, fart-filled room with people we hate, we can't open a win­dow, and then we die." 
Jim began to sob. "That's horrible. Do you have to be so morose? Can't we just spray some Lysol or something?" 
"No," I quietly assured my underwear­less roommate, "we mustn't. We must enjoy this suffering. To breathe farts is to be human." 
Are you still reading my article, Mom? Do you see what you've done to me? I have regressed from a spirited and happy revolu­tionary to an embittered, pessimistic, mea­lymouthed dirtball. And it's all your fault! I am no longer playful Buzzy, but araving and painful venereal disease. I write ar­ticles, disappear for a couple of weeks, and just when you think I'm cured, dead, and gone, I return to make things hurt even worse than before. Yes! I am the herpes that will make Notre Dame scratch. II 


On Other Campuses 



A Real 
now Job 
Williams College couldn't get enough ofthe winter white stujff, so they shipped some in 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY
Improving on Mother Nature. What's a picture-postcard campus to do when the deadline for a viewbook that only comes out every five years arrives and pictures are needed of a snowy wintry scene, but there is no snow anywhere? Well, if you are Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts you do the only logical thing: truck in the snow and create your own wintry scene. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reports that Williams College, faced with such a dilemma, did just that. After encounter­ing an unusually mild winter, school officials in need of creating a wintry atmosphere, decided to truck in tons of snow to save the campus from Mother Nature's unappreciated generosity. 
Winning without the cheers. The members of the men's basket­ball team at Siena·College encountered an interesting obstacle in their efforts to gain a berth in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's basketball tournament: playing without any fans in the stands. According to the College Press Service, an outbreak of measles at Siena and other institutions in the North Atlantic Athletic Conference led state officials to ban fans from some games. Fans were barred from attending the recent conference tournament that determined which school would represent the North Atlantic in the NCAA tournament. The decision to bar fans from the tournament resulted in aloss of approximately $50,000 for the tournament organizers. The absence of fan support, however, did not seem to bother Siena in the least. The team finished first, and was undefeated, in its conference. And what happened the next time Siena played in front of a crowd? Well it beat 3rd ranked Stanford University in the Eastern Regional of the NCAA tourna­ment. But in the next round, Siena got trounced by the University of Minnesota in front of a crowd.... So much for wanting to play in front of your fans. 
The ''Picking" of a president. On April 1 Akito Arima will become the University of Tokyo's new president because he drew the red stick in a lottery! Sound unreal? Not really. The drawing, the first in the institutions's 112-year history, was strictly by the rules: A university bylaw calls for a lottery to choose the president if the candidates are tied after the fourth ballot. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that the first three ballots failed to produce a majority for either Mr. Arima or the other three candi­dates, so the lottery was chosen to be the deciding factor. 
A ''non-student" body president. The student body presidentof California State University atNorthridge resigned after admitting she hasn't been enrolled in the school since taking office last year, the Daily Bruin reported. Lynn Westlund, 23, told university officials she enrolled for the fall semester but was dropped from the school after failing to cover a bounced check. At CSU Northridge the student body president, who is paid $550 a month, is required to be enrolled in a minimum of seven course units to hold office. Westlund, however, was not enrolled in even one unit. In her defense Westlund said, "I don't think I was being dishonest. I made a stupid mistake ... I don't believe that I have anything to apologize for." ... What about the four thousand dollars you made 

While we're on the subject of taking money ... Four San Francisco State University students were charged with embezzeling about $9000 in student-government funds. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that the four students, three of whom were former student-government officers, operated a bogus billing sys­tem in 1986 and 1987, charging the student government for guest speakers who never appeared and seminars that never were held. The fees were paid to friends, who then turned the money over to the • suspects. 
And ... the College Press Service · reports that an Arizona State student who was frustrated about a parking ticket he received for parking on campus, mailed feces, cactus needles, paper soaked in urine and rodent ears instead of a $25 fine he was supposed to pay for his parking violation. B 
Scholastic 


Music/ Heather Ingraham 


Few Diamonds In the Rough 
Black Spot, Rapeman and Arsenal all produce some good stuff 
Whole lotta records out these days, and I'm happy to say that a lot of them are good. l've been a little slow in attending to new releases, but I've picked out a few gems that you may like. Black Spot, a new group from Minnea­polis, has released its first album, Burn. Steve (ex-Figures) and Pat Brantseg, Scotty Hell, and J. Christopher of Rifle Sport combine talent and energy to create a rousing, stomping free-for-all with genu­ine appeal. It does have its shortcomings­songs like "Burn" and "Hellacious Head­ache" start out well but gradually lose fo­cus; other songs are tight and fast-paced, but not overly remarkable. The best songs, though, like "Tuesday Morning" and "Hey ijow R. U" feature inescapable hooks and rollicking feedback pierced by Chris' soar­ing vocals. The manipulation of Chris' voice on "Hey" makes him sound like some kind of Exorcist-baby, spitting out lines like "we are not the critics' choice" -the effect is self-deprecating and humorous. My personal favorite is "I Don't Give Flowers to Girls" -sort of my life story. The anthemic nature ofthis singalong romp has a vibrant energy that sounds like the pounding I ought to give to some of the chumps I hang around with; and yet this same energy is so infectious that I catch myself smiling in spite of myself. There ought to be more songs like this. With two "mischievous delinquents, Brantseg and Christopher," mugging their way around stage, performances should be a treat· · Catch them live if you can. 
Rapeman 's album is out, and I'm hop­ing the rumors of a split aren't true: Two Nuns and A Pack Mule is remarkable. "Steak and Black Onions," the opener, is a favorite for its surging waves of sound and incisive vocals. Several of the songs are based on personal vignettes, but the appeal is not limited: the music comes through and the stories make good material. "Coi­tion Ignition Mission," for example, is about NASA's goal ofeventual conception and live birth in space, while "Trouser Min­now" captures the pick-up lines of one of the band member's roommates so well that anyone who has ever watched Nate in ac­tion surely feels the skin on the back of his or her neck crawling. Such personal obser­vation is a hallmark of guitarist-vocalist Steve Albini, as is his harnessing of such intensive power in the music that you can hear the people behind it (namely the pow­erhouse rhythm section of Washam and Sims). Rapeman 's music walks a precari­ous line between restraint and explosion, and few bands can even hope to approach this pent-up energy, though several are trying. Images such as the one in "Radar Love Lizard," where "One time, this guy who really hated me chased me through a parking lot and grabbed onto my arm; it came right off in his hands, scared the sh*t out of him. No big deal, I grew another one" testify to Albini's singular perspec­tive. The band also does a zesty cover ofZZ Top's "Just Got Paid," with Ed Roeser of Urge Overkill on vocals. 
For those of you who are still reading, I've saved the best for last: Arsenal. This four-song EP came out last October, but I can't let it go unheralded. Arsenal is the brainchild of mega brain riffmeister. San­tiago Durango,amemberofChicago's first punk band, Silver Abuse, and founder of many others, including the now hugely­popular Naked Raygun. (It should be added that their huge popularity probably has something to do with the fact that they still use his riffs.) This record is one MASSIVE wall ofsound, infused with subtle but unre­lenting hooks and crackling, understated vocals that make it seem that the voice must penetrate great fields of static resistance to reach you; you worry that you are about to be cut off from all human contact. At the same time, the immensity of the distortion takes on a life of its own, with a quiet and persistent sense of menace which simply moves in with you and makes itself part of your life. The vocals achieve a similar 
! I
effect: on "Mr. Plaque" the voice is a TV 
ii
evangelist's, exhorting viewers to send him $2.50 and receive "a gift absolutely free," II 
,Ii
Ii
or to send him "ten dollars or more to show 
the Devil that we do not believe he shall 1: 1: destroy us." This is the type of threat we live with every day, and almost do not notice for its constant companionship. Arsenal reminds you to sit up and take 
00~~ ¦ 
This is Heather Ingraham'sfinal Scho­lastic music column. She will graduate in May. 

April 6, 1989 
Features 


, If this is April, it must be Christmas 
Students and South Bend residents work together on a housing holiday 
BY KATE MANUEL 

I 
t began decades ago in a quiet Texas town, and it slowly spread across the country as people willingly gave their all for the movement. This weekend, South Bend becomes yet another site for the pro­gram as thousands of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will spend eight hours doing something out of their ordinary Saturday routine. Have aliens captured the hearts and minds ofNotre Dame? Some sort ofhideous takeover plot? Hardly; the students will join with South Bend residents and other volun­teers nationwide who are a part of the "Christmas in April" project. Their "hideous mission:" repairing and cleaning neighbor­hood homes. 
The "Christmas in April" program was created twenty years ago by residents of Midland, Texas who believed that the gener­osity, compassion, and warmth oftheChrist­_mas season should be continued throughout the year. Acting upon this belief, and upon the awareness that some members of their own community were living in inadequate housing, they began the custom of devoting one day each April to the repair and cleaning of these houses. 
From the repair of just five houses in Texas, "Christmas in April" began to spread across the country when a senior editor at Reader's Digest visited the site to do a feature on the project. The editor was so impressed with what he saw that he went back to Wash­ington, D.C., called some of his friends, and instituted a similar program there. Initially involving 19 houses and 350 volunteers, Washington's "Christmas in April" is now in its seventh year of operation and plans to occupy 2,500 volunteers in the repair of 85 inner city houses this April. 
Kansas City, Missouri, the site ofa simi­lar fall project -"Christmas in October"-has also attained enormous success by its efforts. This past autumn 250 homes were improved and renovated by the hard work of 4,000 volunteers. Now, April 1989 has brought "Christmas" to cities around the country­Alexandria, VA; Norwals, CT; Baltimore; Philadelphia; East Palo Allo, CA-and to the Notre Dame/South Bend community. 
Notre Dame's involvement in the pro­gram was first proposed in a February 1988 letter from Dick McNeill, one of its organiz­ers in Kansas City, to his former classmate Jim Roemer, now the director ofcommunity relations for Notre Dame. Roemer fowarded this correspondence to PatCooke, an arts and letters student from Chicago, who was then student body president. "I thought it was a great idea from the start," said Cooke. "(It was) a great public relations opportunity." 
Cooke believed that some of the program's appeal to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students would lie in the relatively brief time commitment that was involved. Cooke was afraid that because the "average" student participates in so many activities, the idea ofjuggling one more activity and fitting even more committee meetings into an al­ready hectic schedule might deter some pos­sible participants. Project organizers felt a time commitment that lasted for eight to twelve hours would be a great way for stu­dents to help their community without reor­ganizing their entire lives. 
Once the idea of"Christmas in April" was agreed upon, help was solicited from a vari-' ety ofcampus and community organizations. After their election, Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, the student body officers for 1988-89, joined Cooke in planning the event. ·The Hall 





Features 

Presidents' Council recruited.-volunteers from the student body while the Northeast Neighborhood Cen~cr, the Housing Bureau, and Mayor Joe Kefnan's office reviewed possible work sites. 
"The organizers were real fortunate in that a couple of (students and faculty mem­bers) here -Stephen Miller, the assistant rector in Sorin, and Missy Conboy, an em­ployee of the athletic department -had been­involved with the program in Kansas City and could give advice from their past experi­ences," said Cooke. 
The "Christmas" project in Notre Dame/ South Bend began with an early knowledge that getting student participation would be key to the success of the project. The Hall Presidents' Council and the dorm social concerns commissioners promoted the pro­gram in the residence halls with a positive response from students. "We don't know a finalcount but as faras we can tell the support is good with some dorms having as much as fifty percent participation," said Hall Presi­dents' Council Chairman Kerstin White. 
Cooke, for one, had no doubts about the degree to which the student body would participate. "From the beginning I knew there would be a tremendous response from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students," said Cooke. "When we were deciding upon the number of houses to repair I kept on saying, 'I don't think we should underesti­mate ourselves.'" 
While student body leaders worked to mobilize the Notre Dame community, ad­ministration workers concentrated on help from the South Bend area. "There (are) primarily three groups of volunteers," said Pat Doran, assistant directorof residence life. "One group is the faculty, student body and administration. Second there are members of the South Bend community. And thirdly there an~_ skilled workers from the South Bend community.'' 
Doran and his co-worker Jack Hickey mustered help from the South Bend commu­nity and labor unions by a combination of direct mailings, public service announce­ments, and formal presentations. A mailing was sent out to the one hundred most profit­able members of the South Bend area Cham­ber of Commerce asking these corporations money. Articles appeared in church bulletins and there were advertisements in the newspa­pers, on television and on the radio. Formal presentations were made to all of the South Bend labor unions and to the Home Builders Association ofSt.Joseph Valley. The city of South Bend decided_ to join Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's as a co-sponsorofthe program. 

All the homes being repaired and cleaned are located in the northeast section of town, the area of South Bend located along Notre Dame A venue and adjacent to the university. Two factors influenced the selection of this area as the work site. Its nearness to campus was a definte asset, since it made the trans­portation of volunteers and materials easier. Secondly, there are approximately eight hundred Notre Dame students who live in this area, and "Christmas in April" would provide these off-campus students with the opportunity to become more involved with their community and have a lasting positive impact. 
Fifty homes were selected from the neighborhood based upon the recommenda­tions of a building inspector who also com­piled lists of necessary repairs, Renalda Robinson, the vice-president of the Neigh­borhood Housing Service, and Anne Man­nix, director of the Northeast Neighborhood Center. All of the homes must be owned rather than rented, since project organizers feel that the repair of rented property should be the responsibilty of the property owner rather than a community service organiza­tion. In general, the homes which were selected are owned by the elderly, handi­capped, or disadvantaged. All the construc­tion materials are donations from businesses in the community. 
The en tire "Christmas" project will invest $250,000 worth of time, labor and materials, all of which are donated, in the improvement of South Ben d's northeast side. "The beauty (of the program) lies in the fact that it takes eight hours and yet can make such a visible difference and bring together diverse groups," said senior Katy Kennelly, who has been involved with the program in Washing­ton, D.C., her hometown. 
"Christmas in April," which this year's organizers plan to continue next year, seems certain to grow here at Notre Dame as it has throughout the country. _ The people who participated this year will take the experience with them as they leave Notre Dame over the next several years. Some ofthese people may even set up "Christmas" programs in their new neighborhoods. 
Kennelly also predicts that additional national attention will be focused upon the project because "the entire national champi­onship football team will be working on it and Lou Holtz is sponsoring a house." Hav­ing already spread across the country, the conceptof"Christmas in April" may yet take the world by storm. 

for volunteers and donations ofmaterials and 
Features 





It's 
ot Easy Bein' Green 
Ray Lopez takes his final bow as Notre Dame's mascot 


BY MA TI O'DONNELL 


eeping other people happy has 
been by far the greatest experience 
of this whole year of being lepre­chaun." 
So reflects senior finance major Ray Lopez on his tenure as Notre Dame's lepre­chaun. As leprechaun, Lopez travelled with the sports teams and symbolized the univer­isty to a national television audience. How­ever appealing such a position might sound, it does require hard work, creativity and a certain degree of strength and gymnastic ability. 
"You're required to do a roundoff back handspring, a back tuck and basically just strength maneuvers," said Lopez. "You're required to bench your weight seven times." 
To aid in the tryout process, two months of training take place, during which candi­dates for both leprechaun and cheerleader positions learn the basic gymnastic moves as well as create their three-minute skits for 
On an overall basis I'm very proud of what I've done. I think .the students 
) 

have been very happy. I did my best, and I have nothing to be ashamed about. Thanks to the stu­dents for giving me the chance of a lifetime. 
-Ray Lopez, leprechaun 
8 

final auditions in April. This year's audi­tions were held Tuesday night. 
"You start preparing yourself gymnas­tic-wise," said Lopez. "Ifyou had a weak­ness, you had to work on it. Of course, my weakness was_gymnastics. I hadnever done a flip before in my life. The cheerleaders on the squad were a lot of help. They gave me initiative and that extra little push. They also helped me out with some creative movements." 
Such help along with the advice of friends resulted in a creative, well-executed skit which was prophetic of this year's na­tional championship football season and won the mascot position for Lopez. 
"There are two things that are very sym-
Leprechaun Ray Lopez travelled to away games as team mascot. 
bolic of the leprechaun: the pot of gold and the rainbow," said Lopez. "At the end ofthe rainbow is a pot of gold. That's what I . designed my skit around. I started at the end of the rainbow and as I walked down, I ' knocked offour opponents. I had my friends dress up as symbolic representations of the other schools. I made my way all the way down the rainbow and Miami was the last one to go through. After I got through Miami, I got to the pot of gold. I pulled out a Notre Dame 1988 National Championship banner, and the place went wild." 
In addition to the creative and physical requirements, the job of cheerleading also places great demand on a student's time. "We work out just as hard as anybody," said 
Scholastic 




Features 

The leprechaun has to be someone with orjginality, someone (who is) creative, dynamic:· y OU can't make everybody happy. You're going to take criticism, but you have to _realize why you're doing it: for the Lady on the Dome, to keep people happy and to en­hance the spirit. 
-Ray Lopez, leprechaun 

Lopez. "I lift weights four or five days a week. My season goes from April to April year 'round. That's practicing two and half hours a day. That's football and basketball, not to mention volleyball, wrestling and baseball." 
Besides this demanding time require­ment, theroleofleprechaun becomes a bit of a delicate balancing act between the direc­tives of the athletic department and the de­sires of the student body. "No one realizes what limitations I go through at times from the athletic department," said Lopez. "'Ray, you're no longer allowed to use props.' That's what I was told the opening game. My Irish flag and my shillelagh were the only two things that I was allowed to carry around. You tell me how hard my role is going to be, ifl'm not allowed to improvise, to gather something up and carry it around or use it. I can understand the athletic department's point of view, but I don't think they understand mine." 
Adding to this difficulty, student recep­tion of the leprechaun has not always been favorable this year. The "impeach the lepre­chaun" classifieds which appeared in the campus newspaper are a clear indication of some students' negative feelings. However, Lopez takes criticism in stride, realizing its value, but more importantly that it repre­sents only a portion of spectator opinion; 
"Being the leprechaun you receive a lot 

of criticism, and that's fine," admits Lopez. 
April 6, 1989 
"Criticism makes you a more well-rounded tude. "On an overall basis I'm very proud of person. But then you also receive a lot of what I've done," said Lopez. "I think the praise. I received a lot ofpraise from a lot of students have been very happy. I did my students. I received a lot of congratula­best, and I have nothing to be ashamed 
tions." about. Thanks to the students for giving me Lopez takes pride in the innovations he the chance of a lifetime;' · · 
has brought to the position of leprechaun, most notably the now-famous pushups. Yesterday Lopez was officially replaced "Something that I think contributed to my as leprechaun, when the identity of the new image as the leprechaun is the pushups," leprechaun was announced after Tuesday's 
said Lopez. "Everybody in the nation tryouts. The only candidate for the position wanted to see me do push ups. This lady told as ofpresstime was Chris Ryan, a junior in me: 'Hey Ray, you do such a good job that the College of Business Administration. my little kids who are three and seven do Lopez offered some final words of advice pushups with you everytime they see you ori for the new leprechaun. "The leprechaun TV when Notre Dame scores.' That really has to be someone with originality, someone meant a lot to me. I think it (the tradition of (who is) creative, dynamic," said Lopez. the pushups) is something that will be em­"You can't make everybody happy. You're 
bedded in the student body. Three years going to take criticism, but you have to from now the seniors will say: 'The lepre­realize why you 're doing it: for the Lady on chaun our freshman year did pushups for the Dome, to keep people happy and to every point that we ever made.'" enhance the spirit." 
For Lopez the benefits of being Notre Sound advice from someone who Dame's leprechaun far outweigh the costs. "Whether people criti------------------...-----­cize you or not, there's always going to be someone out there who you're making happy," said Lopez. "You touch so many people's lives throughout this whole job. Little kids think you're great and that's what it's all about. It's not about doing it for a monogram or for tick­ets. It's not about look­ing for recognition. That's not why I wanted to be leprechaun. I wanted to be leprechaun to make other people happy, to have some­thing the students are proud of, something that I can give back to the university for giving me three years ofa great education." 
As his year draws to a close, Ray Lopez looks back on his expe­
rience with a sense of f,-,',---'-"....::.;""""""'"----;;..; achievement and ati­

News 




ac 
Home 

•

gain in Indiana 
A look at housing issues over the past year and 
BY MIKE WIEBER

Even though you are already aware that Holy Cross Hall will be re­turned to the Congregation of Holy Cross in the fall of 1990, we wanted to send you this letter to let you know how we will approach the closing of Holy Cross as a resi­dent hall," reads a letter sent by Evelyn Re­inebold, Director of Student Residences, on March 31 to all Holy Cross residents. In addition to being a formal notification of the hall's closing, the letter announced that, if at all possible, no freshmen would be enter­ing the hall in the fall semester. According to Student Residences, this should leave 124 students in Holy Cross who are not graduat­ing at the end of the 1989-1990 school year. Those remaining will be given a chance to list a hall preference for the fall, although Reinebold adds, "We will not be able to move whole sections into another hall." With approximately 1,820 freshmen en­rolling in the fall, this may seem to create some potential problems especially in light 


in years to come 

of difficulties in housing the Class of 1991 during the fall of their freshmen year. In 1987, the study lounges of Grace, Flanner, Pasquerilla West, and Pasquerilla East were transformed into temporary dorm rooms. Reinebold regretted such accommodations especially since freshmen must live on cam­pus. "Freshmen are guaranteed housing and they were the ones being punished," she said. · She added that in most years students are usually moved to other residences before the end ofthe first semester, but this is not always the case. "One year they were not out till February," Reinebold said. 
· Pat Leonardo, an associate director of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, said much of this occasional overflow cannot be avoided. "We must confirm 1,920 to 2,000 applicants. Some for one reason or another don't show up." He said that many students "double confirm," or confirm at two separate colleges. This results in conflicts when stu­dents later decide to attend another univer­sity. 
Leonardo added, "There are usually 20 to 25 no shows. These students do not even bother to drop us a line saying they're not coming." 
As a result, a few freshmen arrive on cam­pus having no definite idea where they will live. Nonetheless, Leonardo said the Office of Admissions has a good record in its esti­mates. "We're usually within ten of the correct number," he said. 
He recalls only one time the Office of Admissions significantly miscalculated. "About 14 years ago, we missed by 100... We overenrolled," said Leonardo. 
This year's housing problems should be softened when Siegfried and Knott go to ca­pacity. The uppermost floors of each dorm were used for graduate women's housing during the 1988-1989 school year. "They [the dorms] will be all undergraduates in the fall," said Reinebold .. 
She added that these dorms may assist in the housing of transfer students. "Transfer students are placed on a waiting list after they are confirmed. We won't accept applications for housing until then," Reinebold said. 
Scholastic 


News 

can continue to rent to students," said Reine­pus housing are put on a waiting list. "Trans­
All transfer students who request on-cam­bold. 
"If we overenroll housing 
The reason for such a small change may be available on-campus," she said. Last year 
fers are told up front that there is no housing due to students simply choosing to live in

gets upset. If we underen­
areas other than houses in that particularthere were well over 100 students who could 

roll, the business office 
region added Reinebold. Housing remains bold. 
not move on-campus according to Reine­
available to students in many of the popular This year, however, all students have been 

gets upset." 
locations including Campus View apart­

-Pat Leonardo, associate 
ments and Turtle Creek. now are involved in leases," she said. Most 
offered housing. "The people we have called 

director of admissions 
The National Championship in football has leases req·uire that the student pay off the 
been thought by some to be a potential prob­lease if they wish to leave a house or apart­
lem for the Office of Admissions and the ment. "If they don't take it [housing] now, 
Office of Student Residences. This may be they must wait through the list again," she due to difficulties experienced by Villanova 
family groups, this would seem surprising to after their 1985 National Championship in
said. Students faced the possibility of the off­some. "I ~ave not noticed any change. I basketball. The university faced housing campus option involuntarily 
problems due to both an increase according to a letter sent by Stu­
in the number of applicants and dent Residences in the fall to all 
the number who enrolled after on-campus residents. The letter 
being accepted in the fall of 1985 informed students that if dorms 
(for the class to arrive the follow­could not accommodate ap­ing fall). More students were ac­proximately 25 percent fresh­
cepted than could be accommo­men, the current residents could 
dated by the dorm housing which be asked to leave their dorms. 
led to many students being forced Reinebold said this policy was 
off-campus against their will. Leonardo does not predict that 

not exercised this year. "The Notre Dame will face similar
policy was not designed to force problems especially this year. He
people out. It was to go to if we stressed that the school experi­
needed to," said Reinebold. enced their problems a year after 
Students were asked to ad­the championship which for
vance enroll by February 2 to be Notre Dame would be a year from 
eligible for on-campus housing. this fall. 
By 5:00 p.m. that evening, how­He added that enrollment does 
ever, 400 students had not ad­not change from year to year due 
vance enrolled. As a result the 
Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences, monitors 
to the number of applications.

date was changed. "We decided 

housing problems. 
"Enrollment is set by the univer­

to extend the deadline to March 24," said Reinebold. She stressed that this believe there is a grandfather clause that says sity, not by the Office of Admissions," Le­was the absolute deadline. if you have rented to students in the past you onardo said. 
He predicted that the maximum effect
Rectors have cut down on interhall trans­

would probably be an extremely small
fers as a result of the new housing policy to 
change in the number of applicants. "The
prevent activation of the policy on their stu­


"Freshmen are guaran­
National Championship may effect it [appli­
dents. "Rectors are trying to stabilize classes. 
cations] by a percentage point or two," Le­
They have not accepted many people this 

teed housing and they're 
onardo said. He based this on past experience 
year," Reinebold said. She noted that 

the ones being punished." 
since he worked here during the last champi­
Siegfried was not accepting any transfers of 
sophomores-to-be since the dorm at present 
onship in 1977.

-Evelyn Reinebold, 
has an especially large freshman class. 
Housing and admissions have always been 

director of student 
Despite the new housing policy enlisted by 
at odds. These organizations try to work 

residences 
together to please both the administration
Reinebold, there has not been a great change 
in the number of students moving off-cam­
and the potential students. "Ifwe overenroll, 
pus in the fall. Especially with the rezoning 
housing is upset," Leonardo said. "If we 
of the Northeast neighborhood to house one 
underenroll, the business office is upset."fl 
April 6, 1989 

Joe Vitacco 



IRT 

. Thanks to a hard work ethic and an aggressive style ofplay, the· Irish baseball team is offto its best start in more than 25 years ­
Scholastic 

BY JIM MAGGIO 
n most cases, a 7-1 Irish victory would be enough to satisfy ,head baseball 

coach Pat Murphy for the day. Last Wednesday, however, was a different story. Instead of allowing his Notre Dame team to seek immediate refuge from a blusteryI March afternoon in a hot shower, he re­warded his team's 14-hit performance with a t_1 
brief post-game workout. 
Murphy felt his squad could have per­formed better offensively Wednesday. Chicago State trailed by only three runs en­tering the bottom of the eighth inning, and the Irish needed a two-out rally in their final at­bat to put the game out of reach. Conse­quently, he ran the infielders and pitchers through some basic drills while the outfield­ers busied themselves shagging fly balls. 
Unjust punishment, you say? Not really. The Irish fully understand their coach's ra­tionale. "His (Murphy's) whole thing is to do something positive every day," explained junior catcher Ed Lund. "Hesaw some things thatdidn't please him, so hejust wanted to get something out of the day." 
This blue-collar approach to the game has been the underlying reason for Notre Dame's success the past two seasons. The Irish are not blessed with a multitude of blue-chip performers like their counterparts in Califor­nia, Florida, and Texas. They know that in order for the success to continue, a commit­ment to hard work is essential. Thus they take winning in stride these days, foregoing the trademark low-fiving, forearm-bashing cele­brations of many professional teams. When not running through post-game drills, the Irish typically "celebrate" a win by, say, helping the grounds crew groom the playing field. 


"That's all part of it," said Murphy. "I tell my kids, 'Remember, don't act like it's the seventh game of the World Series. If you do, you'reshowingthc.,otherteam that you didn't expect to win.' 
"We're looking to continue what started in the Fall of 1987 -to build a consistent work ethic, to build a winning attitude at Notre Dame through preparation and belief in yourself." 
In lieu of their highly successful 1988 season, expectations are running high. They won 39 games last season, ten more than any other squad in Irish history in a given season. True to form in 1989, the Irish are off to their best start in 26 years, boasting a 15-5 mark that includes big wins over national powers Miami (FI.) and Texas. 
Amazingly, Notre Dame has already matched its win total for all of an abysmal i987 season. That year is one that many of the team's upperclassmen would just as soon forget. "We were beaten before the game even started," said senior co-captain Pat Pesavento, recalling the trying times ofa 15­29 campaign. "It was more of an individual approach, you know, to improve stats since the team expectations weren't there. We'd go out and just hope to play well.'' 
"When I was a freshman, the thinking was 'How arc we going to lose today?"' said Lund. "Now the thinking is 'How are we going to win today?"' 
"It's been a total turnaround since then," added Pesavento. "We believe in ourselves more and more, and now we know we can win. There's no reason to believe we can't win 45-50 games and take the MCC Champi­onship." 
Along with hitting sensation Dan Peltier (See story, page 15), Pesavento is one of Notre Dame's two high-profile performers. The slick-fielding shortstop already holds the Notre Dame career records for hits (205), runs (158) and stolen bases (56), not to mention a career batting average of.364 that ranks him third on the all-time Irish list. Such 
April 6, 1989 

Joe Vttacco 

Even Touchdown Jesus {Homerun Hosannah?) has been singing the praises of Notre Dame baseball in 1989. 
impressive credentials led the Toronto Blue Jays to make Pesavento their 11th-round selection in the 1988 amateur draft. He nearly jumped at the offer but cited unfin­ished business as his motivation to return for one final season. 
"Getting my degree was my foremost intention in returning," he said. "But after seeing how far the program had come under Coach Murphy and the potential for an even better season, I figured I'd be crazy to go." 
Prior to the start of this season, Pesavento and Peltier were seen as the only legitimate candidates for post-season All-America honors. But after 20 games, they may very well have to make room for one more ­rightfielder James Sass. 
Sass has been on a tear oflate. Coming off last year's respectable .301, 13 runs-batted­in season, Sass already leads the team with a .393 average and an astounding 29 RBI. Five of those have proven to be game winners ­four more than he amassed.all last year. 
The Notre Dame pitching staff has been onsomewhatofahotstreakas well. Paced by Brian Piotrowicz, Erik Madsen and Mike Passilla, the Irish hurlers have limited the opposition to three runs and nine hits in the past three games. The staff's earned run average now stands at 3.75, a figure mark­edly lower than their 5.43 showing in 1988. 
Should such prolific production continue the rest of the way, Midwest Collegiate Conference foes won't be the only ones with reason to worry. But hot streaks tend to come and go, and down the stretch a coach looks for steady performances from his role players to give the team a needed boost. Mike Moshier fits the bill. 
"He's a role player to the nth degree," said Murphy of his other senior co-captain. "Sometimes he tries so hard to execute his role, he ends up not performing the way he'd like. But if you look at all the big games we've won, Moshier's come through. Check the box scores against Miami and Texas and you'll see that." 
Pesavento and Peltier stole the spotlight in Miami and Austin, respectively, but Moshier quietly made big contributions in each victory. He was one of six Irish players who had three hits against the Longhorns on Feb. 24, and his sacrifice bunt against the Hurricanes on March 8 set up Pesavento's run-scoring single that put the Irish ahead late in the game. 
Although his efforts are often overshad­owed, Moshier doesn't seem to mind •very much. He is perfectly content to do whatever it takes to help the Irish win. "My job is to get on base for the big guys to drive me in, play good defense and be aggressive," said Mosh­ier. 'Tm very happy with that role." 
Murphy likes such aggressive style of play for the message it sends the opposition. "We don't talk very much about opponents," he said, "but we want other teams to walk away from the game and say 'Damn! That team came to play. We might have beat them, we might have lost to them, but that Notre Dame team -they came to play."' 
Butwith the Irish fast establishing them­selves as the team to beat in the MCC, Murphy is well aware that their conference rivals won't need much convincing. 
. "I know one thing," he said. "Everybody in this conference is gunning for us. I've gotten call after call ab.out people hanging up newspaper articles in the locker room about Notre Dame beating Texas and Miami. We're not gonna sneak up on anybody." 
ti 
Scholastic 

D©Hnl ~ ®[f(Q) LI~ 
D@lnl 

Notre Dame centerfielder Dan Peltier has the makings ofa top professional prospect 
Entering Wednesday's action, Peltier was just one RBI shy of the Notre Dame career record. 

I 
BY DAN FLYNN 

t's the bottom of the tenth inning. There are two outs and a runner on second, and your team is down by one run. You calm I y step to the plate and ... 
You know the ending. You crush a fast­ball into the bleachers to win the World Series. For many little kids, this is just a dream. But for Notre Dame baseball star Dan Peltier, it is much closer to reality. At least that's what the scouts think. 
Peltier has caught the eye of virtually every major league team looking for hot prospects before June's amateur baseball draft. Among the teams most interested in the Fighting Irish centerfielder are the Chi­cago White Sox, the San Francisco Giants and the Baltimore Orioles. 
"I'm very excited, but I'm trying to take it all in stride," said Peltier. "Hundreds of players get drafted and only a select few make it to the pros. I was more excited when they came to my high school games." 
The major league attention scouts have given Peltier has raised questions concerning his senior year at Notre Dame. Will the junior slugger move on to a big league franchise or will he play his senior year in Notre Dame pinstripes? 

Indications by Peltier suggest that the Clifton Park, New York native is heavily considering testing the waters of the profes­sional circuit, but it would take the right circumstances to pry the outfielder out from under the Golden Dome. 
"It depends what's best for me," said Peltier. "Money, draft position and organiza­tion all have to be considered. Obviously, I won't have any answers until June." 
Irish Head Coach Pat Murphy believes his star hitter will return for his final year, but he also thinks Peltier should weigh his options. 
"Dan is smart enough to know what the value of a Notre Dame education means," said Murphy. "He's also smart enough to know how important draft positioning is ... and I believe if he gets the right amount of money, he should seriously consider it [turn­ing pro]." 
Murphy, in his second year as Notre Dame's skipper, strongly believes Peltier can help himself by coming back and not playing for "a single A team in St. Catherines, On­tario." The ex-minor league pitcher knows that Peltier will face better pitching against the likes of Miami and Texas than he would in single A baseball. 
"Dan could come back and improve his situation and become a better player," said Murphy. 
Peltier and Murphy both agree that, de­spite his collegiate success, the smooth­swinging outfielder must improve his game both defensively and mentally before enter­taining thoughts ofplaying in a major league stadium. 
"I need more· experience in the outfield ... so that I can get a better jump on balls," said Peltier, who is playing centerfield this year after playing in right last year. 
"Dan must improve defensively," added Murphy. "He has to approach defense with a mentally tougher attitude." And although Murphy calls Peltier a "phenomonal hitter," he feels he doesn't have "enough confidence in his hitting, especially with two strikes." 

Mental toughness should not be a huge task for Peltier to overcome. The accounting major is a G.T.I. Academic All-American who sports a 3.7 grade point average to go along with his .379 career batting average at Notre Dame. 
"Academics is the reason I chose Notre Dame over Clemson and other schools," said Peltier. "At Notre Dame, I knew that if I failed at baseball then I would at least have a fine, academic background to support me." 
Peltier, who said he will return to get his degree ifhe turns pro this summer, has done everything but fail when it comes to Notre Dame baseball. A starter for the Irish since day one, the six-foot-one, 205-pound junior has played every game but one for the Irish since his freshman year. 
Not only does Peltier play in virtually every game, it seems as ifhe hits in every one as well. The strong outfielder recorded a hit in 50 of the 60 games he played in last year, setting Notre Dame single-season records for most hits (89) and doubles (21). 
Peltier continues to hit the ball well this spring. Following Notre Dame's two-game stint in St. Louis his average stands at .387, second on the squad only to red-hot right­fielder James Sass. Entering Wednesday's 
Peltier's intensive approach to both baseball and studying earned him Academic All-America honors in 1988. 
game against Illinois-Chicago, Peltier needed just one run batted in to break Tim Hutson's Irish career record of 128. 
Peltier attributes much of his success to Murphy, who took over the head coaching duties for Larry Gallo two years ago. 
"Pat makes us believe in ourselves," said Peltier. "He makes us feel that we can always do it. Pat is a go-getter and a great motivator. He makes us practice harder under him and we respond by playing bet­ter." 
Last year's squad went 39-22 in Murphy's first season and advanced as far as the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship, while this year's team (15-5) is off to its best start in 26 years. They jumped out of the blocks early with wins against highly-ranked Miami and Texas,and Peltier contributed greatly in these games. He went four-for-six with two doubles in the Irish's 12-9 upset of third-ranked Texas and doubled in the tying run off Miami ace Joe Grahe in a 4-2 upset of fifth-ranked Miami. 
"The October sweep of Miami put Notre Dame baseball on the map," said Peltier. "The two wins turned people's heads ... now these wins [Miami and Texas] show we can play with the best of them and that we're for real." 

Peltier has turned people's heads since he started baseball at the age of six. But it was his one-game performance last year against Evansville that put Peltier on the college baseball map. Peltier rapped four consecu­tive singles off Andy Benes, a U.S. Olympic pitcher and number one pick in last year's amateur draft. 
Peltier doesn't predict any more days like that one, but he does guarantee that the Irish baseball team will be one to be reckoned with this year. 
"Ifwe play within our roles, we can go as far as we want to go," said Peltier, "be it the conference championship or the NCAA tour­nament." 
Peltier plans to eventually play in the big leagues, but he has no specific team for whom he wishes to roam the outfield grass. 
· "I just hope I can get my first at-bat in a major league park, and then I'll take it from there," he said. 
Rest assured, whether Peltier smacks home runs for a living or balances som~body's books, he's sure to be a big hit. 
Scholastic 


1n 

ill
Th 
1r Pitch 
Led by freshman phenom Melissa Linn, Notre Dame Softball is winning in its first year ofvarsity 

competition 
BY JONPAUL POTTS 

What do Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, LaPhonso Ellis and Melissa Linn have in common? They are all freshmen who have made a big splash on the Notre Dame athletic scene. Ismail burned it up for the national championship football team, Ellis ran and dunked at the JACC for Digger Phelps' basketball squad, and now Melissa Linn is pitching the women's softball team through a surpris­ingly successful first year of varsity play. The team had played 20 games at this writing and their record stood at 11 wins and nine losses. Though they made the quantum leap from club to Division I varsity status, first-year coach Brian Boulac has organized a softer schedule to ease the team into the higher level of play. "We're not playing a Division I schedule, per se," said Boulac. "Detroit, Butlerand the teams we've been playing are Division I, but we have a lot of teams on our schedule who are not Division I opponents. There was a reason for that -I didn't know where we would be. As a club program, I didn't know how fast we would develop into a bona fide varsity program." 
The team is basically young. There are five seniors who have played three years at the club level and one junior. Bou lac admits, however, that they are essentially a fresh­man/sophomore team led by Linn, the only recruited player on the team. The Harris­burgh, PA native was an all-state pitcher her senior year and was recruited by Princeton, Rutgers and Furman -schools with estab­lished softball programs. She chose Notre Dame instead. 
"I didn't want to go into an established program and all the pressure that would go with it," said Linn. "Pressures like getting so many more wins than last year and tough fall practices. I wanted to get a good start on school and my GPA freshman year." 
Linn is on a· partial grant, part of two scholarships the fledgling softball program will have to give out over the next four years. She has had to do the bulk of the pitching thus far. Senior Barbara Mooney has also pitched, starting seven games with a recent good outing versus Detroit But Linn has been in most of the 20 games either as a starter or reliever. She hasn't felt much pressure and said her arm is holding out fine despite all the 
work. 
"My senior year in high school the other pitcher dropped off the team, so I'm used to pitching a lot," said Linn. "My arm has felt fine but I'm not pleased with my perform­ance so far. I've been pitching hard but some ofmy pitches have not been working." 
She throws five pitches -a riser, a drop pitch, a curveball, a changeup and a good fastball -and sports a 10-5 record. "Missy is our best pitcher," said Boulac. "Basically, we've been playing doubleheaders, so what I've planned to do is to start Missy in one game and Barb in the second game. That's worked out. What hasn't worked out is that I've had to bring Missy in many times earlier than I'd hoped to. So she's pitching more innings than I thought she'd have to at this point in the season." 

Boulac points to defense as the team's strength. They made a lot of errors early in the season but have performed well of late. He feels that the outfield, composed of sophomores Rachel Crossen (a transfer from Saint Mary's), Megan Fay and Marie Liddy, has become the heart of the team. 
"All three of them have wheels," said 
Oakland Athletics, but they get the job done. 

A less demanding schedule has allowed Boulac to 
"We don't score a lot of runs; we 

bring his young team along slowly. 
Boulac. "They can cover a lot of ground and they all have great arms. That may be the strength of our ballclub-the way they've developed as a unit and how quickly they've come on. They've really gelled as a unit." 
The team is young up the middle. Freshman catcher Amy Folsom has shown good skills behind the plate and demonstrated a strong arm, throwing out some runners trying to steal. Bou­lac thinks another freshman, shortstop Ruth Kmak, could play for most soft­ball programs in the country. Fresh­man Laurie Sommerlad helps her out at second base, while Crossen has shown her defensive ability in center field by throwing a runner out at the plate this year. 
The offense is not a powerful run­scoring machine in the . vein of the score one run to beat you," said Bou lac. "As a team, we're bunting the ball very well. We run very well and this has allowed us to do some things and score some runs." 

Crossen has been the leading hitter on the team thus far, hitting close to .440 with three doubles and one home run, a blast against Detroit. 
Ian Johansen 
"Maybe as a team, we have ten extra base hits so far," said Boulac. "So we're basically a singles, punch it out, run and bunt team. We try to sacrifice a run around and then hold out and play good defense." 
Boulac recruited very hard this winter, concentrating on getting pitching help for Linn. Some pitchers have been accepted but have yet to commit. By April 12, Boulac should know how the team is shaping up for next year. The program will then be up­graded each year, depending on the talent that can be brought in through recruiting. 
"The schedule will develop with the type ofpeople we can bring in," explained Boulac. "This year, with one pitcher -and hopefully B_arb will come on to give us two-I felt we'd do alright. We need three quality pitchers to be able to play and alternate the pitchers the way you should in a good program. 
"I feel we'll get better as more people learn that Notre Dame has a softball team. I'm impressed with the quality ofplayers we have. Ruth Kmak can play for almost any­one. She is a very fine player as a freshman and she came here without knowing Notre Dame had a commitment to softball." 
Going into the season the team was ex­pected to be just a step above the club level, btit they have proven themselves competitive 
in the Midwest Collegiate Conference. 
They hope to be ready when they face perrenial Midwestern power DePaul near the end of the year. 
'Tm really satisfied with the prog­ress we've made," saidBoulac. "We've got some good talent. The girls have really worked hard and they've com­mitted themselves to being a good solid softball program. We represent the university very well." 
If the team hopes to compete with national powers such as UCLA, Ari­zona State and Long Beach State, they'll have to keep building on the success of this year. Hopefully, with some good pitching recruits to ease the load on Linn and solid hitting recruits to provide offensive firepower, future Notre Dame softball teams will enjoy the fruits of the hard work the 1989 edition has put towards building the program. 
Scholastic 


rt COMPILED BY JEFF TILTON 


round of 90 while KERRIE WAGNER and LIZ PODEN followed with scores of 91 and 93, re­The Irish lacrosse team gave solid perform­
LACROSSE 

spectively. 
ATHLETE
This weekend the team travels to Blooming­
ances last week in posting two important victo­
OF THE
ton, IN to compete in the Indiana Invitational. 
ries against Air Force and Wooster. After a late 
WEEK:
rush by the Falcons, co-captain JOHN OLM­STEAD scored three goals in the fourth quarter 
JAMES
MEN'S GOLF 

to insure the 10-7 victory. MIKE QUIGLEY 
SASS: Sass, a scored one goal and added three assists while 
The men's team is coming off a rough outing 
senior from BRIAN McHUGH had two goals and one assist 
at the Purdue Invitational, finishing last in a field 
Louisville, KY, in the game. Olmstead scored two goals in the 
of seven teams. The tournament was shortened 
enjoyed another outstanding week at the plate 
8-7 win over Wooster, moving him into third 
due to torrential rains. PAUL NOLTA led the 
for the Irish baseball team. In the past six place on the all-time scoring list with 127 points. 
Irish at Purdue with rounds of 77 and 80. 
games Sass is 11-21 with 18runs battedin,four The Irish face Kenyon on Saturday at home. 
The men hope to tum this performance around 
ofwhich were game winning hits. He leads the 
They are 8-0 against Kenyon in series play. 
this weekend at the Indianapolis Invitational. 
team with a .393 batting average and 29 RBI. 
SOFTBALL 
MEN'S TRACK 
The softball team (See story page 17) swept 

The men's track team, though hampered by Loyola on Friday, posting scores of 5-1 and 12­
cold temperatures and gusty winds, performed The team is back in action in 10 days for th 
well in a non-scoring meet with the Georgetown 
2. On Saturday the team dropped a double­
MCC championships at St. Louis on April 15 an header to Wisconsin-Green Bay, 2-0 and 6-5. 
Hoyas. Winners in the field events were JOHN 
16. The Irish travel to Indianapolis this Friday to 
COLE in the high jump, FRANK MONT AEON 1-----------------1 compete in the Midwest Collegiate Conference 
in theshotput,GREG MATTEO on the pole vault, 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

tournament. Notre Dame is 6-3 thus far in 
JOHN STEWART in javelin and TONY SMITH 1-----------------1 games against conference opponents. 
in the discus. GLENN WATSON and PETER 
The women's team is now holding on to DEMEO captured the 110 meter and 400 meter 
eight match win streak. On Friday Notre Dam 

hurdles while MIKE DRAKE took the 5,000
WOMEN'S GOLF 

defeated SIU-Edwardsville 5-2 with only fou meter run. 
matches played to completion. CeCe CAHILL The women's golf team started off the 
The Irish are off this week as they prepare to 
KIM PACELLA, KA TIE CLARK, and CA TH spring with a third place finish at the University 
attend the Stanford Invitational on April 15. 
BRADSHAW posted wins. On Sunday the Iris of Indianapolis Invitational and a team score of topped Eastern Michigan 8-1. 
371. CAROLYN BURKE led the way with a 
WOMEN'S TRACK 

The Irish continue play this weekend, facin 
,-----,--.,,.,,,,,--,-----r-----------------1 
Ohio State on Friday and Michigan State 1-----------i 
The Irish women competed in the non-scoring 
Sunday. Purdue Invitational last weekend, with MEG DA VIN and THERESA RICE capturing firsts in 
BASEBALL

ATHLETE 
the 400 meters and 3000 meters, respectively. 
OF .THE 
The team travels to Manchester, IN to com­
The Notre Dame baseball team (See stor
WEEK: 
pete in the Manchester Relays on Saturday, April 
page 12) won all three of its games last week C e C e 8. 
notching a victory against Chicago State o CAHILL: --------------------1 Wednesday(7-l)andadoubleheadersweepofSt Cahill, a so­MEN'S TENNIS 
Louis on Saturday (1-0 and 6-2). phomore from 
The pitchers were the highlight of the week Hinsdale, IL, 
The men's team started well at Ball State last 
allowing only three runs in as many games. weekend, with DAVE DiLUCIA and WALTER 
BRIAN PIOTROWICZ struck out ten batters i 
won her eighth straight tennis match last week­DOLHARE capturing the first two matches. 
eight innings ofwork against Chicago State, whil 
end in improving her spring record to 14-1. On Dilucia won 6-3, 7-5 for his seventh straight and 
ERIK MADSEN struck out eight and allow
Friday she overcame Christina Bokelund of 19th of his last 20. Dolhare lost his first set only 
only two hits as he hurled Notre Dame's firs
SIU-Edwardsville 6-1, 7-6 (7-2), following up to take the next two with scores of 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
shutout of the season.
on Sunday with a 6-1, 6-0 thrashing ofEastern These were the only victories ofthe day, however; 
The team will travel to Cincinnati to pla
Michigan's Marta Varanda. Cahill is 21-5 for as they dropped the rest of the singles matches and 
Xavier in a pair ofdoubleheaders April 8-9. Thei 
the year. all of the doubles. 
record stands at 15-5, their best start in 26 years. 


Lectures 

Institute for International Peace Studies "Deadly Convergence: The State of the Arms Trade," Michael Klare, directed five college programs in Peace and World Security Studies, Hamshire College. 12 noon in room 101 of the Law School. Brown bag lunch. 
Institute for International Peace Studies "Low Intensity Warfare," Michael Klare. 4 p.m. in room 105 of the Law School. 
ND Department of Law "Gender and Moral Theory," Onora O'Neill. 4 p.m. in room 115 of the Law School. 
ND College of Arts and Letters AT&T Visiting Scholar Series "Breaking the Cycle of Disadvantage by Building on Our Successes," Lisbeth B. Schorr, Social Medicine & Health Policy, Harvard Medical School. In the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4: 15p.m. 
Discussion 

Peace with Justice Week presents Gene Siske!, Chicago Tribune and TV film critic, will review and discuss the film series, highlighting the cultural value of financial success. From 6:30 to 9 p.m. in 
the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
Film Series 

Friends of the Snite Museum of Art film series, "After the Thin Man," 1936, starring William Powell. In the An­nen~urg Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
Concert 

Campus Ministry, the ND Department of Music and Student Activities present "A Night of Spirituals" at 8 p.m. in Sacred 
Heart Church. 

Movie Tennis Psycho at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Notre Dame Women vs. Ohio State 
THURSDAY, APR. 6 

Engineering Auditorium .. University. At 2 p.m. on the Courtney I};i~~~~~~~~~~~~~til Courts. 
FRIDAY, APR. 7 

AA Meeting 
Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at 7:30 a.m. in the Holy Cross House. 
Faculty Forums 
Institute of International Peace Studies Faculty Forum "The Future of Peace Studies," Michael Klare. In room 135 of the Law School. Please call 239-6970 
Center for Social Concerns Friday Forum for Faculty and Staff, "Communalism, Minorities and Nation States in the Middle East," Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C., Assistant Professor in Anthropology. Brown Bag lunch or purchase soup and bread for $1. From 12:15 to 1 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Friends of the Snite Museum lecture "Hollywood and the Stars," Brenda Madden; member of the Snite Museum staff. At 2 p.m. in the Print, Drawing and Photography Galley of the Snite. 
Center for Social Concerns "The Struggle of Women in Appalachia," Barbara Green of the Women's Mountain Exchange (eastern Tennessee). At 4 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Snite Museum of Art lecture, "Treasures of the Smithsonian," Charlene James­Duguid, program director, Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program. At the Northern Indiana Historical Society, 112 Lafayette Blvd. at 7 p.m. Cost is $3. 

Jazz Festival 
ND Collegiate Jazz Festival. At 7:30 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Call 239-7757 for ticket information. 
Films Wings of Desire sponsored by the ND Communication and Theater Department Praised as a movie which stretches the boundaries of the medium, Director Wim W enders' latest effort blends rich black and white photography with bursts of color in a story of a tired angel who falls in love with a trapeze artist he is protecting. At 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. 
The Big Easy at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in the Cushing Engjneering Auditorium. 
Music 
SMC Center for Spirituality "Sweet Honey in the Rock," Washington, D.C. based, a capella quintet. At 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Please call 284­4626 for ticket information. 
SATURDAY, APR. 8 

Service Project 
Christmas In April 
One-day volunteer work session to renovate and repair homes of elderly, handicapped and poor residents in the Northeast Neighborhood of the South Bend Community. 
Exam 
Graduate Record Exam at 7 a.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
Lectures 
Smithsonian Institute lecture "The Golden 

Scholastic 

Age of Flight," Claudia Oakes, Curator, Department of Aeronautics, National Air and Space Museum. At 10 a.m: at the Mishawaka-Penn Public Library, 209 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka. Cost is $3. 
"Behind the Scenes at the National Air and Space Museum," Claudia Oakes. 3 
p.m. at the Recital Hall on the campus of Indiana University at South Bend. 
"The Fate of the Tropical Rain Forest," Michael Robinson, Director of the National Zoological Park. In the Carroll Auditorium of Madeleva Hall (SMC) at 1 
p.m. Cost is $3. 
"Artists and Their Studies," William McNaught, New York Area Director of the Archives of American Art. At 4 p.m. in the Warner Gallery at 120 South St. Joseph Street. Tickets are $3. 
Jazz Festival 
Beginning at 11:30 a.m. in Stepan Center, and again at 7:30 p.m. Please call 239­7757 for ticket information. 
Baseball 
Notre Dame vs. Xavier University in Cincinnati , Ohio, on the Xavier campus. 
Lacrosse 
Notre Dame vs. Kenyon at 1:30 p.m. on Moose Kraus Field. 
Concert 
Smithsonian Institute Concert, "Music In My Pockets," Jeff Warner, Folksinger in 
the Smithsonian National Association Associate Program. At 7 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Tickets are $5. 
Special Event 
ICE CAPADES: Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Friday at 10:30 
a.m. and 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 11:30 a.m., 3:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 1 and 5 p.m. 
Movie 
Young Guns at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
MONDAY, APR. 10 
Movies 
On the Town at 7 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Ann Miller sing and dance their way through New York in this adaptation of the Broadway hit by Leonard Bernstein. 
Forty Guns at 9 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Barbara Stanwyck and Barry Sullivan star in this wildly dramatic Sam Fuller western about the self­appointed land baroness of TombstoneTerritory who runs into trouble when the town marshal shows up. 
TUESDAY, APR. 11 
Movies 
Pickpocket at 7 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditoriurp. Director Robert Bresson's magnificent drama about a thief, his techniques, motives and secret existence. The famous scene of the pickpockets' magical raid on a train station ranks as one of the great tours-de-force of modem French Cinema. 
Saturday Night and Sunday Morning at 9 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Albert Finney stars in this grim, yet refreshing look at an angry young man who, in a burst of nonconformity, alters the lives of his girlfriends. 
WEDNESDAY, APR.12 
Movie 
Cry Freedom at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 
South Bend A·rea Movies 
Forum Theater 
The Rescuers 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 The Burbs 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Leviathan 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
100 Center Twins 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Land Before Time 1, 3, 5 Mississippi Burning 7, 9: 15 
Scottsdale Mall 
Troop Beverly Hills 1:45, 4, 6:30, 9 Chances Are 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 
Town and Country 
Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Ski.n Deep 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 "1969" 1:50, 3:50, 5:50, 7:50 9:50 
University Park East 
Worki.ng Girl 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Rain Man 1:30, 4:15, 7, 9:35 Chances Are 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Lean On Me 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Troop Beverly Hills 1:35, 3:40, 5:45, 7:50, 9:55 Sing 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
University Park West 
Dead Bang 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:50, 10 Dangerous Liasons 2, 4:30, 9:30 Fletch Lives 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 9:40 The Dream Team 7:30 
**Purchase your movie tickets for University Park Cinemas, Forum Cinemas and Town and Country Cinemas at the Information Desk in LaFortune Student Center and receive special student discount rates. 

Final Word 

I. What We Can Do For You 

BY MATT BRESLIN AND DA VE KINKOPF STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 



0 n March 1, we celebrated a vic­tory that will affect us for -the rest of our lives. It was you, the student body, who had enough confidence in us to elect us to the positions of student body president and vice-president. You have given us an opportunity to lead what we feel is the most effective organization oncampus: studentgovernment. Somany students contributed to our victory­people hanging posters, putting in a good word for us, and those ofyou who voted for us. We thank you for what you have done. Now, it is our turn to tell you what we can do for you. We have worked in student govern­ment in the past and know what we will re­alistically be able to accomplish next year. Based on this, we consider our responsi­bilities and our goals to lie in four major areas. The first is student services. There are so many little things that can bedone on this campus that would make life so much easier for so many. It is our responsibility to get these ideas implemented. Phones in classroom buildings, bus service to the airport at breaks, and lockers in dining halls are practical ideas that can be real­ized. Another way in which to serve the stu­dent body is by increasing everyone's awareness of intellectual life issues. At Notre Dame, a prestigious and superb academic institution, we should heighten our awareness on academic, political, social, and cultural issues. Tom Doyle and Mike Paese did an excellent job by focus­ing on this area during their administration last year. We want to e<;>n­tinue events such as the Iceberg Debates and the voter registration drive. Further­more, we plan on expanding this area through the creation of a legal department within student government that explores issues directly affecting students so we have information to back us up if a pressing issue should be brought to the administration's attention. Also, we are in the process ofcreating a National Catholic Organization which would bring students from other Catholic universities together to discuss important issues that all college students face. Finally, through coordinat­ing the efforts and bolstering the commit­ment of student government organizations and University groups to the intellectual life on campus, we hope to greatly increase the range and depth of issues discussed on our campus. 
One of our most important responsi­bilities is representing the students effec­tively to theadministration. Somuchofour job involves working with the administra­tion in order to get the "final O.K." on new ideas or asking for their support on issues affecting students. We are working dili­gently to establish a good rapport with uni­versity leaders through letters and meet­ings to discuss our ideas. 
Our final task as president and vice­president is to try to increase the amount of communication between student govern­ment and the student body. We honestly believe a lot can be done in our roles this year, but we want you to know what is being planned and done through student government. We will be making a con­certed effort to present high quality public­ity (posters and newsletters) that will catch the eye of students. If you know what we are doing, it makes our job easier while providing you with valuable information. 
Already, these positions have changed our Iives. We are busier than ever trying to select the best cabinet possible as well as meeting with administrators to make our­selves known. In a meeting with Fr. Mal­loy, he told us to enjoy our positions and that is something that we plan on doing. We want to get the job done and get it done right while enjoying it, so we can look back on this as an incredible experience. After selecting ourcabinet, we will be able to get moving towards our specific goals. We both plan on attending summer school so we can get a running start on achieving those goals and have a little more time to do so. Weknow that our schedules will be busy and that there will be times when we won't be able to go to the bars or we'll end up missing that great party to work on stu­dent government ideas. But we know it is worth it. 
We know that our goals are not always going to be easy to achieve, but we also believe our goals are quite valuable for all ofus. So, thank you for what you have given us: the opportunity to serve you. We look forward to working diligently to see what we can do for you! Ill 
Breslin is from Morrestown, NJ, and Kinkopf from Lakewood, OH. They will both be seniors next year. 



I111prove the Libraryo Nowe 
otre Dame's library was recently ranked 74th among a pool of 105 
research libraries in the United States and Canada. Because of different 
needs as well as different sizes, making such a ranking is like comparing apples and oranges. The adequacy of our library, however, is called into question by such a statistic. With regard to the money directed towards the library, the number of people on staff and the manner in which the library serves the needs of the students, the Notre Dame library system needs significant improvement. 
With only five of the 105 universities examined spending less money on their respective library, Notre Dame needs to reevaluate the priority which library funding takes. Similarly, the university needs to increase the number of people employed to serve the library. Only 14 libraries had a smaller staff. 
"We're concerned less with the numerical rating than with how well we're meeting everyone's needs," said Robert Miller, director of university libraries, in an article appearing in the March 31 issue ofThe Observer. The students' needs are definitely more important than a number. 
The University ofNotre Dame, however, fails to meet many of the needs of the students in the area of library accessibility. Later hours are simply a must, regardless of the size ofthe university. Students often study past 11:45 p.m. and the university is taking a naive view if they believe the needs of the students are being met by a· library that closes at this time. Exam week is an even more flagrant oversight. A significant number of students pull all-nighters every day of exam week. The library should, consequently, accommodate these students by remain­ing open 24 hours a day at these select times. 
The administration has demonstrated a willingness to improve its library facilities. The addition of the computer lab, for example, was a necessary and important addition. The dedication to the improvement of the library, however, should be greatly increased. 
-Scholastic 

Ernie Pook's Comeek 

TH EN Tr\t S0VND OF ~IM IN n\E KffCHEN1 Tr\E BAc.K ODOR OPENIN6, T\-\£ Sc.REcN 
DOOR THE KEYS DROPPIN(:i IN THE DR\VE 
WA'( ~s C.AR DOO~, AN01"t\ENJ You 
cou~D JUST BAREL'j \\EAR ,,, THe-sovtJD 
HE STAR.TEO ACTING LtK'e. HE: \Vf\S DR.I­VI NGAND lT SUD0£N,L~ MADE. /\\E· FEEL. So LONEL'< ANOt DON'T EVEN KNOW WH'(. I LEANED MY t\EAD AGAINST TI\E IC.E COLO GLASS ANO WATC.HED 1-\IM FOR. ASoi/T A MILLION ~EARS UNTIL I NO­TICED BRIGHT LIGHT AND THE SHAPE OF MY MoTrtER.1S FEET AND HER VOIU SAYI N(, '' FoR THE LOVE' OF GoD WH-:, ARe. '(OU SLEEP1N<:, ON TI\€ K\Tt\-\ EN FLOOR.? ~~ • -_ 
. . 

PRAYER:DoN'f LET MoM WAKE_~ AT 1l4E WIND(N./ l LOOKED AT I-HM IN THE GREEN 
UNDERWATER LIG\-\'t Of TH~ DASH BoARq 
MOVING HIS LIPS TO THE MUSIC. AND 
SMOKING A PEN LI KE I\ CIGAl<ETTE. TH£N \-\E PVL\.ED OUT THE LIGHTER AND STAR,ED MAK\Nt.1 616 GLOWING ORANGE 
W~ TI-\AT FLOATED IN THE" AIR. 


'NGo!.' I' "'JA l<.tLL. ~O 
OU ObNT 
SLEEP ~I 
No ,1 







