
I.I 



THE TWENTY-FIFTH OF SEPTEMBER, 2003 · " . _.· . 
_1\l\BLE OF-CO'tNTEN.l7S. , · · _.: 
» Taking Apart the Endowment by Eileen Varga 14 » The Secret of her Success by Lauren Wilcox 20 » Changing Roles by Mike lselin 24 » Running the Show by Christopher Meskill 26 » Going to Extremes by Dan McSwain 29 » From the Drawing Board by Lauren Kiehna 33 
From the Editor .........2 Week in Distortion . . . . . 34 ND Notebook . 4 Calendar . . 35 Campus Watch 21 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 36 Out of Bounds 28 


AreYou Being Served? 
Food Services might not be the most exciting topic for a cover story, but it's an issue that affects every student and therefore naturally pervades both formal and informal campus dialogue. Through forums ranging from stu­dent body presidential campaigns to daily dining hall banter, Food Services has been accused ofover-charging and under-serving students. Excessively expensive meals, too few Flex Points, apathy towards student desires and inequality between the dining halls are just some of the complaints. But despite the impact that Food Services has on students' lives, much of this debate has not been grounded in fact. Though it's natural to question the fairness behind many of the organization's policies, such as charging students for more meals than they collectively eat, something ofFood Ser­vices' costs and demands must first be understood before a valid criticism can be formulated. In this issue, Scholastic's Jim Ryan explores some commonly-held concep­tions ofFood Services and examines the truth (or lack thereof) behind them 
look for 
(p.8). Particularly intriuging is the comparison ofNotre Dame's system with 
ISSUE 04 
on that ofother colleges. vVhile North and South Dining Hall don't typically 

OCT9 
blow ND students away with their quality and selection, they're impressive when compared to the dining halls of our peer· schools. 
We hope the article provides you with a greater understanding ofthis im­portant debate, whether it debunks any myths you once believed or further strengthens your criticisms (or a little of both). 
The issues surrounding Food Services do not end with Flex Points and dining hall prices. For a perspective on workers' rights at a Catholic institu­tion, supplemental to those presented in the article, see "Final Word" by '87 alumnus Kurt Peterson (p. 36). 
And, if all this Food Services talk still leaves you unsatiated, check out Tracy Evans' review ofYesterday's restaurant in Granger (p. 30). 


Mike Borgia, Executive Editor 
Clarification: In last issue's cover story ("A Closer Look," 9-11-03), it might have been unclear that the summer scholarships offered by the inter­national association GALA-ND/SMC are offered to all students, regardless of sexual orientation, as long as intended studies involve GLBQ issues. 
Correction: In last issue's restaurant review ("Smooth Sailing Ahead," 9-11-03), a production error prevented the correct rating from showing with the article. The restaurant received four out offive stars. 
Vol, 145, No, 03 • 25 SEPT 2003 


SCHOLaSTIC 
--.] Editor in Chief [ 
l Matt KIiien 
I Managing Editor 
i Annie Robinson 
Executive Editor 
Mike Borgia 
Executive Design Editor 
Ryan Greenberg 
News Christopher Kelly, editor Jim Ryan, assistant 
Eileen Varga, assistant 
Campus Life 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports 
Jimmy Atkinson, editor 
Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Ryan Greene, assistant 
Departments 
Meghan Gowan, editor 
Design Nick Abrams, cover David Redenbaugh Vanessa Saenz Vanessa Arita Alice Bonifield 
Megan Rolfes 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor 
Phi! Hall, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham. editor 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief Mo Ertel, assistant John Hadley, assistant JenniferWadkins Kim Thompson Cassandra Meyer 
Casey Stanton 
Distribution 
Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
Jessie Potish, manager 
Mary Ursu, manager i t_ ) O_nline . 
)' j Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
/. l Advisor '..J Robert Franken '69 
l 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmts Vive Quasi Cms i\1oritunts 
!, 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright 2003 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner witho.ut written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters.must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Ludachristopher is in the house. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. i 
Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days aher publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the 
annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Adver~ tising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 


Afraid ofgiving up too much? 

Fr. Ted Hesburgh; C.S.C., Congressional Gold Medal, Presidential Medal of Freedom, priest for sixty years. 

-Come and receive even more. 

Be Not Afraid! 


Ill Air the Dirty Laundry
I Staying clean is costing a little more this year 
W
HALLE KIEFER 
the university's laundry service, the wash price was set at $1.00 hether scrubbing a sweat-per use. During the intervening encrusted Shirt or rinsing years, ND Vending kept the origi­
. 

. , the memory of another nal pricing, despite the variation beer-drenched weekend out of a pair in outside charges. The laundry of black pants, Notre Dame students costs are reliant on the changes recently have been shelling out more in water and electricity pricing as for laundry services than ever before, well as wastewater disposal fees, all as the cost of washing machines on ofwhich have risen over the years, campus has been raised 25 percent Winter says. And while food and from last year's price of $1.00. St. beverage vending machines' pric­Michael's dorm laundry service rose ing can be increased in five-cent in the double-digit percents from increments, the physical mecha­last year, as well (St. Michael's did nism of the washing machines not return repeated requests for an will only allow for an increase interview). With the rising tuition of a quarter at a time, he says. rates, this new hurdle in the path Essentially, in the 10 years since towards personal hygiene couldn't the amount was set, ND Vending have come at a worse time for the has been absorbing fluctuations in financially strapped Domer. The costs in an attempt to prevent a question is, why is getting clean get­25-cent increase in price. Unfor­ting so expensive? laundry services was an unavoidable tunately for the soiled student body, it 
According to ND Vending Man­step following a 10-year price freeze. was decided this year that the cost was ager Dean Winter, a price increase on In 1993, when Food Services assumed enough to merit a price hike. D 

Ten Questions 
with the man on the beat 

Capt. Joseph I 
-----, 


Araman
~);
\,~,~-:
\ .f!ifff)i' Notre Dame ~(ffi}~:. Security/

11~, ,'' ' 1· Of:fi
;J,f r , ;-, ,\ Po ice cer 
/f\ I~ s1,\ 
;--~-, 

I 
i 
On football Satttrdays, thottsands of guests co11Ze to Sottth Bend, and thousands offans park their cars in open fields surrounding ca11Zp1ts. Area police direct traffic at these sites, and Scholastic caught ttp with Captain Joseph Ara11Zan ofthe Notre Da11Ze Seeztrity/Police on the corner ofJuniper and We/worth before last week's football ga11Ze. He told us about his role in the ga11Ze day festivities. 
How long have you been on the police force? 
24 years. 

Do you like your job? 
Yes, I do. Notre Dame's been good to me. The students are great, the faculty and staff are great. 

What one word would you use to describe a football Saturday? 
Busy. When Notre Dame throws a par­ty, they throw a party. Our service calls go up, [but] we want to serve guests in any way we can. 
How long do you stay at this post parking cars? 
Whenever they [Redden Parking, the company that runs parking on game days] inform us that the east lots are full, we put [the cars] on this field, be­cause there's no other place for them to 
4 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

m n6q1. Banana Republic~con­.• ver~~ard ~tudent ~n S~uth Quad 
"Youkno~. i~a~ ge>i!lg to ~r; ~!ld tr~nsfer tti N~t;~ Dame next year, · but then Igc:it arrested inst:~11.d:' · · . . . ' · · · -OVE!!rhe~rd' Michigan student 
.'· : 

"It's only Canadii.. It's not like it's a real foreign country:• -overheard student 
"Why does it a/ways smell like to_ilst on campus!" 
-engineeringTA 
.·.• 

"Could you believe this man would urinate 'down your shoulders?" . . . -Irish history professor, 
referring to an-lr,sh revolutionary figure 



53 Years Ago 
Huddling Together 

Itwas outwith the old Huddle and in with the new Student Union: 
"Close by the protective wing ofWashington Hall and lookingfor all the world like the mis­begotten offspring ofthe Halland the Old Gym lies the matchbox-like Huddle. The name is quite appropriate because during bzmness hours customers manage to pack themselves within its four walls in amanner that would make even a sardine shudder ... 
Nearly 1,600 people pass through the little pillbox'sportals every day, stoppinglong enough to purchase anyth,ing from tooth paste [sic] to Tootsie Rolls, pretzels to pipes ... 
Tourists and visitors to the campus have car­ried tales home to theirfriends ofthe 'prison at Notre Dame' after one glance at the bars over the Huddle's windows; The archives make no mention ofthe building being used as a Bastille. Quite to the contrary, the bars are meant to keep eager cli1mtelle out. It was during the 'roaring t:wenties'thatmanystudentsfound itprudentto wait zmtil nighifa~to obtain their candy." 
go. We'd end up with a traffic jam on Juniper, and that's not safe. Three and a half hours before kickoff, we go into a one-way pattern. So, at 10:00 a.m., the county police take over and I leave. 
What else do you do all day? 
I patrol anything but the stadium. We have to patrol all the lots. Campus is like a ghost town; we feel very vulner­able, so somebody has to patrol. 
How much of the police force do you use? _ Hundreds on game day-county, city, Mishawaka, IUSB .'.. We have a lot of people. 
Do fans give you a lot of trouble? Compared to other campuses I've been to, we are blessed. Our problem is far less. The general quality of the public here and our guests is very good. 
Are there usually arrests? 
Yes, a few. We tend not to go out of our way with arrests because the of­ficer gets tied up for a couple of hours. It's a costly proposition. When we do [arrest someone], we've exhausted all other avenues. It's a last resort. · 


Do you work every football Saturday? 
Yes, I haven't been to a football game 

The buildings may change, but the stu­dents will always steal from the Huddle. 
-Meghan Gow~n 

in 24 years, even though I have season tickets. Usually my wife and kids go. I'm looking forward to retirement when I can have a hot dog and watch the game like everybody else. 
Do you look forward to the winter months then, when you don't have a huge event on Saturdays? 
The campus is never quiet. We start with football, then we have basketball, hockey, concerts, camps in the summer ... You kind of prepare yourself for each season. We kind of know what the rhythm is. 
-Carolyn LaFave 

25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 
0.PASTEL ND APPAREL · Since when are blue, gold and 
· -· · green too masculine for our female students and fans? Let's create more gender issues on campus, please. 

0 
MARSHMALLOW 
CRACKDOWN 
This isn't exactly the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man from Ghostbusters we're talking about here. Let the kids have their fun! 


"BEST CAMPUS, WORST 

TOWN" 
Now, come on, we all know that the ethanol smell is a bit ... distracting, but SI On Campus' rating was too harsh. It's not like South Bend is a frigid ice­wonderland most of the year. Wait a minute ... 



O'SHAG CLOCK 
Hmm, the same week Judgment Calls complains about it, it gets fixed ... before we went to press. We suspect a conspiracy, but are too lazy to concoct one. But kuclos on having a clock that, amazingly.­can tell time. 



DE-COUPLED 
WNDU has pulled the new NBC sitcom because they deem it beyond the pale of decency for the surrounding community. Maybe they're replacing it with 30 minutes of non-stop Chopper 16 helicopter footage. 

IDomeLights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 
NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 




Jxj1'\(:::F.a1iing::.o<iwn';:~.:~:.;-:.;,;:_::;.:~;:.:f:'.;i~::'.G;;fr,f'<>,.\:tA 
~~;: ~~~~n of ~i---]sj~~ i~ ~~ ~ rn~k~ f'? 
IBYANGREENE . 



'--J_J,=,,=-.~= 

all is in the air and with it comes a the lurch. 
new season of television. From old Other returning favorites include 
favorites to new prospects, the ol' NYPD Blue, CSI and Everwood. Also look idiot box once again promises hours of for Angel to benefitin a Buffy-less world, mindless entertainment. as it gains both a major character in Spike, 
This looks to be a big year for NBC the vampire everyone loves to hate, as well comedies. Both Friends and Frasier are as much-anticipated guest appearances by entering their final seasons after long-the Slayer herself. · time runs as two of the most popular And don't forget reality television. The comedies on television. Though you can likes of Fear Factor, Joe Millionaire, The expect the usual proposals, pregnancies Bachelor and that greatest of all car wrecks and plenty of other you just can't help but ratings-grabbing, watch, Survivor, return "surprise" twists, The best dramas on to prove just how crass 
both shows will be television return with American television going for broke and can be. But hey, who taking no prisoners, a whole slew of sur-doesn't_enjoythe crazy whichcanonlymean prises. anticsofanoverweight, more laughs for us. mentally _imbalanced 
The ever-popular youth counselor in Will & Grace and CBS's Everybody Loves a skirt fighting for an axe-shaped im­Raymond, perhaps the most diametrically munity idol? That's entertainment at its opposed shows ever to share a sentence, best, folks. return to Thursday and Monday nights, Of course, the networks do have a respectively. One will continue to show · few promising new possibilities in the America how much fun flirting with ste-works. reotype can be and the other will con-NBC may continue to dominate the tinue to prove that family life is a swirling . land of comedy with Happy Family and vortex of misery. Coup/in!; The acerbic wit and charm ofthe 
Meanwhile, the best dramas on televi-John Laroquette and Chri~tine Baranski sion return with a whole slew of surprises. duo alone make Family worth watching, Alias, ABC's super-sexy spy thriller, and and it should be interesting to see how The West Wing left audiences hanging network television manages .to pull off with a pair of shocking finales that turned a comedy that seems to revolve almost both series on their heads. Just cross your exclusively around sex. Although South fingers that the departure ofcreator/writ-Bend's university-owned NBC affiliate, er Aaron Sorkin and director/executive WNDU, will not be airing Coupling, due producer Tommy Schlamme doesn't leave· to its aforementioned premise. everyone's favorite fictional president in Go figure. .. 
F
. 

Ever wonder how your GPA measures up to Mom's and Pop's? It is getting more and more difficult (numerically speaking) to graduate with any sort of honors. Here is the Historical Honors GPA information you have been longing for: 
1965-1969  1994-2004  2005-????  
3.25 Cum Laude  3.4 Cum Laude  top 30% Cum Laude  
3.50 Magna Cum Laude  3.6 Magna Cum Laude  top I0% Magna Cum Laude  
3.75 Maxima Cum Laude  3.8 Summa Cum Laude  top 5%  Summa Cum Laude  
(percentage of student's college/school)  

6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 0 •••••• 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 

Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
Something on your mind? 
Got an opinion? 
Write a ... 
l 

.------,--=Letter to the Editor
r:-c-::·~c: 

"-'---~--'-"--'-'--··-~~----'~~--"-~~­
... and see your name in print. scholast@nd.edu 
.·.• · · , ·· .:. · ••<.·c. • , ,.·,<,j 
·. ·.•.·.ual ,FClptb,a....·•.·iR.~~i~w.l 


Foo . 
HORDES IN THE HUDDLE Between Subway, Burger King, Starbucks, Buen Provecho, Edy's and Sbarro, Notre Dame students have plenty to choose from when the dining hall fare is monotonous. 
ain about Food me: You don't Points ... The ... The fat-free d c'mon, $5 for 
n' be that bad. vital role of 
onal pizzas in no giant Rice ddle Mart. 
ome common ood Services ton how. the st department 
Verdict: False. Food Services does not charge by the individual meal. 
The sale ofguest meals probably con­tributes to this myth. When students see that a guest dinner costs $10.35 and a guest lunch costs $9.30, some might think that this is what they pay for their meals. According to the Food Services Web site, the average meal for an off­campus student on the Flex 14 meal plan, which costs $1,960 per semester, is only $7.66. But an individual dining hall meal does not cost a specific dollar amount: The cost of a meal plan is not the sum total of all the meals a student eats over the course of the year. 
Prentkowski says that Food Services is, as the name implies, a service to the students. And though it does not seek to make a profit offofstudents, he says that Food Services must offset its op­erating costs, many of which are fixed and relate to maintaining and staffing the dining halls in addition to stocking them with food. 

"There are the obvious fixed costs like the costs ofutilities, ofrunning the building, ofpurchasing and maintain­ing the equipment," Prentkowski says. "Whether you serve 1,000 people or 5,000 people, the same piece of equip­ment has to be there." He adds, "The dining halls are designed to handle a high volume, so it takes a high volume [oflabor] just to open the doors. 
"All those costs are funneled togeth­er in an overall expense ofrunning the dining halls and then that's related to establishing the rates for room and board," Prentkowski says. 
Essentially, then, students are pay­ing for the dining halls to be available to them rather than paying for each individual meal that they eat. As a re­sult, students do not "lose" money by missing a meal; in fact, Food Services relies on students missing meals. 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

"The number ofmeals made available is just that," says Prentkowski. "We don't expect everybody to eat every meal available to them. They're just options." He says that Food Services adjusts the meal plan prices downward, assuming that every meal isn't going to be consumed. He adds that ifevery stu­dent were to eat all ofhis or her meals, then Food Services would exceed its budget, and the cost of the meal plan would likely increase. 
Myth #2: A decrease in the num­ber ofmeals.in the meal plan would allow students to have more Flex Points . .. Verdict: False. The reduction in meals would not free up enough money for a substantial increase in Flex Points. 
Last winter, the student senate re­leased a report finding that students ate just over nine meals per week. They passed a resolution calling for a new Flex 10. meal plan, offering the option of 10 meals per week with a signifi­cant increase in Flex Points. During last spring's student bcidy prt:sidential elections, several of the candidates' platforms included planks calling for similar measures. Food Services has not, however, implemented such a plan. · 
While it seems logical that reducing the number ofmeals that each student receives from 14 to 10 would save the dining halls money,~opening up more funds for Flex Points, this is not the case, Prentkowski says. 
Prentkowski says that the cost of running the dining halls would essen ­tially be the same under Flex 10 as it is for Flex 14. If the number of meals was to be reduced, he says, "The only cost saved is the meal that isn't eaten, which is only a small portion, like 25 percent to 30 percent, o:t the cost of running the dining halls. The other costs remain." 
Here again, Food Services runs into the problem ofhigh fixed costs for op­erating the dining halls. As a result, the additional Flex Points would ne­cessitate either an in~rease in the price of the meal plan or a major reduction in services to make room for the ad­ditional points in the Food Services budget. Prentkowski says he doesn't 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
think students want to make either of these concessions. 
"You would have to do something that would really cut into the costs," he says. "The kinds of things I could think of would be not serving dinner until 9:00 on weekdays or not serving breakfast at both dining halls: Things that would really dig into the service. We've chosen not to do that because what we've heard from students is that they don't want to lose those conve­niences." 
Food Services first offered the Flex 14 plan in 1997 as an alternative to the Premium 21 meal plan. At the time, students received only 20O· Flex Points per semester. Prentkowski says that Food Services did not have to cut into the dining hall programs or raise the cost of meal plans at that time be­cause the university allocated them the extra funds necessary to allow students to have Flex Points. He adds that the university continues to allocate ad­ditional funding for Flex Points at a rate concurrent with the rises in_the cost of room and board, accounting for the 245 Flex Points that students receive today. 
Prentkowski says that despite the student desire for more Flex Points, Flex 14 is the best plan that is feasible currently. He says, "We looked at [Flex 

CIVILWAR Food Services looks to quell the infamous shouting match between the quads. 
Points] from a lot of different direc­tions, and we find that the model that we have seems to be the model that satisfies everyone." He adds, "You're paying the same price for the 21 meal plan as you are the Flex 14. You're giv­ing up the right to seven meals, and in return you're getting $245. You have to realize that the cost of running the dining halls is there whether you eat meals or not. T_]:ie fact is, ifyou're not 


RICE COMPARISONS 
Obviously, the Huddle is much more convenient than off-campus stores. But how much are you paying for this convenience? Scholastic compared prices of certain items students would buy at the Huddle Mart and Meijer. 
egu·l~r: ~~•~,'
.:oz.'.<: 

mix, 8 quarts .· icrestTartar C6n.tr6f · ·<:J :ioothr,astef•~t:6:a:t.·:•,•.•. 
3-pack of Irish Spring 
15.82% 

,·.. ·•,:c:--'.{.-::)f\-i-~.):'i,::·: ·_··•·.•···•· <. ,.<.·r,. :.. ,,:...... ·.· .:.::...... ,_.. ,.··:\-: (·i(j'.if{t,r?./i..<

·So~·-on~::fl~~;,<>h1thasthe e.q~•y~lent••purc~a.~111g,p9W:~r·,•.•·
<>f-~/j:C\,,;s, ,,,: , .• T}' ,r:;7,;·· ··,·•·,... ·:'II7:tw;~;9· 
':\\·::,:i,i:<·:i,/./ ·,.._·· '.:··._•: ··.!.at off-qt.m,p~~:·grq~ers 
~·-.·. :__,;":\."·-:· . •,· . -· . . ... . . . . . 
• C li~tnichoseri. a~-;a~di>~. Noi :; scieritiftc~~udy. 
' t·/· : ', 
going to eat 21 meals, we're giving you $245, so I don't see how it's a loss for students." 
Myth #3: Food Services is slow to respond to student desires. 
Verdict: False. Food Services seeks to respond quickly to reasonable re­quests. 
For most students, communication with Food Services is limited to an annual Internet questionnaire or the comment cards near the exits of the dining halls. It takes time to collect, analyze and act upon data from these surveys, so the changes they make might not come for a semester or even longer. When a significant portion of the student body showed support for an increase in Flex Points during last year's student government elections, the request went unmet, leading many to wonder if Food Services has effec­tive means ofcommunicating with the student body. 
One of the channels connecting Food Services to the student body is the Residence Life Committee of the student senate. Jack Laskowitz, a rep­resentative of Dillon Hall, stands on · this committee. He says that the din­ing halls are one ofthe committee's top priorities, and they are in a constant dialogue with Prentkowski. Laskow­itz is pleased with the responsiveness of Food Services directors, saying, "They've been very positive and will­ing to work with us." 
Laskowitz says the committee ob­tains information from students pri­marily through word ofmouth, but oc­casionally they conduct more scientific studies, such as last winter's survey that found that the average student eats a little more than nine meals per week. 
This year, says Laskowitz, the com­mittee plans to continue the push for the establishment of a Flex 10 plan, though he adds, "Financially, we don't know if it's feasible." They also plan to make smaller suggestions. "We're not the biggest fans of Circus Night," he says, so the committee might offer alternative ideas for special dinners. Generally, Laskowitz says, Food Ser­vices has been receptive-to less sweep-::. ing changes. 
Prentkowski acknowledges the use­
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

fulness of the senate's Residence Life Committee, and he says he meets with one of their representatives at least once a month. Besides these struc­tured interactions, Prentkowski says informal conversations with students help keep Food Services updated on students concerns. Prentkowski says he also receives input from the Notre Dame students that work for Food Services. 
Prentkowski agrees with Laskowitz that Food Services is generally very receptive to student input. He says, "A lot of the things we do now have been added on as a result of student requests, like the 9:00 meal period at South Dining Hall, longer hours at lunch time, and various services that have been added like Grab 'n' Go." 
Prentkowski says Food Services wants to respond to suggestions promptly, but he says there are sometimes complicat­ing factors that prevent Food Services from responding completely to student desires. For example, when a group of students requested that nutritional information be posted in the dining hall, school psychologists worried that the information would affeet students with eating disorders. Food Services compromised by placing detailed nutri­tional information on their Web site. 
"We try to respond as quickly as we can when we hear issues," he says, though he adds, "You have to deal with the bigger picture." ­



Myth #4: The more flexible meal plans at other universities are bet­ter than the meal plans at Notre 
Dame. 
Verdict: True, ifstudents are willing to sacrifice dining hall service and selection for added flexibility. 
Notre Dame students have articulated their desire for more Flex Points to increase their din­ing options. How do programs at other universities stack up against Notre Dame's? 
Several small, private univer­sities offer meal plans with far more flexible meal points than Notre Dame's plans and almost as many dining hall meals, all at prices comparable to Notre Dame's $1,960 per semester for off-campus students. 
Duke University freshmen en­joy a meal plan similar to the Flex 10 plan proposed at Notre Dame. They start with a base of 12 all'­you-can-eat meals per week at a cost of$1,380 per semester. Then they have the option to add 500, 570, or 635 points, which cost $1 each. Upperclassmen create their own meal plans by simply purchasing the amount of points that they desire, with a maximum of $2,030 per semes­ter. Duke refunds the value of the first 100 unused points and half of the unused points after the first 100. 

Cornell University, for $1,927 per semester, offers 14 all-you-can-eat meals, four bonus meals to be used any­time, and 500 -Big Red Bucks (similar to Notre Dame's Flex Points). Cornell also offers a 10-meal plan with four bonus meals and 500 Big Red Bucks for $1,800 per semester. 
Boston College offers its students unlimited all-you-can-eat meals for $1,725. They have the option of pur­chasing Eagle Bucks for $1 apiece. Therefore, an unlimited meal plan with 500 Eagle Bucks would cost $2,225. Boston College also refunds any un­used Eagle Bucks upon graduation. 
While these meal plans seem to suggest the feasibility of a more flex­ible plan at Notre Dame, Prentkowski defends Notre Dame's current plan. "We've considered and looked at just about every model and plan and deter­mined that the one we have is the best fit for this situation," he says. 
Prentkowki says too much flexibility detracts from the service in the din­ing halls. He cites the University of Washington's transition to a more flex­ible meal plan as an example. 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 11

25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
SERVICEWITH A SMILE Swiping cards might seem like a tedious job, but Food Services compensates employees well. 
Dame students rated Food Services a 4.06, while the national average was 3.61, and the private university aver­age was 3.77. 
Myth #5: Food Services is prevent­

ing its employees from unionizing. 
Verdict: False. Food Services em­ployees have never approached man­agement about unionizing, and Food Services management has never de­clared opposition to such an effort. 
An August issue of Sports Illustrated brought to light the efforts ofCourtney Watson to lobby for the unionization of Food Services workers. In fact, none of the university employees are unionized, and some students want to see this changed. 
Kate Maich, former co-president of the Progressive Student Alliance, says that some university employees feel "invisible" and "overlooked" and fear that they can't speak up to the admin­istration. Maich says that while the 
P.S.A. feels it is not appropriate for it to call explicitly for employees to union­ize, they have asked the university for a statement of neutrality with regards to unions. The university declined to make such a statement. 
Prentkowski says that the university is not, however, opposed to" unioniza­tion. "The university is not going to 
le Mart is yet another on-campus option for hungry students, but selection is limited and prices might be higher 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

stand in the way if the em­
ployees want to unionize," 
he says, adding that Food 
Services employees have 
never approached him about 
unionizing. 
Prentkowski feels that 

Food Services workers are 
justly compensated, as the 
university pays a comparable, 
ifnot higher, wage than other 
similar institutions and offers 
a number of benefits. "We 
have a lot of long term em­
ployees, and it's not unusual 
to see people retire from 
here with 50 years of em­
ployment," he says. "I think 
in general they're happy with 
the way things are and feel 
that the university is a good 
employer." 
Maich agrees that the uni­versity is generally a good 
place to work. "The uni-SUB STOPThe Huddle's Subway is a popular student locale and a source of frustratingly long lines. versity offers many benefits that are fantastic," she says. "A lot of employees are really well in the dining halls, however, Prent­He also foresees potential changes in ­compensated." kowski says. "They do things a little food presentation, preparation and 
bit different," he says. "North now has serving. ­
Myth #6: One dining hall is better individual pizzas made to order, and The superiority of one dining hall than the other. South doesn't. We allow the dining over another is probably in the eye of Verdict: Decide for yourself. halls to do what they do best and try the beholder. "I saw an article in The to let them offer unique things that Observer that said North Dining Hall is 
Itmay seem as though this debate has their facility allows them to do." better than South," says Prentkowski. raged since Father Sorin established Prentkowski thinks some students "It depends on who you talk to. Even the university in 1842. In reality, the perceive one dining hall as superior to though it is perceived that South Din­debate has existed only since 1958, the other simply because ofthe physical ing Hall has more variety than North, when North Dining Hall was erected differences in the buildings. "At North actually I thinkNorth has more variety to complement its neighbor to the [the food is] so spread out," he says, than South." south. The general perception among . "but at South its all in the same area, so While the complaining and criti­students seems to be that "South is I guess it looks more impressive." cizing might never cease, maybe the better" (Several dining hall workers Physical changes are in store, how­disgruntled dining hall visitor will un­even started donning T-shirts with ever, for North Dining Hall. "At some derstand a little more about the reality this slogan last semester), but .there point we see doing some renovations behind Food Services. Except maybe is a vocal and significant minority of and upgrades in NDH," says Prent­the secret behind those mysterious sea North Dining Hall supporters (Some kowski. "Some of it is necessary just nuggets. D North employees countered with "I to keep the building up and running. love North" T-shirts). 
Prentkowski says that de­spite the perception, the din­ing halls are ·essentially the same, adding that the dining halls share a head supervisor and, generally, the same food. "The lasagna you eat in one is the same as the lasagna you eat in t~e other," he says. 
There are some differences 

25 SEPTEMBER 2003 



INTHE NAME OF ARTSThe Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts is just one project that benefits from the endowment. 


Taking Apart ­
the Endowment 
Everyone hears about it. Everyone knows it exists. But what exactly is the endowment? 
EILEENVARGA AND CHRISKELLY 
At some point while at Notre Dame, every student has heard talk ofthe endowment. You hear about it going up and down, and you hear that Notre Dame has "billions of dollars" to its name. But what exactly is the endowment, and how does it affect the daily lives of students? Simply put, an endowment is the funds or assets that are donated to a uni­versity as a source ofincome. The Notre Dame endowment, a massive fund that has risen to over $3 billion in value, is the 19th largest educational endowment 
14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
in the country. The goal of any such endowment is to provide a constant stream of earnings for a university's operations·. A uniquely American phe­nomenon, the concept of endowment flourished in the U.S. because tax laws supported philanthropy. Holding funds in an endowment lessens government interference at a university and allows the university to pursue goals that it deems important. 
Over the last five fiscal years, $443 million has been spent from Notre­Dame's account to fund school opera­tions varying from student :financial aid to the library's electronic catalogue. It is the financial lifeblood of the univer­sity, helping to cover over $100 million in current expenditures. ­
The nature ofthe endowment is simi­lar to a mutual fund, in which investors' money is pooled and invested in a di­verse portfolio. In terms of the endow­ment, the contribution of a benefactor, or donor, is ·converted into a "share." All the shares are pooled to create the whole endowment. So, the university's endowment consists of about 3,600 individual endowments. The money is then managed by external investment· firms; over 100 firms across the country and overseas handle parts of the Notre 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 


~·~(l•
,, / / / 
Dam~ endomnent~e the endowment was rising almost 
r(I,<: .Notre Dame Boa'rd of £: r ·. \A:rf«{t~e:S,' a:~/g with 
··· · · J. the Investment Office, ,e':ilua~r11e managers' ,:,p"ei::f~inanc_e compared .to,:appropnate market · ·· fuchmarks on a quar­terly basis. "Based on our recommendations, the board of trustees hires and fires the ·••. . ... , managers," says Scott 
,/:.·
·...•.·.'·.•.·.•·. >, i ; alpass, the university's chief invest­:. ·. •·.· ment officer. · So, why is all the university's money . invested in this endowment? The ad­vantage of this pooled approach, says Malpass, is that the collective funds can take advantage ofthe diversification and expertise provided by the major institu­tional investors who manage such large funds. Other university endowments, such as that of New York University, prefer a lower risk approach that invests in relatively safer bonds, meaning that their endowments won't gain or lose as much money as endowments that prefer equity, or stock. After the 1950s, most universities, including Not.re Dame, switched over to a more equity-based mutual fund approach, allowing them to experjence greater returns, but only by bearing greater risk. The endowment started in 1921 under university Pr~sident James Burns, and grew to $7 million by 1952, when the Rev. Father Hes burgh, C.S.C., initi­ated a strong effort to increase its size. Hesburgh believecf that universities with the largest;_ pools of funds, thus with the greatest financial resources, would become and continue to be the best institutes of higher education in the world. By 1988, the investment pool had reached $400 million. The next dozen years saw astonishing gains in the endowment's value, due mainly to the success of the Generations cam­paign (the largest fundraising effort in the history of Catholic education) and a favorable financial climate. At the end of the 2000 fiscal year, the endowment peaked at $3.1 billion. Now, after over two years of negative returns, its value has dropped to $2.6 billion. This downturn is partly due to aces­sation of the abnormally high returns experienced by stock market investors at the end of the '90s. During this 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
30 percent per year. Says Malpass, the current bear mar½et an~ slo': economy have decreased fmancial gifts to the university. Malpass ~ees the decrease as a natural fl~ctuat10n, and_ says the 
past two years performance 1s not yet indicative of a trend. "Over the last 15 years ... we're beating our benchmarks," he says. 
Of all financial gifts to the univer­sity, about half are stipulated by the donors to be fed into the endowment. 
Donors of the endowment may specify programs in which their money may be used, such as establishing a scholar­ship or only allowing the money to be used for a specific department. These restricted donations make up 90 percent of the donations to the fund, with the remaining 10 percent used to cover the cost of managing the endowment. As is common for most academic endow­ments, the largest part of the money is spent on scholarships and financial aid. A third ofNotre Dame's endowment is used to help students pay for school. "In 1990, our average scholarship package was $2,500. This year, it's close to $16,000. The cost of attending col­lege has gone up, but not that fast-it's still a huge difference," says Malpass, crediting the growth ofthe endowment with keeping costs somewhat manage­able for students. "Students pay about half the cost ofwhat it actually costs to educate them, so that has to be made up from somewhere, much of it from the endowment earnings," he says. About a quarter of the endowment spending is used for academic chairs. The ever-increasing number of en­clawed professorships has been crucial to the growing prestige of the univer­sity. "The quality of our faculty has been incredibly enhanced and enriched in the past few years because of help from the endowment," Malpass says. · He also cites some of the more recent improvements at the library, such as the electronic database and increased overall collection, as owing to the fund, which allots three percent of its yearly spending to the library. Also buoyed by the endowment budget are fellowships (seven percent) and various academic programs (11 percent). Recent efforts to increase the en­dowment have included a push for more investment diversification. The 

UBIQUITYThe enpowment's influence is seen all over campus. 
Investment Office has recently tried to avoid some the pitfalls of the large market capitalization stocks, which are stocks held by a large number of investors, such as Microsoft, GE, and Wal-Mart. Because stocks such as these are so heavily watched by the general public, it is difficult to reap high gains by investing in them. Malpass adds that many ofthe larger institutional endow­ments have similar investment policies. He says he would like to keep his eye on smaller firms in the U.S. and Asia as potential investment areas. "There are no great market anomalies right now," he says, "We just need to find the right managers." 
The biggest challenge of the Notre Dame endowment is to strike a balance between a policy that supports curre undergraduate functions (uncle ate scholarships, endowed chair still allowing a steady stream ings for the future. Although suffering from the recent mark setbacks, Malpass sa the endowment remai healthy and an i~:efr-I part of the unt~1c;sityt~ 
funct~on~n .J}j;[t¥)~{fj\}* 
v· 
r 
The Four Horsemen. George Gipp. "Jumpin' Joe" Savoldi. Joe Montana. Raghib "The Rocket" Ismail. Knute Rockne. The echoes of these college football legends haunt a virtually sacred structure -Notre Dame Stadium. Since 1930, "The House that Rockne Built" has hosted loyal and crazed Irish football fans and has become home to a family of coaches and players, all mesmerized by the stadium's aura and lore. 
Though the current stadium has been updated and expand­ed since Rockne's day, it remains a mecca for Irish faithful. The original red-brick stadium replaced Cartier Field, which held only 30,000 spectators at its retirement. 
In 1887, Notre Dame played its first football game, an 8-0 loss to the University ofMichigan; on an open field where Nieuwland Science Hall now stands. Warren A. Cartier, an 1877 graduate, purchased the land and funded the construc­tion of a multipurpose athletic area in 1899. Cartier Field, located in the present-day library quad, housed three tracks, 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


two football gridirons and a baseball diamond. 
Rockne's coaching success and the resulting increased popularity of Notre Dame football made Cartier Field ob­solete and Rockne pushed for the construction of a stadium fit for the school's powerhouse football program. Though a major proponent in the construction of the new stadium, Rockne refused to have it named after him despite the urg­ing of fans and sportswriters. 
He inspected other stadiums around the country and liked the work ofthe Osborn Engineering Company of Cleveland, the firm that designed the University ofMichigan's stadium, New York's Yankee Stadium and Chicago's Comiskey Park. With Rockne's recommendation, the university hired Os­born to design the now-legendary Notre Dame Stadium. 
Rockneinsisted that the stadium's sole purpose be football. He ensured that every seat had a great sight line and that the distance between the fans and the field was minimized. He also helped develop the parking and traffic pattern around the stadium. 
Perhaps out ofsuperstition or maybe just nostalgia, Rockne had the sod from Cartier Field moved to the field in the 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 


1,· ,,: 
r·: :··.. 
~~--··-· 

new stadium. Notre Dame had not lost a game at Cai:tier in 23 years. 
Notre Dame won its first game in the stadium against Southern Methodist University, 20-14 on Oct. 4, 1930 and then defeated The Naval Academy 26­2 in the following week's dedication game. 
Rockne coached only one season in the stadium before his sudden death in a. 1931 plane crash. But the "house" that he built lived on to serve the Irish faithful for more.than 60 years. 
By the early 1990s, Notre Dame Sta­dium had .begun to age:· Every home game sold o~t and demand for tickets greatly exceeded the supply. Instead of tearing down a structure so steeped in traditi~n, the_---9,niversity decided to expand the existing building. The Ellerbe Becket_ architectural firm of Kansas· City designed an outer brick wall to support a new upper deck. The addition increased seating capacity from 59,075 to 80,795 and preserved the original stadium. 
At a cost of $53 million financed largely by fixed-rate bonds, the stadium addition took two years· to complete. Notre Dame's Office of Information Technology aimed a camera at the stadium so Irish fans could watch its 
progress over the Internet. ·,":game day is "like cleaning' . _The Irish celebrated the reopening of . a house, only ten times 
the stadium on Sept. 6, 1997, with a 17--bigger," Erazo says'. The 
14 victory over Georgia Tech. The re-stadium crew, which Erazo 
modeled stadium boasted new goalposts heads, paints the field two __ •,.;-::.l'"__ ,L 
and scoreboards, a four-story press to three days before each 
box, giant light fixtures, entry gates home game and mows 
designed fike the gridiron and con-it every other day year­
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
courses with panoramic views of cam­pus. 
What makes the stadium unique is the seamless blend of new and old. The players still hit the famous "Play Like a ChampionTo­day" sign for good luck, the gold-clad ush­ers still secure the stands, the playing 

field remains natural grass and the end zones' stripes angled toward the student section exist today. No adver­tising or private luxury boxes cheapen the atmosphere. Even the restrooms in the locker rooms have been preserved. "Undoubtedly, some of the same stalls Knute Rockne sat in exist today," Cappy Gagnon '66, coordinator of stadium personnel, says. 
Keeping Rockne's memory alive, Notre Dame Stadium is still a single­purpose facility, used only for six home games each fall. 
"The thing that makes the stadium great is that it's a basic stadium, no frills, no advertising, no writing on the field, no track around the field," Ga­gnon says. "[The university] preserved the core ofthe old stadium. There's not a bad seat in the place." 
Dan Brazo, athletic facilities manager, says it has been university policy to keep the stadium "clean." "We've stuck with the traditional look. You'd be amazed at the number of schools that call, wanting to know how we do that. They'd like to have that same look," he says. 
Preparing the field for round. Head football coach Tyrone Willingham likes the grass cut short, Erazo says, so the field crew mows it tq I 3/8 in. high. The turf, a Kentucky blhegrass blend, lasts for eight to 10 years. The stadium crew replaced it just last winter, Erazo says. 

Assistant Athletic Facilities Manager Robert Thomas and his crew of 14 mow the field, line it, perform the final touch-up and final cleanup on game days, mend the bleachers, take care of the team benches, help NBC associates, and repair equipment. 
While the stadium's redwood bleach­ers do not deteriorate as fast as other wood, they do break occasionally. Ush­ers note broken benches in their sec­tions and report them to the stadium crew for fixing. The bleachers in the student section suffer the most wear, says Thomas. 
No ND football game would be com­plete without the ushers. Gagnon heads the group of 857 men and women, 550 of which are volunteers. Many of the ushers live in other parts of the coun­try and travel to Notre Dame for each home game. 
On game days, Gagnon arrives at the stadium at 5:00 a.m. to unlock the gates, allowing the bookstore staff, the stadium crew, Food Services, the media, studen_t managers, trainers, scoreboard operators, 12 plumbers and two elevator repair people to enter. In addition to over 80,000 fans who can enter at noon, Gagnon estimates that about 4,000 workers are in the stadium during the game. 
While the ushers' main duties consist of handling access control, checking 
AFTER In 1997, Notre Dame Stadium opened with an additional upper deck that raised the total seating capacity to 80,795 seats. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 



tickets at the gates, directing fans to their seats, assisting the disabled and working the field, tunnel, press box and locker rooms, Gagnon says that their most important role of the ushers is to be ambassadors for Notre Dame. 
Fulfilling this role must be the ush­ers' first priority, superceding their de­sire to be Notre Dame football fans, he says. They must act impartially -only the ones in the student section are al­lowed to cheer, wear a white shirt and tie, arrive early, stay late, stand for the games and sometimes take abuse from rowdy fans, he says. 
One of the least appealing duties of a stadium usher is dealing with intoxicated fans. A holding cell, known as the stadium jail or the "drunk tank," provides a place for fans who have had too much to drink and have no one to escort them home. 
Ushers also handle stadium security, which, Gagnon says, has always been a large problem. Before 9/11 ushers checked for alcohol; now they check for anything that looks suspicious. Brazo says secu­rity has tightened further since 9/11, citing the re­keying of entry points and the cutback in the number of keys issued. In addition to the ushers, state, county and city police patrol the stadium on game days to ensure a safe 
the upkeep ofthe lines on the football field.
environment for all. 
The stadium has changed throughout its rich history, but the legends of glory days past still live in the minds of those who remember them. Vic Couch '89, became an usher at Cartier Field in 1926 and continued to serve Notre Dame in this capac­ity for 74 years. Knute Rockne even approached him when Couch was a 12-year-old Boy Scout attending mass in the crypt of Sacred Heart Basilica. "[Rockne] was real good with children," Couch says. "I remember he was a great guy. I used to go to his practices. He did most [ ofthe coaching] himself-he only had three assistants." 
Aside from meeting the man who made Notre Dame a household name, Couch experienced another legendary 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
moment in ND football history -he saw the Four Horsemen pose for their famous photograph in 1924. 
For Thomas, an employee of 22 years, the stadium recalls memories of more recent "encounters" with football legends. He spea~s of one night when he closed the stadium alone. He turned off the lights, locked up and got in his truck only to find that the lights had come back on. Assuming he locked 
· especially c_oming through 

someone inside, he went back. Find­
. ing no one, he turned off the lights and left again only to watch as the lights came back on and then turned off. The next day, after telling his boss about the incident, his boss laughed and said, "'Maybe it was Lou [Holtz]. He wasn't done with his speech, or Rockne wasn't done with his speech. When he got done, he shut the lights off himself.'" Another time, Thomas and a crew member were closing the stadium-and what Thomas thought was a black bag flew by them. They looked everywhere, but couldn't find it. "There could be a spirit in [the stadium]. I don't know," Thomas says. "They tell me [Rockne's spirit haunts] the one locker room." 
During his time at Notre Dame, 
Thomas traveled with the football team 
and grew close to players like Rocket 
Ismail, Jerome Bettis, Tony Rice and Stone Breaker. "I love working at 
Notre Dame.The people here are like 
a family," Thomas says. "I don't know 
about other places, but Notre Dame is 
a speciaf place for me because I've been here so long and you meet really good people. I love it here." 
During the filming of 
Rudy, the director. asked 
Thomas if he would like to be in the movie. Thomas shot scenes for the film, but the director later chose an 
actor to play Thomas' part. 
Though he was disappoint­
ed, Thomas enjoyed being 
,. part of the movie's produc­tion. "The guy that played 
Rudy [Sean Astin] took my 
golf cart and drove around and I hacl to go find it," says Thomas. "He was a 
character.'' The stadium's tradition 
leaves many in awe, even 
those who are most familiar 
with the place. "I get here at 
about 5:00 or-6:00 a.m. on 
. game day and no one else is here yet. That gives me 
goose bumps," Brazo says. 
Thomas. experiences a similar feeling: "When the band march.es in, it sends chills down your· body, 
that tunnel.'; 

Even Lou Holtz said he felt it when his gold-helmeted players gathered under the goalpost before each game. 
The walls of the stadium teem with 
echoes ofthe past. Any spectator can't 
help feeling a part ofthe stadium's heri­tage as the Irish Guard raise the flag, the band plays "Hike Notre Dame," the Leprechaun does push-ups and the 
students link arms and sway during the 
Alma Mater. 
As a true lifelong fan, perhaps Couch says it best: "I just love [Notre Dame football]. When you get attached to a 
team like Notre Dame.at that age a11d 
you see them win, it hurts when they don't. I love Notre Dame.'' -With reporting by Jimmy Atkinson 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

Who likes Scholastic? 

We're looking for photographers. Contact 
This guy. A A 
1:1s at 1-7569 or scholast@nd.edu (Most subjects won't be this bizarre.) 
A 



The Secret of Her Success 
A Notre Dame junior is breaking into the business world 


LAURENWILCOX president. She paid off the club's previous vicepresidentoftheBeijingComprehensive 
debt, increased membership and developed Investment Company. Most Notre Dame students occupy new projects. Since Qian was the first U.S. citizen to in­their summers with trips to the "This school isn't very entrepreneurial," tern at a Chinese-government-owned firm, beach, service projects or jobs.Ju-Qian says. ''Alot of students don't even know herinternshipworkwasfeaturedin the China 
nior Willa Qian, however, has spent hers what the word entrepreneur means, but if Dai!J newspaper, the number-one English working in Beijing, interning at a New yougivethemanopportunity,manyareen-mediasourceinChina. York advertising agency and developing trepreneurial-minded."Herbeliefthatother While working at her internship in her business idea: the Wireless Waiter. studentsshouldexperiencetheexcitementof Beijing, Qian also landed another intern-
Over the past two years, Qian has ship opportunity as a sales representative also won theMcCloskey Business Plan with the Australian compaJJ.y SoftTouch Competition, served as co-presidentof Information Technology Pty. Ltd. She theEntrepreneurOubandfoundedthe assisted SoftTouch in writing marketing Student Business Incubator Club. and promotion plans in China. 
Although she entered Notre Dame Last summer, Qian decided to stay as a science major, Qian frequently at-in the U.S. after becoming a Kauffman tendedlectures byprominentCEOs at Entrepreneurial Intern. Kauffman is a the Mendoza College ofBusiness. One . national program for. entrepreneurship day she noticed a poster in Mendoza that endows schools with money to pay that announced the McCloskey Busi-....--... for one half of the recipient's summer ness Plan Competition. All she had to internship salary. ­do was create an innovative business As part of this program, Qian discov­idea, write a business plan and pitch it ,.;,,..~,,-,, ered Outta-Sites Advertising Agency in to entrepreneurs. Manhattan, NY, a small, up-and-com-. 
Itwasn'tuntilshortlybeforethecom-ing advertising company. There she petition deadline that Qian and junior . performed marketing research, created FranLarkin created the concept ofthe t·• PowerPoint presentation~ and worked on Wireless Waiter, a device that runs .'.l I -a marketing team. restaurant electronically. When cus--Her experience in New York opened tamers enter a restaurant, they choose her eyes to the real world of business. "I their table on a computer screen that didn't know what the wqrd 'stress' meant displays the establishment's layout. A before [I went to New Yorkl. At Notre host seats the customers and then the Dame people are always so supportive and Wireless Waiter greets them when they ,,;: . cooperative," Qian says. ·. sit down at the table. Customers order ..la,-·. Qian is now in the process of start-from the electronicmenu thatdescribes _ :.IL ing the Wireless Waiter in South Bend. and pictures every item on the menu, ONTHE BALL Qian plans to introduce her"WirelessWaiter" When she presented the idea to the Bei­
th h di . l service to South Bend. ·· In C th fi 1 d
or eymayc ooseatra tlona server. · Jmg vestment ompany, e rm ave The electronic menu provides quick service entrepreneurship inspired Qian to found the ·it. But in the U.S. she is still negotiating the and allows customers to pay at the table with Student Business Incubator Club. complexmanufacturing process required for a credit card. Qian formed the club around Professor the Wireless Waiter. 
After composing their business plan, de-Dave Hayes' Introduction to Entrepreneur-In the future, Qian plans to attend law veloping the logistics and locating funding, ship class projectinwhich students start with school before perhaps starting her own Qian and Larkin presented the Wireless a$20budgetandattempttomakea lOOper-business or raising a family. She is uncer­Waiter before a group of entrepreneurs at cent profit on an original business idea. tain about her career plans and recognizes the McCloskey Competition. As freshmen, As self-motivated as Qian is, she readily the significant time and energy involved in theywere finalists for the Best Undergradu-. ackno:wledges the importance ofthe support entrepreneurial work. Still, she loves the in­ate Business Plan and received a $1,000 cash · she.has received. When searching for a sum-novation tha~ entrepreneurship allows. prize. mer internship inChina after her freshman · . Qian's advice to otherstlidents: .''Always be · 
Qian's winnings motivated her to further year, Jim Falkiner, the Entrepreneur Club healthy, and if you haven't found what.you · pursue her entrepreneurial interests. Dur-advisor, and Carolyn Woo, dean of the like to do, thenkeepsearchingforwhatyou ing her sophomore year, Qian revitalized College of Business, helped her connect enjoy doing. Ifyou like something, go get it the Entrepreneur Club as the club's co-with a Notre Dame MBA alumnus who is and don't doubtyoursel£". . 
20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 


Cheer up, Gipplings. As long as you have this column to brighten your fortnights, who cares if our team scores about as often as the priests on camp -hmm, wait, that joke is no longer accurate. Never thought Gipp would see the-day. In any case, the Gipp has compiled a list of the top five things to pass the time when, every Saturday, your players suck more than LeMans. (Actu­ally, you oversensitive perverts, the Gipp was simply referring to the widely-known fact that LeMans gals just aren't cool.) 5.) Spend the games trying to collect as many old-man usher caps as you can (hey, if they're not wearing 
green, you're just help­ing out the team ...) 
4.) After the game, blame your school's loss solely on your opponent's lack of class. Supplement the complaint with campus newspaper editorials that attack a gi:oup of people who will never read your words. 
3.) Remember, se­niors, marshmallow'; 

don't stain clothing. Eggs do. (P.S. They wear blue jackets -you can't miss 'em.) 
2.) Skip the game, and throw one back for every point you see the opponents score on yo:ur T.V. 
1.) Write a seemingly bitter, pessimis­tic, anonymous bi-weekly column that allows you to take unlimited cheap shots at whatever suits your fancy. 
So ... back to business: 
Simply Legendary 
,, 

Recently, the Gipp has received a mouthful of. tips concerning activities at the university's new restaurant/pub/ discotheque/~esper_ate~attempt-to­keep-kids-on-campus. The majority of these tales involve different stories of strangers swip-swapping. So, apparently, the new club has replaced our old Yacht Yard friend as South Bend's premiere locale for fit-shaced horny 18-year-olds who are willing to sacrifice 15 minutes of sloppy pleasure for 15 awkward DeBar­tolo sightings. The Gipper doesn't want to delve into the mundane details of these hook-ups, so sorry to all the characters of those drunken dramas -Gipp ain't gonna holla 'atcha this week. 
We'll just close it with this: Thanks (seriously) to the university for allowing a trendy pizza shop to be replaced as the 
top after-party hangout 
on campus. And students, let's make the stories a-bit more interesting; after all, a group of under­age students raiding and overtaking the bar by physical force would be much funnier than kiss­ing someone you've never met and hopefully won't ever see again. 
That's Why Dorms 
Have Singles 

Our next tale falls in the age-old category of "roommate revenge." Our tipsters report that, "towards the end of an extremely busy week, our room­mate decided to 'get her game face on' a little early." Based on the context you're about to read, the Gipp is assuming this means she was helping a partner stretch his lower back. 
The partier's roommates were starting to get a little fed up with their suitemate, being that this behavior started to occur on many weekday nights, even when the roommates had important exams the fol­lowing morning. So, quotes our source, "after being locked out of the room one too many times, we decided to exact a little revenge ... " Ahh, God bless the sinister ellipses. 
The begrudged girls stole what they call the rude roommate's "favorite thing" and "left-hand man." But, to the disap­pointment ofthe Gipp's youthful curios­ity, this was simply a bottle ofliquor. The victim ofthe upcoming prank was already a little tipsy before dark on the night of the crime, so she had no idea (and still had no idea until ... right now) that her roommates took turns shooting their spit into the bottle. A half-digested brownie also made its way into the bottle, only later to be strained out by a coffee filter to hide any visible evidence. The part of the story that really hits home, at least for the Gipp, is that stale water from the dish of a pet frog (supposedly, and ap­propriately, named "Gipper") was mixed into the concoction as well. How does the story end? Well, you shouldn't have to ask, because Gipp wouldn't publish it unless our clueless pal went vertical on it the following afternoon. Sh~ did. 
P is for Paranoid 

To all you Risk-Management types: Seriously, can a marshmallow really lacerate someone's face? The Gipper• supposes that's why society only allows them to be handled by professionals, such as 8-year-old Boy Scouts sitting around a campfire. Sure, some larger males may have a cannon for an arm, but the Gipp's opinion is that if something white and gooey is going to be shot in your face, it might as well be those little puffballs. Hmm, maybe we should improve upon that egg-throwing idea ... 
Well, not an overly busy week for Mr. Gipp, but it will do for now. Last year at this time, the Gipp remembers reading something about stolen pizza cars, so let's return to those glory days, ladies and gents. Thanks for reading--it's your nosy eyes that keep the Gipp in business. . 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 21 

I.J·1 m b O's Jabber W~y the pr~season_ p~lls are a house of cards. 
Could someone please tell me why Oregon is ranked behind Michi­ganin this week's ESPN/USATo­day Coaches' Poll? The Ducks (4-0) beat the Wolverines (3-1) 31-27 Saturday in Eugene, Oregon. Despite this impressive win, 63 head coaches from Division I-A schools from around the country ranked the Ducks 15th this week, five spots be­hind the 10th-ranked Wolverines. Another Coaches' Poll anomaly is Arkan­sas, who traveled to Austin two weeks ago and beat Texas 38-28. Despite this loss at home, the coaches still have the Longhorns (2-1) ranked ahead of the Razorbacks (3-0), 13th and 14th respectively. Inrelated news, the 65-member Associated Press Top 2 5 Poll have ranked both Kansas State (4-1), who lost to Marshall Saturday, and Pittsburgh (2-1), who lost.to Toledo Saturday, ahead of undefeated Northern Illinois (3-0), who has recorded wins against Maryland and Alabama. The polls, although designed to be an impartial system of ranking college football teams, in reality, are flawed. Case in point, as mentioned above, the coaches• have ranked Michigan ahead ofOregon byfive spots for this week. This is despite the factthatOregon beat Michigan, despite the fact that Oregon is undefeated and Michigan's onlywins have come against Central Michigan, Houston anci Notre Dame, all at home. And this isa recurring problem. Ifyou want to have a good ranking in the polls, pay close attention to these two simple pointers, which are reasons why the preseason polls are always inaccurate. 
by Jnnmy Atkinson-Jatkinsl@nd.edu 
First,haveabigname.TeamslikeMichigan, Texas, Florida State, Notre Dame, etc. are of­tenoverratedandover-hypedatthebeginning of the season because voters historically are used to seeing these names near the top of the polls. A big name may guarantee a good recruiting class, favorable TV contracts, and receiving poll votes, but it does not guarantee a win on any given Saturday. 
A second way to secure a favorable poll ranking is to finish the previous season on a high note and return a lot ofstarters. A team 
If Northern Illinois were wearing those maize and blue helmets instead, there is no doubt in my mind that they would be listed among the top five teams in the country right now. 
thatcandothisisusuallyrankedhighlyinthe upcoming year's preseason polls that are re­leased weeks before the season even begins. 
The preseason polls may not seem to. mean much, but they can end up shaping how teams .are assessed for the remainder of the season. Often, unreasonable preseason expectations, set by analysts as early as July, nevertheless end up serving as a guide for teams' · strengths for the remainder of the season. In fact, there really is no scientific way to gauge the strength ofany team until they have played several games. 
My solution is to eliminate the preseason polls.. It is unfair to underrated teams with small names like NIU, whowillalwayshavea tough time climbing up the poll ladder in or­der to receive a better BCS ranking. In fact, I would prefer to eliminate the polls altogether, atleastuntil mid-October or early November whenweareactuallyabletogauge,withsome, albeit not precise, accuracy the strength ofa team, based on game performance to date. The preseason polls are clearly faulty, and toprovethispointoneonlyneedstolookto Auburn, who was ranked in just about every college football analyst's and publication's Top Ten before .the season began. Sp01ting News even picked them to win the national 
~ 

championship. Two weeks later, they found 
I 

themselves outscored 40-3 with 
f 
!

a 0-2 record. 
I 

These preseason rankings fil! clearly are guided by big mimes and the fallacy that the previous season's success will translate into success the following year. Auburn shows us that this is a misleading no­tion that often results in false rankings. And itis a problem because itbecomes so difficult for a fringe team with a name like Northern Illinois or Toledo to move up in the polls. Pollsters need to assess teams' performances in games, rather than shift teams up and down week after week from the original preseason polls.IfNorthernillinoiswerewearingthose maize and blue helmets instead, there is no doubt in my mi.rid that they would be listed among the top five teams in the country right now. But with a name like NIU and no preseason hype, itis no wonder why they are getting such little respect from pollsters. D 

Although the football team is only 1­
2 after three games, Notre Dame fall 
sports on the whole are outperforming ·expectations. The five other fall sports 
teams all are ranked in the Top 20 in their :respective polls. 
:-football (1-2):Wolverines and Spartans · have been major speed bumps for the 
Irish football team.The Irish ground attack was held.to a meager average of 74.5 yards per game in the past two weeks. They look to avenge this poor play in West Lafayett.e this Saturday as they take on Purdue (2-1 ). 
Women's Soccer (7-0-1 ): Freshman defender Christie Shaner was named Big 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

~ 
'  At 6-6, 30 I lbs., fifth-year senior tackle  
.,.  Jim Molinaro helps anchor the young Irish  
offensive line. Originally a defensive lineman  
~  until his junior year, he came into this season  
as one of only three offensive linemen with  

V. any experience. His get-down-to-business 
J~·.' attitude ....has established. him as a team le-·a-der. 
' . He was named one of four game captains 
Jagainst Washington State and was asked by · il Head Coach Tyrone Willingham to speak at •I!.. the Michigan State pep rally. 
;a At the pep rally last Satw-day, you challenged the coaching staffto run the bail _behind you in a fourth-down situation. It was a great honor. I just wanted to show · [my coaches and teammates] that I am for real and we're going to get it done, no 
matter what happens. It's time for the seniors to step up and take control of this team. 
Are you called to be a leader on this team.? Oh yeah, definitely. I'm a senior and Sean Milligan is a senior and Dan [Stevenson] played a lot last year and they're looking for him to be a leader, too. We all need to step up and help the guys who haven't played as much. 
Is the offense in trouble? There's a sense ofurgency, but we've been doing good things every game and we haven't be.en doing good things every game. We are trying to stop the little mistakes from happening. 
How c::anthe offense become more productive? We just need to keep ~orking and ' : stickwi~1 it in practice, just up our consistency level. The main qiing with this offense is consisi:~ncy. We need to stop shooting ourselves mthe foot. 
What is itgoingt6 be like-heading into WestLafayette-thisSa~y? It's the · same as it is evE:ry week It's the biggest game of the week for us. Every game we play is • the biggest game ofthe ":-eek for us. 
What do you do in die off-seas~n? Last summer Gary Godsey, Chris Yura,Julius Jones and I went white-water rafting in Morgantown, West Virginia. Itwas a blast. 
Are you a video gamer? Godsey and I always playMadden. Hes way better than me. 
One word to describe you? Determined. 
Our Calls Football 
OPPONENT: PURDUE WHERE:WEST LAFAYETTE, IND. WHEN: SATURDAY, 2:30 P.M. EST 
Call me optimistic, but I honestly do 
think that our offense has potential to
>score first-half touchdowns. QB B.Q: first collegiate start gives the Irish the 
spark they need to ignite the fire and the defense plays strong as usual to propel Notre Dame to a 20-13 win over Purdue. 
JIMMYATKINSON SPORTS EDITOR 

The Irish take 1-65 down to West 
) Lafayette this weekend and show the country that Coach Willingham's offense can indeed put points on the board. After putting up a combined 16 points in the past two games the Irish come out firing and stomp the Boilermakers 37-17. MIKEISELIN ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
Key to the Game: 
> 
Will a seemingly reluctant Brady Quinn step in and breathe new life ·into an 
ineffective offense or can Carlyle Holiday 
bounce back and regain his position as 
an offensive leader? Or will this game 
only further fuel an ongoing quarterback 
controversy? 
Volleyball (8-2): Sophomore sensation Lauren Brewster posted a double-double last Wednesday in Notre Dame's victory over I 0th-ranked Purdue (7-3) with 13 blocks and 13 kills.The Irish are currently ranked 17th in the country and will look to continue their strong play Friday night againstVillanova (3-9). 
East Rookie of the Week for her play at the Santa Clara University Adidas Classic.The Irish beat I 0-ranked Santa Clara (4-2-4) 2-1 and tied I 6th-ranked Stanford (3-3-1 as ofTuesday) 0-0.The women's soccer team is ranked second in the nation and is one of IO teams that are currently undefeated. 
Men's Soccer (4-1-2): Junior defender Kevin Goldthwaite was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week last week, notching the game-winning goal against I 9th-ranked Indiana in double overtime.The Irish beat Big East opponent WestVirginia (4-3-0) to move to 1-1 in Big East play. The next opponent for the Irish is Bradley University (4-4-0) this Thursday night at 7:00 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

-•-•-•-•-•-•~-•-•w•••-•-••---•---~-•••• • -•-•-----~--­
•---•••••--•---••-•-----­
Changing Roles 
In three years, Jared Clark has switched from quarterback to one of the team's top 
receivers 
Clark came to Notre Dame in 2000 and, like so many other fresh­men, did not see any action his first year. Not to take anything away from his talents, but at the time he was playing behind Matt LoVecchio, Gary Godsey and Arnaz Battle, three very talented quar­terbacks. Ironically, of the three, only. LoVecchio is still 

UNSTOPPABLE Clark resists a tackle in this month's game against a quarterback, and 
Washington State. 
MIKEISELIN 
In the spring of2000, the University ofNotre Dame signed one ofthe Chi­cago Sun-Times top-100 prospects for the recruiting year, and one ofonly nine quarterbacks to make that list, Jared Clark. Clark accounted for 2,113 yards and 27 touchdowns in his senior year of high school, including passing statistics of 1,372 yards and 17 touchdowns. Three and a half years later, Clark's career stat line as a quarterback at the University ofNotre Dame reads as fol­lows: one incomplete pass and 5 rush­ing yards. How did 2,113 yards and 27 touchdowns turn into 5 yards and 0 touchdowns for Clark? The answer: the presence ofnumerous talented quarter­backs that limited his playing time_and eventually led to a position change from quarterback to tight end. he is now at Indi­
ana. Clark also saw· sophomore quarterback Chris Olsen transfer from Notre Dame earlier this season. 
The spring before Clark's sophomore year, he was involved in a battle for the starting spot behind center with Carlyle Holiday and LoVecchio. Under Head Coach Bob Davie, who ran a conserva­tive offense, Holiday's legs won him the starting spot and LoVecchio was named his backup, once again leaving Clark with little playing time. It was during the 2001 season that Clark saw his only two snaps as a Notre Dame quarterback, resulting in one incompletion and one five-yard run. 
The 2002 season brought change all over the program as Davie was fired and replaced first by George O'Leary and then by Tyrone Willingham. But it is incorrect to assume that it was the new Willingham coaching staff that urged Clark to make the switch to tight end. 

"To be honest with you, I felt like _I wasn't doing very well at quarterback. I felt like the other two guys were doing better than me and I went up and asked [graduate assistant coachJohn] DeFilip­po ifthere was any interest in me at any other position. He said 'yeah,' and I had a meeting with Offensive Coordinator Bill Diedrick the next day. He told me he would like me to move to tight end," Clark says. · 
Ever since that meeting, Clark has devoted himself to becoming the best tight end that he can.be a~d hasn't taken· another snap as an Irish quarterback. He possesses several qualities·that have en­abled him to make the switch relatively smoothly. "He's athletic, he's got good size, and he's built himself up over the off-season, especially the last two years where he's made the·change. He's a lot more physical than he probably would be ifhe were still at quarterback," Died-rick says. .· 
The transition from quarterback to tight end is hy no means an easy one. Clark, however, was_ in the fortuitous position ofhaving someone to go to for advice and help. Only one year prior to Clark's transition, Godsey made the · same move from quarterback to tight end. 
"Seeing Gary change from quarter­back to tight end and being a very effec­tive blocker gave me hope and showed me that it can happen if I just work at it," Clark says. "Garyis very knowledge­able aboutthe offense. He's always been there if I had any questions and is very helpful," he says. 
I J.: >::·\_-:·:::·: ::~).'~•/::: ::· : \:_/c.:::/::-..~:--~:·_;~~~~'-'-"'----'---"-~--'-­1_t:==-:"c···. "-<'· ~­24 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

.. ··-·~-·--~. ~·---~--. ·­
' 



GEN. CLARK IS IN THE RACE Jared Clark makes a big play against Washington State. Clark became the starting tight-end after fifth-year senior Gary Godsey was 
injured before the 2003 season. 
In his first season at tight end, Clark caught seven balls for 104 yards and ap­peared in all 13 games. He built on that experience and succ_ess and returned ready to work in spring and summer practices. Since making the switch, Clark has hit the weight room harder than ever and put on an additional 25 pounds. That extra weight can prove critical when he is lined up against an opposing tackle who weighs 260 or 270 pounds. 
This season, Clark expected to once again s·ee a decent amount of action be­hind the fifth-year senior Godsey. But less than a week before the 2003 cam­paign was to kick off, Godsey tore his ACL and was forced to undergo season ­ending surgery. Suddenly, Clark became the starting tight end of a team he had quarterbacked just two seasons earlier. 
Thus far Clark has tak~n advantage of this opportunity. He had multiple recep­tions in each ofthe first two games, and prior to last week's game against Michi­gan State, Clark led all Irish receivers in yards with six catches for 67 yards. 

Diedrick has been impressed with Clark's contribution to the team this season: "Jared has been the one that has had the most opportunities, and he has stepped up and done a good job." 
While Clark has made a number of catches for decent yardage this season, the tight end has more responsibilities than just running patterns and catch­ing passes. 
"When I came in, [blocking] was all new to me," he says. "I have played football for a long time and never had to get in a three-point stance and block somebody, so that was the biggest hur­dle to overcome. Blocking is probably my biggest weakness, just run blocking trying to move around other guys who are a lot bigger than me. But I'm getting better at it," Clark says. 
Clark has made some big plays for Notre Dame since moving to the tight end position, his most memorable be­ing a 37-yard reception against Florida State last season. "I had a lot of family there and I grew up not liking Florida State too much, so it was nice," Clark says. 
Clark's original goal in making the move was to become a more produc­tive member of Notre Dame's football team, something he has definitely ac­complished. He doesn't even attempt to compare the two positions: "To be honest with you, I'm loving tight end right now. I think I've helped out the team the last year and a halfmore than I ever did the two years I played quar­terback." D 
-


25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 25 
Riinnin1,i---the ShOw ·· 
Junior Lauren King and sop~more Molly Huddle look to lead their team to a successful season 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
If practice m .. akes pe_rfec~, imp1;ov.ement is the co.rners.tone to success. The. F1ghtmg Irish women's cross country ·team has proven this fact over the past three years'. In 2001, Notre ;Dame finished 19thin the NCAA champion­ship_. This dfrtertp.ined Irish squad· returned in 2002 to win the Big East, as well as the Great.Lakes Region, and also to take third in the NCAA Championship. With their top tw9 runners,fe,tur:ning from last year, the women's cross 
. • ·.,·r~· .· .. ~ , , . . ·.. ­
country team looks to improve on their strong third-place ...: pre-season ranking in the NCAA. · 
Understanding that cross country is both an i~dividual · · and team sport, 14-year head coach Tini Connelly outlined .·· '.f the mission ofthis season as having two goals: "One is that }t: each of our athletes improves," Cop.nelly says, "and the · ~. second goal is that we improve as a team: In terms ofwhere.. ·. ·.· ;f' that puts us as far as Big East and Nai:iorials, we think that.·. •· :;:;; we can be one of the best teams in the cou:qtry." . . .,.,.:Hi. 
Among the seven v.arsity runners, two have separated ·J:~f/ 
. . . . . -·. . . . ' _. . :•. .. .:::\iii;t, 
,; ·,;;,'.!/'.'f"-.: 


themselves from the rest of the pack. 
Just last season, sophomore Molly 
Huddle and junior Lauren King made 
their presence known in the NCAA, 
taking sixth and 19th, respectively, 
in the national championship. Both 
Huddle and King have achieved great 
success with the Notre Dame cross­
country program. How they each ar­
rived there, however, are two different 
stories. 
Along-time runner, King, a 21-year­
old Toronto native, started participat­
ing in cross-country races before high 
school. "Running just felt natural to 
me," King says. King also excelled 
at many ·other sports in high school, 
however, including ·track and field, 
swimming, and Nordic skiing. Among 
her pre-college accolades, she earned 
four consecutive provincial high school 
championships in the 800-meter run, 
won the Junior National Champion­
ship r'i'tle in the 1500-meter run, and 
placed third in the National Junior 
Cross-Country Championship. 
As her senior year in high school 
came upon her, King had to decide on 
the college at which to continue her 
cross-country career. As time passed, 
she started to lean towards attending 
Notre Dame, eventually concluding: 
"It's the best place on earth!" King 
says. "It's for the combination [of] the 
athletics and the·academics, but there 
is also something magical about this 
place." It was only a matter of time 
before King enrolled as a freshman in 
the Class of 2005 at the University of 
Notre Dame. 
Due to a late track and field season . in Canada, King did not appear in the 
first four cross country races of her 
freshman year. She arrived on the 
collegiate season, however, in time to 
win the very competitive Notre Dame 
Invitational and help the Irish win the 
invitational title. King continued to 
explode onto the cross-country scene, 
as she took 15th in the Pre-National 
Meet, second in the Great Lakes Re­
gional, and 27th in the 2001 NCAA 
Championship. This instant success 
earned her All-American status for 
her freshman year. 
Just as King's collegiate cr9ss-coun­
2S SEPTEMBER 2003 
try career was beginning in 2001, Huddle was beginning her high school cross-country career in Elmira, New York. Even though she had been run­ning track .and field since junior high, Huddle's high school did not offer a competitive cross-country program. Therefore, Huddle's senior year was her first running competitively for her high school. In this one year, she set 12 course records and finished 

SOPHOMORE SENSATION After a stellar freshman year, Molly Huddle hopes to help lead ND back to the NCAA championships. 
fourth in. the 2001 FootLocker Na­tional High School Cross-Country Championship. 
Later that year, Huddle also had to decide which college she was going to attend. Huddle favored Notre Dame because of its history, and because of her own familiarities. "My dad went here, and my uncle went here," Huddle said, "so I had a legacy, and I knew what [Notre Dame] was about while I was growing up." 
By the 2002 season, the Irish had put together a one-two co~bination that was as strong as the best teams in the country. Led by Huddle and King, Notre Dame's cross-country program exceeded expectations as its potential continued to grow. Not only did Huddle and King succeed on an individual level, they began to succeed as a team. 
"I think we work really well to­gethir," Huddle says. "We know our racing styles, and if one ofus is having a bad day, we can tell ifwe are trailing off. We are really good at staying close together, which is the goal in cross­country. We try to stay a team as much as possible." 

In the 2002 Big East Champion­ship, King and Huddle swept first and second places, respectively, winning the conference. The success did not stop there as they went on to win the Great Lakes Regional. Then Huddle and King swapped places as they took sixth and 19th, respectively, in the NCAA Championship while the team, previously ranked 19th, finished third overall. 
As the Irish headed into the 2003 season, their third-place ranking re­mained in tact. ~hey did not, however, rest on the ranking. 
"What we talked about the first day of practice was that we're going to be ranked real high because ofreputation, and that doesn't mean anything," Con­nelly says. "We're more worried about who we are than who people think we are." Without being overzealous, both Huddle and King set the reasonable goal for the Iris4_to finish in the top three in the country, as well as to earn individual All-American status. 
While Huddle and King have dif­ferent backgrounds, some very no­table parallels can be drawn between the two. They both want to see how far their running careers can take them. King is giving herself every possibil­ity to achieve something great in col­legiate cross-country, and Huddle is considering World Cross-Country and possibly the Olympics. Not banking on just running, Huddle and King are both biology and pre-professional ma­jors and are both considering applying to medical schools. The most evident similarity between the two runners is definitely their shared work ethic. 
Huddle and King both attribute their success to the hard work that they put in day after day. Their coach agrees, saying, "theyworklike crazy. Theyrace as a team. That's really important ifwe are going to be really successful: that they race as a team." · . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 


The Boat is Back 

Joe Muto sees a red sky at night ... and Busch Light 
Istill remember my first time. I was 18 years old. My palms were sweaty. I thought I was going to hyperventilate. Finally, the moment came, and I whipped it out. And when it was all over, I heard sweet music -the strains of Bon J ovi's "Livin' on a Prayer." I'm speaking, of course, of my first entrance into The Boat Club, that venerable old South Bend institution. I've given Boat short'Shrift in my previous writings, mostly because advertising· my use of a fake ID hardly seemed cogent at the time .. But no more! After March 3 oflastyear, my glorious ascent to manhood was complete, and I'm now able to speak ofmy Boat Club experi­ences in a consequence-free environment, ably dodging the long, increasingly irrational arm ofResLife. Plus, they've got their hands too full prosecuting marshmallow-tossers to worry about little ol' me and my youth­Heartland's college night as poseurs, people who had never gone out to bars before they turned legal. All the true die-hards, he argued, went to Boat Club. 
I took Hog's lessons to heart, and after he graduated, I signed the papers to rent an off-campus house a scant two blocks from the sacred Club of Boats. Which is why last year's January De­bade, i.e. the Boat Club raid, chilled me to the bone. "What if," lasked myself; ·'\People stop going to Boat Club?" I had trouble imagining such a prospect, but lo, for the rest ofspring semester, Boat Club was a ghost town. . 
But last Thursday night, September 18, 2003, something special happened: Boat Club came back. 
Like a mullet-sporting Phoenix, Boat Club arose from its own 
ashes. It started with one or two seniors, 
nostalgic for their freshman year, and bored 
ful indiscretions. c-:'' -:>,.,_.:-.... , ·: _ stiffwith Heartland. It snowballed, and by My first visit to Boat Club came near · t}~;, .. :? ll thetimeienteredthebarthatcooiThursday 
~!1!~~~~E ttt" ,,,,tf{ti~~tfiI~:;fl; =~== 
enough. Duringthefirstmonthsofmy ,.1f: '.;j,ft.!i:\~; · ;.-d ···.... ·.·.·· ·, · outofkegbeerby1:30a.m. Bythetimelast 
t:1.·.~::: ·i:·',.. n:1·~;.,,u -~-~--~­
freshman year, I had heard this rowdy ir'.'-,{: ,}/ , , . _I/ call rolled around, we had bought every last group of upperclassmen coming back .•,r,r, · •.•.:: '!-!!!!ill__.-t· can of beer they had. from Boat Club every Thursday night. For those of you lucky enough to have Their drunken hijinks were legendary been there with me last Thursday, I com-throughout the dorm. I won't go into NAUTICAL NIGHTS Sailing is back in style. inend you. We witnessed something truly 
much detail here, but some oftheir more notable (and classy) achievements included peeing on the doors of the rooms belonging to kids they didn't like, and giving the dreaded "Leaner." __ 
For those of you who are not acquainted with this most dev­astating of dorm pranks, a "Leaner" involves filling a standard issue dorm room wastebasket almost to the top with water or any other liquid ofyour choice. The receptacle is then leaned against the victim's door. After knocking and hiding around the corner, you can watch with schoolgirlish delight as the victim answers his inward.:.opening door, dousing his own feet wii:h whatever liquid you've used. The most legendary post-Boat Club "Leaner" in O'Neill Hall history came when one ofthe aforementioned up­perclassmen, whoinl'll refer to as "Kevin," setup the wastebasket, knocked on the door, and then forgot to run away. 
Kevin's roommate and heterosexual life partner, whom I'll refer to simply as "Hog," was the undisputed king ofBoat Club. Even after he turned 21, he still refused to go to Heartland on Thurs­day nights. Hog viewed the shiny-shirt-clad throngs that packed 
amazing. And the word. spread quickly. People who tried to set sail following the demoralizing MSU game were heartened to find that not only was the downstairs packed, but the legendary upstairs was too. Let me be the :first to articulate it: The Great Boat Club Revival is in full swing. 
Before you underclassmen get excited, let me clarify. The new Boat Club is a different animal altogether. Gone are the days when I could get in using a middle-aged black woman's ID, or using a slip of paper with the number "21" written in crayon. When I went in last week, they checked my ID hard:-They swiped it through a magnetic strip reader. What we've had here is a bit of a role reversal. We used to have a crappily furnished Senior Bar, where mostly seniors went, and a crappily furnished Boat Club, where mostly freshmen went. Nowwe have Legends, a nicely furnished freshman dance club, and Boat Club -still crappily furnished, but full of seniors eager to relive their freshman glory days, play flip-cup with dollar pitchers of watered-down Busch Light, and pump their fists to "Livin' on a Prayer." 
I love the Boat Club. May s_he ?ever leave us again. 
. 


28 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 25 SEPTEMBER 2003 

Going to Extremes , 
A campus band rides the highs and lows to bring great live music to Notre Dame 
DAN MCSWAIN 
Expensive after-hours tap water and semi-constant police surveillance don't exactly embody the spirit of rock and roll. Regardless, campus band Station One is excited about playing at Reeker's next month. That's right: Reeker's. Even after having established themselves on the house party circuit in 2001 -the same year they won the NAZZ Battle of the Bands-andhaving traveled to Detroit to perform and record their own material, Station One still believes there's no gig too small. "It's [ disappointing] that house parties are starting to get busted, so I don't know how often we'll be playing them this year," says Peter Miller, the band's drummer and one ofits founding members. "But we definitely look forward to playing Reeker's." Now that's a true love ofmusic. Their excitement is genuine,. and it's obvious that Station One is not just an av­erage college band. They are busy people, with several commitments to juggle while keeping an eye on their passion, their band. For example, the group's lead singer, senior Lawrence Santiago, ,spent last year studying abroad and now has al~ad roleinPasquerilla East Musical Company's West Side Story. Despite these sorts of distractions, the band still devotes a lot ofhard work to their music. Rounding out Station One are senior Mike Maimone on keyboard, senior David Miller -Peter Miller's twin -on lead guitar, senior Drew Shula on vocals, and sophomore Bobby Seus, a recent addition to the band, on bass. The guys all come across as easygoing and laid back, a vibe that meshes well with the band's early name, Island Boys, a nod to Santiago's and the Miller brothers' roots. Santiago says the band has a "reggae, funk, punk and dub sound'' that explores the music it is built on, but at the same time is not ~onfined by genres or simplistic tags. There's no sign of the stereotypical over­blown egos in this group. Growing up in South Bend, the Miller brothers realized their proclivity for music at an early age, but aiso knew that their hometown wasn't exactly a budding me­

-ROCK'N ROLL EVERY NIGHT Station One and friends don't mind partying every day, either. 
tropolis ofmusical activity.· 
"In a town like South Bend, you have to try to promote yourself," Peter Miller says; "Alot ofplaces don't want live bands. You almost have to convince managers of bars to let you play there." Despite the setbacks ofa sparse, yet supportive, music community on campus and the problems the baJ1q,has encountered with off-cam­pus events, none of the members seem bitter or frustrated by the local state of affairs. "I thinkwe've definitely suffered, especially at Notre Dame, due to the fact that the student body doesn't dig a lot of live music," says Peter Miller. "The way we compensated [is that] we got more into the music, we did more jamming. We try to entertain the crowd, really get the crowd going. We definitely focus on the music." 
It's debatable whether apathy towards the music scene is the cause or the effect of this campus' lukewarm enthusiasm for live music. Still, Station One takes the challenge in stride. Peter Miller even weighed on in the controversial music­downloading debate, an issue that he linked closely with the fact that a town like South Bend that does not have the same live music scene as larger college towns. 
"Download our music off our Web site," Miller says. "As a band, we want as many people to hear our music as pos­sible. It's kind of crappy that you have all ofthese musicians that are becoming too business-like, too corporate." Seus adds that after playing in numerous bands in high school, and now in the more profes­sional outfit Station One, his opinions on music-downloading and playing live have changed. "I used to be really opposed to downloading," Sens said. "I thought it was really hurting the artists. But it's really only hurting those people who are prefabricated and not really performing live. That's how most artists make their money." 
Their attitude and aura show they're ready to take the stage again. On top of Station One's reggae/funk repertoire of about 20 original songs, the band hopes to diversify their set-lists. "This year, we're really just going to play what we like," David Miller says. Whether that is their fan favorite "The Naked Song" or a cover ofRadiohead's "Paranoid Android," Station One spreads the good word oflive music to its followers, and tries to win over first-timers. So take the chance and brave the sometimes stifling Reeker's at­mosphere the evening of October 3 and soak up Station One's infectiously good spirits. . 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 


DINING AT GRANDMA'S Patrons enjoy Yesterday's familial, homegrown atmosphere as they dine. 
A local restaurant makes nostalgic dining sweet 
TRACYEVANS 
Remember those weekend trips to Grandma's? Not the long, drawn­out stories of "back in the day," but the cozy charm of her house, the dozens of trinkets from eras before your 

_ time, and, of course, the anticipation of homemade desserts. Yesterday's Food and Spirits in Granger offers just such a quaint atmosphere, where an eclectic menu and undeniably sinful desserts tempt diners to linger over their meals. 
Pulling up to the restaurant, patrons are greeted by twinkling white lights and latticework surrounding the patio ofan inviting brick home. Aptly named, Yesterday's is a trea­sure from the past and the third oldest residence in St. 

··---,~"'Joseph County. The briil~~ ~ ing was originally built in · .1837 .and ha:s .Qeenused as a post office, a train depot _. and a meeting hall for "Pio~ . _ neers· from the Grange,"_ a farmer's association that be­came the namesake for the 
the current owners, Bill and Evonne Cor­bett, took over in 1993 to transform the greasy spoon watering hole into a unique locale, both in food and atmosphere. 
Bill Corbett, a 1986 Notre Dame alumnus, returned to his college town · after living and working in the restaurant business in Florida with his wife. The first· thing the new owners insisted on changing was the quality of the food. Avoiding the frozen and canned items of their predecessors, the Corbetts worked to ensure that everything from vegetables to fish was imported to ensure 
consistent freshness. 
With a menu that offers unique ap­
petizers like Bu Bu Bread, a spinach 
and cheese indulgence inspired by the Florida restaurant_ The Bubble Room, the popular Oriental Plum Chicken, Cha-Cha Beach Coconut Shrimp, and 
even a bacon-wrapped· steak called The 
Godfather, everyo11e can find something to sink their teeth into. Each dish main­
tains a high standard in presentation and 
flavor that accentuates rhe diverse ethnic 
inspirations. 
"What we try to do is keep it simple and not overdo our dishes so then you taste the flavor. You run into problems when you keep adding ingredients,". Bill says, also admitting that his wife will peruse culinary 
'_magazines. to keep tabs on trends -and t.echniques. The restaurant's menu is reviewed and revalhped periodically_._ 

based on populadty. _ The tastiest part of Yes--­terday's -comes at the end of ­the meal, however; when a ··· copious dessert appears; mes­
town. The house has been WELCOME HOMEYesterday's sign is the only clear signal that a restaurant lies merizing even the sufficiently a restaurant since 1989, and inside this house. 
stuffed. There are always at 

30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 SEPTEMBER 2003 
and her father. that the primary "Rich" cannot begin to describe the reason people 
whipped-cream-topped mounds of bliss, do not return to most crowned with layers of chocolate, a restaurant is caramel or indulgent Reese's peanut because they feel butter. Even the apple pie isn't dull, they have not made from Martha Stewart's recipe. been treated well 
Cheesecake is the piece de resistance, by the staff. 
however. Bill makes every variety, from Besides de­the basic fruit pairings to turtle and manding supe­
Oreo swirl. Our waitress estimated rior service from that for every one regular dessert sold, his wait staff, he 
six orders of cheesecake follow. It's not even encourages 
unusual to be overwhelmed at this point diners to mill in the meal, but the desire to indulge is about the two­
undeniable and most diners can be seen floor, five-room walking out ofYesterday's happily a box restaurant and ofleftovers. bar. With every 
"Desserts are huge, a big part of our nook and cranny sales," Bill says. "It's funny because peppered with 
people .are eating healthier, but at the toys and trinkets end of the day, they're gonna have their from decades past, there's THOSE SMALLTOUCHES Simple artifacts give the
cheesecake and they're gonna have their beside a large,
restaurant an nostalgic ambience. 

pie." plenty to take in. '50s-era gas 
The ambience of Yesterday's is as While the bar is home primarily-to pump, a Flash Gordon comic book, a important a consideration for the own­sports paraphernalia, the dining rooms . small statue of the Stay Puft Marsh­ers as satisfying massive appetites. The are collections ofkitschy items from all mallow Man and a vintage Coca-Cola couple's time in Florida has _inspired generations. Since his days of living in advertisement, among other novelties. them to maintain a comfortable, relaxed Fisher Hall, Bill has prided himself on Santa-head coffee mugs and a classic dining experience. Bill insists that a res­his collections of unique decor. Be­family room-style Happy Birthday ban­taurant should be far from stuffy and if tween his own memorabilia and items ner added to the mishmash that could you suddenly drop your silverware, .no found on past shopping trips with his very well be des':!ibed as Wonderland-
wife, the esque. Corbetts' One trip collection down the 1s more rabbit hole extensive will get you than the addicted to thorough­Yesterday's ly covered lighthearted walls can dining expe­
574-272-7017 

handle. rience. Bill 
Prices

"There admits that Dinner with salad rangesis no most of the 
from $12 to $25 rhyme or locals who fre­reason to quent the spot . Hours 
Sun. 11 ..:...4 p.m.

what we have heard 
Mon.-Thurs.4-9:30 p.m.

~p_ut___~p/' of his place ! Fri./Sat. 4 -I0:30 p.m.Bill says. through word "It could of mouth, a Private rooms and group
TAKE ALLYOU WANT Patrons can't resist goodies from this delicious dessert freezer, a meals are available. staple of the restaurant. · be stuff . sure. sign of 




___.. .. . _._.. . ._ . _ . _ . . . _fromt~ree _ succ~ss: The _ .. 
one should'glare at you for interrupting . years ago or 100 years ago." Among the foodis consist~ntly high-quality, there ________an uncomfortable silence, a theory he_ hangings are black and white glossy pie-isalways something new to find on the refers to as the ''fork fac.tor." -. ture of familiar Hollywood stars like wall and, naturally, the desserts-are-.... ­"We'reuptightaboutfood, we'reuptight Jimmy Stewart, 20 percent of which always fresh and waiting to be drooled about service, and after that, we're very have been gifts from friends. News-over upon your return. D 
. . .. 

25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 


The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the law and Christianity 
Deepening the Doctrine 
Eight Lectures on the Development of Catholic Moral Teaching 
September 23  Father Newman Startles  
September 25  The Unknown Sin  
· S~ptember 30  A Girl Named Zita and Other Commodities  
October 2  The Obstinate Hill Climbed, with Eclat  
October 7  Folly, Championed  
October 9  Out of Deeds Comes Law  
October I 4  Out of Difficulties Comes Development  
October I 6  The Test of the Teaching  

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the Law School Courtroom and begin at 5:00 p.m. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
N2003 


·Fron, the Drawing Board 
A Notre Dame alumnus finds his footing in the world of comic strips 
LAURENKIEHNA 
University ofNotre Dame alumnus . Dave Kellett ('96), who drew car­toons for both Scholastic and The Obse-rver during his undergrad years, is living a life most aspiring cartoonists can only hope for. With his first major strip, "Sheldon," already in print in Eu­rope, Dave is readying his wacky cast of characters and his sharp sense of humor to take over the Sunday comics in the U.S. as well. Kellett began drawing cartoons while he was in the third grade, but during his junior year at Notre Dame he realized that cartooning was the career for him. "I had been cartooning in spits and spurts during my high school years," Kellett says, "but the possibility of cartooning for aregularly-published magazine and a regularly-published newspaper re­ally made me get my tookus in gear and start churning out cartoons." He began drawing single-panel cartoons reminis­cent ofGary Larson's "The Far Side" for Scholastic and a daily strip called "Four Food _Groups of the Apocalypse" for The Obse-rver. "'Four .Food Groups' was quite pos­sibly the worst-named comic strip ever, but my God it was fun_ to do, and folks really seemed to like it," Kellett says. "If a cartoon sucked, I'd sure hear about it at parties on Friday night. Or on the flip side, if it was really good, I'd have professors stop class to throw a compli­ment my way -which happened about a half-dozen times, and was always kind of nice." The Obse-rver strip featured a minor character who would later become the focus ofKellett's current cartooning: Sheldon, the child prodigy whom Kel­lett describes as "DeBartolo's nephew or something, [who] had bought his way into school at the age of ten." "Four Food Groups" became so popular among the student body that after gradu­ating Kellett compiled ~hd published a book of the.strips called A Well-Bal­anced Meal. The first printing sold out in a week, and the book went on to earn praise from the local NB(; affiliate as well 
ExP1..A1NTo ·You(l. 11THE. mA-r1<1~''? 
G!MNDl'ATHER 01-1, ITs... IT:S Tue APPeA\.-OF Ff1NTP.STIC.. 1"IS (Y\o,HE "TuE. ffiATP.1x:• 
... A...o ITS IDE.P. OF A PUf\\.-L1FE. l,vE.0 IN Tt-1e. '21.Al.-Wop.Lo A"o A T6C1<,.,..l.or,,1cA<. Wol!.l,.D Re.P.1.1.y l.\1TS Home.. Wn­ -.:_,/,· ,'!\'  Le:r <Yl1=. 0Aei< WP......... iius mo.,,e Is Cf\1.1-E.1> A "TA1..1<-,e;' 'BecAuse I, HAS :SOUNl>lf ANO­:cm Nor  
..  
"'­ .  f' D a ,, ,.--::cc-,,__.-~ ..,·· ·::-::-:.--·:::: ~..s..-=::::u~~:i::ill~  

MAJ(.IN.' WITH THE FUNNY Quirky humor 111akes "Sheldon" KeUett's most popular comic. 
as a Scripps Howard National]ournalism award for college cartooning. Inspired by his success, Kellett returned to his native Southern California and attended gradu­ate school at University ofCalifornia-San Diego. He then interned at The San Diego Union-Tribune, where he drew editorial cartoons on a weekly basis. 
After finishing grad school and study­ing in England, Kellett moved back to the U.S. determined to break into the professional cartooning business. He submitted cartoons to the major syn­dicates in the U.S. several times. "A syndicate essentially acts as manager, agent and distributor for a comic strip, and is essential if you want a career in cartooning," Kellett says. From thou­sands of submissions, each syndicate picks only one ·or two comic strips every year to run in newspapers. Kel­lett became frustrated by rejection and decided on a new route, creating how own Web site with new cartoons up­loaded daily. United Media, the largest syndicate of cartoons n the world, was impressed and invited him to join their site, comics.com. 
The strip picked up by United Media was "Sheldon," the story of the same software genius who had been featured in The Obse-rve1: "Sheldon" is now in a testing phase online; Kellett hopes this will increase an ever-growing reader base and lead to eventual syndication. Until then, he keeps busy drawing the daily strips. "I work at night, when the phone isn't ringing, and try not to fall asleep to the lilting commercials for Craftmatic Adjustable Beds," he jokes. 
Drawing a daily strip requires per­severance and staying up-to-date on current events and pop culture. "I get my strip ideas from all sorts of places. Once you begin to train your eyes to see them, there are humorous ideas that pop up from all sorts ofplaces, situations and personalities around you," Kellett notes. "More than anything else -and this is gonna sound cheesy-my Notre Dame education gives me inspiration. It's very hard to be creative and to gener­ate a comic strip every day, but a solid A&L education really helps out in that arena. Well, that, and having killed off just the right amount of brain cells on Busch Light during the average South Bend winter." 
To any Darners hoping to follow in Kellett's footsteps, he has one piece of advice: Read. "Read textbooks, litera­ture, magazines, the back ofcereal boxes ... everything. Cartoonists can only draw what they know, so the more you know about the world around you, the better cartoonist you'll be," he says. He also sug­gests that aspiring cartoonists accept any publication offer -no matter how small the venue. "Learning to draw cartoons on a regular schedule is very educational -asis the reader feedback you'll receive," Kellet says. 
With "Sheldon" edging quickly into the U.S. market, Kellett is busy with his daily routine and plans for a future "Sheldon" book. "I get the feeling that the syndicate would like to see still more folks reading the strip online. So, all I can do is keep producing a fun strip that makes me laugh, and hope folks will drop by," he says. . 
For more on Dave Kellett and "Sheldon," visit sheldoncomics.corn. 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 
I: 
: I 
i 1 
. : i 
1 · 
I·
,· 
I'm With the Band 
The Irish Marching Band: Geeks with Groupies 
KELLYFAEHNLE 
So I was standing on the steps of'Bond Hall the other day, just hanging out, squishing together with almost 400 other people, playing the fight song. You know, the usual. And I realized that that, right there, was as close as I'll ever get to being a rock star. This thought depressed me a little, at first. I mean, this was it, man. I can't play the guitar, keyboard or drums, and I sing like an alley cat. This was my only chance 
Number three: a slightly different dress code. So maybe we don't get to wear makeup or earrings, let alone tight black leather. But can you really say that you don't envy having your own Notre Dame plaid hanging off your shoulder and a bucket hat complete with gold chain on your noggin? Don't answer that. 
But then, as I stood there, with my horn resting on someone's shoulders and someone else's resting on my head, I started seeing it in a more positive light. 

dance they did for the last show and/or 
d) ask where the band member stands on the field so that, at halftime, instead of throwing marshmallows or leaving their seats for any reason, they can find their "band friend." 
Now, I've been in band for 13 years. Pre-ND, this meant definite "band geek" status. And we were okay with that. After a while, one learned to embrace such a title. But then we got to Notre Dame, and poof! Suddenly when people find out 
we're in the band, 
we start hear­


to have thousands of ing, "Wow! How adoring fans elbowing much time do you for space to stand in guys have to prac­order to see me do my tice?", "Sweet! "thang." Sure, it hap­What instru­pens like six times ment?" and "Awe­per season. But this, some! Can you truly, was as good as hook me up with it would get . an Irish Guard?" 
Okay, there are Now, when one is distinct differences used to a response between being in the somewhere along band and being a rock the lines of "Oh, star. Number one be­that's nice," ac­
ing that I have to share my 15 minutes of fame with almost 400 other people. Even ska bands have less than a dozen up there on stage, usu­ally. But still, even if you divide up the fans among us, that still leaves at least a good hundred or so fans per person. Some bands would die to have that many people at any given concert. 
Number two, this crowd has a distinctly different musical awareness than most rock crowds. Sure, the most knowledge­able might know that Damsha Bua is the actual name for the Victory Clog and that an Irish Guard's "tall hat" is called a "shako," but these are people who think that "goth" is a butchering ofthe pronun­ciation of"Goethe," that "skank" is just a derogatory term for women, and that the "King of Darkness" is that Lucifer guy. 
Sure, I'll never be a rock star, but then again, how many people get even this close? Seriously, as different as it is from rocking out on an actual stage, there's at least one phenomenon that makes us feel just as cool: band groupies. 
I'm talking about the people who get up early on a football Saturday not to tailgate, but to follow us into Loftus to watch our morning practice. I'm talk­ing about the people who come to the Dome on Friday nights to see Midnight Drummers Circle. I'm talking about the people who, when they hear someone is in band, proceed to a) list the band mem­bers they know-and it's over a dozen, b) start "singing" a drum cadence, c) ask the band member to demonstrate the 
companied by 
a patronizing 

you're-such-a­dork smile, being idolized and adored is a bit overwhelming, 3:t first. But after four years of Notre Dame Band lovin', one learns to be humble and accept the masses worshipping the ground one marches on ... 
Oh, who am I kidding? It's still shock­ing, still amazing, and I amgoing to cry when I graduate, not because I will be unemployed and hom,eless, but because I won't be trotting out of the tunnel any­more. But I guess there are a few thoughts to keep me going. Once I graduate, I can sit up in the stands in jeans and the Shirt. I can tailgate. I can eat a K of C steak sandwich. But best ofall, for the rest ofmy life, I, too, can be a band groupie. Rock 
on. · . 


Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu, 34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION . 25 SEPTEMBER.2003 

The repercussions of the current economic recession have penetrated the Notre Dame bubble: the Crafting Corner has been cancelled. No longer can you sew away a Saturday night or decorate your very own brick. Listed below are a few activities to satisfy different parts ofyour corporeal being and pass the time that once was devoted to crafting. 
(heart) 
What: Peace Corps Information Session When: Tuesday, October 7 at 7:00 p.m. Where: Center for Social Concerns Lounge Why: You have been unable to fully enjoy the other calendar events because of anxiety about your lack ofpost­college plans. You also want to help people who are not Americans some place far from South Bend. How Much: Two years ofyour life after graduation 


(tummy)­What: Late Nite Grill sponsored by the Class of 2006 When: Thursday, September 25 at 10:00 p.m. Where: Fieldhouse Mall Why: You tend to get a bit hungry mid­AcoustiCafe and the flex points situation is already looking a bit dire. Free hot meat after dark. What could be better? How Much: A few flex points for antacids 


(mind) 
What: International Dante Seminar 
When: Thursday, September 25 to Sunday, September 
28 
Where: Center for Continuing Education, McKenna 
Hall 
Why: Travel through the inferno, purgatorio and 
paradiso for three days with a panel of scholars as your 
guide. The wisdom absorbed through a few hours of 
listening will provide you with stimulating questions 
and commentaries for your Core class discussion (and 
• 
your participation grade). 
How Much: Free 
(eyes) What: Multicultural Fair When: Saturday, October 4, 1:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. Where: North Quad Why: The musiG,blasting from the quad will eliminate the possibility of an afternoon nap. When you can't beat 'em, join 'em for free ethnic food, arts and crafts, and entertainment by Ballet Folklorico. How Much: Free (ears) What: the Notre Dame Chamber Players concert When: Sunday, September 28 from 2:00 p.m. -3:30 p.m. Where: Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum ofArt Why: Unless you are travelling to Purdue this weekend, it will be a few weeks before you can witness the live entertainment of the Notre Dame Marching Band. An ensemble ofNotre Dame's Department ofMusic faculty will perform an all-Beethoven program that can satisfy your craving for live music until the band returns for the USC game. There will not be trumpets or sousaphones, but there will be a piano, violin and cello. How Mucn: $3 for students at the LaFortune Box Office 



25 SEPTEMBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 
by Kurt Peterson
UingWorkers 

Dorothy Day's dictate that, as Chris­tians, we simultaneously need to serve the poor and seek to change the sys­tem that creates poverty came alive for me at Notre Dame. 
Kurt Peterson, an '87 alumnus, is Organizing Director for Local 11 Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees in Los Angeles, Calif. 

36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
"Noone may deny the right to organize [a 
union] without attacking human dignity 
itself. Therefore, we firmly oppose orga­nized efforts, such as those regrettably now seen in this country, to break existing unions and prevent workers from organizing." 
-from Economic Justice for All, United States 
Conference of Catholic Bishops 
Two decades ago, I read this statement inmy Core class from the bishops' letter on the U.S. economy. However, I did not comprehend the passage's truth until much later. 
As a union organizer ofhotel workers, I now wit­ness the wreckage of company campaigns to defeat unions. The bishops were correct.· Workers who dare to stand up for a union routinely suffer hu­miliation, threats, intimidation and unfair discharge. Their dignity indeed undergoes brutal attack. 
Federal law provides no protection for workers who organize. One ofevery 20 workers who attempts to organize a union is fired, and it regularly takes a year or more tc:i'return to work. 
While I did not discern my vocation as a labor 
organizer in South Bend, Notre Dame neverthe­
less had a profound impact on my eventual choice. 
The Center for Social 
Concerns introduced me 
to service work, and a 
Summer ServiceProjectin 
Milwaukee at Casa Maria, 
a Catholic Worker House 
of Hospitality, induced in 
me an unquenchable thirst 

to seek systematic change. Dorothy Day's dictate 
that, as Christians, we simultaneously need to serve 
the poor and seek to change the system that creates 
poverty came alive for me at Notre Dame. 
Unions provide a unique vehicle to lift working 
families out of poverty. Economically, unionized 
workers have higher salaries and better, more af­
fordable benefits. More importantly, union workers 
have a voice onthe job. I have seen numerous workers 
develop as leaders and assert control over their lives 
during union-organizing drives. 
Yet the Catholic social teaching supporting the 
workers' right to form a union was, and continues 
to be, purposefully absent at Notre Dame. Campus 
employees, including food service workers, remain 
unorganized. Inthe 1970s, the university fought the 
organizing ofthe groundskeepers. Duringmy time 
the university imported a manager from notoriously anti-union Yale to squelch food service workers' de­sire to exercise their right to organize. 
Last year, when asked its position on unionization ofuniversityemployees, the administration stated: "If the university were to believe that organizing was in the best interests ofa group ofworkers, why would we not seek to help in that?" This statement assumes that campus workers are unable to decide by themselves whether union membership is in their best interest. I doubt that the same standard is applied to professors oradministrators who desire to join a professional as­sociation. Simply put, Catholic social teaching dictates that the university should have no say at all inwhether its employees want to join a union. 
The tragic consequence of Notre Dame's decision to forego Catholic social teaching on unions reaches beyond the adverse economic and social impact on its workers to the moral development ofits students. Many alumni, if not most, work in business, often in management positions. The university's failure to model a Christian response to union activity creates a hole in the moral development ofthese graduates. Notsurprisingly, university trustees head up some of the most anti-union corporations· such as Gallo, Mar­riott andAzteca. Infact, these employers repeat Notre Dame's justification against unionization because they claim to know what is best for their employees. 
Though many Catholic institutions share Notre Dame's position on the matter, a growing num­ber of Catholic leaders are courageously abiding by the bishops' statement.The Archdiocese of Los Angeles defeated a unionizing effort of the Archdiocese's cemetery workers in 1988. Twelve years later, during the Great Jubilee of 2000, which in Church tradition is a moment that can be used to ask for forgiveness, Cardinal Roger Mahony apologized to workers "if our attitude and efforts failed to value working people and their legitimate right to seekself-organization." He promised to continue efforts to improve the relationship between the Church and labor. Last year, the Archdiocese permitted its cafeteria food service workers at the newly-opened Cathedral to unionize without employer opposition. The Cathedral cafeteria workers now earn a living wage and enjoy free family health insurance for themselves and their families. 
It is time for Notre Dame to embrace the spirit of the Jubilee, acknowledge its failure to comply with the Catholic social teaching on unions, and allow its workers to organize a union without interference. . 
25 SEPTEMBER 2003 











