i'
/A To the Notre Dame Student Body
I We, the undersigned, as officers of the Band, wish to thank the student body for the wonderful support given the Marching Band during the 1950 football season.	.
The ovations given to the Band when they came onto the field for the pregame and half-time shows will long be remembered by the members of the band. Your applause made all of the hours of work and practice seem worthwhile. It is our hope that there will be as much cooperation between the band and the stu-1 dent body in the future as there has been in the past, so that we may have bigger and better- football seasons here at Notre Dame.
Dave O’Leary, Drum Major Officers of the Band,
A Pro Voice
Editor:
s On behalf of the fellows in Breen-Phillips I would like to express our appreciation for the wonderful job done i by WND in presenting their all-request program on Thanksgiving Day. The en
gineers who labored so unselfishly are to be highly commended. From the great number of requests it seems obvious that this was one of the most popular programs presented this year. Let’s have some more of this fine type of entertainment.
Jack Donahue 329 Breen-Phillips
We agree. . . . See editorial on page 7—Editor.
A Con Voice
Editor:
Apparently this year’s Scholastic staff is trying to set some sort of record in the field of absurd articles. First came Mr. Janowski’s asinine comments on WND. Now, close behind it comes the editorial, “They Deserve Something” (Nov. 17 issue).
I do not argue your point that they (the guys who, despite their years of effort, never made the headlines) deserve recognition of the long and tiring hours of practice they endured. Anyone can see that they are just as much a • part of the team as the headline snatchers, that it takes more than 11 men to make a winning team.
I do, however, fail to see why, in youi- opinion, fencing and target-shooting should net be classified as difficult
sports, that the first-stringers on these squads do not deserve the same recognition granted to the first-stringers on some of the so-called “Major” sports. The editorial writer apparently has a grave misconception of what constitutes a difficult sport. If he has ever had contact with fencing or target-shooting, he does not show it, for he seemingly does not realize the long, painstaking, nervewracking hours of practice and the unusual amount of skill that go into both sports. Just because one sport requires • less physical contact than another does not mean that it is easier. In fact, it is often the other- way around.
Another bad feature of this editorial is that it is liable to create bad feelings. Just place yourself in the shoes- of the fencers and sharp-shooters who read the editorial. Certainly their attitude toward the writer of such an article is not going to be one of friendliness.-
So, before you write any more such articles, stop and think a bit. Try to put a little more reason into an otherwise fine publication.
Bill Grady, ’53
130 Cavanaugh
Everyone to his own opinion. Also: as yet no fencer or rifleman known previously has shown any neiv founded un-
(Continued on Page 32)
Where is the best GIFT STORE in town?
at GILBERT’S naturally.
Ask the upperclassmen!

GRANADA.

^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN ST.

Open every evening until 9
Dec. I, 1950
THROW AWAY
baby... it's warm outside
Keep warm and collected in 100% wool Vanaca Flannel sport shirts. As cozy as sitting on a chimney ... as soft as the look in your gal’s eyes when you invite her to the class prom. In a wide range of solid he-man colors with California Lo-No collar (smart with or without tie) ... or in Sportchecks with regular collar, o
9 Van Hensen hirf
''the world's smartest” UxUl. LO
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813<817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
4
to for 10<
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY HNE QUALITY) Pipe* of specially selected imported briar.fft Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L Aho Frank Medico "Standard'...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe Frank Medico Cigarette Holder* ty & ?2 MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
When the Filter in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and flakes It has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking I
Real
Filters ..not men hollow tubes
The ideal place to f ind
those
Christmas Gifts which demand the
Catholic touch.
AQUINAS LIBRARY
and Book Shop, Inc.
110 E. LaSalle
Ciioose your V4N HEUSEN from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
ROmTM
of
The Scholastic
by
Top of the Week
An early Winter with tons of really beautiful snow. . .
Wishbone Gleanings
Turkey Day has coma and gone without too much confusion, except for an Alaskan-type blizzard that left many sections of the country isolated for a spell and handed the Michigan Wolverines the Rose Bowl bid on a silver platter.
While most of the Notre Dame student body left the tradition-hallowed halls for gobbler and cranberries, some eager-beavers who toil in the Southwest corner of the Fieldhouse behind red-lights and soundproof walls were handling platters of shellac all day, instead of platters of much tastier mein.
A slight pat from our not-often raised arm to WND’s not-oft-patted back for-working all of Thanksgiving Day, for no other reason than to show the students how many things there are to be thankful for, like the four freedoms—freedom from fear, freedom from want, freedom of speech, and freedom to turn your radio off whenever you want.
ter with each issue. This year’s copy has 91 jam-packed pages full of names, numbers, and letters. It lists the real names of every prof and student in the University. Just what this is supposed to accomplish we haven’t figured out yet, but you had better get yours before they sell out.
After all, its only a quarter and you can’t find another* 25c publication with so much in it, or can you?
Middle of the Week
What is T. C. L.?
——
Disaster
Last Monday the South Bend Tribune withdrew from publication in their AP, UP, and INS-laden pages a comic strip called simply enough “Pogo”. This very careful and humorous strip drawn by Walt Kelly brightened many a Notre Dame man’s day more than a lot of things could ever do, including free drinks in all the local bars.
Should the Tribune cut out “Nancy”,
“Ozark Ike”, or “Grandma” we would shed no tears. In fact, if “Grandma” tripped over her long skirt and cracked her ugly grey head, if “Ozark Ike” were committed to an institution forever, and if “Nancy” would quietly disintegrate, we would be the first to award the Tribune, THE WEEK Distinguished Service Star, emblematic of heroic service above and beyond the call of advertisers and readership surveys.
Will the Tribune return the expressionful little possum and all his “swamp critter” friends to their well deserved place on the classified page? Will “Pogo” suffer the same fate as other real cartoons and be replaced by lots of strips with no humor at all?
If the Tribune is anti-possum, we understand their actions. If “Pogo” doesn’t come back we’ll probably end up in the St. Joe or else start buying the Chicago Daily News, a paper with real courage and foresight, which daily, except Sunday, prints “Pogo” and keeps a few of their readers happy.
Bottom of the Week .
. . . when the University snow-plow gets stuck, that’s enough of .that stuff.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
The pity of the whole affair is that the WNDers who worked on Thanksgiving couldn’t have enjoyed the holiday in the traditional manner. Those ulcers are tricky things, we realize, and it’s a shame that such ambitious people have to worry about them so soon. We expect ours in about 15 years, providing the war and other forces don’t rush matters.
Anybody who happened to tune in to WND’s “Cold Turkey” enjoyed it. But in our gluttonous way, we enjoyed too much fowl, yams, and pumpkin pie. We’re still wondering what the Pilgrim Fathers did, without WND and bicarbonate of soda.
More Brothers
We would like to explain our absence last Friday. Seems as though another brother has been added to our frustrated publications family—the Student Directory, 1950-1951. This green-covered little masterpiece came out this week and is now on sale at the Bookstore for two-bits.
This publication comes out invariably every year and seems to be getting bet-
St&p,	up
learn to dance the George Davis way
"2 for 1"
RATES NOW IN EFFECT
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50%. Call 3-8229 for free trial lesson.
DANCE FIESTA . Every Thursday, 9 p. m. All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
Cjuftcp STUDIOS
106 W. MONROE corner Michigan SOUTH BEND - Dial 3-S229
Dec. 1, 1950
5

DECEMBER 1
COLFAX (through Dec. 6)—Some of those who saw the preview of Two Weeks—With Love (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) thought it was terrible; others liked it. You’ll have to be your own judge. It stars Jane Powell and Ricardo Montalban. PALACE (Through Dec. 7)—Jimmy Stewart shines in The Jackpot' (N-2), one of the brightest comedies of the year. Likeable Barbara Hale plays his wife; Alan Mowbray, Jimmy Gleason and Patricia Medina all help out. The co-pic is a documentary, Cassino to Korea (A-l).
DECEMBER 2
WASHINGTON ‘HALL—The Golden Tiventies (A-l) is far and away the best of the. documentaries put out on the roaring 20’s.
DECEMBER 3
GRANADA—Elia Kazan has done another excellent job of directing —this time the film is Panic in the Streets (B). Richard Widmark and Paul Douglas share top billing. Student trippers might be interested to know the film was shot entirely in New Orleans.
DECEMBER 5
WASHINGTON HALL—The Notre Dame Community Orchestra, under the direction of Charles A. Biondo, will present a concert featuring Miss Rosalie Schnewind, violinist, at 8:15 p. m.
DECEMBER 6
GRANADA—MGM’s The Next Voice You Hear is a departure from the run-of-the-mill plots. It’s the story of what happens after the voice of God is heard on all radios one evening. James Whitmore and Nancy Davis are the leading players.
DECEMBER 7
WASHINGTON HALK-Our Very Own (A-2) has Ann Blythe in its favor but not much else.. COLFAX (through Dec. 13)—Two Flags West (A-l) is a rather talkative western with Joseph Cotten, Linda Darnell and Jeff Chandler vying for acting honors.
DECEMBER 8
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. PALACE—A trio of Warner Brothers most promising young actresses, Eleanor Parker, Patricia Neal and Ruth Roman, head the cast of Three Secrets. The story is straight out of a slick magazine but not as soggy as some.
DECEMBER 9
WASHINGTON HALL—Tarzan and the Slave Girl (A-2) is noted for the witty and extremely sophisticated epigrams spoken by Tarzan, ugh-wumpco, himself.
DECEMBER 10
GRANADA—Dial 119 (A-2) a modest sleeper. Marshall Thompson as a maniac killer. Wyoming Mail (A-l), a technicolored western, has Stephen McNally and Alexis Smith sharing honors with the horses. BACH FESTIVAL—This celebration of the great composer’s death will include an organ recital, a lecture, a recital, a concert, a library exhibit and a special program on WND. For further details see story in news section.
Vol. 92 December 1, 1950 No. II
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52________________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52______Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51__Photography LEON GARDNER, '52_______Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51__Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '52_______Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Although news has not yet reached the general merchandising world, Mother Nature is currently conducting experiments in South Bend and its environs to produce a new taste treat— quick-frozen Notre Dame man. Last weekend was a test run preparatory to full-scale production. This delicacy, equally suitable for buffet suppers and picnic lunches, will soon be at your . neighborhood grocer’s, provided present climatic conditions continue. This week Scholastic features the giant size in the new line, Leo Brennan of L’Anse, Mich.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin, ’51
6
The Scholastic

K Bi-Centennial Festival
Festivals are almost a habit with Americans. Just let someone say, “You know, it’s so many years since so-and-so died. Wouldn’t it be a good idea to celebrate,” and woomp — you’ve got a festival.
At Notre Dame next week, the Department of Music and the Department of Modem Languages will team up to present a four-day-long series of concerts and lectures. Featured will be Bach’s music for organ, for violin and piano, and for chorus. The best the University has to offer in the way of soloists and musical groups will be represented and any student -who misses his favorites will really be missing something — especially when its all Bach.
Bach’s death means little to many people. To anyone who is interested in the Fine Arts in general and music in particular, Bach’s death marked the end of one of the most gifted and outstanding musicians and composers in history.
Another thing we should all remember about such a program as the Bach festival is the tremendous amount of outside work done by faculty members and students in putting over the program.
It’s a shame the University doesn’t have a harpsichord to be used in one of next week’s programs. Next to his mastery of the organ, Bach gave his harpsichord compositions a brilliancy and beauty that no composer has ever been able to equal. And remember, Bach is still recognized as the master of contrapuntal and fugal invention — studied diligently by all musicians.
Station Scores
A handful of students kept WND on the air Thanksgiving day and did one of the best jobs of broadcasting ever to come out of the campus station. These men could have chosen the easy way out. It was a holiday. Everyone else had either left the premises completely or was loafing around in the rooms.
These WND men could have closed up shop. They could have said they deserved a free day as much as anyone else. But they didn’t do that. They worked.
Since it was a weekday, the national hookups were clogged with the daily soap operas. WND, on the other hand, offered hours of pleasurable entertainment. For benefit of those who were gone, the station scheduled an allday request program. The music ran a variety gamut from opera selections, to hill-billy yodeling, to popular stuff.
And the chatter that filled in between the records had an informal, relaxed quality that isn’t too often achieved, although often tried, on WND. The announcers shot the breeze and you knew little of it, if any at all, was planned. There was nothing stilted or coy about the chatter — just friendly talk. It made for good listening.
Dec. 1, 1950
Tarzan Without Monkey-Shines
An era ended recently when the law came to Washington Hall. Like death, it was bound to come. Gone are the nights when hordes could shuffle into the campus antique and carry on like the South Bend kids at downtown movies on Sunday afternoons.
Whistling was for evermore tabu. Stamping and stomping was declared verboten. The law, in this case, is being represented by Blue Circle marshals. In a way, it seems a shame that these Saturday night mad-houses had to cease. Often times the demonstrations were more fun than the films flashed on the screen.
But lately audiences had gotten out of hand. Especially in vie.w of the fact that the quality of the films had improved greatly. It always seemed okay for the hoots and howls to interrupt the ancient pics brought to Washington Hall. However, there was no excuse for this kind of behavior to continue when good films were shown.
No one likes to have fine entertainment ruined by infantile misbehavior. Too many viewers were disregarding the rest of the audience. They were being selfish and were taking advantage of a blacked-out theater in which to cut up.
The way the Saturday audiences have accepted the Blue Circle’s edict is a good sign. It shows that everyone hasn’t forgotten about the common good. Right now it looks as if Washington Hall movies won’t be something to avoid in the future. Now you’ll be able to go and appreciate the flickers in silence made possible by adults. The rather fragile campus theater will also appreciate the advent of law and order. The new era should add a few extra years to its dwindling life.	»
Thunder in the Fieldhouse
Tomorrow evening the football season will be a thing of the past and all eyes will again turn to the basketball court. Needless to say, we hope Moose Krause and his boys get the same type of support that was given the 1950 football team. If the Notre Dame student body is as enthusiastic in backing the basketball team as they were this Fall, the fieldhouse should really shake.
But enthusiasm brings up another point. Booing and hissing the opposition and the decisions of the officials doesn’t do anyone any good. It puts the Irish teams at a disadvantage and makes the Irish rooting section look bad. We don’t need bad sportsmanship to win, so why bother?
The best of luck to the Irish Five. We’re all behind them so let’s hear that fieldhouse thunder!	,
.	7
YOU PAY NO MORE
FOR RANCE LESSONS AT
firths,
• You actually save money because you learn the new dances in a fraction of the usual time.
Dance After Only I Lesson
Arthur Murray’s amazing Magic Step gives you the shortcut to mastery of all the new steps! His talented experts quickly bring out your natural grace and sense of rhythm — make you fun to dance with and a pleasure to watch.
With the prestige of. Arthur Murray behind you, you step out with new confidence . . . to new popularity.
See what Arthur Murray offers you. Come in or phone 2-3339.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE, SOUTH BEND
Call 2-3339 for a FREE Trial Lesson Today.
SPECIAL OFFER
Ansco Plenachrome Film
The All-Weather film — Guaranteed with any camera in all weather — all the time.
TWO Rolls of either 127-620-120-616-116 for the price of ONE.
Originally NOW
2 rolls 127 Ansco Plenachrome_________________ $ .80	$ .40
2 rolls 620 Ansco Plenachrome ________________ .90	.45
2 rolls 120 Ansco Plenachrome_________________ .90	.45
2 rolls 616 Ansco Plenachrome_________________ I JO	.55
2 rolls 116 Ansco Plenachrome____•.___________ 1.10	.55
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Album, $2.90
Mail your order to
SOUTH BEND PHOTO
Post Office Box 1439
South Bend 24, Indiana
Here is what Ted
Maloof, Sophomore in Commerce, has to say ^bout F.B.R.’s course in better reading:
‘‘During this course I have learned to read easily and accurately at a rate more than three times faster than before. I went from 281 words per minute to well over 1.000 w’ords per minute for similar material. Naturally. I now' do much more reading in less time.’*
What would it be worth to you to be able to comfortably do all of your assigned and leisure reading in far less time than you now require?
Come in today for a FREE rate check. Find out how fast and well you are reading now. Learn how in a short time you can easily double this rate.
THE FOUNDATION for BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Ave. 2-8670	3-0077
Come in for a free demonstration of the methods used to develop your own reading skills.
8
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER II
DECEMBER I, 1950
Music, Language Departments to Present Four-Day Festival Commemorating Bach
By NEIL SCARLETT, ’53
In commemoration of the two hundredth anniversary of the death of Johann Sebastian Bach the Departments of Modern Languages and Music are presenting a Bach Festival. Designed to acquaint the local students with the life and works of the renowned German composer, the Festival is slated to begin on Sunday, Dec. 10, continuing through Dec. 13.
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, Head of the Department, of Music, will formally open the four-day celebration with an organ recital, to be given in Sacred Heart Church. The concert, commencing at 4 p. m., will include both the best known and the least known of Bach's works.
Highlighting the Festival will be a lecture that evening by the noted authority on music, Dr. Hans Bosenwald. The ' lecture is to be held in Washington Hall at 8 p. m. The speaker is dean of Chicago Musical College.
Dr. Rosenwald, educated in Germany, has made frequent lecture appearances throughout the country since his arrival in the United States in 1936 and has firmly established himself as educator, conductor, author, and editor. •
Editor-in-chief of Mxisic News, he is the author of Handbook of Music History and has also acted as editor of Who’s Who in Music. In addition to his duties as dean, Dr. Rosenwald is also director of the Graduate School and chairman of the musicology department.
On the agenda for- Tuesday evening is a combined concert and lecture, to be offered by two members of the Department of Music, pianist Charles Biondo and violinist Carl Mathes. The entertainment, scheduled for 8 p. m. in Washington Hall, will consist of a general talk on music appreciation, as well as selections by the two artists.
The combined glee clubs of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College will climax the festivities with a concert in Washington Hall on Wednesday. Several of Bach’s immortal creations are scheduled for the program, which will start at 8 p. m. Included among these are
“God’s Time Is the Best Time” and “Spirit.”
In conjunction with the observance, the Notre Dame Library will present an exhibit on eighteenth century music. The display will feature books on the famous composer’s life. In addition, the AudioVisual Department will offer a series of three movies on classical music.
WND will enter into the spirit of the celebration by featuring selections from Bach during the four-day proceedings. On the evening of Dec. 7, the campus radio station will play Bach’s B MinorMass in honor of the feast of the Immaculate Conception.
Concerning the ultimate goal of the observance, Professor Richard Brown of the Department of Modem Languages, stated: “It is hoped that this Festival will make the bitter pill of understanding music a little more palatable.” An invitation has been extended to the public by Mr. Pedtke and Professor Walter-Langford, Head of the Department of Modem Language.
Miss Rosalie Schnewind
Violin Soloist Appears With ND Orchestra
Miss Rosalie Schnewind will appear with the Notre Dame Community Orchestra in Washington Hall Tuesday night at 8:1-5. Miss Schnewind will be the feature soloist on the violin in the annual Orchestra December Concert.
The Notre Dame Orchestra is a -55-piece organization under the direction of Mr. Charles A. Biondo. It has, since its reorganization by Mr. Biondo in 1946, presented an annual Fall concert, and an annual Spring concert.
Miss Schnewind is a scholarship student and graduate of New York’s Juil-liard School of Music. Her appearance marks the first time the Orchestra has reached outside its own members for solo talent.
Miss Schnewind began her study of the violin at the age of -5. At Juilliard, she studied under Louis Persinger, composer, artist and teacher. She will perform the Symphonic Espagnole, by Lalo, on Tuesday night's program. '
The evening’s music will open with the orchestra playing von Weber’s Oberon Overture. It will include Miss Schnewind on the Lalo Symphonic, and Bizet’s little known Symphony in C major.
The Orchestra is a long-standing feature of the Notre Dame Music Department. It boasts Knute Rockne in the flute section in the days of legend.
The group was disbanded in 1941 and reorganized by Director Biondo in 1946. In addition to the Fall and Spring full concerts, the orchestra plays selections at the Washington Day Flag Ceremony.
The average concert program of the Orchestra opens with an overture. It then features a symphony from one of the masters—Haydn, Mozart, Schubert, Beethoven, and others. The high point of each program is the solo work. The soloist, up to this year, has been a member of the orchestra itself.	•
Miss Schnewind triumphed last year over all competitors on the violin at the annual South Bend Symphony Soloist competitions. She has, according to Mr. Biondo, “complete command of her instrument, and possesses a warmth of tone and facility of technique that will -in all probability stand her well in the future of solo work to which she is destined. The orchestra feels privileged to have her. . . ” .
9
Dec. 1, 1950
Father Murray chats with Father LaFarge after the associate editor of 'America' gives an address Friday night on 'Interracial Justice and the Communist Issue.'
Father LaFarge Makes Reply to Communism
“Our answer to Communism is in the Catholic idea of a community, in which everyone contributes his share and in which everyone has his say.”
This was the keynote of an address on “Interracial Justice and the Communist Issue” by Rev. Joseph LaFarge, S.J., one of the most prominent leaders in the cause of interracial justice in the United States.
Father LaFarge is the present associate editor and former editor-in-chief of America, the national Catholic weekly, and is the founder of the magazine Interracial Review. He has also written two books on the subject, entitled The Race Question and the Negro and No Postponement, published this year.
Given in the Law Auditorium last Friday evening, the speech was jointly sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series and the Department of Sociology. Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., head of the sociology department, introduced the speaker.
In defining and explaining interracial justice, Father LaFarge described it as
“the crystalization of Catholic social teaching.” He was particularly pleased with the response of Catholic colleges and universities.
Since the formation of the Catholic Interracial Council in 1954, the movement has grown “from a mustard seed to a very substantial tree,” Father said.
A positive program, interracial justice is not only a virtue but a necessity as well, for as Father points out, we are all children of one Father and Christ came to redeem all men.
The aim of this movement can not be achieved by one group or race alone, he stressed. “It will never be fulfilled if the Negro simply sits back waiting for the white man to rectify all his injustices. Nor can the white man evade his duty by deferring action until the Negro has ‘proved himself worthy’.”
On the afternoon of the lecture, Father LaFarge had delivered the main speech at a conference on interracial justice in South Bend. After the evening address at Notre Dame, he answered questions put to him by the audience.
Debate Team Tackles Iowa Tourney Today
Today, the University’s debate team, pursuing a rigorous schedule, is in Iowa City participating in the University of Iowa invitational tournament. This tournament is a contest among approximately 30 midwestern and far western universities. Bill Carey, president of the Debate Club and national champion in debate, will lead the club this afternoon. Other members making the trip are Al De Crane, Tom Field and Bill Dempsey.
Next week the debaters will appear in the Freshman-Sophomore tournament of -the Chicago Division of the University of Illinois to be held at the Navy Pier. This contest is open to all men who have not participated in a varsity debate. Paul Davis, Bill Fagan, Robert Houck, Robert Barbierri, Don Dowden, and Bill Hank will be six of the eight-man team which wall represent Notre Dame.
Just recently at the Bradley University Speech Tournament Notre Dame’s representatives swept almost all of the honors. Contests were held in debate, extempore speaking, original oratory, dis- " ■ cussion, radio-newscasting and folk-tale telling. Notre Dame received superiorratings in debate, extempore speaking and oratory, while also getting good ratings in all the other divisions.
Forty-nine schools entering 128 teams participated in this affair and Notre Dame won 25 out of a possible 29 certificates. The next closest school captured only eight.
Mr. Leonard Sommer, coach of the debate team, sent only new members of the team to the Bradley tournament. Al De- ' -Crane, Don Dowden, Joe Bellon, Tom Field, Hugh Braun, Dave Burrell, Bill Fagan and Paul Davis went to the tournament and all succeeded in winning certificates. In all, 20 debaters have been placed in debates so far this year by Mr. Sommer to set some kind of a new record.
Last Tuesday the Debate Club gave an exhibition before the Civitan Club of South Bend in the LaSalle Hotel.
Political Scientist Discusses Aspect of Totalitarianism
“Totalitarian Terror and Organization” was the subject of lectures by Miss Hannah Arendt Monday and Wednesday under the auspices of the Committee on International Relations. Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., acted as chairman. Meetings were held in the Law Building.
Miss Arendt, author of the forthcoming book, The Origins of Totalitarianism, has also contributed to such periodicals as the Kenyon Review, the Partisan Review, and the Review of Politics.
10
The Scholastic
tyiam tlte /ialcatuf. Rail . . .
'Dinner Man' Scores With Skipper Swift Turning in Fine Performance as Whiteside
Bullseye! The University Theatre scored one this week—even though perhaps one more commercial than artistic—with its production of Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman’s The Man Who Came to Dinner. It was a comedy peppered with acid quips, but not too much else.
Large audiences filled Washington Hall with loud laughter during the play’s four night run, and resounding applause climaxed opening night curtain calls. Since it met with such wholehearted approval, the play’s selection was apparently a wise one.
Everyone knows the familiar story of how Sheridan Whiteside, nationally known author and radio raconteur and carbon copy of Alec Woolcott, breaks his hip at the Stanley home, decides to convalesce there, and proceeds to run the entire household. It was to the cast’s credit that the oft-told story didn’t appear shabby.
Tinkering with some of the dialogue didn’t help the play at all, but despite some minor faults such as this, it was a good, if not the best production put on by the University Theatre during the past few years.
Though Leonard Sommer’s direction was choppy and somewhat stilted in spots — and disastrous in one scene — he managed to control his large cast very well. His falling curtain scenes were extremely effective.
However, the major share of plaudits should go to Skipper Swift. He played the exacting lead role with great skill. He was always ready to give the production a boost whenever it sagged. He was a perfect foil for the old characters who roamed, gurgled and gushed about. The only flaw in his performance was the finger-to-lip business taken from Monty Wooley’s interpretation of the role. But this was probably the director’s fault, rather than Swift’s.
The supporting cast was uniformly good. Mike Murray as Beverly Carlton, John Schneller as Banjo and Jack Roberts as Dr. Bradley made the most of their parts. The feminine members of the cast were capable. Margaret Me Cowan as Harriet Stanley was extremely good. She should be a strong contender for the Veda Simmons role in Harvey.
The University Theatre has gotten its season underway. It is hoped the group will soon apply its production perfections to a more substantial piece of drama. The group has hit its stride,
technically speaking. All that’s left is for it to do the same, artistically speaking. CAST
MRS. ERNEST W. STANLEY ....  Pat	Smanda
MISS PREEN ________________ Barbara Currey
RICHARD STANLEY    Phil Bolin JUNE STANLEY ________________ Deni Egry
JOHN ...................... Doug Robertson
SARAH .......................Lee Wermuth
MRS. DEXTER ...............Geraldine Virgil
MR. ERNEST W. STANLEY .....Larry McDermott MAGGIE CUTLER  ____________ Patricia McCaughan
DR. BRADLEY _________________ Jack Roberts
SHERIDAN WHITESIDE ________ Skipper Swift
HARRIET STANLEY _______ Alargaret McCowan
BERT JEFFERSON ........ Richard Wolfgram
PROFESSOR METZ ________ John Giambruno
LUNCHEON GUESTS ......  Dick	Cotter. Marty
O'Connor, Bob Williams MR. BAKER .................Richard Dolan
EXPRESSMEN ............Paul Davis. Bill Hank
LORRAINE SHELDON ............ Alice Weiss
SANDY __________________   Alike	Caliandro
BEVERLY CARLTON ........... Mike Murray
WESTCOTT ............... Patrick	Shanahan
RADIO TECHNICIAN _________  John	Donohue
CHORISTERS .... Don Coalfield. Frank Jackman.
John Jarnot, Tony Kennedy. Fred Zerovnik BANJO ..................... John Schneller
DEPUTIES .—......... Don Krebs. George Pope
PLAINCLOTHES MAN    Haney O'Neill
—Ken Thoren, ’51
Library Exhibits Dr. Zahm's Medals and Science Papers
A current exposition at the library features the various medals awarded to Dr. Albert F. Zahm, a brother of Father Zahm, during his scholarly life. Seven
Medals awarded to Dr. Albert F. Zahm during his scholarly life, and two volumes of Dr. Zahm's Aeronautical papers are currently on exhibit in the University library.
of the medals were presented to Dr. Zahm while attending Notre Dame; he obtained the others years later.
The collection includes a First Honor Medal, 1880 (renewed again in 1881); four medals for classical courses, 1880-83; the Laetare Medal, presented to him by the University of Notre Dame in 1925, and the Mendel Medal, awarded to him by Villanova College in 1930 for outstanding work in the field of science.
Also included in the exhibition are two volumes of papers written by Dr. Zahm on the subject of Aeronautics. Dr. Zahm has given these medals and papers to Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and following the exposition they will be placed in the Archives.
Foi- a number of years Fathei- Zahm was on the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics, Library of Congress. While at Notre Dame he made Aeronautics experiments nevei- before attempted in the United States. Many of his experiments turned into great discoveries. He invented the Aerodynamic Balances in 1880. In 1882 he built a wind tunnel to compare the right and left drafts of Aeronautic models.
During his last year at school, in collaboration with Auguste Chauveau, he organized America’s first Aeronautic Congress which met in 1903 at the Chicago World’s Fair. Dr. Zahm also invented the three-torque control for airplanes, wire tensometer, vectograph protractor, and the three-component anemo-.graph.
Dec. 1, 1950
11
Prof. Gilson Enlarges On Thought of Scotus
A discussion of the thought of Duns Scotus, outstanding Franciscan philosopher and theologian of the 14th Century, was given by Professor Etienne Gilson, of the French Academy, yesterday afternoon in Room 101 of the Law Building.
This lecture was the first in a series of three entitled “The Fundamental Positions of Duns Scotus in the Light of Historical Research.” The remaining lectures will be held in Room 101 of the Law Building today at 4:15 p.m. and tomorrow at 11 a.m.
“Professor Gilson has’ made extensive research on matters pertaining to the thought of John Duns Scotus,” stated Rev. Gerald Phelan, director of the Medieval Institute, “and will deal in particular with the theory called ‘the nature of being’.” This series of lectures comprises a summary of the latest developments in scholastic research on the manuscripts of Duns Scotus.
In addition to his lectures on Duns Scotus, Professor Gilson also discussed “Historical Research and the Future of Scholasticism” in the Law Auditorium yesterday at 8:15 p.m. According to Father Phelan this lecture was not as technical or philosophical as those on Duns Scotus, and was more readily apprehendable by the general public.
Professor Gilson’s lectures are presented by the Medieval Institute through the benefits received from the Grace Foundation, established in honor of Michael P. Grace, II, a former student at Notre Dame. Annual funds are provided by this foundation for the support and advancement of the Medieval Institute of Notre Dame.
Upon finishing his lectures at Notre Dame, Professor Gilson will go to Marquette University where he will deliver ’his lecture on “Historical Research and the Future of Scholasticism.” From there', he plans to return to France.
A.S.M.E. Holds Fall Banquet
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will hold its annual faltban-quet, a steak dinner, at Club 66 Monday.
A field trip to the Carnegie IllinoisT Steel Corp, in Gary, Ind., occupied the group today. The Nov. 16 meeting was highlighted by a talk by Mr. Stan Smith, chief development engineer of the Bendix Products Division of the Bendix Aviation Corp. He spoke on “Carburetor Development Problems.”
Any mechanical and industrial engineers interested in joining the society should contact Bob Darling, membership chairman, in 268 Dillon.
Thirty ND Winners Begin Speed-Reading Courses
Thirty students at the University of Notre Dame may be able to cut their study time in half, thanks to a group of “speed-reading scholarships” accepted by the University.
Presented by the Foundation for Better- Reading, located in South Bend, the scholarships provide 20 hours of free instruction and scientific practice in good reading habits. The course will be spread out over four weeks and arranged to fit into each individual student’s class schedule. According to officials at the Foundation, the course is designed to double each student’s reading speed while maintaining comprehension.
The principle of the reading course is that most adults have never learned to read properly. -Instead of seeing whole,, phrases at once, their eyes jump irregm larly from word to word—or even from letter to letter. Furthermore, lots of people have formed the habit of stopping to re-read lines instead of gliding along smoothly without pauses.
One apparatus trains the student to read off groups of numbers which are flashed on a screen for speeds down to only a hundredth of a second. The number of digits is increased gradually, until he has become accustomed to 'reading a whole line of figures at one glance. Another machine prevents re-reading by sliding a panel down across the pages of a book as the student reads each line. ■
More than 250 Notre Dame students applied for the grants. The thirty men selected were chosen to represent Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors and Graduate students from all five colleges of the University, and of all aptitude levels.	;
Poll Sys+em Employed To Select Who's Who
Nominations are being accepted for the Notre Dame entries in- Who’s Who in American Colleges for 1950-51. Due to criticism of the Student Council’s past method of selecting candidates, the Council will this year use a poll system in naming ND selections.
Any student is eligible to submit the names of likely candidates. All nominations must be submitted no later than this Sunday to Room 300 Howard Hall. Selection of the 30 entries from these nominees will be made by the Student Council at its meeting Monday evening.
Candidacy is open to Juniors, Seniors and graduate students. All nominations must include the nominee’s name and address, his college and major, his years in college and a maximum list of four qualifications for candidacy.
Each of the Student Council’s 17 members will make a list of 30 nominees from the aggregate list and score them on their qualifications. The scores vvill be totaled and the 30 highest nominees will be Notre Dame’s selections for- the 1950-51 edition.
Qualifications are based on the nominee’s collegiate activities. Council Secretary Jim Garvin pointed out: “Anyone can make nominations, so if you know of a worthy student, submit his qualifications.”
FINAL DANCE
The last Student Council dance before Christmas, the “Gridiron Finale,” will be held tomorrow in the Palais. Dancing from 8:30 to 11:30 p. m.; tickets are the usual $1.50 per couple.
Professor Waldemar Gurian Publishes Magazine Articles
According to Professor Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science, he has published a number of magazine articles during the present semester.
In successive issues of Commonweal, he tvrote articles on post-Korean problems, Soviet Foreign policy and the possibilities of avoiding another general war. Dr. Gurian also wrote a supplement on Nazism, Communism, Bolshevism and the Soviet for the Catholic Encyclopedia.
Along with these Dr. Gurian published two aritcles in German magazines: “Toynbee’s Time Machine,” and “The United States in World Affairs.” An article in French, “The Background of American Foreign Policy,” appeared in a recent issue of the magazine Etude.
12
The Scholastic
Fourth Natural Law Institute Week Away; Five Prominent Speakers Highlight Meeting
By DICK CODY, ’52
Jackson, District Judge Harold K. Medina, and Sir Frank Souskice, K.C., solicitor-general of Great Britain, are judging the national finals in New York. The winning team will receive the Samuel Seabury Award, the annual silver bowl prize. It must be won twice in suc-
Three addresses, one in the afternoon and two in the evening, will feature the opening day of the Natural Law Institute one week from today. Speaking at 2:30 p. m. will be George Sokolsky, widely-traveled newspaperman, while at night the Hon. Thomas J. Brogan and the Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., will deliver- addresses. The Institute will be held in the Law Auditorium.
On Dec. 9, the second day of the meeting, Felix Morley and Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., will speak at 10 a. m. The Institute will close that afternoon with a panel discussion by all five speakers.
Mr. Sokolsky, opening the Institute with an address on “The Source of Human Rights,” has been editor • of the Russian Daily News of Petrograd and assistant editor of the North China Star. Since 1940, he has been a syndicated columnist for the New York Sun and other-newspapers. The speaker has written many books, including Tinder Box of Asia, Labor’s Fight for Power, and The American Way of Life.
Right to Liberty
Friday night’s meeting will begin at 8 p. m. with the Hon. Thomas J. Brogan discussing “The Natural Law and the Right to Liberty.” Judge Brogan has had a long career in the field of jurisprudence. A graduate of St. Francis Xavier-College, he was admitted to the bar in 1912. He acted as associate justice in the New Jersey Supreme Court for 1932-33, and rose to chief justice of the court in 1933..
Following Judge Brogan’s talk, the Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., will discuss “The Natural Law and the Right to Property.” Judge Hutcheson rose from practising attorney to become mayor of Houston, Texas, in 1917-18. He has written several legal works, Law As Liberator, and Judgment Intuitive. At present he is chief judge, United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, of Houston, Texas.
Saturday morning Felix Morley will speak on “The Natural Law and the Right to Freedom of Expression.” Dr. Morley, nationally prominent editor and author, served five.years as president and editor of Hitman Events, Inc. He currently is performing editorial services in Washington, D. C.
His newspaper career has included
positions with the Washington Post, the Philadelphia Public Ledger, the Baltimore Sun, and the United Press. During World War II he was a consultant to the War Manpower Commission, and is the author of a number- of books.
“The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness” will be the topic of a talk by Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., following Dr. Morley. Father Ford is professor of moral theology at Weston College, Weston, Mass.
The Institute, sponsored by Alvin A. Gould, will close that afternoon at 2 p. m. with a panel discussion. All five speakers will participate and Mr. Sokolsky will act as monitor.
ND Moot Court Team Enters National Finals
Moot court activity in the College of Law is being climaxed yesterday and today in New York City, where the three-man ND team, which was runner-up to Chicago-Kent in the Seventh District finals weekend before last, is competing in the national finals.
Such dignitaries in the field of law as U. S. Supreme Court Justice Robert H.
Moot court victors lay plans for national finals after winning regional competition.
From left to right: Arthur Beaudette, Harold Van Tassel, and George Pletcher.
cession to be retired.
Accompanied by Professor Edward F. Barrett, the trio of senior barristers vying for the national laurels are: George Pletcher, Perryton, Texas; Harold Van Tassel, Ridgewood, N. J.; and Arthur Beaudette, Brookfield, Mass. These men earned the right to be Notre Dame’s first entry in intercollegiate moot court competition by being the three highest point makers in an interclass elimination competition as Juniors last spring.
In the District Seven meet they defeated DePaul and Marquette universities before bowing to Chicago-Kent’s lawyers in the last round. The winner had ousted the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago before they met ND.
This verbal tourney, held in Chicago, was judged by justices of the Illinois Supreme Court. Law schools from Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin were represented. The argument for debate was “The Legal Aspects of Rain Making.” Notre Dame was one of the teams taking the negative.
From the 42 schools competing in their respective federal district meets throughout the nation, 12 winners and runnerups are taking part in New York’s wrangling.
Dec. 1, 1950
11
iSofjann
ebasftian jpadj
1685-1750
In the year 1821 a 12-year-old boy was patiently examining a pile of musty manuscripts in the Royal Library of Berlin—the papers of a long-forgotten organist, dead for over seventy years. Little Felix Mendelssohn’s interest grew as he examined an original score. To his surprise he uncovered not a pompous, studious exercise, something justly buried in a library archives, but a piece he wanted to play, and then others like it. He had indeed discovered a creative genius whose compositions had only been known to a few pupils and to his family, a man, who in his time, had been appreciated only as an excellent organist —Johann Sebastian Bach.
Mendelssohn never forgot the music he discovered; he vowed that some day he would present the incomparable “St. Matthew Passion” in public performance. He felt that he must restore these works of genius to the world of music. At last, in 1829, after he was hailed as a brilliant musician, he fulfilled his wish at a private concert in Berlin. Risking his reputation as an artist, he astounded the scoifers who remembered Bach as a mere old-fashioned big-wig, stuffed with learning.
Rising Nationalism
But, although Mendelssohn devoted much of his time and energy to the revival of Bach’s compositions and although other great musicians hailed them, popular appreciation and recognition came slowly. Finally, in 1851, spurred on by the intensely rising nationalism of the period and jealous of the Handel society of England, the Germans founded a Bach society to rescue his many scattered manuscripts and publish them, thus spreading the recognition of their greatest composer.
Since then the gratitude of the world to the forgotten organist of Leipzig has steadily mounted. Today we think of Bach in superlatives—the most profound, original musical thinker the world has ever seen, the founder of modern music, the master of masters.
But Bach was hardly appreciated by his first employers. In fact, the pious burghers of Arnstadt very nearly fired their young city organist. They had given the poor orphan his first chance; but had he appreciated their kindness? Not at all. They discovered his independence was inquenchable. It was bad enough when he demanded a month’s
14
leave to travel to Lubeck to hear a famous organist in northern Germany. But he stayed four whole months! Besides, he came back with radical ideas. In the middle of the chorales he tested strange harmonies, throwing the congregation into scandalous confusion.
The elders also objected to his impious habit of sneaking out to the local beerhouse for momentary refreshment during the sermon. But worst of all, they
Johann Sebastian Bach
discovered a strange young woman in the organ loft, singing! Until then no woman had ever been allowed to sing in a respectable Lutheran choir. Tongues were wagging. It was an old story— the struggle between an artist and his public. Still, they had to admit that he was an exceptional organist, and so they only reprimanded him. Bach soon left.
The truth was that he planned marriage with the young lady in question; in sooth it was his cousin, Maria Barbara Bach. But the Arnstadt salary would hardly support a married organist. He competed for a better position at Mulhausen, and he won it. At last he was financially secure enough to marry. The yearly salary amounted to fifty dollars in our money, plus firewood, twelve bushels of corn and three pounds of fish. Johann Sebastian and Maria Bach joined their hands at Bornheim in 1707. Now the last prerequisite of the ancient organists’ guild-rules was fulfilled, and Bach’s apprenticeship was officially over. As a married man he was a master or
ganist, and his fame was spreading. So was his family.
After a theological dispute in Muhlhausen decided that embellished music - was pagan, Bach accepted an appointment as court organist, soloist and concertmaster at Weimar. Nine happy years he remained there, composing and playing, educating an ever growing family. Here he wrote much sacred music, following his belief that “the sole object of all music should be the glory of God.” As his collection of theological books testified, he was a religious man carefully schooled in Lutheranism. He began every manuscript with the letters “J.J.” which stood for “Jesus Juva — Jesus, help me!”
Under Formal Arrest
When he finally left Weimar, it was in disgrace. When the feeble head Kapell- . meister died he expected to succeed him, ~ but the appointment went to the old man’s son. Feeling slighted, he resigned from the Grand Duke’s service, an action . unheard of in the Germany of 1717. Bach was placed under formal arrest and imprisoned for a month. After that he was permitted to offer his resignation.
£
The goal of every musician was Leip- j zig—the Paris of Germany. While he § was at Cothen where Maria died, the | position of cantor of the famous Thom- i askirche school became vacant; he com- > peted for it. Although he was by far the	s
best man available, he was awarded the	y
job only after much hesitation. All the * most promising talent came to Leipzig, the most important center for Lutheran £ sacred music, to learn organ and composition. The cantor here was most important. But the post was far more dignified than lucrative.
Bach’s great fame as an oiganist now f was complete. However, he was still forced to suffer often from the pettiness g and narrow-mindedness of his superiors 5 who constantly angered him, little town dignitaries who self-righteously censured him. The cantor improvized, extempbr-ized, modulated, refused to play ordinary music, refused to go modern. What & exasperated them most was that their S ■•-SSfy employee obstinately refused to change and ignored their threats. Many times Bach was disgusted too, but he was W forced to remain, since by his second S wife he had thirteen children, making a
(Continued on Page 31)
The Scholastic





Former Broadway Hit and Pulitzer Prize Winner 'Harvey' Next on ND Theatre Sched
By PAT O’MALLEY, ’54
William J. Eisen, director of the University Theatre has announced that the next attraction will be Harvey and not Gold in the Hills, previously announced as the second production of the 1950-51 season. Harvey is the famous comedy hit that captured the imagination of Broadway theater-goers for over four years, and a Pulitzer Prize as well. This is a play about an imaginary rabbit, 6'1 J/G" tall, whose constant companionship with what is probably the world’s most ingratiating tippler, has created more laughter than any play of modern times.
The unseen rabbit hero of this comedy wasn’t born; he was discovered. Elwood P. Dowd, his discoverer, is a calm, lovable bachelor, given to sociable — and constant—drinking. Elwood has traded the reality of the world, which irked him, for the illusion of a rabbit; and he has no regrets.
For his widowed sister and her eligible
daughter, however, Elwood’s companion has distinct social embarrassments. Driven once too often, Sister decides it is time to enroll Elwood in a sanitarium. But Sister, who isn’t so unlike Elwood that she hasn’t had glimpses of Harvey the Hare herself, winds up being confined in place of her brother. From then on, madness really takes over.
Decidedly the most popular laugh hit of the post-war theater, Harvey has delighted audiences all over the world, in addition to chalking up a record 1775 performances on Broadway. Harvey was the winner of the Pulitzer Prize for the best native drama produced during the year, and the $1,000,000 paid by Universal-International was the highest price ever paid for the film rights to a play.
The actor who will play the rich leading role of Harvey’s bibulous companion, Elwood P. Dowd, a part played at various times by Frank Fay, James Stew
art, Joe E. Brown, Rudy Vallee and James Dunn, will be announced shortly.
After six years of professional production the non-professional rights of Harvey have just been released. The University Theatre has the privilege of being the first non-professional group to be granted production authorization in this territory.
Tryouts will be held in Room 241 of the Main Building beginning at 3:15 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Frosh Name Quartet To Hold Class Office
With all the talk about a mandate of the people, the Freshman class did a little mandating of its own in the recent election. Of the four officers chosen, three campaigned on the United Halls ticket, while one ran independently.
John Reidy, who was elected class president, led the successful United Halls trio into office. A resident of St. Ed’s Hall, Reidy garnered 253 out of the 611 votes cast for president, Tuesday, Nov. 21.
Vice-president Joe Gallagher, running as an independent, was the only winner not of the United Halls Party. Living in Breen-Phillips, Gallagher received more than half of the votes cast for vice-president, a total of 343 out of 625 votes.
Bill Sullivan was the second of the successful United Halls candidates. The new Freshman secretary, who received 273 out of a possible 597 votes, lives in Farley Hall.
The last winner was John Reynolds, who was elected treasurer. From Breen-Phillips, Reynolds saw 335 of the 582 votes cast, boost him into office.
Among the hot-on-the-heels parties were the Frosh and Square Deal quartets. Joe Katchick, the United Halls candidate for vice-president, received 104 votes.
Running for president, Tom Schoen led the Frosh Party by receiving 226 votes. His running-mates were John Lattner, who received 122 votes for vice-president; Joe Bertrand, the secretarial candidate, who picked up 214 votes, and Jack Burns, who received 167 votes for treasurer.
Leading the Square Deal Party was Jim Lantis, the presidential candidate, who collected 132 votes. He was followed by Michael Harrigan, with 56 vice-presidential votes, James Bertrand, who received 95 votes while running for secretary, and Richard Crowl, who picked up 95 votes for treasurer.
Slightly over 50 per cent of the class casted ballots.
Dec. 1, 1950
World Affairs Expert To Speak Wednesday
Professor Raymond Aron of the Insti-tut des Etudes Politiques in Paris, will lecture next Wednesday, at 8 p. m. in Room 101 of the Law Building, on the subject, “France in World Affairs.” The chairman will be Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C.
Professor Aron is not only one of the best known French sociologists and political scientists, but also a brilliant analyst of current problems. His regular articles in Figaro receive a wide attention. He has recently analyzed the basic trends of the political crisis of our time in two articles on World War II published by the Table Ronde (Paris), October and November, 1950. He has supported vigorously a close cooperation between France and the United States, opposing recommendations for France to stay neutral in the conflict with the Soviet Union.
On Dec. 13, at 8 p. m., in Room 101 of the Law Building, Dr. Waldemar Gurian will give a public lecture on the subject, “The Soviet Union in World . Affairs.” The chairman will be Rev.
Raymond Cour, c.s.c.
NFCCS Begins Work On Chapter Constitution
To begin work on the formation of a permanent constitution for the campus NFCCS Apostolic Chapter, a special committee met for the first time last night.
The constitutional committee, presided over by Chapter Chairman Buck Hennigan, consists of representatives of the NFCCS Council and the four student religious clubs. Organization has been one of the main topics discussed at the last two Monday meetings of the Apostolic Chapter.
Among other plans reviewed at Monday’s meeting was the Liturgy Club’s suggestion to sponsor a pre-Christmas holy hour. This project will be taken up at the chapter’s next meeting Monday afternoon.
Argentina's Five-Year Plan To Be Topic of Colloquium
Under the sponsorship of the Program of Latin-American Studies a colloquium on “The Argentina Five-Year Plan” will be held Tuesday at 8 p. m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. Professor Thomas E. Downey of the Department of History will lead the meeting and will be joined by other members of the faculty participating in the program.
Dean Clarence E. Manion
Bar Association Appoints Law Dean to Committee
Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law has been appointed to membership on the American Bar Association’s special committee to study Communist tactics and objectives.
The committee, appointed by the president of the American Bar Association, is designed to study Communist tactics, strategy and objectives, particularly as they relate to the obstruction of proper court procedure and law enforcement.
Other members of the five-man committee, which results from a resolution adopted by the Assembly and House of Delegates of the American Bar Association, include Austin F. Canfield, chairman of the committee, Washington, D. C.; James Madison Blackwell, New York, N. Y.; Tracy E. Griffin, Seattle, Wash.; and Egbert L. Haywood, Durham, N. C.
Father Lauck Leads Parley At Catholic Art Convention
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, c.s.c., of the Department of Art, led a discussion on the arts as a form of the apostolate at the 1950 convention of the Catholic Art Association. He also demonstrated the art of sculpture in wood and exhibited carvings in oak, cherry, redwood, and other woods.
The meeting, held at Fontbonne College in St. Louis from Nov. 22 to 25, featured group participation in liturgical ceremonies. Guest speakers included Right Rev. Msgr. Martin B. Hellriegel of St. Louis and Sister Esther, s.P., of St. Mary of the Woods College, the latter being a pioneer figure in American sacred art and founder of the Association.
Father Mullahy Talks On Dual Sides of Love
If we wish the greatest benefits from the Christian life, “we must see it in reference to love,” Rev. Bernard Mullahy, c.s.c., Assistant Provincial, told Liturgy Club members at their weekly meeting Sunday in Cavanaugh Hall.
He continued by pointing out the twofold nature of love, union and sacrifice. The Liturgy emphasizes the first in the Christmas cycle (Incarnation) and the second in the Easter period, (Redemption) .
In Our Lord’s effort to achieve union with us by conquering time, Father Mullahy said that He employs the two movements of our planet. Each day is blessed by the Mass being said in some part of the world. The Liturgical Year (first Sunday of Advent to last Sunday after Pentecost) sanctifies the earth’s yearly trip around the sun.
Father Mullahy also explained the meaning of the Christmas Liturgy and stressed Advent’s three-fold aspect: yearning for Christ’s coming, penance, and desire for union with Him. “Let your models be Isaiah, St. John the Baptist, and Mary,” he said.
Dr. Schweigert to Talk Before Biology Seminar
Dr. B. S. Schweigert, Head of the Division of Biochemistry and Nutrition of the American Meat Institute Foundation, University of Chicago, will address the biology seminar Dec. 5. He will discuss the physiological role of vitamin B12 and associated factors in relation to cel-lulai- metabolism.
Since he received his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1946, Dr. Schweigert has published more than fifty papers. Most of his investigations have been concerned with the B groups of vitamins and amino acids. His versatility is indicated by the fact that he has published papers dealing with the effects of nutrition on reproduction and lactation and also dental caries.
He is the editor of the Nutrition, Diet, Vitamins, General Metabolism, Growth section in Biological Abstracts.
Marketing Club Meets
Members of the Marketing Club last night heard Mr. H. Jones, vice-president 1 of Bendix Home Appliances, speak at i their meeting.	|
The group has selected Dec. 14 for 1 their club banquet at Alby’s. At this | time Mr. John C. Brennan, one of the | three vice-presidents of the Great Atlan- | tic and Pacific Tea Co., will address members.
16
The Scholastic
Eliminations Start in Junior Moot Court's Initial Round
Sixteen junior barristers emerged last week from the first round of the College of Law’s moot court competition, which will eventually produce a team of three to represent Notre Dame in intercollegiate tourney next autumn.
There were eight case arguments in all, with 32 men participating— four to a case. The arguments were judged according to the participant’s written brief, their arguments in general, and their answers to the judges. The two winners in each case were not necessarily picked as a side, although this was predominately true.
Two more of these elimination parleys will be held before the final competition in the latter part of June, the winners of which are to receive the Dean’s Award, besides making the ’51 intercollegiate squad. The June finals are to be in connection with the Law Association’s annual convention here at that time so so that high-calibre critical judging may be afforded the cases.
The other two rounds are tentatively scheduled for the neighborhood of Feb. 1 and May 1.
Engineer for Westinghouse Will Speak on Atomic Energy
“Atomic Energy—Tool or Weapon” will be the subject of an address by Mr. Marvin V. Maxwell of the Westinghouse Electric Corp, at the joint meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals and the Michiana chaptei- of the American Welding Society.
The meeting, scheduled for Dec. 13, combines a dinner in the Dining Hall, starting at 6:30 p. m., and a technical session, at 8 p. m. in Room 5 of the Engineering Building. Cost of the dinner is 81.75 and reservations must be made before noon, Dec. 12.
Mr. Maxwell, assistant northwestern engineering and service manager for Westinghouse of Chicago, has had wide experience in the design of electrical equipment, power plants and transmission and distributing systems.
A graduate of the University of Missouri, he has taken part in the design of such hydroelectric power plants as that of the Grand Coulee on the Columbia River.
The engineer’s talk will cover some of the basic concepts of nuclear energy and touch upon reactors, bombs and the atomic bomb. It will be supplemented with a movie, Operation Crossroads, and a few comments on the Bikini project.
Dec. 1,1950
BASKETBALL GAMES
For the Franklin, Anderson, and Wisconsin games, Dec. 6, 9, and 11, respectively, students will be admitted upon presentation of Identification-Athletic cards at the door. Athletic cards issued to wives of students for football will not be honored for basketball and should be returned to the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
All varsity games will begin at 8 p. m. All seats, except those in the north balcony, will be held for students until 7:30 p. m. Space not utilized by the student body at 7:30 will be sold as general admission in the boxoffice at west entrance, priced at SI.00. No general admission tickets will be sold in advance.-
There will be a preliminary game before all varsity contests between the freshmen and reserves at 6:30 p. m. The west entrance will be open at that time. Other doors will be open by 7:00 p. m. To facilitate admission, please use the following, entrances:
Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanagh, Zahm, St. Edward’s, Vetville— NORTH DOOR.
Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Dillon, Off-Campus—SOUTH DOOR.
Badin, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey —WEST DOOR.
There is a limited number of reserved seats for public sale to games both home and away. Please inquire at the Ticket Offiffice, Breen-Phillips Hall.
—TICKET COMMITTEE
Mediaeval Institute Receives Reproductions of Rare Bible
An elaborate volume of reproductions from a 14th-century Hungarian Bible has been presented to the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame by Congressman Christopher G. McGrath, of New York.
The gift was announced by the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute, who described the Bible as the Nekcsei-Lipocz edition — a rare manuscript preserved in the Library of Congress. The volume presented to Notre Dame includes one full-size color reproduction of a page from the highly-illuminated manuscript, along with numerous black-and-white plates. It was edited by Meta Harrsen, Librarian of the Pierpont-Morgan Library of New York.
The Mediaeval Institute was established at Notre Dame in 1946 to encourage research and advanced study in the language, philosophy, theology, and general culture of the Middle Ages.
Hold 2 Pre-Holiday Novenas As Christmas Season Nears
Two annual pre-holiday novenas mark the few remaining days before the beginning of Christmas vacation. The novena for purity began Tuesday and will continue through Dec. 6.
The following day the Christmas novena for parents will begin. Devotions will end on Dec. 15, in order that those students leaving that weekend will be able to complete the nine-day period.
In addition to the usual offering of Masses, Communions, rosaries, and visits, the Blessed Sacrament will be exposed in Sacred Heart Church from 8 a. m. to 5 p. m. during the novena.	.
The campus YCS organization, sponsor of the parents’ novena, will canvass the halls to assign half-hour periods of adoration.
Spiritual bouquet cards will be made available to the students to be completed and presented to their parents, relatives, or guardians.	-	•
First Aid Course Covers Atomic Defense Methods
A first aid course, including atomic defense measures as approved by the National Security Resources Board, is now being conducted by Lt. Robert S. Grear under the sponsorship of the Red Cross, St. Joseph County Chapter.
Classes, lasting two hours, are being conducted in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial. The first was held yesterday, while the second will take place Monday at 6:30 p. m. Future dates of the course will be announced Monday night.
There is no admission charge for this, the approved and recognized 18-hour course in standard first aid. Lt. Grear is of the Notre Dame class of ’32.
Professor Sessler Holds One-Man Exhibit of Oils
As part of a program to celebrate the annual National Art Week, a one-man exhibition of oil paintings by Professor Stanley S. Sessler was displayed in the galleries of the South Bend Progress Club, from Nov. 12 through the 21. The show consisted of landscapes, portraits, and still-life, the work of the past 10 years around South Bend and vicinity.
A reception and tea was held on the opening Sunday afternoon, and general attendance and interest was enthusiastic. Mr. Sessler was guest on Eleanor Moore’s radio program Nov. 9 over station WgBT and was interviewed^ about his show.
17
Were Working Too
ND’s Bellhops and Bakers. Busboys and Bandmen Parody: “We Don’t Mind When the Sun Don’t Shine”
Tom Obrecht reels off the list of flavors
to customers at Don's Fountain Lunch.
By DAN BRENNAN, ’51
"Fill 'er up and check the oil." Bob Prue
John Scheibelhut works in a white collar.
Balancing class hours, study time and outside activities into a happy proportion is the big problem facing Joe Student prior to every preregistration period. Scholastic efforts, both in and out of the classroom, are considered taxing . enough on the average collegiate. He wants no extra work of any form.
But somehow Notre Dame isn’t filled with a completely average student body. There are some guys around here who actually work for no credits, no averages and take no cuts. These are the boys who hurry out of class, race down- . town and rush behind the counter, gas pump or what-have-you, just to earn a couple of bucks. Imagine that! And j some of them actually like it!	*
For instance, Tom Obrecht, an AB junior from Lansing, Michigan, works in Don’s Fountain Lunch on Portage Avenue. His job consists of helping out during the supper hour, six days a week. He waits on tables, jerks sodas, and acts as his own bus boy. If the rush is big enough he may even wash dishes or peel potatoes when the supply of either runs dangerously low.
Besides the dinner business, Don’s also has a big package ice cream sale. Tom’s pet peeve is the fellow who comes in at the height of the dinner rush and orders a couple of quarts of hand-packed ice cream. Filling this order takes a long time and results in a jam for tables and in the kitchen.
Don’s is a neighborhood gathering place and about a dozen Notre Dame students who live in the locality are regular customers. When any of them come in, it is the signal for some friendly banter with Tom and either Don Newman, the proprietor, or Jack Bright, the straw boss.
Tom likes his job and says that the hours are just right for him: no interference with his normal activities.
Also in the neighborhood are some filling stations. At two of these Notre Dame students are employed. Bob Prue, of 2005 Beverly Place, South Bend, works at Meadimber’s Shell Service every afternoon from one or two o’clock until clos-ing-'at eight or nine in the evening. Bob, a commerce Senior, says that he can always find time to study and to relax.
‘ The Scholastic
18
Just up Portage Avenue, Bob Kuntz, 1725 N. College St., South Bend, is employed by the Viaduct Standard Service. Bob is the son of Professor Leo Kuntz, of the Department of Education. He works several hours a day as an attendant. Kuntz says that by careful budgeting of his time he is able to go to school, work, and yet have time for study and extra-curricular activities. The whole key, he says is to know exactly what to do during every minute of the day.
On the whole, Bob likes his job, but on some days the customers kind of get him down. One day, for instance, when it was raining cats and dogs, a lady drove into the station. Instead of parking under the canopy, she parked in the open. When Bob went out to see what she wanted she asked him to check the water. He did, wondering quietly what the lady thought he was, a new species of fish maybe? He was soaked but the lady was a satisfied customer.
The service station jobs pay an average of about a dollar an hour.
John Scheibelhut, a commerce Junior from South Bend, has an unusual job. He works in his father’s real estate office. John’s chief duties are showing houses to prospective clients and doing some office work. He holds a temporary state license as a real estate salesman and tries to make all the sales he can on his own. Scheibelhut’s chief working hours are in the afternoon and on Saturdays.
Another uncommon job is shared by Jim Kingsley, Philadelphia, Pa., and Dan Brennan of South Bend. They play records for the Wired Music Service operated by radio station WSBT. This service is available to restaurants, hotels, stores, offices, and so forth. The music in Clark’s Michigan Street restaurant originates here.
All this job consists of is playing transcriptions for 25 minutes every half hour, resting five minutes and starting over. The toughest part of the work is trying to please all of the subscribers. Fox’ instance, a restaurant will call up and ask for peppy, bright music. When this starts, somebody else will demand restful jnusic.
Brennan works from 9:00 a. m. to 3:00 p. m., and Kingsley from 3:00 to 9:00 p. m., Sundays only. During the week there is a regular operator on duty.
Music major Dick Vander Hagen, of South Bend has a job right in line with his interests. He plays the saxophone in Tony Rulli’s orchestra in and around South Bend. Rulli’s band usually plays at the Avalon or at Reid’s Casino, dancing spots in Michigan.
Several years ago Dick had his own combo which played around town for various affairs. One time he played for a riot. It happened this way. Dick was
Dec. 1, 1950
engaged to play for a wedding reception in a certain hall. Everything went along smoothly until the bride’s father reached for his glass of beer. The groom’s father reached for his glass at the same time. It was the same glass. They started arguing over whose beer it really was. Soon they came to blows. Before long all the relatives on both sides were in the fracas. Dick and his band played “The
Bill Gorbitz bellhops at LaSalle Hotel.
Baker Carl Strebinger looks fondly at the
batch of pastry he takes from the oven.
Star' Spangled Banner” to try to stop the fight. It didn’t work. Three carloads of police finally broke up the riot.
Carl Strebinger, a commerce Senior from South Bend has a goody job. He is a baker. Carl works for Jahnke’s Bakery on South Michigan Street, where he mixes icing for rolls and prepares the cookie dough. A veteran of five years in (Continued on Page 32)
Jim Kingsley provides wire music service.
19
Knights Name Tom Kigin Head of Bengal Bouts
Thomas E. Kigin, a senior majoring in finance, has been named general chairman of this year’s Bengal Bouts, which will again be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. The yearly tournament will be held from March 5 to 8, inclusive, with the finals slated for
Tom Kigin
March 10. Once again the fieldhouse will be the scene of the jousts.
Assisting Kigin in the project, which last year netted $4,600 for the Bengal missions, are Bill Hubbert, of Arts and Letters, as program chairman and Bob Finnegan, of the College of Law, as ticket chairman. Fighters will begin training after Christmas under direction of Mr. Dominic Napolitano of the Department of Physical Education.
Madden Is Named to Head Student Musical
The appointment of Henry Madden as manager of the student musical, “Faith, Hope and Hilarity,” to be presented on campus next semester, was voted by the Student Council at its meeting last Monday. As a Council member he will be in charge of the finances for the Council, which is underwriting the production, in addition to his job of promoting the show.
Representatives of the Engineering students appeared before the Council to seek approval of the date for the Engineers’ Ball. They told the Council that since the Engineers are such a busy group, they would need all the time they could get in order to prepare for the affair. They were told to submit their budget and proposed date for the Ball at the next Council meeting. ,
Another guest at the meeting was Walter Johnson of Mishawaka. He spoke on behalf of the American Youth Hostels, offering his services to the Council to introduce this inexpensive type of European travel to any interested students. Mr. Johnson traveled through southwestern Europe by bicycle this last summer and has movies of his trip which will show how the hostel sytem works.
The Student Council will decide how best to make Mr. Johnson’s talents available to those who might be interested in this method of touring Europe.
Other business of the meeting included reports on the redecoration of the Student Council office, and on the discontinuation of the Blue Circle service on the Dixie Highway-St. Mary’s traffic light. •
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Dec. 2—red—St. Bibiana. Virgin. Mass of feast. Gloria, 2nd Collect “Defend us,” 3rd any Collect.
Sunday, Dec. 3—violet—1st Sunday of Advent. (First day of Church’s year). Special Mass. No Gloria in this or other seasonal Masses during Advent, 2nd Collect St. Francis Xavier, Creed, Trinity Preface, “Let us bless the Lord” at end of Mass.	"
Monday, Dec. 4—white—St. Peter Chrysologus, Bishop-Teacher. Special Mass. No Gloria, 2nd Collect 1st Sunday of Advent, 3rd St. Barbara, Creed.
Tuesday, Dec. 5 — violet — Weekday of Advent. Mass of last Sunday. No Gloria or Creed, 2nd Collect of St. Sabbas, 3rd of Our Lady, omit Alleluia verse (after Gradual), ordinary Preface.
Wednesday, Dec. 6 — white,— St. Nicholas, Bishop. Mass of feast. Gloria, 2nd Collect of 1st Sunday in Advent.
Thursday, Dec. 7—white—St. Ambrose, Bishop and Teacher. Mass of feast. Gloria, 2nd Collect of 1st Sunday of Advent, 3rd Collect and Last Gospel. Vigil Immaculate Conception, Creed. .
or
(in Low Mass only) Vigil Immaculate Conception. No Gloria or Creed, 2nd Collect St. Ambrose, 3rd of 1st Sunday of Advent, ordinary Preface.
or
Mass of Christ the Eternal High Priest may be said.
Rochester Club Discusses Christmas Vacation Plans
At a special meeting of the Rochester 4 Club, last Monday evening, plans were discussed for the Christmas vacation. A proposal of the New York Central for special travel rates at Christmas time was dropped because the number of men willing to go was not sufficient to meet the requirement of the New York Central.
Tickets for the Christmas Dance, Dec. 29, may be picked up in Room 111 Sorin Hall after Dec. 5. A time and place has not as yet been announced for the annual Alumni-Student Stag Party. The •. bowling and basketball teams presented reports to the members.
Friday, Dec. 8—white—(no abstinence) Immaculate Conception of Our Lady. (Holy Day of Obligation.) Mass of feast. Gloria, 2nd Collect of 1st Sunday of Advent, Creed, Preface of Our Lady, inserting: “on the Immaculate Conception.” This Preface used for next seven days unless otherwise noted.
Saturday, Dec. 9—white—In Octave of Immaculate Conception. Mass as yesterday, with 3rd Collect of Holy Spirit.
Sunday, Dec. 10—violet—2nd Sunday of Advent. Special Mass. 2nd Collect Immaculate Conception, 3rd St. Melchiades, Creed, Trinity Preface.
Monday, Dec. 11—white—St. Da-masus, Pope. Special Mass. Gloria, 2nd Collect Immaculate Conception, 3rd of 2nd Sunday of Advent, Creed, Apostles’ Preface.
Tuesday, Dec. 12—white—In Octave of Immaculate Conception. Mass as Dec. 8, with 2nd Collect of 2nd Sunday of Advent and 3rd Collect of the Holy Spirit.
Wednesday, Dec. 13 — red — St. Lucy, Virgin. Special Mass. Gloria, 2nd Collect Immaculate Conception, 3rd of 2nd Sunday of Advent, Creed, Preface of Our Lady.
Thursday, Dec. 14—white—In Octave of Immaculate Conception. Mass as Dec. 12.
Friday, Dec. 15—white—(a) Last day of Octave of Immaculate Conception, Mass as Dec. 8, with 2nd Collect of 2nd Sunday of Advent.
20
The Scholastic
Community Leaders Hold First Meeting
Rev. John J. Cavanagh, c.s.c., president of the University, has announced the acceptance of membership on a new President’s Committee by 89 community leaders of South Bend and near-by cities.
Speaking at the group’s first dinner meeting in the faculty dining hall Tuesday night, Father Cavanaugh stated the organization’s purpose is to heighten the service which Notre Dame can make to the local community and to keep community leaders informed on the University’s various activities.
Meetings, at which the president will speak informally, will be held periodically. Mr. E. M. Morris, chairman of the board of Associates Investment Co., has accepted the chairmanship of the committee.
Mr. Bradford Storey, investment counselor of Brundage, Storey, and Rose, New York, also addressed the assembly. It is planned to bring some national or international figure to South Bend to address the group at each gathering.
The gratifying response by the people of South Bend and vicinity to the recent Greater Notre Dame campaign was, said Father Cavanaugh, the primary cause for the committee’s organization. In that drive the South Bend citizenry pledged some $500,000 to the University toward the construction of a new Science Building.
As a result of the concrete interest in Notre Dame displayed, it was decided to invite some of the community’s leaders to become bettei' acquainted with the University. In this way, Notre Dame can also learn of new ways in which it can be of service to South Bend.
The Notre Dame President’s Committee is the second such group to be formally organized, the first being formed a year ago in New York. Eventually it is planned to establish such bodies in leading cities throughout the country.
National Teachers’ Exam Planned for February 17
The National Teacher Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Service, will be given at testing centers throughout the United States on Feb. 17, 1951.
At the one-day testing session a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in General Culture, Mental Abilities and Basic Skills, and Professional Information; and one or two of nine Optional Examinations, designed to demonstrate mastery of sub
ject matter to be taught. The college which a candidate is attending or the school system in which he is seeking employment will advise him whether he must offer the National Teacher Examinations and which of the tests he should take.
Application forms, and a Bulletin of Information describing registration procedure and containing sample test questions, may be obtained from school superintendents or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. A completed application, accompanied by the proper examination fee, should reach the ETS office not later than Jan. 19, 1951.
Father Schlitzer Discusses Church Stand on Evolution
A lecture, sponsored by the Notre Dame Geology Club, was given last Wednesday night by the Rev. A. L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., assistant professor of religion.
Father Schlitzer discussed the stand of the Catholic Church on evolution. He considered the recent encyclical of Pope Pius XII, “Human Generis,” and the evidence for evolution uncovered by the sciences of geology and paleontology.
A question and discussion period from the floor followed Father Schlitzer’s lecture.
ATTENTION
Next Friday the SCHOLASTIC will publish its annual Football Issue. If any student wishes to get extra copies he may purchase them at 50c each in the SCHOLASTIC office, in the basement of Farley Hall.
Capt. Daly Calls Candidates For ND Varsity Rifle Team
Captain Daly, USMC, called for volunteers for the varsity rifle team. “Anyone can learn to fire a rifle in competition. It takes no particular physical prowess. Just a lot of practice and work.” Tryouts will be held Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons of next week at the Stadium rifle range. There are some billets open for the collegiate season which will begin in January.
The University rifle team anticipates competing in the National Collegiate meet in the Spring.
The varsity team will fire against Michigan State, Harvard, Nebraska, Pittsburgh, Rutgers, Northwestern, Ohio State, and other' schools in the National Collegiate division.
YEARS AGO
—By BOB FINNEY, ’53
Fifty Years Ago
From the Dec. 1, 1900, Scholastic: The University completed a system of waterworks that was capable of delivering 2000 gallons of water per minute in case of fire. . . . The debris remaining from the fire which had destroyed the gym a few weeks before was cleared away and work was begun on a new fieldhouse on the same site. . . . Notre Dame beat Rush Medical College, 5-0, after losing to Michigan, 7-0, the week before, and finished the season with another 5-0 win over Physicians and Surgeons College of Chicago. . . . The final totals for the football season included six wins (Goshen, Englewood H. S., Howard Park of South Bend, Cincinnati U., Rush Medical, and Physicians and Surgeons College), three losses (Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin) and a tie with Beloit.
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the Dec. 4, 1925? Scholastic: Construction began on the new freshman hall, to be named Lyons Hall. . . . Pan, the University literary magazine, made its first appearance of the year. . . . The Dame began its drive for subscriptions for the 1926 annual. The price of the book was $5. . . . Nebraska beat the Irish 17-0 to finish a season which included six wins (Lombard, Beloit, Minnesota, Carnegie Tech, Northwestern and. Georgia Tech), two losses (Army and Nebraska), and one tie (Penn State).
Ten Years Ago
From the Nov. 29, 1940, SCHOLASTIC: Out of a total of 1013 pink slips given out at mid-semester, 433 went to freshmen. . . . The annual Knights of Columbus vaudeville show was to be held Dec. 10 in Washington Hall, with prizes of $30, $20, and $10 for the best entertainers. . . . According to the student directory just off the press there were 34 Kellys on campus to lead the “most-common name” department. Three other Irish names, Murphy, Sullivan, and O’Brien, followed. . . . The Irish lost to Iowa, 6-0, and Northwestern, 20-0, on successive Saturdays. They still faced the season’s finale with USC at Los Angeles.
Dec. 1, 1950
21
Meet Me
At the Huddle
Close by the protective wing of Washington Hall and looking for all the world like the misbegotten offspring of the Hall and Old Gym lies the matchboxlike Huddle. The name is quite appropriate because during business hours customers manage to pack themselves within its four walls in a manner that would make even a sardine shudder.
In this melting pot of the campus formality ceases to exist. Professors, secretaries and students chat freely over their morning coffee, oblivious to the wailings of Frankie Layne and Nat Cole’s “Orange Colored Sky.” Coffee is always a big item on the sales list— between 1,000 and 1,200 cups are served every day, the amount varying with the temperature and previous night’s celebrating.
Indeed, the Huddle’s sales would make Mr. Walgreen gape in amazement. Nearly 1,600 people pass through the little pillbox’s portals every day, stopping long enough to purchase anything from tooth paste to Tootsie Rolls, pretzels to pipes. The average sale of ice cream totals 70 gallons per-day in the form of cones, sundaes and shakes. The Huddle
serves as Notre Dame’s own Nedick’s for 300 people daily, though the number of luncheons undergoes a great increase each Friday for some unknown reason.
Exact date of the construction has been lost somewhere in those yellow bricks, but it is agreed that the Huddle was born somewhere about the time of the first World War. In the early years it was under the care of the brothers, and dispensed only candy, cigarettes, tobacco and bottled soda pop. Neither ice cream nor toilet articles were sold then. In those years it was half its present size, having to share the building with a shoe shop, jeweler, and Western Union office.
Tourists and visitors to the campus have carried tales home to their friends of the “prison at Notre Dame” after one glance at the bars over the Huddle’s windows. The archives make no mention of the building being used as a Bastille. Quite the contrary, the bars are meant to keep too eager clientelle out. It was during the “roaring twenties” that many students found it prudent to wait until nightfall to obtain their candy. Decreased stocks brought the
bars, limiting the service to paying cus- / tomers only.	\
The Huddle employs six women for ", full time work and the same number of students on a part time basis, all J under the supervision of Mr. Alan Gear. Mr. Gear also assists in the operations of the concession stands in and around i the stadium for home football games.
Contrary to popular belief, there is ( not a gambling room, bookie joint or dis- v tillery on the second floor but only a -tailor shop, and an extremely busy one ' at that. It is not operated for the stu- i dents but handles work for the priests < and brothers on campus, turning out 500	;
to 600 cassocks yearly, products of a r full time staff of six.	<
When the Student Union is built near ? the Circle, the Huddle will pass into the 1 archives. The need for more space is pressing, but the little building staggers along day after day, swelling its beams as the crowd passes capacity, straining * to take care of more and more customers. How long this can go on no one	,
knows. The Old Gym was built in 1898.	;
Like father, like son ...
—John Chavanne, ’52	;
Academy Elects Bender Second Time as President
Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing, has been elected to a one-year term as president of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences. Professor Bender, who was president of the Academy in 1941-42, is the first member in the history of the organization to hold the presidency twice.
The Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences includes teachers from every college and university in Indiana. Purpose of the Academy is to encourage research in the social studies and to promote understanding and cooperation among the social sciences.
Professor Bender, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1931, was named Head of the Department of Marketing in 1945. He was instrumental in the organization of the Notre Dame World Trade Conference, which annually brings together educators and business men to discuss current problems of overseas commerce.
22
Those who sack in consider Huddle best spot on campus, especially ten minutes before class. The customers aren't fresh-air fiends — pic was taken in summer.
me ocnoiastic 35
Cardinal Suhard the Optimist
That there is a crisis facing the modern world is evident to even the most unobserving persons. Its manifestations are all about us. In little more than a generation the people of the world have suffered two great wars and a paralyzing .economic depression, acute social unrest, and violent religious persecution. Casualty lists, draft calls and ominous newspaper headlines have brought home some realization of the crisis in a more personal way.
However, the nature of the crisis and the chief problems that it raises are less obvious. Some philosophers such as Spengler believe that Western civilization is on the way to an inevitable ruin. There seems to be a good argument for such pessimism. But at least one great person has found cause to be optimistic. He is the late Cardinal Suhard, Archbishop of Paris.
In his little book, Growth, or Decline, Cardinal Suhard made a penetrating analysis of the crisis to the root of the world’s problem. He found it to be the separation of spiritual reality from natural reality in modern minds. The truth of his conclusion is seen in the modern indifference to theology and metaphysics and in the inability of scientists, engineers, sociologists, historians and others to relate their specialized knowledge to other branches of knowledge. College students and even professors often have no meeting ground for conversation other than sports, sex, and other tap room subjects.
From the root of the trouble Cardinal Suhard outlines a general Christian solution and the method of adapting it in the practical order. The answer is a reaffirmation in modern terms of traditional Christian truths. These truths have been accepted by all practicing Catholics since the time of Christ. The radical method that he suggests for infusing these truths in modern civilization is suited to the changing needs of our time. It is the application of Catholic Action to the task of infusing a Christian spirit into our modern institutions. It rests upon the revealed truth that all of us, layman and priest, are essential members of Christ’s Mystical Body therefore it behooves all 'without distinction of persons to know, love and serve God in the capacity in which we find ourselves as entities of humanity.
The first task of Catholic college men is to seek to understand pure truth and disinterested science for their own sake, and not for any apologetic reason. They should go beyond their field of speciali-
By CHUCK O’BRIEN, ’51
zation in order to integrate the truths of all branches of knowledge into a more complete vision. All their efforts should be ruled by the spirit of charity and truth to the extent of fairminded and effective cooperation with all truthseekers.
It is a fact that in our Catholic universities not every student intends to be a scholar or a leader of thought. Their responsibility is one of public service to Church and State. It is our duty to assist Christ’s redemptive mission on earth by perfecting ourselves and by improving the natural conditions which help others receive divine graces.
In the Cardinal’s scheme of things, Catholic colleges of necessity are the training grounds for our much-needed Christian leadership. If Catholic colleges fail, where else can our leaders learn Christian principles and their modern application?
Unfortunately, in the past many graduates of our colleges have failed to give effective leadership to their communities or professions. They did not command the professional respect enjoyed by some less principled men. To be a good Catholic means to be a lawyer, dentist, or scholar as well. As Cardinal Suhard wrote: “The children of light are too often less clever than the sons of darkness. This condition does not spring from any precept of the Lord. To be late with an idea may be a fact; it is not a virtue.”
To become real leaders of this world the “children of light” must be as quick with a fact as with a principle. The modern world has great respect for the ex-
pert. To lead the world toward a more Christian way of life Catholic scholars must command the world’s respect. The commerce or engineering student is the man who must adapt and apply Hie ideas and the research of the scholar to his profession. It is important that they be as expert as the scholar.
The particular task to which the Cardinal calls us is that of transforming the inhuman features of modern urban life to suit the properly human needs of-man. It is neither an impractical nor an impossible job. Many successful urban experiments exist in the United States, such as the green belt communities near Milwaukee, Cincinnati, and Washington, D. C.
It is well to bear his advice in mind: “Do not be timid. Rather defend, exact and impose in the name of a science where no one should equal you, your masterly and liberating conception of the world and man.”
Father O’Brien's New Book Ranks in Nation's Top Ten
Where I Found Christ, a book of convert stories edited by Rev. John A. O’Brien and published by Doubleday and Co. .of New York, has established a new record in ranking among the ten best sellers in the country within a month after it was published. In the list of ten best sellers compiled by America from reports gathered from bookstores in all parts of the United States, Where I Found Christ ranked in sixth place.
The volume consists of convert stories of fourteen outstanding scholars and contains an introductory chapter, a final chapter and a biographical sketch of each contributor prepared by Father 0‘Brien.
The conversion stories of three members of the local community are featured in the volume: those by Dr. Edward O. Dodson of the Department of Biology; Mr. Dale Francis, director of the University Press; and Mrs. Lucille Hasley, the wife of Professor Louis Hasley of the Department of English.
From the speedy manner in which Where I Found Christ has achieved its popularity throughout the country, it bids fair to equal, if not surpass, its predecessor along these lines, The Road to Damascus, which has ranked among the ten best sellers of Catholic bookstores in the country for the past year and for. which a new edition of 100,000 copies is now being planned.
Dec. 1, 1950
23
wemre them AU!
Philip Morris l n
brood
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-O-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE hangover *
k~"“ <*« “«OK«O

PHILIP MORRIS
24
ft
The Scholastic


Irish Tackle U.S.C in Sunny California
ND Winds Up Season Against Perennial Foe
By BILL RILEY, ’52
Over 80,000 people will congregate in the Los Angeles Coliseum tomorrow afternoon to see the University of Southern California, coached by Jeff Cravath, meet Frank Leahy’s Notre Dame team.
This 80,000 will mark the largest crowd that the Irish have played before this year. Main interest for the sun-soaked crowd will be to see whether it is the Irish or the Trojans who can salvage a victory from what has been the worst season in years for- both teams.
Both the Trojans' and the Notre Darners were highly-thought-of by the experts in their pre-season prognostications. Neither lived up to early newspaper and magazine ratings. But, for both teams, a victory tomorrow will be as important as it was when top national rating awaited the winner.
On the basis of comparative scores— never too sound for figuring any game— the Irish rate as slight favorites. The only teams that both Trojans and Irish have met are Navy and Iowa. The Irish beat Navy, 19-10, while the Middies dumped the Californians, 27-14. Iowa,
Hal Hatfield
who tied the Notre Darners, 14-14, also dropped the Trojans, by the narrow margin of 20-14.
Southern California has a bettei- club than their record indicates. Three backs, Al Carmichael, Cosimo Cutri and John Fouch have averaged better than five yards per try on the ground. Only one of the Irish runners, John Petitbon, has
Al Carmichael
bettered the five-yard-per-try mark.
The emphasis on passing from the Trojan side will probably not be as heavy as it was in last year’s game,' when the Californians—mainly quarterback Jim Powers—threw 36 passes, completing 23. This established all-time single-game records in both departments for the Trojans.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Dame		Southern Cal
Ostrowski ...	F.		Hatfield
Flynn 		T		 Conde
		
Burns 			G...		 Downs
Groom 			C...		 Welsh
Wallner 			G...		 McMurty
Toneff 			T...		 Peters
Mutscheller		E...		 Zimmerman
Williams ....		Q		 Robertson
Gay 			H...		 Carmichael
Barrett 			H...		 Sears
Landry 		F		Pucci
Kickoff: 2 p. m. P.S.T.
However, the Californians have passers again this year. Irish pass defenders can expect aerials to be coming from any of three Trojan backs—Quarterbacks Wilbur Robertson and Ed Demir-jian, and Fullback Frank Gifford all are adept at passing.
The Trojans were bothered by the same problem as was the Irish coaching staff at the start of the season—lack of veteran strength in the line. Only returnees who had seen much action in the 1949 season were Left End Hal Hatfield, Left Tackle Volney Peters, Right Guard Paul McMurty and Right Tackle Jes Swope. Beyond that there was the usual crop of potentially good linemen. There is evidence that Cravath’s sophomores-have needed only game time in order to develop into a winning team.
Offensively, the Californians operate mainly from the “T,” shifting occasionally into a double-wing, from which the main threat is Fullback Gifford.
Most highly-rated of the Trojan backs is Al Carmichael, who has been called the most promising U.S.C. back since Andy Schindler of Rose Bowl fame, who led the Trojans to Conference championships in 1938 and ’39. Carmichael has a 5.1 per try average and is the workhorse of the Southern Cal backfield. He has carried the ball 68 times for a net gain of 341 yards. He has also caught several passes, ranks among the top
Paul McMurty
Dec. 1, 1950
25
Pat Duff
three in receiving, leads in punt returns and is among the top three in kick-off returns.
This will be the 22nd meeting of Notre Dame and Southern California in football. It was 11 years ago, in 1939, that the Trojans last beat the Irish. The victory came in Notre Dame’s stadium, 20-12. Last year, in another home game for the Irish, Leon Hart, playing both end and fullback, led the Notre Darners to a 32-0 victory. Cold weather, combined with a half-frozen and snow-slippery field, hampered the Californians.
The two outstanding offensive stars against the Irish last year, Quarterback Jim Powers and Halfback Jim Martin, were lost to the Trojans by graduation. However, End Hatfield, who was on the catching end of many of Powers’ passes, is still around.
Extra incentives for the Trojans to give all they’ve got to top the Irish lies in the fact that Cravath has never beaten Leahy in his collegiate coaching career. Also, the Irish lead over all in the series, with 13 victories to six for Troy. There have been only two ties in the series. That was in 1936, 13-13, and in 1948 when Bill Gay and Steve Oracko pulled out a 14-14 tie for the Irish in the last two minutes.
The Notre Dame-Southem California rivalry has always been a wonderful attraction at the gate. Over the years, 1,641,839 customers have gone through the turnstiles to watch the Trojans and Irish. Back in 1929, Notre Dame and Southern Cal played before 123,000 people in Soldiers Field, Chicago.
Notre Dame last visited the Coliseum in 1948. That was the year the Trojans were on their way to the npset of the season leading the Irish, 14-7, with only two minutes to go. Billy Gay, who will
Krausemen Open Cage Season Wednesday; Potentially Strong Squad to Face Franklin
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
Intent upon improving last year’s rather mediocre 15-9 won lost record Coach Ed Krause has grouped together the nucleus of what could be an exceptionally fine basketball team. His major worry apears to be filling the shoes of Kevin O’Shea, the great playmaker of the past three seasons.
At present Krause’s hopes for solution of this problem lie with Don Strasser. Strasser, a junior from Chicago, was the ball handler along with O’Shea last year and scored 200 points during the season. He is one of the three first stringers returning from last year’s team. The others are forward Leroy Leslie, a junior, and senior forward Dan Bagley.
Leslie, the fastest man on the team, trailed only O’Shea in scoring last year with 290 points. He owns a deadly lefthanded push shot and this year has added to his effectiveness with the development of a right-handed shot. Dan Bagley was the demon under the boards for the Irish a year ago and Krause’s plan calls for Bagley to assume the same role this year.
Sophomore Norb Lewinski is slated to replace John Foley as the Irish center. Lewinski, at 6ft. 5 in., is small as college centers run these days but his footwork and sharp passing from the pivot more than make up for what he lacks in height.
Marty O’Connor and John Neumayr are battling for the fifth spot on the starting team. O’Connor, a fiery Senior, is the sparkplug, driving type of player.
be playing his last game for Notre Dame tomorrow, returned a kick-off some 85 yards; the Irish got a first down on the Trojan one-yard line on an interference penalty, and two plays later, scored. Steve Oracko kicked the extra point to tie the game and keep the undefeated string intact.
Season’s Record		
use		Op.
14	Iowa	20
20	Washington State	20
7	California	13
14	Navy	27
30	Oregon	21
7	Stanford	7
13	Washington	28
0	UCLA	39
1		—
105	4	175
He is also the most experienced of the Irish, this being his third year of college competition. Neumayr, who had considerable game experience last year as a Sophomore, is expected to add height and scoring punch to the lineup.
Behind these six men, Coach Krause has a squad with a wealth of depth and ability. Neal Fichtel, a Senior forward, will bolster the Irish rebound department. Bob Wray and Hughes Wilcox will back up Lewinski at the pivot post. They both have had a year’s experience as varsity men. Three newcomers from a group of promising Sophs who will see much service this year are, Jim Gibbons, Larry Eaton and Jerry McClosky. Eaton is a forward while the other two have been operating from the guard position during pre-season practice.
As the opening, game with Franklin College approaches Coach Krause has laid the accent on speed. “We -want speed, speed and more speed,” is the way the coach puts it. After the Franklin tilt on Dec. 6, the Irish will tackle Anderson College on the 9 of December. These two games wil be played at home. Krause hopes that two quick home engagements will give the team the poise and savvy it needs before they take to the road.
No+re Dame Gymnast Team in Workouts
Double forward rolls and hand-stands are just ’ necessary evils to most of the unimpressed physical education students, but to the members of the newest addition to Notre Dame’s sports family, the Irish gymnastic team, they are important daily maneuvers. For the best of the Notre Dame Gymnasts, as the new arrival has formally been dubbed, have begun preparation for their debut into intercollegiate competition.
Under the able direction of Ray Runkle, the tumblers will launch their schedule with a triangular meet to be held with Indiana and Kent State in Bloomington. A tentative match with Northwestern has been set, and the team •will also enter the Midwestern Collegiate Invitational Meet at Navy Pier- in Chicago. The climax of the season will be the NCAA finals at Ann Arbor, Michigan, during the Easter vacation.
About 40 candidates, including 15 Freshmen, are working out in the six different events jwhich make up the pro-
26
Scholastic
gram of a regular meet. With straining muscles the tumbling enthusiasts work and sweat each day in the heavy 1 apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial.
At this early date a few of this group look outstanding.
On the side horse, George McClancy and Bob Reilly have vaulted their way to the top of the list and have shown great promise, while Neal Vasconcellos and Bill Santini have looked the best on the tricky flying rings.
Jack Wenning, Ed Graham, and Mal-ham Wakin lead the group which is working on the parallel bars, with Wen-nig, Reilly, and Tom King pacing the v * horizontal bar hopefuls. Santini, Vasconcellos, and Wenning again, have the inside track on the trampoline, while the fl ".al event, tumbling, features those three along with McCiancy ana Dan Marsalek.
Tn addition to being the youngest of the athletic family, the Gymnasts have the most unique organization. They have formed a club, elected officers, and planned activities other than those connected with gymnastics itself. Wenning was chosen president of the group with King as vice-president. McClancy is sec-1 retary and Wakin was elected manager.
If any of Notre Dame’s students would like to see the inner working of the sports baby, they are invited to drop into the heavy app. room any afternoon and watch Runkle’s charges go through their daily paces. And if any are really interested in becoming a part of the Notre Dame Gymnasts all that is needed is a sweat suit and a little ambition.
—Bill Londo, ’53
. NROTC Riflemen on Way To Repeat for National Title
Notre Dame’s NROTC Rifle team has begun the defense of their National Championship under the guidance of Captain J. M. Daly, USMC. The team consists of returnees Donald J. Murphy, Jim W. Hartman, Kam Hayden, Wayne Six, Frank Brickson and Francis Beu-mel and promising newcomers Phil Myer and Don Malchey.
This year, the sharpshooters will fire . against 50 of the 52 NROTC units in the country and will be attempting to gain their third consecutive leg on the All Navy Cup and Trophy. Last year the team represented the Navy in the All Service ROTC competition and finished second for the Secretary of Defense Trophy.
So far this year, the Navy riflemen have four wins as against no losses. Capt. Daly’s - charges have downed Brown, Northwestern, Rochester and Tufts. Coming up for the Dalymen will be the University of California on Dec.
'	2 and Columbia on Dec. 16.


The All-American Boys
This is All-American time around the country as the nation’s sportswriters, football coaches, the nation’s magazines, wire services, and anyone else who would care to, select the All-American football team for 1950.
This picking of All-American elevens was started, quite harmlessly, by Walter Camp back in 1889. Mr. Camp’s football world was a small one for his first eleven included only members from the Ivy League elite—Princeton, Yale and Harvard. Later he broadened his choices somewhat but it wasn’t until 1920, when George Gipp made his team, that Notre Dame had a Walter Camp All-American.
The all-time honor for most All-Americans goes, strangely enough, to Yale with a total of 112 since 1889. Notre Dame is fourth with 61 behind Harvard (91), and Princeton (71). However, over the last 30 years Notre Dame leads with 58 places, 15 ahead of runner-up Army.
During the past nine years, Notre Dame has failed to place a man on the mythical eleven just once, and that was during the war year of 1944.
Choosing a truly representative team this year will be no easy task. With the up and down performances of players as well as teams, it will be more difficult than any time since before the war.
So far it appears that Notre Dame will suffer in the All-American choices. Maybe the selection men are sore at us for pulling that dirty trick of not going undefeated and winning the national championship like they said we would. Or maybe they think that because we didn’t have a good season by Notre Dame standards, we haven’t anyone worth mentioning for All-American.
One sectional All-American brought to our attention looked as though it had been picked last September along with the pre-season team ratings. Grandelius of Michigan State, who looked like one of the best power runners in the country against ND, was worthy of only an honorable mention. And Jim Mutscheller, the best end we saw all year, failed to get any recognition at all in this same Midwest selection.
Mellow-toned Jack Hynes summed it up perfectly when he said, “Them pickin’s are outta there.”
Fast Finish	.
If the Irish win their game with Southern Cal tomorrow, it won’t have been too bad a season after all—comparatively speaking.
Ohio State and Southern Methodist were, at one time or another this season, ranked as the number one football team in the country. The Buckeyes finished •with three losses while SMU has a like number and has to meet traditional rival TCU in their season’s-windup tomorrow.
Michigan is going to the Rose Bowl with a 4-1-1 record in conference play but their overall record is little better than average—5-3-1.
Looks like the Pacific Coast Conference might finally manage to win a Rose Bowl game from the Big Ten.
Time Out
RCA Victor is sponsoring a “Mr. Touchdown U. S. A;” contest this year with the leading scorer from among the nation’s 119 major colleges being awarded a television set in recognition of his achievement. In case this awarding of the set is considered a too open violation of the Sanity Code, it will be donated to the player’s school. Bob Reynolds of Nebraska is the likely recipient. . . . Bill Fleming is hoping the torn muscles in his right ankle will heal in a hurry so he can start getting back into shape. Bill wants to have a fighting chance at defending the Sugar Bowl hurdle cham- . pionship he won in New Orleans over last New Year’s. .
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow is Homecoming for Southern Cal and the Trojans will be out to salvage what they can out of a poor season. They missed a win over the Irish in the same Coliseum two years ago, and they’ll miss another one tomorrow.
Notre Dame, 20; Southern Cal, 17.
j
I i
i
i
i
Dec. 1, 1950
27
KMJOckiWf	tke,
Basketball Plans Discussed
At a meeting in the Rockne Memorial on Wednesday, Nov. 15, the coming 1950-al interhall basketball set-up was discussed. Mr. Szekely conduted the meeting and outlined the plans for the future season.
According to the announced arrangement, two weeks beginning Friday, Nov. 17, were devoted to practice games to be played in the Rock with no referees or official scoring. Following this the two weeks immediately preceding Christmas vacation will find teams competing in official games. On the strength of the teams’ showing during this period, Mr. Szekely will seed teams for the tournament which will be held after the second semester. Immediately after Christmas vacation there will be another week of practice games to prepare teams for the tournament.
Mr. Szekely also announced that teams will be seeded in four team brackets. Thus, there will be an elimination of the former custom of bracketing the teams with no consideration of strength.
The semi-final and final playoffs will be held in the fieldhouse about the first week of March.—Bob Rust, ’53
Morrissey Drubs St. Ed’s in Title Tilt
Scoring at least once in every period, a big, powerful Morrissey aggregation rolled over St. Edward’s by a 32-0 score to annex the 1950 Interhall football championship. A steady drizzle soaked the field before the contest and continued throughout the game.
Morrissey could do no wrong as they ran over their smaller opponents. On the other hand, St. Ed’s vaunted attack fizzled before the staunch Soph line. Fred Crowe, the Saint’s big fullback, played most of the game and was the whole show on offense as he hit the line again and again and completed four out of 18 passes for most of the losers’ yardage. The slippery pigskin skidded out of the hands of his receivers on several occa- . sions to lower his completion percentage.
Over in the winners’ camp, Tom Walker, a fleet-footed left half, was the whole offensive show. He scored two TD’s, had one scoring jaunt called back because of a penalty and did most of the passing for the victors, including a 61 yard touchdown toss in the fourth quarter for the final Morrissey score.
Morrissey scored their first touchdown the second time they got their hands on
28
the ball. Walker paced the drive with a 22 yard pass and then raced nine yards around his own left end for the touchdown. The try for conversion failed and at the end of the first period it was 6-0, Morrissey.
In the second period, a bad St. Ed’s punt set up the second touchdown, giving Morrissey possession on the enemy 35. Line smashes by Kucharczuk and Walker gave Morrissey a touchdown, but an offside penalty nullified the score and put Morrissey back on the 20. Three plays later, Kucharczuk bucked over from the three and Morrissey led at the half, 12-0.	*
Early in the third period another bad punt set up the third Morrissey touchdown. Taking the ball on the Saints’ 35, the winners drove for the remaining yardage in three plays with a 24-yard run by Walker high-lighting the drive. Pat Smith’s conversion attempt was successful and St. Eds was behind, 19-0.
Morrissey scored two more touchdowns in the last period. The first came as a result of a pass interception. The Soph’s Pierce Walsh intercepted a Crowe pass on the 21 and ran all the way for the score. A few minutes later, Walker passed to Dan McGovern who grabbed the pigskin at mid-field and sprinted 50 yards for the last score of the game.
—Roger Fernandes, ’5£
Coach Langford Issues Call For Frosh Fencing Tryouts
Coach Walter Langford has issued a call for Freshmen for the varsity fencing squad. Freshman drill practice will begin Monday at 4 p. m. in the fencing room at the northeast end of the fieldhouse. The Freshmen will be under the immediate direction of Lou Peck and Bob Westrick, who will introduce them to the fundamental elements of fencing, the various drills, specific parries, reposts, lunges, and types and uses of the blades.
It is emphasized that no Freshman need have previous experience in fencing. In fact, it is better to be without experience, since the neophyte fencer can be taught more readily the particular forms of offense and defense used at Notre Dame. The Freshmen will be introduced to the foil, epee, and sabre, and after learning the fundamentals, will be placed in one or other of the weapon classes according to the particular speed, ability and precision which he manifests.
Regulation size numerals and mono
grams are presented on the basis of intramural tournaments for the Freshmen, and intercollegiate competition for the upperclassmen, and it is to be emphasized that regular practicing Freshmen are excused from physical education classes.
All Freshmen interested in joining the fencing team should report Monday afternoon in the fieldhouse.
Harriers Finish Season With 5+h in Nationals
Running on a slippery course lined with snowbanks, the Irish harriers took fifth place in the National Collegiate Cross Country Championship last Monday for their finest and also their final showing of the season.
Number one Irishman, Benny Almaguer, finished in seventh place in the race, a scant 30 seconds behind the winner. Ben beat every man on the winning Penn State team, and also knocked off two of his previous conquerors of this season, John Stearns of Marquette and Bob Rodibaugh of Purdue.
Following Coach Alex Wilson’s instructions to the letter, the other Notre Dame men went out fast and held on to some mighty high places. Bob Fieler was twenty-sixth in the standout field and steadily improving sophomore Harry Snyder—he was only the sixth man on last year’s frosh team—finished thirty-first. Con Tetrault was right behind him in thirty-second, Johnny O’Connor was thirty-fifth, and George Helfenstein was fifty-first. Tony DaDamio made the trip, but was not allowed to run because of a mixup in the entries.
During the two weeks previous to the Nationals the Notre Dame harriers took second in the Central Collegiate Conference Championships on Nov. 18, and also placed second in the meet held by the Shamrock A. C. of Louisville, Ky., on Thanksgiving Day.
The University of Tennessee, Southeastern Conference cross country champions, won the Louisville meet by two points from the Irish, and their- star, Alf Holmberg, a Swedish exchange student from Stockholm, won the individual title. Ben Almaguer, fifth in a closely bunched field, led the Irish and Jim Kit-tell, Bob Fieler, and Con Tetrault were eighth, ninth and tenth, respectively. Since the meet was AAU sponsored, Kit-tell was eligible to run, even though he has completed his collegiate eligibility.
In the Central Collegiate Meet, the Irish lost to Marquette, by only two points, 55-53. John Stearns of the. Hilltoppers was the first finisher, while Ben Almaguer finished fourth. Bob Fieler ran a terrific race to take sixth and the
The Scholastic
other Irish scorers were Connie Tetrault, twelfth; Tony DaDamino, sixteenth; and Johnny O’Connor, seventeenth.
With their first season under Coach Alex Wilson now filed away in the record books, the ledger* looks like this: four dual meets won (Purdue, Iowa, Pittsburgh, and Loyola), and two lost (Marquette and Wisconsin). The third place taken in the Indiana State Championship meet and the results of the three meets described above complete the season’s story.
Also worth mentioning is the third place taken by the Freshman team in a CYO sponsored race held in Chicago on Thanksgiving Day. Harry Snyder, a varsity man helping out the frosh, bettered the old meet record while finishing fourth in an exceptionally fast race, and was the first scorer for their team. Behind him came Bill Lenahan, Larry Brennan, Bob Gorman, Justin McDonough, Dick Schreiber, and George OBrien.—Ted Prahinski, ’51
Strong Showing in Regatta Ends Sailing Club's Season
The wind howled, snow fell, and the mercury shivered about the zero mark last weekend, but the Notre Dame Sail
ing Club felt like sailing—and it did. In the icy waters of Belmont Harbor on Lake Michigan, the dinghy enthusiasts ignored the elements to race in the Tim-me Angstrom Memorial Trophy Regatta; and to the complete amazement of many, they stole seventh place in competition with some of the nation’s outstanding colleges. Opposing 16 top-notch sailing clubs that included the cream of the Midwest and the East’s best four, Notre Dame put forth its foremost effort of the fall to reach the high point in its brief three year* history.
The meet was the final one of the semester for ND and it was held under miserable weather conditions. Twenty-five to forty-five mile per hour gusts buffeted the small 12-foot crafts and constantly drove numbing spray over the frozen sailors. Before each of the 10 indirtdual races over the triangular one mile course, the boats had to be freed from accumulated ice with blasts of live steam. The 17 Dyer Dowl dinghies used were furnished by the Chicago Yacht Club, which sponsored the event. Bill Jonak and Joe Schrank skippered the Irish crew composed of Tom and Bill Murphy, Bob Edmundson, Don Bergman, Pat Dwyer, and Larry McDonnell.
The first seven colleges to finish were Toledo, MIT, Northwestern, Ohio State, Denison, and Notre Dame.
Several Points Discussed At Glider Club Meeting
At the business meeting of the Glider Club last Monday evening, Nov. 27, in the Aeronautical Building the following points were discussed:
The familiar emblem which decorates the club’s glider will soon appear on the jackets of members of the Club. Orders were taken at the meeting for- the new leather emblems that soon will be issued. Delivery of them has been promised before Christmas. The Disney-faced flying squirrel will then be a familiar sight around the campus.
A report was made by James Foley on the construction of wing tip wheels for the ship. It is believed this is the first attempt in the country to replace the old wing skids with wheels. A CAA inspector has approved it and now the club is waiting for good weather conditions so the new device can be tested. It was designed by the club’s moderator, Mr. R. S. Eikenberry.
The appointment of Edmund Gohman as acting club treasurer was made official at this meeting. Plans were also made for the writing of a constitution so a charter can be obtained by the club. It is expected that this will lead to the acceptance of non-aero members to bring the club up to its maximum strength.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
atutouMceA
The Committee on International Relations'
“The Soviet Union”
Edited by Waldemar Gurian
Pre-publication price, $3 Regular price, $3.50
PddicatitMi date ta le GMtUMutced
SEND YOUR ORDER NOW TO: University of Notre Dame Press
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Dec. 1, 1950
29
Whafs in a Name ?
Tall, elongated buildings, squat buildings, dirty grey, flamboyant towers and graceful arches, functional blockhouses and scalloped cornices, Gothic and other architectures, these are the homes of Notre Dame men.
From the Gothic of the Gold Coast to the teetering and tradition-ridden St. Ed.’s, they stand or lean, buffeted by the wind and belted inside by the successive hammerings of years of overexuberance. These are the communist communities where food, clothes, money and typewritten notes are common property. They bear inscriptions no one bothers to translate, and names that antedate the antidiluvian.
For four years the ND man hop-skotches around the campus tasting the old and the new. He may start in the family of St. Ed’s, graduate to sophisticated Lyons, be jettisoned into Badin and graduate cum laude from Dillon.
The ND man knows many things; he knows his room number, his laundry number, his chow line number; if he’s among the nouveau rich he knows his mail box number. He knows his hall is Badin or Breen-Phillips, but he probably, doesn’t know whether Badin is somebody or something, or just an epithet.
But Badin Hall is named after a very much somebody; in fact he is the first Catholic priest ordained in the U. S., Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, who came to the U. S. in 1793 and who is responsible for the purchase of the present ND campus and the construction of the Log Chapel. In 1844 a frame building was put up, destroyed, replaced by
Students study beneath Farley portrait.
-- “	--------------L " ~ ~
By JAY CONLON, ’52
a brick building and named St. Joseph Hall. Later, with the addition of two wings, it was dedicated to Father Badin. “The venerability of Badin supersedes any claim to aesthetic value”—the keynote of an article in the Scholastic written in 1930—is a good way of saying the building is without architecture.
There was a time when Thursday meant payday at Notre Dame, when, midst the clatter of wash basins and the tolling of the bell on the water tower, the “minims” of newly-built St. Edward’s Hall flocked to assembly for the weekly lecture and twenty-five cents to dissipate at the candy store.
The minims were the famed future undergraduates who scurried around the campus and claimed the bemuraled caverns of soaring St. Ed’s as home. This new hall was built in 1882 and named after the patron saint of the Reverend Father Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross; it was enlarged in 1884 and at its peak contained a gym, candy store, library and play room besides housing the minims. It wasn’t until 1929 that the minims made way for college men.
“College traditions are of the stuif that men dream of—they do not pass with the men who gave them form.” In 1888 Collegiate Hall, later renamed Sorin Hall, was built on the campus. The new castle was a radical break with the domitory tradition; it was to have fifty single rooms, “large enough to encourage study and small enough to discourage visiting.”
Named after Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., first president of Notre Dame, the hall originally held the Law department, and before the addition of the two towered wings had its own power plant. Sorin’s towers long dominated the Notre Dame campus, as did the Sub magnetize Sorin itself; a candidate for admittance to Sorin was thoroughly investigated by fellow students. “He had to be of the elite which meant cleverness without corresponding seriousness and good conduct.”
In 1909, the words “Gold Coast” became a part of the ND vocabulary. With dire predictions by the boys of Sorin, the cornerstone was laid for Walsh Hall. Named after Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., seventh president of Notre Dame, the hall was reputed the best in America; with private baths, billiard parlor,
and an auditorium, it became a mecca for clubs, meetings, entertainments and smokers. Until Howard, Lyons and Morrissey rose on the west end of the campus, Walsh was strictly Gold Coast and labeled “sissy” by the diehards from Sorin and Corby. It wasn’t until some Walsh man stole the “demerit list” from his rector, that the men from Walsh were admitted into Sorin’s company.
The “Gold Coast” moved in 1924, for within two years Howard, Lyons and Morrissey became the Gothic pride of the campus. Howard went up in 1924 and was named after Professor Timothy Howard, a member of the first faculty of law in 1869 who distinguished his alma mater in the courts of Indiana.
Immediately on the heels of Howard was Lyons Hall built in 1925 and dedicated to Professor Joseph Lyons, ’62, who taught for many years at the University and was responsible for a brief history of Notre Dame on her silver jubilee. With the view toward St. Mary’s lake, the famed Lyons Arch was one of the chief beauty spots of the trio. Lyons soon covered herself with a glow by becoming the hangout for campus leaders, especially in publications and athletics.
Finally the mediaeval castle known as Morrissey was built in 1926 and named after Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., eighth president of Notre Dame. Eecause of its oaken paneled lobby, Morrissey was chosen by Stanley Sessler as a proper place for the Fine Arts Department to place some specimens of scientific heraldry. It was here that they labored, reproducing the seals of
Sorin harbors tradition-bound Seniors.
30
The Scholastic

Cambridge, Oxford, and Christ College on oak leaf and acorn backgrounds, each oil reproduction taking 25 hours 'of work.
Then a new coast came to Notre Dame. This time it was the “Platinum Coast” of Alumni and Dillon. The inscriptions, niches, gargoyles and plaques which decorated these halls made the old Gold Coast tarnish a little. It was in 1931 through the generosity of the Alumni Association that a development fund was set up which paid for the first of these two halls, Alumni.
Immediately adjoining, Dillon was named after the Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., second president of Notre Dame. These were the most pretentious of the residence halls; their Gothic stone and ivy-covered walls, the figurines and latin phrases, made them the goal of every uperclassman, except the musty conservatives who clung to Sorin.
Three Halls in 1936
Under the administration of Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., now Bishop O’Hara, three new residence halls were added in the years following 1936. In that year Cavanaugh Hall was named in honor of the former President John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
In 1937, Zahm Hall was erected to perpetuate the memory of Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., companion of Teddy Roosevelt in his South American expeditions, and a great impetus for the furthering of scientific research on the campus. The professor of Physics was also responsible for the foundation of the Dante Library. In 1939, Breen-Phillips Hall was built in honor of two graduates and outstanding benefactors, Frank B. Phillips and William P. Breen, both from Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Then in 1947 Project F was completed under the direction of Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., succeeding as President of Notre Dame. It was not for many weeks that ND men knew a residence hall was in construction. It was to be named after the “King of Rectors”, the “Tiger” of Sorin Hall, Rev. John Farley, C.S.C. Father John, who had earned nine letters in athletics, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1899 and ordained in 1907. Famous for his staccato wave and perennial “Hi, boy” Father John was self-appointed mailman of Sorin Hall; he personally delivered every letter and if it was a scented envelope, the man was sure to have a hard time.
These buildings marked the beginning of the Eastern quadrangle of the University; while not as elegant as the “Platinum Coast”, they were modern and functional to the last inch.

Professors STANLEY S. SESSLER and FREDERICK S. BECKMAN were guests at a house party given Tuesday by Governor and Mrs. Henry F. Schrick-er for members of the Indiana Artists Club.
An article by E. K. FRANCIS, associate professor of sociology, appeared recently in The Mennonite Quarterly Review, published by the Mennonite Historical Society.
At the Third Sculpture International, held recently in Philadelphia, Rev. ANTHONY J. LAUCK, C.S.C., was one of four American sculptors whose works were chosen for purchase by the Fairmont Park Art Association.
Father A. L. Gabriel
The October issue of Ecclesia, monthly illustrated review of the Vatican, contained an article on Notre Dame “The Heart of the State of Indiana,” by Rev. A. L. GABRIEL, O.Praem., of the Mediaeval Institute.
FRANCIS J. ORTBAL, graduate student in economics, has been awarded the Kimberly-Clark scholarship of $1500 for research on an important economic problem. He is a graduate of the University of Texas.
The National Poetry Association has announced that “October, the Phantom Month,” by Notre Dame student TERRENCE VOLLMER, has been accepted for publication in the latest Annual Anthology of College Poetry.
The Times Pictorial, an Irish weekly newspaper, recently published a letter by
REV. EDMUND J. MURRAY, C.S.C., former' assistant prefect of Religion at Notre Dame, who is now studying Irish History at the University of Dublin.
Father Murray wrote in defense cf the name “Irish” as applied to the Notre Dame football team. The Dublin periodical had criticized the use of the term in reference to such adopted Irishmen as “Ostrowski, Helwig, Zambroski, Epstein, and Mutscheller.”
Johann S. Bach
(Continued from Page 14) total of seventeen to support, though not all of them survived him. Composition and hard work were his escapes from misunderstanding. Most of his colossal achievements, his passions and Masses were written here.
But twenty-seven years of careful, hard work at Leipzig began to tell. Cataracts formed over his eyes. An operation was performed, but it was too late. The shock merely aggravated his condition. In his blindness he dictated his final works. The last composition, a cantata, he titled, “0 Lord, when we are in direst need.” But several days before his death he revised it, “Before Thy throne 0 Lord, I come with this.” He died July 28, 1750.
On July 31 he was buried in an unmarked pauper’s grave in Leipzig. Not long afterwards his few possessions were divided. His sons received his manuscripts of old, outmoded music, over three thousand of which have been recovered. Soon the eccentric cantor of Leipzig was a matter of scant memory. At last Thomaskirche hired a new, less troublesome cantor- and settled down to enjoy ordinary music.
After an exhaustive, scientific search 144 years later, when Bach was world-famous, his remains were recovered. They were enclosed in an unpretentious, limestone sarcophagus and placed beneath the altar of the church, tersely inscribed:
JOHANN SEBASTIAN BACH 1685-1750
— Frank Haendler, ’52
Christmas Banquet an Tap For Hungry Aesculapians
Busy Aesculapians are readying chickens for the fire for Thursday’s Christmas banquet at the Mayfair. The dinner, to be attended by club members and faculty representatives, will begin at 7 p.m. Football movies will be shown.
Charles Wolf, of 428 Cavanaugh, is chairman of the affair. The tab for the evening has been set at $2.75 and all members will be contacted. '
Dec. 1, 1950
31
mus/€
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
Bach Festival
All over the United States, the year 1950 signified the coming of a great musical celebration. Music lovers had been waiting for this event for many years, and had been planning an all-out campaign for the further appreciation of the great old master of the classics, Johann Sebastian Bach. Music societies, civic groups, conservatories, and music conscious universities have been busily preparing programs honoring all phases of Bach’s life and works.
Guest lecturers and artists have been devoting a good part of their concert programs to a variety of his compositions. The result has been that many people who had long considered Bach an unapproachable long-hair have come to really enjoy his genius. The depth and quality of his music has been cherished by select groups of men in the muscial know for centuries, but at long last, Bach is coming out into the light, and people find that he is fine and strong, and they are enriched by the study and appreciation of his works.
The University of Notre Dame, in spirit with the 1950 Bach Festival, is offering a program to its students and faculty which represents the variety of Bach’s genius. It is a chance for the many students to hear a good portion of
his works, as presented on campus through the facilities of WND, and through the concerts presented by the faculty of the music department. Mr. Mathes and Mr. Biondo are doing the Violin and Piano Sonata; Mr. Mathes will present the Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue and one of the 48 Preludes and Fugues from the well known “Well Tempered Clavier.”
Mr. Pedtke, dean of the music department, will do a program of organ works in Sacred Heart Church. WND will present the famous B minor Mass, and the combined glee clubs of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame are including two of the master’s cantatas in their program. In addition to this, one night will be devoted to a lecture on Bach by Dr. Rosen-wald of Chicago University.
This program, presented by the University, is an excellent opportunity for all the students to hear many of the most famous of Bach’s compositions. It is a rare chance to study his works in good performances and to learn more about the great master. Much work has been done by students and faculty members under the guidance of the Department of Modern Languages and the Department of Music in an effort to bring more of the finer points of classical music to the campus.
Let’s hope that all the students will cooperate in the program by attending the fine concerts and lectures proposed. It will give us all the opportunity to expand our understanding and knowledge of Bach’s great musical genius.
letters
(Continued from Page 3) friendliness. Perhaps they’re more adult than Mr. Grady thinks.—Editor
Sense or Cynicism?
Editor:
When a student asks for a straightforward answer- backed up with some logical reasoning and concrete facts, must he be denied? Bob Deline sought clarification of a remark by Mr. Walt Collins about the actions of the Junior-Class. He got, and I quote, “Steady, lad, let’s not get panicky” for an answer. We’d like a sensible reply, not a comical, cynical statement. If this is asking too much, we suggest a change in the Scholastic writing staff.
Eugene R. Little Junior
See THE LAST WORD, page -74—Editor.
Off-Campus Jobs
(Continued from Page 19)
the bakery, Carl says that he likes the job, except for the extreme heat in the summer.
Carl seems to have enough time for-studying and for dates on the side, for he is engaged to be married.
Bill Gorbitz of South Bend is one of the courteous bell hops at the Hotel LaSalle in South Bend. At least he is a bell hop from five to eight daily except Fridays and from 7:00 a. m. to 3:00 p. m. on Sundays. Bill carries bags, delivers orders for room service, and pages. The wages for this job are “nominal” says Gorbitz, but the tips more than make up for this lack.
He feels that the weekday hours are perfect for a student. When he quits at eight, the evening is still young. There is plenty of time fox- dates or studying. Being at work at seven on Sunday is a “little rough,” Bill ruefully admits.
Nearly 300 Notre Dame men work at Studebaker’s on the swing and graveyard shifts. This involves working from 3:30 till midnight, except when some overtime is i-equired. It is generally admitted that these are the best jobs, in the point of payment in South Bend. But those shifts take a lot of time and make it nearly impossible to put in a lot of extended study time and to go out on dates during the week. Two of the fellows who work at Studebaker’s are Wilbur Van Scoik and Jim Roemer, both of South Bend.
The lowest-paid job at Studebaker’s pays $1.75 an hour and top jobs may pay up to $2.40 an hour, including night bonus and incentive pay.
32
The Scholastic
The Third Degree
------By ED MERTZ _—
Peering anxiously through the folds of our parka, and stamping our snow-shoed feet, we shall dash this week’s column off before our blood congeals completely and rigor frigidus sets in. As a matter of fact we don’t have much time for said literary effort, since we are scheduled for a hunting trip. It may seem a wee bit chilly to crouch in an unheated duck blind or roam the frozen forests in search of such deer as are too stupid to come in out of the snow, and we agree.
However, our quarry is, we suspect bitterly, to be found in some warm, cozy, steam-heated nook, replete with roaring fire, electric blanket, and heated mittens. For our particular prey is that sadistic blot on civilization’s escutcheon, the local weatherman. And no court in the land will convict me if I bag my limit. Our cringing climatoligist may try to palm off the responsibility on such meteorological intangibles as air masses, cold fronts, and such like, but it will avail him nought. It is all his fault and he dies like a dog.
However, for those graduate students whose finer sensibilities prompt them to seek a small spot of light, warmth, and comfort in this blizzard ridden Arctic world, we do have some warm words of promise.
The Graduate Student Association has slated its first social session of the season for Tuesday, Dec. 5, at 8:30 p. m. in the Vet Rec Hall. This extravaganza is labelled the St. Nick’s Dance, after the real-life prototype of the fat man with the white beaver, and the crimson threads who appears on street corners this time of year. There is a subtle double-play in this title. Not only is the Xmas season at hand, but the fifth is the eve of the Feast of St. Nicholas, and it is expected that the more enthusiastic guests will still be on hand to welcome the patron of the new day, when the witching hour whizzes past.
The entry fee for this fiesta is a measly six bits per couple, together- 'with a Grad. Assoc, membership card, or a buck and a quarter other-wise. Those veteran grads who recall the Valentine Dance of last year can rest assured that these doings will top even that affair of happy memory. Nuff said. Plan on being there to grab your allotted chunk of fun.
AIEE Vice-President Talks On Engineers' Opportunities
J. R. North, vice-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, spoke Tuesday at a joint session of the group’s South Bend branch and the Notre Dame wing in the Engineering Building.
Engineering opportunities was the subject of the talk by Mr. North, chief electrical engineer of Commonwealth Associates, Inc., of Jackson, Mich. A member of the Michigan Engineering Society, his work for Commonwealth includes system planning, technical studies, and design of substations and generating plants.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
MID.PMtm MtEChVf.fSKS-
Y£S. EVERYBODY USES
TRT IT.' SCRATCH YOUR HEAD. IF YOU FIND SENS OF DRYNESS OR LOOSE,UGLY DANDRUFF ) YOU NEED WILDROOT CREAM-QA. HAIR TOMC/ > NON-ALCOHOLIC' CONTAINS SDOTHIN&lANOUNl
KO WONDER ITS AMERICA'S FAVORITE HAIRTONIC.FORA GENEROUSTRIAL SUPPLY FREE, SENO THIS AD WITH YOUR NAME AND ADDRESSTO 9EPCE WILDROOT CO. INC. BUFFALO W,N.Y.
SMART GIRLS USE WILDROOT CREAM-OL FOR QUICK GROOMING ANO FOR RELIEVING DRYNESS BETWEEN PERMANENTS.1
WILD ROOT CEE AM-OIL - MEH WOMEH SRILDREH
Dec. 1, 1950

On Many Things
A few weeks ago, in this column, we made a statement that has since proved a mite explosive, and has caused a flurry of indignation on the part of the Junior Class.
At that time we said: “It’s about time the Juniors did something around here.” In the same column, we praised the Juniors for their Hallowe’en dance, but this fact seems to have been forgotten in the general outrage.
To clear the air somewhat, we hereby declare our regrets that the Juniors took the thing so much to heart. The crack was not aimed at any of the officers of. the class, in or out of office. These men are doing as good a job as they can, so far as we can ascertain.
It was, perhaps, ill-advised to single out the Juniors for criticism as we did. And it was, perhaps, ill-advised to criticize at all. But we did it, and, with back to wall, will now try to expand and explain.
Let’s look at the history of the present Junior Class. As Freshmen, they elected their class officers in January. In accordance with a precedent set by the present Senior Class, the then-potential Junior Class of 1950-51 threw a dance on May 14.
In Sophomore year, the class put on the traditional Sophomore Cotillion on Nov. 18. This was a fine job. In the Spring of last year, the class sponsored a Talent Show, having obtained from the Student Council a $140 fund for prizes.
This year, the Juniors have sponsored a Hallowe’en Barn Dance, and, we presume, are planning a Junior Prom for the Spring.
Thus, in two years’ time, the Juniors have put on two dances, sponsored and put on a third, and drawn out some campus talent. This is not an impressive record. But who has done better?
When you come right down to it, no other class has done much better. The Juniors probably rank slightly behind the present Seniors In “spirit” and activity. The present Sophomores have not yet, perhaps, had a chance to go to town. The Freshmen are still in a state of organization.
Which means that the Juniors are as good as everyone else. They are. But how good is everyone else?
Well, first we have to consider the problem a priori. Students at the University of Notre Dame are first and foremost Notre Dame men, and to the University as a whole their first allegiance goes. Secondarily, they are members of a specific class in the University, and secondarily their allegiance goes to that class.
Therefore, the “spirit” of Notre Dame men is twofold: first a spirit directed toward Notre Dame; second, a spirit directed toward their own class.
Thus, when we are speaking of class spirit, we are speaking of spirit in a secondary sense. Class spirit, like Notre Dame spirit, does not necessarily consist in “doing” things. That is only an outward manifestation of it. It is primarily concerned with living and thinking; with directing one’s living and thinking towards an end; and with working in unison toward that end by individual action. This is “spirit.” But spirit must be kept within certain bounds.
So the Juniors are free from criticism because no observer can really know about living and, particularly, about thinking on the part of others. Where there is fault, it cannot be placed solely on one class or one individual.
There is another aspect to the business of “doing”—of the manifestation of “spirit.” Students come to a university to learn. Everything outside of learning is secondary to that purpose.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
But secondary things can be, and in this case are, necessary things. Therefore it is necessary for students to do more than study.
There is an element of time. One can devote only a certain amount of time to “doing.” If this is the reason that the classes do so little, relatively speaking, in the way of “activities,” then it is a valid excuse. We don’t know if it is the reason. If so, no blame from this corner.
So it may be true that “it is about time the Juniors did something.” It may also be true that it is about time the Freshmen, Sophomores, and Seniors “did something.” The officers can’t do it all. If a class evidences a willingness to work, its officers will go along. The impetus must come from the members of the class.
It may also be that the Junior Class will prove the best class in the history of the University. We doubt it, but it is possible. They have the opportunity— which is to say that they have a year and a half left in the University. And the aforementioned widespread indignation evidences some sort of cohesion. So give it a try, lads. And don’t take things too seriously. And don’t gripe unless you can prove your worth.
The subject is closed from our point of view. It’s up to you.
The Last Word
There is a sign on the side of U. S. Highway 31 as you approach the Angela Blvd, traffic light from the north, which reads: “WELCOME. SOUTH BEND OPTIMIST CLUB.” When you mull over this a bit it has its humorous aspects.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
"Rosie’s ” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
The Scholastic
----—-----------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
-1118 Platt Bldg.. 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours: Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
PHONE 7-1409
Res. ph. 2-6697
ro» MEN WOMEN AMD CNILDUM
209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen. Mgr.
We carry a large showing cf fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.


111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
'll*
HUDDLE
wishes to announce that it now carries Mixture No. 79 tobacco in stcck, in three sizes:
1^4 ounce package 30 cents
8 ounce tin ’ $1.25
16 ounce tin $2.50
in comfortable
Arrow Formal Shirts
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
No struggle to go formal when you have Arrow dress shirts. They’re specially de- . signed for comfort! You’ll see the Arrow “Shoreham” and “Mayfair” at important proms throughout the country. And now at your favorite Arrow dealer’s. qq
Ifs ADLER’S
for ARROW
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Dec. 1, 1950
55