Vol. XXIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February i, 1890.
No. 2r.
Cyclops to Galatea.
Softer than, lambs and whiter than the curds, O Galatea, swan-nymph of the sea!
Vain is my longing, worthless are my words;
Why do you come in night’s sweet dreams to me, And when I wake, swift leave me, as in fear The lambkins hasten when the wolf is near?
Why did my mother, on a dark-bright day, Bring you for hyacinths a-near my cave ?
1 was the guide, and through the tangled way
I thoughtless led you; I am now your slave.
Peace left my soul when you knocked at my heart. Come, Galatea, never to depart!
Though I am dark and homely to the sight— A Cyclops I, and stronger there are few—
Of you I dream through all the quick-paced night, And in the morn ten fawns I feed for you,
And four young bears: O rise from grots below;
Soft love and peace with me forever know!
Last night I dreamed that I, a monster gilled, • Swam in the sea and saw you singing there:
I gave you lilies, and your grotto filled ' With the sweet odors of all flowers rare;
I gave you apples, as I kissed your hand, And reddest poppies from my richest land.
Oh, brave and restless billows of your world: They toss and tremble; see my cypress-grove, And bending laurels, and the tendrils curled
Of honeyed grapes and a fresh treasure-trove In vine-crowned /Etna, of pure-running rills! O Galatea, kill the scorn that kills!	.
Softer than lambs and whiter than the curds, O Galatea, listen to my prayer!
Come, come to land, and hear the song.of birds;
Rise, rise, from ocean-depths, as lily-fair
As you are in my dreams! Come, then, O sleep, For you alone can bring her from the deep.
And Galatea, in her cool, green waves
Plaits her long hair with purple flower-bells
And laughs and sings, while black-browed Cyclops raves,
And to the wind his love-lorn story tells: For well she knows that Cyclops will, ere long, Forget, as poets do, his pain in song.	‘
Maurice Francis Egan.
Sobieski and Poland.	.
BY E. R.
The life of John Sobieski, the intrepid Polish patriot, is one of the most interesting that can be offered within the scope of royal biography. Joining all the spirit of ancient chivalry to Christian piety and an extraodinary desire to secure the independence of his country, he finds but few parallels in history. While exciting our admiration of his conduct, he is equally entitled to our grateful reverence, for he was the savior of Christendom; and, but for his exertions, that might not have been a vain threat which destined the altar of St. Peter’s to become the manger of the Moslem’s horse.
John Sobieski was descended from an illustrious Polish family, and was born in the summer of 1629. The education of the future hero, like that of his elder brother Mark, corresponded to his high fortunes. In his father’s princely inheritance of Zalkiew he was taught not only the theory of war, but languages, history, politics, philosophy—everything, in fact, likely to be useful to one of his birth and connections destined to the first office in the state. His ready genius required little aid from instructors, and his active frame was rendered hardy by martial exercises. Whether listening to the counsels of a father, whom a cultivated understanding and great experience in the world rendered the best of teachers, or bearding the wild boar in the recesses of his patrimonial forests, he afforded sure presages of his future eminence.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But the more agreeable of his occupations was in anticipating the vengeance which he vowed one day to take on the Osmanlis, or Turks, the constant enemies of his country, his religion and his race. -
Our young hero had scarcely attained his sixteenth year when he and his brother were sent on their travels. In France he became the friend as well as the pupil of Conde; in Italy he applied himself to the fine arts and to law; at Constantinople he studied the proportions of the formidable antagonist against which, both as a Christian and a noble Pole, he had been taught to nourish inextinguishable hatred. He was preparing to pass among the Tartars, when an alarming insurrection of the serfs and an invasion of Tartars summoned him to the defence of his country.
In no country in Europe was the slavery of the lower classes so utterly galling and abject as in Poland. But human endurance has its limits. The dreadful tyranny to which the serfs were subjected led them at length to break out into open rebellion. An aged Cossack chief had his property seized by a Polish intendant; he was himself bound in fetters and his wife and family murdered. His soul being on fire with these injuries, on his release he loudly proclaimed his wrongs; 300,000 of his countrymen and of the Tartars, whose Khan had espoused his cause, rose to revenge them. As he advanced into Polish Russia, he was joined by the serfs, who had previously massacred their lords, and by some thousands of Arian and Calvanistic nobles whom the intolerance of the diet, or state council, had doomed to death. In this manner rolled on the frightful inundation, when the two intrepid Sobieskis hastened from the Ottoman capital to oppose the confederated forces.
Having supported the election of John Cassimir to the throne of the republic, John Sobieski eagerly commenced his military career. In the outset he had a subordinate rank, but his valor soon raised him to distinction. In the first campaign his brother Mark was slain. The insurrection was finally quelled; but new foes arose—on the one side the Swedish Charles Gustavus, on the other the Muscovite Czar Alexis ravaged the country with impunity. The Polish armies were annihilated—Cassimir was driven from his throne—and for a time the nation ceased to exist. But some true hearts there were, and among those none were truer and braver than Sobieski’s who never despaired of the country. Noble and peasant at length cojm-. bined, and Cassimir was restored.
During these contentions, which continued
many years, Sobieski was gradually rising to higher commands. His success over the Muscovite general, Sheremstoff, and, above all, the brilliant victory he gained over the same enemy at Slobadyssa, where 70,000 of the Czar’s forces were killed or taken, drew on him the attention of Europe and elevated him to rank with the greatest captains of the age. His exploits during the six following years against the Muscovites and Tartars procured him from his grateful sovereign, first the elevated post of Grand Marshal, next that of Grand Hetman of the Crown. In the former capacity he presided over the administration, and was the only man in the realm who by virtue of his office could inflict the punishment of death without appeal. In the latter capacity he was invested with the supreme disposal of the military force.
The joy of the Poles was great to see their favorite commander thus placed at the head of all the civil and military dignities of Poland. In 1667, 100,000 Cossacks and Tartars invaded the kingdom, and to meet those formidable numbers there were only 10,000 ill-equipped soldiers. “But,” said an officer of State, “if we have no troops, we have Sobieski, who is an army himself ; if the public treasury be empty, he burdens his patrimony with debts, that he may support the mein he has raised.” This was literally true. At his own expense the patriotic Sobieski raised an army of 20,000 and fearlessly marched to meet the enemy.
Having intrenched himself at Podhaic, he sustained during sixteen successive days, with unshaken intrepidity, the impetuous onset of the assailants on whom he inflicted a heavy loss. He did more: he issued from his fortifications, with his greatly diminished band, audaciously assumed the offensive and utterly routed Cossack and Tartar, with Sultan Galga at their head, and compelled them to sue for peace. Such splendid success had been expected by no one, and all Poland flocked to the churches to thank God for having given her such a hero in the time of her need.
In the succeeding reign of Michael, the services of Sobieski were fully as important. In 1671 he opened a campaign with a handful of followers and triumphed over Cossack, Tartar and Turk.. But he derived little satisfaction from his splendid successes. The king, terrified even in victory, consented not only to the dismemberment of the kingdom, but to the humiliation of an annual tribute as the price of peace. At the conclusion of this ignominious peace the nation was torn by factions, and the Hetman retired to his estates in disgust. He was again called
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
327
forth in order to defend his character from the vilest aspersions, which he did most effectually, and accomplished at the same time the rupture of the disgraceful treaty. This event once more brought Sobieski into the field. His exploits were now fully more astonishing than they were before. He captured the strongholds of the Turks and drove them beyond the Danube; and Europe thanked God for “the most signal successes which, for three centuries, Christendom had gained over the Infidel.”
At the close of the campaign, Michael, who was an imbecile monarch; fortunately died. This called forth a meeting of the Polish diet, in which every landholder in the country considered himself entitled to assist. On the 20th of April, 1674, the diet opened, all the chivalry of Poland being arranged under their respective palatinates. Various foreign candidates were on this occasion proposed and each, in turn, rejected. At length the president of the assembly spoke: “Let a Pole reign over Poland!”—a sentiment which was hailed with approbation by the assembly. “We have,” he continued, “a man among us who has ten times saved the republic by his head and his arm; who is hailed, both by the whole world and by ourselves, as the first and the greatest of Poles ... If we here deliberate in peace on the election of a king; if the most illustrious potentates solicit our suffrages; if our power be increased and our liberties left to us, whose is the glory? Call to mind the wonders of Slobadyssa, Podhaic, Kaizu— imperishable names!—and choose for your monarch John Sobieski!” The effect was electrical; all the Polish and Lithuanian palatinates cried out: “Long live King John HL!” The soldiery drew their swords, swearing to exterminate all who did not join the cry. Sobieski was thereupon proclaimed, and entered on his new and royal functions with’ the approbation of all.
(conclusion next WEEK.) ’
Heat and Ventilation.
Students and all persons who subject themselves to severe mental discipline require more artificial heat than any other class of men. We know that carbon and hydrogen enter largely into the composition of organic matter, and that in the human system whatever generates a quickened flow of blood, at the same time increases the deposition of new material, and consequently the displacement of superfluous and indigestible elements. This mutation among the organic elements is necessarily attended
with an increase of temperature; for wherever oxygen is introduced into the system its union with the carbon and hydrogen already present produces what is known as animal heat. Now, when the mind is absorbed in thought, with every faculty of the brain bent upon- some intricate speculation, the blood-vessels pour their vital currents towards that part of the body needing assistance, the brain, and thus the forehead becomes violently heated at the expense of the other portions of the body; the motion of the lungs becomes less active; heat is generated in greatly reduced quantities, and the extremities become chilled and delicately sensitive to the influence of the surrounding atmosphere. If at the same time any of the vital organs should happen to be diseased, the effect is heightened, and frequently death terminates the brief career of the over-ambitious student.
The average temperature of the human body is about 98°, and is maintained in all seasons and climates with a very slight variation while in a healthy condition; and it can maintain this heat without the aid- of any artificial assistance, possessing the power of generating more heat when necessary, and through the action of the lymphatics, the skin and lungs removing it when superabundant. There is one other and intensely dangerous method of removing heat from the body, that is by radiation. Whenever the surrounding temperature is very much lower than that of the body the cold air as it comes in contact with the mucous membrane, in order to equalize the temperature, abstracts the active heat from the body, and thus reduces its temperature. Now if this action is carried on from all parts of the body at the same time and with equal force, no serious inconvenience is liable to ensue, save, perchance, an increase in the action of the organs of nutrition; but should some cold-blooded assassin, filling the position of teacher, fancy the room too warm, and open the door or window at such an angle that the current in rushing in would infringe on only a portion of the body—usually the head or chest —the equilibrium is destroyed, and inflammation and not unfrequently death ensues. It is likewise dangerous to sit near a window casement or a wall that is broken, for small currents of cold air are constantly rushing through the apertures. A student should never be permitted to wear extra clothing, such as shawls, greatcoats, overshoes, and scarfs while in the schoolroom as they become worthless to protect the wearer from the greater severity of the outside' temperature. I have no doubt man was so constituted that he could originally have maintained
328	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a satisfactory temperature without any adven -titious aids, but modern civilization and the increasing degeneracy of physical force have rendered the production of artificial heat a science in itself.
Wood has always been held in high favor and is preferable to coal, as it absorbs less oxygen and gives off less carbonic acid gas. Numberless experiments have been made with a view to determine the kind of wood which contains the most heat in a given area; many of the tests were conducted with the utmost unfairness, and consequently the tables show an utter lack of uniformity. I assisted in arranging a table of this kind some years ago, and the committee used every means in their power to arrive at an impartial and accurate result. The woods used in the test were such as are .indigenous to our forests; were all cut at the same time; seasoned in the shade, and subjected to the same barometric pressure. The experiments extended to wood cut at six different times, each with an interval of two months, and for each separate experiment the wood was taken from the same portion of the tree, and as nearly as possible at the same stage of development. Green wood was used first, and then, in regular order, woods that were partly, and at last wholly seasoned. The experiments were necessarily very numerous, and extended through two entire years. The report of the committee was voluminous in detail and entirely satisfactory. The preference was given without reserve to the wood of the white or sugar maple, cut in the month of January and tested in July of the same year, and to that portion of the tree growing nearest to, yet without touching, the surface of the earth. This was found to contain less volatile gas and a larger percentage of carbon than any other substance used.
Experiments have also been made for the purpose of comparing the relative advantages of the various kinds of apparatus used for heating purposes. The majority of these tests are very unsatisfactory, and none of them conclusive. The largest preference is accorded to open wood-ranges with vertical flues, and second to them is the hot-air-furnace. So far as I have been able to find, but an ungracious reception has been accorded to steam, and air-tight stoves are everywhere denounced. The experiments have been conducted mainly in the interest of manufacturers and vendors of heating apparatus, and are consequently entitled to but very little weight. The action of the air-furnace is based upon the scientific principle of an equal diffusion of heat, and when properly constructed
is most satisfactory in its operation. The com* mon wood stoves that are so nearly universal in their use require an undue amount of oxygen, not only for the purpose of combustion of the fuel consumed, but also for the radiating surface of the heated iron. When cast-iron is very greatly heated it absorbs vast quantities of the oxygen of the surrounding air, thus leaving an undue proportion of nitrogen; and if thevacancy be not supplied, the air is rendered unwholesome and prejudicial to the health.
People who accustom themselves to a high temperature, who sit all day long in close proximity to a roaring wood or coal fire, generate less animal heat; the absorption from the skin and lungs diminishes, and the general tone of the system is lowered. The reason why they cannot withstand the cold is not so much because they are not inured to it as because of the general weakness and debility of the system. The schoolboy will sit by a great stove with a temperature around him not far below 98° and feel very happy all day long, and when school is dismissed he will rush out into the frosty air where the thermometer marks a change of more than a hundred degrees, and yet he will feel no serious inconvenience. He cannot be said to be inured to cold, for he seems absolutely impervious to heat. He has not nearly the amount of animal heat with which the adult is favored, yet his quick respiration and his rapid assimilation of food seem to more than compensate for the deficiency. A high temperature Jin the school-room is rarely advisable, as we shall see presently when we come to speak of ventilation; and, on the contrary, a low temperature should never be resorted to on any pretext whatever.
The old Latin maxim, “In medio tutissimus ibis” is equally true in this as in almost every other case. The best apparatus that can be obtained should always be used—but with this the teacher has little to do—and it is his duty to see that the temperature of the room is kept as uniform as possible. He should never forget that students, and particularly children, require more heat than adults and those who are engaged in some active manual employment. He should be carefully and accurately instructed in the application of the laws of hygiene, and use that knowledge most conscientiously, knowing that he is directly responsible to God for the faithful charge of those young lives entrusted to his care. He may have little more to do than to teach, and if so, his responsibility is materially lessened; but in the vast majority of our schools he is the executive officer of the whole building, and the one on whom its man
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
agement entirely depends. Our school-rooms are seldom, if ever, properly ventilated. The men who build them do not appreciate the importance of pure air in the progress of physical development; or they are actuated by the base, selfish greed for gain that renders them insensible to the higher claims of humanity. They spend thousands of dollars in painting and decoration that please the vulgar eye, and they are praised for their taste and artistic genius— not one thought is bestowed on the vital sanitary arrangements, whereby the temperature is rendered equable and the vitiated, poisonous air is removed from the building.
There are men who are firmly convinced that the ultimate salvation of the human species depends on newer and more approved systems of ventilation. Dr. Holland characterizes them as men of one idea, and he ingeniously remarks that’they might as well be possessed of this as any other idea, for they are incapable of but one, and it usually becomes tiresome in their hands. While I disclaim any such abject devotion to the theoryof ventilation, I amthoroughly earnest in the conviction that a great proportion of the pains and infirmities of the present generation—-nearly every case of consumption, bronchial affections, contractions of the heart, and ulcerous disease of the skin, can be traced directly to their origin—improper and defective ventilation. Under our present system of school education a large portion of our physical development is carried on in the school-room. The best part of the day (from nine till five) is passed there, and hence the importance of adapting that room to the positive requirements of the human system. It is a well recognized principle in physiology that unless the impure venous' blood, through the action of the lungs, be regularly converted into pure arterial blood, the whole system becomes enfeebled and incapacitated to perform its allotted functions: the action of the lungs becomes weak; the bones soft and brittle; the muscles inefficient; the skin rough and covered with humors; the brain disorganized and subject to nervous headache; the intellect becomes impaired, and confusion of ideas and loss of memory are experienced, and usually death ensues to terminate the sufferings of the unhappy patient.
The importance of pure air cannot be overestimated. One of the chief objects of respiration is to free the system of the carbon and hydrogen found in the venous blood. The lymphatics and capillaries of the systemic circulation convey these useless elements to the large veins, gnd thence They are conducted to the
329
lungs, the carbon in the form of acid. This acid has a stronger affinity for atmospheric air than for the other elements of the blood, and hence readily unites with it, while, on the other hand, the oxygen of the air readily disengages itself from the nitrogen, for which it has no chemical affinity, and mixes freely with the blood in the capillary vessels of the lungs. The oxygen is conveyed through the arteries to every portion of the body. The chemical union of oxygen with the carbon and hydrogen in the blood—the so-called combustion—is necessarily attended with the disengagement of heat and the formation of carbonic acid and water. Now, on account of the great affinity of carbonic acid and water for air, they readily permeate the thin walls of the blood-vessels and air-cellsand unite with the nitrogen there contained, whence they'are thrown off from the lungs by the process of expiration. Pure atmospheric air contains about twenty-one per cent, of oxygen to seventy-nine of nitrogen (these two elements, of course, containing very small quantities of carbonic acid and aqueous vapor).
From what we have said it follows naturally that the expired air cannot contain as much oxygen as when taken into the lungs, and also that the carbonic acid in the former must be sensibly increased. Such is the case. Of the oxygen inspired, only about eighteen parts underordinarycircumstances are thrown off; while the carbonic acid is increased nearly five per cent. The nitrogen remains unchanged. Hence the oxygen is the necessary constituent, the nitrogen merely the medium for its conduction. Now it might be questioned, could the same air be breathed again and again and still sustain life while a particle of oxygen remained? The theory is that it could not; the atmospheric air will absorb eleven (11) per cent, of carbonic acid, and no more; this is the point of saturation, and beyond it life cannot exist. The majority of physiologists assert that more than four per cent, of carbonic acid is prejudicial to the health; and as air that has once been breathed contains a little more than double that amount of carbonic acid, it follows that it is unfit for respiration. Of course all men do not absorb oxygen in equal proportion; and, without attempting a tedious and useless classification, I will repeat the general principle that strong, healthy men and children absorb more oxygen than those who are infirm or in the decline of life. It might also be remarked that advanced students and generally those who lead sedentary lives breathe less rapidly and consequently consume less oxygen than those whq
33°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
are engaged in more active physical employments. ' .
5 We have stated that school-rooms are seldom properly ventilated. This defect arises from two causes: the absence of the necessary apparatus for ventilation, and the deplorable ignorance of the teachers respecting the common laws of health. Unwholesome air kills more men than either the sword or intemperance. There are parents who, recognizing the deleterious effect of the school-room, keep their children at home and endeavor to educate them there. This is the most selfish method they can procure. The true solution of the difficulty is to provide better apparatus for warming and ventilating the rooms, and to employ teachers of experience and sound judgment. The temperature of the room should depend upon the condition of the atmosphere, and the ventilation should be such that as much pure air is admitted every minute as is consumed. When the atmosphere is damp and near the point of saturation, less heat is required than when it is cold and dry, but with ventilation the reverse obtains. The influence of a. close, sultry day in midwinter, when the air is densely charged with atmospheric electricity, is well worthy of observation. Severe mental application is very difficult, and, if insisted upon, cannot fail to have an injurious effect. Strong draughts, or currents of cold air, as we have seen, should be carefully avoided; and hence the common practice of I opening the windows on opposite sides of the school-room is a direct violation of the rule. . .
In brick buildings, chimneys should be used . for ventilation; and for this purpose, should be constructed with two flues—separated from each other—the outer one for the smoke, and the interior, or one opening into the room, for the escape of vitiated air. The smoke and heat from the furnace will rarify the air in the ven-. tilating flue, causing it to ascend, and the foul air from the room will rush in to take its place and thus establish a current. For this purpose there should be a large opening near the floor and also one at, or near, the ceiling. Carbonic acid gas, on account of its greater weight, settles . down to the floor, and if there is not an aperture arranged, for its escape it will remain in the room. This fact is seldom recognized and rarely provided for. There should also be ventilation in the ceiling, as near as possible to the centre of the room; and this should be so constructed as to be easily opened and closed, as circumstances may require.
Even with the best devised apparatus for ventilation the air is notsufficiently purified to permit
the room to be closed all day; but the air should be entirely changed at least three times during school hours, and this should be effected at the three recesses—while the pupils are all out of the room—which occurs usually at io a. m., from 12 to I, and 3 p. m. The teacher should see that the windows are opened and free currents of air permitted to pass through the room. This the teacher is often loth to do, lest, on account of the insufficient heating apparatus, he may not be able to restore the lowered temperature before the bell rings. But no such consideration should tempt him to neglect this im* portant sanitary precaution. He should not allow himself to judge of the condition of the atmosphere, for we know that when a person has remained a long time in a room he becomes insensible to the vitiation of the air; as we have already seen, the sensibility of the system becomes impaired,'and the organs gradually adapt themselves to the diminished supply of oxygen. This can be easily illustrated by a person going out for a brisk morning walk, and then suddenly returning to a room in which a number of people have slept the preceding night.
Thus we have shown that the perfect development of this wonderful organic structure, called the body, depends, in a great measure, on heat and ventilation. The purity of the blood can be maintained only at the expense of the oxygen of the air, and this it is the,province of ventilation to supply; and it is from the blood that every portion of this complex system—the flesh the tendons, the brain, the bones and. cartilages —all the various organs (which reduce to similar ultimate elements) is manufactured.
.	. A.D.T.
—A fencing club has been organized at Columbia College with a large membership.—Ex.
—The Holy Father has sent a gift of 100,000 francs (£5000 sterling) to the funds of the new Catholic University of Fribourg.
—Editor (writing to professional humorist)— Send some more “grip” jokes. .
Humorist (writing back)—Can’t; I’ve got it.
—The Boston Transcript says that at “Harvard they pronounce drama with the a long in thb first syllable, and it is worth living for to hear a sophomore talk of ‘the possibilities of the drayma.’ ” It hardly seems worth1 while to, give
I
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	331
up athletic contests with Princeton for the sake' of saying dray ma. The correct New England pronunciation of the word, by the way, is dray my, the final letter something as i in pin.—Sun.
—The latest gift to Harvard University is as unique as it is appropriate. Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, of New York, has given Sio.ooo for the purchase of a Semitic collection. There is no such museum in the world, and as Harvard has made a specialty of Semitic languages,Mr.Schiff,whose family is of Semitic stock, has made this gift in order that such studies maybe more intelligently -pursued.
—Autotype machines have just been served out for the first time to some of the copying clerks at the Vatican; .but they are only to be used for the roughest kind of proof-work which has to be done in a hurry. The Pope dislikes the innovation, for he is anxious—and rightly so—not to break up the admirable school of penmanship which flourishes at the Vatican. There is no such writing in the world as that which is seen on the documents sent out by the Curia. All the copying clerks of the department are priests and monks, and many of them real artists in caligraphy. They are allowed to exercise their fancy in the tracing of illuminated capitals and ornamental rubrics or margins, but there must not be a single erasure on a page which has to be issued in the Pope’s name. A misplaced comma causes a whole page to be rewritten.
—Do not the facts disclosed by our social statistics cause it to appear that, in the adjustment of our schools, we have gone too far in our aim for material advancement and development of wealth, and that we are correspondingly losing in the direction of moral growth and culture? Let us, then, imitate the prudence of the railway engineer, and, though seeking to retain the advantages which are already ours, let us not be blind to the visible defects and besetting dangers of our present system. Let us determine the composition of the training of our public schools; let us see if its parts are well proportioned and the compound skilfully wrought; and a thorough analysis may prove, as with the Bessemer steel rail, that by a judicious change in the nature or proportion of the ingredients our rapid increase of wealth may suffer a .trifling diminution, but the moral balance of education will be restored, and material, political and moral progress will move forward together.—From “ Public Schools as Affecting Crime and''ViceP by Benjamin Reece, in the Popular Science Monthly for January.
—A grand literary and dramatic entertainment was given on Thursday, Jan. 30, by the pupils of St. Mary’s School, Springfield, Ill., under the direction of the Brothers of Holy Cross. The exercises were conducted accord
ing to the following programme: Address............... :............J.	Hoey
Song—“A Boy’s Best Friend” .-....Vocal	Class
Declamation—"Cicero Against Verres”.J. Sexton
Declamation—“ The American Flag ”....L. Saunders
Declamation—“Justice to Ireland”....".. .R; Fitzgerald “THE BLIND BOY.”
Dramatis Personce.
Stanislaus (King of Sarmatia)..........J.	Colgan
Edmond (the Blind Boy)...............H. Graham
Prince Rodolph (Presumptive Heir to the Throne)
.	D. Walsh.	.
Oberto (a Farmer)......................M. Troy
Elvino (Son of Oberto)...................J. Hoey
Starrow (a Villainous Confidante of the Prince)
T. O’Leary.
Kalig (a Reduced Gentleman)............J. Sexton
Molino (a Villager)..................W. Mahoney
Song—“ Life’s Story ”................Vocal Class
Song—“The Will and the Way”..........Vocal Class
Song—Solo—“A Handful of Earth”.........H. Halley
A FARCE IN ONE ACT.
“A SEA OF TROUBLES.”
Gout (an Invalid)......................H. Halley
Hiram Orcutt (a Yankee)..................J. Marx
What’s his name Thingamy (a man of memory)
J. Mahoney.
Byron Bobolink (a Budding Poet)......J. Manning
Mike McShane (an Emerald Isle Man) P. J. McLester Stammering Steve (Professor of Elocution) D. Cain Robert (Gout’s Nephew)...............M. O’Leary
Benny (Gout’s Attendant)...........J.	P. Manning
Song—“ The Battle Cry for Freedom ”	Vocal Class
—Dr. Howard Crosby, a well-known Presbyterian clergyman, at the meeting of the Presbyterian Union in New York City recently, indicted the public school system of the United States in its present elaboration and expansiveness, on the grave counts of being un-Democratic and un-American. Said Dr. Crosby:
“ The State is doing work which it has no business~to do. It has no right to be teaching the higher education. The best thing that could be done with the Normal College—and I hope President Hunter is here to hear me— would be to turn it into a grand central police station (laughter). The best thing that could be done with the College of the City of New York would be to turn it into a prison for boodlers (laughter). I think we have no more right to instruct freely the children of all citizens in the higher .mathematics and the calculus and philosophy than we would have to tax the people to give each child a thousand dollars to set him up in business.”
All of which singularly resembles Bishop McQuaid’s recent protest in the Forum against the taxing of poor men for the education of the children of the rich. The friends of the State schools are wont to make much of the country’s need of elementary education for the children of the masses.	’	.	-
“But,” says the eminent authority above quoted, “it is a mockery of the truth to talk, in these days, of an elementary education in any of our cities or towns. The system embraces everything from a kindergarten to a college. It needs only two other provisions to be perfect— a nursery for babes and a university for the State’s pauperized pets.”
. In the same line of argument Dr. Crosby continues:	.
“ On the same Democratic American principle I think that half of what is done in the public schools could be done away with. The only argument for schools established by the Government at all is to make citizens able to understand what our Government is. In other words, we should only teach children in the public schools to read, to write, to cipher, to know what the American Constitution is._The whole curriculum can be gone through with in three years; and when we limit public education to that, we- shall solve this problem which has been agitating and is agitating us, and will continue to agitate us. We must learn that in our public schools we must-recognize the rights of all.”—Pilot.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWE scholastic.
13ubltsl)rt> tbtTB Saturhag Suring JErrnt Eimt at N. S. Hnibcrsitg. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, February 1, 1890
। Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, -	■ •	Notre Dame, Indiana.
.	Staff.	.
' J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,
H. P. RELSFORD, ’gl,	Wm. C. LARKIN, ’90,
H. A. Holden, ’91.
W. P. McPhee, ’90,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’91,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
Joseph E. Berry, ’91.	D. Barrett, ’go,
R. Adelsperger, ’90.
tined to become a great factor in our country. The greatest proof is the continued noise we hear about them. Dailies, weeklies, monthlies, quarterlies vie with one another in discussing the negro question. No small proof of its seriousness. The little cur along the street is unnoticed, but the strong mastiff is feared and watched.
“ There is no agitation in the country over the Indians' future: there is unceasing discussion of the negroes. While the Church for centuries has been laboring among our red men, only within about two decades of years has she attempted anything for the blacks. The prospects of large conversions among the seven millions beyond the Potomac and Ohio, aliens far more in creed than in race, are brightening. This will be assured by the prospects of the Seminary and Apostolic College recently started in Baltimore. St. Joseph’s Seminary for the colored missions will, we hope, in time send out thousands of missionaries, while its feeder, the Epiphany Apostolic College, will not fail, with God’s blessing, to provide worthy aspirants.’’
Honor.
—Our attention has been drawn frequently to the excellence of the Georgetown College Journal. The editors of the Journal omit no means of making their paper as completely satisfactory as possible. A new feature—and an admirable one—is a department to which prominent writers are invited to contribute. We should suggest only one improvement: that the signatures of these authors might be given in facsimile. Many readers of the Journal would be glad to see John Boyle O’Reilly’s name just as he writes it.
—We have received advance sheets of an article on “The Negroes and Indians” which will appear in the American Ecclesiastical Review for March. It is from the pen of the Rev. Joseph R. Slattery, of St. Joseph’s Seminary, Baltimore, who has devoted himself to an apostolic work in behalf of the negroes of the United States. The article presents a synopsis of the missionary work now being carried on among the negroes in the South, together with the hopes and conclusions expressed by the bishops in those parts. It shows, too, that as yet the negro missions are an unploughed field; in fact, that so far the vast bulk of the negro race have never heard the Gospel from a priest’s lips—and the statements made constitute a powerful appeal to the liberality and zeal of the faithful in contributing to the support of this apostolic work. The writer concludes as follows:
“ Little need be added about our Indian missions. The same difficulties which meet the negro work attend the missionaries among the Indians. There is more halo, however, in laboring for them than for the.blacks. The priest on the negro mission is ever between two fires: between the whites and blacks. The negroes are des-
That man is able to attain to a position of honor in any calling of life is a fact which experience teaches. The word honor may be taken in many senses. It is respect, veneration, esteem, reverence paid to one person from or by another, and it is always supposed to be in acknowledgment of some good quality which the recipient possesses. Such was the idea which even the pagans had of honor; for while they honored a god of that name it was only through the temple of Virtue that anybody could have access to the temple of Honor.
Much more should honor be the reward of virtue non ficta, especially in this age of enlightenment and civilization. We are not speaking now of honor as bestowed by civil powers, for as this is the lowest title that can be conferred, it is also a gratuitous gift. The title “ Honorable” gives to the receiver no claim to our esteem unless he possesses those virtues which should adorn the character of an honorable and virtuous man.
To strive for honor and distinction is not only lawful, but praiseworthy; and society even demands, not indeed rivalry, but lawful emulation. “To win gold and wear it” should be the great aim of everyone, and in no place will such an effort be so happily rewarded as here in our glorious Republic.
“The private path—the secret acts of men-If noble, far the noblest of their lives.”
It is especially in the private life of a man that we should find reason for honoring him. Military prowess, great enterprise, discoveries, not even victories gained by feats of arms, can give a man any claim to honor unless his private
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
333
life be in keeping with the laws of morality and justice. When we look upon a man at a distance who has taken a prominent part on the stage, of life, we consider him to be something; but when we approach closer we often find we have been deceived. Strip that conqueror of those laurels which he has gained, for which he fought, for no other end than the gratification of his sensuality and ambition, and what shall he be? Would those victories redound to his glory, while his plumes are moistened with the tears of innumerable widows and orphans and dyed with the blood of many noble youths? Assuredly not. Take away his plumage, and you . will soon find him on a par with the Roman comedian’s very small man. There is a vast difference, therefore, between honor and fame, for. the greatest warriors and most famous men of history have been, as a rule, the most notorious ‘ for all kinds of depravity and licentiousness. ‘
In Godless colleges we know that the prevail- s ing idea is that to be an honorable man is to! have a leading part in every mischief set on foot;; and if you were to tell one of these that their t conduct was not becoming, they might let you! know that their “honor” was outraged. How . many times did not a false idea of honor lead men to decide.in single combat!
In this world we need all sorts of men; and if a person fulfils virtuously the duties which devolve upon him in his particular state or calling, he will receive the honor and respect to which he is entitled. An honorable man will never lend himself to envy the superiority of others. The poor man who is content with his apparently lowly station is not less deserving of respect than if he had been placed in a more exalted position.
The exalted position of a statesman and the social standing which a man attains by his abilities, bestow a certain amount of eminence and distinction. Those positions give an occasion for discovering latent talents, and bring them forth in bold relief, shining brilliantly and becoming valuable when employed in advancing the well-being of man. Hence they frequently give rise to fame; but we must not mistake this for true honor. While we admire his abilities, and even wish to equal him, yet we would not be classed with him who possesses distinction, if his private life is not irreproachable.
It is, therefore, evident that man’s true honor is riot to be found in the mere accidental circumstances of fortune, nor in any single qualification which he may possess, but in that which forms the whole man. There must be something which’ entitles him to rank high among his fel
low-men. He must possess the qualities of .mind and soul which will irresistibly captivate those with whom he comes in contact; he must not yield to self-interest or corruption; he must be a man fully imbued with sentiments of right and justice; he should be above yielding to any slavish fear or terror, but act his part with firmness and a sense of duty; faithful in the discharge of the trusts confided to him and faithful to his religious obligations. He should be amiable and cheerful with his friends, merciful to his enemies, and affable and kind to all. If a superior, he should always remember that he has to edify more by example than by words, and that he can never gain the confidence of his inferiors except by manifesting a spirit of self-denial. Nevertheless, he must be alive to the necessity of not yielding to any weakness that might be an obstacle to the public good. He should be endowed with feelings of magnanimity, humility and justice, without being either proud, mean or harsh; stern in his acts when duty demands, and manly in his dealings; a man, in fine, on whose word one can rely with perfect confidence.
C.
The Uses of Literature.
The first literature with which every person becomes acquainted is the nursery tale, told by simple people whose kindliness of manner am: ply makes up for want of style. The nursery tales of England, the folk lore of Germany and the fairy tales of India, all form a part of the national literature, and enter to a far greater extent than is commonly believed into the life of their respective peoples. Children drink in these stories and legends with great avidity, and the incidents of these tales sink deep into their minds and their influence is probably never wholly shaken off, for then the mind is plastic and susceptible of deep impressions. The sympathy then shown for the oppressed and the horror experienced at the conduct of the oppressor are the seeds from which spring in after-life a love of justice and hatred of cruelty and wrong. And the airy bubbles which then float about us a little later take more real form in the “ castles in the air,” which so many build.
The influence of a great literature may be seen in the sway which the works of ancient Greece still possess and will probably ever maintain throughout the civilized world—an “influence which is confined within no limits except those which separate civilized from savage man.” Its ancient glories are but a name; its people hardly reckoned in the political life
334	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ of the day;' its race sunken low from its former supremacy, but lately the sport of the despotic Turk, and ruled by an alien king; and yet its mind through its literature moulds the opinions of millions’ ■	’
Never was the desire for knowledge greater than- it is to-day.. Cheap editions and translations of works which were formerly within the reach of only the wealthy and were looked upon as peculiarly the property of the cultured are now poured broadcast over the land. Thousands of volumes are being printed yearly, and the output is ever increasing. Everyone, from the man of leisure to the news-boy and bootblack, can read and does read. And it has been remarked by an English traveller that the expression, distinct pronunciation and propriety of language of which even the American mechanic is master show a people fond of literature. The human intellect has never been so eager to fathom the mysteries which surround it. Salutary beliefs which were received by our fathers with unquestioning faith are now disputed, doubted and denied. Man, like Eve, would know all things. If we wish to retain any influence in our age and country, we must also become imbued with this eager desire for knowledge; and at no time in the history of the world was it ever so-nearly within the reach of all. The literature of each country is alone sufficient to supply our wants with reference to every department of knowledge, as works of any merit are now translated into every language.
Men will not to-day follow blindly where they are led; and if we wish to lead wc must first equip ourselves for our duties, and remember that “knowledge is a fountain of life to him that possesseth,” and that “ the learned in word shall find good things.” And for this leadership the most useful preparation is a thorough literary training. Every great leader in modern times has been noted for his literary culture." In England to-day, the real leaders of the people, in both of the great parties, are men of literary renown. Gladstone, Harcourt, Trevelyan, La-bouchere, Matthews and Bright are all men well known in the world of letters. Science may make an exact reasoner, but literature is preeminently the agent which forms the full, well-rounded man. Wealth may confer distinction and command attention, but it is a servile respect and hot that spontaneous and generous deference which we yield without questioning to those who are really able; and there is not a single-living instance of great popular power being wielded: by a wealthy man, unless with one or two exceptions in England, where foren
sic ability is coupled with it, in the person of the Marquis of Ripon.
. Literature makes our feelings beat in unison with that of our fellow-beings, for in the pages of great authors, novelists, poets and historians we are brought into friendly intercourse with all conditions of men. Our most extended personal acquaintance would never bring us into contact with the various phases of human life which may be met with in the pages of a Dickens, a Thackeray, a Scott, or a Wallace—the latter beguiling our way through a lofty theme with the choicest and most delicate imagery. Wallace has probably done more for the elevation'of taste in literary matters than any recent writer. The poet leads us into the labyrinths of human nature, into the company of the saint and the sinner, the weak and the strong, old age and youth. The historian takes us over the-fields of the past, and the nations pass before us in review. The past and present meet in his pages. History, a part of literature, is the storehouse of nations, in which all their treasures are laid. It is the arbiter of the world, for by it we judge of the-past, and the decree then rendered is unalterable. And though it is said to have been a conspiracy against the truth during the past two centuries, it is only by history itself we learn that such has been the case. And as the sun shines with greater brilliancy through a curtain of clouds, and when it bursts its shadowy bonds fills with radiance the whole earth’and makes nature rejoice, so actions which go through the furnace of detraction come forth in'the end shorn of all calumny and with a greater lustre from contrast to the dark surroundings through which they have- emerged.
From childhood to manhood all men feel the influence of other’s thoughts and actions, and in books we meet with the brightest and best of these gems which come from the mine of great souls. Thoughts which perhaps they had never communicated to even their friends are laid before us without restraint. By his literary talents Voltaire made religion a mockery; his biting satire and delicate raillery turned its august mysteries into the laughing stock of France, arid brought contempt upon its ministers.
But, as Balmes tells us, “every great crisis produces a man equal to its necessities;” arid there appeared, like a meteor in the sky, the noble form of Chateaubriand, who sang with a tongue of fire the beauties of the Bride of Christ. Infidelity, like a desolating torrent, had poured its seething waters over the face of the land, and in its unrestrained course and headlong
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
impetuosity had carried away its ancient monarchy,—a government sanctioned by time; respected not even the ashes of the dead; for the bones of the quiet slumberers in St. Denis were ruthlessly cast to the four. winds of the earth, and in its blind fury thought to overturn even the altar of the Living God, and sweep his ministers from the face of the world forever; and the spring from.which this devastation took its : source was but the writings of Voltaire and his ' ilk. ’ In order to stay the raging waters of infidelity it was necessary that Heaven should work upon them, and that Its Spirit should brood over them once more and bring peace to the face of the Eldest Daughter of the Church. The form which went over the waters was that of Chateaubriand; he brought to his aid the past and the present, and the mantle which he wove for his love was of the finest texture, for it was spun of charity, love and long suffering for mankind.
Once more the waters threaten to rise and engulf us. Atheism calls to its aid all the wealth of philosophy, science and poetry; and, dressing itself in their choicest productions, would seduce men from their true faith. The defenders of the truth are but poorly equipped and few in number. While the one is pouring forth its treasures in a ceaseless stream, the other offers but a little thread, the murmur of whose ripple is heard but by the most watchful ear. “ Well-ordered words are as honeycomb, sweet to the soul; ” and if they were the words of truth, they would be “health to the bones.”
The power of the great orator is shown in the-influence which O’Connell wielded, not merely over his sympathetic countrymen—whose hearts he. had not to win, as he appealed to them in a cause which needed not the charm of rhetoric— but in a hostile House of Commons, among a people who scorned his race and hated his abilities. McCarthy tells us that he was listened to with rapt attention, and that the bitterest of his enemies paid tribute to his eloquence. More, even when broken hearted at the dissensions among- his followers, with a secret remorse weighing on his heart, and with a harassed mind, he appeared for the last time before the bar of the then most powerful assembly in the world, he drew tributes of sympathetic tears from the eyes of even the stern and unbending Tories. Who can read without feeling his veins tingle, the matchless eloquence of Burke appealing for the freedom of his country; of a Grattan, a Curran and a Phillips protesting against the infamous.compact which destroyed the independence of their people arid bound them as slaves to the feet of a relentless foe; arid may we not
335
feel a pardonable pride in our nationality when we think that the eloquence of a Patrick Henry first sounded the tocsin which called a valiant people to arms to resist the encroachments of England upon their liberties. And as we watch on each recurring national festival the eyes flash and the faces kindle at the enthusiastic orations of what many are wont to call high-flown speakers, we may be excused for saying that in our estimation they are a.powerful stimulant to keep alive that love of country which is so essential to a free and enlightened government.. These speeches, however, defective though they often are in literary form, are usually replete with gems of thought; and, as they are printed and read throughout the country, can truly be said to. be a part of our national literature. They keep alive the slumbering fires of patriotism and have a noble mission: to make the .whole people, for one day at least, feel in unison.
The poet leads us into the land of fancy and into the deeper recesses of the human heart. Under his magic touch the world becomes transformed, and things the most commonplace are transfigured with beauty. In his hands nature becomes a living lyre, out of which he draws the most enchanting melody, now gay, now sad, according to his varying moods. His keener insight enables him to fathom the deepest wells of human feeling, and bring forth treasures unknown to less favored mortals. To him nature reveals her mysteries and lays bare her secrets.
In the decline of life, when our steps are getting feeble and old friends are no more; when we hear the busy hum of life but are unable to join in it, then the taste for literature will be a great solace. Our old friends, Newman, Macaulay, Scott, Dickens, and others, can never.leave us; they will never tire of our society, never weary at our old prosaic talk; never feel that . we have grown old and useless. With the one we can soar into the regriori of ideas or follow him as he sketches the Turk, the Athenian, the Norman and the Celt; with Macaulay we may review: the works and lives of the principal actors in the world’s drama in the 18th century; with Scott we may traverse the Scottish Highlands and Lowlands or wander-over the fields . of ancient chivalry, and with Dickens we can enter London, which we may never have seen, and become intimate with the Cockney and the various phases of life in that modern Babylon. Literature instructs us with great patience; it waits for the dull; it repeats over and over again, if we wish, and never gets weary..
336	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
Souvenir Volume, Illustrated. Three Great Events in the History of the Catholic Church in the United States, (i) The Centenary Celebrations; (2) Proceedings of the First American Catholic Congress; (3) Dedication of the Catholic University. Detroit: W. H. Hughes. 1890.
This volume has been edited with care and judgment, and the typographical and artistic execution is well worthy of the occasion that called it forth. The illustrations, comprising portraits of the hierarchy and mitred abbots of the United States and of the most eminent laymen present at the celebration, are in all cases correct, and in some reach a very high degree of excellence. Indeed, as far as the mechanical qualities are concerned, the work is a real edition de luxe, and does credit to the enterprise and taste of its publisher. As to the importance of preserving in permanent form the addresses . delivered in connection with the most momentous event in the history of the American Church, there can be no question. But the volume not, only contains a priceless collection of documents: in which the crucial questions of the time are. discussed with singular ability by some of the ‘ leading representatives of Catholic thought in the United States, but it also gives the reader a ' vivid idea of the magnificence of the Baltimore : celebration, the harmony and enthusiasm that. prevailed in the Catholic Congress and the im- J posing ceremonies that inaugurated the opening • of the Catholic University at Washington. The = occasion was one to render the American Cath- : olic proud of his Church and country. A perusal of the addresses of the prelates present, and of the papers read in the congress is well J calculated to stimulate and increase this feeling. We are, therefore, only fulfilling a duty in wishing this volume the circulation it deserves. No Catholic household in the country should be without it.
—The January number of the American Catho-. lie Quarterly Review is an unusually varied and interesting issue of a periodical which for years; has maintained a high standard of excellence among the English publications of the day. The opening article is from the pen of Rev. Anthony J. Maas, S. J., who writes on “True Reform in the Teaching of the Old Testament.” This paper has as its text an article in the Contemporary Review by Prof. Cheyne, in which the Professor substantially makes two assumptions: (i)“The results of Bible criticism must be admitted as certain.” (2) “In matters with regard to which modern criticism has not yet spoken the last word, we must suspend our opinion.” Rev. Father Maas shows the fallacy of both these propositions. He then sifts out of Prof. Cheyne’s errors the modicum of truth that is mixed with them, and points out the manner in which a knowledge and love of the Old Testament writings should be inculcated from youth onward in our schools, colleges, and seminaries,
and not only to candidates for the Priesthood, but also to the youth who are being prepared for the duties of secular life. “The Tradition of the Gentiles” is the subject of the second article, by M. M. Snell. In the commencement of his paper the writer refers to the charge brought against the Catholic Church that it is semi-pagan in its character because of the fact that her doctrines and practices are in a number of instances very similar to the ideas and practices of heathen nations. He states the fallacious argument as follows: “Christianity claims to be the exclusive professor of divine truth which was revealed from heaven for the first time to the writers of the Bible, or to the twelve Apostles, and considers all other systems of religion as utterly false, and their practices, as such, reprehensible.” The writer shows that the Church does not make any such false claim. On the contrary, it holds that what is now called the Christian religion was received by our first parents by revelation from God, but in dimmer outline and in less details; that its fundamental truths existed among ancient nations, though in fragmentary and distorted forms; that when Christ came He revealed this religion in its fulness and perfection, and made the Catholic Church its teacher and guardian. “ Forty Years in the American Wilderness” is the title of an article, by M. A. C. who first describes Salt Lake City, the scenery surrounding it, its residences, gardens, and public buildings. He then gives the history of Utah and Salt Lake City, the history of Mormonism and the Mormons, their belief and practices, and their present attitude toward the United States Government. Other articles are: “Russian Orthodoxy and Russian Sects,” by “Zemlick”; “The Avesta and its Discoverer,” by A. H. Atteridge; “The New Crusade of the Nineteenth Century,” by R. H. Clark, LL. D.; “The First Period of AntiIrish British Diplomacy at Rome,” by Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, D. D.; “ Magna Charta as It Is,” by D. A. O’Sullivan, Q. C.; “The Higher and Lower Education of the American Priesthood,” by Rev. J. F. Loughlin, D. D.; “Our Recent American Catholic Congress and its Significance,” by John A. Mooney; Scientific Chronicle, Book Notices, etc.
Local Items, i
-■ ■■ *
—Examinations!
—The agony is over.
—Bring back that cap.
—Averages next week.
—The rooster must go!	j
—They read Telemaque together.	|
—Three cheers for the second session!	|
—“ When the lilacs bloom,” remember.	j I
—Who said he saw a ghost in his room ?	11
—Now, boys, on, down the home stretch. | J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	m
—The students had “rec” last Wednesday.
—Who will be Orator of the Day on the 22d?
—What average did you get? See next week.
—The second session begins Monday the 3d.
—The “Vigilance Committee” are doing nobly.
—The crowing of roosters disturbs the atmosphere.
—Essays are due in the higher English classes on the 28th. .
—“Chip” has returned to his home to remain until next year.
—To-morrow is Candlemas Day, also Septua-gesima Sunday.
—It is rumored that the Philodemics will appear soon again.
—The Juniors are inexpressibly anxious for the coming of the 6th.
—An attempt was made to play “base-ball” Wednesday, but the wind was too strong.
—The Parisian Banquet will be the grandest ever given here. It will take the whole bakery.
—Great preparations are being made for an extra fine celebration of Washington’s Birthday. ; —There are indications that the song of the festive bullfrog will soon be heard in the land.
—The examining board in the Minim Department was presided over by Rev. Father Spillard.
—Rev. Father Fitte spent Sunday with the genial Rector of St. Mary’s Church, South Bend.
—Some one should take the hint we have so often thrown out and reorganize the Philopa-trians. .	-
—J. B. Crummey, ’77, of Chicago, paid a very pleasant visit to old friends at the University on Thursday last.
—Among the visitors during the week was the Rev. L. I. Brancheau, Rector of St. Charles’ Church, Newport, Mich.
, —Prof. Lyman returns thanks to Prof. Lis-combe and the young gentlemen who assisted him in his entertainment.
. —The portraits of all the Pontiffs, which are placed in Bishops’ Memorial Hall, were taken from mosaics in St. Paul’s Rome.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., our esteemed Prefect of Religion, was called to Elgin, Ill., on Friday to attend the funeral of his aunt.
—Our friend John wants to know if those roosters can’t be choked off and let the quiet denizens of Sorin Hall have a good night’s rest.
—Prof. Egan’s new historical drama—“At the Sign of the Rose”—is out and for sale at the Ave Maria office. We shall give an extended notice of the work next week.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin and Very Rev. Father Granger are expected about the middle of next week. They will be accorded a hearty and enthusiastic welcome.
—Mr. Juan A. Creel, one of the most industrious and popular commercial students of ’85, is cashier of the Banco. Minero, Chihuahua, the principal bank of Northern Mexico.
—The genial director of St. Joseph’s Manual Labor School has returned from the Infirmary after several weeks’ illness. The boys all feel happy to have him in their midst again.
—According to the Harvard Lampoon there are two reasons why some people don’t mind their own business. One is that they haven’t any mind; the other, that they haven’t any business.	’
—The authorities express themselves well pleased with the good showing made by the students in the examinations which were concluded yesterday (Friday) evening. The general averages will be published in our issue of next week.	.
—With the opening of spring great activity will be displayed in the building line. Thousands of brick are brought up the avenue every day and are stowed away for the new shops, additions to Sorin Hall, etc., which will go up during the coming spring and summer.
—In regard to the monument to be erected to the memory of the late Prof. Lyons, the South Bend Tribune says:	;
“There are many friends of Prof.Lyons in South Bend who will, no doubt, be glad to show their regard for his memory by contributing to this fund. The Tribune already has $5 for this purpose, and will be glad to receive any sums that may be contributed.”
—The Christmas number of the Notre Dame Scholastic was a splendid affair, both in its matter and typography. The usual order of literary articles was, for the nonce, replaced with poetry and short stories by various student contributors, and these displayed commendable versatility and variety. The tastefully engraved headings, from original designs, which introduced the various departments, were very creditable, and added materially to the splendid appearance of the paper. The literary training of the students at Notre Dame must be of a superior order to enable them to produce such a publication.—College Echo.	.
—The nth regular meeting of the Philodemics was held Saturday evening, Jan. 25, President j. B. Sullivan in the chair. There being no regular programme for the evening, the house proceeded to reorganize for the ensuing session. The following officers were unanimouslyelected: President, H. P. Brelsford; Vice-President,L.P. Chute; Recording Secretary, J. R. Fitzgibbon; Corresponding Secretary, G. J. Cooke; Treasurer, Ross D. Bronson; Censor, C. S. Burger. The newly-elected officers were duly installed, and the chair then announced the following committees: Credentials—J. Sullivan, W. Healy and J. J. McGrath. Programme—G. J. Cooke, WT. I. Morrison and N. J. Sinnott. Upon the motion of C. T. Cavanagh, of Chicago, a committee on arrangements were appointed for the approaching lecture of the Hon. D. Dougherty. Messrs. H. P. Brelsford, J. B. Sullivan and C. T. Cavanagh were selected as such Committee. The meeting then adjourned. ;
—Examinations of the various classes in the
338	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Novitiate were held last Wednesday. A special board was organized for the occasion, consisting of Very Rev. Provincial Corby and Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, Master of Novices; Rev. Fathers Spillard and French; Mr. De Groot; Bros. Theogene, Marcellinus, Leander, Daniel, Francis and Linus. The course of study in the Novitiate is at once thorough and complete, and the results of the examination show how well the students appreciate the rare opportunities offered them. It is also gratifying to note that the great object of these classes— that of educating teachers who in the great work of instilling knowledge into the minds of the young will compare favorably with the best secular instructors, and excel them in imparting a thorough training—is being fully attained.
—The entertainment given by Prof. W. C. Lyman, on last Wednesday evening, was attended by a large and appreciative audience. The programme was somewhat lengthy, yet so varied as to suit the tastes of all. It was opened by a well-executed piano duett from Suppe by Messrs. B. Tivnen and R. Tivnen. After the applause which followed the young musicians’ playing had subsided, Mr. Ramsey appeared and in his clear, rich and melodious voice sang “Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.” To the encore which followed the singer bowed his acknowledgments. When Prof. Lyman stepped before the footlights he was greeted with enthusiastic applause—a strong but well-deserved testimony of the esteem in which he is held by •his students. After a few words by way of introduction, the Professor recited “An Englishman’s Adventure in Spain.” Not only is this piece sympathetic, but it is adorned with the richest figures. The manner in which it was delivered proved the Professor to be a master of his art. The humorous selections, “A Professional Call,” “King Hypo,” “Elocution vs. Love,” and “The Frightened Dutchman ” brought down the house. The Closet Scene from “ Hamlet” was executed so naturally that one almost imagined they were present listening to Hamlet censuring his mother and condemning his uncle. Gloster’s murder of King Henry VI. was probably the best of the evening. The applause which followed its rendition showed that the Professor’s efforts were fully appreciated. The flute solo, “La Sirene,” was well rendered by B. Bachrach. E. A. Mock in his vocal solo gave evidence of a highly cultivated voice, he was heartily applauded. The Quartette, consisting of Messrs. Lahey, Schaack, McPhee and Jewett also did well. The “Pilot,” a vocal duett, by Messrs. McPhee and Lahey, ended the evening’s entertainment. The following is the complete
Programme:	.
Piano duet................Selection	from Suppd
Messrs. B. andR. Tivnen.
Solo—“The Broken Pitcher”...............Nemo
■	Mr. C. P. Ramsey.	'
An Englishman’s Adventure in Spain... Waller A Professional Call....... .(Humorous Dialect Medley)
.	Prof. W. C. Lyman.
Flute Solo..............................“La Sirene ”
'	Mr. B. C. Bachrach.
Closet Scene from “ Hamlet”....:........Shakspeare
King Hypo (Comic Selection)....................Hay
Prof. W. C. Lyman.
Vocal Solo..............................(Selected)
Mr. E. A. Mock. ’	•
Gloster’s Murder of King Henry VI.......Shakspeare Prof. W. C. Lyman.
Duet....................................“The Pilot”
Messrs. W. P. McPhee and W. A. Lahey.
Elocution vs. Love........The Frightened Dutchman
Prof. W. C. Lyman. ■
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Bachrach, H. Bronson, Burns, Jas. Brennan, Benz, Burger, Brelsford, Jno. Brennan, Combe, Cassin, Cassidy, G. Cooke, C. Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, Clayton, Coder, Cosgrove, J. Cavanaugh, Dorsey, Delany, Dacy, Dennis, Draper, Davis, Dyer, Darroch, Jas. Dougherty, John Doherty, Fitzgibbon, F. Flynn, P. Fleming, Ford, Fehr, Fack, J. Flynn, A. Flynn, Giblin, Grange, Gough, Houlihan, Herman, Healy, Heard, Hackett, B. Hughes, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, W. Hayes, Hynes, E. Hayes, J. A. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, F. Kelly, Kohlman, R. King, Lesner, Langan, Lancaster, Lane, Lappin. Lynch, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, Leonard, Louisell, Latson, McCartney, Moncada, McDonald, McAuliff, McKee, McAlister, McDonnell, Mithen, McConlogue, McGrath, McConnell, H. O’Neill, O’Brien, O’Shea, W. O’Neill, Powers, Paradis, H. Prichard, F. Prichard, Paquette, Prudhomme, Quigley, Rothert, Roberts, Reedy, Robinson, J. Sinnott, L. Sanford, Steiger, Schaack, J. Smith, Sullivan, Stanton* Talbot^ F. Vurpillat, V. Vurpillat, Wade, Wright, Zimmerman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Blumenthal, S. Bachrach, H. Bachrach, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, T. M. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bruel, Bradley, B. Bates, E. Bates, Burke, Barclay, Bos, Crandall, Conroy,Cohn, Coilman, Cudahy, Cunningham,* J. Connors, E. Du Brul, Duitch, Dempsey, Drumm, Des Garennes, De Lormier, Dorsey,’ Elder, J. M. Flannigan, J. Fitzgerald, C. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke’ Grilach, Garrison, Gross, Galen, Grund, Howard, Ham-baugh, W. Hasenfuss, Hack, Hague, Hagus, Hannin, Heller,* Hoerr* Jacobs, Kearney,* Kehoe, A. Leonard’ J. Leonard, Lenard, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, Merz, McCartney, Mitchell, L. Monarch, Jos. McPhillips, F. McDonnell, F. McKee, McIvers, McLeod, A. Neef, F. Neef, Neenah, O’Brien, O’Rourke, O’Mara, Pomeroy, Palmer, Pendelton, Prichard, Quinlan, Quill, Roper, Spurgeon,’ Scott, Seerey, Sokup, Snyder, Stapleton, Swan, Swan; Sutter, Smith, Thrime, Thom, Tivnen, Treff, Welch Weston, Weise, Ward, Whalen, White, Wolff, Weitzel’.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Ayers, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Buras, Barbour,: Browning, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall’ W. Connor, C. Connor, Covert, Coquillard, W. Crawford’ A. Crawford, Durand, Elkin, Eckler, Ezekiel T. Finnerty/W. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, E. Furth-man, W- Furthman, Funke, Flynn, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilkison, Grant, J. Griggs, Girsch’ Hill, Henneberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Holbrook, Jon-quet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry, C. Lamberton, Loonie, Loomis, Levi, Montague, Maternes, Marr, Mattas, H. Mestling’ E.Mestling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Morrison, Marre, C. Nichols, W. Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman L. Paul, C. Paul, C. Packard, JI Packard, Pierce, Roberts’ Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook, Wash-bume, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, G. Zoehrlaut C Zoehrlaut, Zeigler, Hendry.	’ •
* Omitted by mistake last week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	339
St Mqpy’S SsademY.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The classes in Christian Doctrine, Bible and Church History were examined on Sunday afternoon by Rev. Fathers Corby, Fitte, Maher and Zahm. Clear and prompt answers testified that these important branches are not neglected at St. Mary’s.
—On the 23d Rev. Father Fitte conducted the examination of the graduating class in mental and moral Philosophy, and the creditable manner in which difficult questions were answered speaks well for the work of the past, and promises much for the coming term.
—The examinations in the languages were held on Thursday last, and were most satisfactory. Rev. Father Fitte presided the French and Latin classes, and expressed himself as gratified by the interest manifested by all. The German students also showed that application had not been wanting in their efforts of the session.
—Another of Prof. Egan’s charming lectures was given on Monday evening, Jan. 27. The hour was most agreeably spent in a careful and critical analysis of “The Merchant of Venice,” and of Portia’s character in particular. By clever comparison, the noble womanly features of Portia were clearlyjbrought out, and the traits indicative of generosity, justice and mercy in all the characters of the comedy were placed in a light that could not fail to impress. Marked attention was given to every word, and no play of Shakspeare’s will ever be read or seen by one of Prof. Egan’s audience last Monday evening, but a new charm will be added to it by the insight given in the delineation of this one work.
Obituary.
Sister Mary of St. Adriana.
The death of a religious, which is the consummation of a life of sacrifice, when viewed with the eyes of faith bears little of the gloom which surrounds all that pertains to man’s dissolution in the world; but as our Divine Master shed tears over the grave of one He loved so may we mourn the loss of those near and dear to us. It is in this spirit that we grieve over the departure from this life of Sister Mary Adriana, whose death occurred at St. Mary’s, Jan. 24. As Prefect of the study-hall, and wherever the voice of duty called her, dear Sister Adriana taught by her example the lessons of self-sacrifice, patience' and forbearance; and though suffering
for years from the malady which finally cost her life, it was only a week before her death that she left her post of duty.. As she labored for others faithfully during life, it is to be hoped that she will not be forgotten in death; but that fervent prayers will be offered for her to Him who is the Resurrection and the Life, and in whose presence alone is eternal peace and rest.
Glimpses of Nature, Viewed, from a Pullman Car.*
Snugly ensconced in a luxurious easy-chair in a palace car, starting from New York, with one’s ticket, checks and travelling traps arranged to one’s satisfaction, what is more natural than to look around to survey one’s surroundings. First, within the car: beautifully polished woodwork, shining brass and nickel plate, soft carpets, elegantly upholstered chairs and French mirrors form a picture far removed from the discomforts attendant upon travelling not so many years ago. Verily is the progress of the times nowhere more visible than in these moving hotels! Just below us is a poor invalid, her face indicative of the struggle between hope and fear in her heart; a kind mother ministers to her comfort, and is oblivious to all save the dear one in her care.. Farther down a hat is seen towering above a newspaper, which finally, lowers, disclosingthe typical business man whose environments are forgotten in the thoughts that engage him. Just opposite us is the inevitable nervous individual who taxes the patience of the conductor to its utmost by her numerous questions; and so our observations go on until, we have mentally catalogued the passengers, vaguely surmised their destination, occupation, etc.; then our eyes turn to natural objects of a different character.	' '
In the distance the great city looms up, the masts of numberless ships in the harbor, and beyond the bay the great ocean, itself—what a picture! Through old-fashioned villages, which seem scarcely accustomed yet to the bustle of the present, past well-cultivated farms, on towards the West we speed. Into the heart of mighty" forests whose -thousand arms stretch out as if -in welcome to the settlers who build a home beneath their shade, on, on we go, and limits grow wider: great tracts of timber land, acres of tilled ground, miles of prairie stretch to the horizon, with here and there a dwelling that would seem
* From' Rosa Mystica, a manuscript paper issued under the auspices of the Senior Class.
34°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
out of the world were it not for the children’s faces that scan eagerly the flying glimpse of civilization the limited express brings into their young lives; and as their chubby, sun-browned hands wave a greeting, one feels “all the world’s akin.”
Westward still we go, day and night, and as the sun goes down on the third day of our journey the vast, rolling prairies seem a sea of fire; darkness comes on, and the night carries us through dreamland and leaves us at dawn in the shadows of the mountain regions. The peaks are steeped in brightness, and midway down the slope hang clouds as if loth to go; soft, gray morning light lingers in the valley, and our train steams on, nature unfolding new charms at each curve in the road. High up, fancy traces in the rocks forms like to those described in fairy-lore, and imagination almost endows them with motion. Suddenly a turn in our course finds us nearing an active little mining town. The spirit/vhich graded roads, tunnelled mountains, bridged torrents, is the actuating principle of every inhabitant; the guage of every enterprise marks energy at high pressure, and with an additional locomotive to our train we pull up the heavy grade of the mountain, whose depths hide so much, but whose secrets are daily yielding to the researches of man.
Filled with awe, we drink in the wild beauty of rocky steeps and dark gorges; the mind expands in the rare atmosphere, and incongruities cease to be such to our imagination. It is no surprise to us at a little way station to sep a tall, bronzed miner, with revolver in belt, waiting to greet his wife, a delicate little woman who has travelled a few hours with us, and who occupied herself reading Lowell’s poems; and, as he eagerly welcomes her and gently assists her off the train, we cannot help thinking, here as in the mountain, there is a heart of gold.
Farther west our iron horse is bearing us, and . as we near the coast, new characteristics meet the gaze: clear sky, soft breezes, luxuriant vegetation tell us that the Pacific is not far off; and as in the distance we descry the masts in the harbors and the waters that lave the western slope of our continent, we are lost in amazement—we have reached the land of the Golden Gate! Every hour has brought new scenes, different characters before us; nature and her children alike have charmed us, and with a heart full of praise and thanksgiving to Him whose providence preserves and directs all things, we breathe a prayer that our journey through life may bring us in safety to eternity’s golden gate.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, cc.rect deportment and observance of rules.]	;
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	f
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ansbach, Bates, Bernhart, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Butler, Clark, Cunningham, Collbran, Coll, Curtis, Calderwood, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, Deutsch, Dennison, S. Dempsey, Dolan, M.De Montcourt, . I. De Montcourt, Donahue, Flannery, Fosdick, Green, Ganong, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hagus, Harmes, A. Hanson, Hale, Hutchinson, Hamilton, Haight, Hepburn, Hughes, Hemelspeckj Kimmell, Kelso, A. Koopmann, Lauth, McFarland, Moore, McLoud, Maher, McCarthy, Murison, Mullaney, McPhee, Marley, Nickel, Norris, Nacey, H. Nester, O’Brien, Piper, Pyle, Pendleton, Pugsley, Pearce, K. Ryan, Roberts, Rinehart, Rose^Reilly, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schilrz, Schaefer, M. Schermerhorn, Skancke, Smith, Shrocke, N. Schermerhorn, Thirds, Tormey, Van Mourick, Violette, Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Burns, Barry, Black, Clifford, rCooper, M. Davis, B. Davis, Dreyer, Ernest, Evoy, Girsch, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, N. McGuire, Meskill, S. Mestling, O'Mara, Patrick, Palmer, Philion, Pellinz, Quealy, E. Regan, Reeves, Robbins, Ruger, J. Smyth, Shirey, K. Sweeney, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, Waldron, M. Wagner, Wood, Wright, Wurzburg.	'
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Crandall, A. E. Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, McCarthy, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, C. Porteous, N. Smyth, S. Smyth.
Examination Report.
LANGUAGE COURSE.	■
•	Latin.
ist Class—Miss G. Clarke.-
2D Class—Misses F. Burdick, B. Hepburn, M. Smyth.
French. .	■
2D Class—Misses E. Dennison, F. Marley, B. Balch. Promoted to this Class—D. Deutsch.
3D Class, ist Div.—Misses R. Bero, E. Nester, D. Davis, K. Schermerhorn, M. Rinehart, M. Hurff, N. Davis, A. Penburthy, B. Hepburn.
2D Div.—Misses M. De Montcourt, A. Lynch, S. Hamilton, M. Coll, M. Jungblut, A. Pugsley, A. Wurzburg, G. Roberts, M. Byrnes, I. De Montcourt, L. Wurzburg, A. Dennison, A. Gordon, C. Haight, M. Scherrer, L. Dolan. Promoted to this Class—S. Dempsey.
4TH Class, ist Div.—Misses A. Ryan, M. Otis, M.
Violette, M. Hickey, E, Quealy, M. Ash.	,
2D Div.—Misses McFarland, McLoud, D. Pellinz, A.
Tormey, M. Wagner, K. Wood, J. Patrick, E. Philion, E. Evoy, M, Bums, E. Burns, Murison.
5TH Class—Misses K. Hamilton, M. Egan.
German.
2D Class—Misses G. Lauth, K. Hurley, C. Hurley, M. Piper, E. Quealy, F. Moore, L. Nickel.
3D Class—Misses Deutsch, D. Spurgeon, Ansbach, H. Nacey.—Promoted to this Class—A. Koopmann.
4TH Class—Misses E. Schafer, L. Hagus, J. Currier, j L. Ernest, K. McCarthy.	.	J
2D Div.—Misses L. Kasper, E. Wagner, C. Kasper, L. I Dreyer, Levy, Mestling.	■	.	k
. 5th Class—Misses G. Green, E. Adelsperger, L. Far-	g
well,' A. O’Mara, N. McGuire, M. Rose, N. Schermerhorn,	E
B. Davis, M. Davis, L. McHugh.	K