AS A NOTRE DAME MAN.
YOU CAN CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1/3 IN JANUARY. 1960
PAY 1/3 IN FEBRUARY. 1960
PAY 1/3 IN MARCH, 1960
No Carrying Charge
Your charge account is open at the Campus Shop! Get what you need, when you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Designed for University men who live on a budget, this handy way to charge your clothing needs makes it possible to get what you need now and pay 1/3 in January, 1/3 in February, and 1/3 in March. No interest or carrying charges, of course.
^GILBERT'
^ampu^^hop
On the Campus—Notre Dame
October 2, 1959
3
for anything in
ADLERS!

ADLERS, IN WHITE AND COLORS, FOR MEN AND WOMEN, AVAILABLE AT
Geo. Wyman & Co. Max Adler & Co.
- The Scholastic

ComtMnta^
EDITORIAL PROCEDURE: With the influx of a new editor each fall, the Scholastic for the past several years has greatly varied its style of editorial comment. Three years ago, the editors used two editorials per issue in which to state what they believed to be pertinent and important comments upon student actions and administration-student relations. Last year, a new style of editorial comment was evolved. This, of course, was the “Commentary” column. This year’s editors believe that both of these editorial columns are very valuable. “Commentary” for short items and the editorials for longer and more important matters. In keeping with this belief we plan to feature “Commentary” weekly and add to this, when the occasion demands, one page of editorials. Judging from past experience, we believe that editorials and “Commentary” will appear together (as in this issue) about every fourth week. It is our sincere desire that in this manner we will be able to give our readers a good cross-section of student opinion without consistently boring them with long, windy editorials.
LINGUISTIC IMPROVEMENT: The marked improvement of the modern language department in the past few years continued this summer with the installation of a language laboratory in room 201, O’Shaughnessy Hall. A series of 30 semi-soundproof booths has been set up to accommodate as many students, who may listen to the teacher, records or tapes, or recordings of their own speech in a foreign language. The teacher may also cut in on each student without his knowledge, or he may speak with him over a two-way microphone. Our congratulations to the department for the addition of this equipment which, we feel, will greatly help in the teaching of conversation in other tongues.
LONGHAIR LISTENING: Rumor has it that our campus voice WSND is branching out over the air waves. While the station’s publicity director refuses to confirm the story, other members of the staff are not so hesitant. As we hear it, present plans call for the construction of a second station devoted entirely to good classical music and cultural programs featuring talks and discussions of faculty members. This will occur on the 610 spot on the dial. Meanwhile, over at 640, the usual repertoire of news, sports and rock ’n’ roll will prevail. Hats off to our good friends in the tower for this highly desirable addition.
POLITICAL COLUMNIST: This year, as last, the Scholastic plans to have a special columnist to cover the events of student government. Last year’s Jim Byrne has retired to spend time on his senior thesis and in his departure a new columnist has been appointed. L. David Otte will be our reporter-columnist for the coming school year. Dave makes his debut in this issue with a rundown on the activities at the initial student government meeting last Monday night. We welcome Dave and we are sure that he will continue in the fine tradition set by Jim Byrne last year.
NEBUCHADNEZZAR ON CAMPUS: Students returning to the University have undoubtedly noticed the great empty space immediately behind the Administration Building caused by the destruction of several old buildings. The wrecker’s axe had already descended on most of the Maintenance shops before school was out last spring, but the razing of Father Lange’s gymnasium was accomplished during the . vacation. This presented University planners with the bizzare situation of having an outdoor swimming pool in the middle of a parking area. Some stories have been circulated to the effect that some sort of “Hanging Gardens of Babylon” might be re-created in and around the pool. Quite possibly, though, it will come to a somewhat less exotic end several feet beneath an asphalt parking lot.
CERTAINLY A SURPRISE: The Notre Dame football team certainly deserves to be one of the main topics of conversation around the campus as it has been this week on the basis of its exciting showing against North Carolina last Saturday. Everyone Kras talking about the speed and poise demonstrated by the untested Irish against their biggei- and more experienced foe. It probably should not be admitted to the team that there were some students who felt that the Irish were not going to be able to handle the Tar Heels, especially with Red Mack and George Izo out.
But the team played as though they didn’t even miss these two. They outplayed the expectations of even the most optimistic fans in sweeping the Carolinians off their feet. They turned even the most pessimistic fans into believers with a dazzling display of speed and alert and hustling football. Maybe that was what everyone noticed the most — the hustle and alertness of a fired-up football team that earned in one rainy afternoon the loyalty and backing of the entire student body. The team wanted to win for its coach, the coach wanted to win for the school, and the students
loved every minute of it.
—B.T.&T.
5
On Campus A™
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
SPECIAL—A Used Alpaca Lined
Parka—Only S7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
MR
MO
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
Today I begin my sixth year of writing this column for the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro Cigarettes. For this I get money.
Not, let me hasten to state, that payment is necessary. “Sirs,” I said a few days ago to the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, “if I can introduce America’s college men and women to Philip Morris and Marlboro, and thus enhance their happiness, heighten their zest, upgrade their gusto, magnify their cheer, and broaden their bliss, there is no need to pay me because I am more than amply rewarded.”
We wept then. I’m not ashamed to say it. WE WEPT 1 I wish the wiseacres who say big business is cold and heartless could have been there that day. I wish they could have seen the great, shimmering tears that splashed on the board room table. We wept, every man jack of us. The makers wept— the secretaries wept— I wept—my agent, Clyde Greedy, wept. We wept all.
“No, no!” cried the makers. “We insist on paying you.”
“Oh, very well,” I said, and the gloom passed like a summer shower. We laughed and we lit Philip Morrises and Marlboros—and some of us lit Alpines—which is a brand-new cigarette from the makers of PhilipMorris and Marlboro—a fine new cigarette with a light touch of menthol and the rich taste of choice tobaccos and the longest filter yet devised. And if you are one who likes a fine new cigarette
The makers of Philip Morris, Marlboro and Alpine take great pleasure in bringing you another year of this uncensored, free-wheeling column.
The Scholastic
with a light touch of menthol and the rich taste of choice tobaccos and the longest filter yet devised, you wrould do well to ask for newr king-size Alpines. If, on the other hand, you do not like menthol but do like better makin’s anda filter that does what it’s built for, ask for Marlboro. Or, if you don’t like filters at all, but only mildness, ask for Philip Morris. Any way you play it, you’re a winner.
But I digress. “Will you,” said the makers of Philip Morris, Marlboro and Alpine, “wrote about the important issues that occupy the supple young minds of college America this year in your column?”
“But of course,” I replied, with a kindly chuckle.
“And will you,” asked the makers,
“from time to time say a pleasant word about Philip Morris, Marlboro and Alpine?”
“Crazy kids!” I said with a wry grin, pushing my fist gently against their jaws. “You knowr I will.”
And we ajl shook hands—silently, firmly, mamily. And I left, dabbing my eyes, with my agent, and hurried to the nearest typewTiter.
© 1959 Max Shulman
i

for freshmen only
At this particular time of the year the students are returning to the University and welcoming back their friends and acquaintances, all that is, except one group, our freshmen. It is to this group that this message is directed.
By now most freshmen have been here over two weeks. No doubt the entire process of orientation has been rather confusing, glamorous, and exciting. The numerous talks ranging from those given by professors to those given by the Dean of Students, who was undoubtedly pointed out as an ogre, have seemed endless. The golden dome has been pointed out and warnings have been issued to the effect that certain charlatans might attempt to take up a collection to re-guild it. Finally, last and least, the 1939 movie Knute Rockne—All American starring a considerably younger but not less Irish Pat O’Brien has been shown before an eager crowd at Washington Hall.
Now the orientation is over and classes have begun. Some tests have been announced and many assignments given. Not only that but various groups recruiting new members have appeared, not to mention the other activities which display their posters on the bulletin boards. It all happens so fast that one hardly has time to think. But the student must sit back and consider the reason for being at school. Undoubtedly an education is the primary goal of any student, and every opportunity that Notre Dame offers to help in this matter should be utilized to the utmost.
The first few weeks at college can spell triumph or disaster. At the university level, a student must educate himself. A college student has paid to receive the help of highly trained instructors, but he is not forced to attend school. Therefore, he must get into the habit of putting himself to work for the number of hours he feels is necessary to achieve his own educational goal. The football season can be a most formidable barrier to study, but 20 years from now one is of infinitely more value than the other. The beginning of the academic year is the time to get right “into the harness” and get the job done. After that there will be ample time to join a few, not all, of the activities of the freshman’s choice.
In a few weeks “pink slip” time will arrive. A first-year student who has already slipped “into the harness” will approach it confidently, with no fears. The freshman who hasn't started to fit in will find himself quite worried. Avoiding the trouble early makes everything so much simpler.
Finally we quote a few lines from the pragmatic philosopher, William James, which are very appropriate: “Let no youth have any anxiety about the up-shot of his education, whatever the line of it may be. If he keeps faithfully busy each hour of the working day, he may safely leave the final result to itself. He can with perfect certainty count on waking some fine morning to find himself one of the competent ones of his generation in whatever pursuit he may have singled out.”
It is oui* sincere desire that every freshman now reading the Scholastic may be able to do so three years from today. We are certain that this desire can become a reality.—C.T.
happy new year
The beginning of a new school year is in a way something like the beginning of a new calendai- year: each carries with it a list of “New Year’s Resolutions.” And the similarity often continues as both sets of resolutions drift into the waste basket as the new years gather speed and pattern.
However, the school’s new year is, in a certain sense, a much more important one, particularly to the college student. Whereas he may have as many as 65 January firsts (according to life expectancy statistics), he has only four college Septembers. It is obvious that the September resolutions must be quickly sincere in order that any good may come from them. Certainly, the effects of these resolutions could produce tremendous changes in the years that follow.
Probably heading every college student’s list is the one simple fact of the learning process — study. To become intelligent beings we must certainly study. As Father Hesburgh recently put it in an issue of the Notre Dame magazine, “the university is born when human minds are at WORK together for intellectual purposes.” Unattractive as it might be, we have to work to become educated.
Study, however, is not restricted to the classroom. Not even to class assignments for that matter. Chicago University’s revered ex-Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins has been quoted as saying, “Don’t let your classes interfere with your education.” Radical as this statement seems, it supports a well-taken fact. The mind should not be restricted nor should limits be put on the educational process. Students must do more than class assignments and they must study more than their- academic majors.
Often, though, we hear the cry, “I haven’t got the time. It will hurt my average.” This is precisely what Hutchins was objecting to. We do not come to college to get an average; we go to school to get an education. An average is a somewhat arbitrary attempt of others to evaluate how successful we have been in attaining our goal of an education.
Cbrtainly then, in that list of New Year’s Resolutions there should be the additional items to allow time for extra reading, to allow time for some of the lectures and concerts scheduled every evening of the school year. This extra reading should include some of the favorite works of literature and philosophy and certainly a weekly magazine. It is imperative that we be informed not only of the pa’st but also of the present, otherwise knowledge of the past is valueless for its lessons are not applied.	•
The members of the student body must certainly be aware of the fact that if their future degrees are tp have any meaning, they must be backed by more than an average. They must be backed by well-informed and discerning minds. In other words, they must be backed by educated graduates and we are wise to remember that this education is a product of work — inside and outside the class.
One final warning, however. With football season fast around us we might be tempted to “shelve” our new resolutions until after the 1959 team’s final appearance in late November. By that time the first semester will be practically over and the year will have already set its course. Recall that Notre Dame had a library long before it had a stadium, and professors long before coaches.—R.B.
7.
j October 2, 1959
I
’67 ’60
l'®
We know what you need in class and out . . . and we have it for you!
’63
Once again the Bookstore is ready and willing to serve your every need. Class and campus supplies are displayed in a manner that makes your “self - service” shopping quick and convenient.
COME IN AND GET ACQUAINTED
Notre Dame^
BOOK STORE
s
The Scholastic
in dubious
welcome
This column is dedicated to the newly arrived freshman class. I don’t suppose it could be anything else, since only thirty-seven of the other four* thousand Notre Darners can read; thirty-six of the readers know me and won’t read enough to make it worthwhile; and the editors won’t allow me to dedicate a column to myself, no matter how worthy I am. So here, freshmen, is ESCAPE 1959.
ARE YOU AN OAF?
You may all have run into that real Waterloo of college life, the quiz, already, but at this early date nothing counts very much one way or another. This seems absurd to me, and therefore I am presenting here and obviously now a quiz of merit, weight, imagination, and spaceoccupying ability. If you don’t make it, beware, for I have in my dirty hands the power to brand you a clod, a dullard, a student, and one unfit to date town girls (Benders, I believe they’re called). Think of it—having to leave the enticements of a beautiful and magnificently stupid female for the tarnished, nay, embryonic, charms of a college girl who is not necessarily stupid (as those things go) and quite probably at the negative end of the beauty scale. Add to this the chance that she can and will, talk to, at, about, and above you, and you will want to work very hard on the questions about to challenge your nausea resistance.
QUESTION ONE. Has Notre Dame replaced the Green Bay Packers in the NFL? This is misleading, be careful.
ANSWER — No; but with reason — NFL games are played on Sunday, which could well interfere with mid-term and final exams, played on the same day.
QUESTION TWO. Which came first, the Main Building or the Bubonic Plague?
ANSWER—Many think that the main building was built by men, and that men maintain it. This is a horrible untruth; the big bam was built by the ancestors of those same rats which live there now. The plague did come first, but upon finding some humans still alive, the rats put up an insidious man-trap to snare the remainder. The idea was that the building would collapse, killing all within. Although at this date the idea has been
October 2, 1959
about as successful as the Vanguard rocket, the rats have not given up hope.
QUESTION THREE. Is there a surefire cockroach killer?
ANSWER—I don’t know, but if any one of you does, the entire basement of Sorin Hall will be grateful. But caution, please; don’t just come over and start spraying. Find out what a cockroach looks like first, because some of the other inhabitants owe me money.
QUESTION FOUR. (This is a thought question.) All across our wonderful land, there is a distinct trend toward intellectualism, the recognizable exterior aspects of which are greasy, unkempt hair, dirty clothing, soft-covered novels written by drug-addicts, and a staggering love for coffee. Do Notre Dame students show these characteristics? If not, how can they be made to do so?
ANSWER—It appears that we do well enough on the first three, but that our staggering interest is in another beverage. I think the solution would be to sell coffee in brown glass bottles.
There you have it. If you didn’t get at least three of the four correct, either call your parents to come and take you home, or send one dollar to the University, c/o J. Ausum, 3 Sorin, and the governing powers will reconsider your effort.
A JOB WELL DONE
Saturday, September 26, was the date of an impressive victory for our gridiron warriors (to borrow a new phrase coined by Adolph Hitler in 1941, or was it Hany Wismer every Saturday?) The job I commend, however, was not at the stadium, but at radio station WSND, when a sports director who shall mercifully remain nameless arrived at nine a.m. for the start of the big football week end coverage. This poor fellow turned on eveiy switch he could find, and with feigned cheer began to broadcast. A replacement was due at nine-thirty, but he failed to show, so our hero went on for another hour. When at last the replacement did appear, he brought with him no wreath of roses, but instead a most ungentlemanly barrage not entirely
by D. JIM AUSUM
verbal. In expurgated form, the dialogue went like this.
HERO. Where have you been? I’ve been here for an hour and a half without an engineer.”
REPLACEMENT. “You’ve also been without listeners.” (I told you this was expurgated.) There were no listeners because he had missed one switch, the one which sends the broadcast through the air; and so in one of their most tasteful bits of programming, our student station gave us one and one-half hours of silence. Unwilling to leave well enough alone, WSND then turned that switch, but nobody told that unhappy announcer, who had picked up the telephone, and to the delight of a thousand odd listeners, told the caller that he didn’t know any John Doe, he didn’t care if he ever- met him, and if he did meet him he’d put paris green on his salad. A brief burst of laughter followed, quickly drowned by the station’s first record of the day. This was interrupted by a blaring remote broadcast from the Sorin Hall porch, scheduled for ten minutes later. Struggling to keep some sort of composure, the announcer introduced the Sorin band, who finished their number and never played another, because the janitor mistook the radio cable for an all night light wire and cut it. When the station came on the air again, it was with a different announcer. The sports director is now hiding in his roan, and says he won’t come out again until the Northwestern game. Let’s hope he is a man of his word, shall we?
A WORD OF EXPLANATION
Perhaps by now (if you’re still here) you are wondering how I got this job. Last spring, having grown tired of living a life with no worldly direction, I went over to the department of guidance and testing, seeking both. The results were clear enough, at that; they showed a marked aptitude for lawnmowing, window washing, and leaf raking* I then attempted to transfer to the department of maintenance, but I was turned down because I could not speak Hungarian. With the logic which is mine, I accepted the Escape column, and I’ll see you in two weeks. I hope you all recover in time.	_
YOUR CHOICE OF HIS OR HER SIZE!
Here s the best nghter offer yet1 Windproof l;ghters- n your choice of sizes' Just tell us which of the 3 great cigarette package designs shown below you wont reproduced m beautiful full-color baked enamel or your । ghter. Order as mony lighters os you wish —put order now' Offer expires Januory 31 1960.
S£ND ONLY 60c AND THE BOTTOM FLAP FROM 10 PACKAGES OF
IDEAL COMPANION GIFTS — 3 Great Liggett & Myers Brands to Choose From
SPECIAL OFFER—Order as Many Lighters as You Wish!
LIGHTERS, P. O. BOX 85A, MT. VERNON 10, N. Y.
1 enclose 60 C (no stamps) plus the bottom flap from 10 packages of
L&M or Chesterfield or Oasis, for Please send
FULL SIZE
Q L&M Lighters
□ Chesterfield Lighters
□ Oasis Lighters
each lighter. (First Class Mail.)
CO-ED SIZE
□ L&M Lighters
□ Chesterfield Lighters
□ Oasis Lighters
(Pieuse print plainly)
NAME______________________________________________________
ADDRESS___________________________________________________
CITY________________________________________—STATE--------
\JLX
BOTTOM FLAP
This offer expires Jan. 31. 1960 and is not valid for shipment into states where prohibited, taxed or regulated.
NOTICE: If you are sending in for. more than one lighter be sure you have provided sufficient postage to cover additional weight of coins and paper flaps.
10
The Scholastic
CamfUtA ScMt
FATHER CHESTER SOLETA “A continuing exercise of self-criticism”
Debate Season Opens At Late October Meet
West to the Air Force Academy in Denver, east to West Point in New York, and south to the University of Miami in Florida, the 1959-60 Forensic circuit awaits the University Debate Team.
The National question this year is, “Resolved: that Congress should be given the power to reverse decisions of the Supreme Court.” With the return of 20 veterans and prospects of many new recruits, the team looks forward to a successful season, according to director Professor Leonard Sommer.
Starting with the University of Kentucky tournament October 22-24, the debating season extends until next May, comprising approximately 15 major collegiate tournaments and many individual meets and exhibitions. Although the first tournament is three weeks away, the debaters have been working on the topic since they were notified the first week of September, and are now engaged in an intensive program of practice debates.
This year’s team president is Senior Jerry Goudreau, a civil engineering major from Cleveland, Ohio. Running the meetings and training the new debaters will be Vice-President Jay Whitney and Freshman Coach Guy Powers. This past week the new debate prospects were introduced to the team’s schedule and history, and are being organized for the novice tournaments in the coming months.
Other items on the team’s agenda include tournaments at the Universities of Illinois, Maryland, and South Carolina. Highlighting next spring’s activity, Notre Dame will hold its own National Invitational Tournament next March.
October 2, 1959
SOLEMN HIGH MASS MARKS OPENING OF UNIVERSITY’S ACADEMIC SESSION
Various Changes Greet Students on Return to Campus; Five New Department Heads Listed for School Year
The return of a student body numbering 6,000 was culminated by an address delivered by Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affairs who spoke in the absence of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the president of the University.
Given at the Mass marking the formal opening of the 1959 school year, the sermon pointed out the obligation of the University to match the progress of the modern world. “We must grow into the future, or become irrelevant,” he said.
Subversion. Our obligations are shown to us by the past — by experience. “We must examine ourselves critically to grow.” Father went on to add that Catholic educators “have been inclined to turn from all criticism as if it were subversive.”
By not listening enough to those outside the Church we have “lost innumerable opportunities for intellectual growth.” But this movement towards looking outside the Church is continually becoming more popular. At Notre Dame, he said, “we have the opportunity and perhaps the obligation to intensify this new movement. We should ■ approach reality with reverence and an open mind ready for revision and further growth.”
“To be healthy calls for continuing exercise of self criticism.” Father Soleta emphasized that, “The only way to make truth meaningful to ourselves and our times is to review the past and be intellectually engaged in the present.” This, will bring “wisdom — the reflection of the Holy Trinity.”
Revisions. Although these words were uttered in a formal sermon at the Solemn High Mass which was preceded by a colorful academic procession, they were not mere formalities. Members of the Notre Dame community found many and varied “revisions” designed for “further growth,” when they returned for the new academic year.
These revisions ranged from removal to addition. The most prominent removal was that of the many antiquated buildings in the back of the main administration building. Demolishing crews have taken down several maintenance workshops as well as the old gymnasium and original firehouse.
A major addition is that of a language laboratory in room 201 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The specially de
signed room was long a project of Walter Langford who just recently stepped down as head of the modern languages department. He was assisted in the planning of this laboratory by Charles Parnell, a professor in the department.
Unique in the country, is the lab’s use of a cartridge which contains a continuous loped tape thus eliminating the student’s need to thread the easily broken tapes onto a spool.
Changes even affected the senior Army ROTC program. Long thought to be standardized and set it has been modified by the dropping of the fourth hour of class. In its place orientation classes for summer camp and practical field training are going to be given to the juniors by those seniors who have already “been through it all.”
Administrative. The other major changes were administrative. In addition to Langford’s replacement by Professor William Grupp, there is the succeeding of Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C., by Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., as head of the religion department.
A third succession is that of Dr. Hary Saxe who takes over from Professor Walter Shilts in the capacity of head of the department of civil engineering. Two other new department heads are Julius Banchero of chemical engineering and Ralph Thorson of biology.
But the change that most directly affected the greatest number of students was that of residence hall rectors. Students returned to find nine newly appointed rectors and three that were transferred from one hall to another.
GREEN BRINGS OTHER COLORS
The Sophomore Cotillion committee will present a colorful “Pastel Paradise” on Oct. 30 from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Bids to the dance will be sold in the Rathskeller of the Student Center on Sunday from 7 to 10 p.m. The Cotillion is the same week end as the Navy game and tickets for the contest will be available for dates. Arrangements for accomodations over the week end may be made at the same time. General chairman for the dance is Bill Schlageter.
II
Bridge Tourneys Set For Sunday Sessions
Anyone interested in bridge is invited by the Bridge club to participate in its bridge tournaments, which are held every Sunday afternoon at 1:30, in room 2C of the LaFortune Student Center. The only requirement is to have at least a nodding acquaintance with the game of Contract Bridge. In the early sessions beginners are matched with beginners.
The bridge club is affiliated with the American Contract Bridge League, and awards Master Points at each session. Once a month, a Master Point tournament is held.
During the year, two campus championships are determined: one is for the best pair, with Master Points and trophies for the winners; the other is an Interhall Team-of-Four award, carrying Master Points and trophies for the team members, and a trophy for the hall.
In past years, the University has engaged in intercollegiate team-of-four tournaments at the University of Cincinnati and Oberlin College in Ohio. The possibility of Notre Dame hosting an intercollegiate pair tournament in the spring is also being considered.
James Gerity, of Adrian, Mich., has given the bridge club generous financial help. This year he is offering a trip to Miami, Fla., for the two best bridge players to be selected by competition. All expenses will be paid and the players selected will participate in bridge competition in Miami.
If any students are interested in learning bridge from scratch, classes will be arranged at convenient hours. Further details can be had from Professor Turley at the Sunday afternoon sessions during the year.	.
Fr. Harvey Announces Plays For Coming Theater Season
John Patrick’s Hasty Heart will lead off the 1959-60 University Theater season. Directed by Father Harvey, it will run November 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, and 14. The cast for this play will be announced shortly. Tiger at the Gates, by Jean Giradoux, translated by Christophei- Fry, is scheduled for the week ends of February 11 and 18.
The spring musical will run the week ends of May 5 and 12. Although a definite play has not been decided upon, the theater group is considering Most Happy Fella, by Frank Loesser, Babes in Arms, by Rogers and Hart, or perhaps an original student musical.
This year will initiate a series of new schedules for the plays. Instead of running for a complete week, they will be performed on two successive week ends. This was tried with great success during the latter part of last year. The annual drive for subscriptions will begin on October 12.
Taderera to Represent N.D. in USNSA Project;
Program Designed to Aid Exchange Students '
“USNSA has always believed in the free exchange of students as a means of furthering its fundamental objective of promoting international understanding and fellowship.”
Joe Taderera, a young pre-med student from Southern Rhodesia represents Notre Dame’s part in the National Student Association’s Foreign Student Leadership Project. The Project, which brings student leaders from Africa, Latin America, Asia, and the Middle East to American colleges for a year of study, is financed by the Ford Foundation and the participating schools.
Togetherness. It is designed to give student leaders from both the United States and the native lands of the exchange students a chance to work together in the classroom and in various phases of student activity. With this end in mind, Joe and other FSLP students in America are taking one-half the normal course load. This enables them to participate more fully in American campus life.
Taderera is taking physics, chemistry, and American government here at Notre Dame. The holder of a Bachelor of Science degree in biology from Pius XII College in Basutoland, South Africa, Joe speaks perfect English which he studied while in high school. This young African, a potential leader of national prominence in his rapidly developing country, intends to go to McGill University in Montreal next year and earn a degree in medicine.
This is the third year of operation for FSLP. In requesting its grant from the Ford Foundation NS A stated that “the
FATHER BERNARD, VISITOR TADERERA, AND PRESIDENT BABBITT A hearty welcome to a fellow student
project is intended to develop leader- a ship skills, professional abilities and knowledge of an experience with democratic institutions among student leaders 1 of the underdeveloped areas of the world.”	1
By invitation. Although Notre Dame’s < student government previously had refused to participate in the program it < is now wholeheartedly committed. In fact, Taderera was personally encour- , aged by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president to join ♦ in the program when in 1958, Fr. Hesburgh was visiting Africa.	*
The students arrive in the United States about August 1 and go to Har- » vard University for an informal orientation seminar where they exchange views < on American education, culture, and political and economic problems. After the 4 seminar the students leave for the National Student Congress, the annual 4 policy-making session of the USNSA, which is held each summer at a mid- < western college.
At the Congress, which is the most , representative student meeting held in the United States, FSLP students can < observe the debates on issues of concern to American students. The visitors . have the opportunity to meet student leaders from many colleges and uni- ' versifies and are introduced to the representative of the school to which each has been assigned.
Individual tours and visits with American families and communities are arranged for FSLP students from the end *• of the conference until the school year begins.	4
12
The Scholastic
VICE-PRESIDENTS OFFUT, SHECKLER AND GEIL Top NFCCS positions to local men
Three Students Elected to NFCCS Positions; Scheckler, Offut, Geil Selected National VP's
. Three Notre Dame men were elected to top posts in the National Federation ' of Catholic College Students at the federation’s annual summer conference held in St. Louis, Mo.
Bill Scheckler, Dave Offut, and Tom " Geil all were selected as vice-presidents.
Sheckler, a stay Senator and Dean’s List pre-med student, was given the top spot as executive vice-president. He will be the top assistant to Manhattan College’s k Bernard Martin, the new president.
Martin succeeds Notre Dame’s Mike a Phenner who served as the Federation’s president last year.
► AB reps. A junior AB man, Offut, ’ was chosen as a regional vice-president.
? Offut is a General Motors scholarship winner and was a stay senator last year. His home is in Independence, Mo. Another "junior AB student, Tom Geil, is » this year’s religious affairs vice-president. Geil is from Detroit and has been > active in Notre Dame’s YCS movement.
This summer’s conference was attend-► ed by 179 colleges besides Notre Dame and attempted to study the position of * the Catholic college student in a pluralistic society. The overall aim of the * NFCCS is to develop a competent, vocal Catholic laity.
f In line with this, a problem session will take place here at Notre Dame and at other Catholic universities in an attempt to discover what problems face » the educational community. A report of these sessions will be compiled in a regional report which will be used along with other similar reports for a summer meeting on a national level.
Freedom. Notre Dame action at the summer conference included three resolutions. These concerned fredom of the press, the organization of political groups on campuses, and the conducting of a survey of Catholic college publications.
One of the speakers at the meeting was Joe Taderera, a student from Southern Rhodesia who is now attending Notre Dame under the Foreign Student Leadership program which has been inaugurated for the first time at Notre Dame.
At the summer conference it was agreed that the Federation was the voice of America’s Catholic college students. Although it was pointed out that NFCCS is a service, it was also agreed that in a strict sense, representation to member schools cannot be called a service because a service manifests itself in more concrete ways.
ATTENTION ALL WRITERS!
Any student interested in writing a “Back Page” for the SCHOLASTIC is urged to hand in a manuscript as soon as possible. A discussion of any topic which will provoke thought or stir up a controversy is most desirable. Such topics need not be tied to the University or student life. Address all manuscripts to Back Page Editor, The SCHOLASTIC, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JL jbauid Otte
Inindirt iflis
“Greetings,” said Student Body President Bruce Babbitt, “and let’s go.” This, expectations for* the year, and a call for drive, evaluation, and verve comprised the first meeting of the Student Senate, a skeleton staff until elections, October 8.
The officers, commissioner, Blue Circle, hall president’s council, and the alpha-betics (NFCCS, NSA, YCS) all told of their summer political progress and outlined events and attitudes for the craning year in this first, and short (for the Senate), gathering. It looks like a gradual start is being made, which is good because of the ambitious program ahead.
In the next few months, this writer will bring you reports of the Senate meetings, condensed for your comfort and readability. The reviews will include as many of the happenings as possible, but will emphasize the most important goings-on. They will be based on all the accuracy of observation and keenness of analysis this reporter can muster, even though it’ll be partly subjective.
It is a basic contention that the Student Senate is a worthwhile, and contributing group to campus life. The rewarding effects it has on the student body are not realized by many, even though they inevitably share in the benefits.
Every social activity, the freshman mixers, the victory dances, and the Mar-di Gras, is initiated and controlled by the Senate. Lectures, the student forum, and distinguished speakers are some of the academic events falling within their jurisdiction. Decorations week end, bigscreen telecasts of away football games, and regulations of the campus dubs are some of their functions, along with their responsibility to reflect student opinion.
It will be a big year for the Senate. There are many new ideas and new faces, and the prospects look bright. The arrival of Southern Rhodesian Joe Taderera representing the Foreign Student Leadership Project, and the creation of a new international commission, bring the Senate into untapped areas. The new partisan political groups and their activities will be an interesting activity.
In the Student Senate, there is a lot of hot air distributed, their authority is limited, and the internal politics are distasteful to many, but the numerous advantages considerably - outweigh the drawbacks. Both will be presented to the reader, with a commentary on the what’s what and who’s who. Perhaps some understanding will be engendered.
October 2, 1959
13
AIR FORCE’S HENNING, ARMY’S McKEE, AND NAVY’S SOWERS First conference of Notre Dame's Chiefs of Staff
Sowers, Henning, and McKee to Lead Cadets: Commanders Named for 1959-60 School Year
The Notre Dame NROTC, AFROTC, and AROTC Cadet Commanders for the 1959-60 school year have been announced as Ron Sowers, Harry Henning, and Michael McKee. All are seniors at the University.
Sowers, who will head the NROTC unit, the largest of 52 units in the country, is a general program student from Lexington, Mo. He is a member of the Blue Circle, vice president of the senior class, a former senator, and participates in dramatics at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. A Marine Option student, he has just returned from six weeks training at Quantico, Va.
Concentration. The main concentration of the NROTC unit early in the year will be directed toward the program outlined for the Navy game week end, Oct. 31. The unit, in addition to being host to the Naval Academy, will march in pregame ceremonies. The drill team, under the direction of Commander Anthony Walsh, will perform during halftime.
Sowers’ immediate plans will be concentrated towards the proper training of the 125 new freshmen and continued improvement of the unit.
McKee, a sociology major from Topeka, Kans., will head this year’s AROTC unit. A four-year member of the Glee Club and three-year member- of the Drill Team, he is also active in University Theatre, the Rifle Team, the Army paper, and the Sociology club. As a recent winner of the Distinguished Military award, he has the opportunity to enter the Army with a Regular Commission, that is, with the status as a West Point cadet.
McKee orders. As head of the largest ROTC unit in the school, McKee will oversee a great change in the Army program for juniors and seniors. The customary four classes a week will be cut to three. The free class will then be divided equally, with one part performing Free Order Drill. The other part will learn pei-tinent facts on summer camp procedures. This will mainly involve practical field work, such as patrol work, map and compass readings, and general discipline. The jobs of the two divisions will then be reversed at the semester.
McKee is also making preparations for the Army-Notre Dame basketball game, Feb. 6, at which the AROTC Drill team will perform. The team, which won first place at the Tri-Military smoker on campus under McKee’s direction, later went on to come in fourth in the nation at the tournaments in Chicago.
Dixieland airman. Henning, who will head the AFROTC unit, is a commerce student from Atlanta, Ga. President of both the Dixie club and the Georgia club, he is a member of the Commerce Forum and the Irish Air Society.
Henning will head the unit, which is the largest in several years, with much the same policy as last year. The only significant difference will be the appointment of juniors as Flight Commanders. This move, combined with the Flight Instructional Program now conducted at the South Bend Airport, is designed to enable the AFROTC student to more readily reach a final decision on an Ail- Force future by actually experiencing Air Force life. The Air Force unit this year will also offer orientation flights to all cadets.
November First Deadline For Fulbright Applicants *
About 900 Fulbright scholarships for study or research in 28 countries are * available for 1960-61. Applications are being accepted until November 1.
Inter-American Cultural Convention awards for study in 17 Latin American countries have the same filing deadline.' Recipients of Fulbright awards for study in Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific area will receive tuition, maintenance, and travel expenses. IACC scholarships cover transportation, tuition, and partial maintenance costs.
Eligibility requirements for both awards are: U. S. citizenship at time of application; a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent by 1960; knowledge of the language of the host country; and good health. A demonstrated capacity for in- rz dependent study and a good academic record are also necessary.	y
Applicants will be required to submit a plan, of proposed study that can ; . be carried out profitably within the year abroad. Successful candidates are re- v quired to be affiliated with approved institutions of higher learning abroad. < Students at Notre Dame should consult the campus Fulbright adviser, Rev. < Paul Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, for information and w application forms before Oct. 15.
All application forms, letters of recoin-mendation, and transcripts must be received by November 1, in the office of 9 the Graduate School.
-. <
Westchester Club to Fly Home at Holiday Breaks
The Westchester club will be taking to the air for Thanksgiving and Christmas vacations. Leaving South Bend at 2 p.m. Wednesday, the group expects to be eating supper in Westchester on the first day of the Thanksgiving holidays. 4
Mike Brienza, president of the club, added that, “for the first time, West- * Chester club members would be able to fly directly from the South Bend airport 4. to the Westchester airport.” In addition, bus service from Notre Dame to 9 the local airport would be provided at the time of departure as well as for the •• return late Sunday night.
The contract for this service was 9 worked out this past summer with the United States Overseas Airline Com- 4 pany by Benny Barone and Brienza. It is the same airline that provided flight * service to the club for the Easter holidays last spring.	9
Additional explanations will be made during the club’s first meeting this Sun- 4 day night at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. At this meeting, a $10	9
deposit will be required from each person who is planning to take the plane at M Thanksgiving. Also, permission cards, which must be signed by parents, will * be handed out. Dues of $2 a year will also be collected. Residents of Westchester be collected. Residents of Westchester will be given first preference for the flight.
14
The Scholastic
Michigan State Trip Planned For Senior Fans
Michigan State is the destination of the Class of ’60 senior trip. Two hundred seniors will make the trip ovei- the week end of Oct. 16.
Traveling by bus, they will leave Friday afternoon and arrive at Lansing in time for a mixer that evening at the Newman Club. A dormitory has been set aside for the trippers.
Saturday will begin with Mass. The Newman Club has arranged a coffee hour
for after the game and a dance is scheduled for Saturday night. The seniors will return in time for supper Sunday evening.
Tom O’Connell, Norb Wiech, Mike Ehlerman, Skip Easterly, and Wayne Sullivan make up the committee for the trip. The tickets were sold Thursday evening. Costing 17 dollars each, they include transportation, a box lunch on the bus, the game ticket, and a room for two nights at the university.
CATHOLIC ACTION
The second of the YCS orientation meetings will be held October 7; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain off YCS, will talk on The Spetiafaed Catholic Action Movement. This meeting is for freshmen and upper-classmen interested in YCS as well as for all present members. The meeting will be held from 6:45 to 7:45 in the Student Center Rathskeller.
When things get too close for comfort*
►
Get#*
M,c« •top®**’1
your best friends won’t tell you but your opponents will!
«>


•	Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection.
•	Better than roll-ons that skip.
•	Better than sprays that drip.
•	Better than wrestling with creams that are greasy and messy.
NEW PLASTIC CASE PRE-SET
FOR INSTANT USE 1.00
r k
October 2, 1959
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
COVER BOX—If today's cover seems a bit too much on the scholarly side, keep in mind that artist Jerry Florent began it in the last ebbing vacation moments of August, when the present football fever had not yet enveloped the N.D. campus. Seems that during this season, the student pictured on our cover is of a rarity.
The Golden Dome and church steeple serve to remind the student of more serious endeavors. The two distinct figures, one arriving and one busy at his scholastic attempts dramatize the great gap between arriving on campus and getting back into the old study habits.
BED DEEB EDC DEB DEEB EDEQ □EDEBOQB □□□□ SDSDQQ BEEQDE □□□□ BOE
BBS E0E000BBE BEDE □□□ DBEE □□HOBBSHE DEE
□ED SCJQrT* EBQECB DE □bee eqdb
□BEE EQBE
EDB BEEDE
tSMSNVTODX
KODL KROSSWORD No. 1
ACROSS
1. To touch on
5. Hunter of note
8.	Olmedo’s home court
9.	Drink with many first names
10.	Piercing pain
11.	Bet first
12.	And (Latin)
13.	It's time you 	 Kools
15. Short answer
17.	Yessir, that’s my baba
18.	Yale man
21. Tasty parts of kisses
25. Tom
27.	Krazy_____
28.	Supplements
29.	What the Menthol Magic of Kools makes you feel
32.	Abbreviated system
33.	Texas gold
34.	Moslem priest found in Miami
36. Sing
39. Gives the brush-off
43.	Latin-class weapons
44.	Future U.S. budget figure
46.	You need a 	change: Kools!
47.	Is she a Wave?
48.	You (French)
49.	De mer or de tete
B0. Kin of a saga
61. High point of European trip
DOWN
1. Frequent follower of
sex
2.	The bearded gentry
3.	Ode item
4.	They’ve got pull
5.	Sergeants or can-can girls
6.	On the sheltered side
7.	Playboys
9. Oriental hep-cat
14. Place for male clinches
16. Algerian soldier
18.	Goof
19.	Sheltered general
20.	Not dressy, but not undressy
22.	What nervous Manhattan drinkers do?
23.	Part of the chain gang
24.	Sibilance
26. Of the clan
30.	Cockney hell .
31.	Flower named for actress Arlene
35.	% of a mile
36.	What Kools aren’t
37.	Space, 2-dimensionally
38.	End of a cigarette
40.	Heroine of Ramayana
41.	The cigarette with Menthol Magic
42.	Short cut
45. Hot type
18
25
29
43
46
49
35
40
e 1959. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp-
are you kodl enough TO KRACK THIS?*
10
12
15
21
30
28
32
When yourthroat tells you its time for a change^ you need a real change
YOU NEED THE

ofKODL
mild menthol king-size

16
The Scholastic
Did you know that one-third of the students now entering college will fail to graduate? Perhaps you weren’t aware of the exact figure, but shocking as the percentage is, it is true. Moreover, most of the. students who do flunk out do so in the first three semesters. The tragic aspect of these failures is the fact that most of them could have been prevented. As pathetic as this may seem, it is the case.
Since the institution of the new grading system last year, it is considerably easier to flunk out of Notre Dame.
At the Movies
Pink £lip, P^Ume^:
Act Now
by Charles Tausche
Whereas under the old system a student’s qualitative average (not including failing marks) was the determining factor of whether he stayed in school, now it is his general average including all marks, passing or failing.
Taking these facts into consideration, and with a sincere desire not to lose any of our freshman, the Scholastic, in cooperation with Dr. William Burke, the Student Advisor, is initiating a six-article series entitled “Pink Slip Primer” •which is aimed to help alleviate the freshman problem. The series will extend to midsemester deficiency slip time, more commonly known as “pink slip” time.
In these articles distinguished members of the Notre Dame faculty will present advice in regard to the study of subjects in their particular field and will emphasize the key subjects for you to master. Professors from all four Notre Dame colleges will contribute to the series.
These articles, however, as well as any other attempt to help freshmen, can only be a push in the right direction. The real job is up to you. A right start and the formation of good study habits are essential to college life, regardless of any other notions of college you may have brought with you from high school. Certainly the social, extra-curricular and athletic activities are part of college life, but they are strictly peripheral in contrast to academic achievements which constitute the heart and soul of college existence.
The fact that the last statement is true does not mean that freshmen should participate in only the academic life, but it does suggest a proper balance (Continued on page 25)
October 2, 1959
AVON
The Scapegoat (Sept. 24-Oct.7) is adapted somewhat faithfully from Daphne Du Maurier’s weird yam of mistaken identity. A discontented Englishman who speaks fluent French encounters his look-alike in a French bar and suddenly is made to take over his double’s name, family, and even a mistress. Countless family and extracurricular problems created by the original master of the house have Alec Guinness, who portrays both men, running around in circles. Adding to the confusion are Bette Davis as his dopey mother, Irene Worth as his suicidal wife, and Nicole Maurey as his bona-fide paramour. To top it all, there is quite a switch in the ending. All this contributed to the confusing aspect of this review.
Love Is My Profession (Oct. 8-14) stars big-name Jean Gabin unfortunately playing opposite Brigitte Bardot. It took two and a half hours to film this two-hour movie, due to Brigitte’s relentless drive. In fact, they shot the movie so fast it’s a wonder she had time to dress for street scenes. Actually, if you really want to know what her profession is, you can find it in Balzac.
COLFAX
That Kind of Woman (Oct. 2-8) is, in this case, Sophia Loren, who lately has given signs of learning to act. However, the team she forms with Tab Hunter sets her back at least three movies. She shows more poise than Tab, who looks sometimes like he got more than he bargained for in a leading lady.
GRANADA
The Five Pennies (Oct. 1-7) has Danny Kaye playing Red Nichols in the life story of this great jazz man. At times, Danny seems to be playing himself more than anyone else, but nonetheless he comes through with a fine performance. Barbara Bel Geddes does a credible job as his wife, and “Satchmo” Armstrong is the greatest. A must for all Dixieland fans.
PALACE
Alas, Palatial mansion, Victim of hurrying progress, Thou wast forced out of business By the South Bend Health Commission.
No longer shows with class Will grace thy stately hall, And I beseech ye, one and all, Pray requiem for the Palace.
RIVER PARK
It Happened to Jane (Oct. 1-4) has nothing new to report. What happened to Jane has been happening for a long time. Doris Day, Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovacs.
tom thumb (Oct. 8-11) doesn’t even rate capital letters. But if your . wife is in the midst of a nervous breakdown and your kids are getting the best of you, this might prove better than either an asylum or a reform school.
Its logical Co-Winner is The Little Savage, the story of a little boy who is stranded on an island and spends the rest of his life discovering things. Among them is a girl.
STATE
It Started With a Kiss (Oct. 1-14) is really nothing more than a farcical -bedtime story. Deeply engaged in it are Glenn (Soldier Boy) Ford, Debbie : Reynolds (of courthouse fame), that promising Hungarian starlet Eva Gabor, and a Lincoln Futura sports car. This is another phase in the Reynolds - , transformation from Sweet Young Thing to Heaven Knows What.	- .
—Tony Wong
18
19
Jazz or Classicism
by Jacques Callahan
“Which is better, jazz or classical music?” This question, like the epistemological “How do I know that I know?”, is impossible to answer. The question implies a mutually exclusive distinction between these two forms of music; and more important, it implies that we can apply standards of artistic value to abstract forms of art rather than merely individual works. The question is only valid under these conditions, and both of those conditions are false.
Art, like being, has two and only two modes of existence —in a concrete, singular artifact or in a knowing power. Judgments of good or evil, then, can be made properly only about individual pieces of art. But “art forms” are realities. The works themselves are composed of form, and the mind knows these forms by abstraction from individual works. Still, artistic value resides properly in the work; and, therefore, esthetic judgments are valid only in relation to it. It follows that esthetic judgments regarding forms are possible only insofar as the form is related to the value of the work itself.
FORM COMES SECOND
An artist creates because he has an intuition, a type of
knowledge which cannot be expressed by conjoining a subject and predicate but only by making an artifact which will be expressive, in itself, of the intuition to another knowing power. Once the artist has an intuition he “chooses” a form or forms under which he will create his work. Thus, the form comes second. Likewise, the critic must respond to the work before judging the form. This is not to say that form is not important. The artifact exists only in and through the form. But the form itself must be judged as a means to an end, the end being a work expressive of an intuition.
What does it mean, then, to say you like jazz or you like classical music? It means you like many or most of the pieces that have been done in one or the other of these forms. And it further means that these forms, as means to an end, allow the works which are created under them to be expressive of things which are pleasing to you and in such a way as to be pleasing to you. For every form will place its own limitations on the work along with making its own contributions.
Which is better, jazz or classical music? Keeping in mind the above limits on generalization about the forms of music, the question becomes whether we can define “Jazz” and “Classical” in such a way that the two are sufficiently distinguished as to exclude each other, and then to decide whether good pieces of music can be produced under the forms as defined.
Here we must distinguish between two meanings of the word “fmm.” There is a scientific or technical meaning of this word under which there are'such distinctions as symphony, opera, fugue, polytonality, etc. The other is the more properly artistic definition which refers to the “human” elements in art. Here such types
this and call Fever a great song.)
are distinguished as romantic, classical, impressionistic, and expressionists.
The first distinction will be of little use in making a value judgment regarding the relative merits of the classics and jazz. For it is clear that almost any structure or technical device can be used in producing a good piece of music. (I’ll even include rock and roll in
The problem here, of
course, is the quantity of good work that can be produced under such a form; and we cannot answer this question in regards to jazz at this stage.	*
But a more important reason why this first distinction does us little good is that, from the beginning, jazz has been using many, if not all, of the same structural' and technical forms as classical music. You can find, for instance, almost any harmonic system or melodic structure being used by exponents -of modem jazz. Porgy and Bess, accepted at Milan last year, is an opera written in the Jazz idiom; and orchestral structures have been used considerably. (You can flip a coin * about Rhapsody in Blue.) Again, therefore, our question cannot be answered when viewed from this standpoint.
Trying to define jazz and classical music from the esthetic viewpoint, we run into further difficulties. “Classical,” for instance, can be restricted to the works of Bach, Haydn, and Mozart. This is ceitainly not our meaning. “The Classics” refer to those works which have been recognized as artistically superior over the years. If this definition is accepted, I lose * the argument to a petitio principii. For purposes of vagueness and confusion, I will define classical music as serious music of the European tradition.
SWING, THE COMMON DENOMINATOR	«
No one has ever adequately defined jazz. Professionals usually say that the minimum requirements for a jazz musician is that he “swings.” Swing is not a definition of jazz. At best it is a common denominator; but let us use it for the * time being. New composers of the European tradition have used jazz rhythms, so this is not the exclusive definition we are looking for. But it seems to cover jazz universally; and objections are made against jazz from this definition.
If jazz is limited to a definite rhythm, it seems that the quantity of good music it can produce is already limited by a *	'
structural form. This is true to a certain extent. As we have pointed out, however, jazz can still make use of all the 4 * forms of classical music; and serious composers have never been afraid to use jazz rhythms.	* I ।
A more serious objection to jazz under this definition comes from the artistic viewpoint. Swing itself has never * ' * been defined musically. The closest thing to a definition I have seen is the rather arbitrary “music that makes your foot 4 tap.” Thus it is defined as an emotional effect. Now doesn’t -this quality of jazz, that of producing a	limited emotional
effect, also limit the expressiveness of the	form?	In answer	.
to this, I would point out first that there	is an	irreducible * 1
matter of taste involved in the objection	as to	how much	.
music of the same rhythmic structure and the same emotional * effect an individual will appreciate. Secondly, these are only | generically the same and, therefore, allow a much wider varia- •* r tion than would first be apparent. As to the extent of this | variety, I can only point to individual examples. The album, 4 Fontessa, by the Modem Jazz Quartet (Atlantic 1231) is a I good one.	f' y
But the most important conclusion from all this is that, F from the standpoint of making esthetic value judgments about * individual pieces of music, we have seen no essential difference between jazz and classical music. The quality of swing is the * most substantial difference we have come up with. And we have shown that this will not serve our purpose not only be- -<* VV cause classical composers have legitimately used it but also ft because it is a means of artistic expression entirely as valid M m as many of the forms of “serious music of the European tra- 11 dition.” Why, then does there appear to be a higher per-	♦#§
centage of good music among the classics than in jazz? Simply ; | because most of the classical music we hear was written a long time ago and must have been worth something to stay Li around so long.
The Scholastic >1
20
On the other hand, the majority of serious activity today is going on in jazz, great composers of the European tradition notwithstanding. This is obvious in America, and I understand it is true of the younger generation on the other side of the Atlantic. This abundance of activity is bound to produce quite a bit of bad music along with the good. There > was probably just as much bad music written in the other tradition, while the majority of activity was in that field, as > there is among the serious jazz musicians today. These days we call it “unswinging.” In Tchaikofsky’s day, they probably ;. called it “unswelling.” And in Mitch Miller’s, “unselling.” But for the listener, the fine music that is being played by v jazz men is of more importance.
There is another aspect of jazz which must be considered > in relation to its capacity to produce good music and good music in quantity, improvisation. After all, how can an , improviser, expressing his ideas immediately and spontaneously, express them to the perfection with the perfection of a t composer who might spend weeks oi- months on a piece?
Ultimately, the answer to this is in the nature of music itself. I doubt whether improvisation can be done successfully in any of the othei- arts. Music is the purest and spiritual art form in the sense that the matter and form are more perfectly united in it than in any other. That is, there is a i more complete identity between the idea and the expression of the idea. A musical idea is an ordered series of tones. The expression of the idea is an instrument or a group of them playing the ordered series of tones. So, to the improviser’s advantage, the process from his intuition to the artifact, the solo, leaves out many of the intermediary steps the other > arts must take. (This assumes, of course, that the soloist has ideas.)
MATHEMATICS AND PURITY
* There is more to it than that. For it to be a time work of art, the improvisation must be composed of completely developed ideas. And isn’t this exactly where improvisation is limited? To answer this, we must point to another aspect of ’ music, related to its purity. It is the most scientific or mathematical of the arts. (Being the most mathematical may place ’ it lower on the scale of the arts, but this is no place to go into that.) The musician, improviser, or composer, has certain rules he must follow and certain defined structures he can use to express and develop an idea. These include mathe-’ matical relations extant in all rhythm and harmony along with a melodic structure such as the fugue. Technical mas-f tery of these is the condition for an improviser to develop a musical idea well. Can a musician achieve such skill as to be
’ able to apply these forms in spontaneous compositions? Yes. They do. They are only rules which have to be learned, difficult as they may be. For proof I refer you to Brubeck, Monk, Muligan, etc.
“ Of course, the ultimate esthetic value of an improvisation must come from the original musical idea the soloist is working with. An artist cannot possibly have good ideas at all times. Now won’t this limitation affect someone who depends on immediate spontaneity of ideas more than one who has considerable time to create a piece? Yes. But this is an over-simplication. Today, through the medium of recordings, we can listen to the best improvisations selected from many of varying value.
This objection brings up another point essential to the • esthetics of jazz, the positive contributions of improvisation. This is a method of creating that gives properties to jazz which distinguish it sharply against classical music from both artistic and mechanical considerations. The technique of spontaneous composition has resulted in music developed linearly in structures quite unlike those of traditional serious music and which do not impede the use of any of the technical devices I have mentioned. Scientific analysis of these forms growing out of free improvisation is not yet out of the embryonic stage. Leonard Bernstein has something to say about this on his jazz album rightly emphasizing the linear character of the music. And these forms definitely have a contribution to : make in producing good pieces of music.
The humanistic effects of improvisation go hand in hand i with, are complimentary to, and are perhaps more important । than those emotional effects which we loosely referred to as । swing. There is a listening value involved here quite different j October 2, 1959
from that of listening to a composition. To hear an idea, a rhythmically syncopated idea, stated spontaneously with its inception and developed freely immediately upon being stated -by the mind of the soloist, creates a very different artistic experience from that of listening to a written work. And each improvisation creates a new experience of this type.
A striking example of the emotional difference between composed and spontaneous music and of the esthetic value of the latter is the work of Dave Brubeck. He achieves a high degree of perfection with linear improvisations that are logically complete and emotionally emphatic. In fact, his improvisational skill is so well developed that, while he is recognized in jazz as a good composer, he achieves better music in his improvisations than in his compositions. If a law were passed against improvisations, at least this particular artist would be prevented from doing his best work.
Thus also, there is much to be said for hearing a performer improvise in person, even though no musician will claim that he is always going to have a “good night.”
DIFFERENCE IS SOURCE
In improvisation and swing, then, we have found elements which distinguish jazz from classical music. But are these distinctions sufficient to allow an answer to our questions? No. I defined classical music as “serious music in the European tradition.” Under this definition are included many and widely varying artistic divisions and types, each with its own values and limitations. At the same time jazz is a music form with its own values and contributions to make to good and/or serious music, and contributions which can have just as much worth as those of the types of clasical music. In fact, the only difference between the two may be that jazz comes from America rather than Europe.	.
From these considerations, our original question can log- ' ically be answered in only one way. Which is better, jazz or classical music? Jazz.
21
NFCCS by JIM O’ROURKE
A little over a month ago, while most collegians were soaking up their last bits of summer sun, the representatives of more than 125,000 Catholic college students convened in St. Louis. The sixteenth national congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students started off with an impressive but familiar theme — “The Catholic College Student in a Pluralistic Society-Commitment to Intellectual Excellence.”
Notre Dame’s delegation, one of the largest, was composed of Tom Geil, cochairman of the Catholic Action Study Bureau, Dave Offut, former assistant to the president of NFCCS, Jim O’Rourke, Bill Scheckler, and Tom Scanlon. Of these five men, three were elected to national office, evincing Notre Dame’s leadership in the federation.
As the keynote speaker, the Rev. Robert J. Henle, S.J., Dean of the Graduate School at St. Louis University, expanded on the theme of the congress. He spoke at the first plenary session emphasizing the need for Catholics, and especially Catholic students, to play their role in the pluralistic society of America.
“SHOULD EXERT THEMSELVES DYNAMICALLY”
Father Henle brought out the fact that there has never been a society equal to that of present-day America in variety of needs, factions, and ideologies. For that reason Catholics should not feel that they have to be “secular” in their societal actions. Rather, they should exert themselves dynamically and constantly as members of the Catholic Church and advocates of the true faith. To be silent, to try to be indifferent to the discord between faiths, or to shield any intellectual clash of viewpoints, only generates mediocrity and creates a complacency that is traditionally unAmerican.
One of the highlights of the congress was the presentations of the National Academic Program by Bernie Martin, former Student Affairs Vice-President. Research on the program began in 1957 and culminated in Bernie’s report to the entire congress. It aroused much interest among the delegates and has hopes of being one of the most effective programs ever instituted.
The purpose of the program is to investigate the many and pressing difficulties attendant upon higher education; to attempt to devise some tentative solutions to these problems; and to suggest to the college community ways and means by which students can implement some of the proposed solutions.
Since the student point of view would be the representation of only one faction in the college community, three groups of participants are included — students, faculty, and members of the administra
tion. The number of participants will be as many as possible. One of the purposes of this program is to create an “awareness” among students of the problems of Catholic higher education. Here at Notre Dame, a program of this sort should be of very great importance, and we hope to carry it out and involve as many students as possible.
The procedure of the program is split up into a few stages. The first stage will occur on all member campuses of the federation during the last week in October. During this week, two or three dis-
JIM O’ROURKE
cussion sessions will take place from which a report will be compiled. The discussions will be concerned with just what “problems” do face the educational community.
Finally, on the national level, a weeklong meeting will be held during the summer of 1960. The regional report will be used as a working paper, and prominent educators will address the body. In order to analyze the problems adequately, the meeting will divide into two different types of workshops. The first will be composed of panels made up of members of the three groups; i.e., administration participants will discuss their problems and attitudes with other administration members from other campuses, students will discuss their situation with other students, etc. The second main workshop will be composed of members of all three participating groups. The minutes of the national meeting will be compiled into a final report which will be sent to all the campuses in the Federation.
One of the most important and controversial sessions of the National Congress is the one which considers policy resolutions. It is always characterized by fiery debate, and the nature of this year’s resolutions did not allow an exception. A basic policy statement expresses a fundamental stand of NFCCS and can
be passed, amended, or repealed only by a two-thirds vote of the National Congress.	<(
The Notre Dame delegation presented three resolutions to the congress, all of which were passed. Probably the most * important concerned freedom of the col- 4 lege press.
In part, it reads:	«
“Whereas: The freedom to discuss reasonable opinions and to criticize rationally the varying aspects of human society are vital to the growth of a democratic social order; and . . .
Whereas: The means available to ex- 4 press student opinion publicly are often too limited, either by regulatory restriction or non-existence of a suitable publication; and ...	4
Whereas: The university and college student of today, when sufficiently educated and prudently selected by his contemporaries, is capable, demonstrating good taste, diplomacy and correct journalistic expression while he is serving in 4 an editorial capacity for a student publication ; Therefore	4
Be It Resolved-. That a basic policy of the NFCCS shall be the disapproval 4 of regulations or restrictions which unnecessarily stifle the free and prudent 4 exchange, growth and expression of student thought, opinion, find criticism ...” -4
The second resolution proposed by Notre Dame, and passed by the congress, * was one dealing with partisan political groups. It emphasized the pressing need for American college students to recognize their political responsibilities and 4 for the colleges themselves to realize their educational duty in the political 4 sphere.
BABBITT ON “ . . . STUDENT
GOVERNMENT”	”
Previous to the convention, and also in the Sheraton-Jefferson hotel, the Student Government President’s Conference was conducted from Friday morning to Monday evening. Bruce Babbitt spoke y at an afternoon session on “The power and function of student government,” 4 and was very well received. In conjunction with this conference, an interna- 4 tional student workshop was held. It was addressed by Joe Taderera of Fort « Victoria, Southern Rhodesia, and now a student at the University of Notre Dame -♦ undei- the sponsorship of the Foreign Student Leadership Project of the 4 N.S.A.
The main body of this report was con- 4 cerned with the Federation’s actions as \ the voice of America’s Catholic college * § students. The other role of the Federa- j tion is one of service to the member « schools. We cannot say that represen- 1 tation is not service, but service, in a	*'
strict sense, manifests itself in more	|
concrete ways. The Summer Congress	1
is the time for formulation of policies ; and programs; the school year affords M : the opportunity to put the programs in- 5 to effect. During the next eight months * i the service role of the Federation will be experienced by the student members, not merely explained to them in an article such as this.
22
The Scholastic
:	NSA
The United States National Student Association is a confederation of college '■ student bodies represented through their student governments. With some 420 > member schools representing 1,200,000 students, the Association is the largest representative national student organization in the world.
’ This year the twelfth National Student Congress of U.S.N.S.A. was held at the University of Illinois at Champaign, Ill. Our delegation was composed of
* Bruce Babbitt, Denny Shaul, John Kee-y gan, Armando Loizaga, Andrew Lawlor, Joseph Della Maria, and Charles Rieck.
J v Denny Shaul and Armando Loizaga were i members of the national executive com> mittee, and Charles Rieck attended the t student editorial affairs conference.
| The greatest single quality possessed | " by the nearly 1,200 delegates, alternates, t > and observers attending the Congress । was an intense eagerness to demonstrate ■ j,. the maturity and intelligent responsibil-j ity of the American student. Represen-v tatives of approximately 400 member schools, a large number of observing :	schools, and the majority of the student
associations of the world were assembled >. to discuss problems affecting students in America and the world.
f, Following the welcoming plenary session the congress was divided into 32 sub-commission areas to discuss in detail special areas of student interest and >, activity. Human relations, leadership
i(>	JOHN KEEGAN
p training, the educational community, reS lations with civil governments, economic welfare, student exchange, freshman orientation, and educational travel were several of these sub-commission areas.
After six days of detailed investiga-A tion, discussion, and debate, the sub-5 commissions assembled into their four A main commission areas of student gov-
1 . October 2, 1959
’d	-	’
by JOHN KEEGAN and ARMANDO LOIZAGA
ernment, educational affairs, student affairs, and international affairs, where each of the resolutions from the subcommissions were again discussed and debated to develop a broader outlook for the participants.
Finally, all of the resolutions from the four commissions were evaluated by the N.E.C. and were introduced in the plenary sessions the final four days of the congress where they were acted upon by the whole congress.
The result of the whole process was that what began as a resolution of a small group of students concentrating on a small area of student activity became the voice of a million students through their representation at the Congress. And each of the participants had an opportunity to view and discuss the total area of a student activity. In addition to these formal sessions, participants discussed these topics at all times of the day and night.
ND’S SHAUL HAMMERS AT COMMUNISM
Since the complete schedule of events at the Congress have been already mentioned, let us now view the wide area of legislation which was presented here. The legislation represented many different important points of view by a multitude of students.
Probably the most significant and worthwhile piece of legislation passed was the one concerning Communism. This legislation squelched the idea in many people’s minds that N.S.A. was a Communistic front. Many of the South-era schools were on the verge of withdrawal from the organization if N.S.A. did not take a formidable stand on this issue. As a result N.S.A. did just that. It condemned Communism in all its forms on the basis of its suppression of individual thought. This resolution was excellently presented by Notre Dame’s former student body president, Denny Shaul.
One of the main objections to the Congress by the participants was the fact that many of them came there without having given enough preliminary thought and consideration to the legislation. However, it would be very impractical for most of the legislation to be preconsidered because of its vanability and instantaneous alterations. But from this objection developed “project awareness.” John Keegan, student senate secretary, was one of the authors of this resolution. “Project awareness” is the development of one topic of universal student appeal which would be decided upon by the 17 regions comprising N.S.A. by January of the coming year. Then the topic would be presented to
ARMANDO LOIZAGA
the respective campuses under N.S.A. for intelligent discussion, and consideration. Thus, at least one topic of information would be disseminated to all the member campuses of this organization.
In retrospect our affiliation with / N.S.A. has been very fruitful. Such / projects as oui- student forum which was a tremendous success last year and is to/ be continued this year, originated through^ N.S.A. programming. Also, our leadership development program which is handled on campus by the Blue Circle a!nd has cultivated many new ideas in /the past for our student body also started in N.S.A. Some of the projects and programs which we received from the congress this year and hope to put,into effect on campus are the “Student Dis-
count Service,” the
’utor So-
ciety,” and “Project Awareness.” The most important of these projects will be the “Student Discount Service.” The primary aim of this project is to have the merchants both downtown and on campus give the Notre Dame students a reduction which they necessarily need as members of the educational community. We do not look upon the “Student Discount Sei-vice” /program as the, best solution to the financial problems of Notre Dame students, but rather as an immediate and practical method for reducing the over-all cost of student education. At the iirst Senate meeting a committee will be formed to tackle this problem with the hope of setting up such a program on/campus.
IN THE FUTURE-FREE TUTORING
Also a committee will be formed to investigate the possibility of setting up a “Student Tutor Society” on campus. The three main goals of this organization /will be 1) to provide instruction free of charge (or at a reasonable price) to those students who are financially unable to afford it and who have a sincere desire to improve their scholastic standing; 2) to stimulate among the student /body an increased interest in the teach-(Continued on Page 25)
A New \ear
Student Government
by Bruce Babbitt
“What we need around this University is a revolution a week.” These words may be typical of a cynical senior,
but used dent dent
they were by the stu-body presi-in a 1955
Scholastic article. The revolu-
tion a
week
which he had in mind was that of student opinion and thought which could be used to the betterment of student government and the University community.
I suppose that each new student government has ideas for effecting great change which will distinguish it from previous years — the fact is that significant programs are not the result of one resolution or meeting. Rather, they are the result of many small and usually uncolorful steps taken over a sustained period of time. Rather than discuss concepts or histories of student government, I would prefer to discuss what we are actually doing and hope that from that you will draw your own conclusions as to the value and progress of student government.
volving foreign students from that area as well as professors versed in that particular field. A travel coordinator has been appointed and he will soon be disseminating information on the many low cost student summer tours to all parts of the world.	.
The question of partisan political activity on campus has interested many, particularly since permission was granted by the administration last year for this type of activity. I have appointed a committee of foui- people to undertake organization of Republican and Democrat groups and to plan initial programs and educational talks for them. These groups should get underway within a month.
Several projects carried over from last year also deserve mention. The much discussed plan submitted by the Student Senate for a student editorial review was turned down by the administration during the summer. The results of the poll on permanent hall residence showed the majority of students to be in favor of the plan, although the margin was close enough that I do not feel that a definite plan should be presented to the administration at the present time. Nonetheless, I think that most upperclassmen would agree that sentiment for the plan grows stronger each year, and for that reason a group will be appointed to continually re-evaluate the program.
PROGRAMS IN ACADEMIC SPHERE
*
4

Your first contact with student government each year is upon paying your activity fee — this year many freshmen wondered why they pay it and many upperclassmen wondered why the 25c increase. The 25c increase was voted by the Senate last spring to pay increased dues to the national Catholic student organization, and it is an increase which I find difficulty in justifying in light of benefits derived from the organization. What is done with the other ten thousand dollars of your activity fee will be the subject of the remainder of this article.
The social program for the fall semester, underwritten by the activity fee, will feature a continuation of the Saturday night victory dances featuring such outside entertainment as Dave’s Band from the University of Indiana. A Friday night all school dance in October will feature Buddy Morrow, and there is a possibility of big name entertainment on campus later in the fall.
FOREIGN STUDENT PLAN PROSPERS
A completely new program being undertaken in cooperation with the National Student Association involves sponsoring a foreign student leader from Africa at Notre Dame this year. Joe Taderera was first met by Father Hesburgh in Africa several years ago, and since that time Joe has been a leader in the student movement of Southern Rhodesia, a country faced with a myriad of problems, including apartheid, which are typical in the rapidly emerging continent of Africa. The importance of financing this type of program can be visualized when one realizes that when Joe returns to Southern Rhodesia upon completion of medical school he will be approximately the seventh African doctor in a country of two million inhabitants. If you see him around campus, introduce yourself and trade a few ideas with him. Another item on the international program for the year is the planning of a number of seminars dealing with particular areas of the world and in-
24
Any student government must emphasize the academic nature of a university, and in this vein the academic commission will be sponsoring the student forums, initiating hall discussion groups, and contracting outside lecturers. An attempt ” will be made through the college advisory boards to reevaluate the freshman advisory program which is now al- "* most non-existent in some colleges. Another program which I have high hopes of reactivating is the program whereby students formerly went back to their hometown schools to inform the superior student of the advantages of attending * Notre Dame.
The Hall Presidents’ Council will take on a new complexion this year and will receive increased emphasis in accordance with the thought that for student government to touch you * as an individual it must be done through the halls. Father Me- 4 Carragher will devote a substantial amount of his time to becoming the first official moderator for that group.	<
Other traditional projects such as the Mardi Gras are underway, and as usual a substantial amount of student scholar- 4 ship aid, charities and other projects will come from the proceeds. The Dukes of Dixieland have been scheduled to provide entertainment on that week end. The second annual collegiate jazz festival has been scheduled for the spring with 0 such notables as Benny Goodman serving in an advisory capacity. There is a fair possibility of re-establishing the old < tradition of outdoor pep rallies, complete with bonfires. /
I could not close without reference to a somewhat nebulous / ■* project which only an optimist would foresee as capable of/ being achieved in the immediate future — that of an academic .< honor system. A number of years ago this issue was turned down in a student referendum. There is no indication that J sentiment has changed since then; nonetheless, I consider it a . goal always to be sought after.	/
Finally, I hope that each one of you will consider ruhning for office in the coming elections; if not I hope that you will take a few moments to urge some other qualified candidate to run. Student Government is you.	I
. 1 / .
The /Scholastic
*

*



4
•I

t-
(Continued from page, 23) ing profession; and 3) to contribute to the scholarship and to the intellectual atmosphere of our University.
It is obvious from the above that N.S.A. has been a very worthwhile affiliation for Notre Dame. It has given to the Notre Dame students many beneficial programs which have complemented their curricula and general programming. It has offered a numerous amount of opportunities for creative thinking and leadership in many realms. All in all N.S.A. has served as a birthplace for/ most of the college and university student planning in the United States. N.S.A. has always been a challenge. Notre Dame has met in the past, has kept up with it at the present, and wezhope will inevitably meet it in the future. If it is to do this then it must rely upon the student body, for encouragement and support through your ideas and' willingness to devote yourself to the /brganiza-tion. N.S.A. is not made up of 1200 student leaders, but rathei* of 1,200,000 students. It is our organization representing the ideas and ideals of the
American student.
merican stu-
dent through N.S.A. becomes cognizant
his
not only of his role as h student in the educational community/but also of role as an American citizen.
4'
»■


t-


Pink Slip Primer
(Continued from page 17) among the different facets of collegiate activity which have quite disparate values. At /the “Freshman Activities Night” last/week, a certain shyness or hesitancy ip join any activities was reflected in /many of the questions asked by newcomers. In some cases this feeling seems to border on fear of the unknown./This attitude is certainly better than the extreme position of joining every/ activity in sight, but it is not necessary. As Dr. Burke has pointed out/ again and again, if each student would spend half of his free time each week in concentrated study, most failures could be eliminated. This certainly does /not preclude the joining of one good / activity.
In order to help you budget your time Dr. Burke has given you charts to fill in, charts which show your self-assigned study times; At their best, these can only represent an ideal week of study. In the more practical order you can and must find out for yourself the length of time and the hours of the day which you can use for the most profitable study.
In the final analysis, all of the important decisions are up to you (see editorials) . Just as it was your choice to come here, likewise it is up to you whether you wear a cap and gown in 1963. The time to make these decisions is now.
First article of a series. Next week a member of the faculty writes on “Helpfid Hints for Freshmen.”
October 2, 1959
/ _ .
Lobund Laboratory Studies Vaccine Results; Dr. Ward to Disclose Findings to Six Weeks
Complex, changing, and costly, best describe the problem of conquering the comihon cold.
Research to develop an effective cold vaccine is being carried on, among other places, in Notre Dame’s own Lobund Laboratories, where the program is un-/der the direction of Dr. Thomas G.
Ward, professor of virology.
The present work of Dr. Ward and his staff is concerned mainly with evaluating the results of last year’s campuswide cold vaccine and cold survey program.
Students shot. In last year’s program, one group of students was given shots of an experimental cold vaccine; another group was given injections of a neutral solution, and another group was given no shots. During the course of the year, the incidence of colds in each group was noted by the infirmary staff and by random checks in various halls.
Dr. Ward will not have any definite findings to release for another six weeks, and it will probably take another two years to fully determine the effectiveness, or the lack of it, of the experimental vaccine.
The consensus of the medical profession is that an effective cold vaccine will be much harder to develop than was the Salk polio vaccine. For one thing, medical science has isolated no fewer than 23 separate viruses which are known to cause colds, and no one really knows how many more may exist. Moreover, new viruses are constantly evolving as old ones die out, thus the researcher has to work continually merely to keep his knowledge up to date. Also, some colds are not caused by viruses, but are early stages of some other illness which the victim has enough resistance to fight off; other colds are caused by allergies, and still others by bacteria.
Vaccine here sooner. Some researchers believe that it will take 10 or 15 years to produce a practical and effective vaccine. However, Dr. Ward is in-
The Notre Dame
Campus Literary Journal	,
invites students to submit manuscripts of their poetry, fiction, and essays to
THE EDITORS, 316 Walsh
Deadline for the Autumn issue: Oct. 8
Subscriptions: the three issues, over 200 pages of student writing and painting, delivered to your room. One dollar.
* *
DR. WARD
Still working
another theory which, if
vestigating
verified, may bring such a vaccine much sooner. This theory involves antigens, the cold-producing toxins carried by the different viruses.
Dr. Ward believes it possible that only 9 to 15 viruses may contain all the different types* of cold-producing antigens, and that combinations of these antigens are common to all strains of viruses that cause colds. Should this be true, a vaccine giving protection against these 9 to 15 viruses would be reasonably effective against all virus-caused colds.
It will take a couple of years to confirm or disprove this theory. Meanwhile, Dr. Ward plans no further tests directly involving the students for fear of interfering with the continuing effects of . last year’s program. The number of cold cases referred to the infirmary will ' continue to be noted, however.	.
DOUGHNUTS YOU CAN’T DUNK
These bizarre-looking underpinnings have taken a lot of the risk out of ticklish overwater helicopter operations. Tough and lightweight, they can he inflated in a few seconds. They’re made of neoprene-coated nylon fabric.
This year nylon, product of Du Pont research, is 20 years old. Since its discovery, hundreds of new jobs have been created. To improve it in the laboratory. To make it in the plant. To find new uses. To advertise it across the nation. To sell it in world markets. These new jobs range from trainee to administrator.
At Du Pont, our business is to discover the undiscovered. We don’t find a nylon every year, but we come out with new products often exciting in their degree of improvement over the old. New plastics like “Teflon”* fluorocarbon resins, new finishes like “Lucite”* acrylic automotive finishes, new families of products like the polyesters — “Dacron”* polyester fiber, “Mylar”* polyester film, “Cronar”* polyester film base.
26
Better Things for Better Living... through Chemistry
How does all this affect you?
When you join Du Pont you and your future are backed by research, and its promise of growth. Each year more jobs are created, all the way to the top.
At the bottom rung of the technical graduate’s ladder, you are given an actual project assignment almost at once and begin to learn your job by doing it. All training is personalized—tailored to your background and interests. It permits periodic evaluation of your performance. Our promotion policies are based on the conviction that you should work at the top of your ability. It stands to reason, then, that the better your training, the more rapid your rise is likely to be — and the brighter your future.
If you would like to know more about career opportunities where growth through research has been the history and continues as the objective, see your placement officer for literature, or write E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co (Inc.), 2420 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
* Registered Du Pont Trademarks
Tl—
Pictol*
KUHARICH’S SURPRISING IRISH FACE PURDUE
by JAY KILROY
The Notre Dame football team, fresh from a first-game 28-8 triumph over North Carolina, travels to Lafayette, Y Ind., tomorrow where they meet a strong Purdue Boilermaker squad. The game will be the second of the season for both squads. The Boilermakers have a veteran .squad this season and have been picked by many sports writers for the Big Ten title.
Purdue surprised. Purdue opened its season a week earlier than the Irish
RON MALTONY
Purdue All-American candidate
this year, journeying to Los Angeles on September 18 where they were tied by a surprising UCLA squad, 0-0.
In that game, the first scoring opportunity for either team came in the third period. Boilermaker Leonard Jardine, a senior end, recovered a UCLA fumble on the Bruin 39, and from there the Boilermakers moved the ball down to the eight. However, halfback Leonard Wilson fumbled a pitchout and UCLA recovered, ending the Purdue threat.
Both teams missed field goal tries in the last five minutes. After an unsuccessful attempt by the Bruins, Purdue moved the ball to the UCLA four-yard line. But quarterback Bernie Allen’s field-goal attempt with 90 seconds remaining was low and to the right and the game ended in a scoreless tie.
Last week Purdue was idle, giving them ample time to prepare for their home opener against the Irish.
Because of the open date last Saturday, the Boilermaker coaching staff had an excellent opportunity to scout the Kuharich offense.
This year’s Purdue squad has 23 let
termen from last fall’s squad which finished with an impressive 6-1-2 record.
Mollenkopf’s problems. The main problems which Coach Jack Mollenkopf has faced are concentrated at the end and tackle positions. Gone from the end position are Tom Franckhauser and John Crowl, both outstanding performers for the 1958 Boilermakers. Four top tackles from the 1958 squad have also departed. One of these four, Gene Selawski, had 323 minutes of playing time, the second high on the squad.
Senior Co-captain Leonard Jardine, an outstanding defensive ball player during the past two seasons, and Dick Brooks, the “ironman” of the squad last year with 328% playing minutes, are the top returning ends. Also returning is Fran Anastasis, a seasoned performer who was injured last season.
Leading the returning tackles are senior lettermen Jerry Beabout and Bob Becker. Beabout was voted the “most improved player” last fall while Becker was a reserve who finally made his presence known near the end of the season. Kenneth Kraus is an outstanding sophomore tackle prospect and should play a great part of the time.
All-America candidate. Ron Maltony, a junior, and seniors John Ciccone and Fred Brandel head a large group of rugged guards. Maltony gained All-Conference honors as a sophomore last year and this year is a candidate for AllAmerica honors. Brandel was a na
DABIERO BREAKS INTO THE SECONDARY
Pint-sized Irish seatback sees daylight ahead as Rip Slusser (27) of the Tar Heels tries for shoestring tackle. Gerry Gray and Mike Muehlbauer lead the way. This action occurred early in the fourth quarter of the 28-8 Irish win over North Carolina.
tional “lineman of the week” in Purdue’s upset of Michigan State in 1957. Ciccone has been a key performer for the past two seasons.
Senior Co-captain Sam Joyner and Terry Sheehan, a senior, provide the Boilermakers with power and experience at the center position. Joyner was one of the workhorses of last fall’s squad when he played 301 minutes. Sheehan, despite recurrent injuries, has proven to be a capable replacement.
Vetei-an Ross Fichtner, a top passer and also a dangerous runner, returns at the quarterback position for Purdue. Fichtner was outstanding in the Boilermaker upset of Notre Dame in 1958. Sophomore Herbert McGuire has also shown great promise.
Purdue will have its usual speedy and powerful halfbacks again this fall. Returning to the position are three seniors, Leonard Wilson, Clyde Washington, and Joe Kulbacki. Wilson had the most playing time of the backfield last fall in addition to being the second leading ground gainer. Washington gained 230 yards rushing last season and also had a 36-yard punting average.
The Boilermaker fullback again this fall is Bob Jarus. A strong contender for All-American honors, Jaras led the squad in scoring with ten touchdowns in 1958. He was also the leading ground gainer with 396 yards. Senior Jack Laraway will play behind Jaras. Last fall he was runner-up in scoring honors and was fifth in ground gaining.
October 2, 1959
27
Irish Netters Capture First in NCAA Tourney
Notre Dame’s 1959 tennis team ended a most successful season by finishing in a tie with Tulane for first place in the NCAA tennis tournament held June 2329 at Evanston, Ill.
The Irish, having a record of 14 victories and no losses in regular season competition, and also winners in a quadrangular meet, were represented by Max Brown, Don Ralph, Ron Schoenberg, and Bill Heinbecker.
Twenty-seven teams participated in the tournament and each squad was allowed to play four men. The total score of a team was determined by the number of wins of the individual members of that team. Each member played until eliminated by a loss.
Brown, Notre Dame’s number one man throughout most of the year, advanced to the semi-final round before being defeated by Whitney Reed of San Jose State. Reed later defeated Don Dell of Yale for the singles title.
Brown’s victory over Ron Holmberg of Tulane by a score of 6-3, 6-4, as it turned out was a major and necessary victory for the Irish.
Don Ralph, number two man during regular season play for the Irish, also was outstanding, advancing to the fourth round before being eliminated.
In doubles competition, Brown teamed with Heinbecker and they advanced to the finals, losing to Holmberg and Crawford Henry of Tulane. Notre Dame’s other doubles entry of Ralph and Schoenberg also proved to be effective before going down to defeat in the quarter-finals.
Notre Dame and Tulane each had a total of eight points, tying for first place. San Jose State, Yale, Stanford, and Miami placed close behind the winners.
Sailors Tie for First Invite All to Meetings
Notre Dame’s sailing team tied for first place with Michigan in the Eagle Lake Regatta, their first meet of the year. The regatta was hosted by the Irish. Seven tea^ns competed with Wisconsin placing third and Purdue fourth.
Racing started under threatening weather Saturday morning with Dan Schuster skippering “A” and Mickey Pavia skippering “B.” The racing continued until sundown at which time Michigan and the Irish were tied for first.
On Sunday Notre Dame used their leading sophomore skippers Frank Bohlen and Bud Rose who managed to stay even with Michigan and complete the race in a tie for first place.
This week end Notre Dame will be sailing Y-class sloops at Orchard Lake in Detroit.
Sailing team meetings are held every Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 209 Engineering Building. Anyone who is interested in sailing is invited to attend.
Schuster Leading ND Open; Six Linksters Tied for Third
Phil Schuster shot a one-under-par 70 last Sunday to take the lead in the annual University Open golf tournament. The remaining 54 holes of the tourney will be played this week end with one round on Saturday and two rounds on Sunday.
Schuster, a junior and a member of the varsity golf team last year, carded identical nines of 35. His round included three birdies and two bogeys.
Senior Bill Aggresta is in second place with an even-par 71. Aggresta played the outgoing nine in 38 strokes but came back with a fine 33 on the final nine.
No less than six players are deadlocked for third place at 72. Ray Patak,
SCHUSTER SIGNS CARD
Ray Patak (left) and Bruce Odlaug (right) check ND Open leader’s card.
Bruce Odlaug, Eric Vandagrift, Jack Whitaker, Tommy Grace, and George Mack all toured the Burke Memorial links in one-over the regulation figure.
Odlaug’s round was the most inconsistent of the five. He had one birdie and four bogeys on the front nine for an unspectacular 39. But on the back nine the sophomore Irish linkster knocked in four birdies along with two more bogeys. Altogether his card included seven pars, six bogeys, and five birdies.
Terry Lally, captain of the 1960 Notre Dame golfers fired a 73. He is in ninth place going into tomorrow’s 18-hole round. Right behind Lally in tenth place is sophomore Bill Busemeyer. Busemeyer shot a three-over-par 74.
Lally and Patak are the only members of last year’s regular varsity links-men who managed to place in the top ten. Frank Hund, Cristy Flanagan, Budd Zesinger, and Jim Stahl are well back in the field with rounds of 76 and 77.
ODDS and ENDS
Pittsburgh publicity man, Carroll Cook, 1 reports that Iowa did the best job of recruiting high school football stars from Pennsylvania, a state famous for its talented gridders. Notre Dame was a close second he adds. . . .
Keep your eye on Lynn Gaskill, sophomore half-back from Southern Cal. Gaskill, , the fleet-footed star of the Trojan frosh last year, scored two touchdowns in the * opening game against Oregon State. . . .
Frank Finnegan, outfielder on the Irish baseball squad which opened drills this past Monday, led his Waterdown, So. Dakota ! team in hitting this past summer with a .320 mark. Finnegan also led the league * in home runs with 13 and RBI’s with 48....
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: Indiana Coach Phil Dickens in emphasizing how inevitable it is that mistakes will be made by his predominantly sophomore squad had this to say: “Telling a sophomore not to make mistakes is like slapping a skunk in , the face and telling it not to stink.” Evidently mistakes were pretty scarce however ( in the Hoosier’s 20-0 win over Illinois last Saturday. ...	i
Oklahoma’s 45-13 loss to Northwestern last Saturday was the worst defeat for Bud Wilkinson in 14 years as head football coach at the Sooner school. In 1947 Texas de- ' feated a Wilkinson-coached Sooner squad, 37-0. ...
Notre Dame boasts the best 25-year football record in the country. The Irish have won 181, lost 46, and tied 13 for .797, a scant .004 of a percentage point ahead of second place Oklahoma. . . .
Carl Yastrzemski, who signed as a bonus player with the Boston Red Sox last year while a sophomore at Notre Dame, is doing very well. Yastrzemski, a shortstop, ' led the Carolina League in hitting with a .377 average while playing for Durham. ' Recently he was called up to Minneapolis where he is now playing in the “Little World Series” against Havana. . . .
<
Last year, LSU sold 9,000 season tickets. This year they sold over 27,000 season ducats. It helps to go undefeated. ...	’
———-— -------------------------------- t
Defending champion Tommy Grace, who won the title as a freshman last year carded a 72 using borrowed clubs while awaiting the arrival of his own clubs from home.
Fifty-five golfers are competing in the * tournament but this field will be reduced to 36 players after Saturday’s round. The * upperclassmen shooting the 18 lowest scores in the tourney will qualify as members of the 1960 varsity. The leaders: Phil Schuster, 35-35—70; Bill Ag- ' gresta, 38-33—71; Bruce Odlaug, 3933—72; George Mack, 37-35—72; Ray » Patak, 37-35—72; Eric Vandagrift, 3636—72; Jack Whitaker, 36-36—72; Ter- * ry Lally, 36-37—73; Bill Busemeyer, 3638—74; Al Highducheck, 40-35—75; Jack Valicenti, 40-35—75; Jim Mark, 36-39—75; Bob Skrzycki, 40-35—75; Bill Wetzel, 37-38—75; Tom Adamson, 40-35—75.
28
The Scholastic
Keenan, J. Van de Walle * Win in Frosh Competition
Winners in the Blue Circle Orientation Athletic Program have been an-► nouncd by Tom Gannon, chairman of the program.
► The first floor of Keenan Hall won the basketball championship by defeat> ing the third floor of Cavanaugh Hall, 15-14. The Keenan frosh survived a ... field of twenty-four teams to reach the finals of the tourney which was played * Sunday on the courts beside the drill hall. Each of the members of the ten-♦ man Keenan squad received a gift certificate from Gilbert’s for the team’s •( victory.
John Van de Walle shot an even par 71 on the final 18 holes to capture the 36-hoIe golf event by two strokes over Pete Bisconti. Van de Walle’s 71 added to his previous day’s score of 76 gave ’ him a five-over-par 147 total. Bisconti also shot 76 on the first day of compe-* tition, but he came back with a 73 to finish with a seven-over-par 149.
& In the 18-hole golf tourney Larry Morgan fired a 41-38—79 to capture first
*■ place by one stroke over Ed Basso. Basso had scores of 40 on both the front and back nines in compiling an 80.
Chairman Gannon disclosed that about ’ 75 golfers competed in the two tournaments. The scores were higher than ' expected, most likely due to the baked-out condition of the fairways. There had been little oi* no rainfall for five weeks prior to the competition.
Both Van de Walle and Morgan received trophies for their victories.
TIME OUT
Tyler Jr. Picks of the Week
' Army over Illinois
LSU over Baylor
Texas over California
Georgia Tech over Clemson >	Oklahoma over Colorado
Indiana over Minnesota -	Wisconsin over Marquette
*	Michigan State over Michigan
SMU over Navy
North Carolina over NC State - Notre Dame over Purdue
Penn State over Colgate
UCLA over Pittsburgh
S Rice over Duke
Tennessee over Mississippi State Vanderbilt over Alabama - Syracuse over Maryland
Dartmouth over Penn
GAME OF THE WEEK
Northwestern over Iowa
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Southern California over. Ohio State (tonight)
Surprise, disbelief, and optimism, all mingled together in one happy combination, are the chief impressions remaining almost one week after Coach Joe Kuharich’s Irish shellacked the North Carolina Tar Heels, 28-8.
As the Notre Dame team travels down to Lafayette today, almost everyone who saw, read, or heard about the Irish conquest in last Saturday’s . opener wonders if Notre Dame is really that good. Can it really be true that a squad which has only twelve lettermen, one which used sixteen players who had never before played in a college football game, and one which had two of its three preseason All-America candidates on the sidelines with knee injuries, is good enough to soundly trounce a North Carolina team which was supposedly one of the best in the country? This question will be answered tomorrow down in Lafayette, Ind.
AMAZING TEAM SPEED
The most amazing and perhaps the most encouraging aspect of the Notre Dame performance against the Tar Heels was team speed, both in the backfield and in the line. Irish halfbacks Sefcik, Dabiero, and Ratkowski constantly swept the ends, managing to turn the corner and get started upfield before being threatened by enemy tacklers; On the slant plays off tackle the guards, Adamson, Pottios, Buoniconti, and Boy pulled out very quickly to deliver devastating angle blocks on the defensive ends. The pass patterns were most effective due partly to the fact that North Carolina was unable to scout the Kuharich offense, but also due to the swift fakes and agility of the Irish pass receivers.
Another aspect of the Notre Dame squad which showed up rather noticeably was its fine conditioning. Near the end of the game the Irish had worn the Tar Heels down physically to a point where the Notre Dame runners were making large gains right through the center of the line. Sophomore fullback Gerry Gray especially was having little trouble denting the defense. Only a series of inopportune penalties prevented the Irish from scoring in the final stanza.
REMARKABLE PRECISION
Two reverse plays which the Irish used were both executed flawlessly, indicating a complete mastery of blocking assignments by Coach Kuharich’s gridders. Evidently the coaching staff has done a remarkable job of familiarizing the players with their new offense. Although there were several mixups in the backfield, Notre Dame looked like a mid-season squad with plenty of self-confidence and decisiveness which one would not expect from such a young team in their first game of the season.
Don White, senior quarterback who was forced to play in the shadow of George Izo’s brilliant passing last year, got a chance to prove his ability against the Tar Heels. He did just that. White called the offensive patterns imaginatively and surprised even his coaches with his passing accuracy under weather conditions which were far from ideal. George Haffner, sophomore signal-caller, displayed promise as a passer also. While the loss of Izo for the first game was unfortunate, it may in the long run prove to have been helpful. White knows now that he can enter the game at any time and be backed by the confidence of his teammates, his coaches, the students, and above all himself.
PSYCHOLOGICALLY PERFECT
In almost every respect the North Carolina game was a perfect way to launch the football year. Coach Kuharich and his staff must feel proud of their squad, especially the sophomores. With a win over a highly regarded ' Tar Heel eleven behind them, these young men upon whom so much depends this year, can face any team in the country with a sure knowledge weaned from experience that they have the ability to compete with the best talent in college football. If winning football games is as much a matter of psychology as Ara Parseghian seems to think it is, then the Boilermakers will have their hands full tomorrow afternoon because psychologically last Saturday’s game was perfect.	’
Is Notre Dame as good as it looked against the Tar Heels? I think so.
I sure hope so. — T.R.
October 2, 1959
29
Rule Changes Seek to Create More Interest; Widening of Goal Posts is Major Innovation
In an effort to improve the brand of football played by the collegians, the NCAA rule makers have introduced several rule changes which should make for a better game. Among these are wider goal posts, increasing the number of timeouts from four to five each half, and a new player substitution ruling.
The goal posts have been enlarged approximately five feet. This will mean that kicks, either field goal attempts or extra points, will have a greater chance of being successful and could affect the outcome of a number of games. This is a move by the rules committee which has been a long time in coming. The college players simply are not as skilled as their professional counterparts in the art of kicking field goals and extra points.
JIM CROTTY
Scored twice against NC
This move should put the field goal back into the college football picture.
Increasing the timeout periods from four to five each half will give the coaches added opportunity to insert a certain player into the game at the desired moment. It will also give the players an added rest period. This can be extremely important when a team is being hard-pressed and needs a time-out to regain its strength or plan its tactics.
The new player substitution ruling states that each time the clock is stopped the coach can substitute one player. In most cases this player substitution will probably involve the quarterback. Since the quarterback is the key figure in most attacks, the coaches prefer to have their field general play only on offense. This will mean that the defensive specialist will return to the gridiron in a limited way. Of course there will be times when it will be impossible for the coach to substitute for his quarterback, in which case
30
the latter will have to share the defensive burden.
Another innovation is the ruling that a player can enter the game twice in the same quarter. Last year only the player who was in on the first play of the quarter could return in that quarter. This may lead to more substitution of entire offensive and defensive platoons. The player who enters the game alone can be substituted any number of times in the quarter so long as the clock is stopped.
In a minor change, no penalty will move the ball more than half the distance to the goal. This means that if a team is on the opposition’s 12-yard line and a 15-yard penalty is assessed against the opposition, the ball can be moved only as far as the opposition’s six-yard line.
These changes should improve the college game and revive some of the spectator appeal that has seemingly been lost. But the success of these innovations can be only rightly judged in December at the end of the 1959 college football season.
—Bill Cary
CORRESPONDENCE WELCOME
The sports staff of the SCHOLASTIC welcomes all comments and inquiries concerning information and opinions expressed in the sports section. Please address all corres-- pondence to:
Sports Editor SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
Letters received by this office will be printed if we feel they are-of interest to the students.
MYRON POTTIOS
Bulwark of Kuharich defense
Irish Harriers Open Drills;
Three Lettermen Returning *
The Notre Dame cross-country team .f is busy readying itself for’ another competitive season. Once again the Irish ’ harriers will be handled by Coach Alex Wilson. The Irish open their cross- « country season on October 9 when they meet the Marquette Warriors in a dual * meet at Milwaukee.
Three lettermen return to lead the ” Wilsonmen’s quest for a successful season. They are seniors Galen Cawley and Dave Cotton and junior Ron Gregory. Cawley will also captain the team. Juniors Dave Wehlege, Dan Rorke, and Dennis Johnston, along with sophomore Tom Dempsey, complete the team. The lone loss from last year’s team is the * graduated Mike Haverty.
Cawley, Cotton, and Gregory give Coach Wilson a solid nucleus around ' which he can build his team. Last year the smooth-striding Gregory finished second in the IC4A and 13th in the NCAA meet. With a year’s experience „ Gregory, along with Cotton and Cawley, should be much improved.
Gregory, who comes from St. Louis, Mo., holds a Notre Dame record in the 1 mile with a 4:10.0 clocking. It is expected that he will better this mark in ' the coming season.
Of the others, Rorke is much improved " and Dempsey is a highly-regarded sophomore. He broke Gregory’s record for the freshman mile last spring with ' a 4:16 clocking.	,
Some of the highlights of this year’s schedule are the Notre Dame Invitational on October 23, the Central Collegiate Conference meet (CCC) on November 14, and the IC4A meet two days ’ later at New York. The NCAA compe- . tition also is set for the latter part of • November. Besides the Marquette meet, i other dual meets have been set for Indi- • : ana at Bloomington on October 16 and Michigan State here at Notre Dame on -October 30.
The team hopes to improve on its sec- .. • ond place finish in the IC4A meet and -also the fourth place achieved in the * NCAA. Two of the top opponents will ; be Michigan State and Western Michi- ‘ j gan. Western Michigan won both the Invitational and CCC meets last year. -Michigan State has the defending individual champion of the IC4A and -NCAA meets in Forrest Kennedy.
The harriers have been working out 9 daily in preparation for the start of the season competition. Coach Wilson is a 1 veteran at readying a team for the rigors of varsity competition and has -l always done an outstanding job during ; his tenure here at Notre Dame. Two x i years ago his team won the NCAA J championship.	1
Cross-country meets . at Notre Dame , | are held on the Burke Memorial Golf § Course. The runners follow a route that I runs along the perimeter of the course I and then finishes in	a	straightaway up	|
the second fairway.	p
The Scholastic	I
NEWS BRIEFS
A Ph.D. Fellowship in chemistry for over $2,000 has been awarded to the University by the Eastman Kodak Company. Also provided are tuition and fees, funds to enable a student to attend one professional meeting appropriate to his field of study, and an additional $1,000 to the University to help defray research expenses.
A special program designed to serve the foreign students visiting Washington during the Christmas vacation is planned by the Foreign Student Service Council of Greater Washington. It will begin on December 22 and continue through January 1. Included in the program will be special visits to the Capitol Hill, National Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, and other places of national interest. There will also be Christmas day hospitality with American families and trips to the home of George Washington at Mount Vernon.
Further information about the program, advice on accomodation in Washington and reservations for the various events may be obtained by writing to the council at 1722 H Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Reservations for all the activities must be made at least 24 hours in advance.
Walter Joseph Landry of New Orleans, La., is the winner of the first prize of $150 in the Nathan Burkau Memorial Competition for 1958 at the Tulane University School of Law. Mr. Landry’s prize-winning paper is entitled “Governmental Ac-
(Continued on page 32)
FREE PEN WITH EVERY ORDER! ORDER YOUR MAGAZINES AT THE LOW STUDENT RATES!
TIME (27 wks.) 7%c a copy._________$1.97
TIME (1 yr.) 7c a copy.____________3.87
TIME (2 yrs.) 7c a copy____________7.00
NEWSWEEK (34 wks.) 7c a copy.______ 2.50 NEWSWEEK (1 yr.) 6c a copy.________ 3.50
US NEWS & WORLD REPORT
(39 wks.) 9c a copy._____________3.67
FORTUNE (1 yr.) 62c a copy.________ 7.50
LIFE (21 wks.) 9c a copy.__________ 1.91
LIFE (8 mos.) 9c a copy.___________ 3.00
LIFE (1 yr.) 7%c a copy.___________4.00
LIFE (2 yrs.) 7c a copy.___________ 7.00
LOOK (1 yr.) 13c a copy. 3.50 SATURDAY EVE. POST
(39 wks.) 10c a copy.____________ 3.90
READER’S DIGEST (1 yr.) 25c a copy...... 2.97 SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
(17 wks.) 9c a copy._____________ 1.50
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
(6 mos.) 10c a copy._____________ 2.50
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
(1 yr.) 7c a copy________________4.00
ARCHITECTURAL FORUM
(1 yr.) 27c a copy.______________ 3.25
HOUSE & HOME (1 yr.) 37c a copy.___4.50
STUDENTS’ SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE 2133 NORWOOD STREET	LOS ANGELES 7, CALIFORNIA
PLEASE SEND THE ABOVE UNDERLINED MAGAZINES TO:
NAME______________________________________________________
ADDRESS__________________________________________________:-----------
CITY__________________________________ ZONE_____ STATE_______________
UNIVERSITY OR COLLEGE_______________________________ CLASS OF________
□ Payment enclosed, send me FREE pen
□ New	□ Renewal
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
* Novels and Novelists Mansfield
* Rage for Order Warren
* Tenth Muse Read
* Poems of St. John of the Cross Trans, by Nims
* Human Condition Arendt
* Echoes of Bats and Men Griffin
* Medieval Essays Dawson
* Long Loneliness Day
* Orthodoxy Chesterton
* Drama of Pirandello
Vittorini
* Fate of Medieval Art
Coulton
* God's Country and Mine Barzun
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-fhe-campus
ESQUIRE (8 mos.) 37c a copy.___$3.00
ATLANTIC MONTHLY
(8 mos.) 37c a copy._________3.00
THE NEW YORKER (8 mos.) 9c a copy..- 3.00 HARPER’S (1 yr.) 37c a copy._______4.50
SATURDAY REVIEW (1 yr.) 7c a copy— 3.88 THE REPORTER (10 mos.) 33c a copy__3.27 HOLIDAY (9 mos.) 39c a copy._______3.50
AMERICAN HOME (9 mos.) 25c a copy— 2.25 LADIES’ HOME JOURNAL
(9 mos.) 28c a copy__________2.50
VOGUE (1 yr.) 25c a copy.______5.00
HOUSE & GARDEN (1 yr.) 29c a copy._3.50 GLAMOUR (1 yr.) 21c a copy.________2.50
HARPER’S BAZAAR (1 yr.) 25c a copy_3.00 GOOD HOUSEKEEPING
(2 yrs.) 17c a copy._________3.98
HOUSE BEAUTIFUL (2 yrs.) 25c a copy 6.00 TV GUIDE (66 wks.) 9c a copy_______5.85
GOLF DIGEST (5 mos.) 20c a copy.___1.00 EBONY (1 yr.) 16c a copy.__________2.00
POPULAR MECHANICS
(20 mos.) 15c a copy_________2.98
SPORTS AFIELD (20 mos.) 15c a copy.—. 2.98 SCIENCE DIGEST (20 mos.) 15c a copy— 2.98
EAT AT OUR OWN FRANKIE'S $1.50 STEAK SPECIAL Tuesday and Thursday •
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave.
LM1KY nd BNKSIIF
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
Need a Chest, Bookcase or Record Cabinet?
it
BUY THEM UNPAINTED!
Save !4 or more
a
WILLIAM’S
312 S. Michigan St.
SHIRTS EXPERTLY
CLEANED
5 for $1.00
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Lino
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Yean!
October 2, 1959
31
Dr. Thorson Awarded $17,250 Biology Grant; Navy Awards $6,500 for Geological Surveys
Three recent projects have been brought about by grants to the University and its professors.
Dr. Erhard M. Winkler, associate professor of geology, has been awarded a $6,500 grant by the Office of Naval Research to conduct a study entitled “Interpretation of Glacial Deposits from Color Air Photos.”
Dr. Winkler will team up with his wife to take color aerial photographs of part of St. Joseph County and the southwest Michigan dunes area in a two-year research project supported by the U. S. Navy.
First in color. While virtually all of St. Joseph County has been photographed in black and white, it is believed that Dr. Winkler’s films will be the first extensive color photographs of the area. According to the Notre Dame geologist, the special film will capture shades and hues of soil which would not show in standard aerial color photos. The color variations, he explained, will indicate different types of soils as well as the possible presence of underground water.
Dr. Ralph Thorson, head of the University’s biology department, has been awarded a $17,250 grant by the National Institutes of Health for research on immunity in roundworm infections.
His research, Professor Thorson explained, will deal with roundworms which infect animals, notably dogs and cats. These infections, known as ne-matodiases, can be transmitted to humans, and children are particularly susceptible.	-
a Swingline Stapler no bigger than a pack of gum!
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
LONG ISLAND CITY, NEW YORK. N. Y.
Professor Thorson plans to investigate the mechanism of immunity to these worms and hopes to develop a serological test which will be useful in the diagnosis of the infection in humans.
Plastic room. A sterile, plastic room for rearing and experimenting with germfree animals has been developed by University scientists with the assistance of a grant from the National Institutes of Health and with the cooperation of the Army Surgeon General and the Office of Naval Research.
According to Professor Philip Trexler, development of the sterile room was prompted by the steadily increasing demand for germfree creatures by research scientists throughout the country. Major germfree animal research centers have already been established with the help of Notre Dame scientists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, D. C., and at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.
News Briefs
(Continued from page 31) tion Affecting Rights of Authors and Inventors.”
Mr. Landry received his Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Notre Dame.
Three recent graduates of the University of Notre Dame have been awarded grants to study abroad during the 1959-60 school year.
James ‘L. Merz, Teaneck, N. J., and Frank Hayden, Memphis, Tenn, have received Fulbright scholarships. Joseph T. Nicholas, Gorham, New Hampshire is the recipient of a U.S. educational exchange award under the Smith-Mundt Act.
A total of 51 grants for graduate study and research have been awarded to members of Notre Dame’s 1959 senior class and to graduate students currently enrolled at the University.
Three prominent businessmen were appointed to advisory posts at the University this past summer- '
They are Ben Regan, president of Nationwide Food Service, Inc., of Chicago, 11., who will be on the advisory council for the College of Commerce; Edward J. Rogers, president and general manager of the Layne-Northwest Co., who was named to the advisory council for the Liberal and Fine Arts college at Notre Dame; and J. F. Connaughton, president of the Whed-abrator Corp., Mishawaka, Ind., who will serve as a member of the same advisory council.
Lincoln White, Chief of the News Division of the Department of State, will speak on “The Problem of Publicity in American Foreign Policy.” Mr. White will present his talk in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m. on October 7.
FOR YOUR
•	BILLFOLDS
•	BRIEF CASES
•	GIFTS
•	LUGGAGE
MANSARiNTZSCH
(uqqail* Shop
Michigan at Colfax
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS
MANICURIST
i
NABICHT CAFETERIA
*
REASONABLE PRICES
A 1415 Lincoln Way West
RWTURBOW yorroMTnMT
OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737
207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY *
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main Sb	J.M.S. Bldg.
n
32
The Scholastic
■A/MOW-
When first impressions matter
The man in command of the * situation is, of course, perfectly groomed. And, a good-looking shirt—with masterful tailoring — is one of the essentials. We respectfully submit the flattering Arrow “Tabber” with the authentic British Tab collar — as a fitting background for the well-dressed man. Luxurious “Sanforized” fabrics — oxford and broadcloth. $5.00.
Each Saturday im tha NCAA football "Game of the Week"— NBC TV -sponsored by ARROW.
ARROW’S TABBER PROCLAIMS YOUR GOOD TASTE
This smart shirt is typical of the ingenious styling of our new Arrow collection. See our latest collar styles —in huttondowns, tabs, and pin-tabs, each precision tailored for perfect fit and lasting good looks in oxford and broadcloth.
Your choice in white, colors, and British stripes. $5.00.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend
October 2, 1959
33
Sack Pg^g
by THOMAS BANCHOFF
the university ■ and the moon
Our author, Thomas Banchoff, is a senior mathematics major from Trenton, NJ. In addition to his work on the Advisory Board of which he is chairman, he has contributed regidarly to the Scholastic’s features section and the “Back Page.”	,
To open this year of publication, Banchoff has chosen a very timely theme, namely the recent success of Lunik II, Russian moon rocket. Using this tremendously important event as a point of reference he discusses its pertinency to university life.
Without doubt, the most impressive technical accomplishment of the summer was the successful score by the U.S.S.R. in the international game of “hit the moon.” It shouldn’t be long before scientists will attempt to follow up this success by launching a mass of machinery designed to orbit about our natural earth satellite in much the same way as sputniks and explorers travel around the earth. When it comes about, this will represent a most wondrous feat — the placing of a man-made object into one more orbital motion than any manufactured thing has ever enjoyed before. Overwhelming as the prospect is, however, the experiment cannot be termed a complete success until the artificial moon-about-the-moon is able both to obtain the information that has been inaccessible to science and also to transmit that data back to receivers on the earth. Only at this time can this specific project "be considered fulfilled.
At the end of the summer vacation, just shortly after the news of the Soviet accomplishment, each student at the University of Notre Dame made a trip to the campus to take up residence here for the fall semester. Preparation for this jouraey was most likely less elaborate than for the shot at the moon, and the distance was considerably less in miles, "but in spite of the many differences the two actions have many parallels. The personal implications of coming to Notre Dame are at least as significant to the individual student as the technical data of the moon-shot are for* the scientist, and the criteria for the ultimate success of either endeavor are strikingly similar.
AWAY FROM THE WORLD
In many very real ways each student in coming here has left behind him an existence which is as different from the life he leads while at college as the earth is from the moon. He has left the influence of the outside world, the world of his summer and after-graduation ex
34
istence, to center his activities about a new body, the University. Like the scientist who inspects the moon from an observatory, the student can see the University as a source of valuable and fundamental knowledge that is not available to him in any other place. Like the poet and the philosopher in their absorbtion with the mysterious power of the moon, he can recognize the University as a force which shapes his personality and his attitudes.
Then in a very true sense the student returning to Notre Dame spans a vast gulf between the University life and the separate sphere of activity within which he moves at other times. It is actually a marvelous thing to be able to make the trip at all. But, as in the scientific achievement to which it is compared, just to make the jouraey cannot be considered an end in itself.
DUDS
What about the student who heads for the University without direction or caution and buries himself with a noiseless and unnoticed thud in the surface of a place which seems to him lifeless and uninteresting? It doesn’t seem worth the effort necessary to make the trip. If he is ever dislodged intact and returned he will be found just as intellectually inert as when he began. Without some sense of purpose, the jouraey, if it is ever-completed, is little more than an excursion, and an expensive one at that.
Full success for a moon exploration project would mean that the object launched into orbit would operate as efficiently as possible in recording and assimilating the data it is designed to handle. In an analogous manner, success at the University for the individual student means that he takes the greatest possible advantage of the opportunities offered to him and advances according to his capacity in the field for which he is best suited. Just as different satellites are furnished with instruments capable of recording varying types of information about the same body, the interests and abilities of the Notre Dame student body are extremely diversified. Within the framework of the University, however, there are sources of knowledge sufficient for the serious student in his chosen area of concentration. It is in pursuing these sources to the best of his ability that the student makes his stay here meaningful and worthwhile. Without such application, the trip is hardly worth the effort.
Over and above the importance of conscientious application to the search
for knowledge in a specific major field, y. there is a significant aspect of the University which transcends the idea of the ‘ satellites. While it is true that a great part of success here at Notre Dame de- * pends on the sincere receptivity of the student to the knowledge that is avail- r able, the process of education is much more than electronic osmosis.	‘
Unlike his metal-minded counterpart, the student is not fulfilled by a superficial accumulation of data. Education is a personal affair. The student cannot | indifferently circle the University like a J mechanical parasite; he must enter into the life of the University itself if he is to obtain lasting value from his stay * here. With regard to his courses, he ( must be willing to go below the surface ' and relate his studies to his life. He has ( to keep abreast of supplementary and current developments to acquire a mean- ( ingful grasp of the subjects he learns, both for the remainder of his stay and . for the time when he will leave the Uni- ’ versity.	<
In addition to the academic values at the University, the student who has a ; true education will take advantage of opportunities which seem to have very little relation to the moon rocket of last summer, or to its creators for that matter. At the University of Notre Dame	i
the student has the opportunity to de-	i
velop his personality on a cultural and spiritual level. The Notre Dame student 1 has the chance, through lectures, exhib- | its, and special performances, to gain an * awareness of his cultural background in the Catholic tradition.
AND MORE THAN MECHANICS
Another value which is of paramount importance to any student in a Catholic university is the opportunity for spiritual development of the individual. If the student neglects this facet of his education, he has disregarded one of the greatest benefits Notre Dame has to offer. The Religious Program under the student chaplain is oriented to help the -student meet his personal problems and establish a sound and lasting spiritual foundation foi* his life. This at least is one phase of education which would be incomprehensible to an analog computer.
The moon is in the sky, still the goal < of the scientist and his fact-collecting satellites. And we are at the University 1: seeking our educations. What makes the i satellite successful is a model for us in our application to our studies; the other values we can obtain at the University of Notre Dame more than a series of moonbeamed beeps.
.	The Scholastic
PLAN AHEa
It’s a neat enough balancing act, you would think, to show up for all your classes, complete your required reading, help run the school dances and write home besides.
Somebody GOO^D
lease be seated
7c’4'/e /„ wo//-
But what do you do, for example—
—when your date expects you to be able to talk about music, too?
—when your kid brother assumes you know all about rockets and space ships?
—when the man who might give you a summer job traps you into discussing current business trends?
The answer is easy—take TIME
You can keep your grades up socially (and help yourself academically, too) in a couple of interesting hours a week with TIME. You can make up in minutes for the hours you couldn’t spare. You can count on a speaking acquaintance with all the important news of the day ... all the extra-curricular subjects any educated person should be equipped to discuss.
TIME is the college student’s answer (as well as the busy professional man’s) to the real need for keeping informed on dozens of different fields of interest he has no time to pursue— books, science, business, sport; the who, the what, the why and the how of politics, show business, art.
And TIME is fun besides. Deft, vivid writing ... a tight narrative style ... a quick eye for the extra detail ... a ready rapier wit.
Here’s your chance to try TIME and find out why it’s favorite reading on campuses everywhere. The rate is low—limited to college students and well below the regular price. The rewards are high—and lasting. z
What's more—if you mail the enclosed postage-paid card right away—you can start your subscription with an engaging gift from TIME: a full set of 2Jf. Silly Signs like the five you see in this ad.
They’re yours—free—along with a year of knowing that if it’s important, if it’s exciting... if it’s worth talking about... you’ll see it in TIME.
Acs
as
D°
^On





worry
©1959 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY
“THEY SAID you couldn’t have a cigarette with both low tar and more taste, too. But I?M did it,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.
LOW TAR: BM’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke . . . makes LM truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: BM’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more exciting flavor than any other cigarette!
1IVE MODERN-CHANGE TO MODERN BM