and how if started
- J S
* :
CAIVI ELS
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
LOVELY HOLLYWOOD STAR
TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”




R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
SUCCESS STORY
Camels — now more than ever the nationwide favorite cigarette!
*1 <7 I
Several years agoz I -fbuhd out Camels have most delightful flavor Qiad i/inild^SS o£ any cigarette .Try Camels and you'll be as enthusiastic as 11
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Make the 30-day Camel mildness test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
^Mastic
Vol. 96 OCTOBER 22, 1954 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Father Gabriel Writes Book
On Lives of Hungarian Saints
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O.Praem, director of the Mediaeval Institute at the University, is the author of a new book in Hungarian on the lives of the Hungarian saints. It soon will be published in English under the title, Pannonian Por
traits. Pannonia is the Latin name for .the old Roman province which was occupied by the first Christians in Hungary.
Included in the volume are spiritual portraits of the great central European saints including St. Stephen, St. Emerick, St. Ladislaus, St. Margaret and St. Elizabeth of Hungary. The biographies resulted from recent historical research conducted by Father Gabriel.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ^^llndiana. Accepted1 for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October ,3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
•WJOHN ADAMS  ...................News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ..........   Copy
Charles McKendrick ..................
.................... Assistant Copy DAVE COHEN    ...............Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER    Circulation DICK HAIRSINE ...........Photo Editor
PAUL FITZGERALD .....................
........... Photography Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT _____Faculty Moderator
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here November 9
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff ■ photographers appear on the following pages:
Jim Guide—pages 9, 10, 11.
John O’Brien—pages 9, 10, 11, 13.
Mike Thompson—page 15.
Gerry Trafficanda—pages	11,
12.
Cover: It rained on Cotillion-goers, it rained on the bonfire, it rained on the g spectators at the game, and it rained on Walsh’s “Old House.” But it took more than rain to dampen the spirit of the Irish and their backers who plodded through another typically action-packed homecoming week-end. The sun did come out long enough at times for everyone to parade their guests over the soaked campus, and give Scholastic daguerreotypists Jim Guide and John O’Brien an opportunity to dust their camera lenses.
CAIRO and Savo
hotel
Running water, from $2.75 with bath from $4-00 DOUBLE ROOMS Running water, from $4-50 With bath from $6.00
Large, two-room suites^ with bath, ideal for families of four people from $10.00 per day $2.00 par day for any additional person, up to I people BEAUTIFUL DINING ROOM AND COFFEE SHOP MEALS AT POPULAR PRICES Liberal commisiioa to Travel Agents on all
The Capital's tallest building offers BEST VALUES in
Washington
F	Slop at the	SINSLE ROOMS
single rooms
bookings.
auro
QSMoH6ihtN.W.
JAMES C. VANSTORY, SU, MGR.
October 22. 1954
^FARLtSS^OSDICK by AL CAPP
CLOCK, I CAN BLOW UP THIS VAULT, AND NO ONE WILL SUSPECT THAT I AM-
calendar

HA' HA-7-DISGU1SED AS A TANYFACEff
MASTER OF A MILLION DISGUISES.?
IL GA tea
YOU'RE MISTAKEN,SIR?? I AM W (TCK TOcK) A RELIABLE OLD BANK ■
CLOCK—MERELY MARKING OFF THE
HOURS — IV------------—
tgt	YOU MEAN BLOWING
OP ™E VAULT ANYFACE?
A\l a^ajQputupyour I \	HANDSET )

BETTER USE IT FAST"-THEY'RE GOING TO HANG YOU IN THE MORN ING."-* AS SOON AS YOU STRIKE EIGHT!?
GET W1LDR00T CRE AM-OILf KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUtMOT-U6Hf-GREASY. NON-ALCOHOUC. CONTAINS LANOUN. RELIEVES DRYNESS.REMOVES LOOSE
OCTOBER 22
STUDENT CENTER—The Engineers experience “A Night in Greenwich Village” at their annual ball. Johnny Palmer and his orchestra will play from 9 till 1, with Don Gels and a combo stepping into the spotlight during intermission.
AVON (through Oct. 29)—On the Waterfront (A-2) with Marlon Brando and Eve Marie Saint provides screenplay that explodes like a string of firecrackers. Brando performs as an ex-prizefighter who gets embroiled in a longshore union goon squad. This story thunders along with love, violence and tension breaking out along the authentic backgrounds of New York waterfront. It’s worth seeing.
COLFAX (through Oct. 23)—Stewart Granger portrays the romantic and daring Beau Brummel who lived in the time of King George HI. Elizabeth Taylor is his lady love in this drama with a happy ending.
GRANADA (through Oct. 28)—Clifton Webb goes looking for an executive to run his company, only to be faced with the fact that it’s a Woman’s World. In this film of mediocre wit and drama he examines three would-be-executives, and their wives: June Allyson, Arlene Dahl, and Lauren Bacall. Insofar as the executive job is concerned, he unhappily finds the women are making the decisions behind the scenes.
PALACE (through Oct. 28)—Dana Andrews takes Three Hours to Kill (A-2) in a whodunit. His right arm is Donna Reed. Human Desire (B) is a story of love, murder, and emotional cross currents with Glenn Ford and Gloria Grahame.
STATE (through Oct. 25)—Allied and Soviet forces meet in occupied Berlin and struggle back and forth for power in Night People (A-2). Gregory Peck, Broderick Crawford, and Rita Gam share the marquee in this one. John Steinbeck’s Red Pony with Robert Mitchum and Myrna Loy round this show out into an enjoyable evening.
OCTOBER 23
DRILL HALL—The regular Saturday night dance for ND men and their dates. Don Gels and Company supply the music. Price—One greenback per couple.
WASHINGTON HALL—Genevieve, a remarkably well-preserved 1904 vintage automobile, sheds her shackles and takes to the road in a British comedy starring Dinah Sheridan and John Gregson.
OCTOBER 24
COLFAX (ends Saturday)—Robert Taylor and Janet Leigh rate a not-so-good for their performance in Rogue Cop (B).
STATE (ends Tuesday)—Robert Wagner dives beneath the Twelve Mile Reef (A-l) to win Terry Moore, and to find some valuable sponges. It’s a film with excellent underwater photography, but, unfortunately little else to go with it. James Stewart works to conciliate frontiersmen and Indians in the excellent film Broken Arrow.
OCTOBER 27
RIVER PARK (ends Saturday)—Ann Blyth, as Rose Marie, transposes herself from a lone wildcat existence to a lady of civilization. Her resonant voice is ideally suited for operetta and, consequently, she and Howard Keel burst into song at every opportunity.
OCTOBER 29
PALACE (one day only)—The management clears the stage for the Festival of American Jazz, a musical production starring Stan Kenton and his orchestra. Also on the bill will be The Art Tatum Trio with Slam Stewart and Everett Barksbale; The Charlie Ventura Quintet; Shortie Rogers and His Giants; and Johnny Smith.
The Scholastic
Edifot 's Page
Hats Off to the Winner!
Walsh Hall’s display—shown on the cover—won the decorations trophy last week. But residents of Walsh give credit to one man, Jack Soranno, who designed and built the display almost entirely by himself. Last year Dillon Hall captured second place with a display designed by Jack. Congratulations to Walsh and Jack on this year’s victory.
Leadership Training—For Campus and Individual
Tonight at 7:30 o’clock a four-day leadership training program will get underway in the Nieuwland Science Hall. This program, sponsored by the Student Senate and operated by the Blue Circle, is an attempt to stimulate interest in leadership here.
“Campus leader” may sound like a fancy name tag to many, but beneath it there lies a lot of hard work; hard work that has continued over the years to benefit the students and the University. Hard work by some students over the past few years has built the social program to what it now is; has set functioning academic and religious programs for interested students; has obtained a Student Center, somethinsr lonsr desired around here; and has set up the Student Senate, the organized representatives of the student body. Much has been done and much more can be done. But many present leaders are seniors and others must replace them. This is something the new program is trying to achieve.
Far reaching benefits will come to those actively and intelligently participating in campus affairs. The immediate benefits will come here; others later in life. The University offers .a classroom education; the additional learning offered by extracurricular activity a student is free to accept or reject. Yet it must be worth something as evidenced by the fact that most j employment questionnaires ask what student activities the applicant has engaged in. Integral to leadership is responsibility. And with responsibility comes sensible and mature capabilities—necessary for the successful man in all walks of life. This program, then, is important not only to the student body but also to the individual participants.
We urge all students, especially the freshmen, to attend the lectures and other sections of the program. These are given in a story on page seven of this issue.	'
’ •
A Lot to Remember
The weather was pretty bad last weekend; even worse than usual for northern Indiana. It rained heavily but things still happened that will be remembered around here longer than the rains. By sophomores, their Cotillion and weekend activities; by everyone, Notre Dame’s 20-19 victory over Michigan State.
There were no fair weather fans in the throng that packed the Stadium and watched the Irish beat the Spartans; the third victory in four games. They watched State slither to a 13-0 lead early in the muddy contest. They watched the Irish fight back to overcome that lead by the third quarter, 14-13. Touchdowns by each team in the fourth period didn’t change the margin of victory.
Both teams played fine ball but the Irish were determined to win. Five seniors played the full 60 minutes and another, Ralph Guglielmi, almost the entire game in their chance to stop State.
And stop State they did, with great support coming from the student cheering section. Neither the rain nor the early Spartan scoring quelled the cheering; it was really terrific.
The night before, another great demonstration of support was shown the team at the bonfire rally. Such displays evidence the strength of student spirit. Let’s keep it up for the rest of the season!
5
rfl October 22, 1954
Donald W. Sundstrom received his B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in 1953. He's currently studying for an M.S. degree and expects to receive it next year. Like other engineering students, he’s asking a lot of searching questions before deciding on a permanent employer.
Don Sundstrom asks
What are my chances for advancement in a big firm like Du Pont?
Jerry Risser answers
L...
Gerald J. Risser, B.S. Chem. Eng., Univ, of Wisconsin (1937), is now assistant man-
ager of the Engineering Service Division in Du Pont's Engineering Department, Wilmington, Delaware.
I THINK I know exactly what’s behind that question, Don, because the same thing crossed my mind when I first graduated and looked around for a job. That was about seventeen years ago, when the Du Pont Company was much smaller than it is today. And there’s a large factor in the answer, Don, right there! The advancement and growth of any employee depends to a considerable degree on the advancement and growth of his employer. Promotion possibilities are bound to be good in an expanding organization like Du Pont.
Right now, for example, construction is in progress or planned for three new plants. That means many new opportunities for promotion for young engineers. And, in my experience, I have found it is a fundamental principle of Du Pont to promote
RES.U.S PAT Off
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHE A4/SIR/
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
from within the organization—on merit.
My own field, development work, is a natural for ayoung graduate, because it’s one of the fundamental branches of engineering at Du Pont. There are complete new plants to design, novel equipment problems to work on, new processes to pioneer—all sorts of interesting work for a man who can meet a challenge. Many of the problems will involve cost studies —some will require evaluation in a pilot plant—but, in every case, they’ll provide the satisfactions which come from working with people you like and respect.
All in all, Don, your chances of advancement on merit are mighty good at Du Pont!
- ■ — .. ■
Want to know more about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical Engineers at Du Pont,’ ’ a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. There’s a step-by-step outline of the leadership opportunities that confront a young Du Pont engineer—how he can advance—and how he can obtain help from experienced members of the team. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
6
The Scholastic
scmsnc 
Volume 96, Number 4	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 22, 1954
•ENGINEERS DANCE IN THE ‘VILLAGE’ TONIGHT
Johnny Palmer’s Band Will Provide Melodies
Senate Inaugurates 'Leadership Program' To Develop Future Campus Administrators
Two hundred-forty Engineers and L their dates will glide across the Student Center floor tonight in a “Greenwich ' Village” atmosphere to the music of Johnny Palmer and his orchestra.
Co-Queens Miss Pat Costello of St.
Louis, and Miss Sally Carey of Jo-
SALLY CAREY AND PAT COSTELLO Queens of the ‘Village’
liet, Ill., a sophomore from St. Mary’s, V will reign over the festivities as the respective dates of Bob Baudenistel and Tom Magill, co-chairmen of the
| ball.
• The theme of this year’s ball will .	feature the New York City skyline and
I	various scenes will depict the mood of
।	the unique village. Instead of the cus-
1 tomary favors, charcoal sketches, drawn I by a trio of AB artists, will serve as keepsakes for the couples. Jim Ehren> reich, Dick Scherpereel, and John Loch™ tefeld will demonstrate their talents, using the New York skyline as a backdrop for the couples.
The dance will last from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. Residence permissions for 2 a. m. have been granted. Car permissions will be in effect from noon Friday until 2 a. m. Saturday.
Palmer- and his aggregation will be remembered by Notre Dame men from (Continued on page 18)
A recently proposed “Leadership Training Program,” sponsored by the Student Senate and engineered by members of the Blue Circle, will be conducted for a period of four days beginning tonight and ending next Monday. General sessions will be held in Nieuwland Science Hall and group discussions will be held in the Student Center.
Each session will consist primarily of a speech on an appropriate element of leadership, followed by a question-and-answer period.
The program begins this evening at 7:30 with Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., speaking on “Education for Leadership.” Tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 Mr. Frank O’Malley will continue the program with a talk concerning “Leadership Responsibility,” to be followed at 7:30 with a speech on the “Fields of Leadership at Notre Dame” by Joe Daley. A group discussion will follow in the Student Center.
Sunday’s portion of the program begins with the group attending 8 a. m. Mass which will be celebrated by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. John O’Meara will speak on the “Techniques of Leadership” at 10:30 a. m. The program will resume with group discussions at 1:30 p. m. in the Student Center. Short talks by personnel of different campus organizations will follow at 4. Mr. William R. Dooley will terminate Sunday’s proceedings at 6:30 in the evening with a speech on “The Leader and His Personnel Problems.”
Monday, the final day of the program, will feature a talk on “Public Relations” by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., to be given at 4:30 in the afternoon. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., will bring the program to a close on Monday evening at 7 o’clock, with a speech entitled “Obligations of Responsibility.”
The primary purpose of the program is to stimulate and develop a sense of leadership among Notre Dame students. Once this is accomplished it is hoped that the men of Notre Dame will have a consciousness of the many student affairs in operation on campus, as well as a knowledge of the functions of student government. The program will attempt to show students what is expected of them should they enter into a leadership capacity either here on campus or after graduation. Joe Daley, Student Senate president, and a committeeman of the program, expressed its value as “an opportunity those in positions of leadership and those who hope someday to lead can ill-afford to miss. It should help all of us at Notre Dame.”
Leaders of the program expressed concern over the small number of men on campus who hold governmental or organizational positions. This lack of interest or initiative on the part of students necessitates present leaders to handle more duties and responsibilities than they can shoulder and still properly perform.
It is the sincere wish of the program directors that this leadership training will, in the future, assure Notre Dame of good, experienced leaders possessing not only a sound knowledge of what their jobs entail, but also a broad conception of other campus functions as well. John Powers, chairman of the leadership program, has expressed the hope that campus leadership training will not terminate with the final session of the program but will be supplemented by specialized training units in and among the various organizations on campus. Committeemen for the program, besides Powers and Daley, include: John O’Meara, Forst Brown, Tom Crehan, Jim Price, and Steve Prevoznik.
£ October 22, 1954
7
JERRY SCHOENHERR, FRANK FLORIAN, JAMES MITCHELL ‘Tech’ Covers—Too Good for Competition
Technical Review* Garners National Honors;
Covers and Illustrations Receive Top Awards
The Notre Dame Technical Revieiv, a quarterly magazine published by students of the College of Engineering, received three national awards Oct. 9 at the annual convention of the Engineering College Magazine Assoc., held at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. Thomas Farrell, a national chairman of the E.C.M.A. and professor at the University of Iowa, made the presentations.
The Notre Dame publication received two first place awards and one second place. The first place certificates were awarded for the best single cover and for the year’s best covers. The second place certificate 'was given for illustrations. The magazines judged were issues from the 1953-54 college year.
The E.C.M.A. has a total membership of 39 engineering colleges and universities throughout the country. Out of approximately 150 engineering magazines published last year by these member colleges, the best single cover award was voted for unanimously by the judge's. Dennis Sawinski, senior this year in architectural engineering, designed the winning cover. The magazine’s art and layout department, which is largely responsible for achieving the awards of illustrations and best covers, is headed by Jim Mitchell, junior in architectural engineering.
A favorable comment was paid the Technical Review at the convention by Mr. Ratner, former editor of Better Homes and Gardens and now head of an advertising agency in Minneapolis. Mr. Ratner, who was one of the principal convention speakers, lauded the Notre
S
Dame publication, stating that it was a “beautifully edited magazine.”
The Technical Revieiv is now entering its sixth year as a member of the E.C.M.A. and has received an aggregate of six awards from the E.C.M.A., including the three recent presentations. The magazine has a circulation of 1300 engineering students, 200 alumni, and 100 high schools.
Frank Florian, co-editor of the student publication and senior in industrial engineering, stated that the magazine has a threefold purpose: it provides an outlet foi' creative writing ability of engineering students, an opportunity for national recognition of their work, and information to the engineering students on timely topics. Jerry Schoenherr, the other co-editor, is a senior in chemical engineering.
Commerce Ball Ticket Sale Begins Monday, Nov. 8
John Dwyer, ticket chairman for the Commerce Ball, has announced that tickets will go on sale Nov. 8 in the basement of the Dining Hall from 3 p. m. to 5 p. m. and from 7 p. m. to 9 p. m.
The semi-formal dance will be held on Friday, Nov. 26, in the Student Center. Buddy Morrow’s orchestra will be featured, and the theme of the ball is “An Evening at Monte Carlo.” A maximum of 400 tickets is available; hotel and game tickets are available with the bids.
The week-end will also include a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn.
Greek Art to Highlight AB's Festival of Arts
An exhibit of original Greek sculpture dating from 800 to 200 B. C. will highlight the 1954 Festival of the Arts to be sponsored in November by the College of Arts and Letters. The sculpture will be on exhibit from Nov. 6-28 in the gallery of the O’Shaughnessy Building, while the festival events will be held from Nov. 8 through 12. (
Among the many contributors to this^ exhibit will be the Chicago Art Institute, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Harvard University art collection, and the University of Pennsylvania galleries.
Don Yeckel, festival chairman, has announced that an ancient Athenian coin, one of the rarest of the works contributed, has been selected as a sym
bol of the festival. On the front of the Jk coin is a representation of Athena, r
patron of Athens and central figure in
Greek mythology. The reverse side portrays an owl, the symbol of Greek wisdom, and an olive branch, the symbol of prosperity.
Other highlights of the week-long festival dedicated to classical art will
be a lecture by the noted classical archaeoligist, Dr. Rhys Carpenter of . Bryn Mawr ; a series of dramatic read-ings by Miss Margaret Mower, Eng-lish actress; and a performance of fjf k Gluck’s opera, Orpheus, sponsored by
the University’s Department of Music.
Law Dance Slated Nov. 13; Carolina Tilt, Breakfast on Tap
The annual ball of the College of Law, which will be a combined dance and dinner, will be held at the South Bend Country Club on Nov. 12. The ball is open to all members of the Student Law Association. The Spotlighters will provide music for the ballgoers. Tickets for the dinner-dance or for the dance alone will be available at the end of the week.
Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of business affairs and spiritual advisor for the Student Law Association, will be the chief speaker at the Communion Breakfast on Sunday. The Communion break- A, fast is open to all law students and their guests. Tickets for the North Carolina football game on Nov. 13 will also be available for ballgoers.
Andy Walsh in general chairman of the 1954 Law Ball. Don Kunkel is in charge of blind dates. Advertising is being handled by Mark Tolle and Ned Griffin. Ticket chairman is Harry Snyder and Jerry Smith is chairman of the Communion Breakfast.
The Scholastic
gold.
The big week-end. The sophs
im-
I
Homecoming Weekend
Wet But Wonderful
>, its solid
ported their dates for the Cotillion. ™ The Spartans came to town. Somehow i the halls got hidden behind their dec-। orations and thousands of visitors pour! ed into South Bend. Everyone was set for homecoming. So was the weather-I	man. It rained and rained and then
!	decided to rain some more. Ugh!
* Things went on anyway. As usual.
• The pep rally bonfire burned and the troops did plenty of yelling. Charlie Spivak and his gang made lots of " music for the soph caper cutters. ND got by Michigan State for the first time since ’49. South Bend’s umbrella salesmen made a fortune. Another Vic; tory Dance came and went. The new ; bus set-up kept the Dixie Flyers dry. ' And Walsh Hall won the decoration :	contest. Yes, the so-called spiritless
A soph and his first imported” date take a look at the bonfire.
seniors—with a big assist from designer Jack Soranno gave the underclassmen a decoration lesson with their “Hurricane Terry and the MSC Farm.” Of course, Dillon, Alumni, Lyons and several others can legitimately complain that the rain didn’t help their displays —but Walsh got the nod.
All’s well that ends well. And we finally beat State. Oh, and another thing—all those imported dates have gone back home. Dam!
“Matilda! You’re here!
0 October 22, 1954
A Dance, a Rally, a Breakfast...
Father Hesburgh, breakfast chairman Millen and date at the breakfast fable.
The Scholastic
Matsock carries through the mud but Notre Dame crushes State—by one point.
*• Si“ We Beat State
MILITARY COUNCIL IN SESSION NUMBER TWO
Unit Commanders Praise Merge of ROTC Echelons
New Student Military Council Nans Activities; Military Ball, Weapons Lectures on Agenda
Plans for joint activities by the three campus ROTC units were laid last week as the newly-formed Student Military Council met in the Student Center. Included in the plans, as announced by Jim Hesburgh, council president, is a series of lectures on weapons peculiar to each of the branches of armed forces by officers of the respective services. Plans for the annual Military Ball, to be held Nov. 5, were discussed. Also in the offing are joint ROTC bowling and basketball leagues.
The Student Military Council, an organization formed last spring, is designed to work for the attainment of respect and recognition of the military service, to serve as an advisory council to the military departments, and to coordinate joint military activities.
The council is composed of nine students, three from each campus ROTC unit. Each unit contributes its cadet club president, a member-at-large selected by all the cadets of the unit in the spring semester, and a stay member selected by the council to preserve continuity. Members-at-large are required by the council’s constitution to be juniors or lower classmen.
The council elects a president who holds office for one year and a secretary whose task is to keep records of the proceedings. The president is ineligible to succeed himself.
Meetings are set at the discretion of the president, at least once a month.
The club is subject to the regulations of the Student Senate and the University.
This year’s membership includes Charles Mears, Frank Boos, and Patrick Me A ward of the Army ROTC; Hesburgh, Frank McCarthy, and Jerry Massey of the Navy ROTC; and Gene Wagner, Jim Krebs, and John Locht of the Air Force ROTC.
Locht serves as secretary for the group.
The three faculty advisors of the council are Capt. R. W. Ellison, U.S.A., Cmdr. J. A. Masterson, U.S.N., and Major J. F. Chimento, USAF.
'Orpheus' to Be Presented At Arts Festival on Nov. 17
The vocal score of Orpheus, an opera by Christoph Willibald von Gluck, will be presented by the Department of Music on Nov. 17. Under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department, it will be staged in the little theater of the Student Center as part of the Festival of Arts.
Van Gluck, an 18th century German composer, hoped that Orpheus would revive ideas common in ancient Greek drama. Therefore, the opera is quite similar to Greek plays in two aspects: there are few principal characters, and the music is so designed that it will never distract from the plot being unfolded on stage.
This production will feature members of the Notre Dame Glee Club, including soloists John Noland and Eugene Gorski.
Bids For Military Ball j On Sale Next Week
Three hundred and fifty bids to the Nov. 5 Military Ball will go on sale next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday in the lobby of the Dining Hall.
Dancing instead of drill will be in order for the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC members as Chuck Foster and his orchestra will provide the downbeat for the ’54 edition of the Ball. . j “Music in the Foster Fashion” wilP? be danced and listened to from 9 to 1 in the Student Center.
Flower reefs, representing the Army, Navy, and Air Force, will grace the downstairs of the Center. There will also be a globe from which will project a tank, plane, and ship, symboliz-	i
ing the three-fold power of the mili-	I
tary. Flags and flowers representing all three units will form the backdrop^ for the bandstand.	'
White shirts and uniforms will be proper dress for the occasion. There will be no corsages.	:
Queens of the dance will be the dates of the three general chainnen: Jack Tokar, Army; Gene Wagner, Air Force; and Larry Buckley, Navy.
A Blind Date Bureau has been set up through Tom Mariani, Room 243, j Breen-Phillips, with dates from St. 1 Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s School I of Nursing.
Heading the other dance committees are Tom Armstrong, publicity; Paul Reed, accommodations; John Cuddy, Transportation; Dave Friske, entertainment; Jerry Massey, business manager; Pat McNamara, refreshments, and John Locht, tickets.
Senate Sponsors Talent Party i In Student Center Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon in the Student Center between 1:30 and 5:30, the Student Senate will sponsor a Harvest Moon Talent Party. It will feature dance contests, and vaudeville acts; refreshments will be served.
Performers will come from both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Cups will be awarded for the best J dance acts in jitterbug, Latin Ameri- 1 can, Charleston, and waltz. There will be cash prizes for the best vaudeville acts, which will include singers, comedians, magic acts, and instrumentalists. A football autographed by the 1954 Fighting Irish will be given away as a door prize.
The party is being managed by the Blue Circle. General chairman is Bert Millen; Joe Bill is in charge of publicity, while Don Eniegowski is handling refreshments and prizes.
12
The Scholastic &
* Scholastic Sports
BRENNAN GIRDS CHARGES FOR MIDDIES
Irish Prep for Navy
After Big MSC Win
Off-Campus and Dillon Cop Impressive Wins As Interhall League Swings Into Third Week
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, victorious in three of their first four
games, are idle this week-end due to a mid-season open date. Their next out-
I ing will be against the Middies of Navy next Saturday at Baltimore.
Terry Brennan’s charges ended Michigan State’s three year reign over
them by downing the Spartans, 20-19, on a rain-soaked field last Saturday.
The Spartans jumped to an early 13-point lead, but the Irish fought back valiantly to gain the margin of victory.
State scored in 13 plays with the clock showing that only 5:35 had elapsed. Clarence Peaks capped the drive, scoring on an end run from the eight. Jerry Planutis made the first and only ^successful extra point, and the Spartans led, 7-0.
Michigan State strack again in the opening period after recovering an Irish bobble on the ND 35. Morrall passed to John Lewis on the 29, and he outran Studer and Heap into the end
Five tough games and many rainstorms featured the first week’s activity in the interhall football league. Three games were played in the East league, while the previously scheduled Alumni-Badin contest in the West league was postponed.
Breen-Phillips, St. Ed’s, and Off-Campus, won their games in the East League. Breen-Phillips gained their win by edging Cavanaugh 7-6. D. Castro scored the touchdown for Breen-Phillips on a six-yard quarterback sneak. Mike Feeney scored the extra point on an off-tackle smash. Mike Kiewel tallied Cavanaugh’s TD on a four-yard line plunge.
St. Ed’s, last year’s runnerup for the championship, continued their winning ways by beating Farley in a nip-and-tuck affair, 7-0. St. Ed’s score came on a blocked punt that rolled into the end zone.
The Off-Campus eleven rounded out
the East league games by downing . Zahm, 14-0. A Hoyer to Zimmerman pass play good for 35 yards, a safety, ' and a 25-yard jaunt by O’Connell around end, accounted for the 14 points.
Dillon and Morrissey scored the two victories in the West league. Dillon displayed power in defeating Howard 19-0. John Raub grabbed a twelve-yard pass from quarterback Don Costello for the initial score. Halfbacks Jerry Miller and Joe Yaeger scored the final touchdowns on 20-yard runs around end.
Lyons was defeated by Morrissey 7-6 in the only other West league contest. Ray Miller plunged over from two yards out for Morrissey’s score. Bill Thees added the winning extra point on an end run. Bob Havercamp caught a pass in the end zone to account for Lyons’ score.
Six games are scheduled to be played next week.
zone.
It took ND eleven plays before Heap , bucked across for the first score, and .^Schaefer’s boot made it 13-7.
Syzmanski’s interception of a Morrall pass gave the Irish possession on the Spartan 46, and in twelve plays the score was tied. Heap took a pitch from Guglielmi, and scored behind a key block by Schaefer. Schaefer converted to make it 14-13.
The Spartans • missed two field goal attempts, and were halted twice in suc-! cession. Then with four minutes left in the game, Guglielmi gambled on ’^fourth down and Reynolds picked up the needed yardage. Schaefer carried 30 yards to the State eleven, and then two plays later Reynolds carried over from the eight. Schaefer missed the point, and the score stood, 20-13, with 2:53 left.
John Lewis gathered in a Morrall pass and raced to the Irish 14, from -where Bert Zagers carried it across. However, Planutis missed the conversion, and the Irish victory was safe.
THE SCOREBOARD READ, 20-19
Valiant Irish Line Charges as Bisceglia Finds Hole
B October 22, 1954
13
Schaefer, Heap Trail
Guglielmi in Scoring
f^fbe pfessbox
by Paul Fullmer
Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi continues to lead in the scoring department after four games with 18 points. He has carried the ball 32 times for 97 yards and an average of three yards per carry.
Don Schaefer follows in scoring with a touchdown and seven extra points for a total of 13. The most important of these extra points was the twentieth point in the State game. He is followed closely by Joe Heap with twelve.
Dean Studer still leads in rashing with 109 yards in 22 carries for an average of 4.9. Schaefer follows with a 4.6 average on 181 yards in 39 carries. Due to a brilliant day Saturday, Joe Heap has a 4.4 average, carrying the ball 46 times for 203 yards. Saturday, Heap carried the ball 22 times for a total of 110 yards.
Tom Carey has the best passing percentage with five completions in eight attempts. Second is Guglielmi who has completed 22 out of 46 for a total of 243 yards.
Heap and Morse each have caught seven tosses to lead in pass receiving.
Sophomore Paul Hornung, who has a punting average of 37 yards, is still the leader in this department.
The Irish avenged one long-standing debt last weekend, but they still have one more big account to settle out at Iowa City on Nov. 20 against the Hawkeyes. Duffy Daugherty’s Spartans spurted to an early lead last Saturday afternoon behind a tricky aerial attack, but Terry Brennan’s crew
battled back and took the game they really wanted this year.
DON SCHAEFER
It was a team victory, but not one lacking in great individual performances. No pre-season observer ever expected the Irish to win a game this year on their punting or place kicking, but they did Saturday. Notre Dame’s opponents have out-distanced the Irish in every game this year, and probably will continue to do so if the kickers don’t acquire a little consistency. But Don Schaefer, the fighting fullback who has earned his position through some really topnotch play, converted in two out of three attempts to pull the Irish through to the slim 20-19 victory. It probably will be the most important extra point that Schaefer will ever kick. It was THE BIG POINT. It meant the difference between victory and keen disappointment.
Schaefer racked up a seven-yard average to give the Irish that potent
RUSHING
Times
punch up the middle that they have—sorely lacked so far. Joe Heap again proved that he is back in stride as he piled up 110 yards and gave the Irish that big threat around the ends or off tackle. His short thrusts off tackle gave the Irish that essential short yardage that they need to make a ball-
Carried Yds. Avg.
Heap _____________________    46	203	4.4
Schaefer ...................  39	181	4.6
Guglielmi ..................  32	97	3.0
Studer .....................  22	109	4.9
Morse .....................   17	77	4.5
SCORING TD PAT FG Pts.
Guglielmi ............. 3	0	0	18
Schaefer -------------- 1	7	0	13
Heap .................. 2	0	0	12
Shannon ................ 10	0	6
Raich  10	0	6
Hornung _.............. 10	0	6
Studer ---------------- 10	0	6
Sipes  10	0	6
Munro ................. 10	0	6
Reynolds .....-........ 10	0	6
Morse —................ 0	10	1
control game work.	.
Ralph Guglielmi, although not taking to the airways, played one of his best games. His field generalship was superb. The split-T option play that has given the Irish a lot of trouble in earlier games turned out to be the life saver in the State contest. _ Heap’s sprints around right end turned the tide in two vital situations. Guglielmi’s double fake and pitchout in the fourth quarter* to Heap when the Irish needed a big gain was the most beautiful maneuver off the split-T that has been seen in our four years around here.
	PUNTING		
	No.	Yds.	Avg.
Hornung			 4	148	37
Heap —		 4	125	31
Schaefer					 4	124	31
Morse —		  3	82	27
	PASS RECEIVING		
	No Caught	Yds.	TD
Morse —		 7	94	0
Heap 				7	135	0
Matz —	.. „ 	 4	41	0
PASSING
	Att.	Comp.	Yds.	Avg.
Guglielmi 		46	22	243	.478
Carey 		8	5	68	.625
Hornung		12	3	9	.250
Palumbo Sharpens Offensive Play	,
Sam Palumbo sparked the line in its best effort of the year. Sam played his usual bang-up defensive game, but also delivered many gaping holes for Heap to rip through off tackle. Heap’s five yard average can be directly traced to Palumbo’s improved blocking.
Dick Szymanski’s stellar play at center establishes him as one of the country’s best. Dick’s line-backing prowess has never been disputed, but many felt that he couldn’t block well enough on offense. This was proved a fallacy in the State contest as Szymanski consistently blasted holes in the lighter Michigan brigade.
Paul Matz and Dan Shannon came through well at end and Frank Var-richione again was moving on offense. Pat Bisceglia, who received many well-earned plaudits after the game for his great relief stint, was in on the majority of the tackles. He received credit for deflecting Planutis’ final kick and his desperation charge is shown on page 13 in a unique view of the mud-covered and weary battlers.
Angelo Bertelli, 1943 All-American quarterback who was doing the commentary on the closed circuit TV broadcast, disagreed with the sportswriters who felt that the sloppy field would benefit the lighter Spartans. Bertelli stated early in the second quarter when there was no silver lining in the Irish cloud, “Since Notre Dame outweighs Michigan State in the line, it seems probable that the Irish will wear the Spartans down and give them a real rough time in the second half. It takes more out of a lighter player on a day like this.” And the Irish certainly came through in that second half to notch up their third win, and probably their most satisfying.
14
The Scholastic &
U Pittsburgh Surprises Unbeaten Midshipmen f w Four of Six Future ND Opponents Lose
Only two of the six teams Notre Dame faces in the remaining weeks, Southern California and Southern Methodist, were able to duplicate the Irish . victory last Saturday.
I Navy, ND’s next foe, on Oct. 30, J was dropped from the ranks of the ( unbeaten by a- surprising Pittsburgh Weam, 21-19.
An eight-yard plunge by Joe Gat-tuso in the opening minutes gave the Middies a 6-0 lead. The Panthers, however, bounded back with two touch: downs in the second quarter to hold ’ an eight point edge at half time. ' Bill Hepworth was the big man for ।;	Navy with a touchdown and an inter-
11 ception that later accounted for the ,■5^, other Middie score. That was a pass * ^jlay from Dick Echard to Jack Garrow.
, Pennsylvania suffered its fourth straight defeat of the campaign at the hands of George Washington, 3227. The Quaker attack did not begin clicking until the third quarter when the score was 20-6 in favor of the Colonials. The rally was stunted by one of two TD passes tossed by GW’s Richie 1 Gaskell and Penn trailed 26-20 at the end of the period.
f North Carolina’s Tar Heels were no • match for Maryland after- battling Hurricane Hazel and fell prey to the Terrapins, 33-0. ‘
Dick Bielski added a touchdown, su. perb blocking for the second score, ; and 102 yards rushing, to the Mary;	land cause. The second and third teams
pos-'d three touchdowns in the final
I p< -
Iowa was victimized for the second Straight week by losing a 20-14 battle to Ohio State.
Both Hawkeye tallies were countered by Earl Smith, Big Ten broad jump champion. He opened the scoring in the ; first period with an interception and raced 67 yards to paydirt.
f Smith and a PAT tied the count with a 75-yard punt return in the third
' quarter after State took a 14-7 half-„ time lead. Two Iowa drives were halt-?^d on the Buckeye’s five and eleven->^yard lines in the final period. Jim Freeman added both Hawkeye conversions.
Jon Ai-nett, standout Trojan halfback, led Southern California to a 2414 triumph over Oregon by scoring Cal’s three touchdowns in the nation’s TV game of the week.
With the score tied 7-7 at the half, Arnett supplied the tie breaker following an interception by teammate
Lindon Crow in the third frame. Arnett made an interception later and carried over on the second play. Sam Tsagalakis kicked three conversions and a field goal.
Southern Methodist and Duane Nutt humbled Rice, 20-6. The Mustang quarterback passed to Don Mcllhenny, Doyle Nix and Ed Bernet for the three TD’s after trailing 6-0 at the end of the opening period.
The SMU defense tightened in the second half and stopped three Owl drives, once on the Southern Methodist seven and twice on the four.
Garside Coasts to Easy Win With 293 Total in Golf Final
Freshman Tom Garside won the twenty-fourth annual University Open Golf tournament with a 72-hole total of 293 on the Burke Memorial course.
Shooting a par 71 in the final round, Garside finished seven strokes ahead of his nearest competitor, Joe Grace.
TOM GARSIDE Fires Par 71 to Win
Paul Minnick, the tourney’s defending champion, and Charles Thurn finished in a tie for third place with 302 totals.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., who is the varsity golf coach, was especially pleased at the fine showing of the freshmen. Five of the first six places were taken by freshmen, giving Father Holderith a fine nucleus to build on in the coming years.
In recognition of his victory, Garside received the trophy cup from William Burke, son of the man after whom the course was named. Grace also was awarded a cup for being runner-up.
ND Meets Warriors After Absorbing Loss
Notre Dame’s cross-country squad will tangle with Marquette this afternoon at 4 p. m. on the golf course. The Irish harriers have participated in three meets, and are on the winning side of the ledger with a 2-1 record.
After ripping off two decisive victories over Wheaton and Michigan Normal, the Irish ran up against the University of Michigan, the nation’s topranking crew. The Wolverines, paced by their ace Ron Wallingford, squeek-ed past the Irish, 26-29, last Friday on the Notre Dame golf course.
Touring the turf in 19:53, Wallingford led the pack. Bill Squires and Jim Daly romped in for the Green and White with clockings of 19:59 and 20-21, respectively. However, Michigan’s rear men provided the deciding factor, as they legged past the Irish for the fourth, fifth, and sixth slots.
Notre Dame maintained a heavy command at the two and a half mile mark with Squires, Daly, and Jack Gits leading the charge. But as the minutes ticked away, the Irish began to wilt, and Wallingford drove into the lead.
NEW OLIVETTI 22 PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
Featherweight with nylon and leather case. Perfect condition. Retail price, $97.75; will sell for $70. Phone 4-8373.
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
- 1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
' October 22, 1954
15
Placement Bureau Schedules Job Interviews For January AB Candidates and Grad Students
The Placement Bureau has announced an agenda of 14 interviews for the week of Oct. 25-29.
Engineers and chemists are in demand for Monday’s interviews. The Toledo Edison Co. of Toledo, Ohio and the Department of Navy, Bureau of Ships, Washington, D. C., will meet with B.S. electrical and mechanical engineers. The former is also interested in Commerce seniors while the Navy Department wishes to see B.S. and M.S. civil engineers. B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. aeronautical, chemical, electrical and mechanical engineers and metallurgists may see the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics for work in research, development and test operations.
The Shell Oil Co., Shell Chemical Corp., and Shell Development Co., will hold a conference with Ph.D. chemists for research, development, and various plant operations.
On Tuesday the International Business Machines Corp, will interview A.B. and Commerce students interested in sales. They will also see Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. physicists, and electrical and mechanical engineers. The other interview on Tuesday will be held for accounting majors by the O’Brien Corp.
Wednesday, accounting majors will talk with representatives from Lybrand, Ross Bros., and Montgomery. AB and Commerce graduates interested in sales will meet with the Proctor and Gam
Spring Semester in Europe
You can travel and study in Europe for 5% months for only $1050.
The Institute of European Studies, a non-profit corporation, offers American students this unique and economical opportunity of enriching their lives through travel and study in Europe. Students live in Vienna, Austria, and study at the University of Vienna.
The broad variety of English taught courses now includes: History, Languages, Psychology, Philosophy, Political Science, Literature, Economics, Art, Music, and other special courses.
To complement the creditable courses at the University, IES has arranged carefully directed travel programs through England, Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, Austria. Yugoslavia, Switzerland.
Sailing Date: February 5, 1955, on The Liberte
Price includes round trip ocean transportation, room and board, tuition at the University and travel expenses.
Application Deadline: December 21, 1954
For details and descriptive material please contact Mr. Walt Clemens, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, or write
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
7325 South Maryland Avenue, Chicago 19, Illinois
ble Distributing Co., and both B.S. and M.S. civil, aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers will be interviewed by Convair, a division of General Dynamics Corp. Convair is also interested in B.S. and M.S. physicists and mathematicians.
Lockheed Aircraft Corp., of Burbank, Cal., and Boeing Airplane Co. of Seattle, Washington and Wichita, Kan. will see B.S. and M.S. electrical, mechanical, and aeronautical engineers on Thursday. Boeing also needs M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in physics or applied mathematics for design, research, and production.
Two other firms, General Motors Corp., and General Electric Co., will hold interviews on Thursday. General Motors Corp, wants B.S. mechanical, electrical, industrial, chemical, metallurgical and aeronautical engineers. Both companies also seek AB and Commerce graduates for assignments in accounting, finance, and production and B.S. chemists, physicists, and mathematicians. General Electric will meet Ph.D. candidates in physics, chemistry, metallurgy, and mathematics who expect to complete their work within the next 18 months.
The lone interview on Friday will be held by the Johnson Service Company of Milwaukee, Wis., for B.S. and M.S. electrical and mechanical engineers in research and sales engineering.
AQUIHS-
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
16
The Scholastic^
4
Gilbert's Special Purchase!
Men’s Jackets
1-2 price

For Stadium, Campus and every winter outdoor activity
Were 10.95 NOW 5.48
Were 14.95 NOW 7.48
Were 15.95 NOW 7.98
Were 18.95 NOW 9.48
Were 24.95 NOW 12.48
Fine weather-resisting SURCOATS and HIP-LENGTH jackets, some with breast stripes, some reversibles, some rayon-lined, some wool quilted lined, in all desirable colors. Sizes 36 to 54, but not all sizes in every style.
Open Every Evening Until 9:00
^GILBERT'S
809-817 S. Michigan St. o
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
17
^October 22, 1954
7 I
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
SLEEP LEARNING “The Revolution in Education”
Now . . . you can literally “sleep your way through college’’—actually learn languages, poetry, prose, tables of numbers, vocabulary words, lecture notes —ALL WHILE YOU SLEEP!
Illustrated booklet, “Learn a Language—While You Sleep,” tells astonishing results—gives complete instructions on how any student can make device cheaply, with no work involved —no mechanical experience necessary.
Sleep-learning is not injurious in any way—does not disturb sleep. Your money back if results not obtained. Clip this ad —send for booklet today. (Price $2.00).
Sleep-Learning Research Ass'*.
114 S. 3Bth. Ave.-Omaha 3. Nebr.
41 years of teaching experience! Over a million delighted pupils! No other studio can match this record!
DANCE LESSONS COST LESS AT
BECAUSE YOU LEARN FASTER
ARTHUR MURRAY'S
No wonder The Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is recognized as the finest, most thorough, and inexpensive method in the country. The whole secret is in Arthur Murray’s basic discovery, "The Magic Step To Popularity.” This is the key step to all dances, and even a beginner can learn it in one lesson. And, because there is only this one master step to learn, you need fewer lessons and thus save time and money. Come in now and have a free trial lesson while 2 for 1 rates are in effect.
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne
Phone 2-3339
D*RWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
We Welcome You to the
THE TWINS RESTAURANT PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN T-Bone—STEAKS—Porterhouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St.
Phone 3-0951

Eight Awarded Ford Grants; I Campus Group Now Totals 18^1
Eight new students, seven freshmen I and one sophomore, have raised the I total of Ford Scholars here to 18, ac- | cording to Bud LaLonde, president of I the Ford Scholars of Notre Dame. I
This gives Notre Dame the largest | contingent of the Scholars at any priv- i ately endowed school in the U. S. |
New freshmen Scholars are Richard , Adymy, Charles Ahern, Thomas Cote^/; Kenneth DeSenedictis, Henry DeCaluwe™ i Charles Kitz, and Donald Yamevich. I The new sophomore is Bernardo Gio-
vannone.
To be eligible for a Ford Scholarship a student must be in the upper one-third of his high school graduating class, and one of his parents must work for the Ford Motor Co. He is then chosen on. the basis of a competitive exam and personal interview.	j
The Ford Motor Co. fund furnishes-^ tuition and 80 per cent of the cost of room and board.	.
The Ford Scholars of Notre Dame is the only such campus club in the U. S., and publishes a paper for the Scholars all over the country.
Engineers Dance
(Continued from page 9) one of last year’s Chicago Club dances. His has been one of the most populai^y ( names among Midwestern and Big Ten27 college dance-goers for the past few years.
Among other engagements Palmer and his band list stints at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, Red Cross and USO dates, and Treasury Department television shows. He has broadcasted numerous times on the CBS radio network.
Don Gels and his campus musicians^' will provide melodies during the intermissions.
In addition to Co-Chairmen Bauden-istel and Magill, other members of the ball committee are: George Van Bes-ien, decorations; Randall Carli, blind date bureau; Joe Kearney, tickets; Paul Marbach, business manager; Bernard Tracy, refreshments; and Frank McCarthy, publicity.
K of C MEMBERSHIP
Men who wish to join the Knights of Columbus organization on campus should contact the K of C membership chairman in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Hours are from 4 to 5 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; and from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday.
18
The Scholastic^'
Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program for Master of Science Degrees
A program to assist outstanding individuals in studying for the Master of Science Degree while employed in industry and making contributions to important military work. Open to students who will receive the B. S. degree in Electrical Engineering, Physics or Mechanical Engineering during the coming year, and to members of the Armed Services honorably discharged and holding such B. S. degrees.
Candidates must meet entrance requirements for advanced study at University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California. Participants will work full time during the summer in the Hughes Laboratories and 25 hours per week while pursuing a half-time schedule of graduate study at the university.
Salary is commensurate with the individual’s ability and experience. Tuition, admission fees and books for university attendance are provided. Provision is made to assist in paying travel and moving expenses from outside Southern California.
HOW
APPLY
for the Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program: Address all correspondence to the Committee for Graduate Study. Brochure with complete details will be salt to you promptly.
HUGHES
Research
and Development
Laboratories
Culver City, Los Angeles County, California
I
<*
'(ING
to
l|G«rr1
TOBACCO co.
4




JACK WEBB & BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Fi ank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award winning “Dragnet” on TV and radio. Thev’re now in movies too . . . Warner Bros, great new picture "Dragnet”.
PAIRi
WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield King Size at the New Low Price and Chesterfield Regular
You’ll like Chesterfield regular — as Jack Webb does —or king-size, like Ben Alexander. Either way, you get the same satisfying mildness, the same wonderful taste, the same refreshing smoke every time. And you get the cigarette proved highest in quality — low in nicotine.
So change to Chesterfield. Enjoy America’s favorite two-way cigarette. They satisfy millions — they’ll satisfy you.


TODAY'S CHESTERFIELD IS THE BEST CIGARETTE EVER MADE
CHESTERFIELD
BEsrfwrw
©Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.