
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

2001 Indiana Collegiate Pre~.s Association SCHOLaSTIC 
News Magazine .of the Year 
understand campus events even when you're not on campus 
.-.. \ 
·iJ® ·1s~UE~ ·~ DOLLARS 
l . ·.· --·---.· -·. '..---,. ·----.. ---... -----7 
,1 .. PLEASE PL.ACE Me oN vouR@'lll~®J?11f(~ 1..1si seND TH1s FORM AND 1 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: ' I NAME: ---------------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE I
I 315 LAFORTUNE S,TUD0ENT CENTER I f ADDRESS: ---------------,,-----. NOTRE DAME, IN 4.6556 _ .1 
I ----,---------,------------I
I ,, _·.• I 

u M M E R


2001s 
Scholastic reviews the top news stories of the 2000-01 academic year to bring you up to_ date. 
(~Pack It_ Up, Move it Out •--I 16 
1:\~YJacklyn Kiefer an'!KristenAlw~~ · 
Start preparing for the move now! 1 Some advice from veteran packers to help you figure outwfiat you need. 
rl,,.;:=;···· --~ ---• 
t Home Sweet Home 
20 

·\. · by Jacklyn Kiefer 
¾--=-·=============a 
You'll be living there'forthe next few . years, so you might as well get to . know your dorm's traditions now. 
I . /J;adame President  . -. · ij  13  
I i:  ·by_MatthewZiegler  
, !; Faces to Remember .· lJ;f byliesl Marx and Matthew Ziegler ·1 Perfect Strangers . L.Pi Allison Fashek  --·· •  14 23  

Clubbing at Notre Dame 24 :1:. byJackiyn Kiefer 
1

. . Spotlights 
30 1; byGerard Meskill 1 I·Is Th_~re Anything to do · 
34 [ ' Arou'nd Here? · 
byKaraZuaro 
.. Finding aVoice. 
37 

~ byCarrie Sweeney ­~ --3~ .· ·_· ___ c,c·--=·=="'==~ 
-I

thedepartm·ents 
r 


.From the Edito_r 4 Week in Distortion 39 I
I. 

ND Notebook 6 Final Word 40 I ~-campus Watch 29 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

swift simple smart 

Announcing 

--------------7 


Initial l 
ISocial SecurifyNumberIID Number 
tLocal Address , , 


ILc>calPhohe'.Nurilber , 


Enclosed is the following amount to open a Domer Dollar Account $__ (minimum $50) 
Deposit is by: _Cash _Check 


, Please mail to: University of Notre Dame Card Services Office P.O. Box ID43 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7814 Domer Dollars are convenient "electronic funds" that allow you campus-wide purchasing power. You can buy just about anything without having to carry cash. Just use your University ID card to make purchases at these locations: 
The Hammes Bookstore The Copy Shop Notre Dame Print Services The Morris Inn The OIT Solution Center 

Notre Dame Food Services locations: Huddle Mart Allegro Subs Bruger King Tomassito's Italian Pizza Reckers Cafe De Grasta Greenfield International Cafe Cafe Poche Common Stock Sandwich Co. Irish Cafe Waddick's 
Vending and Laundry in these halls: St. Edward's Knott McGlinn O'Neill Pasquerilla East 
, Pasquerilla West 
, Siegfried Welsh Family Zahm 

Future locations will include Vending Machines and Laundry PAID ADVERTISEMENTS 

YOU'LL KNOW WHEN PIGS FLY••. 
Come visit our office on campus! Lafortune Student Center


=)Anthor'!Y7iavel 
(219) 631-7080 
The Official Travel Service of the University of Notre Dame 
www.anthonytravel.com 
Here to serve all of your traveling needsl 
~ Great Student Discou~t~ ·€a Spring Break Trips '® Special Event Travel €iInternational Travel Experts ~ United Limo· Bus Tickets e.) Car and Hotel Arrangements 

If you have somewhere to go, We1II get you therel 

Helping people experience and enjoy the world 


Vol. 143, No. 01 • SUMMER 2001 
scholastj~]offi~~{a_ff_______, 
Editor in Chief Michael P. Griffin 

Executive Editor Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah Childress Matthew Barr Jessica L. Daues 
News 
Campus Life Sports Entertainment Departments 
Design 
Photography Graphic Arts Copy 
Distribution Advertising 
Online 
Marketing 

Matthew C. Ziegler, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant Gerard J. Meskill, editor David Murray, assistant Kathleen Corte, editor Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Cristin E. Faniel, editor Crissy Manary, editor Katie Browning, assistant Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Katherine A. Foster, editor Michael M. delaRosa, editor Adam M. Aroian, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant Felisia Johns, manager Jessica B. Potish, manager Kyle Zuaro, assistant . 
F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant Kristen D'Arcy, manager 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No_ contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Join Scholastic and the force will be with you. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All lett11rs must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Back Issues··. of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student ~ody. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 


Westward Bound 

It was pointless to claim that the pollen blowing across Interstate 80 precip­tated my tears that day. Declarations of an intense allergy season would have fooled no one. Instead, I sat silently in the back of my family's minivan as New Jersey gave way to Pennsylvania, Ohio and finally Indiana. I huddled there, realizing that the tears that August morning wouldn't be solely mine. Acting macho didn't seem necessary. Some witch's brew of anxiety, dread and mournfulness instilled in me a sensitivity I had not expected. I became absorbed in the life that I was leaving. That same week, my best friend was heading east to New England. I had never considered living without him. We had met the first day of kindergarten when our gray-haired teacher ripped him from his mother and sat him in the seat across from me. Thirteen years later, we were being separated for the first time. The girl I was crazy about was stuckin high school for another year. The night before I left, we stood outside her apartment, making small talk, fearing the inevitable. In the comfortable warmth of that late summer night, she admitted that she loved me. And that night, we were forced to part. Finally, my family was being scattered from New Jersey across the country. My sister was already living in Delaware; my brother was soon to move south to Georgia. In a few days, my parents would head back home. Indeed, I felt no reason to act macho that humid morning. What I couldn't imagine at the time was that Xwouldfind anew world among the cornfields of the Midwest. Some people find soulmates instantly; others take months to find their groups. No matter which group you fall into when you arrive, I urge you to go out and meet people -you'11 be surprised by how many awesome people there are here at Notre Dame. Sure, you'll miss your distant friends and family, but don't despair. In such . close proximity, roommates and dormmates quickly become the best of friends. And, thanks to the godsend that came in the form of a 1972 policy change, both . girls and guys walk the concrete quads of Notre Dame. 
Shameless Plug 
Scholastic is among the oldest collegiate publications in the country. Like 
many other aspects oflife at Notre Dame, it is a tradition that extends virtually 
to the founding of the university. First published in 1867, Scholastic has been 
produced reliably every year since its establishment. ­
Your job is to continue that tradition for four more years. I'm talking to 
anyone out there who has a talent-or even a vague unexplored interest-in 
writing, editing, page design, Web design, photography, advertising or market­
ing. We need you all-sacred tradition is counting on you. 
So, e-mail us at scholast@nd.edu for more information, or come by our booth 
at Activities Night -that's September 4 -and talk to us about signing up. 
In the meantime, celebrate the last few days of summe'l / . 
. . miw1¾l Pa 
· Micliael P. Griffin Editor in Chief griffifi.41@nd.edu 
4 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


This annual Notre Dame event will provide you the first opportunity to meet with representatives from ... 
* 200+ Student Clubs/Organizations  * Academic Clubs  
* 30+ Local Service Agencies  * Club Sports Teams  
* RecSports  * Ethnic Clubs  
* Center for Social Concerns  * Service/Social Action Clubs  
* Student Union Board  * Special Interest Clubs  
* Student Government  

-


Over 3,500 students attended last year! Don't be left out! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CHECK OUT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON-LINE AT: 
w w w. n.d. e du I -s a o /an/ 




cd review ten questions judgment calls news listening in domelights years ago 

Learn Your Irish 

A lexicon ofkey words you'll need to know Compiled by Cristin Fenzel 
>> 

Carolyn Weir, the Class of 2001's valedictorian, is a PLS and theology double major from Greensburg, Pa. She sports a 
3.95 GPA and actually doe_s-and enjoys -all ofher reading. Scholastic caught up with her right before graduation to learn a few of her secrets for a successful career under the Golden Dome. 
Do you have any free time with that GPA? 
No, I don't have a lot offree time, but it's not all academics. I'm an RA and I'm in FolkChoir,andldoalotofserviceactivities, butI always loved what I studied, so it never was really much of a·chore. 

Did you always plan on becomil}g 
valedictorian? 

No, I'm a PLS and theology major, and I know I ~hose those majors because I never really went out for the grades. I always had a great love for learning, and if you really love what you're doing, which I did, it's not about the grades. 
Were you chosen based just on your GPA? 
No. There were two people chosen from every college, and from there you interview with your dean, submit a peer recommendation, and tumin a three-minute draft of your valedictory address and· a resume, so they look at a lot of things. 
You're from Pennsylva~ia. Last year's 
AFS (space): IBM-owned acronym for "AndrewsFiling System." University-pro­vided personal storage space for computer files. Accessible worldwide, from both Macs and PCs. CoMo: The Coleman-Morse Center, which offers free late-night soda and popcorn. D6, D2/02000: Student parking lots. Located west of South Quad and east of Mod Quad, respectively. DART: DirectAccessRegistrationbyTenni­nal. A computerized class-registration sys­tem; it is slated for phaseout in favor of an Internet-based system. 
-Detex: Trademark for electronic door keys used at Notre Dame, primarily in women's dorms. Dogbook: The annual photo directory ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. Tradition­ally used as an aid for finding SYR dates. Grab 'n' Go: Take-out dining-hall meals in a paper sack. Fieldhouse Mall: Landscaped area immedi­ately surrounding Stonehenge used for out­
door festivities. The former location of the Fieldhouse, a long-demolished athletic facility. Hookup: Random opposite-sex fun time. The Huddle: Officially known as the Huddlemart, a convenience store in LaFun. IrishLink: Online system for accessing per­sonal academic information. JACC ("Jack"): Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Location ofthe bas­ketball and hockey arenas as well as all­purpose meeting space. LaFun: LaFortune Student Center. Monk: Rev. Edward A. Malloy, university president. Your number: From a student, your phone number; from anyone else on campus, your Social Security Number. O'Shag: O'Shaughnessy Hall. The College ofArts and Letters' building. QuarterDogs: Hotdogs that sell for a quarter apiece in the Huddle after midnight. Parietals: Dorm visiting hours for guests of the opposite sex. 
Reckers: 24-hour restaurant, located on the south side ofSouth Dining Hall. The Rock: Rockne Memorial. An exercise facility on South Quad. Smick (chicks): Saint Mary's (students). Stepan Center: An ugly building used for large fuctions located on the far north side of campus. Don'tconfuseitwith Stepan Chem­istry Hall, which is attached to the Nieuwland Science Hall. Stonehenge: War memorial fountain at the south end ofNorth Quad. SUB: Student Union Board. Sponsors vari­ous campus activities. SYR: Screw Your Roommate. The unofficial term for what is now officially the "semi­formal dance." From the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate for the event. TCE: Teacl;ler-Course Evaluation. Surveys given at the end of every course asking stu­dents their opinions on the course. Touchdown Jesus: Mosaic on the library that blesses the football team. . 
···<>t=ight·so·11ga11~.··Alma.. l\/lat~r·~-~~----~-~~-~---~~~~--------~-~~---,  judgmentcalls  
Cheer, cheerfor old Notre Dame!  
authors: Michael and John Shea, Joseph Casasanta release dates: 1908 and 1930 Compiled by Jessica Daues  8·..__c..~/~···_<>'--"-Fr_osh......._·a"--'.j  
If you get tired of  
constantly repeating  
your name, dorm and  


Notre Dame Victory March (Fight Song) 
Known as the greatest ofall college fight 
songs, the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates around the turn of the century. Memorize the song now and 

you'll save yourself some hassle from upperclassmen come the first home football game. 
Rally sons of Notre Dame: Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Notre Dame We will fight in ev'ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame. 


>> 
valedictorian was from Pennsylvania. Former Student-Body president Brian O'Donoghue is not only from Pennsylvania, he was your co-valedictorian in high school -what's going on with your state? Is there something in the water? 
I don't know -not that I know of! 
What piece of advice would you give to the incoming freshman? 
Choose a major that you're really interested in getting an education in, not just for the money. And get involved, because it's really the people that make Notre Dame so special. 
What will you be doing next year? 
hometown, you can 
Chorus: 
always just make up a 
Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame, 
new alias each time. 
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, 

•·•·'.Fbotball;,ticket\ 
Shake down the thunder from the sky. 


idisfributiorL 
What though the odds be great or small 
Another attempt to 
Old Notre Dame will win over all, 
simulate the murdered 
While her loyal sons go marching 
tradition of camping out
Onward to victory. 
for football tickets. 

Notre Dame, Our Mother (Alma Mater) 
High-school The Notre Dame alma mater, "Notre Dame, • valedictorians Our Mathe,~" is peifonned at the end of every 
You're a dime a dozen

football game at Notre Dame Stadium, no matter 
here.

what the outcome. Although the song's only verse is actually composed offive lines, you really only need to know the last one. Trust us. 
CD ~N.~ toollun.ates I 

Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true, 
Sometimes they turn 
Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and 
out to be your best friend; 
Blue. 
other times, your worst 
Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, 
enemy. Eitherway, be nice:
And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame; 
They'll be taking your phone 
And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame! 
messages. 
::. 
I'll be working in Washington, D.C. for the U.S. Catholic Conference, researching policy in Catholic schools. 
What are your plans for the future? 
It's a year-long program, and after that I'll probably go to graduate school to get a Ph.D. in theology or a master's of divinity. Ifl"do the master's, I'll probably get a law degree with that. 
Did you have a favorite superhero as a kid? 
,. 
Yeah, Wonder Woman. I liked to watch the show, and I kind ofthought I looked like her because we both had dark hair. Actually ... no, I can't tell you that. 
Aw, come on. We won't print it if you don't want us to. 
No, it's OK, I don't care. My friends actually used to call me "Wonder Weir." I didn't like it for a long time, but eventually I was fine with it. 
Can you tell us what your address is about? 

It's about first and foremost the gifts of faith, hope and love that Notre Dame has given to us, and how those gifts make its graduates unique, coupled with skills from classes and professors, and how these have challenged us with responsibility to be ·servant leaders, no matter what fields we go into. 
-Kristin Kramer 



62Years Ago 
School Daze 

Afraid you'll get lost when you arrive atNotreDame?Well,OK,youprobably will-at least once. But take comfort in the knowledge that freshmen here have been doing it for years. The September 22, 1939 issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic offered this tale of first-day embarrassment: 
Registration traditionally finds Freshmen bewildered. This year they stood in line for hours . ... [Yet today,] one freshman, neither bewildered nor awed, drove up to the Main Building in a taxi, calmly got out and walked up the front steps followed by a cabbie with bags. We expected every moment to hear him call for room and valet. Things like that destroy our faith in human nature. 
Not to worry -registration is far less time-consuming nowadays, and we have the utmost faith that you will be able to find your dorm with ease. Just try notto check in at the Golden Dome. 
-Cristin Fenzel 

"This is like the blind leading the lame over the precipice of ignorance." 
-psychology professor 

,, .,,, .~•, t:,•; . '· :· :~·~:~· ,.._..·::~'..· ~:.:.:·i;~··'.··::,•:'~:':·,·t;>·:::_:~:s~:•:,-; ~ );:_:::~~.t~.::~::~~,\:/~.:·:.~·-,;:.::_:;/\',:,. );:,)'.:i}~~~;~>:\_~;:;·,~:\:,:r.•; 
"My philosophy is that if you're going to be confused, you may as well be good-and-damned confused." 
-engineering profes~or 


Every state is represented at Notre Dame. From the Pacific to the Atlantic, high-school seniors make the decision to come to north­ern Indiana to enjoy all that ND has to offer. The states with the most confirmed fresh­men are listed here. Don't be surprised if your future roommate has a Chicago ac­cent, folds his pizza or calls soda "pop." 
Most common states of origin for the Class of 2005 
1. Illinois, 196 2. Ohio, 185 3. Indiana, 169 4. Texas, 130 5. Pennsylvania, 116 6. California, 112 7. New York, 1 08 



NOTRE DAME ISN'T A FOOTBALL FACTORY. 







IT'S A PRIEST FACTORY. 
our team ofrecent ND alums ... 

Discover Your Vocation At Notre Dame. 



www .nd.edu/-vocation 
*
ANSWER 
THECALL W 


; I 



break b · ba rm v.p. vi·si·ts rote controvers11 cosmo criticizeslosses mourned women arners s-"ded J 
residential Cam nVisit 
IB lar Raids 
In what many considered a crackdown year on underage drinking, Notre Dame was one stop last year on the campaign trail of South Bend police cited more than150 minors in two separate ?ar
Democratic vice-presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman. The raids. These accompanied several busts of off-campus parties,Connecticut senator delivered an address at Washington Hall resulting in further fines and other punitive measures for students advocating the consideration of religious values in public-policy from both law enforcement and the university. 
decisions. Quoting from the Torah, the Koran and theNewTestament, The largest raid occurred at Finnigan's Irish Pub on October !3,
Lieberman claimed that American society has "lost its moral bearings" 2000, the Friday before fall break. At around 1 :30 a.m., poh~eand needs to look for common faith-based values to improve the surrounded the bar and began carding patrons. The bust resulted m often "toxic" content ofmass media. The crowd of570 students and 147 citations for minors being in a tavern. Several fake IDs were also faculty packed the house, and many complained about the difficulty confiscated. Nearly all caught were students at either Notre Dame of obtaining tickets. 
or St. Mary's. Recipients included several student-athletes, mostBut not everyone on campus gave Lieberman a warm welcome. 
notably Irish basketball player Troy Murphy. Many in the local Many students from campus pro-life groups appeared outside_ the community have campaigned to have Finnigan's liquor licensebuilding to protest the Gore-Leiberman ticket's support ofabort10n. 
rescinded, as was done with two other local bars that had been busted One student, a senior and former Holy Cross seminarian, interrupted with a comparable number of minors.
the speech, shouting, "What about abortion?" Lieberman calmly In a smaller incident, police performed a "walk-through" atresponded, saying that the student had made his point and asked that Bench warmer's Sports Lounge on January 24, carding numerousthe same respect be accorded to him. 
patrons, but this resulted in only 18 citations. A typical sentence for the violation included a fine and community-service hours. 
enerations Breaks Records 
BUSTED South Bend police cited several underage ND and St. Mary's students this fall at Benchwarmer's (below). 
Notre Dame's six-year fundraising drive, "Generations: A Campaign for the Notre Dame Student," came to an end in 2000. It was the largest and most successful campaign in the school's history, raising a total of $1.061 billion in gifts and pledges, most of which came from alumni and their families. The drive had a 74 percent alumni participation rate, and it made Notre Dame the first Catholic university-and only the 12th private university-ever to collect more than $1 billion dollars in one campaign. The original goal of$767 million was exceeded well before the drive' s closing date. 
Among the biggest goals ofthe fundraising effort were an incre~se in need-based scholarships, an expansion ofendowed faculty cha1rs and building improvements~ Notre Dame is able to offer 

10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 


BUMPS ON THE QUAD In a university-approved demonstration, several 
students slept outside overnight to protest the failure of a movement to 
extend evening parietals.
nti-Parietals Action 

[XJear of the Woman 
Students once again brought grievances about residence-hall parietals to the forefront ofcampus-life issues this year. InFebruary, Two campus institutions historically occupied exclusively by
a survey of student opinion regarding parietals was included with men first took on women this year. All eyes were on the Irish Guard° 
the class-council election ballots. The referendum asked whether at the first home football game as junior Molly Kinder became the 
the voters would favor extending parietals from 10 a.m. to 9 a.m. in first female to march in the elite 51-year-old group, which leads the 
the morning and from 12 a.m. to 1 a.m. on weekday nights. Though band onto the field. She was the only woman among 28 students
administrators approved the survey, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president who tried out for six openings in the group. Kinder auditioned
forresidence life, said the results would not likely effect any change unsuccessfully the previous year but practiced during her time
in the existing policy. working in Chile over the summer. Response to her selection was 
Eighty percent of those who voted in the referendum were in mixed. Band director Kenneth Dye was quoted as saying the Kinder 
favor of the parietals extension. As a result, a Student Senate met the same qualifications as the other nine members ofthe squad, 
committee drafted a proposal for the Campus Life Council, a group regardless of her gender. Though many saw her acceptance as
ofstudents, faculty and administrators charged with recommending progress, some were disappointed that tradition in the fraternity­
policy changes to the Office ofStudent Affairs. Though the group like group had been broken. 
passed the resolution to extend parietals in the morning, each ofthe In February, junior Brooke Norton and sophomore running mate 
rectors and the one administrator on the council voted against the Brian Moscona were elected student-body president and vice
evening proposal -enough votes to sink the measure. president, respectively, for the 2001-02 term. Norton, who served 
In response to the defeat of the evening extension measure, as vice president in 2000-01, is the first woman to occupy the office 
students organized a protest campout on South Quad in the end of ofpresident. This culminated one ofthe most diverse election years 
April. Approved by administrators and the police department, an in school history with respect to race and gender. Two black
estimated 200 students slept outside to show their displeasure. students and a total ofsix women ran for positions in the campaign. 
Further action by administrators on the issue is unlikely in the near This was a significant change from the previous year, when all but 
future. one of the candidates -Norton herself-were white.men. 
,....... 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 
n' 'fl 
~ooo-2ooi 



The campus contigent of the Catholic pacifist group Pax Christi stepped up criticism of Notre Dame's Reserve Officers' Training Corps this year. The organization sponsored a series of discussions titled "Catholic Perspectives on ROTC" early in the school year, drawing audiences composed largely ofROTC students. In one talk, the Rev. Michael Baxter, an associate professor of theology, spoke on the military' s alledgedly poor handling ofconscientious objectors in the GulfWar. Another featured a dialogue between a Pax Christi member and a student in ROTC about Catholic theories on war and pacifism. Pax Christi members frequently complain that ROTC students are not required to take a course on Catholic teaching regarding the legitimacy of warfare. 
The event that made the biggest impact, however, was the group's protest ofROTC's annual Presidential Pass in Review, a ceremony over which University President Rev. Edward Malloy presides as the cadets' reviewing officer. Members of Pax Christi felt Malloy' s action symbolized the university and the Catholic Church's approval of the actions of the American military. Though the protesters initially planned to stage a sit-in on the ceremony, which was scheduled to take place on South Quad, the university moved the venue to the Loftus Sports Center for what it said was inclement weather. Pax Christi members instead congregated outside the building to pray as participants walked in. The group also published a full-page advertisement in The Observer challenging ROTC members to consider their status as conscientious Catholics and officers-in-training. 
exual-Assault Policies Changed 
IMlurehy, Clary die of Leukemia 
Two Notre Dame students died this year of complications from leukemia. Junior Brionne Clary, a resident of Welsh Family Hall, passed away in late September. Though she had already once beat the disease in high school, Clary was re-diagnosed with leukemia just days before the beginning of the school year and contracted pneumonia several weeks later. An engineering major and interhall basketball player, she was taken back to her hometown in Bryan, Texas for funeral services. Welsh rector Adrienne Piennette described her as "avery enthusiastic person" who was "missed in the hall" over the course of her treatment. 
Zahm resident Conor Murphy, a junior from Lakewood, Ohio, passed away early on January 31. Upon news that Murphy's health had declined, friends packed the Zahm Hall chapel for Mass the previous evening to offer prayers for him. Murphy was active in Campus Ministry and College Democrats during his time on campus, andhe spent summers working on service projects in the Dominican Republic and Northern Ireland. A tree-planting ceremony was held outside Zahm and a memorial Mass was celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on March 22, just two days after what would have been Murphy's 21st birthday. 
The two students inspired the larger Notre Dame campus to a greater awareness. of the tragic effects of leukemia. At Murphy's encouragement, more than 600 people registered as potential bone­marrow donors in a National Marrow Donor Program drive held on campus in March 2000. Just this April, the residence halls of Murphy, Clary and Miranda Thomas, a third member the class of 2002 who died from leukemia in 1999, sponsored a, five-kilometer race in memory of the deceased. 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's administrators were criticized heavily this year for lax disciplinary and reporting procedures following reports ofsexual assualt. An article in the March issue ofCosmopolitan made the biggest waves, describing an alleged rape ofa St. Mary's student by a Notre Dame male in January 1999. The accused was found not guilty of violating the school's sexual-misconduct code in a 
disciplinary hearing conducted by the university. The article claimed the woman was "stonewalled" by the personnel ofher own school and was similarly disregarded by the Notre Dame administration officials, but the article did not quote officials from either campus. 
In May, a non-profit organization called Security on Campus Inc. filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education,:alleging that St. Mary's failed to disclose reported sexual assaults as required by federal law. The complaint also expressed concern about related procedures at Notre Dame. In response, St. Mary's says that it is working towards adjusting its policies so that they are in full compliance with the law and has taken decisive action to encourage the prevention ofsexual assault. 
Notre Dame has made several refinements to its procedure for handling reports of sexual misconduct in recent months. An addition was made to du Lac, Notre Dame's student handbook, to clarify that no one reporting an assault occurring after parietals would be charged with a parietals violation. Also, though the university claims the move was unrelated to the publicity in Cosmopolitan, Ava Preacher, the assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed as the first resource person for those seeking counseling for sexual-assault victims. 0 
. . 

~ORV ·. TryThis i2,500MenR With Him 
oThelr Haughtiest Wl ; 3onight 
• How tn Alp Their s i %:li;ti;j 
!'.',;·; 
!i!t~ u 
IPLUS Yoor Fasli
i(l\1lat'sRightfor 
·woMEN 
12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 



Madame President 
Newly elected administration hands power to students 
CARPE DIEM Student-Body President Brooke Norton and Vice President Brian Moscona plan to use their year in office to inject new life into student government and campus life. 
MATTHEWZIEGLER
"The time is now," urged presidential 
candidate Brooke Norton and vice­
presidential candidate Brian Mosc~na at the onset of this year's student­body election. With this motto, the newly elected pair calls students to increase their involvement in student government and hopes to build on the programs established during the last administration, for which Norton served as vice president. 
Norton, a senior majoring in government and international relations from Glendora, Calif., resides in Walsh Hall. Norton has an extensive list of successful projects with which she has been involved over the P,ast three years, including the establishment of the Rectors Fund, a $30,000 nest egg to which any student can apply for financial help to participate in dances, trips and other aspects ofstudent life. She has also assisted in creating a voter-registration drive, in which more than 1,000 absentee ballots were distributed to students during the last national election, and she oversaw the Keys to Success conference, which brought al­most 200 South Bend eighth-graders to Notre Dame for a day to expand their academic horizons. 

Norton's term as student-body vice presi­dent has given her plenty of experience for her new job, as did her prior years as sopho­more-class vice president and freshman­class secretary. Her vice president, Brian Moscona, a StanfordHalljuniorfromBaton Rouge, La., has served as freshman class secretary and sophomore-class president. Norton sees the knowledge the two ac­quiredin their previous student-government positions as important in helping them serve students. "We know that we can use our experience, ...· skills and our teamwork to make the university a better place," she says. In addition to developing many fresh ideas for next year, Norton and Moscona have also incorporated a few old ones into their agenda. One of their primary goals is to increase student involvement and awareness in campus-government issues. They plan to · initiate a series ofmonthly "town-hall meet­ings," to which all students will be invited to 
enjoy a free dinner, discuss campus issues and propose changes. Norton also hopes to establish a quarterly progress report to dis­tribute among students and improve the student government's Web site so that stu­dent suggestions can be registered online. 
Gender and diversity issues are another high priority for the Norton administration. The pair hopes to implement a "Student Services Center," which would create work­shops and seminars covering such topics as self-defense and public leadership. :·.,•···'\•.. 
. rt":'-.
Furthermore, the two wish !._\{;.:; .. to form dis­cussion groups for students with eating disor­ders and for victims of sexual as­sault, as well as for stu­dents of dif­ferent faiths. Norton is particularly excited about a "hip-hop conference," which would bring well­
known rap and pop stars to campus to perform and discuss racial issues with students. 
Despite the importance of these issues, the ultimate selling point on any campaign rests in the tangible benefits for the stu­dents, and Norton and Moscona are loaded with ideas to improve student life. As stu­dents often complain about being fleeced by food services, Norton and Moscona plan to revamp several aspects of this program, including expanding the ways in which Flex Points can be used and increasing options at Grab 'n' Go, the dining halls' take-out. The two also hope to convince administrators to allow "open-gate hours," when students will be able to drive cars on campus without the usual hassles involved in getting past secu­rity guards. And, a perennial promise among candidates: Norton and Moscona wish to install campus-wide cable television. This idea has been met with serious logistic prob­lems in the past, but Norton and Moscona feel that they have a thoroughly researched, feasible plan. Animproved freshman-orien­tation program, with su~er camping and hiking expeditions, and campus-wide "mid­~ight breakfasts" on Saturday nights round 
out their goals for student-life improvement. 
Finally, in the area ofservice, Norton and Moscona hope to hold a Third World ben­efit concert, improve campus recycling pro­grams and hold numerous food and clothing drives. 
As the administration's main goal is to "empower students," Norton and Moscona hope that all students will familiarize them­selves and participate in different aspects of campus life. Norton says: "The best way for you to embody the spirit ofNotre Dame is to become involved in the community, and we'd be h~nored to meet with each and every one of you. Please know that student government is here for you." . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

>> MALLOY >> WHITE >> HESBURGH 
"

MONK" MALLOY: The Rev. Ed­
ward A. "Monk" Malloy is the 
16th president of the university, a 
position he has held since 1986. He was 
recently elected to a new five-year term. 
Malloy is more accessible than most uni­
versity presidents -he teaches a fresh­
man seminar each year, Iives in Sorin Hall 
and sometimes shoots hoops with guys 
from the dorm. He attended both Notre 
Dame and Vanderbilt before accepting a 
teaching post in the Notr~ Dame depart­
ment of theology in 1974, a position he 
still holds. 

Malloy is also active in public service, 
chairing the American Council on Educa­
tion and Campus Contact, among other or­
ganizations. He has served as founding di­
rector of the Points ofLight Foundation and 
as a member ofthe National Advisory Coun­
cil on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Cur­
rently, Malloy acts as co-chair of the sub­committee on college drinking of the Na­tional Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alco­holism, a component of the National Insti­tutes of Health. 
TIM SCULLY: Recently elected to a five-year term as the university's executive vice president, the Rev. Timothy Scully succeeded the Rev. E. William Beauchamp in July 2000. In his position, Scully oversees finance, business operations, human re­sources and campus construction. 
A member of the faculty since 1989 and an officer since 1994, Scully has brought many changes to Notre Dame. During his previous service as a vice president and senior associate provost, his responsibilities included international programs and new initiatives in undergraduate education. Un­der his leadership, Notre Dame now has the highest percentage of students studying in­ternationally of any American research in­stitution. He also helped to establish the Institute for Latino Studies. 
MARK POORMAN: Beginning his third year as vice president of student affairs, the Rev. Mark Poorman oversees several as­pects ofuniversity life, including the Office of Residence Life, Student Activities, Campus Ministry, Notre Dame Security/ Police and alcohol-and-drug education. Stu­dents caught breaking the rules will get to know him well. 
Poorman previously worked as an associ­ate professor of theology and directed the university's master's ofdivinity program. He was also the associate director ofCam­pus Ministry, rector of Dillon Hall and priest-in-residence in Grace Hall before it was converted into administrative offices. 
>> BREY 



THEODORE HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore M. Hes burgh preceded Malloy as president ofthe university. He served for 35 years, from 1952 to 1987 -a longer tenure than any active American university presi­dent. The library, the center for international peace studies and the public-service pro­gram all bear his name. His accomplish­ments as president emeritus include instru­mental roles in developing several Notre Dame institutes and centers, principally the Kroc Institute for International Peace Stud­ies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies. Hesburgh is also involved in the Center for Civil and Human Rights, Notre Dame's Hank Environmental Re­search Center near Land O'Lakes, Wis. and the university's Ecumenical InstituteinJ erusa­lem. He spends much of his time giving talks and fulfilling his obligations as a member of numerous international organizations. 
14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
Hesburgh is best known for his public ser­vice. He has held 15 presidential appoint­ments in areas such as civil rights, atomic energy, campus unrest and Third World de­velopment. His commitment to education is reflected in his 135 honorary degrees-more than any other American holds. This year he was also honored with a U.S. Congressional Gold Medal. 
Despite his many commitments, "Father Ted" can often be seen around campus. He sometimes makes guest appearances in class­rooms and presides over dorm liturgies. He still works in his office on the 13th floor ofthe Hesburgh Library, but, contrary to popular belief, he does not live there -Hesburgh makes his home in Corby Hall. 
KEVIN WHITE: Entering his second year as athletic director, Kevin White continues to 
BOB DAVIE: Bob Davie is entering his· fifth year as head coach for the Irish, and he has recently signed a contract with the uni~ versity guaranteeing him five more years. After finishing one of the worst football seasons in more than 20 years -1999's 5­7 showing -Davie rebuilt his team for the 2000 season. Things started out roughly for him this season, when quarterback Arnaz Battle broke his wrist in the Nebraska game, which the Irish lost in overtime. Freshman Matt Lo Vecchio took over after a brief stint by tight end Gary Godsey and proved his mettle against such schools as Purdue, Stanford and Boston College. Davie even­tually took his team to the Fiesta Bowl, where Irish fans witnessed an embarrassing 41-9 loss to Oregon State University. Despite this finish, he was one of three finalists for the Football News Coach ofthe Year Award. 
Press's top-IO poll. 
McGraw graduated from St.Joseph's Col­lege in Pennsylvania in 1977. In 1982, she was appointed head coach at Lehigh Univer­sity, where she led the school's program out of the shadows. Seven years later, after two seasons with the Irish, she was inducted into the Big Five Women's Hall ofFame in Phila­delphia, and, this year she received the Asso­ciated Press Coach of the Year Award. 
MIKE BREY:AfterMattDohertylefthis position as head coach of the Irish men's basketball team in early 2000, Athletic Di­rector Kevin White set his sights on Mike Brey, then-head coach at the University of Delaware. 
Joining the Irish in July 2000, Brey made his excitement about coaching at Notre Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've only 


>> POORMAN >> McGRAW (right) >> SCULLY >> DAVIE 
pursue his primary goal to rehabilitate Notre Dame's legendary football program. 
He worked as Arizona State University's athletic director for four years b~fore com­ing to Notre Dame. While at ASU, White reorganized academic and student services for athletes, strengthened the athletic-de­partment staff, hired five head coaches and reformed the athletic budget. He has also served on several NCAA committees, as the executive committee of the Division I-A Athletic Directors Association, and as chair­man on the Pacific-IO Conference's televi­sion and bowl committees. 
In 1997, White received the Alumni Achievement Award at Saint Joseph's Col­lege, where he studied as an undergraduate. He then earned a master's degree at Central Michigan University and a doctorate at South­ern Illinois University. He has also done post­graduate work at Harvard University's Insti­tute for Educational Management. 
Davie continues to receive criticism from students despite his recent successes. His goal for 2000 was to have a vastly improved defense while maintaining the "explosive offense." Unfortunately, as the 2001 Blue­Gold Game ( defense vs. offense) has proved, only the first goal has been met: The defense won 74-40. 
MUFFET MCGRAW: McGraw has be­come a living legend on Notre Dame's cam­pus ever since she led the Irish women's basketball team to the NCAA Champion­ship in St. Louis this spring. While she has been head coach of the Irish since 1987, her first Final Four appearance was not until 1997. But between 1997 and 2000, her team posted an admirable 106-26 record, spend­ing most of its weeks in the Associated been to South Bend twice before today, road games when I was at Duke University," he said. "[I] left on the bus ... and drove offthis campus many times, [thinking] 'I wonder if I could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here." 
Brey's first season with the Irish has been impressive. The team had an eight­game winning streak, defeating such oppo­nents as Syracuse, Georgetown and St. John's. Under the leadership of Troy Murphy, the Irish reached the NCAA tournament, losing in the second round to Mississippi. 
With Murphy gone next season, Brey faces a tough challenge iri bringing the Irish back to the tournament once again. . 




Suitcases can only fit so niuch. We'll tell you what's worth the space 
Decisions: You've been plagued with them during the past months. Probably the last thing you want to do is decide what to bring with you to Notre Dame. It is tempting to bring all of your earthly possessions to college, but dorm rooms are quite small, and you must realize that you will be sharing your room with at least one other person. Here are some packing tips and a little common sense to help you prepare to make the great migration from home. 
Furniture: Figuring out how best to arrange furniture in a dorm room requires a magician. Students who do not live in the new or recently renovated dorms -which have modular furniture -often make extra space in their rooms by constructing lofts, or elevated beds that leave open space underneath. Lofts can be a pain to build, but the added space often makes the trouble worthwhile. Loft kits are available at hardware stores like Lowe's, and "loft men" usually roam the campus to help the not-so­handy parent build one for a small fee. However, the uni­versity does regulate loft dimensions, so look into your dorm's rules before construct­ing one. Also, if you live nearby, buying wood at home may be 
(11

' j an advantage as there ',,1 always seems to be a :1 shortage of kits around 
campus. 

All dorm rooms come with beds, desks . j and wardrobes or 
closets, but most students bring extra furniture. Couches, inflatable chairs and futons are popular, since they are more comfortable than sitting on the floor. Carpeting and padding will help you avoid walking on hard, tiled.floors. You should receive the dimensions of your room in a packet from your dorm, which will make carpets easier to price. 
Gadgets and Gizmos: Electronics are an important source of entertainment -and procrastination ..:__ in dorm rooms. It is a good idea to bring a stereo because most students find South Bend radio lacking. A TV and VCR are nice additions to a dorm room, but because cable is not available, antennae, or "rabbit ears," are a wise purchase. All dorms have TV lounges with cable, so you can still catch your favorite cable programs without buying a TV. 
There are numerous computer clusters on campus, some of which are open 24 hours. All clusters have PCs and Macs equipped with Internet access and CD-ROM drives. But during busy times of the year -such as midterms and finals -you might have to wait in line for a terminal, so you may want to bring your own. Every dorm room is wired to the Internet via ResNet, the 


. . I 

JUST LIKE HOME Even if your room looks bare at first, don't worry-a nice . I carpet, posters and extra lights can make even the starkest dorm room look cozy, including this room in Farley Hall. 

16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


campus network. The Office oflnformation TechnQlogies will send you a brochure describing the hardware you need to connect a PC or a Mac to the network. 
Most students bring a refrigerator, which is useful for beverages and late-night snacks. A hot pot is also nice, since it can make everything from hot chocolate on cold winter days to th~ college student's staple food: ramen noodles. Creative chefs can even make macaroni and cheese. Ifyou plan on hot-potting very often, a bowl, mug and utensils are important. Finally, a fan ;is crucial during the first few weeks of school if you live in an older dorm that lacks air conditioning. 
Personal Touches: Decorating can personalize a dorm room and make it inviting. The florescent overhead lights in most rooms are dim and will make the room glow with an eerie greenish light, so pack some lamps. A desk lamp is a must, halogen lamps brighten your room tremendously and Christmas lights provide fun mood lighting. Ifyou want to read in bed, aclip-on light is convenient. You may also want to pick up a dry-erase board for outside your door so your new friends will have a place to leave messages. Posters and pictures, whether of a favorite music group or a Monet print, add character to a room. Picking out these finishing touches with your new roommate is a great way to get to know each other. 
Odds and Ends: Apart from furnishings, there are many miscellaneous items that you will need for dorm living. Since you will have to trek down the hall to take a shower, a robe and a shower caddy are important. Shower shoes or cheap flip-flops are also a wise purchase, since the dorm showers aren't always the cleanest places in the world. 
You will need to bring bedding, as the university provides only a mattress. Some dorms have extra-long beds, so you might want to check with your rector before buying a new sheet set or get the stretchy kind. A laundry bag or basket, a stain stick, laundry detergent and lots of quarters are essential if you plan on doing your own laundry. For the washing-machine challenged, the on­campus St. Michael's Laundry service will pick up laundry each week, wash it and deliver it if you opt for a semester-long contract. St. Michael's also has dry cleaning, tailoring and pressing available to all. 


The unpredictable weather in South Bend makes both winter and summer clothes essential. It will be hot and steamy when you first arrive, but it won't be long before winter's bitter cold sets in. Also, you will want to bring duds suitable for the semi­formal and formal dances dorms have during 
A very good fan A loud alarm clock Shower caddy/shoes Camera Water filter Hot pot 

Leave at home 
Answering machine (we have voice mail) Microwave and toasters Vacuum Pets and carnivorous fish Wastebasket 
the semester. You will also need to bring hangers. Crates and boxes that can be stored under the bed are useful for increasing storage space in your room and can be a good place to stash heavy winter clothes during the very short off-season. An alarm clock -preferably a trusty, loud one :--is necessary to wake you up for those dreaded 8 a.m. tests. 
But don't agonize too much over what to pack. South Bend has plenty of discount stores like Meijer if you forget something. Your friends will probably loan you that obscure tool or reference book on the one occasion you really need it. And, remember, your parents are only a phone call and a care package away. · El 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



uNte rt 
Opening Mass and Picnic for the Academic Year 
Tuesday, Aug. 28@ 5:30pm Mass at the Joyce Center then Picnic at DeBartolo Quad with fireworks! 
I'· i 
r. 
' 
l 
I 
i 
I 
L 
:, 
-----' -----------­
~ 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

r------------------1 
LaFortune Open House 
Sunday, August 26 6:30-8:30pm in LaFortune 

""'-'-4-...::::.L.t Cen fun! 
Prizes and 

Refreshments 
0 0 
Saturday September 1 
Comic in Washing ton Hall! Watch for more info 
THINGS WE'RIE 
ti~~~~~:~o~~~it,~ 
www.nd.edu/-sao 

For irifo on activities, events, , and leadership opportunities Iwww.nd.edu/~sao/ndafter5 _ 
if For info on night and weekend iIevents 
i www.nd.edu/~sao/groups/ ! 
For info on student groups on j
l

, campus : 
I I 
_________________________,
i ••• ·--·----···-· ·-· •. ····-~----·--··---····-·••·-·---.• ·--·······..I 

Everyone knows Notre Dame has a long history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions of its residence halls. 
Read on for a brief introduction to some of the these time­honored events ­from the charitable to the bizarre. 

DAWGS IN THEIR ELEMENT Marching around campus in a tie and boxers isn't normal -unless you're an Alumni resident at the Wake. PHOTO COURTESY OF ALUMNI HALL 
McGlinn: Every spring the Shamrocks host Casino Night to raise money for charity. Every woman invites atleastthree people to gamble the night away with play money that can be redeemed for raffle tickets. Prizes from the raffle have included Notre Dame apparel and gift 
20 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
certificates donated by local res­
O'Neill: This men's dorm is lo­cated next to McGlinn and is the home of the Angry Mob. One of O'Neill' s biggest traditions in its short history is the Mardi Gras 
dance, where just aboutany style of dress goes. The men of O'Neill crown a Mardi Gras king during the week, who presides over the festivities. Keough: Located next to O'Neill, this men's dorm is home to the Kangaroos. In 1998, it began the tradition of the Keough Chariot Race, in which dorms build and race chariots. This will likely be one of the first campus-wide dorm events in the fall. It also hosts the White Wedding, a traditional dance in the spring during which a selected couple is "married." Welsh Family: Home to the Whirlwinds and located next to the Morris Inn, the Welsh women host a ''Family Feud" game show each year in which dorm "families" compete against each other. Welsh is also the home of many Notre Dame athletes, and it has won the interhall football championship two years running. 


Sorin: Built in 1888, it was the first Catholic college dorm to be built with single· rooms and is now the only dorm on campus to have a front porch with a swing. It is named after university founder Rev. Edward Sorin. The home of the Otters is often called Sorin College, as it seceded from the university during protests of the Vietnam War. Every fall, Sorin hosts a talent show for charity featuring the grossness, creativity and all-around amus­ing talents of the Otters. Walsh: In addition to being one of the first dorms built on campus, it was also one of the first dorms to house women 
Breen-Phillips: Just steps from the li­brary, LaFortune Student Center and North Dining Hall, it boasts one of the best locations on campus. In honor of their reputation for being big eaters, the BP ladies host a meal auction every spring to benefit the American Diabetes Asso­ciation, at which meals with football players, Father Hesburgh and popular professors are sold to the highest bid­der. The Babes also have an annual Beach Party in the middle of February -a nice break from South Bend' s freez­ing temperatures. Farley: Located between BP and North Dining Hall, Farley was converted to a women's dorm in 1972 and is now home after the university became co­educational. It is now home to the Wild Women, who host the Walsh Wild Weekend every fall. This weekend features many fun activities for the entire campus, such as a mascot contest. One of 
their most popular events is the Walsh Academy Fall Frolic, an annual dance where residents dress up like Catholic schoolgirls. Lewis: The home of the Chicks, Lewis is located behind the Main Building, right next to the Grotto. The dorm hosts a spirit week every spring called Camp Lewis, which is designed to foster dorm spirit and raise money for a camp for the physically challenged. The week's premiere event is the Lewis Crush. Every Chick sends an anonymous invitation to her crush and hopes that he will show up at the dance. St. Edward's: Built in 1882 near the 
ar Hall 
to the Finest. Perhaps its best­known tradition is Pop Farley Week. Each January, the Fin­est celebrate their dorm's namesake, the Rev. John Farley, in a week of festivi­ties. A hall-decorating com­petition between the sections 
is followed by a dorm-wide dance. The ladies also host a cookout each spring on the last day of classes. Cavanaugh: Cavanaugh, home of the Chaos, is conveniently located next to LaFortune. Reputed to be one of the more spirited dorms, it has done quite well in the interhall sports arena during the past few years, winning the basketball cham­pionship and making it to the semifinals in football last year. Other notable activi­ties include the Father-Daughter/ Mother-Daughter weekend that the dorm hosts every spring, as well as the Snow­ball, a winter formal. Zahm: Perhaps the dorm with the most infamous reputation, the men of Zahm, Main Building, St. Ed's is the university's oldest dorm. The rooms have very high ceilings, and it is reputed that no two rooms are alike. The St. Ed's Hall Players stage a show each winter, which is followed by a dorm-wide dance. The hall is also stepping up its Founders Day fes­tivities this year with a fun run and dance. Carroll: If you live here, a bike is not an option-it's a necessity. The home ofthe Vermin is located half-way around St. Mary's Lake, but the Office of Student Activities still considers the hall a part of God Quad. Despite its isolated location ~ or maybe because of it -Carroll was voted the 2000-01 Hall of the Year. One of its many traditions is A Carroll Christmas, which includes the lighting of a 30-foot Christmas tree and singing of Christmas carols by university choirs. A toy drive and hall dance complement this event. 
or the Zahmbies, wish to keep their traditions shrouded in mystery. How­ever, there was a petting zoo at their Winter Carnival with a llama .: .. 
Keenan: Keenan is located on the north side of the quad and shares a ,building with Stanford Hall. It was last year's men's interhall football champ. The Keenan Knights host one of the university's best-known traditions, the· Keenan Revue, a presentation of skits that satirizes everything on and around campus. The Revue is prepared through­out the year and performed for three nights in January, with the final perfor­mance followed by a dance. Stanford: The other half ofthe Keenan­Stanford building, its residents were once known as the Studs. They have since adopted the name of their former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, as its mascot. The Griffins host a Dance-a­Thon every fall, and last year Stanford was the overall men's interhall sports champion. 


Siegfried: At home pep rallies, you'll be able to identify Siegfried residents by the Viking-style horns they're wearing, and they claim to be awake the earliest on the first football weekend of the year to serenade the other dorms on campus. Like Knott Hall, Siegfried has been a men's dorm for four years, and each fall the two dorms hold a competition for the Flanner Cup in com-
Alumni: Built in the 1930s, "The Center of the Universe," as its residents like to call it, is located at the intersection of South Quad and God Quad. The mascot ofAlumni is the Dawg, derived from the university's first mascot, the Irish Terrier. The most notable Alumni event is the Wake, during which the Daw gs run around campus in ties and boxers carrying a coffin. The week culminates in a dorm-wide dance. Dillon: As this hall was also built in the 1930s, Alumni and Dillon have been rivals 

~ for quite some time. Dillon is known as the Big Red, primarily because it is the largest dorm on campus. Dillon hosts an annual pep rally on South Quad before the first football game of the season. Generally, the pep rally includes an elaborate and amusing skit based on a movie. Past themes have been Back to the Future and Billy Madison. The pep rally culminates with a visit from Bob Davie. 
memoration of their roots in the now-administrative Flanner Hall. Knott: The men of Knott, also known as the Juggernauts, have developed an athletic reputation in their short history: They were champions of both interhall foot­ball and soccer in 1999. Ifyou go 
there on study days you may just be lucky enough to experience Mean Chili Night, when Knott's rector, Brother Jerome, makes chili for the entire dorm. Knott also brought "Knott on the Knoll" to campus this past spring, complete with bands and barbecue. Pasquerilla West: This women's dorm, home to the Purple Weasels, is most often referred to as PW. In 1991, the tradition of a 
Fisher: Distinguished by the large green "F" on the front of the building, Fisher was the home of Regis Philbin when he was a student. The men of Fisher, known as the Green Wave, host the annual Fisher Regatta. A tra­dition since 1987, the Regatta 
features a race across St. Mary's Lake in boats built by students. May the most sea­worthy win! Pangborn: Pangborn is a women's dorm located between the Rock and Fisher Hall. Although it is now home to the female Phoxes, Norm from "Cheers" resided here when it was still a men's dorm. Every year Pangborn and Fisher host the Spring Fling dance, which is held in the courtyard be­tween the two dorms. Pangborn also hosts the annual Phox Fire, a bonfire by the lakes. Lyons: Built in 1927, this dorm pos­sesses the arch made famous by the movie Rudy. It is located next to the Rock on South Quad. Each fall, Lyons sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run. This event raises funds for a scholarship founded in the memory of Mara Fox, a Lyons resident who was killed by a drunk driver in 1993. The dorm also hosts a campus-wide vol-Queen ofPWwas begun. Each section chooses a queen to defend the honor of her section in competitions against Queens from other sections. A talent show is held, at which the Weasels make up new lyrics to popular songs. The victor is then crowned at the hall-wide dance at the end of Queen Week. Pasquerilla East: Also a women's dorm, PE is home to the Pyros and is perhaps the closest dorm to the outside world (i.e. the parking lot). It also hosts the annual Pyro Olympics, where the ladies ofPE run around in costumes dressed according to their section's theme. The Pyros also sponsor the traditionally sold-out PE musical. Past performances have included Guys andDolls, Grease and Godspell. 
leyball tournament, which is capped off by the Luau Fall Dance. Morrissey: The Manor has a tradition of celebrating Christmas season with an SYR on the last Saturday before study days. Each section is responsible for decorating its hall­ways to correspond with a dorm-wide theme. After parfotals, the men of Morrissey invite their dates to their lounge and treat them to sub sandwiches and Rector Father Bill's homemade chili. What better way to ensure the non-violation of parietals? Howard: The women of Howard, or the Ducks, may be few in number, but they make sure they have plenty of fun. Their annual dance, the Howard Ho-Down, draws campus-wide attention, and the double arches at the dorm's entrance are a campus landmark. The dorm's close-knit commu­nity is involved in a variety ofservice projects in South Bend. The Ducks also appeared in 
the women's. interhall football finals last 
year. Badin: As one of the oldest dorms on campus, Badin, home of the Bullfrogs, 
became a women's residence hall in 1972. Last spring, the Bullfrogs hosted a South Quad karaoke fest with refreshments. It boasts a convenient location next to the brand new Coleman-Morse Center. D 



Perfect Strangers 
Getting along with an assigned roommate is a unique aspect ofthe freshman experience 
ALLISONFASHEK 
Never before has a computer held so much control over your life. The computer that randomly assigns roommates for Notre Dame fres]Jmen may provide you a year of happiness or disap­pointment. There will be few times in your life when you will be forced to live with a total stranger. This is one of them. But it's not as scary as it sounds. There are typically three categories un­der which roommate relationships tend to fall, ranging from "we're inseparable" to "computer malfunction." You sµould view getting to know your roommate as an opportunity to share your everyday expe­riences with someone -an important part of the college adventure. Whichever situation you find yourself in, remember that it's up to you to make the best of it. 
You Complete Me 
This category is for those students who find a long-lost brother or sister in their roommate. Upon meeting, the two find they have everything in common, includ­ing a love for country music and racquet­ball. While unpacking, they discover they own matching lava lamps. Even their bedsdpreads coordinate. They will go to every meal and party together, walking around as if they were attached at the hip, laughing at the same stupid jokes. They will rarely fight, even during the weeks of midterms, finals and room picks, and they will probably become godparents for each others' children. If you find yourself in this category, you are somewhat rare, but also extremely lucky. But if it doesn't happen this way for you, don't fret. Un­doubtedly, you will still find this type of friendship with someone on campus ­just not with your roomie. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This is probably the most common cat­egory for roommate situations. So you're not best friends with your roommate-no one said you had to be. You still get along. You hang out on the weekends sometimes and.you have fun spending time with each other. But you have more fun hanging out down the hall or downstairs with another group of people. 
Having a best friend who lives down the hall -or even in another dorm -can be a major asset. Sometimes it's impor­tant to get out of the room for a little while, whether for a change of scenery or even for a temporary refuge. As you start class and become involved in other activities, you will find people on your own with whom you will enjoy spending time. At the same time, you will have a good friend in your roommate, and have the op­portunity to get to know his or her friends as well. This is a great way to meet a diverse group of people. 

It Wasn'fMeant To Be 

Some people just weren't meant to live together. This is another rare situation, but it does happen. Certain roommates do not get along. This is no reason to panic or call home in tears. You can have a great freshman year no matter with whom you live. A roommate is someone to· share living arrangements with -anything more or less is up to you. Also, this situation should encourage you to be more outgoing and to meet more people in your dorm, your classes and your extracurricular activities. 
Whether you are best friends or just acquaintances with your roommate, the keys to the survival of the relationship lie in communication, compromise and re­spect. It's always better to try to talk to your roommate about a problem before it grows out of proportion. He or she may have no idea that the problem even exists. 
The bottom line is that roommate as­signments are totally random -just the luck of the draw. Worrying about your future roommate is about as futile as wor­rying about the weather. When you walk into your room for the very first time and set eyes on your new roommate, keep in mind that he or she has the same worry about getting along with you. 
What happens next is up to you. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 

YOUR 1 


GUIDE TO CLUBBING AT NOTRE DAME 
BY JACKYLN KIEFER 
Afraid you'll be bored in college? Never fear: ND has something for 
everyone! In high school you were captain of the basketball team, presi-. dent of student council, a member of the-8panish Club, a volunteer at the local hospital and a lifeguard at the pool. Well, maybe you didn't do 'all those things, butnow you're here, and you begin to wonderwhat you are · going to do with your time besides · study. Scholastic enlisted the help of the Club Coordination Council to get a sampling of clubs on campus. Here's a look at the results. 
)> 
0 
OJ 
Q. (D 
3 
o· 
m 
g. 
:::J 
o· 
:ri 
co· ~ 
6" 
C 
en 
Ro 
(J) 
-0 
(D 0 
1[ 
:::J
·<D,
., . 
(D 
~ 
(J) 
0 
0 


ATHL ETI c! 
Y
-ou don't have to be a 
varsity athlete to 
participate in sports at 
Notre Dame. Dorms offer 
a wide variety of interhall 
sports each year, but Notre 
Dame's club sports might 
provide a better option for 
the more adventurous 
types. 

The Ultimate Frisbee 
Club combines the skills 
of soccer, football and 
basketball with Frisbee 
tossing. Ev.ery year, the 
team competes in tourna­
ments across the country. 
Last year, the team 
finished second in the 
Great Lakes Open and 
went on to the national 
tournament. 
The men's club volley­
ball team at Notre Dame 
is a competitive team that 
trains and competes on an 
intercollegiate level. The 
team finishes its season 
with the NIRSA Club 
Volleyball Nationals. 
The field hockey te~m 
was started two years ago. 
It offers both men and 
women of all skill levels a . chance to participate. The __ 
team practices four days a ­
week in the spring and fall 
and competes against other 
club teams in the area. 
If you're the type who 
can't stand the flat plains 
of northern Indiana, the 
Climbing Club might be 
the answer to your prayers. 
The club trains members in safe climbing techniques and puts them into action on trips to Grand Ledge, Mich. and the Red River Gorge, Ky. 
If you are a horse-lover, Notre Dame has several equestrian clubs. The Equestrian Team takes weekly lessons at stables located about 15 minutes from campus. Riders of all levels are welcome to join, and do not need to own a horse.The team partici­pates in competitions sponsored by the Intercol­legiate Horse Show Association throughout the year. If steer wrestling, goat-tying, and bareback bronco-and bull-riding are more your style, you might wa.rit to check out the Rodeo Club. Students formed the club to educate others about rodeo, giving them the opportunity to work towards competing in a particular event. 
If animals aren't your thing, there are other options. The Judo Club teaches students take­downs, ground-control techniques and submission maneuvers for those seeking self-defense skills, competitive experience or just a good, hard workout. The Figure Skating Club also offers a unique opportunity to students of all l,evels of skating experience. The club has both individual skating and synchronized skating, which was ranked eighth in the nation last year. 
...
I 

A._C~A_D_cE'-.MJ __CJAcademic clubs offer a wide range of activities in fields ranging from anthropology to engineering. The Joint Engineering Council represents 

24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
College of Engineering students and organizes events like Industry Day. Em3, another engineering group, works with the '.National Society of Black Engineers, the Mexican-American Engineers and Scientists and the Society of Hispanic Professionals to provide learning and social opportunities for engineering and science majors of historically under-represented back­grounds. 
At a more recreational level, the Notre Dame Society of Automotive Engineers designs and builds a single-seat, off-road vehicle from start to finish. At the end of the year, there is a competition that culminates in a four-hour endurance race. 
Business students also have many opportunities to become involved in academic clubs. Ifyou're interested in traveling abroad, you might want to check out the Student International Business Council. The council has a vision of attaining peace through commerce and provides students the opportunity to intern overseas during the summer in several coun­tries, including Ireland, France and Australia. For those interested in sharp­ening their job skills, the 
Hispanic Business Student Association is part of a larger national organization whose goal is to help students of all ethnicities build· their people, marketing and other business skills. Like playing with money? The Investment Club provides a portfolio of $400,000 for members to manage. Students can share information about invest­ing as they make trades to increase the portfolio's value. 

The Pre-Physical Therapy Club is an academic club that offers support, academic advice and guidance for students who want to attend a graduate physical therapy program. Guest speakers usually include licensed physical therapists, members of admission committees and ND alumni who are currently graduate students enrolled in MPT/DPT programs. 
Many majors also have their own clubs. The Anthropology Club, for example, aims to establish connections between students and faculty within the department. These clubs are generally open to everyone, 'but students within the major are especially encouraged to join. 
E T__ H_... __ N..... C 
while N?tre Da~e is sometimes cntI­cized for its lack of diversity, many clubs do their best to expose students to cultures from all parts of the globe. One of the largest ethnic clubs on campus is La Alianza, which was formed five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates students through programs that include the annual 
Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
The Hawai'i Club, Na Pua Kai Ewalu, is another club open to anyone interested in experiencing the culture of Hawaii through social and educa­tional activities. Each spring, it holds a luau with authentic Hawaiian food, dance and music. 
Other ethnic clubs include the Filipino, Italian, Polish, Spanish, French, Australian and Indian clubs. While the particular programming for each group differs, they promote the language and culture of its country or nationality. Meetings sometimes feature ethnic cuisine prepared by members of the group. 
Perhaps the most interesting ethnic club is the Texas Club, which boasts a membership of 500 Texan students. The club organizes dances, dinners, rides to and from the Lone Star State and an alumni network. 
IHEL_LGJOU S.
The Baptist Collegiate 
Ministry provides students from all denomi­nations a chance to meet and interact with other students who have similar concerns and interests. The group holds weekly Bible-study meetings and arranges transportation to non-Catholic services in the South Bend commu­nity. Campus Fellow­ship of the Holy Spirit, 
is an ecumenical Chris­tian club with weekly meetings, small groups, fun parties and daily meals and prayer. Iron Sharpens Iron is an interdenominational Christian Bible study group committed to 
uniting students in fellowship by studying the life and teachings of Jesus Christ in weekly meetings featuring Bible study, prayer and wor­ship. 
For those seeking to learn more about the Virgin Mary, the Knights of the Immaculata 
promote devotion to her through prayer and reading the works of Saint Louis de Montfort. One of the many musical groups at Notre Dame is the 
Women's Liturgical Choir, which is run through Campus Ministry. The group sings at the 5 
p.m. Vigil Mass on Saturdays, at Vespers in the Basilica and in collaborative events such as Junior Parents Weekend and the opening Masses. The Notre Dame Chorale is the university's premiere concert ensemble. It performs both religious and secular music and tours the United States every year and Europe every three years. The Celebration Choir sings music in a wide variety of styles, including classical, gospel and contemporary Christian. The group sings for Interfaith Night Prayer Services on Wednesdays and for liturgies in Stepan Center immediately following home football games. 
Ifyou are musically inclined but can't sing a note, audition for the 
Notre Dame Handbell Choir, which consists of 15 students ringing four octaves of English handbells. They perfo1m regularly in the Basilica for rotating weekend liturgies as well as other events such as Junior Parents Weekend. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 

a ­
! 
1 
!il!!::: 
en 
0 0 
~


)>

'II-'­
1.:1 -il 
er

\i'. 
:::i 
Ro

,j;!-. . en 
CD. 

.l;i. < 
'•! o· 
Id .· CD 
:IC 
I :•.n1 l!i 
26 

l_~N~T ~--~kii ;] 
Destination ImagiNation, formerly known as Odyssey of the Mind, is a team of students who compete against other colleges in problem-solving contests. The Chess Club meets biweekly to increase interest in chess while providing challenging games for players of all strengths. They also teach chess to younger children in the South Bend community and form a four-member team that travels to competitions. Political groups like the College Republicans and College Democrats seek to educate students on political issues. 
1s+·o: ~c-'.1 ·A, ti
_L_c~t'J___n ___ NJ 
social action and 

service clubs form the largest of the six divisions and provide a forum for students to get involved both globally and locally. 
Taking a global perspec­tive, the East Timor Action Network seeks to educate students about the continu­ing human-rights abuses in East Timor. They hope awareness will promote action in the form of medical, food, educational and reconstruction assis­tance. Closer to home, the 
Women's Resource 

Center, located in LaFor­
tune, has an extensive 

library on women's issues. The center organizes aid 
services to students, 
including rape-support 

groups and eating-disorder counseling. The Students for Environmental Action 
are dedicated to informing 
the Notre Dame community 
about environmental 

concerns and raising a call 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
to action. They organize an Earth Day celebration and a dorm energy-conservation competition. The Notre Dame Forum on Biomedi­cal Ethics is a new social-action club that was formed to lead lectures and discussions in the field of bioethics on a large range of topics, including stem-cell research and Human Genome Project. One of the most vocal groups on campus is the Progressive Student Alliance, which is currently focusing on obtaining economic justice for workers who make ND apparel and for on-campus workers as well. 

For those interested in 
volunteer work, members of Circle K completed more than 7,000 hours of service in the Greater South Bend area this year. The club offers 20 projects covering a wide range of interests and needs, from playing with animals at the Humane Society to working at the Juvenile Justice Center amd gaining hospital experience. This is the club to join if you can't decide what kind of service you want to 'do. 
Other clubs offer more specific service opportuni­ties. A campus chapter of the international Best Buddies organization pairs Notre Dame students with a developmentally disabled adult from the South Bend community to establish a one-on-one friendship. Members of the Special Friends Club, a group similar to Best Buddies, spend time with autistic and developmentally disabled children. SuperSibs is a group of students who have siblings with disabilities 

who mentor and lend a sympathetic ear to children from the South Bend area who also have siblings with 
disabilities. 
Other organizations that reach out to the youth of South Bend include Lunch PACK, a group that listens and plays with children during recess and after school at local elementary schools. In similar fashion, the Big Brother/Big Sister program pairs students with a little brother or sister, giving the former an opportunity to act as a role model and-mentor to the child, and establish a-long­lasting friendship. Children who participate in the program usually come from poorer areas and single-parent households where they are often missing a positive adult influence in their lives. 
Ifyou're interested in teaching opportunities, the 
Special Tutorial and Education Program 
collaborates with .the South Bend Juvenile Justice Center to provide futoring and reading lessons to facility residents throughout the academic year. The Ms. Wizard Day program offers another chance to participate in children's education. The group gives girls in the fourth through sixth grades the chance to visit science, business and math classes at Notre Dame. 
Ifyou are interested in volunteering at a hospital, 
• 
HUGS -Helpful Under­graduate Students -serves the pecliatric ward at Memorial Hospital. Members spend two hours each week visiting patients and helping the nurses. Another health-related organization is the First Aid Services Team. The team serves as the first level of the emergency medical system for events and athletics on campus. Team 
members hold Red Cross certifications in standard first aid and CPR for the professional rescuer. 

For men who want to put their Catholic faith into action, the Knights of Columbus is a religiously oriented service group. On campus, the group main­tains its own building, operates football-game­day steak sales that generate more than $45,000 for charity annually and engages in service activities with the Boys and Girls Club. 
There are also ethnic service opportunities available, especially in 

serving South Bend' s Hispanic population. The Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics works with local community centers and offers a number of opportunities for students to serve as translators and English-language instruc­tors. 
Notre Dame features several organizations that are continuations of high-school service programs, such as ND HOBY and University Young Life. 
ND ROBY provides a forum for ROBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue developing their leadership through social and service activities, while University Young Life trains college students to be Young Life leaders in the local area. . 



WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and-Theatre, (PTT) has 
announced that the annual reception for students inter­
ested in film, television or theatre will be held Wednes­
day, August 29, at 6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. 
Students interested in any aspect of acting, directing, scenery, costuming, lighting, management, or who are . considering film, television and theatre as a major are 
encouraged to attend. 

Notre Dame student films are showcased each year at 
the extremely popular annual film festival. Many PTT 
student films have won awards at national film festivals, 
and a collection of the best Notre Dame films is avail­
able in national distribution. 

PTT has a terrific relationship with area television 
stations, and many students have earned internships in a 
variety of production areas. WNDU, the local NBC 
affiliate, is owned by Notre Dame and provides television 
professionals who teach some N<;>tre Dame classes. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students--majors 
and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety 
of activities is available including: acting, scenic design 
and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage ·management. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. 
This season, PTT will present a mainstage season consisting of five plays and many other acting and direct­ing projects. Mainstage productions will be: 
A Midsummer Night's Dream, How the Other Half Loves, Antigone, Macbeth, and Galileo . 
A Midsummer Night's Dream and Macbeth will be performed by AcmRs FROM THE LONDON-STAGE who will conduct a residencies sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture Series. All PTT projects will need student involve­ment. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays will be held Wednes­day, August 29, and Thursday, August 30, at 7:00 PM. 
PTT activities are an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
Ifyou cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about film, please contact Jill Godmilow at Godmilow.l@nd.edu or Ted Mandell at Mandell. I@nd.edu. Ifyou are interested in theatre please contact Richard E. Donnelly at Donne11y.4@nd.edu. 
Notre Dame 
Glee 
www.nd.edu/~gleeclub ­

got club? 
Can't study all the time, right? (That answer is "no!") The Notre Dame Glee Club will hold auditions for new members immediately following Freshman Orientation weekend, in Crowley Hall of Music. 
We DO: 

• 
Tour throughout the US twice a year, and internationally every two years 

• 
Accept guys who have never sung outside the shower. 

• 
Need new members for every voice part. 

• 
Have an 86-year tradition as one of the nation's finest collegiate male a cappella choruses. 

• 
Sing music ranging from spirituals to 15th century polyphany, from barbershop to traditional Notre Dame tunes in four major concerts and numerous "miniconcerts" each year. 

• 
Fire up crowds of thousands with concerts before each home football game. 

• 
Enjoy great times together as brothers in song 


We DON'T: 

• 
Let girls sing with us (they look funny in tuxes -but we love to see them at our concerts) 

• 
Run the option (well) 


• 
Care whether you want to be a music major or an aerospace_ engineer {we have both) 


For more information visit our Web site, contact Publicity Manager Aaron Trulley (atrulley@nd.edu) or e-mail the club directly at gleeclub@nd.edu. 
; 
Ii 
______ii 
join the FIRST AID SERVICES T E A M Enjoy saving other students from harm with qualifications In CPR and First Aid.  all new ... dtod_  
FAST is looking for a few good volunteers. No experience is necessary. We will show you what you need to know. FAST provides aid at the football and basketball games, the Bookstore Basketball tournament, Bengal Bouts, all interhall sports and most events that come to campus. ©  version 3.0 Bigger, Faster, Stronger • movie listings • picture galleries • new message boards • dining with Molly Kinder • and· much, much, more ...  
BEAPARTOFTHEACTION For more info try www.nd.edu/-fast If interested, contact abarbour@nd.edu FAST Is also looking for a webmaster.  ndtoday.com: More radical than Vatican II  
Are you interested in doing service at Notre Dame? ... or were you involved in Key Club? Join the largest service organization on campus! Notre Dame Circle K Come see us at Activities Night, or contact our president, Bo Rottenborn, at Rottenborn.2@nd.edu. You can also visit our website at www.nd.edu/~circlek  


Welcome to Notre Dame! This is the Gipper writing to you, the Class of 2005, asking for a little bit of help from each of you. You see, the Gipper' s column, Campus Watch, runs in every Scho­lastic. That gives him just two weeks to whip together a compilation ofthe campus's juiciest tidbits. There is enough bizarre be­havior on this campus to fill the entire maga­zine, but the Gipp needs you to tell him about it. So read on and learn how you can help. To begin with, the Gipp does not write an advice column. If you have problems with your roommate, your expanding_ waistline or your shifty Purdue boyfriend, ask Anne Landers. Second, the Gipp is not well-versed in etiquette. He can't tell you whether to hang your toilet paper inside or outside on the spindle, and he doesn't know a summer dress from a funeral shroud. The Gipper doesn't like to answer questions. But the Gipper loves to hear stories. Not just any stories, mind you, but stories that reveal something that, perhaps, wasn' tmeant to be revealed. Or, something that desper­ately needs to be revealed. Nothing is too wild or too strange. You see, dear freshmen, you are the eyes and ears of the Gipp. While the Gipp does his best to have a finger in everybody's pie, it's kind of difficult on a campus of 10,000 students -particularly when there are 2,000 new ones whom he hasn't even met. He can't attend every party where someone lights himself on fire, and he can't be riding shotgun every time some­one overturns a stolen golf cart on I-80. And he wouldn't even want to be around for some of the tips he gets. But, if you do have the good fortune to witness an act of un­bridled hilarity, fire off an e-mail to gipper.l@nd.edu, or give the Gipp a call at 1-7569. Of course, you won't speak to the Gipp personally -he has his identity to protect. But you will speak to a member of Scholastic's friendly staff, who will deliver the tip for you. 
And, while we're speaking about protect­ing identities, allow the Gipp to offer you a couple of guarantees. First: Your anonym­ity will be preserved whenever you tip the Gipp.No matter how outrageous it is or how much scandal it causes, only the Gipper will know who you are. And, since nobody knows who the Gipp is, your secret is safe with him. 
Second, the Gipper does not print trash. He carefully verifies the accuracy and truth of each tip he receives. So, please be sure that what you report actually happened, and, if possible, give the Gipp a suggestion on how to verify the tip. 
Now that we've gotten all the preliminar­ies out of the way, gather 'round and let the Gipp tell you a little bit about this fine university. To begin with, ifyou do not have the good fortune oflanding in an air-condi­tioned dorm, the Gipper feels for you. You see, while the outside air is a reasonable 90 degrees for the first month of school, the dormitories are precisely engineered to hover around 120 degrees. This way, when the temperature plunges into the negatives at the end of September, they maintain their warmth for a few days. Until then, you'll get your best sleep while taking cold showers. (And you'll be taking a lot of those at Notre Dame.) 
Then the sun disappears about mid-Oc­tober. Completely. It sneaks off when ev­erybody is busy writing letters to The Observer about Bob Davie's latest de­bacle and returns towards the end ofApril. As a result of this pattern, tanning salons here start doing very well around Febru­ary-not because people care about their skin tone, but because they like to stare at the flickering UV lights and fantasize about the days that once were back in [your hometown here]. 
· You have probably also heard the word "parietals" floating through Notre Dame conversations. Now, the only reference to the word parietal that the Gipp could find in the dictionary was biological: "Pertaining to or forming the wall of a hollow structure." This is remarkably accurate when applied to the Notre Dame definition. You see, pari­etals are the things (the Gipp' snot sure why they're always plural) that prevent us from mingling with the opposite sex after certain hours each night. Well, you can mingle, but only if you want to stand in the bitter cold or some cheese-smelling 24-hour space. Ac­cording to the student manual, du Lac, the policy is in place "to foster the personal and social development of residence hall stu­dents." By the same token, the university attempts to stimulate your academic growth by throwing your books out the window. 
But despite these minor grievances, Notre Dame is a great place, and nobody believes that more strongly than the Gipper. So, help keep this place honest-and entertained-. by sending in your best tips. . 



1.,;s1,·1ftb'onfu~~d:!abbHtHippid§:,,tffe(Gtpp?ilt}'.\{\i;t:).z.:th.,<L:)Xiffr.tXr
t'.":u~~:~:~'.:~'.~~~~',i~~5.?;'.'~~:'.~::Y~:~:~~:l::~;,_;'.:>:::;,~f::;~:r:~,::~·::::t:>';~::''.'l'.:~:t\:;',;~-~:_:t~::;:~:·:::;}'.';:'.}:f'.:~~:<,~-,~iiL:h 
Your roommate steals cups from the dining hall: Don't tip the Gipp. Your roommate steals tables from the dining hall: Tip the Gipp. Your roommate steals food from the dining hall: Call him a doctor. 
A guy in your calc class reads Road & Track during lectures: Don't tip the Gipp. A guy in your calc class reads Hustler during lectures: Tip the Gipp. A guy in your calc class reads Dirty Primates in Heat during lectures: Don't sit behind him. 
29 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 


t""::J' ~--, 
~000-200~ 


womens basketball baseball football men's basketball women's soccer lacrosse tennis men '.s' soccer 

PHOTOS COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION 

Raising the Ruth 
The 2001 women's basketball team won the school's first national title in six years, beating Purdue 68-66 in the championship game in St. Louis. The team accomplished a number of feats before winning it all, including earning the program's first No. 1 ranking and its second appearance in the Final Four. 
In the semifinal, the Irish dethroned defending national champion Connecticut, avenging a two-point defeat in the Big East Championship game, in which Sue Bird sank an off-balance, buzzer-beating jumper. 
The win advanced Notre Dame to the final against Purdue, where National Player of the Year Ruth Riley's free throws with 5.8 seconds remaining fittingly sealed the Irish win. Riley amassed·28 points, 13 rebounds and seven blocked shots in the game. Riley's efforts, along with those of teammates Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon, were recognized at the WNBA draft. The three seniors were selected in the first three rounds of the draft; Riley was selected No. 5 overall. 
The Irish season was capped by a visit to the White House, where they were honored along with Duke's men's team for winning the national title. 

30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

lZ IThe Fiasco Bowl 
After finishing 5-7 in 1999 and failing to 
earn a bowl appearance for the first time 
since 1986, things could not have looked 
worse entering the 2000 campaign. With Jariou·s Jackson's graduation, the Irish were left with four starting quarterbacks, none of whom had ever started a collegiate football . game. Infact, Arnaz Battle was the only one who had even taken a collegiate snap in his career. Students roamed campus wearing T­
shirts reading "Bob Davie's Farewell Tour 
2000." 
But the Irish didn't break under pressure. 
Facing five consecutive ranked opponents, 
including No. 1 Nebraska, the Irish opened 
with a respectable 3-2 record. From there, 
freshman quarterback Matt Lo Vecchio led 
Notre Dame to six more victories, a top-10 
ranking and an appearance in the Fiesta 
Bowl, one of the four BCS bowls. ' 
Unfortunately, theJanuary 1football game 

against Oregon State did not go well for the . 
Irish. Appearing unprepared for the contest 
at times, Notre Dame's defense struggled to 
protect the freshman quarterback, allowing 
him to be sacked six times. Meanwhile, the 
offense amassed only nine points in an 
embarrassing 41-9 defeat. Nevertheless, the 
Irish finished with a9-3 record, tying for the 
best single-season winning percentage under 
the Davie regime. For his efforts, Davie was 
awarded a new five-year contract. 
I3 IMurphy's Law No More 
Having led the Irish to their first NCAA 
appearance since 1990 and first-everregular­
season conference title, Jimiorforward Troy 
Murphy brought his collegiate career to an 
end, opting to declare himself eligible for 
the NBA draft. Murphy became the first 
Irish basketball player since 1976 to leave 
school early for the NBA. 
Murphy led the Irish in scoring and 
rebounding in each of his three seasons at 
Notre Dame, earning Big East Rookie ofthe 
Year honors as a freshman and Big East 
Player of the Year honors as a sophomore 
and junior. Chris Mullen (St. John's), Patrick Ewing (Georgetown) and Richard Hamilton (Connecticut) are the only other players to earn the honor twice. Many of Murphy's career numbers rank high on Notre Dame's all-time lists. He finished second in blocked shots (126), free throws made (587) and free throws attempted (755), and he is fifth in scoring (2,011). 
14 IBack in the Dance 
Led by All-American Murphy and junior transfer Ryan Humphrey, the Irish basketball team advanced to the NCAA Tournament for the first time in 11 years. After first-year Head Coach Matt Doherty left Notre Dame to helm hisalmamater,NorthCarolina, thelrishhired Delaware'sMikeBrey. Under Brey, the Irish, who were ranked as high as No. 10 in the AP poll, finished 20-10 and won the Big East West Division regular-season title. After an early exit in the Big East Tournament, the Irish earned a No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament In thefirstround, the Irish breezed past No. 11 Xavier 83-71. However, Notre Dame's season came to a screeching halt in the second round against No. 3 Mississippi. Five-foot-five guard Jason Harrison's three­pointer with 46 seconds left lifted the Rebels to a 59-56 win over the Irish. Notre Dame returns three of its five starters next year, losing Martin Ingelsby to graduation and Murphy to the NBA draft. 
IS IKings of the 
Diamond 
Founded as a varsity sport in 1892, baseball is one ofNotre Dame's oldest programs. Yet it took the Irish 107 years to earn a No. 1 ranking in the sport. Fueled by a nation­leading 16-game win streak, the Irish earned the top spot in a major national poll on April 23 for the first time in the program's history. The Irish also won more than40 games for the second consecutive year. Armed with arguably the best two-man pitching tandem in college baseball, right-handers Aaron Heilman and Danny Tamayo, Notre Dame looks to qualify for the College World Series for the first time since 1957. 


BIG MAN ON CAMPUS With the help of junior Ryan Humphrey, the Irish clinched the Big East West Division trophy for the first time ever on February 24th with a win over Viriginia Tech. 

16 IEarning Some 
Respect 

After finishing last season with a dismal 5­10 record, the women's lacrosse team had nowhere to go but up. After only four years as a varsity sport, women's lacrosse has never received much respect as a major force in Division I athletics. Butthe Irish changed that this year, securing the program's first national ranking of18 on the Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association Poll. The ranking came after an impressive 9-6 victory over No. ?Yale, theprogram'sfirstoveratop­10 opponent. The team went on to post its first 10-win season in school history, finishing the regular season 10-5. 

UP AND RUNNING The baseball team started its season with a loss to University of New Orleans, but from there the second-ranked Irish won sixth straight and never looked back. "fhe team, led by junior co-captain Andrew Bushey, finished the regular season 45-9-1. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 31 


32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


Interested in WRITING 
DESIGN or PHOTOGRAPHY 
? 
II 

SCHOLaSTIC 
w a n t s y O U 
Come work with us. No high-school journalism experience is required. 
look for the Schalmtic booth at 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON SEPT 04, 2001 
or email us at 

SCHOLAST@ND.EDU. 

is there 


around here? 
A look at on-campus entertainment options 
KARAZUARO 

Nobody ever said it was going to be easy, moving to the drowsy town of South Bend from the city that never sleeps. But once I came to appreciate the stars in place of skyscrapers and nights that inevitably end around 2 a.m., I realized that this place has some potential. Quality entertainment on campus is tricky to pinpoint, but this clip 'n' save guide should make your journey toward fun, safe and easy. 

ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Every Thursday night at Lafortune Student Center, the Student Union Board hosts an open-mike night for student solo musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some Dave Matthews Band and Jewel covers or you just want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this eveµt is free for everyone. If you're interested in being a performer yourself, SUB has open sign-ups each week. SUB CONCERTS 
Nota heck ofalotofbands pass through South Bend, but you can count on SUB to line up a show on campus every now and then. Recent performers have included Ani DiFranco, Ben Folds Five, Third Eye Blind, Stroke 9, Vertical Horizon and, this year, Guster and G. Love.and Special Sauce. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ F'EsTIVAL 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Branford Marsalis, who made an ap­pearance at the festival a few years back. 
NAZZ 

No one seems quite ~ure what the name means or where it came from, but this SUB-sponsored Battle of the Bands takes places every spring at Senior Bar. The contest features both solo guitarist and group competitions. Crowd appeal is one judging criteria, so fans and friends pack the on-campus barfor the event. 
WVFI 

The Voice ofthe Fighting Irish, WVFI, can be accessed from the Internet at wvfi.nd.edu. The station features a wide range of music, from indie to oldies to mainstream. 
WSND 

Coming to you straight from the radio tower in O'Shaughnessy Hall, WSND, at 88.9 FM, plays classical music by day and varied student programming by night. 
ROCK ON Adam Gardner of Guster is pictured here before his band's recent campus performance. 
34 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


. . . ::. , . , ·_ ,
D I v '
¦ • 1.·.. ­

If all entertainment options fail, you're go ing to have do it yourself. Though this list may seem extensive, nobody is trying to con­vince you that you aren't going to hit a few gray and dismal Saturday evenings here in South Bend. But you'll soon find out that Notre Dame isn't so much about the things you do as it is about the people you meet. When your calendar is empty and the snow is piled up outside, there's nothing like an 
: -. . -­

impromptu dorm-room luau or something as simple as hot chocolate and videos with your new friends. Freshman year can be the best oftimes or the worst oftimes, but a little creativity can help to make it as entertain­ing as possible. It can save a lot of money, too. 
And of course, if you' re still not satisfied with any of these options, you can always apply for ajob at Scholastic. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 35 

l
I 

Finding a Voice 
Notre Dame offers a wide variety oftheatrical opportunities to aspiring actors 
· CARRIESWEENEY
"I

t's really defined my Notre Dame experience. As silly as this 
may sound, it's changed my life," says sophomore Kat 
Walsh, who has been involved.in the theater since her freshman 
year and who considers it "an especially amazing experience." 
Part of the appeal of ND theatrics for many is that all interested 
students have a chance to participate in some aspect ofa production ­
from acting to set design to choreography. "We have such incredible 
talents here, both students and faculty, butthere's no attitude," Walsh 
says. 

The Department of Film, Television, and Theater sponsors four 
"Mainstage productions," which are performed in Washington Hall. 
"It's going _to be a terrific season, and we're looking for all kinds of 
people to act and work behind the stages," says Tom Barkes, an FTT 
professor, ofnext year's schedule. Heespecially encourages freshmen 
to audition, as this year, three first-year students were cast in leading 
roles in the Mainstage plays. < 

There are also many alternatives to the four main plays. The 
Pasquerilla East Music Company, a student-run group, performs a 
musical each year. Although the group's name might suggest other­
wise, you don't have to live in PE to participate. This year's musical, 
GuysandDolls, was performed in February to three sold-out audiences 
in Washington Hall, and next February will bring Damn Yankees to 
campus. 

The Farley Players and St. Edward's Hall Players are two more 
dorm-based companies that produce a show each year. Farley spon­
sored this spring's ChanceAtLove, a student-written play, and St. Ed's 
produced I Hate Hamlet, a parody of the Shakespeare play. 
But for those of you who don't hate Hamlet, the department also 
features several traditional Shakespearean groups and performances. 
In fact, if English pro­fessor PaulRathbumand the other organizers of the first annual Summer Shakespeare Festival have their way, people will soon envision im­ages of the Bard along with the Dome when they imagine Notre Dame. Rathburn first conceived of Notre 

: MAINSTAGE· SCHEDULE How the Other Half Loves 
and performers tocampusandtonameaShakespeare 
Antigone November 
chair funded by a recent donation by alumnus John 
Macbeth February 
P. McMeel.
Galileo April 
For those who would rather watch others step into · ACTORS FROM THE LONDON STAGE the spotlight, "Actors from the London Stage" -a A Midsummer Night's Dream September production company featuring members from the 
Dame's Shakespeare summer program over a decade ago, while teaching a Shakespeare class at the university's London program. The class strove to emphasize both the literary and theatrical aspects ofthe plays. Rathbum was inspired to offer a similar class during the summer at Notre Dame, which would culminate in a production of a Shakespearean play in which students would have the opportunity to work side-by-side with professional actors. Supported by the entire College of Arts and Letters, but particularly by the English and FTT departments, the dream of a summer festival soon became a reality. · For six weeks during lastJuly and August, students who successfully 
MOTHER DEAR This modernized version of Oedipus Rex played this past spring in Washington Hall. 
auditioned for spots in the six-credit course read Shakespeare before 
lunch and brought his plays to life on the stage in the afternoon. Nine 
professional actors, who were selected through auditions in Chicago, 
joined the seven students halfway through the session, and together 
they produced The Taming ofthe Shrew. This summer, the festival's 
cast will present Much Ado About Nothing. 
The festival is just one part of the Shakespeare Initiative -a campus-wide effort to assure , Shakespeare a permanent place at Notre Dame. The program also aims to bring regular guest lecturers 
October 

Royal Shakespearean Company, among other major 
English theaters -is now based at Notre Dame. Although professionals do all the acting, students are selected to work behind the stage for each production. These actors begin their tour on campus at Washington Hall, and some of the troupe's recent perfor­mances include All's Well That Ends Well and As You Like It. 
So, if you've been bitten by the acting bug, or ifjust want to get involved, you might want to give Notre Dame theater a try. But don'tsweatitifyou aren't cast as the leadyourfir~tyear. As Walsh says, "It can be tough breaking into things your first year, but ifyou keep trying out and exploring new avenues, you'll learn and grow 
so much."  .  
.  
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT  37  

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




p!!Co~~~!P!!~~!~~PliCI~~~~n,ailbox 
ND Off-Campus Undergrads  On E11rollme11t Monday at tlze Stadium Box Office  
ND Law/MBA/Grad  From your college  
Saint Mary's students  From SMC  

Obtain vour lotterv number on Enrollment S pMondav, August 21, 9-5, Stadium Box Office 
Students will beseated by class. Each student may bring up to SIX applications. You MUST have a lottery number in numerical order with your group in order to sit with them. 
The starting lott~ry number will be drawn at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, August 27 at Stepan Center. 'E-mail andphone announcements will be made following the lottery ofthe number. The sequence number can also befoundwww.nd.edu/~sao after 9:00 p.m. To reflect the smaller class size, Law/MBA/Grad students will have a separate number. 

Purchase vour season tickets at the Stadium Box Office 
Guidelines for Undergrad Ticket Distribution Schedule:
P

Ifyour number is within: 
* 
400 ofthe selected number, show up at start time 

* 
400-800 ofthe selected lottery number, show up 20 minutes past start time 

* 
800-1200 ofthe selected lottery number, show up 40 minutes past start time 

* 
1200-1600 of the selected lottery number, show up 1 hour past start time 

* 
1600-2000 ofthe selected lottery number, show up 90 minutes past start time 

* 
Ifyou have no seating preference or no lottery number, show up 3 hours after start time 


Check calendar below for stanUmes bJ class 
Bring Ticket Applications and I.D.s. Cash or checks only. Checks must have the student's phone number on them! Each student may bring up to six I.D.s. 
_monda tuesday · wednesday thursday 
9:00-5:00 Lottery  8:00am SENIOR start  7:00am JUNIOR start  ·  ·1:00am SOPHOMORE  
sequence numbers  time for ticket purchases  time for ticket purchases  starttime for ticket  
available at Stadium Box  at Stadium Box Office.  at Stadium Box Office.  purchases at Stadium Box  
Office. You MUSThave ti.  Office.  
lottery sequence 1,umher  2:00pm Law/MBA/Grad  
ill numerical order wit!,  start time for ticket  2:00pm FRESHMAN  
your group to be able to  purchases at Stadium Box  start time for ticket  
sit wit/1 tli{!m. ie. Ifyou  Office.  purchases at Stadium Box  
plan to sit with 10 friends,  Office.  
you must have I 0  
sequential lottery numbers.  
8:00pm Lottery number  
drawn. Email and phone  
announcements will be  
made to notify students.  


Notre Dame: A Visitor's Guide 
A cynical tour ofa few campus "hot spots" 
JEFFEYERMAN 
-strollingabout the thriving metropo­
lis of South Bend, two questions 
must immediately leap to mind: Is ethanol harmful ifinhaled? And, if so: Will Julia Roberts win a case against the evil ethanol company armed with nothing more than low-cut blouses and a heart full of spunk? 
Toxic inhalants aside, the casual observer might be shocked to learn that a bustling university exists in South Bend almost en­tirely unbeknownst to the outside world. Though I originally stopped here last year simply to fill up on gas (and possibly find a decent chicken 'n' waffle shack), I soon discovered that what I thought was the lid to the world's most religious ICBM silo was in fact the roof of what South Bend resi­dents colloquially call the "Dome." 
Snite is merely a repository for sub-par artwork from no-name artists. This is pa­tently untrue. The Snite has many fine works of art -if you know where to look! I, unfortunately, did not, and thus spent the majority ofmy time learning about the ancient ball game ofthe Mayas. Also, they will not let you take any artwork into the restroom with you, no matter how much you have to go. 
Hammes Bookstore: While they do not sell ham of any kind in this fine establish­ment, they do sell all sorts of apparel and Notre Dame bric-a-brac, so it isn't a total loss. You will be the envy ofall your friends when you get the official Notre Dame tongue scraper, bowling shoes and washer fluid. Slip the clerks a buck or two, and they're likely to show you where you can find a Notre Dame varsity jacket-justlike Rudy wore! Put it on and imagine sneaking into the stadium late at night, reciting coach Rockne's pep talk and generally acting su­perior to everyone who asks you for an autograph when you're back on campus. After that, you can have a cafe mocha ­with flavoring! 
Reeker's: The only 24-hour restaurant on campus is the local "hot spot" (as they so quaintly say in the Midwest). I waited 57 minutes for a smoothie and drank it with bitterest gall among couches and chairs that were apparently passed over at a Dresden fire sale. 
Health Services: Contrary to popular Notre Dame Health Services lore, a shot of Pepto Bismol and some saltines will not cure a black eye, three broken ribs and a punctured lung. 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­
ter: The Joyce Center (or the "JACC" to those in the know) consists of two large domes. Said domes 

While I certainly had not 
reminded my friend Big planned on remaining Scotty ofbreasts, upon which longer than a few hours, he commented with hilarious there was a simplicity to results. We spent a full 15 the charming tribespeople minutes discussing the hu­of this campus that I found morous situations that would captivating. What follows arise were the Joyce domes is a detailed anthropologi­were in fact breasts. cal study ofthe Notre Dame Notre Dame Stadium: Ah, student-and by "detailed the smell ofthe turf, the roar of anthropological study," I the crowd, the thrill of watch­mean stumbling essay writ­ing a Domer streak past the ten under the influence of defensive lineman to get the Paxil, teriyaki beef jerky ball within field-goal range. A and Rose McGowan mov­day at the old ball stadium is an ies. event not to be missed on cam­
Snite Museum of Art: pus. Nothing can match the First of all, I would like to thrill of standing arm-in-arm clarify a very important rule withatotalstrangerwhofirmly 
_of etiquette for this excel­believes the words to the Alma lent museum. Even though Mater are "Notre Dame, our the box says_ "Suggested mother ... dadeedeedadum ... donation; admission free," da dee da da da da ... love thee, it is not considered kosher Notre Dame!" to point and laugh a:t the So, what are you waiting front-desk lady while say­for? Check it out. As the ing "So long, chump -Bard himself might have I'mgettinginfi·ee!" Know­said, had he any interest in ing this will save both football or Catholicism, "If money and hurt feelings. you be not of the house of As for the art itself, it has liberals, come and crush a been said by many that the cup of wine!" D 
SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 39 
by Mike Brey

Rookie Year 
made a point to blow up the NCAA Tournament bracket to hang in my office and in the locker room. Even my note pads had the 2001 NCAA Tournament bracket on them. I was amazed that our program had not been in the NCAA Tournament in 11 years. 
We started the season in November with a big win against Cincinnati, and it was clear that this group had the chance to become special. December was an interesting month on a personal level as I got my first experience of "lake-effect" snow -44 inches in the month of December! We moved into our new house right before Christmas. 
As we entered league play in January, the team experienced both highs and lows. I think back to the Georgetown game _in Washington, D.C. when we played the last four minutes without Troy Murphy­and won. That was a real confidence-builder for us, and I think we finally felt we were for real. We continued our momentum into February and clinched the Big East West Division Championship with a win over Virginia Tech. I was really proud of this group: They were the first team in the history of this .basketball program to hang a league-champi­onship banner from the rafters ofthe Joyce Center. Throughout our winning streak in February, our student section was very inspiring. They became so alive at our home games, and the Joyce Center became a very difficult place for visiting teams to play. 
There is no question that the most special day of this past year for me was Selection Sunday. To see Notre Dame flash up as the No. 6 seed in the Midwest bracket was exciting. We had achieved our goal! We flew to Kansas City and won against a very good Xavier team. It was great to see the faces ofour guys, knowing that we had advanced in the NCAA Tourna­ment. Next we faced Mississippi, and, unfortunately, our group experienced how _guickly the season can end when you are in the tournament. 
We had a great season, though. We won a regular­season championship, earned an NCAA tournament bid, finished in the top 25 in the polls and continued the momentum of getting our program back on the college-basketball map. And, now that I am done with my exams, I have the chance to enjoy my new surroundings. My team made it to the third round of the Bookstore Basketball tournament, and I have spent some time as a spectator at some of our spring sporting events. 
I am honored to be the men's basketball coach at Notre Dame and apart of this specia:I family, and am already looking forward to my sophomore year! . 
lj 
I made a point to blow up the NCAA Tournament bracket to hang in my office and in the locker room. Even my note pads had the 2001 NCAATour­nament bracket on them. 
Mike Brey is entering his second year as the head coach ofthe Notre Dame men's basketball team. He previously coached at the University of Delaware. 

All I know is my freshman year at Notre Dame absolutely flew by. Of course, I did not get my letter ofacceptance to this fine institution untilJuly 14, whenlwasofferedthemen'sbasketball head coaching position here. I am a product ofCatho­lic education, and I always thought that I would be a greatfitatNotreDame. Itwas certainly a dream come true to become a part of the great tradition of Notre Dame athletics. My first matter ofbusiness in July was to meet the returning team. I was their third coach in three years, and, for many of them, there was a lot of anxiety. There was also recruiting to be done, out on the road and here on campus. My best freshman moment came when a recruit's parent asked me where the bookstore was -I had no idea! On top of all that, my family needed to make the transition from Newark, Del. to South Bend in a month. We were able to sell our house quickly, and we got out here in early August. 
My kids, Kyle and Callie, started school, and we began a new life and a new challenge here at Notre Dame. By the end of August, our players were back on campus, and we got into our pre­season conditioning rou­tine. 
Then, ofcourse, there 

was the first home foot­ball game. I can remember telling my wife, Tish, the night before the Texas A&M game, that I did not think anything could live up to the hype and the talk that I had heard about this experience. By the time I got back to our temporary house that Saturday evening, thoroughly exhausted, I turned to her and said, "OK, that was even better than they said!" 
Throughout September and October, I was able to get around to a lot of dorms to meet the students who were to play such an important part in our student section this season. I learned a lot about Notre Dame from them and started to find my way around campus much better -I even know where the bookstore is now! Also, like most freshmen at Notre Dame, I started to get out in the community to speak with local charities and service organizations. 
I was excited about October 15, when I could first get our team together in the gym and start to chase some of the team goals that the leadership had set. Before I had even arrived, this team was extremely focused on getting back to the NCAA Tournament. I 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



Quality Quality COPIES COPIES .
LaFortune Student Center 
Quality Quality
University of Notre Dame
COPIES COPIES 
Phone (219) 631-COPY • Fax (219) 631-FAX1 
Quality www.CopyShopND.com Quality 
COPIES COPIES 
Quality 
Quality .
WELCOME CLASS F2005!COPIES COPIES 
Quality The Copy Shop on the lower level of the Quality 
COPIES COPIES
LaFortune Student Center is Notre Dame's 
student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a
Quality Quality 
COPIES COPIES
wide selection of products and services. 
Quality Quality 
COPIES COPIES
High Speed Copies .,, Color Copies/Printing 
Quality Fax Service 4" Binding "" Resumes Quality · 
COPIES COPIES 
Desktop Publishing .P. ~ourse Packets 
Quality · Quality 
COPIES COPIES
Printing ff, Thesis & Dissertation Copying 
Quality Quality
Overhead Transparencies 4ft School Supplies
COPIES· COPIES ·, 
Laminating ., Car~onless Forms ft Diskettes 
Quality Quality ·' COPIES · COPIES
And a Whole Lot More! 
Quality Quality COPIES COPIES .
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE &WEEKENDS 
. 

Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality 
COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES. COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES 







