THE NOTRE DAM E
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	OCTOBER 1, 1943	NO. 12
9m 9M41&:
• Engineers Dance Tonight
O N. R. O. T. C. Bali
9 U. S. O. Show Here
•	V-J2 Dance Coming
•	Irish vs. Ga. Tech Tomorrow
TOMORROW ALL PATHS LEAD TO THE STADIUM
£ THE MODERN GILBERT’S
Customized
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS UNIFORMS
$60and up
TAILORED to highest standards and individualized by the Modern Gilbert’s expert fitting, Hickey-Freeman uniforms assure naval officers long, hard wear and complete ease and comfort. In buying your uniform here you have the advantage of a fine store’s taste and exacting quality standards.
DOBBS OFFICERS’ CAPS
In South Bend
TAXI FREE
to Gilbert’s
tns mown GILBERT'S Owl UtUd
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
VsOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
3
p. 3g-	.3^	-3gL J3 g, -3C- -3 g
The Week ^|g	-3g -gg 3g jag 3 g. 3 g ~~3g 3g e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
BY BELL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
FOUNDED 1867
TOP OF THE WEEK:
B for Balls, Beauties, and Bertelli.
BIG NIGHT
Here comes the first football week-end and the Engineers and Ro-Hos will try to outdo each other tonight with more balling than the Tech fans will be doing in the Blarney Room after tomorrow’s game. The slide-rule gents will be reinforced with operators from the other four deaneries; they of the yellow building will be on their own. The Ro’s with dress blues and their drags in formal may top the tweeds and short skirts of the Progress club, but the real test will come Saturday afternoon when the dates must be paraded on equal terms before the cheering thousands in dear old Notre Dame stadium.
We suspect in the end the best girls of all will come from dear old LeMans hall.
Speaking of dancetime, we note those smiling little human bloodhounds, the corsage salesmen, have been treeing ballgoers all week. Four of them cornered a senior near Science Hall but he escaped down the new sewer ditch.
FALL AND FOOTBALL
But we’re not all up in the air over it. The NROTC turned out en masse for the big rally last Friday, but only about one-fourth of the civilians and navy students appeared—probably because the rally was a big secret until the last minute. Company A of the Naval Unit assumed one of the primary functions of N. D. tradition when it had a little lake party one early morning two weeks ago. Wouldn’t be the least surprised if there are more coming up.
The Seniors this year have the biggest gripe of the century. In ’40 they sat on the 15-yard line; in ’41, on the 25-yard line; and in ’42, on the 35-yard line. But this year, instead of getting those coveted 50-yard seats, they’ll get 55 cent standing room in the peanut gallery.
By the way, what ever happened to the plans for a senior dinner-dance? What’s the gory gobble, Mr. President?
MARINES MARCH
From the Halls of Zahm
To the Shores of Cavanaugh
Congrats to Sergeant King’s smoothstepping Marines. Those who got a glimpse of the parade last Saturday saw some mighty fine marching. But most Marines, unlike a lot of Sea Scouts,. make a habit of always marching well.
One of Chief Gallagher’s favorite deals backfired on him last week. Seems that he had told a couple of straggling jugheads to prance around the field like a, eh, kind of bird would do. One happy soul tripped lightly down one side of the field flipping his arms like a, eh, certain kind of bird. But instead of making the turn, he kept right on his way back to the hall. Rosiepants called after him, but the fellow turned around, said: “It’s getting cold! This here, eh, certain kind of bird is flying South!” and then continued on his way.
When Chief Clark recently left for sea duty, Company B decided to take up a collection and get him a little present. Suggestions ran all the way from a puptent to a promotion. By the way, that “B” in Company B stands for the banana they always get in the chow line.
Last week the parents of a Freshman were up to visit him. First they asked him about the weather. And he said, “That’s for the ducks.” Then they inquired about the food. He answered, “That’s for the birds.” And then they asked him about St. Mary’s. He said amazedly, “Are you kidding?” Which proves that they’re growing them smarter each year.
Four roses to the gentlemen who staged the very successful K. C. Vaudeville. It was a much better show than the modest Scholastic would ever let on. Much to our surprise we discovered that the trumpet player whom the Scholastic reported as unpleasantly conspicuous because of his “fly-catching” antics, was following directions from the bandleader.-Hence, we absolve him from all censure. We’re sorry that Johnny Boyle.didn’t inform us earlier.
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
P for Prokop and Petunias.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole..... Bill Carey._______'... Dick Ames_________ James Schaeffer.. John Mattmiller. Charles Renaud... Rev. C. M. Carey..
.....Managing Editor ....Sports Editor ....Campus Editor ....Admin. Editor ....Circulation .Staff Photographer ....Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week	(Wm. Talbot and
......(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters....Bill Waddington,
V 7 fJ. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
N.R.O.T.C-----H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina
Marines ......1.......Lou Riepenhoff
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertis-. ing by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Ix>s Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, T-nHin-na
Staff meetings in the Editorial Roons, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:1S p. m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	'
at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
OCTOBER 1, 1943
NO. 12
Engineers, R.O.T.C. Dance Tonight
Big Weekend Planned for Ball-Goers
Boyle to Play for Engineers, Guests at Progress Club
Contributing their part to the festivities of Notre Dame’s first home game weekend of the current season, the Engineers have planned a mammoth, colorful ball for the Progress Club tonight.
Since it is very doubtful that there will be any opportunity to hold the customary class dances, the Engineers consider their Ball a worthy substitute. Student enthusiasm for the project has been clearly exhibited, for all available bids were sold by Tuesday noon of this week. The holiday spirit which permeates all Notre Dame men at the prospect of a big game will be in full swing by dance time tonight.	-
Miss Claudia’ Sullivan, a very attractive young lady, will reign as queen of the Ball. Miss Sullivan, who will be the guest tonight of Chairman William Snyder, is a resident of Toledo, Ohio.
A section of the Stadium has been set aside for the Ball-goers. Since the game starts at 2:00, dancers are reminded that a margin of only eleven hours will inter-
Queen Claudia Sullivan
vene for the dancers to recover from their late date tonight.
The Progress Club is the place, and Johnny Boyle and his Notre Dame Cavaliers, 12 pieces and two vocalists, will be there with the best of their dancy music.
The return of St. Mary’s to the field has eased the task of date-getting for* the Engineers and their friends, and bodes well for an amazing show of beauty at this evening’s affair.
William Snyder, senior in Metallurgical Engineering, is general chairman of the Ball. Those who have helped him in smoothing out difficulties of time, place, music, etc., are: Joseph Fieweger, music; Earl Englert and August Legeay, arrangements; Robert Kohl and Leo Lar-die, publicity; Ray Smith and Jack McKenna, tickets; and William Johnson, patrons.	,
Patrons and honored guests of the Ball, chosen principally from the faculty of the College of Engineering, are as follows: Rev. John C. Burke, C.S.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Schubmehl, dean of the College of Engineering; Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Northcott, head, department of electrical engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Walter Shilts, head, department of civil engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Ronald E. Rich, head, department of chemical engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Coffinberry, department of metallurgy; Mr. and Mrs. George Rohrbach, acting head, department of mechanical engineering; and Mr. Edward Kavanaugh, department of aeronautical engineering. *
The engineers have kept closed-mouth the plans for decorations of tonight’s Ball, but many surmise that something in the slide-rule-T-square tradition will predominate. Several pages have been set aside in the dance programs for a condensation of Smoley’s Tables, and a number of texts will be supplied for those industrious fellows who consider their Calculus important enough to occupy the intervals between dances. Their number may he small, but their scholarly enthusiasm will necessarily be great, and a wonder to behold.
i
Indiana Club is First Stop on: NROTC Week-end Cruise
Tonight’s the night! And at 2100 sharp the ROTC weekend cruise will steam out of port at the Indiana Club, and start on its round of dances and football festivities. .
Frank “Tex” Crowley, as Officer of the Deck, announced that final plans had been completed for weighing anchor on schedule, and William Madden, Dick Pedrotty, Dave Champion and Jim Crowley, assistants, who have arranged details throughout the entire weekend, predict smooth sailing for the whole voyage.
Teddy Powell and his sensational orchestra from New York City will provide music for the affair, which, more prosaically, is known as.the Third Annual Naval Ball for the Notre Dame Unit of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. Featured with the seventeen-piece band will be vocalists Gene Howard, vivacious Peggy Mann, and Jack Powell.
Decorations will all be in a nautical theme, with signal flags and nets decorating the walls. It is highly probable that some of the charming and fortunate
Moget Studios
Queen Ernestine Morris ■
5
guests of the Navy hoys will emerge from the evening with at least an elementary knowledge of a few of our fleets’ traditional distress signals, which is a worthy thing in itself.
Classical Music Featured in U. S. O. Show Tonight; Distinguished Artists to-Appear
Miss Ernestine Morris of South Bend, who is traveling all the way from Nashville, Tennessee, to be the guest of Offi-cer-of-the-Deck Crowley, will be queen of the Ball, although being quite pretty enough to assume that title in her own right.
Miss Jackie Buesing. Guest oi Honor
Miss Jackie Buesing, San Benito, Texas, is the guest of honor of Cadet Commander Charles Urrella.
Miss Kathy McLaughlin, Alton, Illinois, is the weekend partner of Dick Pedrotty.
Miss Katha Knode, South Bend, guest of David Champion.
Miss Evelyn Thoner, South Bend, the partner of James Crowley.
Miss Pat Travis, St. Mary’s College, is the guest of Bill Madden.
Miss Mary Frances Callaghan, St. Mary’s College, is the weekend partner of Jack Houghteling.
Captain H. P. Burnett, USN, Commanding Officer of this station, and the executive officers of the various other campus halls will be among the guest officers present for the Ball.
Tomorrow afternoon . when Notre Dame opens its home season against the “Yellowjackets” of Georgia Tech, the R.O.T.C. and their dates will pack an end zone section of the stadium and cheer the Irish on to victory. Following the game the party will move over to the Navy Drill Hall for the customary “Victory Dance,” which will be sponsored by the Unit’s Athletic Association. Ted Galligan and his band will be called upon to provide music for the event, which is slated to start at 8:30 P.M.
Tonight the USO Camp Shows will again bring an entertainment to Notre
Dame for the benefit of the Navy and
be presented at eight o’clock in the Drill Hall.
This program promises to be somewhat different from those which have been presented by the USO on campus this semester.
Instead of the usual gal-gal sort of thing, which so far has proved rather disap
pointing, tonight’s affair is to be made up of the best music of a number of classical and light operatic composers, with whom everyone is familiar.
Jerome Kern, Sigmund Romberg, Debussy, Bizet, Schubert and Puccini are but a few of the masters whose works will be interpreted by a group of experienced concert artists.
Among these will be Anna Turkel, soprano, who in addition to her three years with the Chicago Opera Company, has sung in concert and recital throughout the United States and in most of the principal cities of Europe. Miss Turkel made her American debut at Town Hall in New York, in 1930, and has been featured on several NBC radio programs in this country. ■	.	.
Blake Ritter, a native of Philadelphia and one of the original baritones of the Philadelphia Opera Company, will also be present tonight. Mr. Ritter has appeared in leading roles in “Rigoletto,” “Carmen,” “La Boheme,” and many other popular operas. He has sung in concert halls and in recitals in the East and the Mid-west.
In addition to the' accompanying each of the artists in the concert, Henry Jackson, highly rated young American pianist, will also solo in a performance of his own. Tours which have included
«** ♦;« •;« * $ * ❖ LITERARY SUPPLEMENT ❖
The "Scholastic" is planning a ❖ $ Literary Supplement for the last is- ❖ & sue of the semester. Any student or ❖ *!* trainee wishing to submit matter will- ❖ *!* mail manuscript to the Editor, 305 ❖ $ Sorin Hall. Creative writing and es- **• & says will be featured. For further de- ❖-❖ tails see next week's "Scholastic." ❖ & The deadline has been tentatively ❖ •J* set at Oct. 12.	❖
many of the leading cities in America and Europe have given Mr. Jackson the experience and the reputation of a really fine pianist.
From the Metropolitan Opera Company and the Ballet Russe De Monte Carlo, will come Miss Rosita Rolando, to perform the Spanish dance, “Del Rocio.” Miss Rolando was born in New York City of Russian parents, and began her ballet studies at the age of nine years. She has toured with many of the leading ballet companies of this country, and appeared for a season at the Radio City Music Hall, in New York.
Rounding out the group of artists will be Patrick Henry, American tenor, who has achieved considerable fame in grand and light operas. Mr. Henry is a native of Worcester, Massachusetts, and has studied music both in this country and in Paris. This summer he sang with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra in the “Promenade Concerts,” and in former seasons toured this country, Canada, and Europe with various opera companies, in recital, and as guest soloist with outstanding symphony orchestras.
Never has the USO offered a more impressive program. The selections which will be played, sung, and danced are of an almost universal appeal. Anyone who is interested in worthwhile music is assured of an enjoyable evening. Following is a detailed program of the concert:
Henry Jackson (Piano selection) “Fire Dance," De Falla.	-
Patrick Henry (Tenor solos) “La Fleure” from “Carmen,” Bizet; “Danny Boy,’! Old English; “Yours is My Heart Alone,” Lehar.
. Anna Turkel (Soprano solos), “Vissi d’Arte” from “Tosca,” Puccini; “When the Home Bells King Again,” Wood; “A Little Song of Life,” Malotte.	'
Stephan Hero (Violin selections), “Gollywogg’s Cake Walk,” Debussy; “Intermezzo,” Provst; "Carmen Fantasy,” Bizet-Sarasate.
Blake Ritter (Baritone solos), “Largo al Factotum” from “Barber,” Rossini; “On the Road to Mandalay,” Speakes: “Old Man River” from “Showboat,”, Kern.
Rosita Rolando, Spanish Dance, “Del Rocio.”
Patrick Henry and Blake Ritter (Duet), “So-lenne in quest’ora,” Forza del Destino; Anna Turkel and Blake Ritter (Duet), “La ci darem la Mano,” Don Giovanni; Anna Turkel and Patrick Henry (Duet), “Sweetheart” from “Maytime,” Romberg; “Make ’ Believe” from “Showboat,” Kern. ’	‘:	•	■
Stephan Hero (Violin selections), “Ave Maria,” Shubert; “Gypsy Airs,” Sarasate. -
Anna Turkel, Patrick Henry and Blake Ritter (Finale), - “Finale from last act of .‘Faust’ ” Guonod. .	. : ’ -	•	.	.
National. Anthem!
6
Navy-Marine V-12 Dance October 15;
Eddy Howard to Provide the Music
The Navy and Marine V-12 students will have their first big fling of the year on Friday, Oct. 15, when Eddy Howard and his “Band of the Year” blow in after a couple of engagements at the Trianon and Aragon. The Notre Dame V-12 Ball will be the first great and formally organized ball of the year, and will gen-- erally replace the class balls of other years. Formal is the keynote, but the familiar tails and tux will be missing.
Scene of this year’s great frolic will be the immense Navy Drill Hall on the east side of the campus. Sumptuous decorations have been planned, but their nature, of course, will remain a military secret until the big night.
Eddy Howard and his boys will be making out with the melody from 9:00 to 1, and the V-12 Executive Office has announced that special liberty until 2 o’clock will be granted all those attending the ball on Friday night. Others will be confined to the station as usual.
Tickets for the affair, selling for only $3.00 per couple, will necessarily be limited. And because the contract demands specified advance payment, the tickets will go on sale one day only, Monday, Oct. 5. All Navy and Marine students will be paid on noon of the fifth, and, to accommodate them, special booths will be set up for the sales. Their location will be announced at a later date. However, it is presumed that they will be placed at the entrance of Zahm, Cavanaugh, Alumni, and Dillon.
Many have already started arrangements for importing, and many others have already contracted South Bend dates. Those yet undecided will be rushing the Service Center for the next two weeks, and encouraging and helpful word has come from those quarters already. Also, strictly off the record, come the familiar words, “Saint Mary’s Can Go!” Special arrangements for transportation to and from the campus and town are likewise being made. In fact, everything is being arranged well in advance so as to make this one of the biggest and best balls in school history.
One who will have very much to do with this success is Eddy Howard, that sensational young maestro leading “The Band of the Year.” At present, Eddy Howard is swamped with lists of engagements and especially quick arrangements had to be made to get him here by Friday night; and immediately after the dance he will have to leave for other places. Those who were here last year
will never forget the great impression he made after playing at the Sophomore Cotillion. He is returning this year after long-run engagements at the Lake Club, Blue Moon, Chase Hotel, -Aragon, and Trianon. And he’s bringing with him this time the “Four Swing Sirs,” famous vocal quartet, and in addition, one of the best piano teams in the nation.
The show will have plenty of variety with an outfit like Eddy Howard’s; but, more than this, he “aims to please” with a full evening of sweet and smooth dancing. Howard’s style is to play the soft
EDDY HOWARD
slow numbers that dancers love. Of course, you would naturally expect this from a band leader who has composed such great hits as: “Careless,” “My Last Goodbye,” “If I Knew Then,” “Now I Lay Me Down to Dream,” “Lonesome Tonight,” and that all-time favorite, “A Million Dreams Ago.”
Eddy Howard’s record speaks for itself. Those collectors of famous recordings will always remember him for: “The Nearness of You,” “Where Was I,” “Yours,” and “Miss You.” Howard made these songs famous. And the couples attending the big dance will hear these and many modern sweet ones like them. The word is “sa-mooth!”
Confidently entrusted with the success and the plans of the V-12 Ball are seven representative men. They are: General chairman, John Toole; tickets, Dick Doer-mer; decorations, George' Nesbit; refreshments, Bud Davis; music, Bill Talbot; publicity, Joe O’Keefe; transportation, Frank Keenan.
Big "Meet the Team" Rally in Fieldhouse Tonight
Everybody — all civilians and trainees — will be expected out for a big “meet the team” rally at 7:00 o’clock tonight.
The festivities will start when the band parades through the campus picking up students. Shortly before 7:00 it will leave the music rooms of Washington Hall, swung down the quadrangle, pass by Sorin and Walsh, turn left at the mall, and on past Dillon and Alumni to the fieldhouse. There a big program is planned — a program not yet completed when the Scholastic went to press.
Dick Doermer, a Dillonite trainee from Fort Wayne and last year junior class president, is in charge of arrangements. He promises a list of notables for “beat Georgia Tech” speeches, including the team and coaches. Traditional Notre Dame cheers and songs will be practiced for the benefit of new* men.
Week-end Calendar
This listing is presented to enable the SCHOLASTIC readers to keep abreast of all the many activities which will be part of this first football week-end of the year. Check those events which you consider “musts," clip this article and pin it in some conspicuous place in your room, wrap a string around all the fingers of both hands, or employ any other method which is most convenient, but be sure to join in the excitement and fun of as many of the following affairs as possible:
Pep Rally, Friday night, 7:00, Field House.
USO Show, Friday night, 8:00, Navy Drill Hall.
Engineers' Ball, Friday night, 9:00-2:00 a.m„ Progress Club.
NROTC Ball, Friday night, 9:00-2:00 a.m.. Indiana Club.
Notre Dame-Georgia Tech Football game.
Saturday afternoon, 2:00, N. D. Stadium. Victory Dance, Saturday night, 8:30-11:30.
Navy Drill Hall.
NROTC Tea Dance, Sunday afternoon, 2:30-5:30, Oliver Hotel Ballroom.
7
Talbot at Wranglers on
Trend of Western Culture
An exceptionally good paper was presented last week at the Wranglers Club by Bill Talbot, Louisville, Ky. He spoke on the trend of modern Western culture during the past several years. His talk included government and politics as well as art and education.
A wide discussion followed Bill’s talk, and the opinions expressed were generally in agreement with his ideas.
At this meeting the club felt the loss of one of their active and competent members, Wilbur Puhr, who was called to active duty in the Navy.
This week another excellent paper was presented by Jim Clark, Hamilton, Ohio. He spoke on Russian relations, a topic of great importance at the present time.
Fourth C. A. S. Co-Hop
Oct. 9 at Progress Club
Number four in the current series of CAS Co-Hops will be held October 9 instead of tomorrow night, since the first Victory Dance comes up then. Hope is high that the Oct. 9th affair will also be a victory party.
The new series of Co-Hops which began in the Progress Club on Sept. 11 has passed all expectations in the size and cooperation of crowds, and for the future the series will continue indefinitely.
Crowds have run from 413 to 460, and except for the first week when not enough men had been informed, there has been the right proportion of guys and gals. Both parties pay a 35 cent admission charge, which includes refreshments and choice of any spot on the dance floor. The size of the band has risen from five to seven, and smooth music predominates.
After the first week a public address system was.rented, and the third week the band was enlarged. Any future profit will be used to build a new Huddle. .
The Co-Hops originally were held in South Bend parish halls when it was discovered the local town wasn’t prepared to provide our new servicemen with a place to meet girls on Saturday nights. Nine dances proved the need for a bigger place, and CAS made use of the newly decorated Progress club.
A committee of girls from several of . the South Bend parishes have. planned the affairs together with the campus students. When the news service center was completed, the Co-Hops were opened to civilians as well as servicemen. And since the service center does not always have enough girls on hand to take care of all
8
Saturday night’ dancers, the crowd still consists primarily of blue and khaki uniforms.	■
Service and civilian students mix with the greatest of ease and the Hops are helping to mould a more solid relationship. Biggest problem all along has been the stag line, and the “I’m just looking around” type-of guy who really doesn’t know how to dance but thinks he’ll give the girls a break by merely being there. As one hostess puts it, “The lads with that attitude are always duds. Any man who can’t have a good time dancing- with any girl in the place is socially bankrupt.”
O.P.A. Official Speaks at
Law Club Meeting
Last Thursday, amid sandwiches and refreshments, the Law Club held its meeting in the Indiana Club. There were over 30 club members on hand as the guest speaker, Mr. Walter Cromley, O.P.A. Director of Rent Control of this district, gave a talk on the changes in law of real property. He traced the various changes from medieval to modern times.
Present at the meeting was Dean Manion, who gave a short speech, and introduced Mr. Cromley.
One of the highlights of the meeting was the presentation of the new officers to the members of the club. Hal Hunter was presented as the new president along with vice-president Bill Martin, treasurer Jack Lawlor, and secretary Joe Far-mar.
William Hendrick Elected
Prexy of Campus A.S.GE.
At a recent meeting, the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society, of Civil Engineers elected officers for the coming year. Chosen to wield the gavel for the bridge builders was William Hendrick, Sorin Hall junior?" Thomas Fry, Navy V-12 junior, making a big jump from apprentice seaman, was appointed second in command as vice-president. Assigned the quill duties for the year was R.O.T.C. junior Robert Fim-iani, and Robert Reid was elected treasurer.	‘
Mr. Carson'Buck, of the department of Engineering Drawing, showed .movies, accompanied by a lecture, on. his work with the U.S. Coast Geodetic Survey in the Western States.
Mr. Walter Shilts, faculty advisor and head of the department of civil engineering, briefly outlined for the new members the purpose of the ..student Chapter. Plans were made for the an-ual dinner party' to be held in the. near future. .	.	'
Glee Club Sings in Church;
Prof. Pedtke at Organ
Over 200 people were present at the
concert of organ, and choral music given by the Notre Dame Glee Club in Sacred Heart Church Sunday afternoon.
Prof. Daniel Pedtke, director of the Club, arranged the program so that the selections appeared in their approximate chronological order. The Glee Club alternated with Mr. Pedtke at the organ, as he played a variety which included Von Berchem, of the 16th century, and Shelly, of the 19th.
Gene Pechulis, baritone, was the only vocal soloist on the program. S He sang the beautiful Panis Angelicas of Caesar Franck. , Mr. Pedtke’s four organ selections were brilliantly executed. His wide experience as an organist was apparent from his masterly renditions.
There is no definite date for the next appearance of the Club, although several off-campus concerts are being considered at this time. Because of the unsettled state of affairs, it has been extremely difficult to maintain a series of practice sessions and a permanent personnel up to this time. In consequence, some of the Club’s presentations have fallen somewhat below the high standard which the concerts of previous years have led people to expect of it. Both Mr. Pedtke and the members of the. Club are sadly conscious of this, but are powerless to alter conditions a great deal under the circumstances. They do wish it to be made known, however, that they will always attempt to present the best possible concerts with the facilities available to them, and. that they are determined to preserve the. splendid tradition which has been left with them by former Glee Clubs.
"The program of Sunday’s concert follows: 0 Jesu’Domine (Von Berchem), Glee Club; Toccata and Fugue (Bach), Organ; Alleluia,. Amen from “Judas Maccabeus” (Handel), Glee Club; The Spacious Firmament from “The Creation”' (Haydn) Glee Club; Prelude for “The Deluge” (Saint- Saens), Organ; Chorale in A minor (Caesar Franck), Organ; Panis Angelicus (Caesar Franck) Gene .Pechulis,. .baritone; Ave Maria (Witt), Glee Club; Fanfare D’Orgue (Shelly), organ. . ,	.	•
i
1,200 New V-7 Trainees
Arrive on Campus Thursday
The fourth class of Midshipmen, approximately 1200, to be trained at Notre Dame, arrived Thursday, although some few members had been here during the previous week.
As in former classes many of these men have been with the fleet, and because of a display of exceptional qualifications, were given the chance to study for the commission of Ensign. These men are rated as specialists, and many who have taken their course of training here have established enviable records.
The Midshipmen will occupy the same four halls which have been assigned to them up to this time: Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, and Badin.
Ever since the spring of ’42, when the first Midshipmen arrived on campus, they have made a favorable impression on both the students and the faculty of the University. They have always displayed a real appreciation for the traditions of Notre Dame, and have throughout shown a respect for those precedents which mean so much to everyone connected with the school. In their unobtrusive way they have become a part of Notre Dame.
A warm welcome is extended to the incoming V-7 men, with the hope that the friendly, relations which have existed so far between all the elements now to be found in the University will be strengthened by their cooperation.
II II	'■
run n di iI Hi ninn uni hi ii । "a s ’	1 *
V-7 Badin Hall Hard at Work Again
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
By Jim Schaeffer
John W. Shea, of Poughkeepsie, New York, is the sixty-second Notre Dame man to die in the service of his country. Corp. Shea, ex. ’44, died in Asia September 14. The cause of his death is not known.
One of Notre Dame’s religious alumnae who is doing her part in the war effort is Sister Mary Aquinas, the “flying nun.” Sister Mary Aquinas, who received her master’s degree in physics from the University, is an educational adviser to the C.A.A. in Washington. Her aeronautics course at the Catholic University of America is one of the first, if not the first, sequence of such courses for Teacher Training in universities during the summer sessions. The Sister, who
o n
believes in practicing what she teaches, is a flier. She often takes her classes on inspection and demonstration tours through aircraft factories and airports. Her group of black-hooded nuns are a familiar sight in these places.
Five members of the class of 1943 who entered the armed services immedi- -ately upon their departure from Notre Dame, recently held a reunion in a port in the South-Seas.	.
The five were Ensign Edward Hickey, Private Jim Godfrey, Private Leo Keating, 2nd Lt. John McGraw, who left school in the middle of his junior year to join the Army, and William Fisher.
Keating and Fisher were roommates in Alumni Hall last semester, with Hickey their next door neighbor, and Godfrey lived down the hall a few doors.
Service Center Welcomes
New Group of Midshipmen
The South Bend Service Center wishes to extend its welcome to the new group of Midshipmen who are arriving on campus this weekend. The Service Center is the meeting place of the military groups of South Bend, and throughout the week it plays host to anyone in uniform, rendering them services -of varied types, and giving them free food, entertainment, and plenty of good will. ■
The weekends are usually the heaviest for the Center’s staff, which boasts, besides Senior Hostesses, various committees, and assistants, a membership of 7-50 Dance Hostesses, and 150 Junior Hostesses. The girls are present to provide dancing partners for the service . men; the music is supplied by various . bands that donate their time.
. Among the outstanding activities of ; the Center are the. Saturday evening meals seiwed by. the Red Cross Canteen Workers, the weekend tea dances, the borrowing book library which the Center invites the men to use, The Pirate’s Den, the men’s lounge, and the music room, where groups can gather, and sing to their homesick-hearts’ content. The week- . end dances are held from 2:30 to 5 Sat- . . urday afternoons, 8 to 11 Saturday eve- ■ . nings, and 1:30 to 4:40 on Sunday after- . noons. ’	'
’
❖	"SCHOLASTIC" MEETING ❖ ❖ There will be a meeting of all ❖ members of the "Scholastic" staff in &
❖	the offices next Wednesday at 8:00
$ p.m. An interesting evening is as- ♦ sured. '	‘
❖	♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ .
Pressbox Splinters
Irish Smother Weak Pitt
Eleven in Season Opener
By Bob Schramm
BY BILL WADDINGTON
It might have been conceivable to spot Pitt 21 points befoi'e the kickoff in last Satui’day’s contest, but the scoreboard’s final register of 41-0 put the experts to a lot of second-guessing. The massacre makes a fellow wonder just what we’ve got behind the Car-tier portals. Tomorrow’s encounter with Tech will definitely be held down to pigskin scoring rather
Bill Waddington than resembling a basketball final such as last week’s battle indicated. Anyway, there won’t be any Clint Castleberry to worry about on Bill Alexander’s team, nor any punter like Pat McHugh. And we certainly hope there’ll be a red light alert this time for our boys when the "Wrecks” pull the old statue of liberty. They’re bound to have a bag-o-tricks, so keep your eye open for the unusual.
Wisconsin tripped on another hurdle on the road to victory. Undoubtedly, it’s due to the man-power shortage as is the case with so many universities and colleges. However, when Harry Stuhldreher can muster up only one manager for three days a week, then it’s really tough. Presently, the assistant coaches are toting the water buckets, helmets, and other paraphernalia to the players.
Rally, So They Tell Me
Notre Dame, the team with the greatest school spirit in America — That’s what has been the well earned reputation of this institution in past years. We often wonder if that spirit didn’t leave with all the draftees and others being called into the service from the N.D. cariipus. If last Friday night was any criterion of the enthusiasm to be displayed at future rallies, then the whole bunch of us ought to hang up. There may be a tendency to be partially weak due to the influx of transfer students who naturally don’t feel fully allied with the Blue and Gold cause for sympathetic reasons of their own. However, cheering at last week’s rally really stunk. There ought to be enough of the real Notre Dame in most of us to give-out with a great deal more volume. And to the men
new to the campus, we hope that you’ll set aside any alien thoughts you might possess and join the chorus. Notre Dame belongs to one and all alike.
Book of the Years Club
Last week, a bright yellow and black cover made its way into the country’s newsracks, including the N.D. caf. By title, Esquire Sports Book — by way of subject matter, it’s football a la king. The author, Clark Shaughnessy, famed reviver of the “T” who made it pay-off on college campuses, gives his views on the 12 greatest football games of all time; ones that were significant milestones in the development of the game. He gives his version of the 12 greatest plays, backfield combinations, and his eleven choices for all-time All-American. Shaughnessy’s dope is quite enlightening to Mr. and Mrs. J. Q. Fan. That description of the N.D.-Army game in 1913 is his conception of the greatest thing that ever happened in football, the forward pass. Also, he revives the thrilling Irish-Southern Cal game of ’31, and the great Trojan comeback after almost certain defeat. Most naturally, he gave a big blow to the Four Horsemen of the early middle 20’s as well as the “Gipper” as an individual star. If this book doesn’t tell you what makes football tick, then you must have been brought up on rugby.
'When Lawrence College in Wisconsin scheduled the N.D. NROTC team for Saturday, October 16, they made a tremendous move on their part. The name “Notre Dame” was awe-inspiring enough to nominate that week-end as homecoming. Moreover, they shoved an originally scheduled game down a little further’ on the card. For Lawrence’s sake and the RO’S alike, we hope that the Walsh Hall boys live up to pre-season press comments. Predictions for tomorrow:
■ Notre Dame over Georgia Tech Purdue over Illinois	. - . .
Michigan over. Northwestern Wisconsin over Iowa Ohio State over Missouri
; Minnesota over Nebraska Seahawks over. Iowa State Navy over . Cornell Army, over Colgate	.
Camp Grant over Marquette	. '
Southern Cal over California U.C.L.A. over Stanford	.
Saturday, September 25th, was a good day for the Pitt Panthers only from the standpoint of attendance. Before a crowd of 58,000, only three thousand short of the total attendance last season, the Pitt team made their humble and seemingly untimely re-entrance into “big-time” football.
The speedy backs and strong line of the Irish played rings around the inexperienced red and white clad eastern squad. Clark Shaughnessy, who is credited with the revival of the old “T” formation, found that his players were still a bit young- for the “T” in its rejuvenated state.
Frank Leahy used almost all his players, but it seemed to make no difference. First string or third, they split the Panther defense wide open as the backs, Miller, Rykovich, Lujack, Palladino, Hanlon, and Bertelli, cruised through. On defense Notre Dame, well schooled in the “T,” seemed to know just what to expect^ smothering many a Pitt back before he reached the line of scrimmage. Time and again they ironed out game little" Joe Mocha, the 17-year-old Panther . quarterback, as he tried to get off passes.
The deepest that Pitt was able to in-• vade Notre Dame territory was in the first period when Rykovich punted to Pitt’s 16 yard line and Lou Chelko ran the ball back over 30 yards to the Panther 48. Then Joe Mocha uncorked the only completed Pitt pass of the day to Clair Malarky on the N.D. 32 yard line. ' On the next play Mocha, 166-pounder, tried.to heave another, but Notre Dame swamped, him and the pass was inter-? cepted by Lujack. The Pittsburgh pass-. ers got no protection whatever. In direct contrast to this the Notre Dame passers were so well defended that they had ; plenty of time to spot their receivers.
’The game was ten minutes old when . (Continued on page 18)
10
INTRODUCING
By Al Lesmez
Down in the catacombs of Sorin Hall, hidden behind the long rows of similar wooden doors, is the campus home of Herbert Edward (Herb) Coleman, star center of the Fighting Irish.
Herb was quietly reading a story in the Saturday Evening Post when I
Herb Coleman
barged in with my questions, but, instead of resenting my interference, he was happy of the chance to show his excellent collection of modern jive records, along with the picture of a very cute blonde jeune fills which he keeps on his desk.
As he leaned up against the wall of his room, Herb told me about himself in his quiet, unassuming way. Hanging there on the wall next to him was a recording of Indian Summer with a sign below it reading: “The vanishing Americans—good records and civilians.”
On June 18th, 1923, Coleman was born in Liverpool, Ohio, of German parents. Later his family moved to Chester, West Virginia, where he attended Chester High. Attended is used in the complete sense of the word, for Herb did such an excellent job of representing his school on the athletic field that he Avon no fewer than 11 monograms: 3 in football, 4 in baseball, and 4 in basketball. He played in the backfield in football, third base in baseball, and captained all three of the different teams. In his senior year he was chosen on the all-Ohio Valley football team.
While trying out for the Notre Dame squad, Coach Leahy picked Herb and two others and tutored them in the art of centering. At that time the varsity
was sadly lacking good centering material and this step by Coach Leahy was necessary to insure a clicking T formation. Because of the intricacies of the T, the.center must be very alert, for he is called upon to do much more than the average center has to do in the other formations. Least of his duties is helping to hold that line for the split second that it takes the quarterback, who is just behind him and that close to the onrushing enemy, to get rid of the ball. But Herb is versatile and this conversion from backfield to line was an easy thing for him to master, and to master
1943 FOOTBALL ROSTER
Name	Pos.	Home Town	Age Wt. Ht. Exp..	
Adams, John W			R.T.	Charlestown, Ark. ....	..21 212 6'7”	.1
Angsman, Elmer J. ...		L.H.	Chicago, Ill		..17 185 5'11"	0.
Berezney, Peter, Jr. ..		L.T.	Jersey, N. J. 		..19 215 6'2"	0 '
Bertelli, Angelo B			Q.B.	W. Springfield, Mass.	22 173 6'1"	2
Cibula, George 			 L.T.	Chicago, Ill			..18 197 5'11"	0
Coleman, Herbert E. .		C.	Chester, W. Va		..20 198 6'1"	1
Czarobski, Zygmont ...		R.T.	Chicago, Ill		..21 212 6'	1
Dancewicz, Frank J.		;..Q.B.	Lynn, Mass		..18 173 . 5'10"	0
Davis, Raymond 				L.H.	Spokane, Wash			..23 170 5'10"	*3
Earley, J. Frederick .		R.H.	Parkersburg, W. Va.	18 165 5'7"	0.
Filley, Patrick J			L.G.	South Bend, Ind		..21 175 5'8"	2
Flanagan, James 			L.E.	W. Roxbury, Mass. ..	..20 175 6'%"	0 r
Ford, Gerard W				L.E.	St. Louis, Mo	—	..18 188 6'^"	0
Ganey, Michael 				R.T.	Chicago, Ill	-	..17 194 6'	0
Hanlon, Robert S				.....F.B.	Chicago, Ill..........—	..19 185 6'1"	0
Kelly, Robert J					R.H.	Chicago, II		..18 178 5'9%	" 0
Krupa, Edward H			R.H.	Flint, Mich			..21 178 5'11"	1 ;
Kuffel, Raymond 				L.E.	Milwaukee, Wis		..21 210 6'3"-	*1 ■
Kulbitski, Victor J			F.B.	St. Paul, Minn		..22 203 5'11"	*2
Limont, J. Paul 				L.E.	Hyannis, Mass			..20 185 6'2"	1
Lujack, John 			L.H.	Connellsville, Pa. 		..18 180 6'	0
Lyden, Michael P. Jr.		C.	Youngstown, Ohio —	..17 188 6'2"	0.
Manzo, Michael 			.L.T.	Medford, Mass		..20 205 5'11"	0
Mello, James A			F.B.	W. Warwick, R. I. ...	..21 185 5'11"	1 • .
Meter, Bernard 			.......;	...R.G.	Cleveland, Ohio 		..19 185 5'10"	1.
Mieszkowski, Edward		R.T.	Chicago, Ill	-	..17 205 6'1"	0
Miller, Creighton 			 L.H.	Wilmington, Del			22 190 6'2"	2 . '■
Palladino, Robert F. .		R.H.	Natick, Mass		..18 175 5'10":	0 ; . . . -
Perko, John F			L.G.	Ely, Minn				.22 200 5'11"	*1 .
Rellas, Chris S			R.E.	Nashua, N. H			.21 183 6'.	0 , ’
Renaud, Charles 					.....L.G.	Fort Worth, Texas.....	.16 185 5’8"	o
Ruggiero, Frank A. ...		L.T.	Orange, N. J			.20 215. 5'8%'	' 0
Rykovich, Julius A. ...		...F.B.	Gary, Ind			.20 190 6'%"	6
Signaigo, Joseph S. ...		R.G.	Memphis, Tenn		.20 200 6' ?	o
Skat, Al			;...Q.B.	Milwaukee, Wis		..21 170 5'10"	- o . .
Snyder, James 		......	F.B.	Taff, California. .		.17 188 5'5"	0 ■
Statute, Arthur J. ..—		C.	Saugus, Mass. ...„—	.18 190 6'2"	0
Sullivan, George A. ...		L.T.	E. Walpole, Mass			_17 205 6'2%'	’ o
Szymanski, Francis S.			„.C.	Detroit, Mich	—	.20 197 6' ?	1 ..
Terlep, George 			.Q.B.	Elkhart, Ind			..20 165 5'8":	: 0	’
Todorovich, Marko S. .		R.E.	St. Louis, Mo.™	....	.20 205; 6'4">	?i	.
Trumper, Edward —		J......R.E.	St. Paul, Minn. 		.23 . 208 6'2"'	*i .	■
Urban, Gasper G				.....„...,L,G.	Lynn, Mass		.20 190 6' >	0 D - '
Waldron, Ronanye .....		...Q.B.	Silver Springs, Md.™	.17 170 5'10"	: 0 ‘	'
White, James J		.....	.L.T.	.Edgewater, N. J. ......	..22 208 6’2"	/I/. --
Yonakor, John J. 		......I......	L.E. .	Dorchester, Mass. ™_'_	:.22 220: .6'4"	-
Zilly, John L		..........	R.E.	Southington, Conn. ..„	..21 .188 6'2"-'	
* Indicates number of years experience		at schools other than Notre Dame.		
			--	
really well. So well did he do his job that Coach Leahy decided to start him in last year’s Iowa Pre-Flight game which resulted in a 28-0 victory; he has been our regular center ever since.
Herby’s hobby, which is quite evident in his room, is collecting swing records with emphasis on anything that. has Count Bassie or Louis Jordan. With this liking of swing comes the natural cohobby of dancing, and Herb says that dancing is one of his favorite pastimes; a pastime made more enjoyable if his (Continued on page 18)
Irish Face Their First Big Test Tomorrow;
Ga. Tech Called "Michigan of South"
BY BILL CAREY	•
Sports Editor, Notre Dame "Scholastic"
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame Model “T”—vintage of ’43—will rattle onto the sod of Cartier Field to match pigskin power with the Rambling Wreck from Georgia Tech.
The Irish, though fresh from a 41-0 walkaway at Pittsburgh, look to the tilt with Bill Alexander’s boys as their first decisive match of the season. Clark Shaughnessy’s Panthers, undermanned and inexperienced, were woefully weak and no test of the true prowess of the green jerseyed club. Coach Frank Leahy genuinely fears the eleven Alec will bring up from the Southland. The clean cut triumph the Engineers carved at the expense of the North Carolina Tarheels proved the Yellowjackets to be a well balanced, heady club — an aggregation with football savvy to utilize the ultra
razzle-dazzle of Mentor Alexander. On the basis of actual achievement the Atlantans should be favored over a yet untested Notre Dame.
The intersectional rivalry of Notre Dame and Georgia Tech stretches back to the young coaching days of Knute Rockne and Bill Alexander. Though the Irish now hold an eleven to two edge in the record books, close, hard-fought games have predominated.
Both teams have taken delight in upsetting the other when a loss made a tremendous difference in the season’s play.
In 1927 the Irish won
27-7 when Georgia Tech was otherwise undefeated. Tech ran over Notre Dame in 1928, and then went on to win the Rose Bowl game against California that New Year’s day.
Irish Seek Revenge
When the Irish clatter out the player’s ramp tomorrow, they well remember the passing of Clint Castleberry, the running of Eddie Prokop, the punting of Pat McHugh and the play of the rugged mustard jerseyed line of 1942. Nine of Notre Dame’s probable starters saw action in that unexpected 13-6 setback, and are resolved to revenge this blotch. Captain elect “Mutt” Manning, Lowrey, Beall, Faulkner, Stein, Ryckley and Prokop, who all will be on this Georgia club, contributed to the winning cause.
Notre Dame Hit by Injuries
Dame Injury and her newly adopted brother, Ineligibility, have cruelly swung their scythes at the ankles of some of Frank Leahy’s lads. Bob Palladino, freshman scatterback who set up and scored one big six pointer against Pitt, was hurt in the fray and -will be sidelined for an unknown length of time. Tackle Pete Perezney also is a charter member of the bandage brigade, with a bad knee. It was recently announced that halfback Bob Kelly and Gerry Ford will be ineligible until the end of the semester. Kelly was groomed for the right half back slot in the second backfield, where his driving power and speed gobbled huge chunks of yardage in the open. A recent alumnus of Leo High in Chicago, he was also the best punter on the squad with the possible exception of Creighton Miller. Ford was a first rate replacement at one of the wings. Others to make the sudden trade of class books for pigskins were Jim Thorpe, Verlie Abrams, Dick Arado, Jim King, Frank Sullivan and John Frampton.
Tech a Powerhouse
End Coach Hughie Devore,' fresh off the Indian scout trail leading up from Atlanta, reports, the Yellowjackets as the “Michigan of the South.” They have the power and finesse to once again outscore the Irish in the opening tilt of the home
- season. Defensively a Gigged unit, their attack i s . o f the wide open, all-
the-way variety of which Alexander is f J an avid exponent.	= |
The Yellowjacket line has been re-if cruited from Tech, Clemson and Vander- ? j bilt regulars. Heavier than usual, this J frontier is a typical Southern unit—fast £ aggressive, and hard hitting. They are| ! led by Captain “Mutt” Manning who in-^N tercepted two important Notre Darnel aerials in ’42. Voted the most valuable31 cog in the Rambling Wreck and All-|‘ Southern Conference pivotman last fall,| Mutt is now a candidate -for national!' recognition. He was missing in last® ’ week’s Tarheel encounter and his pres-I
e
t
s c I 7 h I t n ti a
Notre Dame
Probable Stcrfi
Po^itio
12
Georgia Tech Staged Upset Last Week; Brings Smartly-Coached Squad to N. D.
.	BY BILL SUMMEROUR
Sports Editor, The Georgia Tech "Technique"
ence tomorrow will further strengthen the Atlantans.
Transfers from Vanderbilt and Clemson blend with other Tech holdovers to complete the front wall. Sophomore end Phil Tinsley is rated by Coach Frank Thomas of Alabama as the best wing he has seen since the fish-net hands of Don Hutson hooked passes for the big red team.
Tailback Eddie Prokop is the Engineer’s ball toting menace. A high school teammate of Notre Darner Bud Meter, and the young brother of an ex-Irish
(Continued on page 21)
itorting Lineups
Georgia Tech
ifsition
...
ILr....
tj.
BB.
FB.

_____ Smith _____________ Sieber (Captain) Manning __________________ Beall __________________ Morrow ___________________ Kilzer —__________________ Faulkner
Scharfschwerdt
Prokop
. Atlanta, Ga., Sept. 30, 1943—A surprise victory by Tech over a highly favored North Carolina eleven and an overwhelming defeat of Pittsburgh at the hands of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame last Saturday will cause the eyes of the nation to turn towards South Bend tomorrow where a toss-up battle between two mighty sectional rivals will be fought in the headline grid attraction of the Mid-West.	.
Two of the nation’s most colorful teams clash head on in a contest that will be a fight to the finish, if the traditions of several years have anything to do with the match tomorrow. During the past five years, Notre Dame has defeated Tech - in four games with the Jackets winning an unexpected victory last year mainly through the brilliant running of Freshman Clint Castleberry, now a member of Uncle Sam’s air force. The Tech-Notre Dame series first began in 1922, but has not run continuously since then.
Tech has a strong line but a green backfield. At center will be Tech’s AllAmerican candidate and newly-elected team captain, “Mutt” Manning, a strong pivot man who will be back in action after missing the North Carolina encounter due to a knee injury. Manning can be ably relieved by Charles Hoover, a Navy V-12 transfer student from Vanderbilt. John Steber, also a transfer from Vandy and co-captain, and Frank Beall will see most of the service at the
guard Smith will .be
most of the backfield, the ends
line, men four have
spots, while Bill Harper, Bill (Clemson) and Harry Morrow called on for tackle duty.
13.
Like
are inexperienced. Noticeably absent from Tech’s collection of plays are the famous end-arounds that attracted such wide fame wrhen the Atlanta eleven was selected to meet Missouri in 1939 in the Orange Bowl classic. Gene Hill and Walter Kilzer are slated to receive the call to these positions.
After playing the best game of his career up-to-date in the Tarheel tilt, Fullback Eddie Prokop is expected to early most of Tech’s hopes fora win. Prokop made a touchdown dash of 81 yards Saturday. Young
Frank Broyles has shown a lot of ability at this berth also and will see a lot of relief work. Ed Scharfschwerdt, a power runner, at left half back; “Mickey” Logan, a duck-legged speed demon, at right halfback; and Jack Faulkner, a good defensive man, at quarter back, will prob-. ably make up the rest of the starting backfield.
Tech inherited some .Navy aid, but nothing comparing with that sent to most large schools, when considering number and ability. Only engineering students from southern colleges were placed here by the Navy. Schools such as the University of North Carolina and Duke got the other transfers.
Tech’s starting lineup against the Tarheels, a team three or four deep in every position with players who won varsity letters on powerful college elevens, contained only three transfer students. The rest of the team was composed largely of the same boys that were trounced by the Georgia Freshman team last Thanksgiving. Out of the entire 70 men re
porting to practice, only 10 have ever played varsity ball before, and seven of these are concentrated at the center of the
This leaves only three for the two end and backfield spots who any varsity ex-
perience at all. All of this is leading up to one thing —Tech’s victory over
(See p. 23)
Tradition—The Fighting Irish
Tomorrow, when Notre Dame takes the field against Georgia Tech, Coach Leahy will send into the stadium a team that finds itself composed of men from many college quarters. In an hour of national peril they have become part of us, and now gather about their brave shoulders the mantle of the Fighting Irish. To us in the stands, they are a symbol of unity of purpose—representing all of us who are likewise drawn from the various schools of the nation, welded in mind and heart by the same national crisis, and heirs to the glorious traditions of Notre Dame.
Tomorrow, a splendid heritage of fighting men is given into our keeping, no less than to them. The name, Fighting Irish, was originally a derisive term, flung at us because Notre
Dame was rarely outscored—and never outfought. We took up the title, and made it an honorable, even an enviable thing, symbolic of and synonymous with indomitable courage and the will to win.
And yon—The Notre Dame of 1943—what will you do with that splendid heritage of fighting men? Remember, a team is as strong as the heart that motivates it. We alone can give the team an incentive to fight. In this day, it is not only a tradition, but likewise a patriotic challenge to the spirit of victory that has always walked this campus. Games are won in the stands, as well as on the field; and that is how you can help the team. Remember: it is Notre Dame who wins; and you are Notre Dame!
GO IRISH—BEAT TECH!


14
Interhall Tennis Nears Finals as Four Teams Remain
By Dan Reardon
To determine the winner of the first division of interhall tennis, Alumni has vet to complete a match with Dillon I.
racket wielding.
The score up to now is 3-1, with Alumni on the top side.
The best individual match of the season was Charlie Samson’s defeat of Bob Faught, 6-4, 8-6. It was touch and go all the way, but Charlie managed to pull the game out of the fire with a display of splendid
Alumni’s only win was credited to Jim Griffin when he downed Frankie Curran, 6-2, 6-1. Then Rubinelli outplayed Talbot, to give Dillon I the 3-1 lead.
In the doubles matches so far played, Charlie Samson and Jim Griffin have conquered the Frankie Curran - Bob Faught duo, 7-5, 6-3.
In League II Walsh and Faculty are to meet to vie for league honors.
In League II semi-finals, to determine which team would meet the Faculty squad, Walsh defeated Zahm in a close contest. The deciding match of the series saw Ed Caparo overwhelm Bob Paddock in three close sets, 6-0, 4-6, and 6-2.
mitting many new men to march during the half-times of football games this fall. Fonnations, marching line-ups, distribution of the music, counter-marching details, selection of the musical library and uniform arrangements would present a wracking headache to any efficient management.
"Irish" Will Become ’’Shamrock" at Bark of Gun
Store Hours, 9:30 to 6:00
Attacking these problems with his usual energy, Mr. Hope has emerged with a smile on his face and a promise that this year’s marching band will step out shine as of tomorrow.
Fifty-seven servicemen and forty-six civilians make up the band personnel. Since the trainees must wear the pre
Hope Plans New Formations for Band as Season Opens
By Bob O'Toole
“Come in,” shouted Mr. H. Lee Hope as he reached for another aspirin. And as we did the director of the Notre Dame band turned in his chair to greet us, moaning a weak “hello.” In response to a plea for a story he livened up a bit, shuffled a number of papers aside and prepared to expound on the finer qualities of his organization.
During the summer months the band presented a concert almost every Friday night, a real accomplishment in these days of conflicting class schedules and added burdens on service men members. At no time was Mr. Hope able to estimate the number of men who would show up for practice on a given day, and yet he managed to get the boys together often enough to promote concerts which met considerable success.
That, however, was only the beginning. Now the band has expanded, ad-
two™
The Inside S+ory of Arrow Ties
Arrow ties have a special lining to help make perfect knots and to resist wrinkles.
$1.00 to $1.50
Ellsworth's Men's Shop
Street Floor
15
scribed uniform at all times only the civilians will be able to sport the traditional blue. Formations have been devised with an eye to the uniform problem, however, and the contrasting colors will show up to advantage.	'
Records show that fifty-five formations were mastered last season in an all-out effort to put the band high up in national acclaim. That the effort was not in vain is attested by the praises of halftime radio commentators. Intricate formations are the result of long hours of planning and practice — an hour a day from Monday to Friday. Led by drum major Jim Kress, a Marine trainee who “fronted” the. band last year, the band marches up and down Cartier Field every night. Nor is their work, once done, of a permanent nature, for there are four or five new routines always to be learned for the coming week. Needless to say, all this leads to much weeping and gnashing of teeth before the final arrangement is exhibited on Saturday afternoons.
Tomorrow the band will use five formations in its initial appearance this year, paying especial honor to Ball-goers and their guests at half-time. Popular music is the order of the day, and if the team rocks the crowd as well as the band, it will be a great day for the Irish. .
Announce Cross-Country Run As Scheduled for Sunday
By Joe Fahey
The starting date of the cross-country championship run has definitely been decided by Coach Handy and his track manager as this coming Sunday, October 3. The race is the war-time edition of the annual interhall freshman track meet held each fall. This year it has been opened to all; the bars have been lifted not only to. upperclassmen, but to all servicemen on the campus.
This season it has been extremely hard for Coach Handy to I discover . the strength of his future varsity squad because of the long schedule of most students. He hopes to straighten things out by close observation of the contestants in Sunday’s event. .A short trial run last Sunday showed Bill Martin of the V-12 to be the likely favorite. Woods, a transfer from Wisconsin, has also shown signs of rapid improvement.
■ The course will be 3.7 miles long, beginning outside Cartier. Field- From there it will run along the back of the campus to St. Mary’s lake, which will be rounded once and thence onto the path to St. Joseph’s lake. Here it will veer out to. the Dixie Highway, back down the other side and around the same lake, once more, then, a spurt in back of
Corby, across the campus to the starting point.
The first fifteen men to cross the finishing line will receive medals now on display in the fieldhouse. Spotters will be on duty around the course to enforce regulations. Approximately twenty - five entries have been filed with track manager Bill Gates, and more are expected. All those who don’t care to enter but wish to see the running of the race are advised to be at Cartier Field at 10:30 Sunday morning, October 3rd.
Attention-
future
Navy Officers
of Qualify with Built-in Comfort
the pair.
BOSTON is Proud of its Record of Proper Fit and Service with'Hundreds of Your Mates in Past Classes.
Black, Blucher, PlainToe Oxford.
A Dress Oxford — with Marching Comfort.
Company D Wins Recent Marine Drill Competition
By Don Wilson
Company D of the Marine Detachment of Notre Dame was the winner of the drill competition held last Saturday on the drill field west of the stadium. Only ten points separated the first and last place companies, indicating the serious competitive spirit of all participants.
Members of Company D were congratulated by Captain John W. Finney as
16
head of the Marine Detachment, who awarded them extra leave until ten o’clock Sunday evening as a reward.
In a letter of commendation to the detachment, Private Vernon E. Waters, commander of Company D, was praised by Captain H. P. Burnett, commanding-officer of the Navy V-12 Unit, for the skill exhibited by him and-the company in winning the competition. The commendation said also: “The combination of effort, cooperation and military spirit shown at the end of so short a training period illustrates to best advantage the Marine motto ‘Semper Fidelis’.’’
The review was judged by naval officers and was observed by a mixed military and civilian audience. The competition consisted of facing, column, and flanking movements. Included also were a series of special drills among which was a “T-formation” in honor of the “Fighting Irish.” Another specialty was called “to the winds—march!” which is self explanatory.
The prize—a golden guidon—was presented to company commander Waters by Mrs. H. P. Burnett, who in turn was given an orchid by Staff Sergeant Blunt on behalf of the Marine Detachment.
Students Expect Another
Win Tomorrow, Poll Shows
One thing is certain, if campus opinion can be relied on, and that is that tomorrow’s game with Georgia Tech will certainly not be as easy a win as was our 41-0 victory over Pitt last week. Mos J of the students predict a victory, a few give the game to Georgia Tech, but all of them cede that it is going to be a tough game.
Bob Gludowatz’ prediction was the closest last week, running short of the real tally by a mere touchdown; he guessed a final score of 34-0. Since he was so close, this column invites him to be the guest forecaster of tomorrow’s game.
Sophomore Bob Gludowatz, Detroit, Michigan: “Tech won’t be quite as easy as Pitt was last week, but I don’t think the game will be close. I think the score will be about 34-7.”
Dick Madill, V-12, Freeport, New York: “It’s easy to see that it will be Georgia Tech all the way. They are rated as one of the best teams in the South, and last week’s game with North Carolina proved their power.; We’ll lose by a score of 20-7.” a. .
George E. Mathwig,Marine, Sioux City, Iowa: “Because of the present manpower shortage caused by the war, Notre Dame should win in a breeze.’ I guess the score will be 21-7.”	;	"
Sophomore Tom Vail, Poughkeepsie,
New York: “Georgia is a highly touted team this year, and will try to repeat its performance of last season. However, they’re in for a great disappointment for it’s going to be N.D. over the ‘Ramblin’ Wrecks’ by about 21-13.”
Don Knorr, V-12, Milwaukee, Wisconsin : “It’s going to be a Notre Dame victory, with the score 21-7.”
Freshman Jack Cato, Indianapolis, Indiana: “Lots of things can happen tomorrow, especially a Notre Dame defeat. Those boys from the South are just good, and we’ll be on the hurt end of a 26-7 score.”
Senior Bill O’Connor, Harrisburg, Pa.: “I believe that we will win after a tough game. Georgia Tech is rated as one of the South’s best teams, but I think we will take them 20-13.”
Loren I. Smith, Marine, Nokomis,
Illinois: “This will be a tough, close game. N.D. will win 6-0.”
Fifth-year Law student, Hal Hunter, New Madrid, Mo.: “Notre Dame should win by 7 points. Georgia Tech has consistently a fine team and a tricky one. But one touchdown will satisfy me. The final score will be 21-14, Notre Dame’s favor.”
C.	W. Powers, R.O.T.C., Thomasville, Pa.: “We will win but the 20-7 score
Leather Goods and Gifts for Every Need
LUGGAGE BILLFOLD SETS ZIPPER NOTEBOOKS HANDBAGS GLOVES
Gifts wrapped for Mailing ;
HansZ-Rintzsch Shop
138 N. Michigan
Where you board the Notre Dame Bus
Men at Notre Dame
Welcome, to WYMAN’S MEN’S SHOP
Naval officers, seamen, marines, civilian students — you'll find Wyman's men's shop a convenient place to shop for the extra things you need, such as regulation —
Socks Ties Undershirts
Handkerchiefs Bath Towels
Soap
Shaving Accessories
JOAN NAVARRE, Wy-..jfian’s personal shopper, will: gladly help you do gift shopping for your family or girl friend. Ask for her in the store or phone 3-5101.
WYMAN’S
On Michigan across from the bus stop—by the clock
17 .
that Georgia beat North Carolina by was quite impressive. We’ll be on the long end of a 26-7 score.”
Sophomore John Power, Chicago, Illinois : “With quite a few returning letter-men, a coach like Bill Alexander, and a well deserved triumph over North Carolina, I’m certain Georgia Tech will have a good ball club on the field tomorrow. However, after* that mauling at Pittsburgh last Saturday, I’ll certainly say it will be Notre Dame 21, Georgia Tech 7.w
Leo Wrenn, V-12, Chicago, Illinois: ‘‘Both Georgia Tech and Notre Dame should use their trickiest plays in this free-scoring game. A thriller ’til the final gun, the game will be ours. The score will be Notre Dame 21, Georgia Tech 13.”
Senior Jack Jaegar, Geneva, Illinois: “Notre Dame should take Tech by 27-0. But, as Major Elliott would say, ‘On the other hand, maybe we won’t’.”
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 11) partner happens to be that cute blonde framed on his desk.
A junior in Business Administration, Coleman looks forward to a position in the executive end of the steel industry,
and he has worked many summers in the steel mills doing heavy work, and learning the different steps and processes from mining through manufacturing. He is now enrolled in the V-5 program and is awaiting call to active duty. Last semester he joined the E.R.C. but was one of the very few who was allowed to transfer to the Naval Air Corps Reserve program. Although he expects to finish this semester as a civilian, he knows that -it will not be too long before he is called to action.
Herb’s mother and her three sisters were athletes of the first class. They played on a semi-pro baseball team around Pittsburgh: his mother played shortstop, and his aunts pitched, caught and played first. Herb recalls pleasantly the trips he used to take with the team as he travelled with them and acted as their mascot and bat-boy.
Not so pleasant are his memories of the time he fell off a railing and plunged 10 feet into the cellar-pit of an apartment house. Luckily he landed on his head, and aside from suffering half an hour of oblivion, and a dented area which even now is as hollow as the underside of a saucer, or the bottom of an expensive wine bottle, he came through unscratched.
Now a 203 pound, 5'—" blocking center, the quiet, likeable, unassuming Herb Coleman looks forward to a successful season, but warns that “out of the first five teams of the country, we play five: Army, Georgia Tech, Navy, Michigan, and Northwestern, and therefore there will be some tough games ahead which will tax every bit of our resources.”
Even with Georgia Tech’s 20-7 victory over a strong North Carolina team, Coleman believes that we will win tomorrow. Along with any other Notre Dame man, Coleman does not believe that we can be beaten. With that kind of spirit it is going to be a tough job losing. “Georgia Tech is one of the best teams in the country but no N.D. man ever thinks that we can be beaten, and I am no exception. We’ll be out there to win tomorrow.”
IRISH SMOTHER PITT (Continued from page 10) Creighton Miller slashed through the Pitt line for four yards and the first touchdown. This came after the Irish had recovered a fumble on the Panther 35 and started marching.
Miller also chalked up the second touchdown, whisking off his right tackle untouched and traveling 40 yards for the longest run of the day. The third score was of the spur-of-the-moment variety
Have a Coca-Cola = Howdy, Neighbor
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bena
___ ©1943 The C-C -
from Arizona to Australia
At home or abroad, when the American soldier says Have a “Coke” to a stranger, he’s made a new buddy. From Minneap, olis to Melbourne, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes —has become the mark of the good neighbor.
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
the global high-sign
|Hia>u
18
with Bertelli scooping up Kulbitski’s fumble on the Pitt 2 yard marker and scampering around his right end to tally.
Bob Pallidino, who suffered a dislocated elbow in the third quarter, and Ryko-vich, a double scorer, accounted for other tallies as the game became a rout.
Clark Shaughnessy’s material was limited to 17-year-olds, a few service rejectees and engineering deferred stu
dents. They lack the experience and selfconfidence of a great club at present, but under the skilled guidance of Shag should develop into a representative eleven. The line, backboned by lads fresh from high school football, did stop one Irish series on their one yard line. Against the Notre Dame ball toters, Ry-kovich, Lujack and Hanlon, this feat is not to be underestimated.
Notre Dame veiled its attack, using but the simplest of “T” plays. The vast difference in score was the result of the difference of basic football ability. Against a rattled Panther defense only six passes were thrown. Notre Dame clearly proved herself the better team on the field. What she will do against more powerful opponents is yet to be seen.
"I’VE SCUTTLED MY PEN TROUBLES WITH PARKER QUINK? THE SOLV-X IN IT PROTECTS METAL AND RUBBER. THAT'S VITAL NOW WHEN PENS AND REPAIR PARTS ARE SO TERRIBLY SCARCE"
pens is increasing
"TJROTECT your pen, or you may have to do without!’7 says Unde Sam.
Government rulings have radically cut production of all fountain pens—especially first-choice brands. Repair parts, too, are dwindling.
Now is the time to switch to protective Parker Quink. Smooth-writing, brilliant. It’s the only ink with solv-x.
Solv-x stops most pen troubles before they start. It prevents metal corrosion'and the wrecking of rubber caused by high-acid inks. Solv-x ends dogging and gumming... deans your pen as it writes!
Parker Quink with Solv-x is ideal for steel pens, too! The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, and Toronto, Canada.
SOLV-X
1. Protects rubber... lengthens the life of sac or diaphragm.
2. Dissolves sediment and gum left by other inks. Cleans vour pen as it writes.
3. Prevents dogging of feed.
4. Safeguards base metal parts...
S. Assures quick starting and even flow at all tunes.
FOR V--------MAIL "Micro-film Black.” Parker Quink in "Microfilm Black" photographs perfectly! It is jet-black—ideal for every use. Quink comes in 7 permanent colors: Micro-film Black, Blue-Black, Royal Blue, Green, Violet, Brown, Red. 2 washable colors: Black, Blue. Family size, 25£. Other sizes, 15$ and up.
MAKE YOUR DOLLARS FIGHT—BUY WAR BONDS NOW!
PARKER Quink
THE ONLY INK CONTAINING SOLV-X
Ou/nA

Copr. 1943 by The Parker Pen Company
19
ATTENTION!
Navy Of ficers - in - Training
You can't drill in uncomfortable shoes. Here is real quality and foot comfort that complies with regulations in your proper size.
Exclusive representative for NETTLETON — CROSBY SQUARE — WALK-OVER — FOOT JOY — STACY ADAM — MATRIX and Q-N SHOES
X-RAY FITTED BY EXPERTS
120 South Michigan Street
20
"New World" Features
Short Story by Flannery, '23
A short story by Harry Flannery, ’23, is featured in the current issue of New World magazine. Mr. Flannery, a newspaperman, former Columbia Broadcasting System representative in Berlin and author of the best-selling book, Assign-
Harry Flannery, '23
ment to Berlin, is in Hollywood. He is one of numerous men trained in the Notre Dame department of journalism achieving distinction in journalism, radio and publicity.
Among others wrell known because of their current activities are Francis Wallace, a classmate of Mr. Flannery, newspaper feature writer, novelist, short story writer, scenario writer and sports authority; Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame faculty, whose short stories have been warmly praised by distinguished critics; Harry Sylvester, essayist, novelist and short story writer; James S. Kearns, Chicago Sun sports columnist; William C. Fay, former Chicago Tribune sports and feature writer, and Walter Trohan, in the Washington bureau of the Chicago Tribune.
Other Flannery contemporaries at
Notre Dame were Paul Mallon, one of the most widely syndicated Washington columnists; Clifford B. Ward, managing editor, Fort Wayne Neius-Sentinel, and Thomas F. Coman, former Associated Press labor reporter in Washington, now on the staff of David Lawrence’s United States News.
(Continued from page 13) IRISH FACE FIRST BIG TEST
star, Joe Prokop, Eddie scampered 81 yards for a tally against North Carolina. Wilbur Stein, Mickey Logan and Ed Scharfschwerdt complete a backfield adept at the now-you-have-it, now-you-don’t tactics of the Golden Tornado.
Pitt Debacle No Test
Against what Clark Shaughnessy so tersely called his “good high school team” the Notre Dame “T” gained ground in every series. Using 34 men of a 35 man travelling squad, Coach Leahy attempted to sponge up an uneven match. While but seven basic plays were unveiled at Pitt, these were more than enough to bleed the anemic Panther. Georgia Tech, however, will try the resourcefulness of Irish signal callers. Play tomorrow -will probably find the Irish taking to the air on the accurate arms of Bertelli and Lujack. Against our “T” last fall the Yellowjackets lined an adequate ground defense and strung up an anti-pass net that temporarily stalled our attack by air.
The probable starting backfield of Bertelli, Lujack, Rykovich and Mello will seek to further their high scoring ways.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from. Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
The Springfield Rifle—feeding, faking, flinging—should drop his six point blockbusters with the telling precision of the past. Creighton Miller, star of last week’s encounter and perhaps Notre Dame’s outstanding candidate for All-American
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00 Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
Pants Shirts N. D. Blankets
Sonneborn’s Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
J. BURKE
W, G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
S0UTHnSeHOR[
J
21
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEFEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
Maa?
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
mention, will not start, but shall be held under wraps till the outset of the first march. The outcome of this duel between the flying Irish backs and the rocky Tech line will spell defeat or victory for Notre Dame. Watch for a test between the pitching of Bertelli and the running of Prokop.
Down behind the ball, across the line of scrimmage from the Southern hearties will be the Green wave that smothered Pitt ball carriers. The line play at the Smoky City of the students of Moose Krause and Hughie Devore was effective to the nth degree. Consistently opening coal truck holes for the backs, they played a two way game, often smashing Panther backs for ten and 15 yard losses. Even against the Pride of the South those seven sturdy blocks should crash through to another triumph. Li-mont, White, Captain Filley, Coleman, Signaigo, Czarobski and Yonakor will respond to the call for starters.
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame have a potentially powerful football team. Tomorrow they will clash with a proven foe, one of Dixie’s foremost gridiron giants. Should Bill Alexander, smothered by his sportsmanlike grin, cross Cartier Field after the tilt to congratulate Frank Leahy and his winning team, we at Notre Dame can be assured our Irish are a national threat—a threat to Michigan eight days hence.
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
N. D. Jewelry
Ladies Miniature
Notre Dame Rings Ready for Christmas
Order Now!
Official Navy Stationery '
Toilet Articles Supplies
Daily Rosary Devotions
During October for Peace
During the month of October, the month the Church dedicates to the Holy Rosary, Benediction and the recital of the Rosary will be held every night, Monday through Friday, in the Sacred Heart Church at 6:30. The October Devotions will begin this evening. On Saturday the devotion will be held at 11:00 in the Lady Chapel of the Church, and on Sunday one benediction will be held at 7:00 for all students.
The primary intention of the devotions is peace, as also for the Notre Dame men in service. It has been traditional in the past to have daily adoration of the Blessed Sacrament, but the practice has been made impossible this year because of war-time conditions on the campus.	•
Rosaries can be secured at the pamphlet racks and in the office of the Chaplains. All the rosaries are blessed and richly indulgenced with the Apostolic, Bridgettine, Crosier, and the Way of the Cross indulgences.
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
22
GEORGIA TECH STAGED UPSET
(Continued from page 13)
North Carolina was not the result of the application of material sent here by the Navy as press reports have led readers to believe, but the hard work of a bunch of young, inexperienced, well coached players who fought to win.
Late labs, shots in arms, fleet scares, eating schedules, pay days, tough scholastic schedules, and many other compli-
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management of
Josie and Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe 601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
Divry’s Handy SPANISH-ENGLISH and ENGLISH-SPANISH DICTIONARY By J. Douglas, Ph.D. and A. Lomo, Ph.D.
The most complete, reliable and up-to-date pocket Dictionary, listing all Spanish and English words in current use — over 60,000 — including many of the latest technical, scientific and military terms. Also contains Elements of Grammar, full list of irregular Verbs, Cities with their populations. Colored Maps, etc. Indispensable to students, translators, business men, etc. 536 pages, 3% x 6%, flexible leatherette binding. Postpaid $2.00; with Indexes $2.50. On sale at leading bookstores.
D.	C. DIVRY, Inc., Publishers. 240 W. 23rd St., New York
cations expected on a war campus have held practice far behind schedule, as is probably the case at most other schools. Although lacking a lot of practice due to absence from spring practice, the team as a whole has a well balanced attack with emphasis on passing, a powerful line, but a green, slower backfield.
The “Rambling Recks” board a Pullman Friday night headed for South Bend and will arrive about 10:00 Saturday morning. Saturday night the players hop another train headed south and will pull into Atlanta early Sunday morning. The days of arriving at the opponent’s town a day before the game and getting a good night’s sleep in a fine hotel are out for the duration.
The Fighting Irish will probably be favored over the southern gridmen by the typewriter experts. North Carolina was rated to beat Tech by most sport writers, including this correspondent. North Carolina had three teams of material with more ability than Tech’s first eleven. The fact that we failed to consider was that Coach Alexander, who saw his 24th consecutive team race on the field Saturday as head football mentor here, is going to put out a team that will give anybody’s outfit plenty of trouble. It wasn’t power that beat the Carolina team, headwork was the deciding factor.
Tech has no Castleberry now. A victory would be possible only through the cooperative efforts of all the “average” players.
Coach Alex is, as usual, worried about the outcome of the game. He well knows the power of this year’s V-12 strengthened Notre Dame outfit.
A typical Notre Dame-Tech battle is expected. An exciting, colorful, hard-fought, smartly played game with a close final score is our only prediction.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M.D.
23
: M Adleb Co. =
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTORS OF
THE NEW REGULATION
$
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
GommiAAfjotteti Q^lce^f
We carry complete stocks, at all times, of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices.
The Finest in Men's Apparel
Fashion Park
Botany Ties
Worsted-Tex .r. . Alpacuna Suits and Coats
Bostonian and Mansfield Shoes
and Van Heusen Shirts ... Knox Navy Hats .
. . Arrow
West-
minster and Interwoven Hose ... Meyers Gloves . . . Hickok Belts . . . B.V.D.'s
DROP IN AND VISIT OUR NAVY STORE Checks cashed without charge.
$ ft ft tETtt/
M‘X ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy outfitters Just across the street from downtown bus terminal