' The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918J
Volume LXVIII	April 5, 1935	No. 22
PAULIST CHOIR TO
SING HERE APRIL 8
FRANK H. SPEARMAN, NOTED AUTHOR, RECEIVES LAETARE MEDAL FOR 1935
The Paulist Choir of Chicago, under the direction of the Reverend Eugene O’Malley, C.S.P., will give a concert on Monday, April 8, at 8:00 o’clock in Washington Hall.
The choir is composed of seventy-five men and boys ranging from six to sixty years of age. It has always been a favorite of music lovers at Notre Dame and South Bend as well as throughout the rest of the country, for this outstanding musical group has performed over the radio and at the larger churches of the nation.
This organization presents a program of both ecclesiastical and secular selections, the ecclesiastical being the predominating.
Whether it be a large radio broadcast or a concert in a small church this male vocal aggregation has always left a fine musical reputation.
Among other fine compositions, audiences have been particularly thrilled by Palestrina’s “Sanctus,” which is considered one of the finest religious, musical pieces. Of this music Father O’Malley says, “Palestrina ranks as one of the greatest composers because his music, expressing the doctrine of the Divine Presence, lacking the human sensuous appeal characteristic of modern music, is mystical, ethereal, and spiritual.”
Bengal Bouts Statement
The statement of income and expense of the Bengal Boxing show held on March 22, 1935, follows:
Receipts: 1,906 tickets @ 25c.......—$476.50
Expenditures:
*Prizes ______________________$35.00
Equipment __________________ 25.10
Tickets ____________________ 32.00
Posters _____________________ 7.50
Police Service ______________ 5.00
Miscellaneous ______________ 14.00
Total Expenditures --------$119.50	119.50
Balance $357.00
4Runners-up sweaters. Heavy sweaters for winners were donated.
eApril 5, 1935
Board of Publications Announces Call For
Editorial Aspirants
The Faculty Board of Publications will receive applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of the following publications for the scholastic year 1935-36: The Scholastic, the Dome and Scrip.
Applicants must state in writing their qualifications, experience, academic rating, and qualitative average. Letters should be addressed and mailed to the chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than 4:00 o’clock in the afternoon of April 26.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
Post Office Notice
Postal Laws and Regulations require clerks to be on duty 44 hours each week, and restrict their work to four hours on Saturdays. Where the needs of the service require a clerk to work more than four hours on Saturday, he must be allowed compensatory time on some other day of the week. As there is almost an entire suspension of business at the University on Saturday afternoons, the service of one or more clerks can be dispensed with more easily on that day than on any other. Therefore, effective Saturday April 6, 1935, and on all Saturdays thereafter, window service will be discontinued at 2:00 p.m. for the remainder of the day.
Mails will be received and dispatched as usual, and the lobby will be left open for the benefit of box holders, but the money order, stamp, registry, and parcel post windows will be closed.
Economics Majors
The comprehensive examination for seniors with a major in economics will be held next Thursday, April 11, at 12:45 p.m. in Rooms 219 and 227 Main Building. The examination will cover the principles and problems of economics and distributive justice.
OUTSTANDING CATHOLIC
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
The name of Frank H. Spearman, Californian novelist and well known writer, can now be added to that long list of Laetare Medal winners, which
Frank H. Spearman
He joins a distinguished company^
numbers among others, the Hon. Alfred E. Smith, the late Edward N. Hurley, John McCormack, and Dr. Albert F. Zahm. The Laetare Medal, which is conferred each year by the University for outstanding services rendered society by some Catholic laymen, was given this year to Mr. Spearman because of his literary accomplishments.
In conferring the award, the committee said: “Frank H. Spearman has been selected by the University of Notre Dame as recipient of Laetare medal for 1935 in recognition of his distinction as a Catholic layman and of his service to the country in the volumes of interesting and wholesome fiction he has produced through many years for a large reading public. This award will have the hearty approval of all who are acquainted with the (Continued on Page 4)
One
HundredslMourn Death Of Reverend John Cavanaugh
BISHOP NOLL GIVES
EULOGY AT FUNERAL
PRESIDENT FOR 15 YEARS
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
The Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, died in the Community Infirmary on March 23 at the age of 64.
Nationally known as an illustrious educator, a powerful writer, and a brilliant orator Notre Dame suffers
Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh R. I. P.
in his passing the loss of one of her most valiant sons and devoted servants. The legions of friends and admirers who assembled to offer their last respects testify in beautiful fashion the love and esteem they bore this splendid religious. The death of Father Cavanaugh removes one of the University’s most able men, a man who unstintingly gave his life and great natural ability to her growth and development.
Father Cavanaugh was. president of Notre Dame from 1904 to 1919. His executive incumbency is an admirable record of his sterling qualities as an administrator. During his fifteen years as president, which was the longest term of any Notre Dame president, excepting that of the venerable founder of the University, the Rev Edward Sorin, C.S.C., Notre Dame experienced a period of great expansion. The student enrollment was greatly increased, Walsh Hall was erected, the old postoffice, which was a grant of Henry Clay in 1851, was torn down to make room for a larger one, and finally, a library was constructed.
Because he was the outstanding Catholic orator of the day, Notre Dame was brought into greater prominence and for a score of years his own magnetic personality and diversified public contacts spread her glory. On the campus his commanding bearing and kindly paternal manner completely captured the love, re-(Continued on Page 16)
Vice President Praises Work and Career of Fr. John Cavanaugh
In the death of the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame has lost one of her most distinguished sons. Never from the beginning, has this school had a more passionate lover, one more generous of her honor, more proud of her achievements, more representative of her ideals. His personality, his culture, his golden speech, his warm affection, his sunny humor and ready wit, drew from every corner of this country, and of the world generally, the great and the lowly, to make them friends and admirers of Notre Dame. His contribution to the growth and development of the University can only be evaluated with the passing of the years.
There are no alumni, I feel sure, who have had the privilege of attending Notre Dame during his presidency, but cherish some intimate memory — a word of encouragement, or sympathy, or inspiration—that has influenced indelibly their lives. There is no priest or brother of his religious community who has enjoyed the privileges of his friendship, who has not found in it stimulation and encouragement.
Another aspect of the life of Father Cavanaugh, only the poor, the sick, and the distressed, can adequately express. Quietly, cheerfully, but energetically, he gave his best efforts to lift the burden of the poor, to comfort and console and counsel those whom the world had used hardly; and he found a satisfying reward in the joy that lighted faces that had too long been dark with discouragement and despair.
The memory of his fine example will long be a benediction in the lives of those who knew him as a benefactor or a friend.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Vice President, University of Notre Dame
Roosevelt Telegram
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Have just learned with profound regret of the passing of Father John Cavanaugh. Mrs. Roosevelt joins me in extending to his associates and friends our heartfelt sympathy in their great sorrow.
Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The following is the complete text of the sermon preached at the funeral of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., by the Right Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., on March 26, 1935.
“I am the resurrection and the life.”—John 11, 21.
Only by way of exception to a tradition and a rule of the Holy Cross Congregation may a sermon be preached at the obsequies of a member- of that Congregation. The exception, in this instance, does not nullify that tradition or that rale.
Many of you who are present this morning to pay a last tribute of respect to Father Cavanaugh’s memory probably knew him, under some aspects, better than I. But I have known him better in other respects. My acquaintance with him dates back nearly 40 years. This acquaintance grew steadily into warm friendship.
You knew him as the genial gentleman, the scatterer of sunshine, in whose pleasant warmth and rays you regaled and were made happy in his mirth. You knew him as a professor and as president of Notre Dame University, as the erudite and profound scholar, as the wise counsellor, as a builder of character, as an unusual administrator. You know him as an orator of extraordinary ability.
I knew him in all these capacities, but I also knew him as an editor, whose facile pen, steered by a brilliant intellect, wrote not only beautifully, interestingly, and entertainingly in the purest English, but convincingly.
I knew him as the serious religious, intent primarily on his own personal sanctification; as a religious bound irrevocably to his God by the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience; by vow’s which made him humble, diffident of self, detached from the world, and which stimulated him to the pursuit of higher things; vow’s built on principles whose general recognition would cure all the ills to which our material-minded, pleasure-mad, and law-defiant generation is subject.
I knew him as the priest, officially “another Christ,” filled w’ith the spirit of Christ, with Christ’s love for all mankind, and with Christ’s zeal for the Father’s glory. He cherished his priesthood, not because of the dignity to which it elevated him—knowing well that this dignity imposed on him correlative responsibilities, but because hs priesthood identified him with Christ, with the mission of Christ.
Father Cavanaugh had no personal enemies, but regarded the enemies of God and of Christianity as his own enemies, and to all their charges he had one answer which he believed to be all-sufficient. It was, “Show me your fruits.” Yes, we could answer, show me a single accomplishment or achievement comparable in the slightest of degree to those of xthe institution which you oppose. Show me a civilization you have cultured, a republic you have founded, a cathedral you have erected, a service station you have built for the sick, or the aged, or the poor, the widow’, the orphan, the outcast. Show me the art you have developed, your masterpieces in painting, or sculpture, or music, or architecture. To your credit belong only the French Revolution, the Bolshevism of Russia with all its horrors, the diabolic satanism behind the Mexican perse-- (Continued on Page 9)
The Scholastic
4
T VO
► SENIORS UNCERTAIN
Professor Shane Leslie Announces
ABOUT BALL CHAIRMAN Plans For Production of “Hamlet”

“DIRECTOR OF ACTIVITIES”
Thomas G. Proctor, president of the senior class, yesterday announced that Joseph Argus, treasurer of the class, would be “director of activities” for the senior ball. As director Argus will act as the leader of and spokesman for the group of officers who will fun the dance and the general committee which will assist the officers.
By Paul Foley
Rumbles of difficulty seem to be the first notes sounded in the fanfare to hearld this year’s Senior- Ball. Chairman are born and die daily, committees are drawn up, altered, and finally shelved altogether under the pressure of factional politics.
The upshot of the first skirmishes has been a new departure in the appointment of heads of the affair. The class officers, Thomas Proctor, president; Norb Hart, vice president; Frank Shay, secretary, and Joe Argus treasurer, at the recommendation of the faculty dance board, are running the affair.
In lieu of appointing a poltical wheel-horse to the general chairmanship, the officers have drawn up plans for a committee of 11 or more men to assist them in the actual management of the affair.
Camille Gravel, who led Proctor’s forces in the election last spring, was originally scheduled for the general chairmanship but difficulties arose that shifted the attention of the officers from him to Ray Oakes. After his brief appearance in the complicated picture the spotlight was focused for a time on Ray Broderick.
With the eleven man committee, which may grow even larger, still in its formative state, many names are being mentioned for its roster, including nearly all of Proctor’s active supporters, some non-partisan bystanders and even Thomas Thompson, who ran against Proctor for. the presidency, and Thompson’s manager, James Shiels.
With the committee growing daily, and the prospect of a Grand March composed solely of chairmen, the problem of satisfying the many clamoring factions is still far from its solution.
With May 10 still more than a month away the officers are convinced that before the opening strains of the music sounds the affair will have the honor of being the “Most Chairmaned Dance in History.”
March Issue of “Lawyer” Contains Five Articles
By Legal Leaders
Notre Dame lawyers will find much to interest them in the March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer which was distributed last week. The journal, one of the best of its kind, is edited by Joseph A. McCabe and John A.
Prof William D. Rollinson He helps McCabe and Berry.
Berry. Prof. William D. Rollinson is faculty adviser.
Five feature articles form the nu-cleous of the current issue. “Diversity Jurisdiction” by Professor William Sternberg, School of Law, Creighton University, is an article which considers the arguments for and against the proposed congressional legislation that is designed to abolish diversity of citizenship justification in the federal courts.
“An Analysis of a Notion of Juristic Personality” by the Hon. Leonidas Pitamic should attract much interest. Pitamic is envoy extraordinary and minister pleni potentiary from Jugoslavia to the United States. He has written several books and was formerly professor of constitutional law in the Ljubljana University.
Professor William Hedley of Northeastern University and formerly professor of law at Notre Dame, is the author of a contribution, “Rigid Legal Theories With Contractual Illustrations.” The fourth feature article is “Lincoln Conspiracy Trial — Mysterious Phases” by Prof. John W. Curran of the College of Law, De Paul Universitv. The author in this
(Continued on Page 8)
CHANGE PROPOSED SITE
In a preliminary meeting in the north Library basement Thursday evening, March 28, Shane Leslie outlined his tentative plans for Notre Dame’s first attempt at experimental theatre productions. Shakespeare’s “Hamlet,” which Mr. Leslie plans to present this spring, will be staged with many devices new in modern drama.
Although sixty students and faculty members attended the first meeting, Mr. Leslie expressed the hope that future meetings, to be held in the library each Thursday night, would attract everyone interested in the production. Mr. Leslie classified the support desired as (1.) those interested in the production scholastically, for the play itself; (2.) Dramatically, in the silent acting; (3.) Vocally, in the elocution presentation; and (4.) technically, in any of the various problems that must be solved in a presentation of this type. •
Two of Mr. Leslie’s ideas caught the fancy of his audience. Fundamentally, he described the innovation of separating the action and the elocution, having one cast put on the silent show, and anothei* group synchronize the lines with the action. Moreover, he intends to train multiple casts for each function, two or three students taking each part in both casts.
In this way Mr. Leslie hopes to utilize the very best in dramatic and forensic ability that the campus has to offer. While superiority of both talents is rare in the same person, his method of presentation will insure strength in both for every character.
In his presentation, Professor Leslie wishes to get away from the feeble ■ amateurish reproduction of the professional play, which results so often in college productions. Neither does he plan a perfectly accurate, or a streamlined, modernized production, such as has been popular in recent years.	•
Continuous action, will be another feature of the presentation as now planned, in ordei* to compress the play into a suitable period of time. Following the custom of Shakespeare’s day, more emphasis will be laid on dress and action, than on scenery and properties, leaving the latter to the imagination of the audience. This naturally cuts down the time between acts, and eliminates numerous changes.
Although the side for the play was formerly announced as the stadium, Mr. Leslie’s experience with the local (Continued on Page 6)
cApril 5, 1935
Three
ENGINEERS WILL BOLD FORMAL ON NAY 3RD
Slide rules, math books, and blueprints will be forgotten on the evening of Friday, May .3, as the Engineers and their guests will dance at their annual formal, to be held this year in the Palais Royale. Edward G. LeJeune, chairman of the affair,
Edward G. LeJeune
He rooms with the president.
announced this week that while no orchestra has been selected as yet, Clyde McCoy, Charlie Agnew, and Tweet Hogan are under consideration.	.
While traditionally, the Engineers Formal is open only to members of the Engineering club, each member is privileged to invite a fellow student, including members of the Freshman class.
The chairman of the various committees are: Tickets, Mitchell Saleh; Publicity, Adair Barlow; Decorations, James Reville; Patrons, W. Gorgan; Arrangements, William Bernard; Re-• ception, Victor Weignand; Music, George Foss; Invitations, M. Sagartz.
LAETARE MEDAL
(Continued from Page 1)
work of this manly American novelist.”
Like many other well-known authors, Mr. Spearman got his start in the journalistic field. Eventually he turned to the novel as a medium of expression, and produced several works which have ranked high in literary quality and in popularity. His most popular work, Whispering Smith, is familiar to many readers in several lands. Other works by the same author include, Nerve of Foley, Dr. Bryson, Robert Kimberly, Marriage Verdict, Spanish Lover, and several others. .
Critics are of the opinion that . Robert Kimberly is the nearest expression of his Catholic mind. It is an excellent defense of the sanctity of marriage from the Catholic point of view.
Not only has Mr. Spearman used his pen to entertain his reading public, but he has also written a purely practical work called Strategy of Great Railroads. In this book, which is regarded as one of the finest treatments of the subject and is used as a
F our
DOCTOR JAMES J. WALSH SPEAKS TO STUDENTS IN WASH HALL
Dr. James J. Walsh, a lecturer familiar to Notre Dame students since . 1905, again returned to the stage of Washington Hall Monday night, April 1, speaking on the subject: “South America and Mexico.”
Properly to understand events as they are currently happening in Mexico, Dr. Walsh pointed out that it is essential to remember that Mexico is not really a white man’s country.
Another important factor to remember, Dr. Walsh further pointed out, is that the Mexicans for the last one hundred years have been held in ignorance by a government whose power depends largely on this ignorance. During the three centuries since the founding of the University of Mexico, in 1551, the Catholic Church was largely, responsible for the steady growth of a lasting culture in Mexico. '
The second part of his talk which Dr. Walsh devoted to a description of Buenos Aires and the Eucharistic Congress was also especially interesting. Buenos Aires is one of the most progressive and beautiful cities of the world, stated Dr. Walsh, but even with these qualities in its favor there was some apprehension as to whether' the Eucharistic Congress held there would compare favorably with those held at Chicago and Dublin. The Congress was a great success, however, not only in point of attendance but in the intense religious spirit shown by the Catholics of Latin-America.
In his closing words Dr. Walsh again touched on the Mexican situation, saying that the Mexicans were an intensively Catholic people, and with the rise of intellectual leadership amongst them, they would soon wrest the freedom, which they deserve, from their oppressors.
standard reference for students of economics, he gives a critical history of transportation and its development in the United States.
The great novelist was born in Buffalo, N. Y., Sept. 6, 1859, and was educated at Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis. He has also received an honorary degree of LL.D, from Notre Dame in 1917 and a similar award from Santa Clara University of California in 1924.
■ The author, a gentle, quiet man, is at present living a rather secluded life in Hollywood. He is the father of four living children, a girl and three boys, one of whom, is the Rev. Arthur D. Spearman, S.J.
The Laetare medal will probably be presented to Mr. Spearman at the commencement exercises in June.
PROFESSORS SPEAK FROM CANPUS STATION
In the continuation of a series of late afternoon programs broadcast from the studio in the Engineering building over Station WSBT Profes-
Professor Norbert Engels He spoke on dueling.
sor Norbert Engels of the English Department spoke Monday, April 1, at 4:30 on the “Story of Duelling.”
“Duels have in the past,” said Pro- I fessor Engels, “often been fought to determine the innocence or guilt of a person on trial for anything from treason to infidelity to a woman. The defendant frequently challenged the plaintiff, the witnesses, or the judge, and the ensuing duel was held before high dignitaries and fought with whatever weapons were in popular use during that particular period.”
On one occasion, according to Professor Engels, a couple of the O’Connors engaged in a duel in which, after- several hours of combat, the head of Patrick was hacked off and presented to the high dignitary who had come out with his entire retinue to watch the proceedings. The apparent horror of this tale was somewhat relieved by the humorous tone in which it was related.
After mentioning several ways of honorably avoiding a duel when challenged, Professor Engels concluded with the recital of a short, humorous _ poem by Hood on the subject of duelling.	.
In the eighth afternoon broadcast from the campus studio of WSBT in the Engineering building on March 22, the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist, spoke on the archive collection of Notre Dame.	.
Father McAvoy stated that the erection of the new Archives building in Washington, and the establishment of a national archivist has aroused a new national interest in this work. -After sketching the outline of the . word archive, Father McAvoy gave an example of what an archive collection usually contains by enumerating as specimens contained in the Archives building in Washington, documents, letters, minutes of meeti-ings, copies of letters, maps, schedules, diagrams, and newspaper clip-
. pings.
The Scholastic
. NET CLUB VOTES TO TAX ALL “MEMBERS”
MONOGRAM CLUB WORKS ON PRODUCTION OF ABSURDITIES
After almost three months incubation in various committees, plans, counter-plans, stormy meetings, and hastily posted bulletins, the Metropolitan Club last Sunday took its first definite step toward the ransoming of the step-child — its omnipresent deficit.
Sunday’s meeting, called by the S. ' A. C., summoned by name those who . are considered members of the organization, in order that they might express their attitude on a system of self - assessment to clear up the §480.00 red figure that has been gracing the club’s accounts.
The meeting, held in the basement of the Library, was attended by a group variously reported to number anywhere from 65 to 150, the most logical estimate, that given by Phil Purcell, Chairman of the S.A.C. Cam- . | pus Clubs committee, was that about 70 to 75 were present.
After appeals by President Andrew Maffei, who pointed out the fact that the Metropolitan Club would be forced out of existence if the debt is not liquidated, and by Phil Purcell, who asked for action by the members, a vote was taken to establish the sentiment of the meeting with regard to a vountary self-assessment on the part of members.
Although, according to officials of the meeting, the vote was not counted or tabulated for future reference, the measure carried by an unquestioned majority.
While the action of the meeting-is apparently clear-cut and definite the new problem was created as to who actually make up the membership of the famed Metropolitan Club.
Because no constitution, no set of • by-laws, no credentials of any kind apparently exist for the establishment of the club’s roster, the S.A.C. was forced to accept an arbitrary list of 151 names who, by action of the ■ meeting, are to be charged with the . payment of §3.15 each.
The list shows aproximatelyp 60 paid members of the organization, that is, those who fulfilled the requirement of twenty-five cents per year dues, and are consequently entitled to be classed as members in good standing. Of the remainder some of the men listed participated in last year’s election, some are supposed to have attended meetings and participated in the functions of. the organization. Some, however, are known to have no actual connection with the organization, while one man is actually a member in good standing of the Capital District Club.
Phil Purcell, acting in capacity of spokesman for the S.A.C., made it
eApril 5, 1935
Imagine the hairy-chested Harry Becker prancing and bouncing on the none-too-substantial boards of Washington Hall; picture the same Becker and the high-jumping Vince Murphy in a burlesque of “The Man on the Flying Trapeze.”
Harry Becker He will prance and bounce.
These two spectacles are only two of the attractions to be offered in the Monogram Club jamboree on Sunday and Monday evenings, May 5 and 6.
The Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., will lend his invaluable aid as faculty supervisor of the pageant.
Hank Pojman, Paul Schrenker, George Wentworth, and Ken Stilley will offer a throbbing, heart-rending version of “Little Nell.” Rocky Schir-alli is to repeat his pleasing pep talk, which he delivered at the Villagers Club football banquet. Popular songs will be rendered by an Italian group —Tony Mazziotti, Fred Carideo, Rocky Schiralli, and Sonny Church.
Jack Edwards is handling the advertising, George Demetrio the music, George Shields stage effects and lighting. Ticket sale, -will be managed by Dick Pfefferle, costuming by Wayne Millner.	.
Music Department
The Music Department offers three musicales during April in Washington Hall. The first, Wednesday evening, on the tenth, is a recital of two-piano music played by students of Professor Willard L. Groom. Included in the performers are Brothers Sigismund, Francis Borgia, Remigius, and Elmo, Messieurs Boyle, Staunton. Mullen, Sauter, Bayer, and Gruenen-f eld er.
known that anyone having what he considers a real objection to paying the assessment may file these objections in written form with him.
University officials when informed Wednesday morning by The Scholastic of the action of the meeting, made it definitely known that the assessment is not to be considered an official University obligation, but that it is merely a device established by the club itself to pay off its obligations.	.
MR. LESLIE RESUMES SERIES OF LECTURES
MR. LESLIE’S LECTURES
April 9—The Irish Epic.
April 16—Four Real Ghost Stories.
“Compared to Agamemnon, HamTet is like a weak echo down the corridors of time,” said Shane Leslie last Tuesday evening in his lecture on the ‘Greek Tragedy.’ Of all the gifts of the Greeks to later civilizations, the tragedy is the greatest. Mr. Leslie studied Greek tragedy under Professor Mahaffey and more important still, under the late Walter Headlam at Cambridge.
In outlining Agamemnon, Mr. Leslie stated that the actors on the Greek stage were unknown to the audience since they appeared in masks. Always in the background, carrying along the story, was the chorus chanting the entrancing poetry.
Agamemnon is written in the form of a trilogy, each unit of the trilogy representing a complete part of the story. , In - the first part, the father of Agamemnon kills his brother’s children, and causes his brother to eat their flesh. As a result, a curse is put upon the father of Agamemnon which is to exist through two generations of the family.
The curse reverts to Agamemnon and his brother. The men of Troy carry off the beautiful Helen and her sister. Agamemnon and his brother, Menelaus, mobilize the youth of Greece and attack Troy. After ten years, Troy falls, and Agamemnon, victorious, prepares to return to Greece.
He brings with him Cassandra, a Trojan beauty seduced by Apollo, who had given her the power of prophecy, but had cursed her so that no one would ever believe her prophecies. Agamemnon’s wife, Clytem-nestra, has been unfaithful, and now plots to murder Agamemnon. Cassandra foretells Agamemnon’s death and her own. Clytemnestra, the greatest villainess in drama, kills both Agamemnon and Cassandra, who is the greatest minor character in drama.
In the second unit of the trilogy, Orestes, son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra murders his mother to avenge his father. In the third and last part, Orestes is forgiven by the goddess Athena to whom he had prayed, and so the family is released from the curse.	.
Fir e
FR. D’ARCY TO SPEAK
AT N.D. THIS MONTH
Reverend Martin Cyril D’Arcy, S.J., well-known philosopher and writer, will lectux-e in Washington Hall on Friday, April 26.
Father D’Arcy is a graduate of Oxford and for many years has been a lecturer in Philosophy at his alma mater. He has also been Master of Campion Hall, Oxford, since 1933.
After having received his M.A. degree Father D’Arcy was ordained in 1921. He attended Gregorian University in Rome.
In 1923 he was the recipient of the Green Moral Philosophy Prize. Father D’Arcy is a writer of many noteworthy books pertaining to the Catholic faith and philosophy.
Besides being a constant contributor to the Hibbert Journal, Criterion and numerous Catholic periodicals, Father D’Arcy has many books to his credit. Outstanding among the latter are, “The Idea of God,” “The Mass and Redemption,” “Catholicism.” “Christ as Priest and Redeemer,” “The Spirit of Charity,” “Thomas Aquinas,” “The Nature of Belief,” and “God and the Universe,” (part author).
LESLIE PRODUCTION
(Continued from Page 3)
weather suggested the idea of holding it indoors, on a mammoth stage in the gymnasium. No decision has been reached as yet, but several other spots around the campus are under consideration.
Mr. Leslie is at present revising the play as it was originally written, dropping one or two very minor characters, and as many unnecessary scenes as possible. He stated that his intention was to reset Hamlet, not to reinterprit it.
Before he closed the inaugural meeting, Mr. Leslie took a rough census of those who thought they could act better than they could speak, and vice versa. At the next • meeting, several professors of the department of speech will be present to take over the direction and coaching of the elocution side of the production.
In the second meeting, Thursday evening, April 4, committees were selected to study the various sides of the production, and supervise the initial efforts as the play gets under way. Mr. Leslie emphasized the fact that the play was for the students’ ' benefit, and that all activity and decisions rested with those who were taking part in the direction and production.
“Who was that?” asked one of a group seated on Sorin porch the other night. He was trying to find out the name of the erect figure which had walked so swiftly out of the hall and across the quadrangle. This started a discussion about our “Man About”
which lasted for the better part of an hour—and during that hour no one has a single uncharitable criticism to make, which is a distinct tribute in itself.
Born in Cleveland twenty-some years ago, James A. Byrne, Jr., went through the usual prescribed academic curriculum or grammar school and its extra-curricular vagaries. Then whether he was sent, or whether he just went, we don’t know, but anyhow, he attended Cathedral Latin School. In his senior year he became President of the Writer’s Club, and President of the Debating Society. These activities were not such a far cry from the ones he was to pursue in college.
It was not surprising, then, that when he came to Notre Dame he was instrumental in the formation of the Rifle Club, and later became one of its officers. The same manner of brisk activity which characterized his walk so definitely that he could be identified by it on a very dark evening is also characteristic of his mental habits, for Jim is one of the quickest and most diligent students on the cafnpus. After having been secretary of the Cleveland Club in his sophomore year, he undertook to back one of his friends for the Presidency of the the club the following year. Although his man was not elected, the polling gave to Jim’s candidate a larger number of votes than any other insurgent candidate had ever received in the history of the club—and one vote decided the issue.
While at the C.M.T.C. Jim acquired an interest in boxing; that’s all Jim
BALLMAN IS SPEAKER AT PATRICIANS MEET
In his paper “Basis for Women’s Disabilities in the Roman Republic” read to the Patricians March 6, Richard Ballman, senior in Arts and Letters, presented briefly and exactly the religious and social causes for the legal restraints placed upon Roman women during the days of the latex-Republican period.
After mentioning a few specific instances of the Roman woman’s re-. stricted rights, Ballman noted “that it was the concept of patria potestas and the agnatic relation of the family which was responsible fox- these limitations of rights.”
Since the fathex- in giving life to his son gave him simultaneously his creed, worship, right to continue the sacred fire and similax- ceremonies, women participated in the domestic worship only secondarily through their- father before marriage, and their husband after marriage. The religious worship of the family was the basic authority in the state, and the actual, fundamental reason fox-the absence of legal status foxwomen.
In the course of his speech Ballman gave a vivid picture of Roman life as it was displayed in the impressive marriage ceremonies, and in the so-ical freedom women finally acquired that caused much licentiousness.
The speaker- summarized his subject amusingly with Cato’s ironic words: “All men rule ovex- women, we Romans rule ovex- all men, and oux-wives rule ovex- us.”
has to do with anything to excel in it. He was twice champion of his camp and in his sophomore year- the runner-up for the weltex-weight title in the Bengal Bouts. Though few of the students know it, the efficiency with which the Bengal Boxing show this yeax- was run is more largely attributable to Jim Byrne than to any othex- individual. Those who know of the hours he spent in the supervision of the boxers and equipment, of the many entanglements requiring a most delicate diplomatic touch, and of the numberless petty disappointments which might have easily discouraged a less hardy soul, realize the real executive ability wlxich Jim must possess in ordex- to run a show of such magnitude on such a successful basis.
Another, and more congenial form of extra-curriculax- activity is his interest in publications work. In his sophomore year he was assistant news editor of The Scholastic. This year he has been the most reliable and diligent man on the Scrip staff; the suggestions of this associate editor are indispensable to the editor.
Six
The Scholastic
DEBATERS NEAR END OF SUCCESSFUL SCHEDULE
College Parade
With Vincent Garman
CHEERLEADER FOLEY CALLS OUT CANDIDATES
On Tuesday evening, March 19th, a Notre Dame affirmative debate team, composed of Robert Schmelzle, George Krug and Richard Meier, met a negative case as presented by Charles Henry, Chester Lynn and Frank Polk of John Carroll University in Cleveland, in a non-decision debate.
The men from the Ohio university
George Krug His debating was philosophical.
were on their way to Chicago to de-I bate Marquette and decided to stop off at Notre Dame and endeavor to schedule a contest. After much trouble they came upon Professor Coyne, varsity coach, and requested a meeting with a Notre Dame team.
Taking as a basis for their argument the moral side of the munitions question, the John Carroll speakers turned the discussion into a philosophical debate which proved extremely interesting.
Last Sunday evening at St. Mary’s College, John Locher and Joseph Becek debated a Notre Dame negative case against Richard Fagan and Mortimer Grief of New York University. There was a critic decision D rendered by Professor McBurney of the University of Michigan.
The New York University affirmative case took the nationalization of munitions as its plan. After having . been taken out of the debate by the negative speakers, the affirmative program became sadly depleted. All the speakers made the best of their opportunities and the men from the east used the anticipated provincialism of dealing in personalities. It is a method seldom used in this section, t though entirely animating.
Pat Flannigan
“It’s not as difficult to get into radio today as it was ten years ago,” was the encouraging statement Pat Flannigan of the WBBM Air Theatre made Monday evening, March 25, in addressing a group of those interested in the campus radio station and in radio in general.
Mr. Flannigan divided his talk into three parts, namely, the technical department, the writing department, and the announcing department.
eApril 5, 1935
INTERPRETATION
The professors, even in this day of free speech, may have the right idea. Recent examples of scholarly equivocation are: By the president of Dartmouth—“Dartmouth and many other colleges, no doubt, could solve their financial puroblems over night by merely admitting students with established economical backgrounds.” And by Dr. Marcus Jemegan of U. of Chicago—“Only those most competent should be privileged to enjoy higher education.”
“What,” we ask, “is meant by ‘established economic backgrounds,’ and by ‘competent’? Can such indefinite qualities be the foot-rules to calculate who may go to college?”
ooOoo
A prof, at Vassar had won a long-established reputation as a hater of gum-chewing in his classes. Lately he hasn’t even frowned at the most obvious mastication. The reason— he’s invested in 100 shares of American Chicle!
“RAH-RAH” SITUATION
The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching proclaimed, in its annual report, that the “rah-rah” college spirit of the '20’s had been replaced by a scholarly attitude. Soon afterwards Edwin Franko Goldman, famed bandmaster, told Lehigh students that too many college bands were organized solely for football. games — the “rah-rah” type. Now, learned editors of the California Daily Bruin (U.C.L.A.) and the Daily Trojan (S.C.) are heckling each other because the one says Joe College is dead, while the other emphatically denies it. Fuel was added to the weighty tiff when a member of the S.C. faculty told radio listeners that rah-rahism was essential to the spirit of youth.
We suggest a collection to buy the editors a sand-box.
ooOoo
As the result of a decision to change the name of Columbia, Portland Oregon, to University of Portland there are now only 20 Columbias left in these U. S.
ooOoo
NOSING AROUND
A pre-law student at W. Virginia U. withdrew rather than face expulsion when he refused to take compulsory military training. . . Old “Rain-Maker” himself is a former prof, at Queen’s U. (Belfast, Ire.) who offers to create machine-made rain at a fee of from $20 to $50 per storm. . . If he were to be isolated on a desert island and had the choice of five
Thomas ■ Jefferson Foley, head cheerleader, has issued a call for students in the three lower classes who would care to try out for posts on the squad of next year.
The first convocation will be held in the boxing room of the gym next Monday, April 8, at 12:30.
T. Jeffersox Foley ' He took it on the nose.
There is no experience necessary for the job. The most important characteristic of a cheerleader is ‘•'personality.” Any present freshman, sophomore or junior who posseses a cheery smile and a workable memory is eligible for the tryouts.
Should anyone have some original ideas or suggestions to make for a snappeir “rah, rah” aggregation, Foley will be glad to entertain their contributions and would like to have them attend the meeting as well.
The position of senior cheerleader is open for the year ’35-’36 and any present junior ■will be acceptable for that place if he fulfills the proper qualifications and demonstrates that he is capable of discharging his duties.
Before the tryouts are made all the applicants will be taught the cheers and movements so that everyone may have an equal opportunity in the contest. As a part of the test for squad positions the men will be given the occasion to lead cheers at one or two baseball games.
Seven men will be selected and from that group the final choice will be made. It is anticipated that the new cheerleaders will be chosen before the Easter holidays.
Notice
Pre-registration for classes for 1935-36 will begin tomorrow and conclude April 16.
books, a member of Ohio State’s English Dept, would make a Sears & Roebuck catalogue his first choice. . . Georgetown’s Hoya reveals, in a series of editorials, the un-American activities of communists in U. S. schools ... A Harvard freshman, noting the bulletin “Dates for English Exams” remarked the scarcity of functions to which one can stag anymore.
S even
WRANGLER DISAPPROVES OF U.S. JORY SYSTEM
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
BAND, GLEE CLUB, TO GIVE CONCERT SUNDAY
That the modern jury system is defective and should be abolished was the proposition Eugene Malloy, junior in the College of Commerce, attempted to prove to the Wranglers at their weekly meeting, March 27.
After sketching briefly the origin of juries, the speaker explained the adoption of the ancient right of jury trial in the Constitution. “Its neglect to stipulate whether the right of waiver would be recognized,” the speaker continued, “binds us to a rigid judicial procedure.”
Launching into an extended discussion of the jury system as it functions today, Malloy named an endless number of evils that were inherent in the’body of “twelve good men and true.” “Human weaknesses,” Malloy explained, “which induce the uneducated jurors to accept bribes for money or political advantages; which make them hostile to the enforcement of certain laws; and which assist ini their disregard of many fundamentals of law tend to frustrate the administration of justice.”
Race prejudice, sympathies of women instead of a sense of justice, the idea that a verdict of guilt is the only means of upholding the law were . cited as some evil factors.
A system of judges, advocated by the speaker, was to replace juries. In its final form the new plan would embrace a term for judges to continue indefinitely upon good behavior, supplemented by a salary of $25,000 in order to place the judge above graft or bribery. Further personal security7 for the defendant would reside -in the appellate court impeachment of judges for inequitable decisions.
“Possibilities of its nationwide success,” emphasized the speaker, “can be inferred by its past use in 98% of the cases tried in Baltimore and in many cases of several states. Fur-thermore, a survey of all the judges, prosecutors, and lawyers in Connecticut favored the non-jury system.”
Rt. Rev. Bishop Noll Speaks To St. Vincent De Paul
At a meeting of the Saint Vincent de Paul Society, Tuesday evening, March 26th, His Excellency, the Right Reverend Bishop Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, addressed the group on the “Practical Application of Catholic Teaching in Catholic Action.” Bishop Noll expressed his congratulations to the society for its fine work among the poor in South Bend. He quoted statistics to show the cost of crime and crime prevention in dollars and cents to the community.
Eight
PROFIT AND LOSS
Leave it to the book store, that commercial enterprise of the Brothers located in the basement of Badin Hall and effecting the pocket books of fellows living as far east as Freshman.
For semesters and semesters the spacious display window near the Howard side has featured an unknown make of fountain pen during the more prosaic months , of the campus year, but when the juniors go promising or the. seniors go balling the brother gives the high sign and out comes the fountain pens and in goes a heterogeneous collection of fancy Notre Dame letter stands, pennants, , pen wipers and all the othei-things that make a home town girl think a college boy is a banker.
Well, along about a month ago the good nuns in the infirmary realized that a small epidemic of measles was beginning to empty the senior and junior classes and give a fellow attending the first show in Washington Hall a fifty-fifty chance of getting a seat. And about ten days later the nuns graduated the first class of measle majors. The blase orbs of the juniors and the sparkling eyes of the , rest of us were hidden behind concave and convex slits of dark smoky glass.
The campus in general speculated as to whom would be the next of us making the trip to the pest house. Sympathy was rampant. But do you think that gang over in the book store gave a dam about anyone missing three hours in distributive justice and a couple of nights at the Palais? They did like heck.
For as the University settled down to the third week of the measle epidemic, out came the fountain pens and in went a large display card of sun glasses.
THE FALL OF SORIN
Sorin, long noted for robust deviations from the regimented channels of campus activities, has at last given way to the cult of Foley on the third floor of Walsh. This change has been imminent since the Sorins invited the Walshes to their last hound and girl chase. From that time on the boys above the pool room have subtly wrested control of the senior eccentricity market.
Again it is a mild form of exercise that is the latest whim of the class of ’35: a roller skating party. Foley is quoting prices, suggesting pillows, and insisting that it is riot a stag party.	.
By combining the talents of his musical groups Professor Joseph J. Casasanta will present a novelty of melodious effects when the band offers its first formal concert of the year in Washington Hall next Sunday night at eight o’clock charp.
This year the Glee Club will add choral interpretations to several numbers on the program. So satisfactory has been the combination of Band and Glee Club during the football season, and at several other informal occasions that Prof. Casasanta has decided to introduce this arrangement to the atmosphere of a formal concert.
As was announced in the last issue of the Scholastic, this is the first appearance of the band in Washington Hall in three years. The program has been carefully arranged to bring out the best qualities of the band— playing music composed especially for band units.
LAWYER ISSUED
(Continued from Page 3)
treatise explains the conspiracy trial . in the form, of the old work entitled “Doctor and Student.”
The, necessity of the preparation of a case before going to trial is stressed by Capt. T. W. Sheridan in “A Competent Attorney Prepares His Case.” It is a narrative of a very important admiralty case.
The student section of the Lawyer is divided into Notes, Recent Decisions, and Book Reviews. “Bailments” by Nicholas Tsiolis considers the theory and history of the bailee’s right to recover against wrong doing third persons who injure a bailed property. “Damages” by Robert Devine is a discussion of the rules of damages with special reference to injuries to automobiles.
. John A. Berry is the author of “Receivership in Mortgage Foreclosure Cases” an article dealing with the problem of the rights of a receiver. “New Trials” by John A. Towne is a discussion of the use of the additur. Another article written by John H. Logan, Jr., discusses the expert testimony of physicians and surgeons and' the weight and sufficiency of such evidence.
A note on Torts by August Petrillo considers the extent of liability for injuries to person and property by dogs. Richard A. Molique, writing in the field of Torts, discusses the malicious inducements of breach of marriage promises.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, April 5
. Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m.; general staff, 7:00 p.m., editorial rooms. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30.
Saturday, April 6
Movie, “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch,” 6:45 and 8:15, in Washington Hall. Pre-registration for classes for 1935-36 begins.
Sunday, April 7
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m. Band concert, Washington Hall, 8 :00 p.m.
Monday, April 8
S.A.C. Swimming meet, South Bend Natatorium, 8:00 p.m. Concert, Paul-ist Choir of Chicago, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, April 9
Lecture, Washington Hall, Shane Leslie, “The Irish Epic,” 8:00 p.m.
'Wednesday, April 10
.Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
EULOGY
(Continued from Page 2)
cution, the hatreds which produce wars, the materialism which breeds- depressions.
The philosophy of infidelity is death, that of Christianity, life. Father Cavanaugh was wont to remind the unthinking that the most outstanding fact in the experiences of man is not death, but life—a- fact preached more loudly by nature than by religion. We die to live more perfectly, death-, being only the door which opens to that fuller life.’ That door has now opened to Father Cavanaugh, but because of his exalted estimate of the infinite sanctity of God, he would be the last to admit that his soul was so perfectly cleansed at its departure from the body that immediate entrance into the supernatural glory of God would be accorded it. Therefore, in his name, and on his behalf, I implore your suffrages.
Father Cavanaugh’s memory will be long cherished by all who knew him in life, and
• in - his name I beseech them to model their lives in accordance with .his counsel and example.
His spirit will long survive'at Notre Dame, especially among his fellow religious, inspiring all to aim at great heights in piety, in learn-. ing, in pulpit, oratory.
The loss'sustained by Notre Dame in Father Cavanaugh’s passing, will be more than compensated by the gains which will accrue to his Community and to this school through his pleadings before the Alma Mater, the -Notre Dame enthroned in the glory of heaven. Can you not fancy the sextet 6f former presidents of Notre Dame, comprised of Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Morrissey, O’Donnell, and. Cavanaugh, pleading before the Seat of Wisdom for added . blessings .on Holy Cross, added lustre and influence for Notre Dame, and protection and aid through life for all its students?
May. the beautiful soul of Father Cavanaugh rest everlastingly in. peace I
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Politics
The spring festival is on. Outside of the Prom, which is an important event the juniors enj* *oy nothing so much as their elections, which are also extremely important. So from this point on, all.their attentions will be devoted to mass meetings, private meetings, group meetings, and intense little tete-a-tetes.
There will be the manager who calls meetings continually; the smiling candidate who drops around to keep up public interest in himself; the defeated candidate who will throw his votes either way for a price; the candidate with a monogram man behind him; the balance of power man; the radical. with secret, strength— everybody will have a title and everybody will be horribly important And out of this mess will come one forlorn creature who will end up behind the American flag on Feb. 22.	- .
It’s a dangerous business at best, however, this running for president. One of Alumni’s early candidates spent weeks in carrying his neighbor’s laundry bags back and forth, buying cigarettes for the boys, and making speeches in the rain on his rear balcony, and then found it advisable to drop the whole thing and throw his strength one way or the other. Just goes to show.
O
Bengal Bouts
The Bengal Bouts went off in a most successful manner, both from the viewpoint of the spectators and the man behind the cash box. A net profit of $357 is no mean achievement for this campus, mind you: And the fights were undoubtedly on a par with those of previous years. Except for one thing. Never, in all our ringside experience, have we seen so many people get cut up so easily. We suppose that that boxer (what was his name again?) who stormed about the arena making faces would agree with us on that point.
The Connor-Tancredi watch rose at times to the famous Perroni level of head-crushing comedy, but lacked that final headlong dive out of the ring that made Perroni what he probably is today.
McGrath and Sheedy, who should have brought their clippings in with them, were worn out before they entered the .ring. From then on it was j"ust a question of which would stay awake the longest—McGrath, Sheedy, or us.
And now we take and second the suggestion of Jim Byrne, who handled the show, and ask for nine good reasons why there shouldn’t be a boxing team at Notre Dame. We have the fighters, quite a few of us have quarters, and we personally have a set of gloves that they may use if they’ll buy the laces.
Notre Dame Men
With the death of the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. and Joe Sullivan Notre Dame has lost two of her great sons. Did you. meet Father Cavanaugh once, you knew him and he knew you. Joe Sullivan was a great athlete and a gentleman, and there isn’t much more you can say about a fellow than that. Both leaders in their own fields, one from the faculty, the other from the student body; both true Notre Dame men—they will live.
Metropolitan Madness
The Metropolitan Club, ignoring the glorious possibilities and fitness of a meeting on April First, got together- Sunday last and again discussed things. This time, however, the boys agreed on an answer. As Comrade Foley would say, they took a number from one to ten, doubled it and added a lot more, but viewed from any side the total was three dollars and fifteen cents. There were several members present at the festivities who remembered having seen three dollars and fifteen cents once.
Of course you’ll pardon our insertion of a personal note when you consider the circumstances. We refer to a recent letter from an acquaintance in New York. “When,” it read in part, “are you fellows holding your Easter dance?”
Top of the Week
The Seniors, who are solving the problems of a Ball chairman by having eleven of them.
The Corrigans, who, twenty hours after they were nominated as Men About the Campus, were shooting marbles in front of Walsh.
The 327 seniors who, come this June, will make more money and be far happier than we.
The present Freshman Hall, who has heard that it is to be torn down this summer, and is laughing.
eApril 5, 1935
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
better known only because he has consistently refused to cheapen his work with the sordid commercial sensationalism so common in today’s best sellers. In one of his works, Robert Kimberly, Mr. Spearman steadfastly defends the sanctity of marriage. His novels have always been remarkable not only for their literary qualities but also for their moral implications. The author is unquestionably one who well deserves the award.
JOHN D. CARBINE______________________1_____Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING..............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCL_______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ	.
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.____________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY_______________1______________Dome Dust
-VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr______________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY______________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_____________________________kNews Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN__________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL.________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN_______________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY-------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI____________________FREDERICK SHANLEY
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE____________FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH__________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS____________________HARRY A. BALDWIN
JOHN A. GILLESPIE	'
’ Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST._______________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER______________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER.___________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN______________________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT____________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management JOHN F. STOEGKLEY-________________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated gbllegiate $rcss ~1934 (Soltanatclftiacst 1935&-
►UIXSOH	WISCONSIN
April 5, 1935
ONE WHO CANNOT BE REPLACED
Notre Dame lost one of its greatest priests with the passing of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. For fifteen years this gentleman labored to make Notre Dame the center of American Catholic education. That his efforts met with success is evidenced by the -expansion which took place under his administration and by the spreading of the fame of Notre Dame under his guidance.
To say more would be futile. The tribute of national leaders have been laid at his bier. We can do no more, nor no less, than place ours beside the countless others.
A DESERVED RECOGNITION
• Last Sunday the University awarded the Laetare Medal for 1935 to Frank H. Spearman and thus honored him as an outstanding member of the American Catholic laity. Mr. Spearman is an excellent author who is not
Ten	.
WITH MANY THANKS
The statement of income and expense for the Bengal Boxing Bouts shows that a profit of three hundred and fifty-seven dollars was turned over to the Bengal Missionaries. When the crowd was leaving the gymnasium after the bouts, many were heard to remark on the efficiency with which this year’s show was run. Both the profit and the efficiency are attributable, not to any one man, but to the combined efforts of a large group. The Scholastic wishes to give assurances of gratitude to the many persons who contributed their time and services to the success of the show:	.
To Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden for generous permissions and’ splendid cooperation. To Frank W. Lloyd, University Comptroller, for his personal financial support. To Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Business Manager of Athletics, and to Herb Jones, Assistant Business Manager, for assistance in planning many details of the arrangements. To Studebaker’s, and especially to Mr. Ralph Heckamen, for the use of the ring.
To the officials who contributed their services on the night of the final bouts—Referees Patrick F. McFarlane and George Nate, Judges William Sheehan and Eugene Young, Timers, Chet Grant and Edward Vyzral, and Announcer William Cemey. To the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., Tony Andreoni, and Tom Gorman who handled the preliminary eliminations during the week preceding the final bouts. And to the official seconds on the night of the show: John Michuta, Mel Rich, George McGrath, ' and Charles Freeman.
To the gymnasium crew who, without a charge of any nature, worked until after midnight on the night of the bouts dismantling the ring and bleachers. To Equipment Manager John McAllister who gave invaluable aid on many details. To Doctor McMeel, who carefully checked the physical condition of the boxers.
To the managers, especially George Demetrio and James Burke, who aided in the ticket sale and who, by their excellent work, once again gave proof to the campus adage: “The managers can and will do anything.” To Mr. William Duley and corps of stadium gatemen and ushers who efficiently handled the large crowd.
To the boxers, to Cy Connor and Nick Tancredi, to Gunner McGrath and Mike Sheedy and to John Siscanaw who coached them and finally, and above all, to Jim Byrne and Jim Waldron who were responsible for the staging of the bouts. This pair found no detail too small, nor no inconvenience too great in the two months of planning and preparing. Without them the show would have been impossible. ,
The Scholastic

f
♦ SPCKTS ♦
FIVE NEW CHAMPIONS CROWNED IN FOURTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOXING BOUTS
FOR THE THIRD TIME
DURKIN DEFEATS MARCY
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
SPRING SPORTS
The annual lull between the winter and spring sport seasons, which has been in effect now for three weeks, is living its final days as the various squads put the finishing touches on their practice sessions. Within the next two weeks the Irish baseball, track, tennis, and golf teams will finish their polishing off and get down to the business of meeting the demands made upon them by their schedules.
The baseball squad, in its second season under the guiding hand of Coach Jake Kline, will make its first showing of the year next Friday against Ohio State. If Jake is puzzled concerning his nine’s outlook it’s only natural that the problem should extend to this column. When Kline took over the coaching duties last spring he inherited a group of average hitters and fair pitchers. This year he finds himself with the par hitters available but with a pitching staff that must be seen in competition before being judged. But if Kline’s hurlers are not blasted off the mound and show average ability, the Irish ball yard will be the scene of a fair amount of victories for Kline & Co.
Nick’s track combine should have a most successful outdoor season in view of the fact that they were undefeated in indoor dual meets earlier this year. When the spikemen start breathing the spring air they will undoubtedly show improvement over their indoor times, heights, and distances. And when they go outdoors they will bring with them Levicki, one of the country’s outstanding javelin throwers—Nick hopes. The only other event not on the indoor card is the discus. The timber for this event is of a decidedly unknown quality as well as quantity.
Those ever successful Notre Dame golfers face the hardest schedule of any crew of Irish divot-diggers. This year’s squad will be without the valuable services of Ex-Captain Vince Feh-
(Continued on Page 15)
Hal Gooden’
His brother also won.
SPRING TENNIS MEET NOW BEING HELD FOR
NETMEN
The annual Spring Tennis tournament opened this week on the University courts, with an entrance of 74 competitors. An unusual feature is the fact that none of the varsity are allowed to participate, the drawings being confined to those men that were not fortunate enough to be included among those on the selected list.
Attention at the present time is entirely devoted to singles play, while the doubles will swing into action with the completion of the former division. Coach de Landero remarked that the main idea back of the tournament is not only to present the winner and runner-up with a medal, but also to provide capable substitutes for the first team in case they have a tendency to ‘loaf on the job.’ In addition, it is planned to arrange a series of inter-squad matches on the days that the Irish racqueteers appear away from home, between the (Continued on Page 12)
By James Waldron
After 90 minutes of fighting, seven young men climbed out of the ring in the Notre Dame field-house on Friday, March 22, proudly bearing the titles designating the divisional championships of the Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic. The record crowd of over 2,000 fans was treated to plenty of action as only two of the defending champions were able to emerge from the fierce fighting with their crowns intact.
That popular Illinois athletic commissioner, Backey McFarland, was on hand to referee the bouts and won the plaudits of the crowd with his fair and very capable officiating. He received fine assistance from Georgie Nate who handled the opening bouts. Mr. William Sheehan and Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, A.A.U. judges, served in this capacity for the show. Ed Vyzral and Chet Grant, freshman and varsity assistant football coaches, respectively, served as time-keepers while Bill Cemey, “B” team coach, did the announcing.
A devastating right hand and a likeable grin introduced the new bantamweight champion of Notre Danie, Jess Roces. In the opening, and probably the best fight of the evening, Jess won a great scrap from Joe. O’Neill. This smiling kid kept plowing in, throwing punches, as his taller opponent tried to keep him off with sharp-shooting lefts and right. A haymaker right, brought from way back, dropped O’Neill in the third round and furnished the edge which swung the decision to Roces.
Lacking the color, but showing better boxing ability than the previous fight, Howard Gooden outpointed Franklyn Fox to win the featherweight title. Both men battled on even terms in the first round but Howard gained a slight edge in the next two and won the verdict. The Gooden family staked out another claim for boxing honors when older brother, Hal, outclassed the defending champion, “Memphis Bill” Whitman, to win the junior welterweight crown. Hal had too much experience and
(Continued on Pase 14)
Eleven
cApril 5, 1935
Large Number of Participants To Compete In S.A.C. Swim Meet
OUTLOOK VERY BRIGHT FOR OUTDOOR TRACKMEN
MEDALS FOR THE WINNERS
All necessary arrangements have been completed for the annual S.A.C. Swimming Meet, which is scheduled for 8 o’clock Monday night, April 8, at the South Bend Natatorium.
Phil Purcell, under whose direction the meet is to be run, announces that
Phil Purcell He’ll get splashed.
he has received many entries during the past week; among which were those filed by the Huisking brothers, who seem likely to repeat in their events, and are expected to team with Bill Farrell in the Medley Relay to form a strong team. All entries must be handed into Phil Purcell, 106 Walsh Hall, not later than noon Sunday.
All contestants may secure a special rate of 20 cents, by presenting . their dining hall cards at the Nata-toriuni the night of the meet. The’ events will be run in the following order, with preliminaries in the first four events, and the finals immediately following. Winners of the preliminaries will be judged on the basis of time, so as to eliminate any extra events.
Forty yard free style; 60 yard back stroke; 100 yard free style; 60 yard breast stroke.
Unless the number of contestants in the relay events make it necessary there, will be no preliminaries in the following events:
High and low board diving; Plunge; Medley relay; Free style re- lay.
Medals will be awarded to the first and second places in all events ex- . cept the relays, in which case only first place will be awarded.
All-Interhall League Quintets Selected By
Twenty-eight Coaches
Twenty-eight interhall coaches gathered around the all-interhall table and drew up . the outstanding players in this year’s competition. St. Ed’s, winners. of the heavyweight crown, snared two places on the mythical five with Levicki and Gallagher. The run-nerup, Brownson, placed only one man, Kennedy. The Badin and the Dillon lightweight were both accorded two places, while Carroll, runnerup to Badin -was represented by only Ed Kilrain.'
Tobin of Badin was accorded allinterhall honors for the third straight year, and Levicki and Gallagher were also repeaters. Nigro of Howard is another who had merited mention in previous years.
All-interhall teams:
HEAVYWEIGHT
Gkouf I—F, Foley (Morrisey) ; F, Themes ’ (Badin) : G, Levicki (St. Edward’s) ; G. Gal-lasher (St. Edward’s).; G. Wilson (Lyons). Honorable mention: Arnheiter (Corby). Cud-more (Dillon), Joyce (St. Edward’s), Novak (Corby), McCanles (Dillon), Puplis (St. Edwards).
Group II — F. Kennedy (Brownson) ; F. Prendergast (Alumni) ; C, O’Neil (Howard) : G. Fabian (Freshman) : G. Nigro (Howard). Honorable mention: O’Reilly (Brownsin). Fe-gan (O. G.) ; Krause (Alumni). Liczinski (Ca.).
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group I—F. Brower (Dillon) : F. Reagan (Badin) ; C. Tobin (Badin) ; G. Fox (Lyons) : G. Sullivan (Dillon). Honorable mention: Troy (St. Edward’s), Fox (Morrissey). Veni-bido (Corby), Leonard (Dillan). Smith (Dillon) , Cronin (Lyons), Lee (Morrissey). Sherry (Badin).	.	-
Group II—F, Leonard (Walsh) ; F, Kilrain (Carroll) : C. Whitecotton (Freshman) ; G. Dorsey (Brownson) ; G. Herrick (Howard). Honorable mention: Malloy (Alumni), Meyers (Alumni). Meier (Carroll), Thornburg (Car-toII), Kelly (Carroll). Pope (Brownson).
TENNIS TOURNAMENT
(Continued from Page 11)
remaining contingent of the “A” club and the “shock troops.”
Both members of the - winning doubles aggregation and their opponents will likewise be awarded medals on the same basis as those given to finalists in singles. With the card of 74 ‘future Tildens’ it was deemed necessary to put in an extra round, so that 54 received byes and the 20 in the added bracked were cut down to make a field of 64 for the first day of festivities. .	-
Notice
Professor and Mrs. John P. Turley are receiving congratulations upon the. birth of a daughter, Marilyn Jeanne. Mr. Turley is acting head of the classics department.
Coach John Nicholson has the outdoor track squad hard at work on the Cartier Field oval. The boys have been outside better than a week now and, since they were allowed no layoff after the indoor curtain dropping at Indianapolis, are well on their way toward mid-season form.
Nick is counting heavily on the
Leo McFarlane
His return, a blessing.
apparent return of Leo McFarlane to his long distance form. Archie Gott gave several point winning exhibitions for the track mentor in indoor competition, but the return of McFarlane, a sensation in his Sophomore year, should make that two mile distance a Notre Dame event. The squad is now complete for the outdoor drive.
The boys are being pointed for the dual meet with Pittsburgh here, May 18th. The Snarling Panthers have been a thorn in the side of Notre Dame athletics for the past three years, and Nick is determined to end the regime. The Indoor squad felt the power of Pitt in the C. I. C. meet, and the Armour, and Butler Relays.
Two weeks before the encounter with the Panthers, the Irish journey to Columbus to meet Jessie Owens and the Ohio State team. Coach Nicholson is pessimistically predicting an afternoon too tough for his charges. He believes that the little colored speed merchant should be good for at least 26 points. This meet ranks second in importance on the Irish schedule.
On April 20, the date that the Notre Dame tracksters were originally scheduled to compete in the annual Kansas Relay games, Purdue University will be met on Cartier Field in a dual meet. This means that the Irish stars will not compete in the Jayhawkers’ relay carnival. .
Twelve
The Scholastic
COACH LAYDEN DRILLS GRIDNEN AFTER LAYOFF
Coach Kline’s Baseball Squad Engage In Outdoor Practice Drills
By Joe Prendergast
Spring football drills were resumed by head coach Elmer Layden and his staff during the past week after the temporary layoff caused by Captain-elect Joe Sullivan’s unfortunate death. The spring practice sessions are held on the field in the rear of Freshman hall, Cartier field being devoted to the interests of the trackmen and Jake Kline’s baseball tossers.
Coach Layden has the task of replacing five positions on last year’s number one eleven which at present are vacant. Captain Dominic Vairo, right end; Rocco Schiralli, left guard; Jack Robinson, center; George Melin-kovich, right halfback; and Joe Sullivan, left tackle, are the men who will have to be replaced. Besides those five, head mentor, Layden will lose Paul Schrenker, Fritz Weidner, Art Mueller, Dick Shamla, guards; Dan Hanley, right halfback; Bud Bonar, quarterback; Sturla Canale and Harold Quinlan, ends; Carl Esser, tackle; and Matt Ronzone, fullback.
Of the reserve players who will be lost by graduation are nine who were of valuable assistance to.the varsity squad during their terms here, there are namely: John Hobin, John Connor, Bill Schroder, John D’Amora, Karl Fulnecky, Phil Heinle, Pat Fisher, George Lynch, and Bernie O’Brien. There are twenty-four- lettermen returning and are grouped as follows: four ends, five tackles, three guards, two centers, two quarterbacks; four halfbacks, and three fullbacks.
The work for the greater part since the opening of drills has consisted of instructions in fundamentals, mostly in blocking and fast low-charging start. Last Saturday, different teams were selected from the squad and light scrimmages were held, with every man on the field getting his share of actual duty.	.
Several members of the football squad are also out for the ball team with the result that many report early for baseball practice and then later in the same afternoon don their grid togs for a workout. Matt Thernes, end on the pigskin squad and the star twirler of the diamond - forces, has been devoting his time solely to baseball. Frank Gaul, Andy Pilney, Marty Peters, and Wally Fromhart have been dividing thentime, thus far, between the ball nine and the spring gridiron drills.
The freshmen have’ taken up a good deal of the coaches’ time, to date, in the hope that' valuable replacements may be singled out for
eApril 5, 1935
Notre Dame Tracksters Close Indoor Season At Butler Relay Games
By James McMullen
Notre Dame’s track squad travelled to the Butler Relays, March 28, and officially wound up their indoor season. The men of Nick gave a fair exhibition of fading power to finish fifth in a nineteen team field. The meet was won by Michigan with 34 % points, Ohio State placed second with 28%, and Michigan State Normal and Kansas State Teacher’s College tied for third and fourth ahead of the Irish 22 markers.
Gary’s ever-active athlete, the giant Don Elser, was the only member of the Blue and Gold to capture a first. The old rivalry between Frank Davis of Hillsdale and Elser, was decided as big Don won the season’s rubber match. Against Davis in the C.I.C. meet, Elser. broke the fieldhouse record to, win. The following week, the Hillsdale star- was forced to set a new Armour Relay mark, to regain his supremacy. And in this last meeting, Elser continued the record smashing efforts with a toss of 48 feet nine and three-tenths inches —a new mark in Butler Relay competition.
The two mile relay team gave a thrilling performance. Joe McGrath, running. third for the Irish spotted the usually dependable Jim Shiels about a seven yard lead, but Jim faltered to let the Ohio State anchorman claim the new record for that school. Notre Dame in finishing second was well under the old mark, 7:56.3. Vince Murphy was the only other Nickman to finish in the first two positions. Vince, admittedly under the effects of a letdown, could do no better than tie with Philson of Drake behind Allen of Michigan State.	’
In rounding out the 22 points, the Irish medley team ran third and the mile relay finished in the same hole. The latter quarter who started the indoor season with strong indications of future fine efforts, conclusively proved that they are an outdoor aggregation. Nick expects their bulkiness to be as much an asset on the outdoor track, as it has proven a liability inside..
the varsity berths. The first year men have not shown many outstanding lights, at this writing, but there is always a chance that many may develop fast as the practice sessions continue.
SEASON OPENS APRIL 12
By Cy Stroker
With their opening game just a week away, the Notre Dame baseball players are practicing diligently to' get in shape for one of the most rigorous seasons in recent years. The schedule this year is almost the same as it was last year and Coach Jake Kline is determined to have his team make a better record than it did last season.
Bill Toumey He plays marbles.
Kline is most anxious to develop a good battery and for this reason he has been looking around for material to fill the hurler’s box. The catching position will be well covered by Gaul and Underkofier, who showed their ability at that post last year. Foremost among the pitchers is Matt Themes whose speed and control helped Notre Dame win several games during its delayed spurt last May.
Competing with Themes and Toumey for the pitching berth are Beach, a former outfielder, Marty Peters, a newcomer on the baseball horizon, and two sophomores who are showing possibilities, Van Wagner and Riedel. The rest of the infield sounds like last year’s roster. Captain Dunn is first baseman, Cunha is at second, Regan at shortstop, and Fromhart at third.
The team’s strong point is the outfield which is made up entirely of letter men. Andy Pilney will be chasing them in right field, Mettler is at center, and left field will be occupied by Velcheck who was absent last year. Matthews is another outfielder
The only team on the schedule which the Irish did not meet last season is Illinois. The Illini usually have outfits that are hard to beat. Kline is optimistic, however, about his -chances with the Big Ten teams on the schedule. Western State and Michigan State are aggregations that never seem to get much publicity but which cause more than one Notre Dame headache.	,	.
Thirteen
INTRODUCING
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 11)
By Joe Prendergast
A decade' of years back there was in the city of Boston an organization known as the “Knothole Gang.” All that was required for membership in this worthy club was an unfailing love for the game of baseball and to be under 16 years of age. The meeting place for this group was on Commonwealth Avenue along the entrance to Braves Field and just outside the main gate of old Fenway Park, home of the Red Sox. Every afternoon one could be sure to find at least twenty-five of the members
of the “Knotholers” congregated at their meeting place discussing the game to be played that afternoon or giving their diamond idols a “blow” as they entered the ball park.
Kieran Louis Dunn, then of Hyde Park, Massachusetts, but at present of 246 Sorin Hall, was a true full-fledged member of the “Knothole Gang.” His interest in baseball, started when he was two years old. He says, “I have a picture of myself taken when I was two years old and on my right hand is a baseball glove
F our teen
—a first baseman’s mitt at that.” Lefty picked up most of his knowledge and love for the game on these summer afternoons watching the bigleaguers scamper around the diamond in the Beantown. He played plenty of sandlot baseball before he entered Hyde Park High School so had little trouble making the squad in his freshman year.
During his sophomore year at High Park, Lefty was the first string initial sack guardian and played tackle on the football eleven. His folks
then moved to Springfield so that when the next September came around Lefty had transferred his allegiance to Central High School in Springfield, Massachusetts. He reported for football and won the regular fullback post. In the spring he was found at first base on the starting nine. As a senior, he won letters for the second time in both football and baseball, captaining the ball-tossers. . Cathedral High School in 1931 nosed out Lefty and his mates for the city title by the narrowest of (Continued on Page 15)	'
pumped lefts and right too fast for the bewildered but game Whitman.
* In the lightweight class, Tommy “Tex” Durkin gained sweet revenge for last year’s defeat by scoring a technical K.O. over “Bud” Marcy. It was a marvelous battle while it lasted, with Durkin winning the first round after some sensational fighting. Bud was rallying when he suffered a severe cut over his eye at the start of the second heat and referee, Packey McFarland, was forced to stop the fight. With Jimmy McGuire substituting for Sam Borzilleri, the middle. weight championship was a give-and-take affair with burly Bart McKernan scoring another win for “dear old Hegewisch.”
Behind the flaying fists of Lou Purcell, the welterweight title of Notre Dame remains intact for another year. “Larruping Lou” had too much of a kick in both hands and one of these deadening punches found its mark against the chin of Gerry Gillespie in the second round. The rangy red head had put up a great scrap up to this time, scoring a knockdown in the first round. Max Marek, Golden Gloves champion, exhibited the reason why he is the best fighter in Notre Dame by winning the heavyweight crown with a victory over Eddie Broscoe. The light heavyweight class started off in great style but both Phil Purcell and Walt Marshall had their eyes gashed so badly that the bout was stopped and declared a draw with the championship remaining unoccupied for this year.
One of the features of the night was the high-class wrestling match between Cy Connor and Nick Tan-credi. For action, grunts, groans, and sheer burlesque, it topped any high-priced wrestling show. “Gunner” McGrath pulled out his trusty six-shooter to win his own decision over his arch-rival Morgan “talker” Sheedy.	•

Attention Politicians
Charles Schill, Chairman of the S.A.C. Election committee, this week released the following regulations with regard to filing of candidacy for class elections this spring:
All candidates must file intentions of running, in writing, with Chairman Schill, at 409 Walsh Hall, sometime before 6:00 p.m. Monday, April 15th. Candidates are urged to file as early as possible.
All those who file are to be investigated as to academic and disciplinary record.
The Scholastic
TO EUROPE
SPLINTERS
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
TOURIST CLASS in the American manner UP HIGH in value
DOWN LOW in cost
• The luxurious cabin illustrated above isn’t the only feature of American travel on the famous, modern American ships, Washington and Manhattan.
These great ships, fastest of their type, are the sensations of the sea! Because they offer so much for so little! For only $113 oneway; $204 round trip,you enjoy real American standards! Spacious decks, delicious food in air-conditioned dining salons (exclusive in the service), real beds in all cabins, tiled swimming pool, prerelease talking pictures and many other great features! No wonder these ships have set enviable popularity records!
In Cabin Class — highest aboard the ship—on either the Pres. Hardinges Pres. Roosevelt, you enjoy the top decks, finest cabins—very best the ship offers—at modest fares. Rates as low as $126 one way; $234 round trip.
These four fine liners sail weekly to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg. Apply to your travel agent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES
LINES^
Associated with American Merchant and Baltimore Mail Lines to Europe; Panama Pacific Line to California; U.S. Lines and PanamaPacificCruises. No. 1 Broadway, New York
Golf Schedule
Following is the complete Golf schedule:
April 20—Purdue at Lafayette.	(
April 22—Wayne at Detroit.
April 23—Detroit at Detroit.
April 27—Detroit here.
April 29—Chicago here.
May 4—Wisconsin here.
May HNorthwestern at Evanston.
May 17—Michigan State at East Lansing.
May 25—Pittsburgh here.
May 31 and June 1—Indiana State meet here.
(Continued from Page 11)
lig and Johnny Montedonico who have gone via the graduation route. Remaining to form the nucleus of an uncertain team are Captain Johnny Banks and Win Day. It should be a wide open affair for the remaining berths on the team.
Captain Frank Weldon will lead his tennis team into action shortly now. The card facing these netters is not the easiest in the world. But under the tutelage of Coach de Landero and the steady, inspirational play of the Irish captain, Notre Dame is in a fair way to experience a successful year on the courts.
•
A BLACK MARK
An incident which occurred at the Bengal Boxing Show, we feel, should not go by unnoticed. We have in mind the childish exhibition of one “Senator” Bud Marcy. It seems only logical that Marcy owes a public apology to his opponent, Tex Durkin, THE SCHOLASTIC, and the Notre Dame student body.
In a radio talk the night previous to the finals Marcy asserted that boxing made a man out of anyone participating in it. Taking Mr. Marcy’s remark at its face value it appears then that the “Senator” has missed the whole point of the boxing game. Had boxing made a man of him, he would have exhibited a greater control of temper after losing his fight. Whether Durkin’s glove or head opened the cut above Marcy’s eye is beside the point. The fight was stopped to save the C.Y.O. boxer from possible serious injury from the ,wound. And, incidentally, at the point where the bout was stopped Durkin held any advantage that existed. Discounting the fact that there was the “heat of battle” to be figured in his display of childishness, we still have the “Senator” throwing gloves at a spectator on his way back to the locker room and uttering unsportsmanlike remarks to a dandy little scrapper, Tex Durkin, in the dressing room immediately after. Boxing makes a man out of one? We wonder.
Sociology Majors
• The comprehensive examination for Sociology majors who expect to graduate in June or August will be given during the week of April 8th. The exact date, the hour and place of this examination will be announced on the Sociology bulletin board at the lower entrance to the administration building.
margins. A member of that titlecapturing Cathedral squad that season was Cy Conner, now of Badin Hall and Bengalese wrestling fame. Cy was a pitcher in those days and Lefty says, “Every time he wound up every person in the park from the top row of the grand stand to the man at the plate held his breath.”
Lefty was graduated from Central in 1931 and as far as further education went it was a choice between two schools—Dartmouth and Notre Dame. The Irish University profited at Dartmouth’s expense and in the fall of 1931 Lefty resided in Sophomore Hall, now Freshman Hall. He won his numerals in baseball as a freshman and was out the following spring for George Keogan’s varsity.
Paul Cumming’s, a senior, was the regular first baseman in the first few tilts of the campaign, to be exact until the Chicago University game in Chicago. The Maroons were in the van 6 to 4, first to the ninth, with men on first and second and one out; This was the setting that greeted Lefty as he was called to pinch hit by Coach Keogan. It was the Bay State boy’s first bit of competition for Notre Dame. Here is what he has to say about this momentous occasion, “The day was far from ideal. There was a fierce wind blowing in from Lake Michigan and- I was shivering both from the wintry blasts and from a bit of stagefright. I swung at the first ball pitched and it went for a hit.” His bingle scored one man but Notre Dame was retired shortly after and Chicago copped the engagement, 6 to 5.
Lefty was in the starting lineup for the next fray and there he has been ever since. The biggest kick Lefty ever received while playing ball for Notre Dame happened against Purdue University in 1933. The score was 8 to 5, Purdue leading, one out, bases loaded and the first of the ninth. Lefty was batting and he up and smacked one far and wider for a home run to pull a true-to-life Merriwell act. Purdue tallied a run in their own half of the ninth to knot the score and the game was then . called because of darkness.
Lefty is one of the most popular members of his class. He was secretary of his junior class last year, is now secretary and treasurer of the Monogram Club, and Vice-President of the Springfield Club. His roommate for his four years here has been Jack McDonald. Last spring Lefty was unanimously elected to lead this year’s club. He is a senior trying for his Bachelor of Commercial Science degree in June and after school his plans are indefinite.
Fifteen
esprit 5, 1933
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
We make a lot of fun of POPEYE, but the kid may be right ... In New York’s latest six day bike race, the competitors drank spinach juice for that old energy . . . One of the winners of that popular event, monick-ered ALFRED LETOURNER, is an expert mimic . . . excels in an imitation of smiling MAURICE CHEVALIER ... A. CUTLER is the world’s champion at chinning the bar with one hand ... 12 is the record, and it was set in 1878 . . . POTSY CLARK, leading pro pigskin mentor, believes that all football games should be played on a uniform surface . . . He suggests a mixture of tanbark and pressed cottonseed . . . The now famous BERNIE BIERMAN of Minnesota, claims he has travelled 23,000 miles in delivering lectures, since his GOPHERS annexed the Big Ten crown ... At the University of Nebraska’s home basketball games, the rules are explained to the fans in condensed booklets . . . MEL SHEPPARD was once rejected by the New York Police Department because of a weak heart . . . later he went on to become one of AMERICA’S greatest middle distant runners . . . Soccer is a simple game . . . only 17 rules compose its constitution. . . .
Skiing appears as a sport in the old Norse sagas . . . OLAF TRAYGVSON who was a Norse king in 995 A.D. was quite a lad with the elongated slippers . . . There are four 18-hole golf courses in Pinehurst, N. C., and four others within a few minutes motor drive . . . Ever play paddle tennis? . . . it’s becoming one of the leading diversions in the East ... JAMES K. COGSWELL invented it in 1928 . . . you play the game on wooden platforms, outdoors . . . GEORGE WRIGHT, daddy of golf, is now 88 . . . Wright also played on the first all pro baseball team, the CINCINNATI Red Stockings, and received the then top salary of $1,400 a year . . . Not one of the cage experts on this year’s KENTUCKY U. “Wonder team” graduate ... in fact 11 of the first 12 are sophomores. . . . BROWN UNIVERSITY met Army, Springfield, and Tufts, in mat competition this season, and the result in ail three engagements was a 16-16 tie . . . Japanese golf professionals are to follow the invasion of the Jap baseball team, now in this country . . . the Orientals plan an extensive tour of the very best courses. . . . ANDY COAKLEY is facing his twenty-first season as baseball coach at COLUMBIA University . . . During 1934 ED “STRANGLER” LEWIS made 15 trips between New York and California to appear in wrestling matches. . . .
Costs for spring training in Florida or California to the major league ball clubs is about $15,000 . . . STEVE DONOGHUE, English jockey has won the English Derby six times, and the ALEXANDRA STAKES the same amount, with the famous BROWN JACK ... and EDDIE DORAN, thirteen-year old Melbourne jockey, rode his first race on a horse a year older than himself, and won the Picnic Cup in Australia . . . MRS. FOLRENCE B. ILCH, New Jersey dog breeder, put 22 entries in the New York dog show, and walked off with 19 first prizes . . . almost equals the percentage of the JEFFERSONVILLE High school basketball team in the recent Indiana State Tourney. . . . they hit 20 out of 22 free throws during a two game splurge . . . BABE HERMAN, far from the gridirons in the Pirate training camp, bobs up to report that he used to average 55 yards on punts as a high school grid-der . . . JACK REDMOND, recruit catcher with Washington’s Senators, is an Arizona cowboy . . . LEON CHAGNON, a Giant hurler, worked in 52 games in two years . . . yet didn’t start a one . . . Athletes from 20 states, the District of Columbia, Canada, and Sweden competed in 15 events of the MILLROSE GAMES, recently held at Madison Square Garden .. . ALEX LEVINSKI, CHICAGO BLACKHAWK’S hockey player, is a football, basketball, and baseball star . . . another all round sportsman is LIONEL CONACHER of the Montreal Maroons. . . .
FATHER CAVANAUGH
(Continued from Page 2)
spect, and admiration of Faculty member and student alike.
Funeral services for this distinguished leader of Catholic action were held on Tuesday morning, March 26. Until that hour his body laid in state in the parlor of the Administration Building, under the golden Dome of Our Lady who was his guiding spirit through the years of his life, and to whom he dedicated his entire being. From the evening of his death, to the hour when the last rites of the Church began, the body of Father Cavanaugh was watched over continuously by an honor guard composed of Knights of Columbus and members of the Wranglers Society.
Thousands of friends passed the simple black coffin and knelt down to pray, while telegraphic messages from all sections of the nation streamed into the admisintration offices. Prominent among those who expressed their grief in these messages were President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Mrs. Roosevelt; Archbishop Amieto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., apostolic delegate from Rome; Ambrose O’Connell, assistant postmaster general;
John McCormack; President Edward C. Elliot of Purdue University; the Rev. Colman Nevlis, president of Georgetown University; PostmasterGeneral James Farley; Congressman Samuel B. Pettingill; U. S. Senator Frederick Van Nuys; and Angus D. McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific railroad. The city of South Bend paid him its respect on the morning of the funeral by a moment pause at 9 a.m. which hour marked the commencement of the funeral services.
There were present in the sanctuary at the funeral Mass six bishops, 14 monsignori, and 119 priests who had come from near and far to pay their final tribute to their fellowworker. The bishops were the Most Rev. Karl Alter, D.D., of Toledo, 0.; the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., of Indianapolis; the Most Rev. Phillip McDevitt, D.D., of Harrisburg; the Most Rev. Joseph Schrembs, D.D., of Cleveland; the Most Rev. James Gallagher, D.D., of Detroit; and the Most (Continued on Page 19)
“PEP ON THE AIR
RUTH ETTING and
. her melody
RED NICHOLS and his
COLLEGE PROM
Don't miss the "prom" next Friday. More thrills at college. More beautiful songs. More dancing music. Kellogg's College Prom visits a different famous campus every week and brings you the excitement and merriment of a party.
Be sure to tune in each Friday night. And don't forget, every day, "Keep going with PEP1"
EVERY
FRIDAY NIGHT
8:30 Eastern Standard Time
WJZ Network—N. B. C.

5 ixteen
The Scholastic
I
Mr. William Artingstall
Donates Engineer Volumes
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., announced this week that Mr. William Artingstall of Chicago had donated to the University a collection of engineering volumes and laboratory reports. Mr. Artingstall, a civil engineer, offered the works to the faculty, and Father O’Donnell accepted for the University.
The donation includes an extensive collection of thirty-five volumes of the “Proceedings of the Western Society of Engineers,” and a complete set of “Reports of the Engineering Laboratory” of the University of Illinois. The latter embrace a variety of technical subjects and were published in pamphlet form, many of which are now out of print.
Movie Schedule
Following is the movie schedule up to and including May 11th, as issued by Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C.:
April 6—“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.”
April 13—“College Rhythm.”
May 4—“Great Expectations.”
May 11—“Gift of Gab.”
Irish Cagers Begin Spring
Hoop Practice in Gym '
Some twenty-five freshmen and varsity basketball players answered Coach Keogan’s call for spring practice last Monday afternoon in the gymnasium. Although the opening of the 1935-36 Notre Dame basketball season is still nine months away, Coach George Keogan is already beginning the task of filling the positions left open by Joe O’Kane and Captain Johnny Jordan, both of whom graduate this June.
This year’s freshman team, considered one of the finest in many years, should do a great deal to strengthen next season’s varsity. The frosh will furnish an abundance of reserve material, which is so vitally necessary for a well balanced team. The vigor and enthusiasm displayed by the players in their first practice session, indicated that competition for positions will be especially keen.
All the Arrow Shirts in All the Arrow Styles
at the Big Men’s Store on the Comer . . .
MAX ADLER
New Arrow Shirts for EASTER from Arrow Headquarters
tfulsuinrth’H
Embodies Arrow’s Formula for Style and Fit
Now, at last, a shirt minus the boyish blouse embellishments. A real he-man shirt—broad shoulders, draped-in waist, and tapered sleeves. A shirt that flatters any figure.
Find your way to the nearest Arrow dealer and try Mitoga. They come in a varied assortment of whites, solid colors, stripes, checks, and figures.
$2 and up
ARROW SHIRTS
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.
eApril 5, 1935
Seventeen
...I do not irritate-	>.
• <a^ild, fine-tasting ade ter leaves, only.
i‘
eve^acrid and biting.
Sniteless and harsh. ^afexpensive center 1^^’t-tasting smoke.
r *
irpa^our best friend.

MAY NOT BE
IN YOUR LINE—
but you can still use as much quick energy as you can get. Have a bowl of Kellojjs’s Corn Flakes for breakfast tomorrow. These crisp, crunchy flakes are full of energy, easy to digest. They’ll set you up for the day.
Kellogg’s are tasty, too, for that hungry feeling before bedtime. Served at restaurants and hotels everywhere. Sold by all grocers.
CORN FLAKES
FATHER CAVANAUGH
(Continued from Page 16)
Rev. Bishop . Francis Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne.
The officers of the solemn requiem mass were the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, celebrant; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University, deacon; the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., subdeacon, and the Rev. William R. Connor, master of ceremonies. Hundreds who were unable to obtain room in the Church, stood outside during the services to. catch a glimpse of the coffin, and utter a last prayer for the repose of the soul of the deceased.
A deviation from the rule of the Congregation of Holy Cross which permits no eulogy over the body of one of its members, was made to allow the Most Rev. Bishop Noll, D.D., bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, to deliver a tribute of heartfelt sincerity to Father Cavanaugh. Bishop Noll characterized the beloved priest as “a profound scholar, a genial gentleman, a serious religious, a wise counselor, a builder of character, whose arms were filled with the zeal of the cross. Bishop Noll referred to his passing with these beautiful sentiments, “This humble, priestly man who glorified in being identified with Christ has gone to join Sorin, Corby, Walsh, and O’Donnell. He has exchanged this life for a more perfect one. He has gone to Christ.”
Notre Dame cannot help but mourn his passing; his absence will be sorely felt for years to come, but, secure in the knowledge that another of her loyal sons now stands in a position of heavenly intercessor for her, she fervently reechoes the thought of Bishop Noll, “may his beautiful soul find everlasting peace.”
MEDICO REVOLUTIONIZES PIPE SMOKING
tobacco.
PATENTED —NOS.
LATEST SHAPES
1.919.959	1.967.585
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY yet $1 only M
(’A ?
This simplte appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and coolingmesh screen interior keeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, rawmouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent
i expectoration. No breaking in. Improves taste and
Nineteen
The makers of W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES will give
$7000.0
In 745 Cash and
Merchandise Prizes
for the best statements of 100 words, or less, on
“WHY I THINK DOUGLAS
ALL-LEATHER CONSTRUCTION
IS BEST”
You’ve worn shoes all your life. Certainly you’ve learned something from all the pairs you’ve bought— expensive, cheap, or medium-priced. The knowledge you’ve picked up—the experiences you’ve had with various shoes—will go a long way toward helping win one of these 745 prizes!
The main idea behind the contest is very simple. For hundreds of years, leather has been recognized as the best possible material for making shoes. In spite of that, many shoes today are built partly of inferior substitutes. However, W. L. Douglas Men’s Shoes for many years have been made on the Douglas ALL-LEATHER standard!
The official title of this contest is “WHY I THINK DOUGLAS ALLLEATHER CONSTRUCTION IS BEST.” Simply tell us why it is to your advantage for Douglas to use leather instead of flimsy substitutes
that rip, crack, tear, and hurt your feet.
Of course, we don’t say that Douglas rubber heels are leather . . . nor do we clain that the patented, Beckwith box-toe is leather. But we do say that Douglas gives you leather in every place where leather should be!
Think what you could do with $1000 and three pairs of shoes every year for the rest of your life! For that matter, think what you
could do with any one of the or merchandise awards in this test-start to buy a car, buy
cash con-new
clothes, pay your tuition, or spruce up your appearance with a new pair of Douglas Shoes!
To enter the contest, you must obtain an Official Contest Blank* from the W. L. Douglas Shoe Store. GET YOUR CONTEST BLANK TODAY. You won’t need to buy a thing!
-The. Official Context Blank contains a lot of helpful information about ALL-LEATHER shoes and leather substitutes, which you. can use in enterinn this contest.
One of 100 New Spring Styles
Douglas prices are $3.50, $4.50,$5.50 Most styles of Douglas Normal-Treds, with patented, scientific, corrective features, S7
FIRST PRIZE ’1000.00 IN CASH and three pairs of shoes each year for the remainder of your life.
SECOND PRIZE .......$250	in cash
and one pair of shoes each year for the remainder of your life.
THIRD PRIZE..........$150	in cash
and one pair of shoes each year for 10 years.
FOURTH PRIZE........$100 in cash
FIFTH PRIZE  .........$75 in cash
FIVE PRIZES.....$25 each, in cash FIFTY PRIZES....$10 each, in cash Six hundred and eighty-five prizes— one pair of Douglas Shoes each.
---------- READ THESE EASY LIBERAL RULES
1
2
3
4
5
Write a hundred-word statement or less, on the subject: “WHY I THINK DOUGLAS ALL-LEATHER CONSTRUCTION IS BEST.”
All entries must be made on an Official Contest Blank which is obtainable at any W. L. Douglas Shoe Store.
Submit as many statements as you like. But each one must be written on a separate Official Contest Blank.
Although the contest is open to men and •women alike, your statement must refer to Douglas Men’s Shoes only.
All statements must be written in English. But grammar, spelling, and punctuation will not necessarily be a basis for selecting the winners. Just use clear, simple words
and the judges will understand you. After all your ideas are what we want—not a demonstration of literary ability.
6 Sign your name and address clearly on each entry.
“T Contest opens March 25, 1935. and closes * May 31. 1935. No entry mailed later than midnight. May 31. 1935, will be permitted to compete for the 745 prizes.
8 Mail all entries to : Contest Department, W. L. Douglas Shoe Company, Blockton. Massachusetts.	'
9 Judges are: F. M. Moffat, President, Tanners Council of America; B. T. Butterworth, Advtg. Mgr., New York Times: Miss Helen Koues. Fashion Director, Good Housekeeping Magazine.
10
Cash and merchandize prizes will be awarded by the judges in order of merit for the best 745 statements on the subject: “WHY I THINK DOUGLAS ALLLEATHER CONSTRUCTION IS BEST.”
nAll decisions of the judges will be final. In case of ties, duplicate prizes will be awarded.
. o Contest is open to every one except em-1 X ployees of the W. L. Douglas Shoe Co. and their families, W. L. Douglas Dealers and their families, and employees of our advertising agency.
1 3 No entries will be returned.
a Each entry becomes the property of the 1 W. L. Douglas Shoe Company, for publication or otherwise.	’
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE
In South Bend — 210 South Michigan Street
W. L. Douglas Shoes Are Also Sold by Reliable Shoe-Dealers Everywhere.	Open Saturday Evenings.
Twenty
The Scholastic |