
Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share inof the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
-------------------------------r----­
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:-----­Address: ______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager 
Scholastic Magazine 
303 LaFortune Student Center 
, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLlJME 136, NUMBER 10 FOUNDED 1867 NOVEMBER 17, 1994 
Core Beliefs 
6Inspired by the religion section of their Core class and funded by the Alumni Association, six stu­dents headed to Washington, DC, over fall break to immerse themselves in other religions. 



Order on the Court 
After some tough years, Notre Dame's
1 0 

Men's Basketball program is on the re­bound Talented freshmen working with an experienced core ofupperclassmen may give the Irish the boost they're hoping for. 

From the Desk of ...
12In the first of a two-part series, Scholastic . Magazine offers a peek into the offices of four campus personalities. 

FEATURES 
Final Verdict? · Oanh Vo ........................................................................................................................................... 3 On the Verge of Greatness• T. Ryan Kennedy........................................................................................................ 9 The Awful Truth• Chris Meyers ................................................................................. .-...........................................17 No Compromise• Josef Evans .................................................................................................................................19 DART Distress · Mary Kate Morton ........................................................................................................................ 23 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Managing Editor ............................................ 2 
Coming Distractions ................................................~ ..20 
Campus Watch ............................................................:.8 
On Other Campuses.;1.......................................; ••••••••••21 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................16 
Comics ...................... :':·,··~-····· ........................................22 
Out of Bounds .............................................................18 
Parting Shot .................... ~ ............................................24 


Last winter, I was interviewing Athletic DirectorDick Rosenthal for an article on Notre Dame's on-going relationship with NBC Sports. Whenever you have a chance to sit and talk with Dick Rosenthal for any length oftime, conversation tends to jump from subject to subject under the general heading of Notre Dame Sports. So when the discussion was about basketball, I asked the A.D. ifNotre Dame would ever enter a conference. I don't remember the precise words now, but Mr. Rosenthal indicated that he was at least philosophically opposed to conference. play because if ateam has worked very hard all season and loses the conference tournament, there is no NCAA trip that year. 
Later that winter, I sat in on a lecture by Frank Deford. He was discussing trends in American sports journalism, but when he took questions from the audience, he was asked what he thought the state of American sports would be in the yeai 2000. Deford's final prediction was that Notre Dame would"finally bebeginning to discuss entering an atl1letic conference." 
In thespringoflastyear, with tl).eNCAA tournamentreadytobegin withoutNotreDame for the third year in arow, Sports Editor Ryan Kennedyinterviewedcollege basketball sage Dick Vitale. Kennedy's question was inevitable: Why has Notre Dame been out of tournamentplay for solong,and whatis the solution? Vitalewas as emphatic as ever: Notre Dame must join a conference~ 
And over the summer, that is exactly what Notre Dame did. The fact the Fighting Irish basketball team will enter BigEastplay next season is old news. But where does that leave this season, and what does Big East membership mean for the future? 
With three talentedfreshmen, DerekManner,PatrickGarrityandBrianWatkins,joining the stars of last year, Ryan Hoover, Keith Kurowski and Lamarr Justice, Head Coach John MacLeod could post a surprisingly successful season. This week's cover story by Annette Brawley considers Fighting Irish basketball prospects this year. Brawley also discusses MacLeod' s recruiting class for next season, ranked second in the nation by USA Today. 
One other thing I learned from discussing Notre Dame basketball with Dick Rosenthal 
. . . 

was that John MacLeod is a more talented coach that recentperformance has indicated, a sentiment echoed by Dick Vitale. IfMacLeodis that good andhis recruits aregetting better each year, then the NCAA Tournament cannot be far away. 
Also in this issue 

Detractors have called Notre Dame "Catholic Disney Land." U.S. News and World Report rated Notre Dame the best Catholic university in the country. 1ri any event, there is no question that Notre Dame, IN, issaturatedwith Catholicism. In an effortto investigate and understand other world religions, six students traveled to Washington, DC, with funding from the Alumni Association; and spent fall break learning about everythingfrom Unitarianism tolslam. Jillian Pagliocca writes about their excursion on pages six and seven. 
A few weeks off 

. . . . 
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, Scholastic Magazine will be back on December 8. 
Mark J. Mitchell IV Managing Editor 

Cover photo of by Kevin Klau. Table of Contents photos by Kevin Klau and Brent Tadsen. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 17, 1994 




Final Verdict? 
. . . 
. . One year after the death ofMara Fox, members ofthe Notre Dame community react to John Rita's acquittal 
byOan,hVo 

Gently they go, t~ beautiful, the tender, the kind. Quietly they go, the intelligent; the witty, the brave:. I know. But I do not approve, and I am not resigned. · · · 
In front ofLy~ns Hall sits a bench bearing these words in the mem_oryof:t-4araRoseFox. A ·. ,1,, , year after the death. of Fox, , · ' 
there are still many. who mourn ~ liedoss. , · . · · · · ''Bemg outher:e at Nout Dan:ie has really'been helpful for me," saidNicoleBoudreau;Mara'sbest friend .from Virginia who came out this past weekend for the Fun . Run. "It's nice to be out here and see how many 'people cared for Mara and to see ~le be/.ng so supportiveofherfami.iy. I'llljust glad: thaF.she .was ,so happy. here the last two months of her life." For Boudreau the pastyear has. . been.a difficult one: Though Fox and Boudreau w~re inseparable in high school, she hasreceivedlittle support from her friends~ and en­countered difficulties in trying to establish a scholarship fund in Virginiain Mara'sname. "Being out he.re.has really h·.elped ~,., me to realize that lean put things ·

/'f.,( 

behind me and mqve ori with my ......""",1.,_'.__·~.--'--"----'----'-'-<=-<"-"' life;" said Boudreau. . . . . 
· The courts foundJohn Rita; the Notre Dame law studentwho hit Fox then left the scene of the accident, not guilty ofdriving while intoxicated, Many students, faculty, staff and members of the South Bend.community have come together since the verdict to show Fox's family and friendsa tremendous amount of support. 
"I read about the run in the.paper and because of the verdict, our 
McEneaneyofSouth Bend. "We don 'tevenknowher, but we were very upset with the verdict It was something we could do." 
"I think it's wonderful how this whole community has gotten together to support Mara. It's overwhelming," said Boudreau. "Shewasorilyherefortwoandahalfmonths,andmanydidn'teven know her, yet it's amazing to me the support coming from this community. It kind of restores my faith in people." 
:Mruly students expressed outrage and disbelief at the outcome of 1 ;1 the trial, "I wanted to believe that 1-'/ the verdict was the other way . ·, around where he was acquitted of / the hit and mn and it was dead­(f,· locked on whetherornothecaused -~ · herdeath,"saidjuniorMariGan:ia. 7"LJ'.,n"·"~ "I could not understand how• that many people could come to the same decison to acquit Rita. It 
· didn't seem right" 
According to Becky Bode . of MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Driving), theverdictfrom the trial was disappointing. Representa­tives from MADD had closely fol­lowed the trial and expressed dis­beliefas to how the jury came to its · 
· conclusion. "We know that we can no longer continue to call it a .drinking and driving case because the charges have been dropped but as concerned citizens of Saint Jo­seph County we do wantto fight the fact that he did leave the scene of a fatal crash. I hope that this is 

IIZL/J.&12~~~~...J not over so that there can be some justification for this so that Mara can rest in peace and her family can begin to heal," she said. 
\ 

. \
On November 12, exac_~y one. year.· after the death o.fFox, Lyons Hall sponsored a Fun Run to raise money for the . Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. According to Lyons' Hall rector, Sister Kathleen Beatty, there was a little over $5,000 dollars 


scholarship. 

"The underlying reason fortheFunRun was to raisemoney," said Merritt, "but as the trial .continued and especially in light of the verdict, the run has taken on a whole new meaning." 
Over 360 students, faculty, staff and members of the South Bend community came to join the women of Lyons Hall for the second annual Mara Fox Fun Run. The Fun Run was first sponsored by Lyons Hall last year as a means to raise money for the scholarship 
"I think that maybe we were a little bit naive. Mara's father, Mr. McCarthy, and I graduated from Catholic universides and I guess we just expected the university to be held to a higher standard ..The ·university did nothing. They were sorry, but they were not · forthcoming." -Theresa McCarthy, mother of MaraFox 
fund in Fox's name. 

Heather Broering, coordinator of the Fun Run, expressed sur­prise at thenumberof participants who tumed outfor the run, many of whom participated just to show their support 
''To actually get that many people out ofbed at eight o'clock in the morning to run is amazing. It tells a lot about the Notre Dame family and the community, especially since maybe one percent of them really knew Mara," said Broering. ''We really want to thank all the people who came out and supported the Fun Run. It was a great success and we want to do it again next year." 
Laura Merritt, co-president of Lyons Hall, believes that the overwhelming support shown by everyone will help the family and friends of Fox heal from the loss of this young woman. 
"Let's put this trial behind us," she said. ''This is a way for us to rememberMara, and a chance for us to gather together and to show that we can deal with this situation." 
Also present at the Fun Run were representatives from the local MADD Chapter with petitions requesting Prosecutor Michael Barnes to retry John Rita on the charge ofleaving the sceneof a fatal crash. 
Even a year after Fox's death, there is still a lot ofhealing left 
todo, especially for those who closest to her. Sophomores 
Jennifer Ramirez and Kathy Policy, Fox's roommates, and Rebecca Hinck were with Fox on the night of the accident They reacted to the verdict with disbeliefand sadness, expressed frustra­tion with the administration's failure to act immediately after the death ofFox. 
Contrary to popular rumor, students whose roommate passes away do not get rewarded academically. With the exception of a few understanding professors, they were still expected and re­quired to keep up with their classwork and take exams on time. 
"We would all sit up and study late at night with a pot of coffee onlytorealizethatweweren'tgettinganywherebecauseourminds weren't absorbing the information,".recalled Policy. This espe­cially angered the women in light of the fact that Rita finished his semester at his sister's home in New York where he stayed after the accident 
Fox's mother, Theresa McCarthy, was especially disappointed in the administration's passivity in dealing with this particular case. Du Lac, the student life policies and procedures handbook, states that "the university through the Office of Residence Life, 
·reserves the right to summarily suspend any student charged with a felony during the pendency of his or her criminal proceedings." McCarthy questions why the university chose to let Rita graduate with honors last spring even after he was charged with two felony counts. 
During the trial it was revealed that Rita was required to attend 
several alcohol counseling sessions. Other than that, the family is . 
unaware of what punishments. he received. The university has 
refused to discuss any diss;iplinary. actions regarding this case, 
stating the matter was strictly an internal affair. · 
"I think that maybe we were a little bit naYve," said McCarthy. "Mara's father, Mr. McCarthy, and I graduated from Catholic universities and I guess we just expected the university to be held to a higher standard. The university did nothing. They were sorry but they were not forthcoming." 
"I think it's really a shame how the administration walks around 
"They are supposedly the head of this 'family,' yet where have they been? No onefrom the administration showed up at the Fun Run or during any day ofthe trial . ... A member oftheir 'Notre Dame family' wa~ killed·and I haven't seen their presence in all of this." -lAura Merritt, Lyons Hall co­president 
talkingabouttheconceptofthe'NotreDame' family,yethowhave they shown their support for Mara's death?" questions Merritt ''They are supposedly the head ofthis 'family,' yetwherehavethey been? No one from the administration showed up at the Fun Run or during any day of the trial. Maybe for legal reasons, they may have to stayoutofit but I see no integrityon their behalf. A member of their 'Notre Dame family' was killed and I haven't seen their presence in all of this." . 
-
Despite the university officials' lack of response, McCarthy still expresses gratitude to the Notre Dame community and the South Bend/Mishawaka community for their overwhelming support. "The last couple of weeks· would have been absolute misery without friends from the community and especially Sister Kathleen and the women of Lyons' Hall and I mean that from the bottom of my heart," said McCarthy. She credits someofherhealingto being with the women of Lyons' Hall. According .to Merritt, Lyons Hall as a whole has been deeply affected by the loss of Fox. Throughout the two-week trial, many of the women in the dorm attended the hearings. After sitting through the testimony that was presented, the hews of the verdict from the trial was especially devastating to the donn. "It would have just been nice to hear the defense side say that Rita was guilty and to not put the blame on Mara," said sophomore Jamie Mathews. "I'm not saying that he is a menace to society but it would have been nice for him to own up to his actions." 
Just as people responded to the verdict with shock, there was 
were many questions raised about the trial itself. McEneaney 
expressed disappointment in the way the police handled the case. 
"I felt that they should have done some of the things differently and hope that they will next time," she said. "Maybe they should have done the. test again. Hopefully they will learn from this 
a 
experience." 
The verdict from the trial left many to wonder where the justice was in the legal system. "Mara Fox is the victim in this case," said Beatty. "Whatlfind very unfairis that it seems that currently under our legal system the victim is getting the blame." 
According to Saint Kathleen Beatty, from remarks made several times throughout the trial, the defense tried to shift theblame toFox for causing her own death. "Itwas like they were saying that it was Mara's fault that she was killed for walking on the road despite the fact that the people who were with her claimed she was not on the road and despite the fact that numbers of cars had already passed that same group of people walking minutes before," she said. 
''The most important thing now," said Policy, "is to continue raising money for the scholarship and to keep Mara's memory alive." 
Fox's family hopes to pursue another trial because according to McCarthy the last verdict sent out a poor message to the student body and the community. ''The message sent was that if you do drinkand drive and there is a mishap, circumstances can be worked in your favor You can drink and drive and kill someone and the possibility certainly exists that you can get off scot-free. That is wrong," said McCarthy. "Our family has been devastated and victimized. It's not over 'til it's over." 0 
Junior Oanh Vo is co-president ofLyons Hall. 
'1illfj~ II  SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! Light Appetites: Big Appetites: 6 Inch Cold Cut Combo 6 Foot Party Sub .$1.49! • SR 23 At Iro11wood • US 31 N (By North Village Mall)  

-



First inspired by topics

Roadtrip 
of 
discussed in their sophomore year Core class, six Notre Dame students devised a plan 
·which enabled them to experience religious groups other than

Faith 
their own 



AINeiman,assistantdeanoftheCollege their sincerity from the start. by Jillian Pagliocca ofArts and Letters, and director of the Arts "Iwas skepticalat first," admittedTrifone. and Letters Core course, described the "I investigated the students' commitment
I:all started with a butt outside the li­sophomore Core requirement as, "a box of to the project and discussed it with fellow brary," said Allison Martin, recalling samples of candy." Hishopeisthatstudents administrators. I was hesitant at first to the origin of the trip's plan. First in­are inspired by at least one aspect of the allocate Alumni Association funds for a 
spired by the religion section of their Core curriculum and will pursue this interest bunch of students that might spend it for fun classes, six inquiring minds came up with a outside the classroom. Neiman expressed over fall break." After meeting with the plan totaste-testthe flavors of various world how impressed he was by the motivation group and witnessing the preparation that religions. For juniors Martin, Kathleen the students used in pursuing the project had gone into their itinerary and mission Bergin,KatieLawler,SeanMoranandJesse Heespecially liked the multi-faceted nature ·statement,. he was impressed by their dedi­Newman, as well as senior Chris Shaw, the of the week-long excursion which enabled cation. image of a religious exploration was gradu­the former Core students to simultaneously Although he agreed to subsidize a large allyand magically transcribed from mind to explore questions of society and spiritual­part of the trip, Trifone wanted them to paper. ''Everyone's ideas all seemed to ity. contribute some money as well. In addition conie together," said Lawler. "I like the idea of students taking charge to supplying the students, with financial 
Over fall break, these six students of their own education," said Ava Collins, support, Trifone offered the use of the stretched the bounds of Catholicism and assistant dean of the College of Arts and Alumni Association's telephone and fax extended their education into the world's Letters. Part of thepreliminary research for machine. He was especially excited by the classroom. Whilemany studentswerecatch­the trip brought the six enthusiasts to her idea of Notre Dame students wor~g as ing up on sleep, wrapped in the familiarity office. "I was totally delighted when they ambassadors in the areas ofsocial and com­ofhome, thesesix students trekked to Wash­came in," said Collins, who encourages munity service. ington, DC, to explore the unknown. After students to escape the structure of power The students were excited, too. After meeting with a few administrators and en­and authority found within classroom their meeting with Trifone, they ran out of gaging in conversations that often saw the boundaries. the alumni office and danced all the way pink hours of the morning, they sculpted Two weeks before their departure, the down the front stairs of the Administration and perfected their mission statement group approached the Alumni Association Building. They had initially been con­
"To create a learning experience that topetitionforfinancialsupport Withmoney cerned with expenses of the journey, which goes beyond the classroom and challenges from the sale of a special collector's edition included food, travel arrangements and students to take charge of their education Rudy video, Ed Trifone, director of Alumni sleeping accomodations. 
through the exploration of the fundamental Community Service, ultimately agreed to Before visiting any of the religious sites, issues of faith and gender and to translate underwrite the majority of the project's the six Notre Dame explorers stopped off in these fmdings into social action." costs. However, he was not convinced of Milville, Delaware, where they washed windows,clearedaway garbage andplanted mums in an Hispanic community called Twin Pines. While Lawler and Moran aidedresidentsoftheapartmentcomplexin filling out housing contracts, Newman played soccer with some of the neighbor­hood children. That night, the students encircled a bonfire on the Delaware shore until five in the morning, sharing reflec­tions and reading poetry. "It was the high­light ofthe week," recalled Newman. 

Rising early the next morning, they trav­eled to the Unitarian Universalist Church in Washington. The Notre Dame emissaries spoke with a seminarian who was studying to become a minister. A combination of many religions, Unitarianism alternately focuses on the To­rah, theKoran and theBible. Thefact thatthis faith com­bines all religions was very attrac­tive to the stu­dents. Unhin­dered by the con­fines of a hierar­chy, Unitarianism bases its faith on a living doctrine, not an historical creed. Reflecting on the visit, "Uni­tarianism was ev­erything we had hoped for in a church," said Newman. 
Astarkcontrast to the open­minded, equality­based Unitarian church was the Is­lamic Center. According to the discon­certed students who visited the mosque, "women were partitioned_ off in the back and were not considered at all equal." They were pleased, though, by the lack of an 
· organizational hierarchy and emphasis on peace. "No ministers or priests get in the way of worship," explained Lawler. 
''The Church of the Savior was very welcoming," said Martin. This community is organized into a system ofmissioncircles. The small size enabled the visiting students and parishioners to meet one another in a relaxed, informal atmosphere. The stu­dentswereintrigued tofindmembersopenly discussing personal problems and relying upon one another for support. More like a family than a congregation, the Church of the Savior stressed open interpretation and community worship. 

The excursion not only provided the stu­dents with insight into religious and gender issues, but also encouraged them to con­sidernew waysofthinking. DouglasLabier, a Zen Buddhist at the Center for Adult Development, explained his religion's phi­losophy as a "way of life, not a faith." This way of life calls followers to approach the world with a beginner's mind, approaching each experience as ifit has never been done before. 
At Temple Sinai, a liberal congregation 
of reformed Jews, the students met with Rabbi Mindy Portnoy. The only female rabbi in Washington, Rabbi Portnoy ex­plained what it was like to bea female rabbi in a traditionally male role. The students toured the temple and saw the Torah, the book of doctrine on which the Jewish faith is based. 
Aside from exploring alternative possi­bilities to Catholicism, the students also met with Linda Arnold at Catholic Univer­sity of America. Arnold converted from Judaism to Catholicism and she believes that she has been called to be a Catholic. Instead ofleaving the church which refuses to elevate her to the level of priest (her greatest gripe), she has chosen to stay in the church and will try to change it She be-­lieves that God calls some people to adopt a new faith instead of the one into which they were born, and viewed the students' questas an"incredibly hopeful experience." 
Brother Maurice Flood, a Trappist monk, intrigued the students more than any of the other figures visited during their pilgrimmage. "When I first met him, I thoughthe was mad," said Moran. Maurice, as his six disciples affectionately call him, talked to the students about such varying issues as eating disorders, bread-baking, relationships and love. When they an­nounced their afternoon plans to go hiking 
on the Appalachian Trail, they were not atall smprisedwhen Mauricevoicedade­sire to accompany them. 
As theyjourneyed between crags and creeks, Maurice spoke of monastic life and the bizarre economywhichsus­tains their humble lifestyle. ''Theyfol­lowed Maurice aroundlikesilly, lost puppies all day," said Lawler. Their departurewas teary­eyed, despite the brief time that they had spent together. "If you could ever know someone who found the secret of life, he's found it," 
Bergin said. 
"This was a miracle trip," said Bergin. Maurice and all of the other personalities that they met on the journey have been permanently documented. Lawler kept a notebook of the week-long exploration, whileMoran'scamerawascontinuallycap­turing those Kodak moments. The students plan to organize the collected literature, personal commentaries, and photographs into ii single volume. "It was so worth­while. lgotso much out ofit," said Lawler. "I think we are only a few of the many students out there who want to do some­thing so spiritual." 0 



Camrus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Cynicism, sarcasm and nastiness (as usual) 

Idon't care what you think of Reagan, and I certainly don't care whether you make jokes about his views, personal traits or those of any such other public figure. However, making light ofa debili­tating disease such as Alzheimer's suggests a total lack of class and intelligence." ­Bitter law student (redundantredundant) in · a letter to the Gipp. "Don't worry, even ifReagan read last week's campus watch, he won't remem­ber." -The Gipper 
BETTER THAN NO-DOZ 
The Gipp has had two friends approach him lately, offering him a wonder pill that gives you incredible alertness power and total retention during long study hours. the Gipp,alwayslookingforthatsafeover-the­counter amphetamine substitute, picked up a bottle of these pills. Suddenly a totally foreign wave of sensibility came over the Gipper and he read the label on the back of the bottle: Do not take ifthere is a history of heart disease; do not take ifthereis a history of leukemia; may cause enlarged prostate; may cause hallucinations ifcombined with othermedication. Shockedandhorrifiedby thewarninglabel,theGippbegantakingthe pills by the handful. 
GIPPER,PJ. 
As the fountain of all knowledge and truth on the campus, the Gipp has been asked by Campus Watchers with a burning desire to know exactly what those struc­tures are between Galvin and the CCMB. The Gipper investigated: they are entirely free-standing things with no doors and win­dows, and they are shaped like big coffins. TheGippwentinsideGalvin andlookedfor access to them from the basement-th.ere was none. A little man. in a white coat approachedandasked"Vatareyoudoing?" 

Before the Gipp could run, a burly German man named Jurgen held him bound and ... enough with the Nancy Drew mystery. The Gipper's best bets as to what the Galvin pods are: intercontinental ballistic missile silos; elevator shafts to Monk Malloy's command and control burtker/fallout shel­ter, elevator shafts to Monk Malloy' s after­hours club "Palace O'Pleasure;" landing pads for the aliens that built Stepan Center. 
MACHO MAN, PLEASE 
The Gipp hears from his mole inside the band of the Fighting Irish that the half-time show at Air Force will drag out a very tired YMCA again. Look, it was cute the first time, but twice and the Gipperis wondering if the band director isn't expressing some latent desires to be the Indian from the Village People. What is worse is that, just like wehad to endureZorbaatevery basket­ball game because that was one of the band's half time shows last year, look for YMCA to fill theJACC with brotherly love (if you know what the Gipp means). 
TRAPPED IN O'SHAG 
Ever since they dropped the ceiling in O'Shaughnessey, the Gipp feels like he should be running for a big piece of cheese at the end of the hall. ·· ·Those summer renovations took an unattractive hall and made it downright ugly. But that's not the point of this discussion. Thepointis that the Gipper hears that O'Shaughnessey is the next hall which has been slated to be ab­sorbed by the "Bureaucracy That Ate The Campus." You see, when they close the Main Building so they can dump about$50 million into adding an upper deck to it ( or something like that), all of the administra­tors will move to Grace -and Hurley­Hayes-Healy-andnowO'Shaughne$Sey. The Main Building must go down about eight stories into the ground ifthere are that many people in there. And if they have to take a another building, take DeBartolo Hospital, please. 
That's it, that's all for this week. The Gipp has one final warning to impart to his friends in the College ofEngineering: in the upcoming Star Trek movie, Captain Kroc dies. Prepare. yourselves properly, engi­neers; the Gipper knows it will be traumatic for you when your hero passes into the next hyperspace -wear black bands on your pocket protectors to show your mourning. TheGipp'sonlyquestion: willKirk's toupee die with him? . 

· SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• NOVEMBER 17, 1994 

On the Verge ofGreatness 
Massachusetts and North Carolina should overpower Arkansas, the O'Bannon brothers and Cherokee Parks this year 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
We should have seen this coming: the showdown that destiny de­sires between the University of MassachusettsandNorthCarolina this April in Seattle. Let's go back one year ago, to November, to the Pre-Season NIT at Madi­son Square Garden. Ononesideofthecourt stood a monster, North Carolina, the most talented squad to play at Chapel Hill in years with flashy recruits and venerable veterans. Massachusetts was the upstart pupil, led by a young, fiery coach in John Calipari. . But under the wrath of Lou Roe and · slender freshman phenom Marcus Camby, Massachusetts upset Carolina in overtime. Ironically, though,both powers peaked too early, earning 28 wins apiece during the regular season, but losing When It Counts. North Carolina Head Coach Dean Smith had too much player talent and too many egos to confront, not to mention the diffi­culty he had in figuring which five out of the eight stars he would put on the floor. That thing called chemistry never clicked. April brought a tainted goodbye to the amazing class of Eric Montross, Brian Reese, Der­rick Phelps and Kevin Salvadori, and to the memories of a 1993 national title. Massa­chusetts' Calipari had the chemistry, bu this team was just learning how to win. They were young and restless .... There's every reason ~ the world to believe that Massachusetts and Carolina will meet in Seattle. But.one cannot over-. look the dismissal of other top teams. Ar­kansas may still have Corliss Williamson and Scotty Thurman to hoist them toward No. 1, but the last time a college basketball teamrepeated wasUCLA of the 1970s. (Eat your hearts out, statistics freaks.) Speaking of third-ranked UCLA, if the Ross brothers of Notre Dame can rattle the O'Bannon brothers, then UCLA is going nowhere. Finally, you've got to respect Duke's Chero­kee Parks for his talent, but that flaming hairdo and those foggy goggles are futile without the services of Grant Hill. That rounds out five of the top six ranked teams and the only true contenders for a champi­onship. Butdestiny hasalreadysetarematch between Massachusetts andNorth Carolina in Seattle, for many reasons. 

Getting back tobusiness, Coach Calipari has created his own monster. He doesn't botherto be cute. He knows his team should be good, good enough to be ranked No. 2 in mostpreseason polls, and he is eager to find 

out how good. Calipari heads into his·sev­enth season with his entire 1993 roster. Massachusetts lost no one. The team's gem is senior All-American Lou Roe, who boasted a career performance against No. 1 North Carolina last year. There's more. The six-foot-eleven-inch center Camby has the chance to blossom into something spe­cial. Camby scored a season-high 32 points in a season-ending loss to Maryland. Then he became one of just five freshmen in the NCMDivision I to have over 100-blocked shots, showing that there is no limit to his game. There is a fearsome depth to this Massac:husetts team that includes three all­league candidates, at least one, probably two All-Americans, including a Player of the Year possibility. 
All of this, along with Calipari, one of college basketball's best coaches, spells NCM Finals for UMass. Furthermore, Calipari has been rumored to be leaving Massachusetts for years. With an impres­sive sophomore campaign and perhaps 20 pounds added to his slender frame, Camby might drop himself into the NBA lottery and bolt at the end ofthe season. If Massa­chusetts ends up in the finals, Calipari could followCambyrightoutthedoor,andnoone could blame him. This is his year. This is the team. 

The 1993 fab recruiting class of Carolina has an youthful attitude ofegotism that beat them last year, but could get them far this year. The conflicts between the seniors and freshmen last year are gone, and the Dean magic should be back. Six-foot-ten-inch sophomore Rasheed Wallace intimidates at center and is a legitimate All-America can­didate, while fellow high-flying and gum­flapping sophomore Jerry Stackhous.e should provide second team All-America punch. These players are only sophomores, butthey could have started all year last year and carried the Tar Heels just as far. Oh, we forgot to mention senior guard Donald Williams, hungry to rebound from an in­jury-plagued junior year. Many forget that Williams was the hero andMVP of the '93 finals against Michigan and will be driven by memories of a lost title. 
While there are several factors that dic­tate why theMassachusetts Minutemen will play in the finals, there is really only one for the Tar Heels. They are North Carolina. Like Notre Dame in football, excellence is expected in Chapel Hill every year, espe­cially after a rough season. Both teams,.· Massachusetts. and Carolina, have every reasontomakeittothefinals. D 


. ·. . ..
,.

Were 


Back! 
The addition ofthree strongfreshmen to a solid core ofupperclassmen, alongwithits best recruiting class ever, hasfans buzzing about Notre·. Dam_e ba~ketbaUonce aga~n 
people in . darkness. 

by AmietteBrawley This is thefirst annual· Midnight Mania,. the
T:e clock strikes midnight The band beginning. of N6tr~ stops playing ..~e lights go out, Dame'~ basketball sea­leaving thousands of screaming son. 
Thousands of fans ;,;:CD began, to pour into. the 
, • 

f JoyceAthleticandCon­
i ·vocationCenteranhour before theteam tookthe court. ':'The fan support ~as great I thought Joining the Big East has already had a !was in a different place for a second. I · positiveeffecfon thelrishwheriitcoines to couldn't imagine that many people awake · recruiting. High school seniors Doug at midnight, let alone in the J ACC," senior Gottlieb,Gary Bell,PhilHickeyandAntoni 
. guard Lamarr Justice said. Wyche recently signed to come. to• Notre 
.Fan support for the Irish has been low in Drune next year ... They turned· down top the pastfew years as the team. has str:uggled programs at Kansas, .UCLA and schools \vith tough schedules. However, interest in from the Big Ten, Pac Ten and Big East the team is nowrekindlingin anticipation of conferences.· These players have given the Notre Dame joining the ~ig East Confer-Irishasecondsrankedrecruitingclass. Only ence next year. Much ofthe talk this season Arkansas ·boasts · a more heralded ·crop. 
, had c_entered on what this new allegiance ''These athletes chose Notre Dame over. -willrrieanforlrishhoops. "Ithinkthatitwill good programs.They chose to be a part of be_a positive change for Notre· Darny bas-. . . atean1 thatis still building. They accepted ketball. Now, when,a team comes to play at· · the challenge to make Notre Dame one of Notre Dame, something will be on the line ·the topbasketball programs in thecountry," 
·more than ever before because theoutcoine .. ,MacLeod explained. : .· ofthegamewillaffecttheconferencestand-· ·. Unfortunately, with all the hype about ings," Notre .Dame Head Coach John :joiningtheBigEastnextyear,manypeople: .MacLeod said. . ,, have overlooked this year's teain. For the 



. . .. 


players, the forgetfulness might notbe such a bad thing. "There is no pressure on us this year. This is supposed to be a rebuilding yearfor Notre Dame.Thecriticshavepicked us to finish the season below .500. We're the only ones that expect ourselves to do anything this year," junior Ryan Hoover explained.FreshmanDerekManneragreed. "I think we can surprise some teams in our schedule this year, because they won't be looking out for us," Hoover continued. 
ExpectationsarenothighforNotreDame this year because the team experienced heavy personnel losses due to graduation. Five seniors from last year's squad are gone, including stand out Monty Williams whoisnowwiththeN~wYorkKnicks;Last year, Williams was the go-to guy for Notre Dame, and his departure left a big void in the team's rebounding and scoring catego­ries. This year's team must fill the gap. ''That's college basketball. A good player leaves and other players have to step in and fill his spot This year, the team has to step up and take Monty's place," MacLeodsaid. 
Although many people believe Notre Dame will not be able to recover from the loss of Williams, the team remains more optimistic. "There are people on this team who are capable of stepping up and contrib­uting this year. Ifwe can get three guys to average eight points a game, we can cover 

Only a junior, plagued with inju­Ryan Hoover 
ries throughout his 
has the 

career at Notre
chance to establish Drune, but is now 
himself as healthy and is also one of the 
expected to have a
recent Irish 

bigyearforthelrish.
greats like L.aPhonso Irish fans who _Ellis or Monty packed the JACC Williams. 
for last year's Lou­
Last season, 

isvillegameremem­
Hoover set a team record ber Kurowski' s 
sharpshooting that 
consecutive 

included a three
free throws 

pointerwith no time
and sunk 80 three­leftto send thegame pointers. 
into overtime. 
The brunt of the responsibilityinside the paint will fall on the shoulders of 6'4" senior Billy Taylor, the only Irish post player who is an upper-
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 17, 1994 
Monty's points," Justice noted. Having several teammates take theplace of one star player could be beneficial in the long run. "Now we will have six or seven guys con­tributing, and teams won't be able to con­
"These athletes chose Notre Dame over good programs. They acceptedthe challenge 
_ 
to.make-Notre Dame one ofthe top basketballprograms in the country.'' -Coach MacLeod on · recruits Bell, Gottlieb, ­Hickey, and Wyche 
centratetheirdefenseononeortwopeople,'' said Hoover. 
Hoover himself is expected to be one of the team's main contributors as the leading scorer left from last year.· Guard Keith 
Kurowski has been 
classman. Six-footeleven-inchsophomores Ma_tt Gotsch and Marcus Young (formerly Hughes) will also need to step up their post play if Notre Dame is to have a successful inside game. 
This year's roster includes three fresh­man, 6'6" Manner, 6'8" Pat Garrity, and 6'9" Brian Watkins. These rookies will not have the luxury of an entire season to ease into college hoops, because ifNotre Dame is to have a successful season, the three will need t(? step in and make an impact ''I just want to help out however I can. Whatever the coaches tell me to do, I'll try to do it," Manner said. 
If everyone contributes as expected, MacLeod is optimistic about the upcoming season. "I think we have a very interesting team this year, with good team chemistry.If ourearlyworkoutsareanyindicationofthe rest ofthe season, we're going to have a lot offun this year," he said. 
As always, Notre Dame has some tough games on their schedule this year. Top ranked teams likelndianaandKentuckyare going to try toruin any fun forMacLeodand his team."It'sacompetitiveschedule,butif we take advantage of it and we're able to play above the level of the good teams, and then turn around and still play above the level of the mediocre teams, we can accom­plish some major goals,'7 Justice said. ­
One of those goals is an invitation to the NCAA tournament, something that Notre Dame has not earned since 1990. (Notre Dame ranks sixth in the nation with 13AP Top Ten finishes, and has competed in the NCAA tournament23 out'of 40 times.) "To make the tournament, we will need to win twenty-phis games this ·season,_ which I think is a legitimate goal this year. If we play as hard as we can, the wins and losses will take care of themselves," Hoover ex­plained. 
One thingMacLeodlikesaboutthis year's schedule is the number of home games the Irish will play. "We have sixteen liome games this year, which will give us achance to build a relationship with the fans here. Eventually, we want to get the studentbody back on this side. of the street and in the JACC again," MacLeod said. 
"We're on the right track, but it's a slow, tedio~s process to build up a team. There is no quick fix for success. We aren't there .yet, but we are just about ready to make our move." D 


The first of a two part series 
Kevfn.Klau 

Beyond the 
Sidelines 

An inside look at where Coach Holtz does the rest of his pacing
In the business world, the prime spot is the corner office. Lou Holtz inherited the corner office in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center when 
he took over as head football coach, but there is one drawback:sinceheisonthefirstfloor,theblindsonhis two windows mustremain drawn atall times so thathis office does not become a display case. What he loses in views, he compensates for with pictures. Around thewalls of Holtz' sofficearelargeframed photosofthestadiwn, thecampus, the dome, his 1988 team, four preceding coaches and, of course, his family. 
When it comes down to it, Holtz's office is really a small blue room, but the coach makes the most ofevery inch. On one side he keeps his desk and book'shelves, and on the other, he has a sitting and meetingarea with alarge wrap-around couch and a coffee table. 
"Coach Faust just had his desk and the couch in here, and that's the way I kept it at first But when the players came in to talk to me, they tended to slouch on the couch · and that was not the atmosphere I wanted. So now I have very hard and uncomfortable chairs for them to sit in." But the two black wooden chairs are the only uncomfortable orhard things in theoffice which tends to lookmorelikealivingroom thana workspace. 
"I hate to have a messy office. So two years ago I had afriend donate these cabinets," Holtz says as he points to the floor-to-ceiling wooden book Kevin Klau shelves which tum the comer behind his desk. On thebusiness side, he has a television and two shelvesfull ofgame tapes, and above that is· another shelf filled with notebooks of game breakdowns. But the space behind coach's desk is filled with gifts and mementos from over the years. Among the assort­ment of game balls, autographed baseballs, and family pic­tures are also oddities like the book of football team mottos made by kids in adetention home, and a statuette ofa salesman with a group ofEskimos. That last item was given to Holtz by Harvey McKay ofMinnesota, who said to Holtz, "You could sell ice-boxes to the Eskimos." 
Because he often has to shower and change between prac­tices and meetings, Holtz has a closet full ofclothes; and a pair of black running shoes thrown behind his desk is a sign ofhis constant activity. "I like this office because it's compatible with our staffmeeting room, and because to get back here you have to go past our receptionist And I like it because it's at Notre Dame -that's the best reason." And coach's only complaint, "I've got to go outside to get to my car." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ NOVEMBER 17, 1994 

r l 
Left Top: Coach Holtz behind the desk where he writes the plays. On the top of his desk he has a copy of The Power of Positive Thinking. Behind him are just a few of his prized possessions Including (left middle) a gold razorback pig, given to him by University of Arkansas fans. When he was given the pig, he was told "to put the razor back In Notre Dame football." Beside the pig Is a picture from Inside the lockerroom after the 1988 champion­ship. Left Bottom: In front of Coach Holtz's desk are two "hard and uncomfortable" chairs which keep players from slouching when they talk to him.· In the background,Coach's meeting area sur­rounded by his favorite pictures, Including photos of Holtz with Presidents Reagan, Bush and Clinton. Right Top: Coach John Macleod describes the fine artwork on display In his office, an Impressionist painting of the Kentucky Derby, the first such painting of its kind. Behind Coach Macleod are pictures of his former players on their NBA teams; "When Monty gets his picture taken for the Knlcks, It'll be up there." Below: Coach John Macleod takes a call from star recruit Gary Bell; from the window behind him, Coach can look out on the stadium (unlike Holtz who must keep his blinds closed). 
Off the Court 
Away from the the hardwood and behind the desk with JohnMacLeod
Teothercomerofficein theJACCbelongs to Head Basketball Coach John MacLeod. The two coaches are at opposite ends of thebuild­
ing and have offices as different as the sports they coach. While Holtz's office is something of a pleas­antly cluttered den, if it were not for the basketball pictures, MacLeod's office could belong to a banker or a lawyer. "It's a comfortable comer," MacLeod says from behind a desk that looks like it came out of the White House. ''Ican keep myblinds openbecause there are those pine trees outside the windows, and I think Coach Holtz would probably get more visitors 
than I would anyway." 
All around the walls, Coach MacLeod has action shots of his favorite NBA players whom he has coached. But behind his desk are four large posed photos of his first four seniorplayers at Notre Dame: LaphonsoEllis, Keith Tower,Elmer Bennett,andDamon Sweet ''Those were my first players to graduate and they set such agreat example that I like to keep their pictures up to remember them," MacLeod said. ''They embodied Notre Dame -they were all good students and they were great players." 
MacLeod also has pictures from his second favorite sport ­golf. "This is a long par four at Colonial Course, one of my favorites. And this is Castle Duigan in Scotland -you know MacLeod is a Scottish name and that's the home of Clan MacLeod-it could also explain my love for golf." 
Coach MacLeod also has some very personal pictures among the 20 around his office walls. "That's Moose Krause. He was an All-American basketball play~r here, later the head coach. 

But what's important is that he was one of the finest men you could ever meet I put that up after he passed away," MacLeod explained. On the other wall there is a framed clipping from the Clucago Tribune with pictures of all the children killed in Chicago in one year. "You may not thing that something like this fits with all this basketball, but to me it fits. Basketball's importance only goes so far, but stopping kids from getting killed, that's something that's important to all ofus." 
Coach MacLeod's office is as finely appointed as his wardrobe and as full of basketball as his life. But the most special ~gin MacLeod's office is agood old-fashioned hickory shaft golf club. ''That's my favorite stick. Late at night when I'm in here thinking ofplays and pacing back and forth, I pick up that good old stick and it helps me think." 
Far Left: Father Ned 
Joyce and his 
favorite view of the 
campus. 
Below: Father Ned 
behind his desk, 
retired, but never 
done working. 
Left: A model of the 
SS-71, the world's 
fastest airplane, In 
which FatherTed 
Hesburgh broke 
mach three -"I 
guess. that makes me 
the fastest priest 
alive." Father 
Hesburgh was 
hoping to fly In the 
space shuttle. He 

.was In competition with Walter Cronkite and James Mlchener,"But after the Challenger exploded that was the end of amateur hour." Right: Father Ted behind the same desk he has had 
C: 

for 38 years: "It served me Just fine over In the Main j Building, so I brought It with me to my new office." E !! Far Right: The huge blue and gold rug on the floor 
m 

of Father Hesburgh's office. The rug was made In Donegal, Ireland, and Is embroidered with the seal of the university and the name of every president up to Hesburgh -"You look at the rug with all the Irish names on It and you wonder how a name like .


A Room·with a View 
Hesburgh got In there.'' 
Bottom Right: Every foot of wall space In Father 
After 35 years ofhard work, Father Ned 
Ted's office Is taken up with book shelves, and he 
has filled every Inch of shelves with Items from 
Joyce can relax and watch the scenery 
nearly every country on earth. "But one of my 
favorite things Isn't even on earth. It's a picture of
He may have retreated from the work of administering the UI1iversity's 
an asteroid out In space which a Russian astrono­
money, buildings and sports in 1987, but Father Ned Joyce, C.S.C., has 
mer named Hesburgh. The thing Is about 25 square never retired from business and sports committees, correspondences · miles and I hope one day I could walk on It.'' andconventions. HepassedhisMainBuildingofficeontohissuccessorandtook up a seat at the top of the library which he helped to build. "We had an architect design this space for us, but there have always been offices up here." Joyce's office is in an "L" shape with a sitting area just inside the door. A huge red oriental rug serves as a welcome mat and an impressionist painting of Saint Mark's Cathedral in Venice catches the visitor's eye. Around the corner in a niche all to itself is Father Joyce's desk, with large windowimmediately to its right In the shelves around his desk are his favorite books on business and sports, and. the .awards he received in his years as a leader in both fields. "Every­thing here is lovely, but being able to sit at my deskarid have this window to my left, which frames the dome and the spire on the church is really wonderful.. Being able to enjoy this sight after spending 38 years under the dome is a real joy," FatherJ oyce commented. "I love to just turn my chair and look out at the golden 
dome, the emblem ofthis school, and see the students and the campus and contemplate ho\'{ we'vegrown so over the years." · · · · 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ NOV EM BE R 1 7, 1 9 9 4 
\ 


AThousand 
•Memories 
F atherH esburgh and collectibles .from all over t!Je world 
ris that one bright window on the darkened side of the library, 
a ~ight that see!11s ~ be on all night On the othe~ si~e of the 
wmdow, working mto the early hours of the mornmg 1s Father Ted Hesburgh, C.S.c., president eqieritus, and campus grandfa­ther. His office is a wide, open room, but Father Ted has packed every inch of it with his favorite things. "Everywhere you look there are memories .. I've got stuff from all over creation here but each piece brings back a thousand memories." · . . . 
· Father Hesburgh's office 'is just prutof a much larger office complex which includes Father Ned Joyce's office, a large confer­ence room, two secretaries', offices, a kitchenette, and a chapel. "Father Joyce had this·whole office designed for us before we retired~ typical of Joyce he gave me the bigger office --'and all I asked for was agood view ofcampus and bookshelves from floor to ceilfog." Both of his wished were fulfilled: every inch of wall space is taken up by fine wooden bookshelves, and right next to Father Ted's desk is art unparalleled view of the campus from Moreau Seminary to the peace center. But it is the stuffin Father's office ...:.C.. historic stuff -which makes the place interesting. 
Father Hesburgh can walk froin one comer to the other and tell a story for each piece he picks up. "First of all these are all of my books whichhvas never able to k~p with me before. I've picked up books fromjustabouteverycountry I've been to-'--'..I'vevisited about 150 countries)'ve only missed a few little ones in central Africa~and I've got a lot ofbooksabout Antarctica which is one of my favorite places, I have a special interest in it. And then I've got the books I've worked on over the years and lots of other books which authors have given me or which I picked up just to read." 
. And then there are the knickknacks. "This is a little replica of those immense statues on Easter Island. I picked it up on the island from a native who was selling them to support his fantlly. This is of course a statue of Buddha which a friend sent me saying ifI sit next to it there will be two buddhas. This is a bell with Pope Paul VI gave to the cardinals after Vatican II~he had a couple leftover sohegaveonetome.Hegavemehisringtoo,butthat'sinthesafe." Father Ted never stops as he works his way from shelf to shelf remembering a story with each item he touches. 
There are no commonplace objects in Father Hesburgh's office, but there are some really unique pieces. Grabbing a small piece of ·. pottery which looked like two little jugs molded together, h~ · explained, ''This is a Peruvian desert water bottle. Well, ifyou're in thePeruvian desert and you loseyou're water you're a dead man. 
·So you fill it with water and sleep with it next to your head. If someone comes to steal your water at night the water sloshes in the jug and this happens ..."Father Ted puts the spout of the jug up to his mouth and blows. "See the sloshing water disturbs the air pressure and thejug whistles. Cute, isn't it-probably cost about 2,000 bucks by now." 
''ThisiswhereISpend16hoursaday. IhavetworoomsinCorby, but. those are like Motel 6. This is such a comfortable and 
· convenient place to worlc so I usually stay until one or two in the morning," Father Ted says fro111 behind his desk which is covered with official paperwork which he has to complete as chairman of Harvard's board of trustees. "And this is a letter from Ann Landers -she's always writing for advice on something." · O 
A roundup ofthe week in sports November 8 to November 15 edited by Jake Schaller · 
MEN'S SOCCER NotreDameproved skeptics wrong this past Saturday with a double overtime 1-0 victory over Central Connecticut The win vaulted the Irish into the NCAA tournament for the second con­secutive year. After a season that did not live up to expectations, Notre Dame has played inspired soccer in the post-season. 
Reminiscent of the MCC championship game, Notre Dame was forced to sudden death overtime. And once again sopho­more midfielder Konstantin Koloskov pro­vided the heroics, as he volleyed a shot into the Blue Devil's net only minutes into the second overtime. It was Koloskov's sud­den death goal against Wisconsin-Milwau­kee that sealed Notre Dame's MCC crown. 
Another Irish hero was goalkeeper Bert Bader. The senior shut out the Blue Devils, and saved a cmcial shot in the second half to help keep the Irish alive. For his efforts, BaderwasnamedtoSoccerAmerica'sTeam of the Week. 
The season will only get tougher for the Irish, however, as they face number-one ranked Indiana in the firstround on Novem­ber 20. 
HOCKEY The Notre Dame hockey team went .500 this weekend, as tliey split a series with Ferris State. On Friday night, the Irish tallied their first conference win of the season with a 2-1 victory over the Bull­dogs. 
After a scoreless first period, the Irish took control of the game. Sophomore left wing Terry Lorenz fed junior center Jamie Ling, who sent a wrist shot into the net to break the scoreless tie. After FSU tied the game at . one apiece, defenseman Garry Gruber scored his secondgoal ofthe season to give the Irish the victory. 
After another scoreless first period on Saturday night, FSU took a 2-1 lead in the secondperiod,andskatedto4-1 win. Goalie Wade Salzman played solid all weekend, saving 18 of 19 shots on Friday and 26 on Saturday. 

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
VOLLEYBALL The9th-rankedNotre Dame volleyball team finished out their conference regular season this past week­end with three conference victories. The wins gave the Irish a perfect 10-0 record in the MCC, their fourth straight MCC title, and a29-2 overall record. The team was led by freshman outside hitter Angie Harris who had three big games. 
The Irish open the MCC tournament as the top seed this Saturday when they face Wisconsin-Green Bay at Northern Illinois. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER The prom­ised land of women's soccer is in Portland this year, and the Fighting Irish will be there. With two come-from-behind victo­ries, Notre Dame's women's soccer team won the Central Region Championship and a spot in the Final Four. 
On Saturday, the Irish erased memories of last season's first round exit with a 3-1 win over George Mason. 
On Sunday, against No. 5 William & Mary,thelrish facedal-Odeficitatthehalf. However, Rosella Guerrero headed in a. Holly Manthei cross to tie the game, and MichelleMcCarthyconvertedafreekickto give the Irish a 2-1 victory and a trip to the Final Four. Irish freshman defender, Kate Sombrero, led the way in shutting down NatalieNeaton,thecountry'sleadingscorer. 
Notre Dame will facePortlandon Friday in the semi-final game. The Irish defeated the Pilots 2-1 earlier this year. With a victory, the Irish will advance to the finals where they will face the winner of the Connecticut and North Carolina game. 

Predictions 

Kennedy's Kall: Becton romps all over the Air Force defense with his first 100-yard game ofthe season. Mayes breaks the Notre Dame single season touchdown mark for a receiver with his tenth of the year. Taylor and the Notre Dame defense stone the Air Force arsenal to 250 yards all day. Notre Dame 34, Air Force 17. Schaller's Schot: Coming off seven straight victories, Air Force pushes Notre Dame to the limit The Falcons run up big numbers, but cannot stop Notre Dame's rushing attack. Becton and Zellars lead the way with over 200 combined yards. An Irish special teams touchdown keys the comeback win. Notre Dame 31, Air Force 26. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•NOVEMBER 17, 1994 
ii§iilsii+ii§ISii§i• 
II REVIEW 



The Awful Truth 
Oliver Stone's unsettling version ofAmerica 
by Chris Myers 
W:t has become of the average American moviegoer? This was the question that lingered 
after Oliver Stone's lecture last Wednes­day. The audience listened as the Oscar­winning filmmaker spoke on how the me­dia can contort the truth, twist the facts and, in effect, write its own story. Yet whenever someone challenges the accepted "truth," they are brushed aside and seen as a radical whose distorted viewpoint is unacceptable. 
Every so often, a film comes along that does ask us to wonder what the real story is -a film that asks us to think. But we as average American moviegoers don't want to think! We want to "be entertained," we want to "have a good time." We automati­cally hold the belief that the words "think­ing" and "entertainment" are polarized op­posites. And it is that mentality that has caused some ofthe bestand most important movies of our time to remain virtually un­seen. 
Stone said that the media controls the events of our time. Whatever we see on the evening news must be hard core fact But why? Isn't there any other side to a story? Of course there is. But why bother with it? It's unpopular. It's too radical, politically incorrect It won't boost ratings, it won't attract new sponsors. It's better left unsaid. And so we have the Dan Rather and the Tom Brokaw "clones" on the television everynight,reportingfrom the same places, a few miles apart from each other, reading the same words in a different order. 
The institution of the media has spoiled us, and endangered us, too. Because of these dangerous trends we, the American public, have come to expect certain things from the institutions of television and film. Yes, at the end of the hour Jessica Fletcher will solve the mystery. We'll end tonight's ne\Yscaston a "positive note." And by 9:30 Tim and Jill will kiss and make up. Final punchline, roll credits. 

We want to see giant dinosaurs, Disney cartoons and Harrison Ford movies (be­~ause that's what the CIA is really like). The good guys always win, the bad guys alwayslose,andTomHanksandMegRyan will meet on the Empire State Building soon, because the next movie starts in 15 minutes. 
Is this real life? No. But sponsors pay $200,000 a minute toadvertiseduringpopu­lar television shows. Millions of people f But when will they heal? 

~ For his films, Oliver Stone has received
i" twoAcademy Awardsandnumerousnomi­
" nations. However, none of his films have ever grossed more than $50 million, mak­ing him a Hollywood studio risk. People just don't want to see movies from some radical conspiracy monger. He half­heartedlyjoked, "MycriticscallmeOliver Stoned." Yet Stone is one offew filmmakers who dare to challengeus to question our history, . morals, beliefs and ethics. One of the few filmmakers who challenge us to think. But we just don't want to. We'll learn our history in school, reading from the same books thatgotinformationfrom theclones. 
The same stories recycled over and over again. We'll think in school -not at the theater. 
Stone's lament was summed up per­fectly by Robert Redford in an interview with the Los Angeles Times. · His recent film Quiz Show is one of the most ac­claimed oftheyear. Themovie,ironically, is about the corruption in the television industry and how this story crushed an unsuspecting nation, shattering its perfect image as a respectable and reliable institu­tion. · The movie, despite all of its critical praise, bas received dismal box office re­sults. Intheinterview,Redfordstated, "It's risky to ask~e audience to think." 
What a sad and scary fact . 

"My critics call me Oliver Stoned," said Stone, speaking last week at Notre Dame. 
were willing to shell out seven bucks a pop to seelurassic Park a fifth time. We expect happy endings. We take comfort in know­ing what's going to happen next 
But what if the situation changes and we don't know what to expect? Oliver Stone has often posed this question to us. In JFK he asked us to question the "truth" about the Kennedy assassination. "Come on, who is• he kidding?" "How dare he!" "Didn't he hear about the Warren Commission?" It was the same story. The same networks. Only different clones telling us this is the truth. Here'swhathappened. Don'tworry about this anymore. Go on with your lives, everything is all right now. 
Likewise, in his Vietnam trilogy, Stone examined.the war from three distinctly different viewpoints. He was attacked fromallsides. 'Therewasneveranyofthat in the war!" "I don't remember hearing about that!" "That's not what it was like at all!" Many tried to forget about Vietnam; it was an ugly experience for many Ameri­cans. But Oliver Stone remembered, and he kept his memory alive. He showed an American public all sides of the Vietnam conflict Some sides we didn't want to see. 'The wounds are too fresh," Stone said. 


j 
Chicago's Trenchmouth brings it's fierce sound

No Compromise 
to campus 

l
make for alive show that can be breathtak­by Josef Evans ing in its intensity. Comparisons with other"altemative"bandshaverangedfrom 's one thing to say a band's latest album Fugazi to The Jesus Lizard, but all stress 
is great It's quite another to say "it the fact that this is music with a groove. proves that one day [the band] will rule Having such a varied styie has made it 
the world," as the Minneapolis City Pages difficult for the band members to become did when reviewing Trenchmouth's last al­a familiar name. But that's just fine with bum, Inside the Future. Trenchmouth, whose ability to avoid cat­Although world domination may not ex­egorization has allowed them to sport and 
actly be in the works for this highly praised refine a truly original sound that outfitfrom Chicago.a trip to Notre Daine on nearly defies comparison. And December 2 is. And if even half of the having this freedom may ironi­hyperbole dished out by their promotional cally be what brings them to the agency is accurate, the show ought to be forefront of college music, as an unmissable. ever-increasing base of loyal 
Caught in the current industry rush on fans brings their fresh sound Chicago as the "next Seattle," Trenchmouth into recognition . .is a band on the verge of a popularity explo­Oneespeciallyloyalfan wrote sion. The music isa conglomeration ofhigh­ofthe band in GearheadMaga­energy styles, incorporating elements of zine: "I've beenknown to write­punk,jazz, hardcore, rap and even reggae to off lifetime friendships with 

Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -Lafortune Student Center-631-~128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
people who don't like Trenchmouth." 
Evenifyou thoughtFugaziand TheJ esus 

Lizard were strange Eastern religious cults 
and alternative music doesn't get you that 
excited; it still might beworth checking this 
show out After all, the band could rule the 
world someday. . 
Trenchmouth will close out the Loft series 
this semester, with Bumhleflea opening the ·show. Tickets are a $1. 

-~~­

<(\\,e, C"'ountry 
:J-[arvester

"A great little gift shop on campus " · 
Discover delightful surprises in our quaint country store here on campus. Don't miss our Christmas open house on Dec. 5 -Dec. 10. 
Great SYR & Secret Santa Gifts! Wacky toys, Pez and other candy, goofy pens and pencils, balloons and stuffed animals 
Contemporary greeting cards including: 
• 
Bright & funky 3rd Street Line of cards 

• 
100% recycled humorous college all occasion c.rrds 

• 
Deep Thoughts, Seinfeld & Far Side cards 


Also, 

• 
Frames for those snapshots of all your ND memories 

• 
Wide assortment of stationery, scented candles & potpourri, and flavored coffees, teas and hot chocolates 

• 
Begin your collection of Irish Village today 

• 
Warm up in "Irish" cardigan sweatshirts. 

• 
Bundle up in JOO% cotton ND blue & gold blankets. 


Mon. -Fri. 10 -5, Sat. 11-2 
(extended holiday hours) 

U.P.S. The Country Harvester 
VISA& 

SERVICE Lafortune Student Center MASTERCARD DAILY Lower Level ACCEPTED 
(219) 631-6714 






On the· Silver Screen 
Montgomery Theater: On the first floor of LaFortune. "Batman," Thurs.,7:30 & 10:30 p.m., $1. · Cushing Auditorium: "The Client," Fri.-Sat., 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., $2. 
Cinema at the Snlte: "The Scent of Green Papaya," Fri,-:Sat., 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "Stagecoach," Mon., 7:00 p.m. "The Last Diva," Tues., 7:00 p.m. · 
University Park West: 2n-7336. ''The War," PG-13, 1:15, 4:00, 6:45, 9:30. "Stargate," PG-13, 1:40, 4:20, 7:00, 9:50. "Love Affair," PG-13, 2:15, 4:45, 6;45, 9:15. 
University Park East: 277-7336.· · . · . "Pulp Fiction," R, 1:30, 4:45, 8:00. • "The Specialist," R, 4:15, 6:45, 9:15. 
"Frankenstein," R, 1:45, 4:30,.7:15, 10:00. · "Double Dragon," PG-13, 1:40. "Interview with the Vampire," R, 1:15, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45. ''The Santa Clause," PG, 1:oo, 3:1 o, 5:20, 7:25, 9:30. 
Town & Country: 259~9090. . ''The Little Giants," PG; 5:15, 7:30. "Forrest Gump," PG-13, 3:45, 6:45, 9:50. ''The New Nightmare," R, 10:00; 1'The Road ·to Wellville;" R, 4:00, 7:00, 9:40. 
' . 
Saint Mary:5. · · · ·C.olJe·~ . : 

t=llm: ''.Under Siege," Fri., 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., · Carroll Auditorium, SMC. · Concer:t: Sesquicentennial Event, "The l_ndiaj'lapolis Sympho'ny Orchestra," Sun.,· 
2:30 p.m., O;Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 


Coming 
Distractions 
From November 17 -24 
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Football: Notre Dame vs. Air Force, Sat., 1:35_ p.m., Notre Dame Stadium. 
Basketball: AU games played in the south dome of the JACC. Notre Dame men vs. Slovakia, Thurs., 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame men vs. Verich Reps, Tues., 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame women vs. Australia, Thurs., 7:00 p.m. 
Hockey: All games played in the north dome of the JACC. 
Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, Fri., 7:00 p.m. Volleyball: MCC To_urnament . Soccer: Women's NCAA final Four, Fri.-Sat., in 
Portland, OR. Swimming: Notre Dame vs. Air For~e. Sat., 7:00 p.m., Rolf's Aquatic Center. . . 
· Cultural Connection 
Historical Walking Tour of Campus: Fri., 3:00 p.m., 
Main Gate. . Acoustic Cafe:· Every Thurs., 9:00 p.m., Huddle. Theatre: .The Bacchae, Thurs.-Sat., 8:00 p.m., Sun., 
2:30 p.m., Washington Hall. Lectures and Seminars: . 

•"Parliamentarized Presidentialism and Democratic Consolidation in Bolivia," Rene Maygora, La Paz, Bolivia, Thurs., 4:15 p.m., Rm. C-103Hesburgh Center. · . . 
. • Paul M. and Barbara .Henkels Visiting Scholar Series, · Thurs., 8:00 p.m., Auditorium, COE. . . 
•"lsotopically-Engineered Semiconductors," Eugene E. · Haller, UC Berkeley, Fri., 1:30 p.m., Rm. 258 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
Art Exhibit: "David to Degas: 19th Century European Master Drawings," Snite: · • · · · . · · 



News ofthe Biza,rre from Our 
Nanon's Universi.ies 
.

All hope is not lost, Irish fans. We may have lost four games (wow, it's almost painful to say) but at least some people still think we belong in a bowl game. Anthony Demangone, a senior at Penn State, recently created his own bowl scenario in the Weekly Collegian, the Penn State newspaper. He graciously included Notre Dame among his picks, but I don't think we should be 
flattered. Maybe everyone should read what he wrote before deciding if we'd be better off bowl-less: 
The Menendez I Ohl. Simpson Bowl 
''These two courtcases have way too much press.... Americans were sick of the Menendez brothers. We're getting sick of the OJ. case. Why not turn it into abowl? Let's see. We need to find two teams that get way too much press. ThetwoteamswillbeNotreDameandNotreDame. That'sright,thisgamewillbeanintrasquadscrimmagebetween the boys from South Bend. ... Game time will be7:30 a.m., and there won'tbe any TV coverage. Thepope has already 
called and complained, but hey, I'm a man of my principles." 
Back to the Basics 

Or: The Naked Guy at Penn According to the August edition of U. Magazine, a monthly college publication, aUniversity ofPenn­sylvania law student has set out to gain exposure (excuse the word choice) for his studentorganization -,-the UPenn NaturistStudent Association, which is just aeuphemismforanudistcolony. GonsNachman 
NotreDamestudentsarefamiliarwiththekhakipantsphenomenon,especiallyclaims that his organization promotes nudity as a 
the male variety-paired with a white dress shirt, navy blue blazer, red tie and
constitutional right in private and public, and it standard rose. Well, two students at the University of Illinois, John J. Kim andsponsors nude functions like body-painting and vis­Julie Noce, feel that khakis are under-rated as a wardrobe option and wrote aits to nude beaches. Apparently, Nachman first went 
column in the Daily Illini about the versatility of khaki pants. Listen up,
nude when he stripped as part of a speech, and then, everyone:completely naked, walked into his constitutional law "We like khaki pants. Don't you? We think these comfortable slacks goclass. He's been naked ever since. His opponents unappreciated in the fashion world. Let's take a moment to look at thesehave brought up the argument that it is indecent classics.... Since Dockers' big campaign on leisure wear hit the fashionexposure, but Nachman insists that there is nothing scene, khaki pants have moved from formal to casual wear in the past fewsexual involved. Th~ organization merely champi­years.... The best thing about khaki pants is the unisex appeal they offer toons being comfortable with your body. "No one's both men and women. As we write this, John is presently sporting a whitegoing to go into wild orgies,"saidNachman. Doesn't cotton t-shirt with his khakis, and he looks as fashionable as Julie, who's
he have a way with words? 

wearing a Champion sweatshirt with hers.... So drag yourhllakis out of the closet and wear them to class, wear them to work, wear them out on Friday night. Because these pants aren't just for funerals [or SYRs] anymore." 
Rr all you cyber-junkies, the University of Miami has discovered safe sex through Intern~~ The Miami Hw-ricane, the UM newspaper, found out the address ofCondom Country, an on-line store wherepeople can purchasecondoms and novelty sex aids. For anyone who might be interested (for curiosity ONLY of course) here's the address: condom.country@ag.com or http:// 
WWWfig.com:104/Condom/Country/homepage (It connects, we've tried it.) . 
commentary by Mary Kate Morton 



Grist for the Mill Rick Gre 
I,_, 
r: 
! 
·,I 

J-IWll"-I,.. Seic 1-\ere all 
Now~ rgu.. "'.\€ ~ir :cvn. ~ 
f8Ur rreviOU~. work 

-· Yov({ (p~tf!I a f'L51VV'Ojor; ~ 
e..::ferie~Le ,~, vi-,,,·
1-\i, J:;,,, i:>11.ve 

WD~I<. 6XP6Rl&rJt~ :r:~e doiief. ~ 
''Ct..A$$1ftE.cf'?!
P;c~fti, r ·11 be 
; ," . ·,1 . fi1111jS #.a I 
it1.\-erv1a,..,i"j yo~ 

_0,R STf\Kf ~~--+rc:H11<'ly, you ..
T!,4t-°5 Cor,,c,+_.:. \ 
+o<lo.y... 
PiAYIN'/f' ·. .

) f.•J 'I""' clJ 
\ 
'-· :.= 
· 
,ie..-,,.-<.;==>. \\ 



by Mary Kate Morton 

Mail. I n.ever th.ought tha.t I would live for the 11:00 a.m. mail delivery, yet I find myself eagerly at the mailbox every morning when I can see ifmom sent rile an extra $20 or if any of my letters have that "par avion" stamp from my friends abroad. The mail can pretty much determine my mood for the day. (Whether or not this says something about my social life is another story ...) So you can imagine my horror when I looked into that little hole in the wall and found a university form that set my stomach turning: my DART time, without any forewarning! Yes, everyone, it's about that time of year. Course registration. It reminds me ofa song: "To everything there is a season ... a time . to laugh, a time to CRY... a time to stress, a time to throw the phone out the window.;." WeU, kids, DART.season has descended upon us oncemore so get out your course books and prepareto battle with that annoying computerized voice that can make or break your semesters. Let me take this opportunity to share with everyone my feelings toward the monster that is DART and my own personal, but not-so-successful, strategies to conquer course registration. First of all, ·the administration. would like us to believe (yeah right) that DART times are assigned randomly and that, in four years, everything balances out Yup, mmm-hmmm, that must be why I have gotten the last hour of the last day every time since freshman year. I think it's a conspiracy. When they know you're going abroad next semester, they give you the first session on the first day just to tick you off. Allright,soyoueventuallygetoverthefactthatyourDARTtime sucks, to put it bluntly, and that you will most likely wind up in classes like Philosophical Questions that Even Ancient Greek GeniusesLike Socrates andPlato Couldn' tFigure Out orAbstract Post-Modern Cubism in Belize and How It Relates to the Average Human Being and that, as a result, your GPA is going to plummet into the depths of"D"-dom. You ignore the fact that no one will want to hire you upon graduation because your grades dropped, 
and that you will forever live with your parents because you can't support yourself. AND, most importantly, you forget that, basi­cally, this can all be traced back to your evil DART experiences hereatNotreDame. Wow, that'salotofbittemesstogetover. But of course, you do get over it because you are aloving, contributing member of the Notre Dame community who believes that every­thing the university does is in the best interests of its students. Wasn't itNietsczhe who said, ''That which does not kill us makes us stronger?" We'll see about that one .... 
Anyway, so you're prepared to DART, right? You've filled out meticulously that oh-so-helpful waste of paper (DART sheet) which really does a lot when DART randomly decides to cutyou offin the middle ofarequest forno reason whatsoever. I just make sure that I have at least 30 classes that I could take and that maybe DART will cooperate on at least four of them! So now you need to work on the logistics of the 15 minutes that will determine next semester-where to DART, with whom, etc. 
If you're anything like me, you need people around for moral support while you DART. One or two will do, but personally, I have my own legion of about four-one to calmly go over what I want to take so that I don't forget in the heat of the moment, one to make sure no one interrupts me in my time of distress, thereby completely throwing off my concentration, and then the crucial two: one to finish DART-ing for me when I've completely lost my mind and. have resorted to screaming ·at an inanimate object, namely the phone, and the last one to help restore me to a state of 
.sanity after DART tells me I'm only a part-time student because I could only get two classes. You need to search for victims early, beforetheygetwindofwhatyou'redoing,butitisatruefriendwho will deal with DART more times than he or she absolutely has to! Once you have assembled your army of DART-ers, you need to choose where you're going to DART. I recommend your room where you can feel comfortable and stress-free. The phones in the Registrar are nightmares that breed tension. DON'T use them under any circumstances! Besides, at home, you can cry, swear or vent your frustrations inother violent ways, ifby some strange twist of fate, your 15 minutes with DART don't go quite as well as you had anticipated. Somehow I don't think the Registrar would be as understanding and sympathetic as roommates when you fling the DART book across the room, taking out lamps, shelves and the occasional bystander. 
Sothereyougo. YouhaveyourDARTsheet, DARTbook,and all your friends around you in yourroom. All you need to do is pick up the phone and dial. Stop staring at it like it's a dreaded disease waiting to ruin your day; I.know one or two people who have actually had positive DART experiences! The only thing you really need to know is one little phrase : 
"Maaauuup-maaauuup .... l'm..... ~ORRY [sure]. COURSE ...... number....2 ..... 0 ..... 1 ..... 9 ...... IS ........ full. PLEASE ....... make ...... ANOTIIER ..... request' " . 
This is a humorous column. The views ~pressed do not necessarily represent those dfScholastic Magazine. 

• 



Sex Kills, Off Campus Wins 


Off campus player Linda Keefe and her teammates celebrate their victory over Siegfried Hall In the semifinals ofthe women's lnterhall football playoffs last weekend. Off Campus will face Lyons Hall In the stadium at 12:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
Photo by Brent Tadsen 

-

Alllllll -III l'lrlll 1111111::: 
.,,.l'lrlll~ 
111111::"
......, 
.......,. J ..
• ...,.••.,..._
----·· 
IS HIRING! 

TWO & THREE~YEAR SCHO1ARSHIPS AVAl1ABLE 
REQUIREMENTS: 

. Minimum 2_65 GPA (Technical majors -Engineering, Math, Physics, Architecture, Computer Science) . Minimum 3_00 GPA (Non-technical majors -Government, Economics, Accounting, Etc) 
. Minimum 3_65 freshman GPA (Pre-Med) . Minimum 3_50 sophomore GPA (Pre-Med) . Pass the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (Similar to SAT test) . Successfully complete the Air Force ROTC Physical Fitness Test . .,J Run l _5 miles (<12 min_, 01 sec for men and <14 min_, 25 sec for women) . Be medicallly qualified . Success rate for qualified ND/St_ Mary's applicants is over 90% 
BENEFITS: 

. Up to full tuition, all books, standard fees . Sl 50 per month during the academic year . No job search hassles -directly apply your ND education upon graduation ,:1> Active duty entry salary of $25, 000 with guaranteed raises to $43, 000 
at year four . . 30 days of vacation with pay each year 
+ 
Outstanding opportunities for advanced degrees in Engineering, Law, Medicine upon graduation from ND 

+ 
Pilot and navigator positions are expanding rapidly -excellent opportunities to 


fly, regardless of scholarship major . Gain valuable experience in the Air Force and increase your marketability 

TO MAKE IT HAPPEN, CALL CAPTAIN RICH HARTER 631\~4674 




BRUNO'S 
l1ll 



Open for carryout and delivery only  Accepting reservations on wee!<ends.  
from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays,  Available for private parties  
4 p.m. -midnite weekends.  and banquets.  
**2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS  **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95  
FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY**  EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)**  
115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus)  261 O Prairie Ave.  
273-3890  288-3320  

"All Homem,ade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 









