I
Che Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone Beil 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St. and Washington Ave.	South Bena, Ina.
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend Home Phone 6183
Home Phone, 5789	Res Bell 1162
Bell Phone. 689
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST
611-612 J. M. S. Bldg. Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.
South Bend, Ind.
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965
Omen:	PHONES Rbsidbncx: .	.
Bell 886. Home. 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. 511, Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
■ ■ ■ ■ —■ — - -- .J-- -	—
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building . South Bend, Ind.
“WALK-OVERS”
THE STUDENT'S SHOE WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St.
Bell Phone 581
Home Phone 2451
Will call al Uttiaeniiy h ifNialant
. Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
- Office and Residence, ass S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.
L. P. HARDY CO.
- 417-423 S. St. Joseph St.
South Bend, Indiana
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
T^s f at Reasonable Prices. Special attention Jjf CVClftS given to students. Branch Repair Shop. ***V/“W’ St. Edward HaH. Notre Dame.
Anderson Brothers & Bultinck
109 West Colfax Avenue ' South Bend. Indiana
Baker’s Shoes
-FOE MEN WHO CARET
EXCLUSIVE IN STYLE PERFECT IN m
114 W. Washington, Ave. South Bend, Indiana
THE UGHt OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID .	362 pp.—Price $1.25
THE AVE MARIA .	NOTRE DAME. IND.

-■2

QVASIO^-MORITVRVS
Vol. LUI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October ii, 1919;
No. 3.
A Soldier’s Spirit Speaks.
(For Joyce Kilmer.)
BY LEO R. WARD, ’20.
J^OWN to a poppied field of France there came Strange bugle notes that softly called my name;
And clearer, clearer still '	,
'	They fell, yet softly, ’ till
My spirit-eyes awakening fresh and wide, 4
Saw Michael, tall and kind, the flaming forts of . heaven there beside,	.
And standing where white banners in angelic breezes
ever fly, -	’	’
His robe as radiant as the heaven’s morning sky.
And lo! again from his sweet bugle came
Those kind, clear notes that called my name,-
That called me to forever be A soldier newly strong in God’s white company.
Yet Bugler, tall	and	radiantly	kind, but	hear	my
prayer,—	1
Call my dear - comrades	still	on	earth, I1 sadly	left
them there,	।
-	I
That they may march beside me here in timeless courts In the sweet safety of heaven’s walls and the white-holy forts.
The Celtic Renaissance.*
BY GEORGE DEWEY HALLER, JOURNALISM, ’19.
IRELAND’S centuried struggle for freedom will remain for all time an imperishable monument to 'man’s constancy and to woman’s fidelity. That long resistance to tyranny is .	the noblest page in the history of the human race.
. _ To hint that such courage, such deathless sacrifice, might some day lay down the sword in despair would seem almost sacrilege.z Yet a quarter of a century ago the bright sword of Erin’s , dauntless faith was sheathed almost to the hilt. That flaming blade which had made sacred ten thousandfields through eight centuries of conflict, which had flashed and gleamed upon
~ .	* Prize essay for 1919 in the annual contest for the ■
Meehan Gold Medal, awarded for best literary essay by a Senior. '	. ’ -
the side of freedom wherever that cause was threatened, was now settling slowly into the ignoble sheath of apathy, tired with its relentless doing. Apathy numbed the mind of the nation and black despair gripped every heart. What the press of sworded foemen, or the gaunt hand of permitted famine, or the rods of the alien law, could not beat down—the spirit of the Irish people—was trickling away unseen, faster than the sands of the hour-glass. Prophets had arisen to declare that the destiny of the race was its absorption into the more dominant . Anglo-Saxon and its mission the leavening of the conqueror by the vanquished. Not only . had the old valiant spirit ebbed away, but
- adverse material conditions had combined to bring into view the vanishing point of the race.
■ Millions and millions, of men and women, the flower of the Irish race, wereforced to emigrate.
: The twilight was gathering. It seemed but a race to show which would disappear first/ the
! Irish people or the Irish spirit. - A quarter of a century ago Ireland was one . vast poorhouse, . where Cathleen ni Houlihan sat crouching by the cold hearth, crooning of the glories of a day that was done, keening the loss of brave sons and daughters forever departed.
A few Irishmen realized that if this apathy of* spirit were to envelop the whole nation, if the material decay were to continue, Ireland’s ' : bright dream of freedom would not'only , fade, . ■ , but Ireland herself would likewise perish. But when the hour was darkest,'when Ireland’s outlook was the gloomiest of all her history, ' the Celtic Dawn, the Irish Renaissance, began.
It might seem the movement came too late; - , that it would but mark the passing of the race by a blaze of glory.. Yet now as we glance in5 retrospect over the achievements of the past twenty-five years, it .is through no rosy flush of -illusion that we are led to conclude that the ? national regeneration has a vitality which win overcome all obstacles and • result in ultimate ': triumph.	;
%

S3
©g


Nocre SameSchokrecic
Political independence does not make the genius, a genius richer in poetry, imagination, and nation; the first of all liberties is that of the idealism: the preservation and development of soul. The Irish soul had to be freed from the it in complete, conscious, fruitful expression is,
intellectual yoke of England; a psychological emancipation was to be sought before political freedom could be realized. As Burke said, “A country must be independent in fact before it can be independent in name.” England had striven for eight centuries to overcome the Celt. Nothing had availed. War, ruthless, merciless war, such as no other nation ever waged upon a neighbor; seizure of all the land, the despoliation of the native owners; the banishment of the entire race, the infamous “Clearances”, the terrible “To Hell or Connaught” of Cromwell; the evictions of the peasantry of which Sir Robert Peel said—“the records of no other country, civilized or barbarous, ever presented such scenes of horror”; the Emigration which took away half the race, and of which John Stuart Mill said—“Whenever the inhabitants
of a country quit the country en masse because the government will not make it a place fit for them to live in, that government is judged and condemned”; all the tales of horrors'the like of which the world had never before known, down to the Penal days—all this availed nothing. But the terrible scourging of the Penal Laws, the forcing of English education upon the Irish, this caused the pendulum to start,its swing toward England. This alien education killed the Irish language, history, and traditions. The Irish tongue became the badge of inferiority, and with its passing departed that delicate Irish courtesy which made their hard life sweeter, with it passed Irish music, customs, art, and literature, all that marvelous culture which .came down from ages before Christ walked in Galilee. It is a profound truth that a people can develop and make progress only by develop^ ing its natural gifts and native qualities. It is not possible for one race to acquire the soul of another by some sort of national metempsychosis. If Irish traditions, art, music, and culture were to disappear, it would mean the end of the race. Such a culmination would be an irreparable loss to the whole human race. “ Of all the small nationalities who, confronting the gross utilitarianism and corrupt materialism of the modem world, seem created to represent the claims of beauty, truth and civilization, there is not one more worthy of being preserved than. Celtic Ireland, very old and always young.
them do we find a, more delicate or more
mote than any other, essential to the future of humanity?’ So speaks L- Paul DuBois in “Contemporary Ireland” (1911). And to his testimony could be added the belief of Chesterton as quoted by Katherine Hughes in “Ireland.” —“‘So now,’ I said joyously, ‘I believe the-old civilization of Ireland is coming back.’ ” “ ‘It is coming back,’ Chesterton replied with deliberation, ‘coming back—for the salvation of Western Europe.’”
Such is the high place and importance which, has been ascribed to the Celtic Renaissance. Though the literary aspects are the only ones treated in this paper, a thorough understanding of the mainsprings and motives which have so powerfully influenced modem Irish literature cannot be achieved without a brief account of the other movements which go together in
working for the rebirth of Ireland. All these movements together have preserved the national spirit of Ireland, reorganized her economic life, produced a literature great in the quality of its spiritual content, and realized a social synthesis which has produced a new nation. These movements, or rather this movement, grouping them all under the general head of rebirth, was a popular, spontaneous growth, uniting rather than dividing classes, a movement not animated by hate for England, but by a profound and legitimate sentiment for social preservation, provoking an enthusiasm, a passion, a faith, such as. only the greatest national and religious revolutions have been able to create in the history of the world.
Under- the . heads of political, economic, and social reform, these three organizations have carried forward the general movement. One of these, the Gaelic League, will be considered here merely. in. relation to its social effects, and later, under the literary aspects of the Renaissance, in connection with the language question. The.other organizations are Sinn Fein 7and the Irish Agricultural Organization Society. The latterhas, together with all the other movements, a common aim, which is the regeneration of Irish life from within. It is largely due to the efforts of Sir Horace Plunkett, a former rancher
in the United States, a member of the Dunsany family, of independent means, a Protestant and a In none of modified Home Ruler? He had observed in this
spiritual country Hie effects of inaustrial combination in
35
*5fie Noure dome Scholasric

the elimination of useless waste, and increased power given the individuals of the combination. Returning to Ireland in 1889, he found a nation of small farmers, with unsatisfactory conditions of land tenure, using primitive . methods of agriculture, with emigration tending to depopulate the country, with the farmers burdened by debt, and meagre returns. He found the government lax, the farmers tyrannized by the gombeen men. He was not a trained economist or a . specialist in agriculture, but a man of vision and infinite persuasion. With the aid of Father Thomas Finlay, S. J., and R. A. Anderson, supervisor of Lord Castletown’s tenants, he spread the gospel of co-operation. In 1894, the Society was formed. According to Plunkett, agriculture was a science, an industry, and a life. Combina-, tion was the secret of better farming, better business, and better living. It would enable the
purchase of expensive machinery for community in patience before going to America. Then the
use, buy supplies for the community at wholesale prices, and sell the goods of the community at retail prices. Credit societies, Raiffeisen banks, agricultural societies, poultry societies, home industrial societies, all were organized. Experts were used to improve methods, itinerant teachers spread the new information; farming was revolutionized. Useful laws were agitated and soon secured, a new departure in government departments secured to further the work of the Society when the time was ripe to add government
assistance to self-help, and the result was the compact and boldest expression in terms of 4 building up of a new economic system which will politics of all the forces and influences that are make Ireland the teacher of the world in this helping on the regeneration of Ireland. It is the ' new rural civilization.	political spearhead of -Ireland, for which the
The Gaelic League as a factor in-the social Gaelic League, the industrial revival,, the co- .
amelioration of Irish life can be separated from its influence in the literary movemen*, in which connection it will be treated later. It was founded in 1893 by Dr. Douglas Hyde, Father Eugene O’Grdwney, David Comyn, O’Neal . Russell, and John MacNeill. It organized festivals where prizes were given for singing, dancing, and other features and customs of ancient Irish civilization. It aimed to reconstruct the national social system—to teach Ireland how to be a
nation. Its purpose was a psychological regener-
ation based on the national factor. This ' the Irish people. Sidney Brooks continues,
regeneration was to react on the economic and social conditions of the people. The Irishman was to be reanimated with proud patriotism, dignity, initiative, confidence and ambition.
. These are natural conditions of prosperity. The results are already showing. Irish entertain-
mentsf Irish national games, Irish customs, are -reviving. Irish capital is being led to invest at home, and Irishmen are encouraged to buy only ' home goods. Hence industrial life is quickening, unemployment is disappearing, and thereby one of the chief causes of emigration is 1 apidly being removed. The stimulation of industry will better the economic condition of the town populations and improve the condition of the peasantry—all by giving back to the Irish a / confidence in Erin and belief in their own energy, . and by turning back on Ireland their ambitions. Emigration, originally caused-by the vices of the land system and the disorganization of industry, continued because of a psychological condition that it itself produced. The English.had. made . life a sad business for the Irishman, and. had made Ireland a sorry place for him. Ireland became a purgatory where the Irish had to suffer


Gaelic League came upon the scene, aiming to change all that, to reconstitute the country life -on a better basis and to restore to it some of its previous gaiety and charm. It is restoring the pleasures of social life—dances, country concerts, traveling musicians with harps and pipes, Sunday gatherings, local festivals, evening ceilidhe, lecture rooms, furnished amusement halls, , carefully selected lending libraries.
The Sinn Fein movement has been described by.an Englishman, Sidney Brooks, as “the most

operative movement, and the faint pulsation of a democratic spirit have provided the haft.” Sinn Fein aims at delivering Ireland over to the Irish people. It brought about the withdrawal of the Irish members' from Westminster, and the setting up of a National Assembly in. Dublin. The boycott of English/ political. institutions which was to be practiced , was , to be modeled after the boycott by the Hungarians under Deak, which won for them their freedom from Austria.. Sinh Fein has the support of ninety per cent of
A Oy
'J
tif

“The Sinn Fein policy is by far the most efficient instrument that has-yet.been devised for winning Irish freedom, easy and flexible to wield, most bafflingly difficult to counter or beat down.” Sir Francis Vane, who put down the Easter Rising of 1916, says, “Behind Sinn Fein the sotd


■
'Sfie Noure dameSehokircic
of Ireland fights against injustice and wrong.” The practical constructive policies of Sinn Fein may be briefly stated: independence; reorganization of Irish industries and commerce; establishment of a consular service; re-establishment of a national merchant marine; industrial survey and development of national resources; establishment of a national stock exchange; creation of a national civil service; establishment of courts of arbitration; the development of the sea fisheries; the reformation and nationalization of education; the reform of the poor law system, and the employment of the able-bodied pensioners in the reclamation of' waste land, afforestation and other national reproductive works.	.
“ There is no event in the literary world to-day of more far-reaching effects, of more significance, or vaster, or more dramatic, than the revival of the Gaelic language and literature. It is true it is but a phase of the awakening of a nation, a whole people, from a thraldom centuries old, yet the effort which is being made to take a dormant tongue and make it once again the language of millions of people, the revival of a glorious literature, is an experiment wholly original in the world’s history, and possible only among such a people as the Irish, in whom love of Ireland and her own true institutions has been consecrated almost to the dignity of a religion.”
“The Irish literary and dramatic movement * is the most vital contribution that has been made to contemporary English literature.” (Lloyd R. Morris, in “The Celtic Dawn.”). The above quotation aptly puts the two branches into which the Irish literary’movement has split. The differences arose out of the question as to the relative values of nationality and cosmopolitanism in art. One view favored the rehabilitation of the native language and arts, and the creation bf a modern literature in Irish. This was fostered by Dr. Douglas Hyde, who published, in 1889, “Leabher Sgeuluigheachta” (A Book of Gaelic Stories). Four years later, the Gaelic League was formed to carry on the movement. Its objects are the preservation of Irish as a national language, the study of ancient Irish literature, and the cultivation of a modern literature in Irish. Its means are propaganda, the application of the doctrine? of a national renaissance on the basis of a national language.. It aimed to confer on the country a psychological education; by means of the national language, to secure the revival bf national art and literature,
the reconstruction of a national social system; to regenerate Ireland from within and teach her how to be a nation. The leaders of the movement would remind us of the words of Tacitus: “The tongue of the conquerors in the mouth of the conquered is but the language of slaves.” For their battle-cry, they blazoned the words of Thomas Davis, “An Irish-speaking Ireland will be free forever.” Since the first of all liberties is that of the soul, and since language is the soul of a nation, the genius of her people, the treasury of their beliefs and traditions, their type of mind and heart, all these surviving in and through language, the native tongue must not be allowed to perish. To the people of Ireland, the Irish tongue was the key to their history, their beliefs, their psychology, ancient literature, and potential literature—a whole world of ideas and intense passion.	.	'
The dictum of Max Mueller, that he “who knows but one language, knows none,” the leaders of the Irish revival used as the basis of their argument that Ireland must become bilingual as the Czechs, the Swiss, and the Flemish. English they would retain for the material life of the people, Irish they would revive for the moral, the spiritual, the intellectual. It would serve as a mental gymnastic for the children, and as a moral training, it would remake the Irish once more the Gael, giving back the old dignity, energy, initiative, of the people, and the material prosperity of Erin. The chief efforts. of the League are concentrated upon those places where Irish is still the every-day tongue of the people, principally in the West of Ireland. Irish magazines and papers are being printed; theatres for the production of plays in Irish are being established. In 1911, there were nine hundred and sixty-four branches of the League in existence; classes to teach the language were organized all over Ireland, and in many other places in the British Isles, in Australia, New Zealand, South America, France and the United States. In 1906 there were two thousand five hundred and fifty-one piimary schools in Ireland teaching the language as against one* hundred and .five in 1889, ‘ ninety-five thousand four hundred and seven children (1904) studying the tongue as against one thousand three hundred and seventy-one in' 1899, two thousand eight hundred applications for the Irish examinations of the Intermediate Board in 1905 as against two hundred and seventy-two in 1899. To-day, 1919, the papers speak of a children’s


Nocre tome Scholastic
37
‘■K.
national school strike being planned by Sinn Fein to force the adoption of the teaching of Irish by all the schools of the nation. Summer classes are organized to go to the West to learn from the peasants the correct accent, the music of the language and the spirit and tradition of the ancient culture. Besides,. excursions to-historic spots; reunions, lectures, discussions, concerts, dances, songs, village festivals, national festivals, are fostered by the League. An average of twenty thousand Gaelic books are ^old. annually. The clergy is backing the movement; Maynooth is the most fervent Gaelic center of the whole country. The people are beginning to use Gaelic more and more; signs, street-names, and advertisements appear in Irish. Wherever classes have been organized there have been aroused the most passionate feelings of love for language and country. It has been discovered that Irish is an integral part of the people’s nature, that though they spoke English they always thought in Gaelic. The revival of the language comes like a warm rain on a thirsty, barren land; everywhere the new growth is bearing fruit in intellectual stimulus and as a moral antiseptic. It has aroused all over Ireland a remarkable flight of the intellectual aspirations of the people. A new, genuine literary movement, descended from Davis and Young Ireland,
but different and much superior, has taken form. . Edward Walsh and “Speranza,” the noble and
It is a witness of the nation’s efforts to achieve its moral and mental independence. The initial stimulus of this revival was the recovery and study of old Celtic literature. Archeologists and philologists, such as O’Curry and O’Donovan of the 19th century, and, in recent times, as Dr. P. . W. Joyce, Standish, O’Qrady, Larminie, O’ . Donoghue, Dr. Sigerson, Lady Gregory, and Dr.
Hyde, have brought to light the treasures and literary splendor of the past, and have encouraged the study, translation, and popularization ' of the ancient texts and folklore. Scholars, such as Hyde, Strachan,,Sweet, Meyer, Bergin and Dinneen, are reviving the higher Celtic studies.
A people’s genius can expand freely only in the mother-tongue. The Irish language alone is capable of rendering with fidelity the shades, ideals and secrets of' Ireland’s soul. % The language is expressive, profound, and admirable; > its syntax is most regular and its vocabulary exceedingly rich. It contains some eighty thousand words as against four thousand for the Hebiew, for example. It has an extraordinary facility for the formation of new words, which is
an important point in a modem language? If is gifted with a marvelous prosody, rhyme being an Irish invention. Its orthography is extremely x logical. It is not too much to expect that despite all the prohibitory legislation of the British government, the Irish language will . flourish and become again within a very -short time the native tongue of the whole people. “Ireland—misgoverned	from Westminster, .
economically ruined by tinkering obtuse English politicians, thirty years ago intellectually stagnant—has produced a literature, great in the quality of its spiritual content.” (Lloyd R. Morris, in “The Celtic Dawn.”) The famous ancient bards of Ireland died out in the seven- ■ teenth century, and from then until the 19th century Irish literature languished. Then Thomas Moore and Maria Edgeworth started a distinctly national literature, and' were followed by J- J- Callanan, a translator from the Irish, and the poets and writers of Young Ireland: These were young intellectuals who followed O’Connell until the famous day at Clontarf and who then divided, part to follow Thomas Davis and part to accept the leadership of John Mitchell. Thomas Davis wished to accomplish a moral and intellectual reform in Ireland, and to this end he founded the “Nation”, and attracted to his banner James Clarence Mangan,
gifted mother of Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wils Wilde. JohnMitchellwas far more revolutionary . than Davis, and. to advance his doctrines he founded “The United Irishman.” The revolution he preached came to pass in 1848, but it failed and he was sent to prision, where he wrote his famous “Jail Journal.” About this time other writers were being heard, such as Alling- .. J ham, a lyricist of subtile charm and wistful -beauty; Ferguson, in whom the bard was reincarnated, a poet of high passion and stirring. -deeds, and Aubrey de Vere, the singer of quiet,. of religion, and meditation. In all these, Irish literature discovered an- imaginative vein of great wealth. But the thread was broken, the succession interrupted and the period, of stag- • ? nation followed. Apathy began to seize the people; the twilight darkened. Then came the glorious dawn that bore such splendid fruit in politics, in economic thought, in social amelioration. But nowhere was the dawn more glorious . than in the new literature it brought forth; . \ , Henry Seidel Canby in the Atlantic for January;	<
1919, speaks of the motive impelling the produc-
Moure dame Scholastic
tion of this literature in the following terms: “ This Irish idealism (that of the literary movement) is a desire for spirituality, for poetry, for beauty of thought and feeling, and so is in sharpest conflict -with our prosaic industrial civilization. Its ends are Irish self-respect, a sense of national being, the right to live and think and act in an I'ish way.”
The. thread was taken up again by Sir C. G. Duffy, of the Dublin Magazine .in 1887. The poems and legends of the past were the sources of inspiration, arid this Celtic note was reflected in Tennyson and Swinburne. We shall have to be content to touch only upon a few of the most outstanding figures who take part in this stirring x ’ pageant. The literature of a nation is not judged by the average of its production but by its mountain heights, its Homers, Dantes, Shakespeares. There are three such pinnacles among these modern Irish wi iters: poetry claims Yeats, the drama possesses Synge,- and in the novel there is George Moore. Of course, so high is the quality of the leaders in this Renaissance, there will be others who hold to other heroes. Another selection might be made at random, whose average might strike neatly as high as these. For example, following the same classification, there is George Russell (A. E.), Martyn, and James Stephens; or, Lionel Johnson, Lady Gregory, and St. John Er vine; or Hyde, Colum, and Buckley. .
(To be continued)
Varsity Verse.
The Same as Ever.
The boys who went across to fight Are back again at Notre Dame.
To us it seems but as a night
Since last they played a football game.
For they still have the “pep” of old, Their motto is, “They shall not pass.”
Behold them dressed in blue and gold,— The gallant nineteen twenty class.
—G. s. (3RD PREP.)
Milady Juggler.
I saw a fair juggler Who balanced two hearts.
But
It
The
one she soon dropped— shattered in parts.
other she guarded
As if she might care
To keep it in her heart And cherish it there.
I know a fair juggler Now tossing around
A heart to be guarded
Or—dropped on the ground.—p. s.
Thoughts.
To A Wayside Pimpernel.
A tiny scarlet flower bent
Its lovely head and coyly sent .
A timid blushing glance at me,
And quickly turned lest I should see.
The little sparkle of romance
That gleamed within the roguish glance
To me bespoke the flirting belle
For such it is—the Pimpernel.—j. s. m.
3 r’J
BY SENIORS.
I
I
Musicians should be very popular now: they are all that’s left to intoxicate us.
A secret is usually considered either as too good to keep or as not worth keeping.
The path of duty looks harder than it is; . the path of pleasure is harder than it looks.
Time works wonders; so would man if he put in twenty-four hours a day as time does.
If you love Ireland, do all that is decent to help her; but do not profane her cause by prostituting it to German propaganda against the Allied nations.
The Bolsheviki in this country should not object to haying a mob break up their meetings, since such action is so well in keeping with then-own .spirit and tactics.
A Rose.
I received today
The token of a rose;
It speaks, and seems to say, “My heart will never close.”
My sister sent the rose .
On her wedding, day;
I wonder if she knows
What a petalled heart can say?—b. a.
Just-You. ,
, Who makes the' world seem light and gay? . , Who’s smile keeps, bright life’s dreary day? ' Who makes the hard the easy way?
. ... just-you, Mother.
Who gives me strength to persevere?
. And when I’m sad . who brings me cheer
- With-words of kindness, soft .and dear?
Just you^Mother, •	' t
-w. R
L
1
^fie Noure fcameSehokwric
39
De Valera—President of the Irish Republic.
BY THOMAS J.’ TOBIN, *20.
•  , £;
When through the maze of incongruity with which the British government has tried to surround the cause of Ireland there comes a man who has the military skill to lead a scant hundred Irish Volunteers victoriously against the regulars of Beggarsbush Barracks, and the political ability to outwit Premier Lloyd George, it is but proper that? we acknowledge his genius. Such a man is Eamonn De Valera, a man of whom the Manchester Guardian says, “Any-/ where but in Ireland he would now be a states-V man in responsible office, swaying the destinies of his country.” Born in New York City, of an Irish mother and a Spanish father, the young De Valera was taken to Ireland at the age of six. From childhood he spoke English, French, and Spanish; when but twelve years old he was fluent in Gaelic. A mathematical genius at seventeen, he entered Blackrock College, whence
he was graduated in 1904. At various subsequent to-day a possibility if America does wjiat the
periods he was professor of science at Maynooth and professor of higher mathematics at Carys-gort Normal College in Dublin.
When De Valera joined the Irish Volunteers, he threw himself into the work of the organization with so much fervor that he soon rose to a position of responsibility and was assigned by President Padraic Pearse to one of the most
important districts in the area of operations. When, at the command of Pearse, he surrendered Boland’s Mills to the British on April 30, 1916, he was sentenced to be shot. ‘‘Shoot me if you will,” he said, ‘‘but arrange for iny men.” , With equal composure he received the news of his reprieve. At the first meeting of the Dail Eireann he was elected to succeed Pearse as the President of the Irish republic. De Valera is typical of the spirit that now animates the people of Ireland in their struggle for independence. He is a man of very different type from the excitable orators of Ireland’s past.
He is cautious against over-statement and inaccuracy of any kind, calm as Parnell and without Parnell’s imperiousness. Refined and and Mr. ^squith, three former British premiers, "cultured, he has a warm heart and a clear head, admitted the unity and the indivisibility of the Irish nation, Lloyd George now declares that'
“I have never tried to appeal ^o people’s hearts much,” he said in New York recently; “I have alw ys tried to address myself to their heads. ’ De Valera is undoubtedly the man bes_t fitted to guard against the faults of
his compatriots and to direct to best advantage -	■
their purpose to be free. •	' /
De Valera is in America as the head of the ' republic established by the will of the Irish people in accordance with the principles of self- , determination. He comes here entitled to speak • for the Irish nation with an authority as well-grounded as that with which President Wilson speaks for the United States or Lloyd George for England or Clemenceau for France. He	•
himself says, “I come directly from the people	- .
of Ireland to the people of America, convinced that the American people and consequently ‘ the American government, which as a government of the people ought to reflect the people’s will, will never consciously connive at or allow itself to be made a party to the suppression of the natural, God-given right of the Irish nation to its liberty. . . . The present opportunity is never to recur again. The idea of a community of nations recognizing law and a common right ending war among nations, as municipal law , has ended private wars among individuals, is
people of the world—the honest, the plain, people your President spoke of—pray and expect America will do. To lose this moment would be a disaster that it will be impossible to repair. . . . If America disappoints, then the right-minded, the good, the just in the world will be thrown back to a sullen and cynical despair. Democracy dies or else goes mad.”
What more direct answer to the query we frequently hear, “Why is De Valera in Amer- -ica?” could be desired?	.	/
By defeating the diplomats of Downing Street, who tried their utmost to keep the Irish question from intruding itself at Versailles, De Valera achieved his highest prestige. Now these sanie diplomats are endeavoring to stifle : the Sinn Fein by giving America the impression that Ireland is at last getting what is due her. If necessary, Sir Edward Cprson will repeat : his swash-buckling tactics of 1914. .
Ireland’s claim to independence is based upon her distinct nationality. Notwithstanding the fact that Lord Beaconsfield, Mr. Gladstone,
Ireland is not one nation but two. England; used against Hie leaders of the American Revolution the same .catch-cries she ..is now using against De Valera and his associates.


40
Nocre dame Schokwcic
The Irish admit, as did the Americans in 1776, that a minority has its rights, but they do not concede that the will of the minority should be allowed to prevail as a perpetual veto on the will of the majority. And nationalism in Ireland now is backed by a greater majority than that which supported the American Declaration of Independence.
Notre Dame is about to welcome Eamonn De Valera, soldier, educator, statesman,— “a man of genius,” according to the London News, “the well-equipped leader of a free people,” in the words of the New York Call, having “a fine understanding of present-day social backgrounds _ and a thorough-going sympathy with those ideals of economic democracy which are the dearest hope of the ' masses of mankind.” Notre Dame’s welcome should be. worthy of the eminence of her guest.
years of income. Because he was enamored of ease he made of life a most sensational failure. In smothering his moral sense he ended as all slich must end—ingloriously.
Laziness is a breeder of evil. When indulged it becomes a social menace and oftentimes, as is plain in the Hamby case, brings degradation and disaster. If a student succumbs to every inclination to idleness that presents itself it is apparent that in a world where work is the loadstone of success he will never move the universe to cheers by worthy achievement. And patently in a school where the axiom “laborare est orare” is a guiding principle, the idle, the intellectually indolent student has no more place than has the devil in a cowl.—w. c. h. •
Thoughts.
Scholastic Indolence.
BY JUNIORS.
On the morning of August 2nd of this year George* Hamby, “ super - criminal, ” handsome, cultured, a young man, of refined taste and manners, died in the electric chair at Sing Sing in punishment for a score of wholesale robberies and some half-dozen murders. This man went to his death with a strange secret locked in his heart; his real name was never revealed; of his origin and connections no trace has ever been discovered. The mystery of his youth, his debonnaire indifference maintained with perfect sangfroid to the endHmade him a subject of nation-wide notoriety. Feature-writers composed columns on his good looks and graceful phrases, alienists examined him with a great show of verbose erudition, the judge who condemned him shouted in court “you are a worse scourge than Jesse James,” cash-girls and “ sodaslingers” read with avidity of this adventurer, and mothers, listening to dinner talk, shook their heads and wondered whose boy he was. But the blonde-haired boy with the baffling blue eyes merely laughed at the furore he had _ raised and spoke of flowers and friendships and the “nonsense” of a hereafter.
A human riddle'was this combination of Captain Kidd and Raffles. The occasion and the motive of his career, however, he himself revealed: “I hate work.” At college, he explained, was indulged the laziness that later made him ready to “turn his first trick,” because by a few minutes of hazard he might gain some
A good loser is a “being apart.”
This time the steel workers have “struck out.” Self-betterment is best attained by self-sacrifice. Intemperance unlocks the floodgates of passion. Idiosyncracies are not an infallible sign of genius. In your search for Wisdom do not overlook Prudence.
How few thoughts worthy of the name are original.
The sun wakes up the worlds but we have to use an alarm.'	■ " .
If a man must lie, he had better cultivate a good memory.
Most of us try to reform our neighbor and neglect ourselves.	.
The proverbial bull in the China shop is now the “Jap Terrier.” ,
How can might achieve anything worth while unless right direct it? -	.	.
Articulation and oral expression of thought are: not perfectly synonymous.
Ten minutes of good luck makes us forget all the bad luck we have ever. had. -
A few people make the world go around while the rest merely sit on and ride. . .
A peacock may be proud, but he is not bothered with the changes in fashion.	/
||o£pe]|)ame|^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS VIVE- QUASI Ot^SMORin/RVS •
Entered as Second-Class Hail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the -UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.’
VOL. Mil.	OCTOBER u. 1919. ' NO. 3.
Board of Editors.
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21. Arthur B, Hope, *20
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20
William H. Robinson, ’20
In accordance with her annual custom, Notre Dame sets aside this year the thirteenth of October, the Feast of St. Edward, the Confessor, as “Founders’ Day,” Founders’ Day. on which to pay honor to the memory of Father Edward Sorin and the other great men who by their faith and labor raised up this great school for God and country. Those of us who as yet have but a hazy half-knowledge of the beginnings of our Alma flatter should on that day learn something of the romance of her foundation—a real romance, vivid with life, glorious with heroism, pregnant with inspiration—and then hold fast to the ideals which the retrospect will surely have given us: Those who are already acquainted with the story of those holy men in their brave struggle in the cause of the ancient Faith and their newly-adopted country should on that day look back at. them again, and again borrow strength of their 'strength and devotion. And, having visualized to ourselves their sacrifice to home and country and their sublime courage in braving the handships of the American wilderness, we may all, old students and new, well take for our motto what must have always been theirs, “Ad majorem Dei gloriam.”—w. h. r.
“The political status of Ireland is purely a domestic problem.” Such is the contention of England. ' But in what way is the question domestic? We have
The Irish “Question.” finished a war for the self - determination of all nations. We have conscientiously applied
this vindicated principle to all those nations which were held in subjection by the central empires, no matter how vague their boundaries, or how novel their claim to independence. But now when the opportunity comes of testing the sincerity of .our purpose in the war, we are told that the question of Ireland, whose anguished cries for self-determination ,have been heard for centuries, is a purely domestic affair. This in the face of -President Wilson’s declaration that we went to war in order to win for all those who desired it the right of self-determination! “A domestic problem?” Could there be a more potent illustration of the slave mind in its vicious attempt to reconcile contradictories? If America, the champion of oppressed nations, can stand idly by and witness such a travesty of justice as England is staging, . if America will permit the principles for which her* sons died to be ignored and frustrated by British diplomacy, if America can reconcile the utterances of her President with the conduct of England—if America can do these things, then God help America!—T. j. t.
That the excellent work of the Society of the Fatherless Children of France deserves the heartiest moral and material support of Catholics everywhere in America is the testimony of the following letter by His Eminence. Cardinal Arnette, the highest Catholic authority in France, to the Canon Cabanel, who performed such distinguished service with the “Blue Devils” in the war and who is now the representative of the French High Commission in the United States:
M. Abbe Cabanel, Military Chaplain,
My dear Chaplain:
I learn that the work called the ‘’Fatherless Children of France” is still being made, in the United States, the object of unjustified attacks, asxa result of confusing it with another organization, which'could not inspire Catholics with the same confidence.
I should like to say again that after repeated investigations, I have reached the conviction that the funds collected by this work are distributed to the orphans with entire impartiality and complete respect for the religious conviction of families.
I again express my thanks for all that generous America is doing, and wishes to do, for the dear children of France whose fathers have given their lives for their country and for the cause of right.
Believe me, my dear Chaplain,
Devotedly in our Lord, (Signed) Leon Ad. Card: Arnette, .
Archbishop of Paris, August 19, 1919.
42	^eNocredameSdidlcwde
University Bulletin.	Concert by Galli-Curci.
I	Hereafter the Scholastic will be on sale at the
University news-stand in the basement of the Main Building, as well as in the book store. It . can be obtained there at noon on Saturdays and . after, at ten cents the copy. In the future it can ■	also be had on the campus Saturday afternoons.
.	DISCIPLINE.
,	Father Gallagan, Prefect of Discipline,
■ requests that the students refrain from whistling, ■	scraping of feet, scuffling, and similar disorders
i	while attending entertainments in Washington
Hall. He also wishes to remind students again to refrain from damaging the grass. Corby
:	Hall will please take special notice.
The President wishes to call the attention of the students to the rule which prohibits smoking :	under or about the steps of the Main Building.
'	It is to be remembered too that. smoking is
prohibited in all buildings of the Universtiy, - except in the recreation rooms of the several •	halls. This applies to the basement corridor in
■	the Main Building.
;	The office of the Director of Studies will be
i . open hereafter from 9 :oo to 11:00 A. M. and 5	from 2:30 to 4:00 P. M. It will be closed
‘	Thursday morning, Saturday afternoon, and on
, Sunday.
:	THE STUDENTS’ RETREAT.	.
i	The annual retreat for the students will begin
;	on October 26, and end the following.Saturday,
1	November 1, the Feast of All Saints. Reverend
George Finnigan, a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band and a returned chaplain of the war, will conduct the excercises.
SPECIAL TRAIN TO INDAINA GAME.
The athletic management announces that a special Notre Dame train will be run to the Indiana game at Indianapolis on November 1, if as . many as 200 students will signify their intention of going. If you wish to witness this big game, leave your name with Coach Rockne or Coach Dorais at the athletic office directly above the book store in the Main Building.
A complete course in all the different phases of art will in the near future be instituted under the direction of Dom Gregory Gerrer, O. S. B., the able artist who last year reorganized the art gallery at Notre Dame. Students interested in . - such a course should see either the Director of
Studies or Father Gregory. r-L. L. w.
'' ’ - 1 ' - ' '
'■ ■' - . ’• ' ’’ .	- • ■ ’ : 2 :

To say that the audience of more than three . thousand people were thrilled by 'the concert given in the University gymnasium last Saturday night by Mm?. Galli-Curci is putting the fact . feebly. Her success' -was complete, and the great soprano was given the greatest ovation ever, accorded an artist here. The ease with which she sang most difficult .passages, and the crystal clearness and music of her almost impossibly high notes repeatedly brought forth from the audience audible expressions of wonder.
The difficult technique of the songs she sang was seemingly forgotten, and the ease, warmth, and delicacy of her expression was little less than marvellous. Probably no other living singer would attempt publicly the ‘ singing of the F above High C, but to Galli-Curci nothing could seem more natural. From soft, flute-like tones high in the upper register, her voice swells into its full power and beauty; and the singer sustains notes seemingly beyond human capacity. The artist also combines a personal charm with her wonderful voice, and her gracious manner in responding liberally with encore numbeis won for her the hearts of hei audience. Homer Samuels played the accompaniments skillfully and sympathetically, and Manuel Berenguer. showed himself a master of the flute.
The program opened with two songs by Aine, “The Plague of Dove,” and “The Lass with the Delicate^ir.” * The quality of the singer’s voice was zipparent from the' opening of the first number, and an exceptionally high note in her second song caused her listeners to look at each other in amazement. Three numbers from Verdi’s “Traviata” followed and met with t^e fullest appreciation. The aria, “Thou Brilliant Bird” sung with flute accom- ' paniment, served to reveal further the perfection of'the voice which was at times scarcely dis- , tinguishable from the. notes of the instrument. “L’Heure Exquise,” together with two Spanish numbers, and Massenet’s “Crepuscule” completed this group, characterized by exquisite shading. Of the sixth group “The Little Bells of Sevilla,” written ^jy the accompanist, met with most favor. “The Shadow Song” from “Dinorah,” by, Meyerbeer, with flute accompaniment, brought the program to a . brilliant. close. The difficult rendeiing of the cadenzas together with the flute obligato,
brought forth ardent applause. A beautiful large bouquet of roses was presented to the singer as she bowed adieu.
After hearing Galli-Curci in concept one can easily account for. the phenomenal success she has achieved in so short a time. Most deservedly is she called the greatest of sopranos. It is hoped that the University may be favored with the appearance of other such artists.
d. j. p.
Local News. .	'
Found.—A lady’s handbag, containing a purse. Apply to Brother Alphonsus of Brownson Hall.
—All persons at the University should have the mail coming to them addressed to Notre Dame, Indiana, and not to South Bend, if they wish to receive it without delay.
—The New England Club held their first smoker of the year in the recreation room of Badin Hall on Friday night, October 10th. All the “far-Eastemers” were on hand with their characteristic enthusiasm.
—The Executive Committee of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus has appointed a reception committee to receive Eamonn de Valera, president of the Irish Republic, who is to visit the University next Wednesday.
—The civil engineers of the University have reorganized the Surveyors’ Club, under Frank Goodall as president, Enrique Rosselot as vicepresident, James P. Martin as secretary, and Alfred Abrams as treasurer. Professor Maurus is sponsor for the dub. _	‘
—As a result of the. communication published in our last issue concerning the death and burial of Captain George Campbell, of the A. E. F., in France, the South. Bend Elks will renew their efforts to secure the transfer of the body to this country.
—The day students of the University met in the Knights of Columbus building in South Bend Thursday, October 2nd, and elected as officers John Buckley, president; Ralph Bergman, vice-president; Walter Sweeney, secretary; and James O’Toole, treasurer.
—Three Notre Dame men, Joseph Thompson, Elwyn M. Moore and W. J. Fitzgerald, won honors in the golf = tournament held at the Miami Country Club bf Mishawaka on Saturday, the 5th of October. Moore placed third
in the championship class, while Thompson won first place and Fitzgerald second place in their respective dasses.
—At a meeting of the juniors held Friday night, October 3rd, Gerald Hoar was reelected president of the dass of 1921; Frank Coughlin, of Chicago, was made vice-president; Thomas Van Aarle, of Toledo, secretary; and Cyril Kasper, of Faribault, Minnesota, treasurer.
—Owing to the fact that a number of its members have entered the Novitiate, the four-part choir of the Seminary has been converted into a three-part choir. Under the direction of Father Marshall, the choir will, no doubt, in spite of its handicap maintain rhe high standard of other years.
—The junior, sophomore, and freshmen journalists met in the Library last Monday to form a Journalists’ Club. Professor John M. Cooney, Dean of Journalism, was made honorary president; Norton Sullivan, president; George C. / Kerver, vice-president; H. W. Flannery, secretary; Robert Dennis, treasurer, and William A. A. Castellini, press agent.
—Reverend Thomas E. Burke, former prefect of discipline, returned to Notre Dame last week and has taken up his duties as secretary of the University. Father William Moloney, the secretary for the past seven years, is‘now the registrar for the University and secretary of the Alumni Assodation. He will start soon on the final drive for the funds for erecting Old Students’ Hall.
—Mrs. Aline Kilmer, widow of the late Joyce Kilmer, the great soldier-poet, will lecture before the dasses in college English here in the last week of October. Mrs. Kilmer’s lectures on present-day poetry have been given with notable success in Boston, at the Catholic Summer School, Cliffhaven, and at several of the larger colleges and universities of the country. This is Mrs. Kilmer’s second tour of the West.
.—The Brownson Literary and Debating Society began its fifteenth successive y.ar by the, election of officers last Thursday evening. Joseph Tierney, winner of the sophomore oratorical contest last year, was unanimously chosen president. James Connerton was selected for the vice-presidency. J. Worth Clark was the choice for secretary,. Emmett Sweeney for treasurer, George Hennegan for sergeant-at-arms, and.Leo L. Ward for publidty agent. . Brother Alphonsus, founder and sponsor of the ,
44	Nocre dame Schdasric
society, exhorted the members to make the most of the excellent opportunity for speaking afforded by the society, and concluded with a well-deserved word of praise for the retiring president, Alden A. Cusick.
—An unusually large numbei of students turned out for the first meeting of the University Glee Club held on Monday, September twentyninth. It is very likely that men from former years will be given preference in the selection of the personnel, although Mr. George O’Connell, who will direct the organization this year, declares that better singers among the new men may displace any of the old vocalists. Mr. John J. Becker, who had charge of the Glee Club last year, has been forced to give up the position on account of the greatly increased work which the heavy registration has laid upon his department. During his term as director of the club Mr. Becker set an example of untiring zeal in getting the best results.
—The Dome Board for the year 1920, announced Thursday by the editor-in-chief, consists of the following men: Charles A. Grimes, editor-in-chief; Paul Scofield, Thomas Tobin, Thomas Beacom, J. Sinnott Meyers, Edward Meehan, Robert E. O’Hara, Leo L. Ward, Dillon Patterson, Norton Sullivan and John Buckley, associate editors; . Vincent F. Fagin, art editor; Thomas Waters, assistant art editor; Lawrence S. Stephan, business manager; Harry Nestor, assistant business manager. The new board asks the cooperation of the entire student body in helping make this Dome the best ever published at the University. Contributions especially desired from the students include local humoious sketches, photographs, and campus gossip. This year’s book will give some pages to a section contributed exclusively by the Alumni of the University. In order to make this new section successful the Board invites the alumni to submit photographs and literary contributions as well as class write-up's and personals. In thus appealing for the support of the student body and the Alumni, the Board is asking that its own work, already outlined and begun, be supplemented and enhanced by the voluntary contributions. The Dome is in a sense the book of every student of the school, and the editors promise to shape the 1920 volume in such manner as to make it interesting for all.	.
.	—Grimes-Meyers.
Personals.
—Richard J. Dunn, Emmet J. Kelley, and Verdin Hoarty are among the Notre Dame graduates who will take the Illinois Bar examina' tion this fall.
—Lloyd Morency, student of Corby Hall three years ago, who was recently discharged from the service, has returned to the University to complete his studies in Law.
—Louis Musmaker, a sophomore of last year, stopped last week to visit old friends. Lou has • entered the University of Michigan in the department of liberal arts.
—“Abie” Lockard, the “Little General” of the Sorin baseball team last year, visited his many friends here last week. “Abie” is now working for the T.oledo Blade. Watch the , subscription list grow!
—Lorenzo A. Glasscott (LL. B.,’18,) is now one of the successful young lawyers of Michigan City, Ind., and is located in the offices of Judge Tuttle there. We expect an occasional visit from the “City of Sand Hills.”
—Mr. Thomas Walsh (LL. D. ’17) has been appointed a member of the American Commission to Lithuania. The latest news concerning him is that he arrived in Stockholm, Sweden, on the way to assume his post in Lithuania.
—Louis Finske (LL. B., ’19) is taking postgraduate work in Law at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C. “Louie” is an ardent * student of Blackstone and we know that he will make an excellent Notre Dame representative.
—William Henry Reeves, a former student of the Seminary, is now in the American College at Rome. After receiving the appointment from Archbishop Glennon, of St. Louis, he sailed on September 20, to take up his studies for the priesthood.
—Due to the crowded condition of the University, Kenneth McCracken, sophomore in Mechanical Engineering last year, is now attending the University of Detroit. We regret that he will be unable to give his services to the varsity baseball team next spring.
—Announcementof the marriage of Miss Mary Cleveland, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Cleveland, of Los Angeles, Cal., to William Kirk Mohn, of San Francisco, Cal., has been received at the University. Miss Cleveland is a graduate of the Egan Institute of Music and Drama, of
life Noure dameSchokwcic
Los^ngeles, and at present is with theAmparito Guillot Company as premier danseuse. “Bill” was a track and football star at the University last year, and the Scholastic joins his many friends in extending him hearty congratulations.
-—Three students who were attending the University last year have entered theological seminaries. Joseph Rick is at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, while Marcel Keliher and George Scott have entered St. 'Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore.
—James W. Hoskins (Ph. C. ’19), of Lansing, Michigan, witnessed the Notre Dame-Kalamazoo game last Saturday. “Jim” was always interested in athletics while at Notre Dame and his rooting Saturday indicated that he had forgotten none of the “ole fight” spirit. His many friends wish him success.	_
—Mr. William Hamilton, secretary of the Indiana State Library Commission, visited the University Library this week and was very favorably impressed with the building and equipment. Mr Hamilton also complimented the librarian, Doctor Foik,upon his efficient management, this being the only school library in the state which is operated exclusively by student employes.
—Harry Richwine, student of 1916-17, has returned to the University to complete his studies in Law. Harry was one of the first Notre Dame men to join the service. After receiving his commission as second lieutenant at Fort Benjamin Harrison, he spent fourteen months overseas, where he remained until about a month ago. His old friends will welcome him back to the University.
—Rev. Dom Gregory, O. S. B., has returned to the University after a short vacation following the summer school. Father Gregory has finished his work of retouching the collection of Italian Masters contained in the University galleries and will start a full course in art if a sufficient number of students apply. Father Gregory’s reputation in the field of art is in itself a guarantee of his course. His return is heartily welcomed by the students and faculty.
—Faculty members were pleasantly surprised recently in hearing that Theodore (Ted) Wagner, whose name was placed upon the Notre Dame Honor Roll last June, is very much alive. Ted refuses to accept the reports of his demise and is now using his Notre Dame journalistic training, to prove that he is anything but a “dead one.”
45
As editor of the Camp Grant. Roll Call he has about convinced the army at least that he is still upon the payroll. Ted is a newphew of Prof. F. X. Ackermann and was among the first Notre Dame volunteers. He is now attached to the Sixth Field Battalion, Camp Grant, Ill.
—News reached Notre Dame of the marriage of Miss Olive Shafer, of Lemars, Iowa, to Lt. Emmet P. Mulholland (LL. B., ’16) of Fort Dodge, Iowa. Lt. Mulholland was severely wounded by shrapnel in the Argonne Forest while serving with the Eighty-second division, and upon his return to the United States was assigned to U. S. General Hospital No. 29 at ’ Ft. Snelling. The marriage ceremony took place ' in the officers’ ward of the hospital with Capt. C. Arthur MacLeod, post chaplain, officiating. As soon as Lt. Mulholland is discharged from the -service, he expects to return to Ft. Dodge, Iowa, -and resume the real estate business.
—We take pleasure in quoting the following interesting extract from a letter of Mr. M. F. Healy (LL. B.. 1882) of Fort Dodge, Iowa, to ~ Father Burns, President of the University. Mr. . / Healy is the father of Kerndt Healy (Ph. B. ’14)	-
who is now a seminarian in Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.:	.
I graduated from the law department at Notre Dame in June, 1882, or thirty-seven years ago, and the interests of the great school have been near my heart ever since. My three brothers and I attended there, as well as a nephew and my two sons, while Saint Mary’s has claimed two of my sisters and my oldest daughter, and the younger daughters.will follow her later on.
When I first went to Notre Dame in the fall of 1880 the well beloved Father Corby was president. If seems only a very short time since I saw him—mild-mannered, dignified, and loved by all the students. In the summer of 1881 he was succeeded by the brilliant and accomplished Father Thomas E. Walsh. I spent a year there during his presidency and saw him again when I visited ’ there at commencement in 1889. Father Morrissey, of course, we all know very well; and then too. Father ' Cavanaugh, whom I have had the pleasure of meeting frequently within the last seven or eight years.	,
I know of no nobler profession and calling than that of priest and teacher, and I am looking forward with' great delight to the day when my son will have finished . his course and entered upon what I hope may be many yefars of labor as a priest and teacher in the Congregation	'
of the Holy Cross.	.	'	‘ .
I am a bit reminiscent this afternoon, and before I-began this letter, while sitting here in the darkness, I . have seen many of the old familiar figures of Notre ' Dame-5—Fathers Corby, Walsh, Morrissey, and Maher,	.
Kirsch, Fitte, Stoffel, Toohey, Regan, and also somez . : of my old teachers—Unsworth, Stace, good old Joe z Lyons, Edwards, the immortal Martin McCue,'and a .	/
long line of Brothers, long gone to their reward. .
v..
houre dame Scholastic
46
The Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce.
The Notre. Dame Chamber of Commerce held its first general meeting of the school year on Monday, September 29th. The attendance of the two hundred and fifty students establishes a record for the organization. Father O’Hara welcomed the industrial engineers who joined with the commerce students in the chamber, and personally registered all the men in order to obtain information as to past business experience and their future prospects. Notre Dame has a most cosmopolitan enrollment, there being thirty-eight states and seventeen foreign countries represented by its students, and hence the interchange of ideas from such widely separated sources should result in great benefit to the members of the commerce department. It has been necessary this year to divide the Chamber into four groups: a domestic commerce division for juniors and seniors, a foreign commerce section, and two groups for the lower classmen. "
The following program of subjects for papers by members of the Chamber has been arranged for coming meetings:
Section 1.—“Army Training as an Incentive to Education,” by Robert E. Williams, and “Tracing Lost Shipments,” by John J. Hahler, on October 5; “Technical Knowledge in Salesmanship,” by Louis F. Moore, and “Reconstruction in Germany,” by James McNeff, on October 12; “The Dairy Industry in Wisconsin,” by Arthur Duffy, and “The Luxury Tax,” by Thomas F. Fitzgerald, on October 19th; "Liberty Loan Campaigns and the Sale of Industrial. Bonds,” by Vincent Donahue, and “Taxation for Flood Prevention,” by W. J. E. Shea, on November 2nd; "National Advertising and the Retailer,” by Robert O’Connor, and “Window Dressing,” by David A. Bell, on November 9th; “The Manufacture of Pearl Buttons,” by Frank Motier, on November 16th.	-
Section 2. “The Miller’s Margin of Profit,” by L. G. Goldcamp, and “Fort Wayne as a Jobbing Center,” by Cornelius J. Hayes, on October 6th; “ Clean-up and Paint-up Campaigns,” by John Uebbing, and “The Telephone as a Farm Necessity,” by Edward H. Ryan, on October 13th; “The Trade Acceptance in the Grocery Business,” by T. McDonald, and “New York as a Manufacturing Center,” by Bart C. Griffin, on Octbber 20th; “The Farmer and the Commercial Organization,” by Earl C. O’Donnell, and “Economic. Losses in Chicago Builders’ Strike,” by Richard Nash, on November 3rd;. “Mississippi Valley Coal,” by John C. Norton, and "The Traffic Expert,” by Forrest Cotton, on November 10th; “Barge Lines on the Mississippi Valley Coal,” by Paul H. Castner, and “The Productions in the Live Stock Market,” by John M. Montague, on November 25th.	. .
Athletic Notes.
____t
NOTRE DAME 14; KALAMAZOO O.
Playing off traditional Notre Dame form during the first half of the battle against an aggregation of gritty “gridders” from Kalamazoo College, Coach Rockne’s men put in the reverse and succeeded in counting fourteen points before Walter Eckersall blew the final whistle in the game of last Saturday.'
Gipp, “Dutch” Bergman, Captain Bahan, arid “Cy” Kasper starred consistently behind a line that was noticeably weak during the greater part of the fray. Time after time during the first half, the aggressive Wolverines broke through and held the Gold-and-Blue backs to meager gains. Bergman showed a flash of his old-time form when in the fourth quarter the little meteor skirted Kazoo’s right end for a fifty-yard sprint that resulted in Notre Dame’s final touchdown.
“Bernie” Kirk of Notre Dame kicked the first ball of the season to Strome, who was stopped short in an ambitious attempt to penetrate Notre Dame’s forward wall. Kalamazoo followed a brief series of line plunges with a forward pass which failed, the ball going to Notre Dame on. downs. “Bergie” advanced the pigskin twenty yards around the left wing of the enemy, but the visitors braced> and for the remainder of the quarter presented a faultless defense as well as an alarming offense, centered around Casteel. In the second round Notre Dame entered with determination, but a fumble and penalties stimulated Kalamazoo to a snappy attack. Dorais began wholesale substitutions, and Gipp featured in a smashing journey toward the enemy’s goal. Again the Yellow and Black braced, and the quarter ended with Casteel advancing the ball for substantial gains.
We have no information as to the drift of Coach Dorais’ lecture between halves, but suffice-it to say that for the second act the Gold and Blue dashed out to formation determined to stage a drive that would reduce the prowess of the visiting coterie. Gipp . and Malone performed brilliantly during the third quarter, fairly bewildering the enemy with their sensational end-runs.; With the ball on Kalamazoo’s five-yard line, Captain Bahan smashed -through for the first touchdown of the season. Bahan annexed one more point by placing a perfect kick ever the bar. .	.
I
Noure dome Scholastic
Dorais injected a crowd of substitutes within the first minutes of the final quarter, and the Michigan men were forced to settle down to a gruelling defensive. Kazoo, somewhat partial to passes, failed in a difficult forward. The ball in Notre Dame’s possession, Bergman got away with a sensational run that resulted ' in another touchdown. Bahan kicked goal, and Bergman was well on his way to another goal when the end was called. u
Captain Strome, who was badly injured in the final quarter, McKay, Casteel, and Thompson were the stars for the Kalamazoo outfit. The game was exceptionally well attended, and the efforts of a bevy of cheer leaders led by one Dempsey were very successful. Line-up:
Notre Dame (14)	Kalamazoo (0)		
Kirk, Kiley-	L.	E.	J. Thompson
Crowley, Cudahy .	L.	T.	Mishica
Saunders, Ambrose	L.	G.	Van Zandt
Madigan, Trafton	C		Clay
H. Anderson	R.	G.	Gurlingham
Coughlin, Shaw	R.	T.	Lambke
E. Anderson	R.	E.	Brackett
Brandy, Bahan	Q-	B.	Casteel
Mohardt, Gipp	L.	H.	McKay
Bergman, Malone	R.	H.	■	Stone
Kasper, Phelan	F.	B.	G. Thompson
Sum mary: T ouchdowns:		Bahan	and Bergman.
Goals from touchdowns: Bahan 2. Referee, Walter Eckersall of Chicago; umpire. Cooper of Lehigh University; linesman, Cooke, of the University of Indiana.
—A.. W. Slaggert.
*** .
Mount Union is the attraction on Cartier Field to-day at 3 P. M. Coach Rockne’s eleven expects victory, but the score will depend on the results of this week’s drill behind closed 'gates. The Kalamazoo contest took all of the presumption out of the men and the result of the hard grind since then should show this afternoon. The visitors were crushed last week by West Virginia, 34-0.
X	*
' * * T
The Interhall Football League will take the field tomorrow morning at ten o’clock in a game between Walsh and Corby. Badin is slated to meet tjie Sorin aggregation in the afternoon. Every hall has had satisfactory turnouts during the last ten days and the work of the various coaching staffs is beginning to show results. Badin and Corby with a wealth of heavy material are favorites; Walsh stands well, and is working hard; Brownson is light and speculative, and Sorin is rated as the “dark
horse” of the league. Officials for the games will be named by Rockne and Dorais.
The schedule of games for the season reads: October 12th	Walsh-Corby and Badin-Sorin
October 19th	Brownson-Corby and Walsh-Badin
October 26th	Badin-Brownson and Sorin-Walsh
November 2d	Sorin—Brownson and Badin-Corby
November 9th	Corby-Sorin
November 16th	Walsh-Brownsori
* * * ,
Corby Hall’s football warriors led by Coach Larson opened the season in a game with the Cadets of the Culver Military Academy last Saturday at Culver. The soldiers seasoned and well drilled, scored touchdowns in the first three, quarters, but failed to kick goals. Corby’s new team lacked training and only by sheer fight kept the score down to 18-0. John Murphy, of Portland, Oregon, did at end a giant’s work for the haliers, allowing no gains around his side and frequently pulling the Culver backs down from behind as they circled the opposite wing. The entertainment was in the usual thorough manner of Culver.
*	' t
* * ’
“Jake Kline’s Preps” met and defeated the team of the Elkhart High School as the curtainraiser for the opening day of the Varsity last Saturday. The youngsters gained ground almost at will and kept the play in the visitors’ territory at all times. Touchdowns were scored in the first and third quarters by McGibney and Tong, and both goals were kicked from difficult angles. A return game in Elkhart is scheduled for a week from today, and other games, including a Chicago trip, are being considered.
* -. * ♦ , .
The Studebaker Corporation have through their president, Mr. Erskine; promptly lined up behind Coach Rockne in his campaign for more South Bend and community support of Notre Dame’s athletic program—by subscribing for one hundred season tickets. The results of the campaign will have much to do with the success of the efforts-being made to bring to Notre Dame the best teams of the West in all lines of sports next year.	-
***
The Freshmen squad has elected Frederick Larson captain for this year, Larson played center on Notre Dame’s S. A. T. -C. eleven last fall in whirlwind style, and will be just the man to lead the yearlings in the scrimmages these next few weeks in the work of polishing the Varsity.—E- M. Starrett.
a
iT"
48
Noutv dame Scholastic
Safety Valve.
Cheer Up.
Folks told us that July the first, would find a sorry world
7 Each workman in the land would shed a tear, Because of the imprudent legislation that was passed
Prohibiting the sale of wine and beer;
It hasn’t caused the sorrow that our friends believed it would,
Their statements we have found are far from true— Though liquor isn’t sold or manufactured any more
We’ve Bevo left and Pluto Water too.	'
Most anyone who wants to, can acquire other tastes Although it seemed to him he never could,
The fellow who hates cabbage gets to like it bye and bye Each man could feast on olives if he would;
The world’s not gone to pieces as our learned friends believed
The people that you meet are far from blue— Though liquor isn’t sold or manufactured any more
We’ve Bevo left and Pluto Water too.
*
* *
We read in Scripture that “When the devil is cast out of a man he walketh through dry places,” which goes to show that the prohibitionists have made this country the hellova place.
***
Try This on Your Victrola
Though Galli Curci’s performance last Saturday in the Notre Dame Gymnasium was rather remarkable it will be noted that she set no new Gym records.
Another Atrocity .
If the Germans knew how many American people would murder the Armistice in the pronunciation they never would have signed it.
**♦
“ Darling,” she said as she toyed with a button on his coat and~blushed prettily, “will you forget all about me when you go back to school and meet so many other people who are so much better than I am, or will you sometimes think of me just a little and write to me to cheer me in my loneliness?”
“Forget you,” he sobbed as a lump rose in his throat and he tried hard to swallow the back of his neck— “forget those amber brown eyes and that wonderful fudge you make—never!”
♦ ** '
The Worst Condemnation
He’s a Freshman and he has other faults.
*** Z
Soul Music.
Some love to hear the violin, its sweet tones touch their hearts,	.	.
The saxophone is loved by many too, .
The music of the clarinet brings heaven to some souls To some only the Cellos’ notes ring true;
I’ve heard of people who have raved about sweet organ tones	.	'
■ We all know men who dearly love the drum. But for myself the music of the soul is deepest when
Three-hundred factory girls are chewing gum. ;
I love to hear the harmony of sixty packs of gum As every kind of teeth are driven through,
And some are gold and some cement and many porcelain	’
Which seem to give the tone a different hue;
For all, the music of the harp, the clarinet and fife Believe me friend I wouldn’t give a crumb, <
But oh, my heart’s enraptured when my sad ears chance to hear
Three hundred factory girls all chewing gum.
**♦ '
“Yes,” he said, throwing a smile with the speed of a big league pitcher, “when we were in the Argonne I got the A. W. 0. L. Medal!”
*** ' .
In these days of bolshevism and-J. W. W.’s its quite natural to see the Reds win out.	'
♦ **
“How terrible,” the school teacher exclaimed after reading the heading Cicotte Falls. “They’re still fighting on the Eastern front.”
***
It’s a happy day in the life of a Walsh halier when someone ddtsn’t knock his multum in parvo through his parallelogram.	-
. *** .
And I Know.
She’s as pretty as can be
And I love her, ya! oui, oui, -	_
And the knowledge she has gained is comprehensive, But to go with her I’m sure
Would in future keep me poor,	„
For I’ll say her ways are certainly expensive.
If I bring her bitter sweets—
They’re the only thing she eats—
Her blue eyes will grow as beaming as the day;
On each bon bon she will bite—:
If its soft inside, goodnight!—
She will make a face and throw the sweet away.
Should T take her to a show—
For she says she loves to go—
If the first half act does not produce a thrill;
She will murmur in my ear	'	-
Let’s get out—I hate this, dear, -	’
And I’ve lost another good five dollar bill.
If we go in for a drink	'
She will order something pink '
That most probably she’s never seen before; .
At the first taste she will say,	"
Take this horrid stuff away
And I’ll find that we are headed for the door.
She’s as pretty as can be. '
And I love her ya! oui, oui, _
And she’s learned a thing or two at boarding school Should I ask her “marry me”?
She would probably agree .
But I wouldn’t, cause I know, she’s * a damphool.
. We notice . that a faculty Housing Committee has been appointed to take care of the increased enrollment. Why not appoint the Prefect of Discipline as a committee? He has made many vacant rooms in the past.
•L“
the Moen? &ame Scholastic AdCepuisemenCs
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave. ' BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	fi.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, ----- .50
Suit Case,........................... .25
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL
BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M.
. if desired.
Auditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
Introducing to you a new collar
BARRACKS designed for com* fort and style.
* [Now on sale.
OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA ~ U«HTgP»HM«TaCOtXMI CO. TROT. ■. V.
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame. _
sow w___
MAX ADLER CO. SOUTH BEMD, IBD.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manner
Che Moure Same Scholastic AfiCeptisements
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana
-	(Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.	'
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Ratbs and Lbttbrs ofCrediT Payable Throughout thb World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
Mechanics Tools
Draughtman’s Tools
G. E. Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard (Opposte Poetoffice) Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind.
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
an South Main St _	. T .
opp.PMtotBN	South Bend, Ind.
. Safe
SPALDING
Boss Ball Equipment
UNIFORMS. CAPS. BELTS STOCKINGS. SHOES.BATS.
BALLS. GLOVES. MASKS. ETC.
Catalogue on Request .
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
211 STATE STREET, CHICAGO
Schuler, Kllngel & Co.
Whuhsak Fruits andProduct
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit”
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
. Notre Dame News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining
- 72 Madison Ave., New York .
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. . Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. . ; Gowns for judiciary. Pulpit and Choir
Citizens National Bank and Trust Co.
112-14 W.Jefferson Blvd. . South Bend. Indi
Wf
1 ’ .
‘‘5
1 . i
\
□
the Notre &ame Scholastic Advertisements
- # .
i
I '	■	...
oil
j^t. harp's College anti acahemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
' Church
College .
Gymnasium
Academy
Recognition by the Indiana Static Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned;	.
•	Credits accepted by the leading.Universities
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection .of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrustedto her care. .
' Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President.	■	'
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA

□
□

?
Mntoersitp of J^otre l^ame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
College of Srts> anb Kettersf.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of ^rienre.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Srrfjiterture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial-Engineering.
CoUege.of %ato.
College of ^tne arte.
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, -Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
Preparatory Skfjool.
■ , Variant Courses.
B
£t. Cbtoarb Halt For Young Boys.
as a
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by the press and by the public college whose work is of the same grade as that of the most highly endowed
colleges or die best state universities. Its' atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended die University cd Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.	•
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.	.
Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOIRE DAME. INDIANA ,