This book is not to be fras th© Library
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
APRIL 20 Nineteen Thirty-four
M
No better tobacco grows than is used in old GOLDS. And they are PURE. (No artificial flavoring)
May we suggest that you put aside your usual brand for a few days and try OLD
band or her friends prefer. But maybe it wouldn’t be her choice at all, if she let her taste decide.
ANY a woman smokes the cigarette her hus-
GOLDS? Notice the appealing natural flavor of this
Costume, courtesy Jay-Thorpe, Inc.
pure-tobacco cigarette; its honey-smoothness.
Many women discover, in OLD GOLD, their favorite cigarette. Give your taste a fair chance to decide.
AMERICA’S
Srrb&^LQ^t CIGARETTE
Tune in on Ted Fio-Rito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	a	■	■	Entered as second-class
lished 26 times during the I L _ IKI fl I	matter at Notre Dame, In-,
school year at the University | ||^ | iQlIv	||£ ^JwllWlaSwIG diana* Acceptance for mail- '
of Notre Dame. Address man- .	.	tt- ±	TT. x->	. ~	,	ing at special rate of postage,
uscripts to editor, 119 Sorin DlSCC QUClSt temper VlCtuniS Vive Quasi Cras MonturilS Section 1103, October 3.1917.
Hall, Notro Dame, Ind.	FOUNDED 1865	authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns....
Mitchell C. Tackley.
—Ed itor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
Departmental Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD.______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN.....................JOHN	E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.______________.MICHAEL F. WIEDL
THOMAS J. STRITCH.___________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK----------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.-------------------------staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE / ED J. VAN HUISSELING \ NICHOLAS J. CONNOR---- CYRIL F. STROKER------
.........Sports Editors
.HOWARD T. WALDRON ..JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER___________JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST
GERALD SCHAEFER JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY------------------Graduate Manager
Netcs Staff
THOMAS G. PROCTOR ' ] JOSEPH A. BUCCI f......................  Editors
ROY O. SHOLZ______________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY----------------JOHN W. WALKER
GEORGE R. LEYES___________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY VINCENT A. GORMAN
CLIFFORD F. BROWN---------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER.------------JOHN J. MORAN
J. DICKSON MURPHY
Volume LXVII
April 20, 1934
No. 22
MONOGRAMS FOR THE MONOGRAM MEN: EXTERIOR DECORATIONS II
At a meeting held last Tuesday evening, the Notre Dame Monogram Club adopted a resolution to enforce the removal of block ND monograms from articles of clothing worn by students on the campus who have not merited a monogram in athletic competition. That resolution was in line with the current campus movement to restrict the use of the Notre Dame monogram to official monogram winners.
In adopting such a resolution, and in appointing a committee to take action upon the matter, the Monogram Club was definitely and justifiably acting within its rights. Because other abuses than the ones entailing the use of the block monogram are possibly outside the province of the club, the monogram group took no action concerning the widespread use of the various insignias, the University seal and coat of arms among them, by individuals not entitled to the provilege of such use. That limitation placed by the club on its own action, is likewise consistent with the nature and proper function of the club.
But someone should do sometthing in regard to the whole matter of jacket- and coat-decorations existing on the campus. A month ago The Scholastic pointed out that the monogram is out of place on the backs of jackets and coats; the individuals who wear it there are guilty of violations of Notre Dame tradition and University regulations. Similarly, the right to the use of the University’s official seal and coat-of-arms is not public property. Now that the monogram winners themselves have happily assumed the task of regulating the use of the block ND, it may be hoped that some other organization will take an all-inclusive action to remove all of the objectionable Notre Dame advertising from the walking bill-boards of the campus.
April 2 0, 1 9 3 4
PRIVACY FOR PRIVATE AFFAIRS
The class of ’34 would do well to register a unanimous vote of thanks with the University for the policy in force this year of reporting qualitative averages in private to the individual seniors. There was never much need of a public posting of senior grades. Certainly the praise due the leaders in the class might be considered a matter deserving public. attention, but a list of ranking with the grades omitted; serves that purpose adequately. And the taste involved in embarrassing some senior who possibly ’didn’t care much about grades, before a large group of people who did, was always questionable.
The student body of Notre Dame will have an excellent opportunity to hear an outstanding Catholic author and lecturer in Washington Hall next Tuesday evening when Mr. Shane Leslie, eminent Irish playwright, poet, and historian, will speak on “The Oxford Movement.” Such opportunities as this come seldom enough; they should not be overlooked by the students.
Now that the official announcement of the opening of the lake swimming season has been made, swimmers would do well to remember that the only student drownings in St. Joseph Lake in many years .occurred, during non-sanctioned hours when no life guard .was on duty. Students will do well to observe the swimming regulations. ■	. .... . .
The campus 'handshakers are in shape again. The spring elections are near at hand!, it.is usually a good plan to consider the candidates’ qualifications for the offices they seek as being at least as important as their ability to get votes.	.
• . » . ■ . . .
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Shane Leslie
Shane Leslie, whom you will hear Tuesday night if you are wise, has a blood tie with this country. His mother was an American, a Vermonter. Leslie himself, a thoroughgrained Irishman, must have absorbed the point of view of most of the English - speaking peoples. He was educated at Eton and Cambridge, for the English; his mother gave him the American; and he comes naturally by the Irish. Few people have chances so excellent for thorough education and thorough culture.
He is a member of that distinguished group which has sought to bring back Gaelic culture and the Gaelic language into Ireland. His work with some of the old Irish literature has been artistic in nature and delightful in result. Nor has he confined himself to literature. His work on the Oxford Movement, on which he will speak to us, has shown that he can be scholarly as well as artistic.
Mr. Leslie’s visit is a curious complement to that of Dr. John A. Ryan on Saturday evening. They both represent a Catholic point of view’ from entirely opposite approaches. It is a nice question as to which of these types has done and can do more for the modern Church, and one which we will not attempt to answer.
•
Neto Deal
The regrettable state of affairs in the cafeteria has at last been decently resolved. For the last few weeks, due to one thing and another, they were badly off for glasses. Not a man among us but was ashamed to see the shabby shrift they were making, with orange-juice glasses at the drinking fountain, and tall, insecure glasses with the milk. Nobody said anything, of course, but we felt badly about it all the same. Who knew but that dread day was not far off when the old order should rock on its heels and they no longer led off the bill of fare with “Roast Prime Ribs of Beef 30”?
But they snapped out of it with some elegant new glasses, of which they have plenty. The new ware is simple and plain, but serviceable, and no doubt will do for many generations to come. Things are blooming again; the cafeteria is on the up-and-up.
The new Sevres is practically unbreakable, by the way. We tried one of them on the floor.
Faculty Stunts
One of the better items of the past w’eek concerns the Lay Faculty party, at which they had a magician to entertain the pedagogues, with Mr. Henry Staunton acting as stooge! As if a magician could teach those people any tricks.
Our Feathered Friends
Every time spring comes up the land, writh Father O’Donnell’s poetic contradiction of Algernon Swinburne in mind, we take a particular interest in the birds. This year’s crew, except for an enormously fat and rather officious robin hasn’t caught us much; though in general you will find Notre Dame birds not quite like those any place else. We have some nice families nesting in the arms of the outdoor stations over on the west end of St. Joseph’s Lake — a nice compliment, we think, but hardly the place for close observation. There was a time when we had a nest right outside our window’, and there we noticed something we’d not known before. When the mothei' was hatching out the eggs, now and then she’d want to pop off some place for a while, and during such times she would persuade papa to brood o’er the eggs. Father didn’t like the idea at all; he would ruffle his feathers and fuss around quite a bit, but in the end he did it.
Which brings us around to the canary Dillon’s industrious pet-seekers have acquired.
Registration at Terce
From all we hear the new system of registration did not stand up so well under the strain. Certainly it created a deal of furore. We are assured that some of the blither Morrissey spirits arose at 4:30 in order to be first in line, and that the same spirit held good for members of the other classes. The offices are supposed to have looked more like the box-office at a World’s Series than the sacred repositories of our sacred grades. First come, first serve—to the bleacherites.
No Soul
Father Rational Ward and some of the boys were going through a copy of the “Dictionary of Philosophical Terms” the Department got out some years ago when somehow the occasion came up to look up the word “soul.” Imagine the good Catholic chagrin when they discovered that “soul” had been omitted!
Boyle Is Winner Of 17 Breen Speech Medal
James A. Boyle, freshman law student, orator of the class of 1933 and popular membei* of the University Theatre, won the Breen Medal Oratorical Contest last Wednesday night
James A. Boyle A medal for him.
in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. Boyle’s rather unusual oration topic, “An Answer to John Gavin” was very well presented, in the opinion of the judges. This was Boyle’s fifth try for the Breen Medal.
Four other orators survived the eliminations Monday afternoon and evening to enter the final contest. These were Hugh Fitzgerald who spoke on “Lawlessness,” Richard Mc-Monagle, whose subject was “Armaments and Isolation,” John Locher, and John Logan, whose respective subjects were “Rehabilitation of the Indian” and “The Child Labor Problem.” Professor W. J. Coyne, one of the three judges of the orations said that he believed this to be an excellent and very close contest.
Defends Irish Fight For Liberty
Boyle attacked vigorously the charge made some time ago in the Forum Magazine by a certain John Gavin that “The Irish were varlets who cared • nothing for liberty.” Boyle, with concrete examples of the great struggle for Irish liberty made by such Irish orators as Daniel O'Connell, Kern, Tone, Robert Emmett, Grattan, and others, and by such military leaders as Thomas Maher, famous as the man whose Irish brigade struggled so valiantly against the Confederate works at Fredericksburg, maintained that liberty was an inherent principle in the Irish as a race. “United with religion, liberty for the Irish will lead them to great heights in the future,” said Boyle.
Other judges of the contest were Professors Stephen Ronay and William Farrell.
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, April 20
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria offices; editorial, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7 p.m.; Opening Meeting of Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists, Main Building, 5:30 p.m.; Dinner, University Faculty Dining Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, April 21
Meeting: Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists, 9:00 a.m., Law Building; Address, Rev. John A. Ryan, 11:00 a.m.; Address, Rev. John A. Ryan, for students, Washington Hall, 1:30 p.m.
Sunday, April 22
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m.; for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s., 7:30 p.m.
Monday, April 23
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Music recital by Professors Seidel and Groom, Washington Hall, 8 p.m.; Senior Election Primary, • Gymnasium, 12:30 p.m.
Tuesday, April 24
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal at Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; St. Vincent de Paul Society meeting, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m.; Lecture, by Shane Leslie, noted Catholic author and lecturer, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Meetings: Wranglers, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.; Commerce Forum, Law Building, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, April 25
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; meeting, German Club, Carroll Rec., 7:45; Junior Election primary, Gymnasium, 12:30 p.m.
Notice
There is to be a meeting of the Rochester Club, Wednesday evening, April 25, at 6:45 in Brownson Rec at which the annual election of officers is to take place. All members are urged to attend.
Swimming Notice
The swimming season in St. Joseph Lake has been declared open. Swimming will be permitted off the Boathouse pier from 1:00 to 5:30 p.m. everyday with an additional period from 9:00 a.m. to noon on Sundays. A lifeguard will be on duty at those hours. ’ Students are requested not to use the Novitiate pier. All swimmers will be required to wear trunks.
Indiana Economists, Sociologists Convene at N. D. This Weekend
Editorships----
The Faculty Board of Publications will receive applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of the following publications for the scholastic year 1934-35: The Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and Scrip.
Applicants must state in writing their qualifications, experience, academic rating, and qualitative average. Letters should be addressed and mailed to the Chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Rev. L. Broughal, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than 4 o’clock in the afternoon of April 27.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
‘Scholastic’ Adds 11 Men To News and Sports Staffs
Eleven students were added to the news and sports staffs of The Scholastic this week, five to the sports, and six to the news department.
The new news staff members are Vincent Gorman, Clifford Brown, Irwin Goldman, Charles Landmesser, John Moran, and J. Dickson Murphy.
The new sports staff members are James A. Waldron, John L. Glanzner, Joseph P. Prendergast, Gerard Schaefer, and James McMullen.
Sympathy
The Scholastic expresses the sincerest and deepest sympathy of the members of the senior class to James V. Moscow, class president, upon the death of his father last evening.
CONTENTS
N e w s
Baseball ...................... 11
Basketball Captain ............ 10
Bookmen ........................ 9
Detroit Golf .................. 12
Economics Meet ................. 3
Elections ...................... 2
Fr. Bolger...................... 7
“Gold in the Hills” ............ 6
“Juggler” ...................... 4
Kansas Relays ................. 10
Lawyers’ Ball .................. 5
“Music’s The Thing” ............ 5
Pharmacy Trip .................. 9
Recital ........................ 7
Senior Ball .................... 4
Summer Session ................. 8
Tennis Opener ................. 12
FR. J. RYAN TO SPEAK
The Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists bringing together the outstanding sociologists and economists of the state of Indiana will convene here today for its annual
Rev. John A. Ryan
Visits campus again.
meeting. Problems in the sociological and economic field will be discussed by the representatives of various Indiana colleges.
The schedule for today includes a tour of the campus and a visit to the Art Gallery followed by a dinner at the University Faculty Dining Room at which Lester M. Jones, of DePauw University the president of the association will be toastmaster.
The Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame will deliver the address of welcome at the dinner.
Tomorrow, April 21, in the auditorium of the Law Building, Mark C. Mills of Indiana University, presiding, reports on special projects will be given. “Probation—An Individualized Form of Social Control,” will be the topic of an address by Maurice L. Pettit, University of Notre Dame.
The highlights of the meeting will be the address Saturday morning by the Right Rev. John A. Ryan, Catholic University. He will speak on “Economic Opinion and the Industrial Recovery Act.” Father Ryan is recognized as the outstanding authority on Distributive Justice, a subject which falls under the sociological scope.
C. B. Camp of Butler University will lead a symposium on Managed Currency in which Joseph L. Apodaca of the University of Notre Dame will present a paper on “The Managed (Continued on Page 5)
April 20, 1934
T hr e e
Harry Sosnik’s Orchestra to Play At Senior Ball; Price Set at $8.25
“Juggler” To Present Esquire Number Soon
TEA DANCE ON SATURDAY
Harry Sosnik and his orchestra have been definitely selected by Chairman Russell J. Leonard as the band for the Notre Dame senior ball of 1934. The dance will be held in South Bend at the Palais Royale on the evening of May 11. The price of the tickets has been set, at $8.25. '
Harry Sosnik and his orchestra are now playing at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, and are featured regularly on the Swift radio program with Olsen and Johnson over the C6-lumbia Broadcasting System. They have also been featured at the Bismarck Hotel, Chicago, and for sixty weeks on the Pennzoil program over WBBM.	r
Tea Dance At Chain-o-Lakes
The tea dance, held each year in conjunction with the senior ball, will be held at the Chain-O-Lakes Country Club, eight miles west of South Bend, Saturday, May 12, from 4 to 7 o’clock in the afternoon. No orchestra has as yet been selected for the dance.
The admission price of $8.25 a couple includes both the ball proper and the tea dance. It is the lowest price for ball tickets in some time at Notre Dame. Last year the tickets • were $8.50 a couple.
Unusually attractive favors are being planned by Chairman Leonard and the committee on favors, the nature of which will be announced at an early date.
Tickets will go on sale Thursday, May 3, under the direction of ticket chairman Edward J. O’Brien.
Wrangler Applications To Close At Noon Tomorrow
“Applications for membership into the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, will be accepted until Saturday noon, April 21st,” says Thomas Proctor, chairman of the membership committee. In order to be eligible for membership a student must be in good standing with the University and must have participated in some forensic activity on the campus.
At the regular Tuesday night meeting of the group the chairman appointed Justin Hannen, Franklyn Hochreiter, and John Hayes to serve on the membership committee. New members will be taken in as soon as they have completed the requirements of the society for entrance.
Proctor will speak at the next meeting of the club.
Four
Tickets —
The Faculty Dance Committee at a recent meeting passed a new regulation concerning the sale of tickets to all “class dances.” In the future the ticket sale will be confined to three days and at a specified place. Therefore, the sale of tickets for the Senior Ball of 1934 will be on May 3 and 4, respectively, and the place, the conference room in the central office of the Main Building. The hours of the sale have been announced by the ticket committee of the Senior Ball as follows:
Thursday, May 3, 2:00 to 5:00 o’clock, afternoon.
Friday, May 4, 2:00 to 5:00 o’clock, afternoon.
Saturday, May 5, 9:00 to 12:00 o’clock, morning.
Rhode Island Club Holds .First Communion Breakfast x	i
/ m --------------- \
The Rhode Island Club of Notre \ Dame led the way in a new state \ club activity. Last Sunday, at the 8 o’clock Mass, the 15 members of the club approached the altar for Holy Communion.
Following Mass a Communion Breakfast was held in the faculty dining-hall. The honored guests and speakers were Father Brennan of the Philosophy Department and Mr. Robert Riordon, Registrar of the University. Other invitations were accepted by Frank McGahren, president of St. Vincent de Paul Society and Harold Noonan of the Boston Club. Father Brennan complimented the club in a talk, “Psychology of Good Example.” Mr. Riordan told of “Great Rhode Islanders I Have Known.”
The committee in charge was composed of Tom Murphy, George Grimes and Henry McConnell.
Symphony Plays at St. Mary’s
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, will present a concert for the students of St. Mary’s College, Monday, April 30, at St. Angela’s hall. The concert, an annual affair, has been arranged by St. Mary’s officials in cooperation with Director Seidel.
The orchestra, with its personnel of 35 members, is continuing its biweekly rehearsals in preparation for the last concert of the school year to be given in May.
Appearing in the form of a parody on Esquire, that well known magazine for men, the semi-final issue of the Juggler will be available for purchase early next week. As in the past the staff have put forth their best efforts and succeeded in producing an excellent edition.
Cover By Doyle
Art editor Gerry Doyle once more contributes the cover which is done in light colors on a white background, thus in keeping with the spring season. Throughout the magazine Dick Prezebel lends his pen to aid in the illustration of the various contributions. Prez also does the caricatures for the key-hole portraits.
The section devoted to the take-off on Esquire is principally the work of Healy, Craine, and Burchell. One of the outstanding sketches contained in this part of the Juggler is Craine’s story entitled “In the Blah,” a parody on “In the Bois” by Fairbanks, Jr. A freshman by the name of Finn comes to the fore in this issue with some good poetry.
Columnists Busy
The columnists continue to provide some interesting material as a result of the special opportunities afforded them by the lately begun social whirl. Rudy Cmkovic in his “Rhythm Beats” puts out the low down on the bands which are to play at the local recreational center in the near future.
All in all the spring number continues to maintain the prestige established by the first issue appearing long ago last fall under the capable hand of the editor.
New Superintendent Of Buildings Appointed Here
Mr. Patrick J. McGuiness, Chicago, has been appointed to fill the newly created position of Superintendent of buildings. He comes to this position after a long experience at the Hotel Sherman, Midwest Club, Sheridan Plaza and other hotels in Chicago.
Freshman Preregistration
The preregistration of present freshmen for September, 1934, will begin at the Secretary’s office 1:00 p. m. Monday, April 23. Freshmen are requested not to congregate in the General Offices until after the noon meal on Monday. Preregistration on the following days will begin at 8:30 a. m.
The Scholastic
Sweet, Hot Tunes In ‘Music’s The Thing’
Music in all its form is the keynote to the Linnet show, “Music’s The Thing.” Swaying melodies, tuneful ballads, and excellent instrumentation will bring to life the age old saying, “When it’s Spring, a young man’s fancy turns to love.” Such will be the atmosphere created by the Linnets in Washington Hall, April 29, 30, and May 1.
The Linnet orchestra of some fourteen pieces will play for the revue. They will be directed by Al Stewart, known about the campus for his musical ability. The other members of the orchestra will be Tom Bott and Jim Keough, pianos; William Ellis, Raymond Marre, trumpets; Charles Morris, Thomas Carroll, John Mc-Auliif, saxophones; Joseph Petritz, John McNeill, Robert Klaiber, violins; Frank Joyce, string bass; Robert Gibbs, guitar; and Robert Le-Mire, drams; Ten-ill Austin, trombone.	t
Especially amusing will be the act known as the Fu Manchu Skit, in which the musical selection, “Mr. Magician” will be featured. Jim Masterson, senior, and champion prestidigitator of the campus, will present an array of mystifying tricks. He will be assisted by a soloist and a chorus of tap dancers. John Dasso, director of tap dances, who scored such a hit in “Thanks For The Blow” is in charge of the routines. The whole act will be executed in a background of mystic India.
The nominal admission charge of twenty-five cents is being made for the revue. Those who attended the last presentation in December will want to see the Linnets come forth in a bigger and better show. The profits will go to the Bengal Missions. Tickets will be on sale very shortly in all the halls on the campus.
Prior to this week rehearsals were being held in parts, however, the entire production is now being woven into one unit. The Reverend Charles C. McAllister, C.S.C., head of the Linnets, is in charge of the presentation.
ECONOMICS MEET
(Continued from Page 3)
Currency Program.”
The meeting will close with a summary critique, “The Program as a Whole,” by William C. Cleveland of Indiana University, to be followed by a general discussion.
Besides the speakers mentioned, representatives from Purdue, Indiana State Teachers College, and Evansville College will take part.
' 'Professor Louis F. Buckley of Notre Dame is in charge of local arrangements.
Shane Leslie, Author, Will Speak On Oxford Movement Tuesday
Lawyers Ball —
The tickets for the Annual Lawyers’ Ball, which is to be held at the Palais Royale on April 27, are selling rapidly. The price is §2.50.
Mark Fisher and his Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra will supply the music and the entertainment.
Each member of the club is entitled to two guests.
Thomas Gately is general chairman of the 1934 Lawyers’ Ball and is in charge of all the plans and preparations for the affair. Joseph Laughlin is president of the Notre Dame Law Club which is sponsoring the dance.
McNichols Reads Paper At Economics Seminar
The problem of the Far East, “M a n c h u r i a” was discussed by Charles G. McNichols, Jr., Law 1, in a paper delivered before fellow-members of the Economics Seminar last Tuesday evening at 6:45 in the Law Building.-
Treating the geographical and historical background of the disputed territory the speaker showed the great possibility of war because of the interests of the various countries concerned, positionally and economically with Manchuria. He pointed to the vast natural wealth of this area in agriculture and in minerals as a source of the dispute.
Recent Chino-Japanese War
From the recent book, The Tinder Box by George Sakalsky, this paradoxical stateemnt was quoted: “The recent war between China and Japan was an act of peace because none of the recognized formalities of war were gone through, except the seizure of territory, the marching of troops and the killing of human beings!” and was considered by the speaker as befitting the topic.
McNichols, in conclusion, characterized the matter stating, “Like this so-called ‘war’ Manchuria presents strange, unusual aspects and well deserves for itself the title “The Craziest Problem in the World Today !”
After the customary discussion following the paper it was announced that the next meeting of the Seminar would be held on April 24, at which time Maurice Garland and Harry Black will deliver papers on Italy and Spain.
HISTORIAN, BIOGRAPHER
Shane Leslie, noted Catholic author and lecturer, will speak in Washington Hall, Tuesday night, April 24. “The Oxford Movement” is the title of the lecture to be delivered here. His book under this title appeared last year.
Mr. Leslie received his education at Eton, King’s College, University of Paris, and Cambridge. He married an American, Marjorie Ide, daughter of the Honorable H. C. Ide, former governor general of the Philippines, and U. S. minister to Spain. In 1907, a year before he became a Catholic, he visited Tolstoy in Russia. Leslie, a resident of Glaslough, Ireland, was for nine years editor of the Dublin Revieiv. He is also the author of many reviews, biographies, and dramas.
Wrote For “Ave Maria”
Of Mr. Leslie’s contributions to the Ave Maria the one on the Rheims Bible in October 1920 is of special interest to Notre Dame. The “Rheims Bible” takes its name from the fact that it was done into English in the Belgian city by some scholars exiled from England. In 1617 one Fulke brought out an edition of the Bible with the Rheims and the Old English versions in parallel columns, together with the Rheims annotations and violent “anti-popish” comments. The purpose seems to have been to circulate the Catholic Bible in this disguise among the subjects of the benign Elizabeth whose rigid laws forbade anything Catholic from entering the realm. Mr. Leslie is of the opinion that Fulke was certainly a Catholic or a Jesuit in disguise. He compares critically the Fulke edition with the Authorized or King James Version which it antedated and concludes that the compilers of the latter made liberal use of it. Mr. Leslie’s copy of the Fulke Bible is one of the treasured possessions of the University library through the courtesy of Monsignor Shannon, editor of the New World, Chicago. It is on view in the exhibition case in the library.
STAFF NOTICE
The regular meetings of the Editorial, news, and sports staffs of The Scholastic will be held this evening at 6:30 and 7:00 o’clock, in the Editorial Offices.
Candidates as well as regular staff members are requested to be present to receive assignments.
April 2 0, 19 3 4
Five
Prof. Frederick And Fr. Ward Write Book
K. of C. News
“Gold In The Hills” Pleases 3 Audiences
Good Writing, a book designed generally for use in college writing but specially for freshman courses in composition, has been written by Professor John T. Frederick and the
Prof. John T. Frederick Co-author.
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., both members of the local Department of English.
The book was accepted early this year by F. S. Crofts, and Company. New York City publishers, and will probably be published in May.
The usual elements of rhetoric and composition will be combined in the text. In addition, it will contain a handbook, or Manual of Writing, as the co-authors call it. The oustand-ing feature of Good Writing lies in its fresh treatment of the matters usually covered by the many texts on composition.
Professor Frederick, who has edited the Midland magazine for nearly 20 years, is the author of two novels and a Handbook of Short Story Writing. He has taught at Pittsburgh U., the University of Iowa, and at present teaches at Northwestern and Notre Dame.
Father Ward, a frequent contributor to the Midland and Commonweal magazines, has won considerable recognition in the short story field. During the past several years, he has had stories reprinted in the annual volumes of E. J. O’Brien’s Best Short Stories.	'
Engineer’s Ball Pleases
The Engineers’ Ball which was held last Friday evening at the Palais Royale attracted 300 couples.
Robert FitzSimon, in charge of the dance, said that the dance was a success. The dance committee plans to hold a meeting this evening.
Mickey Isley and his orchestra from the Ballyhoo Night Club in Gary furnished the music and entertainment. Many numbers were heard by the orchestra’s trio, of Eddiie Skinner, John Austey, and Ward Mackenn.	"
Six	'
Z, /
By Ray Martin
The meeting held Monday night was thoroughly a business meeting, and was conducted in such a speedy fashion that more things were covered than at any meeting this year.
Plans for the council picnic were discussed. A tentative date, May 10, Ascension Thursday, and a tentative place, Indian Lake, were discussed, and a committee appointed to find out the suitability of this site. Clarence Hellwig is chairman of the picnic committee.
The council is beginning this year an indoor baseball team. There will be practice every night at 4:15 behind Alumni Hall, probably, if enough in the council are interested to come out for an hour’s clean sport. It is possible that the council will enter one or two teams in the interhall league.
Elections from the floor were held last meeting to the nominating committee. Brothers Bocskei and Flannery were elected. Nominations for offices are now open. All nominations must be approved by the nominating committee.
Another of those fine features of Columbianism will be held soon, the Communion breakfast. It was tentatively set at the last Sunday of this month, but the matter was finally referred to a committee. Notices will be mailed as to the results of the committee’s decision on the time.
Brother Eli Abraham was elected delegate to the state convention June 4 and 5.
John Egan won the cash attendance prize of $2.00, on about the eighth drawing. And Zinn was one of those drawn and absent.
St. Vincent de Paul Society Completes Plans For Drive
At a meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul society Tuesday night in the basement of Walsh Hall minor details of the Old Clothes Drive were completed.
Placards have been placed in all the halls, and committees have been appointed to canvas these halls. The chairman of the committee is to bring the collected clothes to the basement of Walsh Hall not later than 1:30 o’clock Saturday afternoon, April 21.
Father John Kelley, C.S.C., displayed the ciborium which the society has personally donated to Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., for use in his new church in South Bend.
“Gold in the Hills,” directed by Professor Frank Kelly was greeted last Monday, and Tuesday, April 16 and 17 in Washington Hall and last night at the Palace theatre by appreciative and receptive audiences. The students showed, as they did two years ago, that they were wholeheartedly with the hero and wholeheartedly against the villain. Last night at the Palace a large audience approved and disapproved with cheers and hisses the actions of Richard Murtagroyd and Jack Dalton.
Eugene Blish as the villain gave an excellent performance. His mannerisms and facial expressions fitted in perfectly with his dastardly antics. As Jack Dalton, the hero, John Henry was the essence of true manhood. His undaunting spirit caused much applause as he went about freeing his only love from the conniving Murgatroyd.
Boyle Makes Hit
Miss Irene Pyle as Nell Stanley •capably portrayed the sweet, innocent farmer’s daughter. As Lizzie Jones the fidgety housekeeper, Miss Helen Peterson received well-deserved applause.
The remainder of the Stanley family, Robert Ward as the honest farmer, and Miss Charlotte Mourer, as Nell’s younger sister, were well pictured. Jim Boyle, as Big Mike Slattery, the bartender was all one would want for a true Bowery saloonkeeper.
The supporting members of the cast as Bowery folk and New York sightseers contributed much to revive the spirit of the nineties. The accompanying music of the Collegians enhanced the East Side atmosphere.
A Bowery saloon was well depicted in the second act. The costumes, dances, setting and music, made up a typical rendezvous of the people of suds-over-the-bar days.
R. O. T. C. Backers Plan Survey Of Student Body
Although no R. O. T. C. unit will be formed this year, members of the Military Club and others are showing much interest in the formation of such an organization, and it is hoped that sometime in the near future, perhaps next school year, such a unit will be instituted on the campus.
To obtain student opinion upon the plan, a petition survey of all students will probably be begun next week or soon after. By this organizers wish to ascertain the number of students who desire to have an R. O. T. C. exist here on the campus.
The Scholastic
4
5
Fr. Bolger Named On Regional Labor Board
News of the Week
By George Leyes
Music Professors To Give Concert Here
The appointment of the Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of economics at the , University, to the Regional Labor Board for Chicago was made known yesterday.
The appointment of Father Bolger was made by President F. D. Roosevelt. Father Bolger announced his acceptance after notification of the appointment reached him in the following wire from Robert F. Wagner, chairman of the National Labor Board:
“By the direction of the President you have been appointed on the Regional Labor Board for Chicago as one of the members representing labor in the mediation of labor controversies in your area. Acceptance and service will constitute a most substantial contribution of the highest patriotism to the solution of the present industrial unrest. Please advise acceptance by wire.”
S.A.C. Swim Meet Draws 60 Entries; Records Fall
Probably the most successful swimming meet held here recently, was held Wednesday evening under the direction of the Students Activities Council.
Sixty contestants in nine events shattered several records.
The summaries:
49 YD. FREE STYLE—Won by E. Butler: F. Huiskinpr, second; J. Burk, third. Time, :20.7.
40 YD. BACK STROKE—Won by Cissne; J. Scannell, second; E. Huiskinjr, third. Time, :25.8.
PLUNGE—Won by Burns; P. Doyle, second ; Lawler, third. Distance. 52 feet.
60 YD. BREAST—Won by P. Doyle: B. Farrei, second: W. McDonough, third. Time, :42.
' 100 YD. FREE STYLE—Won by F. Huis-king; F. Kelly, second; J. Burchill, third. Time, 1:02.
120 YD. MEDLEY RELAY—Won by E. Butler, P. Doyle, J. Glanzner. Time, 1:15.6.
160 YD FREE STYLE RELAY—Won by E. Butler, B. Murphy, F. Kelly, J. Williams. Time, 1:27.8.
HIGH BD. DIVING—Won by E. Butler: J. McGurl, second: P. Quigley, third. 74.3 pts.
LOW BD. DIVING—Won by. P. Quigley; J. McGurl, second: F. Huisking, third. 62.4 points-.
The Bookmen are now receiving applications for new members. Those interested in and having some knowledge of contemporary literature are requested to leave their names with Ed Murphy, 207 Sorin Hall, or Carl Link, 51 Sorin.
Mr. Insull, the modern “Homeric wanderer,” after evading fraud charges for 18 months, seems to have reached the end of his struggle for freedom and is probably thinking that the world is very small as he returns to this country a prisoner. By refusing-to stand trial in the vicinage of his former triumphs, he has been built up as a symbol of the wealth and power of the utilities and the losses of investors. It is possible that if Mr. Insull had stayed at home and seen things through, he would have suffered much less than he already has.
Huey Long added a little color and almost a fight to the hearing of the Senate Finance committee with his sizzling repartee, centering around the appointment of Daniel D. Moore as Collector of Internal Revenue for the State of Louisiana. The melodrama and comedy of Huey’s rant-ings on race horses and insane asylums provided gales of laughter for the mass of spectators who always enjoy a free theatrical- show, but it destroyed what little respect the Kingfish still might have held in the Senate.
Dr. Wirt of Gary had his dav in Washington before the House Committee, but failed to produce any specific evidence that a group of new fangled thinkers were dominating New Deal legislation, or that Mr. Roosevelt is merely putty in the hands of radicals who intend to lead him on to a more and more extreme change in our system of government.
The educator’s plea for light and truth about governmental policies was justified, since no one can deny him that privilege. The people are entitled to know whether or not they are being secretly deprived of their constitutional rights by the cleverly worded phrases written into the legislation by a few political overlords or brain trusters.
Instead of a revolution, there may be more possibility of a counter-revolution. As the country continues to climb out of the depression, there seems to be a reaction toward the right. Already the first revolutionary act of Mr. Roosevelts’ — the cutting down of payments to war veterans— has been restored after 12 months. The Fletcher-Rayburn stock exchange regulation bill, the Wagner Labor bill, the Securities Act and the Tugwell food and drug bill also seem to have been watered down by strong lobbies and a wave of counter-reform.
A very ambitious list of music has been chosen by Professors Seidel and Groom for their Washington Hall concert Monday, April 23, at 8 p. m.
The program will include Brahms’s A Major sonata for violin and piano, an exciting and difficult adventure in ensemble craftsmanship. Following that, Mr. Groom will touch off Mias-kovsky’s relatively unfamiliar “Reminiscences,” as well as Brahms’ glowing “Rhapsody in G Minor,” and Gossens’ “Northland.”
Violin Solos
Mr. Seidel will match the mood of the recital with his solo violin contributions. There will be a subdued “Romance” by Ries, a bouncing Mozart rondo arranged by Kreisler, Czerwonky’s waggish and colorful “Harlequin,” and an “Air Varie” by Vieuxtemps, whose impossible cadenzas have been black death to most violinists since 1870. The evening will close with the allegro from Grieg’s sonata in G major.
Harvard Business School Offers Scholarship of $300
A $300.00 scholarship to the Harvard School of Business Administration is being offered to graduates of Indiana colleges by the Harvard Business School Club of • Indianapolis, the, award to be made on the basis of need of financial assistance, scholarship, and character. The offer was made known to officials at Notre Dame in a letter of April 9 from R. F. Mead, Chairman of the Scholarship Committee of the Indianapolis Harvard Business School Club. This is the only scholarship of its kind offered in Indiana. Applications, which may be made through the University, or by writing directly to R. F. Mead, Mead-Balch Construction Company, 26 S. Reichwein Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, must be made by May 15, 1934.
Opportunity For N. D. Man
Expenses at the Harvard Business School for one year are about $1,200, including expenses; and it is possible for the student who obtains this scholarship, and who has a good scholastic standing at mid-year, to borrow from the student loan fund the sum of $300.00; and in his second year he may borrow up to $600.00. This scholarship offers to some outstanding man from Notre Dame an opportunity to do graduate work in accounting, management, statistics, and many other business and economic subjects. Ninety-two percent of the school’s graduates in 1933 had positions by January, 1934.
April 2 0, 1934
Seven
Monogram Show Is Set for May 17,18,20
In spite of the weather and outdoor activities of spring, there is a group of campus athletes who remain closely indoors, and bend themselves to their work. They are the rehearsing stars of the coming Monogram Absurdities, the annual campus stage presentation of the Notre Dame Monogram Club.
Tom Roach, President of the Monogram Club, has announced that castings have almost been completed and rehearsals are being held daily. The show is to be presented about the middle of May. The tentative dates of May 17, 18, and 20 have been set, subject to revision is a conflict with the spring athletic program intervenes.
The great majority of the work connected with the production of the Absurdities is assumed by the members of the Monogram Club. Clay Johnson is general chairman in charge of the production with Vince Fagan as manager and stage director. But special mention is to be given to Professor Joseph Casasanta, who has generously given his help to the arrangement of the music for the show. Others who are contributing their assistance are Joe Boland, Chet Grant, Joe Degnan, John Sharpe, and a group of campus literary luminaries who are working on the script of the show.
Great • activity will be seen in the month to come. And the result will be well worth the work. In keeping with past years, the Absurdities is sure to be one of the outstanding histrionic presentations of the year.
The general theme of the show is to be a presentation of the life at Notre Dame, past and present. Further than this, the Monogram men refuse, to be committed.
Maffei Elected Head of The Metropolitan Club
Andrew Maffei, of Yonkers, N. Y., defeated James Shields, New Rochelle, by a close margin for the presidency of the Metropolitan Club of New York City at the elections held Wednesday evening, April 18, in Brownson Rec. Aprroximately 130 votes were cast.
In the vice-presidential race, Joseph A. Bittner, of Hollis, N. Y., won out over William Murtha. The rest of the offices were filled as follows: . Jack Edwards, Yonkers, N.Y., secretary; Raymond Neary, New York City, treasurer; William Schmidt, Jackson Heights, L.I., senior trustee; Dan Hanrahan, Hollis, N.Y., junior trustee; William McNally, Welfare Island, N. Y., sophomore trustee.
Masty, John Alonzo Masterson, the Alexander king, the best mimic on ' campus, the creator of the famous
Eliot stories and the most irksome of the debunkers is really a child of misf o r t u n e. Last December some rat stole his blazing-bright black bicycle; brand new it was and the pride of the Finchleys. Then came the sad ping pong episode. Everyone knows Masty is really the champion — except sore-head Shiels. But the champ
sprained his wrist playing squash— “aqd you can’t win the championship with a broken wrist, can you?” Ask Coach Nicholson about Masty’s high-jumping. Never was a team more
discouraged than the day a touch of La grippe ended Masty’s Notre Dame track career. He was going places— five feet seven in two weeks. No telling where he would have stopped.
Nine Movies In Weekend
It was the same last year. He had every part in Richelieu memorized— in fact he was told, several times and sincerely that he was going to be “dressed up.” Nothing happened though — some other fellow got the part. His dream of becoming a great chemist was shattered like a thousand Thisle tubes in his very first year when Masty had to leave alchemy— nasal trouble resulted from long and tedious hours in the laboratory. It was then that he set his famous record of nine movies over the week-end, not including the campus show.
Father John A. Ryan To Address Student Body Sat.
Reverend John A. Ryan, Professor of Economics and Sociology at Catholic University, Washington, D. C., will give a talk on “Economic Opinion and the Industrial Recovery Act,” Saturday afternoon at 1:30 in Washington Hall.
All students in Economics and Philosophy are required to attend, while all students in the University are invited.
First Voting Begins Monday at Primaries
Handshaking, feverish vote getting, talk of committees, etc. will feature the week-end as campus politicians make last minute preparation for the class elections. The Junior primary will be held Monday, April 23. The following day the Sophomores will meet to nominate candidates, while the Freshman primary is slated for Wednesday, the 25th. The primaries will be held at 12:30 in the gym and the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes will enter the finals. Any candidate receiving a two-thirds majority in the primaries will be elected without further vote. The finals will be held Tuesday, May 1, in the basement of the dining hall and will last all day.
The Juniors will nominate their representatives to the S. \.C. according to colleges. Those in the Arts and Letters College will vote only for the candidates from the A.B. school, the Engineers, only for the candidates from the Engineering school, etc. The primaries will be held on Thursday, April 26, at 12:30. The College of Science will meet in Science Hall, Arts and Letters in the Main Building, Commerce in the Commerce Building, and the College of Engineering in the Engineering Building. The S.A.C. will designate the specific rooms in a bulletin to be issued shortly. The two candidates from each college receiving the highest number of votes will go on to the finals on Tuesday, May 1.
Juniors Get Two Ballots
In the finals each junior will be given two ballots. The first ballot will contain the names of the candidates for the four class offices, while the second will contain the names of the two men running for S.A.C. representative from his particular college.
Off-Campus students will meet at 3:15 on Thursday, April 26, in room 1 of the Law Building to elect their S.A.C. representative. The Law School will elect its representative to the S.A.C. at a meeting of the Law Club, May 1.
Bulletins giving particulars in regard to the elections and designating the rooms where the various colleges will meet for the nomination of Junior S.A.C. candidates will be posted in a few days.
As in former years, the candidate for class office must have a good disciplinary record and a good scrolastic standing. This means that even one scholastic deficiency is sufficient to bar a candidate from running for office. No Monogram athlete may be a candidate for representation in the S.A.C.
Eight
The Scholastic
Phillips Added To
Cracow Club Name
At the last meeting of the Cracow Club, a week ago last Monday, it was decided to honor Professor Charles Phillips, and his name was added to the name of the organization, because he had originally given it its old name. The name of the group now is the “Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club.”
The constitution of the organization was amended as follows: “In due recognition of the great service rendered and the interest and love that the late Professor Phillips, a man of Irish descent, has shown in Poland, in Americans of Polish descent, and particularly in the organizing of a Polish student organization at the University of Notre Dame, we deem it proper to rename the organization in his memory and to make the study and appreciation of his literary works one of the aims of this Club.” The vote on this was, of course, unanimous.
A letter from Mr. Phillips’ brother to Pres. Korzeneski of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club was read at the meeting which was a special one, called for the sole purpose of having the letter read. The following quote is significant of his interest in the Club and in Notre Dame:
“Your club has shown a great love and appreciation of Professor Phillips. The family, I assure you, does highly appreciate this, and we hold a sincere love for you all because of this.
We hope we may be privileged to keep contact with your club as we wish to do always with .the University. Thanking you for your thoughts and actions for our own dear brother, I am
Yours sincerely, Frank T. Phillips.”
Italian Club
A meeting of the Italian Club was held Wednesday night, April 18, in Carroll Rec Hall.
Professor James A Reyniers lecturing on Leonardo da Vinci, was the principal speaker of the evening.
A banquet will be held by the club on May 3 in the Faculty Dining Hall. Professor Clarence A. Manion of the Law School will act as toastmaster.
German Club
A meeting of the German Club is to be held Wednesday, April 25 in Carroll Rec Hall.
Plans for the banquet and other matters of importance to the club will be discussed.
Because of the importance of this meeting, President Nachtwey requests as many members as possible to be present. ■
April 2 0, 19 3 i
Pharmacy Club Visits Lilly Plant At Indianapolis
Thirty students and two members of the faculty went to Indianapolis Monday on the trip sponsored by the Pharmacy Club to visit the Eli Lilly laboratories and manufacturing plant. The group returned to South Bend late Tuesday night. While in Indianapolis, the party was the guests of Lilly’s, and stayed at the Hotel Severin.
Upon arriving in Indianapolis, the group was taken to the hotel where they had lunch, and then went to the pharmaceutical manufacturing unit where they were addressed by J. K. Lilly, Jr., Vice-president of the firm. The remainder of the afternoon was spent in an inspection tour of the plant. Trained guides escorted the visitors through the various departments. Some of the more modern medicinal substances seen in the making were: Insulin, Sodium amytal, Liver extract, and Merthiolate.
Banquet Given Monday
Monday night, a banquet was given on the roof of the hotel. Several representatives of Lillys addressed the assemblage on the history of the company and the future of pharmacy and medicine. Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, and Dr. L. H. Bal-dinger, head of the Department of Pharmacy, also spoke, expressing their appreciation to the Eli Lilly Company for having made the trip possible. After the banquet, the entertainment provided by the company consisted of a movie.
Tuesday morning, after breakfast in the hotel, the visitors were taken in special busses to the biological farm at Greenfield, Indiana. There, while guides explained the methods used in making biologicals, the group was shown through several laboratories. The complete procedure, from quarantining the animals to standardization of the finished vaccines, toxins, and antitoxins, was witnessed. On the route back to the hotel from the farms, the party stopped at Page’s Country Home for lunch where the official itinerary ended.
Father O’Hara Speaks In Chicago On U. N. D. Night
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University, sounded the keynote of the Universal Notre Dame night in his speech to the Chicago Alumni Monday night. Speaking on the true principle, the Catholic principle, of education he said: “I like the name ‘Universal Notre Dame Night.’ The word universal means Catholic, and I like to
Bookmen Hear Prof.
Smithberger In Talk
Professor Andrew T. Smithberger addressed the Bookmen last Monday night on the youth of great figures in English and American literature when they begin their literary careers.
Prof. Andrew Smithberger Urges preservation of “duties”
Starting out with John Lyly as an example, he traced, in chronological order, the names of literary giants who have produced their best work, or at least made a significant start on the path of fame before they were thirty. “In fact,” ’ Mr. Smithberger pointed out, “it is the exception rather than the rule for men to achieve fame if they postpone' writing until their middle or old age.”
Cites Chatterton, Benet
Every now and then some genius emerges who is worthy of amazement because of his precocity. This is the case of Thomas Chatterton and Stephen ■ Vincent Benet. These two had published significant work while in their middle teens. Another point in Mr. Smithberger’s talk was that there are very few if any titans of literature who did not write some poetry.
In conclusion the speaker urged the Bookmen' to prepare all their writings, especially “duties” in duplicate form so that they could preserve a copy for themselves. He told them that the cost of binding such work is very small and that they might leave a copy in the library or in a similar place for safe keeping and reference.
reflect that the school we all love is Catholic, in every sense of the word —as universal in its love of truth, in its search for knowledge, in its embellishment of learning and its appeal to men of all classes, as is the church from which it derives its principles of education.”
Nine
ATHLETICS
Notre Dame Trackmen to Compete In Twelfth Kansas Meet Saturday
John Jordan Elected Captain Of Cagers
SHUTTLE TEAM IS TO RUN
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The Notre Dame outdoor track campaign will open tomorrow when a limited number of the Irish runners appear in the twelfth annual Kansas Relays at Lawrence, Kansas.
Vince Murphy
In first outdoor jump.
Coach Nicholson will enter only five men in the festivities tomorrow7; a shuttle hurdle relay team and Vince Murphy, in the high jump. The relay crew will be composed of George Meagher, Carl Link, Jimmie Fagan, and Mike Layden. Meagher will also be entered in the broad jump.
Nick Juggles Mile Team
Nick is not entering either his one, two, or four mile relay quartets. The Irish coach has been juggling the eight furlong crew since their poor showing in the Butler Relays and has not found a satisfactory combination as yet. The two mile crew has not shown enough speed to warrant their making the trip. Nick also believes the competition in the Kansas Relays will be too keen to allow his stick handlers to do much.
The four mile quartet was definitely set to go but the iniury to Captain Joe Young’s leg has made it necessary to leave this group behind also. Young pulled a tendon two weeks ago and, although the injury (Continued on Page 14)
T«n
Sport Week ---
Friday, April 20
Tennis—Northwestern vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., University courts.
Saturday, April 21
Baseball — Chicago vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p. m., Chicago, Illinois.
Tennis—Western State College vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Track—Notre Dame competes in Kansas Relays, 1:30 p.m., Lawrence, Kansas.
Sunday, April 22
Baseball—Interhall league games, 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.
Golf — Interhall golf qualifying rounds—9:00 a.m., University Golf Course: Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard.
Monday, April 23
Baseball—Northwestern vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Golf—Interhall match play begins, 3:00 p.m., University Golf Course.
Tuesday, April 24
Baseball — Interhall softball games, 3:30 p.m.
Thursday, April 26
Baseball — Interhall softball games, 3:30 p.m.
Friday, April 27
Baseball—Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Lafayette, Indiana.
Tennis—Armour Tech vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p.m., University courts.
Saturday, April 28
Baseball—Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Lafayette, Indiana.
Golf — Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., University Golf Course.
LaRaza Soccer Team Ties The South Bend Bluejays
The spring soccer season opened at Notre Dame Sunday when La Raza played the South Bend Bluejays to a 2-2 tie on a field of mud.
La Raza scored first when Busque-ta booted the ball between the uprights on a pass from Brias. The Bluejays forged ahead in the second period two goals to one, but La Raza tied the score when Hoyos made a corner kick on a pass from Busqueta.
La Raza lineup: Benavides, Valdes, Creel, Bonet, Yriberry, de Landero, Busqueta, Hoyos, Gomez, Brias, Roces.
John Joseph Jordan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and a two year monogram winner, was elected captain of the Notre Dame
Johnny Jordan
Chicago’s Third Cage Leader.
basketball team for 1934-’35 at the annual banquet given to the cage squad Monday night. Monograms w'ere awarded to ten players.
Jordan, wTho lives in Chicago, succeeds two fellow7 townsmen to the cage captaincy. Ed Krause, retiring leader, is also a Chicago native as was Johnny Baldwin captain of the 1932-’33 team.
Three Win Third Letter
Three of the letter winners had previously won two letters in basketball. In addition to Krause, Joe Voegele, high scoring forward and Leo Crowe, stocky guard, earned their third awards. Jordan and Bill Newbold, reserve guard, were awarded their second monograms.
Marty Peters, Joe O’Karie, Johnny Ford, Don Allen and George Ireland, the remaining five monogram men, were awarded letters for the first time.
Four of the monogram winners, Krause, Voegele, Crowe and New-bold, will be graduated in June.
The new Irish cage leader has been one of the most reliable players on the Notre Dame squad for the past two seasons in which the Keoganites won 46 out of 56 games and established ’ a new Notre Dame winning streak of 22 games.
The Scholastic

Irish Gridders Try
Out Latest Pigskin
The Notre Dame football squad used the new 1934 ball for the first time this week. The ball, designed to aid passing attacks, proved to be easier to throw and catch than the old ball. Punters, however, found that it cut down the yardage of their kicks and had a tendency to bounce to the side when it struck the ground.
The drills on passing offense and defense continued during the first part of the week. Pass scrimmages were held on Monday and Tuesday, and scrimmages, in which most of the plays called for passes, were run off on Wednesday and Thursday. A practice game between two picked squads may be played on Saturday.
Coach Layden intends to take up the greater part of next week with an extensive blocking drill. The Irish coach wishes to get this part of spring practice entirely finished before the warm weather sets in.
According to present plans the annual game between the Varsity and the Old-Timers will be played in the stadium next Sunday. The Old-Timers will go into serious training on Monday and expect to be in fairly good shape by game time. With such men as Hugh Devore, Norb Rascher, Ed Krause, Tom Roach, Kitty Gorman, Harry Wunsch, Joe Pivarnik, Laurie Vejar, Frank Laborne, and Steve Banas available, they should be able to give the Varsity a tough afternoon. Last year the Old-Timers humiliated the Varsity with a 7 to 0 defeat.
Varsity Basketball Spring Practice Sessions. Begin
A large group of sophomore candidates met with available varsity veterans, headed by Captain Johnny Jordan, to answer the call for Coach George Keogan’s first spring practice session. Feeling is running unusually high, due perhaps to the three large vacancies left in varsity ranks, and the open competition that will necessarily fill them.
Work so fai* has been limited to offensive and defensive scrimmages, in order to acquaint the erstwhile freshmen with the Keogan style of play.
“The • Rockne of basketball” intends to cover about four weeks in his spring conditioning school, with workouts scheduled for three days a week. Ireland, Ford, O’Kane, and Jordan are a few of the veterans who have responded to the cal’., so with the exception of the football, and baseball squad members, the entire varsity roster is taking advantage of the early drills.
Baseball Team Meets Chicago, Saturday; Northwestern Monday
Hall Golf - - -
The Interhall golf tournament will get into full swing on Sunday in an effort to determine the interhall golf champion. This year the links tourney is under the direction of Captain Vince Fehlig of the varsity golf team. Captain Fehlig has announced that a new system has been adopted by which the winner is selected. In former years the halls battled for a team championship, but this year the individual champion will be determined.
Each Sunday three halls will take to the field. This will constitute the qualifying round and from these rounds the sixteen lowest scores will be chosen. During the course of the week the qualifiers will play their first, second, and third round matches so that by the end of the week the individual hall champ will have been selected. The first round matches will be played on Monday or Tuesday, the second round on Wednesday or Thursday, and the final round of qualifying play will be on Friday or Saturday. After all of the individual hall champs have been selected they will be paired together and they will then vie for the coveted title of Interhall champion.
The qualifying round will be of eighteen holes while the final round will be played over thirty-six holes. By keeping a sharp lookout on your hall bulletin board or on the board in the golf club hall you will see when your hall takes to the field. Each Sunday’s game will be posted in the sports calendar of The Scholastic. The first three halls to take to the field will be Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard. They will tee off on Sunday, April 22nd. On April 29th, Walsh, Sorin, and Corby will play. Then on May 6th Alumni, Badin, St. Edward’s, and Off-Campus will vie for honors. The final qualifying-will be on May 13th for Dillon, Sophomore, Carroll, and Brownson.
There’s Money in Selling!
GRADUATES: Find out about opportunity for profit as Aluminum Ware Specialists. We need only highest type men. Not house-to-house or canvassing job. If work appeals, profitable careers are open to you.
WM. A. BURNETTE -	- Hartford, Michigan
IRISH LOOK FOR FIRST WIN
By Cy Stroker
The Irish baseball team, after suffering two defeats at the hands of the Ohio State and Western State nines during the last week, will continue its season in a game tomorrow with the University of Chicago team at Chicago. Monday Kline’s men will meet the Northwestern University-Wildcats on Cartier Field.
Chicago is generally acknowledged to have a strong aggregation and it was this team that easily defeated the Irish in each of the two games last year with scores of 6-5 and 13-1. The Windy City men were badly trounced last Saturday, however, by Western State with the same team that beat Notre Dame here Tuesday. The result of tomorrow’s game is a toss-up but Chicago seems to have the more powerful team at present.
. Wildcats Have Good Pitching
Monday’s game is, perhaps, more favorable for Notre Dame. Northwestern’s team, although not to be underrated, possesses neither the hard hitting nor the good fielding that the three teams that precede on the Irish card. In their- opening game last Saturday, however, the Evanston men showed great pitching strength and reasonably good batting. In last year’s tilts with the Irish, Northwestern broke even, winning and losing one game.
The two defeats which have opened the season for Notre Dame may be attributed to a lack of coordination. That this phase of Notre Dame’s playing is due to the short time that the group has been playing can be seen by a review of the games. Both Ohio State and Western State gained their leads during the first few innings. In each game the Irish came back with enough strength, at least, to show that the ability to make runs is present to an unquestionable degree. The coming games will probably show Kline’s team in a better light.
April 2 0, 1 9 3 4
Eleven
Irish Win 9th Consecutive Golf
Match; Defeat Detroit, 14 to 4
Tennis Team Faces Wildcats, West. State
THREE TIE FOR MEDAL
The Irish golfers opened their 1931 season with an overwhelming victory at the expense of the University of Detroit here last Saturday. The final score read 14 to 4. It was the ninth consecutive dual match victory for Notre Dame and the fourth win over Detroit in as many starts.
Playing conditions were extremely unfavorable and effected the games of both squads. The soggy course and chilly blasts were not conducive to low scores. Johnny Banks, Johnny Montedonico, and Win Day tied for medal honors with 76’s.
Win Day made an auspicious beginning as a varsity man by defeating Dawson Taylor 6 and 5, 3 to 0. Previously he had paired with Herman Green to subdue the Detroit combine of Taylor and Beck 7 and 5, 3 to 0. This local team reached the halfway mark 5 up. Day’s par four on the tenth made it six up and a similar feat on the 13th cinched the match. Green and Day did not lose a hole during the 18-hole tramp. Day grabbed victory on the 13th in luis single match and lost but one hole, the 16th, when he wound up one over par, five.
Banks And Montedonico Rally
Captain Vince Fehlig defeated Captain Whiting of Detroit 2 and 1, 2 to 1. Vince was out in 38 to lead three up. He was four up on the 13th, but had his lead cut to three on the following green and to two on the 16th. They halved at four on the next hole to give Fehlig the win.
Johnny Banks and Johnny Montedonico staged a last minute rally to mow down their doubles rival’s lead and even their match. The Irish pair were trailing, three down, as they teed off on 15. Par threes on this and the 17th by both Notre Dame lads cut the Detroit lead to one up and one to go. Banks and Montedonico put their sticks to work on the home stretch, holed out in birdie fours, and squared the match.
The summaries:
Banks 76, and Montedonico 76, Notre Dame; tied Whiting 77, and Riley 79, < Detroit, to 1%.
Day 76, and Green 79, Notre Dame: defeated Taylor 85, and Beck 88, Detroit, 3 to 0.
Day 78. Notre Dame; defeated Taylor 83. Detroit, 3 to 0.
Capt. Fehlig 78, Notre Dame; defeated Capt. Whiting 80, Detroit, 2 to 1.
Montedonico 78, Notre Dame; defeated Riley 80, Detroit, 2 to 1.
Veeneman 81, Notre Dame: defeated Beck 81, Detroit, 2 to 1.
Interhall
Balking and sputtering, with forfeits and postponements, the Interhall baseball machine got under way last Sunday with six hard ball teams braving the lack of practice and organization to play three rather top notch contests. The boys who use the softer balls had less luck and were forced to postpone all their first week games. Barring many possible things they will get on the way Saturday when six of their group are scheduled to perform.
St. Ed’s Trims Lyons
In Group I of the hardball leagues, St. Edward’s rolled over Lyons, 14-2, and Badin stopped Morrissey, 3-2. Themes, Peters, and Walker used the stick to good advantage for the Saints, the former polling a home run, and Walker getting three hits out of four times at bat. Hawley, of the battery team of Barnett and Hawley, held the Lyons hall batsmen to two lone bingles with Penty, cleanup man, getting both. Badin and Morrissey had quite an argument over* their game, Montgomery of the Junior hall finally settling it in the sixth with a long triple which scored the tying and winning run. Both Compa, Badin hall twirler, and Dunn, were very effective on the mound.
The following single drawings were released for the next appearance of the teams, both in hardball and soft competition, but complete schedules for the balance of the season are soon to be released. Teams that forfeited last week’s play are: Sorin to Dillon, Walsh to Howard, and Off-Campus to Brownson.
Baseball: Morrissey vs. Dillon, Diamond 1, 9. a.m.; Sorin vs. St. Edward’s, Diamond 2, 9 a.m.; Lyons vs. Corby, Cartier, 9 a.m.; Brownson vs. Freshman, Brownson, 9 a.m.; Carroll vs. Alumni, Freshman, 9 a.m.; Howard vs. Off-Campus, Brownson, 2 p.m.
Softball: Saturday, April 21 at 1:30—Lyons & St. Edward’s at Alumni; Morrissey & Badin at Brownson; Dillon & Sorin at St. Edward’s.
Tuesday, April 24th, at 3:30— Brownson & Freshman at Alumni; Carroll & Alumni at Brownson; Howard & Off-Campus at St. Edward’s.
Thrusday, April 26th at 3:30— Morrissey & Dillon at Alumni; Sorin & St. Edward’s at Brownson; Lyons & Corby at St. Edward’s.
This afternoon on the University tennis courts, the Notre Dame net-men will make their debut against that talented squad of racquet-wield-ers from Northwestern University of Evanston, Ill. The Notre Dame combine led by Captain Jack O’Hanlon has been severely handicapped by the weather. It was planned to select the team through the showing of the players in the spring tournament now being run off, but old man Plu-vius put an end to this idea by allowing one match to be played off since last Friday.
From all advance reports it looks like a Northwestern victory. They are coming down here with their usually strong club paced by Combe and Laux, both veterans of two years experience. Last season the Wildcats blanked the Irish tennis devotees 9 to 0, keeping their undefeated record intact against the local netsters. Notre Daame has never been able to topple the Wildcats in a tennis skirmish since the rivalry started, but this does not daunt O’Hanlon and his men who are striving this afternoon for that initial win.
Kazoos Boast Two Victories
The Notre Dame team will be made up of players selected by Capt. O’Hanlon and Manager Fred Sullivan who base their selections on the players’ performances in past tournaments. The best looking candidates for the club now, besides the three sure nominees of O’Hanlon, Kelly, and Wendlon, include Joe Waldron and Joe McNulty, sophomores.
Tomorrow the Irish tennis team will meet the Western State Teacher’s College sextet on the latter’s home courts in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The players who will compose the Notre Dame squad will be determined on the basis of showings made today in the match with Northwestern University.
Notre Dame tennis is sweltering under two consecutive defeats at the hands of the Kazoos. In 1931 the teachers handed the Irish a beating by the narrow margin of 4 to 3. The year following, State sent its traditionally strong team here to overwhelm Louis Chreist and aides, 7 to 0.	'
In that affair the visitors won all matches and all but one set. Jack O’Hanlon, present Irish captain, was the odd man in the company that day. He won the second set of his match after losing a close first set, 7 to 5.
Notre Dame tennis will feel the (Continued on Page 14)
T iv e I v e
The Scholastic
Baseball Team Loses
Opener to Ohio State
Introducing...
Klinemen Drubbed by
Western State, 14 to 7
Between flurries of snow, Notre Dame’s baseball team bowed to the Buckeyes of Ohio State by the score of 7 to 5 last Friday afternoon. To less superstitions people, Friday the 13th was just another day, but it proved a bad day for the first official game of Coach Jake Kline’s diamond proteges.
Notre Dame rallied in the last half of the ninth inning but a fast double play smothered the comeback two runs short of its goal.
Norb Rascher was the starting pitcher for Notre Dame and held his Ohio opponents in check the first two innings. He lost control in the third, however, and filled the bases. Wickle of the Buckeyes then hit a roller to Cunha and the Irish shortstop booted the ball into left field, allowing Prosenjack and Clawson to score.
States Scores In Fourth
In the fourth, Ohio State scored two more tallies on Clawson’s booming triple with two mates on bases. Lewis, the Buckeye third baseman raised the score to five to nothing by driving Claawson home with a clean single to right.
Bill Powell, batting for Sagartz, the second Irish twirler, poled out a single to start the Notre Dame rally in the ninth. He went to third on Paul Kane’s single to right. On the third straight hit of the inning Cunha drove Powell across the plate and advanced to third. Vic Mettler then drove a scorching liner through Wickel to score Kane and Cunha. Perry fanned and Lefty Dunn ended the ball game by hitting into a double play.
The box score:
Ohio State (7)	Notre Dame (5)
	Ab R H			C	Ab R			H	G
Pros’njack.rf 3		2	1	0	Kane,2b	5	1	2	7
Clawson.2b	4	2	2 11		Cunha.ss	5	0	2	5
Lewis,3b	5	0	3	1	Mettler,3b	5	1	2	1
McAfee.lb	'5	0	0	9	Perry, rf	4	0	1	4
Vidis cf	4	1	2	5	Dunn.lb	4	0	2	9
Wickel.ss	2	0	0	4	Beach,cf	2	0	0	0
Long.lf	2	1	0	0	LaBorne.cf	2	0	0	0
Moser,c	4	1	2	6	Devore.lf	4	1	2	3
Kammer,p	1	0	0	0	O’Neil.c	0	1	0	o
Blue, p	3	0	0	3	Rascher.p	1	0	0	0
Ulrich,p	0	0	0	0	Sagartz.p	2	0	0	4
	—				x Palmisani	1	0	0	9
	33	7 10 39			xx Powell	1	1	1	0
						35	5 12 38		
x Palmisani batted for Beach in sixth, xx Powell batted for Sagartz in ninth.
Errors—Moser, 2; Cunha. Two base hits— Prosenjack, Moser. Three base hit—Clawson. Sacrifice—Wickel. Double plays—Wickel to Clawson to McAfee; Vidis to Clawson ; Clawson to Wickel to McAfee; Cunha to Kane to ' Dunn. Base on balls—Off Blue, 4 ; off Kammer, 1; Off Ulrich, 1; Off Raascher, 3; Off Saagartz, 3. Struck out — by Blue, 2; by Kammer, 2; by Ulrich, 2; by Sagartz, 4. Winning pitcher — Blue. Losing pitcher— Rascher. Umpires—Daley and DeRose.
By John D. Carbine
Jack O’Hanlon, captain of the Notre Dame tennis team, has been a steady performer on the Irish net squads for two years. He came to
Jack O’Hanlon He won a set.
Notre Dame in 1930 and won himself a berth on the tennis team in his sophomore year.
Playing number three man, he won six out of his nine matches for the Irish in his first year of competition. Last year he alternated with Nick Lukats at the number two position and won four out of seven matches.
This afternoon O’Hanlon will lead the Irish netmen in their attempt to chalk up their first victory over the strong Northwestern squad. Last year the Wildcats handed Notre Dame a six to nothing defeat. The only Irish netman who was able to win a set during that afternoon was O’Hanlon who won the second set of his match, 7-5 before going down to a two set to one defeat.
O’Hanlon got his first taste of competitive tennis at St. John’s Academy in the nation’s capital, where he was captain of the net team for four years. During his captaincy, St. John’s won the Washington Prep championship for two successive years.
During the past five years, O’Hanlon has played in many of the invitational and sectional tournaments. He won the singles championship of the Buena Vista Invitational Tournament in 1929, 1930 and 1931. In 1929 he captured the District of Columbia Prep School Individual Championship. He twice reached the finals of the District of Columbia Boys Tournament before being eliminated by Frank Shore who recently extended George Lott to five sets.
In June O’Hanlon will be graduated cum laude.
The Notre Dame baseball nine lost its second straight game here Tuesday when it succumbed to Western State Teachers College, 14 to 7.
The Irish played ragged ball for the first three innings and then settled down afield. Their batting punch was negligible until the ninth frame when Dietz, classy State hurler, weakened and the Klinemen pushed across six runs.
Western State jumped to an early lead of 3 to 0 at the end of the second inning and later increased the lead until it mounted to 14 tallies.
Charlie Huisking, the starting Irish pitcher, was the victim of his team’s poor support. Kline’s men couldn’t seem to hold on to anything that came within their reach. Later on they overcame this difficulty but Mettler cut loose with a couple that threatened the stands with their wildness. Huisking was later replaced by Mazelin, who was pounded hard after setting the opposing batters down in the sixth. Rascher finished the game for the Irish on the mound.
The box score:
Notre Dame (7)
Ab R H P A
Kane.2b 5 113 3
Cunha.ss 5 112 1
MettJer.3b 4 12 12
Perry.lf	5	0	12	0
Dunn.lb	3	1	011	0
Devore,rf	3	0	0 0	0
Sepe.cf	3	2	10	0
O’Neil.c	4	0	18	0
H’sking.p	1	0	0 0	5
Mazelin.p	1	0	0 0	2
Leon’rd.p	1	0	0 0	1
Rasch’r.p 10 10 2
Powell,rf 0 10 0 0
Total 36 7 8 2717
Western State (14) Ab R H P A B’kh’sen.ss 5 2 13 1 N’man.3b 5 2 110 Miller.lb 5 2 3 4 0 Koch.c 6 116 1 Secory.cf 5 2 0 4 0 Hibb’rd.rf 6 12 0 0 ’Trn’bo.2b 2 2 13 0 Salter.lf 4 10 6 0 Deitz.p 4 110 7 xNemeth 1 0 0 0 0
Total ____43 14 10 27 9
x batted for Salter in eighth.
Errors—Mettler 2, Perry, Dunn 2. O'Neil. Huisking, Mazelin. Stolen bases—Berkhausen. Hibberd. Salter, Mettler, Deitz. Hits off—4 in 4 2-3 innings; Mazelin, 4 in 21-3 innings; Leonard, one in one inning; Rascher, one in one inning. Bases on balls off—Huisking, 7; Mazelin, 1; Leonard, 1; Rascher.l: Beach, 12. Strike outs—3 by Huisking; 2 by Mazelin; 1 by Rascher; 5 by Dietz. Three base hits—Bar-nabo, Sepe, Mettler. Home run—Miller. Left on bases: Western State, 10 : Notre Dame. 12. Umpires: Daly at plate; DeRose on bases.
Time—3 hours.
April 2 0, 1 9 3
Thirteen
KANSAS RELAYS
(Continued from Page 10)
was thought to be of minor seriousness, it has not responded enough to treatment to allow the little fellow to run. He will be on the side lines for at least a week or two.
Vince Murphy will be making his first bid for outdoor fame, as will George Meagher. Murphy’s leg has shown great improvement in the past 'month and the elongated high jumper should be at his best tomorrow.
The Kansas Relays will be dedicated to Glenn Cunningham this year. Glenn, the premier American miler, will run a special 1500 meter race or a special mile race. Gene Venzke
will appear as Cunningham’s chief rival in the meet. Efforts have also been made to bring Bill Bonthron, Princeton’s miler, to the Relays.
The coming of Venzke to the Kansas affair is an exchange of courtesies, as Cunningham is to run a similar race in the Penn Relays in Philadelphia on April 28.
Included in the teams entered are Chicago, Northwestern, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri, Montana, Kansas State College, Iowa State College, Washington U., Drake, Texas, and Notre Dame.
Sullivan Announces Spring Tennis Tourney Results
TENNIS OPENERS
(Continued from Page 12)
loss of Louis Chreist who, with Dick Kelly, returning veteran, combined to give Notre Dame one of its strongest doubles teams. Last year this pair dropped only one match, coming from behind on numerous occasions to snatch victory when their chances seemed negligible. Kelly, also a player of his own right in the singles matches, will be forced to secure a new partner this year for his two way matches. Dick should win his share of contests in the singles play this spring.
With justifiable pride we announce a new line of shoes for young men!
The Spring tennis tournament to determine who will fill the open places on the tennis team has progressed through the first round. Fred Sullivan, manager of minor sports, has announced the following results:
Layden defeated Anslover. Ziepprecht defeated Bray. Sward defeated Newrith. Shapiro defeated Askenden. Waldron defeated Forbes. Kramer defeated Cavanaugh. Haverick deefated Shea.
Annas defeated Ellis. Garland defeated Cashman. Predergast defeated Murphy.-McNulty defeated Campbell. Welden defeated Sickmeyer. Bott defeated Christensen.
Rifle Team Wins From Buchanan and Studebaker
See these New Sport Shoes at our downtown store
During the last week the Notre Dame Rifle team won two very close matches. On Friday night the Notre Dame team were the hosts to the Buchanan rifle team. The Irish defeated the Michigan shooters 475 to 470. In this shooting contest Captain McGrath and Minarick were the high scorers of the evening each carding a total of 98. Herman and Andrews of the Buchanan team led their squad each with 95.
On Monday night the Notre Dame team again won a tight match this time from the Studebaker A.C., 967 to 965. The shoot was staged at the Studebaker galleries. White of the downtowners had a perfect score of 200. Minarick was again the leader of the Irish with 197.
On Friday night the Notre Dame team will embark for Michigan, where they will take on the Buchanan team for a return engagement.
The plans for the Interhall shooting contest have not yet been settled, but the bullettin for the matches will be carded in the near future. Notices will be posted on the hall bulletin boards notifying contestants of the rules of the shoot. •
Special Selling fl)all-$and Sport Shoes
• Ideal for
• Tennis
Running
•' Soft Ball
Basketball
Hiking—etc.
Growing in popularity because it combines the long wear of a leather upper with the comfort and economy of a rubber sole sport shoe.
A splendid shoe for about the campus, or spring and summer sports wear!
Regular $2.50 Shoe
Spend/ $ 4 on/y I
X i I a I
ON SALE NOW! at the campus shop
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
r i
By James S. Kearns
RELAYS
Tomorrow afternoon out at Lawrence, where the Kansas Relays will be run, the Notre Dame track team will launch its outdoor season. For the next ten days, Coach Nicholson’s charges will be devoted pretty ex-. clusively to the business of perfecting relay teams.
With a few breaks from the weather, and barring further- injuries and a recovery from those already suffered, the Irish runners should do well for themselves tomorrow and at Penn and Drake next Saturday.
For the first time in track history here, Notre Dame will have a shuttle hurdle relay team to enter in the big spring carnivals. Jim Fagan, Carl Link, Mike Layden, and George Meagher are all capable of running the high sticks in :15.5 or better if they are in top form.
A shuttle team able to shade 62 seconds will collect points in almost any meet, and if the Irish all happen to click at the same time, their quartet should be able to better that time.
The other relay teams are a bit doubtful. Nick has the makings of a fine four-mile team in Captain Joe Young, Leo McFarlane, Eddie King, and Clyde Roberts. The recent disability, of Young and King has set the team back several days of normal progress.
The mile team, running about as it did indoors, can be expected to come close to 3:20, possibly to get under that mark with favorable conditions. The two-mile team can be made strong, but it would require doubling-up by at least one performer. Possibly out of his squad of half-milers including Young, King, Roberts, a couple of the 440 men, and Jim Sheils, Jerry Farrell, and Sal Ducas-sa, Nick can build a 7:52 team or possibly a better one, without weakening the othei- events too much.
SHORTS
Suggested Saturday occupations: watch the golf team in an intercollegiate match . . . they’re a pretty smooth crew . . . Congratulations to Captain-elect Johnny Jordan . . . he’ll be a good leader for a team that should be strong . . . Sorry to bring this up, but we do need a couple of good tennis courts . . . Sports on the program between now and June: varsity track, baseball, golf, tennis, spring football . . . Interhall baseball, softball, soccer, golf, track, rifle meets ... a bit of intercollegiate soccer, too, by the LaRaza team . . . and 3,987,932 innings of impromptu softball by the Sorin-Walsh A. C.
April 2 0, 19 3 4
another sale
Selling by telephone gets results. In many lines of business, salesmen are finding they can cover more customers more often—and close more sales at lower cost—by telephone.
Bell System men have worked out a number of plans for systematic market coverage by Long Distance telephone. They have also devised telephone plans for more efficient handling of production, purchasing, administration, distribution, collections.
Because Bell System service is fast, economical, adaptable to specific needs, business more and more turns to the telephone.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
WHY NOT SAY "HELLO”TO MOTHER AND DAD?
—RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30 P. M.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
WJ ne tr< ru at
fir G< sh m sh
ca G1 wi a
By Nick Connor
JACK ELDER tied the accepted world’s record for the 60 yard dash more than twenty times during his three years of varsity competition. . . . DICK BARTELL, the Philadelphia National’s shortstop, was a crack high jumper on his prep school track team. . . . The largest racing ground in America is at BELMONT PARK in Long Island. It comprises more than 400 acres. ... A ski jumping tournament in July, is being planned by the Detroit LAKES SKI CLUB. Instead of using snow, the riders will leap into huge piles of straw. . . . More than 10,000 golf balls were found when CWA workers dredged the lagoon on the South Grove course in Indianapolis. . . . Out of 42 Davis Cup tennis matches in which he engaged, WILLIAM TILDEN was vic-.torious in 35. . . . Historical records show that the early Spanish settlers in St. Augustine, Fla., brought billiards along with them. . . . CORNELIUS C OH AL AN, basketball coach at Manhattan college, is the eighth of his family to receive the baccalaureate degree from that institution.
Straw Hat day at the EPSOM DOWNS track at Houston, Texas, when various races were to be named for styles of hats, had to be postponed this year on account of cold weather. . . . Do you know that more than one-tenth of the 479 players listed in the MAJOR LEAGUES make their homes in California? . . . EARLE SANDE won more money in the saddle than any other jockey in turf history, his purse and stake winnings amounting to about $3,000,000. . . . FRANCIS FIELD at Washington university was built for the first Olympic games held in America, in conjunction with the world’s fair in 1904. . . . Some sort of record is due CARLETON COLLEGE as they have won 62 consecutive basketball games on its home floor. ... KING GUSTAF, Sweden’s great tennis enthusiast, will be laid up for some time due to a nasty spill that he took while playing on the courts the other day. . . .
The varsity basketball team at ST. FRANCIS COLLEGE has been playing together for seven years, starting as sophomores at St. Francis Prep. . . . The first mention of golf that ever appeared in the United States appeared in the Charleston
Sixteen
Gazette in 1795. . . . SARWAN SINGH, a 24 year old running marvel from the Sikh Indian tribe, has covered 80 miles in less than twelve hours with a camel pacing him. . . . A proud old sire was BROOMSTICK, the immortal racehorse, who presented to competition one year a son, grandson, great-grandson and a great-great grandson. . . . HARRY WOLFE, the squash tennis champion, was a Plii Beta Kappa student while at Williams College. . . . With twenty
"WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND”
© P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
Cramming is a pleasure—if it’s cramming mellow old BRIGGS into your pipe! BRIGGS is aged in the wood for years until it’s biteless. No wonder it became a nation-wide favorite before it had a line of advertising! Won’tyouletBRIGGSspeak for itself, in your own pipe?
consecutive victories over a period of three seasons the wrestling squad of LEHIGH UNIVERSITY is credited with being one of the strongest in the east. . . . Another ping-pong expert is young PRINCE MICAHEL of Rumania, who claims that the finger spin is the best way of cutting down an opponent’s lead. . . . The gymnastic team at West Point hasn’t lost a match since COACH TOM MALONEY took charge in the middle of the 1930-31 season.
KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
The Scholastic
Europe Offsets Exchange Rate With Reduced Travel Charges
In a recent interview with Mr. Janies Vodak, a world travel expert, who is to be at the La Salle Hotel on Tuesday of this coming week, he said:
“There is a general feeling that because of the fluctuation in the value of the American Dollar that travel in foreign lands this year is
going to be very expensive. This is not by any means the case as railroads, hotels, sightseeing companies, etc. throughout the world are alive to the situation and have greatly reduced their rates this year to offset the exchange condition.
“Your American Dollar will go a surprisingly long way in Europe this year, even discounting the reduced prices for travel. For example, in England your Dollai* is still worth 97 cents and costs in England are
much less than in this country where prices are mounting.
“Russia has reduced their tour prices from 20% to 48% and are quoting rates in American dollars. German railroads have reduced their rates by one-third. Italian Railways have reduced theirs 50% to 70%. Swiss Railroads are down 25%, etc. so that if you have thought of Europe this year do not be afraid of the big' bad dollai*. Its purchasing power is still exceptionally good.”
These humble quatrains are composed To tell a sprightly tale
Of how a witty junior nosed
A senior with a frail.
The tale, ye hearties, goes like this: It seems two lads were nuts
About a certain little miss
Whose name, we’ll say, was Lutz.
Now Bert had honors, letters; he Was quite the well-known lad.
While two-bucks-ten and faith-in-me Were all that Tommy had.
When blond Miss Lutz declined to go With Bert, he w’ondered why.
That Tommy should get all the show Was quite a blackened eye.
The junior’s Christian name was Tom; The senior’s name was Bert.
They both considered for the prom The same blond, blue-eyed skirt.
He learned the night the prom was thrown Why he had lost the date.
For Tom had made the timely loan
Of someone’s Ford V-8!
April 13, 1931
Seventeen

Copyright 1031. The American Tobuceo Ciimpuny.
LUCKIES
ARE ALL-WAYS
“It’s toasted”
e^Luckies are made of only the clean center leaves —the mildest, best-tasting tobaccos. And then, 'It’s toasted’ for throat protection. Every Lucky Strike is
Luckies are albways kind to your throat
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves
7aL& pet&h
KIND TO
round, firm,
YOUR THROAT
fully packed — no loose
ends. That’s why Luckies 'keep in condition’— do not dry out. Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat.
SPRING
ANNOUNCEMEN
Mr. James Vodak, a World Travel Expert, will be in South Bend on Tuesday, April 24th. He will make his headquarters in the lobby of the LaSalle Hotel. Anyone interested in travel is cordially invited to call upon Mr. Vodak and discuss travel without any obligation or expense whatsoever.
Hot, heavy breakfasts are out of date. It’s spring— and time to change to crispness! Try a bowl of crisp, delicious Kellogg’s Corn Flakes. See how much fresher, fitter you feel.
Kellogg’s at night, just before bedtime, make a
splendid pick-me-up. So
appetizing. And so much better for you than heavy
indigestible foods. In a
few minutes you’re ready for sound, refreshing
sleep.
Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Wf DO oua AMT
You should know about the surprisingly low cost of travel to foreign lands; the greatly reduced rates offered by European railroads, hotels, etc. to offset the foreign exchange fluctuations, and the many and varied cruises in luxury liners that are available.	_____
Mr. Vodak is fully posted on World Travel and will be Z' Jr triad tc see you at the hotel between the hours of A.
10 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Tuesday. If this- is not conven- /
ient, telephone him at 3-1181 for appointment. |	j '
CUNARD LINE \ //
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
Schoo] Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
Twenty
The Scholastic
One Bright Spot on The Campus April 29, 30, and May 1 Will Be Washington Hall
When The Linnets Present
The Spring Campus Revue
A Complete Repertoire of Minstrel, Ballad,
And Hot-cha Music
Tax 25c
Benefit of Bengal Mission

HR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
e way tobacco is cut has a
lot to do with the way Chesterfield
burns and tastes
© 1934.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
THERE are many different ways of cutting tobacco.
A long time ago, it used to be cut on what was known as a Pease Cutter, but this darkened the to-bacco, and it was not uniform.
The cutters today are the most improved, modern, up-
cut uniformly, and cut in long shreds.
The tobacco in Chesterfield is cut right — you can judge for yourself how Chesterfields burn and how they taste.
Everything that science knows is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that’s milder... the ciga-
the cigarette that's MILDER • the cigarette that. TASTES BETTER