Football Issue
VOL 75
NO. 9
NOVEMBER, 1941
L. E
Ph°NE 3-2805
. “I DROPPED h “WHAT?” “My WATCH,”
M.	’
X-RAY EXAMINATION HOURS BY APPOINTMENT
'Ry
BUfI_DING
DR- ARTHUR
609 J. M.S. Building South Bend,Ind.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATO 825 SHERLAND
C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
Re®«oence 4.IS44
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
So uth Bend , END- Induna
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-360
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose. d. d. s. Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND Bldg. SOUTH BEND
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
EROM
PETERS, Watch Mak.
102% N. Michi* Over Clark’
PROFESSIONAL CARDS

DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED POn”-
2°6'4°8 ToweR BLOG
Pt1ONE 3-2S>4
Western Electric
... is back of your Bell Telephone
Wrvl''''
HERE'S ™E
LATEST worv
WASHINGTON
You want your News served HOT
What’s happening iii Europe? In Washington? Who won that game? Will it rain tomorrow?
You get quick answers through newspaper, newsreel, and newscast—all of which depend largely on Western Electric equipment.
The reporter’s right arm is the telephone— made by Western Electric. The great press associations distribute news by Teletype — another Western Electric product which typewrites over telephone wires. Much talking picture and broadcasting apparatus is made by Western Electric.
Though it plays these varied parts in your life. Western Electric is most important to you in its primary role as manufacturer, purchaser and distributor for the Bell Telephone System.
'ootball ffleview
The Editor wishes to express his sincere gratitude and give full credit to all those who helped to prepare this section of the magazine and in particular to the following who directly contributed to it:
John Dinges Joe Uhring John Powers
Ray Donovan Don Murphy Frank Keenan
Bill Reynolds John Kirby Frank Kunkel
Frank Leahy worked himself and his players hard. The result was the blasting of the new coach’s own pessimistic prophecy that the days of undefeated Notre Dame teams are passed.
Mr. Leahy left a brilliant trail to follow another rougher road, one where the fruits of victory are harder won and the stings of defeat more keenly felt. Upon him, in critical gaze, were the eyes of the nation’s football fans. Some censured him for his decision to return to his Alma Mater to teach a new crop of boys the wisdom he had learned from Rockne, the master of them all. Others who knew Notre Dame and Frank Leahy saw great things in store for both of them. Some who knew and loved “The Thin Man” would have liked to stick by him, and wondered what changes this soft-spoken, handsome gentleman would make. His pessimistic attitude towards unbeaten seasons was difficult to swallow, for that goal, coyly elusive to Notre Dame teams for the last ten years, is dear to Irish hearts.
Tough workouts gave players a new perspective on footbalL Changes were made in the lineup; backs were shoved into a forward wall that stood up against the nation’s best for close to 60 minutes in each game. A jolt was handed the student body when all they could see of their team in action were calesthenics and whatever Saturday features they could spot. But those Saturday games made worthwhile not being able to peer over the shoulders of a cordon of football managers each week-day. We saw the unveiling of Angelo B. Bertelli, whose passing and all-around play has sports writers seeking new superlatives. We saw Ziemba save more than one game by charging through his new position to block conversions; we saw as fine a pair of guards as a coach could seek in Bernie Crimmins, playing his third position for Notre Dame, and stocky Bob Maddock proving his durable ability. Under Leahy, tackles Jim Brutz and Captain Paul Lillis further improved their fine work of last year. Johnny Kovatch proved that he was a great end, especially on defense where he was consistently playing in the opponents’ backfields. In the backfield Juzwik, in his own hard-driving, efficient manner, lived up to the predictions made for him and drove the team out of several dangerous spots; Evans carried on where the “Moose” left off; and Harry Wright caught the Leahy spirit to quarterback die team to an unbeaten season.
As the Religious Bulletin periodically informs us, the team didn’t get that way by wishing; it worked long and hard. The result was eleven men who can play ball on anybody’s team for a full game if need be. Navy learned that and so did Northwestern. In all our memory of four years at N. D. we’ve never seen our boys play so hard and so long and yet finish the season in such good shape — physically fit and with so keen a squad morale.
Their style of play has opened up, due greatly perhaps to the Bertelli “luftwaffe” and to the fancy new plays in the deck from which Leahy dealt. Varsity men are hearty in their praise of the “quickie” screen play which sent Juzwik over the S. C. line Saturday.. Persons who ought to know have accredited our coach with one of the master minds in football. In the glow of contemporary success, writers might wax too enthusiastic, but we think that in this case the praise is justified.
Leahy is efficiency. He has certainly a capable band of helpers, carefully chosen by him so that his administration runs off smoothly. His patient, confident manner gets things done to everyone’s satisfaction.
Winning that last ball game didn’t end his work for the season; numerous speaking engagements will have his time well filled for some days; stacks of congratulatory letters from former players and friends remain to be answered. Persons who look upon coaching as nice, healthy, outdoor work, hampered somewhat by anxiety over approaching games, may get an idea of what is part of the lot of a top-flight mentor by considering the busy life of Mr. Leahy as he dashes from luncheon to luncheon, shakes countless hands, reads his voluminous correspondence, and plans for next year.
But when all praise is awarded to the coach and the team something remains to be recognized which is of greater significance, perhaps, than either of these. It was not the squad or the coaching staff alone who were responsible for the successful season just past. Notre Dome had an undefeated season. Every single person on this campus contributed something — no matter how trivial — to forging that chain of victory. With all these we rejoice that the chain proved strong to the end and remained unbroken though sorely tried.
4
Notre Dame 38 — Arizona 7
King Sol smiled his blessings on the Fighting Irish as they rang up the curtain on the 52nd season of Notre Dame football under the guiding reins of a new leader, Francis W. Leahy. The debut of the new Irish mentor was eclipsed somewhat by the deadly passing arm of unheralded Angelo Bortolo Bertelli, a sophomore passing sensation, and a host of other Irish backs as they slashed their way to a brilliant 38-7 victory over the Wildcats of the University of Arizona.
Notre Dame dominated the play from the opening kickoff to the final gun with the exception of Arizona’s one touchdown play that carried 66 yards from their own thirty-four yard line to a score. At half-time, from the appearance of the score, it was a very close game, but the Irish attack really opened up after the intermission. The green clad warriors scored two touchdowns in each of the last two stanzas.
Bertelli, the first sophomore to win a berth in an Irish backfield in several seasons, completed 6 out of 7 passes attempted in the first quarter to spark the opening touchdown drive. The last of these seven passes was good to left end Bob Dove for 16 yards and the score. The attempted place kick for the point failed as did three of the remaining five tries.
The second team took over at the start of the second quarter and wasted no time in making the score 12-0 via another pass play. This one, a 22 yard affair from Jade Warner to Bill Earley, was good for another score. The Wildcats bounced right back into the game, making the score read 12-7 by virtue of Bob Ruman’s long pass to Bob Johnson. Taking the ball in full stride on about the Irish 20, Johnson kept going to score.
In the third quarter the Irish regulars pushed over another score. After Bertelli’s two passes had put the ball on the nine yard line, Juzwik skirted the Wildcat right end for the touchdown and then place-kicked the extra point. The next time Notre Dame got the ball Dippy Evans produced the longest run of the game. Crashing over left guard and spinning clear of tacklers Dip turned on the steam and outran the Wildcat secondary for a 78 yard touchdown jaunt. Bertelli converted to push the Irish ahead 26-7.
The final two scores were registered by the second and third stringers in the fourth period. Right Guard Bernie Crimmins set up the first of these when he intercepted a pass late in the third period to halt an Arizona threat. Don Hogan registered the fifth Irish touchdown of the day, and soon after tossed a pass to Tom Miller to make the final score, Notre Dame 38, Arizona 7.

Slashing, driving, straightarming his way toward the Arizona goal line, Juzwik is finally bumped out of bounds on the four-yard line as the Wildcats of Arizona desperately try to stave off another Notre Dame touchdown.
5
Notre Dame 19
Indiana 6
Notre Dame unleashed a flawless passing attack and a spirited running game to trip their downstate rivals before 42,000 rain-drenched fans and present to Coach Leahy a personal triumph over the fighting Hoosiers, the first major foe of the year.
The best pre-game bet for the individual star of the battle was Indiana’s highly touted sophomore sensation, Billy Hillenbrand. But the Irish defense did not give the Hoosier ace much of a chance to strut his stuff as they repeatedly rushed him as he tried to pass and practically halted his running ability. This set the stage for Notre Dame’s own sophomore sensation to take the cake for the outstanding player of the game.
In taking their first major hurdle of the season, the Irish’ went at it in a big way. They not only had the heavy end of the score but were far out in front in the statistics. The Hoosiers fell behind in rushing, 52 yards net as compared with Notre Dame’s 197 net yardage. Indiana completed 2 of 12 attempted passes for 65 yards against 8 completions for 152 yards in 16 tries for the Irish. And in spite of 6 holding penalties for a total of 90 yards Notre Dame registered 17 first downs to the visitors’ 5.
Notre Dame roared to a touchdown on the third play of the game only to have it nullified by the first of the six holding penalties. Indiana intercepted a pass to stop the threat and was soon forced to kick to Juzwik. Cutting in
and out, his swivel-hips rolling away from would-be tacklers, Juzwik dazzled the Hoosiers with a 56 yard return to their 30 yard line. Again the Irish were halted. But in the closing minutes of the period, quarterback Harry Wright intercepted a Hoosier pass on his own 40 yard line. Bertelli’s passing and Juzwik’s running put the ball on the four yard line from where Evans crashed over for the score.
The second team played most of the second period with the regulars returning to action just before the end of the half. Dippy Evans put the Hoosiers in a hole with a beautiful coffin comer kick that went out on the Indiana two yard line. Juzwik took the return kick on the 36 and ran it back to the 19. On the third play Evans crashed over from the two yard line and Juzwik’s placement split the posts to give Notre Dame a 13-0 lead as the half ended.
During the intermission the crowd was entertained by the marching of the Irish and the Hoosier bands. Notre Dame started early in the third period to make the score 19-0. Starting on the Indiana 48 it took just seven running plays to the score. Dippy Evans carried the ball six of the seven tries, gaining all 48 yards himself and crashing over right tackle for the final seven yards. Coach Leahy then started saving his regulars and Indiana replied with its lone tally. From their 47 yard line Doloway flipped a long pass to Smith who, as he was being tackled, lateraled to Jacoby who galloped the rest of the distance unharmed.
"Come to papa"—says Steve Juzwik as his out-stretched arms await a pass from Bomber "Bert" Bertelli in the Illinois end zone. The ball heard the Chicago Galloper and nestled within his arms for six points and a touchdown for the Fighting Irish!
6
Notre Dame 20—Georgia Tech. 0
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame traveled into the sunny southland to take the sting out of the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech and bring home a honey-coated 20-0 victory. The green-clad gentlemen from the north humbled the Yellow Jackets before a crowd of 30,000 sweltering fans who witnessed the game in shirt sleeves.
The game was seven and one half minutes old when Angelo Bertelli threw a strike to End George Murphy for the initial score of the worst shutout defeat handed the Jackets in the ten game series.
The Jackets won one of the previous 9 games—in 1928 by 13-0. The impetus needed for the drive was set up by George Murphy and Bob Maddock. Murphy broke through to smear a Tech boot which Maddock covered on Tech’s 45 yard line. Four passes by Bertelli with four thrusts by Evans and Juzwik carried over the Jacket goal line. Juzwik’s attempted conversion split the uprights perfectly.
The second team, playing the second quarter, did not have enough momentum to add to the score—their only threat being halted on the Tech 34 yard line as “Lil Davey” Eldredge intercepted one of Jack Warner’s passes. The next time Notre Dame got the ball Coach Leahy sent his regulars in and they immediately made the score 14-0. “Dippy” Evans took the pass from center and started towards the Tech left end and spinning, handed the ball to
Steve Juzwik on a reverse. Juzwik steamed around the Tech right end and rolled off 67 yards to cross the goal line alone and standing up. Steve’s conversion was successful. - -
Next touchdown, in the third quarter, was also Juzwik’s. With 3 minutes remaining in the period Bob Dove trapped a fumble by Tech’s Johnny Bosch, their ace back, hampered by a knee injury. It took just seven plays to put the ball on the Tech 4 yard line from where Juzwik crashed over as his mates exploded the Jacket defense. The attempted place kick for conversion failed.
With the score 20-0 in Notre Dame’s favor-Coach Leahy substituted freely the second and third stringers who were able to hold the Jackets and make a couple of scoring threats themselves, once getting to Tech’s 6 yard line before relinquishing the ball.
Notre Dame outplayed the Yellow Jackets in every instance, getting 11 first downs to Tech’s 5 and 221 yards from scrimmage compared to 91 for the “Wrecks.” Tech’s inability to gain on pass plays—one completion in 8 attempts netting but 8 yards—was due mainly to Notre Dame’s unique four-man line. This distribution made a 4-3-1-2-1 defense that completely stymied Tech’s aerial offense. Six of the Jacket’s 8 passes were intercepted. The failure of the Irish to have a larger net gain was due principally to 4 holding penalties which brought the total to 14 charged against them in their first 3 games.
Steve Juzwik, the Irish thrill-back, skirts around his own right end and throws a scare into the Northwestern secondary before he is brought turf-ward after picking up twenty yards.
7
Notre Dame 16 — Carnegie Tech. 0
A battered, yet valiant crew of Skibo gridders raised their oars in a farewell salute to the superior forces of Coach Frank Leahy, as they rowed the leaky ship of Tech off the Notre Dame football schedule.
After absorbing the punishing broadside fire of the Irish for sixty minutes, Coach Eddie Baker, commander of the fighting forces of badly undermanned Tech, grudgingly hoisted a white flag to signify the end of a sloppy grid game that had all the aspects of a naval battle.
A steady, all-day rain reduced the speed of the Irish “Skeeter-Boats”—Juzwik, Evans and Bertelli. Despite the rain and mud, however, the aerial bombs of Bertelli continued to hit their mark and scatter the defense of a surprisingly stubborn Skibo crew.
When the final gun spat a ball of light-blue smoke into the drizzle of a murky October afternoon it marked the close of the game, as well as the Irish-Tartan grid series, which had its start back in 1922.
Carnegie Tech this year had reached an all time low in football material. Yet, they refused to admit defeat. Many fans refused to attend the games because they weren’t particularly anxious to witness a one-sided battle.
It was rumored about the Tech campus, before the contest, that the student body was going to picket the stadium and refuse to let their players take the field against the terrible Irish dreadnaught, and thereby prevent the possibility of serious injury to the Tech players.
This may have been the popular opinion of fans in and around Pittsburgh, but we assure you it was not shared by Coach Baker and his men.
If the Tartans did reason along these lines, then all we have to say is that eleven trembling skibos certainly put up a terrific battle. And we feel that the handful of rain-drenched fans who witnessed the contest had difficulty detecting the de-emphasis that had eaten through varsity material.
The highly-touted gridders of Frank Leahy found the Carnegie Tech goal line a most elusive thing to cross. Tech, supposed to be one of those “you name the score victims,” threw up a savage, and it must be said most unexpected, resistance whenever pay dirt was in the offing.
Shortly. after the start of the game, the churning legs of chunky Steve Juzwik ate up seven remaining yards of a 74 yard march to give the Irish an early lead over the Tartans. Juzwik booted the extra point.
After this score, Notre Dame began another drive toward the Tech goal line, but was stopped when Dippy Evans fumbled a reverse from Harry Wright.
Following this, the Irish elected to stick to orthodox football which produced plenty of yardage but nary a touchdown until the second team climaxed a 49 yard march with C. Miller hitting pay dirt from the one-yard marker. Jack Warner creased the uprights for the extra point.
Jack Fritz, 148 pound halfback star of the Tartans, contributed two points to the Irish cause, when he was trapped and tackled behind his own goal line midway in the second quarter.
Tech muffed its lone scoring threat when end Frank Ramsay dropped a pass on the goal line after it had been deflected by an Irish defender.
The final score — Notre Dame, 16; Carnegie Tech, 0.
Hargrave, playing heads-up football, typical of the Irish gridders all season, intercepts an Arizona pass and drives for eight yards before being stopped by a bevy of Wildcat tacklers.
8
Notre Dame 49
Illinois 14
“The spirit of 88” manifested itself as Notre Dame unleashed one of the greatest aerial attacks ever seen under the Golden Dome to smother Illinois, 49 to 14.
Unlike the long list of players whose number has been entered in the Irish directory of fame, Mr. 88, Ken Cheeley, Illini center, unfortunately went down in the books because of his apparent infamy. In the third quarter of a game in which the line play had been rougher than the Irish were accustomed to, Cheeley fell on Steve Juzwik on a play directly in front of the Notre Dame student section. The students didn’t stop to ponder whether the injury was intentional or not, but took up the cry of “88” and they chanted, screamed and jeered that particular set of numerals until the Irish had racked up four retaliatory touchdowns in rapid succession. Pivotal in turning a contest between two fairly matched teams into a rout of the Illini, the “88” incident was the occasion for a rise in student spirit that went to inspirational heights and hovered there until the end of the season.
Illinois started the contest like a possible winner, but the superiority of their attack was short-lived. After an exchange of punts, Don Griffin intercepted one of Angelo Bertelli’s passes and was run out of bounds on Notre Dame’s 43-yard line. A series of forward passes followed which gave Illinois the opening touchdown.
Late in the quarter the men of Leahy started on their first goalward jaunt. A pass from Bertelli to Dove, a tackle smash by Evans and a nice gain at right end by Bertelli brought the ball to the Illinois 12 yard line. There Juzwik
took the fall from a reverse play and went out around the left end all alone to score standing up.
Notre Dame struck twice in the second period. A Bertelli pass to Bolger gave the Irish a first down on the Illini 13, from where Bertelli fired a shot to Juzwik in the end zone. Just before the half, Evans split right guard for the third six-pointer. Juzwik converted; Notre Dame led 21 to 7.
Illinois came back strongly in the third quarter and went 65 yards on a sustained drive for a touchdown, with the backs scampering through to the Irish secondary and the Illini line viciously clearing the path for central onslaughts by Good and Pfeifer. The Irish plugged along with steady but small gains. Then came time for No. 88’s prominent entrance into the contest. The Irish squad heard the screams of revenge from the grandstand and they answered them. Bertelli’s aerial arm pointed deep in Illinois territory and scored two direct hits on Dippy Evans who ran for touchdowns after catching each projectile. The first Bertelli bombshell screamed 40 yards.
Striving desperately to make a better showing, Zuppke’s charges flipped passes all over the field, one of which was intercepted by Ziemba, who was pulled down three yards short of the goal. Evans then plunged for the touchdown.
Then with three seconds of play remaining, Creevy hurled the pigskin 40 yards to Miller, who scampered over for the final tally.
The Fighting Irish ran up the statistics as well as the score. They gained 128 yards to 16 rushing, and 233 yards to 87 on forward passes.
An aroused, bone-crushing Irish line tears a truck-sized hole in the Illinois forward wall to send fleet-footed Dippy Evans into the wide-open spaces of the Notre Dame stadium as the Irish gridders respond to the thunderous cry—"88"— "88"!	•	'
9
Notre Dame 0 — Army 0
With student spirit on the upsurge as a result of the Illinois rout, the Fighting Irish scrambled through the cheering students at the Circle to make their way to a special train to New York. Speeding eastward, they carried the appeal for revenge on a Cadet eleven that in 1940, with the exception of Steve Juzwik’s brilliant touchdown run from a pass interception, had drubbed all the fight out of a high-riding Irish eleven.
A hard rain that began falling in New York on Friday night virtually washed out all these appeals and dampened the spirits of both Cadet and Irish elevens. Saturday afternoon the rain was still falling as seventy-six thousand onlookers huddled under umbrellas and newspapers, and watched the two teams wade up and down the field for two hours.
It was a fierce, hard-hitting' game in which both teams were forced to the monotonous procedure of two or three attempts for muddy gains on the line and then a punt. It was Army’s Mazur who kept the Irish sliding in the mud with his seemingly-impossible end runs and amazing cutbacks over the line and his booming punts. Early in the first quarter, Mazur slid around left end behind an army of blockers to the Irish 25. From there Maupin and Hatch moved the ball to the Notre Dame 10 where, despite the mud, the Irish line braced and threw the Cadets back. Harry Wright tried to shake Evans or Juzwik loose around the ends, but Army’s ends could not be taken out of play. Evans’ kicks were long but Mazur’s were longer, and the Irish were forced to do most of their mudding in their own back yard. Late in the second quarter the slimy pigskin rolled off the side of Mazur’s foot on the Army 45. Notre Dame took it up there and with Juzwik sweeping the ends
. . . Badin Bog with a stadium around it and Juzwik, No. 15, in the background stopping Mazur on the ND 45-yard line for no gain after the flashy Cadet had intercepted Ber-telli's pass. In the foreground Brutz, 73, escapes from mudhole on all fours while Angelo gets mud-massage by Army. tackle.
and Evans ploughing for short gains at center, moved to the Cadet 17 where the Army line closed in and the Cadets took the ball on downs.
With Evans and Mazur dueling with third down punts the two teams fought through the third quarter. The Irish went down to the Army 28 on the strength of Creighton Miller’s smashing gains at tackle and Bill Earley’s slashes inside the right end. There the Notre Dame backs lost their footing and Army took over the ball. The Cadets sent Ralph Hill inside the Irish right end and Hatch over guard to bring the ball down to the Irish 25; there the holes at end and guard closed and the Cadets made big ripples as the Irish forwards cut them down.
With less than two minutes left in the fourth quarter the Irish machine churned over the Army line but the ticking seconds sped by while the Army line gave ground slowly. On the Cadet 20 yard line with seven seconds of play remaining, Harry Wright, moved out on the right wing along with Steve Juzwik and Angelo Bertelli for another try at the Boston College famous triple-flanker, the last chance for the Irish to come out of the Cadet clutch untied and undefeated. The muddy ball came up from center with a wobbling spin, and sailed through Evans’ arms. He chased it, picked it up, evaded two tacklers only to be tackled and splashed out of bounds as the game ended.
10
Notre Dame 20 — Navy 13
National defense was of secondary importance to Angelo Bertelli as he pitched bombshells into the eager arms of Evans, Early, Dove, and Juzwik to sink the Navy before a capacity crowd of 65,000. Rambling, splintery Baltimore Stadium was the scene of the event which saw a fighting Notre Dame eleven on the rebound after its debacle in New York with the Army, pass and run to a 20-13 victory over a previously unbeaten and untied Navy juggernaut. More than 400 Notre Dame students, taking advantage of the student trip, combined with the Notre Dame band and the predominantly Irish cheering section in the stadium to drown out the regimented yells of the Middie cheering section and to cheer the Irish to victory.
Lengthy, brilliant runbacks of interceptions by Evans and Juzwik combined with the passes of Bertelli to bring about the initial downfall of the Tars. Bertelli’s passing was the cause of four of the five touchdowns registered, one of these accomplished by Navy on Cameron’s interception in the flat and his subsequent dash to the goal line.
Notre Dame started scoring early in the second period when Steve Juzwik intercepted Bill Busick’s pass on his own 15 yard line and then hiked the ball back 49 yards into Navy territory. On the next play, Bertelli formed his cordon of blockers around himself and fired a pass to Earley who was bounced down on the Tars’ two-yard stripe after a gain of 42 yards. Dippy Evans shot over for a touchdown on the next play. Juzwik converted and the score read 7-0.
Navy’s tally came a short time later, when Clark, after bucking into the line for sizeable gains of four and five
yards, raced 20 yards to the Notre Dame 30. Then he faded back to the 45 yard line and hit Zoeller with a pass on the Irish seven yard stripe. After two tries into the line had netted small gains, Clark punched the ball over for the score. Leonard’s placekick knotted the score. The Irish lost little time getting back their lead. Bertelli passed to Wright and Bolger, advanced the ball to the Navy 18 yard stripe. Bertelli threw straight down the middle to Juzwik who caught it on the 15 yard line and bucked through the Tars for a touchdown. His try was wide and the Irish led 13-7 at halftime.
Early in the third period came Bertelli’s seemingly foolhardy pass from his own 16 yard line which Cameron snatched, galloping 35 yards to again knot the score.
Notre Dame’s clincher came in the fourth period when Bertelli’s pass to Evans put the ball on the Tar eight yard line from where Dippy went over for a touchdown. Juzwik’s kick was good. From here to the gun, the Irish put a damper on their own passes while trying to halt the plunges of Clark of the Navy. His first threat carried clear to the Irish six yard line and his pass into the end zone was intercepted by Crimmins for a touchback. The second threat engineered by Clark was broken up by Kovatch and Barry on the Irish 35 yard line. Both of these men played brilliantly; Kovatch, tackling Clark for a twelve yard loss, hit him so hard that he had to be removed from the game, and a few plays later Barry broke through to toss Busick for a nine yard loss to dampen the spirits of the 4,000 white capped Middies in the stands.
Bob Dove is grounded on the Southern California 43-yard line after snagging a 14-yard pass from Chief Irish Bombardier Bertelli.
11
Notre Dame 7 — Northwestern 6
Playing heads-up football and taking advantage of a break to shove over a quick touchdown, the Fighting Irish eked out a one point victory over the Northwestern Wildcats in Dyche stadium at Evanston. Badly bruised and shaken after the physical pounding they had received at the hands of a heavy Navy team only a week earlier, the Irish nevertheless combmed spirit and courage with the pitches of BerteUi and the “educated” toe of Steve Juzwik to beat practically the same Wildcat squad that had soundly thumped the Irish a year before by a score of 20-0. Before 47,000 fans who crowded the cement stadium to capacity, Angelo Bertelli cocked his right arm and threaded hard passes to Bolger, Wright, and Evans. Juzwik, who was designated by many writers as the “goat” of the 1940 debacle with the Wildcats, played one of the most remarkable games of his career both offensively and defensively.
There were no scores in the first half, neither squad having the chance to get a touchdown except when Haase, Wildcat end, allowed one of Graham’s passes to slip through his fingers which might, if he had held the ball, have given the Purple a chance for a score. It resolved more into a punting duel between Evans and Graham with neither team having a distinct advantage. It was in the third chukker that passes began to fly. The Irish had kicked out of bounds and the ball was put in play on the Northwestern 35 yard stripe. On the very first play Don Clawson fumbled on an attempted line plunge and Bernie Crimmins covered the ball for the alert Irish on the 36. Bertelli passed to Wright who was bounced out of bounds
on the Wildcat 17 yard line. Juzwik and Evans failed to get anywhere in attempted plunges through the tough Purple line. Then the lanky New Englander, Bertelli, rammed a pass down to the waiting hands of end Matt Bolger who took it on the two yard line and stepped over for the score standing up. Steve Juzwik’s all-important conversion from placement followed to give the Irish a seven point lead. The Wildcats fought back for their score without relinquishing the ball after Notre Dame kicked off. In seven plays Graham lugged the ball over right tackle for the Purple touchdown. The attempted conversion by Dick Erdlitz was blocked by Wally Ziemba and the Notre Dame fans in the stadium went wild with joy.
This ended the actual scoring, but twice in the fourth quarter the Wildcats had two chances to score. One came as they fought their way to the Irish 12 yard stripe when an attempted pass into the end zone was incomplete. Erdlitz was rushed in to try a field goal but the ball careened abruptly into the end zone short of the bars. After Evans had punted out to the Notre Dame 43, Graham heaved a pass to Motl on the 22 yard line. Graham fired another pass into the end zone, but Juzwik was there to intercept it and to thrill Irish fans with his runback to the 18 yard stripe. Then the Irish started their march. Bertelli passes were completed to Juzwik and Kovatch which carried the ball down to the Wildcat two yard stripe. However, the line proved too strong and the Irish lost the ball on downs on the one yard line. With but 30 seconds remaining in the game, Graham attempted two long passes which failed and the game was won for the Irish.
Notre Dame's quick take-off artist, flashy Dippy Evans follows determined Irish blockers through the center of a stubborn Northwestern line for eight yards.
12
Notre Dame 20 — Southern California 18
For the first time since the last team coached by Knute Rockne in 1930, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame went through a season without a defeat. In Notre Dame stadium playing before another capacity crowd of 56,000 people, the Irish were matched touchdown for touchdown but not point for point by a fighting, passing gang of Trojans who finally bowed to the Irish, 20-18. The Irish won not by the margin of two points after touchdown accomplished by Steve Juzwik but by the margin of blocking three attempted conversions, two placements and a pass, by the Californians. Angelo Bertelli, Evans, and Juzwik again held the spotlight but this time it also fell on the deeds performed by Ziemba, Kovatch, and Wright which kept the Irish in the unbeaten ranks.
The Trojans right at the very start looked as if they might score an upset. By way of an evil omen of tougher things to come, Harry Wright fumbled Heywood’s opening kickoff but recovered on the Irish 19 yard line. On the second scrimmage play Dippy Evans’ quick kick was blocked by Heywood and the Trojans took over the ball on the Irish 33 yard line. Eight plays later with fourth down, Robertson shot a pass to Heywood who fell in the end zone for a touchdown. Ziemba rushed through to block Bob Jones’ attempted placement. In the second period the Trojans were set back on their one yard stripe due to Evans’ fancy punting and an unnecessary roughness penalty. Heywood kicked out to the U. S. C. 29 from where Juzwik romped around left end for 23 yards to the 7 yard marker.
After two plays failed to gain, Hargrave and C. Miller were sent into the game. On a reverse from Miller, Evans plunged through right tackle for the score. Juzwik place-kicked the point to put the Irish into a lead which they never relinquished. The Irish got a break when Robertson fumbled and Evans recovered on the Trojans’ 45 yard line.
Bertelli passed to Bob Dove for gains of 19, 10, and 16 yards to put the ball on the Trojan 2 yard stripe. Juzwik put it across but his attempted place kick was low. The Irish now led by seven points. Southern California sparked by Bob Musick matched the touchdown in less than a minute. Musick pitched to Taylor for 22 yards, to Essick for 18, and to Bill Bledsoe in the end zone for the tally. Kovatch barged through the line to block Jones’ second placekick and Notre Dame led at the half, 13-12.
During the half-time ceremonies tribute was paid to Howard Jones, the former Trojan coach, who died last summer.
The first half of the third period was a punting duel. In the final four minutes of this period, Bertelli threw four times to get the final Irish score. The scoring toss was to Evans behind the line of scrimmage, the Dipper carrying 18 yards for the touchdown. Juzwik got the extra point and the Irish led 20-12. In the final period Paul Taylor shared some of the glory with Bob Musick when the southpaw evaded three Irish tacklers and pitched to Davis for 22 yards and a first down on the Notre Dame eight. Robertson plunged off tackle for the score. Since another attempt at conversion via placekick seemed futile in view of the past two attempts, Jones tried a pass but it was knocked out of the receiver’s hands in the end zone by Bertelli.
Captain Paul Lillis, Steve Juzwik, Bob Maddock, Kovatch, Crimmins, and Jim Brutz in their last game for Notre Dame performed brilliantly. Bertelli, with two more years, attempted 21 passes and completed 13 for 156 yards. One was intercepted by Robertson who ran it back to the Irish 20 in the first period. Bertelli’s season record is 123 throws and 70 completions for 1,027 yards, a phenomenal record for a sophomore passer.
A determined Trojan forward wall fails to stop the rapier-like charge of Notre Dame's brilliant defensive end, Johnny Kovatch, as he crashes through to smother the all-important point after touchdown.
13
MEMORIES OF NORTHWESTERN WIN HIGHLIGHT UNDEFEATED SEASON FOR IRISH GRIDDERS
plenty.” He said that Georgia Tech was a faster team as a unit than Southern Cal., though, and explained that the Georgia guard, Jordan, was the best lineman he had to handle.
Angelo Bertelli, whose passing was the sensation of the Notre Dame team liked the trip to the Army game and New York better than any other because he was only 150 miles from his home and many of his friends were down to see him play. “There is no one play that gave me any special thrill. My biggest moment came when that gun went off ending the Southern California game, making us undefeated for the year.” Flathmann of Navy de Correvont of Northwestern and Robertson of Southern Cal were the best players he had to face, in his opinion. However, he had a good word to say for Otto Graham, whose passing he respects very much. It might be more than a coincidence that a great passer respects a great passing attack; at any rate, Angy declares that Southern California had the toughest offense the Irish had to stop. “We never had to stop such fast backs and ends in any of our other games.”
Bob Maddock, who climaxed a brilliant senior year with a 60 minute performance against the Trojans, replied that he liked the trip to Atlanta. He explains this by saying it was the first one of the year, which is always a thrill; however, the main reason was probably the fact that the Georgia weather is more akin to that of his native California. Bob de Lauer of the Trojans was his first answer when asked which lineman stood out in his mind. After that, the field grew more populated with White of Indiana and Vitucci of Navy doing their best jobs against Bob. Hank Mazur stands alone in his mind as the best back he saw on the opposition. However, Bill de Correvont and the Trojans’ Robertson gained his respect. “I think the hardest game was against the Army” was his last statement which is verified by the statistics.
Maddock’s running mate at right guard, Bernie Crimmins had nothing but praise for the Northwestern crew. When asked which game he got the biggest bang out of, he replied without hesitating, “Northwestern banged me up the most with those big linemen and I also gained the most satisfaction from leaving Evanston victorious.” He continued to show his respect for the Wildcats when he named Zorich, N. U. guard, as his most worthy opponent. However, Bernie thought that Navy had the best back they faced in Howie Clark. “That boy did the best job of any one against us, with de Correvont and Hirsch coming fast behind.”
Crimmins, whose versatility continued this year by his moving to a third posi-14
tion in three years, expressed his first love as playing guard, rather than the backfield where he played in his first two years on the varsity. He explains this by saying, “Backfield men don’t get to play as much as linemen. I like the line, because I was able to play nearly the whole game at guard.”
“Yes, I’ll have to admit that I am glad the season is over, because I got pretty well banged up, but I would like to come back next.year and face some of those teams on that swell schedule the Irish have mapped out.”
Jim Brutz, Irish left tackle and an all-American prospect, declared that he would like to play another nine-game schedule. “I was pretty lucky with injuries this year and am still in good shape. In fact our fine condition is the reason the Irish were winning all the time. In every game, we were in better shape when the second half started than the other team was.”
“That southern hospitality was swell down in Georgia. Yessir, and they have some nice Georgia peaches too,” replied the amiable orator with a gleam in his eye.
“Northwestern was the toughest team we had to face with that big line and bunch of backs, de Correvont was great. However, Southern California showed us
Leahy registers enthusiastic approval of Irish touchdown
“My biggest moment came when we had possession of the ball in the Southern California game with only 10 seconds to play. It meant that nothing could keep us from an undefeated season. After all, no one play is as big as an undefeated season.”
Bob Dove, junior end, who climaxed a great year by a brilliant offensive and defensive game against the Trojans, agreed with Brutz that the Southern California game was his biggest day. “As for the trips, that one to New York is the best because we were able to stay until Sunday, while on the others, we had to leave Saturday night.” Bob believes that the hardest opponents he had to face were Bobby Robertson of the Trojans, Hank Mazur, star punter of the Army, and Harry Clark of Navy. Flathmann was about the best lineman he faced. “Northwestern was about the best unit we played with all those substitutes and that big line.”
“Beating Northwestern was my biggest day,” exclaimed the ever ready Steve Juzwik, whose tongue is as flexible as his piston like legs. “No special play, just beating those boys.” Steve mentioned Robertson and Mazur as two of the best backs they faced, but when we mentioned de Correvont, he replied, “Northwestern was playing over their
heads you know. But he was good that day at least.' As for Bauman, he’s good but he wasn’t the Bauman that faced us last year.”
MADDOCK, BRUTZ AND EVANS ARE IRON IRISHMEN;
SQUAD STAMINA IS TRIBUTE TO FINE CONDITIONING
When we mentioned de Correvont, Dippy Evans, chided, “Hey, are you from Northwestern?” This showed his great love for the Evanston school coincided with that of Juzwik. Flathmann was the best lineman either Steve or Dip could remember facing. “Two hundred and sixty pounds is a lot of lineman.” Robertson was among the better backs as were Hank Mazur and Clark, which made it nearly unanimous for the whole Irish team.
When the possible All-American pair were approached as to any one play that stood out, they looked at each other with a grin and yelled, “Screeno!” They meant that screen play in which Juzwik scored against the Navy when the opposing line was turned loose on Bertelli who flipped the ball over their_heads to Steve. Juzwik, with six man interference, had little trouble going the route for the score.
N. U. vs. N. D., a Family Affair
Johnny Kovatch, senior end who fought it out with Murphy most of the
year for a starting berth, explained that his biggest game was against the Navy which was his first starting assignment. “Those boys were tough, and it being my first time at starting, I naturally got a kick out of it. However, it was swell to go up to Evanston and beat those Wildcats. You know my cousin played with them a few years ago and now we’re even. In fact I’m ahead of him, ’cause they never beat us when he was there.”
—Don Murphy
... the climax came in a blaze of glory.... '
With the first team carrying the brunt of the burden, Notre Dame’s gridiron technique changed this year from previous custom wherein whole teams replaced each other. During the past seas
Left to right: Leahy, Cerney, McKeever, McArdle, Druze
on a number of Irish warriors played the whole 60 minutes, while the second team watched from the sidelines.
Bob Maddock was the iron man of the squad with 413% minutes of combat while Dippy Evans’ 409% minutes at fullback is just short of phenomenal when one considers his 170 pounds. Jim Brutz was the other 400-minute man with 406%. Angelo Bertelli gained a total of 393% minutes of competition which shows that he was valuable at
ail times and not just on passing, contrary to some opinions.
Such rugged records on the part of the Irish proves the fine condition in which the team was kept by the coaching
staff. Injuries were at a minimum because each player was in top physical shape when he entered the game. The record is truly a great tribute to Leahy and his competent assistants.
Student Spirit Hits New Peak
Precisely what correlation - exists between student spirit and Notre Dame’s first undefeated season in ten years is hard to determine, but throughout our whole schedule a new enthusiasm .pervaded the campus.
Prominent on the rising tide of spirit was the “88 incident” which swept the student body into a united front which lasted through the season.
The tide swelled with each victory but it was perhaps most apparent after the “low point,” if such it may be called, the 0-0 Army deadlock as the student body rose early on a misty morning to welcome the warriors home. From then on the flame swept through the remainder of the season; impromptu rallies, spontaneous decorations and rabid speculations -were features of this revival of student spirit.	;
The climax came literally in a blaze' of glory as Gene Schumacher, president of the Student Council engineered a highly successful old time rally in the parking lot the night before the Irish clinched their perfect record by trimming the Trojans.
15
COACHES AND UNDEFEATED IRISH TEAM RELAX AFTER A HARD, SUCCESSFUL SEASON
Notre Danie’s first undefeated season since 1930 has been completed and for the first time since they called spring practice in early March the powers behind the throne — coaches to you — can relax and receive congratulation they so well deserve. This being the first year as Notre Dame coaches for most of these men, they naturally have various new reactions to express regarding their new team and the season just completed.
Amid some 500 week-end congratulatory letters and wires received following the 20-18 Irish victory over Southern Caifornia, Head Coach and Athletic Director Frank Leahy took enough time out to praise the spirit and hard work of the Notre Dame 1941 varsity and the whole-hearted support and spirit of the entire student body as essential cogs in the success of the Blue and Gold on the gridiron:
“If ever a group of boys deserved an undefeated season,” Coach Leahy asserted, “these boys did. They fully deserved just what they got, and I’m very happy for their sake and for Notre Dame. The team spirit was wonderful all year. The boys worked very hard and they fought every inch of the way all season.”
It was a dream come true for Coach Leahy, since it was back in 1930, when he played tackle under Rockne, that the Fighting Irish boasted their last undefeated campaign. Shortly after this season was completed, Frank accompanied his old master to Mayo’s clinic, where Rock predicted that this same Leahy would one day become the greatest coach of all time. This prediction is well on its way toward becoming a reality, as a
Perfect protection — Bertelli to Juzwik!
glance at Leahy’s coaching record will reveal. The Rockne protege has just completed his 20th straight game without a defeat, and now boasts the amazing record of 28 victories and a tie in his three years as a head coach.
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, spoke for the administration when he congratulated the team, coaching staff, and student body for the grand showing made during their undefeated season.
The Irish backfield coach, Ed McKeever, like Leahy is no stranger at Notre Dame. McKeever won frosh numerals at Notre Dame in football and basketball in 1930 and returned briefly in the fall of 1931, then left to enter Rice Institute. He was too late for enrollment, however, and went to Texas Tech. It was here that he got his start in the field of coaching. The 31-year-old coaching expert has the distinction of having coached teams that participated in four straight bowl games: Texas Tech in the Sun bowl in 1938 and the Cotton bowl in 1939, Boston College in the Cotton bowl in 1940 and the Sugar bowl in 1941. Coach McKeever, who now faces the ordeal of at least two banquets a day, adds his word of congratulation to members of the squad:
“The 1941 varsity is a fine bunch of boys, and I am proud to have worked with them. Spirit, courage and determination possessed by the boys themselves combined to give them the undefeated season they so justly deserved.”
The man who did most of the scout
ing for Notre Dame this year as well as working with the freshman team, Bill Cerney, is the only holdover from last year’s coaching staff. It is he who is responsible for the discovery of the strength and weaknesses of Irish opponents, and the drilling of freshmen and reserves in the use of these opponents’ plays. It was Cerney who scouted Southern California in their game with Stanford a few weeks back, and he reports that in their game with the Irish Saturday the Trojans played the game only they were capable of playing with their varsity at full strength. He expressed his estimation of this year’s varsity as follows:
“I felt all along that this ball club is as fine a group of boys as you could ask for. It had a certain amount of experience, cohesive cooperation, an excellent determination to win at all times and a marvelous stick-to-it-iveness that could not be denied. I felt all along, also, that if we got by darkhorse Indiana we would not be beaten all yean We did get over this early season test, and the rest is history. The Navy, Northwestern, and Southern California games were to me merely anti-climaxes.”
End Coach Johnny Druze, who has left for his home in the East, played for three years under Frank Leahy as a regular on Fordham’s famous “Blocks of Granite” and played 60 minutes in almost every game Fordham played. Druze played 180 minutes in three years against Pitt, and the following year played for the Brooklyn Dodgers under Potsy Clark. The following spring Leahy hired him as coach of ends at Boston College, the post he fills at Notre Dame.
Rounding out the “coaching staff of the year” is Line Coach Joe McArdle, who has also departed for his home in the East. McArdle, like Druze, played at Fordham under Frank Leahy. Following graduation in 1935, Joe worked as an advertising solicitor and promotion man for the New York World Telegram. He moved to Boston College as coach of centers and guards when Leahy became head coach there in 1939. “Cap Bligh,” as McArdle is known among the players, believes in plenty of contact work with his players during every practice session.
Representing the football squad, Captain Lillis expresses thanks to the student body for their spirit and support throughout the season, and the telegrams sent to the teams by various halls before the games:
“My teammates all worked together constantly,” praises Captain Lillis, “and the student body has been ever behind the team. The biggest thrill I have ever
16
received was our undefeated season just finished. Thanks a lot for your support.”
Thus, with their worries over until next spring, the coaching staff and team alike can sit back and recall a job well done — Notre Dame’s first undefeated season since Rockne.—Ray Donovan
Cheer Leaders Have Big
Part in Team’s Success
The cheer-leader’s job is no easy task. It is his job literally “to shake down the thunder from the sky.” He must make the team hear the students not only at the pep rallies, but also at the football games on the field when the “chips are down.”
But at Notre Dame, the cheerleaders do not stop with the close of the football season. You will find them at the basketball games, too. And under Ted MacDonald this year’s Notre Dame cheerleaders can boast that they have been the best team of yell-men in the past four years. Those signs with the cheers printed on them were new this year. The flashy gold pants and white sweaters added much color to the outfit. The boys even tried using themselves as Clashmore Mike’s hurdles at one game. Mike, however, had other ideas and the next game was right back to his traditional track hurdles.
Other cheer-leaders aiding MacDonald are: Joe Sheedy, Paul Toland, Bill Herzog, Joe Tracy, Dave Curtin, Bob Galvin, and Tony Early. These boys wish to express their sincere thanks to the students for the fine cooperation they have shown, and also to the faculty for the many privileges granted them so far this year.
Uncle Sam’s motto is “Keep ’em fly-in’.” Frank Leahy’s was and will be “Keep ’em winnin’.” The cheer-leaders’ is “Keep ’em yellin’.” As long as the boys
The gold-trousered lads that "kept 'em yellin'
stick to this motto and the students keep co-operating, Mr. Leahy won’t have to worry, and that goes for Mr. Keogan, too.—John C. Kirby
They're Talking About Us
“Notre Dame’s mighty football warriors achieved their undefeated season today, first since the 1930 Knute Rockne team, but they had the scare of their lives before it went into the record book.”—Associated Press
“A grid campaign inaugurated last March came to a rousing finish here Saturday as Notre Dame realized its first unbeaten season in 11 years. The Irish topped off a sensational season with a 20 to 18 victory over Southern California’s Trojans before 56,000 delirious fans.—Jack Ledden
South Bend Tribune
*>
“The fighting Irish have fought their way to an unbeaten record for 1941, the first year under the coaching of Frank Leahy, worthy successor to the immortal Knute Rockne.
“In a spectacular battle of the air, Notre Dame managed to eke out a two-point victory over the Trojans of the University of Southern California, 20 to 18, today before 56,000 persons who filled every seat in Notre Dame’s Memorial Stadium.”
—Edward W. Cochrane
Chicago Herald-American
“Notre Dame today achieved its first undefeated season in 11 years by whipping Southern California, 20 to 18, in as spectacular a game as this thrill studded series has produced.
—Arch Ward
Chicago Tribune
Editor’s Note: The following is a statement graciously contributed to the SCHOLASTIC by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, concerning the 1941 football season and team.
Naturally, the members of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics are all proud of the splendid football season just ended, for which Coach Leahy and his staff and the squad of players deserve the highest credit. From the very beginning of their organization hard, intelligent work by the coaches and players, and a constant display of Notre Dame spirit by all, including the student body, brought the results. I don’t know of any other coach in America who deserves more fully the congratulations which Frank Leahy is receiving today from all over the country.
Both on and off the gridiron the coaches and members of this year’s team have brought glory to Our Lady. God has blessed. the squad by preserving all from any serious injury, for which we are deeply thankful.
“That was a close one between Notre Dame and Southern Cal, too close for comfort as Notre Dame supporters viewed it in the closing minutes of the fray.”—John Kieran
Neto York Times
❖
“Notre Dame, compiling under Frank Leahy the best record of any Irish team since Rockne’s day, won another hair-raiser from Southern California, 20-18, on the passing of Angelo Bertelli, and the running and place-kicking of Dippy Evans and Steve Juzwik. Bertelli completed 13 of 21 tosses for 156 yards, for a season’s total of 70 in 123 for 1,027 yards despite being on the spot each Saturday.”—Bill Boni
Associated Press
♦
“Yesterday was a big day for our old friend Frank Leahy. The amazing young Notre Dame coach saw his second undefeated season in succession completed when his Irish edged the Trojans of Southern California, 20 to 18. That, naturally enough, calls to mind the fact that, only a week before, the Irish got the best of Northwestern by a 7 to 6 margin.”—Al Hirshberg
Boston Post	-
17
Athletic Board Definite on
Stand: No Bowl Games
The Notre Dame faculty board hi control of athletics, at its regular meeting last night, reiterated the University policy banning post-season games, it was announced today by the Bev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the board.
“Continued written and spoken speculation concerning whether Notre Dame might accept an invitation to a postseason game influenced the board to crystallize these rumors by going on record with a formal statement that Notre Dame will not participate in any such contest,” Father Cavanaugh said.
“As badly as the Universty needs funds in these uncertain times,” he added, “the board agreed that the hardship of added training would be unfair to the coaching staff and the players who have already done a splendid job in finishing the season undefeated. Acceptance of a post-season game invitation would represent a departure from our old and consistent policy of improving academic and athletic standards.”
Father Cavanaugh has disclosed that the Fighting Irish played before approximately 426,000 fans in 1941, as compared with 504,500 last year. Lack of capacity for the George Tech and Southern California sellouts cut the total about 50,000. Father Cavanaugh added that, “This year’s net receipts should be considerably less than those of 1940, despite five sellouts.”
STATISTICS PROVE IRISH SUPERIORITY
IN THE AIR, ON LAND, AND FROM THE TOE
On the face of cold statistics, it is hard to see how the Fighting Irish could be anything but the number one team of the nation, with men scoring 3 points a minute, compiling punting averages of 49 yards a try, and passing percentages of 1.000.
No, we aren’t kidding. Tom Miller, sophomore end, played four minutes of football with Leahy’s boys and scored two touchdowns to average three points per minute. Creighton Miller, adding to the already famous Miller name at Notre Dame, kicked four spirals during the season to average 49 yards a try. Dick Creevy sauntered into the Illinois game and hurled a pass to Miller for a touchdown on his only attempt. You can’t ask for finer records than that and they say “figures don’t lie.”
Angello Bertelli, whose mighty pitching arm kept the Blue and Gold on top all year, did a perfect job of kicking precious extra points, converting three for three. However, Steve Juzwik was the master at this, booting 13 one-pointers.
Dippy Evans, junior fullback, was the leading scorer with 67 points, while Juzwik counted 61. The only lineman who counted points was Wally Ziemba, who was credited with downing a Carnegie back for a safety.
Creighton Miller carried the pigskin
23 times for 183 yards; an average of nearly 8 yards a try. However, Evans’ average of 6.9 for 69 attempts, and Juz-wik’s 6.7 for 56 tries, proved the most consistent performances of the Irish squad.
Notre Dame outrushed its opponents, gaining 1282 yards to 600. On passing, Bertelli’s 1028 yards on 70 completions accounted for half of the Irish total of 2494 yards by air. The opposition was held to 1280. Evans was the most consistent punter, booting 66 of the 85 Irish kicks for an average of 39 yards a shot. The team average was 36. Steve Juzwik was Bertelli’s favorite receiver of his passes, catching 17 bullets for 305 yards, while Bob Dove’s 15 completions for 187 yards was closest to Juzwik.
1942 Schedule
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at N. D.
Oct. 10—Stanford at N. D.
Oct. 17—Wisconsin at Madison
Oct. 24—Illinois at Champaign
Oct. 31—Navy at N. D.
Nov. 7—Army at New York
Nov. 14—Michigan at N. D.
Nov. 21—Northwestern at N. D.
Nov. 28—So. Calif, at Los Angeles
COMPLETE SUMMARY OF GAME STATISTICS
PLAYER and POSITION	RUSHING				FORWARD PASSING						TOTALOFFENSE		RECEIVING		INUETURNSg PUNTING					PUNT RETURNS		ICO. RETURNS		SCORING				
	Timet Carried	Yard* Gain	Yard* Lots	Net Gain	No. AH.	No. Comp.	Had Inter.	Yards Gain	Yards Lou	Net Gam	Total Plays	Net Garn	No. Caught	Yards Gain	No. Infer.	Yard* Return	1 Times Kicffed	Yards Kicked	Had Blocked	Number Returns	Yards Return	Number Returns	Yard* Return	Touchdowns	C'vert Aft.	Cvert* Made	Retd Gdals	Points
Bnrtilli	41	116	60	56	122	70	10	1028	1	1027	164	1083			1	0						1	17	0	3	3	0	3
Juzwik	101	432	56	376							101	376	17	305	3	29				23	290	1	20	8	19	13	0	61
Warner	24	101	15	86	IE	6		0 2		0 96	0	^11 96	142	469	9	132	2	57	66	2569	1	9	106	9	206	11	1	1	0	67
											39	182					13	403						0	2	1	0	1
Earley	30	92	41	51							30	51	5	106	3	51				2	13	1	21	2.	0	0	0	12
C. Miller	59	206	23	183							59	183					4	197						1	0	0	0	6
Murphy													13	130										1	0	0	0	6
Kovatch													3	41								1	13					
I Wright													9	108	2	29						2	18					
McBride															2	0												
Bargrave															1	7						6	61					
Patten																						1	, 9					
Crimmins															4	12												
Hogan	10	28	13	15	7	3	1	59	0	59	17	74			1	0	2	42	21					1	2	0	0	6
H. Creevy	3	19	0	19	1	1	0	41	■ 0	41	4	60												Q	1	1	0	1
T. Killer	1	1	0	1							1	1	?,	68										2	0	0	0	12
Dove													IS	187								-		1	0	0	0	6
Bolger													8	135										1	0	0	o	6
Ashbaugh																is					1_	1							
Laiber															_L.	3												
Biordan															1	5												
McWeill	6	15	0	15							6	15																
Maddock															1	18												
Zienba															2	51						saf<	ty					2
Bruts																				1	0							
Teen Totals	416	1559	277	1282	147	81	13	1224	12.	1212	563	2494	81	12^	25	_2I5	_B5_		1	43	480	15	295	28	28	19	0	ASS
Opp. Totals	395	1032	432	600	141	48	2E	680	0	680	536	1280	48	684	13	207	94	3511		39	390	21	401	10	10	4	0	64|
18
ADMINISTRATION
FR. O’DONNELL DEDICATES SOUTHERN CAL GAME
FACULTY PORTRAITS
“Today Notre Dame salutes her sons in the armed forces of our country— chaplains, soldiers, sailors, and marines —wherever they may be. She does so with the knowledge that they will measure up to their responsibilities in accordance with her cherished tradition of patriotism. She also remembers her six sons who have already made the supreme sacrifice.
“When the unlimited national emergency was declared, the University, as always, pledged her full cooperation. She immediately placed her facilities at the disposal of our government and, among the several enterprises of a defense nature now in operation on the campus, she takes particular pride in the Naval R.O.T.C. unit encircled around this flag. The twin virtues of religion and patriotism are well established at Notre Dame.
“Yet, while participating in the defense program, Notre Dame prays that our country be spared the horrors of war and that Divine Guidance be given to the chief executive and Congress during this critical period. Notre Dame firmly believes in spiritual defense as well as the much needed defense of our shores.
“In dedicating this game to our sons
Prof. Langwell Elected
Prexy of Vincentian Bureau
Mr. Earl F. Langwell, professor of French and head of the department of modern languages at the University, was recently elected president of the Vincentian Service Bureau of South Bend.
The Vincentian Service Bureau, a social agency, is a member of the Community Chest and assists in the relations between Catholic parishes and organized relief. It also acts as a clearing house for many of the activities of the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, the president of which is always a member of the board of directors, as is the vice-president of the University.
The Rev. W. Edward Sweigart, head of the Associated Catholic Charities of the Fort Wayne Diocese, is also a member of the board of directors and in this way the local organization is affiliated with the diocesan group.
in the service, Notre Dame also pays her tribute to her traditional football rival, the University of Southern California. For the first time since the relationship began, she misses a familiar face in the personnel of the California squad. An intimate bond existed between Howard Jones and our own Knute Rockne. And now Howard is dead. He stood for the best in sport, and he was always the Christian gentleman. We hope that he is at rest with the Master. Rockne and Jones were sterling Americans who contributed their share to the training of American youth.
“And so let the game begin in the presence of a host of followers of both teams in this modern amphitheatre of wholesome struggle. And although dark days may come to our beloved country, let a silent prayer well up in our hearts, as the Star Spangled Banner is played, that God may protect America, possessed of a Christian heritage, and dedicated to the principle of liberty in a land or brave men and strong women.”
With these measured and solemn words, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., dedicated the game between Notre Dame and the University of Southern California last Saturday.
The late Mr. Eugene Payton, professor of law in the College of Commerce for many years, was one of the founders of the Vincentian Service Bureau, and its first president. Dr. E. J. Cain is the retiring president.—J. H. Johnston
Ex-Student Exhibits Art
Shown in the six-man display of paintings, ceramics, and sculpture in the University art galleries held recently was the water color exhibit of a former student. The artist, Samuel Hornsey of Wilmington, Del., was a student in architecture in 1921 and 1922.
His water colors show a great deal of experimentation in technique. He achieves the delicacy of Japanese paintings in some instances, using transparent and earth colors to lend unusual brilliancy to his pictures.
Some of his larger sketches have been compared to the water colors of Whistler and Sargent.—Tom Clemens
This week, Faculty Portrait spotlights the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., schol
ar, teacher and handball player extra-
ordinary.
REV. THOS. BRENNAN
Father Brennan is indeed a scholar. H e received his master’s degree at Notre Dame, studied at the Gregorian University in Rome and there received his degree as doctor of philosophy; again he studied at the An
gelico College in Rome and in 1929 attained the degree of doctor of sacred theology.__one of the most difficult of all degrees to attain. After teaching philosophy at the University of Portland, Portland, Ore., for two years, he came to Notre Dame and has taught on our. campus since 1931.
While a student at Notre Dame, Father Brennan became an expert handball player and it is doubtful if there is a man on the campus who can defeat him in a set of games today. The young man became a success on the fairways as well, and at one time won the faculty golf championship. In his senior year, this capable athlete was captain of his baseball team and although he was not one of Notre Dame’s “star” football players, he learned enough about football to be a tremendously interesting person when conversation recoils about games of both the past and the present. Any time that you are looking for a worthy sports session with an intelligent person, Father Brennan is your man. No matter what you want to talk about, Father Brennan will hold up his end; if it is sports so much the better. Many cold Saturday afternoons will find Father Brennan tramping to or from a hunting trip. Or you may catch his distant form crouching down on St. Mary’s Lake, fishing through a hole in the ice.
Seniors on the fourth floor of Sorin don’t become excited any more when they hear the rather loud and repeated thumps echoing from his room. It just calls for the remark, “Well, Father Brennan is again treating someone to the finer points of cribbage.
And Father Brennan is a driver in class. He is on the hit parade of the
19
faculty portrait this week, but you’ll be a lucky man if you’re not on his hit parade. Father Brennan’s class is one room which has its wear on the end of the seats and not on the backs.
The typical scene: A youth stands dumbfounded at the blackboard scratching his head sadly with a short stump of chalk. In the air there is a tension, and only the soft pad of Father Brennan’s shoes can be heard shuffling along the aisle and Father Brennan’s sharp voice repeating to each and every youngster, “Come on there boys. Whose is this ball game? Let’s see a little pitching there; let’s see a little pitching.” Then suddenly louder, “Hey there St. Mary’s, what do you know about this?”
Silence.
Then again, “Come now, follow the ball! Whats the matter? Forget your tongue today?”
Silence.
Then in a soft voice, “What about you, boardman?”
Very loud now: “What is this? I’ve never seen such a class of numbskulls.” Glaring up at the still dumbfounded lad at the board, and raising his fingers and his voice in the umpire’s final and decisive tone, he cries, “Creeeevy in!.... Amatooooo out!” Amato is satisfied; Father Brennan is satisfied; Creevy is not satisfied._just scared.—Paul Carr
Slipstick Artists Will Find Jobs Easily
Last week on one of those windy days, a stray sheet of equations, grabbed on to the end of a twister, wriggled through an upper window of the Engineering building and made a three point landing on our desk several minutes later. We deciphered it by holding it up to our mirror and shining our flashlight through it. It stated that, "there are more jobs awaiting graduate engineers than there are engineers at Notre Dame.”
We slapped on our ear-muffs and rode the same wind over to Mr. William Dooley’s Alumni Office. Mr. Dooley was not at all astounded by the news. He said that it was true and that this condition has been prevalent ever since the beginning of the national emergency. “It is more crucial this year,” he went on, “for two reasons. First because production has been stepped up tremendously, and secondly because there are 30 less students in the graduating class this year than there were last year. The ’41 class drew 80 sheepskins. The boys of ’42 have a potential 50.”
Mr. Dooley also said that the greatest demand was for graduates of the Aeronautical, Mechanical, Metallurgical and Chemical schools. “They will easily be able to find positions in research and
20
in actual application of the theories they have learned at Notre Dame.”
—Roy Grumbine
Lloyd Attends Launching
Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller at the University, represented Notre Dame in Newport News, Virginia, last week at the launching of the battleship U. S. S. Indiana. Mr. Lloyd left Indianapolis on a special train carrying the official party headed by Gov. Henry F. Schricker.
Mrs. Lewis Robbins, daughter of Gov. Schricker, christened the new battleship which was launched at high tide, 10:53 a.m. A tour of the shipbuilding docks was arranged for the Indiana delegation.
Agricultural Chemist Speaks
Dr. Henry R. Kraybill, of the University of Chicago, outstanding authority in the field of agricultural chemistry, addressed the November meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame at 8 p.m. Tuesday. His subject was “The Chemistry and Utilization of the Soybean.” The address was preceded by a dinner in the Notre Dame dining hall.
Smashing Atoms or. What
Happens to the Pieces
It is our firm belief that most people know nothing about atom smashers and such things, and care less. In a scientific age this is a deplorable state of affairs. To do our little bit to give Notre Dame a scientific shot in the arm, we submit
• • • more than 100,000 miles a second
the following explanation of the habits and peculiarities of atom smashers in general.
In the first place, an atom smasher is not an ultramicroscopic nutcracker. It does not smash atoms by squeezing, or crushing or grinding them. Atom smashers for the most part operate like machine guns, except that, instead of bullets, they shoot a little bit of a thing called an electron. What’s an electron? Well, nobody has ever seen one, but scientists will still bet any kind of money that they exist. In fact they give the dimensions, size and weight of one of these things, something like a tailor making a suit for a man he’s never seen. The weight of an electron is something to conjure with. If you can visualize the number 2 with 30 zeros in front of it, that’s about how much (in pounds) an electron weighs.
The atom smasher at Notre Dame is called, in scientific parlance, an electrostatic generator, that probably being the longest name they could think up. Its works are enclosed in a thick steel shell, in which is built up a pressure of about 150 pound per square inch or about ten times the normal pressure which we feel. This is necessary to prevent the terrific amount of electricity inside from discharging where it isn’t wanted. Think of eight million volts wandering loose around the campus!
A specially-constructed belt operating inside the tank picks up electrons in bunches, called electric charges, and carries them to a point at the upperend of the belt where they are removed and accumulate. After the belt has been
(Continued on page 42)
CAMPUS NEWS
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO STAGE 3-DAY WINTER CARNIVAL FOR CHARITY AFTER XMAS VACATION
The campus chambers of the local Knights of Columbus council were filled with smoke and people the Saturday morning before the Southern California football game. Visitors pushed in and out of the crowd, anxiously looking for game tickets. Football talk filled the air.
In a corner of the room somewhat isolated from the confusion sat Ed Reidy, Grand Knight of the council. He was watching the stir and bustle but his mind was not on football. His thoughts were of the Knights of Columbus Charity Winter Carnival.
Thinking out loud Reidy said: “It’s going to be the biggest thing that has hit the campus in a long time.” Reidy was probably right; if plans go as scheduled the Casey Winter Carnival will be the biggest thing that has hit the campus in a long time.
Tentative plans call for the three-day affair to begin some time before Lent. It will be staged in the Field House on a
Thursday night, Friday night, Saturday afternoon and will be climaxed by a big dance Saturday night in South Bend.
Friday night will be celebrity night. Plans call for a host of well-known entertainers to appear during the program that evening. The dance Saturday night will not be held in the Field House as there will be a basketball game there, but will be taken down town to cap off the week-end’s entertainment.
All proceeds of the affair will go to charity, Reidy said. The Carnival will be arranged somewhat in the following pattern:
Complete facilities of the Field House will be utilized. A stage will be erected where the basketball court now stands to provide continuous . entertainment throughout the three-day spectacle.
Spaced around the rest of the Field House will be various concessions, such as appear at regular carnivals. These concessions will be handled by various
campus organizations, for which contracts are now being drawn up. Reidy said the prizes to be given away will consist of things that will interest college men, such as clothes, sports equipment, etc.
According to present arrangements guests may leave the concession area at any time, go into the stands and watch the entertainment which will be provided throughout the show. Bands are now being approached to provide the music. A number of special shows will be held in the course of each evening, during which other activities will be suspended so that patrons may take in the presentation.
Reidy said a definite date will be set in the near future. The list of complete plans, concessions and entertainment will also be released as soon as preparations have been completed.
"Mama" Clark Supplies Food For Hungry Casey Members
“Mama, where are those sandwiches I heard about?” “Mama, let’s have a little more coffee?” “Mama, when are-you going to serve . . . ?” These are just a sample of what one may hear around
J. J. “Mama” Clark, M.C.A.
the Knights of Columbus chambers these days, for the Knights have nicknamed their house committee chairman, John Clark of Walsh Hall, “Mama,” and given him the degree of M.C.A. (Master of Culinary Arts.)
“Mama” Clark has the difficult task of satisfying the very particular and varying tastes of 200 Knights, meeting after meeting and, as one can well imagine, this is well nigh impossible for every member likes and wants something different. “Mama” sometimes has to send as far as Mishawaka for some of his delicacies.
But every member has agreed that this year the food at the meetings has reached a new high, and most of the credit can be given to Notre Dame’s “Mama” Clark. '
Washington Hall Jammed As "Vox Pop" is Aired
Ten million people tuned in on Notre Dame last Monday. They heard Paul Lillis, a football player, Angie Bertelli,
another football player, James J. “Mama” Clark, a cook, Jackson Chung, a Chinese aviator, Lew Bauer, a mechanical engineer, and Jack Whalen, a magician. All were Notre Dame students appear
ing on the weekly radio feature “Vox
Pop.”
The show went over the ether from Washington Hall, via WSBT, the South Bend station at 7 p.m., Monday evening. It got off with a rousing Notre Dame cheer and, before it went off the air, a Chinese rickshaw, a set of golf clubs, various items of clothing, Clashmore Mike, the Notre Dame Glee Club, and choice selections of pastry (among other things) had appeared on the stage. Topics discussed: Notre Dame spirit, endowment and football; girls, appetites, the Chinese War, commercial advertising, and Bromo Seltzer.	-
For fifteen minutes before the show got under way the 1,000 Notre Dame students who jammed Washington Hall were educated in the techniques of radio applause and silence. The show opened
21
with Capt. Paul Lillis who named Navy and Southern California as the two toughest teams the Irish faced this year, and then proceeded to Angelo Bertelli, star passer, and into the rest of the cast.
“Mama” Clark, chef for the Knights of Columbus, spoke on food and then launched a call for missing persons when he broadcast an appeal to a girl he met two and one-half years ago to write to him.
Jackson Chung, Chinese student in Engineering, a former aviator in the Chinese army, waged a political campaign to elect himself president of the
"DISSIPATED DUKES" WILL RACE OLLIE HUNTER TO DECIDE MATTERS PERTAINING TO TRAINING TABLE
There was considerable talk on fourth floor, Howard Hall, this week. Bets were being laid, arguments were expounded. Behind the controversy sat seven anxious men who have made a gentlemen’s agreement to run a race. The race, to be held next Sunday, is an attempt to decide a moral issue by physical means.
In short, the race pits six “Dissipated Dukes” against Ollie Hunter, star cross-
country man. The issue: Training table rules are not necessary in the conditioning of an athlete.
Upholding this proposition are six Howard Hall Juniors. They will race
Arnold Lunn Here, Talks of War, Spain, England
One of Notre Dame’s most widely known friends stopped over for a brief visit this week. Arnold Lunn, brilliant Catholic writer and lecturer, arrived on the wind-swept campus Monday from the East, having flown in from Europe recently.
Mr. Lunn had little to say regarding the Spanish press which has often been accused of misrepresenting the sentiments of the people. He did not deny, however, that the great majority of Spain’s millions are hoping and praying for a Nazi defeat. There are swarms of Germans in Spain today, and the nearer that Naziism approaches the Spanish Catholics, the more they realize that their only hope for a free Spain lies
Student Council (now occupied by Student Eugene Schumaker) and in the midst of his oratorical “excitement” slipped a bit of Chinese into his platform.
Chung was followed by Bauer who introduced Magician Jack Whalen who found a glass of Bromo Seltzer in the pocket of one of Vox Pop’s announcers. Even Coach Frank Leahy put in a word of greeting from Detroit, and added that Notre Dame would very likely refrain from participating in any “bowl” games.
The Glee Club contributed to the evening’s entertainment by singing the Victory March.
against the lone negative contender, Ollie Hunter, who recently ran second in the National Collegiate Cross-Country trot.
The race will be a six-mile affair. Each of the Dukes will run a mile; Hunter will run the course. The team line-up consists of: Dud Smith, Jack Reis, Bob Shade, Bob Sullivan, Walt Kravicec, and Bill Woods vs. Ollie Hunter.
The race will be held Sunday some time after Mass. Starting point will be the Field House, between Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips Halls.
The course goes through the back-yard of the Infirmary, around St. Joseph Lake to the Dixie Highway, along Du-jarie path around St. Mary’s Lake twice to the rear of the Library, and then to the Field House. Twice around this course will be the order of the day.
Full information and particulars can be gained from any resident of fourth floor, Howard Hall.
in an Allied victory. Lunn finds no end of satisfaction in the significant about-face by the British in Spain who supported the Leftist cause during the Spanish Civil War and bitterly opposed Lunn’s stalwart position on the side of Franco’s Rebels; these same Englishmen are now “frightfully thankful” for the Republican defeat, for they realize only too well that had there been a Red victory, Spain would have been the inevitable objective of the Hitler military machine after the fall of France, for Der Fuhrer would have been forced by both honor and the natural consequence of military science to destroy any enemy on his southern flank. The conquest of Spain, of course, would have enjoyed an obvious termination in the fall of England’s western Mediterranean watchdog, Gibraltar. General Franco, moreover, has (Continued on,page 34)
Dillon Hall's Trojan Horse
Wins First Prize in Contest
President Gene Schumaker of the Student Council announced early this week that the prize for the best decorated hall for last week-end has been awarded to Dillon Hall.
Horse beats cigarette
A committee of judges, headed by Bill Regan, of the Student Council, made the choice after having viewed the various displays of the competing halls. The final decision lay in the choice between Dillon and Morrissey Halls, both of which had excellent displays. Morrissey’s decorations were based on the theme “Modem Design,” showing how Notre Dame continued her winning ways—“On the land, in the air, and on the seats.” Dillon’s display was in the form of a giant Trojan horse, from which emanated “Fifth Columnists” easily identified as Notre Dame football players.
The final choice gave the winning prize to the latter hall, although it was felt that Morrissey was also deserving of something more than passing mention. In a Council meeting held late this week, the possibility of awarding a second prize to the latter was discussed. The prize to the winner will be a smoker, to be held at a later date.—Bob Kuipers
This Week's "Scholastic"
Biggest Ever Published
This week’s issue of the Scholastic is believed to be the biggest ever published in the 75 year old history of the publication. The issue runs to 44 pages, 12 over the usual 32 pages.
Five hundred extra copies have been printed for sale throughout the country because of the special football section contained in the issue. The total number of copies run off the Ave Maria presses counted 4600.
22
N. D. Men Now Bearing Arms In All Parts of U. S., In England, Canada and Iceland
Cut in stone above the Memorial entrance to Sacred Heart Church is the following inscription: “For God, Country and Notre Dame.”
In a year following the World Wai1 those words were fashioned above the entrance in memory of Notre Dame men who had died in the service of their country, particularly for those of the World War. These words have long been a symbol of Notre Dame and her men. But today they have an added meaning; other Notre Dame men are bearing arms for their country.
To the Alumni Offices in the Main Building every day come letters from all parts of the countiy, telling of Notre Dame men in the armed services of the United States. Today the number is nearing 400, and it is expected to pass this mark soon as new men enlist and other men report themselves to the office.
Largest mass of Notre Dame men are in the army—302 of them. Broken down the following figures are revealed.
Army:
Infantry, artillery, etc...228
Air Corps ................. 48
Medical .................   18
Cavalry .................... 8
Navy ....................   28
Naval Air Corps ..........  20
Marines ....................26
National Guard ...........   1
Other Notre Dame men are already fighting, some with the Royal Canadian Air Force, some with the R.A.F. Blunt statements on little yellow cards in Alumni Office files tell the following stories:
John Flynn, ’36, with Royal Air Force somewhere in England.
George Mach, ’36, RA.F., somewhere over England.
Lionel V. O. Smith, ’33,. Royal Canadian Air Force, observer bomber pilot.
Francis Dalton Slough, ’33, A.B., R.C.A.F. Occupation: flying officer.
Robert F. Sugnet, ’41, has joined the Royal Canadian Air Force and is in training in Canada for active duty overseas.
A casual glance through more of the files reveal the following occupations:
Stanley J. Partyka, ’38, 2nd Lieut. Iceland Marine.
Ensign George K. Petritz, ’38, U.S.-N.R. Patrol Cruiser, Asiatic Fleet.
Lt. Joseph W. Mehring ’38, U. S. Marine Reserve (on foreign duty).
More cards continue to bear out the interesting story of the occupations that some of the men are following .in the services: Bill Hawkes is assistant head of the Bureau of Aeronautics; John Hinkel, ’29, is a captain in the Bureau of Public Relations; Capt. Charles Lynch, ’28, is a military intelligence officer; Major Hugh F. McCaffery, ’27, is with the First Air Force; Fenton J. Mee, ’40, is with the United States Marine Parachute Battalion; James J. Sherry, ’36, is at a barrage balloon camp.
These are men who are now in the services. There are seven more, men who have served and are now dead. All were connected with air forces, and have fallen in places scattered throughout the United States. The roll of honor includes :
Capt. Richard S. Freeman. First Notre Dame man to die; he was a well-known army airman who at the time of his death was serving as commandant of Ladd Field, Fairbanks, Alaska. He was awarded the Mackey trophy for outstanding aircraft engineering in the 1939 army plane flight to Rio de Janeiro. He attended Notre Dame from 1925 to 1926, graduated from West Point in 1930.
John Patrick Ffrench. First Notre Dame graduate to die. A Navy aviator, he was killed last spring in a plane crash in Hawaii.
Joseph C. Foley, ’37, a graduate of the Arts and Letters College in 1937. He came from Dallas, Texas.
George N. Weber, ’35-’4O. A wing crumbled during a power dive near Brookfield, Texas. For two years he played left guard on the football team. He and Foley graduated together from Randolph Field, Texas, last summer.
John Von Harz, ’40, killed Oct. 24, near Corpus Christi, Texas.
Oliver P. Helland, ’39. He died Nov. 3, near Miami.
A Requiem High Mass was sung by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, at the request of the local Naval R.O.T.C., for the repose of the souls of the last two men.
Another Notre Dame man, Robert E. Fordyce of Chicago, a student here in 1938-39, died while returning from England when his ship was torpedoed. He was a ferry pilot and was included in a casualty list of 122 persons.
The call to arms has also depleted the ranks of faculty members. Heading the
list is former Notre Dame president, Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., now serving as military delegate.
Four Holy Cross priests are serving as army chaplains: Reverends Robert W. Woodward, George J. Welch, Joseph D. Barry, and Edward R. Fitzgerald.
Dugald C. Jackson, dean of Engineering, a major in the Coast Artillery Reserve, is on leave of absence doing special work at the Frankford Arsenal in Philadelphia. Prof. Benjamin DuBois, a teacher of French for 17 years, is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Canal Zone. Robert B. Riordan, former registrar, is a major, now serving at Purdue University. George B. Collins, professor of Physics, was called by the government to do special work at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Campus Quiz: "What Do You Think of English Majors?"
I was up to my neck in a pile of pink slips when Don Heltzel, one of the esteemed Scholastic editors, came in my room.
He said a few things which I won’t repeat and then asked, “Where is that story I assigned you several weeks,
ago? Get out and get it.”
As I doused my cigar, put the cat in the Cavanaugh corridor, and polished up a Willkie button, I wished that I was not on the Scholastic staff. Maybe I was too dumb for the Scholastic—maybe I should join Scrip? But I put these thoughts out of my mind as I started out in the night air to find students to interview on the question of the week, “What do you think about English majors?”
Opinions at that hour of the night were more scarce than lawyers in church, but here are a few of the choice ones.
“What do you think of English majors?”
Charles Montrie, commerce student from Monroe, Michigan; “I don’t know any. But you can say that I like English majors better than foreigners.”
Dave Higgins, mechanical engineer; “The only excuse for taking an English course is to teach the subject.”
' Al Sommer, A.B.; “English majors seem human. They have two eyes, nose, and teeth.”
George Schwartz, commerce student from Lehighton, Pa.; “English majors seem to be a pretty happy bunch of fellows and from my observation they are definitely ‘on the beam’.”
Carl Look, commerce student from Detroit, Mich.; “No student has the right
(Continued on page 33)
23
TEA DANCE HONORING GRID SQUAD TO BE HELD TOMORROW AFTERNOON AT THE INDIANA CLUB
A tea dance, somewaht laboriously named the Post-Football-Pre-Basketball Tea Dance, will be held tomorrow after-
noon, 2:30.
The sored
starting at
dance, spon-by the Band
and being promoted by Senior Jim Fayette, is being ar-ranged to honor the
ette said this week
that all monogram football players and their guests have been invited free. During the course of the afternoon autographed souvenirs will be presented personally by the football players, Fayette said.
The dance, to be run somewhat on the pattern of Jim O’Dea’s tea dances of last winter, is an effort to provide something for Notre Dame men to do during week-ends.
The dance will run from 2:30 p.m. until 5:30 p.m. Tax will be a dollar per couple.
Jack Malloy’s band will entertain and the affair will be held at the Indiana Club.
Labor Unions, President's War Powers, Occupy Wranglers
The Wranglers, Notre Dame’s honorary forensic society composed of Seniors, Juniors, and a few Sophomores, started off the new year with a banquet at the La Salle Hotel early in October as guests of Father Hoff, honorary member of the society. At this banquet three new members were received: Charles Paterson and Bill Talbot,
C. kearney Sophomores; and Don Casey, a Senior.
Since this banquet, meetings have been held every Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Seminar Room of the Law Building. At the first meeting Charles Kearney gave a paper advocating Federal control of labor unions. Each meeting thereafter has had some member give a paper of general interest: Stan Litizzette—“War Powers of the President,” Neil McCarty —“Bourgeois Mind,” and at the last meeting two weeks ago Bill Meier, president of the organization, spoke on “Nationalism.” No meeting was held last Thursday due to the holiday.
One feature of the club is that each Wrangler is coach of an interhall debat-
24
Young French Refugee
Speaks to N. D. Students
A young French refugee who served as a non-commissioned officer in the French Army during the war, participating in several battles, escaped from the Germans twice and is now a representative of a labor group, spoke to Notre Dame students last week in regard to pre-war France and the fall of France.
The Frenchman, who refused to give his name for publicity because of his mother living in occupied France, spoke to several groups of students assembled in class-rooms.
When questioned in regard to the defeat of France he said it was not due to the poor morale of the French people but to the inability of the General Staff to cope with a new type of warfare. He said one of the chief reasons was the staffs’ negligence in the intelligent use of tanks.
In regard to the future of France he said: “It is entirely dependent upon liberation from German rule.” Later he added that the French people “have par-
(Continued on page 33)
ing team. These debates are held every Monday and Tuesday in the Law Building. Ordinarily there are two debates held each of these days.
The Wranglers have for their moderator Prof. Frank O’Malley and have only one requirement for membership: each member must participate in at least one speech activity.—Bob S. Olivier
Priorities Worry "Dome" Editor Joe Hillebrand
Priorities are giving Dome man, Joseph Hillebrand the jitters. With the government closely guarding all essential materials Hillebrand, Dome editor, has to take what is left.
Said Hillebrand this week: “Our printers are getting about 60 per cent of the material they need. They get it in monthly allotments. That means we have to get our copy in every month. If we let it pile up it will not be taken care of.”
One of the materials affected by government priorities is paper, which Hillebrand is not worrying too much about as he has already contracted for the body stock, and now has to look only for end pages.
Type faces, the better makes of which formerly came from Germany, are also being sought after. Ink, photographer’s materials, zinc and copper are a few of the other materials in which shortages exist.
Program of Symphony Shaping Up Well
After two months of serious effort, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra has succeeded in building up a creditable repertoire from which Conductor Fredric Ingersoll plans to select the program for the first campus appearance of the orchestra this season. The exact date of the concert has not been chosen
JOHN sheedy but President John Sheedy has been thinking of the second week in December.
The excellent reputation of the Symphony was established last year by the well-received concert during Music Week, as well as by the fine assistance of Cecil Birder’s Gilbert and Sullivan production “The Gondoliers.” The progress of the orchestra since its reorganization a year ago has been due in no small part to the generous cooperation of the University administration, as evidenced recently by the purchase of a new string bass which was sorely needed to complete the balance of the orchestra.
Scheduled to appear as guest artists with the Symphony in their first concert, tenor Tony Donadio and soprano Mary Frances Kabel will be heard in the stirring duet “Viva il Vino” from Mascagni’s “Cavalleria Rusticana” and several other solo numbers. The selections of the orchestra will most likely include the first movement from Mozart’s 39th Symphony in E-flat Major, Debussy’s “Reverie,” Strauss’ “Emperor Waltz” in addition to several other works.
Professor Ingersoll is rather well satisfied with the progress of the orchestra to date, but the splinters of several batons around the podium indicate that the molding of a good orchestra is not the softest job in the world.
“There isn’t a symphony today worthy of the name that found perfection by sitting back and taking things easy,” insists the energetic conductor. “We’ve been working hard, and we’re going to keep on working and when we reach the perfection we’re trying to reach, we’ll set a date for a concert, and not lintil then.”
Nearly 50 per cent of families with children in college have incomes of less than $3,000 a year.
"Tex" Adams Reviews
Huxley's "Grey Eminence"
Any book by Aldous Huxley is an event of the surest importance in the literary world. His latest book—Grey Eminence—is doubly noteworthy in that it is his first full-length attempt at biography, and in that it has to do with an aspect of history to a great extent misunderstood.
Until now Huxley’s reputation has rested in general upon his novels and to a lesser extent upon his essays and belles-lettres. But with the appearance of Grey Eminence he has for the first time ventured and I think successfully with great promise into the field of historical biography.
Grey Eminence tells of the life of Father Joseph, the unofficial advisor and right-hand man of Cardinal Richelieu, and of the part he played in the tragic events of the Thirty Years War.
Father Joseph’s character is a riddle, though an intriguing one. He was a man of two seemingly incompatible natures which correspond with two nick-names Richelieu had for him—Tenebroso-Cav-ernoso or Father Joseph as the consummate diplomat; and Ezechiely or Father Joseph as the mystic, the devout churchman, the ascetic Capuchin. On the one hand he was the wholly disinterested man of God. On the other hand he was the willing finger of Richelieu ever helping to prolong the misery and devastation of the Thirty Years War to which Huxley traces World War I.
Grey Eminence is well worth reading if only to see how convincingly Huxley solves the enigma of Father Joseph’s dual personality. And it is likewise worth reading to get to know something of Huxley’s style — a casual, unstrained, straight-from the shoulder prose.
Perhaps the only technical weakness of the book is its tendency to wander from the main theme. Every now and then Huxley digresses, as in the chapters on mysticism and on politics and religion. But these two chapters are absorbingly interesting in themselves, and seem to indicate at least to me that Huxley is drawing close to Catholicism.
Grey Eminence it would seem will make more sure Huxley’s position as one of the great writers of our time.
—H. Claiborne Adams
For Freshmen Only
The first of the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s dances for Freshmen Only will be held this coming Sunday afternoon at Saint Mary’s. Busses will leave the Freshman quadrangle about 1:30 p.m. Sunday.
Gus Stuhldreher: He Would
Reorganize Warfare
If the Secretary of the Navy ever decides that United States merchant vessels should be armed, don’t be astonished to glance up at the iron-sailed clipper which cruises on the stone cornice of the Commerce Building and find it bristling with guns some fine morning.
Within the salty ranks of the Yacht Club is a military-minded old tar by the name of Stuhldreher who enlisted in the course because the backs of accounting sheets are great to draw maps on. Of course, he also had in mind the six-year combination Commerce-Law course with a few degrees including a Ph.B. in Finance and a Bachelor of Law, but that’s merely incidental.
Gus’s present education is just a sideline of his career; that’s why, no doubt, he finds it a little tough now and then to hang on to his near-maxtma-cuw average. When Gus rolled on to the campus two years ago, fresh from Akron, Ohio, he stuffed his class cards into his pockets and then rushed around joining the Fencing Squad, the Commerce Forum, the Knights of Columbus, the Servers’ Club, the clarinet section of the Band, and every other organization that posted new-membership notices on the bulletin boards. Since then he’s become a member of the Cleveland Club, the Student Commission for Decent Literature, and head sacristan in Lyons, last year, and in Dillon, this year.
But when he isn’t answering the roll at any one of a score of meetings, he takes his place beside Grant, Pershing, and Alexander the Great as one of the cleverest military strategists on the campus. World War II is contract bridge compared to the conflict that raged all last winter in Lyons’ first floor suite. This titanic struggle called for 17 accounting sheets, and the losses sustained by both forces were half a dozen erasers torn to shreds.
“General” Gus launches a battle by devising a military problem involving all the units of a modern army and then proceeds on an accurate time schedule to engage the opposing forces. He employs standard tactics when possible, but often slips in one or two schemes of his own when new dilemmas arise. He is a keen student of the present war and follows the progress made by each army in the areas involved. His interest in military operations started about the time when every boy plays with lead soldiers, but became an active hobby when this science came to the fore with the present crisis.
His first love in this field is the air (Continued on page 35)
Advertising Man to Speak
Before Commerce Forum
Homer J. Buckley, a nationally recognized authority in the advertising field, will speak Monday night on “Business Procedure and Ethics” at 8:00 in the Engineering Building auditorium. This
Homek J. Buckley
will be the first in a series of lectures to be presented by the Commerce Forum during the school year. Besides members, the student body is invited to attend the lecture. The fact that last month, Mr. Buckley presented the same talk to 2,200 students of the Commerce School of the University of Illinois, should merit sufficient incentive for all to be present.
Last year, Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce arranged a program of lectures on the various fields of advertising. All who attended will recall the excellent talk Mr. Buckley gave on the direct mail aspect.
Mr. Buckley’s rise to success was truly a colorful one. He began his career in the shipping department of Marshall Field and Company and worked his way up to his present position as president of Buckley, Dement and Company, the largest and best known direct mail advertising firm in the country.
Mr. Buckley attributes the tremendous growth of his firm to two major reasons: (1) the fact that he has constantly tried to live up to the slogan, “The customer must always be satisfied”; and (2) he is a firm believer in the idea that friendship is of great tangible value in building a successful business.
Besides being the head of the Buckley, Dement and Company, Mr. Buckley is the editor of the widely read book, The Science of Marketing by Mail; was founder and twice president of the Direct Mail Advertising Association; and also a director and past president of the National Council on Business Mail, Inc.
Dean James McCarthy will be honorary chairman of the meeting Monday night.—James Asmuth
25
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras M oritur us	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Soanlan . John Dinges_____ William Baader .. Robert E. Brooks .
_____Managing Editor ____________Promotion _____Sports Editor _____Art	Editor .Administration Editor
Don Heltzel.......................„ Campus Editor
John A. Lynch ..........................Photo	Editor
Ed Drinkard ......................Staff Photographer
Elmer Silha ............................Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate, Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff,. 6:30 P. M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
A BELATED THANKSGIVING
To THE average Senior, this undefeated football season means a lot more than just a beautiful pile of press clippings and pictures. It represents something that we’ve been dreaming of since we were old enough to understand a radio account of a Notre Dame game, something we have been waiting for since we enrolled here four years ago. We’ve stopped worrying about the draft and the war- mongers; and right now we’re about as well satisfied with our four years as we can possibly be, because our ambition to see an undefeated football team before we left Notre Dame has been fulfilled. No doubt we’ll bore everyone to frustration with talk about the team this Christmas vacation; and few people whom we meet in the future will ever leave our company without learning that we were members of the Class of 1942, the year that Notre Dame had its first undefeated season in eleven years.
But no matter how much or how long we talked about the season, we could never have given sufficient tribute to the team and to the coaching staff. While it is true that the success and glory of the two are co-existent, both the team and the coaching staff had unusual difficulties to overcome all year and thus deserve additional individual decoration. The squad was faced with the difficulty of learning a new system of football that required the breaking of old and the forming of new offensive and defensive habits which improvement could only be accomplished through more conscientious practice and extra effort. The new coaching staff came to this institution which is so much in the sportlight and where the football coaches are so much on the spot, to meet a strange squad of football players and an Irish tradition that includes a long list of winning teams and good coaches.
As spring practice began we had an opportunity to study the coaches. We liked die way they whipped the squad into perfect shape through the work of diligent practice. We got very excited—about the new huddle, line shift, and the new pass-pocket from which Bertelli was to throw his passes so successfully. We admired the gentlemanly manner in which the coaches conducted the training period, their referring to the squad as “personnel” and not “ma
terial,” their insistence that the players keep in best of mental, moral and physical condition.
We weren’t too much surprised at the determination and thoroughness with which the Fighting Irish fought through their nine games when we recognized the same qualities in the exceeding care which the staff exercised in instructing the squad in the all-important fundamentals of blocking, tackling, running and passing. It wasn’t difficult for players to work up a stinging ambition to play their best when they saw the coaches expending every available bit of their energy and skill to best prepare them for the encounters. And the members of the team didn’t have too many qualms about following orders to keep themselves in the best of condition, because the orders weren’t coming from a group of pot-bellied, flabby-muscled, physical slouches but a staff of well-conditioned men who could at any time block and tackle as hard as any of them. The greatest tribute that can be paid to the physical condition of the team is the fact that not a single member of the Varsity was unable to start every one of the nine games because of an injury, despite the fact that the first team played the majority of the game time with little relief from substitutes.
We watched skeptically the changes which were made in the lineup and the shifting of men to new positions to suit the coaches’ evaluation of the playing potentialities of the men. Many of us protested loudly the dismissal of the B team and the holding of secret practices on the ground that neither was a necessary change. The undefeated season just ended is the excellent indication of just how far we failed as coaches.
To the coaches and the squad, we give our thanks for bringing us the football season we wanted. But we also appreciate the way the Alumni and the students, by their support and encouragement, helped inspire the squad, Saturday after Saturday, to find victory and to thwart defeat.
If we could trace the success of the team down to a single cause, not many seniors would delay in pointing to the gold statue atop the Dome as the one most responsible and most pervading. Her song, Her colors, Her name, Her students—all are Notre Dame. And we are thankful for that too.
26
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
WALSH AND ZAHM IN SCORELESS TIE AS MUD BOGS INTERHALLERS
Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium, Walsh won the finals of the Interhall Football League by virtue of getting five first downs to Zahm’s one, in a game that saw no scoring.
Worse conditions for play are hardly possible than those under which the game was held. To begin with, Saturday’s snow covered the field. It had warmed up a little in the morning, and the ground became muddy. By afternoon it was quite cold again, and the crust on top of the snow had frozen.
Although Walsh carried the ball to the two yard line in the first half, they were unable to push it across. They were down to the eight, and again their drive failed, and the game ended with Walsh once more deep in Zahm territory.
The “Gentlemen” received the opening kickoff, and immediately started marching, until Bill Mahoney, left end for Zahm, recovered a fumble on his own 32. Then followed a punting duel between Daigler and Sawitz, with Walsh gaining until they took the ball on the Zahm 33. From here Nick Pepelnjak, Walsh half, went around right end on a triple reverse to the 23, just enough for a first down. On the next play Bernie McKay carried the ball to the 10, but the next four plays netted only eight yards, Zahm’s Mead and Milliman stopping the last try.
Sawitz kicked Zahm out of danger, and for the first time the Freshmen appeared the more aggressive, pushing Walsh back of midfield. As the half drew to a close, “Mama” Clark of radio fame blocked a kick on the Zahm 18, but fumbled on the next play. Cuddigan then threw to Sawitz for Zahm’s only first down as the half ended.
The second half opened with another punting duel, and after two exchanges, Walsh found themselves at midfield. Hard-running Jesse DeLois picked up four yards, and on the next play Vince Daigler uncorked the best run of the day. Starting off his own left tackle, he cut back through the secondary, and was forced out of bounds on the 23. McKay then picked up five yards, but the drive was stopped by Zahm’s stubborn defense.
Zahm, realizing they were behind by a wide margin at the start of the fourth
quarter began passing. Walsh intercepted, but a few plays later found Mead recovering a Walsh fumble on the Zahm 35. Midway in the quarter, DeLois intercepted another Zahm pass, and carried it to the 23. On three plunges McKay made it first down on the 11. DeLois took it to the eight. Daigler being stopped, a penalty, and an incomplete pass made it fourth down on the 13. Fitzgerald then came in and attempted a field goal which just fell short. Zahm again kicked, and Pepelnjak ran for another first down as the game ended.
By virtue of their win, Walsh became possessor of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell Trophy, held last year by St. Ed’s. Also to the victors will go individual medals, spoils of a season-long string of victories.
A large part of the credit for victory belongs to Walsh’s line, particularly Deery and Graliker, who opened the holes for the backs to slip through. Honors in the backfield Sunday were taken away from Diagler who had consistently
Steve Graliker and Center Mud stop Zahm
been Walsh’s best ground-gainer during the season. In the championship game it was the plunging of Bernie McKay, the hard running of Jesse DeLois, and the fine all around play of Nick Pepelnjak that stood out.
For the losers it was Mahoney, and Milliman who turned in exceptional performances, though all were good in the line. Cuddigan’s passing, Sawitz’s kicking, and Murphy on defense seemed best in the backfield.
A large portion of thanks should go to Dr. E. R. Handy, who handled the league play and schedules smoothly despite the numerous week-ends, and to his assistants, notably Vince Trainor, who refereed the games throughout the season.
So congratulations to the champions and to the runners-up, who did their best to stop the champion’s march.
Line-ups Walsh	Zahm
Mahon ---------------L.E—-------------Mahoney
Raaf-----------------L.T——___________Scherrer
McNulty--------------L.G_________________Ames
Graliker-------------C.Grady
Deery ---------------R.G----------Fitzpatrick
Farrell--------------R.T_____________Milliman
Fitzgerald___________R.T-----------------Mead
Byrne Q.B-----------------------------Sansone
Daigler--------------L.H-------------Cuddigan
DeLois---------------R.H----------------White
McKay _______________F.B_______________Sawitz
27
KCt l ** JTLINTERJ
ITCH THE PEETT BOX
—	_______BY BILL SCANLAN
SPIRIT, CONDITION WIN FOR IRISH
Coach Frank Leahy interrupted greeting friends in the Irish dressing room Saturday to say that the success of the team was due to two major items: “team spirit and physical condition. They’ve got the real old Notre Dame spirit.” In his first speech before Notre Dame students, Coach Leahy predicted his teams would never be outfought, and that Notre Dame would always be proud of their accomplishments. . . .
U. S. TRACKMEN MAY FLY TO SOUTH AMERICA
Greg Rice, Mr. Track to Irish cinder-followers of the past few seasons, was a dressing-room visitor aftei' the Southern California game. . . • Greg, now working in New York, continues to run and hopes to participate in the Pan-American Games considered for South America. ... If the U. S-. competes, they may fly to S. A. . . . Warren Brown, whose son, Bill, is a freshman at Cavanaugh hall, expects the new Chicago morning paper, The Sun, to hit the newsstand Wednesday, Dec. 3. . . . Brown, one of the best known sports writers in the nation and tops as an after-dinner speaker, is sports editor of the new publication which also lists on. its staff Tom Barry, former Notre Dame publicity chief. . . . Barry had a familiar space in the local press box Saturday.
WALSH COACH MAKES SOCIAL DEBUT
Joe Ragolia, who collaborated with Bill Regan to coach Father John M. Ryan’s Walsh hall team to top laurels on the campus, makes his social debut at St. Mary’s tonight. ... Joe, by the way, has coached two consecutive interhall championship elevens. . . . The Interhaliers showed a lot of ability this year, with 10 teams participating. . . . Credit is due to Director E. C. Handy and Joseph Siatta for their hard work in making the league possible.
SPLINTERS’ CHOICE OF ALL-CAMPUS TEAM
Ends—Andy Murphy (Badin) and Bill Mahoney (Zahm).
Tackles—Bill “Moose” Farrell (Walsh) and Tom McCoy (Zahm).
Guards—Paul Deery (Walsh) and Dick Ames (Zahm).
Center—Steve Graliker (Walsh.
Quarterback—Bill Johnson (Dillon).
Halfbacks—Vince Daigler (Walsh) and Chuck Metzger (Carroll).
Fullback—Bernie McKay (Walsh).
McCoy gets the vote as honorary captain.
BENGAL BOUTS PROMOTER VISITS CAMPUS
Louis DaPra, energetic Bengal Bouts promoter of both 1939 and 1940, took time out last Wednesday to visit the campus as he shuffled from Washington, D. C., to Marinette, Wis., on a business trip for the Federal Power Commission. . . . Louie now headquarters at the Capitol City. . . . Coach Leahy rates the congratulatory telegram he received in New York after the Army game as one of the best reaching him this year. ... It was signed, “The Zahmbies.” . . . John T. Moore, sophomore basketball guard from Chicago, figures his most thrilling experience was: “getting lost in the bluffs of Devils Lakes, Wis., at night.” . . .
BERTELLI FINALLY FOOLS HIS TEAMMATES
Angelo Bertelli, who has thrown enough passes to march down the field 10 times, fooled his opponents several times this fall. ... It remained for the Trojan finale, however, before he added his teammates to the list. ... In the third stanza, both ends, Bob Dove and George Murphy, grabbed the same pass. . . . And rules say “No,” . . . Making it incomplete. . . . Personal to the custodian of “The Week”: What would happen to the Top and Bottom, if it didn’t concern sports? . . . There ought to be something humorous around here that isn’t sports. ... Or is there?
PETE STEWART HANDLES STADIUM PROBLEMS
Custodian of problems around the football stadium is Associate Manager Pete Stewart, pre-med from South Bend. . . . His most embarrassing experience was unconsciously attempting to “bounce” the then Business Manager of Athletics, J. A. Haley, out of the Irish dressing room at the Navy game in Baltimore last year. Pete s face is still red when he thinks of it.. . . He likes to play on schooners on Long Island Sound, and hopes to continue medical studies at University of Rochester.
28
Pollnow, Brown Smash
Pool Marks in Campus Meet
Several new pool records were set in the annual All Campus Swimming Meet held in the Rockne Memorial Pool re-
FRANK POLLNOW
cently.
Frank Pollnow of Alumni Hall shattered Johnny Doerr’s mark of :48.4 in the 75 yard medley by .2 of a second.
Bill Brown, son of Warren Brown, Chicago Herald-American
sports writer, and former Fenwick High school swimming ace, broke his own pool record with a startling :24.7 in the 50 yard free style.
Jack Zilly of Zahm Hall had little competition in winning the diving title.
Summary of events and winners were:
50-YARD FREE STYLE: B. Brown, Cavanaugh; Second—Culhane, Cavanaugh ; Third—La Grou, Carroll. Time, :24.7 (Pool Record).
50 YARD BREAST STROKE: Pollnow, Alumni; Second—Ames, Zahm; Third—J. Walsh, Off-Campus. Time, 33.1.
200 YARD EREE STYLE: Hassett, Badin; Second—Handion; Third, La Grou. Time 2:34.9.
DIVING: Zilly, Zahm; Second—Murray, Dillon; Third—Murphy, Brownson.
50 YARD BACKSTROKE: B. Brown, Cavanaugh; Second—J. Walsh, Off-Campus; Third— McCoy, Breen-Phillips. Time, :30.5.
100 YARD FREE STYLE: Wehh, Breen-Phillips ; Second—Culhane, Cavanaugh; Third—Mulligan, Carroll. Time, 1:05.7.
75 YARD MEDLEY: Pollnow, Alumni; Second —Levernier, Alumni; Third—Ames, Zahm. Time, :48.2 (Pool Record).
—Jack Denniston
Campus Bowlers Relax
With the schedule badly torn up by the past few weeks of frequent homegoings, the All-Campus Bowling League is going to call a halt to league matches for one week. This means that there will be no matches during the week of Nov. 30 to Dec. 6. In that time, the teams that have fallen behind in the schedule will have a chance to recover lost ground. Captains are asked to arrange their matches as soon as possible.
A singles tournament will also be held during the coming week. Bowlers are asked to watch the bulletin boards for announcements on this event.
Latest standings show how the teams in the two brackets have fared so far: (won-lost records in parentheses). Red League — Hot Dogs, (6-0); Champs, (6-3); Knights, (4-2); Golds, (1-5); Gaels, (0-3); Whirlwinds, (0-6). Blue League—Alley Rats, (3-0); St. Ed’s A. C., (8-1); Sonneborn’s Sporting Goods, (7-2), Nu Delta, (4-2); Aeros, (4-5); Hy-Marcs, (1-8).
The five men with the highest individual averages are: Trimborn, (166); Tlusty, (163); Fourmy, (160), Gans, (159); Goldcamp, (154).
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
It was the final eight seconds of a thrill-packed basketball game between the University of Syracuse and our own Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, with the Orangemen out in front by a 46 - 44 count. An out-of-bounds play gave the ball to the Irish in what was to be their last do-or-die attempt.
Chuck Butler passed the ball in to Jim Engel who dribbled, hesitated a moment, and then whipped a pass to a speeding figure who was cutting for the Orange basket. The speeding figure paused in mid-flight, reached for the ball, arched himself into the air, and spun the ball through the net, to knot-up the ball game and send it into overtime, whence the Irish went on to win, 54-49.
The lad who sunk that basket is none other than Art Pope, Capt.-elect, who last year as a third-string forward, ■wrote his name in the annals of Notre Dame basketball history on that memorable night. . . .
Arthur Wellington Pope, a quiet, unassuming lad of Irish-English extraction, was born in Hamilton, Ont., June 1, 1919. Business interests caused his family to move from their Canadian residence to the United States the following year for brief stops in Boston and Long Island, and finally to Chicago where they have remained since 1928.
Art learned his basketball at Morgan Park High School, in the South Side of the Windy City, under Johnny Baldwin, who was an All-American basketball guard, and captain of the National Champs, here at Notre Dame in 1931.
While at Morgan Park, Art distinguished himself as one of the best all-around athletes in the history of the school, winning letters in swimming and golf as well as two in basketball, and reflected the confidence of his teammates by being selected to the captaincy of the basketball team in his senior year.
During his freshman year at Notre Dame, Art decided to give up all other forms of sport and concentrate exclusively on basketball. His efforts won him numerals that year, and a place on the varsity roster the succeeding campaign. Starting last season as a third-stringer, it was not until the aforementioned Syracuse game that Art finally came into his own, and made his bid for recognition. From then on until the end of the season, the genial Pope was looked upon as the man who could be counted on when the chips were down. His coolness under fire and steadying influence
in the tight spots, not only won him a monogram, but also gained him the admiration of all his teammates who recognized his inspirational leadership qualities by elevating him to the captaincy of this year’s Irish quintet at the conclusion of last season’s play.
Arthur Wellington Pope
Like his older brother before him, Art is also a student in the College of Commerce. As a Business Education major, he has a general average of around 88, and is aiming for a cum laude to go along with his B. S. degree next June.
His ambitions lie in the advertising field, but the Army may delay his start along those lines until after he has served his term for Uncle Sam. Right now the Chicago youth has a deferment good until March, •with high hopes of remaining in civilian life at least until after his graduation in June, at which time if the occasion demands he would like to get into either the Army or Navy intelligence bureau.
The boys on fourth floor Walsh tes-
We Are Grateful
.... to Mr. Harry Elmore, official varsity photographer, for permission to reprint the excellent pictures that appear in this football issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Without his willing assistance and cooperation, we should have found it difficult to tell a pictorial story of the season just closed. Mr. Elmore is not only a keen photographer—he is equally remarkable for his aid to harrassed journalists who were bent on telling the story of a nine-game football season, and who had very little time in which to do so.
tify to the fact that “The Boss,” as he is affectionately known to his intimates, is a notoriously early riser, and a good thing too, for they refer to him as the “human alarm clock,” without whose assistance, morning check for them would become a physical impossibility.
“The Boss” numbers among his favorite hobbies those of golf, swimming, and bowling. In fact his whole family, including two younger sisters, go in for the latter sport, and are pretty fair at it too.
For diversion Art likes popular dance bands, especially those of Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller; declares that steak and French-fried potatoes are his favorite dish; exclaims that “Jolting” Joe DiMaggio is his favorite athlete; and that the New York Yankees are his favorite team. He thinks that Hugh Gallerneau star back of the Chicago Bears, is the best football player in the business, and he ought to know because he sat next to Hugh in high school before the latter went to Stanford.
Art lists as his greatest athletic thrills, his fifth in the back-stroke in an all-city swimming meet in Chicago in 1935, and last year’s game-tying basket against Syracuse; although he admits he hopes these thrills will be eclipsed in the coming basketball campaign.
This year, with George Sobek and Chuck Butler, slated for the starting forward positions, Coach George Keogan shifted the Irish captain to guard, where his 6 ft. and 175 lbs. will come in mighty handy in the Irish defense plans.
Thus it is that the Irish open the 194142 hardwood campaign tomorrow night, with another hard-fighting, courageous Chicago captain at the helm in the person of—Arthur Wellington Pope!
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
BY “RED” LONERGAN
1.	What team is considered to have had the greatest winning streak of all time?
2.	What Big Ten team has the best football record?
3.	What is a shovel pass?
4.	What coach brought the Texas forward and lateral pass crazes to the Big Ten? He is no longer coaching this team.
5.	How many seconds is allowed a team between the cessation of one play and the center pass on the next one?
6.	What series of games between two teams has been considered the greatest financial success?
(Continued on page 31)
29
FRANKLIN GAME OPENS CAGE SEASON THREE SENIORS FACE JINX TEAM
NEXT WEEK
Notre Dame will open its basketball season tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse, when it renews an old and hotly-contested series, against a strong aggregation from Franklin College.
Tabbed a breather on the Irish schedule, Franklin holds an all-time margin of seven victories to four over the Keog-an coached squads. The Grizzlies at one time won six straight games from Notre Dame. Their famous “wonder five” of 1923-26 won five of these games.
In the 1925-26 and 1926-27 seasons, the greatest George Keogan had at N. D., so far as won and lost standings are concerned, only one setback was suffered each year and both times it was Franklin who marred the Irish record.
Coach Keogan opens his 19th season as head basketball mentor minus the services of 13 players who figured in last year’s campaign, scoring 17 victories in 22 starts.
Wealth of Material Ready For Tough Fencing Season
According to Coach Walter Langford, the fencing team will certainly not suffer from lack of material this year. “We battled our way through myriads of men wielding sabers and foils to discover that the varsity squad numbers about 30 men, with a group of about 50 freshmen just learning how to fence.”
Last year’s fine team has been riddled by graduation, and the draft has already claimed Captain-elect Lou Peck of this year’s squad. At present Coach Langford can count on only a small group of veterans for the nucleus of his team, but he is confident that he can unearth new talent in his large squad.
The foil burden will be carried by Jim Madigan, John Flynn, and Angel Gonzalez. Mike Humphreys and Herb Melton carry on with the saber, and Capt. Frank Veit is handling the epee dueling. However, a group of three men is needed for each weapon, so the openings to be filled are quite obvious.
Meantime, Coach Langford discovers that most of the freshmen have never fenced before. Consequently, they are being tutored in the fundamentals by the veteran members of the team. The freshmen have no official meets during the year, although occasionally they encounter the boys from Culver Military Academy in informal contests.
The fencing schedule for the season is not yet complete, but it will begin in
30
Three seniors will start for the Irish against Franklin. They represent the entire senior class on the squad. George Sobek, the team’s only two-year letterman at forward; Frank Quinn, aggressive pivot man at center; and Captain Art Pope, who is playing his first year at the guard post after being shifted from forward. Cy Singer, junior guard, who finished second in scoring last year and Charlie Butler, slender junior forward round out the first team.
Other Notre Dame men likely to see action against Franklin are, Buster Hiller, John Nimera, Bob Faught, Jim Engle, Bob Rensberger, Ralph Vinciguerra, Omei' Sturm, Ray Kuka, Orlander Boni-celli and Charlie O’Leary.
Captain Louis Leerkamp leads the Grizzlies, spearheading an attack built around such veterans as Dick Frazell, Roy Grefe, Paul Hendrix, John Duncan and Louie Mahin.—Jack Denniston
January. There will be nine meets, four at home and five away. The schedule will be announced as soon as possible. All meets at home are held in the fieldhouse, either on the basketball floor or in the fencing room under the north grandstands, where bleachers are provided for the spectators.
Beginning next month, a round-robin tournament among members of the fencing squad should do much to determine the first team, but greater developments and progress are expected as soon as newcomers learn to handle their blades.
—Arthur J. Hayes
Hunter Takes Second Place
In C. Country Field of 150
Finishing second in a field of 150 runners, Ollie Hunter led Notre Dame’s harriers, as they placed sixth with 130 points, in the National Collegiate CrossCountry Meet at East Lansing, Mich., . last Monday. Fred Wilt of Indiana U. won the race, and in doing 20:37.0 for the course, he was one second off the National Collegiate Cross-Country record.
Tony Maloney finished ninth while Frank Conforti was coming in 25th. The two Walts, Barry and Brehmer, who rounded out N.D.’s five-man squad, finished farther back, but still within the first third of the competitors.
Rhode Island State, National IC4A champs won the meet. Penn State and Connecticut finished second and third, respectively.
By John A. Lynch
SATURDAY, NOV. 29:
Tea Dance, the ghost of John O’Dea rides again, Jack Malloy and his Cavaliers, Indiana Club, 2:30 p.m.
Basketball, Franklin College vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame field gym, Keogan gets under way, 7:30 p.m.
Movie, “Adam Had Four Sons,” the latest about the fig-leaf kid, cartoon and news, 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.
SUNDAY, NOV. 30:
Zahm holds post-season scrimmage at the Rock, Jim O’Neal, head referee. Penalties enforced for holding.
Notre Dame Catholic Action radio programs begin, inspirational talks about young men and their problems, WSBT, 4:30 p.m.
MONDAY, DEC. I:
Twenty shopping days left till Christmas, arm for defense.
Campus Newscast, Vail Pischke and Jack Kelly with* campus comment, WSBT, 4:15 p.m.
Interhall debates, Law Building auditorium, 7:15 p.m.
Gay Nineties Concert, “The Guardsman Quartet,” excellent voice and musicianship by men who have sung in some 800 movies, a six-bell entertainment, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
TUESDAY, DEC. 2:
Central Illinois Club meeting, 117 Main Building, 7:30 p.m.
Interhall debates, Law Building auditorium, 7:15 p.m. -
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 3:
Basketball, Great Lakes Naval Training Station vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame field gym, 7:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, DEC. 4:
Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.	*
Campus Quiz, Notre Dame men and South Bend girls convene, WSBT, 4: CO p.m.
FRIDAY, DEC. 5:
First Friday.
Campus Sportscast, Jack Morrison and Dan Gentile, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
Lecture, “Battle of the Tongues,” Professor Albert Schinz of the University of Pennsylvania and visiting professor at Indiana University, Washington Hall, 8:00 pjn.
Five Home Games Feature
Tough 1942 Grid Schedule
While football fans are still exclaiming over Frank Leahy’s first-year record as head man at Notre Dame, the soft-spoken Athletic Director announced the 1942 grid schedule, and a sizeable task it represents.
Notre Dame has met all of next year’s opponents at some time in the past, but there are three rivalries being renewed after a lapse of several years.
Missing from the card is the customary easy opener as Georgia Tech dashes up from the South to put up its usual snappy scrap.
One of the more spectacular renewals ■will be the visit of Stanford’s Indians whom the Irish trimmed in the 1925 Rose Bowl classic in which Elmer Layden ran riot as he scored three touchdowns and boomed an 80-yard punt. This tilt against the more or less perennial Rose Bowl occupants, should give some indication whether or not N.D. is “bowl stuff.”
Wisconsin returns to the Notre Dame schedule, seeking to better their record of five defeats, a tie and four victories with the Irish. The Badgers have the distinction of handing N.D. its worst defeat, 58-0, back in 1904. The last meeting, however, was the 27-0 Irish win in 1936; the Madison boys being unable to score in the last four games.
Illinois, with a new coach at the helm, will be somewhat of an unknown quantity, but is aways a power with which to reckon.
Navy returns to Notre Dame for the first time since their 1937 9-7 trimming in an Indiana snowfall. The record stands at 12 wins for the Irish to three for the Middies.
Michigan is credited with the honor of teaching Notre Dame to play football,
meeting the Ramblers for their first game in 1887 and beating them 8-0. The Wolverines hold an eight to one victory margin over the Irish, their lone defeat coming in 1909, another of our undefeated seasons.
Northwestern, minus this year’s senior stars, will be here on Nov. 21, and the following week junior members of our present squad will be making their second trip to the coast to meet Southern Cal.
Great Lakes Plays Here Wed.
Wednesday night the Irish eagers will seek, what we hope will be their second victory of the season as they meet the Great Lakes Naval Training station team on the local floor. The sailors will offer a team studded with former college greats headed by Dick Klein, former Northwestern star who was second in Big Ten scoring in 1940. Forrest Anderson of Stanford; Ernie Andres and Bill Menke of Indiana; Jim Currie, another Northwestern boy; Bob White of Dart-
Real QUALITY and STYLE in clothes tram PARKER-WINTERROWD
Ready-made — Custom Tailored — Made to your measure.
The Brooks Coat — the basic item in a college man's wardrobe — PARKER-WINTERROWD has them in the popular three-button or the new two-button models — in imported tweeds, Shetlands — camel's hair.
mouth; George Rung and Jim Van Ors-del, Miami, Ohio; Frank Baumholtz of Ohio. Bob Callahan of Detroit and Johnny Lobsiger of Missouri are other ex college stars planning trouble for the Irish. Reports from the enemy camp say the coach’s only trouble is picking a lineup from such a galaxy of super men.
Dec. 6. It’s St. Louis IT. here.
Howard Hall Ping Pong
Howard Hall ping pong players have issued a challenge to any other hall teams. A tournament conducted among Howard residents revealed such a wealth of talent that it was decided to issue the interhall challenge for singles or doubles matches. Tom Sweeney from Indianapolis is top man in Howard having defeated Gene Fehlig, monogram man in track and golf, for the singles championship of the hall.
Other hall teams desirous of playing a match with Howard should get in touch with Herb Melton, fencer and S.C. representative.
La/LQR6-0
Answers to Sports Questions
1.	Michigan University won 29 games straight before being tied by Minnesota with no score. They won 27 more games before Chicago won two-nothing.
2.	Michigan.
3.	An underhand pass generally thrown forward, usually used for upsetting a defense.
4.	Francis Schmidt of Ohio State brought this style of play up North to Ohio from Texas Christian.
5.	The team with the ball may have 25 seconds.
6.	The series between Notre Dame and Southern • California has paid about $10,000 per touchdown.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Our Campus Representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTHY
321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hall	115 Sorin Hall
l+'s Not Expensive to Have a Sunday Date in
EMERALD ROOM
Enjoy South Bend's most delicious food prepared by America's finest chef in an atmosphere of sophisticated grandeur ....
ORVILLE FOSTER
At the organ, playing your favorite dinner music from 1:30 to 5:30 p. m.
TIfe EMERALD ROOM
Oliver Hotel
FRENCH REFUGEE
(Continued from page 24) ticular confidence in the policies of Franklin Delano Roosevelt.”
The visitor, who was sitting at a table in the cafe at the time of the interview, could not speak English. His statements were translated to the Scholastic reporter by Prof. Waldemar Gurian who was present at the time.
He is in America now as a representative of the French Christian Union movement, and attended the International Labor Conference in New York City a few weeks ago.
In regard to his escape from prison camps, he had little to say. On one occasion he escaped to Lyons, and from there to Africa where he stayed a few days. He then made his way to Gibraltar on an 11-foot boat, the normal 24-hour trip taking seven days in this instance. He then proceeded to England, eventually America.
He mentioned there are many Catholics serving in De Gaulle’s forces, most of them from the French province of Brittany. The Frenchman said a Carmelite priest is one of the Free French leader’s closest advisors.
Before the fall of France, the young man was connected with a prominent French-Catholic labor movement.
ENGLISH MAJORS (Continued from page 23)
to criticize another’s choice of so-called snap courses. A student majoring in English does so to fit himself for his future needs. He can get as much as he wants out of it.”
Wilbur Puhr, A.B. man from Sheboygan, Wis., says, “I know better ways of wasting my time.”
Dan Morgan, commerce student; “I think that these days when speaking is so important a good foundation in English will enable one to go farther. It will improve his speaking and vocabulary.”
Ed Hoban, commerce man from Chicago and vicinity; “English! I can speak it; let them (majors) worry about it.”
Bill Gorman, a commerce major from Meadville, Pa., and former basketball star at Meadville High school, says; “English is a fine subject, but majors are not taking advantage of the other excellent opportunities to be had at the University.”
Thomas V. Dougherty, A.B.; “I like the English majors. Most of them seem to know what they are talking about, which happens to be an unusual occurrence these days.”
Bob Croft, Jr., an aeronautical engineer from Chicago, Ill., and a former cheer leader at St. Mel High school, who the day before had said that English majors stink, on being interviewed, had this to say for publication; “I don’t know what the English majors are talking about and neither do they.”
Joe O'Brien, chemistry student; “This is a good place for them. Might as well be an English major, there’s nothing else to do.”
Robert Murnane, pre-med; “To me an • English major is a guy who only wants to study, teach and do nothing else. I think this is a very small ambition.”
Jim Harrington, pre-med; “They think they are so intellectually superior to’ us. They have an overbearing attitude.”
And with that final question we concluded our interview of the week. In these interviews the Scholastic staff carefully considers the consensus of opinion, and then determines that they have proved absolutely nothing. Next week the question, “Are the camp fire girls going to blazes?” will be asked a select group.
This group will have a chance at the Scholastic’s usual fine selection of prizes. Next week we will award 15 cents in cash and 20 copies of Scrip.
—Dave Condon
NOTRE DAME REPRESENTATIVES of
THE MODERN GILBERT’S
"South, Setuid	State Men'
If you want the best in fine quality apparel see any one of our campus representatives.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
If Your Shopping List Is Relatively Long, Remember Fond Sisters, Fathers, Uncles, Cousins, Aunts, Will Prize
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT'
Cadets Had Eyes Right For The Admiral’s Uniform
On the eve of the Southern California football game there came to all members of the Naval R.O.T.C. a notice from the
commanding officer. Said the notice in terse military language:
“The Battalion will fall in at 1300 (Navy jargon for 1 p.m.), Saturday, in the ramp leading to the football field in normal order, column of three’s, first platoon, first company
nearest the playing field.
“Promptly at 1315.... the unit will march on the field._
“If Admiral Downes is in uniform in the President’s box, the Battalion commander will so indicate by giving ‘eyes right’ to the staff.... If the Admiral is not in uniform, ‘eyes right’ will NOT be given.___
guides, who happened to be Spanish girls, made it very clear that millions of Spaniards had given their blood to prove that Catholicism was not folk-lore, and that millions more were ready to die to prove it again.
Lunn’s ever-interesting career which has led him around the world and back again has hardly been dulled by the present European chaos. His last voyage to Europe was made via one of the lease-lend destroyers. Quite a bit of his time over there was spent at his home in England where he became as calloused to air-raids as we are to Indiana weather. Customs have changed but slightly; this fall he raked shrapnel out of his garden instead of leaves and filled a bushel basket with the souvenirs of one evening’s excitement. Air-raiding has fallen off a bit lately, mostly on account of England’s winter climate, the increased activity on Germany’s eastern front, and the improvement in the RAF’s night fighting.—Jack Bennett
Bernard M. Fitzgerald, professor of evidence at Loyola university law school, is serving as special counsel with the compliance division of price administration and civilian supply at Washington.
ARNOLD LUNN
(Continued from page 22)
astounded the world which had been stuffed to the gills by Red Loyalist propaganda, by firmly maintaining neutrality since the outbreak of World War II. Strange, isn’t it, that the government least friendly to the Spanish people during the Civid war now depends on Spain as the last barrier between the enemy and the vital key to eastern Mediterranean strongholds. “A bit ironic,” he pointed out, “that no clever leftwing commentator ever predicted that the first bombs to fall on Gibraltar would be French.”
The Nazis, nevertheless, are trying very hard to win the support of the Spanish people. One of their more unsuccessful methods has been to send representative groups of German youth into Spain as sort of a good-will gesture. One such group, composed of Nazi girls, was being politely escorted through an Art Museum; they halted momentarily beneath a famous painting of Our Lady, and one of the young Aryan women remarked patronizingly ,“We find your Spanish folk-lore so enchanting!” Enraged by this disparaging remark the
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame Christmas Cards
5 cents
(Two different scenes) GROTTO or ADMINISTRATION BLDG.
Notre Dame Monogrammed Jewelry
Notre Dame Pillows, Pennants and Souvenirs
Religious Articles (Gift Wrapped Ree)
BADIN HALL
Notre Dame
Deceptive is their handsome ruggedness. For behind it there’s built-in flexibility and a glove-like ankle fit that makes PRE-FLEX Shoes a tomfort delight from the first step. Authentic in fashion. Enjoy that PRE-FLEX thrill . . . Try on your
Make Kuehn's your headquarters for dress and formal Shoes.
120 S. Main Street
34
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
It’s ADLER’S for Arrow —
ARROW SHIRTS
ARROW TIES ARROW ’KERCHIEFS ARROW SHORTS
’’If it’s Arrow, we have it!’’
"HOLD THAT LINET
Arrow shirts go the whole day long without a “sub.” In the Arrow backfield is Hitt, a fine white broadcloth shirt that is all-American in its long-wearing and non-wilting constitution. Cut to fit your torso and Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Get Hitt today! §2.

ARROW SHIRTS
"Mama" Clark's Appeal Is Answered from Detroit
The stage of Washington Hall resembled a Freshman’s room just after it had been “rough-housed.” Vox-Pop had left the air and the echoes of the program still filled the stage. A hum of noise rose through the big auditorium as participants were congratulated on the program.
Suddenly the sharp, insistent ring of a telephone was heard. Somebody lifted the ear-phone and was greeted by a sweet feminine voice.
“I’m calling from Detroit in answer to ‘Mama’ Clark’s appeal this evening.”
The call was collect.
GUS STUHLDREHER
(Continued from page 25)
arm. He avidly studies the latest aeronautical developments and reads every publication on the subject. He has formulated a few personal ideas on military strategy and favors one or two radical departures from the traditional battle-line formations, declaring them unwieldy and outmoded.
“An ideal basic military organization might consist of three administratively independent arms — an air force, an army, and a navy — tactically bound together by a supreme staff and commanded in the field by ‘three-dimensionalists’ — experts with strategic and tactical knowledge of all three branches. The army and navy should have as an integral part of each an air arm tactically. organized and of sufficient size to provide adequate support for both services in the theatre of operations. The air force should be responsible for carrying out all offensive and defensive aerial operations and should include a large organization of air-borne infantry and parachute troops capable of carrying out an independent campaign wherever necessary. The tactical units of both the air force and the army should follow the Einheit System of organization in order to obtain more fully the flexibility required in modern warfare. The navy should be organized into small striking forces or “task forces,’ for greater usefulness and mobility because the battle-line, as such, is outmoded.”
Where there is smoke there is fire, and where there is firing there ought to be a gun club, contends Gus. An organization of all the shooting enthusiasts on the campus ought to be promoted, he thinks, and a rifle range and skeet field laid out. Anyone else who has the same opinions ought to drop in at the Stuhl-dreher Dillon den and talk things up. But unless he has the rest of the day free, it wouldn’t be a good idea to bring up a subject like “What are little battleships made of?”—Jack Bennett
35
Concert Season Opened By 100-Piece N. D. Band
The 100-piece Notre Dame Band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, opened the 1941-42 concert season last Wednesday evening at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. This was the first of a series of concerts to be given by the band this year.
The program
rendered was varied and showed evidence of much preparation. The climax came at the end with “Victor Herbert’s Favorites,” a medley of the most popular of this great composer’s works arranged by M. L. Lake, and “Mardi Gras” from “The Mississippi Suite” by Ferde Grofe. One of the high-lights of the evening was “Trombones To The Front,” a short novelty number featuring the entire trombone section.
The complete program was as follows :
The Ramparts We Watch .....................
—Lt. Commander W. Gordon Beecher, U.S.N. Sons of The Bayou___________________Rube Bloom
Glory of The Gridiron-----------Harry L. Alford
Lady of Spain-------------------Tolchard Evans
Ave Maria --------------------------Bach-Gounod
Soldiers On Parade--------------Joseph De Luca
Trombones To The Front....Clarence E. Hurrell, Jr.
Victor Herbert’s Favorites-----Victor Herbert Arrangement by M. L. Lake
Mardi Gras....................... Ferde	Grofe
Notre Dame Victory March........Shea-Casasanta
Fox River Valley Club
Plans Christmas Dance
The second annual Christmas dance
of the Fox River Valley Club of Notre
Dame, has been
DONALD CASEY
scheduled for Dec. 29 at the Conway Hotel, in Appleton, Wis. All alumni from the Fox River Valley and vicinity are cordially invited to attend. Information can be secured from Robert Fountain, chairman of the alumni committee,
Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Neil J. McCarty, of Kaukauna, Wis., heads the club as president. He is assisted by Donald P. Casey, of Oshkosh, Wis., who acts as secretary and treasurer. Retiring officers were Robert L. Langlois, of Appleton, Wis. and John J. Christman, of Green Bay, Wis. The moderator of the club is the Rev. George G. Claridge, O.Praem., of St. Norbert’s College, West De Pere, Wis.
The first meeting of the yeai' was held at the Town Club in South Bend, early in October. After a buffet dinner, officers
Gabardine Jackets
They'll stop that North Wind!
$y.95
A real windbreaker of gabardine with iridescent rayon lining. Tailored with sunburst belted back with easy comfortable fit. Zipper breast pocket and two roomy slash pockets .	.	.
WYMAN’S
On Michigan at Washington — separate entrance, south door
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
Patronize Our Advertisers
36
and members of the club discussed the coming Christmas dance. Various committees were appointed. Paul McKenny, of Appleton, heads the hall committee, Joseph Trilling, of Sheboygan, Wis., is in charge of the committee for engaging an orchestra and Albert J. Muench, of Neenah, Wis., is at the head of the committee for publicity.
The Club was formed during the school session of 1940-41. Several men of the Fox River Valley district held an informal meeting on the steps of the Commerce building one brisk fall evening and laid the primary foundations for the Club. The first meeting was held two weeks later and the Fox River Valley Club came into official being through the sanction of the University department that controls clubs and campus organizations.
"Catalyzer" Features Wide
Open Style of Reporting
The Chemistry students’ publication, The Catalyzer, has made its initial 1941 appearance on the campus. This monthly report on the activities of the chemists is published by the department of chemistry and chemical engineering and edited by the Notre Dame student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
The personnel of the 1941 staff is: Walter J. Cordes, editor; Robert W. Degenhart, associate editor; James F. Eagen, assistant editor; William J. Minges, news editor.
In the October issue there is a pleasingly wide-open style featuring an address, “You and Research” by T. A. Boyd of the General Motors Corporation. This is given four pages and is to be continued in the next issue. A well-written editorial compliments the Freshmen on their splendid spirit and cooperation. Activities of the various clubs are given in a clear-cut manner. Although these are numerous, their presentation is such that they are far from boring to the reader. The last two pages are devoted to personals and news of the class of 41.
Reading this publication one cannot help but to become interested in the issues and problems of the chemistry student.—Phil Keen
appears daily in the Chicago Tribune. However, only a few recognize “T. E. B.” as an English teacher at Notre Dame and associate editor of the Ave Maria.
T. E. B. is Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C. He first attended Notre Dame in 1899 as a student in the Prep School. In 1907 he graduated from the University and was ordained in 1911. He has been teaching here since then.
He started writing poetry for his English classes when he was a student at Notre Dame. Some of the poems were published in the Scholastic. .
Father Burke has been contributing to the “Wake of the News” for almost 10 years. About two years ago Father O’Donnell asked T. E. B. to gather some of his poems for publication in a book to be called “T. E. B.” Since 1939 almost 5,000 copies have been sold.
Father Burke says he gets most of his ideas from the students themselves. Some of his poetry is serious, some sad, some gay, and some humorous, but all very popular.—Harry Osborne
Get them on
Victor and
Bluebird Records
Viet or (Popular)
TOMMY DORSEY—“Swinging on Nothing” and “On the Alamo.”
Paying his tuition at University of Cincinnati college of law with 102 silver dollars, a student explained the money came from his sideline as a justice of the peace.
TOMMY DORSEY—“Violets For Your
Furs” and “Somebody Loves Me.”
SAMMY KAYE — “Honey Bunch” and This Is No Laughing Matter.”
JOHN KIRBY—“Night Whispers” and ‘Tweed Me.”
T. E. B.'s Book Has Sold 5,000 Copies
Many people are familiar with the poetic contributions of a strangely anonymous “T. E. B.” in Arch Ward’s “In the Wake of the News” column which
FORD HOPKINS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
LOST—A silver school ring with maroon stone, with the engraving “Xavier High School, New York,” encircling the stone. The ring was lost outside the Dining Hall. There is a reward for its return. The finder can get in touch with me at 81 Brownson Hall. Arthur Joseph Murphy.
E'
ALBUM OF CHRISTMAS CAROLS — (violins, harp and organ) — directed by Lew White.
Bluebird
SPECIAL RECORDING (on one record) — “Jingle Bells” (Glenn Miller), and “Santa Is Coming to Town” (Alvino Rey and the King Sisters).
GLENN MILLER—“Dreamsville, Ohio’ and “Papa Miccolini.”
DINAH SHORE—“I’ve Got It Bad and That Ain’t Good” and “This Is No Laughing Matter.”
DOLLY DAWN’S ORCHESTRA—“Gay Ranchero” and Hallelujah!”
VAUGHN MONROE
‘I Struck a
Match in the Dark” and “Something New.”
uonins
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings

37

First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
• Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
•
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
with
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH and other tunes
•
N. D. Souvenir and Novelty Gifts. . . . Gifts wrapped and shipped to any point. . . .
Mail orders will be given prompt attention.
/a^ire£e/i'.
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGANWASHINGTON
DISC-CUSSION
Just between you,'me, and the proofreader, I neglected to mention the deadline on the Victor contest last week. The contest ends this Sunday night, Nov. 29, and each contestant is allowed three entry blanks. I have mailed mine in. Have you?
A number really coming into its own with several excellent recordings is Gershwin’s “Embraceable You.” It starts out with Jo Staggord on an especially smooth vocal with a background of the Pied Pipers. The second chorus is taken by the Pipers alone and it ends with Jo joining them aagin. Really terrific. Backing it up is “The Sunshine of Your Smile,” a sparkling fox-trot with an excellent Sinatra vocal. A must record for any Dorsey fan and plenty of others.
Virginia O’Brien, the girl with the “Frigid Face” released a number some time ago that is finally gaining popularity around these parts. It’s already a hit in a great many other places. Virginia sings both sides straight for the first chorus and in a style all her own on the second. She is the girl that you’ve seen in quite a number of motion pictures lately and who never has been known to move a facial muscle while singing. Everyone should at least try “Two In A Taxi” and “Clear Out of This World” and listen for the second choruses.
Bobby Byme has recorded a pair of this summer’s top tunes; .a swingy “It’s You Again” and a really smooth “I Went Out of My Way.” The first has a vocal by Dorothy Clair and Stuart Wade handles them on the second side. Both sides have especially good dance tempos and some nifty trombone licks.
Dinah Shore, the dynamic diva of the whirling wax, chants with perfection a duo of smash hits for anybody’s catalog. You’ve already heard a lot about “This Is No Laughing Matter” and “I Got It Bad And That Ain’t Good” and you know they’re dynamite in any version. As sung by Dinah they’re sensational.
There is “Something New” when Count Basie plays it. The Count takes this Spanish-flavored melody for a bright jump ride. The saxes have a good time and Buck Clayton’s trumpet is in the groove, while Basie rocks the keys with some high power jive. The flip-over is “Moon Nocturne,” a clear contrast, beautifully handled in a soft vein. Pure Basie in style, the Count gives it an impressive arrangement with a finely sensitive vocal by Earl Warren.
Another killer-diller record has Tommy Dorsey with what should be a
"The MEN'S Corner"
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
COVERT COATS $3350
THE COAT WITH THE SNAP OF A MILITARY SALUTE
Here Is The Popular Covert Military Cloth That Is The Rage of College Campuses From Coast to Coast Made Into a Coat That Smacks of Correct College Styling.
MAIN AT COLFAX
38
gilt-edged contender for the best-seller list in very short order. The first one, “Two In Love” is Meredith Wilson’s follow-up to his popular “You And I.” Another beautiful love song with a graceful melody and Frank Sinatro on the vocals, “A Sinner Kissed an Angel” boasts a great melody which everyone •will be whistling soon. Frank Sinatra again on the vocals and one can never get too much of Sinatra.
Song-sation of the Week
“The King of the Blues,” Woody Herman, serves you with all the blues that can be put on one platter when he gives out with the title tune from “Blues in the Night.” It’s so good I had to play it 13 consecutive times before everyone that lives around me had heard enough of it. The other side with “This Time The Dream’s On Me” is almost as good. Woody and a chorus sing the vocals in a slow dreamy tempo that only adds to the excellence of this record. To say that this one is sensational is an understatement.

You Supply the Head...
LEE supplies the HAT-bTUDE^
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
f* Reg. U.S. Pah Off.
Pan-American Relations
Club Now Being Formed
A new club, the name of which will probably be the Inter-American Relations Club, is being formed on the campus. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., has agreed to be advisor for the club. Father Cunningham is well versed in Latin American affairs, having visited nine republics south of the border.
Three of the students organizing the club are Bob Millett, Carroll Hall, Ray Araujo, 225 Dillon Hall, and Jim Cunningham, 328 Morrissey Hall. Students who are interested in joining the new organization may leave their names with either of these men or with Father Cunningham.
The following was contained in the notice of organization: “It is planned to have bi-monthly meetings. If any students desirous of joining the club already have engagements for certain evenings they should make this fact known when turning in their names.”

Attention Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday.
Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p, m.
Make money on your parties here.
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
BRUGGNER-S CIGAR STORE
110 N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
Let the nearest store that sells LEE Water-Bloc"’ Hats fit your head into this neiv semi-telescope— the Bearcroft — with a slightly narrow band and a bound edge brim. Wear it snapped way back. For only 5 Bucks, you’ll be a bearcat in The Bearcroft.
Always dean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Challenging higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value. WM. DEMOTH & CO.. N.Y.
Found only at ... .
5 K*TZ
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 V/OLWG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
HEHDn&URRD
miuno
39
Academy of Science Is Goal of Every Pre-Med
“The Notre Dame Academy of Science is an academic honor society. Students who are certified for membership by the dean must have a scholastic average of at least 87 per cent for the previous semester and their disciplinary record must be satisfactory. The roster of the Academy of Science is therefore distinctly a roll of
honor, characterizing its members as scholars and gentlemen.”
Thus Dean Henry B. Froning succinctly defines the organization founded 11 years ago by the late Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science for many years. Father Wenninger saw the need for an honor society among the science students which would present the opportunity for men, with common interests in the fields of chemistry and biology, to meet regularly and exchange ideas. The Academy affords the best students in the three upper classes an occasion for closer personal acquaintanceship with each other and with the members of the Science faculty than
would otherwise be possible merely on the basis of classroom and accidental campus contacts.
“This is not just another club, not merely a social fraternity,” Dean Froning has often insisted. Accordingly, the topics of discussion at the bi-monthly meetings are based on serious scholastic subjects; while most papers read before the Academy concern some aspect of science, subjects of a more general nature invading the fields of religion, philosophy, the arts, as well as current-events are occasionally considered. Several times during the year guest speakers who are authorities in their various branches of industry and research are presented to the Academy.
The Academy has already held three meetings this semester. The first of these was an organization meeting at which the constitution was read, and officers for the ensuing semester elected. Peter V. Moulder, senior pre-med who was recently listed among several others from Notre Dame in the current collegiate Who’s Who, was elected president, the other offices being filled by Richard T. Matlavish, vice-president; George E. York, secretary and an advisory committee consisting of Patrick E. Yoklavich, James W. Ford, and Clarence A. Imboden. Dean Froning is moderator of the Academy and Rev. James H. Kenna,
C.S.C., is the spiritual advisor.
In the second meeting the scientists turned from the test tube and the microscope to snatch eagerly at the opportunity to debate the fundamentals of philosophy in a discussion following the paper delivered by President Moulder on “Humanism and the Scientist.” The argument over the primacy of wisdom or experimental science waxed warm and lengthy until one of the evening’s guests, a recognized figure in philosophy himself, Professor Frank O’Malley, was asked to straighten the threads of Aristotle’s teachings.
The third meeting of the Academy was held on Monday, Nov. 10. The speaker of the evening, Dr. John D. Mizelle, professor of zoology, delivered a fascinating exposition on the subject of parasites, discussing both present and past aspects of these much maligned members of the animal kingdom. Dr. Mizelle revealed that every organism is host to at least one parasite, and giving examples of all types of parasitic life, he sketched life cycles of those best known to the layman. In answer to several queries at the close of his address, the doctor illustrated the contributions of the parasitologist to medicine in recent years.
Membership in the Academy of Science is the traditional goal of every pre-med, since it is a powerful factor in the rec-
£
A
KThe taLste^ that doys and never, cW
Pause • • • Go refreshed
You’ll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola just as often and as surely as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of genuine goodness. Ice-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment, buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
You trust its quality COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY of South Bend "	*	1107 Beyer Avenue'
40
ommendation of graduates for medical school. For membership in the Academy for three semesters the coveted key of the society, signifying permanent membership, is awarded at the annual banquet at the close of each school year. The key is a symbol of everything the Academy of Science stands for — the noteworthy attainment of a Notre Dame man, a gentleman and a scholar.
14 Men Try Out for Debate Team Yesterday and Today
Yesterday and today, Nov. 27 and 28, respectively, the tryouts for the varsity debating team were held in the auditorium of the Law Building according to the following schedule:
Nov. 27 at 4:15 p.m.:
Affirmative, Tom Bannigan, Robert Galvin, and Harold Haley; Negative, William J. O’Neil, and Mark Lies.
Nov. 27 at 7:40 p.m.:
Affirmative, Charles McFarlane, Joseph Tracy, and Donald Heltzel; Negative, Ed Eschelman, and John Utz.
Nov. 28 at 4:15 p.m.:
Affirmative, John Murray, and William Scanlan; Negative, Robert LeMense, and William Meier.
The question was: “Resolved that the Federal Government Should Regulate by Law All Labor Unions in the United States.”
The director of this project is William J. Coyne, debate coach. He could not be contacted in order to obtain a statement on what kind of a team he expects or how things are shaping up so far. How
ever, there are two veterans back: William Meier, who, incidentally, has the highest average at the University, and Mark Lies who was on the “B” debate team last year.—Frank Sier aw ski
THE
H U D D Lt
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ____________ $1.50
Yello-Bole Regular....... 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial .... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinldess ..... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor .... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran ____ 5.00
Hollycourt .............. 3.50
Comoy .................     6.00
Corncobs..........10c	and 25c
ART JARRETT and his Orchestra
at the
PALAIS ROYALE
Saturday, November 29
(9 p. m. to I a. m.)
Adm.—Advance, per person 80c (tax includ.)
Lovely Voice
Makes Chicago Debut
When you ride the South Shore you can get off at six convenient Chicago stations.
The Randolph and Van Buren St. stations are only a whisper away from Michigan Avenue and the Loop.
C. w. VEACH
Ticket Office a
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
41
Forty Hopeful Boxers
Approximately 40 boxing aspirants are learning the fundamentals of boxing in the recently formed boxing class under the direction of Mr. Napolitano. At the present, basic training and exercises are the major activities of this sizeable group when they meet every Monday and Thursday in the Rockne Memorial at 7:15. As instructors they have four fellows who really know their “stuff”: Bill Radon, Chuck Kralovec, Bill McGrath, and Paul Malloy. Off to a good start, the class hopes to prepare suitable personnel for the Bengal Bouts, annual fight event, the proceeds of which go to the missions in India.
Records Establish Early N.D.-St. Mary's Relationship
Documents received recently by the archives of the University of Notre Dame from Sister Mary Theodosia, S.P., of St. Mary-of-the-Woods college, Terre Haute, Ind., give evidence of the close relationship of the two institutions during the early days of their foundings in what was then wild Indiana. Announcement of the reception was made this week by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist, exactly 99 years after the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s founder, first stood near the shores of St. Mary’s lake on Nov. 26, 1842.
Among the documents, which were discovered among old records of St. Mary-of-the-Woods college, is a note sent by Father Sorin to Mother Mary Theodore, S.P., founder of St. Mary’s, while on his way from what is now Montgomery, Ind., to South Bend, Ind., to find a site for his university. He had originally planned to establish a school at Vincennes, Ind., but on his arrival in the state he found one had already been set up there.
A note from the diary of Mother Theodosia tells how on Dec. 1, 1851, one of her farm workers took a yoke of oxen to Vincennes for Father Sorin. This team was later used to carry the latter’s belongings to Notre Dame.
The Sisters of Providence, who operate St. Mary-of-the-Woods college, and the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who are at Notre Dame, were both established in France by the Rev. M. Jacques Dujarie, in the early 19th century.
SMASHING ATOMS (Continued from page 18)
running a while, an enormous amount of electricity begins to get crowded in a very small space. This large charge will
42
repel any particle of like charge which is near it. That is, suppose a couple of lone electrons were to get close to this large mass of negative electricity, they would be repelled with terrific force and at a terrific speed. That is exactly what happens. Electrons are forced down an insulated tube at speeds of over 100,000 miles a second. When the speedy little particles strike an obstruction, something has to give and that’s where the atom smashing comes in. When the electrons hit a selected substance at the end
No Cramming Necessary! For swell flavor and real chewing fun-the answer is delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
v-iav
I®
ffed
of the tube at this speed, the atoms of the substance are considerably jarred, to say the least, and some of them can’t stand the strain, and break up. That’s all there is to it. Simple, isn’t it?
An atom broken up in this way is the source of the physicist’s knowledge of what an atom is like. In the same way, you usually have to break a clock before you can find out what’s inside of it.
If all this still leaves you cold, remember that if it weren’t for atom smashers, — oh, what’s the use!

MUSIC
;	By J. R. C.
= For several years and particularly i	since broadcasting for Coca Cola, Andre
?	Kostelanetz’s popularity has increased
■	tremendously with both classical and
;	popular music lovers for his superb yet
less symphonic renditions of classics and his dynamic, classical treatments of popular tunes and semi-classical ballads. His are not merely different arrangements: they are excellent, careful orchestrations, enlivened by the famous :	“Kostelanetz Strings” with their spark-
J ling brilliance. After such Columbia ■	album-hits as “Rhapsody in Blue,” "Mu'	sic of Victor Herbert,” “Music of Ste-
j phen Foster” and other collections, Octo-■ ber saw his recording of Ferde Grofe’s :	“Grand Canyon Suite.” For November,
;	Andre and his orchestra recorded on a
;	single disk the most popular movement,
:	“On the Trail.” Although recording now
:	for but a comparatively short time,
Andre already has over a dozen hit rec-
:	ords, among which are: “Claire de
Lune,” “To a Wild Rose,” “To a Water
-	Lily,” “Begin the Beguine,” “Merry
.	Widow Waltz,” and “Smoke Gets in
»	Your Eyes.”
After a flood of nearly a dozen ver'	sions of Tschaikowsky’s “Concerto in
•	‘B’ Flat,” Freddy Martin’s original pop,	ularized recording stands above them all
;	—above even his repeat recording en-
:	titled “Tonight We Love.”
Glenn Miller has finally released his “Dear Arabella,” a rather novel little ■ piece: fast-slow, swing-blues, Miller-not Miller. . . . Quite a piece. Incidentally, Miller’s arrangement of “Intermezzo” has been heard on the air now for about three weeks and almost gets the nod above Spivak’s, but not quite; Charlie’s is still the best popular arrangement.
Also among November recordings: Gene Krupa’s “The Walls Keep Talking,” a novelty, but sweet and rhythmic, backed by “Come Be my Love,” two numbers that are worthy of Krupa, although the Krupa drums are not prominent; Frankie Master’s “Is It Taboo?”; for those who saw and heard Lawrence Welk last week at the Palais Theatre, “Nickel Polka” backed by “Raise the Window Down”; old but fascinating, “William Tell Overture,” done by Alvino Rey, with many varied and curious treatments of what some call ‘this bourgeois’ classic; Les Brown’s “Till Autumn,” a swell job by the orchestra and fair job by vocalist on a number that will also be tops before long, even though autumn is nearly past.
LA VENDETTA, Mozart — Salvatore Bac-caloni with Orchestra.
THE LORD’S PRAYER, Malotte — Nelson Eddy.	.
Now, more than ever the perfect gift great music on
CARMEN (Suite), Bizet — Sir Thomas Beecham and London Philharmonic Orch.
SYMPHONY No. 5 IN E MINOR, Tschai-kowsy — Cleveland Orchestra — Artur Rodzinski.
LE SACRE DU PRINTEMPS, Stravinsky — Igor Stravinsky and New York Philharmonic-Symphony Orchestra.
CONCERTO No. 1 IN B FLAT MINOR, Tschaikowsky — Egon Petri at piano and London Philharmonic Orchestra.
CONCERTO IN D for Violin and Orchestra, Beethoven — Joseph Sazigeti (violin) and Bruno Waltei- conducting the orchestra.
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
BOIHIIS
In. a, Idet vein ,
GAITE PARISIENNE (Ballet), Offenbach — Efrem Kurtz and London Philharmonic Orchestra.
FRANKIE CARLE ENCORES — Played by Frankie Carle.
DANCE OF THE HOURS, Ponchielli — Frederick Stock and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra
43
0^/ our way...Tf n
Chesterfield
Out on the range it’s “Howdy pardner, have a Chesterfield” That’s true Western hospitality. For bringing smokers together, giving them exactly what they want, Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is right at the top.
There is more downright pleasure in Chesterfield’s COOL MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE than in anything else you ever smoked.