HIGH LIGHTS
Manion Joins America First
Safety Courses Begun Cautious Irish Meet Carnegie Interhall Football Opens Cafe Society Blooms Sunken Treasure of N. D.
VOLUME 75 NOVEMBER 4 OCTOBER 17, 1941
Interhailers use new blocking tactics.
ARTURO TOSCANINI
Symphony No. 5 (Beethoven) with the NBC Symphony Orchestra. 8 sides, in album..............$4.50
LEOPOLD STOKOWSKI
and The Philadelphia Orchestra
Nutcracker Suite (Tschaikowsky). 6 sides, in album $3.50
SERGE KOUSSEVITZKY and The Boston Symphony
Symphonies Nos. 29 and 34 (Mozart). 9 sides, in album....................................$5.00
EUGENE GOOSSENS
Symphony No. 2 (Tschaikowsky) with Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. 8 sides, in album . . . $4.50 Peer Gynt Suite No. 1 (Grieg) with London Philharmonic Orchestra. 4 sides, in album.......$2.50
HANS KINDLER and The National Symphony
Symphony No. 3 (Brahms). 8 sides, in album $4.50 Symphony No. 3 (Polish) (Tschaikowsky). 10 sides, in alnum.................................$5.50
PIERRE MONTEUX
La Vaise (Ravel) with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra. 4 sides, in album.............$2.50
SIR THOMAS BEECHAM
En Saga, The Bard, Vaise Triste, etc. (Sibelius) with The London Philharmonic Orchestra. 14 sides, in album.........................'..........$7.50
FABIEN SEVITZKY ....
Russian and Ludmilla—Overture (Glinka)—Dubin-ushka (Rimsky-Korsakow) with The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra. 2 sides ;...............$1.00
BRUNO WALTER and The
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
Eine kleine Nachtmusik (Mozart). 4 sides, in album $2.50
Leonore Overture No. 3 (Beethoven). 4 sides, in album....................................$2.50
To hear Victar Recorda^at their beMf play them OM the new RCA Vidrola
complete stock of Victor Records. You’ll find Victor Records are best, best in orchestras—best in conductors—best because of the unrivalled Victor recording technique. Why be contented with less? Get the best at no extra cost! wSpWF
SPECIAL Gift OFFER!
The makers of Victor Records are celebrating the greatest year in their history with this sensational gi/t offer on these two great Victor Red Seal Records No. 18220 and No. 13830.
GET YOURS NOW!
Buy either one for	Get the other one
*1.00 FREE
TWO FOR THE PRICE OF ONEI
Batt Brad Mm 12" Victor RM Seii
Racarts! TMseflarlt taaliaitMtioaMly!
Eugene ORMANDY and the great Philadelphia Orchestra playing Th* Eaiparor Waltz, by Johann Strauss. No. 1*220,
Arthur
FIEDLER
and the great Boston "Popa” Orchestra playing FaustBaHetMasIc, by Gounod. No. 13*30.
Other Magnificent Victor Records by these Distingaished Artists Eugene Ormandy and Th* Arthur Fiedler and The
Philadelphia Orchestra	Boston “Pops”
Sibelius 75 th Anniversary Album. 6 sides . $3.50 Meistersinger—Dance of the Apprentices — Entrance of Meistersingers (Wagner). 2 sides . 75jf
1812 Overture—Capric-cioltalien (Tschaikowsky) 8 sides, in album . $4.50 Gioconda—Dance of the Hours (Ponchielli). 2 sides
$1.00
Open Tues., Thurs.
iiODins
/ft 'ren/M	.
and Sat. Evenings
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Brown Reveals Football Formula At University Hour— ‘Just Fun Plus Desire and Mental Attitude’
—Ohio State Lantern
❖
The first Parade this year lamented the lack of material. Now the moan is just the opposite. After we went through a week’s exchanges trying to find something to pass off on the general public in this column, the room looked like the central disposal point for all the wastepaper in the University. The other night we had a terrible nightmare about being smothered to death in a huge, mountainlike pile of newspapers, and woke up to find two Indiana Daily Students, a Plainsman, some Daily Texans, and an Ohio State Lantern in bed with me.
Bring your own brass knuckles
Those who disapprove of the Washington Hall movie rush had better not transfer to the University of Hawaii. This article in the school’s paper, Ka Leo a Hawaii, appealed to our sanguine appetite. The heading was, “Missiles and animals barred in flag rush.” Then came the sub-heading, “Hazing Committee sets rules.”
“All participants in this afternoon’s fray will be expected to abide by the following rules set up by the hazing committee:
1.	No hard missiles of any kind are to be used. For example: avocadoes, rocks, billiard balls.
2.	No clubs, belts, ropes, etc., are to be used.
3.	Referees, who will be conspicuously identified, are not to be interfered with in any way.
4.	No shoes are to be worn in the flag rush.
5.	Women are excluded from the flag rush.
6.	There shall be no animal life used, dead or alive.”
"Worsts of the week"
BY STANISLAUS MAVEETY
Lament of a Moth—Dying of Old Age
I’m a poor old moth And dying quick But not by that old Candle trick.
I listened to mother
And thereby learned How wise young moths
Avoid getting burned.
I never got singed In the wicked flame
But found my life Exceedingly tame.
“As a finisher upper we will now repeat the undisputedly worst joke of the week—we repeat—
Mem. of Inter-Fraternity Council— “Mr. President, we need a cuspidor.” Pres, of Inter-Fraternity Council— “Mr. Jones, I appoint you cuspidor.”
—Daily Northwestern Modestly, but correctly titled.
Across Country via Headlines
FRESHMEN END HELL WEEK ON MONDAY BY SUCCESSFUL REVOLT ON FIRST NIGHT
—The Hoya—Georgetown U.
❖
Charlie Spivak’s Band Signed For Homecoming, Oct. 25
—Purdue Exponent ❖
BOB HOPE GUEST STAR
AT FRESHMAN HAZING
—The Greyhozmd
—Loyola, Baltimore, Md.
JURK OUT FOR GOOD
—Daily Californian
Plea for Purge at Temple
An editorial in the Temple University Nezus advises the student body and University authorities that “forewarned is forearmed.” Last year a radical group of students were barred from campus activity. This year the same group is attempting to reorganize under the title of “United Front.” The group claims to have changed its views from last year, but the Nezus warns:
“We are not sure what it means by a ‘United Front,’ but if it is anything like the past activities of the organization, we are sure the University wants none of it.
“It is of course only a coincidence that this change of heart occurs after Soviet Russia has become a bedfellow of the United States and Great Britain, and Soviet agents are saying that they have been against Hitler all along.
“Even so, we caution the Commission and the student body to think twice and take into account past records before considering proposals brought forth by any group which has made a strange and complete change of policy.”	.
THE WEEK
—By JIM O'LAUGHLIN
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
Top of the Week:
Saturday noon to Monday night....
Near Catastrophe:
Football week-ends bring relatives and friends from all over the country. One sophomore, Omer Sturm, who lives in Morrissey Hall, was caught by the excitement of the Arizona game, and made plans to have his girl come up for the Indiana contest. So far, so good—but mademoiselle decided that the trip would be very lonely, so she brought nine girl friends along.
Then Omer couldn’t get them any rooms in South Bend, so the gals had to catch their “winks” at Plymouth, Ind., which is a small metropolis about 26 miles from here! Next came the problem of dates for Saturday night. Omer fixed up five of the uninvited visitors, but that was the best he could do—and the rains played on. Evidently the “fems” didn’t like that, and they all came near not putting in an appearance, which would have established some sort of a record for an N. D. man.... just imagine—if one fellow were stood up by ten girls on the same night!
❖
Hide Your Face, Jim!
“I think that plan has untold possibilities.
❖
Didn't Even Wait Til! Saturday. . . .
“The Week” found occasion to drop into the Postoffice last Friday. Noticing a Scholastic mailing envelope in the waste basket, we investigated further and also found the Scholastic which had been distributed that same day. The name on the envelope was that of a popular English professor.
❖
Boner of the Week:
Names are omitted from this tale for very obvious reasons. It seems that two Seniors were doing the town one afternoon when they bumped into a
mutual friend—yes a gal—who was accompanied by her girl friend. Well, introductions were made and like all N.D. men, this pair failed to catch the stranger’s last name. The quartet then hustled to the nearest fountain for cokes. While chewing ice and puffing cigarettes, the Seniors entertained—so they thought— their guests by mimicking and condemning a certain N.D. prof. As they reached the crescendo of their hilarity, their newly-made acquaintance stood up and while reaching for her purse, bellowed: “Pardon me, but that man is my father!”
And so goes the Monogram Initiation!
Here and There:
“Big Joe” Papa was looking for a room in Walsh last week. . . . the trouble?.... well, it seems as though Joe would prefer Walsh “wolves” (bipeds) to Sorin rats ( of the rodent species).... Scene of the Week: Monogrammers shooting popguns and chasing corks.... what price fame?.... Team gets lots of slumber: the managers get nice numbers .... at Georgia Tech.... The Cafeteria thinks up a new name for cold sardines .... Pete Stewart liked that southern hospitality to the extent of inviting one of those peaches to the Junior Prom... Last Friday afternoon found Frank Lavelle, Al Bergman and Joe Barr sitting in the Oliver lobby, looking (not the lobby) for Peru, Indiana on an Illinois road map!.... their ultimate destination was St. Louis—hometown of one Saint Mary’s Belle.... Bill, “Super Scooper” Scanlan is the first N.D. man to receive tea at a St. Mary’s tea dance.... the donor was Jane Hoyer, who, by the way is writing the gossip column for Static, St. Mary’s publication.... this from 3-0567: “Go ahead! It’s your nickel!”
❖
Bottom of the Week:
8:00 class Tuesday....
SATURDAY, OCT. 18:
Alaska Day, walrus and polar bear steaks feature the evening meal.
Carnegie Tech vs. Notre Dame, at Pittsburgh, broadcast over WSBT, dial 960, 1:00 p.m.
South Bend Central vs. Mishawka, high school football in the University stadium, plenty of fight, l::00 p.m.
Movie, “Love Thy Neighbor,” Fred Allen and Jack Benny in their version of the good neighbor policy, or charity doesn’t begin at home, “March of Time,” 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
Victory Dance, Indiana Club, sponsored by the Notre Dame Biology Club, 8:15 p.m.
SUNDAY, OCT. 19:
Mission Sunday, remember Bengal Ben.
Interhall football teams take to Car-tier Field for first games, 9:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
MONDAY OCT. 20:
Newscast by Jim McDonough and Vail Pischke, WSBT, 8:45 p.m.
TUESDAY, OCT. 21:
Opening of K. of C Recreation Hall, Walsh basement, free smokes for all, 2:00 p.m.
Student Commission for Decent Literature mails Scholastics to Notre Dame men in service and Army chaplains. More campus men are needed for this work; see Louis Kurtz, 121 Dillon, at 4:30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 22:
Academy of Politics, first meeting and banquet, place to be announced, 7:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, OCT. 23:
Sportscast by Jack Morrison and Dan Gentile, WSBT, 8:45 p.m.
FRIDAY, OCT. 24:
Cross-country dual track meet, Notre Dame at Michigan Normal, Ypsilanti, Mich.
Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale swings open with Jimmy Joy and his Bundles of Joy, 2:00 permissions meet with much favor by overworked students.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
OCTOBER 17, 1941
Number 4
FINAL PLANS COMPLETED FOR ADVERTISING COURSE
“Notre Dame has received an exclusive grant to conduct classes in Outdoor Advertising—and Notre Dame is the only University in the country which has such a course,” Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce announced this week after he returned from representing the school at the Golden Anniversary Convention of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Inc., at Los Angeles, Calif., Oct. 5-10.
Dean McCarthy stated that, due to certain changes in policy, eligibility for instruction in the special class in outdoor advertising will be extended to a limited number of juniors. Consequently letters of application from both seniors and juniors will be accepted up to and including Saturday of this week.
While at the Los Angeles convention, Dean McCarthy took a prominent part in the program entitled, “Public Relations,” held on Oct. 8. He described the nature and type of instruction which the selected candidates will receive at Notre Dame. Between 400 and 500 attended the convention. Speaking on the same program with Dean McCarthy were such outstanding figures in the Outdoor Advertising field as E. C. Donnelly, Jr., presiding officer and president of John Donnelly and Sons; Merle L. McGinnis, educational director of Braun and Co.; Charles W. Collier, managing director of the Pacific Advertising Association; Henry T. Ewald, president of the Campbell-Ewald Co., Inc., and chairman of the board, National Outdoor Advertising Bureau; and Dr. Miller McClintock, auditor, traffic audit bureau.
According to present plans, selection of seniors and juniors for the full year course will be made within the next week. Day classes are to begin the week of Oct. 26 with members of the resident faculty, Dean McCarthy, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., and Herbert F. Klingman, all of the College of Commerce, in charge.
From time to time many executives of the outdoor advertising field, including
some who attended the Los Angeles convention, will visit Notre Dame to lecture, supervise and otherwise help in conducting the course.—Bill Scanlan
Father Lahey and Dean McCarthy
32 Candidates Undergo Monogram Club Initiation
The Monogram club held its first meeting last week. Paul Lillis, football captain, acted as president, as no officer had been elected by last year’s club. First bit of business was the election of new officers. Hercules Bereolos was named president; Bob Hargrave, vice-president; and Ed Sullivan, secretary - treasurer. All three are members of the football squad.
Initiations for 32 candidates for the club was the main topic of discussion. Jim Brutz and Bob Dove, because of their gentle and brotherly attitude, were placed in charge. Immediately the two steel workers from Youngstown, Ohio, went into a huddle and called for a
A call for informal snapshots to be used in the 1942 Dome was issued last week by Joe Hillenbrand, Editor. He said that any students having shots can get in contact with him at 254 Dillon. A remuneration will be offered if pictures are accepted.
meeting of all prospective members. The meeting was held in the fieldhouse where Brutz and Dove explained their strategy behind the coming initiation. Brutz stated that in view of the national emergency, he felt that the Monogram club should do its bit for national defense and so established the “draftee theme.”
Clean Shirts Part of Initiation
All candidates were to secure a popgun and soldier hat, plus a bow tie, clean shirt and suit coat. The lower part of the uniform was to be supplied by ’ Quartermaster J. W. McAllister, consisting of a pair of sweat pants cut off at the knees and high baseball stockings. The footwear consists of one white and one black shoe to guide their feet while on sentry duty.
The Monogram’s own R.O.T.C. members were to live the life of an active soldier, rising at 5 ajn., followed by a cool wash in the lake. The campus “cadets” were instructed in the manual of arms and the correct way of addressing Monogram members. Major Brutz and Major Dove then closed the meeting with a pep talk on the need of great Monogram club members in these hard times and a reminder that court would be held Wednesday night for all delinquents.	.
All candidates were advised to secure paddles in the event that reprisals were meted out by the Monogram court. Rituals were slated for Sunday afternoon. The 32 candidate members include:
Baseball: Fischer, Metzger, Nowicki, Mike Kelly and Campagna.
Basketball: Quinn, Butler, Singer, Captain Pope.	.
Track: Riordan, Dillon, O’Rourke, Delaney, Fehlig, Hunter, Conforti, Maloney, Smith, Vicars, Weitoff, Tupta, Gibson and Nicholson. .
Managers: William Kelly, Bermingham, Meehan, Carr, Walsh, Stewart, Baurer and Morrison.
Cheer leader: Ted McDonald.
Football Monogram winners will he initiated later in the year, after the conclusion of the football season.
—Eddie Sullivan
5
. . . "Farewell! To you, Indian Summer" . . .
6
ADMINISTRATION
COURSES IN PLANT SAFETY BEGUN AT NOTRE DAME
With many of her sons answering the clarion call of military service, the officials of Notre Dame do not feel that their job for Uncle Sam is yet completed. Not content with the inauguration of the Naval R.O.T.C., Notre Dame has taken one more step in the march of national defense.
Beginning last week, under the financial direction of the United States Office of Education as a project in its defense training course, classes in plant safety were instituted here at the University. The course will consist of 12 lessons covering the history of the safety movement and its significance, problems of human behavior in safety work, the cost of accidents, and practical points in accident prevention. The course is under the supervision of Rev. James D. Trahey, formerly prefect of discipline, and classes will be conducted from 7 till 9 p.m. twice weekly. Prof. J. A. Northcott, Jr., will be in personal charge of the course.
A notable commentary on this new approach to the national safety and wellbeing of factory workers is the proficiency and suitability of its staff of two instructors. They are well-versed men chosen from their appropriate fields of endeavor to which they have devoted their lives. B. A. Grainger, safety engineer of the Bendix Products division; and J. J. Raytkich, safety engineer of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Manufacturing Co. constitute the teaching staff. As supplementary training, sound films and slides will be used.
Fr. Trahey believes that the progress of efficiency in industrial production will be the deciding factor in the present war. It is pointed out by Fr. Trahey that in this war 18 men “at home” are needed to keep one man at the front, as compared with five men per soldier for the first so called Great War. Regardless of the political issues of isolation or intervention, the fact remains, that we are in an emergency for which we are unprepared, and the only reasonable thing to do is to build up our defenses as rapidly as possible.
Last year Congress appropriated money to train approximately 135,000 men and this year an additional appropriation will provide for the training of about 300,000 workers.
More than 75 applications have been received by the University for these classes, necessitating the formation of two divisions.
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.
Father Cunningham at Meeting In Washington
Finally swinging into action on a committee appointment that he became aware of late last spring, the Rev. William F. Cuunningham, C.S.C., attended last week-end the first meeting in Washington, D. C., of the general advisory committee on Inter-American Educational Relations of the United States office of- Education, made up of 12 of the leading educators in the country.
Outstanding among the other members of the committee are: Leo S. Rowe, director of the Pan American Union in Washington, D. C., Herbert E. Bolton, of the University of California’s famous department of South American history, a man reputed to be the outstanding expert on the subject in the country; and Francis Spaulding, dean of School of Education, Harvard University. Eight members of the U. S. Office of Education committee also attended the sessions.
The opening sessions of the meeting were occupied with reports by the heads of U. S. Inter-American organizations on the work their organizations are doing. The opening report was delivered by the U. S. Commissioner of Education. After this brief Inter-American report a discussion took place on the present efforts of the U. S. Department of Education in this field. Present efforts appreciated, suggestions will be forthcoming on other procedures. The final meeting on Saturday closed with a summary of tentative statements of proposed office programs.
Social Work Training Essential, Says Hess
Loren J. Hess, chief probation officer of the St. Joseph' circuit and superior courts, and a faculty member of the department of sociology, participated in a panel discussion, “The Function of Probation,” at the meeting of the Chicago Academy of Criminology, held at the Medical and Dental Arts club, Chicago, on Friday evening, Oct. 10, 1941.
The discussion was led by Mr. Richard A. Chappell, U. S. chief of probation, Washington, D. C. Other members of the panel were Hon. Jacob Braude, judge of the municipal court of Chicago and Thomas D. Eliot, professor of sociology, Northwestern University.
Mr. Hess confined his‘ remarks to the subject of “Probation Personnel.” He pointed out that while personnel standards in the field of probation are extremely low generally, there are a few probation departments which are leading the way to the acceptance of the view that professional social work training is an essential in sound probation work. According to Mr. Hess, “We can hardly accept the untrained probation officer, no matter how pleasing his job, as he will not be able to define problems, nor to use community resources unless he has benefitted by training in an approved school of social work, which training must include supervised field work.” He advocated as a minimum at least one full year of graduate work in a school of social work and suggested that prospective probation officers complete a three months period of interneship at a recognized probation or parole department or in an acceptable correctional institution.
7
Prof. Flynn Reappointed To State Parole Board
Professor Frank T. Flynn, assistant professor of social work and a member of the American Association of Social Workers, was reappointed this past August to the board of trustees at the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City. Mr. Flynn has been a member of the board since 1937.
The four members of the board of trustees, who are appointed annually by the governor of Indiana, care for the administration of the prison and administer the parole system within the limits set by the state legislature. The board meets twice a month for 16 or 18 hours to discuss administration and hear parole cases.
It was Mr. Flynn’s work in sociology, which branches into criminology, that has brought him five successive appointments to the board. During his first three years on the board of trustees Professor Flynn was also manager of the South Bend Community Fund and executive secretary of the South Bend Council of Social Agencies.
Final Centennial Plans
Under Consideration
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., general chairman of the Centennial, reports that much progress has been made on the plans for the observation of Notre Dame’s 100th Anniversary.
Opening officially with the September of 1942, the Centennial program will move in a majestic series of events to its close in the September of 1943.
Sub-committees made their plans and reports to the general chairman during the summer just ended. The general committee is now making from these colorful pieces, the pattern which will bring world attention to Notre Dame next year.
Announcements in detail of the Centennial program will be made soon, and alumni and friends will be acquainted with the development of the many splendid phases under consideration.
In the meantime, Father Cavanaugh urges students with any suggestions for making the Centennial memorable, to submit these to the Centennial committee while there is still time to fit them in. Once the program is announced, time will demand such intensive attention to its performance that new features will be practically impossible, no matter what their merit.
America is Shelter of World—Dean Manion
In a talk at Indianapolis, Ind., Dr. Clarence Manion, dean of the College of Law, stated that Coumbus on his voyage of discovery was divinely directed that America might become a haven of refuge for all of God’s creatures.
To the congested and strife-torn countries of Europe, America is and has been in the past a sort of practical
Dean Clarence E. Manion
Utopia where the bonds of race, color and creed are practically non-existent, and opportunity is limited only by a man’s ability. In this light, then, Columbus’ discovery of America was a divinely directed act, providing an outlet and release for some of the cares of a troubled mankind. This was the substance of Dr. Manion’s address in the Knights of Columbus auditorium in Indianapolis.
Dr. Manion asserted that there are more nationalities represented in the city of Gary, Ind., than there are in the present European war. The people of Gary and hundreds of similar American cities are not in continual conflict, however, because they are recognized as being created equal in the eyes of God. “You can’t exterminate a Jew, a Pole, or a Czech and admit that all men are created equal,” he said.
Dean Manion is also a member of the national committee of the America First comittee. The announcement of his appointment was made this week by Gen. Robert E. Wood, chairman of the national committee of America First. A vigorous campaign is planned against the changes in the present neutrality legislation.
The Trail of Death
A vivid story of the work of early missionaries among the Indians of northern Indiana, and the removal of the last of the Potawottamies from this section is told in the letters of Father Benjamin Marie Petit, last of the missionaries at Notre Dame before Father Sorin. These letters are incorporated in a book recently published by the Indiana Historical Society in a volume entitled, “The Trail of Death.”
The title is derived from the last trek of the straggling Indian tribe to their new reservation on the Osage River in Kansas. The hardships and tremendous obstacles to which many of the hapless Indians succumbed on the journey, and the feelings of Father Petit, who voluntarily accompanied them to their new home, are given in detail in the letters written by Father Petit to his Bishop and to his family in France.
This final expulsion of the Indians in 1837 climaxed a series of such mass emigrations forced on the tribes of Indiana, Michigan and a large part of northern Illinois by the federal government. A courageous ally and constant source of counsel and succor to the Indians were the missionaries of this territory. One of these was Father Stephen T. Badin, who resided in and about Notre Dame from 1830 to 1835. It was he who built the first log chapel at the eastern end of St. Mary’s Lake, a replica of which now stands on the exact spot. Father Badin also began the work which was to climax in the founding of the University of Notre Dame seven years later.
In 1833 Father Badin was joined by Father Louis Deseille, a Flemish priest who remained until 1873, actively protecting the Indians from unscrupulous government agents. He was finally ordered to leave the reserve by Colonel Pepper, government Indian agent in the territory. Father Deseille, however, remained in the vicinity and died a few months later, on Sept. 26, 1837.
It was then that Bishop Brute ordained and sent Father Petit, a young French priest, recently arrived in this country, to take his place among the Indians. Petit was born April 8, 1811 at Rennes, France, Brute’s native city. He was graduated from the University of Rennes in 1829 and made a brilliant record at the law school from which he graduated in 1832. After three successful years at the bar, he renounced his profession to enter the Seminary of St. Sulpice to become a priest.
It was shortly thereafter that he accompanied his beloved Bishop, to the New World, against the entreaties of his
(Continued on Page 28)
8
Sunken Treasure at N. D.
Sources close to the University revealed this week, that the waters of St. Joseph’s Lake, or perhaps it is St. Mary’s, our informant was vague on this point, conceal untold wealth in gold and jewels. These usually reliable sources reported that the treasure, which consists of an undetermined amount of gold bullion and precious gems, has lain untouched on the lake bottom for over a quarter of a century.
The story of this sunken treasure reads like fiction; perhaps it is. Around the middle of the nineteenth century, before the time of even the hoary and ancient seniors, Napoleon III, impressed by Father Sorin’s work in the New World, donated a priceless gold crown to adorn a statue of the Blessed Lady. The 24 carat gold, or however many carats are in pure gold, was encrusted with scores of rare and costly gems; masterpieces of the lapidists’ art.
By some prank of Fate, this priceless “objet d’art” was lost sight of for many years and well-nigh forgotten. It lay in the attic of the Main building for decades, before someone ran across it and was inspired to use it as a prop in plays given at Washington Hall. In this role the ornament was used and abused while unsuspecting student thespians literally carried a fortune around on their heads. In its generosity, the University often loaned the crown to high schools in South Bend where it received further careless treatment. Ultimately, when the type of play in which the crown was used became unpopular, the precious diadem was discarded, this time to the rubbish heap.
From here on the story reads like the Sunday Supplement. Around the time that the crown was discarded, people became aware of its existence. A frenzied chase ensued, similar to those in the old “mellerdrammers” where pursuers are always one step behind pursued until the last act where justice triumphs and virtue has its own reward. In this case, however, the story did not end so happily. Just as the sleuths had nearly caught up with the elusive trinket, it found its way via garbage can and rubbish heap to the University incinerator. We can imagine them arriving breathless, with “Stop the presses,” or some such applicable expression on their lips, only to find that the treasure had once again escaped them. It had been burnt with the refuse and been consigned to the bottom of the lake. There it rests today.
For identification purposes, a replica of the crown may be seen in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church. Though in no
way rivaling the beauty and grandeur of the original, it provides a good idea of the nature of the treasure which now adorns the bottom of St. Joseph’s Lake.
Fact, fiction or rumor, it is an extraordinary tale. The Scholastic has it from reliable sources that certain merchants in South Bend are offering some excellent bargains in good used diving suits, and operations are expected to be commenced when the ice floes have left for wherever ice floes go in the summer time. Furthermore, the Scholastic assumes no responsibility for cases of colds, pneumonia, chilblains or bends resulting from the frenzied search for easy wealth which will inevitably ensue, when this story becomes public.
—Robert E. Brooks
Fr. Trahey To Attend
Dr. Harmon's Inaugural
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., defense coordinator at the University, will be the University’s official representative Oct. 17 at the inauguration of Dr. Henry G. Harmon as seventh president of Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa. The ceremonies will be held in the University Church of Christ on the Drake campus at 3 p.m.
Dr. Arthur H. Compton, head of the department of physics and dean of the physical sciences division at the University of Chicago, Nobel prize winner and perhaps the world’s foremost experimentalist in radiant energy, will be the inaugural speaker.
Dr. Harmon succeeds the late Dr. Daniel W. Morehouse, eminent astronomer and president of Drake since 1923, whose death last January ended 40 years of service to the university.
University Controls
Broadcasts of Games
The first three games of Notre Dame’s football schedule have been broadcast by a commercial sponsor under restrictions established by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics.
Permission for the broadcasts have been granted, up to the limit of existing facilities, on the basis of the size of networks or stations requesting such permission, and without respect to whether the broadcasts are commercial or non-commercial.
The University maintains strict control over the number, type, and length of commercial announcements; and the products and services advertised must be in keeping with the dignity and propriety of the University, Father Cavanaugh said.
While no charge is made for unsponsored broadcasts, stations making commercial broadcasts are charged a fee, these revenues going for the construction and maintenance of radio booths. No exclusive rights have been sold to any station or sponsor. Any profits in this connection go into the general fund of the University along with other athletic profits, to offset partially, Notre Dame’s lack of large endowment, and to help fulfill the more existing needs of the University.
European Students
Gain Degrees Earlier
Some interesting comparisons between the carefully regulated student life in America and the more or less free and easy scholastic life in Europe before the war, were given this week by Prof. James .Fitzgerald of the philosophy department.
After Prof. Fitzgerald’s undergraduate days at Boston College, he went to the University of Louvain in Belgium. There he found the hopelessness common to the carefully nurtured American student on coming in contact with a completely impersonal system. The function of the teacher in this system consisted in the careful preparation of a well de-’veloped lecture. To help matters along, the whole thing was in French and although Prof. Fitzgerald had a working knowledge of the language, he found after the first two or three lectures that his working knowledge wasn’t working so well. There were no definite assignments and the student was, in every sense of the word, on his own.
All of the graduate students lived in apartments, usually in small groups with private famiies. Student life centered on the continental version of the celebrated American “bull session.” The general tendency of these discussions was to view the problem in the student’s field of work from the practical point of view. Since most of Prof. Fitzgerald’s friends were medical students, it is not unlikely that a great many unfortunate individuals were dissected over the dinner table.
The combination of the impersonal system and the seriousness of the student contacts probably explains in part the tremendous self discipline the method develops. The European student is likely to be more mature and to gain his degree at an earlier age than the American student.
The disadvantage of the system includes the impossibility of anticipating the questions on the all-important final examination and the likelihood that the pleasant customs of coffee drinking'and card playing will interfere seriously with the student’s studies.
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers ..................  ...Managing	Editor Don Heltzel................................Campus Editor
William Scanlan ............................  Promotion	John A. Lynch ............................Photo Editor
John Binges ............................  Sports	Editor Ed Drinkard .«.......................  Staff	Photographer
William Baader ..........................    Art	Editor Elmer Silha .................................^Advertising
Robert E. Brooks..................Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C...............Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
DEATH TRAP
Last Saturday night we had a good close look at the famous “death-trap” that exists at that point on the Dixie highway near the St. Mary’s entrance. We came away convinced that the most important thing the University Administration, South Bend’s Mayor Jesse I. Pavey and- the St. Joseph valley Notre Dame club can do right now is to take measures to lessen or eliminate this hazard to the life and limb of students of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Last Saturday night was not extraordinary. There was the usual traffic between South Bend and Niles, six lanes of speeding automobiles. There was also the usual minority in the out-going traffic, while fifteen or twenty cabs that had edged out to the left lane of traffic to make the turn into St. Mary’s were moving very slowly or entirely stationary in this very mobile traffic lane, waiting for a lull in the on-coming rush of cars. With the essential elements of a good trap present, it didn’t take long for what was almost Death to appear. An automobile in the out-going traffic came speeding on to the scene. The driver, caught off guard at the sight of the string of cars stalled in the “fast” lane, applied the brakes, wheeled his car away from the stationary cabs, skidded sideways past them amid the terrifying squeal of scorched tires and careened across the in-coming traffic-lane to come to an indestructive stop near the entrance. Fortunately for the twenty-five or thirty people within ten feet of the skidding automobile, there was no physical damage done.
It cannot be promised that students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will continue to be as fortunate as long as the conditions which made possible this near-accident are allowed to prevail.
At present the only regulation affecting the hazard is an elastic thirty-mile speed limit. Any number of additional devices would seem to be helpful in reducing the hazard. Prime help would be the enforcing of a fifteen or twenty-mile limit such as guaranteed in ordinary “School Zones.” Every rural school with enrollments from fifteen to one-hundred and fifty have these protective zones which are respected on even the busiest traffic arteries. Yet students of the University and of St. Mary’s are placed on unequal terms with the Dixie Highway.
What is certainly needed at the College entrance is the installation of inexpensive amber lights which will enable
the traffic minority to get across and also slow down speeding automobiles
Whatever the traffic measures enforced, the University and the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame Club, should see to it that Mayor Pavey is aware of it, and does something to remove the hazard.
We could summon a fairly lengthy
QUIZ KIDS AT THE MOVIES
They’re at it again! Those clever, little fellows who charmed us so at the pep rallies have been offering their talent at Washington Hall every Saturday night. We’re almost proud of them. In their own way they are unique—the only persons in the world who are completely unfettered by the bonds of good manners. Full of a sort of nauseating good cheer, they bounce merrily along the high road of boorishness, list of adjectives to
apply to these fugitives from a kindergarten. Stupid, elephantine, coarse, vulgar, moronic, childish, adolescent, are just fair samples. But it really is only a waste of time. They thrive on abuse.
Let us suggest a different angle. The next time some overgrown child explodes in ecstasy at the mention of his home town, or bounces up and down in his seat screaming and whistling when some girl crosses the screen, simply turn around and say: “Grow up, buddy!” It’s twice as effective as a snarled “Quiet!”
One thing is certain. For our own integrity we must put a stop to these spoiled brats. Otherwise they will be encouraged by this tacit approval and may even fancy themselves to be Notre Dame men. That would be something we could never tolerate.
A REMINDER
Because, in a few instances, we have found that the Scholastic’s policy was not fully understood, we wish to state again that our sole aim is to make this a student magazine representative of student opinion. We have no intention of “leading” student reaction but only “reflecting” it. We manifestly do not intend to initiate controversies, but rather to present the student viewpoint when such controversy has arisen. We shall always strive to be the mirror and not the lens of campus life.
10
CAMPUS NEWS
REAR ADMIRAL TOPS NAVY DAY PROGRAM
An address by Rear Admiral C. W. Nimitz, U.S.N., will highlight the first observation of Navy Day at Notre Dame, on Monday, Oct. 27. The ceremonies will be the first since the establishment of a Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps on the campus this fall.
Commander F. M. McWhirter, U.S.N., commander of the Indiana Navy Area, and Paul E. Fisher, Indiana Navy Day chairman, will meet Rear* Admiral Nimitz at Plymouth to escort him to Notre Dame, where he is scheduled to address the student body and members of the faculty at 11:00 a.m. in Washington Hall. Freshmen classes will be suspended for the address, and all other students who are free at 11 o’clock are urged to attend. Rear Admiral Nimitz will be the honor guest of President J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., at luncheon and shortly after will go to Indianapolis to administer the Naval Oath to men recruited for the Navy by the American Legion. This ceremony will take place on the steps of the Soldiers and Sailors monument in Indianapolis.
Plans are as yet incomplete for the celebration of Navy Day at Notre Dame, but members of the Naval Reserve Unit here will parade, if their recently-ordered uniforms are available. Next week’s Scholastic will carry a complete program of events for the celebration of Navy Day.
Another announcement from Naval headquarters forecast competition with The Scholastic for next week when the first issue of The Irish Pennant, a newspaper published and edited by mem
. . . . V Stands for NaVy. . . .
bers of the Notre Dame Naval Officers Reserve Corps, makes its appearance. The paper, an eight-page mimeographed bulletin, will be edited by Stewart F. Murphy of Brownson Hall, who was elected to the post last week by members of the corps. The remainder of the staff is tentative and will not be definitely chosen until after the first few issues have appeared.
The title of the paper is particularly apt, for in naval jargon an Irish pennant is the name for any loose rigging aboard a ship. The aim of the new mag-agine is to publish certain “Loose ends” of news concerning the naval reserve corps here, naval news which does not find its way into other local papers, and to keep the reservists informed on numerous naval developments which do not appear in the work of the classroom. A humor section also is planned. The first issue will appear on or about Navy Day, October 27.
A rifle range has been set up, and almost completely equipped, in the space under the stands near gate 14 of the Notre Dame Stadium. Naval Reservists are already at work on their marksmanship and have received several challenges of matches from nearby naval reserve schools.
The range will be open to other students at the University, according to Captain H. B. Burnett of the Notre Dame R.O.T.C. unit. Those students not enrolled in the corps, however, will have to furnish their own ammunition for the .22 long rifles which will be used in the range.—Dick Kilmer
Central Illinois Club
The newly reorganized “Central Illinois Club” will hold its first “mixer meeting” of the schoolyear on Wednesday evening, October 22, at 7:10 in room 117 of the Main Building. The short program will include election of officers and discussion of activities for the coming year. All those from central Illinois are urged to attend!
Speakers Bureau Gets Activities Under Way
A new determination manifested itself at the last meeting of the Notre Dame Speakers’ bureau. After two years of struggling through ups and downs, a good, solid group which has been thoroughly tested remains. Upon this foundation there are hopes of building a really great organization. A constitution, which had been neglected up to now, was drawn up. Each member eagerly contributed his ideas in the completion of this document. Enthusiasm was increased as President John Specht of Chicago, Ill., related to the small, efficient group the importance of the work. Rev. John Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., founder and religious adviser of the organization, expressed his gratitude for the interest shown by the members.
Secretary - treasurer C. S. Coco, of Lake Charles, La., announced that contact has been made with approximately 20 parishes in and around South Bend. A few of the speakers have already been called upon this year. At present, a new system, which aims to create a greater interest and participation on the part of the audience, is being tested. For this system to function, not one, but two speakers are present at each gathering. The main speaker discusses the principles and fundamentals of the topic for some 20 minutes. At this point his assistant breaks in with a question or two. Others should begin to take part in the discussion as this continues. If not, the assistant turns and questions the audience directly, or he may take the opposite point of view and make necessary the defense of the declared proposition. In this way, all are urged to take an active part in the meeting. This system was first introduced at St. Joseph’s parish on the evening <of Oct. 8 and proved a great success.
The list of speeches has been augment
11
ed and only those which have appeal to the various organizations addressed are prepared.
Several applications for membership have been received by the organization. The procedure for admittance is as follows: First, an interview with Father O’Neil. The applicant, if considered capable, will be assigned a subject for a talk. Secondly, this talk, about 15 or 20 minutes, is given to the members of the organization at their next meeting. The members are the ones who give the final vote of acceptance or rejection. Those now applying for membership are James Poinsatte of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Mark McGrath of the Canal Zone.
Present members of the organization are John Specht, C. S. Coco, John Utz, Rochester, Minn.; Bill Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y.; Frank King, Jamaica, N. Y.; Gerald Gaffney, New York City, and John Malone, Toledo, Ohio.—C. S. Coco
Soph Urges Catholicism
Basis for Pan-America Link
Urging that the United States open its eyes to the depth of Catholic sentiment in Pan-American countries, Mark McGrath, a Notre Dame student from Ancon, Canal Zone, addressed the men of Holy Cross parish, South Bend at a Communion breakfast in the Holy Cross auditorium Sunday morning.
McGrath, a member of the Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau stated, in order that the United States reach a sincere and lasting union with Latin America, it must appeal to the people of the Latin nations. He pointed out that a strong uniting factor must be found— ■“a factor that will urge these people to sacrifice some national interests for the Pan-American ideal.” This, according to McGrath, must be a truly substantial element and not the expedient and superficial cajoling of political alliances. These alliances were cited by McGrath as “made with South American leaders who have not the moral backing of their people.”
Having pointed out that Latin America is 95 per cent Catholic, although a majority of its leaders are liberal and atheistic, McGrath urged that this factor would do nothing for Catholicism. He stressed the importance of the United States opening its eyes to the depth of Catholic sentiment in the Latin nations, stating that if this were done our country’s ambassadors would “be Catholic, or at least informed and appreciative of Catholicism.” Then, Mr. McGrath stated, our country’s members on Pan-American committees would not be materialists, liberalists, and atheists of all degrees; nor would its ambassadors of good will be loose-moraled, divorced motion picture actors.
McGrath concluded his address by remarking that “only through Catholicism can we expect a warm handclasp from the people of South America instead of the present transitory commercial and pseudo-education alliances with its self-appointed leaders.”—Dave Condon
Wranglers Interview
Membership Applicants
Came the call this week from the Wranglers for membership applications and interhall debate aspirants. The
WILLIAM MEIER
Wranglers, an honorary campus forensic society, held its first meeting of the 1941 - ’42 schoolyear last Thursday. Main business at this meet was the appointing of the various committees for the year. The two committees with the most cur
rent business are the membership and interhall debating groups. Charles Kearney is chairman of the former. Membership applicants are first given private interviews, then those who survive are asked to speak at a meeting of the entire club. At this meeting the final vote is taken.
Stanley Littizette is chairman of interhall debate, assisted by Mark Lies. Calls for interhall debaters went out this week. Within another week the first round schedules will be ready. Last year, Alumni Hall talked its way through to the interhall supremacy. A hall trophy is awarded to the victor in the interhall finals.
President of the Wranglers, William Meier, who also heads the Economic Round Table, is a varsity debater and holds the highest average in the University, 96.12. Prof. Francis J. O’Malley is faculty moderator of the organization. The Wranglers meet every Thursday at which time a paper is presented by some member of the club. The papers, usually on controversial current topics, are then discussed by the other members of the club.—Robert LeMense
Initial Meeting of Round Table Held
At the Rose Marie Tea Room, every Wednesday, there meets a group of Notre Dame men to eat — yes, but primarily to discuss the pro and con of the present day economic situation. The group is chartered under the name of the Economic Round Table. Last Wed
nesday the first of these meetings for this year was held.
The initial meeting was concerned mostly with setting up the various committees to carry on the club work during the year. The membership committee has already gone into action and the announcement of the newly-admitted members was scheduled for some time this week. Each applicant was given a preliminary interview.
First paper of the year was read Wednesday by Dave Johnson. This paper presentation is a weekly affair of the group. Each member presents at least one during the course and then acts as a quasi middle man in the ensuing discussion on the subject.
William Meier, whose accomplishments are mentioned in another article in this issue, is president of the Round Table. Professor William Downey, head of the department of economics, is the faculty advisor of the group.
—Robert LeMense
Song Writing Team Plans New Musical Comedy
Upperclassmen and the South Benders who nearly split their sides laughing at “It Never Rains,” musical comedy of last year, will be given an opportunity to complete the job, since a show of the same caliber is being planned for the coming year.
While the majority of the cast of last year’s show, a parody on the draft, have graduated, married, or ironically enough, been drafted, there still remains a nucleus which should be capable of staging an equally successful comedy this year. Dick Hines and John Kelley, the song-writing team that was laregly responsible for the success of the first show, are now laboring over musical scores in preparation for 'the coming show. Ed Walsh, a senior manager, and Dave Curtan, cheerleader, who were associated with last year’s production are also working hard to insure another success.
Last year’s show was independent of any connection with the University, and was produced in Central High auditorium at South Bend, with several girls from the high school acting in the feminine parts.
Some idea of the success of the show may be gathered from the fact that the proceeds amounted to approximately $1,500, all of which was donated to “Bundles for Britain.” In addition to this material donation, the comedy contributed much towards promoting good feeling between the student body and the populace of South Bend.
12
Members of Propeller Club Hold Meeting
The first meeting for the year of the Notre Dame Port of the Propeller Club was held recently. Frederick Paulmann was chosen as president, and John Bis-ese as secretary-treasurer for the coming year. An outline of tentative plans was given for the coming season’s activities, which includes a Communion breakfast, a banquet, and a possible excursion to Chicago. Mr. Herbert Bott, professor in the Foreign Commerce school, was chosen again to be the faculty adviser. ■
Where to 'Bum' Your Smokes
. Being a freshman, every little odd fact puzzles me. Last Thursday morning I stared upon a Philip Morris advertisement announcing winners of the previous weeks’ football forecasting.
Seven fellows won a carton each and 87 more captured 50 cigarettes each as a result of picking the exact score of one contest.
To involve myself in mathematics I amazingly figured out that exactly 5,750 cigarettes were handed out to Notre Dame students. To complete this amazing discovery I further discovered that 5,750 cigarettes amount to exactly 28.75 cartons of cigarettes.
The seven lucky fellows to win cartons were E. Freeman, R. Hughes, C. Degar, C. Clapham, M. Minder, M. Meier, and C. McGuire.
N. D. Band Prepares For
Five Crucial Encounters
A new enthusiasm has taken over in the ranks of the Notre Dame Band. Preparations are well under way for approaching activities. With the student trip to Baltimore now settled, plans are rapidly becoming realities in the development of formations and special arrangements. No time is to be lost as there are four (and possibly five) games which the band is to attend within the coming five weeks.
Then too, there is the concert season. Several compositions have already been introduced to the band within the past two weeks, and they have shown great interest and skill, rendering these surprisingly well for so short a time. At the present rate, it should not be long before the concert band makes its first appearance of the year.
Basketball is not in the too distant future, with its demands for pre-game and half-time entertainment. It’s even possible that Director Cassasanta may have several new numbers to take the place of the much - demanded “Tiger Rag.”
Last Tuesday at 12:45, a very special
meeting of all the band members was held. At this session, a set of new rules and regulations was read to the members by President Donald Petersen. A strict check of attendance is to be made in the future.
In fact, the system of cuts, so familiar to the student body, has been introduced with the approval of Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline. Such action was brought about by the members of the band themselves. Their aim for the year is to set a record in the line of achievement and to improve the Notre Dame Band in every possible way.
—C. S. Coco
Metropolitan Club Plans Annual Army Game Trip
The Metropolitan Club held its first meeting on Thursday, Oct. 9, in the audi-
torium of the
MATTY BYKNE
Later, President
Engineering Building. About 150 members, including freshmen, attended the session. The main purpose of the gathering was to get an accurate estimate of the number of members planning t o make the trip to the Notre Dame - Army game on Nov. 1. Matty Byrne outlined
the club’s activities for the coming year.
During the latter part of the meeting a discussion of the annual Christmas dance was brought up, but no decisions have been made.
History of Notre Dame Partially Completed
Like Rome, the University of Notre Dame was not built in a day. And no one is more aware of that fact than Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., and his aides who are compiling a detailed 100-year history of Notre Dame to appear in January, 1943.
Father Hope has completed the writing of five chapters of the volume from a wealth of material collected during the past half-dozen years by Professor James A. Corbett. Mr. Corbett was appointed by Father O’Hara to investigate the University and Provincial archives, besides those of the General Administration. Professor Farrell, former member of the faculty, was the third member of the trio of historians. He devoted his time to perusing all old newspapers dating from 1842 for items about the University.
Among other things, the detailed history treats of life of the students, the discipline, and regulations, the curricu
lum, and emphasizes the ideal of spiritual development of undergraduates, which has always been a signal distinction of Notre Dame. Of special interest also is the treatment of the malaria plague in 1854, the great fire of 1879, the continual struggle against poverty, and the intellectual growth of the institution after the Civil War.
—Tom Clemens
Engineers Formulate Professional Code
During 1940-41, D. C. Jackson, Jr., dean of the College of Engineering, conducted for senior engineers and senior architects, a series of weekly lectures and discussions. During the second semester of the year, the students considered the subject of Professional Ethics, reviewing the Codes of Professional Ethics established by the national professional societies corresponding to the curricula in the College of Engineering.
It was apparent to the seniors that these codes are generally of greater value by far to men who have been in the practice of their profession for ten years or more than to recent graduates. As a result, the students devised a simple code for their guidance during the first five years after their graduation.
This code is as follows:
“The Engineering Profession, as all other professions, must have a general but efficient standard of ethics if there is to be any unison between the practicing engineer and his neighbor. Moreover, it is only proper that the young engineer should have a definite course to follow in his future relationship with clients and fellow professional men. Therefore, we, the graduating class of 1941 from the Engineering College of the University of Notre Dame, propose the following code as a guide along our selected path in life.
As young engineers we will:
1.	Demonstrate honesty, sincerity, fairness and honor in all our professional dealings.
2.	Abstain from all actions which, either directly or indirectly would detract from the reputation, prospects, or professional undertakings of a fellow engineer.
3.	Place our qualifications as engineers before the public in a dignified and conservative manner.
4.	Consider information which concerns technical data, methods or processes and business affairs, as well as all information which is not common public knowledge, to be strictly confidential and not within our rights to divulge.
5.	Direct our actions toward the best interests of public welfare and supply our knowledge, training and skill for the use and benefit of mankind.”
It
FRESHMAN GET-TOGETHER GIVEN BY KNIGHTS
“You are cordially invited to attend a “get-together” as the guest of the Knights of Columbus, on Wednesday evening, October 15, 1941, at 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall.”
This invitation was received by the members of the Freshman Class early this week to attend the “Casey’s” party for them, at
TOM TEAKNEY which they were introduced to the only fraternal organization on campus. The local council, comprised entirely of Notre Dame students, planned the evening for the “Frosh” in order to better acquaint them with the organization and its various activities.
The “get-together” provided a well-balanced evening of entertainment for the enjoyment of the Class of ’45 and they expressed their appreciation with a large turnout. Music was provided by Jack Molloy’s Cavaliers who delighted the audience throughout the program with tunes both sweet and swingy.
The Cavalier opened the program with their theme, “The Man I Love” introducing Tom Tearney of the Knights of Columbus. Tearney gave a Srief talk to the audience, acquainting them -with the K. of C. organization and introducing the acts to follow.
The first act on the program was a ' medley of college songs presented by members of the Glee Club. This formed an effective background for an introduc
... Savord and Mooney... Sophisticated syncopation... Encore after encore.. ,
tion of the captains of the various athletic teams, performed by Joe McArdle, Notre Dame’s ruddy-faced line coach.
Next the two-piano team of Joe Sav-ord and Bill Mooney offered a brilliantly arranged selection of such classic hits as “Begin the Beguine,” “Tea for Two,” and “Temptation.” This team definitely has a flair for the finer points of syncopation. The audience showed their appreciation by demanding encore after encore.
Then Jim McDonough, Notre Dame’s recent contribution to the Fred Allen radio program, presented the Knute Rockne impersonation that he did on the air. In contrast to this dramatic epilogue, Ed “Doc” Walsh, senior equipment manager, presented a skit entitled “What Happens In A Leahy Secret Practice.” This hilarious satire literally “had them in the aisles.”
Jack Molloy’s boys followed with a brace of tunes of the popular variety and Jack Whelan, magician from Howard Hall, contributed some of the sleight-of-hand wizardry to the festivities. Refreshments were served as the Cavaliers finished up the program with some “jump” tunes. Among these were the band’s own composition, “Skoogum B’-Googie,” and “Blues on Parade.”
The last of the band music signified the end of the program and the “Frosh” voiced their approval with thunderous applause. As the last of them drifted out of Washington Hall, we overheard one enthusiastic fellow exclaim, “What a blow-out!”
Father McInerney Is.
New Chaplain of Knights
Last Tuesday at the regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus, Grand Knight Edward Reidy introduced Rev. Walter McInerney, C.S.C., the council’s new chaplain, to the assembled knights.
Although Father McInerney is not very well known to the student body, having been stationed with the Holy Cross Mission Band for four and one half years before beginning religious instructions at the University last February, he is a graduate of Notre Dame, class of 1932.
The new chaplain is one of five brothers in the order, one of them a past state deputy of Massachusetts. He took his degree as a member of Brighton Council, Boston, Mass., in 1926.
As a member of the Knights of Columbus for 15 years and with his experience on the Mission Band, Father McInerney is well qualified for his duties as chaplain of Council 1477. The chaplain’s duties are many and varied. He is the spiritual director of the members and conducts all religious services, particularly the memorial services held each year in November.
Among the former chaplains of Notre Dame Council are such figures as Rev. Paul J. Foik, who died last year, Rev. Eugene Burke, Rev. John Margraf, Rev. John Galligan, Rev. John Reynolds, Rev. Leo Gorman, Rev. Charles M. Carey, and Rev. John D. Gallagher, all members of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Student Trip Ticket Sale
National and international problems are doomed to take a back seat down Baltimore and Washington way as Notre Dame’s “Student Special” juggernaut moves into Baltimore and thence onto Capitol Hill for a few turns on Washington’s famed “Merry-go-round.”
Student Trip chairman, Bob Richardson, announces that tickets will go on sale for two days only, Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 27 and 28, and may be obtained at the treasurer’s office. Expenses for the excursion will total $22.20, including game ticket. Chairman Richardson takes note that this rate is considerably cheaper than last year’s rate on the student safari. Tickets for the ball game will cost $1.85, while reservations have been made at two of Washington’s leading hotels, the Annapolis and the New Colonial where Notre Dame men will headquarter Saturday night.
For those fortunate few who have railroad passes at their disposal, announcement is made that these will be honored. Those planning to use their passes should contact Richardson as soon as possible.
14
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
SIX GAMES OPEN INTERHALL GRID SEASON ON CARTIER FIELD SUNDAY
Dillon and Walsh Halls Are League Favorites
This week definite schedules have been prepared for the Interhall Football League, with the delayed openers set for this Sunday. Originally the new season was to have been unveiled last Sunday, but officials decided the boys needed more seasoning to be at top strength.
During the past week, however, 12 teams have taken definite form. Normally a sore point for any interhall coach, turn-out for week-day practices has been very encouraging. Normal procedure finds four or five players making an attempt at practicing on week-days, followed by a large number all set to play first string when game time comes. This year 15 or 20 boys from each team are out every day. This is particularly true in the case of the Walsh outfit, and they seem to be out for the title.
An attempt has been made to balance the two leagues in respect to talent. The Freshmen have been split up between the two leagues to compensate for their expected weakness. But freshmen are never to be counted out of the battle, because they are intent on forcing the upperclassmen to recognize them.
This year three games will be played in the morning at 9:30, and the other league’s games played at 1:30. The players will meet at Cartier Field 15 minutes before their game time. Here their field will be assigned and the games will be started promptly. The teams must be ready to play at the scheduled time.
Among the freshmen, Brownson and Cavanaugh look better at this time. Among the upperclassmen, Dillon and Walsh appear best. It is this writer’s opinion that the last mentioned teams, being in different leagues, will be there when the play-off game opens, with Walsh given a shade of an advantage. With such names as Deery, Graliker, Clark, Raaf, Daigler, McKay, and Miller, to mention only a few, Walsh seems to have the best outfit as play gets under way.
The schedule is printed below:
League I—Dillon, Brownson, Zahm, Morrissey, Carroll, St. Ed’s.
League II—Walsh, Cavanaugh, Howard, Badin, Lyons, Breen-Phillips.
Oct. 19, 9:30 a.m. — Dillon-Brownson, Zahm-Morrissey, Carroll-St. Ed’s. 1:30 p.m.— Walsh-Cavanaugh, Howard-Badin, Lyons-Breen-Phillips.
Oct. 25, 9:30 a.m.—Brownson-Zahm, Morrissey-Carroll, Dillon-St. Ed’s. 1:30 p.m. — Cavanaugh-Howard, Badin-Lyons, Walsh-Breen-Phillips.
Nov. 2, 9:30 a.m. — Zahm-St.Ed’s, Morrissey-Brownson, Carroll-Dillon. 1:30 p.m. — Howard-Breen-Phillips, Badin-Cavanaugh, Lyons-Walsh.
Nov. 9, 9:30 a.m.—St. Ed’s-Brownson ; Carroll-Zahm, Morrissey-Dillon. 1:30 p.m. — Cavanaugh-Brcen-Phillips, Lyons-Howard, Badin-Walsh.
Nov. 16, 9:30 a.m. — Brownson-Carroll, Zahm-Dillon, Morrissey-St. Ed’s. 1:30 p.m. — Lyons-Cavanaugh, Howard-Walsh, Badin-Breen-Phillips.
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
By "Red" Lonergan
With football gossip sharing the headlines with Europe’s tin soldiers, with all America wondering who will be battling it out in the various bowl games on New Year’s Day, we stick our necks out to bring you our predictions on this year’s -masterpieces.
In the East, Fordham, Navy, Colgate, and Temple seem to be ruling the roost, with the Rams and the Goats butting it out for top honors. Colgate must get by Duke, and Navy by Notre Dame.
In the Mid-West the same old gang is fighting it out. In case you didn’t know, they are Minnesota, Notre Dame, and Northwestern. The Gophers must pass the Wildcats and then the gents from Ann Arbor. Notre Dame will more than have its hands full with Navy and the same Wildcats. Northwestern must get by the Gophers and their old jinx, the Fighting Irish. It looks like a battle for top honors in the Mid-West, said battle to be decided about the time the last ear of com is husked.
Down in Dixie there is all the show of
a real mix-up. The Blue Devils from Duke are leading the race for top, maybe. Tulane’s Green Wave is trying to assume all the proportions of a tidal wave. Maybe the Swamp foxes from Ole Miss know how to get over that wave, and even if ’Bama has lost, it still represents a dangerous threat.
Over in the cow country Texas wants to be boss. S.M.U. is going to give Texas a fight and Rice isn’t just a spectator.
Near the peaceful Pacific we have the surprise of the nation in Oregon State. Last week they upset the “T” from Stanford, a tough job. Stanford is not just a flash-in-the-pan and we will hear some more about the “T” before the season is over. Include Santa Clara in this arena and you have as good a fight as you could want.
So there you are. Maybe you can pick your national champ from that group. We know ours.
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	Who made the system of shock troops famous in football?
2.	Who was credited with making the forward pass a realization in collegiate football?
3.	Can you give the real name of these players? a) The Watchcharm Guard, b) The Gallopin’ Ghost.
4.	Can you name three of the five undefeated and untied teams in last year’s collegiate circles?
- 5. What is the longest ran from scrimmage in collegiate ball?
6. Who is the famous American author who made All-American on Walter Camp’s team in 1889?
(Answers ivill be found in “advertising” this issue.)
RATING
Six correct________________:_______________'_Athletic Director Five correct_________________________________:________________________________1—_Coach Four correct -----------------------------Player Three correct-----------------------------Substitute Two correct-------------------------------:------------------------------Water Boy One correct-------------------------------:_:_Cheer Leader
None correct Monday morning Quarterback
A new type of soybean developed by the extension division of Louisiana State University soon may answer the problem of farmers whose lands now lie fallow because of reduction in cane acreage.
The Tulane University campus covers 100 landscaped acres.
LEAHY ENTERS CARNEGIE CONTEST WITH DUE PREPARATIONS
Should Be Easy Victory For High-Riding Irish
Tomorrow afternoon at Pittsburgh the Irish will attempt to stretch their winning streak to four games at the expense of Carnegie Tech. Although thousands, possibly millions, of fans are already conceding an easy victory for the Irish, Coach Frank Leahy and his staff are taking nothing for granted. For it is their policy to take each game as a definite obstacle to be hurdled and to devote all possible time to the business at hand. The Scotsmen are no exceptions, despite their poor showing to date which includes losses to Westminster and Muhlenberg, while winning only from Albright.
Though Tech, has lost eighteen letter-men by graduation and four more through ineligibility, it is quite certain that Head Coach Eddie Baker will produce the best possible performance from a limited number of inexperienced men. Dr. Baker is still teaching the Warner-Sutherland fundamentals, and that system will form the background. A glance at the weight and experience charts of his players makes it evident that Carnegie will be forced to play a much more open style of game than in the last few years, when such power runners as Con
... The Irish go to play in Tech's back-yard ...
dit, Muha, Laposki, Lee and Camelly were available.
While the Carnegie Tech, football outlook for 1941 is by no means bright, the advent of Notre Dame will naturally cause the Tartans to put forth the very best brand of football of which they are capable. As for the Irish, their expedition to Atlanta resulted in some very valuable experience for the second and third teams, though the presence of the first stringers on the field was responsible for all three touchdowns against Georgia Tech. The duel for individual scoring honors still goes on with righthalf Steve Juzwick picking up 14 points on fullback Evans over the week-end. “Dippy” still leads with twenty-four, while Steve is closing in with twenty-two.
Much of Carnegie’s attack will depend on the playing of Bill Johnson. Johnson, a rugged 195 pounder, was recently switched from fullback to quarterback, in order to make room for sophomore Bill Philipchuk. The starting backfield will probably present Johnson at quai-t-er, Joe Pash and Virgil Cantini, a pair of light-weights, at the halves, and Philipchuk at full. The line, with all seven members of the 1940 unit absent, remains one big question mark. Probable starters, however, are tackles, Lou
Zelenka and Johnny Linberg; center, Hank Holets; and end, Johnny Anderson. Other forward-wall posts are indeterminable at this writing.
The starting line-up for the Irish will remain the same as in the past three games: l.e., Dove; l.t., Brutz; Lg., Maddock; center, Ziemba; r.g., Crimmins; r.t., Lillis, (c); r.e., Murphy; q.b., Wright; Lh., Bertelli; r.h.,Juzwik; f.b., Evans.—Al Clark
Good Time at Tech Game
Editor’s note: This item was supplied by a former “Rockette” now in Atlanta. Prohibitive costs prevented our sending a regular reporter.
Did anyone say the heat would stop the Fighting Irish? If so they know better now. Even with the strong defensive play of the Jackets, the discomfort of the unusually hot October sun, and the injury of a few players, Notre Dame romped over Tech in a great 20 to 0 victory today before a stadium packed far beyond its usual capacity.
From where we sat in the president of Tech’s box the crowd was very colorful. Adding to the glamor of the occasion were a number of distinguished guests from all over the country, representatives of the Army, Navy, and Marines, and the Tech sponsors, three of Georgia’s most beautiful belles. Dr. Brittain, our host, introduced us to his special guests among whom were Chief Justice William H. Black of New York; Chief Justice Charles Reid of Georgia; the governors of Georgia and Florida and their wives; Mayor Roy LeCraw of Atlanta and his wife; the members of the supreme, appellate, and superior courts of this district; Mrs. Frank Freeman, wife of the motion picture magnate of California; and the sponsors, Miss Marguerite Thomas, Miss Ida B. Sanders, and Miss Sara Farmer.
Tech fans were not hampered by dampened spirits and of course the Notre Dame fans had something to shout about. The crowd gathered for cocktails after the game and at the night spots for dinner, dancing and general merry-making until 12 when the Georgia Blue Laws said it was time for all good people to ' be making their way home. So with this we will say goodnight with cheers to Notre Dame’s unconquerable Fighting Irish and “Better luck next time” to Tech’s plucky Jackets.
—“Mimi” Capdevielle
University of North Carolina’s original 1795 faculty of two members waited almost a month until the first student, Hinton James, walked 200 miles to enroll.
16
ON THE ENEMIES' TRAIL
With, a third mark on the credit side of the ledger being chalked up by Frank Leahy’s charges at the expense of the Eamblin’ Wrecks, let’s take a look at the records of Indiana and Arizona, first two teams vanquished by the N.D. grid machine.
Arizona, which had little but postcards to show for its debut in the Notre Dame stadium, went on the next week to hit the New- Mexico Aggies with everything but Coach Miles Casteel, taking a 47-0 decision from the N. Mex. College Station lads. This, however, would not seem too significant, since the Farmers of New Mexico State were one of the schools hit hardest by Uncle Sam. A large number of the boys, including Head Coach Jerry Hines, were in the National Guard, and were called to the colors before the advent of the 1940 grid season. Hines had formerly made the Aggies the pride of the Border Conference, taking them to the Sun Bowl on one occasion.
The Arizona-Nevada U. game played under the lamps at Tucson resulted in a 26 to 7 victory for the Wildcats.
Tomorrow the Arizona boys will tackle New Mexico University.
A second Irish victory came at the expense of Bo McMillan’s Hoosiers from Indiana U. The Hoosiers were upset on opening day when Gus Dorais’ Detroit U. squad came out on the long end of a surprise 14-7 score. The following week Hillenbrand and Co. dropped their •decision to the Irish, and last week-end found a Tartar in the Horned Frogs from Texas Christian University. In a hard fought battle the “you all” boys tallied 20 and held the Hoosiers to 14.
In games to come, Indiana is scheduled to take on another tough one this week-end, meeting Nebraska. The Wildcats from Tucson don’t have it any easier, playing a suicide schedule for the remainder of the season. This schedule will take all of Coach Casteel’s reading and writing and arithmetic to keep the Wildcats from having their tails twisted in at least one game. One of the frays on tap is the Arizona trip to Albuquerque, where they will meet their traditional rivals, the University of New Mexico Lobos. The Arizona representatives last defeated the Cherry and Silver Lobos in 1937. Head mentor at New Mexico is Ted Shipkey, former AllAmerican end at Stanford, who played against Notre Dame in the 1924 Eose Bowl game, and, if rumor has it correct, scored a touchdown against the Eockne Eamblers.—Dave Condon
TCCOP’N JllINTEtf
fKCH THE EKEJJ ECX
BY BILL SCANLAN
INTERHALLERS GO INTERNATIONAL
Interhall football fortunes, directed by Messrs. Elvin E. Handy, Joseph Saittaand Vincent Trainor, assume an international aspect with appearances of Spanish-speaking gridders. . . . Enrique Tasis, Havana, Cuba, seeks a Morrissey halfback post. . . . Ventura Gunjulia, another Havanan, cavorts at guard for Breen-Phillips. . . . And if 280-pound Joe Papa ever gets his Sorin aggregation functioning, Eamiro Perez of Cardenas, Cuba, is likely to add his tackle knowledge to the engineering skill he’s learning the American way. . . . Eival coaches are leveling bets things percolate successfully—until Morrissey, Breen-Phillips or Sorin men begin barking signals in Spanish. . . . Now, now senors.
ENOUGH FOR A SCRIMMAGE
Frosh basketball mentor Al Del Zoppo, aided by assistant varsity mentor Eay Meyer, greeted 115 candidates the other evening. . . . Banks are thinning daily. . . . Notre Dame wouldn’t object if our Bob Webb performed as well as Georgia Tech’s contribution to the Webb clan. . . . Ed Eiska, ’40, ranked second among forwards in recent Chicago All-American basketball nominations.
CHAMPION CAMPUS LETTER WRITER
Notre Dame’s post office daily does a Times Square rush-hour business—but the champion lettei- writer isn’t a student. . . . Honors fall into the lap of Bustling Bill Sullivan, Coach Frank Leahy’s right hand man and connoisseur of writing problems .... Bill, who turned down a Boston College journalism teaching position to join Mr. Leahy here, handles at least 100 letters daily. . . . The latter’s every day dictation runs into the thousands of words. . . . Sullivan keeps three or four assistants well occupied. . . . Angelo Bertelli, passer extraordinary, batted 4 for 7 against Tech to stretch his 3-game stringbook to 22 completions in 35 throws—total yardage, 331.
EBLI BRINGS ATLANTA SOUVENIR—AN ACCENT
Tackle Eay Ebli, back frm the Cracker state, displayed a nifty accent, southern fashion. . . . Wait till the iron rangers around Ironwood, Mich., discover it. . . . Bob Neff, right tackle, Dick O’Brien, left end, and Joe Postupack, fullback, got the surprises of the week listening to the local radio analysis of the game in Atlanta. . . . The three Irish gridders remained around the midwest all weekend, about 700 miles from Atlanta.
BLASTING BOG OUT OF BADIN BOGGERS
Coach Frank Platt is putting out the “Wanted” sign for a passer to help knock the bog out of the bogging Badin Boggers. . . . On top of that, Coach Platt and his energetic assistant, Jack Brown, are scouring Father Bernard McAvoy’s hall for line material. . . . They’re giving the Murphy brothers, Andy the “Bull” and Johnny, command at left end and left tackle. . . . The well-publicized T-formation, run from an unbalanced line, will get a severe test under Coach Platt. . . . Bill Kyle, who runs like Seabiscuit—when he gets started—holds the key to opening the Badin ball-carrying juggernaut. . . . Jimmy Evert, Chicagoland’s tennis whiz, hasn’t beaten veteran Olen Parks of comparatively “unknown” Mishawaka yet this fall.
T-BONE TRAINING FOR BENGAL BOUTS
William Patrick Mahoney, loquacious track mentor who celebrates his 25th birthday Nov. 27, is already training for Bengal Bouts duty—as announcer. . . . T-Bone survived a double-barreled ribbing from Coaches George Keogan and Eay Meyer and Co., after predicting elegant prospects for Arizona’s Wildcats, who went home tamed, 38-7. . . . Born at Prescott, Ariz., alleged cowboy capital of the world, Mahoney still doesn’t know how to ride a horse cowboy style. . . . Even has an aversion for merry-go-rounds.	•
DREAM DAY FOR RESERVES ARRIVES
Notre Dame 65, Carnegie Tech 0.	'
17
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
Rugged, swarthy, good-natured—that just about paints the picture of Janies Charles Brutz, who is playing a lot of left tackle for Coach Leahy’s charges this fall. Jim, nicknamed “Jamson” by liis teammates, is as tough as they come while on the gridiron, but not a man on the campus can boast more friends than can this senior gridder.
Jim holds the distinction of having his birthday celebrated legally all over the country each year, for it was on Lincoln’s birthday, 1919, that he first put in his appearance. Although Jim was born in Niles, Ohio, the Brutz family soon transferred their allegiance to nearby Warren, and it was here that their son achieved great heights with a pigskin.
Notre Dame claimed only the swarthy youth’s talents on the gridiron, but this was only one of the athletic realms in which he starred during his undergraduate prep days. In his spare moments while at Warren High, Jim found time to pick up monograms on the basketball court and on the cinders. His uncanny football ability, however, caused him to concentrate exclusively on the fall sport. A fitting tribute to “Jamson’s”
ability on the gridiron was paid him during his senior year in high school, when the stocky lad was named on the all-Ohio eleven.
A glance at the room Jim shared with Joe Laiber in St. Ed’s last year would have revealed a feminine touch, for plastered in liberal quantities about the walls were magazine pictures of the weaker sex. If one happened to journey to “The Home of Jim Brutz” just after mail had arrived from home, it was not unlikely' that the gridder would be partaking of his favorite food —Italian-cooked delicacies.
The only factor which stood between Jim and a regular position on the Notre Dame varsity during his sophomore and junior years at the University was Big Tom Gallagher, who was chosen to participate in the annual North-South charity battle at Montgomery, Ala., in 1940.
Brutz did, however, provide Tom with a worthy understudy, and at times during these two years played on a par with Gallagher. This year, however, Jim was chosen for the first string hands down.
Brutz—a man built to play 60 minute football is necessary—has very seldom been forced to leave the ball game by injuries. An example of the ruggedness of Mr. Brutz can be cited back in the days when he was starring on the track
for Warren. One day at practice a javelin pierced Jim’s leg. In spite of the danger of infection from such a wound, “Our Jim” suffered no ill effects.
Jim’s coarse, bellowing voice, fitting to his general appearance, has grown to be one of the permanent fixtures at this year’s pep rallys. He has the rare distinction of becoming notorious as a speaker without having spoken as much as a dozen words at any of the rallys. James Charles Brutz, man that he is, takes it all good-naturedly, however, when fellow students drown out his ora
tory, and with a shrug of his broad shoulders returns to his place among his teammates.
Brutz, a physical education student, spends his summers in preparation for the following football season. Most of his summer is spent as counselor at a
boys’ camp, but he tapers off by laboring in a local steel mill at Warren.
The Brutz family will still be well represented on the Notre Dame football field even after Jim’s graduation next June. Marty, his “kid” brother, is one of the leading line prospects on this year’s giant freshman squad.
One of the elder Brutz’s chief delights seems to be in blocking kicks against the engineers of Georgia Tech. During last year’s struggle in the Stadium Jim realized the big moment in any lineman’s career. With Tech deep in their own territory, the 209 pound youth propelled his six foot frame through the air, blocked a desperate Georgia Tech punt, caught it and ambled over the goal line for a touchdown. Again last Saturday, Jim broke through the southerners’ line to block a punt. This blocked kick later led to an Irish touchdown.
Although the game with Carnegie Tech Saturday is not receiving wide attention in most sectors, there is one locale which will probably be well represented when the Irish take the field against the Skibos. Boosters of their home town boy are planning to send a goodly number from Warren to Pittsburgh tomorrow in order that they can get their last look at the veteran.
Opponents of Notre Dame must be warned that, although there may be one or two weaknesses in the Irish attack, left tackle is certainly not one of them. For this post is manned by one of the ablest, toughest Notre Dame linemen in recent years—our orator, Jim Brutz.
Getchell's Article Revives Memory of "Fifth Down"
Tomorrow afternoon’s tussle at Pittsburgh between the undefeated, highly-touted Irish of Notre Dame and the Tartans of Carnegie Tech lacks the element of high-keyed interest which marked most of the meetings between the two schools in past years. Such an interest is recalled to mind by the publication in a national 50 cent monthly magazine, November issue, written by John S. Getchell, notorious wrong down Johnny, referee of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game played on Notre Dame stadium turf the Saturday of Oct. 22, 1938.
Getchell gained national prominence by a mistake in arithmetic. The situation was something like this in brief and in sequence. Notre Dame and Carnegie Tech were both undefeated teams. The game had gone for three quarters and there was still no score. Approximately five minutes of the final quarter had elapsed. The Tartans had possession of the ball on their own 47 yard line, with
IS
but a yard to go for a first down. The Tech quarterback, Paul Friedlander, stepped over and asked Referee Getchell what down it was. Quickly, Getchell barked: “Third down.” Friedlander called a running play, which Carnelly the Tech back, fumbled but quickly recovered still short of that first down. Friedlander then called for kick formation. The Irish objected and took possession of the ball. Then things began to pop around the head of bewildered Johnny Getchell. The head linesman informed him that it already had been fourth down and that Tech had lost the ball on downs. Johnny Getchell was perfectly willing to admit a mistake.
But this was only the start. Irate Coach Bill Kern, his face a dark crimson flush, sailed out on to the playing field at Mr. Getchell. So did Coach Elmer Layden of the Irish. Their fumings and rantings were to no avail. It was a referee’s mistake and Notre Dame’s ball. Three plays later the Irish had a touchdown and the only six points scored in the game.
Sports writers all over the country picked up the chant in referring to Mr. Getchell as “Wrong Down Johnny.” He was attacked in newsreels, sports columns, radio sports commentaries. The 70 sports writers forming the Associated Press annual poll voted his boner the No. 1 sports oddity berth in 1938, rating it higher than Johnny Vander Meer’s two consecutive no-hit, no-run games. Would be “helpers” mailed Mr. Getchell arithmetic books, whistles, and various drawings pertaining to his mistake.
Only after the salve of three weeks time healed the smarted scalps of Tech rooters did Johnny Getchell dare show his face again. With genuine sportsmanship Coach Kern wired Getchell an offer to officiate at Tech’s game with Texas Christian in the Sugar Bowl. The mistake was forgotten.—John Powers
S. E. P. Sheds New Light
On Leahy, Rockne’s Choice
If it had not been for the tom cartilage in his knee during his senior year on the Notre Dame varsity, Frank Leahy would not be the athletic director and head football coach today at the University of Notre Dame. At least this is the opinion of Tim Cohane, author of the article “Rockne Picked Him,” appearing in this week’s issue of the Saturday Evening Post.
Mr. Leahy was the choice of Knute Rockne for first string left tackle position on his 1929 National Champions. In the fall of 1930, however, the lad tore a cartilage in his knee while throwing a down-field block for Marchy Schwartz during a practice session. Try as he
might, Leahy could not get his leg back in shape.
Mr. Cohane tells of how one night the youth came up to “Rock” on the practice field and told him his knee was all right and he was ready to go. The Irish mentor, although he knew the knee wasn’t ready then and wouldn’t be all season, finally decided to prove it to Frank. In answer to Leahy’s assurance, Rockne retorted:
“Let’s see you. sprint 20 yards.” Courage stood out all over the injured tackle. He staggered five yards and fell. Rockne
FRANK W. LEAHY Head Football Coach and Director of Athletics, Notre Dame.
turned away and muttered over his shoulder:
“You’ve got more guts than brains.”
Early Evidence of Strategy
Leahy was out of action for the entire season in his senior year, and at the close of the season Rockne invited him to go up to Mayo’s clinic and have his knee looked at. During their stay together at the clinic, Rockne conducted a daily gridiron quiz program, with Frankie Leahy as his pupil. A typical question asked his pupil by the master would be something like this:
“What do you do, third down, three to go, ball on your own 45 yard line, five minutes left to play, other team leading, six-nothing?”
It was in sessions such as this while at Mayos’ that “Rock” learned what a master strategist Leahy was. Realizing that the inactivity of the boy in his senior year at Notre Dame would prob
ably cost him a big time coaching job, the boss siezed a half dozen letters from the drawer of a table and flung them across Frank Leahy’s bed.
“Take your pick,” he said.
Each one of those letters asked Rockne’s assistance in selecting an assistant coach. One was from Georgetown’s Tommy Mills, and it was at this institution that Leahy began his coaching career the following September. This was only a stepping stone to Michigan State, Fordham and Boston College, finally returning to his alma mater last February.
While young Leahy was still in the hospital, Rockne invited one of his friends down to the hospital to meet Francis. It was at this time that the immortal coach picked Leahy to become one of the greatest coaches of all time.
Leahy’s great success at Boston College, during which he won 19 out of 20 games plus one Bowl victory, was instrumental in bringing him to Notre Dame following the resignation of Elmer Layden.
Much discussion has arisen, the author points out, both pro and con in connection with the breaking of Coach Leahy’s five year contract at the Boston institution. The only comment from the college was to the effect that the mentor had been released from his contract.
Leahy’s official comment concerning the incident was that he had turned down recently “the greatest offer ever made a college coach,” but that he felt it his duty to return to his alma mater and carry on for Rockne. His sentiments toward his great tutor were reflected by his comments during his inspection of the campus after he had accepted the post. Leahy and a friend of his came to the field house.
“Here’s where we’ll practice in bad weather,” he mused. “And here’s where I’ve raked up the pebbles and scraps of paper many a time. Oh, if the boss were only here. Everything would be perfect then. Wouldn’t Rock be tickled to see his old tackle stepping into his job?”
—Ray Donovan
Bowling Season Opens Student League in K.C. Alleys
Tom Halligan appears to be sending campus bowling off to one of it’s greatest starts. Plans are being made to inaugurate the season this coming Tuesday at 2 pun. in Walsh Hall.
Coach Leahy and a grand knight of the Knights of Columbus are expected to roll the first balls down the reconditioned alleys. Free cigarettes will also be passed out at the grand opening, so be on hand if interested.
If agreed upon by team head the American Bowling Congress will sanc
19
tion the leagues. The object of this probable action is to allow students to bowl in ABC tournaments. The ambition of all bowlers, a 300 game, will be honored with a medal if the league is sanctioned.
Halligan is awaiting entries from all K. of C. members as well as other students interested in bowling. Eight teams with five man squads are desired for each league. K. of C. bowling will be at night while the campus league will be run off in the afternoon. Bowling will be Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of every week.
Teams will be scheduled according to entrance filing. All bowlers under 200 will be allowed a four-fifths handicap. As an illustration, a 190 bowler will be given an eight pin handicap. Students interested in bowling should communicate with Tom Halligan at 353 Badin Hall.—Anthony Marino
Evans Leads N. D. Offense
“Dippy” Evans, junior fullback, holds the lead in the Irish scoring race with
24 points, a two point margin over right
halfback Steve Juz-wik who added 14 points against Georgia Tech to bring his total to 22 points. Against Arizona and Indiana, Evans carried the ball 29 times for 169 yards or 5.8 per attempt with Juz-wik carrying the ball only 17 times or a 3-}-per try. Angelo Ber-
telli, sophomore left half back has run
35 yards in seven trips; Jack Warner has made 41 yards in eight attempts.
In the passing department, Bertelli completed 18 passes in 28 attempts against Arizona and Indiana for 278 yards with one interception.

Creighton Miller, sophomore fullback leads the punters with two kicks for 113 yards or 56.5 per kick in two games as compared with the team average of 32.6 yards.	•
In the three contests played to date the Irish have ground out a total of 1,323 yards by land and air.
—Barney Pyne
Frosh Sacrifice Selves For Success of Varsity
In appraising the success of the Fighting Irish gridiron machine in this season’s campaign, one cannot pick on any one coach or player and hold him entirely responsible. Notre Dame is essentially a team of well-coordinated parts, in which each coach and player does his share, thus producing a well-balanced outfit that has struck the victory bell three times this season. However, the team behind the team, in this case the Notre Dame Freshmen of ’41, has been the unseen guiding hand in the Irish march to date.
Day after day, under the watchful eye of their mentor Bill Cerney, the frosh drill long and faithfully, perfecting their talents in the hope that some day they will find a spot up there with their varsity brethren. But more than that is the pronounced will and determination with which they undertake the task at hand. Split up into two squads, each group learns the plays and system of the next opponent the Irish is to face on succeeding Saturdays. After drilling on the system for a week, they are sent up against the varsity, where they execute the plays in the manner that the team they are representing is expected to do, giving the Irish an idea of what they are to expect the following Saturday.
Squad is Small but Effective
Although the squad is numerically smaller than in previous years, the present frosh aggregation, according to Bill Cerney, is as rugged and talented a group as any he has seen here in his eight years of service. He likes the way the boys perform, the way they carry out their assignments, and the spirit and pep they show from the beginning to the end of their daily workouts.
Time and space will not permit any glowing writeups about the individual frosh gridders, but the following checklist is made up of the men who thus far have shown to advantage in the weekly scrimmages aaginst the varsity: Ends, Frank Cusick, John Yonaker, Jack Zilly, and Gene Dwyer; tackles, John “The Tree” Adams, Marty Brutz (brother of “Hard-Man” Jim), Bob Callahan, Luke Higgins, Mike Manzo, and Sigismund Czarobski; guards, Ed Tobin, Dan Hecht, Ed Kaminsky and Bud Meter; centers, Willard Vangen, Herb Coleman, and Frank Szymanski; quarterbacks, Jerry Cowhig, and Bill O’Connor; halfbacks, Carl Holland, Bob Livingstone, Ed- Krupa, and Ed Taiboon, the latter a South Bend Washington product; and fullbacks, Corwin Clatt, Bob David, Jim Mello, and Cammille Piccone.
—James A. Clemens
Two Sports for Price of One
An unusual intermission feature at the Drake-Illinois football game this Saturday will he the finish of the Indiana-Illinois cross country meet.
The Hoosiers and Illini runners, six each, wil come in the northwest gate and circle the stadium track, finishing at the northeast corner of the track.
Indiana, last year’s cross country champion, is led by Fred Wilt, Big Ten indoor two-mile champion.
Bill Shakespeare Weds
Bill Shakespeare, passer and punter de luxe on the 1935 Irish eleven which upset highly-touted Ohio State, and Miss Olga Castellucci, New York, a singer, were married in Havana, Cuba, last Thursday.
Shakespeare, who is remembered for his long, accurate, floating passes, holds a position with the South American branch of the Independent Pneumatic Tool company. Miss Castellucci is a graduate of New York University.
THE BULLETIN BOARDS
Dillon: A suggestion was made that the inhabitants form a battalion to take effective measures against those persons who, by making indiscriminate use of electric razors all through the day, spoil radio programs for the rest of the residents. Appended was a note: “Why not a suggestion for separate circuits? You can’t tune out beards.” -	’
Dillon: “Party who mistook XXXXX’s furniture please contact (address). Your co-operation will be appreciated; no questions asked.”
Main Building: “To the chap who was in dire need of a watch, wallet and shoes. If you return the shoes and wallet you can keep the watch.”
Zahm: “Red Bank, N. J., meeting, 7:30 in the parlor (seats four) tonight. Don’t laugh—maybe you don’t know that Count Bassie was born in Red Bank. All invited.”
"Dome" Pictures
Tom Atkins, portrait editor of the Dome, announced this week that Sorin Hall senior pictures will be taken next week. Seniors are urged to drop into the offices in the basement of Walsh Hall between 1:15 and 5 p.m. from Monday through Friday. Walsh and Aiumni Hall portraits will be snapped the following two weeks.
The Wranglers sponsored Interhall Debate Contest is now under way. Stanley Litizzette is the chairman and Mark Lies is his assistant. Each of the members has been assigned a hall to coach. Tryouts for positions on the teams are being held this week.	.
2»
CAFE SOCIETY BLOOMS
A long time ago Notre Dame students ate in the basement of the Main Building. Then somebody put up the dining halls and the “Cafe.” Then started a Notre Dame tradition: Cafe Society.
Regular members of Notre Dame’s cafe society are residents of the Gold Coast with a sprinkling of Sophomores just graduated from the “Huddle” at the other end of the campus.
There at all hours of the day, crowded around the tables, learned upper-classmen meet and discuss the ways of life, which in the local idiom means the girl back home. That’s the topic generally up for discussion, but a variety of subjects can be discerned in the hum that fills the room.
The solemn group with the high foreheads are the English majors. Within their sacred precincts the ways of the world are softly condemned. Literature is the main topic.
Noisiest are the engineers. By far the most colorful, they are the toughest bunch in school, do the most work, have the hardest teachers, live the meanest life—if you listen to them long enough you’ll believe anything they say. Archfoes of the English majors, they tolerate the presence of that group only because the Cafe is a democratic institution. Engineers’ main topic: the low marks passed out in the last exam.
Smuggest of all cafe habitues, the smallest, numerically, are the pre-meds. Certain they will escape the draft they can look with sympathetic eyes on the rest of Cafe Society. Because of a certain amount of relationship in their studies, they are the only ones who can reach common grounds with the engineers.
Cafe Society Hits Its Peak
Commerce men gather to anticipate or reminisce on the Forum’s annual trip. Phy. Ed. men who tower above the whole assemblage, are best known of any there.
After the rush for breakfast, activities of the cafeteria’s employees are concentrated on filling the demands of the coffee hour, which runs from about 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. Especially during the winter, students pop into the Cafe and grab coffee and toast before dropping into their next class.
At noon cafe society’s finely distinguished strata is pierced by such alien elements as professors and visitors. During the afternoon and into the evening a lull settles over the empty chairs and tables. But as night closes down the “nine o’clock rush” comes and from there on in cafe society hits its peak.
Biology Club to Hold
Victory Dance Tomorrow
The first meeting of the Notre Dame Biology Club was held in the amphitheatre of the Biology building on Oct. 8 at 8:30 p.m. Bernie Marbach, president of the club, outlined the activities planned for the present school year. Athletic contests with other campus organizations were announced for basketball and bowling. Plans for a Victory Dance on Oct. 18 were completed and a report from Dance Chairman Ed Monahan indicated that this event will offer splendid entertainment for the evening. An open invitation was extended to the entire student body. (Dates will be arranged for the convenience of the Freshmen by Ed Monahan and Bernie Marbach, Alumni Hall).
Dean H. B. Froning gave a brief “pep” talk in which he encouraged the mem
bers to make this—the newest club on campus—a success. Professors Theodor Just, D. J. Plunkett, E. L. Powers and J. D. Mizelle, the faculty adviser, were also present at the meeting.
The objectives of the club are: to stimulate interest in biological studies and to promote good fellowship. Meetings are to be held monthly and refreshments will be served. Membership is open to students registered in the College of Science in good standing.	.
All members of the club are especially urged to attend the dance, invite as many of their friends as possible, and to help make this event one of the most successful of the school year.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Dear Editor,
I guess we’ve heard enough about the band lately both pro and con, but I have seen no opinions voiced in print from a band member. I am a member of the band and am interested, as are the other band members, in seeing Notre Dame represented by a truly fine musical organization. We have the music, we have the musicians, and last, or first, but certainly not least, we have the finest director of any college band in the country.
Joe Casasanta has been giving his all for Notre Dame now for 23 years, so I’m told, and he is a truly representative Notre Dame man. Yes we have everything—except for one small item— the cooperation of the school authorities. The band is forced to play under the most difficult conditions. They practice immediately after lunch every afternoon in the worst excuse for a band room that I have ever had the displeasure of playing in. It really is a “joke.” A room with a wooden floor four inches thick, solid plaster walls, and to top it off,. a metal ceiling. In such a room there just “ain’t” no such word as “acoustics.” Because practice conflicts with classes, we can never have a full band present for rehearsal.
What are we going to do? The band members have talked it over, (and it isn’t the first time), and we have decided to appeal to the far reaching influence of The Scholastic. How about it? Will you please try to do something for us. We will all appreciate any effort on your part.	.
Sincerely,
Jack Woelfle, 330 Morrissey
21
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CATHOLIC COLLEGE STUDENTS MEETS AT NAZARETH COLLEGE
recent frosh practice: Clifford and Murphy in the sprints; Currie in the distances; and Smith in the hurdles.
—Bill Rogers
Headquarters of the Fort Wayne Regional Unit of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich., were opened Sunday, October 12, for the second council meeting of this unit. Five of the eight schools in this region were represented.
From Nazareth College there were Betty Navarre, president of the Fort Wayne Region; Helen Asplan, corresponding secretary; Ann Tradi and Mary Jane Brown, official delegates; the Rev. Edgar Misch, C.S.C., and Sister Kevin, S.S.J., faculty moderator. St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Terre Haute, Ind., sent two official delegates, Patricia Smith and Shirley Kopp. The Rev. Thomas Gro-lenroth, C.P.P.S., and the Rev. Norman Koller, C.P.P.S., faculty moderator, were official representatives from St. Joseph College, Collegeville, Ind.
St. Thomas Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich., was represented by Edward Razmus, regional treasurer, official delegates Robert Herrmann and Byron Zielbeck, and unofficial delegates Phyllis Kruss, Patricia Bonnell and Charles Beckman. The University of Notre Dame sent to the council meeting the Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., regional vice-president, and official delegates Gus F. Stuhldreher and John A. Lynch.
St. Mary’s College expressed their regret that delegates could not be sent to this council, but no word was received from either Marion College, Indianapolis, Ind., or St. Francis College, Lafayette, Ind.
During the course of the meeting, which was opened by Father Craddick and presided over by president Betty Navarre, the regional by-laws were amended on two accounts. The office of recording secretary, abolished at the first meeting, was re-established, and the annual dues were set at five dollars per school regardless of the student enrollment. It was decided that dues would be directly payable to the secretary rather than the treasurer since immediate expenses will be incurred by the secretary’s correspondence in further uniting the schools of the region. The treasurer, however, will keep the financial records of the region.
The motion was made and carried that a Regional Congress will be held at Nazareth College on the days of April 18 and 19, 1942. Plans for this Congress, which will bring together all the
students possible of the regional schools, will be formulated at a council meeting to be held in the near future.
The official delegates to the meeting then voted to elect Patrica Smith of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods to the re-established office of recording secretary. In a further vote Betty Navaree and Louis Kurtz, regional president and vice-president, were elected to represent the Fort Wayne Region at the National Council meeting of the Federation.
Rain Halts Cross Country;
Varsity Needs Sprinters
The motto of a nationally known salt, “When it rains, it pours,” can well be applied to the recent weather. Rain helps produce abundant crops, but rain hasn’t helped Notre Dame’s cross country team in its pre-season practice. Due to the inclement weather, the team is not in good shape.
With four cross country meets coming up in the next few months, Coach Bill Mahoney must rely on three seasoned performers, Ollie Hunter, Tony Maloney, and Frank Conforti. Two men are needed to round out the team, arid Mr. Mahoney has the sophs working overtime in an effort to find the correct duo.
Goss Country Scoring System
In each cross country meet the teams are scored as in golf, the low score winning. There are five-man teams. In each event the winner is scored 1 point, second man 2 points, third man 3 points, etc.
The schedule: Oct. 24—Michigan Normal in a dual meet—there. Nov. 1—Loyola Invitational—at Loyola—with all the mid-western schools invited. Nov. 8— Indiana State meet—where? Nov. 24— National Collegiate Meet — at Lansing, Mich.
As yet the Spring schedule has not been drawn up, but Coach Mahoney expects a good team, built on a veteran foundation. The urgent need is for sprinters, as only Jay Gibson has returned of the group of fine dash men in the squad last year. So far Notre Dame’s track squad has been fortunate in losing only one man to Uncle Sam’s draft army, Ed Dunham, whom Bill Mahoney called the “greatest prospect ever to come to Notre Dame.” ,
Some freshmen have shown up well in
1.000 Students Leave
Campus for Week-end
A bright sun shone on an empty stadium Saturday as the team went southward; classrooms got an extra day of vacation as Monday was Founder’s Day; halls seemed deserted as upwards of 1,000 students left the campus for home.
Crowds gone, there was not the usual stampede into the dining hall nor the mild rush through the soup course. Sunday’s breakfast proved to be a party to which nobody came except the two head waiters and, of course, the stately individuals of the art collection. The boys in the white coats found a waiter’s utopia: five on one table.
Still it wasn’t such a “weak-end” after all for thoose who remained on campus. Saturday produced one of Notre Dame’s great thrills when the Irish wrecked the Techmen and showed Atlanta fans the correct way to ramble in three easy touchdowns.
Washington Hall kept up the spirit of things -with two good movies Saturday and Sunday nights. The “March of Time” seems to have deserted serious topics and turned to comedy. The latest one, called “An Eyeful of Exeter,” proved to be funnier than a Donald Duck cartoon. Or perhaps an idle three days just had a giddy effect on the fellows here.
Anyway, the moral of all this is: when they pass you a free week-end, don’t fumble!—Dan Downey
Four Students Elected
To the Bookmen Club
Charles Kearney, senior English major from Dixon, Ill., presided last week at the first Bookmen meeting of this year in the seminar room of the Law Building. Plans for the school year were announced and four new members were elected. Men elected to the campus honorary reading club were Jim O’Brien, Walsh Hall; Jack Dunlavy and Don Heltzel, Dillon Hall; and Jim O’Dea, Morrissey Hall. The next meeting will be held in the Rose Marie Tea Room, with Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator of the club, present. A paper will be read by Neil McCarty and discussion on contemporary literature will follow.—Dick Kilmer
22
"THE AVE MARIA” HAS PROMINENT
In May, 1865, when Catholic periodicals were few and relatively unknown, the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University of Notre Dame, conceived the idea of a Catholic Home Weekly — he called it The Ave Maria. After one year’s existence it had six thousand subscribers to its credit, and the praise and approbation of the Holy Pontiff, Pius IX, and of twenty-eight other high ecclesiastics. In 1878 The Ave Maria could modestly boast of ten thousand subscribers and further approbation from Rome. Unselfish and vigorous canvassing by the Brothers of Holy Cross made up for the loss of subscribers sustained during the depression, and today, with a brilliant history behind it,. The Ave Maria still retains its place among the leaders of American Catholic journalism.
Last year the Provincial Chapter for the United States Province of Holy Cross passed a resolution for the erection of a new Ave Maria printing plant. The old building had long felt the pressure of wear and tear and its inadequacy to accommodate itself to changes brought about by the installation of more modern equipment. It was thought that a new plant would surely help the three-point program of The Ave Maria, namely: 1) supplying the reading public with wholesome Catholic literature, 2) placing it within the reach of everyone at prices designed to meet the stringency of the school and family budgets,
PARKER-WINTERROWD
for
Jformal Clothes:
And bring in your contest ballot before October 24th.
2. Harry L. Williams of Yale and later head coach of football at Minnesota. He got it recognized by the rules comittee as a legal offensive weapon.
PLACE IN CATHOLIC JOURNALISM
and 3) keeping The Ave Maria employees on the payroll.
The plans for the new building were tentatively drawn by Father William T. Craddick, C.S.C., and Brother M. Casimir, C.S.C., under the direction of the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S-.C., Provincial. The plans were turned over to McGinnis & Walsh of Boston, Mass., and the contract was let to Thomas L. Hickey of South Bend, Ind.
On July 24, 1940, The Ave Maria marked its Diamond Jubilee when Father Patrick J. Carroll, editor of The Ave Maria, broke the first ground for the erection of the new plant. Then, on the feast of our Blessed Lady’s Nativity, September 8, 1940, Father Caroll laid the corner stone.
The new modem printing plant, 170 feet long by 140 feet wide, borders the east banks of the familiar St. Joseph’s Lake on the campus. The brick structure of its one story frame is of Santa Barbara blend, and is streamlined with Indiana limestone. It is daylighted and fireproofed throughout.
The task of transferring from the old plant to the new was very difficult, owing to the fact that besides printing and mailing over 33,000 copies of The Ave Maria weekly, the Press was under obligation to fulfill other weekly commitments while its equipment was being hauled to its new site. But care and foresight eliminated confusion and on January 25, 1941, the first issue of The Ave

RENTALS:
TUX Complete $6.30
Suit, shirt, tie, buttons.
TAILS Complete $7.50
Suit, shirt, -waistcoat, tie, buttons, tophat.
Something New and Different
Neckwear designed by Walt Disney -— completely different ■figures in Satin — autumn and winter colors . . . subtly blended.
4. a) Stanford: b) Minnesota; c) Tennessee; d) Boston College, e) Lafayette.
Formal Shirts -	-	$2.50
Ties, black or white - 1.00 # Jewelry -	$1.00 to 5.00
Black Silk Hose - - .55
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
1151^ - 117*4 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTY
321 Alumni Hall	233 Walsh Hall	115 Sorin Hall
WYMAN
Maria, completely set up and printed in the new plant, rolled off the press.
Beginning with the Composing Room, particular attention was given to the arrangement, to achieve symmetry of alignment, practicability of perform-
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
AHen+ion Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday.
Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p. m.
Make money on your parties here.
CORSAGES for the Sophomore Cotillion Next Friday
SOUTH BEND Floral Co.
114 South Michigan St.
Have your BARBER and MANICURING work done at the Zoss Barber Shop Notre Dame Men, we extend to you a cordial invitation.
6. Edgar Allen Poe of Princeton. 133 W. Jefferson Blvd.
(Opposite the City National Bank)
ance and the minimum critical walking distance between related items. The copy, having been locked in forms, rotates in its various stages from the Composing Room to the Press Room. Temperature and humidity—two things which can make or wreck a good press job—are controlled by the heating and humidifying units of an air-conditioned system. Indeed the Press Room of The Ave Maria can boast of the very best and most modern equipment. Adjoining the Press Room is the paper and book warehouse and a storage basement for paper stock. Paper is fed on to the presses from this storage room. When the printed work has been folded and is ready to be stitched, it is relayed to the Bindery in the next room where a corps of workers gather the allied sections into composite units and feed them to electrically-driven stitching machines; after which they are conveyed to the adjacent Trimming and Mailing Room. As in every well-regulated organization, the Office, with its efficient personnel, takes care of the business administration—the purchasing, billing, and recording of all transactions.	,
The Ave Maria Press, in addition to putting out The Ave Maria, prints other periodicals, and publishes many books by well known and popular writers. Some of the publications printed regularly by The Ave Maria Press are: The Ave Maria, The Scholastic, The Alumnus, The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes, Scrip, Review of Politics, Santa Maria, The American Midland Naturalist, The Catalyzer, and University of Notre Dame Catalogues. — Adapted by Bill Talbot from The Ave Maria.
Ramiro Perez Elected Head of La Plaza Club
Last Sunday evening, Oct. 5, the Club de la Raza, well known campus amalgamation of all Notre Dame Spanish speaking students, held its first meeting of the school year for the annual election of officers. Result: Ramiro Perez of Cuba, president; Angel Gonzalez of Spain, vice-president; Ramon Araujo of Colombia, secretary;; Cesar Munecas of Cuba, treasurer.
The group discussed the celebration of La Raza day, Tuesday, Oct. 12, and came to some tentative conclusions subject to future discussion.
In closing Eduardo Alcayaga, member and graduate student from Chile, addressed the assembly concerning the method of fomenting cooperation and unity among the members and of working enthusiastically in favor of the club, to make the group effort more fruitful. He added that the La Raza Club was, in other years, one of the leading clubs
on the campus but recently it has had a weak and languid life. Finally he asked each member to be the first to fulfill his obligation as a student and as a member of the club.
HEHDA GUARD
miiflno
THE
Huddlh
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ______________$ 1.50
Yello-Bole Regular_______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ___ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ___ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran ___ 5.00
Hollycourt _____________ 3.50
Comoy __________________ 6.00
Corncobs_____-___10c and 25c
24
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Bill Welsh
If you want to get a 96 in Physics, either study three or four hours daily, or look up Frank Pollnow, and find out what his formula was. That and his high average in the School of Chem. Engineering make him a good person to know.
But Frank is not too completely wrapped up in Chem. Engineering. In tennis, swimming, sailing, hunting and fishing he is better than average. As a swimmer he is one of the school’s best, for he holds the Notre Dame breast stroke record, and was a member of two championship interhall teams. He has also been one of a group trying to introduce swimming as a varsity sport at Notre Dame.
Frank, a Senior, graduated from St. Louis University High School in St. Louis, his home, for the past two years has roomed with Ed Griesedieck, another St. Louisan. Their double in Alumni is one of the strongholds for Senior bridge enthusiasts, and last year they conducted a bridge tournament.
He stands six feet four inches, and without his glasses, looks like a fooball player. He is a member of the A. I. Ch. E., the Engineers Club, and the Chem. Club. Frank divides his time in the summer between working in a chemical laboratory, and sailing.
Patronize the Advertisers
St. Vincent de Paul
Next Sunday morning, Oct. 19, the advisory board of the Saint Vincent de Paul Society will join the officers of that organization in a Communion breakfast. The advisory board is a committee of laymen, including several members of the Notre Dame faculty, who work with the campus conference of Vincentians in a consultant capacity. After Mass in Morrissey chapel, at which Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., director, will officiate, the men will meet in the Faculty dining hall to discuss activities of the past year and plans for the present year. Problems confronting the society will be aired by the officers and the floor will be open to suggestions by the board.
Vincentian officers this semester include John McCabe, president; Emmett Griffin and Bob Harrington, co-vicepresidents; Gail Fitch, secretary; Ed Roney, librarian; Paul O’Connell, treasurer; Bob Matthew, corresponding secretary, and Bob Kehoe, executive secretary. The advisory board is comprised of Messrs. Frank Flynn, Francis McMahon, Thomas Madden, Eli Abraham, James Corbett, Francis Kervick, Willis Nutting, John Sheean, and John McClurg.
—John C. Bennett
HOWELL'S
CHICKEN-IN-THE-ROUGH and RANCHBERGERS
•	213 North Main Street
•	1823 South Michigan Street
1. Knute K. Rockne.
Never mind that “Uncle” stuff, say
19 Trains a Day!
When you're squeezed for time, it's a good thing to know that the South Shore offers hourly service to the heart of Chicago.
Just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Thereafter, from 7:30 A. M. until 9:30 P. M., trains leave every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at I 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
Easy to remember? It's a clinch!
For detailed information call C. W. Veach, ticket'office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3 III.
TO CHICAGO
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
25
Week - End Study Schedule
To you who considered yourselves lucky in going home over the week-end, may we recount some of the educational values which you missed.
We, who remained on campus, had two and a half days of study, to say nothing of some time for play. We had an opportunity to catch up on our work and even to get ahead of the assignments.
The game and movie on Saturday left very little time for study but we were able to make up a schedule of work for Sunday and Monday.
Fortunately Sunday was too good a day to read anything but the funny papers so we stayed outside and scheduled our studying for Monday.
Monday morning too was bright so we played some golf and tennis. In the afternoon we had some unusual weather. Because of the rain, study seemed illogical. On Monday evening we did a little of Tuesday’s work.—Ted Webster
Get Set for the
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
MANSFIELD FORMAL SHOES
$5-95
Patent or Dress Calf
M‘X ADLER Michigan at Washington
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
It's ADLER'S for Arrow —
ARROW SHIRTS ARROW TIES ARROW ’KERCHIEFS ARROW SHORTS
"If it's Arrow, we have it!"
26
Announce Committees For Law Club Ball
The Law Cub, under President Ed Kelley, has announced that the date of the annual Law Ball will be Nov. 21. The affair wil be held at the Erskine Country Club on Miami Road, South Bend. Music for the dance will be furnished by Bob Richardson and his “Mod-ernaires.”
The general chairman in charge of the dance is John Ward. He will be assisted by the following committee chairmen:
BELMONT
0.1, ^O 50
They'll be Talking about you too when you become the proud possessor of a
"Swank” is the word for it on campuses everywhere! Smartly tailored from fine-quality gabardine, shower-proofed by Cravenette. Popular kneelength model with bal-collar, button fly front, slash-through pockets. Setin sleeves. Railroad stitching on cuffs and bottom. Deep yoke and sleeve linings of lustrous rayon. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars or longs. Best of all its
Selected by COLLEGE STYLE BOARD
Bob Quentell. .Southern California John H. Sanders............Cornell
Wm. B. Smith.................Dulr.
Daniel H. Huyett..........Michigan William Belden............Texas
MAX ADLER
South Bend, Indiana
Richard F. Swisher in charge of the music committee; James J. McGoldrick in charge of the hall; Henry P. Schrenk-er chairman of the reception committee; Joseph J. Borr, head of the invitations committee; Ernest C. Timpani, head of publicity; John H. Verdonk is taking care of the decorations; and Cecil E. Jordan is in charge of arrangements.
For the first time in several years, the Ball will be a closed dance, only lawyers and graduate students being allowed to attend. Faculty members will also be present. The Ball, which is for
mal, is expected to be attended by about 75 couples.
The time of the dance and the price of admission have not yet been decided upon.—Harry Osborne
"Dome" Staff Organizes Under Joe Hillenbrand
Soft-spoken, easy-going Joe Hillenbrand from Toledo is the master-mind and editor of this year’s Dome, one of the school’s most important publications. Already a well known campus figure because of his steady contributions to Scrip and Scholastic, Joe will capably fill the shoes of his predecessor, Neil McCarthy.
This year’s Dome staff is striving for a representative picture of campus life with the intent of giving each section its proper place and proportion. No overplay of social activities or under-play of academic functions will be present. Under the capable supervision of Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., the staff should achieve their goal without sacrificing any of the Dome's appeal.
A more efficient, stream-lined organization has cut red tape to a minimum. The editor is the chief-of-staff and directly under him is the nerve-center, made up of three managing associate editors: John Gilligan, in charge of copy; Ed Steeb, photography; and Ray Wilmer, art. Directly under these are the section editors who supervise the recording of campus activities. Tom Atkins has charge of the Junior and Senior portrait section from his rogue’s gallery in Walsh hall. The freshmen and the sophomore group pictures as well as shots of their halls are in the hands of Joe Mannion.
One of the most interesting parts of the Dome each year is the picture section of the athletes and their “great moments” and the man who records them for posterity this year is Neil Quinn. Assigned to the very capable hands of John Doerr is the informal view of campus life.
Under this group of section editors are many other capable undergraduates, sophomores and freshmen, who are getting valuable experience for their coming chance as future editors.—Adrian Paden
Since 1696, Harvard University has offered a $500 scholarship for an Englishman or Indian from “Petaquamscot in the Narragansett country otherwise called King’s Province.”
General Sylvanus Thayer’s successful superintendency of West Point from 1817 to 1833 earned him the title of “the Father of the United States Military Academy.”
27
PICK AMERICA S
ONE AND ONLY
PIPE
DrGRABOW
[ THt
There’s only one correct way to "break in" a pipe.. that’s by smoking it. Only Dr. Grabow pipesarepre-smokedwithfine tobacco (Edgeworth) on Linkman's mechanical smoh^g'machine.
MADE BY M. LINKMAN & CO., CHICAGO MAKERS OF HollYcourVPIPES
OR. GRABOW'S PATENTED CLEANER
(Continued from Page 8) widowed mother and his family. He arrived in New York on July 21, 1836, proceeding then to Vincennes, Indiana.
Father Petit came to the log chapel at Notre Dame on October 27, 1837, and stayed until the removal of the Indians in September, 1838, at which time he accompanied them to Kansas. The account of this painful journey is given in great detail in the newly discovered records. Father Petit relates the cruelty of the soldiers detailed to marshal the Indians as far as the Mississippi, the extreme heat and thirst suffered by the red men, the ruthlessness with which old and young, aged and infirm were herded together and forced to move on.
The earlier letters and items of the journal contain many incidents of life at South Bend and at Lake St. Maiy, the present Notre Dame. There are humorous incidents, heroic incidents and bits of history that have hitherto been lost in the passage of time.
Shellgrca
NO BREAKMGM NO BITE NO BITTER TASTE
You Supply the Head...
LEE supplies the HAT-l-TUVfr
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and
HOLLYCOURT
Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
5. Wyllys Terry (Yale vs. Wesleyan, Nov. 4, 1884) ran from five yards in back of the goal out of a deep punt formation to a touchdown, a total of 105 yards.
BRUGGNER-S CIG4R STORE HON. MAIN ST.
(Opposite Oliver Hotel)
LEE HATS
T- Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
Found only at ... .
Rra s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND ft ^.YOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
On the entire trip, the young priest, never well himself, attended to both the physical and spiritual welfare of his charges; giving them as far as was in his power, medical care and relief from suffering; hearing confession, ministering to the sick and officiating at the many burial services along the way.
Photostatic copies of the letters and journals were obtained from the University archives in the library where permission was obtained by Mr. Irving McKee, of the Culver Military Institute, to translate and publish them.
In addition to the detailed letters of Father Petit to his family and Bishop, the journal contains Father Petit’s own carefully kept journal of his ordination, his journey to South Bend, his work among the Indians and the sorrowful journey to Kansas. The “Trail of Death” proved fatal to Father Petit, who died in St. Louis of a fever contracted on the journey. His remains lie today beneath the University Church at Notre Dame.
After reading the story, one can read-
Let the nearest store that sells LEE Water-Bloc* Hats fit your head into this new semi-telescope— the Bearcroft — with a slightly narrow band and a bound edge brim. Wear it snapped way back. For only 5 Bucks, you’ll be a bearcat in The Bearcroft.
28
ily understand why Bishop Simon Brute had such affection for his “beloved Benjamin,” why the Indians claimed him as their own and why he could do so much with them. These letters and the journal are not only unusual historical documents on the history of the St. Joseph Valley, hut they also provide excellent spiritual reading.
—George Thoma and Lenon Kelly
MUSIC
By J. R. C.
Perhaps the greatest concert baritone and undoubtedly the greatest performer before audiences today is John Charles Thomas, heard in a concert last Monday evening before an enthusiastic gathering at John Adams High school. His diction, if it may be called that, is perfect and although at no one time did he rise to full glory, his renditions were flawless. One of his greatest assets is his versatility which never fails to delight his audience with such numbers as “The Deaf Woman’s Courtship,” “All Day on the Prairie,” and several others which display fully the man’s showmanship not only in choosing these numbers but in performing them to the satisfaction of the audience.
It is questionable whether most audiences attend concerts to hear the regular program or whether they tolerate the program to hear the encores. At any rate, as usual, the encores were by far
the best selections and were, perhaps for this reason, better done. No J. C. T. concert is complete without the famous Factotum aria, “The Lord’s Prayer,” a most moving and powerful plea which with “In the Gloaming” would have made a good concert in themselves.
Of his four groups of songs, the best of them was the third group which featured American folk songs such as “All Day on the Prairie,” “Low Bridge,” or the “Erie Canal” and a Negro spiritual, “Take My Mother Home.” This group seemed to have more body than the others and of course the nature of the songs, a bit humorous in spots, surely added to their popularity.
John Charles Thomas is perhaps the most popular concert artist on tour today or for many years back. Instead of conceited sophistication, he has an almost homey, friendly but withal gracious air. He is always willing to perform although last Monday he gave but eight encores. He often gives as many as 20 or 25 throughout the programs. His encores, perhaps, make him the popular idol he is.
His accompanist, Carroll Hollister, was very capable and excellent as a soloist. It seems to be the mark of good accompanists that they perform pleasingly, but Hollister’s playing of “Claire de Lune” was not only pleasing, it was excellent. If there is one Debussy composition which should be played as a piano solo it is “Claire de Lune.” Of his other pieces, the best was another Debussy: “The Submerged Cathedral.”
Altogether, a thoroughly enjoyable evening, as they usually say. This concert was sponsored by the South Bend Civic Music Association which will also sponsor this season three other outstanding concerts: Dec. 17, 8:15, at John Adams High school, the Indianapolis Symphony orchestra under Fabian Se-vitsky; Feb. 14, 1942, 8:15, at John Adams High school, Littlefield Ballet; and April 30, 1942, 8:30, Notre Dame Field House, Jose Iturbi, pianist.
Ifs
The Karmelkorn Shop
Main and Colfax Streets
/or
BETTER CONFECTIONS
Freshly Salted Nuts Candy
Caramel Apples	Popcorn
FOR ALL EVENTS Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
Learn to Dance!! Improve Your Dancing!
CLASS OR PRIVATE INSTRUCTION
We teach thorough foundation and the newest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba and Conga.
Call 3-4079 for particulars
MAXENE MOLLENHOUR
SCHOOL OF DANCING
Indiana Club 320 W. Jefferson South Bend, Ind.
twnvK
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
3. a) Johnny Metzger of Notre Dame, 1929-30; b) Red Grange of Illinois, 1924-26.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
19
Outdoor Way of the Cross
The Indian Summer now prevaiing is a perfect complement to the outdoor Way of the Cross. Erected behind the Community House on the path that follows the contours of St. Joseph’s Lake, the Stations wind themselves up to Calvary where there stands on an elevation, bronze life-size figures of our Lord, the Blessed Mother, and St. John. Lent is the season when this path, in its inspirational setting and dominated by representations of a truly inspirational Life, is most frequented. An annual feature of the laymen’s retreat is the making of the outdoor Way of the Cross. Almost every day finds students devotionally following the walk.
The Stations, which are bronze plaques attached to large wooden crosses, were donated by Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Carroll of Chicago in memory of their deceased parents August 15, 1923. An inscription bearing the donors’ names and intention is on a boulder monument placed just a few feet from the first station. The stations were cast in Chicago and were designed by Ernest Thorne Thompson, at one time head of the Art Department at Notre Dame and now at New Rochelle College in New York.—Charles Klelbacker
"Scholastic" 75 Years Old
The Notre Dame Scholastic first poked its head into the light of day when the Rev. Neil Gillespie, second editor of The Ave Maria, decided in 1866 that a great intellectual era had set in after the Civil War was over and the time was ripe for a college paper. Father Corby, the president, gave the project his hearty encouragement, and Father Lemonnier, the vice-president and director of studies took an active part in its establishment. After some discussion the Scholastic Year was fixed upon as the name of the new venture, the idea being that the paper should be published only during the scholastic year, or from September till June each year.
The plan of organization was that a select corps of students, under supervision of Father Gillespie, should prepare the matter. Father Gillespie, being also the editor of The Ave Maria, the plan worked as well perhaps as any that could be devised. The first number was issued Sept. 7, 1867. It was in the beginning little more than a fly leaf of The Ave Maria, to which it was attached. As stated in the salutory, printed in the first number, it was intended chiefly, in addition to being a literary medium for the writings of students, “to give to parents frequent accounts of the
institution in which they had placed their children.”
In March, 1868, the editorial supervision fell into the hands of Father Lem-monier, as director of studies, and for many years the director of studies continued to be the nominal editor, selecting and classifying the matter furnished him by the students. The original idea, though, of an editorial corps of students, had always remained a constituent part of the plan of organization. Very early, moreover, contributions were offered and received from the whole body of the students, each one being encouraged and urged to write for the pages of the college paper.
Beginning with August, 1868, the Scholastic Year was published entirely separate from The Ave Maria. The venture had proved a success, and henceforth the little paper was felt to be an essential part of the University. In 1869 the name was changed by Father Gillespie to the Notre Dame Scholastic. This name, in September, 1872 was modified by Father Brown, then in charge, into the Scholastic simply. But three years later, in September, 1875, the want of a local flavor in the name was perceived amongst the exchanges, and the former appelation of Notre Dame Scholastic was restored. This has continued to be the name ever since.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... many a refreshing experience... has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of Coca-Cola.
30
New Jersey Club Holds Communion Breakfast
The New Jersey Club, headed by Ed Monahan and boasting 150 members, is planning an active year. Next Sunday will mark the first get-together, when the members will attend a communion breakfast and later discuss definite plans for future activities.
The Jerseyites are getting the competitive spirit and are going to have a basketball team which will play teams
representing	Also in the
sports line will be skating parties at the new rink in town. A dance is scheduled for the Christmas holidays. During the past summer the club sponsored an outing at the West End Casino in Long Branch, N. J.
Other officers of the club are Vice-president Gilbert Gillooly, -Secretary Jack Whalen, and Treasurer Bud Doyle. Assistant football coach, John Druze, who hails from Ervington, N. J., is honorary president.—Dan Downey
“Here’s That Band Again”
DICK JURGENS
and His Orchestra on
MONDAY, OCTOBER 20th
8:30 to 12:30, at the
PALAIS ROYALE
ADMISSION:
Advance, per Person $1.10, tax inchided.
&


How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The. Flavor Lasts.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS

DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Bend. Indiana

w
SB
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
V-1M

DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
x-ray examination 609 J.M.S. Building HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2S74 31
hesterfield
ANN SHERIDAN in
NAVY BLUES Warner
Bros current release!
makes a big hit with
the Navy.
Chesterfield makes a
big hit with the Navy
and with smokers every
where with their Milder
Better Taste.


Copyright 1941. Liccett & Mnas Toucco Co.

for a Definitely MILDER
COOLER BETTER TASTE
Smokers everywhere know you con travel a long way and never find another cigarette that can match Chesterfield for a Milder Cooler Better Taste.
It's Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos that wins the approval of smokers all over the country. Let the Navy’s choice be your choice ... make your next pack Chesterfield.
EVERYWHERE YOU GO