


, 
. 
the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 
Scholastic 
.·--.•-__ _ -~--__understand campus_eyents_eyen _ _when__J-.QU're_not on_camp_us . ···-•----____ 

DOLLARS 
r------------------..--------7 
I PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM AND I 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: I NAME: -----.,....----------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE I ,· 303 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
I ADDRESS: -------------I 
I ---'----------I
I I 
(The ND Speedway 8 
\. · • by Rachae/Protzman 
The Irish Racing T earn is back on its · ..feet -er, wheels -'-and prepares to speed to victory 
12 
Just how safe is itto live off campus? A closer look at crime out of the protective shadow of the Golden Dome 
-;:-;·-----~-. :.·_;c;:-­

/ Matchbox Twenty 
1l-. · 
26
by Carrie Sweeney 
An exclusive intervi~~-'Nith the l band's guitarist, Adam Gaynor ! 
.Tunnelling into the Future 7 
by Katie Freddoso 
Food for Thought 
byKim Blackwell 

High-Water Mark 
21 
by Ann Varga 
WakingUp The Echoes 
22 
by Jessica Daues 
'.lucky Seven · · by Kara Zuaro · 28 


thedepartments 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 29 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Splinters 19 Calendar 31 Campus Watch 24 Final Word 32 

' ' 
" ·----· ~i-~--' ­



Vol. 142, No. 3 • 21 SEPTEMBER 2000 ------------~~,.,....-~-...·r·' -·------------~-----···------,.­
! ri ., ·7 /,, r· ·') .
scholast,ic;::-1 L/ l (1I, i., staff 
··-----· L~ ...4-'... L ... _/, ..... ________ "'_________________________ 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 
Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor Agatha Noble, assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 
Jessica Chamberlain Erin Dowe Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor Nolan D. Orfield, assistant Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor Michael delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor Jessica L. Daues, assistant Jenny Wahoske 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager Online Brian Scofield, manager 
http://www.nd.edu/~scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole orin part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sentto Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Matt Barr is the official office pretty boy.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Iwas angry, and, to be honest, a little embarrassed. Walking away from Stepan courts, I berated myselffor letting my guard down. As a native ofNew York City, I should have known better than to make my money easily accessible to thieves. Now, I was out 50 bucks. I had met a couple of friends to play basketball, and, without thinking about it, had put my wallet underneath the hoop. Later, when we moved two courts away, I didn't bother to take my wallet with me. I never imagined someone would steal the wallet, especially with me standing so close. Unfortunately, when we finished playing and I went to retrieve my wallet, it was gone. As I stormed up the steps to my dorm room, I thought about the hassles ahead: canceling credit cards, getting a new license mailed from home and replacing membership cards. Luckily, before I had a chance to start making phone calls, Notre Dame Security/Police got in touch with me and told me a teacher had found my wallet. The money was missing, but everything else had been recovered. As I reflected on my experience, I realized Notre Dame had lulled me into a false sense of security. While theft here isn't rampant, it does exist. It's just a reality that we aren't forced to confront very often. Simply put, Notre Dame is not the real world. Many Notre Dame students, however, choose to leave the relatively safe confines ofthe campus and move into South Bend during their senior year. While living off campus provides students with more freedom, it also comes with a host ofreal-world worries. Without the protection ofa closed campus, some off-campus students have had to face the frightening reality of violent crime. After a string of robberies -including some in which students were held up at gun-point-Scholastic decided to investigate the safety ofliving offcampus. Check out Katie Caspersen' s story on page 13 detailing the results of our investigation. Sarah Childress adds a look at campus crime as well. 



Race Cars. and Superstars 
Some people, it is said, live life in the fast lane. Rachael Protzman caught up with a few ofNotre Dame's fastest movers -the members ofthe Irish Racing Team. Herarticle about the team starts on page 8. Matchbox Twenty rolls into the JACC on Monday, October 2. Scholastic's Carrie Sweeney got a chance to speak with guitarist Adam Gaynor about the band, the tour and the fanatical Web sites devoted to the group. Her interview is on page 24. 
r/~ 
Ja.mes Pastore 
Editor in Chief 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY. LOVES, America's all about big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER'." How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 

The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY~ 

-
l"'IUlli_~~ -~~LY~~-_[d\< ··, -:>?~1l 

' cd review ten questions judgement calls news listening in domelights years ago [ 
t
The Trashmen Cometh 
Story by Aggie Noble 
Boy, you Domers are slobs Art by Caroline Wolf 
Notre Dame Stadium: a tailgater's para­dise outside and a concession-stand junkie's dream inside. But after grilling your pre-game brat to perfection and polishing off yournachos in the third quarter, where does all that trash go? Usually, the thousands of wrappers and leftovers find their way to the ground. Munching Notre Dame fans leave a huge amount of waste behind after every game. The people who restore the stadium to its pristine state each week come from Great Lakes Property Maintenance. The company cleans the seating area as well as the general parking lots. The maintenance staff begins work as soon as the band clears the field, splitting the work between several areas. At the Nebraska game, 24 people cleaned the stadium and 15 were assigned to the parking lots. The crews begin by cleaning up the seating area of the stadium, which takes them about four-to six-and-a-half hours. After they have cleaned the stadium, 

ii:, ------~·_..J·· 
1: -··--· --. 
l 
!. 
with.asophomore transfer student froinPurdue 

>> 
Although Christy was a Boilermaker her freshman year, the pull ofthe Blue and Gold proved too much for her to resist. Now she is trying to convert her die-hard Purdue family into Irish fans, a mission that might not be such a challenge after Saturday's win. · 
So what exactl.y is a Boilermaker? 
There's no real· connection except the drink, but somehow I don't think that's what you're looking for. There was this reporter for a newspaper in Crawfordsville, and he said that Purdue had "boilermakered" its way through a football game it won 44~ 
0. After that, othernewspapers started pick­ing it up. Nobody's really sure what a boilermaker is, though! 
How many people in your family went to Purdue? 
It started off with my dad -he was the first one. Then my mom went, and I have an older sister that went ... three ofmy dad's brothers and two ofhis sisters ... my mom's brother ... and I have four older cousins that all went to Purdue. 

How many were here for the game? 
We had a big tailgate, all with Purdue fans -my grandpa, two ofmy uncles, my aunt, a cousin and his girlfriend, and my brother and his friends came. 
Did you get a lot of teasing at the tail­gate? 



The Green World 
In terms of melding the physical with the spiritual, Dar Williams has something in common with Notre Dame football. Her new Razor & Tie release, The Green World, captures the hand-squeez­ing prayers, the exuberance of victory ex­pressed in the delicate el­egance of a 

...-_.1
lifted helmet. She doesn't <iJ compete with Dar Williams the volume of the crowd in this folksy reverie, but the interior crusades that she puts to music 
, carry the intensity ofthe offensive line. 
Williams matches '60s-folk-i-ock-influ­enced music with lyrics that draw inspira­tion from a number ofnoteworthy sources. "And A God Descended," for instance, al­ludes to the failed 17th-century Messianic movement, and "I Had No Right" conjures up the anti-Vietnam War poetry and pro­tests ofactivists Daniel and Philip Berrigan. Williams makes another Vietnam reference on one ofthe album's catchiest tracks, claim­ing that Yoko Ono's agenda did not include breaking up the Beatles, but instead con­sisted of "challenging the warring nations with her paper installations." Williams' subtle rhymes praise Yoko's beloved ("When John called the wind an opera / Making love with every chakra"), but her chorus poses a feministic challenge ("I won't beyour Yoko Ono ifyou're notgood enough for me"). 
Dar Williams is a teller for our time, spinning stories from the depths ofGreen­wich Village to the peaks ofNepal, bestow­ing her listeners with the precis of ancient and modem wisdom: "Life is as hard and as easy as they say." · 0 
Catch Dar Williams live at the Vic Theater in Chicago on September 29. 
judgmentcalIs 




11:i:t~!t":'Y~~~lW:!f.:1 
Two mailboxes are great, but is the light blinking for me or for my 
roommate? 

.,. •.is]iit:tf'li.r,J'.(:f~irt•;:: 
ot sandwiches for the masses -we like to slip some onions on the grill for a special treat.
8 ;;;:;'"_)C(i~":~i-1 The movie was better before we heard him speak at the pep rally . 


Q_)'iJi,~.8c~Sf~1/f0EI 
We love the money, but these noon-time games cut the tailgates short. 
>> 
Yeah I did, 'cause I had my ND shirt on, and everyone at the tailgate had on Purdue things, so they were all saying, "So what'd you do, just throw away all your Purdue stuff?" My mom wore a Notre Dame sweatshirt, but that was just for me. 
Did you have little Purdue cookies and decorations there?­
We had a Purdue tent, but some security people made us take it down. They said we couldn't have it. They really didn't have a . reason, they just said those were the rules! 
For all the non-Hoosiers, can you say what Purdue's known for? · 
Purdue has two really good schools: en­gineering and management. Management is second-best in the nation, and engineering is huge. Every other person you meet is some sort ofengineer. There's a good agri­cultural program, too. 
Someone told me thatthe·students have to wear farm boots to class. Is that true? 
Well, uh, there are a few local people from Lafayette that may come straight from the farm to class, but personally, I've never seen anyone walking around like th~t, and I've never worn them! 
Does all the milk in the dining hal.ls come from cows on campus? 
[Laughing.] Not to my knowledge. That's a new one to me. 
Who's got better food? 

Here, definitely. You just have more ofa selection. Also,at Purdue, eachdorm has its own cafeteria, and they're geared to differ­ent things. Last year, I was in the Wellness Hall, and they had all the food labeled. 
Where's there more to do, Lafayette or South Bend? 
They're both horrible! [Pause.] Actually, I guess I'm not really familiar with South Bend yet ... ask me in a month and maybe I can give you a different answer! 
-Tina Zurcher 



59Years Ago 
The Case for Hecklers 

Ifyou don't have anything nice to say .... 
An editorial in the October 3, 1941 issue ofNotre Dame Scholastic says: 
"In three years, the percentage of wits and half-wits among the student body hasn't changed perceptively .... After three years of listening to half a dozen hecklers from each ofthe forty-eight states, we've heard almost all ofthe inane interruptions that an individual under cover ofthe anonymity of a crowd can shout. 
"What [a heckler] fears most is to be noticed, identified or scorned by the very crowd he insists upon heckling. Every think­ing student should assume some measure of responsibility for the task ofremoving and keeping the heckler-nuisance away from every student gathering. 
"The heckler knows full well that if he has any message to give to a pep-rally, he can obtain the permission of the Student Council president ... to stand on the speak­ers' balcony and give that message. 
"The heckler is also aware that he can have his opinions printed in the Scholastic merely by signing his name to the opinionated ar­ticle." 
That goes for you, too, Zahm. 

-Sarah Childress 

"Now, this is an honor-code class. I expect all of you to use your own limbs." 
-ballet teacher 
"If Satan were going to be anywhere on campus, it would definitely be the Hammes Bookstore." -overheard student 

Husker: "Hey, who's on top of the Dome -Julius Caesar?" Domer: "No, that's Mary." Husker: "Oh. That makes sense." 
"All right, three more comments _and then w~'II get back to sex." --:-theology professor 

"I don't think Clinton could be criminally tried even if he beat the hell out of Hillary -much as some of us might want him to." 

domelig_h_ts__~__, 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 
Of the 1,250 acres of land that the university owns, about half is intensively maintained by Landscape Services. Here are some interesting facts about what goes into keeping the campus growing. 
··:>~ 
\\ .\ ...~~-. Full-time groundskeepers: 27 Times per week they mow the grass·: 1 Lawnmowers they use: 8 (two of these are 16 feet wide) ''i~ Sprinklers: over 65,000 Marigolds it takes to make the flower "ND": 50-75 flats 



Tunnelling· into the future 
Engineers at Notre Dames Hessert Center test tomorrows technology 
KATIEFREDDOSQ.

If you ask the average student about the Hessert Center for Aerospace Research, you would likely get a blank look in response. Workers at the facility call it one ofthe best-kept secrets on campus. Located behind thepowerplanton St. Joseph's Drive, the center has become a premier facility in aerospace research since its November 1991 dedication. This reputation is not surprising, given Notre Dame's history of involvement in aerospace engineering. More than 20 years before the Wright brothers became the first in flight, Father Albert Zahm was testing the lift and drag of model planes in his homemade, hand-driven wind tunnel on the campus. Since Zahm' s time, Notre Dame has made significant contributions to the field. Today, 25 graduate $tudents and about 10 professors conduct research inthe center's nine wind tunnels. The facility also has a tunnel for the approximately 20 under­graduate engineering majors who con­duct experiments every year at.the center. Each ofthe center's tunnels consists of a motor that blows air or water through a cone-shaped tube. The fluid accelerates through a section in the middle ofthe tube called the test section. This is where a model -such as a plane, an engine com­ponent, a car or even a building -is positioned. Depending on the size ofthe model and the desired air or water speed, the test section can range in size from a few square inches to 25 square feet. The fluid rushes through the test section, simulating the motion ofthe model through air or water. This helps determine whether the model has a sound, aerodynamic design. It is a cheaper and safer alternative to build­ing a plane without knowing its flight capa­bilities, or to constructing a building be­fore ensuring that it can withstand strong winds. The tunnels allow researchers to test and . improve engine efficiency, noise levels and pollution emission. According to graduate student Denis Lynch, the labs are intended to develop not only the students' technical skills, but also their ability to analyze and present their findings. Those who conduct research are required to orally defend their written lab reports. "[Students] have to not only do the measurements, but [they] also need to be able to convey the results of research," Lynch says. 
Researchers at the center are currently working on several projects for the U.S. government. Professor Thomas Corke is investigating ways to improve the efficiency of turbojet engines for NASA in a project that has required the construction of a new wind tunnel. Corke spent the summer de­signing and building the tunnel with the help ofhis daughter Catherine, a first-year engineering major, and Mike Klapetzky, a third-year aerospace engineering major. Klapetzky, who has had experience in con­struction, determined and ordered the parts needed based on Corke's design. "It has been good to get experience in a more aca­demic environment and ... deal more with people in the engineering and aerospace field," he says. 
Klapetzkywas notthe only one who found the experience beneficial. "Mike has been really fantastic," Corke says. "He's helped me a lot." 
Over the past two years, other under­graduates have spent their summers work­ing at the center under the direction of Professor Thomas Mueller and graduate student Gabriel Torres. The students re­searched micro aerial vehicles, which are low-speed bird-or insect-sized aircraft that can be flown by remote control. Among other things, practical MA Vs would allow soldiers to see around corners or peer into heavily guarded areas while minimizing risk to their own lives. 
Notre Dame has participated in MA V competitions against other university teams for the last two years. The MA Vs must complete a simulation offinding and photo­graphing a target. There have been no Irish victories yet, but the group has gained valu­able experience that will help them improve future models. 
The Hessert Center's benefits for profes­sors and big-name clients like NASA are clear, but it is possible that the undergradu­ates profit most. The university might point out the exceptional career preparation pro­vided by hands-on experience with the center's professional-grade equipment. But the students might have a simpler benefit on their minds as they research with their pro­fessors: the excitement of creating tomorrow's technology. D 


IN THE FAST LANE The truck of the Irish Racing Team carries Formula Lightning, the car that bro the land speed record for electric vehicles. 
the 


i 



SPEEDW
'I 
i 
The irish racing team rebuilds and looks to the future 
RACHAELPROTZMAN 

0 ne year ago, junior Randy Rausch knew almost nothing about cars. Now, he is responsible for helping to design, build and, yes, wash an electric car to be driven profes­sionally in races around the country as a member ofthe Irish Racing Team. The team was founded in 1993 to provide students with the opportunity to apply skills learned in the classroom and gain valuable hands-on experience. "We're an academic program, not a club and not a sport," says Professor William Berry, the team's advisor. "Most clubs don't stress academics." But for Rausch and his teammates, the team isn't just about learning. "We do it because it's so much fun and because we enjoy doing it," he says. And, although it offers students who are consid­ering a career in the automotive industry an advantage in the work force, the team isn't composed ofengineering majors alone. "It's an electric car, but I don't think we even have any electrical engineer­ing majors on the team," Rausch, a computer engineering major, says. "We have pre-med, music and business majors, too." Most students on the team volunteer their time to design, test and race the car, but students can also opt to earn college credit by working on a specific project. Although he oversees much ofthe stude.nts' work and assists with higher-level electrical work, Berry believes in staying out of the team's way. "I could go out and make improvements on the car, but that's not the idea," Berry says. "The concept is to get the students to do it and to learn by doing it." "I was kind ofscared to work on the race carat first," Rausch says, 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

'l 
"because I figured it was kind ofimportant and I didn't want to kill our driver." Rausch has since overcome his fear, as he is now crew chiefofthe seven-member team. 
He and the other core members of the team now have three cars to work with: the "honey mobile," a practice electric car they can strip down, a newly acquired Geo Metro and, ofcourse, the race car. The Metro hasn't runin five years, but that's just part ofthe challenge for Rausch. He says, "I'm.just trying to get it to actually work." Both the "honey-mobile" and the non­functioning Metro provide extra hands-on experience for team members. This multiplicity of vehicles allows even more stu­dents to become involved. 
The actual race car is, obviously, the focus ofthe team. Because the team races the car against other college teams, it must purchase a standard chassis, or frame, for the car,, the power source, motor and transmission are the responsibility ofthe students. Stephanie Buffa, a junior computer engineering major, notes that the students are responsible for most ofthe work, and-she appreciates that-it leads to a lot ofquality learning. 
Actual races require the work of a nine-student pit crew: one person acts as the manager and theremaining eight exchange the car's 1,300-pound battery pack. The race experience is not limited to the pit crew; other students are welcome to tag along. 
Races between student-built electric cars are a relatively new phenomenon. In 1993 Ernie Holden of the Solar and Electric Racing Association envisioned a college racing program that would increase interest in the fµrther development ofthe elec­tric car. With funding from the Illuminating Company ofCleve­land, Holden began the annual races in conjunction with the Cleveland Grand Prix, an es_tablished July event. Notre Dame was one of the first schools to become involved when his idea became a reality. 


That same year, after obtaining funding from both the University of Notre Dame and Delco Remy, a research and development division of General Motors, the Irish Racing Team designed a motor and constructed its car: the team was well on its way to competing. 
Everything seemed to be going well for the team, but with just five weeks left until the big race in Cleveland, the program suffered a major setback: the driver had to deliberately wreck the car during a test drive in order to avoid hitting people. Half of the car was destroyed in the accident, and it didn't look like the team would be able to compete after all. 
But the team refused to let the program die. The students worked frantically for three weeks to rebuild the car, and their efforts paid off-they managed to get the car running again in time for the race. When it was finished, University President Father Edward Malloy blessed the car, and the team was ready to compete. 
In July 1994, the team participated in its first race, the Cleveland Electrical Formula Classic. Its car, christened Formula Lightning came in first place in the field of 12 major schools and set a land speed record for electric vehicles. 
Since then, the team has participated in about 10 races, but has not earned another first-place finish. 
In fact, this summer's participation in the Winchester race marked the first time in three years that the Irish have participated in a race. The team did not compete as well as it had hoped, finishing fifth. 
z 
0 
;;; 
:, 
0 
:!, 
a:(1) 

"I look at the schools that were ahead ofus at Winchester," Berry says. "They're schools that have edged up while we haven't been · participating. The [Notre Dame] teams in the past couple years have been more interested in racing than in improving the car. This year's team, like the first team, is interested in improving the car." 
Stephanie Buffa recalls her experience at Winchester. "It was really hectic because it was the first race I'd ever raced in, so I was just kind ofleaming what goes on. Stuff had to be done, and the car had to be ready to run," she says. 
Berry sees the Irish in the winner's circle soon. "Some of these improvements that we 're putting in should bring us up a couple of positions, to the point where we're competing with the top again," he says. 
The students are looking ahead to future races, one in the spring and possibly a couple next summer. Until then, they will continue to improve the car."I really feel good about the group this year," says Berry. "They are a more dedicated team than past years. They have, in some sense, a better career projection." 
Though wins recently have been few and far between, the Irish Racing Team has not gotten down. Rausch doesn't seem to care about wins as much as experience. He gets a kick out of just watching the team's hard work in action -the race car has become the pride ofthe team. "That is amazing,just being on the race track with all the other cars," he says. Even with the knowledge that winning isn't everything, the team has high hopes for the upcoming season. Perhaps Rausch sums it up best when he says, "We should be very competitive this year." 0 
Jenny Wahoske and Sarah Childress contributed to this article. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 


As much as one ton of meat passes through the butcher shop (top) every day. This is where the fajita and taco meat, as well as all meat for soups are processed. A food-services worker (bottom) slices carrots that have just been pulled out 
of the freezers in the storage warehouse. 
1 O SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


A steaming vat (left) simmers 80 gallons of 
· broccoli-cheese soup to be cooled and delivered to the dining halls in two-gallon bags. Over the course of a year, 70,000 gallons of soups and sauces are processed here -enough to fill three or four tanker trucks. 

Most of these lettuce heads (above) will soon be tossed into an industrial­strength food shredder, which can handle 800 pounds of onions every 15 minutes. The lettuce for the dining halls' tossed salads, however, is cut by hand. · 
The bakery (left) will make about 230 dozen muffins this morning, while on cookie days the cookie machine can cut more than 500 dozen an hour. The dining halls serve the bakery's 125 desserts on a four-week rotation schedule. Students who really love the strawberry muffins, though, should drop notes to the DH managers: "If you put enough suggestions in the box, they'll listen," Cira says. 
FEEDING THE STUDEN1 BODY IS NO SMALL TASK 

' ., . 

KIMBERLYBLACKWELL 
Four years ago, Notre Dame Food Services Support moved from the cramped quarters of the basement of South Dining Hall to a new facility off of Douglas Road. This much larger build­ing has all the resources Food Services needs to live up to its mission of cater­ing to Notre Dame students' apparently insatiable appetites by providing qual­ity food and service. The amount of food processed here is staggering. A small sampling: 40,000 Grab 'n' Go sandwiches per month, 500 dozen cook­ies per day and 60,000 pounds of chicken stir-fry per year. Do students really eat that much food? "Yes, you do!" says Operations Manager Jim Cira. That includes those 400 pounds of to­matoes that Food Services needs every week to do it your way at Burger King. 
'  •  •  •  •  '  ,  • ,­ •  ,,:  ~ • o •  ••  I •  
- 
.  .  
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE  11  

12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


STOPPERS 
Off-campus crimes spur students and police to step up preventative measures 
Itwas a peaceful summer night. One week was left before classes, and St. Peter Street was . fairly empty. Three Notre Dame students sat on the front porch of their house discussing the summer and their upcoming senior year. After enjoying some cigarettes and each other's com­pany for a few hours, the students began to notice the same cars passing by over and over again. Soon after, a man in a hooded sweatshirt ap­proached the porch and asked to bum a smoke. As one student handed over a cigarette, a man in a hooded sweatshiii came from around the back of the house. The second man turned to face the porch, revealing a mask stretched over his face and a sawed-off shotgun in his arms. The two men demanded money. After the scrambling students emptied their pockets, the men instructed them to lie face-down on the porch and fled. The assailants took little more than $100, but the students quickly learned that in addition to increased freedom, living offcampus also means a whole new level of danger. 
Withjust under 1,500 Notre Dame undergradu­
. ates living off-campus -including more than 50 percent ofthe senior class -off-campus crime is a major concern for many students. Each year, more students choose to live outside the campus gates and often find themselves in very dangerous situations. Karen Cole*, a Notre Dame senior living on St. Peter Street, was also robbed at gunpoint in mid­July. "They know we're vulnerable, they know we don't have guns and that we can't protect ourselves," says Cole. "The police have come to talk to us about crime prevention and I feel fairly safe now, but if our dog gets off his leash and I have to chase him through the neighborhood, I definitely feel that my life is threatened." South Bend Police Chief Larry Bennett points out that students can take steps to protect them­selves. "It isn't so much that students are being targeted, but ifstudents don't use common sense, they become an easy target," he says. "Students need to become familiar with their sun-oundings 
*Karen Cole is a pseudonym used to protect the student's identity 
BY l

KATIE

CASPERSEN PHOTOGRAPH BY KATE FOSTER 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 

1: 
Ii 

and try to understand how the criminal element works. Ifyou're throwing a house party, don't leav:e your front door wide open while you're out back." 
Junior Matthew Sarb understands how parties can turn into potentially dangerous situations. He and his friends attended a house party near Lafayette Streettoward the beginning of the school year. "Townies lived on either side ofthe house, and they ended up coming into the party," Sarb says. "Everythingwasfineuntiloneofthetownies lifted up his shirt and started showing offhis gun. Nothing really happened, but ifhe had wanted to cause trouble no one there could have stopped him." 
While some types oftrouble are unavoid­able, students can often avoid putting them­selves in dangerous situations. "The burden ofresponsibility for not being a victim is on the potential victim and taking the right crime-prevention steps," says Detective Lieutenant Phil Trent of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). Bennett em­phasizes that certain behavior invites crimi­nal activity. "Ifyou set your big-screen TV by the window where everyone can see it, you are asking for trouble," Bennet says. 
Burglary is an increasing concern ofmany students. Senior Kristin Conners lives in a house on St. Peter Street that was burglar­ized twice over the summer. "The thefts were very random," Conners says. "They took computers, costume jewelry and a pic­ture frame." Conners explains that the loss of property wasn't the only impact of the crime. "Itwas disturbing to know that some­one had been in our house," she says. 
In a perhaps more frightening incident, senior Mike Dickerson was at home when a robber attempted to enter his house on Corby Street. "Someone tried to break into our house at four in the morning one week while most ofus were sleeping," Dickerson says. "Luckily,oneofmyroommateswasstillup. He called the police, and they came right_ away. We always keep our blinds down, our alarm system on, and now we know that the cops will respond very quickly if we need them to." 

Crime victims have been very pleased with the police support that they have re­ceived. "They've been great," says Cole. "The South Bend Police Department has been extremely protective, and the Notre Dame Police patrol our area even though they are not required [to do so]." 
The police department has taken steps to 
Walking from Keenan to the Huddle is one thing, but walking from Lafayette to the 7-Eleven is a whole other story. 


Frank Chetalo 
improve and modernize its crime-figh~ing efforts. All uniformed police officers carry laptop computers, which speed response time. Dispatchers can send calls.directly to the laptop, eliminating the chance that crimi­nals will intercept a radioed message with a police scanner. 
The department is also in the process of 
implementing a new computer program 

called Compstat, the same program the New 
York City Police Department uses to moni­
torand fight crime. "The Compstat program 
would mean major changes in this depart­
ment," Chief Bennet says. "South Bend is 
too big and there is too much going on. 
Changes need to be made." 
Changes need to be made in the private 

sector as well. Domus Properties, the com­
pany that owns most ofthe studenthouses in 
the northeast area of the city, has tried to combat the increase in crime. Inresponse to the incidents earlier this year, the company 
has installed bars on the windows ofmany 
ofthe houses it owns. Atthe request ofthe SBPD, Domus Prop­erties has also reworked some of the land­
scaping that surrounds its houses, removing 
large bushes that criminals can use to con­
ceal themselves. "Evecyone needs to work 
together," Trent says. "In a lot ofways that 
means that if you're renting a house and 
paying a landlord a king's ransom for rent, 
that landlord makes sure there aren't nine­
foot bushes in front ofyour house and that · there's adequate lighting." 
Instead ofrenting a house, many students 

choose apartments for added security. But 
apartment complexes are not necessarily a 
safer alternative. "Whether you live in a 
complex or a rental you are a potential 
-victim," Bennet says. 
Rates for crimes such as larceny, vandal­

ism and burglary at some of the apartment 
complexes popular with students are equal 
to or higher than the rates within popular 
student neighborhoods. "You are not nearly as safe offcampus as you'd like to think you are," says Frank 
Chetalo, a senior living in aLafayette apart­
ment. "You feel secure when you are in your 
dorm room, but when you leave that haven 
there are no guarantees. Walking from 
Keenan to the Huddle is one thing, but 
walking from 1:,afayette to the 7-Eleven is a 
whole other story." 

14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


BY THE 
u..i
NUMBERS 
>
<(
Crime Incident 
z 
~ UJ
~ 
en

00 en .2 Cl)
reports in 

1-o a: (IC) <( Cl)
enc
student 

C!:l.-_o --UJ l\l 0 l\l
en

z T'" :::::, l!) I-I'-T'"
:::::,

~~ -w UJ z Wz
neighborhoods 

:c 0~
I

I-UJ a: I
..Jo a.. 6 a..$

a:w enc ,0 ,0 2w 1-0 
:::::, a: I-T'" I-T'" o;?
I-() $ <( ill 0 en en Cl) Cl) O><( -z Cl) 

f~l.i.~~fAF(fJ!'::•.'.'.:AfJ:,~•:~"1,:~:',:}N:;\:•:1.,~:F, ,·..,}ij~::-:;::\(i~J§;·i?.;::::;t'.f~:,•,~<;-;::.:3_i.\\'.:,.:?, ;j l'R_<S:8¥E,~XJ0:J(J~~;W{'.'.·0r1r'.~i::.~::~rn:gq~:;;i,;:;;,?hPY:~~~:e:::,'1'.:'.::B/E?~~+~r,.~d3~:/?);j [XssAV,t.+!;>"<i~.M::~•-·:,~$':P'?\iA:~,,::;-1%~r;··>i'I~;~t?:{:;:+;;.:~rc;;,;;:~~>~-:~-~i~::y:/:/)12?;;i_:7+-.J 
tA919·rtH~~f:;)J·:~'.;y•:"'./~"V•··:·m;,·r;::f•,;1~!\•:··\::0s1·:-tt;:;'.;:::si;•:;;c••·••::::,:?:,}•'a/:;?_,,;-,:~·•·w·,:·:·;•~fC•-1 
• INFORMATION COURTESY OF THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMENT 
Senior Adam Frtck, another Lafayette resident, agrees. "You don't really think about it, but there are dorm habits that you have to break when you move offcampus," he says. "In your dorm room, if someone knocks, you say 'come in' and you don't think twice. Here, that mentality has gotten us into some trouble." 

One weekend at 1 :30 a.m., Frick and his frie~ds were talking on the couch when there was a knock at the door. "Without a second thought I shouted, 'Come in,' and the next thing we knew there was a strange 
man standing there in our kitchen," he says. 
"Not only was there a complete stranger in 
the middle of our apartment, but we were 
the ones who let him walk right in. We were 
lucky, nothing really happened, but it was 
definitely a wake-up call letting us know that we needed to be more careful." 
Lafayette has had a few minor incidents oftrespassing and vandalism this semester, but other than several car break-ins, there havebeenno reported burglaries this year or last year. Each apartment has an ADT alarm system that students can activate for a fee, and there is also a ground patrol that moni­tors anywhere from 10 to 35 hours perweek depending on the amount of parties and activity in the complex. 
With the Dome still clearly in view and a large amount of student residents, those who live at Turtle Creek often operate under the same false sense of security that Frick describes. "I don't know if I'm just being ignorant, but I feel safe living off campus, especially at Turtle Creek~" says senior Aubrey Brackman. "Withall ofthe students around, it doesn't feel that different." 
Turtle Creek Apartments refused to com­ment on any security issues, but police re­ports show that in the past two years Turtle Creek has had higher incidences oflarceny than Campus View or the St. Peter Street area, and comparable burglary rates. 
College Park, on the other hand, is a student-only residence that has remained relatively crime-free in recent years. "The only problems we have had this year were two break-ins on cars," comments P.R. Gibson, head of security for College Park. "Last year we only had one break-in. There are safety locks and regular locks on all of the doors and the neighborhood is mostly a retired area." 
Other apartment complexes enjoy a repu­tation for excellent security. Castle Point, known among students as one ofthe safest 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 



off-campus alternatives, has actually done away with one of its safety trademarks. A guard no longer sits at the front gate ofthe complex to monitor incoming and outgoing traffic, due to a lack offunds. County police, however, continue to patrol the complex at night, while the number ofsecurity cameras on the premises has increased. Castle Point has had very few problems other than the occasional car break-in. "I feel very safe here," says Annie Ralph, a senior Castle Point resident. "I don't think we are as much ofa target as the all-student apartment com­plexes, because there is not a single time of day or year when everyone is gone." 
"The neighborhood around the area is very safe and residential," says Castle Point Manager JeffArthur. "Even though there is no guard at the front, there has been no increase in crime to speak of. We still want to maintain feelings ofhigh security. It goes with our reputation." 
Campus View Apartments, however, has increased security measures. The complex has instituted an all-weekend security watch this year in an attempt to combat an increase in crime. The watch lasts from 10 p.m. to 6 
a.m. Friday through Sunday and two other days during the week. So far this year, there have been no break-ins. "Campus View is in more of a business area, so there is less neighborhood crime," says Property Man­ager Cindy Williams, "but we have had enough incidents to know that this was a problem we needed to address." 
The weekend ofthe Nebraska game, Sarb and his friends decided to brave another off­campus party, this time at Campus View. "We were pretty tired and we decided to head back to campus," he says. "All of a sudden, the Campus View security guard was telling us to get back to our apartments. He said shots had been fired and that we needed to get inside." 
Williams confirms that shots were fired the evening of September 8. "But no one was hurt, there was no damage and the culprits were chased out onto Dunn Road by our security guards," she says. 
Despite his bad luck at off-campus par­ties this semester, Sarb is still giving seri­ous consideration to moving off campus next year. "I think I could save some money living off campus," he says. "I would just have to find some place that was still fairly cheap, but not as dangerous." 
As students continue to venture from outside the campus bubble of safety, do they have any hope for a decrease in crime? 
"One thing that affects the crime rate in 



HOME 
PROTECTION 
Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office ofResidence work to combat campus crime 
SARAHCHILDRESS 

With the serenity of the lakes and the picturesque, ivy­covered buildings, Notre Dame students are often lulled into a sense ofsecurity on campus. "I think a lot of freshmen come here thinking they're under the shadow of the Golden Dome and nothing can touch them," says Rex Rakow, director ofthe Notre Dame Security/Police Department. "But there's no­where in the world where you can be completely safe." Forthis reason, he and the rest ofthe department work with the Office of Residence Life to make students relatively safe -and to keep them in line. 
According to a national study ofdangerous campuses con­ducted by ABP.com, a Web site dedicated to crime news and statistics, Notre Dame ranked 726 out of 1,497 universities, and was awarded a "low to moderate" crime risk rating. But Rakow, who has been involved with police departments at such· schools as Albion College, Michigan State University and Indiana University in Bloomington, insists that statistics aren't everything. "Every cam­pus is different," he says. "It's unfair to coin pare universities," citing location and demographics as factors used to determine the types of problems campuses might have. 
If every college has different problems, Notre Dame's is theft. Recent statistics complied by NDSP, which report all investigations ofon-campus criminal activity from 1996 to 1998, place the number ofinvestigated thefts in the low 400s each year. Every year for the past three years, there have been no more than two investigations each of on-campus rape, assault and forcible fondling. An average of 14 reports offorcible-entry burglaries are investigated each year, while burglaries with unforced entries decreased from 63 to 32 from 1997 to 1998. Reports of motor-vehicle theft have stayed consis­tently at an average of 10 per year. 
These statistics do not include any report to security/police that goes uninvestigated, although Rakow says the number of reports investigated is comparable to the number they actually receive. "We investigate on a higher frequency than other departments," he says. "Our investigators have heavy caseloads, and they follow up on pretty much everything that's reported." 
Also excluded, however, are reports to the Office of Residence Life that never reach NDSP. Two rapes in 1996 and 1997 and one forcible fondling in 1997 were reported"to the Office ofResidence Life but do not appear in crime statistics because NDSP never investigated the reports. 
The department also discounts any report of crimes involving students offcampus, and, in fact, no off-campus crime statistics are 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

In your dorm room if someone knocks,. you say 'come in' and you don't think twice. Here, that mentality has gotten us into some trouble. 


Adam Frick 
this county is the fact that we have a county them off the streets." jail downtown that is full," Bennet says. "I Regardless of increased or decreased would venture to say that next June when crime rates, students need to use common the new county jail opens that you will see sense at all times. "No matter what neigh­some changes within St. Joseph County in borhood or city that you live in, everyone how the criminal element handles them­needs to be cognizant and aware of what's selves because we will now be able to get going on around them at all times," Bennet explains, "whether you're a student ornot." 
Chetalo echoes Bennet's advice. "You just have to watch your toes and keep your guard up." 
All ofthe students interviewed reaffirmed their decision to move off campus despite their experiences. "I would still move off campus, no question, but I would definitely look for a safer neighborhood," Cole says. "I would do more research ahead of time, talking to more students and landlords." 
When it comes down to it, some students believe dealing with crime is simply a part ofmoving into the real world. "The univer­sity can't take care of us forever," Frick says. "We make the choice to take on mqre responsibility and to take a step forward. You just need to be aware that it's not the safest step forward when you walk into South Bend." . 
released in o_rder to prot1fot the anonymity ofthe perpetrators and victims. "A lot ofour sexual assault cases occur offcamp_iis," says Jeffery Shoup, director ofthe Office ofResidence Life, citing four that occurred last year. . _ 
But even most . on-campus rapes evade statistics, as many 
. victims are reluctant to tum to police. "Unfortunately, date rapes ·probably happen every week here, in some form or another," · Rakow says. Most, ifnot all, are never reported. 
·Although the department does notkeep any statistics onwhether the crimes are perpetrated by students or persons not affiliated with the university, Rakow reports the split is fairly even. 
Rakow says that NDSP does its best to alert students to potential dangers. The department posts Campus Watch notices in build­.ings oncamp~s in accordance with federal legislation, r~quiring college campuses to provide "timely notice ofany incident known by police that. would phaUenge the safety and security of a student," says Rakow. These bulletins, which are usuaJly printed 
· once or twice per semester, notify students and faculty of a potential threat and encourage them to stay alert and report any findings to the department.· "We've solved a lot of cases by students, faculty and staff being good citizeris," he says. . 
In addition to protection, th.e department also has the charge of disciplining students. Almost all investigated reports are for­warded to the Office ofResidence Life for review. "We deal with 
· itnything from parking tickets to serious assaults; thefts _and DUis," says Shoup. . · The Office of Residence Life also deals not only with on­
. campus offenses but also student violations ofdu Lac that occur athome, on vacation-evenoverseas. NDSP arid the South Bend Police Department send reports of the criminal misbehavior of Notre Dame students to the Office ofResidence Life for review.· 
Residence Life also receives reports from other university secu­rity or police departments if a Notre Dame student commits a crime at an away football game. 
"You've got to be good here," Rakow says with a laugh. "du Lac follows students to the end ofthe earth-maybe beyond the end," citing an example in which a student received a university sanction for a du Lac violation he committed while in Florida on spring break. · 
Shoup says that the reason for this policy is that Notre Dame students represent the-university no matter where they are. But the chances ofthe office hearing about out-of-state infractions of du Lac are slim, he says. "Really, if you're away from the university, you're unlucky ifwe find out." 
In terms ofdu Lac violations, Shoup believes that the level of cases rema.ins at a relatively constant low. Although he wouldnot divulge statistics of individual crimes to protect students' ano­nymity, he says that the Office ofResidence Life processed 653 cases during the 1999-2000 academic year, a number comparable to number the of cases processed in previous years. 
After working in disciplinary programs at the University of South Dakota and Kent State University, he cites highe_r stan­dards and an emphasis on values as the differences between Notre Dame and other schools. "I think we tend to respond a little bit more seriously here," he says. "But!think our policies are similar to most universities in the area ofour size." 
Despite the problems that all universities have with crime, Rakow believes.the· sense of security students have here is justified. "Certainly, we have trouble from time to time, but students feel safe here overall..: . · It's a wann, welcoming 
community." · ·· And ifNDSP and__ResLife have anything to do with it, it will stay that way. . 


SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 

.•./\". ,·. ,,. ·....-.\•-·vvn .9.. ,a.. e -er o .e-e I or. ..\ ~/ii4~•i1• us ·at:· . 
•i.l• 

-,.\§Ch"cil~~$t'.@n-d.-~dU
• -.' ,-'•1'•' ( 


l f
i 
I 

Rocky Boiman is a 6~foot-4, 290-pound line­backer from Cincinnati, Ohio. He played in a platoon role last year before becoming a full­time starter in 2000. Since joining the perma­nent starting corps, he has played two eye­opening defensive games against Texas A&M and Nebraska, amassing 18 tackles, two of which were sacks. 

My biggest tackle in a Notre Dame uniform was: when I sacked Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch. 
My biggest game as a Notre Dame football player was: playing against the No. I Nebraska Cornhuskers. 
The most important game I played was: every game. I give my best effort every game and play them all like they're the most important one. 
The team I would most like to face this year in a bowl game is: Nebraska, preferably in the Orange Bowl. 
I would describe playing in the 1999 Gator Bowl as: a tremendous experi­ence, especially since it was my fresh­man year. I only wish we could have won that game. 
I would describe balancing football with my preprofessional schedule as: pretty hard. Taking summer classes, such as organic chemistry, helps to free my schedule during the year. 
The· hardest class I have taken at Notre Dame is: organic chemistry, by far. 
The most interesting class I have taken at Notre Dame is: also organic chemistry. 
Ifl could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: baseball. I played in high school and considered college ball, but discovered how much more I loved football. 
My favorite place to play outside of Notre Dame is: Tennessee. Playing there was an awesome experience with the fans and the way that they are set up in the stadium. 
When I looked at the stands during the Nebraska game, I felt: disappointed. I give credit to all the students in the student section, though, who overshad­owed the sea of red during the game. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Football (2-1) 
Key Stat: Without quar­terback Arnaz Battle or linebacker Grant Irons, Notre Dame defeated a ranked team for the sec­ond time in three weeks. 
Prime Time Performer: Quarterback Gary Godsey completed 14 of 25 passes and rushed for a touchdown in his first college start. 
Next Game: Notre Dame travels to East Lan­sing, Mich. to battle Michi­gan State Saturday at 
3:30 p.m. EST. 

Women's Soccer (7-0) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame's impressive start has earnedtheteamthe num­ber-one ranking. 
Prime Time Performer: Forward Meotis Erikson scores her 50th goal, and the only one in Notre Dame's 1-0 win over Port­land on Sunday. 
Next Game: The Irish face West Virginia in Morgantown, W.V. tomor­row at 6:30 p.m. EST. 

Men's Soccer (4-3-1) 
Key Stat: The Irish won their first home contest on Tuesday against Cleveland State. 
Prime Time Performer: 
Goalkeeper Greg Tait held Cleveland State to one goal in the Irish vic­tory. 
Next Game: The Irish host Seton Hall tomorrow at 7:.30 p.m. EST. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 by Lee De Leon 
.  .  
'  '  '  ,  (  
1995.  ~  ·  






FROZEN MOMENTS 
V
V 

The Irish women's soccer team proves that tradition isn't everything as it defeats North Carolina on the way to becoming the NCAA cha~pions. 
NOTRE DAME: 1 UNIVERSITY OF PORTLAND: O 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team came into the 1995 season with the goal ofwinning it all­and of defeating North Carolina along the way. The Tar Heels had captured the NCAA national championship in the last nine years, and they had embarrassed the Irish in the previous year's final round with a 5-0 rout. With many key Irish players returning, however, Notre Dame looked to become one of only three schools to ever win an NCAA national championship for women's soccer. 
Following an outstanding 19-2-2 regular season, the Irish easily defeated Rutgers in the Big East tournament and went on to blank the University of Connecticut 1-0 in the finals. The Irish entered the NCAA tournament ranked fourth in the nation. This impressive standing earned them a first-round bye and a second-round meeting with the No. 18 Wisconsin Badgers on Notre Dame's own Alumni Field. The Irish cruised to a 5-0 victory, then picked up another shutout in their next game by beating Connecticut 2-0. 
In the semifinal round, Notre Dame faced the seemingly impossible task of defeating the Tar Heels in North Caro­lina. The Tar Heels had lost only one game at Chapel Hill while winning their last 31 NCAA tournament games. "There were only 24 people who thought that we could win this game -and they were all in this locker room," Irish Head Coach Chris Petrucelli said. "I don't think anyone outside our team gave us a chance ofwinning." 
An impressive crowd of 7,212 fans showed up for the contest, the largest ever to witness a college women's soccer match. Notre Dame applied serious pressure on the Tar Heels from the opening whistle, coming out strong and surprising its heavily favored opponent. This pressure paid off in the 19th minute of the match when the Irish attacked the Tar Heel goal. North Carolina's All­American forward and current U.S. National Team standout Cindy Parlow headed an Irish pass out ofher team's penalty area. Irish junior Cindy Daws rerouted the ball back towards the goal. This time, Parlow's attempt at a clearing header ended up in the back of her own net. Notre Dame tallied the first score of the game on a rare Tar Heel mistake. 
The contest's final 70 minutes were a defensive battle in which neither team could convert its opportunities. The Irish won the game 1-0 and advanced to the finals ofthe NCAA tournament for the second consecutive year. This proved to be the only 1-0 defeat in North Carolina's history, and it also ended the school's nine-year women's soccer dynasty. 
The Irish then moved on to the finals to face the talented University of Portland Pilots, ranked second in the nation. This game featured a memorable struggle between the high-powered Portland offense, led by All-American Shannon MacMillan, and the stingy Notre Dame defense, anchored by standout Kate Sobrero. The two teams fought through 90 minutes of scoreless regulation, two IS-minute overtime periods and five minutes of sudden death. 
The match came to an unexpected end when baws made another game-winning play. The referees called a foul against the Pilots and awarded a direct free kick to the Irish just outside the Portland penalty area. Before Portland goalkeeper Erin Fahey could finish organizing her wall, Daws quickly put the ball down and shot it amidst the confusion. Fahey, who was screened by her teammates, could not stop the ball as it entered the goal. Daws' shot ended the match and won the Irish a national championship. 
Many doubted Notre Dame's 1995 women's soccer team, but the Irish proved the naysayers wrong. The team had achieved the illustrious goal that it had originally set for itself: winning a national championship and ending the Tar Heels' NCAA-title streak. Coach Petrucelli explained after the game, "For a long time we had talked about winning a national championship and we finally did it." . 

East Lansing provides a difficult arena for the first Irish road game. Notre Dame struggles, but ultimately pulls out a 17­14 victory. 
-Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 


Notre Dame had an ominous 0-5 record on the road last year. However, the Irish prove once and for all that last year was a fluke, crushing Michigan State in their own house, 38-14. 
-Gerard Meskill Sports Editor 

Gary Godsey proves once again that he's our man, even away from home. • The Irish defense contin­ues its dominance, leading the team to a 24­13 win over Michigan State. 
-Jessica Daues Assistant Sports Editor 

Irish swimmers compete in the Olympic trials 
ANNVARGA 
Swimming was fun when I was 10. It came from the heart. These Olym­pic trials reminded me why I swim, and why it is in my heart to begin with." These are the words ofKristen Van Saun, senior co-captain of the 2000-2001 Notre Dame women's swim team. The other nine members of the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams who participated in the 2000 Olympic trials held this August in Indianapolis echoed similar sentiments. To these exceptional individuals, this past sum­mer was a testament to their hard work and dedication to the sport. For many Notre Dame swimmers, includ­ing three-time All-American Carrie Nixon, the dream of participating in the Olympic trials is always present. "All my life, I've wanted to go to the trials," she says. "I started swimming at age eight, and when you are little you hear about all the big­name swimmers and have posters of them. I knew after my freshman •year at Notre Dame that I could compete at that level and have a shot at going." · Dan Szilier, the school record-holder in the 200-m breastroke, also had aspirations to make the trial cut. "My club team at home is a ve1y high-level program," Szilier says. "This level oftraining early on in my career helped me to prepare for the trials." Swimmers took many different ap­proaches in training for the trials. The five women swimmers remained on campus dur­ing the summer. Among the women training at Notre Dame were Nixon, Van Saun, se­nior Tiffany O'Brien and juniors Allison Lloyd and Kelly Recking. The five swam under the name "Irish Aquatics" and prac­ticed eight times a week while juggling summer classes. 
The male swimmern, however, chose to train at other places throughout the United States. Junior Jonathan Pierce traveled to Austin, Tex. to train with the University of Texas' swim team, where Irish Assistant Coach Jonathan Jennings swam during his collegiate career. Szilier returned to his hometown to train with his club team. 
Senior Ryan Verlin also returned home to prepare for the trials. His family and fiiends hosted a send-off party to wish him luck at the trials. "Support from my hometown was tre­mendous," recalled Verlin. "I started swim­ming at age five, and I knew this would be my last year of competitive swimming. It was a celebration ofswimming and myself." 
The trials in Indianapolis proved to be a different experience for each swimmer in­volved. Nixon described the atmosphere at the trials as "magical." 
"I wish I could share with Notre Dame the feeling of the atmosphere and the pride I felt," she says. "Itwas the biggest meet I had ever been to. The deck was so crowded and everyone was so excited." Nixon swam in three events: the 100-m butterfly, the 100-m freestyle and 50-m freestyle, finishing 3 8th, 
the trials·, ~as· pleased overall With the oht-:: .' f':J 
come. "I wanted to make the tearri \,ery badly," she explains, "but I am also very  ~ i  l  
excited [to swim for Notre Dame] this year.  :::,  
We have a great team."  
O'Brien swam in the 400-m individual  
medley and described herself as "awestruck"  
by the atmosphere. O'Brien, whose mother  
swam for Canada in the 1976 Olympics,  
also competed in the Canadian Olympic  
trials in 1996. "The main difference be­ 
tween the U.S. and Canadian-trials is that  
[the U.S. swimmers are] faster," she notes.  
Freshmen Marie Labowsky and Lisa D'Olier  
also competed in Indianapolis.  
Tim Welsh, head coach ofthe Irish men's  
swim team, believes that it is "unquestion­ 
able" that the experience his swimmers  
gained at the Olympic trials will aid the  
team this season. "[Verlin, Szilier and  
Pierce] are three guys working hard all the  
time," Welsh says. "They are Irish men to  
the core." Kristen Heath, assistant women's  
swim coach, has similar feelings. "As cap­ 
tains, Carrie [Nixon] and Kristen [Van Saun  
will] bring leadership to the pool every  
day," she says.  
Although none of the Irish swimmers  
actually made the Olympic team, the les­ 
sons they learned will definitely help them  
in future meets. Van Saun, for example, re­ 
learned just why she started swimming in  
the first place. "These trials gave me a  
renewed spirit for swimming," says Van  
Saun.  
Szilier adds with a grin, "If I learned  
anything from these trials, it was that I look  
really good in a black body suit." 0  
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21  





JESSICADAUES 
Notre Dame football is famous for its players' successes after graduation. Since the National Football League began drafting players in 1936, 410 Notre Dame players have been chosen by NFL teams. Notre Dame boasts 55 first-round draft picks and five players drafted as the No. 1 pick in the entire draft-more than any other institution. Regardless of the success they find in the NFL or in other endeavors, many players look back fondly on their time at Notre Dame, remembering the days when they donned their golden helmets and ran out of the tunnel to greet thousands of screaming Irish fans. This summer, 55 former players had a chance to relive such memories of Irish glory. On July 2, a football team composed of Notre Dame alumni traveled to Ham­burg, Germany to take part in the 2000 Charity Bowl. For the past eight years, Germany has organized a bowl game in which the Hamburg Blue Devils of NFL Europe play an exhibition game against a college team from the United States. Pro­ceeds are donated to both the German char­ity "Kinder Helfen Kindern" (Kids Helping 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

Kids), and a charity designated by the visit­ing team. "Usually, it's some little, class-III school that goes over there," says Father James Riehle, executive director ofthe Notre Dame Monogram Club. This year, how­ever, the organizers decided to ask a school with more drawing power, such as the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. But there was one 
· problem: "In the NCAA, Division-I under­graduates can't [participate]," Riehle says. Because of this restriction, Notre Dame decided to send an alumni team instead. For their charity, the players chose the Notre Dame Brennan-Boland Scholarship Fund, which provides need-based scholarships to children offormer monogram winners, Notre Dame varsity athletes who earn special rec­ognition for the contributions they make to their repective teams. The project was organized by a commit­tee of former Notre Dame football players, including Pat Eilers '89 and Mark Green '89, both members of the 1988 national championship team. Playerparticipation was strictly voluntary. "The committee sent out letters in August of 1999 to see who was interested," Eilers says. "We got about 100 replies back." The committee then invited the interested players to an alumni touch­football game before the Blue and Gold 
game last spring. This game was organized to determine who was in good enough shape to play. From there, the players and coaches selected about 50 players to par­ticipate. 
Led by current defensive coordinator Greg Mattison and a group of former assistant coaches that included Skip Holtz, the team's members were alumni both young and old. "We had people from Pat Steenberge, who graduated in '78, to a couple of guys who graduated last year," Riehle says. "There was about a 20-year spread between the players." 
Once in Germany, the Irish began a week of hard work. "We practiced for four days before the game," Eilers says. Although they worked hard, the alumni team found time to do more than just play football. On the Fourth of July, the team enjoyed an . r evening boat trip through the Hamburg ca­nals. "They had fireworks just forus," Riehle recalls, in addition to noisemakers and con­fetti. Other activities included a castle tour and a viewing of the musical Buddy Holly, with songs in English and dialogue in Ger­man. "I've been to the Cotton, Fiesta and Orange bowls," Eilers says, "and the week itself, the way they prepared it, was as good as any bowl experience." 
With all the merriment, how seriously did these 50 players, some of whom had not played football in 20 years, take this exhibi­tion game? According to Eilers, feelings about the game were intense. "No one wants to lose," he says. "It's a full-contact football game. It has to be taken seriously or some­one will get injured." 
Riehle offers another perspective: "I put up a sign on Saturday that read, '2 p.m. team Mass.' Here at Notre Dame, every single player has to go to the Mass before all the football games. This time, no one forced anybody to go. Every single player went to the Mass. I think they took the game very seriously." 
Many players considered the game a once­in-a-lifetime opportunity to relive the past and put on a Notre Dame uniform one more time. "It was a surreal experience," Eilers says. "I played professionally for six years after Notre Dame, but some people hadn't put on the equipment since graduation. It was like we had stepped into a time ma­chine." 
According to Riehle, being in the locker room was an emotional experience for many of the men. "Before every game, I always say a Hail Mary in the locker room before they go out onto the field," Riehle remembers. "I looked up and halfofthem were crying like babies. Just because they put on their helmet once more ... you can say all you want about the Notre Dame mystique, but it was amazing. It really was." 
The game, which was held in Volkspark Stadium, attracted approximately 20,000 fans, the largest-ever turnout for a Charity Bowl event according to Riehle. Players soon found out that football in Germany is a bit different than football in the United States. Although the rules are almost iden­tical -in Gennany, there are 12-minute quarters instead of the usual 15-minute quarters -the atmosphere was unlike any­thing the players had experienced before. For instance, over 400 cheerleaders sur­rounded the field -more than one would find at a typical college game. 
Luckily, the Irish had someone on their side as well. Joining the alumni team in Germany was Leprechaun Mike Brown. "There were cheer squads from all over the city at the game, from high schools and local cheer clubs," says Brown. "I went from squad to squad and joined in their dances and cheers." 
"He was fantastic," Riehle says. "The German fans really liked him." 
In addition to the noise provided by the hundreds of German cheerleaders, the stadium's loudspeakers played recorded music throughout the game. This combina­tion, along with the 20,000 boisterous fans, caused the players some difficulty in hear­ing the calls. "The fans were very rowdy," Eilers recalls. "The difference between Notre Dame fans and German fans is that German fans cheered as loud for us as they did their own team." 
Despite these difficulties, the alumni foot­ball team managed to keep the game close. The Irish missed two field goals early in the game, but compensated later with two touchdowns, giving Notre Dame a 14-10 lead late in the fourth quarter. But the Blue Devils refused to roll over. Driving to the Irish seven-yard line, Hamburg threatened to score with 0.9 seconds left on the clock. As time expired, a diving interception in the end zone by defensive back Ivory Covington saved the game for the Irish. 
"I thought we had you guys," Blue Devil defensive end Tuli Mateialona said in a joint press conference after the game. "It must have been the luck ofthe Irish." 
Maybe Mateialona didn't realize it was heart, not luck, that drove this Irish team. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 


"It all starts with a faith and belief." 
-former Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz 
"There is only one Notre Dame, and I think we enjoy a wonderful point ofdiffer­ence as it relates to spirituality, mystique, lore, magic, ifyou will." 
-Athletic Director Kevin White 
"Our quarterback had completed three passes up to that point. I don't think any magic was going to suddenly come down 
from the sky." -Head Coach Bob Davie on letting 
time run out against Ne5raska 
Fortune's Mantle Cloaks Thee 
The Gipp has a few bones to pick. From his perch in the stadium, the Gipp has no­ticed that during the last two games, oppos­ing team fans were sitting in the first row of those gold seats -the ones that go to "friends" ofthe university and are left empty at the first sign of rain or cold. Now, the Gipp wonders: were these Husker and Boiler fans friends ofthe university, or did some of our big donors sell out? Either way, Notre Dame gets its money, and the students get pushed back 20 rows. 
To be fair, the Gipp knows that plenty of students sold out, too. What the Gipp doesn't understand is how the normally eagle-eyed ushers missed the bright red shirts among the sea of green in the student section. Nqt only that, but some Husker fans managed to bring fully inflated balloons into the sta­dium, The last time the Gipp tried to sneak a friend into the student section or bring a bag ofmarshmallows into the stadium, the 
24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 

ushers gave him a tour of the stadium's holding cell. 
Fisher Man's Catch 

The Gipp turns now to another foiler of fun at Notre Dame: parietals. One Fisher resident decided to brave the wrath of 

ResLife and let a female friend stay over. Just when it seemed th~t he and his lady friend would get away with their grave violation ofdu Lac, disaster struck: the fire alarmwentoff. The Gipp lets his tipster pick up the tale: 
As 180 guys groggily stumbled outside into the chilly morning, it was noticed by several that a female appeared to be shuf­fling right along side ofus. She was cleverly concealed by pajama pants (a girl in pa­jama pants, who would have thunk it?), a Fisher T-shirt and ND hat, but we saw through the camouflage. 
Fortunately for the couple, the Fisher Hall staffmust have taken lessons from the stadium ushers: 
Fisher's crack hall stafffailed to notice her; it must have been the disguise. 
Here's the part ofthe story the Gipp really likes. After the fire alarm subsided, the girl went back into the dorm and finished offher stay. Says our tipster: 
A consensus amongst my fellow dormmates was quickly reached: being rudely woken by the screeching ofa false fire alarm was bad, but our mood was improved when we realized that one ofour fellow Fishermen was gettin ' some on a Tuesday night. 
Boo-yah! 
Shoes, Please 

The Gipp has an admission to make: he 
goofed. Last issue's fairytale about the boy 
with no shoes didn't have such a happy 
ending. In fact, the boy never found his 
shoes. So, listen up! The Gipp needs your 
help. Ifyou live in Castle Point and you've 
got a pair ofmysterious shoes from a mys­
terious stranger, e-mail the Gipp. He'll re­
unite shoes with owner. 
If only th~ boy had been in the Hammes 
bookstore, he might have encountered the 
strange man whom our next tipster met. 
While browsing through the used books ­
a whole $2 cheaper than the new ones! -a 
man approached our tipster and said, "Nice 
shoes ... Chuck Taylor size 11?" Flabber­
gasted by the man's keen eye for foot size, 
our tipster nodded. "I've got a pair ofthose 
out in my car ... you can have them if you 
want them," the man continued. For some 
reason -the Gipp's not sure why -our 
tipster followed the man out to the parking 
lot. Sure enough, the man popped open his 
trunk and revealed boxes upon boxes of 
shoes. Digging around for the promised 
pair, he produced some size-I I Chuck 
Taylors and presented them as a gift. Butthe 
manhadmore to offer. He produced another 
pair of size-I I shoes, this time from the 
Gap. This is where our tipster drew the line. 
He grabbed the Taylors, left the Gap shoes 
and headed home a happy man. 
Well, that's it for the Gipp this edition. The Gipp needs tips, so take the time to show him some love and e-mail him at gipper.l@nd.edu. D 
Rock on, roll on! 
WVFI looks to bring new sounds to Notre Dame with Irishpalooza 
HOPEFEHER AND JENNIFERMORGAN AND CARRIESWEENEY 
Last spring, when the newly selected 2000-20001 WVFI staff decided to organize the first-ever Irishpalooza, they knew they had a long road ahead of them. "There's been a ton of planning," says Danny Goodwin, assistant manager of the student-run radio station. "There had to be contracts filled out for each of the bands, we had to get all the spots reserved, and, for a couple ofthe bands, we had to go through their booking agencies. We started plan­ning it last year,·as soon as the new board was elected." The staff relied on its connections, word­of-mouth and a lot of phone calls over the summer to pull the show together. The hard work will pay off on September 30, when four bands and a DJ will perform near Stonehenge from 5 p.m. until midnight. "Basically, we just wanted to create a music show or music extravaganza just to let people know, and put it in people's face, that there is college music out there," Goodwin says. "Just because people haven't heard of it doesn't mean they won't like it. We want to . promote independent-label bands. These are people you don't hear on the radio but who are equally-ifnot more -talented [than the bands that get air time]." The show will feature five groups from locations ranging from Chicago to New York. "Some of these bands are pretty big names irrindie rock," Goodwin says. "We wanted to go a level. above just any old college band." The first band, Clark, hails from South Bend. Itfeatures one ofNotre Dame's own: freshman bass player Patrick Bayliss. Gui­tarist Mike Beaton ofSouth Bend and drum­mer Ryan Partridge of Logansport, Ind. complete the trio. "Our music has its roots from punk, but it is stripped down and more emo­tional," Bayliss says. "It is not always loud; it can be soft and mellow at one moment, and the next moment it can ex­plode in your face." 
The band's lack of a lead vocalist also distinguishes it from other groups. "We all do vocals," Bayliss says. "A lot of our stuff is instrumental, but when we sing, we sing all at once, but different parts. It can be overwhelming for an audience, 
IRISI-IPALOOZA , September 30, 2000. 5p;riL to :, midnight .. •• 

Clai'K'.:'""'-_South Bend 


The Retreads:-Muricie; -Ind:~-' --•· 
.· ; . :'-_.· .' 
·. . 

Stillwell-,:,-: Chicago
. . 

Wafflehouse -~-Detroit DJ·guantum ~ NewYorl<_ .. 

because one ofus will start to sing a line, and then another will sing something dif­ferent, and then another will start to sing back-up, but we are telling a story at the same time." 
The second band, The Retreads, origi­nated in Muncie, Ind. It includes lead gui­tarist and vocalist Mike Schull, bassist Scott Limbird and drummer Matt Amos. Junior Lindsay Updike, a friend of the band, is responsible for bringing The Retreads to the festival. She says that the boys first per­formed at local shows during high school. "Mike's dad sold T-shirts and stickers, and the whole thing sort of took off," Updike says. 
In addition to recording and copyrighting its own music, the band has been recording for over two years with Massachusetts-based Skullduggery Records. The band has re­leased two albums, including 1998 's Dumb Kids. 
Stillwell, an indie-rock band from Chi­cago, also has experience in the recording world. The boys ofthe band -vocalist and guitarist Brian Henry, guitarist Trent Reushow, bassist Justin Wexler and drum­merTheo Katsaounis-are currently signed with Rebound Records. They previously produced a number ofcompilation CDs and self-released records, including On the Eye ofChange, With No Reply and Under the El Tracks. 
Wafflehouse, a band with Michiganroots, will also take the stage at Irishpalooza. These five members from Detroit-vocal­ist and bassist Sean Clancy, guitarist and backup vocalist Nolan Simon, vocalist Darin Fiorelli, guitarist and vocalist Mike Maweski and drummer Ryan Clancy -call their music "fraggle rock," a term they created in an effort to "avoid being labeled," accord­ing to WVFI News Director Jon Alvarez. "Their music reflects a lot of indie influ­ences, but basically they just go crazy," Alvarez says. 
Finally, DJ Quantum, the only non­band act to be featured at Irishpalooza, will add some East-Coast talent to the performance. This well-known New York City DJ covers numerous raves and hip­hop shows and can often be found hang­ing out with the likes of Fat Boy Slim, A Tribe Called Quest, Chemical Brothers, Dr. Dre and Bjork. 
"He spins a wide variety of music ­anything from hip-hop to trance to house to jungle," Alvarez says. 
Goodwin is confident that the show will be a success. "We're looking to make this an annual event," he says. "In five years, I would say we want to have multiple spon­sors. We really want to expose Notre Dame students to indie-rock bands." 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

J'./4~ 
·• '.l 
. .,1 
\ ,. 
;l 

...... ' 
'?
·.J 
~ 
, , . ·-.,., . _-.. ,. ~·-.4 ~~ ..:---:.,::·,.-. ' .. -· . 
-~-­


matchbox 
T W E N T V 
GOES ,TO -COLLEGE 
In this exclusive interview, guitarist Adam Gaynor tells Scholastic about overly enthusi­astic fan Web sites, bad interviews and life at the top of the charts. 


26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


_Lalways.. ha.d.aspJratians.ta_fie_a._singer_aad_s_aagwriter,__..___............ ----·---·-·· 
and it took eight years for it to happen 
CARRIESWEENEY 
The first thing Matchbox Twenty gui­tarist Adam Gaynor wants to make quite clear is that he's a Notre Dame fan. Sort of. "Let me start offby saying that although I am a Miami man, I'm always happy when a No. 1 team gets knocked down, so we were definitely behind you guys against Nebraska," he says. Gaynor and the rest of the band -singer Rob Thomas, guitarist Kyle Cook, bassist Brian Yale and drummer Paul Doucette ­will have a chance to further prove their Irish loyalty on Monday, October 2, when they perform at the Joyce Center. The concert is part oftheir college tour, which also includes stops at Penn State and the universities of Florida, Wisconsin and Iowa, among others. "We're doing the college tour as some­thing fun for us," Gaynor says. "We hit a lot ofmajor cities during earlier tours, and 'a lot of times there's not enough seating for all the fans. Colleges are great for us because the people who really want to see you get to be there. There's nothing bet­ter." The band couldn't be doing much better these days, either, after humble beginnings in Orlando during the early '90s. Evolving from the band.Tabitha's Secret, which Tho­mas started in 1993, the group produced its first album, Yourselfor Someone Like You, in the faJl ofl996. The CD went platinum 10 times, and Gaynor says his involvement was a dream come true. "I always had aspirations to. be a singer and songwriter, and ittook eight years for it to happen," he says, explaining how he left his job at Miami's Criteria Recording Stu­dios to join the band. "I have a big mouth, and I just told everyone about myself -I wanted to do it that badly. Eventually, our producer called me up and asked me to au.dition with Rob, Paul and Brian, and things started there." 
After a hectic debut tour, the band went in different directions. Thomas collaborated with Carlos Santana to produce "Smooth," a song that earned him three Grammys last year. But he finally needed some downtime after those whirlwind months, so he re­treated to Atlanta with the rest ofthe band to write songs for their sophomore album. 
They released Mad Season last May, which includes "Bent," the group's first chart-topping single. 
"Our new album is more diverse than our first, and the arrangements are more intri­cate," Gaynor says. "It's a great opportunity when you get to put together an album with your buddies, after you've done 600 shows together. We'd done, like, three shows to­gether before the first one. But even though we were justthrown in there the first time, it worked out great, and we're proud ofit. This time, though, we know our capabilities and limitations, and I think everyone put their own signature all over this one." 
The band is still dealing with its meteoric rise to fame and all the surreal situations that accompany it. For example, there are count­less Web sites devoted to the group, some offering such intriguing insights as "Adam really loves apple juice and spaghetti," and, "Adam's eyes are brown, but sometimes hazel." One site even has an alphabetical list ofreasons to love Adam. 
·· "It'sjust funny," Gaynor says. "I saw that site with the apple juice comments-there's also a picture ofme with my shirt offthere. I'm thinking, 'When the hell did I perform with my shirt off?' And then I finally re­membered it was this really hot day in Miami, during a sound check or something -not even the actual concert. And that was the last time I ever did that. But it's really nice -a little awkward,· but flattering. I write those girls [who run the site] once or twice a year, and I met them when they came with their families to a show in D.C. They devote a lot of time to it." 
V 
V 

The band is also learning the downsides of fame -namely, the ever-present de­mands of the media. "I'm sick, and I've been doing all these interviews with no voice," Gaynor says. "I'm getting my steak knife out soon. The last lady I talked to, it was like Pat [ from Saturday Night Live] ­you know, is she a man, is she a woman? The whole time we talked, I know she had no idea what I was talking about. And then, finally, shewaslike, 'UsuallyI'mnotamusicwriter.' And so that explains that." 
Bad interviews aside, Matchbox Twenty's rise to the top ofthe charts has been sweet. It was one ofthe few groups that broke out ofthe pack ofalternative bands that emerged in the early '90s, and, judging by critics' praise of Mad Season, it will be hanging around for awhile. The band members are looking forward to a successful college tour before heading to Australia, where the band is extremely popular. 
The Jayhawks, a talented alternative­country-rock group, will open for Match­box Twenty during the first halfofthe tour. Formed in 1985 in Minneapolis, the group has produced six albums, including 1992's Hollywood Town Hall, which was named to Rolling Stone's list of greatest rock-and­roll albums of the '90s. The band is a favorite ofThomas'-in fact, when he was forming Tabitha's Secret in 1993, he placed an advertisement in a newspaper for a drum­mer who was into the Jayhawks, among other bands. 
Gaynor is eager to start the college tour and particularly excited about his first trip to South Bend. He promises to behave like a gentleman despite any lingering biases from his Miami days. 
"Come check out the show and have a good time,"hesuggests. "We'llhaveadayofpeace between the Hurricanes and Fighting Irish. I'll leave all my weapons behind-they can search me. 
"Really, we can do it." D 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 




GROOVY Junior Luke Burke lays 

Jl down a bass line for 
;. 
Seven Pounds of Groove. 

LUCKY SEVEN 
Seven Pounds ofGroove brings classic and jam rock to South Bend 
KARAZUARO 
All right guys, let's do some blues rifts inB, watch me for the changes, and, uh, try and keep up, OK?" Alan Maginn, the frontman ofSeven Pounds of Groove, utters into his mike on Benchwarmer's beer-bannered stage. Be­fore the length of the phrase has crackled through the speakers, the quiet crowd is roused. Chairs squeak like it's the last day of school, barstools are abandoned and· half­filled glasses left behind as knowing fans make a beeline for the dance floor. Elbows flailing, hips twisting, they're all shimmy­ing '60s-style to a fast and hard version of "Johnny B. Goode." Maginn is playing the guitar behind his head. Those attending their first Seven Pounds of Groove gig sit mystified, feeling as if they' dmissed a cue; After the show;Maginn explains that the song intro is borrowed from a line Michael J. Fox's character says in Back to the Future just before his band launches into a similarly raucous rendition ofthe Chuck Berry classic. "Johnny B. Goode" is the only rock-and­roll oldie in the band's rather eclectic set. The four band members, all from Sorin Hall, cite a wide range ofinfluences. Drum­mer Chris Corr mentions jazz, rock and jam bands, and rhythm guitarist Mark Miller adds classic rock to the list. Luke Burke, the bassist, talks about his admiration for bands like Led Zeppelin, Van Halen, Phish and the Allman Brothers. Maginn, who shows off his classical piano training during musical 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

interludes of eerie carnival music on the keyboard, points out that most ofthe songs they cover are blues-based. "Right now we're a cover who is trying to get some of their own songs out there," Maginn says. 
All the Seven Pounds ofGroove originals ­have a marked, classic-rock-jam band feel, and their genre-spanning covers take on the same sound. Their repertoire includes Weezer's "Say It Ain't So," the Black Crowes' "Hard to Handle," Phish' s "ChalkdustTorture," Santana's "Oye Como Va," a few Led Zeppelin tunes and even a little Jackson Five. Seven Pounds also plays a few Radiohead songs, including a poppy, upbeat version of"The Bends" that has the townies on the other side ofthe bar boogying with their pool sticks. Radiohead purists should be forewarned that this version is probably a far cry from what Thom Yorke had in mind when he penned the lyrics, but it's interesting to hear the song devoid ofall bleakness. ThehighlightoftheBenchwarmer's show was their cover of Maynard Ferguson's "Chameleon," played with the help of Kevin Bruce, a fiiend ofthe band who lent a second bass tohelpcreatethemostfinely layered and polished number ofthe evening. 
Although Seven Pounds of Groove has made only a few appearances at local bars this semester, they certainly are not rookies on the club circuit. In fact, before they started playing together out at school, they went on a "test-run tour" to get a little practice playing in front ofcrowds ofstrang­ers before they had to play in front ofcrowds ofpeople they knew. "Ifwe were going to screw up, we'drather do it on other people's campuses," Maginn explains. The band hit college bars at St. Bonaventure, Boston University and Valapraiso, among others. Maginn, always quick with the movie refer­ences, relates their Valapraiso show to the scene in The Blues Brothers where Jake and Elwood get a gig at Bob's Country Bunker, only to discover that it's a country and western nightspot. "It was punk night when we played at Valapraiso," Maginn says. "That was an interesting experience." 
Still, even with tour experience under their belts, a solid repertoire ofcovers and a few original songs as well, Seven Pounds of Groove still has a few hurdles to jump. "We're finding out how hard it is to get a fan base," Maginn says. "The majority ofpeople that go to our shows are people we know." This was clear at the Benchwarmer's show when Maginn shouted to the crowd, "Hey, Donahey, this one's for you," and the crowd shouted back, "He's in the bathroom, man." 
"Clubs want you to play on nights that they're dead so that you can drag people there,but our friends have other stuff to do than see us." Maginn adds, "we have to get 
. 
enough songs together so that ifpeople do come to have something different to give them eac~ time. "_The band has yet to put out a recording, but Maginn says, "We want to get a non-studio album out pretty soon." D 
For updated show information and to learn more about the band, see the Seven Pou_nds ofGroove Web site atwww.nd.edu/ ~ccorr. 


. SECTION SUPERHERO 

Interactive 00B: Choose your own R.A. Adventure 
·Can you help'Tom Herman maintain order in Zahm Hall? 

,o JO 

r>Quiet hours resume, but some­
Not a llama in sight, 
but a horde of<• ., Zahmbies is whooping and roaring in support 
1 ofa hallway wrestling I match. Tom says: :f "Breakitup, guys. It's1, quiet hours." 
OR "Beware the· Mighty Hermanator!" and} 
promptly taps into the fight.  .  : I I  
I  .  
t  


··After housing both wrestlers and dis­persing the crowd, Tom notices a stench in the a,ir, thanks to the piles of sweat­stained clothes that have been left out­
., side each doorway. Tom should: kick. the clothes into their respective rooms, leaving the hallway neat and clean. 
OR collect the clothes to sell at an upcom­ing R.A. auction. 
body is playing his music a tad too loudly. Tom says, "Hey man, turn it down a notch." 
OR turns off the stereo, out his guitar and a soothe the angry L Bizkit lover with t calming sounds of Peter, Paul & Mary's "Puff the 
•

Magic Dragon." 
Tom Herman of section 1B in Zahm Hall knows that the powers ofan R.A. can be used for either good or evil. See ifyou have what it takes to m_ake the snap decisions necessary to save his section from mayhem. 
Hey, what's that sound? Barnyard animals down the hall? Tom decides to: see what's causing the commotion -it wouldn't { be the first time somebo_dy hauled a sheep into Zahm. 
OR }

keep on watching The Simpsons. 
After The Simpsons, Tom goes to sleep ~ 
. ,._.,,,. 
on his couch. At 3 a.m., a freshman \ ~ wakes him, complaining that somebody ' just turned on a vacuum in his room and ran away. Tom says, "That's what we call a Phantom Maid," and: sings the kid to sleep with a soft rendi­tion of Kermit the Frog's "Rainbow 
OR ends the kid back to his room and waits 
. \
10 mmutes before he goes down and " sets offtlie vacuum again. 
Later in the evening, freshmen throw a party that overflows into the hall. Tom ses his trusty laser pointer 
. 
adied party rooms. OR 

blind theunrulyunder­classmen by pointing it into their beady 
little eyes. 
interrupts Tom's fa­

r •>vorite television pro­gram because he is locked out ofhis room and wearing only his birthday suit. Tom says: "The keys are in the 
fridge, right in the egg } rack." Tom is inclined to ignore nudity when he sees it. 

1 
OR "Take your hairy ass
..J 
to the fourth floor and 

tell Vern Walker to let -{, youin." 
by Kara Zuaro 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 



That's Amore 
Romantic approaches differ from Rome to Dome 
KRISTINKRAMER
Why won't you kiss me? Why? Why? I don't understand!" I looked across the train compart­
ment to see my friend, a blue-eyed Ameri­can girl ifthere ever was one, trying to fend off the advances of a young Italian male. Even though Leonardo had met us only 30 minutes before, he was ready for some ac­tion -but my friend wasn't, despite his fetching appearance in tight Adidas pants. We tried to explain to him that Americans don't kiss people they have just met, much less while on public transportation systems, but Leonardo didn't understand. He thought she was attrac­

i tive, and he was Italian, so
,I 
I any female on the planet had tofindhimattractive-why couldn't they go ahead and· get it on? 
This incident occurred last semester when I was study­ing in Rome. Luckily, I am nowbackatNotreDame, so 

,
,, things like that don't hap­
J pen to me anymore. Ever. In fact, judging from the word I on the street, my overall de­
I sirability as a female has gone down a whole lot, and that's really ... great. 
Unfortunately, dance sea­son has arrived, and with all the worry about finding a date, I find myself missing the simplicity ofltalian love. Over there, you didn't have to worry about whether you and a guy were just "friends" or "more than friends" or any other nebulous relationship state. In Italy, you could be pretty sure that guys just wanted one thing: you. As an Italian friend told a guy in the program, "I have sex with the girls now. When I am older and unable to have sex, then I will talk to them." 


StJre, not all Italian males are like this, but they are generally a little more aggressive, as evidenced by our friend Leonardo. It's an interesting contrast to life under the Dome, 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

because while I don't know many people here who'd hook up on a train with their assigned seating buddy, I definitely know people who hook up at dances. I have to ask myself, "What's the difference?" Sure, the setting might be a little more intimate, the lights a little dimmer, but do you know the person you're kissing any better? The end result is the same, right? 
On one hand you have the Italians, who are pretty up-front about their feelings. They don't fear "the approach," they don't have a 

problem staring at you, and they're obvi­ously not ashamed ofwhat they've got since they wear those skin-tight pants all the time. They send you subliminal messages saying, "Here I am. Take me now. I want you. I am Italian and I wear tight pants." 
And then, of course, you have the South Bend dating scene, where Notre Dame stu­dents engage in highly complex rituals to tell someone the big news that .-.. you like them. These "rituals" can be performed through the aforementioned dances, in­formed friends, covert services such as that handy ndtoday.com or even what some like to call "liquid courage." But most of the time, students here hide behind states of noncommittal and baggy Gap jeans, except for those "special" times when some girls break out their black booty pants for a night on the town. Or on the townies -which­ever you prefer. 
So it seems that if we're looking for a direct, hands-on approach to the opposite sex, we won't find it here in South Bend, or many other places in America. Except maybe in New York, because Sarah Jessica Parker and her Sex and the City friends live there. 
I know that I should probably extol the virtues ofthe foreign way oflife and exhort my comrades and compatriots to take a more direct approach to love and the oppo­site sex·. But I'm a ridiculous American, and I can't. I have an inherent preference for the messed-up way in which we deal with each other. I would be freaked out if someone came up to me in the dining hall and asked me out -much simpler to just go through every person I know at the school first. Nor ·would I know what it's like to have a guy call me and not have to wonder what his "true" motivation for the call was. (There are those who would say that I wouldn't know what it's like to have a guy call me for non-homework-related reasons. But let's forget that for right now.) There were a lot ofthings I liked about Europe, but when it comes to relationships, I'm Blue-and-Gold all the way. 
One night, months ago in Rome, my friend Emily and I were chatting about the intrica­cies of cultural diversity while eating din­ner. 
"Kristin," Emily said, "what is the one thing you're looking forward to about re­turning to the United States?" 
"Well, it's hard to say,"Ireplied. "I mean, there are some superior aspects of Ameri­can culture. Americans on the whole are more generous, often more polite, and they volunte.er more." 
"Yes, but what are you really looking forward to?" Emily asked. "What do you miss?" 
"Oh. Seeing guys who aren't wearing skin-tight pants. Dude, those things make me uncomfortable. Do you want to get des­sert?" D 

...... 
1 
;' .·,.. ,
CJ 

• . . ¦. )<.·•··•··•· 
-'-:, . .•.·· ct1.< .as1 
•.·· .. ···>.·<·"-~ / 

..... ••. . 21 ,septem6er29ou-< ·. 
I imagine that the mos'.;/mportant thing on s1· me. ofyour agendas for the next two weeks is findjng dates for a multitud~fhall dances. Coming Distractions can giv'.1)'o~ some ideas.on how fp~1eliver the "_W"oul~ you um, er, so there's thrs thmg at my dorm and I'm sure you're mcred1bly 
I 

busy but ..." question a little more gracefully. Consider wooing while keeping in mind some of the characters and historical figures connected with the upcoming lectures, plays and films. Just make sure you get it right. You wouldn't want to end up saying any ofthe following: 
William Shakespeare "Shall I compare thee to my last SYR date? (Good Night Desdemona, Thou art, um, less ugly and more likely to Good Morning Juliet) sleep with me." 
"Well, yeah, I've got some issues with my 
Charles Foster Kane childhood, but you still wanna go with me, 
(Citizen Kane) 

right? What, are you crazy or something? I own a newspaper! I live in a castle! I'm a millionaire!" 
The Pope "So the only thing is we've got to ride (The Papacy in a Time of there in my little bulletproof car. Oh, come Crisis: Pope Pius XII and on! I'll let you wear my mitre!" World War II) 
-Cristin Fenzel 

• 
Thu 21 through Sun 24 Men's Tennis: ND/Tom Fallon Invitational, All Day, Cominey Courts. 

• 
Thu 21 Volleyball: ND vs. Loyola Marymount, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center Arena:. 

• 
Fri 22 Cross Country: National Catholic Invitational, 4:00 and 5:00 PM, Burke Memorial Golf Course. 

• 
Fri 22 Volleyball: ND vs. Wyoming, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center Arena. ~ Fri 22 Soccer: ND men vs. Seton Hall, 7:30 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sat 23 Volleyball: ND vs. Colorado State, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center Arena. 


lectures 

• Thu 21 "Proust's Reinvention ofthe Novel," 
4:30 PM, Annenburg Auditorium. 
• 
Sat 23 "The Papacy in a Time of Crisis: Pope Pius XII and World War II," 9:00 AM, Audito­rium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Thu 28 "Ruling against the Rulers: Court­Executive Relations in Argentina,"4:00 PM, Hesburgh Center, Room C-103. 

• 
Thu 28 "Science as Art and Imagery," 4:00 PM, 20th Century Gallery, Snite. 

• 
Tue 03 Oct Members of the Commitee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women: "When Sleeping Women Awake," 7:30 PM, Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library. 


cinema 

• Fri 22 and Sat 23 Time Regained, 6:30 PM and 
9:30 PM, Snite. 
• Mon 25 The Conversation, 7:00 PM, Snite. 
• 
Tue 26 Latin American Film Series: La ley de Herodes (The Law ofHerod), 7:00 PM, Auditorim, Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Fri 29 and Sat 30 Timecode, 8:00 PM and 10:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 02 Oct Citizen Kane, 7:00 PM, Snite. 


the arts 

• 
Thurs 28 Los Angeles Guitar Quartet, 8:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Sun 01 Oct Ying Quartet, 2:00 PM, Annenburg Auditorium. 

• 
Wed 04 Good Night Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet), two Shakespearean tragedies woven into a light-hearted comedy, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 


. sports 

• 
Sun 24 Soccer: ND men vs. Connecticut, 1 :00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sun 24 Soccer: ND women vs. Pittsburgh, 3:00 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Fri 29 Soccer: ND men vs. Pittsburgh, 7:30 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Fri 29 Soccer: ND women vs. Seton Hall, 5:30 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Fri 29 Volleyball: ND vs. Villanova, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center Arena. 

• 
Sat 30 Domer Run 2000, 11 :00 AM, Stepan Center, sign-up begins at 10:45 AM. 



by Warren White 

Next thing you know you are thrust onto the next straight as if you had been shot out of the 
proverbial cannon 
Professional driver Warren White is a veteran ofthe Formula Continental series. He has driven midgets and has been with the Irish Racing Team since 1998. 

Look up to see ahead ... that's what you do at WinchesterMotor Speedway. With 30-degree banking, not looking up becomes somewhat short-sighted. I really didn'tnotice how far backyou tilt your head until I got in the race and was straining to see where Larry Crosser in the Bowling Green State car was going to end up after shortening his car a foot or so against the fourth turn wall ... but that's getting ahead of the story .... We should start from the beginning. The weekend of July 29 and 30, I drove the University of Notre Dame Formula Lightning (electric) car at Winches­ter Motor Speedway, the world's fastest half-mile track. Winchester is an awesome facility. As you barrel down to turnone, youprepare yourselfto drive into what looks like a wall. You keep reminding the self-preservation side ofyour brain that it really is a curve and that you will come out on the back straight ... ifeverything holds together. Halfway through the corner, the car slams against the track as the banking comes into play. Next thing you know you are thrust onto the next straight as ifyou had been shot out ofthe proverbial cannon. The race: At the start ofthe race, we took the lead and held it for about a lap and a half. The first car to pass was Ohio State University. Nextbywas Indiana University/Purdue Uni­versity Indianapolis, driven by Chris Schultz. He stayed there for a lap or two and then faded, and we re-passed him only to be passed by the Bowling Green State University car, driven by Larry Crosser. Then we had a race. Larry could not pull away. I was begin­ning to see the nose ofthe Oklahoma University car, driven by Indy-500 veteran Billy Roe, and we spent about four laps having a lot of fun dicing for the position. About the sixth or seventh lap, Billy came up the inside again, I saw the West Virginia car low on the inside, about to be lapped, and squeezed my line down. Billy had to make a choice: try to go lower still and pass West Virginia onthe flat part ofthe corner (probably a big crash), hit West Virginia( a bigger crash) or backoffand wait to play again. Billy backed off. I was in third, and Larry in BGSU was now six or sevencarlengths ahead as the race withBillyhadcost me some ground. The breathing room came in a different form, however. The very next lap, entering turn three, I looked up to see around the corner and got a glimpse ofwhat I thought initially was barbeque smoke. I quickly realized that it was tire smoke. I strained to look up even more to see farther ahead. Got to the middle ofthe corner, the g-forces slammed the car into the banking, the top ofmy helmet banged offthe head rest, and there was Larry Cros~er com­pressing the rear of the BGSU car against the turn four wall. Larrybounced offthe wall and backdown the track, crossing the lane I expected to be in at .the time, so we avoided him -by how much I do not know, because I was afraid to look, and control was still being negotiated between me, the car and the laws ofphysics. I caught my breath ... and realized we would now be in second place. I hoped· we could hang on at least to the pit stop: At the re-start we did indeed. Unfortunately, Billy Roe and Chris Schultz were also able to latch onto us; For two or three laps we had lots offun. At one point we were three wide through turns one arid two -with me on the inside and very nervous. 
Pit Stop: The initial part of the stop went surpris­ingly well. Stopped on the marks, switches turned off, sidepod doors go up and I felt the batteries leave the vehicle, I felt the left side batteries slide in with some effort, the right side batteries go in, left sidepod door goes down, right sidepod door ... remains up. I feel effort being applied to the right, I hear words of frustration and encouragement from young men and women obviously under great strain ... then I see a full sizedknock-o-meter ( a precision instrument com­monly known as a sledgehammer) being handed across the front of the car . . . what could they ... BANG! BANG! BANG! I could feel the force of blows right through the frame. They tell me to power it up, all connections are in place . . . glance at the scoring sign to see the leaders working Lap 21 ... BANG! BANG! BANG! Sidepod door down, first gear already selected, I leave the pits wondering what will happen, as I turn onto the apron and accelerate around turn two picking up speed .... 
There is a very competitive feel to the team. The students did not give up and actually.beat the thing into submission -that Fighting Irish spirit I suspect. They have good leadership and a willingness to work; add a little orgaajzation and they are going to be right there beating on Ohio State's door. 
In a full-blown midwestern downpour, I left the fastest half-mile in the world with everything ahead looking up.. D 
The abqve article was edited by members of the Irish Racing Team. 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



Acousticafe 

: live music in LaFun . . Thurs. 9 -midnight . 
. The Wizard ·ofOz 
with Pink Floyd"s Dark Side ofthe Moon playing. comes complete with guidebook so you can follow along with all the eerie similarities. 
Road Trip 
movies in 101 and 155 DeBartolo both only$2 OJT Thurs. at 10:30 Fri. & Sat. at 8 and 
10:30 

* 
i 
r 
i 




wvfi presents... 
s 
h 
p & & 
a 
1 
0 ~
0 
z 
a . ~· 
2 0 0 
o. StPltM6t~ ]0, ]000 
* FEATURING: 
i North Quad
Clark 
i 
s 
r 
5p.m. -12 a.m. 
p 
h Stillwell
a 
I Free Food!
0 Waffle house 
z 
0 Free Entertainment! 
a Free Stuff! 
2 
0 The Retreads 
0 
0 * DJ Quantum wvfi.nd.edu 









