menthol fresh rich tobacco taste modem filter, too
As refreshing as the trickle of water down a mossy rock is the taste of a Salem. For through its pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest, cleanest taste in cigarettes. Rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness. Smoke refreshed, pack after pack. Get Salem by the carton!
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
OuCmpBm&o,
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.”)
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH
Today begins my fifth year of writing this column, and what an eventful five years it has been! What things have these old eyes not seen! What great discoveries have rocked the world—the anti-proton, for instance, and the anti-neutron, and high-low split, and Brigitte Bardot!
In these five years it has also been discovered that American smokers like two kinds of cigarettes—filter and non-filter. The Philip Morris Company makes both kinds. I mention the Philip Morris Company because they pay me to mention the Philip Morris Company. They sponsor this column. I write it and then they give me money. Then I take the money and pay my grocer, my butcher, my gardener, and my four madrigal singers. In this way full employment is maintained and w7e avoid a repetition of the Panic of 1873 w’hen bread riots killed over 98 million people in Muncie, Indiana, and millions of others were reduced to ghost-writing Ph. D. theses to keep body and soul together.
But enough of gloom. Let us get back to cheerful subjects, like the products of the Philip Morris Company. For those of you who wish filter cigarettes there is Marlboro, w’hich now, more than ever, gives you a lot to like—a brand new7 improved filter and a wonderful flavor that comes breezing right through. For those of you w7ho w’ish non-filter cigarettes, there is Philip Morris, a mild natural blend, flavorful, fresh, and thoroughly agreeable. For those of you who can’t decide
between filters or non-filters but have an affinity for packages, I should like to point out that both Marlboro and Philip Morris come in both the crushproof Flip-Top Box and the good old-fashioned Soft Pack, and you will surely wTant several of each for your collection.
Speaking for myself, I smoke both Marl
boro and Philip Morris in both packs. What I do is make kind of a fun thing out of it. In my bedroom I have four signs, one on each wall, which say in turn: '’Philip Morris—Soft Pack,” "Philip Morris— Flip-Top,” "Marlboro—Soft Pack” and "Marlboro—Flip-Top.” When I get up in the morning, I put on a blindfold and then my faithful cat Rover spins me around six times and then, with many a laugh and cheer, I walk forward with my finger outstretched and the first sign I touch is the cigarette I smoke that day!
As you can imagine, this little game has been a great source of merriment to Rover and me, except for one untow’ard incident one morning. I was stumbling around in my blindfold and fell out the window7 right on top of a man named Fred R. Timken, a census taker, and broke all his lead pencils. He w7as cross as a bear, and though I offered him both Philip Morris and Marlboro in both the Flip-Top Box and Soft Pack, he refused to be mollified. In fact, he refused to put my name down in the census, so wrhen you read population figures of the United States, will you please add one?
WORLD FAMOUS GINGISS
TUXEDO RENTAL
Complete Outfit $Q50
Only at . . .
Michigan at Washington
But I digress. We are speaking of Philip Morris and Marlboro who w7ill bring you this column throughout the school year. In this space I will take up vital aspects of undergraduate life, like high-low split and Brigitte Bardot, and it is my fondest hope that the column will be half as much fun for you as it is for me. © loss. Max shutman
Keep On Your Toes With HK}[f6Z
When the student body sits in class all day, getting numb at both ends, be crazy like a fox. Keep on your toes with NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour studying and hep on late dates. Safe as coffee and much more convenient.
♦ ♦ ♦
The makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris welcome you to another year of fun and games from Old Max, and another year of good smoking from us. Filter or non-filter, pick what you please—and what you pick will please you.
October 3, 1958
YOU'RE INVITED TO
LOOK OVER OUR
BIG SELECTION
OF FINE
SPORT COATS
aver-colors, Notre
taller, smaller, or larger than the age” man . . . you’ll find the patterns, and fabrics that other
■ On the Campus—Notre Dame
Our sport coats are hand-picked by trained buyers who have been selecting the clothing worn by many Notre Dame men for the past quarter-of-a-century. You’ll find America’s finest makes . . . you’ll find YOUR size, even if you’re
Dame men like and wear. Why not come in and look them over?
GILBERT'S ^ampug^hop

the Scholasti
GET WHAT YOU NEED NOW...
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY ..
PAY
1
3
NOV
PAY
1 3
DEC
PAY
1
3 JAN
We know that most college men must live on a budget. We also know the importance that the right clothes play in a successful man’s life. If you need any clothing or haberdashery, get it now and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in November, one-third in December and one-third in January, and, there are no carrying charges for this service. Your charge account is open . . . please use it!
October 3, 195S
COMMENTARY!
(Ed. note—This is a copy of a letter sent to Larry Wentz of the Blue Circle pep rally committee by Herb Riband, the president of the Marching Band. We feel that it is important enough to publish in the SCHOLASTIC.)
Dear Larry:
I want to congratulate you on your organizing of the pep rallies this year and thank you for your courtesy and consideration toward the Band in your dealing with us. You are the first Rally Chairman in many a year to be so considerate, and you may be assured of our continued cooperation.
Despite your efforts to have a spirited but civilized pep rally, however, an unfortunate incident occurred at the rally on Friday night, September 26. Not only was the Band mauled and pushed around by the student mob while marching around the campus, but a solo cornet player, Tom Tafelski, had his horn broken and his lip split by a group of rampaging students as the Band entered the Field House.
This incident would be aggravating enough by itself, but the student body also manifested its lack of manners and civilized bevavior throughout the entire rally, by such things as continually interrupting and harrassing the speakers by climbing up on shoulders and onto the balcony, by whistling, applauding, and noisemaking while the Alma Mater was being played and sung, and by pushing and trampling everyone in the way during their exodus from the Field House at the conclusion of the rally. Father Joyce’s talk was particularly interrupted and hard to hear because of some juvenile students who like to show off at the expense of the speakers and the purpose of the rally.
Mr. O’Brien verifies the fact that in every year that he has been Band Director, that is, since 1952, the Band has been pushed, shoved, and molested while . marching around the campus, and bandsmen have been injured and their instruments damaged. We feel that it is time to put an end to this. Since it was certainly not Tafelski’s fault that his horn was damaged, and since Mr. O’Brien informs me that the Band budget is too limited to cover this uncalled for expense, I am sending the bill for repair, (Continued on page 26)
This column will be a permanent feature of the Scholastic. We hope to be able^, to make comments on campus events, both past and future, and keep you informed^ as to what are possibly the major happenings in a particular week. Our sagacious^ opinions on these events will undoubtedly add to your reading pleasure, we are sure!4^ _____________________________________________	6
At the outset of every school year someone, nearly everyone has predictions or^j advice with regard to the coming term. Since this is our first regular- issue, we of W The SCHOLASTIC would like to do both, relating one to the other.
We predict that this will be a successful school year if . . . there is the highest It degree of co-operation first, among student leaders and, second, between the faculty-^ administration and the student body.
With regard to the first, co-operation among student leaders, we noted last spring-^M that many of the student leaders for this coming year are good friends as well as'gkj acquaintances by virtue of their various offices. This is an excellent condition and-^i should provide a climate conducive to unity in working toward their goals. It isS our fervent hope that this relation will produce just such a unified effort.
Concerning the second level of co-operation we should like to mention specifically By co-operation between faculty-administration and the student body which will keep each group well infonned of the other’s various projects and goals as the year^O progresses. This type of co-operation is vital. Two years ago a new preregistration system was introduced, seemingly without any knowledge beforehand on the part^ of the students. As a result, confusion and misunderstanding resulted. Last year, however, that a new grading system was under construction was common knowledge. When it was finally announced there were the usual gripes from the usual gripers^ but neither confusion nor misunderstanding took place. On the whole this changeSt was well received. The difference, it seems, lay in the previous knowledge that such<^ a change was under considration.	|p
Therefore, if the 1958-59 school year is to be a success, we expect close co-operation^ among all concerned.
W^
Again this year the SCHOLASTIC plans to run a “Repercussion” column.
hope that student opinion on campus issues and other considerations will be brought^F
out through these letters. We also encourage constructive criticism of our short-^-i comings. This column could be one of the most interesting and important parts of^, our publication. Letters can be sent to Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana; 354 Sorin or slipped under the door of the SCHOLASTIC office in the Student Center. Letters^ must be signed although names will be withheld on request.
Despite the fact that some math majors are somewhat distressed sided printing of “The Religious Bulletin” we would like to commend Boarman, the new Prefect of Religion, on his innovations in this line.
with the two-^p Father GlennSfi
Next week the campus will be the scene of much activity. We
will be under;
talk at the
circulating one report j
surveillance by many people and also by LIFE magazine. It is our hope that some of the immature actions that went on last week end will not be repeated. We are especially referring to the Friday night pep rally where some overzealous students caused considerable embarrassment and general eyebrow-raising. Certainly our enthusiasm at rallies does not have to take the form of gymnastics and rude interruptions. It is certainly remarkable that Father Joyce was able to put up with the
disrespect and lack of sense that a few students exhibited during his rally. Let’s make sure that this does not happen again.
PAUL’S
SHOE REPAIR
Rear of Main Building • HOURS:
Daily—7 a.m to 5 p.m.
Saturday—7 to Noon •
While You Wait Service Everything for Shoes PATRONIZE YOUR CAMPUS STORE
There were an unusual number of rumor and unfounded stories around the campus this week. Father Bernard proved the fallacy of
Tuesday morning when he denied that the pregame shows on the steps of Sorin were banned. However, it would seem that the Sorinites should be a bit more cautious' in their next presentation. Father did admit that there was adverse visitor reaction to the shenanigans. Perhaps such a ban would be in order in the future. For now, a word of warning should be sufficient.
We want to express our condolences to Denny Shaul and other Senate members on the unfortunate situation that developed in regard to dance bands. From the information we’ve received, it looks as though the Senate is immune from any legal action. However, they may be subject to unreasonable union action.—The Editors.
The Scholastic
6
the beginning:
by JOHN BELLAIRS
a little too much about the author
Once again, summer is icumen out and the merry students are icumen in. [ In other words (and better ones, too) H the academic year, such as it is, has be-j gun. It is time for the weather to be* come worse than usual, for the leaves to turn from their usual withered brown to a sodden, rain-bleached gray. It is time, also, for rectors and campus po-1 licemen to practice up for the open season on LD.’s (which will probably be li~ received by the students in early De-[ cember). . .time for the shabby, cheaply H bound, 25c editions of Marx’s Commu-'4- nist Manifesto in the Book Store to be hidden under a pile of copies of Lithography Made Easy, while a stack of shabby, cheaply bound, 75c editions of , the Communist Manifesto are prominently displayed near the entrance. . . , time for the Dining Hall to reopen, thus providing a thriving business for ' the dimly-lit South Bend pizza palazzos. And, of course, it is therefore time for the Scholastic to throw itself into the laps of the unsuspecting freshmen and the hostile upperclassmen. To make matters worse, “Escape” is back, with a . pair of new dealers stacking the collective deck. The editor, in his questionable y wisdom, does not like too much of a good thing. Therefore he is going to ' turn over my inferior writings and old grocery lists to an imitator, Charles Bowen, who will rework them into a column which he will pass off as his own every other week. It is all right with me if you read the work of this mental pariah, but remember to allow a slight sneer to cross your face as you read.
I find myself in the odd position of filling with type (pronounced “tripe”) the space which I used to view with dis' • gust on occasion, and which I used to condemn with such phrases as “Echh! I * could have done better than that in my sleep!” or “Well, that Scholastic makes a nice liner for the wastebasket, anyway.” So, with good intentions and a ’ weather-eye for brickbats, the author 1 manifests himself to the hooting mob. r My name, as you may have guessed by now, is John Bellairs. I am known * to my friends, none of whom have reached the age of reason, as Jollivar i (American spelling), and live in 119 I Sorin. The mention of the hall which * is South Bend’s answer to the House of Usher brings to mind an interesting fact; I have never known of a humor column editor who did not live in either Sorin or Walsh. There is a simple ex
October 3, 1958
planation for this, however, but I can’t think of it at the moment, so let the matter drop. Anyway, I would like to say that this column is traditionally the home of the “Sorin joke” which is unintelligible to those who live outside these mouldering walls. Therefore, for the record, I will state that these Sorin jokes will continue for at least two shabby reasons:
(1)	To satisfy the aforementioned mindless friends, most of whom live in or around Sorin.
(2)	To fill space.
(2%) To antagonize people so that they will write letters to “Repercussions,” “Backwash,” or whatever the Vox Pop. column is going to be called this year.
I like to see my name in print.
Further information about the author: I have never held a position of importance in any club’ to which I have belonged, and I am not now, and never have been, a member of student government. My room is at least 15 feet high, its exact height being a mystery because of the everpresent cloud formations and is decorated to resemble a cross between a Victorian tenement and a Pompeian attic. I have the largest collection of miniature cuspidors in the South Bend-Mishawaka area, and hold the indoor record for free-style junk collecting. Outside of this, I am like any other normal Sorinite, a frightening thought in itself.
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION DEPT.
Incoming freshmen will be deliriously happy to know that “Escape” has penetrated the wall of red tape and scowling guards surrounding this year’s registration system, just in time to be too late to do any good whatsoever. However, for the benefit of those who will be around to register next semester, I will set down some easy-to-follow directions which will guide the unwary student through this semiannual program with a minimum of broken pencils and nervous seizures.
(1)	Your student number will not be what you think it is. Thus it will be necessary for each student to carry a list of all possible combinations of numbers. As a short cut, it might be wise to obtain a list of 1927 Ohio license plates, as it has been hinted
that next semester’s numbers will be drawn from this source.
(2)	In addition to this list, it will be necessary for the student to take to the Drill Hall the following items:
a.	A list of the courses available at the University, printed in Latin, Braille, and Hindustani, on vellum, and bound in morocco leather, embossed with the coat of arms of the Archduke of Saxe-Coburg. These will be available at the Book Store, and may be paid for on the installment plan.
b.	A small papyrus scroll on which your schedule of courses will be inscribed in Notre Dame India Ink (also available at the Book Store).
c.	Twelve gross of pencils, sharpened.
d.	Presents of varying expense, to be used as propitiatory offerings for professors and deans.
e.	Smelling salts and 50 ccs. of morphine solution.
f.	A copy of Burmeister’s Atlas and Almanac for 1877.
g.	Anything else you can think of.
(3)	Thus equipped, the student will then proceed to the entrance, where he will present himself to the guard, who will be dressed as hussar in the Napoleonic army circa 1812. The guard will give the password “Red Tape” and the countersign will be “IBM”.
(4)	Once inside, the student will give three blasts on a ram’s horn, summoning the guard of the inner chambers, who will escort the student to a row of booths hung with purple draperies. Inside each booth will be found a representative of a particular department, clad in a costume reminiscent of a Western gambler’s c. 1880. In his hand will be a deck of cards. The student will play a hand of showdown, blackjack, or faro (choice of one) to determine the hours of his class. This done the student must go to table 8, touch something of wood, turn about three times, and then take the equipment mentioned in Step (2) to table 9, where it will be confiscated. After an hour, the student will be presented with his inscribed papyrus scndL THIS WILL BE THE ONLY RECORD OF CLASSES AND HOURS AND MUST NOT BE LOST.
(5)	Repeat steps	(3)	and	(4),	this
time in disguise.	'
(6)	Enroll in another	University.	:
' '	7

SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
All students who were unable to attend the Scholastic meeting held last Tuesday are asked to come to the Scholastic offices in the LaFor-tune Student Center this Wednesday at 7 p.m.
CE 2-2253
LaSalle Hotel
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP attractive, exclusive suits and sportwear for college mon and prep schoolers
Our interesting Fall selection of clothing for undergraduates wearing sizes 35 to 42 is now ready. Included are good-looking new worsted suits in distinctive colorings, new designs m sport jackets and rugged new outerwear... as well as traditional favorites. All reflect our quality, styling and taste, and are as moderately priced as we can make them. Our "346” furnishings are also designed for undergraduates.
We invite you to come in and enjoy the expert service and expanded facilities of our University Shop. Fall catalogue sent upon request.
Suits, $60 to $70 • Worsted Flannel Trousers, $19.50 Tweed Sport Jackets, $45 • Tweed Topcoats, $7 5 Our Own Make "346” Cotton Oxford Shirts, $5.50 and $6
Ifens yhmishings^ats echoes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK * CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
VACATION!! WEEKENDS!! See
THE MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
For Airline Reservations at no extra charge
s
re

f' gp


The Scholastic
} Scholastic
| Vol. 100 October 3, 1958 No. 1

Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
preview (I hope)
Founded 1867
JI Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, 1 Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of || postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized f June 23, 1918.
J; GEORGE CLEMENTS [Editor
'	BOB SEDLACK
. .	Associate Editor
ji’
L	RON BLUBAUGH..............News	Editor
Ip	WALT RUDGE..............:.Copy	Editor
i	JIM YOCH..............Features	Editor
’	TEDDY THOMPSON..........Sports	Editor
PETE HASBROOK—.Advertising Manager
BOB FANCHER...............Photography
DAVE SOMMER...............Photography
■'	LYN RELPH..............Assistant	News
ROY RUBELI.............Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA...........Assistant	Copy
■	CHAS RIECK............Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS............-Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA...........Assistant Features
, JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER..._Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER...........Assistant Features
* > TOM ROSE...................Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER................Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manu-3 scripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
jj Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year, || Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5,	Oct. 31; No.	6,
il	Nov. 7;	No.	7, Nov. 14; No. 8,	Nov. 21; No.	9,
Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12;
II	No. 11,	Jan.	16; No. 12, Jan. 23;	No. 13, Feb. 13;
I	No. 14,	Feb.	20; No. 15, Feb. 27;	No. 16, March	6;
U No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, | April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, 1 , May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25, May 29.
1 ON THE COVER . . .
i The cover this week, our first regular I issue, is the work of Jon Siddle, a senior fine arts major. It is a pictorial
representation of Pope’s famous quotation and, we feel, appropriate for the beginning of the school year.
Now that the school year has begun, and I guess most of us have had to acknowledge that fact whether we wanted to or not, it might be profitable for us to sit back for a few minutes and reflect about the future. What kind of year is it going to be? Wh^r does the immediate future hold in store for us?
For many of us, as individuals, this is going to be a very important year. Perhaps it is our first in a new way of life or the last in it. Perhaps this is the year we discover our vocation or find that “one” girl or stumble upon a new way of thinking of looking at die same thing from more than one direction. For some of us, it will be a normal year, filled with the usual activities, problems, sorrows, and chuckles. For a few, it may even be a dull year, one that has little bearing on our education, on die course that we are following.
Let’s consider this future, however, in relation to what it may contain for die University as a whole. What kind of year is it going to be for Notre Dame? Will we chart any new paths this year? Is there going to be any new thinking in respect to what we ate pursuing and the methods we use to pursue it? Will the coming year have any importance in the development of Notre Dame, in its growth as an institution of learning? Obviously, no one can actually preview this coming year. Yet, we can express some hopes as to what it may possibly mean for all of us together, for Notre Dame.
When I was a freshman, a wise and knowing senior once told me that die Scholastic -was the most useless publication he had ever read. There have been times during the past three years when I have almost thought the same dung myself. There have been times when the publication has not been die intra-campus communication it should have been and has not served as a voice of intelligent student opinion. And it is these two functions of the Scholastic that I wish to discuss in relation to the future year and what it may . mean to the University.
Like many schools, Notre Dame has its faults. No one would deny that there are problems here that need to be tackled and corrected. Unlike many schools, Notre Damens problems are often unique, particular to us or to a very few schools. My purpose in writing this is not to list or discuss these problems but rather to emphasize die important role that intelligent student opinion could play in helping to study and rectify them.
Oftentimes, what student opinion the administration and faculty receive is the usual gripring, the anti-everything, “there’s nothing right here” type of criticism. This is not die opinion that is needed. This type of criticism only serves to build up a wall of resentment and friction between the student body and other parts of die University. What we do need is stimulating and open discussion of existing campus problems by all segments of the educational community in order to enable those who do have die authority to remedy a situation to possess knowledge about both sides of die question. In other words, student opinion, if intelligently and properly promulgated, could be an integral part of any thorough study of campus problems.
Obviously, I believe that such intelligent opinion can often be published in die Scholastic not only by students but by die faculty and administration. We have an existing organ of intra-campus communication. Why not use it? Why not use the Scholastic to enable any one segment of the entire University to leam the opinions and beliefs of other portions of it?
To effectively use the pages of die Scholastic for such purposes means two things: first, the cooperation of the faculty and administration — both in permitting student opinion . to be heard and by expressing their own opinions and stands on the various issues; and second, a realization by all, especially the student body, that we are not trying to wadi our ditty linen in public but rather to intelligently discuss things that are of mutual importance and concern to the University.
Some people are concerned with the fact that this discussion will reach beyond die campus. It is my opinion that rational pro and con discussion on any important topic is the best possible public relations for die University. It indicates that die students and die / entire University are carefully considering all die aspects of a particular problem and are attempting to ascertain the proper solution while helping each other understand the . . other’s position.	.	’
Possibly, this could be an important year. If it is, possibly die SCHOLASTIC could . have a rede in making it important. It will take the cooperation and understanding of all, ■ and it will necessitate some earnest and broad thinking by everyone about die problems that beset the campus.—G.C.
October 3, 1958
Student Trip to Baltimore Set For Navy Game November I
The Student Trip for 1958 will be to the Navy game at Baltimore, Md., on Nov. 1. The trip is sponsored by the University and student government.
A limited number of tickets at approximately $45 each will soon go on sale. Announcements will be posted as to the date. The price of the tickets includes accommodations at the Sheraton-Park Hotel in Washington, D. C., transportation to and from the railroad terminals, and two box lunches on the train.
The group will leave Friday after-1 noon, Oct. 31, and arrive for Mass in g Baltimore, the morning of All Saints? day. After the game the train will re-S turn to Washington in time for dinner. S There will be a blind date service Satur- g day night.	It
•00
67	-60

We know what you need in class and out...

and we have it for you!
Textbooks . . T-shirts . . or T-squares . . our A to Z stock of
merchandise needed for class
and campus is ready for
you. Enjoy the convenience of one-stop shopping and one-stop
selling, too, for we will pay top prices for your
used books through-
out the year. Ours is an "self-service policy" for students and faculty as we are here
to bring you those
services and supplies required as part of college life.
Come in and get acquainted.
WELCOME TO CAMPUS.
Notre Dame
BOOKSTORE
10
- The Scholastic
STUDENTS RECEIVE COLD VACCINE MONDAY



i
Notre Dame Doctors Develop New Formula
A newly-developed and tested cold vaccine will be distributed among registered students Monday night at the student infirmary. The vaccine was developed by Drs. Thomas G. Ward and Joseph A. Crowley of Notre Dame. They were conjoined in their work by Dr. Robert J. Huebner of the National Institute of Health. The vaccine was first tested among small groups of laboratory personnel volunteers, and further this summer among prisoners in Maryland.
When questioned on the success of the vaccine, Dr. Ward commented, “I know
L S' this vaccine will i-educe colds on this








=
campus, but what we want to find out in this study is how much it will reduce them.”
The students are in reality participating in a study to determine how effective the vaccine is in counteracting the seven viruses commonly believed responsible for the common cold. The students are not “guinea pigs” for an untried vaccine, but by voluntarily taking the shot under the skin they will provide the first mass test for effectiveness.
The problem of an effective vaccine against the common cold has been an ; unsolved problem in medical science. But lately with several discoveries such as breeding virus in monkey kidney tissue cultures, the possibilities of such a vaccine’s success have been greatly improved. Not all of the viruses, it is believed, that cause the common cold have been isolated yet, but progress is definitely being made.
The facilities of the Student Health Service and the undergraduate setup here make a successful study of effectiveness highly plausible. Last year’s Asian flu injections saved an estimated 300,000 class hours and cut down the
bn
APPLICANTS PLEASE
The student government is asking for people interested-in working on the newly formed advertising committee. This group will handle all publicity for student government functions such as dances, concerts, and the Mardi Gras.
This activity is open to artists and non-artists, as well as all undergraduates. All applicants are asked to send a brief letter stating their interest to 232 Walsh Hall.
High Moss Solemnly Opens Academic Yean Father Joyce Addresses Assembled Faculty
Addressing the entire faculty at the formal opening of Notre Dame’s 117th academic year, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., warned against the “constant danger of substituting piety for learning.”
In his sermon, given during the Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Fr. Joyce called on Notre Dame’s nearly five hundred faculty members “to remember* that Notre Dame is first and foremost a university and only insofar as it excels as a university can it give proper homage to its patroness.”
Reaffirming Notre Dame’s spiritual commitment as a Christian institution of learning, Fr. Joyce maintained that
rate of infection by much more than one-half.
Approximately half of the cold vaccine vials intended for distribution on campus will be the vaccine and the rest will be “placebo,” a harmless fluid, dividing the students into three groups: those receiving vaccine, those who get placebo, and those who had nothing. The different rates of cold infections among the three groups of studentswill be compared, and in this manner the effectiveness can be definitely shown.
The cold vaccine and placebo were prepared at the National Drug Company, tested for safety, and each vial is code-marked. The code is known only by two completely independent doctors, one in Pennsylvania and the other in Maryland. This arrangement will prevent any possibility of misinterpreting results on campus.
Cold symptoms and infections will be detected and reported on the basis of visits to the infirmary, admissions to the infirmary, sui-veys on campus, and post card surveys. The visits and admissions to the infirmary will be handled ■ by Dr. Crowley and his associates and a variety of clinical observations will be made.
It is the hope of Dr. Ward that the frequent, even weekly, surveys will aid in detecting every cold that impinges on the campus between now and March, the period of observation. The survey will consist of only the simple question, “Have you got a cold?” and a positive or negative answer.
The research necessary for the i.ong tedium of development was financed by the University, the National Institute of Health, and the Common Cold Foundation.
the campus can only be the shrine to / Our Lady it hopes to be by combining . “the highest technical competence with a thorough integration of the spiritual values which bring intelligent purpose to -our efforts.”	-
This combining can be achieved only. through the faculty’s efforts to under- .
stand their
subjects so thoroughly that
FATHBI JOYCE
Warns of obligation	<
they communicate to the students the -proper place of their fields in the whole intellectual order.
To maintain the supremacy of learn- - -ing in the university, Father Joyce emphasized, ‘is obviously not to say thatf we should secularize our learning pro- . cess.” As a matter of fact, he continued, “for many thoughtful men today, one of the great tragedies of modern , -education has been the almost complete \ secularization of learning in many of our universities.”	. -
The spiritual nature of man has. ai-	"
ways been part of Notre Dame’s basic , philosophy, Father Joyce said. .“It is i only in view of man’s spiritual nature^ -• his free will, and consequent responsi- ; bilities that there is any ultimate and meaningful purpose to the training .of human minds. And, therefore,. rather than our spiritual commitment acting as a brake or a deterrent to the perfecting of tiie intellect, it would seem take
. - (Continued on Page 27)
K
October 3, 1958
11
ft

Marching Band Commences Musical Season Appearing in New Uniforms With 'New' Look
The marching band of the Fighting Irish presented a new look this season when they donned brand new uniforms and took the field. Keeping the distinctive, but conservative color which has traditionally characterized the band, the new uniform resembles the old one in many respects.
Instead of the two-tone blue suit, which has been used by the band for the last 13 years, this year’s uniform is a deep navy blue trimmed with gold at the sleeve cuffs and on the sides of the pants.
The bandmen will -wear gold color gloves to give the extra flash for formations on the football field. In over-all appearance the new uniform resembles that of a naval officer’s.
In order that the uniform .will be suitable at concerts and athletic events, selection of style and color was made by a special student’s committee. They chose this design because it was simple and dignified for indoor performances and at the same time sparkling and . attractive for outdoor shows.
The band will use a radically new drum holder this year which will enable the drummer to perform maneuvers previously impossible. The holder, called the Kester Hi-stepper, was invented by Ralph Kester of the Drumland Studio in South Bend.
With a conventional drum holder the drum rests on the right leg of the
MUM MAJOR AND MARCHING RAND MEMBERS DISPLAYING “NEW LOOIC Band members: Patout, Marto, and Drum Major Cossachi
12
player. This situation hinders the drummer in executing various movements. The Kester holder is designed to eliminate this difficulty by placing the drum directly in front of the player.
It is particularly advantageous to the drummers who must master the “hike step,” the trademark of the marching band. In addition to making marching easier for the drummers, the Kester holder enables them to play the dram while kneeling down, facilitates various facing movements, and increases the volume of the drams.
The Notre Dame band, which is almost as old as the university, has steadily grown in quality and spirit under the leadership of Robert O’Brien, present band director. He has been with the band since 1952.
The University band enters its 113 year of continual performance this season. At present its membership numbers approximately 110.
The dram major for the 58-59 season is Bruce Cossachi, a music major from Harrison, N. Y. Other officers are president Herb Riband, a senior history major from Chalfont,Pa.; Vice President Ron Thyen, a senior in business administration from Jasper, Ind.; and Secretary Greg Gilles, from Greenwhich, Conn.
Others include Social Chairman Paul
Alumni Secretary Kevin
Warto. and McCarthy.
Father Barr Appointed St. Joseph Hall Rector |
The livable completion of the newM’ Moreau Seminary made possible the re-^ designation of old Moreau Seminary as»’> St. Joseph’s Hall, undei- the rectorshijj^J of Rev. Frederick Barr. St. Joseph’s^? now houses students who lived in thef? Old College last year, and that building^' is now a residence for student priests.
Rector changes were extensive this|; : fall. Relieving Rev. Carl Hager as rec-^ tor of Lyons Hall after years of service^ there is Rev. Thomas Brennan. Next^.l door in Morrissey the rector, Rev. Robert^-1 Pelton, replaces Rev. Raymond Cour.
Moving across campus, Fisher’s news'll rector, Rev. Charles Carey, formerlyfoi prefect of religion, resumed teaching this year and holds the position last year JR occupied by Rev. John Walsh.
There was near total reorganization: ^ of rectors of freshman halls, with new^ll Stanford Hall now governed by Rev.® Matthew Miceli. His predecessor was® Rev. George Bernard, newly appointed .fl vice president of student affairs. Last® year Rev. Glenn Boarman guided Breen- QE Phillips; this year it will be Rev. Paul® Wendel.	■
St. Edward’s new rector is Rev. John fl Walsh, with Rev. William McAuliffe fl moving to Cavanaugh this year. fl Freshman Midshipmen Swell B Navy Unit to Record Number;!
With the registration of the freshman midshipmen, the Navy ROTO at Notre^, Dame has become the largest NROTC unit in the U.S., according to the recent announcement by the Navy office. The' enrollment in the corps now totals over j 400.	1;
This year the NROTC received a quota j, of 110 new contract students, which topifi all of the 52 units in the United States^ In addition 24 regular students werd|{ accepted.
A navy officer qualifying test wasi| given early this fall at the University.^ and successful candidates with higher^ scores were given physical exams before^ being accepted as cadet midshipmen.
Regular students in the NROTC re^. ceive room, board, tuition, and book expenses during their four years at the^ University. They are paid a retained pay of $50 a month. Contract students' who make up majority of the corp,I receive $27 subsistence pay beginning^ their junior year.
Army ROTC also announced it hass reached the peak enrollment in the University’s history. The Army unit now^ numbers nearly 1000 cadets. The increase, from last year’s 700, is credited* to the large number of freshmen registrants.
The Air Force detachment received an official inspection team from Air Uni-^ versity, Maxwell, Ala., last week. During their two day visit the AF Federal In spection Team was briefed on the duties and activities of the Notre Dame AFR TC and taken on a campus tour by th cadet staff.
The Scholasti
ARTIST’S DRAWING OF NEW MAINTENANCE CENTER AND WAREHOUSE
Warehouse to Open Under Development Plan
. Foundations and walls have been completed on a new half-million dollar maintenance and warehouse center for the University. The new building is scheduled for completion in January.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., pointed out that the facility will be the first building erected as part of Notre Dame’s ten-year $66.6 million development program which was launched last spring.
This new building will consolidate and replace a series of old shop buildings which date back to the early days of the University. These are the old shops in back of the Administration Building.
The new maintenance center is on old Juniper Road at the northeast edge of the campus alongside the Heat and Power Lab. It is next to the railroad tracks to simplify unloading and storage. A one-story, buff brick building, it will be the headquarters for* approximately 60 maintenance employees.
Designed by Ellerbe and Co. of St. Paul, Minn., the center has a 229-foot frontage. It will include several maintenance shops, a warehouse providing 30,240 square feet of storage space, a garage for servicing and storing University vehicles, and an office.
The general contractor is Sollitt Con-
JACQUES MARITAIN TO LECTURE
Philosopher Jacques Maritain will present a series of lectures on ' Christianity and Moral Philosophy here next week. He will be on campus Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday under the sponsorship of the Department of Phi. losophy.
His first lecture will be “The Im-t pact of Christianity on Moral Philosophy.” A second one will discuss f Emmanuel Kant and the final one 1 will discuss Kierkegaard. All lectures will be open only to graduate students and faculty. The place and time will be given only to those concerned.	,
October 3, 1958
struction Co., Inc., South Bend. Morrison, Inc., Hammond, Ind., has been awarded the plumbing and heating contract and Colip Brothers, South Bend, will be the electrical contractor.
Season Tickets on Sale For Symphony Concerts
Season tickets are now on sale for the five performances of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. Applications for tickets can be made at the information booth of the Main Building, in Room 101, or in the office of the Athletic Director in Breen-Phillips Hall. The price of the five concerts is $5, that is, $1 per conceit.
All conceits are at 4 pun. Sunday, the first four in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s College, the fifth at Notre Dame. Jose Iturbi will be the guest at St. Mary’s Oct. 26, followed by Eileen Farrell on Dec. 7, Eric Friedman Feb. 1, and Frank Martori March 8. The last concert, to be held here, will feature pianist Leonard Pennario.
CALENDAR
SUNDAY — Dixie club meeting at 7:30 p.m. in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. .
MONDAY thru WEDNESDAY — Tickets for the Military Ball will be sold from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center; also Jacques Maritain lectures. .
THURSDAY — Senate meeting in the amphitheatre of the Student Center, beginning at 7:30 p.m.
o o
This is the new column that has been introduced to the format of the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of club presidents and members. The announcement deadline is 9 p.m. on the Sunday preceding the issue in which the news is to be printed. The announcements must be written.
Notices can be given to Ron Blubaugh, 309 Pangbom; Lyn Relph, 332 Morrissey; slipped under the door of the SCHOLASTIC office on the second floor of the Student Center, or mailed to the SCHOLASTIC.
Student Senate Faces Possible Legal Action
The Student Senate of Notre Dame has recently learned that it faces possible legal action by two booking agents in Chicago and the musicians’ union.
The Willard Alexander Co. and The Paul Bannister Co. have informed the student government that they are considering taking two separate cases to the musicians’ union involving breach of contract.
Willard Alexander contends that, through conversation, the student government agreed to sign Dan Belloc for their dance on Nov. 14. Paul Bannister claims that it was agreed, through letter and conversation, to contract with the Dukes of Dixieland for a dance on Nov. 22.
It is the contention of the Senate that neither is a valid statement, since no contract was signed. Both companies are fully aware that a contract is in no way valid unless it is approved by the Senate, signed by the social commissioner and countersigned by Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., vice president of student affairs.
With regards to the letter, it was only a request for a blank contract form in case the Senate should decide to use the Dukes of Dixieland, which it voted not to.
It is the feeling of Denny Shaul, student body president, that the matter is “a total misunderstanding” which he “hopes to settle within a week without involving the musicians’ union.” ’
Student government plans call for Ralph Marterie and his band for Nov. 14, and no big entertainment on Nov. 23.
Fr. Harvey Releases The Season's Shows
Plans for the 1958-59 season of the University Theater were announced this week by Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C. The titles and dates of the productions are A Hatful of Rain by Michael V. Gazzo, Nov. 12 through 16; Murder in the Cathedral by T. S. Eliot, Feb. 18 through 22; and the spring musical, May 6 through 10. Under consideration for the spring musical production are The Boy Friend, The Most Happy Fella, and The King and I.
Tryouts for Hatful were held last week with 80 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s competing. A tentative cast has been selected and rehearsals have begun. The play, dealing with narcotics addiction, had a successful Broadway run, a cross-country tour, and was made into a motion picture.
The annual campaign for season subscriptions to the theater will open Oct. 13 for one week. Student prices for a season ticket to the three productions are $2.50 for orchestra and $2.00 balcony. The box office in Washington Hall will be open from 3:30 to 8:30 pan.
13

Hi ki
New Moreau Seminary
Contemporary-Styled Building
Almost Completed on Shores
of Saint Joseph’s Lake

r 4
by James Yoch
•K
, The Scholastic
if
Thereisanewreflection in St Joseph’s lake, a wavering amoeba that looks like a splash of yellow paint on the green and blue in the waters. Amidstthe quiet scene of the Sorinesque boathouse and Community infirmary with their silent shrouds of trees and lawns, the new Moreau seminary flows across the crown of a low ridge of shoreline in a sinuous, soft-spoken curve as quiet as a cassock-muffled step;
Within this curve of the high central unit and its two major wings, the Chi-- - *

(left) View off Golden Doom across
filled with stained glass.
(bottom left) Cloister walk and courtyard looking toward the (fining hall.
is the eighty-ffoot-high stainless steel cross.
(below) Chapel and unfinished win-
i
ere



cago architectural firm of Edo J. Belli and Anthony J. Belli have arranged the complete facilities for a scholasticate, or house of studies, comparable to the layman’s college, for the Holy Cross seminarian.
One of the most important valves of

t 1 JS 1
the aesthetic — conscious atmosphere ... which the new seminary provides, is its -cultural effect upon the seminarian,the priest and professor of tomorrow.
On the lower level, a cloister walk ot pillars set with multi-colored ceramic tile surrounds a small courtyard which , is edged on two sides by the glass walls of the recreational rooms and. the tri-
October 3, 1958

The chapel is seemingly suspended over the glass-walled library. To the right on the second level is the dining hall over the various lounges.
level library, and the various necessary shops for barbers, tailors, and craftsmen.
The chapel floats above the transparent library and a pagoda-lipped roof sibilates over it. Blue, grey, and white ceramic tiles pave and color the chapel ceiling from dark, shadowed blue along the edges to scintillating white over the main altar. Like the golden helmets of invisible guards, twelve brass lights march across this blue field. Behind the altar, alternating blocks of sculptured stone and stained glass create a mathematical dance of light and shadow across the floor. The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., and his students, who designed the bas-relief on the stones of the window unit, will form the windows by his unique method with hammered chunks of colored glass in the appropriate shape set in mortar, instead of the conventional lead.
Resting above long green concrete steps, the main entrance hall, paneled in a dark red Philippine mahogany veneer, opens onto the chapel towards the south and the auditorium on the north. Out in front of the auditorium, which is being used temporarily as a chapel, sprawls the gymnasium with its various dependencies such as shower and dressing rooms and handball courts.
Along the curve, proceeding from the central hall, are classrooms and offices. The dining hall lies at the end of this hall and looks out on three sides into the surrounding campus and woods. The furniture here, as in all the rooms, is surfaced with walnut-grained formica.
The top three floors contain the rooms for the seminarians, brothers, and priests. About two hundred and twenty-five single rooms. An ensemble of cabinets, desk, and washstand divide the seminarians’ rooms from one another,
16
thus furnishing an efficient, attractive, and inexpensive wall. Another saving ' in time and money was accomplished by using doors and windows which extend to the ceiling and thus eliminate any cutting of the cinder block to fill the usual gap.
The stifling gloom that usually pervades long, uninteresting halls is absent
Writers
are invited to bring written or, preferably, typewritten manuscripts of descriptive or critical essays, sketches, or short stories and any humorous or serious fiction which they would like to submit for publication in the Scholastic to Jim Yoch, Room 127 Pangborn, or the Scholastic Office, second floor, LaFor-tune Student Center between 8 and 9 p.m. Sundays.
here. Glass walls face onto hallways from the rooms and filter light into them in a soft glow that disappears down the slow-moving bend of the walls. Although the impression of the building is curved, the structure is, in reality, a series of progressively offset straight lines. The result is a curve. If the vast amount of space and the enduring quality of its materials is considered, the cost of Moreau seminary, a little under $3,000,-
000, is money wisely invested in the future. This sum is being raised by the Office of Province Development, which to the Holy Cross Fathers is comparable to the Notre Dame Foundation of the University.
It is good to remember in considering the new seminary that it is built to endure for many decades. Its main features must be permanence and easy maintenance, with provisions for scholastic as well as physical efficiency which facilitate the development of intellectual proficiency and competency. By adopting a principle and spirit of contemporary architecture, and of modern man — to collect and centralize as many functions as possible in one place — great success has been attained. Such mass buildings ' are generally efficient and often comparatively inexpensive. Rarely are they as aesthetically satisfying.
Back Page
(Continued from page 34)	,
the victims of overwhelming pressures to live for the here and now. A young man is encouraged to think not abstractly, but in a superficially “practical” 1 way, the “way that gets things done.” Having focused on material and ef- । fervescent goals, our energies are dissipated in a thousand unnatural direc- ! tions. The further we go, the more our | consolations become ashen. In our com- ;
pounding frustration we turn to outside influences to supply our deepest necessities — the large organization for goals and fellowship, the State for paternal protection, personal authority and “lead
♦
1
ership” for satisfaction. These things take on the quality of myths, which G. f
K. Chesterton has defined as, in essence,
-	- K-
indications of a search for something,
These myths are determining the course of our lives and they are purely imaginary and meretricious fantasies. Bi The Church teaches that we are meant S for the Infinite. These myths can be only < tenth rate surrogates and can provide g no personal satisfaction. We, as Catholics, have the only answers to the peren- p nial frustrations of American youth, and K yet, being a minority, we are afraid to § trust them for fear that we somehow will be drawn out of the better things H into an isolated mediocrity. This is ut- K terly false. For the fundamental lone- 8 liness of modern youth, for the distrust -J of all authority, for the absence of goals 8 and personal purpose, the Church has « the only effective remedies.	i
As I see it, we are bound to surrender 1 ourselves one way or the other: either 1 to the personal “satisfaction” hawked by | our modern Babylon, or to universal I ideas leading to Eternal Truth and | Beauty. In the first case we all go exult- I ing to disintegration; in the second, we 'j save ourselves and others with us. Al- I ready the magic pinions and wizard i wheels of our incomprehensibly vast | machine are turning with sand in the joints, and beneath the clanging and the g clamoring more listeners hear the S sepulchral toll of deep-toned bells and S harsh, hollow, cosmic laughter.	§
The Scholastic II

i
$
SCIENCE
TRIUMPHS
AGAIN!
An Optimist Looks At Registration
by Charles Bowen

1
S;
hi
&



Although it has always been more or less traditional to welcome the freshmen with our friendly advice in the first issue of the year, we feel that circumstances demand a break with custom this time, in order to extend some much-needed guidance to the upperclassmen. Contrary to popular belief, it is they who are most in need of help at this time of year. We will try to explain why.
There are no limits to the human power of adaptation, provided that the human in question doesn’t know what he’s adapting to. The freshman arrives on campus with eyes and ears open, apprehensive of everything and certain of nothing. He comes through splendidly. In one short week he encounters the Student Manual, the Bookstore, and the Blue Circle, and yet nervous breakdowns are surprisingly rare. Within the same period of roughly twenty-four hours, he meets his benevolent and devoted rector, Fr. Thumbscrew, C.S.C., and Knute Rockne, All-American. Still, as we have noted, his hold on reality is seldom stretched beyond repair. The reason, of . course, is that he doesn’t know what to expect, and therefore adapts to everything, on the unquestioned assumption that this is what college must be like. You could introduce Peter Lorre as the Dean of Students and Little Richard as leader of the choir without getting much reaction.
In sharp contrast, observe the upperclassman returning to what he fondly believes is the old routine. Shaking the sand of Lake Geneva from between his manly toes, perhaps dabbing a spot of lipstick from his freshly shaven cheek, he alights at the Circle, blithely whistling a bar or two of “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.” He is prepared to slip gracefully into another year of gracious living in our home under the Dome. And what does the poor, unsuspecting clod find awaiting him? Registration.
Where there used to be a little man with a green eyeshade, there are now Stations A through K, schedules, cards,
October 3, 1958
carbon paper, cards, seminarians, cards, professors, mug shots, and cards. Not to mention at least four hundred people who seem to be there for no reason at all but to borrow your pen. It is a small wonder that registration always falls harder on the unprepared upperclassman (who is without a freshman’s healthy terror) and leaves him a quivering hulk.
Since this is the case, it is not surprising that there are a few tragedies each year. This year, for instance, an overzealous seminarian misinterpreted his instructions and tattooed 178 juniors with their student numbers before the mistake was found. An unfortunate • sophomore lost his name card and has
/T

had his name, revoked by the University. All friends of the former Harry Fulp are now directed to address him as “570923.” And two Commerce seniors, whose names will be withheld, have beat expelled for setting up a black-market registration in the Field House, where they promised to clear the whole business up in twenty minutes.
In spite of such inevitable minor problems as these, the new registration procedure is leading us all forward to a greater and more efficient Notre Dame. (“What!” you ask. “Can such a thing be as a greater and more efficient Notre Dame?”) Yes, we are assured by a spokesman for the Office of Accelerated Affairs. In the interest of lighting the path of the students of this University with the blazing beacon of truth, we visited him recently in the buzzing, humming interior of the Main Building to get the story.
We were shown around a large room, in which were several banks of IBM machines all whirring vigorously. Cards slid in a continuous blur past our astonished eyes, and piled up in a rack at one end of the machine, where they were packed into boxes. “What is it doing?” we asked.
“Oh,” replied our host, “not much at the present. We’re just alphabetizing the students by middle names. Not that We’D probably ever need them, but everything else is caught up until this, year’s load comes in from the drill hall. This is just an exercise to break in the new technicians.”
“Oh.”
(Continued on page 26)
17 -
The Diary of Anne Frank by Tom Gannon
When German parachutists came tumbling out of the sky on the morning of May 10, 1940, the people of Holland knew that the “Phony War” was over. Adolph Hitler had once more violated the neutrality of a sovereign nation. The Dutch fought back stubbornly but their defenses crumbled before the Nazi attack. The Germans, with inflatable rubber rafts and pontoon bridges, bypassed the canals and waterways the Dutch had flooded as they retreated. Soon the squat, grey tanks of Hitler’s panzer divisions were clanking their way down quiet country lanes, past picturesque windmills untouched by the devastation of modem war.
The fighting lasted only a few days. The Dutch, shorn of their water defense system, were no match for the mechanized invaders. On May 14, after a merciless aerial bombardment by the Luftwaffe, Rotterdam surrendered. The defenders of Amsterdam capitulated the same day. By May 17, all of the Netherlands was in the hands of the enemy.
Queen Wilhelmina and her family managed to escape to England. The great majority of her people were not so fortunate. They were forced to remain behind under the heel of the conqueror, though the full burden of German occupation was not to make itself felt immediately.
During the first year of the occupation, while preparing to invade Russia, the Germans were careful to avoid cramming national socialism down the throats of the Dutch. Lest a resistance movement be formed, most of the Nether-landers were left to themselves. But it soon became clear that one Nazi policy would remain the same, whether in Germany, or in Holland, anywhere — the locale did not matter. This was the relentless persecution of the Jewish elements in the population.
The Nazis conducted their terror campaign in the open for all to see. Jews were stripped of their possessions and forced from their homes. They were arrested at random on the streets by the Gestapo and deported — sent to work in Germany in slave labor camps, nevei- to see their homes and families again.
For Dutch Jews, the dangers surrounding them made normal life impossible. Those who could, took to hiding... in cellars, in attics, wherever they could find refuge from the dreaded Gestapo.
' One of these Jews was a man named Otto Frank. In July 1942, he took his
18
wife and their two daughters, Margot and Anne, to an apartment in the rear of an office building in Amsterdam. The Franks shared the apartment with four others, the Van Daan family, father, mother, and teen-age son, and a dentist, Albert Dussel. For over two years, these eight people lived together, virtually imprisoned in a garret-like set of rooms. Their only link with the outside was a movable bookcase in one of the offices which concealed the entrance to the garret. Their only contacts were four people, employed in the building, who steered strangers away from the bookcase hiding the refugees, who kept them supplied with food, and who relayed to
them the news of the world from which the Nazis had driven them.
During the time these hunted people j spent in the “Secret Annexe,” as they ? called their tiny refuge, Anne Fr?.nk, who was only 13, kept a diary, a little red-bound book in which she wrote let- . ters to imaginary friends, recounting the everyday facts of her existence. The diary was not a gloomy one, though it ■ might well have been, for there, seemed y to be so little hope for the Franks and their friends. This, however, had little * effect on the spirit of Anne Frank. ।
With perception and understanding
far beyond her years, she wrote of the , constant fear of discovery which beset | the inhabitants of the secret apartment, J of the food supply which steadily dwin-died, of the clothing which no longer fit, of the family quarrels, of the tensions which inevitably develop when the move- j ments of human beings are so sharply } restricted, and of those joyful moments which come to those who will not submit. All of this was told with a youthful good humor and innocence utterly alien to the hatred and fanaticism which ruled the minds of those seeking Anne y and her family.	*
Anne Frank never completed her diary. In August 1944, when she was 15, the Gestapo found the Franks out. All .
eight inhabitants of the “Annexe” were seized and shipped to concentration camps from which only one returned. The sole survivor was Otto Frank, Anne’s father. Anne herself died of typhus in a prison compound somewhere in Germany early in 1945.
But the story of Anne Frank did not end with her death. When her father rereturned to Amsterdam after the war, he found the writings his daughter had produced during the family’s 25 months in hiding. The Diary of Anne Frank was published, and read, and acclaimed as the most significant human document to emerge from the carnage that was World War II. The book was reprinted in dozens of languages, and readers the world over have been captured by the simple tale of the little girl in the “Secret Annexe.”
The Diary of Anne Frank must have preyed on the conscience of the world, the world which had allowed the cancer of Hitlerism to fester in its midst until it was almost too late. Millions of dollars were raised for an Anne Frank Foundation for children and adolescents, for an Anne Frank Home for Unfortun-i- . ate Children in Berlin, for organizations designed to fight racial prejudice. The little Dutch girl had risen above the race of “supermen” responsible for her death.
A play was adapted from the material in Anne’s diary. Like the book, it has been presented and acclaimed all over the world. Like the book it is neither gloomy nor morbid nor moralizing, and for the same reason — Anne Frank did not see things that way. And it is a very good play. The American version ran for ninety weeks on Broadway. Called “as bright and shining as a banner” by Walter Kerr of the New York Herald-Tribune, it won a Pulitzer Prize and the New York Drama Critics’ Award.
This coming Sunday, October 6, with a Broadway cast, featuring Francis Leder, Lilia Skala, and Pauline Hahn, will present The Diary of Anne Frank in O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. It might be worth seeing.
Francis Lederer
Lilia Skala Pauline Hahn in
THE DIARY OF ANNE FRANK dramatized by
Frances Goodrich and
Albert Hackett
O’Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary’s College
Oct. 5 — 2:00 and 8:00 p.m.
Ticket office: Room 239, Moreau Hall
Matinee prices:
Orch. $2.75, $2.00; Bale. $1.75, $1.25
Evening prices:
Orch. $3.25, $2.75; Bale. $2.00, $1.50
At the Movies
COLFAX
Stage Struck: A high-budget treatment of the country girl who makes good. Fine performances by Susan Strasberg and Henry Fonda combine with good directing to make an entertaining picture, although the story won’t surprise anybody.
GRANADA
The Reluctant Debutante: This story of a couple’s attempts to launch their daughter in London society is one of the funniest to come along for some time. Rex Harrison and Kay Kendall are the stars, but for the freshmen there are John Saxon and Sandra Dee as the teen-age sweethearts. This one has something for everybody.
PALACE
Frankenstein 1970: The most penetrating analysis of the direction of Western society since Orwell and Huxley.
Spy in the Sky: Who’s got the Sputnik?
RIVER PARK
Kings Go Forth: Frank Sinatra, Tony Curtis, and Natalie Wood in a very good picture which touches on interracial themes. The background is the War in southern France.
No Time for Sergeants: A movie which for once is as funny as the play. Andy Griffith stars as the biggest foul-up in the whole Gol-durned Air Force.
STATE
Manhunt in the Jungle: The moving story of Mary Patricia Lovely and her heroic attempt to find a husband at Notre Dame, set against the exciting background of a Friday night mixer.
Dangerous Youth: Will give juvenile delinquents a chance to see how their British contemporaries are doing.
Dunkirk (Oct. 5): A very fine British film which proves that there can be more to a war movie than Aldo Ray killing 462 Japs with his bare hands.
Wild Heritage: Typical teen-age family forges westward. Stars Maureen O’Hara, without oasis.
AVON
Schedule not available in time.
WASHINGTON HALL
Seven Brides for Seven Brothers: Wholesome.
—Charles Bowen.
October 3, 1958
19
I
!(
I
I
J
I
NSA Convention
Report
by
Bill Graham and Denny Shaul
The eleventh National Student Congress of the United States National Student Association, held at Ohio Wesleyan University, was once again a scene of great discussion, and the battleground for the conservative and liberal student viewpoint. Notre Dame was one of the over 350 schools represented.
Our delegation was composed of Denny Shaul, Bill Graham, Mike Halpin, George Clements, Armando Loizaga, John Patton and John Keegan. Shaul and Graham also attended the student body president’s conference prior to the actual congress, Loizaga was a delegate to the conference on foreign student affairs while Clements attended the student editorial affairs conference.
The United States National Student Association, an eleven year old union of American students, represents more than 400 American colleges and universities and more than one million students. It’s function is to represent effectively the American student’s view before other national student unions, the United States Congress and educational committees and councils in this country. Additionally, it is a focal point for all student governments, an institution to aid and instruct them.
Notre Dame’s participation in the organization has always been on a highly reciprocal basis. We have adopted national programs to our own campus; we have benefited from campus visits by the national officers; and we have been able to gain a better perspective on our own work and aims through our association with other schools. In addition, we have always thought it our responsibility
20
to give competent leadership to the organization on a regional and national basis. We have felt a great responsibility to the organization for imaginative and intelligent planning and programming. Finally, we have looked upon the organization as an opportunity to show that the Catholic student, especially the Notre Dame student, thinks individually, constructively and intelligently.
The highlight of each year for the organization is the ten-day student congress held each August on a Midwestern campus. The theme of this year’s congress is broken down into four commissions — student government, educational affairs, international affairs and student affairs.
Each commission is divided into subcommissions which discuss particular aspects of student life concerned under the broad commission title. The subcom-
BOB KILEY
missions meet for the first three days of the congress and draft resolutions to be enacted by member schools for the national staff. These resolutions are then taken to the commissions where they are again discussed and voted upon. If passed, they are taken to the plenary floor where they are subjected to the action of the entire congress.
Nonetheless, the congress plenary would be impossible without the subcommissions and commissions. Usually the more interesting subcommissions are those concerned with federal aid to students, desegregation and academic freedom. These are the areas where a clash comes between the liberal and conservative student viewpoint. At the eleventh National Student Congress the liberal forces did predominate, although their views were watered-down by the actions of the conservatives and “middle-of-the-roaders.”
Nonetheless, a strong resolution was passed on desegregation as well as an
equally strong and detailed one on federal aid. Some sparks flew on the question of academic freedom in regard to its principle, conscientious objectors, and secret informing, but generally the tone a was quieter than was the case in past years.	'
The disappointment of the conservative element manifested itself in the “declaration of conscience” issued on the last night of the congress. The conser- , vatives herein admitted to being out-maneuvered on the floor and deplored < the lack of vigorous, two-sighted debate. They appealed for better precongress ' orientation and more plenary floor time for discussion.	<
The institution of the student body presidents’ conference (hereafter refer- * red to as SBPC for more than obvious reasons) arose out of a realization that -there are a multitude of problems and questions unique to this position. It was thought that a conference such as SBPC would offer the opportunity to the head of student government to gain a better understanding of these problems and to i learn some of the necessary skills involved in their solution. These would aid them greatly in the effective admin- * istration of a successful student gov- 1 ernment.
This year there were more than 250 participants in the SBPC from every -section of the country, many of them coming from non-member USNSA schools. The four-day conference was keynoted by Dr. Charles McCracken and featured addresses by several educators and administrators. The areas explored during the discussion sessions included “The Student’s Role in College Policy Making,” “Improving Student-Faculty-Administration Relations,” and “The Internal Dynamics and Functions of Student Government.”
For the second year a student edi- J torial affairs conference was also held . in conjunction with the summer congress. This conference was attended by 80 college editors and staff members from USNSA campuses. The freedom of the student press within the educational community was the primary topic of consideration.	.
The conference on foreign student af- ; fairs ran simultaneously with the other 4 two pre-congress meetings. Students from America and many countries of the world gathered to discuss in particular the problems of foreign students in this country and what American students can do to aid in their solution. Notre Dame has sent a delegate to COFSA for the past two years, and the ideas they have gained, together with those from the international commission, have formed the basis for the institution of an entirely new and broadened program in regard to foreign students and the promotion of international awareness. '
AU of the work at the congress, the • discussions, debates and drawing of res- | olutions carried on in the subcommis- 3 sions and commissions, culminates in action on the plenary floor where the 3 entire congress, 1200 strong, meets to 3 amend, pass on, or refuse the policies Q
The Scholastic U
NFCCS Convention
Report. . • by Bruce Babbitt
The fifteenth annual summer conven-. tion of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at the Sheraton !- Palace Hotel in San Francisco was high-। lighted by the election of Mike Phenner, । a senior at Notre Dame, as national ' president of the federation.
" Mike, formerly social action affairs | vice president of the federation, suc-I1 ceeds Joseph Harris of LaSalle College I in Philadelphia. Mike is from Appleton, Wis., and at Notre Dame has been ac,, tive in debate, has served as president of the human relations club, and is a Dean’s List student.
The delegation representing Notre Dame consisted of Phenner, John Hay-i' ward, chairman of the Catholic Action Study Bureau of NFCCS, Tom Greene, [ president of the Fort Wayne region of NFCCS, Bruce Babbitt, Jim Bose, Bill SScheckler, Dave Offutt, Tom Cahill, and Fr. Dan O’Neil, C.S.C., group moderator.
Regular business sessions of the Congress were culminated in the policy res-| olutions session, at which the Congress I took a stand on current issues of na-■ tional interest. In the field of race reft lations, the Congress passed a resolution charging the Eisenhower administration with delay in enforcing the Supreme Court decisions outlawing segregation in public schools. The resolution directed letters to President Eisenhower and the . Attorney General urging immediate action on these counts.
The convention also urged the passing of the National Defense Scholarship Program, which was not acted upon by the 86th Congress, in order to provide greater national strength in the scientific and technological fields.
The most important resolution presented by the Notre Dame delegation dealt with partisan political groups on Campus and was passed unanimously. The resolution urged that, in light of the serious lack of political awareness on many college campuses, “the NFCCS strongly urge every Catholic College student to encourage, initiate, and participate in forms of partisan political . activity on his campus.” Other resolutions presented by the Notre Dame delegation condemning the African segrega-tional policy of apartheid and urging student governments to work toward expanding sources of scholarship aid were passed.
At its final banquet, the federation * presented its first annual Archbishop Noll award to be given annually to an f outstanding Catholic Layman. The I award, named for the former Arch-1 bishop of Fort Wayne who was a great promoter of the importance of the role of the layman, was given to Godfrey P. Schmidt, prominent New York lawyer and one of the three recent court ap
pointed monitors of the teamsters union. In his speech Schmidt emphasized the great need for a cleanup in the unions and stated that the average union member is begging for union reforms. Schmidt also emphasized the need for concise Catholic thinking on the changing aspects of labor-management problems, and assailed those who try to make rigid moral issues out of such problems as the right to work law.
Taking place simultaneously with the Congress was a conference of student body presidents from more than 100
MIKE PHENNER
member colleges. The participants exchanged programming ideas and discussed such problems as censorship of the college press, the role of student government in the academic realm, and general areas of student responsibility.
The main business session of the Convention was devoted to reports by the national officers on the year’s activity in the various fields. The college and university relief administration reported the distribution of over $7,000 of aid to needy foreign students which was collected on member campuses. The group also collected sizeable amounts of books and clothing for distribution, and to date has obtained more than 30 scholarships from member colleges for students from the southern states.
The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Commission reported more membership in the national program of religion teaching and lay apostolate work in public schools and other areas.
The Catholic Action Study Bureau,
which operates at Notre Dame, has in . the past year published three booklets on such areas of Catholic Action as “The ~ Lay Apostle.”. These booklets are obtainable at the campus YCS office by anyone interested. The literary commission has in the past .year continued its annual project of publishing “Supernaculum,” a literary anthology of the best writing submitted by Catholic college students.
The summer travel program during the past year was highly successful and included tours to Europe and Mexico. Publicity on the tours for the coming year will soon be out on the Notre Dame campus. All NFCCS tours are arranged at minimum expense and are substantially cheaper than regular commercial tours.
The Congress also heard a report from its delegate to the Pax Romana world congress in Germany last year. NFCCS -is a member of Pax Romana, the worldwide movement of Catholic Students.
As its next convention site, the Congress chose St. Louis. By convention time next summer the national officers hope to execute the new national program which was presented in San Francisco. The main point of the new program will be an emphasis on Latin America, including such aspects as scholarships and other forms of aid, lay missionary work, study programs, and foreign student programs on the individual campuses.
The question is frequently heard on campus—is NFCCS worth all the dues and effort? Is it really accomplishing anything? Of what value is it to the individual student? One is too often . prone to answer these questions in terms of complete optimism or utter cynicism. Somewhere in the middle lies the true NFCCS. The organization was founded approximately 17 years ago for the purpose of providing an exchange of information between member schools through publication - and correspondence and to promote the work of Catholic Action and the student apostolate. It functions through its national officers who are directly in charge of a series of commissions, each of which deals with a particular field such as student government or human relations. The federation is _ divided into a series of geographical regions which are each organized in a. similar manner. On each member campus, there exists a senior delegate and a junior delegate whose duties are to-provide the campus clubs and other or- . ganizations with the services which the-federation has to offer such as published . studies and reports.
Specific activities of the federation on the Notre Dame campus include such, effective programs as CCD and the Catholic Action Study Bureau, which have-already been mentioned, the Annual Advent symposium which draws students^ . from all over the Midwest to discuss^ . various topics, and the annual Midwest student leaders’ conference in the spring. ’ In addition NFCCS cooperates closely^ with many campus clubs in their van-
(Continued on page 25)	.
October 3, 1958
Student Government Effectiveness
by Denny Shaul
The problem in starting any article for the Scholastic on Student Government is one related to restraint. It is nearly impossible to speak on this topic without being either too cynical, or too idealistic. Because Student Government is a growing, progressing thing, we who are in it often think of it in terms of what it can be, in terms of what we hope that it will be someday.
But this of course is a no more realistic appraisal than that of cynics who claim that we are a do-nothing organization. Any look at Student Government must involve scrutiny of its shortcomings as well as accomplishments.
It is no longer legitimate for us to write off our failures as due to inexperience. We have been organized effectively, in varying degrees for over ten years. Our prime failures are totally within
In answer to a request from the SCHOLASTIC, Denny Shaul, student body president of Notre Dame, here outlines the general student government program and attitude for the coming year.
ourselves. Too often, we have failed to use effectively the powers that are ours. Too often, we have failed to keep you informed of what we are doing. Too often we failed to ask, and, worse, failed to care what your opinions were.
It is rare in an article of this type that any attempt at a definition of Student Government is made. And there are those who claim that no such definition exists. Student Government is the representative student organization on campus. It is meant to be a force in two fields. The first field is totally its own. This is the sphere as yet not clearly delineated in which students have the right to rule, so to speak. Here it is agreed by both administration and students that students can do the best job in running activities peculiar to this realm. -
Examples of things in this field are nearly all campus social activities, stud- : ent-sponsored academic and cultural activities, student-run athletic and religious activities. In these things the University administration has delegated direct responsibility to the students. The student in turn has delegated these responsibilities to Student Government. This delegation comes about in the main because of three reasons: a belief that
22
students are responsible, a belief that students can run certain activities better than any other group on campus, a belief that by this delegation the University has in no way shirked its responsibility to properly educate the student, to uplift him morally and to mature him.
Now, there is another sphere for Student Government. This is an advisory sphere. In areas outside of the actual control of Student Government, it does have a right, even a duty, to pass on student feelings and opinions to the administration. It should not expect that all its recommendations in this sphere will be accepted. Many times we are not in the position to see all the facts. On the other hand, it does have the right to expect that its findings will be considered and respected. And, it should not happen that all its recommendations should be disregarded. Thus student opinion on exam schedules, on permanent hall residence, on honor systems and societies, on all night lights, should all be taken into consideration by the administration; and it is Student Government that should represent this opinion.
The problem, of course, is not nearly so simple as the lay-out of these two realms might seem to suggest. For where does one realm begin and end? And when are students reasonably, responsibly, asking for a right that is theirs, and when are they blundering into realms far beyond their depths?
We can never be sure where one realm begins or ends. We can only ask that students be responsible, recognize their own limits, and that the administration will sincerely recognize student responsibility and add responsibility to responsibility.
There is one thing that is essential: that you elect a competent hall government. No matter how well we are organized on the top (it sometimes appears we aren’t at all) it means little unless we are organized on the level that affects-you most directly. Additionally, it is your hall representatives that come most directly in contact with your rector and thus make the impression of Student Government for him.
So now, after all that, specifically what are we doing this year that is worthwhile? We are continuing the Student Enrollment Development Committee, a committee that last year spoke to a total of over 3,000 high school juniors and seniors about college in general and the advantages of a Notre Dame
education in particular. There will be more Mardi Gras scholarships—we now have three freshmen here on these grants and we also aided upperclassmen with $3,000 in grants.
There will be a new series of studentfaculty lectures in the hall. The first Student Government lecture series on vital issues is coming into being. The first two all school dances will occur this fall. The first is October 24 with Bobby Christian. The second is November 14, with Ralph Marterie.
We hope to establish a vital issue series consisting of a discussion a month on topics of nation-wide interest. We hope that we will be able to shift some more responsibility back to the halls.
We hope to encourage a shift back to the hall from the standpoint of both activity and of responsibility. We will continue the ordinary small services such as running a dance nearly every week, running buses to trains at vacation periods, and to St. Mary’s.
Additionally, we hope to co-ordinate our Foreign students, especially the proven student. We hope to make a more responsible contribution to the academic process; through hall level discussion, through seminars. We hope to handle all of your requests, to work on an honor system at least in the Commerce School.
All through the year we hope to bring up new, positive things. We hope you 'will-follow'our progress and suggest and criticize. Most of all we hope to keep you awake, interested in events here and out in the world. The Notre Dame man is not meant to be, nor should he be apathetic.
Student Government here is always on trial. It has its good years and its bad, and in the end you determine that. Sometimes it will inevitably seem small things, like running buses must seem. But at times it should seem big and vital. Always it should seem beneficial. Remember that it is not a movement to take over the school, just one to better your life here. That should have your interest; we hope it will.
The Scholastic
It was 1:15 by the time stubby Mr. Fancher hurried up the final steps to the third floor, halted for a moment to catch his breath, and headed toward the thick wooden door at the end of the corridor. As he pushed through into the cooler, airy room he was greeted by his colleagues, Kenny, Jespherson, and Lawes. He nodded, mumbling a comment on the lack of elevators in the old building. Someone chuckled, as though he had been waiting for the cue.
When he had taken his place behind the long table, scattered now with sheafs of paper, dossiers on the various students, a couple of ashtrays, he glanced from one to another of the board members. Kenny, a tall bulky man whose clothes fit too tightly, seemed a little out of place here, Fancher thought, he would make a good cop; Jespherson looked like a college professor, asthenic, with graying hair combed straight back; there was nothing special about Lawes, a man, like himself, who would have been lost in any group. Once he had tried to make friends with the man.
Fanchei’ reached for his manila folder, opening it carefully, to get a general idea of the next applicant. His finger slid down the list and stopped just after the white space with LUNCH mimeographed a little in from the margin:
1:30 Paul T. Naugh History 91.4 Colonial Society and Glee Club.
This one line was the summary of the other papers clipped together. Behind this were academic records, letters of recommendation and reference, a letter of application typed neatly on personal stationery.
Fancher pushed at the cuff of his shirt, revealing his watch—1:21. There wasn’t time enough to check the rest of the references again so he decided to reread his copy of the letter of application. The blue letters gave name, school address, and city.
Gentlemen:
. . request consideration for John M. . . furtherance of education . . . . . . interested in . . . my extracurricular . . . merit since I . . .
. . . family . . .
His eye ran over the paragraph, picking out the more important words.
“Say, Tom, it’s one-thirty, don’t you think we ought to get started?” Jespher-son’s voice gnawed into his consciousness.
Tom Kenny, chairman of the interviewing board, stood up in the semi-clumsy way of some big men, “Yes, the sooner we start, the sooner we’ll finish.” He walked to the door, opened it, and went through. There were a few mumbled words of introduction outside and the young man entered.
At first, Fancher was a little surprised at his paleness as he came in but then realized that the afternoon sun had shifted to the other side of the building, throwing the corridor into a gloom which contrasted sharply with the
October 3, 1958
Debt to Himself
by BOB SEDLACK
white shirt and face. He was above average height, hair combed back, a long face and a confident air about him. Altogether, he might stand out, the stubbier Fanchei’ thought; this is good — right after lunch—when we’re fresh.
Paul, I’d like you to meet Mr. Fancher, Mr. Jespherson, and Mr. Lawes,” Kenny repeated as Naugh approached the table and shook hands, passing perfunctorily from one to another, then taking his seat.
“We want you to feel completely relaxed,” Kenny droned as he took his place at the end of the table, “this isn’t the Inquisition,” he added with a grin, repeating the words which had just slipped through Fancher’s mind. “Now then, I see you’re a history major.”
“Yes sir, that’s right,” he answered too quickly. The young man sat forward on the chair, not leaning on the back, nor making use of the armrests, yet comfortable, hands folded in his lap.
“Could you tell us why you chose this particular field and what your interest is in graduate study?” It was one of the formula questions, a starter or gapfiller.
“Well,” he began, as if he’d been ex
pecting this question and didn’t want to blurt out a reply which would give himself away, yet, in hesitating, did anyway, “I’ve always been interested in history, ever since I was quite young, you know, the sort of romantic interest that starts with seeing old battlefields and traveling around the country; when I came here I decided to major in history because. I’d heard a lot about our history department.”
Fancher watched him closely, immediately a little suspicious about his references to “old battlefields and traveling,” thinking that the student before him was probably well off—good marks through high school and no need for a scholarship to college, probably just trying to save his folks a few bucks so they could buy him a car.
The suspicion had carried him beyond the confines of the room, as Fancher remembered some of the wealthy young men he had known in college.. Jim Val-leau....
“The Colonial Club’s an organization,” Paul Naugh was saying, a slight quaver in his voice, “of history majors — aah, you don’t have to be a history major hut -almost everyone is,” he stumbled a little, “interested in colonial history, its causes and effects, and especially in American colonialism.”
“What’s its purpose and how’s it run?” Fancher asked bluntly. The other board members turned, a little startled, and he felt the warmth above his collar, in his face.
“Well, you see sir,” and Naugh seemed to swallow the “sir,” out of distaste or, perhaps, because it did not sound relaxed enough, Fancher thought, “the object is as comprehensive an understanding of that period as possible. It’s run as most clubs of this type are, a paper is delivered at the beginning of each meeting on some phase of the colonial period. We’re trying to get a - better cross section of students by considering the politics and economics of the times too.”
“I see, um huh,” Fancher nodded, trying to be appreciative. He was pleased that Naugh had answered his questions so well; it not only made a good impression on the interviewers but also took him off the spot.
“What was your paper on?” Jespherson inquired with some interest. He was a Ph .D. in history.
“William Pitt. . . .” there was a moment of silence after the answer, before Naugh began to explain further. . .“I approached him by considering what would have happened had George III listened to him.
Jespherson smiled wryly. “Well, what do you think would have happened? America still a British possession?”
He would ask something like that, a Ph-D. doesn’t mean he has the right to use that tone of voice.
“No, I don’t think so,” he answered, confidently fingering the knot of his tie and becoming serious. “His suggestions seem makeshift, there would have been other troubles sooner or later. And re-
23
member, the older Pitt died in 1778 anyway.”
Jespherson’s face showed only a mild annoyance as he clenched his teeth on the stem of his worn brier. “I see, yes, that’s always the way it seemed to me.”
“Doesn’t it get awfully boring,” asked Lawes, “concentrating on such a small segment of history?”
“No______at least I haven’t found that to be true so far. Actually there’s an awful lot of history there, the causes go back to the Renaissance and the effects, well, are still noticeable.”
“I see you’re also in the Glee Club,” Kenny said, trying to change the subject.
Naugh blushed a little, “Yes, I am,” he affirmed. “I just joined this year.”
Until then, Fancher had forgotten completely about his own undergrad experiences in the band. He remembered how he sometimes hated to admit that he played the flute and the paradox that never ceased to bewilder him: alone, he liked to play an instrument, liked the idea of knowing something about music —and in a big crowd, at a dance or a
24
concert, he was pleased with himself, his uniform, the association with a group. It was only with a few people that there seemed something odd about it. He wondered if Naugh felt that way too, in front of four men.
“.. .then over Easter vacation’ there was a trip through the Mid-Atlantic states, Pennsylvania, Jersey, Maryland.”
Yes, Fancher thought, this tall young man before him seemed a little like Jim Valleau—Montana, copper or oil or some damn thing, at the shore on week ends raising some kind of hell, phone calls from girls during the week, around suppertime when I’d be leaving for work in the faculty cafeteria. It was always the worst during May.
“Mm-uh,” Kenny was answering, his eyes fixed on the student’s face, fulfilling his duty as chairman. The room now seemed very somber, Fancher mused, only half listening to the talk as the tiny dust was filtered slowly through the parallel slats of light coming from beyond the Venetian blinds.
Kenney realized this too: “Paul,” he said, “will you tell the board your rea
sons for this fellowship request and your plans if you are awarded it?”
As soon as Kenny had begun the sentence Fancher saw that Naugh, too, realized that this was the question, the question upon which the whole outcome of the interview, possibly the pattern of his life might depend, as he watched him shift sideways, then forward in his chair.
“First of all,” he began calmly, “I don’t have any scholarship or grant of any sort even though I did well in high school. My folks both work and they managed to put my older brothers and me through college, but not without a lot of sacrifices. There is,” he hesitated, “a certain satisfaction in being able to do it without anyone’s help, without feeling indebted to anyone, yet now that I’d like to go on to graduate school I really feel that I should be given recognition of some sort.”
.. .Jim Valleau faded as a more recognizeable person came into focus...
“Don’t get me wrong, I’m still not a hardship case,” he twisted his mouth as the words came out, “my folks could probably afford to pay my way, now that my brothers are through, but I feel I’ve done quite well in college and I think there should be some reward other than having my name on a list in a comer of the Dean’s office.” He stopped suddenly, without dropping his voice, as though determined to share his feelings yet now realizing that, by sharing them, he was losing the confidence engendered by privacy.
The board was silent for a long moment until Kenny repeated the second part of his question. “Do you have any specific plans for the future if you do receive the award?”
“No—not exactly—you see, I decided before I even began inquiring about fellowships, that I would not make any plans. . . . But I do intend on specializing in early American history and I have checked a few schools with that in mind.
“Fine.” Kenny turned to the other board members: “Unless you gentlemen have something further you’d like to pursue I think we can end here.” ,
“No.”
Lawes shook his head.
“Just one thing,” Fancher addressed the young man, “what do your parents do?”	,
“My father’s a bookkeeper and my mother works in a Savings and Loan.”
Kenny stood up. “You know the pro- ' cedure?” he asked.
“Yes, thank you.” Naugh stood up, nodded toward the board and walked across the maroon and flowered carpet.
II
The interviews had ended at 4:30 and the board members were discussing the various candidates. Among the three whom they had interviewed in the morning there was only one who had met the board’s approval.
“What about Naugh—the tall one we
The Scholastic
talked to right after lunch?” Kenny directed the question to no one in particular as he opened the manila folder. “Pretty good average, did well in the required courses,” he said absently as his eyes travelled down the sheet before him.
Jespherson was the first to reply. “Mmm,” he shrugged his shoulders, indicating mediocrity, “I wasn’t especially impressed...”
“He knew his history though,” Lawes said, half teasing Jespherson.
“Yes, but after all we’re not looking for William Pitt specialists.”
“What the hell,” Fancher said angrily, flushed, “check his other marks too. He did well his first two years before majoring—no snap courses either. I definitely think we ought to consider him.”
NFCCS
(Continued from page 21) ous projects related to such topics as human relations and foreign students.
From the above it is easy to see that NF is an effective organization. Many people do not realize the significance of NF because they try to compare it without qualification to the National Student Association and judge it by this standard. However this is a limited comparison because NF is concerned mainly with work which is oriented toward the realm of Catholic Action and does not operate as a cross section of national student opinion as does NS A.
Nonetheless, there are valid criticisms of the federation, the most consistent of which are of the organization’s inability to reach the campus level effectively and its occasional lack of specific and vital programs. The future of the
October 3, 1958
His voice had become calm, now that he wanted to sway the other members.
“We can come back to him later,” Kenny interposed, trying to avoid friction.
“Let’s decide now. After all,” Fancher put in smoothly, “we’ll just be more tired later on.” He was confident that he could get the approval of the required three-fourths. “What do you think Jim?”
“Yes, he seemed pretty sharp to me.”
“How about you Bill? Sorry I burst out like that, too much coffee.”
“I didn’t say I was against him. Sure, he gave a good interview.”
There was no need to ask Lawes, for he nodded his approval immediately.
Fancher was pleased; it was the first time he could pay the debt to himself.
THE END
federation is bright—if we as individual students become more aware of this organization and attempt to engage our better leaders in the interest of the federation.
On the Notre Dame campus there has been a notable lack of freshmen participation in the federation activities. To make a vital and progressive organization we must engage the interests of more underclassmen. The personal rewards of this work are great but the amount of work is even greater. At Notre Dame there can be no question of whether or not we should support the federation—as one of the leading Catholic universities we are looked toward for leadership, and to provide that leadership is an apostolic duty. This year Notre Dame has begun to undertake its part of leadership and responsibility. This can continue and the federation can reach greater heights—with your help.
Bus Service Planned For Football Dances
The schedule for the Victory Dances and the Dixie Shuttle serving them has been announced by Crane Day, student government social commissioner.
Last week’s Indiana dance was very successful with 952 couples . attending. This was more than twice the number at the first dance held last year.
The next Victory Dance will be after the Army game on Oct. 11, in the Drill Hall. The following Saturday it switches to the LaFortune Student Center. After the Purdue game, the dance celebration is in the Drill Hall. This is the week end of Oct. 25.
The Student Center is the setting for the dance on Nov. 8, after the Pitt away game. North Carolina’s Victory Dance is on Nov. 15 in the Drill Hall. The last one is for the Iowa game and will be in the Student Center on Nov. 22.
The Dixie Shuttle will operate foi-every Victory Dance. It consists of bus service between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College, the Holy Cross Central School of Nursing, and St. Mary’s Academy. For the fare of 50c per couple, buses will go from the Circle to the schools and return. After the dances they will go to the schools and return to Notre Dame.
This is a considerable saving over the standard taxicab rates. Several buses will leave the Circle at approximately 7:30 pjn. the nights of the dances.
NSA
(Continued from page 20) and resolutions introduced. It is here that student opinion is crystallized, and the actions of the national officers given direction. The experience of a plenary session is difficult to describe. Feeling the enthusiasm generated by this mass gathering as they discuss problems in education which confront our day is inspiring to say the least.
The highlight of the eleventh National Student Congress was of course the election of Bob Kiley as national president for the coming year. Bob is a 1957 graduate of Notre Dame who was vice-president for student government in the association this past year. He was one of the stalwarts in our own student government during his undergraduate days, and many of us remember the inspiration and guidance which Bob gave to the individuals with whom he worked, and the significant contribution which he made to the growth of student government at Notre Dame.
The office of president of the association is a full time, salaried position and places upon the holder the responsibility for representing the views of the American student and for the operation of the many and varied functions of USNSA. Bob’s election to two separate offices, in two consecutive years within the organization, shows the high respect he has gained in the student community.
25
"Optimist"
(Continued from page 17)
“When we started,” went on the official, “we only had one little machine in that comer. Then there was another, and another, and eventually we had to face the necessity of consolidation. Right now we’re in the process of hitching them all together to make one big omnipotent machine.”
“Ah.”	.	.
“We’re doing it in sections. Every time one section is added to the rest, we have a little Golden-Screw-Tuming ceremony, with tea and little sandwiches.”
“When,” we inquired, “will the last screw be turned?”
“Our motto is ‘Everything all screwed up by I960.’ ” He led us over to a little door, and opened it. We were confronted by a mass of electronic viscera and several technicians.
“It’s . . . very nice,” we commented cautiously. “What does it do?”
“This outfit here is part of an apparatus which will take the fingerprints
niiims UNARY uri NIK SUP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
SPECIALS FOR STUDENTS
Chests of Drawers ------ $5 and up
Books.... 1 Oc Lamps..._50c and up Knee Hole Desks ________ $5 and up
Set of Encyclopedias .... $5 and up
Radios, TV Sets, Lounge Chairs, Single Beds, All kinds of other furniture bought and sold.
THE WHITE ELEPHANT SHOP
2216 Mishawaka Ave.
WANTED
Responsible students, male or female to call on residence halls to demonstrate and sell daily used product. Earn $100-$200 extra a month. Write for details for immediate start. P.O. Box 497. Indianapolis, Indiana.
26
and front-and-side-view photographs of a student, while simultaneously feeling the bumps on his head. This information will be sifted through an electronic device which analyzes his character and predicts what rules he will break and how often during the semester. This is in turn punched in IBM code on a card which is fed through another machine, which distributes the appropriate penalties.” He beamed. “It entirely eliminates the Board, leaving the Fathers free for more important duties.
“But over here is the best machine of all. The student’s class cards, IQ, and character analysis go in at this end, the professors’ personality ratings go in at that end, and Bingo! all the grades come out right here. Does in twenty seconds what used to take a whole semester.”
“Amazing!” we gasped. “This means that ...”
“That’s right! Registration will take about a week, but after that you’ll be free to start your Christmas vacation.”
Dazed at the prospect of a Christmas vacation beginning in October, we groped our way out the door, and staggered for the stairway. “Come back,” cried the official anxiously. “Don’t you want to see how we’re eliminating the Dining Hall?”
We really wish we had stayed. But at least we feel sure that we have given our fellow students some measure of reassurance that there is a higher reason directing the destiny of our University, and that real progress is being made. Onward and Upward.
Repercussion (Continued from page 6) $25, to the Student Senate President, Denny Shaul. If the student body has to pay for the damage they do, perhaps they will be more careful in their conduct.
Since we can’t afford to let our bandsmen be injured, and since the Student Senate can’t afford too many bills of this sort, I am forced to tell you that if the Band continues to be pushed around, we will not march around the campus, but will assemble in the Field House before the rally begins. And if we are molested and trampled in the Field House and when leaving, we will not appear at the rallies at all. This would be very regrettable, and we certainly don’t want
NEED A CHEST, BOOK CASE OR RECORD CABINET?
Buy Them Unpainted! Save J4 or More!
Free and Prompt Delivery
Williams Paint & Furniture
New location
312 SO. MICHIGAN
it, but we will be forced to it if student |
behavior doesn’t improve.
1
Another point about which not only 'the band, but many members of the ad- j ministration, faculty, and student body ' are irate, is the disrespect paid to the ; Alma Mater by certain students, through . their whistling, applauding, and noisemaking while it was being played and $ sung. At every other university in the l country, the Alma Mater is loved and respected, and when it is performed all i other activities cease and the students sing. How much more reason have we here to love and respect Alma Mater Notre Dame, “Dear Mother, Our Lady”. If the Alma Mater is again insulted as it was last Friday night, the Band will immediately stop playing until the noise and disturbance ceases.
I’m sorry I have to bring this up to -you, particularly since it is not your fault and you have been doing such a fine job on the rallies so far. I will be very happy to work with you and Denny Shaul both in my capacity as Band President and Student Senator in trying s to educate the student body to the problem and to correct it.
The Band has always been famous for j its possession and promotion of Notre Dame Spirit; be assured of our continued cooperation in promoting that Spirit.
Sincerely,	-
HERB RIBAND,
(Ed. note — This letter was sent to the SCHOLASTIC for publication by Denny Shaul, president of the student body.)

Gentlemen of Notre Dame:
The Notre Dame Spirit is a wonder-, ful thing. But too often it is thought of as mere noise and show. Recently it has come to mean discourtesy and rudeness. The last pep rally was an example of this.
It is important to remember that the rules for gentlemanly behavior do. not go out the window at a pep rally. Real spirit does not mean constant interruption of the speaker. It doesn’t mean a lot of indoor acrobatics. ■
Last Friday evening these things seemed to be the rule. We even had a minor accident which might easily have been a much more serious one. I know the majority of you are in no way sympathetic to these incidents, and that is why I am writing this letter. We hope you will see to it that they are not repeated.
The pep rally at Notre Dame is a fine tradition. It is our way of showing support for the team that represents us so well on the field. Over the years it has been an opportunity for all of ns to break away from the books for a while. It is a chance to show visibly the unity that we like to think is Notre Dame. All of these things are too worthwhile to be spoiled by a moment’s inconsideration on the part of just a few. I feel sure you won’t let that happen.
In Notre Dame, DENNY SHAUL,
The Scholastic
J
j

5
I
-
t

j Miami Stockbroker Grants School $100,000; I Money Earmarked for George Coury Fund
| A gift of $100,00 from Miami stockbroker George Coury will be used to
II establish a new student loan fund at the it University. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, J C.S.C., said that the Coury Fund will I provide loans to Notre Dame students ■ who otherwise might have to withdraw r from school because of financial diffi-| culty.
I Coury, who was graduated from ’ Notre Dame in 1928, faced such a ’ prospect in his senior year, but was able to complete his education with the help of a loan. Coury’s gift is among the first benefactions made under Notre ? Dame’s new ten year, $66,600,000 devel-l( opment program.
1 A total of $5,000,000 of the projected
, Ex-Dean Passes Away Prior to Fall Semester
This summer marked the death
of
Ir’Dean Emeritus James McCarthy, one of 11 the organizers of the Notre Dame Col-B lege of Commerce.
il Professor McCarthy joined the faculty a- in 1921 as an instructor in foreign trade.



Two years later he became the first Dean of the Commerce school and saw it more than quadruple during his 32-year term.
He resigned in 1956 to establish his own management consultant firm and to assume an executive vice-president position with the Gerity Broadcasting System of Michigan.
Another faculty death was that of Rev. James P. Smyth who was an associate professor of religion and connected with the program for administrators. Father Smyth, who received his master’s from Oxford, was a specialist in psychology. His death was quite sudden and unexpected.
The Army announced the death of Col. Letzelter who had been professor of military science and tactics here at Notre Dame from 1954 until 1956. He was a West Point graduate and connected with
the 147th Infantry Regiment at Polk, La.
Three student deaths occurred the semester closed in May.
Camp
after John


O’Brien, the son of Mr.. and Mrs. Matthew O’Brien, was killed in a shooting accident. John, who was from Cleveland, would have been a sophomore in the College of Commerce. He lived in Breen-Phillips Hall last year and was the student who won the Thunderbird at the Mardi Gras carnival last spring.
Two brothers, one a Notre Dame student and the other an incoming freshman, drowned at Lake George, N. Y. They were Bill and Michael Mowery. Michael was to have returned as a sophomore in the College of Commerce. They were the sons of Edward J. Mowery, a Pulitzer Prize winning newspaperman from Forest Hills. N. Y.
October 3, 1958
goal has been earmarked for student aid. The University is also seeking $27,000,000 in endowment for faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for new buildings, $11,000,000 for research, and $5,000,000 for administrative purposes.
A native of Lebanon, Coury came to the United States in 1911 at the age of five and spent his early years at Hc-Curtain, Okla. According to Coury, his father first settled in Oklahoma after walking there from New York City over a period of three years with a peddler’s pack on his back.
Coury was graduated from Subiaco Preparatory College for Boys, Subiaco, Ark.,in 1924 and entered Notre Dame the following year. He prepared for his investment career by specializing in corporate finance, banking, and stock operations in the University’s College of Commerce.
Coury began as messenger for Blyth and Co., a Chicago investment house, eventually becoming chief statistician. He later was associated with Shields and Co., another investment firm and became president of the Self Stoking Stove and Furnace Co. of Chicago. Following four years of World War II service as a Navy lieutenant commander, Coury operated a chain - of launderettes in Florida while also serving as president of Eichor Inc., a Chicago electronics firm.
He is a member of the New York Stock Exchange, a director of the Miami National Bank, and heads the George Coury Land and Oil Co. which has extensive real estate holdings in South Florida.
Exact details of the fund’s administration will be announced at a later date.
Student Plan Improved By Continental Casualty
The Continental Casualty Company of Chicago has sanctioned increased benefits in the voluntary student Accident and Sickness Plan. These increases will not affect the premium of $21.00 for twelve months* coverage.
The hospital room and board expense allowance has been increased from $10 per day to $15 per day. The allowance for nurses’ fees, when confined to a hospital, has been increased from $8 per day to $25 per day. The maximum for the nurses’ fees has been increased from $200 to $250 per illness.
SWIMMING MEET
Dennis Stark, coach of the Notre Dame varsity swimming team, announces an organizational meeting for students interested in swimming. This meeting will be held Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial. All interested swimmers are invited to attend.
Bobby Christian Plays j For October Dance
Bobby Christian, Mercury Record’s fastest rising band-leader, will be host to the Student Government Dance, Friday night, October 24 from 9 pan. to 1 ' : aan. in the LaFortune Student Center. The dance was organized by the student government to replace the previous years’ college dances and will be held . the week end of the Purdue-Notre Dame football game.
Bobby Christian has been known for several years as the foremost percussionist in the country, and his band is . famous for the new life he has put into the percussion section. His latest album . for Mercury, “Mr. Percussion,” was released this fall following the stereophonic album, “Stereo,” he recently cut. His . hit songs have been “Grasshopper Jump” and “Crickets on Parade” among others.
A limited quantity of tickets at $4 _ per couple goes on sale Monday night, October 6, from 6:30 to 10 pan. in the Student Center. Football tickets may be bought and hotel and private room reservations may be made at the same time. The usual 2 aan. permissions will be given, announced dance chairman Ted Dudley.	.
Military Maa Hold Sole Of 'Autumn Review* Bids
Tickets for “Autumn Review,” this year’s Military Ball, will be sold in the . Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday from 7:30 until 9 pan.
The price, which includes the favor, is $4. The dance will be held in the Student Center with music being provided by Johnny Palmer and his orchestra, according to Pat Toner, the general chairman.
Date tickets for the Duke game may be purchased at the same time.
Mass Opens (Continued from page 11) indispensable for the achievement of true wisdom.”
This realization of man’s spiritual nature is the only basis for the free world’s stand on human dignity against the materialism of Marx. Notre Dame should render valuable service to the struggle by its insistence on the true nature of -man, he said.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., was • celebrant of the Mass. He was assisted - ' by Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., and Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C. The University faculty marched in a colorful . academic procession from the Administration Building to the campus church ? for the rites.	-
Notre Dame’s president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., who usually ~ officiates at the ceremonies formally opening the school year, is attending the second conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna as Vatican City’s permanent reprer sentative.	\	..
Moot Court Sets Finals For Night of October 18
The final argument in the Law School Moot Court Competition will be Saturday evening, October 18, in the Engineering Auditorium.
The case to be argued involves a corporation which allegedly violated a United States statute which prohibits an expenditure of corporate funds in connection with a federal election. As a member of a trade association the corporation contributed to the cost of an association - sponsored telecast which
specifically endorsed a United States Senator running for re-election.
Counsel for the argument will be Dana Devoe, Robert Mone, Milton Munk, and Altero Alteri, members of the senior class.
Dean Joseph O’Meara has announced that the Court hearing the case will include the Honorable Sherman Minton, retired Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court; the Hon. Marion C. Matthes, Judge of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals; and the Hon. Henry Graven, Federal District Judge for the Northern District of Iowa.
The faculty and students of the University are invited to attend.
WSND Makes Revision To Meet Students' Wish
Responding to the desires of the student body, WSND has overhauled its morning schedule, devoting the 9 to noon spot to music suitable for studying. *
New programs appearing on this fall’s ' schedule, which began September 22, are “Penthouse Pops,” 2 to 5 p.m., and an hour of classical music, 1 to 2 p.m. •
Warren Albright, station manager, said that the decrease in classical music and the greater time devoted to popular music is a result of the poll taken last spring among the student body.
KGDL KROSSWORD No. 1
ACROSS
1. Marilyn’s first picture
8. “Are you Kool _______to Krack this?”
11.	A place for cold potatoes
12.	Way to speak 14. Half of nme 15. Vintage suds 17. Willie in person 19. Sign of success 20. Dog star 21. French connective
23.	Canadian import, liquid
24.	What they do in Virginia
25.	Hollywood word for “good"
27. Ballplayer (abbr.)
28______Lynne
29. First word of "Star-Spangled Banner’’
31. Willie’s pond 33. Products of Madison Ave.
36.	Oranges and hotels grow here (abbr.)
37.	Pogo in person 41. Coney or Crete (abbr.)
42. What an 8 cylinder “bomb" does to gas (2 words)
44._____and behold
45.	A tree;
part large,
47. Don_____s
49. Cool adjective for Kool (2 words)
52.	It rides on many ahorse
53.	Part of pajamas
54.	Cenozoic or Jazz 55. Kind of bone
DOWN
1.	Matrimonial agency
2.	The Barefoot Contessa
3.	Marlene’s trade-mark
4.	Bug; destrengthen
5.	Legal pickup artist
6.	High spot
7.	A shad’s legacy
8.	Lucia di Lammermoor’s boy friend
9.	What a fraternity pin does 10. Student’s nightmare
13. Where to meet Irene Dunne
16. First name of a cowardly beer
18. Kind of less
22. Where to find blazers
26. Bake with crumbs or in a cream sauce
30. Kind of been
32. Backward psychiatrist
34.	Traveling secretary
35.	How Kools fed to your throat
36.	Who’s on-----3
37.	Kind of wise
38.	Letter finals
39.	What she says when pinched
40.	Drinking place
43. Erskine Caldwell’s property
46. Melodic tool (jumbled)
48. Ballplayer’s report card
50.	Most unpopular word on a date
51.	Jayne’s kind of appeal
11
15
21
25
28
49
52
53
19
ARE YOU KGDL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
20
24
26
27
36
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience
in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mild, mild menthol.. .for a cleaner fresher taste all through the day!
Answer on Page 30
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR. OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER1
29 30
40
33
48
10
•to&wResh )
KGDL
with
k®l
KGDL
SUITE**
MKONBffliOL KIMC-SIZE

The Scholastic

IRISH OVERCOME HOOSIER SCARE; SMU NEXT

by BOB SCHAEFER
Coach Terry Brennan’s football Irish invade the Texas State Fair tomorrow afternoon to take on the Southern Methodist Mustangs. The Irish will be after their second straight win this season and their fourth in a row over two seasons.
Last Saturday a case of first game jitters, combined with an inspired Indiana Hoosier eleven, caused the Irish offense to bog down for three quarters before two late touchdowns gave Notre Dame an 18-0 victory.
For three quarters the underdog Hoosiers battled the Irish on even terms, giving the Irish only two good scoring opportunities. One was on the first play after the opening kickoff when Jim Crotty recovered a fumble on the 21-yard line. Notre Dame, however, was unable to get moving and lost the ball on downs.
The second opportunity came in the second quarter when pass interference was called on Indiana and the Irish got the ball on the Hoosier 17-yard line. From there it took sophomore Bill (Red) Mack just three tries to score, the last being an 11-yard jaunt off right tackle.
It wasn’t until the fourth quarter that the Notre Dame offense finally got going. Nick Pietrosante sparked a 71-yard drive which was capped by a twisting 20-yard run by quarterback Bob Williams. On this drive the Irish finally looked as good as the preseason rating given them. The final score came after Monty Stickles recovered a fumble on the seven-yard line of the Hoosiers, and then caught a TD pass from Williams.
Tomorrow’s opponent, SMU, lost a thriller to Ohio State last Saturday, 23-20. The highly rated Buckeyes had
TOM KOENIG
Mustang guard and team captain
NICK PIETROSANTE BULLS HIS WAY UP THE MIDDLE
Irish fullback Nick Pietrosante (49) springs past two Indiana tacklers in the third quarter of last Saturday’s contest. Key blocks by halfback Pat Doyle (32) and guard Jim Schaaf (on the ground) enable Pietrosante to move into the Hoosier secondary for a seven-yard gain. His smashes into the line in the second half powered the Irish to two fourth quarter touchdowns as the Irish wore down the Hoosiers, 18-0.
their hands full outlasting the wide open, razzle-dazzle offense of the Mustangs.
The SMU offense is sparked by passing sensation Don Meredith, who set an all-time record for pass completion percentage last year by connecting on 71 out of 102 attempts. Against Ohio State he completed 19 out of 28 for 213 yards, passing for one TD and scoring another himself. His understudy, Billy Dunn, proved just as adept by completing two out of three for 20 yards and one touchdown.
Meredith was a sore spot foi* the Irish all afternoon in last year’s 54-21 Notre Dame victory. He was finally removed from the game late in the third quarter after a bone crushing tackle by Frank Geremia.
SMU has been picked by the experts as a top threat for the Southwest conference crown, along with TCU and Texas. They are certain to improve on their four-won, five-lost, one-tied record of last season, with 21 returning letter-men, only four less than the Irish.
Leading the returnees is team captain Tom Koenig, an outstanding guard. Koenig was one of the bright spots in the ragged SMU defense last season. Other top linemen include tackles Gary Ferguson and Lee Yokum, starters last year, center Max Christian, and guard Bobby Lovelace.
Backs Tirey Wilemon, Jim Welch and Sophomore Glynn Gregory will help give the Mustangs a more powerful running game than they had last season, when they were held to less than 100 yards rushing in half of their games.
Henry Christopher will most likely be the other end judging by his performance against the Buckeyes last . Saturday. He caught two TD passes, one a spectacular catch in the end zone for SMU’s final score, and was the receiver of several other key throws from Meredith and Dunn.'
The Mustangs- use several variations of the “T” formation. Coach Meek, in his second year as head coach of SMU, uses the straight “T,” the winged-T and operates from both a spread “T” and regular spread formation. Meredith is usually under the center on “T” plays and runs tailback on the spread plays. In order to give his team a double passing threat, Meek often puts Dunn in at quarterback and shifts Meredith to either halfback or fullback.
The favorite receivers of Meredith are Christopher and Gregory. These two caught a'majority of the passes in the Ohio State game. Both Meredith and Dunn are also dangerous men on the quarterback option, Dunn making 23 and 12 yards on the first scoring drive last Saturday.
October 3, 1958
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
PARKAS AND WINTER CLOTHES You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
“FORUM” APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED
The Commerce Forum, a campus discussion group, is now accepting applications for new members. Letters of application are to be sent to 221 Sorin. Additional information may be had by consulting the Bulletin Boards.
KGDL ANSWER
HAVE BUSES ... WILL TRAVEL ...
Departmental Field Trips	'
Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
Co^dXnxU. Bula
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg. '
C 0
A
E|N|D|A|RMEIN]U|F
N

DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY •
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
E
A|G
R
S
ENOUGH TO
G R
E
E
S
V
A
L
E
EIRMPIEIN
G
U
N I
A
Dl
R
E
dB o|h
E
&
N A L S

AID
TlSlU P
H
A
L
B
I S
L
E
EISIH RA
Switch -from Hots
“'RWTURBOW
\PPTOMITRI«T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
to Snow Fresh KGDL
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
i
The two fastest deodorants in the world!
Old Spice Stick Deodorant is built for speed. Plastic case is applicator. Nothing to take out, no push-up, push-back. Just remove cap and apply. Prefer a spray? Old Spice Spray Deodorant dries twice as fast as other sprays! Choose stick or spray...if it’s Old Spice, it’s the fastest, cleanest, easiest deodorant you can use.	Each 1 , .
plus rax
by SHULTON
30
£
The Scholastic j
I
Soph Paces ND Open
I With 54 Holes To Go
i George Mack, a sophomore from Port-J land, Ore., grabbed the first-round lead ’ in the annual University Open Golf fl'i Tournament last Saturday wit a a one over par 72. Senior Frank Crowe is right behind Mack with a 73.
The Open is a 72-hole medal play _ tournament that is played in the fall of each year. The 2959 Notre Dame var-"V sity golf team will be composed of the I top 12 upperclass finishers in the Open. !’ The freshmen arc competing for the 15 spots on the freshman squad.
Mack’s round came on identical nine-hole scores of 36-36. His scove<ard in! eluded three birdies as did Crowe’s, but Crowe picked up five bogies, one more than Mack. Crowe was out in 38 but came back with an even par 35.
1 Two juniors, Terry Lally and Christy I Flanagan, remain in strong contention ?xwith 74's. Both golfers were members | of the varsity golf squad last year and t are in position to catch the leaders be-| fore the remaining 54 holes have elapsed. |c ’ Tom Grace and Payne Palmer, who finished one and two, respectively, in the I recent Freshman Golf Tournament, are J tied with Flanagan and Lally with 74’s । also.
| Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the Irish golf coach who runs the Open each year, has established a cutoff point for
■j the tournament. The field has been cut
to the low 36 players and ties for second-round play. The final 36 holes of the tournament will be limited to the low 18 golfers.
In general the scores last Saturday were high and several members of last year’s varsity team failed to break 80. Principal casualty was Gary Webster who skied to an 86. Webster’s card showed three sevens.
The next 36 holes will be played over the Burke Memorial links this week end, Oct. 4-5, and the tourney will wind up on Oct. 12 with the final 18 holes.
The leaders:
George Mack, 36-36—72; Frank Crowe, 38-35—73; Terry Lally, 38-36— 74; Christy Flanagan, 39-35—74; Tom Grace, 36-38—74; Payne Palmer, 38-36— 74; Phil Schuster, 39-35—74; Jim Kennedy, 37-38—75; Joe Leslie, 40-36—76; Jim Stahl, 39-37—76; Dick Manns, 37-39—76; Russ Beaupre, 40-36—76; John Walsh, 39-37—76; Jim Thompson, 40-36—76.
MIXER TONIGHT IN “CENTER”
A sophomore mixer will be held tonight in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center. The remainder of the building will be open with dancing to record music. Tomorrow night will be open house.
Any student organization wishing to use the facilities of the Student Center is invited to do so by making reservations in the manager’s office.
TIME OUT
It took an inspired and greatly improved Indiana team to show the Irish and their followers that no team can be regarded too lightly. The Hoosiers were obviously keyed up for the game against Notre Dame and played the Irish to a virtual standstill for the first three quarters of last Saturday’s game. Indiana’s line was determined and bottled up the Irish backs for a good part of the game. Nothing can be taken away from an Indiana team that played its hardest and held a heavily favored team to a close victory.
But a good part of the poor showing should be attributed to the widespread lack of concern about the Indiana team. People figured that Indiana was no good just because they were not supposed to be. But the Hoosier team showed that they were not impressed by the newspapers and the preseason polls. They wanted to beat Notre Dame and they came pretty close to doing it.
While Notre Dame does not play either Oklahoma or Michigan State (probably the two best elevens on last year’s schedule) this fall, the schedule is no easier than last fall’s. In all probability, Indiana is not the best team the Irish will face this year but if the Irish don’t improve quickly they may find themselves far from the lofty spots in which they were placed by almost all of the early football polls.
Every team the Irish face this fall is good, good enough to beat them, and no team will want to beat Notre Dame any less than Indiana did. Perhaps this game last Saturday, while it did not result in defeat, will prove to everyone that the Army game is over one week away and that the games against Purdue, Navy, Iowa, and all the rest are far away. And none of the teams are going to be so impressed by Notre Dame’s national ranking that they will forget how to play hard solid football and that they want to beat Notre Dame. And, since they aren’t going to forget, the Irish and their fans better not forget either.
Not the least of the teams that wants to beat Notre Dame is Southern Methodist. Last year, in the closing game of the season for the Irish at Dallas, the Irish unleashed a scoring barrage of 54 points in burying the Mustangs, 54-21. But SMU’s performance last Saturday against Ohio State showed that this year’s Mustang team is much improved over last year’s squad. They, like Indiana, did not take to heart what the newspapers said about their opponent.
Not only will the Mustangs have the top passer in the country in Don Meredith going for them and the remembrance of last year’s lopsided defeat still in their minds tomorrow, but they will also have the enthusiastic backing of all the Texans who will be attending the ND-SMU game as the final event in the week-long Texas state centennial celebration. While it is true that the Irish overcame a 50-year celebration at Oklahoma last fall, the week-long affair at Dallas certainly works in the Mustangs’ favor.
Notre Dame will probably go into the game as the favorite but the Irish have always had trouble beating SMU in the Cotton Bowl and will meet certainly one of SMU’s best teams of the last few years there tomorrow. If Meredith finds a weak Irish pass defense or some more Irish complacency or if he can unveil an unexpected potent running attack, SMU could hand the Irish a defeat which would not be looked for at Notre Dame but which is fully anticipated in Dallas. After the respective showings of the two teams last Saturday, a Notre Dame loss is quite a clear possibility and the Mustangs are perfectly willing to crystalize that possibility.
PEP RALLIES
At last Friday night’s pep rally in the Fieldhouse, Coach Terry Brennan reminded the cheering fans what happened the last time a pep rally was featured by the repeated chant of “First!” or “We’re Number One!” That was two years ago before the 1956 season’s opener at Dallas against Southern Methodist. Then as this year the Irish were ranked high in the preseason polls of the sportswriters but they lost to SMU 19-13.
This “Number One” chant does not belong in the pep rallies since the most important matter is not the national ranking but the game the next Saturday and this is always the case. The only time the “Number One” chant is apropos is before the last game of the season when a victory in that one game could have some bearing on the mythical national championship. But to be able to sing it then, the students must urge the team to victory in each of the games before that one. No ranking is ever more important than the very next game. If we win the games, the ranking will come.—T. T.
October 3, 1958
NOTRE DAME SAILING TEAM
Sailors prepare for fall season
Sailors Capture Fourth At Nationwide Regatta
The Notre Dame sailing team, along ■with the University of Michigan sailing team, represented the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association in the national championships held at Newport Beach, Calif., during the week of June 16-21 earlier this summer.
In the competition for the individual title and the Henry A. Morss Memorial Trophy, the Irish sailors captured fourth place in a field of eight schools.
Top individual honors went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology which wrested the collegiate title and the Morss Trophy from the national champion the two previous years, the U. S. Naval Academy.
In the final standings, M.I.T. accumulated 229 points, Michigan 211, Navy
WHEN IN CHICAGO
Visit the
BLUE NOTE
OCT. 1-12
Earl Bostic Quintet
OCT. 15-NOV. 9
Dakota Staton and
“The Master Sounds”
NOV. 11-23
“The Divine” Sarah Vaughan
NOV. 26-30
Harry James and his Band
DEC. 3-14
Stan Kenton and his Band
DEC. 17-JAN. 4
Duke Ellington and his Band
The Blue Note
203, Notre Dame 179, Brown 169, Stanford 157, Occidental 156, and the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy 108.
The Midwest did not return empty-handed, however. The Irish teamed with Michigan to defend successfully the Sir Thomas Lipton Memorial Trophy won by the combined Wisconsin-Michigan team at Annapolis in June, 1957.
In the first challenge round the Midwest turned back the Middle Atlantic team and New England’s combination whipped the Pacific Coast by identical 3-0 scores. In the final round the Midwest vanquished the New Englanders by taking the first three and sixth races for a 4-2 victory in a best-of-seven series.
In competition for the individual title, the Irish sailors got off to a poor start and found themselves all but scuttled in sixth place after the first day of the three-day series. The Irish advanced their position each of the two following days but were unable to make up the first day’s disadvantage.
The sailors had moved into fifth place by the end of the second day and they passed Brown on the final day to nail down fourth place.
Making the trip to the West Coast were skippers Ron Meissner and Lou Morgan and crew John Kroha, John Miller, and Leo Gorman.
Graduated from last year’s squad are five top skippers—Meissner, Morgan, Bernie D’Almeida, Tim Rice, and Ray Nelson. The efforts of these five men brought Notre Dame to the position of a perenially strong contender in Midwest and national sailing competition.
This week end the Irish will play host at their own invitational regatta and on subsequent October weekends will visit Wisconsin and Purdue and will compete in the Timme Angsten eliminations at Purdue in early November.
NCAA Harrier Champs Face Marquette Friday
Notre Dame’s cross-country team, the 1957 NCAA champions, will open theii' season Oct. 10 against Marquette, here at Notre Dame on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The harriers have only three returning lettermen but Coach Alex Wilson is hoping for another successful season with the help of some promising sophomores.
Veteran captain Mike Haverty is the only senior among the returnees. Haverty was the first Irish finisher in the NCAA championship effort last year, gaining the 19th slot. Also returning to the squad this year are juniors Larry Burns and Galen Cawley. Burns and Cawley finished sixth and seventh, respectively, in the IC4A meet last fall.
The sophomores joining the squad this year are Ron Gregory, Dave Wehlege, Dennis Johnston, Dan Rorke, Chris Monahan, Chuck Fernald, and Johnny Johnson.
In capturing the NCAA crown last year, the Wilsomnen scored 121 points, six less than second place Michigan
Tyler's Picks of the Week
TONIGHT
USC over North Carolina TOMORROW
Navy over Boston U.
Pittsburgh over Minnesota Auburn over Chattanooga Duke over Illinois Georgia Tech over Tulane LSU over Hardin-Simmons Miss. State over Tennessee Indiana over West Virginia Colorado over Kansas Northwestern over Stanford Nebraska over Iowa State Oklahoma over Oregon Purdue over Rice TCU over Arkansas Notre Dame over SMU
GAMES TO WATCH
Army over Penn State Michigan State over Michigan Oregon State over UCLA Alabama over Vanderbilt
State. The Irish had lost twice previ-1. ously to the Spartans in other meets. The harriers finished second behind State in the IC4A championship on the । Van Cortland Park course in New York | and dropped a dual meet to the Spartans, 21-34. These were the only losses the Irish suffered last year.	'
Notre Dame won two dual meets last year, besting Indiana and Marquette, and took the measure of Michigan, Western Michigan, Central Michigan, Bowling Green, and Loyola in a hexagonal meet. The harriers also took the Indiana State championship and won the Central Collegiate Conference crown.
The Irish will meet the same teams again this year with the addition of Wisconsin. All home meets will be held on the Burke Memorial course. All the meets will be four miles in length except the IC4A which will be five miles in distance.
ALEX WILSON AND MIKE HAVERTY Display 1957 NCAA trophy
32
The Scholastic
News Briefs
This Sunday will begin a duplicate bridge tournament in Room 1 D of the LaFortune Student Center at 1:30 p.m. On the second Sunday of each month there will be play in masterpoint competition. Lessons will be given to beginners and non-duplicates.
o o
The Educational Testing Service’s tests required by many graduate, law, and busi-r ness schools will be administered on the first three Saturdays of November. The fall examination for graduate study in business will be on Nov. 1, the Law. School admission test will be the following Saturday, and the graduate record examinations will be administered Nov. 15.
Future dates for the business test are Feb. 5, April 11, and July 25, 1959. For the law examination, the dates are Feb. 21, April 18, and August 1, 1959, and the graduate record examination dates in 1959 are Jan. 17, April 25, and July 11. Information concerning these examinations and ■sample questions can be obtained by mail from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey, or from ^campus advisers.
*	co
“October Jubilee,” the fall version of the “Winter Carnival,” will be repeated again this year. Rosalie Holland, the General Chairman, feels certain that it will be as successful as last year’s was.
’ The affair will begin at 3 p.m. tomorrow 1 with such games as touch football, a hula
hoop contest, and sack races. The dinner will be from 5 until 7 p.m. Chicken is the menu. There will also be a bonfire.
The evening will close with a dance from 7 until 10:30 p.m. Music is to be provided by Bertoncini and his Lettermen. Almost 500 couples are expected to attend.
Besides General Chairman Holland, on the Commitee there are arranging chairman Maurine Hogan and publicity chairman Fran Rufe. Assisting them will be Betsy Fineran, Nancy Pugh, and Cilla Holland.
Other include Dotty Nebel, Sue Metzger, Jane Simpson, Fran Voorde, and Marylin Morrissey.
c o
Jerome L. Crowley, Jr. has been named to the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Crowley graduated from Notre Dame in 1931 and serves on the advisory council of the College of Commerce.
M. Joseph Foley, Michael O’Neil, T. Edward Carey, and W. R. Sidenfaden, have been appointed to the advisory council for liberal and fine arts.
Michael W. McCarthy accepted an appointment to the advisory council of the College of Commerce, and Carlos Tavares is a new member of the advisory council for science and engineering. New to the Law School advisory council is Thomas F. McDonald.
o o
Upperclass hall officers and senators along with the off-campus senator will be elected next Thursday, and nominations for these offices close Sunday.
Grace Captures Frosh Golf; Keenan, Farley Cagers Win
Golf and basketball tournaments highlighted the Blue Circle’s sports program on September 20-21 for the newly arrived freshmen.
Tom Grace, a first-year student from Lathrup Village, Mich., won the golf tournament with a 36-hole medal score of 71-74—145. Payne Palmer, from Phoenix, Ariz., finished second with 150.
The tournament was originally scheduled for 18 holes but Rev. George Hol-derith, C.S.C., coach of the Notre Dame golf squad, selected Grace, Palmer and ten other golfers to play 36 holes. Father Holderith wanted to observe the players likely to be on his freshman squad.
Of those who played only 18 holes, Jim Mark’s 75 was the top score. Mark and Grace both received trophies for their victories.
Chairman of the weekend golf event, Pat Martin of the Blue Circle, estimated that 175 golfers participated. Martin also stated that 250 freshmen took part in the basketball program. Each floor of each freshman hall was represented by a team. The squads were entirely self-organized.
The 22 teams played in two separate tournaments, one on the courts behind the Book Store and one behind Breen-Phillips Hall.
Bulova
WATCHES
3 WAYS TO BUY:
•	CREDIT (With No Intoroit) • • HANDY-CHARGE
•	LAYAWAY
YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND
o OMEGA WATCHES
////A////7Z
Watches
\rtcarvec DIAMOND RINGS
PATEK PHILIPPE
The Worlds
FINE WATCH REPAIR
GUARANTEED 1 YEAR — By — TED MILOSERNY
121 W. WosNngton	Mu Ct 4-1311
; October 3, 1958
33
by BOB GHELARDI
the students’
prospect
Nothing in my generation impresses me so much sis the lack of emotional anchorage, the insecurity and distrust of social forces that lingers in its members. And this is a time when assurance and dedication are at an obsolute premium. Such books as The Organization Man seem to hold universal fascination for college students. We eye the giant organization life, repository of our futures, with mixed anxiety and gratitude. However we scathe it among ourselves, in the deep and honest privacy of our hearts there are few of us who do not nurse dreams of executive or organization life. Other worthwhile pursuits are largely ignored. The art of conversation is dying, the ability for enthusiasm seems dead, and social life resembles an ant colony in its regimented variations.
We can find real cause for alarm if we seriously consider the problems of our generation. The world is divided into two camps. The Communist camp directly controls at least half of the world population, has it enslaved in a political abhortion of terror and suffering. And a good part of this population is voluntarily enslaved, for communism is a religion that promises almost the same prizes as our own, recognizes the same fundamental issues, and pusues its ends with a diabolical intensity reminiscent of the early Christian persecutors. Communism promises Hie inevitable release from human suffering, not in some world after death, but right here on terra firma. It offers a creed to live by that demands from its members the last act of self-immolation. It offers History as a god with intelligible goals, and it promises chastisement for failure. To watch this religion as it operates is one of the fascinating privileges of our times. Intelligent Communists know that they must maintain fanatical missionary zeal. Peiping leaders boasted to Tito that they are not afraid of a war which would destroy 300,000,000 of their people, and this boast is corroborated by the Quemoy crisis.
What do we find in the West? To start off, here are the words pf a high State Department policy-maker quoted in Time, Sept. 22, 1958: “It’s a question whether the world’s got back into the Munich mood. ... It is almost true that the United States is the only nation in the world not in that mood.” '
34
In Europe, devastated by endless war, witness to the horror of a concentrationcamp universe, faith in the future is dying. Frederick D. Wihlelmson, a prominent European thinker, says of the European:
... he cannot be tricked into seeing in the new the possibility lor a fuller existence; he has known the full life, and the conformist pleasures of tomorrow are to him but ashes, ashes lacking reality, the reality of suffering as well as of joy, of poverty as well as luxury.
This outlook is symptomized by the postwar philosophies arising in Europe. The greatest problem in these cults is that of commitment to an ideology. A man who can throw himself with uncontained vigour into a cause, while he certainly is a bit absurd, is nevertheless to be envied. The hero of a famous novel, The Stranger, written by Nobel Prize winner Albert Camus, remains in aloof and sardonic isolation through every calamity. It seems that the salvation of the world is not going to be accomplished in Europe.
The last chance is America. We have the resources, the people, the power, and, not least, the optimism .to face the unique crisis. Unfortunately the optimism is too naive, refusing to recognize issues. We are content to restrict our efforts to impersonal economic “aids.” We insist on our congenital right to hedonism, to egotism, blindness, and slothful cynicism. We rest our hopes in the organization and believe almost any propoganda spread in the guise of organized opinion.
The official American outlook is not natural It probably springs from our historical success, our lucky deliverance from large calamities, and our pioneer vigour. But the naivete is from calculated irresponsibility. As Walter Lippman has pointed out, we have thrown over our fundamental ideals, the deposit of Christian wisdom that earlier thinkers, contemplating between invasions and . wars, scraped up and handed to us on a silver platter, and we have regressed to a pagan pursuit of pleasure.
Consider the issues further. Two-thirds of the present world population is undernourished. These, two and a half billion souls are expected to double
within the next fifty years, a greater 4 numerical increase than in the pre-ceeding five thousand years combined. , The Asian mass, largest single group, is awakening fitfully from ages of brood- t „ ing slumber. They are starved, oppressed, exploited, and patronized. When this population bursts on the world like a bomb, as it must without proper en- 3 couragement, who will feel the shatter- . ing force? The masses of today are > loking for answers. We worry no less than is minimally decent. The Commu- | nists promise to supply solid answers and > are heard. It doesn’t matter that these | within the vise are crying for release; i those without are crying for salvation, J ‘ and they must have it.	M
Most disturbing of all, the Church is M in agony again. In South America other w religious are making conversions by C thousands. In Poland the Church is | waging the final war of death with a I Communist regime, in China she appears to have lost altogether. As for us, the J United States has one of the lowest s rates of missionary activity; France1 ? surpasses us almost ridiculously, and t even France seems half abandoned to a p vain skepticism.	Ej
What all this adds up to is a situa-tion that our generation is not at all prepared to face. Here is something 1 from the Fordham Ram, April 24, 1958: $
... we know our pop music is forced down our throat by a cynical communications syndicate, that our giant corporation economy differs from socialism-communism more in name than in the actual repositories of power — but it isn’t worth getting excited about. What is our reaction to this state of affairs? Not an impassioned attempt to set it right, but rather cynicism and resignation. A slavish mentality has engulfed us .. . .
While I agree that we are very likely to fail ourselves, I do not agree with the writer’s point of view, his suspicion of social forces and other people, and his funk in the face of the future. In our economic system the great concerns feel more and more obligated to the stockholder and the general public, and less and less to themselves.
Young people of today are seemingly (Turn back to page 16)
The Scholastic
THEY SAID IT COULDN^T BE DONE BUTHffEtrfS!
“Couldn’t be done, couldn't be done." Hardly anyone dreamed that 50,000,000 people would be able to enjoy a “Western”... in their own homes... on the same evening! But that’s how many Americans watch “GUNSMOKE" . . . TV’s most popular program, every Saturday on CBS-TV.
PUFF BY PUFF.,.
TODAYS L&M GIVES YOU...
DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!
Change to L?M and get ’em both. Yes, today’s If M gives you the unbeatable combination of less tars and more taste! EM’s taste is so full and rich... it’s a rare mixture of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. And you get If M’s patented* filtering process — assuring you of less tars in the smoke, puff by puff, than ever before.
MUUM BUU MO Ml AMEM TAKE AN UM BNEAK ON OUNEMOKE MT, NOiXTWOOO
•1958 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
* Only INK has U. S. patent number on the side of the pack. This patent (No. 2,805,671) covers l?M’s exclusive process that electrostatically adds extra filtering fibers.
1
I
I