RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
HOW HIGH THE GARTERS? You don’t need ’em with these Interwoven argyles. Robert E. Hen-eault, Arts and Letters student from Danielson, Conn., gives them a little tug to emphasize the snappy design and smooth fit. Come in and see our fine selection of Interwoven cottons, in thousands of designs ($.55 up). Bob’s sport shirt is a Donegal Fitzhugh, “the sport shirt that fits you.” Available in many new spring shades ($3.95 up). His slacks are the cool, fine-woven Botany gabardines ($18.50).
foi
“Campus Clothes”
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
10 6-108 MAIN
2
130-132 WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
Battered Bengaleers
Editor:
What has happened to the Bengal Bouts? In the past years they served the purpose of providing funds for the Bengal Missions in India, offering the students the privilege of witnessing these exhibitions and displaying good sportsmanship and personal ability. The bouts this year have filled the first two requirements but the third is in doubt.
Can you say a man is showing ability after having fought the two previous nights and then being required to fight a third night in order to reach the finals? I’m referring to the fact that three of Thursday’s fighters were fighting their third consecutive bout. How much punishment can a man take? It just doesn’t seem fair to them nor does it conform with the purpose of the bouts.
Why not distribute the fights over a longer period of time, or, perhaps, elim
inate a percentage who cannot measure up to certain standards? Let’s not wait until someone is seriously injured before altering the situation.
Nick De Simone 327 Sorin
An Irate Fan
Editor:
I have read “Splinters from the Press Box” for the last time. My heart is filled with pathos for the student body, the University, and the Scholastic after reading Mr. Hany Monahan’s enlightening column this week (March 25) in which he quotes several sports writers on the scorn they have for the poor sportsmanship of our basketball team, and then proceeds to accuse them of moanitis. What’s to become of the aforementioned groups if the likes of Monahan are permitted to expound in so biased a manner.
A loyal follower of the basketball team am I, having attended every game and cheered as fanatically as the guy beside me. However, a consideration of the
manner in which the team plays ball can readily explain the reactions of many groups such as the crowd at Indianapolis and the quoted sports columnists. I don’t blame the team. They’re a fine aggregation who, being in there to win, get a little excited at times and lose their sense of values. The blame falls on those who are responsible for this brand of basketball and those who could put an end to it. . . .
Mr. Monahan . . . should pack his gladstone and seek greener pastures at a school where people are not adverse to closing their eyes to the facts.
Pete Friday 257 Badin
I agree that Notre Dame played “rough and rugged” basketball, but will Reader Friday agree with the St. Louis scribes that the Irish eagers were “surly,” “sullen” and dangerous to the health of our opponents, and that Catholic sportsmanship is in poor hands? If he does then maybe he had better pack and leave, because he certainly can’t be happy here knmving that thugs of that
Get Set for the Spring Dances!
"2 for I" Rates Now In Effect
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SPRING DANCES
Freshman Ball_______
Senior Ball_________
At St. Mary's
Senior Ball_________
Informal Dance______
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the exclusive GEORGE DAVIS WAY and save 50%.
:	At Notre Dame
= Law Ball____________April 22
E K. of C. Informal___April 29
| Junior Prom _________May 6
E Monogram Ball________May 7
345 Lincoln Way West, South Bend
TLDIOS
.May 14
.May 30
.May 13 :
.May 14 =
Will you miss out on the fun this spring because you don't know how to dance? Why wait? Put yourself in the hands of a George Davis expert. Learn the Fox Trot, Rumba, Jitterbug, or any other popular dance. It's easier, it's quicker, it's fun — the exclusive George Davis way. In just a few hours you'll be able to gain confidence, relax, and be the envy of your friends. Phone 4-0801 for an early appointment or come in. Open daily 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Saturdays 'til 6 p.m. FREE half-hour trial lesson to prove to you that you can learn to dance.
Alice and George Davis
April 8, 1949
3
type represent Notre Danie on the basketball court. I think there was enough of that dangerous combination of halftruth and exaggeration in the St. Louis charges to merit our criticism.—Sports Editor.
Thanks From Pakistan
Editor:
The Bengal Bouts of ’49 are history, made and in the making. Once again, Notre Dame men fought and proved themselves, won and lost. They did more than just fight, they gave all they could so that others in far off Eastern Pakistan might receive all God holds for them.
The Notre Dame spirit? It was there for all to see: in the ring as well as in the stands. A sport was portrayed; and in the doing another achievement was made possible. Holy Cross and Notre Dame men of other years in India are proud of today’s Notre Dame men.
Through the Scholastic, Holy Cross in Bengal — Bishop, Priests, Brothers and Sisters — send their thanks to you men of Notre Dame. Congratulations to the victors, appreciation to those who did not win. The Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council, rate high praise for their promotion. Christy Walsh did
a top service as did Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C., always an inspiring leader and counsellor. To all of you, students at Notre Dame: the trophy of victory that always symbolizes a deed well done — for God, for souls, for Notre Dame.
Gratefully,
Thomas M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C. Procurator for Holy Cross in Eastern Pakistan
More Than Four
Editor:
As a spectator of the Freshman-Sophomore Managers’ game, I dispute your statement that no Freshman scored more than four points. Ed Lanshe scored all nine of his team’s points in this game at the half, and scored 13 points altogether. In the Frosh-Senior game, he was limited to four points, for an evening’s total of 17.
Bob DeOrssey 140 Farley
Out of This World!
Editor:
Does Hollywood know about him? I’m talking about that WONDERFUL man who appears on the inside of the front cover (Mar. 25). I think he’s just absolutely out of this world. Reading Esquire too. How manly!
I may be just a high school girl, but I don’t have to have the Dome fall on me to make me realize that he’s just about the cutest thing I’ve ever seen.
How about another picture of William Fletcher Daniels, and maybe another story, too? Just look at that curly hair. I’ll bet he even has a Southern accent.
Joan O’Neil
Central High School
Scholastic vaguely suspects that this is a phoney.—Editor
"Splendid" Heckling
Editor:
The word “splendid” has something to do with “brilliant”; there was nothing brilliant about Name Withheld’s argument for heckling at the movies in Washington Hall (March 25). You, alas, said there was.
Until the opinion of the theater-goers in Washington Hall is measured •with some kind of valid instrument, Name Withheld not only may be presumptuous in saying we go to hear the hecklers; he is presumptuous. . . .
I suggest two reasons for not heckling the movie, dumb creature that it is. If the show does not entertain, it kills two hours of an otherwise boring night on (Continued on Page 31)
4 patch-pockets on our
CORDUROY JACKETS
specially priced at 19.75
The brand new, smart looking and much-talked-about 4-pocket sport jacket in fine pin-wale corduroy at a new low price! Styled and tailored like a much more expensive coat . . . see them tomorrow at Adler's.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER:
FRED BANICKI, 441 B R E E N - P H I L L I P S
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Last week we stubbed an adjective on our censor’s blue pencil and, as a result, The Week took a weekend in one of those wire waste baskets. We’re going to try again this week, taking the edge off some of our sharp syllables with a bit of emery cloth given us by Father MacAvoy, the noted historian and expert on ancient texts.
Pass the Peace Pipe
This was a great week in world politics. Acheson, Churchill, and the other 97 diplomats who are keeping PanAmerican airways in business got down to the business of signing the North Atlantic pact. This agreement, if ratified by Congress, will bring peace, French cognac, and hordes of traveling university professors to the world. Russia, as expected, called the whole deal a direct aggressive move to put Drew Pearson on the Pravda feature page, Dr. Waldemar Gurian on the Murmansk University faculty, Hildegarde on Radio Moscow, and Harry Truman in suite 8 in the Kremlin. Churchill boomed that the pact was designed, in the finest hour, to save western civilization. France favored it. So did Norway and Luxembourg. Frankly, we’re worried. Up until now Texas hasn’t said whether’ she’s for or agin it.
It's Just a Roomer
Tradition, that lap-dog of fond recollection, went down for the ten-count last week. Father Sorin must have been spinning around in his grave like a lathe when he got the news that Sorin hall, come September ’49, will be inhabited by those intolerable inferiors, juniors. To make matters worse Alumni hall, which has housed the senior moneychangers from the commerce school and the senior wheels of the Student Council and Blue Circle for years and years, has been opened to the aforementioned untouchables. According to the now-famous directive, seniors will abide in Dillon, Walsh, and Howard. Imagine that, Howard. Any day now we’re expecting the news that Corby has been turned over lock, stock, and tradition to a group of floundering freshmen.
The reasons for these tradition-shaking moves have been philosophy-like in their vagueness. We heard, from a
source reported to be reliable, that the mass removal of seniors to the interior of the campus was done to eliminate many hypertensions caused by the nearness of the Stratigon and graduation. Anybody know of a good room off-campus with a long-standing, low-rent tradition?
Sunday Mass a la Vetville
For some time married veterans have not exactly been encouraged to bring their squealing tots from Vetville to Sacred Heart church on Sun
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOR old Sheedy had a hang dog look before he tried the Finger-Nail Test and switched to Wildroot Cream-OiL Today—he’s a blue ribbon winner. Regular use of Wildroot
Cream-Oil now gives him a snappy, well-groomed look. No longer is he bothered by dryness and loose, ugly dandruff. He’s out of the dog house for good with his girl friends. Why not dog trot down to your nearest drug store for a bottle or tube of non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil right now! And ask your barber for professional applications. You’ll find that once you start using Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin, you’re a gay dog in even the best society.
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Ino, Buffalo 11,N. Y.
days. The howling two-year-olds raised havoc with the sermons. Father Bailey, the present “Guardian Angel” of Vetville, has solved the situation by saying a special Sunday Mass for the parents and tots in the Farley hall chapel. It’s an unusual sight to watch the diaperage part of the congregation pawing the beads, chewing on the missals, and eyeing Father Bailey as he says the Mass.
Speaking of Vetville, the Vet Gazette, weekly publication of the community of 117 married veterans, published a cartoon several weeks ago which poked fun at its increasing population. The cartoon showed a group of storks standing in front of a hangar-like building labeled “The Stork Club — Speedy Service.” One of the storks was limping around on a pair of crutches. His beak was bleeding and his eyes were weighted down with 100-pound bags. Beside him another stork was commenting to a friend: “Poor Oscar, all crippled up____ and he’d only been on that new Vetville run for six months!”
April 8, 1949
5
Entertainment
APRIL 8
COLFAX (through April 13)—South of St. Louis. Joel McCrea heads an all-star cast including Alexis Smith, Zachary Scott and Dorothy Malone, in this technicolor western. It’s just another rcoter-tooter in comparison to the recent Red River classic.
PALACE (through April 9)—Sun Comes Up and Gun Smugglers. The feature attraction stars Jeanette MacDonald, Lloyd Nolan and The Yearling juvenile, Claude Jarman, Jr., who do their best to overcome Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings’ sentimental story of a retired concert singer and an orphan. Lassie and technicolor are added to provide extra enduce-ments.
GRANADA (through April 9) — Kissing Bandit and Alaska Patrol. Frank Sinatra as a pseudo Robin Hood belies the hyperbolic title by bussing his heroine, beauteous Kathryn Grayson, but once and even that’s a rather prosaic smack. Dance specialties by Ann Miller, Ricardo Montalban and Sono Osato perk up the musical whenever the dawdling plot starts to bog it down.
STATE (through April 9) — Gallant Blade and Babe Ruth Story. Larry Parks (ne Jolson) slashes his sword in the feature while William Bendix and Claire Trevor cry their way through the co-rerun.
APRIL 10
PALACE (through April 13)—Rogues Regiment and Big Fight. That reincarnated crooner, Dick Powell, finds himself this time in the Asiatic branch of the French Foreign Legion. As always, the tortuous slug-fests are the high points of this tough-guy film.
GRANADA (through April 13)—Jiggs and Maggie in Court and Judge. Get a fourth and play some bridge.
STATE (through April 13)—Captive Wild Woman and Drums of Congo (Reissues). Get a fifth and play some hearts.
APRIL 13
EASTER VACATION—School dismissed for a month but because of tradition everyone must be back within a week. Club car jokers should remember that their trips home are being made in Holy Week — a time for abstinence and not over-indulgence. Quell those clowns!
APRIL 14
COLFAX (through April 20)—Letter to Three Wives. Starring Jeanne Crain, Linda Darnell, Ann Sothern, Kirk Douglas, Jeffry Lynn and a sensational newcomer to the movies, Paul Douglas, this film has received critical kudos from coast to coast. A story of suburban life, its pungent dialogue is at once humorous, realistic, dramatic and packed with pithy epigrams of truth. A better film will not hit South Bend for months.
PALACE (through April 16) — That Wonderful Urge and Duke of Chicago. Although produced by the same studio that claims the Colfax feature, this stellar attraction is diametrically opposed to it. Tyrone Power and Gene Tierney share the billing, but the film is trite, silly and a waste of entertainment.
STATE (through April 16)—It Happened One Night and She Couldn’t Take It (reissues). Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert star in Frank Capra’s, comedy which was released in the early thirties and has been used as a film criterion of humor ever since. It will have to go some to live up to its advance huzzahs.
We have A fine Selection
EASTER
Cards and Gifts
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, sc 'd for our free booklet, “The Career For Me?” which includes a preliminary test to help determine your aptitude. If your score is favorable, our Manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY off NEW YORK
34 Nassau Streit Sif NewYork5.N.Y.
FIRST IN <07 AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET—“THE CAREER FOR ME?”—uW&RESS DEPT. 7.
mam*	■	__AGE , _
ADDRESS------------------------------
CITY---------------------------------
6
The Scholastic
flohe, SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 April 8. 1949 No. 23
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR News JOSEPH DUKERT___________Assistant News W. GREGORY HALPIN ______Features HARRY MONAHAN __________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT._________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER _____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN _______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER ____________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE__________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL ___________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN..______Faculty Moderator
"Rosie's.” Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The young man on the cover this week might well be mistaken for one of the undergraduates if it were not for the fact that his fame in the world of Chemistry is equalled only by another Notre Darner in football — Sir Francis Leahy. His name — Dr. Charles Price: his job — head of the Department of Chemistry. Honor after honor has been heaped upon the head of Dr. Price by the state and the nation. But the honor most important to him will be that bestowed upon him by the University when they at last break ground for the new science building which will give Dr. Price and his associates more room to work in. —Photo by Dick Gorman
“LOOK FOK THI BUU TIN WITH THI KID WOOL"
The femme viewpoint does favor the man with a pipe, you know. And you’ll favor the gentle, extra-mild friendliness of KC’s famous White Burley blend. Smoke fragrant, flavorful Kentucky Club—“Treat Yourself to the Best!”
April 8, 1949
7
HE HAS BUILT A BRAND NEW CITY
.. til.;?*

I*
y^V^


The “telephone man” is mighty busy these days!
Since the war, among many other things, he has built or enlarged 2,800 buildings . . . scores of them large enough to fit into the skyline of a modem metropolis.
These buildings are more than brick, mortar and telephone equipment. They are jobs for thousands of men and women . . . more and better telephone service for millions of people . . . more business for the towns and cities in which they are located.
But most important of all, they are an indication of the Bell System’s earnest efforts to keep up with the nation’s ever growing needs for communications service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic
/Motte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 23
APRILS, 1949
Senior Ball to Feature Freddy Martin's Band
Arrangements are nearing completion for the 1949 Senior Ball, to be held May 20 in the Drill Hall, with Freddy Martin, his “Singing Saxophone,” and his orchestra providing the music for the occasion.
Senior class prexy Pat Costello and his committees have worked hard in laying the plans for this year’s dance. Lou Schibelli, John St. Germaine, and Bob Molnar will handle the task of converting the mammoth barn from a sombre artillery depot into a delightful cabaret, with ample space for tables and dancing.
Top favorite among millions of radio and record fans throughout the world, versatile Freddy Martin has gained his greatest renown from his modern arrangement of the “Tschaikowsky Concerto in B-Flat Minor,” or “Tonight We Love.” For eight years, his name has been synonymous with the celebrated Cocoanut Grove of the Los Angeles Ambassador Hotel. His summer engagements have included the Waldorf-Astoria and St. Regis Hotels in New York, and the Palmer House and the Edgewater- Beach in Chicago.
Martin is also remembered for his performance on the Jack Carson show for six years, and his appearance in such movies as “Stage Door Canteen” and “Seven Days’ Leave.” Many of his pressings for Victor records have exceeded the million mark.
The 18-piece orchestra will feature vocalist Merve Griffin and the famous “Martin Men.” Ait Devaney at the piano presents Latin-American rhythms, novelty tunes, and ballads with equal artistry.
The price of the deluxe evening of dancing is set at $9.00 per bid.
NO APRIL FOOL
Contrary to the printed report, the SCHOLASTIC did not print its promised April Fool's issue last week. The Board of Publications deemed the material written for this projected issue unfit for the magazine.
Director Names 'Shadow and Substance' Cast; Rehearsal Begins Tonight for May 11 Play
After two packed nights of tryout auditioning, the cast for the University Theater’s May 11 production of Shadow and Substance was announced last week. Frank J. Hanley, director of the play, said the leading roles of Canon Skerritt and his housekeeper, Brigid, would be played by Stephen Hauser and June Anderson.
Other roles in Paul Vincent Carroll’s popular Irish play were assigned to Jack Powell, who will play O’Flingsley, the schoolmaster; Mary Jo Cowger as Skerritt’s niece, Thomasina; Leo Blaber and James Maher as the two curates, Fathers Corr and Kirwan; Charles J. Perrin as the jovial bartender, Mulla-hone, and Mrs. Jean Richard as spinster Jemima Cooney.
William J. McShane will play the part of Francis O’Connor, Jemima’s nephew and Hildegarde Vargyas .will portray Rosey Violet, Mullahone’s ebullient wife.
Players Have Experience
All the players selected, with the sole exception of McShane, have had theatrical experience in the past. June An
EAGER ACTORS AND ACTRESSES AT "SHADOW AND SUBSTANCE" TRIALS
derson, Jean Richard, Hildegarde Vargyas and Mary Jo Cowger are veterans of South Bend’s Presbyterian Players group; Miss Vargyas is a member of the Catholic Theater Guild of South Bend and Miss Anderson has played several outstanding roles for the Community Theater. Hauser, Maher, Powell and Blaber saw action in the recent one-act plays, and Perrin is remembered for his versatile impersonations in former KC vaudeville shows on campus. -
With the cast selected and the roles assigned, Director Hanley expects the group to begin intensive rehearsals tonight. According to present plans, the group will have twenty-one rigid practice sessions before the opening date, May 11, when the production opens its three-night stand in Washington Hall.
Rave Notices in the Past
Shadozv and Substance has received many rave notices in the past. Though it was first produced in 1937, in Dublin’s famous Abbey Theater, the play still has much attraction and timeliness. Its
(Continued on Page 28)
April 8, 1949
9
Language Department Begins New Project; Brings Foreign Film Program to Notre Dame
hopes to obtain a Mexican film with Cantinflas, widely known as the Charley Chaplin of the Mexican screen.
—Roger Vorce
Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modern Languages has announced a new idea in entertainment for presentation on the campus—a program of foreign films. Having been in the planning stage for several months, the seven-film series was completed just last week.
The first movie on the program, Russian Ballerina, will be presented next Monday evening in Washington Hall. In the weeks following, the series includes the French mystery, Pearls of the Crown on April 21, and a German musical, La Boheme on April 28. On May 6, another musical, the French Schubert’s Serenade will be presented and on May 10 a Spanish film not yet selected. For May 20, Emil Und Die Detektive, a German classic has been chosen. The last in the series, on May 24, will be another undetermined Spanish film.
According to Mr. Langford, each of the movies will have English subtitles with the exception of Emil Und Die Detektive and possibly one of the Spanish films. For the films without the captions, Mr. Langford plans to mimeograph a synopsis of the story.
All but Two in Campus Bijou
All the showings will be in Washington Hall except those scheduled for May 6 and May 10. These two films will be viewed in the Engineering Auditorium because Washington Hall will be used by the University Theater for dress rehearsals of its new play Shadoiv and Substance.
A season ticket for the entire series may be had for fifty cents. Each of the seven programs includes a cartoon and newsreel with the featured film. To date tickets have been available to modern language students only, but those remaining may be obtained by all students in Room 231 of the Main Building.
When asked for his primary objective in starting the program, Mr. Langford said, “We feel that for language students there is a great value in hearing the dialogues in the language they are studying. When the film deals with some aspect of foreign life, as will usually be the case, the student is benefitted further by an enrichment of his understanding and appreciation of the civilization and culture of that country.
Performance of “Swan Lake"
Highlights of the films are varied. In Russian Ballerina, the famous Russian ballerina, Ulanova is presented by filming an actual theater performance of
Swan Lake. In the French classic, Pearls of the Crown, four languages are spoken —French, Italian, Abyssinian, and English.
The well-known French star, Louis Jouvet plays the part of Franz Schubert in Schubert's Serenade, and in the same film the orchestra of the Paris Opera renders such numbers as Serenade, Impatience, Waltz of Spring, Ave Maria, and The Unfinished Symphony. In La Boheme, the well-known Broadway and continental stars Jan Kiepura and Marta Eggerth blend their talents to a score by Puccini played by the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra.
Although the two Spanish films have not yet been definitely named, Mr. Langford says that one of the tentative selections is Dios Se Lo Pague, starring Arturo de Cordoba. For the other film, he
YCS CHOOSES NEW BIGWIGS FOR COMING YEAR
Left to right: sitting. Jim Poat, president; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain; J. F. Kelleher, vice-president; standing. Gene Myler, secretary, and Ray Martin, treasurer.
Jim Poat Named President of YCS Council
Jim Poat, a sophomore from Paducah, Ky., has been elected to succeed Bob Reynolds as president of the YCS Federation Council. According to the new organization’s constitution awaiting Student Council approval, he will preside over the coordination of all YCS affairs on campus.
Vice-President Jim Kelleher will deal specifically with problems of publicity
Irene Dunne Among Stars Slated for Easter Broadcast
Irene Dunne, recent recipient of the 1949 Laetare Medal, will join Ethel Barrymore, Bing Crosby, Loretta Young and fifteen other- top-flight Hollywood stars on the Easter Sunday broadcast presented by the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C. The “Triumphant Hour” program will be beamed by the Mutual network at 7:30 p.m. CST.
The broadcast will be similar to last year’s Easter feature, which included recitation of the Rosary and dramatization of the Glorious Mysteries. Father Peyton, who visited the ND campus recently under the auspices of the Aquinas Lecture Series, is scheduled to speak briefly in a plea for daily recitation of the family rosary.
and public relations. Handling the secretarial duties of filing and correspondence will be Gene Myler. Ray Martin rounds out the quartet of new officers in his post as treasurer.
Poat’s first official act was the reappointment of Art Frerick as the ND representative to the Chicago area of the national YCS organization.
10
The Scholastic
Audio-Visual Program Planned for Faculty
The Audio-Visual Center has planned a program to make its facilities available to the faculty of the University. This program will provide demonstrations, practice and specialized uses of all Audio and Visual equipment for the staffs of the various colleges. The first of five sessions will be held April 26, and they will continue each Tuesday afternoon thereafter, from 1:00 to 4:00 p. m.
Orville R. Foster, the director of the Department of Audio-Visual Aids, has expressed his hope that many teachers will “take advantage of this opportunity and that we may be able to suggest not only sources of teaching aids for particular fields but actually help in the preparation of aids which would be tailor-made for particular classes.” These sessions are to be held in conjunction with, but entirely separate from weekly screenings of pertinent visual aids in particular educational fields. They are for faculty members only.
Teachers participating- in this program will have a chance to become familiar with threading and running a projector. The uses of the various media of recording (disc, wire and tape) as well as actual experience in the use of sound and silent film strips, opaque materials and other aids to good teaching will be demonstrated.
ND, St. Mary's Plan Joint Choral Reading Presentation
A group of 30 students from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame will present a reading of the entire second part of George Friedrich Handel’s Messiah this Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in the Social Hall at St. Mary’s. This academic reading of the famous oratorio will be under the direction of Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., assistant professor in the Department of Music.
The second part of the Messiah ends with the famous “Hallelujah” Chorus and is often referred to as the “Easter portion” of the religious composition.
Generation Club Banquet
The Generation Club held its first annual banquet last week in the Capitol restaurant. Members of the new organization were high in their praise of the affair, which was handled by Edward D. McCarthy, Club secretary. The program included salutes to the different athletic teams of the club, and the showing of the 1948 ND-Purdue football film. Other activities, including a social, have been scheduled for the near future by the Club.
N. D. Band to Play at Warm Springs
Tommy Sexton Will Get His Wish
The Notre Dame Band will make a 150-mile detour during its Eastertime swing through the South to present a personal salute to one of the most faithful and courageous of all the “Fighting Irish.”
Tommy Sexton never actually scored a touchdown or won a ball game for Notre Dame. For almost five years, Tommy hasn’t even been able to hold a football, for\ he is completely paralyzed as the result of poliomyelitis. But in spirit, at least, he has raced across the goal line hundreds of times with green-shirted ND backs.
When Tommy’s mother wrote to Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the band, asking if a stop-over at the Warm Springs Polio Foundation were possible, she admitted that she thought it was “a chance in a million.” But it only took a moment of deliberation to decide that the University’s selfappointed No. 1 Fan would get his wish.
According to Mrs. Sexton, Tommy was stricken in ’44, only one week after his sixteenth birthday. He was an iron lung patient for 18 months and still requires a weekly overnight rest in the big tank. Although his arm muscles aren’t even strong enough to hold the magazine himself, he has been a regular reader of the Scholastic for years.
Mrs. Sexton says that Tommy is very definite about asserting his “Fighting Irish” blood. “We played Irish records all of St. Patrick’s Day,” she writes, “although some of these Southern girls had never heard of celebrating St. Pat’s Day before.
“Tommy has been favored by Notre
Nuremberg Trial Judge to Speak Here
The much-discussed Nuremberg War trials and their effect on future international law will be analyzed April 26 in Washington Hall by a man who actually presided at the famous sessions in Germany. Dr. Paul M. Hebert, dean of the College of Law at Louisiana State University, will come to the campus under the sponsorship of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
As a judge on the International Tribunal, Dr. Hebert gained prominence by
Dame before. Father Goodall visited him on two occasions [see Scholastic, March, 1946]; and Mr. Leahy visited Tommy on his birthday in 1946. He
TOMMY SEXTON Band's Detour to Help
also went to the Notre Dame-Toledo U. baseball game last summer and met some of the players.
“Tommy is a very courageous and brave young man,” she goes on. “He is always smiling and never complains.”
Doctors say that Tommy’s chances of recovery are very slim. He may never walk again. But the Notre Dame Band will do its best to cheer him up, for a little while anyway. And 150 miles isn’t far to go . . . for a swell guy like Tommy!
—Joe Dukert
his dissenting vote against acquittal of officials of the I. G. Farben industries,, on charges of instigating aggressive war. In the same trial, many of the industrialists were convicted on other charges of plundering and ill treatment of slave labor.
As a colonel in the army during the war, Dr. Hebert received Legion of Merit award for service in the Industrial War branch of the office of the Judge Advocate General.
April 8, 1949
11
Juniors Sign Bishop For 'Candy Carnival'
Billy Bishop and his music makers will occupy the main ring at the “Candy Carnival,” this year’s edition of the Junior Class Prom. Rockne Memorial gym will serve as the “big top” for the affair on Friday, May 6, according to co-chairmen Russ Skall and Jim Holway, who released details of the dance this week.
Early plans indicate a weekend full of activity, including the Varsity-Old Timers game, a track meet with Pitt, and a tennis match against Detroit Saturday, plus the Monogram Club Dance at the “Rock” that night. Furthermore, to ease the usual “big dance congestion” on campus, seats will be reserved for prom-goers at the 10:10 Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning.
Tickets are scheduled to go on sale immediately after the Eastei- vacation. The dance will be open to upper-classmen only.
Committeemen now at work on the “Carnival” include: Jim Conway, Jim Curran, Ed Farrell, Herman Hamilton and Lou Louro—decorations; Jack Finnigan and Bob Schlosser — arrangements; Bob Rohling and Bill Eggers — hotel reservations; John Whalen and Ken Lisy — refreshments; Bob Slocum and Bill Bradley—publicity; Bill Shanahan—tickets; and Jack Donnelly—bids. Class Treasurer Jack Thornton will act as business manager.
Irish Debate Team Invited To West Point Tournament
For the third consecutive year, Notre Dame’s varsity speech squad has been selected as one of the top 32 teams in the country who compete annually for national honors in the West Point Debate Tournament, scheduled this year for some time in May. These chosen teams represent the elite from 500 ■eligible universities from coast to coast.
In the Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament, held last week at Purdue, Bill Carey and Tom Ninneman blazed through with five Anns on the affirmative side of the “Federal Aid to Education” topic; but the negative squad crumbled to five straight losses.
In the parliamentary procedure session of the TKA tourney, Frank Finn tied for first place among 300 contestants. Bill Carey dragged down fourth place in extemporaneous speaking.
Boston University is next on the schedule for the debaters, with an exhibition debate here April 21. Georgetown is slated to invade the ND arguers’ home grounds April 25.
LENTEN RETREATS
The fifth and final Lenten retreat will open tomorrow night at the usual 7:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel. The services will be conducted by the Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., and the particular halls included will be Morrissey and Lyons. But as usual the students of all halls and all off campus students who wish to make the retreat are welcome to do so. Since this is the last retreat for the season, anyone who has not yet taken advantage of this opportunity is urged to do so. Father Laskowski will speak on the following topics: “Christ in the Garden (The Problem of Suffering)"; “The Trial of Christ (The Problem of Sin)"; “The Consummation (Sharing the Redemption)"; and “The Risen Saviour (Peace Through Perseverance)."
The schedule of exercises is as follows:
SATURDAY
7:30 p.m.—Opening Conference
8:00 p.m.—Rosary at the Grotto
8:30 p.m.—Confessions, Main Church
SUNDAY
7:30 a.m.—Mass and Sermon
9:00 a.m.—Holy Hour
10:00 a.m.—Marriage Forum (Cavanaugh Library)
1:00 p.m.—Conference
1:30 p.m.—Outdoor Way of Cross and Renewal of Baptismal Vows
'Old Vic' Reader
ROBERT SPEAIGHT
Robert Speaight, a former member of the famous “Old Vic" Shakespearean company in London, presented a series of dramatic readings last night in Washington Hall. Mr. Speaight who taught Jacobean Drama here during the summer of 1940, appeared under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Glee Club Going East For Easter Vacation
The complete concert schedule of the Notre Dame Glee Club’s Eastern tour has been announced and the opening concert will be given in Canton, Ohio, on April 13 at the Lincoln High School auditorium. On April 17, the Glee Clubbers will perform at the Poughkeepsie High School Auditorium, Poughkeepsie, New York. The next concert is slated for the Cathedral Auditorium in New York City on April 19. Scranton, Pa., will play host to the singers on April 20 when they will sing at the Masonic Temple there.
Next stop for the wandering warblers is Pittsburgh, Pa., at Antonian Hall, Mount Mercy College, on April 22, followed on April 23 by a concert at the High School Auditorium in Steubenville, Ohio. Rounding out their vacation trip, the ND Glee Club will sing at the Ross High School Auditorium in Fremont, Ohio, on April 24,. after which they will head back to Notre Dame.
The traveling squad for the Glee Club will be made up of 42 students and, as usual, the singers will be directed by Daniel H. Pedtke. Plans have been made for the group to attend Mass on Easter Sunday at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City. The management of the Biltmore Hotel in New York has arranged informal concerts and receptions for the Glee Club during their stay in New York. They will also sing during appearances in the famous Bowman Room where they will be featured in a special program with Ed Sullivan, noted New York columnist and critic. A possible television broadcast and recording sesions are still in the planning stage.—John H. Janowski
K of C Plans Spring Dance At Erskine Country Club
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus will hold their Spring Informal Dance on April 29 at the Erskine Country Club. Tony Papa’s band will play for the dancers from 9 till 1. Chairman Tony Ray says there will be late 2 a.m. permissions for students going to the dance. Special busses will leave the Circle at 8:15 the evening of the dance for St. Mary’s and will proceed • from there to the Country Club.
Only 100 tickets will be sold, with K. of C. members getting first chance to buy. These tickets can be obtained for $3.00 in the Walsh Hall Council Chambers or from the various hall representatives.
12
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Sport Films Postponed
Orders have come from the Easter bunny to skip next week’s sport movie showing; but the football films will return to the screen of the Engineering Auditorium April 21 at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. That 0-0 sparring match between cautious ND and more cautious Anny in 1946 will be the feature.
Metallurgist to Speak
Mr. W. Mounce, of the International Nickel Co., Inc., will be the guest speaker at the April meeting of the American Society for Metals Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. His topic will be “The effect of Structure on Machining Steels.”
For Algebra Addicts
Local math wizards will be treated to a series of lectures next week by Professor A. Adrian Albert, of the University of Chicago. The first, at 11 a.m. Tuesday, will treat “Associative Algebras”; the second, scheduled for 3:15 p.m. the same day, will cover “Lie and Jordan Algebras”; and the final talk, at 10 a.m. Wednesday, will deal with “Power-Associative Algebras.” All three lectures will be held in Room 104 of Science Hall.
"Juggler" to Appear
The spring issue of the Juggler will slide off the presses and into the Cafeteria magazine racks some time next week, according to editor Dick Schaeffer. Among the usual selection of stories, book reviews, poetry and sketches will be: “Seasonable Time,” by William H.
HOLY WEEK SERVICES
Following are the Holy Week Services for Sacred Heart Church:
PALM SUNDAY
Students' Solemn Mass _______8:00 a.m.
WEDNESDAY
Tenebrae 7:30 p.m.
HOLY THURSDAY
Solemn Mass ________________7:00	a.m.
Mandatum ___________________2:00	pan.
Tenebrae -----------------  7:30	p.m.
GOOD FRIDAY
Solemn Mass of the Presanctified 8:00 a.m.
Chapter 2:00 p.m.
Stations 3:00 pan.
Tenebrae 7:30 pan.
HOLY SATURDAY
Services begin at 6:00 aan.
Solemn Mass at 7:30 aan.
Slavick; F. Fallon Evans’ essay “They Foughte Al Day”; and a humorous short story by Hugh Arnold, “Mr. Ap-teeki and the Life of Man.”
Also . . .
Foreign film series in Washington Hall, and new WND programs . . . for details of these, see the news pages of the Scholastic.
This Week
Rubinstein Performs Here
Artur Rubinstein, world renowned pianist, appeared as guest soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Monday night before a capacity Drill Hall audience. Highlight of the evening was Mr. Rubinstein’s superb rendition of the beautiful Concerto No. 1 in B-Flat Minor, by Tschaikovsky.-
Golden Jubilee
Fifty years a priest! . . . The Rev. George Sauvage, C.S.C., Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, celebrated his golden jubilee Friday at a solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Math Lecture
Professor Max Dehn, noted geometer from the University of Wisconsin, presented a lecture here on “The Approximation of a Function by a Power Series,” under the auspices of the ND Department of Mathematics.
Gifts Received
Chemicals valued at $250 have been donated to the Department of Chemistry by Mr. H. B. Kinsinger, assistant vice-president of Wilson Brothers, South Bend. Other contributions this week included scientific publications donated to the Biology Library by the Rev. R. J. Sheehan, C.S.C., the Canadian Institute, and the South Bend Public Library.
Last Week
Dr. Borgers Speaks
Mathematical logic was the topic of two talks given here by Dr. Alfons Borgers, from Princeton University. Dr. Borgers holds a fellowship from the Belgian American Educational Foundation.
Opportunity
Marine Commissions
Want to become a Marine Corps Reserve officer with only twelve weeks of summer camp training, and without interrupting college studies? For full details of the program, which requires no
special extra courses, see Capt. J. M. Daly, U.S.M.C., at the Navy Drill Hall.
Jobs . . .
A number of jobs as cartographic aids (with salaries from $2,152 to $3,727) and cartographers ($4,479 to $7,432) have been announced by the Civil Service Commission. At least 3 months* experience is necessary, but pertinent college or high school courses may be substituted for this requirement. Full information can be secured by writing the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Vet News
Summer School
Vets planning to attend summer school under the GI Bill should begin now to make necessary arrangements for VA certificates of eligibility. Application forms may be obtained from the Registrar’s Office on the ground floor of the Main Building.
Concert Program for May Arranged by ND Orchestra
Mr. Biondo, director of the Notre Dame Orchestra, has announced a concert to be presented May 5 in Washington Hall. The 52-piece organization will offer four selections of true concert orchestra calibre: the Rosamunds Overture by Schubert, Mozart’s Bassoon Concerto with Andy Fairlee as soloist, the Finnish tone poem Finlandia by Jean Sibelius, and Beethoven’s Symphony No. 7 in C Major.
Mr. Biondo is encouraged with the group’s excellent progress during the past months, and a delightful concert is promised to all music lovers.
PHOTO CREDITS
Picture on 9, Rumely; 10. Murphy; 12, Kunkle; spread on 16 and 17 by Gorman; 28. Zahm mural photo by Harlan; 21, Fitzgerald; 22. portraits by Murphy, action by Kunkle; 23. Rumely; 26, Rumely; 28. Fitzgerald.
April 8, 1949
13
Names Make News
JAMES A. MAROHN, a graduate of Notre Dame, was recently named treasurer of the Noma Electric corporation m New York. Marohn, formerly of South Bend, joined the company in 1946 as controller and assistant treasurer. He was with the Ernst & Ernst accounting of Pittsburgh, Pa., before joining the Noma corp. Marohn is a member of the Controllers Institute of America, the Pennsylvania. Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the American Institute of Accountants.
Dr. PAUL CHANG, of Shanghai, China, and a graduate student in political science at Notre Dame, gave the most recent in a series of talks on Russia for reserve officers of South Bend last Monday. Dr. Chang addressed members of the 2007th logistical division and an infantry training division on “Communist Activities in The Far East.” During the wai- he worked behind the Japanese lines with members of the allied underground.
Dr. CHARLES C. PRICE, head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame, Indiana’s outstanding young man of 1948, spoke at a Jaycee luncheon yesterday. The highlight of the annual bosses luncheon of the Junior Association of Commerce was the naming of South Bend’s young man of the year. Judges of the contest were Mayor GEORGE A. SCHOCK, Notre Dame grad; Harold S. Vance, president and chairman of the board of the Studebaker corporation; Orlo R. Deahl, attorney; Gerald E. Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune; and Joseph D. Barnette, president of the First Bank & Trust company.
WALTER A. RICE, Notre Dame grad •and World War I veteran, was one of two democrats named to the Indiana Al-•coholic Beverage Commission recently by Governor Henry F. Schricker. Rice was originally from Chicago but has been living in South Bend and is an attorney for the National Discount Corporation.
Last Saturday Mayor GEORGE A. SCHOCK announced the appointment of Dr. L. A. RAUSCH and Mr. Ben H. Drollinger to serve unexpired terms of two South Bend Park Commissioners who have resigned. Rausch is an osteopathic physician and surgeon in South Bend. He attended Notre Dame for two years, 1912-13, and then entered the American School of Osteopathy at Kirks
ville, Mo. Since 1929, Dr. Rausch has served as the chairman of the Indiana LaSalle Memorial commission which commemorates the activities of Robert Rene Cavalier, Sieur de LaSalle in this part of Indiana.
Ace netman KEVIN O’SHEA, only returning regular from this year’s basketball team, was guest speaker at the banquet held for the basketball squad of St. Patrick’s High School in Kankakee, Ill. O’Shea, who switched from the court to the speaker’s table following the season without any difficulty, is now return-
KEVIN O'SHEA Travels to Kankakee
ing to the hardwood for spring basketball practice, which opened last Monday.
Scholastic congratulations to BILL (“ZIP”) ROEMER, new Bengal Bout heavyweight champ, and his wife on the birth of an eight-pound baby boy last Saturday.
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; Rev. HOWARD KENNA, c.s.c., director of studies, represented the Notre Dame administration at the fourth annual national conference on higher education held in Chicago Monday through Thursday last week. ROBERT T. STOCK, of Cleveland, O., editor of the Scholastic, attended as a student delegate. Stock was one of fifteen college editors present at the conference.
COY McGEE, 160-pound halfback on Irish squads for the last three years,
left for his home in Longview, Texas, last week with a signed contract in his pocket. Coy will play for the Chicago Hornets of the All-American professional football league next year. The McGees will live in Longview, where Coy plans to continue in the insurance business.
In an article entitled “I Like Married Life,” published in the March issue of The Sign, national Catholic magazine, Mrs. Lucile Hasley states that marriage is “the best bet for human happiness.” Mrs. Hasley is the wife of LOUIS HASLEY, professor of English at Notre Dame. The article points to the fact that marriage is second to none as a developer of the basic virtues and cites examples taken from home life to prove this point.
Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, professor of political science at Notre Dame, closed a three-month series of lectures given before the American Association of University Women in Niles, Mich., with an address on “Democracy in America Today.” Previous lecturers were Dean CLARENCE MANION, head of the Law School, who spoke on the “Origins of American Democracy”; and Dr. F. R. HERMENS, professor of political science, who spoke on the “Danger to American Democracy From Russia.”
Last week radio station WJVA announced that VINCE DOYLE, ’48 ND grad, has been promoted from sports program director to program director of the South Bend station. Vince will still - hold -forth each afternoon in his sports roundup, but he will now have the entire scheduling and program directing task in addition to his regular work.
Engagement Notes:
Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Black, of South Bend, have announced the engagement of their daughter, Helen Lee, to ADAM OSTROSKI, of Shamokin, Pa. Ostroski is to receive his M.S. degree in education in August, Miss Black is a graduate of St. Mary’s college. The wedding will take place sometime in August. Also Miss Collette Cleary and FRANK E. SULLIVAN, of the class of Jan. ’49; and Miss Jean Lindorf and FRANK SCHULTZ, Jan. ’49.
A book of poetry entitled Songs After Sundown -was recently published by Bruce Humphries, Inc., Boston. The poems in this volume were written by JOHN F. SULLIVAN, Jr., Notre Dame grad of ’33.
14
The Scholastic
f
NOTRE DAME
100 Years
(SECOND EDITION)
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.
Notre Dame’s one hundredth birthday was the occasion for the first printing of this 500-page book. On November 26, 1942, Notre Dame rounded out her first full century of existence. Much has happened since then — the death of Father O’Donnell, Lobund research, the happenings in the little village of Vetville, the many anecdotes of an older post-war student body. Thus the second edition is an intimate account of Notre Dame in her first 106 years. Included are the saga of Father Sorin, the great football years, the glories of academic achievements, and many others. Available now . . .
$J_.OO
a single copy (postpaid)
CLIP HERE
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE	Date.1
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send me____________copies of the second edition of NOTRE DAME 100 YEARS.
Enclosed find $._________________ Send books to:
NAME...-------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
ADDRESS...__________________________________________________________________________
Make Checks Payable to: NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
April 8, 1949
I
I
Era of Discovery
A Review of the Past, Present and Future of Science at ND.
By JIM KINGSLEY
Lavoisier, Newton, Boyle, and Pasteur . . . names like these are almost spiritual, like spectres flitting around in history books. Their discoveries bedevil young science students, are hallowed by older ones. Their whispered mention evokes visions of granite statues and scientific immortality.
But we are told the era of discovery has scarcely begun; it is yet an adolescent age. Any day now another Pasteur, Boyle, or Newton will stir the world to become the focus of all eyes. And when this happens, Notre Dame may well be the center of attention. It happened once in 1906 when Father Nieuwland discovered his synthetic rubber formula which the DuPont Company pounced on and developed into Neoprene. It saves an estimated §35,000,000 a year for the rubber industry.
Now, half a century later, Notre Dame science has reached an intensity of operation that Father Nieuwland could only dream of.
There are four groups conducting research at Notre Dame: the Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND), and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. All work in silence. An occasional newspaper nods at their doings:
&
OVERCROWDED LAB DEPICTS PRESSING NEED FOR EXPANSION
a short bit about Rh blood discoveries, a back-page squib on the germ-free chicken’s germ-free egg — usually printed for their “novelty” news value. The average student, too, is oblivious of this work.
LOBUND, abbreviated title for the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame, is perhaps the most unique of the University’s scientific groups. It concentrates entirely on research, applied and basic, and is not an academic department. Founded in 1930 by Professor J. A. Reyniers, it is housed in the Biology Building and operates in 23 specially designed laboratories. It carries on long-range research of outstanding importance to biology, nutrition, medicine, and biological engineering.
Concentrate on Bacteria
Professor Reyniers has divided his efforts between two major projects, one in the field of micrurgical research and the other in germ-free research.
The term micrurgy literally means “small work.” It is a science concerned with all manipulation procedures carried out under a microscope. In close collaboration with Dr. Robert Chalmers of New York University, Professor Reyniers has developed several new instru
ments and methods in this field.
Preliminary work on a machine for mechanically counting living bacteria was started in 1932. Now, plates having over a thousand groups of bacteria may be counted in less than thirty seconds with an accuracy not approachable by the human eye.
Genn*Free Research
Professor Reyniers’ other major project, germ-free research, is on a much larger plane than micrurgy. Its primary purpose is the elimination of the old bacteriological bug-bear of contamination. Throughout the history of this science, bacteriologists have been plagued by their inability to keep out unwanted bacteria from the cultures with which they are working, and to isolate in one place the cultures they are investigating.
Under Professor Reyniers’ supervision, the research program at LOBUND has gained national and international acclaim. Some of their more interesting problems include: investigation of the cause of tooth decay with the University of Chicago’s Zoller Clinic; the use of germ-free life in nutrition studies with the Kellogg Company; the study of an important chicken disease (lymphomatosis) in cooperation with the U. S. Regional Poultry Research Laboratory at East Lansing, Michigan; and germ-free chickens and their use in vitamin research with Parke-Davis and Company.
Biologists Probe Growth
Like LOBUND, the Department of Biology is also embarking on a long-range research program. Built on a fine tradition of botany and zoology, this Department has, in recent years, been greatly expanded. In keeping with the latest advances in biological and related sciences, a series of projects has been planned and integrated under the general heading of groivth and development. These principal vital phenomena will be approached experimentally with physical and chemical methods, and studied on selected animals and plants.
The Department of Chemistry, headed by Dr. Charles Price, continues experimentation in Father Nieuwland’s field of synthetic rubber. Through such research it is advancing our knowledge of the chemistry of acetylene and its derivatives, a field widely exploited by the Germans in World War it" with excellent results.
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell leads the department in, search of anti-malarial drugs. He has worked out a modified plasmochin drug which has high prom-.
LOBUND'S LOFTY THIO AND MODEL OF GERM-FREE TANK Left to right: Dr. James Reyniers, Dr. Philip Trexler, and Dr. Robert
ise as a cure for relapsing malaria, which, though seldom fatal, is the most widespread form of malaria and the hardest to cure.
In cooperation with the Sinclair Oil Company, General Tire Company, Coca-Cola Company, National Institute of Health, the United States Army and Navy, and other interested organizations, Notre Dame’s Department of Chemistry is conducting research in these and many other fields.
New Atom Smasher
The University has also undertaken an active program in physics, centered around the Van de Graff electrostatic generator. The Department of Physics is divided into four groups: the the-
oretical physics group, and three laboratories, one devoted to each of three fields — nuclear physics, high polymer
physics, and physical electronics.
Nuclear physics inevitably suggests “atom smashing,” and that in turn suggests dramatic apparatus. As long ago as 1935 work was begun at Notre Dame on a generator of the Van de Graff type. This first “atom smasher” has since been replaced by another, the present generator, a 4-million volt pressure type of machine capable of producing focussed electron beams up to 600 microamperes.
In the Laboratory of Physical Electronics the new pulse techniques developed during the war are being exploited and extended in the fundamental study of oxide cathodes and similar electronic systems which seem to be capable of giving comparatively enormous electron emissions.
Professor Eugene Guth, director of the Department of Physics, who came to Notre Dame from the University of Vi-enna in 1937, guides the research program of the theoretic group and coordinates the work in the three separate
fields.
The University is planning substantial increases in research and technical personnel as well as a new Biological Station to be established on its own lands in northern Wisconsin and upper Michigan, where graduate students will be provided with exceptional opportunities in field work and research.
But the most imminent and most urgent need of Notre Dame scientists is, of course, the projected new Science Building, which is planned to adjoin the present Chemistry Building. Its estimated cost is $1,750,00, of which $1,300,-000 is yet to be raised.
DR. MILTON BURTON, ND's BIKINI OBSERVER. AND THE WORLD
GRADUATE ASSISTANT OPERATES GEIGER COUNTER
Scientists at Notre Dame
For a Hundred Years they're Helped Mankind
He wears a much-stained white frock coat, his hands are turned yellow or red or blue depending on what he’s working on that day, and he probably smokes a pipe. He’s a man used to working 14, 15 hours straight -without a break, a man who has explored new worlds—a man with tradition behind him and the future of another universe before him. He is a Notre Dame scientist.
As such, he has discovered new antimalarial drugs, hatched germ-free eggs, smashed atoms. He’s a member of a team, a Notre Dame team that is winning the game with disease and the unknown.
He’s a descendant of Nieuwland, of Greene, of Zahm. He has behind him the years of struggle and hope and triumph which these men lived through and created. He is endowed with a firm moral conviction that what he does as a scientist is motivated by the cause of the common good; that he is working toward a fuller realization of the Supreme Scientist—God.
His name is—
Lawrence H. Baldinger. He is dean of the College of Science. The man at the controls of Notre Dame science, he directs the research, the teaching, the
DEAN BALDINGER Controls Science at ND
band of men who are filling the test tubes with a new hope for mankind.
Dean Baldinger was awarded his bachelor of science degree by Western Re-
DR. PRICE RECEIVES AWARD For Wartime Research
serve University in 1929. He came to Notre Dame the following year; got his master’s here in 1931 and stayed on to become an instructor in the Department of Pharmacy. When he received his doctorate here in 1933, he was named head of the Department. Six years later pharmacy was discontinued at Notre Dame and Baldinger went to chemistry. By ’41 he was assistant dean; in ’43 he succeeded Professor Henry B. Froning in the top spot.
Once a Researcher
Before administration overtook his career Baldinger was a research man. He did work at Wisconsin, Chicago and Purdue Universities and worked for the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
He is a scientist with a conscience and his whole department is molded on that pattern. He believes that scientists should not only create but should know how to use their creations. He is, in that sense, a scientist crying in the wilderness. He is a Notre Dame scientist whose name is Baldinger. . . . Although it could be—
James A. Reyniers. If it were, he would be right in the middle of Notre Dame’s most spotlighted scientific project. For Professor Reyniers finds him
self head of the Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame, better known throughout the nation as LOBUND.
Reyniers is the scientist with his eye on a big goal. He is a man with a “cause,” and his cause centers around a little colony of germ-free animals which he feeds and cares for as if his life depended on theirs. It doesn’t, but the lives of others might very well. Because the results of Reyniers’ work in LOBUND may mean cures for cancer, heart disease and tooth decay.
Attended Notre Dame
Reyniers is Notre Dame trained; he’s almost Notre Dame born, missing by the few miles which separate the campus from Mishawaka. He was born there in 1909, entered Notre Dame in 1926 and emerged with a master’s degree and a faculty appointment five years later.
Reyniers designed the system of isolation cubicles for the protection of babies from all air-borne bacteria for the “Cradle” nursing home in Illinois; designed and has supervised the construction of the germ-free apparatus used in the ND labs and has done everything but lay the bricks on the new LOBUND buildings now almost completed on campus.
Or he could be a scientist with a past
TEDDY AND FATHER ZAHM Zahm Hall Mural
18
The Scholastic
and future, a young man in a young field, as is—
Dr. Charles C. Price, the head of the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry. Someone has called Dr. Price the “young genius” of the ND chemistry department. He wouldn’t like that. He’d look at you with a boyish smile and mutter something like “nonsense.” But the facts would call him a liar. He is 35 years old, the head of one of the better known college chemistry departments in the country, author of more than 70 papers on chemistry, head of government research projects, an outstanding research man in his own right, and Indiana’s “Outstanding Young Man of 1948.” If you were Dr. Price you’d smile boyishly and say “nonsense.”
Not so if you were—
Dr. George F. Hennion. You’d say: “You’re right, he’s one of the best.” Which you could also apply to yourself— if you were Dr. Hennion. Here’s why: Hennion is a graduate of Notre Dame in 1932 and got a doctorate here in ’35. Since then he’s been teaching and doing research. He aided Father Nieuwland in synthetic rubber research, is the director of organic chemical research, has written about forty research publications in the field. Dr. Hennion is the Nieuwland professor of Chemistry at the present time.
Grad Student Import
The graduate student at Notre Dame may come from California, Holy Cross, Baylor or Illinois or even from China or Canada. He puts in a work week of 40 to 60 hours. He attends classes until he
passes a candidacy exam for his degree. He works part time on his thesis. He is approximately 26 years old, may or may not be married (in ratio 50-50) and for the most part comes from another school to do graduate work at Notre Dame.
He doesn’t talk about himself but rather about the big men of ND science — Price, Burton, Hennion and the others. He is probably here on a fellowship from a company interested in what he’s doing, who’ll take all his research developments as their own.
He is the scientist of tomorrow working in the shadow of the Notre Dame scientists of today and yesterday. He is building a better tomorrow in crowded laboratories and with rubber gloves, in stained smocks and with a pipe in his mouth.
The New Science Building
This is the house that faith will build 1 It is the new Science Building at Notre Dame — a monument to men of the past, a structure of hope in the future. A building where God and Chemistry fuse in an experiment in better living.
It is an expensive thing, this new building. They say it will cost $1,750,000 to build. That’s more than the total cost of Zahm, Cavanaugh, Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls put together. But then, too, there’s a great investment here — an investment in cures for cancer, heart disease, an investment in a morally conscious science.
According to present plans, construction will start in 1949. But that’s up to the thousands of friends and alumni of the University throughout the country. It’s their money that will build it and the call is out now for $1,400,000. The
University already has $350,000 allocated from previous unrestricted Foundation Gifts.
The building, three stories high, will house the Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry Depai-tments. The vital need for such a structure is summed up in these official words: “A New Science Building must be Notre Dame’s answer to a current inadequacy of facilities out of all proportion to the unique opportunities for service which have come to her in the wake of a superb record in Science. It is a most important and urgent part of Notre Dame’s building program.”
The sketch on this page tells you what the building will look like when it functions. Here are some of the things you’ll find inside the modern facade, if present plans are adhered to:
A two-story library, 47 mathematics units, research control rooms, dark rooms, lecture preparation and large and small lecture rooms. A faculty lounge, and laboratories, laboratories, laboratories — of all sizes and forms — Polymer Labs (four of them). An elementary Chemistry lab, advanced Chemistry, Nuclear Physics, Organic Research, Physics Theory Labs, electronics lab. Micro-film room. Three floors crammed with new equipment.
A modem functional addition to the scramble of Notre Dame architecture, the new building will stand between the fieldhouse and the Old Chemistry Building, thus eliminating one of the most used softball and touch football fields in northern Indiana.
This is a building built of years of faith in a true Science.
April 8, 1949
19
"Where can I get a job with a chance to get ahead?”
Many a young man, looking forward to graduation, is asking that question.
He wants a job that will allow him to make full use of his abilities. He wants an opportunity to advance to higher responsibilities—to win the success he wants in the business world.
Here at Harvester we are sympathetic to ambitions like these. Any young man taking a job at Harvester can rise as far as his knowledge and abilities will take him. We believe in keeping the door of opportunity open for all.
Our company follows the policy of promoting men from within our own ranks — hoth as an inducement to good men to stay with us, and as a reward for outstanding performance.
You need only to glance at the records
of the men in our top management group to see how this policy has worked:
Of our 15 executive officers, six started in our sales operations—as warehouse clerk, salesman, service man, clerk and two as parts department helpers.
Four others started in the head office, as industrial relations man, accountant, clerk and office boy.
Three were professional men—a lawyer, an engineer, and the third who had had a distinguished career outside the industrial field.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Two began in our factories —as student employe and clerk.	j
So you can see how this policy of pro- t motion from within has worked out today for these executive officers. In earning » their present positions they have had an average of 28 years of service with the Company. The path these men followed to their present positions is open tomorrow to others. Every young man who joins our organization can be sure he can go as far as his capabilities will take him. |
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish Nine Opens at Bloomington Today
KLINE RUNS GAUNTLET AS TEAM PREPS FOR OPENER
Huge Fight Crowds Witness Bengal Battles As Finals Break All Attendance Recods
While several hundred short of last year’s record attendance, the 17,371 people who streamed into the Notre Dame fieldhouse last week witnessed another excellent fistic tourney and conceded that the 18th edition of the Bengal Bouts had some of the best matched fights in the event’s history.
The strains of the “Victory March” mingled with coke vendors’ shouts and the cheers, applause and boos of the crowd to bring the five nights of boxing to the title-deciding climax Saturday night. H. Lee Hope’s bandsmen provided musical entertainment for the 5,271 spectators at the finals — this represents a new attendance record for athletic events staged in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, breaking the old mark of 5,100 set at the 1948 Bengal Bout finals.
Jack Noonan, Grand Knight of the
Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, sponsors of this event, welcomed the fans to the finals and thanked all who helped his organization make a financial and entertaining success of the council’s big charity show. The Rev. Leon Boarman, C.S.C., on leave from the Bengal missions, delivered a short message from the Bishop of Dacca.
Another feature of the final night of boxing was the reappearanue of former middleweight champion Tony Zale to referee the 167-pound title bout between Paul Boulous and George Dickson. A few minutes earlier Zale, as this year’s honorary referee, had presented the Sportsmanship trophy to Russ Van Keuren. Four times Russ has entered the Bengals in quest of one of the crowns. Three times he battled his way (Continued on Page 24)
By RAY FITZGERALD
Notre Dame’s baseball Irish, for want of a better cliche, “kick the lid” off the 1949 baseball season today, playing the University of Indiana at Bloomington. The two clubs go at it again tomorrow, and then the Klinemen come back home to face Iowa on the 11th and 12th, and Cincinnati on the 13th. It’s a busyweek, and Coach Jake Kline will have his hands full deciding who will play where.
The starting lineup is contingent upon two factors — the condition of shortstop Pete Koblosh’s ankle, and the pitching selection of Hoosier coach Ernie Andres. Pete has come along far better than expected, and took part in last weekend’s batting drills. Whether or not he’ll be able to put full pressure on the injured ankle is another story. If he does play, Gene Lavery will move back to third, and the much traveled Ray Petrzelka will take the long hike out to right field.
If Pete can’t make it, Lavery and Petrzelka will stay on short and third, respectively, and soph Jean Ferryman will take over right. Jim Gillis and Tommy* Martin, still another third base transfer, will complete the outfield. Dick Giedlin at first, Benny Kpzlik at second, and Dick Maher behind the bat round out the squad.
The Indiana pitching staff is predominately right-handed, but if they do throw a southpaw at the Irish, Coach Kline plans a few switches. Either Martin or Petrzelka would come into the infield and the left-handed hitting Lavery would be benched in favor of Bob Machado, Charlie Kreis, or some other right-handed swinger. Last year there was an over-abundance of southpaw batters and the club saw nothing but lefty pitchers as a result.
Walt Mahannah will chuck the first game for Notre Dame, with “Soup” Campbell going after the Andresmen on Saturday. For the three home games it will probably be Dick Smullen, Tony Lipton, and Bob Nemes on the hill. The squad is hustling, they have the ability and experience, and it could be the breaks they get in these first few games that will mean the difference between a successful and a mediocre season.
April 8, 1949
21
Roemer Tops Cifelli For Fourth Bengal Crown As Free-Slugging Matches Spark Title Bouts
By RALPH WRIGHT
Left to right: Don Ewing (127). Joe Sterrett (137). Mike Conley (142). Vic Roblez (147). Ed Smith (157), George Dickson (1S7), Mike Merrigan (177). Bill Roemer (heavyweight).
Bill “Zip” Roemer uncorked two vicious lefthands at gigantic Gus Cifelli just as the bell rang to bring an end to another great year of Bengal Bout fighting. Roemer had his fourth Bengal championship, Tony Zale had an award for his inspiration to American youth, the fieldhouse had a record crowd of 5,217 and the Bengal missions had been assured some much-needed aid to carry on their work.
Roemer’s fourth title — one as a middleweight, two as a lightheavy and now as a heavyweight — featured the bouts and brought to a close the career of an all-time Bengal hero. But there were seven other champions and eight worthy challengers, all deserving of their awards and their rankings as the best fighters of the Fighting Irish. Each winner received a trophy after his win, and all finalists get a boxing sweater.
ANDY DOOLEY TAKES HARD RIGHT FROM DON EWING
The heavyweight melee was certainly the best that the division has produced in recent years. All the fight fans had one big question before the battle: Can the mighty Roemer- left knock down the big boys like Gus Cifelli? The South Bend Sleepmaker did knock Gus down for a nine-count in the second round, but he couldn’t knock him out as he has a dozen other Bengal foes. Roemer out-slugged Cifelli all the way to win the nod unanimously.
Zip Carries Action
Roemer was the aggressor from the start. He caught Cifelli with several left hands in the midsection early in the first round, but Gus got in several good right hands himself. In the second, Gus started out with surprising agility before running into two earthquake southpaw socks; the big football tackle fell
to the canvas, took the maximum count, then started tossing the leather again.
The last round saw Roemer bringing his left hand all the way from center-field in an attempt to land that KO blow. Several times he lunged into the ropes after missing haymakers that must’ve created a breeze in the first ten rows. Roemer’s win wasn’t in doubt, for he hit harder and oftener.
Still, Cifelli was never so great as in defeat. He took all Roemer could hand out and looked ready for more at the finish. Roemer will go down as one of the most popular fighters evei- at Notre Dame — a real champion, a fine sportsman and, incidentally, the father of an eight-pound boy Saturday morning.
Ewing Edges Archibald
Don Ewing’s victory over- Joey Archibald in the 127-pound curtain-raiser was the closest match all evening. Archibald did most of the leading in the first round with Ewing being more effective in close. Though there was a lot of missing in the second round, Archibald connected with enough solid lefts to get the margin there. Ewing decided to be the aggressor in the last round and it probably won the fight for him. Near the end, Don swung wildly trying to clinch the verdict with a big punch. The crowd didn’t go for the decision.
The 137-pound finale was a battle of Brooklynites. Joe Sterrett had a good right and left whereas defending champion Jack Griffin had only a good left; that was the difference. Both boys were hit often and were plenty tired at the end. Sterrett’s deadly left jabs and a late rally won the admiration of the fans and two votes from the judges.
Another great Bengal champion, Mike Conley, took one of the three unanimous decisions and the easiest triumph of the night in the 142-pound division. The Boston Irishman left-handed Jim Smith all over the ring. Jim’s, best round was the second. Mike got a bloody nose, his third consecutive Bengal title and a fine ovation.
22
The Scholastic
Vic Roblez was a man they were talking about and a fellow to watch in the future. One of the classiest fighters to show here in years, the freshman from Bingham Canyon, Utah, got the only TKO of the night when the ref halted his battle with Joe Brown at 1:49 of round No. 2. Roblez can hit with either hand, knows how to take a punch and really practices the art of boxing. Joe Brown was no slouch either; he hit back hard and had no desire to quit when they stopped it. Roblez piled up an early lead in business-like fashion before swinging more freely.
Possibly the most popular fighter this year was the new 157-pound title-holder, Ed Smith. The curly-haired lad from Morrissey Hall took a flock of Dick Hyland’s flailing, slapping blows, but when Smitty let loose with that straight right, damage was done. Smith, the aggressor, won all three rounds and a unanimous decision.
Tony Zale consented to referee the 167-pound affair which was won by George Dickson over Paul Boulous. All three rounds of this one were about the same: Dickson did the advancing, landed the most punches and just wasn’t there when Boulous started swinging. Though the decision was split, it was a clearcut win and not deserving of some of the boos that greeted the announcement.
The real surprise came in the 180-pound bracket where Joe Fallon was supposed to win. Joe didn’t though, because his opponent, Mike Merrigan, fought a smart fight and managed to dodge the lethal Fallon right hand for three rounds. Fallon tried desperately, but forgot that a fight can be won on points as well as by a knockout. Merrigan jabbed away -with his left hand and two of the three judges thought he was the winner.
SMITH STOPS FINN'S LEFT
ARCHIBALD COCKS LEFT TO FIRE AT EWING
Thursday Thrillers Lead to Fight Finals
By RAY FITZGERALD
Four thousand fans yelled their appreciation Thursday night as eight fighters battled their way into the final round of the 1949 Bengal Bouts. All the bouts were hard-hitting thrillers with knockdowns, split lips, and bloody noses all over the place.
Bouncing Joe Archibald swarmed all over Sal Fiorella to win a unanimous decision in the 127-pound opener. The left-handed Archibald kept that left flicking in there, and never did give Fiorella a chance to loosen up. Sal concentrated his attack on Archibald’s body but didn’t hit hard enough or often enough to bother his opponent. A left uppercut by Archibald staggered the New York boy in the third round, and he was hanging on at the bell.
Whirlwind Don Ewing started out in his usual tornado-like fashion in the other 127-pound semi, and it looked like an early shower for South Bend’s Dan Brennan. But Brennan, subbing for the injured Tom Kielty, fought back, earned the admiration of the crowd and almost took the fight as well. The early advantage built up by Ewing was just a little too much, though, and he gained a unanimous decision. Brennan was
down three times, but each time he shook it off and came back for more. Ewing had terrific power and speed, and was not afraid to fight.
Joe Sterrett and Russ Van Keuren put on a real slugfest in the first 137-pound semifinal. Van Keuren, a Bengal veteran, was the aggressor at the outset. In the necond round, though, he walked into a terrific right cross thrown by Sterrett. Russ took a count of eight, got up, threw a left, a right, another right, and this time it was Brooklyn Joe who hit the canvas. He came back, though, and in the third round really settled matters. A short right sent Van Keuren reeling, and another floored him again, this time for a nine count. Van Keuren was pretty groggy and tired at the bell. Sterrett won the unanimous decision.
George Chopp showed the effects of three straight nights of fighting, and lost to Jack Griffin by a TKO in 1:09 of the second round. The 137-pound Chopp was more than holding his own up to that point, but seemed to run out of steam. Griffin, a Brooklyn southpaw, was throwing lots of lefts, many of them overshooting their mark, but many of them connecting. The second round had just started when Chopp doubled up in pain. He attempted to continue fighting, but couldn’t stay on his feet. Referee George Nate stopped the fight.
Just before intermission, George Dick-(Continued on Page 26)
April 8, 1949
23
Southern Relays Draw 13 Irish Cindermen As Cream of Thinlies Clash in Birmingham
By JIM HOWARD
Attention
Amateur Hawkshaws!
Thirteen top grade Notre Dame trackmen will battle today and tomorrow in the second annual Southern Relays in Birmingham, Alabama. Approximately 40 schools will be represented in this intersectional clash which will gather the cream of the nation’s track performers for one of their first outdoor trials.
The Irish will probably fare best in the individual events, although the various relay foursomes are not to be disregarded as scoring potentialities. Tall, lithe Bill Fleming who contributed over 100 points to the Notre Dame cause during the indoor schedule will run in the 120-yard high hurdles where as usual he will tangle with the top flight national competitors.
John Helwig has been aiming at the alltime Irish mark in the shot put for some weeks, and is ready now that he has ironed out a few kinks in his form. Notre Dame’s greatest pole vaulter, Jim Miller of Schnectady, N. Y., will be in one of the roughest fields in the outdoor track carnival. A newcomer to the Irish track team, big Jim Murphy will try for honors in the javelin. Coach “Doc” Handy believes the powerful sophomore will be one of the top men in the field. His throws now border on 200 feet.
Sprint Medley Quartet Strong
Strongest Irish foursome in the contest is the sprint medley. This sparkling group will be composed of Paul Schwet-schenau who will run a 440, Ray Sobota who will run a 220, Bob Smith also in a 220, and Captain Bill Leonard in the anchoring half-mile. This combo looms as one of the best, especially since the return to competition of Smith who was injured in the Illinois Tech meet.
The mile relay quartet may function better in outdoor competition according to Handy. He hopes to see the squad under 3:20. This group will be the same as the sprint medley except for the substitution of Pat Kenny for Smith. The final Notre Dame entry is the distance medley, a group consisting of Steve Provost in the quarter, Gerry Johnson in the half, Jim Murphy in the three-quarters and Jim Kittell on the anchoring mile.
There is no team title in the meet, each event championship being the only stimulus to competition.
Irish to Test Spartans Again
Immediately after the Easter vacation, Notre Dame will meet the midwest’s best in a dual encounter at East Lansing. The Michigan State Spartans will battle Southern California next week, while Notre Dame is in the South,
and if they are victorious, should be considered the top track squad in the nation. They already hold that honor for the east and midwest.
Notre Dame will use a full team in its attack on the formidable Michigan State runners, but only if all the Irish run at their former peak will they dump the Spartan speedsters. The local team appears to have more strength in the shot, discus, and javelin than MSC, but this may not be enough to counter the overwhelming Spartan superiority in the running events. The Lansing terrors have already humiliated Ohio State, one of the Big Nine indoor co-champions.
The Michigan State contest will feature clashes between Fleming and Horace Smith, in the hurdles, Jack Dianetti and Bill Leonard in the middle distances, Fred Johnson and Bob Smith in the dashes, and Bill Mack and Jim Murphy in the distance grind.
Swordsmen Close Season With Novice Tournament
The Notre Dame fencing season will close with the freshman tournament to be held April 7, 8, and 9. Twenty-eight freshmen will compete in round-robin matches in foil, epee, and sabre.
Medals will be awarded to the top three swordsmen in each class. The most promising candidates appear to be Louis Barilla, Summers Brown, Augustine Gurrola, and Joe Lang in the foil; Ernie Franzegrote and Jack Varley in the epee; and Charles Daschle, Paul Gibbons, and Jim Graham in sabre.
—Frank Ronnenberg
Bengals
(Continued from Page 21) into the finals only to lose on close decisions. This year eventual champion Joe Sterrett decisioned Russ in the semifinals to steal the Rockford, HL, scrapper’s last chance for a title.	.
Luck was with Jim Martin’s lads in the blue corner this year as they took 24 decisions in 38 bouts. But, fickle gal that she is, Lady Luck switched to the gold corner Saturday night to give five titles to Chuck Waters’ charges.
At a cost of several sore noses, a couple sore throats and the destruction of thousands of bags of peanuts, the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, has presented another profitable production which will soon find expression in the work of the Holy Cross missionaries in India.
We are happy to announce the rules for our mystery contest. With every pair of shoes you buy from us, you get the opportunity to name the mystery man. He’s a campus personality. Name him and win slightly used shoelaces. Hurry, as this offer lasts until 1951. The shoelaces used to belong to Roger O’Keefe, who didn’t like them. The shoes belong to us. We’ll trade them for money.
for further details contact Vern Kelley, 229 Cavanaugh Hall
Dr. Scholl
Foot Comfort Shop
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS. JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modem pipe, with brightly polished alumi^
An Adventure in Good Smoking
24
The Scholastic
Scat-Backs Run Wild In Long Spring Drill
Not even the pessimistic Coach Frank Leahy can complain about a lack of breakaway runners after last Saturday’s big scrimmage at Cartier field. With the firm, dry turf just right for speedsters, Freshmen Billy Barrett and Del Gander ran themselves breathless on long touchdown gallops as the Dotre Dame offensive hit its peak for the spring drills to date.
Barrett, who makes a lot of noise and a lot of yardage, is a sawed-off broken field wizard who has more than enough speed to go all the way. The lankier Gander steps fancy a la Bob Livingstone, and he looks just as fast as Barrett. He specializes on end sweeps with the delayed pitch-outs. Both Barrett and Gander tallied four times.
Just for variety, Bob Williams did some chucking too; the Irish quarterback was close to perfect, hitting on eight of nine passes and just missing on the other. He had three touchdown passes. Leon Hart and Bill Flynn were the best of the targets.
As usual, Scooter Coutre broke the ice in the scrimmage. The chunky redhead weaved 40 yards for the afternoon’s first counter and, a few minutes later, hauled in a Williams heave in the end zone. Williams also pitched to Leon Hart and John Petitbon for TD’s.
Petitbon, another first year man, started at left half and did well. He went over twice on running plays. And Williams pulled a surprise by doing a little fancy ball-toting himself. Baltimore Bob streaked around end for 40 yards on a bootlegger and would have scored if he hadn’t stumbled.
In the line play, Hart, Jim Martin and Fred Wallner were conspicuous on several occasions with their downfield blocking. Steve Oracko started his extra-point booting where he left off in Los Angeles last fall.
Besides Petitbon, new faces in the first eleven were guards Wallner and Paul Burns, a frosh star. Martin and Ralph McGehee played the tackles, Walt Grothaus was at center and Hart and Flynn still held down the terminals.
The backfield opened with Williams, Petitbon, Coutre and Jack Landry. Bill Gay, Mike Swistowicz, Ernie Zalejski, Frank Spaniel and Emil Sitko were out of action. Sitko’s tonsilectomy is expected to keep him from spring practice.
End Willie Wightkin and Jerry Begley, veteran signal-caller, donned uniforms for the first time last week. Begley did a lot of work in the passing drills along with the leading freshman candidates—Tom O’Connell, John Mazur and Tony Rados.—Ralph Wright
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Springtime Crystal Gazing
We see some grounds for Coach Leahy’s prediction that the long undefeated football record of Notre Dame is due to be snapped this fall. What we can’t swallow is his most recent sobbings that five or even seven teams will measure the Irish for that long gloomy defeated look.
Without benefit of the slide-rule or Harry Wismer we spot three teams that have the best chance to do what no college team has been able to do since 1942 — defeat Notre Dame. Purdue, North Carolina and Iowa are our choice for the honor, if any are to be given out this fall. It isn’t over-enthusiasm about the ability of one Choo-Choo Justice or respect for the old Iowa jinx, nor any squeamish feelings about the “mystery” of Purdue’s 1948 performance — it’s all centered in a railroad timetable.
Stu Holcomb’s Boilermakers meet Notre Dame the Saturday following the long trip of the Irish to Seattle and travel fatigue will slow down Leahy’s lads. Add to that Purdue’s strong desire to reverse that one-point decision they lost last fall and you have the makings of the event the sportwriters have been waiting for — an Irish defeat.
North Carolina will also catch the Irish after some extensive traveling. Trips to Baltimore and East Lansing immediately precede the Tarheel contest and the ride to New York won’t help the Irish relax any. But Eddie Anderson’s boys are really in luck. The three trips above keep the Irish busy almost up to game time with Iowa; neither Navy, Michigan State nor North Carolina will furnish a “breather” for Notre Dame. The Hawkeye jinx has everything in its favor.
On the other hand Indiana, Navy and Southern California should be prepared to meet a strong, fresh, hard-hitting Irish eleven. No we can’t see seven losses on the record next fall. We can see two at the most and a couple more scrimmages like last Saturday and we’ll even change that verdict and start predicting another undefeated season.
Musings at Halftime
When the requests for tickets to the North Carolina game dwindled to five
and six a day, Bob Cahill, Notre Dame ticket manager, decided this is the time to take a short vacation in Florida. All 12,000 requests were returned pending opening of sales this summer. No one seems to be enthusiastic about our proposal for May 7. The tennis team will also play host to Detroit that day. It will be a shame to let any of that activity go to waste when some judicious time .arrangements would give the track, tennis and football teams their fair share of spectators. How about it, Coach Krause, think we can get classes excused and the times staggered to permit attendance at all three events?
We have news for Les Etter, publicity man for Michigan. Your Wolverines were not the “First in the Nation” in 1947. The regular AP vote went to Notre Dame. It was understood that the unofficial poll taken after your questionable slaughter of USC had no pretense of authenticity. Your recent football press release indicates that you aren’t adverse to stretching the truth a bit. Check and see who has the Williams trophy, Mr. Etter—it certainly isn’t in your trophy case.
SPORTS CALENDAR
APRIL 8 TO APRIL 30
April 8—TRACK, Southern Relays at Birmingham, Alabama
8,9—BASEBALL at Indiana
11,12—BASEBALL, Iowa here
13—BASEBALL. Cincinnati here
14,16—BASEBALL at Ohio State
17—BASEBALL at Terre Haute GOLF at Washington (St. Louis)
18—BASEBALL at Terre Haute
20,21—BASEBALL. Wisconsin here
22,23—BASEBALL, Minnesota here
23—TRACK at Michigan State GOLF, Wisconsin here 25—GOLF, Purdue here 26—BASEBALL, Purdue here 27—BASEBALL at Michigan 29—TENNIS at Purdue
29,30—BASEBALL at Illinois
TRACK, Drake Relays at Des Moines
30—TENNIS, Northwestern here GOLF at Indiana SAILING at Michigan
April 8, 1949
25
3 leading questions
Name of a Boston ball park . . . also one of Arrow's famous button-down oxfords.
Bengals
(Continued from page 23) son, 165-pounder from Pasadena and Vic Roblez, at a slim 148, from Bingham Canyon, Utah, put on an exhibition match. Both boys knew their way around and put on a slick show of boxing. Roblez had a flicking left jab that bothered Dickson, while George was his usual clever defensive self, slipping
Q. What is "Sussex"?
A. Name of a British county . .. also Arrow's famous widespread collar oxford shirt.
ZIP'S LEFT MISSES GUS
A. Broccoli is a vegetable...
■J also Brockly is Arrow's regular ■Z collar oxford shirt.
Q. What is "Brockly"?
Ask your Arrow dealer for Arrow Gordon Oxfords . . . $3.95
ARRO W
$	SHIRTS and TIES	g
S UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS J <\\W.W.V.V.\\\%V.7ASS\\\W.V.W.T.V.W.WW
Rvsb & K^TZ
1 V AO/? MEN AND A VrOtWG MEN
ARROW Shirts
smoothly out of several tight situations. Roblez, who threw twice as many punches, probably had the better of the
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
★
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
26
The Scholastic
fight. However, there was no decision, as the bout was an exhibition. Both Roblez and Dickson are already in the t finals of their respective weight class, and this fight was just a tune-up foi’ Saturday.
Dick Hyland and Ed Smith entered the 157-pound finals by punching out wins over Jim Engel and Dan Finn, respectively. Hyland, fighting for the third straight night, started slowly, but took over in the second round. Although diminishing the effectiveness of his right hand by slapping instead of punching, Hyland swarmed all over Engel in that second round, and that won him the fight. Both boys tired in the third round, and Engel had Hyland on the ropes at
the bell. The split decision was the first and only one on the night’s card. Ed Smith, one of the crowd’s favorites, had his hands full with rugged Dan Finn from New York. The first round was the usually cautious one, with Finn getting in a terrific right at the bell. Dan began to tire, though, and continually clinched, slowing up the action. Smith began throwing lefts to the head in the third, and then shifted his attack to the body. Finn went down for a nine count late in the third, and was exhausted at the bell. Smith won a unanimous decision.
Probably the dullest fight of a very exciting ' evening was the 177-pound match between lanky Mike Merrigan
and Don Mahrt. Mahrt was on the defensive most of the time, and it was Merrigan’s aggressive tactics that won him the unanimous nod. In the third round, Mike shook his opponent up with a hard right and left; Mahrt refused to go on the offensive and this cost him the fight.
As usual, the final bout was a dilly. In this one Joe Fallon, who played the fall guy in last year’s bouts, showed what practice can do. He took a unanimous decision from South Bend’s popular Bill Sheehan, and looked very good in winning. Joe had a great left jab, and kept sticking it in Bill’s face, meanwhile coming across with hard rights. The combination was too much.
4b -AIR COACH
Air Travel at Practically Rail Coach Fares!
DESTINATION	FARE	TIME	FASTEST RAIL COACH
DETROIT	58.95	1 hr. 20 mm.	5 hrs. 10 min. FARE $8.34
CLEVELAND	512.95	2 hrs. 22 ■■■.	5 hrs. 50 min. FARE $10.28
WASHINGTON	524.30	4 hrs. 55 mm.	15 hrs. 40 min. FARE $23.03
PITTSBURGH	516.80	2 hrs. 15 am.	8 hours FARE $14.10
NEW YORK	529.60	4 hrs. 15 ■!■.	16 hrs. 25 min. FARE $27.30
(All Foret pint Tax)			
/Capital
• W	! AIRLINES
In Chicago ... FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 S. Clark St. &
Stevens Hotel & The Palmer House or travel agent.
_	PHONE: DEARBORN 2>5711
27
April 8, 1949
Shadow and Substance
(Continued from Page 9) theme — the triumph of simple faith over intellectual pride — holds just as true today as it did twelve years ago. It is the story of how godliness shines out of the little people as contrasted with the haughty snobbishness of the prissy Canon Skerritt.
The play itself is woven around the legend of St. Brigid (who is reflected in the character of the housekeeper); it relates how, in order to escape the attentions of persistent suitors, she disfigured the loveliness of her face. Sker-ritt’s housekeeper, who has visions of her patron saint, is the epitomization of child-like humility and virtue in the plot, while the canon is the picture of unbearable intellectual pride. The highly pleasing comedy elements of the drama come with the conflicts between Canon Skerritt and the lesser curates of his parish.
Names Student Assistants
Already Director Hanley has laid elaborate plans for this spring production. He has named James Beymer his assistant director who, with stage manager Pat McAteer, will supervise the behind the scenes aspects of the play. Sound effects also will be their problem, and in Shadow and Substance there are many, such as street riot noises, Angelus bells and the sounds of crowds.
By assigning students to these responsible positions Mr. Hanley plans “to give more experience to those people who would want to make the theater a career.” Also plans are underway to reproduce the authenticity of the settings; a room in the Canon’s house in Ardama-hone, County Louth, Ireland, with the Moume Hills in the background.
According to Hanley, the play “is one of the most ambitious we have undertaken, and the results should be gratifying.” Already Shadow and Substance begins to shape up as a fine production. The director is pleased with his cast, and the play, as George G. Nathan, eminent drama critic, puts it, “shows him (Paul Vincent Carroll, the author) to be the possessor of a sharp wit and lyric personality, both of which he is expert in dovetailing into this valid drama.”
'SCHOLASTIC' STAFF MEETING
Due to the Easter vacation, this will be the last issue of the "Scholastic" until April 29. On Thursday, April 21, there will be a meeting of all members of the news staff at 12:30 pan. in Boom 120 of the Main Building, next to the Publications Office.
AD EXEC LECTURES
Mr. Dalton J. O'Sullivan, advertising manager of the by-products division of Armour & Co., lectured this week to Professor Brooks Smeeton's advanced advertising class. He outlined the relationship of an advertising department to the advertising agency which handles their account.
University to Sponsor Writers' Conference Here
With the purpose of assembling interested writers in special sessions with well-established authors and critics, Notre Dame will hold a Writers’ Conference from June 27 to July 2. By this session, the University hopes to provide an opportunity for actual or potential authors to discuss questions ranging from the actual writing of prose or poetry to the marketing of manuscripts.
The Conference will consist of three workshops: Poetry, Short Fiction, and the Novel. No specific prerequisites are required beyond a genuine interest, and some degree of competence, in writing. Anyone interested in writing may register for the Conference, whether he intends to submit manuscripts or not. Early application is desirable. For an individual workshop the fee is ten dollars; for all three, the charge is twenty-five dollars.
Three members of the Conference staff—John T. Frederick, Richard Sullivan, and John Frederick Nims — are from the University’s Department of English. Participating as guests will be Jesamyn West, author of such works as The Friendly Persuasion and A Mirror for the Sky, and Henry T. Volken-ing, literary agent and critic, who is associated with the firm of Russell and Volkening, New York.
Lodging will be available for both
men and women at ten dollars a week for a single room. Of particular interest to summer session students is the fact that the schedule is arranged so that they may attend one or more of the workshops, all of which will meet at hours coinciding with the regular Summer School schedule. However, no academic credit is to be given for any of the workshops.—Charley Dullea
Washington Hall Showing Of 'La Traviafa' Slated
The Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series, in cooperation with the Press Club 1949 Film Series, will present a screen version of Giuseppe Verdi’s Opera La Traviata in Washington Hall this Sunday, April 10. The film is sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series, but was brought to the campus at the instigation of the Press Club. Showings for the one-day stand will be at 2:00 in the afternoon, and at 6:40 and 8:45 in the evening.
The film is a screen adaptation of the famous Italian Opera La Traviata written by the composei- Giuseppe Verdi and adapted from the story by Alexander Dumas. This screening of the classic was produced by Carmine Galione, and the orchestra, chorus and ballet troupe are from the Royal Theatre of Rome.
Each showing will be open to the general student body and the faculty.
ND College of Engineering Named to Research Council
New honors were accorded the ND College of Engineering this week when it was accepted for membership in the Engineering Research Council of the American Society for Engineering. The Council was organized during World War II to further advanced study in engineering and to coordinate industrial and scientific research.
Membership is limited to colleges and universities which have engaged in research for at least three years prioi* to application and during this period have spent at least $10,000 on these projects. At the present time, sixty individual problems are under investigation here at the University.
CORRECTION
Capt. J. M. Daly is the marine procurement officer for this area instead of Capt. W. E. Haverty as was erroneously reported in March 18's Bulletin Board. Details concerning the Marine opportunities for college men can be obtained from Capt. Daly in the Drill Hall.
28
The Scholastic
Geology Dept. Ready To Move to New Site
The Geology Department has revealed that it expects to move into its new quarters in the Main Building within a month. The new site for the department, which was formerly lodged in the Biology Building, will be the specially remodeled south wing of the third floor of the Main Building. Only the delivery of custom-built laboratory tables and storage cabinets stands in the way of immediate occupation of the new quarters.
Main feature of the department’s site will be a general laboratory for forty students. The rest of the 4500 square feet of floor space will be taken up with an advanced lab designed for specialization in minerology, optical crystallography and petrology, two classrooms, a departmental library with a capacity of 4000 volumes, foui- offices housing the staff, and a map room.
Accompanying the change in quarters, a revision of the curriculum has been announced by Dr. Archie MacAlpin. A new course in freshman geology offers a three-hour lecture period, in place of the old two-hour lecture, and emphasis will be placed in the future on scientific principles rather than on Geological detail. A geology major will have, in conjunction with the freshman course, a two-hour laboratory period.
The department, which specializes in petroleum geology, is currently making a study of the sub-surface region of the Michiana area.
Look to
^GILBERT'S 813-817 S. Michigan Street
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
bold collegian!
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
The Van Hensen Van Bold in 11 springtime shades and white.
§3.95
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
AUMVmVWVU'VVWl'UWniVVWtVVVllWVVWWW
bold colors...bold collar
It’s smart, it’s daring, it’s boldly handsome—the new Van Bold shirt in eleven campus-acclaimed colors and white! Van Bold has just what you asked for this spring— wide-spread collar ... new half-inch stitching ... extra wide center pleat... French or single cuffs. And of course, Van Heusen magic sewmanship, tug-proof buttons, and laboratory-tested fabrics. A new shirtfree if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Other Van Heusen shirts $2.95 and up.
Van Hensen* 1-.
the world’s smartest OUU IO
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
29
April 8, 1949
Chemists in Pictures
How Du Pont and studio scientists solved the problem of noisy film
Who’d ever expect to find Du Pont chemists in Hollywood? When motion pictures suddenly started to talk, a whole new series of perplexing scientific problems was bom, not the least of which was "noisy” film.
As you know, sound is usually recorded directly on film. If you hold a strip of motion picture film to She light, the sound track is seen as a narrow band of irregular lines. A light ray passing through the moving sound track falls on a photocell with rapid interruptions or changes in intensity. The photocell converts these interruptions into electrical impulses which, amplified, reach the theater audience as voice and music.
If the film has a coarse grain structure, it tends to give lines that are not sharp and uniform in density. Such irregularities interrupt the light ray—come out as distracting noise.
What could be done about it? Du Pont scientists of the Photo Products Department started a program of research, in cooperation with tech-
Don’t miss reading this new booklet about Du Pont
Send for your copy of ‘"The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” This fully illustrated. 40 page booklet answers your questions, describes many fields which may be new to you. Tells about opportunities in research production, sales, etc. Explains how ability is assured. For
free copy, address: 2518 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
nical experts from the studios in Hollywood. They made and tested scores of film coatings. Finally there were developed films of exceedingly fine grain structures.
M-G-M and Paramount were among the first to use the new type Du Pont films. The development was heralded by the press as "another milestone in the technical progress of the industry,’’and in 1943 Du Pont
Voice and music appear as a continuous band of irregular lines on this movie sound track. Any irregularity means noise.
received an Academy Award of Merit for its achievement. Now the use of fine grain films is practically universal in Hollywood. Actors, actresses speak their lines, with no technical restrictions to cramp their artistry.
You may have a place in Du Pont research
Had you been a member ofa Du Pont Photo Products research team since 1931, you might have shared in many
Achievements of Du Pont scientists over the years have won two "Oscars” from Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
W. L. Fey, Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry, Clark University, 1947, and A. C. Lapsley, Ph.D. in Physics, Virginia, 1947, discussing details of Color Densitometer Wiring Diagram used in connection with research on color photography.
outstanding achievements, two of which have been recognized by "Oscars.”
In coarse vain films, the particles of silver are large and scattered. Compare with Du Pont fine grain film, right. {Magnified 1000 times.)
The Photo Products Department, however, is just one of ten Du Pont manufacturing departments, all of which engage in continuous research. Operated much like separate companies, each holds challenging opportunities for young, college-trained chemists, engineers and physicists. Du Pont not only tries to select young men and women of promise, but makes a conscientious effort to help each one develop as rapidly as possible. Whatever your interests, you will find here the cooperation and friendly interest you need to do your best. As a member of a small, congenial working team, your ability can be seen, recognized and rewarded.
REG. U.S. PAT. Off-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
P * T E 0 DAY 'c De Pon- Qomscn, ana 'he College GroCuc'e
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
30
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) the low end of the week. Also, even though Name Withheld writhes at this evidence of my culture, De gustibus non est disputandiim; some of us are not so sure that a true definition of “art” is equivalent to “reality.”
Yours truly for more jousting, NAME WITHHELD, II
Ode to a Neon Sign
Editor:
The query I directed A month ago to you, At last received an answer— I’m really grateful, too.
That elf brought back my neon Sign; and peace reigns again, From ND’s Golden Dome, to The street called Michigan.
That sign’s red glow, you must know, Does more than hustle coke;
By its light, most any night, I take on study’s yoke.
It’s a burden much hated, But what am I to do?
Without its load I’d ne’er pass History twenty-two.
But with thanks I’ll also read Your mag, and, I presume, I’ll read it ’stead of studies— ’Til some prof drops the boom.
The Coke Spirte Jim Carroll Off-Campus
Collosal Catastrophe
Editor:
It is not too unusual to find “Murray” spelled, with a “ph” (p. 10, March 25 issue), but whoever told Reporter Rosen-garten that Morrissey is spelled o-f-f-c-a-m-p-u-s? Maybe he was thinking of Farley.
Tom Murray 163 Morissey
Maybe life had, lost its meaning for him and he just didn’t care anymore.— Editor
Why Closed Practice?
Editor:
Why the closed practice on the second day of spring football? I’m sure I speak for many other students in saying that I have been looking forward to watching the team practice this spring.
Of course Mr. Leahy wants to keep secret his best plays etc. and keep the practice field from being cluttered up
with spectators, but certainly no student is spying for an opponent.
Could not Mr. Leahy concede us the privilege of watching from a distant area, upon presentation of a student identification card?
Please think about it, Mr. Leahy.
John Phillips Off-Campus
Shadow and Substance
Editor:
Now there is a choice for any ambitious theatre group—Shadow and Substance! It has human significance. It has real conflict. It is difficult enough to challenge. It is old enough to have been before the time of many, sufficiently forgotten by others to be enjoyed with the
WHY CAST ABOUT?
Best Catch of the Season is your Douglas Tan Blucher Oxford with the full double Sole.
Come in and try on a pair.
Doiu^at Shoes
W. I. DOUGLAS/sHOE CO., BROCKTON T5, MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Mail Orders Filled Promptly
spoiling taste of a remembered staging or movie. It should create discussion of its substance, and not about its froth.
(Rev.) Philip L. Hanley, O.P.
Geographic Clubs
Editor:
Since apparently there is no hope of receiving an answer requiring intelligence from Max A Browser, I turn to you.
The case against any large scale organization of the city clubs seems to be strong and obvious, thus:
1)	The city clubs are primarily a social function having their major activities not on the campus but in their respective cities. Practically all meetings while at school are used to plan these
April 8, 1949
31

Two things every college ma,n should know!
Always happy to paddle other people’s
canoes. Spends days in haze. College is mostly Greek to him. Rushes ...
for a nManhattan” Fraternity Sportshirt.
Sportshirt. Properly initiated with
authentic fraternity insignia and pins. Also gets straight "A’s” for smart tailoring and easy fit.
In washable cotton-rayon mixture.
Choice of exclusive "Manhattan” colors.
CAMPUS FAVORITE

activities. Except for an occasional communion. breakfast and steak dinner and the Mardi Gras, there is little interest in or time for anything else.
2)	The one and only common interest of the members of the individual club is home. The attendance at the fortnightly meeting is haphazard, the one drawing card being threat of exclusion from plans. Since the clubs are individually so loosely held together, to form some central committee would be to create a hodgepodge of less than nothing, with no visible goal.
3)	Practically every member of these clubs belongs to at least one other organization, professional or otherwise, which presents papers, lectures, etc. This seems to be as much as the traffic will bear.
4)	Why go to all the effort of starting a central governing body for the city clubs when one already exists—the Student Council. If it is so necessary for these clubs to dabble in politics, let each one send a delegate, representing a vote, to the Council. This would eliminate a duplication of staff and competition, which in this case would retard any resultant progress. . . .
This is essentially what was previously said to Mr. Browser, with the exception of (4). Any sincere comment will be appreciated.
Oliver A. Hinsman
St. Louis Club
No pro or con comment from the editor yet. We prefer to wait until we see what arrangements the Student Council and the Administration makes for the handling of club finances, a matter which is still hanging fire. What happens to the money will do much to determine the future status of the geographic clubs. We do think though, that somebody ought to put a little more starch into the clubs. At last count there were something like 110 student organizations on the campus. Judging from the activity of some of them, an awful lot of organizational energy is going to waste.—Editor
April Fool?
Editor:
Usually I am very depressed after my Scholastic has been eagerly read. Today I’m on the verge of suicide. The issue of March 25, 1949, carried some hope to the reader when you stated in your “From the Editor’s Desk” column that we might look forward to something a little different in the April 1 issue.
“Jack,” I say to myself, says I, “maybe a little satire from the Scholastic about the Scholastic might be interesting.” Anything would be more in-
32
The Scholastic
teresting than the sour cynicism of your feature writers who seem to have a fetish for tearing down everything and building nothing.
I’ll grant that those of us hopefuls who actually expected you to publish the Bombastic were the victims of your “April Fools” trap. How clever you are! Instead of publishing a better, more original Scholastic, you were very successful in your attempt to victimize us with an exceedingly dull waste of paper. Touche! (?)
It breaks my heart to admit it, but I’ll have to jump on the band-wagon with those admirers of the art of Messrs. Ferstel, Gorman, Rumely & Co.
Their covers do a wonderful job of adorning an empty shell.
Jack Stanton
413 St. Edward’s
Renaissance Architecture
Editor:
Let the Architects’ Club wrangle with Mr. Vierhile about the Children’s Hospital; I am concerned for the honor of the South Bend Courthouse. For, if you must have public buildings built in Renaissance style, and heaven knows there are enough of them, this one seems to me to be a pretty good example, sensible and well-proportioned.
For a really horrible example of that style, Mr Vierhile should have chosen the Indiana State Capitol at Indianapolis, which is bad enough even to help explain the recent session of the Indiana legislature.
Faithfully,
O’Dulford McMememy 122 Main
Pioneer in Science
The Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., priest-scientist at Notre Dame, discovered the basic formula for synthetic rubber in the Notre Dame chemistry laboratories in 1906.
CAREERS at GENERAL ELECTRIC
General Electric is not one business, but an organisation of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G-E men brief the career* possibilities for the business trainee, the technical graduate, and the chemist.
FROM BTC TO TREASURER ■
J. D. Lockton (Michigan), G-E Treasurer: “As an alumnus of our Business Training Course, I consider it one of the best avenues by which liberal arts or business administration graduates can enter into a business career at General Electric. Every year sees BTC-trained men rise to positions of real responsibility with the company.”
GRADUATES
K. B. McEachron, Jr. (Purdue), Manager, Technical Education Div.: “There’s no substitute for on-the-job experience. So we have carefully planned our educational programs to include ‘learning by doing.’ A wide variety of courses are open to those wanting to extend their studies, whether they are engineers, physicists, chemists, metallurgists.”
CHEMICAL WRITER -
Tony Forni (R.P.I.) of the G-E Chemical Dept.: “At General Electric I’ve combined my interest in chemistry—I’m a chemical engineer—with an interest in advertising. Result: I handle promotion of the new synthetic called silicones. As new products are developed, there’s many an opening in this technical side of G-E advertising.”
For furthor information about a BUSINESS CA*EE* wMb Gooonl Batfric, unite Iwmu Trai«r»j Course SthoMtteiy—a caroor io TECHMGlt HEID& writ* Tatbnitai Ponannd DMuon, SdmnocteJy, H. If. GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
9 I 9 I 9 I 9 I 9 I 9
April 8, 1949
33
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
Flaming Letters Dawn
This will be, we can hope, the column to end all columns on campus clubs.
Our effort of March 11 caused a waterfall of letters, the latest of which you can find this week in the section reserved for such things. What makes them noteworthy and particularly pertinent to us is that they are all from officers of campus clubs.
They show that there are clubs on this campus doing things the way we’d like to see them done; that there are club officers who deserve their positions — who are interested enough in their groups to spring to their defense. This is a wonderful sign, something like the first robin of Spring. If flaming letters dawn, can action be far behind? We hope not.
We respect the men who wrote them. We could hope that all campus clubs had among their membership more of these spirited souls. But we must take exception to some of their remarks.
From the Detroit Club and their prexy Bill Anhut came the charge that while “beating our brains out” about this situation we had overlooked some very fine club activities. We did not. We never made the claim that every campus club was dead, or that there were no decent activities inspired by them. Mr. Anhut went on to give us a little pep talk to the tune of “this ‘union of clubs under a central committee’ . . . sounds big time . . . it’s your ball . . . what are you going to do — pass, lateral or run?” We intend to score touchdowns, and the play to do it with will be diagrammed below.
The officers of the Aesculapians were “astounded” by my comments on clubs. Their claim was that we were not aware of all the things being done by clubs. They suggested that they — and all club officers — were open to “constructive” criticism. We have offered much of the same in the past. We will offer more in a few paragraphs.
Finally, Mr. Oliver Hinsman opened up again this week in retaliation against our none-too-gentle handling of said Mr. Hinsman here two weeks ago. We beg of him to bear with us for just one more
column and let us try to prove that clubs can and should be organized into a central unit.
For the Defense
Our opening salvo on campus clubs was fired in the Oct. 1 issue of this magazine. Then we said that campus clubs were “a failure,” that they did not “do enough.”
In the light of recent events, we can but second that motion. We firmly and heatedly reject the theory that campus clubs are nothing more than “social organizations” and that they are doomed to mediocrity. Campus clubs primarily justify their -existence by banding together all ND students from a certain geographical area to make their stay at Notre Dame more pleasant and more profitable to them. If they fail in this, they have no reason to exist. Now the pleasant side is taken care of by these social functions — beer brawls and picnics, etc. These are all right and fine. They have a definite and essential place in a club program. This still leaves the profitable phase.
How can a campus club be profitable to its members? We’d say that the first way is by representing him with the home alumni club. Through this association, campus clubs can provide a job placement service for the students here and make contacts for them at home. Secondly, a campus club can be an educational and cultural medium for their members by offering guest speakers, films, etc. This is a start.
This leads us into the central committee idea, also discussed in the Oct. 1 issue.
What can a central committee do? It can: 1) act as a representative of the clubs with the Student Senate, the Student body and the Administration; 2) help weak sister clubs, grant them loans to get them on their feet, advise them on constitutions, promotion, etc.; 3) increase campus activity by backing and pushing big guest lecturers, forums, dances, club field days, special shows — all activities too big for individual clubs to handle.
The committee idea is workable. The objection of unequal power and representation which has been thrown up is an admission of an irreparable technical deficiency of organization which we cannot accept. The argument that clubs would have to surrender much cherished sovereignty is, to us, equally indefensible. Clubs would still act on their own, still control the committee, but act under the committee when a group effort was called for.
If all this isn’t clear, if we have yet to convince club presidents of the feasibility of this plan, we can only go a step further. We can only offer to talk this out with any and all of them — privately or before their gathered club membership. We think it important enough to warrant this. We feel something half-dormant could be turned into something vitally alive through the adoption of this plan. We hope many will agree.
can Plan rates 58.00 and tip.
WILDERNESS CO^ In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region Complete outfitting service *3.50 a day with Grum-nan aluminum canoes. Food, your choice—extra. Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lo and 20 log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. Ameri*

Otff ITTfR^^
■MBM ELY.. MINNESOTA
RARE OPPORTUNITY!
Study... Travel
.SPAIN
BARCELONA GROUP 65 Days June 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 Days July 2, 1949
Sponsored by:
UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
For Information Write
Spanish Student Tours
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
34
The Scholastic
Cagjafia 1949. Ikgett & Mnu Toucto Co.