MARCH 7, 1952
BASKETBALL —1951-52
HOW MANY TIMES A MY
DO YOU INHALE ?
5O?][lOO?j:[2OO?j
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT ANSWER IS OVER 200!

Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING ► Philip Morris!
*°*e smo&
7	PROVED definitely milder . . .
W PROVED definitely less irritating than 1	any other leading brand . . .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow ... you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
£ PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
Editor:
As long as there has been so much discussion on that institution known as the “honor system”, maybe it should be examined closely as to its operation.
I, personally, believe that there' is no more honor in the “honor system” than any other one. If an individual is honest under one system, he will be honest under all others. If he refrains from cheating under the proctor system because of fear of discovery, he will refrain from cheating in the honor system for the same reason. The only difference is that he will fear his fellow stu-dent rather than the proctor.
How about the one who reports the offender? This is of course, assuming that there is one. Is he doing so because he is bound to do so out of honor, or because he feels his grades will be lower than the grades of those who do cheat?
I don’t know of anyone who is actually motivated by honor in this system more than any other.
If what I have said is true, what would be the object of changing systems? If I am mistaken, I would appreciate someone putting me straight.
Gary Stevenson 163 Morrissey
Toohey Says Thanks
After every notable activity of the campus it seems almost obligatory for the Chairman; or persons responsible, to write a letter to the editor of the Scholastic thanking all those who contributed to the success (or failure) of the function. I have said this in order that I might point out the fact that this letter is written, not because it’s the thing to do, or expected, but because it is a letter so sincerely forthcoming.
It would be impossible for me to give credit to all those deserving it for the 1952 Mardi Gras, and for this reason. The Mardi Gras is probably the only social event in our calendar which depends to such a degree on so many. It is one in which everyone participates, and one in which everyone should share the bows. It is for this reason that I sincerely thank—you, administrators, students, and faculty, for making this year’s Mardi Gras the success it was. You did it—you deserve the credit.
Sincerely, Bill Toohey Mardi Gras General Chairman
There’s no better-looking, more comfortable, all purpose shirt on campus!
ARROW BI-WAY
Collar open, it assures you a trim look—closed, and with a tie, you still enjoy sports-shirt comfort!
ARROW »»---------------
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
March 7. 1952
3


-V
V
Honor System Again
Bill Riley:
Your article in “The Back Page” of the February 29 Scholastic seems to me to hit the nail on the head. In regard to an honor system, I feel that it is out of place now. There is nothing wrong with the honor code, except that it is in direct opposition to the one we have. You are quite right. I feel that if we were to receive the honor code, it
A— 'T"
i ™L [ I ..V
would have to cover all phases of school life, not just exams. A half way introduction would be nothing more than a farce.
.i-xi
i
:__________
___________zy^g^Ql^"-	...
....... aou./yvjtole)	W?.. \ 
.....  y $ouAz	0^ '
......^4Xavc C^O<*Az >£<A^	....J
......-f
________
-----------'TwOm;*Zk^/	)--^~! I
To coin an old expression, it would j -separate the man from the boys. I feel that anyone who could not adjust him- = | self to the honor system, after a period t 1 of one or two months, does not belong ? in this, or any other university. This 5 is just a paraphrase of the last para- E graph on page 14 of the student manual. Many feel that it would require -J
too much time and work to change over to the honor code, due to the lack of Student Council power and the set
y upjsgH CEMTVRy
z.iin	6^^3?^
views of the university. But I sincerely think that if the honor code were instituted next semester, it could be made to work, if it had the support of the majority and the administration.
Sincerely, Gene Marquette 217 St. Ed’s.
‘What Ails the Engineers?'
Editor:
. . . (Paged through Friday’s issue) until the bold type of “What Ails the Student Council?” hit me.
After reading the article I thought to myself “What ails the engineers?”
PHILLirS-JONES C O K F . , NEW YORK 1, N . Y.
.The' engineering enrollment here comprises approximately one-fourth of the student body, yet there is no specific engineer on the Council to represent
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
that group. Representation (Garvin’s main fault number two) is surely lacking. We must remember that due to a common ground, the engineering school is a much closer-knit college than the others. We have a tendency to stick together—with our slide rules and log tables.
Therefore, in the future, it is the wish of the engineers not to be forgotten by the Master Plan Committee. For all the mechanism, we’re not such a bad group and naturally when our
toes are stepped on we howl. Let’s have a representative to whom we can howl. Robert W. Wagner 156 Dillon Hall
You haven’t been forgotten. If the
proposed neiv constitution (noiv in the planning stage see page H) is accepted
(Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
^'•7

•t:
Top of the Week
Does the foam on your five glasses of milk taste different lately? . . .
The Long Wait
This is that period of the academic year which is aptly called “the long wait”. The Mardi-Gras is over and done with, the basketball season is history, there are no Saturday night dances, the weather is more “bush” than ever—and we are driven to holding ourselves up in our rooms to wait out the long five J weeks till Easter.
A New Era in Radio
Well, the inevitable happened last Friday night when WND finally spliced the wire leading to St. Mary’s. The “campus voice” went a little hoarse at the beginning of the ceremony, or so the lady listeners report; but after all, that’s to be expected on an opening night and a little laryngitis never hurt anyone, anyway.
I suppose we will have to expect several innovations in programming’ from here on in; but nevertheless a barrel of orchids should go to Messrs. Byrne, Saul, Frediani and Noonan, who, as station technical engineers, worked many and many a long day and night to extend WND’s listening area. Only the future can answer whether these gentlemen will go down in glory or " ignominy for bridging the highway. I can hardly wait!
Poetry Corner
Little cuts from classes
Little slips marked “late” Make the senior wonder If he’ll graduate.
The Hunt Is On!
Someone who subscribes to such things passed us along a copy of one of the late editions of the Saint Mary's Static, which could be called, among other things, the official publication of SMC students.
We perused its contents briefly and hurriedly passed it right back to our donor friend before anyone should see us. But we were struck immediately with the sharpness and timeliness of the news stories therein, and particularly Gwith a bright little feature article with -the somewhat terrifying title, “Hunting Season Opens!”
By Jack Hynes
This particular article was not refer-ing to the opening of the pheasant and grouse season in Muskegon, Michigan, friend, but to the “open season on men”, and especially Notre Dame men during this, the Leap Year.
The author, obviously a crafty gal with no little experience behind her, sets down three simple steps for her fellow-hunters which we here summarize in order that you might recognize the signs when they appear.
Step One—“Ply your man with homecooking . . . send him cakes and cookies and roast-beef sandwiches ... a good cook makes a good wife.” This would never work of course, we’re too well fed here as it is. But if they try to force you just claim you have a peptic ulcer and only eat Shredded Wheat and cream. Just let them try sending you Shredded Wheat and cream—hah!
Step Two—“Convince him of your thrift . . . don’t order heavily when he takes you out to dinner.” Solution—
An Effective Way to Stop the Clock!
But It Won’t Give YOU the Extra Hours You Need For Study
Learn now how you can double your reading rate and improve your comprehension. See Bill
‘ Fleming in 235 Alumni for all the information.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle	South Bend, Ind.	Phone 3-0077
Don’t give them half a chance here— don’t take them to dinner at all, just go on long walks and discuss Marcel Proust. You’ll either starve her or bore her to death.
Step Three—“Invite him to your home for a weekend and impress him with your housekeeping prowess”. This is the move you have to watch out for. Many a brave man has gone down in defeat because of one of these weekend visits. Avoid them like the plague, tell her you just broke your leg, that you’re a pyromaniac, anything, but don’t go home with her to mother. But there is an answer if you have to go. Make yourself obnoxious. Drop your ashes on the rugs. Sleep till three. Call her father- “Mac.” Complain at her mother’s cooking. The idea is to make her folks hate you; then she’ll hate you— blood is thicker than water, you know.
If you just keep a sharp eye peeled at all times you will avoid falling into any of the snares propounded in the Static. But actually you can’t get caught; you’re smarter than they are, remember that. Besides, most of the Women of the Western World over there couldn’t catch cold in a drafty steam cabinet, let alone hook you, my friend. Viva la Bachelorhood!
Bottom of the Week
... small wonder, there’s more of it!
March 7, 1952
5
MARCH 7
PALACE (two days)—The farce Good Night Ladies, a light comedy, with performances Friday and Saturday night at 8:30 and Saturday afternoon at 3.
MARCH 8
FIELDHOUSE—Central Collegiate Track Meet with heats in afternoon starting at 1:30 and finals starting at 7:30 in evening.
WASHINGTON HALL—Mitzi Gaynor in Golden Girl.
MARCH 9
PALACE (to March 13)—Okinaiva is, logically enough, a story about the battle of Okinawa, seen from the deck of a U. S. destroyer with Cmdr. Patrick O’Brien, USN, commanding. The men had hoped to return to the states as soon as the invasion phase was completed but orders were to stay and see the whole show. This they did, and in doing so, exhibited their bravery in fighting off Kamikaze planes. And yet when the battle is finally won, it looks as though they’ll have to stay behind and clean up the mess. It’s a brand-new picture anyhow. The co-feature, The First Time (A-2) is a study in family disorganization and required seeing for all sociology majors as part fulfillment of the requirements for an AB degree. The source of all this disorganization is a guest about to descend on the household of a young married couple. The problem: where are we going to get the money to take care of this lad? It makes for a pleasant movie.
MARCH 11
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—First session of the’ 1952 Marriage Institute. Father Hesburgh will talk on “Courtship and Engagement.” Starting time: 7:30. Admission: $0.50 for the entire series.
FIELDHOUSE (three days)—Bengal Bout preliminaries. Starting time: 8 p.m.
MARCH 12
AVON—David and Bathsheba comes to town at regular prices. Starting date is tentative and length of run is indefinite.
MARCH 13
GRANADA (to March 19)—Drums in the Deep South (A-2) is a very unusual movie. Its main purpose seems to be the glorification of the Confederate Army and it comes as quite a shock at the end to find out they did not win the war. Still, it ought to pull every true son of the South Granadaward during its stay. Don’t believe any Yankees would want to go unless it’s to cheer at the end. Besides, you have to be wearing a confederate cap to buy a ticket. With James Craig and Barbara (I don’t know who I love) Payton. Slaughter Trail (A-l) is something that should have Roy Rogers but has Brian Donlevy instead.
i g CLASS OF'52	1
WELL-PAID JOBS FOR	I
ENGINEERS	I
AT LINK AVIATION!	!
Engineering majors—there’s a	?
fine career for you at LINK	!
AVIATION. Excellent wages,	j
libera] health and life insurance	•
coverage, bonus and vacation	I
plans. Moderately priced	i
on-the-job meals, attractive	-
homes and new apartments within	;
minutes of the LINK plant.	i
LINK AVIATION
BINGHAMTON. N. Y.
W CANT GET A GIRL
WITH A GULP
OR
How do you know when your beet foot’s forward?
fOnce there was a Senior who was Shy. (Look, this is a story. It permits certain liberties with the truth.)
He’d call up a Girl, stammer incoherently through the Preliminaries, gurgle helpless.'y through the Bicuspids, and hang up. Dateless. One day his room-mate took him in hand. “Herman, old buddy,” he said, . . . and unfolded a Plan.
Next day the Big Girl on Campus got a Telegram. A terse message. Simply: ‘’Will pick you up at eight P.M. Friday. Kcgards. Herman H. Glockenspiel.” She was Intrigued. Friday evening she was bibbed and tuckered and waiting when Herman sheep-ished up the' steps of her Sorority house.
"Are you Herman H. Glockenspiel?” she cooed. “Ulp,” said Herman. “Oooooh,” she said, taking his arm. “I just love Original. Masterful Men.” Herman was on his way.	’
Now Herman has more dates than the Syrian Desert. Still makes ’em all by Tele, gram. No fool, this Herman.
When you’ve got a Date in mind — Whether it’s with the Campus Queen, a Smith Siren or a Big Moment Back Home - a Telegram has the Man-of-the-world Approach that pleases. Equally effective, too, for birthdays, Mother’s Day and Easter Messages, congratulations, or yaps to Pop for Cash, or to Sis to Airmail you The Baggf 'weater. Just call Western Union and see
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 March 7, 1952 No. 19
His First Season
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor
JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY.................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
In his first season here as basketball coach. Johnny Jordan suffered enough hard luck to last him for quite a while. It’s never quite proper, we suppose, to apologize with the old standby about bad luck, but the record shows that Jordan had more than his share.
With the important Eastern trip — and some equally important games here — still to be played, three Irish players were declared ineligible. Then Joe Bertrand had to be sidelined because of an injury. Bertrand managed to playin the thriller finale, but this still left only three of the first seven who started the season.
Taking all this into consideration, Jordan’s 16-10 record doesn’t look as mild as it does at first glance. The future, in fact, looks bright for him.
But this season was far from something that demands a lot of excuses. The ©
N.Y.U. game and the closing battle with DePaul were hair-raisers that nobody in these parts will forget for a long time to come. Players and coaches certainly gave everything they had in skill and endurance. The closing game, especially, was one that made Notre Dame proud.
The season is over now and Scholastic gives its history, starting on page 15 in this issue. In wrapping it up, we’d like to compliment the lads on the team for some fine games. And hats off to Johnny Jordan; we’ll bet his career here is a successful one.
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun. Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding. Bob Rust, Neil Scarlett, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta. SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch. Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: Following last year’s custom, Scholastic presents in this issue a capsule look at the basketball season. On the cover are stars Leroy Leslie and Joe Bertrand and head coach Johnny Jordan.
—Photo by Jerry Sheehan
How Many Is Enough?
A challenge was hurled at all of us last Sundav morning in Sacred Heart © * ©
Church. We hope all the troops will take it up. We are speaking, of course, of the novena to Our Lady of Sorrows. Its purpose: the conversion of Russia and world peace. For people of our age, world peace sounds like a pretty good thing.
Russia is considered a threat to Western civilization and the nations of the West are desperately trying to organize and arm themselves. More and more people look on this as preparing for the inevitable. Not enough people, however, seem to realize that it is not necessarily inevitable. Catholics above all should agree that things can be accomplished on this earth by other means than arms.
There is nothing wrong with arming ourselves. But why stop there? For those who will have to fight any war in the near future, the price in blood and sacrifice will be tremendous. Infinitely greater than a little time spent making a novena. The prophecies of Fatima don’t make a cataclysmic clash with Russia inevitable. Instead they give a promise of hope. If enough make this novena, Russia will be converted and war averted.
When you stop and consider the alternatives, it’s hard to understand why the whole world isn’t on its knees. And it’s hard to understand why our generation isn’t making this novena en masse.
We at Notre Dame, at least, have the opportunity. If we believe that prayer is a better weapon than steel, our chance to prove it has arrived. Only a very strange set of values could prevent Sacred Heart Church from being packed tonight. If enough make the novena . . . the prophecy says. And who knows how many is enough? A million more? Five million? The whole world? Or maybe one man? How many and who is enough? Maybe it’s you, lad.
March 7^ 1952
7
£
£

A

p
THE MORRIS INN
The University of Notre Dame's Own Hotel will open in April
92 Rooms
92 Baths
Rates from $6.00 Single — $9.00 Double
Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-Conditioned \ Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned
Room Service
Gift and Souvenir Shop
Cigar and Newsstand
Golf, locker and shower facilities for men guests
Putting Green
Radio and Circulating Ice Water in every room
Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining	/
V
The Morris Inn, a gift to the University from the late E. M. Morris '06 of South Bend, Indiana, will open in April.
Reservations from many friends of Notre Dame, the Alumni and parents of the Students are being received daily.
It is the hope of the University that the Morris Inn will help to introduce many new friends to the objectives and ideals of Notre Dame, as well as to serve the many old friends and supporters whom the University now enjoys and values so highly.
With this thought in mind we think it well to assure all of our readers that the facilities of The Morris Inn are completely at their disposal, not only for themselves, but for their friends and acquaintances as well.
Please feel free to call upon the management of The Inn for assistance in caring for your requirements, or those of persons you direct to us. It will be his pleasure to render prompt and efficient service at all times and nothing will be left undone in carrying out your wishes.
In the event your room requirements cannot be taken care of at The Inn because of pre-
vious booking the management will assist in securing reservations downtown hotels.
Please write, telegraph or telephone.
in one of South Bend's
f.
.'t

Edward H. The Morris
Hunt, Manager Inn
Notre Dame, Indiana
8
The Scholastic
i't
I N FCCS Picks N D as Congress Site
Council Hears Father Joyce on Milk Change: Disturbance Laid to ’Mistakes on Both Sides’
Ninth Annual Meet
Here Aug. 28-Sept. 3
The Student Council, at its regular meeting last Monday, heard from Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., acting vice-president of business affairs, who spoke concerning the Dining Hall’s change of milk glasses. Father Joyce explained the whole incident as a series of circumstances and mistakes on both sides, and emphasized that the University had planned no cut in the amount of milk to be served.
It is regrettable, he continued, if the incident has served to create a barrier
1	between the administration and the stu-
!•	dent body.
Father Joyce stated that even though milk prices have risen 30 per cent in the last year, the administration would prefer to absorb the increase until the ’ beginning of a new term, and thus ’ avoid a cut during the semester.
i a,
j w Ford ‘Anxious to Cooperate’
:	Father Joyce thought the solution to
the general problem might lie in closer communication between the students and the administration, and praised the Blue Circle’s special Dining Hall committee.	.
<	The Council then heard from Ed
j	Branigan of the Blue Circle, who heads
‘	the new committee for the Dining Hall,
;	and has been working with its director,
:	Mr. David Ford.
|	Branigan reported that the specific
f	functions of the three-man committee
।	will be to relay student complaints and
j	advice to the Dining Hall management,
[j	and from the management to the stu-
!dent body. After his report, Branigan told the Council that his committee had found Mr. Ford eager to cooperate p and to devote extra effort to accommo-| dating the students.
K	Council President Jim Garvin then
J
t March 7„ 1952
reminded the Council of the importance of keeping aware of student feeling on Dining Hall matters, and repeated Branigan’s statement that the Dining Hall management has guaranteed to publicize menu changes in the future.
Seek Interesting Discussions
Garvin later appointed a committee to approach Mr. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, with a suggestion on the subject matter of the speech classes, the debate team, and the new Speakers Bureau.
In compliance with this suggestion, the Department of Speech would swing the field of discussions from the usual abstract and general topics to more particular questions of student interest. If popular, these debates and discussions might eventually be held in the law auditorium every week, to stimulate student interest and participation in campus affairs.
In response to requests for a large student meeting, the Student Council also unanimously approved a motion to have a Student Council open-house meeting within the next several weeks.
Meetings of the Student Council are held in Room 100 Law Building every Monday at 7 p.m., and are open to all students.
VOLUNTEERS
Anyone wishing to serve on either the NFCCS Congress proper, or the Yearbook, should contact John O'Connell, 162 Dillon. Many responsible positions have yet to be filled, and much help is needed, even on a part-time basis.
Notre Dame has been officially selected as the 1952 site for the ninth annual NFCCS Congress. In a recent appearance before the Student Council, National Federation President Edward
Diedrich, from St. Benedict’s College in Atchison, Kans., confirmed the fact
JOHN O’CONNELL
To Serve as Chairman
that arrangements have been completed to hold the Congress here next Aug. 28 through Sept. 3. John O’Connell, Notre Dame junior and president of the Ft. Wayne Region, will serve as chairman.
It is expected that approximately 1,000 students, representing over 200 colleges from Maine to California, will be present at the Congress. Each college will send from two to five official delegates, but any other interested students will be welcomed. The guests will be welcomed. The guests will be housed (Continued on page 33)
9
Annual Marriage Institute Begins Tuesday With Talk by Father Hesburgh on Courtship
Courtship and engagement will be the subject of the first talk of the 1952 Marriage Institute this coming Tuesday. The Department of Religion is again sponsoring the series of informal discussions for all seniors and married students. These talks will be held twice weekly for the next four weeks in the Engineering Auditorium.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University will be the speaker at the first session on the “Courtship and Marriage.” Father Hesburgh taught a marriage course at the University for several years but was unable to continue after assuming the vice-presidency.
Rev Joseph Haley, C.S.C. taught the course a year after Father Hesburgh stopped teaching.
The following year, the Marriage Institute was begun. The Department of Religion replaced the marriage course with the institute because such a course was necessarily limited to a small number. The Marriage Institute is available to all.
All seniors should have received a bulletin announcing the institute by this time; bulletins for married students may be obtained at the religion office or from Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., director of the program. Vetville students may pick up a copy after Mass Sunday in Farley Hall.
Not Open to Underclassmen
Anyone who plans to be married before the next institute is held in 1953 is also eligible to attend. Due to limited seating facilities, the institute cannot be opened to the whole of the student body. All will have the opportunity to attend before they graduate.
With the exception of the first week, the discussions will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30 p.m. The second session alone will be held on Friday instead of Thursday evening.
The talks will follow the pattern of preceding years. The speakers will be seated at the front of the auditorium with microphones. Each talk will last about half an hour if there are two speakers and an hour if only one is scheduled.
A question period will follow each talk, with questions coming from the floor to be answered by the speakers. The approximate time for each evening’s program will be an hour and a half. There is a charge of 50 cents for the entire series, payable at the door.
The sessions of the Marriage Institute have been arranged so that the topics are progressive and inter-related. Father Lochner, the director, stresses the importance of attending all the sessions of the institute. If the student picks only the topics that sound most interesting, he will not see how all the talks are related to each other, nor will he get a full understanding and ap-
REV. THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C. ‘Courtship and Marriage’
preciation of the individual realities in married life.
The topics and speakers for the other sessions are as follows:
SECOND SESSION—March 14:	-
Prof. John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, on “Economic Matters Before and After Marriage;” and Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., of the Department of Religion, on “Marriage Legislation and the Ritual of the Church.”
THIRD SESSION—March 18:
Dr. John J. Kane, of the Department of Sociology, on “The Family as the Basis of Social Living;” and Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, on “Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace.”
FOURTH SESSION—March 20:
Dr. Herbert Ratner, M.D., professor at Loyola Medical School, Chicago, on “The Medical Aspects of Marriage.”
FIFTH SESSION—March 25:
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head
of the Department of Religion, on “Moral Problems in Marriage.”	'' £
1¥
SIXTH SESSION—March 27:	(
Rev. Robert J- Sheehan, C.S.C., head i of the Department of Biology, on “Masculine and Feminine Psychology;” and ; Mr. and Mrs. William R. Dooley, of the 5 Placement Bureau, and Mr. and Mrs. : Russell J. Barta of Vetville in a panel ’ discussion on “Practical Problems	of	;
Married Life.”	:
SEVENTH SESSION—April 1:	j
Rev. James P. Smyth, of the Depart-	;
ment of Religion, on “Husband, Wife, and the Child;” and Mrs. Dorothy j Riordan, parent and school teacher, on “Home Training and Sex Instruction.”
EIGHTH SESSION—April 3:
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, on “Christianizing Family Life:” and Mr. and Mrs. ' Patrick Crowley, Notre Dame alumnus and lawyer, on “How to make Families Happy.”
Only 3 Days Remain to File Applications for Draft Test
Monday night is the deadline for entering applications for the April 24 Selective Service College Qualification Test. Applications must be post-marked no later than midnight, Monday.
Any Selective Service registrant who is pursuing a full-time college course leading to a degree is eligible for the test.
This test will be the last until next year. All students whose academic yearends in June, and who haven’t as yet taken the test, are urged to do so. Many Selective Service boards will not grant occupational deferments solely on the basis of high academic standing. Thus, all students in that bracket should take the test as a precautionary measure.
However, the test itself will not determine deferment. Scores on the test will be used by the Selective Service ; local boards in considering the eligibility of registrants for occupational deferment as students.
National headquarters of the Selective Service System in Washington announced recently that statistics reveal that 61.3 per cent of the 19,571 students who took the test last December made a score of 70 or better. Of the approximately 340,000 who took the first four ■ tests, 63 per cent made a score of 70	•
or better.	’
Application blanks may be obtained from the nearest local board and, for students on campus, from the Office of Military Information in the east wing * | of the first floor Main Building.	g
£ 9
The Scholastic |
H g 1
10
0 'Pome' Stepped Up to Meet Spring Distribution Deadline
Progress on the Dome is being stepped up, since the 1952 annual will be issued around May 30. This will make the second year in succession that the Dome has been ready for the students before they leave for the summer vacation. Precedent was broken last year by having the yearbook distributed in May.
The sections that remain uncompleted are the Spring sports and class activities, such as the class dances, the student musical, and the plays. The sections of dedication, halls, Fall sports, and activities are already sent to the engravers.
* Ray Earls, this year’s editor of the Dome, will announce the Dome Award Committee next week. This committee is chosen each year by the editor of the Dome to select the four outstandingseniors or graduate students that have been conspicuous in academic affairs and by their services to Notre Dame.
The committee is a cross section of the students, with a member of the Blue Circle, a Student Council member, and a sports figure, helping the editor of the Dome, his associate editor, and the managing editor to pick the' Dome Awards. Based primarily on the services rendered, the committee will announce their choice late in the Spring.
Campus Moot Court Enters Semifinal Round Wednesday
The Moot Court of Notre Dame swings into its final rounds this year with the semi-finals scheduled for next Wednesday. Two courts will be in action that night starting at 7:30 p.m. in rooms 100 and 102 of the Law Building. The judges will consist of a faculty member and two attorneys from South Bend.
The winners will participate in the finals, to be held in June at the annual meeting of the Law Alumni Association. The two visitors there will receive the Dean’s Award and $50, while the losers will get $25.
Of the eight law students remaining after two previous arguments, David Thornton and Orlando Prosperi are pitted against Ralph Schultz and William Daner; while Richard Murphy and William Roche encounter John Burke and Robert Berry.
Arrangements are also under way for the freshman competition to be held sometime in March or April. The newcomers will thus obtain experience in _ oral argumentation and brief writing V to prepare them for next year’s Dean Award Competition.
Top ND Debaters BatHe in Brooklyn Today; Team Takes on Several PTA Exhibitions
Today and tomorrow, four ND debaters will vie for honors in the Brooklyn College Tourney in Brooklyn.
Chuck Doherty, Don Dowden, Bill Hank, and Al De Crane will represent
'Sophistication' Wins Prom Theme Contest
“Sophistication” has been chosen as the theme of the Junior Prom April 25. Dan Marsalek, of Badin received the prize for submitting the winning entry
MARSALEK (RJ RECEIVES BID He Picked the Winner
in the junior class “Name a Theme” contest.
Over 75 entries were received by Contest Chairman Dave McElvain. “Sophistication” was chosen because it will lend itself to full use of the imagination for decorating.
Marsalek, a pre-dentistry major in the College of Science, receives one free bid and a free corsage for the- prom. His idea was selected only after much indecision and debate by the contest committee.
Immediately after the winning theme was chosen, Floyd Blair announced that reservations for bids are being accepted until Monday night, March 10. Tickets will go on sale in the lobby of the dining hall at noon and evening meals starting Wednesday, March 12. The price of the bids is $7.50. Juniors who wish to make reservations may send a post card to either Blair, 170 Dillon, or Jim Hutchinson, 119 Dillon.
Notre Dame on the topic: “Resolved— that the federal government should adopt a permanent program of price and wage controls.”
De Crane and Doherty will take the affirmative, and Dowden and Hank will handle the negative.
Within the next week Notre Dame debaters will be engaged in an extensive program of exhibition debates before various PTA groups in the South Bend area. Besides these exhibitions there will also be a regular debate with Marquette University at Milwaukee.
On March 11 two exhibition debates will be given at the Perley PTA and at the Benjamin Harrison PTA. These debates will be on the national topic and will also consist of a cross questioning period in which the debaters will answer any questions of their opponents. -
Notre Dame men will argue both sides of the question. Dowden, Carl Gundersen, Dick Galehouse, and Gerry Miemin will participate in the Perley debate while Doherty, Hank, Jim Cantrill, and Don Yeckel will take part in the Benjamin Harrison exhibition.
On March 18 George Vosmik, Bill Fagan, Joe Daley, and Jim Libertore will give an exhibition debate which will differ slightly from the usual procedure. These men will present a debate in symposium form entitled “Money In Their Jeans,” at the Ardmore PTA. This topic, requested by the PTA association, deals with the advisability of giving grade school children spending money.
Do Well at B.C.
Also on the same date, an exhibition debate will be presented by DeCrane, Doherty, Dowden, and Hank at St. Mary’s College.	.
Two debaters, yet to be announced, will travel to Fond Du Lac, Wis., to debate Marquette University in a judged debate before the Twilight Club of that city.
An indication of the general quality of the Notre Dame debaters can be seen from the recently released scores of the Boston College Tourney. These scores, based on individual speaking ability, ranked Notre Dame’s Al DeCrane and Chuck Doherty as the highest team in the preliminary rounds of debate.
Notre Dame was one of two schools given the top award of superior. De Crane was ranked as the best speaker, his closest rival being 10 points behind.
Besides these exhibition debates, the Notre Dame team will also participate in a number of future major tourneys.
March 7^ 1952
11
MANN, KOFF, HILLYER, AND WINOGRAD
Coats and Ties Must Be Worn
Juilliard String Quartet Returns to ND Monday
Under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture series, the Juilliard String Quartet from the Juilliard School of Music, New York City, will give a concert in Washington Hall Monday at 8 p.m.
The . Juilliard String Quartet—which consists of Robert Mann and Robert Koff, Violin; Raphael Hillyer, viola; and Arthur Winograd, cello—records exclusively for Columbia Records, Inc.
Coats and ties must be worn to the concert.
The program will be as follows:
Quartet in E minor .............Verdi
Allegro
Andantino •
Prestissimo
Scherzo—Fuga. Allegro assai Mosso.
Streichquartett, Opus 3........  Berg
Langsam—Etwas Rascheres Tempo Massige viertel—Bewegter
Intermission
Quartet in C major, Opus 59, No. 3.
.......................  Beethoven
Andante con moto—Allegro vivace
Andante con moto quasi Allegretto Menuetto: Grazioso
Allegro molto
ND 2500-Pint Pledge Swamps Red Cross
With over 2500 pints of blood pledged by ND students in the recent campus blood drive, Notre Dame has an excellent chance to lead all the nation’s colleges—if the pledged blood can be collected by the Red Cross.
Even if a thousand of the volunteers should be unable to contribute, Notre Dame may still move into first place. At last report, the University of Idaho led with one-third of its students contributing.
The difficulty here lies in the reported inability of the local Red Cross to provide facilities to take the blood. . A bloodmobile has been promised to the University for April 3-4. Since only 300 pints can be drawn in a two-day period, additional facilities must be provided before Notre Dame can complete its donation.
Two of the six students who managed the campus drive conferred for several hours Tuesday with the South Bend Chapter chairman and the regional field representative of the Red Cross. The organization, however, claimed that it could not extend the bloodmobile’s visit here at the present time. The officials stated that the Red Cross prefers to accept the blood over a long period of time.
Mass Schedule
Monday, March 10—Feast of Forty Holy Crowned Martyrs
Tuesday, March 11—Tuesday of the Second Week of Lent
Wednesday, March 12—Feast of St. Gregory I
Thursday, March 13—Thursday of the Second Week of Lent
Friday, March 14—Friday of the Second Week of Lent
Saturday, March 15—Saturday of the Second Week of Lent ---------------------------o----
Mass on Sunday, March 9, will include instruction on “The Kyrie and Gloria." Speakers will be: at the 7 o'clock Mass, Father Lochner; at 8, Father Harris; at 9, Father Joyce; at 10, Father McCarragher.
Seek Help Higher Up
The Notre Dame men have therefore	>
contacted Red Cross national head-	«
quarters in Washington for additional	;
facilities.	|
Although it lacks proper- facilities, -v I the' Red Cross has the task of filling a ® Defense Department request for 300,000	:
pints of blood monthly.	§
The Chicago Chapter, which has a	3
blood unit of its own, was able to fulfill	|
only seven per cent of its 150,000-pint	|
monthly quota in January. The Notre Dame committee hopes to obtain use of i; Chicago’s relatively idle bloodmobile to : relieve the pressure here.
To collect a six-month quota of 1050 pints in St. Joseph County, in which Notre Dame lies, the Fort Wayne area bloodmobile will be' allotted to the county for eight days, four of them devoted to South Bend.
Thus the bulk of Notre Dame’s contribution cannot be accepted, despite the' urgent need for blood, unless the t unit spends eight days on campus, an impossibility according to South Bend officials. The 2500 ND pledges, then, are meaningless unless further means * . of accepting the blood are provided.
The Scholastic 8
12
o University Theater Scores Hit on Puzzler After Audience Disentangles Unusual Story
By DICK CODY
When the greater portion of a University’s Speech Department interrupts a theatre presentation to apologize for its mishandling, it does not ordinarily indicate a successful production. When ushers are pressed into service as actors, and actors take time out to complain about their roles, happiness and light are often absent from the wings. When scenery collapses and spectators are led sobbing from their seats, things are in a bad way. At least when judged by ordinary standards of the theatre.
Fortunately, however, ordinary standards cannot apply to Thornton Wilder’s A “The Skin of Our Teeth” as presented by the University Theatre last Sunday through Wednesday nights in Washington Hall. For each seeming ad-lib, each catastrophe, each mishap was methodically and purely intentional. And each heightened the final impact of the play’s meaning.
It took no more than several minutes of the first act to demonstrate that the Antrobus home in Excelsior, N. J., could by no means be called an ordinary household. To begin with, the chief topic of conversation between Mrs. Antrobus and Sabina, the maid, was an ice movement threatening the whole Eastern Seaboard. That and Mr. Antrobus, who was busy inventing the wheel, working out the multiplication tables, and discovering the alphabet. Also in the family are Gladys, the daughter, and Henry, the son whose dark past is only hinted at, and who has a liking for w slingshots. The whole act, in addition, is filled with a stream of extraordinary characters seeking to avoid the cold— a tame dinosaur and mammoth, Homer, Judge Moses, and three Muses. It is also at this time that Mr. and Mrs. Antrobus celebrate their 5,000th wedding anniversary.
On the Boardwalk
The second act takes place on the Boardwalk of Atlantic City, where Mr. Antrobus has been named president' of the Order of Mammals. With a background of celebration by bathers and ether Boardwalk characters, Mr. Antrobus is tempted to divorce his wife for Miss Atlantic City of 1952, and a strange fortune teller ominously warns of things to come. That the fortune teller wasn’t talking through her bandanna grows evident with the coming of the deluge, before which the Antro-buses escape in a boat with two of
every animal in the world. Also at this time their son Henry turns out to be Cain, who killed a brother with his slingshot.
The curtain for the third act brings out the surprising fact that seven of the actors have come down with severe cases of something-or-other during the intermission. Their places are taken by ushers and stage hands, whereupon the' act begins again and Sabina an7 nounces to the audience that “You’ve seen all this before.” The scene once again is the Antrobus home, this time after a war fought between Mr. Antrobus and Henry. Mrs. Antrobus and Gladys come up from the cellar where they have lived through the' war years. Sabina comes home, in uniform, Mr. Antrobus comes home, and Henry comes home, sullen and embittered.
Then It Became Clear
By play’s end it became clear that Mr. Wilder temporarily clouded what he wanted to convey behind a screen of farce. In the opening minute, for example, Sabina repeated one line three times before Mrs. Antrobus came in from off stage. When she touched a portion of the wall with her feather
‘THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH’
Each Mistake Was Purely Intentional
duster it fell out. And then she broke off a monologue to bewail the poor role she was acting. By this time the expression on the collective face of the audience was that of one who reaches into a pocket for carfare and brings his hand out with a lobster sticking to his fingers; these things just aren’t supposed to happen. Much of the first and second act was in the same vein, culminating in the grand melee at the beginning of the third act. But by this time you began to see what the author had done. By inserting some farce into the play he made you take the whole thing as farce—for a while. You didn’t realize at first that the dinosaur was actually meant to be a dinosaur, that the ice movement was really The Ice' Age, that the Antrobuses weren’t just one family at all, but mankind. And that their story was the story of man through the ages, from his earliest days to the present, with all his inventions, imperfections, conflicts, and advancements.
It is to the credit of the University Theatre that such a complicated play as The Skin of Our Teeth was attempted; it is also to their credit that the play was brought off so well. Cast in a role which might have been overplayed because of its fluctuations between comedy and seriousness, Doug Robertson was excellent as Mr. Antrobus. Also outstanding in other principal roles were Jean Richard as Sabina and Alice Weiss as Mrs. Antrobus.
March 7. 1952
13
Fr. Kusman Delivers Second Aquinas Talk
With "Integrity and Public Honesty" as the title of his subject, Rev. Stanley J. Kusman, S. M., will lecture this Sunday at S: 15 p. m. at the South Bend Progress Club under the sponsorship of the Aquinas Library. His talk is the second in the current Aquinas Lenten Series of weekly lectures.
Father Kusman is professor of philosophy at St. Mary’s University, San Antonio, Texas. He was educated in Switzerland and at the Catholic University of America, Washington, I). C.
REV. S. J. KUSMAN, S.M. ‘Integrity and Public Honesty’
Fr. Kusman was an Army chaplain for six years, four of which were served in Europe.
Fr. Kusman directs many retreats for laymen, nuns, and priests, and is being brought to South Bend on the recommendation of the Most. Rev John Francis Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, who was greatly impressed by Father Kusman’s talk on public honesty during a priests’ retreat at Notre Dame.
Monsignor Martin B. Hell riegel, a founder of the Liturgical Movement in this country, will give the third lecture on March 16, entitled “The High Mass.”
On March 23, Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley will speak on “The Role of the Family in the Church.”
Rev. Matthew Miller, O.F.M., of Brookline, Mass., will deliver the final lecture March 30 on “The Passion of Christ.” Father Miller is director of
the Franciscan Apostolate of the Way of the Cross.
Tickets may be purchased at the Aquinas Library or at the Progress Club box office.
Station Plans Full Coverage Of Bengal Bout Finals, Semis
WND will broadcast the complete program of the final two nights of the Bengal Bouts and will cover the preliminary nights for a half hour each evening, according to plans released this week by station sports director Bob Dougherty.
“The student voice intends to make a real production out of the Bengal coverage," Dougherty said. “At present we’re planning to have a man in the fighters’ dressing room as well as the usual ringside blow-by-blow coverage.”
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday —the preliminary nights for the Ben-gals, will receive a half an hour each of WND coverage—at 9 p. m. during what would normally be the first half hour of the request show.
Eight o’clock will be air time for the semi-finals Saturday and the finals on St. Patrick’s Day, as the student station will air every one of the bouts on those two nights.
WND covered the entire program of the novice tournament which took place last week. Fifteen minute highlights of the better bouts were aired on the semi-final evenings, while all seven bouts in Saturday night’s finals were broadcast, just preliminary to the pick-up of the DePaul-Notre Dame basketball game from Chicago Stadium.
Ward Councilmen Organize Vetville St. Patrick's Shindig
Councilmen of Wards 1, 2, and 3 in Vetville will be in charge of the St. Patrick’s Day party March 17. The party will get underway at 8:30 p.m. in the Vet Rec Hall.
The councilmen are Bill Hawley, Leo Petelle, and Ted Sobieralski.
This is the initial attempt to eliminate the practice of all the wards working simultaneously on the same activities. It is hoped that the move to split up the responsibility and work involved in organizing and presenting projects will work successfully.
Mayor Lassuy was quite satisfied with the response to the Vetville bake sale booth at the Mardi Gras. He said that major credit should be given to the wives, who supplied all the pastry. Congratulations were also extended to the chairman, Russ Barta, and all the persons who aided him in this year’s project.
Student Senate Plan • Now in Final Stages
Plans for a new form of student government are nearing- completion, with a Student-Council-appointed reorganization committee, headed by Jim Garvin, drawing up a constitution designed to insure bettei- student representation in the governing body.
Bill Dempsey, Tom Field, and Buck , Hennigan are drawing up the preamble. They hope to integrate all of the ends of student government in general with the particular ends of the ND student government.
Sophomores Vern Essi and Carl Eck are concerning themselves with the intricacies of the election procedure under the new charter. They are devising ways and means for the class officers, hall and college senators, one graduate 4} senator, and one off-campus man to be elected.
Freshman President Larry Mullins and Vice-President Bill Byrne are on the nomination committee for the constitution, which calls for more nominations than ever before.
Tom Neurie, Don Carbone, and Ron Mealey will offer proposals as to how the campus council of the NFCCS can best be incorporated into the new student government set up.
Tom Brown heads a three-man committee to discover the best way to incorporate the Blue Circle into the student government.
Tom Reedy, the present secretary of the Student Council, is responsible for the judicial phase of the constitution.
A mass meeting of campus club presidents is planned soon to get the opin- . ions of these men concerning the forma- W tion of a specialized club council, which is called for in the general scheme of the new constitution. Every campus club will be evaluated and classified into a particular functional category. This is in line with the theme of the new system of getting everybody to participate in the student government.
The constitution will call for the general election of the Student Senate President. This will make him directly responsible to the student body who elected him. He will hold office for just one semester, and then another man will be voted into office.
The new charter stipulates that the Student Council will now be called the Student Senate. The other Student Senate officers aside from the president will be elected by and from the Senate.
The revision committee hopes to have the constitution proper out of the way -by the end of this week so that they can begin work on the by-laws.
14
The Scholastic
Coaches and
Players
JOHN JORDAN, Head Coach . . . Compiled admirable 16 and 10 record in first year as top tutor of the Irish hoopsters . . . product of Chicago’s South Side and alumnus of Quigley Prep in the Windy City . . . entered Notre Dame in 1931, earning three varsity monograms in basketball for three successive seasons . . . succeeded Edward “Moose” Krause as captain of the ND eagers for the 1934-35 season . . . after graduation Jordan was signed as head coach at Chicago’s Mt. Carmel High School, where he copped three league and two city championships . . . left Mt. Carmel in 1949 for a one-year performance as head coach of Loyola in Chicago for the 1950-51 term . . . released from contract at the end of last season to act as head coach for this year’s Irish, succeeding Edward “Moose” Krause . . . Jordan was married in 1936 in the log chapel at Notre Dame, and served a three-year stint during the war as a Lieutenant in the Navy.
JOHN DEE, Assistant Coach . . . Former Notre Dame eager, also in his initial year with the Irish as Jordan's right hand man . . . born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and graduate of Loyola Academy in Chicago . . . entered Notre Dame in 1944 and played football for one year . . . member of the Irish cage squad during the seasons of 1944-45 and 45-46 . . . finished studies at Loyola of Chicago, graduating from there in 1947 . . . assistant grid coach of Chicago’s Mt. Carmel High School during the fall of 1947 . . . became head coach of football and basketball at St. Mel’s High School in the Windy City . . . left St. Mel’s in June, 1951, when named assistant to Jordan at Notre Dame . . . married five years and the father of one daughter.
16

JOSEPH BERTRAND . . . Chicago sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in Law ... St. Elizabeth High School in the Windy City his alma mater ... 20 years old, and winner of his initial monogram in performing as guard for the Irish . . . biggest sports thrill came in St. Elizabeth’s winning of the National Negro Midwest Basketball Tourney for two successive years, in both of which he was chosen most valuable player . . . Joe names Steiner of St. Louis and Ramsey of Kentucky as really tough foes . . . likes books and records.
years old . . . junior in College of Arts
LEROY LESLIE . .
JIM GIBBONS . . . guard and 21
and Letters, majoring in speech ... he attended Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago . . . played under Johnny Jordan . . . greatest thrill was playing in last year’s St. Louis game . . . considers Ray Ramsey of Kentucky his best opposing player . . . holds one ND monogram . . . favorite athlete is baseball player Ted Williams of Beantown . . . hobbies are going to shows and reading sports magazines.
Three-monogram winner . . . the 21-year-old Johns
town, Pa., senior starred at forward for the Irish eagers . . . attended Johnstown Catholic High School ... a major in business administration in the College of Commerce . . . win over N.Y.U. this year proved his most thrilling experience . . . Leroy looks to the Lakers' George Mikan as
his athletic hero’ . . . considers stamp collecting a hobby.
Watson of Kentucky stiffest opponent . . .

NORB LEWINSKI . . . wins second monogram

this year
. “Gootch”
calls Chicago his home town ... a product of Mount Carmel High School, he names Penn’s Ernie Beck as his best opposing player ... a 21-year-old junior in the College of Arts and Letters and majoring in political science . . . Norb looks to his brother Ed as his athletic hero . . . held down the center post for this year’s Irish . . . current movies and fishing take up his leisure time . . . the ND-Ky. game of two years ago his biggest thrill in sports.
March 7. 1952
17

JERRY McCLOSKEY . . . The team's pot-shot artist comes from Toledo, O., where he won nine monograms at Central Catholic ... a junior majoring in physical education . . . won his first ND monogram last year . . . cites
this year’s
near win over Kentucky in Chicago Stadium his greatest thrill
in sports . . . Frank Ramsey of Kentucky his choice as best opposing
player . .
. musical movies his hobby.
ED McGINN mettle . . . phia, Pa. . .
. . . Came off the bench late in the season to prove his played guard, forward and center . . . hails from Philadel-. a Commerce sophomore, says joining the Navy most thrill-
ing experience . . . any and all sports are his hobbies . . . names his former teammate at West Catholic High, Ernie Beck of Pennsylvania, the best player he has ever faced.
JOHN S. REYNOLDS . . . hails from Maplewood, N. J. . . . playing forward, he is at ND on a baseball-basketball scholarship . . . biggest thrill when he scored 42 points in the first game of his senior year at Columbia High School . . . Ron Ferisal of the DePaul Lakers a top opponent . . . hero is Bum Preacher Roe . . . John is a sophomore Commerce student majoring in business administration . . . holds three basketball and three baseball letters from high school . . . also holds his high school’s record in single game and for entire season for most field goals and foul shots.
DICK ROSENTHAL . .
One
earned regular positions . .
of this year's corps of sophomores who comes from St. Louis where he went to
McBride High school . . . played both center and forward and was one of the leading scorers this year . . . majoring in accounting in the College of Commerce . . . playing against Kentucky was his greatest sports thrill . . . Ernie .Beck rates his vote as the best player he ever faced ... as a hobby he enjoys reading Homer’s “Odyssey.”
5ft


18

The Scholastic

ENTEE SHINE . . . Well known around South Bend through high school playing at South Bend Central ... a Commerce sophomore majoring in business administration . . . won a monogram last year . . . known for his sparkling ballhandling and rebound work . . . alternated at guard and forward . . . likes to collect classical records . . . calls scoring 13 points against Wisconsin last year his greatest athletic thrill . . . names faced.
le Beck the best player he
DON STRASSER . . . played big season this year after being out with a broken ankle most of last season ... is a first semester senior in 'College of Arts and Letters . . . political science major . . . says Schmidt of St. Louis and McKenna of Canisius top opponents . . . the 22-year-old guard admires Cousy of the Boston “Celtics” . . . Windy City boy from Leo High School . . . holds four monograms in basketball while at Leo, and one 'gram here . . . being chosen as most valuable player in South Side Catholic League was biggest thrill . . . likes reading novels . . . considers “The Cardinal" tops . . . Chicago club member.
JACK STEPHENS . . . 19-year-old freshman in College of Commerce . . . he played both guard and forward positions . . . recalls scoring 8 of 15 free pitches in Marquette-ND contest as greatest thrill . . . considers Beck of Pennsylvania best opponent . . . his athletic hero is Terry Brennan,
former ND that town
monogram pounds.
football player . . . member of Chicago Club, since he calls home . . . attended Mt. Carmel High School . . . won one there . . . tops six-foot mark by two inches, and weighs 190
BILL SULLIVAN . . . Commerce sophomore
from Chicago . . . was part of
team’s reserve backbone . . . brings his six feet four inches to ND from St. Ignatius High School in the Windy City, where he experienced his biggest sports thrill by winning the Catholic League scoring honors during his senior year there . . . is 19 . . . music lover Bill is majoring in business administration ... is treasurer for the Chicago Club ... an active member of the Air Cadet Club.
March 7. 1952
19


Season in Review
by Tom Foote
Beginning with an impressive victory string, then falling into hot and cold ways, and finally finishing the season in inspiring fashion, this year’s Notre Dame basketball team amassed a total
of 16 victories pite the loss course of the theless made
against 10 defeats. Des-of seven eagers in the season, the Irish never-Coach Johnny Jordan’s
debut a successful one by bettering last season’s mark of 13-11 and upsetting some of the nation’s best cage outfits. Individual honors of course must go to Captain Leroy Leslie the only senior on the team, who closed out his collegiate career in brilliant style against DePaul last Saturday by scoring 32 points to break the single game scoring record in addition to surpassing the three-year and one-year scoring marks as well.
It was on December 1 at St. Paul that the Irish first swung into action by polishing off St. Thomas College 7137 with the starting five of Joe Bertrand, Dick Rosenthal, Leslie, Don Strasser, and Entee Shine all contributing to a well-balanced team victory. Three nights later- the Irish pulled the curtain in the local fieldhouse and walked over Wabash by a 75-46 count. Sophomore Joe Bertrand racked up 23 points to lead the Irish to their win.
At Madison, Wisconsin, on December 8, Notre Dame suddenly vaulted into national prominence by breaking away from a 33-33 halftime tie to go on and blast a good Wisconsin team 63-53. Strasser and Rosenthal with 13 and Shine with 12 points led the team in their first important win. Then, returning to the home hardwood on December 11, the Irish took the measure of Northwestern 65-54 after leading most of the way. Bertrand rang up 22 points to spark the attack.
ATTEMPTS A BASKET
DICK ROSENTHAL (19)
Kentucky—the biggest of the year
In a clash between two previously undefeated teams, Notre Dame emerged the victor by toppling Loyola 77-57 here on December 17. A second-half surge accounted for the Irish triumph after the Chicagoans had led 32-31 at the half. McCloskey and Rosenthal scored 18 points each and the youthful Irish held high-scoring Nick Kladis to two field goals as Jordan directed the downfall of his former charges. Another important contest was played in the
fieldhouse on December 22 when a good Pennsylvania team came here to absorb an 83-78 loss as the Irish made it six in a row. Ernie Beck led the Quakei> with 27 points while Bertrand, Shine and Leslie scored 18, 17, and 16 respectively for the Irish.
Indiana finally stopped the Irish victory skein with a 67-54 victory in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis December 28. The score was tied 30-30 at half-time, but after four ND’ers fouled out. the Hoosiers ran away with the game in the final period. Freshman Don Schlundt led the Hoosiers with 16 points, and Leslie hit 17 for the Irish. On the following night the Jordanmen bounced back with a 64-50 conquest of Purdue as Leslie scored 16 points to pile up a three-year total of 100 points for the Classic and break the former record of 96 held by Bill Garrett of Indiana and Ralph (Buckshot) O’Brien of Butler.
Spartans Drop Irish
But upon returning to post-holiday
action.
the Irish ran into Michigan
State’s possession style of play and
■■
# •
KENTUCKY GAME
Students cheering
ACTION them on
dropped a loosely-played
66-52 decision
to the Spartans. The loss was all the more bitter since it occurred on the fieldhouse floor and broke a 20-game home winning streak. Disaster again befell the Irish three days later as the}' lost a 65-59 encounter to a powerful University of Louisville team at Louisville. The win was the 9th in 11 starts for the Kentuckians.
Still sluggish from these two defeats, the Irish next met the Butler Bulldogs on the home floor and had a difficult time to pull a 56-49 decision out of the fire. Substitute Norb Lewinski came in at the pivot and fired in three straight hook shots in the closing minutes to finally put the game on ice. Then against Marquette on January 12 at Milwaukee Notre Dame hit one of their season’s peaks by blasting the Hilltop


pers 74-56 as Rosenthal hit 23 points. Continuing in this fashion, the Jordanmen got revenge for their- earlier loss to Michigan State by overwhelming the Spartans 56-48 at East Lansing on January 15. Freshman Jack Stephens came into his own with 18 points to top the evening’s scorers.
After an 11-day layoff while semester exams were in progress, the Irish won their fourth straight by crushing Can-isius 72-59 at Buffalo with Bertrand scoring 26 points and Rosenthal 20. However, at Pittsburgh two nights later, the Irish dropped a 62-55 encounter to the Panthers. Notre Dame led 33-18 at intermission, but lost five men via the foul route and the Panthers surged ahead for the first time in the fourth period and won going away.
Then came the big game of the year against Kentucky in Chicago on February 2. With over a thousand of their fellow students cheering them on, the Irish played inspired ball and led at halftime, 39-33. But the Wildcats, led by Ramsey, Hagan, and Linville, had too much class and pulled away late in the game to outscore the Irish 71-66.
Two nights later in suburban Evanston, Notre Dame defeated Northwestern for the second time in a 75-69 thriller. The Wildcats led by two points with two minutes left in the game, but five consecutive points by Lewinski wrapped up the victory for the Irish.
However, on February 7, the season’s fortunes hit their lowest mark as Marquette stunned the Irish with a 57-50 upset win in the fieldhouse. After holding a 31-27 lead at the half, the Irish couldn’t do anything right in a nightmarish second half.
The St. Louis Billikens crushed the Jordanmen 80-58 on February 9 at St. Louis as Ray Steiner scored 31 points for the Bills. The only consolation for
the Irish was Leroy Leslie who scored 21 points to surpass the three-year scoring mark of 855 formerly held by Kevin O’Shea. The Irish finally bounced back on the victory trail by coming from behind to nip Butler 5248 at Indianapolis on February 12.
With a wildly cheering student body urging them on, the Irish won a great 76-70 victory over DePaul in the fieldhouse on February 14. The game was a nip-and-tuck affair all the way with the Demons leading 38-35 at halftime. But after Lewinski fouled out late in the game after having scored 19 points, Joe Bertrand took over the pivot chores and fired in three straight buckets to clinch the game.
On February 18 the Pitt Panthers became the only team to down the Irish twice this year as they won a thrilling 62-60 victory on the local court. Captain John Kendrick’s 15-foot shot swished through the nets as the final gun went off to give the Panthers a great triumph. Leslie, playing his last home game, was given a great ovation and came through with 16 points.
Navy Wins
Without Joe Bertrand who had suffered a chipped vertebra, the Irish went east and suffered a 67-58 setback at the hands of Navy at Annapolis on February 23.
Two nights later, the Irish won one of their greatest victories of the season by upsetting highly-favored New York University in Madison Square Garden 75-74 in overtime. At the end of regulation time the score was knotted at 66-66, and with the Violets leading by one point and a half minute left in the overtime period, Johnny Lattner replaced Leroy Leslie who had fouled out. With scant seconds remaining, the football star became a basketball hero by splitting the nets with the win-
ROSENTHAL (19) ATTEMPTS HOOK
Against the best in the country
ning field goal.
However, the Irish came out on the short end of another one-point decision the following night as Penn’s Quakers won a 67-66 victory to get revenge for their earlier loss to the Jordanmen. The Quakers scored the winning basket with 1:30 left to play and stalled out the rest of the game after the Irish lost possession of the ball.
Last Saturday the Irish closed out the season in great style by squeezing out a 78-77 victory over DePaul in Chicago. The game was closely fought all the way with the score being tied 37-37 at the half. Then Leroy Leslie, playing his final game for Notre Dame and handicapped with four personal fouls, came through with 23 points in the second half for an evening’s total of 32—breaking three records in the process, leading his team to a fitting season’s climax, and closing out his own career in a blaze of glory.
GIBBONS (7) SCORES FOR IRISH	JOE BERTRAND (8) EYES BASKET
The worst showing of the season	The curtain raiser in the fieldhouse
The official photograph of the 1951-52 basketball team. Top row, I. to r.—Johnny Dee, assistant coach; Jack Neu-mayr; Dick Honingford; Dick Rosenthal; Norb Lewinski; Joe Katchik; Dick Wise; Bob Wray; Ed McGinn; Entee Shine; Johnny Jordan, coach. Bottom row—Bill Sullivan; Jerry McCloskey; Jim Gibbons; Joe Bertrand; Don Strasser; Leroy
Leslie; John Stephens; Walt Cashman; Tom Sullivan.
		Individual Hoop Statistics										Scores
		Games	FGA	FG	Pct.	RA	R	Pct.	PF	Points	Notre	Dame, 71; St. Thomas, 37
					.358			.694	100	367	Notre	Dame, 75; Wabash, 46
	Leslie 			 26	405	145		111	77				Notre	Dame, 63; Wisconsin, 53
	Rosenthal	.... 26	425	133	.313	109	63	.578	104	329	Notre	Dame, 65; Northwestern, 54
	Bertrand .		 23	277	166	.418	111	61	.549	83	293	Notre	Dame, 77; Loyola, 57
											Notre	Dame, 83; Pennsylvania, 78.
	Lewinski		 26	214	87	.407	71	39	.549	59	213	Notre	Dame, 54; Indiana, 67*
	McCloskey	.. 19	187	66	.353	12	7	.583	40	139	Notre	Dame, 64; Purdue, 54
	Strasser		 15	118	36	.305	25	14	.560	46	86	Notre Notre	Dame, 52; Michigan State, 66* Dame, 59; Louisville, 65*
	Shine 			 15	108	30	.278	47	22	.467	47	82	Notre	Dame, 55; Butler, 49
	Stephens _		 12	75	25	.333	30	13	.433	16	63	Notre	Dame, 74; Marquette, 56
									60		Notre	Dame, 56; Michigan State, 48
	Gibbons	.... 22	65	18	.277	35	23	.657		59	Notre	Dame, 72; Canisius, 59
	Neumayr .	.... 13	26	8	.308	4	3	.750	16	19	Notre	Dame, 55; Pittsburgh, 62*
	Sullivan	.... 11	22	7	.318	6	1	.167	15	15	Notre Notre	Dame, 66; Kentucky, 71 * Dame, 75; Northwestern, 69
	Lattner ...	4	10	6	.600	1	0	.000	5	12	Notre	Dame, 50; Marquette, 57*
	Reynolds .	.... 7	15	3	.200	8	2	.250	10	8	Notre	Dame, 57; St. Louis, 80*
											Notre	Dame, 52; Butler, 48
	Wise 		.... 2	2	1	.500	0	0	.000	0	2	Notre	Dame, 76; DePaul, 70
	McGinn ...	.... 4	0	0	.000	2	1	.500	5	1	Notre	Dame, 60; Pittsburgh, 62*
	Wray 		.... 3	4	0	.000	2	1	.500	6	1	Notre Notre	Dame, 58; Navy, 67* Dame, 75; NYU, 74 (overtime)
	Sullivan ....	.... 2	1	0	.000	0	0	.000	1	0	Notre Notre	Dame, 66; Pennsylvania, 67* Dame, 78; DePaul, 77
												
	ND Totals	.... 26	1954	681	.348	574	327	.569	613	1689	* Games Lost	
•	Opponents	.. 26	1837	584	.317	648	425	.656	544	1593	Won	16 — Lost 10
March 7. 1952
23
The
Basketball
1951-52
Freshman
by Jack Sand
One of Best Defensive Players
Peter Eckel, Max Roesler. Dave Russell, Ron Auer.
and one of the few Indiana boys on the team. The Chicago area definitely dominated the frosh picture, just as it did the varsity, with four of the usual starters from that vicinity.
quite a rough time in splitting two games with Castellani’s hard charging hoopsters.
St


1951-52 freshman
basketball team. Back row, I. to r.—Cyril Daleiden, William Brett,
Front row, I. to r.—Coach John Castellani, Richard O’Donnell, John Nair, Steve Rebora,
All the spectators who arrived an hour or two before the Irish varsity basketball games, usually caught a glimpse of a fast moving bunch of freshman ballplayers, some of whom will most likely be seen by these same spectators as varsity performers in the years to come. This little publicized frosh squad, under the astute direction of Coach John Castellani, played the preliminary tilt to each home varsity contest with the exception of the final game, and in all compiled an impressive season’s record of five wins and one loss.
Hampered by the Big Ten ruling, which does not allow intercollegiate freshman sports, plus the fact that first year men were declared eligible for varsity competition, these young Irish basketeers went through their informal schedule without too much difficulty. Their only loss was sustained at the hands of the Notre Dame Jayvees, who composed mostly of varsity men, had
Impressive Over Howard
By far their most impressive victory of the campaign was a 79-47 drubbing of Howard Hall in the final outing of their short-lived schedule. Here, the fast break and good ball handling were utilized to perfection, as a potent substitute for the over all lack of height which plagued the squad. Center Eddie Fox, a 6'4" Chicagoan, dumped in a total of 25 points to lead the Frosh scoring parade. Fox, whose strong rebounding kept the Irish yearlings in the ball game throughout a very close first half, found the range with his deadly hook shots in the third and fourth periods to help break the contest wide open.
According to mentor Castellani, the squad possessed another fine center in Max Roesler, a Fort Wayne product, ‘

At one of the forward slots was 5'9" Ronnie Auer, considered by Castellani as the finest defensive ball player on the club. A Fenwick High product from Oak Park, Auer rebounded amazingly, and continued to out jump taller opponents despite his small stature. Holding down the other forward post was sharpshooting Pete Ekel, who averaged 24 points per game as a member of his high school team in Buffalo. Standing at .6’1", Ekel displayed uncanny accuracy with his one-handed push shot, and proved also to have an effective outside scoring spot.
Another forward who saw a numer-(Continued on Page 28)



24
The Scholastic
*52 Bengal Bouts Start Tuesday Night
Wilcox Stars as ND Trackmen Edge Indiana, 60-54; Mile Relay Triumph Decides Meet
Brown, Eck, Windishar Expected as Finalists
By FRAN PRICE
Notre Dame’s sophomore - studded track squad, paced by the heroics of senior Hughes Wilcox, copped its third meet in four starts this season by edging Indiana 60-54 last Saturday in the fieldhouse.
Jim Harrington remained undefeated in the pole vault as he climbed 13' 4" to break the old dual meet record. Another record setter was James Anderson of the Hoosiers who was clocked at 1:55.1 in the 880, nosing out John Mohar of the Irish.
Wilcox started off his great afternoon by tying for first in the high jump with teammate Tom Hassenger and rival Jim Harper at 5' 10". Roth of Indiana won the shot with a heave of 48' 3/4" and Roy Morriss of Notre Dame sprang 21' 7 3/4" to take the broad jump.
Freshman Jack Alexander edged Hagan of Indiana in the mile with a time of 4:17.8. Captain Bucky Ewing of the Irish remained undefeated in the 60-yard dash when he broke the tape in 06.3.
Wilcox returned to action in the 440 and teamed with Norm Feltes and Bob English to sweep this event. He was timed in :50.1.
But the Hoosier’s Taylor won the 60-yard high hurdles, and the Indiana two-milers, led by Zellers, swept that event. Then Marotin of Indiana nipped New-quist of Notre Dame in the low hurdles.
The aforementioned record breaking run by Anderson in the 880 followed, leaving Indiana just one point behind the Irish and setting the stage for the dramatic last event of the afternoon, the mile relay. Indiana’s first two runners built up an early lead over Bob English and Jack Wagner of the Irish, but Norm Feltes overtook his man and
brought an invaluable lead into anchorman Wilcox. Wilcox, completing his iron man stunt, had just enough left to edge his Hoosier rival at the wire and give Notre Dame the meet. The Irish batonmen were timed in 3:22.8.
Tomorrow Notre Dame will be host
to the Central Collegiate Conference meet. The preliminaries will be run off in the afternoon and the finals will take place tomorrow night.
DECISIVE MILE RELAY
Indiana Ahead, But Not for Long
All eyes will be focused on the veteran packed 157-pound class when leather starts flying Tuesday night, the official opening of the 1952 Bengal Bouts. The fights will continue Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Monday nights.
Last year’s finalists, Dick Windishar and Tom Chisholm will have to cope with much improved Rusty Vigil and last year’s 147-pound king, Bernie Baute.
Windishar hails from McMinnville, Oregon, and lives in Walsh hall. The Commerce senior is appearing in the Bengals for the fourth time. He grabbed the 157-pound title after a furious finale against Tom Chisholm last year. Windishar is favored to reach the finals again this year but there are three very capable fighters who say he won’t repeat the story of ’51.
Tom Chisholm calls Pampa, Texas, his home and lives in Walsh hall. He is an economics major in the college of Arts and Letters and receives his degree in June. Tom looks like the man to beat this year. Each year he has advanced one step in his quest for the title. This is his third year — the magic year. He went to the semifinals in the ’50 Bengals; waltzed to the finals in ’51, and; ’52 spells title for Chisholm.
Vigil a Threat
“Rusty” Vigil is fighting in his third Bengals this year. The Badin hall junior is a physical education major and comes to Notre Dame from Omaha, Nebraska. “Rusty” has been a continual threat and has improved each year. The winner will have a hard time moving Vigil out of the way.
Bernie Baute, another physical education major, comes from Bradenton
(Continued on _page 29)
March 7. 1952
25
Irish, Detroit Lead Kampus Kegler Play
By JACK SAND
It was a battle between the bowling giants last Sunday, as the front-running Irish Club squeezed out a three-point win over the second place Buffalo Club, in a series of matches which saw both team; roll way off their usual form. This was especailly true of the Buffalo outfit, who lost the total pinfall by a scant ten pins.
Meanwhile, the Irishmen, who are still leading the circuit by a single point, since Kansas City took three out of four from Toledo, saw Bob Klein’s meager 418 series cop team honors. Jim O’Brien, of Buffalo, was high for both teams with 463. This Sunday the Irish face another crucial test as they encounter the up-and-coming New Jersey Club.
Taking advantage of Buffalo’s downfall the Kansas City lads stayed right on the heels of the Irish with their three-point victory. Ron Wilder paced the Kansans as he pounded the maples to the tune of 530, with a 209 high game.
Bouncing back on the victory trail and pulling into a third-place tie with Buffalo, was the Civil Engineers, by virtue of their clean sweep over the Architects. Cy Brabenec once again led the Engineers with a 470 three-game set, followed closely by his teammate Tom Britt, with 461.
California in Second
Over in the Gold loop it was the California Club taking the spotlight away from the Detroit Club, even though the latter won three out of four to remain on top of the heap by a margin of six points. But the Californians were not to be denied, as they forged into second place by whipping the previously runner-up St. Louis Club in two matches. Bernie Paulsen sparked the West Coast lads with a 482 series, and 201 high, while teammate Jerry Dewan posted a 476 three-game set.
Rolling along in the same old fashion, the league leading Detroit squad bowled over the Syrian-Lebanese in two matches to gain three more points and a total of forty for the season thus far. Jerry Ledwidge continued to dominate the keglers with a 509 series, while Don Prebenda added a 489 string to help pace the leaders.
Falling from second into a fourthplace tie with the ASME was the Italian Club, who were handed quite a jolt by the now third-place AIEE. Pacing the Engineers, to four points
was Roger Dexheimer, with a nice 532 series and 198 high. A grand total of three points now separates the five contending clubs vying to replace Detroit as the kingpin of the league.
Seven Novice Boxers Crowned in Tourney
Fourteen finalists battled it out in the finals of the Novice Boxing Tournament last Saturday night before a large crowd of student enthusiasts in the boxing room of the fieldhouse. A trophy was awarded to the winner in each of the seven weight divisions, and although there were no K.O.’s or T.K.-O.’s, the. bouts were characterized by good blows and rough in-fighting.
Tom Magill, a freshman from Allentown, Pa., became the first champion of the evening by outpointing Bill Nesbitt for the 130 lb. title. Charles Paquette of Cranston, R. I., took an impressive decision over John Magill in the 135 lb. class. In the 145 lb. division Pat Donohue, sophomore from Philadelphia, Pa. and Morrissey Hall, copped the crown by out-slugging shifty Gus Freda.
As the bouts moved on into the heavier classes, they were characterized by more skill. Fred Piccini, an Off-Campus student from the Windy City started off slow but came into his own in the last two rounds to beat Bill Dunham for the 155 lb. trophy.
MAGILL, PAQUETTE, PICCINI, STANLEY, SARNA AND ASH (I. to r.) Finalists battled it out for the trophies
In the 165 lb. division, Bill Stanley, a sophomore from Garden City, N. Y., exhibited that height isn’t everything by downing Mike Dugan in one of the best fights of the evening.
In another slugfest Ed Sarna of Lyons Hall and South River, N. J., defeated Tom Short for the 175 lb. title.
John Sullivan was pounded at will but stayed on his feet by sheer courage as he lost the heavyweight crown to Larry Ash of Colorado Springs, Colorado and Cavanaugh Hall.
Irish Swordsmen Overcome University of Chicago, 20-7
The Notre Dame fencing team, probably thinking of the NCAA championships which are less than a month away, rolled over the University of Chicago last Saturday, 20 to 7, at Chicago.
Coach Walter Langford’s men of the sword now have a season record of seven wins and two losses.
Leading the Irish to their latest victory were Captain Jim Walsh and Chuck Daschle, winning three matches a piece. Notre Dame’s worries were over when they swept both the foil and sabre divisions by 8 to 1 scores.
The Irish have three more contests before embarking to Connecticut for the NCAA championships. Next week Notre Dame plays host to Detroit; the following two weeks they travel to Louisville and Cincinnati respectively.
26
The Scholastic
• Bad n Swimmers Cop Crown in Interhall
In a nip and tuck battle for team and individual honors, Badin Hall, paced by Jerry Flood, garnered the interhall swimming championship last week, nosing out Farley and St. Ed’s who finished in a deadlock for the runner-up spot only one point behind Badin’s 18 point winning total. Flood, a real competitor earned nine of those points himself.
No one hall or man dominated the events. Flood was the only swimmer to grab two first places and in one of I these, the 50-yard free style, he had to settle for a tie with Rockne Morrissey of the hall by the same name.
The first race of the evening was the 150 yard medley copped by St. Ed’s * team of John Garvey, Dan Healy and Jim Murphy. Their time was 2:04.52. Farley with Barrett Ehret and Guy Anderson finished second and Cavanaugh third. The 200 yard free style saw Bill Fagan of Cavanaugh speed to a victory in 2:32.2 over Tim Kett of Badin. Ed Rodgers, also of Cavanaugh, took third. The third event of the night was the aforementioned 50 yard freestyle, ending in a tie between Flood ,!	and Morrissey. Dick Deichmann of
|	Zahm finished second. The time was
i	:26.4. The 50 yard breast stroke was
j	an all freshman point scoring event.
■	Breen-Phillips’ Chester Schuler covered
the distance in :31, beating out Dan •.	Healy of St. Ed’s and Ehret, the Farley
(	workhorse.
In a closely contested three man diving event, Mickey McGuire collected a total of 231.8 points to edge St. Ed’s star Dan Healy, who totaled 225.1. John $ O’Brien of Dillon was third with 201.2.
Lawrence Kallfelz of Lyons won the 50 yard breast stroke from Garvey of St. Ed’s and Farley’s Gruse. Kallfelz covered the distance in ' :31.4. Flood gained his other number one spot in the 100 yard freestyle, splashing through the water in 1:03. Zahm’s Deichmann nailed down his second runnerup position of the night while Paul Romweber picked up a point for Farley with his third place finish.
The final event was the 200 yard relay won by Farley’s team of Anderson, Barrett, Ehret and Berryer ahead of second place Badin and third place ’ B-P. The freshman hall’s winning time was 1:53.8.
The official team standing was: Badin 18, Farley and St. Ed’s 17, Cavanaugh 10, B-P and Morrissey 9, Lyons 5, Zahm 4 and Dillon 1. The high individual standings: Flood, Badin and . Ehret, Farley 15, Healy, St. Ed’s—and Anderson and Barrett of Farley 14.
INTERHALL SWIMMING ACTION In a nip and tuck battle, Badin won
The points for the individual events are tallied five for first, three for second, one for third. The medley and relay, 8-6-4.	’
All in all, 39 medals of gold, silver and bronze were given to the participants finishing in the top three slots in each event. Gil Burdick, Physical Education swimming directoi' arranged the meet.
Keglers Down Valparaiso; Lose to Loyola Ramblers
After whipping Valparaiso’s keglers in three out of five matches, Notre Dame’s Intercollegiate bowling squad received the same medicine from the Ramblers of Loyola in last Saturday’s rolloffs in Chicago. The Irish now possess an over all record of two wins and one defeat in conference play.
Pacing the blue and gold keglers against Valpo was Jim Shapiro, whose sparkling five game series of 918 was tops for both teams. Shapiro’s scores were 166, 190, 204, 194, and 164. Following in order for the victorious Irish was Jerry Ledwidge with a neat 880 series, Paul Pfohl with 859, and Jim Shannon with 857. Jerry Sheehan contributed a three game set of 470, while Bob Doughterty racked off a high single game of 205.
Traveling to Loyola, the Irish found it surprisingly rough going as they dropped three games to the Ramblers. Usually reliable Shapiro had an off night with a five game series of 787. This time Pfohl led the ND keglers with a neat 883 set followed by Ledwidge who rolled 827.
Bengal Bou+ers Win Second Purdue Tilt
A collection of seven Notre Dame intramural boxers, members of the recently organized Bengal Bouters Club, punched out a 5-2 victory over Purdue last week. It was the second victory in as many matches for Coach Dominic Napolitano’s charges. The Irish defeated the same Purdue club 7-0 two weeks previous in the fieldhouse.
Purdue’s Ray Ritter and Julian Taylor were the point getters for their team. Ritter, at 127 pounds, gained a close decision ovei' Notre Dame’s Sal Fiorella while Taylor scored a third-round T.K.O. over highly-rated Bernie Baute in the 147-pound contest. In the previous encounter with the Notre Dame boxers Ritter was decisioned by Geary Becker and Taylor by Dick Windishar.
Eck Gains Second Win
In the only rematch of the evening, Notre Dame’s Carl Eck won his second victory over Andy Layas by a third-round T.K.O. In their first encounter which was Eek’s first fight Layas was decisioned.
Notre Dame’s second victory of the evening by the T.K.O. route came in the 175-pound class when Ed Sama stopped Fred Miller in the third round. Notre Dame decisions were gained by Jack Bush over Norm Plachecki in the heavyweight class; Ted Garland over Jim Warren in the 167-pound class, and Alex McAngus over Len Hodera in another 147-pound tilt.
March 7, 1952
27
Frosh Basketball
(Continued from page 24) ous amount of action, and also hailing from the Windy city, was Bill Britt. This towering 6'7" redhead, the tallest ‘ man on the squad, excelled as a rebounder, and for his size showed a great amount of speed on his drive-in shots under the basket. Britt was followed up by Cleveland’s Tony Muska, a 5'11" firebrand, who may be quoted as the hustle man of the team.
Pfister and Russell at Guard
Moving over to the guard slots we find jumping Joe Pfister, a 5'10" West Haven Connecticut lad, who prepped at Notre Dame High there before enrolling here at the University. Pfister’s specialty is a very good set shot which he used to great advantage in drawing the opposition’s defense out to stop him. Pfister’s running mate was usually Dave Russell, a swift little 5' 8" playmaker from Evanston. Russell, like many other ballplayers of his type, starred in the light weight junior league most prominent in Chicago’s high school circles.
Among the leading watch-charm guards on the squad was 5'9" Steve Rebora from Loyola Academy in Chicago. Rebora was perhaps the most versatile offensive ballplayer of the entire unit, and contributed much to its success. Playing along with Rebora was John Neher, a South Bend product from Washington-Clay High. Neher was the guard that consistently fed his well-known teammate Don Sehlundt, now Indiana University first string center.
Three other valuable performers who helped round out Castellani’s charges was 6'3" Cy Daleiden from Chicago, and two Ohio lads, Tom O’Donnell and Raj' Kennedy.
By Jack Varley
Last Saturday before the DePaul game Leroy Leslie needed 24 points to set a new single season mark. It was unlikely that he would get them for in his three years at Notre Dame he had never’ garnered that many. He was a good consistent ball player who usually got from 11 to 15 points and maintained a 13-plus average for his three years. But, he had never gotten 24. The closest he had come was 21 against St. Louis this year. However, he got hot. So hot in fact that in one game he established two new records and tied one. He established another new one by just being present at the first tip when he started his 73rd game to better by one Leo Barnhorst’s record. (Leslie started every game of his intercollegiate career, except last year’s Michigan State game which he missed because of an injury.)
Betters O’Shea, Bagley, Boryla
In his scoring spree last Saturday in which he garnered 32 points, Leslie broke the record for a single game held by Vince Boryla and
LEROY LESLIE
One of the best in history
Dan Bagley with 31 and bettered All-American Kevin O’Shea’s one-year total of 356 with 367 points. In swishing 13 field goals, Leslie tied Boryla and Bagley for buckets in a night.
Two-thirds of the way through the campaign, against St. Louis, Leslie broke O’Shea’s three-year scoring mark of 835 points, which had been set between 1947 and 1950. Leslie, who scored 290 points in his sophomore year and 316 last year, finished with a three-year record of 973 points to end his career as one of Notre Dame’s greatest basketball players. He is now
preparing to travel with the College All-Stars and play against the
CCC TRACK MEET
The Annual Central Collegiate Conference Indoor Track Meet will be held in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on Saturday, Mar. 8.
There will be afternoon and evening sessions. Preliminaries in all events will commence at 1:30 p.m. Finals will start at 7:30 p.m.
Students will be admitted free to both sessions upon presentation of Athletic - Identification cards. •
Use WEST ENTRANCE ONLY.
General Admission tickets for the public will be available at the box office priced at $1.00 for each session.
Harlem Globe-trotters.
Fans witnessing the 1952 version of the Bengal Bouts should really get their money’s worth. In fact, this year’s should be the best in history for never before has such an extensive program of preparation been expended. Never before have so many aspirants turned out. Congratulations are in order to Dominic Napolitano for his work, especially in connection with the Novice Tournament, and Bernie Baute for his work with the Bengal Bouters Club. The fighters that reach the finals will be quite experienced in their art and should give a real exhibition of boxing talent.
In Chicago last weekend, Notre Dame’s epee squad of the fencing team came within grasping distance of the Frank Righeimei’ Trophy and thus upsetting the Chicago Fencing Club, one of the top fencing outfits in the country and the best in the midwest. The Irish Jost, 13-10, but Jay Conlon came through with five wins against three losses while Brian Duff won five out of nine. Conlon and Duff fenced Don Strauss and Don Thompson, two of the top fencers in the country and still came out on top. The Righeimer award is given 'to the top epee team. Chicago has retained it for the past several years.
The Scholastic
Bengals
(Continued from page 25)
Beach, Florida. The Howard hall junior established himself as a boxer of repute in slashing his way to the 147-pound title last year. This is his third year as a Bengal Bouter and could very well be his big year. The addition of weight has given Baute strength that should prove to be an advantage in the title race.
The 127-pound class is not as wide open as the 157-pound class; but whether it will be Sal Fiorella or Geary Becker receiving the trophy on Monday night is anybody’s guess. Fiorella is from New York City and lives off campus. He is an economics major and is fighting in the Bengals for the fourth time. In the ’50 tournament he waded through tough opposition to cop the 127-pound crown. In 1951 he was outpointed by Geary Becker in a fight that could have gone either way.
Geary Becker lives in Dillon hall and is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters. This year marks the Park Ridge, Illinois, boxer’s third appearance in the Bengals. Becker is heavily favored to reach the finals.
The heavyweight class is open for grabs this year with Jack Bush getting the nod as favorite. Dick Cotter, now a Law student and last year’s champ, will not defend his title because his studies are demanding too much of his time. •
Jerry Hagman, who reached the semi-finals last year before meeting Cotter’s left hook, is the biggest threat to Jack Bush. Hagman is from Eau Claire, Wisconsin, and lives in Walsh hall. This is his second try at the title.
Bush and Bush
Jack Bush is attempting to make his initial Bengal appearance a champion one; and from all appearances he will be successful. Bush comes to Notre Dame from Oak Park, Illinois, and lives in Dillon hall.
Joe Bush, brother and roommate of Jack Bush, is making his first Bengal appearance. Hailing from Oak Park, Illinois, the sophomore Arts and Letters student might give his brother quite a bit of trouble.
Big Fred Poehler of Jackson, Michigan, and Breen-Phillips is also seeing his first action in the Bengals. The sophomore pre-med student has fought in the Golden Gloves and is no novice in the ring.
Charlie King, an Engineering senior from Alumni hall and Oyster Bay,
Long Island, New York, is stepping into the squared circle for the fourth time. Each year he has drawn a top notch opponent in the first round and has failed to win yet. King is in better shape this year than the past and should give the favorites a run for their money.
The 137-pound class follows the pattern of this year’s Bengals. There are two favorites, but which one will be the winner is the big question. Pat Drew, from New York City and Howard hall, is in the college of Commerce. This is Drew’s third year as a Bengal Bouter. Although he hasn’t been able to win the big one he has his best chance this year.
Pat Lally, from Green Bay, Wisconsin and Morrissey hall, is a sophomore in the college of Arts and Letters. Lally, like Drew, hasn’t been able to get the title. This is his second year in the tournament and the experience gained in last year’s Bouts has established him as the man to beat.
Puzzle in 167-Pound Class
The 167-pound class is the biggest puzzle. Bob Bickert, who lost to Joe Brown in the ’51 Bengal finals, is rated co-favorite with Dan Finn, one-time champ.
Bickert is from Lincoln, Nebraska, and a Physical Education major. The Badin hall junior is fighting in the tournament for the third time.
Dan Finn, the Arts and Letters senior from New York, lives off campus. Finn is a perennial Bengal favorite. He has been champ once and runner-up once. But the competition is a bit tougher than in the previous years.
Bill Seidler, of Council Bluffs, Iowa and Sorin hall, is fighting for the second time in the Bengals. “Seed” is a senior, majoring in economics. In last year’s tournament he lost a close decision to Bickert and should be much improved this year.
Al McGinnis from Wadsworth, Illinois, is fighting in the Bengals for the second time and is rated highly by his opponents. He is. a sophomore in the college of Commerce and lives in Morrissey hall.
Carl Eck looks like the top man in the 157-pound class. From Williamsport, Pa., and Lyons hall, this will be Eek’s first year in the Bouts. The sophomore Arts and Letters student has two impressive wins over Purdue to his credit and is probably the most improved boxer of the lot.
Eek’s biggest rival is Alex McAngus, a freshman from Honolulu. This is McAngus’ first year, but he has looked impressive in the sparring drills and
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
NOW! Colfax
Continuous showings. Prices this engagement only $.62 (plus tax) til 6	$.83 (plus tax) thereafter
March 7. 1952
29
in the match against Purdue. He is in the college of Arts and Letters and lives in Breen-Phillips hall.
The light-heavyweight crown is the only one that seems to fit most assuredly on one fighter’s head. There doesn’t seem to be anybody in this class that can touch Joe Brown. The toughest competition will come from Larry Ash and Ed Sarna.
Ash won the recent Novice tourna-
SORRY
IF WE MISSED YOU
BUT...
If you were unable to get together with our representatives, we'd like you to know about the excellent openings available to qualified engineers, mathematicians and physicists. Our brochure points out and pictures the history', development, progress, organization, expansion, facilities, programs, benefits, and opportunities open to you at Bell Aircraft, a leader in the Research and Development of Supersonic Aircraft, Rocket Power Plants, Guided Missiles, and Electronic and Servo-mechanisms equipment.
{Aeronautical Engineering Training NOT Required.)
MAY WE SEND YOU A COPY OF "ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES"
WRITE
Mgr. Engineering Personnel
P. O. Box 1	BUFFALO 5, N.Y.
ment heavyweight title. He is from Colorado Springs, Colorado and Cavanaugh hall. Ed Sarna copped the light-heavy crown in the Novice tournament. He calls South River, New Jersey, his home and lives in Lyons hall. Both Sarna and Ash are sophomores and are seeing their first Bengal fights from inside the ring.
Joe Brown of Sanders, Arizona, lives in Walsh hall and is a senior majoring in journalism. In the ’49 Bengals Joe lost in the finals to Vic Roblez, one of
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Mar. 8—FENCING—Detroit at Notre Dame
8—TRACK—CCC at Notre Dame
11—BOXING—Bengal Bouts, Fieldhouse
12—BOXING-—Bengal Bouts, Fieldhouse
13—BOXING—Bengal Bouts, Fieldhouse
14—FENCING—Louisville at Louisville
14—TRACK—K. of C. Relays at Cleveland
the greatest boxers in Bengal history. In the ’50 Bouts it was a repeat performance as Roblez decisioned him in the 157-pound class for the crown. Brown thumped his way to the winner’s circle in the 167-pound class in 1951. The added weight each year plus the added experience has placed Brown among the best boxers to prance in the Old Gym. This year he should take his place among the kings of the Bengal Bouters.
Juniors Open Annual Lenten Retreat Tomorrow Night at 8
Tomorrow evening the Junior Class will open their annual Lenten retreat at 8 o’clock in Dillon Hall chapel. The retreat will be given by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president.
Father Hesburgh will begin the retreat with a conference at 8 p.m., fol-followed by outdoor Stations of the Cross and confessions in the main church at 9.
Sunday morning, the Juniors will hear Mass at 8 o’clock and attend a conference at 10:30. The retreat wall close with a conference at 1:30 p.m., followed by outdoor Stations of the Cross and the Apostolic Blessing.
Next week the Sophomores will hold their retreat. Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., will act as retreat master.
German Satire on Militarism £ Next in Foreign Film Series
“The Captain From Koepenick” will be presented next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium as the third movie in the Foreign Film Series, sponsored by the Department of Modern Languages.
Ths German film, a pungent satire cn the petty militarism of the time, was produced several years prior to World War II. It is the story of a cobbler, unable to secure a passport and not able to find work without one.
In desperation he purchases a captain’s uniform, recruits a company of soldiers, and descends upon the local government of a small town. He completely takes over in the town, including the confiscating of all funds, under his assumed authority.
Admission to “The Captain From a Koepenick,” which has the sound track in German and English subtitles, will be 25 cents.
Raque Estimates Carnival Returns Will Reach $5,500
Ed Raque, Mardi Gras carnival chairman, placed the gross returns of the three-day carnival at $7,402. He estimated that the net returns would run to about $5,500 after all the bills have been paid.
This estimate does not include the money to be gotten from the Car award or the week-end events because these figures are not yet available. All Mardi Gras profits will go to the Student Council campus charity chest to be dispersed from there.
The New Jersey Club and the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club tied for the $50 prize which went for the most profitable booth. Duplicate prizes were awarded.
ND Students Get High Rating In NROTC Preliminary Tests
Thirty-three students in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps unit at Notre Dame ranked in the top 21 per cent among approximately 33,000 students throughout the United States who submitted to recent college aptitude tests, preliminary to selection for regular status in the Naval ROTC program.
The 33 Notre Dame students, according to results of the test released by the Department of the Navy, finished among the top 7,000 students in marks attained.
Of these 7,000 contract students who took the tests, approximately 2,000 will be selected for regular status on the basis of marks on the aptitude tests, high school and college records, and marks assigned at the interview.
30
The Scholastic
* Capsule Comer
Glee Club in Chicago Tonight
Led by Director Daniel Pedtke, the Notre Dame Glee Club will present a concert tonight at the Academy of Our Lady in Longwood on Chicago’s south side. The program will launch a building-fund campaign at the Academy.
Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations, will speak on behalf of the University. James Etling will be piano soloist.
Architectural Design Contest
A national design contest open to architectural students at Notre Dame has been announced by the Tile Council of America.
0) Students competing through Notre Dame will be eligible for both a local prize of $25 and for the national award of $100.
The 'competition calls for the planning of an airline bus terminal, with special attention to be given to the use of clay and wall and floor tile as a decorative and ornamental factor, as well as for its properties as a durable material for public areas.
The contest closes May 17 and will be judged between May 27 and June 3. Further information may be obtained from the Department of Architecture.
Amundson on Epilepsy-
“Epilepsy” will be considered in the Sociology Period talk to be given by Mr. Robert H. Amundson, at 11 a.m. in Room 327 of the Main Building. Mr. Amundson, a Teaching Fellow in the Department of Sociology, will discuss the nature and modern treatment of this disorder.
Chamber Concert
The first in a series of chamber concerts to be held in Washington Hall by the Notre Dame Music Department will be presented in the form of a violinpiano recital by Leo Michuda and Richard Casper, respectively, next Friday at 8 p.m. Admission is free.
Ruhnke Addresses Metallurgists
Mr. D. H. Ruhnke, chief Metallurgist for the Central Alloy District of Republic Steel Corporation, will speak at the March meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals, next Wednesday. Subject of the talk will be “Boren Steels.” The meeting, in conjunction with a chapter dinner, will be held at 6:30 p.m. in the Dining Hall.
The speaker attended the University of Minnesota where he received the degree of Metallurgical Engineer in 1925. He joined the staff of the Metallurgical Department of Republic Steel in 1933.
ND Booklet in Korea
The Reformation: Caiises and Consequences, a 60-page booklet authored by the Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre’ Dame, has been published in the Korean language by the Taegu Catholic Press in Seoul, Korea.
The Taegu Catholic Press had fallen into the hands of the Communists, who destroyed the plates of Father O’Brien’s book, necessitating a second printing.
Smith Addresses Philosophers
Dr. Vincent Smith, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and editor of the quarterly journal of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, will open the Association’s 26th annual meeting with a paper entitled “Abstraction and the Experimental World” on April 15 and 16 at the Hotel Statler, Cleveland, Ohio.
Writers’ Conference Here June 23
Miss Betty Finnin, of New York City, Fiction Editor of Women’s Day magazine, will be one of the principal members of the staff of the fourth annual Writer’s Conference to be’ held here at Notre Dame June 23-28.
The Notre Dame Writers’ Conference, directed by Professor Louis L. Hasley of the Department of English, will be divided into three workshops—Fiction, Poetry and the Teaching of Creative Writing. General purpose’ of the Conference is to provide criticism and direction for younger writers or teachers of creative writing by experienced staff members.
AROTC Basketball Tourney
The Intercollegiate Air Force R.O.-T.C. basketball tournament will be held in the’ Fieldhouse Sunday afternoon. Four colleges, besides Notre Dame will compete. They are Purdue, Ball State, Butler, and DePauw.
DANCE!
at the
Palais Royale
SATURDAY NIGHT
PHOTOS COPIED
20 for $1.00
DeLuxe Wallet-size Prints Send any size photo or negative No Proofs . . . Original returned
IDEAL FOR COLLEGE, ROTC, OR JOB APPLICATIONS
Federal Wallet-Size Photo Co.
P. O. Box 2448 Dept. Kansas City 6, Mo. (No C.O.D.’s Please)
WH 1OW AIR TOURIST RATES
Effective May 1st.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO SHANNON Onl, $433.80 LONDON* Oni> 486.00
PARIS	522.00
FRANKFORT om, 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon (Fores subject to government approval. Good low-cosr meals available on olanej
■ KLM Royal Duren Airlines	■
| 572 Fifth Avenue, New York 19. N V 1 ■ Please send full Information on ne» ■ I KLM Air Tourist Rates to Europe I ■ NAME............................. ■
J ADDRESS ......................... ■
L_________
March 7^. 1952
31
'Choose Your Major' Talks Get Underway
The sophomore class yesterday held the first two lectures of its ‘'Choose Your Major” program. It conducted another session this afternoon and three are planned for next week, all in the Law Building.
Each talk will last 20 to 25 minutes and will be followed by a discussion in which the students may ask questions about the major sequence. Most of the talks will be given by the heads of the various departments; some other faculty members will also speak.
The talks scheduled for next week are Monday at 7:15.—Finance, Thursday at 4:05—Sociology7, and Friday at 4:05—combination law program. The two yesterday, dealt with Marketing and Speech; this afternoon’s talk took up business adnfnistration.
There are several other lectures scheduled for the week of March 10,
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOR SHEEDY was in the soup with a turtle named Myrtle. "I’m in a tortizzy," he wailed, "what shell 1 do?" "Well, it’s your messy hare that parts you from all the girls," his roommate said. "Better get Wildroot Cream-Oil!” Nonalcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Relieves dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he’s out turtlenecking all the time! So don’t stick yosn neck out...get some terrapin-money and hurry to the nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle of tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. And ask for it on your hare at your favorite barber shop. Then you’ll really be in the swim.
# of 151 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. \'
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
■ MIOU*.
on-
ctooa<Ma*n
dealing with the various major sequences in the A.B. and Commerce schools. Of the addresses next week, Finance is for Commerce students, sociology for Liberal Arts men, and the law program for either course.
The director of the “Choose Your Major” program is Yates Hafner of 225 Lyons. He said that he felt “that the main purpose of the program is to help the sophs choose their major sequence by cooperating between the students and the faculty.”
He has asked the speakers to emphasize the practical value of the major as well as the subject matter.
Earlier in the semester the committee passed out a survey sheet to ail the sophomores. Almost two thirds of those who replied indicated they would be interested in attending lectures on the major sequences, and about half said they were still undecided about their major.
The committee working on the “Choose Your Major” program is com
posed, besides Hafner, of Bruce Fox and Tom Stubler of the Commerce school; Tom Calder, Joe Imbriaco, and Walt Babcock of Arts and Letters; and Chuck Weitzel of the General Program. Bill Fagan is in charge of publicity.
ND Begins Perpetual Novena Tonight at 8
This evening at 8 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church, the Perpetual Novena in honor of Our Mother of Sorrows will be inaugurated at Notre Dame.
Rev. C. M. Brissette, O.S.M., national director of the Perpetual Novena, will conduct the opening service. Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will deliver the sermon, which will be broadcast over radio station WCFL, Chicago.
The Novena is being started on campus in order to focus attention on the world peril and the need for a lasting peace between all nations.
The Perpetual Novena was inaugurated by the Servite Fathers of Chicago in 1937 in Our Lady of Sorrows Church. It was primarily through this Novena that devotion to Our Lady of Fatima was propagated in this country.
From the very beginning the Novena was a success and it was only a matter of months until it began to be adopted in various parishes throughout the country.
Today, at the end of 15 years, the Sorrowful Mother Novena has been established in more than 2,000 churches in the United States and Canada. It has also been introduced in 31 foreign countries. Well over a million people attend these weekly devotions.
The devotions are carried on weekly in prisons, hospitals, convents, seminaries and colleges. Notre Dame is the first major men’s university to introduce the Novena.
Many people make the Novena to obtain personal favors. All are a part of an international crusade to pray for the conversion of Russia and for world peace.
Fall Semester Offers New Elective for Lay Catechists
During the past year some 50 ND students have been working in the field of high school catechetics, convert instruction and adult study groups in South Bend and surrounding territory.
In order to prepare the men for more efficient work, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Re- . ligion, is arranging to offer a three-hour ’ three-credit elective for the fall term.
32
The Scholastic
NFCCS Congress
(Continued from page 9) here on campus, in five of the residence halls.
The Congress will handle all constitutional matters of the NFCCS, set Federation policy for the coming year, and determine important commission policies. It will also elect new national officers for the Federation and manage the overseas service program. Much work has already been accomplished in the latter field, since over $3,500,000 has been spent during the past six years for foreign student relief.
Chairman O’Connell has announced that plans are in preparation for a great variety of federational, religious, and social activities, to be carried on while the Congress is in session.
At each of the commission panels nationally known speakers will talk on widely diverse subjects, ranging from social service and industrial relations to Mariology and Notre Dame’s own Catholic Action Study Commission.
The local Notre Dame council also hopes to promote possible new commissions for politics, commerce, and engineering. All in all, there will be about 16 of these panels. Their policies will be implemented by ten plenary sessions to be held in one of the Dining Halls.
Some prominent national figure, as well as various local and state officials, will be engaged to speak at the opening plenary session. They will discuss the general theme of the Congress and the role of Catholic universities in American life.
Mass, Benediction, and Compline will be offered every day for those attending the Congress, and, in the social line, a picnic and dance have been planned.
Besides O’Connell, other officers working on the project are Marshall Desmond, general arrangements chairman, Don Carbone, publicity chairman, and Bob Hoodecheck, treasurer. Phil Bolin is in charge of registration, and Joe Nash will take care of the transportation angle. Other chairmen will be announced as selected.
Held in conjunction with the Congress will be a Student Government President’s Workshop, at which nearly 200 Catholic college student residents will study the role of student government in college and the part the NFCCS can play in that role.
Registration and arrangements for the Workshop will be handled here at । Notre Dame, while publicity and pro-f gram affairs will be handled by Joseph McMahon, national vice-president, from Manhattan College, N. Y. •

Letters
Continued from page 4) by University and students, you’ll get your representative. One of its new provisions is a representative-at-la>rge from each, college.—Ed.
Editor:
I would like to call your attention to the current (March) issue of Catholic Digest. . . It is, I think, an excellent issue and offers challenging and interesting reading to minds of all levels. With such a periodical, as the Catholic digest has grown to be, no Catholic can find excuse for not reading Catholic literature.
Name Withheld
For more on Catholic periodicals, see Bill Riley’s column, “The Back Page” in this issue.—Ed.
Editor:
I think it is positively ridiculous that something can’t be done about the weather that seems to hover around
South Bend most of the year. Sometimes it’s not bad at all. In fact it’s very nice, but my gripe is that it changes too much. Couldn’t something be done about it? What about Bill Riley. . . doesn’t he have some solution to the problem? He seems to have an answer to all the other perplexing things of interest and certainly the weather around here is interesting. . . and perplexing.
Roger O’Keefe Breen-Phillips.
ATTENTION MEN!
Do you need a typewriter?
Don’t rent an old machine
Rent a new portable or late model standard. Forbes' PLAN permits 3 months' rental as purchase credit if you desire.
Forbes Typewriter Co.
Forbes Bldg., 228 W. Colfax, Opp. Tribune
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club—
the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39
March 7. 1952
33
sounding the clarion call for bigger and better campus clubs. ... In 1902, 9 there was a poem.
By Bill Riley
Just on the off-chance that Shannon View Mike or his dun-colored mate Patsy might know something definite on the spring-practice situation (nobody else seems to, except for an enterprising fteshman engineer over in Farley who’s selling periscopes), I dropped over to the stadium the other afternoon, for a little chat.
Mike, a taciturn fellow at best, had nothing definite to offer. The substance of his comment ran something like this: ‘•'Well, the American Council of Education says no spring practice at all, and Father Cavanaugh was a member of the President’s group that i ecommended none. But on the other hand, the N.C.A.A. seems to want a limited practice, and Moose Krause was down there at that meeting, in Cincinnati. Doesn’t make a lot of difference to me, except if there isn’t any they won’t be coming around to take my picture on March 17, but Patsy here is all upset about it. She says if photographers are going to be snooping around in a couple of weeks, she wants this place straightened up. 'A woman’s got some pride you know,’ she says, and I can sympathize with her. Seems as though we ought to decide whether or not we’re going to practice this spring. We’re going to make our decision on the rightness or the wrongness of the thing anyway, and there’s not much reason to wait around and see what the others are going to do.”
So reasoned Mike, and many were those who wished that the situation would appear as clear to all concerned.
* * * *
A group (this is a transition sentence) who seem to have a clear view of situations in general is the one that puts out a magazine for Catholic high school students. The magazine is called Today, and it emphasizes, by contrast, many of the defects that we found while taking a look at the Catholic press last fall.
Today is not a trade magazine of the Catholic Church. It is not devoted to ecclesiastical vital statistics, but seems to have as its object keeping the Catholic informed on the Christian outlook on pressing current-day problems. It does not cover up its soundly thought-out arguments with
weighty, ponderous verbiage. It is written sharply, clearly and tersely.
It is not pietistic. It judges art (in its movie and book review columns) first of all on the goodness or badness of the art itself. It does not consider, as do many Catholic periodicals, a Catholic novel to be a story about a priest, and a Catholic picture to be one with sweet-faced nuns and dirty-faced children in it.
It has bright, sparkling make-up, even though forced to use relatively low-cost paper stock. It is written straight across the board to the reader, with no attempt at over-simplification of glossy platitudes. The finished product shows that the writer thought before he wrote.
There is not evident, as there is in many Catholic periodicals, an attempt to find a compromise with secularism, or a sort of Catholic-coated secularism. Secularism is recognized as the most serious enemy of the Church today, and called a foe.
There is nothing slick about Today, but it seems to be a magazine that a Catholic high school student can read without feeling that the editor is either a moron or else considers him (the student) to be one.
* $ $ # *
Because of the quiet that covered the campus, except for a little tinkling sound, I have got into a reminiscent mood. And sentiment being what it is I decided to see what my predecessors were writing about in the previous years that this column has been a fixture.
In 1951, Walt Collins was wishing everyone a Happy Easter . . . 1950, Ken Thoren liked the St. Mary’s Variety Show . . . 1949, Max Browser was
------ADVENTURE^
35 jPays-from 9 399 Offered by America’s largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Leu
Tours la MEXICO, The Scenic I . 0 West, Alaska, South America, m	Bermuda or The Orient.
J-VTUl Our 19th Year
See your local npnsem-ath* or write ter
9 H4F th. STunorrs intei«natiomm. w ■ ■ Mjh tmvsl MsociATtati
---545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 17«MV 742M
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Juniors and Seniors CIVIL ENGINEERS
Wisconsin State Highway Program.
•
Interviews Monday March 10th, 2 p. m.
ENGINEERING BLDG.
Room 202
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
34
The Scholastic
College Men!
CHOOSE A CAREER
the U.S. Air Force

PILOT
AIRCRAFT OBSERVER
Aviation Cadet Program Offers Special Opportunities for Collegians Now Preparing for Military Service

Here is a real man-size opportunity! You can choose—immediately—between being a Pilot or Aircraft Observer in America’s swiftly-expanding Air Force. The Air Force encourages candidates to stay in school and graduate. However, seniors and students with two years or more of college who anticipate early entrance into military service can insure their future and serve their country best by applying for Aviation Cadet Training today. You receive the finest training and experience when you fly with the U. S. Air Force—experience that pays off in later years.
WHO MAY APPLY
AGE—Between 19 and 26’A years. EDUCATION—At least two years of college.
MARITAL STATUS—Single.
PHYSICAL CONDITION—Good, especially eyes, ears, heart, and teeth.
HOW TO QUALIFY
4. The Selective Service Act awards you a fourmonth deferment while awaiting class assignment.
5. Immediate assignment to Aviation Cadet Training Classes starting May 27, July 19, August 19 and October 2, 1952.
3. Accomplish Flying Aptitude Tests and enlist for two years only!
I • Take transcript of college credits and copy of birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station.
6. Attend Aviation Cadet Training School for' one year—either as Pilot or Aircraft Observer. Get $105 monthly plus food, housing, uniforms, and other benefits.
2. Appear for physical examination at your nearest Air Base at Government expense.
7. Graduate and win your wings! Commissioned as a second lieutenant, you begin earning $5,000 -a year. In addition, you receive $250 uniform allowance and a 30-day leave with pay.
WHERE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. S. Air Force Base or U. S. Army—U. S. Air Force Kecruiting Station or write direct to Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.
March' 7, 1952
35




TO CHESTERFIELD
VICE PRESIDENT, UNITED AIR UNES
Wherever you go-
AIR LIN£S
for MILDNESS_ plus
7KARETTES
UGG£TTt, MYEHS TOBACCO CO
DALE ROBERTSON
LYDIA BAILEY
"CHESTERFIELDS ARE PROVIDED
<9> EXCLUSIVELY on all United’s Strato-
cruiser flights to Honolulu. We have found our passengers prefer Chesterfields/7
gets his Chesterfields frorh . Stewardess Audrey Jjjnei'
See him starring in
A 20th Century-Fox Production Color by Technicolor


'FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
V ■ t-
kk' £ '
.. .AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT!


7^/1
11
Copyright 1952, Liggett & Mye>s To>ACCb^O7^^l