This book is not to takes from the Library
MAY 14 34 £
The Notre DaW
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
MAY 11
Nineteen Thirty-four
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
* Entered as second-claw matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns....
Mitchell C. Tackley.
—Editor-in-Chief .Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN--------------------JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD._____________.MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Sports Staff
JOHN D. OARBINE |
ED J. VAN HUISSELING f..
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR______
...............Sports Editors
______HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER________________JAMES A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER___________JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST
GERARD SCHAEFER________________JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOEGKLEY__________________Graduate Manager
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.--------------------stag Artist
Netvs Staff
THOMAS G. PROCTOR 1	.
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J	7 ------News Editors
ROY O. SHOLZ______________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY________________JOHN W. WAT-KER
GEORGE R. LEYES___________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY.__________________VINCENT A. GORMAN
CLIFFORD F. BROWN_________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER.____________JOHN J. MORAN
J. DICKSON MURPHY.------------.HARRY A. BALDWIN
ROBERT L. GROGAN--------------ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL
Volume LXVII
May 11, 1934
No. 25
BACK SLAPPING
Now that the melting pot of elections has cooled down, one would think that -the campus back slappers were ready to settle down to sucking their thumbs for another year. Not so, however. The back slappers, it seems, are not satisfied with confining their sports to the campus. Tuesday’s elections held in the gym drew a large percentage of the student body, whose only motive in voting was to satisfy some friend who was receiving a compensation of some kind for obtaining votes.
Students were waylaid on the way to their classes, halls, and meals. They were offered cigars, chatted with pleasantly, and given a breath taking automobile ride around the campus to the gym. They were told what cranks to pull, what answers to give to the men in charge, were thanked and returned to their residence hall.	.
It all seems like a very nice way of getting votes, and a “patriotic” method of participating directly in governmental affairs, but it causes one to wonder whether or not this kind of activity is becoming to any campus, much less Notre Dame.
OUT OF THE CLASSROOM
Washington Hall this semester has been the locale of many an enjoyable and profitable hour. The programs offered by the various campus groups and by the committee in charge of Washington Hall activities have been of a superior nature. Much has been accomplished in securing renowned lecturers, entertainers, singers, as well as in the arrangement of programs of local talent.
Not one student can afford to ignore the valuable aids to certain phases of one’s education that are offered in this out of the classroom activity. Certainly an abundance of material not to be found in any class can be gleaned from such lectures as have been presented in Washington Hall of late.
The speeches, given by Father John A. Ryan, Shane Leslie, Lorado Taft, the reading of Cyrano, the Univer
May 11, 1934
sity Theatre productions, the Linnet shows, the Symphony concerts, the Seidel-Groom and Sharpe-Melchione musicales, to say nothing of the demonstrations such as the cancer clinic last evening, are an integral part of what Notre Dame has to offer to the student.
To neglect to attend these various functions is to rob oneself of inestimable goods.
SPIRIT!
It is gratifying to know that there are those throughout the world vitally interested in Notre Dame and those connected with the school. “Tony” Antonio P. Roxas, ’26, his brother Eduardo G., ’33, and several other Notre Dame men, residents of Manila called Father O’Hara last Tuesday evening to inquire about the condition of Father ’ODonnell. Although it was Tuesday evening in Manila, it was Wednesday morning at Notre Dame.
CORSAGES BANNED
The senior class officers in charge of the Ball are to be congratulated on their motion to abolish corsages at this year’s dance. Two years ago The Scholastic began a campaign to ban corsages at all the Notre Dame dances. Since then several of the class officials have made similar motions but as yet the matter is entirely in the hands of the particular class officers in charge. There seems to be no reason why the ban on corsages should not be a definite part of every dance.
PUBLICATIONS’ DINNER
Each year some one hundred students, members of the various Notre Dame publications’ staffs, meet in the faculty dining room to dine. This year the banquet will be held next Tuesday evening. Fitting toasts will be given to the departing editors of the four major publications, The Scholastic, Dome, .higgler, and Scrip.
.	One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Crotvded
Washington Hall Monday evening ■ and the joint recital of Messrs. Sharpe and Melchione! Seldom have we witnessed a more perfect rapport between performers and audience. Rarer still a student audience to rise spontaneously and applaud long after the final curtain fall. So, bravo! to both.
Landmark
There was great excitement Sunday when the pier at the students’ swimming hole on St. Joseph’s Lake collapsed. But not much surprised was Ed Butler, the life-guard, who used to spend half his time marching around hammering nails into the old timbers to keep her afloat.
We nosed around to see what we could get on the old pier, but nobody seems to know much about it. It’s been there for some years—at least ten—but how it was come by seems to be something of a mystery. Then, too, it’s gone through all kinds of evolutions; it’s picture in the 1908 Dome is apparently unicellular, compared to the brilliance of the dear departed. Then, too, of course, the diving tower was the work of quite recent years. With characteristic ingenuity it was reared up at twelve feet—just two feet too high for springboard diving and three too low for platform.
In the new pier, however, these matters are going to be taken care of. Work was to have started on Wednesday, but we don’t know whether it did or not. We asked to see the architect’s plans, but were rebuffed.	■
They tell a story (probably libellous) that last Sunday, when the pier went down, one of the lifeguards conceived it his duty to dive under the sunken wreck, and see if anyone had been caught there. So he went in the boathouse and took off his good trunks, put on an old pair, and looked for victims.
Notes of Our Times
The new tennis courts look fine, though we didn’t get there soon enough to see if they were properly drained. One must be careful about drainage. And while it is an excellent thing to get some courts near the Howard-Morrissey-Lyons group, why put them in that hollow behind Lyons? Why not on the elevation next to the Dining Hall? Belike they will be filled with water most of the
spring, which will not only make them unplayable, but ruin the clay.
Why does there seem to be such a dearth of adorers this month? We can never remember when each day brought as many gaps. There seems to be a feeling on the part of most that the others will take care of it; certainly, no such feeling is warranted. We, personally, are sure, that more than half the excellence of Notre Dame is a direct result of adoration; and we feel sure that it will keep up if the volunteering goes on.
But much worse than not signing at all is signing and failing to show-up. Don’t be rats.
9
Aloha Ohe
Style Notes: Father Leo Heiser was the first to show forth in a straw hat. They say birettas are going out for good. Dick Kelly appeared in a nightshirt the other evening, the first seen in Sorin Hall for ten years.
Two weeks until senior examinations; Ball sentimentale this evening; one more Scholastic, one more Juggler—your last chance, Degnan, to insult us—Lord, all that work; and what-not—oh, well, two weeks from today we cry on your shoulders with ease and conviction.
Leonard Post
It’s not the big things that cause trouble; it’s the little things in life that we find so hard to bear. Take the case of Russ Leonard, the debonair Ball Chairman. There was a call over in Walsh last week for Brother Leonard, who dashed dutifully down to see what the matter was. A sweet soprano voice cooed to his “Hello.”
“Is this Mr. Leonard?” she asked.
“It is,” quoth Mr. Leonard.
“Oh, Mr. Leonard,” she said, “I’m in a terrible fix, and I know you could help me if you really would. Please?”
“Why, certainly,” said Mr. Leonard, girding on his maiden-in-distress manner. “Anything I can do.”
“Well,” she fumbled, “I just don’t know what to wear to the tea-dance, and honestly I can’t sleep for worrying about it. Mother says that two or three years ago all the girls wore sport clothes, but Emmaline—she’s my girl friend—says she knows positively they didn’t last year. I knew you could tell me about it, so I just thought I’d call you up and ask YOU personally so I’d be sure to be right.”
Monogram Formal to Be Held on Thursday
Last on the program of Springdances at Notre Dame is the annual Monogram Club Formal which will be held at the Palais Royale, South Bend, next Thursday evening, May 17. Clyde McCoy and his nationally famous orchestra will play.
Hugh Devore is general chairman of the dance. Together with Tom Roach, club president, Chairman Devore has been working on the plans for the dance. The sale of tickets is under way and will end Monday evening, May 14. Clay Johnson, 109 Walsh, is conducting the ticket sale.
Two bids are allowed to each member of the club. The tickets are priced at the nominal price of §1.00 a couple, being by far the lowest priced dance of the year. The dance is a semi-closed affair given each year by the Notre Dame Monogram Club. Tickets to the Monogram men are complimentary.
Students who receive a bid from any club member must present it at 109 Walsh Hall together with one dollar in order to obtain a ticket to the dance. The bids themselves are not tickets, but merely invitations. Because of the limited number of tickets, those planning to go are urged to contact a Monogram man and receive a bid.
Clyde McCoy and his music is perhaps one of the best orchestras to play at a school dance this year. McCoy, who played at the Drake Hotel, Chicago, is universally known for his inimitable rendition of “Sugar Blues.”
Notice
The following notice was issued today by the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline:	■
“It is hardly necessary to point out that the playgrounds behind Alumni Hall and the Law and Engineering Buildings are located right at the entrance to the University campus. Visitors must pass right by them on their way in. Students who make use of these recreation grounds are, therefore, asked to wear their shirts or sweaters, and are requested not to appear on them half-naked. The publicness of these playgrounds demands this consideration of common decency.”
For a moment Mr. Leonard was nonplussed. Never a couturier, he hadn’t the faintest notion what the woman should wear. But he hadn’t acquired a four-year crust of education for nothing. In a moment he was his assured self again.
“All the ones I know are going to wear puff sleeves,” he told her.
It seems to have satisfied her, for . he hasn’t heard from her since.
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, May 11
Senior Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom, 10 p.m.-2 a.m., C.S.T.; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Movie, “From Headquarters,” featuring George Brent and Margaret Lindsay, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, May 12
Senior Ball Tea Dance, Chain-o-Lakes Country Club, 3 to 6 p.m.; University band to participate in the grand finale of the Michigan Blossom festival at Benton Harbor and St. Joe, Michigan; Movie, “I Am Suzanne,” with Lillian Harvey and Gene Raymond, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, May 13
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7 p.m.; for freshmen and students in St. Ed’s and Lyons, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 14
Freshmen Oratorical contest opens; Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Electrical show, “House of Magic,” Washington Hall, 8 p.m.
Tuesday, May 15
Publications’ Banquet, Lay Faculty Dining Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday, May 16
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.
Thursday, May 17
Monogram Formal, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9-12 p.m., Daylight Saving Time.
Friday, May 18
Fourth and final issue of Scrip to be released.
Movie Tonight
As it is the custom to have a photoplay on the night of the Senior Ball, tonight, in Washington Hall the movie entitled “From Headquarters” will be shown at the regular hours. This production features George Brent and Margaret Lindsay. One of the short subjects accompanying the feature will be Rubinoff and his orchestra.
Senior Invitations
Commencement Invitations furnished to Seniors by the University without cost can be obtained from the Alumni Office in the Main Building on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, May 14, 15, and 16. Ten invitations are given to each Senior. They must be called for in person. The office is open from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., campus time.
Carbine, Doyle, Walker, And Lawton Named ’34-’35 Editors
Oratory----
Sixteen students will participate in the freshmen oratorical contest which is to be held on May 14, in the basement of the Law Building. There will be two preliminaries; one at 4 o’clock and the other at 7 o’clock in the evening. The finals are to be held on Wednesday evening, May 15, at 7 o’clock in the basement of the Law Building. The rules of the contest have been announced in The Scholastic. The prize of §10, which is to be given to the winner, has been donated by the University.
Those who are to try out for the prize on May 14 at 4 o’clock are the following: Richard Femcase, Arthur Gerend, Peter J. Johnen, Mark Lonergan, Richard McArdle, Tom Schei-fer, and James A. Waldron.
The following will try out on Tuesday evening at 7 o’clock: F. W. Becker, Edward Boyle, Carl Doozen, Frank Gallagher, Vincent McCoola, John Marvach, Harold Miller, and Robert C. Weaver.
Those students who sent in their names and are omitted from the above list please see Mr. Coyne so that things may be straightened out.
Jassoy Elected President
Of N.D. Minnesota Club
Robert Jassoy, a junior in the Commerce School, defeated Bill Gui-mont, for the presidency of the Minnesota Club at the elections held Monday evening, May 7, in the Brownson Rec. The other minor officers are: Jim Keough, vice president; and Daniel McLaughlin, secretarytreasurer. Donald McIntosh, past president of the club, gave a retirement speech which terminated the club’s activities.
CONTENTS
Nezus
Neiv Editors Named ............ 3
“Dome" Previeiu ..............  4
Senior Ball ................... 5
Publications’ Dinner .......... 6
Commencement .................. 7
“Scrip" ....................... 8
Glee Club ...................   9
Recital .......................10
Sports
Michigan State Track ..........11
Golf ..........................12
Baseball ......................13
Introduccing ..................14
Splinters .....................15
On Down The Dine...............16
APPOINTED TODAY
John D. Carbine, Gerald P. Doyle, John W. Walker, and George A. Lawton, were appointed to the 1934-35 editorships today by the Faculty Board of Publications. The appointments were announced by the Rever.
John D. Carbine Will edit The Scholastic
end Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the board.
Carbine will edit The Scholastic and will succeed James S. Kearns. Doyle will be the 1934-35 editor-in-chief of the Juggler, Walker will edit the Dome, and Lawton, Scrip. Bryan J. Degnan, Louis H. Hruby, and Paul F. McManus are the retiring editors of Juggler, Dome and Scrip.
Carbine acted as co-sports editor of The Scholastic this year, Doyle was art editor of the Juggler, Walker was a valuable aid to the editor of the Dome, and Lawton a frequent contributor and adviser to Scrip.
Pictures of Walker, editor of Dome and Doyle editor of Juggler appear on pages six and seven respectively. A picture of Lawton, editor of the literary quarterly, appears on page 9.
Editor Ill
James S. Kearns, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic is confined to General Hospital, Iowa City, Iowa, recuperating from an operation. The members of The Scholastic staff hope for a speedy recovery.
No “Scholastic” Next Week
Because Scrip, literary quarterly of the campus will be issued next week, there will be no Scholastic until the week of May 25. The final issue will appear at that time.
May 11, 1934
Three
Preview of 1934 “Dome” Shows Book to be N. D. Picture Story
HRUBY’S WORK EXCELLENT
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Notre Dame in pictures might well be the sub-title of the 1934 Dome, heralded and much-looked-forward-to, yearbook. A panorama of University iife for the school year, 1933-34, told in the language of perfectly toned photography tells the story of the
Louis H. Hruby
Produces best “Dome” in years.
new Dome. Louis H. Hruby, junior, editor-in-chief of the work, has combined his ingenuity and knowledge in the art of make-up, balance, and color harmony to produce one of the most attractive and most artistic yearbooks ever to appeal’ on the campus.
Fitting and quite novel in nature is the dedication of the book to the “Men of Notre Dame,” the student body whose main objective is to uphold the Notre Dame ideal. The publication is entirely Notre Dame from its gold letters “Dome” on the black leather modernistic cover, through its pages, some outlined with gold metallic ink and others in deep blue, to the final pages which are devoted to snapshots and intimate photos of the inner campus life.
The yearbook is about four hundred pages in length, every page a vivid account of some event or a pic-torialized phase of University administration. Like a history book, the Dome is arranged so that the events are in their chronological order. The events begin with the activities in September and end with the final function of the school year, Commencement.
New sections have been created by Editor Hruby, and old ones have been abolished. Group pictures of
Science —
Dr. Gilbert Fitz-Patrick, chairman of the Illinois Cancer Committee, spoke last evening in Washington Hall at the meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science held in conjunction with the St. Joe Valley Medical Society.
Dr. Fitz-Patrick spoke on “The History of the Fight Against Cancer, Its Present Status and Future Possibilities.” The lecture was illustrated by the Canti Films showing the growth of sarcomas in tissue cultures and by other slides on the subject.
Dr. J. V. Cassady, of South Bend, who presided as chairman of the meeting was introduced by Hugh F. O’Neil, president of the Academy.
The discussion following the presentation of the main address was opened by Dr. Alfred S. Giordano, pathologist and head of the South Bend Medical laboratory.
Plans for the final meeting of the Academy, at which the presentation of keys of permanent membership is to be made, are being arranged bjr the executive committee.
the Academic Council, Board of Student Welfare, Board of Publications, and Faculty Dance Board, nevei* before considered Dome material are used by Hruby. A full page cut of the platform with the many renowned speakers at last year’s Commencement exercises, is a feature of the book well worth the prominent space allotted to it.
Candidates for the degrees are arranged according to their Colleges. Each College section is introduced with a suitable photograph symbolic of some special, phase of the school. The end pieces likewise symbolic, . connote in most cases, the realization of the goals of the particular college. The seniors do not appear in cap and gowns as has been the custom in previous issues. ,
Our Lady on the dome is photographed in the moonlight from an unusual angle. The beauty of this one picture alone is a special credit to the Dome. All the halls, campus buildings, and views are night photographs. The reproductions are in a blue-green tint and in themselves are an accomplishment in photography.
To Vittorio Arcadi, photographer for the Dome, much credit must be given. There are more than two thousand pictures in the yearbook, a large percentage of which are either (Continued on Page 20)
Electric Show to be Given Here May 14
By J. Dickson Murphy
Startling and entertaining demonstrations of the General Electric exhibit at The Century of Progress in Chicago known to 700,000 people who saw them as the “House of Magic,” will be brought here on Monday, May 14 by Richard H. Mighell, of the G. E. research laboratory at Schenectady. The demonstrations will take place at 8:00 p. m. in Washington Hall.
The stroboscope, with its “motionless motion,” the cathode ray oscillograph, audible light and visible sound, ultra-violet radiations, the mysteries of high frequency, and the versatile phototube, or electric eye will be part of the presentation of Mr. Mighell.
A high-freqeuncy set, which resembles a miniature broadcasting station, will be used by Mr. Mighell to show how the effects of the artificial fever machine are utilized in the treatment of disease. Plain glass tubes, with sealed gases inside, light up when brought into the field of the radiations, and the demonstrator will “wipe” the light from them with a sweep of his hand.
Music—singing, whistling, or the playing of instruments—that can be thrown on the wall in the form of light, and the glow of a lamp that comes to the audience in the form of sound—these are only a few of the demonstrations that you see when you go there.
Using the phototube, or what has come to be known as the “electric eye,” Mr. Mighell will pick up music from a phonograph and cast it upon the wall in the form of parti-colored light, very pretty but extremely silent. The current from the phonograph pick-up is so arranged as to travel to a lamp mounted on a tripod instead of a loudspeaker, the sound waves being transformed into light. The lamp, having the ability to go on and off hundreds of thousands of thousands of times a second, transmits an even-changing light beam equivalent to the notes of the phonograph record. When the beam is focused on a phototube pick-up, however, the light is once more turned into music. The sound can be interrupted by interception of the beam at any time. By using a disk and partially intercepting the beam of light, Mr. Mighell produces what he terms “saxaphone music with a scalloped edge.”
Bill Fromm, chairman of the local branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, is handling the arrangements for the lecture.
The Scholastic
F o u r
Music and Drama In Commencement Play
Senior Weekend Festivities To Begin Tonight With Ball Proper
Rehearsals are in progress for the stage production to be presented by the Commencement Committee in Washington Hall on the eve of Commencement. In place of the drama, “Turn To The Right,” this offering by the combined talents of the University Theatre, the Glee Club and the Collegians, will attempt to depict Notre Dame life of the past.
Such ancient scenes as those about the Old College, some sixty-five or seventy years ago, that of Brother “Leep’s” store with its lemonade and “fours,” (In those days lemonade and three crackers cost a nickel. Of the crackers which were contained in numbered trays, the “fours”—chocolate-covered marshmallows with a pecan on the top — were the favorites) and Louie Nickel’s famous South Bend hostelry, will be resurrected. An actual occurrence which took place in the front line dugout occupied by Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., while he was a World War chaplain in France, will be portrayed “in true Journey’s End fashion” according to Professor Kelly.
Feature Gleesters and Collegians
For the last month Professor Vincent Fagan of the architectural school has been busy gathering material and information with the aim of making the production authentically “Notre Dame.” The scenes have been prepared through the interest of Rev. M. Walsh, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Among the members of the lay faculty assisting the directors are Professors: James McCarthy, and Norbert Engels, with Asssitant Coach, “Chet” Grant. Students engaged in writing skits and several of the songs are: Craine, Healy, Johnson, and J. Roach.
The musical direction of the show is in the hands of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, who is transposing and arranging the many original musical numbers for introduction to the campus by the University Glee Club and the Collegians, campus rhythm makers.
Professor Frank Kelly is competently directly the staging and dramatic end of the production, and has already begun casting and training such well-known campus actors as James J. Boyle, seen this year in both of the University Theatre Productions, Charles Jahr, and John Henry, Thomas Stritch, John Sweeney, Thomas Proctor, and Hugh Fitzgerald, George Menard, Justin Tompkins, and Ned Quinn.
Professor Albert Doyle is expected to take a leading role if his health is sufficiently improved.
Week-end Program
Senior Ball, tonight, 10 to 2 with 3 o’clock permissions.
Golf match with Northwestern, 9:00 a.m., and 1:30 p.m. Saturday.
Baseball: N.D. vs. Indiana, at 3:00, Cartier Field, Saturday. Track: N.D. vs. Michigan State 1:30 p.m., Saturday.
Tea Dance, Chai n-o-L a k e s Country Club, 3 to 6 o’clock, Saturday.
Informal parties, South Bend, Saturday evening.
Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 9 o’clock, Sunday morning.
Soccer: LaRaza vs. Michigan U 10:00 a.m., Sunday.
(All hours are C.S.T.)
Directions To Chain-o-Lakes
Take Route 20, Chicago highway, outside of city limits to Edison road. Turn left, drive to concrete road, follow Edison road for approximately three miles and turn left on concrete road. Country Club is on right over railroad crossing. Direction cards will point the way.
Symphony Orchestra Is Successful At St. Mary’s
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, led by Professor Richard H. Seidel, scored a hit in its annual concert at St. Mary’s College, Friday evening, May 4. A large crowd of students, both from the Academy and the College, together with a number of Sisters, crammed St. Angela’s Hall on the St. Mary’s campus to enthusiastically receive the local body of musicians.
Among the numbers played which proved most popular with the audience were the “Suite of Flowers,” by H. Hadley, an expressive theme depicting the atmosphere and moods created by various types of flowers; the “Ballet Egyptian,” a noted work of A. Luigini in four movements; and a selection of favorite Irish tunes.
Staff Notice
There will be no formal Scholastic meeting tonight. The next and final meeting of the various staffs will be held on next Friday evening, May 18th, at the regulai- time and place.
TEA DANCE TOMORROW
This weekend is definitely senior weekend at Notre Dame. Tonight at the Palais Royale in South Bend, two hundred and fifty seniors and their guests will celebrate the 1934 Senior
Leonard and Moscow Chairman and President.
Ball, the last formal get-together of the class members before Commencement. With Harry Sosnik and his Chicago orchestra furnishing the music, President James V. Moscow and Chairman Russell J. Leonard heading the reception committee at the door of the Palais, the Ball proper is sure to be a brilliant success.
The Ball tonight is but the first of a group of. events planned to make the weekend one long to be remembered. Tomorrow, there is a variety of athletic events at the University to which the seniors and their guests are cordially invited.
In the morning and early afternoon, the golf team will meet Northwestern; in the afternoon, there will also be a track meet with Notre Dame and Michigan State participating, as well as a baseball game between the local team and Indiana U.
The tea dance will be held at Chain-O-Lakes Country Club, a few miles west of South Bend, from three until six o’clock tomorrow. Reservations may be made for dinner at the club following the dance. Bill Motsett, Walsh, is in charge of all tea dance arrangements.
By action of the senior class president and' officials in charge of the Ball, a ban on corsages has been declared. The Palais Ballroom will be transformed into an atractive garden atmosphere.
The favors for the dance are evening bags of white mesh. The programs, which will be distributed at the door, are of black material with a silver background. The words, “Senior Ball,” are etched in white under which is a silhouette of a girl and a boy.
The Queen of the 1934 Ball is Miss Ruth Flynn, of St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, who is the guest of
(Continued on Paste IT)
May 11, 1934
Fiv e'
Members of N. D. Publications9 Staffs
Will Banquet On Next Tuesday, May 15
Shrine of Holy Face Placed in the Church
TOAST TO ALL OLD EDITORS
Typewriters, copy, deadlines and page proofs will be forgotten next Tuesday, May 15, when the annual Publications Banquet will be held in the Faculty Dining Hall at 7:00 pan. Approximately 125 men who have worked throughout the school year on the various student publications will be present.
Invitations have also been extended to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, and to the members of the Faculty Board of Publications.
Msgr. Shannon Invited
The principal speaker of the evening will be the Right Rev. Monsignor Thomas V. Shannon, who for 21 years has been editor of the New World, official organ of the archdiocese of Chicago. Monsignor Shannon was a special correspondent of the Chicago Tribune during the International Eucharistic Congress at Montreal in 1910, and also served as the official representative of Cardinal Mundelein at a similar Congress held in Carthage, Africa, in 1930. He has performed several diplomatic missions, being decorated- by the countries of Italy, Spain and France. At present he is pastor of Saint Thomas the Apostle Church, situated on Chicago’s South Side.
Entertainment during the course of the banquet is to be furnished by John Sharpe and Tom Bott at the pianos, George Menard as baritone soloist, and the trio of Justin Tomkins, William Fromm and Thomas Flynn.
Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Board of Publications will initiate the evening’s festivities with preliminary remarks.
A.S.M.E. Hears Talk By
W. van Haitsma on Airplanes
Monday night at 7:30 the A. S. M. E. held a meeting in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. Chairman Joseph I. Hayes opened the meeting by welcoming the guests and announcing the date of the next meeting.
The main speaker was Mr. Walter van Haitsma of the Boeing school of Aeronautics who gave a very interesting talk and showed five reels of movies covering the history, construction and operation of the aeroplane. ,
There were about 100 students present, many of whom were from the Commerce and Arts schools.
Six
EDITOR
John Walker
Named editor-in-chief of the Dome for 1934-35. He succeeds Louis Hruby.
St. Vincent de Paul Group Announces Magazine Drive
John Gallagher was appointed chairman of the “Magazine Drive” at the meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul society in the basement of Walsh Hall Tuesday evening at 7:00.
The following members of the society will collect old magazines in the halls designated:
Corby Hall—M. C. Perone, A. Petrillo, and George Martinet.
Walsh Hall—William Franks, Bud Zimmerman.
Sorin Hall—Frank McGahren, Vince McAloon, and Al Phaneuf.
Alumni Hall—C h a r 1 e s Bragg, Frank Hochreiter, Krug, and Mc-Devitt.
Dillon Hall—John Gallagher, and Jim Smith.
Morrissey Hall—Joe Weiss, Bob McDonough, and Burke.
Howard Hall—A r t h u r Gregory, Joe Flyn.
Lyons Hall—E. F. Owens, and John Desmond.
Badin Hall—Charles Hill, and Ed Cleary.
St. Edward’s Hall—Dan Mahoney, Phoebus and Hanley.
Brownson and Can-oil Halls— Carr mi Belmont.
Auth Reads Pape/
Andrew C. Auth, ArBLsenior, read a paper to the Philosophy of Education Seminar at the last regular session held last Friday. His subject concerned the philosophy of the elementary grades of education.
This afternoon, Dr. Klutterbuck, South Bend, will address the Seminar. The meeting will be held at 4:30 in the Law Building.
A new shrine of the Holy Face and Passion of Christ is one of the attractive additions to the recently renovated Church of the Sacred Heart. It has been placed in the chapel of the Guardian Angels, the one to the west, off the Adoration Chapel.
The shrine is in the form of a triptych, that is, a central frame with panels on either side. It is of hand carved poplar modelled after a thirteenth century design. The wood has been treated to harmonize with the other fittings in the chapel. The ornamental parts are overlaid with gold leaf to which are added thin lines of blue and red on the panels.
A votive lamp of silver filigree with bands in gold plate hangs from an ornamental bracket newly made. The lamp is hand wrought throughout and represents months of patient, artistic work. Experts of the Chicago Museum of Fine Arts have placed it as Italian of the mid-eighteenth century. It was discovered by Rev. L. Broughal, C.S.C., in an antique shop in Chicago, but he was unable to learn anything further of its history.
150 Years Old
The picture of the Holy Face, which occupies the central panel, is the same one which hung in the church these many years. It is an authentic copy from the original Veronica’s Veil preserved in the Vatican. The fact that it is done on linen probably places it as being about one hundred and fifty years old.
The devotion to the Holy Face was especially propagated by a Monsieur Dupont, a wealthy gentleman of Tours, France. For this reason he is reverently known as “the Holy Man of Tours.” Father Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and Monsieur Dupont were close friends. At the invitation of Father Moreau Monsieui- Dupont established at Le Mans, France, the cradle of the Congregation, the confraternity of the devotion to the Holy Face and Passion of Christ.
Father Moreau in turn, bj' a circular letter, recommended that in every House of the Congregation an authentic copy of Veronica’s Veil was to be exposed and a lamp kept constantly burning before it in reparation. for blasphemy and the desecration of the Sabbath. This new shrine in its simple beauty is a fitting response to the desires of these two holy men.
The whole work, exclusive of the picture, is the gift of Mr. A. O. Figge of Oak Park, Illinois. We appreciate his generosity and may it redound to his interests both temporal and eternal."
The Scholastic
Adventure Story on New Library List
Included among this week’s addition to the Library is the 26-year-old Englishman, Peter Fleming’s Brazilian Adventure—a Book of the Month Club selection. Fleming tells the story of a group of young Englishmen in the unexplored jungle land of Central Brazil, on the trail of Col. P. H. Fawcett. The journey covered 3000 miles. Mr. Fleming says his book “differs from most books about expeditions in being throughout strictly truthful.”
The popular Alva Lee’s Am erica Sivings to the Left should be of interest to every college student. This book presents a clear, concise, and logical picture of our economic situation and its implications. Although by no means condemning entirely the work of the administration, the book takes issue bolldly with some of its policies, points out fallaciess, and offers constructive refutation of the propaganda which has already become dangerously insistent.
For biography lovers The Life of Cardinal Mercier by John A. Gade has been added. A non-Catholic, Gade paints an impartial but exceedingly sympathetic and vivid picture of the man who, more than any other, brought to focus in a time of violence and confusion the moral and spiritual forces of mankind.
The following books have also been added to the University’s shelves.
History and Description: Johnson, Gerald White, The Secession of the Southern States; Sanders, Wiley Britton, Negro Child Welfare in North Carolina.
Economics: Warren, George Frederick, Prices.
Finance: Orchard, Mrs. Dorathy (Johnson), Money Lending in Great Britain; Winkler, John Kennedy, The First Billion.
Anthropology: Downing, Elliot Rowland, An Introduction to the Teachings of Science.
Biography: McGiffert, Jr., Arthur Cushman, Jonathan Edwards.
Fr. Dolan Addresses K.C.
In Springfield, Illinois
The Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, spoke at a banquet in Springfield, Illinois, Sunday, May 6, on “Catholic Action.” The banquet was given by the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus in honor of Bishop Griffin of the diocese of Springfield.
Springfield is Father Dolan’s home town. He was bom and educated there and it was in Springfield that he celebrated his first Mass.
Final Commencement Plans Announced;
Class Day Exercises To Be Held June 2
EDITOR
Gerald Doyle
Named editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Juggler for 1934-35. He succeeds Bryan J. Degnan.
Professor Hoyer Attends Convention at Pittsburgh
Professor Raymond Hoyer, Head of the Department of Boy Guidance, attended the 24th annual convention of the Boys’ Clubs of America, Inc., in Pittsburgh last week.
Before coming to Notre Dame in 1924, Mr. Hoyer was engaged in Boys’ Club work and a number of the Boy Guidance graduates have entered the same field.
At the closing banquet, Mr. Hoyer was presented- with a medal representing the completion of 25 years in the service of boyhood.
Jerry Cushing Is Elected Engineers’ Club President
Jerry Cushing was unanimously elected president of the Engineers Club on Thursday evening, May 3. The minor officers who were also elected are: Joe Lynch, vice-president; Al Vitter, secretary; Clarence Pickard, treasurer; and “Butch” Joyce, junior secretary.
Robert FitzSimon, past president of the Club, gave a retirement speech in which he said that he would like to see a larger Club next year and that the club should sponsor more trips.
Albert Saleh, general chairman of picnic to be held on Saturday, May 19, stated that the final plans have been made for the 149 members plus non-members who are going by bus to Lake Christiana, Michigan. The picnic is free for the members, but a small price has beet set for the nonmembers wishing to go. Notices will be posted as to the price for nonmembers and the time the bus will leave the campus.
This was the last meeting of the club and the picnic will bring the club’s activities to a close.
COMPLETE PROGRAM PREPARED
By Vincent A. Gorman
Stewart H. Osborn, general chairman of the Class Day Exercises, this week gave particulars in regard to the various ceremonies relating to the graduation program for the senior class. The general order of exercises will conform with those of Commencement last year.
On the morning of June 2, Class Day, the seniors will gather in Sacred Heart Church for their final visit. From here they will march in a body to Washington Hall to participate in the exercises. The annual address will be delivered by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. President James V. Moscow, College of Commerce, will then present a farewell speech to the members of his class.
The Class Day program, proper, consisting of the Valedictory by Charles N. Heckleman, the presentation by Thomas J. Stritch, Class Poet, and the address by Class Orator Hugh T. Fitzgerald will conclude with the bestowal of prizes, awards and medals. At present the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes has not reached a decision concerning the winners of the awards. This information will be released within several days.
In the evening of Class Day the alumni will fete the graduating class at the annual Alumni Banquet to be held in the Dining Hall. The day will be brought to a close with the stage production planned by the Commencement Committee and described elsewhere in this issue of The Scholastic.
At 9 a.m. Sunday, June 3, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Ci-cognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, will celebrate, in the gymnasium, the Baccalaureate Pontifical Mass, at which ceremony, the Baccalaureate sermon will be given by the Most Reverend John McNamara, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore.
Commencement will also be held in the gymnasium at 3 o’clock of the same day. The Honorable Frank Walker, Chairman of the Council on Emergency Relief will deliver the address, which will be followed by the awarding of degrees. To conclude the graduation exercises the Classs of 1934 will immediately proceed to the south-east corner of the quadrangle where President Moscow will raise the flag which he presented to the University on Washington’s Birthday in behalf of his class. This banner (Continued on Page 17)
May 11, 193 4
Seven
Final “Scrip” Issue Out on Next Friday
Editoi' Paul McManus announces today the Spring and final appearance of the campus literary publication, Scrip. The popular quarterly will be distributed Friday, May 18.
Paul F. McManus
Boivs next zveek.
Maurice Tombragel, whose stories have appeared in several issues, contributes an exceptionally well done story, “Race Track.” No doubt this will prove to be of particular interest in view of the recent campus excitement over the Kentucky Derby.
William B. Steis, also a regular contributor, in an essay not titled as yet, ingeniously solves the problems and worries of two youths who find themselves in love.
A sketch of the old South, entitled simply “Mrs. Thompson,” reveals Tom (The Week) Stritch in an entirely new role. This is his first contribution to the magazine.
Another member of the Scholastic staff, William A. Kennedy, writes an exciting adventure of a rail-road track walker. This is his first contribution also.	’
The popular, much-discussed Gates of Hell, a Catholic historical novel of the present day by Eric Van Kuhn-elt-Leddihn, will be reviewed in this issue.
Contributions are still being accepted and should be addressed to the Editor, Paul McManus, 101 Corby Hall. The dead line is Monday, May 14.
R. O. T. C.
According to Harold May, the Mil, itary Club will complete its survey this week. The enthusiasts will know definitely the latter part of next week whether the R. O. T. C. Unit will be organized on the campus in September.
E i g h t
X? 'about the camPus
The man who made Sosnik? Ball Chairman Russell (accent on the last syllable) Joseph Leonard is known to the campus in general as “Tammany Joe,” but to his very intimate friends as “Chub-lets.”
During his freshman year “Chub-lets” was the president of his class, an honored position which permitted him to attend all formats via the comp route. Incidentally he has yet
to miss a dance anywhere in four years.
“C h u b 1 e t s” again rose to new heights in leading the Moscow followers to victory in the elections of a year ago. Tonight when the seniors are attending the outstanding social event of the year, “Chublets” will don the new topper specially purchased for his debut as a chairman. The summer months will find it being used as a plant pot.
“Chubby” (now that we know him, we can call him this) has the distinction of being one of the youngest to graduate from his class. A cum laude degree will attest that the Subway (attention, Chicagoans) did not harm the lad. Starting out as a premed, he soon changed to Commerce.
Lowell, Mass., is the city our hero hails from. You know, another city north of Boston. He played fullback on the Keith Academy eleven and many Lowellites still think him to be the bone-crushing Notre Dame fullback. Golf, however is “Chublets” game and he does well by himself on Saturday and Sunday. He more than makes expenses.
The summer months, find “Chublets” seeking out his Daley Bread. In this connection let it be said that he was best man at a secret wedding last summer. Now he is a godfather. More Daley Bred. When the trees shed their leafy garments, Ruth comes into her own. The hair brushes Ruth sent last Christmas don’t go so well on shoes.
Walsh, 300 and 307, are “Chublets” rooms. Kiep, the "man with those fingers (sketching it again) and Jim Moscow are the ‘ suite mates. This would be a perfect “brain trust” if Kiep were only away.
Band Preparing For Open Air Concerts
In response to the many requests by students, it was announced Wednesday by Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa that the University Band would present its annual spring concerts from the porch of the Administration building at 6:30 on the evenings of May 16 and May 23. Both programs will be well-balanced with martial airs, classical numbers, and several modern selections.
Tomorrow the complete organization will travel to Benton Harbor to participate in the festivities of the final day of the annual Blossom Festival. The sixty men -will provide much of the music for the grand floral parade.
The Commencement Concert by the Band will be presented from the Administration Building at 6:45 p.m., June 1.
The invitation from the Century of Progress Committee to take part in the opening parade of the World’s Fair has been accepted and the Band will march in Chicago on May 26.
Wranglers Add Members
John Clark, John Kavanaugh, Leo Ley, John Locher, and Eugene Malloy were this week added to the membership body of the Wranglers, campus forensis group, after a series of comprehensive interviews of and talks from each prospective member. The final selection of these five men was made at the regular meeting last Tuesday night in the Law Building.
A few weeks ago twenty-two men were intei-viewed by the membership committee of Tom Proctor, Frank Hochreiter, John Hayes, and Justin Hannen. From this group twelve were selected to address the entire society.
Though no definite plans have been made, the society will probably close its active season with a banquet for the new members, who are now eligible to attend each session of the club. Clark and Kavanaugh are juniors, Malloy is a sophomore, Ley a freshman, and Locher a senior.
One Thanksgiving holiday “Chublets” played the piano for Art Kassel. Age (a 1914 bouncing baby boy) has given him tenderness and sobriety, and- now we no longer have a will-o-the-wisp musician but rather a junior Culbertson. Lowell newspapers have produced pictures of the great events in his life. Tonight will be another of those events; and when Harry Sosnik plays his “Lazy Rhapsody,” “Chublets” will strut his stuff in those tailor-made tails. (N.B. tails purchased before the Ball).
The Scholastic
!*
Glee Club to Give Mishawaka Concert
EDITOR
LaLonde Is Elected Chairman of S.A.C.
At the request of the management, Professor Joseph J. Casasanta will direct the University Glee Club through a short program of specially selected choral numbers at the Tivoli Theatre in Mishawaka on the evening of Sunday, May 20.
The immense popularity of this vocal organization with radio audiences was demonstrated this week when Prof. Casasanta received a special telegram from the National Broadcasting Company inviting him to present the club in a complete half-hour broadcast. It is possible that this program, if sanctioned by University authorities, will be offered through the company’s Chicago outlet, WENR, on Saturday afternoon, May 19.
In regard to the commencement concert by the Glee Club, it has been decided to hold it on Friday evening, June 1 at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. This will give the alumni and commencement guests an opportunity to enjoy the full benefits of the organization’s group and solo music.
Calumet Club Reorganizes;
Rocco Schiralli Named Head
Tuesday marked the reorganization of the Calumet Club of Notre Dame with 22 members present at the initial meeting. The club, which plans to become very active, elected officers to serve for a year, at this meeting.
Rocco Schiralli, football monogram winner, was elected President; James Glenn, Vice-president; Joe John, Treasurer; and John Kelly, Secretary. Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., is the Chaplain, and Tim Galvin, ’20, the Honorary President. Galvin is a prominent lawyer- in Hammond and has addressed the students here at various pep assemblages.
John Coogan Elected Head
Of N.D. Adirondack Club
John Coogan, junior, Badin Hall, of Saranac Lake, N. Y., was elected to the presidency of the Adirondack Club of Notre Dame at a meeting of that organization this week. He succeeds Harold B. Desnoyers, graduating senior, of Malone, N. Y.
Ralph Cardinal, sophomore, Morrissey, of Malone, N. Y., was named vice-president; William Burns, secretary, and Francis Donovan, secretary.
G. Albert Lawtox
Named editor of Scrip, the Notre Dame quarterly, for 1934-35. He succeeds Paul F. McManus.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The second and third degrees of the order were exemplified last Sunday afternoon at the South Bend council chambers. The initiation was conducted in a very fine manner, but evidently the beautiful weather and the attractions of the golf course and the tennis courts kept many members from attending. The reactions of the candidates to this degree was especially fine.
On last Monday the council was opened in the third section for the second time this year, and the candidates attended their first meeting as third degree members. The evening was well planned, and the new members came away greatly impressed with the conduct of the Knights of Columbus.
The men inducted in this last class were: Neil C. Barnett, Thomas W. Downing, Thomas J. Flynn, Albei-t H. Huter, Karl G. Hutter, Charles J. Kreuz, Daniel T. O’Brien, Lawrence J. Sibr, William J. Gomer, Jr., Charles J. Tomolak, Thomas A. Gamino, Joseph M. McAveney, Achilles H. Moorman, Jr., Vincent G. Mc-Aloon, Harold V. Marley, Robert W. Cavanaugh, James M. Foohey, John F. Egan, John A. Buckley, Alfred J. Hiegel, Francis W. Matthys, Donald Grillo, M.D., Henry E. Dendler, Leo F. Hendricks, John F. Carr, John T. Donovan, Francis E. Donoghue.
Golf Tournament
The K. of C. Golf Tournament for this year has been abandoned owing to lack of interest. Everything possible was done to stimulate that interest this year, and the writer obtained over 35 promises to enter. Only nine cards have been received to date.
Thomas K. LaLonde, junior- in the College of Commerce and president of the Junior Class, was unanimously elected chair-man of the Student Activities Conucil Tuesday evening, Maj* 8, in the basement of the Library. LaLonde succeeds to the post vacated by George Shields, head of the Council during the past year.
Other outgoing officers include William Casazza, who was secretary, and Eli Abraham, treasurer. Along with the- three office-holders, ten of the remaining sixteen S. A. C. members will complete their Council activities. They are: Joseph Condon, James Moscow, Clay Johnson, Charles Jahr, Ned Quinn, Jerry Farrell, John Breen, Charles Finkel, Francis Winter, and Jack Sweeney.
Saleh Elected Chairman of
Local A. I, E. E. Group
At the last regular meeting of the year of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in the Engineering Building last Tuesday night, Mitchell E. Saleh was elected chairman of the group for 1934-35. Saleh, who was vice-chairman of the branch this year, succeeds Bill Fromm. Other officers elected were Albert Vitter, secretary; Harold Gilday, treasurer; and Norman Conley, vice-chairman.
At the same meeting, A. I. E. E. honor keys were awarded to Ed Cunningham, Clarence Pickard, and Jack Whittaker, for the best student papers presented at meetings throughout the year.
Dr. J. A. Caparo, counselor of the organization and head of the department of Electrical engineering, spoke a few brief words of farewell as did Professor Edward Coomes. Alfred Hiegel delivered a short paper on the history of the American-Institute of Electrical Engineers, while Charlie Mueller presented what he termed the “Seniors’ Swan Song.”
Measer Elected
In a closely contested election, William Measer defeated Michael “Kay” Sheedy for the presidency of the Buffalo ciub. The elections were held Monday evening in the Brownson Recreation'Room.
The other successful candidates were: Edward Kumrow, Vice-president; Joseph Battaglia and John Conners, Secretary and Treasurer, respectively.
At this meeting Franklyn Hochreiter was appointed chairman for the 1934 Christmas Ball.
The club will meet soon to make plans for the summer party.
May 11, 19 3 4
Nine
Full House Applauds Two Piano Recital
College Parade By James T. Fitzpatrick
Polish Diplomat Is Welcomed To N.D.
, 1
A recital of piano music by modem composers presented in Washington Hall Monday evening by Mr. John F. Sharpe, ’34, assisted by Mr. Hugo Melchione, ’37, was enjoyed by an appreciative audience of both stu-
John F. Sharpe
Thrills capacity audience.
dents and townspeople. Featuring Mr. Sharpe’s graduation recital was his two-piano work with Mr. Melchione as they moved through the very modern “Danse Macabre,” by C a m i 11 e Saint-Saens, Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” and Ravel’s “Bolero.” The high spot of the concert was Mr. Sharpe’s rendition of Tschaikovsky’s Concerto in B-flat minor, the orchestra parts for which were given on a second piano by Mr. Melchione.
This composition was given its first presentation in Boston by von Bulow, who enthusiastically adopted it after it had been rejected by Nicholas Rubinstein as too awkward to play.
“Rhapsody in Blue,” started the cycle of modern symphonic compositions using jazz syncopation and idioms; of it Osgood wrote that it was the first work that allowed jazz to stick its head outside the cabaret door. The atmosphere of “Bolero,” with its primitive origins, was enhanced by the use of drums, symbols, and blood-red lighting effects. “Danse Negre,” an impressionistic piece of work; “Gay But Wistful” is an attempt to embody the gaity characteristic of London with witsfulness; and Etude in G-sharp minor shows traces of Oriental, Russian, and the new German influences, and combines some of the craftsmanship of expression of Liszt and Chopin. The theme of “Danse Macabre” is an interesting one: The hour of midnight sees Death tune his fiddle, the wind howls, spectres and skeletons assemble and leap to the waltz rhythm. Dies Irae, the old chant of mortality, is introduced in new form; the cock crows; and the ghostly band scuttles back to their graves.
To finish every course offered at the University of Minnesota, working at the rate of 17 credits per quarter, the average man would spend 503 years.—Again.
Kenneth Johnson, a student at the University of California who aspires to be a zoo director, has installed cages of snakes in his room at Berkeley. The collection includes an indigo snake, two king snakes, a small ■ boa constrictor, a moccasin snake, and a pair of chicken snakes, to say nothing of a Gila monster and a black widow spider, which Johnson has christened Eliza. He once had seven rattlesnakes but they all perished.—Oregon State Barometer.
The Daily Bruin and the California Daily, official organs of the two branches of the University of California, are at loggerheads over the issue of compulsory military training. While the latter, along with other papers in various sections of the country, has been making a drive for optional training or complete abolition of the unit, the Bruin has been unique in its defense of the present R.O.T.C. system. Both papers declare that they represent majority opinion on their respective campi, but it seems hardly logical that Californians around San Francisco should be pacifists, while those in Los Angeles maintain a staunch militaristic front. The Oklahoma Daily, in commenting, hints that administrative pressure is being brought ot bear on the Bruin—no pun intended.—Prince-tonian.
Approximately one-third of all students attending Columbia University are receiving scholarships to aid them in financing their education.— Johns Hopkins News-Letter.
Censorship of The Daily Cardinal and a purging of dangerous, “radical,” elements from the university administration and faculty at the University of Wisconsin has been demanded by the alumni association of that school. The group seeks the removal of all persons of liberal leanings on the staff of the Cardinal and would like a paper handled by a “backwoods mentality.” — Syracuse Daily Orange.
And they tell us that there’s a depression; more than 40 Northwestern students employed by the CWA have as yet failed to call for their monthly pay checks.—Duke Chronicle
Among others to greet the arrival by airplane of Joseph Moscicki, first secretary of the Polish embassy in Washington, D. C., and son of the president of Poland, at the Bendix airport in South Bend, Tuesday, was a welcoming committee from the Charles Phillips Cracow Club, Notre Dame’s Polish organization. Accompanying Mr. Moscicki from Chicago were his wife, Mrs. Sophia Moscicki, Dr. Edward T. Kulikowski, of the Polish consulate, and his sister, Mrs. Maria Higgersberger.
After lunching at the home of Vincent Bendix in South Bend, Mr. Moscicki and his party were conveyed by automobile to the Notre Dame campus. Here they were entertained with a program, arranged by Arthur Kor-zeneski, president of the Charles Phillips Cracow Club. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, greeted Mr. Moscicki on behalf of the University, while Korzeneski extended a similar welcome on behalf of the club.
In his welcoming speech, Korzeneski explained that it was the endeavor of the Charles Phillips Cracow Club to understand Poland, her culture and traditions. The club head stated that a better' understanding of these could be secured as a result of the club’s acquaintance with such men as Mr. Moscicki himself and other men prominent in Polish activities.
After expressing his gratitude for such a warm welcome, Mr. Moscicki was then shown about the campus.
\
Bulletin Announces Summer
Session in Boy Training
A special University bulletin, announcing the tenth annual Summer Session in Boy Leadership Training, has been issued. The 1934 session will run from July 6 to 14, inclusive. It will be open to Catholic men 18 years of age and over. Prof. Ray Hoyer, Head of the Department of Boy Guidance, will again serve as Director.
Other members of the regular University faculty who will serve on the staff, are Rev. Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., who will lead the discussions on religious activities for boys; and Prof. Maurice ,L. Pettit, who will speak on the problems of probation. Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., former Head of the Department of Physical Education, and at present Director of the Catholic Youth Bureau of the National Catholic Welfare Council, Washington, will also appear on the program.

Ten
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Topple Ohio State for First Win
Trackmen Face Michigan State Here Tomorrow; Seek First Win
Shaking loose from the jinx that pursued them for seven successive games, Notre Dame, aided by the gilt edge pitching of Jim Leonard, downed Ohio State last Saturday by a score of 5-3. It was sweet revenge for the Irish over the Buckeyes who previously defeated Notre Dame in the season’s opener, 7-5.
Except for a wobbly start in the first inning when Ohio State scored two runs, Leonard hurled air tight ball and was the master of his Ohio opponents at all times.
Notre Dame took the lead in the first inning when Cunha singled with one out and then scored on Norb Rascher’s double. The Buckeyes came back strongly to top the Irish one better by scoring two runs in their half of the first. Prosenjack singled, Lewis tripled and scored on Clow-son’s outfield fly.
Leonard aided his own cause by singling to start the fourth inning rally which placed Notre Dame on top of a 3-2 score. Underkofler advanced Leonard to third by his one base blow to right field. Cunha came through with his second hit of the game, a slashing double which scored both men.
The Irish scored once more in the eighth and ninth innings. The Buckeyes, after being kept in check from the first inning, scored their final run in the eighth when Clowson counted after being advanced on safeties by Vides and Moser. Big Jim of the Irish squelched the rally effectively and set down Ohio State 1-2-3 in the ninth to give Notre Dame its first triumph of the season.
Notre Dame (5)________ Ab R H O A
Kane,2b 5 0 114
Cunha,If 5 12 2 0
Mettler,ss 5 113 5
Raseh’r.rf 4 0 110
Dunn,lb 4 1 0 13 0
Beach.cf 3 0 0 1 0
Reag’n,3b 4 0 113
Und’fler.c 4 115 0
Leonard.p 3 110 1
_________Ohio State (3) Ab R H O A Pr’s’n’k.rf 4 113 0 Lewis,3b 4 112 1 Clows’n,2b 2 113 2 M’Afee.lb	4	0	0 8	0
Vides,cf	4	0	2 2	0
Moser,c	4	0	2 4	1
Dolch.lf	4	0	13	0
Kinsr.ss	4	0	0 2	4
Will’ms.p	3	0	10	0
33 3 9 27. 8
37 5 8 27 17
Errors—Mettler. Lewis (2), McAfee. King. Two Base Hits—Rascher, Cunha. Three base hit—Lewis. Sacrifice—Mettler, Beach. Stolen bases—Mettler. Double Plays—Mettler to Dunn. Struck out by—Leonard (5), Williams (2). Wild Pitch—Leonard.	.
Sports Staff Notice
All members of The Scholastic’s sport staff are requested to attend a meeting of that staff to be held in Room 119 Alumni Hall this evening, Friday, May 11, 6:30 p.m.
Sport Week ---
All times given are Central Standard Friday, May 11
Tennis—Detroit vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., University Courts.
Saturday, May 12
Baseball—Indiana vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Golf—Notre Dame, vs. Northwestern, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., University Golf Course.
Tennis—Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 2:00 p.m., East Lansing, Michigan.
Track—Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 1:30 p.m., Cartier Field.
Tuesday, May 15
Baseball—Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, 3:00 p.m., Evanston, Illinois.
Friday, May 18
Baseball—Iowa vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Saturday, May 19
Baseball—Iowa vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Golf—Illinois vs. Notre Dame, 8:00 a.m. and 12:30 p.m., Urbana, Illinois.
Tennis—Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 2:00 p.m., University Courts.
Track—Notre Dame vs. Michigan
Track—Pittsburgh vs Notre Dame, 12:00, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Tuesday, May 22
Baseball—Notre Dame vs. Chicago, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Thursday, May 24
Baseball—Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Cartier Field.
Golf—'Indiana vs. Notre Dame, 9:00 a.m., and 1:30 p.m., University Golf Course.
Friday, May 25
Golf—Indiana State Meet at Notre Dame, University Golf Course.
Tennis—Chicago vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Chicago, Illinois.
Saturday, May 26
Golf — Indiana State Meet at Notre Dame, University Golf Course.
Track — Indiana State Meet at Purdue, Lafayette, Indiana.
MEET WILL START AT 1:30
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame’s hard luck track team will continue its outdoor campaign tomorrow, acting as host to the powerful Michigan State crew. The Spartans, victors in the C.I.C. indoor carnival, should take the Irish into camp.
Headed by Tom Ottey, one of the country’s sensations at the middle distances, the Lansing runners should give Coach Nicholson plenty grounds for grief. This well-balanced squad is probably one of the outstanding in the mid-west.
Those who witnessed the indoor C.I.C. meet will remember what Alva Jackson, elongated negro, did to the local trackmen. His twelve points, scored in the hurdles and high jump, stand as the feature of that affair. Tomorrow he will find Mike Layden, who was on the shelf during the indoor season, on -tap to question his superiority. Jackson won both hurdle races in the big indoor tussle but Layden’s speed may cut him down. Jackson occasionally takes a crack at the sprints, just to make sure he has had his day’s quota of exercise.
Teamed with Ottey at the middle distances, are Pongrace, Hurd, and Wangen. -This trio is as consistent a group as any that ever drew breath on the cinder paths. In the quarter mile, the Spartans are represented by a host of average men who will press the Nickmen all the way.
On May 19 the Irish will see action in Pittsburgh where they meet the Panthers. Last spring Pitt fell, 71 to 55, on Cartier Field. They, too, have a number of consistent performers. Pelucha, the diminutive vaulter, tied Howard of Notre Dame in the C.I.C. meet at 12 feet, nine inches. Fleming, dashman, is capable of fast footwork. In the shot put, Bona-vita appears to be the man for Elser and Sullivan to outdistance. His work was good enough for a second in the indoor festival here.
The Panther one mile relay quartet of Keller, Kiger, Groat, and Connelly established a new conference record in the C.I.C. meet when it galloped around the eight lap course in 3:24.2. With the Irish progressing rapidly, the Panthers will find themselves faced with a busy afternoon.
May 11, 1934
Eleven
Northwestern And Illinois Are Tall Barriers In Golfers Path
Ohio State Outpoints Irish Trackmen, 70-61
NORTHWESTERN STRONG
The Irish golf team, with four straight victories in the current campaign already in their record book, will seek victory number five against Northwestern on the William J. Burke Course tomorrow. Next Saturday the Irish team will again take to the road and journey to Champaign to meet the strong Illinois golfers.
Last year the Irish handed the Wildcats a 11% to 6% defeat in a match played over the rain soaked Kildeer Course at Evanston. The Evanston golfers held the Irish fairly even in the individual play but slipped up in the best ball matches to give Captain Montedonico’s men the margin of victory.
Hal Reid is number one man on the Northwestern team. Reid is one of the best intercollegiate golfers in the Midwest and should give Fehlig and company plenty of trouble. Flynn and McDonald are two other Northwestern reliables who may score if the Irish are not at the top of their game.
Baker Captains Illini
Northwestern is one of the strongest teams in the Big Ten this year. Last Saturday, playing outside the Conference, they handed Michigan State a decisive defeat.
This year’s Illinois team is rather inexperienced and all the dope favors the Irish to repeat the 13% to 4% victory they scored over the Illini last year.
Bob Baker, captain of the current Illinois team, accounted fdr three of his teams four points in that match when he shot a steady 76 to hand Vince Fehlig a 3 to 0 defeat. In his match with the present captain, Baker shot four successive threes on the 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th holes of the William J. Burke course.
The only other returning letterman is Lyle Hoffman. In last year’s match Hoffman shot a well played 77 but this was not good enough to save him from a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Johnny Banks who might have taken . the course record that day had he not had some tough luck on the 16th.
Elton Hill, Roger O’Neal, Carl Ay-delotte and Jack Miller, all experienced men, compose the remainder of the Illinois squad.
Captain Fehlig, Johnny Montedon-ico, Bill Veeneman, Johnny Banks, Bill Day and Pat Malloy will shoot for the Irish in the Northwestern match. The squad may be altered for the Illinois match if the play of the Irish falters against the Wildcats. '
Interhall
By James M. McMullen
The boys out there struggling for hall gloiy in hardball competition were again favored by old man weather, and ran through four more well-played league games Sunday. The softballers, on the other hand, were dependent on the spirit shown in their games scheduled for Thursday, for mere existence.
The Dillon-Lyons meeting heads the list with a perfect top notch engagement, the freshman winning out, 3-2. Ridell, the winner, and Tuner, the Lyons hall slabman, had it all their own way, and aside from two long triples by Krause and Gillespie, little harm was done with the stick. The latter blow was the deciding factor in Dillon’s seven inning victory.
The two halls under the Dome met and settled the reigning dispute of their baseball season by a 9-2 Carroll victory. Fromhart, Peters, and Zenner with their big bats were responsible, Wally getting three for three. Moreau and Sostello, found the Brownson guns silent during their time on the mound for Carroll.
Morrissed defeated Corby 5-4. Huber for Morrissey collected a single, double, and triple to lead in effectiveness at the bat. McKiernan blasted a mighty homer for Corby in the second with the bags absolutely barren. Wertz appeared as the winning pitcher, Moynahan got credit for the loss.
In the final game St. Edward’s displayed plenty of pinch batting in tripping Badin, 7-5. O’Neil made it a big day with a homer and a double to his credit. Both Hawley, twirling, for the winners and Compa, the losing pitcher were fairly effective on the mound, errors contributing the markers to a great extent for both clubs.
The verdict on the life or death of the badly battered softball leagues will be handed down this week. Five games are again carded for Sabbath competition in the hardball circuits.
Frosh Golfers Beat Reserves
Notre Dame’s freshman golf team experienced its first taste of competition last Sunday when it engaged and defeated the Reserve crew on the University course, 10 to 8. Lou Fehlig was the sensation of the day with a card of 34-39 for a 73.
The members of each team played in foursomes and doubles and singles. Results were tabulated simultaneously this way.
Coach John P. Nicholson’s Irish trackmen suffered an annoying defeat last Saturday at the hands of Ohio State, 71 to 60. The Nickmen held up well in the field events, their acknowledged weak spot, but fell in the mile and two mile, mainly because the contestants in these races have been handicapped by injuries.
It was more than just another track meet. Two incidents that took place during the fray could be cata logued with Ripley’s “Believe It Or Not.” The first unusual occurence involved Carl Link and Cook, the lattei' a Buckeye hurdler.
Link tripped over the last hurdle and sprawled across the track. Before Carl met the cinders he was running a good second to Mike Layden. As the Irish hurdler toppled, Fagan sped by, but Cook, running fourth for Ohio State, drew up and refused to finish until Link picked himself up and cantered across the finish line. An excellent demonstration of sportsmanship that very seldom invades the cinder paths.
Records Bettered
The second “freak” was brought about by the one mile relay race. The Buckeye quartet, previously beaten by Notre Dame, bettered the existing Ohio record in this race, being clocked in 3:17.1. The Irish quartet of Rubly, Ducassa, Bowdren, and Bernard, was not awarded points for finishing second but their feat cannot be overlooked. Despite their failure to make an entry in the scoring column, the local crew ran the distance faster than any Notre Dame one mile team has ever done. The watches read, 3:17.5.
The grief brought on by the one mile and two mile jaunts can be traced to injuries of Captain Joe Young and Leo McFarlane. Young finished out of the scoring in the shorter run because his injury of a month ago gave him no end of trouble. Moran, running the distance in 4:30, garnered a third for the Irish.
Leo McFarlane’s bothersome "arch forced him to be content with a second in the 16 furlong affair. Mac was blanketed by Price, who strolled in first, and Huffman, who wound up third.
Don Elser continued to improve with the shot. His best effort, 48 feet, 3% inches, was good enough to defeat the Big Ten title holder, George Neal, and to establish a new Notre Dame mark. Sullivan also scored for the Nickmen with a third.
Mike Layden was high scorer for the afternoon. This speedster hung up a first in both the high and low (Continued on Page 15)
Twelve
The Scholastic
Irish Golfers Beat Maroons for 3d Win
Six Western Conference Clubs
To Oppose Irish Baseball Team
Olympia Fields No. 4 may be the toughest the Notre Dame golfers have ever negotiated, but this fact did not prevent them from bagging their third victory of the season Monday. The Chicago Maroons felt the sting of the local teemen, 15 to 3.
It was the eleventh consecutive win for Notre Dame golf and brought the all-time record to 26 wins in 27 matches.
Win Day made a remarkable showing in both his singles and doubles-match. In the former he defeated Howe, five and four, three to nothing. To top this off Win bagged a par 70 in medal figures. In his doubles match, in which he has teamed with Herman Green, against Baker* and Howe, Day shot a 73, giving him a total medal tally of 143. The Irish pair won this match, four and three.
Veeneman Defeats Young
The surprise of the afternoon occurred when Johnny Banks was defeated by Moremer, two and one. Toots was anything but right as can be attested by his medal score of 79.
Bill Veeneman had little difficulty in sinking Young, his Chicago opponent. Bill’s par 3 on the 13th hole gave him the match six and five. In the course of the match Veeneman sunk two birdies and nine pars to give him a total of 75 strokes for the eighteen.
Captain Vince Fehlig was forced to wait until the eighteenth hole to win his match, one up. Vince went around in 77. Baker, his Chicago opponent, won one nine from him to bring the match score to 2 to 1 for Fehlig.
In the remaining doubles match Banks and Malloy won a hard earned victory from Young and Moremer. The Irish pair was out, two up but the opposition got tough on the final round and Johnny Banks was forced to chalk up a birdie on sixteen to cinch the win, three and two, 3 to 0.
The results of the Wisconsin match played at Madison yesterday will appear in the next issue of The Scholastic. The squad included Fehlig, Montedonico, Banks, Veeneman, Day, and Green.
The summaries:
Day 70, Notre Dame; defeated Howe 77, Chicago; 3 to 0.
Fehlig 77, Notre Dame; defeated Baker 78, Chicago; 2 to 1.
Moremer 77, Chicago; defeated Banks 79, Notre Dame; 2 to 1.
Veeneman 75, Notre Dame; defeated Young,83, Chicago ; 3 to 0.
Day 73, and Green 74, Notre Dame; defeated Young 76, and Moremer 81, Chicago, 3 to 0.
May 11, 1 9 3 i
Hall Golf - - -
The Interhall golf tournament finally got under way last Sunday after a few weeks delay. Vince Fehlig has selected, from the cards turned in last week, the 64 lowest scores. Thirty-two contestants have been placed in the upper bracket and 32 in the lower bracket.	-
All first flight matches must be completed by Thursday, May 10. The second round will be completed by May 14. The quarter-finals will then be run off on Thursday, May 17, and the semi-finals on Saturday, May 19. The final round will be on Sunday. The final round will be 36 holes, while the other matches will be but 18. The pairings are as follows:
Marine (O.C.) vs. Krafthefer (A.). Novak (St. Ed’s.) vs. Geddes (D.). Nau (Fr.) vs. Moynahan (A.). Kelley (Morr.) vs. Leonard (W.). Krenz (How.) vs. Degnan (So.). Schafder (Morr.) vs. Davey (Br.). Brugger (W.) vs. Banas (So). Sanders (W.) vs. Pierce (Cor.). Dagle (Cor.) vs. Kiep (W.). Purdy (Cor.) vs. Crawford (W.). Byrne (D.) vs-. T. Dunn (Morr.). Gohmann (Morr.) vs. Rainey (A.) MeMonagle (Morr.) vs Gleason (W.). Lesselyoung (D.) vs. Guimont (A.). Foley (Fr.) vs. Kehoe (Br.).
Vaughan (Cor.) vs. Marback (D.) Baldwin (D.) vs. Meyer (Br.).
Sloan (Br.) vs. Gillespie <Sr.) Britton (Morr.) vs-. Claneey (D.) Manning (D.) vs. Wall (Cr.) Walker (D.) vs. Weber (L.) Manoski (Sr.) vs. Walsh (Fr.) Quinn (Morr.) vs. Hart (D.) Hoban (W.) vs Lange (St. Ed's.) McCarthy (Cr.) vs. Byrne (A.) Combs (Fr.) vs-. Cloudan (Cor.) Hastings (D.) vs. Deichman (Morr.) Wilson (Fr.) vs. Duffy (L.) Dunn (St. .Ed's.) vs. Bows (Fr.). Tourek (How.) vs. Davis (D.) McLaughlin (St. Ed’s-.) vs. Wilsson (D.) Kizeli (Cr.) vs. Fehlig (D.)
Fr. Holderith Defeats
Fr. Riter in Faculty Golf
One first round match in the Faculty golf tournament has been run off to date. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., defeating Rev. R. Riter, C.S.C. All of the first round matches must be played by Saturday, May 12 and . the results posted in the club-house.
Father Holderith, Rev. J. Reynolds, C.S.C., and Elmer F. Layden have been installed as the favorites in this tournament because of their low scores in the qualifying round.
PLAY FIVE GAMES HERE
By Cy Stroker
Encouraged by their recent win over Ohio State, which brought to an end a long series of seven defeats, the Notre Dame baseball nine optimistically faces six encounters with Big Ten teams during the next two weeks. Five of the games will be played on Cartier field—Indiana, Chicago, Purdue, and two with Iowa. The team will play Northwestern at Chicago Tuesday.
The game with Indiana here tomorrow will be the first time that the Irish have faced the Hoosiers this season. Winning and losing one game to Ohio State and tying Purdue 8-8 in a ten-inning game in their first few encounters of the season, the team from Bloomington shows promise of being one of the greatest threats in the Big Ten Conference. With three expert twirlers on the mound, Kehrt, Wilshire, and Roberts, the Crimson hopes to discourage any hard hitting on the part of Notre Dame, which might overshadow Indiana’s rather mediocre ability with the stick.
Meet Northwestern Tuesday
Tuesday’s game with Northwestern will give the Irish an opportunity to even the score against the Evanston nine after the 14-13 defeat suffered here a few weeks ago. It will be remembered that it was in this game that Notre Dame staged one of their ninth inning rallies which, however, was insufficient to balance Northwestern’s consistent run - making. Northwestern has always given Notre Dame baseball teams a battle, splitting even with the Irish in two games last year. So far this season Northwestern has won two Big Ten games and lost one.
May 18 the University of Iowa brings a strong team here from Ames to try to gain supremacy over the Irish. Iowa was another of the teams that split even with Notre Dame last year and they fully intend to be two up on the Irish after the double header this week. They will certainly give Kline’s men a run for their money with the hard slugging aggregation they have this year. Iowa has lost but one of their ten games this season. Murphy, Hawkeye left fielder, is the team’s chief scoring threat. He has made several home runs so far this year.
The games with Chicago and Purdue, to be played here May 22 and 24, will give the local nine a chance (Continued on Page 14)
Thirteen
Badgers Hand Irish
Seventh Defeat; 6-4
Introducing,..
Tennis Team Eyes 3d Win in Detroit Match
A Wisconsin rally in the last half of the eighth inning in which the Badgers netted two runs swept Notre Dame to its seventh defeat this season, 6 to 4. Mettler and Cunha led the attack at Madison on May 3, with five hits between them.
Wisconsin scored a run in the third and three in the fifth inning to take a commanding lead. The Irish scored first in the sixth chapter when Cunha singled and eventually scored on Dunn’s one base blow.
In the eighth, Cunha again started the rally that tied the count, 4 to 4. He doubled to left and scored on Mettler’s single. Rascher beat out an infield roller. Dunn drove Mettler home with a single and Rascher counted on a ■wild pitch.
The box score:
Wisconsin (6)
Notre Dame (4)
Ab R H O A Kane,2h	5	0	0	1	3
Cunha.lf	4	12	0	1
Mettler,ss	4	2	3	1	3
Rasch’r.rf	4	12	2	0
Dunn.lb	3	0	2 11	0
Beach,cf 3 0 110 OCon’r.cf	1	0	0	0	0
Regan,3b 4 0 12 8 O’Neil.c	1	0	0	3	1
H’sking.p	3	0	0	0	1
U’kofler.c	3	0	0	3	0
xP’misani	1	0	0	0	0
Ab R H O A Schil’g,3b 0 0 0 1 1 Gerlach,cf 2 0 0 0 1 Wegn’r.ef 2 110 0 N’stron.ss 4 0 0 6 6 Vaicek,rf 4 0 10 0 Capicek.lf 3 10 4 0 Heyer,2b 4 12 11 Ross.c 3 110 1 Poser.p 2 112 4 WiH’ms.p 1 0 0 0 1 Klink,3b 2 1111 D’mark,If 10 0 10
Totals 36 4 11 24 17 Totals 32 6 9 27 17
x Palmisani batted for Huisking in ninth.
Errors—O’Neil. Schilling. Runs batted in— Nordstrom Church 2, Vaicek 2, Dunn 2. Mettler. Two-base hits — Beach. Cunha. Church. Hits oS: Poser, 11 in 7 1-3 in. Double Plays— Poser to Nordstron to Church. Rascher to O’Neil to Regan to Mettler to Regan. Struck out—by Williams 2, Huisking 5. Base on Balls-—off Huisking 3. Hit by pitcher—by Huisking 1, by Poser 1. Wild pitch—Williams. Winning Pittcher—Williams. Left on bases— Notre Dame 4, Wisconsin 6.
BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 13)
to even the score with these Big Ten top-notchers. Both teams have defeated the Irish by close scores in previous encounters, Chicago by 14-12 and Purdue by 14-13 and 9-6. Errors on the part of Notre Dame were largely responsible for these let-downs, but playing on their own diamond and the experience the team has had during the intervening time may help the Klinemen to take these clubs into camp in the coming games.
Neither Chicago nor Purdue possess exceptional talent as far as batting is concerned, but have gotten men on first mostly by the mediocre pitching of Notre Dame’s hurlers. With the added confidence which the win over the Buckeyes has given them, the Irish nine may make a successful season of it, especially if the errors which have been so disastrous in the first games of the season are made to disappear.
Fourteen
Bill Powell, one of Coach Jake Kline’s best infielders, first broke into the Irish lineup in the eleventh inning of the Chicago game in 1932. The Maroons had scored in their half of the inning to break up a tie and shoot into a 6 to 5 lead. Paul Kane opened
Bill Powell
He singled off Henshaw.
up Notre Dame’s half with a single, went to second on a sacrifice, and stole third while the next battel' was striking out. With two men out and the tying run on third base, Coach Keogan then sent Powell into his first intercollegiate game to pinch hit. Henshaw, one of the Midwest’s best college pitchers, was hurling for Chicago. Powell missed two of Henshaw’s fast balls before he lined the third, one into left field for a clean single which drove Kane across the plate with the tying run. The game was called at the end of the inning because of darkness.
A Consistent Hitter
Bill has been hitting well both in pinches and out of them ever since. In his sophomore yeai- he led the team in batting with his season average of .382. Last year he slipped a bit but managed to finish the season with the very respectable figure of .308. He is hitting better than ever this year, and in the ten games the Klinemen have played he has ran up a .450 average.
Powell first broke in as regular in last year’s Chicago game and celebrated his debut by driving out two hits in three trips to the plate, stealing two bases and playing errorless ball in the field.
Bill prepped at Manual Training High School in Broklyn. He played three years of baseball and football at Manual and was captain of baseball in his senior year. In 1929 the New York Mirror awarded Bill its (Continued on Page 16)
The Notre Dame netmen will clash with the tennis squad of the University of Detroit this afternoon on the University courts.
The Irish will be seeking their third victory of the season. Their present record stands at two wins and a like number of losses. Albion and Armour Tech were the teams to taste defeat at the hands of the Irish, while Northwestern and Western State were the tartars to mar the Irish record.
On Saturday the Irish racquet wielders will journey to East Lansing to clash with the formidable Michigan State squad in the first of the home and home matches. The return engagement will be played here May 19.
The victory over Albion last week has brightened the Irish hopes for victory ovei’ the Titan and State teams.
The Irish players, particularly Captain O’Hanlon, are rapidly rounding into form and should continue in the winning column. '
Captain O’Hanlon, Frank Weldon, Joe Waldron, Dick Kelly, George Cannon, and Ed Seward will in all probability face Detroit and Michigan State.


Notre Dame Tennis Team Defeats Albion in 2nd Win
The Irish netmen emerged victorious from their court battle -with the visitors from Albion last Saturday in a close meet which featured a last match battle. The score had been tied at three all in matches, the Irish having won three of the five singles and the first of the doubles matches, the outcome of the meet depending on the last meet.
It seemed as the visitors were to go home the victors winning the first set, 6-4, but the Notre Dame netters O’Hanlon and Kelly, came back strong and took the next two sets straight 6-1, 6-4, winning the match and meet.
The victories for the Irish in the singles were in straight sets, Captain O’Hanlon, Waldron, and Weldon defeating Storey, Fisher, and Kingsley respectively.
Capt. O’Hanlon (ND) defeated Storey (A), 6-1, 6-4.
Large (A), defeated -Kelly (ND), 6-1, 6-0.
Prettyman (A), defeated Cannon (ND), 6-2, 8-6.
Waldron (ND) defeated Fisher (A), 6-3, 6-0.
Weldon (ND), defeated Kingsley (A), 6-2, 6-2.
Doubles: Fisher and Prettyman (A), defeated Waldron and Weldon (ND), 6-3, 6-2 : O’Hanlon and Kelly (ND) defeated Story and Large (A), 4-6, 6-1, 6-4.
The Sc holastic
i
OHIO STATE MEET
(Continued from Page 12)
hurdles. In the 220 affair the Irish made a clean sweep, thanks to Mr. Cook. In the high sticks Cook took second and Fagan third.
Gilfoil scored in both dashes. The dapper southerner scored a second in the century and a third in the one furlong sprint. Other point getters included Edwards, who tied for first in the pole vault at 12 feet; Walsh, who finished second in the javelin; Vince Murphy, who set a new Ohio record in the high jump with a graceful leap of 6 feet, 5% inches; Roberts, who scored a second in the half mile; George Meagher, who won the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet, 3% inches, and Frawley, who placed second in the same event.
The summaries:
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (ND) ; Neal (OS), second; Sullivan (ND), thh-d. Distance 48 ft., 3% in.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Price (OS) ; McFaralane (ND), second; Huffman (OS), third. Time, 9:48.4.
220 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) ; Fagan (ND), second; Link (ND), third. Time, :24.9.
JAVELIN —Won by Blaek (OS) ; Walsh (ND), second; Cramer (OS), third. Distance, 155.2 ft.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) : Baucher (OS) and Kowal (OS), tied for second. Height, 6 ft., 5% in.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Smith (OS) : Roberts (ND), second; Moore (OS), third. Time. 1:57.7.
120 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden (ND) ; Cook (OS), second; Fagan (ND), third. Time, :15.2.
100 YARD DASH—Won by Stapf (OS) : Gilfoil (ND), second; Willey (OS), third. Time. :10.1.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Moore (OS) ; Renda (OS), second; Moran (ND), third. Time. 4:27.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (ND) : Frawley (ND), second; Peterson (OS), third. Distance, 22 ft.. 3:}1 in.
220 YARD DASH—Won by Madison (OS) : Willey (OS), second; Gilfoil (ND), third. Time, :22.1.
POLE VAULT—Edwards (ND) and Sites (OS) tied for first; Peterson (OS), third. Height, 12 ft.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Ohio State (Willey, Smith, Bloor. Arnold) ; Notre Dame, second. Time, 3:17.1.
Alumni Hall Team Wins Interhall Rifle Shoot
The rifle club’s interhall shooting match came to a close last Thursday when Alumni defeated Dillon in a shoot-off necessitated by a tie between the. two halls. The tie was created by McGrath of Alumni and Minarick of Dillon, both of whom shot possible 100s, and May of Alumni and Leiser of Dillon, both of whom shot possible 99s;
Appropriate medals have been ordered for each of the members of the winning teams.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John D. Carbine
HURDLERS
The track team, returning from the Ohio State meet, brought a story of unusual sportsmanship on the part of a Buckeye hurdler. Mike Layden, Jimmy Fagan, and Carl Link were running one, two, and three in the low hurdles when Link tripped over his last number and fell flat. Instead of rushing past the fallen Link, Cook, of Ohio State, running fourth, stopped dead in his tracks and allowed Link to scramble to his feet and finish in third position.
It’s bits of sportsmanship like this which raise intercollegiate sport up to a plane high above professional athletics. It’s also little things like this which cement a friendly rivalry between institutions. Ohio State is a comparative newcomer to Irish schedules, but if this is any indication of Buckeye sportsmanship, the relations promise to be long and pleasant.
The incident did, however, have a peculiar twist to it. Coach Nicholson of the Irish, a great hurdler in his day, tripped over his last hurdle while leading the field in the 1912 Olympics and fell flat on his face in front of the royal box. On that day no one waited for Nick to get up. Said the Irish coach about the Cook-Link incident, “Cook showed fine sportsmanship in stopping but that’s not part of the game. If they had waited for me in 1912, I would have been an Olympic champion.” Nick kicked the dirt. “The hurdles are there to jump over, and, if you don’t do it, you have no right to place,” he said.
•
RELAYS
The Irish one mile relay team broke all Notre Dame records Friday night when they ran the mile in 3:17.5. The Buckeye quartet did 3:17.1 to nose out Nick’s men. It’s just another example of the competition reaching top form just when the Irish spikemen get going.
Comparisons bring out the speed of the Irish mile. The local gymnasium record is 3:24.6. The Nickmen won the mile relay in the dual meet with the Ohio State here this winter in the time of 3:24.8. The best last year’s mile team could do was to hovei* about the 3:25 mark and at that they won a majority of their starts.
•
GOLF CROWDS
Sunday’s balmy weather brought some three hundred and eleven golfers of varying ability to the William J. Burke Course. This was the second largest crowd to play over the links in a single day.
May 11, 1934
Fifteen
On Down The Line
1
]
i 1 j 1 i
i < i i c
By Nick Connor
That old mystic number “13” may not mean anything, but consider* this. In 1926 and 1929, NOTRE DAME scored 13 points to So. Cal’s 12 to win both times. In 1927, Notre Dame won 7 to 6, and these add up to 13. In 1928 U.S.C. won 27 to 14 a difference of 13 points. . • . Do you know that there were some 2,000,000 bricks used in the construction of the stadium? And if they were laid end to end they would stretch from the Administration Building to the CLEVELAND waterfront, a distance of 300 miles? . . . Another equine failure was KING THOMAS who was purchased as a yearling for $39,500, and didn’t win a race until he was five years old. . . . Both JACK COFFEY of Fordham University and BILL McCARTHY of New York University have started their 13th seasons as baseball coaches at those institutions. . . . The SALT LAKE COUNTRY CLUB annually hold a “mock polo” game in which the riders ride mules and use broomsticks. . . . Bike races must be a dangerous sport, for Reggie McNamara has suffered twelve broken collarbones, three broken ribs, a fractured skull, a broken nose, jaw and leg during his career.
•
’Tis said that MEL OTT is the only man in baseball who has never worked a day in his life; at the age of 16 he left high school, went to the GIANTS, made good, and has been in the big show ever since. ... It is no bed or roses for GLEN SKEWES and ROLLIN PARSONS, members of the Nebraska varsity football team, as they are earning their way through college by scrubbing the floors of the state capital building . . . There is a baseball team in JAPAN made up of the younger priests of the Zojiji, ancient Buddhist temple in Shiba Park, Tokio. . . . Four former middleweight boxing champions are still active in ring competition — MICKEY WALKER, GORILLA JONES, BEN JEBY and LOU BROUILLARD. . . . Doc Hart trained Johnny Coulon for years but he proved to be a hoodoo; he saw him in only one bout, that in which he lost his title to KID WILLIAMS.
. • vj* wjtM* M rs omm*1
The custom of spring training for baseball teams at Southern camps dates back to 1886, when the CHICAGO club went to Hot Springs. . . . Only seven major league players have achieved the distinction of figuring in-five double plays in one game; RYAN, Giants; LARY, Yan-
Sixteen	<
kees; DUROCHER, Reds; LEVEY, Browns; JACKSON, Giants; O’LEARY, Tigers; and WRIGHT of the Pirates. . . . Rip Collins, of the Cardinals, attended 62 banquets last winter and delivered a speech at each one of the free meals. . . . JACK MCLAUGHLIN, backstop of the Indiana University baseball team, is the smallest catcher in the Big Ten; he weighs but 126 pounds. . . . Three major league baseball clubs may train in foreign lands next spring—CINCINNATI in Havana, WASHINGTON in Porto Rico, and the GIANTS in Panama. . . . PERCY KYNASTON, veteran tennis player, has won ten three-year cups and holds two legs on four others.
Basketball Squad Finishes
Spring Cage Practice
Coach George Keogan called a halt to spring basketball practice on Thursday of last week, concluding the workouts with a hard scrimmage between two well balanced fives. Of the approximately 20 candidates who reported for practice daily, 12 were sophomores and eight freshmen.
The’ most notable achievement of the spring session was the rapid development of Johnny DeMots, a rangy lad from Minot, N. D. Coach Keogan has done a remarkable job in moulding this youngster from a mediocre ball player into a smooth functioning center. DeMots is sure to be in the thick of the battle for that center position when the call is issued next fall.
Captain Jordan, Ford, O’Kane, and Ireland were devoted much of the mentor’s time, all four being relied upon to carry the brunt of the burden during the coming season. John Hopkins, forward, who saw a good deal of action during the past campaign, showed up well in Keogan’s cross court game. This type of play is old stuff for Keogan, for it was his style of play before he obtained the welcomed services of Ed Krause. Speed and then some is demanded in this system as compared to the center pivot attack which has been used the past three seasons and which relies more on deception and height than speed.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
trophy annually given to the interscholastic football player in the metropolitan district who is most valuable to his team. The awarding of the trophy is based on a poll of interscholastic officials and coaches.
In addition to his athletic achievements, Bill is the treasurer of the senior class and of the metropolitan club. He will be graduated cum laude from the College of Arts and Letters this June.
La Raza Soccer Team Defeats Michigan, 3-0
An aggressive La Raza team, functioning smoothly, handed the Latin American team of the University of Michigan a defeat last Sunday at Ann Arbor by the comfortable margin of 3-0.
Roces, diminutive center forward of the Notre Dame team, counted twice in the first half and was the outstanding man on offense. Roces’ first goal was scored on a pass from Gomez and the second on a pass from Brias.	.
The teams fought on even terms from then until late in the second half when Jim Creel counted again for LaRaza on a high cross shot.
Singson, Yriberry and Busqueta starred on defense for LaRaza. Tellez and Terrazas were outstanding for Michigan.
A cup donated by the Mexican consul of Detroit and the alumni of the University of Michigan was awarded to the LaRaza team for their victory. It will be given to the team which scores the most goals in the two game series and will then be returned for competition next year.
Next Sunday the return game will be played with the Wolverine aggregation at Notre Dame at 10:00 a.m. The Hibernians will clash with the South Bend Turnvereins at 1:30 Sunday.
Commencement Graduation Invitations
Charles L. Monnot, chairman of Commencement Invitations, announces that orders for Commencement Invitations for the class of ’34, are now being taken. All orders, however, must be turned in not later than Friday, May 18 to assure delivery in time.
The invitation this year is the most attractive ever presented on the campus. It features a smart blue, leather cover, graced with an impression of the Dome, resplendent in rich gold. Also available is the same booklet with a cardboard cover. The price of the invitation with the leather cover is 39 cents, while that with the cardboard cover sells at 23 cents. These distinctive graduation souvenirs are now on display with:
Charles L. Monnot, 237 Walsh; Jim Moscow, 307 Walsh; Tony Anzlovar, 9 Sorin; Leo Hendricks, Off Campus, 719 Miner St., Phone 3-6041.
The Sc helastic 7
•i
1
1
COMMENCEMENT
(Continued from Page 7)
will be flown over the campus during the coming scholastic year. ’
Mrs. Genevieve Gravan Brady will receive the Laetare medal in Rome, Italy, sometime in June. Father Nieuwland who is going to Rome as a delegate to the International Acetylene Congress, will take the medal to Rev. George M. Sauvage. C.S.C., Procurator General, who in turn will give the medal to Mrs. Brady. Mrs. Brady lives in a palace oposite the Vatican.
The public will be admitted to the Class Day Exercises, and those on Sunday night. Cards of invitation, which will be distributed to seniors by the Committee on Commencement Invitations of which Charles L. Mon-not is the chairman, must be presented for admittance to all other ceremonies. The final visit to. the Church'on Saturday morning will be private.
The expenses, as listed by Osborn, consist of a diploma fee of ten dollars for all those graduating, a tax of five dollars on all probation students, and for these students of the School of Journalism, a charge of five dollars for the formal professional certificate—which is optional.
PROFESSIONAL CAREER
Hundreds of college men and women have found a pleasant and dignified career as optometrical eye specialists!
The Pennsylvania State College of Optometry, a class “A” school, offers a degree course. Extensive clinical facilities, complete laboratories and equipment, well-known faculty.
Pennsylvania State College of Optometry
For catalog write Registrar, Box C, Spencer Ave. and Twelfth St., Philadelphia, Pa.
Europe
andBACK
A New High in Travel
Value
A New Low in Travel Price • ’ ’
11445?
ROUND TRIP - THIRD CLASS _
THE
STCA
WAY IS
THE
COLLEGE
WAY
For Details I Your Local Agent or 5TCA HOLLAND AMERICA LINE 40 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from Page 5)
Chairman Russ Leonard. Miss Jeannette O’Connor, Chicago, guest of President Moscow is the guest of honor.
“Lovely Evening,” a ballad composed by Charlie Jahr and Bob Butler, seniors, will be played and sung at the Ball proper. Individual copies will be given to the guests.
During the intermission at the Ball tonight, the campus trio of Tompkins, Fromm, and Henry will sing the Ball song, “Lovely Evening.” The program will be announced and handled by Charlie Jahr, the senior class detective.
Mickey Isley and his orchestra will play for the tea dance. All of the activities for the weekend are on Central Standard Time. A special bulletin issued by Father Dolan concerning regulations will be found on the hall bulletin boards.
Saturday Movie
“I Am Suzanne,” with Lillian Harvey and Gene Raymond, will be shown in Washington Hall tomorrow night. The usual newsreel and short subject will be shown.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354	Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
Gillette Razor
with 5 Blue Blades
In Handsome
Leatherette case	W
New gold-plated razor with a husky handle complete in black and red metal case with 5 Blue Blades.
Makes one blade last for months
Twinplex Stropper
Regularly
98c . . . OOC
More than doubles the life of your blades. Strops Gillette type, Gillette or Probak blades.
Walgreen
DRUG STORE
208 N. MICHIGAN ST. L. Newman, Mgr.
May 11, 19 34
Seventeen
'TL 1
Ine clean
Center Leaves are the
mildest leaves
7^^	f
Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
As you can see from this picture—Luckies’ fine, smooth quality doesn’t just happen —for we use only the dean center leaves! Only the clean center leaves—for which farmers are paid higher prices—for the center leaves are the mildest leaves—they taste better. Then — “It’s toasted” — for f-krnnf1	A	1	~
Only the clean center leaves—for which farmers are paid higher prices — -for the center leaves are the mildest leaves—they taste better. Then —“It’s toasted” —for throat protection. And every Lucky is
r::
made round and firm —free from loose ends—that’s why Luckies “keep in condition”— do not dry out. Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat.
“It’s toasted”
V Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves
Copyright, 1034, Tho American Tobacco Company.
@rean$^ Twiy
| Burke’s Eye Service 1
=	EYES EXAMINED	1
|	GLASSES FITTED	|
|	DR. J. BURKE	|
\	DR. W. G. BOGARDUS	|
|	DR. E. C. BEERY	|
E Optometrists & Manufacturing : =	Opticians	=
E 228 S. Michigan St. : E	Established 1900	E
H-mill tttllllllllllltllllllillUIIIIIIIIIHilllllllllltllllllllllllllllH
Go your own way on your own ships
TO EUROPE
COLLEGE men and women are discovering that there is something new in Tourist Class on America’s new liners, the Manhattan and Washington. You’ll find broad, sunny decks high up in the ship; large and beautiful public rooms; modern, well ventilated cabins; tiled swimming pool; air-conditioned dining salon. The Manhattan and Washington, the world’s fastest cabin liners. With their running mates, the President Harding and President Roosevelt, they offer weekly service to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg.
TOURIST CLASS
*113 (up) One Way <204 (up) Round Trip Sailings between June 11 to Jub 9 rates slightly higher.
See your local agent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Company, Ina, Gen. Agts. Company’s Office, 216 N. Mich. Ave.,
Chicago, Hl.
DOME PREVIEW
(Continued from Page 4)
action pictures or campus views.
Particularly outstanding in the 1934 story of Notre Dame, is the absence of lengthy articles, so characteristic of past yearbooks. No page in the entire issue has more than several lines of type. No long-ballyhoo decriptions of the halls, the campus clubs, the publications’ men, the success of the class dances, the integrity of certain class officers, etc., will be found in the Dome. Catch words, perhaps a phrase or two, and significant pictures convey the idea of each page. The little writing that is in the book is exceptionally well handled and shows to the reader the power of the selectivity of words.
William G. Burkhardt, managingeditor of the 1934 Dome, assisted Editor Hruby in the various technical phases of the book and is largely responsible for the efficient handling of the taking of group and individual pictures during the eight months in which the Dome was being put together.
The new 1934 Dome in all its splendor will be distributed to the students on May 22. At present, the larger portion of the book has been printed, and is going through a drying process necessary to the clearness of the many photographic reproductions in the book.
Molinari Chosen Head
Of Capital District Club
Gerry Molinari, of Oneonta, New York, was elected president of the Capitol District Club of that state in an election held in Brownson Hall Thursday evening, May 3.
Harold Rhodes, of Rensselaer, was elected vice-president; Richard Sa-mowski of Amsterdam, treasurer; and Daniel Mahoney of Troy, secretary.
A meeting will be held in the near future to make arrangements for the smoker and the summer dance.
The retiring officers are: Frank Mahar, president; James Dwyer, vicepresident; Frank Kelly, treasurer; and William Casazza, secretary.
Phone; Office 4-5861 Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend Indiana
Established 30 Years lemontrees OPTOMETRISTS 22212 South Michigan Street ' South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
. Twenty
The Scholastic
Even glass insulators behave badly toward telephone currents when humidity is high. This has been proved by experiments at Bell Telephone Laboratories.
When it’s humid, a film of moisture forms on the glass. The more humid, the thicker the film — and the more electrical current escapes! Important factors governing amount of leakage are the chemical nature of the glass, its shape and age, the amount and kind of dirt on its surface.
Through exhaustive studies, telephone men have developed more efficient types of glass insulators — and are seeking ways to make them still better. Close attention to every detail of Bell System equipment leads to constantly improving service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
WHY NOT TELEPHONE HOME ONCE EACH WEEK? REVERSE THE CHARGES IF YOUR FOLKS AGREE.
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND.