J 2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
FEBRUARY 10 1933
0
Wooden soldiers
in the war against decay
To conquer the forces of decay which attack telephone poles, scientists of Bell Telephone Laboratories carry on a relentless campaign.
They study many kinds of wood, test many preservatives. They isolate wood destroying fungi and insects—study them in the laboratory—search for a practical means of combating their attack. They have set out armies of stub poles in Mississippi, Colorado and New Jersey where altitude, climate and soil vary widely. At regular intervals they inspect these poles to learn which woods and preservatives are best.
Such scientific thoroughness, is one reason why Bell System plant becomes more efficient each year. And why telephone service is so dependable.
BELL SYSTEM
TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE . . .TONIGHT AT HALF-PAST EIGHT I
February 10, 1933	.	'	One
Here’s Where You
Can Get
A REAL RETURN
from your
ADVERTISING DOLLARS
THE SCHOLASTIC is the official student ' . news publication of the University of Notre ' Dame. Its readers come from every state in the Union and seventeen foreign countries.
Notre Dame’s three thousand students and their families represent a prosperous and .	responsive market. Every student at Notre
Dame reads THE SCHOLASTIC.
Through the influence of tradition, heredity and environment, Notre Dame men prefer to purchase from advertisers in their own publication.
IT’S A GOOD INVESTMENT TO
ADVERTISE IT
™ the SCHOLASTIC
February 10, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- "pi	k I	I |
I he INotre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to ,	,	.	.
the scholastic, Pubti- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Monturus
cations Office, Main Building.	vnuwrirn , Q c -
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
LESLIE RADDATZ
News Staff MITGHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BY'RNE......Assistant Notes Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART	JOHN McELLIGOTT
FRANK KELLEY MICHAEL WIEDL
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors TIGHE WOODS...............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ...........Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL........Staff Artist
Sports Staff FRED Macbeth	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
RAY WA.TERS............  .Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY	EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.___________Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH..............Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
FEBRUARY 10, 1933
No. 15
S UMMARY
NEWS
Chicago Station will broadcast Notre Dame-Kent
Speech Fray tomorrow afternoon__________________ 5
Dr. John A. Ryan, Noted Catholic Economist to lecture here Monday; subject is “Depression”----- 5
Fifty Enthusiastic Entrants train for Scholastic
Boxing Tourney__________________________________ 6
“Good Will and Good Time” achieved in Freshman
Smoker; 600 Attend_____________________________ 7
Bengal Mission to receive profits of Junior Prom, says Chairman Hoban______________________________ 8
Slight decrease in second semester registration figures 9
Dome Photography will be resumed Monday__________10
Father John Kelley Organizes Campus Society of
Vincent De Paul_________________________________13
FEATURES
"Man About” is Pat Crowley------------------------ 8
Less “Bull” in Bulletins and More Time to Eat are discussed in “Voice”_____________________________ 9
Writer traces interesting parallel between Grotto of
Lourdes and Notre Dame Grotto___________________12
John Galsworthy, Novelist. . . . his life. . . his works_ 13
Proposed plans of farm relief are evaluated by
Walter Johnson__________________________________16
Notre Dame gains fame in scientific research______17
SPORTS
Irish to climax home cage season tomorrow, in battle with great Pitt five __________________________20
Keoganites run over Chicago 39-26 with Jordan leading the scoring________________________________21
Notre Dame track squad to make first home appearance tonight against Purdue____________________21
Ten games played on opening day of Interhall cage league ___________________________________________23
Murphy breaks Marquette Gym high jump record, but Irish lose____________________________________23
An Old-Time miracle—Sorin .beat Corby_______________24
Splinters from the Press Box________________________25
Introducing Fred MacBeth____________________________26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Feb. 10.—Scholastic staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., editorial offices, Ave Maria building; news, sports and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.; track meet, Varsity vs. Purdue, 7:30 p. m., Gym.
SATURDAY, Feb. 11.—Basketball game, Varsity vs. Pittsburgh, 8:00 p. m., Gym. Band concert, Gym, 7:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 12.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall basketball games, 9:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m., Gym.
MONDAY, Feb. 13.—Lecture: Reverend John A. Ryan, D.D., Catholic economist, 8:00 p. m., Washington Hall; University handball tournament, sponsored by “Tip-Offs,” opens; Interhall track practice, 7:30 p. m., Gym.
TUESDAY, Feb. 14.—Patricians meeting, 7:45 p. m.; Law building, Economic Seminar meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 15.—Wrangler meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building; Interhall track practice, 7:30 p. m., Gym.
THURSDAY, Feb. 16.—Spectator meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
Four
The Scholastic
c
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
J T started as one of these sessions has a habit of doing, a little group gathering for a final cigarette before lights out. Somebody brought up Hearst’s “Buy American” campaign. The economic majors denounced it while the lawyers and journalists went on the defense. From “Buy American” the discussion led to the protective tariff and free trade, the scribes and barristers defending the high tariff. The question was finally settled by one of the economic majors saying, “Let’s cut out the theory stuff; it sounds good but I, for one, wouldn’t even be in college if it were not for dividends which large corporations are able to pay through the protective tariff!”
V
' HIS section of THE WEEK is being written in the infirmary. (What! No flowers from the S. A. C.?) A quaint old spot is this infirmary. Washington Hall has had its face lifted and the United States Naval Observatory time controls the clocks in the Main Building, but the infirmary hasn’t changed much. Only in the dispensary where brown and blue and white bottles stand in orderly battalions and companies on shelves reaching to the ceiling, can one see signs of the present. Some day, when the collector’s fancy makes Victorian furniture more valuable than Louis Quatorze, the infirmary may chatter busily, but right now it is content to doze as one of the patriarchs of the campus and dream of past glories.
V
(jT ET Cap and Gown Measurements Today,” and the seniors are once more made conscious that this is the last semester. Now wait a minute, we are not ready for the tear duct yet; there are still plenty of issues for the heavy drama. But all of this is just a preparation for Washington’s Birthday. It will be fun for everyone but the seniors. They will assume an outward calm and an air of good-natured resignation, but behind their poker faces they will feel more ill at ease than the first time they ever wore a tuxedo. The mortar, cocked over one ear, as if flung there by some one who has little time for such trivialities,
has been painstakingly adjusted and the butterfly tie will receive more attention that morning than on the night of the Senior Ball. But then, being deadly serious is half the fun of being a senior.
V
J.' HE Student Activities Council is to be congratulated on its handling of the Freshman Smoker. These affairs are usually a trial by ordeal on all those who are forced to attend, but we enjoyed it immensely, probably because we were not marked as Exhibit A or Exhibit B. Our only-regret was that the bicycle race was not an all-interhall affair. Think of being crowned the champion bicycle rider of the campus! It might easily grow in popularity until the public demanded a six day affair. Think of the illustrious names that would appear on the scoreboard: Walsh Hall’s pony team, Addonizzio and Vejar.-the manager speed demons from Sorin, Wirry and Martin, and finally the wheeling architects from Corby, Garrity and Kigali. Really, such sprocket spinning talent should be exploited.
V
O NLY a few on the campus were even mildly-interested at the death of one of England’s great men of letters a fortnight ago. To some, the fact that John Galsworthy is dead is news even now. I once heard a man asking a lecturer why Galsworthy did not write more for the American magazines. Stories by Somerset Maugham, another Englishman, were frequently seen here, but those of Galsworthy were very scarce. The lecturer replied that Galsworthy wrote more for his pleasure than anything else. His reward was self-satisfaction; Maugham’s reward was popularity with the American magazine reading public. He did not attempt the impossible task of bringing a magazine public up to his ideas, he wrote down to the public. Maugham wrote with an eye to the success of the publication, Galsworthy wrote for his art. But no matter what were his motives, the author of the “Forsyte Saga,” will live in English literature as the modem Thackeray.
a
February 10, 1933
Five
NOTRE DAME AND KENT TO DEBATE TOMORROW
DR. JOHN A. RYAN, NOTED CATHOLIC ECONOMIST, TO LECTURE HERE MONDAY
Kirby, Becek Will Represent University Over WLS.
If any student should feel himself intellectually inclined after a heavy and substantial meal tomorrow noon, let him turn the dials of his radio to Station WLS Chicago, at 12:30 o’clock to hear William Kirby and Joseph Becek, representing the University of Notre Dame, debate with Kent College of Law, Chicago, on the question, “Resolved: that the United States Government should own and operate the chief sources of hydroelectric power.”
On Affirmative Side
Becek, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, and Kirby, a junior in the Law College, will take the affirmative side of the question against two debaters from Kent College, according to William J. Coyne, director of the Notre Dame Debating activities. Both of the Notre Dame contestants have had experience with this question, having met and defeated Purdue university on the same subject last December.
Decisions on this debate will be gleaned in the main from farming communities through the medium of cards mailed out by Station WLS this past week. The final decision will be announced later.
Each debater wlil be allowed seven minutes for a constructive argument and six minutes for a refutation, making a total time limit of 52 minutes for the debate.
With proteges working on both questions, that of taxation and that of hydro-electric power, Mr. Coyne hopes to fill in a debating schedule outline within the next few weeks.
Movie Schedule For Third
Quarter of Year Announced
The movie schedule released this week by Reverend William Hi Molony, C.S.C., for Washington Hall is as follows:
Feb. 21st—“Phantom of Crestwood.”
March 11th—“The Expert.”
March 18th—‘ Once in a Lifetime.”
March 25th—“The Old Dark House.”
Charles Fiss Named Chairman of Program For Washington’s Day
By Thomas Proctor
With the naming of Charles J. Fiss of the Arts and Letters College as general chairman, Francis A. Werner, president of the senior class gives
Charles Fiss 88th Anual Chairman.
assurance that the program for the 88th Annual Washington Day Exercise is taking a definite form. The other members of the program committee are, John A. O’Connor, College of Commerce, William J. Kenney, College of Science, Charles J. Slatt. College of Engineering, and Norman M. Bowes, College of Law.
Those who know nothing of the purpose and function of the Washington Day Exercise will be interested in this brief resume. On February 22, 1845, Notre Dame, then a young and struggling institution, arranged a Washington Day event as part of an annual program. It was decided that the graduating senior class should have the responsibility of putting on this exercise; and this custom has been adhered to as part of Notre Dame tradition through eightyeight years.
Odes and addresses dedicated to the memory of George Washington, (Continued on Page 9)
WILL TREAT DEPRESSION
“Causes and Remedies” To Be Discussed by Catho'ic U. Professor and Author.
By Mitchell Tackley
Reverend John A. Ryan, D.D., foremost Catholic economist in America, and internationally known for several excellent books on economic and moral subjects, will deliver a lecture to the students of Notre Dame Monday evening, Feb. 13, at 8:00 o’clock in Washington Hall. Father Ryan’s subject will be “The Present Economic Depression; Its Causes and Remedies.”
On Lecture Tour
This lecture by Doctor Ryan is given under the auspices of the Department of Philosophy, and because of Dr. Ryan’s eminence in this field, it is expected that all upper classmen will be present to profit by what he will have to say.
Father Ryan is engaged as a professor of Economics and Political Science at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. His lecture at Notre Dame is one of several which he is delivering at various centers in the Middle West.
Outstanding among the works of Father Ryan is the text, The Living Wage, which is used throughout the country’s universities in various classes. He is also the author of such excellent works as, Distributive Justice, said to be one of the most significant books to appear within the last decade; Social Reconstruction: Socialism’. Promise or Menace?; The Church and Labor; The State and the Church, and Declining Liberty and Other Papers.
Hold Other Positions
- Other than a professor of Economics, Father Ryan is professor of Moral Theology and Industrial Ethics at Catholic University; professor of Political Science at Trinity College; Professor of Ethics at the National Catholic School of Social Service, and (Continued on Page 12)
Six
The Scholastic
Fifty Entrants Go Into
Training for Bengal Show
WRANGLERS RECEIVE SIX NEW MEMBERS
WEIGHIN MONDAY
Len Dunn in Charge of Large Group of Boxers; Weight
Deadline Announced.
By Howard Waldron
With the entry blanks of some fifty pugilistically minded young men in the possession of the director of the Bengal Boxing Show, Len Dunn, the Tourney to be conducted under the auspices of The Scholastic has assumed very promising proportions.
The contestants began their preliminary training on last Monday and are rapidly rounding into the form which is necessary for first class competition. The caliber of the men contesting this year promises the fight fans the greatest exhibition of the art of fisticuffs that has ever been shown on the campus.
Excellent Prizes
These men are training in all seriousness for this important event which takes place on March 3 and which gives to the winners not only the University titles in the various weights, but also sweaters with an N. D. worked onto a glove background. The losers will also receive very worth-while and practical prizes.
On Monday, February 13, all the contestants must report to the Varsity locker room, at 4:15 p. m., where they will be weighed in by Len Dunn. This weighing in will be used as a basis for determining the classes the men must enter and, in some cases, to see if it is possible for them to train down to a lower weight class. There will be another check-up of ■weights about a week before the final bouts. This will be accepted as the final judgment on the class in which each,entrant must do his fighting.
Express Notice!
The Book Store, beginning today, will act as a special receiving station for Express laundry shipments. Inquire at Main Office or at Book Store for attractive rates.
SPEAKER
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
To Wranglers: “You are better fitted”
Twelve Candidates Out For Italian Club Basketball
At a meeting of the Italian Club last Tuesday evening in Walsh Hall, twelve members answered the call for basketball candidates. Practice sessions will soon get under way with Sabby Addonizio as coach. At present, efforts are being made to secure the basketball court on nights not interfering with the varsity or interhall schedule.
February 15 was set as the final date for back dues to be paid, and members failing to do this will not be considered in good standing and will lose their privilege of voting in the future club elections.
Papers were read by Salvatore Costa and Jules Rocco, the latter giving an interesting account of the development of Fascism in Italy during the last ten years. The meeting was brought to a close with a short address by the president, Jerome Ferrara, after which cigars and cigarettes were distributed among the club members.
There need be no apprehension that American institutions will be endangered by any contact with radical doctrine if our government can be wrested from the grip of concentrated wealth and taken back by the people. —Gifford Pinchot, Governor of Pennsylvania.
Father John Cavanaugh Acts As Toastmaster.
With all the dignity that is characteristic of the Wranglers, six new members, men selected from a group of 20, were admitted to the society at a formal banquet held at the Rose Marie Tea-room last Wednesday evening.
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chaplain of the Wranglers was the principal speaker of the evening, and being assigned to no particular subject upon which to talk, proceeded to take up a varied list, including comments on the extremely high caliber of the new members, and of the value to be received from a membership in the Wranglers.
Cites Value Of Club
His expressions centered, for a time, around companionship, and the distinct advantage to be gained from such an organization in the pursuit of culture. “You men are better fitted to impart refinement, than perhaps the most efficient professors, because you accept, more genially, the advice and example as is set forth by your fellow-members. That comes with companionship.”
Father Cavanaugh complimented the society on the marvelous success enjoyed in the sponsoring of interhall debating, and expressed himself in hearty approval of a continuation of the work.
President Boyle officially introduced the new men, and welcomed them into the society. As toastmaster of the occasion it was his pleasure to present them to the organization.
List Of New Men -
They were, in order of speaking:' Franklyn Hochreiter, Robert Schmelzle, Justin Hannen, Edwin Holman, Thomas Procter and Eugene Blish. Two men from each of the three underclasses composed the group.
Before the introduction of Father Cavanaugh the older members of the Wranglers were requested to address the diners. Francis Cauley and Thomas O’Meara, seniors, added to the previous speakers in welcomnig the six men by explaining what was expected ' of them as Wrangelrs.
February 10, 1933
Seven
GERMAN CATHOLIC LIFE IS SUBJECT OF ADDRESS
Six Hundred Frosh Attend Class Smoker Wednesday
Professor Menge Speaks To German Club.
SPONSOR
S. A. C. SPONSORS
c
In a lecture delivered before the members of the German Club Tuesday evening, February 7, Professor Paul J. Menge, Ph.D., Department of Modem Language, pointed out that the German people were of a deeply religious nature. “One-third of the entire population is Catholic; according to the census of 1925 the remainder of the population belongs to one or the other Protestant denomination,” he said.
Illustrates With Pictures
His address, “Catholic Life in Germany,” was chiefly concerned wtih an explanation of a set of slides recently obtained from Europe. The collec-. tion includes pictures of famous German cathedrals, monasteries, and shrines. Incidentally, Dr. Menge is the only person in the United States to possess this particular collection.
Perhaps the most impressive picture was that of the Imperial Cathedral at Speyer, on the Rhine. Built about the year 1030, the famous church is of Romanesque style with the typically German feature of numerous steeples. “This Cathedral is especially dear to the Germans because it contains the graves of many former German emperors,” pointed out the lecturer.
“Curiously, when a young man is ordained to the priesthood,” he continued, “it is customary for his whole village to have a festival. Even the Jews enter into the spirit of the celebration. And on Corpus Christi, the Protestants as well as the Catholics take part in the festivities. The reason for the participation of the nonCatholics in these religious ceremonies is that they wsih to honor their Catholic townsmen,” explained Professor Menge.
Need Medical Missionaries
At present there is a movement afoot in Germany to induce young doctors to devote their lives to' mission work. While there is always a need for missionaries the problem of obtaining medically trained men to supplement their work is an acute one. After the war a school was en-
(Continued on Page 14)
James Gerend
Six hundred freshmen said “hello.”
Late “Voice” Letter
The following letter was received too late to go into the “Voice,” but because of its significance, we insert it below:
Mr. Edmund A. Stephan,
Scholastic Editor,
Dear Sir:
During a discussion in my room the other night the question of corsages for the Junior Prom arose. As you already know, this question has been of vital importance for the past year or so because of the depression.
Last year the present Junior Class established a precedent by ostracizing the custom of giving corsages. Inasmuch as the financial conditions of most members of our class will not permit such an unnecessary expense, we feel that our precedent should be continued.
Since this discussion we have talked with many who are of the same opinion but no one wished to take the initiative on this matter. Therefore, as an appeal to the common sense of the Juniors, I urge that we unite against this senseless convention.
Sincerely,
E. C.
Bergen, Toastmaster; Boxing, Wrestling, and Band Music
Feature Entertainment.
By Robert Ervin
Six hundred attended the first annual smoker of the Freshman class in the Notre Dame gymnasium Wednesday evening. The affair, conducted by the Students Activities Council, was held to enable the Freshmen to become better acquainted with one another.
President Sweeney Speaks
James Gerend, president of the S. A. C., opened the smoker by welcoming the members of the Freshman class urging them to enter into the informality of the evening. He then presented Bob Bergen, master of ceremonies, who in turn, introduced Jack Sweeney, newly-elected president of the class.
This was the first time that Sweeney addressed the class as a whole since his election. He heartily thanked them for the honor bestowed upon him. Sweeney concluded his talk by stating that it should be the aim of each Freshman present to make at least one new speaking acquaintance during the smoker.
Band Entertains
Master of Ceremonies Bergen kept the program going at a fast pace throughout the evening. During his introductions, there was an evidence of humor that kept the audience in an uproar. He also acted as announcer of the various skits on the program.
The skits presented were interspersed with popular songs sung by the students. Professor Joseph J. Cas-sasanta and his University Band led the music and entertained with several special concert and novelty numbers.
Some of the specialties presented during the evening were several vocal solos, instrumental selections, humorous skits, a tumbling act, and a fencing exhibition. Three boxing bouts, and three wrestling matches, featuring interhall contestants concluded the program. Kitty Gorman and (Continued on Paste 10)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
BENGAL MISSION WILL RECEIVE PROM PROFITS
Whenever anybody goes into Pat Crowley’s room, the first thing he always says is, “Listen, Crowley, when are you going to clean up that awful desk?” It is an aw^ul desk, littered with four years’ accumulation of text-books and other odds and ends. Joyce’s Natural Theology rubs philosophical elbows with Ward’s Philosophy of Value; at least 20 other books are piled one on top of the other in a great, precarious heap. Besides the text-books, this strange desk also holds a trick ash-tray without a bottom, a Bible, three dog-eared decks of cards, and Will Durant’s Story of Philosophy. Crowley must enjoy this mess—at any rate he never does anything about it.
News! He Has An Aim
But amid all this confusion, Pat manages to maintain a very well-ordered mind. He really is a serious fellow, and has a pretty good idea of what he wants to do when he leaves Notre Dame—something that very few members of the class of ’33 can say. Pat intends to begin the study of law next year at Northwestern, in his own home town. After that, anything can happen. He should do well at Northwestern, judging from his academic success at Notre Dame. If grades are an indication—and who says they aren’t?—Pat will match his private average with any man’s!
Feminine Element Easy
Usually in these man-about writeups, the reporter tries his mightiest to introduce the feminine element. Sometimes this requires some stretching of the reportorial imagination. But such flights of - the imagination are not at all necessary when the person being discussed is Pat Crowley. Names and addresses fairly leap to the mind. He won’t tell you about them all, but his friends will. They say that he has admirers all over the Middle West. Pat is, socially speaking, no specialist — he is rather a general practicioner, and believes in giving all comers an equal opportunity.
On the side of the ledger labeled “lighter diversions,” we find that Pat plays a good game of contract bridge and a fair game of golf. His ping-pong is, however, not quite up to snuff. He used to play football in
high-school, but the advancing years must have made him soft, or else the league around here is a little bit too fast. Probably the latter is the cor-
Pat Crowley
General practitioner . . . “good egg.”
rect reason, because Pat is still as husky as a wrestler.
By the way, if any of you are planning a trip to Europe and if you’re not certain that you know the ropes, just drop in on Crowley in 349 Sorin. He’s been over twice, once as a passenger on the Berengaria, the second time as an ordinary seaman on a freight-boat. That’s versatility for you! He’ll tell you anything you want to know about European travel —the fluctuations of the franc, menus in German, the difference between Chianti and Chablis—none of these subleties holds any mystery for Sorin’s Pat.
Know Him Anyway
Even if you’re not going to Europe, you ought to know Pat, if you don’t already—most people do. He is one of those persons that people call a “good egg.” He has a never-failing good humor, he doesn’t “beef” when things aren’t breaking right, he has a good head, and he always knows what’s going on. Those are good recommendations for anybody, and if anyone deserves them, Pat Crowley does.
Stalin is individualism triumphant. He has submerged himself completely. —Rabbu Leon Feuer.
George Reese is Chairman of Dinner Dance.
The Bengal Missions null receive all money over and above expenses of the Junior Prom this year announces Chairman John J. Hoban, in charge of this year’s dance. Over 300 couples are expected to attend the promenade.
Dinner dance plans are now complete. George K. Reese, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters has been chosen by Chairman Hoban as chairman of the dance. Committee-men who will assist him are Joseph Regan, and Thomas Byrne.
Dinner Dance At Oliver
Hal Dennam and his orchestra of Indianapolis, Ind., will play for the dinner dance. This orchestra is known for its specialty of playing at midwestern fraternity and college dances. The dance will take place at the Oliver hotel, Saturday evening, Feb. 25. The hours have been set for 7:30 to ll:C0. All students must be in their place of residence by 12:00. The fee for the dance will be three dollars, a considerable reduction from last year.
The ticket sale for the prom opened Monday and is progressing most favorably. Already over one-half of the number allotted to seniors has been sold. James Cole, 258 Alumni is chairman of the ticket committe. Residents of Alumni Hall may obtain their tickets from him. Badinites and Howardites are asked to purchase their tickets from Bob Fitzsimmons, and Charles Litty, respectively. Seniors may obtain their tickets from Roger McGovern, Sorin Hall.
Simple Invitations
The invitations this year are simple and consist of a single card engraved in old English type. Marty Donlan, Howard Hall, is chairman of the committee. His assistants are William Veneeman, Alumni, and John Oitzing-er, Badin. Students may secure the invitations from their hall representative.
The Prom song written by Francis Lavengood and George Fanelli is en-Mtled “Close to Me.” Jack Miles and his orchestra, who will play for the prom proper, have made orchestral arrangements of the number.
February 10, 1933
Nine
2659 ARE REGISTERED FOR SECOND SEMESTER
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Figures Show a Decrease of 121 Students.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
A total of 2,659 students have entered the various colleges of the University of Notre Dame for the second semester of the school year 1932-33, according to a final and official tabulation released this week by the Office of the Director of Studies. This figure marks a decrease of 121 from the September registration of 2,780.
The report lists further that the total registration for the entire year reaches a figure of 2,838. At the end of the first semester and during the first week of the new semester 179 students left school, this net loss including graduates, discontinued students, failures and expulsions. The graduating class as given last week consisted of 28 students. The February or second semester enrollment of new students amounts to a total of 58, thus decreasing the entire loss for the school year from 179 to 121.
This loss was felt in all of the six colleges of the University with the exception of th e College of Law; which maintained its enrollment of 159 for both semesters. 60 graduate students are included in the February enrollment of 2,659.
“Sure I Like It—Nice Place”
—Frosh From Greece
Paledoros E. Andreou, who lives in Dillon, came here from Aegion, Greece. His uncle, a restaurant proprietor in South Bend, induced Paledoros to choose Notre Dame, because he knew that the Engineering school was good.
The University appeals to Andreou. This is what he has to say about it, “Sure I like it. Far away from noise. I like the lakes. Nice place.”
Paledoros studied Pharmacy for one year at the National University in Athens. According to Andreou, students are more industrious here than in Greece for after a class is over at the National University, studies are practically forgotten until the next class. He says, “Not so lazy here.”
After graduation Paledoros plans to return to Greece where there are countless opoprtunities open for engineers, he says.
ANTI-AESTHETE
The Editor of The Scholastic
119 Sorin Hall
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
By and large, I consider the Notre Dame managers’ association one of the best organized and the most efficient groups on the campus. But like all good things, the managers have their limitations. And don’t you really think that they should respect them?
The most recent case of overstepping is the current Interhall Track Bulletin. It sounds like a prelude to the great uplift of our youth. Probably the student body understands what is being put across in the opus in question. But there are a lot of visitors loose around these parts on a weekend, and they can collect some queer impressions from bulletins— and they all read the bulletins!
To make a specific constructive criticism, why don’t the managers give up odes in favor of announcements? Or try bulletins rather than ballads? (The other sort of thing might be of some help to your “Young Scripper” fellow.)
Sincerelv,
J. Q. S.
KIWANI KONVERSATION
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
For a little relaxation after dinner the other night, a few of us gathered around one’fr*£he tables for a short session. proved to be extremely short.
One of the fellows happened to ask the question: “Why don’t the fellows take a little more time for eating?” He seemed to think that heaving one’s self outside with a full stomach is more repulsive than inviting to those students who want to spend a few minutes or so chewing their food.
The question caused a rather interesting discussion. A couple called the idea impractical. The entire system would have to be changed as the waiters and workers have none too much time now. Then, what Father McDonald calls “Kiwani Konversa-tion” would make the thought of such
leisure a joke, according to this fellow.
But the other fellows didn’t agree. They were of the opinion that such leisure would be thoroughly appreciated and properly used. Every type of student now and then feels the urge to talk over his chop.
Strangely enough, none of the men who favored this idea are brilliant conversationalists. We just thought a little more time might make for less appendicitis and better ideas. As Boswell said, “Dinner lubricates business.”
We think a lot more of you feel the same wray. How about some comments, suggestions, or expressions of interest? We’d like to see them in print.
D. J. B.
Plan Washington Program
(Continued from Page 5)
group singing of patriotic hymns, selections by the orchestra or band, and the presentation of an American Flag by the class president to the president of the University are parts of this first program which have come down through the years.
The flag thus given is first • raised as part of the Commencement exercises in June and floats for the ensuing year from the tall staff in the University grounds. It is afterwards added to the collection of flags donated by the preceding classes.
In 1904, Byron V. Kanaley, president of the senior class of that year, eloquently explained the meaning of the flag presentation with these words: “We leave this banner of the nation as a pledge that we shall put into practice the principles that Notre Dame teaches—principles that if carried out mean the perpetuation of the United States among nations as long as governments live anywhere on earth; principles, if we live up to which, mean that we shall be good and loyal citizens of the Republic.”
Final announcements concerning the program for the day wall be given in the next issue of The Scholastic. At the present time it is certain that the beautiful song and tribute, “Notre Dame, Our Mother” will be sung for the first time by this assemblage.
Ten
The Scholastic
PICK RAILS MODERNISM AT SPECTATORS’ MEET
Father Miltner, Moderator, Attends Session.
By William B. Dreux
Father Miltner, moderator of the Spectators’ Club, was present at the meeting held last night during the course of which John Pick, apparently wearing some seven league boots of aesthetic criticism, stepped from a discussion of traditionalism in art to a condemnation of such writers as Gertrude Stein.
Mr. Pick insisted that there was need for some authority in art, that we should not break too abruptly with the traditions of the past. He objected to the depressing tone of modem drama which is bitter and fatalistic in its implications. Eugene O’Neil was raked over the coals because his characters are too abnormal, and his philosophy of art too morbid.
In Love With Egos
Mr. Pick’s guns were next trained on Croce, Whitehead, Jeffers, and Dreiser. He showed that their principles in no way confirmed to objective standards, that these “modems” only set up their own egos with which they fell in love like Narcissus with his own image.
• Excerpts from Mr. Pick’s talk: “Modem psychology makes man less heroic by splitting him up into atoms ... In ideal drama the object should be to steer between cynicism and the land of knights and satins . . . From Balzac and Zola we get the idea that everything is a blind and furious flux ... As for Gertrude Stein she babbles like an infant, but we can take it or leave it . . . But I have a sincere admiration for T. S. Elliott ...”
Overlooks Philosophy As Guide
What Mr. Pick failed to do in his fifty minute talk was to mention principles of philosophy as a guide in interpreting and evaluating art. The result was that he left some gaps for his audience to bridge as best they could.
Joining in the discussion which followed Mr. Pick’s address Father Miltner pointed out that the term “Expressionism,” as applied to a certain vogue in art, is a misnomer because this art expresses or conveys nothing. “Such art is irrational and sheer non-
DISCIPUNARY WARNING ISSUED TO STUDENTS BY FATHER DOLAN.
The following official Bulletin was released last week from the office of the Prefect of Discipline:
“Those of us who have been in touch with your parents during the last semester, know what sacrifices most of them are making to keep you in school. In many instances they have kept this knowledge from you, for fear that it might disturb you and interfere with your study.
“There have been some instances during the past semester when disciplinary regulations have been violated, and the penalty prescribed in the Student Manual was not invoked. We felt that parents who were making unusual sacrifices, were entitled to unusual consideration. But the consideration which we have shown has been misinterpreted by some of the student body, who feel that the University cannot afford to dismiss a student. This misinterpretation has given rise to an alarming disregard for some of the most serious rules of discipline, in the last two weeks.
“This condition cannot be permitted to continue. So that clemency may not be mistaken for weakness, you are informed that the penalties provided in the Manual for violations of rules of discipline, will be strictly enforced in the future.”
sense” he said. “Its grotesqueness attracts only those who have no concepts whatsoever of intelligent aesthetic criticism.”
What Father Miltner thought especially unfortunate is the fact that these artists and their techniques are given prominence in newspapers and magazines hence they feel encouraged to spew out still more incoherent and fantastic productions. The Spectators’ moderator summed up the discussion by saying: “Art that does not portray or create beauty, using this term in its widest connotation, can have no appeal to men of reason; it is not true aesthetic expression and so it will never live.”
A petition signed by 268 colleges and 800 college presidents and faculty members, has been sent to Presidentelect Franklin D. Roosevelt, urging him to bring about the recognition of Soviet Russia by the United States.
BAND TO GIVE CONCERT IN GYM TOMORROW EVE
Special Program Arranged By Director Cassasanta.
Under the direction of Professor	i
Joseph J. Casasanta,the University Concert band of eighty pieces will present a special program of music in the Notre Dame gymnasium tomorrow evening at 7:30 o’clock.	• ’
The program to be presented by the bandsters includes a repertoire of popular and classical selections. The concert is scheduled to begin one half hour preceding the opening of the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame game. The regular arrangement of playing dur- - ’ ing the recesses of the game will also be carried out.
The band has received much commendation this year for its high caliber of music. They have participated	I
in many of the leading Notre Dame	j
activties of the yead including the testimonial banquet, the basketball games, and the Freshman Smoker held Wednesday evening in the gym-	|
nasium.
600 AT SMOKER
(Continued from Page 7)
Norm Greeney acted as referees of these contests.
Those participating in the boxing bouts were:
1.	Matt Leary, Dillon Hall, vs. Jim Tomlinson, Freshman Hall. Won by Tomlinson.
2.	Bart McKernan, Dillon Hall, vs. Shevani, Brownson Hall. Draw.
3.	Reno Tarantonello, Dillon Hall, vs. Pocius, Freshman Hall. Draw.
The contestants in the wrestling-matches were:
1.	Tom Dunn, Dillon Hall, vs. “Red” Camp, Brownson Hall. Draw.
2.	Carl De Vry, Brownson Hall, vs. Cy Connors, Brownson Hall. Draw.
3.	Pete Paul, Brownson Hall, vs. Saffro, Freshman Hall. Draw.
The committees in charge of the smoker were as follows: Jack Sweeney, general chairman; Art Cronin and Dick Baker, boxing and wrestling directors; Bob Ervin, Dan Hanrahan, Frank McDevitt, Dan McLaughlin, entertainment; Matt McShane, assisted by Ken Laws and Ed Noonan, musical program.
After the program was completed, refreshments were served to all those present.
February 10, 1933
Eleven
THREE PICTURES SHOWN BY COMMERCE FORUM
BECKLENBERG AND STAFF ISSUE “SANTA MARIA” THIS WEEK.
McCABE AND “JUGGLER” TO GO PROM-TROTTING
Marketing and Stock Exchange Are Subjects.
Three motion pictures of an educational nature were shown last evening in Washington Hall to a capacity audience. The movies were presented under the auspices of the Commerce Forum of which Francis Fogarty is president.
Two of the pictures shown are of the New York Stock Exchange. One of these named, “The Mechanics of the Nation’s Market Place” recorded the training and education that is given to the young employes of the exchange. It presented an interesting insight into the development of the abilities and efficiency of the employees.
The second of the pictures shown entitled, “The Nation’s Market Place” portrayed the method and system of transactions in stock. Interior picture of the exchanges were shown and the process of buying and selling was displayed.
The third picture, “The Story of the Census” picturized the scope and value of the United States census and how the data is tabulated. The film transcends the census applications of the electric tabulating and accounting machine method, showing at the close, various applications to general business.
U. Of Cincinnati Men To
Resume Excavations at Troy
Cincinnati—Excavations will go on again at the cite of ancient Troy next summer in an effort to trace the birthplace of modern civilization.
• The work will be directed by archeologists of the University of Cincinnati, headed by Dr. William T. Semple. This time, their interest aroused, European institutions will take part.
Digging beneath a broiling sun last year, the Cincinnati expedition revealed that nine cities had stood successively upon the cite of Troy, five of them before the city of which Homer sang and three more after the days of Helen, Achilles, Paris and Ulysses.
It also unearthed a theater built in the days of Rome, when the eighth city was in flower, a theater that • could accommodate 5,000 people.
The Santa Maria, official organ of the Notre Dame Chapter, Knights of Columbus, has made its first appearance on the campus. The magazine is four pages in length and carries articles of particular interest to all Knights.
Fred Becklenberg, Jr., editor of the magazine states in the editorial, that “the pilot is new, the crew is new, and the rigging is new, but the same old ship bears the same old name. Her sailing dates have changed .... her cargo is a bit different too . . . but still the Santa Maria carries on. . . .”
Because of its brevity, the paper itself is a marked departure from the Santa Maria of other years. The cover by Becvar is done in black and white and carries the traditional Spanish Galleon, the Santa Maria.
Assisting Becklenberg on the staff are John Jaeger, Walter Kennedy, F. Granger Weil, John McElligott, Edmund Moriarity, and Raymond Naber.
Audible Vision—What A Clamor Durante Will Make
Cleveland—“Ah, her profile sounds lovely!”
This may be heard at future beauty contests as a result of an invention exhibited last week at Case School of Applied Science here by Dr. Dayton C. Miller, professor of physics and outstanding authority on sound in this country.
The mechanical device transforms the curves of a profile into sound waves. If the sounds are in perfect harmony the curves get a rating of 100 per cent. Every defect or nicety of human features is detected by this latest and cruelest of machines, which makes vision audible.
In his demonstration of the machine, Dr. Miller exhibited the profile of the formerly famous screen star, Mary Miles Minter. The purity of the curves in her face were measured by Dr. Miller’s device, and their composite vibration waves resulted in a corresponding purity of sound. The net result, in fact, was a major chord perfectly attuned; or, to put it in another way, sounding the perfect mathematical relationships of the overtone series.
To Frolic, Funny Fellow Must Have Aid.
By The Old Scripper
There’s no reason why a magazine can’t go Prom-trotter as well as any student. When you come right down to it, the process is a whole lot easier. We figured the whole thing out the other night, between the knocks of our radiator.
When a student goes to a dance, he usually has to take a girl, unless he collects tickets or is a girl himself— and you know how many girls are students. If you know any girls, that is.
She Ought To Yawn
Now let us consider the case of a student who takes a girl. If he has known her a long time he is either tired of her or there is a reason for her yawning. (The number of girls who yawn on dates has been recently computed by the Academy of Science. It is about equal to the number of girls who go on dates.)
If he has only known her a short time, he must impress her that he is either, 1. a cavalier, 2. a caveman, or 3. a blase cosmopolitan, or all three depending on the hour of the evening. This becomes pretty tiresome as any 1. cavalier, 2. caveman,or 3? blase cosmopolitan can tell you.
There are two other classifications: Those who are taking blind dates and those who are in love. But we are notoriously soft-hearted, and must pass over the sad fate of these two lest we break out into blubbering. (This might awaken the editor of The Scholastic who should be writing this, and who is probably asleep next door.)
There are difficulties facing the student Prom-trotter. In contrast, all the Juggler has to do to be an old Prommie, is to receive a few contributions in re the dance, from you fellas. Suppose you aren’t going to the Prom? Rib the sissies that are! Or suppose that you are going and are one of the unfortunate classed above? You might as well beat your pals to it, they’re going to laugh at you, anyway. (We only wish that someone in love would write about it. That would well nigh split our sides!)
So rally round, lads, and help the Juggler to go Prom. Or else loan the editor enough so that he can go.
T welve
The Scholastic
75th Anniversary Novena To Lady of Lourdes Ends
DR. FRANCIS McMAHON ADDED TO A.B. FACULTY
The seventy-fifth anniversary novena to Our Lady of Lourdes ends tomorrow, February 11. Masses have been said daily at Lourdes and here at Notre Dame, the headquarters of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception. A box has been placed at the Grotto to receive any intentions of the students. To share in the
The Notre Dame Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes.
benefits of the novena, the intentions must reach the Confraternity by tomorrow.
The special intention of this no. vena is the canonization of Blessed Bernadette Soubirous. Our Lady first appeared to her in the Grotto at Lourdes in 1858 and later caused a spring to burst forth there. The Blessed Bernadette had gone with her sister and mother girl to gather fire wood but had been left behind by them near the Grotto. Our Lady appeared in the Grotto and beckoned to Bernadette to come to her. Blessed Bernadette knelt down, took out her beads, and said the rosary. At its completion the apparition disappeared. Bernadette was blessed with at least seventeen other visions. She entered the community of the Sisters of Charity and one year after taking her final vows she died.
Every year the sick and the lame
make pilgrimages to the Grotto at Lourdes to ask Our Blessed Mother to intercede for them. In 1932 there were one hundred and eighteen pilgrimages made to the shrine. These pilgrimages were not individual affairs but large groups from dioceses, parishes, and even nations. Of course not all the people who make the pil
grimage are healed but a great number of them are.
Just as pilgrimages are made to the Grotto at Lourdes so, too, do Notre Dame students make pilgrimages to the Grotto near the church. They go there at all hours of the day and far into the night to pray to Our Lady. They ask her assistance in everything they do. There has been a constant devotion to her here at Notre Dame. All Notre Dame ideals of fineness center around her.
The Grotto here is a modification of the one at Lourdes. It was donated by Reverend Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pennsylvania.
The wisdom of raising the subject (Technocracy) at the present time may well be questioned because it has introduced a disturbing element in an already sorely tried world.—Cardinal Hayes.
Will Fill Vacancy Created By Fr. Raemers’ Withdrawal.
Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, a professor of philosophy for the past five years at Notre Dame, has withdrawn from the University.
He will leave soon for the west where he will take up his duties as general Chairman and secretary of the international Marian Congress to be held at Portland, Oregon, next summer.
Father Raemers’ place in the Department of Philosophy will be filled by the Dr. • Francis McMahon, of Washington, D. C. He assumed his duties as professor yesterday morning.
Dr. McMahon received his master’s and doctor’s degrees from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., after which, by reason of having won a traveling scholarship, he spent a year abroad studying at several European universities.
Prior to receiving his doctorate, he served as instructor on the faculty of the Catholic University, and has taught during three summer sessions at the College of Our Lady of the Lake, San Antonio, Texas.
DR. RYAN TO SPEAK HERE
(Continued from Page 5)
Director of the Department of Social Action, National Catholic Welfare Conference.
Not only in the field of teaching is Father Ryan known. He has contributed much of a sociological nature, and is the author of several moral treatises. Often during his professorship at Catholic University, Father Ryan has been called upon by federal officials for his valuable opinions on current problems. He has given his advice on such major issues as prohibition, and the present one of the economic strife. He has also served on the membership of several national arbitrary -boards.
Of Dr. Ryan, Carlton J. H. Hayes, in the American Political Science Review, writes: “He is a master of clarity, precision, and sanity. Primarily an economist, he writes not in the jargon of the professional, but so simply as to be immediately apprehended by the laymen.”
February 10, 1933
Thirteen
ST. VINCENT DE PADL GROUP ORGANIZED HERE
Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C. Presides at First Meeting.
John Galsworthy Dies But Leaves His Great “Saga”
By James C. Munn
A meeting of students interested in joining the St. Vincent de Paul society was held in the basement of Walsh Hall last Friday night at 8 o’clock.
Rev. John C. Kelley,. C.S.C. Will be glad to explain.
Reverend John Charles Kelley, C.S.C., presided over the meeting and gave a short history of the society and an explanation of its work.
Father Kelley stated that the society was started two centuries ago by Frederick Ozanam in Paris. It was organized for university men and is strictly a lay group. The work done by the conferences of the society is usually carried on by the free will offerings of the members and the donations of other people. The aim of the society is to help the needy in a material and a spiritual way. There is no field of charity to which its activity does not extend.
Thirty Hand In Names
Thirty of the men present at the meeting handed their names in to Father Kelley. They will work in conjunction with some of the South Bend conferences. Last Sunday ten of them went to the meeting of the St. Patrick Church Conference and ten to the St. Joseph Church Conference. Father Kelly said, “I hope the society will grow slowly and solidly from this number.”
The work of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in the United States is reported in the Catholic Charities Review. Father Kelley will be glad to explain the aims and work of the society to anyone who might be interested. He asks them to call on him at his room in Walsh Hall.
John Galsworthy, famous English author of the memorable “Forsyte Saga” and other works, who died last week began his brilliant career at the insistence of his fiancee. He said: “If one has been brought up at an English public school and university, is addicted to sport and travel, has a small independent income, and is a briefless barrister, one will not take literature seriously, but one might like to please her of whom one was fond. I began. In two years I wrote nine tales. They had every fault.”
Nobel Prize Winner
From such an inauspicious background Galsworthy developed into one of the most unique and significant writers of modem times—his success culminating, shortly before his death, in the award of the 1932 Nobel Prize for Literature, which, because of serious illness, he found impossible to accept in person.
More than any other English author of recent times, Galsworthy presented typical portraits of the English of his generation. Although at first he looked upon his writing from the viewpoint of a dilettante, as time went on he became the most serious of artists and the master of the most deft, graceful English of the times. He was as popular in America—for which he had a great fondness—as he was in his native England.
“Forsyte Saga” Best
The “Forsyte Saga,” of course, represents Galsworthy’s chief literary effort. This great, probably classical, series began in 1901 with the publication of The Salvation of a Forsyte, to be followed two years later by Man of Property which became increasingly popular throughout the years, and might be called the first real Forsyte book. During the next 15 years, up to 1918, Galsworthy made no addition to the Saga. He occupied himself during this period with the writing of plays and other stories.
He had intended never to return to the Forsytes, but after 1918 he said; “. . . they began to liven up again and the whole thing then came on with a rush—six books and four interludes full of them.” Outstanding in this new spurt were Indian Sum
mer of a Forsyte, In Chancery, Awakening, and To Let. The interludes, together with a Man of Property, were published as “The Forsyte Saga.”
Beginning in 1924, Galsworthy started to produce one of the greatest groups of Forsyte titles—The White Monkey, which was to be followed in rapid succession by Silent Wooing, The Silver Spoon, Passerby, The Swan Song, and On Forsyte ’Change. After this remarkable collection, Galsworthy declared that he had positively given up the Forsytes. “One can’t keep on with that sore of thing indefinitely, especially after one has killed his principal character.”
His “Saga”—An Institution
London newspapers considered this announcement as a matter of the utmost importance in the day’s news— streaming headlines bearing the legend, “Soames Forsyte Dies!” was carried in all English papers. The Forsyte Saga had become definitely a national institution in England. But in his next two titles—which were to be his last—Maid in Waiting and Flowering Wilderness, he found it impossible altogether to throw off the influence of the Forsytes for they move in the background of these last books. The main characters, however, are not Forsytes — which indicates that Galsworthy was at least partly sincere in his attempt to be done with his old figures—however difficult he found it.
At his death he had partly completed a new book. Whether this will be published has not been determined. Also, he had on hand a large bulk of unpublished manuscripts, which in due time may be printed. At any rate, John Galsworthy produced works of sufficient quality to make him long remembered as one of the great novelists of modem times.
Theses Typed
Seniors in any of the colleges of the University who desire to have their theses typed are invited to submit their manuscripts to Miss Margaret Zoss, 910 East Miner street, South Bend. Satisfactory work at current rates is assured.
3
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SEMINARY STOREHOUSE
IS DAMAGED BY BLAZE
Fire Department Is Called From South Bend.
A light snow was falling at 5:15 Tuesday morning—when a student at Holy Cross discovered a fire in a small storehouse behind the Seminary. He notified Fr. Joseph McAllister, C.S.C., and an alarm was sent in immediately for the South Bend fire company.
The seminarians then wheeled the fire-hose, kept on the premises, to a fire plug, about 50 yards from the building. Another hose, but smaller, was attached to the rear of the Seminary, and the two streams were directed at the blaze within the shed. About 5:25 the first of the fire trucks arrived—the others at several minute intervals. The falling snow, the five inch blanket which already covered the cinder roadway, and the darkness of the hour, made progress slow as the fire trucks attempted to traverse the campus.
“Pros” Finish Work
When the firemen arrived the evident fire was under control, but a new blaze cropped out from across the room. The professionals took charge of the situation, and accomplished its final extinction. .
One theory of the origin and progress of the fire is that an over-heated pip ignited some gunny sacks full of potatoes, the fire then spreading to a wooden wall partition.
This marks the second time in less than three weeks that it has been necessary for the South Bend fire department to answer a call from the Notre Dame campus.
GERMAN CATHOLIC LIFE
(Continued from Page 7)
dowed for the purpose of training young medical students for this work.
“The road-crosses found throughout the rural sections of Germany are indicative of the religious fervor of the populace. The devout farmer takes off his hat when passing these shrines; w’omen and children decorate them with flowers from the fields, and often kneel there to say prayers,” concluded Dr. Menge.
Prof. Buckley Leaves On Mid-West Speaking Tour
During the past week, Professor Louis F. Buckley, Department of Economics, has been making a tour of centers in the mid-west speaking to students in various high schools.
Mr. Buckley’s itinerary includes high schools in Peoria, Kewanee, Moline, Rock Island, and Galesburg, Illinois, and Davenport, and Burlington, Iowa. He will return to the University next Monday.
New Jersey Club Holds Meet In Law Auditorium
Thirty members of the New Jersey Club were present at a meeting of that organization held in the auditorium of the Law Building Monday evening. Sabby Addonizio, president of the club, was in charge of the meeting.
A general discussion of business activities took place. Assessments for Dome pictures were made and several motions were adapted by the members.
Many New Books on Religion, History, And Literature Included In Library Addition
Books in the field of religion, history and literature are more numerous among the new additions to the University library than those in any other field.
The list is as follows:
Religion: Lourdes—by Georges Ber-trin; Christendom in Dublin—by Gilbert Keith Chesterton; God the Redeemer—by Charles G. Herzog, S.J.; According to Cardinal Newman—by John Henry Newman, cardinal; Contemporary Church History (1900-25) —by Orazio M. Premoli.
Religious Biography: St. John of the Cross—by Father Bruno of Jesus-Mary; Saint Elizabeth, Sister of St. Francis—by Elizabeth von Schmidt-Pauli.	'
History: The Lost Empire of the Itzaes and Mayas—by Theodore Arthur Willard; Pioneer Days in Arizona—by Francis Cummings Lockwood; Fall of the German Empire— by R. P. Lutz; Taps—by Theodore Roosevelt; Can America Stay at Home?—by Frank Herbert Simonds;
N.D. REPRESENTED ON DETROIT NEWSPAPERS
Journalism Grads Employed On “Times,” “Free Press.”
News concerning two of Notre Dame’s graduates in journalism, Ray Girardin and Patrick McDougall, was received at the University in a letter from Royce B. Howes, assistant city editor of the Detroit Free Press, to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism.
Mr. Howes, whose trip by plane to speak to the Press club last month was arranged by Mark E. Nevils, ’26, wrote in part:
“. . . Ray Girardin is one of the pieces of heavy artillery in the Times (Detroit) camp . . . Ray was the only newspaper man to be admitted to the Ohio penitentiary at Columbus while the mutiny and fire were in progress . . . he was permitted to sit in at the prisoner’s executive sessions while terms of surrender were drawn up.”
Patrick McDougall, the other alumnus mentioned in Mr. Howes’ letter, has been on the Free Press staff for a number of years as a police and general assignment reporter.
Our Times, 1904-1914, v. 4.—by Sullivan.
Historical Biography: Talleyrand —by Duff Cooper; Hoover and His Times—by Edwin Emerson; Roger Williams, New England Firebrand— by James Emanuel Ernst; Charles Carrol of Carrollton (1737—1832)—by Joseph Gurn; The Three Pelicans— by Styron.
Economic History: Fighting Business Depressions—by Roger W. Babson; A Guide Through World Chaos —by G. D. Cole; A Practical Problem for America—by Henry Hazlitt; Dan-■ ger Spots in the World Population— by Warren S. Thompson.
Literature: The Golden Booh of Italian Poetry—by Lauro de Bosis; Sidelights on Neiv London and Neiver York—by Gilbert Keith Chesterton; Reading, Writing and Remembering —by Edward V. Lucas; The Neu-Poetry (1932 edition)—by Harriet Monro.
Literary Biography: Emily Dick-(Continued on Page 30)
February 10,^1933
Fifteen
THEATRE TALK
Roger Beirne-^.^
WILL RESUME “DOME” PHOTOGRAPHY MONDAY
The trend of realism in the theatre has reached its suicidal extreme. Having exploited what there was of an artistic realism, theatrical carpet baggers now cultivate the muck of the pathological and lascivious extreme for their sensational filth. That the American theatre has suffered is apparent, for very little in a positive, creative form has come to life out of this school. Instead, the ranks of those who considered the theatre as a synonym for immorality have been doubled and redoubled since the war.
Art Excludes Immorality
Immorality and art cannot be compromised. No other art, of course, is as open to misguidance as the theatrical art. But no other art is as quick to show its betrayal. And the theatre has always had its market-place venders who commercialize on the opportunity for vulgar display appeal. At present, with their excuse of realism, they have put the stage and screen in its most depraved state.
The many noble traditions and the many sincere people in drama are of a sufficient strength to outlast such transient disloyalty. The loyalist can win back their spurs of control, and speed the return of a healthy theatre if the theatre-going public will cooperate. The following extract from the Ave Maria of Jan. 28 offers a platform.
Ave Maria Plank
“Father Joseph A. McCaffery urges members of the Holy Name Society, St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York, to rid New York of its indecent theatricals. A very wholesome appeal. The Holy Name men of Greater New York Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago, San Francisco; Catholic men, women, boys, girls of these cities or of any cities, or of towns, villages, country districts—members of Catholic societies or not—can respond effectively by exercising virtue through omission. Will they? The unclean, irreligious, scoffing, play or picture advertises itself through trade euphemisms. Are Catholic men, women, boys, girls spirtually selfish enough to practice virtue for their own—not for virtue’s sake? Will they refuse to patronize obscenity, irreligion, so as to keep their minds clean and reverent? Helping ourselves religiously is the noblest expression of self-help.
And we help others too, thereby, through good example. Will we? Just answer for yourself. What picture— if any—are you planning to see tomorrow evening?”
Galsworthy’s Contributions
Storm-tossed Indiana does not look capable of being the very gracious host it once was to John Galsworthy. But the proud facts remain that Galsworthy saw his must successful play with George Arliss in the title role of “Old English” one evening in Indianapolis. Galsworthy visited America many times and saw most of his own plays presented here. Galsworthy’s contribution to this country’s stage is a very high one. Fourteen of his plays, produced between 1907 and 1928 were gratefully given tremendous hearings. Three of the outstanding stars of the day owe part of their artistic purses to Galsworthy plays.
Ethel Barrymore, in introducing the British dramatist to America, introduced her ability to play a role other than “a Barrymore.” As the charwoman in “The Silver Box” in 1907 this noted actress first proved her wide artistic range.
Another Barrymore, John, also -.turned the tables on confinement roles in playing “Justice” by Galsworthy. It was the occasion of his change from comedian parts to a serious role. Galsworthy, by his play vehicle “Escape,” elevated higher in stellar regions one Leslie Howard.
Indiana may well boast of an evening on the historical papyrus of theatrical movements.
Lecture Today in Law Building
A lecture on “Radio Programs and Advertising” will be given this afternoon at 3:15 in the auditorium of the Law Building by John Glen Sample of the Black, Decker and Sample Advertising Company of’ Chicago. To emphasize and simplify his points, Mr. Sample will use exhibits. The lecture is for members of the College of Commerce, particularly for students interested in the different phases of Advertising.
Eight Nazi students have been punished by the Senate of Breslau University for their part in a riotous protest against Prof. Cohn, a Jewish professor in the university.
Last Chance For Pictures Will Be Next Week.
By John Conley
This is the last announcement to be made concerning Dome photography. The photographer will be on the campus from Monday until the latter part of the week.
Club presidents have been notified as to the time appointed for their group pictures, and it is necessary to appear at the scheduled time because a second date will not be issued.
Snap Shot Contest Again
Cards have been sent to the members of the faculty who have not had a sitting, and the Dome respectfully requests the cooperation of these men in order that a complete Administration section may be printed this year.
All lettermen who did not have their picture taken in uniform last fall may do so by putting in their appearance at Walsh hall basement some time before Thursday. Only thirteen pictures are in the hands of the sports editor, and it is imperative that he have the remainder to finish his section for the annual.
Next week’s issue of The Scholastic will carry an announcement in regard to the Dome’s annual snapshot contest. Instruction as to the rules, regulations, and date limits will be published at that time. It is expected that some excellent views will be received as a result of the recent snowfall.
Economics Seminar Will Hold Meeting Tuesday
The Economics Seminar will hold a meeting in the auditorium of the Law Building Tuesday evening at 8:00 o’clock. Professor William Downey of the Department of Economics will preside at the meeting.
The members of the seminar will be addressed by Francis L. Linton, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, who will read a paper on a current economic problem.
A “professor” Manuel Rodriguez is under arrest in Seville, Spain, charged with operating a school to teach young boys how to make bombs. Some of his students were sent to reform schools.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
Johnson Evaluates Plans
Proposed for Farm Relief
By Walter Johnson
Efforts at farm relief have been directed toward three ends, improved credit, organization of the farmer, and surplus control, the three most needed measures in our present disastrous situation.
The first, attempted through Federal Farm Loan Banks and the Reconstruction Corporation, has given the farmer low interest rates and saved many small banks from failure, yet, on the whole, has been rather ineffective. Credit is improved, but the plan is more of a palliative than a remedy.
Organization Is Difficult
Organization, promoted through Farm Cooperative Organizations, has proven equally difficult. In small areas, with centralized population, moderate success has been possible, but, generally, while a majority of farmers may limit their crops and thus improve prices, the minority who refuse to benefit equally, at the expense of their neighbors, create a situation repugnant to the human idea of justice. Unfortunately, selfishness and individuality have vitiated possible benefits of organization.
Governmentally enforced control of surplus products has been the most popular form of proposed relief. Its purpose is to enable the fanner to satisfy domestic demand for his product at a price assured him through the protective tariffs, then to sell only-his surplus abroad, at the world prices. Four proposals have been outstanding.
Proposed Remedies
First, the original McNary-Haugen Bill, which provided for the farmer selling his whole crop to the middleman, owner of marketing facilities, at a price set arbitrarily by the Farm Board, a price high, enough to cover cost of production, plus a living wage. The middleman would then sell to domestic consumers exclusively, at this artificially high American price— dumping what remained, at cut prices, abroad. His loss on the transaction would be computed, assessed on the fanner by a government “Equalization Fee,” and refunded. Coolidge vetoed this bill on the grounds that it would discourage diversification, encourage overproduction, and subsidize the middleman.
Then came the Export Debenture Bill, its purpose the same, but attacking the problem from a different angle. A debenture or bonus was to be given to the farmer on all crops exported — a sum which, in addition to the world rate, would give him his cost of production. The debenture, to be paid through a general tax. Thus, being assured a fair price through exporting, farmers would refuse to sell at home for less than that amount; domestic demand being inelastic, American consumers would be forced to pay. Hoover, however, vetoed the Export Debenture Bill, mainly on the grounds that it demanded an undesirable increase in taxation.
Marketing Act
Finally McNary and Haugen presented their Agricultural Marketing Act, which provided for cooperative marketing of their crop by farmers themselves, through self-owned selling machinery. The Farm Board was to finance this plan, under which individual farmers would bring their produce to elevators owned by the cooperative, and there receive immedi-’ately, eighty per cent of a specified price. The crop would be marketed as under the other plans, surplus sold abroad, loss figured, and what remained of the deducted twenty per cent returned to the farmer.
This bill was passed by Congress, and went into effect — local farm banks furnishing, with crops as security, money for the initial payments. However, before the store wheat could be sold, prices broke and the small banks were caught, loans made and their security rapidly depreciating. The Farm Board stepped in immediately to peg wheat prices high enough to allow the banks opportunity to get out from under. In doing so it was forced to buy up over two hundred million bushels of wheat —and has spent the last three years trying to liquidate without breaking the market. Wheat was given to China, exchanged with Brazil for coffee, and finally given to the poor. Needless to say, the Agricultural Marketing Act was short lived.
Most recent of the farm relief proposals, one now under consideration in the legislatures, is Roosevelt’s (Continued on Page 32) ■
TOBIN, O’KEEFFE READ PAPERS TO SCIENCE MEN
Treat Vitamins And Phobias At Academy Meeting.
Andrew E. O’Keeffe, senior in Science, and Richard B. Tobin, Science junior, read papers at the meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science last Monday evening.
O’Keeffe’s paper, entitled “The Vitamins,” was a discussion of the five vitamins, A, B. C. D, and E. The chemical composition and properties were entered into in detail. The diseases occasioned by the lack of the various vitamins were also enumerated.
Gives Structural Formulas
“The vitamins,” he stated, “form a separate class of chemical compound not because they are related, but because they differ from all previously known food constituents in being organic, small in quantity, and yet necessary.”
The structural chemical formulas for such compounds as B-Ionone and geronic acid, as well as the proposed formula of Vitamin A were presented by the speaker.
“Some Considerations of Fears and Phobias” was the subject of Tobin’s address. The neurotic conditions arising from these mental obsessions were treated from the point of the psychiatrist. •
The case history of a patient afflicted with agoraphobia, the fear of public places, and claustrophobia, the fear of narrow, confined places was included in the talk.
Defines Phobia
“A phobia,” the speaker stated, “is conventionally defined as the intense and persistent morbid dread of some harmless object or class of objects. The patient is overwhelmed suddenly and evidences all the signs of fear despite the fact that he fully appreciates, meantime, that there is no reason for fear, and has a full understanding of the character of his obsessions.” .
The method of treatment termed reeducation and 'the common fears such as erythrophobia, the fear of blushing, aerophobia, the fear of being in high places, and other phobias were discussed.
February 10, 1933
Seventeen
FR. RAEMERS ADVANCES WITH TRANSLATIONS
Completes One Volume; Three Others Out Soon.
One new book translated from the French by the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers is now ready for distribution, and three more are to be published soon. Father Raemers has received much commendation in the past from leading critics for his translations.
Volume three of A Compendium of Theology, translated from the French of the Very Reverend J. Berthier, is now ready, and volume four will soon follow.
Translates Nuys’ Cosmology
Father Raemer’s translation of the monumental Cosmology of Canon Nuys, the Belgian authority considered outstanding in the field of cosmology today, will be published by the Century company of New York within a few weeks. This 1,500 page volume will cover the subject from beginning to end, that will be more in the nature of a reference book than a text.
The preface to Cosmology will be written by Dean Edward A. Fitzpatrick of the Marquette graduate school.
The first volume of the English translation of History of the Church, by Dom Poulet, O.S.B., of Solesmes Abbey, in France, is to appear later this year. The preface to this two volume history will be written by Father Lord, former lecturer in history at Harvard who became a member of the Church some years ago. Father Lord is one of the nation’s foremost Church historians.
Announce Hours of Library For College of Commerce
The attention of Commerce College students is called to the business hours of the Commerce library, located in the south-west corner of the second floor of the Hurley building.
The library is open on Mondays, Wednesdays, an<T~Fridays from four to six; on Tuesdays and Thursdays from eleven to twelve, and from twelve-thirty to one-thirty; and on Saturdays from eleven to twelve.
Notre Dame’s Fame In Science Research Spreads
The football season with all its attendant clinics and post-discussicns has ended, the basketball season is tapering to a close, while the track has not yet begun in earnest. The Christmas festivities have passed, and the recountings of them have grown somewhat threadbare; while the new (and glittering, say the chairmen) social season is still in the future. The semester examinations though not forgotten, are gone, and only feverish averaging on the backs of old envelopes remains to mark their passing. All is quiet on the snow-blanketed campus.
Science Hall Works On
But in one section of the campus, there is no surcease of toil, no quiescence of effort. Despite the season and the weather, work goes on. There is no advertisement of the work, and few, if any dining-room conversations dwell upon it. Very few students know what is going on behind the blank windows of Science and Chemistry Halls. But the workers are not striving for praise. They are men against death, and their reward is success, and the acknowledgment of those who are benefitted by their experiments. They ask nothing more, but we, in a small way, are going to show some of the reasons why Notre Dame is noted in important scientific gatherings.
Home Of Two Publications
In Science Hall, contributed to by nationally famous members of the faculty, The Midland Naturalist, a foremost magazine of natural history, is edited. For the past twenty-five years, this magazine has been sent out from the Notre Dame post office. There is also a chemical periodical, edited by graduates and students of the University, which, though small, is read in many laboratories. The Catalyzer is intended to be merely a student magazine, but its fame has gone abroad.
Not content with writing about the activities of others, scientists are continually working in many lines of endeavor. Prof. James A. Reyniers, bacteriology professor of the Science school, having completed his revolutionary single cell apparatus, is now engaged in bacterial work wtih the manipulator. The micromanipulator
was demonstrated at the recent Indiana Academy of Science meeting and met with instant approval: With Professor Reyniers, are assistants working on several tedious researches into the bacteriological field.
In the field of zoology, Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, renowned entomologist, is busy studying microscopic fossil remains, and, at the same time, is pursuing his researches in the study of insects. Father Wenninger is an authority in parasitology, and a contributor to many magazines, among them the most notable being Fortune.
Father Nieuwland’s Inventions
Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. is the most famous of the Chemistry department. His discovery in synthetic rubber is well-known, and so too are his more recently announced discoveries in a new corrosion-resisting finish, or synthetic drying oil. Father Nieuwland is the director of research in organic chemistry, and is well known in the chemical world.
The Metallurgical department has recently inaugurated a program of research in connection wtih a commercial corporation to obtain statistics on malleable cast iron. It is expected that this research will prove to be of a highly practical nature.
And so we have a small portion of the inside story of those scientists who are making the University of Notre Dame College of Science famous for research.
Scrip Money is Accepted at Illinois Wesleyan
Bloomington, Ill.—Illinois Wesleyan College has taken another step in its efforts to help students go through college without cash. It has agreed to accept from students coming from families of Chicago teachers, payment of tuition in scrip and tax anticipation warrants issued by the schools of Chicago.
Last fall the college took the lead in helping sons and daughters of farmers to attend college by agreeing to accept farm produce in exchange for tuition, room, and board.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
NOSEY PEOPLE!
A number of new clubs have made their appearance on the Southern University campus. One of the silliest of these is the “Sisters of the Smelling Salts,” the object of which is to banish •seriousness. Members must pledge themselves never to have a serious moment.
V
CO-EDUCATORS!
The directory at the University of Minnesota has checks before the names of all unmarried profs, for the benefit of the interested co-eds.
V
LET’S FIND THE AVERAGE.
Results of a survey at the University of Washington prove that the average student carries more money in his pocket than the average professor. At the same time, the professor’s secretary carries more than the two combined.
V
THE WEST IS STILL WOOLLY!
The Ag Club at the University of Wyoming plans to ban corduroy pants on the campus in favor of the wool dealers of the district.
V
JUNIOR PROMENADERS.
Over two-thirds of the students enrolled at the University of Paris are Americans.
V
OH PROFESSOR?
An English prof at the Ohio State University recommends that college students read more fairy tales.
V
BLACKBELLED!
All professors at the University of Kansas who keep their classes after the bell has rung are placed on a black list.
V
TECHNOCRACY!
Embarrassed over his inability to blow fancy “rings,” a student of Northwestern university has lifted his social prestige by inventing an automatic smoke-ring blower.
The apparatus consists of an old cracker box with a hole pierced in one end. The machine is filled with smoke, the box is tapped, and beautiful rings issue from the vent. Such is the age of technocracy!
NERGS TO YOU!
One morning a week, senior students of the Economic class at the U. of Rochester are furnished free lunches by the professor in charge. Do those students in favor of Technocracy receive ham and erg sandwiches?
V
OUI!
Northeastern University has a dance orchestra composed of students, which has the intriguing name of “The Bacchanalians.” Any dance at which they play must be a revel-ation, riest-ce pas ?
V
WHAT IS IT?
After flunking an English composition course at Butler University, a student wrote an adventure book for boys which has already earned more than twice the yearly salary of the English prof. There must be a moral here.
V
A NEW SEMESTER
At the beginning of the second semester, which is the last for the Seniors, the second for the Freshmen, and just another half year’s work for the Juniors and Sophomores, it would be well for all to consider what has been accomplished in the past semesters and what is still to be accomplished in the future.
Only by reflection and by rendering a just judgment on the points in which we have failed in the past can we hope to attain any degree of success in our future work. Education has been defined sundry times as the training which makes our weaknesses work for our own advantages. There is truth in this analysis of education. A man is generally not handicapped by his good qualities but by his defects. If a student learns to make his defects aid him, how much more is he fitted to attain the goal of his ambition ?
During the coming semester we shall all find it profitable to analyze our own defects. We must know them thoroughly before we can hope to subvert them to our own good. After we know them, we have the means and the time at our disposal to find the ways in which they can aid us.—The St. Bona Venture.
February 10, 1933
Nineteen
i
MONOGRAM MAULING
Masquerading under the name of “Initiation” the Monogram Club’s week- of perverted physical expression is again in full swing. The Scholastic, no doubt, will be said to be encroaching on territory outside its province, but it prefers to believe that the activities of any organization on the campus furnish matter for editorial and student concern whenever those activities exceed the bounds of reason, common sense, and ordinary human behavior.
The first point of contention concerning the Monogram initiation is based on the fact that the rites are completely out of harmony with the purpose of the organization. Article 2 of the original constitution of the club states: “The Notre ,-Dame Monogram Club shall be to nourish a special spirit of regard for the monogram ... to foster a spirit of loyalty in the hearts of those who uphold the athletic prestige of the Gold and Blue.”	,
“A special spirit of regard ...” When athletes, in the middle of their competitive seasons, are put through seven days on the receiving end of a distorted notion of humor, there can be no “special regard” for the men devising the program, nor for the monogram that they are, apparently, worthy to wear.
“A spirit of loyalty ...” And to what? Athletic prestige is upheld by courage that finds its expression through legitimate channels of football, baseball, basketball, and track, not by the courage that wields a length of inch-thick plank on a “candidate” who cannot, because of the press of numbers, register any reaction other than resignation. This latter is courage of the sort that sends a football player down on his heels when the situation in a game seems the most hopeless; that causes a pitcher, already out of condition because he is out of training, to lose all effectiveness when runners are on base and a good hitter is at bat. It is not the courage that made the Fighting Irish famous and that was in turn made famous by the Fighting Irish.
The Scholastic thinks that the men respon
sible for the conduct of the initiation, viewing it solely as a matter of personal expediency, would see the potential danger of their activity. Accidents have occurred at similar performances elsewhere; a fortunately mild preview was shown here last spring. It is not to be expected that the complete absence of accidents is to continue: the law of averages will operate even in these matters.	'
We feel satisfied that the number of the club so involved is in the minority, but the fact remains that those in charge of the initiation have it within their power to dispense ■with possible physical injury and any future hospital episode. In urging a revamping of the initiation procedure, The Scholastic feels that it is expressing the reasoned opinion of the majority of Notre Dame men, including the thinking element of the Monogram Club itself. The present practice is totally at variance with Notre Dame ideals and traditions.
V
NOBLE JUNIOR GESTURE
After hearing that the Juniors were still charging five dollars for their Prom and fifteen for their class pin we had begun to wonder just how numbed the Class of ’34 was to these depression times.
The announcement on the part of the third-year men, however, that all Prom profits are to go to Bengal sheds a somewhat different light on the whole matter.
From what we know about the situation in India a few hundred dollars will look like a perpetual endowment fund. And from what we know about class finances, all dance profits might just as well go to charity. The idea of establishing some sort of sinking fund to protect the folloving year’s class in care of loss is rather antiquated. We have never heard of a Cotillion or a Prom or a Ball that didn’t pay for itself,—and if ever there came one, some ingenious class leader certainly could think up a way of refunding.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Pitt Cagers Here Tomorrow
Keoganites Primed For Revenge On Panthers For Earlier Setback
FINAL INTERHALL MEET TO BE HELD MARCH 2ND
Point-A-Minute Pitt Quintet, Led by Don Smith, Threaten Clean Sweep Over Irish.
By Howard Waldron
Boasting a record of six straight victories and a season’s mark of twelve wins and two losses, the Panthers of Pittsburgh, one of the nation’s classiest quintets, will invade the Notre Dame fieldhouse tomorrow night.
This will be their second meeting of the season, Pitt having emerged victorious in the first fray two weeks ago by a score of 39-35. This game was one of the fastest and most exciting ever played at Pittsburgh. Since this Pitt game, Notre Dame has started a winning streak of three consecutive games, while Pitt has won four contests.
Pitt Out To Win
The Panthers are determined to make the Pitt subjugation of Notre Dame teams for the current season a complete one. While Notre Dame, on the other hand, with a record of eight victories and six losses, will try to avenge the previous defeat and keep alive their winning streak.
Pitt will present a team as formidable and powerful as their great quintets of 1927-28-29, which were led to victory by the famous Charley Hyatt. The present Panthers are young, but very tall and powerful. Butler, Purdue, and Indiana, two of them Notre Dame conquerors, are numbered among their victims. They also have beaten Minnesota, Army, Carnegie Tech, Fordham, Temple, Georgetown, and West Virginia. They were defeated in a close game by Northwestern and by one point in the Duquesne contest. Notre Dame holds an even break with Northwestern,
having won one and lost one this year.
Captain Don Smith, who is six
Johnny Baldwin
For him a busy evening with Don Smith.
feet, two inches in height, is the leading scorer and key man of Doc Carlson’s fast breaking attack. During his first two years on the varsity, he played at guard. But, because of his fast dribbling and accurate shooting, Carlson changed him to a forward post this season. The worth of this (Continued on Page 31)
Preliminaries on February 20th and 27th; Name Coaches.
By Nick Connor
The finals of the annual inter-hali track meet will be held this year on March 2nd in the gym. This meet will be in the form of a tournament. Seven halls will run off their events on Monday, February 20th, and the remaining seven halls will complete their events on the following Monday, February 27th, with the finals to be run off on Thursday, March 2nd.
In order to compete in the finals of any event one must have finished either first or second in the semifinals. Winners of the first three places in the final meet will be awarded medals.
Frosh And Varsity Barred
Members of the freshmen and varsity track teams are prohibited from competing, but all other members of the University are eligible for competition. This will afford freshmen an excellent opportunity to win their numerals, for, if in the track events they are able to run under the set time, or if in the field events they are able to complete the prescribed heights and distances, they wlil be awarded a track numeral.
A coach will be assigned to each hall, every team will be given three practice sessions which will be held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings. Candidates, however, will be permitted to work out every afternoon during the varsity practice.
The seven halls that will hold elimination trials on Febraury 20th are: Howard, Brownson, Carroll, Off-Campus, Freshman, Alumni, and Walsh. The remaining seven halls competing on February 27th, will be Dillon, Morrissey, Lyons, Sorin, Corby, Badin, and St. Edward’s.
February 10, 1933
Twenty-one
IRISH CAGERS ROUT MAROON QUINT 41-26
Home Track Season Opens Tonight Against Purdue
Jordan Scores 17 Points in Easy Victory Over Chicago.
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s basketball team; which has apparently found itself after a bad mid-season slump, rushed on last Saturday night to its third straight victory by routing Chicago 39-26. The game, the first between the two schools, was played in the University of Chicago’s Field House before a crowd of £00.
Johnny Jordan Making Good
It was Johnny Jordan, in the role •_/ of a local boy making good, who kept the Irish in the game during the first half. Chicago, showing unexpected strength jumped out into an early te to five lead. Krause, the leading point gatherer for the Keoganmen thus far this season was completely bottled up; Voegele, the runner-up to Krause for scoring honors, was on the bench. So Jordan was forced to take matters into his own hands.
Playing the best game of his Notre Dame career, Johnny gathered 11 points in the first half and six in the second for a total of 17. Voegele finally entered the fray late in the first half to smooth out the Notre »	Dame attack and to aid the scoring
activities of Jordan with three baskets of his own. It was due chiefly to the efforts of these two men that Notre Dame had a lead of 18-15 at the half.
'	Irish Stretch Lead
»
'	In the first minute of the second
half, Krause was fouled and started the Irish victory march with a free throw. A moment later, he took a neat pass from Jordan and pivoted around for a spat shot. Jordan was
i	fouled and made his toss from the
charity strip. After each team had missed free throws, Captain Baldwin split the twine with a long shot from way past the center to give the Irish a 24-15 lead. After this spurt, Chicago never came within striking dis-«	tance, and the Keoganmen finished
the game with a juggled lineup composed mostly of substitutes.
Inability to keep from fouling the Notre Dame forwards sent “Chiz”
Johnny Jordan
For him a big night at home.
Evans, Parson, and Wegner to the Chicago bench on personals. Evans who is one of the highest scorers in the Big Ten Conference was one of the main cogs in the Maroon attack until his banishment.
The abliity of the Maroons to sink their tosses from the charity strip kept them within striking distance of the Irish until the Notre Dame offense began to click in its smoothest fashion early in the second half. The Maroons made 12 free throws in 20 attempts while the Irish missed nine times in 19 attempts.
Sumary:
Notre Dame (39)	FG
McGuff, f ............. 0
Voegele, i ............5
Mettler, f ............0
Jordan, f ............. 6
Alberts, f ............0
Krause, c .............2
Ferris, c .............0
Baldwin, g ............1
Newbold, g ........... 0
Crowe, g ..............0
Fehlig, g .............0
FT FTA PF Pts.
0	0	2	0
0	0	3	10
0	12	0
5	9	1	17
0	0	0	0
5	7	19
0	0	2	0
0	14	2
0	0	2	0
12	2	1
0	0	0	0
Totals ...............14	11	20	19	39
Chicago (26) Evans, f .............. Merrifield, f .........
Flinn, f ..............
Parsons, c ............
Langford, c ...........
Porter, g .............
Wegner, g .............
Offill, g .............
FG FT FTA PF Pts. 2	0	14	4
3	12	0	7
13	5	15
0	114	1
0	0	2	1	0
0	3	3	2	3
0	2	2	4	2
1	2	2	0	4
Totals .............. 7	12	19	16	26
POLE VAULT—7:30
Nicholson Sees Chance for Win Over Boilermakers; Roberts To Test Injured Leg.
Smiting from the recent defeat handed them by Marquette in Milwaukee last Saturday, the Irish track-sters plan to seek revenge on Purdue when the down state team competes here tonight. The meet will start at eight o’clock with competition in the pole vault starting half an hour earlier,
Purdue Strong
Coach John P. Nicholson expressed the belief that the local runners have an exceedingly good chance to chalk up their first win of the season at the expense of the Boilermakers.
The Purdue squad is stronger than the typical Lafayette crew but nevertheless “Nick” seems to think that the prospects of the Blue and Gold are rather bright.
In its recent encounter -with Chicago, Purdue revealed that it has a few outstanding men that bear some watching. Sandbach will be geared to prevent Fagan, Irish hurdler, from making his second consecutive victory in the 60-yard run and jump festival.
Popejoy is the leading Boilermaker mdidle distance runner. He will find King and Troy challenging his ability in the races tonight. Carter will also menace the Irish hopes.
Roberts To Run	.
The meet tonight will mark the initial 1933 appearance of Clyde Roberts in competition. His addition to the list of capable runners will considerably strengthen the well balanced Blue and Gold running department. Too much can not be expected of Roberts tonight for it will be his first attempt to bear down. However, when the squad meets the Illini tracksters at Urbana he will be a. hard man to beat.
We spend about 90 percent of our energy in combative and only about ten percent in creative effort.—Dr. Walter Rautenstrauch, Columbia University.
T wenty-two
The Scholastic
Over! A Study In Form
“TIP-OFFS” HANDBALL MEET STARTS MONDAY
First Round Doubles Pairings Announced; 17 Entrants.
'Vince Murph]/, Coach Nicholson’s sensational sophomore high jumper, demonstrates the jumping form that carried him over the bar at 6 ft. 5% in. for a neiv Marquette Gym record last Saturday. His first varsity appearance at home will be made tonight against Purdue.
The University Handball Tournament, sponsored by “Tip-Offs,” Al McGuff’s sport column in The Scholastic will begin February 13. The lack of response on the part of nonfootball men makes it necessary to have only one bracket. All doubles will be in the original bracket with the original rules applying.
Because of the press of events in the gym this week-end, the tournament will start next Monday and not Friday of this week, as stated earlier.
Delay Singles Play
The singles will not start until after the completion of the doubles playoff. It is expected that the men will put more effort into each event with this arrangement. All instructions as printed in the last issue of The Scholastic are to be followed.
The schedule is as follows: (Two men teams) Pivarnick-Canale, vs. Bowes-Mahoney; Dwyer - Daigneault, vs. LaBome-Schaeffner; Lucats-Ba-nas, vs. Smullen-Grady; Jordan-Krause, vs. O’Keefe-Young; Emmer-ling-Morrissey, vs. Frederick-Annas; Harris - Gorman, vs. Poach - Devore; Oitzinger-Levins, vs. Greeney-Jask-which. The Kozak-Palmisani team will meet the winner of the match between the teams of Giorgio-Messina, and Melinkovich-Allen, for the sixteenth place in the first round.	’
All the above mentioned matches must be played by Feb. 16.
“No Smoking*’ Rule To Be Enforced at Games in Gym
A rertiinder that the “No Smoking” regulation in the University gymnasium is to be closely observed during the remainder of the basketball and track season was issued from the office of the Prefect of Discipline this week.
This regulation is intended to serve a twofold purpose: to keep the air fresh and free from smoke for the benefit of the players, and to reduce the danger of fire to a minimum, so each student should be considerate enough to refrain from smoking during the games in the future.
Armstrong Attends Meet of National Alumni Council
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, attended the annual convention of district five, American Alumni Council, at Cincinnati, February 3 and 4. This week Mr. Armstrong is to attend the meeting of the executive committee of the American Alumni Council at Buffalo, February 10 and 11.
Secretary Armstrong is executive director of the annual convention which is to be held in Chicago next summer in conjunction with the Century of Progress exposition.
Congratulations Billy—From Notre Dame’s Shaun Rhue
From “Milestones” in Time, appearing yesterday, the following:
“BORN. To the U. S. Naval Academy’s football mascot goat, Old Bill; and a nameless nanny of the Annapolis herd, two kids, in Annapolis, Md.”
Notice!
All students holding commissions or certificates of eligibility in the Officers Reserve Corps, U. S. Army are requested to meet in Room 101 of the Commerce Building on Monday evening, February 13, at 7 p. m.
February 10, 1933
Twenty-three
INTERHALL LEAGUES OPEN WITH TEN GAMES
Close Play Mark Opening Day; Strong Teams Appear.
Marquette Track Team Outpoints Irish Thinlies
SCORE: 54 TO 32
By James F. McKeon
Ten games, six of which were decided by five points or less, were played in the opening week’s interhall games last Sunday. Only two games were forfeited, both of these being in the lightweight section of Division II.
Many of the games turned out to be thrilling affairs and considering the fact that it was the first real game of the year for all of the teams, the caliber of the play was very satisfactory.
Four of the halls are boasting winners in-both the heavyweight and the lightweight divisions.
Close Games
Morrissey defeated Badin in both divisions but both of the victories were by the narrow margins of one point; Howard defeated Walsh in the heavyweight section by a good margin and also took the verdict in the lightweight division when Walsh forfeited.
Off-Campus swamped Brownson in the heavyweight and the Off-Campus lightweights won their game without as much as warming up as the Brownson' lightweights failed to put in their appearance. Carroll looked impressive in both the heavyweight and the lightweight divisions as it defeated Freshman but it had all it could do in winning the heavyweight game by a two point margin.
Lyons and St. Ed’s put on a rather 1 slow exhibition for most of their contest. In the two middle periods how-: ever Lyons scored most of its points ■ and staved off St. Ed’s in the final : period. St. Ed’s reversed the verdict in the lightweights with a two point decision.
Morrissey Wins Two
A basket by Don Felts with a minute remaining, gave Morrissey a one-point victory over Badin in the best game of the day. Felts played a grand game throughout to lead his team to victory and was ably supported by a number of his mates. The Morrissey lightweights divided the ■ scoring among its men and also : gained a one point margin of victory.
Dillon, with Meyer and McNally as z"
(Continued on Page 26)
TIP-OFFS
_________By AI McGufl____
Get out your mush dogs and sleds men and get over to the gym tomorrow night to see one of the fastest, finest and best played games you ever saw. This Pitt, outfit is really good and the Irish are filled right up to the rim -with determination to win.
■ Johnny Jordan certainly gave his Chicago friend a real treat when he collected 7 points in the Chicago game. Keep up the good -work, John!
No wonder the University of Chicago never has any good athletic teams. Their locker rooms are decorated like a children’s play room, and their shower baths are painted in pink and green. Environment will tell.
Vic Metier played a new role in the Chicago game—water-boy.
Fans will see one of the best forwards in the game since Charley Hyatt when they get a look at this Don Smith of Pitt. He is captain this year and has collected 200 points so far. With nine games remaining on their schedule he promises to get 100 more.
In this second semester schedule the Irish have- a chance to make amends with every team that defeated them earlier in the season with the exceptions of Ohio State and Purdue.
Wouldn’t it be just too bad for Pitt if Notre Dame were to collect themselves and play like they did—individually in one or another game this season. If Voegele were to get 20 points as he did in the Albion game; Jordan 17 in the Chicago game, and Moose— well, just let him go and play a game something like he did against Army last season.
Old Danny Halpin is to be congratulated for the wonderful care he takes with the gym floor. Dan is one loyal fan Notre Dame can always count on —win or lose.
(Continued on Paso 31)
Vince Murphy Sets New High Jump Record For Gym; Shot Put Mark Also Broken.
By Edward Van Huisseling
An inexperienced Irish track squad suffered its first defeat of the current campaign last Saturday night at the hands of a ■well balanced Marquette team, 54 to 32.
Coach Nicholson expressed satisfaction with the showing made by his men considering the trying conditions under -which the festivities were held. He believes that if the meet had been on a dirt track, the Irish thinlies would have had an excellent chance to upset their rivals.
Some Jump
The Hilltoppers amassed a total of seven firsts against three for the Blue and Gold forces.
Two gym records were swept away during the course of the evening. Vince Murphy set a new mark in the high jump, soaring over the cross bar at 6 feet 5% inches. ’The record had stood since 1931 when Russell of Bradley Tech set a new high in this event.
Ronzani, all around star athlete of the Milwaukee school, accounted for the second record-breaking performance of the meet. He heaved the shot 44 feet, 9 inches. Ronzani felt that the old mark was about due to topple after standing since 1928. Freschi and Finkel captured second and third places respectively in this event.
Fagan Takes Hurdles
The half mile run was a thriller from start to finish. Troy and Ku-bash engaged in a sensational duel which ended -with the Marquette runner out in front by inches.
In the pole vault the Hilltoppers made a clean sweep, placing Shram, Roark, and Jelnik.
Fagan accounted for the second of the Irish firsts when he breasted the tape in the 45 yard high hurdles. Marquette took the two remaining places in this race.
The Notre Dame relay team, composed of Gilfoil, Bower, Gough, and (Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
A Miracle of 'Way Back When—Sorin 24, Corby 0
By Louis Hruby	.
quarterback. Sooner or later, 11 men agreed to play designated positions. Corby’s coach, optimistically ordered his first team to bring their candy bars with them and sit on the bench to watch the third string soften Sorin for the killing.
When the old feud between Sorin and Corby can actually result in the two halls sending a football team against each other, its not news its a miracle!—But, it did happen, in the fall of 1919.
For weeks the glory of Corby had gone, undaunted, to the height of the sky. A season of interhall football completed without a blemish! Yes, it was the greatest team that Corby ever sent out to represent the hall.
Stars on the team?—Why, we couldn’t even begin to mention some of them. It was just a team of stars!
Sorin Admitted Defeat (?)
But—the championship of the University had yet to be officially decided Corby had to go out, merely in uniform, and no game would have to be played. The reason? Well, according to the schedule, on the following Sunday, Sorin was due for a whitewashing. And the satisfying part about it was, that Sorin felt the same way about it!
Characteristically, Sorin had defaulted all of its games that year, and by Thursday of the week before the game, odds ran as high as 50 to one that Sorin couldn’t get six men in /uniform for the game. Friday the I odds remained the same, but jubilant i Corby fans agreed that if Sorin put four men in uniform, they’d pay 50 to one to see it done!
It all began about 8:30 Sunday morning, when the members of the Corby team were sprawled out in
MANY CROWING NEW HAIR
YOU. too. may have luxuriant hair of lustrous Equality by using HAIRMORE and GUO-
MORE.perfected by professor of chemistry at
Gonzaga U. Spokane
HAIRMORE grows hair even on bald heads; stops dandruff and falling hair; relieves scalp ailments. It is unusually penetrating and contains natural hair food. Trial size. 25 treatments, 75 cents. More than 100 treatments in a $2 bottle, in plain wrapper.
GLO-MORE. an antiseptic and stimulant shampoo, is healing and non-astringent. Use it with HAIRMORE for complete treatment and results. $1 bottle.
Send to Gilmore-Burke. Inc., Seattle, Wash., who handle royalties for the University.
front of their hall, munching popcorn and hot dogs, in a pre-game celebration.
Almost as at a command, the windows in the north wing of Sorin were flung cpen and there issued from within taunts, jeers, catcalls, and actually — challenges! (Sorin was seething, nay, literally boiling, or, if we may say so, boiling over!) Then, as if from nowhere came the cry, “we’ll be there, Corby!”
Everybody Ran
Game time. . . old Cartier Field. . . Corbyites running here, Sorinites running there. . . the rest of the school running everywhere! Corby went ■ through the formality of warming up the third team. The odds continued to soar. Here gentlemen, on the spot, the unbelievable occurred!
A closely gathered group parted, and the colors (black and black, or was it black and blue?) of Sorin were seen to emerge. The entire squad of 15 was going on the field. Two members of the Sorin delegation fought for the center position, and a selfstyled guard found himself playing
KRAUSE HOLDS LEAD; JORDAN MAKES BIG GAIN (Including Chicago Game.)
Player	*FG	FT	FTA	PCT	PF	PTS.
Krause, c			42	35	73	.479	29	119
Voegele, f			41	31	56	.554	33	113
Baldwin, g 			27	10	20	.500	29	64
Jordan, f 			25	14	28	.500	16	64
Crowe, g			13	15	25	.600	22	41
Alberts, f			 7	3	8	.375	7	17
McGuff, f-g			 6	0	1	.000	8	12
Keating, f			 4	1	3	.333	2	9
Fehlig, g			 2	0	0	.000	1	4
O’Neil, g			2	0	0	.000	0	4
Newbold, g			 0	2	5	.400	8	2
Mettler, f-g			 1	0	1	.000	3	2
Angsten, f			1	0	0	.000	0	2
Ferris, c-f-g			 0	0	0	.000	7	0
Holland, c			0	0	0	.000	1	0
Totals 			171	111	220 .	.505	168	453
Opponents 			131	111	195	.564	169	373
*FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FT A—free throws attempted; PCT—percentage of free throws made; PF—personal fouls; PTS— total points.
Somebody blew a whistle (They're still looking for him!) and things began to move. In fact they moved so fast (one, Frank Murphy of Sorin moved faster than anyone else) that in less time than you can call a spade a spade, the scorekeeper scratched his head and wrote, Sorin 6, Corby 0.
Scratched Again
He scratched his head twice again, wrote Sorin 18, Corby 0, and then went vp in the stands really to appreciate the festivities.
A fellow* by the name of Miles, (and he could travel ’em, too!) got loose behind his owm goal, and then ran the few remaining 103 yards dowm the field. (The scorekeeper didn’t even scratch his head that time. He was asleep!)
The battle went on. The most assorted varieties of kicks, heels, bloody noses, puffed eyes and skinned ears were -openly and conspicuously donated to the representatives from Corby, and when it was all over, Sorin wrent home tired but happy, Corby went home. It w’as one for the books!	-
February 10, 1983
Twenty-five
/
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
ONE VOTE AYE
In New York tomorrow the football rules committee gets together for its annual juggling of the gridiron code. Last weekend the advisory board drew up a number of tentative changes that they submitted to the smaller group for adoption.
One of those suggested changes would prohibit any offensive lineman (tackles, guards, center) from crossing the line of scrimmage on a forward pass play until after the pass is thrown.
We are completely in favor of that modification of the present rnles on the ground that it will place more premium on real defensive skill and less on Houdini-like eyes that, formerly, often were forced to pick up eligible receivers from a thundering group of five or six, all tearing down the field in dead earnest. The rule would be the obit, for the screened pass.
Screened passes were long supposed to be dead. But if we know one when we see one, it must have come to life again. The most distinct memory we have of two of the home games of the 1931 season are of screened pass plays. In one of them, a team that was being soundly trimmed came up suddenly with three sizeable gains on throws straight down the center. Reason: their center was wandering around where he shouldn’t have been.
Screening the passes is a bad offense, but there are other stunts of the same nature that are even worse. Imagine the confusion of a very able back, defending on a pass play, when an opponent, apparently coming out of a guard position for a breath of air, reaches up and grabs the pass for a score. We’ve been given to understand that it causes a very baffled, not to say futile, feeling.
Should the proposed change be adopted, it would eliminate all need for defensive backs to thumb through a program on each play to find out who was who, and then not to be sure that who was who on that play.
TRACK
The'student body will get its first chance to see the 1933 Notre Dame track team in action tonight when Purdue’s squad meets Nick’s proteges in the gym. It shouldn’t be necessary to urge attendance.
It is unquestionably true that the Irish squad i3 weaker this year than it has been for several years. But why shouldn’t it be? Enough monogram men graduated last June to stock two track teams.
In the material that is left, Nick has several outstanding performers, good enough to rule anyone away from his radiator for a couple of hours.
For instance there is Eddie King. Despite the fact that he is hardly at his best form, King is a good enough track man to meet the stiffest kind of competition without asking terms.
Easily the best high jumper ever to jump for Notre Dame is Vince Murphy, outstanding sophomore. His six foot, five and oneeighth inch jump last week is a reliable forecast of what may be expected of him.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
For evidence of great improvement under good coaching, one needs onlj-to look to Ray Troy and Jim Fagan. Fagan took a first at Marquette and Troy missed one only by inches. Troy has come from the stage of being just another runner to a man who is ready to give 2:00 a real test in the half-mile.
On the same subject of half-milers, we’re willing to venture a prediction that the Notre Dame two-mile relay team will be a mighty hard outfit to beat in the outdoor season this spring.
Clyde Roberts will be in shape by then, King should be running at his best, and out of Troy, Shields, and Joe Young, another pair should be available who will shade 2:00 in their respective legs. And 7:55 or better will win a lot of relay races.
The greater part of the population of Madrid, Spain, was surprised recently to see its first snowfall. Three inches of snow fell on the city, frightening many people who had never seen the stuff before.-
FONTAINE3LEAU SCHOOL cf NUSK
Palace of Fontainebleau, France
Famous French masters: Widor, Philipp, Dupre, Nadia Boulanger, Salignac, Litvinne, Hilda Roosevelt, Decreus, Hewitt, Bazelaire, Grandjany.
June 25 to September 25
For 1933 catalogue, address:
WALTER DAMROSCH, President of the American Committee, 119 East 19th St., New York City.
Tzventy-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 23)
INTRODUCING Fred MacBeth
standouts, had little difficulty in defeating Sorin by a 17-6 score. Sorin with Joe McCabe playing good has-ketball tried hard all the way. The Sorin lightweights upset the dope and beat the Dillonites by a 23-18 score.
There are some choice games scheduled for this Sunday. Perhaps the outstanding of all is the battle between Howard and Off-Campus in both divisions. Both of the heavyweight teams won by about the same margin last Sunday and both lightweight teams won by forfeits.
Morrissey and Dillon, both victorious in the heavyweight division last week will meet in one of the morning games and while the Dillon lightweights were defeated last week they should make it interesting for the lightweights from Morrissey.
The Lyons heavyweights winners of their first game will meet Corby which will be playing- its first game of the year. Brownson and Freshman both losers in both the heavyweight and lightweight divisions will meet and both teams will be striving hard to get out of the cellar.
Carroll and Alumni will meet in the filial game of the day. Carroll won its game in both weights last Sunday and should test the mettle of the junior hall which incidentally will be out to duplicate its football championship of last fall. Badin and Walsh drew byes this week.
The complete schedule for Sunday is as follows:
Group I—Lyons vs. Corby, 8:30 a. m.; Morrissey vs. Dillon, 9:30 a. m.; Sorin vs. St. Edwards, 10:30 a. m.; Badin, bye.
Group II—Howard vs. Off-Campus, 1:30 p. m.; Brownson vs. Freshman, 2:30 p. m.; Carroll vs. Alumni, 3:30 p. m.; Walsh, bye.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Lyons 12; St. Edwards 3.
Lyons Hall winner of the heavyweight title last year gave evidence that it will have to be considered in the final reckoning of this year’s competition as it defeated St. Edwards by the score of 12-3 in the opening game last Sunday.
The game itself turned out to be out of the ordinary in that all of the scoring was done in the middle (Continued on Page 27)
By Leslie Raddatz
Being captain of the Notre Dame track team should be quite an honor in itself, and would be enough to make the average student feel that he had been a success at college. In addition to being track captain, how-
ever, Fred MacBeth was treasurer of the junior class last year, a member of the 1932 Dome staff, is now on the sports staff of The Scholastic, and to top it all off, received a ninety-three average last semester.
Canadian Olympic Star
When Mac came to Notre Dame he was not unheralded. Alex Wilson and Brant Little had preceded their Canadian Olympic teammate by one year. Wilson had already shown Notre Dame w-hat to expect of Canadian Olympic men, and much was expected of MacBeth. In the freshman year he won his numerals easily in cross-country and track without losing in any meet. Running independently with the Notre Dame relay team at the Canadian Indoor Championships, he won the 600.
The sophomore year brought him his monogram in the first meet of the season, the Millrose Games, and a record during the remainder of the season that was consistently good if not brilliant. Last year he ran the quarter indoors; in addition he was a member of the mile relay team—MacBeth, Wilson, Kelly, Vettel—which holds the gym record here. Outdoors he ran the low hurdles. This year with Wilson gone, he is the mainstay in the middle-distance events.
Mac was bom in Hamilton, Ontario in 1909. He ran for the first time in 1927; in that year he won the Canadian schoolboy championship in the quarter mile. The following year he made a record in the quarter mile that still stands in Canada, won the Pennsylvania interscholastic quarter at Philadelphia, and finished a step behind Alex Wilson to make the Canadian Olympic team.
Ran Despite Injury
En route to the Olympics at Amsterdam, he fractured his ankle practicing on the boat. In spite of the fact that his ankle was in a cast, he made the second round in the 400 meter event at Amsterdam. The injury kept him from competing in any of the other meets in Europe that summer. In the fall of’ 1929, his ankle healed, and he came to Notre Dame.
In high school Mac earned ten monograms — three in track, two in football, two in basketball, two in hockey, and one for rifle shooting. Stiffer competition in the other sports and more attention to his studies have kept Mac from engaging in any sport other than track at Notre Dame.
A Commerce man, he intends to work for the Bell Telephone Company of Canada after he receives his B. C. S. cum laude next June.
Mac' is an example of an athlete who feels that athletics should not be his only activity in college. As a result he was secretary of the French club in his sophomore year; he wrote well of track for the Dome last year, and his “On Down the Line” is one of the most interesting features of the present Scholastic.
A well-rounded student, conservative, versatile, Mac is the type of athlete that Notre Dame likes to turn out.
Egyptian cosmetics, 5,000 years old, are included in .an exhibit of the New York Historical Society, which has just reassembled and reinstalled its large and valuable collection of Egyptian antiquities.
When we come out of the depression, four percent of our population is going to have even more than 80 percent of our w-ealth.—Walter John King.
Felnwi-ry 10, 1933
Twenty-seven
Interhall Basketball Competition Opens In Two Campus Leagues With Ten Games
(Continued from Page 26)
two quarters of the game. Neither team could score in the first period despite the fact that they both had countless opportunities to capitalize and neither team dented the scoring column in the final eight minutes.
A brilliant third period when it scored eight points gave Lyons the win, after St. Ed’s had trailed by a 4-3 score at the half.
Caldwell opened the scoring midway in the second quarter when he sank a field goal from the side and Vairo evened it up for Lyons less than a half-minute later. Arnheiter’s free throw sent St. Edwards back into the lead but another two pointer by Vairo just before the end of the half put Lyons into the lead to stay.
Half of the third period had elapsed before there was any scoring after the resumption of hostilities. Devine -made two free throws and Crosson added two field goals in rapid order.
Morrissey 14; Badin 13.
Don Felts’ field goal from the side court with a minute of the game remaining gave Morrissey' a 14-13 victory over Badin in the first game of the year for both teams.
The game was the most thrilling of the day. With the score tied up at 12 all since early in the final period both teams were striving to break through. Felts, with plenty of time to shoot, took the ball at the sidecourt,. shot and the ball went through cleanly. Immediately after that Vettel was fouled. He made good on one of his two free throws after which Badin continually attacked but without success.
Felts’ winning shot came as a final act in which he played a leading part in Morrissey’s victory. It was he who opened Morrissey’s scoring in the second period and it was also he who sent Morrissey into the lead midway in the second period.
Badin jumped into a five-point lead in the first period while holding Morrissey scoreless. Venables opened the scoring with a field goal and Farrell sank a free throw. Vettel’s field goal ended the scoring for the period.
Felts’ field goal, two free throws by Cushing, another two pointer by Felts and one by Sullivan gave Morrissey a three point lead in the second period Venable’s field goal cut the advantage down but Paul Lesko sank one just
as the whistle denoting the end of the half was sounding.
Morrissey kept pressing the attack as the third period got under way and a basket by Gildea sent the ultimate winners into a five point lead. However a field goal by Kelly and a free throw by Hoban brought the junior hall to within striking distance before the period ended and Vettel’s two pointer after the final quarter got under way tied up the game. From here it remained for Felts field goal . to give Morrissey the advantage.
Dillon 17; Sorin 6.
Led by Frank Meyer and Ed McNally, Dillon triumphed over Sorin by the score of 17-6 in the final morning game last Sunday. "Meyer and McNally scored ten points between them and in addition both played nice floor- games.
The game was rather slow and uninteresting in spots. Sorin scored only once in the first half and then couldn’t tally again till the fourth period.
Ziepprecht opened the scoring after three minutes of the game had elapsed, with a field goal, and McNally’s field goal some three minutes later was the only other scoringin the first period.
Gleason registered Sorin’s first points with a field goal in the second period but Meyer’s basket and Tiernan’s free throw gave the fresh- " man hall a 7-2 advantage at the half.
A free throw by O’Neil and two field goals by McNally sent Dillon into a safe lead as the third period came to a close.
McCabe scored a field goal for Sorin to open the fourth quarter and Schaffter countered with a free throw for Dillon. McCabe again scored a field goal but two-pointers by Ziepprecht and Meyer of Dillon closed the scoring.
Howard 15; Walsh 7.
With Red Tobin playing the leading rote Howard defeated Walsh by the score of 15-7. Tobin scored six points which was almost enough to defeat the seniors single handed.
Howard held the lead from the start and were never pressed to any great extent. Time after time Howard broke through to score white Walsh had a hard time in splitting the closely knit Howard defense.
Pete Paskweitz of Howard scored twice from the field and once on a free throw to press Tobin for scoring honors. Frank Sandera, big Howard center, was an important cog in the juniors’ offensive.	’
Off Campus 19; Brownson 6.
Off-Campus, runnerup to Lyons in the heavyweight division last year looked impressive as it took a 19-6 decision from Brownson, Sunday afternoon.
With Palmer and Marbaugh showing the way Off-Campus was never in serious trouble. Palmer, playing a guard position, accounted for ten of his team’s points white Marbaugh added six points to his team’s total.
Stillwagon, with four points, was the outstanding Brownson man on the floor.
Carroll 22; Freshman 20.
In a battle of first year men Carroll defeated Freshman by the score of 22-20 in one of the best games of the day.
Both teams showed great promise as they battled it out. Yerly and Don-nino scored 19 points between them to clinch the game for Carroll.
The teams were evenly matched and the lead see-sawed back and forth many times.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
St. Edward’s 10; Lyons 8.
St. Ed’s defeated Lyons by the score of 18-15 in a well played game Sunday. St. Ed’s gained an advantage at the start and was never headed.
Both teams played pretty even basketball throughout with the result that the game was one of the best played of the day. .
St. Ed’s ted at the half chiefly through the fine work of Smith and Freeman. Smith gathered seven points in the course of the game and Freeman tallied four. Tourek with two field goals did the best work for Lyons.
Morrissey 10; Badin 9.
The Morrissey lightweights followed the example set by their heavyweight team and defeated Badin, also by a single point just as the heavyweights had done. The score was 10-9.
Buckley with three points was the -high scorer for Badin white Piontek played a nice floor game. The Morrissey scoring was pretty evenly dis-(C-ontinued on Page 30)
The stage is all set for target practice. The magician lifts his bow and aims an arrow at the bull’s-eye. His lovely assistant then steps in front of the target and he shoots the arrow—apparently through her—and it fixes itself in the very center of the bull’s-eye! And ,	she smiles through it all while the audience gasps.
........ - •<
It’s fun to be fooled



-a.
EXPLANATION:
The arrow which the marksman “shoots through” his assistant simply folds up into the crossbow! The arrow which is actually embedded in the target is shot by the girl herself from a belt concealed under her dress. She releases a little spring, the arrow unfolds, and shoots straight into the bull’s-eye I It is all done in a flash! So quickly the eye cannot detect the girl’s movements! To heighten the impression that the arrow has gone right through, the girl releases a ribbon from the front of her dress—the continuation, apparently, of the ribbon attached to the arrow in the target.
TOBACCOS
MATCHLESS BLEND
KEPT FRESH
HUMIDOR PACK
IN THE WELDED
Copyright, 1033, R. J. IteyniMa Tobacco Company
o.it’s more fun to KNOW
Like to see through tricks? Then let’s look at another... the illusion in cigarette advertising called “Cigarettes and Your Throat.”
The audience is told that by certain magic processes tobacco can be made as soothing as cough medicine.
explanation; The easiest cigarette on your threat is the cigarette that is made from the choicest ripe tobaccos. Cheap, raw tobaccos are, as you would naturally expect, harsh in their effects upon the throat.
If you have to consider your throat, the quality of the tobacco in your cigarette is important.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
Camels are as non-irritating as a cigarette can be because Camels use choice, ripe, tobaccos.
And because of the matchless blending of these costlier tobaccos Camels have a rich bouquet and aroma... a cool, delicious flavor.
Keep the air-tight, welded Humidor IJack on your Camels ... to assure yourself and your companions a fresh, cool smoke.
- NO TRICKS JUST COSTLIER
Thirty
The Scholastic
MARQUETTE BEATS IRISH
(Continued from Page 23)
MacBeth. won the twelve lap relay handily.
Geissman, sensational Marquette distance runner, led the field across the finish line in the two mile grind. Bower of the Irish placed third.
Ralph Metcalfe gave an exhibition of his speed when he stepped off the 45 yard dash in four and a half seconds. Noeckles wound up second and Tierney third. Tierney then went on to win the quarter mile jaunt with Captain MacBeth and Dzivinzel running a dead heat for second and third places.
Orville O’Neill won high scoring honors when he took the mile run from Eddie King. King has not rounded into condition yet but should be right on top tonight in the Purdue tangle.
The summaries:
POLE VAULT—Won by Schram (M) ; Roark, (M). second; Jelnik (M), third. Height, 12 ft.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by O’Neill (M) ; King (ND), second; Young (ND), third. Time, 4:47.6.
40 YARD DASH—Won by Metcalfe (M) Noeckels (ND), second; Tierney (M), third.
-Time, :04.5.
45 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND) ; Trost (M), second: Schoenecker (M), third. Time, :05.9.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Tierney (M) : Dzwinzel and Mac Beth tied for second and third. Time, :54.7.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Nevin (M), second: Karl and Krause (M), tied for third. Height 6 ft, 5% in. (New Gym Record.)
SHOT PUT—Won by Ronzani (M) : Freschi (ND), second: Finkel (ND), third. Distance, 44 ft. 9 in. (New Gym Record).
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Geissman (M) ; O’Neill (M), second; Bower (ND), third. Time. 10:11.2.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Kubash (M) ; Troy (ND), second; Savage (M), third. Time, 2:10.2.
TWELVE LAP RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Gilfoil, Bowdren, Gough, MacBeth). Time, 2:57.8.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule.
Friday, February 10
Corby	7:00	p.	m.	Howard
Morrissey	8:00	p.	m.	Walsh
Sorin	9:00	p.	m.	Freshman
Monday, February 13
Brownson	7:00	p.	m.	Badin
Lyons	8:00	p.	m.	Carroll
Alumni	9:00	p.	m.	Dillon
Wednesday, February 15
St. Edwards 7:00 p. m. Morrissey
Sorin 8:00 p. m. Off-Campus
Corby ' 9:00 p. m. Howard
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 27)
x tributed with Pogue, Lannon, Graves v and Sander all tallying single field* goals and Baker and Quinn each converted once for the winning margin.
Sorin 23; Dillon 18.
The Sorin lightweights sprang a big surprise by defeating Dillon by the score of 23-18; at the same time giving evidence that they may cause trouble for all of the other teams.
Crittenden with seven points was --the leading Dillon scorer and Hoffman led Sorin with seven points. In addition Quinn and Robison played outstanding games for Sorin.
Carroll 20; Freshman 15.
Carroll looked impressive as it defeated Freshman by the score of 20-15 in an exciting battle. Tobin of Carroll was the outstanding man on the floor with 11 points while Regan with eight points was outstanding for Freshman.
ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY
(Continued from Page 14)
inson Face to Face—by Mrs. Martha G. Biachi; Romantic Reber—by Hawthorne; Mary Wollstoncraft—by H. R. James.
Political Science: Ireland and Irish Emigration to the New World from 1815 to the Famine—by William Forbes Adams; The Foreign Service of the United States—by Tracy L. Lay.
Sociology: Problems in Hitman Engineering—by Frederick Alexander Magoun; Hold Your Tongue—by Morris L. Ernst; How to Raise Money —by Lymon Love Pierce.
Criminology: Missing Men — by John H. Ayres; Stealing Through Life—by Ernest Booth.
Science: The Causes of Evolution— by J. B. S. Haldane; Survival of the Fittest—by Henry S. Williams; The Social Life of the Monkeys and Apes —by Solly Tuckerman.
Commerce: The Gold Standard and Its Future—by T. E. Gregory.
Physical Education: Kicking the American Football—by Le Roy N. Mills.
Manners and Customs: To Think of Tea—by Agnes Repplier.
Advertising: Advertising—by H. W. Hess.
The Art of the Foil—by Luigi Bar-basetti.
Check these points:
Workmanship Service Convenience
^And that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
flAt Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
QSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS /
February 10, 1933
Thirty-one
PITT HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 20)
strategy is proven by his thirteen points against Notre Dame and his season’s total of over two hundred.
Claire Cribbs, the Panther center, is a husky sophomore standing about six feet two, and is a tireless player. In the Notre Dame game, before he fouled his way out of the contest, he made seven points. The renewed duel between Notre Dame’s All-American center, Ed Krause, and him should be well worth watching.
Charley Hughes, a guard, and his brother, Skippy, a forward, are two more Panther stars. Both boys stand an even six feet, and Skippy seems the better shot, having made eleven points in the last Notre Dame game as opposed to four by his older brother.
The two final members of Pitt’s first six are—Don McCamant, regular right guard, a good-looking, heady basketball player and Russ Ochsen-hirt, who alternates at guard with Charley Hughes. Ochsenhirt is very fast and a fair shot. He stands six feet two, being two inches taller than McCamant.
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Page 23)
Two great centers will come together in this Pitt contest. Clare Cribbs will match his ability and size against Moose. Moose had the upper hand in Pitt and has promised to get it again this time. Cribbs is the largest man on the Pitt outfit and he is called upon to get the ball off both baskets. And that is some job.. He left the game in Pittsburgh by the foul route but created enough trouble before leaving.
So far this season the Pitt team has averaged a point a minute. And when a team gets 40 markers a game they certainly are dangerous. If you want to see a real scrappy, determined to win, team take a look at this Pitt team. They are after the ball all the time and never let down. Fast breaking fast passing and accurate foul shooting; something we haven’t seen on our floor in some time.
The University Doubles Handball tournament will get under way this Monday. Due to the lack of response on the non-football men there will be
just one bracket and that will comprise all entrants. You can find more information in the Handball column elsewhere in The Scholastic.
To make every tournament a success someone always picks a probable winner to see just how far it goes. Well, the column has made its selection: Oitzinger and Levins is our choice. Watch them go.
The weekly progress and schedules will be in The Scholastic each week. If there is to be any changes, they will be posted in the Varsity training room and also in the balcony of the handball courts.
The column is running an extra this week—A Snozzle Klub.
Scrap-Iron Young ..............Pres.
Moose Krause........-.....Vice-Pres.
(Durante) De Mora....Star Boarder.
Santiago, Chile—Fear of a wave of communism sweeping over this country has resulted in the dismissal of more than ICO school teachers who are regarded as dangerous agitators.
Editorials in newspapers throughout the country are blaming the schools for the communistic trend.
VALENTINE DAY, Feb. 14
“Flowers”
appropriate for the day
South Bend Floral Co. 114 South Michigan Street We Telegraph Flowers
Are You Losing Your Hair?
If you are, don’t worry about it. It is now possible to have your hair restored by a tested and approved method of
HAIR
REGROWING
Our method is absolutely guaranteed or your money refunded.
-	WE ALSO SPECIALIZE IN
Dandruff and Falling Hair Cure Manicures Facials Permanents Hair Tinting
All Work Guaranteed
Men Only	Private Entrance
Reliance Hair Growing Shop
230% W. Washington	Phone 4-6771
Thirty-two
Tiie Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Journalism?
Thomas W. Gerber of the executive staff of the United Press says: "Seeking, reporting, interpreting and distributing news is today a complex business, an exciting profession, a responsible career. It is a field only for serious-minded, dear-thinking men and women. The day of romantic, adventurous assignments is largely over.”
THERE’S no more "newspaper game.” Today, it’s a business— still exciting, but calling for all-round resourcefulness. That’s why newspaper men agree with college men in choosing a pipe as their favorite smoke. A pipe helps a man organize his mind for clear thinking.
Why did college men choose Edgeworth as their favorite smoking tobacco?* Because it’s individual! A blend of fine old hurleys that’s different.
But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So drop a line to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and let them send you a free sample of Edgeworth to try before you buy. You’ll like it!
* A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes— pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
On Down The Line
Fred MacBeth____^^
FRESCHI is a SOPHOMORE at Notre Dame . . . ANDY KERR, COLGATE coach, awards a hat to back-field men who make a touchdown and linemen who block a kick . . . the FRENCH ACADEMY OF SPORTS’ gold medal and 25,000 franc purse, awarded anually to the outstanding athlete of the country, is expected to go to JEAN BOROTRA, the tennis star . . . aviators are considered athletes in France and the ACADEMY award has gone to one of them a majority of times since its creation in 1910.
❖
CHET WYNNE, NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS and coach of football at AUBURN, has received a salary of $12,000 a year for the past three years . . .$2,500 above the salary of the school president . . . when Coach FRANK THOMAS of ALABAMA calls his squad out for spring practice he will have four lines averaging better than 200 pounds from end to end ... a couple of years ago GEORGE LOTT swore off tennis for fear of becoming a “tennis bum” . . . last year he played in 55 tournaments and is appearing in the South’s winter meets.
❖
Ring experts are picking K. O. CHRISTNER to succeed GEORGIA COLEMAN as diving champion’. . . after his recent fight with KING LEVINSKY . . . K. O.’s “dive” prompted HARRY GRAYSON to end his story in the WORLD-TELEGRAM with this brief announcement: “NEXT WEEK —ANNETTE -KELLERMAN IN PERSON.” . . . BILL TILDEN AND HANS NUSSLEIN seem to be staging their battle for the “professional tennis championship” in every city in the country . . . TILDEN HASN’T LOST YET . . . JOHN DOEG, 1930 national tennis champion, is a successful business man in NEWARK.
BILLY ARNOLD, offered the loan of two racing motors by GAR WOOD, plans to assemble a car and attempt to break SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL’S speed record ... he expects to make the run sometime this year on DAYTONA’S sands ... rumor has it that ALBIE BOOTH will be head freshman coach in football, baseball, and basketball at YALE . . . BABE
HERMAN, who is expected to do some heavy work for the CUBS this year, has played under 19 different managers . . . ERNIE ORSATTI, of the ST. LOUIS CARDINALS, has doubled for movie stars in dozens of dangerous stunts without injury ... but on the baseball field he is rated as “brittle” and is often out of the game with injuries.
FARM RELIEF PLANS
(Continued from Page 16)
Farm Allotment Bill. This, in substance, provides for an excise tax on the processor of certain specified crops, the tax to be paid to those farmers who comply with the requirement of limiting their acreage twenty per cent on a basis of previous production.
While its practicability has yet to be determined, there are several obvious faults inherent in this proposal. First, it amounts to a tax on the necessities of life, agricultural products, an admittedly undesirable type of taxation. Secondly, it simply takes money from one class and gives it to another, subsidizing the farmer—incidentally, at the expense of that class least able to give. And, finally, its administration will tend toward greater government bureaucracy, in that excessive supervision and activity of some fifty thousand officials will be essential to its enforcement.
And still, what to do ? Taxation reform would help, taxation of incomes, elimination or lowering of the general property tax. Reduction of railroad rates, elimination of crop speculation, reform of bankruptcy laws — all are presented as partial remedies. But the ultimate solution ? — again, who knows?
Bulletin Board Notice Student Cruises
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for U. S. and foreign territory. For full details write — THE COLLEGIATE SCHOLARSHIP INSTITUTE— 219 Republic Building, Miami, Fla.
O. A. CLARK'S
R ESTA U R ANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
>	Catering to	!;
; NOTRE DAME MEN < ; for over thirty years
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday!
ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
$ — 4ft ROUND TRIP
South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL . . . 50c lb.
FAMILY ASSORTMENT . 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . . 70c lb.
V
Special Attention to Mailing	■
Open Evenings and Sundays	:
V	.	!
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc. I Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Hotel ■
Well, I can’t tell you much of anything about what is in Chesterfields
BUT I smoke a good deal, and I noticed that they said that Chesterfield Cigarettes were milder and tasted better; so I smoked a package or two and found it to be true.
I also noticed that the cigarettes were well-■ filled, seemed to be the right length and the right circumference, and burned uniformly— not up one side and down the other.
I liked the' aroma—very pleasing. I liked the appearance of the cigarette—the paper, dead white. The package rather appealed to me.
I don’t know exactly what it is, but I just like ’em. It’s about the only luxury that I enjoy; so I think it’s right forme to have agood cigarette, and I believe Chesterfield is just about the best	-
£1933. Liggett & Mvras Tobacco Co.
people know it