^he ^Notre Gbame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
-
College Parade
... By E. F. Gillespie
hi tiniiititiiiiit M>ii t mutt......
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN. Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI -RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor
Managing Editor - Sports Editor - Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager - Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER-WALTERS	-
E. F. GILLESPIE -	-
ART WAGNER -	-
FRANK GUIDO -	-
REV; CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C.
The Green Banner The College Parade • Swabbie's Log
- Photography
Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN DEFANT GERARD HEKKER
JOHN FEENEY	JOHN MILES
J. J. TENGE	LOUIS HAFNER
DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW
OCTAVE EMOND TOM RYAN JOHN THOMAS
PAUL WEYRAUCH
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. .
2
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
Dr. John R. Emens, a Michigan educator and director of personnel for the Detroit public schools for the last four years, has accepted the presidency of Ball State Teachers College. He succeeds Dr. L. A. Pittenger who retired to become president emeritus of the college. . . Ten free flying lessons was the award made to the holder of the lucky ticket at the Aero Ball at the University of Minnesota. . . Jerry Wald and his orchestra played for the May Hop, annual climax to Traditions week, at Ohio State University last week. . . . Also from the Buckeye school we learn that twenty-two of the co-eds are quite proficient as sharpshooters. Once a week they meet to practice, using ROTC rifles, and 91 out of 100 is their average score. Deviating slightly, we would like to mention that the Annie Oakley’s across the Dixie have been packing six irons ever since Woelfie’s last stand at the iron gates. . . A Stamp Shack is the featured center for war stamp and bond purchasing of the University of Maryland students. . . Since “turn about is fair play” Iowa State College has instituted a system by which its students evaluate their professors’ teaching ability at the end of every semester. It is hoped that the new plan will help improve instructing quality and would always serve as a reminder to the professors that their main purpose is the education of their students.	.
USURPED FROM THE VILLANOVAN
You can always tell a barber
By the way he parts his hair,
You can always tell a dentist	,
TV/ieji you’re in a dentist’s chair, And even a musician
You can tell him by his touch, You can always tell a freshman, But you can’t tell him much!
HERE AND THERE
Captain Corydon M. Wassel, USNR, whose harrowing experiences during the early part of the Pacific war made him one of the greatest heroes of this conflict, recently visited the Tulane University Medical School and was high in his praise of their research program on tropical diseases. . . Another Tulane note: The one half millionth book to be received of the Iliad by Homer, was written by two former Tulane professors. The new executive officei’ of the Georgia Tech V-12 school, Commander H. F. Holmshaw, USN, was aboard the carrier Hornet when General James Doolittle made his now historic bombing of Tokyo. . . Pari of the “new order” of Edward Stolman, Northwestern student who won the honor of serving as president for the Wildcat university for one day when he purchased $6,000 in war bonds at a recent bond rally, was the return of two o’clock permissions for the co-eds. . . A new two hundred pound whistle announces the “shift changes” between classes on the University of Kansas campus. The whistle is the gift of Captain Rovert Haggert, a former student, who salvaged it from a scuttled German transport vessel, and transported it 25,000 miles to present it to the university.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
MAY 25, 1945
NO. 10
Bob Hope Bond Show Monday Night
Monday afternoon at 4:00 the gates of the Notre Dame Stadium will be opened for those lucky people holding tickets to the Bob Hope Bond Show scheduled to begin at 6:00. With the man famous for his “ski-jump” nose will be the full cast of his weekly radio show and in addition Mr. Herbert Marshall who will appear as guest star.
Ringing up a total of $1,575.00, purchase value, 75 students earned the right to attend this great show. Among the students, Zahm hall leads with a total which is nearly half the student purchases, $712.50. Cavanaugh is second with $300.00, and Sorin ranks third with $187.50. The Accounting office has made it known that a very few tickets can still be acquired by students who buy bonds.
Headlining the show will be that mirthful man, the banana-nose boy who pairs up with the “Groaner,” or goes it alone, to bring Americans, both on the fighting front and on the home front, some of the fun that makes wartime life more bearable. Since the start of the war Bob Hope and his girl Friday, Frances Langford, have given shows before many thousands of fighting Americans in virtually every theater of action. His record of sacrifice is well known and he has been acclaimed by GI’s throughout the world.
Accompanying Hope on his jaunts to the fighting fronts, Frances Langford has probably drawn more long, low, whistles than any other girl, living or dead, in the history of man. “Francie,” as Hope often calls her, sang for fighting
IMPORTANT TO STUDENTS
Only those Notre Dame students will be admitted to the Bob Hope Show who have purchased war bonds. Though the show is being held in the Notre Dame stadium, it is under the auspices of the St. Joe Valley Seventh War Loan Drive, and not of the University. Hence, it is not a University function.
men in all kinds of weather and on all kinds of improvised stages and platforms during her travels. If any of the boys ever had any doubts as to who the most beautiful women in the world were, Miss Langford’s appearances certainly must have left no question in their minds but that American still has the world’s best.
Some of the students may think all the cheering sections for the last ten years are still in the stands when Jerry Colona lifts his walrus lip and displays his cavernous mouth while emitting one of those famous “Colona” yells. It is rumored that Colona was drafted by one of the ships docked on the west coast to replace their whistle when V-E Day was announced and the ship’s crew found themselves without a whistle. According to the report the other crews at the port were jealous because Colona kept singing “Anchors Aweigh” and drowned out the other ships’ whistles.
What will happen Tuesday night when Vera Vague sees all those midshipmen in the Drill Hall is something of a problem. Probably the man-craziest edition of a woman since Brenda and Cobina teamed up on Hope’s show a few years back,
Hope didn't get a Monogram for this bit of play
Miss Vague is the outstanding wolf ess of the nation today. The truly amazing about Miss Vague is her attractiveness, for she has more than mediocre beauty, but her actions and voice give the impression that no man is safe within arms reach of her.	.
Skinnay Ennis and his band will back up the program which is expected to last over hours, by providing the music for songs by Hope, Miss Langford, and Colona. Skinnay has the reputation of being the only man who is always shaking the bones; his wife can never tell whether he is shooting crap or just walking around, the sound is the same.
Appearing as guest star on both the Monday and Tuesday shows, will be Herbert Marshall, famed actor, who will bring sighs to the lips of the women in the audience.
Admission to the show Monday night will be by ticket only, aod a few of those tickets can be acquired by students through the purchase of a bond at the Accounting Office on the ground floor of the Main building. Tuesday night the show in the Drill Hall will be open only to Navy personnel.
3
NROTC Naval Ball Two Weeks Away;
250 Couples to Hear Raymond Scott
"Two weeks left” is the nervous ejaculation of the members of the NROTC dance committee as they frantically prepare for the unit’s 8th Naval Ball which will be held in the South Bend Service-• men’s Center on Friday, June 8. Cochairmen Rudy Anderson and John Caron are completing their extensive business arrangements and are driving the various committees furiously to provide an evening of continuous entertainment.
Joe Lauck
Raymond Scott will provide the tantalizing and melodic music for the 250 delighted couples who will attend the dance. The music will be especially planned to please the acute taste of the RO battalion, and intermissions will be filled with excellent featured entertainment. Nothing has been spared to make the night momentous, unusual, and striking.
Decorations for the ball have progressed from the first germination of an idea in the minds of Joe Lauck and Tom Brownell into a grand pattern and design of coherent splendor that will be “the most elaborate decorative plan ever attempted by the NROTC.” As in the past, the theme is a closely guarded secret, hidden from even the prying eyes of battalion big-wigs, but the secrecy will even mean more complete satisfaction for the fortunates who will attend the unveiling of the panorama on the eighth of June. Ably assisting in the design and construction are Pete Gaydos, Jack Phipps, and Woody Stockwell. Cooperation of the Midshipmen dance committee has aided greatly in general arrange
ments. Electrical details have been worked out with splendid results, and all is now final preparation for the ultimate in gala events.
Programs, corsages, and all the hundred and one odds and ends that make a ball exceptional are being handled with customary efficiency by the responsible committees and the results bear out their outstanding success.
Plans are now underway to broadcast the ball. Lt. F. W. Pollard, whose valuable assistance and advice have been responsible for the progress of the dance is now working together with Dave Armstrong to get a national hookup to bring the NROTC extravaganza across the nation.
This semester’s ball will also be a graduation ball for the 27 first classmen who will receive their degrees and commissions in June. Because of this all the . chairmen and their staffs are intent on making this ball an event that will stand out in the memories of the departing and will serve as an incentive for those remaining to carry on the magnificent tradition of NROTC Naval Balls.
Elect Dincolo Vice-Prexy of N. Ind. Accountants
Mr. James Dincolo, M.C.S., has been elected to the vice-presidency of the northern chapter of the Indiana Association of Certified Public Accountants. In addition to this position, he was selected to the education committee of the association for the whole state. The
Prof. James Dincolo
organization is a state wide affair and is divided into northern and southern chapters.
Mr. Dincolo is an associate professor of accounting and has been at the University since September, 1937.	.
—Louis Hapner
An Open Letter ...
To Notre Dame Students:
We had a letter from Major Hinkel this afternoon. You remember Major Hinkel. Last December he wrote from overseas and asked us to help him make Christmas worth something to the War Children of Italy. You remember the Soap and Candy campaign we launched—how you boys here at school. Civilians, V-12s, Marines, Offices on Campus, American Legion and many kind people from South Bend sent us soap and candy. You remember how feverishly we packed all that stuff, feverishly because the deadline for Christmas mailing was so near and the soap and candy kept flowing in—because there are a lot of good people in this world who wanted to help with that order of making Christmas worth something to those children.
Did you know that the Major got so much stuff that it was called “Kinkel's Cargo?" — did you know that the Army designated a special building to store the soap and candy—and that a lot of war children were given that Christmas party?
The Major wasn't there for that Christmas Party because new orders came through for him and he spent Christmas at the front. He didn't get his Christmas gifts because anything and everything addressed to Major Hinkel was tossed in as part of his “cargo." .
We had a letter from the Major this afternoon. He needs our help again and we are turning to you, because you came through last time.
The Notre Dame Club of Italy—100 or more army personnel who have adopted Notre Dame as their Alma Mater—headed by Major Hinkel, has founded an orphanage to house 300 or more homeless boys between the ages of four and 15. These boys need clothes.
There isn't the added attraction of Christmas to help make this more attractive—there will be no feverish Christmas deadline to make. We have only the picture of boys needing clothes and needing them badly, and men who believe in Notre Dame turning to us for help.
We don't think a stronger appeal is needed. You came through last time and you will again. And say, while you're hunting up the old clothes, if you happen across an old bat or ball or mitt or tennis racquet — add that to the things you're going to give to the orphanage, won't you?
The SCHOLASTIC representatives will canvass your hall Thursday evening about 7:30—or if you are over in the direction of the Main Buiding, drop your contribution off in the Publications Office.
—The SCHOLASTIC
4
Tomorrow Night—The 1945 Senior Ball
The Senior Class of 1945 will gather tomorrow in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel at 7:30 to start an evening filled with stardust and moonglow as they are served the first course of the sumptuous feast. ,Folowing the dinner, music will be provided by Myron Walz and his band as the seniors and their guests step out imthe first formal Senior Ball to be held at Notre Dame-in three years.	-
Patrons for the -.evening will be Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C. S. C., and Miss Elizabeth Rigney.
Co-Queen
Miss Vera Ann Barany
Reigning as co-queens for the evening will be Miss Vera Ann Barany, of South Bend, who will be the guest of Elmer F. Gillespie, and Miss Agnes Sarhatt, of Flint, Michigan, who will be escorted by Robert Riordan. Gillespie and Riordan are cochairmen of the evening.
Other special guests for the evening will be Miss Kathryn Kirkley of South Bend, escorted by Walter L. McDermott, chairman of the menu committee; Miss Joanne Guendling of South Bend who will be the guest of George T. Haley, arrangements chairman; Miss Phyllis Tack from Cleveland, Ohio, will be escorted by Robert H. O’Toole, publicity chairman. Thomas P. Bergin, chairman of reservations will have Miss Dorothy Ritter of Owosso, Mich., as his guest; John V. Allen, decorations chairman, will escort Miss Gene Kush of South Bend; Francis M. Linehan, who heads the music committee, will have Miss Mary Lou
Co-Queen —no CrolT Photo
Miss Agnes Sarhatt
O’Connor of Schenectady, N. Y., as his guest; and Frank Pendarvis, in charge of navy reservations, will escort Miss Beverly Murphy of South Bend.
The Rotary Room will be effectively decorated under the guidance of Jack Allen and his committee of planners. With candlelight and striking draperies the Ball will be in an atmosphere of ele
Myron Walz and his Orchestra who will play at the Senior Ball
gance and gaiety as the approximately 50 couples gather for this last formal entertainment before the graduates go out into the “cruel, cruel world” come June. Although none of the details of the decoration theme have been revealed by Allen no one will be disappointed.
George Haley and his arrangements committee have worked out the details of their plans regarding the arrangements of seating and the program of the evening. The Ball-goers will reap the full benefits of the committees work from the moment they cross the golden threshold.
This senior ball wil be the last social event at Noti-e Dame except graduation for many of those attending the Ball. Many of the seniors came here to Notre Dame just as the exigencies of war curtailed a usually full social calendar- to semi-formal dances once a semester. It may be significant that this year’s SeniorBall is formal in that it may mark a revival of the pre-war type of social activities.
The Myron Walz band is one of the most distinctive musical organizations in the South Bend area. Backing up his featured feminine vocalist, Walz presents twelve- musicians in his well-integrated outfit. The band is noted for its fine “small event” dancing music.
5
V-12 Dance to Ted Fio Rito's Music Tonight; Large Crowd to Attend Sixth Regimental Bail
The sixth V-12 Regimental Formal Ball will be presented tonight beginning at 2100 as the culmination of weeks of preparation and as the initial feature of the weekend for spring.
Approximately three - fourths of the unit will turn out for the Service Center promenade with guests from near and far to hear the music of Ted Fio Rito and his orchestra in a setting created by the unique and extravagant theme of decorations. Vocals for the Fio Rito orchestra will feature Ward Swingle and the Solidaires.
The commanding officer, Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN.; will be among the honored guests for the evening along with the members of the V-12 executive officers’ staff including Lt.-Commander Clarke Olney, executive officer for the V-12 unit; Lieut. E. W. Bowman, Lieut, (jg) Carey Brewbaker, and Lieut, (jg) Byron E. Hummon. Other honored guests who have been extended invitations include the officer’s personnel of all Naval units on the station as well as the faculty of the University.
Band Leader Ted Fio Rito
Reigning as queen of the military ball will be Miss Marjorie Burnham of Mishawaka, Ind., guest of General Chairman Jack Schneider.
Guests of the remaining members of the committee will be Miss Kathryn Smith of Meadville, Pa., guest of Robert N. Waterhout; Miss Lou Jordan of South Bend, guest of James C. Butler; Miss Bernadine Buckley of Chicago, Ill., guest of R. E. Harrington; Miss Elaine Ruppert of South Bend, guest of Arthur
Wagner; Miss Patty Millott, Minneapolis,. Minn., guest of Joseph Haggar; Miss Lillian Kearney of Marshalltown, Iowa, guest of Eugene Diamond; and Miss Faye Heslin of East Chicago, Ind., guest of Clay Toddy.
All trainees and their guests must be in attendance by 2130 and liberty for
Queen	—De Groff Photo
Miss Marjorie Burnham
the evening will expire at 0300. A full evening of dancing according to the desired. tempo is promised by the music committee.
After the ball, the weekend will be rounded out with programs planned for Saturday and Sunday. Saturday afternoon will see the entire regiment in dress review followed by exhibition tennis matches on the University courts immediately following. On Saturday evening, there will be an informal dance at the Rockne Memorial with music by the V-12 Commanders. A water carnival will be held in the Rockne pool during intermission. Sunday’s activity will again move off-campus to the Service Center downtown for a tea dance with music by Ted Gallagan and his band. Sunday evening will bring the week-end to a close affer a complete schedule of entertainment for the three days.
Now a traditional triennial feature of the Notre Dame social calendar, the V-12 balls have won a reputation for success and the ball for this semester is expected to very capably perform its function as the big event of the season and a fitting remembrance for the many members of the unit who will be leaving in July.
Vocalist Ward Swingle
Eight Bands to Play at Bob Hope Bond Show
Preceding the Bob Hope bond show in the stadium Monday night will be an extensive and colorful pageant of bands, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, Notre Dame band director* and music chairman of the St. Joseph County war finance committee. Eight bands, including the Notre Dame unit, will appear in the performance before the bond buyers.
Mr. Hope is preparing and will direct the band show which will feature more than five hundred musicians. Bands papticipating will include: Central, Mishawaka, Washington, John Adams, North Liberty, Riley, New Carlisle and Notre Dame.
Each band will enter separately through the tunnel at the north end of the stadium and will execute a maneuver while moving down the field. At the completion of its maneuver each band will move to the sidelines, making room for the next group to function. When all bands are on the field they will be grouped into one tremendous unit. Thusly integrated, the musicians will play The Star Spangled Banner with Lloyd H. Andermann, C.Mus., U. S. N., of the midshipman’s school directing. Next the bands will present John Philip Sousa’s stirring Washington Post March, directed by Mr. Hope.
The massed bands will remain on the field during the performance of Bob Hope and his troupe. At the completion of the show they will play God Bless America with the audience participating. Civilian members of the Notre Dame band will act as marshals to aid in the smooth functioning of the carefully planned pageant.
6
Memorial Day Mass Sunday to Honor Notre Dame War Dead of World War II
Notre Dame will commemorate Memorial Day this year Sunday, May 27, with special services beginning at 10:00 a.m. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., will celebrate the Memorial Mass on a
special altar to be erected at the Memorial door in Sacred Heart Church, with the Congregation assembling in the area immediately in front of the West wing
of the Main building.
A V-12 color guard will present the colors with “To the Colors” and Art II follow with “Church Call.” The flags of all the United Nations will be displayed and Naval R.O.T.C. riflemen will act as a guard of honor. The Memorial Mass will begin at 10:10, with Father O’Donnell officiating and the Moreau Seminary Choir under the direction of Rev. G. Carlos Hager, C.S.C., singing.
Following the Mass, an address will be delivered by Capt. J. Richard Barry, U. S. N., commanding officer’ of the naval training station here. Father O’Donnell will then call the roll of the Notre Dame war dead.
After the roll call of the heroic dead, volley, and taps, the memorial commemoration will close with the playing of the National Anthem.
from the masters will include Bach’s Chorale, “All Beings Now Are Under Thee,” Tschykowsky’s “Legend,” and an “Ave Maria” arranged in the fourteenth century by Fr. Witt. Favorite quartette selections “Nut Brown Maiden,” “Passing By,” and “The Three Caffers,” will precede the finale of traditional Notre Dame melodies.
Said Director Pedtke of the group, “The enthusiastic response given the boys in oui’ out of town concerts, has been a tribute to their endeavors, and has keyed them up for what should be an enjoyable evening next Thursday.”
N. D.’s Col. Gabreski
Returns to U. S.
Lieut. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, ex. ’42, ranking ace of the U. S. Eighth air force in the European theatre, returned by air from Paris this week with three flier companions. Col. Gabreski, former Carroll halier, would have been graduated in 1942 had he not anticipated the draft by enlisting in the air corps.
Melodious and Varied Program Arranged As Glee Club Presents Campus Concert
The University Glee Club will present its first campus concert of the spring semester on Thursday, May 31, at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, B.Mus., F.A.G.O., the club will sing a varied program which has won the acclaim of audiences in Michigan City, Ind., and Kankakee, Ill., where the first out-of-town concerts have been booked since the beginning of the war.
Featured with the group will be baritone soloist Arch Kane, V-12 from Grand Ledge, Mich. Among his selections will
be “Duna,” and “Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride.”
An interesting program has been selected from the club’s repertoire, an outstanding selection being “Old Mother Hubbard,” the nursery rhyme set to music in the most sedate style of Handel, reminiscent of his “Hallelujah Chorus.”
More familiar numbers of the Glee Club will include “I Love a Parade” and Fred Waring arrangements of “Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms.”
Balancing the lighter selections, works
Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski
Notre Dame's Men of Music
The four fliers were among the first group of ten American fliers who had been imprisoned at Stalag Luft 1, Barth, Germany, to return home by air.
Col. Gabreski, whose home is Oil City, Pa., was forced down July 20, 1944, after downing 28 enemy planes in combat.
“I spent 10 months at Barth,” he said. “There were 9,000 airmen in the camp, of which 1500 were British and 7500 American. We were all treated alike. . . . but if it had not been for the Red Cross packages we would have starved.”
“I definitely want to get into the fighting in the Pacific,” Col. Gabreski answered when questioned as to his future plans.
7
GOODBYE, LADES
The latest communique from the ladies across the highway apprises us of the fact that they are closing the gates for the summer.
Woe is the Green Banner—what are we going to write about? No longer can we say things such as we said last week regarding their publications, their sports day, their punch, their informals, etc. In short, from now on, we’re stuck. Yet, regardless of our tone and our acrid comments, we think we shall miss them. They pop up frequently because, we confess, they’re worth thinking about. To some of our reading public (now, that’s flattery!) our dig at Static, last week, as written by Riordan, may have ap-appeared somewhat caustic. It was occasioned by similar comment in Static regarding the journalism employed by Scholastic; nothing more was intended. The articles appearing in both Static and Scholastic were meant and accepted as healthy badinage. Of course the Scholastic was overjoyed to discover another periodical guilty of inaccuracy, etc., of which Scholastic has heretofore had a monopoly. Thus we note the count in the
❖
BONERS DEPARTMENT—TO DATE
Static—3
Scholastic—542
Mr. Riordan hoped that no offense would be taken at the article, for none was intended. Three minor inaccuracies, possibly typographical in nature^’ were played up, but no statement was made such as the probable mental age of the editors as was done in a Static article some time ago, at which the Scholastic took no offense.
❖
MOTHER GOOSE GOES TO SENIOR BALL
Mary, Mary, quite contrary;
Would your mother give consent
To allow her daughter for eight and a quarter
To go to our big event?
Mary had a little beau,
Who answered her beck and call.
She refused to go where beau went— Except to the Senior Ball.
Hickory Dickory Dock, Bergin watches the clock; The clock struck two— And Bergin was campused!
... By Harry Walters and John Power
HI HO
Snow White and her seven dwarfs finally reached Washington hall last week-end. They looked just about the same as they did seven years ago with one exception—Grumpy was no longer around. He’d earned 85 points and a discharge.
CHICKEN A LA QUEEN
It took a Senior Ball to make the Commerce lads really apply their knowledge of exports and imports. The importing side of the story is being explored this week-end. Frank Linehan will meet the N. Y. C.’s crack train for his prize package labeled “Mary Lou” from Schenectady. . . Tony Renzi’s gal wil bear the return address of Pittsburg and Bob Riordan will unload his “perishable” and “fragile” goods from the Kalamazoo stagecoach. Dick Sandowski goes
“What are we going to write about now that St. Mary's is gone?"
into the lair of our gallant foe, Northwestern, for his queen. It is our only hope that she will not show up in a pin striped Rochester suit. Over in the A.B. school, Ernie Rauscher will accompany Miss Ruth Habel, the Queen of Lower New Jersey (Pete Berezney please note), while pre-med Doc Gillespie will be -required to trot to Holy Cross, Indiana. In this case, the O.D.T. will not deem it a “futile trip,” we saw the picture!!!	■	•
As for the Senior Ball in general, we deem the affair means to Notre Dame what Auld Lang Syne is to music. So congrats to all the gang who went all out to stage the affair.
EVENT OF THE WEEK
It’s happened. More astonishing than a pretty girl at a Co-Hop—We went to the library, asked for a book, and found that it was not:
1.	Out
2.	In the bindery
3.	Missing
A. On reference 5. On the index
MANNA FOR THE SENIOR BALL
There are three little words, the sweetest words
In all of human speech,
More sweet than are all songs of birds Or pages poets preach.
These little tvords tvill cheer the saddest days.
“I love you?” Wrong, by heck!
It is another sweeter phrase, “Enclosed, find check.”
Wranglers Addressed by Jose Cardenas
Jose B. Cardenas, senior architecture student from Panama City, Panama, addressed the Wranglers in their regular weekly meeting held last week with “Spiritual Internationalism” as his topic. Emphasizing the need for a spiritual basis upon which a peaceful world structure can be built, Mr. Cardenas pointed out the need for a religion which is lived by the peoples of the world.
Mr. Cardenas discussed the need for conquering peace, which is as difficult and important a job as the winning of the war, and he assailed the belief in predestination held by many in regard to man’s ability to succeed in such an important task.
Dave Armstrong, Wrangler president, presided over the meeting, and membership chairman, Norb Geier, introduced the following new members to the organization: Frank Buckley, John Phipps, Stan Idzerda, Bill Carey, and Frank Grimaldi.
8
Schedule of Semester Examinations
University of Notre Dame
The examinations for this spring semester of 1945 will be held in all colleges and in the graduate school of the University on the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of June 18 to 22, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at	will be examined at	Date
8:00 on Monday . . .	8 :00 on Monday . . .	June 18
9:()() on Monday . . .	8:00 on Wednesday . . .	June 20
10:00 on Monday . . .	10:00 on Monday . . .	June 18
11 :00 on Monday . . .	10:00 on Wednesday . . .	June 20
1:15 .on Monday . . .	1:15 on Monday . . .	June 18
2:15 on Monday. . .	3:15 on Monday . . .	June 18
3:15 on Monday . . .	8:00 on Friday	. . .	June 22
Classes taught at	will be examined at	Date
8:00 on Tuesday . . .	8:00 on Tuesday . . .	June 19
9:00 on Tuesday . . .	8:00 on Thursday . . .	June 21
10:00 on Tuesday . . .	10:00 on Tuesday . . .	June ,19
11:00 on Tuesday . . .	10 :00 on Thursday . . .	- June 21
1:15 on Tuesday . . .	1:15 on Wednesday . - -	June 20
2:15 on Tuesday . . .	3:15 on Wednesday . . .	June 20
3:15 on Tuesday . . .	10:00 on Friday	. . .	June 22
All classes in -Mathematics (except Math. B,		
8n, and 9n)	2:15 oH. Tuesday . . .	June 19
All classes in		
Physics	2:15 on Thursday • .-. .	June 21
Classes taught		
after 4:00 p.tn. . . .	. . .	By special arrangement of the instructor.
No changes will be permitted. Please do not ask for any
Any examination outside of the time designated for it in the foregoing schedule will not be valid for credit.—The period of each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes.—Monday in the first column of the schedule means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means, Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday.—Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.	’
Director of Studies
Fr. Cavanaugh Speaks at Loretto Heights
On June 6, the 1945 graduating class of Loretto Heights, a Senior College for Women in Denver, Colorado, will hear a commencement address by the Rev. John J: Cavanaugh, C. S. C., vice-president of Notre Dame on “The Queen’s Throne.” Father Cavanaugh will emphasize the influence for good which women of Catholic education and culture may exert on the post-war world.
This College, with the splendor and beauty of the Rockies for scenic background, is conducted by the American teaching congregation, the Sisters of Loretto at the Foot of the Cross. Loretto Heights offers instruction in twenty-one practical and cultural fields, ranging from dietetics to aeronautics.
Romagosa Presents
Unusual Talk at Forum
At the Commerce Forum meeting, held Wednesday, May 16, there was a change from the usual subjects concerning the affairs and ideas of the United States. This was brought about in a speech delivered by Larry Romagosa, a native of Panama. Mr. Romagosa’s topic was “Pan-Americanism as Affected by the Mexico City Conference.”
The speaker stressed the need of furthering the aid and understanding of the United States toward the Latin American states, especially so in noneconomic matters.
Mr. Wesley Bender, Professor of Business Administration, substituted for Mr. E. A. Smith as faculty advisor. Guests of the evening included Joseph Menez and graduate student Luis Beltranena.
Eighteen N. D. Men
Take K. of C. Degrees
Eighteen Notre Dame men were initiated into the major degrees of the Knights of Columbus Sunday, May 20, in the St. Joseph’s school auditorium. This number brings the total of Knights on the campus to well over fifty, placing the council on a much firmer footing for its increasing activities.
The eighteen were among a class of more than a hundred sponsored by the South Bend Council. The class was named in honor of Timothy P. Galvin of Hammond, a member of the supreme board of directors of the Knights of Columbus. The candidates and many of the Notre Dame council members spent the week-end in a flourish of K. of C. activities, beginning with a supper dance in the Rotary Room of the Oliver hotel Saturday night and culminating in a post-initiation buffet supper, also in the Rotary room, Sunday evening.
. Candidates who received the second and third degrees into the Notre Dame council were: Chris Cochran, William Budd, Joaquin Sole, Garland Dowling, Dan Dansewicz, James Luken, Henry Lee Shipp, Horn R. Keegan, Thomas E. Burns, William Dwyer, William Ruth, Elmer F. Gillespie, Francis Malone, Pete Stubler, Ralph Hayman, Bro. Cyril, C.S.C., Bro. Jareth, C.S.C., and Bro. Canisius, C.S.C.
On Sunday, June 4, the Notre Dame Knights will travel to Hudson lake for the annual spring outing. That morning the club will receive Communion in a body. Plans for the day will be completed at the next council meeting to be held Tuesday evening, May 29, in the basement of the Law building at 7:30.
—F. V. G.
New Fire Station for N.D.
The noises of activity sounding from behind the Biology building of late have been the results of efforts expended toward the construction of Notre Dame’s newest building. Work has begun on a multi-purpose $80,000 two-story fireproof edifice. The building will house the university’s motorized equipment, including fire-fighting equipment, on the first floor. The second floor will be residence quarters for the firemen and other university employees.
The new building on the northeast corner of the campus will be constructed of brick and concrete. It will be 62 by 137 feet in dimensions. A completion date has not been set.	,
"9
imif
N. D. Splits With Western Michigan;
Season Record: 6 Wins, 5 Losses, 1 Tie
Two losses and one win—a split with Western Michigan and a setback administered by the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station—comprise the record of the Notre Dame baseball nine for play in the games of last week-end. The results of these encounters make the Irish overall ledger thus far for the season read: six wins, five losses, and one tie; N. D.’s percentage is .545.
Just a week ago today, Jake Kline’s club opposed the Broncos of Western Michigan in the first tilt of a two-game set. Although the locals had previously beaten the Michiganders, 26-10 and tied them, 2-2, at Kalamazoo, last Friday’s proceedings were wholly different as Notre Dame fell before the northerners, 6-13. Jack Stewart, initial Irish mounds-man, started shakily, allowing a run in the opening inning and a cluster of five in the second. The winners didn’t need any more, but that happy condition only served as an incentive, for seven additional tallies came home in the final four frames. A three run outburst in the seventh finished Stewart for the afternoon; Gehring took over and twirled the rest of the way. Maxwell hurled for Western and limited N. D. to eight hits. Of these, two were contributed by George Schneider. In the ninth three Irish safeties—singles by Schneider and George Ratterman and Jack Barrett’s two bagger—gave Notre Dame four of its runs. The losers were woefully inadequate on defense, committing seven errors, most of them costly. Western, erring five times, was little better.
Less than 24 hours after the series’ opener the same two clubs met again. This time Jack Barrett pitched for N. D. and the result was a gratifying 3-0 shutout for the Irish in as well played a game as has been witnessed here this season. In contrast to the first game, only two errors—one by each team— marred play.
Barrett gave up but five hits to the Broncos while his mates were collecting eight from the offerings of Urquhart. George Schneider continued in his role as the leading N. D. hitter of the series by poling two hits, one a long triple. Captain Frank Gilhooley also notched a pair of bingles.
A powerful Bunker Hill Naval Air Station nine avenged an earlier loss to Notre Dame by soundly whipping the Irish, 19-4, last Sunday at Peru, Ind. While John Le Breu and his successor, Mamsey, were being tagged for some 13 hits by the Sailors, Al Piechota, formerly a regular moundsman with the Boston Braves, permitted only eight by the Irish. Frank Gilhooley again was the big gun for N. D. The potent outfielder rapped a homei* and a brace of singles in four tries. Bill Hassett’s triple was next best for Notre Dame.
Eight men romped home for Bunker Hill in the wild sixth although there were only three safe hits made in that inning. Notre Dame’s fielding was extremely erratic, no less than nine misplays being charged to the Irish. Wildness by their pitchers also was detrimental to the collegians’ cause.
The Line Scores:
Western Michigan  1 5 0 0 0 1 3 1 2—13 13 5 Notre Dame .......0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 4— 6 8 7
Batteries: Maxwell and Marks; Stewart, Gehring (7) and Tracy, Murphy (7).
Western Michigan ...0	0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0 5 1
Notre Dame _________0 1 0 1 Q 1 0 0 x—3 8 1
Batteries: Urquhart and Marks; Barrett and Tracy.
Notre Dame  ______1 0 0 0 2 1 0 0 0— 4 8 9
Bunker Hill  .....2 3 2 3 0 8 0 1 x—19 13 2
Batteries. Le Brou, Ramsey (5) and Murphy, Koluch (5) ; Piechota and Gleasner.
SPORTS SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK-END
Baseball:
Friday, Ohio State University, at Columbus
Saturday, Ohio State University, at Columbus
Tennis:
Sunday, Lawrence College, at Appleton, Wisconsin
Golf:
Saturday, Wayne University, at Notre Dame
Track:
Saturday, Western Michigan, at Kalamazoo
NATIONAL P G. A. VETERAN GOLF FUND
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., announced this week that Notre Dame is entering into the national P.G.A. drive to collect equipment for war veterans stationed at the Wakeman General Hospital at Camp Atterbury, Indiana. Notre Dame has already contributed dozens of golf balls; and Fr. Holderith would appreciate any old clubs, or other equipment, for the same worthy charity.
A sign is being placed on the first tee on the Notre Dame Course asking for donations, and every golfer is expected to contribute a dime or more to the fund. Fr. Holderith urges all campus golfers to get behind this drive, and points out that it is a worth while cause. The hospital is a state project to care for Indiana veterans. The P.G.A. drive, national in scope, opens Saturday.
Linksmen Lose to Michigan, 19 to 5
Michigan University’s strong golf team came from behind to beat Notre Dame 19 to 5 at Ann Arbor last Monday. For the first seven holes of the morning round it looked like the Irish might upset the highly favored Wolverines, as Notre Dame men were anywhere from one to five up at that point, but the Michigan experience caught up with them, and the Irish were shut out in the morning ’9-0.
In the afternoon rounds, Michigan again proved their superiority and won ten to five. Low man for Notre Dame was Tom Kennedy who posted a 76 in the afternoon round, but top honors for the day went to Michigan’s Jensawald who came up with a 74 in the morning doubles.
The Summary: Doubles: Kennedy 42-38—80 and Truschel 46-39—85 (ND), lost to Marcellus 39-39—78 and Jensawald 30-35—74 (M), 0-3; Ernst 40-41— 81 and Morey 39-38—77 (M), defeated Clynes 39-39—78 and Morrow 40-41—81 (ND), 3-0.
Singles: O’Hara 40-38—78 (M), defeated Mosher 41-41—82 (ND), 3-0; Kennedy 37-39—76 (ND), defeated Marcellus (M), 2-1; Tews (M), defeated Clynes 40-38—78 (NDJ^^-’/e; Morey (M), tied Morrow 39-39—78 (ND), 1%-1%; Truschel 42-42—84 (ND), lost to O’Hara (M), 0-3.
Points: Morning Rounds—Michigan 9, Notre Dame 0; Afternoon Rounds— Michigan 10, Notre Dame 5.
10
Second Annual Student Council Field Day Scheduled for June 9-10; Allen, Chairman
The second annual Student Council Field Day has been set for Saturday and Sunday, June 9 and 10, according to announcement by chairman Jack Allen, Secretary of the student council. Field events will be held in Cartier Field, starting at 1:30 Saturday afternoon. The swimming events will be held in Saint Joseph’s Lake Sunday afternoon immediately following the baseball game in Cartier Field • where the Notre Dame team meets the Iowa Seahawks.
Assisting Allen will be Jose Brady, representative of the Law school, and Jim Donovan, Edward Meisczkowski, Bob Mulcahy, Mike Bush, Tom Jackson and Bill Hopke, all hall representatives who will captain teams from their respective halls, and W. W. Moore and Bob Brown, NROTC and V-12 council representatives who will head the teams from those units. Art Diamond will coordinate the efforts of the off-campus students and Villagers to enter one team.
According to present plans the field day will follow much the pattern of the event of last year, but Chairman Allen has promised the student body some innovations which will thrill every spectator.
Illini Thinlies Best
Irish last Saturday
Led by George Walker, Bob Kelley and Henry Aihara, the Ilinois track team defeated Notre Dame here last . Saturday 68% to 53%. Joe Kelly was the leading Irish point-maker with two firsts, one in the discus and the other in the shot put.
The summary:
ONE-MILE RUN: Won by Kelley (Ill.) : Tully (N.D.) 2nd: Steinburg (Ill.) 3rd. Time: 4:33.8.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES: Won by Walker (III.) : Burghardt (Ill.) 2nd; O’Neil (N.D.) 3rd. Time: 14.9.
100-YARD DASH: Won by Walker (Ill.) ; Thompson (N.D.) ; 2nd; Murphy (N.D.) 3rd. Time: 10.
440-YARD RUN: Won by Gonzales (Ill.) ; Hayes (Ill.) 2nd: Provost (N.D.) 3rd. Time: 50.5.
SHOT PUT: Won by Kelly (N.D.) : Sprague (III.) 2nd: Scott (N.D.) 3rd; Distance 46 ft. 8 in.
880-YARD RUN: Kelly (Ill.) and Swartzen-ruber (Ill.), tied for first: Perl (Ill.) 3rd. Time: 1 :59.2.
220-YARD DASH: Won by Murphy (N.D.) : Thompson (N.D.) 2nd; Hayes (Ill.) 3rd. Time: 22.2.
DISCUS: Won by Kelly (N.D.) ; Snyder (Ill.) 2nd; Green (Ill.) 3rd. Distance: 131 ft. 9 in.
TWO-MILE RUN: Won by Tully (N.D.) : Steinburg (III.) 2nd; White (N.D.) 3rd. Time: 10:05.6.
POLE VAULT: Won by Struble (N.D.) ; Vos-
Originated by the Student Council last September, the field day proved so popular that it may become an annual tradition on the campus.
According to tentative plans, entrants will be recruited by hall captains and the men in charge of the other teams. It is hoped that eight teams will be entered with four civilian halls entering one team each, Sorin, St. Ed’s, Cavanaugh and Alumni, and Zahm and Breen-Phillips. The other four teams will be two from the V-12 unit, and one each from the NROTC and the off-campus students. With this number of entrants it is expected that the thrills and laughs will be plentiful. Exercising the reserved judgment characteristic of any students who have been in Indiana for three years Allen made no predictions as to the weather that day except that everyone ■ would sunburn his nose, freeze his fingers or get wet feet.
Further announcements will be made through the hall bulletin board? as to the manner of entering events. Events will include novelty track and field events as well as swimming events to be staged at the pier in St. Joseph’s Lake.
burg (N.D.) 2nd; Marler (N.D.) 3rd. Height: 12 ft.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES: Won by Walker (III.): Berghardt (III.) 2nd: O’Neil (N.D. 3rd. Time: 24.7.
HIGH JUMP: Tied for first, Aihara (Ill.), Bubas (Bl.), McKean (N.D.) ; and Marler (N.D.). Height: 5 ft. 10 in.
BROAD JUMP: Won by Aihara (III.) ; Burghardt (Ill.) 2nd; Bubas (III.) 3rd. Distance: 23 ft. 2 in.
ONE-MILE RELAY: Won by Notre Dame (Jones, Schirmer, Provost. Murphy). Time: 3:26.4.
Irish Golfers Whip Purdue on N. D. Course
The Notre Dame Golf team again proved to be a home club as they remained undefeated on the local links by romping over Purdue University 17% to 6% last Saturday.
Low man on the Notre Dame Squad was Charles Morrow who posted a 74 in the morning round, but the best score of the day was a 72 handed in by Purdue’s Sox Howell. Howell, incidentally, scored more than half of Purdue’s total points with 3%, while Paul Busch took second honors for the Boilermakers with 2%.
For the Irish, the scoring was divided up among every man on the squad, Tom Kennedy and Morrow each scoring 3 to 0 victories in the singles, while Kennedy paired with Jim Truschel to win the
doubles by the same margin. The match was played with the help of perfect weather.
The Summary: Doubles: Clynes 38-40 —78 and Morrow 37-37—74 (ND), defeated Howell 37-38—75 and Plank 3945—84 (P), 2%-%; Kennedy 41-34—75 and Truschel 41-39—80 (ND), defeated Wadolny 46-40—86 and Sanis 46-39—85 (P), 3-0.
Singles: Scully 41-39—80 (ND), defeated Paul Busch 38-43—81 (P),2-l; Howell 37-35-72 (P),defeated Clynes 3937—76 (ND), 3-0,-Kennedy 38-38—76 (ND), defeated Plank 43-43—86 (P), 3-0; Mosher 38-38—76 (ND), defeated Sanis 40-38—78 (P), 2%-l%; Morrow 39-40—79 (ND), defeated Wadolny 4141—82 (P), 3-0; Porter 43-42—85 INDI, tied Busch 42-44—86 (P), 1%-1%.
Points: Morning Rounds—Notre Dame 7%, Purdue 1%; Afternoon Rounds— Notre Dame 10, Purdue 5.
Notre Dame Netmen Beat Wayne and Northwestern
Led by Captain Charlie Samson, the Notre Dame tennis team continued its winning way during the past week by scoring decisive wins over Northwestern and Wayne University to run the season’s record to six wins out of seven matches. The Irish netsters defeated Northwestern here last Friday 9 to 0 and overcame Wayne on Monday 7 to 2.
The Notre Dame squad will travel to Appleton, Wisconsin tomorrow where they will meet Lawrence College on Sunday. The only other match which remains for the Notre Dame squad before the N.C.A.A. tournament is a match with Purdue here on June 2. The summaries:
Notre Dame 7, Wayne University 2
SINGLES: Samson (ND.) deefated White (N). 6-2 6-2: Tully (N.D.) defeated Ryan (N.) 6-0. 6-3: Griffin (N.D.) defeated Nethercott (N.), 6-2. 6-1: Martin (N.D.) defeated Roth (N.). 6-4, 7-5; Brown (N-D.) defeated Kasbeer (N.). 6-3. 6-2; Baiocchi (N.D.) defeated Chalberg (N.). 6-2. 2-6. 6-4.
Notre Dame 9. Northwestern 0
DOUBLES: Samson and Griffin (N.D.) defeated White and Ryan (N-), 6-3, 6-2: Tully and Fountain (N.D.) defeated Nethercott and Roth (N-), 6-4, 6-1; Brown and Baiocchi (N.D.) defeated Kasbeer and Chalberg (N.). 6-1, 9-7.	'
SINGLES: Samson (ND) defeated Ryland (W). 6-4, 8-6: Tully (ND) deefated Russell (W). 6-4. 6-4 ; Griffin (ND) defeated Lewandowski, 6-1. 6-0: Ratterman (ND) defeated Schreiber (W), 6-4. 6-1; Hoffman (W) defeated Martin (ND), 6-1, 6-4; Brown (ND) defeated Plotkin (W). 4-6, 6-2. 6-2.
DOUBLES: Samson and Tully (ND) defeated Ryland and Russell (W), 6-2, 6-1; Griffin and Ratterman (ND) defeated Lewandowski and Schreiber (W), 6-0. 6-3; Hoffman and Plotkin (W) defeated Brown and Fountain (ND), 6-3. 6-0.
11
Klinemen to Clash With Ohio State Nine
Jake Kline’s baseball squad, seeking its second triumph of the current season over a Big Ten foe, clashes .with Ohio State’s Buckeyes at Columbus, 0., this afternoon. The same clubs meet again tomorrow to complete the two-game series.
Notre Dame’s experience with Western Conference nines this year has been somewhat painful, this being due wholly to the fact that Michigan’s league leaders have bested the Irish three times. Northwestern bowed once to the Blue and Gold in the only other contest involving a Big Ten club.
The Buckeyes have a record somewhat similar to that of the Irish, Ohio State having wone nine and dropped six with the results of its two most recent encounters unknown at this writing. Notre Dame have six victories and five defeats. Both O.S. and N.D. have been tied once.
Don Grate of football and cage fame will probably hurl for the Bucks today and either Max Nold or Dick Miner will draw the assignment for tomorrow. Coach Kline’s decision concerning the Irish pitchers is not known for certain but Jack Barrett is likely to get the call today, leaving John Le Brou and Jack Stewart on hand for Saturday.
Swimming Meet Success;
Interhall Softball Next
By JACK MILES
With the weather apparently casting an approving eye on interhall proceedings, softball is going to get under way, although not in the planned manner. Originally, it was to have been a roundrobin tourney, but the lack of time necessitates a sudden death elimination. Play wil be divided into three divisions: Civilians, ROTC’s, and V-12’s. The winners in the three divisions will then meet for the campus championship.
The swimming meet held May 16 proved to be successful, although not as successful as officials had hoped. They had anticipated a longer list of entrants. High-point honors for the meet went to Fitzke, who scored fifteen points, and second-place was shared by three boys, Witucki, Brownell, and Ray, who garnered six points each. The results:
50-yard free style: Won by Cullan; second, McDonnell; third, Brownell. Time: 26.8.
After their competition at Columbus, the locals go to Iowa City to meet the Iowa Pre-Flight Seahawks on June 1
and 2. The Irish appear at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station on June. 6 and oppose the Northwestern Wildcats in the next home game on June 8.	.
50-yard breast stroke: Won by Fitzke; second, Toddy; third, Tully. Time: 31 seconds.
200-yard free style: Won by Fitzke; second, Witucki; third, Stockwell. Time: 2:27.2.
Diving: Won by Ray, with 158.2 points; second, Griffin, with 137.3; third, Lee, with 100.6.
50-yard back stroke: Won by Brownell; second, Madden; third, Griffin. Time: 33.6.
100-yard free style: Won by Schneider; second, Witucki; third, Tully. Time: 1:10.1.
75-yard medley: Won by Fitzke; second, Limont; third, Ray. Time: 48.5.
West. Michigan Meet
Track Team Tomorrow
The Notre Dame track team will compete in its last dual meet of the season tomorrow when it travels to Kalamazoo to face the Western Michigan tracksters. The Irish squad will be seeking to win its second dual meet of the season out of the three scheduled. The Irish opened
their season by whipping Illinois Tech, but fell before the powerful Illinois squad last week.
Notre Dame looked fairly strong in all events except the broad jump and half-mile against Illinois and should experience little difficulty in defeating the Broncos. The Western Michigan team was the winner of the Michigan Intercollegiate meet held two weeks ago. The boys from Michigan will be led by sucn men as Bill Moore, National AAU and Drake Relay pole vault champion, Ralph Welton in the broad jump and Bill Porter in the sprints and hurdles, as they attempt to down Notre Dame.
Two Officers Transferred
It has been announced that two naval officers at the Midshipman school at the University have been transferred to other stations. They are Lieut. Commander John C. Thorn, medical corps, U. S’. N., and Lieut. Commander George M. Bloom, U. S. N. R.
Commander Thorn will report to sea duty on the West coast and Commander Bloom is to become the officer in charge of the Naval Reserve Educational center in San Francisco.
Commander Bloom, head of the navigation school, came to the University from the Naval Midshipman’s school at Columbia University in New York.
Commander Thorn, wearer of a presidential unit citation and four battle stars on his Asiatic ribbon, reported for duty at Notre Dame after serving in the Pacific with the Marines.
George Murphy, *42
Killed on Okinawa
Marine Lieutenant George Murphy, captain and right end of the 1942 football team, has been reported killed in action on Okinawa on May 15. George received his degree in Physical Education in December of 1942 and won three monograms during his life at Notre Dame.	’
George was the father of a baby boy who was born the day before George left the west coast for the Pacific theater. John Murphy, George’s older brother, was a monogram winner as an end on the football team in 1935.
Lieut. Murphy is well remembered on this campus as an individual representative of true Notre Dame ideals. It was in recognition of this fact that his teammates elected him captain of the 1942 football squad. The Scholastic wishes to extend its sympathy to his wife, son, and family.
12
Louisiana Club Meets
Plan By-Laws, Smoker
The organization meeting of the Louisiana club was held this past week in the Law building and tentative plans were considered.
The Louisiana club passed out of campus existence in 1936 and numerous attempts to reorganize it have been prevented due to the frequent shifting in the student body, which also destroyed many other state and regional clubs.
Two committee’s were appointed, as the club rushed activities in preparation for the coming summer semester. The committee on by-laws is made up of Mark Butirich, John Batton, Charles Joiner, and Pat Gallaugher. The committee on the coming smoker consists of Roy Cangelosi, Joe Gehring, and George Despot.
Elections were postponed until the next meeting, so that all who might have been unable to attend the first meeting would be able to participate. The next meeting will be held in room 1 of the Law building, Wednesday, May 30, at the previously scheduled time.
All students from Louisiana, whether civilian or navy, are eligible for membership in the club, and are requested to attend the coming meeting. Anyone desiring further information may contact Mark Butirich, Zahm hall.
No Formal Invitations
For June Graduation
Due to the regulations issued by the War Committee on Conventions of the Oifice of Defense Transportation, the University will not issue any official invitations for the coming commencement exercises to be held on June 22.
Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, has announced that no formal invitations will be printed for the graduating seniors by that office, in keeping with the University’s announced policy.
Veterans Meeting
The Veterans Club will meet in the auditorium of the Engineering building Monday, May 28, at 7:30 p.m., Acting President Tom Ferrieter, announced.
Introducing...
By JACK MILES
In the spotlight, and very deservedly so, is the first Negro athlete ever to win a monogram at Notre Dame, Frazier Thompson. With his seconds in the 100- and 220-yard dashes against Illinois, the young speedster brought his point total to thirteen, one more than the number required for a letter.
Frazier attended and was graduated from John Bartram Senior High School in Philadelphia. Strangely enough, while there he did not participate in athletics. With him, studies came first and outside activities followed, if they did not interfere with his schoolwork.
Soon after graduation, he entered the Navy and was assigned to the V-12 school at Notre Dame. For two semesters he concentrated solely on his PreMed studies; but in this, his third semester, he decided to go out for track, because he had “always been pretty fast, and could usually beat the other boys in running.” His decision was a wise one, as statistics prove.
Frazier is nineteen years old, reaches five feet, 7finches into the air, and tips the scales at 152 pounds. His ambition is to be a GOOD doctor. He shows no favoritism toward any particular food. He goes for it, just as long as it is well-cooked. He has two people whom he rates as tops, his mother and his girl. He loves to read, and also enjoys listening to the excellent type of music played by the King Cole Trio. Incidentally, that fine arrangement by the trio of “Paper Moon” is the foremost item on his song list.
His outstanding sports thrill is as yet unrealized, but we are sure it will not be long in coming. That will be when he leads the field home in the hundred-yard dash. He confesses to one
When romantic thoughts in spring demand
GIFTS
especially for "her" '
Visit

126 N. Michigan Street
all-conquering fear. The fear is that track coach “Doc” Handy will enter him in the* open quarter-mile, which action “Doc” has threatened to perform for some time now.
He would not trade the time he has spent at Notre Dame for anything, and he is hopeful that he can live up to the standards and ideals for which Notre Dame stands. There’s not much chance of his going wrong in our opinion, for he seems to be doing a pretty good job of living up to Notre Dame tradition and ideals right now.
When you’re down-town . . .
Books • Stationery Greeting Cards ’ Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
---------Try Our	■ । ■
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
13

GENE DIAMOND
Gene is a pre med navy trainee with a cum laude average that looks very large considering the fact that Gene is a little fellow. . . but despite his size, Gene rates around this campus. . . and from what he says, he was in the big time before entering Notre Dame.
He graduated from Mount Carmel high in Chicago and was class saluta-torian. Gene was the state high school oratorical champion and captain of the track and cross country teams. He also served on the editorial staff of the school’s newspaper and yearbook.
Gene entered Notre Dame the way most of us do, as a freshman, but the comparison ends there, for Gene, continuing his high school feats, remained in the limelight. He won the freshman oratorical contest and was a finalist for the Breen oratorical medal. Gene has been a Scholastic man for three semesters and has held the position of Navy Associate Editor for the last two.
He is a member of the committee for the present V-12 Ball and served in a similar capacity for the previous two. As a sophomore, he captured a second place medal in the University wrestling championships. Last semester, Gene was a runner-up in the novice boxing championships.
At present, he is a member of the University track squad and was No. 1 Notre Dame one-half miler in the meet with Ilinois.
He says that he fulfilled a life lo-ig ambition when he came to Notre Dame, but we think he is just being polite. . . his character is supposed to be a little short of perfect, but then, maybe his buddies (who supplied this information) were being polite this time. They also tell us that he likes steak, Charlie Spivak’s music and a dainty little creature that lives across the highway.
Gene picks up his duffel bag for new territory, for at the end of this semester he will receive an assignment to medical school.
He is probably reading this column now and gloating over the fact that he finally made it, but, after all, he did deserve it. . . . have a nice time at the V-12 ball. . . and tell her hello for me.
Must a summer shirt be a country cousin?
Arrow says “No!”
- . . . and proves it with city bred summer shirts that are comfortably cool, yet as neat and smart as any you own.
k SHIRTS and TIES

otto-
Arrow shirts have the famous Arrow collar to take you handsomely through the hottest days. They have the renowned “Mitoga” athletic fit. They are Sanforized* labeled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%).
$2.24 up.
Arrow summer ties $1 and $1.50. Yours for a better cooling system. See your Arrow dealer today!
14
"One. Mom. ^elld, AnM&d'
-------------------------------
Handsome. New Summer
ARROW SHIRTS
V7"OU can be sure that the best-groomed men-w®xy.pampus are ■Arrow addicts. Arrow shirts are tailored with finesse, the collars lie smooth and stay smooth, in defiance of summer heat.
Kasper Elected New Roundtable President
At a regular meeting of the Economic Roundtable held Thursday evening, May 17, officers for the coming semester were elected.
Bob Kasper, senior economics major from Indianapolis, Ind., was elected president. Bob has been an active member of the club for three semesters, and currently gave an informative talk on Japan.
Charles Bartlett, junior politics major from Cuba City, Wis., was chosen as secretary and treasurer.
President Michael Garry and Secretary-Treasurer Harry Walters, the outgoing officers, were complimented on a successful semester.
Prof. Riley First to Translate Spanish Novel
Philip Henry Riley, a professor in the Spanish department at the University of Notre Dame, with the aid of Hubert James Tunney, has translated for the first time, Alarcon’s The Scandal, a widely read Spanish masterpiece.
Pedro Antonio de Alarcon was one of
Prof. P. H. Riley
To honorably discharged ex-servicemen
Do your suits a favor — get some Arrow ensembles today. Ties and handkerchiefs in smart new patterns designed especially to wear with the shirts.
ARROW SHIRTS $2.24 up
ARROW TIES $1, $1.50
You'll find selection at Gilbert's—the largest possible stock in popular items of men's clothing. We think you'll find what you like here at South Bend's largest store for men!
For Notre Dame Men, it's TAXI FREE to the Modem Gilbert's.
HERE'S AN "HONORABLE DISCHARGE"
BUTTON
with our compliments
A great badge of honor . . . that Honorable Discharge button. You should wear it proudly ... it tells the world that you were prepared to give your all, for your country.
As a tribute to you, here is an Honorable Discharge button we'd like you to accept, without charge, of course. We know you already have one . . . but another might be very useful.
Bring your discharge papers with you. (The button can only be given to ex-servicemen in person.)
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
the most famous literary men of 19th century Spain. Even though he is best known for his The Three-Cornered Hat, no other book by him aroused a greater outcry than The Scandal, a riotous picaresque tale. It brought Spanish literary and clerical circles to their feet as it indicated that a former anti-clerical and revolutionary writer had become a supporter of the Jesuits. It is constantly being reprinted in Spain and Latin America for it is an engrossing story. The story presents a realistic and sneering picture of the high life in nineteenth century Madrid. Its characters, and particularly two sets of confused lovers and one lovable Jesuit, are compounded, in the equivalents of life, of ambition, weakness and heroism.
Mr. Riley and Mr. Tunney went ahead with their translation without assurance of publication. As a result of their labors, Alarcon’s famous novel now appears before English speaking readers for the first time.
The book is 382 pages in length and is published by the Alfred A. Knopf Co. of New York. It is priced at $2.50.
.	—Louis Hafne-"
New Seminar Convenes
The first meeting of the Seminar of Great Books was held May 21st in the Main Building. The meeting was presided over by Dean Robertson and he explained the purpose of the seminar. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C. S. C.„ and Mr. Willis Nutting, professor of history, have consented to become the leaders for the group.
The seminar will meet every Monday and Friday from 7 until 9 o’clock.
15
V-12 REGIMENTAL BALL TONIGHT!
Today is May 25. For every member of the Notre Dame V-12 Unit, this evening, with the V-12 Regimental Ball on schedule, should be a gayly eventful one, long to be remembered. Plans for this gala affair, which will probaby be the last of the traditional Notre Dame Navy V-12 Balls, have been in development for over a month, and all indications unmistakably predict a most enjoyable evening for all who attend.
For those who wish to “go on dancing” there will be an informal dance at the Rockne Memorial tomorrow night, with our own V-12 Band on hand to furnish the music. A swimming -and diving exhibition has been planned by “Zeke” Zuchowsky Sp. A/lc, for intermission, and should be well worth coming in from the “garden sun roof” to see.
Tomorrow afternoon the V-12 Unit will be on dress parade in a regimental review to be held on the drill field. Im
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
mediately after the review an exhibition tennis match will be played.
A military field mass is to be celebrated Sunday morning at the memorial entrance to Sacred Heart Church, here on the campus. Admittance to guests will be granted at the Service Men’s Center Sunday afternoon.
Well, the rest is up to you, but be careful of your cosmetic hearts. Hope you have a wonderful week-end!
❖
SO THE ENGINEERS THINK THE PRE-MEDS "ODD"
Word has been merrily drifting around that the deck candidates and the engineers think that the pre-meds are just a little “odd.” We are not going to feebly deny these floaters and save ourselves, but will have much more fun pulling our “buddies” overboard too.
Some months ago the South Bend Tribune contained an article which made
the general statement that the balmy breezes brought forth such strange sights as V-12 students from the naval Station at Notre Dame diligently practicing with yoyo tops. The “V-12 students” were in all probability engineers happily defying the law of gravity and reversing “what goes up, must come down.” The article failed to mention the well known fact that V-12 aero-engineers have been flying model airplanes for years to study aero-dynamics—and that is a pretty good excuse that a pre-med wouldn’t dare use.
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
"THE BEST FROM YANK"
Yank Magazine's best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle-front and camp.
Brave Men
Moral Conquest of Germany Mexico
American Guerilla in the Philippines The Father Brown Omnibook
Pride’s Way
Commodore Hornblower
The Upstart
Poor Child
Captain from Castile
A Lion Is In the Streets
The Wine of San Lorenzo
Quit for the Next
Border City
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE 127 W. Washington SL ’Tn the J. M. S. Building"
NERS
RU
16
Then there were the engineer roommates suffering happily from a slight case of “bottle fatigue.” One engineered a fire in the wash basin with lighter fluid. The other- excitedly yelled FIRE! Before he could engineer the fire to extinction it calmly burned out. “I’ll never touch another drop!”—of lighter fluid, of course.
Chubby Limont, Marty Wendell, and Zeke O’Connor have one big time standing on their heads with their feet against the wall. They merrily bounce forth and
“Droopley, we know you brushed your teeth this morning; you needn't brag about it."
back, seeing who can outlast and out-bounce the other two. His is the sublime and distinguished honor of bouncing the other two against the wall with all his remaining vigor, if any.
And the deck candidates and engineers still think that pre-meds are a little “odd.” We surely don’t think the same of them, do we fellows?
❖
SIXTY-FOUR DOLLAR QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK
Where did Strat Easter get the title “The Great Lover?”
What “famous” logic professor has been trying to sabotage our track team by giving them six month old, big cigars called The Tramp?
Why does Phil Luppi keep his hat in hiding and why is he writing the story of his life?
♦
NOON MUSTER ANNOUNCEMENTS
Trainees will refrain from throwing rain balls or the regularly scheduled rain will be discontinued. (It looks as though the schedule has been changed ,at least.)
! After weeks of deliberation the Secre-itary of the Navy, himself, has author-iized one hour extra liberty for Company E, for winning the, drill competition.
(This is not official, but Company E did get that extra hour.)
❖
THE GREEN BANANER; BY HARRY WAGNER AND JOHN DIAMOND
The other day while making the fateful trek to those hallowed halls at the Rock across the Dixie. . . June grads are all one-hundred years old and pachydermatous, but some don’t look a day over seventy-five. . . the punch at the Sophomore Cotillion. . . Sweet Briar. . . Across the Dixie. . . the Rock. . . Sports day. . .the Rock. . . the punch at the Freshman Formal. . . Across the Dixie. . . . Sweet Briar. . . etc.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30
INVIST IN VICTORY —BUY BONOS
Chimes Hinging Again
A pleasant reminder- of -the passing hours has been noted with the revival of the recurring ringing of the chimes in the tower of Sacred Heart Church. The hymnal chiming adds perceptibly to the religious atmosphere on the campus.
At seven in the morning the chimes ring out their first notes of “Holy God.” Various hymns dedicated to Our Lady recur intermittently throughout each day. At ten p.m., the chimes sound taps.
The chimes were recently repaired and set to ring automatically, after a lengthy silence due to deficient parts which could not be replaced because of wartime conditions.
17
NTEPS
PROA THE
QCSS BOX
By JIM REGAN
At the end of twelve games, Jack Barrett, pitcher-outfielder, is leading the Notre Dame batters with an average of .361. Barrett, who played in 11 of the games, has banged out 13 hits in 36 trips to the plate. Two other men on the Irish nine are sporting averages above the .300 mark, according to these unofficial figures. They are Captain Frank Gilhooley who has hit safely 15 times in 45 appearances at bat, and Neil Kelly who has an average of .325 based on 13 safeties in 40 times at bat.
* * * *
The Notre Dame record for these games is six wins, five losses and one tie. Jack Stewart is leading the Notre Dame moundsmen with three wins against a single loss. Jack Barrett has won two games while dropping two decisions and tying one. Johnny LeBrou has been winning pitcher in one game while finishing on the other side of the ledger in two engagements.
* * * *
Frank Gilhooley is the only member of the squad to hit a home run this season. This was clouted against Bunker Hill Sunday. “Gil” has also banged out two triples to lead his teammates in this department while he is tied for leadership in doubles—production with Jim McGurk, Billy Hassett, and Neil Kelly who all have two-base hits to their credit.
* * * *
Dave Murphy, member of the Notre Dame track squad for two seasons, was elected captain of the team for this season by his teammates last week. Dave, a member of the N.R.O.T.C. unit, competes in the dashes and anchors in the fine one-mile relay team.
* * * *
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
VMEN'S SHOP
Cleveland is the only American League club not broadcasting play-by-play accounts of its home games this year. All other1 teams have at least their home games broadcast by one or more stations.
- * * * *
There are 14,800 municipal tennis courts in 983 towns and cities of the United States. There are 2,300 municipal courts in as few as 10 cities, not including New York. Seven hundred and six clubs are members of the United States Lawn Tennnis Association and there are 777 non-member clubs. In addition to all the above mentioned, there are several thousand private courts. In 1939, before the start of the war, the International Lawn Tennis Association had a membership of 59 nations. Tennis, incidentally, is the only game played under* the same rules the world over.
* * * *
Venezuela recently became the sixth country to adopt a baseball postage stamp. Other countries who have had a baseball stamp are Columbia, Panama, Nicarauga, the Philippines and the United States. The United States stamp was issued during the game’s centennial year in 1939.
* * * *
The major leagues have but one lefthanded catcher since 1900. He was Joseph Wall, who played with New York and Brooklyn just after the turn of the century. There are no records of any left-handed infielders, first basemen excepted, who have played regularly in the major leagues.
* * * *
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS OF MAY 7-11:	1—The Boston Red Sox
have won five World Series without being defeated. The Boston Braves and
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Cleveland Indians won the only series in which they played. 2—No horse has ever won the Kentucky Derby more than once since it is a race for three-year olds. 3—The second largest number of home runs hit in a single major league season is 59, by Babe Ruth. Hank Greenberg and Jimmy Fox each hit 58.
*	*	* .h
QUESTIONS FOR THIS WEEK: 1— What American and National League teams have won the largest number of pennants? 2—What man and what woman have won the U. S. National singles championship the most times? . 3—What team has won the championship of the National Professional Football League the most times?
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
• ’
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Noire Deme, Indiana
18
N.D. Grad Pioneers Work on Cement Ships;
Their Wartime Record Amazes Officials
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
How would you like to ride on a ship that took seven torpedoes to put a dent in its side? That contained refrigerators for preservation of food and ice cream makers? A virtual floating department store. These ships, or barges, are the new Navy concrete ships brought into existence by a former Notre Dame graduate, Carlos Tavares, class of 1927.
Mr. Tavares graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in Civil Engineering. While he was here, he specialized in baseball, basketball, soccer and tennis and was the captain of the tennis team. After graduation he returned to China, the place of his birth, to put his knowledge to work.
When the Japanese invaded China, he was at work on a $7,500,000 bridge at Hangchow with five months work remaining on the bridge. He completed it in 650 days and then came to America. Here he dealt with many projects which required the use of cement, and when approached with the idea of a concrete vessel, he immediately accepted the proposition.
There are now some 91 of these ships in existence. Many of their accomplishments are still military secrets but a few have been revealed. They can house a generator capable of lighting 7,500 electric bulbs, a machine shop ready for immediate repair work, 66,000 barrels of fuel, and a complete line of depart-
Photographers Exhibit
Appearing in Library
A photographic exhibit of great interest and variety is appearing this week and next in the card catalog annex of the University library. The exhibit is made up of photographs made by the members of the South Bend camera club and was arranged for appearance here by the Rev. Edward Keller, C. S. C.
Thirty-two photographs are on exhibition in this series. After two weeks showing, a second group of pictures from the cameras of the club will appear, to run for the succeeding two weeks. Included in the present exhibit are still lifes, portrait studies, scenic views, trick shots and others.
Fr. Keller said the exhibits appearing at Notre Dame are of the many prepared by the St. Joseph county camera zealots, some of which are on tour. He added that the two exhibits showing here may be followed by an exhibit of photos by the V-12 camera club. The club was organized about a month ago by Fr. Keller, now has a membership of some twenty-five members and is gaining in liveliness and activity.—F. V. G.
ment store goods.
Mr. Travares had to meet many obstacles that were in his path. He required a new type of concrete capable of withstanding the pressure of the blow delivered by torpedoes.
One of these ships was being towed to its destination by a tug and attacked by a Japanese plane. No bombs struck the barge, but the tug was sunk with a full load of depth charges aboard. The concrete barge continued on its way, passing over the depth charges which were exploding directly beneath it. The barge was lifted out of the water but the sole damage suffered aboard ship occured when the captain struck the ceiling and was knocked unconscious.
An unusual feature of the ships is that they collect no bilge water, which is common with every other- type of ship. Furthermore, concrete does not mst’or rot as steel and wooden ships do.
Mr. Travares is now searching for some new and fascinating work to do with concrete. He is considering the possibilities of large floating islands in the middle of the ocean to be used as landing fields for international air travel, made of course, of concrete.
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3.1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
4O6-4OB TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2674
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGREGOR
Sportswear
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll'find them all at
MBERTSOO
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
19
\es, Chesterfields are packed with pleasure...for
ILDNESS ... COOLER SMOKING BETTER TASTE
your smoking enjoyment. Their RIGHT COMBINATION... WORLD’S BESJ TOBACCOS gives you the three things that mean all thep>enefits of smoking pleasure ...
HESmFIELD
• WOXIP'S -BEST TOBACCOS \
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myexs Tobacco Co,
REAL

