RASMUSSEN
MEN’S
SHOP
BOWL 'EM OVER. William F, Gorman, Meadville, Pa., holds the Ramussen award which he received last Tuesday night for participating on the 1949 Kampus Keglers' Intercollegiate Bowling team. Bill expects to bowl 'em over back Meadville this summer with his fine summer wardrobe. He wears a cool, Manhattan knit T-shirt ($2.50). Make a "strike" this summer yourself; get a few spares from the Rasmussen cool-clothing line: sharp T-shirts in plains, stripes, or fancies by Cooper, Wilson Brothers, and Van Heusen ($1.25 up); smooth sport shirts — we have 50 different colors to choose from — by Manhattan, Van Heusen, and Donegal with long sleeves ($3.50 up) or short sleeves ($2.95 up).
for
4
I
Campus Clothes
%
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
St.
10 6-108 MAIN
13 0 - 1 3 2 WASH INGTON

The Scholastic'.
Thank-You Note I
Editor:
The Junior Prom Committee wishes to express its most sincere thanks to all those who in any way contributed to make the recent Junior Prom the success that we all felt it was. Our special thanks go to those who worked to decorate the “Rock” and remained hard at work until late Friday to see that everything was proper for the evening’s entertainment. The bandstand, an original construction, had to be built against many obstacles but under the direction of Herm Hamilton, Jim Fisher, Jim Martin, Ray Espenan, Ed Farrell, Ken Lisy, Woody Richards, Mack Schaeffer, Dick McGolderick and Bill Bradley such obstacles were eliminated and an exhibit of workmanship appeared.
To those men who so willingly sacrificed then- time — Jim Curran, Paul Schlafly, Dick Brodeur, Jerry Begley, Bob Culligan, Ed Farrell, Sparkey Thornton, Dick Frankel, Ed Kelly, Bob Lally, Bill Eggers, Bob Rohlings, Bob Bosler, Bill Shanahan, Dick Leous, Giz Farrell, Bill Sheehan, Bill O’Hara, Jack Dettling, Mel Thornton, Lou Louro, Walt Murphey, Joe Shidler, Don Hel-linghousen, Ralph Dixon, Bob Schlosser, Jim Holway, and John Ryan, all under the able direction of Jim Conway — a vote of appreciation is due for the splendid job they did in order to give the proper atmosphere to the “Rock.”
Junior Prom Committee
Thank-You Note II
Editor:
We sincerely wish to thank all of our loyal friends who helped us so much in the recent campaign for senior class election. Although the entire party did not win, the two of us who were elected will try next year’ to prove that the confidence placed in us was not unfounded.
Again thanking all of our supporters and voters, we will continue to aim at an outstanding senior year.
Kevin O’Shea Bud Romano Verne Kelley Tom Farley
— That Certain Party
'Puli' From a Patriot
S-t-r-e-t-c-h those dwindling dollars
by GREYHOUND the low-cost, convenient way home
One way	One way
CHICAGO .........$	1.75 NEW YORK........4.90
BOSTON ........  16.40	PHILADELPHIA	...	13.50
BUFFALO _________   8.15	DETROIT ........  3.90
CLEVELAND________ 4.65	MEMPHIS ..... .	9.95
NEW ORLEANS....... 14.75	LOS ANGELES........	41.75
MIAMI___________ 22.55	WASHINGTON	...	12.25
MINNEAPOLIS______ 8.80	CINCINNATI....	5.45
LOUISVILLE ______  5.55	DALLAS........	17.25
ST. LOUIS........  6.30	MILWAUKEE ....... 3.05
Plus U. S. tax. Big EXIRA Savings on Round Trips.
When Notre Dame first asked for the establishment of a U. S. Post Office on the campus, there was a lot of hemming and hawing. The request was finally filled through the influence of a statesman you may have heard of ... a man named Henry Clay.
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
South Bend Union Bus Station MAIN at WESTERN	PHONE 3-8282
GREYHOUND
> _______
May 20, 1949
( I ii b >
N'Yawkers Plot Party
The Met Club’s annual summer dance has definitely gone by the boards, having been voted down at the last club meeting. Proposed in its place was an early June outing to be held at Playland, Rye, New York. The outing will be in the form of a-Dayline excursion up the Long Island Sound to Rye, an afternoon at the famed amusement park, and return by boat to the city late at night. A poll of members, taken by the hall representatives, will determine the date.
This outing will be the last function under the present administration of the club. President Begley announced the results of elections held May 11 as follows: president, Bob Murray; vicepresident, Al Laporte; secretary, Hank McCormack, and treasurer, Don Fager.
Osborn New Finance Prexy
Austin G. Osborn, of Lavellette, N. J., was elected president of the Finance Club at the group’s last meeting. Other new officers selected for next semester include Vice-President Arthur Arquilla,
of Chicago, and Cletus Hosbein, of St. Joseph, Mich., who will handle the combined chores of secretary-treasurer. Gorman Brock was presented with the Finance Club “Speech Award” for the best talk given during the semester.
La Raza Banquet
The La Raza Club will end its activities for this semester with a farewell banquet at Rosie’s next Thursday. Trophies will be distributed for the different championships, and souvenirs given to the seven graduating members.
Central III. Plans Dance
The Central Illinois Club wound up its campus activities for the current
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
W. E. Cyr. Prop.
CYR S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
school year recently with a picnic at the Notre Dame farm. Plans are now underway for the annual summer picnic to be held in Peoria sometime in August.
Officers were elected at the last club meeting to hold office for the coming year. They are Bob Finnegan, president; Bill Wombacher, vice-president; Bob Savage, treasurer, and Dave Amber, secretary.
LOST AND FOUND
One pair oi dark horn-rimmed glasses turned up missing recently on the campus. Will the finder please return to or contact Al Sullivan in Room 436 Zahm Hall?
5 Barbers Manicurist
Perfect for Golf ... and all outdoors!
McGREGOR DRIZZLER JACKET
10.95
McGregor’s famous “Drizzler” jacket with the new “Hugger” feature that keeps the jacket DOWN ... no matter how you swing or move. Styled in McGregor’s famed weather-repellent Drizzler cloth with the quick-exit zipper closing. New, soft fairway shades.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: BOB VAUGHN — 387 DILLON HALL
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Blow Your Own Nose
This, for reasons purely academic, is my last “Week.” So ends my 56-issue expose of Notre Dame life. So ends my one-man crusade to rid the world of history profs, departmental quizzes, and Eager. So ends my GI eligibility!
There is sadness in my heart when I think of leaving this, my Indiana home. Never again will I toddle through the glorious portals. of higher learning. Never again will I toddle through the ancient, tradition-steeped, ivy-covered Social Science Building.
Notre Dame, may the millionaires bless it, has changed a great deal in my four years here. I remember back in 1946 when I first plunked my Hanovers on this sacred soil. The food was really bad then.
The food has improved since then. When I first came here, beef gravy was used on hot dogs, mutton gravy was used on mystery balls, and hamburger gravy was used on veal. Now, beef gravy is used on green peas, mutton gravy is used on asparagus, and hamburger gravy is used to grease the dish washer.
I must admit, however, that my four years at Notre Dame have been years of action. I have watched the Student Council write more constitutions than the Fourth French Republic. I have watched the history department grow from a frivolous true-and-false quiz department to a bureaucratic, monolithic,
LAST ISSUE
This is the 27th and last "Scholastic" for this year. Our thanks go to all the people who so sincerely cooperated with us in publishing the magazine, to our readers, and to the dozens of staff members without whose long, hard work the "Scholastic" wouldn't have amounted to much. (For the latter, the Publications Banquet will be next Monday night at 7 o'clock in the East Dining Hall.) ... To everyone "Scholastic" wishes a long and happy summer vacation.—Editor.
10 % -f or-this-and-15 % -for-that, departmentalized, cellular* organization. I have watched Pop, the walrus-mustached dining hall handyman, shine the cafe door brass 4,703,401 times.
And now it’s all over — so, so soon. Tsk!
Robert J. Vierhile, 1917—?
(Inasmuch as Columnist Vierhile graduates this June, we are now on the lookout for another columnist. We herewith print a short biographical sketch of Vierhile’s life so that all prospective applicants can get some idea of the type of person we’re looking for. Send all applications, together with name and address printed clearly on the back of a ten dollar- bill, to: Scholastic, 118 Main Building, Notre Dame, Ind.)
Robert J. Vierhile was bom a wit. He showed early signs of talent by voting for Franklin D. Roosevelt as early as 1928. He was a quiz kid from birth and, by the time he was in the second grade, he was reading Westbrook Pegler and Dorothy Dix. Twelve years later, still in the second grade, he found his life had become a revolving door so he joined the Army and was sent to the Pentagon in Washington.
Vierhile distinguished himself in the service of our country by perfectly punctuating War Department Memo ADGCT—1402—Ml. He was awarded the good conduct medal with onyx cluster.
After the war, in 1946, Vierhile enrolled at Notre Dame. He did this in order to get two tickets to the Army-Notre Dame football game at Yankee Stadium.
At Notre Dame, he was immediately recognized as a genius and was inserted into the Scholastic as a columnist. His journalistic life was a constant series of frustrations. He hated St. Mary’s girls. His greatest single ambition was to have the Stratigon made into the Student Union. Always, his plans were stifled before they went off in his hands.
Vierhile’s future is already set. After he gets his diploma in Notre Dame stadium June 5, he will leave for Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Once there he will become the sole Lifebuoy salesman on the Vassar campus.
May 20, 1949
5
Entertainment
MAY 20
DRILL HALL—Senior Ball. The graduating class of 1949 swings wide the doors for the last social fling on the ND campus. With Freddy Martin on the podium, more than 1,000 Ball-goers will sand-paper the Drill Hall’s concrete floor from 10 until 2 a.m.
COLFAX (through May 25) — Flamingo Road. Joan Crawford, sporting a new blond coiffure and her customary shoulders, goes through an agonizing two hours. Every melodramatic cliche is tossed into this pot-pourri which was originally a flop on Broadway. They should have left it there.
PALACE (through May 25)—Life of Riley. William Bendix tries hard to bring this picturization of his highly successful radio characterization to the screen, but is brutally sabotaged by the scriptwriters.
GRANADA (through May 21)—Caught and Harpoon. James Mason, Barbara Bel Geddes and Robert Ryan star in the feature. If stoic-pussed Mason can’t do better than this one he had better pack up and go back to merry olde England.
MAY 21
INDIANA CLUB—Senior Tea Dance. Seniors, tired from the previous night’s festivities, 'will shuffle to the music of Herb Germann from 4 until 7 p.m.
WASHINGTON HALL—Rachel and the Stranger. Loretta Young, Robert Mitchum and William Holden take honors in this off the beaten track western. It’s good entertainment at its best.
MAY 22
GRANADA (through May 28)—Joan of Arc. Walter Wanger’s extravaganza starring Ingrid Bergman in the title role. It has been criticized for its grandiosity while other partisans have praised it for capturing the true spirit of the simple Maid of Orleans. See it, though, and decide for yourself.
STATE (through May 25) — Lady of Burlesque and Guest in the House. Barbara Stanwyck appears in the watered-down version of Louise Havoc’s (that’s her real name) book. Anne Baxter and Ralph Bellamy co-star in the latter flop.
MAY 25
WASHINGTON HALL—April Showers. Jack Carson and Ann Sothern appear as two old troupers. You’ve seen this one before, generally in technicolor, and, as usual, only the music saves it.
MAY 26
NOTRE DAME—The death knell tolls its ominous clarion. Finals and a week of agony start simultaneously.
JUNE 2
NOTRE DAME—School’s out and a repeat performance of the Homesteaders’ race is enacted. Home is the first thought in everyone’s crashed brain. Notre Dame is the last.
Sl50 • $200 • $330 * S5°°
Fashioned by Linkman
.Dr. Grabow Pipe Co. Inc. Chicago u. III
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral 114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Mon. 9-12: Thun. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Piatt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
6
The Scholastic
*Z4e 3bame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 May 20, 1949 No. 27
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR _______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT __________ Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN Features HARRY MONAHAN___________.*_______Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT._________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE ___________Advertising JOHN T. CLARK Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL ___________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Here is a handful of the 800
seniors who will receive their degrees June 5. Wally Kunkle got this shot way
back on Washington Day. The editors all agreed it would make a fine graduation cover, so we saved it. Besides being a good photographic study, it is an excellent study in human nature. Seniors sat through the orations with
mixed reactions; some slept, some manicured their nails, some paid attention. Since this is our last issue for the year, the Scholastic congratulates the gentlemen of ’49 and wishes them God-
Scholastic Opinion
The Work Was Well Done
The end of any year, be it calendar or academic, is a time for summing up and looking forward. Where stands Notre Dame and its student body at the close of this school year of 1948-49?
The University is still struggling along with an inadequate endowment trying to do an adequate job of preparing young men to live and work in an uncertain world. It still sticks to its old educational philosophy—teach the student how to live as well as how to make a living. How well it is succeeding, the individual student will have to decide for himself, ten, fifteen, or twenty years from now.
It’s certain, though, that ND’s basically religious spirit can’t help but make him a better, surer, stronger Catholic if he wants it to. If he doesn’t, he might as well go to Northwestern. The spirit of Notre Dame that orators, sports writers, and hack comedians jabber about isn’t at all what thev think it is. It isn’t screaming vour head off at a football rally or threatening to punch anyone who says Michigan would beat us. Stuff like that is nice, but it’s been dying out since the ’20’s when everyone was gay, and the game with Carnegie Tech looked like the biggest thing since the Amistice was signed.
No, the spirit of Notre Dame is a much deeper and more subtle thing than most people think. It comes from the strong and sincere attachment its students have for their religion. It comes from the religious atmosphere of the place, from the quiet example set by the humble priests and brothers students call their friends, and from the tremendous opportunities Notre Dame offers for spiritual growth and development. The University plans new buildings, expanded curricula, and new research projects, but it is in making a man a better Catholic that Notre Dame does its best work. This year the work was well done.
On the student-activity level interest and energy fell off some from last year’s peak. There seemed to be a disposition to keep things as quiet and simple as possible, either to avoid trouble or to get in more sack time. Several projects were planned and then abandoned or postponed for one reason or another. Once again the biggest and best thing Notre Dame students accomplished was the Student Relief Campaign which brought in $23,000 for the still suffering students of Europe. The total was less than last year’s, but that was to be expected; it happened at nearly all the Catholic colleges in the campaign.
The one really bad spot in student activities this year was the new Student Council constitution. Through misunderstanding and confusion the constitution still hasn’t gone into effect, nor has it been presented to the student body for ratification as originally announced. We don’t know what’s going to happen to it.
A few student leaders stood out this year, a few men who showed well how Notre Dame can be a workshop without parallel for Catholic leadership and responsibility. To these men Scholastic once again offers its “Men of the Year” citations this week (Page 14). Undoubtedly there is good argument for some men we’ve left out,, but after careful consideration, we think these are the ones who deserve applause most.
Their achievements were a big part of the picture at Notre Dame in the year 1948-49. The principles of Catholic leadership they and many others learned here, nurtured in Notre Dame’s religious spirit, may someday help bring the world a little closer to Christ.
speed in the great outdoors.
May 20, 1949
7
College Parade
The Boston College Heights announced in a banner headline that the student council has finally gotten a quorum.
Georgetown has installed an amplifier in its dining hall to play music wired from its radio station.
—Georgetown Hoya
Over 70% of the male students at CCNY expressed unfavorable opinions of the local co-eds. Why? They are conceited, too superior and unattractive.
—CCNY Campus
The state veteran’s bonus professor’s office at Loyola University (New Orleans) had to close down because there were not enough applicants.
—Loyola Maroon
An I.U. sophomore decided to test the provisions made for illiterates at Indiana. He signed a check with an X and had two friends witness his “mark.” The bookstore cashier was hesitant about cashing it, but she finally gave in.
—Indiana Daily Student
On vit de graves professeurs valser avec autant d’entrain que leurs eleves.
University of Laval Le Carabin
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
★
Alberts
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Speaking of "FINALS
^>SW.7.7AV.\7A%%7.,.7.7AWWWAWrt%WW^\SS>
ARROW’S
PUNJARA
is the last word in a cool
PUNJARA comes in several
colors and looks well with or
without a necktie. See your
Arrow dealer today for PUNJARA.
Long sleeves ... $5.95 Short sleeves ... $5.00
APPOW
silky, handsome and wash able sports shirt.
<	SHIRTS and TIES
f UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS <
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
8
The Scholastic
Nolte ^bame
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 27 MAY 20, 1949
MISS ANN MOONEY Guests . . .
Tony Roy Still ’in Danger’ After Surgery Last Week
Tony Ray was reported “still in critical condition” Wednesday morning in Chicago’s Wesley Memorial Hospital after a brain operation for injuries he received in an automobile accident a fortnight ago. He was removed from the hospital in South Haven, Mich, (where the accident occurred), last week and taken to Chicago where the surgery was performed last Saturday morning.
No blood clot was found in the operation, but doctors say Tony is still in danger. Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.S.c., assistant director of student welfare, said it was still too early after* the operation to tell how successful it might have been. He said that Tony responds to treatment and does have some moments of recognition, but that he is still in a coma most of the time. Tony’s parents have been by his bedside since shortly after the accident happened two weeks ago.
Meanwhile many special prayers are being offered on the campus for the recovery of Tony and the other students injured in the crash. The Notre Dame unit of the AROTC and the Knights of Columbus, of which Tony was an active member offered Masses and special
(Continued on Page 32)
Freddy Martin Plays for Capacity Crowd Tonight at Annual Senior Ball in Drill Hall
Tonight in the Navy drill hall 650 seniors and their guests sing their social swan songs to Notre Dame as Freddy Martin’s 18-piece orchestra provides the music for this, the Senior Ball.
An evening of dancing in the cabaret-styled drill hall combined with a Saturday afternoon tea dance at the Indiana Club feature this two-day fling for Notre Dame’s largest graduating class.
Reigning as Queen of the Ball will be
MISS GLORIA McQUILLEN Senior Ball Queen
Miss Gloria McQuillen, Mt. Lebanon, Pa., a graduate of Mercyhurst College. She will be the guest of Senior Class President Pat Costello.
Miss McQuillen will be attended by three guests of honor: Miss Mary Jean Vynalek, Chicago, Ill., will be escorted by Marty Wendell, class vice-president; Miss Ann Mooney, Scranton, Pa.- will be escorted by Jim McLaughlin, class secretary; and Miss Gwen Allebaugh, Warwick Neck, R. I., will be escorted by Don Murphy, class treasurer.
Decorations for the ball include a huge Notre Dame class ring, set with a 14-karat blue mazda lamp. Both sides of the dance floor will be lined with round
white pillars and trimmed hedges. Beneath soft lights—so soft you will scarcely be able to identify your date— there will be several hundred tables, reserved for individual couples and groups.
Dancing will continue from 10 ’til 2 a. m. in the Drill Hall. The special 3:30 a. m. permissions offer ample time for the gentle goodnights.
Feature of the Senior Ball is the smooth, sophisticated music of Freddy Martin, his “singing” saxaphone, and his orchestra. Martin, noted for his popularization of classical music, brings a versatile orchestra to the Notre Dame campus. Merve Griffin, featured vocalist, Art Devaney, talented pianist, and the Martinmen, noted novelty harmonists can do almost anything under the musical moon.
Saturday’s tea dance at the Indiana Club, featuring the music of Herb Ger-mann’s orchestra, will give the ballgoers, whose legs might have tightened up a little the night before, a chance to shuffle out the kinks. Dancing will continue unabated from 4 ’til 7 p. m.
Arrangements have been made with the Moreau Seminary choir to sing special music at the 9 o’clock Sunday Mass.
MISS MARY IEAN VNYALEK ... of Honor
May 20, 1949
9
THEATER ENDS YEAR — A self-appointed deputation, whose purpose is the banning of a provocative book, descends upon Canon Skerritt's rectory in this scene from Paul Vincent Carroll's play, “Shadow and Substance." The successful presentation last week was the final offering of the University Theater for the year.
Final Preparations Made for 6400 Guests Expected to Witness 104th ND Graduation
By WALT COLLINS
For seniors, only the specter of final exams stands in the way of graduation weekend. Ten or twelve hot, weary hours of blue books and proctors are the only obstacles between them and the Stadium. Thursday, June 2, will bring the last exams. Underclassmen will pack up to leave. But some 6400 guests of the Class of 1949 will move into town to swell the transient population. For the men of ’49, the end is in sight.
The administration has substantially completed plans for the weekend of June 4-5. With a few possible minor changes, the activities will run something like this.
Friday, June 3, will see preliminary entertainment for early comers. The ND baseball team will take on Western Michigan on Cartier Field on Friday afternoon. In the evening, the band will present an open-air concert on the quadrangle. The concert will begin at 7:30 and will last approximately an hour.
On Saturday, the exercises really get under way. At 9:30 a.m., the seniors will file into Sacred Heart Church for the last class visit to the familiar shrine. From there, they will go to the Navy Drill Hall for Class Day exercises, which are slated for 10 o’clock. Opening the
activities, Senior Class President Bernard Patrick Costello, of the College of Commerce, will deliver an introductory address.
The officers of the Navy and Air ROTC units will then receive their commissions. Awards of honors and prizes will follow, and the class oration will be given by William W. Pfaff, III, of the College of Arts and Letters. The valedictory address will be presented by George Randolph Schrodt, of the College of Science. All guests are invited to these exercises and no tickets will be required.
Open House Slated
At 1:30 p.m. Saturday afternoon, there has been scheduled a faculty “At Home” in the offices and laboratories of the several colleges. This will run to approximately 3:30. At 2:30, the baseball team will again take on Western Michigan on Cartier Field. At 4:30, there will be a reception for the families of graduates, sponsored by the administration. This will be held in the Lounge of the Rockne Memorial. At 6:30, another Band Concert will be given in the quadrangle, followed at eight o’clock by a Glee Club Concert in (Continued on Page 29)
Clark Rejects Witch Hunts in Law Talk
Speaking before the graduating seniors of the Notre Dame College of Law at the annual Hoynes banquet last Friday, Attorney General Tom C. Clark declared that less than one-sixth of one per cent of the 2,000,000 federal employees who underwent the recent loyalty test against Communists required further investigation.
The attorney general, who was introduced by Assistant Attorney General Alex M. Campbell, told the assemblage that despite charges that the government is “honeycombed with subversive elements ... no witch hunt has blotted, or will blot, our record of equal justice to all. We are as determined to protect the innocent as we are to prosecute the guilty.”
Most of those investigated were cleared, said Clark, although several were dismissed and a few resigned in the course of the inquiry.
“America’s destiny is clear,” observed Attorney General Clark. “It is to lead the world in humanity and kindness— in happiness and security — and in good will toward men.”
Nearly 400 attorneys and Notre Dame law students attended the Practicing Law Institute, which featured a talk by Federal Judge Luther W. Swygert of the Northern District of Indiana on “Federal Rule of Civil Procedure.” “Will Clauses and Their Tax Consequences” was discussed by Notre Dame law professors William D. Rollison and Jack R. Miller, while former’ Judge of the Appellate Court of Indiana Dan C. Flanagan reviewed “Indiana Pleading and Practice.”
Serving as co-chairmen of the Hoynes banquet were Notre Dame law students John Witous and James White, both of Chicago. John Hyland of Penn Yan, N. Y., is president of the Notre Dame Law Club which sponsored the banquet. Law student James Cassidy of Peoria, Ill., served as coordinator.
Science Building Plans Get Boost With Gifts of $233,000
A total of $233,817.87 out of a necessary $1,750,000 has been contributed this year by alumni and friends toward the erection of the proposed Science Building, it was announced this week by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., Executive Assistant to the President. Building opeartions will begin as soon as funds are available.
Of the total amount contributed so far $138,532.87 was given by alumni and $95,285 by non-alumni friends of the University.
10
The Scholastic
Burns, Finn and Four Other Seniors to Receive 'Dome' Awards for Service to Notre Dame
Winners of this year’s annual DOME awards, given to graduating seniors for outstanding service to the University and the student body, have been announced by Dick Cullen, editor of the Dome. Ernie McCullough, John Walk-
KEVIN HARRIGAN
Catholic Action Body Meets in Vet Rec Hall
A general meeting of Catholic Action group representatives in the South Bend area was held in the Vet Rec Hall. Main attraction of this gathering, presided over by Mr. Bernie Bauer, president of the Federation of Catholic Families in South Bend, was an address by Mr. Patrick Crowley, ’28, head of Catholic Action in the Chicago diocese.
Mr. Crowley, a prominent Catholic lawyer, is particularly interested in the Federation of Catholic Family groups. He appealed to women to foster such groups on the grounds that “women are practical, while men tend to pontificate.” He also urged Catholics to study closely the life of Christ, “the greatest leader.”
Answering a question as to possible conflict between the ever-growing C.A. groups and parish organizations, Mr. Crowley explained that a minimum of conflict would occur" as C.A. works through and with these groups.
Also on the program were talks by Jim Poat, campus YCS president, John Baggert of the South Bend Federation of Catholic Family Groups, and Miss Shirley Shoemaker, representing the YCW of South Bend. ’	•	. . •
er, Leo Barnhorst, Lou Bums, Kevin Harrigan, and Frank Finn were selected from a field of 23 nominees by an eight-man committee of juniors to receive the honorary keys at the combined Publications Banquet next Monday night.
Two of those honored by the Dome, Louis J. Burns, chairman of the Student Relief Campaign and captain of the fencing team, and Francis F. Finn, president of the Debate Club, were also named as winners of Scholastic “Man of the Year” awards (see story in this issue).
Ernest J. McCullough traveled from Alberta, Canada, to earn his bacheloi" of arts and letters degree in January. Majoring in philosophy, he was graduated magna cum laude—no mean feat in view of his many activities. President of the Wranglers, member of the University Symphonette, and on the editorial staff of the Juggler, Ernie also earned three varsity letters on the track team, and captained it during his last season.
John P. Walker, editor of the first postwar Dome, has also been feature editor and photography editor of the Scholastic, president of the Commerce Forum, secretary of the Student Council, and a member of the Blue Circle. Majoring in marketing in the College of Commerce, he will receive a bachelor of science degree, cum laude. John claims Elgin, Ill., as his home.
Leo A. Barnhorst, hailing from Indianapolis, Ind., won three varsity letters in basketball and was named on several All-American teams. This June, Leo will be the proud owner of a bachelor of science degree from the College of Commerce with a major in accounting. He is also president of the Monogram Club, secretary of the Indianapolis Club, and active member of the Dillon Catholic Action Club.
Kevin P. Harrigan was kept busy during his senior" year promoting a new constitution for the student body as president of the Student Council. He was active in the Knights of Columbus and the YCS, and president of the Liturgy Club. Kevin comes from Brooklyn, N. Y., and will receive a bachelor of arts and letters degree, cum laude, with a major in English.
All six of the Dome award winners have appeared at least once in Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.
May 20, 1949
H
JOB WELL DONE — Lou Bums (left), national chairman of the Student Relief Campaign, receives the final tabulations of this year's drive at ND — and a check for the net total collected, $22,817.20 — from campus chairman Jack Dempsey. Biggest single contribution for the fund, which will aid the students of war-ravaged countries in Europe and Asia, was netted by the car award donations — $19,051.50.
Studebaker President Commends Research At Annual Engineering Education Conference
Engineering teachers and men active in industry got together on the campus last weekend at this year’s annual meeting of the Illinois-Indiana section of the American Society for Engineering Education.
Principal speakers at the meeting were Harold S. Vance, Chairman of the Board and President of the Studebaker Corporation; C. J. Freund, Dean of Engineering at the University of Detroit and President of the American Society for Engineering Education; and N. W. Dougherty, Dean of Engineering at the University of Tennessee.
Mr. Vance spoke on the general subject, “Industry Looks to the Colleges.” “Industry is fully aware that there can be no applied science without pure science,” he declared. “If industrial research is to continue vigorously, pure research in our universities and colleges must continue to supply industry with the general principles it needs for the solution of specific problems. And industry, you may be sure, will attempt to apply those principles to every-day life just as quickly as they are made known and placed at its disposal.”
Industry, according to Vance, wants
men and women who know how to learn, who have enthusiasm and initiative in their work. However a knowledge of science alone is not enough. Unless colleges teach their students that the spiritual as well as material traditions of man shape his thinking and actions, then they will have failed in their task, the Studebaker president said.
Dean Freund stressed that there is “need for much better teamwork between engineers in plant and field and the teachers of engineering.” He pointed out that in spite of recruiting activity, engineering research, consulting assignments and the like, the fact remains that “too many industrialists are not informed concerning the colleges of engineering.”
The election of the new staff of officers was carried through at the business session of the meeting in the form of a single motion passed unanimously. W. D. Drinkwater, instructor in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame, was elected a member of the executive committee for 1949-50. R. J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, will serve on the committee, ex officio, as immediate past chairman.
New Germ-Free Lab To Open Next Month
As work on the new laboratory building neared completion, James Reyniers, research professor of bacteriology, announced this week that preliminary tests with ND’s new germ-free animal tanks •will begin within 30 days. Research in germ-free life will receive tremendous impetus when the new project, under the direction of the Laboratories of Bacteriology of the University of Notre Dame, begins active operation.
The new LOBUND building, under construction for more than a year, contains equipment for raising animals in an environment which null.prevent any outside contamination. Tests on the tanks used will continue for approximately three months, after which the staff will conduct further tests with animals for six months more. Professor Reyniers expects to begin actual research in about a year’s time.
“We’ve just about overcome the main problems,” said Reyniers, “and there are only a few minor details to iron out.”
The research animals will be kept in a huge germ-free tank, accessible to the technician only from a purification tank. Developing a germicide to completely purify the attendant was a big problem. Another difficulty which has now been overcome was inventing a suit which would protect the technician but still permit him to work freely inside the main tank. The suit to be used is made of light plastic, capable of withstanding the de-contamination showers.
Professor Reyniers, who directs the project, has been working on the development of germ-free environment since 1931. He points out that scientists have never before been able to work with life free from all germ influence. The first problems to be solved are the real nature of germ-free life and the reactions and characteristics of animals living in an absolutely pure state.
The LOBUND staff includes over 52 members, including Mr. Reyniers’ assistants, Mr. Philip Trexler and Mr. Robert Ervin, both associate research professors of Bacteriology.	—Jack Powers
What's in a Name?
You won’t find St. Joseph Hall listed in the University bulletins or on any of the maps made in the past 30 years, but it’s still here. During World War I an eager architect added wings to the already old structure; and it began a “new” career, alias Badin.
12
The Scholastic
Annual Grad Reunion To Begin on June 10
Spirited alumni from the 50th anniversary class of 1899 to the class of 1944 will descend upon the campus Friday, June 10, for the annual jamboree. The reunion will last for three days and has been purposely postponed a week in order not to conflict with graduating exercises.
Registration will continue all day Friday in the Law Building at which time class caps will be distributed to the classes of 1899, 1914, 1919, 1924, 1929, 1934, 1939 and 1944. A golf tournament, swimming and tours on Friday afternoon will be climaxed by special class gatherings that evening. Walsh, Badin, Dillon and Alumni Halls will quarter the returning grads.
Saturday’s festivities will begin with class Masses in residence halls. Softball games between reunion class teams and movies in Washington Hall will follow. A President’s luncheon for the Silver Anniversary class of 1924 will be held in the dining hall at noon. A seminar: “Notre Dame and the World,” will be held in the Law Auditorium in the afternoon with Dean Manion, of the Law School, presiding. The reunion’s climax will be reached that night with the Alumni Banquet at which Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president, will speak. Francis Wallace, president of the Alumni Association, will preside and music and entertainment will complete the program.
Sunday’s program includes a special Mass for all alumni at 10 a.m., a Monogram Club luncheon, and breakfast meetings and luncheon meetings of class and professional groups.
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, is a member of the class of 1899 and is planning special entertainment for his fellow graduates. Mr. William R. Dooley, secretary of the Alumni Association, is in charge of the reunion.
Graduating Seniors to Get 'Dome* Copies in August
The 1949 edition of the Notre Dame Dome is scheduled to roll off the presses into the hands of this year’s graduates some time in early August. Editor Dick Cullen and his Walsh Hall crew have been working steadily with typewriter, flash gun, and imagination since the early days of September.
Ranking as the foremost improvement of the coming Dome is the added space to be given football and basketball, student activities, and also the increased number of photographs.
May 20, 1949
REPORT ON THE MATERNITY FUND
Married Vet Council Rases $2500 m First Year
Nearing completion of its first school yeai- of existence, the Married Veterans Welfare Council is looking backward on a job well done and forward to another successful year. “The cooperation of the student body has been a stupendous encouragement to the married students here at Notre Dame,” said the Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., moderator of the Council since its birth last October.
Greatest aid from the group has gone to help finance arrivals of “third parties” in veteran families. A total of 106 babies, including three sets of twins,
FATHER MENDEZ
For third parties, a helping hand
have been born to vet families this school year, and the $200 hospital and medical expenses have been difficult to meet for many a down-and-out student family man. The average student and his wife earn $236 a month and have to dish out $215 for expenses, according to a recent survey, leaving little to take care of little Joe or Josie.
To help alleviate some of this lack of capital, a fund was established under the care of off-campus vet Hugh Rafferty. A total of about $2,500 was raised during the school year. Of this, $1,500 came from the Mardi Gras and the rest from various raffles and donations from student groups. From this fund has come many a help in making that bundle from heaven a little easier to take care of.
Besides maternity aid, the council has been helpful for married vets in many other fields. Housing has been located, jobs have been found, seminars and
study clubs have been conducted, and bridge clubs and other social groups have been organized. In addition, a food cooperative has been organized which enables the vet families to obtain food at 15% reduction in price.
Prospects for the next school year seem to be for a drop in the number of married students. Of the 507 married students at Notre Dame, 132 are scheduled to graduate in June, and 45 in August. A few new freshmen will be married men and some of the present single men vull get married during the summer, but the enrollment of married students next September should be down to about 400. John Begert, chairman of the Council, along with Hugh Rafferty and two or three others active in the organization will be graduated before next fall, so new blood will be needed in September to continue the work these men have managed so well.
“Other universities have inquired about our success,”. Father Mendez said, “and I think it is largely through the cooperation of the generous student body. I hope that when these young couples go back to their homes in Maine and California they will realize that young married couples need, and should get, a helping hand.”—Ray Doherty
— - — »
Jim Marheine to Lead New Cheering Squad
Senior Jim Marheine will head the ND cheerleaders for next year. Also lending vocal support to the Irish might will be seniors Tom Lotze and Ralph Holmes, and junior Dick Herrle. In addition to these veteran shouters, three new men will be chosen next Monday night from the following candidates: Mike Perino, Pat Crowe, Jack Wenning, Joe Pfaff, George Carden, Jack McGlinn and Ray Schaffer.
The early selection of new cheerleaders, a change from the customary practice of selecting them in September, has been planned so that the old cheers of the past season will be learned before the end of school. New cheers to be selected from the entries in the current contest will be learned next September before the first game.
For the satisfaction of those Trish fans enjoying the antics of Clashmore Mike II, who disappeared before the Navy game, a successor, Clashmore Mike III will be provided next season.
—Dave Driscoll
13
SCHOLASTICS
Men of the
Year
Last spring Scholastic inaugurated an annual feature to honor the men the magazine felt had contributed most to leadership in student activities during the academic year. There were 13 of these “Men of the Year,” plus one organization. This year Scholastic once again presents the men we think have provided the most outstanding examples of student enterprise, initiative, and perseverance. The list is shorter this year, partly because there were fewer leaders and partly because we tried to make our choices as selective as possible. Certainly there is plenty of room for argument on our selection; we recognize the work done by Jack Dempsey and John Moorhead on the Student Relief Campaign, ■ by Christy Walsh on the Bengal Bouts, by Kevin Harrigan on the Student Council, by the Blue Circle, and by many others. But, after considerable deliberation, we concluded that the men we have chosen made the most significant single contributions to student activities and to the prestige of the University this year.
As last year no athletes or workers on student publications have been picked — the former because their efforts have won deserved publicity all year and the latter because they did the picking. . . . These then, are Scholastic’s Men of the Year: Lou Burns, Frank Finn, Frank Cronan, Ernie Huffman, and one organization — the YCS. Their hard, thankless work made Notre Dame a better place.
The Old Campaigner
To Catholic college campuses all over the country this year has come a short, stocky 26-year-old collegian with a big smile, asking: “Buddy, can you spare $500,000?” He’s asking for the biggest handout in the history of Catholic collegiate charity, but the hand that he’s holding out knows*what it’s about and the smile is doing very well for itself.
The man behind the hand and the smile is, by birth, known as Lou Burns. But to hundreds of Catholic college leaders all over the nation and to the population of Notre Dame he is known -as “a ball of fire.” For Lou Burns, fencer, glee clubber, band member, Student Council delegate and relief drive chairman is a phenomenon among strange citizens — he is a college student doing big things in a big way. That, in a phrase, is why Scholastic nominates him as a Man of the Year.
Burns’ ascension to the throne as chairman of the Foreign Student Belief Campaign was a natural one. As head of the local ND campaign a year ago, he had driven a hard working committee of students on to a record breaking $34,000 collection, far outdistancing every other Catholic college in the country. He put on the biggest carnival ND
students have ever seen and kept everyone happy in the process. It was a great accomplishment.
This year, as the national boss selected by the NFCCS, Burns has done even more. Traveling extensively and energetically around the country he has set up a tight network of almost 150
LOU BURNS Money came in when Lou went out
FRANK CRONAN Somewhat reluctant awe
college relief campaigns that may bring in a total of close to $250,000.
To Burns this is all in a lifetime. And that lifetime has been filled, at various times, with a 60-month stretch in the Army, a captaincy of the ND fencing team which established the finest record of any Irish sword squad, and a smattering of such activities as helping revise the student constitution, singing in the Glee Club, and playing in the band.
What has made Burns’ labor bear fruit has been a combination of his own know-how and the personality and the ability to pick right men for right jobs. In Joe Conerty, national publicity chairman, and others, Burns has found the kind of men who can keep pace with his own dynamism. Conerty rates a great deal of the credit for the success of this year’s national campaign.
The world awaits Lou Burns in June. Lou Burns awaits the world with a big smile and a lot of knowhow.
The Booming Campus Voice
Blond, hulking Frank Cronan, engineering student of Howard Hall, doesn’t do too much talking. He lets radio station WND do it all for him. For two years this little arrangement has paid off in better campus listening for Notre Dame students and a higher campus rating for Cronan.
14
The Scholastic
WND, which two years ago was thought of as another fantistic student project which couldn’t be done, now ranks as one of the big features in daily student living. Its ten-hour, twentyminute long broadcasting session, jam-packed with music, sports and a giveaway show are standard fixtures on many a radio schedule at ND. Ovei- the past two years, WND has come a long way from its silent obscurity in the music room of Washington Hall. And the man mainly responsible is Cronan.
Cronan has done a big thing on campus, but then that’s the only way he’d have it. He’s a determined man. He speaks with an authority bred of knowledge. His staff works in a somewhat reluctant awe of his vitality and, as much as possible, beyond the range of his booming voice. He stands on no ceremony, holds no favorites, gives no quarter.
Cronan’s driving leadership brought .WND into existence, fought its fights when it couldn’t stand on its own two feet against top opposition, and has expanded its facilities and services into a deep-rooted, permanent part of Notre Dame life.
The station this year, after a sensational opening season, has kept hustling. Cronan would hardly let it do anything else. Despite the fact that some key staff members had been lost, Cronan pulled himself; Larry Gilling, his miracle-working business manager; hardworking program director Bob Norie; top announcer Joe Shelly; and chief engineer Jim Farrell into an effective, hard-hitting group who knew what they wanted and were out to get it. They wanted a bigger and better WND. They got it.
They added FM afternoon broadcasting and increased listenership over 50%; they got a “Date With WND” quiz show rolling which, under the direction of Gilling, has turned out to be the neatest smallpackage give away job in the area. Father Cavanaugh came over to say a nightly rosary and to talk about campus affairs; wire recordings were featured on campus news shows; “Request-fully Yours” hit a remarkably responsive cord in student listening. They got what they wanted, and the students got a campus station that stands up against the best in the country.
There will be a bigger and better WND next year — plans are already being made for expansion and better programming. Frank Cronan won’t be here to push these plans through the red tape and mass confusion, but they will get through and get done largely because he was there in the first place to see that the whole thing came to be.
FRANK FINN A matter of principle
All-American Arguer
A battle cry was aimed at another Notre Dame varsity as it began the long, postwar climb to the top. It was the debate team, and the cry was “We can’t beat you on the gridiron, but we’ll beat you in debate I” Now, thanks largely to the efforts of one Francis Finn, Notre Dame has achieved national recognition and top ranking in the fields of debate, discussion and extemporaneous speaking.
Francis Finn is a Texan bora and bred. The twenty-year-old senior was born in Dallas and makes his home in Denison. His high school academic record was outstanding; but, though he was valedictorian of his class, he had no previous debate experience when he came to Notre Dame in 1946. That year the young man pulled down the national discussion championship as a freshman and was off to the races.
Finn repeated his discussion championship win in his second year, the year that saw a struggling Irish debate team finish third in the Nationals and first in the Midwest. As a sophomore he was elected president of the Debate Club, a post which he has held for three years. It was in his sophomore year that Frank was awarded the first of three scholarships to the University, with the stipulation that he maintain an 85 general average.
Came junior year and the new captain of the debate team fell to third in the discussion championships; but, teaming with newcomer Bill Carey from Pittsburgh, Frank went on to garner more meet wins and trophies. It was in his last year on the squad that Frank hit the heights. This season, though the
team slipped to fifth in the nation, the Texan walked off with number two ranking as an individual speaker and his teammate, the sophomore Carey, picked off the seventh slot at the Nationals held at West Point. Again Notre Dame was first in the Midwest and first among Catholic schools.
The four-team, eight-man varsity began winning the close ones in ’48 with Finn sparking the attack. Catholic principles, till then overlooked or laughed into def eat. by judges, became powerful arguments. Catholic philosophy was spread by the campaigning Irishmen, who hurled their words with the best and didn’t have to take a back seat for anybody. This new approach— the introduction of philosophy into arguments which were considered to be strictly statistical stuff—was the brainchild of Finn and his fellow debaters.
How well the man from Texas and his crew did their job can be seen by the tribute paid them by Carnegie Tech’s squad after a debate with Notre Dame. “Notre Dame must subsidize debate. They couldn’t be that good without subsidization.” But they are, and Francis Finn is reason number one . . .
Pin-Splitter President
A year ago last October one of the most unusual campus activities had its inception and immediately caught on. It was the Kampus Keglers, an organization now numbering 36 campus clubs, formed to provide students who want to bowl with the opportunity to do so.
The organization is unusual in that it was started by the students, run by the
ERNIE HUFFMAN The boys tried too hard
May 20, 1949
15
students, and is for just the students. Its success can be attributed to the president of the Keglers and the man who got the whole thing rolling, Ernie Huffman.
Ernie, a 2-5-year-old business administration major, started the Keglers on a shoestring and helped it grow into the sound unit it is today. In just two years the club has grown from the original 24-team, two-league system into a 36-team outfit, curtailed in its size only because there aren’t enough alleys downtown to take care of more entries. For 17 weeks Ernie, his officers and five secretaries are kept busy tabulating averages and handicaps, working out schedules and oiling the machine which is the Keglers.
Not content with forming and managing the Keglers, Ernie brought a new varsity sport to the University when he organized the ND bowling team and gave it the initial push into conference competition. At the end of their first year of collegiate play, the boys wound up third in conference standings, mainly because they tried too hard to win for their coach and the vice-president of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference, one and the same Ernie Huffman;
As if forming the Keglers and the University bowling team wasn’t enough extracurricular work, Notre Dame’s Ned Day traveled across the Dixie and organized a league for the Belles of St. Mary’s. Like everything else he does, the league caught on.
When he puts down the bowling ball and resumes his role as a student in the College of Commerce, the Pennsylvanian still rolls along, here to the tune of a cum laude this June. He has served as a member of the Blue Circle and, at one time or another, as secretary and president of the Pittsburgh Club. For his outstanding work here Ernie was chosen to join the select “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities” for the present year.
Smiling Ernie Mill have “struck out” at graduation, but the Keglers will go on.
Not Wildfire but Sure Strides
Standing head and shoulders above all other campus activities during the past year has been the Catholic lay organization called Young Christian Students, more commonly referred to as the YCS. Not content to rest on its past achievements, as has been the practice of some campus organizations, the YCS has chosen to forge ahead, making almost unprecedented gains, always in the best interests of the student body.
Notre Dame is regarded throughout the country as the American cradle of this branch of the world-wide Catholic
YCS OFFICERS — Sitting: Jim Poat, President; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., chaplain; Jim Kelleher, vice-president; standing: Gene Myler, secretary, and Ray Martin, treasurer.
Action movement. Rev. Louis J. Putz, c.s.c., is credited with having brought the movement to the campus from Europe nine years ago. Since that time it has grown, not exactly like wildfire, but with a slow, determined stride, carefully selecting its members from those students who are sincere, capable and willing to work and work hard for their organization.
Scholastic feels that the YCS reached the age of majority during the past school year, even though there are some who might rightfully contend that it was a mature organization from the moment of its inception.
Champing at the bit, YCS jumped the gun and started its year of activities even before the fall semester started. Working with the Blue Circle, it sponsored the Freshman orientation program which was generally deemed a success beyond expectations. The incoming freshmen were royally welcomed by the members of these two campus groups, and felt completely at home by the time the semester began.
Four freshman groups (formerly called cells) were formed. They followed last year’s example by sponsoring a picnic with St. Mary’s and several hall socials.
Of the upper class groups, it was the engineering unit which started things off with its Town Meeting concerning the then imminent presidential elections. The commerce group took up the successful idea and sponsored three more such forums: two on labor-management • relations, and one on socialized medicine.
All the groups sponsored lectures by department heads earlier in the semester to help sophomores pick their ma
jor subjects for next year.
Other services that YCS rendered the student body was the non-profit B-X and the Campus Press. Also under its aegis was Concord. Although a national magazine, it was founded at Notre Dame and has been published here. Bob Reynolds, a graduating senior, was both its first editor and also past federation president of the YCS.
The campus-wide organization works under a so-called federation. The officers are elected by the various groups. The freshmen are the only class which is organized as a class. The upperclassmen belong to college groups, for it is felt that the problems which they discuss are more akin under such a set-up.
The present federation officers include: Jim Poat, president; Jim Kelleher, vice-president; Gene Myler, secretary; and Ray Martin, treasurer. It is to be remembered that although the organization has a number of guiding chaplains, it is not run by the clergy. Catholic Action throughout the world is a movement for and by the laity.
Only the material gains have been stressed here. There are others, undoubtedly far outnumbering the above mentioned items, but of such a nature as to be beyond tabulation.
Someday the YCS members will be attempting to bring this secularized world back to Christ. This year they have been attempting to awaken the student mind to the realization of such a task, and in so doing they have helped the student body in innumerable ways. With “a spirit of service” as their motto, the Young Christian Students have set down a pattern for what a real campus organization should be like.
16
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Vet Villagers to Vote
Residents of the “campus annex” will tramp to the polls tomorrow to elect replacements for the graduating officers of Vetville’s government. Retiring officials include Mayor Tom Kirchner and councilmen Jack Teske, Don Lndergren, Bill Thompson, Harry Williams, Jim McGraw and Ernie Okleshen.
Attention, Mr. Hearst!
“Experiences of a Veterinarian” will be the topic of a talk by Mr. Worley, practicing veterinarian in St. Joseph County, Monday night at 8:15 in Room 1 of the Law Building. A discussion period will follow. All students and faculty members are invited to the lecture, sponsored by the Rural Life Club.
Commerce Lecture
Allan H. Mogensen, one of the foremost management consultants in the United States will address commerce students Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Mr. Mogensen’s appearance here was arranged by Robert Hamilton, Racine, Wis., a member of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce.
Trustees, Advisors Meet
The ND Associate Board of Lay Trustees will meet here today and tomorrow with the advisory councils for commerce, science and engineering. It is the first joint meeting of the groups, which normally meet as units twice a year.
Spanish Movie Due
Su Mejor Alumno, a film in Spanish will be the final presentation of the Department of Modem Languages on the year’s foreign movie program. It’s slated for 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in Washington Hall. Well, that’s one way to prep for the Spanish departmentals!
Opportunity
For Budding Statesmen
Are you interested in a career in diplomacy? Two intern programs sponsored by the Department of State offer opportunities for entrance into the field. One will be in the form of a year’s special assignment in the Department of State supplemented by training at the Foreign Service Institute, while the other is in the form of an eight-week student position in the UN Secretariat.
The first job carries a starting salary of $2520, with an opportunity to work up to $3240 during the intern period. Subsistence supplied to the student UN worker is $300 for the eight-week term. Applications should be made as soon as possible to Mr. Kane, in the Alumni Office.
World Federation Study
A Student Federalist Institute, for collegians interested in the formation of a world government, will be held at Carleton College from June 13 to 17. Expenses, including registration fee, room, and meals, total $22.00. Interested students should send a $5.00 deposit to Mr. Edgar H. Brenner, Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota.
Cat System Planned For Summer Students
A pay-as-you-go system of cafeteria service is being planned for those attending school during the coming summer session, according to the Student Welfare office.
There will be no board students this summer. Instead, the cafeteria will be closed and a larger cafeteria service set up in one of the dining halls. Faculty, students and guests will be served there under the same system that now prevails in the cafeteria.
The religious attending the session will be served in the other dining hall. No plans are being made to continue the cafeteria system next fall for all students, as has been rumored.
History Teachers Slate Summer Conference Here
History instructors from all over the midwest will gather at Notre Dame July 15 for a three-day session to discuss teaching problems encountered in secondary schools. The nucleus of the group will consist of some one hundred members of the History Teachers Club, headed by the Rev. Joseph Swastek, of St. Mary’s College, Orchard Lake, Mich., but all persons interested in history teaching methods are invited to attend.
During the conference a series of lectures and panel discussions will be held on such topics as “Text Books and Methods”, and “Substitution of the Social Studies for History in High Schools.” Full information about the session can be obtained by writing Miss Cercedes Muenz, Box 121, Notre Dame, Ind.
Noted Pianist-Teacher To Give Recital Monday
Karl Mathes, distinguished pianist and composer, will appear in formal recital at Washington Hall, next Monday at 8 p.m. Mr. Mathes has enjoyed an equally successful career as a concert artist and as a pedagogue.
He completed the prescribed courses in theory, piano, and organ at the Royal Academy in Budapest, the same school of music that has given the music world
KARL MATHES
Queen Marie and a Brahms Sonata
such eminent names as Ormandy, Sigeti and Dohnanyi. His appointment as court pianist and instructor by Queen Marie of Roumania culminated an enviable series of artistic and academic achievements.
From the time he took up residence in the United States, Mr. Mathes has continued to concertize and teach composition. He has been a member of the University music faculty for the past two terms.
The principal work to be performed at Monday night’s recital will be Brahms Sonata in F minor, opus 5. Other works on the program will be an Adagio and Giguo by Mozart, Scarlatti’s Capriocie number 2, Liszt’s Harmonies du Soir and Hungarian Rhapsody number 12, and a Toccata and Fugue by Mathes, one of the performer’s own major works for the piano.
MAGAZINE EXHIBIT
An exhibit of French language periodical* will be on display from now until the end of the semester on the main floor of the Library. Each magazine is identified.
May 20, 1949
17

5
¥
Sociolow qoei. ‘Crime-Busting
1
Practice Matches Theory, as Correctional Ad Students Throw Away the Textbooks

PRISON 1837
AW



By JIM KINGSLEY
1
«
&
If you are addicted to Post serials, you’re reading a current one about Martin Burke, a college professor of sociopsychology. Martin, it seems, lectured profoundly on criminals but had never seen one face to face — never, at least, until on a student’s dare he ventured into the underworld. At this writing, Martin is about to be dumped into the Gulf Stream from a plane by two smugglers.
It’s an old theme: college courses are strictly theoretical. Profs are introverted fogeys with their heads in the clouds. That is why, two years ago, Notre Dame’s Department of Sociology decided to strike a blow for the practical side of education.
g
8
The Real Stuff
With the help of many authorities in the field of correctional service, they selected and grouped a number of old courses — criminology, juvenile delinquency, and others — gave them a new slant, and called the whole program “Correctional Administration.” It was to be different from the ordinary social work programs of other schools. ,It was to be brass-tacks stuff — get out and see the seamy side of life.
Next, and most important, was find-
Good Results in South Bend
“Our juvenile work in particular has had exceptional results in South Bend,
BILL VANGEN TRIES CELL FOR SIZE Perpetual campus
ing the right man to head the program. Here the department was especially shrewd. Following through on the “practical” idea, they secured a man whose dealings with murderers, safe-crackers, perverts, and J.D.’s had been daily fare for the 17 years since his post-grad days at Notre Dame. He is Professor Hugh P. O’Brien, a young-looking family man of 40, a K.C. member, and at present chairman of the St. Joseph County Committee on Delinquency.
Veteran Gang-Buster
Lean and soft-spoken, he doesn’t look at all like a hard-boiled parole officer or a tough prison official. But he is both, or was. For five years he was Director of Education at Clinton Prison, the “Siberia” of the New York State Penal system, the place of maximum security for incorrigibles. Then, for ten more years, he served with the New York State Division of Parole, and finally as administrative assistant to the chairman of the parole board.
All this time he was dealing with characters like Lucky Luciano, vice-racket head, and Manny Strewl, of the O’Connell kidnappers. By keeping his parolees under constant surveillance, he was able to track down several killers at large and to crack one of New York’s most terrifying burglary waves.
Here, patently, was just the man the department wanted. They soon found, too, that his ideas on education tallied with their own. “Many prison wardens,” O’Brien asserts, “have told me that the college men who work for them are top-heavy with theory. They come to work and have to spend six or eight months getting used to the inmates and to the operation of the institution. Our program is intended to correct that deficiency by balancing the theoretical with the practical.”
Emotional Stability Needed
Graduates can enter the Correctional Administration Program with a minimum of eight hours of sociology and, as the pamphlet specifies, “good character and emotional stability.
They are faced by a two-semester curriculum in which they go to school in the Fall, and from November to May put in at least 100 hours of field work in South Bend. Most students so far have tripled that amount. In their study of correctional institutions, they make frequent inspections of the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, to study first-hand the handling and discipline of the inmates.	’
After* all this, the student’s degree (M.A. or M.S. in Ed.) is withheld until he has served six months’ internship on a state parole board.
Student case workers in South Bend deal with offenders ranging from grade school “tough boys” all the way up the ladder of criminality to the most hardened gunmen. They begin in the Bureau of Pupil Personnel, where principals of grammar and high schools report their truant and behavior problems. This is individual case work on the pre-delin-quent level, usually a matter of quietly straightening out the wayward youngsters.
The next step is the Juvenile Court of St. Joseph County, where students not only investigate instances of juvenile delinquency, but also take a hand in general supervision of the system. The case work here is not as dramatic as it is arduous. Rehabilitating estranged children, alcoholic children, or children whose parents drive them to delinquency is a job that demands the student’s utmost patience.
Susie, for example, may have attempted suicide on several occasions. The reason is not hard to find — hex- mother is psychotic, her father alcoholic. Susie has to depend on herself. The case worker’s task here is to make contacts until he can find the right home for the child, get her in school, persuade the mother to see a doctor, and help the father to attempt a cure and to find a respectable job.
reports Professor O’Brien. “This year the boys took a survey of the incidence of juvenile delinquency in the city, and a report on the types of offenders. This resulted in a complete overhaul of the juvenile courts, an increase in employees, and a raise in salaries.”
Finally, the men are given a chance to work with adult offenders by the Federal Probation and Parole Service. Here are the pickpockets, burglars, assaulters, and “con” men. Here are the complete social misfits, with whom the prospective M.A.’s put to work the theories of criminology and guidance learned in class.
Solve Car Thefts
Recently one student handled a case with the skill of an experienced detective: Harry, a parolee, was reported by his employer to have been away from work for there days. His landlady, upon questioning, told our man that Harry had been leaving the house at 9:00 every evening, in a car with another man.
License plates were checked; the owner of the car was an ex-convict. Our investigator could have tabbed Harry then for violation of parole, but he chose to wait a little longer to see what Harry was doing nights.
The continued surveillance paid off. Police, following our case worker’s lead, were soon able to catch both men stealing an automobile. Under rigorous questioning, they admitted several other car thefts which had worried South Bend for weeks. By this time, of course, the correctional administration student was at work on another case.
O’Brien stresses, however, that his program is more than a course in how to prevent suicides and catch car thieves. Field work, however commendable, is blind unless guided by a basic philosophy, and Mr. O’Brien’s theories, culled from experience, become guiding principles
ATTENTION. OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS!
The Villagers Club will hold an important meeting on Tuesday, May 24, at 7 p.m. in the Law Building.
Elections will be held for all officers for next year. All off-campus students—whether residents of South Bend or not — are urged to attend, and they will be eligible for the post of off-campus representative in the Student Council Reorganization of the club will be discussed as well as the adoption of a new constitution and summer activities. ‘
that they as far as limitations In parole
when he applies them to teaching correctional administration.
“Social work today,” he complains, “is
chock-full of women. Not aren’t doing excellent work they are capable, but many cut down their usefulness.

CONFERENCE WITH WARDEN — Warden Dowd of Indiana State Prison was host to Prof. O'Brien's Criminology class
work, for instance, the trend is toward the person who is not only a social case worker but a law enforcement officer as well. Otherwise parolees can get away with murder. And law enforcement is obviously a man’s job.”
In defending the Catholic position on moral questions, Mr. O’Brien won’t budge. He teaches from this viewpoint:
“We maintain that man is a free moral agent. There is a deterministic philosophy pervading social work that, if carried to its logical conclusion, would do
Professor O'Brien demonstrates master cell-block to Ernie Timpani and Bill Vangen
away with jails. This is the view that criminals are the product of a corrupt society, and, being thus determined, can’t be held responsible for their actions.
“This school would like to improve society — an admirable desire — but in doing so they would pardon the individual offender, under the theory that he has no free will. We, of course, are diametrically opposed to this position, despite the fact that many textbooks lean toward determinism.”
This then is the proving ground for an experiment in practical education; and the two-year-old baby, according to one of the students, “will have a great future.” Other universities have already-followed the lead, N. Y. U. having introduced an identical program this year. It is a “first” for Notre Dame, the sociology department, and Professor O’Brien.
r Two things every College man should know!
for a few days. Spends four years wool-gathering—winds up with sheepskin. Graduated to “Manhattan”
Open-iveave fabric just invites a breeze.
Long and short sleeves. In white and solid colors. Size-Fixt (fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less). It’s the coolest thing over an undergraduate.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
Italian Club Takes Kegler League Crown
The Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame concluded their 1948-49 bowling season last Sunday as the Italian Club won the league title and Ray Zasada and Tony Carmola walked off with the honors in the doubles tournament.
With Jack Rini spilling the pins for a 638 three-game series (214, 220 and 204), the Italians had little trouble dusting the Buffalo Club; their victory margin over the easterners was 235 pins. In Sunday’s action the teams from the two divisions met to determine the final standings for the whole league. The top ten were (in order) Italian, Buffalo, Metallurgy, Chemist, Off-Campus, Rochester, Pittsburgh, Kansas City, Philadelphia and Central New York. Metallurgy and the Generation Club were the only Gold League teams to win over the Blue. Bill Gorman of the Pittsburgh group set a season high for a single game by rolling a 245.
Zasada and Carmola lost most of their early lead in the doubles tourney and almost lost the whole thing. Bill Gorman and Ernie Huffman came through with 1114 Sunday to finish up with 3113. Zasada and Carnola had 3116.
Tuesday’s banquet was a huge success. Over 175 Keglers attended the fried chicken dinner at the Hotel Mayfair in Mishawaka. Hughie Burns was the toastmaster and all bowling awards were presented.
SPORTS FINALE
May 20—GOLF, Indiana Intercollegiate at Purdue 21—TRACK at Penn State
RASERALL, Pensacola here TENNIS, Marquette here 23—GOLF at Minnesota
TENNIS at Wisconsin SAILING, M.C.C. finals at Michigan
24—BASEBALL at Purdue
25—BASEBALL at Northwestern 26—GOLF, Detroit here
28—TRACK, Indiana state meet here
BASEBALL—Michigan State here
June 1—TENNIS, C.C.C. at Detroit 3-4—BASEBALL, W. Mich, here 4—TRACK, C.C.C. at Marquette 17—TRACK, NCAA at L. Angeles 20—TENNIS, NCAA at Southern Methodist
21—SAILING, National Intercol-legiates at Michigan
24—TRACK, AAU at Fresno, Cal. 27—GOLF, NCAA at Ames, la.
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Varsity Stops Leahy Tears With 49-21 Win
IT'S NOT THAT BAD. COACH — Ernie Zalejski, Bill Barrett, Fred Miller and Coach Leahy register anxiety when the Old Timers seized an early 14-0 lead
Penn State and Indiana Tourney Final Tests As Irish Tracksters Near Season's End
By JIM HOWARD
The potent Penn State trackmen, the Indiana state meet and the challenging Central Collegiate championship comprise the obstacles facing the Notre Dame cinder squad before their season is completed on June 4.
Seeking to make this the greatest season in Irish track history, the local thin-clads will first encounter the roaring Nittany Lions tomorrow in State College, Pa., in their last dual battle of the year. With their close win over Missouri, the Notre Dame speedsters added to their prestige, and are now rated an even chance with the outstanding eastern team.
A track spectacle of brilliant proportions will be staged on Cartier Field on May 28, when the Indiana state championships are held. Facing the Irish for the Big State crown are Purdue and Indiana. The Boilermakers are one of the best balanced squads in the Big Nine and have already edged Notre Dame
once this year. They scored a two-point triumph in the Illinois Tech Relays. In addition to the Big Three, approximately 12 to 14 smaller colleges will fight for the Little State title.
Last Show June 4
On June 4 the team will make its final appearance as a full squad, when it clashes with the best teams in the Middle West at the Central Collegiate affair in Milwaukee. Some key members of the team will remain to train for the NCAA event on June 17 and 18.
Coach “Doc” Handy will lose several top men through graduation this year. Team strength will be sapped most strongly in the distances and middle distance events. Two of the most colorful distance runners in Notre Dame track history, Captain Bill Leonard and Jim Murphy, will conclude their four-year stints. Leonard has been one of the
(Continued on Page 26)
Old Timers Falter After Leading, 14-0
By RALPH WRIGHT
Hampered by a leaky pass defense,. Notre Dame’s 1949 varsity football team played in low the whole first quarter against the Old Timers last Saturday-But, once they got in high, the Irish, racked up a 49-21 victory over a squad of ex-varsity men and substitutes from the current team.
Twenty-two thousand persons saw spring practice come to a close in a full-dress show. There was a record crowd for the annual game, a marching band and some Old Timer showmanship headed by Ziggy Czarobski. There were also a few surprises; the biggest came when the oldsters moved into a 14-0 lead in the first quarter.
The game was only five minutes old when John Panelli ploughed into the end zone to end a 79-yard Old Timer march. Frank Tripucka’s passes to Lank Smith and Panelli, and some handy penalties, set up the score. Tripucka kicked the extra point.
Sitko Rolls
A little aroused, Coach Frank Leahy sent in his top offensive unit and Emil Sitko started the ball rolling with a 39-yard dash. However, the ball was rolling too much a few minutes later as the Old Timers recovered a fumble on their own 20. Tripucka promptly heaved one to Leo McKillip for 28, one to tackle Czarobski (an end on this play) for IS and another to Zeke O’Connor for the last 37 yards. Czarobski wiggled his-toes before booting the 14th point.
People were beginning to believe Coach Leahy’s forebodings until Larry Coutre came in at the start of the second quarter. Scooter took the ball twice, once for a fast 47 yards, another time for a zig-zagging 22 yards. Jack Landry made it from the one and automatic Steve Oracko contributed the first of seven perfect placements.
A second varsity touchdown featured the freshman breakaway ace, little Bill Barrett. He ran for 16 yards and caught two of Bob Williams’ passes before scoring from the three-yard line.
Shortly thereafter, Dave Flood inter
May 20, 1949
21
cepted an inaccurate Old Timex* pass. Varsity quarterback John Mazur threw to Bill Flynn, and Ernie Zalejski scored from the three. A. minute latex, Mazui hit Frank Spaniel with a 19-yard TD pass to boost the halftime margin to 28-14.
In the second half, the Old Timers practically turned the game over to the varsity subs who were loaned to them Tor the afternoon. Bill Gay sparked the first varsity move. He bounded through for 16 yards, then romped for 42 more and a touchdown, breaking away on a nice cutback.
After an exchange of pass interceptions, Barrett finally got his chance to get going with a punt. He made the best of it by streaking 57 yards down the sideline before Tom Saggau dropped him five yards short of the goal. Gay immediately slipped through the rest of the way.
Freshman Tom O’Connell directed the last varsity touchdown surge. Spaniel ran the final 11 yards in two plays.
The Old Timers at least had the consolation of scoring first and last. Joe Caprara smacked center for the tally and Gerry Begley became the third Old Timer to convert.
There could be little complaint over the varsity attack. The backs ran brilliantly, with Coutre, Barrett and Gay the most spectacular. Williams completed four of six passes. Bob Toneff ■and Jim Martin were impressive at the tackles, but Ralph McGehee showed no signs of wishing to relinquish his old position.
Weak Aerial Defense for Varsity
The lone weakness was the pass defense. Lank Smith roamed around the secondary freely the whole first quarter. At no time did the Old Timers have dif
ficulty shaking receivers loose, even though the varsity line was charging fast.
Hot weather, patches of dirt on the usually-perfect grid and 37,000 empty seats shouldn’t be a feature of next fall’s football. However, most of Saturday’s spectators expect a Notre Dame victory to be a frequent thing. The Irish didn’t look like a team that would be one of the school’s poorest or one that would lose seven games. The end of spring practice brings bad news for the ten opponents of next fall. Notre Dame should be a typical Notre Dame team, a contender for the national championship.
Tennis Team Closes With Badger Netmen
Playing three matches last week the Irish netmen fell victims to Michigan May 11, and Michigan State May 14, by the identical 7-2 score and then rebounded against Western Reserve on May 16 to win by the same 7-2 count.
Tomorrow the netters will trade smashes here with the squad from Marquette and then will journey to Madison to close the ’49 season against Wisconsin. The Irish will go against Marquette with an even chance of keeping the season record on the black side of the ledger; but a preview glance at Wisconsin shows less hope for victory, according to Coach Langford. The Badgers are well loaded with veterans and at the moment are touting an impressive season record.
The 7-2 loss to Michigan wasn’t surprising since the Wolverines were expected to win handily. But the Irish had
their moments of glory. Bob David made short work of Andy Paton, Michigan’s No. 1 player, and a definite threat for the Big 9 singles championship, as he set him down in two straight sets, 6-1, 7-5. David then teamed with Gene Biitt-ner to hand the Wolverines their* first doubles loss of the season, 6-4, 1-6, 6-4.
Against Michigan State David again came through with a two-set victory, being extended 9-7, to win the first, and snatching the second, 6-4. The David-Biittner doubles combine didn’t fare so well against the Spartans as they dropped a thrilling three-set match to Malaga and Fleischmann, 2-6, 6-4, 6-3. Bart O’Brien and sophomore Pat Tonti picked up the only other Irish win as they captured the No. 3 doubles, 8-6, 6-2.
Hopping to Cleveland the netters picked up an easy triumph by toppling Western Reserve, 7-2. Herb Hoene’s loss ■was the only match dropped by the Irish. The racquetters forfeited the No. 3 doubles to catch an early train.
—Rudy Unger
Hering Awards Told; Freshmen Cop Four
The annual Hering Awards were announced last week by Coach Frank Leahy. The medals are named in honor of the late Frank E. Hering, the third Notre Dame football coach who was at the helm from 1896 to 1899.
The awards were as follows: best blocking end, Bill Flynn; best blocking tackle, Jim Martin; best blocking guard, Rod Johnson; best blocking center, Jerry Groom; best quarterback, Bob Williams; most improved back, Jack Bush; most aggressive running back, Bill Barrett; most aggressive lineman, Paul Burns; best tackling back, John Petitbon.
SITKO SHAKES TACKlERS— Varsity power
22
CZAROBSKI RAMBLES — Old Timer surprise
The Scholastic
Airmen Meet ND On Car+ier Saturday
By RAY FITZGERALD
The end of the baseball road looms just ahead for* the 1949 edition of the Fighting Irish, but there are some mighty important ball games coming up. The season, which started out so dismally down in Bloomington, has blossomed into something to write home about. Since their three season-opening losses, the Klinemen have won 13 and lost only three.
Tomorrow the Pensacola Naval Ah’ Station ball club comes to Cartier field. Nothing is known of the ball-playing ability of the air station, but it should be worth while.
On May 24, Notre Dame plays a double-bill with a hard-hitting Purdue club that has a season record of 13 and 2. The game with the Boilermakers that was rained out on April 26 is one-half of this doubleheader, to be played in Lafayette. Purdue has a toehold on first place in the Big Nine, holding a two-game lead over Illinois and Indiana. Mel Henson and South Bend’s Bob Hartman have shared most of the pitching burden, while Stan Aders, Bill Berberian, John Chinewicz, and Kenny Gorgal have been the men with the big stick. Gorgal, also a football quarterback, clouted two homers against Michigan State last week to help Hartman to a victory.
The Irish end their away schedule against the oft-beaten Northwestern Wildcats, and hope to make a clean sweep of this year’s series. Either Bob Nemes or Tony Tip ton will chuck this one against Northwestern’s Jack Ogle.
Michigan State comes to town May 28 owning one of the two triumphs over Purdue, and a 7-5 victory over the Irish. Ed Sobczak, a .375 hitting outfielder, is the man Notre Dame must stop if they hope to beat the Spartans. He has plagued Big Nine chuckers all year, and irritated John “Soup” Campbell with a game-winning home run the last time State played Notre Dame. This is one the Klinemen especially want to win.
Old grads get a look at Kozlik, Petr-zelka, et al on June 4 when the Irish nine takes on Western Michigan. This game will be the last of college baseball for nine seniors — Co-Captains Ray Petrzelka and Benny Kozlik, Gene Lavery, Pete Koblosh, Emil Garafalo, Bob Machado, Walt Mahannah, Dick Smul-len and Jim Pressley. They’d like to bow out with a win, so look for some good baseball when the Broncos and the Irish tangle on the 4th.
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Please, No Tears, Frank
That was the poorest Notre Dame team in years which trounced the Old Timers, 49-21, Saturday? Hm! Admittedly the old men didn’t boast the talent they had in former years, but they still had some fight and can be considered a fair test.
The glaring weakness in the ’49 varsity is the pass defense — or the lack of one. The Tripucka-Lank Smith passing combination shot holes in the varsity defense any time it pleased. It was so good it made one wish we had seen it in action prior to Saturday. Leahy can use a couple of defense-wise backs of the Ashbaugh type.
Notre Dame’s pass defense may well have to be the front line. A pair of charging tackles the size of Jim Martin and Bob Toneff could discourage any back from waiting too long before tossing. Anything which will hamper the opponents’ accuracy will be appreciated.
Too bad Leahy can’t trade a couple halfbacks for at least one more reserve quarterback. Williams stands alone as the only capable experienced field general available for duty this fall. Frosh John Mazur and Tom O’Connell will have to “mature” in a hurry to give Bob an occasional rest next fall. The days of the strictly offensive quarterback may be gone for awhile. Leahy’s confidence in Williams is evidenced by the amount of defensive time Bob clocked Saturday.
We will not listen to any Leahy laments about a weak line. He has one that will give everyone a fight next fall. But we don’t think it is going to be wise to spot North Carolina, Southern California and Southern Methodist the 14 points that the varsity gave the Old Timers. Sometimes the game is too short for such charity. Don’t forget Southern California last fall, lads.
I Need a Vacation
Have you seen that thatch-topped, be-goggled lad furiously beating all the brush from Farley to the chow hall That’s our editor; he’s looking for the guy who put Bill Fischer’s name under Marty Wendell’s picture last week. I hope he doesn’t find me. Last week’s
two glaring errors convinced me that it is time for a long rest.
So, boss, find yourself a new boy. I quit! I’m going to California for a long rest.
Before leaving I want to thank all those who have helped make my job easier this year and especially you, my readers, for* putting up with the weekly literature of my staff and me.
Childe Harolde pecks out last column
I must make a profound bow to my friends in the athletic office for the gracious way they tolerated my almost daily snooping: Charlie Callahan and his minions, Maura Mills, Jim Butz and Jack Kennedy and to those staunch keepers of the outer chamber, Frank Sullivan and Tom Brennan.
It has been a hectic year, but we always got consolation from every critical response to anything we have done or said — at least we know someone read the stuff and was interested enough to express an opinion. But if you are down San Diego way this summer and find a recumbent figure on the beach swathed in a bright yellow Notre Dame T-shirt, just tiptoe quietly by. We won’t get any more arguments started and we’ll all have a fine summer .. .
Yours,
H. “Splinters” Monahan
May 20, 1949
23
Two of the colorful football trophies yearly presented to ND by Louisville Rooter Allen Foster
We’re Always Champions in Louisville
Coach Frank Leahy has a more immediate problem than the specter of those games his grid team is going to lose next fall. He has to find some place to put an award that just arrived for his 1948 squad. The Fighting Irish need not worry about the whimsy of the Associated Press sportswriters as long as subway alumnus Allen Foster of Louisville still prepares his annual award.
For the last six years Mr. Foster has presented the awards as a tribute to the Notre Dame eleven.
Add Color to Athletic Offices
The trophies, which add a splash of brilliant gold, blue and green to the Breen-Phillips athletic office, have a background which extends back to the period when Rockne, Notre Dame and championship football were synonymous. It is a story typical of the volunteers who follow the gridiron fortunes of the green banner of the Irish. Mr. Foster is a commercial artist, which explains the skill with which these awards have been made. But his own words more accurately explain the motive and spirit behind such a project.
“The one thing I admire about Notre Dame so much is its fighting spirit. The old adage ‘It isn’t a question of win or lose, it’s how you play the game,’ applies to Notre Dame more than to any team in the country,” Foster explains.
Although he did not attend college, early in the “Rockne Era” Foster attached himself to the subway division of the Notre Dame alumni. In 1935 he started keeping scrapbooks on the Irish grid teams. In these records he combined
24	■
By HARRY MONAHAN
newspaper clippings, programs and his own art work to register the seasonal records.
At the conclusion of the 1942 season Foster decided to give the Irish eleven a token of his appreciation for the entertainment they had given him in some 22 seasons of play. He has presented seven of these awards to the team and each has been of unique and clever design. Each is attractively framed and glass-covered. In the initial award a montage of the figures of football players dressed in the colors of Notre Dame opponents recorded the seven wins, two losses and two ties of Frank Leahy’s second year as Irish coach.
1943 produced Coach Leahy’s first national championship Irish eleven and the opponents’ mascots provided the theme that year. The familiar Golden Dome acquired an unfamiliar festoon of pennants and banners for the 1944 trophy. On the 1945 award the specter of Irish football hovered over' a map of Indiana like a grim sunset foretelling the shadow into which future Irish elevens were to cast their neighbors.
Intersectional Emphasis
The intersectional aspect of Notre Dame football received the Foster treatment the following year. That award depicted a large map of the United States with small stadiums sketched in at the location of Irish tilts. Last year’s plaque was a star-studded affair with Notre Dame’s All-American trio, Lujack, Connor and Fischer, and Coach Leahy occupying the largest of the meteors.
“Dedicated to the fightin’est Irishman of Lie Fighting Irish— Frank Leahy” is Foster’s label on the 1948 award. Newspaper headlines fill the air above the Notre Dame stadium and record Coach Leahy’s six seasons as Irish head coach.
Blue Ribbons for the Champs
Of course the favorite copies are the 1943, 1946 and 1947 ones with the blue ribbon emblematic of the national championship emblazoned across the face of the trophy. These three occupy positions of honor- in Coach Leahy’s outeroffice, while the others brighten up the assistant coaches’ office nearby.
His business prevents him from seeing more than one game a year, but as he says, “I’ll lay up my golf clubs on Saturday to hear them on the air.” Foster finally met the Notre Dame athletic group at the 1947 Army game. Every time the Irish eagers visited Louisville to tangle with the Kentucky Wildcats, Foster was in the stands cheering the Notre Dame quintet.
In tribute to the present Irish mentor, Foster commented, “To my way of thinking, Frank Leahy is the nearest duplicate of Knute Rockne that any man could ever be.”
The Irish missed the AR laurel wreath last fall and the new O’Donnell Memorial national championship trophy went north to Ann Arbor. But the Notre Dame 1948 eleven did not go unrewarded thanks to Louisville’s Allen Foster — and the 1949 team already has won its first award for next fall’s campaign.
The Scholastic
Irish Golfers Enter State Intercollegiate
By BILL DELANEY
Today six of the University’s top golfers will compete in the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Tournament at Lafayette, Ind. Led by George Stuhr, the captain, and Tom Veech, a sophomore and one of the most consistent men on the team, the six boys will try to retain the championship which they won last year here at Notre Dame. The other four will be Jack Quinn, Paul Hudak, Ray Burian and Art Arquilla.
After today’s tournament there will only be two more dual matches for Notre Dame. Next Monday at Minnesota and then next Thursday University of Detroit will be guests here. Possibly the team will compete in the National Intercollegiate Tournament at Iowa State at the end of June.
> PfeDNERf V
A NOW WE'RE I ( '
( IN TROUBLE- (
f WE WENT
[ Anzwoki?/ACrrx

c
1}
A
I MOW WE
gotta jump
TH' NET/
A SEMI-FINAL MATCH IN THE BEVERLY HILLS TOURNEY WENT TO 102 GAMES.....AND LASTED4 HOURS AND45 MINUTES -.THEY HAD TO FINISH UNDER
THE LIGHTS /
Last Monday the Michigan State golf
TOM VEECH
SWEET MUSC-
■ SULL IN TUHEAFTEe
AU. THAT , TOUGH J
\ PLAY/ )
Rawhide reinforcements at the shoulders of SPALDING and WRIGHT & DITSON Rackets keep strings tighter longer . . . and “FIBRE WELDING” and “FIBRE SEALING” give extra strength.
^p^Q.sets the pace in sports
team invaded the local course and found a tough opponent awaiting them. Gaining eight out of nine points in the morn-ning, Notre Dame took a lead they never relinquished, eventually winning 22 to 5.
Last Saturday the Notre Dame boys hung up their fourth win in six starts by easily defeating an outclassed St. Ambrose College team. Normally a six-man team plays in a match, but 10 boys travelled from Davenport, Iowa, intending to play for their team so Father Holderith played with ten men also. Tom Veech, who has three more seasons before him tied a course record for collegiate competition by shooting a five under par 66 in the morning. Tom is potentially the best golfer at Notre Dame.
Sunny Italy
4 Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
SOI NORTH NILES
May 20, 1949
25
Track
(Continued from Page 21)
most brilliant milers Notre Dame ever had, and is holder of the all-time Irish mark of 4:15.7 for the distance. Murphy, the tiny red-head, paced the cross country team to its highest • peak and consistently turned in two-mile victories.
Other crack runners going the way of graduation are Ray Sobota, outstanding middle distance runner, Pat Kenny, top flight half and quarter-miler, and Lou Tracy, one of the strongest milers and two-milers in collegiate competition. Steve Provost, a steady quarter-miler and this season a brilliant sprinter, and Bob McDavid, a consistent member of the Irish hurdling society, will also depart.
Fleming Races Dillard-Beater
In the Penn State contest tomorrow, Fleming will meet the greatest challenge of his college career. His opponent is Jim Gehrdes, who was the only man this year to defeat Harrison Dillard, world record holder in hurdles. Gehrdes also
WANTED
Men For Sales Work Contacting Physicians, Hospitals, Etc.
Long established, nationally known ethical pharmaceutical manufacturer has limited number of openings for men interested in contacting physicians to promote and interpret most recent developments of medical and pharmaceutical research.
Permanency, security and excellent opportunities for advancement for successful men in this organization. Salary and Expense.
Minimum of four years college work with major in biological sciences such as zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, bacteriology, organic chemistry, etc. Age 23-30.
Replies held strictly confidential. Give full information regarding background.
Send all replies to:
Pharmaceutical, c/o Publications Office, 118 Main Bidding, Notre Dame, Indiana.
has a top time of :22.9 in the 220-yard low hurdles this year.
Other top Nittany Lion runners are Horace Ashenfelter, who has a 4:17 mile time and who runs the two-mile consistently under 9:25. His brother Bill also teams with him this year, in his distance running. Wilbert Lancaster is a Penn State dashman who has toured the century in :09.8. The only other really outstanding Nittany Lion is Chuck Drazen-ovich, a shot putter.
Penn State track coach Chick Werner has managed his team through a very successful outdoor season. The Lion came out on top in the triangular contest with Navy and the University of Pennsylvania by scoring 87% points to the Middies’ 42% and 32 for Penn. Against Colgate, Penn State rolled up 86 1/3 points to 39 2/3. The magic spell was broken last week when Michigan State set down the Lions, as they have many others during the season.
With victories in the coming contests, or even with a win over Penn State, the Irish would possess one of the most brilliant records in their history, and also have one of the top marks of the nation for the current season.
Sullivan Cards Ace On Local 15th Hole
John J. Sullivan attained the goal of Notre Dame’s many student golfers last Sunday when he carded a hole-in-one on the University course. Sullivan, a senior journalism student from 231 Sorin Hall and Lynn, Mass., got his ace on the back nine, the 173-yard fifteenth hole. He used a number seven iron.
THE IRISH NAVY — Left to right: kneeling, Joe Caldwell, Fred Joyce and Loren Bullock; standing, Dick Brotherson, Jim Crowe and Charlie Burke.
Sailors Seek Crown In Tough MCC Meet
For the second time in its two years of competition, the Notre Dame sailing team qualified for the Midwest Collegiate championships. On May 21, nine squads, the survivors from the three regional eliminations, will journey to Lake Wittmore, Mich., for the two-day regatta. Pre-race dope favors Purdue, Northwestern, Michigan and Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame sailors could even the count against the two teams that defeated them this season, if the Irish can place above Michigan and Northwestern in this regatta.
The skippers will be fighting an uphill battle against such stiff competition as Purdue, who handed Michigan its first loss of the season last Saturday. The six men designated to make the trip are Jim Crowe (acting captain), Charlie Burke, Dick Brotherson, Jim Martin, Charles Reynolds and Joe Shrank.
The three top teams from the M.C.C. finals will meet four eastern squads and three Pacific coast clubs in the national finals to be held at Michigan, June 21-23. This will mark the first time that the finals have been held west of the Appalachians.
In 1948, the Irish received an invitation to the finals at Annapolis, but lack of resources and experience forced them to decline the bid. In that regatta, Michigan, the midwest champion, finished seventh, while five eastern schools led by Brown, the eventual national champion, walked away with every heat.
26
The Scholastic
Strong Finish Whips Missouri Track Team
Trailing by six points going into the last event of the Missouri track meet, the Irish trackmen took a cue from the comic books and swept the javelin contest to win, 67-64.
Big Jack Murphy, Bob Charters and Jim Miller supplied the fireworks in the spear throw, but it was the points piled
IOE HELWIG
Platter spinner
up by Bill Fleming and Johnny Helwig that added most to the Irish pile. Hurdler Bill took the high and low sticks contests and added a tie in the high jump for a cozy 14 points.
Not content with his old school shot put marks, John Hewig sent the metal ball flying 53’6” to top both his week-old outdoor record of 52’1” and his indoor* standard of 53’3%”. Helwig strolled over to the discus circle and hurled the platter 144’9” to take another first.
Sprinter Bob Smith tried out his injured leg and found he was still able to take a 21.5 220.
Captain Billy Leonard, who has been having a little trouble getting started on the outdoor cinders this year, shut up the wolves -with a sparkling 1.56.3 half mile victory.
Jim Miller, who contributed to the Merriwell finish in the javelin throw, took the pole vault with a 13-foot clearance. Poliet John Worthington leaped 22’11” to take the broad jump.
Most disappointed of the day’s contestants probably were Bay Sobota and Frank Boiler. The pair ran the fastest of their* lives in the 440, 49.2 and 49.8 respectively, only to watch Missouri put two men through the tape in 48.4 and 48.6.	■
“LOOK FOR THE BLUE TIN WITH THE RED RIDER”
Prettv girl; mellow pipe; the mild, sni-o-o-th taste of Kentucky Club—man, that’s living! Enjoy this friendly blend of real White Burley^-‘'Treat Yourself to the Best!
Listen to. "THE FISHING and HUNTING CLUB" - Mutual Network, every week

College Men Prefer Ronson Lighters
Complete selection of Ronson table and pocket lighters . . . many styles.
6.00 up
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
May 20, 1949
27
Basebailers Play for Title Today
The opening game of the interhall baseball world series, a double elimination playoff between the two top teams in each division, was played on May 12. That afternoon Alumni Hall took an early lead over Cavanaugh, and then hung on to win 7-5. Friday, the 13th, spelled disaster for Sorin Hall as the Howard team came up with 13 runs in the fifth inning to overcome a 6-0 deficit and won going away, 13-7. The remaining four elimination games were played this weekend, and the championship game is scheduled for today.
Dillon, Vetville Romp in Hall Softball
Dillon and Vetville have left the remaining interhall softball teams behind. Dillon won early interhall victories over Sorin Blue, 17-4, Walsh, 23-5, Badin,
6-3, Morrissey Gold, 14-7, and Alumni, 11-3.
The play of the rest of the league was marred by five forfeited games.
W L	w L
Dillon __________  8	0	Morrissey	Gold_____1	4
Vetville _________ 8	0	Walsh_____________  1	5
Alumni ___________ 5	2	Badin ___________   1	5
Morrissey Blue ___ 3	4	Sorin Blue ________ 0	6
Rochester Still Tops Club 'A' Softball Loop
Rochester was able to retain its position atop the club softball “A” league by smothering Buffalo, 36-10 and Erie, 23-15. The Toledo Club appeared to be heading for the top on the strength of victories over Erie, 25-4, and the Syrian-Lebanese Club, 12-6, but they were stopped short when Detroit nipped them, 9-8. In the only other game played the Syrian-Lebanese team whipped Buffalo, 14-4.
W L	W L
Rochester _________ 5	1	Toledo ___________ 3	3
Detroit ___________ 3	1	Buffalo .......... 1	4
Syrian-Lebanese ___ 3	1	Erie ______________ 1	5-
EC's Pace 'B' Division Play
The Knights of Columbus will probably win the club softball “B” division simply because no other team in the division is capable of putting on a sustained drive. The New Jersey Club snapped the K. of C. winning streak at four* games with an 11-6 triumph, but they in turn were beaten by Western Michigan, 8-6 and Kentucky, 7-6. The Minnesota team topped the Metallurgy Club, 12-3, and the Western Michigan outfit, 10-9, then were upset by the Chemical Engineers, 10-9. The Engineers were derailed when the Metallurgy Club came up with its first win by a score of 7-5.
w L	w L
K. of C____________ 4	1	Kentucky _________ 1	I
Minnesota _________ 3	2	Chem. Engr. ______ 1	2
West. Michigan ____ 3	2	Metallurgy _______ 1	5
New Jersey 3	3
Irish 3-2 Victory Holts Broncos’ Winning Streak
The fast-riding Broncos of Western Michigan had their five-game winning streak brought to a sudden halt as Notre Dame bunched seven hits for three runs and a 3-2 triumph. It was only the second loss for the Broncos this year in 13 outings. After scoring two runs in the top of the first on a single by Gene Lavery, Ray Petrzelka’s three-base knock and a long fly by Tom Martin, the Irish stayed in front right down to the wire. Walt Mahannah gave up only five hits and blazed third strikes past ten enemy batsmen.
Notre Dame spotted Northwestern’s Wildcats four runs in the first inning and then went on to pound out a 10-5 decision over the Evanston invaders May 11 on Cartier field. Outside of the first inning when touched for a grand slam home run by Fatso Day, Dick Smullen kept the visitors well under control, yielding only three hits while sending eight Wildcat batters to the bench with their bats in their hands. Tom Martin, with a double and triple, and Dick Gied-lin, with a double and two singles, spearheaded the Irish attack on three Northwestern hurlers.
Led by Co-Captain Ray Petrzelka and Dick Giedlin, the Irish made it four wins in a row by blasting the University of Chicago, 14-3, last Saturday on Cartier field. Until Petrzelka started the onslaught with a towering home run drive to deep center field in the third inning, the contest shaped up as a pitching duel. But after seeing Ray’s wallop, the rest of the team caught fire and combed three Maroon hurlers for fifteen hits. Walt Mahannah was never in trouble, scattering five hits and whiflmg eight.
The Scholastic
28
Graduation Plans
(Continued from Page 10)
Washington Hall.
Sunday morning at 8:30, the seniors will file into the University Stadium for the Solemn Pontifical Mass and the baccalaureate sermon will be preached by the Rev. Paul Bussard of St. Paul, Minn., editoi- of the Catholic Digest. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing. Immediately after Mass, the flag presented by the Class of ’49 on Washington’s birthday will be blessed and raised. Tickets are necessary for- admission to the Baccalaureate Mass.
At 2:30 in the afternoon, the conferring of degrees will take place in the Stadium. A commencement address will be given by Mr. John S. Burke of New York City, the president of the B. Altman and Company department store of that city. Once again tickets are required for admission.
Caps and gowns will be worn by the graduates for all regular- class exercises. These will be available at concession booths in the University Stadium, near gates 1 and 17 from two to six o’clock of the afternoon of Friday, June 3. The robes will be returned to these same concession booths immediately following the commencement exercises.
Plans have been made to set up one of the dining halls as an additional cafeteria to supplement the main cafeteria over the weekend. It is also planned to have the “Huddle” open for the convenience of the guests. Programs are being printed for the guests giving the time and place of all activities in detail. The programs will include a pictorial map of the campus, with the buildings represented in sketches.
For commencement on Sunday afternoon, the seniors will file into the Stadium from the north end by twos, march down the field to the altar at the south end, and then file into the stands. The University Band will lead them. Seniors, faculty and band are expected to swell the number of the impressive procession to over 1200.
WHOT fo Broadcast
Martin's Music Tonight
Station WHOT will broadcast the music of Freddy Martin and his orchestra direct from the Senior Ball in the Drill Hall tonight from 10:30 to 11 p.m.
Special arrangements have been made with the Philadelphia restaurant and LaSalle Hotel coffee shop to remain open until 3:30 a.m. This will give seniors and their dates a chance for a snack after the ball.
May 20, 1949
University Paving Project Tests New Type of Cement
About two weeks ago, residents of Morrissey, Lyons and Howard Halls were blocked on their way to breakfast by strange looking machines, heavy drums of gooey stuff and men working on the sidewalks. The situation has continued and has caused some comment and puzzlement over the purpose of the activities.
eicM. 1949
May we extend our best wishes to you upon completion of your studies at Notre Dame. You have our sincere wish for continued success. It has been a pleasure for us at Parker-Winterrowd to have known you and worked with you.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc. 115/2 NORTH MAIN ST.
Second Floor — Upstairs
“South Bend's Oldest Custom-Tailors"
As part of a campuswide “sidewalk repair” program, this section has been selected for experiment with a new type of cement. The purpose is to level off those sections of the sidewalk which have sunk somewhat in recent years, and if the new process is found practical, it will be extended to the other sections of campus paving. Although the new cement is more expensive, a saving in labor costs is anticipated because with the new process it is unnecessary to rip up old walks.
29
Price Heads Drive
For World Federation
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry, has been named as chairman of the organizing committee of the United World Federalists of St. Joseph County. The committee has been particularly active recently, since this week has been proclaimed World Government Week by the mayors of South Bend and Mishawaka.
In a statement to Scholastic, Dr. Price said: “Because of the accomplishments of modern science and technology, the United States is no longer protected by distance and two oceans. We are therefore now inevitably involved in international problems. It is the belief of the United World Federalists that we must advocate solution of these problems on the basis of American principles of just and enforceable law through the authority of a representative form of federal government.
“We believe that the United States government should immediately establish as the basis of its foreign policy the strengthening of the United Nations, through amendment, into a world federation, in many basic respects similar to that uniting our forty-eight states, with authority to enact and enforce world law designed to prevent war and to protect the domestic rights of its member nations.”
During this week the organization of a local chapter of the United World Federalists is being complete. Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics; Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c., head of the Department of Philosophy and dean of the graduate school; Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, professor of philosophy; Jerome J. Crowley, Jr., head of the Notre Dame Club of South Bend; and Herbert E. Jones, business manager for athletics, have signed the membership petition.
—Dick Rosengarten
Special Accounting Course To Be Offered This Summer
Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c., Director of Studies, announced yesterday that the College of Commerce will offer a special course in accounting for parish and parochial schools during the summer session from June 20 to August 12. The course is designed to serve the interests of parish priests and sisters engaged in school administration.
The course, which will be offered in the Department of Accounting, will cover basic accounting principles and terminology suitable for parish and parochial school work.	.
JO
The Scholastic
Catholic Radio Leaders To Meet Here in July
Prominent personages in the field of radio from all parts of the country will gather at Notre Dame July 29-31 for the third annual convention of the Catholic Broadcasters Association. Diocesan radio directors as well as either laymen or clergy interested in producing Catholic programs are invited to attend.
Preliminary plans for the meeting were drawn up here last week by Monsignor Francis X. Sallaway, director of radio for the Archdiocese of Boston, Rev. Eugene P. Murphy, s.J., director of the Sacred Heart Hour, and Dale Francis, a graduate student in political science at Notre Dame.
Francis, who is a member of the board of directors of the Association, will serve as convention chairman. Rev. Archibald McDowell, C.S.C., of the ND Department of Religion, and Orville Foster, of the University Audio-Visual Department, are also members of the committee in charge of organizing the meeting.
According to the present schedule, the convention will open July 29 with a banquet. The next day’s program calls for panel discussions in many phases of radio and television work, conducted by experts in the various fields treated. The convention ■will close on Sunday, July 31, with Mass and a Communion Breakfast.
Rooms are available to visitors at a moderate fee. Full details can be obtained by writing Dale Francis at Box 32, Notre Dame.
Politics vs. Secularism Discussed at Banquet
The importance of politics, and the role of the politician in the present battle against secularism was discussed by Harry Hogan, honorary president of the Notre Dame Alumni association in a speech Wednesday, May 11, before the students and faculty of the Department of Political Science.
Occasion for the address was the first annual dinner of the political science group held in the Hotel LaSalle. The affair was arranged under the direction of William Stockman, Jim Clyne, and Earl Meisenbach, all seniors in the department. Don Lueck, also a senior, was the master of ceremonies for the dinner.
In addition to the speech of Mr. Hogan, a prominent Fort Wayne, Ind., attorney and civic leader, brief talks were given by members of the faculty of the department.
The meeting was designed to bring the students and faculty into closer social and academic relations.
By BO CONNOR
I cornered Angelo (Turk) Turko the other day and found out wh'at it was like to be the winner of a give-away show. Turk, a freshman from Omaha, Neb., was the first to hit pay dirt on WND’s Requestfully Yours program. He said it couldn’t be beat.
Having a date is almost a “must” for any winner on the local show—most of the prizes come in twosomes. Turk didn’t have any trouble: he just stepped across the street from where he lives, and picked up a young neighbor, Miss Irma Webber. Turk used to live in Dillon, but he recently moved to Mishawaka, where he lives with his sister. He seems to have had a double motive for moving out there: residence with someone from the family, and a job at Studebaker.
At any rate, he and Irma started out one Saturday afternoon about five o’clock to cash in on the prizes. They spent an hour at Robertson’s Record Shop playing records, and finally left there unth two of them (one on the house.) Then they picked up a box of candy at the Philadelphia Restaurant, and moved from there to Papandrea’s for a spaghetti dinner. After that, they took in a movie at the Colfax, and ended the evening by dancing at the Palais.
Turk had spent some time collecting the other gifts before picking up Irma. He had his suit cleaned at Rubin’s, walked off with a new tie from Parker-Winterrowd, picked up two ball-point pens at Smith’s Camera Shop, and received a cigarette lighter from the
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alum»3 num shank and genuine imported briar bo wig
Sm QNUMYramn Get yow DANA FIFE
Send to
MMT, kN-CE,	mWi
50s
■with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIFE MIXTONE
June 30. ISO
people at Berman’s Sport Shop. He was all set for a big evening after he got Irma’s orchid from Williams’ Flower Shop.
I asked Turk how the evening went off — any embarrassing moments? He said, “Not many, although we felt a little foolish at the Philadelphia and Palais Royale. Everyone was staring at us when wre had our picture taken there. They must have thought we were celebrities, and I kind of liked it. The whole evening was really swell, but we were both pooped on Sunday. One thing bothers me now, though. I used the fountain pen just once, lost it, and haven’t been able to find it since. I’ve still got that cigarette lighter, though.”’
when you fly home on
UNITED
Mainliners
“Out-of-pocket” costs are often less than rail plus pullman — and don’t forget, there are no extra costs aloft . . . even your meals are included in your ticket!
UNITED AIR UNES
Airport Terminal, Call 2-1401 OR, SEE AN AUTHORIZED TRAVEL ASENT
May 20, 1949
3-
Lay Trustees and Advisory Councils Meet Here Today
Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees and two advisory councils will hold their first joint meeting today and tomorrow on the campus.
The two advisory councils which will meet with the Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame are the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering and the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce.
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing and administering endowment funds of the University. The Advisory Council of Science and Engineering, composed of leading industrialists, serves in an advisory capacity to the Colleges of Science and Engineering at Notre Dame, while leading business men comprising the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce serve in a similar capacity for the College of Commerce.
Ernest M. Morris, chairman of the Board of the Associates Investment Company in South Bend, is president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, while I. A. O’Shaughnessy, President of the Globe Oil Company, is vice-president. Edgar Kobak, of New York City, retiring president of the Mutual Broadcasting System, is chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and Bradley Dewey, president of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Co., is vicechairman. Charles M. Reagan, vicepresident and director of Paramount Pictures, Inc., is chairman of the Advisory
Vic Vet
KEEP THAT APPOINTMENT FOR YOUR PKAWTYRATIN6 PHYSICAL EXAM.-NO AWARD CAN PE MADE UNTIL YOUR MEDICAL RECORDS ARE COMPLETE
M-M5
Far fall infonnatian contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION Office
Council for the College of Commerce, and Judson S. Sayre, president of the Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., is vicechairman.
Fr. Sauvage Marks Fiftieth Year in C.S.C.
Fifty years ago a young man lay prostrate before an altar in Rome. He was a long way from his native Brittany, and on that day, April 1, 1899, he became a priest in the Eternal City. That young man is now the Very Rev. George M. Sauvage, C.S.C., who last month celebrated his 50th sacerdotal jubilee in the Community Infirmary here.
From all quarters have come messages of congratulation and good wishes. The Holy Father- imparts his apostolic blessing; Archbishop Cicognani assures Father Sauvage of remembrance in his Mass. Rev. Edward Heston, C.S.C., sends a rosary from the Pope. From Cardinal Lavitrano, of the Sacred Congregation of Religious, and from Cardinal Mosella, of the Sacred Congregation of the Sacraments, come expressions of esteem and gratitude.
Father Sauvage has come a long way since that day in Rome. Returning to his native land, he taught until 1903, when the French government outlawed all religious communities. The young priest, like many of his fellows, then came to the United States, where he taught theology in Washington until 1914. During that time, he served as professor for many of the priests now at Notre Dame, including the president and vice-president of the University.
Although France would not accept him as a religious, she would take him as a soldier, and in 1914 he was called to France for military service. The priest spent a period in the Army’s medical corps and was then made an interpreter with the British Army. During this time he served with Bishop Dey of the English forces.
Toward the war’s close, the French government stepped in again and made Father Sauvage a member of a military mission to the United States. He was in Nebraska when the Armistice came.
The superior general of the Congregation soon sent him to Rome, where he served both as Procurator General and as Superior of the International House of Studies. Father Sauvage filled these two posts almost continuously until he returned to this country. While in Rome, he also served as Consultor for the Sacred Congregation of Religious and for the Sacred Congregation of the Sacraments.
For over a year Father Sauvage has resided in the Community Infirmary here.	—Charley DuUea
Ray Still in Danger
(Continued from Page 9)
rosaries for his recovery while the whole student body was reminded in the daily Religious Bulletin to remember him in their prayers.
Bob Fitzpatrick, who suffered a painful back injury and a broken vertebra in the same accident, has been transferred from South Haven to the St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend, where he is now receiving treatment. He is reported to be recovering nicely, but will be strapped in a cast until his back heals. Also receiving treatment at St. Joseph Hospital is Blaine Gallagher who was likewise placed in a cast last week for a back injury he received when Tony Ray’s auto left the highway and crashed into a tree on May 7.
The two other students in the wreck were less seriously injured and have been back on the campus since the day after the accident. Eugene F. Lutz suffered a broken right shoulder in the smashup, and his roommate, Howard M. Cook, escaped with minor cuts and bruises.
ND Student Geologists Attend Field Conference
Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick, Dr. Erhard Winkler, and 15 Notre Dame geology students were among those attending the Third Annual Indiana Geologic Field Conference, held recently at Huntington, Ind.
The topic of the conference for this year was the study of reef structures of the Silurian period of geologic time which were deposited millions of years ago. Reefs of this type, somewhat similar to coral reefs, yield an important part of the petroleum used in the United States. The Leduc field in Canada is a recent petroleum development in such a reef.
The conference, led by such eminent geologists as Dr. R. R. Shrock of M.I.T., Drs. Esarey and Galloway of Indiana University, and Dr. Lowenstam of the University of Chicago, visited about a dozen quarries and prominent outcroppings in the area. Rocks, minerals, and fossils found on the reef were collected and photographs were taken of the various types of structures.
The three-day meeting was sponsored by Indiana University in conjunction with the Indiana department of conservation. Over 150 representatives of 10 universities, as well as men from several oil companies and officials of the state and federal geological surveys attended.
32
The Scholastic
Names Make News
JOSEPH GASPARELLA, a sophomore student of architecture at Notre Dame, received a “first mention” from the Beaux Arts Institute of Design recently for his design of a “Greenhouse and Nursery.” He also won the Frederick Herons prize for his design of a “Wedding Chapel.”
HUGH BURNS, athletic trainer at Notre Dame, addressed the Mishawaka Lions Club recently in Hotel Mishawaka. Bums was introduced by Marvin Zell-mer, program chairman, and spoke on the university’s sports training program.
A Cana conference for married couples was conducted last Sunday in St. Joseph school auditorium, Mishawaka, by Rev. THEODORE HES-BURGH, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion at Notre Dame. The lecture was along the lines of Father Hes-burgh’s classes in Christian marriage at the University. He discussed the problems which modern society creates for family life. A renewal of the marriage vows by the couples climaxed the service.
JAMES MARCHELEWICZ will become the first graduate to coach football and basketball at Central Catholic high school, South Bend, when he assumes his new duties on Aug. 15. In addition to his coaching duties Marchelewicz, a senior in the physical education department at the University, will teach courses in health and safety in the high school. He graduated from Central Catholic in 1944 and spent two years in the navy as an aviation electrician’s mate before coming to Notre Dame.
The members of the United States foreign service toil in shirt sleeves and present a combination Quiz Kid, Emily Post, and Perry Mason far more often than the glamorous characters in white tie and tails, explained WILLIAM R. DUGGAN, American vice-consul in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on a recent visit to South Bend. Duggan is a holder of two degrees from Notre Dame and veteran of six years in the American foreign service. He mentioned such jobs as getting Americans out of trouble, forwarding patent applications to the United States, answering questions regarding the U. S., and
giving information to American tourists, • as some of the duties of a vice-consul, but said that he had to give a diplomatic “No” to a Canadian girl who asked for help in picking out her trousseau.
In a surprise testimonial banquet Mayor Martin Kennelly, of Chicago; Illinois State Senator Norman C. Barry, and 500 friends and former neighbors honored EDWARD (MOOSE) KRAUSE, recently appointed as Notre Dame director of athletics, in Chicago’s “back of
ED KRAUSE
A Kaiser from his neighbors
the yards” district. The banquet was held in the Holy Cross auditorium and was climaxed with the presentation of a Kaiser automobile. Krause grew up in Holy Cross parish before attending De LaSalle high school in Chicago and going on to national fame at Notre Dame.
Representatives of all the major Chicago papers and W. R. Walton, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune-, head coach FRANK LEAHY; BERNIE CRIMMINS, JOE McARDLE and JOHN DRUZE, of the Notre Dame coaching staff; Rev. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Rev. John Vysnauskas, assistant pastor of Holy Cross parish, paid tribute to Krause.
Professor WILLIAM O. SHANAHAN, professor of History, will leave June 10 on the Nieuw Amsterdam for a threemonth tour of libraries and archives in
England, France and Switzerland. His primary research findings will he incorporated in a book entitled History of the Mercenary Army, tracing ■ the role of “hired soldiers” in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. Another object of Dr. Shanahan’s studies will be the German Protestant social movement in the late 19th century.
Mr. JOHN J. HOOKER, instructor in history at Notre Dame, will begin his trip through England, France and Belgium on July 1, also leaving on the Nieuw Amsterdam. His topic of research will be the economic and historical geography of 18th century Flanders.
Rev. WILLIAM M. DUGAN, class of ’41, will be ordained May 21 in Blessed Sacrament Cathedral, Detroit, Mich. His First Solemn High Mass will be offered on May 26 in St. Philip’s Church in Battle Creek, Mich.
The current issue of The American Journal of Economics and Sociology announces as a future article, “Economics and Ethics,” by HERBERT JOHNSTON, assistant professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. Dr. Johnston has also contributed an article, “Locke’s Leviathan," to a recent issue of The Modern Schoolmen.
Social Notes
Mr. and Mrs. Paul O. Beriault, of South Bend, recently announced the engagement of their daughter, Peggy Beriault, to JAMES L. MARCHELEWICZ, son of Mr. and Mrs. Peter J. Marchelewicz, of South Bend. He is a senior in the Notre Dame Department of Physical Education.
Miss Doris Jean Behrndt, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Behrndt of South Bend, and ARTHUR R. CLARK, son of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Clark, also of South Bend, were married recently. Clark is a graduate of Notre Dame.
BILL “MOOSE” FISCHER, captain and All-American guard on the 1948 Notre Dame football team, will marry Miss Roma Ardell Kainer on June 2 in Glenview, Ill.
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 10. Rumely; 12. Fitzgerald: 14. Fitzgerald (right); 15. Fitzgerald; 18 and 19. Rumely; 2L Fitzgerald: 22. Fitzgerald (left) and Munger; 23. Harlan; 24. Murphy: 26. Fitzgerald; 27. Rumely.
38
May 20, 1949
7:30 a. m.	7:30 p. m.
FOR RENT
White Formal Coats Forma Is Tuxedos
•
ALL Types of Costumes
WIGS, BEARDS, MUSTACHES and ACCESSORIES
Burns Costume Shop
608 Liberty Drive MISHAWAKA Phone 5-5237
OMPMG NIK
^WEMI MUEMESS
In Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region
Complete outfitting aerrice $3.50 a day with Grumman aluminum canoes. Food, your ehoiee—extra.
Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lo and 20 log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. American Plan rates S8.00 and up.
■mmh B.Y., MINNESOTA
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
This column is, for Max A. Browser and his rantings, the end. There will be no more eruptions of this flavor from the back page. There will be no more foaming at the mouth. Max is dead. Long live Max!
What this column has accomplished during its 26-issue existence is hard to say. We realize, Max and I, that its popularity has never been a campuswide phenomenon. We realize that a few letters and a postcard don’t make a columnist — for good or bad. And that’s about all we were able to stir up plus a few nasty remarks dropped here and there.
But because it wouldn’t have taken too much, from our viewpoint, to justify this eifort, there may be a chance yet that our words have paid off somewhere.
You see, when we started out our purpose was to comment on student activities and affairs and student leaders such as they are at Notre Dame. There are different approaches to this purpose. Ours simply was from one of the student body, representing, as much as we were able, what we considered responsible student opinion.
In the light of that we looked at every activity and every campus leader as groups and men who ought to be aware of the responsibilities they have toward the University, the students they represented and themselves. We judged them accordingly.
That we judged most of them harshly can, we think, be attributed to the fact that we had our sights aimed high. We are aware, and were throughout the writing of these epics, that there are plenty of organizations on campus and plenty of students doing a fine, progressive job. On rare occasions we praised them. The fact that we urged them on to higher things and perhaps prodded them sharply when they didn’t respond is the result of some pretty firm convictions of our own.
We believe deeply in Notre Dame and what she stands for. We believe in the potentiality of the great Christian force that lies embedded in her very beginnings and auspices. We were, in our
own way, trying to bring that potential into being in as many places as we saw it still dormant.
Notre Dame, its administrators, students, alumni have a big job to do in a world that isn’t making it easy. In the midst of the revolution of the anti-Christ it is for them to go on the offensive of Faith and Truth. Each and every one of them, in his own sphere must be' leaders or trained as leaders.
As far as the student is concerned that training for Christian leadership should begin right here on campus. It should begin in the campus club, in the class officership, as well as on the athletic field and the classroom. It should begin as a consciousness within every student that he is part of a tradition, a force for good, that he has a responsibility to take the lead in the affairs of his Church and Faith. If that consciousness is not found here, during undergraduate training days, it will be hard to find in a world hardly aware of its need or existence.
That is why what the Northern Po-dunk Club does is really important. That is why class officers should ever be doing more and more, why the Student Senate must keep moving as it is now.
That is the why of this column. If we have failed to contribute anything to that consciousness then we have completely failed in our task and purpose.
—Greg Halpin
BARN DANCE TONIGHT
Swing your partner . . . circle around!
A real old-fashioned Hoosier Bam Dance is scheduled for tonight at the Family Acres bam northeast of the university. Free busses will leave from the Co-Hop YCW Center at 7:30 and 8:20 p.m. and will return direct to the campus.
It's either stag or drag, with plenty of Co-Hop girls on hand. A band, caller and instructor will be at the bam to assure fun for all.
The Center is located at 325 Lincoln Way West.
34
The Scholastic
"If safety records were newsL
If safety were spectacular, it would be front-page news that Bill Jones and other telephone men drive 55,000 vehicles more than a million miles a day—with one of the nation’s lowest accident rates.
Today, for example, Bill will drive a lot of miles. He’ll guide his familiar green telephone truck through the heavy traffic of shopping centers, he’ll go along quiet streets where children play, he’ll travel lanes and highways at the edge of town. And every mile, every turn, will always
be driven steadily and carefully.
You see, Bill and the telephone company consider good driving as much a part of his job as installing a telephone. The truck which Bill drives is checked and serviced regularly, so it’s always safety-perfect. And Bill gets a lot of training in safety —training that covers all phases of his work.
Bill has helped put together one of the best safety records in the country. It’s a record we’re proud of—and so is Bill.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
xy 20, 1949
35
Copyright W9, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co.