Two
Index of Advertisers
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR
Adler, Max _______________________28-29
Arrow Shirt  29
Block’s Jewelry __________________   38
Bookstore, Notre Dame ____________   34
Bruggner's  32
Burke  38
Cain ______________________________  38
Centenary Set _______________________34
Chesterfield Back Cover
Coca-Cola   36
Douglas Shoe  33
Ellsworth's _________________________ 32
General Electric _______________     31
Georges'  30
Gilbert's  2
Grundy, Dr. O. J. __________________ 38
Hans-Rintzsch _______________________ 38
Harper's  38
Huddle  31
Krauss Jewelry _____________________ 34
Lowers  38
Lucas, Dr. Robert ...............    38
Marvin's __________________________   37
Parker-Winterrowd _________________   30
Probst, Dr 38
Railway Express  35
Rose Dental Group___________________ 38
Singler, Dr. _____________________   38
Sonneborn's  35
South Bend X-Ray ___________________ 38
South Shore_________________________ 37
Stamp Shop  38
Sunny Italy Cafe ____________________34
Western Electric  39
Wyman's  37
for the Various Colleges and for the Graduate School
Winter Semester of 1945-46
November 3—Saturday: Registration of new students of the Navy V-12 with the deans for courses in the winter semester.
November 5—Monday: Registration of old students of the Navy V-12 for courses and registration of civilian students with the director of student accounts and with the deans. Fee for registration after November 5, $5.
November 6—Tuesday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
November 9—Friday: Latest date for change of courses.
November 12—Monday: Latest time for registration in courses.
December 22—Saturday: Latest date for midsemester report of lower-grade students.
December 22—Saturday noon to Friday 8:00 a.m.: Christmas recess, to 28
January 7—Monday to Saturday: Preregistration for courses in the spring to 12 semester of 1946.
February 22—Friday to Wednesday: Semester examinations for all students, to 27
February 27—Wednesday: Convocation of faculty for the conferring of degrees at 8:00 p.m.
eep up on Notre Dame News—subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service—
$ 1.00 for the Winter semester
Name.
Address.
A SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you soon—or you may Clip Blank and Mail to Publications Office—Notre Dame. Indiana
Three
^he SVotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
tiiititiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiliiiiitiliiiiiiliiiiiliiiiiiiliii uiiiiiiiiiliiiliii (lit 11 mi til I lllllltlllliillllllliillltlllllimi
«ita«itmiiitti<itmitiiimiitiiimiiiitiiimiiiiitiiimtiimimiiiimiitiiimiiiiimiiitiiiitiimiiiiiititiiimi
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
GEORGE COLLINS -	-
JOHN DEFANT -	-
PHIL CORBOY, LOUIS HAFNER
james f. McCarthy -
J. W. BURNS -	-
Navy Associate Editor
- Managing Editor
- Sports Editors
- Feature Editor
- Club Editor
COLUMNISTS
HARRY WALTERS -	-	- The Green Banner
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-	- The Crow's Nest
DAN DANISZEWICZ -	- The College Parade
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES FARLEY JAMES JOHN JOHN GUNTHER RUDY SCHREITMUELLER BILL SUTHERLAND GEORGE MacDONALD JOE RENINGER JAMES GREENE THOMAS JASPER . SAMUEL HAZO BOB CUNNINGHAM
LAURENCE McDERMOTT JOHN O'BRIEN JACK SULLIVAN JOHN KRAUGER PAUL WEYRAUCH BRENDAN O'GRADY RUSSELL TRITICO PAUL RAGAN FRANK TYCHSEN DICK CULLEN TOM SCHIELDER
JAMES FERSTEL -ARTHUR COUGHLAN . -REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C. ADVERTISING -	-
- Photography
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor
Publications Office
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all corespondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDITORIAL
"With Our Hearts and Minds .. ."
It might seem unbelievable to most of us but we are crossing the threshold of a new kind of life. Though we all have been counting the semesters, the months, the weeks and finally the days before our graduation, we cannot but possess an almost indescribable feeling of regret now that the long-awaited commencement day is almost upon us.
We shall be leaving the campus with its familiar landmarks, each connected with the memory of a happy incident, an enjoyable class, or a tranquil moment. We shall be leaving our professors from whose example we have profited much. We shall be leaving our friends, our old rooms, our textbooks, and our seats in the student section at the football games. We shall be leaving Notre Dame, and we all regret to do so.
In a way it seems but a week since we viewed, from the far end of Notre Dame Avenue, the Golden Dome of Our Lady with her arms outstretched in welcome. Loaded with the usual baggage, we asked a young Holy Cross Brother about the location of the Main building. We remember the campus on cold winter days, with the wind whipping the snow in huge swirls across Badin bog, the campus with its Autumn leaves and the deep green of spring and summer. Then we realize that eight semesters of study have slipped by quickly.
We all remember our initial dislike for the disciplinary rules and regulations of the University, as we longed to spend many week-ends at home. Now, most of us regard them as essential in moulding our character and tempering our will.
We have been fortunate in being able to continue our education while others have been fighting a merciless enemy. The forces of Justice have triumphed. They have done their part well. And so have the University and the student body—all of those who have been learning the Christian principles which can alone restore order to this chaotic world.
From now on we shall be on our own. It will be up to us to live up to those principles which have made Notre Dame, now our Alma Mater, so famous throughout the world.
Now our class will break up as its members return to their homes in every section of the United States. We shall carry the scrapbook of memory filled to overflowing with pleasant recollections; our minds and hearts have been forever trained for “God, Country and Notre Dame.”
The Senior Class, October, 1945
Four
Presenting the Graduating Seniors
LOUIS JOHN BARSOTTI
Bachelor of Arts
“Where’s that boy Louie?” cried the philosophy teacher. “Here I am Father," replied the smiling lad in the front row with a voice that dripped with southern fried chicken and sugar-cured ham. It was Lou Barsotti of Memphis, Tennessee, and North St. Peter Street.	-
“The Monster" will leave one record behind him when he returns to Memphis. He will have taken more weekends than any other Notre Dame student since Alexis Coquillard first traded a load of furs to Father Sorin for an education.
Lou has majored in Economics and has been one of the pillars of the Economic Roundtable, serving that organization as its secretary and treasurer.
“Roly-poly” Lou lists beating Frank Kent 7172 in a golf match as his biggest thrill at Notre Dame. He also will carry many fond memories of his association with Kelly, Garry, Ryan, and Malone, the off-campus inseparables.
Lou plans on returning to Memphis to enter business with his father.
We start off the grads with affable Lou, Then Brother Leonardo poses for you. Berliner next, one of C. A.'s big names. And last but not least is the Butler boy, James
of
October, 1945
BROTHER LEONARDO BEBETU, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts
Brother was bom in Erie, Pennsylvania, and graduated from the Cathedral Prep in that city. He entered Notre Dame in September of 1941-English has been his major subject.
JAMES CAHILL BUTLER
B. S. in Metallurgical Engineering
Rolling down from Waukegan, Ill., comes “Smiling Jim” Butler to join the ranks of October graduates. He made his first appearance on the campus in January ’43 and has been a big man on campus. Jim participated in cross country, fought in the Bengal Bouts, excelled in gymnastics, played a hot bull fiddle in the Swing band and served in the regimental and University bands. During the last semester he has very capably guided the Metallurgy Club as its president.
One of the fondest memories of his stay on the campus of Our Lady is that of his first few weeks as a Freshman in Brownson Hall.
Jim has been a member of the V-12 for seven semesters, and while in it he worked his way up the student officer ranks to become regimental commander.
After terminating his Navy career, he plans to do graduate work in Metallurgy and enter industry.
HAROLD ANTHONY BERLINER
Bachelor of Law
The figure of Harry Berliner bustling around the campus, with his arms full of law books and Catholic Action pamphlets, has become almost as familiar a sight as Brother “Dome.” Harry has been a busy lad, serving at one time or another as president and treasurer of the Student Council, managing editor of the SCHOLASTIC, publicity director of the Catholic Action Society, founder and manager of the Eric Gill Press, and a member of the Mass Club, the Inter-American Affairs Club, and the Bookmen.
A graduate of St. Ignatius High School in San Francisco, and a transfer student from the University of San Francisco, Harry has also managed to squeeze in a little work in the Law School with his varied activities.
After graduation, Harry plans to become a printer and a publisher.
Five
Presenting the Graduating Seniors...
JAMES JOSEPH DONOVAN Bachelor of Arts (Phy. Ed.)
When "Little Mel” Donovan packs his trunk for Bayonne. New Jersey, he will have to find room for a Phy Ed degree, a drawer full of intramural medals and a picture of Beverly. The degree represents many hours of hard work, for Jim ranks with the most conscientious students on campus. The medals are the result of sterling play on championship teams in basketball, baseball, volleyball and softball from Sorin Hall. The picture of Beverly is purely extra-curricular.
He served as a member of the Student Council, and while many of the advances that body has made can be traced to his efforts, he admits defeat in one of his proposed reforms: Senator Donovan couldn't get the screens taken off Sorin Hall.
One of the original "Sub men,” Jim's graduation leaves Art Kern:n without a roommate.
Some high school in New Jersey is going to be extremely lucky in the near future when it hires Jim as coach and teacher.
FRANCIS JOSEPH CURRAN
B. S. in Pre. Med.
Cathedral High School in Indianapolis sent Frank Curran to Notre Dame. Although completing his Pre. Med. course in seven semesters, he has managed to participate in many campus activities. He has been a member of the Academy of Science, the Aesculapians, and the Glee Club.
He has earned his way through school by working as a laboratory assistant in the Biology Department, prefect of St. Edward's Hall, and reference librarian. In addition he says he spent much of his free time (Where did he get it? we ask.) at Rosy's and his summer week-ends in Michigan City.
He has earned a fellowship for graduate study at Notre Dame and after earning his master’s degree he plans to enter the Indianapolis Medical School. If a sunny disposition, straightforward character, and a capacity for hard work are criteria of success, we predict the best for Frank Curran.
JOSEPH EDWARD FAUST
B. S. in Metallurgical Engineering
Hailing from the thriving metropolis of Indianapolis, Indiana, is Edward Faust. “Ed” as he is usually called, will be holding down a Cum Loude when he graduates in October.
He left Cathedral High in the middle of his senior year and came to Notre Dame in January 1943. He transferred to the Navy program the next semester and has remained here ever since. His favorite hideout seems to be the “sack.”
Ed was the big cog that helped start the new Metallurgy Club and was elected president of that club the first semester. The most memorable experience for him was the N-D.-Great Lakes game of 1944. He will leave behind him the friendly and congenial atmosphere existing among the students and profs as something he will miss most. After graduation Ed plans to spend some time in die Navy and to do graduate work at N.D.
Presenting Frank Curran of St. Edward's hall.
Then Donovan, Jim, who "nose" them all. And next Ed Faust who plays the rhymer With Gorman Garry, the Fairmount big timer.
MICHAEL GORMAN GARRY
B. S. in Business Administration
President of the Commerce Forum and of the Economic Round-Table, chairman of the Senior Ball, member and vice-president of the Student Council, possessor of a cum laude average and circumlocutionist extraordinary — that is a short word picture of Fairmont, Minnesota’s "Gorman” Garry. He entered Notre Dame as a green Freshman (We can’t picture Mike as a "green” Fieshman, but he swears that he was greener than Clashmore Mike’s blanket). After a year in architecture, he found that the lure of the Commerce School was too great and he became one of the leaders of the Yacht Club boys, flashing his knowing grin and making his presence felt in all forms of campus activity.
Teaming with Tom McCaughey, Mike spent many a week-end touring the St. Mary’s circuit.
After graduation, Mike is going back to Minnesota, Land of the Sky Blue Waters, and enter the grain business. We wish him every success and shall always remember him for his genial ccmpanionship and jovial personality.
Six
... of October Nineteen Hundred Forty-Five
DONALD ARTHUR HOWARD
Bachelor of Science (Aero)
From the U.S. Navy to Sorin Sub is a jump that would result in a fatal shock for an ordinary man; but Don Howard of Albany, New York, took his association with Sub characters in stride, and now comes up for air, holding a degree in Aeronautical Engineering.
Don started at Notre Dame in September 1941 after his graduation from Vincentian Institute in Albany. He has been active in the American Society of Metals and the Aero Club. He passes his leisure moments practicing for the Bengal Bouts, and recently it is said he has been having trouble finding sparring partners.
After graduation, Don plans to join some airline firm for work in the research department.
ROBERT REEVES KASPER
Bachelor of Arts
Gentleman, scholar, and true friend are three synonyms for Bob Kasper. He is another of the Cathedral High School of Indianapolis graduates who have earned their Notre Dame degrees this semester.	•
Bob has been a member of the Economic Roundtable. for three semesters and capably performed as president during his last semester. He is the treasurer of the Senior Class and a member of the Student Council. He has also served as the secretary of Mr. William Downey of the Department of Economics.
Bob will not be present for the commencement services, for he received the “greetings" of President Truman after being “selected" by a group of his “neighbors” for Army service cn October 5th.
After he has collected the necessary points for a discharge Bob plans to return to Indianapolis and enter his father's furniture business. So in the future, look for Kasper’s armchairs to be in every living room.
Here is Don Howard, the Sorin Sub Boss; Next meet Brother Donan, of Holy Cross. The Army has Kasper—he's off to Japan— But they missed Joe Kelly, the Skyscraper man.
BROTHER DONAN JOHNROE, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts
Brother’s home town is Bay City. Michigan, and he is a graduate of St. Mary’s High School. He entered Notre Dame in February of 1943. History has been his major subject.
JOSEPH ADOLPH KELLY
B. S. in Aeronautical Engineering
High man in the graduating class is Joe Kelly with his six feet, eight inches of Akron. Ohio, manhood. A graduate of Akron North High School, he entered Notre Dame and decided to specialize in Aeronautical Engineering. In addition to learning how to calculate wind pressure and drift, Joe has found time to earn two monograms in track and football. He is the National Outdoor Champion in the discus and .has earned many points for “Doc" Handy's track squad as a shotputter.	■
Joe must have been in a nostalgic mood when he filled this questionnaire for he states: “I will miss most the fine spirit of democracy and religious leadership that prevails at Notre Dame.”
After graduation he plans to work for the air lines.
Seven
Presenting the Graduating Seniors...
JOHN FRANCIS LA BONTE
B. S. in Chemical Engineering
Jack graduated from De La Salle High School in Kansas City, Mo., and journeyed to Notre Dame to demonstrate that Kansas City men are shrewd and intelligent. He has proved his point for he will be awarded his degree Cum Laude.
He entered Notre Dame in September ’42, joined the Navy in January '43 and was stationed at Great Lakes. In July of that year he was transferred to the V-12 program and has been stationed here ever since.
Besides winning a place on the Varsity Track team. Jack has served as president of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Institute of Chemical Enginee-s. He has also been a member of the Catholic Action Society.
By his infectious grin. Jack has won many friends both on and off campus.
After graduation. Jack has no definite plans, for he will still be subject to Navy orders.
RAYMOND CONSTANTINE KOPITUK
B. S. in Metallurgical Engineering
Ray left Abraham Clark High, Roselle, New Jersey, in the middle of his senior year, and Jan. 22, 1943, found him plodding his way through a foot and a half of snow to the Main Building, to register at N.D. After a semester as a civilian, he switched to the Navy V-12 program.
During his eight semesters, Roselle's pride and joy has been a very busy fellow. He was on the program committee of the Metallurgy Club, led the swing band with his trumpet and helped organize the V-12 balls. In the V-12 unit he held the position of company commander and drum major of the Regimental Band. Add to these activities, his service in the University Band for eight semesters and his position as Navy Associate Editor of this graduation issue, and you begin to wonder how he found time to attend classes. After finishing his Navy service, Ray plans to enter industry.
DAVID SLAYTER LANDIS
Bachelor of Law
“Dapper" Dave Landis returned to South Bend, after earning his A.B. at Indiana University, with a twofold purpose in mind. First, he wanted to see his Alma Mater, Central High School, play football and, secondly, he wanted to study law. He has succeeded in both, for he is known as Central's number one fan and he has earned his law degree with a Cum Laude average.
Dave has been editor of the Notre Dame Latuyer and by his direction has enhanced its prestige as an authoritative law review. He has also enlivened many of the Lawyers' famous Socials with his solid sending on the 88 keys, specializing in applying the boogie-woogie treatment to Bach.
He will always remember the peaceful atmosphere of the Notre Dame campus and the sincere desire of the faculty to help the sutdents.
Eight
Meet Ray Kopituk, big man on the horn. And next La Bonte, the master of corn. With Landis, the lawyer, looking the part. And Ed La Rocque from nearby Elkhart.
EDWARD ALOYSIUS LAROCQUE
B. S. in Metallurgy
From nearby Elkhart, the home of Alka Seltzer, comes effervescent Ed “Tubby” Larocque. After graduating from Elkhart High, “Tubby” chose Notre Dame as his college, and metallurgy as his course. After a semester as a civilian, he entered the V-12 program. He has made many friends on campus and in nearby South Bend. Freddie at the Lido will long remember “Tubby.”
He has been a member of the Metallurgy Club and served on its program committee.
With “Tubby” in any room, study was impossible for textbooks always seem to take a second place in interest to a “LaRocque account” of his last big week-end.
After graduation, “Tub” says he will serve his hitch in the Navy, get a discharge and return to Notre Dame again to work for an advanced degree in Metallurgy and eat some more of the Dining Hall’s “El Rancho Stew.”
... of October Nineteen Hundred Forty-Five
ENRIQUE RENE LULLI
B. A. in Economics
If you happen to be passing by “Malecon 28 de Julio no. 571, Miraflores, Lima, Peru,” don’t fail to call on “Coco.” He will be Enrique R. Lulli, a leading exporter and importer of Peru. Just tell the butler that yen knew his boss when he was at Notre Dame, — when he was president of La Raza Club; vice-president of the Inter-American Affairs Club; feature writer on the SCHOLASTIC, and founder of Amistad, a Spanish publication on the campus, member of the Student Council, and professor of Spanish at St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, Indiana.
You will be ushered to “Coco’s” study, with his degree Cum Laude hanging over the fireplace. There you and he can talk over old times on the campus of Our Lady. Don't forget now that you will have the opportunity to visit a fine South American gentleman whose charm and intelligence will make you feel that he is your lifelong friend.
“Coco" is a graduate of Recoleta High School, Lima, Peru, and has attended the State University of Iowa. He plans to do some graduate work in Economics and to engage in business with his father.
BROTHER NELSON MC MAHON, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Science
Born in Kalamazoo and 'reared in Detioit, Michigan, Brother entered Notre Dame in February of 1943. He is a graduate of St. Cecilia’s High School in Detroit.
The smiling lad, Lulli, is bursting with joy;
The ad for Wildroot is Me Caughey.
Brother Nelson shares his part of the
page.
With F. E. Malone, the Toledo Sage.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS MC CAUGHEY
B. S. in Accounting
Here is the balance sheet of Tom McCaughey. an accounting major who found time to leave his world of debits and credits to become one of the most popular men on the campus. On the asset side of the ledger we find a Cum Laude average, participation in intramural sports, his position as president of the Senior Class, vice-president of the Commerce Forum, author of 'the popular column in the Scholastic “Man About Campus,” a little black book filled to overflowing with lovely sounding names of beauties from the South Side of Chicago to the North Side of Mishawaka. The liability side of the ledger is a complete blank for there isn’t a sour note on the personality of old “T.A.”
All of which balances into one swell fellow.
After graduation. Tom plans to work for Haskins and Sells accounting firm before entering law school. To carry the accounting theme to the very end. all we can add is that Notre Dame's loss is Haskins and Sells' gain.
EDWARD FRANCIS MALONE
B. S. in Foreign Commerce
Frank Malone, known alternately as “F. E.” and “Bud.” from Toledo. Ohio, and Houston. Texas, has been at Notre Dame since September 1942, and has made his stay a very active one indeed. While maintaining a cum laude average, he still found time to serve as corresponding secretary of the Knights of Columbus, and as an active member of the Commerce Forum for the last seven semesters. Always a sharp man in any form of debate, “F. E.” has been a constant thorn in the side of many a Forum orator. As the only graduate in Foreign Commerce, it is natural for him to nominate Marine Insurance as his favorite course.
But it is in his capacity as goodwill ambassador to St. Mary’s that he will be most remembered. for the names “Bud” and “Sheila” are almost as frequently joined as “ham” and “eggs.”
For four semesters he made Sorin Hall his campus headquarters, but recently gave up his place on the front porch swing to join the select men of St. Peter’s Street in their off-campus operations.	.
As for post-graduate plans, he states simply. “I just want one of Henry Wallace's 60 million jobs.”	-
Nine
Presenting the Graduating Seniors...
MICHAEL BALDO MANZO
B. S. in Physical Education
One of the New England's famous football playing Manzos, young Mike is prominent among the October graduates. Mike will always be remembered as the scholar who told History Prof, Schissler that it was not he but his twin brother who was cutting class.
A Phy-Ed major, he has completed an envi-_ able record as one of Mr. Scannell's supermen. He has been a member of the Varsity squad from 1941 to 1944 and has held the position of vice-president of the Boston Club.
Mike asserts that the desk and bed he has used in his room at historic Sorin must have been Knute Rockne's, for he swears that the termites are schooled in the Notre Dame shift.
After graduation he intends to return to the land of codfish and beans and enter the coaching field.
PATRICK ANTHONY MAZZA, JR.
B. S. in Pre. Med.
One of the few remaining “accelerated” students, Pat left Reading Central Catholic with his eye on an M.D. In another two semesters Pat will leave Notre Dame with the distinction of M.S. He intends to study for his M.D. at Jefferson, in Philadelphia.
While residing at St. Ed's and Sorin, Pat spurred on the softball and basketball teams with accurate pitching and fine offensive work at forward.
Though the Aesculapians and the Knights of Columbus have claimed some of his spare time, the Philadelphia Club will always remember their original organizer and staunch supporter. The position of Lab Instructor for Mr. Plunkett paid dividends — cash and invaluable experience made it very worthwhile.
Easy going, genial, ever laughing, Pat has diminished his timidity and has been labeled “one of the boys.”
(And as a room-mate, he's tops!)
Introducing Mike Manzo, a star of the grid,
San Diego's Dick Martin, the next handsome kid,
Reading Pat Mazza who seems in a trance.
Brother Isaac Jogues with a serious glance. ..
RICHARD NICHOLAS MARTIN
A.	B. in English
The words of Horace Greeley, “Go West Young Man” must never have reached San Diego, California, for young Dick Martin packed his clothes and his bottle opener and headed east for Notre Dame.
- He has been so very active that it has been wondered in some circles how he ever found time to unpack his bags. He has been Deputy Grand Knight of the K. of C., vice-president of the Student Council, secretary of the Wranglers, a member of the Bookmen, and of the InterAmerican Affairs Club. He has held down the “hot corner” for championship intramural softball teams from Sorin and St. Ed’s.
Dick plans to attend law school in his native state after spending the next two months following the Notre Dame football teams around the country. But he says he will miss the home of the spirit of Notre Dame, the classes of Professors O Malley and Rauch, and last but not least. "Georges” and the “DA..V."
BROTHER ISAAC JOGUES MOTZ, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts
Brother was bom in Fowler, Michigan, and entered Notre Dame in March 1944 after graduating from Sacred Heart High School in Detroit. His major subject has been Latin.
Ten
... of October Nineteen Hundred FortyrFive
ERNEST WARREN RAUSCHER Bachelor of Arts
The bell is about to sound at the end of the final round of the battle between the Bengal Bouts finalist, Ernie Rauscher, the Bloomfield Bomber, and Old Man Education. The fracas started in September 1942, after Ernie’s graduation from Seton Hall Prep, and the contestants have been at it ever since. During his scrap with Chaucer, Milton, and Shakespeare (Ernie is an English Major) he has also been Stadium and Personnel Manager of Football, a member of the New Jersey Club and of the Monogram Club, and has been active in intramural sports. Throughout the contest Ernie has displayed a world of confidence, and an ability to pile up more than enough points to win the decision with the coveted degree in English.
Ernie lists the spontaneous rally greeting the team after the Army game of 1944, and the Senior Prom, as the biggest thrills of the battle.
He plans to follow his father in the printing and advertising business, after g-aduation. Also ■nculded in his plans is a lovely blonde named Ruth. ’
HARRY JAMES RYAN
Bachelor of Science in Bus. Adm.
“Herm” Ryan of Les Angeles, California, used his text books for two things — first, he follows procedure and puts in an occasional hour of study, and secondly, he makes a neat pile of three thick volumes and uses them as an aid to shaving.
After his graduation from Campion Prep in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, “Herm” entered Notre Dame in September 1941. Originally a Pre-Med he quickly tired of the long hike to the Biology Building and joined the Yacht Club boys of the Commerce School. He has been an active member of the Commerce Forum, the Economic Roundtable, and the Knights of Columbus. He has taken time from his studies to aid the war effort and his bankroll by working for the U.S. Rubber Company and South Bend Tool and Die Co.
He is another member of the St. Peter’s Fraternity, holding the office of prefect of prefects.
“Herm” is noted for his ready wit, and served as master of ceremonies at the recent Senior Ball.
Plans after graduation—“Get a job.”
Look at Rauscher with a new red tie. While old "Sambo" Rizk turns on the evil eye.
Next is Herm Ryan with a great big grin.
While around the mouth, Sartore looks like his twin.
SAMUEL GEORGE RIZK
Bachelor of Science—Pre. Med.
In September 1942, Laurinburg. North Carolina. called one of her finest sons out of the tobacco fields and sent him north to get an education. Now Samuel George Rizk, known to his intimate friends as “Sambo.” returns to tobacco land with a degree from Notre Dame tucked in his pocket and an enviable record as a “Man About St. Joe County.”
He has been a member of the Biology Club for six semesters but still lists Biology as his hardest subject.
Sam’s loyalty to his school, unfailing good nature, and regard for the feelings of others have made him a welcome companion for all on campus. He might enter med school after he has enjoyed a well earned vacation. We are sure that the medical profession will be proud to number Sam among its members.
ARTHUR CHARLES SARTORE
B.	S. in Mechanical Engineering
“Chuck” Sartore left his ancestral home in Memphis. Tenn., to journey to the cruel North to get his education ameng th? “Yankees. And during his stay above the Mason and Dixon Line he has gradually forgotten that there ever was a war between the States.
A graduate of Christian Brothers’ High School in Memphis. “Chuck” has majored in Mechanical Engineering end has held the office of secretary-treasurer of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. He has served for two semesters on the Student Council and his Southern drawl was heard on many an occasion in the chambers of that auagust body as he proposed some progressive activity for the student body.
But it is as student prefect of the world famous Sorin Sub. the shepherd of such characters as “The Nose,” “the Berez.” “Jumbo,” “Creep.” and “Ace” that he has made his mark in Notre Dame’s history.
He plans to take a good vacation and dien use his mechanical engineering skill in industry.
Eleven
Presenting the Graduating Seniors...
GEORGE ROBERT SIPPEL
B. S. in Metallurgy
One of the four graduates of Cathedral High School in Indianapolis to be awarded his Notre Dame degree at the current commencement will be George Sippel.
“Sip” has been active in the Metallurgy Club and served on its program. He swears that he earned every point of that Cum Laude average while wearing his fingers to the bone in polishing specimens for the microscope in the Metallurgy Lab.
There seems to be two experiences which stand out as most memorable for “Sip”—his first day as a bewildered Freshman, and passing the snap course in Dynamics. He also says that he will remember, but not miss, the “cuisine” in “Ford’s Tin Tray Chop House."
After he is discharged from the Navy, George plans to take a short rest in Indianapolis and return to Notre Dame or to Carnegie Tech to do graduate work.
JAMES WILLIAM SCHAEFFER
A.	B. in Economics
Many an exciting story, written in a crisp, lucid style has appeared in the pages of the South Bend Tribune, carrying the byline of “James W. Schaeffer.” Many an examination, correct in every detail, has been handed into Notre Dame professors, bearing the name of “Jim Schaeffer.’ It's no sto-y of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde—just the case of an affable red-head from Winnetka, Illinois, attaining a Magna Cum Laude average while very capably filling the full-time position of police reporter for the South Bend Tribune.
After graduation from New Trier High School, Jim matriculated to Notre Dame in Jan., 1943. During his stay he has been a member of the Economic Round Table. When asked about his most memorable experience at Notre Dame, he replied. “There have been too many wonderful things to classify any one os the most memorable.” We think that is the perfect diplomatic answer, and a typical one. since Jim intends to enter the field of advertising and public relations after graduation.
Next is Schaeffer, chronicleer of South Bend,
Then Sippel who's happy that school's at an end.
The shocked look is Sylvester's, the happy pre-med.
While Brother Eugenius is looking well fed.
BROTHER EUGENIUS TRACEY, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts
JOSEPH MICHAEL SYLVESTER
B.	S. in Pre. Med.
When Joseph M. Sylvester left Andrew Jackson High School in St. Albans, Long Island, for Notre Dame, he intended to major in the fine arts. After cne semester, however, he decided to follow medicine as a career, and switched to the pre-med cou-se. Liberal Education's loss has been Dean Baldinger's gain, for Joe, the famous card-playing pre-med of Sorin's sub, has been a member of the Aesculapians, the Biology Club, and the Academy of Science. He has also been a member of Father Forrestal’s “Six o’clock Check Club.”
“Syl" joins many ether Sn:ors in listing the Iowa Seahawks vs. Notre Dame game of 1943 as his most memorable sports thrill. He might have mentioned, had he wished, his service in winning int-amural softball, baseball, and basketball teams for St. Ed’s and Sorin.
After g-aduation he intends to enter Long Island University med school, and to teach the people of Queens how to play cards.
Brother’s home town is Albany. New York, and he is a graduate of the Vincentian Institute. Albany. New York. He entered Notre Dame in September 1942, and his major subject has been history.
Twelve
... of October Nineteen Hundred Forty-Five
FREDERICK CHRISTOPHER VICIC
Bachelor of Science in Accounting
“Vickey" is a holdover from the “good old days,” having returned to Notre Dame after eighteen months in the Marine Corps. . -'
A graduate from Spalding Institute in his native Peoria, Illinois, Fred has struggled- through Mr. Price's accounting classes and has still managed to maintain his steady grin. He was a member of the Freshman baseball team and is a staunch supporter of the Veterans’ Club. Along with his diploma, Fred ought to be presented with a gold engraved coffee cup, for it is reliably reported that he spent at least eight hours every day in bull sessions in the cafeteria.
After graduation he plans to work for an accounting firm. Referring to his college career, he says simply: “I’m glad it’s all over.”
BROTHER FRANCISCUS WILLET, C.S.C.
Bachelor of Arts
Born in Evansville, Indiana, Brother entered Notre Dame in February 1942 after graduating from Reitz Memorial High School in his native town. Brother's major subject has been Latin.
Then Peoria’s Vicic peers out with a stare. And Walters at last has combed his hair. Brother Franciscus has his eyes at half mast.
For poor old Ken Zike whose picture is last.
HARRY JOSEPH WALTERS Ph. B. in Bus. Adm.
Riverdale-on-the-Hudson has a native with a Magna Cum Laude average, a flair for writing— exemplified by his excellent columns, the Green Banner and College Parade—a reputation for being a tough marker while acting as secretary to Mr. Smith, and an unruly blond coiffure.
Harry came to Notre Dame from Manhattan College in November 1943, bringing a ready smile, sincere in every aspect. He has been a member of the Commerce Forum for six semesters, and has been active in the Economic Roundtable, being elected vice-president last semester. But most of all, his classmates can remember and thank Harry for his tireless work to make this edition of the Scholastic a success. His quick wit and natural skill in verse made all his associates proud to work with him.
Following “G” Day, Harry will return to New York for two months of sleep, home-cooked food, and no Mass-checks. He will always remember the five hundred students who met the team after the defeat at the hands of Anny in 1944—a typical thought of a typical Notre Dame man. -Fordham Law School’s gain will be Notre Dame’s loss.
KENNETH ZELFORD ZIKE
B. S. in Science (Pre-Med)
Ken brought somt of that Maywood. California, sunshine with him when the Navy ordered him to Notre Dame in July 1944 after fifteen months service as a Pharmacist Mate.
In addition to obtaining a full knowledge of Biology and Zoology during his stay, he saw his first snow. This may sound like some California Chamber of Commerce propaganda but Ken swears it’s true.	-
The smiling graduate of 'Bell High School lists the pep rallies as the feature of Notre Dame life which he will miss most. He has made a name for himself in interhall wrestling.
At present, Ken is awaiting a discharge and intends to head for Southern California’s fine medical school immediately after exchanging his bell-bottomed trousers for a new grey pin stripe suit.
T h i r t e_e n
^ke. Qfueett RatuuA,
By HARRY WALTERS
It might be fitting to fill this Green Banner with Class Predictions. We could predict that twenty years from today Sam Rizak will be “The Tobacco Auctioneer,” and that Jim Donavan will be the world’s greatest nosologist, and Don Howard will be posing for Vitalis advertisements—but we won’t. If we were graduating from Riley High School, such predictions might be in order and would fit very well into the scheme of things.
We could run a Senior Poll and nominate Joe Sylvester as the “Man Most Likely to Become Prefect of Discipline’ ’ and “Chuck” Sartore as “Mr. Morning Check of 1945.” But we won’t.
We could make a class will and leave our collection of shreded shirts and single socks to the laundry manager our 657 un-
"Parting is such sweet sorrow . . .
“Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest,"
A couple of Shakespearean characters quoted the above in Act U Scene m of William's "Romeo and Juliet."
A graduating class echo the phrases, and Harry Ryan, with a characteristic gesture and his bag not too carefully packed, pictorially typifies the spirit
used dining-hall tickets as wallpaper to the D.A.V. But we won’t
We could easily fill a column with our plans for the future. We could mention that the Commerce man plans to work for his father, that the A.B. man plans to work for his father, that the Lawyers plan to work for their fathers, that the Engineers plan to work for their fathers, and that our fathers plan to keep right on working for us. But we won’t.
We could write a classy bit of iambic pentameter and call it the “Class Poem”—
Roses* are Red,
Violets are Blue,
We’ve graduated from College, Now what can we do?—
But we won’t.
We could list our pet peeves while at school; George, the Dining Hall’s only Living Upset Stomach. But we won’t.
We will just try and fill up a page with a bit of our usual line.
Is it True?
The reason for the disappearance of the “sign out” board from Sorin’s Lobby is that “B. O. Plenty, 401” has been signing out for too many midnights without making any morning checks?
As Time Goes By
September 10, 1942—One hundredth freshman class enters Notre Dame. Are issued copy of Student Manual and are duly impressed. See Knute Rockne, All American.	-
September 11, 1942—Student Manual put in desk drawer.
September 12, 1942—First Sunday Social at the “Rock.” Everyone impressed by the polished woodwork. Nothing more.
September 1942-May 1943—A litde bit of study and a lot of fun. Everybody joins E.R.C., V-12, 4-Fs. Student Manual still in desk drawer. E.R.C. departs.
July 1943—First summer semester. Many trade in civilian courderoys for Navy Blue. Things start accelerating.
November 1943—Another Sunday Social at the “Rock.” The polished woodwork still makes the biggest hit. Student Manual still in desk. First Saturday night at the
D.A.V. No polished woodwork but a lot of fun. Knute Rockne still an All American.
May 1944—Clashmore Mike fading fast. Harry Nicodemus takes annual plunge into St. Joe River. D.A.V. still packed.
October 1944—Big pep-rally in the gym. “Beat Army” is the battle-cry.
November 11, 1944—Armistice Day parades. We also drop a “close one” to Army, 59-0.
November 14, 1944—Big rally in the railroad station. Notre Dame spirit flames high.
December 1944—Clashmore Mike still hangs on. Student Manual still missing.
February 1945—Knute Rockne still in Washington Hall. Eighty-eighth consecutive Saturday Night at the D.A.V.
July 1945—Luppi takes over Sorin Hall porch with piano. Student Manual still missing. Harry Nicodemus plunges into St. Joe River again.
September 1945—Clashmore Mike dies.
October 1945—Student Manual found in Dining Hall stew. Harry Nicodemus found in St. Joe River.
October 24, 1945—Knute Rockne vacates Washington Hall. Graduating Seniors take over.
"Hello, Mom?f made it!"
F ourteen
SAME OLD PORCH, SAME OLD SCENE
A battered, yet comfortable architectural monstrosity, whose main attraction is its spacious porch, has been called home for many accelerated semesters by a goodly number of October graduating seniors. Venerable Sorin Hall has long been overshadowed by the newer, more imposing structures on the campus. Alumni and Dillon have their enclosed court. Zahm and Cavanaugh boast of insulated walls and ceilings which smother noise and are great aids to uninterrupted periods of study and card playing. Walsh’s features include closets and all-night lights. Breen-Phillips offers seclusion. But only Sorin has a porch.
The architectural design of old Sorin has been compared at various times to a bam with four silos; to a birthday cake with four candles and to a table at George’s with four beer bottles. Actually, its counterpart was a beautiful French chateau in which Father Edward Sorin, founder of the University spent his youth.
Although it has been maligned by many, it has been long sought after as a residence. When the erection of a hall with private roms for students was proposed in the 1880’s, it was considered a revolutionary idea and aroused criticism even among the members of the faculty. It was built with single rooms “large enough to encourage study and at the same time small enough to discourage visiting,” but a long line of rectors and prefects have learned that no room is small enough to discourage visiting.
Sorin Hall was reserved for juniors and seniors of high scholastic standing and good conduct, and the Sorinites were regarded as a sophisticated group by the other students. “The men of Sorin were insulated and glad of it. When the rest of the University was in bed, Sorin had its own recreation room with billiards and cards, where they could play ‘Old Maid’ and smoke cigarettes, with Sorin’s own orchestra dispensing sweet music and the windows banked with flowers.”
The billiards and the flowers have long since disappeared but the murky walls are decorated with pictures of the Scholastic Staff of ’98 and the graduates of ’01. No one remembers their names but they represent a golden era of Sorin.
(Continued on page 18)
THE NAVY AND NOTRE DAME
The war brought the Navy to Notre Dame. It was- not really unusual, for once before Notre Dame had done her part during a great war.
For most of us the surroundings were new and strange. We had heard of Notre Dame wherever we had been before and it seemed to be one of the hallowed spots of America.
It took a little time to melt into the rich traditional surroundings of the old school, but when we did, we could definitely feel that she was part of us and we were a part of her.
To us, the present Navy grads, it was a different Notre Dame to come back to. We had been here the semester before as civilians and it was hard to get out of the carefree “Joe College” attitude. We helped acquaint the men who were adding a new character to their lives with familiar landmarks of the old campus. Those names, synonomous with that of Notre Dame— the “Rock,” the Dome, the Grotto, Sacred Heart Church, St. Joe Lake, the Log Chapel, the stadium, Cartier Field—became as close to us as did the familiar names back home.
Remember the thrill of seeing the Green and Gold led by Captain Pat Filley cut a path to football fame in 1942? You bet, the spirit of Notre Dame was there all right! It is in all of us now.
As the semesters rolled by, the uniform of the Navy became just another part of Notre Dame. The catchy “hup, 2, 3, 4” of the marines faded away a few semesters after we were here. We were all a little sad at their parting, for many close friendships had been woven, and no telling when we would meet again. All that was left were echoes of “Hi ya, Swabbie” and a return of “Hi ya, Gyrene.”
What with V-12 Balls, dances at the South Bend Servicemen’s Center, Victory dances, and an occasional week-end home, the last few semesters went by so quickly that we did not realize it.
Then came our last semester at Notre Dame as seniors. We were not too glad at having time fly by so quickly, and we started to think of all the old friends we had made here, the good times we had, the crazy things we did, and how we would miss it all. It finally dawned on us that it was not going to be so easy to leave the old stamping grounds as we might have thought it would be a couple of semesters ago.
Navy Men of the October Class
Fifteen
Sam Rizk, Pat Mazza, Harry Walters, Chuck Sartore, and Jim Donovan troop down the steps of Sorin's famed porch.
NOTRE DAME . .
ut of South Bend’s Notre Dame Avenue, just past the north city limits, sprawling over the plain, dipping down to the shores of two clear, blue spring-fed lakes—St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s—is a unique city. In America’s most representative county, it is a city unlike any other in the United States. It is a city apart; yet it is as cosmopolitan as any from east to west. It is Notre Dame, Indiana, known scholastically as the University of Notre Dame.”	.
life. Mealtimes have become a monotony of meal-books, tin trays and tco-frequent servings of stew. Transportation shortages made student trips not only impractical but unpatriotic. The shaded gravel paths of the campus were worn thin by battalions of marching middies. Formal dances and local clubs were just things we heard about, as life in the city was put on an accelerated basis. We accelerated in school, rushing through textbooks in streamlined, sixteen-week semesters. Since vacation had changed from the “three-month” to the “ten-day” variety, j we accelerated during leisure time. The finish of a last exam was followed by a mad dash to the railroad station to catch the first possible train, for a few hours meant a big difference to the lad who was out to paint the home town red.
But life in the city of Notre Dame was not completely altered. There are certain features of its community life that even a world conflict could not erase. The tattered swings on Sorin’s pillared porch are still the favored observation post of campus activity. The students still gather at the Grotto during May to sing hymns of praise to Our Lady. The Sunday 10:10 Mass in Sacred Heart Church is still most popular with the students. Tattered shirts from the laundry, weak milk shakes, spaghetti at Rosy’s, the last packed bus from town on a Saturday
Thus in the dim past—1941, to be exact—did a talented writer begin a feature article in the Dome. December 7, 1941, was still just a date on the calendar and life in the city of Notre Dame was still on a peace-time basis. The 2.551 young men who made up its population lived a typical peace-time existence, just as thousands of their predecessors had done before them. It was an existence of white tablecloths and plates, waiters, pitchers of milk, loads of butter, ard steak every Saturday night. with “seconds.” It was an existence of the Monogram absurdities, the K. of C. Vaudevilles, and visiting radio programs; of state, regional, and local clubs; of Senior Balls, Junior Proms, and Sophomore Cotillions. It was an existence of student trips to New York to the Army game, of inter-hall football tournaments, and of evening bull sessions in the caf. In short, life in the city of Notre Dame was that which is now commonly referred to as “the good old days.”
We who have been citizens of the city duing the war-time years have missed many of these features of this community Sixteen
Sorin Hall—For over fifty years its old halls have heard the voices of seniors who would soon step from its doors for the last time as undergrads.
CW
. . AN AMERICAN CITY
night, the magnolia blossoms, and the young ladies across the Dixie are still an intricate part of Notre Dame life. All these have not changed and probably never will change.
And there is yet another thing which was not altered by wartime conditions in the city. There still exists among her citizens that peculiar feeling of brotherhood known simply as the “Notre Dame spirit.” Never before was that spirit more aptly demonstrated than by the war-time citizens on last November 14th, as they turned out en masse to greet their friends on the football team which had been outscored but not outfought by a talentladen Army squad.
The citizens who will receive their degrees this October cannot be called the “class of ’45” in the true sense. They are a motley group in that some started their residence in the city in September 1941 and returned after serving in the armed forces; others began in September 1942, and because of illness, were forced to drop a semester. Some matriculated in January 1943 and have braved eight straight semesters on the accelerated program. Some are transfer students from various colleges throughout the nation; others have survived the rigors of the V-12 program. But in every other sense they can be designated as a class. They have become a closely knit group, proud to be members of the Notre Dame family.
As they take their leave of the city, these graduating citizens find that life is returning slowly but surely to its peace-time basis. The blue and gold sign—“Navy Reservation Restricted”— is now a less familiar sight on the campus. The midshipmen are packing their duffle bags and no longer will be around to cheer against the Fighting Irish. The residence halls were resplendent with decorations for a recent football game. Many of the old Notre Dame men are returning after years in service.
Many new additions to the city are now in their formative stage. A student union building, one for chemistry, another for fine arts, a new library, and a new gym are high on the list of the University’s post-war plans.
The city of Notre Dame, with its citizens continuing to devote their energy to absorbing the Christian principles of life, will continue to exert a great influence on the Catholic life of
Mike Garry, Lou Barsotti, Harry Ryan and Tom McCaughey talk it over in the caf.
America. The Golden Dome, the hub of the city, will continue to be a symbol of Catholic education. And the thirty-six citizens who make up the smallest graduating class in many years, who take their leave this October, shall carry with them the rich fraternal spirit which has been developed within the city’s limits.
Harry Walters
The Grotto—Hallowed ground enshrined to Our Lady where for decades students have gathered for a few minutes of quiet worship.
Seventeen
SENIOR BALL, OCTOBER 1945
On October 6, 1945, the smallest class in the modem history of Notre Dame, staged one of the school’s most lavish Senior Balls in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend.
The Senior Ball, recently revived by the Spring class of ’45, is a traditional event on the campus, and lived up to the highest expectations of all. It was the first campus-wide affair since the outbreak of the war.
Notre Dame was the motif of decorations. The traditional colors were seen in blue and gold candles which adorned every table. “Notre Dame” was written out in a spacious mirror above the fireplace; and a gold “’45” hung on a blue blanket from the mantel to the floor behind the speaker’s table. Eleven circular tables formed an arc about the room, leaving plenty of space for the dancing which was to follow dinner.
Thus the Rotary Room in South Bend’s Oliver Hotel was converted into the last meeting place for the summer class of ’45, before graduation exercises of October 24th. The lights were dimmed and the candles lit, everyone said Grace, and a sumptuous six-course Turkey diner followed for all. Master of Ceremonies Harry Ryan addressed the group, and proceeded to call upon the graduates for impromptu and informal speeches. This came as a complete surprise to the men, but everything came out well. Soon after the last yam was spun, the Rotary Room was converted from a dining room into a ballroom. In a few minutes the bandstand was set up, Myron Walz and his Orchestra assumed the central position, and the couples glided across the floor in rhythm.	.
Myron Walz mixed the sweet and slow with the jive well enough to satisfy the musical tastes of all present. And, during the procedures, a Miss Smith took informal photographs of the couples and their guests—the only tangible record of the pleasant memories of “the” prom.
The Seniors were a combination of V-12 trainees and civilian students. The civilians looked dapper in tails and tuxedoes. The V-12’s were more comfortable participants in their ever familiar attire—the regulation U. S. Navy blues.
Michael G. Garry, Miss Katherine James, Harry Ryan, Miss Irene Tomsits, Miss Patricia Mercer, Thomas A. McCaughey.
The head table seated Patricia Mercer and Tom McCaughey, Class President; Shirley Eschrich and James Butler, Co-chairman; Katherine James and Michael Gary, Co-chairman; and Irene Tomsits and Harry Ryan, Master of Ceremonies.
Grouped about the main table were sextets, including Ruth Habel and Ernie Rauscher, Bety Horwath and Enrique R. Lulli; Georgia Walker and John McDermott; Patricia Shine and Harry Walters; Katherine Joan Noesen and John Dee; Mary Lou Meunier and Bill O’Neil.
The Navy trainees, gathered in one side, consisted of Peggy Cressy and Ray Kopituk; Eva Quaid and George Sippel; Eva Mae Habig and Ed Faust; Jo Carrol and Ed La Roque; Jee • Sraub and Jack La Bonte; Joyce Lane and Ken Zike; Jean Bresnahan and Harold Wisman; Elsie Koczan and Jim Combs; Esther Rabin and Jack Williamson.
A few of the other graduates and their guests were Beverly Eshenbaugh and Jim Donovan; Jean Cook and Sam Rizk; Rosemary Reuss and Chuck Sartore; Ginny Moore and Joe Kelly; Shiela May Donavan and Bud Malone.
The remaining Notre Dame rooters and dance guests were: Jane Lucas and John Power; Maxine Levenson and Marvin Tom-bre; Patricia Gabler and Dick White; Mary Adele Cobradt and Jim Evans; Billie Kuhn and Bob Rossiter; Eleanor Kyne and George Meltzer; Marie Cushing and Vince Cushing; Margaret Mary Woodhouse and George Weiss; Marge Voorde and Ed Rogers; Sally Fox and Joe Kivlin; Jacqueline Mostart and Art Jernen; Margaret Kenedy and Joe Sommers.
At twelve o’clock Walz and company broke into the Notre Dame Victory March and once again the rafters of ancient Oliver rang with the stirring strains as the many merry makers raised their voices in song. So did end the Senior Ball of October 1945.	•
Ed Faust and Ernie Rauscher
SAME OLD PORCH. SAME OLD SCENE
(Continued from page 15)
Many famous rectors have controlled the destinies of the residents of Sorin. Father Farley, sumamed “the King,” one of Notre Dame’s gridiron immortals, personally coached her intramural football squad. Father Gassensmith, and more recently, Father Forrestal, have supervised the morning check board.
Alumni and Walsh succeeded in stealing Sorin’s reputation as the Gold Coast, but when they were taken over by the Navy during the war, Sorin became the only Junior and Senior hall. In her defense figures might be quoted which show that Sorin’s rooms have the largest cubic space on the campus. The space is all vertical, however, for her ceilings rival the Rockne Memorial basketball court in height.
Anchored down at each side by the coveted tower rooms, Sorin’s other claim to fame is the short distance to the church.
Historic Sorin, with tradition creeping out of every crack in her walls, has been “home sweet home” to us. We are proud to have been Sorin men.
Eighteen
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 85
OCTOBER 19, 1945
No. 2
I. c. EEI LEV GIVE J
S1.€CC,€OG TC N.D.
P. C. Reilly
The University of Notre Dame this week received a gift of one million dollars from Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis. It will become an endowment known as the P. C. Reilly Science Fund and will be used exclusively in the field of chemistry and chemical engineering. In a statement on Monday, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, said that the contribution is the largest single gift ever announced by the University.
Mr. Reilly is president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation in Indianapolis and has been a member of Notre Dame’s Board of Lay Trustees since 1934.
The details of the endowment are as follows:
The endowment will be used to supply one annual fellowship of $1,000 to the outstanding lay member of the graduating class in chemistry or chemical engineering, four annual graduate nonteaching fellowships in chemistry or chemical engineering of $1,000 each for graduates of Notre Dame or other schools, and $5,000 annually as an honorarium to an outstanding chemist or chemical engineer for a one-semester series of lectures at the University.
At the end of eight years the number of annual graduate non-teaching fellowships shall be increased as the income from the fund increases. In the 15th year of the fund, the income from the accumulated capital fund shall be divided equally, half to be used for fellowships and lectures and half to be added to the capital fund.
When the fund reaches $5,000,000 the University shall have fuy use of the income without qualifications except that it be used in the field of chemistry and other sciences.
Mr. Reilly has long been a pioneer in the development of coal tar products. He has sought to increase the prestige of America in the field of science, particularly chemical engineering. It is Mr.
(Continued on page 35)
Nineteen
Journalism Head Dies of Heart Attack
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism at the University of Notre Dame since shortly after its founding in 1912, died of a heart attack at
his home
in
South Bend on Monday morning, Oct. 15. Dr. Cooney had been fulfilling his duties on the campus as late as the previous
Dr. John M. Cooney Saturday.
The veteran educator joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1901, but later served as president of Columbia College, Owensboro, Ky., from 1906 to 1911. Then he returned to Notre Dame and remained until his death. In 1934, because of “meritorious service to the university,” Dr. Cooney was given the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award.
Dr. Cooney, who celebrated his silver anniversary as head of the department in 1938, took over the position when the school of journalism was merely a small class, and built it into the distinct department that it is today. A number of widely read writers in the nation received their first direction in journalism from Dr. Cooney, one of the most prominent being Paul Mallon, noted Washington columnist.
Always interested in campus activities, Dr. Cooney was one of the first presidents of the Lay Faculty club at the University. He was also associated with the Round Table and with the Knights of Columbus.
Twelve N.D. Men Enter
Knights of Columbus
On September 27 the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus received twelve men into the order as the First Degree rites were carried out in the South Bend council chambers.
Seven states and two foreign countries are represented in the First Degree class.' The Notre Dame men entering the Knights of Columbus were:
Richard L. Ahearn of New Orleans, La.; Julian A- Mahany of Covington,. Ky.; the Rev. Frederick C. Goddard, M. M., of Maryknoll, N. Y.; Leonard J. Aull of Muscatine, la.; George F. Meltzer of Chicago, Ill.; Francis J. Reyes of La Criba, Honduras; Matthew J. Siedlecki of Camden, N. J.; Jerome W. Wayno of Detroit, Mich.; George A. Kennard of Ann Arbor, Mich.; George V. La Buda of Berwyn, Ill.; Ernest J. McCullough
of Calgary, Alberta; and George M. Tully of Pelham, N. Y.
Last Sunday, October 14, four men of the Notre Dame Council were honored by the reception of the Fourth Degree. They were the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Joseph Doran, Frank Coleman and Philip Martin.
For the initiation of new members to be held on November 25, the Knights have received applications from forty Notre Dame men, and the list is still growing. The First Degree will be given to these men on November 15, the Second and Third Degrees on November 25.
The activities of the Knights of Columbus on the Notre Dame campus are expecting to enter a definite boom during the winter semester when the club rooms in Walsh Hall basement are returned to the Council. The Council chambers in Walsh have been occupied for the past two years by the navy offices for the Midshipman school and other branches of the training station.
The Knights will occupy the chambers as soon as proper repairs are made, and a gala opening-night program is being considered. The council expects to be completely installed in the chambers about the first of December.
Statement by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, c.s.c.. president of the University of Notre Dame, in the death of Professor John M. Cooney
Notre Dame mourns the passing of one of the most devoted members of her faculty, as the voice of a beloved Kentucky gentleman is stilled.
By every proper criterion. Doctor John M. Cooney was a truly great teacher. Generations of Notre Dame students remember him with affection and esteem for his mastery of the liberal arts and for his wise understanding of the perplexities of young men preparing themselves for a journalistic career. Both in the method and substance of his teaching. he was a benign influence for more than thirty-five years. But his influence has long since gone far beyond the boundaries of the campus, and it will survive as long as "Doctor Cooney's boys," as they are known, apply to their newspaper and magazine work the professional techniques they learned from him and also the moral principles, without which, he insisted, professional techniques are worthless.
This in itself is a memorial. But Doctor Cooney's greatest contribution to his "boys," his community, and the school he served so long and well, is the example he gave of a Christian life marked by an unfailing charity to his fellowman.
Father Sheehan Becomes Biology Deparment Head
The Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., has returned to the University to become the head of the Biology Department. He succeeds Dr. Theodor K. Just in the position.
Father Sheehan received his Bachelor
Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C.
of Science degree in Biology at Notre Dame in 1921, a Bachelor of Science degree in Medicine at the St. Louis School of Medicine in 1923, and completed his graduate courses at Catholic University, Oregon University and Washington University. He has spent most of his career teaching in the Department of Biology and the School of Nursing at the University of Portland in Oregon.
The retiring head of the department, who came to Notre Dame in 1929 from the University of Vienna, has been named the first incumbent of the Julius A. Nieuwland professorship in botany. Dr. Just will continue to edit the American Midland Naturalist, the botanic publication of Notre Dame.
Former Instructor Killed
Mr. Gottlieb 0. Pfeifer, a former instructor at Notre Dame, was killed on Septmber 30 in an auto accident near Hillsboro, North Dakota. At the time he was an industrial arts instructor at Grand Forks Central High School, Grand Forks, North Dakota. Mrs. Pfeifer, and their two children, Charles, 4, and Jean. 3, received slight injuries.
Twenty
Eighty-one Receive Degrees Next Week
Fr. George I. Smith Is Commencement Speaker
A curtailed Commencement Day program will be concluded with the awarding of degrees to 81 graduates at a convocation in Washington Hall at eight o’clock Wednesday evening, October 24.
The day’s activities will begin at eight o’clock in the morning with the celebration of Mass by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. A farewell visit will be conducted by Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., at 8:30 by a Communion breakfast at nine. At four o’clock a reception for the graduates and their families will be held in the Rockne Lounge.
“A Code of Life” will be the subject of the address to be delivered by Rev. George I. Smith, O.P., S.T.L., to the graduates at the convocation. Father Smith’s address will deal with the code of living the graduates must set up for themselves now that the closely supervised academic activities of their undergraduate days are ended. That code must be based on the cardinal vii-tues, he will point out, since they will find that no matter which profession they enter they will be subject to business and professional ethics based on the cardinal virtues.
The 81 graduates who will receive degrees next Wednesday will comprise the smallest in many years. The College of Arts and Letters will award 18 degrees, while 29 will be conferred by the College of Science, nine by the College of Engineering, three by the Law School, six by the College of Commerce, and 16 by the Graduate School.
Approximately one-fifth of the degrees, 16, will be awarded with honors, six by the College of Arts and Letters, of which two will be Magna, Cum Laude and four Cum Laude; three Cum Laude by the College of Engineering; two Cum Laude by the Law School; four- Magna Cum Laude and two Cum Laude by the College of Commerce; and one Magna Cum Laude and two Cum Laude by the College of Science.
One priest, five Brothers, and two Sisters will receive degrees from the College of Arts and Letters, and one Brother will be awarded a degree by the College of Science.
The College of Engineering will confer the following Bachelor of Science Degrees: one in Mechanical Engineering, five in Metallurgy, two in Aeronautical
A TRAGEDY ON THE CAMPUS
By Jack Sullivan
Those possessors of morbid curiosity will, in all probability, be disappointed when they discover the true subject of this account, but we trust that their disappointment will change to interest after they read it. Tragedy, in this sense, is not to be interpreted literally, but theatrically.
The National Classic Theatre of New York, devoted specifically to the service of universities and the geenral literati of the nation, has been contacted by Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., Chairman of the Concert and Lecture Series at Notre Dame, and will present Shake-peare’s “Romeo and Juliet” in Washington hall on Tuesday, November 13, at 8:00 p.m.
The play is directed by the founder of the National Classic Theatre, the nationally known producer and director, Clare Tree Major.
Mrs. Major comes from a family whose name has long been distinguished in the English theatre. Ellen Tree, her greataunt, was the first English actress to tour this country from coast to coast, and Miss Tree’s famous “Juliet” provoked much discussion as how Shakespeare should be played.
Clare Tree Major feels that Shakespeare should be played with complete simplicity and naturalness. “People of his day were no different from people of today,” she believes. “They simply wore
Engineering, and one in Chemical Engineering. Fourteen Bachelor of Arts, two Bachelor of Music, and two Bachelor of of Science in Physical Education Degrees will be awarded by the College of Arts and Letters. Five Bachelor of Science degrees in Commerce and one in Foreign Commerce will be conferred by the College of Commerce. Candidates for degrees in the Graduate School include one for Doctor of Philosophy, ten for Master of Arts, two for Master of Science, and three for Master of Science in Education. The College of Science will award 29 Bachelor- of Science degrees.
The convocation will begin with a processional followed by the singing of the National Anthem. Father Smith will deliver his address after the degrees are conferred, and the convocation will close with a recessional.
different clothes.” The objective of the National Classic Theatre is to present classic drama as a living, vital, entrancing experience in the cultural lines of the people.
Either in the quest of knowledge or because of a compelling force, students have read and studied Shakespeare’s plays but these works are often forgotten. In a production, however, the persons conceimed make their direct appeal to our sympathies and passions, and we mentally become one of them in their adventures.
Therefore it would indeed be an experience to witness the modernized presentation of the great “Romeo and Juliet,” and see in action the renowned characters who .have found their way to all parts of the world.
In presenting “Romeo and Juliet,” Mrs. Major’s object has been “to show the young people of the play as concerned with the same thoughts, feelings and problems that face their fellows of today.” Actually the people of 1600 and 1945 are not too different, and when Shakespeare’s acting is brought up to date, the true greatness of this.play may be observed and enjoyed.
The very spirit of youth radiates from “Romeo and Juliet,” which demands simplicity of interpretation. It is this quality which is stressed in the National Classic Theatre production of this tragedy.
GRADUATION ISSUE
The SCHOLASTIC wishes to single out the members of the October graduation class who have worked toward the editorial make-up of this .edition.
Chief laurels go to Harry Walters, familiar to SCHOLASTIC readers as the author of the Green Banner column. Harry shouldered the full job of compiling, writing, and editing the portion of this magazine assigned to the graduating class. Assisting him were Enrique Lulli. Ernie Rauscher and Ray Kopituk.
To Harry Walters and his assistants. the SCHOLASTIC says: Thank you for a job well done. -
The Editor.
Twenty One
"Beat Illini" Best Said by Zahm and Cav.
By James F. McCarthy
“On this spot Devore’s Irish raiders massacred the Illinois Indians September 29th, 1945—so read a sign in the St. Edward’s hall display two weeks ago, as a bit of prewar color returned to Notre Dame. P. A. systems blared and giant illuminated figures graced numerous buildings, as residence halls competed in their displays ■with the gridiron exhibition to make the weekend of the Illinois game one long to be remembered.
Reigning as the central theme of the displays, the Illinois Indian was depicted cleverly in one form or another by hard-working students wrho labored against time, wind, and rain to get all in readiness for the gala occasion. And on Friday night after the pep-rally crowds, undeterred by a misty rain, passed from hall to hall viewing the surprising results.
Originality Wins
A committee made up of Father Joseph A. Kehoe, Father Theodore Hes-burg, and Mr. McAuliffe acted as judges and awarded top honors to Zahm and Cavanaugh halls.
Under the direction of Rodger White, the men from Zahm constructed a display featuring Clashmore Mike shooting an arrow at a giant fortyfoot Indian. Made of wood and cardboard, Zahm’s display was outlined by a series of multi-colored lights which attracted the attention necessary to win the freshmen hall extra permissions. Also among those who deserve credit for Zahm’s display, were Reginald Orsolini, who drew the original plans, Robert Montrose, and John Gill.
A grief stricken Indian squaw, carrying Illinois’ head coach Ray Eliot as her papoose, wept over eleven graves of the Illini as part of Cavanaugh’s project. Co-chairmen of decorations, Tom Frushaur and Tom Murry, working with Edward Snyder, John Swain, Elmer Car-vallo and James Ferstel, had a real job on their hands in building the thirtyfoot football player which completed Cavanangh’s prize-winning display.
The Wind Came	■
“The best tunes of all came from old Sorin hall” as the Sorinites took advantage of a prominent position on the quadrangle to attract attention of students and visitors. John “Dipper” Evans, who took charge of festivities for the politicians, worked with Jack Ley on the Public Address system, over which was broadcast records of the Notre Dame band. The large football figure seemed to be a part of all hall decorations, and Sorin was no exception, for under the direction of John O’Neil, self-labelled construction engineer, the Sorinites also erected a pigsty monstrosity. The figure towering over Sorin porch, was painted by Barney Slater and Mrs. Kormendi. Above the figure’s head was a large wheel, on which revolved the bloody scalps of the Illini. Unfortunately, however, the wind Friday night blew down this part of the display.
All was not smooth sailing for the “Politicians.” In the words of “Dipper” Evans, “the boys had their troubles.” The “Dipper” also thought it was surprising how many sisters of football players turned up to claim pictures of the first team which were used as part
of the display. But, with the cooperation of Father Forrestal and many hall residents, the men from Sorin were determined not to be outdone.
A skillfully painted tepee was the most prominent features of St. Edward’s display. Made from old sheets, the tepee had a very natural look about it; but probably no Indian chieftain ever had such a decorative abode. Over the two archways of the hall, students’ ideas of the relative merits of the two teams were portrayed. A long streamlined roadster, built with revolving wheels so as to give the appearance of motion, carried the N.D. team to victory; while an Indian from Illinois, mounted on the “old grey mare” trudged on in pursuit. Among the men in the hall who helped make the display a success were Brendan O’Grady, John Gasperella, Bill (Smoky) Stoner, and Bill Flynn deserve special credit.
Much In Little
Coming up with perhaps the most novel idea was Walsh hall. Here the before-and-after idea was developed, as an Indian princess, was shown first with an Indian brave and then with a Notre Dame student. Under the direction of Rudolph Lopez, Walsh’s display was crowned with a large illuminated N.D. monogram.
The Navy also showed its ingenuity in the decorations program. Taking time out from their preparations for the Regimental ball, the sailors came up with two startling displays. In front of Dillon hall there was a green clad football player kicking an Indian over the goal posts, while at Alumni, with the aid of an actual airship, the Irish soared over the Illini.
Graves in Cavanaugh's back yard. .. A massacre on the St. Ed's lawn... Mike kills an Indian in front of Zahm
Twenty two
Irish Make First Trip East; Will Oppose The Panthers of Clark Shaughnessy in Pittsburgh
By Louis A. Hafner
The power-laden green and gold football team will rumble into Pitt stadium tomorrow afternoon in an effort to crash the “T” party given by the Panthers of Clark Shaughnessy, one of the foremost coaches of the “T” formation. The Irish will be out to extend their winning streak to four straight wins while the Panthers will be out to get back into the win column after last week’s defeat at the hands of Michigan State. State’s win was somewhat of an upset, and it is quite certain that the boys from the “Smoky City” will turn the heat on their next opponent, meaning, of course, Notre Dame. In the 13 game series with Pittsburgh the Irish have come out on top seven times, lost five and tied one.
At pre-game time, the Irish are picked to be victorious. Pittsburgh lost to Illinois by a score of 23-7, while the boys of Coach Devore downed the latter team by 7-0. But in this Saturday’s game seasonal records are forgotten, for it is a battle of brain and muscle, not of newspaper clippings.
In the first three games thus far, the fighting—and I do mean fighting—Irish have collected 81 points. The fame has been spread all over the first three backfields. With such men as Capt. Frank Dancewicz, Phil Colella, Terry Brennan, Frank Ruggiero, Elmer Angsman, Zip Zehler, Joe Gasparella, and Pep Panelli, the ’45 football squad will cause many worries for the opposing coaches. Their efforts will result in many more tallies for Notre Dame. One. of the main reasons for the success of the backfield is the able tutelage of Joe Sheeketski, newly acquired backfield mentor.
Notre Dame will enter the contest with full strength in the forward wall. Up until tomorrow it has shattered every offense and defense thrown against it. John Mastrangelo and Fred Rovai have been doing a “swell” job in the guard slots. Up in the front trenches at the tackle positions still remain the original starters, Pete Berezney and Ed Miesz-kowski. Sharing the starting berth with the latter is Big Bill Fischer, who has displayed a wonderful brand of defensive ball playing. At the beginning of the season the chief worry of Coach Devore was the relative strength of the end and
pivot positions. After three contests, Bob Skoglund, returning wingman, and Dick Cronin, big 210 pound end, have turned in satisfactory performances to relieve Devore of future uncertainty. Also pleasing to the coaches is the ability of Bill Walsh to back up the line.
Perhaps the best player on the team is Capt. Frank Dancewicz, an outstanding and exemplary captain, who has been on the pitching end of three touchdowns. He has displayed a remarkable ability in palming the oval to the toters and has sacrificed the forward passing, for which he is so noted, in favor of the “terra firma” tactics. Boley has also been the outstanding defensive player, bringing down three touchdown-bound offenders from behind. Frank will be flinging the old pigskin against the lads of Shaughnessy with his usual accuracy.
This Saturday the Pittsburgh mentor will be seeking his first victory over a Notre Dame team since his arrival at Pittsburgh two years ago. Even though he does not have any Marshall Goldbergs or Tony Matisis this season, the Panthers pack plenty of power and are not a team to be underestimated.
Tomorrow the eyes of the nation will be focused upon the Panthers who are just aching to knock off ^ie Irish, but all we have to say is “Watch out, Panthers, or you will get your tails shaved off!”
Pep tally staged the weekend of the Illinois game typifies the spirit of the N. D. student body backing the team
Students Predict Score of Tomorrow's Pitt Game
Tomorrow the unbeaten eleven of Notre Dame will pay their respects to Clark O’Shaughnessy’s Panthers in the Smoky City. The students are confident that Notre Dame will trounce Pittsburgh. Here are their comments on the game. . . .
40 to 0
Senior Jim Luken: “In view of the fact that Illinois beat Pittsburgh 23 to 7, Notre Dame will take Pitt 40 to 0.”
21 to 7
Junior Stan Lehrer, R.O.T.C.: “I can’t see how the coalminers could possibly threaten Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish will hit pay dirt with a 21 to 7 tally.”
50 to 0
Sophomore Jim McClintock: “With Boley pitching, Notre Dame will overwhelm them 50 to 0. The first squad will again retire to the bench early in the game.”
58 to 0
Sophomore Jim Patterson: “After that colossal defeat last year of 58 to 0, Pitt will be looking for revenge. They will probably try to cause trouble by filling the air with passes, but you can’t sell this Notre Dame team short. I say Dancewicz and Company will come home with a 27 to 6 win.”
37 to 0
Sophomore Leon Traney: “We will surely win an easy victory, 37 to 0.”
34 to 7
Freshman Don Beckert: “Whether there be an aerial attack led by our great Irish quarterback O’Dancewicz, or a ground offensive led by our backs, the Panthers will crumble before this powerful Irish team. . . . When the final whistle blows Notre Dame will go off the field with a 34 to 7 score.”
35 to 0
Freshman Leonard Aull: “I believe Notre Dame is too powerful for the Smoky City oldsters, and the end of the game will find Notre Dame on the long end of a 35 to 0 contest.”
42 to 7
John Celusta, civilian freshman: “The Panthers will not be as easy as the Indians were last week, but I don’t think that the game will be close in any sense of the word. I’ll take the Irish by 42-7, hoping that Krivik will make the extra points good.”
Twenty three
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish Enter Fourth Week of Season With Three Wins Marked Up
Four weeks ago the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame were ready to open their 57th season of football. The eyes of the nation were on the Irish opener not because great things were expected from N.D. teams, but because the Irish were entering the season without the usual pre-season ballyhoo of great things in store for their team. The Irish luck was supposed to have run out.
Tomorrow the men of Hughie Devore meet the Panthers of Clark Shaughnessy in Pittsburgh. The season is well under way and the record of Notre Dame games played this fall is a very definite indication that the term “fighting” is the chief factor in the success of the “Fighting Irish” and not the “luck” that so many like to tag onto the team name.
Scholastic Sports Writer Tom Schilder submits the following resume of the 1945 Notre Dame season as it enters its fourth week:
Notre Dame 7, Illinois 0
In the opening game Notre Dame, supposedly the underdog, beat the University of Illinois’ highly rated team by a score of 7-0.
The N.D. team, a squad of unknown ability under a new coach, lived up to its Fighting Irish label, staging two epic goal-line stands in the closing period before a crowd of 45,000 tense football fans. ■
On the first play of the game, Phil Colella, left halfback, led by expert blockers, made a wonderful reverse-field run around left end, and streaked 76 yards for the one and only touchdown of the game. Reserve fullback Stan Kriv-ik drop kicked the extra point.
After that, the bruising, alert Irish team simply wore down the Illini attack, but not without three hard pushed Illini drives that ended up within the N.D. ten yard line. It was during these tense periods that the youthful, stalwart Irish line showed its defensive power.
Sparked by Captain Frank Dancewicz, veteran quarterback and expert forward passer, who played an excellent offensive and defensive game, the Irish team showed its ability as another champion team that will be hard to beat.
N. D. 40, Georgia Tech 7
On Saturday, Oct. 6, the rugged Fighting Irish laced the Georgia Tech Engineers by a score of 40-7.
Georgia Tech’s stripling line bent and then broke under the vicious blocking and tackling of Notre Dame before a ca
pacity crowd of 35,000. The score shows that N.D. completely outplayed Tech; the number of first downs and the yardage gained by rushing- and passing- confirm it.
Ignited by the slingshot heaves of George Mathews and Freshman Jack Peek, Tech scored in the first eight minutes of the game when quarterback Holtsinger made a fake reverse around right end and scored Tech’s only touchdown. Kyker booted the extra point for Tech.
Notre Dame’s 14-karat backfield, with returned war veteran, Phil Colella, Captain Frank Dancewicz, and Terry Brennan in the driver’s seat, turned on the power after Tech’s brief splurge.
Dancewicz stood on the 40 and hurled to Colella on the five, who scooted over for the first Irish score, and Krivik booted the extra point. In the second period, Elmer Angsman, who was on the injury list all week, climaxed a touchdown drive that started on the Irish 46, and Stan Krivik drop-kicked the extra point. Just before half-time period, Bill Zehler snatched a beautiful 48 yard pass from Joe Gasperella, for the third touchdown. Krivik again made the extra point, which left the score 21-7 at the half.
In the third period, Terry Brennan snatched a Tech pass on the Irish 12, and
' In the capacity-filled Notre Dame stadium last Saturday, Fullback Harold C. Swanson, jr., of Dartmouth turns sharply to escape the approach of Notre Dame's fullback, John R. (Pep) Panelli, moving in for the tackle. “Irish" players in the middle of the picture are James R. Jurzynske and Alphonse Stanczyak.
returned it to the Tech 37 before he was dropped. Dancewicz, Ruggerio, Angsman, and Colella carried the ball to the three; Angsman plowed through center for another touchdown. Krivik drop-kicked the extra point again to make the score 27-7. In the fourth quarter the ball was on the Tech 18, when John Agnone, reserve back, raced around right end to score the fifth T.D. of the game. Krivik failed to make the extra tally, leaving the score 34-7. When the ball was on the Tech six later on in the game, Emil Slovak, sub back, scooted around right end, for the last touchdown of the game. Krivik again missed the extra point, leaving the final score 40-7.
This was indeed a great day for the Irish who showed plenty of spirit when they pulled out from behind, and made a decisive victory over the Rambling Wrecks for the second straight win of the season.
Notre Dame 34, Dartmouth 0
Last week in the Notre Dame game Hughie Devore sent in every one of the 53 men suited up for the Dartmouth game. The Indians from the East were sent home with a humiliating 34-0 defeat, rendered mostly by the second, third and fourth string Irish. The subs and the “hamburgers” had their day as the first team sat on the bench for three quarters of the game and watched the proceedings.
Twenty four
Philip J. Colella leaps up to gather in c Halfback Al Zimmerman drops out of the drop into waiting arms.
47-yard pass from Frank Dancewicz as Illini picture and Bill Butkovich watches the ball
On the first scrimmage play of the game “Boley” Dancewicz faded back and lobbed a beautiful pass from the Irish 31 to the Dartmouth 18 where Phil Colella, who had deftly outflanked the Big Green secondary, gathered in the ball and romped the rest of the .way unmolested for the first touchdown. Stan Krivik drop-kicked the point, and the issue was settled for the day. Later in the first quarter, Dancewicz completed his second of four passes, this one to End Bob Skoglund who scored on the play. A low pass from center spoiled Krivik’s chances for a kick, and he was downed.
In the second quarter fast Bill Zehler raced around his right end from the Dartmouth 24 to chalk up the third T.D. Krivik made another extra point. In the third quarter, Fullback Stan Krivik plowed through center to hero’s territory
from the Dartmouth 3, and then added another point with a dropkick, making the score 27-0.
In the last quarter, with two minutes to go, Jim Yonto, fullback, plowed over from the two-yard line after a long Irish drive sparked by halfback Johnnie Ag-none. Bob Skoglund’s place kick was blocked, but he grabbed the ball and ran it around left end for the point.
Much to the joy of the Notre Dame bench and the chagrin of the future opponents’ scouts, Hughie Devore sent in subs freely throughout the game. Showing much spirit, drive and speed were the substitute halfbacks, Zehler, Agnone and Emil Slovak.
In easing through their third straight win the Irish brought their total of points to 81, as against 7 for opponents.
Irish Basketeers
Begin Practicing
Practice for the 194-5-46 basketball season was inaugurated in the fieldhouse on Oct. 3 with 104 candidates reporting for the opening session. Daily two and three drills and a weeding out process have been continuing since, until now the squad has been cut to 40 members.
The Notre Dame eagers of this season are in the very experienced and adept hands of veteran coach and former player, Elmer Ripley, who in his first season here has as a target the enviable record of 1-5 wins out of 20 starts hung up by last season’s court squad directed by Clem Crowe, now at Iowa University. But Ripley comes to Notre Dame with a wealth of coaching experience, having been basketball mentor at both Yale and Columbia, of the highly competitive Ivyleague, and having enjoyed later success at Georgetown University. His coaching at the lattei* school reached its climax when his 1942-43 Hoyas went to the finals of the N.C.A.A. tournament at Madison Square Garden but bowed to Wyoming’s Cowboys. Before becoming a coach, he teamed with Nat Holman, Joe Lapchick, “Dutch” Dehnert, and Pete Barry to form the widely traveled and often discussed Original Celtics.
It is still too early to speculate on what the starting line-up will be this season, for Ripley has at his disposal the most versatile and distributed talent in Irish court history if not in the nation. As a superb playmaker and leader, smooth ball handler, and set shot artist there is the gingery Captain Bill Hassett, All-American guard of last year. Returning from last year’s starting five are the forwards, John “Scooter” Dee and George Ratterman, both of the fast breaking, high point-getter type. Ratterman, because of football affiliations, has been unable to attend practice. Outstanding defensively and as a team player is Frank Gilhooley who returns to school in November, and returning with him will be Joe Sobek and Leo Klier, both of whom were stars on the Notre Dame basketball team of two years ago. Joe Sobek is the older brother* of Andy Sobek, a reserve last year. Klier, recently honorably discharged from the Navy after serving as an ensign for more than a year, won All-American basketball honors before entering the service.
Yet, every coach has his problem, and Ripley’s is the center position vacated by the transfer to Annapolis of the brilliant East Chicago freshman, Vince Boryla. If Ripley cannot choose from his present squad a suitable pivot man, he (Continued on page 28)
Twenty five
Seven Games Remain on 1945 Schedule
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
With three foes safely tucked away in the defeated column, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame enter mammoth Pitt Stadium tomorrow afternoon to tangle with the Panthers of the University of Pittsburgh. Ten years ago Notre Dame ended a three-year Pitt winning streak with a 9 to 6 victory. But that was back in the days when the Pitt Panther was one of the most feared objects on the nation’s gridirons. Today the Panther is making a comeback under Clark Shaughnessy, but it is a slow process. The master of the “T” has had nothing but game youngsters to work with, so the victories have been few and far between for the Smoky City school.
Iowa—October 27
The Hawkeyes of the University of Iowa have a distinction that few football teams can claim; they have never been beaten by a Notre Dame football team. On Oct. 27, acting coach Clem Crowe, an N.D. man himself, will lead his 1945 Hawkeyes into Notre Dame Stadium to see if that record can be maintained. However, there seems little hope in view of the Iowa material and their record to date. After starting the season with a 14-13 win over a good Bergstrom Field, Texas, eleven, the Hawkeyes -were trounced by Ohio State and Purdue on successive week-ends, 42-0 and 40-0, respectively. But each week the Iowa team seems to pick up new material from discharged men returning to school. One of these boys is the leader of the current Hawkeye squad. He is Jerry Niles, 26-year-old quarterback from East Moline, Ill. Jerry was a regular center on Iowa’s 1938 team. He spent 3% years in the Navy air corps as a dive bomber pilot. He was shifted to quarterback by Crowe to put an experienced man in the backfield. Niles weighs 190. He has wasted no time in establishing himself as a deadly passer.
Navy—November 3
Little space is needed to tell anyone about the 1945 Army and Navy football teams. Just think of any good football player in the country and say that he is now playing for Army and Navy and you’ll probably be correct. Commander Hagberg has a great team at Annapolis this fall. His backfield lineup sounds like Grantland Rice’s 1944 All-American. Bob Kelly, Notre Dame, “Hunchy” Hoernschemeyer, Indiana, Tony Minisi, Penn, George Sundheim, Indiana, and, of course, Scott and Jenkins from Navy. The Navy line is big and rough, though
Twenty six
not as experienced as the backfield. In games this fall, however, it has proved itself by holding Villanova, Duke, and Penn State scoreless. Jim Carrington is a 205 pound guard and John Coppedge hits 215 at tackle. Surprisingly enough, though, Navy does not have too many heavyweights in the line; that is, the boys who are 200 or more. But their average hovers close to that number and that is big enough for anyone.
Anny—November 10
Army? Well, even grandma and little Junior have heard about the great Felix “Doc” Blanchard and Glenn Davis, truly a pair of All-American backs. Army has acquired Tom McWilliams, ex-Mississip-pi State star, who has been reeling off long touchdown runs all season. Quarterback Arnold Tucker- runs the team’s “T” formation. Herschel Fuson, a mere 220 pounder, is a rugged blocking back. Reserves? There is no end to Army’s reserve strength. Army has a dream line. From end to end it looks something like this for size: left end Dick Pitzer, 195, left tackle DeWitt Coulter, 220, left guard Art Gerometta, 190, center Jim Enos, 190, right guard Captain John Green, 190, right tackle Al Nemetz, 188, and right end Henry Foldberg, 195. Behind this line is plenty of reserve power, too.
Now may one statement be made in conclusion to these glowing reports about Army and Navy? Granted, those teams are tops. However, Notre Dame is never beaten before a game and seldom after a game. Army and Navy are not invincible —not quite. Notre Dame can beat them. The Irish should outweigh both Army and Navy lines. Their reserves have proven themselves, too. Besides, a team that won’t be beaten, can’t be beaten.
Northwestern—November 17
This year’s Notre Dame-Northwestern game, in Evanston, will be the 25th between the two schools—one of the oldest rivalries in the midwest. Lynn Waldorf has a young, inexperienced squad at Evanston but so far this fall he has done remarkably well with them. After defeating Iowa State 18 to 6, the Wildcats tied Indiana 7 to 7 and lost to Michigan 20 to 7. The Wildcats have shown a very good defense to all opponents, and as soon as that offense begins to click on a four quarter basis, the Cats will be tough. Dick Connors, speedy little right halfback, has broken away for several long T.D. runs this year and bears watching. He is one of a small number of let
termen that N.U. had on hand when the season opened. Conners prepped at Mt. Carmel in Chicago. Bruce Bairstow is another small but speedy back. Bairstow is also a bear on defense. Bill Travers has been converted from guard to fullback and is playing heads-up ball at that position. Bill says that his greatest sports thrill was playing against Notre Dame last year. In the line, Waldorf beams when the name of Westi Hansen is mentioned. Hansen lettered at Yale last fall and has been a bulwark in the Cat forward wall this year. At end Northwestern has a real star—Max Morris. He was named N.U.’s most valuable player last year. Besides starring on the gridiron, Morris is the ace of the N.U.
Tulane—November 24
All tickets have been sold—about 80,-000—for the Irish invasion of New Orleans where they will meet Tulane. Claude Simons, Jr., is the Tulane grid mentor- and “Little Monk” is not one to disappoint fans. Tulane has started slowly this year, but, come Nov. 24, the Green Wave should be rolling.
Ten lettermen greeted Simons at the outset of drills. Tackle Leroy Schneider, a mere 230 pounds, and guard Gaston Bourgeois, 205, head the list of line candidates. Elliott Igleheart, a 200 pound veteran guard, is Bourgeois’ running mate and needs no introduction. The Bourgeois-Iglehart combination is one of the best guard pairs in the Southeastern Conference. Tulane’s backfield lacks experience though Marvin McCain, sophomore letterman, and letterman fullback Bill Reynolds, have some experience.
Great Lakes—December 1
The days of pros and All-Americans at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station is over. Head Coach Lt. Paul Brown has built his team around a bunch of inexperienced men who to date have not won a game though they did tie Wisconsin, 0 to 0. Marion Motley, giant negro fullback from Nevada, has been outstanding for the Sailors, both on offense and defense. Notre Dame has contributed generously to the Great Lakes roster with George Terlep, Bill O’Connor, and Marty Wendell. Also in the backfield is a flashy ex-Marquette star, Frank Aschenbren-ner. The Lakes eleven has some hefty tackles but for the most part, lacks weight and experience in the line. Great Lakes has always been tough for the Irish—particularly that December day in 1943 when the undefeated Irish were upset 19 to 14. But why bring that up?
Splinters from the Press Box
By PHIL CORBOY
When Notre Dame was deprived of the services of Frank Szymanski and Marty Wendell just prior to the Illinois game, the sports writers of the country hastily jumped the gun and predicted a not-too-favorable football season for the Fighting Irish. Now the same scribes have condescended to admit that perhaps the team from Notre Dame isn’t quite as weak as they had anticipated. Such demonstratives as mediocre, young, inexperienced, and lacking replacements, have been supplanted with great passing attack, lots of reserves, and powerful forward wall. Although the men of the press acknowledge the field generalship and passing ability of Frank Dancewicz, they failed to perceive the defensive talents of “Blond Boley,” which were so evident in the Illinois game.
They were even rash enough to consider 17-year-old Bill Walsh incapable of holding his own against more experienced opponents. This, of course, was quoted before the big Jersey boy had been given the opportunity to throw his 200 pounds into the Illinois, Georgia Tech, and Dartmouth offensives. The backfield was supposed to be woefully deficient in both reserves and fleet, shifty regulars. This, too, was admitted, sight unseen, previous to the entrance of Colella, Slovak, Zehler, and Agnone into intercollegiate competition. Defensive power was considered to have disappeared with the departure of Wendell and Szymanski, but that was the opinion shortly before the Irish line staved off five Illinois threats deep in Irish territory—once on the four yard marker.
The 1945 version of the Fighting Irish was obviously unconcerned with these disparaging predictions—at least in regard to the aforementioned opponents. In these first three games they have piled up a total of 40 first downs, have dashed off 814 yards on the ground, and have accumulated 285 yards through the air. If such power is evidenced against the Pittsburgh and Iowa elevens, perhaps the pressmen won’t be too eager to concede either Army or Navy the easily accomplished victories that have been expected thus far.
.	N.D. First in Sports Poll
It has always been assumed that Notre
Dame football teams have had one of the largest pseudo-alumni followings in the country. Esquire, national magazine for men, recently strengthened this contention in its monthly sports poll when it picked the University of Notre Dame as the most outstanding school participating in intercollegiate football. The editors quizzed servicemen, sports experts, and fans in their search for the most popular school in various sports. The question was: “To best apply his athletic skill while gaining an education, what college or university would you send your son to, or what school would you recommend to a boy who is adept at football, basketball, baseball, track, and swimming?”
The Irish received 38.9 percent of the football votes with the University of Minnesota second with 12.1 percent, and Michigan third with 7.4 percent. Southern California and Ohio State were the only other schools that received any concentrated total. . . . With an all time record of 345 victories and 75 defeats plus 27 ties with four national titles and six Western Championships, “Notre Dame has become the public’s alma mater,” declared one of the voters. The Notre Dame followers did not give credit to any one coach, but, of course, there were mentions of Rockne, the Four Horsemen and other great stars of the past. But ballot after ballot listed the Irish spirit; the school’s tradition and emphasis on the gridiron sport. The theme was, says the Esquire Sports Poll, that at a school like Notre Dame there will be Angelo Bertelli’s every year . . . and winners.
This 'n That... Here 'n' There
Frank Szymanski, aftei* participating in two league games as a defensive center for the Detroit Lions, opines that the pro game isn’t the least bit comparable to the college version when it comes to esprit de corps, initiative, and team play. He relates that at one time during the Lions-Packard game, a teammate returned to the huddle after muffing a forward pass and had nothing to say in defense of his error than, “Rats, there goes that bonus!” This attitude, Frank adds, can be attributed to the majority of “play for pay” gridders. . . .
. . . John Dee, returning letterman
who scored 251 points during the 194445 basketball season, is planning to enter law school next semester. The diminutive forward does not aspire to become a practicing barrister, but rather believes a law degree will facilitate possibilities for a coaching position after his graduation. . . . Phil Colella, “Zip” Zehler, John Agnone, and Emil Slovak, all Irish backfield men, scored a touchdown apiece in their very first collegiate football game. Colella gained added distinction by dashing for 70-odd yards, and paydirt, in the first minute on the first play from scrimmage of the first Irish football contest of 1945. . . . Local newspapers have continually insisted that Dick Cronin, varsity right end, is a senior pre-med, and that he had declined from going out for the team for three years. Truth of the matter is that the Oak Park gridster didn’t get out of high school till ’44 and is at present a first semester junior.
INTRODUCING...
By John Gunther
PHU COLELLA
The first six points of the 1945 Notre Dame football season were scored by Phil Colella on a 76-yard run against Illinois. Phil, the left halfback on the Irish eleven, comes to Notre Dame from Rochester High School in Rochester, Pa. The smallest and fastest man in the starting backfield, Phil stands 5' 9" and weighs 170 pounds. This 20-year-old ex-Navy man won four battlestars while on duty in the Pacific, and during his tour of duty as a gunners-mate he had three ships shot out from under him. Phil’s campus residence is on the third floor of Sorin, and he is considered one of the best dressed men of the Sorin clan.
While in high school Phil starred in both basketball and football. As a high school football player, Phil was on the varsity for four years and was on the all-state first team for two years. His greatest thrill in high school sports was, when he scored four touchdowns against Sheridan High School, his team’s greatest rival; up until that night Sheridan had been undefeated in nine games. '
Phil is an AB student with a major in Phy Ed; he hopes some day to coach high school football. The greatest alltime athlete in Phil’s opinion is the immortal Nile Kinnick, and his favorite sport is football. He likes to spend his spare time on the ballroom floor, and his ideas about really good food are centered in a large plate of spaghetti.
Twenty seven
Just .Arrived
White "T" Shirts
79c
A huge shipment is here. Hundreds of fellows are awaiting this news. We have them in small, medium and large sizes.
IRISH BASKETEERS
(Continued from page 25) still has an ace in the hole who so far is known only as Riley, a 6' 9" Decatur, Ill., boy who is entering school in November. Available this season, too, wil] be Leo Murphy, Johnny Mullen, Andy So-bek, and Norm Mirrington—all capable reserves of last year and who looked impressive in the early workouts. Further strength to augment this year’s team is the abundance of basketball ability found in these newcomers, most of whom are freshmen who show great promise. They are: Jim Whalen, Tom O’Keefe, Ralph Hinger, George Ryan, Dick Kluck, Dave Wassmer, Dan Gatens, “Chuck” Hoban, and Fred Friend of the civilians; and Harry Peterson, Don Corbitt, and Bob Lindsey of the Navy unit. Student manager this season is Ed Rodgers.
A tentative schedule has been ‘ drawn up but still needs approval by the University Board of Athletics, and therefore is subject to possible changes. So far a few things are definitely known. The season will be launched on Dec. 8 against Camp Atterbury. From out of the ranks of the Big Nine, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and intrastate rival Purdue will be met. The great quintet of Kentucky, Marquette, and Great Lakes have been scheduled as a home-and-home game series with DePaul, runners-up last winter in the N.C.A.A. tournament. The traditional intersectional game with New York University is still pending. As soon as the complete schedule is available it will appear in an early issue of the Scholastic.
M TM CORNER.... ttKNIMN ( MSMIHM
Bishop Crowley, Notre Dome Mon, Dies in India
The Most Reverend Timothy John Crowley, C.S.C., D. D., bishop of the diocese of Dacca, India, and a Holy Cross missionary in Bengal since 1907, died on October 2 in his residence there.
Bishop Crowley was named coadjutor to the Bishop of Dacca, on January 26, 1927, and was consecrated bishop May 1, 1927, in Dacca by Bishop Legrand. His titular see was Cyrene. He succeeded to the see of Dacca on November 11, 1929. After that Bishop Crowley headed the Holy Cross missionaries in India, caring for some 30,000 Catholics scattered in twenty mission stations.
He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1902 and began his missionary career in 1907. The bishop was long recognized as an excellent administrator. He returned to Notre Dame in 1920 to attend a general chapter meeting on the campus and later was appointed superior of the missionaries. His last visit to Notre Dame was in 1938.
Twenty eight
New Student Officers To Take Over RO Unit
With graduation claiming practically the entire roster of the NROTC student officers, Commander George Hutchison announced the new student officers who will assume command the 4th of November.
IT'S ADLER'S for ARROWS
JWa/x. Adl&t Cg.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
Clyde Goebel
Clyde “Boats” Goebel has been appointed regimental commander. “Boats” has been in the navy for seven years. His pre-war service consisted of convoy duty in the North Atlantic. When war broke out he was transferred to the S'outh Pacific where he served aboard an LST. While on this tour of duty he participated in the battle of the Solomons and New Guinea. “Boats” reported at Notre Dame in July, 1944.
R. L. Vader and C. J. Jablonski were appointed as battalion commanders. D. M. Trueblood is the regimental subcommander and C. D. O’Malley is the regimental adjutant. The battalion subcommanders are G. L. DeLoach and C. A. Morrow.
The following named men are company commanders: P. Gaydos, R. Zaw-locki, C. V. Jensen, A. J. Kaiser, M. A. Dranchak, J. J. Mingo, D. J. Seifert and M. L. Clark. A. D. Van Stavern is the regimental commissary officer.
These men have been appointed platoon commanders: G. R. Muller, C. M. Holmes, V. A. Dolan, C. A. Hewett, J. A. Fellman, 0. P. Doyle, J. A. Basil and G. F. Stark.
What’s a zyzzle to an Arrow
Zyzzle is the last word in the dictionary. It means: to make a spluttering sound.
Arrow Sports Shirts are the last word in comfort. (Catch on?) That’s because they’re comfortable, colorful, and long-lasting.
So, brethren, no need to zyzzle in an uncomfortable shirt! Get
your Arrow Sports Shirts at your nearest dealer. (If be doesn’t have the one you want, try him again.)
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR e HANDKERCHIEFS o SPORTS SHIRTS
Twenty nine
Welcoming Unwelcome Guests
Four Marines were playing bridge on Guadalcanal, when suddenly a friendly native broke in shouting, “The Japs are trying to land a party of 300 men on the beach!”
The four Marines looked at each other inquiringly until finally one said, “All right, all right, I’ll go. I’m dummy this hand any way!”
Oh ! ! !
“Go to Father,” she said, when I asked her to wed,
For she knew that I knew that her father was dead,
And she knew that I knew what a life he had led,
So she knew that I knew what she meant when she said,
“Go to Father.”—Villanovan
Those Lucky People
It was reported in the University Daily Kansan that “for the first time since before the war, the physical education requirement for both men and women has been dropped.”
“The only reason given by the College for the dropping of the requirement is that, with the war over, ‘it is no longer necessary’.”
—★—
Vassar Girls Have It Tough
The following Automobile Regulations were published in the Vassar Miscellany News:
1.	Students may not have cars at Vassar, in Poughkeepsie, or in the vicinity.
2.	A student may not drive a car unless accompanied by its owner.
3.	Permission for the use of a car in case of emergency may be granted by the Warden.
4.	Cars may not be crowded beyond stated capacity; if they are overcrowded they will be stopped on campus at any time.
Those girls really have something to cry about. Don’t you think so, boys?
Columnist's Pet Peeve
It’s quite a job to think up jokes
’ But we go on undaunted,
The ones you want we cannot print—
The ones we print aren’t wanted.
—Villanovan
Modern Arithmetic
He was teaching her arithmetic,
He said it was his mission,
He kissed her twice,
He told her: “That’s addition!”
Thirty
He safely adds a kiss with a fact For silent satisfaction, She swiftly gave him back a kiss And said, “That is subtraction.” He kissed her and she kissed him Without any explanation, They both together smiled and said, “Now that is multiplication.” Her dad appeared upon the scene, He acted without decision, He kicked the sofa two blocks away And said, “That is division.”
—The Technique
Among your memories of Notre ‘ Dame will be an occasional thought of the times you met the gang at—
« « « "GEORGES"
You will be very well dressed in Adler-Rochester Clothing—or Parker-Winterrowd Custom Tailored Clothing
PARKER - WINTERROWD
1l5'/z N. Main Street Appointment by phone—3-6318
Navy Officers Transfer
Due to the closing of the midshipman school and the discharging of 11 of the officers now on the NROTC staff, the following midshipman officers will transfer to the roster* of the NROTC unit at the beginning of the next term: Lt. D. H. Doub, Lt. J. R. Dodson Jr., Lt. C. R. Tomlin, Lt. M. L. Silberstein, Lt. (j g) W. H. Lemm Jr., Lt. (jg) J. R. Winship, Lt. (jg) G. F. Eberhart, Lt. (jg) R. T. May and Ensign H. H. Kehrl.
NOTRE DAME GRADUATES
Navy Camera Club Ends
Summer With Exhibit
The V-12-NR0TC Camera Club snapped the shutter on the summer term by sponsoring a photographic exhibit. Entries submitted were confined to views on the campus. The photos entered in the contest are now on display in the Notre Dame Library. First prize was awarded to Jerome Seger, Alumni Hall NROTC for his entry of the “Dome” which appears on the cover of this issue of the Scholastic. Honorable mentions for the contest were awarded to J - Smee-link, NROTC; D. White, V-12, and D. Hayes, NROTC.
Membership in the club was open to all ranks of photographers, from advanced amateur to the beginner. Its main objective was to aid in enhancing the principles of composition in photography plus a sound technique for work in the club’s well-equipped darkroom.
One of the projects undertaken by the Camera Club was to cover the picture assignments of the Irish Pennant, an ROTC publication. Assignments were given to the various members in order that they might gain experience in the field of press photography.
155 Ro's Transfer Here
One hundred fifty-five men now enrolled in the V-12 curriculum at Bowling Green University, Bald win-Wallace College, Gustavus Adolphus College, and Western Michigan College will report at Notre Dame, November 1, to commence their NROTC training.
Thirty men will report from Bowling Green, 60 from Baldwin-Wallace, 30 from Gustavus Adolphus, and 35 from Western Michigan. With the exception of one man the trainees have completed four terms of college instruction.
RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING KEEP GENERAL ELECTRIC YEARS AHEAD
A NEW "HOUSE Of MAGIC" FOR POSTWAR AMERICA
Crowded in its present quarters, the G-E Research Laboratory will soon move to a more spacious location. Five miles east of Schenectady, New York, is a site that offers special advantages for a “House of Magic” of the future. On a rocky diff overlooking the Mohawk River, it is particularly adaptable to work with radar, television, high-frequency, jet engines, and x-ray.
A staff of 800—expanding the present 550—will carry on research in a laboratory built on a 219-acre lot.
Th* batt invastmant in tha warM i> in this country’* future. Kaap all tha Band* you Bay.
GENERAL ELECTRIC 9S3-I06T-ZU
Since its birth the G-E Research Laboratory has contributed much to better living, not only through scientific achievement, but through increased efficiency, as in the case of the modern incandescent lamp.
And in the future G.E. will continue and expand the work it has begun. In the words of Dr. Coolidge, former laboratory director, “A research laboratory is essentially a group of - men ... engaged in extending the frontiers of knowledge.” General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
Thirty one
Football Team Will
Appear in Movie Short
Grantland Rice, originator of the famed title affixed to the Four Horsemen of Irish grid fame, was a campus visitor during the first two weeks of October. Accompanying the venerable sports columnist and movie producer were technicians and camera crews from Paramount Studios, Hollywood, Calif. Rice and his retinue were accumulating material for his newest Grantland Rice Sportlights’ movie short, which is to be entitled Running the Team.
This newest sports epic is to be composed of various scenes depicting the campus life, classroom atmosphere, football practice and other extra-curricular activities engaged in by the members of the 1945 Irish grid team. Pictures of the team members were taken in the dining hall, participating in Father Brennan’s Logic class, strolling about the campus, and, of course, scrimmaging on Cartier Field.
The purpose of Running the Team is to portray to the American public a general idea of how football teams representing the University of Notre Dame are produced and managed. No individual football player was spotlighted, but rather the team was represented as a unit typical of the many teams which have gained fame for the University, and which have amassed more followers than any other college in the country.
Running the Team is now in the process of production at Paramount Studios in Hollywood. Mr. Rice will direct its development and expects to have it ready for local theatres sometime in November.
<nntetoortffjs
Ties ... As You Like 'Em
Choose your favorite patterns in your favorite tie ... styled by your favorite maker.
1.00 to 3.50
Men's Shop . . . Main Floor
NROTC Officers to
Receive Discharge
The navy’s current point-system discharge plan will enable practically the entire roster of officers now directing and instructing the members of the NROTC unit at Notre Dame to don civilian clothes and pursue their peacetime activities once again. As yet the dates of their official discharges have not been determined. They will be detached from this unit and will proceed to training centers which have the necessary facilities available for the discharge of naval personnel.
Commander R. T. McDaniel was the first to leave; he was detached September 24. Lt. R. R. Frailey will be detached October 20. Two days later Lt. Holde-man will follow. The detachmen date of the following officers is the 24th of October: Commander Meehan, Lt. Commander Van De Carr, Lt. Commander C. R. Ruark, Lt. M. J. Hansberry, Lt. D. C. Hornig, and Lt. J. P. Ryder.
Thirty two
We cordially invite
Notre Dame men and their guests to dine
at the
PkiladelfM&
LUNCHEONS DINNERS
116 N. Michigan Street
best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle front and camp. Combat stories — G. I. humor and cartoons — soldier action photographed and soldier art — letters from "Mail Call" — soldier verse — highlights from "What's Your Problem."
FOR YOUR READING ENJOYMENT— “YANK MAGAZINE-
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE 127 W. Washington St.
"In the J. M. S. Building"
AFTER THE BALL IS OVER
The week-end we’ve all been looking forward to so impatiently has long since passed and only the memories of three wonderful days remain.
The lights were low, the music was sweet, so Jim Aherne kissed his girl on the cheek when she wasn’t looking, She refused to look at him for the rest of the evening. (This is a little deep, so ponder over it for a few minutes.)
Stan Idzerda, after stepping on his date’s formal, said to her, “Pardon my dancing. I’m a little stiff from marching.”
She very sweetly replied, “That’s perfectly all right. I don’t care where you’re from.”
Warne Schaap found a solution to the transportation problem. He rented a bicycle for two for the whole week-end. Leave it up to Warne!
Jerry “The Lover” Schroering has been crying in his beer for the last three weeks, because a pretty little colleen from Kentucky refused to accept his class ring. Jerry claims that women just don’t know a good thing when they see one.
All in all, the week-end went over big. Orchids to the men on the various committees who helped make our Naval Ball the huge success that it was; a green banana to the party or parties responsible for the mix-up concerning the gardenia corsages.
"INVITATION TO MURDER" or
"WHY MY ROOM MATE WAS ABSENT FROM 0654 MUSTER"
“Say, roomie, give me some stationery.”
“Can I use your pen?”
“Yeah.”
“How about an envelope?”
“Okay.”
“Going by the post office?”
“Yup.”
“Wait till I finish this letter?” •
“Uh-huh.”
“By the way, what’s your girl’s address?”
Nedi
J.&U
MUSTER ANNOUNCEMENTS
—“Liberty uniforms will be khakis, grays, or blues, with overseas caps or dress hats with or without raincovers, or swabbie whites or blues with white hats.”
—“All men eligible for discharges under the Navy’s present point system will muster in the telephone booth in Washington Hall immediately.”
Skoti
F W. L. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.. BROCKTON 15. MASS. 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
—“All optimistic midshipmen and first classmen with civilian clothes for sale should see the pre-meds in Dillon.”
—“Trainees who have not done so will do so immediately or disciplinary action will follow.”
♦
CORN ON THE COB
Jack Hasten: “How about lending me a nickel? I want to call up one of my friends.”
Second classmen: “Here’s a dime. Go call all of your friends.”
❖
Prof (very irritated) : “A fool can ask more questions than a wise man can answer.”
George Katterman: “Yeah, no wondei* we all flunk exams.”
Thirty three
At the
Notre Dame
Bookstore
A PLASTIC CONTAINER for those papers or pictures you want to keep
Waterproof— Non-Soiling— Items Sealed in Permanently
NOTRE DAME SCAPULAR MEDALS
With chain — $ 1.95
STATIONERY
with a Personal Touch
ECONOMIC ROUND
TABLE ACTIVITIES
At a regular meeting on September 27, the Economic Round Table met to select officers for the ’45-’46 winter semester. The retiring officers, Robert Kasper, president, and Charles Bartlett, secretary-treasurer, were succeeded in these offices by Paul Regan and Patrick Nolan.
The summer semester activities were highlighted by talks delivered before the group by two University faculty members. The International law underlying “Military Occupation of Japan” was outlined by Professor’ Paul Bartholomew, Ph.D., Department of Politics. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., Department of Philosophy, spoke with deep personal interest on the subject of “Co-operatives.” Other subjects of domestic and international moment were presented in weekly talks by student members for discussion and analysis.
NOTRE DAME SINGERS
MAKE CONCERT TRIP
On Saturday, October 6, the Notre Dame Glee Club set out on its first trip since the end of the war. In a special bus, the group traveled first to Rosary College in River Forest, Illinois, just outside Chicago, to present a program. The audience was most enthusiastic, applauding ceaselessly and demanding several encores. Before the concert, the guests were entertained by the young ladies of the college. The stay at Rosary was enjoyed by the audience and by each and every member of the Glee Club.
The group then journeyed to Aurora, Ill. The next morning, the newspapers were proclaiming that “one of the outstanding organizations of its kind in the country,” the Notre Dame Glee Club, had arrived in town and would give a concert that same Sunday night in the East High School auditorium. At curtain time, a capacity audience of about twelve hundred had assembled. The concert went well and was received in a most appreciative manner.
Three new numbers were added to the original concert program as sung in Washington Hall last month, namely: High Barbary, Hall; Quartette from Rigoletto, Verdi-Botsford; and I Love a Parade. These, added to the other numbers, made up a program that if heard, had to be enjoyed.
At a very early hour Monday morning, a bus rolled onto the campus. Out of it came the members of the Glee Club, tired, hut happy, after a very successful
Traditionally
The place where Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
CONGRATULATIONS!
to the
Notre Dame Graduates
May every success be yours in coming years.
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
Always a wide selection of attractive gifts.
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years"_$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell. C.S.C___$2.50
THE SET —$5.00
•
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
Thirty four
concert trip, the first for the majority of the men.
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, said he hopes that this trip marked the renewal of the Glee Club’s peacetime activities, which in former years included many extensive concert tours and trips.
Middies Plan Graduation
In two short weeks 950 midshipmen now in training at Notre Dame will assume the responsibilities of ensigns in the United States Navy. These men will be the last class of midshipmen to be graduated from the University training station.
Baccalaureate services will be held in the drill hall October 28, at 9:45 a. m. The speaker will be a naval chaplain from,the training center' at Great Lakes, Ill. The graduation ceremony is November 2 at 11:00 a. m. in the drill hall.
The midshipmen’s final social fling will be the graduation ball. As yet the scene of the ball has not been agreed upon. The music will be furnished by Myron Walz.
announced. Because of its wise and far-reaching terms, it is also one of the most pleasing and acceptable gifts.
“The new Peter C. Reilly Foundation affords marvelous opportunities for gifted young students of chemistry here at Notre Dame and in other American universities who want to go on for advanced work.
“A student of De LaSalle Academy of Providence, R. I., Mr. Reilly is a product of Catholic education and of the American system of free enterprise, and exemplifies in his life certain important characteristics of the true scientist. Through initiative, unswerving honesty of purpose, and intelligent hard work, he himself rose to success, and with true
Notre Dame Jackets	Golf Clubs
Sweat Shirts	Hand Balls
Pennants	. and Gloves
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax	Phone 3-3702
vision he has provided important aid and incentive to young chemists of merit in this day and for years to come. The perpetual memorial he has established at Notre Dame is intended to produce great chemists, men of firm character and ingenious learning, who will advance the science itself and contribute wisely and richly torthe society in which they must play a leading part.”
Mr. Reilly was awarded an honorary LL.D. degree by Notre Dame in 1939. Among the inventions developed by him in the chemical field is a process for the complete distillation of tar. He is widely known in Indiana not only for his business affiliations and devoted interest in chemistry, but also for his efforts in the field of medicine.
REILLY GIVES $1,000,000
(Continued from page 19)
Reilly’s hope that his gift will enable Notre Dame to take its place among the leaders of the world in chemistry.
In making the contribution, Mr. Reilly stated: “I make this contribution to Notre Dame because of the University’s announced determination to continue its aggressive advances in the field of chemistry, and because it seems clear to me that the science of chemistry is to play an ever more dominant role in the progress of our civilization.
“The University’s scientific accomplishments in chemical research under men like Father Nieuwland have already been internationally acclaimed and I think that, through this newly-organized, progressive effort, Notre Dame’s work in chemistry may well move ahead of that produced in the leading institutions of Europe.”
In accepting the gift in the name of the University, Father O’Donnell made the following statement: “The benefaction of Mr. Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis, for eleven years an esteemed member of our Associated Board of Lay Trustees, is the largest single gift that the University of Notre Dame has ever
THE QUARTER
HITS THE LINE-1903
In that year, for the first time in college anm..., the quarter could run with the ball snapped direct from center. Brains and speed succeeded crude mass play, and the modern game began. It was a popular innovation. Like Railway Express round-trip service for college laundry and baggage, the new method once tried out became nation-wide standard practice. Make a standard practice, too, of packing and wrapping securely, -addressing clearly and starting early whatever you have to express. It will help all concerned.
NATION-WIDE EAll-AIK SERVICE
Thirty five-
ADD CANDIDATES FOR THE GALLOWS
ANOTHER POEM, FELLAS
Pass is Pass, and Flunk is Flunk And never the twain shall meet, Till the failing son stands face to face At Dad’s great judgment seat.
—We apologize, Mr. Kipling
AND ANOTHER
Slippery ice—very thin
Pretty girl—tumbled in Saw a fellow—on the bank Gave a shriek—then she sank Boy on hand—heard her shout Jumped right in—pulled her out Now he’s hers—very nice
But she had—to break the ice.
. —Hooked from The Pelican
By Ed Caso and Joe Piedmont
CAMPUS QUIPS
Greg Franz, thinking of times soon to be had in Ventura (26 miles of paved streets), is wondering whether to spend his money on girls or waste it foolishly. . . . Jack Dwyer sighed with relief when Frank Tyschen, after three months, treated himself to a haircut because now Jack will be able to see the blackboard which had been cut off from view by Frank’s hairy Neanderthel skull. . . . Bob McShane has been threatening the freedom of the press because of several remarks about his large feet in the last issue. . . . Who is the mysterious Rosemary who sent Howie Murphy four letters in one day? . . . When Bill Duffy was asked if there were any humorists in his class, he replied, “No, they’re all Engineering students.” . . . Frank Man-cino, in a speech of introduction presented Ulysses Grant, and wondered why everyone was laughing.
The fellows who perfected the idea of putting lighter’ fluid under the door and lighting it, thereby causing enough smoke and flame to scare even John “The Fearless” Poklemba. . . . The guy who opens the bathroom windows when you’re taking a shower. . . . The unscrupulous character who borrows your program during the football game and forgets to return it.
Shakespeare once said,“All’s well that ends well,” but we won’t end well any way, so here’s one last story—
A woman sued the hospital after her husband’s operation. She brought them into court on a charge of “opening her male.”	-
N. B. FROSH
This column is a freshman mouthpiece. Any suggestions, or contributions —Notice that we are leaving out complaints—should be sent to 309 Zahm Hall.
Thirty six
New Executive Officer for NROTC Has Had Colorful and Exciting Career In Navy
“Newly commissioned ensigns upon reporting to the fleet will be proud and thankful for their training here at Notre Dame.” These are the words of Com-
Commander George Hutchison
comb. His latest assignment was that of executive officer ’ of the midshipman school here at Notre Dame.
The excellence of the Commander’s service to the Navy is attested by the awards, citations, and ribons he possesses. Outstanding among his awards is the double presentation of the Bronze Star. The first award of this medal was
Give Your Shirt A FALL FLASH
OF COLOR ... with a Gay, New
WEMBLEY TIE
Quality ties to tie so easily in a flattering knot. Rayons, and wool-rayons in large and small patterns, plaids, stripes.
1.00
MEN'S DEPT.—Street Floor
for the sinking of a German submarine in the Mediterannean and the second for participation in the invasion of southern France. In addition he wears
the Pacific ribbon with one star, the star for the sinking of a Japanese submarine; the European ribbon with two stars, one for sinking the German submarine and the other for the invasion of southern France; the American Theater ribbon for his four months of duty under Admiral Ingram convoying ships between Trinidad and Recife; and the pre-Pearl Harbor ribbon. (Turn to next page)
mander George Hutchison, the newly appointed executive officer of the NROTC unit. The Commander assumed his new duties September 24, succeeding Commander Ralph T. McDaniel.
Since his graduation from Annapolis in June, 1935, the Commander has led a colorful, exciting life and has seen action in practically every theater- of operations. The “new exec” is a veteran of nine years of sea duty and his assignments have included every post from division officer to commanding officer. His first assignment was that of division officer aboard the gallant old carrier Lexington. Following that he was the communication watch officer on the Staff Commander Aircraft Battle Force. After that tour of duty was completed ha served on the destroyers Gansevoort and Flusser as engineering officer. He was later transferred to the destroyer Fletcher where he assumed the post of executive officer. At the outbreak of World War II Commander Hutchison was placed in charge of the four stacker John D. Edwards and following this was the commanding officer of the USS Ma-
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
Thirty seven
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
CtezLct (j&ure£eM BLOCK BROS. CORNER MICHIGAN ^WASHINGTON
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
Commander Hutchison is affable and an interesting speaker. He is vitally interested in the trainees and their problems. Commenting on his new post the Commander said, “I am looking forward to spending a year with the NROTC unit here at Notre Dame. I expect it to be one of my most pleasant and profitable tours of duty.” The Commander further stated, “My philosophy at sea was that a taut ship was a happy ship; I intend to endoctrinate the trainees here to that same philosophy.”
While stationed here at Notre Dame the Commander is residing with his family in South Bend at 415 ???? Madison Street. One of his greatest sources of pride are his three children—Sandra, who is seven; Judy, six, and George, two. At the present time Sandra and Judy are attending St. Mary’s in South Bend.
Frank O'Malley Speaks At Wranglers Banquet
The summer banquet of the Notre Dame Wranglers was held in the Hotel Hoffman on Thursday evening, October 4, and honored the men of the club who are graduating at the end of this term. Mr. Frank O’Malley, moderator of the club and professor of English at the University, addressed the gathering after the dinner.
Norbert Geier, club president, presented James Cassidy as the toastmaster of the evening, who in turn presented the moderator. Mr. O’Malley addressed his remarks mainly to the six men who are leaving Notre Dame at the end of this term: David Armstrong, Thomas Devine, Norbert Geier, James Cassidy, Stanley Idzerda and John Phipps. He spoke about a “reversal of human values,” pointing out a deplorable popular accent on the attitude of viewing life through the technological, physical and economic approach..
After Mr. O’Malley’s talk, the toastmaster presented the departing members of the club. All spoke briefly, and the affair carried on into the evening with much informal chatting.
Interviews for membership in the Wranglers were held Monday, October 1, and eight students were accepted. Navy students accepted were Herbert E. Harris, Merit Hoagland, and Joe Feranadez; civilian students entering the club are, James W. Burns, Patrick O’Meara, John Granville, Bernard Bedard and James Greene.
At the meeting of September 25, Luis Beltrineno was elected to the presidency of the Wranglers. Beltrineno, a native of Guatemala, Central America, is in the Graduate school studying law.
THE STAMP SHOP
Everything for the STAMP COLLECTOR
501 Pythian Bldg.
METHOD MEN'S SHOP
{■JaaiaaaaaataiaaaatiaaiataaiiaaataiaaaaaaaiiiiaaiiitiaaaiaiaaaaaianiiaaaiiiaiiQ
E • Greeting Cards	=
:	• Artists’ Supplies	=
=	• Picture Framing j
I	I. W. Lower Co. j
I	DECORATORS	e
E 128 North Michigan Street E
QiaaaaaaatiaaaaaaaaattaaaaaitiiaaaaaaiaiataiaaaaaiiaaataiiiaitaaaaiiiiiiaiataaQ
For leather gifts and luggage needs
visit
Hans/^Rintzsch
o/uqqaqc Shep
138 N. Michigan Street
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Thirty eight
The Review of Politics
Is Out Again This Month
The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the History Department, announced last week that the October issue of The Review of Politics will soon be published. The outstanding article in this issue is by Prof. Aaron I. Abell, of the University faculty. Entitled “Reception of Leo XIII’s Labor Encyclical in America,” it defends the laboring classes and calls for a living wage to be paid to them. In his article, Prof. Abell discusses the reaction to the encyclical Rerum Novarum in this country, and also the attitude of both clergy and laity toward labor unions. He points out how the encyclical fostered the movement abong Catholics towards finding the solution to modern labor problems. Professor Abell pays special tribute to the late Monsignor John A. Ryan, and to Father Peter E. Dietz for their leadership in advocating labor reform.
In other noteworthy and timely articles, Rev. Peter Easten Dunn writes on “The Church and State in Argentine,” and Father L. H. Tibesar of Maryknoll, sets forth an interesting account of the education of the Japanese Emperor in “Hirohito—Man, Emperor, Divinity.” Likewise of great interest to readers is the article which deals with foreign policy of Prime Minister Clement Atlee and his cabinet—“Britain and the World,” written by Edward A. Shils of the University of Chicago. The rest of the issue includes “Treitschke—National Prophet,” by Hans Kohn, and “Imperialism, Nationalism, and Chauvinism,” by Hannah Arendt.
The Revieiv will be placed on sale for fifty cents in the Notre Dame bookstore.
“Old Ironsides ”
stood up throughout the war
A.B. Faculty Men Return;
Louis Budenz Joins Staff
Four • men in the Arts and Letters college will return to the faculty staff in November for the winter" semester. The four professors are: Thomas P. Madden in English, John" P. Turley in Latin, Devere T. Plunkett in History, and Stanley S. Sessler in Art.
The University last week announced the addition of Louis F. Budenz to the Department of Economics teaching staff. Budenz has returned to the faith of the Catholic Church. While out of the church he had been active in the Communist Party and was made managing editor of its newspaper, The Daily Worker.
LIKE the famous old ship, your telephone has come through the war with colors flying.
What other aid to modern l.ving has been so dependable under all conditions and so free from mechanical troubles ?
During the war years, when so little new telephone apparatus could be made for the home front, even equipment made many years ago by Western Electric has served you faithfully and has been a national asset in time of war. Quality shows best when the going is tough.
★ ★ ★
Western Electric, supply unit of the Bell System, is now tackling its biggest peacetime job. Furnishing materials and equipment to meet the System’s immediate needs—then to carry out the System’s $2,000,000,-000 post-war construction program—promises record peace-time production and a level of employment higher than in the years just before the war.
W Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM.
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
Thirty nine
MILDER .. . BETTER -TASTING . . . COOLER
Yes, when you remember your A B C’s of smoking pleasure you remember the three important benefits that Chesterfield’s Right Combination . . .World’s Best Tobaccos M gives you. Here they are: >4—ALWAYS MILDER, B—BETTER TASTE and C-COOLER SMOKING.
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Micas Tceacco Co.
) Chesterfield^
RIGHT COMB/AMT/ON • WORLDS BEST TOBACCOS